• Find out how men's swimming did this 
• 1957 alum and TV talk-show pioneer Phil 
Tuesday

weekend in their showdown with the defend­
Donahue weighs in on the non-discrimination clause 
ing national champion Stanford Cardinal. 
debate. 
OCTOBER6, 

Sports • 17 
Viewpoint • 13 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 32 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
SMC celebrates Pride Day 

The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 
Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred (left) at her inauguration one year ago. 
One year after first event, a new pride day 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Today the women of Saint Mary's will pause to reflect, celebrate, and honor tradition on a day reserved for thn spirit of pride. 
Exactly one year after Marilou Eldn~d was inaugurall~d as the presi­dnnt of the Collnge, students, faculty and administrators will commemorate the first annual Saint Mary's Pride Day. 
"It is a day to celebrate who we are and what we represent as an institu­tion," Eldred said. "It r-I''!'IJ'!'J'~I'P'!~h 
...."1 ::W•llll:-'1.•11
is exciting for me to 
think about one year 

• More infor­ago ltodayl and all 
mation on 
that has been accom­

SMC Pride
plished in this time. It 

Day.
makes me very proud 
p.6

and, at the same time, very humble." '-------'---' Events will reach a climax at 3:15 
p.m., when Eldred addresses the College community at the Le Mans courtyard. Immediately afterward an 
anrial photograph will be taken of stu­dents and faculty assembled in the form of a French cross, the logo of Saint Mary's. 
The commemoration, planned by 
see DAY I page 6 
ND disabilities manual used as a model nationwide 
Hy LAURA ROMPF 
News Writer 
It's just ofT the presses. and already a Notre Dame hand­book is becoming a model for other sdwols. 
The recently published "Students With Disabilities: Building a Partnership in Equal /\ccess to Learning" is slat11d to be used as a proto­type for similar guidebooks at several other colleges. 
"Other universities have ordered the handbook and will eithnr use ours or re-pub­lish their own with ours as a guid11," said Joellen Conrardy, 
Eldred works to connect with alumnae 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
To some people in the Saint Mary's community, the inauguration of Marilou Eldred as president of the College symbolized more than her being the first laywoman presi­dent of the College -it symbolized what has become a revival of pride in Saint Mary's and a leader who is the embodiment of a Saint Mary's woman. 
Since her inauguration, Eldred has traveled across the country to spnak to alumnan groups, explain where Saint Mary's is heading and, most importantly, listen to the con­cerns, opinions and hopes of the alumnae for. the direction they would like to sen the College take in the 21st century. 
Barb Henry, director of Alumnae Relations at Saint Mary's, sees first hand the benefits of Eldred's pride in the College after her having been here only a year. 
Eldred has made it her commit­ment to meet alumnae and be on campus for key events such as reunions, in addition to meeting alumnae by traveling throughout the U.S., according to Henry. 
"She [Eldred) really believes that in order for her to be successful as president of Saint Mary's and for the College to continue to be suc­cessful, she has to know the alum­nae and take time to listen to them," she said. 
Despite her current successes, Eldred's presidency began amidst difliculty; there was no transition period for Eldred to ease into the ol'fice. She hit the ground running after her inauguration -visiting 11 alumnae dubs in one year, ranging 
see ELDRED/ page 6 

Gagnon advises students to stay aware of theft 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Writer 
Russell "Cappy" Gagnon, coordinator of stu­dent security workers. is pleading for the stu­dents' help in preventing theft on campus. 
The campus crime rate is not high and has not risen recently, according to Gagnon, but that does not mean students are immune. Gagnon said Notre Dame's status as a safe campus can occasionally lull students into forgetting that crime still dm1s occur here. 
"[Students! have a tendency to be very trust­

'OUR GOAL IS TO CRE­
ATE A VERY PLE­SANT ENVIRONMENT WITH NICE AMBIANCE AND A GREAT MEASURE OF SAFE­
TY.' 
RUSSHLL GAGNON 

COORDINATOR OF STUDENT SECUR/1Y WORKERS 
ing," said Gagnon, adding that students feel so comfortable on campus that they believe theft cannot happen to them. 
This can lead to Notre Dame students not hav­ing a "fully developed understanding of the pit­falls of life," he said. 
"[Our goal is to create I a very pleasant envi­ronment with a nice ambiance and a great mea­sure of safety, but you guys need to help us with greater awareness," said Gagnon. 
The majority of on-campus theft is related to book bags, laptop computers and bicycles, according to Gagnon. Most of these thefts are seasonal -book theft, for instance, tends to peak right before fall break, before spring break and toward the end of the year, he said. 
"A walk through the library is like Disneyland Ito someone committing theft!," said Gagnon. 
He stressed the need for student awareness when leaving possessions unattended. Theft most often occurs when students aro studying in the library study carrels and leave to go to the bathroom or to get a book; their things are ollen 
see SECURITY I page 4 

program coordinator for the "Pueblo Community College Notre Dame book as a Kaneb Center for teaching is in the process of revising resource," he said. "We hope 
and learning. 
Other universities that have ordered the hand­book include Ohio State, Dayton, University of Massachusetts, Clemson, Illinois State and Hutgers. 
The handbook will serve many different pur­poses for these institu­tions. 
"I plan to use it as a resource material for stu­
'IPLAN TO USE IT AS A RESOURCE MATE­RIAL FOR STUDENTS IN AN INTRODUC­TION TO EDUCATION CLASS.' 
dents in an introduction to education class," said Erskine Dottin of Florida International University. in Miami, Fla. 
ERSKINE DOJTIN FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY 
our disabilities handbook," well. 
to complete our revised handbook by the Spring 1999 semester, and we will credit the University of Notre Dame for its contribution." 
Not only are other universities using the handbook, but many other companies and 
organizations plan to make use of it, as The Microsoft 
said Dennis Johnson of PCC in Corporation in Redmond, Pueblo, Colo. Wash., the Lincoln Park Zoo "I received a copy of the in Chicago, and Notre Dame 
High School in Wilmettn, Ill., have all placed orders. 
There arc several reasons why others are using Notre Dame's handbook as an exam­ple. 
"I think that the handbook is quite comprehensive," said Johnson. "In addition, I am impressed with the institu­tional commitment that is obvious through the inelusion of letters from the University administrators. 
"Our previous handbook only included a letter from our disabilities specialist. Congratulations on an excel­lent publication," he said. 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Johnny Dangerously 
A couple weeks ago, I talked with my friend 
during lunch at South Dining Hall. This partic­
ular friend I call "Johnny Dangerously" -but 
some people might know him better as "Sick 
Johnny." 

While we were eating, C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
the subject of self-Illustrations Editor 
defense came up. I said 
that I would most likely have to rely on my 
martial art skills in most types of confronta­
tions. We both knew that Johnny's experience 
in hand-to-hand combat was not as extensive, 
so I asked what he would do for self-defense. 
"My first-arm defense is using oleoresin cap­
sicum," he responded. 

"Oleoresin Capsicum? What's that?" I asked. 
"It's pepper spray. I keep a pocket-size can 
with me at all times," he said, as he showed me 
the small container. 

"Cool, but wouldn't mace be better?" 
"Not really. Mace can take up to five seconds 
to take effect. Also mace might not sufficiently 
stop someone, especially if he is on drugs or an 
adrenaline rush. It has been said that it is like 
being hit with a blowtorch right in the face. 
Additionally, despite pepper spray's effective­
ness, it's non-lethal." 

"Wow. So you'd always use that?" 
"Not really. Pepper gas is good, but it does 
not solve all problems. I own a firearm because 
I choose not to be a victim if there's trouble." 
"Johnny, what kind of gun do you have?" 
"I use the Heckler & Koch USP9F Special 
Operations Handgun in 9mm NATO chamber­
ing which has glow-in-the-dark sights, integral 
flashlight, finger-grooved rubber grips, polygo­
nal rifling, triple position safety, hair trigger, 
titanium firing pin, corrosion-resistant finish 
and a 16-shot capacity." 

"Geez, that's got to be expensive. How much 
did it set you back?" 

"It cost about $1 ,200." 
"That is expensive!" 

"Yes, it is expensive, but so is my life." 
"You have a point there. So what kind of 
rounds do you put in that thing?" 
"In picking bullets and calibers, you need to 
think big and powerful. The most expensive 
gun is worthless without decent ammunition. If 
you are going to stop someone, you need some 
SERIOUS ammunition. I use th~ Winchester 
Q1474 9mm 115-grain +P+ armor-piercing 
round. It will blow a human heart into two sep­
arate halves. If you shoot someone with a load 
like that, you are going to get his immediate 
and undivided attention." 
"Hey, people are going to start calling you 
'Sick Johnny."' 

"Yes, people have asked me 'Do you support 
violence?' And I always answer 'No.' My first 
rule of fighting is and always has been 'the best 
way to win a fight is not to get into one.' Hun 
away; give up your wallet; do something, but 
always avoid conflict whenever possible. I'm 
not going to risk my life, but you have to 
understand that if it comes down to it, failure is 
not an option. You need to have the superior 
training. If you are ever in a crisis, you are in it 
until it is over ... one way or the other." 
"Well Dangerously, it's a good thing that 
you're on our side." 

"Likewise with you, Spider." 
"By the way, what are you up to now? 
heard that you were interning or something." 
"Yes, I am an intern at the St. Joseph County 
Court here in South Bend, and I think I'm also 
the only Notre Dame student who is a member 
of the South Bend Gang Task Force." 
"Sounds cool. Hey, could I also see your con­
cealed handgun license?" 
"Yeah, ju~t don't be telling everybody that I 
have one ... 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY's STAFF  
News  
Tim Logan  Scene  
Rob Pazorik  Sarah Dylag  
Molly Nikolas  Graphics  
Sports  Ken Kearney  
Brian Kessler  Lab Tech  
Kerry Smith  Patrick D. Quigley  
Viewpoint  
Eddie Llull  
Tuesday 74 63 Wednesday~, 65 60 Thursday ~ 65 47 Friday ~(65 47 Saturday_.~ > 64 45 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday 
exccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the As~ociared Press·. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, October 6, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Microsoft subpoenas Harvard professor's notes 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
Another Harvard profes­sor has become embroiled in the federal government's anti-trust case against soft­ware giant Microsoft. 
Microsoft lawy'ers have subpoenaed notes, record­ings of interviews and cor­respondence used by David Yoffie, Starr professor of international business administration, and Michael Cusumano, a professor at MIT, to write a book. 
The professors have denied Microsoft's request because research for the book -"Competing on Internet Time: Lessons from Netscape and its Battle with Microsoft" -was conducted under agreements of confi­dentiality. 
Harvard offi­
write the book cials said the could advance University sup­the company's ports the profes­ease in the anti­sors' refusal trust suit. b e c a u s e "There is Microsoft's information in demand threat­the book that ens academic directly n~ futPs 
research. 
"We are very willing to work with Microsoft and the federal court to verify the accuracy of anything that is in the book," Yoffie said yes­terday. 
"However, to turn over all our tapes, transcripts and notes would violate the basic confidentiality under­standing we had with [the people we interviewed]." 
A Microsoft spokesperson said the material used to 
• SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY • BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
Coach reacts to $762M lawsuit Racist e-mail prompts action 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Syracuse University has responded to the $762 million 
sexual harassment lawsuit filed by two former tennis 
players. In its official response to the suit, SU confesses 
to several allegations made by the players -including 
an admission that head coach Jesse Dwire served alco­
hol to minors on trips. Dwire was tried through the uni­
versity's judicial system in 1996, after former players 
Dacia Kornechuk and Kirsten Ericson filed a sexual 
harassment complaint against him. After a hearing, he 
was found guilty of verbally harassing players. He was, 
however, not found guilty of physically harassing play­
ers or abusing his position to intimidate or threaten 
members of the team. Following the hearing, he was 
suspended without pay during the summer of 1996 for 
three months. Kornechuk, a senior, Ericson, a 1998 SU 
graduate, and their parents filed suit against the univer­
sity earlier this year. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-AUSTIN 
Harassment case may affect policy 
AUSTIN, Texas 
The Supreme Court agreed to hear arguments Tuesday 
on a case that may affect the University of Texas' policy 
on sexual harassment. The case, Davis vs. Monroe County 
Board of Education, will decide what legal responsibilities 
school officials have to stop sexual harassment. Linda 
Millstone, director of the UT Equal Employment 
Opportunity Office, said UT officials will have to wait until 
the decision is given to see what effect it will have on the 
University. "This is a legal juggling game we play to see 
where the liability lies," she said. Lauren Bradshaw, UT 
vice president for administration and legal affairs, said 
she would be surprised if the Supreme Court interpreted 
the law in a way that would force the University to alter 
its sexual harassment policy. "We will look at the policy 
only if they make some radical changes in the law," 
Bradshaw said. 
the govprn­ment's lawsuit." said Microsoft spokesperson Jim Cullinan. "We think this information is important to our case and our defense." 
The book, to be published later this month, describes past business practices of the Microsoft competitor, Netscape Communications Corporation. 
"The book is an in-depth analysis of Netscape, [including] its competitive strategy, dnvP!opnwnt strat­egy and design strategy for softwan\" Yollk said. 
Alex llupp~. Harvard's d i ret:lor 0 r public affairs, said the University has sent its objnctions to Microsoft. 
"llarvard's goal is to pro­tect the integrity of academ­ic research. [But] we are also aware that Microsoft needs the information to defend itself," he said. 
Yoflie and Cusumano are awaiting a response from Microsoft on the objection. Cullinan said the informa­tion will be safe under a protective order of the court. 
"We feel very confident that the protective order would satisfy the professor's concerns," he said. 
BOSTON, Mass. 
Boston College students outraged by a racist e-mail sent to minority leaders are banding together to show they won't tolerate hate and ignorance on campus, students said yesterday. Thirteen members of BC's Asian American, Hispanic, African American and Native Americap students organization received an anonymous e-mail early Thursday morning urging them to leave the school. The e-mail read: "Hey monkees and apes. You all need to go back to where you came from. BC is for white men, not any chinks, spicks, niggers or fags." Students angered by the e-mail will wear blue today as a show of solidarity, said Kohtaro Takeuchi, a spokesman for the school's Asian Caucus and a BC junior. On Thursday and Friday, students observed 15 minutes of silence at 12:45 
p.m. to protest the e-mail. Takeuchi said he expects the practice to continue through thP week. "A lot of people are saying they can't believe this happened," he said. 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY 
Brown students walk across America 
PHOVIDENCE, IU. 
It is their last day as freshmen roommates together, so Hyan Firestone and Gidon Felsen decide to stay up the whole night· talking. As the conversation progresses, they come up with the idea of walking across America togeth­er. "Towards the end of our freshmen year, we vaguely mentioned walking across America. I think alcohol was involved," Felsen said, laughing. "It was only until December last year that we deeided to really do it." Today, the whimsical suggestion becomes a reality, as the two begin their walk across America from Jacksonville, Fla. They hope to reach San Francisco by August 1999. "Our trip is just about walking," Felsen said. "College went by in a blink for me, so I'd like to slow things down. And this is the time to do it, since it's right after school and I have no serious responsibilities. I also wanted to do something that would take a while, opposed to driving or cycling across the country." 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
..................~.·--4 
H L 
.~.. .f·'\\""''"····._f. '\r' 
Q,~,~96.fr,Q {) ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph1csNet 

64  Miami  88  76  
33  New Orleans 84  72  
75  New York  65  44  
62  Phoenix  89  66  
52  St. Louis  77  64  


• NATIONAL WEATHER 
Atlanta  64  37  Dallas  86  
Baltimore  84  65  Denver  51  
Baton Rouge63  44  Honolulu  90  
Chicago  66  55  Indianapolis 75  
Columbus  70  55  Los Angeles 74  




--------------~ 

'Culture on the Quad' A&L job fair to be held Thursday 

The Obse!Ver/Brell Hogan 

Students sample some food yesterday afternoon outside Reekers. Monday was the first day of "Culture on the Quad," a week-long event. 
• 
Air conditioner fire causes major damage 
( lh,crvcr Stall' Report 
i\ small kitchPn fir(' was PXLinguisllPd last night at Wilson Commons of till' lJniVPrsity's f.'isrlll'r (;raduatp 
l{psidi'IH'I'S. 
Noln• I Janw and South llnnd lin• dPpartnwnts respondPd to tlw srPnP just al'tPr S p.m. 
Till' sPrond-story apart­llll'nl's orrupants wen• rPport­edly moving an air conditioning unit in tlw kitdH•n. wlwre they sPt it down on the stov1~ and arridPntally ignited a burner. arrording to IJnnnis Brown, associate dirPdor of l'uhlic I!Piations and Information. 
"Tlw rarton caught on fire. and thn occupants trim! to put it out with a fire extinguislwr. T lw y p u t t lw l'i n~ o u t, b u t it rPignited. Tlwy ran downstairs to try to l'ind another extin­guisl{er. and hy that time, the !'ire dPJHtrtnwnt had alrnady arrived," Brown said, citing a statenwnt from Notre Dame 
S1~curity. 

Light smokn caused an esti­mated $10,000 worth of dam­ago to the apartment. A broken window and damage to the air conditioning unit were also reported. No police report was filed, and no injuries were rnported. 

FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 
Canwrs, jobs and intern­ships are just a taste of what's on tap at this year's Arts and Letters Carner Day, sponsored in part by the Career and Placement of'f'iee at Notre Dame. 
The earner day is divided into three main events, according to Olivia Williams, assistant din~ctor of' Carenr and Plaenmnnt. 
"Thnrn's going to be a earner fair. companins com­ing to interview students for internships and full time career opportunities, and we'll also have six workshops going, as wnll," said Williams. "At the can~nr fair. wn 'II havn 

'Fireside chat' focuses on peace 
By CHRIS KUSEK NcwsWrirer 
The Multicultural Executive Couneil (MEC) focused on peace at the first of five fireside chats to b{l bold this week at Reeker's. 
"War is not in our genes, but rather a social construct," said Kathleen Mass Weigert, associ­atfl director of Academic Affairs and Hesearch for the Center for Social Concerns. 
She discussed the various types of peacemakers and the need for more training in non­violence. 
"We spend millions of dollars training for war, why don't we spend money training for peace." 
ShA spoke of the different forms of peace movements and about 23 career areas repre­sented, such as advertising. banking, the travel industry, social services, and consult­ing." 
The workshops will fonts mainly on how grad uatns with lilH~ral arts degn~es can find the most success in the job market. The topics includ1~ "Careers in Advertisin for 

the goals and dangers of each. "There are three types of' peace makers," she said. First, there are those who oppose all wars ­pa<:ifists. Weigert went on to mention others who oppose cer­tain kinds of weapons and those who concentrate on specif'ic human righL<i violations, such as women's rights. 
Through more conf1ict reso­lution training, shn believes that world peace is possible. 
While emphasizing this need for training. she also pointed out the potnntial problems with mandatory social justice education. She warned of the student who comes in with the wrong attitude. 
While this is a potentia.! problem, shn comparfld to it to 
thn Arts and Lnttnrs Studnnl.," "Marketing Your Lilwral Arts Skills," and "Non-tnehnical Carner Opportuniti1~s in tlw IT Industry." 
Othnr workshops wi II addrnss isstH~s rnlating to internships !'or minority stu­dents, databasn marknting, and standardiznd tnsts, including as tlw MCAT and !.SAT. 
C a I'!H~ r D a y w i II lw h e I d Thursday from 'J::Hl a.m. to 4 
p.m. at McKn n na Ifall. l'iJr­merly known as thn Cnntnr f'o r C: on tin u in g Ed ucation . Students !'rom Notrn Damn, Saint Mary's College, lloly Cross, Bnthnl C:ollegn and Indiana Univ1~rsity at South Bnnd are invitnd and nnrour­aged to bring a resume. 
one  of leading  a  horse  to  
witter.  
"If the horse is  never led  to  

the water, how can hP drink at all?" sh1-1 ask11d. 
Weigert also addressed the role of the Notre Damfl student in peace movements. She r.allod f'or greator emphasis on funding for curriculum. 
"Is education getting as much attAntion as the nnw buildings?" she asked. 
She also stressed using sym­bols and demonstrations to keep the issues in the forefront of public consciousness. 
"Thesl' issues arn very real." shn emphasized. 
The "fireside chats," infor­mal lectures over luneh. will eontinuo this week. 


c!J·-~ 
Cheerios 


• 
I 

/'THE COMPANY OF CHAMPIONS" 
Tuesday, Oct. 6th Morris Inn 7:00 -9:00pm 
·Learn about what General Mills Finance to offer you. ·Meet with individuals from the General Mil Finance team ·Food, fun, & prizes 
Undergraduate Finance &Accounting 
Sales Management pen Inforn:tation Sessi 
Sponsored by The Undergraduate Marketing Club Wednesday Oct 7th CCE -lower level 6-8:30pm ·Meet numerous General Mills employees and ND alumni ·Learn about Sales in the 90's ·Food, fun & prizes ••• 


MAJORS: Undergraduate Business Administration, Marketing, Finance, Liberal Arts 
~~ 
'.en.fl., . 6 
·~­
--~ 
~ 
-
• 




page 4 



Security 
continued from page 1 
missing when they return. 
Gagnon suggests that students not leave possessions unattended, and, when possible, have a study partner who can make sure possessions are safe if one leaves. 
The library is not the only place where book bags are prone. to theft. Book bags are also stolen in the dining halls, where students are in a hurry to eat and may not pay enough attention to their belong-· ings. Even with the 170 new lock-boxes in South Dining Hall, 

Gagnon says that theft does occur, and on average, only 5 or 6 of the protective boxes are used each day. 
Bikes pose another problem for students who do not own a bike lock. Gagnon said most of those thefts are committed by "off-cam­pus perpetrators" who ride an old bike onto campus and ride off with a new one. 
Bike registration, though an imperfect solution by Gagnon's own admission, will help Security find stolen bikes and return them to the owners. Registration offers bike owners a lifetime decal which has helped Notre Dame Security find bikes in off-campus locations from Mishawaka all the way to Houston, Texas. 
Registration is free and can be done either by contacting a Notre Dame bicycle officer, going to the Security Building, or even regis­tering on-line at the Security Web site. 
Gagnon also emphasized the need for students to be more aware of their surroundings when walking home along busy roads. Notre Dame students 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, October 6, 1998 walking home late at night on dimly lit streets and alleys could be targets for theft or assualt. With daylight hours becoming shorter, local citizens often find it difficult to drive safely when they cannot see the students walking along the streets. "Unless you're from the planet Krypton, the car will probably win," Gagnon said. Campus Security has received several calls concerning this matter. "[Safewalk] is a public relations pro­gram that adds a measure of safety," said Gagnon. Safewalk, which is available from 8:30 
p.m. to 2 a.m., seven days a week. 

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
~----------------------------------·~-------------------------­

page 5 

• 
Beer consumption decreases 
MUNICII 
HPPr stPins wpn•n't as full this year at tlu~ l'amPd OktobPrfPst in Munieh, wlwre con­sumption of tlw bn~w dropped to its lowest IPVI.f in yPars despitl' higlwr atll~ndancn. /\bout (~,!i million pnople visited thn 1£1-day annual event that endml Sunday, l.!i percent morf' thanlrl>-Munich tourist office ehinf Gabi WPishaPupl. Yd IH'er consumption droppml to its lowPst lf'VI'I in years-down 4 percent to 10.(, million pints, or just umkr I 2/3 pints pPr pPrson, romparl'd to last year. 'WPishaPupl attributl'd tlw ehangn to morn familiPs bringing •·hildrnn to the fnstival. I.Pss lwPr consumPd also nwant thn Bavarian llPd (:ross had !Pss to do. Tlw group said the llllmlwr of intoxiral.l•d IH'opll' it took earn of droppPd from :{4!i in I 'J'J7. to 27(, this ynar. l'olirl' also rPport•~d thl' number of pPopll' stP<ding bl'l'l' stl'ins was down 15 JWrn~nt. 
Man leaps into record books 
i\UCKI.i\Nil 
A Nn..,· ZP<dand darPdPvil who dovl' ofT Aurkland's highPst building Monday dainwd a world n•rord for his fi«) )-foot bungPP jump. Tral'lir haltPd as l'rowds gathPrnd to watch :\.. 1. llal'kl'tt's S-SI'I'OIHI jump from tlw Sky Towl'l' rasino. llarkPtt 's hungnP r.onl plunge «'IHil·d just aiHJ\'1' thP !wads of thn shouting and whistling spPrtators. llackntt. a promot­«'r rrPditPd with popularizing bungnn jump­ing, said hi' Sl't a n~cord l'or a bung11n jump from a building. Tlw Cuinrwss Book of World llPI'onls dol's not recogniw bungn<' jumps bPI'aUs<• of thPir dangPr. l.ongnr bungee jumps inl'!udl' a nnarly :{.:{00-foot plungn from JwlicoptPr, and a 700-foot drop ofT a dam in tlw I 1J1Jfi .lamPs Bond movin "( ;oldl'nPyl'." 
Daily favorite lacks nutrition 
CIIIC/\CO 
A govPrnmnnt study found cold h1·eakfast l'«'rP<d was the main soun~n of key vitamins and minPrals for Anwrican childrPn. And that's not nPcnssarily a good thing. Childrnn may lw Paling fort iiiPd cl'r<'al in place of vit­amin-rich fruits and VPgetables which con­lain f'illl'r and cancPr-f'ighting substanens, said Amy Suhar. a rnseareh nutritionist with llu• National Canr<'r Institute. lfm· findings WI'!'!' puhlishPd Tuesday in thn Oeotbnr isstw ol' I'Pdiatrirs. a journal ol' the American Al'adPrny of I'Pdiatrirs. The findings show just how littll' of thn foods with naturalU' OI'I'UITing nutriPnts kids arn eating, she said. 1\PIIogg, tlw world's l<~ading maknr of ready­to-Pat rnn~al snPs thn study as good nnws. 

S&P 500: 

Composite 'J8H.56 Volume: 
-14.04 802,760,938
7,726.24 
VOLUME LEADERS 

1'1Udl"6bl):  JlfiSUI  ·~.nlat:~~siE  :1 li61tll  eBirE  
t  1\t:~lW!'Il'tM\  csco  -I t.J-1  -7.H  4K.JI  
Pill. <.OMI'UnW  I> ELL  -7.9H  -:Ci.tKI  57.69  
\.tit KO\OH COKI'  MSH  -2.H2  -2.'}.1  101.19  
INII.I.t:tJitl'  INTt:  -.Ltl  -.\.115  H0.56  
HIMI'AC COMI'liTER  t:Ptl  -1>.53  -1.94  27.75  
tlltAt 1.1". t llRI'  OHCI.  -H.65  -2.25  23.75  
llH I.Nl' I'H Ill!\:(' VJ\1100 INC  l.ll VI lOll  -6.55 ·I 19  ·4.U .. 94  5K.RK 125.HI  
t  I~Nil-\:''<H t:oi<P  CD  -11.6:1  -1.25  9.50  
IkAVII I.FkS <;ROUP  TRV  ·10.54  ·4.06  JUO  

•KENYA 


ASSOCIATED PRESS of Teachers. The teachers fought Angliean Church in Kenya, said he 
back with stones. One teacher and did not believe the government 
NAIROBI one policeman were hospitalized. lacked the money to pay the 
Teachers nationwide went on Dozens were treated for minor cuts promised raises. High-level corrup­strike Monday to protest the govern­and bruises. Elsewhere in the tion had sapped the school system of ment's failure to pay promised rais­region,students at a primary school funds, he said. es, closing schools and idling 7 mil­rampaged, breaking windows at "The government made a mistake lion students. their school. to ... not abide by the agreemnnt," 
Th(l strike fueled critidsm of a Like most nations on the continent, Gitari said. government beleaguered by charges Kenya's teachers are pitifully under· Currently, the highest salary is of top-level corruption and misman­paid and its schools nearly penni­$490 per month, and the lowElSt is agement that has cost President less. $45 per month. In addition, teachers Daniel arap Moi popular support, Moi agreed a year ago to raise receive monthly medical, housing tourist dollars and international teachers' salaries by up to 200 per­and commuter allowances ranging loans. cent over five years in a desperate from $248 down to $28. 
In Nairobi, riot police armed with bid to end a 12-day strike before last Kenya's 260,000 teachers went on tear-gas rifles broke up a demon­December's election. But the govern­strike (~S secondary students were to stration by a few hundred teachers ment paid just one increase before begin their national examinations. chanting, "People united will never saying in July it didn't have enough Joseph Mathenge, who teaches at be defeated." Ten teachers were money to pay the rest. Thika High School, condemned Moi, hauled off in a police van. Education Minister Kalonzo a former gradE~ school teachor, for 
In the western Kenyan town of Musyoka said if the raises agreed on reneging on his pact with teachers. Rongo, police used clubs to brt~ak up were put into effect, 80 percent of "I want to tell the president one a group of teachers discussing the his ministry's 1998-99 budget of thing, if he is unable to manage tho stl"ike and arrested three represen• $733 million would go to pay affairs of this country, let him quit," tatives of the Kenya National Union salaries. David Gitari, head of the Mathenge said. 
Report scorns U.S. human rights policy 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON The United States measures other countries against a lofty ideal when it comes to human rights, but it fre­quently violates these stan­dards within its own bor­ders, Amnesty International contends. 
From prisoners forced to wear shock-emitting stun belts to police who beat suspects without cause, the 153-page report provides­the group's first compre­
hensive  look  at  human  
rights  violations  in  the  
United States.  


Amnesty International accuses the United States of maintaining a double stan­dard: criticizing other coun­tries while not abiding by international treaties and principles of human rights itself. The United States, for example, has failed to sign the U.N. 
Convention on the Rights of the Child, which seeks to promotehuman rights for children. 
"When the U.S. house is not in order, it makes it far harder for the U.S. to take the kind of leadership role in international human­rights that many of us in Amnesty would like to see it take," says William Schulz, executive director or the American chapter of the London-based organization. 
Amnesty, a longtime vocal opponent of capital punish­ment, admonished the United States for its contin­ued use of the death penal­ty. The country should move to abolish the system, which is "racist, arbitrary and unfair," the group said. 
U.S. authorities have exe­cuted more than 350 pris­oners since 1990, and another 3,300 prisoners await execution on death row, the report noted, and some statns execute juvn­niles and pnrsons with mental retardation. 
International standards dictate that law nnforcr.­ment officers should use force only as a last rnsort and in proportion to the threat they eneounter. But the report aeeuses police of freq u en tlydis regarding these standards, beating and abusing suspects unnecessarily. 
The 1997 case of Abner Louima, a Haitian immi­grant allegedly tortured by New York City police, recently propelled the prob­lem into the spottlight. 


Eldred has brought a lot of excitement and L------------------~ enthusiasm about the College to alumnae, Henry here is a perfect fit because she is the product of a Catholic women's education. 
said. "Dr. Eldred really understands Saint Mary's," "There is absolutely a renewed sense of 
at 1-5323

said Henry. "If you didn't know otherwise, you pride," Henry added. "Dr. Eldred is having a big would think she was an alumna. Her presidency impact on alumnae and a lot of them are anx­page 6 

Day 
continued from page 6 

Student Academic Council, has been designed for students to actively participate in the new campus holiday. · 
"It's an exciting way for the student body to come together to appreciate what makes us unique," said student body vice president Nancy Midden. 
Students will have the perfect means for expres­sion on a banner outside of Haggar College Center. Every student will have the opportunity to explain her pride for Saint Mary's by writing on the banner entitled "1,443 reasons why we love Saint Mary's." 
Throughout the day, students are encouraged to wear Saint Mary's clothing and pride ribbons, which will be distributed around campus. 
A special dinner will be served in the dining hall, and the day will culminate with a performance by thP campus band Hotel Prati, at Dalloway's. 
Th1~ idea for Pride Day originated last year as a positive way to display gratification in the educa-
Eldred 
continued from page 1 

in location from Washington D.C., to South Florida. 
This fall, Eldred has already visited eight alum­nae clubs and plans to visit even more before the year is over, Ilenry said. Eldred hopes to be able to visit every one of the 57 alumnae clubs once every five years. 
"She believes that we can't take the alumnae support for granted. Dr. Eldred knows she has to continue to be in touch with them and continue to earn their respect," said Henry. 
"She also wants to be sure the alumnae know what is happening with the college today before asking for their support," continued Henry. "She doesn't think that just because the alumnae have graduated that they will be sup­portive." 
The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 6, 1998 ----t-i-on--.-so_c_i_a_I._a_n_d__s_p-ir~it~u~a~l~a~s~p~ects ofS~a~i=n~t~M~a~r-y-,'s~-r=s;=·==l\1[=====<=:========~·~~====-~-~·======~ 
a~~~~sh~~r%~ntinues the positive momentum on ..··••·•···•··•·•••· · .. llaS changed greatly 
our campus," said student body president Sarah Siefert. "We can use this as a chance to step back 
Since ItS }8. 44 inception

and appreciate all the opportunities Saint Mary's 
has allowed us." 

~y JACKIE HENSLER In her four years as a student, Siefert said she 
•News Writer has noticed many changes in the attitude of stu­dents toward the campus. Sheattributed the 
Magnificent forest trees rise upswing in pride to Eldred's enthusiastic arrival, 
from the river banks and line increasing enrollment and Saint Mary's No. 1 
the avenue. ranking in U.S. News and World Report for five 
In the mid-1840s, when the consecutive years. 
ca.mpus was cha-rtered, it was "There's been a huge shift in our campus cul­
described in yearbooks as a ture," she said. "It's been so exciting to see the 
place which ''inspired activity spirit of the upper-class students trickle down to 
and energy, while the quiet the freshmen." 
seclusion invited reflection and The event is also meant to link the students with 
s~udy." 

Saint Mary's storied 154-year history. 
·Sipce then, S~int Mary's "Of course, our pride in who we are now all goes 
women have evolved dramati­back to the founding sisters and their mission of 
cally. providing an institution for the education of 
Some of the greatest changes women," Eldred said. "We need to keep in mind 
in a Saint Mary's student today our long and distinguished history ... without losing 
lie in their academia, physical sight of our future." 
health and social aspects, as compared with women nf the past. 
In the late 19th century, two hours of every Wednesday afternoon were spent reading aloud the selected works of pro­fessor-approved authors. All 

All Day • Pride ribbons distributed 
students were also required to Around campus 
write a weekly composition 

• "1443 reasons w-hy w-e love 
describing the "elegance and Saint: Mary's" banner signing 
e)(f.lr'essive • power" of writing, Haggar College Center 
according to an antique college 3:15pm • President Marilou Eldred's speech 
prospectus.

LeMans Courtyard 
Strict rules were also admin­

3:30 pm • Photo ofstudents and f-...culcy 
istered to the act of writing
forming French Cross 
qn:e's thoughts on paper. Each

Le Mans Courcyard 
ii"~el\, .every student was
5 pnt • Special dinner 
~:;eguired to write home.
Noble Family Dining .Hall 9 -11pm • Hotel Prat:i 
Dalloway's 
Got News? Call us 
However, every letter written and received was viewed by the mother Superior. 
The extensive grounds with trails contributed to the health of the women of the past, the 1860 prospectus said. Typical activities included calisthenics, croquet and archery to "induce sufficient exercise." Regular measurements were taken to avoid over-tasking women from strenuous work. 
Socially, careful attention was paid to ensure that women "avoid all that is rude, coarse or trivial." In addition to academic life students were instructed in domestic all'airs such as prepar­ing a table and sewing. 
General rules included paying particular kindness to new stu­dents of the school. Women were restrained ·from holding "private friendships" with only one other student and encour­aged to show general kindness to all. 
Over the years, Saint Mary's College has relaxed some of its strict rules regarding social behavior and physical educa­tion. Though grounded in past traditions, the history of Saint Mary's College remains a source of pride which will undoubtedly remain well into the 21st century. 


•IRAQ 
In major shift, Annan proposes review of military disarmament 
Associated J>ress 
UNITED NATIONS 

The U.N. chief outlined his proposal Monday for a "cmn­prehensive rtlview" of Iraq's compliance with U.N. resolu­
tions. sug­gesting it now be up to U.N. arms inspectors to prove that Iraq hasn't eorn­plotely dis­


armPd itself. Annan 
If aeeept-Pd by tlw Security Council, Secretary-yeneral Kofi Annan's recommendation would mprnsent a major shift in the way U.N. arms experts have worked for the past snvnn years, putting the onus on them to produce evidence that Baghdad still has weapons of mass destruction. 
Proviously, inspectors have told the council that while they havpn't found evidence that Iraq still has such weapons, they can't be sure that the evidence doesn't 11xist. 
That argument, boosted by
' 
charges that Iraq had devel­opnd an advanced eonceal­mnnt program to keep evi­dence from inspectors, has bmlfl suflieifmt for the council to agree to koop sanctions on Iraq, depriving it of its most valuable <'Ommodity, oil. 
It wasn't dear if thfl council would go along with Annan's proposal. Other elements of the plan could be troubling, such as his asking the council -not inspectors -to make a final list of what Iraq needs to do to have sanctions lifted and stating when that day might eomo. 

In outlining its position Monday, the United States flatly objectmi to any "prnde­tcrmined outcome" of a review. 
U.N. weapons experts must certify that Iraq has destroyed its chemical, bio­logical and nuclear weapons before the eouncil will lift sanctions imposed after Baghdad invaded Kuwait in 1990, touching off the Gulf War. 
Baghdad announced Aug. 5 it was stopping inspections bP.caust~ tho chief U.N. inspec­tor, Hichard Butler, refused to eertify Iraq had destroyed its banned weapons. 
In a resolution last month, the Security Council said it would consider conducting a comprehensive review of Iraq's effort to disarm ltself if Baghdad rescinded its Aug. 5 decision. 
Annan briefed the council Monday on his thoughts on how the review should be car­ried out. The council doesn't have to accept his proposal, and could make changes to it. 
Annan has been meeting with Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz to discuss the proposal, and a decision from Baghdad on whether to accept it was expected after Aziz returns home following a Wednesday meeting with Annan. 
In his report, Annan sug­gested the review be carried out "a few weeks at most" after Iraq reverses its deci­sion. 
The United States, accord­ing to briefing notes read to the council Monday by deputy ambassador Peter Burleigh, says the review should eome 

Today, Octoher 6, 1998 For time and location of 1neeting, call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentiaI. 
once inspectors have reported that they can do their jobs ­some six to eight weeks later. "The length of time depends on the quality of the coopera­tion," his notes say. 
Annan said the review would be conducted in two parts: The first phase would be to define a course of action and timetable that "would be so designed as to make it pos­sible for the Security Council to satisfy itself whether all the necessary conditions for lift­ing the oil embargo-have been fulfilled." 
The first phase would deter­mine if Iraq still has weapons of mass destruction or was trying tn rebuild them: con­firm allegations of non-com­pliance; establish a timetable to investigate remaining issues and answer whether Iraq still eonstitutes a military threat to the region. 
The U.N. Special Commission and the International Atomic Energy Agency -which conduct inspections -would submit reports detailing Iraq's achievements in destroying its banned weapons, the propos­al states. They would also report on what needs to he done and the time it should take. They would provide "relevant evidence" .to sub­stantiate charges that Iraq hasn't fulfilled its disarma­ment obligations. 
Iraq would be invited to provide its own account of how it has complied. 
With all that information, the council would list the remaining requirements to be t'ulfilled by Iraq as a condition of lifting sanctions. with a timeframe established, Annan's proposal says. 
Nelson addresses women's challenges 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE and why changes need to hap­News Writer pen. "But why n~mnmbnr only the 
In an effort to help women problems?" Nelson ask(~d. gain financial freedom, author "Understand the foundation of and entrepreneur Paula your strengths, master them Nelson has been promoting and own your success." money-making strategies and She also highlighted the diffi­techniques for the last 20 culties of personal suceess, as years. well as the ways in which 
Nelson spoke last night structure and planning an~ 
about how to  neenssary  to  
work toward  harness ambi­ 
economic equilibrium.  'F.ND OUT WHAT YOU'RE  tion insight.  and  
"What  are  GOOD AT AND DO  Nelson noted  
the  chal­ MORE OF IT. fiND OUT  that  no  one  
lenges?" asked Nelson.  WHAT YOU DON'T DO WELL  can do any­thing alone,  
The  econo- AND STOP IT.'  providing  
my, technolo­ examples sueh  
gy,  employ- as  a  team,  a  
ment, morals,  PAULA NELSON  corporation  
ethics,  envi­ AUTHOR AND ENmHPRENEUR  and a country.  

ronment and God are the most prevalent hurdles for women to contend with, according to Nelson. 
She placed great emphasis on the importance of special­ization in modern society through her "Strengths Theory." 
"Find out what you're good at and do more of it," she said. "Find out what you don't do well and stop it." 
Nelson said that in a world predisposed to over-analyzing the negative aspects of every­day life, line-tuning individual capabilities is not easy. Americans have a negative ten­dency to focus on what's wrong 
.... :·,: . '· . 
"The world is 
not all on the same agenda. What ean we do to rise together?" she asked. 
Nelson also foeusnd on spiri­tuality 
"Faith is not restricted to a Saturday or Sunday serviee, it belongs in the workplace too. Believe God has a place for you and lind it." 
There are, however. conse­quences to success. A shift in focus, time commitment. and alliances may occur. 
"But you can do whatever you want to do if you build on a strength," said Nelson. 
The lecture took place in Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin 


A I 0 N s 
ND Opera

Thurs, Oct 8 3:30-6:00 pm Annen berg Auditorium Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompanist will be provided. 
Roles open for Soloists and Chorus for Spring Semester ND Opera Production. 
Sign-up sheet posted in 105 Crowley. 
Call 631-6201 for more information. 
AUDITIONS 
Auditorium. 
Thursday-Saturday October 8 -10 at 8 p.m. Sunday, October 11 at 2:30p.m. Little Theatre 
IM8lifi0
c;~ THE ARTS 
~NOTII. DAM/!, IN 
t. 


page 8 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, October 6, I 998 
Three top Clinton advisors leave White House posts 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In a swift change of com­mand, three of President Clinton's top advisers are leav­ing within a three-week span even as the White House braces for impeachment hear­ings. 
Chief of staff Erskine Bowles announced he will depart soon a f t e r Congress 
completes work perhaps as early as this week but more likely next week. In addition, 


R a h m UTILE WHILE ••• THEY COME AND 
Emanuel, the presi-THEY GO. AND THE PRESIDENT 
d e n t ' s WILL FIND PEOPLE WHO ARE TAL­
senior 
adviser, ENTED AND ENERGETIC AND CAN 
said he 
HELP HIM PROMOTE THE AGENDA 
will leave 
HE'S LAID OUT.'

on Oct. 19. Bowles 
a n d 
JOE LOCKHART

Emanuel join an WHITE HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY 
exodus led by press secretary Mike McCurry, whose last day was Friday. Together, the three officials have been among a dozen or so White House aides waging a damage-control battle ever since the Monica Lewinsky scandal erupted last Jan. 21. 
"They're not only experi­
• SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 


Firefig ing"iP: )e crashes into flames 
Associated Press 
BANNING; Clilif. 

Santa Ana winds sent wild­fires raging across thousands of acres of Southiltn California hrushland Monday and hundreds of homes were evacuated. 
A state air tanker battling the blazes crashed, apparent­ly killing the pilot. and a fire• fighter collapsed and died. 
Smoke stained the sky as the 18.000-acre Mount Edna fire rushed west from near Banning through The Badlands of Riverside County in the direction of Moreno Valley, and 3,200 acres burned to the north in Cherry Valley. Three structures were 
destroyed  - a  house,  a  
mobile  home  and  an  
unknown building.  

The pilot was presumed dead but conditions made it impossible to get to the area, said Karen T£irrill, chief information officer for the California Department of Forestry in Sacramento. 
The pilot's identity was withheld. 
The aircraft was a single­seat Grumman S-2, a Korean War-vintage, twin-engine bomber that carries 800 gal­lons of fire retardant. Terrill said. It was the first crash.of a California Department of Forestry S-2 air tanker in enced and talented, they're trusted and respected," said a senior adviser, speaking on condition of anonymity. "It's not a happy day." 
Joe Lockhart, the president's new press secretary, dis­missed the turnover's signifi­cance. 
"The president doesn't feel deserted," Lockhart said. He said staff people "stay for a lit­

'THE PRFSI­
DENT DOESN'T FEEL DESERTED ••• (HE SAID STAFF PEo­PLE] STAY FOR A 
longer. He is returning to North Carolina to explore run­ning for governor. 
McCurry and Emanuel were considering leaving early this year but were locked in their jobs by the Lewinsky contro­versy, not wanting to abandon the president as the crisis 
A firefi · r.oofs.ln ·· arl.d died leagues he •.. sn t feeling well and was having trouble breathing. Six hundred people were 
evacuated from a housing developmentin southwest Hanning, sa,Jd Riverside 
County-CDF $pol<::eswoman Cassandra Tholllpson. 
The other big blaze, dubbed the Taylor fire. erupted later in the day and ran toward Calimesa. 
Five hundred people were evacuated, said Calimesa city spokeswoman Sandra Massa­Lavitt. 
"The wind condition is our predominant problem," said Battalion Chief Jim Wright. "Resources are thin due to the multi-fires in the area. We've been deploying a hit­and-run strategy -push the fire around structures and then go on to the next threat." 
About 150 evacuees came to Beaumont City Hall, one of three centers, said Red Cross spokeswoman Pamela Anderson. 
"I think they pretty much hav.e what's ()n:thek backs," she.. sald.. 9..... Jf.J:ie group, eighty.·wer.e·.·•fl. •ents from a school for s.pe -needs chil­
dren. · tle while ... they come and they go. And the president will find people who are talent­ed and energetic and can help him promote the agenda he's laid out." 
Bowles had wanted to leave the W h i t e House late 
last year
but was 
persuaded by Clinton to stay 

deepened. at this point it's still a bet," a 
Aside from Lockhart, the senior official said. Podesta president hasn't signed off on led the administration's replacements, but there are defense in the Whitewater ready candidates. case and Travel Office firings 
John Podesta, an attorney and has been the pointman in who is deputy chief of staff, is the Lewinsky controversy, as highly respected and believed well. 
in line for Bowles' job. Two presidential counselors, "He's got the best odds but Paul Begala and Doug Sosnik, 
I" ~ 

Considering the 
London Program? 
Remember you can apply via the WWW. See our Web application at http:1/www.nd. edu:80/--londonpr/ 
are undr.r consideration for Emanuel's job. 
Begala, a deft speechwriter. has appeared on Sunday talk shows to defend Clinton. Sosnik has stayed out of the spotlight, working quietly with political contacts around the country to support the pn~si­dent. 



Committee votes to open impeachment inquiry 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

In a historic step taken strict­ly along party linos, the llousc .Judiciary Committee voted Monday night for an open­r~rHled impeachment inquiry of l'rr1sidnnt Clinton. 
Lawmakers were somber and partisan by turns, as tho top Hnpuhlican lawyer cited "sub­stantial and rrr~dible nvidnnee" of I~ possible grounds for imprmehmnnt. 
The roll call for a formal inquiry under Watergate-style rules was 21-16. with all the panel's Hepublicans in favor and all Democrats opposed. Tlw full llouse is nxpeetod to agrrH~ to thn inquiry later this week. thus making Clinton only thn third president in American history to b11 subjected to the threat of formal impeachment pror11ndings. 
"I>o we haw~ a duty to look further. or to look away?" Chairman llr~nry llyde, H-111., asked at mid-morning as he gavrded the rommittnn to order in thn samr~ cavernous room wlwre Hir:hard Nixon's fat11 was ddmtml a quartnr-c11ntury ago. 
The Democrats' top lawyer, Abbe Lowell, said the ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE PRESENTS: Hepublican staff had simply 
"subdivided" Starr's11 charges without adding significant new allegations.
~e-c8J:Jte-c~m The committee acted as fresh polling evidence suggested the proceedings could help shape
I tv-6-6!(; l 
the outcome of mid-term elec­tions a month away. 
GOP sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said a new survey taken for the Hepubliean National Committee indicated that bedrock Democratic voters have begun expressing greater interest in the election than they did only two weeks ago, but still not as much as Republican voters. The finding comes after a period in which Democratic officials have been accusing the GOP of being too partisan on the impeach­ment issue. 
Clinton himself did not men­tion the proceedings unfolding 16 blocks away when he appeared briefly before reporters on the White House grounds. 
Said his spokesman, Joe Lockhart: "We don't believe there's anything here that 
"This is not about Independent Counsel Kenneth Watergate," retortnd Rep. John Starr's evidence relating to Conyers of Michigan, the pan­Clinton's relationship with ni's senior Democrat. "It's an Monica Lewinsky. but other oxtramarital affair." matters as well. The committee 
Democrats tried twice to cur-would have power to subpoena tail the witnesses and scope and 
conduct hear­duration of ings.'THIS IS NOT
the inquiry, In an hour­and argued ABOUT long presenta­that even if tion to theWATERGATE. 
prOV!)n, panel, the IT'S AN EXTRA­
some of the Republicans' allegations MARITAL lead investiga­against tor, David 
AFFAIR.'

Clinton do Schippers, not rise to broadened the the level of counts set out 
REP. JOHN CONYERS by indepen­
a n 
impeach­D-MIC/1. dent counsel 
a b I e Kenneth Starr offense. to raise the Both times they were turned possibility that Clinton took part away on party-line votes, in a broad conspiracy to cover including on one proposal to up his actions. limit the inquiry to Clinton's He also addressed the issue of relationship with former White Lewinsky's truthfulness, a key House intern Monica Lewinsky point since her testimony about and force the ease to be some key details differs from wrapped up by Nov. 25. the president's. "For the limited 
Under the rules adopted at purpose of this report, we sug­the Hepublieans' insistence, gest that Monica Lewinsky's Congress would be empowered testimony is both substantial to investigate not only and credible," the attorney 
said. 


reaches the level of an posed count of impeaehmcnt impeachable offense." against Nixon over his alleged 
Nixon resigned before the full backdating of income tax House could vote to impeach returns. him in 1974. The only other "If President Nixon's alleged president to face the threat of lies to the IHS about his iaxes impeachment, Andrew were not grounds for impeaeh­Johnson, ment in 1974, w a s how then are impeached 
alleged lies by the about President House but Clinton's pri­
'WE
ARE

acquitted in vate sexual the Senate WITNFSSING r c 1 a t i o n s h i p by a single NOTHING LFSS with Ms. vote in Lewinsky
THAN THE

1868. grounds in Inside the SYMPTOMS OF 1998," he said. 0 The lawyers'
c m mitte e A CANCER ON THE AMERICAN 
r o o m , Schippers, PRFSIDENCY.' • the lifelong Democrat hired by Hyde to oversee the case for Republicans, methodi­cally reviewed evidence submit­ted three weeks ago by Starr. 
Dropping some of Starr's counts. adding others, and recasting still others, he eame up with 15 counts, four more than Starr had. 
He said, for example, that there was evidence that Clinton "may have been part of a con­spiracy with Monica Lewinsky and others to obstruct justice and due administration of jus­tice." Starr didn't raise the specter of a conspiracy with multiple players. Lewinsky received immunity from Starr in exchange for her testimony. 
Schippers also said the pres­ident may have committed another offense by takjng steps to conceal Ms. Lewinsky's false affidavit in the Paula Jones sexual harass­ment suit and by allowing his attorney to use that affidavit in Clinton's own Jones deposi­tion to deny a sexual relation­ship. 
Many of Schippers' counts cited evidence of impeachable offenses in statements Clinton made either in the deposition for the Jones lawsuit last January, or before Starr's grand jury in August. Still oth­ers concerned allegations that the president sought to coach his secretary, Betty Currie, in her testimony. 
In one of the day's numerous mentions of Watergate, Lowell noted that the Judiciary Committee had rejected a pro-
Attention Sophomores 
Tuesday, October 6 6:00 -8:00pm with Who's yo Daddy Price $2.00 All you can eat subs Class shirts $10.00 
Check out class web page at www.nd.edu/ -classOl 
maneuvering aside. m ueh of the day was eonsumed with REP. BOB BARR p r e p a r e d R-CA. remarks by committee members, Hepublieans and Democrats by turn, that underscored the partisan split 
on the panel. 
Hep. Maxine Waters, D­Calif., head of the Congressional Black Caucus, decried Starr's efforts to coax Ms. Lewinsky into turning against the president. "The Constitution is on trial, and I hope that we will uphold the Constitution and the eivil rights of everybody involved," she said. 
Rep. Bob Barr, R-Ga., per­haps the committee's most forceful critic of the president, stirred echoes of Watergate. "We are witnessing nothing less than the symptoms of a cancer on the American presi­dency. If we fail to remove this cancer, it will expand to destroy the principles that matter most to us," he said. 
How they voted 
T~ House Judicrary Committee 
~t-.::rted Mc:n~i•;.y nigt1t ror an 
open-ended impea.chmant 
Inquiry or Pre$~rrt Clinton .II, 
look at the voting 
R•Pf'••nt•U­
'R•publicans 
-i1fi{Z:f:l~~~F!:;~~iif::;·~.:~~~~-~;;· 
St1 Mct)nllum Aa. Yfls 
-·~·t.t~:.····
Go€:1(<!91! G<~k as Pa Yll.s 
~Wiz·i?:i''t\;fl~..,·s·'i~··· 
La.mar Swctth T~raes Y~ 
llllllflt::·.:~t\'{(d:E~Jlli•···z:·\~·.· 
Charles C!lrHidv F'la 
-·~~tt%ilit@lli~i\M;;J 
S:.tt• lic-JC1df1(< '•'<l \"e:s 
-~~.l~1t(;:];i,\:;:;~ig~\1:>. :.. -. 
,·ant  Term  YIJ~  
·~ Olddl ;!if: ILL.'  Ohio . , Y&5 .•  
6ota B.:trr llltii..Jel'lldns ..  .Ga 'ferrl.  I'M . . ._.  
,<\sa HU}:JhirrSOr  "''~  Yes  
llti~~  Ind.  Ye&.  
Chnstoprtfr Cannl)n  U~Hh  Yes  
~Rogrii  ....  QIC  ~~.  
l111~V Gra'ti'f11  sc.  Y:e,;  
jJIWi~X.7'·  ~Ill_  Yss.  
O.mocrilll$  
,Jottr't c:-·a)~r!l  Mir.h  1110  
B:!nley Fratll<.  M:~:'i'S  1\iJ  
Chflt~S f:'.,(flllf'lltl<l  l{'t'.  Ntl  
)1ow..~rd Bf!m\~ll  Cl.t)f  Nu  
Ald: S.::u.r~'rtll-r  \i)'t.  ~~.'1  
.I'~'!m:lhJ Nad~t  N.Y.  t>.\1  
Rf.>!letl Sr.t~.l  ....~.  ~·o  
M~MnV-i:V.I Zi:Je l<h~rtm  NCca••  Nl:t 1\'1:1  
Shei~ J&:l<!'i.I:Jil·Lti~  Tt!~ii."io  N(l  
\.f;~~o:if~ ·.~uuers  cau  ~-ll  
\M;:;din t.'k!r±ftilti  \4;~!';  No  
Witi;Yfl Det.:ltluilt  M:il:'i,_  M  
Rt:t'lri<tt w~~e'  Ra  Nll  
Sl~1' Rmtr'tl<i!•l  N.J  ~i(l  
TI'r.ll'l'lllf. B:1H>I!It  '1\lis.  1\11.)  



VIEWPOINT 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OrFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 0rF1CE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
page 10 ------------------------------------------------os~ERVER --------------------Tuesday, October 6, 1998 

1998-99 GENERAL BOARD EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher MacKenzie NEWS EDITOR.. . ...... .Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR.. ........... Eduardo Llull Ao DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelar SPORTS ElliTOR ........ ........ K,Hhleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........ ..............Sarah Dylag CONTROLI.ER ....... ..........•..Dave Rogero Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ...... ~1. Sh.mnon Rvan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR .... ..........1\.e\'in D.t(um The Observer is the indcpen~.lcnr newsp.1pcr published hy rhc srdtl:nts of rllt' Univcr.~iry ofNorrc D.unc duLac and Sainr M.u-y's Colk·gc. lr docs not nece.~saril}' rd1ccr rhc policies of d1c administration of either im.rirution. The news is reponed as .tccur.udy .md llbjcctivdy as possible. Un.~igncd ediwrio1ls represent rhc opinion of the majoriry or rhc Ediror~in-Ciut:f. :\\,1 n.1gin~ Editor, AssiSlant M;maging Editor and dcpanmcm t:ditors. Conunem;~ric~.lettt:rs and cnlumm prest:nt the ,·icw.~ of tht: .lllrhors, .md nor neccsJ>;Jrily rhosc ofThe Obst·rvcr. Vi~..-wpoim ~pace is avaihtblc to all members of the Nmrc D.nne/S.1int Mary':. communi()' ;md w .1ll reader!>. The frl'e expression ofvarying opinion~ rhrnugh lcrtcrs ts encouraged. Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Assisranr ME 631-4541 Advertising 6.~ 1-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sporrs 631-4543 F.x 631-6927 Scene/Saint Marv's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Ediror/Vie~poinr 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.tdu Office Manager/General information 631-7471 News E-M.Iil observer .obsnews.l @nd.edu  ':. i~ ',·'• macnelly.com  . ~­~~-­~~--=-­ 

• DIGGING DEEPER 
Truth and Catholic Higher Education 
"A wise man is one who sauors all things as they really are.. " 
-Bernard of Cairvaux 
Why do we study? Perhaps what undPrliHs much of our thinking about education is the basic premise that knowledge is power. We study largely 
Aaron Kheriaty 

because education will help us get ahead in the world. Statistics clearly show that more schooling correlates with greater material success. The "MBA=BMW" mentality can creep into the motives of students with the most noble of intentions. Yet surely our edu­cation at Notre Dame cannot simply be reduced to mere job training. To guard against this mentality, we must ask our­selves the question why we bother studying? 
Two statements of antiquity can help us keep our education in perspective. The first is, omne ens est verium -all that is real, is true. The second state­ment is, omne ens est bonum -all that is. is good. In many respects, these sweeping assertions sound foreign to the modern mind, perplexing because of their vagueness, and useless in "the real world." Upon closer examination, they logically lead to the simple conclusion that knowledge of truth is a good in and of itself. It should therefore be sought for its own sake. Knowledge and wis­dom are an end in themselves, not sim­ply a means of attaining something else. 
With this in mind. as students, we must take advantage of the intellectual opportunities which this University affords. Our intellectual curiosity should Pxtend bPyond college; we need to culti­vate it while we are here, and carry it with us the rest of our lives. Diligent work. prayer and discipline, will lead to thn simple delight of learning which characterizes the life of anyone serious about the pursuit of knowledge. 
We must avoid becoming what John Henry Newman describes here as the product of an education gone bad: "This is an emblem of their minds; at first they have no principles laid within them as a foundation for th1~ intellect to build upon; they have no discriminating con­to our Ultimatr. End, the Source of all truth. Thus, the fundamental purpose of a Catholic education is to show how right thought leads to moral virtue, and yes, to Faith. 
Unfortunately. many involved in Catholic higher education drive a wedge between faith and reason. This is reflected in a statement by one presi­dent of a Jesuit University: "We have never said that a student coming here is going to be indoctrinated. Just as a Catholic hospital is, first of all, a hospi­tal, a Catholic University is, first of all, a 
victions, and no grasp ofconsequences.And therefore they talk at random, if they talk much and cannot help being flippant, or what is emphatically called young. They are merely dazzled by phenomena instead of perceiving things as they are." We might call this sort of person the quintessential Yuppie. 
The "first princi-

E
DUCATION IS NOT A MATTER OF CRAMMING 0UR HEADS WITH STUFF, TO BE SPAT OUT LATER ON A TEST. IT IS A MEANS OF FORMATION THAT MUST ENCOMPASS THE WHOLE PER­
SON. 
university." Such think­ing reveals a sad distor­tion of the unity of truth, whether scientif­ic, religious or other­wise. It is based on the clumsy assumption that religious doctrine is not really truth worthy of being taught at a uni­versity. At the root of this reluctance to unite faith and reason is an underlying insecurity of many Catholic educa­tors. They often regard 
ples" Newman refers to ought to form the basis of our education at Notre Dame. These principles are grounded in the creed we profess as Catholics, viz., that God is the source of all truth; and all the "knowledge" in the world, apart from this Truth, is worth nothing. 
Education is not a matter of cramming our heads with stuff, to be spat out later on a test. It is a means of formation that must encompass the whole person. Truth demands not only the assent of our mind, but also the ordering of our will. James Schall expressed this rela­tion between the will and the intellect in this way: "Moral faults, both serious ones and light ones, can in fact hinder us from having the freedom from our­selves that enables us to see what is not ourselves, to see what is." Truth is our immediate end, which ought to lead us Catholic Tradition with suspicion, and fear ridicule by their peers in the secu­lar university. The result is the assertion that academic freedom consists in breaking all bonds of ecclesiastical over­sight. 
This is precisely what has happened. In the 1960's Catholic universities in the United States severed even tenuous ties to the Church. But this experiment failed; it has not resulted in academic freedom, but in a slavish obedience to the whims of secular ideology. The unity of truth has been replaced by a smor­gasbord of politically correct mishmash. The search for truth has been replaced by the pursuit of sophistry. At the ulti­mate extreme of the severance of faith and reason is the following situation: knowledge is no longer sought for its own sake; it degenerates into a means to gain power, pn~stige and recognition from the secular world. Ideology drowns philosophy; doubt and skepticism suffo­cate faith. The obj(~etive "good" is replaced by mawkish and sentinwntal talk of subjective "values." It results finally in a "pick and choose" Catholic intellectualism, a reluctance to present anything that is not palatable to thn con­temporary world. The result is seen most clearly in Catholic theology drpart­ments, which end up attempting to rival the teaching authority of the Church. This would be an almost laughable phe­nomenon. if not for the tragic fact that their antics deform the minds of so many students. 
To guard against these gross errors, let us, in all humility, be reminded that our Lord inv~stcd the Chureh -not tenured tlwologians-with the authori­ty to guard revealed truth from error. We must also remembPr that Christ's words offended his contemporaries' sen­sibilities to the point that thny crucified him. As a Catholic university. we should sometimns be, like our Lord, a "sign of contradietion." Some things are ancient because they are old; others are ancient because they are true. Our Catholic pat­rimony is of the latter. Such a treasun~ can only be passed on by a university which seeks to be both "Catholie" and a "university" in the fullest sense of the word. 
As students, we must never lose sight of the immense value of our Catholic education. Catholic educators, in turn, must never lose sight of thf~ir immense responsibility to form intellectuals with the only Truth that ean set us free. 
Aaron Kheriaty is a senior preprofes­sional studies and philosophy major. /lis column usually appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

• 000NESBUIW 
eovemOR ffJU9H, I.A7Et-Y 
>tV'V~ 8fii5N !¥W/N6 THAT 7H/3. CIJRR!3NT ''Pt<IJ­C&S6"INtuA9HIN6TON HA5 CAU9el? YOU TO ()f)&!iT/ON 
RUNNING FOR PR£'31­
\ t?eNT..• 
S!NC$ }Ot/Fe 7H& 60.P. Ri!JNT­!<UNNC:R, THIS NATURAUY 
RAIS/36 me Q{J~!377CW: ti!HAT ~XACTI.-Y 1?0 'IWHt!VG 70 f"t3AR Ft<IJM 7Hl3 ''F'ROCiieG"? 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
WOK, 1H~ P!<OC£93 /'3 l/61.-Y. !T5 WR/1?. !1'5 OlffOr CONTT<OI.-. tu~ SHOUW AU 813 Af'I?Ail? OF 7HC: PF!O­
C/3%/ 116R.YAFRAIP.' 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Man, being reason­
able, must get drunk; 
The best of life is but intox­
ication.' 
-Lord Byron 

VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, Ocrober 6, 1998 ------------------­

• LETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Donahue Takes Stance on Non­Discrimination Clause 
Kindly add my name to tho many Domers who have urgPd the University to include sexual orientation in its non-diserimination clause. Our hope is that The Acadcmie Cotmdl will follow the recommendation of the Faculty Senate in supporting this most important issue. 
A non-diserimination elause, ol1icially adopted by the Univ11rsity, alerts pnople ovorywhere that our Alma Mater stands fot·thrightly in favor of equal protection for all people ... including gay and lesbian students and fac­ulty mnmb(~rs ... and will enforce to tho full extent of thll law any aetions which deprive homosexuals of equal protPrtion against hateful speech or behavior. Notre Darrw's imprint on this matter means that America's most rnspectcd Catholic University believes we are all (;od 's children with equal aceess to the guarantees of thn U.S. Constitution and no less important, equal mem­bnrship in the rnmarkable World-Wide family of stu­dents, alumni and faculty of Our Lady's University, Notre Dame. 
Phil Donahue N<)tre Dnrne Class of 1957 October 6, 1998 

• lETIER TO THf EDITOR 
Right to Life Club Ignored by Senators 
A I'Pw wonks ago, the Notre Damn/Saint Mary's Hight to l.ifP Club issuml a h~tter stating our position on former sen­ator Bill Bradley's visit to Notre Dame. We assured stu­dents that W(~ did not oppose Bradley's visit but were opposnd to his voting record on abortion. We also urged students to ask tlwms(~lves whntlwr or not Bradley's disre­gard for life in tlw womb thrnatnnnd his vision of a truly just American sodety. 
Wlwn tlw Student Senate's plans to extend a weleome lettPr to Bradley on behalf of the student body were revnaled, naturally we had an interest in the letter's eon­tent. As perhaps tlw largest student club on campus with roughly 500 members. we fdt obligated to inform the Student Senate of the opinion of a significant percentage of tlw student body on this issue. 
Af'ter lwing assured that our eomments would be wel­eomml. we attendml the Stwhmt Senatn meeting on the night of Snptmnbnr 30 with tho purpose of contributing to dialogue about tlw content of the letter. We soon discov­Pred that our contribution was not weleome. We were shocked and appalled that a group of studnnts so con­enrrH•d with extending a wnkomn to Bill Bradley would bn so shanwlnssly unwnk.oming to tlwir own pners. 
When our co-prPsident tried to share our opinion (not a radical one, by any means) that our group was not opposed to Bt·adlcy's prCS(HJce hnrn on campus but rathm eon­cnrrwd that the letter pres1~nted an implicit condonement of his starH:n on abortion, slw was harassed for offering lwr stal!mwnt during tlw "questions" period rather than tlH' "debate" period of thn mneting. Apparently, the SerHtte's ronenrn with parlianwntary proendurn did not inrludn a concern for conducting that procedure with any rneasurn of civility. She was critieiznd for calling Senator Bradlny pro-abortion rather than pro-ehoicn and then silenced when slw tried to point out our very legitimate eonwrn that the ](~ttPr writtnn on behalf of "all" Notre Damn sturhmts did nut represent our 500 members. ller point was nnvnr addressed ber.ause she was never even ).{iV(~n tlH~ opportunity to present it. (({emernber, we had bonn told bdon~hand that our eomnHmts would be wel­conwd.) 
Tho Notre Damn/Saint Mary's Hight to Life Club is dis­lwarterwd by the fact that we are now obligat(~d to com­municate not only our concern with former Senator BradlPy, but our concern with tlw conduct of our own stu­dent smHttors. Your treatment of our eo-president's eom­nwnl (slw was rwv(~r able to make mon~ than one) was entin~ly inappropriatn for a student group daiming to rep-· resent your peers. 
Wn nxtend a whole-hearted thank-you to the few sena­tors who provided us with vocal support during what was, for us, nothing short of an ordeal. We arc sorry that your peers were not able to benefit from the dialogue that was im]wrativ(~ to hav(~ taken place in order for them to make a morn aeeuratn assessment of the content of the Bradley lnttPr. They rWV(~r got the chance, because we weren't givm1 tlw chance to talk. 
The officers of Notre Dame/St. Mary's Right to Life, on behalf of our 500 members and other pro-life students on campus October l, 1998 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR Access to Information Vital for True Education 
"They that can gi11e up essential liberty to obtain a little temporary safety deserve neither liberty nor safety. " -Benjamin Franklin 
Yesterday I sat around bantering with a girlfriend about the Women's Hesource Center (WRC). In faet I have sat in the midst of many debates lately, listening to pro-choiee and pro-life arguments come alive through the voice of students, through the voicn of my eohorts. I admit, I am not particularly captivated by either side; I am, however, mesmerized by the recent stipulations of Student Activities for ways we will see, hear. talk of and experience these sides. The issue is no longer about pregnaney, abortion or adoption. It is about education. 
The WRC is currently on probation, and "May eon­tinue to exist as a recognized student organization subjm:t" to a few conditions, namely "The WRC may not possess or distribute material which directly pro­motes or is value-neutral on the issue of abortion." Student Activities justification for this action was a citation from du Lae which states: "No student organi­zation or member of any organization on behalf of the organization. may nncourage or participate in any activity which contravenes the mission of the University or the moral l!mchings of the Catholic Church." 
The WRC acknowledges that there is not a place in a Catholic institution for referrals of any type, to abortion or abortion-related services; the center has heed­ed this stipulation and will remind all members that any such practice is unacceptable. This has always been the WHC's policy. 
Having said that, it is impera­tivc to examine why the partie­ulars laid out by Student Aetivities are so paramount to the Notre Dame community. One student told me that it is Notre Dame's right to censor information, and that once we agree to eome here, the institu­tion can decide what will sur­tinned by ND), or an advisor with us to fadlitate and guide the discussion; we arc not to be left alone to dis­cuss or explore. The student is not an adult, responsi­ble or trustworthy. 
My father is a graduate of Notn~ Dame and when he gave me words of his experience here, he said that some of his most profound and nwaningful tim(~S W(~rn when he was sitting on some steps or a porch with other students discussing, probing into and debating issues. lie said that this, above all else, hdped to shape his values and morals. and to create the bas(~ he still lives by today. This development was born in long conversations, and it was born by students. 
As I said at the start, I have bmm a part of many dis­cussions recently regarding the WHC and other rdat­ed issues; I have listened to p(~ople artieulate and hammer out their beliefs, and I am doing the sanw, eaeh and everyday, beeause I eanw for an ndur.ation. 
If Notrn Dame, as Malloy said, is in fact committed to truth seeking, it must b(~ manifestml. As Catriona Wilkie said in her letter to The Observer: "In fad, I have spent a great deal of time pmviding unbiased and scientifically accurat(~ inlimnation on abortion to those around me, as I believe that an honest and brave examination of the facts will inevitably lead th(~ intelligent individual to the pro-life position." Student Ar:tivities has decided that it is necessary to remov(~ all 
other sides of the debate, so that when students are analyzing, discussing, learning, they sef~ only om1 side. I low is that intnllee­"'-tual inquiry or thoughtful examina­tion? I low is it nducation'? Student Activities noted as well that: "Our policy of tying n~cog­nition standards for studm1t 
groups to eonsistnncy with Church teaching makes Notrn Danw, different from state 
univcrslth:s and many private institutions," and I would eer­tainly not argue with that point. But I want to know 
what exctt:tly a Notre Damn education means? As Professor Ed Manier pointed 

round us, what we'll see and per-, . \).c~~::::!==::::::...J~~~1:7 out "The University could not haps think. In Webster's Dictionary . maintain its status as a nationally
10 
a censor is defined as: "One with the ~St ...,)l!!@~iiiB2'21i!!~~~ ranked research University if it 
power to suppress anything obj£'.cii<~R-~ able (as in printed material)." Any such praetice is detrimental, and cuts to the very heart of any intellectual eommunity. 
Monk Malloy said to the South Bend Tribune (Sept. 9): "But if we are to be a plaee where the Church does its thinking, if, as a university, we are committed to truth-seeking and persuasion, then we must always provide an open intnlleetual forum." Unfortunately, in the ease of the WRC, aetions speak louder than words; the WHC, robbed of any material that goes counter-catholic tnaehing, is no longer an open forum. 
Student activities acknowledged this in saying, "It is important to note that there are many other fora with­in the University-libraries, speakers, conferences and classes-to research, study, and diseuss Church teach­ing on abortion and other issues." 
It is thus essential to examine why the WRC fails to qualify as a suitable, necessary forum. What better place eould there be to discuss an issue central to all womens' lives, and ultimately humanity at large, than at the one existing location for, by and with women? ln what other environment do female authors and imagery abound? What other forum's heart, and rea­son lin· existence is women? What other forum is available to all women, organized for and around their creativity, passion, curiosity and determination? I am a senior and I have yet to see this manifested in any other context. 
The WBC needs to be and stay an open form; it needs to be and stay an environment whose very pur­pose is to delve into the diverse perspectives and multi-dimensions of women. In the single, one envi­ronment on campus that is to be inclusive, open to and eandid with women, eensorship of any type can not be tolerated; there is simply too much at stake. For what will be next? No morn essays on homosexuality. No more health related information about birth control. No more information on capital punishment, no more pieces on divorce, and certainly no documentation of evolution. This can not be a burning of the books, an elimination of viewpoints in the hopes that they won't exist. No academic institution, Catholic or otherwise, can afford to lessen the possibility of genuine, thought­ful, involved inquiry. 
Furthermore, indirectly by stating there are "other fora," Student Activities is insinuating that students do not constitute an acceptable, capable, competent forum. There must be a professor, a speaker (sane-denied its faculty the opportunity to 
discuss the pros and eons of 'activities 
contrary to the moral teachings of the 
Catholic Church."' 
Not only is this true for the faeulty, but what of thn student'? IIow can I compare, debate and analyze with a Berkeley or Georgetown gradual!~ when my univer­sity has hidden information and banrwd material from me and censornd the images I eonsume? IIow ean I bn expect(~d to make any sound judgnmnnt basnd on such limitnd exposure? If Notm Dame wants to mnploy sueh egregious practicns, otlwr univnrsitins must know exactly what a Notre Danw education means: a lot less. llow can ND grads stand firm on any issun when they leave this eampus, if they havn not been exposnd to all sides of tlw issue, to all relevant infor­mation? More importantly. how can aND grad (~xpect to make future decisions that require integrity and morality, if they do not first and formnost learn to think for themselves? 
I certainly did not come to Notrn Damn for any type of indoctrination; I came so I could think, explorn pm·­ceptions, and utilize invaluabln rnsourcns. ND will do me a great injustice, not to mention all the studnnts beli1re and after, if it attempts to hide behind Catholic doctrine. Twain said: "I have never lnt my schooling intnrfern with my education;" Notrn Dame r.an dwosn to be a sehool or an education, but Catholic mlucation must not indude indoctrination, censorship or dogma of any form. Education must be a wholehnart('(], rriti­eal. indusive inquiry into all maims of human ex is­tence, even the most controversial, complicatnd oJHlS. 
Students are the very reason this institution exists, without them, thorn is nothing. Student forums ean not be undermined, underestimated or cnnsornd. We must have all kinds of information, long, invo)wd debates. and many questions, and wn must be frnP to ask them. I believe we, students, constitute orw of tlw cardinal fora of ND, and we must b(~ given tlw frnn­dom and the trust to explore on our own. 
If thn Women's Hesouree Center. as a cultivator or communication, can not provide inli1rmation on all sides or issues in womens lives, the student li11·um is not only suppressed, but it is actually meaninglnss. Ultimately, if the student forum is lost, Notre Dame will exist only in Name, not in Spirit. 
Susan Barclay 
Senior, Lyons Hall 
Ocrobcr 6, 1998 



pagel2---------------------------------------------------OBSERVER --------------------------Tuesday, October 6, 1998 
Ll FE 


While graduate students may have relationship with their library cubicl 

By JOELLE FARMER While Petron notices that philosophy students do not do the bar scene as Scene Wrirer much as law students, MBA student, Scott James, disagreed. "There is Coach's during the week. But, we're old. When the weekend 
You see them all the time. They are older, more scarce and usually hanging comes we go to Chicago," he said. out at Club 23, Senior Bar, Borders or the library. They are the graduate stu-Psychology graduate student, Trey Hill, said that he goes out to Coach's and dents. Corby's and has been seen at Heartland. Yet he prefers 
With graduate housing regulations a bit more relaxed then the Latin Dance nights at the Landing on Thursdays as those of the dorms, many graduate students hang out at people's an alternative to the traditional Notre Dame scene. houses. 'BUT WE ALL GO TO THE But do graduate students do more than drink? 
"It seems like they (grad students) hang out at each other's GAMES. WE CHEER No. places and have barbecues or quaint kinds of dinners," said Kira If they are not to be found at Club or Coach's, it is Lodge, a second year law student and Assistant Rector of Welsh LOUDLY. WE GET INVOLVED IN likely that they can be found at Borders or Barnes and 
Family llall. THE MARSHMALLOW FlGHTS.' Noble sipping on a cup of coffee. You rarely see them at Corby's. Every once in a while one will "I like to take some of my less intense reading to venture into lleartland. Borders, get a cup of coffee and sit in a big, over-stuffed Where do the graduate students hang out? K!RA LODGE chair for a change in environment," Pctron ,said. "As a rule, law students go to Senior Bar on Wednesdays. Other SECOND YEAR LAW STUDENT "l don't really do the bar scene so much. I pretty than that, it is Club 23," said David Petron. who is simultaneously much go to Borders or Barnes and Noble where I can sit earning his law degree and a Ph.D. in philosophy, and actually talk to somebody," Bridget Green, a mas-Petron added, however, that law students spend a great deal of ter's student in Spanish, said. their free time studying. On-campus, graduate students can often be found 
"On Friday or Saturday nights a lot of people will work until 10 or llp.m. hanging out in Waddick's or LaFortune hanging out. The law students, how­and then go out. That way we feel like we accomplished something but get to ever, tend to be a bit more exclusive, as possessors of their own library and go out as well," he said. lounge. 
As an Assistant Rector, Lodge agreed with Petron's observation.. "People pretty much stay in the lounge although people will meander to "I never go out because the time I actually have to myself I need to spend LaFortune or Recker's now that it is open," said Lodge. regrouping or catching up," he said. Then, there are the football games. While undergraduates immerse them-Additional responsibilities also prevent Lodge from leaving his mark on the selves in the world of Kegs n' Eggs, graduate students often have brunches ND social scene. Law student Sean O'Brien concurred. with mimosas, pancakes and eggs. "We're pretty much held up in our cubicles," he said. There are also one or two tailgates that graduate students will hit, but not Petron noticed, however, that the philosophy students do not venture out as in the same manner that undergraduates pursue them. Despite their lack of much as the law students. pre-game celebration, however, Lodge defended his fellow graduate students. "More of them are married. Every once in awhile I see some of them at "But we all go to the games. We cheer loudly. We get involved in the marsh-Senior Bar but they usually just have dinner parties," he said. mallow fights," he said. 





c s 

OTHE

Tuesday, October 6, 1998 ---------------page 13
BSERVER 


E 

ore dinner parties and a closer they still know how to have fun. 
•

HOW DO GRADUATE STUDENTS SPEND THEIR DAYS? 

,.. 
Left: Graduate student Michael Biscoglio, a doctoral candidate in physical chemistry, is used to hours in the lab. Top Right: Law students Kristina Oven and Dan Esrey escape studying by playing in the snow. Bottom Right: Law students Kristina Oven, Liz Markey, Michelle Mack, and Jean Seidler enjoy some late night snacks. 
Left Photo by The Observer/Patrick Quigley Right Photos Courtesy of Kristina Oven 
-

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 1998 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish squad shows glimpses of teams past 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame was dominating Stanford and the student sec­tion seemed outright joyous. Everyone was having a good time. 
Underclassmen and seniors alike were yelling the cheers, dancing their own version of the jig. dodging flying fish, and generally living the football experience we expected more of during our four years at Notre Dame. 
took the opportunity to glanee at my family's season ticket seats across the stadium and remember how much I longed to be exactly where I was when I was younger. 
It was 1988 andNotre Dame was experiencing one of the greatest football seasons ever. 
Every kid from South Bend wanted to be a Notre Dame stu­dent that year. No one knew how good Notre Dame really­was so every game was impor­tant. 
Notre Dame was the under­dog, no matter the point spread, and played every gamewith heart and intensity. Chris Zorich, Pat Terrell, Steve Belles, Mark Green, Tony Rice seemed to be the perfect Notre Dame football players. If any­one sat down and wrote a script of the perfect football season, 1988 would be the model. 
Unfortunately. 1988 spoiled the Notre Dame faithful. Now we expected every season to be so perfect. No longer the underdogs, we were expected to win and questions were raised when we didn't cover the point spread. 
Notre Dame would only lose eight games from 89-93 but the sheer joy of an unexpected magical season was lost. 
Things have gone from bad to worse in the last few years. The Irish have put together some seasons we would rather forget and some players have walked this campus we would rather re-think recruiting. 
With pressure to recruit a top five class every year (note that the 1988 team was not highly touted) the focus went from 'Notre Dame Men' to the best athletes, whether they fit the mold of the Notre Dame athlete or not. 

From the list of 1988 players above 1988, ponder how many would be recruited to play today. 
Tony Rice, one of the greatest quarterbacks in ND history and a great representative of the university, would not be looked at because he was a proposi­tion 48 player. 
Chris Zorieh would be too small and too slow. Wes Pritchett and Ned Bolcar, along with 1988 All-American Frank Stams, would also fall under the 'too slow' category. 
Those that did not fit the 'Notre Dame Man' criteria have left scars on the program. The most glaring example being the Dunbarites who have left a legacy on this campus that will never be completely washed away. 
All the actions the players who were associated with Kim 
Dunbar undertook cannot be excused. 
Many of the events would have resulted in disciplinary action on a normal student under the Parietal system and others betray common sense. 
Rev. John Cavanaugh gave a quote in 1949 that seems out­of-place with the present per­ception of these Notre Dame football players: "We shall always want Notre Dame men to play to win so long as there is a Notre Dame ... to win cleanly according to the rules ... because Notre Dame men are reared here on campus in this spirit and because they exemplify this spirit all over the world, they are the nnvy of the nation." 
Fortunately there are a great many football players on the team who have a Jove for this university and fit every descrip­tion of a 'Notre Dame Man.' 
These are the men who ours cheers arc directed at on Saturday's. 
Someday they might leave a legacy as great as Rice, Zorich, Terrell, and Green. 
The reason 1988 flashnd in my head on Saturday was that this 1998 team shows glimpses of that promise. 
The promise Rev. Cavanaugh spoke of, and the promise writer Charles Phillips penned in 1924: " ... The knowledge that America's acclaimed champions of the gridiron are the representatives of an ideal that works, and will work for all time to come, like a strong leaven in our national soul." 
If any of these words seem out of place, if you laugh these ideals off because they are older than you and I. if you cannot take this idea of a 'Notre Damn Man' snriously, thnn all hope for excellence is lost. 
ThP Notrn Dame spirit is lost. 
If you agree with these senti­ments. then you are the person I want to cheer with on Saturday. You are the person all those little kids want to be when they glance with envy across the stadium. 
Thanks Guys! 

• SAINT MARY's GOlF 
Belles' golfers finish fourth in match 
By DANA KIDNEY . Sports Writer  are taken and." Keleher said, "It's also really tough  girls need to stay focused and hold onto their concen­ one match, our standings overall could definitely  
to play in weather like  we  tration."  improve to third or better."  
The Saint Mary's College  had."  Another  Keleher also has  some  
Belles finished with  a  total  with  problem  personal goals she would  
score  of  424  strokes.  f  a  I  l  t  h  a  t  like to  work  on  before thn  
putting them in fourth place yesterday's match  upon us, Thomas­ 'IT WAS A TOUGH MATCH. IT  Thomas­Pekarek  next match. "I'd like  to  play  more  
and  fourth  place  in  the  Pekarek  POURED RAIN THROUGH  is  con­ consistently," Keleher com­ 
overall standings. "It was a tough match,"  agrees t h a t  SEVERAL HOLES, BUT WE AN­ cerned with is  mented. "I want every part of my game-driving, chip­ 
commented coach Teresa  adjust­ ISHED FOURTH.'  the  con­ ping, and putting-to be on."  
Thomas-Pekarek after yes­ ments  sistency  Thomas-Pekarek has  a  
terday's outing. "It poured rain through several holes, but we finished fourth."  need to be made to acorn­ TERESA THOMAS-PEKAREK SAINT MARY'S GOLF COACH  of the team as a whole.  few goals for the team as a whole to work towards before the next match as  
Meghan Keleher came  up  mod ate  W  e  well.  
with the best score, shoot­ t  h  e  h  a  v  e  ''I'd like them all to work  
ing a 96.  chang­ managed  on  their short game and  
Behind her for the Belles  i  n  g  to  all  their course management,"  
was  Mary Claire Hathaway  weather.  break  100 individually  said  Thomas-Pekarek.  
with a score of 102.  "It's  very  difficult  to  throughout the season thus  "These  are  both key ele­ 
"We  really missed  our  remain  constant  in  bad  far, but we need to do it all  ments to work  on  in order  
two  absent players today,  weather,"  commented  at once," she said. "If the  to  place  higher  in  our  
since the best four  scores  Thomas-Pekarek, "but the  girls could all break 100 at  matches to come."  

See tomorrow's Observer for the rest of last week-end's inter­hall football coverage. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. w 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SPRING BREAK '99! BABYSITIER NEEDED AFTER-Cancun'Nassau' Jamaica'Mazatlan NOONS-Christian
NOTICES 

Acapulco'Bahamas Cruise family/Granger/near UP mall/11 
Florida'South Padre year oldfTime for studying/must THE COPY SHOP Travel Free and make lots of have car/no smoking/Can be flexi-LaFortune Student Center Cashi.Top reps are offered full-time ble with time/days.$5.00/hr/243­We're Open A Loti!! staff jobs. Lowest price 1228 after 6 
TICKETMART Inc  Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU  
FOR SALE  BUY-SELL-TRADE  tickets. Please call 908-722· 7901 .  
Notre Dame Football Tickets  
258-1111  ND MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S·  
PREPAID PHONE CARDS  No student tickets please  PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568  
198 MIN. $20  x2242  

CALL 258-4805 
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Guaranteed.Call now for de.tails! FOR SALE 2 for Army & Baylor Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm www.classtravel.com Beautiful brass bed FOOTBALL TICKETS call Steve@ 901-763-7100, x4302
FOR RENT 
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm 800/838-6411 queen size 271-9412 Sun: Noon -Midnight with orthopedic mattress set and SPRINGBREAK 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. deluxe frame. WANTED FOR SALE:4 ARMY TIX-CALL 
When you need copies. we're open! Cancun ,Florida, Etc. Best NEAR CAMPUS. New. never used.still in plas-ND FOOTBALL TICKETS (516)269-3426 ASAP-BEST Hotels,Parties,Prices.Book Early AVAIL. NOW tic.$225 219-862-2082 271-1526 OFFER and Save!!Earn Money + Free GILLIS PROPERTIES. Trips!Campus Reps/Organizations 272-6551 JVC VHS camcorder with LCD ND Ftbl. tix 
Early Spring Break Specials! Wanted. color monitor. BUY-SELL PERSONAL Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days Inter-Campus Programs That Pretty Place, Bed and Hardly used.$450 obo 674-7645 $279'1ncludes most meals! 1-800-327-6013 www.icpt.com Breakfast Inn has space available 284-4127 DRUMMER WANTED to work on Awesome for football/parent wknds. ND Football-Buy-Sell. professional project. Work will be 
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Now Hiring NEW RESTAURANT/ 5 Rooms with private baths$80-88 ESCORT. LOW MILEAGE Seasonal and Individual Game published on a CD in early '99. Florida!Cancun & Jamaica WINE BAR $115 Middlebury,30 miles from Good Condition Tickets. Serious musicians only, please. Air,Hotei.Meals &Parties The Vine cA.mpus.Toll Road,Exit #107 $1200233-7297 After 6PM GA-only Contact Mike at 243-1696 $339!Panama City Room With 122 S Michigan St 1-800-418-9487. 674-7645 Kitchen,? Free Parties South Bend, IN If anyone touches my computer 
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen (next to the Football Hall of Fame) ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 91 GEO Metro. ND Football Tickets Needed. while I am gone, I will send Glass $14911998 BBB Award Winner! Know a little about wine? ND/SMC EVENTS. 57K on engine/tranny! AM 232-2378 after you and you know that it will springbreaktravel.com Want to learn a lot about wine? VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. New paint, frt brakes, PM 288-2726 not be a pretty sight. 1-800-678-6386 Come apply as a server or bar-243-0658. rotors, tuneup, cleaning. 
tender. $3000. ND FOOTBALL TIX Jon the Soccer Player -when are Want to join an exciting new busi-BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY i John: 289-7992W, FOR SALE you going to where those braids to
WANTED 

ness and be a part of our team? http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg AM 232-2378 class? Please apply within tor all positions: 219-291-7153. PM 288-2726 ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... servers, bartenders, cooks & 
-
[.::~TICKETS My car has been stolen! has any­
"TAKE 2" bussers. THE PRIMROSE PATH Need LSU tix 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 Mon-Fri 9 to 5. BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED 289-2918 one seen it? SALES and ... EARN $$$$. Now interviewing. 15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS DO YOU NEED AN ARMY GA? Jamaica.Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL Call Brian at 243-2623 Always buying and selling N D foot-
If I have to sleep on the floor one

Padre!Lowest prices! WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC Before Thursday. ball tickets. 289-8048 Free Meals,Parties & Drinks. WANTED: Someone to clean in a INN, FULL ELEGANT BREAK-
more night Sean is going to be in 

two bedroom apt. (Turtle Creek) FASTS.4 GUEST I NEED GA TIXS Need Army G.A.s big trouble "limited Offer". 1-800-426-771 o once a week. Will pay $40 per ROOMS.AJC,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS ALL HOME GAMES. -not in student section· www.sunsplashtours.com cleaning. contact: Mike, Pat, Chad REQUIRED.$99.00 Call616·695· Call Stephanie @273-0893 What did you think of that African 
at 243·1696. 6321 272-6306 test? 
+Campus Ministry This Week+ 


OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hcshurgh Library: 631-7800 
112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Wch Page: http://www.nd.edu/-min­istry 
Wednesday, October 7, 7:00-8:30 pm, Log Chapel Part 3 of a Seven-Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Knowledge by Dean Carolyn Woo 
Friday-Saturday, October 9-10, Five Pines 
Ill I' i' 

Women's Choir Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, October 9-10, St . .Joe Hall Freshman Retreat #18 for Residents of Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lewis, McGlinn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin and Zahm 
Friday-Sunday, October 9-11, Fatima Retreat Center Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #52 
Saturday-Sunday, October 10-11, Basilica of the Sacred Heart Commissioning Rite for Liturgical Ministers at all Masses 
All those exercising the ministries of lector, acolyte, music and usher, as well as all eucharistic ministers, are urged to attend the Mass at which you will normally be a minister so that you tnay be formally commissioned. 
·­

Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
.... 






page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 1998 
-· 
• INTERHAll fOOTBAll 
Zahm, Stanford pull out close victories 
By WES JACOBS 
Sporrs Writer 
On a chilly autumn afternoon, two teams came away with closP victories, while two other teams went home disgruntled. 
Zahm 3, Fisher 0 

With 15 seconds left on the dock, the Fisher interhall foot­ball team was left with little hope. 
After holding the heavily favored Zahm Rabid Bats scoreless through nearly the entire game, the ball rested on Fisher's 1-yard line. The only hope was to call timeout to ice Zahm's rock-sol'il:l kicker, Brian Zant. 
Despite the efforts of the inspired Fisher team, Zant came up big and converted the chip shot. resulting in a narrow Zahm victory. 
"He's a great kicker, and this will certainly give him confi­dence for games in the postsea­son," Zahm captain Colton King said. 
Despite the end-of-game heroics, things didn't go nearly as smoothly for the Bats in the first half. 
Penalties and mental mis­takes slowed down the offense, and allowed Fisher to remain in the game. 
"Mentally, we weren't pre­pared," said King. "We didn't do much to help ourselves out on offense, but give all the cred­it to Fisher. They played well." 
After a shaky first half, Zahm quarterback Steve Lickus began to find his rhythm. On the even­tual game-winning drive, he completed two big-gainer pass­es to wide receivers Chris Bystedt and Mike Bailey, enabling the offense to quickly move downfield. 
As for Fisher, the Green Wave is now forced to win its last two games to have any chance of advancing to the postseason. 
"Right now we're just giving up one bad drive on defense and coming up empty on offense," said Fisher co-captain Chris Backus, also referring to their opening day 7-0 loss to 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Domer Run-The annual Domer Run is scheduled for October 10 at 11 a.m. Race begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 mile, 6 mile run and 2 mile walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Register in advance at RecSports. It costs $6. Proceeds benefit the Catherine Peachey Foundation, lr1c; for Breast Cancer Research.. For more information, contact RecSports at 1-6100. 
Stepan Court Scheduling ­Meeting for the 1998-99 acade­mic year will be held Oct. 8 at 
4:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Any organization wishing to reserve time must attend. For more information contact Student Activities at 1-6912. 
Saint Mary'.s Track ­Anyone interested in track and field should attend a meeting today at 8 p.m. in Angela Atheltic Facility on the campus of Saint Mary's College. 
Women's Boxing Novice ­Informational meeting will be held tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Boxing Room (down to the room are located on the opposite wall of the Football office). For more information please call RecS orts at 1·6192. 
Seigfried. "We're in a hole, but we need to keep playing." 
On defense, senior co-captain Greg Regan stepped up, finish­ing with an interception and numerous key tackles. 
"He played as anyone would expect a captain to play," said Backus. 
Next week, Fisher will need to beat Knott, and then finish the season with a win over Keough to advance to the play­offs. 
Zahm, with the win, clinched a playoff spot. If the Bats can upend undefeated Seigfried next week, Zahm will occupy the No. 1 seed in the upcoming tournament. 
Stanford 12, Dillon 10 

Close games are becoming the norm for the Stanford inter~ hall football team. 
After two tight losses, the third week of the season was the charm for the Studs, bring­ing in a hard-fought 12-10 vic­tory over Dillon Hall. 
Stanford fell behind 10-0 early in the first quarter, and desperately needed a boost. 
The team got it, in the form of Bernie Hessley. His second­quarter touchdown fired up the squad and brought Stanford back into the game. 
Late in the fourth quarter, Stanford took the lead and then sealed the victory. To culminate a long drive, quarterback Chris Padjen looked deep to wide receiver Mike Bodart and con­nected on the pass to make the final margin, 12-10. 
Then, with under a minute to go, Andy McBride played hero, intercepting Dillon's last gasp effort, and finalizing the victory. 
"Our offense moved the ball well, but turnovers and field position killed us at the begin­
ning  of  the  game,"  said  
Stanford  captain  Dave  
Chamberlin.  

Despite the early deficit, Stanford was able to make the exciting comeback and get their first win of the season. 
In the final week of the sea­son, Stanford will look to gain a victory to improve its 1-2 record. 
Carroll/St. Ed's team disbanded 
By TED FOX 
Sports Writer 
Sunday marked the third week of the men's interhall football season, but one of the most interesting developments occurred far from the field of play. 
Morrissey, originally slated to battle the team from Carroll/St. Edward's Hall, instead found itself with a forfeit win and a bye week. The reason? The Carroll/St. Edward's team no longer exists. 
Last Tuesday, Morrissey cap­tain Steve Bartlett received a call from Rec Sports saying that the combo team had disbanded. 
Co-captain Tom Nerring of Carroll Hall said a lack of players was a major part of the decision to disband. An injury last week reduced the team's numbers from 20 to 19, one above the minimum required to field a team. 
Another factor was the team's limited success, as it had been outscored by seventy-plus points in its first two games while going 0-2. 
Whatever the case may be, the forfeit gave Morrissey a much needed first win of the season, springing it to 1-2. It now faces Stanford next week, with hopes of a playoff berth still alive. 
Keenan 14, Alumni 6 
Two undefeated heavyweights of the interhall world came out slugging in their third game of the season at Stepan North. 
In the end, the team from Keenan Hall outlasted Alumni 14-6. running its record to 3-0. 
Keenan struck first, blocking a punt and allowing the offense to take over on the Alumni 30-yard line. 
The Keenan offense, led by sophomore quarterback Craig Venvertloh and junior fullback Mike Romachek, took advantage of the situation and notched a touchdown. The conversion failed and the score stood at 6-0. 
The Alumni special teams unit, proving itself equally capable of making big plays, responded by blocking a punt of its own, lead­ing to an Alumni touchdown. The failed conversion kept the score tied at six. 

WE WILL HOLD AN INFORMATION SESSION AT THE CSC MONDAY, OCTOBER 5 & TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6 7:00p.m. 
APOSTOLIC VOLUNTEERS (708) 524-5985 kilnkacy@email.dom.edu maryanop@aol.com W\1\tW.Sinsinawa.org 


The count remained this way until near the end of the contest. 
With 1:20 left to play, Alumni faced a fourth -and -1!) from its own 30-yard line. Senior quar­terback Alex Gese's pass fell incomplete. 
Complicating the situation, the Alumni receiver was called for offensive pass interference, a 15­yard penalty from the line of scrimmage and a loss of down. Keenan now had the ball on the Alumni 20 with a little over one minute to go. 
Once again, the offense took advantage of its field position and scored its second touch­down. The two-point conversion attempt succeeded, and Keenan led 14-6. 
In a game that saw a fair share of inspired defensive 
stands from each team, sopho­more defensive back Nick Costanzo led the Keenan charge. His counterpart was Ariel Castillo of Alumni, who Malartsik described as "the best player on the field for us." 
Alumni now moves into an extended break, as next week's game against Carroll/St. Edward's has been cancelled. The forfeit win pushes the squad into the playoffs, which don't start until after fall break. 
Keenan moves on to play Dillon next week, knowing, in the words of captain Don Min. that the team was "fortunate to win" on Sunday. He said the group needs to focus on execu­tion to stay strong finishing up the regular season and heading into the playofl's. 
HAPP~ 
18TH 
BIBTHDA~, 
J41C4M 
ope It's a Hit! 
Love, Mom, Dad, Brian, Macklin, & Katherine 


• SWIMMING 
Irish race well despite loss to defending champs 


Men's Soccer 
vs. IUPUI 

...

'I'ONIGH'J1 7:30pm 

ree pizza and beverages for the first 200 students! 00 gift certificate andfree bowling night for the dorm with the highest attendance! 
By WES RICIIARDSON 
Sporr., Wrircr 
;\ learning experi1~nc1~. a conli­dl'llt:l' builder, a b1~ndunark fiw 
progn~ss. 
Call it what you will: Friday's seas1111 opmwr against defending national champions Stanford providml nunwrous bnnnfits for thn Irish num's and women's swim teams. 
J>espitn losing to l.lw Cardinal num !4<J-I 02. and to the women I!i0-1 03, tlw llll~nt was a positive nxpPrinncn for both tnarns. WhiiP Stanford snt sevnn pool records and swam to 11 NCAA <:hampionship eonsidnration limns and orw automatic qualify­ing tirnn, tlw Irish realiznd that tlwy wern on thn right path to achieving their season goals. 
'Tiw mnet gives us eonfidenee for tlw rnmainder of the snason hnnwsn we raend wnll against tlw national champions, and tlwy n~spnct1~d us as a tnam," wonwn's assistant eoaeh Krist1m llmtth said. 
"It prnpan~d us to faen tlw n~st of our competition," mnn's eo­captain Chris Fugatn said. "Most p1wpll~ wnnt out there and 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER ''ABROAD'' 
Spring 1999, Fall 1999 & Spring 2000 
INFORMATIONAL MEETING: 
Wednesday, October 7th 
5:00 pm, 138 DeBartolo 
Learn about the newest NO semester "abroad" program: Earth Studies semester at Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Arizona (offered in partnership with Columbia University). Unlike any other program offered to NO students!! 
rae1~d and didn't earn who was next to them. That was very pos­itivn. It shows your tnam is rnady to go and that you'rn not afraid of anyonn." 
Though they struggled through the nHwl, the Irish arn plnctsl~d with their early-season pm-formanees. Freshman Kelly lleeking swam a 58.23 in the 100 backstroke to provide the Notrn Dame women their only win. She then edged out Stanford junior Suzanne Toledo for second place in the 200 backstroke with a time of 2:06.12. 
Sophomore Carrie Nixon acquired two second places in the 50-and 1OO-met1~r freestyle events, while junio'r Allison Newell and sophomore Kristen Van Saun grabbed third places in the 200-meter butterfly and 200 freestyle, respectively. Freshman Allison Lloyd also scored second in the 200-meter breaststroke and third in the I00 breaststroke. 
According to men's head coach Tim Welsh, the Irish men performed better against Stanford than did the 1990 team in Notre Dame's first dual meet. 
against the Cardinals. 
"In terms of how we've pro­gressed, we've grown quite a bit," Welsh said. "I like the aggressiveness with which the 
team swam. It's what we talked about all week long." Senior Scott Zumbach's 
1:54.11 in the 200 fly is a sign of his ability to be very competitive early in the season, according to Welsh. Freshman David Horak improved his lifetime best time in the 200 backstroke to a 1:57.97. 
The Irish distance swimmers also fared well. Touching at 9:47.34, Junior John Lubker matched his best time from last season in the 1000 freestyle. Sophomore James Scott-Browne did likewise in the 500 freestyle finishing with a 4:37.58. 
Stanford's most notable per­formances came from two fresh-
God's
people

need you. 

For more it!f'ormation on the Hol,v Cross one-year Candidate Proxram contact 
Moreau Seminary 

Fr. Jim King. c.s.c Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 

ANSWER~ 
THECALLW

Fr. Bill Wack. c.s.c 
men. Shelly Hipple powemd her way to a 1:59.99 in the 200 but­terlly, automatically qualifying her for the NCM Championship meet in March. Jessica Foschi beat Olympic Champion Janet Evans' pool record in the 500 freestyle with a 4:49.11. 
The Irish now look forward to hosting twelve teams at the annual Notre Dame Helays, to.be held Friday afternoon at Holt's Aquatic Center. 
With a loss to Stanford behind them, the swimmers will go into the meet with confidence. 
"Once we've raced the fastnst people in the country, who is there to be afraid of?" Welsh said. 


~~ 

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 1998 
• VOLlEYBAll 
Netters to take on Redbirds 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Wrirer 
The Fighting Irish vol­leyball team is prepared for a long night against what is traditionally one of its most evenly matched opponents. 
The Irish travel to Normal, Ill., today to take on the Illinois State Redbirds. Each team has defeated the other five times since the first con­test in 1984. 
The Redbirds and Irish have traded victories in recent years, with the past six games taking five matches to determine a winner. 
"We have ..a. pretty long history with th~m," said Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown. "For some reason, the teams really seem to match up well." 
Notre Dame is coming off two wins at home this weekend. It opened up Big East play by defeating Seton Hall and Rutgers. The team is 5-5. but look­ing to edge above the . 500 mark. 
The Irish have been aided by the recent return to the lineup of junior middle blocker Mary Leffers after off-season knee surgery. 
Julie Morgan coaches spread the ball around
They have also moved the Redbirds. Morgan, in well, and I think that's
two freshmen, Kristy 
her 15th season at Illinois what's going to have to
Kreher and Marcie 
State, has compiled an happen if we're going toBomhack. into the starting impressive record of 260-win."
lineup to complement the 112 in that time. "Illinois State has good
play of middle blocker "They will probably ball control. It doesn't
Lindsay Treadwell, setter challenge us at the net," make a lot of errors, andDenise Boylan and outside said Morgan of the Irish. really makes you earnhitter Christi Girton. 
"They are a big team with your points."
"We always have the 
two lefties and a big set­The two teams play at 7same two goals going into ter. We will have to be p.m., kicking off a seven­
a match -to have a 
sharp at the net, both hit­match road tour for the
career-best effort and to 
ting and blocking." Irish.
win the match," said 
Senior outside hitter
Leffers. "Our challenge 
Michelle Kutcher leads
will not be the other team. 
the Redbirds. She is fifth
It's going to be our side of 
in the Illinois State record
the court and how we 
books for career kills.
play. They're not going to 
Other top players are 
•

give up; they're going to 
sophomore middle blocker
push us to the edge. We 
Kendra Haselhorst and
should be prepared for a 
senior setter Marisa
battle." 
Brickley.
Illinois State is 10-3 this 
"We need steady play
season. The Redbirds beat 
from everyone," said
their only ranked oppo­
Brown. "This weekend,
nent, 25th-ranked 
Denise [Boylan] really
Pepperdine, in five games. 

•.WOMEN'S INTERHALL 
Battle of winless tea01s ends in 6-6 tie 
By BRIAN HOBBINS experience than any other team in the Spotts Wrirer league as a result of a postponed matchup. 
· Farler and Welsh Family halls Additionally, McGlinn captain squared off Sunday in women's inter­Sandra Sanchez cited lack of practice hall football, with both squads in a as a reason for the blowout. battle of pride for their first win. "We couldn't get onto the McGlinn 
Welsh, hindered by its lack of num­field," said Sanchez. "We practice b~m~ all season, was hoping for a Monday and Wednesday and there arc s9'p~r~ tnatchup wit~ .1:1: winless Farley games scheduled for Monday and 
Wednesday."

team..· ······•····•·•··
Farley had yet to score this season, Sanchez believes nothing went right but broke through a scoreless draw offensively. late in the first half with solid play "We couldn't move the ball," she from quarterback Jenny Geraci and said. receiver Erica Freeberg. The one shining spot in an otherwise 
Coming off tough early season bleary day for McGlinn was the play of games that featured strong PW and PE cornerback Christa Gray, who provid­
teams, captain Elizabeth Brown was ed solid coverage on her routes and 
·see her offe.Qse "finally kick­several tipped passes. 
Lopking down the barrel of a McGlinn looks to redeem itself when possible 6-0 defeat at hal.ftime, Welsh it meets up with Lewis Hall on captains Stephanie Eden and Katie Wednesday. Rak were looking to regroup. 
Sarah Lett had little trouble answer­Lewis Hall 22, Off Campus 6 ing the call in the second half, as she nabbed an Eden pass to put Welsh on Sunday's final matchup was marked the board. by the most scoring of the day, as 
"nt was] a marked improvement Lewis Hall met up with an Off Campus from previous games," Eden said. team that runs with only eight mem­
Strong defense from both teams' bers. defensive backfields kept the game Captain Jodi Lucena attributes the interesting throughout the second half. 22-6 beating of her Crime to lack of 
Kelly Shannon knocked down some numbers. key passes to keep Farley alive while "It's frustrating with the numbers," \Yelsh's Erica S~iola had three phe­she said. "We are talented and compe­n9D:!:tmal picks in later: play to preserve tent, but we can't keep up play." ~67li tie~ , ·•···· Lucena feels the Crime is really
ir: · 

iN Welsh {0-2-1) sees potential for its strong, but suffers from lack of first win when it meets the Off Campus endurance in the second half. 
'•
team Wednesday, and Farley {0-3-1) "In the first half we're stellar, but in looks to do the same to Off Campus on the second it is harder to pull flags," Sunday. she said. 
A 7·6 halftime score corroborates PW 21, McGlinn 0 Lucena's theory. 
···;,:.·:':·.· .. Lucena worries about 0-4 Off · sunday's middle ID.atchup could Campus' future, citing the rule that not boast the nail biter that the day's allows off-campus athletes to play l'ot· first performance provided, as a their former dorms. powerhouse PW team blew out However, Lewis Hall's future looks McGlinn Hall, 21-0. bright, as they ride in on an emotional 
A 1-2 McGlinn team was wary of the high to meet a dilapidated McGlinn matchup, going in with less game team on Wednesday. 

itilorrissep fflanor 1Letture ~eries 
Proudly Presents: 
"Clinton's Scandal as An 
Wed., Oct. 7 
7:30p.m. 

Institutional Crisis" 
Thurs., Oct. 8 7:30p.m. 
By: 
Fri., Oct. 9 
7:30p.m. 

Peri Arnold 
Sat., Oct. 1 0 

Professor of Government 
7:30p.m. 

Director of Hesburgh Program in Public Service 
Sun., Oct. 11 2:30p.m. 
Playing at 
Washington 
Hall 

Tonight, October 6 
Reserved Seats $9 
7pm
Seniors $8 All Students $6 

Morrissey Chapel 
Tickets are available at LaFortune Student Center Tlc~et Ofll~e. MasterCard and VIsa orders call 631·8128 
Refreshments Will Be Provided 

Tuesday, Octo=-:.::.:_ber.:_:_:_::6, SP=----=0-= 19
19~98--~~____:__:_:_=The--=-=-=Obs-=-=--:..=erver----=-:::• R-=-=--=-TS~------------=::Pag'------e 
Wall Street Forum 

Your opportunity to learn more about: 
•Merrill Lynch •Morgan Stanley Dean Witte-r & Co. •Bank ofAmerica •Salomon Smith Barney •Cigna •BTAlex Brown •Goldman Sachs 
•Robert W. Baird •Summit Partners Venture Capital •Credit Suisse First Boston 

-
•

All Students Welcome! 
-
For more information call: Professor John Affleck-Graves at 631-6370 
' 
I' I 
.-------~ ~------­
Page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 1998 
DEPARTMENT OF THEOLOGY 
PROVOST'S DISTINGUISHED LECTURE SERIES 
BARBARA NEWMAN 
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
TWO LECTURES 
"SHE WHO IS: FEMALE GOD-TALK AND CHRISTIAN MONOTHEISM" 7:30P.M. 
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 6 "INTIMATE PIETIES: HOLY TRINITY AND HOLY FAMILY IN THE LATE MIDDLE AGES" 
4:00P.M. WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7 AUDITORIUM · THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES I -• 
************************************************* 
BROWN BAG LUNCH "HILDEGARD OF BINGEN ON THE PROLOGUE TO THE GOSPEL OF JOHN" WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 7 12NOON READING ROOM, MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE *************************************************** 
-
GENDER STUDIES FORUM 
"WOMANSPIRIT, WOMAN POPE: AN ITALIAN HERESY OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY" 
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8 
• 
12:30 P.M. LIBRARY LOUNGE 
TEXT (LIBER DIVINORUM OPERUM 1.4.105, TRANSLATED) FOR BROWN BAG LUNCH AVAILABLE IN THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT AND MEDIEVAL INSTITUTE. TEXT FOR GENDER STUDIES FORUM AVAILABLE IN GENDER STUDIES OFFICE 


Irish 
continued froni page 24 
Our praetiee times need to be duplieatnd in the meets." 
Tlw women will get two piv­otal wenks to make thnir d1anges. llelp will eorne with thn rnturn of Nicole LaSelle, a loading runnnr who has been sidnlinnd so far this season. 
Alison Klemmer, who fin­islwd 33rd last weekend, is also making a steady eome­haek from injury. 
Thn men wern disappointed with a snc:ond plaen finish behind NC State~ . hut upon further rcwinw. thn loss built tnarn eonlidnnec~ morn than the wins early in the year. 
Sophornorn Hyan Shay exem­pliliml the Irish nfTort by mov­ing up three places in the last :~00 millers to finish seeond ovc~r-all. 
"I got to tho :~oo mntnr mark and the 2nd and 3rd plaee runnnrs wnre right together." Shay said. "I gave it a l"inal kirk and outdistanced them at the cmd" 
Senior Antonio Arcn finished sneond on the team at 13th, flashing a similar burst of speml in the last mile. 
Freshman Luke Watson con­tinued his impressive rookie campaign with another top twenty finish. Watson ran 2:~:53, improving his National Catholic: time of 24:24. while fighting off thll lingering 11fTects of an injury. 
"My race was really sub-par and I was initially disappoint­ed we did not win as a team," Watson said. "But all the run­ners improved from the previ­IHIS week. We practically did twiee as well. Losing the meet 
The ! JhcAn«"llnhn 
The men's cross country team finished second in the Notre Dame Invitational, as the women's team placed fifth overall. 
wasn't a really big deal if you 2K added on, our finishes will look at it that way." be higher." The entire Notre Dame team The Irish have been training finished strong at the end. for lOK the entire year and 
The Notre Dame Invitational will be tested against similar is a eight kilometer race while competition this weekend at the National Championship is the National Championship ten kilometers and the Irish course in Kansas. believe that the last mile is the Steady improvement strongest part of their race. throughout the year has been 
"NC State was stronger than the goal and faster times every expected," said Shay. "but we week indicate that the Irish were closing on them at the are on pace for a stellar finish end of the race. With another to the year. 
Jackson 
continued from page 24 
knew it was'just a bruise." 
The Irish offense appeared to have turned the corner and was poised to lead the team into Tempe; now, it will hinge on the progress of Jackson's shoulder. 
"Hopefully by Wednesday I'II start throwing," Jackson said who remains confident that he'll be at full speed. 
Jackson also said that he would probably wear a "spi­der pad" for extra protection against Arizona State. 
Sun Devils, beware: they could use a break after they losing their third game of the year to Southern Cal, but Jackson said he won't be holding anything back. 
"No, not at all I'm going to still lower the shoulder." Jackson said. "I just told ....Arnaz [Battle] to be ready at any time in case something goes wrong," Jackson said. "But I hope and pray to God nothing will go wrong." 
Indeed, some attention has already shifted to Battle, who has seen some playing time and who will step in if Jackson's prayers aren't answered. 
"I just go through the nor­mal routine," Battle said about being a backup. "As a freshman I have to prepare more than Jarious or Eric [Chappell] to prepare because they've been here and know the offense. I need to study more and take it day by day at practice and try to learn the reads and routes." 
Even though he is a true freshman, Battle is the only other Irish signal-caller on the 
.... 

Atlanta • Boston • Chicago • Dallas • Hong Kong • Houston • London • Los Angeles M(.'nlo Park • M(.'xico City • Moscow • Nl'w York • Paris • San Francisco • Sao Paulo 
www.dl j.com 

Page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 6, 1998 

Heturning seven starters trouble coming away with a and 18 letter-winners from victory.
Soccer 
last season's 15-3-1 squad, The Irish must use this 
IUPUI is an experienced team. game and the next two non­
continued from page 24 
Leading the offensive attack conference games against St. Cox and Walton face a for­will be sophomore forward Mary's College of California midable challenge in IUPUI's and Santa Clara to finn tunc
Thies Hermann, who scored goalie Derrick Newkirk, who 17 goals last season. their attack before closing the held opponents to a mere .56 If the Irish can get up early season in four crucial Big East 
goals per game last season. on IUPUI, they should have no conference match ups. 
~SMC SertiorC~pvo-uiay pv~ ...... . 
~ [f1Jifl1~&&f!O@&l 
Wh0vv.· W~, dct:o-be¥, 7th'at-8:30pwv 

Why: T& ~()-Y\1 N.V. '}( ~bcu:helor}r (dat-~~) 

Free entrance -Door Prizes -Double Date Packages 
Oel!b-e!4'tlfj Tk f}:.d!f_t Rzza.l C3®ru1l 1llli® ®0®®[k ·!Jrn@~[)ru~gg  
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 6:00 & 7:30, 11:00-12:30 the price of your the price of your 21arge 1large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-1177 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted  

... 
• SAINT MARY's SoccER 
Belles victorious, as they shut out Adrian 
By MOLLY MCVOY 
Sports Writer 
Despite the rain, mud and a late start. Saint Mary's brought its record to 2-7-1 on Saturday, defeating Adrian College 4-0. · 
Despite arriving late and hav­ing little time to warm-up. The Belles dominated the entire game. Rain lasted the entire game and the ensuing mud that covered the liPid made condi­tions diflicult. but despite of all this. the Belles pulled together and won. 
Katir Barger, Kristen Priganc, Rachel Egger and Mary K. Hoffman all scored for Saint Mary's, while ,Adrian had only three shots on goal. This was a tribute to Saint Mary's ball con­trol. 
"We didn't give them a chance to have an ofl'ense." said junior midfielder Rachel Egger. 
Control was the theme of the game, as the ball was always at Adrian's goal and in Saint Mary's possession. 
"W~1 shut down their midfield and came out much more aggressive," said freshman for­ward Adrian Kirby. " That made a big difference." 
The Belles came out more mentally together which showed in their passing game. 
"We communicated a lot more with each other than in the past," said senior defender Monica Cernanec. "We were passing really well and were talking a lot more with each other." 
This game continues the upward trend the Saint Mary's soccer team has taken recently. After a very rough start. the Belles are pulling together. They have won two of their last three and tied the third game. 
This turn of events gives the team a more positive outlook for the rest of the season. 
"We're more confident going into our games about what we can do," said Mary K. Hoffman. "We're all-around more spirited in both practice and the games." 
Kirby agreed that Saturday's game lifted the team's spirit and helped morale. 
"We were getting frustrated. Rut we linally put it all together and now we're really excited," shes~d. ' 
The Belles hope to take this attitude with them this week as they play Marion College and Albion College. 
"We hope to come out like last week and dominate in the first five minutes." said Egger. " Those are the most important minutes of the game." 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

lnnsbruck, Austria 
1999-2000 Academic Year 
Have Questions? Missed the first meeting? Want to know more? 
Come to the second informational meeting with Hannelore Weber and returning students 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 4:30p.m. 119 DeBartolo 
Saint Mary's College and the Lilly Fellows Annual Conference present 

Music, the Creative Process and the Path of Enlightenment 
A Lecture/Performance by 
Pianist Lorin Hollander 
Friday, October 9, 1998 at 8 p.m. Moreau Center • O'Laughlin Auditorium 
This event is free and open to the public. For further invormation call (219) 284-4626. 
;igjjtii:)
I t:;.! THE ARTS ~NOTftl' DAlla, IN 


LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT  
LET'S SEE ... HoW 'BouT AN ESPRESSo? I  NoW THAT I THINK ABoUT IT I'VE GoT A LoT oF READING To Do. BETTER MAk'E THAT A DouBLE.  

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 

The term woman presents females as equal to men.
Pardon me, but I'm a tin woman 
DAY: Janet Gaynor, Jenny Lind, Brill Ekland, Carole Lombard

Whereas, the term girl is a derogatory remark implying
not a tin l!irl! 
Happy Birthday: You'll be feeling 
much more energetic this year. You'll

that females are lesser to men. 

I 

HOW At-\ 1 5UPPOSE0 TO GET ALL OF THt-.T DONE? 

~ 
worth Instead, jusl be yourself 
00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22l: joinl 
financial ventures will back(ire 
Untrustworthy individuals will try lo 
take advantage of your good nalure 
Keep a record of all your dealings 
You may need legitimate proof down 
lhe road. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Your 
mate may nol be telling you the 
whole lrulh. Get to the bottom of 
things by going directly lo the source. 
Know exactly whal you're dealing 
with before you seek revenge. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Lis­
ten to your own instincts before mak­
ing a decision. If lou are careful, you can prosper, but i you base your deci­sions on hearsay, you will hl• 
disappointed. 000 
SAGfiTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You will gain allies if you are easygo­ing. Put some time into doing things you enjoy, such as some outdoor activities, a day at your local heallh dub or a long walk with the one you love.OOOOO 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19l: Don't attend functions with !hose who you know can't get along lo­gether. Chances are very good thai you'll gel caughl in the middle of a dispule.OO 
AQUARIUS (]an. 20-Feb. 181: 
Pleasure trips or attending seminars 
will be entertaining and knowledge­able. You will experience new cui· tures that will leave you feeling enlightened and sure of yourself. 
0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Use your childlike nature to relate to th,• youngsters in your life. Be precise tn your communications and you will 
get favorable results. You don'l wanl to be misinterpreted. 000

DILBERT 
HERE'S t-.~011-\ER 
5\-\0VEL FULL Or I\5SI:GNMENT5. 
BILL AMEND 
NO, I'M So•.. SHALL PRETI'I' SuRE WE START "THIRT'I'­Will-I CHArnR TWO-PLE" oNE AND WoRK ISN'T A FoRWARD, oR '13 REAL Woi1D. AND WoRk' BACt<. 
\ 
also be very eager to start new pro­
jects and wilting to take on more than what most people could handle. Your past experiences will come in handy as you proceed to make all your dreams, hopes and wishes turn into a reality. This will not be the time to hesitate, but instead the period in your life to make a difference. Your numbers: 9, II, 19, 28, 37, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's 
time to get active and into self­
improvement. You must come to terms with your situation or your 
pent-up anger will explode. You need to get involved in pliysical activities that will allow negative energy to dissipate. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may find yourself responsible for your relatives. Don't bother trying to 
convince others to do things your 
way. Take car trips, but don't speed. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20l: Keep your opinions to yourself. Check your funds before promising to take 
friends or family out. Children may pose aproblem lor you if you haven'! made plans to keep them busy. 0000 
CANCER (June 21-Ju!y 22): Gel 
involved in interest or humanitarian 
groups. You need to focus on activi­
ties outside of your home environ­
ment. Don't let your mate stop you from doing things that you enjoy. 00 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Travel will be most satisfying. You will meet new lovers while en route. Don't try to win hearts by exaggerating your 
SCOTT ADAMS  
"lDE.NHFY  ALL T~E  • OF INTEREST  
t-.C.RONYMS  THAT HA.VE  NO's  position  on  Ordination  of Women  - 

NEVER BEEN 
o!f<;·common Ground: Peering at the project's possiblli­
USED.'' 

'ties, potential, and problems" is the topic of tonight's presentation at 7:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge. The event is sponsored by the Committee on NO's position on the Ordination of Women. 
Tour of Hospice-Right to Life will tour St. Joseph County Hospice today. Meet at 5 p.m. at Library Circle. Also, students will lead Stations of 
L_~~~~~==~~u_~~~~~aw~ 
the Cross around the lakes, meeting at 9 p.m. at the 
Grotto. Come join us in celebrating life. 
Apostolic Volunteers-will be recruiting students for post-graduate service in a varietv of locations in the U.S. today in the Library Concourse from 1-4 
p.m. They will also have an information session at 7 p.m, at the esc. 
Inner-City Teaching Corps -will have two infor­mation sessions today at 4:30p.m. and 7:30p.m. at the CSC. The program is in Chicago with Catholic elementary schools. 
MEC Festival -will be held today at Heckcrs from 12-1 p.m. and from 4:30-5:30 p.m. The topic will be the women's movement. 
Holy Cross Associates -is holding information sessions at the esc today and tomorrow at 3 p.m. and 4 p.m. Stop by to ask questions, pick up an application, or hear more about post-graduate ser­
vice with HCA. · Class of 2002 Freshman Hegisters -will be dis­tributed beginning today at the Information Desk In the LaFortune Studont Center. 
Wanted: Reporters 
46 Painter of the 55 Name on a Barbizon school European 48 Intimate postage stamp 
and photographers.
51 "Rio Lobo" actor 56 "Bon" time 52 Nevada town 57 Genesis name 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
staff. 

best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Capital of Equatorial Guinea. formerly nQuotethe raven 15 "Gianni Schtcchi," e.g. 16 Couple's pronoun 17ln a fixed manner 18 Long-distance letters 19Aiamo and cottonwood 20 Monty Python show opener 21 Indeed, in Psalms 22 Footnote abbr. 24 Dtsney owns it 
21 Jameswhc originated t~e phrase "Taxation without representation" 
30 Violin1st Ca'llilla 
31 River thatnses in Lake Tana 33 View from Catania 35 Ram 
36lmportanlcaviar source, ..rth "the" 38 Cubism pioneer 
39 Con's preoccupation 41 Terminus 43 Hit the S!I.H:e 44 One who 
prefers cllarges 45 Masters holder, briefly 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
TAMAC"I' '"'"'AS
I S 0 L A T E A N I M A T E R A V l~~~ ~i L I V ED 
A R A N R I A S .E l A D U B S N A D I A S I T 

'e!o~BELA.,O. 
ERAS.ERAT 

T H E-A. B E B E l f-E' V R 0 T p R 0 l EIR A R A ARISE ALOW HURL 
C A R A )!l'jjl~'j( G 0 D A S E l E M E N T E R U D I T E RESENTS SENATES 
,. 


42 How some dividends are distributed 46 Avant-garde film maker Maya-­
47 Travel account 49 Sizable server 50 Hall of Fame 
shortstop 58 Detective story 
pioneer 59 Relief 60 Man-vs.­
machine play 61 Champlain 
discovery 62 K1n of -trix 63 Firefighters. in 
slang 

DOWN 
1 Elective course? 2 Latin word on a cornerstone 3 Minimum-range 
tide 4 Correspond 5 Artemis turned 
him into a stag 6 Repeating 1 Ktnd BOn­
(commensu· U.N. agcy. rate) 29 Two-time U.S. 9 Enfant 
Open champion 32 Military march

10 Della's creator 33 French cake
11 Plans in detail immortalized by12 Place for Marcel Proustballoons 34 Dog star 13 Activity around 37 Beast ot the the block 
genus14 Spin imparter 
Connochaetes 23 Response to 
40 Foreign "grazie" 
correspond­24 Novelist Prevost ents? 


AND 
.. 

PANCAKE BREAKFAST 
St' A~U'· RD::~~z;~;;;~~~~;i~~;~:: C:::::Office 


~ $6.00 IN ADVANCE AND $7.00 DAY OF RACE Rolfs Sports Recreation Center '-' STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 1-6100 • http://www.nd.eduf...recsport 
~. 
t r 
I 
• Volleyball team pre­• Keenan, Stanford,
I 
~ 
pares for tonight's 
Zahm and Morrissey match with Illinois 
were all victorious in State. 
this weekend's interhall 
football games. 

PORTS 
p.J8 
p.J6 

O THE 

• MEN's SOCCER 
Irish look for win in matchup against Metros 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a disappointing Big East Conference loss to Georgetown, the men's soccer team looks to pick up a non­conference win and improve on its 4-2-3 record tonight at 
7:30 p.m. against the Metros of Indiana-University-Purdue­University-Indianapolis. 
Despite IUPUI being a non­conference game, the Irish cannot look past the Metros. Every game is must-win situa­tion if the Irish hope to gain an :\C:\A tournament bid. 
"Considering the way we playpd against Georgetown, \\'e can't afford to look past [IUPUI]," senior co-captain Phil Murphy said. "We have to approach this game just like we approach any other game." 
Senior co-captain Matt Johnson echoed Murphy's sen­timents. 
"We're not going to change 
anything for this game," he said. "We are going to prepare the same way we prepare for a conference game." 
After giving up two goals in the first half against the Hoyas on Saturday afternoon, the Irish will try to get on the board first against the Metros. First-half troubles have been the rule for the Irish this sea­son: They have been outscored nine to eight in the first half, while outscoring opponents seven to one in the second half. 
"We have been scored on first in our last eight games," Johnson said. "We need to score first. If we can score first, we will be able to play more relaxed. We must be ready to go from the opening whistle." 
Much of the responsibility for shutting down the IUPUI offense will fall on the shoul­ders of senior co-captain Phil Murphy and senior goalie Greg Velho, a four-year starter and key field presence for the Irish. 
"Coming out and getting a quick goal is better than giving up a quick goal," Murphy said. "But soccer is a ninety minute game. The game is not won or lost in the first ten minutes, but it is nice not to fall behind early." 
The Irish will also look to freshman Shane Walton and junior Ryan Cox to put the ball in the back of the net early and often. 
Walton is a three-time Big East rookie of the week and the Irish's leading scorer with seven goals, and Cox is the Irish assists leader with six. He scored the lone goal against Georgetown. 
Walton said that although falling behind early is a con­cern, he "will not be changing [hisI playing style." 
see SOCCER I page 22 
• FOOTBAll 
Jackson to rest after shoulder injury 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
The morning after Bob Davie's team got a huge shot in the arm with a dominating triumph over Stanford, Davie learned of another shot in the arm that raises concern. 
Quarterback Jarious Jackson. who had his true coming out party Saturday, reported to the training room to have his bruised right shoulder checked out. Although the injury is not severe, it will require Jackson to take a couple days of rest to allow the bruise to heal. 
Nonetheless, Davie expects Jackson to be ready for the Arizona State game this Saturday. 
The Stanford game proved how important the play of the quarterback is in an explosive and varied Irish offense. 
"The quarterback is always critical because of the many things that we're doing that involve him totally," Davie said Sunday. "Jarious is a key, key, key factor for this football team. That's why we had success against Stanford." 
Jackson worked out on a limited basis with the team Monday, but he mostly just gave his shoulder rest and time to heal. 
"It's going, but I didn't do any throwing today," Jackson said. "I just did a couple of hand-offs and for the most part I tried to jog with it a lit­tle bit but that was about it. 
"It was a little bit painful, It's a lot better than it was," he continued. "Sunday morn­ing I couldn't even lift my arm but it's a lot more mobile 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Jarious Jackson, who led the Irish offense against Stanford, injured his right shoulder in the first quarter of Saturday's game. He will cut back on practice to give the injury time to heal. 
today." wound on the Cardinal to let a said. "But I wasn't worried I 
Jackson said that he noticed bruise bother him. knew because the lower collar some pain sometime during "I felt it hurting during the bone wasn't hurting at all. I the first quarter, but he was game I just never spoke up too busy inflicting a 21-point and said anything," Jackson see JACKSON I page 21 

Notre Dame improves at Invitational 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI Sports Writer 
It was a weekend or posi­tives for the Notre Dame cross country program. 
The Notre Dame Invitational was the second consecutive race on the golf course after the National Catholic Invitational two weeks ago. The highlights were supplied by the men, who finished sec­ond over-all, and junior JoAnna Deeter who won her second consecutive race. 
Deeter ran 16:50, improving her 17:25 time ran only two weeks ago on the same course. While Deeter contin­ued to run well, the women were disappointed in their total performance. The team placed fifth among highly ranked field. its lowest finish of the season. 
Junior Patti Hice was the next Irish runner across the finish line in 22nd place. Her time of 17:27 bested the 18:12 time from the National Catholic. Hice has finished in the top three Irish runners in all the races this season. 
"There were a lot of ranked teams and we wanted to make a statement." Rice said. "Fifth place wasn't what we wanted, but a lot of people ran person­al bests. We just need to take it up a notch." 
"It was not the way we wantl~d to go, we needed to stnp up and beat some peo­ple." Deeter said. "We will make the necessary changes. 
see IRISH I page 21 

at Arizona State vs. IUPUI Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Today, 7:30p.m. 
SPORTS 
Hockey vs. Lake Superior State
ATA 
Friday, 7 p.m. 

at Boston College at Illinois State 
•

Friday, 3 p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 





