
Thursday, Febraury 26, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 100 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Guinier advocates affirmative action, merit system 
Professor believes SATs, LSATs are gender-biased against female students 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
Affirmative action is beneficial to all Americans, and standardized tests such as the SAT and LSAT are not accurate predictors of a student's potential, according to Lani Guinier, professor of law at Harvard University. 
"I believe that democracy is what is at the heart, the stake, of affirmative action," Gurnier stated in the opening remarks of last night's lecture. 
She went on to compare the current struggle regarding affirmative action to the goals of the civil rights movement in the 1960s, saying that the goal of the both movements is to force America to live up to the morals of democracy. 
Guinier cited the fact that the civil rights movement aimed not only to make America a better place for people of color but also for people of other races and women. This, she indicated, is also what affirmative action should attempt to do. 
"We need to use affirmative action to benefit not just those who have been excluded, but to benefit all Americans," Guinier said. 
Guinier also questioned how the country could achieve more democratic citizenship. ·as well as what defines such citizenship. Some suggested answers included being self­sustaining, participating in issues affecting one's life and the opportunity for everyone to realize their potential. 
"These are ways of thinking boldly about the goals of a multiracial society," Guinier said. 
On the issue of policies involving admittance to institu­tions of higher education, Guini~r questioned the goals of admissions. 
"We are admitting and selecting people to do what?" she asked. 
She elaborated by addressing the importance of admit­ting people who are going to go on to be productive citi­zens of a democracy. Guinier also stated that socioeco­nomic status has an impact on admission to institutions as a perceived measure of merit. 
"My objection is that we are using wealth as a proxy for merit but we aren't saying it. It is the hypocrisy that I object to," she said. 
She challenged the importance that is placed on stan-


The Observer/Jo Mikals-Adachi Professor of law Lani Guinier addressed students yesterday, stating her views on both the admissions to and educational set­tings of institutions of higher learning. 
dardized tests, such as the LSAT and SAT in the process of admission institutions of higher education. Guinier described these standardized tests as "quick strategic guessing with less than perfect information." 
Because in many cases admissions committees do not read essays or recommendations of applicants in choosing admittees to law schools, a larger focus is placed on scores. She added that the LSAT cannot be used as an indicator of who will make a contribution to society or graduate from law school, but the creators of the LSAT do say that it will predict the first year grades of a law stu­dent. 
Guini.er went on to cite a study that showed that the 
LSAT only predicts nine percent of first year grades oflaw 
students nationwide. 
"This is what it [the LSAT] predicts for everyone. This is 
what we are calling merit," she said. 
Guinier believes that the SAT is gender biased, particu­
larly on the mathematical portion of the test. Because it is 
see GUINIER I page 4 

• Srum:rn SENATE 

Committee attempts to 
•


revise, reform du Lac 
By TIM LOGAN obstacle [to that relation­News Writer ship]." said Kelly. "It's what gets thrown at students when 
Efforts to make du Lac more they screw up." student-friendly and less dis­While the proposed changes cipline-oriented dominated of will not affect the actual poli­last night's Student Senate cies set forth by the hand­meeting. book, they 
Brendan will shift the Kelly and Jen 
Dovidio, co­'DU LAc IS A BUREAUCRAT-~~e:~~t~~~~ 
chairs of the IC OBSTACLE ... IT'S to put more ad hoc com­emphasis on 
mittee for WHAT GETS THROWN AT STU-· 
students' student rights DENTS WHEN THEY SCREW UP.' roles in the and responsi-University bilities, pre-and on 
sented their BRENDAN KELLY resources plans for a CO-CHAIR, COMM11TEE FOR STUDENT available to restructuring RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES them. of the student T h e handbook to the senate. planned changes include 
The committee hopes to more detailed information on convert du Lac into a tool that student activities, leadership helps students participate opportunities and academic more fully in the Notre Dame resources. community and decrease ten­The committee also hopes sions in the relationship to add Notre Dame's mission between students and the statement, flow charts detail-administration. 
"DuLac is a bureaucratic see SENATE I page 4 


• INSIDE COLUMN 


Me and the 
Leap Year Kid 
When I get in "the mode," there is 
absolutely no stopping me. 
Sometimes I press the accelerator to the 
floor so hard that I experience leg cramps for 
days afterward. It's when 
I catch that first glimpse 
of the downtown skyline, 
when I'm still on U.S. 31. 
that the speed reaches 85 
or 90 mph. 
Indianapolis. Horne. 

I know the streets, the 
houses, the cracks in 


the sidewalk by heart. Allison Koenig 
Upon departing for Associate News Editor 
Saint Mary's almost 
four years ago, I com­

forted myself about the separation with my 
beloved city with the thought that it would be 
only a few short semesters before I returned 
for good. To stay. To work in the downtown 
area. To meet friends in the Broad Hipple 
bistros and pubs. To someday get married in 
my homo parish and raise my children in the 
same, wonderfully diverse and beautiful 
neighborhood in which I grew up. 
I met one person. live weeks into freshman 
year, who challenged almost all of my previ­
ous lifelong expectations. 

Sometime between Saturday night and 
Sunday morning, where February 29 would 
exist if this were a leap year. that person, my 
best friend, will turn 22. Hyan McLean, the 
leap year kid. An extraordinary birthday for 
an exceptional man. 

Ryan has taught me and guided me through 
several lessons during these tumultuous col­
loge years. Amongst the most important: 
EXPLOHE. DHEAM. EXPAND YOUH HORI­
ZONS. 

So, I did. I am. I plan to continue. 
Hyan, who traversed 13 states from south­
ern California to attend college in this god­
forcsaken elimate, knows a lot about risk, 
and even more about trying new things. 
Thanks to Hyan, I have found myself in 
places I had only vague knowledge of, doing 
things I never assumed I would. Eating fish 
tacos in LaJolla. Walking on the Balboa 
Island pier. Listening to Garth Brooks, and 
liking it. Watching the Electric Parade at 
Disneyland. Eating Cuban deli sandwiches in 
Miami. Drinking away my 21st birthday in 
Newport Beach saloons. 

Of course, I doubt Ryan ever anticipated 
being an avid Sushi eater, a fan of the 
Grateful Dead, or sailing on a lake in the 
middle of Indiana. These are the things that I 
was able to introduce to him. 
In collaboration with our friends who come 
from all over the country, there have been a 
plethora of other experiences and trips as 
well. Skiing and snowmobiling in Wisconsin. 
Partying on Chicago's Navy Pier. Hiking the 
Appalaehian Trail in Virginia. Doing slip 'n 
slide across a living room floor at the Little 
500. Bar hopping in Old Town Alexandria, Va. And the latest of our adventures, catch­ing beads at New Orleans' Mardi Gras parades. 
My wish for Hyan's birthday is many more trips, many more new exciting experiences. And selfishly, I'm wishing that he continues to include me as his primary travel compan­ion. . 
Upon graduation, I hope it goes beyond exploring, expanding, and dreaming. I hope it goes beyond the 200-mile radius in which I have always lived. I hope I can work to EMBRACE the countless possibilities. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News.  Accent  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Emmett Malloy  
David Zachry  Graphics  
Tom Enright  Tom Roland  
Allison Koenig  Production  
Sports  Heather Hogan  
Anthony Bianco  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Joe Stark  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday rxcept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associau:J Press. All reproduclion rights arc reserved. 
~-------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 26, 1998 
('>--~~ .... ·. }'


\, ~Outside the Dome 
-""·y-'1:''~\~ . 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 

Report accuses prestigious schools of inflating grades 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA lOS ANGELES 
Henna, not hemp, use increases 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
When Erin Widgcttes, a conservative woman in her 50s, 
greeted her husband at the door, she held out her arm to 
show him her new red heart-shaped tattoo with his name 
written across it. Seymour Widgettes thought his wife had 
gone mad. Midlife crisis? No, mehndi. Mehndi, the Haitian 
word for henna tattoo, is the latest trend in body decora­
tion. Painless, sanitary and inexpensive, mehndi provides 
an alternative to those who are having trouble deciding if 
that fire-breathing dragon tattoo will look as cool at 80 as 
it does at 20. Though henna has long been used in 
Western culture as natural hair dye, it has only recently 
become prevalent in hair salons and tattoo and piercing 
parlors as coloring used to create temporary tattoos on 
the skin. The henna plant (lawsonia inermis) is a small 
shrub grown in the dry, hot climates of Northern Africa 
and Southeast Asia. Henna is not to be confused with the 
hemp plant, which some people enjoy smoking. 
• UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYlVANIA 
University·investments plummet 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 
The month of December spread a bit of "black" holiday cheer to a University budget plagued by red ink, as a $90 million return on investments made up for a $40 million loss in the first five months of fiscal year 1998. The overall $50 million gain constilutes a 5 percent return on invest­ments for the first six months of the 1998 fiscal year, which covers the period from July 1, 1997, until June 30, 1998. By contrast, the University was up by 23 percent at the close of December in 1997, according to Vice President of Finance Bizzo Barrios. During a final Board of Trustees meeting last Friday, Executive Vice President Matt Mirro announced that "unfavorable market condi­tions" produced a $40 million loss in investments during the first six months of fiscal year 1998, compared to a $142 million gain in investments for the same period in 1997. But Barrios explained that the University's December return on investments was not available when Mirro compiled his report. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 26. 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
J 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Cl 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

H L m ISS! [Til 0 . IZJ 8 (1-~ u
35 25 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vflt Assoclltleci Press 
Anaheim 65 42 Cincinatti 62 47 Omaha 50 
30 Austin 68 44 Cleveland 54 42 Panama City 73 
59 Boston 48 36 Detroit 48 42 Philadelphia 60 36
4,~,~4.6.foc8~ ~u 

Buffalo 45 33 Houston 68 46 Salem 48 
30
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 54 42 Jackson 61 41 Youngstown 54 42 
VIS Associated Press GraphicsNet 


• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY 
University cracks down on cheating 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 

Along the way to the Evil House of Cheat, students often lose their money and occasionally any chance of a passing grade. This Web site and several hundreds like it arfl a part of the ever-growing industry of plagiarism on the web. A technological step up from fraternity house essay files, the Internet is a developing resource for high school and college students who wish to download other people's work ranging from completed term papers on photosyn­thesis to essays on Shakespeare. At UC Berkeley, conse­quences for plagiarism include an F on the assignment, an F in the class and a record of the offense on transcripts available to other schools and employers. But even with these harsh punishments, students are still seducnd by purveyors of plagiarized works. In one recent case, two brilliant students in an introductory religious studies class last year knowingly turned in identical papers peddled online. Suffice it to say, they are in big trouble. 
• UNIVERSITY OF WlSCONSIN Newspaper files complaint 
MADISON, Wis. 

The Badger Herald filed a criminal complaint against a state official Monday in response to allegations that she ordered Assembly pages to seize all copies of the student newspaper from the state Capitol. A Capitol staffer and several pages are accusing Sergeant-at-Arms Denise Solie of ordering the confiscation of between 30 and 50 copies of Feb. 18's edition of The Herald. The staff member ·and pages say Solie was upset by an "inappropriate" comment made by former page Jenni Cole-Opitz about Assembly Speaker Scott Jensen, H-Brooklield. Solie has denied the allegations. She did, however, fire the page for her com­ments. Capitol Police Dct. Ed Barden took the complaint and is in the process of investigating whether The Herald, a free newspaper, can be stolen. "My main concern is: can you steal a free newspaper?" Barden said. Mike Hiestand, a lawyer with the Student Press Law center in Arlington, Va., said there is recent legal precedent for sueh a com­plaint. 
graduate school admission has inten­sified." 
Students also might be more apt to contest the grades given to them because "most people come in with a 
4.0 GPA from high school so even a B is tough on some kids," Princeton freshman Kevin Christal told The Times. 
Associate Dean Joyce Heed agreed that grades are mattering more to students now than they used to, and she conceded that "students are more aggressively seeking to do well or turn a grade around." 
Heed suggested that the heightened concern reflects social pressures, that it is "a symptom of stress and eco­nomic issues, especially the problem of getting jobs." To a student, the dif­ference between an A and a B is cru­cial because it is a matter of surviving in the most competitive of societies, she said. 
PHOVIDENCE, H.l. 
The stock market is not the only thing posting record highs these days. Many major universities are feeling the effects of grade inflation, includ­ing Brown, where the percentage of A's given has climbed from 30.2 per­cent in 1986-87 to 40.3 in the last academic year. 
An article appearing on the front page of The New York Times on February 18, detailed the rise of grade inflation at other prestigious schools. 
Although Brown escaped the public­ity, schools like Harvard, Stanford, Columbia, Dartmouth, the University of Pennsylvania and especially Princeton were targeted as havens of grade inflation. 
According to the article, "As and Bs still account for about 80 percent of the grades at Stanford," while at Princeton University "83 percent of 

This tendency toward higher marks is limited mostly to elite and select universities, which "have always been liberal with As and Bs," said the arti­cle.The article goes on to offer several explanations for the rise in grades. 
First, "students these days arc far more concerned about their marks, and more willing to complain about them, because the competition for 
I 

Thursday, February 26, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 I 


'Spirit' series concludes 
• • .n+ ,, ,:: ' ., .... ,

With film diSCUSSIOD 
By ARIANN BUTLER News Writer 
The movie "Higher Learning" provided a con­text for discussions about race and diversity at Saint Mary's College last night. 
Th~ evening was the last event in the month-long series "Spirit of Blackness;» 
The movie dealt with important social issues in the context of a college campus, implying that social aspects of college are just as, if not more, hnpor­tant the classroom experi­ence. 
"Singleton [the producer 
want to fit the stereotYpe ;pf a career father and a stay at hbmi:w mother, w~ donlt waD;t to diverge into ~howe .really are;" she said; i'i'ti•,.,,,,.yf:j[IIH Those .. present al~p addressed differences between students. .. ... ......·.······ 
''We·· are aU distinctbutit'·. should not cause separation between us•.. we.need "ttl learn about other peopl~ and embrace our differ~' ences," Moylan said. 
Junior Marshawria came to a similar 
.. 

of the film] took a slice o.:f•.•:rm:,r·~n·~J·~~c•:st'»ll· America and set it on a col-· lege campus/' said Martha 4'·'~itblth)!bei,t'l Moylan, a member of the Sisters of Nefertiti and a senior at Saint Mary's. 
Discussion topics sparked hy the film included the lack of diversity at Saint Marfs and the effect homogeneity has upon the students. 
"The problem at Saint Mary's is that we expect everyone to be the same," said junior Tysus Jackson. · 
Junior Alia Hawkins con­curred with Jackson's state• ment. 
"Students at Saint Mary's 
Ca~e Fa~ OV\~ EV\vi ~oV\VV\eV\+. 


Please Recycle 
The Obse~ve~. 


Archbishop wins ND award 
Special to The Observer 
The 1998 Notre Dame Award for international humanitarian service will he given to Cardinal Vinko Puljic, the Catholic archbishop of Sarajevo. 
Cardinal Puljic will receive the award and address the Notre Dame community in a ceremony to be announced at a later date. 
"Cardinal Puljic's tireless quest for peace without victory is a timely reminder that fear, hatred, and violence cannot be ingreadients in a truyly Christian witenss," said Notre Dame president Father Edward Malloy in reference to the award. "It is a heartening sign to all nations in a tragic and bloody season." 
The archdiocese over which Cardinal Puljic has presided since 1991 is the largest in Bosnia-Herzegovina, where Catholics made up 18 percent of the population before the Balkan war. 
One measure of the war's ongoing devastation is the deci­mation of the archdiocese, which included 520,000 Catholics when Cardinal Puljic was named archbishop. Only some 125,000 remain. Similarly, of the 830,000 Catholics who lived throughout Bosnia before the "ethnic cleansings," only some 400,000 remain. 
Born jn 1945 to a large farm­ing family in Banja Luka, Cardinal Puljic was ordained a preist in 1970. Since then, he has served as a parish priest in his hometrown, as a spiritual director in a seminary in Zadar and as vice rector of the semi­nary in Sarajevo. 
As Sarajevo's archbishop, he has become widely known as a vigorous ecumenist who collab­orates in peacemaking with a small group of fellow religious leaders in the Muslim, Serbian Orthodox, and Jewish commu­nities. 
Last summer, the group, which includes leaders of the four principal religious commu­nities of the country, formally established itself as the Inter­Religious Council in Bosnia­Herzegovina to develop "p'racti­cal programs of cooperation" in peacemaking and redevlop­ment. 
Internationally recognized as a firm opponent of the ethnic and religious partitioning of his native country, Cardinal Puljic has pleaded with the U.S. gov­ernment and the United Nations for "decisive and credi­ble action" to prevent further fragmentation and violence. Last year, speaking on behalf of the catholic bishops of Bosnia­Herzegovina, he warned that the warring factions' selective interpretations of the Dayton Accords "now serve as the basis for further partition along ethnic and religios lines," and that "unless more is done soon, the partition of Bosnia will be cemented, and the extremists who brought us war will become further entrenched." 

The Notre Dame Award was established in 1992, in celebra­tion of the University's sesqui­centennial, to honor persons "within and without the Catholic Church, citizens of every nation, whose religious faith has quickened learning, whose learning has engendered deeds, and whose deeds give witness to God's kingdom among us." 
The award has been given .previously to Jimmy and Rosalynn Carter; Mother Theresa of Calcutta; Jean Vanier, founder of the interna­tional Arche communities for the mentally handicapped; Helen Suzman, South African anti-apartheid politician; John Hume, peace advocate and leader of Northern Ireland's Social Democratic and Labour Party, and Brother Roger, the founder and prior of the ecu­menical Taize Community in France. 
esc sponsors welfare lectures 
Special to The Observer 
Six scholars and policymak­ers will examine the past, pre­sent and future of welfare laws in a series of lectures that will be held from March 2 through April 22 at the University of Notre Dame. 
Entitled "Welfare to What? Poverty and Policy Reform in America," the lecture series is sponsored by Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns and the South Bend Heritage Foundation. All lectures will be held in Room 124 of the CSC 

9 30 A •
: , gatn, no cover! 
beginning at 4:05 p.m., with the exception of the April 1, lec­ture, which will begin at 7 p.m. 
The series, funded in part by the Jessie Ball duPont Foundation, will begin Monday with a talk titled "Women, Work & Welfare: Consequences for Childrl)n" by Kathleen Mullan Harris, associ­ate professor of sociology and a fellow in the Carolina Population Center at the University of North Carolina. Harris is the author of "Teen Mothers and the Revolving Welfare Door." 

The remaining lectures, all scheduled on Wednesdays, are as follows: 
• 
March 18: "Wisconsin Works: A Blueprint for Welfare Reform?" 

• 
April 1: "Welfare Reform as We Should Have Known It." 

• 
April 8: "Welfare Reform in Indiana: A View from the Capitol." 

• 
April 15: "Welfare Reform and the Prospects for America's Poor." 

• 
April 22: "The Economic Uncertainties of Welfare Reform." 



page 4 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, Febrary 26, 1998 
_Guinier 
continued from page 1 
a timed test, students arc forced to guess. This is a detri­ment to women because they try to reason through the problems and generally score 40 to 50 points lower on the test than men who are more pronn to pun! guessing, Guinier explained. 
c;uinier referred to the scene from "Apollo 13," in which the astronauts say "Houston, we have a problem." to support hnr belief that the SAT and LSAT do not provide accurate judgements of merit. 
"When that astronaut said that, the person at NASA didn't say, 'Get me the person with the highest SAT score,' but said, 'Get me the people with various expertises to solve this problem,"' Guinicr said. 
"If we arc going to be talking about merit and excellence and who will be a productive citizen in this democracy and who should be admitted to these institutimis, then diversi­ty is important," she com­mented, again stressing her belief in the value of merit. 
In closing, Guinicr spoke of the importance of helping peo­ple to succeed. 
"If you give people the opportunity to succeed, they will succeed," she said. "The opportunity to succeed is the strongest predictor of suc­cess." 
Guinier, who did her under­graduate work at Badcliffe College, went on to. graduate from Yale law school. She has served as a professor at New York University, a visiting pro­fessor at Harvard and is cur­rently a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania. 
Guinier will return to Harvard law school in the fall as the first African American Woman as a tenured professor in the law school. 
Law 
continued from page 1 
Guinier also talked about the way in which the profession of law has been and will be chang­ing over the years to come. 
Law, according to the former nominee for U.S. Attorney General, is a profession in which litigation is slowly giviug way to negotiation techniques. 
The game, traditionally played by men in the courtroom, is becoming a last resort in today's world. Listening and problem solving techniques are the skills which will be useful in law in the years to come, she said. 
"This traditional model [of liti­gation] may be dysfunctional to a collaborative effort model," she said. 
GuKJ.ier, who will become a full member of the Harvard Law School faculty this fall, cited sev­eral differences and similarities that she had found between first and third year female law stu­dents at the University of Pennsylvania. 

Upon entering law school, 33 percent of female students stat­ed their desire to work in public service; by their third year, only 10 percent expressed that same desire, she said. At the same time, Guinier found no differ­ence between the percentage of first and third year female stu­dents who participated in class discussion. 
Guinier offered several sug­gestions to female law students who face difficult situations in the classroom. 
The law professor suggested that female students form pacts and alliances to help with prob­lems of confidence and self­esteem. 
As an example, Guinier told a story about a group of female law students who pledged to raise their hands in the class­room when one of the group would offer statements relevant to discourse. 
According to Guinier, women often face a vacuum in the class­room and this type of action supports women's confidence. 
"Don't trust the challenge as one only you can overcome," Guinier stated. "It helps to find people and work through it." 
In the case that students must work with a professor who offers insensitive comments in class, Guinier encouraged stu­dent.'> to approach the professor and state their grievance in a non-threatening manner. 
This may help the professor let down his or her defenses, Guinier said, and allows discus­sion of the comments. If com­ments persist, Guinier suggested writing a journal. 
Guinier implored students not to give up the passion that led them to law school in the first place and told the faculty to fos­ter analytic and rigorous think­ing in their students. 
"The. passion is the most important thing nurtured in stu­dents, and it's with your passion that you'll be great," Guinier said. 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
ing university administration and Student Union offices and lists of pub­lications available to students. 
There was some debate on whether or not to include a student bill of rights in the revised du Lac, which will not contain one. 
Several previous attempts to pass such a bill have been rejected by the Office of Student Affairs. 
"Psychologically, [a bill of rights] is what students are looking for," said Carroll senator Dan Nisbet. 
lie suggested a brief section explicit­ly outlining studnnts' rights, instead of the present system, which details them arbitrarily throughout the book. 
"It would go a long way if students know what they're rights are. The way it is now, you'd have to be a lawyer to read this stuff." 
"The whole book is about our 
rights," said Breen-Phili"ps senator Andrea Kavoosi, a member of the committee. "We shouldn't put together a bill of rights just because we want a bill of rights. We should do it because we want the rights explained, and that's what this document does." 
"A student bill of rights doesn't real­ly get to the heart of the matter. It doesn't create a deeper understanding of the student's role in the university or ease the tensions between the stu­dents and the administration," said Kelly. 
Another suggestion was made by O'Neill senator Rajit Basu, who pro­posed changing the name. 
"Du Lac has a pretty negative image. Maybe if the name was changed, stu­dents would look at it differently." 
"This is a great plan for what DuLac should look like. In time, it will change the way students look at it. The changes arc a step in the right direc­tion," said Keenan senator Matt Mamak, a member of the committee. 
The revision process will last anoth­er 18 months, with any changes being adopted prior to the 1999-2000 acade­mic year. In that time, a committee of students, faculty and administrators will develop any accepted revisions and integrate them into the current document. 
In other Senate news: 
• A resolution calling for better signs in the D2, D6 and C1 parking lots was passed unanimously. The proposed signs will aid students in locating their cars by assigning identifying letters and/or numbers to each row in the lots. 
Discussion with the office of University Security had led to an agreement which simply hinged upon support of the whole senate. 
"It had come to a point where they said, 'Give us a show of support and we'll do it,"' said Matt Szabo, chair of the Besidence Life committee. 
• For much of the meeting, atten­dance hovered around the amount needed for a voting quorum to be established. In order to vote on any resolution, 21 of the 28 senators must be present. 

At some times, there were fewer than that number at the meeting. This is not a new problem, and several meetings this year have not achieved a quorum. 
"We owe it to our constituents and we owe it to the senate to be here for the whole meeting," said Dillon sena­tor Pat Coyle. "This undermines the whole point of the senate." 
• 
The senate unanimously approved two new assistant treasurers for the stud'ent government. The two new treasurers will be Brian Sweet and James Jesse, both sophomores. 

• 
Several amendments to the Student Union constitution were passed in a unanimous vote. 


These additions deal with slight changes in the responsibilities of the senate, the office of the president and the Student Union Board. These amendments were first proposed last week, but were held for minor revi­sions. 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98/99 School Year. Summer Rentals June-August. (Check our summer storage specials) 


@ 
YOU CAN HELP 
Phone: (713) 529-0639 
casa 
Fax: (713) 529-9179 E-mail: casahope@neosoft.com Website: www.neosoft.com/-casahope 
de esperanzo 

Why not help us change lives? 
Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance/Education Awards (An excellent opportunity for anyone interested in MEDICINE, CHILDREN'S ISSUES, EDUCATION, SOCIAL WORK, PSYCHOLOGY, HEALTH CARE or SOCIAL JUSTICE.) 
Casa de Esperanza 
P.O. Box 66581 Houston, TX 77266-6581 


THIRD ANNUAL NOTRE DAME GRADUATE STUDENT GENDER CONFERENCE 
GENDER ACROSS THE DISCIPLINES: RACE AND CULTURE ACROSS SOCIETIES 
Keynote Speaker Patricia Hill Collins 5 p.m. Sunday, March I 
.\peaking on "Reproducing Race, Reproducing Nation: Black Women and the Politics ofMotherhood" 
FEBRUARY 28 TO MARCH 1, 1998 
CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
FOR INFORMATION, CONTACT 
GENDERCONF@GSU .ND.EDU 
SPONSORED BY: NOTRE DAME GRADUATE STUDENT UNION. CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION. THE GRADUATE SCHOOL. DEPARTMENTS OF SOCIOLOGY. ENGLISH. GENDER STUDIES, HISTORY. AFRICAN AMERICAN STUDIES. OFFICE OF THE DEAN OF ARTS AND LETTERS, MULTICULTURAL STUDENT AFFAIRS. AND CENTER FOR.SOCIAL CONCERNS. 

.----~----------~--­

Thursday, February 26, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Cuban parliament re-elects Castro to fifth term 
MEXICO CITY, Mexico 

Elected to a fifth term as president. Fidel Castro vowed socialism in Cuba will outlive him and denounced a U.S. aid proposal for tho island. Castro's seven-hour speech to the opening of a new session of parliament ended shortly after midnight Wednesday. Its marathon length was reminiscent of his speeches in the early years after his 1959 revolution. The 601-member parliament, elected in January. opened its five-year term Tuesday by re-electing Castro and other top members of the Council of State, or Cabinet. Castro was the only presidential candidate, and all the deputies were elected unchallenged. In his wide-ranging speech, Castro, 71. declared Cuba's single-party communist system untouchable and said those who predict a post-Castro transforma­tion are wrong. "To suppose that the death of one individual could liquidate the work of a people ... is really ridiculous," Castro said. llis remarks were reported by the Cuban government's Prensa Latina news agency. monitored in Mexico City. Castro also denounced a proposal before the U.S. Congress to distribute limited aid through 
U.S. 
charitable organization as humiliating. "We accept with dignity that any country wants to help us," he said. "But we are not disposed to play the role of beggars." He ridiculed those who believe that easing the 

U.S. 
embargo of Cuba would help topple socialism by bringing greater contact with Americans. 


Food shortages deepen in North Korea 
BEIJING, China 

North Korea expects to run out of domes­tic food stocks by April, leaving it again dependent on foreign aid that is becoming increasingly difficult to deliver, an aid official said Wednesday. There could also be water shortages because of a mild, snow-free win­ter that came after a severe summer drought, said Kathi Zellweger of the charity Caritas, who returned Tuesday from a trip to North Korea. The lean period is still ahead of us. said Zellweger. the charity's Hong Kong director. From speaking to the local officials. there was a fear that it may be even earlier than April. Delivery of food aid has been hampered by the country's collapsing trans­port system. she said. "Transport is becom­ing a problem due to lack of fuel, lack of vehicles and lack of electricity for the trains." Zellweger said. "It takes a lot to move relief supplies from A to B." Last year, North Kc"Jrea also depleted its grain stocks in the spring, leaving it dependent on donations and purchases from abroad and forcing its people to scavenge for seaweed, grass and anything else that could be eaten. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1766.48

8457.78 
+27.77 

fl 
NYSE: 540.38 +5.56 
S&P 500: Composite

1042.90 Volume: +87.68 +94.10 616,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
LUMI':~:Sr Jlrl:!lfB 2i1!:U6~t;i~ I G61~ I!BIC~ 
POWERCERV CORP  PCRV  56.25  1.250  3.125  
ASHTON TECH GRP  A5TN  40.63  0.813  2.813  
APPLIED INTf.Ll.IG COLONIAL COMI.-Pf  IQIQ CCOI'Il  37.50 35.71  1.125 0.625  4.125 2.375  
EXECUTIVE TELCA  EXTL  33.68  1.031  4.094  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

,f.TRO GLOBAL MED MGMA 49.38 2.469 2.531 DATA SYS NETWORK DSYS 47.50 5.938 6.562 DURA PHARM DURA 37.21 14.188 23.938 NEW FRONTIER-UT5 NOOFU 33.33 1.250 2.500 MILLER INDS{fENN MlR 30.19 3.000 6.938 

Clinton visits tornado victims 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 
Cory Kelly should be among the scores of construction workers descending on tornado-ravaged neighborhoods in central Florida. 
Instead, as President Clinton set out on a helicopter tour of the damaged area Wednesday, Kelly was at an emergency shelter, a blue brace on his broken right shoulder. A tornado that devastat­ed the Ponderosa Park Campground early Monday blew Kelly out of his tent, slamming him into his car. 
Times are tough for Kelly. 46, and his 22-year-old son, Cory Jr., who eke out a living working con­struction. 
"We don't make enough money to do much different from what we were doing. And now we don't even have that," he said. "I haven't the foggiest idea what I'm going to do. You can't work construction with one arm." 
While many of those in the campground were winter residents who can help themselves, Kelly and dozens of neighbors need help to restart their lives. 
Clinton was expected to walk through Ponderosa Park. And he plans to announce a $3 million Labor Department grant for people who temporarily lost their jobs, White House spokesman Joe Lockhart said. 
Two of the four hardest-hit coun­ties -Osceola and Seminole ­
AFP Photo 

estimated damage at $43.5 million. Kissimmee Mayor Frank President Bill Clinton spoke Wednesday to victims of a tornado that devastated their Attkisson said the city's residents trailer park in Kissimmee, Fla. With him are Florida Sen. Bob Graham Governor Lawton Chiles, and U.S. Attorney General Janet Reno. ' 
need low-interest federal loans. Clinton had already set the ground­liest swarm of twisters on record. The left 32 dead in Florida, Louisiana andwork by declaring the region a disas­state said two people were still miss­the Bahamas. The hurricane alsoter area. 

ing today, although Osceola County destroyed or damaged 35,000 homes"I've got four words for the presi­said it had three unaccounted for. and caused $25 billion in losses. 
dent: Show me the money," Attkisson State authorities say 1, 700 buildings Searchers with dogs spent Tuesdaysaid. 

in four counties were damaged, if not combing through debris flung more
Thunderstorms pumped up by El 

destroyed. than a quarter mile from the camp­
Nino spawned six to 10 tornadoes The twisters killed more people ground, with fading hope of finding

with wind up to 210 mph that killed than 1992's Hurricane Andrew, which survivors.

at least 38 people, the state's dead-
AssoCIATED PREss 
MEXICO CITY, Mexico 
With Mexico's most vio" 
lent drugJprd,s un(i!lr indict,. ment and law e.nforcers working more closely together, U.S. ~n~ Mexican ll'lltbod · a,rQ (?!)~pern.tir:tgrather criticiZing each 
.other . the eve of this ,sear's drug certification 
.Process;;:,: .> ·•·· ••.• ·••·• ·•·• •..··· · .r · 
. The two countries are espe<;ially pleaseg With thefr succes$ in, th(3 ana"San .. Diego area; Wh .. ey hay~ turned .nP the heat on the Arellatio.. Felixbrothers, leaders .ofMexicors most.· 
violent dritg gang. ·· 
Attorney General Janet Reno praised ~exican law flnfor nJ .. 'i§'i'officials.
"rues ·•sending·more fugitives back to the United 

--------------~------------~ --------------------------------------------------------­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, February 26, 1998 
U.S. students fall short of foreign peers in math, science 
Associared Press 
WASI IINGTON 
American high school seniors scored below students from most other countries in an internation­al test of math and science, according to results released Tuesday. 
Even those Americans who took tough physics and advanced math courses performed worse than most student<; taking equal­ly rigorous courses elsewhere, according to the Third International Mathematics and Science Study. 
Although students from 21 countries took the test of general math and science knowledge toward the end of the 1994-95 school year, Americans scored below the international average. 
They outperformed only stu­dents from Cyprus and South Africa. Asian countries did not participate in the 12th-grade study. 
A comparison of the high­school elite -those who took physics and advanced mathemat­ics -showed Americans close to the bottom of the 16 nations where those comparisons were made. 
"For some time now, Americans have comforted them­selves when confronted with bad news about their educational sys­tem by believing that our better students can compare with simi­lar students in any country in the 
•IsRAEL 
world," said William H. Schmidt, 
a Michigan State University pro­
fessor and national research 
coordinator for the study. This 
test, he said, "has burst another 
myth. " 
"There is no excuse for this," President Clinton told the National Council of Jewish Women in a speech pushing his proposals to recruit more teach­ers, cut classroom size and target aid to poor city schools. He said adults have failed in their duty to educate the next generation. 
Education Secretary Richard Hiley blamed easy graduation requirements and a lack of teachers with college majors or minors in math and science. 
About half of college-bound seniors have not taken four years of science, and many stop taking math and science after the 1Oth or 11th grade, he said. 
"How can we expect our stu­dent'> to test well in math and sci­ence internationally when we do not even ask them to take chal­lenging courses and rigorous tests throughout their middle and high school careers?" he said, repeating the administration's call for national math and read­ing tests. 
Schmidt said students in other countries begin learning ele­ments of algebra, geometry, physics and chemistry in middle school while science and math teaching in this country often is repetitive and unchallenging. 
Previous versions of the international tests for fourth­and eighth-graders found the rel­ative U.S. performance was stronger in those grades. 
Teaching here usually is done layer-cake fashion, devoted to one subject per year, while the curriculum elsewhere blends dis­ciplines, Schmidt says. 
Some American high schoolers agreed that their preparation could be better. 
"It could have been better if in middle school or in elementary school I got the training I was supposed to be getting," said Kamille Brown, 17, a senior in Miami. 
Brown, visiting Washington, says she'll focus on what she does well, which is writing and analysis. So she's taking American government, econom­ics, honors English, television production and other subjects, but no physics. 
Kristin Schulte, a visiting 16­year-old junior from Wichita, Kan., said she had switched from a Catholic school to a public school in the ninth grade, and repeated much of what she had learned in the eighth. 
"Biology is like a basic review of seventh-or eighth-grade stuff," she said. "I should have gone to something harder." 
She plans to take physics as a senior after her PSAT scores 
Youth flees to Israel, avoids extradition 
Associared Press 
JERUSALEM 
An Israeli judge proposed today that a Maryland murder suspect who fled to Israel return voluntari­ly to the United States to stand trial, but be allowed to serve his sentence in Israel if convicted. 
The suspect, Samuel Sheinbein, faces murder charges in Montgomery County, Maryland, for the September dismemberment killing of 19-year-old Alfrnd Tello, Jr. Sheinbein has been fighting extra­dition. 
His lawyer, David Libai, said the judge's proposal· was reasonable and "worthy of favorable consider­aHem." 
The Isranli Justice Ministry and the Montgomery County state attorney, Hobert Dean, said they would study the proposal. 
If the compromise is accepted by all sides, it could cut short what were expected to be lengthy legal proceedings in Israel. 
Jerusalem District Court Judge Moshe Havid raised the proposal at the start of a hearing today, the second on the extradition dispute. 
The hearings have been closed to the public because Sheinbein is a minor. His lawyer said he has asked to stay in Tel Mond Prison, which has separate cells for minors, rather than be moved to Jerusalem for the hearings. 
Sheinbein has been fighting extradition by invok­ing an Israeli law that says Israeli citizens cannot be extradited to stand trial abroad. He claims he is a citizen because his father has an Israeli passport. 
The Justice Ministry has ruled that Sheinbein can be extradited, arguing there was doubt about Sheinbein's citizenship. 
Libai said today that a compromise was the best way to proceed. 
"It is clear to me that if we are faithful to the law and the facts, the youth cannot be extradited," Libai told reporters. 
"On the other hand, we would not like the impression to be given that under any conditions and at any price, Israel is becoming a haven for criminals. I think an understanding has to be reached between the prosecution and the defense, between the state of Maryland and the state of Israel." 
Test your knowledge 

American high-schoolers' math and science scores are well below those of their counterparts in Western countries. Some blame teaching methods. Afew sample questions: 
~· Mechanical 

2. The figure shows a common plastic bottle filled with water (1 L) with three holes in it, so that the water runs out of the holes. Explain what is wrong with the figure: U.S. average: 41% International average: 70% 
Answers: 


..,... Heat 
1. Ajar of oxygen and a jar of hydrogen gas are at the same temperature. Which of the following has the same value for the molecules of both gases: 
a. 
The average velocity 

b. 
The average momentum 

c. 
The average force 

d. 
The average kinetic energy 


U.S. average: 49% International average: 41% 
Math 
3. Stu wants to wrap some ribbon around a box as shown below and have 25 centimeters left to tie a bow. How long a piece does 
heneed?r#f3cm a.46cm b. 52 em c. 65 em 12 em d. 71 em e. 77cm 
Scm 
U.S. average: 32% International average: 45% 

1. d 2. The pressure will increase wtth depth due to water above, so the water jets will have other paths. 3. e 
j5ource: Third International Mathematics and Science Study, 1994·95 AP 
showed the price for not taking The general math scores of chemistry or physics. U.S. students were significantly 
The international study defined lower than those of students in general math knowledge as the 14 other countries, mostly knowledge needed "to function European, but also including effectively in society." Australia and Canada. 

Tell mom most of what you're up to. 
1-800-COLLECT ® 

Thursday, February 26, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page7 
El Niflo storms damage coast 
Associated Press 
LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. 

Mud oozed down the canyons of this seaside enclave like lumpy choeolate pudding, smashing through homes and sweeping away residents as they scrambled to stay above the hip­high torrent. 
"It was a washing maehine as far as I knew. I was just rocking and rolling, and just desperately crawling my way to the top of wherever I was," Ann Quilter said. 
Quilter and others escaped with tlwir lives as the wall of mud camn thundering toward their Laguna Canyon Road homes early Tuesday. But as the sun rose, rescuers found the body of Glenn Flook, 25, in the mud. A search for more victims was to resume today. 
At least nine people were killed as the season's most pow­erful El Nino storm struek the waterlogged West Coast, killing people from Tijuana, Mexico, to northeastern California. It moved cast Tuesday after leav­ing hundreds homeless, severing roads and rail lines and dosing 35 miles of pristine Los Angeles County shoreline. 
The storm was apparently the last in a series of rigorous weather systems that have repeatedly punished the state since late January, causing more than $475 million in damage and prompting 36 of 58 counties to declare states of emergency. 
As Los Angeles recorded 13.7 inches of rain for the month ­breaking a 114-year record -a flooded Los Angeles County sewer system sent millions of gallons of untreated sewage spilling into Santa Monica Bay. Beaches from Palos Verdes to Malibu were dosed. 
Meanwhile, a rescue effort 
ended sadly early Tuesday when 
the bodies of two California 
Highway Patrol officers were 
Deadly weather 
Storms blamed on El Nino left most of California under a state of emergency 
OCounties under a state of emergency, as declared by the governor of California: 
Alameda 
San Mateo 
Tehama 
Colusa 
Napa 
Santa Barbara Glenn 
Mendocino Sacramento 
Fresno Santa Cruz 
Trinity Butte Calaveras Contra Costa Merced Monterey Santa Clara San Francisco San Joaquin Ventura Humboldt Lake Marin San Luis Obispo Amador Yolo Solano Stanislaus Yuba San Benito Los Angeles Sutter Sonoma (city and county) 
found lodged inside their patrol car, turned upside down in a rain-swollen river in Santa Maria, about 200 miles north of Los Angeles. 
Officers Rick Stovall and Britt Irvine were on their way to help a disabled motorist on fog­shrouded Highway 166 when they were swept away by a tor­rent that had gouged 100 yards out of the two-lane rural high­way. 
"They were out doing what they are supposed to do. They were out helping the public," said patrol Lt. Paul Matthies. 
Three other vehicles, including a jackknifed big rig, were stuck in the mud. Two drivers were rescued by helicopter; crews did not immediately find a third 
AP 
motorist in a submerged pickup. 
Other damage from the storm included an underground drain that burst and carved a sinkhole 65 feet deep, 25 feet wide and 700 feet long at an interstate on­ramp in San Diego. Parts of six beachfront homes in Del Mar were slowly toppling into the sea. 
In Northern California, waves chewed into a cliff beneath eight precariously perched homes in Pacifica, south of San Francisco, and residents remained barred from 500 homes around the ris­ing Clear Lake north of Santa Rosa. 
Two tornadoes -almost unheard-of in Southern California -touched down early Tuesday, ripping up storage 

The Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics Announces 
SIAM Journals Online 
~http://epubs.siam.org 
Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics .lbUU Umvers1ty Clly Science Center .. Ph11aoe1pn1a, rA 1'II U4-L!>M LD-.liSL-':IISUU " ~ax: LD-.liSb-·/':1':1':1 " Slam(!!lslam.org " WWW.Sii1lu.uq; 

URL ACCESSIBLE VIA COMPUTERS IN ND.EDU DOMAIN. AD COURTESY OF MATHEMATICS AND ENGINEERING BRANCHES OF THE LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 
OREGON IDAHO NEVADA 


• 
1 
%• The music you love to hear 

!if.·.:.~-~--~T Hill
f?.:~..... --y
Ill 
friday feb 27 


NO Newcomers 


LETTER 8 
Open for lunch at 3 pm Friday 



page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Thursday, Febrary 26, 1998 


• NORTHERN IRELAND 
Bombs injure postal workers 
Associated Press 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland 
A letter bomb marked "returned to sender" wound­ed four workers yesterday inside Northern Ireland's postal headquarters. 
One postman took the full force of the blast in his stom­ach and arm when he opened the package in hopes of find­ing the sender's address, Royal Mail spokesman Paul Corrigan said. 

The employee was in fair condition at a local hospital. A second man and two women suffered superficial cuts or shock and were able to walk to ambulances. 
No group claimed responsi­bility. 

Catholics who apparently were chosen at random received also two letter bombs last Thursday. 
Both bombs consisted of explosives hidden inside videotape shells, but caused no injuries. One blew up when a man in north Belfast, suspi­cious of the videotape's heavy weight, tossed it into his back yard. 
Yesterday's small explosion on the fifth floor of the post office on Tomb Street, in downtown Belfast, prompted the evacuation of all 1,800 employees. The building is· the central sorting point for all mail within Northern Ireland. 
"We feel extremely vulnera­ble," said John Morgan, a representative for the employ­ees' union. "In this last three wel~ks we've had something 
YoU Can 
like 30 death threats against postmen in certain areas. That's the fifth bomb scare in that building in a week." 
The bombing added to the troubled atmosphere of Northern Ireland's peace negotiations, which continued yesterday. 
Northern Ireland's major Catholic party, the Social Democratic and Labor Party, sent a delegation south to the capital city, Dublin, to meet with Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern. Afterward, party leader John Hume said the Sinn Fein party, an ally of the Irish Republican Army, should get back into the nego­tiations as soon as possible. 
The British and Irish gov­ernments, which cosponsor the talks, have suspended Sinn Fein until March 9 as punishment for two recent killings blamed on the IRA. The IRA's seven-month-old cease-fire is the key condition for the Sinn Fein party's par­ticipation. 
Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams has insisted that he won't return to the talks unless British Prime Minister Tony Blair meets with him first. 
Meanwhile, it remained unclear who was behind recent bombings of mainly Protestant towns. 
Unclaimed car bombs dev­astated the town of Moira last Friday, and more of hte weapons struck Portadown this past Monday. 
Irish police seized a 250­pound drum of explosives late 


Here's a list of some of the companies who have engaged our services 
APNJm. J. Castello 
Tuesday  near  the  Irish  
Republic's border  with  
Northern  Ireland.  They  

believed it was about to be picked up and fitted with a detonator to make another car bomb. 
Police suspect the bombings are the work of Continuity IRA, an anti-British gang opposed to the IRA truce. 
But Ken Maginnis, a nego­tiator for Northern Ireland's largest party and a former British army major, insisted that Continuity was simply "a convenience title for a tight little group within the IRA itself." 
The Ulster Unionist law­maker said Sinn Fein and the IRA opposed the likely out­come of the negotiations: A new reformed government for Northern Ireland in which Protestants and Catholics would share power, not the IRA's goal of a united Ireland. 
"They just can't hack it, and these bombings of Protestant towns show that they're determined to blow us all off the path to agreement," he said. 
• SAUDI ARABIA 

Parents leave newborn septuplets in hospital 
Associated Press 

DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 
Three of the seven babies born to a Saudi woman six weeks ago are ready to go home, but their parents are refusing to take them, their doctor said today. 
"They keep promising but they don't show up," said Hind Moussa, the pediatri­cian who signed the babies' discharge slips Saturday. 
The babies -only the third set of septuplets known to have been born alive ­were born eight weeks pre­mature to Hasna Mohammed Humair, a 40-year-old housewife, on Jan. 14. 
Humair says the unplanned pregnancy occurred while she was tak­ing a fertility drug to regu­late her menstrual cycle, and that she is not yet pre­pared to care for the babies. 
"I haven't bought their cribs, or clothes, or blan­kets, or even a heater for them," she said in a tele­phone interview from her home. 
Humair, who shares a two­bedroom home with her hus­band and six other children, said she'd try to bring home the newborns later this week. 
Moussa said two girls and one boy were in good health and growing well since they'd come out of incuba­tors last week. The remain­ing girl and three other boys were still under supervision. 
He spoke from the hospital in the southern Saudi Arabian city of Abha, where the septuplets were born. 
Humair said her husband, Abdullah Mohammed Ali, traveled to the Saudi capital of Riyadh last week to seek help from Saudi Prince al­Waleed bin Tala!, after whom he'd named one of his sons. But he was unable to meet the prince. 
Ali, 55, is a retired civil defense employee who sup­plements his $1,066 monthly pension by driving a cab. Saudi newspapers have reported he has two other wives and nine other chil­dren. 
Islam allows men up to four wives at a time if they can support them. 
Ali named his other new­born sons after Saudi King Fahd, Defense Minister Prince Sultan, and the gov­ernor of Riyadh, Prince Salman. He has sent them telegrams twice telling them of the septuplets and asking for help, but has not received a reply, llumair said. 
Another set of septuplets was born in Saudi Arabia in September, but only one child lived. In November, American Bobbi McCaughey also gave birth to seven chil­dren, all of whom survived. 
Tell A lot About A Company By The Company It Keeps 
www.dcsys.com Forward Resumes to: recruiting@dcsys.com 

Abbott Laboratories  First Chicago Bank  
Ameritech  IBM  
Andersen Consulting  John Deere  
Arthur Andersen  Kemper Insurance  
AT&T  Microsoft  
Blue Cross Blue Shield  Motorola  
Caterpillar  PowerSoft  
CILCO  Quaker Oats  
CornEd  Sears  
EDS  Sybase  

Meet DC Systems on March 3rd at 7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Foster Room. Refreshments provided • Interviews March 4 &5 




IC IYITEMI U IYITEMI DC IYITEMI U IYITEMI 
SOFTWARE CONSULTING EDUCATION
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT 

Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 
-----------------~-----­

Thursday, February 26, 1998 
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
E. coli surfaces at day care 

Associated Press 
SPOKANE, Wash. 

An E. coli outbreak at a day care center appeared to be contained Tuesday after seven children became ill. 
Health officials said there were no similar outbreaks any­where else in Washington. 
A survey of day care centers throughout the state on Tuesday found no other clus­tnrs of casns, said Dr. Paul StE~pak of the Spokane Hegional Health District. 
"Wn arn the only place we 
· know of where E. coli cases oeeurred in more than usual numbers," Stepak said. "We don't think we're looking at a widespread outbreak." The number of cases of E. coli illnnss remained at seven Tuesday, health officials said. But 15 people who have ties to the downtown YMCA day earn are still being evaluated to sec if they lutve the disease, f.aid Dr. Kim Thorburn of the health district. Of"licials still must contact 20 to 30 more parents, she added. 
Health care workers descended on the day care center Tuesday, interviewing parents and employees, and monitoring the handling of food, diapers and other rou­tine matters to try and find a source for the outbreak. 
No source has been found, Stepak said. 
Thorburn said sanitary con­ditions at the center appeared adequate. 
The most severely stricken child -a toddler just short of 2 years old who .spent a week in the intensive-care unit at a Spokane hospital -was upgraded Tuesday from criti­cal to serious condition. 
The other six children ­ranging in age from 18 months to 6 yeai"s -did not require hospitalization. 
The day care center remained open Tuesday. Five of the seven victims regularly attend the center, which serves 154 children. 
The other two infected youngsters have relatives at the center, though only one's illness has been definitively linked to the day care out­break. 
Symptoms of infection. include abdominal cramps, diarrhea and fever, though some people can carry the dis­ease without showing any symptoms, Thorburn said. 
In extreme cases, the bacte­ria can cause hemolytic ure­mic syndrome, which can lead to. kidney failure and death. 
The E. coli bacteria strain involved appears to be the same one that sickened 600 people and killed four -three in Washington state and one in California -in a 1993 out­break linked to undercooked fast-food hamburgers. 
That ease prompted new federal safeguards intended to protect consumers from taint­ed meat, the most common source of E. coli bacteria. The bacteria can also be spread through contact with the feces of an infected person. 
An October 1996 outbreak of 
E. coli bacteria-related illness, traced to unpasteurized apple juice, killed a 16-month-old Colorado girl and sickened dozens of people in the west­ern United States and Canada. 

,Jack of objectivity and iny . mistakes.'' 
PtrroSt Mo. ut lt wii.s an unlikely love A,Il)al), col).yiCted oj'kil~l1g affMr. Ppwell w&s aborder• ;~WO' brn~her,s i drunken :nune meritally retarded black 
·b:raV,.l was e*ec ..•.. ·... bf: injec­
t titin early today·after arguing ·the didtl':t receive an ade­atij deferis¢ frol11 aiiatthr­ney~~o becam~ Q;is lqyer. ·· Reginald :Powf;lll. 29, was prQ11ounced dea9 a~)2:04 a;ni. at · the Potosi ~or~ectional Cen~~r in. s~uth­e~tMiSsouri, Hisflna1 words yvery ~I l~v~ -qlyf!j.Il)ilY:;· ThE3 case drew national ~ttentionbecq,use .qf the:\ affair between Powell and his ori8i,­
.. palJrialJawyer.Ma.ria.nne'Marxkors, afelationsl:iJp that ... !i'he'said clo11decl. Mt:Judg­meiit. She blamed. herself for . putti)lghiJl1 oi;\ de~th r()w. "Had he had afair trial, .and thej.ury deci-ded to kHl him; th.at would be one tljif\g•" Marxkors:said/"Buti tQok that away from him. ]TQ;ls{Verdict is colqred by my 

te~n-ager from a r{}ugh. St. Louis neighborhood. Marxkors was an educated white public defender nearly twice hi~ age. 
Marxkors admitted she began .falling in love with Powell soon after she was appointed as a _public .. defend· er to handle his case. After his con\1ction, they bad their first sexual encounter in a holding cell near a St. Louis courtroom. The relationship last(ld for years. 
During the trial, prosecu­torsoffeteda plea bargain of life in prison in exchange for a guilty plea. Marxkors turned it down and never put Powell on the stand during the pen<dty phase. She said later she thought she could somehow get Powell off on a manslaughter'conviction. 
News? 1-5323 
BOOK SEARCH 

• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally· circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

If you're not part of the solution, ygu're part of the problem ... 



VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Thursday, February 26, 1998 


THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'.~ OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Edicor ............................ Hcathcr Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jcd Peters Viewpoint Editor •...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.....••.............. Jennifer Breslow ~ports Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor..............•••..•....... Jocy Crawford Sysccms Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller.................•....•..•.................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie:: Kroener 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe students of the Univcrsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. h d<Xs not ncccssarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is reported as accuratdy and objectively a,s possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edicor, Assistant Managing Edicor, News F.t!itor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor. Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, lenc:rs and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not ncces­mily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all membc" of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's t:ommuniry omd ro aJI rc.-aden. The free exprc.-ssion of varying opinions through lc:ttcrs is c.-ncouragcd. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Monaging Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saim Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 

Iraqi Student Pleads For Peace, End to Suffering 
Will I see my parents again? 

After a long and eventful journey from Iraq I reached this country to study for a degree at Notre Dame. 1\s an Iraqi now living in the U.S. I want to share a few thoughts with you, the reader, on the thrnat1mnd bombing or "showdown with Iraq." 
I have tried for 

the last few months to define what peace is, to '-----, explore how it could be made 
. .-:­attainable and to work towards that end. I now fnel helpless­helpl~ss because the fate of my family and friends msts with the allied 
.---.

governmenL<; 
over whose actions I have no control, and anx­ious -anxious because I do not know if, when, 


or where there will bn a strike. almost wish that it would happen. not bncause I want it to, but at lnast then it would be over. 


Dnfining peace is diflkult because it has benn flr.nting and scarce in my lifetinw. It remains elusive even here where there is no war, hut from where many wars are directed. For I now live in the country, whose government has the power to decide whether or not a war should start with Iraq and exactly how many Iraqi people should die before it stops. I now livn in America. 
Working for peace and wanting peace is also disheartening because I have no control over the actions of other govern­ments or over the actions of my own. I have only one small voice and am one person. I am powerless. And to be power­less in the pursuit of peace, in these days, is the worst feeling of all. 
During the Gulf War the glamour of the 


planes and bombs was seen differently and interpreted differently on the other side of the world. While people here were enjoying the show and applauding fast, accurate strikes, myself and my family were suffering, in hiding. Fear of dying 01' being crippled or paralyzed at any moment is indescribable. We reached a stage of despair praying that a bomb would fall on our heads and rescue us from the fear. 
Even in our prayers we were one, my 
family, friends and I. We wanted death to take us all or none at all. It now seems absurd that I could have once hidden under the stairs with the rest of the fami­ly and prayed, out of fear, for death. 
The horror I lived through has sequels, like all horror movies have. While I am here my family and friends are there. 
Glamorous 
planes and "accurate," "smart" bombs are still fash­ionable here on this side of the world. What can I do? 
I have started praying. Almost the same prayer as before­almost; Please don't let my parents and friends suffer. Either leave them alone or 
finish them all, but don't let them suffer like that. Please all of you who read this pray for me and for my family and friends and pray that more bombs don't fall on the Iraqi people. 
Anonymous February 21, 1998 
Editor's Note: Because ofthe nature of tensions between the U.S. and Iraq. The Observer chose to allow the author to remain anonymous. 
U.S. Abuses Power 

note to the editor on the mpending slaughter ol: inno­
ents ... I have a very Simple 

point to make. Here in the U.S. wp have the pre-eminent represlmtative democracy in the world. We have the opportunity to vote, to let our opinions be heard to the officers of our govern­ment, to organize with people of simi­lar motivations ourselves and poten­tially to have a legitimate impaet on the way our country is run. Yet even with all of these privileges -privilr.ges that arc the envy of every developing nation on earth -I know that most of us would not be willing to put ourselves on the line as accountable for many of the actions of our government. So ask yourself if it is just to hold the people of Iraq accountable for the behavior of their brutal totalitarian leader. /\sk yourself if it is just to punish them with death, with destruction and horror and loss beyond description .,. with the shock of two-ton explosives plunging mercilessly through inadequate bomb shelters into the soft bodies of the hun­dreds huddled terrified insidn. 
Every onu of us will be accountable by association for the ugly conceits of our powerful nation, just as we so readily thrust some twisted account­ability upon the children of Iraq. The difference, I suppose, is that while the reflective among us will feel only sad­ness and outrage, the Iraqi pr.opln will feel the unending agony of lives utterly destroyed. 
Tony Blanchet-Ruth Senior, Off Campus February 25, 1998 

• 000NESBURV 
ANI?7llffReA~I 
5()(£1-fTaJTlliiSALZ­Hli/Me/?'3 5UPR:JI<T 
GRaJO19 lHAT I'M 
ATII/ITSeNP , 
/(/IJJIM/C5. P/ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
SOMe PAYS Stl& TH!Nf<t3 I'M H~ 51JI7DR,50nOA~ IM He!< NU!<!ie, ~t?A~ Hl3l< ~Pl3R. BOY/ I 
I~V~~vvil.~=1rm'~4K! 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"We've become the people our parents warned us about." 
-Jimmy Buffett 
~---------------~ 
VIEWPOINT

Thursday, February 26, I998 page II 
• THE BELLE OF SAINT MARY'S 
Is Mooning a Male Art? 

I tackle only the big questions in this column, and today what I want to know is: 
1) Why do men occasionally find it necessary to partially disrobe and display their rear ends to each other? 
2) And why don't women feel a need to do this? 
3) And how is it possible that "Step By Step" is STILL on the air? 
4) And is there a connection between Questions one and three? 
We are all familiar with the concept of a drive-by mooning, in which one exposes one's posterior in a 40 mph blurred rush, followed by non­mulled acceleration and screaming self-congratulations, as if one has 
Mary Beth Ellis 
just singlehandedly secured perpetual world peace. But growing up without a brother or a boyfriend, I was 18 years old before I discovered that men often employ the moon in order to express disagreement or contempt. They use it to end arguments, as the 
touche to end all touches. To men, a moon, loosely 
translated, means: "I find 

your rationalizations weak and your general philosophy of life com­pletP!y void of logic. Your very existence, sir, is a blot upon the human race.". 
Whereas a woman will translate a moon as: "Oh, yeah? Well, HERE'S MY BUTT!" 
Women don't understand mooning at all. When women become upset with each other, we will turn to the more mature solution of mocking the size of one's thighs behind one's back. Our butts, however, are our own business. 
Mooning tends to stay within the realm of dorm rooms and speeding ,.-------------------, pickup trucks, which certainly helps to keep America beauti­ful, but tends to render adult life rather boring. The use of the moon would make, for example, presidential debates a LOT more interesting: BOB DOLE: We should cut federal spending. BILL CLINTON: No, we should increase it. BOB DOLE: (Moons him) SAM DONALDSON: President Clinton, do you have a rebuttal? BILL CLINTON: (Moons Sam Donaldson) Mooning might also be help­ful in man-on-man job inter­views: BMW-DRMNG CORPO­RATE SUIT PERSON: I'm sorry (your name here), but we just don't think our firm would make the best of your abilities. We will, however, keep your application on file, and-YOU: File THIS! (Moon him) BMW-DRIVING CORPO­RATE SUIT PERSON: (Runs away) See? You might not have 
any income, health insurance, :->~ p or retirement plan, but you '···-~ . -;J!!) " WILL have the timeless satis­
:;/ ,... faction of the last word. Down with The Man! The buttocks 

-
~==~~============~~~~~have spoken!The only word more final than a male mooning is the purposeful unveiling of an even more pri­vate area, a practice that is even more puzzling to me. Don't you people give each other one-urinal buffer zones to prevent each other from see­ing ... that? Again. the corresponding practice is one that women generally avoid. There is no bra removal in the company of others unless you're squished into an L.S. Ayers dressing room with your best friend and a Zum Zum formal dress for which you'll pay $110 to wear twice. The only reason a woman would disrobe in anger is ... Okay, I can't think of ANY reason why a woman would disrobe in anger, because it's stupid. I want to get to the bottom of this. (Sorry.) I hereby propose a full Student Government Exposure of Body Parts In Anger Task Force Committee Discussion Board Council Panel (SGEBPATFCDBCP), com­plete with its own logo, LaFortune office, and Awareness Week. And if you don't like it, well ... (insert moon here). 
Mary Beth Ellis is a junior English writing and political science major at Saint Mary's College who realizes that it would not be a tremendous­ly smart career move to include the preceding column in her resume portfolio. Her column may be seen in The Observer every other Thursday; her bare behind may not be seen anywhere, at any time. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Celebrate Women Swimmers 
W
e're No.1! We took the Big East tournament! We did better than expected in almost all ev.ents! But ~ow ~any students and faculty know about it? "It" was the Big East swim­. m!ng chal!lpwnsh1ps. The women won their second straight championship last weekend -an mcred1ble achievement. On top of that, Linda Gallo was the MVP swimmer, and Bailey Weathers won "Coach of the Year" honors (again, for the second straight year)! The men were very pleased to come away as the fourth best team in a very competitive conference (not as "dis­appointed" as the paper erroneously printed). · 
Coach Tim Welsh, who called the meet "a dream for us," and the teams are to be commended for their dedicat.ion and hard work. As unofficial team chaplain, I am privileged to be with them at Mass before their meets, and I know how hard they train and how much they put their hearts into bein~ the best they c~n be. Unfortunately, not many people on campus get to see that. They didn't receive a lot of press m The Observer, and when they did, it was tucked away in the middle of the sports section. Come on, Irish! Celebrate your champions! God bless our athletes. 
Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. February 25, 1998 

Even Our Newspaper is 
'Phallocentric' 
It is a rare occasion when an article in The Observer elicits any emotional response from us, as our senses have been dulled by the ceaseless drivel over the "two types of men at Notre Dame" and the sad state of relations between our "sisters" at SMC and the female population of NO. However, upon opening the paper today, we were directly confronted with a veritable onslaught of overt sexism. Is it real­ly necessary to have a separate "Women's News" page? Or does such a page signify that the rest of the publication is devoted exclusive­ly to news which would interest only men? 
We realize that the page is meant to promote womens' accomplishments which are often ignored, but the notion that women need a sep­arate page in the first place validates the con­tinued sexual segregation which permeates our phallocentric campus. What comes next? Perhaps next week we can look forward to an "African-American News" page, a "Caucasian News" page, or an "Hispanic News" page. 

We applaud the effort of The Observer in its increased attention to womens' activities on our campus and in society at large; however, sexual segregation is not the answer. 
Colleen Dolan Junior, Off Campus 
Maribeth Krzywicki Junior, Paasquerilla West February 20, 1998 

In Iraq We Must Practice Restraint 
D
o you litter anywhere you like just because. you know somebody is appointed to clean it up anyway? Or are you just trying to create more jobs? Do you take advantage of another person just because you can, and can get away with it? Or are you just adhering to the inevitable law of survival of the fittest? 
Do you bomb another country just because it is economically viable or to increase your self­image? Or is it because the other guy started it? 
It saddens me that in most television com­
. mentaries that I have watched recently, people, especially those political analysts, are only con­cerned with the practicality of-bombing Iraq and not the moral justification of it. People seem to accept bombing Iraq and getting rid of Saddam Hussein (and perhaps installing a democratic government) as a justified action and never question whether we should do it in the first place. Even if you can, the end doesn't justify the mean. As I see it, people are more concerned with who is going to pay the bill; is it going to help us achieve our goals; what are we prepared to do next? Perhaps I should not be surprised. People here appear to take their president's infidelity in great stride. The greatest tragedy of this nation is not that her president has loose pants. but because her people don't care. Some people argue that we should not judge the president with a higher standard than we are willing to hold ourselves to. But in case I am mistaken, you only have to elect one president from this nation of 200 million strong. And what happens to leading by example? I doubt that it is impos­sible to find another person in this country that is less salacious and no less capable. The moment we condone immoral acts is the moment morality starts to decay. Maybe this is just another sign of changing times. I didn't attend the Teach-in, but it doesn't take an expert to help me realize that this is a fiasco created, amplified and blinded by testos­terone (no offense to Madam Albright). America has a bone to pick with Saddam Hussein. not Iraq, let's not blur the line. Iraq has not com­mitted any aggression and there is no moral justification to add salt to the wound that the American-led economic sanctions have inflicted on the helpless Iraqi people, period. People should not even think of whether bombing is feasible. If America does go against the will of the rest of the world, she will be the one that is committing aggression. And shame on you for picking on someone that is just a fraction of your size (in every respect). 

I am not defending Saddam Hussein, but he is no Hitler either. He is more like a crippled tiger with his tail betweeri his legs. America should have more class than to stoop to his level and play his game. Will an apple fall upwards if you curse it or dare it? Even if he is harboring deadly weapons, do you seriously think that the rest af the world will give him the chance of creating another mess like Hitler did? Since President Hussein is constantly under a spot­light and microscope, the world will not hesi­tate to retaliate. 
What puzzles me is that the nations that are most directly threatened by Saddam Hussein actually oppose the bombing of Iraq. They are not supporting it, not even ambivalent about it. Yet, America is persistently poking her nose into other people's affair. There is a Chinese saying that aptly describes this situation, albeit slightly vulgar: The king doesn't care, the eunuch cares. 
America has always proclaimed herself to be the greatest arbiter of peace and champion of freedom. Yet, she cannot accept other people who adopt other ways of life and are bent on converting everybody else to their own camp. America, by and large is still a Christian coun­try, have you ever heard of God insisting on us following Him? Or else He'll bomb us? Or maybe He is only using different tactics? Furthermore, Saddam Hussein is not the only dictator who has committed great injustices to his and other people. Many other countries have done that too, I don't need to name them here. But instead of isolating them and threat­ening them with bombings, America "engages" them in dialogues with unsurpassed tolerance or she simply turns a blind eye. Why not accord the same courtesy to Iraq? Is it because it is not economically feasible? Ohh ... , it is cheaper to bomb than to sit down and talk, what a great 20th century logic! I guess in the future, if you look in a dictionary, you will find this example under double standard, hypocrisy and insanity. 
In actual fact, the chance of America firing the next missile is much greater than coming from the rest of the world. It is America that should practice self-restraint lest she become a worldwide, trigg~-happy, abominable bully. 
Finally, I would like to express my apology to anyone that has been offended by my article and/or the language therein. Thank you. 
Seng Kai Wong Physics graduate student February 21, 1998 


page 12 
Thursday, February 26, 1998 
****stars 
out of five

James lha Let It Come Down 



Saturnzreturn 

W
hat do Bob Davie and James Iha have in common? They have both Jived in the shadow of some legend. While Davie got his calling to the spotlight last year with the retiring of head football coach Lou Holtz, Iha is just now taking the attention away from Smashing Pumpkins' bandmate and lead singer/guitarist Billy Corgan. Although Iha had two of his own songs appear on the Pumpkins' last album, many people will fail to recognize the songwriter's name. let alone his own work. The first solo album from Iha called Let It Come Down just might be enough to establish some credit to the forgotten Pumpkin. 
The majority of the songs, such as "Sound of Love" and "Lover, Lover," deal primarily with love. Throughout the album. lha speaks of the love he has been searching for, and the jubilation he feels when he finally attains it. Other songs, such as "Be Strong Now," serve as motivational anthems to those who are weak and afraid. The lyrical content on this album is a far cry from the depressive themes used on many Smashing Pumpkins' songs. lha seems much less tortured than his friend Corgan. I guess it's the whole stardom thing that makes Billy feel blue. 
Iha's music also offers a refreshing, softer alterna­tive to the harder edge brought by the Pumpkins' music. The sweet sounds of acoustic guitars predom­inate on this album, and Iha is backed up by a great 
goldie 
A
fter his highly successful first album, Goldie returns with another assortment of elec­tronic offerings which showcase his versa­tility. There is real value in the cost of the purchase because it is a double album lasting well over two hours and consisting of two distinct move­ments. The principal track on the first CD, Mother, is a long, slow orchestral arrangement with sparse vocals, a combination which is both surprising and eloquent. "Truth" is similar and contains vocals by David Bowie, one of many stars to jump onto the Goldie bandwagon. 
More variety is found on the second disc, a varied selection of tracks ranging from hip hop to ambient to deep dub vibe. KHS-One guests on "Digital," a fre­netic and slightly awkward track that is perhaps the lowlight of the album. Things improve later on with the fluid grace of "Chico," a fast jungle beat stretched over an ominous bassline in the best Aphex Twin fashi_pn. The ubiquitous Noel Gallagher makes an appearance on "Temper Temper," another ragged tablet of noise containing distorted vocals and frag­ments of verse. "Fury" is appropriately titled in that it group of musicians that includes two keyboardists, some backup vocalists, and a string section. On "Jealousy," Iha employs the talents of a horn section to add some fresh funk. The thrashing guitar solos found on any Pumpkins' albums will not be found here. 

The one aspect of the rncord that might hurt Iha is the accusation that he might be too happy. Iha's var­ious tales of beautiful girls do get tiresome, and OIHl might find tho need to slap him after thn pointless "Country Girl," in which lha speaks of his nmpty infatuation with tho new girl in town. Those people out there experiencing recent breakups might want to steer clear of this one. 
Living up to someone else's standard is a tough mountain to climb, especially when you are an unknown to begin with. James Iha conquers Mt. Everest with Let It Come Down, hopefully offering a glimpse of future treasures to come from his delight­ful musicianship. Maybe James could even rub some 
. of his charm off on Billy the next time they get together. 
by GeoffRahie 
****stars 
out of five 

complements earlier tracks by ofl'ering a mixture of fast and slow rhythms, echoing its predecessors while contributing something new to the general theme of the album. · 
Overall Goldie has done well here; it is a diflieult task to follow up a big-selling debut, but as the Chemical Brothers have shown, it is not impossible. For those not into this type of eleetronica, Saturnzreturn may not be the best introduction as it suffers mildly in comparison to thn aforementioned Aphex Twin, but for the initiated this serond release is a weleome addition to the collection. Somntimns Goldie's lyrics an~ not the most original, and occa­sionally his beats have been heard somewhere before, but tlHi. way in whieh tlw parts come togntiH•r makes the album dnfinitnly worth a list!m. 
by Julian Elliott 
~La~st by The Lowdown~"Favoritewee~k'sap~pearan~ce One-llit Wonder" while Cure frontman Robert Smith Fresh Prince Will Smith took on Comedy C1mtral's "South home "Favorite Guilty Pleasure" Park" brought the eartoon series time of rest or recording for the band. celine Dion may have accomplished and "Best Male Singer." 
its highest rating to date. Two shows (April 2-3) will take place a lot as a singer, but she has never Jewel beat Mariah Carey for "Best According to Neilsen Media Research, at Lopg Island's Nassau Coliseum, while had one of her hit songs remixed Female Singer," while Carey instead approximately 3.208,000 U.S. house-on April 4-5~ the band will,be playing at ... until now. Thanks to the British duo was honored as "Artist Most in Need of holds tuned into the "Mecha-Streisand" the Provi<lence Civi<I,:Ct~nter in Soul Solution, a dance remix of her a Good Spanking." Bush's Gavin episode, which features Smith fighting Providence, R.I. Following the four-song "My Heart Will Go On" from the Rossdale was tapped as "Pin-Up Artist singer Barbara Streisand, who tries to show stint, Phish will return to the stu-"Titanic" spundtrack will be arriving in of 1997," and his group was named takn over the world by using magic dio to continue working on its ninth stores in the next few weeks. "The Band Who Most Hocked Your powers granted by an ancient amulet album. World." discovered in South Park. Furthermore, / __.-· 
the show attracted 40,000 more view-More than 1()0,000 America ers than ABC's "Prime Time Live." ska/pop band Save Ferris is getting Online users helped determine eader singer Perry Farrell has This surprise ratings' victory, marking ready for the prom, literally. Heact the winners of the 1997 Online oflicially pulled the plug on Pornos the first time a cable station has beaten magazine (www.react.com) is tak-Music Awards. The Spice Girls won for for Pyros. The former Jane's
L 
a Big Three broadcast network during ing entries from fans to win a 45-"Album of the Year," while Baby Spice Addiction frontman is already working 
prime time. minute performance of Save Ferris at was adorned as the "Favorite Spice on a new project named Gobbclee. The their high school prom. The band is Girl." Marilyn Manson won for "Best new group will feature a rotating group currently on tour with Sugar Ray and Album for Torturing Your Parents" and of m~j~ians that will likely include 
F
or the first time since 1994, Phish Po rna~ mates Stephen Perkins and
Goldfinger supporting its major label "Artist Most Likely to be Damned to 

will be playing a series of shows in debut, It Means Everything. Hell." Peter Di Stefano. 
the month of April, traditionally a 
Chumbawamba was considered 
WSND TOP10 
1.) Various-Scream 2 sdtk. 2.) Ani DIFranco-Uttle Plastic Castle 3.) Peari.Jam-Yield 4.) Various -MTV 120 
Minutes Live 5.) Green Day-Nimrod 6.) The Cure-Galore 7 .) G. Love & The Special Sauce -Yeah, It's That Easy 

8.) Lisa Loeb ­ Firecracker  
9.) Pee Shy ­ Don't Get Too  
Comfortable  

10.) Big Daddy Voodoo Daddy (EP) 
Thursday, February 26, 1998 page 13 

**stars 
out of five

various artists Trainspotting #2 

I
rvine Welsh's 1995 novel "Trainspotting" about the abject dismalness of life in modern Edinburgh spawned a movie by that same name in 1995. Featured on the soundtrack to that film titled, surprisingly enough, Trainspotting, was some of the best euro club music of last year. Unfortunately, this review is not about that particular album, but rather the sequel to it, Trainspotting #2. 
Trainspotting #2 is a release designed to coincide with a limited edition directors cut of Trainspotting the film, referred to as the "Green Edition" for an ad campaign that reverses the usual obnoxious orange styling for an equally obnoxious green. However, it is not available for purchase yet in the United States due to a conflict between Great Britain's video cas­sette formatting and America's tried and true VHS. 
The CD soundtrack with nifty green styling, though, is ready and waiting at your local purveyor of finer music (i.e. the bookstore). Trainspotting #2 includes a few songs not found on the original soundtrack. The remaining tracks are songs "that inspired the film makers or has been inspired by the film" according to the liner notes. The notes also detail why certain tracks were included on this album, but not in the movie, which is certainly important, since this reviewer has no clue what Fun Boy Three's "Our Lips are Sealed" was doing on this album. 
However, this does not account for several tracks. These seemingly inexplicable tracks are mainly remixes of the exceptionally popular songs from the first album, designed to lure in fans of the first album with the seeming promise of music in a similar vein: These particular remixes, however, do little. The DJs who decide to change what worked about the song need to brush up on a few basic principles of logic here. But, for the most part, Trainspotting #2 sue­ceeds in capturing the euro-club feel of the movie and the first album. Incessant beats that invoke a pri­mal urge to dance in the listener combined with the refinement of a techno edge to appeal to the higher senses run rampant through this album. However, it cannot escape the fact that it is mainly comprised of music not considered good enough to make the origi­nal motion picture or the original soundtrack. 

The album fails to appeal to mass audiences as the first soundtrack did. It lacks the smoothed out feel that stems from a comprehensive soundtrack. While individual songs, such as Underworld's "Dark and Long" and PF Project's "Choose Life" (featuring Ewan McGregor's now infamous "choose life" sound byte) are grand club shaking, bass boosting, dance tracks; they feel disconnected from the rest of the album (to say nothing of the "Haberna" from Carmen (Georges Bizet must be rolling over in his grave.) David Bowie's "Golden Years" didn't make the movie-for a good reason. It ought to go the way of the dinosaur and leisure suits. Heaven 17's "Temptation" ­although included in the movie -perhaps would have been better off remaining anonymous. 
While certain tracks are very danceable and listen­able for anyone into the euro club music scene, or looking for something more worldly than "Mo' Money, Mo' Problems" for their next party, the rest of this album seems to appeal only to die hard British post-punk generation, or those with precious little taste in music. 
by Dominic Caruso 
*** 1/2 stars

Hellcat Records Presents ... 
out of five

various artists 
;:
Give 'Em The Boot 


A
s ska continues its inevitable ascent as the champion of all music, its presence in the 
recording industry has strengthened. Many 
small labels devoted to ska and her minions have come into existence, as bands like the Toasters, Bim Skala Biro, Skankin' Pickle, and Less than Jake have all expanded the face of ska with their respec­tive labels. 
Tim Armstrong, of Rancid (and formerly Operation Ivy) fame, has combined his efforts with the success­ful punk and oi label Epitaph to assemble perhaps the most formidable stable of bands in existence. Hellcat records released its inaugural compilation Give 'Em the Boot this past summer, and the listing of bands on the disc reads like an all-star list of the ska and punk community. Hepcat, the Slackers, Skinnerbox, the Skatalites, Stubborn Allstars, Rancid, Voodoo Glowskulls, the Pietasters, and the Dave Hillyard Hocksteady 7 -this is a definitive listing of the music you will be hearing over the next few years. 
As with any new enterprise, it takes time to perfect the product, and Hellcat seems to suffer from this same quandary. Despite the quality of bands, produc­er Armstrong has difficulty with an age old problem -capturing the intensity of' live ska in the studio. While this is the case with certain tracks, there is definitely potential. Hepcat's "Can't Wait" is the gem of the disc, ensnaring the vocal stylings of Greg Lee, Alex Desert, and Deston Berry as well as the irre­sistible groove created by bassist David Fuentes and percussionist Chris Castanan. These gentlemen have been at the forefront of the West Coast ska scene since the early '90s, yet their first two releases never quite conveyed their genius. With their initial release "Right on Time" hitting the shelves recently, look for big things from Hepcat. 

While Give 'Em the Boot didn't quite live up to expectations, it is still a solid compilation of many tal­ented bands. Best of all, it retails for under five bucks; so do yourself a favor and pick up a copy. Hellcat Records can be contacted at www.hell­cat.com. Hellcat artists Hepcat, the Slackers, and the Gadjits will be performing this Saturday night at Metro in Chicago. 
by Matt Buttel 

Primus/Blink 182 Feb.27 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) 
The Crystal Method Feb.28 House Of Blues (Chicago) 

The Chieftains March 1 Clowes Memorial Hall (Indianapolis) Matchbox 20 March8 Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Reel Big Fish March 13 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Third Eye Blind/Smashmouth March 16 Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) Puff Daddy & The Family March 20 Rosemont Horizon (Rosemont, IL) Alibaba's Tahini/Umphrey's McGee March 28 StateTheatre (South Bend) Rani Size Reprazent March 21 Metro {Chicago) Ben Harper March 23 Vogue Theatre (Indianapolis) 
Leftover Salmon March27 The Vic (Chicago) 

Mary J. Blige March 27 Arie Crown Theatre (Chicago) 
The Skatalites/Let's Go Bowling/Skapone March 27 Metro (Chicago) 

Violent Femmes April6 World Mardi Gras (Indianapolis) Eric Clapton April9-10 United Center (Chicago) Radiohead April10 Rosemont Theatre (Rosemont, IL) 
.. 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 26, 1998 

Lightning flashes a streak of fine play over Capitals 
NOTICES  Student Worker needed at the Office of Students with Disabilities  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  PERSONAL  thanks for moving the homework dr. palmieri  Hey -did you know...  
for 1 hour a day  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  We're open early, late, and week­ 
- OOOTHE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student  000  (12:00 noon-1:00pm) three days a week (T, W. Th) to answer phones  2773097  Oil-Broadway Musical at Notre Dame? SEALOVE, MANAGER  trinity guiness  ends for your convenience! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  
Center  and light office work. Please call 1·  original musical direct from NY  flat above a pub  LaFortune Student Center  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE. AND  7157.  New 5 bdrm, 2 bath home with LA,  Washington Hall  trips to europe  Phone 631-COPY  
WEEKENDSIII  FA, outdoor deck. & 2 car garage  Feb 26, 27, 2S @ 7:30  skiing in the alps  
Men -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am • 7:00pm  FOR RENT  within walking distance of campus. Has AJC. gas. heat. stove. refrig,  $7 ($4 students) Buy Tix at Lafortune  are you ready john  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer.  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  G/0, 0/W, W & D. $1500 per mo.  I don't want to study for my test  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire·  
Sun  Noon -Midnight  232·4527.  The fabulous LeTTerS will take cen­ tomorrow  place in winter. Love and joy for  
CALL 631-COPY  2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR  ter stage at the IRISH CONNEC­ I don't like lagrange  yoCJr baby all year long. Happy, car- 
CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW &  TION this FRIDAY, FEBRUARY  ing professional couple would love  
Students and Instructors wanted.  FALL.272-6551  FREE SUMMER STORAGE  27th at 10 p.m. Come witness the  I got dibs on the darkroom!  to provide a new born with love, joy  
We are test running a new, two-day  '9S-'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar.  only cutting trOmpe! in town and  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ 
seminar. the Win/Win Class, at no  WID. V-Ball Ct. 162S Portage.  our own version of the bearded  The Filipino American  S00-4S4-7011 Pin #4523  
charge to you, designed to increase  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  234-3S31 I 273-04S2  lady. Failure is not an option.  Student Organization  
creative thinking, and improve rela- ND-SMC EVENTS.  presents:  Dan & Tom  
tlonshlps of all kinds. Call 243-S632 for a reservation.  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • 5 MIN. DRIVE OR t5·20 MIN. WALK.  FOR SALE  san antonio has relocated to ire-land, sorry  !!FIESTANG FILIPINO IV!!  To the world's best writing team.  I  
243·065S.  A Night of Filipino  don't think Denver is going to work  
•·  WANTED  ALL SIZE HOMES  Mac PowerBook 190cs, S/500. $ 500. Call Leopold at 273 9275.  to all those who read these for my benefit, it is all over now  Food and Dance  out, but there will be a trip for you soon. I guarantee it even if I'm only  
CLOSE TO CAMPUS  it's been fun  Sat, Feb.2S, 6pm  going to be in charge for three more  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  232-2595  Stepan Center  days.· M.D.  
please call 219-271·0633  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  coli­ $5 stud.  $7 GA  
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  with orthopedic mattress set and  sorry, I can't take this any more.  Dan & Tom  
Russian. 7 yrs exp. Rus. teacher  219-291-7153  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  it is a far far better thing that I do  Word association:  
for foreigners. Private & group  in plastic. $225 219-S62-20S2  now...  LeTTerS  Don't listen to him. We all know  
lessons all levels & translations  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR  d.a.  IRISH CONNECTION  who's really in charge of this  
Yulia: 243·1079 leave message  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD  RENT 162S PORTAGE '9S·'99 I  FUN  department.  
AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097  234-3831 /273-0482  Uh. they're plotting.  -your Skittles connection  

Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

U.S. Olympic coach Hon Wilson's miserable month got worse Wednesday night as his Washington Capitals lost 4-3 to the eellar-dwelling Tampa Bay Lightning on Alexander Selivanov's goal with 7.4 sec­onds to play. 
In thll teams' first gam!l since the Olympics, S!llivanov put the puek in aftpr Sylvain Cote failed to clear after a faee-off at the Capitals' end. 
The Capitals did rally from a 3-1 d11fidt after two periods on goals by Hir.hard Zednik with 
15:51 to play and Craig Berube with 7:44 remaining, but Washington's inability to dear the puck cost threegoals ­induding the game-winner. 
Selivanov got the first on a wraparound goal at 12:54 for his first goal in 10 games. It became 2-0 at 14:16 when the Capitals couldn't clear and Tucker poked in the shot for his fourth goal. 
Islanders sold for $195 Dlillion 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 
It's official: The New York lslnnders hnve finally been sold. 
After a series of snags that stretd1ed over the past seven years. the Islanders have been oflicially bought by New York Sports Ventures, headed by Steven Gluckstern and Howard Milstein. 
Seven months of negotiations were completed Wednesday, it was announced by Gary Lewi, a spokesman for New York Sports Ventures. 
An official announcement will be held Thursday morning 
p.t Nassuu Coliseum. 
New York Sports Ventures purchased the team from John Pickett for $195 million. The deal includes the team, the cable television contract (worth u total of about $500 million) and the 70-aere tract of land 

• 
Classifieds 
Four more penalties brought a power play goal for each team in the second period, as the Capitals once again paid the price for poor puck-handling. After Peter Bondra couldn't get it out of the zone, David Wilkie took a shot and Paul Ysebaert nicked in the rebound from a tight angle to the right of the net at the 11: 14 mark. 
Toronto 2, Buffalo 2 
Mathieu Sehneider's goal with 
4.1 seconds remaining in regula­tion lifted the Toronto Maple Leafs to a 2-2 tie Wednesday night with the Buffalo Sabres in a game played brilliantly by Olympic star Dominik Hasek. 
Donald Audette had given Buffalo a 2-1 lnad with 4:04 left in regulation when he stulled in his 16th after the Sabres had a two-man advantage following Toronto penalties 26 seconds apart. 
If it weren't for Hasek, the Sabres could have been beaten by at least four goals. Instead, 
that surrmmds the Coliseum. 
Gluckstern, who is the head of an insurance firm and Milstein, who deals in real estate, will each own 45 per cent of the team. Gluckstern was formerly a half-owner of the Phoenix Coyotes. 
Pickett bought the team out­
right in 1978, after serving as .an original minority owner under Roy Boe. And after res­cuing the team from near bankruptcy and serving as owner during New York's four consecutive Stanley Cup cham­pionships from 1980·1983, Pickett started to lose interest in the team. He moved to Virginia and distanced himself from the Islanders, and the 
team started to collapse. 
Pickett thought he had the team sold last year to Dallas businessman John Spano, but Spano was deemed fraudulent in his financial holdings, and the deal collapsed. 
they extended their unbeaten streak to 10 games (5-0-5}. Not sur­prisingly, he was named the game's first star. 
Geoff Sanderson opened the scoring on his first shift for with the Sabres since being trad­ed to Buffalo from Vancouver in a deal that sent forward Brad May to the Canucks. 
Hasek stopped at least six good scoring oppor­tunities over the first two periods before Todd Warriner beat him with 
1:28 left in the second when he flipped a back­hander over the fallen goaltender. Hasek then stopped two breakaways and no fewer than four other good chances in the third. 
Dallas 4, New York Islanders 1 
Ed Belfour stopped 21 shots as the Dallas Stars 
. beat the New York Islanders 4-1 Wednesday night in the first game for the two teams since the Olympic break. 
Pat Verbeek, Jere Lehtinen, Juha Lind and Mike Modano scored for the Stars, who own the league's best road record (20-8-3} and best overall record (37-13-8). 
Olympic gold medalist Robert Reichel had New York's goal, as the Islanders started a crucial stretch of seven of their next eight games at home. Tommy Salo started his lOth straight game in goal for New York and turned aside 21 shots. 
The Stars took a 1-0 lead in the first minute on a power-play goal by Verbeek, who beat Salo with a shot from the slot. Lehtinen put the Stars up 2-0 at 
9:08 on a one-timer from the lower right circle that bounced in ofT the left post. 
Lind gave Dallas a 3-0 lead at 
11:48 of the second period when his wrist shot from the low slot beat Salo high to the stick side. 
Reichel broke Belfour's bid for an eighth shutout this season when he took Trevor Linden's 
KRTPhoro 

U.S. Olympic and Washington head coach Ron Wilson continues his woes. After the poor Olympic showing in Nagano, his Capitals lost to last-place Tampa Bay. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 3_14 La_Fortune and fro~ 12 p.m. to 3 p.m.~~ 309 Haggar c_:ollege Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds IS 3p.m. All claSSlfieds must be prepaid. The chargers 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
pass and wristed a 20-footer inside the Jell post just 19 sec­onds into the final period. 
New Jersey 3, Florida 2 
Denis Pederson's power-play goal keyed a three-goal second period as the New Jersey Devils beat the Florida Panthers 3-2 Wednesday night. 
The Devils, top team in the Eastern Conference with a 35­16-6 record, stretched their win­ning streak to four games and unbeaten streak to five (4-0-1). The Panthers are 0-3-1 in their last four games. 
With the teams tied at 2-2 in the second period, a turnover in the Panthers' zone during a Devils power play set up Pederson. His slap shot from the faceofr circle went through John Vanbiesbrouck's legs for the go­ahead goal at 12:51. 
Backup Mike Dunham (3-4-2) started in place of New Jersey's regular goalie Martin Brodeur (32-11-4), and recorded 23 saves. lie made a big leg save on Hay Whitney's slap shot with 
5:30 left in the scoreless third period to preserve the victory, his first since Dee. 10. 
The Panthers took a 2-1 lead at 2:41 on Gord Mur,eh.YU.::ft shot fr,vm tJt& b)~··•at elud­
ec:J..:r~creened-out Dunham. 
At 9:50 of the seeond, ddense­man Lyle Odelein's slap shot from the blue line was delleeted in by Bob Carpenter to make it 2-2. It was Odelein's second assist of the game. 
The Panthers took a 1-0 lead at 16:16 of the first period on Tom Fitzgerald's 1Oth goal. The Devils tied it on Petr Sykora's shorthanded goal at 1:05 of the second period. 
Vanbiesbrouck, who has start­ed the past 16 games, but played just one minute while backing up Mike Richter for team USA in Nagano, had 26 saves . 

~-~----~---~------------------------~-----~---------------·------------­
Thursday, February 26, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
-
Cone shakes off sore shoulder in spring training 
Associated Press 
David Cone showed no real sign of a sore shoulder, but David Wells is still a bit sad­dled by sore ribs. 
The New York Yankees hurlers are having opposite experiences at spring training as they try to shake off their injuries and the team tries to shake out its rotation. 
Cone mixed it up and was problem free during an intrasquad contest in Tampa, Fla., on Wednesday, his first game since last year. 
Wells tried to throw but was bothered by strained muscles between his right ribs, an injury that may keep him from his first scheduled spring train­ing start Saturday. 
"lie tried to throw and he had a little problem," said Yankees manager Joe Torre. "It's been nagging him the past four. five, six days and it has prevented him from doing a lot of throwing." 
Cone threw 37 pitches -20 of them strikes -in two innings, using all four pitches in his repertoire. He allowed one run, one walk. and three hits. While his control was 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. 

Former Cy Young Award winner Jack McDowell, who sat out most of last season with an elbow injury, has agreed to terms on a one-year contract with the Anaheim Angels. 
McDowell, who underwent minor surgery ,on his right elbow May 20, was e-xpected to miss about a month but sat out all of 1997. The Cleveland Indians later declined to exer­cise his $4.8 million option for this season. 
McDowell. who was 3-3 with· a 5.09 ERA in eight games with the Indians last year, said he was eager to get back on the mound. · 
"They've got a great young 

• In the Florida Marlins' first game since winning the World Series last October, Julio Ramirez had three hits and Nelson Lara closed out a com­bined six-hitter to help the

T T 
Marlins beat the University of 

R 0 
occasionally off, his perfor­mance went rather smoothly. 
"I've been waiting for a game to come along all winter and today was the day," Cone said. "I had no problems with-my shoulder and that's really the key for me. I was a little ner­vous and a little anxious to get out there. I wasn't as sharp as I'm going to be or would like to be." 
Cone remains optimistic he will be ready by the regular season's initial week. He makes his exhibition debut Tuesday against Houston at Kissimmee. 
New York trainer Gene Monahan said Wells ailment is "not a major injury" but added Wells will not throw the next few days. 
A decision on whether the Yankees will make offers for free agent pitchers Ricardo Aramboles and Orlando Hernandez could be made Thursday when team officials meet with owner George
Steinbrenner. 
In other news: 
• First baseman Darin Erstad, the first overall selec­tion in the 1995 free-agent 
team, a great groitp it's just a od st~u&:tlo:n:·, me," Wednesday. "You at people who have a . . something and where ym:(: <;!in fit in, where you,have acha;nce to win and the Angels fit as well as anybody." 
McDowell and Angels general 
manager Bill Bava$i d¥>m.Jsse:d 
concerns aboutbis health... 
"I really don't think my value 
as far as being a workhors~ 
has dropped and my he:alth 
isn't an issue at all," McDowell d r a f t , agreed to terms of a four-year deal with the Anaheim Angels. 

• Tests show Red Sox second b a s e m a n Jeff Frye has torn the a n t e r i o r cruciate Jig­ament and lateral carti­lage in his left knee during a r u n d ow n drill. He is expected to h a v e surgery as soon as pos­sible and miss the entire sea­son. KRTPhoto 
• Two Yankee ace David Cone started throwing the heat at camp yesterday as New York repairs 
• Four Hall of Famers with
said. riot\" Bavasi said. 
ties to the Tampa Bay area ­
The right-handerwork()d opt of those guys on 
Ted Williams, Stan Musial,
for Angels scouts several weeks important to 11$· 
Monte Irvin and AI Lopez ­
ago to allay concerns about his .our clUbhouse: 
will simultaneously throw out
arm. much better,". 
ceremonial pitches for the
''We're excited Ternis of the 
Devil Rays' inaugural game on
health," Bavasi said~ discloseM< 
March 31. 
days of the injury-ridden pitching staff of last season. treatment has improved Curt Schilling's All-Star right-hander won't be sore left hamstring so much forced to miss his first spring that the Philadelphia Phillies' start of the season. 
• 
Alex Fernandez, who has been rehabilitating his injured right shoulder in Miami, visited the Florida Marlins' clubhouse and looked fitter than ever after losing at least 25 pounds in the offseason. His next pitch, however, remains months away. 

• 
Orel Hershiser, a free agent acquisition by San Francisco, said he believes his reunion with Giants pitching coach Ron


···9 
Perranoski holds the key to
&tr1Jgglerl ear rediscovering his old deliverywas demoted to . 
and perhaps even adding
McDowell said velocity and sharpness to hisl>ein ..1lt :the::;A sinker and curve ball. He said
training cJtmp in 
he strayed from his original
·· by FridaylT 
style while in Cleveland the"He's one of past three years.
baseball you ·· 
p
I 

God's
p p L E 
people
E • R 
need you.
PIZZa • ® 

....---=-L-=-A=-RG-=-=-E-=-p=1z=zA....,.....--___, 
FOR ONLY $2.00 MORE
CHEESE & UP TO 3 GREAT TOPPINGS 
MAKE IT AN 
$899 
EXTRA LARGE SIZE PIZZA 

Fr. Jim King, c.s.c 
Add 2nd Large Pizza Only $6.00 Add A 
(with Equal or Fewer Toppings) 
Cheezy Bread 

Free Delivery 
No Coupon Necessary Plus Delivery and Tax $199

on Campus 
Where Applicable Excludes Other Offers 
With any Pizza Purchase Limited Time Offer 

Fr. Bill Wack. c s.c 

Miami 9-2. 
• 
Kevin Tapani and Steve Trachsel each gave up three hits in three innings for the Chicago Cubs in the team's first intrasquad game. Scott Servais threw out all three runners who tried to steal against him. 

• 
Tony Gwynn, Mark Sweeney and Carlos Hernandez each went 2-for-2 in the San Diego Padres' intrasquad game, their final tune-up before Thursday's exhibition season opener. 

• 
Chris Peters pitched two scoreless innings and Aramis Ramirez hit a two-run double as the Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Hyundai Unicorns 4-0 to split a doubleheader. In the first game. three Korean pitch­ers threw a five-hitter in a 2-0 win in the seven-inning game. 

• 
The New York Mets, adher­ing to manager Bobby Valentine's schedule, used six pitchers in a 6-3 exhibition win over the Korean National Team in the first of two exhibitions between the teams. 

• 
In Tucson, Ariz., Hensley Meulens had a solo home run and three singles in the Arizona Diamondbacks first intrasquad game. "We chris­tened the ballpark in a nice way," Meulens said after his homer at Tucson Electric Park. 


For more information on the Hol_v Cross one-year Candidate Program contact -
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
Notre Dame: SR 23 East of Ironwood 243-1111 Saint Mar 's: 52750 US 33N Between Cleveland & Darden Rd. 243-1122 

_._---------------------~-----~--~ ---­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 26, I998 
-• U.S. SOCCER U.S. shut out by Belgium, 2-0 


Associated Press 
BRUSSELS. Belgium 
The United States soccer 

tnam lost Wednesday for the 
third straight time since post­
ing one of the biggest wins in 
U.S. soccer history. 
Nico Vankcrckhuvcn scored two goals to give Belgium a 2­0 win in a pre-World Cup exhi­bition match. 
Since beating Brazil 1-0 in the Gold Cup on Feb. I 0, the 
U.S. team has lost to Mexico, the Netherlands and Belgium. not scoring a goal in any of the thnw games. 
Tlw losses to Belgium and the Netherlands. by identical 2-0 scores, are particularly troubling for the U.S. team, whidt will play European pow­Ill'S Gnrmany and Yugoslavia in tho World Cup in .Juno. 
Watched by 16,000 in the King Baudouin Stadium here. the game came alive in the 2:{rd minute when Vanknrekhoven broke loose on Bnlgium's left f'lank, chased the ball hard into the goal mouth and tipped it through thn lngs of U.S. goalkenper Kas1~y Keller. 
Tlw U.S. respondnd later in the half'. but Alexi Lalas and Erie Wynalda could not linish off scoring opportunities. 
The Belgians took control in the sncond half when Vankerekhoven scored his sec­ond goal in the 54th minute. Vankerckhoven scored ofT the inside of the post on a rebound al'tnr Lue Nilis' free kick left Keller out of position. 
The Belgians kept up the pressure. In the 64th minute Manu Karagianni -seeing Keller way out of his goal ­attempted a high and fast lob that just sailed over the goal. 
The Americans best chance at scoring in the second half came in thn 71Jth minute when Brian McBride caught a high 
KAT Photo 
After upsetting Brazil two weeks ago, the U.S. team, Jed ~y defender 
Alexi Lalas (right), was unable to come through aga1nst Belg1um. 
pass on the chest in the goal days. mouth yet could not get it past The United States had beat-goalie Filip de Wilde. en Sweden, Cuba, Costa Rica 
It was the United States' and Brazil before the losses to third game against Belgium. It Mexico, the Netherlands and won in 1930 to advance to the Belgium. World Cup semifinals and lost Two more games are sched­an exhibition game 1-0 on uled in the next three months April22, 1995. (Paraguay at San Diego on 
The loss to Belgium leaves March 14 and Austria at the Americans with a 4-3 Vienna on April 22) before record at the end of a seven-final World Cup preparations game stretch over the past 33 start in May. 
Big East 
continued from page 24 

memory for Manner, too, who ended a three-game 0-for-1 7 shooting slump by hitting three of his four shots for 6 points. 
"I was looking at my parents before we were introduced. and to see them there smiling it was very special," he said, unable to shake his own smile that he wore from the court to the lock­er room. "The fan support was nice, too, to hear them clapping and cheering. I felt it was my duty to make a layup for them. (The first) felt real good, and I thought I should make a eouple after that." 
Irish coach John MacLeod also recognized the positive performances Manner and Garrity put out in what may their final game in the white jerseys. 
"You couldn't ask for a better night," MacLeod said. "It was a hard-fought game. it was a close game. Nobody left, every­body stayed to watch it at the end. This was a game where both Derek and Pat were able to show their character and their ability to persevere. It was not an easy game, you could see that it wasn't easy for either team. Both teams went after each othf~r and it was great to see Pat and Derek lin­ish on a positive note at home." 
But MacLeod suggested that the impact of the two senior co­captains will carry on beyond last night's dose victory. 
"As we mentioned the other day, they have been stalwarts in this rebuilding process," MacLeod continued. "They have made major-league con-
If you see sports happening, contact Observer Sports at 1-4543. 
tributions that will be· recog­nized for years to come." 
Some of those contributions may have appeared last night. Garrity answered a lot of his post-game qunstions with praise for his teammates, who helped the Irish to what was probably their best team-ell'ort victory. 
"I eouldn't hit baskets in the first half. but Martin (lnglesby) and Phil (llickeyl helped me out and stepped up." Garrity said. "Guys like Antoni Wyclw. Jimmy Dillon and Phil getting the rebounds and putting thnm back really picked up thn slack." 
It was lnglesby who took a pass from Dillon and hit a three-pointer with 5:21 left in the game to give the Irish a 6:{­62 lead they would hold fur a minute. 
And then it was Dillon who took a pass from lnglosby and turned it into another throe­point basket that gav1~ Notre Dame the lead for good with 
2:46 rnmaining. 
lnglesby l'inished with 15 points. Wydw and Hickey earh scornd 1:{, and Dillon sank 8. five of' them coming on that threu-pointer and two l'roe throws with less than a minute to go in the game. 
So what last night's game may turn out to be is a smooth transition. the passing of' the torch from the oxiting veterans to the young nudeus that will benelit from next year's arrival of MacLeod's best reeruiting class at Notre Dame. 
But if the Irish play the rest of their games the way they did last night, we may have tlw chance to see a few more. 
Or, as Manner suggested, maybe not. 
& OPEN HOUSE SAT.. FEB. 28 • 1 0-6 
FREE Coffee & Cookies. Over I 0 different vendors with 
• Incense • Figurines • Macrame • · 
• T-shirts • Used Books • Aromatherapy 
& Massage Oils • Jewelry • Toys • Beautiful Florals & Lots More DOOR PRIZE DRAWINGS 
1408 ELWOOD AVE SOUTH BEND 219-234-9964 



Calendar of Events 
Applications for NDE #51 ( 
a 
Monday-Friday, February 2&27 103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshmen Retreat #16 for resijr\s of Alumni, Breen­Phillips, Howard, Keough, Keen~;Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerllla West and Sorin. Friday-Saturday, February 27­
Learning To Talk About R:.t~A ltAfrAat 
Friday-Saturday, February 
Notre Dame Encounter 
Friday-Sunday, Feb. 27 Fatima Retreat Center 
Rejoice! Black Catholic · 
Basilica of the Sacred Guest Celebrant: Rev. FrfwrarrtRr~ 
"A Glimpse Into the 
will be on exhtblt. 
-.y.:;:;~;-~: . :: ·: : 

Does your relationship have.afuture? Shoul(l your rela­

-~~·=·=·= .. :.. ... 

tionship have afuture? On Stii'iday; M Ministry will offer the program ·~~at;~ This Relationship?", an opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships. For more information, or to register for the program, call 631·5242 and ask for Chris Etzel, Sylvia or John Dillon. 
First Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Preslders  
at Sacred Heart Basilica  
Saturday, February 28  
5:00p.m.  
Rev. Robert Moss. C.S.C.  
Sunday, March 1  
10:00 a.m.  
Rev. William A. Wack, C.S.C.  
11:45 a.m.  
Rev. Edward Branch  
Sunday Vespers  
Basilica of the Sacred Heart  
March 1  
7:15p.m.  
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C.  
Scripture Readings  
1st Reading  Deuteronomy  26:4c1Q  
2nd Reading  Romans.  10:8-13  
Gospel  Luke  4:1-13  

LENT ME YOUR EAR 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

Earlier this month would have been my parents forty-seventh wedding anniversary. In fact, they only had fifteen years together before my father died at the age of forty-two. My mother was expecting her tenth child when he died, and the oldest was fourteen. I was near the tail end of the brood, the eighth child, (my twin was ninth, a detail of which I often remind him) and four years old when my Dad died. I have long said that I did not lose a father in the same way that several of my older siblings did. They knew him; I didn't. I never felt as though I lost my father because I don't ever remember having one. (I realize psychologists would have a field day with that line!) What I did have, were those through whom God made up all the difference, my mother and my siblings. 
We live our lives sometimes convinced that we must certainly have it worse than everyone else in the world, but there are other times when we know ourselves to be so very much blessed, perhaps feeling in that moment of revelation, more blessed than anyone else in the world. What's the constant? What's the one thing that allows us to ride the waves which are, for us, sometimes the best of times and, at times, the worst. Dare I presume to be the one to say? I am · no mystic, I can't even claim to be a theologian, but I am a Christian; 
and I do believe that that which undergirds all that I am and all that I do is God. Even in my most unhappy moments, I am sustained by a deep undercurrent of surety and even joy at the knowledge and experience of a God so great and so loving. Admittedly, there are times when that presence seems more evident than others, but on the whole, it is what sustains me. 
We have entered into a liturgical season when all of us can take time to consider, more deeply the ways in which God is active and present in our lives, in the joy and in the sorrow, in the delight and in the pain. Lent affords us an opportunity to consider the ways in which that undercurrent has weaved its way through the mean­derings of our lives and refreshed and sustained us along the way. In the Catholic tradition we are particularly blessed with a multitude of ways to enter into this holy season, many of which will be publi­cized on this page throughout Lent. Our tradition is rich with sym­bols and with self-sacrifice, beginning yesterday with Ash Wednesday. Throughout Lent we have ample opportunity to renew our journey of faith, through daily Eucharist, the Stations of the Cross, daily prayer with the Rosary or simply in the quiet, and many other forms of prayer and piety. Only to the degree that we enter into the richness and self-sacrifice of this season, will Easter be for us all that it remembers and celebrates even now, the resurrection of Jesus. 
When my Dad died, some suggested that perhaps my Mom should consider splitting up the children among relatives because of the great financi~l and emotional burden that she would undoubted­ly bear. She would hear none of it. She was trained and had worked as a nurse before she was married, and six months after my little sis­ter, Susie, was born, she went back to nursing. She worked, appro­priately enough, in obstetrics, an area about which she had come to know a great deal over time! For fourteen years, she chose to work the llpm to 7am shift so that she could be home to wake us, feedus, and see us off to school, and so that she could be home upon our return. Mom's life wasn't then, and isn't now, some thirty years later, only about her. It's about us. It's about her children, her grandchildren, and her many friends. It's about family and church. It's about faith and hope even in the face of death and despair. It's about the very thing which we absurdly propose to commemorate during this Lenten season, that in God, life is found in death. 
It's not always easy to trust in God, especially when life sometimes seems to offer us only pain and fear. But, as Christians, we believe that there is redemption in the suffering, that in some way we have entered into the sufferings of Jesus, so as to enter into His glory. Let this Lenten season be a time for us to enter into the mystery which is life and death and life again. 

(l\MPUSMINISTRY 

.-------------------------------------------------------------­
Thursday, February 26, 1998

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BASEBALL 
Irish open home season with win over Chippewas 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST "Here's a kid who went back Editor-in-Chief home to Miami and got shelled. But he came back today and Forget the warm climate of pitched a great game," head sunny Florida. The Irish base­coaeh Paul Mainieri said. "lie ball team will take February was able to throw three pitches baseball in South Bend instead. -fastball. curveball. and 
Coming off a three-game changeup -for strikes. When sweep at the hands of the sev­enth-ranked Miami Hurricanes 
Notre Dame 7, 

last weekend. the Irish opened the home half of their sehedule 
Central Michigan 5 

with a 7-5 victory over the Central Miehigan Chippewas yesterday. you throw three pitches fo1· 
Freshman relief pitcher strikes, you're going to win." Danny Tamayo retired 10 of the Tamayo sought to redeem first 11 batters he faced, ell'ec­himself after his performance in tive1y shutting down Central Miami. Mid1igan's ofTense and allowing "[Against the llurricanes,l I 
Notre Dame to overcome a 4-3 didn't pitch as well as I wanted ddieit when fellow freshman to, so I made it a point to pitch Alec Porzel hit a two-run homer well the next time I went out," in the sixth inning. he said. "Today I was hitting 
Tamayo's performance was a the spots well. My changeup eompletn reversal from his only had a lot of movement." outing against Miami. when in In the seventh inning, with Saturday's 27-2 loss he gave up the Irish holding on to a 5-4 two grand slams in one inning. lead, Tamayo faced the second, 
Tamayo, a native of Miami, was third and fourth hitters in the part of a pitching staff that sur­Chippewa line-up -and retired rendered 62 runs on 58 hits them in order, ending the and 22 walks in the three-game inning with a strikeout. 
series. "After facing the heart of the But yesterday, Tamayo (1-1) Hurricanes' batting order, it's provided almost impeccable not so intimidating to face the pitching control, striking out two-, three-, and four-hitters in seven and walking none. any other lineup," Mainieri joked after t h e
Notre Dame 7, Central Michigan 5 
game. 
Central Michigan Notre Dame 
The 
AB R H Bl ABA H Bl 
Irish 
Brian Tyo 112 0 0 0 Allen Greene ct 5 1 2 2 
began
Jeremy Wilson If 0 0 0 0 J.J. Brock sa 4000 
their
Chris Sugglt prilf 2 0 0 0 Jeff Felker rf 3000 Rick Hollern rf 52 3 1 Ben Cooke rf 0 0 0 0 
scoring Greg Jones ss 5 1 1 1 JeffWagnerc 2 0 1 0 
on an Shaun Gragg c 5 0 1 0 Brant Ust 3b 4 1 1 0 
R B I 
Jake Sanborn dh 4 0 2 2 Larry Zlmont dh 4 2 2 0 
ground­
Nick Phillips 2b 4 1 2 0 Alec Porzellf 4 3 2 3 
out by
Rob Rambow cf 4 0 1 0 Todd Frye 2b 4 0 1 1 MattKeim3b 4 0 1 1 D. Leatherman 1b 2 0 0 1 
second Joe Acker 1b 3 0 0 0 
base­Scott Pieratt ph 1 1 1 0 
m a n 
Todd 
Totals 39 5 12 5 Totals 32 7 9 7 
F r y e 
E·Kefm, Brock 2 (4), Tamayo (1). DP·Irlsh 1. LOB·Chippewas 8,1rish 8. 
and a
28-Hollern 2, Phillips, Ust (3), Porzel (2). HR-Greene (2), Porzel (1). SB· 
two-run
Jones, Phillips 2, Keim, Wagner (1), Zfmont (2). CS·Sugglt, Greene (1). SF-Leatherman (1). 
R HE Central Michigan 011 020 001-512 1 Notre Dame 030 002 02x-7 9 3 
IP H R ER BB SO Central Michigan Lee Gardner 3.0 2 3 0 2 4 
S. Jackson (0-1) 4.0 5 3 3 1 0 Phil Roberts 1.0 2 1 1 0 1 Jackson faced one batter In 8th. Notre Dame Aaron Hellman 4.2 1 0 4 4 0 4 
D. Tamayo (1-1) 4.1 2 1 0 0 7 WP-Hellman (2). HBP-by Gardner (Felker), by Hellman (Wllson). Umpires-Home: Joa Yanto. 1st: lou Grumbacker, 3rd: John Thompson. Time·4:22. Attendance-120. 

Gorch 
Games Room 
Now Featuring Located acros~ from till· Computer Lah in tiH· LaFortune Basement
roolball! 
And Be Sure T<l Check Out 
The Ncw Arcade 
Locat<·d Across From h-isl1 Gardens in 
Tl1e LaFortune Basement 
COUPON $a.oo OFF 
Gotch Game• Room T-Shirt and/or One Free Ilour of Pool 
E.1,irn f\.1ard, t:S. ums 

home run by eenter­fielder Allen Greene in the second inning. But the Chippewas seraped back, taking the lead in the fifth inning on two RBI singles and knock­ing out Irish started Aaron Heilman. 
The damage would have been worse if not for Irish catcher Jeff Wagner, who caught pinch runner Chris Suggit stealing just before Hick llollern doubled to left field. 
The Irish overcame the deficit quickly in the sixth inning. Designated hitter Larry Zimont began the inning by handcuffing Chippewa shortstop Greg Jones with a hard-hit ground ball for a base hit. Porzel fol­lowed with a two-run homer to left field on a 1-0 fastball that was belt-high. 

Porzel was at the heart of the Irish oll'ense yesterday, scor­ing two other runs and driving in Brant Ust on a double in the eighth inning. Like Tamayo's outing, Porzel's produc­tivity was a far cry from his performance in Florida, where he went 1-for-8 with three aggressively. The pitching staff aggressive. What I don't want strikeouts. also needed to go after hitters to see is pitchers nibbling and 
"I took a different approaeh to when the count was favorable, going from 0-2 counts to 2-2 or hitting during Tuesday's prac­rather than tentatively aiming 3-2, where the count is in the tice and today's game," Porzel for the eorners of the plate, he hitter's favor. 
said. "In Miami, I found myself said. "Heilman got some strikes up, just looking to make contact. Heilman gave up several hits but he's going to be a great Today, I went up and visualized in clutch situations on 0-2 pitcher," Mainieri added. myself hitting the ball hard. counts, but Mainieri said he Yesterday's game, added to 
"[Tuesday,] all we worked on was pleased to see the fresh­the schedule on Monday in in practice was driving the man pitcher going after the hit­order to take advantage of the ball," he added. ters. dry weather and to make up for 
The focus on hitting the ball "People were hitting him only a previous rainout, was the with authority was one of two beeause he didn't throw those Irish's earliest home opener areas in which Mainieri wanted pitches where he wanted since Feb. 5, 1990, when Notre to see his team play more them," the coach said. "He was Dame faced Illinois. 


THE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE 

y 

E 

A R 
s 

Mabuhacv ng KalaJ~aan 
Fflfpfno Cofsfne an~ Colfoual Enfeufafnmenf 
February 28, 6:00 PM 
STEPAN CENTER $7 GENERAL, $5 STUDENTS DRESSY ATTIRE REQUESTED 
Tickets available at LaFortune Info Desk Brought to you by FASO and OMSA 
-~------~­


Thursday, February 26, 1998 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." page 19 
Biolchini brothers leave mark Rans 
continued from page 24

By TOM STUDEBAKER and DAN LUZIETTI 
"What worked were my jabs Sports Writers 
because he was a little bit shorter than I was," Biolchini The Bengal Bouts tourna­commented about his unani­

ment carries with it a deep tra­
mous decision. "I just stayeddition of excellence, and who 

with my jabs because I was 

better to understand this histo­connecting with them and basi­
ry than sophomore Tom 
cally I stayed away from him 

Biolchini. His family has been because I did not want to risk 
involved in the Bouts for 40 anything." 
years. 
Endurance is the key to suc­

Biolchini's father was a mem­
cess in this year's Bouts and 

ber of the Bengal Bouts during 
Biolchini looked strong

his four years at Notre Dame. 
throughout the fight. While 

He graduated in 1962 as a two­DeSplinter seemed to tire at the 
time champion. Biolchini's 
end of the second, Biolchini brother Doug was the next to had enough energy to go the 

participate in the tournament; distance. 
during his four years, he won 
"It [endurance] is good. I 

three titles. 
was actually testing it in the Toby Biolchini followed suit, third round," Biolchini said. "If but unfortunately did not see as 

I fight Chip [Farrell] in the much success as the prior 

finals, I'm really going to have 

members of the family. 
to go three times the speed so I However, he was the club pres­Previous experiences are pound division. It promises to was really trying to test it." 

ident and left many of his fellow important in Biolchini's devel­be a great fight. This will be The 165-weight class has yet
boxers inspired by his work 
opment as a boxer. He studies Farrell's fourth trip to the to provide a challenge for Rich ethic. 

past bouts and sparring match­finals, and is looking to repeat Molloy. Molloy's semi-final Biolchini looks to this illustri­es, and learns from the mis­last year's performance. opponent, sophmore David ous family history in the tour­takes he has made. He uses this "I expect a lot of combina­Remick, almost made it three 

nament as he approaches his 
knowledge to better prepare tions from Chip." Biolchini stat­rounds before falling victim to 

first finals appearance on 
himself for future fights. ed. "He'll be moving a lot, and a stunning punch. In the third Friday. 

"Last year, l lost to Rich attacking while trying to get round, Molloy landed a vicioius "My family has had quite an Malloy in the semifinals." points from the outside. I also barrage of bunches againstimpact on my personal boxing Biolchini said. "Once you loose, expect him to counter my Remick. The ref called the rareer." Biolchini commented. 

you really learn how to train attacks strongly." fight with 38 seconds remain­

"But l don't really feel any 
more effectively. You know Whatever the outcome of ing in the third. 

pressure from them. They are what to expect from the tourna­Friday night's fight, the Molloy will face senior Jim supportive no matter how l per­ment." Biolchini tradition will continue Sur in the finals. Sur advanced form. My brothers are always Biolchini faces defending Chip to be a trademark of Notre by default, due to a Robert in my corner when l fight." 
Farrell in the finals of the 160-Dame's Bengal Bouts. Miyakawa injury to his arm in his quarterfinal match. 


After last year's loss to cap­tain John Christoforetti, Rans appeared ready to inherent the title. Thus far into the bracket, Rans appears somewhat sur­prised in the ring by the amount of talent which he has faced. His semi-final opponent Alter posed quite a challenge for Rans. Alter relied heavily on his jab and landed a few straight right. Intially, he appeared to be somewhat of a brawler which caught Rans off­guard. 
Rans came out aggressive looking to erase the memory of his slow start in the first round. He dominated the ring in the first round but Alter rallied. Rans used his trademark jab to secure himself his second­straight appearance in the finals. 
Senior Norm Beznoska has dominated the bottom half of the bracket. His quick starts and aggressive style once again· earned him a win. His oppo­nent Travis Alexander couldn't get any offense started. 
"I just tried to throw a lot of different stuff," Beznoska said. "I went both right and left­handed and it worked well. It confused him a little." 
Beznoska's style left Alter stunned. Beznoska advanced by TKO with 43 seconds remaining in the third. 
With the three weight classes boasting No. 1 versus No.2 finals, those craving an upset might just get what they are looking for. 

Applicationsfor Student Go'Vernment 
':l(\

positions in the Cesllrp/Selak 
administration are n, :J;.  'Vailable  
in the Studeut Go'VeJ4~e  t Office  
.,:lJj][{  

(203 LaFortune) till SPring Break. 
Please sign up for an interview when you pick up an application. If you have any questions, Call 631-4522 
·PIJTTJNG STIJBENTS FIRST! .. 

----~----­




GAL 

~.tijlt;h Annual Bengal108ts Semifinals 
I 
Matt Peacock del. Patrick O'Shaughnessy IChip Farrell del. Timothy DeFors David Frick del. Brian Rigney ~Thomas Biolchini del. John DeSplinter 
. David Seerveld del. Matthew Altman IRichard Molloy del. Dave Remick 
~ Jeremy Leatherby del. Martin Garry ~James Sur del. Robert Miyakawa 
I 
Tom Will del. Camilo Rueda IRyan Rans del. Robert Alter 
Lucas Molina del. Matthew McBurney ~Norm Beznoska del. Travis Alexander 
ISean Sharpe del. Michael Valle I Brian Gaffney del. Keith Parendo ~Michael Maguire del. Thomas Cranley ~Chris Dobranski del. Brian Hobbins 
I
J.R. Mellin del. David Bann IMike Romanchek del. Kyle Smith David Murphy del. Dennis Joyce aDaniel Prince del. Joey Leniski 
. Fred Kelly del. Jeevan Subbiah I Dave Butz del. Matthew Lubbers 
~ Stefan Molina del. Tom Owens Andrew Hebert del. Timothy Neagle
B 

By ALLISON KRILLA faster." head combinations to wear Sports Writer In the final, Gaffney faces Chris Smith down. Dobranski, who posted a unani­Friday's 180-pound final may The stars eame out last night mous decision victory over fresh­turn out be the best of the night, 
IMichael LaDuke del. Jeffery Dobosh ~Dave Monahan del. Andrew Riederer
for the 68th annual Bengal Boul'i man Brian Hobbins. The slow­pitting Romanchek against Dan 
~Adrian Cardona del. David Wiltse ~Peter Ryan del. Michael Romero
semifinal round. tempo first round gave way to an Prince, a unanimous decision A handful of boxers in the 175-all-out brawl won by the experi­victor over Joey Leniski. Prince pound through heavyweight divi­enced Dobranski. The senior had and Leniski slugged it out in one 
Lubbers, who lasted 23 seconds heavyweight division, setting upsions saw stars as the heavy-hit­fire in his eyes in the third of the evening's bloodiest battles. 
into the second after two stand­a final bout with freshman phe­ters pulled out all the stops with round, landing an abundance of "Monday night and tonight ing eight counl'i in the first. nom Pete Hyan. 
a trip to Friday's finals on the hooks and adding a body slam were both a couple of brawls out 
But it was Tim Neagle who Hyan's quickness and pure
line. after the two lighters got tangled there," said Prince. "I just knew I saw stars after the hard-hitting strength enabled the freshmanBrian Gaffney's second fight of ncar the ropes. A late third had to go out there throwing and fighting." Hebert landed a round of combi­to keep Mike Homero on thethe week ended in much the round jab sent Hobbins stagger­nations. defensive. The flustered Homero same way as the first -a TKO ing and nearly ended the bout. Prince and Romanchek both "I was just going after him landed few jabs, while absorbing just one minute and 29 seconds Mike Romanchek's win over have a similar fighting style, with the combinations and fol­a flurry of body shots from Hyan.
into the fight. Keith Parendo Kyle Smith in the 180-pound being short and stocky, but lowing it up when he was mov­"I was a little bit nervous whenmanaged to throw several division may not have been the Prince hopes his new-found high ing back," said Hebert. I started," said Hyan. "I didn'tpunches, but Gaffney's barrage biggest brawl, but it epitomized leg kick on the jab will provide The Hebert vs. Butz bout expect to have to throw any body of body blows kept Parendo on the spirit of Ben gals. an edge. Romanchek will focus promises to be a greater test for punches, so it took me a wholr.
the defensive before a few well­"(Fighting Smith) was so much on more upper body movement both fighters. round to adjust.
placed uppercuts finished him fun," said Romanchek. "We were and the mental toughness to "Butz is a heavy puncher," "I think my biggest advantage oil'. out there smiling at each other throw straighter punches. 
said Hebert. "He's got the knock­is that I got lucky enough to be"Every fight I'm able to see and laughing. We were talking Junior Dave Butz and senior out punch, so I'll have to look out heavy, to get in with these !,'Uys
things that I've never seen the whole time on deck just Andy Hebert made the most of for that one. And hopefully it'll who are a little bit slower." 
· before -little openings, sweet about how much fun we were their first fights of the year, last three rounds." Ryan and thr. other finalistsspots," said Gaffney. "The fight going to have. We really had a earning TKOs in the second Defending champion Dave hope Friday night will be anoth­goes as fast as it did before, but good time." rounds of their respective bouts. 
Monahan earned a split decision er star-studded event for themy mind's starting to catch up Homanchek worked the taller With a mix of hooks, crosses victory over Andy Riederer in the opposition.
and I'm able to read things Smith inside, landing solid body-and jabs, Butz pummeled Matt 
Cardona, Wiltse tesflhe fles of friendship 
By MIKE DAY of margins. pound finalist Lucas, used his Sporn Editor ''That's the best fight I've ever aggressive, charging style to seon him put on. I've got a bust­upend Owens. Molina and Kelly 
The boxing ring is no place for ed lip to prove it," said Cardona. will square off on Friday in what friendship. That's what Adrian Cardona will now meet top promises to be one of the night'S Cardona and David Wiltse found SMd Mike Laduke, who top matchups; . out on Wednesday night. advanced with a split decision Following the theme of the 
A cruel twist of fate pitted the victory over No. 5 Jeffrey night, the top-two seeds in the two friends and training part­Dobose. 145-pound division advanced to ners in the ring together in the Tho competition wasn't nearly Friday's finals. Second-seed semifinals of the 68th annual as fierce in the 150-pound divi­Dave Murphy tangled with No. 3 Bengal Bouts. Despite the sion. The top two seeds. Fred Dennis Joyce, and after three unusual circumstances, Cardona Kelly and Stefan Molina, rolled hard-fought r<nmds, emerged and Wiltse engaged in perhaps to unanimous decision victories with a split decision victory. the night's most entertaining over Jeevan Subbiah and Tom In the other half of the brack­fight. Owens, respectively. et, J.R. Mellin managed to avoid 
"It was really hard because After struggling somewhat in being rusty after sitting out WH had trained so hard togeth­his quarterfinal mateh against Monday's quarterfinals with a er, and we aro good friends out­freshman Dennis Abdelnour, bye. The top seed won by unani­side of the ring," said Cardona. Kelly bounced back in convinc­mous decision despite a strong "Once you get Into a ring, you ing fashion, dominating Subbiah effort from No. 5 David Bann; tend to forget about being for the entire three rounds. "He (Ban:!l)was a lot stronger friends. You're thinking more "I just tried to keep my cool in than I thought he would be, and about giving him a busted lip or there tonight," said Kelly. "The he was coming on top of me the a broken nose." other night going in there whole fight," said Mellin. 
After the pair brawled like against a southpaw I really "I would have been smarter to streetfighters for three action­wasn't sure how to handle it and step back and punch, but 1 packed rounds, the outcome I kind of exploded. I wanted to decided ·to stick in there and came down to a split decision. keep my nerves in there this punch whictil~ prob.ably. not.. Cardona, the No. 2 seed in the fight, and I think I did." . wise thing to do. But in the · · 155-pound division. ended up on In the other semifinal match, I guess it comes down to who hit tho winning end by the slimmest Molina, the brother of 135~ who the most.l' 

unanimous decision last night. 
.
... 


----~-~------------~----------~---------------------------., 

Thursday, February 26, 1998 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." page 21 
Rematch 'ready to rumble' 
By BETSY BAKER Will knows that there will be pressure Associate Sports Editor on both fighters in the rematch, but also acknowledges that there is added pres­
The anticipation has been building sure on him to hold onto his crown. Still, since the controversial decision was he expects the fight to be down to wire announced nearly a year ago. Regardless again, and is looking forward to it. of the time that has passed, or the talk "Lucas is so strong and well-trained," about not looking past their first fights, Will said of his opponent. "I think there is Tom Will and Lucas Molina know that going to be pressure on both of us, but I their rematch in the 135-pound class will think it is going to be a great fight." be the premiere event of the 68th annual In the 125-pound class, senior Matt Bengal Bouts. Peacock saw four years of hard work 
Last year, Will defeated Molina in a pay ofT, as he came up with his first win split decision in which both fighters had in four years and is heading to the finals. thought they won. Last night, both Will Peacock beat sophomore Pat and Molina looked in top shape in their O'Shaughnessy on a split decision after victories over Camilo Rueda and Matt three rounds ofT eluding his long reach McBurney. After both fighters received and going up and under to the body. first-round byes, Will and Molina were Peacock was the more athletic of the two The Observer/John Daily 
Tommy Will gets advice from a Coach Pat Farrell en route to his unanimous decision win.
able to evade the rustiness often felt fighters, and although O'Shaughnessy from not lighting in the quarterfinals. came back in the second round with a 
to a left-handed opponent and maintain explained. "I knew he was going to beWill used his experienced and patient series of sharp jabs to his face, by round the same stamina he did against Rigney. aggressive, but I guess I came out a littleapproach to wear down the freshman three, Peacock had tired him out. 
The 130-pound final will match up to slow in the first round, and that's notRueda. Rueda put up a good defensive As the top seed last year, Peacock was 
David Seerveld against Jeremy my style."
against Will and was quick in his move­upset by this year's 130-pound finalist 
Leatherby. Seerveld, the "Prancing The second semifinal matched up
ment around the ring, but unfortunately David Seerveld, leaving his goal unac­Pixie," did exactly what he said he was sophomore Mike Maguire and the guyfor him, he was left moving around the complished. And while he is excited to be going to do -prance around the ring who got him involved in Bengal Bouts,ring, away from the charging Will. in the finals, nothing would make his four and defeat Matt Altman. junior Tom Cranley. Although MaguireMolina, on the other hand, came out of years more worth it than the title. 
There existed no height advantage professes much respect for Cranley out­the blocks swinging, using his speed and "This is great. This is what I've wanted between the two fighters, a factor that side of the ring, there was no room for power to overcome McBurney. Despite a for the last four years," Peacock said. "I usually plays into the lower-weight class­respect inside the ring, as Maguire bat-few quick jabs McBurney was able to really couldn't tell [if I had won]. I knew es' bouts, so the two were left battling . tied Cranley to a split decision which fellland in the first round, Molina went he threw a lot and he landed a lot, but I eachother with jab after jab. in his favor. 
straight to his body, eventually stunning also know that I defended a lot." 
The fight was stopped twice due to a "It was hard to get motivated againsthim, forcing the referee to stop the fight. In the other 125~pound bout, Dave bleeding Altman, before Seerveld finally Tom because he is the one who got meStill, neither pugilist is counting on Frick defeated Brian Rigney in a unani­finished the freshman in a unanimous started last year," Maguire. "He's a greatbeing able to outsmart or overpower his mous decision. It was an offensive battle decision. fighter so I just tried to get inside and opponent. as both fighters came out swinging, with In the 140-pound semifinal, senior cap­score as many points as possible.
"I wanted to work on my jab a lot more Rigney going to the body and Frick rely­

-
tain Sean Sharpe beat freshman Mike Maguire started to get tired late in thebecause I'm definitely going to have to ing more on his left jab. 
Valle in one of the closer bouts of the bout, but the thought of advancinguse that a whole lot more against Tommy After a strong first-round performance, evening. After being forced up against helped him maintain his endurance. 
on Friday," Molina commented on his Rigney was able to duck a lot of Frick's the ropes early the bout by Valle's left "I just wanted to make it to friday real­fight against McBurney. "Unfortunately, I punches, but at the same time, wore him­jab, Sharpe was able to come out in ly bad, and I had a minute and a halfdidn't even have to use my jab tonight, I self out for the end of the second and round two with a left jab of his own and left," he said. "I don't know where it was able to walk right in and do a power throughout the third round. 
basically even the battle from there. came from, but I was able to keep going." 
punch. I didn't get to work on what I Although Frick has sparred with "I was a little disappointed that I left it wanted to. but I'll take the win any day." Peacock in training, he will have to adjust 
l
a little too much to the judges," Sharpe 
l 

Freshmen fight for finals 
I

BENGAL 
By SHANNON RYAN rounds. far," he said. "I went in it just for Sporrs Writer After a Monday night destruc­the training. I didn't imagine I'd 
Semifinal 
l 
tion of senior Brendan Reilly, win the first fight, and I'm really 
l 

They're few. They're impres­Cardona carried his powerful happy I just won." Best Fight David Wiltse vs. Adrian Cardona 
sive. They're mean. They're punch with him to defeat Wiltse The smiles may continue 
1

Cardona in a split decision 
young. by a split decision. Friday if "EI Machingon" can 
l

Of 18 freshmen. only three In the feisty fight where continue the upsets with a win advanced through in last night's punches were thrown equally as over junior captain Mike 
semi-finals ofthe Bengal Bouts. wild, it was the Cardona combi­LaDuke. Best Tom Biolchini vs. John DeSplinter 
. i
The highlight of the surprise nation that took care of busi­LaDuke has the experience, Crowdpleaser Biolchini in a unanimous decision 
~

final round bids came in what ness. the height advantage and the 
1 

the emcee dubbed the "battle of "I wanted to go in punching," skill. However, Cardona claims 
1 

the freshmen." said the Texas native who kept to have the desire that it takes. 
l

Adrian Cardona and David his feet dancing the entire 'Tm just going to go out there Wiltse probably knew what to match. "I try to go in there and try to really beat him up," expect from the other in the pumped up and not let up." he said. "If I don't have the skill, 155-pound weight class consid­Cardona poured it on in the I'm just going to punch and try 
i 
1 
I I

ering they're best friends. third round, attacking Wiltse different things." 
O'Neill residents. and training and wowing the audience with With longer rounds. Cardona 
I I

partners. his right hook. plans on using every second to 
I 

Although the two seemed The elated Cardona was more his advantage. 
I I I

equally matched, height-wise shocked than anyone of his sur­"I want to get in every punch 
and skill-wise it was Cardona prising success. that I can in the time I have." 
I I

who came out on top after three ''I'm amazed that I got this That seemed to work in the 
I 
130-pound weight class, as 

successfully in the heavyweights. pull out a victory over last year's l' 
Jeremy Leatherby bombarded I
After a bye in the quarterfi­heavyweight champion David I
Martin Garry with his combina­I
nals, Ryan walloped Michael Monahan. I
tion swings after a bye in the I
Romero, not allowing the last ''I'm scared," Ryan admitted. ,quarterfinals. 
name intimidate him. "We sparred in practice and he
Despite a height disadvantage, 

The leaner Ryan relied on his broke my nose."
Leatherby used the body punch uppercut and more heavily than Whether noses will be broken to his gain. 

he expected on the body punch or bleeding, the three advancing
"He got some good punches 

to win the split decision. freshman are just anxious to getin," the first year Siegfried man "I was surprised I had to go to in the ring again. The inexperi­said. "But I went to the body the body," Ryan said. "''ve never enced trio have caused a fewthen gave him the hook." 
really had to in practice before. eyebrows to raise so far. andIn the first round, Leatherby's ­
I'm usually taller and have to Friday promises a few surprisesright hook sent Garry into the punch down." as well.
rings. From then on, the fresh­

But even with little experi­But these youngsters don't man dominated the attack to 
ence, Ryan had no trouble work­want to rely on beginner's luck­win by a unanimous decision. 
ing out first match jitters. they want to earn the title cham­
"I guess I just got lucky," 

"It's my first tournament so I pion. •Leatherby said of his first Bengal was nervous," he said. "I just let ''I'm willing to try whateverBout fight and win. "I just gave it my instinct and training kick in." works for a win," said Cardona up to God and then went to it." 
Even though skill and intuition with his eyes fastened on a
Keenan freshman Peter Ryan

The Observer/John Daily worked against Romero, Ryan Friday night underdog champi­
seemed to be going at it just as

Jeremy Leatherby (right) is one of three freshmen to advance to the finals. may not have the confidence to onship. 

page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, February 26, 1998 
• SAINT MARY's BASKETBAll 
Belles look to end season with homecourt advantage 
By JANICE WEIERS 
Sports Writer 
It was a long ride home for the Saint Mary's basketball team Tuesday night, and not just because they were on the road li1r three hours. 
In its last road contest of the season, Saint Mary's was beaten by Siena Heights College, 62-84. 
I lead coach David Hoeder had plenty of time to mull over the game on the way honw. IIn does not believe that his team was playing with the ability that they have and feels it was an oil' night. 
"We didn't shoot very well and we played poor defense," said Hoeder. "We've got to have better eflicieney on defense. We need to rebound more." 
It was not only the oiTense that was shooting poorly, or the defense that was not defending, it was the two combined that caused a big problem for the Belles. 
"Siena Heights did a good job disrupt­ing our oiTense," said Roeder. 
Senior Darcy Nikes added, "The other girls were taller. When you're faced with tall girls and you don't have weak­side help, it shows." 
Although only 33 percent of the Belles' shots found the net, four players man­aged to score in the double ligures. Nikes delivered 21 points, freshman Julie Norman contributed 19, senior Julie McGill tossed in 12 and senior Brenda Hoban added 10 to lead the Belles' effort. 
"The inaccurate shooting is a problem. But so is the lack of excitement on the court. We were really lacking energy in the beginning," said junior Charlotte Albrecht. "Usually somewhere you hit a spurt of energy and start to catch up. We never had that spurt. We were fiat the whole game." 
This week in practice, the Belles will be working on playing the game the way that they can. And have. 
Saint Mary's hosts Aurora University this Friday. It will be the last entry in the 1997-98 Saint Mary's basketball diary, and it is the final game for the seniors. 
Nikes, a senior starter. expressed both excitement and sadness about the coming game. "I don't know what to feel," she said. "I have butterflies but yet I'm excited." 
The seniors will play in their final col­legiate basketball game Friday night at 7 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 


The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 

Coach Roeder hopes to rebound after the loss. 
Georgetown's Boubacar Aw. get the buckets or get to the three guard line-up as "We had been working real 
The players were tangled up in line and Garrity got to the line lngelsby, Wyche, and Dillon hard but it hasn't been fitting the post and were called for tonight," Thompson said. were on the floor at the same together and tonight it did," continued from page 24 double fouls. Garrity also hauled in nine time against a small quick MacLeod continued. Hickey gave Aw an earful rebounds, just missing his Georgetown team. "It was a huge win for us 
and then Georgetown's senior fourth double-double in five "They played real well and hopefully we can get some Hickey said. "Tonight we had captain shoved llickey in the games. Garrity now finds him­together and we thought that confidence going to the last different people step up at dif­face drawing the attention of self just 17 points behind we needed guys who could game," llickey said. 
Hoops 
ferent times and that's a great 
official Ted Valentine. David Rivers for third on Notre handle the ball against "With a little bit of' confi­thing to happen because it "I think it was just a ease of Dame's all-time scoring list. Georgetown's defense," dence hopefully it can extend takes the pressure of those 
two kids battling real hard," Notre Dame also featured a MacLeod said. our season." who were hot." Georgetown coach John With their backs up against Thompson said. "The Four 
the wall, the Irish came Do you love your planet? Please recycle The Observer
Horsemen and all those sorts through with the big win as its of people would have been record now stands at 13-12 proud (of Hickey)." and 7-10 in the Big East with Valentine called three tech­just one regular season game nical fouls, including the fla­remaining. grant one on Aw that means 
Intensive Coursework in Spanish 
"You don't want to say it was an automatic ejection. A tech­a do or die situation, 

but we nical was also called on Language and Culture needed that W," MacLeod said. 
Garrity in the second half. 

"This was a big win for us." 
Tuesday night Valentine had Courses taught in English in the
After a 20 point loss to the a run-in with Indiana Hoosier 

Hoyas earlier this month, the Following Areas: 
coach Bobby Knight who was -Irish had to figure out what 

ejected after three technical • Europe in the 20th Centurythey were going to do. fouls. Knight later called the "We were prepared for last officiating "the greatest trav­• Contemporary Spain 
game, but we didn't execute esty" he had ever seen as a 
like we did last time," Hickey coach. • International Marketing said. But the Hoyas and the Irish 
• International Economics 
Freshman Martin lngelsby continued to fight as neither 

was simply all over the place team would go away and both • European-Atlantic Nations as he scored 15 points on 5-squads were able to match for-6 shooting including 3-for-each other's big shots. 
Direct Enrollment courses in many 
4 from three-point land. Notre Dame shot a scintillat­lngelsby also racked up seven ing 51 percent from the field disciplines at the Universidad Autonoma assists and five steals while and 79 percent from the chari­
de Madrid 

only committing one turnover. 
ty stripe, led by Garrity who 
"I came out with a lot of con­

was 15-for-19. fidence and my shots were "There's nothing like shoot­OW's Madrid Study Center is the only falling the first half, so that 
ing the ball in the basket and U.S. study abroad program fully situated 
helped me the rest of the 
we did that tonight." MacLeod 

at the prestigious Universidad Autonoma
way," lngelsby said. said. "We shot much better at The Irish overcame a slug­the free throw line, particular­de Madrid 
gish start a& Garrity shot 1-ly down the stretch." for-7 in the first half. The 
Lead by Shernard Long and squad found itself down 14-17, 
Trez Kilpatrick, Georgetown 

Application Deadline: March 13, 1998 
• but lngelsby did his best Pat shot 46 percent in the game 
For a program description and 
Garrity impersonation as he and were 6-for-9 from long put the team on his back. application, e-mail us at:
range. Long gave the Irish 

Ingelsby's sharp shooting kept defense fits as he went 11-for-studyabr@ www.gwu.edu his squad close scoring 12 20 for a game high 26 points
straight Irish points before a and Kilpatrick added 17. Garrity free throw tied the Garrity overcame 4-for-13 game at 25 with four minutes shooting by continuing to bat­Office for Study Abroad 
left in the half. 
tle in the post and earn his The George Washington University 
"Martin lngelsby. for the first chances at the free throw line. 

2013 G St., NW
time in a long time, showed "lie may have been laboring 
Stuart Hall 

that he has his confidence 
a bit there, he did not get a 

back in that stroh," MaeLeod Washington, D.C. 20052
breather," MacLeod said. "But said. he did what good players are (202) 994-1649 The end of the first half also suppose to do, he made a lot of www.gwu.edu/-studyabr
saw some extracurricular 
those free throws." 

activity between Hickey and "A sign of a good player is to 
GW is an equal opportunity/affirmative action institution. 
Tennis 

ND Hockey
Women: 
vs. Syracuse Friday @ 4pm 
. .

-vs. Minnesota Saturday @ 9am 
vs. ortheln Mich.i~"'l 
vs. Kansas Sunday@ lpm 

Fl.-i. ~~ Sat. @7pm
Men:

• 
vs. Wisconsin Saturday @ lpm Free Admission to first 300 students! 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 

Thurdy, February 26, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
FoR I HoSE or You wHo ARE 
DtVovl 1'1E/v ABOU/ CAMpus FltfJS \J u PRoBABLY HAVE N6T/cebiH LrgCI<. of ;¥\.AXIJELL ANt> DW1oNl) JIM 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
er Buhba Smith. 



FRO I"\ NOW ON, A 
5TRICT DRE55 COO£ WILL C>E ENFORCED IN '<OUR 1401"\E5. 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Scratch the surface of 4 "No b1d" 9 People person 14 Old Foghorn, e.g. 15 "I Fall to Pieces" smger 16 Twmkle-toed 11 Nonsense 18 Pugilistic sweethearts? 20 Irons on stage 22 April honoree 23 Hurricane heading Abbr. 24 Kind of cleaner 25Curlydo 26 Sweater 27 G1rls who love books? 31 Hang 11 alii 
32 Casanova 33 Wa1ting per1od. seemingly 34 It runs in the ram 36 Midwest city where Orson Welles was born 40 Non-earthlings, briefly 
41 Pref1x with dose 
42 Four times a day, 1n prescriptions 43 Dog show event? 46 Seles foe 48 The bulk 49 "Veni, --, vici" so "Frasier'' role 51 ''Minimum" amount 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

1,;,&.;.18~-=+-=+7-f"~~~-EEt=--bi 

enlightening.
0 
u ON 11-\E PLU5 SIDE, IT'S 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): You sense that an impassable barrier 
ONE LESS DECISION I 

lies ahead. Only a tendency to 
HfWE TO 1"\AKE EVERY 

spread yourself too thin can prevent you from enjoying the fmits of your
DAY. 

labor. LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Greater personal effort on your part will 

52 Japanese leader of old 
54 The first four-mmute mile. e.g.? 
57 Band's bookmg 58 Wedding reception. say 59 "Pomp and Circumstance" composer 60 Baton Rouge sch. 
61 Opening books 
62 Color changers 
63lncas' realm, 
e.g.. Abbr. 
DOWN 
1 Oregano shelfmate 2 Plant used for skin lotions 3 Getaways 4 Part of a nuclear 
5 Ruse Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
6 ·---en­Provence 7 Cold sufferer's sound a Lady of Ia cas a 9 Telephone 10 Cause of  28 Breathing fire 29 Viking shipmate 30 Destroyer detector 35 Old "What's My Line" panelist  45 A,b -­(from day one) 46 White collar crime 47 "Anse, fair sun, and kill the  51 In the company of 52 Slash mark? 53 That lady's 55 When doubled, a Gabor  
conflict, maybe 11 Adds zest to 121985 Nelligan film  36 Ohio college town 37 Tilde, e.g. JB Brahman's  envious moon" speaker  56 Wine improver  

belief Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 13 Under siege are available by touch-tone phone: 39 Making sense
19 Z1 p 
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
41 Cheap 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 25 Oaxaca water 43 Marketplace best of Sunday crosswords from the last 26 Lotto var1ant 44 Tenacious 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY! IN THE NEXT YEAR OF YOUR LIFE: Build a base of public support for a cause close to your heart. Your gen­erous contributions to community life will receive fresh attention in early summer. A new alliance helps you forget an old disappointment: Family life becomes more reward­ing than in the recent past. Academ­ic endeavors will boost your earning power. Seek a special license or cer­tificate. Real estate is an excellent field for someone who enjoys get­ting out from behind their desk. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: actress Bernadette 
Peters, hockey player Eric Lindros. actor Gavin MacLeod, football play­
MIKE PETERS 

ARIES !March 21-April 19): A good day for buying and selling home-related items: You find just what you need to beautify your sur­roundings. Visit a Oea market or secondhand store in search of tiny treasures. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): There is new emphasis on prepara­tion. You must get over your reluc­tance to plan things in detail. 'Final­izing a business transaction goes smoothly once you arrive at a dollar figure. 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): An unexpected offer should be snapped up before the other person changes her mind. A close encounter with a potential romantic partner proves bring an ambitious venture to a suc­cessful conclusion. Get any financial agreements in writing, even when dealing with friends and relatives. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): There is a need to set limits now. Making too many commitments could leave you exhausted or broke. Even if a f1iend or relative comes to your rescue. the cost could be high. 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Working quietly behind the scenes will be more effective than making a hig splash. Think things through before taking action. Experience is the best teacher. 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): A good day to stay on the sidelines and draw your own conclusions. Higher profits are linked to the discovery of a new market. A rigid attitude will prolong a dispute. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21 ): Try not to make a mountain out of a molehill. Accept a sincere apol­ogy with good grace. If you want teen-agers to confide in you, do more listening than talking. 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Some gossip circulating now may be false. Your persistence helps you triumph where others have failed. Tap all available sources of information until you get the answers you seek. 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Unless you curb your impatience, you risk a major confrontation. Remember, many people cannot stand criticism, no matter how con­structive it may be. 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Staying close to home this weekend will give you a chance to relax and unwind. Rely on fax or"the phone to relay important information. A rela­tionship that has been neglected can still be salvaged. 
.. 


~------------------------------------------------------------­
SPORTS 

page 24 
• MEN'S BASKETBALl 
ilrrtl~Thl cru~nuw~rr ~®~Jh~Dllil ~Dllill 
Those blows carne in the hopefully they can build on this

Irish close at 
form of back-to-hack three momentum. pointers from Jimmy Dillon and "We've let a couple of games

home with win, Pat Garrity, and clutch free slip away at the end," freshman throws down the stretch sealed guard Martin Ingelsby said. "It the contest. helps our confidence to know
look ahead 
·"It was an excellent college that we can win a game like By JOE CAVATO 
basket b a II Men•s lh•slte1tb this. Hopefully

Assistant Sports Editor game. both we can go into teams went Providence and For those who wanted to sec after each play well 
a great light. the Bengal Bouts other," head there." in the south dome of the Joyce coach John Last night Center was not the place to see MacLeod Notre Dame 
it. Instead. the north dome and said. "This fans saw some-
the basketball game was the was a game N 0 t r e D 3 m e 7 9 thing that has 
place to be. where there been absent Georgetown and Notre Dame was not G e 0 r get 0 w n 6 9 practically all 
battled each other with every­much of an year long, a thing each squad had for 37 edge either way. scoring attack. minutes until the Irish finally "It was great basketball Every player wearing the 
delivered the knock-out blows tonight," center Phil Hickey Blue and Gold who saw signifi­
in its 79-69 win. said. "When both teams are on cant minutes made solid offen­fire like that sive contributions. it makes for Led again by Garrity, who an exciting lived at the free throw line game." where he got 15 of his 24 
The con-points, the team posted four test defined players in double figures. the term Ingelsby scored 15 while Antoni "see.-saw Wyche and Phil Hickey each 

game," with added 13. By DAN CICHALSKI In order to go to the big nine ties Dillon chipped in eight, pro-Assistant Managing Editor danee rather than the SYH, the and nine viding a spark on defense with Irish will likely have to win at I e a d four steals in just 21 minutes, Derek Manner would like last Providence Saturday and changes. including one that set up a night's 79-69 victory against sweep the Big East tournament 
T h e Garrity three-pointer that Georgetown to be his final in New York next weeknnd. H o y a s ' pushed the Irish lead to 71-67 home game for the Notre Dame But a trip to the NIT will biggest lead with just two minutes left. men's basketball team. probably mean more games at was only On senior night, Derek He did not actually say it that the Joyce Center for Manner six, while a Manner ended his dreadful 0-way, but he meant it. and Notre Dame's national 16-2 run in for-14 streak in his last two "We'd like to turn the table in player-of-tlw-year candidate, the final games to go 3-for-4 for six the Big East tournament and Pat Garrity. minutes by points in 22 minutes. that's what we're planning to "I wasn't thinking ~lf this the Irish "That was the first time in do," Manner said after the game as our last home game," gave them quite awhile we had that kind game. "We beat all the top Garrity said. "On the line was t h e i r of balance," MacLeod said. teams in the conference, now our ability to play horne bas­b i g g e s t "The great thing tonight was we need to beat the others. ketball games. We're playing lead. The that we had a bunch of people "That's the good thing about for survival. It's very satisfying. win was step up around Garrity." the conference tournament: It This should be a good memo­just the sec-"That's what we've been gives us a shot at going to the ry." ond for the looking for all year long," NCAAs. If you concentrate on And it should be a good Irish this the NCAAs, you've got a good 
chance to go to the NIT, too." 

month and see HOOPS I page 22 see BIG EAST I page 16 
• BENGAl BOUTS 
Rans out for finals 
Senior captain breaks both hands in semis 

.. 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ with ease over sophomore Timothy DeFors. The Assistant Sports Edhor top-ranked Farrell showcased his powerful jabs and his ability to control the ring for the entire Some people will go hungry until Friday night light, but perhaps Farrell's strength lies in his con­-all those who have craved an upset in this ditioning, as he managed to pack as strong a year's Bengal Bouts have yet to satisfy their punch in the third as he did in the first. I le won by appetit1~s. unanimous decision despite losing his contact lens 
Perhaps the person who 
in the third round. will go the most hungry 
"I felt like I was able to move around will be senior Hyan Hans . 
the ring well and controlled my oppo­
68th Annual 

nent," Farrell said. "I felt that I could dedsion over Hobert Alter. 
• Hans advanced by split 
move him were I wanted."
Bengal Bouts 

The senior already is anxiously Friday. 
yet, he will not fight on 
anticipating his fourth appearance in Hans broke both his 
the finals. hands in his semifinal bout 
"I am going to keep with my same last night and will not style," Farrell said. "The finals are a compntn in thn finals. The whole different ball game. You captain for thn past two become a little more nervous and tire years. finalist for the past two years and the per­easily because it is the big dance." son who dedicated the majority of his senior year Farrell will face a first-time finalist, sophomore to ensuring a sueenssful Bengal BouL<;, will not be Tom Biolchini. In his fight, Biolchini started off allowed a chanee to win his first championship. quick by almost instantly backing junior John 
All the favorites advaneed in the 160, 165 and DeSplinter into the ropes. DeSplinter tried to 170-pound weight classes last night in the Bouts counter-attack, but few, if any, punches landed. semifinals. 
Ryan Rans' semifinal victory over Robert Alter was marred by the fact
With little surprise, senior Chip Farrell advanced see RANS/ page 19 
that he broke both hands in the fight . 
... 





at Providence, 
Diamond Classic 
~M Friday, 3 p.m. 
Championship 

• Baseball team plays first home game 
at Evansville 

Friday, 7 p.m. 
see page 18
Big East Tournament 

• 
~w 
February 28 -March 3, 
vs. Wisconsin 

• Bengal Bout semifinal coverage 
at Rutgers 
Saturday, 1 p.m. 
see pages 19-21 
vs. Minnesota
vs. Northern Michican
,.,. 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
Saturday, 9 a.m.
~ 






