

VOL XXXII NO. 51 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Mustsee/D? 
Thursday night tavern raids nab underage patrons 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
New• Editor and BRIDGET O'CONNOR Associate News Editor 
Tlwy wm·e out in force. 
South Bend police teams raided at least two local bars and tavc>rns early this morn­ing, issuing eitations for "minor in a tavern'' to stu­d•~nts and establishment own­ers alike. 
Irish Connection and Corby's Pub n~wived visits from what managers dnscribnd as SUDS !Stop Underage Drinking and Sales! tnams -20 to 25 uni­forrm~d oiTicers converging on thnir premises to cheek for undnrag•~ drinking. 
The South Bend police departn11~nt had no comment nt press time. 
"They camn in and asked nveryhody for identifications," said I.e on Townsend. manager at Irish Connnction. "They made two lines: onn for people over 21 and one for pnople underage. There were about :30 or 40 people who got cita­tions, I think. It's hard to say." 
While no minor was charged with consumption and the bar was not shut down, the estab­lishment was issued a citation for minors in a tavern. Townsend asserted that a county police officer had been checking for identif'ica(ion all night. 
"We carded everybody as they canw in. Our responsibili­ty as bar owners is to do the best we can. IDs are highly sophisticated these days," he said. 
.Junior Tim Brnuekman, 20, said he was not asked to show ID upon entering the bar and that the atmosphere was like that of the raid on Bridgot McGuire's Filling Station last .January. lie expects a punish­ment similar to the $212 city finn and $100 University fine issued to those underage stu­dents earlier this year. 
"They didn't even ask to sec 
'THEY CAME IN AND 
ASKED FOR IDENTIFl­CATIONS. THEY MADE TWO 
LINES: ONE FOR PEOPLE 
OVER 21 AND ONE FOR PEo­
PLE UNDERAGE. THERE WERE ABOUT 30 OR 40 PEO­
PLE WHO GOT CITATIONS.' 
LEON TOWNSEND 
ff/ISII CONNECTION MANAGER 

an ID. I guess it really doesn't matter now. We're all pretty sure we're going to get the same thing they got at Bridget's," Breuckman said. 
Unlike January's raid at Bridget's, police officers were not searching for fake lD cards but instead were distin­guishing those over and under 21, asking the latter to submit their names for eitation with 
FRIDAY FEATURE 
or without documentation. 
A similar raid took place at Corby's Pub, but only one stu­dent was issued a citation, according to manager Jason Zolman. 
"Twenty-five cops showed up. They cleaned us out and only busted one person. Corby's wasn't cited though. We had a county cop sitting at the door and a guy watching the back door so that no one would sneak in," Zolman said. 
While other local establish­ments were not targeted, man­agers and bartenders knew of raids going on throughout the area. 
"The bars themselves didn't call, but [we found outl mostly by word of mouth from people who came over from other bars," said Todd Dvorak. a bartender at Finnegan's and Notre Dame senior. 
While The Boat Club was also not raided. bartender Mark Boros described the scene outside the bar. lie said 
there were snveral law enforcement offieials sur­rounding the establishment at approximately 2 a.m. 
"We have cops gathering around the building right now. They're terrifying people," he continued, relating that policn officers were stationed on the street corners between Boat Club and Irish Connection. 
"I can't believn that we didn't lgnt bustnd]," Boros said at 3 a.m., elosing time. "We double cardnd. Whoever wasn't 21 had to leave," he explainnd. "We turned down a lot of poop ln." 
"They gave fair warning at Boat Club," said a Notre Dame senior, noting an announce­ment made by the club's ILl. 
"Basically they said, "Leavo. !-Conn's getting busted and they're on their way here."' 
"Most of the bar left," said an underage Notrn Damn sophomore. 
Coach's Sports Bar manager 
see RAIDS I page 4 

Dome set to reopen next fall 
By DEREK BETCHER 
A.1sistant News Editor 
Exactly 120 years after Father William Corby first weleonwd students and faeulty into the just-com­pleted Main Building, Notre Dame's greatest campus landmark will again rnop1m its doors to the world. 
The two-year, $50 mil­lion renovation of the University's Main Building has followed planners' nxpnctations and will be completed by July, I1JIJIJ. Project man­ag•n·s nstimatn their aggressive task is two­thirds corn pinto. 
"Thn project is definite­ly on seheduln and on budget," confirmed Notre Damn's associate vice 
see DOME I page 6 



Rebuilding Season 
FAST FACTS 
Main Building Construction 
Original Construction: 1879 Rennovation Start: June 1997 

Expected Completion: July 1999 
Cost:  $50 Million  
Labor Force:  175 laborers  
Square Footage:  144,000 sq. ft.  
Windows:  550  

Slate Roofing Squares: 320 New Classrooms: 3 New Elevators: 2 New Library: 1 Architect: Ellerbe Becket Con tri"ctors: The Christman 
Comp~nies 
The Observer/Joe Mueller 

~--------------------------=-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Friday, November 13, 1998 
...
,. 
•i 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Overrated? 
The other day in my 
never ending quest to  Mike Connolly  
avoid doing homework, I  Sporrs Copy Editor  
started thinking about  

college football and all the stupid things that occur in a college football stadium or on a col­lege football field. 
I was thinking about the stupidest thing that I have ever seen in college athletics and I decided that I had to write an Inside Column to put an end to it. 
No, I am not talking about a flying octopus (there has been enough written about this already), Andy Katzamoyer (he couldn't read it anyway) or Lee Corso (really, how does this guy have a job? My little sister knows more about college football than he does). 
I am talking about a cheer -or a jeer ­whatever you want to call it. I am talking about one little, seemingly insignificant and harmless word: overrated. 
We have all heard this cheer. It usually occurs when an underdog defeats a higher­rated team (or if you are an Oregon State fan, 
a.k.a. loser, you chant it when you only lose by seven to UClA). Irish fans were chanting "Overrated" when Bob Davie's squad defeated the defending national champions in our opening game. 
So what's the big deal? We were just mock­ing Michigan, right? It's just a harmless little cheer with deeper meaning. 
Wrong. Let's examine what the cheer "over­rated" really means. Obviously it means that the team that was just defeated was ranked higher than they should have been. 
What proof is there that this team was ranked too high? They just lost. But does losing imply that a team is overrated? 
If #25 Wyoming loses to #1 Tennessee, does this mean that Wyoming was overrated and should drop in the rankings? 
No. Tennessee is supposed to beat Wyoming. There is no reason for Wyoming to drop if they lost to Tennessee. 
Therefore, only if a team loses to a team that they are supposedly better than should they drop in the rankings. 
Therefore, we chant overrated because the team just lost to an inferior team. Right? 
Is it just me or is this really insulting when the "inferior" team happens to be your own team? 
The true meaning of "overrated" is this: You must be overrated because we beat you and if we can beat you, you must not be any good. 
Why are members of a cheering section participating in a cheer that demeans their own team? 
Maybe the team that is supposedly "overrat­ed" is not in fact overrated, but instead, the other team is "underrated"? 
Recent events have shown that we were underrated in the pre-season polls. Week after week we are proving that we are better than our pre-season 24th ranking. With every victory, we climb in the rankings (except for the rankings of the eoaches who hate us because they wish they were coaching here). 
However, recent events are also showing that perhaps Michigan was rated exactly where they should have been. Maybe Michigan really is the fifth best team in the country. They are on track to go 9-2 this year and win the Big 10. 
Maybe Michigan wasn't "overrated"; we were just "underrated". 
So please, with basketball season opening tonight and Coach MacLeod's team sure to pull off some victories over higher ranked teams, don't insult our team by chanting "overrated." Show some respect for their efforts by not demeaning their victories. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News Derek Betcher Erica Thesing Brad Unriedr Sports Kathleen O'Brien Viewpoint Spencer Srefko  Scene Sarah Dylag Krisri Klirsch Graphics Joe Mueller Production Anrhony Bianco Lab Tech Kevin Dalum  

The Ob.1erver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday cxccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rht: Associated Press. All reproduction rights are rC'served. 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

University tier plan meets mixed reviews from students 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

The devil is in the details. 
That is the conclusion student gov­ernment leaders from across the state have come to about State University System Chancellor Adam Herbert's plan to reclassify Florida's 10 public universities. The plan will be voted on next week by the Board of Regents. 
Tuition and funding changes are proposed in the five-year SUS strate­gic plan, but student leaders said they are too vague for the Florida Student Association to take a united stand. FSA is a student lobbying group. 
The plan is controversial, in part, because it classifies Florida's only his­torically black university in the Comprehensive "tier" -perceived by many as the lowest classification. 
The Comprehensive classification, which also includes the University of West Florida and Florida Gulf Coast University, focuses on undergraduate 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Doctors leery to prescribe marijuana 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Although Arizonans support using otherwise illegal drugs for medicinal purposes, doctors are unlikely to start prescribing marijuana, one UA physician and two Arizona legislators said. Last week, voters rejected Proposition 300, which would have upheld the state's decision to ban physicians from prescribing drugs such as marijuana, heroin, LSD and PCP without Food and Drug Administration approval. "The people have spoken their will," said Robert Dorr, director of the University of Arizona's pharmacy program. "I think they have over­estimated the number of doctors who will be willing to prescribe (marijuana)." Arizona Sen. Ruth Solomon, a Democrat, pointed to a legal basis for physicians' hesi­tance to prescribe drugs approved by the proposition. It is still against federal law to prescribe such drugs, and doc­tors could lose their licenses for doing so, Solomon said. 
• YALE UNIVERSITY Baffled students adjust to new Master 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Less than a week after the sudden resignation of former Saybrook Master Antonio Lasaga and days after the reve­lation that he is the subject of a federal child pornography investigat~on, the Yale administration is trying to help baf­fled students through what many have called a difficult and unsettling time. Rumors and suspicions that have been circulating around Saybrook all week intensified after the New Haven Register reported that two Yale stu­dents tipped off authorities to potential illegal activity in Lasaga's Saybrook rooms. News crews and reporters have descended onto the Yale campus in the last 48 hours. Counselors, administrators and new Saybrook Master Harry Adams met with Saybrook students yesterday evening to discuss their concerns and feelings about the week's events. Some students said they felt saddened, shocked and betrayed by the events that have unfolded and the questions that remain unanswered. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA Former student files suit against judge 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

A former UC Berkeley student, who alleges that a judge sent her to prison to block her from having a second-term abortion, has filed a lawsuit against the judge. Yuriko Kawaguchi is suing Judge Patricia Cleary of the Cuyahoga County, Ohio Court of Common Pleas, alleging that the judge's personal views on abortion resulted in Kawaguchi's imprisonment, according to the lawsuit. The suit also states that Kawaguchi could not get a safe abor­tion because a number of individuals, including Cleary, Cuyahoga County Sheriff Gerald McFaul, jail administra­tor Robert Pace and prison social workers, did not provide her with the information that she needed to get a timely abortion, according to Chris Link, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union of Ohio. "She was not fully informed of her choices and was not given the opportunity to have an abortion," Link said. 
• KENT STATE UNIVERSITY Fake money sneaks onto campus 
KENT, Ohio 

Someone is circulating funny money in Portage County, 
and the counterfeit bills have ended up in the city of Kent 
and on the Kent State campus. Kent State student Jon 
Fitch found a false $20 bill when he withdrew money from 
the Huntington National Bank drive-through ATM 
machine on state Route 59 last week, and more bills cir­
culated in the Hub shortly thereafter. Kent Police Sgt. 
Dennis DeLuke said just one person isn't suspect of the 
operation that may be producing the fake bills as other 
bills have been found in the county. "This isn't just one 
guy's bright idea," DeLuke said. Kent State Police Lt. Dean 
Tondiglia would not disclose through which vendors the 
fake currency has passed in the Hub because the investi­
gation is still underway. The investigation will continue 
for at least two more weeks, he said, and they do have 
leads. Both police departments arc working with the 
Akron office of the United States Secret Service. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
!'',,..---H 

Friday ~49 34 Saturday ~52 37 Sunday ~52 40 Monday ~53 37 Tuesday ~54 41 
:.~~ ·~rr L ~aos~70s SOs ~ © 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD  FRONTS: ..&...&.. ~ WARM STATIONARY  
Pressure:®©DDDDDD High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice  . -.;'" '~~:~'#{#·; •(~=~ Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  


Vta Associated Press 

Annapolis 59 37 Fairbanks 4 -4 Portland 56 49 Aspen 42 13 Fresno 70 41 Reno 60 32
qy,~Q8Q {) ~ u 
Chicago 46 34 Lincoln 57 32 San Diego 70 53 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Des Moines 51 34 Miami 83 68 Topeka 58 38 
V1a Associated Press Graph1csNet 
Detroit 47 32 Pittsburgh 49 32 Washington, DC 60 40 

Students from those schools ques­tion what the "stigma" of that classifi­cation will do to the value of their degrees. 
"Placing certain schools in tiers above .certain others results in the 'brand naming' of degrees," states a Florida A&M University student report. "In the academic, vocational and public eyes, degrees from the top tier schools will be looked upon with higher regard." 
Student Body President John 
McGovern said fear of the stigmas must be dispelled. UF's SG is in favor of the plan, which elassifies UF as a Research I institution that will focus on graduate education and research. 
"I think the problem with this whole thing all along is there has been way too much argument over the names," McGovern said. "The core of what we're talking about has nothing to do with the names. The focus is non­duplication of missions, maximizing resources and overall presentation of quality edueation to the state." 
However, UF's student report states the plan will "increase the value and marketability of any degree obtained from UF." 
FAMU also expresses concern that its graduate programs will not be able to grow because Florida State University, a Research I school in the "top tier," also is located in Tallahassee. 
~---~-----~·--------~~ 
Friday, November 13, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Death penalty forum voices objections to execution 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
NcwsWritn 
Tlw night bel'oro Eastnr of 1 'J'JO, .IPnnifnr Bishop Jonns' prngnant sistnr and brother­in-law returned home to find an armed main sitting in their living room. lin led the eoupln to thnir basnment whern he murclnrml both. Tho criminal was thn couplo's 1 (J-ynar old nnighhor, and hn oseaped Illinois' dnath pnnalty by virtu(~ of only his ago, accord­ing to Jorws. 
Jonns. a mnmhor of Murder Victims Famili(~S ror Heconeiliation, spoke Thursday night at tho Death l'nnalty Forum sponsored by Am rw sty lntern ation a I and ND/SMC Hight to Lifn. Stud(mts, a Notre Dam(~ facul­ty rnnrnber and thn wifn of a dPath row inmatn also shared tlwir nxpnrinnens. 
"Why do we kill pnopln to show pnoplo that killing is wrong'?" as knd .J o1ws. who nxplai nnd how hnr sister's murdnr ehalhmgml lwr opposi­tion to tho death pnnalty. "It's not making us safnr. it donsn't savn us money ... and it's administnred in an incmdibly discriminating and arbitrary way." 
Illinois ranks third in the nation in rwmbnr of death row inmates, with 170 m!Hl and wonwn on dnath row, said .Jon(~S. Noting that 67 pnrennt of death row inmates arn black and llispanie. she high­lighted tho gmwral raeial dis­proportion associated with the death pnnalty. 
Jones also said that Illinois ranks second in the nation in number of mistaken death penalty convictions. Nine 
'WHYDO WE KILL 
PEOPLE TO SHOW 
PEOPLE THAT KILLING IS 
WRONG? IT'S NOT MAKING 
US SAFER, IT DOESN'T SAVE 
US MONEY ••• AND IT'S 
ADMINISTERED IN AN 
J~·~ 
INCREDIBLY DISCRIMINATING 
AND ARBITRARY WAY.' 

JENNIH>'R BIS/101' JONES 
MHMlJ/!11, MURDER VICTIMS 
FAMII.II!'S FOil RHCONGLIAT/ON 
death penalty cases were reversed in the past six years, all without the aid of the court system, said Jones. 
She criticized the judieial systems tnndency to seek immediate justice rather than to examine all facts. giving examplns of individuals who almost underwent the death penalty before evidence arose exonerating them. 
Beverly Miller, the wifn of a death row inmate and herself a member of tho group Love Over Vengeance, intertwined her opposition with the death pnnalty to her Christian faith. 
"The death penalty is a total denial of the individual's self­worth," said Miller. "If you 
belinve in Jesus Christ ... then 
how can you believe in the 
death pnnalty?" 
Miller read letters from 
death row inmates dnseribing 
thnir feelings about the judi­
cial system and thnir individ­
ual futures. 
"We generally assume that if a person is arrested for a erime, they committed that crime," said Miller reading ono inmate's letter. "By the time you go to trial ... every­one hates you." 
Miller argued that keeping a prisoner alive makes econom­ic sense. It costs $900,000 to keep a inmate in prison for 50 years, but over $2.5 million to nxneute one individual. The higher costs come from the 
multiple appeals and fees incurred before an individual is executed, she said. 
There are over 3,300 people on death row today in the U.S., said Miller, who interspersed personal accounts with statis­tics. She added that since 1976, almost 500 executions have taken place in the United States, which remains the only Christian country in the world to enact the death penalty. 
Garth Meintjes, a law profes­sor and associate director of Notre Dame Law Sehoul's Center for Civil and Human Rights, outlined the reasons for Amnesty International's opposition to the death penal­ty. 
"Amnesty International believes that the death penally violates the fundamental right to life. There is an unmistak­able trend away from thn practice of the death penalty in the international communi­ty," said Meintjes. 
Meintjes also said that Amnesty International opposes 
'THE DEATH PENALTY IS 
A TOTAL DENIAL OF 

THE INDIVIDUAL'S SELF­
WORTH. IF YOU BELIEVE IN 
JESUS CHRIST ••• THEN HOW 
CAN YOU BELIEVE IN THE 
DEATH PENALTY?' 
BEVERLY MILLER 

MEMBER, LOVE OVER VENGEANCE 
the death penalty because of its associations with violations of due process and bias against poor and racial minorities. 
Meintjes cited a 1998 
Philadelphia study which found that a black person is four times morn likely to gnt the death penalty than any other criminal in the America. 
Bill Pelke, a speaker from Indiana whose grandmother died after several teenage girls stabbed her to dnath, spoke about the need for love among victims' families and the aceused. 
"If you can get people to believe in love and compassion for humanity, you don't have 
. to talk about the dnath penal­ty," hn said. One of the murderers of Pelke's grandmother was a 15-year-olcl girl who became the youngest girl on death row in the country. Only after Pelke appealed and sought the support of death penalty opposition in Europe did the eourt system takn thn girl ofT death row. ""These people have families. We have to take a stand that it's wrong," said Pelke. Several of the speakers noted the increased public support for the death penalty in recent years, citing tho state of New York as an exam­ple, which has reinstated its death penalty. Two Notre Dame students and Father Joe Ross, a chaplain at the Michigan City prison, also shared their experiences of corresponding and visiting with death row inmates. 
Introducing ... 

• • "Castle Point Select" 
• •
• Designed for the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --Just Compare! • • Unfurnished or Furnished • • Spectacular Furnishings Available! • •27,, Stereo Television •Cherry Finished Furnishings • Microwave, Toaster, •
•
• Coffee Maker • All Dishes, Cookware, Linenes & New Bedding • • •Plus Much More • 
• MiIIion Dollar Renovation • 
• LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft), Starting at $457.00 • • LARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 sq ft), Starting at $559.00 • 
• Included with rentals --Free foil privilege membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club • • including: *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool *3 •
•

•
• Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor Basketball *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts • 
•• Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Popular Apartments • •• •• While They Last! · • 
• Cast(e :Point Apartments 

• •• 
C(evdan()@ Jronwoo() J\oa()s ••
•

• 272-8110 • www.mstft>-point.com • .)(on~ct~-Scttur~ct~ 8 ctm-6pm Sun~ct~ 12 pm -5pm 


-------~--~-­
.... 
~-------· 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 13, 1998 


Law School Forum opens in Chicago 
By MAUREEN SMITHE legal education, videos News Writer about the law school admis­sion process and special 
With an inexpensive train presentations for minority ride to Chicago, budding applicants: I:aW Services law students can broaden publicatjonsm and LSA T their horizons at the preparati~ti.Jtia~eriaJs. are Chicago Law School Forum available fgr p)lrchase as today and Saturday. welL .,, ... ··· ... 
Over 140 law schools will Several other cities, be represented at the including Atlanta; Boston, recruitment fair in the Dallas. Los Angeles, New Chicago Hilton and Towers York and Washington D.C., at 720 South Michigan have hosted similar forums. Avenue. In addition to the The forums allow students fair, special presentations to "meet wip~ representa­and information sessions tives of manylavv schools will be held. and lear~. · ··· d,.what · 
"The forum presents a they hav . < offer," ·· chance to learn about the Haggerty said.+Jiiif:• admission process, financial A statement issued by the aid options and career Law School Admission opportunities in the legal Council encourages fields through live panel dis· prospective law students to · cussions as well as video­attend such events. tapes," said Edward "Law SchoolForums are Haggerty, media relations designed to h lpf11l and specialist for the ev~:n'C informative rospec-
Haggerty said the p~rp6~e tive ·ra~ u~~nt~t ofthe forum is "to recruit the'yhave... ...•..lie par~ qualified people t61aw ticularly heJ .. to people school, acquaint them with who have been out of the law school admission undergraduate school for a process and put them on the year or more," the state­road to finding the right law ment read. school." Preregistration is not 
Included in the forum are required and admission is workshops on financing a free. 
Novak preaches compatabilty of business profits, religion 
By JOELLE FARMER News Writer 

Business and religious faith are inextricably intertwined and essential to the success of democracy, according to theologian and author Michael Novak. 
Facetiously alluding to his Washington home as the "ethics capital of the world," Novak dis­cussed the importance of faith in the market­place while delivering the Hansen-Wessncr Memorial Lecture Thursday afternoon in the College of Business Administration. Only in certain moral environ­ments with great com­
mitments to society can throughout the world as business truly thrive, he 'ALIFE COMMITIED TO BUSINESS IS has democracy. explained. Business is inherently
NOBLE, AND IT IS ESSENTIAL TO 
Historians, journalists moral. but it is the duty and other members of RELATE FAITH WITH GOOD WORK.' of practitioners to main­
businesses do not operate in a free market. Firms operate within a system; capitalism. 
"Capitalism is a law-governed, mind-centered system and a necessity for a successful democ­racy," he said. 
Using historical references, Novak demon­strated that economic liberty is essential for political liberty. Tho Founding Fathers madP the fateful decision to create a republic with an active commerce, he reminded. 
"Republicanism forms better citizens as the 
character of the people forms the ethics of the republic," Novak said. From this beginning, capitalism has flourished in the United Statns and 
"literary culture" have created an anti-business sentiment in which busi­ness ethics is an oxy­moron and business peo­ple are portrayed to wor­ship only the "almighty dollar in a decade of greed," Novak explained. 
"A life committed to business is noble and it is essential to relate faith with work," he said. 
Creativity, community and practical wisdom are the moral strengths of the commercial world and are propelled by world ideals inside any corporation. 
"Capitalism and democracy cannot endure without the virtues and respect for moral law," said Novak. This moral law is what a business. as a community of people working together for the welfare of the larger world, abides by. 
Despite popular belief. Novak asserts that tain their moral working 
environment. This is the 

MICHAEL NOVAK moral ambiguity of 
human freedom, accord­
ing to Novak. 

While each business exchange fosters change, business people must ensure that they do not betray "their firms, themselves, or the business system," said Novak. 
Despite the negative portrayal of business in society, Novak maintains that it is a noble and responsible profession. 
"Business is the only business that allows itself to be vilified and pay for it," he said. 
Striving to provide a forum to discuss ethics in the marketplace, Novak's lecture was the fourth sponsored by the College of Business Administration and its Con ter for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 

ND hosts education conference 
Please Recycle The Observer 
By ROBERT PAZORNIK News Writer 
The Institute for Educational Initiatives will hold its second annual invitational conference on the Comparative Studies of Educational Achievement at 
Notre  Dame's  Center  for  
Continuing  Education  on  
Saturday.  

Renown social scientists from America's top universities will discuss subjects dealing with educational improvement and student achievement, such as "Achievement and Equality in Catholic and Public Schools," "Gender Gap Comparison from 1972 to 1992" and "Immutability of Student Achievement." 
''I'm looking forward to it; I think it will be interesting," said Warren Kubitschek, assis­tant professional specialist at the Institution. "The conference is all about comparative studies of sociology in education. Only in the past decade have we started to do international edu­cation study. 
"It should be quite informa­tive, to learn what [characteris­tics of formal education] arc peculiar to the United States and which are more universal. 
Raids 
continued from page 1 
Thad Schmidt also affirmed that the employees and cus­tomers of his establishment knew of the local crack-downs from those arriving at Coach's after 1 a.m. 
As a matter of policy, Coach's has uniformed Mishawaka and county police officers at its doors to check IDs. 
Brian Reinthaler contributed to this report. 
The institute is making a great effort to bring some people studying comparative education together." Kubitschek contin­ued. 
Keynote speakers at the event will include Alan Kerckhoff of Duke University, Charles Bidwell of the University of Chicago, Anna Neumann of Michigan State University and Felicia LeClere, a research assistant professor at the Center for Study of Contemporary Society of Notre Dame. 
"One of the primary intents [of the conference] is to get graduate students exposed to different methods of research," said LeClere, who noted the importance of the Graduate Student Workshop, scheduled to be held in conjunction with the lEI conference. 
The Institute for Educational Initiatives was established in 
Hey, HM

1.997 in order to conduct sys­tematic social science research on schools. The group's mission is to "promote basic and applied research that will inform educational policy and improved educational prac­tice." Organizers of the confer­
Have a LA ence hope that the workshop will "promote discussion and 

Happy Birth,

encourage collaborative research among social scien­tists." 
From

"It's going to be exciting," said Kubitschek. "People at this 
Stacey and jessie 

conference will be taking a more comparative look." 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and 
Give your child the 
Trinity School Advantage 
Small classes. 
Caring Faculty. 
Core Curriculum. 
Blue Ribbon 
Excellence Award. 
High S.A.T. Scores. 
Christian Environment. 
Successful Graduates. 
along
Serving St11dents 
flight home, 

in Grades 7-12. the plane
107 S. Greenlawn, South Bend 
goeSdoWn,

(Comer Jefferson and Greenlawn) 
but her trip is 287-5590 just beginning 
Theatre presents 


by Christina Gorman 

Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, November 18  7:30p.m.  
Thursday, November 19  7:30p.m.  
Friday, November 20  7:30p.m.  
Saturday, November 21  7:30p.m.  
Sunday, November 22  2:30p.m.  

Playing at Washington .Hall Reserved Seats -$9 Senior Citizens -$8 All Students -$6 
Tickets are available at the LaFortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
-~-------­


h·iday. Novemher 1.1. 1998 
• N~ C, i 's; 
Chile approves expedition to search for buried treasures 
SANTIA<;o, Chile~ 
A U.S. PX(H•dition to snarch for I ~th cnntu­rv trPasurP on Hobinson Cruson island has I;Pt'n approvnd by Chilnan authorities, the National MonumPnt.s Commission said Thursday. Authorization was givnn for "sri­t•ntilir and arrhaPologiral diggings ainwd at finding thP Pxact plart• whnrn a valuabl<~ shipnwnt was buriPd in thn 1~th r!'ntury," thl' commission said. Tlw sitn is about six mill's from lht• island's only populatnd vii­lag«'. Chilt~an srinntists wnn• assigrwd to fol­low lht• t'XJll'dition lwcausn lhn thrnP-island arPa. :;oo milt's WPst of' rontinnntal Chiln. is a national park, tlw commission said. If' trna­sun· is found. Chilt· would knnp 7:i percent and llw n•maining 2S pnrcnnl would go to tlw PXpPdition. 
Mysterious fumes force Tennessee school to evacuate 
MrMINNVILLli. Tenn. 
Noxious f'um<~s fillnd a high S<~hool classroom and hallway Thursday. snnding at !Past ()2 pnopln lo thn hospital. A stud<~nt prank was suspPdnd by investigators who spnnt tlw day trying to dntnrminn thn sourcn of' thn odor at Warrnn County lligh School. which was variously desr.ribnd as reminis­r<•nt of' paint thinner, bug spray or peppnr spray. "It's a mystnry. We may never know." said Hichard Myers, Warren County l·:nwrgnncy Managnnwnt Agency diroctor. Victims -mostly studnnts and at least one tnadwr -were trnat1~d at Hiver Park llospital for nausna. headaclws and dizzy spnlls. 
Custody battle over switched babies begins 
BUENA VISTA. Va. 
A custody battle may be in the works for orw of' two girls switehed at birth thrr.e years ago. Tommy and Linda Hogers, the divon~ed matnrnal grandparonts who have bPPn !wiping raisn Hnbncca Grace Chittum. havn pntitiorwd a juvnnilo court for sole cus­tody ol' tlw child. a rnlative said Thursday. Hnlativns said thn grandparnnts want to end a joint arrang1~nwnt bl'lwoen themselves and HPiwr.ca's paternal grandpanmts, Hosa Lon and Larry Chittum. and also knep Hebecea's biological mothl)r from visiting. !'aula .Johnson gave birth to Hebncca at the UnivPrsity of' Virginia Medical Cnnter on .Juno :w. 19%, a day after Kevin Chittum and Whitnoy Hogers had Callie Conley thnre. I>NA tests this summer detormined the 
COMP/l.E'D FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERV!C'ES page 5 
• iRAQ 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BAGIIDAD 
Facing a U.S. military buildup and harsh criticism from fellow Arabs. Iraq blamed Washington on Thursday for the deepnning crisis over U.N. arms inspections and said an American attaek would be "a sheer aggression or criminals." 
Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz -gesturing defiantly, his voice rising in anger -charged that President Clinton was blocking the completion of arms inspections needed for punishing trade sanc­tions on Iraq to be lifted. 
"The road is being blocked continuously, stub­bornly, illegally by his government," Aziz said at a news conference that came shortly after a group of Arab states said Iraq itself would be at fault if the U.S. military struck at the country. 
The criticism by the six countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council ­Iraq's vulnerable noighbors -along with Syria .and Egypt was unusually strong for Arab countries who have repeatedly called for a diplomatic solution to the crisis. 
Foreign ministers of the r-ight states, meeting in the Persian Gulf state of Qatar, did urge "wisdom and reason" to end the con­frontation. But they said the government of Saddam Hussein would be "responsible for any consequences" from its stopping the work of U.N. weapons inspectors. 
Aziz gave little heed to 
the plea from the Arabs to renew cooperation with the United Nations or face more suffering by the Iraqi people. 
"If they arc sincere in dealing with this situation ... they should blame the main block. the main gov­ernment which is behind this crisis. They should criticize the United States," he said. 
In Israel. the government opened gas mask distribu­tion centers for its citizens even as officials said they believed the pos­sibility of an Iraqi retaliatory attack on Israel, like those during the Gulf War, was slim. 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he wasn't even sure if he had a gas mask at home and only a trickle of people showed up at the 65 gas mask centers opnnnd around the eountry. 

Iraq's dnliant stand came despite growing evidence that the United States was preparing to make good on its military thrnats unless searches for Iraq's weapons of mass dnstruc­tion are renewed. 
"We're not playing games." Defense Secretary William Cohen said. But he also said, "We're not seek­ing to go to war. We'ro seeking to avoid it. All he has to do is comply. Thr, ehoicr, is his." 
The United States on Wednesday ordered more warships headed to the Persian Gulf' to ready for an attack. and the United Nations -declaring that it must look to the saf'oty of its workers -pullnd 21 more staff' members out of' Iraq on Thursday. 
babies worn switclwd and raised by the wrong pan~nts. Chittum and Ms. Hogers did not know ol' tho switc.h when thny died in a car crash .July 4. 
Dow 
AMEX: 666.1!1!

./ONES 
+3.07 Nasda11: 11!51.06 
-11.05 NYSE: 
552.56 -O.OK

str 
S&P 5110: 1117.69 Composite

-3.2K 

Volume: +5.92 1!31,709,300 
VOLUME LEADERS 
fUMI't\r::t~· ru·brl:l ~ ru~!j!il.. S !iAI!j I'IU!'I: 
,.

nnt'l'\I.EM t'URI' +11.27 +2.01111 47.11175 IIH.I.('CH\II'lJ'H.H OEI.I. -.\.Hl +6.1250 M.IK75 SAH.\\'AY INl' ~\VY +to.B +1.6250 52.25 INH.I.t'llkl' INT<' -0,96 +1.6250 IU2.6H75 AI'I'I.II·:III\IATUUAI. AMAT +.\.11'1 +'J.6H75 JK.75 c·cii\11'.\()C'CH\II'trr ..:w ('I'Q -I.Kl +1.01100 JJ.K75 ...AH"IIIWEIIINl' EWIIX +.U.l.\ -1.01100 IW.25 HIX I·:NTEHTAIN FOX -1.7t.l -2.61175 1-1.11615 Clrll:tUIIII'INC ('('I -1.0,\ -11.9.\75 .ti..W.\75 f.:X<Tn:INt' XCII" +1.112 -1.12511 52 .. \15 





Hong Kong mob boss gets death 
ASSOCIATED PRESS stations. But Hong Kong authorities said The case riveted attention in Hong they had no evidence because the HONG KONG Kong, where two tycoons were kidnappings were never reported to 
A reputed Hong Kong mob boss reportedly kidnapped and released Hong Kong police. was sentenced t(i death Thursday in after paying $210 million in ransom. The Hong Kong Bar Assoeiation China for kidnapping and arms­Legal experts raised questions maintained China had the right to try smuggling, ending the first about jurisdiction beca·use many of the case, although a bar spokesman, high-profile 'cross-border trial since the crimes were committed in Hong Ronny Tong, conceded hearing it in 
the handover from British rulo. Kong, whichhas no death penalty, China rather than Hong Kong "may 
Cheung Tze-keung, alias ''Big but were prosecuted in China as eap­give ... the l'<tlse impression that the Spender," stared straight ahead as ital offenses in a closed-door trial. judiciary and the rule of law in Hong he heard the verdict in a Guangzhou The verdicts and sentences were Kong are somehow subordinate to courthouse, ringed by sharpshooters announced. somewhat more openly those of the rest of China." 
and security personnel wearing bul­Thursday, with Chinese legal olllcials Hong Kong's ser.retary of security, letproof vests and armed with addressing a news conference in Regina lp, sought to play down such maehine guns. Guangzhou, 100 miles north of the eoneerns, noting many of the crimes 
Some of his 35 accomplices Hong Kong border, that was broad· were allegedly plotted in the nHtin­appeared nervous as they heard their cast on Hong Kong television. land, where half the defendant'> lived sentences. ranging from prison to Western journalists were kept out. and where all were arrested. death. The reactions were shown in Cheung's lawyers had tried to get "There is no question or the m<tin· 
mainland Chinese television footage the trial transferred to Hong Kong, land interfering with Hong Kong's aired late Thursday by Hong Kong which hasa CO\lrt. system modeled own independent adjudicating after. .Britain's; · power.'' lp told a news conference. 
::~.:;. 
page 6 · The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 13, 1998 

Father Sorin 's original was new," Norton said. than dry-walling and painting. administration building was The current project has had Mosaic ceramic floor tiles and destroyed by fire in April, the complex task of restoring restoration of decorative gold 1879. Just days later, Notre the appearance of the original leaf are among the finer points Dame's president, Father building while simultaneously of the finishing touches con­William Corby, boldly declared strengthening its structure and tractors will apply between that a new and improved struc­adding modern necessities. now and next July. ture would open by September Safety concerns motivated the To help reproduce the build­of that year. most aggressive changes; ing's artistic details, a handful 
Three-hundred unskilled of specialty contractors such as workers -many of them stu­Conrad Schmitt Studios of dents and volunteers -took Milwaukee were brought to just 3 1/2 months to erect the campus. Conrad Schmitt built
'BECAUSE OF THE 

current structure. Some of the on its experience restoring the

UNIQUE NATURE OF
negative effects of that chaotic <~regori murals in the Basilica construction festered and dete­THIS PROJECT, MOST IF NOT of the Sacred Heart to handle riorated within the building much of the Main Building's

ALL OF THE CONTRACTORS
until 1991 when the University interior ornamentation and asked Minneapolis-based HAVE IMPROVED THEIR artwork, including the main architect Ellerbe Becket to con­corridor murals.

COOPERATION. THEY ALL

duct a preliminary study of the The project's managers building's condition. They TAKE PRIDE IN THIS WORK.' agree that the contractors' found a structure badly in need work on the Main Building rep­of both structural and cosmetic resents something special.
DouG NORTON
repairs. Many seem to realize the cul­
"The patient was sick, but PROJECT MANAGER tural significance of the struc­not terminal," Bjornberg THE CHRISTMAN COMPANIES, ture. recalled. "We were fortunate "My observation is that this
MAIN BUILDING CONTRACTORS 
that a lot of the work done on project is certainly different, the original project was of and this makes it special," quality." adding elevators, escape routes Norton said, alluding to the 
The architect's list of serious and other measures. building's focal location on structural deficiencies was dis­"There were a lot of improve­Main Quad. an area honored turbing; the north annex was ments we had to make -a lot on the National Register of leaning and pulling away from of improvements towards life Historic Places. "Because of the rest of the building, the safety," Bjornberg said. the unique nature of this pro­poorly supported fifth floor The architects' job was com­ject, most if not all of the con­had been ruled unsafe for plicated by the absence of any tractors have improved their occupancy and floor beams blueprints, plans or documen­cooperation. They all take under the president's office tation to explain the 1879 con­pride in this work." and other administrative struction process . At the current advanced 
. spaces had snapped and "With an old building, you stage of the renovation, con­failed. The building's 120-year have to be a little like a detec­tractors can hopefully carry old skeleton was perhaps a tive. You pull things apart and that pride to the finish line. lurking disaster. you find problems," Bjornberg "This attitude has been "The time frame that they said. "A lot of our work was heightened in the past few first tried to build it in was just trying to bring some sense months as the project has pretty remarkable," Norton to this." really taken shape," agn~ed said. "[The original construc­.Jim Weiler, senior construc­tion] was all pretty eccentric." BUILDING ON EXPERIENCE tion administrator for Ellerbe But now with eight months Approximately 175 laborers Becket. left in the massive project, hid­are contributing to the project. As recently as a few months den structural problems have The Christman Companies won ago, the Main Building was a been all but eliminated. the project's $50 million bid gutless shell without interior Engineers report the renovat­and employ largely local, union walls or even lloors, but much ed 120-year-old building will subcontractors. of its inside has now taken actually be sturdier than it Managers reported few diffi­shape. As laborers add mold­was when Father Corby first culties in locating skilled local ing and restore stairwells, pro­opened its doors. craftsman, even though the ject managers note that only "Definitely. You can say that project calls for some repairs tho finishing touches remain it's stronger now than when it considerably less orthodox -alboit eight months worth. 


For time and location of meeting~ call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude~ C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 

Dome 
continued from page 1 

president for business opera­tions, Jim Lyphout. 
The rapid progression that has seen construction shift from exterior restoration to interior renovation will not slow during the coming winter, said Notre Dame facilities engi­neering project manager Paula Carlaccini. The building has been fully insulated and enclosed and its permanent heating system has already been connected, so the renova­tion's small army of carpen­ters, electricians and craftsmen will keep their pace regardless of inclement weather. 
Structurally and mechanical­ly, the project is all but com­plete, leaving only finishing touches for the projectOs final months. 
"There's still a lot of things going on," reported The Christman Companies project manger Doug Norton. "Drywall is the biggest activity right now -drywall and plaster." 
Once the office walls are in place, contractors will add the decorative touches as they cre­ate modern functional office space in the building's wings and recreate historically accu­rate ornamentation in the building's corridors. Stained oak cherry will augment the existing walnut, mahogany and pine work, and faux marble and decorative painting that was covered in the 1960s will also be restored to its original luster. 
The project aims to restore the historical appearance of much of the interior's public space while creating historical­ly sensitive but functional office space. When it reopens in 1999, the Main Building will again house large administra­tive units such as the Admissions Office and the Office of Financial Aid. The building will also hearken back to its 19th Century roots and include classroom and library space. 
"Everything that goes back into that building has to have a historical precedent for being there," said project director Mike Bjornberg of Ellerbe Becket architects. 
'WITH AN OLD BUILD­ING, YOU HAVE TO 


BE A UTILE LIKE A DETEC­
TIVE. You PULL THINGS APART AND YOU AND PROB­
LEMS. A LOT OF OUR WORK 
WAS JUST TRYING TO BRING 
SOME SENSE TO THIS.' 

MIKE BJORNBERG 
PROJECT DIRECTOR 
ELLERBE BECKET, 
MAIN BUILDING ARG1i/TECTS 
THREE MONTHS TO CREATE, 
TWO YEARS TO RESTORE 
The extraordinary circum­stances of the building's origi­nal construction ha,.s chal­lenged contractors' plans to keep their aggressive schedule. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Round windows located on the base of the Main Building's cupola afford a view of the refurbished roof and ornamental chimney cover. 
Friday, November 13, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 


Building on Tradition 
CrPaling historically snnsi­tiVP, functional ol'fin~ space was Llw primary goal for Llw reno­vations in thn lower wings of tlw Main Building, but plan­rwrs' ;wsthntic aspirations for llw upper n~adws of the land­mark wnrn lwavnnly. 
For tlw int.nrior of tlw donw, arrhit.nrts conr.«Hltratnd on rPstoring t.lw full nf'l'nr.t of arrhitnct Willoughby .1. l·:dhrookn's original design. Ill) «~allnd tlu~ ndndic mix "modern Cothir," and rreated a design that Pmlun~s more than a cen­tury af'll'r its inception. 
l'icturnd dirnctly below,' the original «Tudn, spiraling wood­nn stain~ase elimhs from the Main Building's fifth floor up into the cupola of Edbrookn's d o Ill I' . B i g h t. tlw n o o n s u n st. rI' am s into tlw top of the 
donw cupola through the south-facing windows. Plastic shields the recently-restored wooden banisters that were among the thousands of items contraetors returned to original luster. 
Bottom right, ornamental de<:orations will be painted onto the corridor walls of the Main Building to approximate tlw original 1879 adornments. 
Comparatively mundane yet necessary tasks also occupy the project's contractors. Bottom left. a craftsman installs utility­work alongside the insulation­shrouded first floor walls. In .July, 1999, the Office of Financial Aid will move into that area with the rest of build­ing's returning tenants. 
Photos by Kevin Datum 




page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 13, 1998 
• fRANCE 

Government seeks Pinochet extradition 
Israel angered Th}lrsday by gi ahead for cons Jewish housing 

disputed area .. ·.... •..•..... .. .. , while saying it will St<J;rt turn~ ing over West Bankterritory 
nextweek; 
Dennis Ross, U.S. • Mid~1e East envoy,Js in IsraeLf!riday implementation Mideast. Jan accord. 
rau'"fLIIII>t.ll. 
were already help solve 
"Itis now • AmeriCan oversee imJ>lt:i.Ihc:mtatilon agreement," Palesthiian nego Ere kat. 
"We willnot 
post~agreement ""l'lv.•.~a 
and will not· tions outside" the he told The Associated 

The agreement, signed at the White House Oct 26, calls for a staged troop withdNtwal from 13 percent of theWest Bank in exchange .f&r Palestinian security measures; 
Israel plans to hand over the first parcel of land by the end of next week. said David Bar· Illan, a senior adviser to Netanyahu. And there were signs on the ground Thursday that implementation of some aspects was close. 
At the Palestinian airport in Gaza< near the Egyptian bor-
Ltlg .. chal'fer . at. ca11 
lsmersdestruction. · •.........•......• 

· Isntel also reserved. the. dght toannexJarge. areas ofthe West Bank ff .Arafat fi1ade ggoq on a threat tounilaterally 
·· · declare Palestinian statehood ·. fu.May~ 
• RUSSIA 
Leaders restructure debt 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia plans to seek a second restructuring of its Soviet-era foreign debt, the deputy finance minister says, a move likely to Further undermine the govern­ment's sullied reputation among foreign creditors. 
Russia inherited about $260 billion in Soviet debt, much of it from loans to developing coun­tries that defaulted. 
Under a 1996 restructuring agreement, Russia was granted a grace period through 2002, during which it only makes debt service payments. But even that is proving too much. 
Deputy Finance Minister Mikhail Kasyanov said in an interview published Thursday that Russia would be asking creditors for some "breathing space on the payments of the debt in the next year or two." 
The Soviet-debt payments are part of the $17.5 billion in for­eign debt that Russia was to pay creditors next year. 
Foreign lenders expected the government to try to pay off the newer, Russian debt first, and Kasyanov's announcement, in an interview with the business daily Kommersant, confirmed the speculations. 
Kasyanov did not rule out the possibility that the government would also want to reschedule the Russian debt. Russia has built up $50 billion in foreign debt as well as inheriting about $100 billion in debt since the Soviet collapse, Kasyanov said. 
Also Thursday, Russia was on the verge of signing a food aid deal with the European Union that would start providing wheat, rice, beef and pork in early January. Russia signed a similar agreement with the United States last week. 
The country has not experi­enced any serious food short­ages so far, but the government wants to ensure its stockpiles last until spring. 
In a new sign of trouble for the Russian banks, Central Bank Chairman Viktor Gerashchenko said the govern­ment won't bail out domestic banks whose overseas assets are frozen by foreign creditors. 
A government-declared mora­torium on debt payments that had protected Russian banks is due to expire within days. 
Central Bank's deputy chair­man Andrei Kozlov said that" more than 700 Russian com­mercial banks will fail, because the government does not have the $5 billion to save them. 
Pinochet faces charges for dis­appearance of French citizens 
Associated Press 

PARIS 
French authorities on Thursday officially asked Britain to extradite former Chilean leader Augusto Pinochet so he can face charges related to the disappearance of French citizens. 
A Justice Ministry statement said the extradition request was handed to British authori­ties via the French Foreign Ministry. 
Pinochet was arrested Oct. 16 in London on a Spanish extra­clition warrant citing charges of genocide, torture and kidnap-~· ping during his 17-year rule, which began in 1973 when he toppled Salvador Allende, an 
elected Marxist. 

Meet Joe Black PG-13 [11:10, 12:15, 2:50]4:10, 6:50, 8:00, 10:00 (Fri-Sat. only) 
1Still Know What You Did Last R 

[12:10, 2:45]5:15, 7:45, 10:15  
I'll Be Home For Christmas  PG  
[12:00, 2:15]4:35, 6:45,9:10  
The Waterboy  PG-13  
[11 :30, 12:30, 2:00, 3:00]4:30,  
5:30, 7:10, 7:50, 9:30, 10:10  
The Wizard of Oz  G  
[11 :20, 1:45]4 15, 6 30, 8:50  
The Siege  R  
[11 :35, 1:10, 2:1 0] 4:00, 5:00,  
7:00,7:40, 9:45, 10:20  
Living Out Loud  R  
[11 :45, 2:25]4:50, 7:20, 10:00  
Antz  PG  
[12:20, 2:30]4:40, 6:40, 9:00  
Vampires  R  
[11 :50, 2:40]5:05, 7:30, 10:05  
Pleasantville  PG-13  
[1 :20], 4:20, 7:15, 9:55  
Practical Magic  PG-13  
[1 :30]4:25, 6:55, 9:20  
Urban Legend  R  

A French judge handling the cases of three French citizens who disappeared after Pinochet took power had asked French authorities to file an extradition request. 
A French court then sent a temporary arrest warrant for Pinochet to British authorities, accusing him of "sequestration followed by torture." 
It was the final step neces­sary before France could offi­cially ask for his extradition. 
In Britain Thursday, prosecu­tors wrapped up their appeal of a· court ruling allowing Pinuchet immunity from prose­cution in Britain, arguing that the crimes against humanity he is charged with "unequivocally" violate international law. · 
Areport by Chile's govern­ment says about 3,000 people were killed or disappeared at the hands of secret police under Pinochet. 
Chile, however, has protested his arrest, saying it strains the country's democracy, r.arefully built since the general steppod down in 1990. 

on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
Anlz  PG  
[2:30]5:00, 7:00, 9:00  
Vampires  R  
[2:00]4:30, 7:30, 10:00  
Somelhing About Mary  R  
[2: 15]4:45, 7:15, 9:45  



Ronin  R  
[1 :30]4:20, 7:00, 9:40  
One True Thing  R  
[1:20]4:10, 6:50,9:30  
The Negotiator  R  
[1 :40]4:40, 8:00  
Halloween H20  R  
[1:50]4:30, 7:10,9:10  
Dr. DolitUe  PG-13  
[1:10]4:00, 6:45,9:35  
Annageddon  PG-13  
[2:00]5:00, 8: 10  

[12:40, 3:05]5:20, 8:10, 10:30 

Rush Hour PG-13 Times in [brackets] Saturday and Sunday [11 :40, 2:20] 4:45, 7:25, 9:40 Matinee only 
Now! Students and Seniors $4.00 Anytime 
at the 16 and Town & Country theatres 


Diamond PriceQuotations 


246-1939
Jason 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
Vteaux 
CLASSICAL GUITARIST 
Thesday, November 17,1998 7:30p.m. • Moreau Center 
The DiaRlond Authority®
Uttle Theatre 
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. 
For ticket infonnation contact 
Established 1965

the Saint Mary's Box Office at 284-4626 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101
;lg{gjjJ
I c;_~ THE ARTS 

South Bend, Indiana 46601
~NOTRE DAME. IN 
Friday, October 13, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 




U.S. agrees to cut emissions 
A~sociated Press 
..;..;.;.::~-----· ··-·----
WASliiNGTON 

The United Statos signed 
the Kyoto global-warming 
aceord today, hoping to spur 
further progress on details of 
the treaty in negotiations 
under way in Argentina. 
The agrnoment. which calls 
for sharp reductions in heat· 
trapping greenhousf' gases by 
lh11 Unitnd States and 37 
other industrial nations, was 
signed at the Unitml Nations 
in New York by PHI.M 
Burleigh, acting U.S. ambas­
sador. 
In a statement, the White 
llouso said tho signing "roa!'­
lirms America's commitment 
to work with the international 
eornmunity to turn tho broad 
concepts of the Kyoto 
Proto1:ol into working reali­
t.ins." 
Earlier, Undersecretary of 
State Stuart Eizenstat told 
dfllegallls to the 160-nation 
climate confcronce in Buenos 
;\ires, Argentina, that the 
Unitod States planned to sign 
thn agrnement. Tho 
announcement was greeted 
by applause from the dele­
gates. 
Signing the accord is largely 
symbolic since it must still be 
ratified by thP Senate, some­
thing that is not likely any­
time soon. 
But opponents of the treaty 
r1uickly dnnounced the sign· 
ing. 
The signing ol' the treaty 
"blatantly contradids tlHl will 
of the Senate," declared Son. 
Chuck llagel, H-Neb., who has 
been orw or the tiereest treaty 
oppunents. lfe said tho Senate 
made dear last year the 
treaty should not he signed 
unless it includes developing countries. 
Treaty opponents earlier this week cautioned the administration against sign­ing, saying that would flll'ther galvanize opposition in Congress. 
Under the treaty, the United States had until March to sign. 
Agreed to in Kyoto, Japan, 
'THE TIMING OF THIS SIGNING ONLY ENCOURAGFS COUNTRIFS 
WHO REFUSE TO BE PART 
OF ANY EFFORT TO LIMIT GREENHOUSE GAS EMis­
SIONS.' 
Rr::P. JOHN DINGELL D-MIG1l/GAN 
last December, the climate paet has beon signed by 57 countries, including every major industrial nation except the United States. lt has been ratified by only onn country, Fiji. 
The administration has said it won't ask the Senate to con­sider the treaty until develop­ing countries such as China ag1·oo to participate -and that could take several years. 
But U.S. oftieials wanted to usH tho treaty signing to Hner­gize the negotiations at the climate conference conclud­ing this wet~k. They hoped it would help convince dele­gates from developing nations and Europe that the United States is taking tho elirnato ehange seriously. 

On Wednesday, Argentina said it would take voluntary action to curb greenhouse gases, a move seen as a breakthrough by U.S. officials because Argentina would be the first developing nation to make such a commitment. China and India, two of the biggest contributors of heat­trapping carbon, however, have steadfastly refused to participate. 
The United States has been criticized by developing coun­tries and Europeans for fail­ing to curb greenhouse gases, mainly carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels. 
The signing, however, is expected to add fuel to the congressional debate over global warming. 
In a letter to President Clinton this week, Sen. Robert 
C. Byrd, D-W.Va., urged against a high-profile signing of the accord at this time. He called it an "empty gestures that will only make the poten­tial future approval of the (Kyoto) protocol by the Senate more ditlicult." 
Another Democrat, Rep. John Dingell of Michigan. canceled plans to attend the Buenos Aires conference because he expected the treaty signing. "The timlng of this signing only encourages countries who refuse to be part of any el'fort to limit greenhouse gas omissions," said Dingell, a staunch oppo· nent of the Kyoto accord. 
But supporters of the treaty -both in Congress and with­in the environmental commu· nity-have urged the admin­istration to sign as a signal that the United States is mov­ing ahead to address the cli­mate issue. 
What is the crime of 




silence? 

Come and learn more as 



Nationally Recognized Speaker 
Katie Koestner 
gives her powerful account of her experience with sexual assault: NO-YES 
Monday, November 16 At 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 
(;ender Studies Women's Resource Center University Counseling Center Residence Life Sex Offense Services of Madison Center Women's Legal li'orum Notre Dame Security 
.-. ....................-~ .......~-···-·····-······· .. ······· ........ ·--·····
~ 

Central America begins to rebuild 
Associated Prc~s 
TEGUCIGALPA. Honduras 

Law students dug with shov­els Thursday alongside roaring earth-moving equipment, trying to rid Honduras' capital of thick layers of mud left by llurricane Mitch. 
In Honduras and Nicaragua, where nearly l 0,000 people died in the storm's fury, much of the recovery effort now involves sheer hard work by thousands of ordinary citizens. 
"We will rebuild," insisted Francis Juarez, a law student whose hands were blisternd from shoveling the foul-smelling black muck. An R-foot-high watermark on the wall behind her showed how high the 
Choluteca Hiver rose on Oct. 30-31. The river nor­mally flows two blocks away and 15 feet below. 
"I had never seen my coun­try like this," said Hector Duran, an 
engineering student stand­ing in 2-foot­deep mu"W. "I did not realize tlH~ damage was so bad. If 
'THE TIME HAS COME FOR US TO JOINTLY FACE THE APOCALYPTIC REALITY OF OUR VILLAGFS 
AND CITITFS ••• AND TRY TO CREATE A HONDURAS THAT IS RENEWED, VIGOROUS, 
MODERN AND BEITER.' 
Ci\1/I.OS FWRHS rACUSSR 1'1/h'SlDHNT OF IIONIJ/Jlli\S 
we all make an el'l'ort wn will eome out ahead." 
In a radio broadeast Thursday, President Carlos Flores Facusse appealed to thP. United States and other coun­tries to increase aid to his stricken nation and forgivn its debts. 
lie also called on his country· men to "rmlouble your nfl'orts and your work to rnbuild tho country as rapidly as possible." 
"The time has come for us to jointly face the apocalyptic rnal­ity of our villages and cities ... and try to create a Honduras that is rennwed, vigorous, rnod­nrn and better," Fl(m~s Faeussc said. 
Despite the recovery nlTorts. the nation's top business group urged the governmnnt to extnnd a curfew and state of ernnr-

Erasmus Books 
1027 E. Wayne 
Tues-Sun, noon-6 1 block south of Jefferson & Eddy Used &out of print books 
bought, sold, searched 
232-8444 

gency imposnd Nov. 2 to try to prevent looting. 
Without unlimited polien authority to armst and jail sus­pects, "tlwrn will bP. chaos, des­peration and morn rohbnrins," said Higoberto Stefan, vke pms­idnnt ol' tlw Honduran Privatn Enterprise Council. 
Meanwhilo, aid continued to arrive !'rom across tlw globe. 
The Home-base U.N. World Food Program announced it would distributP. morn than 100,000 tons of rice, corn, !ish and oil over the next six months in the hurricane-hit eountries. 
"With emergency assistance, these people are at nxtrnme nutritional risk -in addition to facing the thrf'at of cholera and other diseases," said Catherine Bertini, the agency's executive 
director. 
Flores Facusse said repairs could cost four times llonduras' $1.2 billion annual bud­get. lin urged thn United Slates and other coun­
trit~S to for-
g i v n 
llonduras' 

$4.:{ billion in debt, grant it free-trade status and hP.Ip with "a massivP. supply of fresh resources to aid in rebuilding the country." 
lie also asked tlw l~uropean Union to lil't limits on banana imports from Central America, although oflicials say this year's llond uran crop is.virtually lost. 
The United States is part of the Paris Club of creditor nations, which annourH~t~d Thursday it would liknly grant debt ndief to llonduras and Nicaragua when it mnnts in early J>ecmnber. 
France on Tuesday eancelml debts owed by Nicaragua and Honduras. whiln ln~land. Britain, Italy, Mexico, .Jamaica and dozens of otlwr t~ountries have sent hnlp. 
Offieials put the 11 ond uran dnath toll at 7 ,000, with anoth­er 11.000 pnopln injured, 10,000 missing and 800,000 houst~s damaged or dnstroyed. In Nicaragua. the toll was 2,:{(,2 dead. 287 injured, 970 missing and 36,000 houses dnstroyed or damaged. 
SPRING BREAK'99 
Department of Music presents 
Faculty Artist 

Carolyn Plummer. violin 
with Scott Holshouser, piano 
Mozart: Sonata No. 4 for Piano & Violin in EMinor Franck: 
Sonata for Piano &Violin in A Major Beethoven: Sonata No. 7 for Piano &Violin in CMinor 
2 pm, Sunday, Nov 1 5 Annenberg Auditorium 
Tickets required: $1 0 general, $8 ND/SMC, $6 seniors, $3 students. Tickets available at the LaFortune Box 631·8128. 

----~-.... ·--~­








VIEWPOINT 
page 10 os~tRVER Friday, November 13, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDiTOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR........ . .... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER.. ....... Bryan Lutz VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huelar SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Karhleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouiller 
SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER.... .....•...............Dave Rogero Kristi Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella 
PHOTO EDITOR . .. ...Kevin Oalum 

The Observer is the indc:pendcm ncwspo1pc:r published by the students of the University of Notre Dame dulac and Sainr Mary's C..ollegc. lr does not neces.~arily rdlect rhe polide!> of the administration ofeither instirution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned ediwrials represent the opinion of the majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, As.'>isranr Managing Edi(Or and department editors. Commentaries, lcHers and columns prescm the views of rhc aurhors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Nmre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and{() all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Ediror-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/AssiMam ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5.)23 Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 6.11-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Informarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.J @nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 

Is Notre Dame a 'Student-Centered Research University'? 
Is a "student-centered research univer­sity" an "oxymoron"? That question was asked in a Heport, "Heinventing Undergraduate Education: A Blueprint 



Charles Rice 
for America's Hesearch Universities," issued last April by the Carnegie 
Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. The Report analyzed under­grad education in the nation's 125 research universities. 
The Report is optimistic on the poten­tial of research universities. It urged "a new model ... to take advantage of ... graduate and research programs to strengthen ... undergraduate education, rather than striving to replicate the ... environment of the liberal arts colleges." The lleport said universities can be "both student-centered and research-centered ... through a synergistic system in which faculty and students are learners and researchers, whose interactions make for a ... nourishing intellectual atmosphere." 
The Report's positive proposals for integration of the undergrad and research functions merit serious consid­eration. Research is not of itself teaching, although in some areas, especially in some sciences. the research role does fac~ilitate the improvement of undergrad education at Notre Dame and elsewhere. In general, however, as described in The Report, the emphasis on research has shortchanged undergrads, especially in the liberal arts. The Notre Dame experi­ence may be instructive. 
Two decades ago, Notre Dame embarked on its pursuit of recognition as a Great Research University. The historic mission of Notre Dame had emphasized the education of undergrads in the Catholic intellectual and moral tradition, with researci.J·md graduate education playing important complimentary roles. Part of that mission was to maintain Notre Dame's accessibility to nonwealthy students. One impact of the pursuit of Hesearch Greatness is the doubling since 1978, in real money adjusted for infla­tion, of undergrad tuition, room and board. Another is the transformation of the formerly pastoral Notre Dame into a crowded, urban-style research campus that prompted one former professor to say on his return, "It looks like Michigan State." And courses tend to be less acces­sible. 

Are Notre Dame undergrads receiving double the value they received two decades ago? The Carnegie Heport's gen­eral criticisms of undergrad education in research universities can be helpful to the Notre Dame community as a guide for an institutional examination of con­science. 
"Hesearch Universities," said the Report, "have too often failed, and con­tinue to fail, their undergraduate popula­tions. Tuition ... from undergraduates is one of the major sources of university income ... but the students ... get, in all too many cases, less than their money's worth. An undergraduate at an American research university can receive an education as good or better than anything ... in the world, but that is not the normative experience .... [U Jniversities are guilty of an advertising practice they would condemn in a com­mercial world. Hecruitment materials display ... world-famous pmfessors, the splendid facilities, and the ... research that goes on within them, but thousands of students graduate without ever seeing [those] professors or tasting genuine research. Some of their instructors are likely to be ... untrained teaching assis­tants ...; some others may be tenured drones who deliver set lectures from yel­lowed notes, making no effort to engage the bored minds of the students in front of them ... The standing of a university is measured by the research productivity of its faculty; the place of a department ... is determined by whether its members gar­ner more or fewer research dollars and publish more or less noteworthy research ...; the individual within that department is judged by the seholarship produced." 
"[l]t is in research grants, books, arti­cles, papers, and eitations that every uni­versity defines its true worth. When stu­dents are considered, it is the graduate students that really matter; they are essential as research assistants on facul­ty projects, and their placement as post­doctoral fellows and new faculty rein­forces the standing of the faculty that has trained them ... The use of graduate stu­dents ... has been treated as a necessity for ... both research programs and undergraduate instruction. This ... has often led to the importation of foreign students new to American education. The international graduate students ... must be welcomed; they have added strengths to research programs and, after graduation, to university faculties and research institutes. But the elass­room results of employing teaching assis­tants who speak English poorly, and who are new to the American system of edu­cation constitute one of the conspicuous problems of undergraduate education.... [T]he undergraduate ... may have little or no direct contact with established schol­ar-teachers. Instruction very often comes through ... the graduate student; the aca­demic luminary featured in admissions bulletins appears rarely if at all in under­graduate classes, and then too often as the lecturer addressing hundreds of stu­dents." 
"They might claim otherwise, but research universities consider 'success' and 'research productivity' to be ... syn­onymous terms. The typical department will assert that it does place a high value on effective teaching .... At the same time, ... tenure and promotion are likely 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DOONESBURY 


to focus almost entirely on research or creative productivity .... The reward structums ... need to reflect the synergy of teaching and research -and the essential mality of university life: That 
baccalaurcatn students are the universi­ty's economic life blood and are increas­ingly self-aware ... [lin the education of undergraduates the record of America's research universities has been one of inadequacy, even failure.... 
Baccalaureate students are the second­class citizens who are allowed to pay taxes but are barred from votirig, the guests at tho banquet who pay their share of the tab but am given Iel'tovers. Captivated by the excitement and the rewards of the research mission, research universities have not seriously attempted to think through what that mission might mean for undergradu­ates." 
The Heport is optimistic. It concludes that "the most important obligation con­fronting research universities is to define in more ereative ways what it means to be a research uniVl)rsity committed to teaching undergraduatns." A morn basic question which ought to be considnn~d at this university,. is whnther the drive to become a Groat Hnsnareh University is not inhemntly destructivn of the under­grad education which was the focus of the historic mission of Notre Damn. In any event, tho Notre Dame community ought to rell1~ct on the extent to which the Heport's description of the deteriora­tion of undergrad nducation might possi­bly apply to Notre Damn. The Heport should prompt a constructive assessment of what our leaders, in tlwir well-intc)n­tioned pursuit of Hesearch Prestige and money, have done to the character of Notre Dame and what, if anything, can now be done about it. 
Prof Rice is on the Law School faculty. /lis column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• Ouort OF THE Otw 
'Agreat many people 
think they are thinking 
when they are merely rear­
ranging their prejudices.' 
-William James 



VIEWPOINT 
rriday, November 13, 1998 OB~ERVER ----------------------------------------------page!! 
• CAPITAl COMMENTS 

A Friday-the-13th Election Analysis 
Talk about l;riday-tho-l3th superstitions and I cringe with caution. If today a black eat should conw anywlwro within twenty yards of mo. I will bn looking for tlw tiniest white spot on it so 
as 
============~~~~~·0 


Gary Caruso 

PasP my jittnrs. I stay away from open ladders and WPar garlic around my nnck ... to ward of (;ingrirh-likn Hnpublieans! 
TPn days ago thn /\rnoriean publk must also hav1~ worn garlic at thn polling booths. Nationally, voters indicatnd that they wantnd loss partisanship and morn problem solving from their Congressional rnpmsentativns in both tlw llousn and Snnatn. /\s a result, they PndPd tlw short speakership of New Gingrkh by rPjPrting Bepublican candidates. 
Snvnral dynami1~s werP at play last wnnk with many one-issun ermstitunndns vying lilr the delinitivn political clout that would assurn tlwir candidates victory. Ynt it was Newt Gingrich's rombatiw h~adership style that overshadowed tim politirallandsrap1~ and nationalized tlw Plection. It was not so rn ud1 of a refernnd urn on Bill Clinton. Hather. it was a rdnrendum on the HPpublican lnadnrship's handling of Clinton. 
Hnpublir.ans daim that Cingrich displayed statr~srnanship when hn decided to resign as Sprmknr of tho I louse. /\dually, it eamn down to votns. and Cingrid1 did not have the votns with­in his own party to eontinun as their lmtdnr. Whill' lw would havn bmm nominated by his caucus, a block of Hnpublicans were ready to dnny him his rndm~tion by dnaling with the I>mnocraL-;. 
l~arlhw this wonk. Gingrich delivered his vale­dictory addrnss to mmnbnrs of the conservative political action eommitt1~n lw established morn than a dntadn ago. Naturally Gingrich wanted to preach to tlw choir, so he pounded on the old thenws of strengthening our weak national ddrmsn and cutting taxes. llowever. hn inelud­ml several Clintonisrns such as saving Soda! Spr·urity and improving our ndueational systorn. 
(;ingrirh has bonn and will always be a snlf­SI~rving combativn politician. I lis true priorities comn from his own mouth. People alliliatnd with Notre Damn always think of their priorities as inscribnd abow tlw Sacrnd Heart Basilica door. "(;od. Country and Notro Dame." Newt, on tim otlwr hand. and in a typically self-serving way, put his party bn!(Jrn his country when he said. "It was 1msy to mak1~ Friday's decision. I had to ask what is right lin· my party, what is right J(,r my country. and only then what was right lin· mysPII'." 
Tlw /\nwrican public wants moderation and a continuation ol' thn nconomic prosperity ol' the I()()Os. ( ;ingrirh 's I nap for Clinton's jugular, in Llw form of impeachnwnt procedures and the whoiPsaln release of tlw Starr He port. was too radiml for tlw votnrs. When he authorized the attack tPinvision advertising, the votnrs becamn tlw school yard tnadwr, lm~aking up the fight bntwenn thn two touglwst kids on the play­ground. 
YPt this samn "school yard voter" boostnd ronsnrvatiw DPmocraL-; like Indiana's Evan Bayh and Hnpublicans likn Texas Governor c;norgP W. Bush. However. they booted eonsnr­vativn Notrn Damn alumnus Dan Lungrnn in the Calili,rnia gubernatorial race. Voters across the country rewardml candidates who came across as nmsonabln and in touch. while they rejeeted lhosn who ran on stale platforms. 
!\ "stain platl(,rm" focusnd on issues of y•~stflr­ynar, causing tlw candidate to sink in the polls until nlm~tion day wlwn the loss tallied by sub­stantial margins. Stale campaign issuos indud­nd 1:rime (Lungren), voting records and "putz­lwad" narno calling (Snn. AI D'Amato of New York). or remaining a Washington outsider (Hop. Linda Smith accusing Sen. Patty Murray of Washin~-,rt.on). 
One of the freshest successful campaigns was run by Wisconsin Sen. Huss F11ingold who allowed his 20-point lead to dwindle because he ran on the principle of voluntarily limiting his campaign expenditures. Yet he still defeated his Hepublican opponent who did not limit so-called "soft money" -supportive expenditures paid lilr by outside intorests. 

The most unique winner this year was by far the most outrageous candidate, former profes­sional wrestler and now Minnesota Governor­eleet 'The Body" Ventura. Ventura simply let the Democrats and Hnpublieans toss bombs at one anothnr, a Ia Gingrich style, while he pro­vided the voters with straight talk from his hnart. Ventura may not have ynt demonstrated an ability to govern, but his style thus far gives hope to many that third party candidates can n~gularly succeed. 
One interesting aside to this year's election is the drifting of many religious causes. While the current buzz word liJr pro-life advocates is "partial-birth," other organized church groups are being considerod as one-issue or fringe cle­ments of the electorate. As a result, candidates are increasingly ignoring questionnaires sent by rnligious organizations, induding the Catholic Church. 
In the Washin1-,rton, D.C., area alone, nearly all of the major Democrats did not answer the Washington Archdiocese questionnaire. In fact, the campaign staffs of these candidates insulat­ed their candidates from The Catholic Standard's reporters. Those candidates who avoided Church reporters were themselves Catholics (and eventual winners) running for governor of Maryland and mayor and council of the District of Columbia. 
Upon inspection of the questions posed to the eandidates, I would have also passed if I was a candidate. The questions were in no order of importance and wnre quite slanted in their wording. I would have expected this type of document to eonw from died-in-the-wool Hepubliean televangelists, not my Archdiocese. 
For example, the order of the issues as listed in the "voters' guide" for the governor's race in Maryland wern: 1.) Education-related tax relief, 2.) Religiously-alliliated health earn providers, 3.) Same-sex marriage, 4.) Utility deregulation, 
5. & 6.) Welfare income support and education, 7.) Abstinence education, 8.) Assisted suicide prohibition, 9.) Death penalty, 10.) Gambling, 11.) Housing, 12.) Parental consent, 13. & 14.) Partial-birth abortion ban and taxpayer-funded abortions. and 15.) Textbooks and technology. 
The religious agenda was easily discernible. On the one hand. the gambling question with little affect on Catholicism read, "Do you sup­port the legalization of casino gambling in Maryland?" 
On the other hand, the question regarding textbooks and technology read, "Maryland is not among the 37 states which provide funding for the provision of a variety of constitutionally­permissible goods and services to non public­school students. Will you indude at least $14 million [approximately $112 per student! in your budget to hnlp provide constitutionally­permissible nonreligious tnxtbooks and teehnol­ogy to studonts who attend nonpublic schools in Maryland?" 
The Catholic Church is dangerously dose to bncoming painted as a "fringe" element of the eleetorate like the hard-eore Christian right, and will be doomed to fall from the mainstream of politics. Catholics will be lumped with the Pat Robertsons and Jerry Falwells of the right who are most notably known for sueh stale, partisan Republic:an rhetoric as Falwell's defense of Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr always beginning with. "lie is a good Christian man ... " 
In e-m ails to me, I have been accused of being a whining liberal when in fact I was predicting the downfall of Newt Gingrieh, albeit two years later than it occurrnd. With Gingrich gone, I am predicting (again) that AI Gore and the House Democrats will win the 2000 election. 
Call me whiny. Call me liberal. But please don't cross your fingers when you say that on Friday-the-13th. 
Gary J. Caruso. Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. /louse ofRepresentatives for eighteen years and is a consultant in Washington. D.C. 1/is column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• WHAT YOU MISSED 

The Voting Blues 

Apparently less than 38 percent of Americans did not vote last week. For all of you no-shows out there, here is what you missed. 
About 10:30 a.m. last Tuesday, I 
panicked. Did I remember to regis­
ter? Registration in Indiana is diiTI­
cult. The deadline is Oct. 5, one 
month before the election. If you 
want to vote you have to be able to 
plan at least a month in advance. 
Jeff 


Langan 
Lucky for me, I renewed my license 
last year. If I remembP.r correctly, the 

lady at tho license bureau did all sho could to keep me from registering. She rolled her eyes when I tried to 
make sure that I actually would be registered, but register I did. 
ReaUzing I had overcome the registmtion hurdle, I decided to surf' the Web to learn about the candidates, their arguments, policy positions, etc. This proved to be a daunting task. 
The Web is not quicker and easier. A quick search for "Indiana elections 1998" produced references to elections in California, Idaho, Montana, and Minnesota, everything but Indiana elections. It even produced a reference to Jesse "The Body" Ventura's election page. 
By the way, Miss Ellis, imagine the scene when "The Body" becomes president and battles the Speaker of the House. Potnntial Speaker Livingston has said, "1 don't know who might try to pick on me, but I'm a big kid. I've got a black belt in Tao Kwon Do." I can't wait to see Livingston and Ventura in a cage match. 
Finally, The great wrestlers from the WWF are fmding acceptance in thP larger culture. Miss Ellis shouldn't mock wrestling by focusing on the cur­rent era of generalized decay. Jesse "The Body's" victory shows that tho great wrestlers of the '80s (The Ilulkster, Jake "The Snake" Hoberl<>, Rowdy Roddy Piper, and Hillbllly Jim to name a ft}W), are ready to assume leadership positions among the nation' s political elite. If more of these fel­lows get involved, it will certainly alter the political landscape. 
Baek to the elections. I found some articles about the candidates, mostly how they were doing in the polls, their fund-raising techniques, their emo­tions as elections approached, analysis of their own and others' political advertisements, but not much about their positions on major policy issues. What can one expect from an election day search? 
No time left for argument<;, I made some phone calls. Lucky for me, I know some townies who keep up on local politics. They gave me an earful. So and so Is bad because he got money for a bridge and not for the schools. So and So is good becaUS(l he arranged to get the leaves picked up. So and So is good because he finally cut off his mustache. 
Armed with plenty of info, I headed to the polling station, located in the local mental institution. Entoring the station, I had dilliculty telling who belonged where. I even unsuspectingly tried to check in and was politely directed to another room. Polling rooms always smell like food. This one was no exception. As I entered, three hlgh-s<:hool girls wearing name tags, "clerk," ''clerk" and "sheriff," were eating big greasy hamburgers. They handed me a greasy registration list, asked me to sign, and told me to press hard so the ink would show up on the page. 
I then noticed that many former residents of my houst~ Wt}re still on the voter's list, even though some lived there ten and fifteen years ago. Now. how did they keep voting all these years? The derk, the clerk, and the sheriff didn't ask me for any ID. Now I know why they say, "Vote early and vote often." 
Next, I had to wait in line. I deeided to make some conversation. "So you're the Sheriff, the Clerk, and the Clerk. How'd you get your job?" 
"Anything for a day off school," tho Clerk tells me. "And you get paid, and you get to miss writing dass, civics, and psycholo1,ry. Anything for a day off school." 
"How did you get to be the Clerk, the Clerk. and the Sheriff?" 
Silence. 
"Do they have to swear you in so you ean represent them?" 
"Oh yeah. They came by this morning and we had to say some stull'. and 
they gave us some instructions, and told us what we eould and couldn't 
do." 
This piqued my interest. "What can't you do?" 
"Well, ya know. we can't influence anybody with our political ideology or 
anything like that." One wonders whether it is a requirement or a rule'! The hamburger smell was making me hungry, so I asked them where they got the burgers. 
"Well, ya know," Clerk 2 says pushing a big bite between her cheek and gum, "they're from a place called Bizzel's or Busby's or Bubsy's, I don't know what they're called right now, but their burgers are really good. I nat lots of 'em. But it's terrible trying to eat all these burgers while tryin · to do your job." 
My time to vote arrived. I couldn't figure out how to dose the curtain. The inspector told me to pull down the red lever. Being an informed voter, I didn't vote straight party, which is an option in Indiana, but flicked one lever at a time. There was one candidate in particular I wanted to get on the school board because this candidate visited my house last woek. Of course, the election tricksters put this particular race on the lower right part of the ballot below the waist. They must have been thinking, out of sight, out of' mind. But I found the lever and proudly cast my vot.e. 
When I finally re-pulled the lever to open the curtain and hmve, I pulled so hard the whole machine shook. You might say this was a vote that would have made Jesse "The Body" proud. 
This, my friends, is American Democracy in action. 
JeffLangan is a Government graduate student. Fans of"llacksau•" Jim Duggin and "The Junkyard DogH angry with their omission from the list of fonner wrestlers with bright political prospects can e-mail their complaints to Langan.4@nd.edu. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those ofThe Observer. The Obseroer would surely hat•e included "Hacksaw" Jim Duggin and 'The Junkyard Dog. » while throwing in Nickolai Volkov and the Iron Sheik to boot. 


w E 
ceneN D 
A-JHE d
vnSERVER ------------Fri ay, November 13, 1998 

--~---­




r-------------------------~------------­
D

w E ceneN 
Friday, November 13,1998----------------O THE 
BSERVER 






VICTORY AT SEA,_. 








A LITTLE TRIP? 

THE MATCH 
DIRECTIONS DISTANCE 
1. Go North on US-33 to 1-80 EAST. 2.2 miles 

.vs. UP 
2. Go East on 1-80 EAST (Portions toll) to Ohio. 79.8 miles 
J· . . IN THE 


3. Gu East on 1-80 EAST (Portions toll) passing by Toledo, 222.9 miles 011 to 1-76 EAST (Exit 15). 
PAST 

4. Go East on 1-76 EAST (Portions toll) to Pennsylvania. 23.1miles 
Series Record: 
5. Go East on 1-76 EAST (Portions toll) to 1-70 EAST. 162.8 miles 
Notre Dame leads 61-9-1 
6. 
Go East on 1-70 EAST (Portions toll) to Maryland. 25.6 miles 

7. 
Go East on 1-70 EAST passing by Hagerstown, 52.5 miles MD to 1-270 SOUTH {Exit 53). 



Games at Navy 
The games are usually played at the
8. Go South on 1-270 SOUTH passing by Rockville, 32.5 miles 
MD to 1-495 WEST. 
Meadowlands, but this year it's in the new 
IJ. Go West on 1-495 WEST to US-50 (Exit 19). 17.4 miles 
Washington Redskins stadium. 
10. Go East on US-50 towards Annapolis, MD. 21.2 miles 

Games at Notre Dame: 
Notre Dame leads 22-3
Total Distance: 640.0 miles 

Last Navy win: 
1963 (35-14 at Notre Dame) 

Last Notre Dame win: 
1997 (21-17 at Notre Dame) 
This year marks the 72nd meeting ofNotre 
Dame and Navy. Notre Dame has won the 
past 34 games against Navy. 

-
--··------------------~-~--.-------------------, 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Drexler lifts U of Houston 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Most college basketball fans come to see the players. At the University of Houston, they're coming to see the coach. 
The Cougars are preparing for their first sea­son under future Hall of Farner Clyde Clyde Drexler, who surprised fans this spring by retir­ing from the Houston Rockets to return to his alma mater. 
Drexler has yet to coach a regular season game, but all 8,500 seats at Hofheinz Arena have been sold for every game thanks in part to a "Come Glyde With Clyde" advertising campaign. The school also has sold all 24 of its new luxury boxes for the next three years. 
That sort of preseason frenzy dido't even hap­pen during Drexler's Phi Slama Jama days. 
"Actually, it kind of takes pressure off us," said freshman Gee Gervin, son of former NBA great George Gervin who came to Houston specifically to play for Drexler. "They are coming to see what Clyde does. It should be fun. Clyde brings a lot of exposure for us. He's bringing the fans, and that brings attention to the team." 
The Cougars finished 9-20 last season under Alvin Brooks. They went 2-14 in Conference USA to finish at the bottom of the league, the same place they're predicted to finish this season. 
Drexler, mindful that his presence could be a distraction, has closed practices to avoid what he calls "a circus atmosphere" of people watching his every move. 
"Coming right out of the NBA, people are inter­ested to know how you like the coaching profes­sion," Drexler said. "I just want the players to be totally focused for what we are trying to do." 
With fans banned from practice, the Cougars are left alone with Drexler, whose presence could be intimidating. 
It's not. 

"He makes people feel comfortable, not like he's a superstar and you can't talk to him," guard Roy Spears said. "He greets everyone with open arms. You feel comfortable and not afraid to tell him what's on your mind." 
Returning starter Chad Hendrick said the 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Student Tennis Clinic -Come Analysis and Pl~~yiiigSit11lilt~iOIIS <\t quet and tenms;esnoe~Fto. information, • 
free clinic presented by the men • ing situations highlight this event No advance registration necessary. Call Cougars want to make a good impression on their famous coach. 
"It makes you a little nervous because he expects so much from us," Hendrick said. "Sometimes you wonder if he were out there, what would he do? We have to be up to his stan­dards." 
Drexler doesn't think his star status is a prob­lem. 
"I am who I am, you can't change that," Drexler said. "At the same time, the guys have been great to work with. They've shown a lot of discipline and that's made me feel good. They are willing participants." 
The Cougars lost last year's leading rebounder, Galen Robinson, and leading assist man Shamahn McBride, who combined for 25.2 points per game. They return three starters: Hendrick, Treva Crosby and Kenny Younger. The incoming freshman class includes Gervin and Moses Malone Jr. 
"I don't spend sleepless nights thinking about expectations," Drexler said. "Our two best play­ers left and we didn't have a chance to recruit, so there aren't a lot of expectations. I do expect them to compete and remain respectable." 
The Drexler attraction has already pulled in the makings of a great recruiting class for next season. He signed two of the city's top high school players and a highly rated junior college star on Wednesday, the beginning of the early signing period. 
Guard Antonio Falu averaged 22.1 points and 
8.7 assists and 3.3 steals last season while lead­ing Houston Waltrip to the Class 4A state cham­pionship and forward George Williams averaged 13 points, 15.3 rebounds and four blocks per game as a junior for Houston Elkins. Center Chris Anderson averaged 10.1 points and 7.7 rebounds last season for Blinn Junior College. 
Drexler played for former Cougars coach Guy 
V. Lewis, who attends practices and offers advice. Drexler said he takes the advice, but won't copy the trademark red checkered towel Lewis used on the bench. 
"That was Guy V's legacy and it served him well," Drexler said, "but I'll have to create my own superstitions." 

• WOMEN's COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Lady Vols start season out at Purdue 
Associated Press women's basketball, can be 
daunting. 

One thing that Tennessee Purdue coach Carolyn coach Pat Summitt has fig­Peck saw that intimidation ured out in 24 seasons of factor personally when she coaching is how to get her was an assistant on players' attention. Her No. 1 Summitt's staff from 1993­Lady Vols started this week 95. She watched as with a visit to the White Tennessee intimidated House as the defending opposing players even dur­NCAA national champions. ing warmups, and she is They raise their champi­determined not to let that onship banner and receive happen to her team. their rings 
"We want to go tonight when out, play hard they play host to and play our Portland in their game and do the season opener. things we've 
But in case the worked on, and players want to let the chips fall enjoy the view where they may from the top, so we don't get Summitt will be caught up," said taking them to Peck, who will be 
West Lafayette, Ind., for their first real test of the season Sunday against No. 5 Purdue in the State Farm Hall of Fame Tip-off Classic. 
"Anytime you take a team on the road, regardless of which team you might take -a veteran team, a young team, a combination there­of, which is what we have ­it always gets their atten­tion," Summitt said. "And this group can obviously use that." 
The Lady Vols' already hectic week became even crazier on their return flight from Washington. They were forced to land in Nashville and board a bus for a three-hour ride east to Knoxville, where they didn't arrive until 4:30 a.m., forc­ing Summitt to rethink when to hold practice. 
The company that Tennessee has been keeping the past few years as the winner of six national cham­pionships, combined with the Lady Vols' stature as one of the best teams in 
coaching against Summitt for the first time. 
The classic features No. 10 North Carolina vs. No. 11 Kansas in the first game, followed by the Lady Boilermakers and Tennessee. At least 10,000 fans are expected to attend. 
Summitt took Tennessee to the inaugural classic in 1993, and she picked up her SOOth career victory in that game against another for­mer assistant. The Lady Vols beat Ohio State and coach Nancy Darsch. 
By playing Purdue, this season's Lady Vols dig into a schedule that takes them on the road to face Top 25 opponents like Louisiana Tech and Connecticut. It's part of Summitt's philosophy of building for March and the NCAA tournament. 
But Summitt said facing the toughest competition keeps players from looking too far down the road. 
"It improves our practice and just our intensity overall in terms of preparation," she said. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
....._  NOTICES WANTEDI I  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  87 Plymouth Horizon. Good cond. $1600 obo. Day-282·2816  Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048  "Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Check out our Hot Jamaica  
THE COPY SHOP SPRING BREAK·PLAN NOW!  with private baths,$80­ Eve.-291-7838  Need 4 LSU TIX  Packages tor the Class of '99!Stop  
LaFortune Student Center Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  $115,Middlebury.30 miles from  Tom  Pat@ x0680  in at Anthony Travel in the  
We're Open A Lot!!! S.Padre.14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs.  campus.  LaFortune Student Center and  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Free Parties.America's best prices Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm & packages.Campus sales reps Sat: Noon • 6:00 pm wanted Earn free trips + cash Sun: Noon -Midnight 1.800.SURFS.UP  Toll Road,Exit #107 1-800-418-9487 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  TICKETS I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  NEED 2 LSU TIX!!! call kev 0673 ND vs. Navy Football Ticket!!  check out the best Spring Break vacations around.Get your deposit in by Dec.18 and save .Don't take a chance with an unknown agency or  
When you need copies, www.studentexpress.com  AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272­ GAMES.272-6306  (219)634-1439  some 1-800 number. Limited space  
we're open I  6306  MUST SELL!!  available,so book now!  
Early Spring Break •ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST  WALK TO CAMPUS  TICKETMART Inc  need 4 LSU GA's  Anthony Travel,lnc. LaFortune Student Center  
Specials/Bahamas Party Cruise!6 SPRING BREAK PRICES TO  2·5 BEDROOM  BUY-SELL-TRADE  call scott x3381  631-7080  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals! SOUTH PADRE (FREE  232-2595  Notre Dame Football Tickets  
Awesome MEALS) ,CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY •  258-1111  Need 4 LSU GAs. Call Pat @ 4­ 
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From WEST, PANAMA CITY.REPS Florida!Cancun & Jamaica NEEDEDfTRAVEL FREE,EARN Air,Hotei.Meals &Parties CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  FOR SALE  No student tickets please  0680 WANTED: 2 AEROSMITH  IDEA CLUB -Now Forming­219-675-4902  
$339!Panama City Room With 6+.  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  FOR SALE  TICKETS, NEED GOOD SEATS.  
....,  Kitchen,? Free Parties WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen 800-838·8203. $1 49!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  FOOTBALL TICKETS 271·9412 WANTED  271-9543 I NEED LSU TIX!!!!!!!  Hey you, I still love you for who you are and where you're going .  
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT- Bed box set. not available in  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  PLEASE CALL 634-3006  
Four Flags Antique Mall Holiday Workers earn up to $2000+/month  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  271-1526  
Open House (w/tips & benefits). World Nov. 14th & 15th Travel! Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­Prizes Refreshments Special $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517­ .......................********  ND Ftbl. tix BUY·SELL  PERSONAL  A.A. Frank Daily was sacked by 1 A -and liked it  
Sales 336-4235  MICHIGAN-NEW BUFFALO  273-3911  
218 S. 2nd St. Ext.C55841 Downtown Niles Ml FOR RENTILOST & FOUND I  New Condos overlook the vast wet­lands. Walk to town/beach. Under $190k.  ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 ND FOOTBALL TIX  FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  Look out for dead parrots Whose your daddu?  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR LOST­ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE Silver clauddagh ring and silver TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. bracelet. REWARD BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY-Call Maureen @ 0910 rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. Lost Keys on black Adidas lanyard 1 ,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR with Swiss Army Knife CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER· call Ryan x1038 TIES.272-6551  Ruth Realtors 1-888·225-RUTH............................... PHONECARDS $20 buys 282 mins. Contact: Andrea -634-2584 Dori -684·3339 MiMi -634-0907  FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Need LSU tix 289-2918 2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by 11/6.Call Scott 80(}-755-2323 x47091v msg  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!! Full Color Desktop Publishing Services are now available at The Copy Shop in LaFortune. Design, Scanning, Printing and Copying in COLOR!  If you're reading these and you're not in the Observe, you need to do something with yourself Even if you are. you need to do something Joe Torre, Manager of the year. Only in New York.  

....----~------------------~----------~--------~--~ 
f-riday, November I 3, I998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Georgia Tech a game from winning ACC 
Associated Press 
CI.EMSON, S.C. 

Georgia Toc.h running back Joe Burns was thinking about only Oll(l thing during the last drivo: "Thn soason." 
"We kept saying, 'We've got to scorn. wn'vn got to score.' Wn know if' wn wantod to win the ACC championship, we had to do it," said Burns. whosn !-yard TD run with one minute left lifted No. 22 Gnorgia Teeh to a 24-21 victo­ry over (JHmson on Thursday night. 
With a victory at homo next wnek against Wake Forest. tho Ynllow .Jackots (7-2, 6-1) clinch a tie for their first title in eight years. 
For Clemson (2-R, 1-7), it was another dark night in its blackest season in 23 years. Tlw Tigers wore up 21-17 in the 1il1Jrth quartnr and ehoked ofl' one c;,~orgia Tech drive. 
But Toch quarterback Jon llarnilton got the ball back with 2:30 to go, finding Charlin Bogers for 28 yards and l>tlZ White for 15 to Clnmson's 4. Two plays latnr, Burns burst in for the go­
ahead sc~on~. 
The Tigm·s' final possession eouldn't get past its 23. 
"If we didn't get it and we lost the ACC titlo, wo wouldn't have anyone to point the fin­gers at except ourselves," said llamilton, whn was 17-of-32 for I1)0 yards. "That's what kPpt us going." 
Georgia Tech, which came 
in with the league's highest· 
scoring offense, looked help­
less most of the game. 
Hamilton, the conference 
l1~adnr in pass ellieinncy, twice 
dropped the ball while run­
ning. White, second in the 
league with night TD catches, 
bobbled away his ninth in tho 
second quarter after gaining 
two steps on the defender. 
Moanwhile, Clemson quar­terback Brandon Streeter was on target with a 3·yurd TD pass to Marcus Martin and a 48-yarder to Brian Wofford for a 21-17lead. 
"You can't win gamos liko that all the time," Hamilton said. "But it shows our 
character, shows our team­work, shows wo can como back and make the plays when we need it." 
Hamilton was burned by a late Death Valley comeback two years ago in a 28-25 loss, but said he only remembered a 41-:H loss in the year's opening game against Boston College. 
"We had a c:haneo to win that, but we didn't,'' llamilton said. "We've come a long way since then." 
Hamilton shook off two ineompletions to lead the final scoring drive. As Burns stepped over the goal line, Hamilton pumped his fists and glided bltCk to his teammates on tho sidelines. 
White caught seven passes for 7l yards. 
•NBA ­


NBA lockout turns to huge losses 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
There came a time 2 1/2 weeks ago, with 
Michael Jordan giving the final push just like he 
dons on the court, when the NBA lockout might 
have been settled. 
Progress was being made, the sides were talking 
earnestly and unoff'ieial proposals were being 
lloatod by both sides. 
It was time to make a deal, yet no one wanted to 
take tho final shot. 
Looking back Thursday on that moment, com­
missioner David Stern admits it was a golden 
opportunity that shouldn't have passed without a 
better Jight. 
''I've been doing this for 30 years, and I'm used to negotiating through the night. At 1 a.m., I was just gntting started," Stern said of the 8 1/2-hour bargaining session Oct. 28. 
"I wouldn't say we were dose to a deal, but we were on track. We were trying. But it was dear that they were going to reject whatever number we worn going to come up with." 
That one moment of reluctance to take a bold 
step is one of the reasons why the NBA lockout is 
now in its I 34th day and showing no sign of being 
rnsolved. 
Stern expected to receive a phone call from union director Billy Hunter on Thursday after Hunter vowed to make one. But the eall apparent­ly was never placed. giving Stern one more reason to view anything Hunter says with heavy skepti­cism. 
As tlHl lack of trust increases, the possibility decreases that a lengthy NBA season can be saved. The entif'(J November schedule has been lost, half of the Decembnr schedule is gone and it appears the sides won't make a deal on a new col­lective bargaining agreement until the last possi­ble moment. 
When that time will come -Dec. 10? Dee. 25? Jan. 4'?-is anyone's guess. 
In an hour-long interview with The Associated Press in his Fifth Ave. ollice, Stern refused to set a drop-dead date for saving the regular season, but said some owners are gung-ho to scrap it. 
Stern also expressed dismay at the rhetoric coming from the union and said the All-Star game 

won't be canceled simply to squeeze in extra 
games. 

"The question is not whether wn'll cancnl the 
season, but whether we'II makn a dnaI," Stnrn 
said, "bncausc if we don't make a deal, tho season 
will not be played. 
"Thny have told us that unless we are preparnd 
to continue paying the samn pnrcnntage that wn're 
curr·ently paying, then thny are preparod to havn 
the season cancelnd. So thny haven't given the 
owners much of an option. Thny have thrown 
down a gauntlet. 
"As far as I'm concerned, the enormity of tho 
losses that we're suiTering should require us to bn 
negotiating now, but we just can't seem to get it 
done. We can't get to first basil." 
No formal talks have bnen held since last Friday, 
and the full bargaining tnams, including owners 
and players, haven't been in the samn room since 
the night Jordan shownd up. 
The players have sincn said they won't return to the table until the owners are ready to givn ground. And llunter says many players and agents bnlieve he has already put too many concnssions on the tabl!1 -a luxury tax, esr.row tax, n~duction in annual salary cap increasns, a rnduction in the maximum raise from 20 pnrcent to 10 pnrcent and a lengthier rookie salary s<~ale. 
"Those are all nice things," Stern said, "but they don't address the fundamnntal issue of what a fair split is. 
"In fairness to them, those am diiTerent things that will try to achieve that result. But wn did that under the old dmd and thn pnrc~entage (of rewnues devoted to salaries) went from 52 to 57. We wnre hoping that it wouldn't, but it did. So now we nond something that tP!ls us where we'll bn. Period." 
Stern said thn ownnrs would stand to lose more than $400 million if thn season was canceled, while the players would lose $1 billion in salaries. 
Now that an R2-game season is an impossibility, the impetus to get a deal done beforn the eutofl' date -whenever it is -seems to lin with players wanting to stem further salary lossns. But the play­ers don't expect tlu~ ownnrs to move orr tlwir cur­rnnt proposal until the 11th hour. 
"The sad part about that is the enormous losses that will have bnen summ~d by both sides at that point," Stern said. 
-
-

·--------...-----------.~------------------------~----­
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 13, 1998 
• CoLLEGE BnsKHBALL

-

Jayhawks ride ups and downs 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. 
Take it from someone who's been coaching basketball for 40 years-the Big 12 is sinking and rising at the same time. 
"I don't think there's a team in our league right now that you could say is in the top 15," Oklahoma State coach Eddie Sutton said. "But the overall quality is better." 
Behind the extraordinary tal­ents of All-Americans Paul Pierce and Raef LaFrentz. Kansas went 69-6 over the past two seasons. including a remarkably domi­nant 36-2 in the Big 12. Packing such national prominence, the Jayhawks lifted team power rankings throughout the league. 
Now Kansas, which also lost 3­point specialist Billy Thomas. isn't even picked to repeat as conference champs. That distinc­tion goes to Sutton's Cowboys. who return four starters from last year's team that went 22-7. 
At the same time the Jayhawks are coming back to the pack, a number of Big 12 teams appear ready to rise. 
Missouri, with a talent-laden freshman class for Norm Stewart. is an intriguing possibil­ity, as is Oklahoma. 
And what about Texas? The Longhorns have one of the league's three new head coaches in Rick Barnes and the player revolt that chased Tom Penders out of Austin has been quelled. Even though they can't agree on the spelling of their first names, the Longhorns are blessed with gifted athletes in Kris Clack and Chris Mihm. 
Many believP this could also be a breakthrough year for Kansas State and troubled-but-talented senior forward Manny Dies. And while Nebraska lost all-confer­ence point guard Tyronne Lue, the Huskers retained the league's top returning rebounder in senior center Venson I Iamilton. 
Even Texas A&M is expecting 
improvement from the 7-20 
record in coach Tony Barone's 
last season. 
"We know how to finish last," 
said new head coach Melvin 
Watkins. who has most of the 
Aggies' rebounding and scoring 
returning. "It's a matter of taking 
it one game at a time. one str,p at 
a time. Every day they're going 
to hear the word. 'Win."' 
Gone are the days when it was 
"Kansas and the Irrr.levant 
Eleven." 
"What you're going to see is 
everybody is eloser to Kansas," 
Sutton said. "We just don't have 
a Kansas to showcase the confer­
ence like we had in the past." 
-
Want to escape those winter blues? 
(J..~e..r hck~h. <Tr<~~e..( e..dV\(<11 
71/1(<11 f<~~Of(<11 
..


London . $158\\ 
. . ' . ":· ·.~ .. 

-

Madrid $238 !.7: 
Vienna ·$21~ 4.:· 
Cancun ·..$250 ;:~. 
Fans &N froM huSia~t...pch Yn1!f blse4 On a 
R.T parchaiL Faru do notlndud• talala,whldl 
cao meal ""'-$J UHI $10.1nt1 Student ID . 
m., M ,...Uired. hna are valid for depanun&Jn low a-..Oft and ,,.. sut.t.a. to_ chan.... ·> •"•ttrktlonJ •pt,. Cal for eMir law cloMeatlc: ,..;., 
and farn to och.-worid wida ct..unauons. ' Don't for,pt co order )'DUr Eunllpud : 

_-..:11::...:.1i.=.a\l.:..::e.:....f_~ 
CIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange 

1-800-2Council 
www.counciltravel.com
-· 
• BOXING 



Young girl set to duke it out down under 
Associated Press 

GOLD COAST, Australia 
An 11-year-old girl is set to fight in a boxing tournament which has been banned by one local government and condemned by medical authorities. 
Zoe Norford was nominated for next week's girls' under­13 championship of the breakaway Australian Amateur Boxing League, an official said Friday. 
"There is nothing illegal about what we are doing," AABL secretary Dennis Magnay said.: 
He admitted the organiza­tion was forced to move the tournament from New South Wales to neighboring Queensland because state laws against female boxing existed in the>former. He con~ ceded son1e people might be shocked by the idea of young girls boxing at the tourna­ment, scheduled for Nov. 16· 18. 
"I understand how it can be a shock to their systems because it's something new. but given a few years it will be absolutely nothing," Magnay said. "We make sure that they are well protected -that's the main thing. 
"They wear a head guard, a compulsory breast protector, slightly softer gloves and box shorter rounds than the boys." 
Magnay said women boxers also had to undergo a preg­nancy test the day of their fights. 
lie said he was sure that in a few years, when people understood more about women in boxing, it would become more accepted. 
"So many people are fright­ened about things they don't understand." Magnay said. 

Still. the Jayhawks have won seven conference titles in the past eight years and nobody expects them to just go to pieces. Hoy brought in a good freshman class. including highly regarded point guard .Jeff Boschee. The same preseason poll that picked Oklahoma State first dared not predict anything lower than sec­ond for the Jayhawks. 
Injuries, however. have further clouded the picture as forwards 
T.J. Pugh and Ashante Johnson are recovering from surgery. 
"We're way br,hind where we'd like to be. But the calendar keeps moving so we've got to be ready," Williams said. 
One thing Williams knows not to expect is sympathy from his coaching peers. In the past two years. only Stewart has been able to beat him. 
"The other coaches would never agree Kansas is an under­dog, and could probably care less about our injury situation," Williams said. "I liked it better when we were picked No. 1. But if it means less pressure on our kids. that's fine." 
Stewart, the dean of Big 12 coaches. has the preseason pick for freshman of the year in Keyon Dooling, a 6-foot-3 guard from Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. 
"Keyon Dooling is a guy who had a lot of rr.cognition. and he deserved it," Stewart said. "He's a very good athlete. The thing that sticks out in my mind is he's very down to earth. A nice per­son, and he's verv talented. We just don't want io put all our expectations on Keyon because he's just a freshman." 
Sutton figures the only starter he lost. center Brett Robisch. may be harder to replace than people think. 
But he's not shying away from predictions that this team will be special. 
''I'm beginning my 40th year of coaching. Some years you don't look forward to with much optimism." he said. "But I look forward to coaching this ballclub. I like the team. Last season ... by the end of the year, we were a very good basketball team. That's one reason we're ranked so high." 


• ..

.&··-~;;.-~of!_ '~ ······~···-·····-·········-----·········-·······-·: 
• 
Friday, November 13, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MAJOR LEAGE BASEBALL 

Torre wins AL Manager of Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Once again, Joe Torre breezed to a big win. 
Torre was the OV!JI'WhPiming choice as the AL Mannger of' the Year on Thursday, earning the award after his New York Yankees set a league record for victory and swept the World Series. 
"You don't expeet anything." Torre said. "A lot of rnanagMs. because they have a good team. don't ner.essarily get this award." 
Torrn got 23 of 2H first-place votes, four see­onds and one third for 128 points in voting by tlw Baseball Writers' A'isociation ofAmel'ica. 
Boston's Jimy Williams was a distant second wilh three lirsts. 12 ser.onds ;wd eight thirds for 5? points. Anaheim's Terry Collins was third with two 11rsts. spven seconds and seven thirds !'or 31\ points. Tnxas' Johnny Oates was fourth with II points, followed by Cleveland's Mike Hargrove (81. Toronto's Tim Johnson was tind for sixth wilh Chicago's Jerry Manuel (4 
nadJ). 
"After winning the World Series, this is obvi­ously a tremendous honor because thn people who vote for this follow baseball on a day-to­day basis," Torn~ said. 
Torre split tlw award with Oates in 1996 after lnading thn Yankens to th1~ World Serins title. 
Torr·n. elosr. to getting a two-year r.xtcnsion from the Yankees through the 2001 season, also won ThP Assodatr~d l>ress Manager of the Ynar award last wenk. 
NPw York finishod tho regular season 114-48. Th!' YankePs wnnt 11-2 in the postseason. cap­ping the year by sweeping the San Diego Padres in the World Series. At 125·50, they had the most combined regular and postseason wins ever. 
"What makes me a good manager is pretty good players," Torre said. "You can't win the Derby on a quarter horse. We have quality here and quality with a lot of heart." 
One of those key players is AL batting cham­pion Bernie Williams, and his future was clear­ly on Torre's mind Thursday. Unsubstantiated rumors have had Arizona offering the free agent center fielder $100 million, reports the Diamondbacks have denied. 
''I guess that could mean Bernie is gone," Torre said, "but I'm not going to necessarily believe everything I hear until I hear it from (general manager) Brian Cashman or Bernie Williams makes a phone call to me." 
Williams visited the Diamondbacks this week and is set to visit the Baltimore Orioles and Boston Red Sox next w~1ek. Planning for a future without him. the Yankees are l:)hnging in I3rian Jordan for a visit next week. 
. "He's obviously one of the guys were looking at. Hopefully we don't have to make that deci­sion," Torre said. "Yes. he would be a good replacement. I don't like to make eomparisons. Bernie meant so much to this organization the years he was here and hopefully in the future." 
Torre was happy to learn Dtwid Cone will be baek. agreeing Wednesday night to an $8 mil­lion, one-year deal. Cone went 20-7 this year. becoming a 20-game winner for the first time in a d1~cade. 


The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topped with sizzling sausage, egg and melted cheese tastes so good, it's enough to make anybody happy in the morntng. If only getting through the rest of the day was as easy. 
(AI part1CIP811f19 resrauranls During breakfast hours only.) 
1he Huddle -L.al'"onune ::,tudent c.ntar 
BURGER 

KING 
It just tastes better. 
page 17 
•NHL 

Salo's shutout leads Islanders to 4-0 win 
Associated Press 
UNIONDALE. N.Y. 
Tommy Salo made 21 saves for his league-leading fourth shutout and Mariusz Czerkawski sr.ored his first two goals this season as the New York Islanders beat the Montreal Canadiens 4-0 Thursday night. 
Barry Hiehter and Hobert Heichel also scored for the Islanders. who evened their record at 8-8 -the sixth time this season New York reached the .500 mark. 
Salo, who faced few tough chanc•es, has started all I G games for the Islanders. Half of his wins have been shutouts. 
Montreal was shut out for the second straight game. after losing to New Jersey 3-0 on Wednr.sday. night. 
Jocelyn Thibault made his 

l'irst start in five games for the Canadiens and turned aside 21 shots. Thibeau hasn't won since a 3-2 victory over Ottawa on Oct. 21. 
The first period had few whistles early on, as the teams played a streteh of over four minutes without a stop­page. The only goal of the period came with 1 :25 left. as Hiehter snuck in !'rom the point and deflected Ted Donato's pass past Thibault. 
Cznrkawski seored twic1~ in the sr.cond period to put New York up 3-0. lie beat Thibault with a wrist shot !'rom the right circle at 4:53 and put a backhander past the goalie's pads at 8:56. 
Reir.hel pickPd up his fourth goal 13 seconds into the third. With a sweeping motion. hn knocked thn puck away from defnnseman Patrice Brisebois and betwer.n Thibault's pads. 
Struggling Caps fall to Hasek &Buffalo 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Dominik Hasek made 2:{ saves for his third shutout of the year and the Buffalo Sabres r.xtended their unbeaten streak to seven gamns with a 2-0 vic­tory over the struggling Washington Capitals on Thursday night. 
The Sabres are 4-0-3 in their last seven games. r.qualing the current 5-0-2 streak by tho Phoenix Coyotr.s for the NHL's longest unbAaten string of tlw season. 
Hasek. who has started and finished each of Buffalo's 13 games this year, recorded his 36th career shutout. 
Dixon Ward and Miroslav Satan scored for the Sabres. who are 2-0-2 in their last four road games. 
Washington. coming ofT an eight-goal outburst in Ottawa on Nov. 7, was shut out for the second time this season and has not won at MCl Center since blanking Anaheim 1-0 on Oct. 10 in tho season opener. The Capitals are l-5-2 in their last eight games. 
Capitals goaltender Olie Kolzig, playing in his first game since signing a four-year. $12 million eontract extension on Nov. 9. made 23 saves but couldn't prevent Washington !'rom falling to 1-4-2 at home. 

Ward's fourth goal caromed ofT two Capitals and the right post for a 1-0 Buffalo lead 2:33 into the game. Ward cut loose from the right point and tlw 
..
puck glancnd ol'l' a diving Mike Eaglns in tlw l'irele and Ken Klee, who was clearing Vadav Varada from in front of tlw net. 
Early in the socon d period. when Kolzig eouldn't smother a loose puek during a goal-mouth scramble. Satan skatnd down tlw slot to whac~k it past him !'or a 2-0 lead. 
The Capitals thought thr.y had scon~d 14:58 into tlw sec­ond period. but rPI'nree Blaim~ Angus nullified an apparent goal by Craig Berube when a video replay showed that Berube was in the cmase when he scored from the right post. 
Washington was 0-for-6 on the power play and didn't test Hasek until late in the game. With 8:30 left. llasek gobbled up Brian Bellows' wrist shot from deep in the slot. 
A minute later. llasek r.ame out of the net to block .Joe Juneau's attempt from tlw left wing. The puck ricocheted right back to Juneau's stick. but his sceond shot in the scquenee trickled inches wide of the left post. 
See the pullout section 



Notre 6°:me vs. ~ 
Navy previews. 
- 
PAT GORMAN!:..~~·.~ """~:~. ~:e:f!J!!!J!I . --;;~i "You're still cute!"~  - 
Lrwe. ~. Va«. ~ 'tJS ad {J~ Ve4f 'tJS. {J~ 'tJ6. fJUiultlf (~e ~~)ad 7ut4 tj (OS?)  

page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 13, 1998 
• HOCKEY 


Hockey hosts Bowling Green, national champ Michigan 

By TED BASSANI Sporrs Writer 
This weekend. the Notre Dame hockey team has a chance to further solidify their standing atop the CCHA with home conference games versus the Falcons of Bowling Green and the Michigan Wolverines, the defending national champi­ons. 
Tonight. the Irish square off against Bowling Green and head coach Buddy Powers, who recently notched his 200th career coaching win. To the surprise of many, the Faleons have started off well. tallying seven points in their first seven CCHA games (3-3-1). Their biggest team accomplishment so far was their 6-5 upset of the Northern Michigan Wildcats, currently ranked ninth in the nation, on NMU's home ice. 
Last season, the Falcons struggled to a last place finish in the CCHA {6-21-3) thanks to numerous injuries, none more noticeable than the one in which forward Adam Edinger tore up his knee. "They had a very strange year last year," said Irish coach Dave Poulin. "They had injuries, they had a year every coach fears." 
Even though the Falcons struggled last season, they man­aged to play Notre Dame close in each of the three games between the two elubs. The Irish squeaked out two one-goal wins (including one in OT) and a 
-
tie in the three games. 
The first game between the two teams, which took place last November in the Joyce Center, provided one of the most memorable moments or the season. Center Ben Simon displayed his great speed and stickhandling talents on a great end-to-end rush as the Irish were on the penalty kill. 
The rush culminated with a brilliant shot to the lower left side of the net, all as Simon shielded himself from a BGSU defender, to provide what turned out to be the game-win­ning goal for Notre Dame in a tight 2-1 contest. 
This year, the Falcons come in healthy, with a big, physical team capable of winning in a conference like the CCHA, which is known for physical play. "Their defense is huge; they will clear out in front of the net," said Poulin. 
The leader of this Falcons squad is senior captain Dan Price, who leads their team in goals (five), points {10), and is second in assists {five). In addi­tion to his experience and lead­ership capabilities, according to Notre Dame's head coach, "He's an all-around player. He'll kill penalties for them, he'II be on the power play, he'll take a reg­ular shift. He's a big, strong, physical guy." 
Perhaps an Achilles heel so far for the Falcons has been their penalty-killing unit, cur­rently ranked last in the confer­





~ CCHA 

__ , "­

Standings
lJ ~ 

CONFERENCE OVERALL GPW-L-T Pts GF GA W-L-T GF GA 
1 Notre Dame 2 Michigan St. 3 Northern Michigan 4 Ferris State 5 Michigan 6 Bowling Green 7 Western Michigan 8 Miami (Ohio) 9 Ohio State 10 Alaska Fairbanks 1 1 Lake Superior St. 
ence, operating thus far at 80 percent efficiency. This weak­ness plays right into Notre Dame's hands, as they come in with the league's top power play unit at 29.7 percent. 
Saturday night on Joyce Center ice, Notre Dame will play host to last year's national champions, the Michigan Wolverines. Last season, these two teams saw plenty of each other, as they not only met three times in the regular sea­son [in conference play], but also three times in the first round of the CCI-lA playoffs in Ann Arbor. Michigan totaled five wins in the six games, two of which included their share of controversy. In fact, Michigan has won 29 of the last 31 meet­ings with the Irish. The last time the Irish defeated the Wolverines at the Joyce Center was a 6-3 decision on Feb. 25, 1995. 
6 6 6 6 5 7 8 8 6 6 6 

5-1-0  10  24  1 1  7-1-1  35  20  
4-0-2  10  20  9  5-0-2  23  10  
4-2-0  8  24  15  8-2-0  44  24  
4-2-0  8  24  1 5  5-2­ l  30  19  
4-1-0  8  16  IO  5-2-0  23  I7  
3-3-I  7  2I  29  4-4-I  28  36  
I-3-4  6  I6  26  I-3-4  I6  26  
I-5-2  4  25  32  2-6-2  3 1  39  
1-3-2  4  13  1 7  1-6-2  22  31  
2-4-0  4  I5  25  3-5-0  21  32  
0-5-1  I  9  18  0-7-I  15  30  

With all the recent history between the two programs, one might think this Saturday's match-up might be a grudge match of some kind. Not so, says coach Poulin. 
"What happened last March made us look forward to this season, but not specifically to playing Michigan." 
"No one forgets things like that," said Simon, "but I don't think we're specifically geared up for anything in practice. We're just going to play our game and take it to them." 
This Saturday's game is inter­esting not only in terms of the conference standings, but because Notre Dame comes in ranked one place higher in the national polls than the defend­ing national champion Wolverines. But, says Simon, "I don't think the rankings mean anything right now [this early in the season]." 
Michigan, like almost all CC:HA teams, comes in with a good combination of size and speed. Players like senior cap­tain Bubba Berenzweig play a strong, physical game on defense while forwards lih senior Bobby Hayes provide the offensive game. Said Simon of the team's all around capabili­ties, "They're big, but they're also fast and quick." 
The Wolverines lost two key members of last year's champi­onship team, goaltender Marty Turco and right wing Bill Muckalt. Turco led the team to four straight NCAA semifinal appearances, including national championships in 1996 and 1998. He also holds the NCAA reeord for wins by a goaltender with 125 for his career. Muekalt led the team and the conferene<) last season in points (32-35-67), and finishod second in the con­ferenco with 32 goals. 


The Observer/John Daily 

Senior defenseman Benoit Contoir tied his career high with three 
assists in Notre Dame's 4-3 victory last Saturday. The Irish will count 
on similar support to hold their place atop the CCHA. 
-
DON'T DROWN IN CONFUSION! Attend an Open Forum Meet Dean Mark Roche: Dean of the Arts & Letters College Personally ask him about the Arts & Letters College and vvhere you can seek help. 
Wednesday, November 18, 7:30 LaFortune Ballroom Food and drinks vvill be available. Sponsored by the Arts & Letters Student Advisory Council 
-
4:20 7:00 9:40 5:00 8:10 Sat. &Sun. Mat. 1:30 Sat. & Sun. Mat 2:00 
ONETRUETHtNG R. DOLITTL 
\llf(YI. STI~LEP illJ EDDIE MURPHY B 
4: I 0 6:50 9:30 4:00 6:45 9:35 Sat. &Sun. Mat. I:20 Sat. &Sun. Mat I: I 0 
)A.\·IIE LEE CURTIS [ill 
4:30 7:10 9:10 Sat. &Sun. Mat. I:SO 
THE @ 
NEGOTIATOR 
4:40 8:00 Sat. &Sun. Mat. I:40 


ARMAGEDDON HLZO 
visit our website at www.kerasotes.com 

Friday, November 13, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
Daninllr. Grer.n in pregame the jump they want before the 
warm-ups against Visby­Big East sea..<>on commences. Swedr.n. "We're focusing a little more 
W. Hoops McGraw signs stellar 
Th<) starting five has also had on the big games, like UCLA and
continued from page 24 
its sharr. of injuries. but not as Duke," commented McMillen. 

trio of top-100 seniors 
llan1~y's pnrformaiH~I~ adds bad as those suffered by the "Now it's time to focus on UClA bnnch. Forward Kelley Siemon and our top non-conference
c!Ppth to an al rnady solid Irish Special to The Observer capturr.d thr. bronze mndal this lwnch. McCraw will count on the summer in Moscow, Hussia, is
startnd Wednesday but saw lim­scheduling." itnd play­
fn~sh playl~rs oil' tlw bnnch to oll'­Alicia Ratay. a 5-foot-11 rated nighth by Blun Star SI't tlw strong starting linnups guard from Lake Zurich. Ill.. Basketball.
ing time a f t e r
that NotrP Danw will 1~1wountnr Amanda Barksdalr.. a 6-foot-3 A threr.-ynar starter at Lake re<:OVI)r­
as tiH' snason gnts undnrway. forward from Frir.ndswood. Zurich, Hatay averagnd 22 UCLA will tip-off boasting an ing from a Tex.. and 5-foot-9 guard points. 7 rebounds and 4 stnals injury suf­
unmatrhabln onP-two punch Moniqur. llernandnz from Hio in lr.ading hr.r squad to a 30-3 
f'n I'IHI in
with aii-Anwrican r.andidatns Rancho. N.M. -all ranknd record during the 1997-1)S cam­
Mavlana Martin (forward) and tlw pn~­among the top 100 seniors by paign and into thn quartPrfinals poi;1t guard l·:ri~a Conwz. Sl\ilSOn. Blue Star Baskr.tball -havn of the statn championship. A l>nspitn
"Thny posP a lot of problnms signed national lr.tters of' intnnt first-team all-stato snl<~ction tlw suc­
for us lwr.ausP tlwy havn a vnry to join the Univ1~rsity of Notre and all-arna honoree in 199S, good rPn tor i11 aii-Anwrkan cnssns. Dame women's basketball she has bm~n nanwd to the all­Maylana Martin." said McC;raw. thn pro­beginning in the fall of 1999. Fox Vallny Conference first­"And tlwy haw good shoot1~rs on "On paper, this is probably team in r.ach of hr.r thrr.e
snason 
tlw wing who arn both good finishes our bost recruiting r.lass over," scholastic seasons while l<~adingtho
thrnP-point shootnrs." gavn said Notre Dame head coach her team to three eonsneutivc Tlw starting livn includes <~en­Irish littln MuiTet McGraw. "My staff did undefeatnd snasons in league tPr .lanan llt1bbard and forward to gain an outstanding job of identifying play. c o n f i ­
Mari1~ l'hilman, who round out these players as tlw three that Hatay ranks second all-timn 
clnnce
tlw finu· rnturning startnrs. would be best suited for our in scoring at Lakl) Zurkh with 
ovnr. Tlw
Noti·n Danw will bn counting program. WI' filled all of our more than 1,500 points. Shn led tnam's
on a bnnch that has aln~ady suf­needs and improved ourselvos her 1997 Illinois llustln AAU fprnd injurins to help tlw Irish focus has defensively. I'm extremoly squad to sixth-place finish at
a pull ofT tlwir 400th win in school bor.n on pleased with this class because the MU Nationals.the diiTi­
history against UClA. .Junior for­all three players are going to "Alicia's r.xpericnco playingcult regu­
ward .Julin llnndnrson did not come in here and contributr. in internationally this summer
lar Sl1a­
play in nithnr pr<~snason ganw a lot of different. They givo us cannot br. underestimatr.d," with a son• Achillns ankln whiln tremendous balance and depth said McGraw. "I think it hnlpnd
son, espr.­
frnshman Shnrisha llills missnd cially its both offensively and defensive-improve her overall gamr. asbnginning
making lwr first appnarancn !y. " well as lwlping her maturn as a aftPr sull'!•ring a r.onrussion. Tlw strntd1. to Hatay. a member of the U.S. player. She is a grnat shootr.r.givn tlwm
!'i-foot-S llills rollidnd with Youth World Games team which handles the ball C'Xtnmwly well and is a great passr.r. Alicia is going to remind a lot of p11opln of Both Morgan INotrn Dame's all-timo leading scorPr who graduatod in 19971 br.cause slw is such a purr. shootnr. I r.xpnct hnr to make a quick adjustnwnt to thn collngn game and come in and <~on­tributr. imnwdiately." Barksdalr. is ratnd 41st in the 
..
Blur. Star ratings. A two-ynar startnr at Cinar Brook, shn nnt­ted 10.3 points. grabbed 9 rnbounds and avnragnd S.5 blocked shots in her junior sna­son as she led hr.r tnam to a 2(>­(> mark and into thn regional quarterfinals, its farthest finish in school history. 
Namnd Clear Brook lntnrmediatn District MVP and a first-team all-district sdnction. she lnd thn llouston arna in bloeknd shots as a junior with 
273. Barksdalo has twke gar­nnrnd lnagun dnf'r.nsivn MVP honors and also was the IPagur.'s offnnsivL~ MVP as a sophomorn. 
Barksdaln. who has bnnn a mPmbnr of thn llouston lint Shots /\AU toam f'or tlw last thren years, led her squad to the nationals after it took llrst in the rr.gional toumanwnt. 
"Amanda is a grnat shot blockr.r," said McGraw. "Shr. runs thn lloor vnry and is a very strong athlntk and dr.f'ensive player. llnr shot-blocking pn~s­nnco. along with that of Huth 
Hiley..will 1~;-tp us trnmr.ndously on delnnsr.. 
llnrnandnz. who averagt~d 1fl.? points in her junior snason at Cibola. is ranked among thn top :~o guard nationally and is IJRth ovr.rall by Blun Star Basketball. A thrne-timn l'irst­tnam all-city selection, llnrnandr.z has garnPrnd f1rst­
lfHtm all-state honors P1U'.h of' the last two snasons. 
The leading scornr in the dty. -­shn ranks third all-limn heading into her llnal s<~ason at Cibula with 1J52 earonr points. llernandnz holds thn school rn<~ord for thrne-pointnrs in a gamr. (seven). In addition. she is second all-time with 454

• rebounds and third in career ­assists (197) and steals (90).

the answer 1 5 
"Monique's quir.knnss and 



skills as a point guard will help us out immediately," said McGraw. "Shr. is such a good 
athlete and versatile playPr.

Deloi tte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, 
Monique is a strong ballhandlnr

religion, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or veteran status. 
with r.xcellnnt passing skills. 
@1998 Deloitte & Touche LLP. 
She givns us great depth at the point guard position." 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 13, 1998 
• VOLLEYBAll 
Irish on the road for two to attempt Big East clinch 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The goal for the Notre Dame netters this weekend is to win a Big East regular season title as they close out conference play with matches at Pittsburgh and West Virginia. 
The Irish (12-11 overall. 8-1 Big East) are tied for the lead in the Big East with rivals Georgetown and Connecticut. They moved into a share of first place after handing the Georgetown Hoyas their first defeat in the conference last weekend. 
Both of Notre Dame's week­end foes are 4-5 in the Big East. Georgetown will face Seton Hall (3-61 and Hutgers (5-41 to finish its conference schedule. while Connecticut takes on Providence (5-4) and Boston College ((}-91. If any of the three conference leaders should end in a tie. they would each earn a share of the regular season title. 
The top six conference teams will qualify for the Big East tournament Nov. 21-22. the winner of which receives an automatic bi.d for the NCAA tournament. Seeding in the Big East tournament will be deter­mined by conference record. with ties determined by winning percentage in conference games. The top two teams will receive byes in the first round. 
"We definitely want to win both matches so that we can secure the first place seed in the [Big East] tournament and get a bye in the first round of the
.. 
tournament." said freshman outside hitter Marcie Bomhack. "Pittsburgh and West Virginia are going to be fighting for a spot in the Big East tournament, so we need to go out there and play at a really high level." 
The Irish face Pittsburgh tomorrow. a team which has had its shar11 of ups and downs this weekend. The Panthers won their first four matches. then lost five straight. won six in a row and had another four­game losing streak. They are currently coming off a loss to Providenefl. If the Panthers fail to qualify for thfl Big East tour­nament, it will be the first time they have failed to do so under sixth year coach Cindy Alvflar. as well as thfl first time in 17 years. 
"I would have anticipated that they would have a little bit bet­ter rflcord in the Big East." said Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown. "I think they have some very athletic players and pretty solid all-around skills." 
The Panthers are led in kills and attack attempts by sopho­more outside hitter Marcia Thiesen. Fellow outside hitter Melissa Alpers sets the pace for Pittsburgli. with 272 digs and 29 service aces, while middle blocker Jenna Birkel leads the team in hitting. 
Pittsburgh has not defeated the Irish since 1990. 
Notre Dame will face the West Virginia Mountaineers on Sunday, a team under the direc­tion of 1997 Big East Coach of the Year Veronica Hammersmith, in her 24th sea­son at the school. Although the Mountaineers return five of six starters from last season, their record stands at 11-14 on the year. 
"I think Notre Dame is a pret­ty big team, so the challenge for us will be hitting against the bigger blockers that they have," said Hammersmith. "I think we have to serve tough. They have physically a pretty intimidating team." 
West Virginia's top player is junior middle blocker Nikki Hardy, with 360 kills this sea­son. The Irish have won the past four meetings between the two teams. 
"They may be a little stronger in their backcourt defense, but I do think our hitting and block-


KRAMER TIMES 
Volume 1 Issue 1 NOVEMBER 1998 
*Domus Properties has two, five, six and 

nine bedroom student housing available *Student neighborhoods close to campus *Security systems provided *Well maintained homes *Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 199912000 school year 
......­
Contact Kramer {219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
Hockey 
Fri., Nov. 13th vs. Bowling Green Sat., Nov. 14th
-
vs. Michigan 7:00pm 
First 350 Students FREE 
ing are a little bit stronger and. hopefully, that will be enough to help us win that match," said Brown. 
Brown said that blocking and passing will again be key for the Irish. Notre Dame leads the Big East in blocking. and is also first in hitting in Big East matches. Senior Lindsay Treadwell and junior Mary Leffers are tops in blocking for the Irish. both at the middle blocker position. 
Other projected starters for the Irish are sophomore outside hitters Christi Girton and Jo Jameyson, setter Michelle Graham and junior opposite Emily Schiebout. 
Girton has betm a big factor in the recflnt success of the Irish. as she now leads the team in kills. Graham has taken the place of Denise Boylan the past few weeks, who is out with torn ligaments in her right elbow. 
Following this weekend's matches, the Irish have one reg­ular season match remaining. a 
non-conference  clash with  
Tolfldo  at  home  next  
Wednesday.  



Potential of Earning $145.00 per 1nonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own sooedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
ens Bas etball  omens Basketball  Women's Soccer NCAA Championship Second Round  
Fri., Nov. 13th 7:30pm vs. Miami (OH) Sun., Nov. 15th  Sat., Nov. 14th 1:00pm vs. UCLA FREE frisbees for  
2:00pm  first 500 fans in  Sun., Nov. 15th  
vs. Yale First 1000 fans receive Notre Dame Basketball  Gate 10 "America's Best Frisbee Dogs"  1:00pm Alumni Field  
Schedule Magnet  ••"  


l~riJay, Nm·L·Inhn U, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
------~~~~~~~~~~~~==========~~====~~==
NCAA 
continued from page 24 
alnmdy has ~(, goals on the sea­son. tying Cindy Daws' single season r11cord. Sho is fifth nationally in goals per game and sevnnth in points pm· game, whiln her tnarnmatn Makinen ranks onn spot behind her in points per ganw. Makirwn is also third in thn country with 0.8<J assists per game and co­captain .Inn (;nrbb is fourth, avnraging 0.8h assists per 
• MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish trio score Big East season accolades 
Sp<:cial to the Observer his career. 
Velho, who dosed out his Notre 
Fn~shman Shane Walton, who Dame earner as the school's all­led t.lw Irish in scoring with 10 time saves leader with 311 and goals and seven assisl'i in 1998, had ~6 shutouts during his four­was a unanimous sd11dion to the year earenr. played every minute Big East All-Hookie Team. The of every game for the Irish over annotrncem1mt came at tlw 17th tlw last 50 outings. lie registered annual Big l·:ast mnn's soccnr a 1.04 goals against average this hanqunt lwld in Piscataway, N.J.· season with a .808 save percent­
Walton. along with snnior goal­age, mading 84 saves. ki!I!JHH' (;n~g Vnllw and junior McNew, who is also making his dnf1mdnr Matt McNew worn also first appearance on an all-con­nanwd to the All-Big East Seeond fernnce team, was one of seven Tnam. Walton and forward players to start all 18 games. lie <;n•gory Strohman of Seton I tall scorPd a goal and dished oil' two w1~ro tho only froslrmnn chosen assists, and was instrumental in to llw sncond l!~am, while Chris helping the Irish post five <;bandi of' Connnrticut, who shutouts during the season. Panwd Big East Hookin of thn Notre Damn finished the sea­Year honors, was sdnct1~d to tho son with a (J-6-:~ mark in 1998 alf-<'.IIIJI'nn·lwn first-tmun. and earned a berth in the Big 
Vnlho. who was named the East Men's Soccer Championship Most Outstanding Player of the after finishing the r11gular season l <J(Jh llig East Mon's Soecnr with a 5-4-~ league record. The Championship al'tnr lnading the Irish worn eliminatod by St. Irish to their first-nvnr tourna­John's in quarterfinals ~-0 in a nwnt. !Town, narns all-confnr­ganw played in Jamaica, N.Y. nnt:l! honors !'or llw first timn in last Saturday. 
......,_................" ...........: .............................-·.·.. ,.......-.................--... 

game. Big East defensive player of the year, Grubb also anchors the ll'ish defense which is scw­enth in the country, allowing just 0.58 goals pm· game. Big East goalkeeper of the year LaKnysia Benne has bonn solid in goal all season and is ninth in the nation with a 0.63 goals against average. 
Notre Damn currently holds a 35-game winning streak against Big Ten opponents and a 43­game winning streak at Alumni Field. Michigan is sure to have its hands full when they take on th11 Irish this wenkend. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Part of the strong freshman class, forward Troy Murphy has already shown his offensive aggressiveness, especially in key moments. 
and Todd Palmer and senior
M Hoops
e forward Dennis Carroll. Notre Dame has little height on its continued from page 24 
roster, the ability of these play­
ers to "play big" will be crucial. out on the fast break. But the Miami of Ohio is a stern first­first thing we are going to do is game test for Notre Dame. The have to get the ball on the Hedhawks, coached by second­defensive rebounds," said year man Charlie Coles, are one MacLeod. of the best teams in the MAC 
Notre Dame has unveiled a Conference. Damon Frierson full-eourt pressure defense on who averaged 18.8 points last their made free-throws. season ' and Wally Szezerbiak Designed to take advantage of (24 ppg) are the top players on the Irish's guard depth, its a team looking to improve on nffnetivennss will be determined their 17-12 record of a year when it eounts for the first time ago. Szczerbiak has poppnd up tonight. Both point guards, on some preseason all-America sophomore Martin Ingelsby and teams and Frierson will test junior .Jimmy Dillon, also Graves head-to-head at the showed an ability to pressure two-spot. the opposing point guard in the "Miami is a great basketball preseason games. team. This is one of the most 
"One of the most improved difficult opening games since players on our team this year I've been here," said MacLeod. should be Jimmy," said The freshman will be tested MacLeod. "We [also] want immediately and the veterans Martin to be more productive will need to provide guidance offensively. lie needs to shoot for the Irish tonight. If Notre the ball more." Dame can force Miami into an 
With lngelsby and Dillon, up-tempo game they might just point guard is the most durable have enough scoring punch to position on the Irish roster. take control. For once, Notre 
Other players who will have Dame has some untapped tal­an effect ofT the bench for Notre ent. Tonight will be the first Dame will be sophomore for­step toward molding that talent ward Leviticus Williamson, into a top-notch basketball junior forwards Skylard Owens team. 

Cinema at the Snite 
Fri. & Sat. 7:30 and 9:45pm Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/-cothweb 

• SOFTBALL 
-
Miller signs high school stars 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame head softball eoach Liz Millnr announced the signings today of four high school soniors to national letters of intent. Shortstop Andria Bledsoe, infielder Andrea Loman, middle infielder Alexis Madrid and first baseman/catchnr Lisa Mattison will make up Notrn Dame's dass of ~003. 
"We're very excited about this class," Miller said. "I think it's one or the top recruiting elasses we've ever had." 
Bledsoe earned all-confer­ence honors a year ago whHe batting .406 for Highland High School in Gilbert, Ariz. She also plays with L'il Saints during the summer travnl season and earned the team's Golden Glove award for del'ense in 1997. 
"We recruited Andria for her defense as a midd In infielder," Miller said. "She has great hands and expnet her to sen time at shortstop next year." 
Loman was recently named a 1998 Amateur Softball Association (AS/\) Ali-Ameriean while playing for the Southern California Athletics. She also was a member of the 12-and-undcr ASA national championship team and the 14-and-under national runner-up. At Poly lligh School, Loman was an all-California IntPrscholastic Federation (CIF), all-county and all-league selection. 
"Andrea is a strong, physi­cal athlete," Miller savs. "She's still a raw talent, \~ho we beliflve is going to gPI better and better every year." 
Madrid, another 1998 ASA All-American, is a two-time first-team all-league selec­tion at shortstop for Temecula Valley lligh School. 
"Alexis will contribute a lot of speed to our lineup," Miller said. "We really need­ed to add that element (speed) to our lineup and shn's also a great middle infielder." 

·­
l Still Know What You Did R 2:05, 3:05, 4:25. 5:25 7:20, 7:55, 9:50. 10:15 
I'll Be Home For Christmas PG 1:45, 3:50, 5:55, 7:55, 10:05 
The Waterboy PG-13 1:55, 2:35, 4:05. 5:05, 7:00, 7:30, 9:15, 9:45 
The Wizard of Oz G 2:10. 4:35, 7:15,9:35 Apl Pupil R 2:25, 4:50, 7:20. 10:00 Bride of Chucky R 2:30, 5:00, 7:25. 9:50 
Practical Magic PG-13 2:00, 3:00, 4:30, 5:30, 7:10,7:55,9:40, 10:25 
Pleasantville PG-13 2:00, 4:45, 7:40, 10:20 
The Siege R 1 :50. 2:45, 4:20. 5:15, 7:05 8:00, 9:55, 10:30 
Whal Dreams May Come PG-13 2:50, 5:25, 7:50,10:30 
IODAYl TIMII ONLY FOUl DAY AOVA!KI TI(KIT SAUl 
~A!l~ICAP AtaSSISU tiiO PASSES • NO IUPIRIAVtl! 

__..................,.,_. ,-,.~.:.-...~~.·.~..·...·..:..~.·.·.~.-.. 



page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 13, 1998 
• CROSS CO!JNTRY

-
Harriers race in last 
finest 

chance for champs 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI Sports Writer 
The r:ross r:ountry season is drawing to a close and the District IV meet on Saturday in Terre Haute, Ind., will be the last opportunity the Notre Dame runners will have to impress the NCAA Championship selection r,ommittee. Terre Haute is the last guaranteed event on the schedule; only a peak perfor­mance by the Irish will allow their season to continue. 
On the women's side, the goal of finishing in the top three is of paramount importance. A top­three finish in one of the best districts in the country would solidify the invitation to the NCAA Championships Nov. 23 in Lawrenr:e, Kan. 
Head women's r:oar,h Tim Connelly knows that finishing fourth means and end to the season. 
"If we finish third, I really believe we have a realistic shot of getting an invitation. This team can do it. Thirteen spots is a lot of invitations to fill," Connelly said. 
The "13 spots" refers to the expanded field of teams the NCAA is inviting to the Championships. In previous years there were only six at­large bids available to non­automatic qualifiers, but this year that number has been inr,reased to 13. Only a first or second finish in the district 

-. meet earns an automatic invita­tion. 
The women have their sights set on third place because two of the top teams in the country will be on the course with them Saturday. Michigan is ranked third in the country while Wisconsin is eighth. Barring a serious off-day by the Wolverines or Badgers, they should battle for the District crown. 
Third place is up in the air and will be a battle between Bowling Green and the Irish. Notre Dame has far:ed Bowling Green twir:e this year, but the last rar:e the margin of victory was only 13 points. 
"We have steadily improved all year. Bowling Green really took it to us the first time but the next race we were right with them. We will have to rer,­ognize where their runners are in the r:ourse and just to out and try to beat them," Connelly explained. 
Expect the Irish to be led by JoAnna Deeter. Pushing for all­America status and already a member of the all-Big East 

-· 

r~nni& __CliniG 
Monday, November 16 
6:00 PM -7:30 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Analysis 
& 

Playing Situations Presented By: Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet ennis Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed 
Open to All Notre Dame Students 
team, Deeter has four wins in five starts. 
"JoAnna is in great shape. It is nice to know that you don't even have to r:ount her place because she is going to be in the top three," Connelly said. 
Former all-American Alison Klemmer will look to repeat her top-15 performance in the Districts from a year ago. Klemmer was slowed by an injury early in the season and has yet to run an excellent rar:e. Patti Rir,e will also be among the top Irish runners, she has finished second on the team in all of the races this season. 
"Now is not the time to hold anything back," Connelly said. "We have the ability to get the job done. We just need to go out and run like I know we can." 
The 21st-ranked men's team will also need a good showing at the Districts but their situation is not as serious as the women. The Irish have already beat some teams who will earn auto­matic bids to the NCAA Championship and just need a solid run on Saturday to make the trip to Kansas. 
"We can't enter into this light­ly," men's coach Joe Piane said. "If we continue to run like we are capable of, we should finish in the top four and earn an invi­tation." 
The top four will not be a cer­tainty for the Irish. Michigan (ranked seventh) and Michigan State (ranked 1Oth) are just a sampling of some of the top teams in District IV. The Irish are also coming off of a sub-par showing at the Big East Championships. 
The Irish will need the veter­an leadership of seniors Antonio Arce and Ryan Maxwell to run the kind of races they are capa­ble of. Both Arce and Maxwell had poor runs at the Big East finishing out of the top four on the team for the first time this season. Arce and Maxwell fin­ished lOth and 21st, respective­ly, at the District meet in 1997. 
The unr,haracteristir, showing of Maxwell and Arr,e at the Big East Championships allowed Tim Englehardt and Luke Watson to make their best runs of the season. Watson, a fresh­man, will be partidpating in his first distrir:t meet while Englehardt has steadily improved throughout the year. Ryan Shay, the top Irish runner, should continue his drive toward all-American status. 
"Our fourth and fifth place guys have really improved their times. We are right where we want to be," Piane said. 
,,._.... ~.,.,~ don't endwith ref­there·a1~e none ·.end with lib~lt<ilt dl~;cu:$$}<m" and the 
1-JU!H,l<:Ll . 

re•do" option to sides. Aopa:reiJltl·v··the announcers' 
. . . ·~a'Ve>h!;)en per­manently turned off because t})e:<mlfcomnientary you hear is the r(lceiver who just heatthe safety for a touch­down. letting the defender know how bad he made him look. 
There's plenty of seating for a crowd to come and cheer, bUt forsome rel).son, the crowd never seems to show up. That's okay, though. The pl<tyers don'tse.em to notice. 
There are some striking siinilarities betwe.en these · and the oneseveryone 
about, however. · whose won't let 
up,. no matter what 
·~·" "'""'" is,

"''~''''· •.,.,velegends that the ·talk about; the about, and mulate. credible 
should and whether Often {at 
section 
Are you looking for a 
job that gives you 
valuable 
design experience 
1Nhile offering 
reat a ? 
Apply for Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred. 

ball) by chance, you know you'll never forget them or see thesallie thing again. 
And if this doesn't get you, at least they both feature a football and the forward pass. That's something. 
Whatever the case may be, section football, contested by people who know this is their only remaining shot at foot­ball glory. is as important of a game as..,you will find on this campus. 
For every one of us who knows that we will never run out of that tunnel onto the field of dreams, this is the game that takes you back to the days of your youth when you played until it got too dark to see. The days when the ball would fly over a fence into some<me's pool and you had to go ring the doorbell and ask them to fish it out with the net. Or the time you guided your team, which was comprised of a quarterback and two receivers, down a 50­yard field across an imagi­nary goal line marked by a hat to score the winning touchdown in a game that meant the world to you even though no one but the guys on the field saw it. 
Sadly, these battles will always go unrecognized. But I guess that's what makes them so special. 
And so, for anyone who can identify with this, I offer this additional phrase to Adidas, one which will never make it offthis page but a lot of us can appreciate: "It's notjust football, it's section football." 

f<riday.Novembcr 13, 1998 
~-----~-~~----T~he Observer • TODAY LOOKINC TIIROlJGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN 

BILL AMEND

FOXTROT AHOY, I CAti'T 
LOOI(, I PRoM•SE TilE M1Mil£ T~E THIS C!LL 
I SIGNED A LoNG·TERM 
m MoBYTEL. AC.REEMENT PHoNE BACK.' WHY 
CoNTRACT. THAT'S HoW 

EXPIRES, I'LL SWITQi To NoT?! ONE oF liloSE LITILE F\.IP-ToP Jo881ES. 
I GoT Sv<:H A Goo!> DEAL. 
I 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
r-~==========~~f~============~ 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13, 1998 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Richard Mulligan, Whoopi Goldberg, Garry Marshall, Rober! Louis Stevenson 
Happy Birthday: Don't forget to smell the roses. You've been putting way too much pressure on yourself and irs time lo accept some rewards. Take a moment to review all that you've accomplished before you pul unreasonable demands on yourself again. If you allow others to lean on you because you are so self-sufficien~ you will begin to feel used instead of needed. Your numbers: 6, 12, 21, 30, 39,48 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Clear up legal documentation regarding investments. Make your social arrangements early in lhe day. Diffi· cuities with co-workers will prevail' if you aren't considerale. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Trav· el should be on your agenda. Visit friends or relatives thai you rarely see. Take time to deal with the con· cerns of children. It's a good day to make conservative investments. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your ideas pertaining to rearranging your domestic scene will be ingenious; however some, members residing under the same roof may complain. Gel an OK before you start anything. 00 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Be original in your correspondence, especially when it involves someone you love. Take care of the needs of !hose that depend on you. Pleasure trips will be successful. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Talk to superiors about your unique ideas concerning work efficiency. Follow through on your creative hobbies. Do not purchase unnecessary luxury items. Don't lend possessions to friends.OOO 
#'d' 
• OF INTEREST 
page 23 
EUGENIA LAST 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will be uncertain about your personal life. Your attitudes and opinions are changing and re-evaluation is neces· sary. Don't allow your mate lo pul added responsibilities on your plate. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can redecorate, renovate or make residen­tial moves with ease. Enlertaining in your home will also prove to be sue· cessful. Visit or talk to friends who have not been well. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Get involved in humanitarian groups. Your original ideas can earn you caSh. Don't overreacl to situations that aren't clear. Take a good look at your personal papers. 0000 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Don't be afraid to put your cash on the table. Lady luck is on your side and financial gains can be made. If you put your ideas inlo play, you'll finally be able to do your own thing. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): Make Ira vel arrangements thai will be conducive to business as well as plea· sure. Take your male and make an honest attempl to revilali7.e lhe rela­tionship. Open and hones! communi­cation will help solve the dilemmas you face. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your creative talent will prove to be lucrative. You are exceptional at pre­senting your ideas. Help regarding your goals is likely and profits will surely follow. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Romance will be yours if you attend organizational functions or dub action. You will be viewed as a sensi· tive, comrassionate individual and others wil ask you for advice. 000


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 "Turandor slave girl
1 Prop up 31 Moon-landing
&Goddess vehicle
p1ctured in Egyptian tombs 
32--de Triomphe

10 Fraud 33 "1--Grow IJp''
140ld autos 
("Peter Pan" 

15 Short letter 
song) 11 Patriot Nathan 
34 Heads of state 11 Feeling really get-together good 
38 "It can't bel" 20 Get-out·Of·jarl 
39 Be in session 

money 40Nothmg
21 Hors d'oeuvre spread 
41 Peas' holder 
42 Penmes: Abbr. 

22 Song for Aida 43 Creeks23 Chomped down 
47 Storm warnings you!" at sea 24 "--cost to 
25 Novelist Waugh 49 Clinton's 112 27 Batter's goal so Wrestler's place 29 Frigid 51 Site for a swing 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
START L OW~S L I C K 
P A N 0 R A M A P I E M A N 
OXIDIZER ~DVISE 
NCO.MAGMAS ENCE 
G U N S R A I L S E L A L 
E T SIE 0 S N L 0 D E -R


u E 
G 
AIG EIV 
E R 

ABfiE 
DIAH MAR­M D S Y E S S 0 P H S N U f T W E B E R L E A H DRNO IRENIC.ONE 
E A T S iliii!N 0 C H A R G E S T E I N S C R E A T I 0 N T E R R Y H A D P L A N S 
&UT THIS WOULD C>E A LIE . I'l"'\ NOT A. 
52 Rikk1 tikki·-­(Kiphrog mongoose) 
53 Capable of 
54 Uttle that's visible 
57 Poker call 
58 Mending site 
59 Louis XIV, 
1643-1715 60 Hawaii's state bird 61 Remove from office 62 Dunne of "I Remember Mama" 
DOWN 

1 Thick-trunked tropical tree 2 Italian soprano Scotto 3 Clarinetist Shaw and others 4 Refrigerate 
5 One of Kreskin's 
claims Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 

t-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute)~ 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crossWords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

O~n~r for Social Concerns -The spring edition of 
11,the poo~let, "Social. Concerns Courses with Experiential. Service-Learning, and Community-Based Learning" is now available for all interested students and·;_faculty at the Center for Social Concerns and at the offices of Campus Ministry. 
College of Arts and Letters -Dean Roche of the College of Arts and Letters cordially invites all Arts and L~tters students and prospective students to attend~an open forum on Wed., Nov. 18, at 7:30 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Questions will be answered and refreshments will be served. 
Wanted: Reporters and_photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
-
&Wee one 7--voce (almost in a whisper) 8 Spillane's "-­Jury" 
9 Visualize 10 Beach 11 Set of bells 12 Relieving 
13Ciub~ 
18 They expect the 
best 19 Undulating 24 "Um, excuse 
me" 
25 Like a three· dollar-bill 21 Cashew, e.g. 28 "Tickle me" doll 29Anger 32 Quantity: Abbr. 33 Sly trick 34 Cable channel 35 Support 
3&"~the 
season .. ." 37 Radial, e.g. J&Photo-­
(media events) 42 Musical sign 
43 Bygone Russian 
group 44 Electrical unit 45 Female 
attendant 46 Cheap cigar 48 Sierra -­49 Scottish Celts 
52 10 C-notes 53 Opposite of unter, in German 54 Can's composition 55 Notwithstanding that, briefly s& Biblical priest 



• 8-1 in the Big East 

• The ice hockey team 
and in a three-way tie 

plays its first of two 
for first-place, the vol­

weekend games tonight 
leyball team is on the 

in CCHA play in the 
road for its last two of 

Joyce Center. 
PORTS 

the season. 

p.20 p. 18 
page20------------------------------------------------THE Friday, November 13, 1998
0 BSERVER 
• WoMEN's SoccER 

Michigan first test in Irish road to championship 
By BRIAN KESSLER This will be the second meeting between the 
Assistant Sports Editor Irish and the Wolverines this season. The Irish 
came away 1-0 winners in the previous game. 

Last Sunday, it was the luck of the Irish. Or Heft beat Michigan goaltender Carissa Stewart 
perhaps it was the luck ofthe Finnish. for the game-winner and the Irish walked away 
Finland native Anne Makinen provided the only with a narrow victory, despite outshooting the 
scoring 81 minutes into the contest, 
Wolverines 23-5. 
as Noire Dame went on to beat "The first time we played Michigan, 
Connecticut and claim its fourth­we weren't playing very well," Heft 
consecutive Big East title. said. "Since then we've really come 
The Irish will now ride that together and solved a lot of the prob­
momentum into NCAA tournament lems we had early on." 
play. Notre Dame is no stranger to the 
"I think we're definitely playing NCAA's. This will be the sixth consecu­
our best soccer of the year," senior tive Irish NCAA appearance. In the pre­
co-captain Shannon Boxx said fol­vious five tournaments, the Irish have 
lowing the win over Connecticut. boasted a 14-4 record and have 
"We're peaking at just the right advanced to the semifinals each of the 
time. We still have more work to do, last four years. Notre Dame claimed its 
but that's perfect because we're first ever National Championship in 
going right into playoffs." 1995. 
"Our confidence level is probably the best its The Irish are ready to make another NCAA run 
been all year," junior Jenny Heft said. "We're this year. 
coming off the Big East where we played really "We're definitely taking it one game at a time," 
well." Heft said. "If you loose one game your out and we 
The fourth-seeded Irish had a bye in the first know that." 
round and will take on No. 18 Michigan this Notre Dame enters the Michigan game with the 
Sunday at 1 p.m. on Alumni Field. Michigan was nation's highest scoring offense, averaging 4.23 
The Observer/Jeff Shu 

a 4-2 winner over Xavier in Wednesday night's goals per game. Heft leads the way, as she Entering the Big East semifinal match against Syracuse last weekend, 
first round action. freshman Mia Sarkesian managed to get a shot off in the Irish win. 
see NCAA I page 21 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

• MEN'S BASKETBALL
Irish open season on Bruins 
Men's hoops hope 
No. 17 Irish take to the court with matchup against No. 6 UCLA 
By ANTHONY BIANCO early Notre Dame schedule that are all ranked in 
Miami gives ans~ers 
Assistant Sports Editor the top 25. Next Saturday, the Irish play No. 4 Duke, then No. 25 Illinois three days later. The 
AlAN WASIELEWSKI the basket when points are Coach Muffet McGraw's squad will start this sea­advantage for the Irish is that they will play all 
Sports Writer ·needed. son right where it left off last year --squaring oiT three of these games at the Joyce Center. 
At 6-foot-5, Graves gives the against some of the nation's best. The last meeting between these two teams was 
Notre Dame's basketball Irish a tall defensive presence Coming off of its second consecutive appearance one neither team will soon forget. Meeting in Los 
team has many questions to at guard and has the green in the NCAA Sweet 16 last year, the Irish will begin Angeles, Calif., the squads played to double over­
answer when they face Miami light to take off down the this season with their highest ever rankings, 17th time before the Irish came away with a two-point 
of Ohio tonight in the Joyce court on all defensive by the Associated Press and 19th by USA 93-91 victory. The extra time allowed Irish guard 
Center. rebounds. 6-foot-6 Swanagan Today/ESPN. They will begin their journey this Sheila McMillen to amass her highest-ever point 
Will the freshmen be over­will need to develop into the Saturday against the team that the Irish faced in total in a single game with 29 points. The loss set 
whelmed in their first colle­force that provides the defen­

giate start? Will Phil
their first ever trip to the NCAA tournament in the Bruins back as they opened their season at 0­
Hickey be able to

1992, UCLA. 3. 
avoid foul trouble

The Bruins are just the first of four teams on the "I know it went down to the wire last year, into 
with the lar,k of size
double overtime," commented McMillen. 

on the bench? Will
"''m sure they're going to come here look­

the new up-tempo
ing for some revenge. It'll be a tough game 

style work against
the whole way through. It's not going to be 
quality opponents?
anything like the exhibition games !we 

Who will take over
started this season out with!." 

-
the scoring load that
McMillen and the rest of the team has 

Pat Garrity carried
gone from dogging the opposition to under­

for the past four
dog as the season opens after their excel­
years?
lent showing in two exhibition games. 

sive rebounds on the Irish "bust-outs". 
The freshmen are not the only talent on the Irish roster. Seniors Phil Hickey and Antoni Wvche provide veteran iead­ership on a team that will boast more depth than in recent years. 
"I think instead of one player doing the 


How these questions are bulk of the scoring, we will
Against Visby-Sweden, it was again 

answered will determine have different players lead us
McMillen who got the job done. Her game­

whether Notre Dame can sur­throughout the course of the
high 27 points came with nine three-point­

prise anyone in the Big East season," explained MacLeod.
ers as Notre Dame routed the visitors 111­

this year. Troy Murphy, David "My hope is that we are going
82. Ruth Riley and Danielle Green also 

Graves and Harold Swanagan to have a balanced attack
returned to the hardwood with strong play, 

-
represent the best crop of where two or three different
netting double figures in points, 19 and 17, 

young players to enter the people have the ability to
respectively, and grabbing 13 rebounds 

program since Elmer Bennett, make a shot at the end of the
apiece. Niele Ivey registered a double-dou­
ble of her own, adding 18 points and 

Daimon Sweet and LaPhonso game, instead of one." 
Ellis in 1988-89. The ability of Hickey, along with sopho­
assisting on 15 others. 

head coach John MacLeod to more Hans Rasmussen, will
Freshman Ericka Haney came off the 

get the freshman playing early draw the duty of kick-starting
bench in both preseason contests to give 

and playing well will deter­the Irish fast break. One of the
the squad its newest threat. She scored 11 

mine where the basketball most glaring shortcomings of
in her first collegiate appearance against 

program is headed in the next the Irish roster is the lack of
the Swedish team before her game explod­

few years. big players. Hickey,
ed a week later. In last Wednesday's 88-37 

Murphy, listed at 6-foot-9, Hasmussen and Murphy are
stoning of Tallinn Kayaba Estonia, she 

will need to develop quickly the only players above 6-foot­
totaled 30 minutes on the court despite 
coming off of the bench to led the team 

for the Big East season but 8 on the roster. 
has proved in the preseason "If we are going to be good,
with 19. But it was her drive off the boards 
that really lifted some heads as the 6-foot-1 

games that he will be a terror we are going to have to bust
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

on the offensive glass. Murphy 
Captain Sheila McMillen will lead the Irish in their opener forward totaled 13. 
also has the ability to get to seeM. HOOPS I page 21
Saturday in what appears to be a very promising season. 
see W. HOOPS I page 19 
• at Navy vs. Bowling Green Tomorrow, 3:30p.m. ~ Today, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 

~.. ~ Cross country at District IV Championships (Terre Haute) 
ATA 
First Round NCAA 

at Pittsburgh Tomorrow, 10:30 a.m.
Tournament vs. Michigan ~ Saturday, 1 p.m. 

~ Sunday, 1 p.m. •
GLANCE 


NSIDER 
O THE 

Friday, November 13, 1998 --------------BSERVER 





TH£ NATION 
.PJ\GI~ 1 


Friday, November 13, 1998

page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
BUILDING A CHAMPION 

ROAD TO THE '88 CHAMPIONSHIP 
Ismail rockets himself into national recognition 

OPen for Lunch FridaY~ SaturdaY~ SundaY 
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Discover • only valid @ above location • across from Linebacker • exp. Nov. 31, 1998 
Freshman uses speed and agility to become kick-return specialist 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports Editor 
Stepping on to a new campus, seeing all kinds of fresh faces and being on your own for the first time is overwhelming for any fresh­man. 
Imagine adding on top of it the pressure of coming to play for one of the top programs in the nation and you will find yourself in the position which Rocket Ismail did back in 1988. 
Rather than retract into the shadows, Ismail rose to the occasion. 
While a majority of Ismail's fellow freshmen teammates found themselves on the practice squad, Ismail found himself thrust into game­play immediately. 
Ismail was not unfamiliar with the spotlight which found him so quickly. He was· a high school standout. 
In fact, he got his notorious nickname, "Rocket," back in eighth grade when he ran track. Prior to the season, he clocked a 4.28 average on two runs on the first day of prac­tice. 
"My coach said I came out of the blocks like a rocket," Ismail recalled. 
Speed definitely would be a word to describe his talents. Ismail's collegiate career thrived on speed. He used his power to accelerate past opposing team's coverage. 
Coming into Notre Dame, Ismail was touted as a standout tailback in high school. He accounted for over 7,300 yards and 74 touch­downs in just 26 games at Meyers High School. 
The Wilkes-Barre native reluctantly took the spot at split end. While he wanted to make a definite impact, Ismail feared the onslaught of punishment that lay ahead. 
"I thought, 'Oh no, not receiver,"' Ismail said. 
Just past midpoint in the season, it became evident to Holtz and Co. that Ismail had let almost all his fears slip away. He had caught nine passes for 198 ~ards. Not to mention he snagged a 58-yard bomb from Tony Rice that cued the go-ahead touchdown in the Miami win. 
His explosive speed truly became evident in Notre Dame's trouncing of Rice, 54-11. Ismail made Rice's defense look flat and lifeless. He ran back two kickoffs for touchdowns which solidified him as kick return threat. 
"We work so hard at it in practice," Ismail said about his special teams work. "The coaches always tell us to play like we practice. We take special teams as another offensive play. It's one of the biggest plays in college football." 
The two big returns against Rice of 83 and 87 yards catapulted Ismail to the top of the nation in kickoff returns. He averaged around 3 7 yards per return, leading his nearest com­petition by six. 
Not to mention his star efforts on the blocked field-goal attempt ip the second game of the season against the Michigan State Spartans. 
Switching from tailback to receiver provided Ismail with a challenge that he gladly accept­ed. 
"There are a lot of little things that I knew nothing about when I was a running back," Ismail said. "It's like starting over again." 
One thing was for sure for Notre Dame, and that was when it acquired its new star split end, it knew it wouldn't be starting over on offense for a long time. 
Ismail anchored the Notre Dame special teams for four years. He used his speed and power to make his mark his freshman year and become one college football's biggest playmakers. 




Friday, November 13, 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM 
THE CAPITAL
IRISH EXCHANGE 
ANNAPOLIS DAILY NEWSPAPER 

By JACK GROSS ers think the same way, here in Annapolis. We'll have Spom Editor of The Capital although they admit they more of a pro Navy erowd with 
would like to be on the team several thousand of our fans 
Notro Damn at Navy. Sort of. that finally beats Notre Dame. being there. 
It's rnally Notre Damn vs. That would be a noteworthy "And," Gainey added, "We'll Navy at Jack Kent Cooke aehievPnwnt this season since follow the same routine as we Stadium. and that is as strange the Mids go into the game at 3-do for all of our home games. a sotting to tlw Midshipmen as 5. while Notrn Dame is 7-1 and We'll have the same praetiee to tlw Fighting Irish. ranked No. 12 in the nation. sehedule. We'll stay at the 
Still. this game will be as But, aeeording to veteran same hotel we do the night much of a honw game as Navy offensive lineman J.D. Gainey, before our home games." Pvnr gnts against Notn~ Dame. having this game bning so Gainey said yesterday that 
The game will kick off at 3:36 rnueh like a home game could the players don't talk about the 
p.m. Saturday at the Haljon be a l'aetor in helping tho losing streak to Notro Dame facility in Pri rH:e C:eorge 's Midshipmen. -and they try not to think about County. As many as 78,()00 "For one thing, this is a huge it. pPopln will hn in tho stands and game for us beeause there is so "lt is something that is in the millions mme will bn watching rnueh riding on it. A win would backs of our minds. Beating on national tnllwision. make it possible for us to have Notre Dame, ending the streak, 
EVPry Navy coach has always a winning season and that's is definitely a goal. although it looked forward to the gamn something the members of this isn't one that we put down against Notre Dame, but the senior elass really want," before our season starts," the Mids havn gorw through seven Gainny explained. rnalistie Gainey said. head coaches without beating "We don't want it to seem One of the leaders of this Notre Dame. like we were just riding on the senior dass, Gainey said it's 
YI)Storday, Charlie eoat tails or the two dasses most important to convince the Weatlwrbin joined the last six before us, we want to follow younger players on the team, coaches in saying that he isn't them with our own winning and there is an unusually large concerned with Navy's losing season," he said. "I also think number of them, that this is streak to Notre Dame, which this will be a fun game to play. just another football game. has strntdwd to 34 games. It will let us know just how "If we ean win this game it 
"All I know is that we haven't good we really are," Gainey will be a giant step in getting beatnn Notre Dame since I've said. Navy baek where it belongs in been here. The stmak before The burly offensive guard is regard to respect," Gainey that moans nothing to me," looking forward to this game said. "I think we've taken the Wnathnrbie said. "We didn't more than he has to the past first steps by having the back­havn anything to do with the Notre Dame games in whieh he to-baek winning seasons. gamns before W{) got here." has played. Beating Notre Dame would 
For the most part, the play-His reasoning is sound. give a big lift in that area. "What should help us "Having seen the problems in this game is that it Notre Dame has had the last
IRISH INSIDER 
will be so much like a two weeks with Army and
EDITOR: KATHlEEN LOPEZ 

real home game for us. Boston College gives us some After the past two weeks, we more aggravating than frus­
ASSOCIATE I'DITORS: JOEY CAVATO, ALLISON 
We won't have to go to added confidence. It lets us feel that way a little bit more. trating," Gainny said. 
KRILLA 

Ireland or the know that Notre Dame is beat­"Coming as dose as we did "It was probably tho best
ASSISTANT EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, 
Meadowlands," he able," he said. "Because of how last year, despite the mistakes game I have played in and wn
BILL HART 

explained. close we eame to beating them we made, the inadvertent eamn so clos1~ to winning. I
DESIGN: MARK DEBOY 

"The brigade will be last year, we have felt we had a whistles and some of the ealls think we ean finally do it this
GRAI'fiiCS: PETE CILELLA 

there just like they are good ehance to win this year. that didn;t go our way was year."
COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAILY 


RECORD: 7-1 ~RECORD: 3-5 
A.P. RANKING: J2TH ~ A.P. RANKING: UNRANKED
THE EDGE 



Quarterbacks -Even 
Linebaci<ers:=even 
It'll be exciting to see Jackson continue to develop as he continues 
Bobbie Howard provides the rock upon which the defense to impress and is starting to make more plays with his arm. If he is built. Maybe "The Stand" will give the defense some can develop more consistency he'll make the Irish offense practically momentum. Grant Irons should be back and the 
unstoppable when it's on. You know that Navy's quarterback will hurt combination with Lamont Bryant could produce results. 
' with his legs, but Brian Broadwater can hurt you with his arm too. He Navy only uses two middle linebackers, Matt Daigneault has five touchdowns and completes over 50 percent of his passes. and Brad Chatlos. Both have experience and will have their He also led come from behind losses in his first two starts against hands full in the middle. Colgate and Boston College and came up short against Rutgers. 
Running Backs -NO Secondary.::, ND 
Autry Denson will be Notre Dame's all-time leading rusher probably 
Even though the Irish had asetback last week in giving up by half time. He needs just 47 yards and he'll get the nod over the the big plays to the Eagles, Navy has those types of games fullback tandem of lrv Dingle and Matt Hardin who are strong every game. Navy should probably call in help from the Air averaging over 5.4 yards acarry. It would be nice to see the Irish get Force to slow other team's aerial assaults, they give up 298 the fullbacks back into the action carrying the ball. yards agame. Tony Driver is getting more comfortable. 
There's depth at the safety slot with Deke Cooper, A'Jani Sanders and Benny Guilbeaux. The return of Deveron Harper will help Notre Dame's cause. 
Special TEiam•~~-No 
....,,m,;··· ·.:·:Y.~<·.·. 

Malcolm Johnson should be able to abuse the smallish Navy Tony Driver and the return game took astep in the right cornerbacks and could have another big day. Raki Nelson should also direction in Chestnut Hill and should continue to get better. be more active now that he is fully healthy. Ryan Read has given Jim Sanson continues to connect. On the other side, place­Broadwater aweapon in the passing game. They don't go to him often kicker Tom Vanderhost has only connected on 3-of-7 from but when they do it's usually for a big gainer, 24 yards acatch. 20-39 yards out. 
Offensive Line -Even 

The Navy football team has look pretty comfortable on land. They Charlie Weatherbie is a bright young coach, and there's no lead the nation in rushing with 297 yards acontest. That has alot to doubt his team will be ready to play. He's had as much do with wishbone but it also has a lot to do with the boys up-front. success as any Navy coach as all of his teams have out­Rosenthal, Wisne and Co. have yet to put in agame when they've gained the Irish 411-332 and two of his squads had dominated for 60 minutes. second-half leads. Bob Davie has always had his focus on 
the next game and has instilled that in his players. 
Defensive Line • NO 

Notre Dame's lack of adominate and consistent player keeps things 
The Irish have been through quite a lot and know to not even. Navy ranks 86th against the run but has afeisty competitor in take anything for granted, and have too much at stake with Jason Snider. At 6-foot-2 and 259 pounds he isn't the most imposing a7-1 record. They know how Navy will play, and they find a force but he has six tackles for aloss, has broken up two passes, and way to win. If the offense can put in aconsistent, complete even has an interception. But Navy gets geared up for the Irish. In game, it could mean a long day for the Midshipmen. two of Charlie Weatherbie's three seasons, Navy has held Notre Dame's ground attack to less than 166 yards rushing. 



Overall· NO 



~-,__ ~-------------~----­
page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 13, 1998 
The Observer/John Daily 

Senior Jerry Wisne ranks second in career starts among the offensive linemen, behind Mike Rosenthal. 
By ALLISON KRILLA "Jerry Wisne, without a said. "It's more aggressive, and Associate Spons Editor doubt, [is] one of the most instinctive." impressive linemen I've ever But in the fall of 1995, just 
Not every person possesses been around," Davie said. "[He] three weeks into Wisne's fresh­the athletic talent to be a top­has nine percent body fat. The man year, the coaching staff notch football player. And not average body fat in the NFL, I decided to move Wisne to the every person exhibits the faith think, for offensive linemen is offensive line. and determination to live his over 20 [percent]. Almost immediately after dreams. "He benches 225 pounds 42 Wisne's position change, veter­
But Irish senior offensive line­times, which I think the NFL an left guard Jeremy Akers suf­man Jerry Wisne has it all [Combine] record might have fered a knee injury that rolled into one. been 38 or 39. The guy is unbe­appeared to create an opening 
Wisne, a mammoth 6-foot-7, lievable," Davie continued. for the rookie offensive line­320 pound quick guard solidi­"He's still young." man. However, Wisne logged fies one of the largest and most But the oldest son of former only four minutes that season talented offensive lines in the Notre Dame offensive lineman during a 41-0 pounding of nation. Seniors Mike Rosenthal Gerry Wisne, a member of the Vanderbilt. and Tim Ridder, junior John 1966 national championship "It was different," said Wisne Merandi and fifth-year player team, didn't always play a star­of the position change. Luke Petitgout join Wisne in ring role. "Offensive line requires a more protecting Irish quarterback As a senior at Jenks High cerebral attitude. You have to Jarious Jackson and paving the School in Tulsa, Okla., Wisne really know the game and play way for tailback Autry Denson, earned letters as a three-year smart. It's been real challenging who is on the verge of becoming starter, splitting time between for me." Notre Dame's all-time leading defensive tackle, offensive tack­The following year Wisne pre­rusher. le and even tight end. But it was pared to be a major contributor 
"I think we're the best offen­on defense where Wisne's talent for the Irish, but managed to sive line in the nation," said shone brightest. He finished his play in only nine games, seeing Wisne. "And we all believe high school career with 110 solo less than 100 minutes of action. that." tackles, 46 tackles for losses, 25 "My sophomore season was 
Next to the veteran Rosenthal, sacks and 15 blocked passes. the most difficult," Wisne said. a regular on the line for three USA Today honored the "Coach Holtz was about to leave seasons, Wisne's 24 career Oklahoma resident with first­and there was conflict on the starts rank second among all team prep all-America acco­coaching staff, which I'm sure current offensive linemen. But lades as a defensive lineman. happens at any school when a Wisne's numbers go beyond just Bluechip Illustrated ranked change like that happens." the time he's logged on the field. Wisne sixth nationally among Wisne's sophomore season 
Before last week's Boston defensive lineman, while turned out to be his darkest College contest, head coach Bob Parade, SuperPrep and Prep hour, as the young lineman seri­Davie revealed a few behind­Football Report placed him on a ously considered forsaking his the-scenes statistics that put variety of all-America teams. dreams and leaving the Wisne's performance off the "In high school, I established University. field into perspective. a defensive mentality," Wisne And it was only the biggest influence on Wisne's life that Independence Bowl, and could convince him to remain at ranked fourth on the offense in Notre Dame. total playing time. Wisne also 
"God got me through that," made 52 regular-season special Wisne said. "I was so close to team appearances. leaving, and I just prayed that if "[Jerry] brings a quiet confi­God wanted me to stay, every­dence to the team," said Andy. thin.~ would somehow work "He's a leader, but he doesn't out. have to say much. Plus, he's a 
Wisne stayed, and his family good blocker." followed. Jerry's younger broth­But if there could be consid­er Andy received a football ered a breakout year for the scholarship to play for the Irish offensive line, this is it. the following year, and their In 1998, the men in the parents packed up the family trenches have been crushing home in Oklahoma and moved more than their share of oppos­to South Bend. ing defenses, and represent a 
"I was shocked," said Wisne major reason the Irish sport a about his family's decision to 7-1 record. While the Notre relocate. "I guess it's weird Dame defense has produced 13 sometimes, almost like high sacks for 81 lost yards, the school. Most people think you offensive line has allowed only go to college to get away from four sacks for a measly 19 your parents. But it's nice, like yards. on Sundays when we'll go over "This season I just wanted and eat dinner together. It's a [the offensive line] to gel," pretty unique situation for explained Wisne. "As Coach someone playing college foot­Colletto says, we're kinda like ball." the piping on this team. We're 
"[Jerry and I] are pretty essential to the offense, but close," said Andy Wisne. "His we're not the guys in the lime­being here was a pretty big fac­light. We don't get the attention tor in my decision [to attend unless something goes wrong." Notre Dame]." For now, Wisne's living a 
It was during Wisne's junior dream that began when he was year, under rookie head coach a seventh-grader watching Davie, that he fmally solidified a Notre Dame's 31-30 victory starting role on the offensive over Miami. line. He finished 1997 as one of And God is right there with five offensive players to start all him. 13 games, including the 
~ifflm 

Friday, November 13, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
IN THE 
SPOTLIGHT 

AUTRY DENSON AND HIS BLOCKERS 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu  The Observer/Jeff Hsu  
Autry Denson looks to set a new Notre Dame  Mike Rosenthal and the offensive line make  
2ND  record in career rushing tomorrow.  Denson's achievements possible.  3RD  
SEASON AT NOTRE DAME  Senior tailback Autry Denson will likely finish the chase to pass Notre Dame's all­time. leading rusher Allen Pinkett. The magic number for Denson is 4 7 to  fullbacks will have to be on top of their game. Notre Dame is at its best when it only has to go to the air a couple of times a  SEASON AT NAVY  
break Pinkett's previous mark with 4,131  half.  
Bob Davie  yards. Denson  currently  ranks  43rd  in  the  Although Jackson capable, as Denson  has proven he is goes so does the  Weatherbie  
CAREER RECORD 14-7 AT NOTRE DAME 14-7 AGAINST NAVY 1-0  NCAA career rushing category. He needs just 306 yards to crack into the top 25. Navy, just like every other team on the  offense. Navy usually gives on of its best defen­sive efforts of the season against the Irish,  CAREER RECORD 19-12 AGAINST NOTRE DAME 0-2  
ROSTER  Irish schedule will make Denson earn every yard. They will likely pack the box with Midshipmen and the offensive line and  sometimes playing beyond their abilities and size. It'll be a historic game, but it won't mean much to Denson if his team loses.  ROSTER  
No.  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  Name  Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
I 2 3  Deke Cooper Benny Guilbt•aux Arnaz Battle Kory Minor A'Jani Sam.il'rs  FS SS QB OLD FS  6-3 6-2 6-1 b-1 5-11  221 215 195 245 191  JR SR FR SR SR  Gary Lam• Ryan Read Enrico Hunter Rico Suave John Vereen  ss WR CB MS SB  5-11 5-11 5-10 6-2 5-10  200 180 193 202 2110  )R so SH SM )R  
Malcolm Johnson  SE  6-5  215  SR  Steve Holley  Qll  6-tl  1Y4  )R  
y 10 II 12 I) 14  J.uious f,lckson Eric Chappl'll Anthony Brannan R.1ki Nelson Dt.•vt.•ron llarpl'r Jay Johnson Tony Fisher jimmy Friday David Givt·ns  QB QB OLB FL CR SE RB lLB WR  64) 6-4 5-11 5-11 5-11 6-0 6-1 6-2 b-0  220 225 203 178 187 187 202 236 214  SR )R JR )R JR JR FR SR FR  ·...... ,,  10 11 13 14 15  Bas Williams Cecil Fletcher jiwan Mack John Chavous Brian Kennedy Travis Williams Brian Bougcois Brian Broadwater Tim Shubzda  CB CB DB DB QB WR CB QB K  5-10 5-11 5-10 5-10 5-11 6-3 5-9 6-0 6-1  174 190 190 195 188 202 196 187 198  FR SR )R JR SR )R so so JR  
15 16 17 18 !Y 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 28 29  Clifford )t•rlerson DB John Shin~ll'r TE lluntt•r Smith P joey Ct•tht•r,lll SE Jim Sanson K l'Mimt Pit•rn•-Antoinc L.B f,win Jluntl'r WR l••Y Vkkl!f> TU Autry Ot'nson TB Ty Goode CB Tony Driver FS 1"-"' l.Jtayt•tt<• SS Bobbit• llowMd ILB Don,>ld Dykt•s DB Mike Crady FS Justin Smith CB  5-9 6-1 6-2 5-7 5-9 6-2 5-11 MJ 5-10 5-11 6-2 5-10 5-10 5-10 5-11 b-2  165 2SO 218 172 189 240 172 215 202 192 214 198 232 186 200 188  FR SR SR so )R FR FR )R SR SR so )R SR FR )R so  FUL~33-Spencer 45-Goodspaed RIGHT 70-Ridder 69-Gandy RIGHT TACKLE 79-Rosenthal 76-Teasdale  16 17 18 19 20 21 22 22 23 24 25 26 28 29 29 31  Chris Oliver Mark Mill Adam Crccion jon Limbert jason Grant Rick Conlin Eric lloma Chuck Westcrhousl~ Scott Jonca Jamie Doffl'rmyrc Manny Metcalf Chris Lcporl' Davedc Alexander Mike Wiedl Pat Mitch Tray Calisch  DB WR FS FB CB DB CB RB WR FS SB FS CB CB FKSP r  5-10 6-0 6-0 5-11 5-10 5-11 5-8 6-1 6-1 6-1 6-0 6-0 5-9 5-9 6-3 5-11  202 IHO 199 202 192 IN! 180 195 !YO INS 198 1% 169 169 2118 194  )R SR SR SR so SR I'R SR JR )R SR so so so SL )R  
311 31  Rocky Boiman Erirllimcm  DB CB  6-3 5-11  222 179  FR SR  32 33  Brad Chatlns jason Wolf  l.ll SB  6-0 6-0  214 211  SR SR  
32  H•rranct.• Howard  RB  6-1  181  RB  33  Teen Wolf  MJF  5-4  120  so  
32  Justin Mt•ko  SS  5-11  209  SR  34  Robert Burns  QB  6-2  195  FR  
33 33  j.lmit.· Spenct.•r Phil Sicw~o  FB CB  6-1 5-11  245 188  SR SR  34 35  Montgomery Burns lrv Dingle  Rich FB  5-6 5-11  87 218  Sl SR  
34 35  Ronnit.· Nkks David Millt.•r  ILB K-P  6-1 5-11  234 177  )R FR  36 37  Lucas Wells Zach Otto  DB DB  5-7 5-10  186 203  JR so  
35  Ja•dnt Vukl'lich  FB  6-0  224  so  38  Matt llardcn  fB  5-11  220  51{  
36 36 37  Tom Lopit•nski 11m Lynch Ron lsrcic..•l  FB CB CB  6-2 5-9 6-0  240 177 198  FR SR so  39 40 41  Terrence Coloman Mike Wilkins Ore Brittingham  CB DB SB  6-1 5-10 5-10  198 192 170  FR SR FR  
37  Kt•vin Rin·  SS  6-0  212  SR  42  Ra.shad Jones  ws  6-3  2110  so  
38  BnKk Williams  CU  5-10  189  so  43  Rahecm Lambert  Fll  5-10  190  FR  
39 39 40 411 41 42 43  Anthony Denmdn OLB Chris Leek SS J.tson Murray FB Brt.•nd.m F.trrPII ILB Jm• Fl'rrer OLB Antwoim• Wt•llington NG llu~h llolmes lLB  6-1 o-10 6-1 5-10 6-2 6-0 6-1  231 195 254 220 231 261 212  so JR so )R )R )R so  44 45 46 47 48 49 so  Ross Drenning Marion Terrell Isaac Roland Matt Daigneault Mike McGee Geno Fountain Marcus Jackson  I.B SB DB LB LB LB CB  6-2 5-H 5-9 6-1 6-0 6-0 5-10  231 IRS 187 225 222 212 175  SR FR so JR so )R Fll  
44  Grant Irons  OLB  6-5  256  so  51  Matt Williams  LB  6-1  233  SH  
45 4h 46 47  Joey Ctx>dspeed Kevin Dansby Bt•nj.lmin Robinson Mikt• McNair  FB OLB TE FB  6-0 6-1 6-2 6-0  241 228 241 221  JR so SR FR  52 52 53 54  Shaka Martin Chaka Khan Matt Brooks Jamie Mcilvain  Lll FS CB LB  6-2 5-10 6-0 6-1  205 155 167 231  FR SR FR JR  
48 49 o;o ol 53 54 o;s 58  John,tthan llt.•bl'rt jol' Thomas IJ.wid Paynt• Tyrt•o H.1rrison l..amont Bryant l.ukl' Pt•titgout JimJones Brcnd.m O'Connor  SE ILB OC LB DE OT OG OG  5-11 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-3 6-6 6-3 6-2  202 227 287 238 258 · 300 295 292  )R SR SR FR SR SR )R JR  55 56 56 57 58 59 60 61  Daryl Hill DuccCromer TresQuatn1 justin Hess Ryan Hamilton justin jordan Kostas Hatzidakis Alex Murray  LB CB DB LB LB LB OT DB  6-0 5-10 6-3 6-0 6-2 6-1 6-2 6-4  225 180 144 240 217 2!3 270 252  so FR FR so FR so )R )R  
62 6.1 M  Casey llobin Mik<• Tribt• John ML•randi  OT 11.8 C  6-6 5-10 6-3  300 220 292  so JR JR  62 63 M  Terrence Anderson Phillip Yeh JliStin Craml'r  c OL ss  5-11 6-3 6-2  265 281 190  )R so FR  
66  JW Jurd.m  C  6-0  289  so  65  Doug Martin  DS  6-1  240  JR  
67 68 69 711 71 72 73 74 76 77  john Wa,;ner Matt Bn•nn.m Mikt• Gandy lim Ridder Jl'rry Wisnl' Ryan Scarola )l>ff lloehl RobMowl fohn Tt.•asJall• Brad Willioms  OT OT OG OG OG OL OL C OT DE  6-7 6-7 6-4 6-7 6-7 6-4 6-4 6-5 6-5 6-5  300 295 2% 298 298 310 287 295 295 286  SR JR )R SR SR FR FR )R so JR  ·~ 4-Vereen 41-Brittingham  66 67 68 69 70 71 72 73 74 75  David Hamilton Ed Hinman Palrick Singll'ton J.D. Gainey Scott Swantncr Jarrett Davies Doug Howard Ron Winchester Chad Adams Derek Peterson  DS OG c OG ex; OT OT 01. 01. OG  6-1 6-1 6-1 6-2 6-5 6-4 6-2 6-2 6-2 6-6  198 267 263 290 2811 277 257 255 240 293  so SR )R SR so )R JR so so SR  
78 79  jord.m Blad, Mikl' Rost•nthal  OL OT  6-5 6-7  310 300  FR SR  76 77  Mikt:.• Galdieri Blane Kind lor  l.B OT  6-0 6-1  195 287  FR SR  
81 83 84 85  Lewis D.1wsun Patrick Rt•ynolds ( ;pr,\ld Mor~il.n Antwon Jonl~s  I'L WR TE NG  6-0 5-11 6-3 6-3  185 179 263 280  )R FR FR SR  78 79 79 80  Tom Vanderhorst Hoot Stahl Whoot Tht•rcilis Damon Myers  K OT I'Y WR  6-0 6-6 6-5 6-4  IRS 270 222 215  SR so SR SR  
85  M.uk Rule  WR  6-2  218  SR  81  Pat Hainl'S  FB  5-Y  2411  FR  
8h 87 H8 8'1 90 91  Dan O'Leary Tl' ),lh.lri f lulloway TE Bohby Brown ri. John Day-Owens TE !.ann• Lt>grt•t• NG Nlltlh V.ml itltlk-Druckt•rDE  6-5 6-3 6-3 6-3 6-1 6-2  256 2.54 194 228 292 245  JR so SR f'R JR JR  82 83 84 85 86 87  Harry Spt•nct•r Matt O'Donnt•ll Evan Papt•dakis jon Fagins William Hubbard Jon Pay  WR WR I' WR WR Sll  6-1 6-0 6-ll 5-10 6-1 5-11  170 197 !Yll IHS 178 189  FR JR so FR so )R  
92  Ad.1m Tibblt•  K  5-11  183  FR  88  D.wid Ratt•nbach  Dl'  6-6  23H  JR  
93  Ill Scott  DE  6-4  282  JR  89  Rond Rt~yt•s  WR  5-11  174  S1l  
'14 95 96  Andy Wisnt• Rym• llobt•rts Se.m Mahnn  NG l.B DL  6-3 6-1 6-3  285 235 262  so f'R FR  91 92 93  Lyle Walker Ivan Garvin Greg Adams  Ill' IlL m.  6-2 6-2 6-1  2J5 247 263  SR IR Sll  
97 98 98 99  Kurt Vullcrs Anthony Wt'iWl'r Erk (;!,tss Jmmn Ching  DT DL DT DE  6-7 6-3 6-4 6-3  280 249 235 280  so FR JR JR  94 95 96 97 98  Br.1d Wimsett Bwcrani Nettles Eric Reed Jason Snidl•r Gino Marchetti  DE DE FB DT DE  h-4 6-2 5-11 6-2 6-2  255 250 195 259 240  so m FR SR JR  
99  Brian Gray  !)I.,  ,b-4  )4.9  JR  


page 6 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER ·Friday, November 13, 1998 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Irish head down tough road to New Year's Day 

I 
I 
I 
I~ 
!
! .. 

/Kick off ND Football ~ Pajja Predicts NOTRE DAME 34 


navy 12 We wish Coilch Davie, His S and the Team success in ~Q[])Q their 1 paign! £3UQ ~ruf!)J~$.3 ~ilil ~ 1] 1] ilil Dine-In a at ND Store ~ill] ~il~!l~ 
(1827 Bend Ave.) and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 

rca~~-~11 
I I 
I . . I I ; / .··299 I
L-·/____.J 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted 

For targeted Notre Dame football team, every game presents bowl atmosphere 
BILL HART Assistant Sports Editor 

How Notre Dame plays this Saturday will determine whieh bowl it will make an appearance in. 
Sounds a little melodramatie. doesn't it? True, the Irish still have three more games to play, and Navy, with its 3-5 record, looks to be the weakest of the bunch. Why should this rivalry, which has been all but dominated by Notre Dame for over three decades, deter­mine the course of the entire season? 
First off, don't expeet the streak against Navy to hold any advantage. Sure, it's the longest winning streak in the nation, but any returning student can give a vivid recollection of the final play of last year's 21-17 victory. 
For those who don't remember, the Midshipmen had the ball on their own 29-yard line with three seconds remaining. In the final play of the game, quarterback Chris MeCoy threw a Hail Mary pass that bounced off the helmet of an Irish player and fell into the hands of Pat McGrew at the 18. The receiver dashed toward the endzone, but Allen Rossum was able to knock him out at the one-yard line. 
For the fans on the other side of the stadium, including most of the student body, there was no indication of what had happened. The crowd was kept in suspense for several minutes before an obviously relieved stadium announcer relayed the outcome of the play. 
Somewhere among the confusion and relief, there was a lesson to be learned. Even though Navy was a heavy under­dog, it dominated virtually every cate­gory of the game. The questions on most fans' lips as they exited the stadi­um was, "Why was that game so close? Why wasn't it a clear cut win?" 
The answer is simple. For Navy, play­ing Notre Dame is the most important game of the season. For schools that have had less than average seasons, a win against the Irish can turn the entire season around. 
This season, one wonders whether the Irish remember that lesson. If they haven't, their opponents this season have continually tried to jar their mem­ory. 
Against Purdue, it took one intercep­tion by Tony Driver to set up the game­winning field goal and another to pre­serve the 31-30 victory. Against Army, Jim Sanson needed to kick a career­long field goal with 1:06 remaining to put the Irish on top for good. And last week against the Eagles, it took an effort from the entire defensive unit to pluck victory from the jaws of defeat. 
Where the margin of victory was one yard last year, it has now closed to within a few inches. 
For the Irish, it isn't a matter of tal­ent that hampers them; it's a matter of heart. The team must treat every game as though it's the national champi­onship, Super Bowl and the final game of their career all wrapped into one. Why? Because that's exactly the same way every team on the other side of the field is looking at it. If Coaeh Davie and his staff hope to take the team to the next level, he has to have every team treat every game as the most important one of the season. 
Which brings us back to the begin­ning. Why should this game decide the entire season for the Irish? Because it's the best chance for them to put this insight into practice. LSU is looking for atonement for last year's embarrassing defeat at home, and only a victory at fabled Notre Dame Stadium would be true revenge. As for USC, its rivalry with Notre Dame makes it one of the most hotly contested games in eollege football. Unlike other teams, however, the Tigers and Trojans have grit and determination with a great deal of tal­ent to match. 

So, before the Irish start thinking about Pasadena, they should keep their eye on the task at hand, and treat every approaching game as the impor­tant one of the season. Otherwise that margin of victory could shrink even further, even to the point where it does­n't exist at all. 
Friday, November 13, 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 7 
... 
THE IRISH INSIDER LOOKS AT
EYE ON 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION 
FOOTBALL GAMES 
Razorbacks hope to crush Vols' season 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

One of these teams' dream seasons will be erushnd Saturday. Tmmessce, for the first time since 195(>, is ranked the No. 1 team in the nation. Both teams arn undefeated at 8-0 and 5-0 in tlw SEC rrnnnossen in the East confer­once and Arkansas in the West). 
Tonnessoe is a game ahead of Florida, but tho win over the Gators keeps them on top even with a loss this week. Arkansas has a two­ganw lead in the West, and can clinch the divi­sion with a win and a loss by Mississippi state. 
ltnplar.mnnnt quartnrbar.k Tee Martin has stnpr.wd in to boconw a team leader. I lis pass­ing ganw is another of tho team's surprisos, mtrning him tlw 11th spot in the nation in pass­ing oflidency. 
ln the past four games, he has completed 67­of-IN passes for 862 yards and seven touch­downs. Martin has not been intercepted in 80 straight pass attmnpts. 
With all that production, it isn't hard to figure out why widnout Penrloss Prien's numbers have incrnasnd. lin has 40 roenptions on the year, for 52:{ yards and seven touchdowns. 
l>nspite the loss of'.Jamal Lewis, the Vols have bonn able to run the ball well. The team leads tlw SEC in rushing, duo in largo part to sopho­morn tailback Travis llenry. 
Aller allowing 50 points in the first two games of the season, the Vols' defense has givm1 up just ()4 points over the last six con­tests. Tennessee has not allowed more than 18 poinb in any conference games this year. aver­aging just 12.2 points a game. 
Linebacker AI Wilson, a Butkus Award semi­finalist, loads the squad with 64 tackles, includ­ing three sacks and li>ur tackles behind the line of scrimmagn, and one fumble reeovery and two pass brnakups. The Volunteers are yielding just 170.1 yards passing this year. 
Hazorback first-year head coach Houston Nutt has turned in his sharn of surprises in Arkansas. Nutt hopns to start ofT J\rkansas' two-gamn road trip with a win. Things don't got easier li>r Arkansas as Mississippi State is next up on the schedule. 
Hazorbac:k signal caller Clint Stoerner is one passing touchdown away from breaking the school's single-season record of 18. lie has posted huge numbers this season, throwing from behind a well-experienced line. Also standing out bnhind the olTrmsive front is the 
rushing duo of Madre llill and 
TEAM 
1. Tennesse (46) 
2. Kansas St. (19) 3. UCLA (4) 
4. 
Florida 

5. 
Florida St. (1) 

6. 
TexasA&M 

7. 
Ohio State 

8. 
Wisconsin 

9. 
Arizona 

10. 
Arkansas 

11. 
Nebraska 

12. 
Notre Dame 

13. 
Missouri 

14. 
Tulane 

15. 
Michigan 

16. 
Virginia Tech 

17. 
Georgia 

18. 
Texas 

19. 
Penn St. 

20. 
Oregon 

21. 
Virginia 

22. 
Georgia Tech 

23. 
Air Force 




23. Miami 
25. Wyoming 

Chrys 


RECORD 
8-0 
9-0 
8-0 
8-1 
9-1 
9-1 
8-1 
9-0 
9-1 
8-0 
8-2 
7-1 
7-2 
8-0 
7-2 
7-1 
6-2 
7-2 
6-2 
7-2 
7-2 
6-2 
8-1 
5-2 
8-1 

Chukwuma. 
Defensively, the defense is hitting its stride, getting its first shutout in seven seasons with the 31-0 win over Ole Miss. It leads the SEC in run defense with 82.6 yards per game. The Hazorbacks are yielding just 2.4 yards per carry this year, allowing just two rushing touchdowns an season. 

In the matchup that has had history on Nebraska's side for the past 31 years, Kansas State is the team on the verge of adding the newest chapter. The team with just 10 wins in 82 tries against the Cornhuskers has this sea­son on its side. 
The Wildcats have allowed more than nine points just once on the season and have seored more than 48 points in all but one game. In a game that most thought would have major bowl game implications, not many saw Kansas State as the favorite. But with Nebraska's two losses on the season, both in the Big 1\velve, it is the Huskers who are looking to upset the conference leader. 
In what builds to be an offensively-minded matchup, the Cornhuskers will most likely be without start­ing quarterback Bobbie Newcombe. But freshman backup Eric Crouch already has already started four games. He is aver­aging 5.8 yards pe~;. 
POINTS 
carry this year, amass­
1,718 
ing 333 yards on the 
1,677 
ground, inducting five 
TDs.
1,615 
In addition, the backfield may get tail­
1,516 
1,510 
back DeAngelo Evans
1,319 
back after a costly
1,311 
injury. Nebraska will 
1,309 
have its work cutout 
1,189 
for it as it looks to con­
1,171 
tinue the ground 
game, which has aver­
931 
aged 270 yards per game, good enough for 
899 
752 
third-best in the
747 
nation.
729 
On the other side of 
722 
the ball, Nebraska is 
596 
also well-versed in the 
577 
rushing game. An aggressive front seven has kept opponents to 
575 
498 
just 108 yards a game
360 
and only six rushing
315 
touchdowns.
260 
Any team that can 
244 
score an average of 
69 
52.4 points in a game is going to have more than one way to get to the endzone. On the ground they have gained just less than 230 yards a game, good for tenth in the nation. 

Quarterback Michael Bishop has also given opponents another thrc~at, one which last week exploded for 262 yards, two touehdowns, and another score on the rush against Baylor. Giving him the spark last weekend was fresh­man wide receiver Aaron Lockett, who picked up seven receptions for 157 yards. 
The Wildcats are led by linebaeker Jefl" Kelly, a semifinalist for the Butkus Award, Kansas State's defense will be the wall that may stone Nebraska. Not only have they stopped the gains, allowing just 72 yards rushing a game, but they have set up shop in the opponents' backfield with their 108 tackles for losses. 
With that said, in many ways, the Wildcats are still the underdog. The last time they have led against Nebraska was in the fourth quarter in 1991. 
In last year's loss, Bishop played the only bad game of his season -an 8-for-24, two-inter­ception heartbreaking defend against, yes, Nebraska. 

The party may be over for the Badgers this week as they face-ofT against their toughest opponent. Michigan has torn through its last seven games, including last week's 27-0 rout­ing of Penn State. The Wolverines are looking to extend their Big Ten winning streak to 16 straight games. 
With Ohio State's loss last weekend, this game could determine the Big Ten title. Wiseonsin's 9-0 record ties it with the 1901 team for the best ever start. But the Badgers are still a longshot for the national title, ranked ninth in the current Bowl Championship Series rankings. A win against Michigan, their most formidable opponent this season, will eertainly boost their chanees. 
The Wolverines rebounded from early season losses to Notre Dame and Syracuse relying on its strong defense to get the job done. 
The biggest test for them this weekend will be stopping Badger tailback Ron Dayne. Turning in a consistent performance each week, Dayne doesn't have the big numbers, but has rushed for more than 100 yards in eaeh game. Dayne and Wisconsin quarterback Mike Samuel will have to contend with the recent return of Michigan safety Marcus Ray from suspension. 
Offensively, the Wolverines have been lack­luster this season. Quarterback Tom Brady has only led his team to more than 30 points only once this season, in the 59-20 win against Eastern Michigan. 
Another strong defensive effort could give Michigan its 25th win in the last 28 meetings with the Badgers. The Wolverines have won eight of the last 10 games between the teams and hold a 42-10-1 lead in the all-time series. 
IRISH EXPERTS 

Sporrs Ediror 
NOTRE DAME TENNESSEE KANSAS STATE 

.. 
MICHIGAN 

Joey Cavato Associate Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME TENNESSEE NERRASKA MICIIIGAN 

Associate Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME TENNESSEE KANSAS STATE WISCONSIN 

Anthony Bianco Sporrs Writer 
NOTRE DAMF TENNESSEE KANSAS STATE MICHIGAN 

Bill Hart Assistant Spons Editor 
NOTRE DAME TENNESSEE KANSAS STATE MICHIGAN 

Brian Kessler Assistant Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME TENNESSEE NEBRASKA WISCONSIN 

• 
page 8 



l 
N 

-v-s~ 
T__ 


t~_I:DS 


Photos by John Daily and Kevin Dalum 


.­





