

Tuesday, February 24, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 98 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S .. 
• STUDENT UNION 
'He was genuine. He was grounded.'
Union hikes 
Father James Foster 

activities fee 
ByTIMLOGAN ·News Writer 
$10 for the next academic year as a result of a proposal put forth by the executive cabinet of the Student Union in December. 

Memorial 
Next year. the fee, whi~h has not been increased since the 1980s. will be $65. The . new revenue will be divided up among stu;. dent .organizations, with half ofit.going to clubs. 
While the raise in the fee is notas h1gh ·as student body vice president Erek Nass had · originally.hoped, the Student.Unionis happy with the change. 
"Although the original proposal as,k~dJor a $15 increase~> we .· are .still pleased about the. approved increase. ThHr is something that · · has eeen long overdue on campus," Nass 
explained. 
The additional mortey will increase the· budget of student government. which stood at $477,000 for the 1997-98 academic year, to approximately $550,000. That money comes from fees paid by every student. as well as 50 percent of the· proceeds from ..The Shirt"' project. 
"The increase is very necessary and long r overdue," said SUB board manager Andria Wisler. "It will enable usto put together bet-. ter and more complete programming throughoutthe year/' >< . ·..··· <..••.••·•·· · 
SUB will receive approximately 10 percent .· of the new funding and will use the money to get more outside ente.rtainment and perhaps lower ticket ~osts for student events.· 
A major factor in applying for the higher fees is the increasing cost of running events through student government. lnflation···alOne has made a substantialdentin what can be covered by the fee. ... ... .. . .. . . ........ 
Anotherproble1n ha_~J:J~§tt t~~ ~l)prea~ed cost of hiring entertainment and guests'peak.-< ·• 
.. ·:_---:·::·:·:--·~-:·: :-;-;., -:.. : ·-;-::::-:::'~:':·::::;:;:~::
ers. · ·:::;g.tr "It's been really bard work for program* r mers to keep up with expensive acts,~· Wisler said. , 
Half of the revenue from the increase will be used to fund clubs and student organiza­tions. The number of active clubs on campus. has nearly doubled since the last fee increase in the 1980s, and only55 perc~ntof funds requested by clubs w.ere allocated this Year. . "This increase addresses a need for money for student organizations. It's a good thing 
see FEE/ page 6 



Saint Mary's achieves School of the Year award 
By KAT RADEMACHER 
News Writer 
Life's a beach at Saint Mary's College. Or at least as far as the Indiana Residence Hall Organization Conference is concerned. 
Last Friday, 140 college students representing 12 Indiana schools arrived at Saint Mary's College for IRHOC '98. Keeping with the confer­ence's theme, "Life's a Beach," the stu­dents came dressed in beach gear, ready to learn and share ideas about leadership. 
A year's worth of planning to bring recognition of Saint Mary's to the state of Indiana finally paid off last Saturday when several awards were given to both the College and several students. After a full day of attending a variety of leadership program6, the students gathered for a formal banquet that night to present awards and to close the conference. 
• 
mass honors Brumbaugh 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
Sttll recovering from the shock of Notre Dame senior Justin Brumbaugh's death on Feb. 8, those he knew, as well as those he did not, gathered to remember and celebrate the life 

. of a person who was a friend, ' an intellectual, a basketball player, a storyteller, and a son. 
Joining in prayer yesterday at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart were friends, family, hallmates from Knott and Flanner, and faculty, administrators, and clergy from the Notre Dame community. 
"We have this tradition of a memorial mass as a liturgical way of bringing people together to celebrate the life of the per­son while helping everyone else to continue to move on," said University President Father Edward Malloy, who presided over the Mass. 
"I think if there is any exam­ple of the Notre Dame commu­nity rallying together, [Brumbaugh's death] is it," Malloy added. 
He also said that he had received a number of letters from people outside the Notre Dame community who were friends of the Brumbaugh fami­ly, and who expressed how impressed they were by the support that came from the 

, University and students. Residents of Brumbaugh's 
see MEM 0 RIAL/ page 6 

A number of awards were presented, but the highlight for Saint Mary's was winning the bid for School of the Year. 
Don Shaner, conference veteran from the University of Evansville, shared his thoughts about the conference. 
"These ladies have been in GLACURH [Great Lakes Association of Colleges & Universities Residence Halls] and IRHO [Indiana Residence Hall 
Organization] for only two years and put on a flawless sub-regional 
conference. 
"I can't say enough about the staff and especially the co­chairs. They made our stay a memorable one, 
Knott Hall residents proceed into the Basilica for a memori­al mass to remember and celebrate the life ofJustin Brumbaugh (above). Programs (right) for the cere­mony bore a sketched image ofthe senior. 
in attendance and record number,s of presenters and schools in attendance," said Shaner. 
In addition to winning School of the Year, Saint Mary's also received four other awards. Amy Moskalick, co-chair 
'ITHINK THIS CONFERENCE 
AND OUR AWARDS SHOW HOW FAR SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE HAS COME AND WHAT SAINT MARY'S CAN 
ACCOMPUSH.' 

AMY MOSKALCIK CO-CHAIR OF IRHOC 
of the conference, won the Outstanding Service award, as well as the Director's Pin, the highest award a student or advisor can receive on the state level. 
The director of IRHOC awards only seven pins, and three of them went to Saint Mary's. The other two 
Director's Pins were awarded to Lori Gundler, the Hoosier Communication coordi­
and [they provided] a great way to get nator and other conference co-chair, Indiana fired up with record numbers and Kim McNulty, Regina Hall director 
who served as the IRI-IOC advisor. 
Reflecting on the weekend, Moskalick said, "I think this conference and our awards show how far Saint Mary's College has come and what Saint Mary's can accomplish." 
Gundler also had a positive impres­sion of the conference. 
"I am so proud of what we accom­plished this weekend. The women of the conference staff and the Saint Mary's delegation represented the school with class and pride and truly brought out the best in Saint Mary's. It was an honor to work with all of them," Gundler said. 
McNulty elaborated on Saint Mary's success. 
"This conference has been a wonder­ful experience for the women of Saint Mary's College. IRHOC is a completely student run conference, and we showed the state of Indiana what the stud~nts of Saint Mary's College can do." 


Tuesday, February 24, 1998

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Addicted to '.lt ' 
It started out 
Shannon Ryan
innocently 
Saint Mary's Assistant Sports Editor 
enough. . 
I stood in a line 
with a rowdy crew of students my freshman 
year, anxiously waiting to fill my cup with 
it. It, being that sweet substance we college 
kids take in like water. 
But since that first taste, I think it has 
become a problem. So I'm giving it up for 
Lent, just as a trial period to see how I live 
without it and to realize if it's as serious as 
what I've guessed. 
After my first swallow, I couldn't even 
stand it. The taste was overbearing and I 
practically gagged. It was way too filling 
and heavy, not to mention unhealthy for my 
preference. As my friends devoured theirs 
in seconds, I struggled to get mine down. 
But, oh, how things have changed. 
It only took a few more tries and magical­
ly I couldn't get enough. I'm famous for 
being able to take in more than any guy. 
Not that I'm proud of this or anything. 
As I discovered a world of tropical, sweet, 
sour, and fruity flavors, I fell in love with 
this refreshment. I became an expert at 
mixing the perfect flavors for a heavenly 
blend. 
After a long week of stress, nothing com­
pared to that cold concoction sliding down 
my throat. When I had a full or temporarily 
empty cup in my hand, I could relax and 
make conversation with ease. It somehow 
made the world seem okay. 
Some was even labeled Lite, although this 
isn't half as good as the "real stuff." It 
claims to be made of fairly natural ingredi­
ents, so it couldn't be too bad for me, I fig­
ured. But no matter what brand or type, I 
reveled in it. 
However, I soon began to overfndulge, 
and it started to control my life. I became 
irritable when it ran out or if a long line 
formed ahead of me. I always wanted more 
and I wanted it fast! I didn't even learn I 
had a limit until I spent hours sick one 
night. 
I realize my reputation has plummeted 
when I get "the look," mostly from other 
females. At first my friends joked about my 
large consumption, but just recently they 
took it upon themselves to "intervene." 
They said they knew all about my secret 
morning sneaks. Ashamed, I admitted the 
truth. My unchecked craving had become so 
enormous that I desired it at least three 
times every day. Sometimes I had four at 
one sitting. Technically, friends informed 
me, that meant I was bingeing. 
I've realized that this is serious. I'm 
embarrassed to admit it, but if I'm not 
indulging in it, I'm often thinking about it. I 
don't want to be like this. It has been a 
waste of time, counterproductive, and occa­
sionally humiliating. 
That's why during Lent, I will muster all 
of my willpower and take an essential time 
out. Hopefully, I can reexamine who I really 
am and regain some control over my life. 
So right now, I'm taking this opportunity 
to make a solemn vow that will make me a 
better person. I promise myself, my friends 
and classmates, that for 40 days, despite 
peer pressure or craving, I will abstain 
from every flavor and variety of frozen 
yogurt. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sarah Hiltz  Joel Cummins  
Anne Hosinski  Andrea Jordan  
Colleen McCarthy  Bridget Rzezutko  
Sports  Graphics  
Bill Hart  Melissa Weber  
Viewpoint  Production  
Spencer Stefko  Mark DeBoy  
Lab Tech  
Kevin Dalum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation pc'riods. The Observ~r is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Committee to examine possible grade inflation problem 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
As far as grades go, a B just isn't what it used to be -and at the University, that's raising a few eye­brows. 
An analysis of the University's grades shows a steady climb in high marks over the last 10 years. During the next few months, a committee will look into rising grade point averages, 
an issue which plagues colleges and universities across the nation. 
At Princeton, a report released this month documents a definite grade inflation trend. The average GPA rose to 3.42 in 1997 from 3.08 in 1973. 
Similarly, the mean GPA at the University ofWashington reached 3.12 in 1996, up from 2.31 in 1964. And at Stanford University, As and Bs make up 80 percent of the grades earned. 
Compared to the higher grades at these schools, the university might be only at the doorstep of the grade infla­
• PENNSYlVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
NAACP rallies for removal of book 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Not everybody thinks a boy named Huck should be in school, so some people are trying to get him expelled ­from reading lists. However, these efforts to take The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn off mandatory school reading lists have left many university teachers and stu­dents arguing for its right to stay. Earlier this month the state chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People held press conferences across the state urging school districts to drop the novel from their mandatory reading lists. According to an NAACP resolution, the organization finds that the repeat­ed use of racial slurs in the novel leads to well-document­ed psychological damage to African-American children's self-esteem, especially in the classroom. Reading the book should be optional, said Sandra Choute, president of the University chapter of the NAACP. "Students who find the book offensive should be able to read another book or be excused from class," Choute said. 
• VALE UNIVERSITY Grad student's forgery trial begins 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
Tonica Jenkins, a graduate student, accused in December of forging her application to Yale's Graduate School, will attend a pre-trial hearing in New Haven Superior Court Monday. Jenkins was arrested Dec. 8 after Yale's Graduate School conducted an internal investigation, looking into allegations that Jenkins fabricated her application and rec­ommendations when applying to Yale's Biological and Biomedical Sciences program. She was charged with first degree larceny, second degree fraud, and attempting to escape custody. Jenkins pleaded innocent to these charges. If convicted, Jenkins could face up to 35 years in prison, said Yale Law professor Steven Duke, who added that Jenkins might only be sentenced with a year of probation if this is her first offense, after which her record would be expunged of any conviction. If this is a second offense, Duke said, a conviction could mean a year of imprisonment. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperaiUres 

r--<--------­
' 
Tuesday ~48 33 Wedn~sday~ 50 34 
; 
Thurspay 4, 51 41 Friday ~ .. 46 37 .. 
~t '''') -· . ·:,;t-·· 
Satutday /t',1t:1 50 36 
t)' •""'\;.....,,.......t"'"1,;.) 
~~~~~c::1 ~ ~ ~ 
' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' ' : .... :. ·=· ·:·.·:··:·.-:--:...-:... '"::. 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunn~ Pt. Cloud' Cloud' VIS Associated Press GraphicsNet 
.. ....

.......... ......, .............. .A.. .i• •a•&•. a•11.•A ~.-.. ....... ·-·.A· ......., ...... ........... ..... 
. . • 
• 


tion problem. Reasons for the increas­es are difficult to pin down, and school officials are reluctant to offer concrete answers. 
Possibilities include better academ­ically prepared students, increasing instruction and grading by non­tenured professors, and changing philosophies about what grades mea­sure. 
A subcommittee of the university Senate's Committee on Educational Policy is examining whether grade inflation is a problem at the university. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Feb. 24. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Atlanta 51 39 Los Angeles 58 54 Philadelphia 45 36 
-
Boston 40 32 Las Vegas 58 49 St.Louis 57 41 Chicago 50 38 Miami 79 56 SeaHie 49 36 Dallas 71 44 Milwaukee 43 35 Tampa 70 48 Honolulu 79 68 New Orleans 66 48 Wichrta 58 36 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 
Friends find body of missing student 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
Friends of Anton Bakker said his mother's intuition 
yesterday led them to his body two miles downstream 
from the 80-foot waterfall he tumbled over Sunday 
while trying to rescue a friend's dog. A friend spotted 
Bakker, University of Arizona economics senior. at 
11:30 a.m. two miles downstream from Tanque Verde Falls, said Deputy Jim Ogden, Pima County Sheriff's Department spokesman. Friends, relatives and the Pima County Search and Rescue team have been searching for Bakker since Sunday night. "He probably dislo"dged and flushed out sometime during the night," Ogden said. "Two miles is quite a ways from the falls." No informa­tion regarding Bakker's injuries or cause of death was available, and as of yesterday afternoon, it had not been determined whether an autopsy would be performed, Ogden said. Max Webber, VA senior majoring in English, found Bakker, 2 2, lying halfway on a sandbar in the water. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN Police arrest former prof after standoff 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
A former university English professor, who fled the coun­
try more than 14 years ago with her boyfriend after police 
tried to arrest him on a weapon charge in Ann Arbor, was 
arrested and taken into custody Frid~y after a three-hour 
standoff with police in Lexington, Ky. Bob and Gayl Jones 
shut themselves in her family's house and eluded police for 
three hours Friday before officers stormed the doorway to 
present Jones with the 14-year-old warrant. Bob Jones slit 
his own throat when officers entered the house. He later 
died at the University of Kentucky Hospital. Gayl Jones 
attempted suicide, but officers restrained and arrested her. 
In 1983, Bob Jones, also known as Bob Higgins, waved a 
shotgun at protesters during a gay rights rally in front of 
the federal building on Liberty Street. Higgins, then a local 
business executive, was arrested on charges of a weapons 
violation with intent to frighten. 
"There have been concerns raised around the university for decades about the unreliability of the current grading structure," said Judith Martin, the subcommittee's chair. 
By studying data from the registrar's office spanning several decades, mem­hers will attempt to find a concrete picture of the university's grade situa­tion. They could have a report ready by the end of spring quarter. 
Since 1989, the average fall quarter grade point average for university undergraduates has risen to 2.96 from 2.83. 
"This isn't any monumental increase," said John Kellogg, a senior analyst in the Office of Planning and Analysis. But he added, "It's a definite trend." 
And with that trend comes an increase in the percentages of As and Bs earned in several of the university's undergraduate colleges. 


,
----------~~-.~--------------------------~------~--------------------------------~----~------~-------­
Tuesday, February 24, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Runners help fight leukemia, other cancers with marathon 

By ANNE MARIE "Team In Training" program signed up," Henshaw said. MATIINGLY over the next few months. "We started training in Assistant News Editor "Team In Training" partici­February and slowly pro­
pants enter a five-month train­gressed; now I can run eight to 
In an effort to raise $35 mil­ing program, during which they 10 miles," she explained. lion for the support of research gear up for the marathon, Throughout the training peri­to cure leukemia and related which will be held on June 25. od, runners and walkers gather cancers, over 15,000 people will Notre Dame senior Colleen sponsorship money from participate in the Leukemia Henshaw, a program partici­friends, relatives, and co-work­Society of America's first annual pant, plans to run in the ers. The funds raised are used 
26.2 mile Rock 'N' Roll California race. to support research in search of Marathon in San Diego this "I've been running for leisure a cure for leukemia and its June. for about two years, and I read related cancers, lymphoma, 
Almost one-third of the run­an article about "Team In multiple myeloma, and ners will be preparing for the Training" in "Runners' World." Hodgkin's disease. race by participating in the I called the Chicago chapter and ''I'm raising $3,000 for 
utORU> ~-AJJJOO~ (JtJK~J; <Jow~m OR-A<JOK kRos.Ar~ 
Friday, February 27 7:00pm Stepan Center 
S3 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's/ Holy Cross 
$5 General 

Tix on sale at LaFortune Information Desk &at the Door 
leukemia research and aid to 
families," Henshaw said. 
"Right now I'm trying to 'sell' 
my body parts -like arms and 
legs -to businesses at home so 
they sponsor me. When I 'sell' a 
part, like my arm, I write the 
business's name and phone 
number all over it, and they 
make a donation." 
Other aspects of the training 
program include personal 
coaching, information clinics 
focusing on proper marathon 
attire, fund-raising incentives, 
and advice from a mentor. 
"My mentor, Chris, is a man who has run the race before. He provides mental motivation. Since I can't make all the prac­tices with the group in Chicago, he sends me e-mail about what they are doing. He's also taught me a lot about leukemia," Henshaw said. 
Each runner in the marathon represents a "Patient Hero," a leukemia survivor or current patient. Henshaw's hero is five­year-old Emily Stone. 
"It's neat that I'm running for Emily and that I know her. I don't know the pain she's feel­ing, but I know that I'm running and as tired as I get, I know that it'll never be as bad as what she's already been through. She's only five," she said. 
Henshaw plans to run the marathon wearing a shirt on which she has written the names of several leukemia vic­tims. She commented that since she began the training pro­gram, she has become more aware of how many lives are affected by leukemia, as well as the diversity of those working for the cure. 
"There are men and women walking. There are 60-year-olds running. The people are all 
ages, shapes, sizes, and speeds, 
but everyone's got the same 
goal," she said. 
"A year ago I didn't know 
anything about marathons, and 
I didn't know anything about 
running except for putting my 
shoes on and going out. Now I 
run with a purpose," Henshaw 
explained. 
Leukemia is a cancer of the 
blood that occurs as a result of 
the mutation of DNA. If this 
occurs in the bone marrow, the 
result is leukemia, and in the 
lymph nodes the result is lym­
phoma. These malignant cells 
are more able to grow and sur­
vive in the bone marrow, and 
begin to grow uncontrollably, 
replacing normal cells and 
inhibiting marrow function. 
Leukemia can be either acute or chronic. The major differ­ence between the two leukemias is the rate at which they progress; acute leukemia proceeds at a much greater speed than chronic. Which of these types develops is deter­mined by the DNA mutation and the location of the malignant cells. 
As leukemia proceeds, bone marrow functions less efficient­ly, resulting in an insufficient production of red cells, white cells, and platelets. This defi­ciency causes anemia, which leads to fatigue, weakness, and a pale color. Falling levels of white cells leave the patient more susceptible to disease, and the low platelet count permits s_pontaneous or prolonged bleeding from small wounds. 
Diagnosis consists of a cell count under a microscope and confirmation by a bone marrow test. Current treatments of choice include chemotherapy and bone marrow transplants. 


~C9ru~ ~fJ:le9 
Anytime you call between 5:30 & 7:0Q the price of your large 1 topping pizza is the time you call. 
* Plus tax 
Open for ltJnch everyday 

you call between ·10:30 -12:5~ the price of your 2 large 1 topping pizzas is the time you call. 
* Plus tax 

Drive-In and Delivery Visa/Mastercard Accepted 


-' : 
page 4 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Monday-Frida)'t February 23-27, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Applications for NDE #51 (March 27-29) 
Tuesday, February 24, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Campus Bible Study 
You are invited to study the scriptures during lent. This is one way to learn about the message of the Lord and what we as followers are expected to do. The study will be James' Letter. 
Wednesday, February 25 



Ash Wednesday 
Friday-Saturday, February 27-28, St. Joe Hall 
Freshmen Retreat #16 for residents of Alun1ni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, Keenan, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West and Sorin. Please see your rector or stop by Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library. Application deadline: Tuesday, February 24. 
Friday-Saturday, February 27-28, Lindenwood Retreat Center 

Learning To Talk About Race Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, Feb. 27-March 1, Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #50 
Sunday, March 1, 11:45 am, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Guest Celebrant: Rev. Edward Branch, Atlanta University Center Voices of Faith and Rejoice! Gospel Choirs Guest Conductor: Mr. Kevin Johnson, Univ. of Missouri-Kansas City 
In progress, Hesburgh Library Concourse 
"A Glimpse Into the Soul" ­
An Art Exhibit 
The artwork of Belinda Bryant '01 and Alan Easter '01 will be on exhibit. 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-­


Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Beef group aware of Oprah show lineup 
AMARILLO, Texas 
A spokeswoman for a beef industry trade associ­ation testified yesterday that far from being ambushed, the group knew it would be up against an anti-meat cru­sader on "The Oprah Winfrey Show." Ali sa Harrison, a spokeswoman Winfrey for the National Cattlemen's Beef Association, said she approved of allowing specialist Gary Weber to debate vegetarian activist Howard Lyman over whether mad cow disease threatened 
U.S. cattle. "We can take Howard Lyman," Harrison wrote in notes that were entered as evidence. "Confidence in beef is high and we can keep it there. Our members watch Oprah, and if we're not there, they'll want to know why." A group of Texas cattlemen is suing Winfrey, her production company and Lyman for $12 million, saying the April 16, 1996, episode falsely implied mad cow dis­ease threatened U.S. cattle and caused cat­tle prices to plummet. Harrison took the stand as a witness for Winfrey. Weber has testified that the way his comments were edited in the show's final version was unfair. 


Twenty-nine die in India election violence 
NEW DELHI, India 
Leftist guerrillas set off a mine Monday that killed five soldiers sent to guard polling sta­tions in India's parliamentary elections. The explosion and other attacks raised the elec­tion-related death toll to 29 over two days. The soldiers were traveling to polling stations in Andhra Pradesh state, where voting in India's staggered nationwide elections picks up again Saturday. Another 37 soldiers were injured. Police suspect the outlawed Peoples War Group, who had urged a boycott of the vote. Balloting Monday in Nagaland and Mizoram, two remote northeastern states, was the third in a six-day eJection. The first two days, Feb. 16 and Sunday, completed vot­ing for three-fourths of the 543 legislative dis­tricts at stake. More than 600 million Indians are eligible to vote. Tribal guerrillas seeking autonomy called for a boycott in Nagaland, supported by opposition parties and student groups. But election officials said turnout was nearly 42 percent. Also Monday, a court rein­stated a right-wing Hindu nationalist govern­ment dismissed in Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state, over the weekend after two of its coalition partners withdrew support. 
Market Watch: 2/23 
AMEX:
Dow 
689.08 
-11.00
]ONES 
Nasdaq:-3.74 1751.76 

+23.63 
NYSE: 538.41 
+0.92 


S&P 500: Composite1038.14 Volume:8410.20 +3.93 686,094,680 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
rm.n~~l:ill: IICnB :llo Cllb.~"[ I "41~ £BICE ECOMAT 1:-IC ECMT 61.54 1.000 2.63 TRUSTED INFO SYS TIS X 52.97 6.690 19.31 MOTORRAC INC MVAC 31.0~ 0.560 2.38 ENERGY BIOSYSTEMS ENBC 30.30 0.625 2.69 CEr-.iTURY INDS CIIB 27.711 0.625 2.88 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
lVG TECH TVGVF 1000.00 79.370 260.08 Gll.'-iAN !<CO GTAXW 19.19 19.190 
5.00 

STOCKER k YALE STKR 18.92 0.875 3.75 QUIGLEY CORr QGL\' 16.80 2.690 13.30 MORROW S:-i080ARD MRRW 15.52 0.563 3.06 
Florida tornadoes kill 38, injure 250 
AssociATED PREss 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 
Florida's deadliest swarm of tornadoes on record plowed through the central part of the state at the height of tourist season on Monday, killing at least 38 people, including an 18-month-old toddler sucked from its father's arms. Eleven people were reported missing. 
Rescue workers used blood­hounds to look for bodies in rubble-strewn neighborhoods. 
"Debris is piled up so bad, it may take a while to find any survivors," said Doug Braswell, a spokesman for the Seminole County Public Safety Department. 
A pickup truck ended up on its nose inside a wrecked liv­ing room and retirees lost nearly everything they had, but the six to 10 twisters missed Walt Disney World and the two other major theme parks in the Orlando area. 
Curfews were set for dusk in ··.· the hardest-hit areas: ~ore · ······ AFP Photo 
~han 2?0 people were InJUr~d, several apartment complex buildings lie in ruins yesterday in Winter Garden, Fla., after tor­mcludmg a 16-year-old girl nadoes swept across the central region of the state . .Officials have reported nearly 40 fatali­who was blown 150 feet out of ties and continue a ground and aerial search for victims. a window into a pasture. 
David Myers had a broken foot after metal paneling and pink insulation It was the deadliest round of torna­being hurled against a wall. ''I'm just that remained of her mobile home. does in Florida since the National lucky to be alive. I've been thrown off "It's all gone," cried Mrs. Wolfe, who Weather Service started keeping of horses and out of airboats, but moved from Dayton, Ohio, in 1983 detailed records a half-century ago. that's the hardest I've ever been with her husband, Ned. "This was our And it was the state's most deadly day slammed," he said. whole life. I'm 73 years old and you since Hurricane Andrew struck in 
The pink playhouse he built for his can't start over at 73. What good is it? 1992, killing at least 32 people in 6-year-old daughter, Brittany, lay in a You work so hard and now there's Florida, Louisiana and the Bahamas. pile amid the shattered glass of a bed­nothing. I wish it would've kiJled me." "The level of devastation I saw here room window. Brittany was sent to She and her husband both escaped is equal to Hurricane Andrew, even if stay with relatives while Myers and unharmed. She eventually found her in a more narrow area," said Jeff Hall, his wife and brothers cleaned up. medicine, along with her wallet con­fire chief in Osceola Count;'. 
El Nifi.o fueled the thunderstorms taining $4 she won at Bingo earlier Some of the tornadoes may have that blew in off the Gulf of Mexico just that night. had wind speeds as high as 210 mph, before midnight Sunday, spitting out One man was holding his 18-month­said Bob Ebaugh of the weather ser­tornadoes from the Tampa Bay area old baby in his arms in his mobile vice. on the Gulf to Daytona Beach on the home near Kissimmee, about 15 miles More than 135,000 people in central Atlantic Coast. Georgia also was south of Orlando, when a tornado Florida lost power at the height of the affected, with floods closing roads and roared through before dawn. storms. schools Monday after as much as five "The baby was in the father's arms, "To have that number of strong and inches of rain fell Sunday. and it got sucked out into the torna­violent tornadoes concentrated in a 
In this retirement haven for thou­do," said Osceola County Fire Chief small geographical area is unprece­sands from the Midwest and Jeff Hall. The child's body was found dented for Florida. It is a historical Northeast, Josie Wolfe searched for by late afternoon; it wasn't immedi­event. It's of that caliber," meteorolo­her medicine amid the scraps of wood, ately known if it was a boy or a girl. gist Dave Sharp said. 
Clinton Cal.l.tiousl~wcbacks Iraq Qeal 

meh~l(,h tJ;N. ec.onomic A'fihan reached Sunday lif Tuesdayto NewYork.· 
sanctHins .. ·. that.·. have Baghdad with Saddam. w~s · Then, Clinton. sa,id, "we 
WASHINGTON wreaked havoc on the Iraqi t~afthe inspectors wou~(} need to test the agre~ment 
President Clinton gave ecohomy~Jtwas learned the· .be supplemented witllli and verify that th~ commit~ 
cautious approval Monday agreement holds out the diplomatic contingent. Iraq ments which are made in 
to a U.N. agreement with has con~ writing are kept in fact.'" 
Saddam Hussein for moni­tended White House spokesman 
toring suspect weapons 
t h a t Mike McCurry said nothing 
sites in Iraq. stepping back American Annan report~dabout the 
from the immediate threat 'W.··.ENEEDTO inspectors deal ''would indicate that 
.. TEST THE
of a U.S. military attack.· are spies. the United Napons has any­
Clinton said he would keep AGREEMENT AND VERI· T h e thing but unfettered capaci­· a potent force in the diplomats ty to continue its work."
FY JliAT THE COMMIT·
Persian Gulf. w o u I d Iraq's deputy prime min­The president said that if MENTS WHICH ARE accompany ister, Tariq Aziz, who Iraq reneged on a commit­inspectors signed the accord with
MADE .JN WRITING ARE 
ment to make possible to presi-' Annan. said in Baghdad, ..It 
KEPT IN FACT.'
chemical and biological dential was diplomacy -wise, bal­
weapons sites subject to PRESIDENI' CLTNI'ON complexes, anced United Nations, 
inspection. the conse­which world diplomacy -.• . that 
quences would be· .. very Sad dam enabled us to reach this 
very serious." promise they would be has vigorously declared .agreement." 
"What really matters ... is eased or lifted if Iraq com~ were Ws private preserve. But Annan, in comments 
not what Iraq says but what plied totally with U.N. "There are details in the more in line with the 
it. does," the president said inspections. agreement that have to be American view. said the 
in the White House Oval Another gesture to Iraq in fleshed out," Clinton said. deal was worked out with 
Office. the accord. which U.N. · Some may become clear "diplomacy backed by firm~ 
Although Clinton did not Secretary-General Kofi after· Annan returns ness and force." 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 24, 1998 

Fee 
continued from page 1 

for students and student activi­ties," club coordinator Tony Siefring said. 
"In the past there has been a big lack of money for clubs. Now they can put on more and bigger events," Siefring explained. 
The new funding will be dis­tributed in the same way as in years past. Every club will pre­sent a budget for review by the council, which will determine the amount each receives. 
The condition that 50 percent of the new funding be directed toward student clubs was a cru­cial point in the approval of the increase by Student Affairs and the officer's group. In a letter to student body president Matt Griffin, vice president for Student Affairs Patricia O'Hara called that feature the "most persuasive" part of the propos­al. 
Part of the reason for an increase of only $10, instead of the proposed $15, was the range of programs sponsored by the University's operating budget. Major expenditures such as Dome, Scholastic maga­zine, WFVI and WSND are funded by Student Affairs, which has a separate budget from that of student govern­ment. 
Intramural and club athletics are sponsored by RecSports. At many schools with higher stu­dent activities fees, student gov­ernments subsidize programs of that nature. 
The $65 student activity fee will come on top of a hall tax which averages $40 and goes to fund a number of student activ­ities run through the residence halls. 
friend was also mentioned in Foster's homily. He spoke ofhow people felt comfortable going to Brumbaugh with problems or with questions. 
"Justin had the ability to meet with people where they were at and to connect with them," Foster said. 
"He was genuine. He was grounded." 
Foster closed his homily by recognizing Joyce and Keith Brumbaugh, Justin's parents, who attended the Mass. 
"I want to thank you for shar­ing Justin with us. You will always be part of our Notre Dame community," Foster said. 

Memorial 
continued from page 1 
dorm, Knott Hall, played integral roles in the service as well. His hallmates processed in preced­ing the clergy. Justin Sandberg and Matthew Kunz served as 
lectors while Knott Hall co-presidents Peter Cesaro and Matthew Jacques led the Intercessions. 
"In a short time he had left a deep and lasting imprint on people's life," Father James Foster said of 
Brumbaugh during the homily. 
Last week, Foster visited Brumbaugh's web page to find out "how he defined himself," and this served as the basis for his homily. He also talked to Brumbaugh's friends to get a better idea of how people will remember him. 
Upon viewing his web page, Foster found what Brumbaugh called his "words to live by." The phrase which conveyed Brumbaugh's love of sports was, "Always remember, today is a good day to play basketball." 
Although Foster emphasized Brumbaugh's love for basket­
'ITHINK IF THERE IS ANY EXAMPLE OF THE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY RALLYING TOGETHER, (BRUMBAUGH'S DEATH] IS IT.' 
UNIVERSITY PRESIDENT FATHER EDWARD MALLOY 
ball, he added that, "He was more than a basketball play­er. He worked hard in his stud­
ies and was at the top of his class. In the eyes of many, he was a model student, an 
ideal human being." Brumbaugh's 
ability to tell a story was also remembered. 
"He was a wonderful story­teller," Foster said. "People said he could read a phone book and make it funny." 
The quality of being a good 
TONIGHT: 
Meet at library circle for a ride or just head over to Borders Bookstore on Grape Road for a coffeehouse event. Hear personal stories shared by students along with Question & Answer sessions. Coffee and free refreshments will be served. 
Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Computer center expands, gets new name 
Special to The Observer 

The name of the Notre Dame Computer Store has been changed to the "IT Solutions Center" -"IT' signifying "infor­mation technology" -to reflect an expan­sion of both the product selection and ser­vices the store offers to University stu­dents, faculty and staff. according to Larry Rapagnani, a.ssistant provost for Information Technologies. 
In coming months, the store, which pre­viously sold and supported just Dell, Apple and IBM computers, will expand its system selection and add stafT. 
"The new name is part of our effort in Information Technologies to become more than just a computer department," Rapagnani said. "We plan to use our cam­puswide purchasing power to add a broad­er selection from more PC vendors, and we are adding personnel to improve our response time on campus. All of this, we believe, will enable us to offer better value to Notre Dame students, faculty, staff and departments." 
Concurrent with these changes is the appointment of Dan Brewer as manager of the IT Solutions Center. Brewer has worked for 12 years in the computer prod­ucts and services field and has extensive experience with hardware and software vendors including IBM, Zenith, Apple, Novell, Corel, Compaq, Hewlett-Packard and Microsoft. 
"Dan has man11ged staffs of marketing, technical and administrative personnel in four states," Rapagnani said. "He has developed many vendor relationships, cre­ated contracts, established policies and set standards for products and services. He supports a team atmosphere and is com­mitted to high customer service, values and ethics." 
The IT Solutions Center is located on the ground level of the Computing Center and Math Building and is open weekdays from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. 


TONIGHT AT FINNIGAN'S 
LAST WEEK THE BEADS WERE FALLING FROM ABOVE. TONIGHT WE WILL HAVE THE OFFICIAL 
1998 MARDI GRAS T..SHIRTS PLUS MANY OTHER ITEMS THAT WILL BE UP FOR GRABS. 
WE WOULD LIKE TO THANK ALL OF YOU WHO PARTICIPATED IN OUR MARDI GRAS CELEBRATION. DON'T FORGET~ ST. PATRICK'S DAY IS JUST AROUND THE CORNER!! 
G.,l\~l 

campaign refo:r:m bill 



The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
Fr. John Harvey, OSFS 
Fr. Harvey has spent 38 years specializing in the pastoral care of homosexual persons. He is founder and director of Courage. Courage offers a network of spiritual support groups for men and women with homosexual tendencies who desire to live chaste lives. Courage chapters now serve six Canadian and 29 U.S. dioceses, as well as others in the Phillipines, England, and Ireland. 
In addition to his1985 book,The Homosexual Person: New Thinking in Pastoral Care , Fr. Harvey has recently authored The Truth About Homosexuality: The Cry ofthe Faithful (1996), which Fr. Benedict Groeschel has described as "an excellent summary of the most solid thinking available at the present time on living chastely with homosexuality." In addition to these two titles, he has published over 45 articles on homosexuality, with one forthcoming on "The Pastoral Challenge of Homosexuality on a Catholic Campus." 

Fr. Groeschel writes: "A word of respectful gratitude must be said about Father John Harvey, who has effectively and modestly worked with homosexuals seeking a chaste lifestyle for almost half a century. He has had more than his share of opposition, rejection, and misunderstanding on all sides. Being a real disciple of Christ, he never quit. He has never even thought of quitting. He was and remains way ahead of his time." 
Fr. Harvey will address both the challenge and the hope of being a Christian with homosexual tendencies. 

Tuesday, February 24 Hesburgh Library Lounge • 8:00 p.tn. 
·II I 
1 
I I I 
I 



OINT 
page 8 Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Advertising Manager ............................. .Jc:d Peters News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ............................. Brian Kessler Production Manager. ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The: Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofthe University of Notre Dame: du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.<ible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the: majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, A=m Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obsc:rvc:r@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• TABlE TALK 
Humans and Apes: Are We Worlds Apart? 
Science, it seems, seeks to close two If apes are capable of linguistic com­certain stubbornness on our part ­gaps: One between us and God, the munication, even if only on a rudimen­"with every living creature." If God can other between us and animals. tary level, what ethics should hence­make a covenant with apes, we might Already this year the latter gap has forth guide our interaction with them, welcome a linguistic bridge by which closed significantly. in the lab and in the wild? If they can to better exercise our own imitation of 
fashion and symbolize meaning, do God. they acquire a new moral standing as Revelation 5:13 describes the choir lab subjects or indigenous dwellers? which praises Jesus in heaven as com­To what extent are we responsible for prised of "every creature in the air and
David 
seeking to communicate our intentions on the earth and under the earth and to them? To elicit their consent? Or to in the sea" -precisely the creatures understand their perceptions and over which (according to Genesis 1:26­desires regarding us? 28) we hold dominion. If apes are to
Weiss 
Christians may feel especially join us in the heavenly choir, why unnerved if we must admit that the begrudge them the use of language very skill which we have prided our­toward this end? Might we not rather selves on sharing solely with God has welcome this as an opportunity to 
Sci,entists recently announced that been (and for some time, no doubt) learn to sing in harmony with them? while examining the brains of chim­Plentiful examples from the biblical panzees that had died of natural caus­or church tradition witness to the per­
C
HRISTIANS MAY FEEL ESPE­
es, they uncovered physical evidence in ception that God takes special delight the brain structures themselves of CIALLY UNNERVED IF WE in and offers particular care to many "specialized functions" in the same in the animal kingdom beyond 
MUST ADMIT THAT THE VERY SKILL
part of the brain that governs human humans. At our best, when driven nei­speech. This is now supported by WHICH WE HAVE PRIDED OUR­ther by pride nor fear, we Christians other research with MRI scans of living have been able to say simply that apes
SELVES ON SHARING SOLELY WITH
chimps -and perhaps soon by PETs are creatures who, alongside us, (dynamic "real-time" brain scans) GOD HAS BEEN ••• QUIETLY receive the blessing and the love of which could link activity in this part of God.
SHARED BY OUR UNASSUMING
the brain to linguistic tasks the chimps I doubt that chimps will directly ver­are actually performing at that time. NEMFSIS ••• THE APE. balize any dramatic theological or sci­Moving beyond earlier controversial entific insights in any cross-species
work in which chimps had been chats. But indirectly, the very fact that "taught" sign-language, studies criti­we can potentially engage in them cized as merely demonstrating the quietly shared by our unassuming might remind us of a kinship with the remarkable mimicry of our close pri­nemesis in the whole creation-evolu­rest of creation that is at once more 
mate cousins, these brain studies are tion debate, the ape. We may find fur­humble and more scared than any we less susceptible to subjective bias. ther threatened the tenaciously held have yet imagined. 
Another study claims to identify belief that we are somehow utterly "Perfection, in a Christian sense, clear, intentional (not instinctive) trail superior to -that we sit outside and means becoming mature enough to markings by bonobos (close relatives to above the animal kingdom, in a catego­give ourselves to others." -Kathleen chimps) in the wild. This might sug­ry unique to ourselves, called "domin­Norris, Christian Century. Feb. 18, gest that when lab chimps are "taught" ion." Ironically, however, Christians 1998. linguistic tasks whether through sign also have perhaps the greatest language or hieroglyph-like symbols, it resources for embracing a newfound David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in is less that we are "teaching" them fellowship with our terrestrial compa­Christian ethics. His column appears
anything new than that we are con­triots. every other Tuesday. 
firming for ourselves what they Genesis 9:8-17, the epilogue to the The views expressed in this column already do quite well without us. This Flood account records God making a are those of the author and not neces­possibility poses a number of provoca­the covenant of protection -and it is sarily those of The Observer. tive questions. noted five times, almost anticipating a 



• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
'If 
men could get pregnant, abortion would be a sacrament.' 
-florynce Kennedy 


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
page 9 

• So, WHAT's Mv POINT? 
Overpaid 
Athletes Behave 
Like Children 
The onl~ term that comes·to.mind is "spoiled brats." Along w1th petty, rude, uncivilized, shallow, arrogant, conceited, boorish and just plain stupid. 
~\:·..·· H:\.. ,,

Nakas a 

.:-:ii·· .. 
Ahmad 

In case you .)laven1guessed.l'mtalkingabout tlt~ , 
U:S. men•s ice hockey team. Whic~. though exp~\() wm the gold medal·-·. or at least anymedal-····· ,w~~ . shut out ofthe race completely. Instead. the Czech Republic got the gold. · 
So what did the U.S. players do?, They decided to 
trash their rooms and then get the heck out of Nagano. What ever happened to gOOd sportsmanship?·· ...·... · The U.S. team'slossw~ a.II the more·unexpec(e~ in 
!]:t~t ~ost ofthe m~mbe~ ()~the teau1."\<\'ere·•hill'b1YnP~id professional players and members·orthe NHI!: Tij.ey ( w~nt to Nagano, not in the spirit ofthe games,butto. wm because they felt thatthey had deserved it. And .. 
when they didn't getwhat they''deserved," they decidw ed to act Hke ..~ well, like· 5-year;.;olds with severe tem­per tantrums. . . 
'~ctu~lly, Ithink if\V~'dsent 5:y~a.r..olds toJ~pari, they might have been better·beh?ved. ;;; ·· 
Maybe the fact that· they· were mghly-paid prof~iQn.. als made them so confident that t}}ey not only wo.Jl).U. . but.•should win the. gold ..··In the pastfew years, it has been highly-paid athletes who have been increasingly more spoiled and petty. Highly-paid athletes brought us the baseball strike of1994 (which was basically · about millionaire players battling )Vith millionaire own-:­ers in a hotly contested and rivetingrace to see, not who would get to the World Series, but who would get the cash cow), and more recently. the Mike Tyson inci­dent (ear cartilage -the new power food?) and the Lattell Sprewell choking incident. Along. ofcourse, with other events. · 
Is there something about money which justmakes people rude? · · · · 
The amount of moneythat we as Americans give to athletes who can make phenomenal three-pointers and hithome runs is, well, insane~ We only give the · 
President of the United States ofAmerica $2()0~()00 a year,but any NBApla)'er probably makes aboptfiye · tiines that sum. At the very least; that is. . 1 · 
Actually, very few professions can generate the kind ofmoney that acting and professional athletics can get. Professors, who are probably the most educated of all the people in America, get paid squat for passing their knowledge on to us. Other professions. like engineer~ 
· ing, while they get paid well, can't even beginto com­. pare. their salaries to the ones that professional athletes receive. 
And what makes this gap all the more noticeable is that this isn't just· a .professional phenomenon ... In my high school. the best facilities and the most attention and appreciation were· given to the sports teams~ while the academic extra•curricular activities were given next to nothing. 
In college {read a place ofhigher learning), this differ· ence gets even worse. }{ow many people are given full college scholarships based solely on.merit (i.e, academic merit)? Very few thatI have heard about. On the other hand. I know quite a few people who have'receivedfull sports scholarships for their talent in athletics. 
I realize that the basic reason for this is that while sports players generate money through ticket sales, good students don't make any money for their school. We'll pay quite a. bit of money to watch Michael Jordan make a three-pointer. butwould anyone want to pay the same amount (or any amount, for that matter) to watch the Democrats.and Republicans battling over policy in the House? 
Probably not. 

That is why I've come to a solution: Turn the House into one big basketball court. charge admission, and have the Dems and the GOP battle out policy issues while trying to make shots-any kind of shots -from the court. 
And, hey, ifwe're lucky, we might even get Gingrich and Gephardt to bite each other's ears off. 
Nakasha A,hmad is a sophomore English major from Saint Mary's. Her column appears m.1ery other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author. not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• GuEST CoLUMN 
Bishops Send Wrong Message 
Editor's note: Father John 
Harvey, founder ofthe ho'!'osexual 
suppo:t group Courage, wtll be 
speakmg at Notre Dame on 
T'!-esday, Feb. 24, at 8 p.m. in the 
Ltbrt;zry Lounge. On Oct. 1, 19~7. the 
Natwnal Conference ofCatholzc 
Bishops' Com_mi~tee on Marriage . 
and :he Family zssu~d a let!er entz­
tled 'Always Our Chzldren. 
a~dressed to the ~ar~nts ?fpersons 
wah h?m~sexual mclmatwns. The 
followmg ts the pastoral response of 
Harvey. 
The ~astor~) mes~age "Always 
~ur Children man~fests compas­
s10nate understandmg of persons 
wit? homosexual t~n~encies .. and 
the~ parents and siblmgs. 1t_1s theo­
logically sound on the morahty of homosexl!al acts, and its broad me~sag~ IS that parents shout~ love their children who st~uggle ~th . homos~xual tendencies, whil~ not accep~mg homosexual beh~VIour. In a spmt oflove, howeyer,l feel I ~ust offer the fol~owm? observa­t10ns and suggestiOns, m the hope that our pastoral response can be strengthened. The use of the terms "gay" and "lesbi~m •." and .th~. di~tortion oft?e ter~ onen~atiOn giVe the public the unpress10n that the homosexual condition is fixed and permanent. There is much scientific and empiri­cal evidence to the contrary. Men and women. who sincerely desire to develop therr heterosexual potential should n~t.be in ignorance of the opportumties for help to move toward their God-given masculinity or fe~ini?i!Y· We do not say that every m~IVIdual who makes such an ~ffort wdl be able to complete the JOurney, but he should at least be given the knowledge that many peo­ple have been able to do so. In this 
effort: the prima~y goa! will_always 
rema~n the I?ra~tice of.mteriOr 
chastlty, w?Ich IS nothmg else but 
Gospel punty of heart. 
It is unadvisable for one to identi­
fy oneself as "gay" or "lesbian," 
moreover, because it gives the 
impression that one's homosexual 
orientation is his or her most impor­
tant characteristic. In this regard, 
the 1986 Letter from the 
Congregation for the Doctrine of the 
Faith ~ays th.at "the hu~an person, 
made m the unage and likeness of 
God, can hardly be adequately 
described by a reductionist refer­
~nce,to his or her sexual orienta­
tlon. . . . 
Sexuality IS a g1ft of God e~pressed in the u?itive and procre· ative good ofmarnage. The docu­ment "Always Our Children" very correctly points out that homogeni­tal behaviour is objectively immoral, because only in the two-in-one-flesh u.nion.of a man an.d .woman in mar­rtage IS sexual actiVIty moral, and because homogenital behaviour is not open to the possible creation of human life. The document also cor­reedy dis~inguishes. between homogemtal behaviour and homo­sex.ual orientation. In this regard, while the document correctly points ?ut th~t ~he h?mosexua~ orientation IS not. m Itself Immoral, It neglects to mentiOn that the homosexual orien· tation is objectively disordered (Congrgation for the Doctrine of the F?-ith, Letter to the Roman Catholic Bishops of the World, sect. 3). 
lnstead, it says that "sexuality is a gift from God" and then goes on to quote the Catechism of the Catholic Church, no. 2333: "Everyone... should ~ckn?w~~dge ~nd accept his sexual Identity. The Idea conveyed is that homosexuality is also a gift from God, and should be accepted ~one's fiXed and permanent iden­tity; howeve~. th~ actual quote from the Cathechism, Everyone, man and woman, should acknowledge and accept his sexual identity," is part of a paragraph describing the complementarity of man and woman in married life and in soci­ety. It is incorrect to use this quote as ajust~ficatton that one should accept his or her homosexuality as a fixed state or as a pBrmanent and defining "identity." With regard to sexuality, it is generally more accu­rate to speak of "sexual attraction" rather than "sexual identity." The conviction tpat a sexual attraction is a stable or fundamental dimension of one's personality" has no support from Catholic teaching. 
The 1986 Letter to the Bishops of 
F th
a er John Harve
J 
the Catholic Church on the Pastoral 
Care of Homosexual Persons (PCHP) _ 
warned that, in some cases, "an 
overly benign interpretation was 
given to the homosexual condition 
itself, some going so far as to call it 
neutral or even good. ".Homosexual­
ity, however, as the CDF has stated, 
is "objectively disordered" because 
it urges a person, not toward the 
inherent good of marriage and pro­
creation, but toward sinful conduct. 
The document "Always Our 
Children" in several places fails to 
make this clear, and may cause 
uninformed persons to conclude 
that homosexuality is a normal vari­
ant of sexual development, some­
thing which is contrary to the 
explicit statements in the catechism 
and in the Vatican pastoral letters 
of 1976, 1986, and 1992. 
The document quotes the follow· ing phrase: "homosexuals who are definitively such because of some kind of innate instinct," from the 1975 Declaration on Certain Questions Concerning Sexual Ethics. This phrase is an inaccurate trans­lation of the Latin quasi innatus, which would be better translated: "as ifinnate." The frrst Italian edi­tion of the Catholic Catechism which used the word "innate" in describ­ing the homosexual orientation was revised. Cardinal Ratzinger explained the reason for the change: "One objection was that we made people think homosexual ten­dency was innate, that it was already present at the moment of birth or conception of the person. Many competent experts said that this has not been proven." 
In addressing how a parent should deal with an adolescent who is confused about his sexual identi­ty, the document says, "If your son or daughter is an adolescent, it is possible that he or she may be experimenting with some homosex­ual behaviours as part of the process of coming to terms with sexual identity. Isolated acts do not make someone homosexual. Adolescence is often accompanied by anxiety or confusion about sexu­al identity. Sometimes the best approach may be a 'wait and see' attitude, while you try to maintain a trusting relationship and provide various kinds of support, informa­tion and encouragement." 
This "wait and see" attitude, how­ever, could be very dangerous. If someone is attracted to drugs or to alcohol, we do not accept that attraction as a given, or indicate that it is beyond their power to reject. The truth is that we are dealing with an objective disorder within the person. The parent should do everything possible to help the youth to move away from this particular attraction, and from the surroundings which encourage him to act out. If pastors are going to advise parents concerning homo­sexuality, they should remind par­ents that their first obligation is to protect the child from immoral and 
dangerous behaviour. 
Given the epidemic of sexually 
transmitted diseases, including HIV 
disease, among male homosexuals, 
advising parents to adopt a "wait 
and see attitude" to same-sex 
experimentation among adolescents 
is an invitation to tragedy. If the 
male child has been involved in 
homosexual behaviour, he ought to 
be immediately tested, because in 
several large cities, a significant 
number of youth who were involved 
in homosexual activity became HIV · 
positive. New studies show that 9 
percent of homosexually active 
males aged 20 to 22 are already 
HIV positive. The earlier a boy 
becomes involved in same-sex 
behavior, the more likely he will 
become HIV positive or infected 
with other possibly fatal sexually 
transmitted diseases such as hepati­
tis and human papilloma virus. The 
document seems to imply, more­
over, that "experimenting with 
some homosexual behaviors as part 
of the process of coming to terms 
with sexual identity" is part of a 
normal developmental process. On 
the contrary, adolescents should be 
discouraged from experimenting 
with illicit sexual behavior-
whether it be homosexual or bet­
erosexual-for such behavior is 
both immoral and futile. When 
seeking professional help, the par­
ents should choose a knowledgeable 
counselor who respects the moral 
teaching of the Church. 
The document's defmition of 
chastity is inadequate, moreover, in 
stating that "chastity means inte­
grating one's thoughts, feelings, and 
actions in the area of human sexu­
ality, in a way that values and 
respects one's own dignity and that 
of others." One can easily imagine · 
an argument that one can "inte­
gy:ate" the "thoughts, feelings, and 
actions" that stem from one's "innate" homosexual orientation "in a way that values and respects one's own dignity." Indeed the doc· ument seems to leave the field open for such an argument. This is clearly inferior to the defmition of chastity offered by the Catechism at 2337: "Chastity means the success­ful integration of sexuality within the person and thus the inner unity of man in his bodily and spiritual being. Sexuality, in which man's­belonging to the bodily and biologi­cal world is expressed, becomes personal and truly human when it is integrated into the relationship of one person to another, in the com­plete and lifelong mutual gift of a man and a woman." Why avoid such clarity in favour of such ambi­guity? 
When the document speaks of "the power and freedom of sexuali­ty" as "gifts of God," it would be helpful to show the relationship between freedom and truth, as our present Holy Father does in Veritatis Splendor, and contrast it 

• 
with the "slavery to sin" which is experienced by those who are trapped in the cycle of compulsive behaviour so prevalent among those who are involved in illicit sexual activity. This would be an opportu­nity to show how the power of grace can overcome any human weak­ness. As St. Paul tells us: "The tri­als that you have to bear are no more than people normally have ... You can trust God not to let you be tried beyond your strength, and with any trial he will give you a way out of it, and the strength to bear it" (I Corinthians, 10: 1 3; 1 Corinthians 6:9-1 1). 
While recognizing the hard work of the authors of"Always Our ChHdren" and the sense of compas­sion they conveyed, I believe that in the areas mentioned the document stands in need of substantive revi­sion. 

-----------------------------~------~~----~~----------------------------------~--------------------------------­
page 10 Tuesday, February 24, 1998
ACCENT 

-
• ACCENT ASKSw•• 

Do you thinl{ there should be a Blacl{ History Month? 

"Yes, I think so. It's a good idea to learn about other people's cultures as well as your own. Although I'd like to see other months focusing on other ethnicities as well." 
Sean Leonard Junior, St.. Edward's Hall 
"I think that there should be a· Black History Month to make sure people remember what important African-Americans have accom­plished in the past and present." 
Shannon Lacy Freshman, Cavanaugh Hall 


"I think there should be. It's a good way to raise awareness of the contri­
butions of black Americans. They are 
too often left out of our history books 
and classes." 
Justin Crawford Law Student, Fischer Graduate Residence 
"I don't think it's the ideal answer to the 
exclusion of the important history of 
African-Americans. I think black history 
needs to be incorporated into the overall 
curriculum so that it's more than just a 
month." 

Kelly Smith Junior, Off-Campus 


"Yeah, there's a lot of history to it and a lot of individuals who could have been forgotten that should be remembered." 
Raul Endara Sophomore, Knott 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
WB~ BIACB HI• 

• AccENT SPEAKS 
By NIKOLE HANNAH Accent Writer and ANDREA JORDAN Assistant Accent Editor 
N
otice anything about February except that the weather is unseasonably warm? It's Black History Month, but bet you could not tell. That is probably because just like most of black history, it is ignored by the majority of Americans. It's funny that everyone on this campus seems to know when it's Groundhog Day or Columbus Day among other insignificant holidays but Black History Month just passes this campus by like the wind off Lake Michigan. Could it be that this occurs because black people have no history or culture, or could it be because Blacks have historically been denied their rightful place in American histo­ry? 
One might ask why do we need a whole month for black history? They might argue, "If we have a Black History Month, what about a White History Month?" Let us contemplate this. The majority of holidays celebrated by white America in all actuality do not apply to black Americans. For instance, let's look at the holiday of Independence Day. For many Americans this is perhaps the greatest national holi­day that this country celebrates. This is the day when the liberty-loving colonists won freedom from the tyrannical rule of the British. 

Black Americans fought valiantly beside their white counterparts; in fact the first casualty of the Revolution was Crispus Attucks, a black man. Blacks fought with the hope that by fighting for their country they would be freed from the bonds of slav­ery. However, after the war was won by the colonists, these very whites who had risked their lives in the name of freedom, justice and liberty continued to enslave the same people who had helped them achieve this independence. Yet, Ameriea expects blacks to ignore this minor detail and celebrate the Fourth of July as if they had gained freedom on this day. The Fourth of July 
Photo courtesy of "Four Centuries of Black Life: African American History" s h 0 u 1 d n0 t be I0 0 ked up0 n Malcolm X by blacks as a day to be joy­

ous, but should be looked upon with disgust because it serves as a reminder of yet another time when their ancestors laid their Jives on the line for a freedom that they would not share. 
Okay, Independence Day, that is one holiday that is not much cause for celebration for blacks. Let's try Presidents Day. Presidents Day is a celebration of America's forefather5 George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. Arc they the forefathers of black people one may ask? Well, maybe Washington because he was probably sleep­ing with his slaves. But seriously, how can black Americans celebrate the very peo­ple who practiced and condoned slavery? It should be common knowledge that Washington owned slaves. "But what about good old Abc, he freed the slaves with 

h e 
Emancipation Proclamation," you might say. Yes he did eventually free the enslaved, but not in the Emancipation Proclamation, and when he did free the slaves it was for his own selfish purpos­es. He was a firm believer in the inferior­ity of blacks. T h e Proclamation only freed those slaves in states that had seceded from 
~ the Union and 
~ 
not those from 
Photo courtesy of "Four Centuries of Black Life: African American History" r C ffi a ine d in 

Marcus Garvey 
the Union. So, 

Tuesday, February 24, 1998 page 11
ACCENT 

ffOR~ MOH1H? 
in essence, he was freeing slaves under a foreign government. How could he free slaves that were not under his jurisdiction? Answer: He could not. He did not care if blacks were slaves, he just wanted to preserve the Union. It should be somewhat difficult for blacks to be jubilant about someone who kept their ancestors enslaved. By asking blacks to ignore these facts, America is asking them to disregard their heritage. Therefore, Presidents Day is yet another holiday that should be more painful for blacks than one that evokes pride and nationalism. 
For those of you who still believe that Black History Month-is not relevant even though many of these holidays could evoke feelings of pain and injustice for a large segment of the population, then why not explore other options for national holidays? By doing this maybe one's opinion will change when the shoe is on the other foot. 
Blacks are asked to ignore the racist sentiment underlying these holidays because they were good for the country. Are blacks not part of this country? Well, of course they are. Then why not celebrate days that were beneficial for them and their ancestors? For instance, how about Nat Turner Day? Turner was a slave who believed that God called him to lead his people from the bonds of slavery. He led an uprising and killed 55 whites before his battle for freedom was ended. 
Now maybe some blacks would view Turner as a hero because, just like the colonists in the American Revolution, he fought bravely for the liberty of his people. Under this context, these whites were just casualties that come with any fight for freedom. Or, maybe whites would view this event as a massacre, as it is labeled in history books, because it was their people who were killed. Everyone, at least one would hope, knows that slavery was wrong so this struggle against a practice so contradictory to the values of this country should be viewed with pride. But. it is doubtful doubt that there will be a holiday celebrating Nat Turner because it is unlikely that white Americans can look past the fact that whites were killed by black man, even if it was justified. Yet, America asks blacks to do this exact thing. 
Maybe Nat Turner Day is not palatable to some, but how about someone a little more modern, like Malcolm X. He was another great ·American her?, was he not? He inspired pride and unity in the black community. Malcolm X· advocated self­reliance in edu­cation, employ­ment and poli­tics. Yet, while he-. exulted the positive aspects of the black cul­ture, he also called white people "devils" and believed black people should separate themselves from the evil ways ways of these "devils." Why not have a holi­day for him, his opinions on whites should not overshadow all the positive things he did, 
just as people are expected not to let Washington's owning slav8s overshadow his great accom­plishments. . ~._-------------------:---------l 

There w iII be Illustration courtesy of "Four Centuries of Black Life: African American History" 
no need for Black History Month if America starts celebrating other great American people and events that are not just for whites such as Martin Delaney. Marcus Gatvey, and the passing of the 13th Amendment which abolished slavery (Black 
lhdependence Day). . 
Black History Month is not just a month isolated from the rest of America who is not black. Black history is American history. Blacks have been in this country as lollg or longer than any whites, they have fought in every war that this country has bf'l\!n engaged in -even while being denied the very freedom for which they fought. Black people are at the core of the very foundation of this country and have con­tributed many inventions, discoveries and literatures that have become what is knOWn as the American culture. 
Continually the achievements of blacks have gone unnoticed. For centuries their creativities and inventions were stifled and stolen by the whites who oppressed them. Without black history the true and accurate history of America cannot be told. Until this history is told then we must keep Black History Month to bring these pa~t and present struggles to light to acknowledge the many contributions of black!, irt this country. 
"Lift ev'ry voice and sing. I Till earth and heaL,en ring. I Ring with the harmonies of liberty; I Let our rejoicing rise llligh as the list'ning skies, I Let it resound loud as, the rolling sea ./Sing a song I full of the faith that the dark past has taught us. I Sing a song/ full of the hope that the present has brought us; I Facing the rising suh!Of our new day begun. I Let us march on till victory is won ... 
The Black National Anthem 
L iffIe-K11 ow11 Black f--lisfory Facfs 
By NIKOLE HANNAH Accent Writer 
*African coastal people were great navigators and had visited, traded with, and settled in indigenous communities in Central and South America hundreds of years before Columbus accidentally stumbled upon the shores. 
*Granville T. Woods invented railroad telegraphy in 1887 which allowed mes­sages to be sent between movirig trains, and from trains to. railroad statio~s. which prevented serious accidents and loss of life. He also mvented the thtrd rail systems used in subways in 1896, and automatic brakes in 1901. 
*Lewis Latimer patented a superior carbon filament for Edison's light bulb in 1882. 
*Garret Morgan invented the gas mask in 1914 and. the traffic light in 1923. 
*Dr. Percy Julian invented synthetic cortisone. 
*Dr. Daniel William performed the world's first successful open heart surgery in 1893. He accomplished this great feat without the benefit of X-rays, blood transfusion, and antibiotics because these had not been discovered yet. He also founded the first interracial U.S. hospital, and introduced the tr.aining of black nurses and interns ih the U.S. 
*Dr. Charles Drew perfected the technique of preserving plasma and made blood banks possible, saving thousands of lives during World War II. 
*York, a slave of William Clark, was the first to reach the mouth of the Colombian River in the Lewis and Clark Expedition. 
*Ethiopia is the oldest Christian nation in the world. 
*Kemet, meaning "black land," was the name of ancient Egypt. 
*Paul R. Williams designed the Grave of the Unknown Soldier. 
*Jean Baptiste Pointe du Sable was the first permanent settler of Chicago. 
*The 13th Amendment, to the Constitution abolished slavery in the U.S. in '1865, long after slavery was abolished in the rest of the Western world. 
*Matthew Henson was the first to reach the North Pole. 
*Pedro Alonzo Nino navigated the Santa Maria on Columbus' first voyage to the New World. 
*Thomas Jefferson had an affair with at least one of his slaves and fathered children by her. 
*Edward Bouchet was the first black to earn a doctorate of science. In 1816 he earned his degree in physics from Yale. 
*Alice ParkP-r received a patent for a gas heating furnace in 1918. 
*Ozzie Williams invented rockets, which allowed the Apollo 13 crew to steer its spacecraft safely t~ck to earth. 
*Dr. Benjamin Carson earned worldwide recognition for his part i~ the sepa­ration of siamese twins. The operation took five months of plannmg and 22 hours of actual operating. 
*Dr. Lucas Santomee became the first African American physician in 1667. 
*Slaves could not receive patents before the Civil War. Therefore. masters received the patents, giving many slave owners credit for inventions that they. did not invent. 
-
\

r 
Tuesday, February 24, 1998 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S SWIMMING 
Fourth place finish disappoints 
ByMATTYUNG 
Sporrs Writer 

After a long and fruitful journey. the Irish swimming team finally completed its 1997-98 season with the cul­minating Big East Championships in Pittsburgh. Entering the Big East Championships, the Irish had an outstanding 11-1 record in the regular season. their only loss coming at the hands of Texas Christian in early November. This was the team's best season since going 12-1 in 1989-90 and the sea­son's success carried over into the championship .meet. In each of their past two appear­
_i ances, Notre Dame finished seventh out of 13 teams, which was a higher finish that other teams expected. At this year's meet, however, the Irish caught everyone's atten­tion with their impressive fourth place finish. "The meet was a dream for us," head coach Tim Welsh said. "We were seventh the last two years and hoped to move up in the standings, but to move to fourth was a giant step for us. It took everyone to reach fourth." On Wednesday, the first day of competition, sophomore diver Herb Huesman placed fourth in the three-meter div­ing, scoring 480.75, finishing behind three Miami divers. Notre Dame's 200-medley relay (Chris Fugate, Steele Whowell, Rob Fetter, and Russell Preston) also earned a fourth-place finish with a time of 1:33.29, breaking the seven-year-old school recoFd of 1:33.49 and giving the Irish their highest relay finish in three Big East appearances. "It's been a really, really good season," said sophomore Rob Fetter. "We got a lot of wins, which is always a lot of fun. We'll train this spring and summer and get back into the swing of things and do pretty well next year." The 200 freestyle relay team (Mike Doyle, Ron Royer, Vince Kuna, and Ray Fitzpatrick) finished seventh in 1:23.54. Miami dominated day one with 121 points, but the Irish remained close in fourth place with 69 points. only two points behind second-place St. 
John's. 
On the second day of compe­tition, the 400-meter medley relay (Fugate, Whowell, Scott Zumbach, and Fetter) sped through the water in a 3:22;87 effort, breaking the five-year-old record of 
3:23.93. Fugate was instru­mental in the race, leading off with a school-record 100 backstroke time of 51.81. 
_ Later, Fugate would use his talents to place third in the 200 individual medley with a time of 1:51.18. Fetter fol­lowed in eighth place at 
1:54.00. In a familiar perfor­mance, Huesman finished fourth in the one-meter diving with 471.10 points, trailing only the Miami divers. Huesman, who will continue to train for the NCAA zone diving meet over spring break, was pleased wi.th the meet, "Hopefully it will be a good building block for the NCAAs." 
Senior Ron Royer finished 1Oth in the 50 freestyle in 
21.09 and another school record was broken when John Lubker powered to the wall in the 500 freestyle in a mere 4:31.41. 
''I finally got under 21 sec­onds," said Royer, who swam a personal best of 20.98 in the preliminaries. 
"This was a great night for us," said head coach Welsh. "Three school records fell and we are swimming extremely well." 
The day's strong perfor­mance moved the Irish past St. John's, but Pittsburgh overtook Notre Dame, keeping the Irish in fourth place. 
Friday's competition was intense, with the meet half over and each event becoming more vital to the team's finish. The 400 individual medley was one race in which the Irish collected a healthy serv­ing of points. Zumbach placed third and broke his own school record with a time of 
3:58.44. At his heels were teammates Ryan Verlin in fifth in 4:00.54, and Lubker in ninth in 4:03.20. The 100 breaststroke was another strong event for the Irish. Whowell finished lOth in 
57.41 and was followed by Dan Szilier in 13th with a time of 57.93 and Antonio Fonseca in 15th in a time of 58.25. 
Fugate finished ninth in the 100 backstroke and set a school record with a blazing 
51.55. The 800 freestyle relay (Royer, Wes Richardson. Brian Najarian, and Fitzpatrick) finished fifth in 
6:49.76. Fetter placed 14th in the 100 butterfly in 5L 30, Fitzpatrick placed fifth in the 200 freestyle with a time of 1:40.52, and Fugate and Preston finished eighth and 15th in the 100 backstroke with respective times of 51.55 and 53.32. Notre Dame again finished the day in fourth place. 
The final day of competition displayed a stellar perfor­mance by the Irish distancers. Lubker finished second in the 1650 freestyle and set a new school record. Lubker was closely followed by fresliman phenom James Scott-Browne in third place, Sean Casey in 13th, and Richardson in 14th. 
Fugate took 13th in the 200 backstroke and Fitzpatrick and Fetter placed 11th and 13th, respectively, in the 100 freestyle. The tandem of Szilier and Whowell placed sixth and 11th in the 200 breaststroke, and Zumbach and Verlin placed fifth and 1Oth in the 200 butterfly. The 400 freestyle relay (Royer. Preston, Fetter, and Fitzpatrick) placed 1Oth with a time of 3:08.91. 
With the best season finish 
for any current Irish swim­
mer, the Irish now have the 
opportunity to build upon 
their suc_cess with off-season 
training. Seniors Brian 
Najarian, Ron Royer, Steve 
Cardwell, and Slade Stolz now 
pass the torch to the rest of 
the team with undaunted con­
fidence in them and coach 
Tim Welsh. 
Royer. who attended high school with teammate Najarian commented, "Now. that's it's over, I'm just glad we could end with a success­ful season. In high school, we [Royer and Najarian] came into a not-so-good program, but left it with a champi­onship. The same type of thing happened at Notre Dame. When we came here, the program wasn't as strong as it is now, and it was a relief to come out the way we did my senior year." 

• WOMEN's COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Sales out for season 
;·:t:: 
with ruptUred .Achilles 
·::::::.:: . 
·. \Nhen she ipjured her f(}ot Saturday. Sales said she felt like smneone stepped on the hack ofber he~l, . t:,,, 
i ..J didn't think it was that bad." she said. "I wasn't in a . lot of p~in .. wnen Jwalked,it gave out. I was sort of in but l was a little 

W. 8-ball 
continued from page 20 
ing was our problem. though. They went to the free throw line a lot more than they need­ed to." 
Tonight's game will also mark the final time Peirick and fellow senior Kari Hutchinson will step onto the Joyce Center court as competi­tors. In the four years the class of 1998 has played for the Irish, they have compiled a remarkable 92-33 record and three postseason appearances going into tonight's contest with the Scarlet Knights. 
''I'd say all my thoughts right now are on Rutgers," Peirick remarked. "They embarrassed us when we went played them earlier this season. That's all . I'm going to be thinking about when we go out on the court, that I really want to pay them back." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day das­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Classifieds 
NOTICES THE COPY SHOP - Russian, 7 yrs exp. Rus. teacher for foreigners. Private & group lessons all levels & translations Yulia: 243-10791eave message  FOR RENT 2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR  I  FOR SALEI Mac PowerBook 190cs, 8/500.  colleen-I will soon find out if I am leaving and you know what that means ... This may be my last letter. it"s been fun no?  John and Caleb I am sorry that I forgot to include you yesterday!! remember, you guys are the cham­pions though john had more fun  
LaFortune Student Center  CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW &  $ 500. Call Leopold at 273 9275.  -don antonio  getting that title.  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  FALL.272-6551  p.s. RED  
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight  SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  PERSONAL  San Antonio-Thank God. I tire of these lovelorn  p.p.sW p.p.p.s.  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  child! Summer therapy camp for  ND-SMC EVENTS.  classifieds. I yearn for the day when  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  handicapped children. Located on  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  I can be a single city-state, unen- 
Sun  Noon -Midnight  shore of Lake Superior near Big  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  Ott-Broadway Musical at Notre  cumbered by dissatisfying alliances.  
CALL 631·COPY  Bay. MI. Positions available for  243·0658.  Dame? SEALOVE, MANAGER  -Los Angeles  you know what that means baby!  
Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  original musical direct from NY  
I  for Nature/ Arts &  ALL SIZE HOMES  Washington Hall  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  I'm charcoal.  
Students and Instructors wanted.  Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing/Kayaki  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Feb 26, 27. 28 @ 7:30  babbling brooks in summer.  
We are test running a new. two-day  ng. Nurses, Therapists, Food  232-2595  $7 ($4 students)  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire- Mmmm ... cuticles.  
seminar, the Winf\11/in Class, at no  Service, and Auxiliary. Must be  Buy Tix at Lafortune  place in winter. Love and joy for  
charge to you, designed to increase  enthusiastic, responsible, and love  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  your baby all year long. Happy, car- How do you like them apples? He's  
creative thinking, and improve rela­ children. Salary, room & board, and  219-291-7153  The Filipino American  ing professional couple would love  wicked smaht.  
tionships of all kinds. Call 243-8632  experience of a lifetime provided.  Student Organization  to provide a new born with love, joy  
for a reservation. Call or write for application and ILOST & FOUND I information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette. Ml 49855, (906)228­ NICE 3·4 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA !\lOATH OF ND 2773097  presents: !!FIEST ANG FILIPINO lVI! A Night of Filipino  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523 Over 100 single ND guys with pic- No races this weekend! Nooooooooooo! Spitz, HP & k  
LOST: GRAY WOOL "OLD NAVY" COAT AT O'NEILL DANCE ON SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL MONI­CA@  5770. Student Worker needed at the  New 5 bdrm, 2 bath home with LA, FA, outdoor deck, & 2 car garage within walking distance of campus. Has AJC, gas. heat, stove, refrig,  Food and Dance Sat. Feb.28, 6pm Stepan Center $5 stud. $7 GA  lures and profiles!! www.nd.edu/-ddesignslboxing Brought to you by Dome Designs. RENT 1628 PORTAGE '98-'99!  I love you guys. Schmoopie! -KK I don't wanna  
634-3948.  Office of Students with Disabilities  G/D, Df\11/, W & D. $1500 per mo.  234-383.1 I 273-0482  I don"t wanna  
for 1 hour a day  232-4527.  I don't wanna  
WANTED MODELS/DANCERS WANTED please call219·271-0633  (12:00 noon -1:00 pm) three days a week (T, W, Th) to answer phones and light office work. Please call 1­7157.  FREE SUMMER STORAGE '98-'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar. WID. V-Ball Ct. 1628 Portage. 234-3831 I 273-0482  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID-1/2 price field fee. 291-2540.  Los Angeles ­Remember the Alamo! And cut down on that smog. The Admiral will attack Shaq any day. Tu madre. -San Antonio  I don"t wanna It made me feel made me feel made me feel retarded retarded  

Tuesday, February 24, 1998 page 13
The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S GOLF 
Golfers turn in best performance in Irish history 
By GENE BRTAUK clubs to enjoy the wonderful nine of the premiere teams from Sports Writer weather. For the women's golf the Midwest. team, a trip to Arizon began the Notre Dame had a combined 
The feeling of spring in the air spring season. The Irish took score of 607 for the two days. means that many people \\ill be part in the Midwest Classic, a This put them in third place, six finding and dusting off their golf 36-hole tournament featuring shots behind Minnesota for sec-

Today, Tuesday, February 24, 1998 For time a11d location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDGl.S (;roup Advisors: Fr. Tom (~aughan, C.S.(~ 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, (:.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
or the I 998"'99 acad__............ You may pick up applica...."',....<:J> .•.. , Office of Student Activities, 
DEADLINE: FEBRUA 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
ond and seven behind first-place Northwestern. The 607 is the best 36-hole performance the team has had in its ten-year existence. 
"I am very happy with the per­formance of the team," said women's golf coach Ross Smith, "On the second day everyone played consistent and the girls all knew they had a shot at win­ning the tournament. It was just outstanding performance by this team." 
Sophomore golfer Andrea Klee commented on the second round, "We were all so happy. We all knew that we had these types of rounds inside of us. We just needed to put them all together at the same time." 
The first day of action saw the Irish come out rusty and slug­gish and resulted in them shoot­ing a 312 (+24). A few of the bright stars for the team on Friday were senior captain Katie King (75), sophomore Andrea Klee (78), and freshman Mary Klein (78). King's score put her in second place after day one of the event with Klee and Klein just out of 10th place. 
The second day saw a turn of events for the ladies. The rust that was present the first day had rubbed off and the Irish put together their best round ever with a seven-over-par 150. All but one Notre Dame golfer shot lower than 80, with four achiev­ing a 75 or lower. King contin­ued her outstanding play for the Irish shooting a 7 4 for combined score of 149 and a third-place finish. The five-over-par 149 is the best 36 holes King has shot in her career at Notre Dame, and the third place finish is sec­ond only to her second-place fin­ish at the Illinois State Classic last year. 
"I had the typical freshman adjustments to make when I came here, but once I got used to them and relaxed I was able to focus," commented Klee on her turnaround. "Plus, I worked on my swing and my game over the summer and it allowed me to straighten out some of the prob­lems I had." 
"I was very proud to see Andrea shoot the way she did," stated Smith. She struggled last year and it was good to see her make the adjustments and improve her game. I am con­vinced that she will continue to get better." 
1!1.1!1 
~ Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics ~ 
[!)·~[!) 
C.A.S.H. is looking for OFFICERS 
for next year. lt is agreat . opportuni~ to do service and get leadership experience 
at the same t1me! 
II,.EIES,.ED? Call Megan at 4-3849 or Kelly at 4-3391 

One Night Badminton Tournament 
Friday, February 27 
6:30 PM Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Register in Advance at RecSports Singles & Doubles Divisions Sign-Ups Begin February J7 Deadline for Entering is February 26 
a 

------~-~­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, February 24, 998 
• WOMEN's SWIMMING 
Take two: Women repeat at Big East Championships 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 

The 24th-ranked Notre Dame women's swimming and diving team lapped the competition in the pool this weekend on its way to repeating as Big East Champions. The Irish won in dominating fashion, capturing first place in 10 events and outscoring their closest oppo­nent, Villanova, by nearly 200 points. 
"It was really exciting to win by that much," commented Carrie Nixon. "It puts us as the leaders of the Big East, but makes our claim that much stronger." 
Senior captain Linda Gallo lead the way once again for the 
\._ Irish, winning three individual events. On Thursday, Gallo broke her own school record and posted a new meet record in the 500 freestyle with a time of 4:48, automatically qualifying her for the NCAA Championships. "Linda's just amazing and she's such a leader," said Nixon, who followed Gallo with a sec­ond-place finish in the 50 free. "Her win in the 500 inspired all of us to swim better." Nixon's second-place finish along with Irish victories in the 200 and 400 medley relays posi­tioned the swimmers in first place after two days of competi­tion. On Friday, sophomore Liz Barger picked up where the Irish left off a day earlier. Barger set a school record in the 100 butterfly (55.70) and earned NCAA consideration. Allison Newell finished just under a sec­ond later and captured third in the event. Nixon placed sixth. Gallo won her second event in as many days by setting a school, meet, and pool record, in the 200 frcestlye. Gallo earned 
NCAA consideration with her time of 1:49.44 and her team­mates followed closely behind as Kristen Van Saun, Katie Collins and Brenda Reilly helped the Irish capture four of the top eight spots in the 200. 
Sophomore All-American Shannon Suddarth was next up on the blocks for the women and had a tough act to follow. Suddarth proved she was up to the challenge by qualifying for NCMs and setting school, meet, and pool records in the 100 breaststroke (1 :02 .07). Brittany Kline finished fourth in the event. 
Tiffany O'Brien placed second in the 400 individual medley and Anne Iacobucci took fifth. The Irish closed the day with a win in the 800 freestyle relay and entered the final day of swim­ming with a 170-point lead. 
Saturday brought more indi­vidual success for the swim­mers, even though the team championship was already clinched. Gallo broke her own school record in the 1,650 freestyle and claimed her third individual event of the champi­onships. Suddarth was brilliant in the 200 breaststroke and qualified for NCAAs with her time of 2:13.99. Barger cap­tured her second event with a victory in the 200 butterfly 
(2:01.45) and O'Brien placed second in the 200 backstroke. 
Gallo's performance earned her women's swimmer of the meet honors and Bailey Weathers was named coach of the year for the second consecu­tive season. 
"Bailey does a great job," Nixon said. "This award is well­deserved. He pushes us really hard in practice and it pays off." 
The Big East champions will have their last chance to qualify for NCAAs at this weekend's Shamrock Classic. 


~(.4,tf, f.IAt~ QtA~~' ~ffttf, ~fVt-AitiA~~' 
~,4ftf, F,,~, ~,le4Alf Att~ FBBB Sf'UFF N£w ~rlEMllS Sfyl£. 
, 

. 1))~: *LITTER 8* 
DJFOMZ ~~~~ .•. ~t/si)' DJ FUNk~ FIRC ~~~ ~ .·· ~~ 
&e-t ec-141"-'e-c:-te-d! ... 
525 N. Hill St. 233-8505 

Tuesday, February 24, 1998 The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS page 15 
Going out on his own ... 
Kelly looks to end curse of split decisions 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ gets me, you know." interesting." 1996. "I thought anything could Pagano just wasn't following the Assistant Sports Editor In his sophomore year he took He made quite an impression happen." script." the 145-pound weight class on a as a first-year fighter in the 145-Kelly joined five other first­He came out strong in the first 
Split decisions haunt Fred split decision, but as a junior he pound weight class. Kelly quick­time boxers in capturing the round but tired early. Kelly Kelly. These words have lost on a split. ly found his way to the finals of championship in their weight barely escaped the third round brought elation and disappoint­He started boxing during his his class and was forced to face classes that year and caught the without stoppage. His once pow­ment to him in the past two sophomore year by enrolling in favored captain Andrew Dicello. eyes of the coaches and his fel­erful right had dwindled and the years, but this time he wants to the novice program, which is the Dicello appeared strong in his low boxers. amount of shots that Kelly took escape these terms in his final fall boxing program offered initial fights and no one expect­"The first year I kind of stum­drained him of power. In the appearance at the 68th Bengal prior to the Bouts. Kelly trans­ed Kelly to have a chance. The bled into it," Kelly said. "I was end, Pagano walked away victo­Bouts. ferred in from the University of finals of the 145-pound weight surprised to be the second seed. rious by a split decision. 
"When you say split decision, Dallas and previously had spent class proved to be a hard-fought I was surprised to fight as well As far as leadership goes, Ted Pagano comes to mind," a year at the University of win for Kelly. Yet the split deci­as I did against Dicello and the Kelly tries to lead by example in Kelly said. "That will always be Buffalo. sion took many spectators, along championship took me by sur­his daily routine. In addition to there with me. I was told later "What first attracted me to with Kelly and Dicello, by sur­prise." the 250 pushups and 500 sit-ups on that I ended up losing that boxing is that it is not a sport prise. His performance, demeanor which the group does, he does fight on the card -that I was found at too many places," Kelly "When I heard 'split decision,' and dedication to boxing landed anywhere from 100 to 150 more down by one point. It always said. "It is the pure and naked I wasn't sure," Kelly replied him a captain position for his pushups. Then he goes through 
competition which makes it so after his championship fight in junior season. Kelly gladly some glove drills and he will accepted the invitation to help spar or do drills with the mitts. aid the charitable cause. Bengal When all that is done, he runs 'f ' 
i
Bouts benefits missions in up to two miles and concludes Bangladesh and they serve as his intense workout with some the main form of funding for sprints. these charitable organizations. His primary role as captain is 
"I just want to try and help to assist the main captain, Ryan everyone when I can," Rans, in any way possible. "My remarked Kelly about being a job was to go around with captain. Tommy Will to sell tickets," 
After a year of being an Kelly said. "Ryan [Rans] comes unknown, Kelly found himself up with the main plan and we thrust into the top spot the next go with what he says." year. He advanced through the Rumors circulating through first round with a technical the boxing room hint that Kelly knockout of freshman Brendan is in his best shape yet and that Walsh. Then he easily cruised · he will go out with a bang. He through the semifinals by got started on his quest for knocking off Matt Remarge with another title last night when he a right cross just minutes into dismissed freshman Dennis the first round of the fight. Abdelnour with ease. These rounds did not fully pre­Kelly maintains that he will pare Kelly for the barrage of not take anything for granted punches which the second-seed­after last year's championshir ed Ted Pagano had in store for fight because he does not want him in the championship fight. to drop another decision. While 
"Last year after the first two Kelly savors his title from his fights, I thought that I was just sophomore year, he still has a going to walk all over this divi­bitter taste in his mouth from sion," Kelly said. "In the finals, last year's split decision. 



Charles Taylor's voice is one of the mosr resonant in contemporary philosophy, influential far beyond the boundaries of the discipline itself He is perhaps bes1 known for his magisterial Hegel and for Sources ofthe Self Th( Making ofthe Modern Idmtity. Long seriously engaged in Canadian political life, he has also written in recent years on the problems of federalism in a multicultural society 
Charles Taylor 
"Religion and Modernity" 
in the Erasmus Institute's Distinguished Lectureship Serw 
Thursday, February 26 4 p.m. -Hesburgh Cenrer Auditorium with a reception after dlt' I ecru n 
Followed br 
A Discussion with I\1r. Taylor Friday, February 27 10 a.m.-Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge 

Your potential is worth a lot m.ore. 
Freebies. Everyone is handing them out. Is that enough for you? We think you deserve more. 
And at Schwab, we've got a lot more to offer. We're investing in the potential of our people. Creating a powerful technology infra­structure. And providing visionary financial services. 
Which is not to say that if you want a new toy, you don't deserve one. We just thought a sound 
.J 
opportunity would be worth more. 
On-Campus Meet the Interviews Company 
will be conducted 
Presentation 
February 27. 
Thursday, February 26 Contact your 7-8 PM career center for Foster Room, more information. La Fortune 
Visit our new web site at: www.schwabcollege.com 
CharlesSchwab 


This is where you can do the best work of your life. 
Charles Schwab & Co.. Inc .. M<mbu SIPC/NYSE. F<bruary 1998. Equal Opportunity Employer. 






I i • l 

I 

High seeds leave no room for upsets 
I 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Ediror 

There was no suspense, no mystery,
'I and not one surprise. Indeed, every­thing went according to plan Monday night at the Joyce Center. 
Case in point: the 140-pound divi­sion.! Senior captain Sean Sharpe, fresh­
·f" p
:: man Mike Valle, junior Tom Cronley, il and sophomore Mike Maguire began the evening as heavy favorites, and
II 

n each boxer lived up to his ranking. All II H n four will move on to Wednesday's H semifinals, courtesy of unanimous­p n decision victories in the opening round 
I ' 

of the 68th annual Bengal Bouts. "I think we all just wanted to go out I and have some fun and let the rest 
take care of itself," said Valle. "YouII nq don't really know what to expect going I; in. Fortunately. it worked out the way
..!

l< we wanted it to." 
!i 

Valle, the lone freshman in theII group, advanced to the next round after defeating junior Sean Perkins in
II 

one of the night's most entertaining
I 

fights. For three rounds, the two box­
! 

ers went jaw-to-jaw with one anotheri in what turned out to be a true blood­fest. 
"He's a great fighter, and he kept the pressure on me the whole time," said Valle, who had never stepped into a ring prior to Monday. "I was ner­vous going in. It really feels good to get this one under my belt." 
The Observer/Patrick Quigley 


Sharpe, the top-seed in the 140-Mike Maguire (right), a heavy favorite in the 140-pound division, advanced easily over his opponent in last night's quarterfinals. pound division, easily advanced with a strong defensive effort against eighth­
ranked Guillermo Tijerina. Rounding necting with his jab against Kontz. sion, slipping past Daniel Gallegos in a Leatherby will meet in the other semi­
out the weight class were Cronley and Things do not get any easier for split decision. Altman's tremendous final match. Seerveld, who reached Maguire, who defeated Shay Boyle and McBurney with Lucas Molina anxious­height advantage and consistent jab the finals last year in the 125-poundMark Zavala, respectively. ly awaiting his challenge on enabled him to walk away with the division, will offer a new challenge for 
In the 135-pound division, junior Wednesday. victory in one of the night's tightest Altman. Tom Will and senior Lucas Molina "It [the Kontz fight] was a good matches. "He's about the same height as me,
received byes as the top two seeds in chance for me to gain some experi­"I had a definite height advantage, so that really won't help me againstthe class. Meanwhile, Camilo Rueda ence against a good fighter," said and I really think it helped me out him," said Altman. "I've got to come topped Jaime Garcia in a unanimous McBurney. "Now I have to get ready there tonight," said Altman. "It was out strong and be prepared for a diffi­
decision, and Matt McBurney knocked for Lucas [Molina]. He is one of the my first time to fight, so I needed any cult fight. He is a tough fighter, so I'll off Mike Kontz in another unanimous best fighters out there, so I know I've advantage I could get. I'm just really have to be ready." decision to advance to the semifinals. got my work cut out for me." excited to be in the semifinals." In the only fight in the 125-pound
Although it was his first boxing Another newcomer to Bengal Bouts, Altman will face top-seed David division, Patrick O'Shaughnessyexperience, McBurney looked like a freshman Matt Altman, advanced in Seerveld on Wednesday, while Martin advanced easily, defeating Nicolas seasoned veteran, consistently con-the only fight in the 130-pound divi-Garry and No. 2 seed Jeremy Schnabel in a unanimous decision. 
'I 
for Hovan to handle. Molloy's to put up a valiant effort experience showed in the against the experienced Rans
165-Lb. 
three rounds as he exercised but it was not enought as Rans 
I Bengal Bouts Semifinals

continued from page 20 patience in waiting for the per­won by unanimous decision. 
fect opportunity to catch Up next for Rans will be want that roundhouse coming Hovan with his guard down. Robert Alter, who dismissed at me," DeSplinter said. "He A more controversial fight freshman Josh Thompson in a 
IChip Farnel vs. Timothy DeFers 

frustrated me a lot." occurred in the 165-pound unanimous decision. 
~Brian Rigney vs. David frick ~John DeSplinter vs. Thomas Biolchini 

Biolchini did not hold any­division between sophomore Senior Norm Beznoska, who thing back in his first fight. He Robert Miyakawa and fresh­has not been in top condition jumped all over his opponent man Chris Muro. The crowd for training, delivered an 
IDavid Seerveld vs. Matthew Altman IRichard Malloy vs. Dave Remick

in the opening round. Senior felt that Muro had the win, but impressive performance in his 
~Martin Garry vs. Jeremy Leatherby ~Robert Miyakawa vs. James Sur

Daniel Toolan tried to shake the split decision favored first match. His fight had to be Biolchini's barrage but could Miyakawa. stopped with a minute and a not. Once Toolan backed Senior Jim Sur used his half remaining, due to a blow Biolchini into the ropes, but height and reach advantage to to the nose of his opponent, 
I Tom Will vs Camilo Rueda IRyan Rans vs. Robert Alter

Biolchini responded with a dismiss an explosive first-year sophomore Jeffrey Welsh. 
~Matthew McBurney vs. Lucas Molina ~Travis Alexander vs. Norm Beznoska

strong jab which knocked boxer, senior Fred Chiu. Chiu "I just came out fightingToolan down. showed no signs of intimida­righty." Beznoska said about "Keeping him away with my tion as he came out swinging his fight. "I threw in a coupleright seemed to work," in the first round but he tired of combinations and got him 
ISean Sharpe vs. Michael Valle IBrian Gaffney vs. Keith Parendo

Biolchini said. "I had trouble quickly and Sur took over. backed up on the ropes. A lot 
~Thomas Cronley vs. Michael Maguire ~Brian Hobbins vs. Chris Dobranski

throwing the upper-cut and I The highlights of the middle­of my hooks and upper cuts 
think I need to stay a little weights came in the 170-landed and they got him pretty more controlled. Next time, I pound weight class. Senior good."need to throw more combina­captain Ryan Rans found him­Beznoska appeared ener­
IJ.R. Mellin vs. Andrew Yang IMike Romanchek vs. Kyle Smith

tions." self in an unfamiliar position gized and ready to take on his 
~Dennis Joyce vs. David Murphy ~Joey Leniski vs. Daniel Prince

All the top seeds advanced in in his first round, on the defen­next opponent, freshman the 165-pound weight class, sive. Freshman Joe Kippels Travis Alexander. Alexander except for the fourth-seeded jumped all over Rans in the advanced over freshman Hector Pimentel. He fell victim opening round, throwing all Patrick Leis by unanimous 
IFred Kel~ vs. Jeevan Subbiah IDave Butz vs. Matthew Lubbers 


to the experience of sopho­kinds of punches at Rans. His decision. 
~Tom Owens vs. Stefan Molina ~Timothy Neagle vs. Andrew Hebert 

more Dave Remick by a split barrage caught Rans off-guard With only one day off to 
decision. and stunned him in the first. recover. the semifinals will be Top-seeded Richard Molloy Once again, experience pre­decided by one factor ­easily advanced over sopho­vailed over youth, as Kippels endurance. After a month and 
IMichael LaDuke vs. Jeffery Dobesh IDave Monahan vs. Andrew Riederer ~David Wiltse vs. Adrian Gardena ~Michael Romero vs. Peter Ryan

more Eric Hovan. Molloy's began to tire, Rans closed in a half of training, all should be lefts appeared to be too much for the kill. Kippels managed ready, but only time will tell. 
Tuesday, February 24, 1998 page 17
The Observer· BENGAL BOUTS 
• 145 TO 155-POUNO WEIGHT CLASSES 
Freshman Cardona dazzles crowd, opponent 
By MIKE DAY 
Sporrs Editor 
With his shoes laced up and his gloves strapped on, he entered the ring for the first time in his life on Monday evening. 
Although he had no boxing experience prior to last night's opening round at the Joyce Center, freshman Adrian Cardona was rewarded with the No. 2 seed in the 55­pound division for his remarkable tal­ent and hard work over the last six weeks. 
With all eyes glued in his direction, Cardona squared ofT with senior Brendan Reilly in what was perhaps the night's most anxiously awaited debut. Considering all the pressure that comes with being the sec­ond seed as a fresh­
man, Cardona did not disappoint. 
In fact, he thrived. The new­comer to Bengal Bouts pounded on Reilly for nearly a round and a half before the fight was stopped, and he was rewarded with a TKO victory. 
"My only fighting experience was in street fights," said Cardona. "It felt good to get out there and gain some experi­ence. I've got a long way to go, but this was a great way to start." 
Cardona's thundering right hook and lightning quick jab may have given boxing fans a sign of things to come in the future. In fact, four years from now, people just might look back to Feb. 23, 1998 as a day a star was born. 
175-Lb. 
continued from page 20 
who tried to combat Smith's controlled approach. "I tried to keep composed," said Smith. "(Paulsen) was a shorter fight­er, so I just let him come to me." 
Smith's unanimous decision victory in the 180-pound class sets up a Wednesday meeting with top-seeded Mike Rornanchek, who also happens to be his best friend in the club. 
"It's going to be tough on Wednesday," said Smith. "Mike's a real strong fighter, and he's one of my best friends here. We practice together all the time. 
"I'll be concentrating on fighting the same kind of fight. [My height) will be something that can work to my advan­tage. Right now my jab is my best punch, and that's what I'm going to be working on." 
Hometown favorite Joey Leniski (Mishawaka, Ind.) rode the vocal support of the crowd to a split decision win over senior Josh Akers in another 180-pound bout. Leniski con­trolled the center of the ring, cornering Akers on the ropes for much of the fight, although Akers landed a few hard shots of his own to keep it close. 
In the semifinals, Leniski faces Daniel Prince, whose accurate jabs and stamina car­ried the junior past Matt Hodgcrs. Two standing-eight counts spelled trouble for Hodgers early, but the senior fought back in the third round 


"I think I've made a lot of get frustrated toward the end progress since I started training because he started ducking out here," said the understated of my way and running away Cardona. "I don't want to get from me." overconfident, though. I've got Notre Dame law student a long way to go to get where I Jeevan Subbiah won the right to need to be." take on Kelly after earning a 
While Cardona was disposing split-decision win over sopho­of Heilly, the top seed in the more Stephen Locher. In the 155-pound class, Mike LaDuke, bracket's other semifinal, topped senior Noel Chakkalakal Molina, who bested freshman 
Steven Mehl in a unanimous decision, will meet surprise winner Tom Owens, who upended No. 3 seed Justin Kempf in one of the night's few surprises. 
As Monday illustrated, the
7:30p.m. 
145-pound class could be the Bengal Bouts' most competitive 
· The Observer/Brandon Candura 

division. With 
Second-seed Adrian Cardona lived up to his billing in dispatching

the possible
y8p.m. 
Brendan Reilly in less than two rounds last night. 

exception of 
in a unanimous decision. Other winners in the division were No. 5-seed Jeffrey Dobosh and No. 3 David Wiltse, who each advanced with split-decision vic­tories over Kevin Murphy and Daniel Bumpus, respectively. 
In the 150-pound division, top seeds Fred Kelly and Stefan Molina had little trouble with their opening round opponents. Despite a strong effort from freshman Dennis Abdelnour, Kelly advanced to the semifinals with a victory by unanimous decision. 
"After last year, I'm not taking anything for granted," said Kelly, referring to his surprise loss to Ted Pagano in the finals a year ago. "I was starting to 
as the two traded punches until the final bell. 
In the first of two 185-pound bouts, Fred Wulfs quest for a title ended just 16 seconds after it began. Senior Matt Lubbers landed a crushing blow to Wulf's head that caused an uncontrollable nose­bleed, halting the fight. 
"I was surprised and disap­pointed," said Lubbers of his short-lived Bengal Bouts debut. "I wanted to at least go three rounds in [the ring]. It was a shame it had to end this way, I think it would have been a good fight." 
Lubbers now faces top-seed­ed Dave Butz, who earned a first-round bye. 
''I'd say this is somewhat of a disadvantage because I really wanted to get in there and get comfortable with the atmos­phere, and maybe try some new things before Wednesday," said Lubbers. 
Tim Neagle also advanced to the semifinals in the 185­pound class with a unanimous decision win over Stephen Pfeiffer. Neagle's uppercuts made the difference in the slugfest, as the two fighters tried to overpower each other with brute strength. 
Heavyweights Felipe Reynoso and Andy Riederer squared ofT in the final quarterfinal bout, with Riederer coming away with a split-decision victory after pummeling Reynoso and forcing two standing eights to the delight of the thinning crowd. 
Hiederer now faces returning champion Dave Monahan in the semifinal round Wednesday. 
sophomore J .R. 
Mellin, who received an opening round bye, the rest of the class appears to be neck-in-neck in terms of tal­ent level. 
In the first fight, senior Andrew Yang pulled out a split­decision victory in a battle that could have gone either way. Meanwhile, No. 2-seed David Murphy lived up to his ranking on Monday, defeating seventh­seed Rick Johnson by unani­mous decision. 
"It's hard to explain, but for some reason, it's difficult going up against a lefty," said Murphy about Johnson. "You never really know what to expect. Fortunately, I was able to come away with a victory and move Biggest Surprise No. 6 Tom Owens vs Justin Kempf on to the semifinals." Owens by unanimous decision 
The Observer/John Daily 

In the 180-lb. weight class, Kyle Smith advanced to the semifinals, defeating Brendan Paulsen. 
,..----------­
· page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
~~--­
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
Irish netters have mixed results at Nationals 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 

The women's tennis team had a chance last weekend to see where they match up with the best teams in the country. The result -they proved that they deserve to be mentioned with the best. 
Sixteen of the top 25 teams in the country were in Madison, Wis., to compete in the National Team Indoor Tournament. The Irish finished the weekend with a 1-2 record, which included two close losses. 
On Friday, the 15th-ranked Irish lost a tight 5-4 match in the first round against Vanderbilt University. The Commodores were the 16th­ranked team in the country prior to the match against the Irish. The top three singles players all scored victories for Notre Dame. Junior Jennifer Hall scored a 6-3, 6-1 victory over Kristy Blumberg at first singles. Hall is ranked 19th in the latest Intercollegiate Tennis Association singles rankings. At second singles, freshman Michelle Dasso won 6-4, 6-1 over Julie Ditty. Dasso is cur­rently 27th, while Ditty is 46th in the country. Third singles player Marisa Velasco rallied from a first-set loss, to beat Callie Creighton, 4-6, 6-1, 6-0. Dasso and Velasco also teamed up at second doubles for an impressive 8-0 shutout of Staci Ryan and Kristen Radford. 
Notre Dame dominated 17th­ranked South Alabama in the consolation round on Saturday. All five singles players won in straight sets. Tiffany Gates and 
I 
i 
! 
' 
! f 
Kelly Zalinski avenged close three set losses against Vanderbilt with impressive vic­tories at fourth and fifth singles, respectively. Gates, a senior, beat South Alabama's Gaelle Gouttefarde 6-3, 6-4 while sophomore Zalinski blanked Melanie Pieterse, 6-0, 6-0. The doubles matches were not played because the Irish were already ahead by an insur­mountable 5-0 margin. 
With the win over South Alabama, the Irish advanced to take on 9th-ranked Mississippi. Mississippi boasts a strong line­up which includes two of the top 15 players in the country along with other solid players. Earlier in the tournament, Mississippi beat second-ranked UCLA 5-4. The two teams split the singles before Mississippi won the two doubles matches to record a 5-3 victory. 

The Notre Dame women's tennis squad rebounded from a loss to Vanderbilt with a 5-0 victory over No. 17 South Alabama. 
Most Affordable Student Housing 

Taking Applications for the '98..'99 School Year Ask about our Summer '"r...-:uu• 
Jennifer Hall scored an impressive victory over Agnes Muzamel. Hall improved to 18­7 on the season with a 6-4, 7-5 win. This was the second time this year that Hall upset the third-ranked Muzamel. In late January, Hall beat Muzamel to advance to the quarterfinals of the individual national indoors. Michelle Dasso posted another 
A p p 
L 
I 
c 
A 
T 
upset at second singles, defeat­ing 14th-ranked Ivana Mihailova, 6-2, 6-3. Fifth singles player Kelly Zalinski beat Mariana Eberle 6-4, 6-3. 
The 7-2 Irish play host to Big East rival Syracuse on Friday. They host Minnesota and Kansas at the Eck Tennis Pavilion on Saturday and Sunday, respectively. 
pick up the applications in the SUB office. If you
I 
have any questions, cal 0 the SUB office-1-6171 
N 



''Winning is not a sometime thing; it's an all-the-time-thing. 
~~·-..<'\..~ . 

You don'ttvin o~ce;in~a while, you don't do things right once in a while.,... you do them right all the time. Winning is a habit." 
. . . : -·--: ::::~~::::· ·i~~(: 

..;. Vince Lombardi 
At DC,Sx§tems, we make your continued education one of our 
:.:~::~.--: · .... :.... 
·. --:::::i§:::gm:;:r:::>: 
habits. ·K~~ping up with change is the only way to keep on top · of the ind'tstry. We have every intention of remaining on top. So should you. 
Meet DC Systems on March 3rd at 7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Foster Room Refreshments provided • Interviews March 4 & 5 

IC IYITEMI 
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT 
IC IYIHMI DC IYIHMI DC IYITEMI 
SOFTWARE CONSULTING EDUCATION 

Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 


Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE • 

Lt As T 
A 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 

DILBERT 
SCOTT ADAMS 
Athens competitor34 Popular candy bar 37 Tinted 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 38 Artificially made are available by touch-tone phone: 
to look old 1-900-420-5656 (75e per minute). 39 Pasta favorite Annual subscriptions are available for the 40 Trounced, in best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
button sports 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

WOULD YOU LIKE iO 1"'\~K.E. $1,000 PEF\ MONTH fOR 
A WHOLE YEAR? 
Aries:Listening to advice 
gets ~'our further today than 
following your headstrong 
ways. Others are capable of 
coming up with good ideas, 
too. Friends have a big influ­
ence on your day. 
Taurus:You may be faced 
with disillusion or disappoint­
ment today. Even though you 
have been working hard, it is 
still insufficient. It is too easy 
to become impatient with oth­
ers who do not understand 
your problem. 
Gemini:Motivational speak­
ers and surrealists alike can 
expect a wonderful day. Plans 
and visions fill your head, 
some of them strange, all of 
them possible. You are 
allowed to take back what you 
said yesterday. 
Cancer:You can only hide for so long before you have to come out and face the music. Something you have been dreading may not be so bad after all. Ignore your feelings and lead with your thoughts. 
Leo:Your chances for suc­cess are excellent, but so is the possibility of sabotaging your own efforts. Competition may lead to your downfall. Be satisfied with what you get today. 
Virgo: If you are stuck today, this may be a good time to help others. A change in the weather finds you improperly dressed. Take extra vitamins to keep up your resistance. 
ptpgram ·.. ·.. ··. .Sonata. 

Beethoven; Praeludiurn• Chorale and Fuge by Franck; Three. Preludes by GershWin; a<Jn "The great gate of ..!<i~X7:,...f'Jj9m picturesat at).tExl}i})ition by Moussorgsky, T}iij"fec~tal1s tr~~ ll~d OJX'n {(}the public~ Call63T.. 620lfor more information. · 
Martha Merritt will speak today at 12;30 p.m. on D~mocracy witboyt Accountability; The Paradox of Institutional Reform in Russia in room C~103 of the Ji~sb!Jrg~ Center for InternationalStudies. 
Nj\ j{~~ Green ~all will be sbo\'\'tpg .~night at 7 p~m. 
· in)~he·.·Hesburgh Center Auditorium. This break­through filmbased on the director·s experience~ of ho-mesteading i~ the Peruvian jungle has been " 
~~·~ih Biscuits Ham/Cheese Hot Wrap 
The Observer is looking for a sports copy editor. Call 1~4543. 
Libra:You know what you want as soon as you see it. If you are smart and brave, you will go forward and claim what you discover. Romance and treasure hunting are favored activities today. 
Scorpio:The environment around you is a single living organism that does not appre­ciate your interference. Try not to make any ripples today. much less waves. This is a bad day to engage in personal combat. 
Sagittarius:Once' you get started on a topic close to your heart. you have a lot more to say than you realize. Your sudden expertise makes a pos­itive impression on others. Everyone is an optimist today. 
Capricorn:Not everyone shares your sense of responsi­bility. This may be because not everyone is as invested as you are. You may have to change your expectation~ of others if you wish to work with them. 
Aquarius:Whether or not you started it, you are at the center of all the action today. If you want attention, that's just what you will get. Your exploits take on a mythical quality at this time. 
Pisces:You seek tranquility in a world that is anything but tranquil. Unplug yourself from the system and find a place to meditate. Doing nothing for awhile is just what the doctor ordered. 
\< •· • .· .. Major (Opi 110)by 
~ 

.... 
... 
' 

• 
-


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 ~~de Boulogne (Paris park) 
5 Constant complainer 9 Excite, as interest 14 Ancient inscription 15 Daughter of Cronus 1& Pluck 17 Start with boy or girl 
18 "The jig--'" 
19 Much-played part of a 45 
20 Led Zeppelin hit, 1969 
23 English-­
24 Rocker Garcia, informally 
25 Big Blue 
26 "--Yes!" (old political placard) 
2&Jewel 30 Classic clown 32 It comes after 
Mardi 33 Gagging cry · 35 Actor Beatty 36 Make out 37 Midgame 
broadcasts 42 Inch, e.g. 43 "Pish posh!" 44 Part of an 

academic yr. 45 Sicilian spouter 46 McDonald's 
founder Ray 48 Dance version of a pop song, 

e.g. 52 "Comprende?" 53 Clump 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
:::E 
0 

SEND $1:31000 
(.) 
0 ~ 

fOR COI"'\PLETE. 
@"' 

INfORMATION
rJ) 
:::E 

ABOUT DOG{)E.RT
Q 
"' 
... 
"' 
... 

NO-LOAO fUN05. 
0 
(.) 
rJ) 
54 Make sense, with "up" 56 British verb ending 57 Alternative to a Whopper 61 Deceit 62 Engagement gift 63 Waters: Fr. 64 Part of a furniture joint 65 Pins and needles holder 66 Fair distance 67 Works with words 68 Do carbon­testing on 69 Table scraps 
DOWN 
1 Barroom fights 2 Do better than 
at bat 3 Altogether 4 Whiskered 
circus animal 

22 Homes s Its capital is 
27 Questions
Santiago 

29 First-term 
& Soak up again 

Clinton victory 
7 In--(stuck) 

31 "... and-­
8 Saint John, for 

grow on" 
one 

32 Treasure­
9 Sacred song 

hoarding dwarf 
u 
c 
.! 
u 't1 
" 
c
,.. 
rJ) 
~ 
" 
:. 
41 Hidden 53 Brown 
47 Screw backer songbirds 
49 Any point in a ss Cowboy's stray trapeze artist's sa Tons routine 59 Meter maid of 
so Tristram's love song 
51 Persian king 60 Verne captain who destroyed &1 AT&T 

•

Intramural DlADLI~l~: february 26th 
lnterhall Womens Soccer Campus Soccer Tournamenl132team limiu 
-
lnterhall SoRbaiiiMens&womens DIVIsionsJ 
For More Info. Contact: 


Grad/Fac/StaH Softball 
RecSports-1-6100 
• 
www.nd.edu/-recsport

CoReclndoorSoccer 
Register at RecSports, Now located in Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 



---------~-----------------~--------------------------~--------------~----------------------,~ 
. 


f I 
\ 
l 
l 
I 
I 
I 
~ l 
l } 
..
II 
\' 
I I 
,. 
I'· 
1 11 
,, 
,. 
l)i 
I 
' 
'·· 
J, 
,I 
I· I' 
I 

t 
',I 
'! 
'\ 
I
''iI 
t 
j. 
','­
' . 
SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, February 24, 1998 
N({]AIL 1E(())l!J1r~ 
Bouts start 1Nith a bang 
Farrell, Molloy advance easily over competition 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistanr Sports Editor 
Last night, loads of young, talented fighters were looking for their time to steal the show. They did not. 
In the opening round of the 68th Bengal Bouts, the majority of the top seeds advanced with ease. ln the 160-pound weight class, senior and defending champion Chip Farrell advanced to the semifinals by unanimous decision over Robert Vuolo. 
"I was hoping to get in a good fight," Farrell said. "I wasn't going out there to beat anyone up. Mostly, I just wanted to work on my fundamentals." 
While Vuolo had the height advantage, Farrell managed to land the majority of his combinations, along with a strong right cross which knocked Vuolo to his knee. 
"My jab was working well," Farrell said. "Throwing hard rights was working too." 
Farrell will take on fifth-seeded sophomore Timothy DeFors. DeFors relied on his strong right and his sheer power lifted him to a win over sophomore John Berry by split decision. 
In the lower half of the 160-pound weight class, the No. 2 and No. 3-seeds easily advanced. Sophomore Tom Biolchini and junior John DeSplinter will meet in the semis in what promises to be one of the top fights on Wednesday night. 
DeSplinter faced some spirited competition in junior Dennis Jovellanos. His wild tech­nique almost pushed DeSplinter out of the ring. 
"He slowed down my jab because I didn't 
see 165-LB. I page 16 
• WOMEN.S BASKETBAll 
Irish end regular season at home 
By BILL HART Sporrs Writer 
The Fighting Irish women's basketball team hopes to end the regular season on a posi­tive note at 7 p.m. tonight, when it faces off against con­ference rival Rutgers in the final home game of the season. 
Even though a game between two of the top teams in the Big East is notable on any particu­lar day, the fact that two mem­bers of the Notre Dame squad will take the floor of the Joyce Center for the final time makes the contest vn more memorble than it would be otherwise. 
The Scarlet Knights are on a 10-game win streak after a 70­56 victory over Pittsburgh on Wednesday and a dramatic 57­54 win over Boston College on Saturday. Against the Eagles, sophomore guard Shawnetta Stewart hit a 50-foot jumper as the clock expired for the home win. The victory secured the Big East 7 regular season divi­sional title for the Knights, as well as the No. 2 seed in the 

vs. Georgetown,
@M 
®w 
Tomorrow, 9 p.m. vs. Rutgers, 
., 
Today, 7 p.m. Baseball vs. Western 
Michigan Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 
Big East Championship. Against Pittsburgh, Rutgers hit six of seven three-pointers in the first half to build a 33-24 lead at the intermission. Stewart had an all-around per­formance with game highs of 20 points and eight rebounds to go with two assists and three steals. Junior guard Tomora Young scored 16 points, including four shots from long range. 
"They're a very feisty _team," senior guard Mollie Peirick said about the Scarlet Knights. "and an athletic squad. They're just a really tough team, especially when it comes to rebounding." 
Rutgers can boast of one achievement that no one in the Big East has been able to duplicate this season. Earlier this year, the Scarlet Knights handed Connecticut its first conference loss in over two years, defeating the Huskies at home 74-70. In that game, freshman guard Linda Miles tallied 18 points and 11 boards while Young scored 17. 

The Observer/Brandon Candura Fred Kelly had no problem advancing to the semifinals, defeating Dennis Abdelnour in the 150-lb. quarterfinals last night. 
Ho~ever, the Knights will possibly face an even more dif­ficult task when they face off on Notre Dame's court. While at home this season, the Irish have all but dominated the Joyce Center floor, winning their past 10·games and sport­ing an 11-1 home record. 
The Irish hope the friendly confines of home will help them rebound from a 73-61 loss to Connecticut on Saturday. In one of her strongest efforts of the season, sophomore Niele Ivey led three players in double figures with 20 points, while Peirick and junior Sheila McMillen had 10 and 12 points, respectively. However, the loss was the team's third straight on the road. 
"We just have a lot of youth on our team," head coach Muffet McGraw remarked on the performance. "We had the lead late in the half, but they got four free throws and later took the lead. I think the foul-
see W. B-BALL I page 12 
vs. Wisconsin

,;:~ February 28, 1 p.m. aJ 
vs. Minnesota,

.e ••--= 
..,. February 28, 9 a.m . 
~ 

i,. vs. Northern Michigan 
~ 
February 28, 7 p.m. 

_;:, "· 
~ 
175-lb. division has its share of surprise results 
By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 

Maybe it was the argyle socks or the noticeable absence of his constantly bobbing ponytail, but whatever it was, Brian Gaffney took only one minute and 27 seconds to dis-l pose of freshman Eric Saul in the first bout of ~~~ the 175-pound class last night. ! 
"This (fight) was good for me," said Gaffney. "The big thing was that I got the nerves out, and remembered 'I can do this. I've done this before.'" 
The usually free-swinging Gaffney came out under control, utilizing a straight jab and his height advantage to dominate Saul in the ring. 

"This was one of my better fights," said Gaffney. "I found t-hat the straighter my punches, the more effective they were." 1! 
The win sets up a semifinal-round match-! up with sophomore Keith Parendo, who used a barrage of punches to wear down Chad Maestas. Parendo kept Maestas on the ropes I, for the first two rounds, and staved off a 11 valiant comeback effort by the freshman in 11 the final round to win. ! 
Fellow freshman Brian Hobbins, seeded ! sixth, earned a split-decision victory over· ,. third-seeded Jack Barber to earn a spot in 
. the semis against senior Chris Dobranski. I Dobranski landed a majority of jabs to Josh Nelson's jaw, drawing two standing-eight counts in the final rounds of the split-deci­sion win. 
Sophomore Kyle Smith used a decided height advantage to defeat Brendan Paulsen, 
see 175-LB. I page 17 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum Danielle Green fights for a shot in Notre Dame's last home game, a 80­54 win over Georgetown. 
•Women's swimming wins Big East 
see pa.ge 14 
•The Oberver covers the Bengal Bouts Quarterfinals 

see pages 15-17 




