
Wednesday, February 25, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 99 " THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND students 'speak out' about policy toward Iraq 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
More than 50 students, facul­ty and community members braved the 42-degree tempera­tures last night to voice their discontent with U.S. policy toward Iraq in a "speak out" held on the Fieldhouse Mall. 
"The United States moves unilaterally," argued Betsy Erbaugh, a graduate student in peace studies. "The U.S. has made it clear that it will go on with whatever it wants to do regardless of what the U.N., the international community or Americans think." 
She further commented that the U.N.-imposed sanctions are harmful to a majority of the Iraqi people. To illustrate her point she cited a statistic that attributed 200,000 deaths to the actual Persian Gulf con­flict. 
However. she claimed that one million people have died as a direct result of the sanctions. 
The rally, which was regis­tered in the name of graduate student Aaron Kreider, pro­ceeded informally with seconds of silence between speeches and no list of speakers. 
Anne Monaghan, also a 
Speaker believes in cure for homosexuality 

By ALEX ORR 
News Writer 
The pathology of homosexu­ality is treatable through Christian love and community support, or at least according to Father John Harvey, the founder of Courage, an organi­zation for the treatment of Catholic homosexuals. 
In a talk given last night, which was part of the Maritain Center's lectures on the issue, Father Harvey began by outlin­ing the position of the Catholic Church regarding homosexuali­ty. 
"The Church teaches on the basis of Scripture and natural moral law that homosexuality is immoral. Homosexual activity is never moral. That is what the Church teaches in its docu­ments," said Harvey. 
lie then went on to cite Genesis and the gospel of Matthew, drawing parallels between the Old Testament writers and the words of Jesus 

peace studies graduate stu­dent, related the situation in Iraq to that in her home of Northern Ireland. 
"The United States' policy is discriminatory," she said. "I know, because in Ireland, the policy is completely biased towards the Catholic Nationalists. 
"The Protestants tend to feel like they are being discrimi­nated against. I think that it is promising and great that the 
U.N. seems to have reached a deal in Iraq, but the U.S. has to respect that." 
T.J. Vanderbeek, a fresh-mlln, spoke up as the 


voice of dissent in the rally. Vanderbeek, whose father is in the Army, was asked to come · to the microphone as a differ­
ent point of view. 
"This is an ongoing situa­
tion," he said. "It would have 
been something if Saddam 
Hussein had never used biolog­
ical weapons before, but he 
has. 
"I have a friend in Israel, 
who I just talked with last 
week," he added. "She told me 
that she is getting fitted for a 
gas mask. 
see IRAQ I page 4 
that indicated a heavenly sanc­tion of the relationship between males and females. 
Harvey noted that "whenever God wants to express love for an individual soul, He uses lan­guage of heterosexual love, like the bridegroom. Christ loves the Church as a man loves his wife." 
He added that "homosexuality in the Old or New Testament is always condemned." 
Father Harvey backed this biblical base up with the argu­ment of natural law, and the awkward physicality of certain homosexual acts. "There is no true union," he pointed out. 
"It is a violation of the body's structure. No one talks about it, but anal intercourse is simply a pathological act. And the act is immoral." 
Though the church is the first to condemn this sort of back­ward sexual activity, it has dis­tinguished over the years 
see LECTURE I page 6 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Father John Harvey speaks about homosexuality in a lecture held yesterday. 
Right President Clinton's offi­cial statement on the Iraq con­flict based on the agreement between the United States and Iraq. 



ND architecture team to attend world engineering conference 
Fifth-year students gain national recognition for 'kinetic skyscraper' 
By Ml\RY ZAKAS News Writer 
A Notre Dame architectural team has been invited to a world conference in Kyoto, Japan, to share its original design for creating "super-tall" buildings. 
Fifth year architecture students Shelley Hoenle, Geoffrey Locksmith, Christopher Podstawski and Jennifer Rice have been working on a "kinetic skyscraper" design with associate professor 1-Kwang Chang and professor Bob Amico since last fall. 
The idea behind-the design is to con­struct a building within an aerodynamic "foil" that rotates with the wind in order to keep the building from swaying back and forth, as existing tall structures do. The foil is supported by a circular cage that surrounds the functioning structure. 
This method of construction, the team argues, would reduce the wind's effect on a building to virtually nothing. The use of a foil would also allow the functioning structure to be almost any shape. 
"I believe this project leads to the re­
thinking of the way buildings are made," said Hoenle. 
This plan, which was Chang's concept origi­nally, has now been recognized on an international scale. 
The Second World Conference on Structural Control in Japan, typically a gathering of engineers, has invited the Notre Dame archi~ tectural team to lecture on its kinetic sky­scraper concept at the conference this sum­mer. 
However, the whole group may not be able to attend the conference due to a lack of 

Kinetic Skyscraper 


funding. 

"It isn't often that an undergraduate pro­ject is given such significant international attention as is the ease with the kinetic sky­scraper," said Hoenle. 
"Being recognized on an international level is an honor to our school and the University." "The project brings a breadth of scope to the architecture school," said Locksmith. 
"This proves that we are capable of other things, as well as designing traditional archi­tecture." 
..'" .. • • .. • f •• 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



Change it 
Many have heard the old adage, "Those who Spencer Stefko can, do, and those who Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
can't, teach." Notre 
Dame attracts many students "who can." 
Notre Dame, however, doesn't even have an 
education department (I suppose that is a 
commentary on the market for $25,000-per­
year job training that yields a $20,000-per­
year job). Many feel they shouldn't teach, as 
they must spend all their college education 
taking "education" classes. What if that 
weren't the case? 
What if each state recognized that all 
classes taken in college are education class­
es? That each teacher, in lecture, either 
teaches how to teach or how not to teach? 
(Here's a tip: if your professor is so interest­
ing that you're reading my column during 
class, that would fall under the category of 
"teaching how not to teach.") It seems to me 
that, after majoring in history or math in 
college, one would have both the knowledge 
of history or math to teach those subjects, 
and a feel for what works in teaching it. 
It also seems to me that the classes essen­
tial to tBaching could all be squeezed into a 
summer. Maybe a psychology course per­
taining to the age group you intend to teach. 
An ethics course, I suppose. And maybe a 
few of what are now generally called educa­
tion classes. I could see one being prepared 
after four or live years of a subject and a 
summer of polishing one's teaching skills. 
With the well-documented breakdown of 
the American family unit, one is left to won­
der where America's youth is to look for role 
models. Sport? No, they,'re entertainers, not 
role models. Politics? Yeah, right. Interns? 
Then where? 
The answer may be the classroom. 
Imagine actually wanting to go to high 
school. Instead of going to school for eight 
classes with career teachers, one could go to 
school for dass with three or four of those 
teachers and class with four or five of these 
new type of teachers. Outside of the class­
room, where today's society tells us we need 
the most help, these new teachers would 
more than make up for what they may lack 
in the classroom. They would provide new 
ideas and energy. They would be more 
approachable, more prone to coach, more 
willing to sit around and talk with students. 
This is not to say that older teachers can't 
connect with students, so put down your 
angry quill and hear me out. Career teach­
ers would be needed. Three needs that 
immediately come to mind are the needs for 
wisdom, mentoring, and stability. 
Students would do this, too. This is a 
chance to "give back" like our society says 
one should, an opportunity to "lind oneself"' 
and figure out what one wants to do before 
the demands of family start pushing down. 
And, contrary to popular belief about the 
value of youth on the job market, it would 
actually make one more mature, and, logi­
cally, more marketable at, say, age 30 or 31. 
Institutions must adapt to suit the chang­
ing needs of society. Many would agree that 
society has changed since the 1950s. But our 
educational systmn has not. The restoration 
of family values is a nice cause, but instead 
of lamenting the fact that those days are 
over, it seems to me we should do something 
about dealing with the change. The educa­
tional institution is one that could help solve 
many of the problems that plague today's 
youth. And Bill Clinton would no longer need 
to be a role model. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sarah Hiltz  Rachel Torres  
Kristi Klitsch  Nora Meany  
Sarah Dylag  Graphics  
Brad Prendergast  Jon King  
Sports  Production  
Brian Kessler  Mike Day  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Tara Churik  Joe Stark  

The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during cxam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
------------------------~ 
Wednesday, February 25, 1998The Observer· INSIDE 

(-~~1>utside the Dome 
~v-·4'""'--'\, 

· J Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Official fires UW sophomore for 'inappropriate' comment 
MADISON, Wis. 
Solie, though she would 
Jenni Cole-Opitz learned not cite the exact t·ule an important lesson Feb. Cole-Opitz broke. 18 -don't joke with the In a letter Cole-Opitz almighty of Wisconsin pol­read to The Herald -her itics. lawyer asked that it not be 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWcather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Feb. 25. 
Lines separate high temperature zones far the day 
_,. .............................. 
~''\............ 
H L 
I 
Wednesday ~ 51 32 
! 
I 

Thursday ~ 48 34 
! 
I 


Friday I ~ 45 35 




...............
39 35 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc.
r: 

Pressure 
H L 53 E:;Sj [I] 0 . ~ 8 1:) ~Li
40 33 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY Vta Auoaaltn1 P,.u 
q,~,~4~8-!) Showers T·sforms Rain Flurries Snow fee Sunny Via Associated Press Graph1csNer  ~ u Pf. Cloudy Cloudy  Atlanta Baltimore Chicago Columbus Dallas  70 56 53 57 72  40 39 32 31 61  Eugene, Ore. 50 Honolulu 81 Los Angeles 64 Miami 78 New York 46  35 69 49 54 34  Pittsburgh St. Louis San Fran Seattle D.C.  49 62 59 47 57  32 46 43 36 39  
,....  • • •  ........  .~,  .'  ••  

The 19-year-old UW-Madison sophomore, a state assembly page for 13 months, was abruptly fired last Thursday morning for comments she made to The Badger Herald about working as a "go-fer" to Wisconsin politicians. 
In the front-page article headlined "Raise the Roof: A look inside the Capitol and how UW students help make it work," Cole-Opitz spoke about the occasional absurdity of pandering to legislators. 
She described a scenario in which assembly speaker Scott Jensen want­ed a Coke when there was only Pepsi left in the Capitol. Cole-Opitz told The Herald she was sent to Walgreen's for the speaker's preferred cola, prompt­

ing the comment: "I was just standing 
there in awe. He's the speaker of the 
house, not Jesus Christ." 
"It didn't mean anything," said · Cole-Opitz, who has retained a 
lawyer to contest her firing. "I told 
the story because I thought· it was 
funny." 

The comment ignited a series of 
events that left Cole-Opitz without a 
job, the state Capitol without copies 
of The Herald and a lot of questions 
about First Amendment rights. 
"Employees have work rules they 
are expected to follow, and there are 
consequences when they are not fol­
lowed," said sergeant-at-arms Denise released -she was told by Solie that she was fired for the comments that appeared in The Herald. Cole-Opitz said she was told they were disre­spectful and violated the pages' ~:ode of conduct. 
''I'm very upset about this," said Cole-Opitz, adding, "I've learned more about politics in the last day than I did in the past year." 
Solie had close ties to Jensen. The speaker directly appointed her as the Capitol's first woman sergeant-at­arms on Jan. 1 and has worked at the job for five weeks. 
Jensen's office said the relationship had no impact on the decision to fire Cole-Opitz. 
• AMERICAN UNIVERSITY Walesa calls for values in world affairs 
WASHINGTON 
Without a basis in shared values and a foundation in personal conviction, international law has no standing, Lech Walesa, 1983 Nobel Peace Prize winner and former president of Poland, told a crowd in excess of 1,000 in AU's Bender Arena Thursday. His Kennedy Political Union-sponsored speech was also a part of homecoming week. Walesa emphasized 

the power of personal convictions in creating success. He briefly discussed the triumph of the 10-million-member Solidarity movement which helped topple Poland's Communist regime in the 1980s. Polish civilians faced not only the fear of secret police squads, but the Soviet Union's million-man army, which was stationed largely in Poland. "It was our common effort at the time," Walesa said. "We, along with Reagan, Bush and the Holy Father, won the the third world war without firing a single shot." Walesa urged students to take a role in the future of foreign policy. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAliFORNIA-lOS ANGELES 
UC may alter admissions to up diversity 
LOS ANGELES 
In an attempt to increase the pool of UC applicants, the UC Board of Hegents discussed qualifying the top 4 percent of students from every California high school for admission to the UC system. An estimated 3,500 additional students would be added to the applicant pool, while the amount of students admitted would not increase, said Terry Lightfoot, spokesperson for the UC office of the president. Because of this, Lightfoot estimates that 10 to 15 percent of all appli­cants could be affected by this plan. UC regents speculate that admitting the top 4 percent of each high school's stu­dents would help increase the diversity of UC applicants. "One would hope it would broaden the number of schools from which we are drawing and add a more diverse element to the student body," said regent Judith Levin. "It also might encourage schools to make more students eligible." 
• NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 31 student groups lose recognition 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
The Associated Student Government announced Monday the immediate derecognition of 31 student organizations, and many student group leaders said the move came as a complete surprise. An additional 11 student groups were demoted from A-to B-level status, meaning they can no longer apply for funds from the Student Activities Funding Board. Many group leaders said they plan to appeal the change in status at Wednesday's ASG meeting. For a group's original status to be restored, a majority of the senate must vote to overturn the executive committee's decision. The committee looked at groups' membership, financial conduct, quality of programming and how simi­lar they are to other groups during the student group review, said executive vice president Andrew Mohraz. The committee graded student groups and dropped those lhat scored below a predetermined cutoff mark. "We've had groups that weren't maintaining standards, and other groups that should be recognized by another department." said Mohraz. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSitv 


Students falling deeper in debt 
EAST lANSING, Mich. 

Justin Wood probably wouldn't be at MSU if he didn't get financial aid. But the biosystems engineering junior said the debt he's accumulating is worrying him. ''I'm a little bit scared, because I don't know if I really comprehend what I'm getting into," Wood said. "It was my only choice, though -that or don't go to school." And Wood isn't alone. A new study shows more than half of all undergraduate and profes­sional students borrow to finance their educations and find .themselves in debt when they graduate. The statistics are about 10 percent higher than surveys compiled from 1992­
93. But an MSU official said there isn't solid evidence to show that students suffer from financial aid debt after grad­uation. "We don't really know what kind of negative elliJct it is having on students, because there isn't much research," said Tom Scarlett, director of MSU's Office of Financial Aid. 


a e 3 
' 





omens 
ews
Wednesday, February 25, 1998 

WOMEN IN THE CHRISTIAN TRADITION 
Debate surrounds ordination of women 
By ANNE SCHNEEMAN that the tradition to restrict priestly But last June, the Catholic Theolog­News Writer ordination is founded on the word of ical Society issued a different resolu­God. Biblical evidence suggests that tion. The statement said, "There are 
Since the inception of their religion, Jesus chose only men as his apostles, serious doubts regarding the nature o Christians have been ·taught that "in and it was only to them that he said, the authority of this teaching." the beginning was the Word." "Do this in memory of me." The criticism was not directed at the 
But ever since, they have argued Proponents of ordination believe that Pope, but at Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, about the meaning of "the head of the Congregation Word." Currently, they are 
for the Doctrine of the debating the significance in Faith. Ratzinger relies on terms of women being ordained 'THE PRESENCE OF A CER­scripture and church tra­as priests. TAIN DIVERSITY OF ROLES dition in asserting that the 
In 1996, 65 percent of Roman IS IN NO WAY PREJUDICIAL TO exclusion of women is Catholics supported the ordina-infallible. tion of women. Yet, Pope John WOMEN, ••• BUT IS RATHER AN Theologians are skepti­
Paul II has made clear that the EXPRESSION OF WHAT IS SPE­cal of Ratzinger's appeals Church has a different position. CIFIC TO BEING MALE AND to church tradition. They "One can also appreciate that argue that it is a tradition 
the presence of a certain diver-FEMALE ... ' that rests on a cultural sity of roles is in no way prejudi-POPE JOHN PAUL II belief about women's infe­cial to women, provided that this riority. 
discrimination is not the result Since the Pope has yet to of an arbitrary imposition, but is rather because Christ left the Church under declare it an infallible teaching, it must an expression of what is specific to the guidance of the Holy Spirit, it is meet other tests before it becomes 
being male and female . . . these role unlikely that he meant for exclusion truly binding to all Catholics. 
distinctions must be understood among those who would preside at the Pressure from a clergy shortage in according to the particular area of cri­Eucharist. · the Catholic Church has led many to teria of the sacramental economy, i.e., In 1995, a statement was issued from believe that eventually the Church will 
the economy of signs which God freely the Vatican's Congregation for the have to take some serious measures. chooses in order to become present in Doctrine of the Faith stating that the "All I can say is that the church has the midst of humanity," he said. case was .closed on women's ordina­The Homan Catholic Church asserts tion. see DEBATE I page 6 
Women in Reli ious Histor 

. .. 1455: The verdict which executed . 1992: Church of England .
· · t866:Angela Hughe$' founded the · 

Joan of Arc 45 years earlier is . a.llowswbmen's ordinance into · 
.. first Catholic hospital in NewYork · 

overturned. · City. . . · the prie$thood, 
1986: 2,400 women assemble in 1514: Death of Anne de 1671 : St. Rose of Lima is canonized Washlrigton, Q.C~. for expal1di3d role .·.·.
Bretagne, who was flcensed .the first saint of the New World. · ot women in the Catholic Church. . . 
by the Pope to bless 


Sister Madeleva's life proof of devotion 
By LISA MAXBAUER desired to study theology. Sister Madeleva's concern under Pope Pius XII. Its News Writer Sister Madeleva, who chose and passion. courses focused around her name by combining the Gail Porter Mandell, pro­Aquinas, the Old and New 
Out of Cumberland, Wis., three names of Mary, Mary fessor of humanistic studies Testaments, Church history, emerged one of the 20th cen­Madgalen and Eve, furthered at Saint Mary's and recent papal encyclicals and five tury's most influential poets, her education with a master's author of the book, specific fields of theology. prophets and theologians. degree from Notre Dame in "Madeleva, A Biography," Saint Mary's program was Sister Madeleva Wolff never 1918 and a doctorate degree believes this woman was a success and became the anticipated the reputation from Berkeley in 1925. She motivated because "religion template for schools around she achieved. was the first sister to receive seemed to be the worst the globe. In its 22 year exis­
Upon arrival at Saint this well respected honor taught, even though it was tence, Saint Mary's School of Mary's, Mary Evaline Wolff f r o m the corner-Sacred Theology awarded 76 was immediately recognized Berkeley's stone of Ph.D.'s and 354 masters as a rebellious student who institution. 'THE ESSENCE OF OUR Catholic edu­degrees to men, women and held parties in her room, Sister cation." laity.
COLLEGE IS NOT ITS 

habitually missed class and Made leva Sister Mandell felt that Sister 
BUILDINGS, ITS ENDOWMENT

sought to challenge the con­became the Madeleva Madeleva's program was fines of authority. When the third presi-FUND, ITS ENROLLMENT, OR believed reli­most important because it c.ollege confronted her dent of EVEN ITS FACULTY" THE gion should be "qualified a body of women regarding her wild nature, S a i n t ' better inte­theologians who were ready
Mary's in ESSENCE IS THE TEACHING

this free spirit claimed, grated into the to carry out the Vatican II "Some of .the rules, I think, 1934. She OF TRUTH.' minds of edu-reforms," becoming more are rather foolish." brought cated individu-intensely involved with the Twenty-five years later, this with her TAl als. Church's future. 
s M
JSTER ADELEVA rr OLFF "The liberal

woman returned to Saint the qualifi­Women such as Mary Daly, Mary's campus, both as a nun cations of arts are most Betty Moslander and Margaret and as the president of the "my ability to dream and my liberal, most liberating when Brennan led this first wave of college. capacity to work." they rest on complete rather feminine theologians to come 
It was precisely this enthu­Sister Madeleva is remem­than partial truths," out of the program. siastic independence of bered for numerous achieve­Madeleva stated. M. Shawn Copeland, a femi­Wolll"s that allowed her to ments, but one particularly After many struggles, Saint nist theologian, said that the make a revolutionary impact remains influential on an Mary's became the site for school's founder inspired the on the religious world after international level. At the the very first School for theologians when "she provid­she became Sister Madeleva. time, there was no place in Sacred Theology in 1943. ed Catholic women with more The woman who once feared the world where theology This unique program allowed than a room, she gave us a that "God did not make sis­could be studied by women the opportunity for women to school." ters out of girls like me," and lay people. It was only a gain higher degrees in theol­Beyond the founding of this became a successful force in set curriculum for men ogy. program, Sister Madeleva gaining status for lay people, studying in the priesthood. The curriculum was especially women, who This restriction became approved by the Vatican 
see MADELEVA I page 6 


'I:'FTYYEARS 
£AGO, A WOMEN COULDN'T EVEN GET INTO A PH.D. PROGRAM; NOW, THEY'VE 
CHANGED THE FACE OF THEOLOGY.' 
SISTER REGINA CaLL NOTRE DAME THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT 

Feminist theology important part of Christianity 
By ANNE SCHEEMAN 
News Writer 
If theology is the science of God, then feminist theology is the science of God according to women. 
In 1952, almost a decade afwr Sister Madeleva founded a doctoral program in theology for women, Pope Pius XII created Regina Mundi, a pontifical institute in Rome, to prepare women to teach theology at women's colleges. 
Shortly after the birth of this institute, feminist theology has been infused into literature, doctrine and the classroom . 
The ideology behind feminist theology centers on re-evaluating traditional theology. These new theologians called for fresh methodological approaches, the posing of new questions, identifying new explanatory categories and proposing new data for theological analysis and reflection. 
The first phase of feminist theology suggested reform, because it demanded that women be included as full partici­pants in social and ecclesiastical life and in the practice of theology. 
Sister Regina Coll, a professor in the Notre Dame theology department, dis­cussed the evolution of women in theol­ogy. 
"Fifty years ago, a woman couldn't even get into a Ph. D. program; now they've changed the face of theology," said Coil. 
The different subgroups of the devel­oping theology are not easily catego­rized. What started out as a white women's movement has significantly diversified. Now, feminist theology has turned into secular, evangelical, African, Asian and Native American feminist theologies. 
One clear change that feminist theol­ogy has brought is the inclusion of gen­der sensitive language. 
"It's amazing how threatening female language can be to people. They aren't used to hearing God referred to in any way but 'He.' It may be difficult for stu­dents to think of women in leadership position when they can only uses mas­culine images and language for God," said professor Joseph Incandela, a the­ology professor at Saint Mary's. 
But feminist theology's most impor­tant role so far may be calling attention to the invaluable roles women have played throughout history. In the dis­covery of these essential roles, feminist theology has served as an indictment against the abuse and oppression that women have suffered. 
Theological feminists facing a new era have begun to focus on the destruc­tion of natural resources, pollution, mil­itarism and poverty. These issues will continue to be the focus of feminist the­ologians well into the 21st century. 
.. 

--~~----~---­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 25, 1998 

A symbol of hope ... 
ness and relief of the world," Baxter said.


Iraq 
The rally lasted more thai] one hour, and organizers post­

continued from page 1 
ed signs on the War Memorial 

"Basically, it is good that Fountain that read "Support tlwn~ is an agrtH~ment," he the UN agreement," and "No eoncludPd. "But if Saddam U.S. Showdown with Iraq." continues to break the agree­Every speaker expressed the 
ments, we desire to ere-should bomb him or punish 
'I

HAVE A FRIEND IN

him in SOIIlP 
ISRAEL, WHO I JUST 
Special to 1be Observer 

The Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats will per­form in Notre Dame's Stepan Center at 7 p.m. Friday. 
Tickets are $5 for general admission and $3 for Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross College students. They can be purchased in advance at the LaFortune student center information desk and at the door. 
The Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats troupe has won the National campus Activities' Entertainers of the Year award in seven of the last 10 years. According to the troupe's director, Danny Chang, the ancient art of Chinese acrobatics, rooted in 

/lf.lu@ @fPJ@@fiW@!l QQQ 0@@(Jj)@@o ®@flll@(Jj}@ 0@@(Jf)@@Q 

Cfteveux SJ?rofessiona[ Cllah,; (_Oesian and Cfanning Safon 


257-0711 

r---------------------, r--------------------,
I I : I Tanning : I 
I I


iHi Lite with Erin i 
:I visit $3.99 l 
I I

l I $30 l I 
I I 
:6 visits $19.99 : 
I I

l(Haircut $10 extra) l 
:10 visits $29.99 :

I I 
I I I I 
L---------------------~ L--------------------~ 
Bring this ad in for one fEE£. tanning session 

Oriental philosophy, dancing and tradition, is the longest running folk art form in the history of mankind. Each acrobat's physical and philosophical strength supports the group structure to produce magnificently choreographed progrmns of balanc~ ing, juggling, dance, comedy and magic. Those per­formances are marked by precision, vibrant colors, daring teats. and extraordinary graee. 
The Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats have per­formed in more than 65 countries and are consid­ered the premier troupe touring today. 
The performance is sponsored by the Notre Dame Student Union Board. For more information, contact Uzzie Brady, cultural arts commissioner, at 631-7757. 

815 W. McKinley Ave (Conveniently located across from Town & Country Shopping Center) 
10% Student Discount 


Wednesday, February 25, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLO NEWS BRIEFS 
Turkish Airlines captures Cypriot hijacker 
ANKARA, Turkey 

Security forces disguised as caterers entered a Turkish Airlines plane Wednesday and seized a Cypriot hijacker who had demanded to be flown to Iran, television sta­tions reported. No one was harmed in the raid, launched after the hijacker refused to surrender, independent NTV and ATV said. The hijacker, who claimed to be carrying a bomb in a teddy bear, commandeered the plane shortly after it took off from the south­ern city of Adana on Tuesday night. The plane was originally on a flight to the Turkish capital, Ankara, about 250 miles to the northwest. The hijacker released 21 of the 62 passengers after landing in the south­eastern city of Diyarbakir. Five crew mem­bers were also aboard the plane. The hijack­er was a Cypriot, apparently from the north­ern, Turkish half of the divided island, NTV quoted airline chief Yusuf Bolayirli as saying. The man told security forces, 'Tm a martyr of God." state minister Refaiddin Sabin said. It was not immediately clear whether the man actually had a bomb; nor was it known why he wanted to go to Tehran. The rescue operation began soon after the officials refused to refuel the RJ-100 aircraft. 
Campaign finance bill clears Senate obstacle 
WASHINGTON 

Campaign finance legislation cleared a first, largely symbolic Senate hurdle on Tuesday, and supporters struggled uphill to amass the support needed to overcome a Republican filibuster. A bid by the Republican leadership to scuttle the bill outright failed, 51-48. At the same time, Democrats swung behind a compromise proposal by Sen. Olympia Snowe, R-Maine, affecting the thorny subjects of union spending and attack ads in political cam­paigns. "So we (Democrats) are doing our best to do our part to get campaign finance reform," said President Clinton, who also announced his own support for Snowe's proposal. Supporters of the legislation con­ceded they are still shy of the 60 votes needed to overcome a filibuster. The legis­lation would ban unregulated "soft money" donations to national political parties from corporations, labor unions and individuals. It also would provide fresh curbs on adver­tisements that attack candidates but escape regulation because they are presented as "issue ads" not covered by existing election law. In addition, it would provide for greater disclosure of campaign donations, and greater penalties for violations. Supporters pointed to the excesses of the 
l<)96 presidential campaign as evidence the system needs reform. 
S&P 500: Composite 

1030.56 Volume:8370.10 -7.58 720,597,260 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

~·DM~t:j): IU:~fB '~1!:HAI:i1lf J liAl~ £BlCf 
IVASTEMA5TER5 INC WAST 50.00 O.R4 2.53 WONDERWARE CORP WNDR 47.66 7.63 23.62 1\0"fERFERON SCIENCE IFSC 39.76 .1.06 7.2S \VIATION GR-WT5 AVliPW 39.13 0.56 2.00 1·'/IIANCED SERVICE ESV5 38.46 1.25 4.50 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

,\llVANTA CORP H  AIJVNR  2.1.10  7.62  22.75  
\I>VANTA CORP A  ADVNA  23.46  7.37  24.06  
II LEX CHII.f. AI>R  Tl.  22.92  0.56  2.00  
1'1 reo ANIMAL sur  HEAT  21.95  0.69  2.31  
KI.NT ELECfRONIC5  KNT  21.05  5.75  21.56  


U.S. soldiers remain skeptical 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
THE USS GEORGE WASHINGTON 
T-shirts showing Saddam Hussein caught in a rifle's cross-hairs are selling briskly aboard the USS George Washington, where an agreement to end the Iraq con­frontation was met with relief but also skepticism. 
"N.obody is packing their bags," said Rear Adm. Michael Mullen, commander of the U.S. battle group in the Persian Gulf. 
Warplanes carrying air-to-air missiles roared into the night sky on Tuesday, headed for the south­ern no-fly zone over Iraq. 
Officers said there was little change in their flight plans despite the new U.N.-mediated accord meant to avert a U.S:-led attack on 
. Iraq. 
"We will not change our operat­ing schedule," said Capt. Lindell Rutherford, the aircraft carrier's commander. He said the ship still sends some 40 to 50 flights a day over the no-fly zone. 
"The possibility of military action may be slightly less than it was a few days ago," Rutherford said. adding that "the next few days will be important." 
U.S. forces in the Gulf, which include two aircraft carriers carry­ing 100 attack aircraft, are expect­ed to remain in the region until Washington is satisfied that Iraq is fulfilling its promise to open previ­ously off-limits sites to U.N. inspec­tors. 
Since it arrived in the Gulf in November, the George Washington has been sending warplanes over southern Iraq to patrol the no-fly zone established by the United States and its allies after the 1991 Gulf War -and to prepare for pos­sible bombing raids. 
"There's 'been a collective sigh of relief," said Carroll, of Virginia Beach, Va. "I don't think anyone really wanted to go to war." 
Below deck in the ship's store. 


Petty Officer Third Class Willie Brimage folded a stack ofT-shirts bearing the Iraqi leader's head, fixed in the sights of a rifle. 
Brimage, who manages the inde­pendently run store but would work in damage control if fighting began, said he has been selling at least 100 shirts a day -sometimes 200 ­since the store started carrying them about a week ago. 
The ship carries some 5,500 ser­vice members, and many have been buying stacks of the shirts to send to friends and relatives. 
On the hangar deck, sailors pol­ished the radar dome of an F-18 strike fighter. Another group of ser­vicemen touched up the dull gr·ay paint of an aircraft'. 
''I'm happy that no one had to die innocently," said Lt. Joe Guerrein, of Leavenworth, Kan., an F -18 fight­er pilot with the Marauders squadron. 
Many pilots said they were skepti­cal that an agreement would hold and pointed to the almost yearly confrontations between the United States and Iraq. 


. . . . 
~ 


-------------~--------­

page 6 The Observer •CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 25, 1998 
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
Debate 
continued from page 3 
always done what it needs to survive. and it will survive" said Joseph lncandcla, a theology professor at Saint Mary's. 
While Eastern churches may have ordained women in early centuries, it has been the unbroken tradition of the Homan Catholic. Church to ordain only men into the priest­hood. John Paul II has main­tained that the Church has no authority to ordain women to the pri1~sthood. 
Sister Regina Coli, a theology professor at N1itre Dame and member of the committee on Notre Dame's position on the ordination of women, says many of her students don't even understand why it is a question. 
"The Pope would like the case to be clos1~d. but I think there is more dialogue now than ever. This is an issue of discipline, not an issue of doctrine," said Coli. 
Homan Catholic spokesmen have made it dear that if other denominations ordain women, it would have negative conse­quences on a future union with the Catholic Church. 
There are 44 denominations 
Please don't for to recycle The, 
"' 
Observer 
in the U.S. that do ordain women, ranging from the Methodist church in 1892 to the Episcopal church in 1979. Many congregations adopted the ordi­nation of women because they merged with a church that already had ordination in place. Since 1970, women in the 
U.S. have become .clergy in increasing numbers. At that time, three percent of clergy were female, but by 1990 the numbers were up to 10 per­cent. Today, more than 50 per­cent of theological schools are filled with women. 
The question of ordination does not necessarily reflect the leadership roles of women in their church or parish. In the Catholic Church, many woman have moved into positions of "pastoring" within the parish in administrative and consolin-g roles. 
Even in religions that allow female ordination, however, womfHl do not receive equal treatment. Early female Congregationalist clergy, who were ordained in 1853, were limited, and when they did have parishes, the congregations were small and low paying. 
These days, "the Word" on the ordination of women is that the debate is anything but over. 

their affliction and order their lives.
Lecture 

"If you realize that you have a support system, the better
continued from page 1 

chance there is to overcome the 
between the condition of homo­sexuality and the act itself. In 1986, recalled Harvey, it came from the Vatican that "the homo­sexuaJ condition is not in itself sinful. but is an objective disor­der." 
The treatment of this disorder is where Father Harvey and his group Courage come in. 
Begun in 1978 as a five day intensive retreat for homosexual priests, the organization now spans the earth, from the Philippines to Ireland to the United States to Canada. It pro­vides a support system, not just for troubled clerics, but homo­sexuals from all walks of life, who want some way to curb condition and live a chaste life," remarked Harvey. This system has structured itself over the years by ini1uences from both within and without, including a modeling after the Alcoholics Anonymous' 12 steps program, to a five goal strategy developed by the 10 initial members. 

And has it worked? The answer depends on the patient, says Harvey. 
"It works for those who work with the goals and steP.s. Those who stay manage to live a chaste life." 
Additionally, Courage has set up a program_ for parents and loved ones of homosexuals whose lifestyles have led them away from the Catholic Church. 
"Almost 40 percent of the calls we ge·t am from parnnts who am heartbroken because a son or daughter has rejected Catholic teaching, and the parents want to know what they can do," detailed llarvey. 
Typically, he said, the response of Courage is simply to "keep in touch, but don't push to hard, in order to avoid resentment." 
"I have never met anybody yet who chose to be a homosexual," said Harvey. "I have the grnatest respect for these people, and their dignity as children of God." 
Father llarvey has published two books on the subject of Catholic action amongst homo­sexuals, "The llomoscxual Person" and "The Truth about llomosnxuals," in addition to over 40 articles on the subject. 


Senior for the I 998..99 school year. 
""*' 

You may pick up application t th~ Office of Student Activities, JI5 LaFortune 


DEADLINE: FEBRUARY 27' 1998. 
ALUMNI SENIOR 
Hear the Experiences 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL 

of Gang Members
CONCERNS 


Madeleva 
continued from page 3 
was internationally known as a published poet, a Medieval scholar and a friend to all. When she announeed her retirement as president of Saint Mary's in 1961. letters and tnlegrams from around the world poured in to say farewell. 
Sistnr Madeleva's visual memory lives on around in 
THE SERVICE OF 
HoLY CoMMUNION 
according to THE BOOK OF COMMON PRAYI£H 
ffi 
Ash Wednesday 
FEBRUARY ~5 
ffi 
ALUMNI HALL CHAPEL 5:15P.M. 
the academic building bear­ing her name and in Mandell's written tribute, and her legacy continues within the academic and administrative structures of the college. 
Sister Madeleva once said, "The essence of our college is not its buildings, its endowment fund, its enroll­ment, or even its faculty; the essence is the teaching of truth" which is a quality the women of Saint Mary's strive to continue. 

---~~-~-~-~­
------~-----.--------. -~ -~-­
~-------_..___ 
Wednesday, February 25, 1998 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Tornado rescue turns to cleanup, rebuilding 
Storm is states deadliest ever as toll hits 39 
By KAREN TESTA 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. Rescuers with dogs searched the piney woods near a torna­

do-devastated campground Tuesday for possible victims of a swarm of tornadoes that strafed central Florida. 
The death toll was 39. 
Three people were missing late Tuesday, one from the Ponderosa Park Campground. Three others listed as missing from the campground were found alive at a hospital. 
As hope of finding more sur­vivors faded, searchers began yelling to the two dogs, "Go find 

JOB HUNTING? 
ALL INTERVIEWS TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK ARE POSTED TODAY IN THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE. CHECK NOW TO SEE IF YOU ARE SCHEDULED. 
IF YOU ARE NO LONGER INTERESTED, CROSS YOUR 
NAME OFF THE SCHEDULE. DO NOT TAKE AN 
INTERVIEW AWAY FROM ANOTHER STUDENT. 
NO-SHOWS HURT EVERYONE. 
IF YOU SIGN UP, SHOW UP. 


Fred!" -the signal for the black Labrador and Weimaraner to find bodies hid­den in the underbrush sur­rounding the campground. 
"Search!" -the command to find survivors -could no longer be heard. 
"There's nothing in there," said Lt. Mark Bogush of the Tampa Fire-Rescue Canine Unit. "They don't want to shut that door of hope, but this is basically a cleanup." 
Rescuers picked through the mass of twisted metal, shat­tered glass and splintered lum­ber the day after six to 10 El Nino-driven twisters tore through central Florida from the Gulf of Mexico, destroying more than 900 homes and busi­nesses. 
Monday's tornadoes, packing 260 mph winds, were the state's deadliest on record, killing more than Hurricane Andrew in 1992, which left 32 people dead in Florida, Louisiana and the Bahamas. 
The weather service issued warnings 20 to 30 minutes before the tornadoes hit, but it did little good. "When people are sleeping, there's no way of getting the message out," said Terry Faber, University of Miami meteorology researcher. 
Divers combing the creek behind a home in Sanford found the body of 21-year-old Penny Louise Hall. Also killed when the twisters hit their house were her parents, Debra and Edward Hall, and her fiance, 23-year-old Kevin Taylor. 
Only her 5-year-old daughter, 

Ashley, sur-[.;:::::z==:==:::-:I---···W:"-2IE==:=:=-;----=-~~T---~vived. She was hospi­talized with serious injuries. Elsewhere in Sanford, 40 miles north of Orlando, the putrid stench of a rotting pig carcass alongside a driveway hung heavi­ly in the air over a 10­acre farm. Chickens, pigs, a horse 

and a cow with a bro­ken leg wandered about in a daze. 
Freddie Padgett of the town of Geneva near Daytona Beach recounted wearing a life jacket to bed -his habit 'whenever storms approach. His recre­ational vehicle was demolished and he was hurled into Lake Harney by the winds, staying afloat by clinging for hours to a small boat. 
The number of people left homeless and damage esti­mates were being tallied Tuesday. State insurance com­missioner Bill Nelson said, how­ever, that property damage was not on a scale with Hurricane Andrew, which destroyed or damaged 35,000 homes and caused $25 billion in losses. 
Shelters were set up to house 
AP 
thousands, but many found solace with relatives, neighbors · or in hotels. 
Donations began pouring in as relief organizations estimat­ed that more than $300,000 will be needed to shelter, feed and clothe displaced families. President Clinton declared the region a disaster, clearing the way for federal aid, and the Red Cross provided meals. Clinton also promised to survey the destruction Wednesday. 
Cinde Von Herbulis was among the volunteers helping to distribute supplies. 
"We are giving them what they will need today and tomor­row," she said. "They were afraid if they took too much there wouldn't be anything for somebody else." 

Feelin2 naked? 
SUB: TRY US ON! 
Here's the naked truth about Student Union Board .... we are looking for a few more applicants for the following positions: 
ANTOSTAL 
MOVIES

Wanna plan the hottest Wouldn't you like to tell all spring festival this side of your buddies that you areof the Mississippi? Hey-you responsible for bringing stars getta play with airtoys, 

like Brad Pitt, Julia Roberts, eat elephant ears, and 
and Samuel L. Jackson to n.d.? 

act like a child the whole time-yeah! SOPHOMORE 


LITERARY FESTIVALCAMPUS ENTERTAINMENT 
You gotta dig bringing in How about bringing up & internationally acclaimed coming bands to campus authors right .here to theand planning events like golden dome! 
Nan and Acoustic Cafe? 
SERVICES 

Can you dig planning phatCOLLEGIATE JAZZ FESTIVAL events like dance workshops, You gotta groove with organizing free laundry, free popcorn 
a nationwide jazz bonanza, ~ day, and free carnations 
complete with famous judges ~ for Valentine's Day? · and the best college bands around. 
SPECIAL EVENTS Could you go for bringing 
CULTURAL ARTS 

famous comedians to N.D.
Do you wanna sponsor groovy and organizing events like events like International Film Singled Out? 

Festival, Java & Jazz, and Chinese Acrobats? 



APPLY NOW! 
...or flip burgers for the rest of eternity applications in sub office (201) lafun --DUE THIS FRIDAY!!!· (2/27) 

---~-~-----~--­
-·-·-~7~-~·-~ 
Wednesday, February 25, 1998
The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

page 8 
• SOUTH KOREA 
Dissident-turned-president promises reforms 
Korean government -some­provocations, no South Koreanexchange special envoys to dis­II.
By PAUL SHIN In an apparent response to thing it has refused 'to do for attempt to absorb North Korea cuss rapprochement.
Associated Press 
and expanded inter-Korea
Kim also renewed his earlier Kim's earlier offer, North Korea years. 
exchanges -as a basis of

SEOUL proposal for a summit with said last week that it is willing Kim set forth three principles -no North Korean armed peaceful coexistence. 
North Korean leader Kim Jong to talk with the new South

Former dissident Kim Dae­
jung was sworn in as South 
Korea's president Wednesday, 
pledging democratic and eco­
nomic reforms and a new rela­tionship with communist North Korea. 
The inau­guration marked the 


first transfer L----K_.i,._m___, of power to an opposition party in South Korea's turbulent. 50-year his­tory as an independent nation. "Today is a proud day when a democratic transition of power is taking place on this soil for the first time," Kim said before 45,000 invited guests and com­mon folk at a plaza in front of the National Assembly. Since its founding in 1948, South Korea has been governed by the same conservative politi­r.al groups. And through most of those years. Kim. 74. was per­secuted as a (iangerous· dissi­dnnt-an apostle of democracy in a land of military dictators. Among the invited guests were Kim's three immediate pnHiecessors -Kim Young­sam, Chun Doo-hwan and Hoh TaP-woo. Chun and Hoh. ex­army generals. seized pownr in a 1979 coup, arrested Kim Dae­jung on sedition charges and c·omlmnned him to death. Kim was span~d after inter­vention by the United States, but spcnt 15 years in prison, nxilc and house arrest and sur­vived what he believes were three assassination attempts by the military leaders who watched as he took the oath of otlicc. In his acceptance speech, Kim rcnrwnd his promisn that his "government of the people" will not seck politicalrnvcnge. Declaring that reviving the economy is his biggest task, the new president said a lack of democracy resulted in collusion between polities and business in South Korea, contributing to the eountry's current crisis. "I firmly believe that we can overcome today's crisis by prac­ticing democracy and a market economy" simultaneously, he said. Saying his new government will try to thaw long-frozen relations with rival North Korea. the new president pro­posed that the two Koreas 


www.ebswim.com 
Whether you're heading for Daytona, Panama City or mom's home cooking during Spring Break, it may be agood idea to head to L.S. Ayres first. 
We have agreat new selection of swimwear-and you can use the coupon below to save 15% on any Electric Beach suit by Jantzen-America's favorite swimsuit maker. 
r------------~­
1 s I
aVf:' ...on rpgular pricPd P.b. 
L---------------­
1  I  
: 1  15Ol /0  swimwear by Jantzen when you prespnt this  : :  
:  coupon at L.S.Ayres.  1  
I I I  OfFer  expire., March 10, 1998. I L·S·AYRES : I  





.-­

Wednesday, February 25, 1998 page 9 
VIEWPOINT 

Student Athletes' Challenges Demand Respect 
• DOONESBURY 
TONIGHTI 'I? UK& 7D IU£lCOM& MR. JER£MY 
CAVliNPISH 70 OUR. 
SUPPORTGROUP... 
/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
J~;: ffV!iRYON& H&R/3 19 !3Nf?URIN6 7Jft3 NR13NCI-IING 
8XPfi</eNC8OrN47CI-/INGA 
toVet?0~ SUPMIAYn<VIYI u::;•••. l 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"Going to church 
doesn't make you a Christian any more than going to the garage makes 
you a car." -Dr. Laurence J. Peter 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor... . ................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.. .._. ...................... Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor.. . ...... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager....................jennifer Breslow Sports Editor...... . . .................... Mike Day Production Manager......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... . .................. Joey CrawforJ Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller.. . ............................. Kyl< Carlin Photo Editor . . .................. Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the indcpendcnr newspaper published by rhc students of rhe Univcrsicy of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. Ir does nm necessarily refJccr rhe policies of the administration ofeither insriwrion. The news is reported as accurately and o~jectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate 
News Editor. Comrnemaries. letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­.o.nrily those of The: Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre: Dame/Sainr Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone ,Lines 

Editm-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
M.ti1aging Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Spom  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accenr/Sainr Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
As a senior at Notre Dame, I have finally been pushed to the limit. I refuse to be treated like a second-class stu­dent at this University. This mistreat­ment is not due to my race, gender or sexuality, but because I am a varsity athlete. 
After overhearing the casual conver­sation of two classmates today, the stereotypes I have felt all along were thrust blatantly in my face. I can no longer deny the division among our stu­dent body. In high school I was respect­ed for my talents in both softball and academics. I graduated as Salutatorian with a 3.9 GPA, along with numerous athletic achievements, and was rewarded with a scholarship to this prestigious University. Once I arrived on campus however, I felt stupid for the first time in my life. 
As your peers walk into class do you judge them on their intelligence or guess their motivations for being in the class? What if they are wearing a let­terman jacket? As soon as my fellow students and professors realized I played a sport I was treated differently. Most people assumed I was accepted at Notre Dame purely because I played softball. In group projects my com­ments were discarded as soon as my athletic status became apparent. Many of my teachers were also hurtful. One even pulled me aside after class to tell me she had called my athletic/academic advisor and set me up with a tutor. This was before I had even turned in an assignment, but after she asked all the athletes to raise their hands on the first day of class. My intelligence was not the only quality called into question. 
Instead of being proud to represent Notre Dame with my talents, I am often made to feel ashamed to admit I play a sport. People assume I am pampered, "getting a free ride," and taking advan­tage of the University. 
But I have never worked harder in my life. After graduation I will have a summer off for the first time since I was 10 years old. No one is "giving" me anything. I am earning it. I work every day of the school year for my tJ.Iition. I go to practices, play in pain, forego vacations and alter my life to be a wor­thy representative of the blue and gold. Tomorrow I am getting up at 8 a.m. I must go to the stadium training room to swim in their SwimEx machine to reha­bilitate the shoulder I had surgery on this summer. The water is 199 degrees and the chlorine is almost unbearable. 
After that I have a meeting with my 
'INSTEAD OF BEING PROUD 
TO REPRESENT NOTRE 
DAME WITH MY TALENTS I AM 
OFfEN MADE TO FEEL ASHAMED 
TO ADMIT I PLAY A SPORT. 
PEOPLE ASSUME I AM PAMPERED, 
"GETTING A FREE RIDE," AND 
TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE 
UNIVERSITY.' 
coach at 10 a.m. As team co-captain I have to discuss the cohesion, strategy and details of the team for our upcom­ing trip. Then I have to rush back to my dorm, shower, and get ready for class. I am out of class at 1 p.m. and go to the dining hall for my first meal of the day. By 2:30p.m. I must be changed into my exercise clothes and over at the Loftus Center for my individual hitting session. This consists of an hour of hitting prac­tice with one other player and the coach. The pressure to perform is high and all eyes are on me. At 3:30p.m. it is time to lift weights with the team. We must chart our workout, which is eval­uated, as is our performance. 
"This is not social hour," we are con­stantly reminded by our strength coach. As soon as weights are over at 4:30p.m. I run four miles to keep my 

MA.\EQNITY WARD 
legs and lungs in shape. Softball is not a very aerobic sport and being physi­cally lit is something we must take care of in our "free" time. I head over to the JACC to exchange my issues (work out clothes) for clean ones and make my way to the training room for my shoul­der exercises. 
As I leave the JACC I notice it is 5:45 
p.m. 
I get back to my room and shower before going to the dining hall with my roommates. When I return to the dorm it is 7:15p.m. I have to be at Loftus at 8 

p.m. 
sharp for a meeting before prac­tice at 8:30p.m. By the time practice is done at 10:30 p.m. I am drenched in sweat, achy and exhausted. I run back to the room, grab my backpack and heat to COBA where I have a meeting with my Accounting group. It is 10:45 p.m., and I am late. My meeting con­sists of a group spreadsheet problem on pension plans and lasts an hour. I walk into Welsh Family Hall at 11:45 

p.m. 
to shed my sweaty clothes, show­er, and start my homework and study­ing. I have a test in my CAPP Ethics class tomorrow and reading to do. I hope to get to bed by 4 a.m. 


This weekend we travel to Florida to play a tournament. It marks the first of seven straight weekends on the road, and it is not a vacation. We get to Tampa Thursday night and check into the hotel. Friday morning we have practice followed by study time before our two games that evening. Saturday will be the same; Sunday starts the elimination part of the tournament We are scheduled to arrive back in South Bend at 11:30 p.m. that night. 
Contrary to popular belief, not every moment in an athlete's life is fun and care free. It is a constant battle of bal­ance and priorities. I am controlled by the University in everything that I do and calling in sick or taking a personal day is not an option. On this trip (or any) I do not drink, go out, or find myself alone. My every move will be planned with my 16 teammates and coaches, and I am constantly reminded that I represent Notre Dame in all that I do. For many people we meet on trips throughout the nation it is their only contact with the University. Therefore, I speak and act on behalf of every indi­vidual, present or past, connected with the Irish. I am constantly held to a higher standard than my classmates, but treated with a lower one. And what glory awaits me? My games are not televised, and there will be no profes­sional contract in my future. I exhibit my skills in front of a home crowd that has never amassed triple digits. 
Do not misunderstand me, I would never give up the great opportunity I had to play collegiate sports. It was, and is, a tremendous experience and given the chance I would do it all again. Still, I feel I deserve to at the very least be treated with equality. No matter what my extracurricular activities are, I am still a Notre Dame student. I attend the same classes and do the same work as everyone else. No teacher ever weighted my grade or gave me preferential treatment. If any­thing, I had to overcome the athletic stereotype just to be seen as equal. 
Please support your student athletes. It is difficult just to be a student at this school. It is even harder to be a student athlete. It becomes near impossible to be successful at both when you feel the people you work hard to represent are against you. I admit there are students here that do not "pull their own weight." Rather than go to class, they copy notes from a hard working stu­dent. They skate out of Notre Dame with a degree they barely worked for without learning a thing. 
Maybe even a few are athletes. 
Maybe ... 
Kelly Nichols Senior, Welsh Family Hall February 23, 1998 

--;--.--~ ~----. --~--~ 
------; 
VIEWPOINT 

page 10 Wednesday, February 25, 1998 
• WRONG SlOE UP 
Common 
Sense? 

When I last left you, my father was wan­dering around looking for the trail head to Thunder Lake and Father Sorin was bmathing a sigh of relief that hn was not going to bo in this column. But, as I said, people do dumb things all the time. 

Margaret Shaheen 
Hm:ently in Colorado, a little 1 0-year-old girl grabbed her mother's lunch box by mistake and took it to school. Colorado has a law that forbids students from bringing knives of any size to school. You can bring a machete to school but not a knife. During lunch, the little girl opened her lunch box and, to her horror, found a paring knife inside. She ran and told her teacher what she had done. The teacher studied the knife. measured it, determined it was one­inch long and concluded it was smaller than a machete. Then the teaeher dragged the girl and the paring knife to the princi­pal. The principal mcasurod the knife, con­eluded that the teacher was right-it was smallor than a machete by a good three feet-and straight away expelled the little I 0-ymtr-old. The little girl's mother called the newspapers, who promptly made fun of the teacher, the principal and the school board for hiring such ignorant people. 
Anyway, the little girl is now back in school and the Colorado legislature is pass­ing a law that says teachers must use com­mon sense. Gosh. even my father knows that-and he can't find the right trail lwad. 
Ewm I do stupid things. Not too long ago I was in the North Dining Hall putting my tray away when I got the uncontrollable urge-it must have been the icc cream­to ride the .luge. I flipped the tray over my head, smaeked my butt into it, earomed ofT a table, and slid feet first, butt in the tray­luge style-across the floor. All to the cheering of' more than 50 dining hall faith­ful. 
I don't need a thronging crowd to make a fool of' myself. Right after I got baek to school, I went to the gas station to fill up my Honda. For reasons I don't understand, I was having a bit of a problem getting the gas eap ofT-actually it was more than a bit of' a problem. I couldn't get the darn thing off. The more I tried, the worse it got. This might have been okay, but. unfortu­nately, I was not alone. There was a guy in a Ford pick-up truck (a piek-'em-up, as they say in Montana) watching me. Finally, he couldn't stand it any longer. lie poked his head out the window and yelled, "Hey, honey, turn the cap the other way!" Then he looked at my license plate, furrowed his brow, stroked his mustache, shook his head and spit, undoubtedly wondering how in God's name I ever made it from Colorado to Indiana. I'm sure he also wondered who the hell decided to let women on the road anyway. I understand the Indiana legisla­ture is considering that question now. 
I am not alone, however. My friends do dumb things too. When I was in high school, I and some of my friends used to get a ride with my best friend's brother. Jon. One day the car was really jammed by the · time we stopped to pick up my friend Sam. Afraid that there was not enough room for Sam and her backpack, Jon turned off the • car, removed the keys, handed them to Sam and said, "Put it in the trunk." Sam hesitat­ed for a moment, then headed for the trunk. You guessed it. She put the keys in the trunk. 
So, when people ask "how dumb can you get?" I've learned that the answer is ... a heck of a lot dumber than you'd think. 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• THE MIGHTY OAK 

Environmentalism Is Hardly a Liberal Notion 
If environmentalism could be made to seem "conserva­tive," it would have a much broader appeal. Presently, environmentalism is a liberal viewpoint. Environmental radicals grab more than their share of media coverage. This lends a slightly radical, or at least liberal, air to the whole environmental movement. 
In people with more conserva­tivcly oriented soeial and politi­cal values, environmentalism is 
Sean equated with liberalism. Otherwise reasonable people dis­play a paranoid mistrust of envi­
O'Connor ronmentalism, lumping it in with deficit-spending, exorbitant wei­
fare, and the rest of the package. This is to the great detriment 

-----========:..._ 
Look at the generation that came of age in the '60s. They are hardly as radical in their approach to life as they once were. It's a good bet the same mellowing will occur in our own generation. If our commitment to sound environmental practices is founded on our commitment 
of the environmentalist message. It is hardly liberal. It is, in fact quite conservative, in a truer sense of the word. Conservative people are wary of change, tending to adhere to traditional values. Wholesale habitat destruction is change. The burgeoning suburban sprawl is not really traditional. People who are truly conservative should be exceedingly cautious of these things. 
Fundamentally, it does not make sense to keep gob­bling up finite land and resources with an insatiable voracity. Any moron can see that things will run out, probably sooner than later. And even before things run out, other subtle changes in climate, etc., will probably nail us. While the point can be argued as to how much of various things we have and how long they will last, it's better to err on the side of caution. This is a very conser­vative approach. Why throw all of our eggs in one basket, so to speak, hoping for wondrous technological advances that will allow an exponentially growing population to 

sinful to squander land away when the signs of abuse are quite apparent. 
Call upon Christian conservatives to heed the message of stewardship contained in Genesis, and then illustrate the glaring contradiction between stewardship and rap(~. Religion could be a powerful medium to convey an envi­ronmental message. 
Suggest the economic benefits of maintaining forests and rural landscapes in favor of plastic junk stores that are going to be stripped away in the first tornado, if they don't close first for lack of consumers in their bizarre niche. Point to the odd tendency of people to move out of beautiful old sections of the eity into the suburbs because they want to be more in the country; they then erect unseemly, oversized houses that are aesthetically inferior to the older buildings and have no land around them any­way, and just as much traffic. Highlight the idiocy in stripping away a belt of trees from the edge of a stream to create more cropland, only to have that anm of land to challenging the societal status quo-or being radical -and this desire to ehal­lenge fades-as it seems to with age in many people-then the conviction to the environment will likewise fade. 
Instead, environmentalists should 
invoke tradition. morality. and eommon sense to get their message across to the largest group. Tell people that wise usc of resources and land is the long-standing practice of the good person. It is, in fact, 


continue forever on already depleted resources? That is 
very liberal. 
While there is nothing wrong with occasionally going to 
outrageous, radical ends to prove the point. constantly 
doing so does not drive that point home to the majority of 
Americans, who are traditional in their social values. 
Chaining yourself to trees mainly appeals to young 
romantics. Environmental radicalism is a lot more attrac­
tive in a college sort of setting, much the same as a naked 
sit-in or a big pot-smoking festival. Take a bunch of 50­
and 60-year-old average Americans, tell them that sitting 
in the park naked smoking pot is going to save the world, 
and they still won't do it. They do not trust it because it is 
liberal. A few might do it, but the others will just arrest 
them. And then the world will end because the people in 
charge refused to be radical. Tell them instead that 
smoking pot naked was passed down from their grandfa­
thers, would bring economic stability, and is in the Bible, 
and they might do it. Not saying that these things about 
smoking pot naked are true (although it would probably 
stop wars if everybody did it), but you see the point. The 
majority of Americans do not want to push the envelope ·of societal norms. 
Maybe the radical message will soak into the younger generations (younger than us). But there is a danger it could be a faddish conviction. It's sexy to ride around preaching things that seem outrageous or forbidden or dangerous. When people are not tied down by careers, they jump on this bandwagon of hip because its the clos­est they're going to come to the '60s. But when they have to get a job, most jump off and get their hair cut. People are fickle, especially when their own money comes into the picture. And I'll put my own money on a hunch that most people our age are not as liberal as they claim. You wear a green shirt around here and you practically get gunned down from COBA (unless they mistake it for money-green). 

and much more washed away within a few years. This will hit the mark with the conservative-moderate majori­ty more so than calls to adopt radical lifestyles. 
If this fails, there is always the option of wholesale trickery. Witness: "So I was playing golf with Heagan the other day and he says to me, 'You know, Bob, the most patriotic and God-fearing thing you can do is plant a trnn. Yessir, that and sign petitions blocking careless develop­ment of new Wai-Marts, that's the only sure way to stop the communists.' I tell you, brother, that's is the most heart-stirring thing I ever heard. I went right home and donated all my money to the Nature Conservancy, made my yard a forest, and helped elect a new eongrnssman for the district who outlawed all further. urban flight. You could just see the Hed Tide a-rolling back." Or, "You hear what the Pope said yesterday? Clearcut logging is bad, really bad. Even cutting down trees to build a new church. He said, 'Sit in the woods and pray, instead. It's the only sure way to stop the communists.' From now on, I'll live in a house made from straw bales." Or. "So, I was playing a little pick-up game with Jordan the other day and he says, 'You know what, I won't play on any eourt made from tropical hardwoods, because tropical defor­estation is one of the greatest threats we face,· as he dunked in my face. I'm dedicating my life to saving the rainforest." 
Or, using computer techniques, Reagan, the Pope and Jordan could actually be made to say this on T.V. The influence on people would be enormous. 
In a seemingly contradictory footnote, I'm all for Greenpeace foiling the whalers. Keep up the good work. 
Sean O'Connor. ND '97, is a graduate student in English at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
·---~~ --~~-~~---~ 
_VIEWPOINT 
page 11

Wednesday, February 25, 1998 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR • COLUMN OF REASON 
Bengal Bouts: The Strong Fight for the Weak 
1967: Old Field House, Notre Dame, Ind. 

Nappy. The McGrath Brothers. Varsity Football Players. The Banked Dirt Track. The Murals. Calisthenics. Sweat. The Ring. Boxing at Notre Dame. 
"Strong bodies fight so that weak bodies are nourished." 
It was obvious who the "strong bodies" were ... but we had no idea of the true impact of the Bengal Bouts on the "weak" ones. 
Over the next three decades, I had the great fortune to help teach thousands of young men (and beginning last year, women), and at the same time be "taught" invaluable and unmatched lessons m·yself. I witnessed hun­dreds of the finest amateur boxing matches ever fought. 
Like the night the two super heavyweight football players, Ken McAffee and Ross Browner. came out in Hawaiian swim trunks because our normal blue or gold trunks barely covered one leg! They went at it for three rounds. knocking each other down once each. I don't even remember who won. Just before that, Ross' brother, Jim Browner, had fought linebacker Doug Becker in one of the most exciting and toughest matches in the history of the Bengal Bouts! These two fights left the crowd of 10,000 people on their feet yelling and screaming. 
Most importantly, I watched these young men with varying degrees of skill and stamina fight their hearts out ... leaving nothing in the ring. These participants have gone on to careers in medicine or business or law or social service, etc. 
Outside of the ring, we heard and felt the influence of the Holy Cross Order on these Mission Bouts ... Father Tom Brennan and Father"Tuffy" Hyan ... Father Hesburgh and Father Joyce ... Father Ed Goedert and Father .lim Bannis ... and now Father Malloy, Father Bill Seech and many others. 
As one of the primary supporters of the Holy Cross Mission in Bangladesh, we had heard from these and other visiting priests and broth­ers the impact of the Bengal Bout's contribution each vear. 
But: To hear is to forget. 
To see is to remember. 
To do is know. 

Now it was time "TO,SEE." 
1997: Notre Dame College. Dhaka. Bangladesh 

.Journal Notes. A 42-hour trip. An all night train from Nizhni Novgorod to Moscow. Flew to London ... to Delhi ... to Dhaka. Picked up at the airport by Brother Rodney, one of the finest men I've met in my life, but terrible delusions of Bobby Hahal at the Indy 500! Literally, a sea of people: walking ... rickshaws ... "baby" taxis ... cars and trucks. 
Arrived at the oasis of the walled complex of Notre Dame College ... and immediately felt the impact of the Holy Cross priests and brothers. Took a tour with Father Joe, the president of Notre Dame College, and felt his passion and commitment (reflected by everyone else) for the secondary school, the college, the seminary, the orphanage, the medical center and the trade school. · 
The mix of two cultures was obvious: two 
cows wandering on the "main quad" ... next to 
a basketball court and a three-wall handball 
court (created by the "remains" of an old build­
ing). · 
Sunday dinner was one of the highlights of my 
life. Thirteen Holy Cross priests and brothers 
sat and discussed Notre Dame, boxing, and 
their work in Bangladesh. Some were native 
priests educated and ordained at Notre D'ame 
College ... many were Americans who had dedi­
cated the majority of their life to helping the 
poor on the other side of the world. 
Father George Pope, who had once been bay­
oneted in a village, had just returned (on his 
seooter) from his daily visit to the hospital. 
Father Dick Tim, a brilliant botanist/biologist 
who has spent the better part of his life in 
BcngaVBangladesh, was the reigning champion 
handball player (played with a tennis ball and 
no gloves) Brother Rodney, from Wichita to 
Dhaka, now leaving his imprint on the world. 
Father Joe Levaine, the Newport, Rhode Island 
transplant, who ran the local parish, and helped 
out at one of Mother Teresa's orphanages. 
Slept in Father Hannis's room (who happened 
to be back in the states as part of their two­
months-every-three-years rotation) Concrete floor ... shower head in the ceiling of the bath­room ... bookcases ... reading chair ... a desk ... a mosquito net and a fan ... a husk mattress. 
Woke at 4:30 a.m. to a Moslem "prayer" being blasted from the local mosque. The speakers seemed to be aimed directly at my room! 
Went to 5:30 a.m. mass with Brother Rodney, Father Steven and 50 first-year students. Another powerful and moving experience as the students sang and prayed. 
Visited the trade school and met with Brother Tom ... lunched with Father Benjamin, the provincial at the Monroe ·House ... and visited St. Gregory's Church, St. Francis Kindergarten and School, and Mother Teresa's Orphanage with Father Joe and Brother Rodney. 
(I was aCtually meeting those "children" our mothers told us about when we didn't eat all of our food.) 
Walking through the bazaar area within the slum was an incredible attack on the senses: the smell of the food, the incense, the lack of any sewer facilities ... the sight of the stalls and the vehicles and the street urchins ... the sound of the p~ople, laughter and the wailing from the mosques ... and the feel of both poverty and hope. 
Thirty-six hours with the finest men on the face o( the earth, and at 37,000 feet on my way back to Delhi, a verse from the Bengali poet, Rabindranath Tagore, came to mind: "This song that I came to sing remains unsung to this day. I have spent my days in stringing and unstringing my instrument ... There is only the agony of wishing in my heart." 
I know one thing. Not one of these priests or brothers has· left their song "unsung"... and there is no "agony of wishing in their hearts." They are doing exactly what they want to do ... and what they were meant to do. They are bringing meaning to the lives of those less for­tunate. 
Jan. 13, 1998, Notre Dame, Ind. 
It was time "TO DO." 
THE NEED: These dedicated priests and brothers of the Holy Cross Missions in· Bangladesh use the current annual contribution from the Bengal Bouts to help run the Mission. Now there is an additional need for new build­ings. 
THE GOAL The boxing club's goal this year is to generate $40,000 from ticket sales, ads, and patrons/sponsors. (1996 was a record year with a check for $23,000!) 
What is the impact the proceeds from the Bouts have on the Mission? In Bangladesh cur­rency, 43 taki equals one U.S. dollar. A haircut and a shave were the equivalent of 25 cents! A taxi ride was 75 cents. 
Educating a seminarian was l,700 taki or $40 
U.S. for a month! Feeding a family of five for one day was $1. 
I learned from Father Joe Pishota that the plans to replace the commissary/dining hall would cost around $25,000 U.S. In fact, he can complete his new five-::;tory college building with classrooms and a library for around $200,000! 
WHAT YOU CAN DO TO HELP: Notre Dame is truly a "caring place;" and here's another chance for you to give and to make an impact. 
1. 
Participate! Stop by the boxing room and learn more about the men's and women's pro­gram. 

2. 
Buy a ticket to the Bouts. (February 23, 26 and 27) In fact, buy lots of them. 


3. Help sell tickets. 
4. 
Take out an ad for your dorm, your club, your summer employer, or your dad's company. 

5. 
Give money. Make an investment/contribu­tion to the Bengal Bout Missions ... from your­self ... from a rich uncle ... a doting grandparent ... or dad/mom's business. Drop the check by, in person, and see what the program is all about. 


One of Notre Dame's most revered teachers, Frank O'Malley, is often quoted on his famous line about" ... blood on the bricks." Now, the occasional "blood on the canvas helps the 'strong bodies' nourish the weaker ones!" 
Collectively, this year's group of boxers have done over one million push-ups ... two million sit-ups; and three million jumping jacks (in 40 days) to prepare themselves for the Bouts ... and help the Missions. Come out and do your part. 
Tom Suddes Participant and referee of the Bengal Bouts, and coach of the boxing program February 20, 1998 
Conference to Focus on Architecture 

Editor's Note: This is an installment of a series written by students within the School ofArchitecture. These columns, under the byline Column ofReason, will deal with the built environment ofNotre Dame, focusing in particular on recent additions and changes to our cam­pus. 
Jeremy Welsh 

During this upcoming weekend, 23 architecture firms from around the country will be arriving at Notre Dame to give presentations of their work and, on Monday, to interview both graduating seniors as well as underclass­men looking for internships. Last year, nine firms came. This career symposium has been organized solely by stu­dents, most specifically Notre Dame's chapter of the American Institute of Architecture Students, in order to help place Notre Dame graduates at firms throughout the 

nation. 
Although a majority of the firms employ Notre Dame graduates, that is not the only rea­son they are paying the University a vis_it. Notre Dame graduates are being sought out by firms for their ability and knowledge -skills in drafting, perspective and watercolor render­ing, sketching, and knowledge of propor­tion, sustainability of construction, and of the importance of precedent. 
Although the firms that are eoming this upcoming weekend are all from the United States, Notre Dame graduates have been employed by firms in Europe, including a number in London. Graduates have also been employed by the prestigious Prince of Wales Institute in England as instructors. 

In our own country, alumni are employed coast to coast, from San Francisco to New York City. Two graduates even have been involved with the designing and construc­tion of the new bookstore and visitors' center with The SIL/AIM Collaborative, a firm from Connecticut. 
Much of the success of recent graduates can be attrib­uted to the quality of education that is being taught at the University. This education, as you may know, is centered around traditional architecture, specifically Western clas­sieism. Notre Dame first began to focus on this architec­ture nine years ago, when Professor Thomas Gordon Smith became ehairman. The 1997-98 school year is the last year for Chairman Smith's term. I trust that the University will realize the importance of the education we are receiving here in Bond Hall and will strive to choose a new chairman to carry on this tradition. 
Jeremy Welsh is a fifth-year Architecture student. This column appears every other Wednesday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

;ACCENT

page 12 Wednesday, February 25, 1998 
Welcome To the Lenten Season 
By NORA MEANY 
Saint Mary's Accem Editor 
I notiend an int<~resting shift in the campus popula­tions between Notre Dame and Saint Mary's in the past week. Massive caravans of students headed out of town for a holiday of crowded partying and gluttonous dubachnry in New Orleans. In the absence of Bridget's, it is easy to see why such a release is need­ed. However, one must question the motivation for such a mass exodus from the. grey of South Bend, to the flesh and beads of the general south. Mardi Gras time was upon us. 
And now, as many green-faced students head back home, the aftermath must be dealt with as well. The party is over. Fat Tuesday has passed. The Catholics of the community must recon­cile with the ghosts of their faith in this, the holiest time of the year. 
It's Lent. Can you smell the repen­tance in the air? 
It's easy to lind the telltale signs of the Easter season on the campus, if you take the time to observe. Walk into the dining halls on an average Friday, and you'll notice the absence of meat (if you'd like to call it that), replaced by fish and every dlCese-based itnm imaginable. The baeon bits in the salad bar, I'm told, do not even escape the eager eye of the dining hall stafTers paid to protect our souls. For one day a week, the shadow of the fast falls upon both cam­pusns. 
Likewise, ashes might strangely appear on the foreheads of Catholics everywhere. This is not a nod to fading hygiene standards, but rather a profession of faith in symbol of Ash Wednesday ... That's today, by the way, for all of those who just woke up. However, it is a one-shot deal. Tomorrow will not be Ash Thursday. 
Not to confuse you, but this is another day of fasting on the Catholic calender. So if you are reading this in the dining hall, you may want to take a quick peek around to prepare you for what is in store for the next few weeks. However, don't panic. After Ash Wednesday, the cycle is a once a week thing untillloly Thursday. But that's a few weeks off. so I won't crowd your head with premature information. 
Another way you can tell it is Lent is by the self­denial, known as a sacrifice, in gratitude to Jesus for all lie gave up for us. Although He died on the cross for the sins of humanity, Lent sacrificing is a trait familiar mainly with the Catholics. 
Giving up something for Lent serves many purposes. It is a prime way to profess love and gratitude to Jesus and God, and is also an excellent conversation starter during a bland night, or possibly a getting-to-know-you device with the hottie you've been eyeing in class. 

However, the sad soul to professes that he or she will give up some controversial habit (such as shownring) should be approached with caution in the coming weeks. 
Likewise, your Lent sacrifices can givn you valuahln insights into your own personality. If you cannot say aloud what you are giving up for Easter without weep­ing openly, sweating, shaking or laughing uncontrol­lably, maybe you should look within to uncover furtlwr problems that might be at hand. The fact that a per• son cannot physically go four weeks without an outside substance or influence speaks volumes in itself. 
I asked a few people what they arc giving up for Lent, and the answers were mostly run-of-the-mill. Some opted to forgo cookies or Wolfies, citing a love 
that would justify the religious sacrilien. 
Others gave the tongue-in-cheek rcsponsn 
expected when questioned point blank. "''m 
going to give up crack," was a popular answer. "Sex" ranked high up on the list as

Sc..a t4o well. Even the knee-slapping, "''m giving 
"What are you giving up for Lent?" is to an extent a loaded question. Not only do you find out the religion of said individual by bow they respond, but their social, hygienic and economic habits as well. For example, the person who answers the question saying that they are giving up an accepted substance for the 40 days (chocolate, pizza, cigarettes, alcohol) are rea­sonable enough to further a conversation with. 
up being Catholic for Lent" was heard more than once. But these humorous replies only highlighted the fact that the Lenten sacrifice only hnld meaning if it included something given up that was otherwise part of one's normal routine. 
One answer, in particular. warmed my heart. A friend of mine gave the answer that she was not going to go th<~ way of the masses and deny herself a guilty, mundane daily pleasure. Hather, slw was 

planning to make a concnrtnd effort to b(~ nicer to other people. This was touching. The above comment brought to my att(mtion 
the flipside to the Lenten sacrifice argument. You 
don't necessarily have to "give up" ·something for Lent, but can consciously add a positive habit to your daily routine as well. Trying to make your bed evnry day, being nice to the roommates, and not gossiping are three ideas for a rule-breaking spin on the Easter tradition. For those salmon in the group that choose to swim up the proverbial stream instead of following the current, I wholly endorse such a practice. 
Thumbs up for the girl or guy who adds saying a rosary daily for their Lenten sacrifice, along with the individual who nixes chocolate as well. Each sacrifice, if followed consistently and attempted in earnest, should be applauded. 


By ARWEN DICKEY Wednesday Night Television Correspondent 
D
avid's song is played on the radio. Noah and Donna are making out when the song comes on, and Noah gets mad when 
Donna wants to listen. Donna calls David to con­
gratulate him and Valerie gets upset. Val tells 
Noah he should worry about David and Donna but 
David tells Noah he has nothing to worry about. 
David and Donna go to the mall to buy a stereo 
for Noah imd.hide when they see Valerie because 

it is easier than having to explain. David and Donna get in a ear a<:cidont in which Donna hurts her back and starts to take addictive painkillers. David and Donna show up together at the After Dark and Valerie and Noah are angry and don't believe their story which is the truth. Noah gt~ts totally bombed and yells at Donna. 
Noah's half brother, Josh enters the picture. Noah hates him but decides to talk to him. Josh wants Noah to be his best man in a wedding where Josh doesn't want to marry the girl. Josh tells Noah that everything he hated Noah for was every· thing he wanted to be. 
Valerie vents to .Josh about her relationship problems. Josh pours Val a glass of wine and then knocks her purse otT the bar so Valerie has to pick it up and he can put drugs into her wino. Much to Josh's displeasure, Noah and Valerie decide that they are too drunk to go home and go upstairs in the After Dark and kiss. Valerie wakes up naked the next morning and Noah tells her that "this never happened." David eomHs to the After Dark and sees Valerie is not feeling well. He takes her to tho hospital and the doctor suspects that she was given roofies, or the date rape drug. Valerie doesn't remember consenting or actually having sex. The doctor says they will test for the drug and take forensic evidence. 
Noah and Donna make up at the boat. Josh comes over and asks Noah about Valerie and tells Noah that Donna won't fmd out about it from him. Then David and Valerio show up. While David tries to attaek Noah. Valerie accuses Noah of raping Jwr. 
Brandon and Steve are upset because they have no dates for Valentine's. Day. Steve gets set up with three different girls and doesn't like any of them. Then he meets a mystery woman who uses him to get away from her date and then leaves. Later Steve gets pulled over by a police officer who turns out to be the mystery woman. She lots Steve off with her number and a warning. 
Brandon also gets set up for Valentine's Day but stays home to leave messages on Kelly's machine. Kelly is off with Jeff at a hotei where they plan to sleep together for the first time. Kelly says she can't sleep with Jeff because she is in love with someone else. Kelly goes to Brandon's house and tells Brandon she loves him. Bt·andon tells her that he will never cheat on her again and Kelly says she know that he won't. · 
TONIGHT: Noah claims that he didn't rape Valerie. Noah admits to Donna that he did have sex with Valerie. David and Steve are fighting because Steve doesn't believe Valerie. Brandon asks how anyone could make up a story like that and Kelly says that people are capable of anything. Valerie tells Noah that there is going to be a civil trial and she wants $10 mHlion in damages. 
Cha~lie asks Kirstin to take Cln;udia an? Owen if he ?ies because Julia. and Bailey are too young to be ultimately 111 charge. Juha and Bailey get upset at this. Kirstin talks to Paul abouttaking the kids but he says ho doesn't 
want children of his own and won't agree to caring for Claudia and Owen. 
The Salinger home is a total wreck. The secretary from Claudia's school Jell messages about Claudia missing school so Julia and Bailey hear it. They catch Claudia at home and yell at her but she just gives them attitude. Julia and Bailey decide to not tell Charlie. Julia and Bailey are supposed to talk with the office about Claudia's behavior but neither of them can make it' and nobody shows up which makes Claudia even more upset. When they finally meet with the coun­selor, on a day that Claudia is not in school again, she says that Charlie should be there since he Is the guardian. Julia and Bailey have to explain that Charlie is in the hospital and has cancer. 
A man from the Child Protective Services come to the Salinger home where Claudia is taking care of Owefi. The man asks if Claudia could get a hold of Julia in case of an emergency but Claudia can't because Julia works temp jobs. He t{lkes Claudia and Owen with him: Bailey, Julia and Kirstin go to Child Protective Services where they are told that it needs to be determined if Claudia and Owen are getting proper care and give temporary custody to Kirstin. Charlie is very upset a.I,ld wants to go to Child Protective Services but he is· still in the hospital and running a fever~ Charlie yells at Julia. and Bailey and says that they can't even handle the kids for two weeks. 
CPS says that they think the kids are being neglected and that Bailey and Julia are in way over their heads. Claudia is not capable of taking care of Owen and they are one step away from disaster so the kids may be given to someone else. Charli.e yells at Claudia for her behavior. Claudia tells .Julia that everyone has someone except her -Julia has Griffin and Bailey has Annie. Julia gets Griffin and they goto CPS together and try to convince the guy that they ean take care of the kids. Julia agrees to get a job where she vvill be home when Claudia anct Owen get home from school. Gr:i:ffin says he makes enough money to do that. Julia says she is not thinking abbut college and that they are in it long term and Griffin agrees. The kids get to come. back home and Charlie agrees to let Julia and Griffin be in charge of them. Charlie gets discharged from the hospital. Charlie, Julia and Bailey pick up Owen and Claudia at Kirstin's. 
In the meal!timo, Griffln is. getting seduced at work. Rosalie from the bike shop has got her stghts ~et ~n Gri:ffi~. They eat lunch together and Griffin does a big favor for her. Hosalie kisses Grtffin but he stops her and tells her that he is mar­ried. Rosalie gets upset when Julia shows up at the bike shop. 
TONIGHT: Julia is in class for Bailey and even uses his name. Griffin tolls Rosalie that he can't do it but then grabs Rosalie and kisses her anyway. Annie gets really drunk and tries to get Bailey to drink also. · 
-----~-~--------~--~-----~-----~-~-~--~-.--------..------.-......-.--~~,_--...,....,.~----------------.-­
page 13 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, February 25, 1998 ... 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Illinois eyeing Big Ten title 
Associated Press points down to get within 54-who had left the game, but 44 before Luke Recker was -Heldman hit three of four on BLOOMINGTON, Ind. knocked hard to the floor, the technicals against Knight. At least Bob Knight didn't starting a chain of events that Turner added another free have to stick around to sec the sent Knight to the locker room throw seconds later, and finish. with 9:37 to go. Heldman followed with a bas­
Kevin Turner, Jarrod Gee Knight, who already had ket as Illinois pushed the lead and Matt Heldman each received a technical foul in the to 61-46. scored 16 points Tuesday first half, protested right away Three-pointers by Lewis and night as No. 22 Illinois beat that Recker's shot should have A.J. Guyton, who led Indiana Indiana 82-72, giving the counted as a basket because with 25 points, helped pull the Hoosiers a second straight of goaltending. Then, when he Hoosiers within 77-70 before double-digit loss for the first walked on the court to check Illinois got its final five points time in eight years. on .Recker, who was still lying on free throws in the last 
Knight was ejected in the on the floor, he was given a minute. second half after picking up second technical, and an auto­Illinois, which beat Indiana his second and third technical matic ejection, by referee Ted by two points at Champaign at fouls of the game and later Valentine. the start of the conference called the officiating "the Knight then flew into a r.age season, trailed 8-3 with four greatest travesty" he had ever and received a third technical. turnovers in the first four min-· seen as a coach. He started to leave the floor, utes. The Illini caught the 
Illinois (21-8, 13-3 Big Ten) then turned and started walk­Hoosiers midway through the can tie Michigan State for the ing toward Valentine as if he period, then built a seven­conference regular-season was going to say something. point lead as Indiana managed championship if Purdue beats He walked very close "to only one field goal over a the Spartans on Sunday. Valentine but didn't say a seven-minute span. Indiana (18-9, 9-6), whose word as he went by. Knight The Hoosiers pulled within 112-64 loss at Michigan on kicked something as he left three on two free throws by Sunday was its second-worst the floor and headed to the Charlie Miller and two more in Knight's 27 years, finishes runway. free throws by Larry at Iowa on Saturday. Michael Lewis hit two free Richardson on the same pos­
Indiana rallied from 17 throws i.n place of Recker, session after a flagrant foul. 

Associated Press here." Seattle said during in LOS ANGELES November it wouldn't discuss 
Randy Johnson, still angry a new contract for Johnson, at the Seattle Mariners, says who will get $6 million in the team's refusal to extend 1998 and becomes eligible for 
his contract "is like me telling free agency after the season. 
Pull up a couch. See the tomato? 

my wife I want a divorce and The Mariners discussed trad­
Then you're not only sane, 

not leaving." ing the 6-foot-1 0 left-hander "I have no reason to think but didn't find an offer they
but hungry as well. 

I'll end my career here," the liked.
Clike Pavlov's dog when he heard the bell.) 
Los Angeles Times quoted "It seems like every spring,Good thing Fazoli's is nearby. 
Johnson as saying in a story they've talked about tradingpublished Tuesday. "It's over me." he said. "How's that
Head on over for 


and done with. They told me going to make me feel? I have
a Sampler Platter and 

they have no intention of giv­legitimate reasons to be upset,
unlimited free breadsticks 

ing me an extension. but I'm trying to be the bigger
''I'm here. I'll do my job to man here. I'm a professional,the best of my ability. But if I've worked hard to get back 
when you dine in. 
You'd be crazy to pass it up. 

I'm not here, it's not because to this level after back surgeryof something I've done. I have (in 1996). I have a lot of all the reasons to want to stay respect from my peers, and in Seattle. My wife's family is 
I'm not going to jeopardizefrom there, the fans have been 
that by not showing up for great. I don't want to be trad­
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 
camp, because that would
317 W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 

ed. I'm just disappointed with ·­
only hinder my performance
1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 

everything that's happened during the season." 


THE CHANNEL PROG 
•SOCIAL 
SCIENCE •TEACHING 

•PARISH 
MINISTRY •BUSINESS 

•LIVE 
IN COMMUNITY 

•LEADERSHIP 
FORMATION 

•FAITH-SHARING 
WITH OTHER


.. 
YOUNG ADULTS 

ATTENTION SENIORSII 
WM 

Looking for a Teacher Service Program for next year? 
Go to the Center for Social Concerns for information or call or write for an application. 
Sister Deanna Sabetta. CND New York Teacher Volunteer Program Department of Education 1011 First Avenue New York. New York 10022 212-371-1011 EX 2803 
... 

Stop by CSC Friday, February 20th between l & 3 pm to meet 
with Jen Tilghman, N.D. '95 

----~~~--­
Wednesday, February 25, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
• SOFTBAll 
Team off to a slow start 
By JASON DEANGELIS and fell to the host Bulls of South Howeve-r, the night was not 
PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS Florida, 3-1. The 1Oth-ranked a complete loss as the squad 
Sports Writers Bulls paved their way to victo­posted a 7-2 upset victory over ry with a three-run, three-hit ninth-ranked Kansas. The Notre Dame softball third inning that knocked The Irish capitalized on two 
team began the season on a starting Irish pitcher Angela Jayhawk errors to jump out to 
rough note this past weekend Bessolo out of the contest. a quick 3-0 lead in the top of 
losing four of five games in The Irish attempted a late the first. The Irish clung to 
the Gladstones Tournament in comeback, scoring a run in that same margin until the 
Tampa, Fla. the ninth, but in the end fell sixth when they tacked on On Friday night, the Irish short. three insurance runs to secure the 7-2 final. 
Senior right-handed pitcher Kelly Nichols recorded her first victory of the 1998 cam­paign by shutting out the Jayhawks for five innings and allowing just two hits. 
Saturday night the team struggled through two disap­pointing defeats at the hands of the Auburn Tigers and Depaul Blue Demons. Squandered opportunities proved to be the deciding fac­tor in the Auburn contest, as the Irish left eight runners on base including six in scoring position. · 
The Tigers, on the other hand, took full advantage of their only scoring threat by converting four hits into four runs in the fifth. 
Despite adding only one more hit in the contest, the Tigers were able to hold off the Irish. The Irish scored two runs in the top of the sev­enth, but fell 4-2. 
In the nightcap, the 24th­ranked Blue Demons needed 

Pitcher Angela Bessolo took the loss in Friday night's contest against
nine innings to put Notre 

tenth-ranked South Florida. 
Dame away 5-4. After falling 

runs in the top half of the Kansas in its first game and
behind 2-0 in the top of the 

ninth inning, which proved too lost a squeaker in extra
second, the Irish mounted a 

much to overcome for the innings.
late seventh inning rally. 

Irish who managed only two The Jayhawks avenged
Junior left fielder Amy Laboe 

runs in the bottom frame. Friday night's loss to the Irish
delivered a two run single to 

After posting a 1-3 record in by knocking them out of the 
center with one out in the 

the round robin portion of the tournament. The team will
seventh to tie the score. 

tournament the Irish were attempt to improve in this
After a scoreless eighth, the 

seeded fourth for bracket play weekend's NFCA Leadoff
Blue Demons posted three 

on Sunday. Notre Dame drew Classic . 



·Sales becomes UConn's all-time leading scorer 
Associated Preas moved her past Kerry B~scom career, she was met by her ing Saturday's game to get the four to six months. 
into first place on the school's teammates at midcourt, while record and she had 27 when As a freshman, Sales playedPHIIADELPHlA career scoring list. receiving a standing ovation she went down with 9:48 left in on the toam that finished 35-0 Nykesha Sales limped into In a deal pre-arranged by the from the crowd. the victory over Notre Dame. and won the national champi­Connecticut's record book. coaches, Sales, who was wear­Connecticut called a timeout She she was honored in a onship with a 70-64 win over 
The senior forward for the ing a large brace from her foot to get her out of the game and senior ceremony before the Tennessee. second-ranked Huskies saw her to just under her knee, was when the timeout ended, the game and the win dinched the In overy year since, tho
-· 
career end Saturday when she allowed to score off the game's ·Huskies stayed in· their huddle Big East regular-season title for Huskies have been Big East reg­ruptured her Achilles' tendon opening tap when Villanova to let Villanova score and tie the the Huskies. ular-season champs and playedagainst Notre Dame. lined all five of its players in its game. Sales is expected to have in tho NCAA tournament, reach­
But on Tuesday night, she offensive end of the floor. Bascom played for surgery on her right foot some­ing_the Final Four again her was allowed to score against After Sales scored the 2,177th Connecticut from 1988-1991. time next week. Team doctors sophomore year and losing last Villanova and those two points and 2.178th points of her Sales needed 29 points enter-said normal recovery is from year in the rogional finals. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, induding all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classificds for content withour issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
0¢¢ THE COPY SHOP 000 laFoniJne Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am • 7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon • Midnight 
CALL631-COPY 
Students and Instructors wanted. We are test running a new, two-day seminar. the Win/Win Class. at no charge to you. designed to increase creat1ve thinking. and improve rela­tionships of all kinds. Call 243·S632 for a reservation. 
WANTED 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED please call219-271-0633 
Russian. 7 yrs exp. Rus. teacher for foreigners. Private & group lessons all levels & translations Yulia: 243-1079 leave message 
Student Worker needed at the Office of Students with Disabilities for 1 hour a day 
(12:00 noon • 1:00 pm) three days a week (T, W, Th) to answer phones and light office work. Please call1-7157. 
FOR RENT 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW & FALL.272-6551 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
ALL SIZE HOMES 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
232-2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ISTRY 219-291-7153 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 . 
POTATO HOUSE S BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
New 5 bdrm, 2 bath home with LA. FA, outdoor deck, & 2 car garage within walking distance of campus. Has AIC, gas. heat. stove, refrig, GID. DIW, W & D. $1500 per mo. 232-4527. 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE 
'98-"99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar. 
WID. V-Ball Ct. 162S Ponage. 
234-3S31 I 273-04S2 
LFORSALE 
Mac PowerBook 190cs. 8/500. 
$ 500. Call Leopold at 273 9275. 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $225 219-S62-20S2 
PERSONAL 
Word association: 
LeTierS 
IRISH CONNECTION 
FUN 

Off-Broadway Musical at Notre Dame? SEALOVE, MANAGER 
original musical direct from NY 
Washington Hall 

Feb 26, 27, 2S @ 7:30 
$7 ($4 students) 

Buy Tix at lafonune 
The fabulous LeTTerS will take center stage at the IRISH CON­NECTION this FRIDAY, FEBRU­ARY 27th at 10 p.m. Come witness the only cutting trOmpet in town and our own version of the bearded lady. Failure is not an option. 
san antonio has relocated to ire­land, sorry 
to all those who read these for my benefit, it is all over now it's been fun 
coli­

sorry, I can't take this any more. 
it is a far far better thing that I do now... d.a. 
thanks for moving the homework dr. palmieri 
trinity guiness flat above a pub trips to europe skiing in the alps are you ready john 
I don't want to study for my test tomorrow I don't like lagrange 
Uh, they're plotting. 
J got dibs on the darkroom! 
The Filipino American Student Organization presents: 
I!FIESTANG FILIPINO lVII A Night of Filipino Food and Dance 
Sat, Feb.28, 6pm Stepan Center $5 stud. $7 GA 
Word association: LeTier8 IRISH CONNECTION FUN 
Jamie. 
Thanks a bunch for doing these classifies. I know you probably saved me a whole three minutes. Your skilss are appreciated and they might even be missed. 
Hey-did you know... 
We"re open early, late, and weekends for your convenience! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFonune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car· ing professional couple would love to provide a new born with love. joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­S00-4S4-7011 Pin #4523 
Word association: 
LeTTerS 
IRISH CONNECTION 
FUN 
RENT 162S PORTAGE '9S-"99! 
234-3S31/273-04S2 


-.-­
-
page 15

Wednesday, February 25, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvemen( in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
0 

Dan Toolan is a senior English major from River Forest, Illinois and currently resides off-campus. Dan has been involved in a number o.f RecSports activities during his time here at Notre Dame. He has been a four year captain of the Men's Water Polo club and led his team to a 14-1 record in the Midwest Division this past fall. He was also recognized for his individual accomplishments by being named to the Midwest Division first team all-conference unit. Dan has run the lnnertube Water Polo tournament for Late Night Olympics and has officiated Co-Ree lnnertube Water Polo for the last three years. Currently, Dan is training for his first year of competition for the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 
...-...& 
VARSITY SHOP
...., 
"Specializing-in Authentic 

' '!Ill '--Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 


&'I­
R~=r~ 
"Specializing in Authentic 



&.._ 

merchandise courtesy of <£~ and the located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
&.._ 
v••o; is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
-

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, February 25, 1998 
• BASEBAll 

Irish set to take on Central Michigan in home opener 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST Hurricanes, the team sees the weekend, Mainieri said. Editor-in-Chief extra game as an opportunity "Every time Aaron goes to the to get some extra playing time, mound, he has shown he can Thanks to a last-minute .-----====---,..,....,.,., compete," Mainieri said. 
addition to the schedule, the "He's shown that he can baseball squad will have a throw strikes." chance to put last weekend's Heilman's appearance debaele in Florida behind it as a starter is part of the narlier than expected. general experimenting 
The Irish (2-6) will play their • _____. that occurs at the begin­
1 
home opener at 4 p.m. today 1• ~RB!aBJtMjl ning of the season, against Central Michigan in a Mainieri said. game that was added to the "Aaron's a big guy at 6­schedule Monday. A forecast foot-4 and 200 pounds. of dry weather. and the fact He's got a strong arm, he that the Irish's Feb. 15 game can throw his fastball in at the University of New the high 80s !miles per Orleans was rained out. ..._____.:.....:.....;;..._. ---------'-' hour]. and he's got good prompted the addition, head movement on his fast­coach Paul Mainieri said. Mainieri added. ball," Mainieri said. "If he 
After giving up 62 runs on 58 "Our players are excited to go throws a good game, he could hits and 22 walks in a three­back out and put this weekend return to the rotation." game series against the Miami behind them," he ·said. Notre Dame defeated Central 
"Basically we're Michigan 14-9 last season, looking at this thanks in part to six RB!s by game as another catcher Jeff Wagner. chance to play." In the Hurricanes' three­

Freshman game sweep of the Irish, poor righthander pitching control and a lack of Aaron Heilman clutch hitting hurt Notre Dame will make his severely. But more than any­first career start thing, according to Mainieri, in today's game. the Irish simply played a team Pitching in that has been clicking on all relief, Heilman cylinders. has struck out "We just ran into a buzzsaw," eight and he said. "We went up against walked one one of the best hitting teams cled 32 home runs. .222 over the weekend, includ­while compiling that I've ever seen. They've The margin of defeat was the ing .222 when there were two a 1.08 earned gone from being a speed team worst for the Irish since a 25-0 outs. "That's going to be a point run average. to being a group of guys that loss to Illinois in 1950. to focus on. 
The 8-to-1 can hit the ball out of the Mainieri said he is confident "Our pitchers haven't been strikeout-to­park." that the team will bounce back aggressive enough [either]." he walk ratio rep­In Saturday's 27-2 loss, the for today's game. but added said. "Miami had the best hit­resents the type Irish surrendered 15 of the that it needs to be more aggres­ting team that I've ever seen. of control the runs on six home runs. But sive, both in pitching and in hit­and I think our pitchers tried Irish need from such offensive fireworks have ting. too much to nibble at the cor­their pitchers, been the rule rather than the "Our hitters have to attack ners. When you do that too especially after exception for Miami this sea­more, rather than being passive much, you're bound to walk 
Courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information giVing Up 2 2 son. In 12 games, the seventh­at the plate," Mainieri said of a people."Junior catcher Jeff Wagner drove in six runs in last walks over the ranked Hurricanes have mus-squad that batted a collectiveyear's game with Central Michigan. 





The pursuit ofour dreams has resulted in the creation of three companies. 
DC Systems Consulting (1987) 
Provides management and technical consulting to a broad spectrum of clients from Arthur Andersen to Zurich-American Insurance. 
DC Systems Education (1992) 
Trains software developers world-wide how to write their own industry specific applications. 
DC Systems Software (1994) 

Creates software licenses that provide full servzce customer management for large corporate call centers and sales force teams. 
Meet DC Systems on March 3rd at 7:00 p.m. 
in the LaFortune Student Center Foster Room. 
Refreshments provided • Interviews March 4 &5 






U IYITEMI U ITITEMI U IYITEMI IC IYITEMI SOFTWARE CONSULTING EDUCATION 
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT 

Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 
---~ ---------~-·----~ 
Wednesday, February 25, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 
Wi\rriors down the Knicks on their homecourt, 87-82 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

The Golden State Warriors became the first Western Conference team to win at 
Madison Square Garden this season, stunning the New York Knicks 87-82 Tuesday night. 
It was just the fourth road win and 12th victory overall for the Warriors, who got a good bounce for a key offensive rebound with 15 seconds left after receiving an amazing shot from Muggsy Bogues with 90 seconds left. 
Bogues, with the sho.t clock 



campus! 
Dome Designs creates web pages for various clubs, organizations, and activities at Notre Dame. With a complete staff of professional and technical designers, Dome Designs strives to meet your informational and advertising needs. We hope that you take the time to see the quality of our work. 
Bengal Bouts is our first client. Corne see what we did for Bengal Bouts and learn what we can do for you!! 


THE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE 

y 

E A R 
s 
MabuhaN' ng KalaN'aan 
Filfpfno Cufsfne anb Culfuual Enfeufafnmenf 
February 28, 6:00 PM 
STEPAN CENTER $7 GENERAL, $5 STUDENTS DRESSY ATTIRE REQUESTED 
Tickets available at LaFortune Info Desk Brought to you by FASO and OMSA 

running out, hit a lunging, off­balance left-handed hook shot from 14 feet away to give Golden State a 83-78 lead. 
After the Knicks pulled within three, Donyell Marshall missed a 22-footer as the shot' clock wound down. But the ball bounced into tlie corner and was retrieved by Clarence Weatherspoon, setting up two free throws by Bogues that clinched it with 12.7 seconds left. 
Marshall had 19 points and 12 rebounds to lead the Warriors, who entered the game 0-8 on the road against Eastern Conference teams. 
Allan Houston scored 25 for New York, which had won all seven of its previous home games against teams from the West. 
The loss for the Knicks, who suffered from poor shot selec­tion and weak interior defense, undid much of the good karma that had emerged as the team won six of seven games since the All-Star break. 
After being booed off the court following a 30-point first half, the Knicks came out and hit seven of their first 10 shots in the third quarter. 

Heat 104, Jazz 102 
SALT LAKE CITY 
Tim Hardaway had four points and an assist in the final 48 seconds as the Miami Heat fought off the Utah Jazz and won their eighth straight road game, 104-102 on Tuesday night. 
Utah missed two shots in the final five seconds that could have tied or won the game. Karl Malone missed an open jumper with five seconds left and after Vashon Lenard missed two free throws for Miami, John Stockton's desper­ation 3-pointer from midcourt fell short. 
Lenard and Alonzo Mourning had 20 points apiece to lead the Heat, who won their season­best seventh straight game. Utah had its seven-game win­ning streak snapped and lost for just the fifth time at home this season. 
Miami led 96-88 with 2:30 to play before Utah made an 8-2 run. 

You could earn: -$20°0 after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit) $5°0 if you show college r".D. (first visit) 
$20°0 TOTAL! 
$10°0 per person ifyou recruit someone and they donate twice. 
rNELP US SAVE LIVESw 
m~ ,;_~'" 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 
Come to:  Hours:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  M-F: 9:00 -6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  Sat: 8:00 -5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1117  Ph. 234-6010  


page 18 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
tic more in praeticc everyday and Wednesday I'm going to see some minutes to just more or less to get my feet wet," Friel said. 
Friel's absence has been sustained due to complications with the thigh injury that caused swelling to spread to his knee. 
Notre Dame has been des­perately lacking an offensive spark the last several weeks as Naismeth Award finalist Pat Garrity has been forced to carry the load. 
''I'll sec some' action against Georgetown, maybe when we need a basket," Friel said. "Jiopefully by the Big East tournament I'll be ready to go and hopefully we can get back in form like we were at St. .John's." 
Most of Notre Dame's games in recent weeks have come down to the final minutes as the undermanned squad has come close to Miami twice and top-1 0 opponent Connecticut. 
"Obviously it's been frustrat­ing," Friel said. "After we beat St. .John's, I think we were peaking at the right time and we felt that we could win the next two road games at Hutgers and Georgetown. 
"We were .500 in the league at that time and we were thinking maybe NCAAs then, but we had a real tough road 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
One-Night Badminton Tournament -RecSports will be sponsoring a One-Night Badminton tournament on Friday, Feb. 27. The tourna­ment will begin at 6:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Cnnter. Register in advance at RccSports. Singles and dou­bles division. Deadline for entering is Thursday, Feb. 26. 
trip." 
With the danger of a losing season very real, the Irish need some kind of spark on offense. 
"We've struggled offensively but we've been in most of the games which is a credit to the guys working hard," Friel said. "But we haven't been able to get over the edge offensively. We know we have to win these last couple of games." · 
A factor that could be in their favor is that these two games are more important to the Irish than they are to Georgetown or Providence. But the outcome of these games, and the season will rest on the shoulders of Garrity's supporting cast of Antoni Wyche, Phil llickey, and Martin Ingelsby. 
"Offensively everyone seems to have been hesitant and that has been a problem this whole month," Friel said. "We need to have some guys stepping up otherwise games will be end­ing up like we have been; los-
The Observer • SPORTS 
ing a lot of close games and that just doesn't get it done. I think we all know that and we're just looking for that guy to step up on a consistent basis and hopefully get us over the top so we can get these wins." 
Last season the Blue and Gold found themselves in a similar predicament as they earned a NIT bid with a 14-13 record after the Big East Tournament. But the squad will have to play like it did in 
.January  when  the  Irish  
knocked  off  three  NCAA  
Tournament teams.  

"Hopefully we can get that chemistry going like we had in .January and move it into the Big East Tournament," Friel said. 
"We feel like anything can happen, we've already proven that. We won in probably the toughest environment in the conference and at the tourna­ment it's going to be no differ­ent from that and we feel we're capable of pulling off anything." 

Men's· Basketball Student Tickets 

$4.00 


On Sale TODAY Wednesday Feb. 25th from 11:00-1:00pm at North and South Dining Halls for ND vs. Georgetown Wednesday Feb. 25th @ 9:00 pm 
Or stop by the Ticket Office located on the 2nd floor of the ­Joyce Center 
Wednesday, February 28, 1998 



C.A.S.H. is looking for OFFICERS for next year. lt is agreatopportuniN to do service and get leadership experience 
at the same t1mef IN,.ERES7ED? 
Call Megan at 4-3849 or Kelly at 4-3391 



t 
t 
(' 


page 19 The Observer· BENGAL BOUTS Wednesday, February 25, 1998 

Rans fell to three-time champion John Christoforetti in the 165-pound division, while Molina was knocked off by two-time winner Tommy Will. This year, the two hope to avenge last year's defeats. 
pick up the applications in the SUB office. If you have any questions, call the SUB office-1-6171 
Captains 
continued from page 24 
"I feel some pressure to win this year, but over the years I feel that I have matured a lot as far as my outlook," Molina commented. "I would love to win, but if I don't, looking back at the experience, the cama­raderie, and just knowing that I 
ruptured his spleen and the

I~---, surgery kept him out of the
~et into the Game, . 
tournament. Sophomore year he lost to past champion Chris 
Sikora and last year he was defeated by the legendary John Christoforetti in the finals. 
Rans recognizes Christoforetti along with other boxers he has met through the club as his 

Write Saint Mary's 
1 Sports I
inspiration.
I 
L 
I

Call Shannon Ryan 
284-5179 

.J 
was part of the tradition will definitely be enough for me." 
Rans brings his own unique talents and personality to the club. He serves .as Bengal Bout president, and his fellow boxers recognize his importance. 
"Ryan brings leadership and a whole lot of organization to the club," Molina said. "He does a lot of the paperwork. and without him, the advertisement and ticket sales would not have been nearly as successful." 
Rans, like Molina, was intro­duced to boxing before he arrived at Notre Dame. Living in nearby Granger, he got to see the fights and all that sur­rounds the Bouts. 
"I lived nearby during high school, and was able to see the fights then," Rans commented. "As soon as I got here and_got involved with. the program, I loved it. I was unable to com­pete freshman year, but I have competed every year since." 
During his freshman year, he 
-
"Christoforetti and Jeff Goddard have really helped me over the past few years," Rans said. "They are the kind of guys you meet and think 'wow'. They are both amazing individuals and tremendous boxers." 
Rans realizes that he has shortcomings as a fighter, but his hard work and dedication more than make up for these shortcomings. He, like Molina, shows up two hours before each practice to get in shape and fine tune his technique. 
These skills will be put to the test this year. In his next fight, he faces Rob Alter. It will be a tough fight, but Rans hopes to return to the finals. 
Rans and Molina truly epito­mize the spirit behind Bengal Bouts. One could even argue that with the dedication they put forth every day, they fit the mold for a modern-day Jedi 
,.
knight. 
If you see sports happening, call The Observer at 631-4543. 


• 125 TO 140-POUND WEIGHT CLASSES 

Intensity builds for tonight's semifinals 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The number of fighters is getting smaller while the intensity is growing as the semifinals of the 68th annual Bengal Bouts are set to take place tonight. 
There were no upsets in the 125-to 140-pound weight classes in the quarter11nals on Monday night, but that change appears inevitable as the action intensi11es tonight. 
In the 125-pound class, sophomore Patrick O'Shaughnessy is looking to upset top-seeded Matt Peacock in one of the semifi­nals, as Brian Rigney will bat­tle David Frick in the other. 
O'Shaughnessy was the only fighter in action in the 125­pound class on Monday, as he defeated Nicolas Schnabel with a unanimous decision. 
O'Shaugnessy has his work cut out for him against the left-handed Peacock, but he hopes his height advantage will provide a more balanced fight. 
"He's a lefty, so it's going to be something I haven't faced, but I have the longer reach," O'Shaughnessy said. ''I'm going to have to look out for him getting close to my body and throwing a lot of punches inside." 
The first-year fighter also knows the challenge he has going up against the more.­experienced Peacock, but maintains a good attitude about stepping into the ring in the semis. 
"To me, it's a victory to just get in the ring," O'Shaughnessy explained. "''m happy with my perfor­mance on Monday, so I'm just hoping to get in and have another good fight." 
In the 130-pound division, 
No. 1 seed David "the prancing pixie" Seerveld is taking a bit more of a flippant approach against his opponent, freshman Matt Altman. As his name indicates, Seerveld commented of his strate­gy, ''I'm planning on prancing and sprinkling pixie dust all over the ring. I'm going to enter the ring with a smile on my face and music in my heart." 
While Seerveld's approach remains unique at best for a fighter, he feels his name and strat­egy could give him the extra edge needed to make it to the finals. 
"The wimpier my nick­name, the better I fight, so I figure I'm a shoe-in," he added. 
Still, Altman looked tenacious in his first fight against Daniel Gallegos on Monday, using a relentless jab to gain him a split decision. 
In the other 130-pound 




.. 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Senior captain Sean Sharpe is a heavy favorite in tonight's bout against No. 4 seed Mike Valle . 
semifinal, Martin Garry 

will look to upset the No. i.---------------------------...1 
· 2 seed Jeremy Leatherby. 
The 135-pound semifinal 
will determine whether or not 
the crowd will get to see one 
of the most highly-anticipated 
fights in this year's bouts ­
Tommy Will against Lucas 
Molina -or whether under­
dogs Camilo Rueda and 
Matthew McBurney can put a 
wrench into that plan. 
Rueda will face reigning 
champion Tommy Will, while 
McBurney will go up against 
Lucas Molina. 
Both Rueda and McBurney 
have been highly touted by 
their returning finalist oppo­
nents, but don't expect Will or 
Molina to take for granted the 
potential match ahead of 
them. 
The one advantage that 
Rueda and McBurney boast is 
a match under their belts, as 
both advanced past the quar­
terfinals on unanimous deci-

IDavid Seerveld vs. Matthew Altman Martin Garry vs. Jeremy Leatherby 
ITem Will vs Camilo Rueda MattheN M::B.Jrney vs. lucas f.blina 
Isean Sharpe vs. Michael Valle 'lb::m3s Cronley vs. Michael Maguire 
IJ.R. Mellin vs. David Bann Dennis Joyce vs. David 
IFred Kelly vs. Jeevan Subbiah Tom Owens vs. Stefan Molina 
IMichael I.aDJke vs. Jeffery D:JOOsh D:lvid Wiltse vs. Adrian Cardona 
IRichard Molloy vs. Dave Remick Robert Miyakawa vs. James Sur 
IRyan Rans vs. Robert Alter 'll:'avi.s Alexarxler vs . N:mn Pezrmka 
IBrian Gaffney vs. Keith Parendo Brian Hal:bins vs. Oris D::lbranski 
IMike Rornanchek vs. Kyle Smith Joey Leniski vs. Daniel Prince 
Dave Butz vs. Matthew L~bbersITimothy Neagle vs. Andrew Hebert 
ID:lve Monahan vs. Andrew Riederer Michael Romero vs. Peter Ryan 

sions . 
The 140-pound division will 
be represented by a member 
of each elass as each member 
brings an element of either 
youth, strength. speed, or 
experience to his fight. 
The first semifinal in the 
elass will be youth versus 
experience with a little 
strength and speed from both 
sides as freshman Mik1~ Valle 
takes on senior eaptain Sean 
Sharpe. 
Valle defeated junior Sean 
Perkins in one of the bloodiest fights of the quarterfinals as the two went at each other's jaws for three straight rounds. Valle can count on the faet that the experienced Sharpe will keep himself better pro­. tected against the ambitious rookie, presenting the possi­bility of a more defensive 
effort. 
"Basically, I was pretty sore 
today," Valle said Tuesday, a day after his quarterfinal bout. "But I'm cxpneting to feel better tomorrow. 
"Sharpe's a little taller than me, so his reach is good, and I'm· going to have to stick to basics and stay in eontrol." 
Valle remains happy to be fighting in the semi f'i nals, especially against a seasoned fighter like Sharpe, but isn't taking anything for granted. 
"I was just glad to get through the first fight, but at the same time it's still the semis and I don't want to waste the opportunity," Valle eontinucd. 
"I don't want to look baek and regret not doing some­. thing, or wishing I had done 
something diffnrcntly." 
In the other 140-pound semi, junior Tom Cronley will take on sophomore Mike McGuire. 
Fighters start to 'get serious' 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 
The fun is ovm·. Now it's time to get down to business. 
In past years, the opening round of Bengal Bouts served several purposes. It was an opportunity for the favorites to tune-up their skills against some or the lesser-known boxers. It was also the chanee for noviees to showcase their talenl-; for the first time in front of an audi­ence. 
However, compared to the semifinals and finals, the open­ing round has usually laeked the intensity and competitive atmos­phere and is more often deseribcd as "fun" than any­thing elsn. 
That will not be the ease tonight when the semifinals of the 68th annual Bengal Bouts kick off at 7:30p.m. in the Joyce Center. 
"There's a huge jump from quarterfinals to semifinals," said eaptain Sean Sharpe. "In the quarterfinals, everyone is just trying to get used to fighting bllfore an audienee, and some­times you have to try to work the kinks out. 
"But in the semifinals, you have to comB out and stay focused. There's a big differ­Bnee in intensity level." 
The 145-pound elass will pit top-seed J.R. Mellin against No. 5 Dave Bann, while No. 3 Dennis .Joyce will take on No. 2 seed Dave Murphy. In the highly competitive division, it's any­one's guess as to who will advanee to Friday's finals. 
"I think everyone left has a good ehance of moving on to the finals," said Murphy. "I just have to go out and light my kind of fight. That involves taking advantage of my height and jab. If I do that, I should have a good shot at making the finals." 
Although top seeds Fred Kelly and Stefan Molina appear to be on a collision course to meet in Friday's finals, they will first have to take care of business tonight. Kelly will face No. 4 Jeevan Subbiah, while Molina is slated to take on No. 6 seed Tom Owens. 
"After last year, I ean't afl'ord to take anything for granted," said Kelly. ''I've got to go out and give it everything I have and not worry about who I have to fight next." 
The 155-pound division has shaped up to be one of the true surprises in this year's Bengal Bouts. Top-seed Mike LaDuke suddenly faces a rough road to the finals with No. 5 Jeffrey Oobosh standing in his way. 
Meanwhile, No. 3 seed David Wiltse will square off with sec­ond-seed Adrian Cardona in the bottom bracket of the weight class. Cardona, in his first year of boxing, is an early candidate for newcomer of the year, while Wiltse looked impressive against Dan Bumpus in the quarterfi­nals. 


"The two of us are friends and training partners, so it is kind of an interesting situation," said Cardona. "It will be kind of dif­ferent going up against a guy I know so well and am friends with. 
"But we understand that it's nothing personal and it's all in the spirit of Bengal Bouts." 


Wednesday, February 25, 1998 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." page 21 

Remaining boxers work on making adjustments 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Adaptation could be the crucial ele­
ment in the semi-finals of Bengal 
Bouts. The ability of boxers to change 
their game plan is necessary in order 
to combat their next opponents and ·secure a spot in the finals. 
.Junior John DeSplinter will have to 
change his plans tremendously. 
DeSplinter faced a wild and spirited 
effort in junior Dennis Jovellanos. 
Tonight, he will face a controlled and 
patient fighter in sophomore Tom 
Biolchini. 
"I have to throw better jabs against 
Tom IBiolehinil." DeSplinter said. "lie 
is a better fighter and he is good. He 
knows what he is doing because he's 
got two older brothers who have 
taught him. I have to fight my own , fight and not worry what he is going to :do. I have to just try and do it on my .own." i This fight could prove to be one of :tho best in the semifinals. DeSplintcr 
and Biolchini match up well, with nei­
thnr having the clear cut height or 
roach advantage. If anything, the 
advantage should lean somewhat 
toward Biolchini who looked more 
dominant in his opening fight. 
"I need to stay a little more con­
trolled," Biolchini remarked about his 
goals for the semis. "Next time, I need 
to throw more combinations." 
The other fight in the 160-pound 
weight class will pit top-seeded and 
defending champion Chip Farrell 
against sophomore Timothy DeFors. 
Farrell characterizes himself as a jab 
fighter and will rely heavily on it to 
secure his fourth straight trip to the 
finals. 
"Basically I have to go out there and 
do the same thing," Farrell said. "If he 
does just that it will be tough for 
DeFors to stop Farrell in his pursuit of 
his second consecutive title." 
Last year, Farrell faced Rich Molloy in the finals of the 160-pound weight class. Molloy finds himself in a new weight class this year. In only his sec­ond year of fighting, Molloy has become a force to reckon with as shown in his first round fight. His patience, skill and the size of his upper body might be too much for sophomore David Remick . 
Senior Jim Sur could have his hands full with Robert Miyakawa who escaped a split decision in the first round. Sur's height could lend him the advantage but Miyakawa can counter with the pure strength 6f the upper body. Both Sur and Miyakawa endured wild first round fights against their opponents and now they both will look to settle down and work on their fundamentals and techniques to pre­pare for the finals. 
In perhaps the shortest fight, next to junior Brian Gaffney's, senior Norm Beznoska's fight was called early in the first. His short fight might leave him a little unprepared for his semifinal bout. 
''It is kind of bad that I am not get­ting my full thing in because I can't test my endurance," Beznoska com­mented. "I am not sure how much of a problem this is going to be but I guess we will see on Wednesday." 
Beznoska will face Travis Alexander in one of the semi-final bouts of the 170-pound weight class. 
"I saw Alexander, he had the upset over Leis," Beznoska said. "It looks like Alexander is kind of a brawler so I am going to have to focus on a guy like that." 
"He [Beznosk,al is a good fighter and he has experience," Alexander said.· "He is agressive so I have to be as agressive as he is." 
The first-year fighter says that his semi-final appearance is somewhat surprising, "It is kind of unexpected but I have improved a lot since I start­ed but I still have lots to learn," he 

• 175 TO HEAVYWEIGHT CLASSES 
Favorites face tougher path to finals 

said. 

Senior captain Ryan Rans found him­self in an unfamiliar position in his opening round bout. He found himself in the midst of a barrage of punches. Rans used his strength and his endurance to overcome freshman Jeffrey Welsh's performance. The senior will now face another freshman, Josh Thompson. 
Energy will be the key for the fight­ers with the new format. Tonight's fight will show those who expended all their energy to get to the semis and those who reserved enough to take them to the title . 

By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
With the initial nervousness gone, boxers in tonight's semi­final bouts face tough roads to the championships. 
Joining the quarterfinal vic­tors in the ring tonight arc the bout's most talented fighters, many of whom received first-round byes as the top seeds in their respective weight class­es. 
In the heavyweight division, three boxers will make their 1998 Bengal Bouts debut tonight. With the lack of heav­ier fighters, Dave Monahan, Mike Romero and Peter Ryan take to the ring after quarter­final byes. All eyes will be on Ryan, a freshman who received the No. 2 seed in the weight class. 


''I'm a little bit nervous," said Ryan. "And I feel really lucky to have gotten the No. 2 seed, especially with a good fighter like Romero in the class. 
"I fought the novice [tourna­ment] and did well, but I've only sparred three times," c o m m e n t e d Ryan. 
In the 185­pound class, top seeds Dave Butz k:i,-P"Wttr% and Andy Hebert appeared one year ago. 

Perhaps the highlight of the heavier weight classes will be the Mike Romanchek vs. Kyle Smith bout at 180 pounds. 
Romanchek lost a tough 
30 
: P .ffi. 
8p.m. 
In the other 180-pound semifinal, Joey Leniski needs the crowd on his side to with­stand an onslaught from Dan Prince, whose technique and stamina can wreak havoc in 

prepare for the 1...--------------------.....J once you get there 
an intense fight. 
Brian Gaffney is the favorite in the 175­pound weight class, but his quickness will be tested against Keith Parendo, who pum­meled Chad Maestas on Monday. 
"Absolutely, there's more pressure this year, especially after winning the year before," said Gaffney.· "When you first come 
in you're gunning for the guy at the top, but 
hard-hitting Matt Lubbers, whose 16 second TKO was the fastest figpt of the quarterfi­nals, and Tim Neagle, who overpowered Stephen Preiffer. 
"I feel great this year," said Butz. "Last year I pretty much just showed up. I didn't really do any of the workouts either. Everybody has a chance to win, but I feel that I'm in a good position because I've been training hard." 
Look for a more controlled fight from Butz tonight, in contrast to the brawler who fight to Brian Gaffney as a freshman last year. and has improved his technique immensely. Smith hopes to use his height advantage and longer reach to keep Romanchek on the ropes. The two are good friends and have-sparred and practiced togeth­er since the season began. 

''I'm going to try to fight with more technique than last year," said Romanchek. "Kyle and I have sparred, and I know that I have to try to work him inside to win." 
everyone's gunning for you. Now you're defending a title, and it brings a whole different dimension to the fight." 
Chris Dobranski and Brian Hobbins are evenly-matched in the other semifinal. Both earned split-decision victories Monday, but Dobranski has a slight advantage as the more experienced boxer. 
When the boxers lace up their gloves tonight, expect some hard-hitting action. 
The stakes are much higher now. 
.. 


. The Observer/Liz Lang 
The lnsh battled and upset Rutgers last night at the Joyce Center. 
other players, McMillen and Ivey, also scored in double fig­ures with 16 and 15 points respectively. Peirick kept the Irish offense in gear with a game-high eight assists and five points, all scored in the second half. 
"Ruth had an outstanding game," McGraw said about Riley's performance. "Coming They were led by freshman guard Natasha Pointer, who tallied 21 points and played in all 40 minutes of the game. She was supported by sopho­more forward Shawnetta Stewart, who came just short of a double-double with 17 points and 9 rebounds. 
With the win, Notre Dame improves to 18-8 on the sea-

Fisher Hall proudly welcomes 
Kathleen Beatty. S.S.J. 
Rector of Lyons Hall 

Please Recycle the Observer 

Applications for Student Go'Vernment positions in the Cesaro/Belak administration are now available in the Student Go'Vernment Office 
• 
(203 LaFortune) till Spring Break. 
Please sign up for an interview when you pick up an application. 
PIJTTJNG STIJDENTS FlftSTI 


T SCOTT ADAMS 
TI·H5 15 VER'< 
TECHNICAL. 

GALLERY OF I'LL EXPLAIN ... 
GOOGL'< -E'< £. 0 

) 
.___-; ~ .............,==::'-'--====::---J..biJ..--'-.....L---t ~ 

~-------------------------J~ 
CROSSWORD ACROSS 37 Basketballer 66 Winners break it Shaquille 
67 Select at random 

1 Doberman doc 
38 2001, for one 68Underway

4Antony of antiquity 40 Cousin of a 69 Home of Phillipsminibike University
a Match play? 43 Salinger heroine 70 Unit of loudness
13 Touch 44 Miser's 71 Wins going 
15 Director Kazan 
motivation away

16 Tragic 
46 Go like lightning 72 Requirement

Montague 48 J.F.K. sight · 73 Damage
17 Asia's mistress 49 Member ofthe 
18 Afternoon affairs 
P.G.A. Seniors 
DOWN

t91n pieces 
Tour 20 Joe DiMaggio's 1 Chekhov's 
53 Exclamation of

nickname "Uncle--"
affirmation 23 Completely lost 2 W.W. II menace
54 Buddy Holly's 

24 Teachers' grp. "Peggy-" 3 Changes colors 25Mai-4Dole
55 Coffee 28 "Edward-" preference 5 One of the Baldwins
33 Dawber who 59 Somerset played Mindy Maugham novel &Oum coin 36 Hounds' quarry 64 Panel member 71995 De Nirofilm 8 Oklahoma Indian ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9Skip it 
-P-r-1"T'Q--rU-,-E-, 1o Savvy s p U N K 11 "--the ramparts 12 "--to worry" i-=L-=-i-=-~4.iii.i-=~E-.Hf-':'-l-:7 iii.t=-Ef"'!"'l 14 Movie shots 
-"+;.;-r.:-+:'.,-1 21 Apiece ~~~:'-! 22 Apiece 
~n~··· 2s President from

~ Braintree -=::+::'-~iii~ ~::-iiillf-:-+.:-t:x::-i 21 Cay ...,.~..:.:..t"-..::tt-.fiii!I8Bg~:+:+.:=i 29 Beatles' "-­the Walrus" • ~7+::-t:::-i 30 Sign at the Bijou 
TENON ETU I 
~=+:+.:-! 31 Dividing

E D I T S D A T E 
membranes 
~.__--~----~--~--~--~~~ 
Puzzle by Randall J. Hartman 
32 Chemical suffix 33 African 
tribesman 34 Hawk's home 35 Powerful 
whirlpool 39 Fam. member 41 Always, to Keats 42 Smidgen 45Gobi and 
Kalahari 47 1990 World Series champs 50 Capek classic 
51 Whipped 52 Bassoon and oboe 56 PC feature 
57 Capital of Guam 
58 Not as many 
60 Showy earring 
61 "Riders of the Purple Sage" author Grey 
62 Ron Howard role 63 Comedian Foxx 64 Jelly holder 65 ET's ride 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Aries:You feel the call of the wild today, but it is unlikely to summon you anywhere useful. Irresponsible friends may get you into trouble. You are better ofT as a leader than as a follow­er. 
Taurus:This is not a good day for working with others. but there may be no choice in the matter. Your own ambitions make it difficult to accept some­one else's reality. A third party may have to intervene. 
Gemini:Take a new approach today: A normal appearance makes unconventional behavior startlingly effective. Your cre­ativity comes as a pleasant sur­prise. 
Cancer:You are unhappy with the way a group decision has gone after you put in your two cents. If everything always went your way, life would be boring. Take this lesson with you to the next phase. 
Leo:You could be the butt of a practical joke today. Going along with it may get you the last laugh by turning the joke back on the joker. The worst thing you can do is to lose your temper. 
Virgo:A change in routine gives you the chance to experi­ment. You make a pleasant dis­covery that would fit well into your life. Today's criticism is more useful than annoying. 
Libra:Friendship and part­nership begin on an intellectual level today. Couples will com­municate beautifully, while sin­gles will create a favorable cli­mate for telepathy. Play with this moment. 
Scorpio:Older people may dis­miss or trivialize your accom­plishments. Try not to invite criticism with your attitude. Your sense of style or decora­tion could be a little ofT today. 
Sagittarius:Keep your mind and schedule open today. You are quick to comprehend and apply new ideas. Ignore your mother's advice and talk to strangers. Go someplace differ­ent and pretend to be someone else. 
Capricorn:Money passes through your hands today, whether you are a buyer or a seller. If buying, carefully con­sider the value of the purchase you are about to make. If sell­ing, make sure the buyer knows what she's getting. 
Aquarius:With the Moon in Aquarius' house, this is a time for creative thought and origi­nal deeds. You find yourself with a loyal entourage who is convinced of your ability to walk on water. Do not disappoint them! 
Pisces:You are easily distract­ed today, making you useless for anyt-hing important. This could be a fun time if you are able to get out of your responsi­bilities. Anyone who talks to you -recognizes your wisdom. · 


Calll-4543 
.. 

loo~~U"U~ ~OM©lWd ~0 M©l~~U"U~ ~(Q)MtB CC(Q)~~®~® M®MOW~®~ 1: 
M®M(Q)W~®~ ©JW® (Q)U"U~Jf' ~OU"Ud ~~ Jf'D~ h©l~® ~h®m. 
Blackout (blak'out') n. A temporary loss of memory or consciousness; temporary amnesia caused by excessive use of alcohol. 

s the Office of Alcohol and D Education 
..,. 
.. 

.. 
r 
I .­
I I 
I 
I 
SPORTS 
page 24 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Senior Mollie Peirick enjoyed a 71-64 victory over Rutgers in her last home game at the Joyce Center. 
Women victorious in season finale 
By BILL HART  doing wrong defensively and  
Spons Writer  fix it," senior guard Mollie  
Peirick said about the mood  
In the last home game of the  in the locker room. "Also, we  
season, it is not unusual for  were just trying to come out  
the seniors to take center  fired up in the second half,  
stage. However, when Big  and just take it away from  
East rival Rutgers came to  them."  
town last night, it took a  In the second half, the Irish  
group effort for the Irish to  came out strong, scoring the  
defeat the Scarlet Knights 71­ first nine points of the half.  
64 and keep their hat in the  The Knights, after being held  
ring for postseason con­ to a three-minute drought,  
tention.  managed to tie the game and  
The game started out slug­ threatened to overtake the  
gish, with both teams using  lead again. However, Peirick  
their defenses to battle it out  hit a three to score her first  
for the lead. At first, it was  points of the game and keep  
the visitors who were taking  the Irish in front for good.  
advantage of their opponents'  "I think we slowed them  
mistakes, forcing 14 ND  down with the zone," head  
turnovers in the first half.  coach Muffet McGraw  
However. in most other cate­ remarked. "They had to make  
gories, the Irish held their  shots to win the game, and  
own. With relatively few  they didn't shoot the ball  
ehances to go to the free  extremely well. We had a lot  
throw line, and tenacious  of trouble containing Natasha  
perimeter defense blocking  Pointer. She had an out­ 
the Irish at every opportunity.  standing game. I think she's  
it was up to eenter Huth Hiley  definitely the 'glue' that really  
to carry the brunt of the  gets them going."  
team's offensive power. The  Despite a close game right  
freshman Jived up to her  to the wire, it was the tena­ 
billing, scoring nine straight  cious Irish defense and free  
points for the Irish to give  throw shooting that eventual­ 
them an early live point lead.  ly did the Scarlet Knights in.  
llowever, the Irish headed  The team held Rutgers to 34.1  
into the locker room with a  percent shooting from the  
33-28 deficit.  field in the second half. Notre  
"We were just trying to fig­ Dame shot 21 of 27 from the  
ure out what it was we were  see WOMEN I page 22  
vs. Georgetown  
Today, 9 p.m.  
Big East Tournament  
Feb. 28-Mar. 3, at Rutgers  
vs. Central Michigan  
Today4 p.m. '  

Wednesday, February 25, 1998 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Must win situation for Irish 
ND battles Hoyas with NIT bid on the line 
By JOE CAVATO Assistant Sports Editor 
Their backs are against the wall. It's a must win situation. They're between a rock and a hard place. It's crunch time. 
Those and about every other similar cliche you can think of describe the position that the Notre Dame basketball team finds itself in. 
The Irish will host Georgetown tonight before traveling to Providence to close out the regular season. The Hoyas took it to Notre Dame at the MCI center earli­er this month as they put on a shooting display and defeated the Irish 75-56. Georgetown 

Itt'Leaders exemplify spirit 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sports Writers 
Fame, glory, a Jedi craves not these things. If there were such a thing as modern day Jedi knights, they would be found in Notre Dame's Bengal Bouts. Two lighters who exem­plify the spirit of the club are senior captains Lucas Molina and Ryan Hans. 
Molina has been around box­ing since he was 16, and he has his older brother to thank for intriguing his interest. 
"I knew about the Bengal Bouts before I got here," Molina explained. "My older brother was in the club, and that got me interested in boxing. It was then that I joined the Twin~City Tigers Boxing Club back home." 
Molina has boxed in the tour­nament all four years of his Notre Dame career. As a fresh­man, he was forced to light up a couple of weight classes. In his debut year he lost in the semifinals in a split decision to Dan Corey, who went on to win his second title. 
As a sophomore, he lost in another split decision to a for­mer captain John Kmetz. Last year he made it to the finals, but lost to defending champion Tommy Will. 

Molina finds motivation in many aspects of his Bengal Bout experience. His sheer love The Observer/John Daily 
for the sport drives him to show After coming up short last year, senior captain Ryan Rans is the favorite to win the 170-pound weight class. 
up two hours early for every 

practice. He also likes the fact as two of the keys behind his be put the test this y(Jar. that his hard work is benefiting dedication. Tonight he faces Matt so many people through the "Tom Sutton, our coach, has McBurney, and if he wins he mission in Bangladesh. been a role model for me in the may face Tommy Will one more 
Molina also looks to those he ring," Molina said. "He is an time. Regardless of what the works with everyday for moti­amazing man, both as a coach results are, Molina has no vation. He recognizes the and as a person" regrets. 
All of Molina's hard work will -----------­coaches and his fellow boxers 
see CAPTA INS I page 19 

vs. Wisconsin!! February 28, I p.m. aJ •Bengal Bout semifinal previews 
~ 
see pages 20-21 vs. Minnesota

.!! ••
February 28 9 a.m. 
•Baseball team opens up today 

• ~ 
vs. Northern Michigan see page 16 ~ February 28, 7 p.m. 
~ 

(14-11, 6-10) are led by Boubacar Aw, who gave the Irish fits in the last game, and Shenard Long. These next 
.--------, two contests and how the Irish fair in the Big East Tournament will decide if 
their season will extend into the NIT. '-"'--0"""'~"'""""'.....__, 
Just a month ago Notre Dame was rolling but since a victory at St. John's, head coach John MacLeod has watched his squad fall from a respeetable 11-7 mark overall and 5-5 in the conference to 12-12 and 6­10 after the loss Sunday to Miami. 
During that stretch MacLeod has been without the serviees of the most efficient three­point shooter in the confer­ence as Keith Friel has been sidelined with a thigh contu­sion. 
The Big East opponents have exploited Notre Dame's lack of depth and scoring punch. During Friel's absence. Pat Garrity has been the only con­stant offensive force for the Irish as no one has been able to fill in Friel's 14 points a game in conference play. 
Friel is listed as question­able for tonight's contest but he, as well as MacLeod, hope he will be able to sec some time. 
"Sunday was the first day I started running so I'm trying to slowly get back into shape," Friel said. 
Friel's thigh bruise has pre-· vented him from mueh activity other than shooting and upper body work, so hn will use the next two games to get back into basketball shape. 
''I'm going to try to do a lit-

see IRISH I page 18 • 









