-~----------­

Monday, March 2, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 102 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Drunk driver collides with student's car, injures 3 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
A drunk driver allegedly hit a car containing three Notre Dame students Friday night, seriously wounding one passenger and leaving the other two girls with only minor injuries. 
Walsh Hall sophomore Serena Kubiak suffered a head injury and did not regain consciousness until Sunday afternoon in the Intensive Care Unit of St. Joseph Medical Center, according to her roommate, Kristin Leonardo. 
Senior Luz Maria Rodriguez, also from Walsh, needed stitches in her forehead and treatment for an elbow sprain; the driver, off-campus senior Jennifer Gorman, escaped with minor cuts and scrapes. 
At about 11:15 p.m., a speeding, until he crashed into a pole on the side southbound vehicle turned onto of the road." 
Mishawaka Avenue from 32nd Street, smashing into the driver's side of Gorman's east­bound car, she said.
"The other 
guy had a stop sign, but I don't even think he slowed down for it," Gorman 
Kubiak, who sat in the backseat and 
'THE OTHER GUY HAD A STOP SIGN, BUT was not wear­
I DON'T THINK HE SLOWED DOWN FOR ing a seatbelt, struck her
IT. HE JUST BLEW RIGHT THOROUGH AND 

head after the HIT MY CAR, AND THEN HE KEPT ON GOING impact of the collision threw
UNTIL HE CRASHED INTO A POLE ON THE 

her around the  
SIDE OF THE ROAD.'  car's interior,  
according  to  
Leonardo.  
JENNIFER GORMAN  "It  was  a  
OFF-CAMPUS SENIOR, Cf!ASH VICTIM  deep lesion  - 
the  doctors  

said. "He just blew right through and needed staples to close it up, but hit my car, and then he kept on going Serena's doing really well now," 
I A lliance Denied: Are you losing your 
.fl. voice?' 

T-shirts worn by Alliance protestors 
Students protest club status refusal 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
Members of The Alliance gathered outside of Saint Mary's College president Marilou Eldred's office Friday for almost eight hours to protest her denial of official club status to the group. 
Several demonstrators wore T-shirts featur­ing the word "SILENCED" and placed red tape on their mouths as a symbol of the silencing of the student body, which is what they claim Eldred's decision mandates. Alliance member Poogie Sherer wore a shirt stenciled with the phrase, "Alliance denied. Are you losing your voice?" and asked students passing through the LeMans hallway to sign petitions that stated simply, "I will not be silenced." 
"I think the demonstration was a strong sign to the president of the College that her propos­al does not meet student needs," stated Alliance member Kelly Curtis. 
"We had really positive reactions," said demonstrator Stephanie Lancaster. "People stopped, asked questions, went away to think about what we told them, and then would come back and sign a petition." 
"We were able to initiate one-on-one dia­logues with students," Sherer said. "If people declined signing the petition, they had to ver­bally refuse, and I think that caused many of them to walk away and really evaluate why they said no." 
"It was very non-confrontational for students, and I think they responded well to that," Lancaster added. "It was certainly confronta­tional for Dr. Eldred, however." 
''I'm glad to see so many students involved," said student body vice president Lori McKeough. "It's good to see the expression of a lack of concern about the student voice." 
"I was proud of the way that the students who protested reacted. They handled them­selves in a respectful manner," said student body president Nikki Milos. "My hope is that President Eldred will give students a way to express their opinions, other than in a protest." Vice president of student affairs Linda Timm, who was out of town during the protest, believes that Eldred will continue to seek out · 
see PROTEST I page 4 Leonardo said. "Her neurosurgeon ran a CAT scan and said it came back clear, so that was a huge relief." 


Kubiak's mother requested that her daughter receive no calls or visitors while she recuperates, said Leonardo, adding that Kubiak will leave school for the rest of the semester. 
"As soon as Serena's up to it, she'll go home to recover there," she said. 
The other driver may have emerged unscathed, according to Gorman. Police tests listed the his blood alcohol level as 0.22, she said. That is more than twice the legal limit; the South Bend Police Department could not be reached for comment. 
As of Sunday night, no charges had 
see ACCIDENT I page 4 
gang life 
Brother Bill Tomes has funerals of young· victims cro$sfire. of Chicago's gang 
mber of the Brothers and order from the Catholic Saturday afterno.on to a hisministry experiences Chicago's many lowM 

r----------------------------------------------------------------------------~------------·----~------~~---------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


$100,000 
What can you get for Spencer Stefko 
$100,000? Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
A night in the Lincoln 
bedroom, I think. 
You could buy a Hummer. 
You could sing about one-tenth of a 
Barenaked Ladies song. 
$100,000 is a Brobdingnagian sum of money, 
probably more than I'll ever have at_one time in 
my life as a high school teacher. To understand 
it, let's bring this to a more immediate level. 
You could throw one helluva tailgatnr (with 
your parents, of course). 
And you eould buy a college football player for 
four years. 
I know it comes to more than $100,000 once 
you figure in books, travel, free dothes and 
stipends, but I lose mathematical aeeuracy over 
$100,000. 
OK, so what do the football players get for 
their $100,000 worth of services? 
Don't choke on your lunch in your hurry to 
answer. I know you, like everyone else, have a 
long list. Women \-\ill be at the head of your list, 
I'm sure. Preferential treatment probably ranks 
pretty high. I won't go through the lists I've 
heard lest I use the rest of my allotted space. 
But frankly I'm getting horribly tired of hear­
ing people go through these lists, so let me add 
my items to your Jist. 
For four or five years, you get a big target 
painted on your baek. In class, in the dining hall, 
in the dorm. Everything you do, every day, is 
scrutinized. C'mon, how many of you have called 
a friend either here or at home with some tale of 
your run-in with a Notre Dame football player? 
As a liJOtball player, if you trip in the dining 
hall. you know someone will recount the story 
that evening. If you answer incorrectly in dass, 
you know people \-\ill hear about it. 
You get to have every wanna-be tough guy 
with beer muscles wanting a piece of you. If 
you're a lineman, chanees are you're not that 
concerned. Until you figure in the fact that you 
ean't do a thing or your scholarship is gone. 
Yeah, I could probably beat up Mike Rosenthal 
too, if he wasn't allowed to fight baek. 
You get to work out while others hang out. You get no holidays with your family. You get to wake up most mornings in the offseason with trouble walking, sore from training. We'll leave exploitation out of this discussion, as that's another day, and another column. 
You get to have people who are no compari­son skill-wise critique your every move. Hon Powlus was undoubtedly the best or second­best quarterback on campus this year. So where do people who will never be close to as good as he is get otT ripping him? You know you said something negative about him this year. Why don't you get some footballs and a tire to hang from a tree and invite Ron over? 
You get to have many people (I said many, not all) wanting a piece of you only because you play football wanting to tell their friends they know somebody who's actually on TV. TV! 
So you get to go through what are supposed to be the best years of your life, often not kno\-\ing someone's motivation for being around you. To many, you cease being a person and become a persona. 
I would think at this school, where so many lived high school lives under the microscope that is the popularity of athletic captaincy or student government, that people would remember what it feels like. 
This column is obviously not to suggest that being a football player is a negative experience. But before we assume the life of a football player is heaven. we should remember what it felt like to live in the fishbowl. Or ask someone who ha.<;. Then weigh that feeling against the feeling of having anonymity whenever you'd like it. Then $100,000 doesn't seem like that much money. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Ann~ Marie Maningly  Kristi Klitsch  
Sarah Hiltz  Sarah Dylag  
Bill Uniowski  Graphics  
Sports  Tom Roland  
Bill Hart  Production  
Viewpoint  Laura Petelle  
Spencer Stefko  Lab Tech  
John Daily  

Tho Obsorv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publishod Monday through Friday ~x<:~pr during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

Monday, March 2, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 




(~~utside the Dome 
"'\.."'\ /"'.,~-·~\'J 
\..! Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Tufts community debates racial content of magazine 
MEDFORD, Mass. Student complaints over the Feb. 12 issue of The Primary Source, the 
.,.
campus magazine of Tufts University, sparked dialogue at the Community Union Senate and prompted the senators to decide whether or not they should hold a forum to discuss the responsibility of campus media groups. My concern is as far as their fund­
During open forum, the Senate ing is concerned. I was wondering if heard from Pan-African Alliance the Senate could have an open (PAA) president Gareth Robinson, forum for all campus media for us who voiced concerns about The to sit down and discuss these 
Primary Source. issues." 
"The issue is the writing of The A representative of the Arab Primary Source. A lot of what is in Students Association said, "Many here is a lot of offensive imagery," Arab students on campus found Hobinson said. many things particularly offensive. 
Referring to the most recent issue We would also hope to have an open of the Source which parodied the forum on this issue," she said. Task Force on Race report, he said, A representative from the Tufts "They did something that is very Community Union Judiciary also offensive to many students, espe-endorsed an open forum. 

• PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Professor prepares for zero gravity 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
During his 16 days in space, university professor James 
Pawelczyk will have a chance to run for three straight 
hours, climb inside a paper bag, dissect a few animals and 
teach a class to University students. And, he hopes, have a 
chance to look out the window. Pawelczyk, assistant pro­
fessor of physiology and kinesiology, and the rest of the 
seven-person crew will not have much time for stargazing 
during their flight on the Space Shuttle Columbia April 2. 
They will fill their days with testing the effects of space 
flight on the nervous system, adjusting to space flight and 
interacting with the world below. University students will 
be able to question Pawelczyk about his work as they 
watch him through a television monitor. Meanwhile, a 
World Wide Web site designed by Kaspar Stromme pro­
vides images of the shuttle, updates of the crew's prepara­
tions and provides a forum for asking the crew questions 
via e-mail. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

Lawyers settle malpractice suit 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
The malpractice insurance company for University Health Services (UHS) agreed last Friday to pay $1 mil­lion to settle a lawsuit brought against Dianne Drake, a UHS doctor between 1985 and 1996. Helena Nicholaysen, a 39-year-old Brookline resident and wife of a Harvard graduate student, sued Drake for not diag­nosing her breast cancer until it had passed the point at which it could be effectively treated, spreading throughout her body to her lymph nodes. "[Nicholaysen] is dying because a doctor at Harvard University Health Services failed to take Mrs. Nicholaysen's complaints of a breast lump seriously," said Andrew Meyer, an attorney with Lubin & Meyer, the firm representing Nicholaysen, in a statement yes­terday. "Dr. Dianne Drake failed to properly evaluate, monitor· and follow up the lump reported by Mrs. Nicholaysen," he said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

·]-·,,./.-/ H L 


• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, March 2. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
"'T"""'r ............._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 


Pressure 
H L 6J 5SI !Til 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pr CLOUDY CLOUDY VIS Associated PrtiU 
Anchorage  22  7  Concord  48  33  Missoula  44  25  
Aspen  32  18  Detroit  40  30  Mobile  61  36  
Atlanta  50  30  Disneyworld 66  40  Newark  53  39  
Boston  50  37  Fresno  66  45  PiMsburgh  44  32  
Chicago  38  30  ManhaMan  54  34  San Antonio 66  37  

• OHIO UNIVERSITY 
School reports most rapes in MAC 
ATHENS, Ohio 
From 1994 to 1997, no Mid-American Conference (MAC) school reported more than five rapes in a one year. Except OU. Under its new reporting system, OU reported 33 rapes in 1996 and 27 in 1997, numbers that some officials say provide a more in-depth picture of rape occurrences at OU and the state's other MAC uni­versities. All other MAC schools in Ohio rely solely on the Uniform Crime Reporting method, which takes into account population, for reporting rape statistics. By fed­eral law, every university must keep records by this method, which does not categorize the type of attack, report incidents not verified by law enforcement, nor include city police department reports. But low numbers at other schools do not mean rape does not occur on other campuses. One reason for low numbers could be the method police departments use to report sexual assaults, said Ted Jones, director of campus safety. 
• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
Web regulation still far off, profs say 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
While the U.S. government is gearing up for another attack on the "indecency" of the World Wide Web, some university professors say it may be impossible to ever reg­ulate the Internet. Both law and computer science and engineering professors say that because the Web is so huge, it cannot be regulated. During the past month, Congress has made proposals to restrict Internet sites that arc "harmful to minors" even though other plans, like last year's Communications Decency Act, have failed because they were too broad. Hight now, programmers are work­ing on a driver's license type of identification system to be built into computers. The system would determine what areas of the Internet-a user could acc11SS, said Richard Newman, assistant professor of computer science and engineering. "This would work better than anything else we have right now to keep kids away from adult sites," Newman said. "But the costs aren't worth it right now." 
Senators discussed whether or not the Senate or the Media Advisory Board (MAB) should sponsor a forum to discuss the campus media. Senator Samar Shahcryer said, "We have decided to postpone the forum [originally scheduled for this Wednesday]. We really want to get a better idea ... There have been a lot of questions raised on whether we should be holding this forum. 
"We want to know what people think. First, to sec whether anything should be done at all. There are a lot of ideas out there -from a mag­azine to counteract the Source, to funding," she said. 
Shaheryer added that MAB also has the authority to hold such a forum. 
Senator Larry Harris said he wor­ried that "it might appear as though we are putting this group [The Primary Source] on trial." 
Monday, March 2, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• MULTICUlTURAl BEAT 
Students celebrate centennial of Filipino independence 

By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
On Saturday. the Filipino­American Student Organization (FASOl presented the fourth annual "Fiestang Filipino," a celebration of the culture and history of the Philippine Islands. 
This year marks the 100th anniversary of the indepen­dence of the Philippine Islands. On June 12. 1898, the declara­tion of independence of the Filipino people marked the beginning of the revolutionary transition from Spanish to native rule. 
"We come here together to celebrate a very important day in Filipino history," said Rona Reodica, president of FASO. "I hope you leave with a better understanding of the Philippine centennial." 
This is the first time in its four-year history that Fiestang has been held at Stepan Center. Over 300 members of the Notre Dame community attended the event. 
Everyone in attendance had an opportunity to sample authentic Philippine cuisine before the program started. 
Following dinner, the cele­bration began with several tra­ditional Philippine dances. Presentations, such as Tinikling, Binasuan and Singkil, employed authentic costumes and tested the concentration and skill of the performers. 
Dances were also given by a Purdue University dance group, who performed Maglalatik, and Troop ND, the University's hip­hop dance team. 
The evolution of the Philippines. from oppression to freedom, was laid out by Tricia Sevilla, who presented several historical perspectives of the islands before 1898. A video presentation, "Heart of a Hero," detailed the plans for the cen­tennial celebration later this year. 
Dr. Max Basco, the chairman of the Philippine Centennial 
Committe.e  of Chicago  and  
Midwest  States,  gave  the  
keynote  address  for  the  

evening. In his talk, Basco praised FASO for exploring the rich heritage of the Filipinos and appealed to the audience to "not to let Filipino spirit become dormant." 
"We are the generation of Filipinos who enjoy the fruits of the struggle for democracy," Basco said. "On June 12, the names of our national heroes will ring like they have never rung before." 

Basco, the vice president of the Filipino-American Military Medical Officers Society, told the audience that the last 100 years have been crucial to the development of the Philippine Islands. 
Basco stated that since the declaration of independence, the people of the Philippines have reached a new solidarity, seen the birth and growth of their race, and initiated an 

active vision in international issues. 
Basco urged the audience to perpetuate the "brilliant tapes­try" of the Filipino heritage by involving themselves in the Philippine Centennial Movement, which is the official planning committee for the hol­iday. 
"The centennial is a celebra­tion of our glamorous past and future," Basco said. 
Fiestang comes in the wake of the Coalition Council's recogni­tion of FASO as "Organization 
LEFT: Students hung ban­ners to decorate for this weekend's FASO-spon­sored "Fiestang Filipino." 
BELOW: Among the events was a perfor­mance by Troop ND. 
The Obse!Ver/Michelle Keefe 
of the Year." In addition, sophomore Rona Reodica was named "Officer of the Year," and sophomore Fiestang com­missioner Liberty Jones was named Council "Member of the Year." Voting for the awards was held in early February and was open to all members of the Coalition Council. 
For information on the Philippine Centennial move­ment, contact the office of the Filipino-American Student Organization or the organiza­tion's president. 


Is Your Spanish Good? Are You Interested in Latin America? 
If So, The Kellogg Institute has a competition for three summer internships for undergraduates in 
Washington, DC 
with two groups that lobby and publicize latin American an Third World issues 
Minneapolis 
with a group of lawyers that works with legal and illegal aliens 
For more information contact 
either Michael}. francis, Director Latin American Area Studies 110 Hurley 631-5203/6469 
or The Main Office Kellogg Institute 216 Hesburgh Center 631-6580 
APPLICATION DEADLINE FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1998 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 2, 1998 
Protest 
continued from page 1 

and listen to the student voice. 
"The students' expression of coneern (at the protest] is to be expeeted. It's important that we hear that, and the president is constructing ways so that she hears the dia­logue," Tirnm said. 
Timm hinted at a series of informal student gatherings which Eldred is planning to host in her home to further the diseussion. 
"That will be one of her ways of continuing the dia­logue," she said. "How many college presidents do you know of that are willing to do something like that?" 
Timm addressed the overall improvement of the treatment of sexuality topics on campus. 
"Dialogue on the whole issue of sexuality has been so much better in the past two years," she said. 
Timm praised Eldred's deci­sion, stating that the whole dialogue had been elevated to yet another level. 
"This is a dialogue that should be inclusive of the entire campus, and the presi­dent's letter makes that 
Accident 
continued from page 1 

been filed against the driver, and Gorman said she did not know whether Kubiak's family planned to pursue legal action. 
"I haven't even seen the police report yet," she said. "We haven't gotten that far. 
clear," she stated. 
Timm believes that the Committee on Relationships, and consequently the College, will greatly benefit from the goals Eldred cited in last week's letter to the Saint Mary's community which detailed her findings. 
"The committee has a dif­ferent status than before -it now has a priority that it didn't have before." 
Curtis continues to assert that Eldred's proposal fails to fill the student-to-student sup­port void. 
"The issue of a student-run group is not going to just go away for the students," she said. 
Timm is encouaging College community members to "step back and think about what Eldred said in the letter." 
"Change does not happen overnight," she stated. 
Regardless, students and members of The Alliance are planning a rally for today at 
1:45 p.m. outside Stapleton Lounge, as a continuation of disapproval of Eldred's deci­sion. 
"We want to be assertive in a non-confrontational man­ner," Sherer said. "I think the rally will excite a lot of energy ... and be more inclusive of faculty and administration." 
The top priority was to make sure Serena pulled through this, and that she gets the rest she needs to recover. 
"She is looking really good, though -her mother wanted Luz and I to see her since we were there [in the accident] with her," Gorman added. "She squeezed our hands and is getting ready to start thera­
py soon." 

We've Got Some Pretty Big Shoes To Fill ... 
Try A Pair Of These On For Size. 
www.dcsys.com Forward Resumes to: recruiting@dcsys.com 
Gangs 
continued from page 1 
An audience member ques­tioned the process and possi­bilities of leaving the projects and moving to a more favor­able environment. 
"If you have a job, you can leave," Ellis said. "Save money and get another place." 
Griggs, who has also lived in Cabrini Green throughout his life, is now married and rais­ing three children in the pro­jects. He hopes to relocate in the near future. 
"Moving is the best thing for my family, for my kids," he said. 
Ellis continued to explain 

that while it sounded simple, the situation was actually very complex. If a gang member seeks a regular job, he has less time to sell drugs and consequently, the gang chief or leader receives less money. 
"In a gang, a job is a death penalty," concluded Fogerty. 
Tomes described the magni­tude of gangs' presence in the city. 
"There are 70,000 gang members in Chicago," he said. "It's gotten to the point where you can't go to school without a gun. People get shot in the school buildings." 
A student asked the panel what outsiders can do to help. 
"Interact with the kids. They need someone ... or something to keep them busy," Griggs said. 
"Gangs are here," Tomes said. "They're going to be here a long time unless soci­ety changes." 
Tomes related stories of accompanying groups of gang members to Mass, who always insisted on attending a service loeated far outside their neighborhood or territory. 
"They didn't want to ruin their tough image," he said. 
Tomes related his philoso­phy to the students whieh guides his work everyday. 
"God wants us to love one another. In the midst of tough situations in Cabrini Green, in the projects, that's what I try to convey to the people," he said. "God loves us and wants us to love each other." 
Save the E.JI\vi~oJI\meJI\+. Please Recycle The Obse~ve~. 


ht~ 


H you are a 1997-98 graduate obtaining a BS in Business, Computer Science or an MBA and are looking for a future in business technology, we are ready to meet you. 
Associate Systems Engineer 

Uses technology to solve business problems. Important and influential member of a problem-solving team for a variety of blue-chip clientele. 
Intense and challenging work environment provided. Strong work ethic expected. We will exceed your expectations and challenge your abilities. 
Sound like a fit? 

Meet DC Systems on March 3rd at 7:00 p.m. 
in the LaFortune Student Center Foster Room. 
Refreshments provided • Interviews March 4 &5 




U IYITEMI IC IYITEMI U IYITEMI U IYITEMI SOFTWARE CONSULTING EDIJCATION 
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT 

Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 


• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Deaths cause Meningitis scare 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
The recent deaths of three children has 
caused a rush on meningitis vaccines and 
led the governor to plan to set up inocula­
tion clinics in schools across the state. 
Three children from different communities 
have died since Jan. 12 after apparent 
bouts with meningitis. The most recent was 
Monday, when a 5-year-old boy died. 
Because children are falling ill with the bac­
terial infection at increasing rates, state 
health director Patricia Nolan has recom­
mended that 250.000 state residents 
between the ages of 2 and 22 be vaccinated. 
But the vaccine is in short supply, and doc­
tors' offices have repeatedly run out as 
Rhode Islanders hurry to get their children 
inoculated. 
Bush seen as 2000 frontrunner 
BILOXI, Miss. 
Despite skipping the event, Texas Gov. 
G~wrge W. Bush topped a Southern states 
straw poll of possible GOP contenders in the 
2000 presidential race. Bush was the choice 
of 18 percent of 1.106 delegates at the 
Southern Republican Leadership Confer­
ence. an organization of GOP activists in 13 
states from Oklahoma to Virginia. Publisher 
Stfwe Forbes came in second at 15 percent 
followed by former vice president Dan 
Quayle at 12 percent and Sen. Fred 
Thompson of Tennessee at 10 percent. 
While contenders claim the results meant 
litth~. some delegates said the poll indicates 
how the GOP rank-and-file feel about their 
party's presidential lineup. "It doesn't say 
what's going to happen," said Robert Foy of 
Dothan. Ala. "But as of right now, I think it 
is significant for this moment." House 
Spnaker Newt Gingrich, who politicked from 
table to table Saturday. 
Russia buries last czar 
MOSCOW 
Despite last-minute hesitations by the Orthodox Church. the government has decided to bury Hussia's last czar and close a painful chapter of history. The Cabinet voted Friday to bury the remains of Nicholas II and his family in the czars' crypt in St. Petersburg on July 17 -80 years to the day after they were execut­ed by a Bolshevik firing squad. The disposition of the remains has been the subject of heated debate since they were exhumed in July 1991 from woods near the Ural Mountains city of Yekaterinburg. First Deputy Prime Minister Boris Nemtsov said Yeltsin gave the Cabinet full authority over the burial plans, and Friday's decision was final. "There will be no other decision except this one," Nemtsov said.Nicholas was executed in Yekaterinburg, 900 miles east of Moscow, on July 17, 1918, along with his wife, five children and four ser­vants. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1770.51

8545.72 
-6.60 
NYSE: 544.26 

~ 
t0.87 

S&P 500: Composite
I I 
1049.34 Volume:+55.05 t0.67 580,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
l::llt.Jr.AI!:U:  III::KEB  'b1 CUA::iCif  i CiAI~  ~BICf  
CONNECT INC  CNKTO  250.00  1.250  1.750  
CINATION LTD  CIMTF  72.73  2.000  4.750  
Kf.I.I.Y S£RVIC£S-B  KELYB  56.92  18.500  51.000  
APPLIED IMAGING  AICX  46.34  1.188  3.750  
ntA!\:SFIELD CHINA  DCPCF  41.18  0.875  3.000  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
APS IIOLDINGS-A APSIQ 22.22 0.500 1.750 VLSIT£CIINOLOGY VLSI 21.96 5.43B 19.312 VALLEY FORGE VLF 15.49 0.688 3.750 RASTER GRAPHICS RGFX 14.29 0.500 3.000 DOCUCORP INTL-RT OOCCR 13.89 0.625 3.875 

Britons protest 'country life' policy 
250,000 march through London streets 
By AUDREY WOODS LONDON 

A quarter-million people -hunters in red coats, fishermen carrying rods and reels, chil­dren, a brass band -poured into London on Sunday to protest a government they say threatens their rural way of life. 
From the grouse moors of Scotland and the green valleys of Wales and England, landown­ers and laborers, fox hunters and their oppo­nents brought their diverse grievances to the capital in Britain's largest single demonstra­tion since anti-nuclear marches in the early 1980s. 
In a show of strength that filled main roads through the city center, they marched in com­plaint about a government many see as unsympathetic and full of urban dwellers who don't understand their ways. 
The crowd, which Scotland Yard estimated at 250,000, marched two miles from the Thames-side Victoria Embankment through Trafalgar Square to Hyde Park. 
"Tony Blair Doesn't Care About Country Life" proclaimed a placard attacking the prime minister. "This Earth is for people, not just new Labor" said another. 
Fox hunting was at the heart of the matter. 
A Labor legislator has initiated a bill to ban hunting with hounds, provoking anger among thousands of men and women who gallop across frozen farmland on winter days in pur­suit of the fox. 
Hunting opponents say it is barbaric to allow dogs to tear a fox to death and that no civilized society can tolerate it. 
Hunters say they provide a vital control of foxes, which are a farmyard pest, and that people who have no knowledge or understand­ing of the hunt have no right to deny them their sport. 
The march was organized by the pro-hunting Countryside Alliance to protest the legislation, but a huge array of other interests joined in. 
Among them are anti-hunting campaigners who have other conservation issues at heart-
from saving hedgerows to halting construction British demonstrators hold banners in Trafalgar Square yesterday in London on green fields. as thousands marched toward Hyde Park to protest against recent cha!J-ges
Some landowners are unhappy with prospec-they say make life impossible for those living in the countryside. The orgamzers tive legislation that would allow walkers to of the rally, the Countryside Alliance, hope at least 250,000 farmers, hunters roam over their acres. Organizations for "ram-and fishing and shooting en~husiasts will join the march, making it the biggest biers," as the walkers are called, marched in protest in London in 20 years. support of such a law. 
fox hunting and building on green-belt areas," he said.
Through all these issues runs the thread of deep con­"And if the ramblers get their way, farmers will not evencern about preservation of the countryside and a sense have a right of access to their own land."
that the government represents an urban viewpoint. 
Not all the marchers were country folk.
"Of course there has to be moderate change, but the Peter Pender, a retired electrician, said the only coun­government is attacking people like farmers," said Peter tryside he knew about was the window box at his seventhHaydon, who lives in Hertfordshire, 20 miles north of floor apartment in Hounslow, west London.
London, and works in the capital. 
But he said he resented the government's decision toFarm worker William Campbell said he came with 26 ban the sale of beef on the bone because of concerns that
others from his hometown of Desmartin in northwest 
it could transmit mad cow disease, or bovine spongiformNorthern Ireland. 
encephalopathy.
"I want politicians to change their mind about banning "I think it's an attack on my freedom," Pender said. 
• BELGIUM 
By ROBERT WlELAARD inflation: ···-···· 
Associared Press Wtiter Governments had to say by today how 
BRUSSELS their economies performed in 1997. 
Several European nations declared Germany; France and Italy-whose 
today they had met the strict econo.mic participation)n the euro is of lt~y 
criteria for the e11.ro• Jl1eeting a deadline 
importance a~d whose economic p~r~ • for starting the y.(_)mmon curency in fonna.nce h¥ he()Jlwidely que~ti9~et1 1999. . -said the)( Jl1Mt alltargets. . .·_···-• · · .. The data showed as many as 11 of Germany and Italy each repotted 
the 15 European Union nations may budget gaps of 2.7 percent of GDP. 
join the single cutrency -a participa­France put its. at 3.0 percent. Finland 
tion rate that seemed unlikely only a came in at 0.9. percent. Ireland report~ 
few years ed a 0.9 percent surplus. 
A final (IM~~Q!~_ ...--~~1~ ED--~----­
VIEWPOINT 
page 6 Monday, March 2, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 63I-747I SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2I9) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor ........................... Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor •................................ Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor. . ......... joey Crawfotd Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary" s Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller... . ........................... Kyle Carlin PhOlo Editor .. . .......... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the >tudems ofthe University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. lr docs nm necessarily rdlccr the policies of rhe adminiS[rarion of eidter institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprcscnr the opinion of rhe majoricy of rhc Edimr-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, leuers and Inside Columns present th~ views of the authors, and nor nect-s­sarily thost-ofThe Obs~rver. Viewpoint space is availablt-to all m~mbers of th~ Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expr~ssion ofvarying opinions rhrough l~tters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 6.~ 1-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 SpoH!'I 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 {)ay Editor/Viewp<.lint 6.~ 1-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Gen~rallnformation 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 


Columnist Doesn't Know What it Takes 
I am writing in response to the Inside Column on Feb. 25, by Spencer Stefko. I am not trying to start a fight with Mr. Stefko; in fact I agree with him in. that we need better role models for our youth. 
However, I feel the need to address some misconcep­tions about the profession of teaching. As a senior Elementary Education major, r feel my four years of training have all been worthwhile, and I do not need my education nor my degree minimalized by people thinking that "the classes essential to teaching could all 
:Pe squeezed into a summer." 
< I have observed or taught at five area South Bend schools. I was required to accumulate at least 100 hours of classroom observation or related work with students, even before I could student teach. As a stu­dent teacher, I put in about seven to eight hours at school, not to mention the time outside school spent planning for the next day's lessons, researching and collecting resources. 
As an aspiring teacher, I am prepared to be a parent, r~le model, counselor, nurse, listener, story teller, nose w1per and hug giver to my students. I am not a six hour teacher, I am a 24 hour teacher, dedicated to my call­ing and true to my mission of educationg children. 
.. Some people can be good teachers without studying 
·education, some people in education are terrible teach­ers. I feel that t.o have even a slight concept of' teach­ing, education courses are essential, observation time :is valuable, and student teaching is a must. Through student teaching you can test the water. For some it may have been too cold and they jumped back out. For others, perhaps it was too hot. I found it to be just right and wm gladly venture into the shark infested water anytime. Teaching is very challenging, and those who can, teach. 
Besides shaping minds. touching lives forever and being a positive role model, at the very least I will have an insurance plan, a retirement fund and about a month of the summer to enjoy out of school. 
What a bonus to this $25,000-a-year profession. 
Sarah K. Reynolds Senior, Annuncidta Hall February 25, I 998 
• 
000NESBURV 
Qt4~~JUSTtdAL..KH/M /XItuN 7D 7HI3 G77U7CWI-{(X/q5. $TA RCC&If7TANt?MeeT MeAT7lle1/5(/AL. PLACe... 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
1/BY/a!Ke!>tJV JUMP!?/?!JAil-, 
700, 171/?N'T 
PIPN'T 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 

"Taking to pieces is the trade of those who can­not construct." 
-Ralph Waldo Emerson on critics 

VIEWPOINT
Monday, March 2, 1998 
• fROM THE lEFT 
Sweatpants and Malls: The Baffling State of American Culture 
Every so often. I have that rare moment of lucidity where one side of being an American makes sense. I'm sitting in an International House of Pancakes. drinking their road tar coffee with my comrade Colleen just south of San Francisco about a year ago. Some polyester-dad management type has decided that what we consumers desire is an easy listening station who currently is piping in the soft mush of an Electric Light Orchestra song. In walks two elderly men. beltless brown pants hiked up too far. and they stumble over to a table in the corner. The Napoleon-complex manager seems disturbed by the few people in his already pristine IHOP. and verbally whips his waitresses into frenetic action. 
The pink 

wallpaper. the 
fake plants. the 
horrid teal-col­
ored land­
David 

scapes, the sweating con­trol-freak man­
McMahon 

ager, the strip 
mall. the 

dulling atmos­
phere, and the 
clueless sali­vating mouths of the few patrons, eagerly awaiting the dutr:h-apple pancakes with powdered sugar they have come to love more than their children. We have done it! Trampled and lassoed the land! Tamed the wilds and replaced them with colonial-styled chain restaurants! We have achieved what we set out to do before and after Manifest Destiny: obtain the pure zen of comfort, sur­round ourselves with endless arrays of product choice and comfort-enabling devices and crush our emotions flatter than mass-produced pancakes. Congratulations are in order! Handshakes all around! The entertainment mall of Disney-driven dreamscapes has replaced the town square, and we can stroll about it via the democratic institution of the internet. We can wear our zebra-striped matching sport-team outfit and parade around the tem­perature controlled mall. the sticky coating of consumer resin crusting above our lips. We have created an empire based on an endless cycle of ever-increasing consumption and gluttony. We have reduced civilization to the post­modern rubble of sweatpants and malls. 
Antiquated notions like justice, social morality, and human rights have been triumphed over by the market, self-absorption and apathy towards our own extinction. The strong economy so heralded by Alan Greenspans the world over is actually a quickening of our own demise as a species. Ever-increasing products for an ever-increas­ing market of ever-increasing population can only mean eventual saturation. We become blinded by our own ter:hnologieal gadgetry when it comes down to biological case studies of extinction. We so hubristically believe ourselves to be above laws governing nature because of our rational minds. The technological messiah is touted with increasing frenzy these days. in pointedly absurd and often contradictory manners. Media drools over the prospect of science/nature creating septuplets as we race towards overpopulation, and scarcity of resources. Nature channels brag about the human capacity to rebuild coral reefs. and the IRS gives Exxon added tax breaks for spilling oil in Alaska. 
Kings of the dung heap -such as Nike -fashion a double exploitation of the poor: slavery in the sweatshops and shoes being sold to impoverished inner-city youths as an elixir of "gangsta" style. Michael Jordan shamelessly sells product for a morally bankrupt and evil company. The r,arnival of American consumerism has pitched a tent over all culture. rendering distinctions nearly meaningless as we all sit in the tent and watch the endless progression of Paula Jones. murdering nannies. world-class figure skaters. popes in Cuba, crazy Nigerian strikers. George Foreman-endorsed info-products and Nike poetry slams. We sit back. suck it all through a straw, and allow the decline of civilization to rage unabated. We don't see the monfly r:hange hands. we miss the real flnemies who hoist this endless deluge ofjunk into our minds and hands, because. as "The Bal11er" so poignantly notes. power has become invisible, the enemy now honors Martin Luther King, Jr.. the enemy sponsors the avant-garde, the enemy offers anarcho-socialist syndicalist transexuals the prod­uct of a lifetime. 
This modus operandi of capital -the unloading of tiny plastic toys and bloated looking sneakers upon our society -is reinforced seven-fold by the middle-managers and dupes in corporations whose job it is to make sure we hunger for a little rebellion in our tacos or the accouter­ments of aristocracy in cuban cigars. I bear eye witness to the endless parade of broken down corporate hags, pudgy cholesterol-ridden bosses and acne-faced young temps. Working as a temp in the past. I always encoun­tered the lowest sorts of ground-down dust of capital. those who fit will into Melville's conception of Bartleby the Scrivener. Quietly, they rebel in ways unknown even to them against oppressive business systems. They are qui­eted by the humor of capitalist-dupe "Dilbert," Scott Adam's creation which allows managers to laugh at they own foibles and cry, "Aren't we all human," as they break strikes in Detroit, or sign themselves another 35 percent raise. Times are good. Indeed they are for the power class of this country whom everyone seems intent on ignoring theses days, as the soup kitchen becomes replaced by increasingly complex means of bread for the masses-think only of NBA stars, Nike!Reebok-styled revolution, pierced punksters on Pepsi ads. or "doin' the Dew!" The unabated flow ofjunk distracts us from our own misery, from the massive poverty of our own people. 
The distinction between entertainment and foreign poli­cy. for example, has become a blurred line. First of all. we never hear a counterpoint to the discussion on Iraq. it is always a question of how our empire is going to punish this restless little neo-oil colony. and the absurd opinion -nearly alone in world opinion-that this little tin-pot dictator resembles Adolf Hitler at Munich. It is the kind of "Right Reason" Big Brother logic that creates the equa­tion two plus two equals five. In 1992, Americans suf­fered from "Clean War Syndrome," the uncanny ability to separate ourselves from human suffering and death, as if 

we had just left the film "Titanic" and thought momentar­ily about the horrors of human suffering. For six years now, the suffering of Iraqis due to our policies has never once entered the discussion. Imagine the impudence of the U.S., a country whose biological. chemical and nuclear capabilities make Iraq look like Kearny, New Jersey! 
In any event, we need sound debate, with talk from the other side as well, before we allow the war hawks to descend once again into a nation far from ours. Or per­haps we maybe should just speed up development of elec­tric cars and leave Iraq be. I believe that much like the chip being installed in TV, allowing parental discretion, we should now have a junkie chip as well. that filters out Dan Rather blather, Rush Limbaugh and all this Monica Lewinsky junk. Or perhaps the better measure would be to junk TV altogether and spend more time with our fami­lies. with our communities, and with ourselves, repairing what we've done to ourselves with Cap'n Crunch, Nike, the NBA. and so on, and so on. 
David McMahon is still in Burlington, Vermont, shiver­ing under afoot ofsnow and ice. He can be reached at dmcmahon32@hotmail.com. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Rock, JACC ••• Schlap? 
I am writing to bring an issue into the public forum which I feel needs to be addressed. Although the new Rolfs Sports Recreation Center is a great facility. its name is its great weakness. When we refer to buildings. it is always with a quick, easy-to-pronounce word. For instance: the Rock. the JACC, Loftus, the Eck. All of these names can be quickly shot from your tongue. But the RSRC? What can it be called? It can't be called "Rolfs" because we already have the Rolfs aquatic center. "RecSports" is way too ambigu­ous. And I dare anyone to say "RSRC" phoneti­cally without sounding like they're rabid. 
Luckily, I have a solution. We must begin refer­ring to the RSRC by an arbitrary nickname. I have found one that is simply everything you could ask from a nickname. It is: "The Schlappy." That's right, "The Schlappy," pro­nounced just how it looks. This could serve as a simple and unique name for the RSRC. Of course. it will inevitably be shortened to "The Schlap." which is a positive evolution. Going to work out at the Schlap tonight? Me too, I'll meet you there. 
Frank Helgesen Freshman, O'Neill Hall Feb. 25. 1998 


page 8 Monday, March 2, 1998 
Oscar nomination brings 'Boogie' back to screen 

Eddie's first on-screen sex scene with Amber. It is a fascinating scene in that we see all reactions ­the camera men filming the seene, the reactions of the director, Horner, and the way that Eddie and Amber handle such an occurrence. The movie's audience is forced to understand how these eharacters view sexuality. 
One of the film's strengths is that it doesn't fall into the Hollywood trap of using sex as a rhetorical strate­gy; the movie doesn't use sex for the sexy quali­ties. 
The film is con­cerned with the opposing views of the nature of sex within the confines of the different characters on the screen. That is the real subject. And it is the uncom­promising presence of this "real subject" that allows "Boogie Nights" to explain why a life of hedo­nism and cheap sex may create the illusion of happiness. 
This film does not get too wrapped up in preaehing. It is true to the porn life in all respects. It lets the darker aspects of life come out in humorous form. There are plenty of raunchy jokes and moments when the viewer blushes for laughing, but can't stop. 

Especially funny is a scene when Little Bill, Horner's assistant director William H. Macy gets agitated at his porn-star wife's beyond-gratu­itous promiscuity outside her profession. We know we shouldn't be laughing at such a situation, but of 
course we do. "Boogie Nights" is true to the nature of the humor about its subject. In form and structure, the film resembles Martin Scorsese's 
"Casino" and "GoodFellas." All three movies tell the story of the weakness of man and 
how this weakness mani­fests itself through the illusion of ephemeral happiness. All three get to the root of the prob­lem and show us char­acters that are not 
one-note eviL There is a genuine sense of love among the main characters. 
"Boogin Nights" is not afraid to admit that "low people" are capable of love and respnet, even outsidn of their professional domain. Those people are human and des­tined to care about something. Their only problem is that they don't know how to do so without letting their self­ishness and ignoranee come 
first. 

Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema Productions, Inc. 
Burt Reynolds plays adult film producer Jack Horner in "Boogie Nights." 
The darker side of 'Dark City' 


just WEIHD. "Dark City" is about aliens, (a cross between Uncle Fester on slim fast and Stephan King}, who try to find out what makes a human being a human. These "strangers," as they are called, need to find out how to be like homo sapi­ens or else they will die. They do this by injecting their subjects with other peoples' memories, seeing how they react to the belief that they are, say, a 
serial killer. 

Nobody in the film has a past and there's basically no character develop­ment, plus the viewer couldn't care less about what happens to the guinea pigs. 
The overall theme of the movie is some­thing like this -are we more than just the greater collection of our memories? Do our memories and our past experi­ences dictate behavior in the present? While this might seem profound, the questions are brushed over and answered Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema Productions, Inc. as Yes and No. 
Rufus Sewel stars in the newly released sci-fi thriller "Dark City." "Dark City" follows one man as he of the Obvious." Calling "Dark City" weird is an understatement. In fact, calling the calling of "Dark City" weird is an understatement in itself. If you didn't quite catch the understatement in an understatement idea, just under­stand this-do NOT go see "Dark City." 
Obviously, the next few paragraphs will just be a huge bashing of this "movie." "Movie" is said with great cyn­icism, because this is really like one of those weird goth/techno videos they show on MTV at 3 a.m. 
Enough stalling. You're waiting for the inevitable plot summary because you have no idea what this movie is about. 
Okay, here goes. Get ready to roll your eyes as far back as physically pos­sible, because this plot is 


achieves the alien's power to "Tune" (emit bad special effects from tlwir fomheads) and therefore battle ene­mies and save the city from being a junior high exper­iment gone bad. 
Yes, "Dark City" makes less sense than the material in chemical engineering classes. 
The tempation is to label acting as the worst aspect of the movie, but there are a lot of parts that are absolute trash. Keifer Sutherland gives the worst per­formance of his career, acting as a cross between Quasimodo and William Shatner. lie limps around like Ethan Frome, speaking three syllables at a time and throwing in obnoxious pauses for no apparent reason. 

CHAMPIONSHIP RESULTS 
page 1 "Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nourished." Monday, March 2, 1998 
• SPOTLIGHT 

Molina gains revenge over Will 
Senior captain  
ends career on  
a high note  
By SHANNON RYAN  
Spons Writer  
As Lucas Molina sunk to his  
knees, sobbing and blessing  
himself, Tom Will hung his  
head and masked himself with  
a brave face.  
There was no doubt this was  
more  than a  typical boxing  
match. It was a battle for vindi­ 
cation and of the heart.  This  
was the sweet science at its  
sweetest.  
Two captains. Controversy.  
Tension. A rematch.  
It proved worthy of the talk.  
As the emcee stretched the  
delivery of the decision, the  
roaring crowd of seconds ago  
fell close to silent then roared  
again in a medley of boos and  
cheers as Molina's raised arm  
indicated a win.  
He had been vindicated.  
Last year, Molina thought he  
was slighted after the split  
decision went to Will. He left  
the  ring  without  shaking  
hands, shaking only his head in  
dismay.  
Last year, he was bitter and The Observer/Brandon Candura  
bewildered. This year, he was Senior Lucas Molina (left) falls to his knees in celebrating his split decision victory over junior Tommy Will. The win helped Molina gain a  
measure of revenge against Will, who defeated him in last year's finals. brilliant and brazen.  
"I felt the pressure [going into the match]," Molina said after the match, enclosed in a tight hug from his wife and receiving slaps on the back from friends. "It feels so good to end as a champ. This defi­nitely gives me lots of closure [after last year]." After last year's controversy, the fighters never sparred in practice. Both admitted to awk­wardness during preparation. The tension ran as high as the stakes. And they both knew it. In the first round, however, it was Molina who pounced to draw first blood. The senior's swinging arms seemed to be made out of springs as he bul­lied Will into the ropes several times with his hooks.  "He kept the pressure on and didn't relax at all," Will said. "He was throwing lots of hooks that were coming fast and crisp." "El Mariachi's" black-booted feet didn't stop dancing in the second round. Nor did his gloves stop connecting. Molina's full-packed punch sent Will jumping back on more than one occasion. "I just told myself to keep punching," Molina said. "I think it was my power [that won it]. I know he can walk right through any of my jabs. But he rang my bell a couple of times too." Will delivered some effective body shots and jabs, but Molina  knew they were coming and he was prepared. He combatted Will's patient intelligent strate­gy with his simple philosophy of quickness. "I was ready to take his body shots," Molina said. "I think I can say I've developed quite a body shot." In the final round, Molina had a slight edge and Will knew it could be close. He backed Molina into a corner with a surge of sudden power. Awaiting the clotting of Will's blood in the third, Molina had time to think. As the crowd split in cheering of "Will" and "Molina," the Texas native questioned his confidence after the first and second rounds.  "I really couldn't tell who was going to win," Molina said. But Will's late effort wasn't enough. And he, along with the judges, knew it. "In every fight, you're not sure how much you scored because it's based on points," Will said. "But I knew it wasn't a decisive victory so it wasn't a dramatic let down. I didn't feel I had been cheated." But Molina's mind was replaying last year, when he was robbed of what he thought a deserving victory. With the final clang of the bell, Molina knew he couldn't rely on his punches any more. So he prayed. "I tried to say as many Hail  Mary's as I could before the last bell and the decision," Molina said. Then his prayers were answered by a referee who raised Molina's glove into the air. This year, he had a differ­ent reason for tears. Crowned king of the 135­pound weight class, Molina raked in his third champi­onship, basking in glory. Last year, Molina said, "He may have gotten the decision, but he didn't beat me. Tonight, the decision went the wrong way." Now, a year later, Molina has proven himself in the ring and see MOLINA I page 2  
• 
160 TO 170 POUND DIVISION 



Biolchini joins his father and brothers as champion 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sports Editor 
160-POUND WEIGHT CLASS 

Family ties permeate the Bengal Bouts each year. This year, a set of brothers compet­ed. a father coached his son and three brothers coached and worked the corner for their younger brother. 
Senior Chip Farrell had his father in the corner for his 160­pound weight class champi­onship. In the other, sophomore Tom Biolchini had his three brothers, all former Bengal Bouts competitors, in the cor­ner. 
"I heard everything they said," Biolchini said. "They were awe­some, especially when it came to the uppercut." 
The fight between Farrell and Biolchini took on a completely different look than was predict­ed. Biolchini charged right at Farrell, landing him in the ropes. 
"I knew that I couldn't dog fight him because he is the best fighter," Biolchini said. 
Farrell's technical type attack never truly materialized. For the first time of these Bouts, he found himself being attacked and not being the attacker. In the first round, Farrell did not land a scoring punch. 
Both knew that in order to win a fight the boxer must control the center of the ring. Each bat­tled for the upper hand, yet nei­ther could fully control the cen­ter. The two fought in the center for the majority of all three rounds. 
"It was completely thought of by my brothers because I was going to come right at him," Biolchini said. ''They said no you need to go for the jab because he is too good a boxer and he will beat you." 
The second round and third round consisted of the same, with Biolchini being so aggres­sive that he completely threw oft' Farrell. Biolchini relied heavily on his jab and various combina­tions to confuse his opponent. By the conclusion of the fight, a fatigued Farrell seemed in a 
see BOUTS I page 2 


page 2 The Observer· BENGAL BOUTS Monday, March 2, 1998 
Romanchek breathes a sigh of relief 
• 
175 TO HEAVYWEIGHT WEIGHT CLASSES 


By ALLISON KRILLA  going to practice again [today]."  
Sports Writer  
175-POUND WEIGHT CLASS  
180-PoUND WEIGHT ClASS  
In the 175-pound division,  
To the untrained eye, Friday's  Brian Gall'ney succeeded in his  
180-pound title bout between  quest for a  third consecutive  
Mike  Homanchek  and  Dan  Bengal Bouts championship,  
Prince was the night's most con­ defeating Chris Dobranski in  
troversial.  three rounds.  
But the split decision victory  It was Gaffney's first this year  
for Homanehek revealed the  to last beyond the first round, as  
subtleties of amateur boxing.  both fighters used an aggressive  
"I think that the outcome was  style that left both bleeding.  
considered  controversial  "It wasn't so much  nerve­ 
because Dan hit me a lot, and  wracking," Dobranski said. "But  
each time he did it was a knock­ with other fights I had an idea  
out puneh," Homanchek said.  what I was going to do based on  
"But what many people don't  the other lighter's style. With  
realize is that in amateur boxing  Brian you're never quite sure  
a jab counts just as mueh as a  what he's going to do. This fight  
knoekout punch."  required a lot more thought."  
Romanchek controlled the  The constant attacks by both  
first round, landing a majority of  fighters, and precision of their  
his jabs to keep Prince on the  jabs led to the night's bloodiest  
ropes. As the fight progressed,  contest and a decision to end the  
Prince's conditioning allowed  light before its end.  
him to land a flurry of jabs, even  "This was a really fun fight,"  
knocking Homanchek back in  Dobranski said. "We were both  
the seeond round.  hitting each other hard, and it  
Entering the third round, the bout appeared deadlocked, and  was as much fun as that could be."  The Observer/John Daily Despite some big hits by Dan Prince (right), top-seed Mike Romanchek captured the 180-pound title.  
Homanchek and Prince turned  
up the intensity. Prince came out strong, but Homanchek fought back, throwing straight jabs to keep Prince on the defensive.  185-POUND WEIGHT CLASS The night's biggest crowd­pleaser came in the 185-pound division, as friends Dave Butz  respected his big punches, so I had to come out being very aggressive and not wait to counter what he did." Hebert dominated the first  Dave because whenever some­one ends stronger, you think they won," Hebert said. HEAVYWEIGHT CLASS  big punches, while landing his jabs. "I was the taller guy. and I just tried to use my jab to keep him away," said Ryan. "Plus, he  
"I wasn't sure which way it was going to go," Romanchek said. "I didn't have a great fight beeause Dan really took me out of game plan. "!The decision! was a relief. I felt really happy, but it wasn't elation," Homanchek said. "I was actually kind of sad for it to eome to an end; I wish we were  and Andrew Hebert squared off. Second-seeded Hebert started strong and staved off top-seeded Butz's comeback attempts in the final round for the victory. "I was pretty relaxed all day, as opposed to Wednesday," Hebert said. "Unfortunately I had to fight one of my good friends. I knew that he knew I  round with persistence and jabs that put Butz on the ropes early. But the second round turned into a slugfest, with both boxers trading big punches. In the third round, Butz's stamina gave him the edge, but it was too late. Yet the outcome was still a surprise to Hebert. "I basically congratulated  The heavyweight division also provided its share of upsets, as freshman Peter Ryan earned his first Bengal Bouts title with a victory over top-seeded Dave Monahan. Ryan's control and stamina proved too much for the bigger Monahan. Ryan used his quickness to elude Monahan's  didn't really come in on me." But the spirit of Bengal Bouts touched even the largest cham­pion. ''I'm really happy that I got to participate," said Ryan. "Winning was more about hav­ing gone through the six weeks of training with all these guys and getting in the ring."  

nitely be the 135-pound champ. I feel awful both of us couldn't
Molina 
win." Maybe next year, Molina will
continued from page 1 
come back to sit in Will's corner stored away hard feelings. and cheer him on. But in this 
"Tommy's a hell of a guy and bout, the will and desire was on a hell of an athlete," Molina said. Molina's side. "I've never held anything A rematch was settled. A con­against him. And I'll tell you troversy put to rest. A story cre­what-next year, he will deli-atlld worth retelling. 
.~ttl Annual Bengal ·. '',ilts Finals Results 
IMatt Peacock def. David Frick IThomas Biolchini def.1 1Chip Farrell 
I 
Jer~my Leatherby def. 1:-Richard Molloy def. James Sur Dav1d Seerveld 
~lucas Molina del. Tom Will ~Norm Beznoska def. Ryan Rans 
No. 1 seed Richard Molloy, shown here grabbing on to senior James Sur, rolled to a decisive victory. 
advantage to his opponent, His powerful lefts and senior James Sur. First-finalist immense upper-body strength
Bouts IMichael Maguire IBrian Gaffney def.
Sur had a slight height advan-ensured that Molloy, not Sur, 
~def.Sean Sharpe ~Chris Dobranski
tage but Molloy showed no signs held the advantage. 
of intimidation. In the first round alone, Sur dazn as he watehed his last "Last year, I just went forward received a standing eight count chance to secure another title and took way too many shots," and a bloody nose due to slip away. Biolehini ensured his Molloy said. "It is hard to see Molloy. 
continued from page 1 
~J.R. Mellin del. David Murphy IMike Romanchek def.
1Daniel Princefirst win with the final blow, a what's going on when your just stiff uppercut which stunned charging in head first. I used 170-POUND WEIGHT CLASS Farrell. lots more patience." Senior Norm Beznoska earned 
Biolchini daimnd his first title Molloy stuck to his plan of his first Bengals title with a with a split-decision over the patience and control. He waits walkover win against senior defending champion. for his opponents' guards to go Ryan Rans. 
~Fred Kelly del. Stefan Molina ~Andrew Hebert del. Dave Butz 
down and then he pounces on The crowd and coaches took a 165-J>OUND WEIGIIT ClASS his opportunity. moment to acknowledge Hans Hich Molloy captured his first "I was kind of waiting out his for his hard work and dedica­title after losing out last year to punches a little bit," Molloy said. tion this year. The captain 
IMichael LaDuke def. ~Peter Ryan del. Dave Monahan
Farrell. Entering the 165-pound "I kind of tried to lead in with injured his hands in the semifi­
~Adrian Cardona
weight class championship, the right hand and try and get nals, and therefore could not Molloy appeared to be at a dis-close to him. He was tough." fight. 
The ObserverfTom Roland 



p ·,. Monday, March 2, 1998 The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS page 3 
.: 
.145 TO 155-POUND WEIGHT ClASSES 
LaDuke crushes Cardona to finally earn respect 

Leatherby  victory until last week. As the top seed last year, he was upset by then sophomore David  
takes the  Seerveld in the semis. Friday night was Peacock's night, how­ 
ever,  as  he  came  out  and  
"prance" out ofSeerveld  defeated sophomore David Frick in a unanimous decision. Peacock said before the fight that he hoped that he being a left-handed fighter would play  
By BETSY BAKER Associate Sports Editor  to his advantage, and that was exactly what happened. Peacock was able to go up-and­ 
The 125-pound to 140-pound weight dasses do not usually produce the closest, most power-packed fights of the Bengal Bouts. Usually, it is a matter of who is more experi­enced and a better technical pugilist. not who is stronger, therefore leading to many lop­ under Frick with a left hook right from the first bell, and he never looked back. "I just tried to go out there and do what I did in the semifi­nals," Peacock said. ''I've been in this situation before and have come up short. Tonight, I guess Ijust did what it takes to win."  
sided lights in the lower weight classes.  130-POUND WEIGHT CLASS  
In Friday night's finals of the 68th annual bouts, however. anyone who showed up late missed four great fights.  The 130-pound matchup saw one of the year's premiere rookies face off with one of the more quirky fighters in the The Observer/Brandon Candura  
125-POUND WEIGIIT CLASS In the 125-pound division, senior Matt Peacock spent four years in the program without a  finals. Freshman Jere my Leatherby upset the junior Seerveld with the self-imposed nickname "The Prancing Pixie," with a combination of speed  Lucas Molina (right) successfully lanand power. Seerveld had the clear reach advantage in the fight, but Leatherby was too athletic for the prancer, deliver­ ds punches early and often against Molina the edge in the split decision. Both Molina and Will appeared more like professional fighters than amaterur college  defending champion Tommy Will. 140-POUND WEIGHT CLASS In the 140-pound class, fans  
ing jab after jab and dazing  students, as the final provided a  saw another upset as senior  
Seerveld.  showcase of two of the most  captain Sean Sharpe fell to  
"He had the reach on me, but  well-trained fighters in the pro­ junior Mike Maguire in a split  
I think my power made a big  gram.  decision.  Much like in the 135­ 
difference," Leatherby said.  "I  The difference in this year's  pound final, Maguire came out  
think I hurt him early on, and  light  -as it was in last year's  with  the  more  aggressive  
he didn't expect it.  After the  -was who controlled the ring  approach, forcing Sharpe to  
first round, I think I just kind of  and determined what kind of  adjust and eliminating any  
coasted."  fight it would be.  While Will  room for conservative fighting.  
Leatherby was able to control  was able to take the wind out of  Maguire controlled the ring  
the tempo of the light with his  Molina's power-packed sails  for the first round of the fight,  
athleticism,  a  major key in  last year, Molina was able to  forcing Sharpe to be  on  the  
accomplishing the upset of the junior.  force Will to drop his conserva­tive, patient approach and fight  defensive. In the second round, Sharpe was able to put forth  ,.·  
the quicker and more aggres­ more offense, but the Magurie  
135-POUND WEIGHT CLASS  sive fight.  barrage left him vulnerable to  
"I think I was able to take him  giving up points.  And that is  
The  135-pound  division  away from his game plan a lit­ what happened.  By the time  
proved to be all that was antici­ tle," Molina said.  "It was a little  Maguire started to get a little  
pated of the Lucas Molina-Tom  faster,  more uptempo than I  fatigued in the third round, it  
The Observer/Brandon Candura Senior Matt Peacock, who had not won a fight in his three previous years of competition, finally captures the 125-pound title.  Will rematch, and in the end, it was the desire of a senior in his last fight that appeared to give  think he would have liked. But I still wasn't sure what the out­come would be."  was too late for Sharpe to come back, giving Maguire the deci­sion.  


By MIKE DAY Just seconds into the fight, finals as the top seed but was Sports Editor Emeritus LaDuke showered Cardona with upset by second-ranked Ted a barrage of punches that imme­Pegano. After a full year of 155-POUND WEIGHT CLASS diately forced Cardona's nose to training virtually every day, bleed. Even after the cut was Kelly, who dedicated this year's 
All week long, he had every­cleaned up, LaDuke continued to Bouts to Angelo Busani and Pat body fooled. While spectators pick apart Cardona. Carbone, made sure there believed the top seed in the 155-Despite a tremendous effort, wouldn't be a repeat of last pound weight division was strug­the trainers were unable to stop year's outcome. gling, he was merely saving his the bleeding. As a result, the "It [last year's loss] was the best for last. fight was stopped 16 seconds fuel for this year," Kelly said. "It 
Juior Mike LaDuke may have into the round and LaDuke was was a little bit of redemption. I been unimpressive in advancing awarded the victory by TKO. exorcised a few demons." to the finals, but he certainly "I knew he bled some in the made up for it on Friday night. semifinals, so I tried to take 145-POUND WEIGHT CLASS The first-year captain thorough­advantage of that," LaDuke said. ly whipped freshman Adrian ''I'm kind of sorry the fight was In the 145-pound division, top­Cardona to capture his first stopped when it was. It would seed J.R. Mellin shook off an career Bengal Bouts title. have been nice for him to have uninspiring victory in the semifi­
"He had been getting a lot of the chance to finish the fight." nals to win over junior Dave hype all week, but those who Murphy. know fighting knew I was the 150-POUND WEIGHT CLASS After barely escaping with a better fighter going in," LaDuke split decision win against David said. "He was real aggressive, There are few sure things in Bann on Wednesday, Mellin but he didn't have any defense. boxing, but Fred Kelly winning didn't know what to expect I knew that my jab and quick­the 150-pound division was heading into Friday's finals. He ness would help me win." about the closest thing to it. The erased all doubts, however, just 
In his first year of boxing, senior captain dominated fellow a few seconds into the fight. Cardona emerged as one of the senior Stefan Molina from start "I was pretty nervous after top newcomers in the tourna­to finish in earning a unanimous struggling a little bit on ment, relying primarily on his decision for a fitting cap to his Wednesday," Mellin said. "Guys "streetfighter" style and mentali­brilliant career. who charge have caused me ty. And given his enormous "My game plan was just to problems. He [Murphy] had strength and punching power, box. The one thing I learned last been coming out fast [in previ­many expected Cardona to year is I'm a decent fighter but I ous rounds], so I was waiting for upend LaDuke in the finals. can be a good boxer," Kelly said. him to come out -but he never 
That simply wasn't the case. A year ago, Kelly entered the came." 
Peacock finds 125-pound title worth the wait 
page 4 The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS 

Three years ago, Ryan ans sat in a hospit an as ed the doctor if he would be able to box again. This past Wednesday, he asked the same question but got a different answer. Ryan broke bones in both of his hands en route to winning his semifinal bout. He had put his life on hold for boxing, and was devastated when he was defeated outside of the ring. Lucas Molina said it best Friday night, "#1 has the night off." 
Monday, March 2, 1998 
The Boxer's Hands 
Photos by John Daily 



Monday, March 2, 1998 
• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 
Eighties flick thrills modern audiences 
By JOSH BECK 
Accent Movie Critic 
Although brimming with cult enthusiasm and a flair for the mysterious. "Blade Runner" has survived from its ineeption to the present. 
Directed by Hidley Seott and starring Harrison Ford. this film has stood the test of time as one of the best sd-li films ever pro­duced. Through his use of incredible sets and special effects. Scott created a master­piece for all time. 
Although derided by critics after its release in 1982. today the film has a cult following. Aside from critiques of the film itself, Blade Bunner is still best examined as what it was meant to be -a sci-fi film employing all of the aspects of !ilm noir in telling a dark, yet fascinating story. 
"Blade Runner" is film noir. Its detective nature, the dark lighting, and the camera angles all make it a perfect replica of classic film noir representations. 
Its ambianee is altogether ter­rifying, but accommodating in nature. The story of Deckard (Ford), a man employed as a "Blade Runner" to hunt down humanoid replicants who have gotten out of control is some­what striking but thoroughly enjoyable. 
The acting comes through with a superb Butger Hauer playing the part of the leader of the replicants and Soan Young as Deckard's love interest. Edward James Olmos also has a bit role as Deckard's sometime­accomplice and Daryl llannah is good as Hauer's replicant girl­friend. 
The acting. although good, is definitely not what this film tries to exhibit. "Blade Runner" is about a rainy, dreary, futuris­tic world. Set in Los Angeles in the year 2019, the film provides a bleak outlook for America's future and that of the world. 
The most interesting aspect of this movie is the fact that the original was so panned by critics that Scott produced a director's cut a few years later. The cut is definitely many times better than the original. With the absence of Ford's narration and a couple of new shots added in, the director's cut is visually stunning. 
The history of "Blade Runner" is also interesting. After com­pletion of the film in 1982, the studio pressured Scott into changing some scenes to accom­modate the crowd and make the film easier to comprehend and more enjoyable. To Scott's dis­may, a drab narration was added with Ford's voice and a new, happier ending was tacked on. A primary reason for the director's cut, it brings into question whether Deckard is himself a replicant by adding a new scene into a particular sequence. 
Both versions of "Blade Bunner" are thoroughly enjoy­able and viewing the original is a definite must for a newcomer to the film. The original provides information undetected in the director's version. Don't let the cult following fool you -"Blade Bunner" is definitely a movie for the masses and will remain one of the best sci-fi films of all time. 
This week in Port '-'u•..rvA.,., that Robin knows Michael's true and is worried that Miss Scorpio Will spill the beans. Jason tells her notto worry: . wou~d never.·· 
betray him that way~ early ot so sure. She · refuses a gift from Monica and Jason reminds her to stay away. Monica tll.~n sends Bobbie over to make ove;tt1res, E~Ward Jl1eets Carly for lunch and attempts to charni her, Lila inter~ rupts and warns Carly against betraying)ason. 
Lizzie tells both Sarah and Audrey about her attack. Sarah is supportive bti! as for Audrey, denial is not just a river l · t• It's Bobbie who convinces Liz to go to a ctor and holds her hand through the exam. 
Bobbie thinks Luke ought to tell Lucky about 
his rape ofLaura on the ... .·.··· · .ears ago, since it might !'!,lin Lu Ll.f rela­tionship if the truth comes . ano er way. Luke assures her it happened a niillion years ago, but even he keeps hayi11g nashbll,cks. Lucky tells Bobbie to back()t'f "¥ll.en .. p;~ pears the taU end of the conversation .and he d~fends his Dad. Later, the Spencer men go and find Liz's bracelet for her and announces his desire to find the man · 
Stefan .is touched ·•· 
~ver gave him gifts oli his baptism day, and (!)l.lrprise!) tpe benehlooks just like the one · htl. · .. In Gtt;jece.Hep~:at afterme ... . .' "o... us one equals two}' Stefan sits 
Qn the ben,ch and remembers Laura. He reveals to Kathy that he has only loved one woman in his life and then kisses her. The r"(\!llan's iqentity? Three guesses and the first two don't e(}unt. 
Stefan andNikolas remember Greece and his childhood. Stefan tells him that his father and m(}ther c9n~ived him .ill love and Nik wonders if Stefan loved Laura. Uncle (or is it Father?) quickly denies iL Later; Nik finds the portrait in the basement and Stefan covers by saying he had it painted for Nik should he ever wish for a pjc~ure ofhismother. . · 
Jason is sending the unions out on strike as soon as the Q's break ground for the dock ren· ovation, but there's trouble. Jax visits to tell hi~· aboutatebel lieutenant that will try to replace hhnibut negl~cts to mention that he was the one who incited the rebellion. 
Jason and Justus have a war council. Jason decides that. he needs to change. his image to ~pm~and l;he respect ofhis men, He has to look like leader, not a soldier, so early takes him shopping. 
Carly tells Robin to stay out of their family. At th~ meeting, J~son is l.ibout to be whacked by ~ men; Itlooks like there could he a family in 
ti'()tible. ··••··· 
qu.estiorte.~d. at the sta~ ·to ~tote ct hetjididri't notice any Anr•~h<>~l'ln admitted that she the entire story~ 
enieJ•ged as he 
.....~....~'"'" children; to listening to deal with 

iss:t.iltw·anlflerin_g around Satem 
ami ··. of Best Villanness on Friday night's Soap Opera Awards) felt very torn ~.9\{t Fr:a~~o. Austin i~ obyiously not jealQU$ 
of tpem, so iShe told Franco to qUit hanging around her. In an effort to further charm Sami. Franco gave her fancy business cards and asked her to trust him. She caved, of 
se. He ~ontinues ,helping h~r with her n ..... image. ··. 
Carrie helped Mike with his new image. Mike decidedto apply for Chief of Staff at the h ... al. Cari'1etook.hiJ;llshopping for snaz~y 
.p le; red, and yellow shirts and ties. She also decided to be his PR rep. 
Carrie confronted Mike about being the married woman he is in love with, but he lied t() ll.~r; She tQl<l Mike about Austin wanting a child; but she wants to wait. 



Movie Title/(Gross Sales for weekend) 
1. Titanic ($19. 7 million) 
2. 
The Wedding Singer ($9 million) 

3. 
Good Will Hunting ($6.6 million) 

4. 
Dark City ($5.5 million) 

5. 
As Good As It Gets ($4 million) 

6. 
Sphere ($3.8 million) 

7. 
Krippendorf's Tribe ($3.2 million) 

8. 
The Borrowers ($2.8 million) 9. Senseless ($2. 5 million 


10. Caught Up ($2.4 million) 
Source: NY Times AP online 


Video Title/(Gross Sales for the week) 
1. 
Air Force One ($1 0.18 million) 

2. 
Devil's Advocate ($4.28 million) 

3. 
G. I. jane ($4.04 million) 

4. 
The Game ($2.9 million) 

5. 
Conspiracy Theory ($2.49 million) 

6. 
Nothing to Lose ($2.23 million) 

7. 
Event Horizon ($1.66 million) 

8. 
Con Air ($1.59 million) 

9. 
Money Talks ($1.53 million) 


10. Fire Down Below ($1.48 million) 
Source: VSDA online 

page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 2, 1998 
• BASEBALL 
Irish sluggers win three, rebound from 3-game losing streak 
By ALLISON KRILLA innings of work. The offense way to Chris McKeown, who Ust again led the Irish, boom­the sixth and added a solo Spons Writer also erased the memories of retired the side in the ninth. ing two home runs in the sec­homer in the seventh, respec­stranded runners and dimin­Although four Notre Dame ond, his second and third tively. 
The pieces are slowly but ished power, blasting nine hits, players drove in runs, sopho­clingers of the year. Junior right-hander Brad surely falling into place for the including four extra base shots. more Brant Ust highlighted a After Ust's first shot, Jeff Lidge (1-2) earned the victory, Notre Dame baseball team. This weekend proved another three-run fifth with double that Felker singled and Todd Frye allowing three runs on six hits 
Coming off a 7-5 win over test for the Irish, and they plated J.J. Brock and Jeff walked before first baseman over live innings, with two walks Central Michigan in passed with flying colors. Perconte. Dan Leatherman's RBI bloop and four Ks. McKeown worked Wednesday's home opener, the In the first game of the Errors plagued Evansville, as single. Frye scored on an error the sixth, and Dan Stavisky Irish had regained some of the Evansville, Ind., Diamond the team's four miscues led to by shortstop Daryl Hallada, and worked the next two innings, confidence that they lost in a Classic championship, junior three unearned Irish runs and junior Allen Greene followed allowing three runs on three three-game sweep by No. 7 righty Alex Shilliday stole the the first loss for sophomore with a two-run double down the hits. Righty Steve Szczepanski Miami. show, facing just 29 batters in righty Ryan Miller. left-field line. Jeff Wagner's dou­closed out the game with a flaw­
Freshman pitcher Danny eight innings with a career-best In the second game, Notre ble to right scored Greene, and less ninth. Tamayo spelled relief for a stall' 10 strikeouts, as the Irish beat Dame faced Purdue, a 10-4 win­Ust's second homer to deep left­The win put the Irish in yes­battered by the high-powered Evansville 6-1. ner over Valpraiso, and defeat­center closed out the scoring. terday's final game against Hurricane offense, shutting Shilliday (2-1) allowed one run ed the Boilermakers 12-6 The Irish also received scoring Indiana, a 3-2 winner over Ball down the Central Michigan on four hits, walking none and behind an eight-run second boosts from Wagner and Brock, State, with the honor of best in offense in his four and one-third hitting two batters before giving inning. who blasted a two-run shot in the state on the line 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED NOTICES I pleasecall219-271-0633 .___T_H_E_C_O_P_Y_S-HO_P______. I FOR RENT  ....-------------,I FOR SALE I Sick of being stuck on campus?  CLASS OF L Hey -did you know...  '98  3 days left ... Well, Burt, now you got me in trouble with Joe. Way to go. Now I have to convince him that  Thence .. because this is mechan­ics. Thus the great coordinate system in the sky ...  
LaFortune Student Center  ....------------'·  1988 Pontiac GrandAm LE  We're open early, late, and week­ he's the one I come to visit.  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE.  2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR  call Holly 289-2887 $1800obo  ends for your convenience I  Non me ne importa un fico secco.  
AND WEEKENDS!!!  CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW &  -THE COPY SHOP - News Bill is a tool.  
Men-Thur  7:30am· Midnight  FALL.272-6551  Mac PowerBook 190cs, 8/500.  LaFortune Student Center  If fun was water, she'd be a  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  $ 500. Call Leopold at 273 9275.  Phone 631-COPY  Thanks, Little Orphan Annie.  sponge.  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  APT.  New Buffalo, MI.  
Sun  Noon -Midnight  Prof or Grad Student who com­ ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  Joe,  Serenity now.  
CALL 631-COPY  mutes between Chicago & ND  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  babbling brooks in summer.  Forget about Burt. Really you know  
Non-smoker pref. No pets.  1-800­ with orthopedic mattress set and  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­ I come to visit you.  lo non ho problemi!  
Students and Instructors wanted.  265-1682.  deluxe frame. New, never used. still  place in winter. Love and joy for  
We are test running a new, two-day  in plastic. $225 219-862-2082  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ Okay, no really, I just come visit  Fran, I'm really missing you.  
seminar. the Win/Win Class, at no  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  ing professional couple would love  because I don't know enough  Maggie.  
charge to you, designed to increase creative thinking, and improve rela­ ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  PERSONAL  to provide a new born with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ science people. Makes me feel all intellectual to be the only Arts and  Kate, you can evacuate until  
tionships of all kinds. Call 243-8632  MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  Letters person in the room.  Thursday. By then I should be back  
for a reservation.  243-0658.  Students, Faculty and Staff,  to normal. By then I should be in  
Come out and support the Alliance  NEW! RUN BY FREAKS!  This year the curse of the bambino  Northbrook.  
WANTED  ALL SIZE HOMES  Today at 1:45 p.m. in front of Stapleton Lounge  www.nd.edu/-ddesigns You've got to see it to believe it!  will be broken!  You're so cut.  
CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Not your average stop on the net!!  Or borken.  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  232-2595  ND Video applications due March 4  The answer to 14-D in the cross­ 
Make a difference in the life of a  & 18. Stop by the store & pick one  RENT 1628 PORTAGE '98-'991  Spoonball! Catch the fever!  word is URDU.  
childl Summer therapy camp for  up. M-W 7-10 PM, Th-Sat 6PM­ 234-3831 /273-0482  
handicapped children. Located on  New 5 bdrm. 2 bath home with LR,  12AM. LaFun Basement.  How's your favorite team doing,  Darn it, Heather, I'm an engineer.  
shore of Lake Superior near Big  FR. outdoor deck, & 2 car garage  Reinthaler ... kick some con law!!!  John?  not a copy editor!  
Bay, MI. Positions available for  within walking distance of campus.  HEY SMC STUDENTS  
Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors  Has NC, gas, heat, stove, refrig,  Saint Mary's VISA program  philosophical discussions can be a  SHAW-­ Antonio hai i pantaloni sporchi. Tutti  
for Nature/Arts &  G/D, D/W, W & D. $1500 per mo.  (Volunteers In Support of  real pain  Have you seen BRAD PITT  amana i pantaloni sporchi  
Crafts/Recrealion/Canoeing/Kayakin  232-4527.  Admission) is calling out to all  wandering around lately?  d'Antonio. I pantaloni d'Anlonio  
g, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service,  women to share their love of SMC  kt, you held it and it exploded  -The leetle red-headed girl  sono i pantaloni piu sporchi di tutto  
and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic,  FREE SUMMER STORAGE  with prospective students. We need  if mondo.  
responsible, and love children.  '98-'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar.  SMC students to return to their high  but not the wonky one  If they cut from 20 to 16 pages one  
Salary, room & board, and experi­ WID. V-Ball Ct. 1628 Portage.  schools over Spring Break and talk  more time ...  Jim: temptation showed you what  
ence of a lifetime provided. Call or  234-3831 I 273-0482  about their college experience with  old college, wait for the mac inva­ you shouldn't do --Weight room girl.  
write for application and information.  students. We are also in need of  sion  I can't believe I just corrected my  
Bay Cliff Heallh Camp, 310 W.  Summer sublet: 2 BDRM, 2 bath­ campus tour guides. Interested?  ellipses in the classifieds.  No democracy has fallen over  
Washington, Suite 300, Marquette,  College Park; unfurnished-good  Call the SMC admission office  ahhh! i have to write more student  I've been working here too long.  $6000 per capita, except Argentina,  
Ml 49855, (906)228-5770.  condition: 243-8563  x4587!  government!  Waaaaaaaaay too long.  which fell at $6055.  


Hey Students! Don't Forget to Vote For Class Officers and Off..Campus Co..Presidents and Off..Campus Senator 
On Campus: In your dorm 11 :00 .. 1:00 and 5:00 .. 7:00 Off Campus: In Lafortune 3:00 .. 5:00 
(On campus students who will be living off-campus next year may vote in their dorm for off-camus positions as well as class officers. You do not need to go to Lafortune if you currently live on campus.) 
All Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors may vote for Class Officers and any student who will he living Off-Campus for the 98-99 school year or who currently lives Off­Campus may vote for Off-Campus positions. 
brought to you by: student governm~ 

Monday, March 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
our bench really outplayed over West Virginia, after
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
theirs." receiving a first-round bye,The Wildcats kept it close, winning 84-82. A major factor continued from page 16 however, throughout the sec­for the Irish in the gameond half, until with five minutes against Connecticut will be the 
we knew after watching them left in the contest, the Irish absence of Big East player of 
play St. John's that we couldn't solidified a 10-point lead at 50-the year, Nkyesha Sales, who 
give up any three-pointers to 40. The closest the Wildcats went down last week with a 
them. Our goal, even though it came from that point was with­season-ending injury. 
was a little unrealistic, was in eight, the margin by which "We're looking forward to the 
zero threes." th~y lost. game against UConn," McGraw 
By BRIAN KESSLER The Wildcats finished nine­The win allowed the Irish to said. "It should be a lot differ­Sports Wrirer for-26 on the day from three­redeem themsevles from a 16-ent with Sales out of the line­point land, but the absence of a point loss to the Wildcats at up."PISCATAWAY, N.J. solid inside game prevented Villanova on Jan. 28. Beth Morgan, last year's all­With brilliant shooting form them from competing in the "It was embarrassing fro us American who led the Irish to 
W. 8-ball 

behind the arc, the fifth-seed­paint. to lose by 20 at Villanova," the final four, was present for ed Notre Dame womert's bas· The key for the Irish was Peirick said. "We came out the game against Villanova had ketball team advanced to the their play of the bench, specifi­today and kept out intensity gave her analysis on the possi­second round of the Big East cally that of Danielle Green throughout the game, and were bility of an Irish upset. championship in Piscataway, who was second in scoring able to redeem the earlier "It's a great opportunity for 
N.J. behind Riley with 17 points. loss." them," Morgan said. "UConn,
The Irish defeated St. John's "Danielle Green came off the The Irish will face the without their senior leader, is on Saturday in a 94-57 rout bench and played an outstand­Huskies tonight at 6 p.m. in obviously down, and it's a greatthat featured a 13-for-20 ing game for us," head coach hopes of winning their first­chance for Notre Dame as longthree-point performance as a'' Muffet McGraw said of the ever Big East title. The Huskies as they control the boards and team, a new Big East tourna­junior guard. "Basically, I think pulled out a narrow victory take care of the ball." 
ment record. Sparked by an eight three; .•.•.. a formidable foe for the Huskies as it has scored pointer performance by guard ;.thOUi~.h;~"''''.,,., .. 
60 of the combined 150 points for the Irish in the Sheila McMillen, also a new tournament. Julie Henderson (against St. John's) Big East tournament record, ,,. continued from page 16 and Danielle Green (against Villanova) have come the Irish advanced past round m,,,,. mentt~dthl\t off the bench and been the second leading scorers one and set the stage for Even though it has been a one-or-the-other situa­in the game with 14 and 17 points, respectively. another showdown with top tion for the Irish in the tournament, Notre Dame No doubt exists that the Irish are playing solid seeded Connecticut, a team has shown that it can be potent from both outside basketball, and tonight will be the best opportuni­
they lost twice to during the and inside, and the unpredictability of it works in ty to beat Connecticut as they've had in the past regular season. its favor. three years. 
Notre Dame showed its The Irish have posted five players in double fig­But don't expect the Huskies to roll over and readiness to play with a 14-0 ures in the last two games and have set two Big play dead because they are missing their money run in the first five minutes of East tournament records -one team record for player in Sales. 
the game against the Red the most three-pointers as Shiela McMillen made In both of this season's contests, Connecticut Storm. eight against the Red Storm. had out-rebounded the Irish. In both games, the "The opening run set the The Irish inside game remains strong with Huskies have posted three players in addition to 
tone early," St. John's head freshman center Ruth Riley's game-high 18 points Sales in double figures. And in both contests, 
coach Chalene Thomas­against Villanova, and they have out-rebounded Notre Dame's shooting has hovered around 30 Swinson said. "We weren't their opponents 81 to 63. Even the bench creates percent. able to come back or slow 
them down. They were defi­nitely jelling and really played well together." 
Insight 
.d r2VJ s p-o-ou 

The Irish quickly built a 28­
Call 1-4540.

9 lead midway through the first half following a barrage 
+u-o::J::JV 


: . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
GEARING DOWN AFTER ANOTHER 
J : .....· : ..... . 
SuccESSFUL YEAR! . ·..
PR-GtJECT WARMTH 
We would like to express our greatest 
to all of those who participated 
We 

collected approximately 
1600 coats. 
never have been possible without 
efforts made by Notre Dame 
students, faculty, staff, and alums. 
efforts, we 

continue UPS 
UNITED PARCEL SERVICE 
St. Michael's Laundry 

successful year! 
Hammes Bookstore 
tc1ll 
~s~~. 
C £ N '!'I jll r 0 1'! 

-0 
NOTRE DAME
SOCIAL < " STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
CONCERNS SUPPORT SERVICES 
L___________________ --­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 2, 1998 
• HOCKEY 
Notre Dame puts Northern Michigan on ice, twice 
BY CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writer 
Head hoekey eoaeh Dave Poulin himself couldn't have written a better script for this weekend's hockey games a g a i n s t 
,.----::=---• Northnrn Miehigan. The Irish (17-15-4 overall, 12­13-4 CeliA) blasted the Wildcats 3-1 on Friday night and 5-2 on Saturday night, moving into a tie for sixth placn in the Central Collegiate !Iockey Association. 
"We won two different types of games this weekend," Poulin said. "Friday night's gamn was dose, and we had to survive a flurry at the end. Saturday night we jumped ahead 5-0 and had to play with a large lead. This sounds odd. but sometimes that is ditlieult to do." 
The Irish are currently tied with Lake Superior State in the CCIIA polls in sixth plaee, but the Lukers would earn the spot in the event of a tie because they have the better record in head-to-head eompetition (2-0-1 versus the Irish). If Notre Dame eould move into sole possession of sixth place, they would avoid a lirst-round playoff match-up with either Michigan or 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Michigan State. 
On Friday night, freshman sensation Mark Eaton gave the Irish a 1-0 lead midway through the second period. Eaton's superb stick-handling earned him his 1Oth goal of the season. He took a pass from forward classmate Dan Carlson in stride and decked Wildcat goalie Duane Hoey, sliding a baekhan­der behind him. 
"Mark Eaton is a very, very good player," Poulin said. 
Junior Brian Urick scored what would prove to be the game-winning goal in the third period on a clutch breakaway goal. He took a pass from sophomore eenter Ben Simon and beat Hoey with a low shot into the left eorner of the net. 
The Irish then had only to withstand a Wildcat flurry. Senior goaltender Matt Eisler stood tall in the crease, stopping 18 of 19 shots for the game. With 3:44 left to go, the Wildcats linally overeame Eisler and cut the lead to 2-1. But the Irish defense came through and shut down the Wildeats. Urick sealed the vietory with a full-ice empty net goal in the final seconds. 
"Matt was huge," Poulin said. "This was a tough game to play in. lie stopped 10 shots in the final period and was there when we needed him." 
On Saturday, Notre Dame administered a thorough beat­ing to the Wildcats. A trio of 


Season ends on a high note for Belles 
By KAT RADEMACHER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's Belles rang in one linal vietory Friday night against the Aurora Spartans 84­75, ending their basketball sea­son on a bright, yet emotional note. 
"It was the last time for every­thing," tri-captain Brenda Hoban said. "It was the last time we would warm-up. It was the last time we would yell, 'team.' We were ready to play." 
In the first half, the Belles made that evident. They eame out with the intensity and hunger that blew the Spartans away. 
Although the squad has had a disappointing season, they made sure the last game was a memorable one. Saint Mary's was not about to let anyone push it around on the home court this time: At the end of the first half. the Belles led 45-31. 
When the clock started ticking in the second half, the Belles continued playing hard. But gradually the Spartans dosed tlw gap until they were within fivfl points with 11:1 I left. 
The margin continued to nar­row. and with less than six min­utes remaining, the score was tied at 70. 
"We got a little nervous," Darcy Nikes said. "But we pulled together as a tnam and camn through in the end." 
Fitting true to the rest of the season and her reign at Saint Mary's, tri-eaptain Julie McGill finished with 27 points and 16 rebounds. Darcy Nikes, a third senior captain, racked up an astounding 23 points. Using the fast break and tough defense to their advantage, Saint Mary's went out with a bang and a misty eye or two from the seniors. 
"When the buzzer went on·. I took a deep breath and knew this was it," Nikes said. "It was a good feeling knowing that we won the last game, but it was a sad feeling knowing that it was the last game. I hope that I brought a spark to the team and inspired them to continue on with hard work, hustle, and will." 
juniors -defenseman Benoit Cotnoir and forwards Aniket Dhadphale and Urick -led the offensive attack. Dhadphale scored two goals, pushing his season total to 24 -the most by a Notre Dame player in eight years. 
"Aniket hung around the net tonight, and when he does that good things happen," Poulin said. "He's done that 24 times this season." 
The offensive-minded Cotnoir also recorded two goals and an assist, and Urick added three assists. Sophomore defense­man Sean Seyferth also added a slap-shot goal of his own. 

The Irish jumped out to a 3-0 lead, including two power play goals. 
"Getting those two goals was key for us," Poulin said. "When we got the second one, it really put the them in a tough posi­tion. And that's something that we haven't done this season is keep the pressure on a team by getting that second goal." 
Eisler turned in another out­standing performance. His 28 saves give him 2, 778 in his career, pushing him into sec­ond place on the all-time save list. He also topped the 6,000­minute plateau early in the third period. 
"We had a complete game tonight," Poulin said. "When you go up by five goals it can sometimes be hard to remained foeussed. But we hung in there and played tough. We maintained our intensity, and I was pleased with that." 
The Irish now tum their attention to the upcoming Michigan game, which will help determine who the Irish face in the first round of the playoffs. 
"We need one point next weekend," Poulin said. 

Tomorrow, Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentia I. 
Monday, March 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• TRACK &fiELD 
-
Track team ends season with Wilson Invitational 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN The Fighting Irish, on the meter run, junior Nadia Sporrs Wrirer other hand, used this meet as Schmiedt's 400-meter victory an opportunity to give all of its time of 55.33, a personal The Alex Wilson Invitational runners, besides those who ran record indoors; senior Danny held in Loftus Sports Center in a high number at the Big Payton's come-from-behind win this weekend closed out the East races a chance to com­in the 400-meter run, a first­indoor season for most mem­pete. place finish by freshman Terry bers of the Notre Dame track "When you consider that we Wray in the 500-meter run, Big and field team. had raced pretty hard the week East champion Mike Brown's Compared to last week's Big before, we had some very good title and close attempt at jump­East Invitational, this meet had performances," said head ing a school record 17'7" in the a low-key atmosphere sur­coach Joe Piane. "It's a great pole vault, freshman Carri rounding it. The Alex Wilson way for many of those kids to Lenz's victory in the 200-meter Invitational was scored only on terminate the indoor season on dash, and sophomore Chris an individual basis, and most of a positive note." Cochran's winning time of 6.89 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

the teams besides the host Among the top showings by in the 60-meter dash. 
The Alex Wilson Invitational, held this weekend in Loftus Sports
team who sent athletes to the the Irish were sophomore Tim "It felt really strong," said 
Center, marked the last competition for some Irish runners. meet sent only a few of their Kober's personal record by 3 Kober. "It went the way I'd like 
other two guys lead, and then 1000-meter winning time by
top runners. 1/2 seconds in winning the 800-the race to go. I just lP.t thP. 
finished strong the way I try to Erin Newman of 3:02.6, and a 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association The African & African-American Studies Program & 
~-----The Center for Social Concerns ·----II!!!~ ~ Proudly Present: r o R
c E N r E R 

MALCOM X (PART 2) 110 mn. s 0 c ' A L 
AFRICA CONCERNS 
UlltDrn•II'IIIPU"ff 
A FILM by SPIKE LEE WITH DENZEL WASHINGTON "SMASHING. AN EVENT MOVIE THAT LIVES UP TO THE EVENT." -MARK CLARK. USA TODAY. Filmmaker Spike Lee and Actor Denzel Washington (A New York Film Critics Award winner and Academy Award nominee as Best Actor) join other top talents to bring to the screen the life and times of Malcom X. " Here is a man who rose up from the dregs of society, spent time in jail, reeducated himself and, through spiritual enlightenment, rose to the top," says Lee. "This is an incredible story and I know it will inspire people." 
Followed by Panel Discussion on: MALCOM X: THE PROPHECY AND THE LEGACY. FEATURING: Prof. Martin Saiz, Government Dept., Moderator; Prof. Patrick Mason, Director, African & African-American Studies Program; Prof. Richard Pierce, History Dept; Iris Outlaw, Director, Office of the Multicultural Student Affairs; Verge Gillam alias Brother Sage, Director, Urban League; Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban Programming & Outreach Development; Chandra Johnson, Assistant Director, Special Projects, Campus Ministry; Kimberly Farrow, Junior, Arts & Letters, Vice-President, African Students; Association. 
Wednesday, March 4 •141 DebartoloHall•7:00PM • Free Admission 
ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Thesday, March 3, 1998 
6:00p.m. 
101 Law School 
If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B 0'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
L_ 
run." 

"It went a lot better than I thought," said Schmiedt. "I was kind of tired from all last week's races, so I just figured I would go out there hard, and if I died, I died. It was a personal best for me indoors, so I'm very happy with that." 
Wray had the opportunity to run a race without having to compete against teammate and all-American Danny Payton, and took full advantage in securing the win. "It was faster than I ran it last week," said Wray. "I felt good running, and I was just happy with it because it was a good way to end the indoor season." 
Other top finishes for Notre Dame were Bethany Wilson's meet and school record of 9'0" in the pole vault, Angela Patrizio's win in the triple jump, Janelle Reklau's top fin­ish in the long jump, second-place finishes by Kelle Saxen and Dan Frigo in the high jump, Berit Junker's win by a hair in the 800-meter run, freshman Travis Davey's victo­ry in the 200-meter dash, a men's 4 x 400-meter relay time of 3:20.87 in taking first place. 
Junker, a senior, crossed the finish line just ahead of Magdalena Paszta of Lewis University, with a margin of victory of just one-hundredth of a second. 
"I wanted to go out in a :63 at the 400 split, and to be able to run a good time in the end," Junker said. "I was just trying to keep the girl behind me, and I gave it all I had, which ended up being enough." 
"Specifically, I think Nadia Schmiedt ran her best 400 since she's been here," said sprinters and hurdlers coach John Millar. "Terry Wray ran very well, and Chris Cochran also." 
A handful of runners will compete in either the Silverston Invitational at Ann Arbor, Mich., next weekend, or a meet at the RCA Dome in Indianapolis, in a final attempt to qualify or sharpen up for the NCAA Indoor Championships March 13-14. For most Irish athletes, however, this was the final meet of the indoor season. 

M. B-ball 
continued from page 16 
Despite Garrity's usual strong effort, point guards Jimmy Dillon and Ingelsby were unable to feed the all-American candidate the ball on a consis­tent basis. Strong defensive pressure haunted the Irish guards all day long, limiting them to just four assists between the two of them. 
Center Phil Hickey, who may be finally developing some con­sistency, was the only member of MacLeod's squad to give Garrity any support, scoring 12 points and grabbing eight rebounds. Ingelsby and Dillon combined for just two points, while the entire Irish bench was limited to just 13 points. 
"When we don't give Pat enough support, we are going to have trouble winning," MacLeod said. "It's too much to ask anyone to try to do it by himself. We need to have two or three other guys step up and take some of the load off him." 

The Irish made a mediocre team look like a world-beater, allowing the Friars to jump out to a 26-13 lead while never looking back. Entering the game shooting a dismal 42 per­cent from the field -second worst in the conference ­Providence connected on 29-of­56 attempts for an uncharac­teristic 52 percent shooting. 
"What could we do different? I have no idea," said MacLeod. "You're asking me right now when we just got our tails cracked. We'll have to come up with something, that's for sure." 
And with the rematch sched­uled for Wednesday at 11 a.m., they had better do it quick. 




-
• MEN's LAcRossE 
Ulrich leads Irish to victory 
early two-goal lead in less than 
two minutes into the first quar­
ter. Senior captain Chris 
Killoren opened the scoring 
with his first of three goals. lie 
also added two assists on the 
day. 

The Irish were quiek to 
respond, searing seven out of 
the next eight goals. Sparked 
by Owen's baek to back goals, 
Notre Dame never looked back. 
"I wasn't tremendously 
pleased with our performance. 
I was, however, pleased with 
our competitiveness and our 
ability to score some goals." 
Corrigan said. "We can do a 
mueh better job defensively. 
Giving up nine goals in a game 
like this is more than we should 
have given up." 
Although the Notre Dame 
defense allowed many goals, it 
did tighten when it had to. In 
the net. senior captain Alex 
Cade made 13 of his 17 saves in 
the second half, while allowing 
only four goals in the last 30 
minutes. 

It was a very big win for the 
Irish. They are 6-3 in horne 
openers under Corrigan, and it 
is always good to get the season 
of on the right foot. 
"The first game of the season, 
you want to win, and you want 
to get a benchmark of where 
you arc," Corrigan said. "We 
know where we are and where 
we want to be. You always take 
Northwestern yesterday gave the squad the 9th victory, and won it for them, 9-4. 
The biggest confidence builder for the team carne at the hands of Wayne State's Marta Sciubisc, who is consid­ered one of the league's elite fencers and is a contender for the national title in epee. Krol, who lost to Sciubisc at the Notre Dame meet in early February, defeated her by a seore of 5-1. 
"That is a real confidence builder. To have all of us beat one of the top contenders for the national title is great," Krol said. "We know that our team, all three of us, are going to fence well next week. We are positive that although OTIP of US will not go, that we will qualify two in women's epee [for 
Monday-Thursday: 7:30am to Midnight 
The Copy Shop • LaFortune Student Center
Friday: 7:30am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight Notre Dame, IN 46556 • 631·2679 
away something positive when you win, but we don't want to be satisfied with how we per­formed." 
The level of play must contin­ue to improve for the Irish. Penn State was the first of many ranked opponents for the Irish. In total, nine of their 12 opponents are ranked in Face­Off Lacrosse Magazine's pre­season top 30. Next up for the Irish is a Spring Break trip to Colorado, where they will faee the Air Force Academy and Denver University. 

The club teaches southern Shaolin internal martial arts which include Tang-style Tai Chi Chuon and "Five families, five animals" internal Kung Fu,,Classes are non-competi· tive, and all are welcome to attend regardless of prior 
See tomorrow's Observer for coverage of men's tennis. 

Monday, March 2, 1998 
cteodoro@nd.edu. 

Signups for Bookstore Basketball teams will begin today. The signup sheets are in LaFortune from 11 a.m. to 
2:30 p.m., and from 7 to 9:30 
p.m. The price for entering is $10 per team. 
Monday, March 2, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN' 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM SCOTT ADAMSDILBERT 

~-------------.~~============~
8  IT'5  EI\5Y.  JUST SKIP  ~  l  I\LWAY5  KNOW  
ON TI1E  ~  THE ''!NTERtACE DE<jiGN''  W14ERE TO GO fOR  
MENT  THP>.T YOU  ~  PHI\5E  AND MAKE  NO-BRAINER  
5P>.l0 15 A "NO e,RAINER."  ~ ...§  EVERYTHING BE.lGE. YOU CAN'T GO WRONG  DECISIONS .  
"'  WHI-\  BEIGE..  
CROSSWORD ACROSS 1 The ex-Mrs. Bono sMoneyowed  30 Arthurian sorcerer 32 Harvest goddess 35 Pass. as laws  &1 Without-in the world 64 Prefix with China &5 Nat King or  

9 Pharmacy items 38 Verdi heroine 
14Composer 66 Natal!~ys (tots•'
39 John Glenn's Schifrin game)Mercury15 Anatomical 

&7--do-well
spacecraft

passage 68 Popular fashion 43Type16 Like "The magazineassortmentTwilight Zone" 69 Israeli port 44 Card catalogue episodes 70 Microbeentry after 17 Actress Lena 71 Do one of the "Author"
18This-of 
three R's 45 Before, in verse tears (life) 46 Overage19 Do watercolors 49 Boat propellers 
20 Secondhand DOWN store 
51 Loaf with seeds 1 Drain problem 23 Showed respect 52--tothe 2Angels'for the national throne (prince, e.g.) headgearanthem 3 Ness of "The 24 Sister of Osiris 55 Laid, as a Untouchables"
bathroom floor 28 Cinematogra­58 Member of the 4 Musical movements 
2sMr. 0. 
pher Nykvist police 
5 Stockholder's income & Catchall abbr. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
7 Attorney Melvin 8 Lock of hair 31 "Norma-" 50 Deli machine 59 German border 9 Remove from river
32 Bidder's 53 Cake office amount decoration 60 Marsh stalk 
33 Stockholder's 54 "Walk Away &1 Cigarette waste vote _ .. (1966 hit) 
&2 K.G.B.'s cold 34 Subsequently 56 French school war foe 36 Letter before psi 57 Singer Reese 63 "-the only 
37 Maverick one?"
58 Univ. teacher 

Yugoslav leader 
40 High season. on _____________ 
the Riviera Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 41 Railroad station are available by touch-tone phone: 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
ARIES -You'll be devoting much time to routine matters. Stock up on general household goods, attend to minor repairs, and complete old assignments. The day unfolds on schedule. 
TAURUS -Time to improve your income and status. Also conclude trav­el plans. Your efforts to promote yourself will prove successful. 
GEMINI Routine grind of a day. You con­centrate well since there are no distractions to interfere with your goals today. 
CANCER-You'll have the energy to party all night if you want. Most likely, you'll simply enjoy visiting friends or speak­ing your mind at a group meeting. 
LEO -An inner restric­tion is lifted. You'll have a new sense of freedom, which may cause you to embark in a fresh direc­tion. You'll be contemplat­ing changes in life-style. 
VIRGO -The day focuses your attention on group activities and gath­erings with pals. Now is a good time to make plans to visit someone you haven't seen in a while. 
LIBRA -You'll feel inspired at your job today by your 120% original thinking. Later, there's a happy emphasis on part­nerships. Tonight, howev­er, may bring conflict. 
SCORPIO -Spend some time with financial record­keeping today. Members of the family will feel especially close. Tonight entertain company at home. 
SAGITTARIUS -Init­iative brings you gains in career today, but you'll need tact in your dealings with sensitive types. Charm works wonders tonight. 
CAPRICORN -This is a day to be careful with your checkbook and credit cards. Keep a close eye on expenditures, since some­

... 
one is inclined to extrava­gant spending now. 
AQUARIUS -Urgent business matters just can't wait so deal with them. However, family members are likely to make demands on your time. 
PISCES -Your powers of concentration are excellent now. You'll let nothing distract you from achieving your ambitions. It's a day of progress and productivity. 


area 42 Printing flourish 47 Singer Easton 480ceanThomas 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute) . Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last  staff.  
50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.  
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester Name ____________________________________________ _ Address _______________________________________ City---------------State ____Zip____________ 

SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, March 2, 1998 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish fly high at Big East Tournament 
Win over Villanova advances team to semi­final round of tourney 
By BETSY BAKER Associate Spom Editor 

PISCATAWAY, NJ. 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team will have another shot to defeat Connecticut as it advanced to the semifinals of the Big East cham­pionship with a 56-48 win over Villanova on Sunday. 
The game against the Wildcats was in direct contrast to the contest with St. John's the previ­ous day in which the Irish score 54 of its 94 points in the backcourt. Against Villanova, Notre Dame relied on its inside game, putting the ball into the hands of 6-foot-5 center Ruth Riley, who had a game-high 18 points. 
Hiley scored the first eight points for the Irish, as the game got off to a slow start with only 16 total points scored in the first eight minutes. 
While the Irish set a Big East tournament record for three-pointers with 13 the day before, it was the Wildcats who reigned form behind the are as 15 of their 17 first-half points came from three-pointers. 
The Irish entered the locker room with a 20-17 lead, 11-for-22 in shooting. 
The Wildcats were able to silence Sheila McMillen. who set an individual tournament record for most three-pointers with eight against St. John's, by holding her to one three-pointer and five points overall. 
They also held McMillen's counterpart Mollie Peirick, who chipped in three of her own from behind the arc against the Hed Storm, to identical numbers -one three-pointer and five total points. 
"I knew if we were going to compete, we'd have to hit between nine and 14 three-pointers," Villanova head coach Harry Perretta said. "And 
see W. B-BALL I page II 

The Observer/Joe Stark 
Freshman Ruth Riley, recently named to the Big East all-rookie team, scored a game-high 18 points against the Wildcats on Monday. 
By MIKE DAY Sports Editor Emeritus 

The Irish may have discov­ered what Hell looks like on Saturday afternoon. It bears a strong resemblance to the Pro vi d e n c c .------,=c----. Civic Center in Prov­idence, Hhode Island. 
N o t r e Damn, in des­perate need of a victory in L__JL..lL~...LJ.~~ its regular season finale, couldn't have made things morn difl1cult on itself, losing 77-62 in a game with huge implications. 
Not only did the Irish want a victory to head into this week's Big East tournament on a high note. but they also needed a win to all but secure a bid in the NIT. Surtiee it to say, they did not get what they were looking for on Saturday. 
"We would like to have had more success here at the end," said Irish head coach John MacLeod after watching his team lose for the sixth time in eight games. ''I'd like to see us get straightened out at the free throw line. I'd like to see us start controlling ourselves when the defense pressure hits." 
With a 13-13 overall record, Notre Dame must win in Wednesday's opening round of the Big East tournament to clinch a .500 record -a requirement to receive an NIT bid. To make things worse, the Irish will have to do it against the same Friars team that just gave them a 15-point spanking. 
"We certainly have our work cut out for us," said point guard Martin lngelsby. "There isn't any room for error. We've got to makn it happen for us." 
On Saturday, Providence for­ward .Jamel Thomas made sure 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Rematch with UConn offers Notre Dame a chance at redemption 
Betsy Baker Associate Spom Editor 
Always a bridesmaid, never a bride. 

That old cliche sums up the relationship of the Notre Dame women's basketball team's relation­ship with Connecticut. 
Notre Dame has gone 0-7 against the Huskies since entering the Big East three years ago, and no matter how good the Irish arc, UConn always seems to steal the show. The Irish have had spurts of brilliance -or at least a presence -against the Huskies, such as losing by seven in February of 1996 or by nine last MarciL They have also had games they would rather go unremembered -los­ing twice by 23 points, once by 17, and this year's contest by 19 and 12. 
After trampling St. John's in the first round 94­57 in the Big East championship and defeating Villanova on Sunday 56-48, however, it looks as though it might be Notre Dame's chance to walk down the aisle. 
The stage is set for the Irish to accomplish what it has been missing in the last three years. AftPr going to the final four last year, one would think the only thing left to accomplish is winning a national championship. 
But not for the Irish. There is one thing missing in the last thme years -a win over Connecticut. 
With Connecticut's absence of the Big East Player of the Year Nykesha Sales, and the fatigue of its hard-fought 84-82 win over West Virginia on Sunday, it very well could be Notre Dame's game to lose. 
For one, the Irish have shown over the last two games their potential for a balancnd scoring ell"ort. 
see INSIGHT/ page II 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Notre Dame falls to Providence 
• fENCING 
Fencers duel to strong victory 
it didn't happen. If the Providence Civic Center was Hell, then Thomas was the devil. The 6-foot-6 junior exploded for a career-high 32 points and added 10 rebounds and four assists to practically single-handedly sink the Irish. 
"He brought his 'A' game tonight," said Irish forward Derek Manner. "He was outra­geous. it was hard to stop him because his elevation on his shot was so good." 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame for­ward Pat Garrity was giving it everything he had to try to keep pace, scoring 26 points on 9-of­18 shooting to go along with 1 0 rebounds. 
"I think he's the player of the year," said Providence coach Pete Gillen. "You can argue Richard Hamilton's great. Felipe [Lopez of St. John's] had a great year. But I voted for Garrity, and I'd vote for him after this game." 
seeM. B-BALL I page 13 
By ANTHONY BlANCO 
Spores Writer 

The Notre Dame fencing team finished its team compe• tition this past weekend just as it began it, by winning. 
The strong finish gives the Irish their seventh straight win in the Midwestern Team Championships; with first­place finishes in men's foil, epee, sabre and women's epee. The women's foil squad fmished second. 
More importantly, the victo­ries give the Irish the confi· dence they need to qualify two fencers in each competi­tion for the NCAA Championships, tho maximum allowed in next week's Midwest Regional Qualifier. 
''We have a great chance to qualify ten fencers next week­end," said sophomore All­American Magda Krol, who went undefeated on the week­end with 20 wins. 
More important than giving the team another win on the team-meet season, the tour­nament, and the Irish domi­nance, places them in the best possible scenario to qualify the ten. 
"We're confident," said senior epeeist Carl .Jackson. "But we have to take it one step at a time. The next hur­dle for us is this upcoming weekend, then we can focus on the NCMs." 
The for the men's epee squad easily clem·ed the hur­dles they faced this weekend. They gained the No. 1 seed 
see FENCING I page 14 

at Big East tournament, vs. Michigan State, 
@. 

,! Q)
M Wednesday, II a.m. 
Wednesday, 3:30p.m. 
• Bengal Bouts wrap-up 

at Big East T ournamenr, 
at Air Force Academy, ~ see pullout
~ Today, 6 p.m. 
~ 
March 7, 1 p.m. ...... 
• Irish icers win 2

• ..e riJ
Indoor Track 
! 
vs. Wisconsin, 
see page 12
at USA Indoor Championship, 
Tomorrow, 2 p.m. 
Friday, All Day 


