

Tuesday, January 20, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 73 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students gather to celebrate King's birthday 
ND community shares stories during 30th 
. . 


anntversary servtce 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY News Writer 
Everybody has a story. 
Members of the Notre Dame community gath­ered together last night in the Chapel of the Holy Cross to share their stories and pay tribute to the spirit and ancestry of the late Martin Luther King, Jr. 
The majority of the prayer service, held in honor of the national celebration of King's birth­day, focused on the struggle to realize the vision of the civil rights leader. Chandra Johnson, assistant director of Campus Ministry, pointed out to the crowd that the struggle at Notre Dame to participate in King's dream is still a large one. 
"It is the responsibility of this committee to bring forth the message of Martin Luther King in an applicable way to our community," Johnson told those at the service. "However, we were conscious that in our own community we were struggling. We were struggling to respect each otlwr." 
.Johnson proposed that the way to end the struggle occuring on campus is by listening again to King's original messages. The lessons within King's preaching, Johnson said, revealed the way to harmony between all people. 
A video presentation entitled ·~stories: A Tribute to Martin Luther King" detailed the lives and history of several Notre Dame students. The video, prepared by Steve Hossigno of the Fatima Hetreat Center, included participants answers to four questions intended to question the basics of one's understanding of the dif­ference between being· a Christian and an American. The four statements questioned creation stories, the idea of being an American, the gifts of those at Notre Dame and future contribution to the world. 
The students also relayed the significance of King's message and life in their stories. 
Johnson and the other members of the Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Planning Committee expressed the hope of the University administrators that the ideas of justiee and Christian prayer inherent in King's mes-

The Shaker 

T
he grotto was crowded yesterday with visitors of all ages. The shrine was a favorite spot for those wishing to remember Martin Luther King, Jr., on the 30th anniversary of his death. 

Candles, readings help Saint Mary's remember civil rights leader 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY News Writer 
In observance of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday; members of the Saint Mary's College community as well as students, faculty and staff from the W.E.B. Dubois Family Learning Center came together at an interfaith prayer service in Stapleton Lounge dedicated to remem­bering King, Jr., through song, prayers, and readings. 
As those who gathered to celebrate entered the lounge, they were each given a candle which was later lit during a 
'-----~"------~ song as the candle light was King, Jr. passed from leaders of the service to the other members of the assembly. 
Following the lighting of the candles, students from the W.E.B. Dubois Family Learning Center participated in the reading, "The Cold Within" which detailed the necessity of interaction between people of different races, religion, and social classes. Additionally, Saint Mary's stu­dents took part in the reading of a piece by Martin Luther King, Jr. enti-
....-I~P!IIW~._, tied, "Antidotes to Fear" from Strength to Love. 
The service then paused for a moment of silent re flee tion true?" during which those gathered p.lO~ll .. were asked to reflect on obsta­
cles that inhibit them from '-----'-~----' reaching out to other people and how they could overcome these obstacles. Following the silent reflection, participants were then asked to discuss and reflect their ideas and thoughts with someone sitting near them in an effort to promote dialogue regarding issues of race, the significance of the day and other issues also. 
see SERVICE/ page 4 

sage not be lost to the generations that follow. 
"It is our hope and prayer that those who come after us will learn more about a man who changed the very course of human history," Johnson said. 
Following in the idea of starting at the beginning, gatherers were invited to listen to a reading of Genesis and then share their thoughts on injustice and inspira­tion with the rest of the group. Members of the crowd were also asked to answer the same four questions that were posed of the students in "Stories." 
"What we will witness is that there is a common thread that runs through all our lives that will allow us to determine who God is," Johnson said. 
see CHAPEL/ page 4 

• CAMPUS l!FE COUNCIL 

New council evaluates goals 
By MATIHEW LOUGHRAN  Patriek Coyle, Dillon Hall sena­ Student Affairs] Patricia O'Hara  
A<>sociatr Nt'\VS Editor  tor, who volunteered to be a  and the Board of Trustees if this  
member  of  the  committee,  is what we are here for. Are we  
The Campus Life Council d!~dd­ warned that, "This is a pregnant  just for show or do we have more  
ed last night to set up a special  issue that we are getting into. We  of a purpose? It is worth looking  
committee that will examine tht~  know that there are a lot of peo­ into."  
bylaws nnd goals of the council  ple out there, rectors and others,  Keough Hall senator A.J. Boyd  
as set forth by the University  that have past CLC experience  asked that the committee also  
Board ofTrustees.  and have seen what goes on from  look into the possibility of updat­ 
The committee, which will  year to yfmr."  ing the Campus Life Council'  
rm~et  during the two-week inter­ "We arc the official line of com­ bylaws. "We talked about doing  
vals between CLC meetings, can­ munication between the campus  this earlier in the year," he said.  
not actually change the bylaws or  community and the administra­ "But it would probably be easier  
purpos1~ of the council. ThosP can  tion," Szabo said. "I think that we  
only be changed by the Board of Trustees, by whose mandate the  have to ask [vice president for  see CLC/ page 6  
council was established in the  
first place. But the members of  
the special committee will be  
charged with trying to find ways  
to improve the CLC that can  be  
recomnwnded to the board.  
"The Student Senate, the Hall  
President-,' Council and all other  
aspect of campus government  
have been rPdefined in the past  
year," argued Morrisey Hall sen­ 
ator Matt Szabo, the chair of the  
community life committee which  
proposed the evaluation. "The  
CLC has remained unchanged.  
We are still operating under a  
mission statement and bylaws  The Observer/Anthony Shaker  
that have not changed since the  Members of Campus Life Council discussed issues such as diver­ 
late 1970s."  sity and campus alcohol abuse at last night's meeting.  

Journalism program 
gets new sponsors 
ByTIM LOGAN News Writer 
In coming years, a new group will be taking over sponsorhip of the Hed Smith Lectureship in Journalism. 
John and Susan McMeel and Universal Press Syndicate will be funding the program, which brings prominent jour­nalists to speak at Notre Dame. 
John McMeel is president of Universal Press Syndicate, the nation's leading syndicate of columns and cartoons to American newspapers. William Buckley and Hichard Heeves are among the colum­nists who are syndicated by the company, which also dis­tributes such cartoons as Doonesbury and The Far Side. 
The Red Smith lectureship had been sponsored by the Coca-Cola Company since its inception in 1983. Coca-Cola "ended its sponsorship because its public relations strategy changed," according to Hobert Schmuhl, head of the department of American Studies. This departure left 
the lecture series without 
funding. 
"The McMeel's and Universal Press Syndicate have been generous in their support of Notre Dame over the years and felt [the Hed Smith program] was an appro­priate activity they wanted t() support," Schmuhl said.. 
The program is named after Pulitzer Prize winning sports­writer Hed Smith, a 1927 graduate of Notre Dame. 
"Susan and I, along with others at Universal Press Syndicate, are delighted to help foster good writing and recognize high journalistic standards by supporting this project," McMeel said. 
A numbrr of notable jour­nalists have visited Notre Dame through the lectureship including James Reston, Georgie Anne Geyer and Charles Kuralt. After being delivered at Notre Dame, the lecture is printed and distrib­uted nationwide to thousands of news people and publica­tions. Kuralt's 1986 address 
see SPONSOR/ page 6 

page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 

Them? 
Abortion is one of the Colleen Gaughenmost explosivh, sensi­
A~sistant Viewpoint Editor 
tive. and controversial watershed issues to ever face the United States. Emotions rage during debate. The nature of life is in bitter eonnict with tlw nature of choice. People basn their votes for civic leaders solely on a candidate's position. And 1SO Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are trawling 14 hours to Washington, D.C. tonight to join hundreds of thousands in the 2Sth annual March For Life. 
1998 is a particular milestone for this event as it is the 25th anniversary of Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court ease legalizing tho clinical termination of human life. Because such prece­dents have been set over the past quarter of a century, it would be political suicide to makn abortion c.ompletdy illegal. It's just not going to happen. But that's not why I'm going. 
For me. this trip is a journey of prayer to show America that there are hundreds of thou­sands of people literally standing up for the silent unborn. They arc denied their choice and right to live, but they will not be ignored. 
A common misconception is that pro-lifers are anti-choiee. Not true. They indeed believe in the right to choose. but with every serious dedsion comes equally serious consequences. They pray that women will choose life not only for the obvious sake of the baby, but to avoid the agonizing aftermath of abortion. Our God is loving and inspires guidelines not to punish or deny, but to protect. 
Another common misconception is that pro­choicer's condone abortion. Not true (~ither. They simply believe that choke is an inalien­able right and that it's none of the govern­ment's business what they do and do not do in their personal lives. 
It is impossible to legislate morality. Women today find themselves in situations we eannot even begin to imagine here in our self­absorbed bubbh~. For most of us, rape, drugs, welf'arc, prostitution, incest, and pov(~rty arc only words we usc in discussion. It's real, it's happf\ning out there. and it's not fair to judge someone on your own personal beliefs without first truly listening to theirs. 
So I ask you, the Notre Dame community, to join us in spirit as W(~ travel this week, not to argue, but to pray for the healing and preven­tion of these dire situations and the wisdom and grace for all to make the right dedsions. 
It's scary. Kids in junior high, and even grade school, are beginning to experiment sex­ually. Not everyone is aiTorded the protective walls of a strict parochial school. and that kind of rigid, because-I said-so oppression without explanation can even perpetuate the problem in some cases. The fact of the maW~r is that sex and its consequential implications arc a grave part of society we cannot ignore. 
It's too late to reverse Hoc vs. Wade. What we need to do now is educate ourselves about every aspect of sex, pregnancy, prevention, alternatives to abortion, and, most importantly, why we believe the way we do about these issues. 
There is no denying that an embryo is bio­logical human lifo. All the necessary ingredi­ents arc present for the recipe of a child. The raging debate is about when that tiny embryo becomes a human person. The Catholic Church says conception, the American courts say birth. What you choose is up to you, and you alone. 
Tbey are crying. Can you hear them? 

The views expressed in lhe Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TODAY'S STAFF 
News Graphics Sarah Hiltz Melissa Weber Colleen McCarthy Production Anne Hosinski 
Tara Grieshop Sports Lab Tech Kevin Robinson 
Shannon Dunne Viewpoint Colleen Gaughen Accent Andrea Jordan 

The Observer (USPS 'i?? 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and \"acation ~riods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, January 20, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 

\ .( '. Compiled from U-Wrre reports 
--------------------------------------------------~~~~~~~~ 
Investigation reveals more details about wrestler's death 
hour latc~r. ANN AHBOH. Mieh. 
Heese's rather said lw is still consid­
Ninety minutes bdor1~ his d1~ath. ering suing tlw Univ1~rsity. although .leiTtm~y Hnesf\ tlw Michigan wmstlm· Was h t ~~ n a w Coun ty pr o s n e u to r s who died Dec. 9 whil(~ trying to shed already have clnarnd McFarland of' extra pounds the day bnforn a big wrongdoing in H1~esp's death. . match, asked his coach to d1day a "Tiwy didn't do all tlwy could or weigh-in until tho next moming. should have to prnvt~n t .Infrs dc~ath,"
p.m. on Dec. 9. He(~Se was still 1. 7 

"JeiT had asknd me if hn could delay Ed H(~nsn said. lknsn, a junior, also
pounds from his desired weight. tlw 

his wdgh-in to tho following morning. told his girlfriend that hn hadn't naten
statt~rnent to police said. Honse tlwn Sine(~ !another wrestlnrl had a)r(~ady tlw day bnfon~ the workout. tlw n~pi11·t
asked McFarland if lw could dday tlw 

<~ertified at that weight dass. Jon· knew said.
weigh-in until tlw next morning. but 

the team was coven~d at I S3 In tlw wake ol" Hc-c~S(~·s death, tlw
instead he contimwd to work out for 

lpoun_ds]." assistant coach .Joe Athlc~tic Departnwnt form(~d a task
about 90 minut(~S while tlw n~sl of' his McFarland said in a Ike. 12 statement force to look into c~hanges in tlw
team loll for dinner. 

to police, which was obtairwd by The wrestling program. Thn task f'on~c~ first
The statement to police indkates 

Detroit News yostNday under a an T1 OU IH~Pd S!'V(~ 11 r('CO Ill Ill C~ n dI'CI
that Hnos1~ was wearing a "s.auna suit." 

Freedom of Information Act request. changes to tlw program in Dncc-mbPr.
cotton sweat pants and a bltw stocking

"I n~minded .I1~1T that lw would have including banning tlw usC' of rubbnr
cap while he rode a stationary bikt~ in 

to be eertifi(~d this tWI'ning as sdwd­suits.
a 92-dngrnl~ room. II(~ also sat in a uled or would not be able to compete." Yesterday, the task f'or-cn nwt again
sauna twice for two-minute periods. At 

H1~ese, a Kinesiology junior, was try­and rc~commc>ndc~d that tlwn~ bl' a n•­
about S p.m.. Hense eolla.psed while 

ing to shed 17 pounds to eompde in evaluation of' existing weight c~lassns to
making his way toward a seale. lin tlw 150-pound weight class. At (>::~o make tho sport saf'nr.
was pronounced dead lf~ss than an 

• DEPAUW UNIVERSITY 
Sorority members win lighter sanction 
GHEENCASTLE. Ind. 

Three Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority members who the University found guilty of branding pledges with dgarettns face a semester-long suspension and other sanctions, artt~r they won an appeal last month. Their original punishment was expulsion. The three women. sophomores Amanda 111~ldt, Sarah McKinney and Jennifer Millor, appealed their expulsion on the grounds that the punishment was too harsh. Within the wenk, a three-member appeals board met and knocked their sentence down to a semester-long suspension and various community snrvice and probation requirements. Eight other Kappa members who participat­ed in a pre-initiation hazing ritual are on social probation, and two have received formal warnings. According to Theresa Bryant, vice president of public afTairs, an admin­istrative board heard the sorority's case and punish(~d Kappa with social probation until June 2000. Members of Kappa's national sorority will have to live in tlw house until the probation ends. 
• JAMES MADISON UN!Vf.RSITY 
Citizen files second faculty sighting 
IIAHHISONBUHG, Va. 

Police arc investigating two reported sightings of former .Jamf~S Madison faculty member Karen Bartley, missing since Dec. 15. The first sighting was in Woodstock, ncar Shenandoah Mnmorial Hospital, at about 1:30 p.m. last Thursday, according to Sergeant Jerry Hoy of Harrisonburg Polio~ Department. The second sighting occurred about an hour later ncar tho Martinsburg, West Virginia exit about 20 miles north of Winchester along Interstate 81. Both reports of tho sightings placed Bartley alone and on foot. "rThe sightings were on people that looknd liked [Bartley]." Hoy said. "Some people thought they saw her but wore not sure one way or another." Hoy said tho descriptions given by the two people who reported the sightings are similar. Posters circulated in the community describe Bartley. 34. as S'6" tall and 128 lbs. When last soon, she was wearing blue jeans, brown boots and a blue suede jacket. 
• HARVARD UNIVE.HSITY 
Professor retains position in litigation 
CAMBHID<;I\, Mass. 
A Federal judge this week n~f'usnd a pdition from tlw Microsoft Corporation that would havn r(~movl'd Professor of Law L. Lawr<~nce Lessig from tlw position of' spndal mastN in anti-trust litigation against tlw soft­warn (~ompany. Tlw Hndmond, Wasl1.. company had argued that tho appointnwnt of a spocial mast!'r was unnecessary and also that tlw I!arvard professor was an inappropriate rhok1~. Mkrosoft is rurn~ntly considnring whntlwr to appeal tlw docision, according to company s p o k P s p e r s o n .I im C u II a n i n . T lw .I u d g e , T h o m as Jackson, annourw1~d his ruling Wt~dnnsday at. tlw end of' a two-day hearing related to otlwr mattt~rs in tlw antitrust case, whkh allegps that Minosort illt•gally tried to gain markC't shan~ in tlw lntnnwt browsc~r wars. As special master. Le-ssig is responsibln for proposing "findings of fad and conclusions of' law for considera­tion by tlw court." lin is to rc~port his fjndings by May 31. 
• NORTHVVFSTERN UNIVF.:RSHY Trustees propose dental school closing 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
A Northwestern University Board or Trust(~Ps subcom­mittee plans to nwet with Dental School studnnts-and administrators to c~valuatc~ tlw proposPd dosing of' tlw school in three years. Tlw subcommittee. chairnd by Howard Triontms, will n~view University Pn~sidPnt llnnry Bi1~nen's recommendation to dosc~ the D1~ntal School. It will present its findings to tlw full board Fob. 4. "Wo'n~ getting input from tlw intorestnd eonstitlHHlts," Trinrwns said. "Wn'v<~ got an op(~n mind, if not a blank mind." Subeommith~(~ members nwt with faculty and alumni of the Dnntal School last week. Tlwy will nwnt with student n~presentatives Jan. 27. After nwl'ting with studnnt and faculty representatives, tlw eight-memb(~r subcommittee will make its reeommPndation to tlw f'ull board. Trif~1wns said. The board can tlwn approve or n~j1~d tlw rnrornmnn­datinn. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl \}\fEATHER 
5 Day South Rend Forecast AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, Jan.20. 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
H L 

Tuesday ~ ·32 20 Wednesday U 34 24 Thursday U 33 22 Friday ~ 30 22 


,, u 

Sat~rday_ ,"~:J:=·.::i· 32 21 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FlURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY Pf CLOUDY CLOUDY
5... 5'....~r··--........v···-· ...,s) · · 

Aspen 25 ·2 Honolulu 80 66 Milwaukee 26 18 Bangor 28 20 Hutchinson 44 24 New York 40 30
Q,Q,~4Q8 {) ~ c::1 
Charlo11e 44 27 Las Vegas 54 34 Philadelphia 40 28 
V1a Associaled Press Graph~esNet 
Fargo 18 7 Memphis 44 33 Wash. D.C. 42 30 







Distinguished alum dies at 86 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame alumnus Edmund Stephan, 86, senior counsel to the Chicago law firm of Mayer, Brown, & Platt and chairperson emeritus of Notre Dame's Board of Trustees, died last Friday in Chicago. 
Stephan was the legal archi­tect of thf~ 1967 transfenmce of governance of the University from sole control of its found­ing religious community, the Congregation of Holy Cross, to 

1st Meeting of the Semester 
All Students & Faculty Welcome 
Tuesday January 20th 

@8:00PM 

2nd Floor LaFortune Elevator lounge 
a two-tiered governing struc­ture consisting of the Fellows of the University -six Holy Cross priests and six lay persons ­and a 30-60 member, predomi­nantly lay, Board of Trustees. 
Having designed the new structure, Stephan became one of 12 charter fellows and the first chairperson of the newly constituted trustees. serving in both roles until being elected a Life Trustee and chairperson emeritus in 1982. He also at that time was designated Counsel to the Fellows and con­tinued in that role until his death. 
A 1933 Notre Dame gradu­ate, Stephan earned his law degree from Harvard University in 1939 and joined Mayer, Brown & Platt in 1945. He was the recipient of an hon­orary doctor of laws degree from Notre Dame in 1967. and in 1983 he and his wife, Evelyn, were awarded the University's Laetare Medal. 
This  medal  is  commonly  
regarded  as  the  foremost  
award  given  to  American  

Catholics. 
At the time of his death, Stephan was chairman of the board of trustees of the Lloyd Fry Foundation, a trustee of the Arthur Schmitt Foundation, a member of the Finance Council of the Catholic Archdiocese of Chicago and a member of the Archdiocese's Big Shoulder Fund, which sup­ports inner-city parochial schools. 



'Generations' campaign grows 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame has received a four-year grant of $60,000 from the O'Connor Family Foundation of Oklahoma City to provide scholarships for undergraduate students from the Oklahoma City area. 
"We are grateful to the O'Connor's for this generous grant, " said University president Father Edward Malloy. "The broad geographi­cal diversity of our student body is one of Notre Dame's most treasured distinctions, and the O'Connor Family Scholarships will help us attract and retain the finest students from a remarkable region." 
Recipients of the O'Connor Family Scholarships will be selected by the Notre 

Cards facilitate 


designated driving 
Special to the Ohoerver 
In an effort to encourage an.d remind people not to drink and drive, Notre Dame Student Government and the Drug and Alcohol Education Office have designed 
· Designated Driver cards which entitle the holder of the card to free soft drinks at various locations for being designated 
driver. "''·· . · Mary Gillard, student gov­ernment chief of staff. is opti­mistic about the newprogram. "We thinkthis card will help 
•pronlofe .1.lmore responsible atmosphere when it qomes to drinking and driving,,. she 
.. said. . 
Establlstiments par(icipating 
Jil<~ll.~ .. p~pmotion it1qlud~: ..·mni,.Senior Club tBW~ 3':s 
·:: ·::.:<''._::--.-.:::·:-':··: ·.: _·._----::' ·=-:..:::t\/:'':_::·· ___ .--:--.=::_:_:-:·' 
UtiehaQ.~·~r ••Madis~p. oyster 

Bar, CJ's. Bridget McGuire's, 
Corby's, Fifinegan's, Club 23, 
Coach's and MorCormick's. In 
order to receive the .free soft 
drinks, card holders only need 
to show their card to the bar­
tender. 
The cards.also have the 

Saferide phone number on 
them as well as the days and 
times that Saferide is avail­
able. Cards are available in 
the Student Government Office 
on the second floor of 
LaFortune and in the Drug 
and Alcohol Office located on 
the -mezzanine floor of 
LaFortune... 
'!The card gives the students two options! they can be the driver and receive free soft drinks for doing so or th~ card .r~minds d:1~W that they have acc~$s to. -;a,. free Saferide 
Dame Club of Oklahoma City and administered by the office of financial aid of the University. 
William Joseph O'Connor III, a 1989 alumnus of the University and his wife, Kimara, both of Oklahoma City are the donors to the O'Connor 
Family  Foundation  of  Oklahoma  City.  
O'Connor's  late  father,  William  Joseph  
("Bucky") O'Connor, was a  1948 alumnus. His  

mother, Jane O'Connor, is a Notre Dame bene­factor as well. 
The grant is a component of the University's $767 million "Generations" campaign. Announced last May, "Generations" is the largest fund-raising campaign in the history of Catholic higher education and the ninth lar.~est capital campaign now in progress in American academe. 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 



Paul Mankowski, S.J. 

Father Mankowski is Professor Invitatus of Hebrew at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome. A South Bend native, he entered the Society of Jesus in 1976 and was ordained a priest by Archbishop Daniel Pilarczyk of Cincinnati. He received his Bachelors in Classics and Philosophy from the University of Chicago, his Masters in the same from Oxford, his Masters of Divinity and Licentiate of Sacred Theology from the Weston Jesuit School ofTheology in Massachusetts, and his Doctorate in Semitic Philology from Harvard. 
Father Mankowski will be discussing what the Old and New 
Testaments have to say about homosexual acts, both as an authority on 
the history of biblical language and as a priest who teaches at a 
pontifical institute in Rome. He hopes that his talk will contribute a 
needed perspective to the campus discussion about homosexuality. 
Tuesday, January 20 Hesburgh Library Lounge • 8:00 p.m. 

~-~­

~ -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------.r 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 20, 1998 


Service 
continued from page 1 
Highlighting the issue of 
fear amongst people of differ­
ent races was the point of a 
personal reflection by Saint 
Mary's junior Tysus Jackson. 
Detailing the issue of interra­
cial friendships, Jackson 
offered an anecdote from her 
childhood dealing with a 
white friend who was afraid 
of Jackson's color. 
"At nine years old, I learned 
that people would be afraid of 
me because of my blackness. 
At 21, I know there are more 
people who still are afraid of 
me because of my color," 
Jackson said. 
She continued by emphasiz­
ing the importance of love, . trust and faith that King, Jr. spoke of when dealing with 
fear of people of other races. 
Senior Jennifer Warner was 
pleased with the number of 
people who came to the ser­
vice. 
"For the Saint Mary's cam­
pus to recognize this day is 
very important. Particularly 
with an interfaith prayer ser­
vice to celebrate King, Jr.'s 
birthday because he tried to 
perpetuate the interaction 
between people of different 
faiths," Warner explained. 
One of those attending the 
interfaith prayer service 
hoped that what was celebrat­
ed yesterday would not be for­
gotten. 
"It was a great gift to have 
the Saint Mary's community 
and guests come together in 
prayer and celebration. I hope 
it energizes us to carry out 
and continue what we cele­
brated," Sister Betty Smoyer 
said. 


Chapel 
continued from page 1 
Voices of Faith Gospel Choir and Rejoice Black Catholic Choir provided the musical interludes for the evening and brought the crowd to their feet after their rendition of "Where the Spirit Is." 

The prayer service was fol­lowed by a reception in the Keenan and Stanford Halls lobby. 
The Dr. Martin Luther King Celebration Planning Committee included students and faculty representing sev­eral organizations on campus including the Center for Social Concerns, Campus Ministry and the Office of Muticultural Student Affairs. 
Amway Corporation 
Amway Corporation recruiting Wed, February 11th 
Accounting lntern·ship Positions. Amway's global operations provide stimulating opportunities for accounting students to experience a variety of areas including financial reporting, pricing, global operations analysis, management accounting & analysis, Activity Based Costing, cash manage­ment, international accounting and budget performance plan­ning. Amway's Financial Services division has the best available technology at their disposal. 
Position Requirements: 
All interested students must be eligible to work on a permanent full-time basis in the U.S., regardless of citizenship status, GPA a minimum of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale, and you must bring a copy of your most recent transcript to your interview. 
Overview of Company: 
Amway Corporation is one of the world's largest direct selling companies with operations in80 countries and territories, and rriore then 14,000 employees worldwide. More than 3 million Amway distributors market Amway products in such fields as home care, hometech, personal care, health & fitness, commercial line products, and catalog shopping. Amway is a privately held company with estimated annual sales in excess of $7.0 billion. 
Sec Career & Placement Services for an appointment. 
MANY ITEMS ON SALE TO WELCOME YOU BACK: 
NOTEBOOKS, DISKETTES, CALENDARS, CLOTHING, BACKPACKS AND MORE. 
AND DON'T FORGET YOUR TEXTBOOKS! 
YOU ALWAYS SAVE SIG WITH USED BOOKS! 

THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 



Tuesday, January 20, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• NATIONAL NEWS BRiEFS House fire kills seven 
ELKHART, Ind. 

Family and friends meant everything to Charlie Lemons, who was there whenever any­body needed anything. No one was surprised when Lemons ran inside a longtime friend's burning house early Sunday to try and save the woman's six young grandchildren. Lemons, 65, and the young cousins, ranging in age from 4 to 9, all died. "I know why he did it. He knew those kids were in the house and he was trying to save them. That makes it easier, but just the fact I won't see him no more . . . " said Diane Lemons, her voice trailing ofT as she began to cry over the loss of her father. The children's grandmother, Nattie Sims, wanted to go back inside, but a t\i&ighbor held her back as smoke and flames poured from the windows. "She was trying to get into the house, and I grabbed her and was holding her tight," said Michael Brown, who lives on the next block. "She said, 'Don't hold me while my kids are burning."' But I couldn't let her go. "Those kids were hol­lering. That's something you never want to hear." The cause of the fire was under investi­gation. but police said it was accidental. 
One dead, three wounded at Martin Luther King parade 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

A simmering fight between two people erupted into gunfire at a Martin Luther King Day parade on Monday, killing one man and wounding three young children. The dispute was apparently personal and not racial or political, said Cpl. Don Kelly, a police spokesman. Police were searching for at least one shooter, who was believed to be black. All the victims were black and it was not clear whether they were bystanders or participants. Kelly described the aftermath of the shooting as "mass pandemonium." In the debris left by fleeing marchers was a picture of King, splattered with blood. There were not many spectators in the commercial area near downtown. "We watched them go by, and everyone seemed as happy as could be, until the shooting happened," said Elaine Tucker, office manager for a locksmith shop. "It went pop, pop, pop, pop -four shots right off," she said. "Then people began run­ning everywhere." An unidentified 25-year­old man was killed, police said. A 7-year-old girl was in critical condition with a gunshot wound in the back. An 11-year-old girl shot in the leg and hand was in stable condition and a 9-year-old boy, shot in the leg, was in guarded condition. 
Andersen Worldwide considers breakup 
CHICAGO, Ill. 

The accountants at Andersen Worldwide arc willing to let the consulting unit break away from the firm, but they want the con­sultants to pay a hefty price for leaving. The accountants plan to argue that Andersen Consulting is bound by contract to pay close to $11 billion if it wants out. It also should give up the highly-recognizable Andersen name, a source close to Andersen Worldwide said Monday. "If Andersen Consulting wants to fly the coop, to go out on their own, so be it," said the source, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "But we intend to get our fair share, what is equitable." Under terms of the contract between the units, any entity leaving must pay 150 percent of their annual rev­enues to the remaining firm. 



Netanyahu arrives in U.S. for talks 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 

Buoyed by stirring support from evangelical Christians, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu began with what could be a difficult visit here Monday with a demand that Palestinians cancel their call for Israel's destruction. 
By all accounts, Netanyahu is bringing to President Clinton a proposal for a modest pullback on the West Bank, one that may fall short of the administration's expectations and certainly of Palestinian leader Yassar Arafat's dreams. 
But Clinton said he had "high hopes" of reviving the Mideast peace process in separate talks this week with the Israeli and Palestinian leaders. He assured Israel of his support and said the Palestinians, not just Israel, had to make concessions to breathe life into Mideast peacemaking. 
Netanyahu, speaking hoarsely but sounding a rousing theme, told a widely enthusiastic Christian group that "there is no peace with weakness." 
The Rev. Jerry Falwell keynoted the reception in a crowded hotel ballroom by declaring: "Israel loves America, and that's why I support Israel. I love democracy, and Israel is the only true democ­racy in the Middle East." Falwell, who also met separately with Netanyahu, said: "I accept the AFP Photo covenant of Abraham and I believe Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu greets political leaders yesterday in Washington. God blesses those who bless 
provision in the covenant of the upbeat about the White House meet­Israel." 
Palestinian liberation Organization that ings. "I've got high hopes," the presi­E. Brandt Gustavson, president of the calls for the destruction of Israel as a dent told reporters at a Martin LutherNational Religious Broadcasters, sound­Jewish state. King Day appearance at a local high
ed a similar theme. He assured 
We cannot be asked to sign a second school. "I've worked hard on it. I'mNetanyahu that Christians "stand with agreement while the first agreement is committed to making it a success. I'mthe prime minister for an undivided being violated," he said. going to do my part."
Jerusalem." 

Insisting that the Palestinians, in an Clinton met privately at the WhiteIn his own speech, Netanyahu offered open meeting, should tear up the char­House with American Jewish leaders.
assurances he intends to preserve what ter, Netanyahu said: "How else can you According to one of the participants,
has been achieved in Arab-Israeli 
have peace if your partner has a consti­there was no attempt to give Netanyahu 
peacemaking until now. But he said 
tution that calls for your destruction." the cold shoulder or put the onus onIsrael needed the Palestinians' compli­
Clinton, due to see Netanyahu on Israel for a slowdown in Israeli­ance with pledges they have made, 
Tuesday and Arafat on Thursday. was Palestinian negotiations. 
beginning with a promise to nullify a 
Gore unveilS ciVi'l~igHfs ·SJl~tJdiQtfPlan 
ASSOCIATED PRESS King woul<!. hav~ turl1~d 6~: ..because . . their f~th~t · believe he would tell us 
last week.··········· . ..· . · ....• ~\~.wit ; wregarq~~ ,them differently. that we $till have much to 
ATLANTA. Ga. •. G\Jnfire·.·at•• a.~hfit 1Jay·(·'tha1J ?g~epl}t.~· pa•...sai~· do in banishing discrimina.. 
In a serm?n;.Jike speech tion from our hea.rts,.. Gore from th~ ;~~Yl .M.artin said. 
Luther King ~tf;tsrormer Si~l~1l\\~ifi~«~i~~~~lfi;iei~1~~~ •· ·· Coretta $~ott King, King's 
pulpit, Vice President AI dren~ }>olice said the·$hoot-< guns slay their brotheEs?. · widow. said before the Gore marked the King hoU.; ing was the result ofa.fight They tell us time and again speech that any new feder· day Monday by laying out a and race was not a factor; ·· that tht:Hr brothers disre· al effort to improve race plan to increase civil rights Martin Luther King Ill spected them." relations is a step in the spending by $86 million. was in Minneapolis to give . Gore s.aid the proposed right direction. 
The Clinton administra­a spee'ch .when.he was told · civil rights spending boost "Whateverinitiatives that 
tion will propose spending ofthe shooting. ·.. > < . wiHinclude a $22 million ·are going to lead toward $6d2 million to enforce "lt drives home some of increase for the the progress for all people, civil rights laws in the 1999 the points I tried to make Department of Housing and especially for African budget, up from $516 mil­today,'' he said. "We have Urban Development to fight Americans and minorities, lion this year, Gore said. got to work to eliminate housing discrimination. it will be good,.. she said. 
"This is a priority. That is violence. It is totally out of Other changes would The service was one of why it received such an hand." strengthen investigations of hundreds of events around enormous increase when Gore. meanwhile, spoke police brutality and the country honoring King almost everything else in to a crowd that. included enforcement of the three decades after his 
The U.S. Markets were 
closed today because of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s birthday. 
the budget is being King's widow in a more Americans With Disabilities assassination in Memphis, decreased... Gore said at animated, almost fire-and· Act. Tenn., on April 4, 1968. Ebenezer Baptist Church. brimstone style, compared Details will be included in In \Vashington. Clinton 
Elsewhere around the with his usual deliberate the budget submitted by joined members of nation. the slain civil rights tone.· President Clinton next AmeriCorps and communi· leader was remembered He used the Bible story of month. ty volunteers to repair and with prayers, service pro­,Joseph being left for dead King "would be proud to paint classrooms at the jects. parades and, for the by his brothers to address see how much we have District of Columbia's first time, a halt in trading contemporary violence. done to banish discrimina~ Cardozo High School as a on U.S. financial markets. "They felt disre~pected · tion from our laws. But I King Day service project. 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, January 20, 1998 
campus next week. "We hope that this will help us make posi­

FDA requires permit to clone CLC 
tive and tangible steps in race 


Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The Food and Drug Administration has a warning for the Chicago physicist who wants to clone a human: The agency will shut down anyone who tries without its permis­sion. 
Richard Seed's cloning plans have sparked a public outcry and a race by Congress and more than a dozen states to ban cloning. 
With the FDA filling what critics had called a regulatory vacuum, scientists say lawmak­ers should take more time to ensure vaguely worded anti­cloning bills don't also ban life­saving medical research. 
"It's been a public and media assumption that there is noth­ing on the books that would even slow or stop Dr. Seed," said Carl Feldbaum of the Biotechnology Industry Organization, which represents biotechnologists involved in cloning research. FDA inter­vention "creates at least some breathing space." 
FDA investigators plan to make clear to Seed that federal regulations require that he file for FDA approval to attempt cloning -permission highly unlikely. 
"We're not only able to move, we're prepared to move," said Dr. Michael Friedman. FDA's acting com­missioner, noting the agency can go to court to stop unau-


Sponsor 
continued from page 1 
was published in Reader's Digest. Schmuhl said the new sponsorship will "help to give the series continued visibility in American journalism." 
The funding donated will go towards paying the hono­thorized cloning attempts. 

"The scientific issues are far from clear and ... there are some significant ethical con­cerns that have to be dealt with," added Friedman, noting that the first cloning success ­the Scottish sheep Dolly -took 277 tries. For safety reasons, "We're more interested in the 277 failures than in the suc­cess." 
Seed did not return a call for comment, but says he plans to clone a person within 18 months. A physicist, Seed has 
no medical degree, no labora­tory backing and little money. so scientists aren't taking him seriously. 
But President Clinton urged Congress to ban human cloning, congressional leaders have pledged quick action after they return next week. and bills are pouring into state legisla­tures. 
Scientists say broadly word­ed bills already pending in Congress would ban cloning­related research that could one day grow replacement organs. mend spinal-cord injuries and better treat infertility. The key, they say. is banning only baby­making by cloning. 
"One man who's on the fringe has drawn a lot of atten­tion in Washington and state capitals," said Dr. Benjamin Younger of the American Society for Reproductive Medicine. "If they are going to do this. come up with legisla­tion that bans cloning but pro­
rarium and travel expenses for the lecturers, as well as for publishing costs to dis­tribute the speech. 
McMeel is a 1957 graduate of Notre Dame and a mem­ber of the advisory commit­tee for the Program in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He is also on the advisory committee of the University's College of Arts and Letters. 
tects research." 
But scientists' biggest alarm came from Florida, where a bill proposed making any cloning of human DNA a felony -even though cloning human genetic material is standard practice in genetics research, the making of critical medicines and even police DNA fingerprinting. 
The bill was withdrawn after its authors "realized this would have stopped biomedical research in Florida in its 
~·~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Our Sensational 
Outlook Centers 
Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS 
Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical 
support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit 
cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant 
network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, 
a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team-oriented 
professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty 
amazing feats. 
As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for Comruter Science and MIS individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
Please join us at the: 

1998 SUMMER/INTERNSHIP JOB FAIR Thursday, January 22nd • 1:30pm-4:30pm University of Notre Dame Joyce Center Concourse, 2nd Fir. 
We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401K, profit sharing, and tuition 
reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your 
enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, 
full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning services, ATM, softball field, volleyball 
court, jogging path, and much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to: 
NOVUS Services, Inc., Human Resources, IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, Riverwoods, IL 60015, Fax: (847) 405-1388 
continued from page 1 
to tag it to the effort to define the CLC instead of going through a separate ad hoc committee." 
Boyd, Coyle, student body presi­dent Matt Griffin and Alumni Hall rector Father George Rozum vol­unteered to serve on the special committee. 
In other CLC news: 

• The diversity committee announced that it plans to talk to leaders of all diversity groups on relations on campus," said com­mittee chair and Zahm Hall sena­tor Brandon Williams. 
He also announced plans to look at campus life through the eyes of non-Catholic students and how it might be improved. 
• The alcohol committee is working with the Faculty Senate alcohol committee on a combined report to the administration on how to battle the problem of alco­hol abuse on campus and what changes, if any, need to be made to the University alcohol policy. 

NOVUS SERVICES 
Taking charge in achanging world. 
www.novusnet.com 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/DN 




Ne.w Party Hall 
Convenient to 

ND/SMC  
... near the Airport  3900 Lincolnway  
BRENTWOOD  West (US20), South Bend  
CENTER  1 stoplight East of  
2 HALLS AVAILABLE  the Airport, just off the 31 Bypass  
Seating to 1,000  289-9999  
offfice opens at 1pm  

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Winter Clearance Sale! 
30% OFF NYTITLES . DURING JANUARY 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown South Bend. Open 10-5, Monday-Friday 
Always 10% offfor ND-SMC faculty & students! 
Notre Dame/ Saint Mary's Ballroom Dance Club 





Tang.o·· Night 
0 
Don't miss your chance to learn the Tango for FREE 
Tonight 8:30-1 0:00 pm Stepan Center 
Regular classes every Tuesday Starting January 2 7 
9: I 5 -I 0:45 pm 301 Rockne For more information contact Greg @ 634-1817 or Sherstin @ 284-5 I 38 

• GUATEMALA 

Security forces arrest four for bus ambush and rapes 
Associated Press 

SANTA LUCIA COTZUMAL­
GUAPA Guatemalan security forces have arrested four suspects and were hunting for three others Monday after five American col­lege students were raped in a daylight ambush of their bus. 
The rapes and robbery of the students from St. Mary's College in Maryland, on an anthropology tour of Guatemala, provoked outrage in the United States and calls here to end surging lawless­ness. 
The student group's pink­and-white bus was forced off the highway Friday afternoon into a sugar cane field by gun­men riding in two pickup trucks, police said at the scene 
here. 45 miles southwest of Guatemala City. 
Vowing to obtain justice, Interior Minister Rodolfo Mendoza said two suspects were arrested soon after Friday's attaek and had provid­ed the names of their accom­plicesN reportedly seven in all. 
The security forces are trying to capture the (suspects) " ... so that they can face the full force of the law," said Mendoza, who declined to discuss specifics of the case in which five young women were raped. 
A police detective told The Associated Press that two more men had been detained Monday in Guatemala City and taken to a prison in the capital city. 
"This group specialized in robbing long-distance tour 
t-lappy Bil"thday 
s~pe~ Tom Dehme~ 
.. 


buses. They have been operat­ing for some time," said the detective, who spoke on condi­tion of anonymity. 
The detective said the two men captured Monday were not soldiers but had been found with a duffel bag full of uni­forms and camouflage rain slickers. He said it was not known why the men had such gear. 
The students, 12 women and one man, were returning to Guatemala City after a tour of historic and cultural sites. They were accompanied by two male faculty members and a female administrator from St. Mary's College, a public, four-year lib­eral arts school 70 miles south­east of Washington. 
In Washington, President Clinton decried Friday's ambush and said he was confi­dent that Guatemalan authori­ties will handle the case appro­priately. 
"I have a lot of concern, obvi­ously, for the victims and their families," Clinton told reporters. "It's a terrible thing. We are persuaded the govern­ment is taking appropriate action." 
The U.S. State Department does not warn American citi­zens against traveling to Guatemala. However, its con­sular information sheet does note that crime has been increasing in the country. The department said entire groups of American tourists have been victims of rape, kidnappings, violent assaults and shootings. 
Far from home, the students were traveling in a country flush with weapons. Banditry has surged here since 1996, when leftist rebels and the government ended their 36­year civil war. 
The bus driver, Victor Anibal Lopez Arias, told The Associated Press that the ban­dits forced him over and fired shots in the air at the outset of the robbery. 
"We were there some two hours being threatened. They told us if we moved, they would kill us," Lopez Arias, 33, said in a brief telephone interview. 
He said they forced everyone off the bus and seized luggage, money and other items. "They raped one senorita in the bus and the other four met a similar fate when they were taken into the canefield," he said. 
Local police chief Jose Patzan said he and his officers arrived afterward and chased down one suspect, a 37 -year-old man. 
"He was fat. He couldn't run. He was with the group but he couldn't keep up," said Patzan, who is in charge of this city in the heart of sugar cane country, 45 miles southwest of Guatemala City. 
Patzan said police and sol­diers found the women crying, in apparent shock. 
After the attack, the women were taken to a nearby hospi­tal, where doctors offered to examine them. The students signed a declaration refusing treatment. 

Emma Perez, an administra­tor at the Seguro Social Hospital in Santa Lucia, said the students demanded to be seen by a U.S. Embassy doctor, waiting until 11 p.m .. when they gave up and returned to Guatemala City. 
"The young ladies seemed very affected, tearful," she said. The police chief, Patzan, has seven officers and eight soldiers who help him out in Santa Lucia. He has only one truck, which can't go over 20 mph. 
Asked if he had problem of highway robberies under con­trol, he said: "Sincerely, we do what we can, but as things are, it would be a lie to say that we can serve everyone." 
He said the attack on the American students followed the robbery of another bus the pre­vious day. 
Guatemala has seen a surge of common crime since the gov­ernment and leftist rebels 





----------~­
-~------------­


+ Campus Ministry This Week + 







OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Tuesdays, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-~adin Office 
Catnpus Bible Study 
Wednesday, January 21, 7:00-~:00 pm, Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Rehearsal for New Campus Ministry Choir 
which will sing at inter-denominational Wednesday Contemporary Prayer Services on February 4, March 4, April 1 and April 29, 7:30 pm-8:00pm at Stanford-Keenan Chapel in a variety of musical styles, from Taize chants to lively contemporary songs. All are welcome, including instrumentalists. Please contact Karen Schneider-Kirner or Sarah Granger@ 1-5242. 
Friday-Saturday, January 23-24, St. Joe Hall , 
Freshtnan Retreat#14 for Freshmen of Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Keough, Howard, Knott, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West and Sorin. 
Friday-Saturday, January 23-24, Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Saturday, January 24, Lindenwood Retreat Center 
Voices of Faith Gospel Choir Spring Retreat 
Sunday, January 25, Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
Misa En Espanol -Spanish Mass 
Monday-Friday, January 26-30, 103 Hesburgh library 
Sign-up: NDE Retreat #50 (Feb.27-March 1) 

EMMAUS 
Are you interested in joining a scripture/faith sharing group in your residence hall? Discover a new way to be part of a community to enrich your faith. Stop in to Campus Ministry for information or contact Jim Lies, C.S.C., John or Sylvia Dillon, Kate Barrett or Sarah Granger at 631-5242. 
University Village Volunteers 
Campus Ministry is looking for student volunteer to assist in a "Parents' Time-Out" program at the University Village -Married Student Housing Complex. It meets on Wednesdays from 9:00A.M.-11:30 A.M. when the University is in session. This minis­try would entail working with two mothers to plan activities for children ages 1-4 and to assist in general child supervision. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 if interested. 
Announcetnent: Starting Monday, January 26 Campus Ministry will have daily events calendar in the Observer. Please look us up and join us in our programs!
I
( 
i 
January 20, 1998  
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT  





OINT 
Tuesday, January 20, 1998 
page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor 
Jamie Heisler 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski 
News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Sports Editor .................................. Mike Day Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 

Business Manager Tom Roland 
Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy , Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Controller............................................Kyle Carlin 
The Observer is rhc independent newspaper published by the students of rhe University ofNorre Dam~ duLac and Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither insrirmion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, A~sistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  6.:H -4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sporrs  631-4543  Offtce Manager  631-7471  
Accenr/Sainr Marv's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  6_)1-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• SHADES OF GRAY 
New Millennium, New Curriculum 
I could have done lots of things during winter break. I could have gonr, fishing or visited Mexico. Even at 85 degrees, the beach wasn't out of the question. 


Isaac Ruiz 

I could have eaten really big food at a really big Texas steakhouse. Evrrything is bigger in Texas. 
Yes, I could have washed my pick-up truck, and I could have carried a concealed handgun. But instead, I did the same thing you did during the holidays. 
I watched TV. 

And I don't regret it. I, for one, am not ashamed to admit that tele­vision is what holds this country together. TV brought us the staged moon landing and has given us a new generation of heroes like Bob Saget and Ross Perot. 
Not to mention TV's effects on the economy, which are well docu­mented. No secret-without Martha Stewart. this country would not be the leading producer of "toilet paper roll tube crafts" IN TilE WORLD. And, of course, tele­vision is an indispensable educa­tional tool. 
So as we prepare to enter the next millennium, let us recognize TV's role as national unifier. Let us exploit it as it does us. At Notre Dame, we can do that by bringing TV into the classroom. 
Don't get me wrong. I love my classes just the way they are (espe­cially if my professors are reading this). But there's always room for 
• DOONESBURY 
experimentation. 
Just last semester, my class­mates and I learned about the leg­islative process from "Bill, up on Capital Hill." Judging from my legal writing grade, I could have used a little "Conjunction Junction," too. 
What I propose is even more unorthodox, something on the cut­ting edge of education. Students would learn to apply abstract prin­ciples to factual situations. 
I suggest we watch daytime tele­vision. 
Take my Torts class (please). Instead of the usual case analysis, we'd analyze a segment of the "Jerry Springer Show." The dia­logue might go something like this: 
Professor: "Okay, let's make tracks. Mr. Ruiz, discuss the rights and liabilities of Yolanda, the Tijuana stripper." 
Isaac: "When Yolanda asked her boyfriend 'Spike' why he was fool­ing around with her best friend, Spike made a quick gesture and told her to 'talk to the hand.' The quick motion scared Yolanda and may constitute assault." 
Other student: "Mr. Ruiz is incor­rect. For assault, what's impor­tant is apprehension, not fear. Besides, Spike isn't Yolanda's boyfriend. Spike's a girl." 
Professor: "Don't go there." 
Critics of my plan will surely charge that the television method ignores a vital part of legal educa­tion, the law. I disagree. I offer the following potential bar exam answer: 
"Plaintiffs breach of contract claim should prevail, based on Judge Wapner's landmark decision in 'The Case of the Chirping Chihuahua."' 
I know that my radical views will shock the "establishment," but I am confident that our school will eventually embrace this plan. 

Notre Dame and television already walk hand-in-hand (WE LOVE YOU, NBC). Incorporating daytime TV shows into daily lectures will prepare us for the challenges of the new millennium. 
Isaac Ruiz is a first-year law stu­dent and will not appear in law school brochures anytime soon. Send e-mail to isaac.ruiz.13@nd.edu. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer.. 
YE.S... IT'S A DRAMATIC DEVE.LoPMGNT, BUT LETS 
HOLD OFF ot-.t TAAT PRE~S 
CPNFE.RE.~E.-AT LEASI Ut-lTIL AfTE.R S~~~~ 
SEA.CSON... 
\ 

• lETTER TO THE ErHTOR 
ND Made ofMen, 
Not Boys 
Alyssa DeNardi's Accent article in Wednesday's Observer was disturbing in its generalizations of the men of Notre Dame. Baffled by the assessment that Notre Dame is full of "boys," we did some research. In trying to understand the viewpoint of the author, we looked up "platonic" in the dictionary. To no surprise, it read: a non-physical, intellectual, ideal, and spiritual relationship. What we did not find was a friendship based on visits to Bridget's, "drunk dialing," and fixations on movie stars. 
The inability to form an ideal relationship can be traced to selection of social activities. Worthy Notre Dame men are not to be found at Bridget's, to where Ms. DeNardi has admittedly limited her social interaction. This is not a condemnation of Bridget's, or of any other bar. It is just that Notre Dame students tend to be more intelligent, decent, and honest when encountered in other settings. Dorm Masses, volunteer programs. and other such activities should be pursued to find mature Notre Dame men. 
Developing "meaningful friendships" is difficult between genders if a woman perceives all the men she meets as being uninterested in a solely platonic relationship. These'false assumptions are not con­ducive to starting a friendship. It is difficult, and ultimately futile, to try to build a strong bond if this barrier of misinterpretation exists. 
Some women would also be well served in aban­doning their Leonardo DiCaprio, and the like, fan­tasies. As Notre Dame men, we have trouble relat­ing to someone who is infatuated with a movie star based solely on his looks and portrayals on screen. We are more interested in women, platonically and romantically, who don't base their desires on physi­cal appearances, but rather on the whole person. Connecting with another real life person is far more gratifying than dreaming of a one-dimensional movie star. 
Being honest and sincere will lead to strong rela­tionships founded on common value systems and beliefs. 
Tim Greene Hunt Hanover 
Freshmen St. Edward's Hall January 15, 1998 


tv!TII7H~ 
lf&LPCF 
YOl/RN/Ke 
HANI?tlfli?'3? 
\ 

NO. I/lON'T 
P!ANCW?W­
ING7H/3M 
PJLIAT~l/P 
NflHMY 
SCH!3/?(JL&. 
~ 
8lJT 

WHAT IF THeY 
TAIL.. 

YOUr 
/ 
IfN&CESS4RY, 
I'U.. 5HAKe 
1H&MINA 
HIGH·SPE£1? 
CHA~ 7l-IJ?al6ll SAIGON. ANI? 
ru. ee~EAR-­
tNG A P/S6(/I!fe. 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
''When a door of happi­
ness closes, another opens; but often we look so long at the closed door that we do not see the one which has been opened for us." 
-Helen Keller 

page 10 Tuesday, January 20, 1998



ACCENT 


I 
'l ( 
.
\.:.1 \ 
l 
1I 
If Dr. Martin Luther IGng were alive today~ what would he say abqut the status of ·civil rights? 

Praying for at 
By MARY MARGARET NUSSBAUM Associate Accenr Editor 

"I feel he would be extremely disappointed because since his death we have come 
basically to a standstill. As a matter of 
fact, recently I feel we have regressed in 
the issues of civil rights." 
Nikole Hannah Senior, Welsh Family 
"I think he would still see room for 
improvement. He would still want 
changes to be made." 
Fred Kelly Senior, St. Edward's 


Monday night, Chandra Johnson, an elegant African-American with a true stage presence, begins the prayer service at Stanford­Keenan chapel, "Welcome to a moment of grace," she says. 
The room is full. Professors and nuns and varsity athletes and young men who are experimenting with goatees have crowded in. The gathering includes people of all ages and of all colors. They are looking for what Johnson offers and for what Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., lived; they are looking for grace. 
King was born in 1929 in Atlanta, Ga. His beginnings were hum­ble. lie suffered the same ugly injustices that have scarred so many people of color. But, as 
King would later testi­fy, he was born into a home where faith was food and love reigned supreme. King attend­ed Morehouse College, Crozier Theological Seminary and received his doctorate from Boston University. He became a Baptist min­ister. He would later marry Coretta Scott and have four chil­dren. 
His deep devotion and a fiery sense of purpose drove him to become the shepherd of the civil rights movement and a prophet of peace. King led the Montgomery Bus Boycott and head­ed the Southern Christian Leadership Conference. In 1964 he won the Nobel Peace Prize. 
King shared his stal­wart commitment to creative non-violence with Ghandi, Dorothy Day, Henry David Thoreau and Cesar Chaves. He spoke in the tradition of S~ourner Truth, 

Harriet Tubman and In the Stanford-Keenan chapel, participants in th Frederick B. Douglas. 
On Aug. 28, 1963, a quarter of a million people followed him in a march on Washington. There King gave his famous "I Have A Dream" speech. He came to cash a check. He came to make good on a promise, the promise of "unalienable rights" which is America. He spoke in the rich pulpit­trained baritone voice which had first swayed sweaty congregations in Ebenezer Baptist Church. On this day, in 1963, he would sway a nation. 
Standing in the shadow of Abraham Lincoln, King proclaimed, "We have also come to this hallowed spot to remind America of the fierce urgency of now. This is no time to engage in the luxury of cooling off or to take the tranquilizing drug of gradualism. Now is the time to make real the promises of democracy; now is the time to rise from the dark and desolate valley of segregation to the sunlit path of racial justice; ;ww is the time to lift our nation from the quicksands of racial injustice to the solid rock of brotherhood; now is the time to make justice a reality for all of God's children." 
Father Jim Lies speaks of making justice a reality at Notre Dame. He speaks of a God who can "save us from our own selves, from our pettiness and greed." He encourages those gathered at the Stanford­Keenan Chapel to realize that they must work tirelessly for justice and peace. Prayer cards titled "For the times when ... " are distrib­uted throughout the crowd. Lies asks the people to reflect on experi­ences of injustice and of inspiration. The familiar chords of Amazing Grace can be heard. 


"Don't forget about yesterday! He would want Americans to remember the struggles of the past." 
Dameyon Harrison Junior, Knott 
"I think he'd be happy with some progress that has been made. I think he would find new issues in today's society." 
Francesca DeLayo Freshman, Breen-Phillips 



"If he came here (to Notre Dame) he wouldn't be very happy." 
Nikki Restaino Freshman, Cavanaugh 
Tuesday, January 20, 1998 page 11
;ACCENT 



Jetter tomorrow 
The prayers ask for the Notre Dame community to grow, in cele­bration, as one. They ask for freedom from the chains of homopho­bia, racism and sexism. There are prayers of thanksgiving. There are prayers honoring all of the richness and beauty which is made manifest in diversity. 
A video prepared by the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Celebration Planning Committee spotlights Notre Dame students who are Hawaiian, Nigerian, German, Polish, and Sioux. The students discu~s what it means to be American, they share the stories of their own families, and they speak of the gifts which they will bring to· the Notre Dame community and to the world. 
Their voices are woven together with King's and with a poem by James Weldon Johnson called "The Creation." This poem begins 

The Observer/Anthony Shakur 
1e Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Prayer Service read "Stories" as a tribute to King. 
with a vivid image, "And God stepped out on space." It paints a pic­ture of God -the God King worshiped and the God this crowd is praising -in the space above, liberated from the skin and language and gender which clouds and confines our own vision. 
On April 4, 1968, days after helping to lead a march of sanitation workers who were demanding better wages and safer working con­ditions, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., was shot and killed by an assas­sin. In his final speech he had foreshadowed his own tragic death. 
"Well I don't know what will happen now. We've got some difficult days ahead. But it doesn't matter with me now. Because I've been to the mountaintop. And I don't mind. Like anybody, I would like to live a long life. Longevity has its place. But I'm not concerned about that now. I just want to do God's will. And lie's allowed me to go up to the mountain. And I've looked over. And I've seen the Promised Land. I may not get there with you. But I want you to know tonight, that we, as a people, will get to the Promised Land. And I'm happy, tonight. I'm not worried about anything. I'm not fearing any man. Mine eyes have seen the glory of the coming of the Lord." 
The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir begins to sway and sing, "Where the spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty," the choir begins, "where the spirit of the Lord is, the captive are set free, the wounded are made whole, l find rest for my soul. Where the spirit of the Lord is, there is joy!" Grace and joy. 

Remembering his words 
I 
am not unmindful that some of you have come here out of great trials and tribulations. Some of you have come fresh from narrow cells. Some of you have come from areas where your quest for freedom left you battered by the storms of persecution and stag­gered by the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans of creative suffering. Continue to work with the faith that unearned suffering is redemptive. 
Go back to Mississippi, go back to Alabama, go back to Georgia, go back to Louisiana, go back to the slums and ghettos of our northern cities, knowing that somehow this situation can and will be changed. Let us not wallow in the valley-of despair. 
I say to you today, my friends, that in spite of the difficulties and frustrations of the moment, I still have a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the American dream. I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true meaning of its creed: "We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal." I have a dream that one day on the red hills of Georgia the sons of former slaves and the sons of former slave owners will be able to sit down together at a table of brotherhood. 
I have a dream that one day even the state of Mississippi, a desert state, sweltering with the heat of injustice and oppression, will be transformed into an oasis of freedom and jus­tice. 
I have a dream that my four children will one day live in a nation where they will not be judged by the color of their skin but by the content of their character. 
I have a dream today. 

I have a dream that one day the state of Alabama, whose governor's lips are presently dripping with the words of interposition and nullification, will be transformed into a situa­tion where little black boys and black girls will be able to join hands with little white boys and white girls and walk together as sisters and brothers. 
I have a dream today. 

I have a dream that one day every valley shall be exalted, every hill and mountain shall be made low, the rough places will be made plain, and the crooked places will be made straight, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. 
This is our hope. This is the faith with which I return to the South. With this faith we will be able to hew out of the mountain of despair a stone of hope. With this faith we will be able to transform the jangling discords of our nation into a beautiful symphony of brother­hood. With this faith we will be able to work together, to pray together, to struggle togeth­er, to go to jail together, to stand up for freedom together, knowing that we will be free one day. 
This will be the day when all of God's children will be able to sing with a new meaning, "My country, 'tis of thee, sweet land of liberty, of thee I sing. Land where my fathers died, land of the pilgrim's pride, from every mountainside, let freedom ring." 
And if America is to be a great nation this must become true. So let freedom ring from the prodigious hilltops of New Hampshire. Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New York. Let freedom ring from the heightening Alleghenies of Pennsylvania! 
Let freedom ring from the snowcapped Rockies of Colorado! 
Let freedom ring from the curvaceous peaks of California! 
But not only that: let freedom ring from Stone Mountain of Georgia! 
Let freedom ring from Lookout Mountain of Tennessee! 
Let freedom ring from every hill and every molehill of Mississippi. From every mountain­side, let freedom ring. 
When we let freedom ring, when we let it ring from every village and every hamlet, from every state and every city, we will be able to speed up that day when all of God's children, black men and white men, Jews and Gentiles, Protestants and Catholics, will be able to join hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, "Free at last! free at last! thank God Almighty, we are free at last!" 
Excerpt from "/ Jlaue a Dream,. by Dr. Martin l.uther King. Jr., delivered on the steps at the Lincoln Memorial in Washington. D.C. on Aug. 28. 1963. 
I' 
' 
~----­

page_1_2_________________________________________T~he~O~bs~e_IT~e_r_·~S_P_O~R~T~S~____________________________TI_u_es_d_ay_,_Ja_n_u_ar_y_2_0_,_19_9_8 
•NBA 

Lakers' announcer calls 3,000th consecutive game 
Associated Press 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Chick Hearn was willing to 
talk. Nothing in life ever has 
been able to prevent that natur­
al phenomenon. Yet his trade­
mark enthusiasm was missing a 
beat. Something seemed off, 
out of kilter, un-Chickish. 
"I feel pretty good," he said, 
"after a miserable night." 
Now one may wonder what it 
would take to put the Los 
Angeles Lakers' upbeat 
announcer in such a funk. A 
sleepless night, bad attack of 
the flu. unexpected personal 
misfortune, flashbacks on 
"Bowling for Dollars?" 
Nope, it was much more seri­
ous than that. 
The Lakers had lost. No. not 
just lost, but lost at home to the 
lowly Philadelphia 76ers. 
"Terrible game," Hearn said. 
"Embarrassing." 
He was taking this hard. It -was one game out of 82 during the regular season and already a fading memory to most, but he was still wrestling with this disap~ointment the next day He was taking it personally. He always does. 
"Sometimes if you didn't know 
he was a Lakers announcer, you 
would almost think he was 
biased against the team," 
Lakers executive vice president 
Jerry West said. "But deep 
down inside, he lives and dies 
every game that we play. 
"1 can't tell you how many 
times I've had calls in the office 
when he was really down after 
a loss and I tried to encourage 
him, tell him this is the way the 
NBA is comprised. You can't 
play well every night. I think 
people don't see that side of 
him, because they see him up 
and effervescent all the time." 
It's not like Hearn hasn't hL,ld 
a little experience watching the 
Lakers stumble now and then. 
He's been broadcasting their 

games for 38 years. 
"But his whole outlook on life is predicated on how the Lakers are doing," assistant public relations director Raymond Ridder said. "If we win eighfin a row, he'll be so excited. He'll say, 'We're going to the NBA Finals. Nobody can beat us.' Then if we lose the next one it's, 'I don't know if this team can make the playoffs.' " 
Want to know how Chick Hearn has endured so many years? 
Want to know how he could possibly broadcast his 3,000th consecutive game Monday when the Lakers host the Orlando Magic? 
Because he cares so much. 
There really is no way to put it in context. There is nothing to compare it to. What has anyone ever done 3,000 consecutive times? What can be used for perspective? 
Hearn started broadcasting the Lakers in 1961. He was a local sportscaster on Channel 4, but soon then-Lakers owner Jack Kent Cooke realized what he had, and Hearn was focusing on the Lakers. 
From the moment he first described a rookie guard named West, he was a natural. No, more than that, he was and remains, an original. 
He invented an entire basket­ball lexicon adopted throughout the country. He did the play-by­play with flair and originality, critically and authoritatively. Woe to the color man who tried to get in more than a few words. 
In his 38 years, he has missed just two games. One because he was covering a golf tournament in Palm Springs, now called the Bob Hope Classic, and couldn't get to St. Louis in time. The second and last was in November 1965, when he was in Fayetteville, Ark., working a college football game for NBC and rain poured down at the airport where Cooke had a Lear jet waiting. 
As he approached the plane, the pilot waved his arms to indi­cate there would be no flight. 
"What's the matter?" Hearn asked. "I don't like the weather." he said. 
Hearn argued briefly, and then looked up at the darkened skies. . 
"Well. if you don't like the weather, I don't like it either," he said. 
Nothing has stopped him since. Not for the next 34 years. 
"I feel good about it because it's such a big achievement." Hearn said. "The first thousand consecutively, I didn't even know I had until somebody told me. Since then, I've kinda been counting and looking forward to seeing how many I could get. And 3,000 without a miss going back to 1965 is something I'm very proud of." 
Ridder was about to be a sophomore at San Gorgonio High School when his family moved to Wichita, Kan., in 1981. He missed Southern California, but he particularly longed for one thing: Listening to Hearn call Laker-garnes. 
Then on Christmas, his par­ents gave him a present he could have never imagined cherishing quite so much-a short wave radio. 
Suddenly. he could come home· from school and pick up Hearn describe the Lakers, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar unleash a "skyhook," Magic Johnson "yo-yoing" tip and down the court, Mark Landsberger finish­ing a fastbreak with a "slam dunk." 
"I was on top of the world," Ridder _said. "I would just lay in bed and list to Chick call the Laker games. It was tremen­dous." 
Understand, Hearn is the only announcer to ever call a Lakers game. Ridder is just a small fragment of the Southern California population that has never heard anyone else describe the Lakers. An entire generation that has grown up only listening to Hearn. 
Through illness and personal tragedy {both of his children are deceased), he has been to the arena to bring the nation's sec­ond largest market his "word's eye view." Sometimes with a bucket at his side, sometimes fighting laryngitis. 
"There are many things that make this streak so remark­able," said Bill Bertka, in his 17th season as a Lakers assis­tant coach. "It's just incredible his eternal enthusiasm. There's nobody who loves the game more. 
"There are a lot of people who live in the outlying areas of Southern California who have never been to a Laker game, and they've only heard one voice all these years. It's has always been painted by Chick. Words are his palette and these people live and die by his description of the game." 
Pat Riley didn't know if it was the end. He wondered, though. 
It was October 1970, and he had just been cut by the Portland Trail Blazers after an exhibition game against the Lakers. 
Three years earlier he had been a No.1 draft pick of the San Diego Rockets, but now his professional career seemed headed towards disappoint­ment. 
Riley walked out of the arena and saw ominous signs. 
"It was raining cats and dogs," he said. "My wife and I were standing outside of the Laker bus as they were all com­ing out after the game. 
"And Chick came out, and I'll never forget looking him in the eye and saying, 'Chick, is there anyway you can get me over there?' He looked at me and said, 'I'll try.' And you know what, the next week-I don't know if he had anything to do with it or not, but I think he put in a good word for me-and I was down here." 

This was at a time when Hearn was so admired and respected by Cooke that he also doubled as his assistant general manager. 
Riley went on to play on the Los Angeles Lakers first NBA championship team in 1972, became Hearn's color man for three years before beeoming an assistant coach on their 1980 championship team, and then was their head coach for four more NBA titles. 
Beyond his remarkable longe­tivity, it is his style that sets Hearn apart from other announcers. 
l-Ie is likely the greatest NBA announcer of all-time. His rapid-fire diction, colorful insight, knowledge of the game, objectivity, undying profession­alism, passion for what he does and his own distinctive person­ality, meld to give the listener a singular experience. 
"He's a unique character and certainly someone who's left his legacy on this franchise," West said. "He's bigger than some players. I Wouldn't want to be the one to replace him." 
Many who have listened to Hearn for so many years may be unaware that most of the col­orful expressions he uses are originals. No one else has given the world of basketball so many unique terms. 
But Hearn said each has been spontaneous, each coming out in the flow of the action. 
"If I tried to plan them and say 'I'm going to try this tonight and sec how it works,' I don't think it would," he said. "It just comes ofl' the top of your head. I'm just a big-mouthed Irishman." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
~-N__O_T_IC_E_S__~II~--~--~_N_T_E_D__~ 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. Don't take a chance with an unkown agency or some 1·800 number. Limited space available. so book now! Anthony Travel, Inc. Lafortune Student Center 631·7080 
Spring Break '98 Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida. Group Discounts &Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips. Earn Cash &Go Free! 1·800·234· 7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
...ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR SPRING BREAK. GROUP DIS· COUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE 
LEISURE TOURS HAS PACK· AGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. 1·800-838-8203. WWW_LEISURETOURS.COM 
Long Dis. Call for 19c/min 24 hr For a FREE rechargable card send stamped envelope to Box 681, Notre Dame, IN 46556
ILOST & FOUNDI 
Missing: WRISTWATCH lost just before semester's end Fossil -leather band/white face Please call Nicole @ 0565 

Want~d: Serious Rock/ Pop Drummer for live shows. We are currently publishing a CD and intend to promote it in the Chicago area. Call Mike at 634·0789 
Aide to assist dyslexic 
student with reading and 
notetaking at Clay Middle 
School. 10:15-12:45, M·F, Jan 26-June B; $6.00/hr 
No degree required. Call Asst Prin Vicky Thomas, 243-7145. 
1998 STORYBOOK FESTIVAL VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Saint Mary's College and the Early Childhood Development Center are co-sponsoring a Storybook Festival for young children (ages 2.5·6) on Sunday, February 8, 1998_ The Storybook Festival will celebrate books and the worlds they create by bringing children inside those worlds through a variety of art,· music, movement and creative dra­matic activities. Volunteers are needed to assist on the afternoon of Saturday, February 7 with set-up and on Sunday, February 8 during the afternoon and evening as greeters, storyroom volunteers, and to help with event clean-up. There will be a meeting for everyone inter­ested in volunteering (faculty, staff, students, and community members) on Tuesday, January 20. 1998 from 5:30-6:30 at the Haggar College Center Parlor, Saint Mary's College. For more information. please call the Saint Mary's College Public 
Relations Office at 284-4595 or the Early Childhood Development ADVERSTISING SALES INTERN· SHIP University Directories is hiring stu­dents to sell yellow page advertis· ing for the official campus tele· phone directory this summer. Commission based pay structure. Training program. Excellent sales & marketing experience. Call 1-800· 743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.uni· versitydirectories.com 
****Interested in Making Extra Money•••• 
Large Physical Therapy Practice looking for students to make Follow-Up phone calls to see how our patients are-doing. Filing and computer entry also available. Flex. Hours. Call Gerard or Doug Now! ***233·5754*** 
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enJOY young children. If you would be interested in spending 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with chlidren, please call Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at 284·4693 (ECDC-SMC). Please join our fun filled days. 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY • Models needed for figure drawing classes in the art department. Please call: 631· 7602. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2·5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON House for Rent 
Two Blocks from Campus 4·5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer. August for Fall. Includes Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and off-street Parking. 
MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! Call 289·4712 
1 Bed room furnished apt in a home in good residential area. 10 mins from ND. Share kitchen. Security system. No smo'king,drinking or partying. Postgrad student or faculty only. $ 400 per month. Security deposit $250, References required, Call 277-0189 after 3.30 pm 
2 Bedroom 2nd Floor Apt. $450/ mth. Short term 6 mth. lease. View of St. Joe river from 2nd Fir. porch. 1906 historic home, security sys­tem, walk-in closets, storage, off· street parking. Gas, electric, phone, and cable by tenant. Call Greg @ 288·2654 
Roommate wanted for 3 bdrm house. Safe. $208+dep_+util. 
Call 291-7460. 

ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER.ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS· 5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3·4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
2 BEDRM HOUSE FOR RENT 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 
WASHE~DRYERSUMMEROR 
FALL.272-6551 
FOR SALE 

Compaq Notebook. 20 meg. RAM, Color monitor includes carrying case, manual, etc. Call Greg @288-2654 
PlayStation+NHL+NFL+NBA =100$ mike 251-0820 
75 mhz pentium PC w/ monitor, 16MB RAM, Win 95, 1 GB hard drive, 4x CD Rom $750 David 243·4761 

Cannon Bubblejet 200e, new car­tridge, $90obo, Italian drafting table, $80. adj. drafting chair, $85. Chris 631·9795. 
Brass bed, queen size with deluxe • orthopedic Mattress set and Frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082 
For Sale: Convenient Condo living 
just a few blocks from Notre Dame. 
3 bdrms., 2 full baths and access to 
clubhouse with pool and work out 
room. Corner unit with · Comemporary flair. Call Trace Cole 
at 243-9565 for more info. 
TICKETS 

WANTED· ND vs MIAMI B-Bali tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 
ALAN JACKSON TICKETS FOR SALE 277-1659 
Student Activities is accepting applications for LaFortune Building Managers (evening &weekend shifts). 
Also accepting applications tor Information Desk Attendants. (Must be able to work a 1 0·2pm shift on Thursdays.) 
If interested apply at 315 LaFortune_ 
wow, two days in a row. where's the love? 
I hope none of you guys picked these to do .... so much for getting ahead 
digital ocilliscopes are liars_ batter· ies don't do AC, I swear it. 
spock, bones, the mark IV has gone mad! we must do something ... enign bryant, try to unplug it! 
ATIN: GAY, LESBIAN, and BISEXUAL Students, Faculty, and Staff .... 
ORIGINAL Student-Run Group will hold 1st Meeting and Movie Night of 1998 on THURSDAY, 
1/22 at 7:30pm. 
Call Info-line at 236-9661 for details and location. 
Joe o_ What are you doing Jan. 30th? -Melissa 
Colleen has a black belt in karate! 
"Avant garde" means messed up 

Center at 631·3344 or 284·4693. 232-2595 GRANGER· WASHER, DRYER, Wafflehead is still on the move. Lost: Gold and silver wristwatch. Please join us for this wonderful. REFRIG &STOVE. $695 MONTH PERSONAL 
I 
Huge sentimental value. If found enriching event which promotes lit· FURNITURE for rent I sale PLUS SECURITY "I'm not drunk. I still know what mycall Becky x4215_ eracy and the love of reading! 
call Dave @ 4-3006 CALL BOB 232-6434 Moose head. name is and where I am." 
I 
' I 
i ' 
Tuesday, January 20, 1998 

The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COllEGE BASKETBALL 

Princeton continues to prove ranking is no fluke 
By JACK CURRY Associated Press Writer 
NEW HAVEN 
The players on perhaps the most precise and definitely the most unusual college basket­ball team in the nation are sit­ting at school desks inside a musty room waiting to oppose Yale on a January night. A cur­tain surrounds the Princeton Tigers to supposedly muffle the sounds of students on rowing machines as coach Bill Carmody lectures his squad. 
But Carmody is not distracted in this strange setting. His voice is passionate and his eyes are excitable as he hovers over the players. Carmody knows he has a wonderful group of athletes, maybe as special as any since Bill Bradley was the big man on campus more than three decades ago, and he knows his players should squash Yale. So he peers into their anxious faces and reminds them of who they are, and who they can become. 
"Each time you go out there, you want to show this is the product of your hard work," Carmody tells them. "It's such a special time for you. There are 35-year-old guys who play basketball every weekend and wish they could be where you are." 

He continues: "Enjoy it, but whatever you do is what people are going to remember you by. When you're 25, you don't want to think back that we didn't play well against Yale. Why not remember playing 15 straight games where we were great? This is a special time. Don't let it go by." 
Over the next 40 minutes, Princeton did not. While the Tigers (13-1) were not as dom­inant as they have often been in losing only to then No. 1 North Carolina and achieving a No. 12 ranking, they never trailed while winning, 68-57. 
On this night. they won by scoring 66 of their points on layups, 3-pointers or free throws. They won by being patient and unselfish in a sys­tem .Princeton has singularly employed since its former coach Pete Carril walked onto campus in 1967. They won by using a quick and underrated defense. And they won in an athletic manner that makes these Tigers quite special. 
"I don't buy into that Ivy League, nonscholarship stuff," said Niagara coach Jack Armstrong, whose team lost to Princeton, 61-52, in the ECAC Holiday Festival final. "That's ridiculous. These guys can play." 
It's simpler than it looks. 
As Carmody fiddles with the remote control while reviewing the Yale game in his office, he keeps insisting that Princeton's system of choreographed zigs and zags is simple. Carmody has a summer basketball camp and said that teen-agers are fearful of trying the offense, but they grin as if Michael Jordan were their new roommate after they understand and run it after three days of practices. 
The Tigers start three seniors and two juniors; they are savvy and skilled, and that is appar­ent as they unleash their offen­sive sets. 
All five players are moving. Cutting hard. Setting screens. Searching for the trusty back­door play. Holding the ball high and making crisp passes. Staying properly spaced, with center Steve Goodrich above the key to direct the flow and keep the middle open. They want layups or 3-point attempts and patiently move from option to option until the search is successful. 
Usually, they get their threes. 
After Goodrich faked a back­door pass and gave up the ball on the second possession against Yale, he used a screen set by James Mastaglio at the free-throw line to nail the first of Princeton's 11 3-pointers. The basket came off the 12th pass of the possession and destroyed 34 seconds of seem­ingly sound man-to-man defense by Yale. 
Usually, they get their layups. Midway through the first half, Mitch Henderson passed to Goodrich above the key. Goodrich faked handing the ball back to Henderson, a sig­nal for a play, and Henderson veered right to screen Emerson Whitley, Gabe Lewullis' defend­er. Whitley anticipated it and shifted right to prevent a 3­pointer because Lewullis makes 
Don't miss your chance!!! 
Summer Service Projects '98 
LAST Info Ni2ht: Weds. Jan. 21st 7pm at the CSC 

DEADLINE: January 23rd 
Applications are available at the CSC (Sign up for an interview, too!) 
-8 weeks ofservice-learning -$1700 Tuition Scholarship -3 elective Theology credits 
C E N T E R F 0 R 

Questions???
SOCIAL 

Call Sue (1-7867) or Erika (4-1494) 
CONCERNS 



Dart League 
Preli.uinary round and signups at 10 p.n 

As alvvays $2 all you can eat vvings!! 
44 percent from that range. 
That opened the backdoor. 
Lewullis darted to his right and 
snared Goodrich's pass a stride 
from the basket for the pretti­
est of Princeton's 14 layups. 
The backdoor is Princeton's 
signature, the play that 
Goodrich and Lewullis com­
bined on to shock UCLA, the­
defending champions, in the 
first round of the 1996 NCAA 
tournament. 
However, they do not even 
practice it. It is simply within 
the system. 
"I hate when people tell me 
this is hard to do," Carmody 
said. "You can do this at any 
level and any school." 
They're Smart and Hard­
Nosed Goodrich, a 6-foot-1 0­
inch senior, is the most critical 
player in Princeton's system 
because he is a point center 
who comes out high in the 
offense and leaves the pivot 
{)pen for cutting. 
He barely shot 3-pointers in 
high school, but has made 42 
percent from beyond the arc. 
Yale coach Dick Kuchen has 
praised him as one of the two 
top passing centers in the 
country. Since Princeton does 
not have a true inside attack 
and essentially starts Goodrich 
and four interchangeable 
guards, his versatility around 
the perimeter is integral. . 
"It's five guys working 
together," Carmody said, "but 
the center is the most impor­
tant.'~ 

If Goodrich is not nabbing 
another assist, then it is 
Henderson, the feisty guard 
who is such an impressive ath­
lete he was drafted by the 
Yankees as an outfielder. The 
6-1 Henderson has an assist-to­
turnover ratio of 2-1, a superb 
statistic because his left-hand­
ed bounce passes off the drib­
ble, which could squeeze 
through closing subway doors, 
often glide between two befud­
dled defenders. 
"He's the toughest guy on the 
team in every way," Carmody 
said. 

Brian Earl looks like he might 
shave once a month, but he can 
be an assassin. He also leads 
the team in scoring, averaging 
14.2 points a game. 
When Yale twice trimmed the 
deficit to seven points in the 
second half, Earl played 
Superman. The guard faked a 
3-pointer and drove around 
two defenders for a layup. 
Then he sank a 3-pointer after 
Goodrich feigned a backdoor 
pass to NateWalton . 
Earl's effort was particularly inspiring because the econom­ics major had slept just one hour the previous night while finishing a paper for the course "Mechanical Aerospace Engineering." 
"It's not as hard as it sounds," said Earl, whose older brother, Dan, is_ the starting point guard at Penn State. "Heally, it isn't." 
With his crew cut and rugged approach, Lewullis looks like he belongs at a military acade­my. Actually, he fits snugly at Princeton, where he is the elite 3-point shooter and showed it by making four against Yale. Mastaglio is an adept passer and capable defender who takes the fewest shots among the starters. 
"We have smart players vvho are very good athletes," said Carmody, the second-year head coach who started as an assis­tant in 1982. "We used to hang around the Wake Forests and North Carolinas for 33, 34 min­utes. Now we can win those games." 
------------~-~-----~-----------------~-·--~-~--------------------~------------­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
• INTERNATIONAL SWIMMING 


Underdog Pilczuk tops Popov 
Associated Press 
PERTH, Australia 
When Bill Pilczuk faced Russian great Alexander Popov in the ready room, everything was normal. 
"He was staring at me like I was an insignificant peon­which I was," Pilczuk said. 
It took less than a minute to change everything. 
With a rocket start and an acceleration that left the field in his wake, Pilczuk pulled swimming's upset of the decade, beating two-time Olympic champion Popov in the 50-meter freestyle of the World Championships. 
Pilczuk finished in 22.29 sec­onds, 0.14 seconds ahead of Popov, who had not lost a major race since 1991. 

"It never entered my mind that I would beat him," Pilzcuk said. "I was racing for silver. I just happened to have an ideal race at an opportune time." 
Pilczuk, 26, of Cape May Pointe, N.J., has a habit of doing the unexpected. Originally an NCAA Proposition 48 academic casualty, he went on to graduate magna cum laude from Auburn. 
Popov, who was stabbed and se.riously wounded on a Moscow street just after the Atlanta Games, won_the 100 freestyle easily but said he "didn't have my best race" in the 50. 
"Bill had the better race, he deserved it," Popov said. "I have a lot of gold medals, maybe it's time to start collect­ing silvers. It's not every day you can win a silver medal." 
Pilczuk was the unexpected star of the World Championships, which ended Sunday, and Jenny Thompson. Amy Van Dyken and Australia's Michael Klim were the biggest. 
Thompson, 24, of Dover, N.H., won four gold medals and a silver; Van Dyken, 24, of Littleton, Colo., won three golds; together they continued the sprint dominance they began in 1996 at Atlanta . 
Jan 24 Jan 30 
Jan 31 Feb7 Feb 14 Feb 18-21 Feb 28-Mar 1 Mar 13-14 Mar 26-28 
Tuesday, January 20, 1998 


Swimming hedule 
at W. Kentucky at Bowling Green 
vs Buffalo at Cleveland State ST. BONAVENTURE WIS-MILWAUKEE at Big East SHAMROCK CLASSIC at NCAA Zone C Meet at NCAA Championship 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
.........•:.~·: ...'~~·~:\,·:·: ·::.;· :,;;;::;~,~~l~j-~~.1 1 If>···•••········· ...., '.:... :!.:$,,:.... 
Shorin-Ryu Karate-This a.m.·:ifa''!tie;Sdays frofi}'.6:45-ed. th~~~~~~~~Ii inform,lJ.~ semester-long course meets in 7:45 p.Jli7 Th~ advanced class tloll .rii.~.fi~jpg0ii ~~b~ay. Jan. 
:z:: 


Rm. 419.. · ··.·•· ···· t··' ;; . ·. ·····.···· 
Ballet-RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet....,Jhe beginner class is for dancers with 0-4 . years experience. Both classes are semester-long classes. The beginner class meets on Saturdays from 10:15-11:45 
.·. 

26. 111 t.~.e Rt}~Spotts offu;e,. 
Classes Will begin on Saturday, Jan. 3h Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will be offered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12~1:30 
p.m. (Sat.) aqd 8-9 p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne Rm. 301. All levels are welgome, but space is limit­
.·::::::~~:: 

DbWtthil ~~;t!l"J.P:-R~ySports
will besponsriri.ng a Downhill Ski trip tq,,§WIS~Valley~ The fee for tho$e 'iiee<.Upg !orentskis is $28, and,...fot:thdse who will bring theirnwn~kis. the cost is $19..... All>parf.it;ipants must reg­
ister in a(l:van¢~ ~tRecSportson or beforeWedJ}esday, Jan. 28 . 
. liitJJY 19f1k 
JJi:rfY~ty, <2ry1~! 
------M'T GIT TOO 
08~·LIM ~OV80LDMII 
•

ATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology t<_, the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Staffing, P.O. Box 655 474, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75265. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 

Fencing 
continued from page 20 
third man." 
The three leaders for men's foil, Stephane Auriol, Chaz llayes, and John Tejada, all used the tournament to practice for the upcoming schedule. 
"We didn't finish that well, but the key is we worked off the rust and jitters that developed in the off-season," pointed out Hayes. 
"As a team, this allowed us to get that fight back in us," remarked Anne lloos, a senior on the epee squad. "This gives us the competitive edge we need for the season." 
Said women's epee captain Magda Krol. "The meet was a good way to start the semester, not only for me, but also for the team. Because of our finish, we look very strong." 
Individually, Krol placed ninth in the women's open and sev­enth in the under 20 tourna­ment. As a result of the return and fine play of Sara Walsh in foil, Krol \\-ill be able to focus on competing in epee. 
The team will enter the colle­giate spring season with this weekend's tournament at Hutgers University. 


IN CREATING 5PORTSf/2PJ.GE, NIKE MAKES EVERY EFFORT TO BE  n  
ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY ERRORS. IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED,  0  
LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT RE1 (NOW AND WE'Ll TRY NEXT ISSUE  II  
n  
0.,  
CD  
n.,  


CD 
Ill 
r+ 

Congratulations to the winners of the NIKE College Flag Football National Championship held during Sugar Bowl week in the Big Easy. Over 2,000 athletes competed; here are the champs: 
• 
Men's Division: Ohio State University, Med-Staff Raiders 

• 
Women's Division lnstituto Politecnico Nacionale (Mexico) 

• 
Co-Ree Division: Northeast Louisiana University 




19  20  21  22  23  24  
FENCINGN AT NoRTH AMERICA CuP  WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALL./V AT SYRACUSE  MEN'S TENNISN Ice HoCKevN vs MIAMI (OHIO). 9:00 AM AT BOWLING GREEN, 7:00 PM  
-·­ 7:00PM MEN'S 8ASKETBALL./V VS. SYRACUSE JACC 9:00PM  VS. DEPAUL, 4:00 PM MEN'S SWIMMING AND ECK TENNIS PAVILION DIVINGN WoMEN's BASKETBALL./V AT W. KENTUCKY, 1:DO PM VS. PROVIDENCE INDOOR TRACK!V JACC, 200 PM AT RED SIMMONS INVIT. ANN ARBOR, Ml  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  
ICE HOCKEYN  WOMEN'S BASKETBALL./V  WOMEN'S TENNISN  WOMEN'S TENNISN Ice HocKevN  
AT OHIO STATE  AT VILLANOVA  AT DRAKE, 5:00 PM  AT PuRDUE, 10:00 AM AT MICHIGAN, 7:00PM  
3:00PM  7:30PM  M/W SWIMMING &  MeN's TENNISN MeN's BASKETBALL./V  
FENCINGN  MEN'S BASKETBALL./V  DIVINGN  AT NORTHWESTERN AT ST JOHN's, 2:30PM  
AT RuTGERS ALL DAY  VS. VILLANOVA JACC 7:30 PM  AT BOWLING GREEN, 6:00 PM ICE HOCKEYN VS. MICHIGAN JACC, 7 00 PM  1:00PM INDOOR TRACK!V W /BASKETBALL./V AT INDIANA VS. SETON HALL IJACC, 2:00 PM •...L .... WON'T FIT ON 31ST...  

0 
:::1 Ill 
-
< 
II 
<
Ill
., 
-VI r+ 
..
'< 
n 
II 
n 
c:: 
-
tr II 


DOING IT 
The fields might be frozen over, but that doesn't put Women's Field Hockey practices on ice. This dedicated club team simply takes the workout indoors where practice is just as intense as in the open air in warmer months. For hours each 
week, these women hone their individual and team skills to gear up for fierce competition against teams from all over the Midwest in the months ahead. Practices are from 9:00 to 
10:00 PM Mondays and Wednesdays at Loftus, and new players are always welcome. 

THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS1/2PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP 
Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Sports1/2Page tracks upcoming sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Email me at colleen.henshaw@nike.com with events, athletes or teams you think deserve a mention. If you tried to reach NIKE but couldn't, try sports.halfpage@nike.com . 
Welcome back! Hope everyone had a great and restful holiday break. Now that the weather is colder and you're heading inside to work out, look for me in the gym with thirsty towels for your sweaty bodies. 
:::1

FENCINGN 
r+
.,

AT HARVARD, Au DAY 
Ill . MEN'S SWIMMING AND. 

3

DIVINGN 
c::
.,

AT CLEVELAND STATE 
Ill r WOMEN'S SWIMMING ' AND DIVINGN
i AT MICHIGAN, 1:00PM 
i 2:00PM 
I ~ 
i 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, January 20, 1998 
1 
• SUPER BOWL XXXII

' l 




I. NFL's Steeg heads preparation for Sunday's game 
il 
Associated Press 

t 
I 
Behind the scenes, Super Bowl XXXII is a numbers game. Just think about it. Next Sunday almost 800 million tele­vision viewers in 188 countriesl will watch the Green Bay I ~ Packers and the Denver Broncos live, in color and in 17
I 
languages.l Nearly 70,000 folks will see 
\ the action from their seats at 
1 San Diego's Qualcomm Stadium. Another 3,000 media are credentialed to chronicle the exploits of Brett Favre and John Elway. And the list goes on: 17,000 hotel rooms; 16,000 game-day parking passes; 600 private jets; an 800,000-square-foot hospitality village; 1,200 pregame show dancers; 1,600 halftime performers; a 2,500­member security force; five Blue Angels and a B-2 bomber. And, last but not least, 300 tons of garbage, generated during the course of the afternoon. These staggering numbers are just a fraction of what goes into orchestrating Super Bowl 

XXXII. And the enormous responsibility of making it all happen without a glitch falls on the shoulders of one man, Jim Steeg, 47, the NFL's vice presi­dent of special events who is in his 19th year as maestro of the Super Bowl. 
"No one else in the world understands the big picture of the Super Bowl," says Jerry Anderson, a Salt Lake City 

..,, 
sports architect and member of Steeg's Super Bowl team since 1985. "Unlike most sports exec­utives, Jim believes he's the conscience of the fans. He 

'I
II ' 
l I 
11 
understands what the game means to the common man, how it feels to pay $275 or $350 for a ticket and what kind of show you should get for that." 
Says Arlen Kantarian, presi­dent of Radio City Productions, who has produced several Super Bowl halftime shows for Steeg since 1988: "Jim's a guy who manages everything to do with the single-biggest event in the world, with the most unas­suming style of anybody I've ever worked with. He's a breath of fresh air." 
Adds Bob Best, who has pro­duced the Super Bowl pregame shows for Steeg the last 14 years: "He lives the Super Bowl. He loves it. It's his life." 
Born in Boston and raised in Fort Wayne, Ind., the son of an engineering professor at Purdue, Steeg grew up a sports fan. He wasn't physically gifted enough to follow his heart into the athletic arena. So, he got a bachelor's degree in political science at Miami (Ohio) and an master's in finance from Wake Forest. Longing to be a part of the action. Steeg wrote letters to every pro sports team in America, and in 1975 he was hired as an accountant by the Miami Dolphins. 
Within four years, Steeg had risen through the ranks to become the team's business manager, and word spread through the league about the Dolphins' boy wonder. When Joe Robbie, then the owner of the Dolphins, decided to let him go to create a job for one of his sons, it was a stroke of good fortune for Steeg. 
A day later, Jan. 2, 1979, Commissioner Pete Hozelle handed Steeg the newly created position of NFL director of 


The CCC allocates student activity fees to clubs, advises clubs, and rep­resents the interesli~;,l;JI'-r~ltlbs in the Student Union and to the 
•••.nistration•. , . 
Todayisthela c;tiony Si.efring at 631-4078 
. . ···:·:·::.;:;::~:;:.,:.:.:...:. :-.... 


There are 3 •Academi •Ethnic 
•Special I 
Election·Tim and Location by division are: 
lflill®~@lf!l Wa ~riD rn:HYlt;l ffW ~® 
7pm  Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune  
8pm  Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune  
9pm  Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune  

~®@rnl®~@l@Wa ~®ITUMCIDflW ~4] 
7pm Foster Room, Lafortune 8pm Foster Room, LaFortune 
administration. Only 28, Steeg was in charge of managing the league's events outside its New York headquarters: the Super Bowl, Pro Bowl, AFC and NFC championships and the NFL draft, to name a few of the pro­jects. 
"Pete said, 'I've got a great job for you. Just give me some time to shape it. Trust me,' " recalls Steeg, who quickly was dispatched to observe Super Bowl XIII in Miami. "I didn't know how big the job was, or what Pete had in mind. I was certainly not prepared to this extreme." 
Talk about growing into the job. The shy, egghead-like Steeg, whose idea of a bang-up time was a plate of nachos and a seat in the quietest corner of the party, was now concerned with massaging the egos of temperamental national anthem singers, assigning police motorcades to lead the Super Bowl teams to the stadi­ums and dreaming up scrump­tious spreads for NFL owners' suites. 
Today, the best way to describe Steeg is to say he's a combination of Ed Sullivan, Steven Spielberg, Bill Walsh, Martha Stewart and James Bond-with a little bit of Ralph Kramden thrown in for good measure. 
Like Sullivan, Steeg is ring­master of the league's $120 million signature entertainment event. Like Spielberg, he's the chief decisionmaker behind an epic blockbuster. This week, Steeg will be bombarded by at least 200 calls a day and inun­dated with enough faxes to wallpaper his hotel suite many times over. Most will be requests for Super Bowl tickets. 

NTERNATIONAL WORKING OPPORTUNITY 
. }f'.·.·-·-·· ':.::')f•'''' 
Academic Clubs Social Service Clubs Special Interest Clubs 
Athletic Clubs Ethnic Clubs 



Apr 19 Apr 23-26 May 15-17 May 23-31 
"Do not let what you cannot do interfere with what you can do." 
HELP a tradition founded by Knute Rockne that has contributed over $500,000 to rhe Holy Cross 
Missions in Bangladesh. 

HAVE AN IMPACT ! There is no better time to learn and practice the principles of a true Notre 
Dame man or woman: serving others... caring... giving of yourself. 
JOIN BENGAL BOUTS as a participant, member, volunteer, promoter, spectator, organizer or 
donor. Stop in the boxing room over the next few days or any time in the flext few weeks if you 
want to help or call 631-9325. 

It's not too late! Last week marked the start of boxing practice for the 68th Annual Bengal 
Bouts, a tradition on campus since its founding in 1931 by Knute Rockne (as a way to get his 
football players in shape!) The bouts have impacted thousands of student lives ...but more 
importantly, the young lives of hundreds of thousands in Bangladesh (formerly Bengal). 
•Over 
$500,000 in proceeds from the Bouts have gone to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh to help run Notre Dame College, a secondary school, an orphanage, a medical center, and much more. 

•Dominic 
J. "Nappy'' Napolitano directed the program for over 50 years, and now this unique, non­varsity sport is under the capable direction of Tom Kelly, Rich O'Leary, and Terry Johnson. Meet amazing coaches including lawyers, entrepreneurs, law professors, judges, pilots, and wise old men who will impact your life. 

•Make 
this second semester special... participate in what the majority of the more than 3,000 Notre 

Dame boxers have called their "greatest experience at Notre Dame." Meet incredible people, and build friendships for life. 

•Whether 
you're a second semester law student (and want to forget about torts and tortes) ...or a 


freshman (trying to "find yourself") ...get involved! Practice is at the Joyce ACC in the boxing room (lower level next to the "pit") and runs from 4:00 to 
6:00 p.m. for the men and 6:00 to 7:30p.m. for the women. 
Help us... Help you ... Help yourself ... Help the mission...Help the poor of the world. 
Interested in Doing Research at a 
World-Class Research Institute? 
Undergraduate Summer lnsternships 
The Environmental Research lnstitue, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science &: Technology will award up to three Summer 1998 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL-with a foflow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. S~ipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week program. 
Student applicants should have research interests in·an environmentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute to the understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their junior Year by May 1998 and be registered toreturnin the Fall of 1998. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental Science & Technology: l52A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631"8376. Applicants will be required to complete an application. 

WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 23rd FROM 9:00AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 



Tennis 
continued from page 20 
bolt or screw as he powered past Chicoine 6-3, dominating from the baseline and playing confidently at the net. 
Jakub Pietrowski left his coach speechless as he surged by Minnesota's Adam Selkirk, 6-1. 6-1. 
"There really isn't much to say about it," Bayliss stated. "It was all Pietrowski." 
After Michalowski defeated Patterson in the first set 6-3, Patterson went on a 6-2, 6-3 war path to win at the No. 3 position. . 
Although unsuccessful at the No. 5 and No. 6 positions of Eric Enloe and Warford, the Irish showed definite potential. 
".They played hard and showed a good accounting for themselves," Bayliss said. "They had first match jitters, but they're both going to win a lot of matches down the road." 
Those few jitters have until Saturday to dance themselves out of the Irish. Rothschild will once again test his mighty shoul­der strength as last Saturday's hero carries his team's weight to the home court against DePaul and Miami of Ohio. 
Jan 24 Feb 1 Feb 5-8 
Feb 11 Feb 13 Feb 15 Feb19-22 
Feb,28 Mar·4 Mar6•8 

n•s Tennis Schedule 
MIAMI, OH -DEPAUL at Northwestern at Rolex Nationals 
(Dallas, TX) KENTUCKY OHIO STATE MIAMI, FL · atNational Indoor Tourney 
(Louisville, KY) WISCONSIN MICHIGAN STATE at Pacific Coast Doubles 
(La Jolla, CA) vs Pennslyvanla (La Jolla) 
u•.····'-·L·~-1L.:IIrey,}6\!essir;: 
at Indiana at Big East (Miami, FL) at NCAA regional (TBA) at NCAA Championship 
(Athens, GA) 
Located at 23 & lr~wood. In Scblotzsky's Deli. Next to Blockbuster. Ph. l4J-9272 (www.juiceojava.com) 
1/Z ~R·.IC'': $~.QQ1ffl£' ~·'·H'( 
£VI.IJ.Y 1UtiDAY UMt:IL 
l>llJBIJMC 88~A8fJ 
s·:;S.O, p~.,lt(._ ~ 

•·:so "'·M··· 
. 
j 
~ 
J 
Low in Fat-High in Nutrients The perfect meal substitute! 


Since 1931 
All Proceeds Go to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. Please Join us and help. 


---.......,
~~~~---~-·~---------------­
....,..--------------~------~-------------­
-
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS 
• WOMEi'.fS SWIMMING 

Back-to-back wins for the Irish 
)  By BRIAN KESSLER  
Sports Writer  
The Notre Dame women's  
swimming and diving teams  
have much to be happy about  
coming off two impressive dual­ 
meet performances this week­ 
end against ranked opponents  
Miami and Illinois. The two  
home wins improved the team's  
unblemished record to 6-0 in  
dual-meet competition.  
l.  "We went into both of the meets thinking they would be  
'  very close and our coaches had  
us really pumped up," comment­ 
ed Brittany Kline. "The win  
over Illinois was really exciting  
since they beat us last year."  
On Friday, the Irish jumped  
out to a 59-19 lead after four  
events and a 102-48 lead mid­ 
way through the meet with the  
25th-ranked Hurricanes and  
r  they never looked back. The Irish proved that last year's 
j '"i 1':.  come from behind victory against rival Miami in the Big East Championships was no  
fluke, as they went on to defeat  
I  the Hurricanes by a final score  
I i 1  of 195-105.  
! ! I  Senior Linda Gallo captured the 1000-meter freestyle, break­ 
I  ing her own school record and  
finishing with a time of 9:56.34.  
Gallo's time of 4:53.25 was also  
good enough for first in the 500  
freestyle, an event in which the  
III  Irish claimed the top three spots. Gallo was also part of the 400 freestyle relay team that captured first place in the last  
event of the meet.  
"It felt good to win the 500  
and 1000 since Miami's swim­ 
mer won both of these events at  
the Big East Championships last  
year," said Gallo.  

li ·.
ll; 
i­
1 
. I 
; 
Freshman standout Carrie Nixon was a double winner in the 50 and 100 freestyle and also helped the Irish to a first place finish, swimming the anchor leg in the 200 medley. 
Sophomore Alison Newell also had a good showing for the Irish, taking first in the 100 and 200 butterfly, as well as a third place in the 200 freestyle where she finished behind freshman teammates· Kristen Van Saun and Brenda Reilly, who claimed first and second, respectively. 
The backstroke events were dominated by Allison Vendt, a double winner in the 100 and 200 backstroke with times of 
59.10 and 2:05.80, respectively. 
In the two diving events, the Irish could do no better than third. 
"They have some of the best divers in the country so it was kind of intimidating," comment­ed Gina Ketelhohn. 
A day later, the Irish returned to the Rolfs Aquatic Center and knocked off a 22nd-ranked Illinois team that was 8-0 in dual-meet competition by a final score of 175-125. 
The Irish victory came as no surprise to many since Notre Dame had placed one spot ahead of Illinois in the Rainbow Invitational in early January. 
"We swam and trained with them in Hawaii, so it felt good to beat them, especially since they were ranked ahead of us," said Gallo. 
The Irish won the first three events of the meet, two of them behind Gallo who won back-to­hack races. She followed up her victory in the 1000 freestyle with a school record-breaking.perfor­mance in the 200 freestyle (1:50.10). However, Notre Dame only led 40-34 after the fourth race. 
Brittany Kline, Shannon Suddarth, and Kathleen Rimkus finished one-two-three in the fifth event, the 100 breaststroke. This sweep was huge for the Irish. 
"We watched the backstrokers and they were disappointed with their performance," said Kline. "The sweep was at a key point in the meet and it opened up the lead, giving the rest of the team a lot of confidence." 
The Irish built their lead to 97­53 after eight events as Newell captured the 200 butterfly, Nixon won the 50 freestyle, and divers Gina Ketelhohn, Jessica Johnstone, and · Rhiana Saunders swept the one-meter diving. 
"It felt good to bounce back the way we did taking first through fourth in the diving events after a disappointing per­formance against Miami," said Ketelhohn. 
Notre Dame put Illinois away with Suddarth's victory in the 200 breaststroke, Gallo's first place finish in the 500 freestyle (her third in as many events), and Liz Barger and Newell's one-two finish in the 100 butter­fly. 
Once again it was Ketclhohn leading the way in the diving events, as the Irish captured the top three spots in the three­meter diving competition. 
The women's back-to-back victories against ranked oppo­nents proved that the Irish are a legitimate top 20 team and the front-runners as they attempt to defend last year's Big East championship. 
Tuesday, January 20, 1998 
[ii:tl 
CEI'IITE!I '0" 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Mrican American (AA) and Hispanic (H) 
•Leadership Intern Programs• (LIP) Summer of 1998 
$2300.00 for 10 week program 
Learn leadership and community building 
Three elective Theology credits 
H  AA  
Chicago  Chicago  
San Diego  Detroit  
South Bend  (other areas}  
(Lexington)  
(Dallas)  ( ) possible areas for '98  
(San Antonio)  
Sponsored by:  Black Alumni of ND  
Hispanic Alumni of ND  

Center for Social Concerns Office of Multicultural Student Mfairs 
Applications available at CSC and OMSA Deadline for applications: Feb. 13th 
There will be a information session on •Jan. 21st • at the Center for Social Concerns 6:00 -7:00 pm 




ND store 
271-1177 

Saint Mary's/ North Village Mall 
271-PAPA 

Open for lunch everyday 
Drive-In and Delivery 
l.uncJfl, S;pecJlatll 

Visa/Mastercard
i G
Sman 1 topping 

Accepted
, 2 cans of Coca~Cola product 5~99 


Tuesday, January 20, 1997 The Observer • TODAY page 19 




:;
DOG~ERT AND THE 5KEPTIC 
0 
~---------------------------;0..J 
IF YOU!<. CONTROLLED TESTS HAVE NEVER FOUNO PSYCHIC POWER5J HOW 00 YOU KNOW \HE TESTS WORK. FOR TH~T SOR.T OF 
THING? 
_) 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Onetime Yugoslav chief 
1 Golf hazard 30 The time of 
s Abound one's life 9A few 31 Brenda of the 
13 ---law (old 
comicsGermanic legal 32 Marketscode) 33 Bewitch15 Lunchbox treat 34 Having keen 16 Opposite of 
VISion
unter 37 Baby beagle 
17 Having feet 40 Nonliteral humor 

pointing inward 19 Physics 41 Dusk to dawn calculation 45 34th Prez 20 "Tender---" 46 New Jersey ( 1983 Robert hoopsters Duvall film) 47 Indian homes 21 "Holy smokes!" 
48 Soup dishes 23 Surfing site 50 PC alternative 24 Dutch airline 
51 Home planet in a 25 Not much for 1978-82 sitcom mixing 
52 One of the 21 Attire McCartneys 
ANSWER. TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
0 
<( 
® 
:E
"' 
<( 
0 
<( 
... 
... 
0 
u 
"' 
.. 
E w 

53 Dairy workers 55 Cinergy Field team 56 Like one's fun house mirror image, maybe 59 Baseball's Moises 60 Salinger 
dedicatee 61 Lace place mat 62 Journalist Hamill 63 Arousing 64 Protected 
DOWN 
1 Recipe amt. 2 Attire 3 Search for the 
unknown? 4 Jetty s Pole on a 
reservation 6 God of love 7 Very wide. 
shoewise 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Unresolved issues tum a relationship into a battlefield if they remain unaddressed by the end of the day. Do not tap into Mars' destructive energy. Take the initia.tive if no one else is eager to make things happen. Taurus: You see the beauty in something that others find unre­markable. Getting into a fight over esthetics is just a waste of everybody's time. Try to reach a consensus on how to improve a visual environment. Gemini: You find yourself working closely with someone who seems telepathically linked to you. The possible uses for in­tandem thinking are endless. Be on the lookout for your new 

l~N'T \HAT LIKE U~ING 
A. METAL DETECTOR TO 
F1.NO OUT IF IHER£ ~RE. UNICORN5 IN 
YOUR SOC\<. ORAWER? 
NOI
. 
~~A,) 

43 Feminine 53 1910, on 
photographers and 
pronoun cornerstones 44 "Naughty, naughty!" 
54 Stars have big 47 Like most N.B.A. ones players 
editors.
55 Hip-hop49 Follow 
57 Put to work 

50 Boy in Life cereal ads 58 Hair coloring 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
staff. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
soulmate today. Cancer: Everyone recognizes the sanctity and importanc(' of home. Sometimes it is acceptable to tell the rest of the world to go jump in the lake. Beware of using this excuse too often, or it will cease to be valid. Leo: You receive a long-awaited response today. Be sure that someone who makes an elabo­rate promise intends to keep it. Act in good faith and hope for the best. Virgo: Your dealings with others

lA.TER TH ~T NIGHT 
seem hollow today. You are sen­sitive to the ultimately selfish way in which most living crea­tures see the world. Survival is an admirable goal. Now work on putting joy back into your 
Frenf:!h Dip Sandwich Cheese Lasagna Lo Mein with Shrimp 
Saint Mary's . Garlic Tortellini Yucatan Rice 
Eggsala.d . Be~rr~.Jtrgun~y Ragout Stewed Tomatoes 

life. Libra: Aim high today. This is a time to start new projects. Your people skills are in top form. Even if you act as an aggressive loner, others will be convinced that you are the most sporting team player on the field. Scorpio: If you were hoping for a little intrigue to spice up your life, this is the day. Someone who works close to you is about 
to show another face. Don't take it all too personally, and today's events could be amusing. Sagittarius: The life of Sagittarius is delightfully com­plicated by another, smaller archer named Cupid. New romances blossom, and old ones heat up again. A hot evening lies in wait for the unsuspecting. Capricorn: The best way to address any career issue is to pump lots of positive energy into your work. Turn obstacles into incentives and defeat into challenge. Your alternative is to have a miserable day. Aquarius: Your beliefs are mere­ly shadows from which to emerge into the bright light of knowledge. Anything is possible today. If you remain aloof from others, you will miss a lot. Pisces: Do not give more than you are willing to lose. Generosity is a kindness, not the law. It will be easier to tell someone "no" today than to break him of a bad habit later on. 

Wanted: Reporters, 
-
Grilled Salmon Fillet SevenGrain Tomato Bread Cut Green Beans 
s In a humble way 9 Poison-­
10 Book after Amos 
11 Bit of E-mail 
12 Hasp. areas 
14 Foolish 
18 Cairo's river 
22 Flexible, like some lamp shafts 23 "Scream" director Craven 25 Choreographer Alvin 
26 Big Apple subway stop, for short 
Puzzle by Peter Gordon 
28 Mine metal 29 Rebellious time 32 Casino 
machines • 35 Soldiers' 
"pineapples" 36 Quick swim 37 Raucous card 
game 38 Tiny Tim's instrument 39 August birthstone 42 Where Athens is 

LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS Friday, January 23, 1998 
7:00PM-4:00AM 
Joyce Center 
For More Info. Contact: RecSports-1-6100 www.nd.edu/-recsport 


SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, January 20, 1998 

• MEN's TENNIS 
Rothschild overcomes illness to give Irish victory 
By SHANNON RYAN match," Horsley joked. ''I'm just Sports Writer taking [the injury] day by day. I'm eager to get back." 
Some days a captain's shoul­The rest of the squad is just as ders just are not wide enough to eager to have Horsley back, if carry his team to victory. In not more so, as they lost three Notre Dame's season opener on straight in doubles competition. Saturday, Danny Rothschild The usually indestructible Brian proved that even when his Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski shoulders were slumped from a duo proved that they were 24-hour flu, he still had the indeed mortal as they fell to 
· strength and concentration to Minnesota's Tyson Parry and win when desperately needed. Martin Michalowski. After 
In what head coach Bob Patterson's serve was broken for Bayliss called "the most dramat­a second time, the Gopher pair ic of fashions," Rothschild bat­pulled away to an 8-5 victory. tled the flu, fatigue, a sprained "They volleyed with a lot of ankle and muscle tension to haul impatience," Bayliss said. "They the Irish to a 4-3 victory over made some fundamental rival host Minnesota. errors." 
ll As the last player on the court, Hesitation and further errors It the Irish depended on the ailing seemed to follow the rest of the Rothschild to break the 3-3 Irish doubles teams as
'] deadlock for its first win. After Rothschild and Matt Daly were vomiting behind a curtain, icing defeated 9-7, aod Ryan Sachire a sore neck and taping a twisted and Andy Warford were taken ankle during two injury time­out 8-6. outs, the 6-foot senior defeated "I was extremely disappointed Jorge Duenas in a gutsy display with our doubles," Bayliss com­of serving and volleying, 6-4, 5-mented. "They weren't aggres­7,6-4. sive enough, and they broke "Danny showed a tremendous down fundamentally." amount of courage,,. Bayliss After the Irish got the doubles said. "He essentially won the troubles out of their system, they match for us. It was one for the focused whole-heartedly on the ages." singles. Or maybe it was one because Sachire, last season's regional of the age. Rothschild's, that is. rookie of the year, easily took "As a captain, I think I acted the first set, 6-0, against differently than I would have a renowned Tom Chicoine before couple of years ago," Rothschild he suffered a slight lapse, 0-3, in said. ''I've never felt like that the second set. before or been sick during a "[Chicoine] raised his level of match. I think being an experi­play in the second set," Sachire enced player helped." said. "I made some careless Matt Horsley's notable mistakes before I tightened absence in doubles due to a things up." wrist injury kept him out of play. Sachire then left no loose nut, "They didn't miss me too The Observer/Brandon Candura much since they won the see TENNIS/ page 17 Captain Danny Rothschild gave the Irish a ·key win to lead his team to victory over Minnesota on Saturday. 
• fENCING 

Fencers hopeful in anticipation of spring season
I I I 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Stone, who finished in the top second in the under 20 competi­Sports Writer 35. The finishes turned in by the tion and ninth overall, Stephen
I 
I men's sabre squad were a key McQuade turned in a fine finish. 
The fencing team has been example of the importance this "He's just getting his f(~et wet," t! preparing for the all important tournament had in preparing the said LaValle. "But there is no il spring season since well before team. In addition to the fine play doubt he will give us depth as a 
the team's two fall season meets. of leaders Andrzcj Bednarski I I As the spring season began this and Luke LaValle, who finished see FENCING/ page 15 
( 
past weekend with the North American Cup, the team's goal was to continue its preparation. 
The focus on individual com~ petition gave the Irish much­needed practice for the impor­tant NCAA team meets that will begin this upcoming weekend against powerhouses Rutgers, Stanford, and St. John's. 
"The weekend's individual matchups were a good prepara­tion that the team needs for next weekend," commented head coach Yves Auriol. 
"The meet gave starters and their subs the chance to see the competition in action. That will be a real positive for the upcom­ing matches," said Carl Jackson, who finished 16th out of a field
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Notre Dame is optimistic about its upcoming spring season after hav­of 161 in men's epee. He was fol­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum

ing a successful fall. The campaign begins this weekend at Rutgers. lowed by fellow senior Brian The Irish fencing squad honed its skills at the North American Cup. 


f. 
Men's Basketball! 
vs. Syracuse,
! 
Jan. 21,9 p.m. 


Women's Basketball at Syracuse, Jan. 21,7 p.m. 
Hockey 

aJ •Women's swimming takes two
ar Bowling Green, Jan. 24, 7 p.m. 
~ 
see page 18
• .......
Swimming and Diving 
sc 
r/J • Super Bowl preparations
vs. Depauw, 

Jan. 30, 7:30p.m. 
see page 16 
~ 

! 
' 
r 
t 
I .
'. 







