
--~~-~--~-~--------~--~---~-~--------· 

Wednesday, March 25, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 113 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
NParly 250 members of the Notre Dame community came together at the FiPldhouse Mall yesterday to watch, lis­ten to and participate in a speak-out regarding the University's treatment of homosexuals. 
The event was sparked by the resigna­tion of Father David Garrick, a communi­cations and theater professor, who announced last week that he will be leav­ing the University because, as a celibate homosexual, he feels he is the object of disrrimination by the administration. 
More than 20 students and faculty, including Garrick, addressed the crowd. Their tones ranged from anger to frus­tration to hope for the future. Nearly all of them called on the community to work for greater acceptance of homosexuals and on the administration to create a legally binding anti-discrimination clause which would replace the "Spirit of Inclusion" statement enacted in September. 
The highlight of the event came with Father Garrick's speech. 
"Nobody has secure rights until every­one has equal rights," he said. "This applies to people we don't agree with in their outlook, ethnic background and 
-SENIOR ANDREA 0ESS 
sexual orientation." 
"We need to be proud of our minority sexuality and we need all of you of the majority sexuality who are gathered here," continued Garrick. "Without your help, we can't get equal rights." 
Garrick also affirmed his belief in the necessity of a non-discrimination clause, saying, "It is essential that the University teach about equal rights, and that they do this by giving equal rights to gay and lesbian students, faculty and staff." 
In a prayer offered at the start of the event, Garrick called for a "blessing on Notre Dame and Saint Mary's ... and that good fruit may come out of this, with equal rights for everyone." 
Other speakers concurred with Garrick on a number of these issues. 
"I came here because I support a non­discrimination clause and gay and les­bian rights at Notre Dame," said Gail Bederman, assistant professor of history. ''I'm proud to be a part of this University ... because of its belief in social justice. It is a disappointment and sadness to me that Notre Dame won't extend this belief to gays and lesbians." 
A number of speakers expressed frus­tration with the Spirit of Inclusion, a doc­ument which is "euphemistically named, to say the least," said graduate student 
see GARRICK I page 6 
O'Hara hosts listening session on multicultural issues 
Major concerns raised by students in last night's listening session with Prof. Patricia o•Hara. 
Lack of diversity in 
administrative positions 
The need for a top-down 
changeinthe administration concerning 
multicultural issues 
University policies on 
discrimination 

• Lack of diversity 
in the curriculum Handling of discriiTlinat charges by the Office of Residence Life 
The Observer/Jon King 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student Affairs, listened to concerned stu­dents, faculty and parents last night who feel the University's stance on diversity is inadequate. 
Before listening to the comments of stu­dents and faculty, O'Hara offered some personal reflection on diversity in student activities and residence life. 
"I think that the presence of under-rep­resented students here is critical," said O'Hara. "In a world that is shrinking, Notre Dame cannot be homogeneous." 
Audience members questioned the University's commitment to multicultural­ism, emphasizing the lack of persons of color in management positions as well as the handling of racial grievances. 
A repeated point by students was the failure to replace Kevin Warren, an African-American, since he left his posi­tion as assistant vice president for Student Affairs. Numerous individuals questioned how O'Hara could not have found a suitable replacement in several years' time and why she is not actively advertising for a replacement. 
"The only thing I can say about that is that I'm looking for a pretty unique per­son with a special blend of qualities," said O'Hara. "I've got extraordinarily high standards for upper-level positions. I'm always looking." 
"I think the frustration that a lot of us of color feel are that the only place you see people who look like us in a leadership position are in a role in a multi-cultural office," said senior Cavanaugh resident Qiana Lillard. "This has to be changed from the top down at the University. Sometimes it helps if a person has shared your experiences as a person of color." 
Another concern of students expressed was an unclearness about where to voice their grievances regarding racial discrim­ination and harassment. These problems are heightened by the lack of diversity and education about minorities in the University's curriculum. 
Sophomore Burgandie Montoya sug­gested revising the curriculum to include more multicultural books and courses, changing things so that the majority reaches out to the minority instead of vice versa, and making social situations better reflect minorities' interests. 
A final concern reflected on the place of homosexuals at Notre Dame, and why groups such as GLND/SMC are not offi­cially recognized. 
"In our University standards, as a Catholic university, we find it important that our student groups adhere to the Catholic mission," O'Hara responded. 
O'Hara asserted that GLND/SMC had stated, in a written statement to her office, "beliefs not aligned with the Church's teachings." Due in part to this fact, she denied the group recognition. 
O'Hara did provide concrete evidence of the work of the Office of Residence Life by passing out copies of a six-year retrospec­tive on multicultural programming. In addition, the members of the University Committee on Cultural Diversity distrib­uted an overview of the work done in their subcommittees. Copies of these doc­uments are available through the Office of Residence Life. 
Some goals which O'Hara has with regard to improving multiculturalism are: expanding the education process current­ly in place for rectors, assistant rectors, and resident assistants to include staff in all of her offices; increasing the percent­ages of rectors, assistant rectors, and res­ident assistants of color; increasing the number of multicultural events on cam­pus; and educating people about diversi­ty. 
·r-----p...ag·~·2---------~...--------------T-h-e~O-b-se-r-ve_r_•_I_N_S_ID-E----~--~~~~---Wednesday, March 25, 1998 

• INSIDE COLUMN 



A Lagging 'Spirit' 
"""":=~~~
Well, it happened. 
Father David Garrick on Thursday became the first victim or the !laws in the University's "Spirit of Inclusion." less than seven months al'tPr that statement was originally mleased. 
(;arriek rnsignnd in protest of the University's Brad Prendergast rnfusalto provide homo-Senior Sratl"Wrirer 


sexuals with explicit legal protection from discrimination. 
Garrick said his protest. resulted from his own encounter with the University's non-discrimina­tion clause, which fails to include sexual orienta­tion. lin announced that he had been suspended de facto from his Eucharistie and eonfessional ministries at the Basilica of the Sacred lleart bm:ause of his snxual orientation. 
Father John Jenkins, a mligious superior at the Basilica. has since said that "Father Garrick has always had and continues to have full faeul­tins to preside at the Eucharist and hear confes­shms, or perform any other priestly ministry, wherever he is invited." 
The curious aspect of that response is the dause at the end: "wherever he is invitnd." Quite simply, that's the problem. In the last year and a half, Garrick, as he stated in a letter to the editor published in The Observer last Thursday, has not been invited to say Mass or hear confessions. A once busy ministry has since grown dormant. 
Yes. resignation is generally considered to be a voluntary act, and, yes, Garrick has not been spncifieally harassed since he made his orienta­tion public. But if Garrick, who by all accounts is an excellent priest and professor, feels he must resign because the environment he is in pre­vents him from performing the duties of his life­long occupation, then something is wrong. The "Spirit of lndusion," whieh was supposedly crafted in order to prevent people like Garrick from feeling unwelcome, has failed. 
At a rally organized to support Garrick yester­day, Kristine Boeke, a graduate student, said, "I want to have hope and believe that no one [in the administration] would discriminate against homosexuals. But I'd believe it more if they'd pass [the sexual orientation revision to] the non­diserimination clause." 
Exactly. 
Garrick's rnsignation dearly illustrates the error in the University's bnlief that the "Spirit of Inclusion" would cover the gaps left behind by the limits of the non-diserimination dause. The clause was limited because of a concern that society's courts would interpret sexual orienta­tion more broadly than the Catholic Church defines it. but such a fear eould have been allayml by rnvising the clause to include "sexual orientation as defined by the Catholic Church." 
In fact, the revision <:an still be made. 
The person of Garrick plays an interesting role in the debate over how the University actually treats homosexuals. As a Catholic priest, and therefore celibate, Garrick !its perfeetly into the slim eategory that discussion of Church doctrine has ereated: he is a homosexual who is guaran­teed not to engage in homosexual acts. If he had been embraced by the University administration aft1~r he had announeed to the public his orien­tation two years ago, the University would have demonstrated that it was able to practice what the "Spirit of Inclusion" preached: that we at Notre Dame arn called to "create an environ­ment of mutual respect ... in which none are strangers and all may flourish." 
Apparently, the administration believes that "respeet" means shrugging aside and conve­niently ignoring the victim until he feels sulli­ciently unwelcome, sufliciently excluded. 
It's hardly a spirit of inclusion. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Laura Petelle  Kristi Klicsch  
Christine Kraly  Sarah Dylag  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Sports  Jon King  
Brian Kessler  Production  
Viewpoint  Dan Cichalski  
Tara Churik  Lab Tech  
Jeff Hsu  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday <hrough Friday ~xc~pr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Disgruntled student sues school over medical problems 
PRINCETON, N.J. 
also said the steroids have eausml an 
Former graduate student Jim Connell otherwise inactive brain cyst to grow, is suing Princeton University for 60 the cartilage on his knees to detnriorate counts ranging from personal injury to and his stomach to erode, resulting in criminal negligence, citing several years regular bloody vomiting. of ignored complaints regarding his res­According to Connell's onicial com­idential housing and laboratory condi­plaint. the university also made several tions while studying neuropsychology. attempts to deny him his student status. 
Among other grievances, Connell Connell said these attempts included aecusnd the university of providing "liv­aecusations of general harassment and ing quarters which were dangerous, sexual harassment as well as a falla­flooded and moldy," causing him to cious assertion that he was failing sta­develop a dangerous lung condition Housing associate director Harold tistics. Connell said his professor told called aspergillosis, according to the Szenes refused to comment on him hn would pass the eoursn if he did complaint he filed last year. In addition. Connell's allegations. The university's well on the final exam. Connell "had to perform research in a legal representative in the case, Peter Connell also said in the complaint laboratory that was undergoing McDonough, was unavailable for com­that he was left without medieal insur­asbestos removal and lacked a func­ment, according to the university coun­ance after the university terminatlld his tioning fume hood," according to the sel office. student status. "As of, on or about May same document. Aspergillosis, a disease that involves 16, 1997, my knees are so bad from 
Further. Connell said in the document mold growing in the lungs, can be deteriorating cartilage, that I have to tlmt his repeated requests for improved cured only through daily high-level have surgery this summer ... I do not living conditions were ignored by the doses of steroids for a prolonged period know what I will do to take earn of mv housing department. of time, Connell said in an e-mail. He health problems." · 
• SAM HOUSTON STATE UNIVERSITY • IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Officials probe food-poisoning scare Students plead guilty to misdemeanor 
HOUSTON AMES, Iowa 
Students at Sam Houston State University returned to At the start of spring semester, many Iowa Staters campus Monday to safe dining services after an outbreak were shocked to discover that a fellow student and his of possible food poisoning that left approximately 125 stu­friend were charged with taking part in a staged shoot­dents ill and hospitalized before the break. The students ing during semester break. ISU students Matthew Nels went to Huntsville Memorial Hospital and to the student Bergman and Timothy James Hedden, of Odebolt. health center between March 10 and 13, complaining of pleaded guilty on Monday, March 16, to various symptoms such as vomiting, stomach cramps and diar­charges. including reckless usc of a firearm causing rhea. symptoms often associated with food poisoning. On bodily injury. The men were originally charged with March 11. the hospital notified the Huntsville city health reckless use of a firearm causing serious injury, which inspector of a possible outbreak. All the students who is a class C felony and carries a maximum Hl-year were hospitalized were released by noon on March 15. No prison term. The duo plea-bargained, and the new conclusive evidence has been presented yet that Aramark, charges are a class D felony with a five-year maximum the food service provider for both SHSU and the University prison term. In addition to the firearm charges, both of Houston, is at fault. The Department of Health and the men pleaded guilty to aggravated assault, an aggravat­Center for Disease Control are, along with Aramark, con­ed misdemeanor and filing a false report with police, a ducting an investigation into the cause. serious misdemeanor. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA • YALE UNIVERSITY 
Protesters rally against Nike with film Sexual harassment conference draws crowd 
PHOENIX NEW IIAVEN, Conn. 
UA protesters opposing a pending athletic depart­The sexual harassment eonference held before spring ment contract with Nike spoke with labor rights advo­break at Yale Law School was supposed to be an acadnmic cate Michael Moore last week and previewed his new affair, celebrating the origins and sketching the future of documentary, which negatively portrays the company's sexual harassment law. But current affairs intervened. With chief executive officer. The March 16 preview. at allegations of sexual misconduct enguHing the White I louse Harkins Christown Theater, was sponsored by the and the Supreme Court's decision to hear four sexual Phoenix chapter of Arizona Jobs with Justice. It includ­harassment cases this year, sexual harassment has once ed an appearance by Moore, the former host of the again emerged a hot button national issue. Students, acade­alternative news show "TV Nation," who answered mics, and the media attended the confenmee, some drawn audience members' questions after the film. by the presence of Catharine MacKinnon, who presented "Originally, we had hoped to have the film shown at the opening remarks. Twenty years ago MacKinnon, now a Gallagher Theatre," said graduate student James noted law professor, produced her groundbreaking work. Tracy, co-founder of the University of Arizona chapter "Sexual Harassment of Working Women," which began the of Students Against Sweatshops. Tracy said Moore's process of defining sexual harassment law. "I wanted to film tour is timely because UA is negotiating a multi­hear MacKinnon," said a Chinese history graduate student million-dollar deal with Nike that would provide who attended the opening remarks. She said MacKinnon's swoosh-laden athletic apparel to the university's 18 speech would be a deciding factor in whether she attended Division I sports teams. the rest of the conference. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Wednesday, March 25. 
AccuWeather®forecasl for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
t·,.....-'r-----··.........................., H L ! 
Wednesday8, Thursday (f 72 47 Friday ~' 67 54 


FRONTS: 
............_
..........--.-...-a-.r


Satu~~ay ~f 65 ,46 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
A
H L Ea ESI ITI] 0 [Zj 8 i) eJ. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STOAMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

Sun~ay "~ 65 45 
V1a Assoaatad Press
\}'-'\l''' ,,..,f"''-'.) 
Atlanta 82 59 Dallas 80 62 Memphis 76 55 Baltimore 52 38 Fresno 66 47 New York 50 42 Boise 57 36 Helena 54 32 Orlando 78 58

4,~,~9.Q.Q(f ~ u 
Chicago 64 28 Hoboken 51 40 Phoenix 80 55

Showers r:storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assocfatsd Press GraphicsNet 
Columbus 57 48 Las Vegas 68 48 Tuscan 83 53 



page 3 
' 

omens ews 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
PORNOGRAPHY AND FREEDOM OF SPEECH 



Obscenity definition remains unclear 

portrays sex on equal terms, valu­
ing all participants, then it would
In 1985, the city of Indianapolis 
be protected by the First
enacted an ordinance that prohibit­
Amendment.

ed pornography on the grounds that 
Anti-pornography advocates
its very nature discriminated 
assert that the First Amendment
against women. The ordinance 
does not protect slander, false
went all the way to the Supreme 
advertising, or perjury.

Court, challenging thr, traditional 
Indianapolis justified the ordi­
understanding of pornography and 
nance because of the negative
the obscene. The Supreme Court 
effects that pornography has on
accepted the evidence that pornog­
women. The drafters believed that
raphy could be harmful to women 
pornography affects thoughts and
in its objective nature, but conclud­
therefore, it socializes society to
ed that the harms to women were 
see women as subordinate or place
outweighed by the need to protect 
value on women based solely on
First Amendment speech rights. 

For the Indianapolis ordinance, 
construed sexual identities. 
pornography is "the sexually explic­
Robinson articulates the legal 
problems of this belief. 

it subordination of women, whether 
in pictures or words, that also 
"Pornography is a huge industry. 
There is an enormous market out
includes one or more of the follow­
there with singularly vile material,
ing: (1) Women are presented as 

Book vendors, artists, lawyers ponder censorship issues 
By ANNE SCHNEEMAN 
Women's Page Editor 
Even though recent studies assert that the majority of Americans fail to see genuine value in pornography, it remains a dubious and ever-growing part of American culture. The dis­pute over pornography and censorship has split not only the conservative thinkers but also liberal and feminist viewpoints. 
Controversy stems from what many groups think are dis­putable definitions of obscenity and pornography. In 1975, Miller v. California set the precedent that defined obscenity as "appealing to the prurient interest, must contain patently offen­sive depiction or descriptions of specified sexual conduct, and on the whole have no serious literary, artistic or political, or sci­entific value." 
sexual objects who enjoy pain or humiliation: (2) Women are presented as sexual objects who experir,nce sexual pleasure in being raped: (3) Women are pre­sented as sexual objects tied up or cut up or mutilated or bruised or physically hurt, or as dismembered or truncated or fragmented or severed into body parts: (4) Women are present­ed as being penetrated by objects or animals: (5) Women are presented in scenarios of degradation. injury or torture ... or (6) Women are presented as sexual objects for domination, eon­quest. violation. exploitation, possession, or use, or through postures or positions of servility or submission or display." 
In the ordinance, the words "men, children or transsexual" could be substituted for women. The legal problems developed out of the fact that the ordinance regulated content and speeif­ie depiction, not judgment of the work on the whole. The court condudPd that the government must leave the people to r,valu­ate ideas. because onee the government begins legislating what is inherently good or bad, the whole system breaks down. 
"One of the things that separates our society [from others] is our absolute right to propagate opinions that the government finds wrong or even hateful," said John Robinson, a Notre Dame associate professor of law. 
Indianapolis was not concerned with literary, artistic, politi-
By LISA MAXBAUER 
Women's News Writer 
With freedom comes respon­sibility. Erotica and obscenity, forms of free expression that challenge the borders of pornography, are as difficult to define as they are to regulate. Yet the burden of regulation cannot be abandoned solely to the eye of the beholder. Promoters of controversial materials must assume the responsibilities their expression may create within their commu­nities. 
Protests against nude artistic expression have recently hit the world's largest bookstore chain. The Barnes & Noble Booksellers were accused of selling child pornography this year. The Age of Innocence, a book by photog­rapher David Hamilton, became the center of an Alabama grand jury indictment of the book­store. 
The book is a pictorial collec­tion of young girls whom Hamilton photographed in the nude. Hamilton does not under­stand why there is so much con­troversy surrounding his book. He explained, "Pornography is a word that's not in my vocabu­lary. It is erotica. I will stand by 

that." 
Hamilton assured that his "naturalist" subjects had no objections to par­ticipating in nude artistic expression. 
According to Hamilton, the only objections were among Anglo-Saxons, but 

"Latinas and Scandinavians don't have a problem with it." Other sources attribute the ini­tial protest of the book resulted from complaints by Christian activists. 
Even amid all the commotion surrounding Hamilton's work, the $45 book is selling out of New York City bookstores as fast as the shelves can be stocked. This may explain why 
'poRNOGRAPHY IS A WORD THAT'S NOT IN MY VOCABULARY. IT IS EROTICA. I WILL STAND BY THAT.' 
cal, or scientific value in a work that depicted women in degrad­ing and humiliating situations. The Supreme Court overruled the Indianapolis ordinance stating that restriction of non­obscene material is a violation of First Amendment rights. 
Activists are currently searching for avenues to protect both free speech and women's rights. Advocates of feminism and free speech assert that all people's rights can be protected if the display of explicit sex is neither degrading nor dehumanizing and is nonviolent in nature. The belief allows for even very explicit or non-traditional sex without infringing upon the rights of women. 
Katherine MacKinnon, one of the authors of the Indianapolis ordinance, believes that it is possible to be sexually explicit without depicting the subjugation of women. If the pornography 
but the courts cannot legally legis­late the content of pornography without mandating ideas about sexuality." 
Attorney Christopher Toth, a candidate for prosecuting attor­ney, discussed the myth that obscenity is protected by the Constitution. "People forget that there is no First Amendment right that protects obscenity -pornography can be driven out legally. One option is launching a crackdown on prostitution and public intoxication, and an assault on sex-oriented business areas. If we can destroy or seriously hurt the clientele, then we affect the industry." 
Toth also described the cycle that is usually involved in sex­oriented business areas. "If you look at South Michigan Street, you can clearly see that urban decay drives a vicious cycle. First of all. reputable business won't move in so the buildings remain vacant. The neighborhood gets more run down, more sex-ori­ented business move in and crime rises even more." 
Crime rate seems to be clearly linked with inherently sexual businesses. In the early 1990s, Oklahoma City eliminated 150 sexually oriented businesses and the rape rate declined over 27 percent in the next five-year period. During that same time, rape in the rest of the state continued to rise over 19 percent. 
see OBSCENITY I page 4 
Hamilton's Web site names him "the most popular artist the world has ever seen." 
The Mishawaka Barnes & Noble and other local book­stores do not have The Age of Innocence in stoek right now. However, these local stores are 
DAV/D HAMILTON, PHOTOGRAPHER 
willing to order the book for any interested customers. 
Maureen Gleason, deputy director of the Hesburgh Library, noted that the University of Notre Dame library is careful what materials graee its shelves. She described the process through which the University chooses which books to purchase, stating that "most books are suggested by faculty 

Rarely does Notre Dame expe­rience a complaint that the library is housing inappropriate materiaL "When it does, we talk to the person voicing the com­plaint and explain to them the reason that particular book is present," Gleason said. The University does not remove crit­icized literature from the shelves, and "avoids exercising censorship," she confirmed. 
members or by subject librari­ans." She also confirmed that a book's acceptance depends on whether "it supports a class, [is] 
intellectually stimulating,  [or)  
would  be  required  for  
research."  

Gleason did not feel that any 
of the material in the library would be consid­ered pornographic. "This is an academic institution supporting trained minds who can investigate for themselves the appropri­
ateness of a certain sub­ject matter, not children." 
K. Johnson Bowles, a local artist and instructor at Saint Mary's College, has been accused of creating porno­graphic works. According to Bowles, her art honestly por­trays issues about domestic vio­lence and sexuality in a femi­nist, autobiographical manner. Since her work deals with sensi­tive issues, it uncovers very pas­sionate emotions in audiences. 
However, Bowles fully under­stands the responsibilities that accompany her freedoms. "Artists have ingrained this idea into the public that they can say whatever they want, and not be responsible for it," Bowles said, "but that's not true." 
Bowles' work was protested in 1993 during an exhibition at Ohio University. These pieces portrayed her own nude body to communicate "health issues and body perception" Bowles said. 
see ISSUES I page 4 





Living Together &Thinking Together 
A GENDER STUDIES CRITICAL ISSUES ROUNDTABLE 
page 4 
Issues 
continued from page 3 
She never thought they were about pornography. "They did­n't have anything to do with the act of' sex land it frustrated Bowles that) people did not take tho time to understand or sec the ditl'erence," she said. 
Bowles explained that "art should challenge, but not turn anyone into an object of humil­iation." She decided that, as an artist, "it is so important to keep tho lines of communica­tion open." 
Bowles believes that when people creatP. art that is con­troversial. "it is ltheirl rnspon­sibility to be prepared to respond" to those individuals who question their motives. 
Bowles praised art as a tool "which allows a dialogue to be established about subjects that would othcrwisP. be hard to talk about." 
Ann Trask. a visual arts instructor at the University of Houston, supported Bowles' work through thP. protest. Trask explained that the "pri­mary function of' art is to mir­ror society." 
"Society is not required to like what they see in the mir­ror, or even look into the mir­ror. Institutions and individu­als who only follow the popular wishes of society an~ not being leaders but sheep." Trask said. 
The local chapter of the Women's Caucus for Art (WCA) formally stated the responsi-
The Observer • WOMEN'S NEWS 
bilities artistic expression more controversial pieces than text assured that "expressive require. the Snite or Moreau galleries," conduct is also given substan­
The WCA has always main­she said. tial protection by the courts," tained their claim to be Hundquist also has a respon­within the regulation of our "unyielding in its advocacy of sibility to the public because constitutional right to symbolic the individual's freedom of the museum is open to all ages. speech. The United States gov­expression." Their Board of The Regional Museum is not a ernment may place restric­Directors has urged each of its children's museum so tions "only when they are nec­members to "judge the man­Rundquist does not reject cer­essary to protect other sub­ner in which she may best tain material merely because it stantial interests and rights." express her concerns, her per­contains adult content. Lawyers for the defendants ceptions, and her understand­However, young tour groups in Miller v. Civil City of South ing of the world around her." do visit the museum regularly, Bend argued that "the 
Leisa Hundquist, the curator and Rundquist has a standing Constitution does not place the at the South Bend Hegional alternative plan. "I structured freedom of expression above Museum, explained that the shows according to the tour all other values." museum understands its duty route so that the most con­The activities which to the public to handle contro­frontational pieces do not occurred within the confines of versial art work responsibly. appear first," Rundquist com­the Kitty Kat Lounge were not As curator. Rundquist investi­mented. the only concern addressed in gates an "artist's intentions" A trend appearing in many this battle. when considering whether art museums throughout the The night club would have to controversial content will be nation is the placement of dis­be made aware, and responsi­shown in the museum's gal­claimers to prepare audiences ble, for possible negative leries. for works portraying contro­affects its form of controversial 
Art work that is sexual in versial messages. The expression could have on the nature has been the main sub­Regional Museum is presently community beyond the estab­ject matter with which the featuring a collection which lishment walls. museum needs to be careful. contains a disclaimer due to One complaint was that 
Hundquist also noted that the presence of nudity in the "striptease dancing in bars "when artists question the sta­artwork. stimulates and facilitates pros­tus quo land] remind people of Symbolic expression that titution." Under this claim, the their difl'erences, the public challenges the abstract defini­right of artistic expression was gets upset." tions of pornography is not not as important as protecting 
Hundquist tries to "keep in limited to visual materials. It the community from further mind South Bend land] what can also be categorized in ges­criminal or lewd conduct. the community can digest." tures and movements. In whatever form controver­She admits that larger and In 1990, a South Bend night sial expression may exist. free­more diverse environments in club caught national attention doms do not allow people to "New York or Los Angeles when the Supreme Court chal­act recklessly. Individuals who would be able to show differ­lenged its definitions of artistic create and promote artistic ent material due to the cos­expression. Darlene Miller and expression must be aware and mopolitan climate." JR's Kitty Kat Lounge fought held accountable for the con­
However, the South Bend for women's rights to perform sequences of their actions. Regional Museum displays the nude dancing in front of their This duty of responsibility most liberal shows in the local patrons. should be as unguarded as the area. "We are allowed to show The West's Business Law subject matter they express. 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 


PANEL MEMBERS: 
Kathie Newman 
Associate Dean, College of Science 
Eileen Kolman 
Dean, First Year of Studies 
John Borkowski 
Andrew J. McKenna Chair, Psychology 
Melanie Deford 
Asst. Professional Specialist, Chern. & Biochem. 
Katie Beirne 
Senior, Student Government Moderator: 
Kathleen Biddick 
Director of Gender Studies 
WEDNESDAY MARCH25 4:30PM 202 DEBARTOLO 


All ARE WElCOME! 
AND THE
BROUGHT TO YOU THROUGH THE EFFORTS OF: 
UNIVERSITY COMMITTEE ON
student government WOMEN & STUDENTS 

Wednesday, March 25, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq arrests weapons official 
UNITED NATIONS 
Iraq has told the United Nations that a senior official in Baghdad's biological weapons program was arrested trying to flee the country, a U.N. official said today. The New York Times, quoting Iraq's U.N. Ambassador Nizar Hamdoon, said Nassir al­Hindawi is in an Iraqi prison after he was found with documents relating to the coun­try's biological weapons program and evi­dence that he was about to leave Iraq illegal­ly. The newspaper quoted unidentified Western diplomats as saying Hindawi had a forged passport. Ewen Buchanan, a spokesman for the U.N. Special Commission, said Iraq notified the United Nations a few weeks ago of its elaim that Hindawi was arrested and turned over documents. "which were nothing we had not already seen." 
FBI agent claims conspiracy in King assassination 
ATLANTA 
After 30 years of silence, a former FBI agent said Tuesday that papers he took from James Earl Hay's car after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. support claims of a conspiracy. Donald Wilson, who worked in the FBI's Atlanta office when King was slain in 1968, showed copies of the documents Tuesday to Fulton County District Attorney Paul Howard. Wilson claimed to have found an envelope in Hay's ear containing two pieces of paper with the name "Haul" written on them. Hay contends he was set up by a shadowy gunrunner named Raoul, a man whose existence has never been verified. 
Harvard cancels Holocaust studies programs 
BOSTON 
More than three years after Harvard received a $3 million pledge to create a chairmanship in Holocaust studies, the University has been unable to agree on a candidate. and about half of the gift has been quietly diverted to the medical school. The impasse apparently resulted from academic infighting over how to teach the I Iolocaust: as a study of Jewish victims and Judaic cul­ture. or as a historical analysis of the Nazi perpetrators. The candidacy of Daniel Goldhagen, an associate Harvard professor, also disturbed some members of the search committee. Goldhagen's controversial 1996 best-selling book-. "Hitler's Willing Executioners: Ordinary Germans and the Holocaust," contends that ordinary Germans, not just the Nazis, were responsible for the killing of 6 million Jews. 

Composite1105.10 Volume: 
+9.55 605,500,000
+88.19 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMI!a~:a:: IICRs;EB ·~~ cuat:Uif. i "~Irs l!BICE 
CELLPO INC CRPO 57.69% 1.875 5.125 AVATEX COR I' AAV so.oo•M1 0.750 2.250 CLEAN DIESEL CDTI 36.671lfl 0.687 2.562 GLOBAL MOTOSPRT CSTM 3Q.7QI)•IJ 4.375 18,625 BELL TECIINOl. • WTS BELTW JU.4-J1)\'I 0.875 3.750 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
COLDWATER CREEK CWTR ·29.081l'il -11.125 27.125 NEOPHARM INC· WTS i'iPRMW ·26.09% ·0.750 2.125 VI5X INC VISX ·22.41% ·6.500 22.500 ~INDOCINO BREWING MBR ·21.74% -0.625 2.250 tNTELUGENT ME.O IMII -19.17% -0.7\B ~.03\ 
• YUGOSlAVIA 

Villagers flee Kosovo violence 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 

GLAMOC 
Fierce clashes between Serb police and ethnic Albanians in Kosovo province sent scared villagers fleeing Tuesday from the rattle of machine­gunfire and the boom of grenade and roc~et launchers. One policeman was reported killed. 
The new outbreak of violence, which authorities say began when Albanian separatists with mortars ambushed a police patrol, came on the eve of a conference where the United States was to press strongly for sanctions against Yugoslavia for police repression in Kosovo. 
Villagers say heavily armed Serb police surrounded four hamlets in western Kosovo and moved in, launching an action that resembled a Feb. 28 crackdown which left about 80 Albanians dead and prompted an international outcry over alleged human rights violations. 
The main party for ethnic Albanians, who outnumber Serbs in Kosovo province nine to one, said it was not known whether there were any Albanian casualties. But the Democratic League of Kosovo spoke of a "dramatic" situation and appealed for international help against "Serb aggression." 
The clashes also coincided with the clearest signal yet from the leader of Kosovo's Albanians that he was will­ing to enter into talks with the Serbs on the southern province's future. 
Serb state television, in a brief com­mentary Tuesday night, said the new "terrorist attack" was intended to undermine the prospects for Serb­Albanian talks. 
The Yugoslav news agency Tanjug said one policeman was killed and several were injured after a regular police patrol was ambushed near the Kosovo village of Rzic. 
The fighting occurred down the dusty track leading from nearby Glamoc, a village of 10 houses 25 miles west of Kosovo's capital of Pristina, toward four Albanian ham­lets that were reportedly surrounded by police. 
B.oys kill Jour d ng fals.e fire alarm 

.AssociATED PIUlSs two bqys, ~e·~~trig ····~tmouflage s.hirt$y pants
JONESBORO, Ark; 

•. and hats, were caught near
Two<boys in camouflage 

·. the schooL Officer Terry
lay in wait in the W()Od$ 

McNatt said they offered· no
behind · a school, then 

resistance and said little.
op~ned fire with rifles o.n 

Two .• rifles 
students and 

and >other
when they came o false tlre alarm 

-~r ... 
boys.... ~ere being held at ·..•..•• ·....· the co.unty PARAMElild CHARLES JONES jaiL
•·.···· ···• · · ·• · · Authorities wouldn't say were students 
.·rooms. She ti"'(lout.sitle.and "saw girls falling to the ground." .. · 
''I helped on.e teacher whO had been shot in the abdomen get out of there where she could lay down and we could st11rt medical attention,;···Mrs: Pate said. "Another stu(,}~_.iit had got shQt in ~11~ 1¢g; A~ soon.·a5 she got hit; *.he (iouldn't walk and she fe1l>into the doorway." 
President Clinton, on a visit to Kampala, Uganda, said in a statement that he and the first lady were "deeply shocked and heart­broken." 
"We d •• now and 
•we.may. n ly under,;, 
·· stand what ld have dri­ven two youths Jo deliber­ately shoot into a • crowd,'' he said. · 



z FORMER SECRETARY OF LABOR 
Ill A }

VVOI11et1 Wt fhe Workplace 11 
<C 


(Basement of the Snite)
z Sponsored by: 
The Notre Dame Council z on International Business Development 
Garrick 
continued from page 1 
John Blandford. Many stated that the document. which is not legally binding, does little to eliminate discrimination at Notre Dame. 
"I want to have hope and believe that no one [in the administration] would discrimi­nate against homosexuals," stated graduate student Kristine Boeke. "But I'd believe it more if they'd pass the non­discrimination dause." 
The speaker recalled a recent conversation with University President Emeritus Father Theodore Ilesburgh, whom she said would support the dause. 
"If only our current pr11sident could have the courage to do the same," Boeke said. 
"The Spirit of Inclusion is just paper words, it means nothing," said former history professor Lawrence Bradley. "The Univnrsity didn't want to be held legally accountable for its discrimination." 
Many of the participants called upon students to keep pressuring the University in its efl'orts to efl'eet change. 
"A university is supposed to bP a place of acceptance. If we can force the administration to do what's right on the non-dis­crimination clause, then it will be better for all of us," said freshman Shannon Vieth. 
"We must continue to show the administration that our creed is one of faith, compas­sion, liberation and justice," said graduate student Micheal Deemer, who related his own tale of coming to understand homosexuality during experi­enees with a lesbian reverend. 
"People say homosexuality is queer, but it is homophobia that is queer and sick and has to be cured," declared graduate stu­dent Besty Erbaugh. "Notre Dame's homophobia is what needs to be cured." 
In this vein of activism, it was announced that a teach-in on gay and lesbian rights and issues will be held next Thursday at the Center for Social Coneerns. 
At one point in the rally, sophomore Colleen Gaughen spoke while holding up the most reeent copy of Right Reason. One article in it, by controver­sial psyehiatrist Joseph Nicolosi 

Wednesday, March 25, 1998

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
The Notre Dame College of Business Administration and the Department of Marketing invite you to attend 
who has lectured at Notre Dame, proposed that homosex­uality is a "psychological disor­der" caused by emotional dis­tress that can and should be cured. 
Gaughen and others proceed­ed to light the newspaper on fire. 
In response, freshman Sean Vinck, who had been distribut­ing the publication, declared "We need to read, and to edu­cate, not to burn papers." 
Some students challenged those who consider homosexu­ality to be a disorder. Deemer asked, "I admire [Vinck's] courage ... but who's creating the emotional distress, who's creating the problem for these people?" 
"I don't hate anybody. I stand for morality and decency, and I think that's what all Catholics should stand for ... The people at the rally were not.there for discussion, they were forward­ing a radical political agenda and want to legitimize deviant sexual behavior," Vinek said later. 
Speakers voiced support for Garrick in this time of his resig­nation. 
"How come this person, lead­ing a chaste life as a celibate priest, is not being given what the Catholic Church says he should be by this 'Catholic' University?" asked sophomore Laura Flate. 
"People talk about the Notre Dame family. Families give love, support. They don't judge," said senior Andrea Oess, after read­ing a letter signed by 70 theater students. "This family loves you more than you'll ever know." 
The event, sponsored by The College Democrats. the Progressive Students' Allianee, GLND/SMC and the Women's Resource Center, was considc 

with SRB and the Women's Resource Center 
> f~t \li~,t~ ff ViAfffJtS ,., ~tt f~tv~lvt~ 
www.nd.eduf,..,ndcibd 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC Junior Moms' weekend begins Friday 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
The planning of the eekend Sainr Mary's News Editor began in Septemb r and, according to Campbell, the 12 
This Friday marks the begin­women of the committe have ning of Junior Moms' weekend been working diligently on this at Saint Mary's College. The event and are excited about committee in charge of the seeing it unfold this weekend. weekend selected the theme Students' mothers are wel­"Always" and have planned of the biggest with the juniors come to attend classes on 
several events for the mother­and their mothers in atten­Friday. From 5 to 7:30 p.m., daughter duos. dance," said junior Colleen the women will gather in As of Monday, organizers Campbell, member of the junior Stapleton lounge for a wine and said 410 people had registered, class board and chairwoman of cheese party. Professors from surpassing the expected 300 this event. all departments at Saint Mary's for the event. "This is definitely a much have been invited and are 
"Although past years have higher turnout than there has encouraged to attend. had large turnouts, this year been in the past, and that is a Hotel Prati, the Saint Mary's has definitely proven to be one wonderful thing to have." campus band which consists of 
GET RID OF YOUR OlD SHOES... 
'


'I 
I 
,I 

student government 
The Problem;. Old Shoes. 
The Solution;. Turn 'em into something else. 
Student Government and Nike are collecting used or unwanted athletic shoes of any brand, and then we're going to grind them up and give them new life as athletic surfaces and Nike products 
The Goal. 
To collect 2000 pairs of shoes...the number needed to make an entire Reuse-A-Shoe basketball court. 
Collection Sites: 
• 
Residence Halls •Turtle Creek(#1638) 

• 
Hesburgh Library •Campus View(# 1828) 

• 
Loftus •Lafayette (# 16) 

• 
Rockne •Rolfs Rec Center 

• 
Decio • Stu. Govt.(203 Lafun) 



four women and one male stu­dent, will perform for the event. 
"We are really excited about Hotel Prati playing at this event," Campbell stated. 
On Saturday the women are invited to Capello Salon to receive a day of rejuvenation. Facials, manicures,. make-up applications, as well as haircuts and styles will be available. Additionally, a bus will be pro­vided for a trip of shopping at the Michigan City Outlet Mall. 
Following the day's events, evening activities will begin with a mass held at the Church of Loretto. As the last event of the weekend, cocktails a~:d din­ner will be served at the Windsor Park Convention Center. President Marilou Eldred and the senior officers will be present. 
"There will be two brief speeches prior to dinner ... and a prayer will follow," Campbell said. 
"Colleen has done a really great job preparing for this weekend," junior Charise Desmarteau said. "We are very proud of her and are looking forward to this weekend and all that it has to offer." 
arketing passion 
the customer, and being able to recognize customers' needs, desires and beliefs. However, he did say that then! is not always an insight and people should not try to invent orie, §ingett;aid t~at t):).e~e ~s adver­
• tising that ispJ,>ti~~~~~kht:tSed.
•..·Singer cited ~re$tt~othpaste ar;;. an example ill the impor­tance of insight in·advertising. Insight occurred when the company realized, that people didn't know how to judge toothpaste efficacy, but trusted the American Dental Association [ADA]. Since then. the tooth past(! and the ADA have collp.horat~donthe prod­uct packaging, • .... .. . . . 
Singer· also noted Bill Gates as someone who had insight. 
"He realized that the· future of computing was software, not hardware," he said. 
Singer used Skittles candy, which he referred to as ''per­verted M&M's," to show how insight can increase sales. The nflw ads for .the company, which led to a 42 percent increase in sales; feature con­trol and fantasy, both ele­ments which appeal to teenagers. 
In closing, Singer reiterated the theme of his lecture. 
"Do whatever it is you .choose to do,ff Singer said, ~because it is a place for \>Vbich you havereal passion, a pl~ce where you can add value, a place to exert true leadership and a place to be fueled by insights." 

A REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE CSC WED., MARCH 25 12-9 p.m AND THURS., MARCH 26 FROM 8 a.m. -NOON PLEASE STOP BY TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE A V PROGRAM! 
WE WILL HOLD AN INFORMATION SESSION AT THE CSC AT 7 p.m. ON MARCH 25 
Apostolic Volunteers (708) 524-5984 maryanop@aol. com WWW. Sinsinawa.org 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998

page 8 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Finance Forutn 
The Finance Club welcomes 

to discuss issues concerning: 
• 
the role derivatives play in and on exchanges 

• 
the impact of the Asian Crisis on Asian and U.S. banking sectors 


-President and CEO of National Futures Association -Member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees -Former President and CEO of Chicago Board of Trade -Chairman of LaSalle National Corporation 
"Wednesday, March 5, 1998 
4:30 p.m. 
C.C.E. Auditorium 
All undergraduate and MBA students welcome to attend. 
Wednesd.ay, March 25: 1998 ~~ ~~~The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Lutter bach: Some job skills cannot be learned in class 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
Associate News Editor 
Today at 4:30 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium, Hick l.utterbach will share his knowledge and experiences at a lecture entitled "Instincts of an Entrepreneur." 

• 
Lutterbach believes that the best way to learn is through experience and, with a resume that includes advertising for Bud Light. Nike and Ameritech, few know as much about entrepreneurship than he. 
Lutterbach is a founder and 
being from 

partner of the Leap Group. an ad firm with an impressive list of clients. He believes that, while classroom education is essential, real world experi­ence is equally invaluable, especially in a business world that is becoming increasingly ruthless. 
a democratic 


society, you have many choices. many ways to express yourself and your beliefs. many ways to make a change. you can join a militia. you can erect a barbed wire Fence around your property. you can declinP to 
vote. you can get a bumpersticker. call your local d.j. and vent. 
e • you can enroll in the Graduate School of Political Management, the premier school for politics. And make a REAL difference. 
TheGraduate GS ~M[
School of . ' Political Management ">-fi 
Alternathte Medicine: Past, Present &Future 
Weds. March 25th 180 NSH 7:00pm 
Discussing the Status & Future ofAlternative Medicine 

"A career in business pro­duces good scars and bad scars. In my lecture, I'll be imparting some wisdom that can save them from some of the bad things," Lutterbach said. 
''I'll share with the audience some experiences that devel­oped certain instincts that are valuable to a business career," but that cannot be taught in a classroom. 
Earlier this week. Lutterbach served as a judge in the MBA Case Challenge, a competition of five schools that tests stu­dents' ability to apply their knowledge of marketing. 
finance, management and ethics in analyzing a profile of a business. While Lutterbach sees the competition as an excellent test of a student's classroom success, he added that there is still more that needs to be learned. 
Lutterbach emphasized that the lessons he will communi­cate in his lecture are applica­ble to a variety of majors and fields of study. 
During the talk, Lutterbach will review four or five cardi­nal rules of doing business. He will use various audio-visual aids, in hopes of rendering the talk "engaging." 

Pulitzer winner to lecture today 
Special to The Observer 

Pulitzer Prize-winning author David Remnick will deliver the 1998 Red Smith Lecture in Journalism today. 
A staff writer for The New Yorker, Remnick will discuss "How Muhammad Ali Changed the Press" at 7:30 
p.m. in the Hesburgh Library auditorium. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Remnick, who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1994 for "Lenin's Tomb," is currently completing a book about the rise of Ali. "Lenin's Tomb," which also won a George Polk Award for excellence in jour­nalism, chronicles the demise of the Soviet Union. 
Formerly a correspondent 
for the Washington Post, Remnick is also the author of "Resurrection," a study of the turmoil in Russia today, and "The Devil Problem (and Other True Stories)," a collec­tion of magazine profiles. 
Remnick, a graduate of Princeton University, has been a visiting fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and has taught at Columbia and Princeton Universities. 
The Red Smith Lecture in Journalism honors the life and career of sportswriter Walter "Red" Smith, a 1927 alumnus of Notre Dame who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for dis­tinguished criticism. At the time of his death in 1982, Smith was a columnist for The New York Times. 



MEN IN BLACK WhJ, a~te ~? W~u~~? 



7-t. fliHt ~· e.s.e ~. '21c:tt U'<Uk. e.s.e 
?rn ~ ~tJ#t. Me ~4 ~ CJHe-~ ~'P~ ~ 
~s~ •~ z,<UHe, 1~ 46556 (219) 631~639'5. ~:ll~.d.ed4/-~ 
ANSWER:-t. TJ-IECALLW 
'"'~ .. 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, March 25, 1998 


Women's Role In The Church 
i\.s a young woman finishes high school and explores options for her future, a vast sdedion is laid before her. Four or more years of' college oll'er countless profes-
Julie Ferraro 
sional opportunities, a-; do "trade schools" or job training programs. What is distinctly missing in this abundance of' chokes is religious lili~. 
This absencn is due to the fact that many !~xisting congmgations of' women have gone too far in their "renewal" since Vatican II. They have shed their distinc­tive habit in the hope of' mlating better to the laity, tlwy live and work like the non­vowml Catholic, so what is the dill'ercnce between their lifestyle and the lay state? 
The dedine in vocations to the aetive religious life is due to these faets, and also has alTectml the eloistercd religious life. i\ young woman looking to the future dons not find the prospect of' continual, dramatic chang<\ within an institution attractive. If she does not like what she sees in the eommunities that have already undergone the major "nmewal"­inducting the incmased median age and dwindling mnphasis on communal wor­ship and living-would she rnally want to enter a more traditional congmgation that may decide upon a similar rnstruc­turing as years pass? 
That all Christians arP called to live up to tlw promis1~s of their baptism regard­less of tlwir state in life compounds the vocation problem. Whetlwr single or marriml, a lay woman today can do work equal to or excel'ding a woman in reli­gious vows and still maintain a viabl<\ prayPr life. What 1wed is there for reli­gious lil'n? 
Despite those in religious congregations who speak out on feminist issues ­specifically women's ordination-mod­ern society is in desperate need of women who are willing to stand by the Church's dedarations and serve Christ in Ilis peo­ple. Society needs the example of women who openly proclaim their dedication to Christ by wearing a habit of some type. Society needs to be reminded that a lov­ing God watches over us, and that we have the chance to love Ilim in return through every action and activity. Just to recognize a Sister on the street provides that example and reminder. 
The women of religious congregations who are "inconspicuous" in their dress and occupations cannot honestly claim that their community is "better" for the changes. Their dwindling numbers are proof that by catering to the individuals, they have lost their focus on the All. 
These communities that have gone too far may now be too far gone to be sal­vaged. As their membership continues its deeline through death and defection, the remaining numbers will have to find alternatives-either merging with other congregations or disbanding altogether. Will such a horrible fate be what it takes to make them see the error of their ways? 
The one redeeming factor in all this is that many traditional religious congrega­tions, whose members still wear a habit, live in common and follow the Evangelical Counsels faithfully, enjoy a steady interest among the young women seeking to answer God's call. New con­gregations, founded on traditional c.harisms, are seeing abundant numbers of inquiries. Overall, when the "failures" have been weeded out in this game call!~d "rennwal," tradition will stand firm, and young women will again be able to serve God with emphasis on service and prayer. 
Julie Ferraro is a local administrative assistant. ller column appears every other Wednesday. 
'!11e uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those of The Observer. 

• 
COAOI, I lXW'T !ieeANYTHING 
IN~AeG.IT 
PAR7YP!?O­ll?CTKJN. 
I 
Y&AH, MAN, I PLAY HARP­80TH ON 771& F//31..1?ANI?OFF/ tt/HATIF I &&T9(/s:Tl3/? OR. I 70T.At-A CAR? NHAT/F I IVNCH OtJTA COP OR 90M& &1/i?L.. ACCil!iC5ME-c:Ft;1r$f!/JP!3 .? 
Current Vatican Perspective 'Disoriented' 
With reference to the March 17 Associated Press report regarding the Vatican's actions during World War II. the current perspective is totally disori­ented. 
OM defmi.te indication that Pope Pius XJI was held in the utmost respect by influential Jews at that time is the fact that the Grand H.abhi of Rome not only converted to the Catholic religion, but took ''Eugenio" as his Baptismal name out of his profound respect for Eugenio Pacelli, Pope Pius XII. Indeed, in 1938 he wrote a book, "The Nazarene," in which he pretty well evidenced his belief in the teachings of the Catholic Church, but delayed his conversion because he did not want such action appear that he was doing it to keep from being persecuted as a Jew. It was termed the greatestconversion of a rabbi in such an important post in some 500 years. 
Moreover, efforts by the Catholic Church to oppose Nazism are well docu­mented and stand in start contrast to the role of American Jews at that criti­cal period. For example, The New York Times and other leading journals reported that i.n 1982, a commission of prominent American Jewish leaders, headed by the late former U.S. Supreme Court Justice, Arthur Goldberg, dis­solved "in anger and dissension," fol­lowing release by that commission of its own 15~month study. The study con­cluded that during the period 1930­1945, major American Jewish organiza­tions did virtually nothing to alleviate or to protest in any significant manner Hitler's efforts to terrorize, torture and exe'Cute Jews. Christians and others. The Washington Post reported on Feb. 11, 1983 that the study "cast American Jews as 'indifferent' to the plight of the Europeans.~ See also The New York Times coverage of the same commission report, dated Jan. 4,1993, p. A-1. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I MEAN,  A8SOt/.JTlU~'p  
W)l£177-e cat£G&  58T YOU UPtt!ITH A 70Pt&6AL.  QXIt.. 8eCAU~  A/350/...IJT&t.Y. ALt. 7H&  
GI3TE!e­HINI?Me  T~AM~PL.IJ5ARJ&!asrm  IGOTTA 8r3M&,  GI<£AT5 HAVZ: HAP 7081J  
OR.PIHAT?  6E-T aJT YOUR.  YOUKNCW?'  TH&M9fft.J/&5.1  
I  SIP&CFlH£ Gll'RY! I  \  I  
~  

Also of interest is a report in the January 1939 edition (p. 31) of Scottish Rite Freemasonry's New Age Magazine -hardly friendly toward the Vatican­which quoted Albert Einstein as saying that when Nazism came to Germany. he looked first to the universities. then to editors of newspapers and to individual journalists to speak out against Hitler's engulfing tyranny. But those efforts were in vain because those elements of' German society were silenced. "Only the Church stood squarely across the path of Hitler's campaign for the sup­pression of truth ... the Church alone has had the courage and persistence to stand for intellectual truth and moral freedom." 
One further point: A report in the 1944 edition of the National Catholic Almanac said Catholic chaplains "made a substantially representative estimate which revealed that 38 percent of the Army, 50 percent of the Navy, and ovor 50 percent of the Marine Corps were Catholic." The Church had long taught her children that there is no greater love than to lay down one's lifo for a friend. That instruction and profound patriotism compelled many young men, and most of my own Notre Dame class­mates to rush to defend Christian values and to terminate Hitler's madness. 
EtTort.<J to check the Chaplains' esti­mates at the Defense Department, the Catholic War Veterans and other sources met with negative results. Although only five items were listed on military personnel's 'dog tags,' -name, rank. serial number, blood type and religion-the Pentagon insists a record of religious affiliation of soldiers. sailors and airmen was never recorded. 
Paul A. Fisher 
NO Class of'43 
!'v!ard1 24, 1998 

• QUOTE OF THEDA­
'Life is one long process of getting tired.' 
-Samuel Butler 

VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 page 11 
• THE MIGHTY OAK • AWAKENINGS ABROAD 
Fear Not Giant Rocks ·sut Rather Misshapen Frogs 
On Oct 26, 2028, it seemed an of a parasite which affects reproduc­asteroid would pass within 20,000 tive cycles. Increased ultraviolet miles of earth. There was a chance radiation could be a factor. Also, that it would hit us, "causing consid-amphibians are particularly sensitive 
erable casual-=========~~~~~~;;;= to toxins in the envi­ties." I got ronment; they have out a shovel thin, absorbent skins and started and their part-aquat-
Sean 
digging my ic/part-terrestrial burrow and lifestyles put them in
0'c0n n 0r
stocking double jeopardy. Spam. But But there has been then the no consensus expla­media retract-nation of the decline. ed the original That is what fright­trumped-up report and gave us the ens me. When the elk disappear from relieving news that the rock would be Wisconsin or the wolves from more like 600,000 miles off our bow Tennessee, you know why. They (but much closer if the Republicans were shot out When some rare were in office), and the chance was orchid is swallowed by urban sprawl, more like one in a million. So there's you can tell the reason for that, too. a chance. Knowing the root of the problem, you 
In the movies, either Bruce Willis can attack it. But this situation seems and Ben Affleck or Robert DuVall and a little more subtle, maybe even more Morgan Freeman will take care of the profound. Animals are actually get-problem (my money's on DuVall and ting made wrong. That isn't the same Freeman). In real life we're either as shooting a wolf. The wolf was fine lucky or extremely, extremely and made like a wolf and then you unlucky and dead. If we're that killed it. That is the fact. But when unlucky, we probably did something an entire order of vertebrates is to deserve it. A bucket of other apoc-under mysterious duress, even in the alyptic delights awaits us, though. soundest of parks and preserves, and Volcanoes and earthquakes and out-there is not a clear cause like the breaks and giant snakes. Everybody woman with the rifle or the bulldozer, wants to pay six dollars to see the what do you say? You keep research-hellfire and brimstone fad of the ing, and employ countermeasures week, whoopee. But let's look for a against likely causes, and hope. more subtle disaster. I remember reading the story of a 
There is something strange with breeder of fancy goldfish in Japan, frogs. For a few years, deformed revered for the great delicacy of form ones have been showing up in ponds he had achieved in his crosses, a across much of the upper midwest master of his art. And then he and parts of the northwest and north-watched as one brood grew up from east. The phenomenon has been tiny silver fry and slowly assumed a especially pronounced in Minnesota, visage of grotesque deformity. And where it was discovered by school-knowing he had caused this, a warp children in 1995. Specimens have in the intended form, he felt guilty malformed or extra limbs, among before Creation. In the case of these other parts. One had 10 legs. If frogs, maybe some guilt would be in you're a gigger, don't go throwing on order. But who's going to cry over your waders and heading up there frogs? just yet. The extra legs are spindly, If they were the mass-death-threat weak things which just hang off the whiz-bang freak-of-the-week body of the frog like macabre armageddon people would get hyped spaghetti. up. The insidious twisted frog saga 
Last September, ABC's Nightline should be made into a blockbuster reported that a research team investi-movie. Bruce Willis and a band of gating the problem had determined unusually attractive smart-cracking that the deformities were caused in at sidekicks from all walks of life could least two Minnesota locales by an be sent in as our last hope in the fight unidentified agent in the water. One-to save the frogs, flying into space to hundred percent of frogs raised erect an ozone shield. Or in a cun­under lab conditions in water from ning twist on Biblical apocalypse, a the sites showed defects, while zero plague of the mutated frogs could percent of frogs raised in the control overrun the nation, and the govern-water showed deformities. Those ment would suspect the aliens were odds arc money in the bank. The behind it. No one will listen to the State of Minnesota thought enough of unusually attractive religious new-the finding to provide bottled water to age visionary guy, played by Matthew people living near the sites. McConaughey, who insists that they 
It is disturbing to look at galleries of are our own creation, grown of our pictures of these frogs. They might sins, and to stop them we must seem insignificant; they don't look at repent. But at the last second, the you with savvy like a big, pretty unusually attractive female scientist mammal. They don't have names. would discover that the aliens are a You can't see discomfort in their eyes. government conspiracy designed to But there is a creeping uneasiness hide the truth, that the plague actual-about the whole thing, a Doctor ly is the work of the immoral agents Moreau's Island kind of feeling writ who keep the government in office, small. If we are in some way respon-and she will heed the advice of the sible for the mass-mutation of frogs, preacher and then they will live which we likely are, what other together near a pond filled with crimes have we unknowingly laid a happy singing frogs. foundation for? And when will they Also, keep in mind that according to show? Before the asteroid? Odds are NASA, the odds that an asteroid big they will. Amphibians have been enough to survive the atmospheric called the proverbial canary in the burn will intersect earth's orbit in coal mine. They are a sort of early-your lifetime, other than the afore-warning system for the environment, mentioned, are 1 in 50. if you will. I hear sirens in Minnesota. Sean O'Connor '97 is a grad stu­
Problems with frogs in these parts dent who enjoys both watching and accompany a general worldwide eating frogs. He can be reached at decline in amphibian populations. Sean. B. 0 'Connor. 43@nd. edu. Within the last two decades, frog The views expressed in this column species have mysteriously vanished in are those ofthe author and not neces­Australia and Costa Rica. sarily those ofThe Observer. Populations have suddenly plunged in many other areas. There is evidence 
American Attitudes Promote Excellence 
LONDON The Brits, on the other hand, have cho­
Among the most notable differences sen to settle for what they've got. In between British and American society is everything from voice mail to e-mail and the pace of life. America is the founder the Internet, the Brits are playing catch­of the 80-hour work week; we've man-up. But they're not trying to catch-up too 
hard, because for the most part they really don't care-why must their com­puters boot up in 10 seconds when they can do the same thing after 20? Why do they need 100 TV channels when there's
J.P. 
more than one person can possibly watch on just five? This attitude is respectable and com­
Cooney 
mendable in many ways. My reservation, though, is that this attitude seeps down to all sectors of life and society. The result is a stagnate class system, where 
aged to add three additional hours to the people resign themselves to a certain day, learned to operate on half the lifestyle, a certain career, and a definite amount of sleep, and are obsessed with standing in society from which they have getting the job done to perfection. Great little incentive, desire, or ability to Britain is predominantly a "9 to 5" soci­escape. Life in Great Britain is Calvinist ety; offices close down entirely during the in that sense: societal norms are well­lunch hour, and regardless of whether or established and societal roles pre-deter­not the job is done, workers bolt at 5 mined and largely inescapable. 
p.m. to make it to their local pub for In America there undoubtedly exists a happy hour. Moreover, pubs close at class system, determined predominantly llp.m. to assure a full-night's sleep. on the basis ofwealth. However, while 
Life in Great Britain is saner, even America's wealth is distributed less equi­more civil in several ways. They know tably than any other country, nearly how to relax and they are not caught up everyone considers themselves a member with being the best at everything. You of the middle-class, and nearly everyone, 

put in an honest day's work and then you even our most poor, hold out dreams and enjoy yourself; and when you do enjoy hopes for success. This attitude is dis­yourself, you do it, for the most part, in a tinctly American and extremely healthy reasonable and calm fashion. You only for our society. It is the existence of this live once after all -so why spend it attitude, however, that makes our distri­cooped up in an office? During my first bution of wealth and resources, and the few weeks in London, I was so taken with existence of such vicious poverty in British attitudes that I questioned the America, all the more disappointing. American lifestyle -why don't we just Great Britain, for all its class and atti­step back and take a deep breath, I tudinal vices, has learned to distribute its thought. resources more equitably and fairly. 
Now that I've been here for awhile, While not everyone holds out dreams of however, for all our vices, I realize that being Bill Gates, nearly everyone can I'm an American through and through. I count on their next meal and their next thrive on competition, thirst the self­check. Unfortunately for Americans, imposed stress, and can't think of much wealth is not the only measure of a suc­I'd rather be doing during the 80-hour cessful society. Rather, the measure of a work week. It'd be nice, perhaps, if great society is how we treat our poor, lunch was a little longer and a peaceful sick, young and aged. America has suc­happy hour was a little more of an insti­ceeded in getting, but we need to reeval­tution, but on the margin, I think uate how we give. America would lose a great part of itself The challenge facing America as we if heart disease ceased to be the leading head into the next millennium will not be cause of death. whether or not we maintain our status as 
Americans possess an unparalleled the wealthiest nation, but whether or not Protestant work ethic. The job isn't com­we figure out a way of distributing the plete at 5 p.m. -it's complete when the vast wealth we've earned in fairer and product is perfect. Moreover, Americans more equitable fashion -and not just at dare to dream: we have more "rags to home, but abroad as well. Considering riches" stories than any other society, we how hard we work and how far we dare were the first to fly, we put a person on to dream, the capacity to overcome this the moon, we've spearheaded the discov­challenge is within our grasp. I guess the ery and exploration of cyberspace, etc. question is whether or not we really want What do Americans have as a result of to overcome it. our hard work, determination, ingenuity and perfedionism? Wealth. We J.P. Cooney is an economics and gov­arguably have more goods, better tech­ernment major attending the London nology, a greater degree of convenience, Program. He can be still be reached via and a higher standard of living than any e-mail at Cooney.6@nd.edu. country in the world. We also have hope The views expressed in this column are that few others have -hope that we as those ofthe author and not necessarily individuals will one day succeed and live those ofThe Observer. a life free of material and emotional con­straints. 

8cene 
page 12 ---~'t\'•\.''<k---------------~OBSERVER --------------Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
TAKE ME THEBAL 
. . . 
: 
":·'·..; ;·. . ._,.-__ , 
.·l·oo···. at Spri 

Tampa, :wher., the Yankees train; and Chain 0' s Stadium tn Winter Haven, sHe of the · Indians. . . . . H~yen, tlierewere a lot of older rest­
d~nttil Wh() had. retired to Florida," and many of them were from the Cleveland area, Rioi said. "In the parking lot, half the cars had Ohio license plates. You can't get tickets in Cleveland {to the regular season games] so this is the only time many people can see the Indians ... Before the games, the players usually mill around the field, talking to the fans alongside thP dugouts while fielding grounders or fly balls. The conversa­tions between a player and fan can become an ea.<>y way for. a fan to convince a player to give him a ball • 
. one ofthe most priied possessions from a trip to the . ballpark. .·· • 
•... Davis Leung~ a $i~gfried Hall junior who has gone .. to Florida for spring training games with his room­mate, Joe Cavato. and Cavato's family for the past two years, got a ball from Cardinal prospect Manny' Aybar this year. 
"Last year Wfl were sitting in box seat,; right behind the dugout at a Cardinals game. Manny was, at first and we were yelling to him to steal. Finally he did, but h~ got thrown out," Leung said...This· 
Hat!leJJ•aH ........"'"'""""........-.• ~·-. . training b4t.t:e all ..· year during p:tactice before a game we were talking,oWn. ,Many are· played to him from the stands/and he threw a ball io us." in .. . . . . .... . . .· a. capacity ol'.:if.bopt 6,000, mean-Leung and his friends also got an autograph from 
·~· 

ing a seatis never far from the,f'l~ld,. Aybar, as well as autographs from Cardinal greats 
"It feels like it'~ha Little Leaglie game," said Rini, Bob Gibson and Lou Brock, who were brought in by who this year went to four games over spring the club to help coach during spring training. That's break, three of which were Indians games. "You're part of the atmosphere of spring training-all-time right there. You look down and it's Manny Ramirez, greats lounging around swapping stories about the it's Jim Thome, it's Charles Nagy. It's very inti­past, players signing autographs for hours before mate." the games, and players sometimes even walking out 
Rini, a lifelong Indian fan who is from the greater of the stadium after the game alongside the fans Llf\VW.Illlltd area, saw games at three different ball­through the same gate. 
r: tim. Disney Sports Complex in The setting isn't too bad, either-clear blue skies of me Braves; Legends Field in and palm trees hanging over the fence. With 20 
slugger Mark M.::;Qwire signs auto­fahs before a·gam$. 
At the St. Louis Cardinals' spring training site JU,IJteir; Fila·, ·rookie prospect Manny Aybar autographs a · a young fan. 
· The Yankees' Legends Field training 
. is different from most spring training . capacity of10,000, lt Is much bigger parks, its location in Tampa gives it a big city 
atmosphere not found at other sites. The facade atop the grandstand and the outfield measurements are taken from the actual Yankee Stadium in New York. 


-----------~ ~__,.----·------------------------~-~~---~ 
-
8cene 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 -------------~OBSERVER ---------page 13 
10n1rnnn""'" of ......,,_..un. or living 
to the game up to inWiEe tllieui'case~-For -the pta:vers 
mV:.t'Jijplfl~Abas;ebllLll, 
seats in a row of 10 or 12 across, talking about their odds are a little bit better, but 
next shuffleboard game or the engine problems are slim. with their Cadillacs. That drama is one reason some fans go to spring training 
Although the few college students in attendance gtl.Jlles. 
stood out among the senior citizens, they all had a ·.. "I like to seethe guys from Double-A who are trying to make rew things in common ... besides a love of baseball. the team, working their butts off," said Ryan Murphy, a Dillon During a Cardinals' game in Jupiter, Fla., a beer Hall senior who, along with a couple friends, saw a game stopped at the row where Leung and Cavato between the Yankees and Blue Jays at Tampa while they were 
sitting and began passing a cold, frosty beer vacationing over break. "That's one of the nice things about to one of the fans. The beer passed from one spring trainin the variety of the players, more prospects." to the next until it stopped -in the eager Sometimes e players shine. In a game March 9 in Port of a 75-year-old woman. Charlotte, Fl collection of Detroit Tiger rookies and minor leaguers he eir own against the starting line-up of the Texas Rang ore losing in the bottom of the ninth inning on a two-run do le. But other times the younger players just get, as Stanford Hall senior Kevin Rini p 't, ~shelled." "That's the'•"!O ____ _art about spring training," he said. Even the most ce ebrated players sometimes come to spring training with their future in doubt. Florida Marlins' second baseman Craig Counsell, a 1992 graduate of Notre Dame and hero oflast fall's World Series, came to camp this spring with a roster spot secured but facing competition for the starting sec­ond baseman's job from 21-year-old Luis Castillo. Castillo started at second base for the Marlins on Opening Day last year, but was sent down to the Triple-A level at mid-season, the Marlins to trade for Counsell. · "The year in June.was that .We bad rushed arJl1t£1nt•l), assistant · ·. 6t media rela­mtlvilliUSIV; Craig i11 and did a 
-
in thl:fqueisticm was. 'Is 

to assume the second aseman job?'" S~t.mllerltOOOJdiimed...But last week we sent Castillo down to 
-
· · _ Craig came out and has· had a great spring, and we know what he can do for us." 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 25,' 1998 

Detroit, Dallas complete deals as deadline passes 
Playoff race prompts 18 trades around league Tuesday 
Associated Press 
The Detroit Hed Wings found the veteran defensemen they sought when they acquired Dmitri Mironov and Jamie Macoun as the NIIL trade deadline approached Tuesday. 
The Hed Wings will begin defending their Stanley Cup with a reshaped blue line after obtaining Mironov from the
-.. 
Mighty Ducks of' Anaheim and Macoun from the Toronto Maple Leaf's. 
"We have been looking to upgrade our defense," Hed Wings general manager Ken Holland said. "To be able to acquire a player of Dmitri Mironov's skill and experience is an excellent move for us." 
The Hed Wings parted with Jamie Pushor and a fourth­round pick in this year's draft for Mironov before sending a fourth-round pick to Toronto for Macoun. 
The Dallas Stars, which leads Detroit by five points in the Central Division, coun­tered by acquiring center Brian Skrudland and right wing Mike Keane from the New York Hangers for injured right wing Todd Harvey and left wing Bob Errey. 
Mironov. 32. had six goals and 30 assists in 66 games with the Mighty Ducks, while the 25-year-old Pushor had two goals and five assists in 54 games with the Hed Wings. Macoun, 36, had seven assists in 67 games, but was a minus­17 for the season. 
"(Mironov) will be able to help us down the stretch run and into the playoffs," Holland said. 
Eighteen trades involving 37 players and 14 draft picks were made around the NHL on Tuesday. The biggest involved teams hoping to make a move that can push them well into can help us down the stretch." 
Toronto dealt veteran defenseman Jeff Brown to Washington for another long­time NHL defender, Sylvain Cote. 
Moves some expected were not made. 
Petr Nedved remained unsigned and untraded by the Penguins. Defensemen AI Mcinnis ($3.5 million) and 

the playoffs. Philadelphia also picked up 
'WE HAVE BEEN LOOK­
two defense-
ING TO UPGRADE
m e n , Ed m on to n 's OUR DEFENSE. To BE ABLE 
Dan McGillis and Vancouver TO ACQUIRE A PLAYER OF veteran David DMITRI MIRONOV'S SKILL 
Babych, ~ut AND EXPERIENCE IS AN 
parted wtth t a I e n t c d EXCELLENT MOVE· FOR US.' defenseman J a n n e Gary Suter ($1.6 million) stayed with St. Louis and Chicago, respectively, even though they are expected to become free agents. Goaltender J o h n Vanbiesbrouck, 
Niinimaa, who KEN HOLLAND who requested was sent to RED WINGS GENERAL MANAGER a trade, stayed 
the Oilers. 
"We felt that in the division we're in we're going to compete against the big teams like the Devils -we felt we were going to have to be bigger on our blue line," Flyers general manager Bob Clarke said. 
In another move for a possi­ble contender, Pittsburgh acquired center Scan Pronger from Anaheim in exchange for the rights to goaltender Patrick Lalime. Pronger. who has 12 goals and 23 assists in 56 games, gives the Penguins more stability on their third line. 
"It was a depth move for us, and it adds a little size to our lineup," Penguins general manager Craig Patrick said. "lie has good speed and (toughness), and we feel he 
with Florida and probably will become a free agent. 
The Blues sent right wing Joe Murphy to San Jose for dcfenseman Todd Gill, then dealt young center Harry York to the Rangers for veteran center Mike Eastwood. 
Carolina acquired forward Ray Sheppard from the Panthers for goaltender Kirk McLean as the Hurricanes attempt to improve their power play down the stretch. 
McLean ligures to eventually fill Vanbiesbrouck's spot. 
The Hurricanes, five points behind Ottawa for the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference, are hoping Sheppard can regain his form from the previous six seasons, in which he averaged 32 goals. Sheppard, 31, has 1 7 goals 
Jeff Brown San Jose Sharks Joe Murphy Bryan Merchment David Shaw 
St. Louis Blues 
Todd Gill Mike Eastwood Carolina Hurricanes Ray Sheppard Florida Panthers Kirk Mclean Calgary Flames Jason Wiemer Tamp Bay Lightning Sandy McCarthy 
Andrei Nazarov 

and 14 assists in 61 games this season. 
"Ray is a proven goal-scor­er," said Hurricanes general manager Jim Rutherford said. "He is an experienced player and a great addition for our team as we head down to the final weeks of the season." 
Tampa Bay, with the worst record in the league, unloaded center Jason Wiemer to Calgary for bruising right wing Sandy McCarthy and a third­and fifth-round draft pick.The Lightning also traded defense­men Bryan Marchment and David Shaw to the Sharks for right wing Andrei Nazarov, future considerations and a conditional exchange of first­round draft picks. 
The Buffalo Sabres traded forward Jason Dawe to the New York Islanders, but were unable to unload disgruntled forward Matthew Barnaby. 
Buffalo expected to be active before the deadline, mostly because Barnaby requested a trade last week. He has been unhappy all season and made several comments recently about his desire to leave Buffalo. 
Barnaby's gripe with the Sabres goes back to the offsea­son after they failed to rehire former coach Ted Nolan. 
"It was on his mind all year. but it was going to be on our terms," Sabres coach Lindy Huff said from the team's hotel in Calgary. "If there was a deal, we're going to get some value." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­ NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES  GRADUATION TICKETS  Dave Barry once said:  
MENT -Discover how to teachNOTICES basic conversational English in Prague, Budapest & Krakow. """Attention Sophomores··· Competitive wages+ benefits. Looking for a job for next Seasonal/year-round positions. For school year? more information: Position available at the (517)336·0640 ext. K55841 Morrissey Loan Fund. Call Deb at 1·6616 for Law prof seeks child care for 2 sons information. (2 & 3 1/2) 3 days/wk beginning ILOST & FOUND I after Easter. Could work until early July & resume in Aug. Call Prof. Vincent Rougeau, 631-8610. LOST: Black Case Logic CD SMC student seeks tutor for case. $50.00 reward upon Bus.Stats class, if interested call return. Contact 4-3754. 284-5048 ASAP  NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 2773097 8 BEDROOM HOME 2773097 FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH OAKHILL CONDO, AVAILABLE AUG. 1ST. CALL OR LEAVE A MESSAGE (219)272·291 0. We are looking tor someone to SUBLET our nice house near cam­pus for the summer. Rent nego­tiable. Call Peter 251-0815 Nice 3-4 bdrm. bath & 1/2 house. Unfurnished, 2-car garage, gas  WANTED Call Dennis @ 288-2423 or 800-915·6293 PERSONAL look at all this junk food ... Coming April 1 and 2 If you or anyone you know likes a certain kind of music, or any kind of music, then you and these people you know should know about what we know:  NOBODY LEAVES UNTIL THEY GIVE ME CLASSIFIEDS! Hey, Mr. Cullinan, this one's for you!!! How's it feel to see your name in The 0? CP-­1643 turtke creek court. yeah baby!!! strongsville. gottaloveit. right cmn??? So is that redhead Scene editor.  As a parent. I believe it is my responsibility to help my son devel­op the skills he will need to become a responsible and productive mem­ber of society. So I took him to the horse races. Specifically I took him to Gulfstream Park, a very nice track in Hallandale, Fla., where you can bet on horses and feel comfortable wearing clothing styles dating back upward of 45 years. You remember during the Disco Age, when men wore clingy pants in highly unnatur­al colors and patterns, so that the wearer looked as though he has been wading naked to his waist in a  
.,.  FOUND: CROSS PEN BY GRACE FOR RENTHALL. CALL LAURA 1·6967. Very Reasonable Rent Looking for a mature female orWANTED graduate student to share brand new home (South Bend area, north, Advertising Sales Internships Clay Twnshp). Spacious upper-leva University Directones is hiring stu­private bath, beautiful view over-dents to sell yellow page advertis­looking pond. ing for the official campus tele-Please send inquiries to: phone directory this summer. PJS Commiss1on based pay structure. 1705 South Bend Ave.  heat. WID. 1 0-mo lease. $1,050/mo. Across from park. safe area. 289­5057. Castle Point apt. sublease $200/mo 243-4920 2 College Park Apts avail for sum­mer. 243-5668 FOR SALE  This SATURDAY night, Michiana's two best-smelling bands, UMPHREY's McGEE and ALIBA­SA'S TAHINI will be hosting a festival of music and dance at the STATE THEATRE right next to Heartland downtown. The show begins at 8:00 pm with Umphrey's Mcgee, continues at  Props to LJ for correctly predicting all the Oscar winners in Monday's paper. Six days until Opening Day. Well, you did have a point there. Houston, Brad has a problem. K.R. -YOU ARE A MEAN BUG!!!!!!!!!!I!!!!I!!IIIIIIIII!II Dancing Queen:  massive toxic polyester spill, and it dried on his body? Those pants are still the height of style, at the race­track. We are talking about an older crowd, including guys who, at some point in their betting careers. bet on a T rifecta involving Spartacus. I enjoy the racetrack crowd. It's a more sociable group than you might think. I'm generally shy, but when I go to the track, I often find myself having conversations with total strangers. I'll be standing idly near a bank of TV monitors showing hors- 
Training program. Excellent sales & South Bend, IN. 46637  9:30 with Michiana's greatest belly  Hi. It's me.  es racing •• possibly at this track:  
marketing experience. Call 1-800­ dancers. and concludes with a spe­ -Twinkletoes  possibly at some other track; possi­ 
743·5556 Ext. 143 or visit Going to Summer School? Stay in  SPACIOUS 1BR CONDO  cial extended set from Alibaba's  bly in races that took place in 1973  
www.universitydirectories.com College Park condo. Call243-7720 for details. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT Now Renting  walk to campus Call Dianne Killelea 272-5444  Tahini at 10:00 pm. Tickets are available at the Lafortune Box Office and the State Theatre Box Office for $5 until the day of the  Joan worships Dawson. Dawson's Creek, that is. Ryan Mclean: Simply the Best.  ·• and a man standing next to me will suddenly yank his cigar out of his mouth, turn to me, and say: "Can you believe THAT?"  
- SNITE ART MUSEUM Campus View Assist Education Curator with sum­1 & 2 Bedrooms mer youth art program focusing on 2 Blocks from campus museum objects and related hands­272-1441 on activities. June 2nd to July 31st. 10-20 hours per week. Fine Arts Second round of leasing at College major with exp. teaching and/or Park Condominiums, few units still working with children preferred. available. Please contact office for (June 15 to July 31st. additional appointment 272-0691. Work Study hours • if eligible-with National Youth Sports Program to 4 or 5 Bdrm lurnished house. make a total of 40 hours per week if wid, sand volleyball, 119 N. St.  TICKETS For Said Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows Center Stage -$30 272-7233 PHANTOM OF THE OPERA TICKETS. Thursday. March 26. Available through Cavanaugh  show. at which point they become $8. Come on out and dance yourself silly! ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love  Her name's Katie. Katie Wheeler. She drives the bus ... She takes ALL the kids to school Julie •• Are we seriously running this marathon? LJ, next time I'll drive our kids home.  "No!" I'll say. "What the (bad word) is he DOING??" the man will say. "He's (bad word) CRAZY!!" "I'll say!" I'll say, wondering whom we're talking about. A horse? A jockey? Newt Gingrich? "You're (bad word) RIGHT he's (bad word) crazyl" the man will say, glad to have encountered some­body else who knows what's going on. Then he'll walk away, still talk·  
desired. PLUS room and board Peter. 233-9947 included June 23 to Aug. 1) CALL education curator Sherrie ALL SIZE HOMES Gauley, 631-4435, ASAP. CLOSE TO CAMPUS App. deadline 4/06/98 232-2595  Hall. Transportation provided. Leave at 5:00pm from Stepan Center. If interested, call Jamie at 634-1470.  to provide a newborn with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1· 800-484-7011 Pin #4523 God, that redheaded sports produc- To know that we know what we know, and don't know what we do not know, that is true knowledge. Celina Dian: The Annoying Chest­ ing, leaving behind no clues except a small puddle of cigar drool. At least Dave didn't bet on the pink and purple horse.  
lion guy is really cute.  Pounding Loudmouth.  

--~--~-~­
--~ 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• NIT FINAL Fm.m 
Minnesota, Penn State make final a Big Ten battle 
-------~~ ------­

Associated Press watching from the stands, high 30 points and Sam Fresno State's improbable run Jacobson added 24 as NEW YORK 
to a championship ended Minnesota advanced to the NIT 
With the man who exposed its 
Tuesday night. championship with a 91-89 
off-court problems to America Kevin Clark scored a career-overtime victory over the 
The story of a compassionate engineer who must take a m:~f'fri.g'~th tb.J~l;.@ghty King so that he may develop a project around his estate. But his fortune could be snatched from him if he inadvertently insults the king in any way, even with a single remark., 
"Full o/originality...heart, wit, juicy performances and '!cmtempor;cr.ry '!!eJ?<;mcej" -Jay Carr, THE BOSTONGLOBE "' ;.> +WI "''! ;nV 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, I 998 ADMISSION IS FREE CUSHING AUDITORIUM ~ SHOW BEGINS AT 8:00 PM 
G.t'\semble Desca.-.sa 
L.afi, Ame,.ica"' Music with .Af,.o-Ca,.ihheaM 'Rhythms 

A c&.\Jt""""af evet'\t cospOt'\&Ot"ed by the KeUogg Jt'\stit"'te at'\d La Afiat'\Za SL-tl'\day, Mal"ch 29, 1998 LaF'o,-tL-tl'\e Balii"OOW\ 7:00pi'Yt ADMJSSJON FR66 
Bulldogs. 
Fresno State's season of scan­
dal, which included arrests, sus­
pensions and substance abuse 
problems for some of its star 
players, was recently the focus 
of a "60 Minutes" feature by 
CBS correspondent Mike 
Wallace. 
After the story was aired, 
Fresno State coach Jerry 
Tarkanian criticized Wallace for 
not being up front with him 
about its content. But at half­
time, Wallace, a guest of 
Tarkanian's, said he and the 
coach had spoken before the 
game and had "a very civilized 
conversation." 
The Gophers {19-15 l left Tarkanian's club with only a consolation game remaining. 
Minnesota, which won the NIT in 1993, is playing in its second straight national semifinals after making to the Final Four last year. 
"We feel this is our Final 
Four," Gophers coach Clem 
Haskins said. 
Fresno State was done in by poor shot selection down the stretch and a costly technical foul late in regulation. 
With the Bulldogs leading 70­66 with five minutes left. Fresno State's Kevin Roberson was whistled for attempting to trip Quincy Lewis after a rebound. After Eric Harris made both technical free throws, Jacobsen hit a 3 to put Minnesota up by one, a five-point swing. 
"The technical was the key point in the game," Tarkanian said. "I didn't see what hap­pened." 
Jermaine Fowlkes led Fresno State (21-12) with 25 points and Chris Herren had 14 -all in the second half. 
The second meeting between Fresno State and Minnesota was much tighter that the first, a 92­72 Gophers victory in December. The clubs went at each other hard from the outset. and went to overtime tied at 77. 
Herren's free throw with 2:52 left in OT gave the Bulldogs an 82-81 lead before Jacobsen was fouled and made two to put the Gophers back up. 
After Fowlkes missed -only his second in 12 attempts ­Jacobson scored underneath to put Minnesota up by three with 
2:10 remaining. Herren's buck­et cut it to 85-84, and the Bulldogs got a chance to take the lead when Quincy Lewis 
missed, but Fresno turned the 
ball over. 
Lewis made two free throws 
with 48 seconds left, and the 
Gophers closed it out at the free 
throw line after Herren lost con­
trol of the ball while making a 
baseline move. 
Clark, who scored 21 points 
against Fresno State earlier this 
year, went 9-for-16 from the 
field and 9-for-9 from the line. 
Fowlkes, 10-for-12 from the 
field, entered the game making 
22 of his previous 28 shots. 
Penn State 66 Georgia 6o 

Penn State's men will now get a chance to match what their women's team has already accomplished. 
Freshman Joe Crispin scored 18 points and the Nittany Lions advanced to the championship of the NIT on Tuesday night with a 66-60 win over Georgia. 
Penn State (19-12) will meet a familiar foe in Thursday night's final: Minnesota. The teams split their two meetings during the regular season. 
The Fresno State-Georgia con­solation game will precede the title game and match Bulldogs vs. Bulldogs. 
During a timeout with Penn State leading 55-54 late in the game, the crowd at Madison Square Garden was informed that Penn State had won the women's NIT by beating Baylor. 
Penn State fans erupted into chants of "We are Penn State" and the Nittany Lions responded down the stretch by outscoring the Bulldogs (19-15) 11-6 in the final 3:42. 
Pete Lisicky had 13 points for Penn State, and made a pair of late 3-pointers to stop Georgia. 
Freshman .Jumaine Jones led Georgia with 23 points and 15 rebounds, and Michael Chadwick had 12 points. 
Trailing 46-36, the Bulldogs picked up their defensive pres­sure and went on a 13-4 run to close within 50-49. But Lisicky bailed out Penn State by drain­ing a 3-pointer with five min­utes left. 
With the Nittany Lions apply­ing tough defense on the perimeter, the Bulldogs were unable to get a good look. But Penn State went cold from the field, and Georgia grabbed a 56­55 lead with 2:53 left on two free throws from Jones. 

JOB HUNTING? 
ALL INTERVIEWS TO BE HELD NEXT WEEK ARE POSTED TODAY IN THE CAREER AND PLACEMENT SERVICES OFFICE. CHECK NOW TO SEE IF YOU ARE SCHEDULED. 
IF YOU ARE NO LONGER INTERESTED, CROSS YOUR 
NAME OFF THE SCHEDULE. DO NOT TAKE AN 
INTERVIEW AWAY FROM ANOTHER STUDENT_ 
NO-SHOWS HURT EVERYONE. 
IF YOU SIGN UP. SHOW UP. 
-
...,_ 

-
-Garrity going to Final Four 
Special ro The Observer 
Pat Garrity will compete in the three-point shooting contest at the lOth Annual College Slam Dunk and Three-Point Shooting Championship this Thursday ir1 San Antonio, Texas. 
The event, held in conjunction with the NCAA Final Four, will be televised on ESPN from 9:30 
p.m. to 11:30 p.m. with Dick Vitale and Brad Nessler provid­ing the commentary. 
In addition to Garrity, tho contest will also feature Billy Thomas of" Kansas, Curtis Staples of Virginia, Charles .Jones of Long Island and Nathan Smith of American. Tho event will take place at Freeman Coliseum and will also feature a men's slam dunk con­test and a women's three-point shooting contest. The event is sponsored by lntersport Television. 
Garrity concluded his college­giatc earcnr as t.lw third-loading seornr in Notn~ Damn history with 2.085 points and was a ser.ond team AII-Anwriea pick this season by tho Associated Press and Tlw Sporting News. lie is also a two-limn GTI·: Academic AII-Amnrica pick. was the GTE Academic All­American or the Year this sea­son and carries an overall grade point avt~rage of 3.(>79 with a pre-prof"nssional major in sciencn. 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu Pat Garrity will get a trip to the Final Four as a competitor in the three­point shooting contest in San Antonio this weekend. 
_,.. 
-

Temporary am/ Permanent Placement 
312-346-3400 2 North LaSalle St Suite 630, Chi , IL 60602 
1t=3.14159265 Double Slice Pizza=$1.99 
The ratio of the circumference of a Fazoli's pizza to its diameter is delicious. 
And getting one is as easy as pie. Just dine in, carry out or drive through for Double Slice or a whole pie. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4D08, South Bend 317 W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 


Wednesday, March 25, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

40th Annual 
Colle~ate 
Jazz 
Festival 
April3 ~ 4, 1998 •Stepan Center 
TICKET INFORMATION 
ALL-WEEKEND PASSES 

Students, Faculty & Seniors: $6 General Public: $15 
.. 
FRIDAY EVENING 7:30pm 

Students, Faculty & Seniors: $5 General Public: $10 
SATURDAY AFTERNOON 1:30pm 

-
Students, Faculty & Seniors: Free General Public: $2 
SATURDAY EVENING 7:30pm 

Students, Faculty & Seniors: $3 General Public: $8 
Children under 12 admitted free to all events. 

Tickets available at the door or at the LaFortune information desk: 631-8128. 
For more information call the 



Student Union Board: 631-7757. 
Wednesday, March 25, I 998 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
--• SOFTBAlL 
Irish split opening doubleheader with E. Michigan 
Special 10 The Observer 
Notre Dame's softball team opened its 1998 home sehedule with a doubleheader split against Eastern Michigan in two live-inning games. 
The Irish won the first game 1-0 to improve to 7-3 all-time in home-opening games. The Eagles seored a run in the top of the fifth to break a 1-1 tie for a 2-1 win in the second game. 
Notre Dame's record now stands at 9-14 while Eastern Michigan is 6-21. The Irish return to the diamond with a home doubleheader against Loyola (Chicago) on Thursday, March 26, at 4:00 p.m. 
Notre Dame scored the first game's only run in the bottom of the fourth when Melanie Alkire led off with a single bdore Korrie Allen came in to pinch run for the freshman. Kris McCleary and Sarah Mathison used back-to-hack 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 24 
had other signitigance. 
"We played this game for the Adam Sargent Fund," Coyne said. "All the players received pledges from their family and friends. too, based on the out­put ~." goals scored by the team. 
Senior Kerry Audley was one of the main players in charge in getting outside pledges. 
"I called all the Alumni Clubs and most knew the situation, and most were willing to singles to score Allen with no outs. The Irish could not build on their lead after three straight ground-ball fielder's choiees ended the inning. Alkire picked up her second win of the season by allowing just two hits in live shutout innings pitched. 
The Eagles jumped out a to 1­0 lead in the second inning of game two when Crystal Ratcliff led otl' with a walk, went to sec­ond on a sacrifice bunt, went to third on a fielder choice and scored on an RBI single by Colleen Caplin. 
Notre Dame came right back with a tying run in the bottom of the second. Lizzy Lemire led off the second inning with a sin­gle, stole second base, went to third on a single by Korrie Allen and scored on an error on Allen's single to knot the score at 1-1. 
Eastern Michigan squandered lead-off walks in the third and fourth while Notre Dame wast-
donate," she said. "It was real­ly great to see all these clubs donating to an important fund, especially to one of a Notre Dame student-athlete." 
Up next for the Irish are two crucial games versus Davidson and Duke. Last year the Davidson Wildcats beat up on a young and inexperienced Irish squad by a 21-5 score, led by Sarah Hogan's five goals. 
"Our win today will give us something to build on for our two games this weekend," Coyne said. "Wins against these two teams will help us compete on a national level." 

Moreau Center­Uttle Theatre Thursday-Saturday, April 2-4 • 8 p.m. Sunday, April 5 • 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday . Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Mffii'l'~
I c....~ 
THE ARTS

.. 
~NOTRE DAME, IN 


The Irish Connection 
Not.-u. ~'-s HotttM N~ 
Proudly Presents 

/]imp louflfje Guchre Journey 
$2 YOU CALL IT HIGHT CASH PRIZES 
Thursday, March 26 
Introdudng NO's newest performing artists 
MIKE FUJI 
Mike Fuji is upstairs, Donee club downstairs
-
525 N. Hill St. South Bend 233-8505 
ed a lead-off single in the third two singles and walk to load the and failed to score a runner bases. Kelly !vie then scored from second with one out in the from third base on a wild pitch fourth. The Eagles went ahead with two outs. 2-1 in the top of the fifth with Lisa Tully led off the bottom of the fifth with a single, went to second on a wild pitch and advanced to third on a fielder's choice. A line-out double play ended the game. 
The College of Business Administration Diversity Program 
Presents 
A Discussion Entitled 
Diversity: A Business Perspective 
Hear views from representatives from various businesses as they discuss: 
Diversity in Corporate America The Value of Diversity in the Workplace Preparing for a Diverse Society 
Please join us in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium at 3:45p.m. Wednesday, March 25, 1998. 
Refreshments and the opportunity for further conversation will immediately follow. 

SllJmcdleml1l A~lblvillble~ JB3 (Q)Ucdl ~ 
JTJhil~ Jl~ J(Q)1Ullf (Q)JP)]p(Q)lflt1Ulmli11ly lt(Q) 1be ~ JPm1l (Q)if lllb.e lEKCJIJTJEJlMfJENT ~ 1brimlg GJR.JEAJf JEVJENJT£ lt(Q) ~umJPlUl~ 
Cimm1r w(Q)m~w Appllft~~ti(Q)w~ AvmTh~1bn~ ~11 IFJ~ggu IFir(Q)mllt JD)~~t JD)1me IFricdl~yS) JMiu~Ibll7 

Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS page 19 

Jazz jam Suns; Knicks knock off Warriors 
Associated Press 
added 14, but none of Phoenix's 13-2 in the first 5:22 of the sec­set in 1992 when he was with starters scored in double fig­ond half, led by Stockton's five. the Washington Bullets. SALT LAKE CITY ures. The Suns shot just 37 per­Howard Eisley scored six of After opening a 27-23 lead inKarl Malone scored 19 points, cent {30-for-81) from the field. Utah's last 10 points in the the first quarter, the JazzGreg Foster added 12 points 
John Stockton dished out 11 third quarter to propel the Jazz increased their lead to 10and a career-high 15 rebounds assists for the Jazz, who won 
to a 71-50 lead entering the points, 42-32, on a layup byand the Utah Jazz defeated their fourth straight home game fourth. Shandon Anderson with 3:16
Phoenix 92-73 Tuesday night to and their 14th in 15 overall. 
Utah's largest lead came on a left in the first half. 
move back into a tie for the best Utah and Seattle, who play next dunk by Bryon Russell that Utah would not score again in record in the Western 
Tuesday, both have a record of made it 81-52 with 7:50 to play. the half, and Scott hit the firstConference. 
51-17. The Jazz outrebounded the of his three 3-pointers and
Dennis Scott led the Suns with 
After leading 42-35 at half­Suns 56-36, and Foster topped Antonio McDyess hit one of two 16 points and Danny Manning time, Utah outscored the Suns his previous career-best of 11 free throws to pull the Suns to 
The Notre Dame College of Business Administration and the Department of Marketing invite you to attend 
A Presentation by 
R. Stephen Lutterbach 
Chairman Emeritus, Director and Founder of The Leap Partnership 
An Entrepreneur's Instincts 
TODAY • 4:30 PM • Jordan Auditorium • College of Business Building 
All Welcome! Reception Following! 
42-35 at intermission. 
Knicks 88 Warriors 75 

Larry Johnson scored 23 points and Allan Houston had 18 as the New York Knicks beat the Golden State Warriors 88­75 Tuesday night for their first road victory in more than a month. 
The Knicks, still without injured Patrick Ewing, Chris Dudley and Buck Williams, also got 12 points from Charles Oakley and 10 points apiece from Chris Mills and John Starks in snapping a string of four straight road losses. 
It was New York's first road win since Feb. 20 at Portland and avenged an 87-82 loss to the Warriors on Feb. 24 in New York. Dudley fractured his right foot in that game. 
Jim Jackson's 19 points led the Warriors, who lost their eighth straight. Donyell Marshall added 10 points. 
New York was in control of the game from late in the sec­ond quarter on and finished up with a torrid defensive perfor­mance, coming up with 13 steals and eight blocked shots. 
Oakley had three steals and three blocks. 
Golden State had 21 turnovers and was outshot from the field 51 percent to 42 per­cent. 
Down 18 at the break, the Warriors made little headway in the third despite the Knicks scoring only 12 points. The Warriors managed only 14 of their own and went into the final period trailing 67-51. 
... 
-
page 20 
• WOMEN'S TENNIS 
The 18th-ranked women's tennis team returns to action today. after an 11-day break, to take on the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. The Irish look to rebound after suf­fering losses in their last two matches to seventh-ranked Texas and top-ranked Florida. 
Michigan is currently ranked 28th in the nation and are the defending Big Ten champions. The Wolverines arc coming ofT their best year ever in 1996-97 after finishing last season ranked 16th. 
The 11-5 Irish have looked good all year and have proven to be one of the top teams in the country. All five of their losses have come against teams ranked higher than them, including three against top 10 teams. 
Number one singles player Jennifer Hall is currently ranked 14th in the country while fresh­man Mkhelh~ Dasso is z:~rd. 
IJail made it to the quarterfi­nal round of the national indoor tournament earlier this winter and has posted two wins against the nation's fifth-ranked player. Agnes Muzamcl from Mississippi. Dasso has compiled 
-
a porfect record so far in her college career at second singles. 
Dasso had her biggest win of her young career against Florida during spring break, defeating the NCAA finalist from a year ago, M.C. White in three sets, 2-6. 7-6. 6-3. Third singles player Marisa Velasco also had a big win against Florida, beat­ing fmshman Whitney Laiho, 6­3, 1-6. 6-2. Laiho was the top­ranklld junior player in the country last year and was uncle-

By TIM CASEY Spons Writer 
feated thus far as a college play­er before her loss to Velasco. 
The Wolverines are a young team whose lineup consists of only one senior. 
Sophomore Brooke Hart occu­pies the top singles spot. Hart is coming off a freshman season in which she compiled an unde­feated 10-0 record at fourth sin­gles in Big Ten competition. Danielle Lund, another sopho­more plays second singles. Lund is having a great year thus far with a 16-5 record overall. 
Junior Tumeka Harris is Michigan's third singles player while sophomore Erryn Weggenman occupies the fourth singles position. The lone senior on the team, Sora Moon, is the 5th singles player. Moon is an all-Big Ten performer who serves as the leader for this young squad. 
Junior Jen Boylan completes the Wolverines lineup at sixth singles. In the fall, Boylan lost to Notre Dame's Kelley Olson in three sets at the Eck Tennis Classic on campus. 
The top doubles team of llart and Lund are currently ranked 50th in the latest Intercollegiate Tennis Association rankings. 

In the teams' meeting last year, Notre Dame pulled out a tight 5-4 decision. Moon defeat­ed Velasco in three sets at sec­ond singles, 2-6, 6-4, 7-6. In another close match. Weggenman topped Kelley Olson at fifth singles, 7-5, 6-4. 
The Irish had no trouble at third or fourth singles in match­es featuring players who will face off again today. At third singles, Tiffany Gates beat Harris by a decisive 6-1. 6-1 margin while Kelly Zalinski knocked off Hart 6-4. 6-1 at fourth singles. 
COORDINATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY needed to implement a 
ministry responsive to the spiritual, personal and social needs of 
Catholic youth in a middle-class 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, 
LA. An integral part of this ministry will include recruitment, devel­
opment and training of volunteer youth workers and collaborative 
work with a large parish staff consisting of clergy, religious and lay 
persons. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum of three years' 
experience in working with teenagers, and a degree in theology, 
youth ministry, pastoral studies, communications, guidance, or the 
equivalent in education and/or experience. Benefits include medical 
and disability insurance and retirement plan. Send resume and refer­
ences no later than April 15, 1998 to: St. Thomas More Catholic 
-
Church, 11441 Goodwood Blvd., Baton Rouge. LA 70815; or FAX 
us at (504) 275-1407, Attn: Father John Carville. You can also con­tact us hy e-mail at STM02@compuserve.com. 

Drop-In Volleyball RecSports will be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Wednesday night for the rest of the semester. Play will be from 8 to 11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Come by yourself or bring a friend. Open· 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. You must register in advance for the class and sign-ups began March 19 at RecSports. The fee is $20 and no experi­ence is necessary. Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. 
to all Notre Dame students, fac­ulty and staff. 
Modern Dance -RecSports will be sponsoring a Modern Dance class that will meet Sundays from 3 to 4:30 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 
p.m. in Activity Room 2 of the 
SextAcd AssatAit Awa~eJI\ess Week 
Wom11 Witb Wings 
SpoV\so~ed by CampV\s .AIIiaV\ce fo~ ~ape elimil'1atioV\ 

F l"i. Mal"ch 2 7 WomyV\ With WiV\95 -Chol"eopoem iV\ Two Acts 3:00 pm t-lesbvt~"9h Libl"a~y .Avtditol"ivtm 
Co-Spol'\so~ed by the Womel'\'s ResotA~ce Cel'\te~ & C\el'\de~ St~Adies 

Wednesday, March 25, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• TRACK 
Shay paces U.S. team to seventh-place finish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Cross Country Championships, did, and that's probably why it Piane referred to an added marked improvement for the Sports Writer was the first of six Americans came as such a shock to me," handicap which non-Africans freshman, with this pace being on the team to cross the finish said Shay. "I guess how well I face in the race. Many birth faster than he ran for a 5,000­
In a race between the U.S. line. He was also the highest­did didn't really hit me until records in African countries meter track race last month in and the rest of the world, placing non-African runner, the next day." are incomplete or inaccurate, the Meyo Invitational. Notre Dame freshman Hyan finishing 20th overall. "I don't think there's been so some African runners may "I talked to a lot of the Shay of Central Lake, Mich., Running powerhouses any American that's placed not be true juniors. senior Americans, and got a led the U.S. to a seventh-place Ethiopia and Kenya took first higher than that in the past Shay's time for the 8,000 lot of advice," said Shay. "It finish with his breakthrough and second place, respective­decade, so that's awfully meter course (4.98 miles) in was just a total learning expe­running performance. ly. good," said Notre Dame head Marrakesh, Morocco, was rience. I think I grew in every 
Shay. representing the U.S. "I don't think anybody cross country and track coach 24:22, well under five minutes way I possibly could. It was 
in the World Junior Men's expected me to do as well as I Joe Piane. per mile. This demonstrates beyond anything I had imag­ined. Now I have an idea of what I have to do if I want to move up to the elite level." 

Shay, a top cross country runner at Notre Dame, will take to the track for the out­
Clarity Consulting, Inc. 
Looking for a career in a small but nationally-recognized consulting firm? 
door season with the Fighting Irish, after not competing for Clarity Consulting, Inc., with offices in downtown Chicago, specializes in the design 
Notre Dame in the indoor sea­son in order to retain his yearand implementation of leading-edge Windows-based client/server information of eligibility.
systems. Clarity will be discussing career opportunities in an on-campus presentation. 
"I think you're going to see a very confident cross country --Clarity is a young, talented, entrepreneurial company that has extensive experience 
runner next fall," said Piane. in custom application development, strategic planning, technical design and 
"I think this will give him project management within the Fortune 500 community. additional confidence, and I think he'll do very well in out­door track this year. We'll 
--Clarity is a Microsoft Solution Provider Partner. 
have to wait and see." 
TIME: 7 pm-9 pm  
~j!Tf  PLACE: Morris Inn, Notre Dame Room  
~NiUlTING  *Refreshments will be served.  
Partner···  

--Clarity consultants have diverse educational and technical backgrounds, including Computer Science, Engineering, Business, and Liberal Arts. 
If you want an exciting career which offers continuous challenges and a great future, mark our presentation on your calendar. Visit www.claritycon.com for more information. 
DATE: Thursday, March 26th 
~~e~el~ ,~ ~, f'll , • .,~ ~~14 ~ ..~ t.~ek ~'A 1'A1'~) 
ef4t, 

I 0 ~OPPy /; "\O ~OU/JJ
·----'1-Je'( ,,
You spoke.

."t'nd 0 Give 
We listened. 0 Beginning the Fall Semester of 1998,
I I 
Notre Dame Food Services 
0 will offer an alternative 
to the traditional 
I I I 
21 Meal Plan. 
~ We call it Flex 14 . 

•
To Sign up just bring your current Notre Dame ;~ Card to either North or South Dining Hall lobby between 

-
March24-27 
from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m . . 
-

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
a year ago. Notre Dame small forward

Bookstore 
Derrick Manner and his team 
Wax check in at number six with 

continued from page 24 
SFH3, Bolivian Yaks, No Limit, and So Solid rounding out themany of till' tPai11S in this year's top 10. 

tournanwnl." 
However, the tournament isIrish wide recnivnr Bobby 

n~ally up li.>r !,>Tabs as Primetime

Brown and tight-end Jababri 
provnd last year. 

llolloway lead tlw fourth seed, "Nobody is going to rememberStill Muddy. whilP No. 5 who the number-one seed was.
Malicious PrOSIH'U lion rea turns 
but they will remember who

Neil .lakobn. a first teamer lhHn wins in the end," said Jani. 
1998 Bookstore Basketball Rankings 
1~·· Primetime 
2. 
Mickey's 

3. 
Full House 


4. Still Muddy ·· 5. Malicious Prosecution 
6. Wax ~4 7. SFR3 
8. Bolivian Yaks 9~p Limit 
1 O •...···So Solidi).
11.Runk Fun l 
12.80'~,~ 
~~om\ 

···~ :I iy of ~~~
:ct 
• :\1,0 17.~~~:e' 
·\/ 18.~k;ackers 
19. Feitl~l Lasagna 
20. 
Show Me The Money 

21. SoJBier&. 
22. E.a.o. 

23. 
Slow Your Roll 

24. 
Dirty .Sanchez 

25. 
Grumpy Old Dudes 


26. StirIt Up . 
27. Tastefully Done 

28. AA Is For Quiters 
ng 

* The Most Affordable Student Housing * 


Christmas in April Benefit Run 
'~ ~ 10\tt 1\lJ!lllm Plus 2-Mile WalK ~ ~ 'Saturdai, Marc.h ~S, 11:00 AM ~ 'Stepan Center 
T-~int~ to a\\ ~~1n11 antr, ~gir,ter in Mvant.e at ~t.'f>port& ~~ ... 
$(,.00 In Mvant.e or $1.00 Da1 of \Z-aG~~.;-{ "' ~dent and 'f>taff Divisions '~~J • 
-
N\ 'Proc.ud& to ~enefit ~tlwJt, ~In ~1 
Sponsored By 
-
Z?-~ 


Baseball 
continued from page 24 
a shutout." 
After allowing the home run 
to Cincinnati's ninth hitter, 
who entered the game with a 
.212 batting average, Kalita 
settled down to allow only one 
other hit and a walk in three 
innings of work. 
"I just tried to get the job done," Kalita said. "I threw a bad pitch. but then I just tried to get back in it. Obviously we wern a little rusty, but we just wanted to get the win." 
The Irish manufactured a run in the sixth inning when .Jeff Perconte led off with a walk and stole second. After 
J..J. Brock !lied out to center field, Wagner drilled a single to center, scoring Perconte. 
In their half of the eighth, the Bearcats' Craig Tewes walked and stole second with one out. After Notre Dame's third pitcher of the game, Aaron lleilman, struck out Cincinnati cleanup hitter Kevin Youkilis, the Irish walked Matt Singer intentionally to put run­ners on first and second. lleilman then got Jeff Leytze to hit one right back to him for an easy play at first to end the inning. 
Dan Leatherman led off the Irish eighth with a line drive that held up for Singer in left field. Perconte then walked but Brock popped up to the catch­cr. With two outs, Cincinnati head coach Brian Cleary -a former Irish assistant ­brought in James Steele to pitch to Wagner. The Irish catcher pulled a 2-2 pitch over the left field fence for a 3-2 Notre Dame lead. 
"I didn't know if that one was going," Wagner said. "It wasn't a no-doubter. I figured he'd throw an off-speed pitch, and he threw a change up. It wasn't in a bad location, I just got the fat part of the bat on 
it... Heilman retired Cincinnati in order in the ninth, striking out the last two batters of the ball­game to earn the victory and 
improve his record to 3-0. 

Notre Damn will be back out at Eck the rest of the week with games against Indiana Tech Wednesday and Friday, a doubleheader with Northeastern Illinois Thursday and three weekend games with Gnorgntown. 
"Let's go play ball," Wagnnr said of tho stretch. "It's timn to go get 'om. Whnn we start swinging the bats, there's no telling what'! I happnn." 
The Observer: We've still got issues. 
Looldng for a great job for your senior yearI 
The Alumni-Senior Club is now 
accepting Bartender and D.J. 
applications. 
Apply.,~ktoday 
at the Student ':;i 
Activities Office 
0 0
('31 5 iiJf .. LaFortuner·for 


the!ii!job on campus! 
a 
U --PJJF-a 
Wedneday, March 25, 1998 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
The Observer • TODAY 
page 23 
DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

IT'S EXACTLY LIKE 'YOUR CUBICLE 13UT MUCH LE.55 
CLUTTERED. 
55 To such an 
extent 57 Circus follower 58 Sovereignty, in 
Sussex 59 Struggle 60 "No problem" 61 Chang, 
alternatively 
DOWN 
1 Celeb often seen in supermarket tabs 
2 Put to rest 3 Porridge 
ingredient 4 Simple sugar 5 Budget subj. 6 Kid's present, 
perhaps 7"48--" a Resight 9 California 
artist's colony 10 Drive-in diner supplies 11 Bird: Prefix 12 "Las Meninas" painter 13 Tennis 
maximum 14 Discontinued 20 Tennis's 
Lacoste 24 Sportscaster Cross 
28 Picnicked punch? 
Puzzle by Matt Gaffney 
30 How some business deals are made 
31 View from Syracuse 33 Mlle., across the Pyrenees 
35Gameaim 
36 Loses it 
38 "Tommy Boy" co-star 39 Ticked states 40 Warsaw Pact 
member, 
initially 

SCOTT ADAMS to move on after you have got­ten so comfortable. 
HE.Y, ALL MY STUFF IS 
Virgo: It's allright if your feet IN THE. TRASH CAN.' 
leave the ground for awhile, as long as you Come Down in Time to take the next step. Partners need to match their stride on
I====:;;:J THAT'S A 
solid ground today. Solo fliers
FUNN'Y 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. If you dare. 

EUGENIA LAST 

Celebrity birthday is Elton John. He was born in 1947. 
Aries: Today you could make The Greatest Discovery about yourself and still not be able to interest others. You have an easier time when you focus out­ward instead of inward. 
Taurus: Everyone seems to be singing Your Song today. The music of your life turns brisk, happy, and sweet. There is no reason to question your sudden popularity-enjoy it for what it is. 
MIKE PETERS Gemini: It may be time to say Goodbye Yellow Brick Road as you face the reality behind a cherished illusion. Continuing on the current path will only waste your time. 
Cancer: The longer view is easy for a High Flying Bird. You like what you see, and you are eager to explore further. This is a day to bond and soar with other members of the flock. 
Leo: You're So Static today that any sudden changes will leave you far behind. Children and other high-spirited people lose patience with you. It's hard are doomed to loneliness. 
Libra: All the Nasties are 
lined up today, waiting to hap­
pen at your first wrong move. 
Be careful what you say and 
who is present when you say it. 
Scorpio: This Song Has No 
Title, but why do you need a 
label for everything? Have a fun 
day along the slippery borders 
of definition. Your mind is 
broadened by people and expe­
riences released from their cat­
egories. 
Sagittarius: Today you see 
more of the Bad Side of the 
Moon than the good. Things will 
be easier if you let family mem­
bers help you put it all back 
together. 
Capricorn: The bars of The Cage bend easily today. You can talk your way out of or into any­thing. Artists will have an inspired and productive day as all the old creative blocks dis­
solve. 
Aquarius: The Pisces Moon is shining down on the Midnight Creeper, who is working late to make up for poor planning. Correct an embarrassing mis­take in secret. Wounded pride teaches a memorable lesson. 
Pisces: The fate of a Candle in the Wind may be precarious, but the flame certainly has a lot of oxygen available. If you have any problem today, it is too much of a good thing. 

-
... 



DILBERT 
''PERSONAL 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Son of Noah 
a Book sizes 
15 Con artist 
16 Upstart 
17 Electric horns 
18 Camper 
19 Actor Priestley 
et al. 
20 Frosted 
21 "Rin Tin Tin" 
shower 
'(OUR CUBICLE. HA5 5EE.N REPLACED ()'Y A 
HABITAT. II 
22 Bread and drink 23 Kings and queens, e.g. 25 Pulitzer 
dramatist Akins 26 Enduring 28--pura 29 Kenyan 
president beginning 1978 
32Cutloose 33 Overwhelms 34 Confessed 36 Prince Philip's 
birthplace 37 Patron saint ot France 38 TV's George 
Jefferson, e.g. 41 O.E.D. ender 42 Thomas 
Moore's homeland 43 How some are 
left 45 Menu words 4&Rough-­47 City NWot 
Mascara 51 Kicks 52 Census data 53 Elegant garden 
feature 
THING TO CALL '<OUR 
PER~NA.L 
STORAGE. 
UNIT. 


43 Mozart subject 50 Longtime follower
440ut 
54 Neuron part 
46Aiot 
56 Gb one way or 
48 Pardon 

the other 49 Full of lively 57 Has a green gossip light 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available tor the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-
SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
• WOMEN's lACROSSE 
Irish rebound from two losses to defeat Duquesne 
By GENE BRTALIK "This was a good win for us, espe­that, the Dukes tied it up. each from Grace, Callahan (who also Sports Writ<·r cially coming off those two losses last Notre Dame then found the back of had three assists in the period) and week," Callahan said. "Plus it is our the net two more times to take a :~-1 O'Shaughnessy. 
Tin~d of bPing bullied around as it first home win." lead. Like before, Duquesne's Danielle Wilderman had bet~n during its last two home Head coach Tracy Duquesne tied it up at ended her team's seoring drought with games, the women's lacrosse team Coyne was also pleased the 21:31 mark in the 24:51 remaing in the game. From that 
'WHEN THE SCORE 
decided to do some bullying itself in a with the result. first half. Senior tri­point on, the teams tradml goals with 17-9 victory over 
"The team played WAS TIED WE RG-captain Eileen Regan senior Holly Michael netting tlw team's Duquesne U nivorsity. very well today," she URED THAT IT WAS TIME TO then weaved her way final goal. 
The Irish were led by said. "We needed to through the Dukes' "We felt that we were intimidated junior tri-captain learn from our mis-PICK UP THE PACE AND defense and scored coming into those otht~r games, and Kerry Callahan's takes, so we set goals START SCORING GOALS.' Notre Dame's fourth our main goal was to have confidence four goals and four and throughout the goal. going into the game. When the score assists as well as game we accomplished After the game was was tied we figured that it was timo to 
freshman Courtney them." TRI-CAPTAIN KERRY CALLAHAN tied 4-4 at the 10:51 pick up the pace and start scoring Calabresn's four The game was a mark in the first half, goals," Callahan said. goals. The win ends back-and-forth struggle early on and it Notre Dame took the lead for good. The 17-goal output was the second a two-ganw losing looked as if the Irish may let anohter The Irish opened the flood gates and largest for the team this yoar, but also 
streak for the Irish and is their first one slip away. They took a 1-0 lead on what followed were nine consecutive home win of the season. a goal from Callahan, and shortly after goals -three from Calabrese and two 
• BASEBALL 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Freshman Aaron Heilman struck out three and walked two without yielding a hit in two innings of work to earn the win Tuesday. 
Wagner's home run tames Bearcats 
... 
(1 0-7} to a 3-2 win over the "He wa!> out there because breaking pitches for strikes."
Two-run shot Bearcats (4-15) at Frank Eck he's probably their best With the Irish scheduled to Stadium. It was Notre pitcher," Mainieri said. "He play seven more games Dame's eighth victory in nine was just wild enough to through Sunday, Mainieri
gives Irish 
games since February 25. make it tough on us. We pulled Shilliday after four "We were fortunate to couldn't hit and run because innings to save the pitcher
eighth win in 
win, head coach Paul if he threw it up around the for Saturday's doubleheader Mainieri said. "We did what batter's eyes, our guy against Georgetown. Tim we needed to do. They didn't couldn't swing and they Kalita came in and promptly
n1ne games 
give us much. We had to could throw the runner out." allowed a single to Kevin earn it. They made tremen­Irish starter Alex Shilliday Wilson and then a two-run
By DAN CICHALSKI 
dous plays." pitched even better, allowing homer to Matt Bechtol on a
Senior SraffWrirer 
Leading the baffling one hit and a walk in four 1-2 pitch. Bearcats was starter Casey innings while striking out "It wasn't a very smart
For the first time in two 
McEvoy, who entered the three. In his last three out­pitch," Mainieri said of theweeks, the weather held off game with an 0-12 career ings, Shilliday has allowed home run delivery. "(Bechtol) 
for a Notre Dame baseball 
record and 8.20 ERA, includ­only one earned run and had bunted two strikes, andgame and the Irish just man­ing 0-4 and 6.66 this season. three walks while striking Jeff called a change up,
aged to hold off the 
In six innings of work, out 22 in 16 2/3 innings. instead of (Kalita's) best
University of Cincinnati 
McEvoy walked four Irish "I felt a little rusty today," pitch. You take away thatTuesday evening. 
hitters and gave up three Shilliday said. "It was hard pitch, and I think we'd have
Three strong pitchers and 
hits but only one run to leave to get my rhythm, but I wasone strong swing from catch­the game with a 2-1lead. pleased I could throw my
er JolT Wagner led the Irish see BASEBALL/ page 22 see LACROSSE/ page 18 
• BOOKSTORE XXVII 
Tourney's top 32 teams announced 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sporrs Editor 
It's that timn of ynar again. Bookstore Baskt~tball XXVII ofli­eially got undnrway last night with the announcing of thn top 32 tournament teams. 
Last year's Cind!lralla team, Primetime, earnnd th1~ numh<~r­one sned af'tnr their historic linal four run of a ymtr ago. As thn 27­seed in last year's tournament, Haam Jani and company mtrnnd the respnct of this y1mr's commis­sioners by playing their way into the final four befom losing to Dos Geses. 
"We're hoping to play like the number-one seed," said Jani who was named to the All-Bookstore second tnam last ymtr. "Wn rnal­izn there am a lot of tmtms in thn field that could beat us on a given day, so we have to prove we deserve to bn numbt~r one." 
The all-Stanford llall tmun will return four players from last year's squad and feature .!ani at shooting guard along with tlw Hughes brothers, Kevin and Kyle, at the forward positions. Steve Craig, who earned All­Bookstore first team honors for his performance last year, returns at the center position. Newcomer Garrett Ganske replaces Mike Empey at point guard. Empny is out with a bro­ken leg. 
Dos Geses, last year's t:hampi­on, is down to uno Gese and has re-emerged as Mickey's. They return junior sharpshooter Alex Gese, Hyan llcaly and Notre Dame punter llunter Smith. 
Tim Ridder will take a break l'rom anchoring Notre Dame's offensive line to lead his team Fullllouse, as the third seed. 
'They have three monsterous players," Jani said. "Their size will cause a lot of problems for 
see BOOKSTORE/ page 22 

~ 
Indiana Tech at Michigan, 
}!
Today, 4 p.m. 

Today, 4 p.m. 
~: 
aJ •Garrity to compete at Final Four 
at Hobart, 

Track and Field ~ 
see page 16

~ 
Saturday, 2 p.m . 
., at Purdue Invitational ••
at Davidson,

-March 27-28 •Softball splits opening day pair
~

wjJ 
Friday, 7 p.m. 
see page 18

Softball vs. Concordia,
at Duke 

s,~ 
Today, 1 p.m. ,.. ··~ Today, 3 p.m. 
,l! 
~ 








