
• Scene takes a look at use and effects of the 
• Parisian teenagers riot to protest overcrowding in 
Tuesday

nutritional supplement, creatine. 
their school system. 
OCTOBER 13, 

Scene ·10-11 

World &Nation • 5 
1998 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 37 


Chambliss brings theater to locals 
By JOHN HUSTON N,·ws Wrirrr 
After building his own careN in the PntPrtainnwnt industry. Notre Dame sPnior Dan Chambliss is helping up­and-coming Midwestern students build theirs. 
Originally a rnmnh<~r of the class of IIJ7!i, Chambliss dropped out of Notre DamP during his senior y<mr to pur­sue a canwr in show business. After SPVPral stints in acting, Chambliss lw camP a !'as tin g director. most notably casting such efforts as the Oprah Winfrey movie "There are no Children llere," as well as the Michael .Jackson music video "Jam." In August, Chambliss, now 45, returned to Notre Danw to complete his educa­tion. 

Since returning, Chambliss has undertaken several projects benefit­ing underprivileged local youths. Last y11ar, he was elected president of the South Bend Urban Arts Company, an amat1~ur volunteer troupe which per­forms various theatric produetions. 
Chambliss is also working fur Lincoln Elementary School in South Bend to build a drama workshop for children interested·· in the performing arts. 
"I try to get them to work on origi­nal pieces," Chambliss said. ''I've written two or three plays for them to work on." 
Chambliss encourages the young students to write their own works, in addition to performing one play each 
see THEATER I page 4 
'Tri'·ing times for an artist... 

WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER New offering will help combat stress 
By LAURA ROMPF News Wrirer 
The University Counseling Center just started a Sf~ries of monthly columns that will offer new perspectives on enhancing acade­mic life, personal growth and mental health. 
"In academies. not many malize that one's mental attitude makes a dill'emnce in aeade­mie performance," aceording to an announcement from the eounseling eenter. 
'OBSESSING ABOUT WHAT MIGHT HAPPEN TO YOUR GPA TAKES AWAY FROM YOUR FOCUS ON SHOWING 
WHAT YOU KNOW.' 
S11WSS WOIIKS/101' I'UIJI.ICA TION, 
l!NJVERSJn· CouNSEI.ING CENTER 

"Many students will not work on improv­ing their produetivity by working on the way that they think or work, rather they f'oeus only on how much time they are putting into their work," it eontinued. 
To combat this probl!~m. tlw University Counseling Center has recently ol'l'ered workshops for students ofl'ering to help tlwm maximize their acadernie perl'orman1:e by teaching them nnw techniques. Four of these include eonditioning oneself to tlw work­spaec, beeoming proenss-ori1mtml ratlwr than outcome-oriented, handling aead1~mic sntbacks and dealing with anxiety. 
The workshop will explain that condition­ing oneself to the workspa1:n nwans choosing an area that will only be used for aeadnmie work. 
"In this way," the statmnent said, "you ew­atn a dynamic in which tlw place is associat­ed with work and so your productivity 
see STRESS I page 4 



Social space discussion dominates meeting 


By FINN PRESSLY News Wrirrr 
DPbate over the place of student involve­nwnt in allocating campus soeial space topped the agenda at yesterday's meeting of the Campus Life Council. 
A resolution eneouraging the Office of Stud1mt Affairs to inr.rnase the amount of soeial space on campus and securing stu­dPnt involv<~ment in sueh improvements was proposed by Matthew Mamak, ~:hair­man of the community life committee. 
''I'm coneerned that if Student Affairs has alrnady recognizml this as something they want to look into, why do we need a reso­lution?'' asked Student Union Board man­ager Hyan Stncz. 
Mamak responded that he while realized that the issue has already been addressed by Student Affairs, he felt that a resolution from the CLC would formalize their posi­tion on the issue. 
"It does show our stance as a community body.... We want to reeognize this as a Campus Life Council," said Mamak. 
The next point debated by the council focused on the amount of student involve­ment in the planning of future campus social space. 
"It could be that the current situation and current needs need to keep students involved, and for there to be any value, students always need to be involved," said Father David Shiedler, rector of St. Edward's llall. "I suspeet the need for social space will evolve over the years. I don't see the value of putting a resolution in place." 
Bill Kirk. assistant vice president for Residence Life, said that students would be involved in the consultation portion of the process, rather than the actual decision­making, which is up to those with the ulti­mate financial responsibility, such as the University officers. Kirk also noted the sue­
page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Controlling 

Tuition 
Notre Dame's massive endowment now totals $1.8 billion. This investment fund has grown 20 percent each of the last three years, apparently providing more money than the University knows what to do with. 
Rather than using the endowment's sizable appreciation to immedi­ately fund University operations, almost all of the growth is reinvested to fuel further accumula­tion, leaving tuition 
Derek Betcher increases to bear rising Assistant News Editor costs. 
During the last twelve months, costs of attending Notre Dame rose from $27,200 to $28,700. At the same time, the endowment grew $288 million, and amazingly only $35 million of that was actu­ally spent. The rest was reinvested. Such financial conservatism strongly contrasts the sizable tuition increases confronting Notre Dame students year after year. 
The unnecessary fiscal caution of endow­ment planners constitutes an especially costly manifestation of the University's excessive conservatism. The Investment Office says it fears spending too much money and shrink­ing the endowment, but in today's era of unusually low-inflation and historically bull­ish capital markets, the only real tradeoff lies between increasing either the payout or the principle. It's a choice between productive funds and protected funds. 
Facing this decision between helping stu­dents of today or students of tomorrow, future Domers seem to be winning. Winning big. The University's responsible planning may sound attractive to the Class of 2015, but it offers no consolation to families who watched this year's tuition increase $1500. Efforts to control tuition growth stumble when they collide with the goal of preserving the endowment's principle. This is far too bullish a financial era to let abstract worries about global depressions shortchange today's students. 
The Investment Office projects to spend only five percent of the endowment every year-and again, that's nearly one-quarter of a billion dollars unused and reinvested from 1997 alone. This misallocation takes place in the name of caution. 
Who controls these payout rates and con­tinually approves stingy spending formulas? The Investment Committee of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees-hardly a group noted for its progressivism and attentiveness to students' concerns. 
"It's not fair to save all of the money for students tomorrow," University vice presi­dent Jeff Kantor told The Observer last fall. "It's a tradeoff you have to wrestle with." 
That grappling match is far too one-sided, however. Notre Dame needs to reconsider its priorities and increase its endowment payout to benefit the campus now. Long term finan­cial responsibility is commendable, but not when planners take such a long view that they lose sight of their immediate duty to ensure a rewarding and affordable education for current students. Notre Dame risks not becoming the institution it hopes to be when alienating the students of today with suffocat­ing costs in the shadow of a richly productive and untapped endowment fund. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODJW's STAFF 
News Derek Betcher Scene Noreen Gillespie 
Sarah Dylag 
Molly Nikolas 
GraphicsSports 
Ken Kearney 
Brian Kessler 
Lab Tech 
Viewpoint 
Meg Kroener 
Eddie Llull 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe As~ociared Press. All n:production righrs are reserved. 
Tuesday, October 13, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Student walkout urges improvements in campus diversity 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. Although the department of 
Yesterday, as the nation recog­American culture offers classes on nized Christopher Columbus' voyage Native American studies, Joe Reilly, to America, university students co-chair of NASA, said a separate walked out of class at 11:45 a.m. department is essential to a school and gathered on the Diag at noon to that emphasizes diversity. celebrate Indigenous People's Day. "There is a lot of talk about diver­
Student groups such as the Native sity," said Reilly, an SNRE junior. American Students Association and "Yet to be truly diverse (the Alianza hoped to use the event as a University) also needs to be inclusive springboard for advancing aware­and have places for native students 



"Over the years, assimilation hasness of Native American issues on been replaced with a conscious deci­campus. 
sion to change back," Martin said.
Although the rally acknowledged "Our parent's generation was raised
past struggles faced by Native 
to say they were not Native
Americans, the focus was on making campus improvements to benefit the 
Americans. Now this generation embraces their culture and is trying
more than 220 Native American stu­to rebuild it."1'dents in the University community. 
Native American students hope toShannon Martin, Native American 
embrace and learn more about the
coordinator for Multi-Ethnic Student native culture through developing a
Affairs, said students' desire Native American Studies
increase Native American aware­
Department.

ness at the University stems from 
student's pride in their culture. 
• UNIVERSITY OF WYOMING 

Gay student dies from brutal beating 
LARAMIE, Wyo. 

Matthew Shepard died at 1 a.m. Monday morning at Poudre Valley Hospital in Fort Collins, Colo. from injuries sustained during a beating Wednesday. Shepard, 22, was a University of Wyoming political science major. Russell Arthur Henderson, 21, Aaron James McKinney, 22, Chastity Vera Pasley, 20, and Kristen Leann Price have been arrested and charged in connection with the murder. Henderson and McKinney allegedly kidnapped Shepard from the Fireside Bar Wednesday. They allegedly tied Shepard to a fence one mile northeast of Laramie and beat him with the butt of a .357 magnum and left him to die. Passing bicyclists found Shepard almost 18 hours after the beating. Henderson and McKinney will appear in court Oct. 13 at 2 p.m. for a preliminary hearing and Pasley, who waived her arraignment, will appear in court Oct. 15 at 11 a.m. 
• PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Security tightens for Homecoming 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Homecoming security is being heightened this year because in previous years security has been unreliable, a committee chair said. "In the years past, it seemed (secu­rity members) would ask the (Homecoming) overall chair what to do when they should have been at their station doing their job," said John Dalesio, Homecoming security chair. Dalesio said some internal changes were made to security procedures to make this year as safe as possible. Security team members have been better educated, Dalesio said, so they can work more independently. The increased security is not intended to affect the spirit of Homecoming, he said. Each competing organization par­ticipating in Friday's parade submitted five people to be part of the security team, Dalesio said. The members met Tuesday night to organize and learn their positions within the team. 
and students of color." 
Reilly said having such a depart­ment would facilitate a more thor­ough exploration of history than what is available to students at this time. 
"The perspective you get most, and the perspective you get at the University, leaves out Native peo­ples," Reilly said. "In order to get our side heard. we need Native pro­fessors and new focuses of study, instead of the Eurocentric one." 
• RUTGERS UN!VERS!TY 
Student dies after alcohol-related fall 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 

A 20-year-old University student was pronounced clinically dead yesterday from head injuries sustained after a Thursday night fall down the basement stairs of his fraternity house. College of Engineering junior Jason Greco, a resident of the Theta Chi fraternity house on Mine Street, and several friends are believed to have spent Thursday evening at the Olde Queens Tavern , where he was served alcohol. Greco was kept on life support yesterday at Robert Wood Johnson University Medical Center to keep his organs viable for dona­tion. Middlesex County Prosecutor Glenn Berman said Greco is believed to have had beer and may have had other alco­holic beverages at the tavern. lie said there is no evidence Greco had taken any other intoxicating substances. It is not yet clear how Greco, who is under the legal drinking age. obtained alcohol at the tavern, but Greco was not known to have been carrying false identification. 
• UNIVERSITY OF flORIDA 
Mandela's advisor speaks to students 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

He was at once diminutive, a lone figure on stage, and enormous, a cog in the wheel that crushed South African apartheid. Ahmed Kathrada, senior politieal adviser to South African President Nelson Mandela, described at the Reitz Union Auditorium on Friday the 26 years he spent in prison for participation in the African National Congress. Before a sparse, awed collection of students and faculty, Kathrada spoke of past injustices, present-day statistics and future expectations for his beloved South Africa. Kathrada did everything but languish while caged in Robben Island prison for a bogus eonvietion of sabotage, he recalled. Aside from submitting to hard labor that caused "blisters and bleeding hands," Kathrada earned degrees in history and South African politics and partic­ipated in hunger strikes with politicized prisoners, he told the audience. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/'-"·--...................................;;.. H 
L 

Tuesday ~59 40 Wedn~sday~ 56 36 
Thursday  ~56  44  
Friday  ~56  44  
Saturday:?v\l._.,.......,..v'  ~  67 46  

4,Q,~9Q.Q~~u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, Oct. 13. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
~ 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Atlanta  52  80  
Austin  62  85  
Baltimore  46  66  
Boston  45  57  
Chicago  45  56  

COLD WARM STATIONARY 

l 
1 Tuesday, October 13, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 I I 

Industry, technology, architecture inspire art exhibit 
Hand-sewing, digital color set apart SMC art displays 
By EMILY McCORMICK N,-w, Wrirn 
Tlw rreatiw gt•nius of artists .IPssica (;ondPk and Marg(~ry Amdur arP now on display in Sai n t Mary's l.i LL II' Tlw atr e (;;tllnry. 
Tlwir Pxhibits. featuring eom­putPr-aidnd work and interac­tivP srulpture, opened Ort. 9 and runs until Nov. h. 
(;ondpk's Pxhibit. "Memory, MarhinPs and ModPrn Lifo," was inspin~d by industry, ter.h­nology and arrhitPdurP. Living in thP industrial rit.ies of Chirago, St. l.ouis and Pittsburgh inlluenced her inter­est in nwchanical artistry, she said. llnr works have a strong visual appeal executed by usn of color, linn and texture, aided by lwr US(~ of computers to gener­ate imag(~S of geometry and technology. 
(;omlek's work is intensive in tlw mediums of painting, draw­ing and print-making. While tlwrn are many vibrant colors in Gondek's most mcm1t pieces, IH~r earlier paintings wnrn mainly donn in earth tonns. 
"I was afraid of color, initial­ly," she said. ller use of com­puters allownd her to experi­nwnt with a vibrant pallet of digital colors. 
Tlw computer b(~camn part of lwr work when she lived in rural Texas. Gondek said1}jHtt because the area was not.. urban, she had to reinvent her source. 
"Tlw dialogue with thP. (:om­puler has become integral to my work," she said, adding that the (:omputer inks she usns are comparable to water colors, but with available technology she can execute fine art painting 
'THE WORK IS A REflECTION ON THE 
PAST, LOOKING TO THE 
FUTURE.' 

MARGERY AMDUR 
AR71ST 

with an industrial printing process. 
"I reim:ent painting with the computer as a means.. " she said. 
The second exhibit on display in the Hammes Gall!lry, Amdur's "Threads of Continuity -A Right to Passage," is a sil­ver mono-chromatic gardnn of dif'ferent-sized, susp(~nded roses. 
"My work has a visual appeal for many, but an undP-rstanding of art and art history is helpful to w~t the real meaning in my art," she said, referring in part to the heavy symbolism in her work. 
The neutral tone in her work is symbolically important, for example, because it reprosents the ghost of what the viewP.r knows. 
"The silver color scheme is part of the tension of the piece, it is a catr.h-22 -it raises the question of what is wrong with this picture," she P.xplained. 
Amdur's display design ern­ales the feeling of a maze, with its free-standing walls creating a sense of dislocation for the v.iewer. 
Suspended roses central to tho display were created by 
hand-sewing window screnn matorial as if it wore bolt fab­ric. Amdur admitl!Jd that stago of tho art-making was very tough on her hands. 
Tho roses hang upside down, and are symbolic of memories, ac(:ording to Amdur. Hoses am hung to dry for preservation, and her roses an~ reprcsenta­Livll of' preserving nwmori11S, she said. 
Amdur elaims an intorest in women's issues, and explained that the work and craft that went into the piece relat11S to the generations of past wonwn who also crafted and worked with thnir hands. 
"The work is a re11ectinn on the past, looking to the futurn," she said. 
The gallery hours arc Tuesday through Friday, 10 
a.m. through noon and 1-4 p.m. On Saturday hours arn 10 a.m. through noon, and the gallery opens from 1-3 p.m. on Sunday. 

Thinknfus 
as your scHool bus. 
semester breaks or heading home for your sister's wedding. it going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For lnfonnation and schedule consult your travel agent or call 
800-833-5555 www.busvme.com 
I lt\IITI=n II~Al1
vi "'iii ii ii.i..;7' ii.iii i i"" 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare &Midway, All Day•.• Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach· Terminals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 15 minutes later) 
4:00a.m. 6:10a.m. 5:55a.m. 6:00a.m. 8:10a.m. 8:20a.m. 8:00a.m. 10:10 a.m. 9:55a.m. 9:00a.m. 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 11:55 a.m. 
12:00 p.m. 2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 1:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 2:55p.m. 2:00p.m. 4:10p.m. 3:55p.m. 4:00p.m. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m. 6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 

Self-esteem an issue for stressed-out students 
By MAUREEN SMITHE among our students. The real tragedy, News Writer though, is that the educators' irrational viow of 'positive self-esteem' not only prevents a 
With the academic year finally in full gear, solution to this problem, but is itself the very the state of student. self-esteem is in question cause," he said. because the stress of school affects almost "Today's child lacks self-esteem precisely everyone and many students hope for suc­because modern educators encourage him to cesses in the classroom to boost their self­dispense with his mind, and to indulge his image. feelings," he explained. 
"Knowing that you put time and effort into a Ghate is developing new methods of encour­paper or project and receiving a good grade aging and promoting self-esteem among stu­really helps build [your] self-esteem for the dents that involve abandoning tlw old tHch­next project," says freshman John Bauters. niques for different, but logical. approaches. 
Onkar Ghate, a Ph.D from the Ayn Rand But Patrick Utz, director of the UnivHrsity Institute, defines self-esteem as having confi­counsnling cnnter, pointnd out that tlHlre aro dence in one's abilities based on efforts to strong support systems throughout the Notre make oneself successful. Dame campus. · 
"It is not of [feelings without cause], but of "What I do notke is the residenee halls and certain knowledge about yourself. 1t rests on the c.lassrooms. Tho teachers and reetors do the conviction that you -by your choices, take an interest in the studPnts, promoting a efforts and actions -have made yourself into very positive atmosphere," said Utz, who the kind of person able to deal with r!:'ality," noted that the University offers a wide range explains Ghate. of counseling programs. 
"It is tht~ conviction -based on the evi­"On a broad level, WH are giving people a dence of your own volitional functioning -vari!lty ol' ehaner>s to sueeeed. Any environ­that you are fundamentally able to succeed in ment that provides various opportunititlS for lif'n and, therefore, are destlrving of that suc­success is positivn. For example, NotrP Dame cess." encourages both musical and athletil: Pxcel­
Ghate questions the state of self-esteem in a lence. The counseling ecnter here does offer school environment. both group and individual counseling," he 
"There is indeed a lack of self-ostcom said. 
You are Invitedlll 
...to the '"Holy Cross Mission Seminar in Phoenix: Andre Ho£Jse Immersion Jan£Jary 2-9. 1999.. Info Night •Wednesday. October 1 ¥tn and Th£Jrsday. October 15th 
•6-7 at the C.S.C. Coffee 



'~r.(.""l'~ ~.•'~~~~~~~~ 
~... 
,.,. 
L .. 

A,.,."""'"" My Co't' l:01nm1111'ry Mcmc~t ~i~1d Ot••..me 
"I was a stranger and you welcomed me." Mt. 25: 38-40 
"We Cannot love God unless we love each other. and to love we must know each other. We know God in the breaking of the bread. and we know each other in the breaking of the bread. and we are not alone an!:J more."-Doroth!:J Da!:J 
The St. Vincent de PaulBring a friend!!!!!! Society's mission is to put faith into action by loving
Any Questions'? 
and serving as Jesus did. 
Call Peggy at 25 1-4906 to 
Come and see how you can have them aswered!!!!! join in this mission!ll 
r 
----~------~~----­
page 4 
Stress 
continued from page 1 
increases." Another method is to become process-oriented. 
"Obsessing about what might happen to your GPA takes away from your focus on showing what you know in every question [on a specific test]," the announce­ments said. 
The third method, dealing with academic setbacks, recommends students not focus on errors they have made, rather to learn from the mistake. 
"If you do [focus on your mis­take], you end up unconsciously rehearsing the error over and over," the statement warned. 
"Instead of recounting the fail­ure, say how it can be successful­ly done the next time," it contin­ued. 
Lastly the statement advises students on dealing with anxiety contagion. 
"When you are surrounded by people who are preparing for exams or papers, such as during midterms or finals," the announcement said. 
"Excessive anxiety can spread like wildfire in the dorm or the department. What happens is students become anxious not because they need to be, but because everybody else is anx­ious." 
To anyone who is interested in these techniques, look for the next workshop offered, call 631­7336, or visit the counseling web site at www.nd.edu/-ucd. 


Theater 
continued from page 1 
semester. The first production of the year, "95th and Vop Street," is scheduled for late November. Last spring, Chambliss undertook a similar school project for Studebaker Elementary in South Bend. 
"I really enjoy working with the kids," Chambliss said. "I enjoy the opportunity to instill proper qualities that [chil­dren] need to have later on in life, such as self esteem." 
Chambliss adds that he cherishes his work as a cast­ing director because it gives him the opportunity to give new careers to people who otherwise might not have been exposed to acting. 
"There's an awful lot of [overlooked] talent in the Midwest," Chambliss said, noting the lack of enthusiasm among local talent agencies to forward the careers of many potential actors. 
Chambliss also hopes that his productions will be diverse and send a meaningful mes­sage to the audience to help break down ethnic stereo­types. 
Chambliss is looking for tutors and mentors from Notre Dame to help with the Lincoln Elementary play this semester. Work on the upcoming production is set to begin after fall break. Dan Chambliss can be reached at 233-3582. 
Look for full coverage of tonight's address by Father Malloy to the University faculty in Wednesday's issue of 
The Observer. 
Tuesday, October 13, 1998

The Observer • NEWS 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
cess of having students partic­ipate in such recent projects as the reno­vations in Morrissey and Sorin Halls, as 'THE WHOLE DREAM OF SOCIAL SPACE IS
well as the construc­tion of the new JUST THAT•••• WE NEED TO CONVINCE 
dorms on West Quad. 
THE UNIVERSITY THAT THIS IS OF SIGNIRCANT 
Shiedler, however, thought that the res-RNANCIAL PRIORITY.' 
olution as printed did not reflect this idea of student consulta­tion. 
"I find that in the resolution, the word­ing of the resolution is asking that the Office of Student Affairs invites student input at the time of the decision. It sounds like it's talking about decision-making, not consulta­tion," said Shiedler. 
Sister Kathy Haas, rector of McGlinn Hall, added that it would be helpful for the resolu­process. 
Tim FitzSimons, chairman of the academic committee, pro­posed a friendly amendment to that effect, which was then accepted by the community lire 

BILl. KIRK future, some CLC VICE PRESIDENT FOR RESIDENCE !./FE members know that 
tion to include a proposed schedule to inform students on when they would have the opportunity get involved in the 
work lies ahead. 
"What we need to know now is how we're going to convince the rest of the administration of this need," said Matt Mamak. 

:t· ¥in•'rrt'2 
ofthe sharp 
. Friday, when ·_ _ USDA's crop «:.••lulat~'::> for corn and soybeans were smaller than expected. Investors bet the government on Tuesday would reportJ1arvesting of the 
·nation's corn and soybean Bro ·· remains well 
...sti>rs were par y c6.ncerned 
a t agrowing stor ... hortage, which comes as exports fell sharpy this year amid a glo}Jal economic crisis that has made U.S. goods more expensive. 
~My~ the five·year pac pJaf1ting of wint(:}l' wheat has p fter rains hel eg r~p!enishbone• .. the Plains. 
The storage shortage could force farmers to sell much of their crop early. despite weak Soybean futures also were pressured rts cash-strapped;.(:;llinese buyers 
.. ..::.:·.=.>?,:::~~===··=::: ;. 
committee. 
The council also made a motion to send the resolution back to the commu­nity life committee for further revision and to renew dis­cussion at the next meeting. 
Looking to the 


after 

have canceled some U.S. cargoes of soybeans. . Wheat also faced continued pressure from the goVernment's prediction that global pro­que · 'Will remain high at a time of weak
d di!l' 
ember wheat fell 6 1/2 cents to $2.90 
1!4 a bushel; December corn fell 1 1/2 cents 
to $2.20 a bushel; November soybeans fell 7 
cents to $5.57 a bushel. 
Coffee futures fell sharply Monday on the 
Board of Trade of the City of New York as 
exports from the world's largest producer 
reached a five-year high, threatening to flood 
the market at a time when roaster demand 
bas been weaker than expected. 
On other markets, frozen concentrated 
orange juice futures rose sharply for a second 
session, while grain and soybeans fell 
sharply. 
Coffee futures tumbled on Friday's report that Brazilian exports for the month of September were sharply higher than expect­ed, as producers there flooded the market with supplies from that country's largest crop in llyears. 
Oeftb-et£tirj T!u Btf~t Pizza,! @3®G1~ ~[b® ~a®~[!! l1rn®~~Gl~BH  
Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 6:00 & 7:30, 11:00-12:30 the price of your the price of your 21arge 1large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call. is the time you call. *Plus tax* Plus tax  
ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-1.177 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted  


FOR TICKET INFORMATION CONTACT THE SAINT MARY'S BOX OFFICE 
(.219) 294-4626 

Tuesday, October, 13, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Satellite to join asteroid orbit 
MADISON 
A small sat1~llitn laundwd morn than two years ago is just weeks from becoming the lirst manmade object to bn placed into an orbit of' a distant asteroid, rnsearchers said Monday. Tlw Near Earth Asteroid HPndezvous, or NEAH. spacecraft will firn rorkets on Ike. 20 to settle into an orbit of' an asteroid 1·aiiPdEros that is streaking arross spacP sonw I(>3 million miles from Ea r t h . Andy C lw ng . a John s II opki n s UnivPrsity f'PSPan·lwr and tlw project scien­tist for NI·:AH. said that all instrunwnts on tlw sp<H't'ITaf't art' working wPII and that tlw small satPIIitP is on target f'or its deep spa1~n IJH'eting wil h l~ros. Tlw rorkPl liring ronws whill' NI~AH is still distant from l~ros, and lhP satl'llitl' will not start orbiting thn astnr­oid until January I0. 191J<J. 
Movie star shoots rare buck 
NI~W DHIII 
01w of' India's most popular movin stars was aJTI'Stl'd Monday. arrused of shooting ran• anll'lopl' during a break !'rom !ilming in a wildlil'l' prPsPrVIL Salman Khan was held without hail l'or alll'gPdly killing two blaek­hurks and a rhinkara, said Alka Kala, tlw WI'SIPrn Hajasthan stall~ 's highest l'ornst offi­,·ial. ThP rhargP of poaching I~!Hlangnrnd wild animals carriPs up to s1wnn years in prison. Memlwrs of' tlw local Bishnoi tribn. who worship tlw endangered hlal'k bucks and rhinkaras. aiPrtPd l'on~st of'lkials to the killings in .Jodhpur. a town about 300 miles southwPsl of' Nl'w lklhi. AnothPr popular al'lor. Sail' Ali Khan. and artrnssns Sonali llPndrP, Tabu and NnPiam wnrn granted hail. of'firials said. Tabu and NePiam usn only tht'ir first namPs. "All wero involved. hut tlw judge found that it was Salman who pulll•d tlw triggPr." Kala said. spoaking from tlw statp's capital Jaipur. 
Da Vinci work returns home 
HOME 
A Leonardo da Vind painting is finally J'Pturning honw to Italy next week. after Jll'arly 200 years in Poland. "Lady with l·:rminn." painted around 1490, will go on display lirst in Home at tho Quirinal Palace, thP building that hous1~s tlw president's ol'lii'P. It will also bn shown in otlwr cities. Polish prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski bought tlw portrait as a gift f'or his mother lsalwlla around IROO while lw was traveling in Italy. Its temporary n~turn from Poland is part of a cultural Pxchange between the countries. The person portrayPd in the painting is thought to be Cecilia Gallerani. a striking figure at the Milan court who was a pol't andf'riend of poets. Slw is shown hold­ing an f!rmirw. 
+101.95 VOLUME LEADERS 
I 1!\fl'-\:S) !It f\llt '1!,!11\:S(j! \ lj.\IN !'!WI 
1>111 I !1MI'I 1 1H~ Pill -ttl. IS +:1.25 Sfl llh t (\( (l "1)'\rt\1\ (,\("() •-l.h2 +l..n ~2.\H \H I WUIU.Il <ll\1 IS< \V(tl\-1 ... _., .. , +2 H 47 .. ll I~ IF I t UHI' IN'It +]')4 + l.h ~ HS.H t IJH,IUHJI'J\l( t ·n ·1·11 -Stl .14.')4 t tl~1f',\t}t:tlMI,UHR\ U'l) ... _,117 +.HI 27..il YAIIOtli~C Yllllll +H.H +H.HI 114.44 \tit RO\OFI" lORI' M\1"1 ...z~7 +2.HH 99.75 AI' Put I> MA IIRIAI A\11\T +l.t.-11! +J 11..1 2b.HI 1\i\AN l OMI'AN't' NV llAANf ·2HH •.J.:tH 1:1.50 
• fRANCE 
Students plea for school iiDproveiDents 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
PARIS 

Angered by elassroom overcrowd­
ing. thousands of high school stu­
dents took to the streets in several 
French cities Monday to demand that 
tlw lnf'tist governmnnt hire more 
teac.hers and buy more equipment. 
Chanting "solidarity," the students 
set ofT at midday from squares in the 
east and south of Paris, and headed 
f'or the Education Ministry, where 
they held a rally in the late aftnrnoon. 
"Through strikes you can dream," 
said stickers thn students slapped on 
lampposts and telephone boxes along 
the way. 
"We're angry students ... and fed 
up with the chaos," others sang. 
Students have been protesting in a 
number of' French cities over the last 
l 0 days, barely weeks after starting 
tho new sehool year. Monday's 
demonstration was tho first in the 
eapital. 
The protests began after students 
returned from summer vacation and 
found little change from the year 
bPfore. Classrooms remained too full. 
and instruction materials. including 
lab equipment, was often in short 
supply. Some students even com­
plained of broken chairs. and of' 
elasses held in prefabricated build­
ings l'or ymtrs. 
Protests were held in more than a 
dozen cities on Monday. with as many 
as I0,000 demonstrators in Paris. 
8,000 in Bordeaux and 7,000 in 
Toulouse. 
Police patrolled the Paris demons­
trations. which are often marred by 
violence. but did not cut off traffie, 
leaving the students to maneuver in 
and out of passing ears. 
Police intervened to disperse hun­
dreds of students who were rampag­shop windows and turned cars over. the group that Allegre has already 
ing through a shopping center in Education Minister Claude Allegre announced the creation of 3,000 
Montparnasse, in southern Paris. said he understood the students' con­teachers for next year and 20,000 
Dozens of others. their faces masked, cerns. but suggested they be patient. student jobs. Allegre is constrained 
stole from music shops and bakeriesl "There will be improvements -but by the Socialist Prime Minister Lionel 
police said. A scooter was set on fire. Paris wasn't built in a day." Jospin's determination to keep the 
Several people were detained in Late Monday. a student delegation budget delieit under 3 percent of the 
Thionville, a town in eastern France, met at the Education Ministry with gross domestic product, as required 
after dozens of students wielding Bernard Toulemonde, director of for the euro single eurrency that 
sticks and throwing stones smashed scholastic instruction. He reminded takes effect at the end of the year. 

House affirms landmark Internet bill, hopes to stop sex criminals on Web 
ASSOCIATED PRESS ty for persuading a minor to engage in prostitution. 
• Allow federal investigations of child kidnapping cases WASHINGTON to begin immediately. 
Pedophiles who find victims on the Internet would face • Increase from 10 to 15 years the maximum pm1nlty new and increased penalties under a bill the House for transporting a minor across state lines for scxunl passed Monday and sent to the White House. activity. 
The administration supports the measure, which the • Prohibit unsupervised access to the Internet by federal House endorsed 400-0. prisoners, encourage state otnclals to take similar steps 
Lawmakers said use of the Internet by more than 10 and require the U.S. attorney general to survey state poli­million children has opened a new window through which cies. pedophiles can terrorize children anonymously. "These predators think that they can hidt) behind the 
"Sex offenders who prey on children no longer need to faceless, voiceless world of the Internet," said Rep. hang out in parks or malls or school yards, ·• said Rep. Asa Jennifer Dunn. R-Wash.. a co-author of the legislation Hutchinson. R-Ark. "Instead they can roam from Web site with Rep. Bill McCollum, R-Fia. "Mak(~ no mistak1~: they to chat room seeking vietims with little risk of detection." are wrong." 
Among its provisions. the bill would: The House originally passed the bill 416-0 in June. Thr 
• 
Establish fines and up to five years in prison for any­Senate amended it last week by deleting a provision for one using the mail, Internet or other means to contact a mandatory lift) imprisonnwnt for eertain serial rapists. minor for criminal sexual activity. Hutchinson said. 

• 
Double from Jive to 10 years in prison the penalty for The Senate also eliminated a three-year minimum term luring a minor to cross state lines for illegal sexual activi­for anyone using a computer to entice or eoerct~ a minor ty, and increase from 10to 15 years the maximum penal· to engage in illegal sexual activity, the congressman said. 



-~ ------~ ---------~-~-­
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, October 13, 1998 
•IRAN 
~~~~~ """-~~~~0 
Tuesday, April21, 6:30p.m., Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's College 
OR 



Group raises bounty for Rushdie's death 
Associated Press President Mohammad 
Khatami has been trying to 
TEHRAN, Iran improve relations with the West 
An Iranian foundation has since he took office last year. His raised its reward for killing government said last month that Salman Rushdie to $2.8 million. it was distancing itself from the firing its first shot at efforts by reward for the author's death. Iran's moderate president to dis­"I, as the head of the Khordad tance his government from the Foundation, add $300,000 to the bounty. reward for implementing the 
The move by the head of the edict," Ayatollah Hassan Saneii Khordad Foundation was a was quoted as saying. The semi­striking show of the .dissention official foundation initially within Iran's fractured govern­offered $2.5 million to anyone ment between hard-liners and who killed Rushdie, a British cit­moderates. izen. 
YOGA
~ 

--A IPHYSIICAL. MIENTAL & 
SP~RJTUAL WORKOUT. ~DEAL FOR 
STRESS MANAGIEMIENT. FLIEXIIIBIILIITY. 
STRIENGTH. 
MONDAYS 10/26-12/7 7-8: 15PM $22 
TAl CHI A WORKOUT THAT UTIILIIZIES THE MOVEMENTS OF NATURIE TO WORK THE PHYS~CAL AND SIPIIRIITUAL SELF. 
WEDNESDAYS 11/4-12/9 5:30-6:20 $20 
REGiSTRATiON BEGINS 7:45AM. WED. 110/114@ THE RSRC. CAll11-59651FOR MORIE !INFO. 
Thursday, Apri123, 5:30p.m., Hesburgh Library Auditorium, Notre Uame 
Saint Mary's 
SfllnlEI BOUND THE WORLD ,__ 
·~~ 

Open to all ND/SMC students 
Challenging academic program at 
Opportunity for trav~l and study
Sacred Heart College in Cochio, India, 
in many countries of the Far East,
focusing on the Asian world 
Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern 
16 semester credits applicabl~ towards 
Europe and Western Europe 
core or major requirements 
INl:ORMATION AND Al'PUCKfiONS AVAIJ.ABI.E SHOIIT VlllEO ON HIGHUGliTS ALUMNI TO ANS\l'ER QUESTIONS 
Any questions, call Dr. C Pullapilly, 284--1468. 
Thinking of The London Program for Fall1999 or Spring 2000? Remember, you must return your completed application to the Program office (103 O'Shaughnessy). You are strongly encouraged to turn in your completed application by 4:30pm on Friday, October 16, 1998. Applications will be accepted until 4:30pm on Monday, October 26, 1998  







VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, October 13, I 998 os~£RvER page 7 
THE OBSERVER 
N<>IHI DAMI 0H1U: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46'556 (219) 631-7471 S,\IN 1 M.~I\Y\ ( l1·11U: 30'J llaggar, Notre !lame, IN 46'556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
Enrron-IN-Ctiii·:F 
Heatht·r Cotb 

MANA<aN<~ Ftu nm BUSINK'iS MANAGER 
l\ri.1n Rc1n1h.dt·r Kyk Carlin 
A."\"ii.\I'ANI' MANA<;JNc, Et>lrt>lt 
llt-.uht•r M.tll<t•nt.it• 
Nt W\ 1·:1>1 ron.. . ........... Mid1dle Krupa AuVEHTISINt; MANA<;ER .............. Kerry McParrlin 
Vi~WI'OINI FI>II'OR ..... hlu.~r<lo I lull All DESI<:N MANAGER ....................... Brett Hucl.tt 
~JIOR 1"i EDII'OR. . ..........., l<.nhlt·cn Lopt:z SYSTEMS MANAGER .......... Michael Brouillet 
St 1Nl EDITOK\ ..............Sar.1h Dyl.1g CONTilOI.IJ-:11 ............................Oave Rogcro 
Kri~11 Kli1~rh WEll ADMINISTRATOR ...................ft-nnifer Breslow S,\JNI MAltY\ EDI!Oit .....M. Sh.mnon 1\y.m GRAI'IIICS Enrron ............................... !'etc Cildla PnoJo FIJI TOR ...............1\.c.:vin !).dum 
l h~· <lh~L·twr 1~ tlw IIHkpentkrH llL'W~jMpcr puhlt~IH:d by rlu: ~ttldl'nt~ uf the Univcr~iry of Notre lhme du l..ll' .md 
,,,tnt ~ l.tr~··~ ( ,,[[q,:L·. It dc1t·~ 11111 Ill'< ,.,,,tttly rt·flt·l t tht· l"'lit·in c>f tht· .tdntini~tr;ttinn ofcithl'r inMitution. 'lflx· JK'WS i.~ 
r~ fl<lrtt·\1 :,, .tuur.ttdy .rn\1 ,,hiL'\·tm.-ly ,,, [>''"''hie. l l,,_,i~ncd ctlitori.tl, tcprl'scnr rlu.· opinion ,,rthe m.ljority'nf rht­
l·dttc•r tn-t 'lud. M.tli.IJ.:IIlf.: hlum, A\\t\t.uH M.m.t~IIIJ.: Fditor .tnd dt·p.trtmcnt editor.~. ConHllCill.lric:!>,lcttcr.s anJ 
,oluntn' prt'\t'lll dt~· \'ll'W' ol the .tuthor\, ,tnd not llt'l'l'1>.\,ltlly thmc ofThe OIN:rvcr. Vicwpoim space is av.til:tblc to all 
mt·mlwr!r> nl dtt' NntH' I l.mwl.\tllll Marv\ LOilllllUnity .md to .til rt·adn,. l'ht· t'rt't' cxprc~~ton nf varying opiniom 
rhrmt,..:h l~·nt·r, '' cllt n~u .tj.:t'd, 
Contacting The Observer 

l·dttllf·tn·(:/liC:f (>.ll-4)42 Bu.<inm Oftlce 6.\1-5313 M.ut.t~mg l·.dt~oriA ....t.. t.lln Ml·. (d 1~4541 Advern~ing 6.ll-6900/8840 Ncw,/PIH>Icl (d 1-132., Sy!-o[Cill.\ 6.31-HH.39 Sport~ 6.li-4S4.l Fax 631-6927 Slt·nc:/Saint M.~ry\ 6.l1-4S40 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.l (i:Vnd.edu I>.1~ hlitor/Vic::wpoint . (>.\J-S.\0.3 Ad E-M.til ohservcr~lldarwin.cc.nd.cdu ( lltiu· Man.l~c:r/(;C"ncr;tllnlormatinn 6.\1-7471 New' E-Mail observc:r.obsnews.l ~ilnd.edu 
• EAT We are Called to Restrain the Media 

For tlw past weeks, tho focus in i\mnri1:a and all over tho world has been 011 l'r!)Sidnnt Clinton and tho releasp, or his videotaped Grand Jury tostimony. Origi11ally, I fnlt that public intcrp,st in Clinton's alTair was purely prurient, and I tlwrnf'orn rd'used to watch the telecasts 
Brittany Morehouse 
in a rather quint but novorllwloss delib­erate form of personal protest. However, sinc<) a week ago Monday, 1 have come to n•alize that tho issues that this prob­lem raises shall not be denied, must hP addressed, and will be debated perhaps ad infinitum in future politieal scinnee textbooks. Appropriately, and in the spirit of' informed citizenship, I have IHJPII f'orcml to consider the tumultuous Clinton/Starr face-ofT, and have arrived at tlm1e basic conclusions. 
First, thorn is a fine distinction. which rnustlw honored. between neeessary and extraneous details. Lines of ques­tionillg which include level of' emotional commitnwnt to one another and details of' Sl)XtHtl conduct do not address specifi­rally evidence that will help determine wlwtlwr a law has bnen broken. Hather, tlwsn arn tangential questions asked by prurient interrogators. Thn Officn of' the lndnpnndnnt Counsel looks to me to be a large group of' white-collar Peeping Toms. Is Clinton !wing held to a reason­abln standard such as is uphnld in our dnrno1:ratic sodety? No way. There is a diff'nrntH:n bntwnen brnaking a law and having an Pxtramarital alTair. So, too, is tlwrn a di!Tnrnnce lwtwmm qunstioning in a dun procnss of law and National f<:tH(Uimr-like smut rngurgitation. 
I am in no way justifying Clinton's actions. I believe his position as President provides a powerful Pxample and unprecedented opportunity to role model across the globe. As such, I wish he would exhibit mature and honorable morality. 
However, it is no secret that political figures have misused their power to gain sexuallfavors for generations. In this, Clinton seems no different than anyone elso, exeept that it happened in a social setting where the "look the other way" attitude of previous eras has been replaeed by a "tell me everything juicy and porsonal, People Magazine-like" mentality. As Patrick Pierce, associate professor of politieal science at St. Mary's, observed, "not only don't we need the detailed information in the Starr Heport, but I think none of it is important for the public to know." 
In the Sept. 28 Observer, Ms. Ashley Lowery argued that "the Clinton scandal is not really about Moniea Lewinsky, this is not about sex." Not true. Sex sells and tho media exploits it. Do you remember when 90210 was about failing tests, lying to parents and stealing each other's boyfriends'? In more recent episodes. Valerie was raped by her father and is ready to have an affair with . her mother's boyfriend. Did I miss some­thing? This is a quantum leap in plot content. 
"Sexcapades" seem to be the only thing that keeps people interested these days. The media's drive to make every­thing an extremely dramatie soap opera and the public's insatiable desire for additional juicy details only eheapens and corrupts America. As NO London correspondent. Laura Petelle, observed, "the seandal has pushed some of the worst aspects of Am1~rican culture into the European living room: it's obsession with sex, its false modesty and prudery when confronted with this obsession and its litigiousness." Lewinsky's deseriptions and eonfessions about Clinton as her "sexual soulmate" are irrelevant to an investigation of Clinton's alleged obstruction of justice. It is no wonder that England columnists label our nation as one that "produces enough pornogra­phy to wallpaper the planet." 
Finally, the combination of having recently watched the film "Wag the Dog" with the explosion of this entire Clinton ruckus has led me to believe that where politicians abide, anything is possible. I wonder if this Clinton Caper has been similarly orchestrated. Last Wednesday, polls indicated that Clinton's ratings, 
T
HE MEDIA, TOO, MUST 
BE HELD ACCOUNT­
ABLE IN THEIR SINGULAR 
PURSUIT OF SCANDALOUS 

SEX LIFS AND VIDEOTAPES. 
after having fallen from 76 percent to 60 percent in September, took a significant leap to 69 percent approval. What if Clinton, ever the masterful politician, foresaw this? Suppose Clinton and his "Spin Doctors", anticipating that the truth would be revealed eventually, held out in their cooperation of the Starr investigation to the point of public exhaustion? It is entirely possible they caleulated that the gruesome details, once revealed, would come after so much relentless pursuit in a ruthless game of party politics, the public would feel sympathy for the badgered President. It has been A Great Hunt, really, and Americans tend to sympa­thize more with the fox than the hound whenever the ehase is on. Indeed, the Hepublican approval ratings have gone down. Wag the Dog is improbable, you say, but not impossible, I contend. 
So, what we have here is an American debacle. There are many warnings and great foreshadowing to be pondered. Which direetion do we want our country to take? Do we want to dismantle the distinction between the right to privacy and duty to public confession'? It seems that the Clinton mess has served a warn­ing to be mindful of the difference between what is proper and necp'ssary for the public to know and what is appropriate and honorable for us to ask a public servant to divulge. The media, too, must be held accountable in its sin­gular pursuit of seandalous sex, lies, and videotapes. How can we inlluence the media to take another direction? Do per­sonal protests sueh as my refusal to watch the videotapes mean anything'? flow ean we inl1uence eongressional rnp­resentatives to take the stance that con­fessions are best left to the dergy, whih1 legal investigations are a difl'ernnt type of questioning altogether? And, finally, how can we prevent politicians from spinning truth in sueh a way that we arn uneasily suspicious of having bnen duped, used, trilled with and manipulat­ed? 
The bottom line: we must conduct our­selves with pride, set a new course of respect and restraint in the media, and demand an honorable approach to gov­erning from our elected leaders. The honor of a new generation !ins within each and every one of us. We do not have to be led where we do not want to go. 
Brittany Morehouse is a sophomore flnglish and American studies major. She is a former Zahm //all resident who is currently homeless and can be found wandering about campus sporting Cleveland indian attire. The Tribe fan can be reached at morehouse. l@nde.edu. 
The views presented in this column are those£~{ the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DooNESBURY 
/1/HAT lf/E K£tP 
HEARING, 511?,1!3 THAT TH& PI/81-IC PJHY5 tvA~ YOIJ 70 S/3E3K THAT? 
f'R{)f£qif0NAt. HEtP,/
ANP IT MAY NOT ~A 8AP 
/1?!5A. \ 
I>­
GARRY TRUDEAU  
/313CAU5e AMa<ICA 15NOtA/ ON& HIJG(;, ROUIN6 R&COI£RY MOV/3MeNT. IF Ya.J G/3TON EJOAR!?t PeOPte MU.. FOR­Give >t:VAtM05TANY!HI/116... \~~  IJ()N/3/tu£U !JOOKH£1< FO!<... \  

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'still I don't know if I've 
a soul, or if heaven's 
where we go, or if hell's 
where we burn, if sinnin's 
what we do.' 

-Dave Matthews 
r 
' 

t VIEWPOINT 
page 8 -----------------------OB~ERVER ----------------Tuesday, October 13, 1998 
• NOT PEACE, BUT THE Swmm • PROGRESSIVE STUDENT AlliANCE Be Not Afraid, The Truth A Call For "Civil Re-Engineering" in Will Set You Free Americas Political Discourse 
There has been a raucous homosexuals and everyone else debate over the past several are protected from the kind of weeks at Notre Dame concern­harassment that we all agree is ing the inclusion of the words deplorable. 
"sexual orien-""!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ Let us fol­
iation" in the ~ low the University mandate of non-discrimi-the Pope-
Sean 

nation policy. "Be not This debate afraid!" culminated in Instead of

v • k 

a "rally" at InC engaging in 
the Fieldhouse Malllast Wednesday. The speakers at this rally bemoaned the fact that the University has not elect­ed to change its discrimination policies. They chortled that they were there to simply promote "tolerance," ignoring the moral and religious ramifications of this policy change. When asked about the moral and religious freedoms whieh might be com­promised by this policy change one PSA member said "Oh, it isn't about that, its about stu­dent rights." This debate has lit-tie to do with student rights­it's the attempt of some left wing activists to undermine the moral foundations of our University. They seek to replace it with a secular institution guided only by relativism. 
What if it could be legally claimed that bestiality is a "sex­ual orientation"? What about the North American Man-Boy Love Association, a regular at most gay-pride functions? They believe that a grown man having sexual relations with a young boy is not pedophilia, that it is a normal "sexual orientation." With the liberals' track record of decriminalizing sexual deviancy, could it not be rational to assume that they will head to NAMBLA's demands and begin to legitimize pedophilia? Most people in the PSA, GLND/SMC, and the College Democrats don't want you to hear about this. I'll bet most people haven't consid­ered the logical implications of our actions, however good our intentions might be. The leftists would have you believe that they are merely working to help peo­pie. Beware of these pushy gay activists, they are dangerous. 
It is wrong for homosexuals to be ostracized from society or abused in any way. That is immoral. Uncharitable acts towards anyone are sinful. The use of hateful terms against homosexuals is deplorable; we must all be vigilant to projeet compassion to our brothers and sisters. regardless of who they are. Hate in any form is contrary to the mission of the Church. 
The Catholic Church has a number of Pastoral Outreach Initiatives to homosexuals. Organizations like COURAGE have made a real difference by assisting in giving homosexuals the Catholic Church's position on their sexuality, guiding them to lives of holiness. Here at Notre Dame, we protect our students against discriminatory harass­ment in accordance with our moral beliefs. In Du Lac, the University defines discriminato­ry harassment as injurious behavior accompanied by "intentionally demeaning expressions concerning the race, gender, religion, SEXUAL ORI­ENTATION, national origin, or disability of the victim." So secular 
political 
protests, we 
should unite under the guidance of the mother church. with humility and yes, DOCILITY -a willing­ness to be taught. 
Fidelity to our religious tradi­tions will bring us all closer to holiness. Vatican II teaehes that all Catholics, lay or otherwise, are ealled to Sainthood. We have a mandate not only to perfect our own souls, but to also evan­gelize, which is the essence of Tertio Millenia Adveniente. In order to achieve this holiness, we must begin lives of prayer, literally walking with Christ. This means that the discord and division that is caused by insidi­ous, pointless political activism a Ia PSA would no longer occur. We would instead have produc­tive, thoughtful discussions of issues informed by the light of faith integrated in reason. 
As I have said, hatred to homosexuals is uncharitable and immoral; we. must always show compassion to other human beings. However, blindness to sin is also uncharitable. While loving and being compassionate to our brothers and sisters, we must be vigilant about lifestyles and behavior that are destruc­tive. The revised Latin text of the Catechism terms homosexu­ality an "objective disorder," and states that homosexual behavior is immoral. A good example is alcoholism. We legally and justly discriminate against alcoholics for good reason. I myself have lost family to alcoholism and believe firmly that although alcoholism isn't sinful in and of itself, yet alcoholic behavior is sinful and destructive. Likewise, while the homosexual inclination is not sinful, homosexual behav­ior is. Instead of a blind "accep­tance" of homosexuals, we· · should display a true compas­sion. This means stating that the practice of homosexuality has led to the destruction of many, physically and spiritually. Catholics must proclaim that we are all called to a life of chastity in the example of St. Maria Goretti; though under no cir­cumstances ean we use our faith as a means to exelude or mar-· ginalize others-the Gospel teach­es wholeheartedly against this. 
The words "Be not afraid" serve as a good motto for our political debates. Our discourse should be conducted under the guidance of informed faith, with­out the taint of unbelief, for as the Gospel says "The Truth will set you Free." 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore PLS major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The Views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must combine the toughness of the serpent and the softness of the dove; a tough mind and a ten­der heart." This statement was originally 

Paul Ranogajec 

intended as a guide for individuals in living their lives with reason, responsibility, and compassion. However, the idea can be abstracted to cover the realm of public dis­course as well. Through the application of the reason. responsibility, and compassion advocated by King's view, we may come to develop a civil, intelligent, and relevant pub­lic discourse, as opposed to the current sen­sationalism and malevolent antagonism that has characterized the forum for some time now. 
Last week, the PSA was attacked everywhere from The Observer, to Right Beason, to the stalls of dorm bathrooms. Spencer Stefko's "Eleven Variations bn a Theme of Progressive Student Alliance," and Right Reason's back cover were the lowest points. (My favorite "variation" from Stefko's column was "Preposterously Schizophrenic Alliance"). It seems neither Right Reason nor Mr. Stefko has bought any stock in civility or truth. 
And, if I may digress for a moment, Stefko claims that he hopes "the administration ignores all student voice on this topic." ("This topic" refers to the issue of adding sexual ori­entation to the university's existing non-discrimination policy). Mr. Stefko doesn't seem to have an idea of what his statement entails. If he does, I cannot imag­ine he would have written it. His remark implies that the administration, which at its eore is dedicated to the maintenance of fair school policy to serve students and faculty, should actively disregard student voice on an issue that directly affects students. To elimi­nate student voice from policy-making deci­sions is a grave ill that is not at all desirable. This is a faet no matter your political persua­sion. 
To get back to the main concern of this eol­umn, I quote Thomas Jefferson: "Were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers or newspa­pers without government, I should not hesi­tate a moment to prefer the latter." Jefferson was one of this nation's greatest proponents of free speech, and its brother. free press. He thoroughly understood the valuable role newspapers play in maintaining a free nation's vitality. Besides the important role of reporting news and disseminating information to the public, newspapers also serve as (prums for public debate through their opinion pages and columnists. The newspaper thus has an inherent responsibili­ty to promote civil debate and discussion. Though it is justly protected by the first amendment to do otherwise, it has the responsibility in serving the public to do so with integrity and decorum. 
Does this responsibility rest on the individ­ual writer or the paper itself? That is not an easily settled question. But one thing thai is without question is that those who write with civility make sure that what they present as facts really are so, and that opinion is demar­cated as such so that they don't lie to their readers. They also don't rely on juvenile name-ealling and smear-campaigns. They understand that they 'arc the better for silencing opposition through reason, fairness, and coolness. 
Admittedly, there is a fine line between bit­ing, poignant, civil commentary and eoarse. disrespectful banter. It ean sometimes be hard to distinguish, and in these cases we must set aside politics and examine the nature of the commentary to determine if its goal justifies its tone and character. thereby determining civility. 
Much of what passes for public discourse now is simply trash. Political talk shows on MSNBC and CNN, and radio shows such as those of Hush Limbaugh have replaced civili­ty with contests to see who can shout louder than his opponent. The most flawed and asi­
nine logic and reasoning is allowed to go over the airwaves and be printed in newspapers that once had respect for their intelligent and eivil commentary. Political campaigns 
are not run on issues of sub­stance, but 
rather on find­ing dirt on the other guy and 
destroying his name. The entire Clinton/Starr saga demon­strates this point in a most unfor­tunate way. 

The nation's media have discussed the most lurid 
details of the President's pri­vate life with sup­
posedly great eon­cern for truth. morality, and constitu­tionality. The truth is, it's much easier to talk and write about sex and to spread 
trivial gossip than it is to take the time to think about important issues and for­mulate intelligent, reasonable opinions. 
The results of all this can be seen in the public's distrust of the media; In the public's low turnout rates at voting time; In the real­ization that as we waste time debating incon­sequential events, the problems that need solutions are progressively deteriorating. And when we do discuss important issues, a rare thing indeed, it is on such a shallow, meaningless level that we might as well not even bother. This all spells troublfl for the democratic republic that is the United States of America. 
In trying to move publie discourse into the realm of civility, it would do us all well to read the speeches of Martin Luther King, Jr., of John F. Kennedy, and of Thomas Jefferson, to name just a few masters of the form. The manner of discourse utilized by these men is the cpitomn of civility. Though we may not be nearly as eloquent as they were, we can certainly learn valuable lessons from them, in what they said as well as how it was said. 
Thanks to Professor Manier for his guid­ance. 
Paul Ranogajec is a freshman living in Morrissey. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the PSA or The Observer. 
.. 

~----­

VIEWPOINT 
Ti.tesday, October 13, 1998 os~ERVER -----------------------------------------------------page9 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Student Senate Justified in Misinforms 
Llull's Column 
Passing Bradley Welcoming Regarding Non­
Letter 
I am writing in response to the Oct. 6 letter never intnnded. All in all, it was a misundnr­by Notre Damn/St. Mary's Hight to Life criti­standing on both of our parts. I can assure

discimination 
cizing the Student Senate for ignoring them you and all other groups on this campus that 
during our discussion of a welcome letter to we had a serious discussion as to why this 
Senator Bradley at our meeting last week. occurred and have taken stops to assure that 
These are serious charges being brought it docs not happen again. 
... L


Clause 

against the body Before I close, I charged with rep­
must stross that tlwI fully blllievc that everyone has the right to their own opinion. 
resenting the letter to Sen.Ilowever. when an opinion beeomes a souree of misinformation, 
undergraduate Bradley was writ­thon thm·e's a problom. Thm·e is onn pmt in Eduardo Llull's arti­
students at Notre tnn with the best cle "The PSA, the Student Senate and the Blind Pursuit of 
Damc, and I feel interest of the IUghts" that I lind falls into the latter category and hope that 1 
thn nend to clarify Studnnt Body in may bn able to set somn things straight. 
what happened. mind. In my pre­Towards the end of his article, Llull mentions recent eventc; in 
First, this orga­sentation of this the Student Senate and my role within them. lie is eorrect is 
nization's com­letter to thn Senate. saying that I co-wrote the non-discrimination clause resolution 
mnnts were more I stressnd that it 
that was just passed last wnek. Hownver, he fails to mention than welcome at was not gcarndthat the other author is the one he holds in such high esteem­our meeting. The against ND/SMCSpnncer Stefko. Moreover, the clause I presented to the senate problem was, Hight to Lifn, who, I was almost identical to a clause thn senat!l had passed just a however, that the believn worn takingyear and a half ago. The only changes made consisted of fine­members of the positive steps to tuning grammar usage and a redirection of the focus of the res­Academic Affairs raise awarnness 
olution (to ttw aeademk eoundl instead or the oiTIC!Jrs or the Committee (who about the Senator's 
univnrsity). That's it. 
sponsored the let­voting record on Furthermore. he mis-quotes me during the debate on this ter to Bradley abortion. This let­
topie (as did Tim Logan in his article a week ago) as saying, "it were very con­ter came in 
seoms like common senso." What I actually said was that "to me cerned about the response to the it sPems like common sense." I am fully aware that what seems debate degenerat­Alumni group who like common sense to me does not to most people; hence, the ing into one about insisted on embar­
quali lieation. 
abortion which, rassing themselves I try very hard to be open-minded and fair to all people. I do we feared, would and Notre Damn bynot feel us though Llull was fair to my office as Lewis hall sena­become heated 11ying those "Dumptor in his artide. I do not propagate my own agenda in senate ... 
and, in the end, Bill Bradley" ban­I ask my dorm what they think of certain issues and vote not have accom­ners around the 
accordingly. I am not the PSA's senator, but Lewis Hall's. I think plished much. For stadium at our tirst 
that that's an imperative distinction to make. 
that reason, we two home games.
llowcvnr, I cannot help but be delighted that Llull thinks that sought to limit the Haising awareness tim PSA is influential enough to persuade Senate (one of the scope of the and allowing peo­most powerful forums for the student's voice on campus) into debate to just the ple to makevoting li1r Bradley's lettm· and the non-discrimination clause. 
letter and its mer­
informed opinions
Have we really come this far in less than seven months? or is its. That said, is more than legiti­
Llull simply trying to both ignore and trivialize the inevitable'? 
there was a prop­mate; showing
Students on this campus are becoming morn aware and active nr place on the nothing but hostili­... whether that has anything to do with the PSA or not, I don't agenda for ty and an unwill­
know, but heck-we'll take credit for it. 
ND/SMC Hight to 
ingness to ~car Life to speak. We 
someone's opinion
Sophie Fonin reserve a portion is childish and 

Srudent Senator, Lewis Hall 

of our time for moronic. By snnd­
October 8, 1998 

"podium" in ing this letter, the 
which members of Senate sought to 
the community distance itself from 
can speak to us on any topic and can field the blemish caused by this Alumni group and, 
• LEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Correction ofError in Article on Non-discrimination Clause 
In Thn Observer's rront-page coverage of last wonk's Academic Council meeting n~garding the non-discrimination clause issue. you indudml a box containing the "Hecnnt History of Sexual Orientation at ND." The box contains one error, namely, that the Farulty S1matn originally passed its rnsolution calling for the addition or snxual orinntation in the non-discrimination elause in May I1JIJH. Thn resolution was originally passed in May 1996. not 199H. Your error is understandable, however. In the first instance, tlw Snnatn submitted its rnsolution directly to the Oflicnrs of thn University. After lnngthy consideration, the Oflienrs votml against making any change. Therefore, in May 191JH the Faculty S1mate rnaffirmnd its May 1996 resolution and submitted it this limn to the Acadnrnie Council, whnrn the Senatn has thn right or agmHia. I was chair or the Faculty Senate when tho rosolution was first passed in May 1996. I supported the rns­olution tlwn and continue to support it today, as a nwmbnr or tho Academic Couneil. 
questions from the Senators. This would have provided the best opportunity for them to air their concerns in a positive and productive way. Before the meeting, I recommended to a member of this group to speak to our Chairperson to get on the agenda for podium. Unfortunately, this did not occur. 
U.owcver, this does not excuse the Senate from not listening to their arguments. Ignoring a group that represents the view of the majority of Notre Dame students was in effect, support the nfforts of our fnllow stu­dents who were trying to raise awareness and start a dialogue on a serious and pertinent issue. I hope this sets the record straight! 
Ryan D. Constantini Student Senator. Morrissey Manor Co-Chairman, Academic Affairs Commirree October 12, I998 
Mad as hell and net taking it anymere!» Talk te us. 


Observer. Viewpoint.]@ nd.edu 
Rev. Richard P. McBrien Crowlcy-O'llricn-Waltcr Professor of Theology October 12, 1998 

I 
l 
c 
s 
page10---------------------------OTHE ----------------Tuesday, October 13,1998
BSERVER 

Studying, exercising and dr 

Maximizing Academic Pelformance 
The University Counseling Center is pleased to intro­duce the first in a series of monthly columns which will offer you new perspectives on enhancing your academic life and your personal growth. 
When you were in grade school or high school, did any of your teachers spend any class time on improving your skill$ in maintaining concentration, memorjz­ing. or dealing with the anxiety \Vhich normally occurs with tests and papers? Most students have never had any training in improving how they learn. The emphasis in academic training istypically on how much content you have learned, not on improving your ability to learn and improving your academic performance. The assumption is that your ability to concentrate and create is set and cannot be improved. Successful athletes. however, never make this assump­tion. 
It is widely acknowledged that one's physical performance in a sport can be hampered or enhal1ced by one's mental performanceorattitude. That is, ifan athlete anticipates that he or she will not do well in. an event, that pessimistic attitude can ha?m performance even if he or she is·· in the best physical condition compared to the other athletes. Successful athletes, therefore, take the time. to prepare themselves mentally by having "dress rehearsals" and preparation ritu­als which get them ready to focus on doing their best in the sport. 
In academics, however, not many realize that one's mental attitude makes a difference in academic performance. Many students (and faculty) will not work on improving their productivity by working on the way that they think or work rather than focusing only on how mucl:;ttillle theyar.e puttin~into the work. 
For instance, many students engage in the fallacy of thinking that the quality of one's work on tests and papers is a function only of amQUnt of time and effort spent -the more time I put in, the better the grade, the more likely my work will be published, etc. But apply what we know from athletics. If a person said, "I am preparing for a long distance running event in the Olympics and I am doing this by running 18 hours a day," we would say somethinglike, "That's stupid! Your body will fall apart way beforeJhe Olympics becaU,$e )ou are not taking time to rest. eat )Vell, and do otherthings your bod~,,l:Villneed to last in a
marathon." · .;.;;;;., ...,,., · · · Yet such thinking is common in the academic world. ltls as if we believe the mind is not really connected to the bOdy, The mind is thvught to be in this 'ethe­real realm and it does not really matter what is done to the body in order to get the mind to think more. It is a belief that the brain is not flesh and therefore it can be cheated ofsleep and good food and still be expected to perform welL Over the last few years the Universlty Counseling Center has conducted work­sh..ops for graduate ..~:tnd undergradu~~~ stu.dents Oil fl1a?'iptizing~acadefl1iC perfol> mance by discussing techniques to inrprpve ·the way .stud!'illts do their academic work, many of which sport psychology uses to ·train elitf:l athletes. Here ·are a number of techniques which have be~rt some of the favorites of past workshop participants: Conditioning yourself to your workspace: Create a space or choose a place where you only do academic work. In. this way, you create a dynamic in which the place is associated with work and so your productivityincreases. If you n~:~ed toworry or procrastinate by socializing,. surfmg the neh ~r.writing letters, .then leave that place so that itdoes not beyom~ associate(! witlfputtlng off work, .· ...•. Be Process-Oriented, Not Outcome•Otiented:. The. bases are loaded, it's the ·last inning of the game, and you are up to bat. If you start thinking about how much the outcome of the game depends onyou. you will miss the baiL As they say, keep your eye on the ball; that is all you have control over. The same is true with papers and exams. Obsessing about what might happen to your GPA takes away from your focus on showing what you kn()w in every question. Dealing with Academic Setbacks: W'}len you make a lllistake in answeritig a question in class or do poorly on an. ex_IJ,lll, there· is the temptation to tellfrte:nds how badly you did or to ruminate on the error. If you do this, you end up uncon• sciously rehearsing the error over and over. Instead, tc:lhearse success. For example, ask yourself what was the problem or what skills do you need to devel­op to do better the next time. Instead of recounting the failure, say how you will 
do it successfully the next time. If you watch elite athletes when they are inter· viewed after making. a mistake, they will usually avoid rehearsing what they did wrong and will focus on how one does. it better. .· •··•····.. ... . .. 
Dealing with Anxiety Contagion: Whi;!n you are surroynded by p~ople \.Vho are preparing for exams. or papers, such as during midterms or final exams, exces­sive anxiety can spread like wildfrre in the dorm or the department. What hap­pens is that students become anxious not because they need to be, but because everybody else is anxious. Ways to deal with this include: L) Acknowledge the anxiety contagion and make fun of it as a way to distance yourself; 2.) Give your­self ways to get perspective like studying some place else or going to the mall or Chicago for a little while; 3.) Clarify your priorities; do not let others contaminate you with their expectations or their •·.. than-productiv~ study strategi~s. .. ·.·. 
If learning more • about· these te.chni ... es is of interest t()you, look for the • next time this workshop is offered or call631-7336 to arrange for. the Counseling Center to do this workshop for your dorm or department. 
Find out more about the University Counseling Center at www.nd.edu/-ucc/ 
The intent of this series of articles is not to provide c()unseling but to provide in_formation about a variety ofmental health. topics ..To seek help With your indi· vzdual concerns. please contact the QnJversity Counseling Center at .63{·7336_ to schedule an appointment. .. / }fft 


Working off the t 
Notre Dame students take advantage of the various on-campus athle 

Left: Students take advantage of the opportunity to learn Karate in the Rock. Middle: Rolfs Athletic Facility and the Rock both provide stairmaster equipment. Right: A student takes advantage of the free weights available in the Rock. 
Creatine: to take or not to take? 
Unknown side effects create uncertainty about the benefits of taking creatine supplements 
By JANELLE WILLIAMS Scene Writer 

The race is over. The record was broken. Baseball fans everywhere cheered wildly as Mark McGwire of the St. Louis Cardinals smashed Roger Maris's 1969 home run record into oblivion. But this historic achievement was not without controversy. During a news conference in late August, McGwire admitted to the use of performance-enhancing drugs, namely, the dietary supplement, creatine. As a result. sales of this powdery, syn­thetic version of a substance produced by the liver and kidneys, have skyrocketed. 
Creatine was first used by British hurdlers and sprinters in the 1992 Olympics. Since then, thousands of professional, college and high school athlntns have bngun taking it to increase muscle mass and gain an edge in performancn. OfT the field, creatine may also prove helpful in countering the muscle waste typical of AIDS patients. the elderly and people with cancer. 
So what is creatine? 

Creatine is an amino acid made in the liver and kidneys and acquired from a diet of animal protein foods, such as meat and dairy product~. It allows the muscles to train intensely and become stronger and more developed. 
More specifically, creatine works in this way: 
In the muscles, cellular energy is housed in a molecule called adenosine triphosphate. The molecular bonds between phosphate and adenosine are loaded with energy and when a bond is broken, the result is adenosine diphosphate, which must be restored to a form the muscles can use as an energy source. Creatine, stored in the muscles as phos­phocreatine, facilitates this restoration. The more of the compound in the cell, the more energy it can release. Thus, saturating the muscle cells with creatine should enhance 
! 


Tuesday, October 13, 1998 -------------------OTHE page 11
BSERVER 


•



ns1on ••• naturally 
facilities to get in shape the right way. 


photos by The Observer/Dan Felgherty 
muscular ability. Heportmlly, it increases muscular energy levels by 8.33 percent. 
Unlike anabolic steroids, creatine does not cause hair loss or make the testides shrink. And hm:ausn ereatine is a substance producod by the body and found naturally in com­mon foods. it would lm impossihln to detect whetlwr an athlete got it from a slab of meat or from CNC. 
Not everyone can benefit from creatine usage. Studies have clearly shown that benefits are limitml to anaerohie aetivities that involve short bursts of energy, such as sprinting, jumping and weight training. Endurance athletes will reap no benefits from creatine. In fact, they may even be slowml down by supplemrmtation due to the resulting weight gain. 
Likewise, creatinn oll'nrs no particular reward to a sedentary person or someone who works out sporadically. It has proven only beneficial to those training intensely and regu­larly. 
So, what is the controversy? If tho benefits of creatine supplementation arc positive and it is a naturally occurring substance, what's the big deal? 
The prohlmn is uncertainty. Despite the one million dollars worth of testing last year, tlw long term effects of creatine are still not known and evidence of side effects remains inconsistent. Some side eiTects indude gastrointestinal distress, nausea and muscle eramping. Creatinn also increases the likelihood of dehydration and should therefor not lw taken wlwn ex1)rcising in extreme heat or when trying to make weight in wrestling. 
Perhaps most frightening is the lack of rnA regulation. Because creatineis sold as a supplenwnt and not a drug, it dons not have to meet standards for purity and content. 
"[Creatine[ is not consistent. You don't know what you're getting from batch to batch," according to Dr. Jeffrey Diaz. a member of Major League Baseball's health advisory grou., · For this reason, the Association of Professional Team Physicians, 100 of the top sports physidans in the country, recently released a survey indicating that 85 percent of its mmnh11rs would not rneommnnd the use of creatine until further research is completed. 
But, 1·rnatirw does havn its supportnrs. Despite the concern of some NFL league ol'li­:ials, high-profiln players such as the Denver Bronco's .John Elway, Shannon Sharpe and Bill Homanowski, promote creatirw products. Bomanowski has said that he is a big bdievnr in the supplmnent. 
In April, Bronco's trainer, Steve Antonopolis, said that he bnlieved creatine to have no harmful sid11 nffects. Opinions from across the professional sports world seem to be simi­lar. 
With such mnllicting nwssagns, where docs the truth lie? 
Tlw real f'aets on crnatino consumption can only be found in seinntific literature, not in n1ports or sp11etrlation and at the present moment, NO side effects have been reported in srinntilk or nwdic.al litnrature. Thernf'ore, most theories about adverse eff'eets contain no physiologil:al basis. 
According to resnarrh and dinieal studies, short tnrm supplementation is effective in enhancing high-intensity, repetitiv11-exereise performance. It promotes greater gains in stnmgth, f'at-frnn mass and sprint pnrformance. 
Tlw bottom linn is, yns, rnsoareh on the long term effects of' creatine supplementation S11PIIIS insuflkinnt. This uncertainty does cause some eoncorn. But, current studies indi­~atn no mmlkal risk its usage. 
In purchasing crnatirw, as with any supplement, select a reputable brand. Although 
>rices vary greatly, crnatine is relatively nxpnnsivo. So a "bargain" may not be a bargain 
tt all. Nnxt, hn sure that the container says "pure", in order to avoid injesting unknown 
111d possibly harmful ingrndients. And, finally, follow the directions for dosage on the 
·ontairwr earnfully. Over doing it will not only be wasteful, but could be harmful as well. 
Alcohol & Drug Help Columns 
Q. What is normal drinking, and what is "too much"? 
A. l'irst of all, let me say that "too much" varies by the person. Although there are standard del'initions of high-risk or binge drinking, any level of' drinking can be "too much" if you arc cxpnrieneing a growing sense of unnasn about your drinking habits. If you ever drink more than you intended to drink, that's a drinking problem. 
It may be time to take a second look if alcohol causes problems such as fighting, injury, unprotected or unplanned sex or nven forgetfulness about thn who, what, when, where or why of your life. 
Here's a guideline. Generally, bingn or high-risk drinking is dnlincd as four or more drinks on one or more occasion over a two week period for men and three or more for women. Factors of weight and the spncd with which tho alcohol is consumed are also important. A drink is dclinnd as a 12-ounce beer, 4 ounces of wine, a 12-ounce wine coolor or a 1-ounce shot of liquor (whether straight or in a mixed drink). 
Although college is a community where students of'ten drink far more than these standards, there's no magical law of nature that exempts eoll1~ge stu­dents from the effects of alcohol. On the other hand, there's no magical law of nature that says college students have to drink at all. 
'Til just drink while I'm here for four years and then I'll stop" is a common notion, but it is not necessarily that simple. College habits arn hard to lm1ak. There is also the factor of people who comn from an alcoholic haekground and for whom any drinking may be too much. 
So whether your alcohol consumption is "high-risk" or merely "at risk" (14 drinks per week for a man; 7 for a woman), collnge is a good time to takn an honest look at your habits and to get help if you feel out of control. 

Q. College is about partying. How do I fit in if drinking is not my thing? 
A. Many people know how to drink responsibly or not at all and are still thought of as "fun" people. It is not an all-or-nothing proposition. Those pno­ple who make it dear their personal decisions about alcohol an~n 't just toler­ated. They are respected. If you want to be part of the party without going home drunk, try these tricks: 
•Avoid 
drinking games where the sole point is to get drunk fast. Chances are you'll notice someone else who's not playing or who's sitting out a few rounds. Maybe you can hang out togethnr for a while. lin or shn may be the most interesting perosn there. 

•Slow 
down. Drink to enjoy the taste. Maybe you can beeonw the res­ident connoisseur, refusing to drink anything but the "good stuff." Try alter­nating alcohol with non-alcoholic beverages. Nurse a soda all night to keep something in your hand; you'll be less likely to reach for a beer. PeopiP arP too busy with their own drinking to notice what or how much you drink. 

•Eat 
before you go and also at the party. Alcohol gets ahsorlwd mnrP q-uickly if you've got food in your stomach -a good excuse to eat somP high­fat calories! 

•It's 
best to go to a party with a plan -for example, 'Til have two drinks and then switch to soda," or 'Til have a 'buddy system' with a f'riPml to hold each other accountable to stay in control." 


College ean include lots of drinking, some drinking or no drinking at all . .Just make sure you are doing what you want to do and not what you think rollt>gl' students are supposed to do. Real friends will respect you for who you an• not for how often you get loaded. 
You can always ask for help in figuring out what's right for you. given your family history, values, tcmpcrment and goals. It's as easy as a phone call. 
These columns are provided by the Lowe Family Foundation and the University of Notre Dame Office of Alcohol and Drug Education. Contact LFF at kapetel1 @ibm. net for comments, questions or more information. 
·-... 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 12, 1998 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAll 

Weasels wins battle of unbeaten Pasquerillas 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
The West was best on Sunday as the undefeated Purple Weasels of Pasquerilla West downed their arch rivals. the pn•viously undefeated Pyros of PaqtH'rilla East. 13-12. 
Mary Laflin got the Weasels on the board first. taking a reverse from quarterback Liz McKillop and srampNing into the end zonP to giw PW a 7-0 lead. 
The Pyros came right back though on their next possession, closing the gap to 7-6. 
Defenses dominated the rest of the first half as the excellent PW defensive line of Mary Hepburn and Lisa Rodriguez kept pres­sure on Pyro quarterback Elizabeth Plummer. 
Early in the second half. the Pyros made an interesting deei­sion not to punt facing a fourth down deep in their own territo­ry. The fourth down play failed and the ball was turned over to the Weasels. 
Liz McKillop wasted no time in finding Mark Laflin for a 30-yard touchdown pass on first down. extending the PW lead, 13-6. 
The Pyro offense again answered the Weasel score with a drive of their own. Plummer completed all three of her passes and rushed for 12 yards to lead the Pyros down the field, before hitting Melissa Gorman for a 7­yard touchdown pass. 
With less than three minutes to play, the Pyros elected to go for two and the victory instead set­tling for a tie. 
Plummer. facing a strong rush from Hepburn and Rodriguez was forced to throw the ball before she was set. 
The pass fell incomplete and the Pyros still trailed 13-12. 
PW got the ball on its own 15­yard line. Needing only one first down to run the clock out. Liz McKillop attempted the option right. The right side of the Pyro defense collapsed around McKillop stopping her for no gain. On the next play, the Weasels tried to pass for the first down but the ball was slightly over thrown and fell incomplete. interhall football as West Quad 
McKillop again dropped back rivals McGlinn and Welsh Family to pass on third down. Seeing an Hall squared off in interhall open receiver down the sideline, action. she launched a pass. However. Despite missing their entire that receiver only appeared coaching staff and their captain, open. PE cornerback Alison the McGlinn team did not play Healy quickly stepped in front of dilapidated. The aggressive the intended receiver and inter-energy and enthusiasm of the cepted the pass. Returning the McGlinn squad kept them in the ball to the PW eight yard line game. with under a minute and a half Welsh Hall struck first on a 59­to remain, the stage was set for a yard bomb from quarterback dramatic last few plays. Stephanie Eden, who completed 
On first down, Lisa Rodriguez seven of her 17 passes for 123 came up with yet another big yards and a touchdown, to wide defensive play for PW, stuffing receiver Sara Lett, who finished the PE running back for no gain. the day with four catches for 98 
On second down the running yards and a touchdown. attack was again stuffed by the The two-point conversion PW defense. attempt failed but Welsh still 
On third down, Plummer'·'" lead 6-0. attempted to keep the ball her-McGlinn utilized a two-headed self and score but he was chased quarterback system on offense. out of bounds at the seven yard Leah Ashe was used primarily line. for running plays and short pass-
Finally on fourth down, from es while Nic'ole Benjamin's bet­the seven yard line with under a ter arm was used in long passing minute to play, the Pyros lined situations. up for their last chance to pre-Benjamin led McGlinn on a serve their undefeated record seoring drive following the Welsh and claim the number one seed touchdown. in the playoffs. Hitting Mary Lenzin for 34 
Plummer took the snap from yards, Benjamin finished off the center and rolled right. Under drive by connecting with Jamie heavy pressure from Hepburn, Glasser for one of her four catch­she fired a bullet toward the es on the day for a five-yard back corner of the end zone. But touchdown pass. the pass never reached its final The PAT failed and the score destination. An excellent defen-was tied at halftime, 6-6. sive play by Michelle Williams McGlinn opened the second knoeked the ball to the ground, half with an another long drive, sealing the Weasel victory, 13-but as the Welsh defense was 
12. back into the shadow of its own 
"Six-and-0 don't mean jack goal post, it grew stronger. without the patch," PW head Welsh cornerback Maria coach Martin Marxuach said. Feilmeyer broke up three passes "We want to go to that stadium. before the Welsh defensive broke This was a nice win but we can't through the McGlinn offensive lose site of our goal N the cham-line and sacked Benjamin, turn­pionship." ing the ball over on downs. 
"We just need to put this game The Welsh offense, taking its behind us." Healy said. "We have cue from the inspiring defensive to focus on our next game and effort, put together a long drive get ready for the playoffs." of its own. Eden connected on four of her nine passes to lead Welsh 12 McGlinn 7 the Welsh offense down the field. Welsh regained a 12-6 lead 
The West Quad Alliance that when Eden hit Katie Rak in the formed on Saturday night for the back of the end zone. West Quad Formal soon crum­McGlinn had once last chance bled under the powerful forces of to score but Feilmeyer again shut down the Shamrock attaek. Registering two tackles and breaking up two more passes, she finally sealed the Welsh vic­tory when she picked off Benjamin's pass on the last play of the game. 

Despite the loss. the Shamrocks remained enthusias­tic about the game. 
"We played a pretty good game," Interim coach, captain, and defensive mastermind Patty Sullivan said. "We just ran out of time. I think we had a good sea­son. Everyone had a lot of fun." 
For the women of the Welsh, the victory over their West Quad rivals made up for an otherwise difficult season. 
"We were circling the McGlinn game all season," Lett said. "We said that if we only won one came all season, we wanted it to be against McGlinn." 
Farley 12 Off-Campus 7 
The Off-campus crime machine were no match for Farley Hall as Farley's Finest defeated OfT-campus, 12-7. 
Off-campus' offense never seemed to get in gear as both the running game and the passing game was shut down by the sti­fling Farley defense. 
Crime running back Lisa Thode was held to just 24 yards on seven carries and Crime quarter­back Brita I lyllengren threw two interceptions, one of which was returned for a touchdown. 
Farley opened the scoring with a impressive 40-yard drive to take an early 6-0 lead. 
They later added to their lead by returning an interception for a touchdown and a commanding 12-0 lead. 
However, the Crime did not give up and fought back for a late touchdown. 
Hyllengren hit Anne Faust twice for 20 yards as OfT-campus cut the Farley lead to five, 12-7. 
But time would run out on the Crime and Farley would emerge victorious. 
"This was a disappointing loss," Crime coach Chris Mignanelli said. "I just don't think we were physieally ready to play today." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right ro edit all classifieds for content wirhour issuing refunds. 
Lost-Brown, leather, Wilson  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  Need 2 Baylor GAs ASAP  Interested in Sweatshop/Labor  
NOTICES  football w/ Alabama High School insignia on the side-last seen friday 8/9 on or near  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153.  FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412  Top Dollar  Issues? Help make ND a sweat-shop-free campus.Call Julie x4003 ..................,...............  
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  McGlinn fields-has special sentimental value-if found  THE PRIMROSE PATH BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED  WANTED  631 -6750  ..................................  
We're Open A Lotl!l  please call Chris at 4-1817  15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  1 ARMY GA for sale, best offer.  Annie in Austria!!!!!!!!  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC  271-1526  Call Aimee 1825.  We miss you! Have fun!!!! **********······················  
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight  WANTED  INN, FULL ELEGANT BREAK­FASTS.4 GUEST  NO Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL  1 Baylor GA for sale leave offer 4x1 067  BL, TH, KB-Here's your classified.  
When you need copies,  ROOMS,AIC,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS  674-7645  Leave me alone.-FP  
we're open!  FREE SPRING BREAK '99  REQUIRED.$99.00 Call 616-695­ 
With COLLEGE TOURS  6321  ND Footbaii·Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  Need 3 Aerosmith Tix  JAMES! I saw you wearing a skirt!  
Organize 20 travelers,earn 2 FREE  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  Call Pete @ 4-0973  
Early Spring Break  trips.Call FREE (800)395-4896  BED & BREAKFAST: Home away  674-7645  being in the irish guard is no  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  from home! 2 miles from campus.  For Sale: 1 GA Army. Call Jim  excuse.  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  STUDEBAGELS hopes that you  Queen beds, 1 room w/ twins.  ND Football Tickets Needed.  @4-1169.  
Awesome  have a great fall break. We are  Private baths. 272-9471.  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  ALLEN! I'm sorry I went off about  
Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  looking for someone to work at our  2 GAs to Army & Baylor  the hunting habits of kingfishers.  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties  Campus Shoppes location. Will work with your schedule.  FOR SALE  ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  For Sale: 243-2770  please sit by me!  
$339!Panama City Room With  1801 South Bend Ave-Please  AM232-2378  I have one GA for the Army game.  I DID dance with you at the formal.:)  
Kitchen, 7 Free Parties  apply in person.  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  PM 288-2726  I need to get rid of it by Fall Break.  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  198 MIN. $20  Best offer takes it.  KEVIN!  
$149!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386  FOR RENT  CALL 258-4805  Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289-8048  Call Chad at 271-9341.  I didn't leave you out this time.  
Welcome Freshman  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  93FORD TAURUS Wagon, Power AC 133K V.Ciean $4290. Call  PERSONAL  or ben, mark, noonan and arney.  
Michael Edwards!  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  2773254.  ND MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S­ see, i wrote you classifieds. i'm  
GILLIS PROPERTIES.  PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568  FAX IT FAST! !I  nice. even if i don't rate as the  
$6.00 Haircuts  272-6551  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  x2242  Sending & Receiving  keough 3B girl.  
Vito's Barbershop  Bed box set. not available in  at  
1523 Lincolnway West  That Pretty Place, Bed and  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  FOR SALE:4 ARMY TIX-CALL  THE COPY SHOP  diane-break a leg tomorrow! I know  
-­ Closed Wed. & Sun. Breakfast Inn has space available 233-4767 for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms ILOST & FOUND I with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.  TICKETS I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  ((((((((( (516)269-3426 ASAP-BEST OFFER Need 2 Baylor GAs.  LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!!! ODYSSEY OF THE MIND  you'll do a good job. :) mark-thanks for the flowers. love, mac  
Toll Road,Exit #107, 1·800-418­ GAMES.272-6306  Please call212-636-7472.  Interested? Call Aubree  kduga, i switched from the marlboro  
Lost last Spring:  9487.  @ 4-3873 before fall break  man to the red man... love, crazy  
Pentex Super Program 35mm  TICKETMART Inc  THE OBSERVER will not be pub- 
Camera wl Vivatar flash, gray case.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  BUY -SELL-TRADE  lished during fall break so if you  TURNER'S HOLIDAY BAZAAR  crazy, what are we going to do  
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  Notre Dame Football Tickets  have Army tix to sell, put your clas­ about corliss?  
Call Susan 255-2369  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  258-1111  sified ad in before Friday, Oct. 16.  SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24  
No student tickets please  8:30-2:30  Uncle Sam is after you!  


goal of the meet was to improve District Championships." 
our status on a bid to the NCAA "We know there is room for Championships. We didn't get improvement," Maxwell said. continued from page 20 the job donn." "We have seen the course and 
Onn of the positives the tnam know what to do next time." 
Irish 
pllu~nd SIJth, IJOth and I 12th 
can take from the meet is that The ultimate measure of the 
respnetively. 
it is now familiar with the season will be whether Notre 
I lead coach .lor. l'iane indicat­
National Championship course Dame can make its big run 
ed that thr. hid to the NCAA 
at the Him Hock Farm. when it is needed. The team 
Championships was one of the 
"The course is difficult, but from last weekend will got this 
top prioritit~s of Uw weekend. 
that is not an excuse," Piann weekend off while the men's B 
"We mildly helped oursnlvns," 
said. "We should have been team and the women's A team 
said l'iane. "Tlwrn were a fnw 
ready to run and, for whatever compete in the Central 
ttHtms that should get automat­
reason, wn wern not. This puts Collegiate Championships at 
ic bids that wn did beat, but 
more pressure on a good per­Kalamazoo, Michigan. 
thert~ are some above us that 
formance at tho Big East and 

we also llllnded to dnfeal. The 
Help Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County help people 
page 13 

• NATIONAL lEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Tucker's homer gives 
Atlanta comeback win 
Associated Press 

Thursday night, Maddux is scheduled to start. SAN DIEGO Brown didn't look nearly as Michael Tucker and the sharp as he did when he won 
Atlanta Braves did what they 3-0 on a three-hitter Thursdayhad to do to stay alive in the night in Atlanta. lin walked NL championship series, stag­llyan Klesko leading off the 
ing a stunning comeback eighth and .Javy Lopez reached against no less than Kevin on an infield single. With ont)Brown. out, Tuekm· lined a 3-2 pitch 
With the Padres just five outs over the right-field fence to away from reaching the World give Atlanta a 5-4 lead. Series for the first time in 14 With the crowd of 58,1)88 sit­years, manager Bruce Bochy's ting stunned, Tucker, who lin­strategy to bring on Braves­ishnd with live HB!s, pumpml killer Brown blew up when his fist as he rounded first and 
Tucker hit a go-ahead, three-looked at the spot where tlw .. run homer that sent Atlanta to 
ball landed, as if amazed hn a 7-6 win Monday night in really did it against Brown. Game 5. The Braves added two more 
Bochy's move looked good in 
runs ofT reliever Donne Wall. the seventh, when Brown came keyed by Tony Graffanino's on with a 4-2 lead, a runner on double. and no outs and retired the Tucker was booed when lw side, but now it will bn heavily came to bat in tho ninth. questioned. Thn l'adrns wnre ninn outs Tucker's horner highlighted a from clinching tho pennant five-run rally in the eighth that Sunday night when Atlanta ral­made it 7-4. Tucknr drove in lied for six runs, eapped by Atlanta's lirst five runs. Andres Galarraga's grand slam Pinch-hitter Greg Myers hit a in the sevnnth, to win S-3. 
two-run homer in the ninth off Ken Caminiti and .John Braves reliever Kerry Vander Waf hit dutch two-out, Ligtenberg, and then Atlanta two-run hornnrs off .John 
manager Bobby Cox made his Smoltz, whose 11 postseason own unusual move -bringing wins are the most nvnr. in four-time Cy Young winner Caminiti's homer came in the Greg Maddux from the bullpen. first inning for a 2-0 lead and Maddux, who had not 
Vander Wal's in thn sixth for a relieved since 1987, closed for 4-2 lead. the lirst save of his pro career. 
Smoltz came in :~-0 with two Maddux struck out pinch-hit­no-decisions in live postseason .... 
ter Greg Vaughn, playing for starts when Atlanta faced elim­the first time since straining ination this decade. lie beat his left quadriceps in Game 1, Chicago in the division series and retired Quilvio Veras on a for his 11th postseason victory,
grounder. After Steve Finley the most ever. drew a rare walk from Vandnr Wal, acquirnd late in Maddux, the Atlanta ace got the season mainly because he 
Tony Gwynn on a game-ending hits Braves pitchers so well, grounder. broke a 2-all tie when he 
The Braves still may have to homered to left on an 0-2 pitch beat Brown, who pitched a with two outs in the sixth. shutout in Game 2, one more Vander Wal, hitting .43S life­
time. He had been scheduled to time against Smoltz, made his pitch Game 6 Wednesday second start in place of against Tom Glavine, but the Vaughn, San Diego's 50-homer Padres might change their man. rotation after Brown threw 41 Tucker singled in the Braves' pitches. 
first two runs, in the fourth Either way, Atlanta already and sixth innings, both off has made history. No tmtm that starter Andy Ashby. trailed a seven-game series 3-0 
Ashby allowed four straight had ever come back to win two one-out singles in the fourth, games. 
including Tucker's to cut San If Game 7 is needed Diego's lead to 2-1. 
li.elltllltl I11Ntit11te l...11ti11 .A.111Cric1111 Fil111 llerieN 


Join the United Way/Notre Dame team and pledge your support today.
Pledge forms will be mailed this week. 


Big Brothers/Big Sisters of St. Joseph County ­providing role models for young people 

This film tells the story of Marla, a young woman who marries the enigmatic Roberto and moves Into the old mansion he Inherited. Roberto wa~s until after their wedding to confess that they are not living alone In their new home. Soon Maria realizes how little she knows about her husband. The climate ofsecrets and lies that comes to fill the house creates a tense, dramatic climax. Directed by Julio Perley and Ricardo Islas, It Is reminiscent of the 1961 film Mano en /a Tramps by Leopoldo Torre Nilsson, one of the masters of Latin American cinema. In Spanish with English subtitles. 
'\. 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 13, 1998 
DENVER sons as a major league manag­Hayes and bench . coach Jackie 
Colorado Hockies manager er, as has Sandt. Moore. Jim Leyland on Monday named ·May, a former major league Hurdle will return for his his 1999 coaching staff, bring­catcher, was a hitting instructor third season as the Rockies' hit· ing five colleagues with him under Leyland for 12 seasons. ting instructor. from the Florida Marlins. Kimm rejoined Leyland's staff La.•;;t season, he al<>o served as 
Leyland, who agreed to a in 1997. flrst base coach. 
record three-year, $6 million He was a coach for the ·The Rockies set a National deal with the Rockies earlier Pittsburgh Pirates in 1990, League record with 239 home this month. will keep Colorado when Leylana guided the team runs in 1997. In 1998, the team hitting coach Clint Hurdle. to the first of three straight divi­broke its franchise record by 
Bullpen coach Lorenzo sion championships. batting .291, the highest aver· Bundy, third base coach Rich Bundy was named manager age by an NL team since the Donnelly, bench coach Bruce of Brevard of the Florida State 1939 St. Louis Cardinals. Kimm. pitching coach Milt May League in 1996 and became Leyland, a former NL mMag­and first base coach Tommy outfield and base running coach er of the year, replaced Don Sandt will join Hurdle on the for the Marlins the following Baylor, the only manager the staff. year. Rockies had in their first six 
Donnelly, who managed the The five former Marlins years of existence. Baylor was American Association's Denver coaches replace pitching coach fired after a 77-85 season. 


Please Recycle the Observer 
The Observer/Brei Hogan 

Siegfried's two-point conversion was the difference in its 8-7 victory. 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 

• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 


Leyland~naiJleS staif 
Assodatcd Press Bears in 1982, has worked with Frank Funk, third base coach Leyland during all 13 of his sea­Gene Giynn, bullpen coach Bill 

Your Way Value Meal with crispy fries. 
OR 

Your Way Value Meal with tasty onion rings. 
It's a tough choice. But you can handle it. 
There's a tasty new way to "Have It Your Way®"at Burger King® But which to choose? Our hot, crispy fries with your value Meal? Or our tasty onion rings with your Value Meal? They both cost the same price and they're both unbelievably delicious. So maybe you should go for two value Meals. Thenyou could get one ofeach. 
The Huddle-LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 

KING 
® 

It just tastes better."' 
©1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Burger King, 
Have It Your Way, It just tastes better and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
• INTERHALL fOOTBALL 


Siegfried comes from behind to defeat Zahm 
Sports Writer 
It was a perfect day for football on Sunday at Stepan field. 
The beautiful weather beckoned was only sur­passed by the quality of play exhibited on the field. 
In one of the more exciting games of the intflr­hall season, the Ramblers of Siegfried Ilall defeated the Zahmbies of Zahm by a final score of 8-7. 
Zahm got on the board first as their quarter­back completed a 50-yard pass to the tight end. After this, they were able to kick the extra point to take a 7-0 lead. 
The Siegfried offense was able to drive deep downfield once in the first half, but failed to score. 
In the second half, Siegfried used the running skills of freshman Travis Smith and sophomore fullback Kevin Haley to drive down to the Zahm 10-yard line. 
Freshman quarterback Hob Plumby then com­pleted a pass to senior tailback Mike Haarlander in the corner of the end zone. 
Head Coach Jamie Bordus called for the tflam 
to attempt the two-point conversion, going for 
the win. 
A pass attempt was incomplete, but the play was called back on a face mask by Zahm. 
Siegfried took over at the one-yard line and handed the ball to Smith, who made it into the end zone to give the Ramblers the lead. 
Zahm took the kickoff and proceeded to drive deep into Siegfried territory before Kevin Hanley sacked the Zahm quarterback, forcing ·him to fumble. 
Although Zahm recovered the ball, this play effectively ended the drive for the Zambies. Siegfried got the ball back and let the clock run down for the victory. "Kevin Hanley had a very good game on defense," Bordus said. 
Knott 6, Fisher 6 
Another exciting game occurred Sunday after­noon as the .Juggs of Knott took on the Green Wave of Fisher in a battle of Mod-quad versus South quad. 
The .Juggs were able to get on the board first as receiver Joey Gonzalez caught a 20-yard pass for a touchdown. The extra point attempt was not successful and the Juggs carried the 6-0 lead into halftime. 
The game continued to be a defensive battle through the third and most of the fourth quarter as both teams failed to score. 
Late in the quarter, Fisher took over at the 50-yard line and was able to drive the ball down the field. 
Quarterback Mike Schultz was able to com­plete a pass to wide receiver Steve Doherty in the end zone. The extra-point attempt by Chris Backus was blocked and the game ended at a 6­6 tie. 
This was somewhat of a victory for the Green Wave, who had previously failed to get the ball into the end zone, losing their first two games by scores of 6-0 and 3-0. 
"The defense played pretty well," said Backus. "Senior captain Greg Regan played a great game at linebacker, as did freshman linebacker Dean Korolis. We really did need the win, but it was nice to score finally." 
Tuesday, October 13, 1998 page 15
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



+Campus Ministry This Week+ 







OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hcsburgh Library: 
631-7800 
112 Badin Hall: 
631-5242 
Basilica Offices: 
631-8463 
Web Page: http://www.nd.edu/-min­istry 
Tuesday, October 13, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study Thursday, October 15, South Dining Hall Hunger Display for World Food Day 
'· 

Sponsored by World Hunger Coalition 

Freshman Retreat #19 (November 13-14) Sign-Up 
Starts October 26 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your Rector Target Dorms: Farley, Fisher, Howard, Keenan, Keough, O'Neill, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward's and Walsh 
Don't wait until the deadline-November 9! 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11 :JU pm until ·ruesday, lU:UU pm St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 


Notre Dame Celebration Choir Rehearsals 
Wednesdays, 8:00-9:30 pm, Earth/Science, Rm. 102 The newest choir on campus, offers a spiritual, diverse musical alternative to 
those who would like to participate in the music ministry at Notre Dame, draw­ing from a rich variety of contemporary, folk, gospel, Taize prayer and tradi­tional sacred music. For details, contact Karen Schneider-Kirner, 631-9326. 
... 

Emmaus 

Looking for an exciting place to explore and share your faith with others? Look no further. Emmaus is here. For more information on joining a small faith sharing community in our Emmaus program contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016. 


r ~Merrill Lyncb 
IT'S 9:42 A.M., AND YOU'VE ALREADY BEEN TO BOSTON, BEIJING AND BERLIN. 

program, you really get to know the world of finance from 
You're an Analyst at Merrill Lynch, one of the world's truly global financial services companies. From the very beginning of your career, you gain exposure to every facet of global finance. You have the 
opportunity to work with senior managers and professionals at all levels. And through our global training 
a different perspective. 
Experience the environment at Merrill Lynch. It's like no other. Friendly. Personable. Cooperative. For such a large organization, we offer an atmosphere of camaraderie and teamwork that's truly unique. 
If you're an undergrad or have a bachelor's degree, we invite you to discover all the exceptional opportunities we have for Analysts. You'll exchange ideas with the best and the brightest. And talk about a future that promises to be as exciting as our past. , 
Merrill Lynch is an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
-


Visit us on the web: 
www.ml.com 

----------~--------------------­ --~-~--­ 
Tuesday, October 13, 1998  The Observer· SPORTS  page 17  l I !  


Stanford 
continued from page 20 
Bartlett said the ofl'ense was pnnalized a lot, which "put an end to a couple or drives". 
ll11 stressod the team's need to work on timing on the offen· sive side of the ball if it hopes 
Last Chance to Get 






Van Training 
Dates: 

postseason were already dis­pelled. 
The two teams continued on their previous trends. with Sorin winning 14-0, improving its record to 4-0 and dropping O'Neill to 0-4. 
Sarin set the tone for the entire game when it "marched down the field" and scored on its first drive, according to O'Neill captain junior .Jim Rosenbach. 
This execution was charac­teristic of the "really fine-tuned offense" that Rosenbach said he and his teammates encoun­tered all game long. 
In the losing O'Neill effort, freshman cornerback Matt Schaeffer led the defense by grabbing an interception. 
Freshman quarterback Kevin .Jones and senior wideout David Butz led the offense with their air attaek. 
Although Rosenbaeh said his team was "pretty riddled by injuries, mistakes and turnovers" the entire season, he added that eaeh man played hard and proud up through the last snap of the season. 
While Sorin senior captain Greg Belden was unavailablo for eomment, 
Hosenbaeh was nothing but eomplimontary when speaking of his team's opponent, saying its offense was the host his team had seen all yoar. 
Sorin, like Morrissey and tlw rest of the league, awaits Wednesday night's results to lind out its rnatehup in round ono . 
to be successful in the postsea­son. 
Morrissey finds out its first­round opponent after all games have been completed on Wednesday. 
Sorin 14, O'Neill () 
While the Morrissey game was characterized by teams 

with identical playoff records and postseason hopes, the game between Sorin and O'Neill pitted two teams on opposite ends of the football spectrum against each other. 
Sarin came into Sunday's action sporting a 3-0 record with a playoff position secure. 
O'Neill brought an 0-3 record to the field and dreams of the 
Tuesday, October 13 6:00-B:OOpm 
Wednesday, October 14 4:00-6:00pm 

The October 15 6:00-B:OOpm session has been cancelled. 
Those who need the refresher test must take Van Training before Fall Break in order to drive for th rest of the semester. 
Call Patty @ 1-5293 with any questions. 

• NATIONAL fOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Leaf fighting to keep starting job 
Assodated Press 

SAN DIEGO 
For the first time this season, the starting status of San Diego Chargers quarterback Ryan Leaf remained in question as coach Kevin Gilbride on Monday put off a decisio on the prized rookie. 
Gilbride said a choice between Leaf, the No. 2 pick in this year's draft, and reserve quarterback Craig Whelihan will be made by Wednesday. The Chargers play the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday in San Diego. 
Leaf had three interceptions last Sunday before he was pulled in the third quarter in favor of Whelihan. San Diego lost 7-6 to the Oakland Raiders, who scored with 1:28 left to hand the Chargers (2-4) their fourth straight loss. 
Leaf has thrown 12 intercep­tions and lost three fumbles this season. 
"We certainly have to get bet­ter play from the quarterback position," Gilbride said Monday. "It's a problem now figuring how to do that. We're just trying to see who gives us the best chance to win." 
Leaf was 7-of-18 for 78 yards against the Raiders while the Chargers settled for two fleld goals. There have been only live San Diego touchdowns this season, two on passes by Leaf and Whelihan. 
"I thought we'd be more effective throwing the ball, I really did,'' Gilbride said. "There's no reason for us not to be. There were a couple of chances [Sunday] for big plays and that's all the game was looking for." 
Gilbride said part of the deci­sion of whom will start Sunday rests on whether Leaf will gain from learning the game in a backup role. 
But the rookie expressed lit­tle benefit from being sidelined. 
"You get enough mental rep­etitions as it is," Leaf said. "But you have to feel it coming at you, making the reads and learning to make the throws. You don't learn by watching someone else do it. But it's not my deeision to mako." 
Leaf, who was designated the starter to open the exhibition season, is 64-ol'-145 l44.1 pAr­cent) for 806 yards. 
"''m just going to prepare like I'm starter \llltil I hear oUl­erwisc," Leaf said. 'Then what­ever the coach's decision, that's the way we'll go." 
Whelihan lost all seven of his starts to end last season in place of Stan Humphries, who was sidelined with a eanler­ending concussion. This sea­son, Whelihan is 9-of-21 for 116 yar·ds. 
Gilbride dismissod any sug­gestion that his players have lost conlidenee in his coaching. Before last Sunday's game, an ESPN report said the status of the seeond-vear coach was in jnopardy. · 
"[ think they're all question­ing everything. I don't think there's anyone who looks at rnr. and says, 'He's not doing his job,"' Gilbride said. "llut when you're not going well, human nature looks at everything. 

KNOCKOUT WORKOUT 
ROUND 2 ~ A total body workout thaifuilds strength and endurance.
...............................' 
Boxing Footwork 
·­Punching Combinations Total Body Conditioning
: A Heavy Bag Work ~ Shadow Boxing
' ................................ 
Tues/Thurs 10/27-12/8 6:45-Bpm $25 Joyce Center Boxing Room 
REGISTRATION BEGINS WEDNESDAY. 101 14. 7:45AM@ RECSPORTS LOCATED IN THE RSRC. 

Today~ October 13~ 1998 For time and location of Ineeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan~ C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, October 13, 1998 
• SWIMMING 
Notre Dame captures relays, defeats Illinois-Chicago-
By WES RICHARDSON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men's and women's swimming tnams each defeated tt~ams from five other schools Friday to win its fifth-consecu­tive Notre Dame relays meet. 
Dominating their side of the meet. the women accumulated 228 points against their closest competitors Illinois-Chicago, who eanwd 178 points. 
The men saw a more heated competition. edging out Illinois­Chicago 192-182. Both Irish squads won all but one event. 
A whopping 12 meet records were broken at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The women set six of these in tlw 200-. 800-and 1000-yard freestyle, 400 medley, 400 bmaststrokc. and one-meter div­ing relays. The Irish men reset meet records in 800 freestyle, 400 butterfly, 400 backstroke, and 200 medley relays. 
Illinois-Chicago dominated the men's diving events, setting two meet records and qualifying Ryan Nelson for the 1998 NCAA Zone Diving meet. 
The Irish men did not compete in diving. 
"We feared that not entering a diving relay would make it impossible to win." head coach Tim Welsh said. "I was thrilled and excited with the way the men competed. All across the board we raced very well and better than expected." 
Experience gained during the Notre Dame relays will help the Irish be competitive in relays throughout the season, accord­ing to Welsh and women's senior co-captain Anne Iacobucci. 
"Our [meet] schedule puts a lot of demand on us to have good relays. For us to have a chance to advance in the Big East, our relays must improve," Welsh 

The Observer/John Daily 

Senior Chris Fugate helped the Irish swim to victory at last weekend's Notre Dame relays held at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
said. 
"The focus for the meet was more on the technical part of the race," Iacobucci said. "The com­petition wasn't as high, but you still focus on swimming as fast as you can." 
Many Irish swimmers had notable performances. Freshman Brook Davey's 50­yard leg of the 200 freestyle relay was faster than her indi­vidual time against Stanford a week prior. 
Senior Megan Eckstein did the same in her 100-yard portion of the 400 backstroke relay. On the men's side, sophomore James Scott-Browne improved his col­legiate best times in both the 100 and 200 freestyle during the 400 and 800 freestyle relays. respectively. 
"The meet showed that our relay starts and exchanges are where they need to be. We're progressing nicely," junior Sean Casey said. 

Many swimmers found themselves competing in events they do not normal­ly swim. 
This gave the Irish a chance to experiment with different strokes and stay fresh in their primary events. according to Welsh and Iacobucci. 
"We used [the meet] as a chance to compete when we're tired and have fun during a tough week of training," Iacobucci said. 
The women swim in Miami this Friday, and will remain in Florida for a week of training. 
The men's next meet will be October 23 against Air Force and Army. 
.Have a concession stand? 
Last chance for food service certification training is TOMORROW f10/14/98J 4:00P.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune. 
Please arrive PromPtlY. 
., 


Those who have not been trained will lose their concession stand! 
AnY questions. Please call RYan at 1-1309. 

Visit one of our newest locations today! 
Granger Express Office 
Granger Station Shopping Plaza 12980 State Road 23, Suite F Granger, IN 46530 (219) 239-9351 

Portage Road Office 
3457 Portage Road South Bend, IN 46628 (219) 277-8959 


r~ NOTRE DAME 
~-­ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION  
For People. Not For Profit.  
- (219) 239-6611  
Independent of ihe University  

HolyCrossCommunity Service Commitment For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate Program contact Moreau Seminary Fr. Jim King, c.s.c. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 


ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
Fr. Bill Wack. c.s.c. 


------------------------------:1 
~ 
1

Tuesday, October 13, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 1 
I 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST I 
~­


FOXTROT 
AAAA! kATIE! WI-IAT ARE You DOING?,
I •• 
DILBERT 
CA.I~E.RI THE. H.R. DIRECTOR 1.:::========::::-li ~ 

@) 
.., ~ • 
i 
E 
0 
u t:: 
:etil 

~~~~.~~~~~~~u 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Hobgoblin 61 Castle of the ballroom
1 Opposite of 32 Marvel comics guerra hero 62 Media whiz Roger
4 Oscar contender 34 Toothsome 9 Noted diarist 
63 Dos halved

36"lam--" 64 Trunk 
14 ·--pig'seye!" 3911 may have a 15 "Maria--" well 65 Actress Davis (1941 hit) 
66 Set, as an 16 Toiled in the exchange rate galley 42 Kind of nut 
41 Before, in Brest 
17 Nurse 43 Rustic DOWN
18 Composer Ned 45 Sexual desire 19 Tallow sources 
49 Centers of 1 Galileo and 20 "I was--" commerce others 
23 Turkey, e.g. 52 Off the mark 2 Kind of magnetism
24 Rubber tree 
54"l'llbe-" yields 3"Viva--!" 
57 Dallied (with) 
27 Bed support 4 Word on mail 28 "Hedda Gabler" 59 Ore carriers from Mexico dramatist 60 Relations 5 Cutting up 
6 Trillion: Prefix 
1 Lulu

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 8 Not get to the point 
9 Assume as fact 

33"--the 44 Poster material 53 Baseball's Tony 10 --Cologne ramparts ..." 46Amass La-­47 Using 55 Native New
11 Come before 34 Site for Hamilton Compuserve Yorker
12 To this point 35 Rearward 

48 Dictation taker 56 Locksmith Linus 13 Radical 60's org. 36 W-2 receiver 5o Auguries 57 Bit of retribution 37 City map abbr. 51 Fun for cowboys 58Riode-·­
21 Kind of nut 38 Late additions to
22 Was published 

a jury 25 C.P.R. expert Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
39Thatship 

are available by touch-tone phone: 

-=-+'-'+'-'+-'i 26 Le Carre figure 
40Pro--1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). -=+=+=+:::-i 29 Where to get 
43 Negative, in Annual subscriptions are available for the shots 
Chinese best of Sunday crosswords from the last 30 Weasel philosophy 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
~ 











""''1111 

A Benefit for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research 
~ 

Congratulations to the women of LYONS HALL for having 33°/o of their hall population participate in the Domer Run. A total of 374 people registered for the race, thus enabling us to raise $2,422 for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast Cancer Research. Thanks to all who made this possible! 
RecSports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 1-61 00 • http://www.nd.edu/-recsport 
lliESE SCiSSoRS ARE SHARP! 
NEVER,NEVER,AfEV~R 
PLAY WITH THESE! IT'S A 
MIRACLE You WER9'fT 
HVRT, SWEET! E.' 
I (II ,. 


l OON'T MA.NY 
CAN '«)U LIC.K THE lOP OF YOUR OWN 1-\E.AO? 
BILL AMEND 
TALl< ABOUT
" 
i 
SHoRT-Ll VED RELIEF. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON TIUS DAY: lim Robbins, Suzanne Somers, Angela Lansbury, Eugene O'Neill 
Happy Birthday: This will be a year of great progress for you if you follow through on all the ideas thai you want to implement. You will have the drive, the determination and the wherewithal to make things hap­pen if you just stick to your set goals and refuse to be tempted to waste time pursuing other people's endeav­ors. It's time to put yourself first. Your numbers: 6, 14, 23, 32, 36,41 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Get down to business and get yourself into shape. Involvement with chil­dren will keep you hopping. Go after your dreams. Use your initiative to get the ball rolling. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your ability to do wellJ'rofessionally is quite evident. Spen time working on those hobbies that you enjoy so much. The people you live with will be hard to understand today. 00000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Talk to friends about your current situa­tion. Valuable advice will be avail­able. Take a long, hard look at your­self and make the necessary and applicable alterations. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Trav­eling about will be very hectic for you today. Elders may need to lean on you for assistance. It is always best to avoid confrontations with relatives. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will dazzle others with your colorful sto­ries. You love the limelight, and the chance to capture new friends and lovers will be yours. Your confidence will enable you to influence those 
Birthday Baby: You were born with what il lakes to be great. Don't let your lazy side hold you back from accomplishing all that vou're capable of. You are a wanderer, always looking for something different. You want to try new things in search of fame and fortune. 
• OF INTEREST 

Holy Cross Associates Chile Meeting -A meeting to discuss the Holy Cross Associates volunteer pro­gram in Chile will be held from 7:15-8 p.m. on . Thursday, Oct. 15, at the CSC. All who are thinking of 
applying are encouraged to attend. 
Candax McNair Recruitment Meeting -will be 
held tonight at 6 p.m. in 116 O'Shag. All studenl'> who 
are interested in Graduate School and are either from 
low·incom~ families or minorities should attend. 
'''\"'Natural Family Planning Classes -A six part class series for engaged and married couples who wish to practice Natural Family Planning will begin at 7 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune and will last until 9 
p.m. 
The classes are co-sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Natural Family Planning Program of St. Joseph County. Call 237-7405 for more information. Learn why 98 porcent of NFP couples stay happily married. 

"Getting Into Grad Schools in International Affairs" -Representatives from the Center for International & Public Affairs (Columbia University) School of Foreign Service (Georgetown University) and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy (Tufts University) will make a presentation and provide infor­mation on the application process and answer ques­tions about graduate schools. It will be held at 4:15 

p.m. 
in Seminar Room C-103 of tlw Hesburgh Center for International Studies. · 



Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
who could further your career. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make som(' very favorable changes. Usc your wit and charm to enhance your n-putation. Social gath­erings will be lo your advantage. Your prt'cist• attitude will attract oth­ers.OOO 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take heed of the advice that you've been given. You will be experiencing changes in your home environment. Acceptance will be the key to getting through a period of uncertainty. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Investments can be lucrative, but ther must also be conservative. Your pro­fessional goals can be achieved if you're willing to put in the time and effort that will be required. 0000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): You must work at getting ahead in your chosen industry. You will have the fortitude to get involved in com­petitive sports and self-improvement projects. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Sudden good fortune will be yours if you're willing to take a chance. Don't overspend on luxury items or on entertainmenl. You will have the opportunity to take care of an elder's personal papers. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Your mate may overn:>act to your per­sonal situation. You will have to be more affectionate with him or her if you wish to keep this insecure lover. 000 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): You will haw the ability to encourage col­leagues. Your creati\·e approach to life will be inspiring to others. Your per­sonal parlm•r may get angry if you have neglected him or her. 000 

-
....... 
-
.. 




• PW outdueled PE 
• The Notre Dame 
13-12 in a battle oftwo 
men's and women's 
previously unbeaten 
swim teams both fin­
women's interhall 
ished first in the Notre 
Dame relays. 
teams.



PORTS 
p.l2 
p.l7 
THE 

page 20 0 BSERVER Tuesday, October 13, 1998 
• INTERHAll FOOTBAll 

Morrissey's last-second field goal leads to 3-0 win 

looms large. Not only did the team miss his punting, but according to Chamberlin, "We just couldn't get it in the end­zone," a problem that might have been remedied by having the starting fullback available. 
Whatever the case may be, Morrissey now heads towards the playoffs. 
Junior captain St1~ve Bartlett feels his team's strength is cll~fi­nil!dy its defense, rharacteriwd by a full t<~am n!Tort in thn shutout on Sunday. Work remains to be donn. however. 
see STANFORD I page 17 
• CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish finish twelfth in meet 

By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Sports Writer 
It wasn't the best weekend the Notre Dame men's cross country team had seen. 
The Irish finished in a disap­pointing 12th place at a pre­national meet in Lawrence, Kansas. 
Senior Ryan Maxwell 
summed up the performance: "We were embarrassed, no one on the team ran well. Hopefully, we learned what not to do at future events." 
For the third consecutive meet, sophomore Ryan Shay was the first runner to cross the finish line for the Irish. Shay's time of 25:18.18 was good enough for 17th in a field 
of 259 runners representing 19 of the top 40 teams in the nation. 
Second on the team was freshman Luke Watson. Making his first appearance at a major event, Watson finished 77th with a time of 26:08.19. Seniors Ryan Maxwell, Antonio Arce and Tim Englehardt 
see IRISH I page 13 

.INTERHALL fOOTBALL 

Keenan completes undefeated season 
By BRIAN J. HOBBINS Supported by solid play from Sporn Writer Keenan cornerback Nick Costanza and linebacker Joe 
Sunday's premiere interhall Klopp, the defense held Dillon football matchup featured a again and gave the Knights meeting of two of the campus' another opportunity with time most revered men's teams. winding down in tho half. 
Defending champions Keenan Keenan's Venvertloh took met up with South Quad power­advantage of the situation scor­house Dillon. Keenan, sporting ing on a quarterback keeper. A a 3-0 record, looked to finish failed conversion left the score the season undefeated against a at 8-0, where it would remain 2-1Dillonteam. for the rest ofthe half. 
Thejob would not be easy, Dillon Hall was still in the however. Poor offensive execu­game the second half, but failed tion from the Knights combined to put any score on the board. with solid Dillon defense made "They [Dillon] were slow, they for arl interesting matchup. didn't complete many passes, Keenan superstar Craig were slow running, and they Venvertloh was seeing unusual were sloppy," Meade said. pressure. According to Keenan 
"Defense set the tone for the player/coach Dong Min,"We just gam(l;'' Keenan receiver Los capitalized on their mistakes." Meade said. He also noted strong defen­
It was appropriate that given sive play by Keenan. Min uti­this defensive matchup, the lized gutsy special team strategy scoring started with a safety. to preserve the win. 
After even matchup between Late in the game in a fourth­both f:<.(')(')nan and DUlon's. offen­and~long situation, Min called sive units, Dillon's special for a fake p\lnt. Rather than teams found themselves doling out the responsibility of crammed near the Keenan end­the play to someone else, he zone. Keenan senior Marty took a pass 30 yards out of punt Meyer took advantage of a bad formation to keep the Keenan snap; punishing· the punter and offense on the field en route to a putting Keenan ahead, 2-0. 8-0fmal. 
By TED FOX 
Sports Writer 
When dawn b1·oke on Sunday morning. two teams with identi­cal 1-2 records awoke with playoff hopes still alive. 
In the game between Morrissey and Stanford, the philosophy was simple: Win and you're in the playoffs. lose and you can watch them at Stepan. 


In a tight game that show­cased the wills of both teams to make the postseason, Morrissey edged Stanford 3-0 with only seconds remaining to secure its invitation to the interhall foot­ball playoffs. 
Freshman placekicker John Sandowski played the hero for Morrissey in this game. as he connected on a 19-yard field goal with only 15 seconds remaining in the game. 
The misfortune of another kicker was instrumental in set­ting up this game-winning kick. 
In the !Second quarter, Stanford sophomore punter and fullback J.C. Perez fell with an injury. Losing Perez left Stanford in trouble when it was pinned deep on its side of the field late in the fourth quarter. 
Failing to get a drive going after starting on its own 10­yard line, Stanford was forced to punt. 
One problem: Perez was still sidelined with the injury. 
The result'? A 15-yard punt by Matt Lord that left Morrissey with great lleld position. 
This great field position led to the Sandowski field goal that brought home the victory for Morrissey. 

In a game that Stanford junior captain Dave Chamberlin thought his team "pretty much dominated," the loss of Perez 
vs Army at Connecticut 
t~~ October 24, 1:30 p.m. 'A) Friday, 7:30p.m. 


SPORTS 
Cross Country 
• at Central Collegiates 
ATA 
Volleyball Friday, 4:15p.m. 

'b 
vs. Connecticut 
at Duke Friday, 7 p.m. Saturday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 
• 



