
¦ Try a trivia test to prepare for the 
¦ The Chicago Cubs re-signed free agent left fielder 
Thursday

December 7 Quiz.bowl, sponsored by the 
Henry Rodriguez.. 

Class of 200 I. 
DECEMBER 3, 

Scene• 11 
Sports• 14 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 61 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Cracking into the computer boys' club 
Women entering computer science careers 1n. growing numbers 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE N,·ws Writt'r 
When snnior Faye Lenahan walked into Tnrhnology Sm·vice Group, she was orw of nine candidates applying for a com1wlcr programming position at tlm consul ling firm. 
Tlw other eight were men. 

Lnnahan is one ol' 14 computer sci­cm:c minors al Saint Mary's this year who are looking at entering a lield that has bmrn traditionally dominated by men. Saint Mary's women have found a ('.ompclitivn edgti in the field, however. which is something that employers look 

according to associate professor of for." 
mathematics Mary Connolly. 
"We have been very successful placing womnn in this field," she said. 
According to a rncent study by MIT, men typically outnum­bnr women in the computer science field even though the 
wonrnn arn  nqually  
qualilincl.  
Which  is  exactly  

what Lenahan found out in her job search. 
'WOMEN WALK INTO JOB INTERVIEWS AND THE JOBS COME 
THROUGH.  WOMEN CAN DO  
THIS.'  
MARY CONNOUY  

ASSOCIATE PROFESSOR OF MATH 
Lenahan recently signed with Technology Service Group for a following her graduation. Edging competitors for the job -most of them male -is some­thing that she attrib­utes to her under­graduate education at Saint Mary's. 
"Studying computer science at Saint Mary's has delinitely been an advantage," she said. "Studying 
"Wnnrnn handle things differently with women, we didn't notice that than mnn," Lenahan said. "Gnnerally, there are fewer women in the field. lt's tlwy have better int,~rpcrsonal skills, not glaring at you in the face. It wasn't 
something that we had to worry about." 
Studies completed by MIT and the Association for Computing Machinery revealed that out of all undergraduate computer science degrees awarded nationally, only one-third are earned by women. That number is lower for women who pursue the field in gradu­ate school. and even lower for those continuing on to receive doctoral degrees. 
Connolly said that the all-women environment at Saint Mary's reduces or eliminates many of the factors that contribute to keeping women out of the computer science field. 
"[Gender) problems simply don't exist here," Connolly said. "Male domi­nance in the classroom isn't a problem. Women don't have to fight men in the 
see GENDER/ page 4 

ICTC offering mixes teaching, volunteerism 
By MAGGY TINUCCI 
News Writer 
When considering options for lifo after Notrn Dame, service orten emerges as a plausiblo option, and the lnrwr-City Teaching Corps (ICTC) provides gradu­ates with the opportunity to work towards a teaching certificate or Masters in Education by dcdir,ating two years of service towards educating underprivi­leged children. 
Similar to the ACE program, the Inner­City Teaching Corps is a volunteer ser­vice program that places recent college graduates in positions as f'ull-iirne class­room teachers in the inner-city parochial schools of Chicago. 
"We look for those graduates who demonstrate a commitment to service and the values of service," said Greg Mooney of ICTC. "Our teachers are peo­ple who want to reflect upon that service and place it in the broader context of their lives." 
Pat Hyan, a graduate of Georgetown University, established ICTC seven years ago in response to a need for service­based teaching in Chicago. lie began teaching in the urban-most areas of the Windy City and knew that there were other graduates who desired to do the same, but did not know how to go about it. lie subsequently established the ICTC, which would enable 1vaduates to pro­vide an invaluable service to those who needed it the most -underprivileged children. 
"We focus only on Chicago because there is a trnmendous need specifically here. In concentrating here and not expanding to other cities, we are able to 
see TEACHING / page 4 

¦ STUOENT SENATE 


Senate learns moribund finances improving 
By TIM LOGAN 
A1sis1;1m News Editor 
The Sh1d1\nl Senate rncniv11d an updutn 1111 Slt1d1rnt Union linancm; through tlw lirst third ol' llui liscal y11ar from trnasurer T..I. Wolff' 011 Wt1drw:-;rlay. 
Thi• V11i11n. which is still rncov­nring from last ynar's $fih,OOO c!1ibl, is in good shapu financially this t,,rm. an.ording to Wolfe. Many of Uw organizations with­in llin Studnnt Union, including llw Oflicn of thn Pr1!siclnnt and StlldPnl l lnion Board, arP work­ing with rndt1cml funds in an 1•ffort lo pay oil' last ynar's clr,bts. 
"W1!'rn pll'asccl with what':-; going on," Wolfo said, noting that tlw major nrticns am thus far on truck Lo stay within bud­got. "Thern's been u lot of improvm1wnt over last yeai·." 
Them am several organiza­tions that arti over budget for this time in the year -currently at tlrn orrn-third point, SUB spnnt more than half its allotlnd concerts budget, an amount cxpcctnd lo increase when bills for last 01011th 's Third Eye Blind show comn in. The class of 200 l also spent morn than half ol' its budg11t in the first four months of the fisca.l yr.ar, which rnn from .luly I to Oct. :iJ. 
Wolrn, howcvnr, nxpncted these numbers to evnn oul as thP fiscal year progrllSS!\S, not­ing that costs for many of these !{roups arn higher when school is in SP.ssion. lie also pointed out that some organizations, such as Off-Campus Council and four groups within the Ollice or the Presidnnt, spent none of tlrnir allotted funds in tlrn first third of' the year. 
Ultimately, the treasurer was optimistic about the state of Student Union finances. 
"If we can stick with this ... we can come out where we want to 

be," Wolfe said. "We need to keep an eye on it, that is what's crucial." 
Student Business Board, which runs Adworks, ND Vidno and Irish Cardens. 
The Shirt made a profit of' $207, IJ00.4 7 in I 91J8, according to .lanrns Jnssn, assistant studnnt union treasurer. This amount exceeds tho $200,000 goal for lhc projnct, and will provid11 $100,000 in l'unds for the Student Union. The rnmaining $ l 07. <JOO will I.Jo donatnd to charitable organizations. 
The Student Business Board saw $10,235.(J!i in profits from July through (ktobnr, according to assistant student union trna­surnr Brian Sw,iet. That amount nearly quadruples last year's profit of $2,592.32 for tlrn peri­od. Most of thn incrnasn camn in Irish Gardens, which, in October, saw a more than $9,000 increase in performance over last October. Sweet atlrib­
see MONEY I page 4 

The Senate also received an update on the financial perfor­mance of The Shirt and the 


page2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
The Great 
S-wer 
To dance or not to dance. that is the ques­tion. 
Actually, this isn't really a question during the time that approaches, otherwise known as The Weekend of the ------­
Endless SYR (phoneti­cally pronounced, as my friend Heather pointed out, "Swer." lncidentallv, this friend still needs a date I.his weekend, and she's cute). 

It happens at the eud Heather MacKenzie of every fall semester, when the football sea­son has ended and every dorm scrambles to cram one last University-sanctioned drunken orgy into the one pigskin-f'ree 2 a.m. parietal time period that remains. It's time to dust off your little black dresses ladies, because this weekend is the dream of the dateless. Out of the 28 dorms on campus, a whopping 13 are having dances this weekend. That means that just about everyone, save a few hundred people, could potentially have a dal.e. No fair going to two dances ... leave some dates for the rest of campus. God knows there is a shortage. Now, I like to get a little happy and dance around a dorm room at a freshman-party­but•dressier as much as anyone, bul I think the problem with dating on this campus lies inherent in the idea of the Swer. Here's the theoretical concept: Dorm hosts great big party so everyone can have a good time with all their friends. Now here's the Theoretical Concept translated into a real-life situation: Dorm hosts great big party centered around the consumption of alcoholic beverages, where you have a good time with your friends and also your date, whom may be acquainted with your good friends but has never laid eyes on you before tonight. The theoretical outcome of this night is quite obvious, as it is the general belief of all rectors and administrators and anyone else who is generally considered important (theo· reticaUy, of course) on this campus. That belief is that everyone has a good time, goes home happy and wakes up bright-eyed and bushy-tailed in the morning. If you have ever actually attended a Swer, as most of these so-called important figures have not, you probably know the more com­mon outcome: Random hook-up with the date youid never met before last night, puke all over that cute little black dress and eyes that are anything but bright the morning after. Basically, the Swer is a disaster waiting to happen, because the University thinks it is a good idea to mix a largely dating-inexperi­enced student body with large quantities of alcohol and lots of beds. I count myself among the lucky few who are attending a dance this weekend with a significant other. So maybe there was none of the excitement that comes with waiting by the phone in the hope that cute-backwards­baseball-cap-in-the-dining-hall-at-6: 13-p.m. ­boy might call and ask you to his dance after some small talk about exactly how much corn pudding you ate over break, but at least I know that I won't have to avoid eye contact with my random drunken hookup for the rest of my days as a Domer. Swers can be a lot of fun, but if you really like your random date, thank him by taking him to a movie next weekend instead of get­ting on top of him at the dance. You'll like yourself a lot more in the morning. 
The l'iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 

• TooAv'S STAFF  
News  
Derek Betcher  Graphics  
Magi,,y Tinucci  Cri~rin Manary  
Spons  Production  
Anthony Bianco  Shannon Ryan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Liu!!  Meg Kranoer  
Scene  

Loubel Cruz 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is P"blished Monday rhrough Friday 
l"Xcept during exam and vacation. period,;. The Observer is a member of the Associated Pres~. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, December 3, 1998 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Yale's tobacco stock shoots up as a result of settlement 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
It's time to light a cigar and cele­brate. Two weeks after 46 states dropped their lawsuits against the tobacco industry in exchange for fat settlement checks, tobacco stocks are soaring to their highest prices in years. And good news for Big Tobacco means morn money for Yale.Yale's tobacco investments totaled $16.9 million in June 1997, the last time the University announced its holdings. Heavy investment in Philip Morris made the tobacco company one of the 20 largest holdings in Yale's domestic equity portfolio. 
Despite the ethical objections of members of the Yale community, last spring the Yale Corporation decided against divesting its tobacco holdings. 
And the recent deal should make Yale's tobacco addiction even more irresistible. 
While the states' attorneys general 
,, 
iiilllil 
claim victory for negotiating the $206 billion settlement the largest in U.S. history, market analysts agree that the real winners in the settlement are tobacco companies and their stock• holders. 
"Clearlv there is a realization that the overwhelming risk has been removed," said David Adelman, a Morgan Stanley tobacco analyst. 
Un tiJ recently, political and legal uncertainties darkened the industry's fiscal future. Then, this summer, the national tobacco bill fell apart in Congress, and a federal appeals court denied the Food and Drug Administration the right to regulate tobacco as an addictive product. 

The political threat vanished in a puff of smoke. 
The recent settlement eliminated the bulk of the industry's legal risk. In exchange for tho $206 billion payoff to the states and a promise to curb advertising, the tobacco companies snuffed out a legal liability that had threatened to bankrupt the industry. 
"They wern always worried about the two green slots on the roulette wheel," said Charles Gabriel. a senior political analyst who studies the tobacco industry for Prudential Securities. 
The advertising curb further stacks the chips in favor of big tobacco com­panies like Philip Morris, which domi­nates 50 percent of the industry's market share. 
¦ BOSTON UNIVERSITY Stolen Monet on display in art exhibit 
BOSTON, Mass. 

Boston University Rabbi Joseph Pollack yesterday criti• cized the Museum of Fine Art for failing to identify one the paintings in its popular Claude Monet exhibition as being among hundreds of works stolen by the Nazis dur· ing World War IL "To display that Monet without saying that it was a piece confiscated by the Nazis is to airbrush history," said Pollack, of BU's Hillel House. "The museum is not regretful." The Boston Globe reported Saturday that Monet's "Water Lilies 1904," on loan to the MFA from the Musees Nationaux de France, is one of nearly 2,000 pieces stolen by the Nazi army during World War II and now in the hands of the French government. The Globe reported yesterday that the painting had been posi· tively identified by Jonathan Petropoulos, an expert in Nazi art thefts who claims the work was taken from French-Jewish art collector Paul Rosenberg in 1941. 
¦ LOU!SANA STATE UNIVERSITY Students raise money for legal fees 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

As the deadline for Salvador Cupe-Bechas legal fees draws 
near, students are still working to raise money to help him 
stay in the United States. Cupe-Becha is trying to avoid being 
deported to his home country of Equatorial Guinea so he will 
not be persecuted by a regime that has come to power in 
that country. Students have raised $764.35 of the estimated 
$2,500 they need to help Cupe-Becha, according to Nadia 
Torregano, one of the helpers. Right now, Cupe-Becha's 
attorney, Jeri Flynn of Baton Rouge, has decided to file for 
political asylum on his behalf. "Hopefully, I might have an 
interview with the immigration people before school starts 
[in January]," he said. If officials decide at the hearing not to 
grant him political asylum, the case goes to a judge for an 
appeal. he said. "As long as a decision is pending, I will still 
be able to go to school," said Cupe-Becha, who is one semes­
ter away from a degree in agronomy. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA Student strike resonates to other areas 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 

Members of Graduate Students Organizing Congress at the University of Minnesota are currently holding a signa­ture drive to obtain a union vote for graduate assistants. In order to obtain one, they need signatures from 35 per­cent of eligible graduate assistants, graduate teaching assistants or graduate research assistants. GradSOC mem­bers say already more than 35 percent of graduate assis­tants have signed union cards. They will vote today on whether to submit the signatures to the state Bureau of Mediation Services, which will check the signatures to ensure their validity. Britt Abel, a member of GradSOC's steering committee, said she support's the graduate stu­dents at the University of California. She said the situation at the University is different from California's, so the chances of a graduate assistant strike at the University are very low. 
¦ STANFORD UNIVERSITY Researchers propose HIV treatment 
STANFORD, Calif. 

The best strategy for treating HlV infection may not 
involve attacking the virus itself. A recent study by Stanford 
researchers suggests that a more e!Tective strategy may be 
to interfere with the virus' ability to utilize the cellular 
resources of its host. "Traditional therapies all attack the 
virus itself," said Gary Nolan, assistant professor of molecu­
lar pharmacology and senior author of the study. Currently 
available treatments for HIV infection rely on anti-viral 
drugs that atlack molecular targets unique to the virus. The 
problem with this approach, Nolan said, is that it does not 
take long for the virus to change itself. Like many viruses, 
HIV can mutate rapidly. As a result of its genetic malleabili­
ty, the virus is able to evolve resistance to anti-viral drugs in 
a short period of time. Thus, many treatment strategies that 
rely on these drugs are only temporarily e!Tective in combat• 
ing HIV. 

• Sourn BEND WEATHER 


5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Dec. 3.
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
30s 


...-,p-......... .....,,. 
COi.i) WAFIM STATIONARY 


S4 Indianapolis 76 56 67 Los Angeles 77 59 34 Miami 85 77 90 75 New York 70 60 


---·----------~ 
Thursday, December 3, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
LeMans Hall Spirit Week readies students for Christmas 

PR~JECT 
Projcd Warmth ends u,;s Friday, Dec. 4 so don't rorgct to... Gm: away your coal and SHARE nm WARMIH.

WARMTH 
CENTI!R FOR !JOCIAL CONCERNS 

Pro;ect Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help you, once again, share the Notre Dame warmth and spirit. 
When you rum in your ooar or jacket October 26, l998 rhrough December 4, 1998 at rhe C.nr<r for Social Concerns, the Hammes Bookstore or 
orhcr prominenrfy displayed locations around campus, PROJECT WARMTil., and The Univcrsiry of Nmrc Dame will donate ir to someone who can R'ally use it this wimcr. In return, you wlJI 
rcwve a ccrtilicarc good for 25% offa new GE.AR For Sporrs"' jacket at the Hammes Booksmn,. 
SHARE nl£ WARMTH AND THE: SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAM 
l.'nu1tcm,N Sm.s.: r.emer for-.\bdal Com:erns • f/mnmes Hool"ilore . 
• SlmW,zt aomnm1eti1 •.l/ Mid,ael's hmnflry -M,ii1' mJtf C:mn/ms · JJL\"lriJmlitm Ctmter • l.aFontme hifnrmaHon JJesk • Aim,ml 
Litt(~ Pie. little pig. let 
Assoclalum • 423 Cr'mce I/all • A/1. Res1de11ce !lalf.s • 204 COBA • 257 1-"ilZfXllrid: !fall • 100 lloud /fall • 103 I.aw .\'dJOnJ • 
me m... 
137 o· SbaR • 2(}2 lf11r/ey 

G_E_A_R '"'::.:.,-""'"'""''''"""'' 1"Q.'•··,..,m,11s,1,am ,.,..,,.MMU•tt~•~...,..,~ 
, •• ''·•·: d. ~g 



LIFE 
Each January 22nd and 23rd, Notre Dame Right 10 Life sponsors a trip to Washington DC for 1he National March For Ufe 

on the anniversary of 
Roe vs Wade. We 
encourage you to join 
us this year as we work 
to protect the unborn. 
Register for the trip in the Dining Halls and Lafortune 
Tuesday Dec. 1st, Wednesday Dee.. 2nd, and Thursday 
Dec. 3rd. Look for sign-uptables during lunch and dinner. 
For more information call 1-9006 
"Irish Fighting For Life'' 
By SARAH MAGNESS 
News Writer 

Holiday scents of pine trees and cookies permeate LeMans Hall not just as preparation for Christmas, but also as part of the celebration of Lo Mans Hall Spirit Week. 
"We are trying to bring resi­dents tognther to create unity and excitement before our dance," said Le Mans Hull Council presi­dent Johanna Tario. 
All dorms at Saint Mary's have a spirit weAk, which coincides with their hall dances, except for Hegina Hall, which will have its spirit week second semester because of a delayed hall elec­tions. 
Committees within the LeMans Hall Council have been meetii1g for several weeks to plan. the week-long event, according to hall director Jill Aitchison. The group hopes to bring the hall residents together as a community and to 
'WE 
ARE TRYING TO 
BRING STUDENTS TOGETHER TO CREATE UNITY AND EXCITEMENT.' 
JOHANNA TAR/0 LEMANS HALl COl!NCIL PRESIDENT 
give students a good opportunity for a break from studying in part by sponsoring activities every day this week in the Le Mans Hall 
lobby. 

Contractors work to install and seal doors and windows on the new Eck Center and bookstore before winter weather forces finishing work on the project indoors for the season. 
Tree decorating on Thursday will highlight the week's mood. 
"This is the first tree in Lr. Mans that the ri~sidcnts hav(~ put up. There has been a tree put up every year by the administration, but this is the residents' tree," said Amy Johns, a member of the spirit week committee. 
Tarin expects a good turnout for this functions and notes there has been good attendance in the past. 
"Unfortunately, this week is a bad week for people because of finals coming up, but we want the residents to know wfl have planned fun activities," sho added. 
Mask decorating took place Wednesday afternoon in prepara­tion for Friday's Masquerade dance. Tickets remain on sale until Thursday. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 



Read about Notre Dame's off-limits tunnel system in tomorrow's issue of The Observer. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 

~ESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 10, 1998 
Friday, December 11, 1998 Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students &Seniors Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128. 
page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 3, I 998 
Gender 
continued from page 1 
labs for time on the machines. Security in the labs isn't a prob­lem for women working late at night." 
Co-ed classrooms typically pro­duce stereotypes that continue in the professional arena. According to the ACM and MIT studies, people hold diffnent expectations for women than for their male counterparts who may be performing the same jobs. Furthermore, the study found women's self-con11dence to be lower, thus making the stereotype obstacle an even larg­er threat to women entering the field. 
"The all-women environment allows a woman to develop her ability. She is forced to express what she knows and what she does not know," Connolly said. "Our students go on and more than hold their own. They have developed self-confidence." 
Tlrn all-women environment helps foster confidence in the teclmology field because women do not have to fear people "grab­bing the limelight," Connolly said. 
Lenahan agreed that fostering self-confidence was an important factor in her education at Saint Mary's. 
"At my internship over the summer. l worked with 15 pro­grammers and was the only woman," she said. "At first, it was difficult. Sometimes [ felt like I wasn't given as challenging work because I was a woman. But after they saw what l could do, they were really impressed,'' Lenahan said. "I feel confident enough in what Saint Mary's has taught me. They have made me a confident woman." 
Senior Tracy Patzner, who is currentl.y interviewing for jobs in the computer science lield, expe­rienced a similar situation in her internship. 
"Out of 60 ptrnplc in the olllce, 12 were women, and only 6 of thosf\ workfld on the computers." she said. "You notice it all the time. But Saint Mary's does an excellent job of instilling self­confidence in their students, which I think is a major contrib­utor to why these situations don't intimidate me." 
While Saint Mary's docs not offer a computer science major, the minor program comLiued with another major area is what attracts employers to Saint Mary's women, according to Connolly. 

"Tho decision not to have a computer science major is some­thing that was a deliberate deci­sion to remain faithful to the lib­eral arts core," said Connolly. "Computer science is a field that you must be able to cope with changes and continually learn on the job. Recruiters have told us that this is exactly the type of background that allows growth on the job." 
Encouraging more women to go into the field begins at an early educational stage, accord· ing to researchers. Studies have shown that women are typically pushed away from technology at a young age. The American Association of University Women (AAUW) reported in October that one of the primary reasons for the gender gap is that girls are not encouraged to use comput­ers as problem-solving tools, meaning that they will lack a competitive edge when it comes to applying for jobs in the future. 
This is particularly evident in high school classrooms, where only 25 percent of girls have taken computer science classes, compared to 30 percent of boys. Last yea.r's Advanced Placement computer science exam reports that only 17 percent of test-tak­ers were women. 
Connolly admits that engaging women at a young age would increase the number of women in the field. 
"The more students we can reach in high school, the bettM," she said. "This is a fun field. If we can get thflm hooked, they can start earlier." 
Much of the problem is in the high school curriculums them­selves, which often do not offer computer programming courses. 
Patzner took courses at a local college in order to pursue her interest in LheJield. 
"My high school offer,~d typing, but that was it. I really got inter­ested when I went to classes at the college." 
But even though most women won't take a computer science course in high school -statistics show boys outnumber girls 5 to l in high school classrooms -this need not necessarily prevent them from pursuing .the prof'es­sion, Connolly said. 
"Most [college] programs do nnt require computer science," she said. "What we look for is someone with a good sense of logic, whn is a good problem solver, who has a strong math­ematical background and who can deal with frustration," she said. 
Lenahan admits that she never considered a career in computer science prior to college. 
"I never took a computer course in high school," she said. "I wasn't even going to buy a computer for school. I took 'Intro to Computer Programming' my freshman year, and just enjoyed it a lot," she said. 
Recruiting women into the field is an ongoing process, par­ticularly at the university level. Female undergraduates peaked in 1983-84 nationally, hut then showed a steep drop off. 
"People caught on to how di11i­cult this is," said Connolly. "People see the glamour, the jobs, the big bucks -tlrny didn't see how frustrating it is." 
Connolly's main concern, how­ever, is recruiting students who will be successful in the field. 
"I ask a lot of my students guilt-free if they are willing to really work," she said. "This isn't a profession where you work a 40 hour week. The demands are high." 
But time and time again. she said, she has seen the results. 
"In our systems analysis and dosign coursn, students develop real-world software," she said. "This is something the women walk into job interviews with, and the jobs come through. Women can do this." 

Teaching 
continued from page 1 
focus our energy on Chicago and we are also able to offer personal atten­tion and support to our volunteers," Mooney explained. ICTC members live in a faith-based community which stresses the religious dimension between participants. 
"As a privately-run organization working with the archdiocese, the corps is an ecumenical program which promotes inner-faith dialogue," Mooney said. 
The program offers this dialogue within a framework for reflection and spiritual development and encourages corps members to draw connections between service, community life and faith. 
ICTC is geared toward non-educa­tion majors and members participate in a specially-designed Alternative Teacher Certification Program devel­oped in partnership with the School of Education and Social Policy at Northwestern University. Teachers go through eight weeks of student teach­ing before they are alone in Chicago's classrooms. 
Upon the completion of the two­year ICTC program, participants are certified to teach in the city of Chicago. If they desire to continue towards a Masters in Education, ICTC offers a scholarship program to work towards that goal. 

Money 
continued from page 1 
uted tho Business Board's success to better management. 
In other senate news: 
• SUB board manager Ryan Stecz asked the senate for action regarding posters on boards in residence halls and classroom buildings. Stecz said he has received warn­ings from the Student Activities Office regarding SUB posters put up in the wrong place. He noted that the main reason for incorrect placement of posters is a lack of space on authorized boards. Officially, posters can only be placed on certain bul­letin boards in residence halls and some campus buildings. 

"Either increase the amount of' space to advertise or make a new rule that lets rec­tors decide where signs can be hung in dorms," Stecz said. 
There is no authorized space for posters to be hung in DeBartolo Hall or the College of Business Administration, two of the most frequented buildings on campus. 
• 
Steven Sanchez was nominated to replace Mark Higgins as Student Senate parliamentarian. Higgins, who served as the body's secretary last year. is going abroad next semester. The parliamentari­an is responsible for advising the senate on procedural issues. 

• 
Student body president Peter Cesaro announced the creation of an on line book selling service which can be accessed on the student government web page. 




Thursday, December 3, 1998 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Bloodbank warns of contaminated blood 
NEW YOHK 

The nation's larg1•st. indnpf'ndcnt blood hank issLwd a public warning to thousands 111' transf11sio11 rncipi1•11ts i11 thrnll cilies, saying tlwy might hav1\ rernivf'd blood that was improperly l1\sted for the AIDS virus a11d lrnpatitis. Tim move comns morn than a y11ar al'tPr 1.wo lab supnrvisors wero con­victnd of l,unp1•ring with blood tnsts at the Ni•w York Blood C:nntPr. Within Lhn past monlh. lhP cPnlPr rwlilfod recipients in Chicago, Pittsburgh and Memphis, Te11u. NPw York riicipienls weni alertud two y,,ars ago, ufl1\r tile problem surfaced in nwdia rnporls. No viral infections have lw1•11 lin kocl to blood used in transfusions in any ol' lfrn cities from 1991 LO 1<J96. blond rcnt1ir orticials said yestcirday. adding that the risk of' infoction was vnry low. 
Men plead innocent to murder of gay student 
L/\HAMIE. Wyo. 

Tlw two nwn charged in the murder of gay rnll1•gc sludm1t Mattlrnw Shepard both plP,Hlt!cl in11oc1H1l y11slNday and fix peel to l'ind out lwforP tlw mHI or tlw year whether thPy rnulcl l'a1:e the d11ath penalty. Hussel! Arthur llfindt\rson and Aaron .lamns McKinnny Pntcred their pleas during sopa­ralll !warings. .ludgn .Jeffrey Donnell said lrn will set trial dates al a Dec. 10 hearing. l11inderson and McKinney, both 21, arc charged with first-degree murder, aggra­vated robbury and kidnapping with intent to innict bodily injury or lo terrorize the victim. Shepard, beaten and robbed Oct. 7, was targeted because he was gay, accord­ing to testimony al an earlier court hear­ing. lie was bnund and tied to a wooden fnnceposl in the foothills outside of Laramie, about 50 miltis west of Cheyenne. Thu 21-year-old University of Wyoming freshman died live days later. 
World Buddhist Conference held at Buddha's birthplace 
LUMBINI. Nepal 

/\mid loud religious chants, hundreds of monks and other worshippers gathered at thu birthplace of the Buddha to open the World Buddhist Conference. Nepal's Crown Prince Dipendra inaugurated the two-day meeting by unveiling a multicolored tradi­tional flag at a religious ceremony Tuesday. "l.umbini has now become the symbol of world peace and goodwill. Everyone should make a pilgrimage to l.umbini at least once in their life," said Nepal's prime minister, c;irija Prasad Koirala. Monks from Nepal, 1wighboring India and nine other countries am taking part in the conference. 
••1lMt&ifutNdl.Ji..­
Dow 
AMEX: 
659.94

]ONES 
.J.O(i 
Nasdaq:

9064.54 

1995.21 -8.54 NYSE: 571.79 -1.54 S&P 500: 1171.25 

Composite
-4.0.3 

Volume: -69.00 788,300.000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

I IUdC,,U~~ unnK ·n1 ,·u~r;iml· S h&I~ 1·e1ri 
IHH.INt, 11A -lb.Sb •b.6675 .1.J.aK75 
IHJI COMN11rH PHI •2.12 1--l '.\7~0 f,6. IH1~ 
l ·t1M!1All (·l>Ml1111fH n·o -th,56 +-.Z..2500 ;16.~62~ 
!'h1K IN\ Mill! +I \4.24 T5.6K/., 
') ..17~ 

'il)N Ml<.IJ()S\'~"Jl.M\ \UNW .),27 .; Hin 74.12~ MH kPlliillJ"l n >RI' M~rr .2 12 -2.750() 126.75 INTH L-Okl1 INK .i,2; -l.HI.I ILl.:i625 WAVU'JtONl INC WAV\.l ·.'7.7{) -5..75{1(1 Y.S M'J'I IW MATf:HUI AMAT +J? U«J +Li7~} 4.IKJ25 (.ff.K llVNAMll:~ f.ffK +-122.92 +14.7500 l6 15 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

A5SOCIATED PRESS Palestinians want released, Netanyahu out of the car and, as he cowered on 
said in a statement. the pavement. was struck repeatedly 
Stung by a vicious attack on an Israeli The decision came only 10 days on the head with rocks. soldier, the government announced before President Clinton was to arrive Captured by cameras, the attack was yesterday it was suspending further in the region to usher in the second shown over and over on Israeli televi­troop withdrawals until Palestinians stage of the Wye River land-for-security sion, making some Israelis wonder if comply with a list of demands, includ­agreement he helped negotiate in the Palestinian Authority really was ing publicly abandoning plans to October. trying to control violence like it pledged declare a state in May. The Israeli announcement raised to do in the land-for-peace agreement. 
Palestinian officials rejected the questions about whether the Clinton The ambush overshadowed the stab­demands outright and charged that trip could take place while Israel was bing death early yesterday of an Arab Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin holding up the agreement. street-cleaner in Jerusalem, apparently Netanyahu was looking for excuses to State Department spokesman James by an Israeli extremist. During the knock the peace process off track. Rubin said the pullback was an obliga­funeral procession for Osama Natche, a 
In Washington, the Clinton adminis­tion and, in a statement aimed at 41-year-old father of six, mourners tration was sharply critical of the new Netanyahu, added, "We do not think it torched an Israeli' car and stoned Israeli conditions and said the accord is appropriate to add new conditions." Israeli police who fired rubber bullets. "should be implemented as signed." At the same time, Rubin condemned Hours later, rioting throughout tradi­The Israeli government said its decision the attack in Ramallah, saying, "That is tionally Arab east Jerusalem continued, was prompted in part by the attack on clearly the kind of violence that has no with masked Palestinians throwing the soldier and a civilian earlier in the place in the peace process." stones at cars and blocking roads with day by a Palestinian mob in the West In the ambush in Ramallah, dozens of burning tires. Jerusalem police Bank city of Ramallah. Palestinian university students waited spokesman Shmuel Ben Ruby said five 
"The Palestinian Authority is encour­at a traffic circle, screening cars. Once Palestinians were arrested for throwing aging acts of violence, such as today's they found what they wanted, a hail of stones that shattered a bus window and brutal attack in Ramallah, in an stones hit targeted vehicle, smashing its injured the driver. attempt to pressure Israel with regard windows. Israel and the Palestinian Authority to the matter of the prisoners" the A young Israeli soldier was dragged blamed each other for the violence. 
U.S. urge8 rebmiiof war property 
AsSOCIATED PRESS the conference will reach · again,'' Eizenstat said. full access by Dec. 31, 
consensus before it ends Eizenstat said he expects 1999. He was pessimistic 
WASHINGTON today on broad guidelines general agreement, too, on over the possibility that the 
The United States urged for returning property a:M. an internaUonal cotnmis­Vatican would comply. 
central European coun• art looted by th.e Nazis iil .•.. sion's goal of paying off an "I'm looking for causes to 
tries yestEirday to qui~kly World War ll and, if p~t t:i!ltimated 800,000 be optimistic in this case." 
r.eturn to Jewish groups '\v~r·owners ol'.heirs ateu't :. wartime life insJtrnnee he said. "I have not found 
synagogues, schools. com-" fciun(l;. offering unspecltle;d w policies owned. hy ,Jewish them yet."
mnnlty centers and ceme.: 'refiressif possible: .. ·.·•·.. ; >'fa:milies. Six Europeah The four-day conference 
teries taken by Nazi Although the guiding 'insurance companies involves 44 countrlt1s, th(1 
Germany and kept for principles will be nonbim;l-already have contributed Vatican and more than a 
decades by communist ing on participating gov-$90 million, and dozen groups representing 
governments. ernments a.t the confer• Hungarian and Czech offi• Jewish, art, history and 
''Delay and obfuscation ence, Eizenstat said dele-cials pledged at the confer­insuranc(J intt~rosts. 
could simply nm the clock gates have indicated a · ence to work toward a set­Communal property, 
out on Holocaust sur­"sense of urgency" in tlement. Eizenstat including religious land, 
vivors," Stuart Eizcnstat, righting past wrongs. He appealed to other nations buildings. artifacts and 
undersecretary of state, suggesttid there's no turn~ and companies to join in. documents such as Urn 
told an lnternationnl con­ing back after such a pub• · .Getting countries to open Torah was "one of Orn 
f'erence. ''To delay justice lie examination of morally archives to researchers early t£4rgets of the Nazi 
further would dishonor us tainted art and property. and private individuals to rtiginrn" of wartime 
all." ''The art world, insofar document claims has Cormany, which persecut­
In an interv-hiw, as dealing in Nazi-looted proven difficull, but ed Jews and then killed 6 
Eizcnstat said it appears art, will never be the same Elzenstat said the goal is million, Eizenstat said. 
www> 
fr,. ,... 

page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, December 3, 1998 
Fire destroys Pullman building 
Associated Press manufacturing sleeping cars cars to Pullman cars, and there in 1982, but it served as President Grover Cleveland, 
fire 
ClllCAGO 
Fire destroyed the last remaining structure of the Pullman Works, the railroad car factory where one of the most important battles of the American labor movement was fought during the 1890s. 
The factory once was famous for its elegant railroad cars, and the company was also at the heart of a dispute that increased the status of black workers. The neighbor­hood itself was once a city created and owned by the company. 
"It all started there," said Leslie Orear, president of the Illinois Labor History Society. "You can't talk about history of the labor movement, the civil rights movement, or even the Democratic Party without talking about Pullman." 
An extra-alarm fire Tuesday night tore through thi> 220,000 squc1rn-foot adminis­tration building that was the capitol of George Pullman's one-time empire beginning in the 1880s, toppling its land­mark clock tower and collaps­ing tho roof. 
Police chargerl a man with arson Wednesday. Anthony Buzinskns. had been in cus­tody since Tuesday night, when authorities found him at the scene of the fire, said police spokesman Pat Camden. He would not elabo­rate on what led to the charges. Buzinskns was scheduled for a bond hearing Thursdav. 
The building has been empty since Amtrak stopped 
anchor of the historic Pullman district on Chicago's South Side. The state of Illinois bought the building in 1990. 
Thousands of tourists visit the neighborhood each year, mostly tu see the architecture of the community Pullman designed to house workers from the new factory complex he began building in 1880. On empty land south of Chicago, the sleeping car mogul built one of the finest 19th century company towns -with com­fortable homes for some 2,500 workers. schools, parks, churches, and even an elegant hotel. 
Although the homes were not large. their harmonious red-brick architecture, remi­niscent of Baltimore or Philadelphia rowhouses, offered a charming relief from the chaos of early Chicago. 
Pullman, the man, was hailed as a benevolent indus­trialist; and Pullman, the neighborhood, was annexed by Chicago in 1889 as the jewel of the South Side. 
But when a recess.ion hit in 1893, Pullman cut wages at his plant while leaving rents in his community at their boomtime level. The workers rebelled, and about half of the 6,300 workers went on strike. Pullman responded by locking them out. 
The American Railway Union, under the leadership of Eugene Debs, then refused to handle any trains containing Pullman cars. 
The railroads countered that move by coupling mail 


What Was That Again? 
Chances are, you're probobly growing weory of all the odvice about starting ocareer. Not just ojob, mind you, but an honest-to-goodness lifetime decision. If that sounds fomilior-and olittle dounting ­
CIGNA is ready to help. 
We're aworldwide leader in financial services. From health core and investment services to protecting lives, homes and businesses, we strive to live up to our reputation as oBusiness of Coring. Our workforce ­approximately 50,000 strong -is diverse, yet everyone is committed to improving the lives of the people we serve every day. 
W... We offer numerous roles for college graduates with a 

"'r variety of backgrounds, but we don't hire people for just one job. Individuals get the chance to define themselves through their strengths and career goals. And we help 
through one-of-a-kind job rntational programs and professional development tracks. 
The people who work here genuinely seem to enjoy the experience. 
Sure, we hand them plenty of responsibility -most prefer (he chollenges to bring out their best. Beyond tho!, we take pnde as acompany in the way we nurture their dreams outside the workplace -in their fomiliesond communities. 
One CIGNA: Many Opportunities. 
We're en equol upportumty employer. M/f/0/V. "CIGNA" refers to CIGNA Corporation and/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most employees ore employed by 1ub11diories ot CIGNA Corporation, which provide insoionce and related products. 
www.dgna.,om 
a· 
CIGNA 
A Business ofCaring. 

over the loud protests of his fellow Democrat, Illinois Gov. John Peter Altgcld, ordered federal troops onto the trains to ensure that the mail got through. 
"There was a great deal of violence around the country, but none in Pullman itself,." Orear said. About 13 people were killed before the strike collapsed in August. 
Debs, who was jailed for his role in the strike, quit the union and became head of the Socialist Party. Altgeld went behind the scenes to purge Cleveland's supporters from Democratic Party leadership and shift the once-conserva­tive party to a pro-union stance. 
The second Pullman labor struggle was a longer and less spectacular affair, but it resulted in a victory for the union and increased status for black workers. 
Pullman had begun hiring freed slaves to work as porters and attendants in his cars as early as 1867, possibly choosing them because they would work for low wages. 
Here comes 
ome. A dead adult@, ·n.g to. ty.>o 6 · d beyond reco 
dre~ di~d tiy
•a storeroom g\',s; ~he.r13•Jh 
bi.·411.•·attempt 

•• ·.•..·•··· .• > .·.·. . • ·. side 
. anage when the fire in 
allenge Yours 
Boston area. and talents while develo g offers opportunity for d, and a liveable stiperi 
eSisters of the Assum.pt 
ntact: Volunteer Coordina.t 214 E.30th St. · 
New York, NY. 10016 (212) 889-4310 email: 1ittlesrs@aol.com 
20 lives 
la.'s. Paco neighborhoodout about 2 a.m. City ofll­a.id faulty wiring in build­h~t were more than 70 
··· ld mi;i.y have been to 
.ipcly.~ed .at·.JeMi .2s.tfi9i'1,l~sai~. ';;()tti~dr.e hui-fod fa the.. d,ehris · e the ·huildin.gs·have ·· 
,c)ni.pletely razed to the ," Fire Captain Filemon said. 
•, tr members who survived ;~~i<lthe f1re burned so quicklythatthey didn't have time to t!'i~yUe many of the children. 
.Carina Bellosillo, a teacher, fJc. she was sleeping on the )ld fwor of the main, two~ · building when she awoke 
es. ~ady, the ceiUng was on 
d the staJrs going up to . . n<1 floor .were• burningt ·said. "l wanted to go 
~p~tairs to save the babies, but rny companions pulled me 
ha.ck" 
Santa Claus! 


Come tell Santa what you want for Christmas!!! 

Santa's available in the LaFortune Ballroom Thursday, December 3 8-11 p.m. 
d/.11ee, ~wdl,, Sa,n/,r;J!I 
Decorate cookies and fill your stockin!) ... Don't forget to brir~ your wtshltst! ! 

Brought to you by the little elves of Student Activities! 
Thursday, December 3, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
student union 
HAPPENINii§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 

Movie: Sliding Doors 12/3. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 12/4. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 12/5. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 12/3. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
HPC (HALL PRE!ilDENT!i' COUNCIL} 

SYRs. 12/4. Friday. Walsh, Sorin, Lyons. 12/5. Saturday. O'Neill, Stanford, Lewis, Morrisey 
Formals. 12/4 Friday. Knott, Zahm 12/5 Saturday. Carroll 
CCC [CLUB COORDINATION COU/1/CILJ 
AAA: Asian Allure. 12/5. Saturday. 
CLASS OF i!DDI 

Quiz Show. 12/6. Sunday. LaFortune 0200PM-0600PM. Quiz Show Primaries 12/8 Tuesday 
STUDENT liDVERNMENT 

Saferide. 631-9888. 12/3. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1 000PM-0200AM. 12/4. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1 000PM-0300AM. 12/5. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1 000PM-0300AM. 
Kellogg Institute: Julian Casanova, visiting fellow, Universidad de Zaragoza: "Revolution and Counter-revolution in the Spanish Civil War: A comparative Analysis": 
Hesburgh Center for International Studies C-103  4:15pm  
Writing Tutors:  
Sundays  Rm. 117 Learning Resource Center in FYS Bldg.  8-10pm  
Mon-Thurs.  7-10pm  
Sun-Thurs.  Rm. 400 Hesburgh Library; also Reckers  8-11pm  
Ml!!iCELLANEDU!!i/CAMPUS-WIDE  
Dept of Music: Student Chamber Music Class Recital.  
12/4.  Friday.  Annenberg Aud. in the Snite  0200PM.  
Dept of Music: ND Collegium Musicum.  
12/4.  Friday.  SMC  0800pm  
VFG Choir Concert  
12/6  Sunday  
Dept of Music: ND Jazz Bands  
12/6  Sunday  Band Building  0800pm  
Spring Registration Ends.  
12/7  
Last Day of Classes  
12/9  


Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. {Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 

~f)80QOOQG0008088800000808080000 
VIEWPOINT 

Step Outside the Bubble 
The most stressful time of the year has come around again: finals time. That two-week rush of last-minute papers and exams is just around the corner, and I can already see the veins in my neck getting a little bit bigger with every passing late night. Add in the pressure of securing that perfect summer job or internship, or perhaps even foraying into that unknown world of Gainful Employment, and the stress can be almost intolerable. 
We become absorbed in the world that we see, the world of lectures and exams and late nights at Reeker's drinking coffee and pounding out papers. We become absorbed in and consumed by the desire to be success­ful, to do something big in life, to prove that we deserved tu a place where we can belong, fit in and again. It was born out of the vague feel at peace. idea that I really was a good person 
When most of us hear "education" or deep down, and that this was a way to "getting an education," we immediate-prove it, to myself and to others. ly think of lecture ~==============~ However, 1really 
halls. white-haired had no idea how I professors, 8 a.m. would react when
Mark 
exams and grades. thrust into an However. education alien land with is not only memoriz-people unlike any 
ing facts or arguing I'd ever had more
God•1 sh 
logical deductions. It is also experiencing what the world has to offer in order to be prepared when I next step foot outside of the Notre Dame bubble. 
This past summer I had the privilege of participating in a Summer Service 
than fleeting con­tact with. I had to see the welfare cases, the men 
and women who were starving because their benefits ran out, the children neglected because their moth­ers didn't have the knowledge or 

But, I stuck it out, and the education I received went far beyond any text­book or lecture. I learned firsthand how to live, not simply coexist, with my fellow human beings. I learned firsthand how to love, not simply toler­ate. those who appear different on the surface. I learned firsthand that every­one laughs and ldves and cries and hurts the same, regardless of race or age or socioeconomic status. 1 learned firsthand what it means to be a human being and got a glimpse of my poten­tial to go beyond the ordinary and expected. 
It is easy to focus on the next assign­ment, the next test or the next require­ment. It is difficult to focus on the responsibility we share with each 
other, the extraordinary 


glory and financial security. Haltingly, awkwardly. even blindly at times we -as individuals and as a collective -search for a way to find our place in a world that at times appears ·harsh and cold. We search for Project sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. It was a wild idea at first, heading off to somewhere I had never been to do things I had never done for people I would never see money or interest to raise a child. It 
would have been so much easier to just bow out. to feel abstract pity when I read the newspaper reports of pover­
ty. 

¦ DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
ITGIVC5MeGf?e,tf7' Pt.eA!3UR5 7l) tv8t• COMe MR. ROLANCJ 81.Jt<:TON H/3/lt&-Y, JR. 84CI<. TO l!/A/,,P/3N,., ------~  .HW/£'1,/,(/f-{'f W'T I NA/?/vf VUPNl7H SOfflJAL-1.­ Nt?f,.l,I,,, '17-IAT~A SOPTBAUr \  
l'1'  

For A More Just And Humane World is a bi-weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. The author's views do not necessarily reflect the views of the Center for Social Concerns or The 
¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'sometimes when I look 
at my children I say to 
myself, "Lillian, you should 
have stayed a virgin.'" 
-Lillian Carter 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, December 3, 1998 
------------------------page 9 
¦ So, WHAT'S MY POINT ¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
'Tis the Season to be Jolly ... and a Happy 
New Year 

1t is 110w time f'or Lim holiday sea-to compete with such academic pow-son of 1998, which marks the begin-crhouses as Harvard and Yale, who ning of' pm-packaged, gift-wrapped, continue to mold, educate and inform sanitized holiday cheer. frantic last-their students through the noble minute getting-a-Christmas-present-process of grade inflation. Moreover, 
for-your-===============~ if my suggestions
boyfriend's• arc adopted, then sistur's-cm,sin's-WP'II have
N k h 

11ancc shopping. a as a increased enroll-
crodit-curd max-ment. And that ing, und ... finals. means increased I haV(! always dollars. Just con-
Ahmad 

found it to he an sider it my pm-unnecessary -sent to the nay, downright administration superfluous -this year. complication of school and college Idea No. 1; Let's have finals we can lifo that we poor scholars are forcc>d really use. Finals measuring stuIT we to study, mad and comprehend tomes will need to know for the holiday sea-by Nictzsctrn. Steinbeck and .J.S. Mill son. Such as, how to get out of being sma<·k during tlrn precisc> timP we arc rop,id into spending the Day of the supposed Lo bti basking in holiday Turkey cooped in the kitchen with elmer, getting high on eggnog and five generations of gourmet cooks. Or buying outrageously expensive gifts a 11nal on how to great bargains for for ourselvrs that we can't afford and gifti; -the best location for this final will spPnd tlw rest of the year paying would be the Water Tower in off. Chicago. English classes should give 
To study or not to study? That is finals on Charles Dickens' classic thn question. Is it better to suffer the story "A Christmas Carol" -the slings and arrows of outrageous cal-movie, of course, not the book. Thus, culus problems? Or is it infinitely finals would become a time for us prnferable to shurlle off this to move beyond the mere acadnmic coil that binds us academic grind and pre­and instead head immedi-pare us for the gruel­ately lo tlrn innocuous-ing marathon shop­senming shopping pings and face-straitjacket that will stuffings ahead. bind us slill morn? Idea No. 2: We Forgive me. It's just do away the holiday sea-with them. son. I'm an Altogether. English major. Just get rid Friends don't of the trou­lct friends mad , blesome too much things. But. Shakespearn. some might 
Anyway, I object, how have been will we continually know if amazed at the you're chronic opti-learning misrn that anything? plagues -Simple, I yes. plagues say. We -our other-don't need wise excullent to be tested institutions or on the higlrnr lniun-knowledge. ing. Tlrny give Just the fact us live days off that we've so that WP. can go been through home for the course is Thanksgiving, eat enough. Why turkey and watch add unnecessary tlrn Hugrats 11oat in tension to the thr. Macy's family meal? Thanksgiving Day Besides, we might not parade. And then, just do well on the finals when we'vr, golten used to anyway. And then our being around parents and sib-collective self-esteem would lings and n~al home-cooked meals dip down into the negative degrees. and waking up late, we are rushed This would poison our vacation. back to school for 3 morn weeks. To The administration wouldn't want sludy for exams which make up 20-that, now would they? 50 p11rcont of mar somoster grados. Idea No. 3: We give one linal. 
Wlrnn Urn Founding Fathers put in Those who do well will pass. Those tlw injunction ,1gainst cruel and who do nol will be forced to spend unusual punishmnnt in the their entire winter vacation at school, Constilution. this is what they were practicing. The subject of this final? rnforring to. The art or whining. It might be the 
So for this holiday sNtson, I thought one final every coilege student could that I would suggest a few radical pass. new ideas for the administrnlion to implflmcnt !'or our academic cdifica­Nakasha Ahmad is a junior English lio11. If this plan is successful. then major at Saint Mary's. lier column wn might possibly ho the first school appears every other Thursday. in Uw counlry to set the new finals The vies expressed in lhis column trend. /\II of' these suggestions. of are those of the author and not nec­course. will vastly improve high<ir essarily lhose of The Observer. 11ducation as we knuw it, and will acadHmically and intt>lleclually improve us all. Wu will tinally be able 
Catholic View on Contraception Debatable 
After reading Mr. Kiehne's Jetter of Catholic view was discovered. it is still Tuesday. Dec. 1, I felt the need to not morally dispositive considering the respond. In his letter, Mr. Kiehne asserts religious diversity of our world. In intel­that "there is no need for the Women's lectual debates, one should think beyond Resource Center to distribute informa­the Catholic or even Christian bound­tion about abortion and contraception ... aries. Procuring abortions and using contra• Second, Mr. Kiehne has a valid point ceptives arc mortal sins." Although concerning the autonomy of Notre clearly knowledgeable about Catholic Dame. Our school is privatB and dogma. Mr.Kiehne still argues with con­Catholic and has tho right to govern its clusions and mistakenly associates abor­affairs according lo its beliefs. llowcver. tion with all contraceptives. His circular Mr. Kiehne goes beyond this and states reasoning, however, may be the sine qua "there is no 'need' for information about non of all religion. contraceptives and abortion on this or 
First, while some contraceptive devices any other university campus." This is do work like an abortion (i.e.• not allow­because "no one can ever 'need' some­ing a fertilized embryo to implant), this thing that destroys her soul." But the ignores othor contraceptives which do soul-destroying capability of abortion not. I suspect Mr. Kiehne's aversion and contraceptives are debatable mat­toward contraceptives goes beyond their ters. not fact. Such religion-based views possible abortive effects, but ho fails to should not be imposed on other universi­explain this. Instead, he simply states ties. the conclusion that "procuring abortions Finally, those who strongly believe in and using contraceptives are mortal their religious views should always sins." Thank you, Mr. Kiehne, for your remembBr that there are billions ol' peo­opinion. ple in this world who believe just as 
The expected response is that Mr. strongly in a different religious tradition. Kiehne is stating fact, not opinion. But How can we believe that our tradition is his argument is based on "the Catholic always the one and true conception of view of the nature of the person and the God? nature of sin." Differences of opinion exist within the Catholic Church as to Jim Schueller what constitutes the Catholic view. Mr. Notre Dari1e Law School '00 Kiehne offers his, and one should not James.R.Schucller.2@nd.edu accept his opinion as fact. But even if the December l, 1998 
Self-Proclaimed, Open­Minded People are Themselves Actually Close-Minded 
What's up with the issue of homosex­(sorry, the fact that a gay professor uals at Notre Dame? Are we obsessed? didn't feel comfortable applying here I don't hear much from the much­does NOT comprise discrimination); talked-about homophobes (although gays are free to meet off campus (a they are said to be legion -I'm sure horrendously arduous trek, I realize, they're out there. But I hear plenty that constitutes true oppression); any from the knee-jerk homophobia-phobes harassment of a student is a violation -the people who are afraid of being of local laws and University policies. labeled homophobic. People who will Your polemics evoking William do anything to reassure themselves, Wallace, MLK and the Berlin Wall ideally in a public venue. that they are made my spleen hurl ... until I realized indeed bastions of good, American. rel­you arc probably sincere. Going back ativistic tolerance. 'Tm OK. They're to McCarthy: Have you no sense of pro­OK. Blacklist you, if you think other­portion, ma'am? wise." Are we so desperate for a principled 
We are fanatical; we are obsessed; compass in this moral no-man's-land we are ugly. Let's don armbands and that we will cast the trivial as our gold­march to Potsdamer Platz and dispense en calf? with our sell'-righteous self-delusion. This is not an issue of oppression or Let us look in the mirror -into our justice -this is an issue of recognition own faces, not to spy on the one behind and acceptance. Tho University refuses us. We have stood McCarthyism on its to recognize groups that promote head (and it looks no better in that homosexuality; the Univursity refuses position). I have one credo among to extend any tacit acceptance of homo­many: distrust all positions and persons sexuality. The University believes this that hurl invective and 'criminalize' is how to best live out its Catholic mis­their detractors. I suppose I should be sion -to welcome homosexuals with­crucified just for saying that. Oops, out accepting or condoning homosexu• didn't mean to bring up something ality (they AREN'T necessarily tho implicitly religious on this campus. same). If you think that is wrong, then Don't worry, I meant it in a merely petition the University. But, by all analogical, sociological sfmse. means, gear down your polemics. Dare 
Thank you, Mr. Tefft, for adding a to experiment with perspective. dissenting voice. I'm afraid your well­Heason carefully, speak gently, rnspect reasoned objections fall on deaf ears. those who disagree with you, truly lis­
Ms. Paflhouse, I'm concerned by your ten and consider objections, proce<ld in polemics. I won't argue the issue with a comradely manner -these are tho you, but I will argue your argumenls. marks of a discussion at a true Gays are ''treated sub-humanely," arc University. "denied fundamental rights as human beings"? And you charge ihe student Michael Newhouse body with being sheltered and out-of­M.Div, Theology touch'!! Gays are not discriminated November 20, 1998 against in admissions or employment 

O
THE 

page 10 ---------------Thusday, December 3, 1998
BSERVER 

STU 
P TH 
QU/ZBOWL allows c 

By COURTENAY MYERS Scene Writer 
"Do you know the human head weighs eight pounds?" 
If so, you could be the next contestant in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Quiz Show. This event, organized by the Class of 2001, is open to all students and promises to be a worthwhile post-foot­ball, pre-finals diversion. 
The multi-tiered contest will officially kick-off on S Dec. 6. All students wishing to try out are invited to take the 50-question trivia test to qualify. There is a $3 testing fee. Tryouts will be held between 2 and 6 p.n. on Sunday in four locations --the Hesburgh Library Faculty Lounge, LaFortune's Montgomery Theatre, the basement of Walsh Hall and Reeker's Hospitality Room. 
After all scores are compiled, the top nine scorers will advance the semi-final round to be held on Tuesday, December 8. There a competition involv­ing general trivia will determine the three finalists who will compete for all the marbles on Thursday, December 10. 
Just wait, there's 
free  side  order  of  
cheesy bread.  
Each  dorm  with  at  

least 15 people partic­ipating in the try-outs will be considered in the dorm competition. The top 15 scores from each residence hall will be averaged and the winner will be rewarded with 30 free Marco's pizzas and the -right to call themselves "The Smartest Dorm." 
The idea for the trivia contest began as a brain­child of the Class of 2001 Fund Raising Chair Todd Callais. 
"The original idea was to sponsor something small and un-physically oriented for the sophomore class, maybe hand out a couple of prizes," said Callais. 
That idea was short-lived. 
The Class of 2001 approached the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore with their idea, hoping to get a few donated prizes. What they received, though. was complete and enthusiastic support. 
The Bookstore offered to sponsor the contest, donate prizes, provide money for advertising and even commit to continuing the contest as an annual campus-wide event--the fall semester's answer to Bookstore Basketball. 
"When the new Bookstore opens early next year, part of its decor will include plaques to record the winners of the individual trivia contest and the smartest dorm competition, for this year and those to come," said Callais. 
Joining the Bookstore in sponsoring the event are WSND 88. 9 Nocturne Nightflight and Marco's Pizza. Several area businesses have donated prizes includ­ing Colorado Steakhouse, Disc-Go-Round, Chili's, Wolfie's, TGI Friday's and Movies 14. 
All of this support by campus and local establish­men ts, the hard work of the Sophomore Class Council, and the results of the tryouts and semi-
trivia kno 
finals will culminate into one final round. 
Dec. 10 from 7 to 10 pm, the llesburgh Library Auditorium will house the first annual llammns Notre Dame Bookstore Quiz Show Final Hound. 
"This is not your typical trivia contest," said Callais. 
All are welcome to attend the final round, hostr.d bv Zahm Hall rector Father Jim Lies, C.S.C. Including trivia (of course), free refreshments and performances by Who's Yo Daddy, HA (The Humor Artists), The Undertones, the Juggling Club and First Class (a newly formed dance troop), the event promises to be a quality way to celebrate the end of the first official study day. 
Audience participation will be rewarded hand­somely with "Let's Make a Deal"-type bartering to win prizes ranging from free meals and movies to CDs and clothes. Auditorium doors will open at 
6:30 pm and admission is $2. 
The three students competing in the final will face a first round of questions of varied point values (a la Jeopardy) from 10 categories as pre-selected by their own preferences. 
"Each candidate will have an opportunity to rank 30 categories by preference and the 10 most popu­1a r will be used in 
more. competition," said The try-out tests will Callais.
'THE THREE STUDENTS COMPETING IN THE FlNAL
also produce a list of' The second round the top 100 scoring stu­WILL FACE A flRST ROUND OF QUF5TIONS OF could be a little more dents, who will be grueling as the contes­
VARIED POINT VALUF.S FROM TEN CATAGORIF.S. THE
rewarded with vouch­tants are given ques­ers for $3 off a large WINNER WILL RECEIVE FREE BOOKS NEXT SEMF.STER tions worth equal 
and amounts of points from
Marco's pizza a COURTF5YOFTHEBOOKSTORE." 
categories selected by TODD CALLAIS the Official Testing CLASS OF 2001 Committee. 
Callais and two other 
members make up this 
committee and they 
are the only three indi­
viduals who have access to any of the questions used in the contest. 
"The questions were provided by the Quiz Bowl team, so to maintain absolute fairness any members of the Quiz Bowl team from the pas,t two years or any roommates of the testing committee members are not permitted to tryout for the trivia contest," said Callais. 
No quiz show scandals here. 
At the conclusion of the second round, the contes­tant with the fewest points will be congratulated and awarded the third place prizes: $100 to be used for spring semester books and $30 to be used at Wolfie's. 
And then there will be two. 
The final round of the final round of the first annual quiz show promises to be a dramatic finish. The remaining contestants will answer the same 10 questions vying for the first place title and prizes: free spring semester books, a shelf stereo unit, 15 CDs from WSND, dinner for two at Colorado Steakhouse. and free Marco's pizza and cheesy bread. The second place winner will not go unre­warded, though, and will take home 50 percent off spring semester books. a $30 gift certificate for Disc-Go-Round and dinner for two at Chili's. 
Some will do it for the prizes, some will do it for the fame and some will even do it to avoid studying for finals. Sophomore Class Council and all of the generous sponsors for this contest have worked incredibly hard to make it a success. 

O
THE 
Thursday, December 3, 1998 BSERVER page 11 

ER! 
mpus to show its 

QUIZBOWL TRY-OUT INFO 
FIRST ROUND: 
What: 50 question test 
Who: all students 
When: Sunday, Dec. 6. anytime between 2 and 6 p.m. 
Where: Hesburgh Library Lounge, Lafortune Montgomery Theater. Walsh 
Hall Basement, Reeker's Hospitality Room 
Cost: $3 per person 
BRING ~ PEN & PAPER! 
* 
Top score in 1st round receives automatic bye to finals. 

* 
Top 9 scores go to semifinals Dec. 8. 

* 
Top 3 scores go to finals Dec. 10. 


PRIZES: 
* 
Grand Prize: Free spring semester of books, shelf stereo unit & 1 5 CDs, dinner for two at Colorado Steakhouse. free Marco's pizza and cheesy bread. 

* 
Second Place: 50 percent off spring semester books, $30 gift certificate to Disc-Go-Round, dinner for two at Chili's. 

* 
Third Place: $100 for bookstore resource materials, $30 of Wolfie's food 

* 
Top 100 scores: coupon for $3 off any large pizza and a free side order of cheesy bread. FromMarco's Pizza. 

* 
Smartest Dorm Award: dorm with highest average gets 30 pizzas -at least 1 5 participants from dorm. 


¦ 8,cene THROUGH OUR EYES 
KEEPING 
TRACK OF THE 
SMALL STUFF 
By KRISTI KLITSCH 
Scene Editor 

It's that time of year again. People running around in a dazed craze, students checking comp!eted items olT lists and the smell of winter permeating the cool, DHcembnr air. 
It might appear that I am referring to the hustle and bustle surrounding the Christmas holiday, but I am not. Hather, I am talking about the temporary insanity that consumes cam­pus during the weeks leading up to and including semester final exams. 
You all know what I am talking about. The a.ir is so thick with stross and anxiety that you could cut it with a knife. It suddenly seems as if all the work that you forgot to do during the <:ourse of the semester is finally coming due, in addition to the a11the 10 and 20-pagl~ unfinlshod papors. 
You don't understand it -why do all my teachers think that I have nothing else to do but work for their class? -you ask yourself. How is everything going to got done? For first year students, the ''oh my god, there's only one week until finals" syndrome is something never experienced before. 
But before you camp out in tho library or lock yoursolf In your room, I encourage you to take a new approach this finals season. Because of the time of the year that finals week falls in. many students lose sight of the world outside Notre Dame, and become immune to the real-world holiday cheer. Many forget that Christmas is right around the corner. This finals disillusionment also brings a loss of the childhood anxi­ety that surrounds the holiday. 
But this year don't let this happen. Take time for the small stuff. 
Everyone has a lot to do, but ff you don't take tinrn ror the small stuff, stress and anxiety will consume your life. Looking back at the past three years, I admit that I fell prey to the finals syndrome, and didn't always take full advantage or the small stuff. That is why I encourage all of you underclassmen to enjoy your time now, and never to be filled ~th regret. 
When I say taking time for the small stuff, I mean just that -the small stuff. The small stuff that you lived l'or as a child, and the small stuff that makes the holiday season so special. 
Last night my roommates and I decorated our Christmas tro1i and strung light.<; throughout our apartment. Wo all had things to do, but taking the Umti to celebrate the season together was more important to us. This is what I mean by the small stuff. 
Whether it be baking cookies, hanging decorations, or just talking, take time for the small stuff. Take a few hours one afternoon and volunteer at the Center for the Honrnless or another service organization, helping those less advantaged. I guarantee that you will get more out of this than you will spending the same time at the library. 
Ir it snows, go sledding. If it rains, cuddle up with a cup of bot cocoa and a good book. If the hockey or basketball teams are playing, go watch them. If your roommates are all home, eat dinner together. If you don't usually send Christmas cards, start a new tradition. If you have been wanting to start your Christmas shopping, go to the mall. If you haven't seen a friend in a while, give them a call. 
It doesn't matter what the "small stuff' is, as long as you do it. 
When you look back at your four college years, are you really going to remember that you got a 92 percent on a test instead of an 85 percent? That you studied 10 hours for a test instead of seven? I don't think so. 
What you will remember, however, if time spent laughing with friends and enjoying the holiday season. 
Christmas only comes once a year, and it doesn't stop and wait for anyone. If you don't take advantage of every aspect. it will simply pass you. by. Unfortunately, first semester finals come at a bad time, but you can't let that stop you. 
Pretend that you are five years old again, and I guarantee that you can rekindle that Christmas magic deep wlthin your spirit. 
Everyone's busy, but don't forget to enjoy the small stufT. 
The lliews expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Ohserzier. 

page 12 The Observer• SPORTS ' Thursday, December 3, 1998 
¦ NHL 
Rangers win war of New York 
Associated P rcss 
UNIONDALE, N.Y. 

Mike Rir.hler stopped 25 shots as the New York Rangers beat the New York Islanders 3-2 Wednesday night for their third straight victory. 
Mike Knuble, Petr Nedved and Wayne Gretzky scored for the Rangers, who snapped a three-game losing streak at Nassau Col.iseum since a 5-2 victory on Feb. 8, 1997. 
The Rangers have beaten the }slanders three straight games overall. The Rangers are currently on a 4-1-2 streak, and have held opponents to one or two goals in five of those seven games. 
Robert Reichel had both guals for the Islanders, who have lost three straight games and six of their last eight. 
Tommy Salo stopped 14 shots. 

The Islanders took a 1-0 lead 5:59 into the game on Reichel's power-play goal, a slap shot from the right point. 
• 
The puck hit Rangers defenseman Peter Popovic and bounced past Richter. 
The Rangers tied the game at 14:30 when Knuble skated past two defensemen and faked Salo down with a forehand move before putting a backhander into the open net. 
Ned\·ed put the Rangers up 2-1 at 2:24 of the second period when he beat Salo high over his glove with a wrist shot from the top of' the right circle. 
Salo made the save of the game later on while the Islanders were killing the second half of a double minor to defenseman David Harlock. 
Salo dove across his crease and made a backhand mid-air glove save off a quick shot from John MacLean at 11 :22. 
Gretzky, who hadn't scored on Salo in the previous nine games they faced each other. gave the Rangers a 3-1 lead with a back­hander from the left side, at 4:10 of the third period. 
The streak was the longest Gretzky had been blanked by any goalie in the league. Reichel scored a power-play goal with 4.1 seconds left. 
Sabres 2, Panthers 1 

Dixon Ward scored his team-leading 10th goal and Dominik Hasek continued his mas­tery at home with 27 saves as the Buffalo Sabres defeated the Florida Panthers 2-1 on Wednesday night. 

Ward, who leads the NHL in shooting per­centage, scored the game-winner at 12:01 of the second period on a rebound of his own shot to beat Florida goaltender Kirk McLean. 
The Panthers appeared deflated, coming off Tuesday night's heartbrMking 5-4 over­time loss to the Rangers in which Brian Leetch scored the tying goal with one sec­ond left in regulation and Adam Graves won it in overtime. 
After a scoreless first period, Wayne Primeau scored for Buffalo two minutes into the second on a one-timer from Alexei Zhitnik that got past Mr.Lean. 
It was Primeau's second goal of the sea­son. McLean finished with 26 saves. 
The Panthers tied it three minutes later when Ray Whitney bar.khanded the rebound of a shot by Kirk Muller over Dominik Hasek for his seventh of the season. 
Hasek has started the last 39 home games for the Sabres and has a 23-8-8 record and a 1.56 goals-against average. He also has seven shutouts in thaL span. 
Buffalo (11-5-4) is off to its best start in nine years,. when the Sabres began the sea­son 12-4-:~. 
The Sabres are unbeaten in their last seven home games. 
Hurricanes 4, Canadiens 1 
Ray Sheppard and Keith Primeau scored 5 l/2 minutes apart and the Carolina Hurricanes won their fourth straight by defeating the slumping Montreal Canadiens 4-1 Wednesday night. 
Sheppard's game-winner came with 4:19 left in the second period, while Primeau scored his team-leading 12th goal 1 :09 into the third period just seconds after Carolina goaltender Trevor Kidd had made several key saves. 
The Southeast Division-leading 
Hurricanes have now outscored opponents 
13-3 during their season-high winning 
streak with Kidd in goal for three of the 
wins. 

Carolina won the game without third­leading scorer Gary Roberts, who sat out with a wrist injury, and top defenseman Steve Chiasson, who reinjured his back early in the second period. 
Montreal, in last place in the Northeast 
Division, lost its fifth straight road game 
and fell to 0-9-2 when opponents score first. 
,,se 

~pla~~X9ent will Yi:, > ,·. ,· .. ·· ,·
a.lso a 91!:ndidate f Bowden: He was ife~:~n. ... ... .. , , ed.'h.n~ !Jf the,,t&p

as$if!~t$ in the·nation by,Sports Illustr;i.te~. , . <,. ·.. ,· .....,.... 
· · Rod#gtie,;r. al$o planned to i.tlte~vi,,',111 with Middle.Telltlessee Stat~;,o,n ~~;urs~ay a,p.dJJ./1d .te.n­ta.tivflly: scheduled a meeting with So.1,1th-Western Louisiana tor later ·· in,th~ }'VQek1 llowden also. offerod him th() o(fE,nSive. cqordinator,a$s\~t~µt'hea~ t(f~,ch.,joh at 
< •... -..... , d Cl!'!m$pn~ Ilodriguez said. epo;rters .. ·.·., ..()fthefQur.rd prefer to stay _._ii~d ~rt{y ' il.s1'1.1lage'$ coach/' R9ddguez·
·;t}l.(.liIN:Mr. sald, i'l'Vf3 kind of ·set next ·· Jefvi('Jit t. .W·•· ... d .. as_ ffiY_._·_de1,td_l_1_·11e to
__ . e_-..:_'fl_:_e_._.s_..da_Y·.

lito a · decH:le; ,That's when we begin ~. i.··•·•·. < Is.. i .PrMW.:ingfor ~he bo-Wlga~e.''
VII fit ca!l ~ttppe~ . . 'l)J,l!].'titflS to play :iryu i:n th,6 
e~ight,t<> here. l ·· ·· Liberty BowL Rodriguez• said he ng?d.]9bs.>J ao~<ietijoke<l, Wanted to coach that game, but if e i$ ~,cpected to h,old a news he became a·head coach else­
\ ...... feten at Clemson .on where.thatmight not be possi­'t'hu.i:s ble. . · ·Bow n Fforida State 13owdenjust completed his sec­.• C~Jch, •· .. ·.....•... •.·.. •.· o~den, said a het0 ond season at Tulane. ' t~rstiot11;t a.nMlonal.champi-His.tirstteam went 7-4, snap-
on,stup w,s ~JactorJn his .son's ping· a stri:ng of 15non-winning .dr.ci$ioii; .. MN ••• < ... ,·.. . . . seasons. This year Tulape was , ,,!You,l<;µo%:;~t.aschool like 11-0.won the -Conference·usA 
q~msmior Florida ,Sµ).te, ~n ACC title, and moved steadily. up in stbool Qt (\ll Sl!y $Cb<>.l,you the rankings. . . ·have a.chance ,orwinuing a Bowden was in the first year of nationalcb.a~pi,On$hip,tt the a five•year deal a,t. Tulane. eJder 13,0}'Vden, ~a19. "Uecau,seor Clemso.ll reportedly has offered tl).e scp.,.<i,Ile an.d ot~er<things at to pay half of the $750,000 huy­Thlane~J;hat's riot as possihle. out. 
"Besi~,s, liow could .he Clemson is rl:lportedly offering
il.liproye '{11,Whathe'd done this Bowden a yearly package of ar't Hehad>nowhere to _go $750,000 to $800,000. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day fro?' 8 a._m. to 3 p.m. at c~e Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds 1s 3p.m. All classifieds muse be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Beautiful brass bed.queen Anthony Travel.Inc. me wanna Love Always,NOTICES 11 LOST & FOUND I size.with orthopedic mattress set Lafortune Student Center USHER HELP WANTED: Parisi's and deluxe frame.New.never 631·7080
L----------~ 
Thank you! ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY WANTED CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243·0658. 
Restaurant call 232-4244 ASAP used.still in ptastic.$225 Someday, somehow, as God as THE COPY SHOP 219-862-2082 --------my witness, our room will be spic Lafortune Student Center LOST: A SMC '98 class ring, FOR RENT Looking for a unique gift? and span. We're Open A Lot'!! engraved Megan E. Driscoll. Smith Corona Mon-Thur: 7:30 am· Midnight REWARD! Please call 273·9155. Word Processor Bring in 12 of your favorite pie· we share ... EVERYTHING. Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Like New lures and we'll create a custom Sat: Noon -6:00 pm $100080 color calendar. CM • sorry you're not here typing Sun: Noon · Midnight x1554 these fun, exotic classifieds. When you need copies, THE COPY SHOP we're open! BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­LaFortune Student Center Meredith . thanks for the ride 
SPRING BREAK '99! ISTRY-rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291· For Sate: back, chica and for understanding 
Early Spring Break Cancun•Nass,iu• Jamaica·Mazatl 7153. Digitech RP-20 Floor Effects my fascination with ZIMATICS!!!! Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 an·Acapulco'Bahamas Processor/Preamp Days ~279!1ncludes most meals! Cruise•Ftorida'South Padre 1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. Only 1 year old, ex. condition. Chris, what up, ali? a.w. is THE home Awesome Travel Free and make lots of NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­List: $799.99, asking $450.00 or I'll see you at Morrissey's SYR. girl in Le Mans! Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Cash!Top reps are offered full-time TIES.272-6551 b/o. Call 287·9910, ask for Can't wait!! Florida!Cancun & Jamaica staff jobs.Lowest price Brendan Love, dance or party? dance or party? Air,Hotel,Meals &Parties Guaranteed.Call now for details! House for rent, 105 Marquette, Lucki hmmm ..... PARTY! $339!Panama City Room With www.classtravel.com 5 bedrooms, available now and PERSONAL Kitchen, 7 Free Parties 800/838-6411 tor next fall, 232-6964 Full Color Desktop Publishing This one's for BR: $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen FAX IT FAST!!! Services are now available at Crazy Cinderellas spin their $149!springbreaktravel.com •ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST Room tor Rent in Turtle Creek Sending & Receiving The Copy Shop in Lafortune. spaghetti hair into tightly wrapped 
1-800-678-6386 SPRING BREAK PRICES TO apartments.Call 273-2435 at Design, Scanning, Printing and eggrolls, hoping a chef will snatch SOUTH PADRE (FREE THE COPY SHOP Copying in COLOR! the dreams of polka-dot lizards. 
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­Roommates Needed Lafortune Student Center Early & Receive a Free Meal WEST,PANAMA CITY.REPS ND Apts Call X4415 Our Fax# (219) 631•FAX1 what rule should we break next? Plan! !!Cancun & Jamaica NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE.EARN FAX IT FAST!!! •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, $399,Bahamas $459,Panama City CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR FOR SALE BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING HI family at home reading this. $99 6+. "Don't Get Burned on Spring STUDENTS '* Original student That means: mom, kelly, katie, 
1-800-234-no1 WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM Break" group will hold general meeting mickey, danny. 
endlesssummertours.com 800-838-8203. PREPAID PHONE CARDS Spring Break Packages are TONIGHT. Call info line for details 198 MIN. $20 going fast.Check out our Hot 236·9661. pq ·­CALL 258-4805 Jamaica Packages for the Class of Is your present smelling bad yet? 
ATTENTION JUNIORS!!! CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT-•991 Stop m at Anthony Travel in the Is there some kind of stress hot­
By now, all letters of invitation Workers earn up to FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDSf Lafortune Student Center and line I can call? Yes, it's called mark sarnuel h1ggins­have been sent for JPW. If your $2000+/month {w/tips & 8cd box set not available in check out the best Spring Break pranking people, telling them you've you owe me! and you are an family has not received their invita­benefits).World Travel!Land-Tour U.S. call pete at 251-0178. vacations around.Get your deposit seen them cheating on tests. It's egg. 
tion, stop by the JPW Office in 206 jobs up to $5000-in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a such a stress reliever! Lafortune to pick up an application $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517-MAC Powerbook145 $400080 chance with an unknown agency or HEAR WONDERFUL MUSIC @ to receive an invitation. 336-4235 x2116 some 1-800 number.Limited space Gina -just wanted to say THANK 9 p,m, @ Acoustic Cafe!I!!!! Ext.C55841 available.so book now! YOU for everything and you make If you miss it you're a fool! 
Thursday, December 3, 1998 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Calendar of Events 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
NDE #53 Retreat 
Friday~Sunday, December 4-6, Fatima 
RCIA-Rite of Welcome 
Sunday, December 6, 11:45 a.m., Basilica of the Sacred H~art 
Rejoice! Black Catholic .Mass 
Sunday, December 6, 4:00 p.m., Sorin Hall Chapel 
ND Handbell Choir Concert­Holiday Music Concert 
Wednesday, December 9, 12:45 pm-1:15 pm, Main Lounge of Lafortune 
Advent Penance Service 
Wednesday, December 9, 10:00 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Posada-Traditional Christmas 
Procession 
Wednesday, December 9, 8:00 pm-10:00 pm 
Second Sunday of Advent 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, December 5 Mass 
5:00 p.m. 
Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Sunday, December 6 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. 
Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming 
Sunday 
1st Reading Isaiah 11:1-10 2nd Reading Romans 15:4-9 Gospel Matthew 3:1-12 
What Are You Waiting For? 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
There is no time in one's young life when one more longs for Christmas, for family and for home, than as a college student just before final exams. It is a remarkable thing. With all that stands between now and the end of the semester, one cannot help but look to the other side, and long for it. Not since childhood when one waits for Santa, and to open gifts on Christmas Eve, has the anticipation for anything been so real; and never again will the longing be as palpable for the coming of Christmas as it is in these days. And yet, what are we waiting for? 
That waiting which you do in these days before Christmas, heightened as it is by the seemingly secular circumstances of this acade­mic milieu, only proves to highlight the waiting which we do as a Church during these days of Advent. As a community of people who call ourselve's Christians, we wait. We wait and we long for the birth of Jesus. We wait and we make ready for the coming of Jesus into our hearts and into our homes. 
In both cases, we long for the other side of Advent. In both cases, we long for Christmas. But these are very different waitings, very dif­ferent longings. What we need to do is translate our longing, our burn­ing desire for the other side of term papers and final exams into a burn­ing desire for the Lord Jesus. Our palpable longing must surely be for something more than just a break from the academic rigors of college life. The peace that we seek on the other side of finals, if it is truly to sustain us, must surely be something more than a respite from our pre­sent circumstances, because there will always be "present circum­stances." There will always be something that we long to get just beyond; something that somehow gives us permission to wish away our days for a better time. The ultimate truth, however, and that to which Advent points, is that the only peace we will ever find beyond our pre­sent circumstances, and even in them, please God, is found in the Lord Jesus. 
The great irony iff it all is that if we do manage to translate our longing for the one into a longing for the other, we will find the peace now that we assume that we have to wait for until then. Advent is-a time to wait, yes; but for what? For the Lord who is already among us? We make ready during this time not only for the coming of Jesus at Christmas, but also at every moment of our lives, at every moment that Jesus would be the peace that we seek if we were only to welcome him in. Thus the question: what are you waiting for? 
There are all kinds of ways to welcome him. They are different for each of us. For some, it means readying ourselves through more fre­quent participation in the sacraments of the Church, such as confession and daily Eucharist. For others, it means spending more time in prayer, either alone or with others. For still others, it means being attentive to those among us who are in particular need, because to welcome the least of these is to welcome Jesus. Finally, for some, it means giving generously to the relief funds in support of the people of Central America whose lives and homes have been ravaged by Hurricane Mitch. [As many of you know, all of the collections of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and of many residence hall chapels during the season of Advent will go to support Catholic Relief Services in Central America and a pro­gram called Farm of the Child to which many Notre Dame students have given a year or two of service since its founding in Honduras sev­eral years ago.] I will not presume to say what you must do, but you must do something. There is too much at stake for each of us not to. 
You all know the story of Jesus, and of how there was no room in the Inn. The question for each of us is: Is there room enough in us? Will we, as the innkeeper did, turn away the one who seeks to be born in us? Will we, in these days of final exams, turn away the very one who can save us, especially right now when we are most in need of being saved? Let your longing in these days be for the Lord; let your hope rest in the one who saves. Only Jesus can give us what we truly seek on the other side of Advent; only he can give us what we truly need right now. 
So what are you waiting for? Let it be Jesus, and let it be now. 
I¦
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, December 3, 1998 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Catcher Hernandez 
Clemens available for trading 
Associated Press 
lands new contract 
NEW YORK 

Available: The only five-time Cy Young Award winner. Price: Negotiable. Roger Clemens. angered the 
Toronto Blue Jays won't spend enough money to field a con­tender next season, told the team Wednesday he wants to be traded, and the club said it will comply. 
"This is certainly not done with any acrimony or with any anger on either side," Blue Jays general manager Gord Ash said, adding the team will make every effort to complete a deal within 10 days. 
When Clemens signed with the Blue Jays in Uecember 1996, team president Paul Beeston said if Clemens didn't think Toronto would contend and asked for a trade, the Blue Jays would deal him. Beeston left tl1e Blue Jays during the 1997 sea­son to become baseball's chief operating officer. but Ash said he will honor Beeston's commit­ment. 
"It's a two-prong situation," Ash said. "There's a desire to be closer to home or with a club that has a better chance to pro­vide him with a World Series ring." 
The World Series champion New York Yankees, Houston Astros and Texas Rangers are considered the top contenders to land the 36-year-old right-han­der. 
"Who wouldn't have an inter­est in Clemens?" Yankees gen­eral manager Brian Cashman said. 
"I'm sure Toronto will have many discussions with us before this is over with." 
Ash visited Clemens at his home in Katy, Texas, outside Houston last week along with the Blue Jays' two assistant gen­eral managers, Dave Stewart and Tim McCleary. 
The team's owner, the Belgian company Interbrew SA, does not want to spend as much money on players as the Yankees, Baltimore or Boston. 
Clemens became discouraged when the Blue Jays did not make a competitive offer to retain Jose Canseco, who hit 46 homers and drove in 107 runs this year. 
Toronto was 88-74 last sea­son, finishing four games behind Boston in the wild-card race. 
The Blue Jays' biggest needs include a power-hitting outfield­er, a third baseman and, like most clubs, a top starting pitch­er. 
Randy Hendricks, who repre­sents Clemens, telephoned Ash on Wednesday to make the 
SPRING BREAK'99 

HOURS & HOURS OF f'REE UHINKS! Earn 2 FimE Trips & $$$$$! c~ncun,Jamak:i, tlorida, narbado-. ll,1hama, to\\r11 Priers/ lh'\I Meal l'lan I-S00..126-7710 I""•MUn\pb,hlour.i,com 

A.soLiated Press 

CHICAGO Free agent left fielder Henry KAT Rodriguez returned to the 
Cy Young Award winner Roger Clemens told the Blue Jays 
Chicago Cubs on Wednesday,
Wednesday that he wants to be tradedto a team that is a contender. 
agreeing to an $8.9 million, two­
"As You Wish" 
~ I m p 0 r f s 

Sweaters, Tapestries,Jewelry, Accessories Great Selection of Hemp jewelry & much morel Guatemala • Bali • Thailand • Mexico • Ecuador• Brazil • India 
• 
HUGE CLEARANCE SALE!! 
Free gift with everv purchase!! 
<Offer volli ••• time oolp 
Unbelievable Bargain Corner! 
•Proceeds from this corner help send 4 Guatemalan children 

·• to school. ~ 
Other donations Greatly Appreciated 
t\t 
. • Lafortune· Room 108, Nov. :30-Dec. 4 10-5pm " 
Associated Press 

SAN DIEGO 
Slowly reassembling the team that made it to the World Series, the San Diego Padres on Wednesday gave free agent catcher Carlos Hernandez a $6.5 million, three-year con­tract. 
Remaining on the market, however, are ace Kevin Brown -targeted as the Padres' top offseason priority -and cen­ter fielder Steve Finlev. 
In the last three seasons, the Padres have had Brian Johnson, Rrad Ausmus, John Flaherty and Hernandez behind the plate. Last season was Hernandez's first as a starter after spending one year as a backup here and seven years as a backup with the Dodgers. 
Towers and Hernandez's 
Rodriguez signs $8.9 million deal with Cubs 
The team said it is willing to comply. 
demand. 
"There's a tendency to look at the bottom line, that you have only $40 million or $43 million and say you have no chance," Ash said, referring to his payroll range. 
"I think you have to look a lit­tle deeper. You don't need to be at $60 million to compete." 
Clemens, who won his first three Cy Youngs with Boston in 1986, 198 7 and 1991, went 20-6 with a 2.65 ERA, striking out 271 in 234 2-3 innings last sea­son. 
He went unbeaten in his final 22 starts, winning 15 decisions after starting 5-6. 
He led the AL in ERA and 
BOOK SEARCH 
• Used, rare and out-of-print,, 
, books . I W• Initial cost of $2..00 
J 
;i • 
Nationally• circulated ad ;j 
• 
Success rate of 50% ~·1 

• 
Time Required: 2 months ~ 


ERASMUS BOOKS i 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

year contract. strikeouts and tied for the lead Rodriguez, acquired by the in wins after finishing first in all Cubs from Montreal in three categories in 1997. December 1997 for pitcher 
Ash said the Blue Jays wanted Miguel Batista, hit .251 last sea­to work out a deal quickly. son with 31 homers and 85 "I think it's important not to RBIs. let this drag out," he said. During the last three seasons, 
Ash also said Toronto was Rodriguez has 93 homers, 91 looking to acquire players to doubles and 271 RBIs. help now, not prospects. The 31-year-old outfielder has 
But he isn't limiting the posi­a .253 career average during tions he wants help at. seven years in the major leagues with 114 homers and 372 RBIs. 
agent, Elliott Vallin, said they hope re-signing Hernandez has some effect on the Padres' pur­suit of Brown. 
Vallin said Hernandez planned to call Brown from his home in Venezuela. Neither Brown nor his agent, Scott Roras. could be reached for comment. 
One guy who definitely won't be back is third baseman Ken Caminiti, who turned down San Diego's token offer and signed with the Houston Astros. 
Towers spoke Tuesday night with Finley's agent. Tommy Tanzer. and said the two sides remain apart, more su in money than in years. 
Neither side would confirm it, but baseball insiders say finley is seeking a multiyear deal paying $6 million per sea­son. 
Rodriguez, who made $2.7 million last season, gets a $200,000 signing bonus, $3.6 million next year and $4.5 mil­lion in 2000. Chicago has a $5.2 million option for 2001 with a $600,000 buyout. If the option is exercised, the contract would be worth $13.5 million over three years. 
Chicago also signed right-han­der Scott Sanders, released by San Diego on Nov. 17. 
Sanders, 29, pitched in 23 games for the NL champions, going 3-1 with 26 strikeouts, five walks and a 4.11 ERA in 30 2-3 innings. 
Sanders, acquired by the Padres from Detroit in May, has a 30-38 career record. 
Apply for Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred. 

Thursday, December 3, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Frosh Barkley scores big in St. John's win over Hofstra 
Associated Ptess 
NEW YORK 

Freshman Erick Barkley scorncl a snason-high 25 points, including fivo 3-pointers, as No. 
2:i St. .John's beat llolstrn 70-49 Monday night 
Ron Artest added 15 points for the Red Storm (5-2) who arc off to their best start since opening tho 1994-95 season 7-0. 
St. John's, which has never Jost to Ilo[-,tra (2-4) in 18 meet­

ings, has won 14 straight at home. 
Norman Richardson led Hofstra with 16 points. Craig Claxton added 10 for the Flying Dutchmen, who trailed 40-35 at halftime. 
fjj,~~~-~~;s;;;;.-;;,;;;;;;;;,,;;;;;;;;-~-~-a;;;;;;;;;;;~;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;:;;;;;;;;;;,;;;;;:::;;;;;;;;s;;:::;;;;;;=;;;;;;;;:;;~ 
Summer Research Grants for Vndergraduate and Graduate Students 
Six grants are awarded each year for up to $3,000 by the Nanovic .Institute for European Studies 
For more information, come to a meeting this Friday, December 4th at 12:30 p.m. in the Library Lounge or contact Professor Robert Wegs. 1-5253 (419 Flanner Hall) 
.-------------------------------------, 
The 1998 Sheedy Award: Posthumously Awarded to Dr. Erskine Peters, Prof. of English 
March 16, 1948-March 9, 1998 
In his honor, Dr. Nellie McKay, Prof. of 
English and Afro-American Studies at 
the University of Wisconsin, will deliver 
an address entitled: 
"From Phillis Wheatly to Walter 

Mosely and Essex Hemphill: Teaching 
African American Literature in the 
Multicultural Curriculum 

3:00 Friday, December 4 
Hes burgh Auditorium: Reception to foilow. All students and faculty are welcome to attend. 
Barkley hit three consecutive 3-pointers as St. John's jumped out to a 10-0 lead. lie finished 9­for-14 from the field, including 5-for-8 from 3-point range, and also had seven assists. 
Tyrone Grant grabbed 11 rebounds for St. John's. 
Claxton had a pair of 3-point baskets, and Duane Posey and Roberto Gittens each hit two jumpers as the flying Dutchman answered with an 18-5 run to go ahead 18-15. 
After three lead changes, Claxton hit a jumper to tie the game at 23 with 3:12 remaining in the half. St. .John's them went on a 7-2 run to close out the first half with a 30-25 lead. 
Lavor Postell hit a jumper and Barkley added two more baskets as the Red Storm went on a 15-3 run in the opening 6:59 of the second half to gain a 45-28 advantage. 
Hofstra pulled to 48-:35 on a jumper by Richardson. But the Rnd Storm wnnt on a 12-0 run, including the last eight points by Barkley, to put the game out of reach at 60-35. 
Xavier 64, 
Mimi of Ohio 56 
Gary Lumpkin hit a clutch 3­pointer and James Posey clamped down on Wally Szczerbiak in the second half as No. 23 Xavier beat 22nd-ranked Miami of Ohio 64-56 Wednesday night. 
Xavier (5-2) overcame a 10­point deficit in the second half' with a balanced attack and gritty defense against Szczerbiak, who scored 24 points but missed two of three shol<; and was called for an intentional foul as Miami (4­
1) faded in the final three min­utes. 
Posey, who guarded Szczerbiak in a matchup of' two of the nation's premier players, hit a pair of free throws that put Xavier ahead 56-53 with 3:26 left. Lumpkin then hit a 3-point­er from the top of the key that 
helped the Musketeers pull away. 
There were three ties and seven lead changes in the second half before Miami went cold at 
Holiday Shopping For AGolfer On Your List? 
'99 Preferred Player's Guide To 
Indiana Golf 
The complete list of golf courses and 
FREE & DISCOUNTED GOLF 
from across Indiana. 


the end and missed seven of its final eight shots against Xavier's half-court pressure. 
Posey, Lloyd Price and Lumpkin scored 13 points apiece for Xavier. 
Miami showed it was more than a one-man team when Szczerbiak drnw his second foul and went to the bench with 8:23 left in the first half' and Xavier leading 18-17. 
Damon Frierson took over and hit four baskets in a 13-5 spurt that closed the half and left the Redllawks up :-W-23. 
Szczerbiak, who averaged :18 minutns per game last season and was playing 36 per game this season, remained on the bench for the entire 8:2:1. 
Szczerbiak returned at thn start of' the second half and hit a 3-pointer that pushed it t.o :n­23. 
Xavier rallind by taking tho ball right at Szczerbiak, rnpcat­cdly scoring over him as he avoided another foul. Posey hit a pair of basknts inside -one over Szczerbiak -in a 12-2 spurt that put Xavier ahead 43­41 midway through tlrn second half. 
Szczerbiak went more than l 0 minutes without a basket, miss­ing both of his shots, during Xavier's comeback. 
Miami's Jason GrunkemeyAr, a backup guard, was helped off the court aftAr flipping and bumping the back of his head in the second half. 
Rhode Island 70, Utah 6:3 

Add Utah to the list of teams that can't find an answer to Lamar Odom. Or Antonio Reynolds-Dean. 
Reynolds-Dean scored 22 points and Odom added 15 as Rhode Island upset No. 21 Utah 70-63 Wednesday night in the Great Eight. Preston Murphy, who brielly left the game limp­ing, came back to hit two huge 3-pointers as the Hams (4-3) pulled away late in the second half. 
Andre Miller tind a earner high with 28 points for the Utos (3-:1), but only one other Utah playm·, Hanno Mottola, scored in double 
figures. 
It was the Hams' first victo­ry outsidn Hhode Island this season, and their second over a Top 25 team. When the buzzer sounded, Odom pumped his fist and screamed as he ran past the Utah brmch. 
Utah led by one point at halftime, and Miller and Mottola combined for eight points in the first two min­utes of the second half'. 
But Odom answernd with back-to-back jumpers to cut the lead to 46-45, and Reynolds-Dean's layup with 
12:33 left gave the Hams their lirst lead since early in the first half. 
BRAII IACLI FA.t.\ILl" · BILLIARD/ 
~,1{2 price ($I.SO/hr.) on-fri. 
...{ftUIP/ iN,4,/e ~) 
.eitt 8. 9. Jo. & 12 feet) 
1202 S. Lafayette (go west on Eddy and go South on Lafayette) ph. 233-2323 

page 16 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, December 3, 1998 

It's time to strike out on 
your own, start your career. 
You want to hit the big 
time. That's where we come in. We're the biggest name in professional setvices and that means we have more opportunities and resources to help you get where you want to go. 


To learn more about career opportunities at the world's premier professional services organization, join us for our: 
INTERN CASINO NIGHT 
Wednesday, December 9, 5:00 -7:00 pm Center for Continuing Education, Lower Level 
Casual Dress 
Students interested in undergraduate and M.S. in Accountancy internships are welcome. 
www.pwcglobal.com 
PricewaterhouseCoopers is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. 
© 1998 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Priccwaterhou~eCoo~rs refers to the U.S. wganization of Pricewatcrl10useCoopers LLP and other members of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. 
.. 
swimming at a much higher level, so it should be exciting to

Swilll B-Ball 
see if we can swim at their level 

continued from page 20 
East Championships and NCAA Championships in March. 
"Wn'rn probably not ready to snn bost times from upperclass­nwn. but we probably will for tho ynunger swimmtlrs," Wnallrnrs said. 
Performance against Michigan is important, accord­ing to Weathers, as this will bn tho first of three mootings between the tmuns this season. The Irish will swim against the Wolverines in January at Lim Hainbow Invitational in llonolulu, and again in the last dual nrnet hnl'orn Big East ('.hampionships. 
"Thny !Michigan) havn some swimnwrs wlw arti rPally going to push_us, but the team is for the lirst time. We shrmld be able to do that," said Suddarth. 
A strong diving corps expects to make significant contribu­tions to the women's team score. Heather Mattingly is a favorite to win both the one­meter and three-meter spring­board events. 
BoLh Urn 400 individual med­ley and the 100 breaststroke 
l'eature  four  Notre  Dame  
women  ranked  among  the  
m1rnt's  top  10  swimmers.  

Allison Nowel and Liz Barger begin the weekcmd ranked first and second in tho 200 butterfly, whilo Kelly llecking is the favoritn to win both backstroke events. Also look for sprinter sensation Carrie Nixon to out­touch competition for wins in tho 50 and 100-yard freestyles. 

continued from page 20 
early," said McMillen, who had 14 second-half points. 
Notre Dame did just that. Niele Ivey scored eight of her 10 points in second half and the Irish took a 25-point lead with seven minutes remaining in the contest. before cruising to a 82­64 win. 
The victory marks the best start in the school's history (6-0) and ups their win streak to fif­teen straight at the Joyce Center. 
"We made a really good run at the end of the first half to cut it to four," Ehlen said. "We put ourselves in a position to make it a game, but McMillen opened it up with a couple threes at the beginning of the half and we got out of' our zone a little bit." 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Niele Ivey scored eight of her 10 points in the second half, helping the Irish take a 25-point lead. 
¦ WOMEN'S COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
VanGorp, Gingrich lead Duke to victory 
End  of  the  semester  Class  
dinner  at  
BW3's  
 
All  you  can  eat  Wings  for  $2/per  
person  
Wednesday,  December  9  
5:30-7  pm  

University ofNotre Dame: 

lvices ofFaith 
Gospel Choir 
Presents: 

Associaied Press 
DURHAM, N.C. 
Michele VanGorp and Krista Gingrich each scored 22 points as No. 16 Duke beat Florida State 91-72 Wednesday night. 
Nicole Erickson added 1 5 points for the Blue Devils (5-3) in the Atlantic Coast Conference opener for both teams. 
Latavia Coleman scored 18 points for Florida State (2-3). Jen Robinson had added 15 for the Seminoles. 
Fifty-two fouls were called in the game and three Florida State players fouled out, including Coleman. 
VanGorp and Gingrich each scored 12 points in the first half for Duke, which built a big lead before Florida State rallied. Coleman scored all but two points during a 13-0 run that got the Seminoles within striking dis­tance. 

BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER 'ABROAD' 
Slots still available for SPRING 2000 Open to all majors Interested students should pick up an application or call: 152A FITZPATRICK HALL, Xl-8376 or check this website http://www.bio2.edu 
Duke scored on 10 of its lirst 11 possessions of the second half, while Florida State missed 10 of' its first 12 shots after the break and foll b1ihind 61-36. 
No.25 Clemson 88, 
No.17 N.C. State 67 

ltoro Umoh had 27 points and 10 assists and No. 25 Clemson jumped out to a 20-point halftime lead Wednesday en route to an 88-67 win over 17th-ranked North Carolina State. 
Clemson (6-0, 1-0 Atlantic Coast Conference) got 30 first­half points from Umoh and Natasha Anderson, who finished with 20. The Wolfpack (3-3, 0-1) fell behind by as many as 32 points in the second half. 
The Tigers, who outrebounded North Carolina State 43-36, hit 27-of-34 from the foul line. 
Umoh, who shot 9-of-10 on free throws and 2-of-3 from 3­point range, recorded her first double-double of the season. Anderson shot 8-of-14 from the field, and Nikki Blassingame pulled in eight rebounds. 
Summer Erb paced North Carolina State with 17 poinlc, and nine rebounds. Tynesha Lewis also scornd 17 nnd went 3-of-4 from 3-point rangn. 
It was tho Tigers' largest mar­gin of victory over the Wo/fpack since the 1990-91 season, when Clemson won ?a-40. 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, December 3, 1998 
¦ SMC BASKETBALL 
Flying Dutch decimate Belles in conference play 
By MOLLY McVOY starter Jamie Stouffer. "When Sports Writer you're up against a team like Hope. that's not a good combina­
Hope College has been domi­tion." nant in the MIAA in recent years The Belles' inexperience was and they defended that reputa­especially evident against an tion on Monday, defeating Saint experienced opponent like Hope. Mary's 81-53. The Belles lost three of their five 
"They played a really good starters last season while Hope game and we played a not-so­lost only one. goo d game," said freshman Two of the Flying Dutch's 
SAINT MARY1S 1998-99 BASKETBALL 

12/4 SMC Roundball 12/5 Classic 12/9 Olivet College 
12/12 @Kalamazoo 
1/2 @ Alma College 
1/6 Calvin College 
1/9 Albion College 
1/12 @ Defiance College 1/20 Adrian College l/23 Hope ColJege 1/27 Alma C:olltge 1/30 .··<g)O!iv~tCollege 
2/3 Kalamazoo College 
2/6 @Calvin'College·-· 
2/9 @Albion C::olleg~ 
I>efianpei(:;i)llegf 

returning starters had double­figurn scoring averages last year and it showed. Hope built on the program they had last year and came out strong. 
"They're a powerhouse. They always have been," said sopho­more starter Julie Norman. 
Saint Mary's and Hope looked evenly matched at the start of the game, however. 
Senior starter Nicole Giffin had key shots for Saint Mary's and brought the Belles within two or the Flying Dutch (12-10) early on. 
By the end of the night, she was second for the Belles in scoring, with eight points. 
Unfortunately for the Belles', their shots stopped falling and 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
7" Stude.ttt eha.m/,e.t 
"1 • 
/It usic ~e.cltal 
>~· 
,, \ featuring works by 
Beethoven, Brahms, Faure, Handel,
!''\~ 

Mozart, Purcell, Smetana, and others 
j , Free and open to the public 

2:00 p.nt. 1tlda.y, 'Z),cint&tt 4 ,4,i,it1t6tt ,4udltotlunt C'[:h, S1tltt /ltustunt o tt 
KRAMER TIMES 
Volume 1 Issue 1 NOVEMBER 1998 

*Domus Properties has two, five,six and nine bedroom student housing avai1able 
*Student neighborhoods close to 
campus *Security systems provided *Well maintained homes *Maintenance staff on call 

Available for the 1999/2000
school year 
Contact Kramer {219} 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
their defense could only hold out for so long in the first hair. llopl' pulled away to a 24-14 lead at halftime. 
Although the Belles' defo11s1• held the flying Dutch's leading scorer Tara Hofford to a l11ss­than-average night, their sncond leading scorer posed a threat. Kristen Koenighsknet, who aver­ages 10 points a game, exploded against the Belles, racking up 16 points. 
Saint Mary's held their own on the defensive boards but had trouble at the basket. They also had trouble with their passing game, which led to unnecessary turnovers. 
Julie Norman led all Belles scoring with nine points. After c;iflin, Charlotte Albrect chipped in with seven points on the night. 

The Belles' inexperience has beim a problem in their season to this point, but something they said experience can help them surpass. 
"Being young is going to alTect us all season," said Norman. "But, it's an excuse we need to stop using. We have a lot of tal­ent, but we're not using it." 
Saint Mary's hosts a tourna­ment this weekend and will have another home game on Wednesday against Olivet, which will be a conference game. 
llere, they hope to show the league the talent they have and start the season they want to have. 
REASONS 
to Head to Heartland for 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
THURSDAYS 
•Nn..·/'·.···/··'Uf,• ,,
V cENV1t1,.
MICHIGAN
fANS ...and Bobby Knight 
GFREEWT-Shirt; 
fD99¢ Cover;~~""'rn 
Kick-off the weekend early at South Bend's 
BIGGEST PARTY 
}~
® 

222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND 
(219) 2 3 4-5 2 0 0 www aceplace-~.comfh<-!<lrtlrmd 
98 

GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT. 
Conveniently located in the heart of 
downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, 
serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
prime filet mignons, c-bones, and ribeyes 
(as well chicken, burgers and salads, too). 
Sec why steaks are our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 

Thursday, December 3, 1998 The Observer• TODAY Page 19 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN 
OKAY GUYS, I'~ REA DY 1'0 ~l r ZAH/1. 

BILL AMEND


FOXTROT 
'J'Oi.J KNOW, PAt6E, 

DILBERT 
wHi\T THE. .. Z L'V£ 'ottN St,.,GOT.A,GEO I 


9 Fracbon of a 
:n Trade area of
)OUle 
expanding
8=-+"-+''-i 10 Command to 
importance
Fido 32Coin word
11 Auto engineer Benz 3JSouth u Fo/1's heavier 
Amencar, cousin 
monkey 
:MOown­(Maine) 
ErodB 
-+-,+-,-11 Pre-op ,nhalant, once ::is Marathoner's 21 Hindu outfit stat lti Nol entirely ~·-ee11 happy Adhem· ~,-+-,-+,,-+-,,-1 2111 takes a bow 37 Kind of snake or Z-oo barriers crab 
~c. r ~M NOT PA.RT OF ;.. <il.OC>-'L CONS-Pt?.­>.CY iO P\...ANT A. Mi S5PHI.ED WORD lN 
't'OUR ''~llElL CHU.KER." 
52 Madonna's first top 10song 65 Haras~ed H Washeriul GT Old hull caulking 68 Actress Swenson 
•t "Frasier· honor 10 Systems of waist 
removal? 71 Shrinking 
DOWN 
1 Line of cliffs 2 Lecterns J "Moving_right 
• Milieu of the stressed-out 
$ Playboy Mansion name 
GP&tvl'! T Speaker ct note 
, 61!11ng cycle, otten 
Puai. by Chuck o-.. 

41 Roasted item H Proficient 44 In the cooler 51 Realfy move 441 Turkish money n Alpine transport so Runner-up to Ike u Countercurrent ,2 Make amend5 60 High ground in s;s Elbow 
Dutch lowlands 
1:1 Fishing aid
5"' command to 
Fido M German river 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95e p•r minute). 
Annual ,u~criplions are available for the best of Sl.lnday crouwords from the last 50 year$: 1-88&-7·ACROSS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Ozzy Osbourne, Anna Chlum­sky, Andy Williams, Rick Mclus 
Happy Birthday: You are truly a remarkable human being. However, you may have been to,, generous in the past; now it's time to play catch­up. If you can bring )'ourself to focus on the nec<.'ssities, you'll find yourself back on track in no time. You have what it takes lo move mountains this year, so stop vacillating and get going. Your numbers: 8, I9, 24, 27, 36, 42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Go over the work you've done and make sure you're totally pleased before you present it to your boss, Don't be afraid to discuss your goals with a superior. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Fol­low your gut feeling regarding your business ventures. False information is likely if you listen to idle chatter or gossip. Forus on what you know best. 
000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Uncertainty regarding your direction is likely, Look into career choices and courses being offered. Beware of indi­viduals who are not reliable or well­known to you. 000 
CANCER (June 2l•July 22): 
You've got a lot to do, so you'd better put your head down and dig in. The more relentless you are, the more you'll accomplish and the better you'll feel. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): This isn't the time to make mistakes. You may say something you'll regret. You'll get behind if you spend time debating senseless issues. Don't let friends talk you into taking time off. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept, 22): You'll 


Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
• 
be able to do,<.' business deals suc­
cessful!y. Don'I let pt'rsonal problem, 
interfere with professional rl'sponsi­
bilities. Focus on work first and tlw 
rest will fall int,, place. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You can clear up important legalities and sign contracts today. Property invest­ments, insurance, taxes or an inheri­tance should bring you financial gains. 00000 
SCORPIO Wet. 23-Nov. 21): II you're willing to cul loose, you'll find yoursl'lf in the midst of an exciting encounter. You can mix business with pleasure ii )'OU travel or confront large groups. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2fr Be your jovial self and you'l! get th<· support you need. Your diplomatic nature will aid you in straightening out unsavory situations. Look out for No.1000 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Get involved in competitive sports with clients. They will appreciate your determination and playful nature. You'll make new business connections if you play your cards right 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Us,, your head. You may jump from th,, frying pan into the fire if you make your move too quickly. Someone may not be thinking of your best interest Don't be loo hard on your mate 
00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You need an outlet, so gel into physical endeavors that will help you relieve your tension. Entertainment will be pleasing if it's of an energetic natul'l' 
00 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Comm unity. 
.Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your homt;. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name ---------------------------­
Address --------------------------­
City ________ State ____ Zip______ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Ouam,1 sTwenty-one 
words to Warp 1o4Cher,y­u Overthrow, e.g. 1 • Capture on 
video 
n Ou1da's ·-of 
Flanders· 
II Exurb zo Onion serv,ngs zz Suffix wi1h final 
orlalal 23 Sile er Texas ColleQe 2-' Atlantic City 
event 26 "Fat chance!" 211 Fantasize 
30 Standing 
:is With 4S-Across, a t 976 Eagles 1111 
,a Noggins n Footnote note '° Do schoolwork? 
u What Band-Aids 
aid "'3 Golden t-iorde 
member 
u See 35-Across 4T City south of 
Salem 4a Psinling flourish ••"Princess-· 
(1684 premiere) 51 Some Fertile Crescent 
residents 
~Opposerot 
Corte~ 
59 Bug killer, briefly ,1 Make mischiel 





¦ Tulane coach ¦ Cy Young winner Tommy Bowden Roger Clemens is made 
t. 
decides to leave his available for trading 
11-0 team to coach at after asking the Blue 
Clemson. Jays to release him. 
PORTS 
p.12 p.14 
O 
THE 
BSERVER 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
McMillen scores 23 points to continue Irish win streak 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
fusisrant Sporn Editor 
Senior captain Sheila McMillen scored a game-high 23 points and Danielle Green and Ruth Riley both had double-doubles. as sixth-ranked '.'Jotre Dame overcame a lack-Juster first half to defeat Toledo 82-64 last night at the Joyce Center. 
The Rockets closed to within four at the break, after Toledo's Jennifer Markwood hit a jumper to cap a 10-0 Toledo run. The Irish, however, had the hot hand in the sec­
~: •. ;.J better when _we '>~ent t?, .,,,-,..,,,,.. the box and ono, 
,,,. McGraw said. "I think that was our best defense against her. But overall shp,'s a terrific player. She did a 
nice job of not forcing ~hings in the first half. We were really trying to not let her get off, but I think she hart six assists and just one turnover in the first half." 
Knuth kept Toledo in the game early, as well as the Rocket defense, which forced 13 first half Irish turnovers. 
"It was their defense and our turnovers, but I think it was a lack of intensity more than anything," McGraw said. "We worked against the zone in practice and we weren't doing what we worked on. We missed a couple of shots and didn't rebound and I think they got a lot more confident."· 
Notre Dame had a 12-4 lead early and stretched it out to a 28-15 lead, following a 9-0 run in which freshman Sherisha Hills scored seven of the nine points. Hills fin­ished with 12 points on the night. 
In the second half, however, the Irish opened it up. 
"In the first half we were a little bit flat and at halftime we talked about coming out and setting the tempo and get a run going 
see B-BALL/ page 17 

ond half and pulled away .--------------, shooting in the first half
etbehind an outstanding Notre Da·m·e 82 and finished with just 17 shooting performance IJy points on the night. McMillen. VS;,. •~':'""'.· "I thought we looked 
"In the second half, we came out with a little more Toledo 64 intensity and shot tho ball 
extremely well from the perimeter," Irish head coach Muffet McGraw said. "Sheila did a great job of shooting the three and Ruth did a good job on the boards and under the basket." 
McMillen bit four second-half three pointers and was a perfect 6-for-6 from the foul line. 
"If you hit a couple of threes at the begin­ning of the half' like she did, that tends to get you pumped up and gets the crowd back in the game," Toledo head coach Mark Ehlen said. 
The Irish dominated the boards and quickly built a 16-point lead, just six min­utes after the Rockets had closed within a basket. 
"I thought Ruth and Danielle Green did a nice job in there in both halves," McGraw said. "They rebounded extremely well. I was really pleased with their effort." 
Hiley had 17 rebounds to go along with her 15 points. Green finished 12 points and 13 boards. 
"They are a tremendous rebounding team," said Ehlen. who watched his team get outrebounded by the Irish 54-38. "They 
¦ SWIMMING AND DIVING 
have a guard out there who has 13 boards. And then Ruth Riley is like a vacuum clean­er. We talked about getting a body on her. but we didn't. 
"It's obviou1, that we got pounded on the hoards," Ehlen continued. "I thought our half court defense was fine, but you can't allow a team to get that many second and third shots." 
The Irish defense did a good job of shut­ting down Toledo's Kim Knuth, who entered the game averaging 28.4 points per contest. Knuth was held to just 2-of-10 
SwimIDers and divers to host three-day, six-session meet 
By WES RICHARDSON Nine women's and eight men's teams Sports W ricer will bring 357 athletes to compete in the three-day, six-session meet at Rolfs 
The biggest and fastest meet in Notre Aquatic Center. The field includes 53 Dame swimming history begins today divers, by far the largest diving field when the Irish host the fourth-annual amassed at Notre Dame. Notre Dame Invitational. The weekend promises to see the fastest times at Rolfs since top-ranked Stanford opened the season with a victo­ry against the Irish in October. Eighth ranked Michigan expects to take the women's title, while No. 12 Florida State is favored to win the men's side of the meet. 

"Some of the fastest times in the coun­try for t!Jis fall will be performed here this weekend," said men's coach Tim Welsh. "Every team that comes here wants that to be true, and they all want to have a piece of it." 
Although the Irish men do not antici­pate winning the meet, the expectation of personal best times will keep them in the race. 
"There will be no slouches here," said Antonio Fonseca. "It will be a good per­sonal barometer and it gives coaches a good idea of how fast we're going to go at conference Ichampionships]." 
The men will use the Invitational as a dress rehearsal for Big East Championships in February. One of the goals of the meel is to create a prclims Sflssion that will be comparable. to the speed of prelims at Big East Championships. according tu Welsh. 
The Irish men will have their only chance lo compete against traditional dual meet rivals Ball State and Western Kentucky. 
"We've had a good season of training up to this point." said Grant Burrall. 

"Now that we're rested and shaved, we're ready to show everyone how fast we're capable of going." 
"We are preparing for this meet as the focus meet of the season. We've pre­pared all fall to say now is the time where we go faster than we've ever gone," Welsh said. 
Distance freestyle should be the men's greatest strength, according to Welsh. James Scott-Browne will likely place in the top eight in today's 500 freestyle. Scott-Browne and teammate John Pierce will make a run at the top two spots in Saturday's mile. 
Scott Zumbach enters the meet ranked first in both the 200-and 400-yard indi­vidual medley. He also holds the second place spot in the 200-yard butterfly. 
The Irish have the potential to domi­nate the backstroke events with captain Chris Fugate and freshman David Horak entering the meet ranked fourth and fifth in the 100-yard event. Dan Szilier is a likely candidate to win the 100-yard breaststroke. 
Coming off tlrn exhausting Minnesota Invitational on Nov. 20-22. the Irish women are concentrating on mental prnparation for this weekend, according to Shannon Suddarth and coach Bailey Weathers. Intense training will continue through the meet, with a focus on Big 
see SWIM/ page 17 
at Gator Bowl vs. Georgia vs. Central Michigan, 
Tech, Jan. I. Saturday, 2 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Roundball Classic Friday 6 & 8 p.m.
ATA 
at Eastern Michigan

vs. Connecticut Saturday 1 & 3 p.m. 
at NCAA Tournamenc

Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
Friday, 5:30 p.m.
GLANCE 





