
Monday, March 23, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No.lll 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Man attacks Regina Hall desk attendant 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
A man charged through the front doors of Regina Hall at approximate­ly 1:30 a.m. Sunday, screaming obscenities before attacking Beverly Moyer, the front desk attendant. 
The man, who allegedly attends New York University, was visiting a Saint Mary's student when he caused an abrasion on Moyer's face and broke her glasses. 
"There was no apparent cause for this attack." said Saint Mary's Public Relation's office. "He was allegedly high on acid and marijuana." 
The man demanded medication and yelled about a tumor when he assaulted Moyer, according to Meghan McCormick, a Saint Mary's freshman who witnessed the attack. 
He ran behind the desk and hit 
Moyer over the head while holding a Saint Mary's Security was then wallet which sent credit cards and called while another Notre Dame stu­identification spilling onto the floor, dent pinned the assailant to the 
McCormick  ground. Two secu­ 
claimed.  rity guards arrived  
Two Notre  at the  scene  and  
Dame  stu­ ''WHEN SECURI1Y CAME IN, HE  handcuffed him.  
dents quick­ly stepped  WAS SCREAMING 'GIVE ME  The Saint Joseph County Sheriff's  
in after the  YOUR GUN, GIVE ME YOUR GUN.' HE  Department  was  
aggressor struck  YELLED, 'JUST SHOOT ME, JUST SHOOT  called in for assis­tance after the  
Moyer.  ME.'"  man  attempted to  
"After he  grab  a  security  
pushed her,  guard's  gun,  
I ran behind  MEGHAN McCORMICK  according to Saint  
the desk [to  REGINA HALL RESIDENT  Mary's  Public  
help]," said  Relations.  
J  a  i  m  e  "When security  

Morales, a Notre Dame student who came in, he was screaming, 'Give me helped restrain the attacker. "I threw your gun, give me your gun,"' said a shoulder into him and knocked him McCormick, a Regina Hall resident. down." "He yelled, 'Just shoot me, just shoot me." 
An immediate arrest was allegedly withheld, in order to medically treat the assailant for possible drug abuse. 
"He said he was on acid, and his girlfriend said he took drugs," Morales said. 
Saint Mary's Public Relations said that an investigation is still pending. 
The Saint Joseph County Sheriff's Department could not be reached for comment. 
Moye's condition is also unknown, although witnesses said she claimed immediately after the assault to be unharmed. 
"It's terrible that this had to hap­pen to one of the sweetest ladies." McCormick said. "I was really scared because I've never experienced any­thing like this. It was one of the most frightening things I've ever seen in my life." 

Students to h~r environmental rally at SDH 
Assistant Managing Edit<Jt 
Today at 5 p.m., the Students for 
Environmental Action will hold a 
protest against the use of polystyrene 
cups and plates in the South Dining 
Hall. 
The rally is a reaction to the 
hall's assumption that stti(ierits 
overly concerned with envito ....·..· ..... 1.· 
issues. according to Chris Lom(l.s; the 
president of SEA and co~ordiriator of 
the rally. 
"It seemed to me that they [dining hall 
offidals1 did not feel that there was a 
whole lot of environmental awareness 
at Notre Dame," Lomas said, ''They 
think that students hardly recycle. .This 
rally is to show that students do care 
about the environment." 
Students returned after spring break 
and discovered that the next phase of 
SOH's renovation had been instituted 
while they were away: No longer would 
the students be eating off of reusable 
china while indulging in me<~.ls. It1s~t:}ad, 
students must use polystyrene, a r~ttely 
recycled material that is considered an, 
environmental hazard by niany earth­
conscious organizations. 
"Polystyrene is rated number six: That 
means that it is in the least recyclable 
category," Lomas said. "The dining hall 
indicated to me that they would have 
had to pay a lot of money to people to 
get them to take it off of their h#nds, 
That's why they are not recycling/1' · 
Lomas indicated that thl':l dining hall 
stat'!' had done a great deal of research 
before making the decision to switch to 
polystyrene. If the regular dishes>con­
tinued to be used, he· said, the 
University would have to bymore clibla 
and hire extra workers .to \V 
dishes, whic;h would have t6 Ji 

ported to another location heca of 
the construction. Plastic and .paper 
were also considered. 
According to Lomas, Dave 
Prentkowski and Jim Yarborough of 
Food Services indicated that plastic 

would have been too costly <1.11 
paper.wou14.have allowedsom 
food to seep. through ot 
sagged ill. the middle. 
And the winner is ... 

S
hane Fimbel (left), proudly displays his science project for Notre Dame judge Eric Schear (right) in the annual Northern Indiana Regional Science and Engineering Fair. The fair featured projects of 400 students, in grades 4-12, 
from public and private schools in Elkhart, Fulton, Marshall and St. Joseph counties. The students gathered in 
Stepan Center on Saturday, from 1-4 p.m. More than 100 awards were given in the areas of behavior and social sci­
ences, biochemistry, botany, chemistry, computer sciences, earth and space science, engineering and many others. 

Physics professor dies at age 6 7 
Observer Staff Report 
Nripendra Biswas, professor of physics at the 
U n i v e r sity Notre Dame, died unexpect­edly Monday of a heart attack. He was 67. Biswas was one of three Notre Dame 

physicists alive Biswas in a Fermilab group which in 1995 claimed evi­dence to verify the existence of the "top quark," the last of the six quarks predicted to exist by current scientific theory. 
A native of Pakistan, Biswas 
eral connections between theory and experimental results, and made many major contributions in that regard," Cason said. "Notre Dame is recognized internationally for its important research in meson spec­troscopy, and Nripen was a leading figure in that work, and was known worldwide for his expertise." 
In addition, Cason said, Biswas mentored many graduate students. at Notre Dame, including 14 who earned doctorates under his advi­sorship. 
"He was a popular thesis advisor for graduate students," said Gerald Jones, chairman of the department of physics. 
Biswas received his bachelor's degree in physics, chemistry and mathematics from Scottish Church College in Calcutta, and his mas­ter's and doctoral degrees from the University of Calcutta. 
He taught introductory laborato­ries in physics and life sciences for pre professional and physics stu­
see BISWAS page 4 

joined the Notre Dame faculty as an associate professor in 1996 after having been a senior research sci­entist at the Max Planck Institute in Munich, Germany. 
According to Neal Cason, a pro­fessor of physics who came to Notre Dame in 1996 collaborated with Biswas on several research pro­jects, Biswas was an experimental physicist with a strong theoretical bent. 
"Nripen was responsible for sev­
Monday, March 23, 1998

page 2 The Observer· INSIDE 

• INSIDE COLUMN 

ROTC and 
Billy Madison 
What do Billy Madison's ~~~~~~~ principal. Jack Nieholson, Tom Clancy and the writ­NS on page 8 and 10 have in common'? 
They all have something to teach you about why David McMahon is wrong about HOTC on Notre Dame's campus. Spencer Stefko 
With apologies to Assistant Viewpoint Editor Billy's principal. I would like to start with a modified version of the <Titique he gave of one of Billy's mono­logues to describe just how Mr. McMahon's article contributed to thought on campus. 
Mr. McMahon, what you just wrote is one of the most insanely idiotic things I've heard in my entire life. At no point in your rambling, incoherent response did you even come close to anything that resembled rational thought. Everyone on this campus is now dumber for having read it. I award you no points, for logic or critique. And may God have mercy on your soul. 
In "A Few Good Men," Jack Nicholson plays an ego-maniacal Marine ollieer who goes postal on the witness stand. While most of his comments were psychotic, one is made to think by his comments concerning national safety. lie asks Tom Cruise. the questioning attorney, how he can question him concern­ing national safety when the only reason he has this right to trial and right to question a military leader is because of the very defense that leader provides. 
It is very American to have the right to question what we do as a country and where our money goes; however, I find it to be the heigth of disrespect to question the existence of the strueture that provides the freedom. 
Let's just go a step further and eliminate policemen and policewomen, too. 
The gnntlenwn on page I 0 make great points. They are both veterans, so they understand what they function of HOTC real­ly is. 
Tom Clancy came to campus last year and. before he was wrongly dismissed as a misog­ynistic brat. made some very eloquent points about the military. When his patriotism was called into question, Mr. Clancy rightly shut thn questioner up. 
lie pointed out that priests did not establish thn freedom of religion. That journalists did not establish the freedom of press. Soldiers did. 

I admire Ghandi greatly. But Clancy was right to point out that if Ghandi were to have livml 2000 milns northwest, in the gentle rnginw of one Joseph Stalin, he-and his followers-would have been handed the proverbial cigarette and blindfold quieker than you can say "peaceful resistance." 
This isn't the first time a elown pulled this on campus. I leave you with a note from yes­teryear. On Nov. 10, 1995, in response to a pnace group marching for the abolishment of HOTC, Brandon Williams (page 8 today) wrote the following: 
"To sum things up, perhaps America has not always been right. but ... I ask that all students here remember the veterans of past wars and give a special glance of apprecia­tion to our HOTC students-not for mili­tarism or the Pentagon, but because of a will­ingness to light and die for those sacred Christian tenets that the [critics) enjoy." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF 

News Accent Kristi Klitsch Sarah Dylag Christopher Shipley Nate Wills Sarah Hiltz Graphics Sports Tom Roland Kathleen Lopez Production Viewpoint Matt Loughran Spencer Stefko Lab Tech Mike Boland 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi>hed Monday through Friday cxc.:cpt during exam .and voh:ation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Friends find Harvard student dead in apparent suicide 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

Students and administrators at the School of Public Health participated in a gathering last night commemo­rating the life of master's degree can­didate Frank Minore Jr. 
Concerned friends found Minore dead in his Boston apartment Wednesday evening in what Boston police spokesperson Margot llill has confirmed was an apparent suicide. Minore was 35. 
According to Hill. state officials found four prescription drug vials and a bottle of liquor next to the body. Minore showed no vital signs upon discovery, and was pronounced dead at 9:23p.m. 
About 30 students and colleagues gathered at Shattuck International House -the SPII apartment building where Minore lived this year -to "express their sadness about the death," according to Harvard spokesperson Joe Wrinn. 
• PENN STATE 
Prof continues marijuana protests 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
In the presence of University Police Services, a candidate for governor, drug advocates and drug opposition, retired professor Julian lleicklen smoked another "joint" in front of University Gates yesterday. "The time has come for revolu­tion. We are fortunate that this country has a political party to lead this revolution," Heicklen said during the protest. "That party is the Libertarian party, the party of freedom." University police ollicers present at yesterday's protest did not confiscate any "joints" from the scene and did not com­ment on their actions. Beginning in January, Heicklen staged marijuana protests in order to be arrested, request a jury trial and be found not guilty, nullifying all marijuana laws. lleicklen and four others were arrested during a protest in February, and his preliminary hearing was scheduled for last Wednesday. However, Heicklen failed to appear for his scheduled preliminary hearing. As a result, an arrest warrant was issued for Heicklen by District Justice Allen Sinclair Wednesday afternoon. 
• MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY 
Three sexual assaults concern campus 
MILWAUKEE, Wis. 
Three second-degree sexual assaults have been reported at Marquette in the last eight days, bringing this academic year's total to four -the same number as was reported in the entire 1996-1997 academic year. Although none of the reports were related. the number is still a cause for con­cern, according to Sue Cooper, DPS crime prevention ofli­cer. "If we have three reported, there could be others hap­pening that aren't being reported," she said. "These were all acquaintance-related assaults. These crimes aren't being committed by strangers from off the street, they are people the victims know. Students need to realize that this crime does happen on this campus and that it is happen­ing." The latest of the three incidents occurred Monday. A student reported being sexually assaulted by an identified suspect. According to Cooper, MPD was contacted in this case. MPD Public Information Officer Earnell Lucas said it was a 19-year-old female who reported the incident. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

,v,~.Jo. ''' 
(5'"'\f"'",,,,,~/·./',,, ~ 

q,Q,~AGQ i) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 

SPII Acting Dean James Ware said students were also able to share their grief at an afternoon support session in one of the school's private dining rooms. 
Minore "had developed a lot of friendships Iat SPill." said Dominic Minore, the victim's brother. "He was very outgoing. He enjoyed life." 
A native of San Diego who graduat­eel in 1985 from San Diego State University with a major in political science, Frank Minore earned a J.D. degree from thfl University of San Francisco in 1989, graduating with honors. 
Minore, an enthusiastic celebrant of his Italian heritage, also spent a year at the University of Florence during college, and maintained close tiPs with his family in Sicily, his brother said. 
Aftm several years of working as an associate for the San Frandsen law firm Tobin & Tobin, Minore tmrolled in the SPII's one-year Law and Publie Health program in 1997. 
"Frank wanted to change his area of specialization in law," Dominic Minore said. "This program was best suited for his 1weds. lie was very much interested in thn program of health care issues." 
Dominic Minore said his family is "in great shock" after the death. 
• VIRGINIA MiliTARY INSTITUTE 
Court files no charges in hazing case 
LEXINGTON, Va. 

Three Virginia Military Institute seniors suspended for spanking freshmen with a belt and hanger will not bt~ pros­ecuted, according to one of the students who was bnaten. George Wade Jr., who dropped out in Decnmber, said Saturday that !lockbridge County Commonwealth's Attorney Gordon Saunders told him an assault charge would be difficult to prove because he could bn snen as a willing participant. Wade, 20, said he and five othnr fresh­men were brmten on the buttocks about thren times a wt~ek from September to mid-October, leaving tht~m with welts and bruisns. Wade said he endured the beatings because hn felt he had no choice. Wade said the prosecutor told him a hazing charge cannot be made without a complaint by VMI. School ollieials, who suspended th1~ seniors for a semester, said the beatings were not hazing. Last month. thrne of the freshmen who were struck challenged Wade's aceount, say­ing the beatings were horseplay. Wadn said hn plans to ask the Justiee Department to investigatn. 
• lOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Car chase ends at student union 
BATON HOUGE, La. 

A campus McDonald's employee, snnt horne Thursday evening to retrieve part of his uniform, led five law-enforce­ment agencies on a 45-minute ear chase which ended when he penned himself in the Union parking lot. Willie Stewart Jr., 19. was arrested and booked into East Baton Houge Parish Prison on several charges stemming from the chase. Pursuit began when two state Alcohol and Tobaceo Control agents saw a grey Toyota pass them on the shoulder at high speed in the area around Nicholson Drive and Bob Petit Boulevard, according to Trooper Trevor Smith, public infor­mation ollicer for Troop A of the State Police. "lie almost hit a couple of people on bicycles," said Will Brian, special agent for the ATC. The agents, concernnd for the safety of pedestrians and other drivers, attempted to stop Stewart, Smith said. "At that point, he ran," he said. "The guy never made any attempt to stop." The pursuit involved several agencies induding ATC agents, State Police and LSUPD. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, March 23. 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
0 1998 AccuWealher, Inc. 


Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY VIB AssOCJBied Press 
Atlanta 63 36 Denver 65 40 Miami 74 55 Baltimore 52 25 Honolulu 82 69 New York 47 26 Chicago 44 25 Houston 80 47 Phoenix 92 61 Cleveland 44 24 Indianapolis 45 25 St. Louis 46 34 Dallas 81 51 Los Angeles 77 53 Wash., D.C. 53 25 
.....-~---~-~-_.....~--~--­ 
' - .. '  
Monday, March 23, 1998  The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS  page 3  

Notre Da01e honors Mother Teresa with service week 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
Associate News Editor 
With the help of Mother Teresa Service Week, Notre Dame students now have a chance to fulfill their Lenten resolutions to do more service projects. 
This week. students will 
work hand in hand with South Bend area service organizations to honor Mother Teresa's memory and make a positive impact on the South Bend community. 
The project was started when it was suggested at a Student Senate meeting that Notre Dame memorialize 
Mother Teresa in some way. The senators concluded that service would be the best venue by which to accomplish this. 
"Mother Teresa is a woman who devoted her life to serv­ing others. She crossed all lines and all boundaries to make a difference in the life 
of her fellow human beings. It small too. There is no reason 
seems to me that the students we can expect to get 4,000 
of Notre Dame at least owe students with two months 
her this. It is up to people like notice," Cooper said. 
us to keep her spirit alive in The type of service students 
her absence," said Brandon do varies from group to 
Williams, senator and mem­group. Some students will be 
ber of the committee in getting down and dirty reno­
charge of organizing the pro­vating and cleaning Head 
gram. Start facilities, while others 
During the week, approxi­will be building an indoor 
mately 250 Notre Dame stu-horseback riding track at . dents will enter into the Reins of Life. Others will be 
South Bend community to giving tours of the Notre 
work with Dame campus 
area volun-to underprivi­
teers in leged and 
improving 'IT'S KIND OF A TRIAL YEAR. elderly citi­
zens of South16 different WE DIDN'T HAVE ANY 

area service Bend who organiza­FlJNDING IN THE BEGINNING, SO have never tions. The 
IT WAS HARD AT FlRST.' seen the cam-
program pus before, 
originally and about 30 
aimed for 
JAKE COOPER students will participa­
SERVICE WEEK CoMMIITE MEMBER be spending
tion of 500, Saturday 
but has had helping South 
trouble Bend resi­
recruiting dents tear 
student vol-down crack 
unteers. houses. 
"It's kind of a trial year," The memory of Mother 
said committee member Jake Teresa and the lessons from 
Cooper. "We didn't have any her life will be further memo­
funding in the beginning, so it rialized and communicated 
was hard at first. AdWorks through pamphlets and book­
was nice enough to do free marks that each participant 
posters for us, so we've relied will receive. The literature 
heavily on that." will relate anecdotes and 
Cooper added that, despite lessons from Mother Teresa's 
the relatively low turnout, the life, and each participant will 
numbers are not disappoint­also take part in a prayer ser­
ing. vice in her memory to accen­
"Even if we just get a hand­tuate the week of service. 
ful of volunteers, we'd be Students interested in par­
happy. Anything we get would ticipating can contact Cooper, 
be a positive thing for us. Williams or committee mem­
"Mother Teresa started ber Eliza Hommel. 


v. March 24 
Another thing .....----··· Date Rape Drugs 12:30PM Haggar roam Mary's College 
..The Accused .. Dinner provide Movie & Discussion 5:30PM 131 Debartolo 
women with Wings-Choreopoem in TWo Acts 
OQPM Hesburgh Library 

uClitorium 
ce for Rape Elimination & Gender Studies 
---------~--~--~ 
page 4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 23, 1998 
All Shook Up  Protest  a part of a long-term plan and will only last until the end of the year, or until construction  "They should have taken the extra step or shelled out more money to be more environ­ 
continued from page 1  reaches a point at which the dining hall can re-open their  mentally conscious," Lomas said. "We want to show them  
"The people at food services  washing facilities.  But even  that this is a  really important  
did research their options,"  though this change is only  a  issue; that there  are students  
Lomas said. "They decided  short-term one, SEA wants  who do  care about the envi­ 
that the most cost-effective  the  dining  hall  and  the  ronment."  
way  was  the  polystyrene  University to know that many  The rally will be held in  
way."  students are not pleased with  front of the South Dining Hall.  
The change to polystyrene is  this decision.  

wife, Liesolotte, and a son Bend. 
and daughter. "He was a kind a gracious Visitation was held last man," Jones said. "He was a continued from page 1 Saturday at the Hickey valuable member of our 
Funeral Home, 17131 department." dents. Survivors include his Cleveland Road in South 
Biswas 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association & The Center for Social Concerns Proudly Present: CENTER FOR SOCIALDESTINY CONCERNS  
The ObseNer/Monica Garza Elvis impersonator John Newinn performed on Saturday at Washington Hall as part of this week's Asian Heritgate cele­bration. Newinn is the first impersonator to place second in the International Elvis Impersonator Contest held in Memphis,Tenn.  1997-87 mn. A feature FILM by Mohamed Camara from Guinea DAKAN OR DESTINY WILL BE REMEMBERED AS THE FIRST FEATURE FILM ON HOMOSEXUALITY FROM SUB­SAHARAN AFRICA. While "coming out" may have become primetime fare in the U.S., this film was met with angry protests when it was shot in the director's native Guinea and has generated heated debate among Africanists here as well. But beyond its controversial topic, Dakan is a contemporary African reinter­pretation of the age-old Romeo and Juliet conflict between love and social convention. Director Mohamed Camara has written: "I made this film to pay tribute to those who express their love in whatever way they feel it, despite society's effort to repress it" fOLLOWED BY A PANEL DISCUSSION ON: "WHAT PLACE FOR HOMOSEXUALS IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES" FEATURING: 1. Prof. Dominic Thomas, Romance Languages Department., Moderator; 2. Prof. Patricia Davis, Government Department; 3. Jacqueline Ogutu, Computer Science, SouthWestern Michigan College; 4. Surajit Bose, Ph.D. Candidate, English Department; 5. Mark Behr, Ph.D Candidate, English Department;  
"\O ~OUI/J_I e ~OPPy}; ,,.t'l)d 'He'( You spoke. 0 Give We listened.0 Beginning the Fall Semester of 1998,I I Notre Dame Food Services will offer an alternative0 to the traditional I I I 21 Meal Plan. ~ We call it Flex 14 . •To Sign Up just bring your current Notre Dame ;~ Card to either North or South Dining Hall lobby between March24-27 from 7:00a.m. to 7:00p.m . .  

·~----------------------------------~------------~--~--~--------~----~------~-­

Monday, March 23, 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hill compares harassment cases 
Anita Hill says her case against Clarence Thomas is different from charges made against President Clinton and urges women to consider the bigger issue of the administration's policies toward women before judg­ing his personal behavior. Hill also joined feminist leader Gloria Steinem in saying Sunday that Clinton's alleged advances to White House aide Kathleen Willey, while improper and crude if true, did not constitute sexual harassment. Republicans have chided Democratic women and feminist groups for not speaking out against President Clinton as they did in the sexual impropriety cases of conservative Supreme Court Justice Thomas or RPpublican Sen. Bob Packwood. 
Cabin fire kills 11 
MILES TOWNSHIP, Pa. 
An early morning fire killed 11 people in a mountain cabin Sunday, including high school students on a camping trip. Centre County coroner Scott Sayers confirmed the deaths but would not identify the victims. There wem no survivors, he said. The fire broke out at 5:20 a.m. in this township 20 miles northeast of State College, according to state police. At least some of the victims attended Line Mountain High School in Herndon, about 30 miles north of Harrisburg. Principal Alexander Menio was at the high school Sunday night but would not comment. Deb Shaffer, a teacher's aide, said the school was opened in the afternoon and counselors were available to help stu­dents. families and community members. 
U.N. asked to leave after discovery of grave 
KINSHASA, Congo 
The government ordered the expulsion of a U.N. team investigating alleged wartime massacres by victorious rebel forces, after the officials began exhuming graves, state­run television reported Sunday. The U.N. team, one of three conducting massacre investigations in the former Zaire, was given until March 31 to finish its work northwestern region of Mbandaka and depart, Voice of the People television said. "The people of Congo have expressed their desire for the expulsion of the U.N. mis­sion," the station said. Congolese military authorities were "shocked and indignant" that the U.N. team had "desecrated" several graves at a cemetery in Mbandaka, the sta­tion said. 
1;1tMM\Yttfidlitl.leM 
AMEX: Dow 727.79 +0.99 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1789.16

8906.43 

-10.82 
NYSE: 572.61 +5.23 

S&P 500: 
Composite 
1099.16 Volume: 
+9.42 717,000,000
+103.37 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
r!.!MI'~~::r: IIS:lHB "~~ r11 ~:s~1 S!i ·~I:S ~1ur~ 
KENNEDY-WILSON  KWIC  60.00'~11  13.500  36,000  
REAI.AX SOFTW-ADR  RLAXY  4R.B4'.Kt  5.250  16.000  
JACOR COMM WTS \1EDOWIIROOK REHA  )CORM MllRK  44.44% 39.13'lfJ  1.000 LI2S  3.250 ·tDOO  
MAl SYSTEMS CORP  NOW  36.67')(,  1.375  5.125  
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS  
TRANSCE)-11> TIIERAI' PERITUS SOFfWARE  TSN!l PTUS  -60.71'*1 -30.57~.1(.  ·4.2SO -4.375  2.750 9.938  
CIDCO INC.  coco  -21.27~)1'!  ·2.719  10.063  
DISCREET LOGIC  DSLGP  -20.60(*)  -4.688  18.063  
Ot\IEI INC-ADR  DAlEY  -19.44%  -1.750  7.250  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• BRAZIL 
Fires continue to scorch Brazil 
Authorities see no end in sight, predict worst-ever year 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BOA VISTA 

More fires like those that have consumed 1.5 million acres of pasture, savanna and virgin Amazon forest are likely, scien­tists say, unless changes are made in rain forest development. 
Carbon-dating has indicated at least four huge burn-offs in the past 2,000 years -the last about 400 years ago. But this year's fires in the remote north­ern state of Roraima, fueled by the severest drought in 30 years, are the worst in recent history. 
According to Daniel Nepstad, a forest ecologist with the Woods Hole Research Center in Massachusetts, Roraima can be seen as a microcosm for the whole Amazon because it has all types of vegetation endemic to the region contained in a rela­tively small area. 
"It's very dry now and depend­ing on the frequency and the amount of rains this year, 1998 could be the fieriest year ever," Nepstad warns. 
While a good deal of blame for fires that have raged for three months has been placed on the El Niiio weather phenomenon. which has brought only 1/25th of an inch of rain all year, there are other contributors. 
"People want to treat this like a nature disaster, like an earth­quake or tidal wave, where nothing can be done. But it's not just El Nino, there are economic and social factors that also have an impact," said Philip Fearnside, a scientist at the National Institute for Amazon Research in the jungle city of Mana us. 
AFP Photo Settlers streaming into the 
T
his aerial view from a helicopter shows forest fires raging in Brazil's northern highlands on Sunday region and increased logging are 
making the rain forest increas­
near Apiau. The huge blazes, which began in December, are being helped by the worst drought 
since 1926, linked to the weather phenomenon El Nifio. 
. B'ELPA$l' 
PoHc;~.·.'S(!iZeQ a.l.;?()q, pound car .bomp heiri~ assembled near Northern•· Ireland on. Sp,qday\ th~< l:l:Vfl., 
of the IRA~allied Sinn Fein party's return t{} pea<:e . talks. 
AfiP.Photo ChiefSuperinteriderit Al Gerry Adams, leader of Sinn McHugh said the bomb dis-Fein, will rejoin peace talks 
covered in Dundalk, 50 
today despite an attempted 
miles south of. Belfast and 
car bombing that police are 
inside the Irish Republic,
linking to the Irish Republican 
"would have caused mas·
Army. 
sive destruction" to its
Sinn Fein affiliates itself 
with the IRA. unknown target in the 
ingly vulnerable to burning. 
uLru•cn:a.. •province, bomb appeared to be ~Mlatest' attempt by .. )Jli~jtants qppo,s~d.t<t.th~· 
Jrish Republican Army's 8­tilbJ:ith~old trute to under• mill~ the Peac~ process, set to resume Mo,gday in Belfast 
Extremists have bombed two· mostly pro·British Prot~stant ~own.s and fired mortar shells at a police station since Sinn Fein was expelled from the talks Feb. 20 as punishment for twokillings blamed on the IRA. 
. Police found more than 1,300 pourids of fertilizer~ based explosives in a shed in Dundalk, which also 
··contained circuitry, detoc nating cord and the truck that would have carried the bomb. Two men were arrested. 
The British and Irish governments --: which cosponsor the multi-party negotiations on Northern Ireland's future that are supposed to conclude by May --' invited Sinn Fein to rejoin the talks two weeks ago. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 23, I 998 



1950s idol comes to Saint Mary's for musical performance 
Troy Donahue stars in 'Bye Bye Birdie' at O'Laughlin Auditorium 
By JOANNA GROSSA News Writer 

Tall with blond hair, deep blue eyes, tan skin and athletic build. 1950s teen idol Troy Donahue starred in thH musical comHdy, "Bye Bye Birdie," this past weekend at ()'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
The performance was a part of the "Best of Broadway" theatrical series sponsored by Saint Mary's. 
Donahue's appearance differs little from when he was a Hollywood star; he was best known for his polite, goody-two-shoes characters struggling with the generation gap between the emerging '60s rebels and their conservative parents. 
Ironically, Donahue plays the role of Harry MacAfe1~ in "Bye Bye Birdie," the befuddled father ­typical of the late 1950s-who can't seem to under­stand the new emerging generation. MacAfee's frus­tration with his own daughter's obsession with an Elvis-like rock and roll star (Conrad Birdie) is expressed in the song, "Kids, What's the Matter with Kids?" 
Before Saturday night's closing perfromance, Donahue confessed his inexperience with singing. "This is my first time ever doing a musical. In fact, I was surprised to lind myself committing to do this," he said. "I hope I did everything right." 
After receiving music lessons form his mezzo­soprano girlfriend, the music director of "Bye Bye Birdie," and a private voice coach, Donahue gave a solid performance as Mr. MacAfee, not only in the "Kids" number, but also in "Hymn for a Sunday Evening," a parody of the 1950s reverence of Ed Sullivan. 
Despite this being his debut performance in a musi­cal, Donahue is hardly a new face in the entertain­ment world. 
Since 1957 he has compiled an impressive resume including over 40 motion pictures, two television series and numerous made-for-TV movies. He was an American leading man in such classics as "A Summer Place" (co-starring Sandra Dee and Dorothy McGuire), "Rome Adventure" (with Suzanne Pleshette), "Imitation of Life" (with Lana Turner) and has appeared in recent hits "Grandview USA" (with Patrick Swayze and Jennifer Jason Leigh) and "Godfather: Part II." 
Today, Donahue, 63, considers "A Summer Place" to be his most important film. "for sentimental reasons," he said. "This film is what really got me started in Hollywood." 
In honor of his famous breakthrough film which made him a teen idol, Donahue, as Harry MacAfee, wears a similar red sweater as his heartbreaking character, Johnny, did 40 years ago. 
When Donahue is not involved per­forming on stage or in lilms, he is usually riding his Harley Davidson or sailing around the world. Donahue established and now runs film seminars aboard Holland America Cruise Lines, which allow passengers to become movie pro­ducers in a "hands-on" learning course. 
For a man whose entire life has been centered around acting. it is difficult for Donahue to imagine what else he may have become if his good looks and digni­fied acting characteristics had not charmed the American public. 
"Well, seeing as how I'm illegally prac­ticing medicine right now, probably a doctor" he joked, referring to how he was taking care of many of the sick actors and stage crew of "Bye Bye Birdie." 
Donahue also has a serious side, and he emphasized the importance of being responsible in regards to alcohol and drugs. Having successfully conquered his own battle with alcohol many years ago, Donahue is sincere in warning high school and college students against the dangers of using "anything that affects you from the neck up." 
According to the former movie and tele­vision star, "probably about 50 percent of the people you know are, or will become, alcoholics (in the formal definition of the term)." 
Fortunately, Donahue was extremely lucky to get himself out of the trap of alcoholism and now eagerly looks for­ward to every new experience and adven­ture life has to offer him. 

Troy Donahue (right) sings about "Kids" in Encore Attractions national touring production of "Bye Bye Birdie." The group performed at Saint Mary's O'Laughlin Auditorium over the weekend. 

Listening Session with Professor O'Hara 
.___., he University Committee on Cultural Diversity will sponsor a 
Listening Session with Professor Patricia O'Hara on Tuesday evening, March 24, from 7:30 until 9 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Professor O'Hara will offer a 15-minute reflection on issues related to multicultural challenges and concerns at Notre Dame. After Professor O'Hara's comments, those in attendance will be invited to share their comments and concerns with her. 
Refreshments will be served. 
Monday, March 23, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 



ND hosts 13th annual medical ethics conference 
By TARA CHURIK 
News Writer 
Issues such as medically prolonged life and physician assisted suicide were addressed at the 13th annual Medical Ethics Conference held this past weekend at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The Notre Dame Alumni Association sponsored the conference. 
Over 130 people from many academic backgrounds, inclu­ding medicino, philosophy and theology, participated in tho conference. The confer­ence usually attracts several nationally renowned experts of medical ethics, including Mark Siegler, director of the who were able to observe Center for Clinical Medical "real-world" medical issues. 


Ethics at the Pritzker School of Medicine. 
"This confer­ence was a great experience because it gave those of us enter­ing medicine some exposure to both the policy perspective and the moral per­spective of medi­cine," says junior participant Adrian Cuellar. 
'THIS CONFERENCE WAS A GREAT EXPE­
RIENCE BECAUSE IT GAVE THOSE OF US ENTERING MEDICINE SOME EXPOSURE TO BOTH THE POLICY PERSPECTIVE AND THE MORAL PERSPECTIVE OF MEDICINE.' 
ADRIAN CUELLAR 
Cuellar's response exempli­The format of the confer­fies the reactions of many ence allowed for a great deal undergraduate participants, of interaction between the 
Looking for a great job for your senior year; 
. s·· ········ . •·r::::;.,: .·The AI umn1-entor accepti'ng Baf'te,fld appffta  • rs now amd o.J.  
Apply today at the Student Activities Office (315 LaFortune). for  . ~ · · ..··•·•·•°  
the bestj  
Po  

OfbqJJ 

Coo~ 
ollts 

participants as they addressed various medical issues. 
On both Friday and Saturday, members of the audience broke up into small groups and later rejoined for a larger dis­cussion led by a panel of experts in a relevant aspect of ethics. Members from the auditorium were then encouraged to respond to the opinions of 
MEDICAL ETIIICS CONN!I/WVCE PARTICIPANT the panel. 
The Class of 2000 Council has a great year planned. The Class Council works to coodinate events and activities to enhance the social atmosphere of the University and of the Class. All interested members of the Class of 2000 are encouraged to Join. Applications for next year are available outside room 216 Lafortune. 

"One of the most inter­
esting aspects of this con­
ference is that the case 
studies are taken from 
participants' real cases; we 
don't use many 'set papers' of 
ethics to discuss issues," said 
academic director David 
Solomon. 
After an introductory lun­cheon on Friday, participants gathered in the auditorium of the CCE to begin debate on the status of health care since the collapse of Clinton's health care reform plans. 
The next session began with the keynote address of this year's conference, the J. Philip Clarke Family Lecture on Medical Ethics. 
This lecture was delivered by Judge John Noonan, Jr., judge of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth District. 
Speaking on the topic "The Judges Deal With Death," Noonan outlined three main criteria for upholding the Supreme Court's decision against the legalization of physician-assisted suicide. 
Giving examples from moral, cultural and religious fields, Noonan explained that the effects of legalized physi­cian-assisted suicide could have unfavorable conse­quences, particularly for the poor or elderly who could opt for suicide to avoid placing a burden on other family mem­bers. 
Countering the ways of pop­ular opinion, Noonan stated that the legalization of physi­cian-assisted suicide often centers around the relief of pain or loss of individual con­trol over one's life. He contin­ued that these issues are not central to the ethical ques­tions of legalized suicide because the court has upheld the right of physicians to pre­scribe medications for pre­vention of pain, even if has-


o,q 
~~ 
~~· 
~~ 

may result from the adminis­
tration of the medicine. 
According to Noonan, this 
act is ethical because death is 
not the intended outcome of 
prescribing the medicine. 
Noonan then concluded his 
remarks with several literary 
references and religious 
thoughts regarding suicide, 
stressing God's omnipresence 
in determining the course of 
one's life. A reception and 
dinner followed Noonan's 
speech, concluding the first 
day of the conference. 
Saturday's discussion began 
with the role of ethical com­
mittees in end-of-life deci­
sions. Father Mark Poorman, 
Ph.D., brought to the fore­
front of the discussion the 
idea that the role of ethics 
committees could perhaps be 
more successful if more com­
munication occurred between 
patients and physicians. 
All involved would then 
have a clearer understanding 
of events that can occur in a 
particular case, thus facilitat­
ing a more informed decision. 
The next two panel discus­sions concerned the role of the Supreme Court in physi­cian-assisted suicide, and particular moral dilemmas of Catholic hospitals. Varying opinions of participants and panelists were offered in these sessions. 
Participants then attended sessions entitled "Parish­Based Medicine," "The Principle of Double Effect: Is it Still Relevant?," and "Roe vs. Wade: Twenty-Five Years After." 
The conference concluded with the traditional round­table discussion on Sunday morning, where participants offered concluding remarks on the topics discussed throughout the conference. 
Over half of the physicians participating in this confer­ence, and several medical students in attendance, were alumni of Notre Dame. 
As the conference continues into the future, Solomon hopes that this alumni partic­ipation will contribute to a solid core of conference attendees, as well as the new participants who arrive each year. 
To help facilitate this inter­est, Solomon invites six to seven undergraduate partici­pants each year, noting that the physicians are receptive and interested in the ideas of the students. 
Next year's conference has been scheduled for March 19­21,1999. 
• SECURITY BEAT' .· ...•·.· 
BqON.1 MA~~H 16 2rooa.m. A S!i:lgffied Hallresldentwas transported by {lecurity to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of injuries sustained during a fall. 
S:43p.m. Se«<tity transported a Fisher Hall resident !o St. Joseph Medical Center fonreatment of an Illness. 
TUES., MARCH 17 3:30p.m. A FISCher Graduate resident WI;IS transported by Security to the lJniversity Heath Center for treatment of arii»ness. 
WED., MARCH 18 3:4$ a.m. Security transported an Alumni Hall resldenl tP SL Joseph Medical Center · for!reatment of lnjulroo sustained during a 
tau. 
12:49 p.m. APasquerilla East resident repoiied the lhett of her bll<e. 4:16p.m. A Dillon Hall resident was transported to St Joseph Healh Center for tretilment of a sports lnjucy. ....·.· 





VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, March 23, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bnan Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR H~arher MacKenzie 

NF.WS ElllTOR ................. Marrhew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ......................... Kris Klein VIEWI'OINT EDITOR ...................... Eddie Llull AD 0FSIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Karhlcen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE ElllTOR,...... .. ................ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klitsch CoNTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The t )hJ>c~r is the independem nt"Wspapcr published by rhe srudems of rhc Universicy ofNmrc Dame du Lac and SJ.illf M.uy's College. It does nm nc=cessarily reflect the policies of the adminismuinn ofeither institution. The news is repurtctl oa.s accuratdy and objc:ctivdy as pos.o.ible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the F.dnor-in-C:hief, Managing EJi1or, A~<>islanl Managing EJilOr and Jrpartment cdilOrs. Commentaries, letters and cnlumn.!. proem the views of1he .:authors, and nul ncces.:~arily 1ho~ ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of1he Notre D.une/Saim Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of v01rying opinions through lcncrs 1s encouraged.. 
Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 6,11-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editorifu.>istant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observc:r@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.ohsnews.1 @nd.edu 

• lOOKING FOR A HOMETOWN 

Mother Teresa Provides Example ofService 
Wn arn living in confused times. It seems as if there is a new sex scandal in the White llousn every day of the week. The gap between rich and poor has reached astonishing heights -with the 80th-percentile earner earning more than the 20th-percentile earner at a ratio of 4.6 to 1 in '96. The national poverty ratn that same year was at a disturbing 13.7 percent. Free agency has ravaged the great American past time. There is a Ku Klux Klan rally, of all things, in Elkhart on April 11. We've restructured a deeply flawed welfare system, but for­got to think about where the American underclass is supposed to find a replace­mnnt. Except for good, old fashioned hard work, of course. Problem is, that's not so easy to find in a culture that has recently made "corporate downsizing" a part of the national vocabulary. This is especially true when that same culture has seen a college education come to cost more than most people's homes 
=============;:=:=:=:=:=:=~ (which, incidentally, cannot be
easily purchased without a col­lege education.) To make mat­ters worse, this whole crazy 
Brandon 

game of American life is set to the rousing background music of the Spice Girls from across the Atlantic. I won't even mention
Williams 

the dark conspiracy that closed down South Bend's favorite fill­------=======:______ ing station. What is a bewil­
dered college student to do? 
Seriously, a lot of these issues are critical ones. As we pass into true adult­hood outside the luminescence of the Golden Dome, we have got to find some answers. I came across one. I think it might be worth checking out. "Find them. Love them." Find them and love them-all of them. That's the advice left to us by one of the greatest women of this century, if not all time. Her name was Mother Teresa. In a world beset by poverty, war and all kinds of human suffer­ing, I think that Mother Teresa came closer than just about anybody to figuring out one concrete, indisputable way that we can all make a difference and simul­
tanPously insert meaning into our own lives. That way is through service. Through helping others. Through trying our hardest to see Christ in everybody. It doesn't matter who you are. 
Whether you are a future business execu­tive. accountant, professor, lawyer, doctor, priest-whatever your future goals, there will undoubtedly be opportunities to incorpo­rate service into your life. Subsequently, there will undoubtedly be opportunities to make your life one that counts, one that makes a difference in the lives of others, one that means something. 

'yesterday is gone. 
Tomorrow has not yet come. We have only today. Let us begin.' 
Mother Theresa 
Now, it just so happens that we are having a Mother Teresa Memorial Service Week this week. The idea came about in a senate meeting. A few of' us senators got together with some other people around campus and did our best to put together six days of service in memory of Mother Teresa. There are 16 different South Bend service groups involved. A good number of you in the student body have already signed up to give a few hours this week to make South Bend a bet­ter place. Some of you have not. It's not too late. One can still sign up for the Saturday service projects with groups ranging from There Arc Children Here to Grace Community Center-all of which desperately need our help. If you are interested either e-mail me at Williams.147@nd.edu or call 4-1679. We would love to have you. Please consider it. Mother Teresa gave her whole lil'e to help­ing those in need. One Saturday to honor her life and what it stood for is the least we can do to thank her. In her words, "Yesterday is gone. Tomorrow has not yet come. We have only today. Let us begin." 
Let us. Besides, I hear that she and God are pretty tight-so it probably wouldn't be a good idea to get her mad. Hight? 
Brandon Williams is a junior history and philosophy major. His column runs every other Monday. Views expressed in this column are those of the author. and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
~Y. I ,..,. tvfU,,/Diel, IT 

fOI<TUNATEJ.:;: YOUR I?AI?I7Y
/../;:& tf!AL-· .. · J<JNI? OF a-

HA~ OU~A TAUNTFOR 
a;N. fXJ PeNIJSON~­

ATTRACTING THE~ BeST 
YOU 7J.I/NK 7H/3R /?AWY!; 57lJPeNT-A7H~ 70 tueU U'/5 flXJT!JA/.1-lliAM lH& COU-13(3&.1HeR& A Kff.ePSMNNI/16.toi'K371!rf;1 
"' 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"}feel like a million tonight -but one at a time." 
-Mae West 

~~~ -~~----­



VIEWPOINT
Monday, March 23, 1998 page 9 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Bengal Bouters Respond En Masse to Letter 
Captains: n.o 'Challenge' 

As I browsed through The Observer on Tuesday, March 17, l was very disheartened afterl.came upon a letter to the editor entitled "Strong Bodies Fight fo.r Warm Letter Jackets,'' written by one Mr. Paul Kessler. 
Many very bold statements were issued in his let~ ter, and though we initially wanted to ignore the claims Mr. Kessler made, we decided that too many outstanding young men have gone throu$hthisbox· ing program before us to l(lt Kessler's statements·· stand uncontested. We, as senior boxing captains, would like to address some of his allegations. 
Mr. Kessler, no one likes to be called a ''liar," and 1 am sure you didn't mean that when yousaid it. To say that all of Notre Dame's Bengal BO;ute:ts are is quite a blanket statement to make. The truth is; as captains and our teammates put a grettfdeal of work into our program. Notre Dame boxing is far more than doing over one million push-"ups. two mil·. lion sit-ups, and running almost 500 miles in a six­week period. Our primary goal -and this is no lie _,..,. is to raise money for the.Holy Gross missions in Bangladesh. This year we raised more th;:m $40,000, and I promise only those men who really have their .· hearts set on what they are doing are the ones who endure the six-week training period. We don't only train, we sell advertisements for our program, which we more than doubled thisyear compared, toJast year's total number ofal.i,s sold. Wit . . . ally .·.· spending time in our gym; itis impossi . to even comprehend all that goes on among us as members of a team. On several occasions priests fiom Bangladesh have come to visit us, and Father Bill Seetch is always expressing his gratitude; and his admiration for us boxerswho givesuc ru~t amount of time to a greatcati!l"l/ .. . .....·. . . . ...···•·· 
As for "aggression; glory, and picki omen,;'•. ··· am sorry if any of the members of the team may · · seem to you aggressive. arrogant, or less than hum~ ble, and I truly apologize on behalf of anyone who carries himself this way, especially if cap..; tains. are those you rna¥ ,havijl. ip rni ot( make this statement; but~hatfsnot are 
about. · · · Mr. Kessler, no matter what one does in life, if a job is done well there are always rewards, both material and spiritual. When a member of the ·· States armed services receives amedal he has done, it would be a rnocke · . what he. did merely for all1edal.·In material reward is that jacket, which . way, only few men get everyyear. But the spiritual reward· of camaraderie and friendship is something that even that letter jacket can't begin to symbolize, And whether you believe it or not. when · · down and talk about wbatwe'veae team this year, what we did in. the :r· noteveri mentioned. We raised $40,000! That is an amazing feat in itself. and without the help ofaboutone-hun­dred other young men itwwer even· ...• have been • possible. And for all ofyotJ.BengaJ ··who ticipated this year, weasseniQl' .. all of you on a job well done; Finally, I am sorry that you view · do as less-than-noble, but just because whatwe do leads to saving lives doesn't meaneveryon!) has to admire us for it. I guess if we were doing it for .·· · · • . ration, we'd be doing itfo:tthe . • . · Anyway.<as for your "challenge, • would be in any way fit to accept it, didn't carry the same cross we did for . . gru­eling workouts, venturing into town to sell ads. run­ning and getting in shape on our own, allon top of studying for classes: We d?n'teven · · ··. ·• is fit for you to even stand behipd such As senior captains, we l~ave out with our unending friendships and . number of fond memories. Our jackets, ·· fade and fall apart with time, but what • here at Notre Dame will last a lifetime and in our hearts. As for our teammates and fUture please allow us to offer you a valid while challenge. Keep this tradition · . Enjoy doing it, and remember that there many lives that depend on your integrity, work.t~thic and dedication. You all knowthat Winning ajacketis the least important thing youi coUld pOssibly \1()> but.••.••••..•. ·. ..•••··· should you win one, wear itwith pride ~ ~ badge ·· · · honor. You have more than earned it. But never for~ get why you are there. 


Many Reasons Exist for Boxing 
In 1931, Dominic J. "Nappy" Napolitano transformed the boxing pro­gram to benefit the missions in the former "Bengal" of India. Nappy stated that, "Strong bodies fight that weak bodies may be nourished." With no chil­dren himself, Nappy instead adopted count­less Notre Dame boxers, and devoted his life to the box­ing program. On Tuesday, Paul Kessler wrote a mis­guided article 
that mocked Nappy's honorable motto, and called him, and all fol­lowing boxers of 68 years, liars. No small charge, I write to restore our honor. 
I have traveled to India five times and have witnessed the mystery, joy and agony of another culture. The immense poverty has shocked me. Yet nothing has captured my soul and made me grow as much as the similarity in the human beings I met across the globe, who hope and dream just as I do. I have talked about my experiences with other boxers and one of our head coaches, Tom Suddes, who himself traveled to see what the Bengal Bouts proceeds have built. I have lis­tened as he and Father Bill Seetch have shared their first-hand experiences in Bangladesh over and over with us all. 
I have participated, as all boxers must, in donating countless hours to selling ads and tickets, asking for donations, putting up posters, designing apparel, writ­ing articles, and putting in any type of time to improve the program. I have watched Jack Mooney donate his time for the 50th year, and "Zimmy" approach his lOth. I have witnessed captains selflessly teaching novices, a former boxing president, John Christoforetti donate endless energy to help revamp the whole pro­gram, and a current president, Ryan Rans, give all his heart and soul, despite two broken hands. With these efforts, and the volunteer efforts of our lawyer, judge, pilot, law professor, and businessmen coaches we dou­bled our total of $20,000 from last year, and will con­tribute $40,000 to the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 
Yet Mr. Kessler claims that, "Bengal Bouts is about aggression, glory, and picking up women." Mr. Kessler is "tired of reading about the boxers acting as if they are doing some great charitable thing." Mr. Kessler apparently bases the majority of his claim on the fact that all finalists receive letter jackets. 
If Mr. Kessler's point is that we do not solely box for charity, then he is correct. There are many different reasons why we join and enjoy boxing. Some of us join because there are mountains to be met, others join out of curiosity, and others because we like to compete. Yet the driving force that unites us all is the amazing act of charity that we are performing in pushing ourselves to help others. 
Two years ago I was having the most hellish, demanding and confusing year of my life in law school. I joined boxing because I wanted to change my focus and push myself into the pain until I didn't care any­more. Boxing transformed my life. In boxing I met the greatest people. Egos were abandoned, smiles abound­ed and competitors helped competitors. Boxing does involve aggressiveness, but not total, raw aggression. The boxers become friends with each other, and sense­lessly beating up one another is simply not tolerated. Any good boxer cannot rely on aggression, he must outbox his opponent. 
When you box, and struggle, as we all do, you begin to question yourself, and face your fear that you are not good enough. As anyone knows, when you confront your deepest raw emotion, trivial goals simply do not suffice. When you struggle with pain-physical and mental -and try to push onward, goals such as "meeting more blondes," simply do not suffice (no offense to blondes). There is no doubt that the Notre Dame Boxing Club is so special because, no matter our differences, why we joined, and why we enjoy boxing, we have the greatest goal guiding us all: helping the missions in Bangladesh. 
So there is one material reward for a small minority of boxers in a jacket. Also, for one week the campus reads about the Bengal Bouts, and those of us that par­tici!)ate in it feel proud. Because of that, Mr. Kessler decided to rip apart what the Bengal Bouts are all about. He should not take away from all the good that comes from an incredible program. The majority of boxers will never get a letter jacket or glory. But what we learn in the boxing room is tremendous. We learn to put our pride in the process and not in the product. 
Anyone can make unfounded claims and criticize that which they do not fully understand. Also, anyone can attack a person who criticizes us. "Yet when the gloves came off, we unwrap our hands, and pick up our bags to leave, we all hope that we may have pushed our­selves to become better, and while boxing may end, that process has only just begun." Therefore, I instead invite Mr. Kessler to call me and learn more about the Bengal Bouts. Nappy would have wanted it that way. 
Jeevan "Jacketless & Womanless" Subbiah Assistant Rector, Keenan Hall Third-year law student March I 8, I 998 

Come and Try 
wri,tten fjyoaJS ofthe 
... . J.R. Melllrl 
:?~p91.)mme, Keenan 1-i:#l ·•··· ·March 17, 1998 

--~--­ ~­ 
page 10  VIEWPOIN'I'  Monday, March 23, 1998  

• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 


R.O.T.C. isn't a Blemish, it's Essential 
Students FroiD Top Schools Invaluable to Military 
"My eountry right or wrong.~ Tho oft-forgotten second part to this phrase is, "Stand behind it when it's right; try to change it when it's wrong." At least David McMahon in his piece "ROTC on Notre Dame's Campus: A Blemish" lWodnesday March 18, 1998) is not afraid to ruf­11e our patriotic feathers in an attempt to remind us that America is not perfect. For that I actually respect him. 
But McMahon's shrill condemnation of America's military history and of the military's ROTC presence at Notre Dame isn't even an objective, reasoned argument: it's a spasm. It focuses on the tactical­level exceptions to America's usually noble service in defense of the greatest expansion of democracy and prosperity in human history. McMahon's impulse to teach us about our sins (and, I would hope, to eorrect them} is so strong that he overlooks an important fact: name­ly, that just about every other nation with the capacity to project power beyond its borders also has a skeleton somewhere in its closet to show for it. I wonder if Mr. McMahon doesn't also see ''conquerors and barbarians" (as he calls us) when he contemplates the histories of Britain and Franco (imperialism), Germany (the Third Reich), Russia (Stalinism and Czarist expansionism), China (invasions of Tibet and Vietnam), Japan (the war in the Pacific), the Ottoman Empire (geno­cide against the Armenians) or Spain and Portugal (colonialism). Less powerful and advanced societies are no more immune from such bar­barism: Consider Hwanda, Liberia. and Kampuchea. McMahon would do well to consider that perhaps all cultures are capable of good and evil. He might become persuaded, as I am, that no nation in human history has ever possessed the power which America wields, and yet used it so benignly, very often !'or everyone's good. 
McMahon needs to know that it takes a special person to graduate from HOTC, OCS or a service academy and accept the challenge (only a year or even months out of college) of leading tired, scared, angry and sometimes not~so-oducated armed youngsters (or worse, people 15 years older than you) in desolate places under the worst of condi­tions. We just marked the 30th anniversary of the My Lai massacre; want to know why that massacre occurred, David? Because the United States Army was starved for the kind of intelligent but strong, moral but tough leadership that high-caliber Notre Dame cadets no doubt provide when they graduate. Instead, the platoon leader responsible for the massacre, Lieutenant William Calley {who really was a "brig­and") was promoted from the ranks at age 20 with little training and even less screening because he had one year of community college. The Army didn't have much better. Today it gets dozens of Notre Dame graduates a year. I wish it got 10 times as many. They're an honor to Notre Dame, not a blemish. My Lai is the stain and :inore such officers will help prevent its recurrence. 
I wonder how Mr. McMahon would explain the metamorphosis he must think I underwent when I, originating as he has from the mostly "law-abiding, peaceful and just folk" of America, joined the "goose­stepping march of killing machines" (that is, the Army ROTC) and then served in the Army among "international law breakers and vicious aggressors." For seven years I led privates and even met a few Generals and I saw nothing of the sort. 
I supervised a sergeant who won the Soldier's Medal for racing into a burning building in Germany to save an elderly German woman. I s1~rved with a Vietnam veteran warrant officer who wept as he told me of the Vietnamese orphan girl he and his wife hoped to adopt until the Vietcong massacred her entire orphanage. (Their crime? Allowing his unit to throw monthly balloon and ice cream parties for them.) My former ROTC classmate, a Black Hawk helicopter pilot in the Gulf War, told me of his anxiety over the ease with which his naive and relifwed troops chatted with captured Iraqi prisoners, offering them food and actually accepting their assurances that they needn't be searched for weapons because they already had been! Hardly the "international brigands" McMahon denounces. 
These comrades-in-arms knew better than McMahon of "the horror of war." But McMahon, as a protester, suffers from what one U.S. President described as a form of "moral snow-blindness." By staring too long at tho horror of war, he has become blinded to who's right, who's wrong, and why. His politically correct calculus omits the inconvenient fact of opponents like Saddam Hussein, who need only have surrendered his lll~gotten conquest to spare his own soldiers, but didn't out of sheer egotism. Instead, to McMahon, we're the villains. 
I wish David McMahon could think better of the human beings who watch his freedoms, stabilize regions from tho Balkans, to the Sinai, to East Asia. and defend dozens of nations. He says, "There comes a time to re-examine our values.~ I agree with him on that point and wish we would all reflect on the My Lai's and the Wounded Knee's; it might pr<>vent their recurrrmce. But it would also help if McMahon and his ilk would re-examine their own values, along with their logic and their scholarship. 
We should tolerate McMahon because he's right that we haven't always lived up to what our founders or our Savior demand. But it's awfully hard and not much use to listen to someone who derives more esteem from claiming some anti-patriotic, moral high ground than from getting behind America and actually righting its wrongs. 
Paul J. Bohr 
Second-Year Law Student 
March 20, 1998 
Editor's Note: Paul J. Bohr served seven years as an actilleMdutyArmy officer. 
Military Leaders Elected 
"I speak from experience." This was David McMahon's only attempt at presenting any authority to back up his often hard-to-decipher, historically revisionistir. and inaccurate remarks in his March 18 article. His statement of being at one time a "naive midshipmen" appears to be more accurate and still holds true -at least the naive part. 
The United States is a republic based on democratic ideals. Its leaders are, for thn most part, elected by the people. Both the President as the Commander-in-Chief (Artiele II, Section 2 of the U.S. Constitution) and Congress through financing and oversight (Articln I, Section 8) control the military. To get to the point that McMahon obviously missed, tlHJ mil­itary is controlled by civilians elected to office by people like you and me. The military is a tool used by these politicians to achieve a public objective when necessary. 
McMahon attempts to use two main examples of military actions to illustrate his point. The first is the Battle of Wounded Knee which took place during the "Indian Wars" of tlw middle and late 19th century. What happened at Wounded Knee happened at battles around the world during that time frame. Large, powerful nations scramble to acquinl new land and wealth. If the locals got in the way, they were removed. In the U.S., who ordered those attacks? The President and his Cabinet. Who funded them? Congress. What did the "people" say about this? Generally nothing. It was the "Age of Empire." That was just what was done at the time. Today we look at it and cringe, but that was not the mind­set at that time. One thing from that time though, still holds true. The military was, and still is, headed by civilians elected by the people and was, and still is, used as a tool to achieve a public objective. 
McMahon's second attempt to support his argument by actions in the Gulf War is also flawed. Between the accusation of the U.S. military using chemical and biological agents against its own members and going out of its way to bomb a supposed "air-raid shelter" (which just happened to be one of the main command, control, and communications facili­ties in Baghdad, and therefore a legal target under both LOAC and all of the Geneva Conventions. It was the government of Iraq that violated LOAC and the Geneva Conventions by placing civilians at a legal military target in order to protect it}, McMahon appears to say those at the mili­tary decided to start the war because they felt like it. Again, he offers no evidence to support his argument. Did I miss something when Iraq invaded and annexed Kuwait in August 1990? Did the U.S. send Hussein an invitation to invade? Could we all have been a bunch of brain­washed, sadistic freaks hell-bent on killing as many Iraqis as possible just because we wanted to? The answer to all three questions is no. Hussein invaded Kuwait to gain power, oil, and to rid himself of a huge debt owed to Kuwait from money lent to sup­port his eight-year war (which he started) with Iran. The U.S. govern­ment (yes, those civilian folks we elected to speak for us) did not invite him to do so (and neither did the Kuwaitis), but did respond by sending troops to neighboring countries upon request of those countries and under auspice of the U.N. The last question is obviously too ridiculous to answer with more than a "no." Once again I'll point to the fact that it was the civilians elected to office by the people, acting upon public objectives that sent the troops. What were these public objectives'? Liberating Kuwait from a wrongfully occupying force? Yes. "Freedom" and "justice?" Yes. Power, oil, and monetary considerations'? Yes-the American public is not willing to pay $3-4 per gallon of gas. 
McMahon's argument is not one based on Christian principles, but upon misundllrstood historical events and naivete. His statement of "Catholic traditions, for peace instead of war" would not stand up to the standard of review he is attmnpting to implement on the 
U.S. military. If that statement were a truism, explain to me the Crusades, thn Inquisition, and the Hundred Years War. Each was initiated or strongly supported by the Church. To be more precise, they were supported by leaders and members of the Church. Each was done in the name of God and produced horrors that have rarely been duplicated. My state­ments here are not meant to be an affront to the Church, but to show that McMahon's inaccurate and selective use of history in order to discredit the institution of the U.S. mili­tary (not to mention demeaning the sacrifices of the men and women that gave their lives to protect what we as a nation believe in-including free speech) would be akin to dis­crediting the Church in its entirety because of the three mentioned historical events. Neither application is proper and I refuse to stoop so low. 
The only thing which I agree with is that war is an ugly thing. It is not something I ever again wish to be part of or witness. But, if I am once again called by my country I will serve without hesitation. My beliefs and my country are worth fighting for. 
Scott A. Wood First-Year Law Student 
U.S. Air force Academy 1993 


I­

Monday, March 23, 1998 -------------------~OBSERVER--------------------------------page 11 
As Good As It Gets The Full Monty Good Will HuntingLA. Confidential Titanic 
Matt Damon-Good Will Hunting Robert-Duvall-The Apostles Peter Fonda-Uiee's Gold Dustin Hoffman-Wag the Dog Jack Nicholson-As Good As It Gets James Cameron-Titanic Peter Cattaneo-The Full MontyAtom Egoyan-The Sweet Hereafter Curtis Hanson-l.A. Confidential Gus Van Sant-Good Will Hunting 

Helena Bonham Carter-The Wings of the Dove Julie Christie-AfterglowJudi Dench-(Her Majesty) Mrs. Brown Heln Hunt-As Good As It Gets Kate Winslet-Titanic 
---------~------~--~----. 
Robert Forster-Jackie Brown Anthony Hopkins-AmistadGreg Kinnear-As Good As It Gets Burt Reynolds-Boogie Nights Robin Williams-Good Will Hunting 

And the Oscar rshouldJ 2oto ••• 
The Observer Editorial Board makes its Oscar predictions 
Heather Cocks Editor-in-Chief 
Best Picture -Titanic Best Actor :-·Peter Fonda B#s~J\ctref?.s •.••..•. Ju.~il}~t).~p .> ; .•. 
·····• •.... BestSupprirting $ctor•.. ~·J3~t<t0 ~eynol4s Best Supp~rting Actress • .i Gloria Stu~rt B(!stD1reetor ...,.... J~mes Camerqn• 
Heather MacKenzie Editor
Best Picture -Good Will Hunting Best Actor -Robert Duvall Best Actress -Kate Winslet Best Supporting Actor -Robert Forster Best Supporting Actress -Minnie Driver Best Director -James Cameron 

Kathleen Lopez Sports Editor 
Best Picture -Good Will Hunting 


Best Actor -Matt Damon Best Actress -Helen Hunt Best Supporting Actor -Robin Williams Best Supporting Actress -Julianne Moore Best Director·-James Cameron 
Shannon RyanBest Picture -L.A. Confidentia] Saint · · Editor 
Best Actor -Jack Nicholson Best Actress -Helen· Hun.t Best Supporting Actor ·-:-Robert Forster Best Supporting Actress -~innie Driver Best Director -James Cameron 

Kristi Klitsch Scene Editor 


Best Picture -Titanic Best Actor -Matt Damon Best Actress -Kate Winslet BestSuppotting Actor -Anthony Hopkins BestSupporting Actress -Kim Basinger Best Director . ...;;. James Cameron BestSupportingActor-Robin Williams Best Supporting Actress -Kim Basinger Best Director---James Homer 





J(evin Dalum Photo Editor 
Best A<:t~1. .> . ···.·. t~ Winslet Best Supporting Actor ---Robin Williams BestSuppor,fiilg Actress -Kim Basinger Best Direct6rr·•·····•Jal1les Cameron 




0
page 12 ------------------~OBSERVER -----------------Monday, March 23, 1998 
199 



-------, 





TJ.e Os«:ars: 
By CHRISTIAN. 
Scene Movie Critic 


Yesterday and Today 
T
onight, b brates th gious aceBy DAN CICHALSKI to do so -not counting -but the winners were able 80 years and 69 days. Jessica As alwa)Senior Stafl'Wrirer "Midnight Cowboy" in 1970 -to trade the plaster awards for Tandy then won Best Actress 

I 
until "Dances With Wolves" metal ones three years later. in 1990 for "Driving Miss t seems hard to believe triumphed in 1991. Clint In 1945, Bing Crosby beat Daisy" two months before her that what is now the Eastwood's "Unforgiven" then "Going My Way" co-star Barry 81 st birthday. Gloria Stuart, biggest movie night of the won the award two years Fitzgerald in the Best Actor nominated for Best year once received less later. category. But Fitzgerald took Supporting Actress for her attention than an airplane The categories expanded in home Best Supporting Actor role in "Titanic" as the flight. But. as with most of our 1937 with the introduction of for the same role. Voting rules old Rose, is 87. grand traditions, the Academy the supporting actor and now prohibit actors being Like the 1954-60 Awards started out small and actress categories -won by nominated in two categories has mutated into a gala event Walter Brennan in "Come and for the same role, so to which a guest's choice of Get It" and Gale Sondergaard Fitzgerald remains the only clothing could be joke material in "Anthony Adverso." That performer to have that distinc­for tho next year. year was also the first Best tion. 
In your preparation for Actress award for Luise The first Oscar telecast tonight's 70th Annual Hainer and her performance came in 1953 and grabbed the Academy Awards, here's a in "The Great Ziegfeld." In biggest single audience in the rundown on Oscar's history, 1938, she won again for "The live-year history of commer­found with the high-tech, lit­Good Earth" and became both cial television. It was not until tle-dfort research method of the first performer to win two 1966 that the show aired in the 90s -various Internet Academy Awards, and the color. sites. first to do it in consecutive Frank Sinatra resurrected 
When MGM Studios' Louis B. years. his career in 1954 by winning Mayer carne up with the idea In 1939, Shirley Temple Best Supporting Actor for for tlw Academy of Motion made a special presentation to "From Here To Eternity," Picture Arts and Sciences and Walt Disney for "Snow White which won eight Oscars to tie its film awards, Oscar night and tho Seven Dwarfs": One "Gone With the Wind" for the was a dinner party attended big Oscar and seven little most to that time. The next by 270 guests li>r the pmsen­ones. Disney still reigns as the year, "On The Waterfront" fol­tation of 14 awards for movies Oscar King, having won 26 lowed up with eight of its own, that canw out in 1927-28. naked golden men. but two movies in 1959 and Morn people celebrated the Naturally, there are some 1960 would knock those three news of Charles Lindbergh's years where great films are from the top. "Gigi" won nine solo flight from New York to not recognized with Oscars in 1959 and "Ben Hur" took France in I927 than paid because they face equal or home 11 of its 12 nominations altnntion to that first awards better competition. In 1940, the next year. In 1967, "Who's dinrwr, held May I(J, 1929. the live Best Picture nominees Afraid of Virginia Woolf?" was 
Tlw first Best Picture winner nominated in 13 was "Wings," a 1927 World categories, win­War I air-combat epic. ning five. Nothing by today's standards, The 1968 cer­"7th !leaven" turned out to be emony was the big winner. winning for postponed for writing-adaption (Benjamin two days afer Glaztlr}, directing (Frank the assassination Borzage} and actress (Janet of Martin Luther Gaynor}. And although the King Jr. in famous statuette given to the Memphis and the winners was introduced, the riots that broke "Osear" nickname was not out as a result. where films like applied until 1933. The The next year, "From Here To Academy credits librarian Katharine Eternity," "On The Margaret llerriek with naming Hepburn ("The Waterfront," tho little gold statuette. Lion In Winter") "Gigi," "Ben Hur" 
At the next ceremony two and Barbra and "Who's Afraid years later, "The Broadway Streisand ("Funny of Virginia Woolf?" Melody" won Best Picture, and Girl") became the racked up double­became the first "talkie" to only pair to tie for digit nominations take the award. Mary Pickford an award, win­and won more than -a former silent film star ning Best Actress. half, in 1993, who made the transition to Hepburn holds "Schindler's List" sound pietures successfully -the record with won eight awards, won Best Actress for were "The Wizard of Oz," four Best Actress wins and 12 "Forrest Gump" fol­"Coquette," but most actors "Ninotchka," "Stagecoach," career nominations. lowed in 1994 win­and actresses from the silent "Mr. Smith Goes to Jack Nicholson, up for Best ning six of 13 nomi­g1mre could not adjust to the Washington" and "Gone With Actor this year for his role in nations -ineluding nnw wave of' film-making. the Wind." With the building "As Good As It Gets," received Tom Hanks' second 
At first, only a handful of suspense, the Los Angeles his first nomination in 1970 straight Best Actor judgns selectml th1~ winners in press could not hold out until for Best Supporting Actor in award. Last year, thn f'nw categories each year, the actual ceremony, where "Easy Rider." lie's received "The English Patient" but at llw third ceremony "Gone With the Wind" three more in that category, won in nine of the 12 (!wid in Novnrnber 19:~0. eight grabbed eight awards, includ­winning in 1984 for "Terms of categories in which it months after the second ing Best Picture. Endearment." His only other received nominations. awards) all tlw members of Following the Japanese Oscar came in 1976 for "One This year, "Titanic" tlw tlw Academy -more than attack on Pearl Harbor in Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," left port with 14 nomina­400 -cast their votes. By that December 1941, the Oscars in but he's now got seven nomi­tions -everything from ynar, the popularity of the spring 1942 were first can­nations for Best Actor. Best Picture to Best On­ovent rose to the point whem celled, then reinstated without Another record could fall Set Catering -and may nwmb11rs shelled out $10 for a searchlights beaming outside, this year. In 1976, George solidify itself as one of the l.i!'knt to tlw ceremony and it formal attire or a banquet. In Burns became the oldest per­greatest films ever if it can sold out. 1943 the metal for the statues former to win an Academy add the majority of those to 
In 1932, "Cimarron" became went toward bullets and Award taking Best its legend. the first western to win Best bombs, so Oscar was made Supporting Actor for "The Picture, and was the only one out of plaster for three years Sunshine Boys" at the age of 



-
6
Monday, March 23, 1998 --------------~OBSERVER ---------------------------------------------pagel3 



ADEMY 


TLe Best of tLe Best 
may actually end up as an Academy Award winner. 
A return to the film-noir style of the 19 30s and '40s seems the goal of "L.A. Confidential." Here again is a film with a fabu­lous cast, most notably the three police officers and the leading lady., 
Kevin Spacey, as Jack Vincennes, brings the same quality performance that made "The Usual Suspects" (1995) so inter­esting, but here he receives assistance from Russell Crowe, playing Wendell "Bud" White, and Guy Pearce, playing Edmund Exley. 
The three police officers all work the same case, but from dif­ferent angles, allowing for an intricate story. The audience watches as the officers crack down on corruption in the city of Los Angeles. Their path runs through the home of Lynn Bracken, a high-priced prostitute played by Kim Basinger. Basinger revives her career with this gritty role as she sorts through ties to love and business. Look for her as a possible winner in the Best Supporting Actress category. 
"L.A. Confidential" directed by Curtis Hanson should be con­sidered as a dark horse in the running. This is a quality film with wonderful performances. made even more interesting by its unique story construction. This film could shock the crowd tonight with an upset victory. 
Finally, the film that has received more hype than any film in recent history is the project of director James Cameron, "Titanic." If you have not heard of this film, then you are the one resting at the bottom of the North Atlantic. A film that spent hundreds of millions and proved it can earn hundreds of millions, "Titanic" has led the box office for numerous weeks. Recently topping "Star Wars" as the all-time money maker, it is the cult film of the 1990s. 
The film deserves attention, but needs to be looked at with a critical eye. Those who have seen "A Night To Remember" 

photo courtesey New Regency 

Danny DeVito (left) and Kevin Spacey (right) in "L.A. Confidential." 
(1942) will understand this reviewer's apprehension. If you have not seen the older film, do so and be amazed, excluding story line necessities, how similar the films are. 
Watch for director James Cameron, a director reportedly willing to give up any financial gain merely to finish his project, to receive notice tonight. 
The actors also present a beautiful love story enveloped by one of the worst tragedies of the 20th century. Gloria Stuart as Rose Dawson Calvert, should receive attention. Kate Winslet, 

-
-
photo courtesy Miramax 

Matt Damon (left) and Robin Williams (right) in "Good Will Hunting." 
as Rose DeWitt Bukater, is also excellent in this strong female role. The film is still a front runner for Best Picture, but is it to 
the level of such recent winners as "The English Patient" 
-

(1996), "Braveheart" (1995). or "Forrest Gump" (1994)? 
The answer will not be revealed until late tonight after an evening of fashion, fame and glory as Hollywood celebrates the films of the past year. 
PIERCE 
.,•.1111.111g at 8 p.m. on ABC, Hollywood cele­ous Academy Awards, the most presti­given in the film industry. five nominees have been selected for Best and this year's theme seems to be the big budget Hollywood production. "As as it Gets," "The Full Monty," "Good Will Hunting," "LA Confidential," and "Titanic" have all received nominations. All live films arc well deserving of the nomina­tion, but only one film can win. "As Good As It Gets," is a film revolving around indi­vidual perfor­mances. The plot although well 
ed, misses 
that special some­

thing that moves a view­er. 
Jack Nicholson steals the show as Melvin Udall, an obsess ivc-com pu lsi ve author attempting to deal with love. The role allows 
British film "The Full Monty" The Academy rarely gives out Best
Nicholson to "push the 
envelope" of public decen­cy, saying things many of us would not dream of \hinking. Watch for Nicholson as a serious contender for Best Actor, who along with his co-stars puts forth an incredible performance. Helen Hunt and Greg Kinnear com­pliment Nicholson beautifully and ele-
Photo courtesey Paramount Pictures and Twentieth Century Fox 
Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet in "Titanic." 
neighbor, a gay painter named Simon. It is a magical perfor­
mance by a celebrity who, until now, had not shown much 
promise as a dramatic actor. "As Good As It Gets" deserves its nomination for these indi­vidual performances alone, but do not expect much more than that. The film has its problems with the most notable being the objectification of the female lead. A splendid film nonetheless, look for Nicholson to win in his category. 
The British film "The Full Monty" is the only foreign film nominated this year. A fabulous comedy about the economic situation in Britain, the film's dry humor stands out as a strong point. Director Peter Catteneo is new to the feature-length film, but constructed a beautiful piece on his first attempt. 
"The Full Monty" revolves around a group of men out of work due to the down-sizing of the steel industry in Sheffield, England. The men, led by the ingenious thinker Gaz, played by Robert Carlyle (known for his role as Begbie in "Trainspotting"), decide to earn money by stripping. What separates them from acts like the Chippendale's dancers seems their 
photo courtesy Channel Four Films Willingness to go for the "full monty." 

Picture Awards to foreign films so don't expect "The Full Monty" to win Best Picture. 
It is a rare occasion when two regular guys write a screen­play and get it made into a film, but Matt Damon and Ben Affieck have done just that. Most people agree that the story they wrote and what appeared in "Good Will Hunting" differ greatly, but it still makes for an excellent publicity stunt. 
The film centers around Will Hunting, a janitor at MIT played by Matt Damon. This kid possesses some­thing that his friends from the south side of Boston lack, a real knack for mathematics. Will appears to be a product of his situation, an orphaned child who struggled to earn respect in a rough neighborhood. 
Upon solving a difficult equation, Will receives notice from Professor Lambeau, played by Stellan Skarsgard, but the young man's attitude toward authority seems a dis­traction. This leads to counseling by Sean McGuire, a psychiatrist played by Robin Williams. 
The performance by Williams will shock photocourtesySonyPictures most viewers as he puts aside his wild 
Jack Nicholson in "As Good as it Gets." humor to mold a truly believable character. 

vate their acting style above any of their previous roles. Hunt, who is nominated for Best Actress, plays Carol, a waitress with a special place in Melvin's heart. 
Kinnear, nominated for Best Supporting Actor, plays Melvin's 
Williams has a good shot at coming away with the Best Supporting Actor Award, if he can edge out Sir Anthony Hopkins in "Amistad." 
"Good Will Hunting" also includes memorable performances by Ben Affieck as Chuckie, Will's best friend, and Minnie Driver as Skylar, a student at Harvard and Will's love interest. This film has a shot at being crowned the best in the land as does its director Gus Van Sant. What started as a college screenplay, 
~--_..--------------~-~---~----~---------­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 23, 1998
-
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 
Heggie Miller scored 32 points and Hik Smits converted a key thn~e-point play in overtime as tlw Indiana Pacers defeated the reeling Milwaukee Bucks 96-94 Sunday. 
Hay Allnn led Milwaukee with 25 points and Michael Curry added a carr.er-high 21. but the Bucks lost their ninth straight and their 12th in thr.ir last 13. 
Mark .Jackson scored 16 points and Smits had 15 points and seven rebounds as Indiana maintained its hold on the sec­ond-best record in the Eastern Conference. Indiana, which never led in regulation. won its third straight and ninth in the last 12. 
.Jackson hit a 3-pointer to open the overtime pel"iod, but Milwaukee stayed dose and tied it at 89 on Elliot Perry's jumper with 33.2 seconds left. 
After a time out, Chris Mullin inbounded the ball to Jackson, who backed down on Allen and then hit Smits with a perfect pass as the Pacers center cut to the basket. 
Smits split the defenders and dunked to make it 91-89. lie was fouled by Armon Gilliam and converted the three-point play. 
Thn Bucks turned the ball over as Jerald Honeycutt couldn't handle Michael Curry's inbound pass. The Bucks imme­diately fouled Miller, who made 


Indiana's Reggie Miller scored 32 points in his team's overtime defeat of the Milwaukee Bucks, 96-94. 
two free throws. points. 
Allen answered with a 3-The Bucks, who led by as pointer and then the Bucks many as 10 early in the third, fouled Jalen Hose, but he made missed a chance late in regula­two free throws before Curry tion to snap their longest losing made two for the Bucks' final streak of the season. 
Blue Devils squander lead 
Associated Press 

ST. PETEHSBUHG. Fla. 
Just like 1992, Kentucky erased a big second-half lnad in its NCAA regional final against Duke. Only this time, the Wildcats erased the memory, too. 
The Wildcats. haunted for six years for losing perhaps the greatest college game ever played to Duke, rallied from an 18­point deficit to beat the top-seeded Blue Devils 86-84 Sunday in the South Hcgional final. 
Just like six years ago in Philadnlphia, Duke (32-4) trailnd in the final seconds and had a chance to win it with a buzzer-bnat­er. But freshman William Avery couldn't replicate Christian Laettner's shot-heard-round-the-world jumper that ended Duke's 104-103 victory that year, missing a running 30-footnr off the backboard as time expired. 
Kentucky (33-4), the No. 2 seed, plays Stanford in the Final Four on Saturday in San Antonio. A win would send the Wildcats to their third consecutive national championship game, this time against either Utah or North Carolina, but thnir first under new coach Tubby Smith. 
The hottest team in college basketball with 11 consecutive­victories, the Wildcats fell behind by 18 points -38-20 -after a 17-0 Duke run and trailed 69-52 with just over 10 minutes left. 
But the Wildcats then started doing everything they hadn't until that point -making their outside shots. denying Duke at the defensive end and limiting the Blue Devils to just one shot. 
Wayne Turner, outplayed badly by Duke's gritty Stnve Wojciechowski in the first half, led the comeback, scoring 11 of his 16 points in the second half. Jeff Sheppard had 18 points and nine rebounds and Scott Padgett had 12 points. including the biggest 'Cat basket, a go-ahead 3-pointer from well b1~yond the arc that broke an 81-all tie with 40 seconds to play. 
Cameron Mills's 3-pointer with 2:15 to play had given Kentucky its first lead at 80-79. 
Duke, led by Hoshown McLeod's 19 points and Trajan Langdon's 18, scored only 13 points in the final 9:38 after Carrawell's putback had made it 71-54. 
But the Wildcats, with Turner repeatedly setting up open shots with his penetration, went on a 17-1 run keyed by 3­pointers from Padgett, Heshimu Evans and Allen Edwards to pull to within 72-71. 
Duke twice had chances to tie it or go ahnad after Padgett's 3­pointer from beyond the top of the key, but McLeod missed a jumper with 17 seconds remaining and Turner followed by making one of two free throws. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Not~e Dame office, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. w 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sificds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
~-N_o__T_Ic_E_s__~l  ~~--~--~_N_T_E_o__~  EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOYMENT-Discover how to teach basic conver­ ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595  PERSONAL  Poetry on an airsick bag! Chris Fratel is my favorite  
Advertising Sales  sational English in Prague,  Hey -did you know ...  person in the whole wide  
Internships  Budapest & Krakow.  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM  world.  
••• Attention Sophomore  University Directories is hir­ Competitive wages + bene­ HOMES NORTH OF ND  We're open early, late, and  
Accounting Majors***  ing students to sell yellow  fits. Seasonal/year-round  GOOD AREA 2773097  weekendsforyourconve­ Everybody gets some Iovin'  
Looking for a job for  page advertising for the offi­ positions. For more infor­ nience!  
next school year?  cial campus telephone  mation:  8 BEDROOM HOME  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  Room 271 likes to play  
...  Position available at the Morrissey Loan Fund.  directory this summer. Commission based pay  ( 517)336-0640 ext. K55841  2773097  LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY  games with dice and cards and cups.  
Call Deb at 1-6616 for  structure. Training program.  SMC student seeks tutor  FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH  
information.  Excellent sales & marketing  for Bus.Stats class, if inter­ OAKHILL CONDO, AVAIL­ ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies  Take me back to the days  
experience. Call1-800-743­ ested call 284-5048 ASAP  ABLE AUG. 1ST. CALL OR  and babbling brooks in  of the Shadypiper.  
5556 Ext. 143 or visit  LEAVE A MESSAGE  summer. Snuggles, skisuits  
EDUCmajor taking NCTE  www .universitydirectories.c om  FOR RENT  .I  (219)272-291 0.  and a toasty fireplace in winter. Love and joy for  My ear hurts.  
tests at Purdue or wanna  your baby all year long.  Hey Ref! How about calling  
- visit friends?Free ride  Happy, caring professional  a jump ball  
Leave campus3/27  couple would love to pro­ 
Return3/28 x1571-RA  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT:  vide a newborn with love,  Just another day at KFC.  
ART EDUCATION ASSIS­ SPACIOUS 1BR CONDO  joy and security. Call Ed  
TANT  walk to campus  and Ellen at 1-800-484­ 
SNITE ART MUSEUM  Call Dianne Killelea  7011 Pin #4523  Hutch- 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY,  Assist Education Curator  272-5444  It was so great to see your  
LATE,  with summer youth art pro­ $4 for a Frullati?  smiling face on campus.  I  
AND WEEKENDS!!!  gram focusing on museum  Desktop computer Acer  wish that it was more often  
Mon -Thur  7:30am ­ objects and related hands­ IBM PC, windows 95,  The spirit of West Texas is  than once a semester.  If  
Midnight  on activities. June 2nd to  microsoft office 97, ethernet  Maury Povich.  that is all I get then I guess  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  July 31st. 10-20 hours per  card. 4-0930  I can live with that.  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  week. Fine Arts major with  How about that Lubbock  
Sun  Noon -Midnight  exp. teaching and/or work­ Twin size bed.  Perfect con­ Collisseum.  Talk about  
CALL 631-COPY  ing with children preferred.  Will your housemates be  dition.  Only $45.  Call 247­ classy!  Did I mention Chris Fratel is  
ILOST & FOUND I  (June 15 to July 31st, addi­tional Work Study hours -if eligible-with National Youth  abroad for a semester of '98? If you are living off­campus and need a 1st  0668 or email smontufa@ darwin.cc.nd.ed u.  It wasn't a steak! It was a stinkin' HAMBURGER with  great yet? Frosty and his evil sidekick.  
Sports Program to make a  semester only housemate  a piece of bacon wrapped  
FOUND: CROSS PEN BY  total of 40 hours per week if  call 284-4450  TICKETS  around it.  Actually, Frosty has been  
GRACE HALL.  desired, PLUS room and  flying solo lately.  I'm wor­ 
CALL LAURA 1-6967.  board included June 23 to  College Park condo for sub­ We couldn't give this  ried.  
Aug. 1)  lets this summer.  Call  For Sale  money away!  
LOST: Texas baseball cap  CALL education curator  Christina or Courtney at  Brooks & Dunn 1st three  Tonight, we ride!!!  
in Hesburgh center Feb. 26.  Sherrie Gauley, 631-4435,  273-0458.  Price nego­ rows  
Sentimental value.  Jim @  ASAP.  tiable.  Center State -$30  Did you order this?  I love the end!  
4-0608  App. deadline 4/06/98  272-7233  


Monday, March 23, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS 
• NCAA TOURNAMENT 
Missed free throws haunt Rams 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Down six with less than a minute to go, Stanford seemed beaten. merely the latest NCAA tournament victim of oppor­tunistic Rhode Island. 
"To be honest, it looked like we were going to lose,"' Cardinal forward Mark Madsen said. "And then Arthur Lee started making plays." 
It was time for Lee, the little guy on an otherwise huge Stanford team, to carry the Cardinal to the Final Four for the first time in five decades. 
"We needed something to happen," Lee said Sunday after scoring 13 of his 26 points in the final 2:04 and making a key steal as Stanford won the Midwest Regional 79-77. 
"I decided in the last minute that we just had to get it done. We had no other choice." 
Rhode Island, the eighth seed, unraveled late but still had a chance with five seconds left. However. Tyson Wheeler missed three straight free throws that could have made it 77-77. He had been fouled on a 3-pointer by Lee. 
"You have to understand, our heart was cut out before that," Rhode Island coach Jim Ilarrick said. "To ask him to step up there in that moment, when the needle is already in the balloon ... he had no zip left." 
Rams players and coaches were upset that Lee put his hands to his throat in the choke sign after Wheeler's second miss. 
"I was at midcourt," Lee said. "I didn't make him miss." 
Lee's moment of poor sports­manship was the only blemish on his almost flawless perfor­mance down the stretch. And after carrying the Cardinal. the (>-foot point guard earned a ride around the Kiel Center as his teammates hoisted him upon their shoulders. 
Lee, who had been unfavor­ably -and, perhaps, unjustly -compared to former Stanford star Brevin Knight, was named the region's MVP for taking the third-seeded Cardinal where Knight never did. 
Stanford (30-4), which last reached the Final Four in its championship season of 1942, will meet Kentucky on Saturday at San Antonio. 
The Rams' loss brought a crushing end to Barrick's sea­son. 
Barrick, who won a national title at UCLA in 1995 but was dismissed in disgrace for recruiting violations the follow­ing year, had taken Rhode Island to the threshold of the Final Four in his first season there. 
"We had a phenomenal year," said Barrick, whose Rams (25­
9) upset top seed Kans_as in the second round. "It's a shame we had to lose in the manner that we lost." 
Rhode Island built a 60-49 lead and was still up 71-65 after Cuttino Mobley hit two free throws with 59.3 seconds left. 
A three-point play by Lee cut Stanford's deficit to 74-73. Mobley caught the inbound pass but had the ball stripped by Lee; the ball went directly to Mark Madsen, who dunked, was fouled, and hit the free throw to put Stanford ahead. 
The Rams felt Lee fouled Mobley on the play. "He pushed my elbow," Mobley said. "They hit his arm," Barrick said. "I heard it." 
Lee disagreed: "If it hap­pened, I would say it. What are they going to do, take the Final Four away? But I didn't. I tipped the ball out of his hand." 
After a Rhode Island turnover, Kris Weems hit a free throw to put Stanford up 77-7 4 before Lee's foul gave Wheeler his three free throws. 

A 66 percent free throw shooter, Wheeler was well short on his first two tries before missing the third on pur­pose. 
The rebound went out of bounds to Stanford, which inbounded to Lee. He was fouled and made both shots with 4.2 seconds left. He is 26­for-26 from the line in the tour­nament. 
Mobley hit a meaningless 3­pointer at the buzzer and then stood on the court, hunched over, as Stanford players and coaches celebrated all around him. 
''I'm very upset," Mobley said. "If you lose in the Elite Eight and you know you should have won, how would you feel? It's just ridiculous." 
Wheeler scored 24 points and Mobley 20 for Rhode Island, still seeking its first Final Four appearance. 
The Rams did a great job against the much taller Cardinal players. With 7 -foot-1 Tim Young and the 6-8 Madsen neutralized most of the game, it fell upon Lee to take over. And that's just what he did in the final 2:04. 
Lee drove for a double-pump layup, made two 3-pointers defenders draped all over him and fed Madsen for a layup to make it 72-70 with 40.7 sec­onds left. 
After two free throws by the Rams' Preston Murphy, Lee for a layup, was fouled by Luther Clay and hit the foul shot to make it a one-point game and set up the exciting finish. 
"I felt no pressure whatsoever because I knew I just had to be Arthur Lee," Lee said of the comparisons to Knight. "I loveBrevin. He was a great player who helped me a lot. But I've been doing a lot of things pretty good." 
~WHEN: MONDAY. MARCH 23. 1998 TIME: 4:00P.M. 

WHERE: THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AUDil"ORIUM 
-REFRESHMENTS AND THE OPPORTUNITY FOR FURTHER­CONVERSATION Will IMMEDIATELY FOllOW 
SPONSORED BY THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DIVERSITY PROGRAM 

page 15 

• SAINT MARY's TENNIS 
Netters silence 

Defiance in opener 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's tennis team (3-3) played its first home match against Defiance, Saturday afternoon. 
The women completely dominated Defiance, crushing the opponents with a final match score 9-0. 
Defiance only took a total of five combined games from the Belles. Assistant coach of the Belles, Robin Hrycko, who guides the team during the absence of Head Coach Katie Cromer, was very pleased with the outcome. 
"Defiance was a very inexperienced team," said Hrycko. "The match was very quick and we used it more as a practice to work on our mental focus during games. All of the girls went out extremely focused and did what they had to do." 
Hrycko continued to say that she thought the match was a great way to get geared up for the rest of the season. 
Brycko also said that this match would be the only time that winning would come with such ease, as the upcoming sched­ule promises a challenge for the Belles. 
Junior Krista Eastburn, holding the number five singles spot on the team, was also pleased with the team's performance. 
"I think it's good that we got a win from the start," com­mented Eastburn. "It's a great way for us to start the season and get pumped up and looking forward to upcoming match­es. We're just going to take them one at a time," said Eastburn. 
The Belles look towards Thursday as they travel to Wheaton College for their next match. 

CITY STAFFING 
Temporary and Permanent Placement 
312-346-3400 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 630, Chica IL 60602 
-PlEASE JOIN US FOR A PRESENTATION 

DIVERSITY ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES: A PLURALISTIC APPROACH 
NOTABLE AUTHOR, EDUCATOR, AND DIVERSITY FACILITATOR ANDY EVANS TAKES A "REALISTIC, "liGHT-HEARTED" lOOK AT THE ISSUES AND CHAllENGES OF PRACTICING INCLUSIVITY, AND OFFERS DIVERSITY­RELATED BEST PRACTICES AT OTHER COllEGE CAMPUSES ACROSS AMERICA. 
... 


.------------~-------~~--~~ 
pagel6 Monday, March 23, 19')o
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 



~QQQQQQ ....-.-: 



~}:-_.~
Ifyou believe UNIVERSITY= ::;;
.. 
-
a UNIon ofdiVERSITY 
~· 
' 

Then come to an informational ' meeting about joining the ~ 

MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE 
~ 
,~,...~

COUNCIL 
W1NP
. .b-"i~ 
{T 


. 
. ~


"¥ 

' 
b~!_.d . 
.
~· 

_0' 
,.~· _.11 

~ 
~· ~_:-/ 

~-•, 
. 


' 
. 
. 

. 

~ ~ 
r~.~ Stop gripin~ and be a part of the Solution! ,~__•., ~~-Fnday, March 27th -4:30 p.m. \"!fJ'. #-.~ 102 LaFortune (Dooley Room) #.~ ,~-FREE BUFFET DINNER! 'Y. 

~--"" 4L.:
,~-'Y. ~--"' All Students are Welcome #._.,.
\~------------------------------------------,~­
~ ~ 
4f.__--~,.-For every difference that makes us unique, 1..._.··._';;.,__ 
\~· there is a common thread which connects us all. \~­~~-·.'.A\ We share the need for home and community, for love and ,AI!~~"' ~~-respect. May these common threads form a beautiful world ~­
~:"" in which all people and all cultures are honored. ~~--"" \~·--Hallmark ~­

, ' 

Insight 
continued from page 24 

one of the most difficult rebuild­ing challenges in the country. Five seniors from last year's 31-7 squad were lost to graduation, including Beth Morgan and Katryna Gaither Senior Mollie Peirick was left in a daunting role as the sole remaining starter on a team with only four letter­winners returning. 
While the recruiting class for the upcoming season had a great deal of talent, with freshmen like Ruth Riley and Kelly Siemon, the newcomers were untested in the environment of college basket­ball. Moreover, as the 1997-98 campaign approached, many critics stated that the Irish would not come close to achieving last 
-~--------------------_...-----~-~-----­
Monday, lyiarch 23, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS 
He /ell in love with the isla~?i~1 mos~... keauti{ul wd~an. But he didn't stand a chance, u~tlla g;;~~poet, Pablo Neruda, gave him the courage and th~words to «!In her heart. 
:::::;:;, 
year's miraculous run. In fact, Notre Dame was not ranked in any preseason top 25 poll. 
But the Irish did not listen or believe in the critics. Instead, they believed in themselves. 
Through a concerted effort, the team fought their way back to postseason contention. After los­ing more than 70 percent of the previous season's offense, the newcomers stepped up to meet the demands placed on them. 
However, it was when the postseason began that the sparks began to fly. After soundly defeating Southwest Missouri State in the first round , Notre Dame silenced their critics by knocking off top-seeded Texas Tech on their own home court. 
The upset sent shockwaves throughout the country, prompt­ing experts to question whether they had underestimated the 

~------------------------------L___~Af~ter Riley fouled out, Purdue

IT -~ -~ 

Throw Your Money Away On Poor-Oualitv Cooies 
~ C u~ ~ ~ X ~ 
o ce .,... 
...... ~­
0. ~ 
U
• =oc~ 
.b! 
~ ·~ ~ ·~ ~ ~ ~=~ 
0 ·~ 
I 
us~ "0 -~ 
~j~ 
~ ~
. 
~oc~ v;'J .s ~ 
..C-o 
.~= 
:I::~ 

Irish. With that one win, Notre Dame showed they were not ready to fade into obscurity after a season in the limelight. Instead, they were ready to take the next step, and join the elite of women's college basketball pro­grams. 
This season is a testament to McGraw's ability to take a rebuilding year and turn it into one of the most successful sea­sons in the country. 
It will be a difficult challenge for next year's team -which will be led by three current juniors -to repeat the success of previous seasons. However, with the talent that has been shown during this season's tour­nament and the regular season, next season will give the team a chance to carve another niche in Notre Dame's women's basket­ball annals. 
Monday-Thursday: 7:30am to Midnight Friday: 7:30am to 7:00pm Noon to 
Noon to 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Junior Danielle Green and the Irish were unable to fend off the surging 
Boilermakers as they lost, 70-65. 
Gante 
continued from page 24 
ly due to an amazing three-point shooting display by junior Sheila McMillen. 
"Well, it was just a matter that I was ready to shoot," McMillen said. "I went into Ruth [Riley], and I found myself open a lot for some wide-open shots." 
In the second half, the Irish still carried their momentum to even greater heights, using a layup by Niele lvey to take a 56­40 lead. Purdue pulled to within 10 points, but a three-pointer by Ivey stopped the Boilermakers from cutting too much into the lead. 
It was then that Purdue began to use the full-court press, which slowly began to wear down the Irish on both ends of the court. After earning her fourth foul at the 15:13 mark, Riley was forced to take a seat on the bench. When the Boilers then pulled to within seven, McGraw placed her back into the lineup in an attempt to stop the bleed­ing. Less than two minutes later, Riley earned her fifth foul, forc­ing her to take a seat to a cheer­ing crowd. 

continued their run for the lead. At the 4:01 mark, Ukari Figgs made a short jumper to cap a 22-5 run and take a 62-61 lead -their first lead of the day. Meanwhile, Notre Dame's offense fell apart, going score­less for six minutes until Ivey hit a free throw with 1:30 remain­ing. After a turnover, Peirick then hit a three pointer to cut the Boiler lead to three. 
After a timeout, the Irish attempted to pick up a quick foul and send Purdue to the free throw line, a weakness for the Boilers. However, Danielle Green's collision with a Purdue player at half-court went unno­ticed by the referees, and play went on. With 7.1 seconds left in the game, Katie Douglas was fouled and sent to the free throw line, where she calmly sunk two shots to put the game out of reach. 
Notre Dame was led by McMillen, who went 6-for-1 0 from behind the arc for 18 of her 22 points on the day. Ivey and Riley had 12 and 10 pointe;;, respectively, to lead the other Irish players in double figures. Freshman Kelley Siemon led the team in rebounds with 13 boards, while Peirick dished out 

a game-high eight assists and five points. 
"It's tough losing Mollie Peirick," McGraw remarked. "As a senior, she had a great year for us, and did a great job as a leader, but it's a young team, and we will definitely be back." 
Purdue was led by White, with 22 points and six steals for the game. As a team, the .. Boilermakers went 19-for-35 from the charity stripe . 
"I don't even know how to express it," Peck remarked on advancing to the regional finals. "It's a great feeling. I think we're in a place that a lot of peo­ple would never expect this team to be in, with no seniors and only two juniors." 
-

With the win, Purdue improves its record to 23-9 and extends its winning streak to eight games. They will take on third-seeded Louisiana Tech tonight in the regional final. With the loss, the Irish 1md their season at 22-10. 
''I'm proud of this team," McGraw said. "I think we have accomplished more than a lot of people were ready to give us credit for. The team played hard, with a tremendous desire and pride, and I think that's the type of team that you'll see back here again next year." 

I, I' 
'I • 
r------~------------------------~--~------------~------------------------------­
Monday, March 23, 1998 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MEN'S lACROSSE 

Knights steal win from Irish with last second goal 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Sports Writers 
In a game that came down to the win~. it was the Fighting Irish that just ran out of time. 
Fn~sh man attae k e r Keith Cromwell put Rutgers up by scoring with (,:42 remaining in tlw ganw to break a 12-12 tie. The Scarlet Knights went on to stnal otw on the road from the 
I:~th rankml Irish by the final of 13-12. 
Notre Dame, 3-2 on the year, was led by junior attack Chris Dusseau. who had four goals on the game. Dusseau. was frus­tratml with the teams perfor­mance in the previous two games. but realizes that the season is far from over. 
"We neml to take care of the little things if we want to turn it around," DussPau said. "We nnnd to finish our plays, capital­ize on opportunities when they arise and eliminate some of the mistakes." 
The Irish had battled baek from a 9-5 defieit in the third quarter by scoring four unan­swered goals in less than flve minutns. The teams then traded goals to enter the fourth quar­ter tied at I l. 
Rutgers pulled ahead on a goal by senior Craig Buckley two minutes into the quarter. Dusseau answered three min­uti)S later to tie the score once again. Notre Dame had one final attempt befi1re the buzzer, but senior captain .Jimmy Keenan's shot failed to reach the net. 
Lr.ading Rutgers throughout 
the contest, junior Brody Bush scored five times and added two assists. The Irish only led once during the game at 3-2, but Bush scored three unanswered goals for Scarlet Knights in the second quarter. 
The Irish were coming ofl' of a crushing loss to highly ranked Loyola, and were hoping to rebound against Rutgers. 
"Against Loyola we were out of it from the beginning," Dusseau said. "With Hutgers we competed the entire time. and we were very dose throughout. We kept battling back, but just fell short in the end." 
Despite the early losses, the Irish season is far from over. In the remaining seven games, Notre Dame will faee several ranked opponents. Learning from these early losses could prove to be crucial. 
"These losses will help us in 
the long run," Keenan com­
mented. "Its beneficial to learn 
from your mistakes early. We 
now know we need to focus 
before every game, and we just 
need to start playing harder as 
a team." 
Keenan had two goals and 
two assists for the Irish, while 
freshman attack David Ulrich 
led the team in assists with 
four. Senior captain goalie i\lex 
Carle played the entire game 
and finished with 11 saves. 
These team leaders will be 
called upon in this critical point 
of the season. 
"All of our seniors need to 
step up," Keenan observed. 
"Especially now, after two 
straight losses, leadership is 
eritieal. But everybody needs to 
elevate their play as we look to 
Hobart next weekend." 


Senior midfield Jimmy Keenan contributed two goals and two assists in Saturday's loss to the Knights. 
in our work with poor 


WHAT CAN I DO WITH A DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS1 
Many career opportunities are available to students with degrees in MATHEMATICS. The training and analytical sl~ills acquired in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools lool~ for. Here are some of the careers pursued by recent Notre Dame Graduates in mathematics. 
•Actuarial Positions in the Insurance Industry 
• Computer Programming and Systems Analysis 
• Management Consulting 
• Post-graduate Study in Business Administration,_ Computer Science, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Music 
-For information about majoring in mathematics contact Prof. Dennis Snow (snow.l@nd.edu), Dept. of Mathematics, room 203, or come to the 
Spotliglat Prograwn for Matlaewnali«:§ Tue§day, Mar«:la ~4, 7-8 p.wn. Roown ~~6 CCMB 
I''\ 'I 
---------~ 

Monday, March 23, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS 
page 19 
• HOCKEY 
Eaton earns Rookie of the Year honors for CCHA 
Special to The Observer 
Collegiate Hockey Association 

Tournament banquet.
rookie of the year, as selected 

Eaton is the second Notre
Notre Dame freshman 
by the conference's coaches 

Dame player to be named con­
defenseman Mark Eaton has 
and announced Thursday night 

ference rookie of the year in
been named the 1998 Central 
at the annual CCHA 


Tomorrow, Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 
NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Finance Forum 
The Finance Club welcomes 
to discuss issues concerning: 
•the 
role derivatives play in and on exchanges 

• 
the impact of the Asian Crisis on Asian and U.S. banking sectors 



-President and CEO of National Futures Association -Member of the Notre Dame Board of Trustees -Former President and CEO of Chicago Board of Trade -Chairman of LaSalle National Corporation 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 4:30p.m. C.C.E. Auditorium 
All undergraduate and MBA students are welcome to attend. 
modern era, following in the 
footsteps of eventual All­
American center Brian Walsh, 
who was named the Western 
Collegiate Hockey Association 
rookie of the year in 1973-74. 
Notre Dame right wing Joe 
Dusbabek was runner-up to 
Western Michigan defenseman 
Darryl Andrews in voting for 
the 1997 CCHA rookie of the year. Eaton edged out Ohio State goaltender Jeff Maund for the award, receiving 64 voting points to Maund's 62. Both 
players received five first-place votes, with Michigan State for­ward Rustyn Dolyny receiving 

Moreau Center­
Uttle Theatre 
Thursday-Saturday, April 2-4 • 8 p.m. Sunday, April 5 • 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
S,aint M.,y•• Colletfe~ 

MO~,f'~/ 
THE ARTS NOTRE DAME, IN 

A MUSICAL FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY 
based on the comic strip "PEANUTS" by CHARLES SCHULZ 
the other first-place. Dolyny finished third in the balloting with 43 points, followed by Michigan center Mark Kosick and Bowling Green goaltender Shawn Timm. First-place votes received 10 points while sec­ond-place votes were worth five points and third-place worth two points. 
Eaton's 12 goals are the sev­enth-most ever by an Irish defenseman and most since 1986. He totaled 19 points in Notre Dame's final 16 games, highlighted by a four-point game at Alaska-Fairbanks and four goals in six games vs. Michigan. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 23, 1998 
• fENCING 

Walsh places in third consecutive championships 
Women give Irish early lead in tourney 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sporrs Writer 
The Irish women ended tlwir eompetition on Friday in first place in the NCAA Championships, continuing where they had left off the day before. 
The lead the team estab­lished on tlw first day of the tournanwnt allowed them to fenee a bit more relax1~d while eontinuing to build the lead. 
After tlw women did their damagP on tlw strip, Notre Dame stood in first with 73 wins. S1~cond-place Stanford trailed with 66 points and defending champion Penn State was a distant third. 10 points bl'hind Stanford. 
"Saturday was more fun," junior foilist Sara Walsh said. "We w1~rn able to relax but maintain our high intensity." 
Aftl~r posting a near-perfect mark of l :{-1 on tlw first day, Walsh added another eight victories on Friday. llor biggest wins came against Columbia's Erinn Smart and Stanford's Monique de Bruin, with seorns of 5-3 and 5-2, respectively. ller only loss on the day in tho round-robin came against Stanford's Felicia Zimnwrrnann, who would finish as the national champion. 
Walsh's 21-2 record in tiH~ lirst night rounds gave her the second seed in the finals. Despite having defeated Smart in the earlier rounds, the third-semi was able to defeat Walsh in a 15-1 I bout. Smart fenced Zimmerman in the finals, and was defeated 15­
11. 
In tlw bronzP-metal match, Walsh dnfPated Columbia's Susan Jennings to finish third on the day. 
"I was evf~n rPiaxed in the finals," Walsh said. "I feneed Erinn !Smart] touch by touch, which kept things focused and fun. Because of my fencing, I was satisliPd even with third." 
.Junior Myriah Brown, the 

• 
other Irish foilist, fm1ced a 6-3 
mark on the second day, fin­
ishing the tournament with 17 
wins and a no. six ranking. 
"Women's foil is a very strong event, with three Olympians in the field," head coach Yves Auriol said. "Brown missed the finals by a matter of three touches." 
In the end, Brown and Walsh combined for 38 wins, tying them with Stanford and Columbia for most wins in foil. 
The other side of the women's strip was equally as relaxed and dominant. Led by junior Nicole Mustilli, the team amassed 35 victories in the tournament. Mustilli's 19­4 record in the opening rounds included a win over the eventual champion, fresh­man Charlotte Walker of Penn State. Sophomore Magda Krol, the other Irish epeeist, record­ed 16 wins in her sixth-place effort. 
Going 8-1 on the second day, Mustilli was able to move from fifth place to beeome the no. two seed heading into the finals. 
"Today was an easier day, I was much more relaxed and the competition cased up," Mustilli stated. "Yesterday, everyone was surprised with my fencing. Today, I expeeted it." 
In the finals, Mustilli was paired against St. John's Nieole Dygert. Dygert won their first meeting of the tour­nament, 5-0. 
"The faet that I lost before didn't hurt me in the finals. I fenced her in a similar situa­tion at the Penn State tourna­ment earlier in the year. and it didn't hurt me." 
Mustilli was edged out 15-14 in the match. She finished fourth after a second loss, this time to Lisagor. Yet Mustilli finished the tournament with 19 victories, which was sec­ond to only Walker's 20. 
The goal to foeus on winning bout by bout gave the Irish women the outcome they expected. 
"I am happy about the way the women fenced," Auriol said. "They were able to hand the men a good lead, and they fenced excellently." 




Foik Nominations Invited 
The Reverend Paul J. Foik Award Committee invites nominees for the award, which is given annually to a library faculty member who has contributed significantly to library service to the Notre Dame community or to the library profession through personal scholarship or involvement in professional associations. The award is named for the Holy Cross priest who served as director ofNotre Dame's library from 1912 to 1924 and was a leading figure in the library profession in the first quarter of the 20th century. It is among those announced at the President's faculty dinner in May. Previous winners have been Maureen Gleason, Deputy Director, Robert Havlik, Engineering Librarian emeritus, Joseph Huebner, Head of Collection Development emeritus, Rafael Tarrago, Latin American Studies Librarian, Janis Johnston, Associate Director, Law Library, Charlotte Ames, American Catholic Studies Librarian, and Dwight King, Jr., Head of Research Department, Law Library. All members of the University Libraries' and Law Library faculty with two or more years' tenure are eligible. Please send names of nominees, including justification, to the Reverend Paul J. Foik A ward Committee, % John Halloran, 247 Business Administration Complex. by April 9. 
Like thousands of students before him, Jordan knows the value of an associate's degree from Holy Cross College. It's a value measured in personal attention. Whether it's a little extra help with a history paper or guidance selecting the right courses for his plans to transfer to Notre Dame. 
With its challenging curriculum, new residential life program and low student-teacher ratio, Holy Cross provides a great start for college success. And when Jordan graduates with his associate's degree. he will have fulfilled many of the requirements for a Notre Dame degree. (As a Holy Cross student, he already takes advantage of many of Notre Dame's resources.) 
Holy Cross College. Small classes. A caring and accessible faculty. The personal attention you need to be successful. 
KIT~ HOLY 
~-~ IL._; CHOSS 
ltj~ t:OLLE(;E 
P.O. llox .lOll • Notre llumc, IN 46556 
(2t9) 239-11400 • FAX (2191 233-7427 
E-mail: vdukc@hcc-nd.edu Web site: http://www.h<T-nd.cdu 


A REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE CSC WED., MARCH 25 12 -9 p.m AND THURS., MARCH 26 FROM 8 a.m. -NOON 
PLEASE STOP BY TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE A V PROGRAM! 
WE WILL HOLD AN INFORMATION SESSION AT THE CSC AT 7 p.m. ON MARCH 25 
Apostolic Volunteers (708) 524-5984 maryanop@aol.com WWW. Sinsinawa. org 

--~~-----------------' 
Monday, March 23, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
my efforts." "Janusz's coaching was phe­play, which bumped him up to 5-4 margin.
With the help of head coach nomenal," LaValle said. "He third place and giving him a "Going into the final bout, I Yves Auriol and sabre coach was always there at the strip spot in the finals. Entering the told myself I'm here, and I ­continued from page 24 Janusz Bednarski, LaValle was and motivated my fencing." final round, LaValle was tied don't want to waste it, I don't able to turn the tide. LaValle began his second day for fourth for the final spot in want to settle for second 
LaValle 
they all recorded victories "Luke and I sat down with of competition in a different against him. coach Bednarski," said Auriol. mindset. 
"I knew that after that, I real­"We told him the girls were "He was a different fencer ly had to work hard Lon able to win by fighting, and so than yesterday," Auriol said. Saturday] to make it," said can he. In my mind, he was LaValle went 8-1 in the three LaValle. "I needed to refocus ready to fence and win." remaining rounds of opening 
V GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Scholarship V 
In the winter of1978, this campus was a happy place. The Irish were .\'ational Champions. A Satre Dame senior was accepted and planninR on a/lending law school the following fall. By all accounts, his future looked bright. He was due to graduate from Notre Dame in May, and he was in love. The previous summer while employed at a vacation resort, he had met .\lark, a fellow employee, and began what both hoped would be a permanent, lovinR relationship. In February, however, this young man with so much talent and potential chose to take his own life. His motivation for suicide was simple: he could not face the homophobia that permeated his world. ./l,'o record ofthis senior's obituary has been found in The Observer archives. Mark 's loving relationship was not honored. 
In 1996, in an effort to "bring this tragedy 'home' with dignity and optimism," Mark Schubauer of Ester, Alaska approached the Gay and Lesbian Alumni/ae of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College (GALA-ND/SMC) with an idea and an offer. Through his own generosity, which was matched in GALA-ND/SMC's 1996 and 1997 annual fund drives, an endowed scholarship has been established in memory of Mark's loved one. 
Accordingly, GALA-ND/SMC is pleased to announce that it is accepting applications for the Second Annual GALA-ND/SMC Memorial Scholarship in honor of this deceased former student, as well as members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community lost to AIDS. This year's award consists of a $1,600.00 grant to be presented to a gay, lesbian or bisexual student from Notre Dame and/or Saint Mary's College to honor leadership and to support the students' participation in a six-to eight-week summer service project benefiting the gay, lesbian and bisexual community. Projects at agencies providing services to individuals with HIVIAIDS or agencies providing services to gay and lesbian youth are encouraged. 
It is anticipated that the scholarships will be personally conferred at the GLNDIS.i!C Formal by representatives ofGALA-ND!SMC on Apri/18, 1998 in South Bend. 
The deadline for applications is Monday, March 30, 1998. Guidelines and application forms may be obtained from the Center for Social Concerns at Notre Dame or by e-mail request from GALANDSMC@aol.com. 
The Gay and Lesbian AJumniiH ofNotre Dame and Saint Mary's Colege is lffl independent 501(c)(3) charitable organization with no affiatioll to either the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's Colege. The names of recipients of these scholarships wi be l<e,X confidential pending their consent. GALA-NDISMC may be contacted for furlher information at GALANDSMC@aol.corn or (612) 221-9765. 
the championship, along with NYU's Paul Palestis and Penn State's Aaron Steuwe. Palestis and Steuwe each went 2-1 in round eight while LaValle went 3-0. 
"My goal this morning was to make it to the final four," LaValle said. "I knew that from there, I could win this. It really wasn't an option after that." 
In the first final, LaValle faced second-seeded Durkin once again. But this outcome differed from the 5-4 bout Durkin won in round-robin play. LaValle came out to an early lead of 9-5 to eventually beat the sole Columbia sabre­man in the tournament 15-12. 
LaValle advanced to the finals in another tournament rematch, this time against Golia. Again, LaValle's oppo­nent appeared to have the upper hand, as Golia handed him a loss the day earlier, by a place," LaValle said. He jumped to a 10-4 lead against the Pennsylvania freshman and hung on to win the bout 15-11. 

"I don't think it was a matter of overconfidence," Golia said. "Fencing together at the New York Athletic Club, we already know how the other fences. I think it was being at Notre Dame that pushed him over the edge. It was different than from when I fenced him in the round-robin, because the crowd wasn't as focused then as in the finals. I could heard them, they were loud." 
The championship is only Notre Dame's third, with the other two coming back-to-hack from Mike Sullivan in 1977-78. In addition, Sullivan served as an assistant coach for the team from 1996-97. 
LaValle fenced with him here and back home at the New York Athletic Club. 
COORDINATOR OF YOUTH MINISTRY needed to implement a ministry responsive to the spiritual, personal and social needs of Catholic youth in a middle-class 2500-family parish in Baton Rouge, LA. An integral part of this ministry will include recruitment, devel­opment and training of volunteer youth workers and collaborative 
with a large parish staff consisting of clergy, religious and lay 
. The ideal candidate will possess a minimum of three years' 
in working with teenagers, and a degree in theology, 
youth ministry, pastoral studies, communications, guidance, or the 
equivalent in education and/or experience. Benefits include medical 
and disability insurance and retirement plan. Send resume and refer­
no later than Aprill5, 1998 to: St. Thomas More Catholic "'--'·'u'"'" 11441 Goodwood Blvd., Baton Rouge, LA 70815; or FAX at (504) 275-1407, Attn: Father John Carville. You can also con­tact us by e-mail at STM02@compuserve.com. 
Student Activities is now accepting applications for the 1998-99 academic year: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers LaFortune Information Desk Attendants Gorch Games Room Attendants Office Assistants Ballroom Monitors Sound Technicians 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors Cake Service Building Set Up Crew 
pplications are available at 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Thursday, April 9. 
• 

--=----~ ---~~--------~--------~-------------------~ 
page 22 
Men's 
continued from page 24 
bang, leading the field with 73 points, ahead of second-place Stanford with 66 points and 17 poinl'i ahead of Penn State. 
Men's sabre was the first men's event. .Junior Luke LaValle and freshman Andrzej Bednarski started the tournament ranked sixth and ninth, respcetively. The Irish accumulated just 16 victories eomparnd to Penn State's 23. 
"We wercn 't showcasing our abilities," LaValle said. "Wf~ rnli>­cused our goals that evening, and came out the next day and fenc(~d the way we should." 
In the final three round-robin rounds. the team complied 13 victories. The team upped its lead against Penn State by three wins in the sixth round as LaValle and Bednarski gained 5 wins compared to the Lions' 2. In the Iwxt round, the two gained another point against Penn State, sparked by LaValle's win against 


e~ 11teeu-r~~ 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year and January '98. Summer Rentals June~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
CarlsonWagonlitl\lt!l 
\t l'ra1 clmor<.· (·arbon \\"a!!onlit Tral"cl \\e ha1 c h<.:cn 'cn<.hng :\otre Dame and · \ian\ student~ and fa~:~dt 1 to I:un>pc fur lll cr 25 ~ears I ,et our C\jX:rJcnu.:d

.. 
:lll'll)X:<;n Sjx:<.:mli,ts plan~ Pt;r next tnp to I:llrP)lC <lt11 ai!cnc~ oilers_ 

.\l~o. we kno\\ ho\\ 1mportant your monc) '' I Jon "t get ..:aught pa) ing a $20 sen icc charge for airline tickets and anothn $10 Icc fpr rail passes at l>thcr ""1111pus agcrKI''' " 

Penn State's Michael Takagi and Bednarski's victory over Penn State's Aaron Steuwe. 
LaValle's 8-1 record in the final three rounds propelled him into the final four. Wins against Durkan and Mike Golia of Pennsylvania gave LaValle the championship. 
The men's foil and epee events were just getting underway Saturday. Penn State edged its way closer to first, as their foil duo of David Lidow and Gang Lu swept Notre Dame's Stephan Auriol and John Tejada 4-0. 
"These early loses made us sit back a bit. We forgot how to have fun and forced the wins," Tejada said on the foil team's disappointing 9-19 collective start. 
Brian Stone and Carl Jackson had a different outcome on Saturday, combining for 17 victo­ries in epee, with only Stanford and St. John's gaining more points. 
"No one carries the squad for Notre Dame," Stone commented. "Everyone is doing their part." 
At the end of the day, Notre 
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, March 23, 1998 
Dame held on to first place, but its lead had slipped to just three points over Penn State. 
Sunday's first round of compe­tition saw Penn State finally close the gap on the team champi­onship and then pull ahead by two points. The break was main­ly due to Penn State's 4-0 sweep against Jackson and Stone. Penn 
--------------~--------------­
State captain Tom Peng recorded wins over Stone (5-4) and Jackson (5-1), as did his team­mate, freshman Brandon Baby, with two 5-4 decisions. Stone and Jackson rebounded in the next round, combining to go 5-1 and setting up an intense eighth and final round. 
The team score was tied at 139 for the Irish and Penn State as they entered the linal round of competition in the tournament. 
Peng's victory against Princeton's Jason Burrell gave Penn State the point that put them over the top and gave them the championship. Baby's bout and win gave them a two point victory over the Irish. 


Achievement Award Program 
Each year The Summit Group, a rapidly growing systems and computer consulting firm, grants several $1000.00 scholarships to junior college students across the country. Our scholarships reward students f<>r their achievements in school thus far and helps to expose them to the field of systems integration and business systems consulting. 
Requirements 

-Graduate in December, 1998 or in spring or summer, 1999 -GPA ).2 or above -Working towards a bachelor's degree in computer science, management information systems, computer information systems, systems analysis, decision science/systems or any engineering discipline. -Strong communication skills. Problem solving ability. A positive attitude. Well rounded interests. A drive to excel. A desire to work in the systems integration/consulting field. 
Achievement Award Process 
Each applicant is required to submit a personal resume, most recent transcript, and an essay of interest, "Why I am interested in a career in systems integration." 
slJMM1TGUJP 
---------1 N C 

The deadline for applications is April I';, 1998 Please mail applications to : 
The Summit Group, Inc. Human Resources 
Achievement Award Scholarship PO. Box r; 106 Mishawaka, IN 46';46-S I06 visit our website at www.summitgroup.com 
Concert of Indian Classical Vocal Music 

/'Rajan and Sajan Misra 
with Sohanlal Mishra (tabla) and Kanta Prasad Mishra (harmonium) 
Wednesday, March 25, 1998, 7:30pm Auditorium, The Hesburgh Center for International Studies University of Notre Dame 
General Admission: $10 ND/SMC:$5 Students: Free 
Sponsored by: The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 
Celebration of the 50th Anniversary of India's Independence 
National Sponsors: Center for the Performing Arts oi India, University of Pittsburgh and Indi;m Council for Cultural Relations (ICCR), India 


Monday, March 23 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 


DILBERT 
M'< NEW PRODUCT IS A DATABASE OF FAMOUS SERIAL KILLERS. 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM YOU CAN SEARC\-1 THE DATI\ BASE BY NAME, 
CROSSWORD  
ACkUSS  36Change  67 Jim Davis canine  
1 Construct 5 Meadow sounds  37 Chirac's state 39 Country singer Tillis  68 Member of a traditional establishment  
9 Barbra's "A Star Is Born" co-star 13 "The Good  41 Sunni, e.g. 421970Tony winner for  69 First name in TV comedy 70 Russo of  
Earth" heroine  "Applause"  "Outbreak"  
14 Runs while  45 Harsh words  
sitting 16 Cassia's rival  48 Locomobile contemporary  DOWN  
17 Benchmark  49 Cheesy TV  1 Calendar page  
18 Hotel employee 19 False locks 20CheesyTV comedy? 23 Witch's potential meal 24 A mean Am in 25 Cheesy TV cop show? 32 Doo-wop  comedy? 52 Back, in a way 53 Muss up 57 Cheesy TV detective show. with "The"? 62Ciue 63 South African province 64 TV knob 65 Toiletries case  2Sandwich Islands greeting 3 Silkwood of "Silkwood" 4 Tangle up 5 Oyster. e.g. 6 Classic Rodin sculpture 7 Start of a Shakespearean title  
syllable  66 One of the  aDeem  
35 Floor model  Titans  appropriate  
9 Bird whose  
males incubate  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE the eggs --,---.-........--, 10 Epitome of 
1-!-~R;,;,;,!,~-=-4-=:..t-==+!--~..!...1-:::!.+~!..JII~ ~~~~~~ 
~-=-+=+=~'-""'..,. 

1-=-!-=-11-=-lri~,;, ....~+..:...-.~.,;,jEi-:-f-:-:--1 L.;.;.j..:..:..j..:...:..li-=4..=..J• ....:-+.:-..j:-+::..flllll~8..:,:.t~ 
thinness 11 Rock singer --Pop 
12 Urgent call 15 Sports facilities 
21Pooped
22 Peeve 
26 Signal booster 27 Circus noises 28 Speculations 
29 Tack, in a way 30 "--homo" 31 "How to Make 
an American Quilt" author Whitney-­
OR TI\TTOO. YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Aries: Pick and choose the team you most want to join today. Strange ideas are certainly the most attractive, but the associat­ed results may be Jess than pro­ductive. Take your time when deciding. 
Taurus: When the pace picks up at work, adopt a flexible style. Digging in and holding your posi­tion will only cause increased resistance. If you must be over­whelmed, let it be a joyful experi­ence. 
Gemini: Let your mind wander today, and be sure to keep talking so that your friends are along for the ride. Plans for the future begin in the strangest places. One story leads magically to another. 
Cancer: It becomes clear that not everyone understood the original plan. Certain gaps appear between actual and pro­jected results. Stop everything instantly and go back to plug the holes. 
Leo: Nobody is going to agree with you today, so don't even ask. You might end up having fun if you follow someone else's lead for a change. A little knowledge 

SCOTT ADAMS 
wouldn't hurt you at this time. Virgo: You may be the soul of 
u 
practicality, but sometimes you

c LET ME GUESS, WALLY: 
could benefit from yielding to 

SH.. MONTH5 AGO OUR 
sudden impulse. Spontaneity does not necessarily end in waste and ruin. Enrich yourself with a walk 

YOUNG INTERN ASKED 
YOU WHAT THE TERM 
on the wild side. 

"KILLER APPLICATION " 
Libra: Romance happens on your terms today. Anything is possible, and most of the possibil­ities are likely. If you are not yet in a relationship, this is the time to do something about it. 
Scorpio: Use a gentle touch on issues of home and family. Choose your words carefully, and steer clear of certain thoughts. Your loved ones may not agree with your sweeping solutions to their problems. 
Sagittarius: This is a wonderful time to connect with many other people. The Internet was made for days like today. Surf with wild abandon, stopping here and there to stir things up in a chat room. 
Capricorn: Today is marked by your willingness to take an unusual financial risk. A big return requires substantial investment. Do not bet any more than you can afford to Jose. 
Aquarius: Appearance isn't everything, although you certain­ly look fantastic today. What real­ly attracts attention at the moment is what you say or do. Be gracious when signing auto­graphs. 
Pisces Logic does not have much of a place in your activities today. Trying to decipher events as they happen will only be a waste of time. The reality behind all the madness will show itself in a few days. 

Get rid ofvour old shoes...this week! 
.. Collection Sites: 

'I • Residence Halls , I I • Turtle Creek(#1638) 
• Hesl:!urgh Library 1 
• Campus Vlew(#1828)
I I 
I • Loftus.. • LafayeHe (#16) 
• 
Rockne 

• 
Rolfs Rec Center 



~ • Decio student government • Stu. Govt. (203 Lafun) 
~./7At Annual , , Lc-~1..-­


8e~t0eek 
ALL THIS WEEK. 

student government~ 
MEANT. 

Wanted: Sports writer and copy editors. Call 1~4543 for more information. 

32 Corporate concern 33 Bryce Canyon locale 34 Defensive spray 38 Flat hat 40 Welcome site 43 Outdoor party 44 Scale holder 46Aiit 47 One who leads class struggle? 50 "Foul!" 51 Swain 

54 Water park sight 5!ll Bathroom cabinet item
55 Order of-­(bygone award) 60 Oklahoma 
native56 Lauder of 
cosmetics 61 Btq name in 57 Rom2'1ce mapmaking writ~:;, s award 
62 Cabinet 58 Load t•_. !.JEiar acronym. once 
-
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Monday, March 23, 1998 
• NCAA fENCING CHAMPIONSHIPS 

Notre Dame foiled again 

Men unable to fend offPenn States surge 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Spons Writer 
The Notre Dame fencing team was unable to carry the lead it had established all weekend through the final day of competition in the NCAA Championships. 
Entering the day, ahead of Penn State, the second-place team and defending champion, by three points, the leader board would shift before the smoke cleared and Penn State came out on top by a score of 149 to Notre Dame's 147. This is the fourth-straight year the Nittany Lions have won the tournament and the third­straight year the Irish have fin­ished second. 
The men took to the strip Friday afternoon after the women's foil and epee team started the tournament with a 
see MEN'S! page 22 

LaValle wins National Championship in sabre 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Sports Writer 
After winning three consec­utive Midwest Hegional titles, junior sabre captain Luke LaValle was ready to take his game to a level higher in the NCAA championships. On Saturday, he did just that, winning the men's sabre championship. 
''I'm going into [the champi­onships] worrying about it one step at a time, one duel at a time," said LaValle last week on his outlook for the tourna­ment. His climb led him to the pinnacle this weekend as he became the first Irish men's fencing champion since Jubba Beshin in 1990, who won in epee. 
The competition for LaValle and the men's sabre began Friday afternoon with the event's first five rounds of round-robin competition. Despite finishing the day with a 9-5 record -good enough to give him sixth place­LaValle lost tb a number of top-ranked fencers that he is familiar with. 
St. John's Keith Smart, Penn's Mike Golia -who fin­ished the day ranked fourth ­and second-ranked Patrick Durkin of Columbia have all fenced with LaValle at the New York Athletic Club, their home fencing team. And on the first day of competition, 
see LAVALLE I page 21 

• NCAA WOMEN's BASKETBAll TOURNAMENT 

Boilermakers end Irish quest for championship 
Purdue rallys in second half to advance to

• 
Midwest regional finals 
By BILL HART A\Sistanr Sports Editor 
Like last year. the women's basketball team's run to the regionals was an one of the most sur­prising aspects of the NCAA Tournament. 
After defeating top-seeded Texas Tech on their home eourt last week, the Irish seemed poised for another run to tlw Final Four. llowever. this goal proved to be just out of reach, as Notre Dame fell to fourth-seeded Purdue 70-65 on Saturday in the Midwest Regional semifinals in Lubboek, Texas. 
At the start, the Irish took quick advantage of their height and stn~ngth . Notre Dame went on an H-0 run to start the game, not allowing the Boilers to score for the first two minutes. Junior Stephanie White kept l'urdun in the game, scoring the first six points for the Boilnrs. However, the Irish held a 42-30 advantage going into the locker room. most-
see GAME I page 17 


• IRISH INSIGHT 
Tournament run more magical than last year's Final Four trip 
BILL HART Assistant Sports Editor 

You could see the emotion in the players' eyes as they walked oil" the court of the Lubbock Coliseum after Saturday's loss to Purdue. There was a quiet resignation of the truth. Another magical run to the Final Four was not to be. 
There was no lack of respect for the team's accomplishments, though. In some ways, this year's NCM Tournament run was just as awe­inspiring as last year's, if not more so. When one considers all the trials and tribulations the team faced after the end of the 1996-97 season, it makes their achievement all the more spectacular. 
After the most successful season in the 20-year history of Notre Dame's women's basketball pro­gram, head coach Muffet McGraw was faced with 
see INSIGHT I page 17 


~ 
at Hobart at Duke March 28, 2 p.m. 
March 26, 2 p.m. 
!! a; •Knights upset Irish at home 
w? 
vs. Duquesne at Michigan ~ see page 18March 24, 4 p.m. 

~ 
March 25, 4 p.m. ..... 
vs. Cinncinnati 

•Eaton named Rookie of the Year
• ~ ~~.... March 24, 5:05 p.m. 
Track and Field see page 19 vs. Loyola Chicago at Purdue Invitational 
'!w 

March 26, TBA March 27-28 






