r----------------------------------~----­

Residents of Bethel College, South Bend, ND/SMC gather to protest KKK rally 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
A group composed of Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and staff. Bethel College students and members of the South Bend community and numbering more than I00 people. attended a two-hour demon­stration on the Fieldhouse Mall Saturday · af'tnrnoon to remember the 30th anniver­sary of the murder of civil rights leader Martin Luther King. Jr. and to protest an upcoming Ku Klux Klan rally in Elkhart. 
The demonstration featured speakers on the topic of race relations, poetry from Bethel student Theo Williams and the music of Rejoice Black Catholic Choir. 

Most of the speakers had prepared speeches that varied in topic from the Klan rally to how diversity is expressed in their communities.' But some participants, including professor of economics Teresa Ghilarducci, came to the podium to say what was on their minds at the time. 
"It is good to see a little more diverse group than I usually see in my class­room," she said. "I came here because I am 40 and Martin Luther King was orga­nizing marches when I was at a very for­mative time of my life, trying to make my way in the world." 
She filled in some of the history of King's visit to Memphis, Tenn., on the first week of April in 1968, telling the crowd about the wage problems and job insecu­rity that faced black sanitation workers in 
The Observer/John Daily 
Glenda Rae Hernadez, commissioner on the South Bend Commission on Human Rights, 
see ANTI-KLAN 1page 4 spoke at the Anti-Klan rally on Saturday at the Fieldhouse Mall. 
NAACP presents Image Awards 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame chapter of the National Assodation for the Advancement of Colored i'Pople recognized outstanding leadership and nwerPnce for minority issues in its chaptPr Image Awards on f<'riday night. 
This is the second year for the Image Awards which honor achievement in com­munity service, the arts and athldics. The awards also recognize seniors. freshmen and faculty who have contributed to diver­sity on campus . 
.lamiko Rose, a senior from Cavanaugh, was awarded the Outstanding Community Service award for her continued work with the Center for Social Concerns and the Political Action Committee of the NAACP. 
"I think it's everyone's moral duty to sPrve people here on campus, and not only on campus. but in this world," Rose told the audience. "We are all inter-connected." 
Christophe Kougniazonde was given a special service award for non-students. Kougniazonde has developed the Pan­African Cultural Center and the Salon of Friendship for students. 
Freshmen Belinda Bryant received the award for Visual Artisan of the Year for her paintings. Senior Joseph Rolon, who direct­ed "The Colored Museum," received the award for Performing Artisan of the Year. 
The Athlete of the Year award went to 
see NAACP I page 4 
The Observer/John Daily Members of the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir lift their voices and hands during the ceremony. The LaFortune Ballroom played host to the event as awards in community service, athletics and the arts were presented. 
Jenky: Homilies reason lOr discrimination 
By DAVID FREDDOSO Senior Staff'Writer 
In statements released Thursday, Father John Jenkins officially responded to Father David Garrick's claim that .his Priestly duties in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart en · · fter he disclosed his homos¢xuality in April
19 . . 
Garrick, who recently resigned from his faculty position lit.Notre Dame, said he has "circumstantial evidence" that he was systematically not being invited to say Mass at the Basilica because he came out as· a celibate, homosexual priest. 
"When I issued my previous state­ment [about Garrick's resignation]. I had hoped toavoid a public debate of matters which had been discussed 
\Vjthin the community ofHoly qrQ~s.~· J13nkins' 
t . , ''HQ)Ve'Ve~;in the a~s~nee Qf further om me or Father Richard ~a:mer [director 
s Ministry]... certain untruth$ li~ve been per· .P . .. . . . ...... . 
Jenkfus' statement claims no onehanried Garrick from celebrating Sunday Mass at the Basilica, Heclarified this in a telephone interview, stating that Garrick was not being scheduled solely because of his homilies. 
'Tdecline to accept {Campus Ministry's] explanation," Garrick wrote in his March 19 letter to The Observer, in which he publicly announced his resignation. 
Jenkins denied in the statement thatany "letter of sus­pension" was sent out to prevent Garrick from sa,.ying Mass at. the Basilica. It added that G:arrick had . privately • admitted the letter did n?f ,.......--"---~~-.,...., 
exist and that be• mistakenly men• tioned it in his recent letter. to· The 
Observer.· · · Bishop Daniel Jenky, rector of the 
Basilica during the time in question, contested Garrick's claim that he no longer says Mass in the Basilica because of his homosexuality. 
"lfpeople had not complained to me denkins every time he was (saying Mass], he would · be up there today," he. said. 
"Ev thne [Garrick has Pl.'E!athed]in the past two 
· have been phone complal}lt~. Jeilky contin­tle •. that the quality oftli~ hqi})lli~s ser~es as gro to not invite .a priest tQ .P?rt~~jpate at the 
Bas . a,... .. . . . ...••..·•·········•
"We d.o that allthe time," he said, adding that the priests in question are not· always speyifically. told that they are not being invited again. 
"The Basilica staff had the general feeling that [Garrick's preaching] was too long and overly dramatic," 

see GARRICK I page 4 
, o I 1 I I ' 'J' I 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Small things 
Darn it all. Studnnts of Notre 
Tom EnrightDame and Saint Mary's, 
News Copy Editor
why am we wasting large amounts of our parnnL<;' savings to attend these "fine" private institutions? Wouldn't we have saved a great deal of monP-y, travel time and frustration if we had simply attP-nded state schools closer to our homP-s? 
Lately, I have been asking myself these very questions. Amidst the latest student council uproar, GLND/SMC protest, or attack on Patrieia O'Hara for defending the Catholic Church. I have begun to wonder if there really is anything HIGIIT with NotrP-Dame and Saint Mary's-or does only rusted iron lie beneath a gilded dome? 
Although many people will quickly tell us that college has very little in common with real life. I know that at least one aspect of real life has invaded our campuses: a seething, occasionally flaring negativism. This perplex­ing word tumbles around one's mouth like peas from South Dining Hall. Each day we open The Observer and read about the latest crisis or demonstration among the student body. Much like the real world, our campuses seem to haw~ as many problems as they do people. 
In light of all the imperfections and hassles we face, do we have anything to give thanks for in this Catholic university as we near Eastnr? 
Often the great irony of journalism is that somn of the most important and positive events occurring never make the front page of a newspapnr or magazine. We never read that students involved in the Children of Mary recentiy completed a month long consecration to the Virgin Mary or that Stations of the Cross in the Basilica last week lutd a good atten­dance. Indeed, each week many of the service projeds going on at Notre Dame's Circle K overflow with volunteers, yet most of the stu­dent body will never know. We may read about the latnst sports victory, but do we care about the small everyday victories we as a stu­dent body achieve? 
Perhaps we should all brieflyreevaluate where we are and what we truly care about. 
Upperclassmen, think back to your fresh­man year. Freshmen. look back to August. Most of us carne to college knowing few peo­ple. Leaving behind parents and high school diques, we have, since then. built new rela­tionships. Doing so, we have subsequently built up our own private n\sumes of invaluable Axperiences: getting lost with friends o!T cam­pus. learning to like a freshman roommate and going to the first formal. 
Long after the angry headlines or editorials criticizing the University have yellowed and remain only as part of The Observer's morgue, these more personal, smaller things will remain with us. 
Perhaps this Easter we have more than one resurrection to celebrate. Although we as stu­dents may never rise on our own accord from the dead, we ean at least silently celebrate the fact that each of our experiences, whether positive or negative, is helping us to undergo a quiet transformation into true adult life. While our "resurrection" may take four or more years to accomplish. we can do it with the hopes that one day our work will pay o!T. We attend the highest ranking Catholic university in the nation. We are future political leaders, doctors and teachers. Despite everyday hur­dles, we have a promising future ahead of us. 
Let's not allow the "mud" !lying around campus from the construction slow us down. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Sean Smith  Michael Vanegas  
Christopher Shipley  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Tom Roland  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Laura Petelle  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Joe Stark  

Tho Obmv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during cx;,.m and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of th< Associat<d Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Monday, April 6, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 

Confusion settles in after assault rebuked 

plaint seriously and used every possi­After almost a week of increased CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
ble measure to protect students whi!A security and heightened student 
investigating the incident. awareness, students have mixed reac­
But University Police Chief Mike tions following yesterday's announce­
Sheffield said "There were some obvi­
VIRGINIA 

ous things right away that a trained alleged assault in the first-floor bath­ment by the University Police that the 
investigator could see inconsistencies room of Cauthen House never 
in." occured. 
These incongruities did not deter Although the police department and 
their investigation. however. the Cauthen resident staff refuse to 
Curtis said the alleged victim could comment on the details of the incident. munity awareness," Curtis said. not describe tlw perpetrator, which any concern about police covering up She said police and University hampered their search for the pre­evidence in the case can be dispelled Community Service Officers, unarmed sumed attacker. with the victim's apparent confession. security officials who patrol academic Although resident staff have asked 
"The alleged victim admitted the buildings, worked side by side to Cauthen residents not to discuss the incident did not occur," University ensure security in the Cauthen House incident, some students have formed Police Spokeswoman Kirsten Curtis area since Thursday night's alleged their own ideas about the assault. said. assault. "We think the girl had issues with 
Police continue to protect the identi­She said police stationed at least her mentality, but we do not think she ty of the student who filed the false three officers at the dorm around the had evil intentions. We are more wor­report. clock and manned asign-in desk for ried about her safety than about blam­
"There is a tough line between pro­students at the building's entrance. ing her," an anonymous Cautlum resi­tection of the victim and raising com-She added that police took the com• dent said. 
• INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
Student campaigners admit fraud 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Two of the four IU Student Association tickets admitted Thursday to voter fraud during Tuesday and Wednesday's elections. Campaigners for the Orensten-Roman-Abrams­Schroder and the Taha-Doty-Brodnax-Jenkins tickets 
. obtained social security numbers and personal identification from voters to cast votes through the World Wide Web. This process violates !USA election codes, said Jim Gibson, direc­tor of student activities and assistant dean of students. According to the Code of Student Rights, Hesponsibilities and Conduct, use of a student's personal identification is a direct violation of the Code. IUSA election coordinator Gary Shy ken said these fraudulent campaign practice are grounds for contestment, which means anyone can demand considera­tion for an investigation of the ticket. Current IUSA presi­dent, Dave Orensten, a senior, said this was one of the rea­sons the ticket created and distributed a flier to greek sup­porters Sunday at ORAS headquarters called, "How to Get the Vote Out in a Greek House." 
• PENN STATE UNIVERSITY Anti-abortion display sparks protest 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
On one side of Pollock Hoad, a group of protesters waved signs, blew whistles and shouted chants. On the opposite side, groups sat in front of an anti-abortion display, silent in prayer. In response to the Center for Bin-Ethical Reform's pro-life photo display, several student organizations arranged a protest yesterday. The Genocide Awareness Project shows images of Holocaust victims and the victims of racial violence along with images of aborted fetuses. Protesters chanted "Have real respect for the dead" and held signs that read "Every tragedy is unique" and "I con­sent to my own body." The protest was organized by stu­dents from the Penn State chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, Womyn's Concerns, Women's Advocates and The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life. Students not affiliated with these organizations also attended the protest. Many women attended the protest to give merit to the pro­choice viewpoint, said junior Danielle Tarris. 
• UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Student-fee lawsuit trend grows 
MADISON, Wis. 
Several students at public universities across the nation have followed the path blazed by UW-Madison students, and filed suit against their universities claiming its manda­tory student-fee systp,ms are unconstitutional. Students of the University of Minnesota and Lane Community College in Oregon are currently suing their universities in federal court. Several other public universities in California. Iowa and Virginia have created a "voluntary" segn~gated fee sys­tem. Jordan Lorence, the attorney representing students in the UW system lawsuit, is also representing tlw five University of Minnesota students in a similar case. Lorence said he believes lawsuits against the mandatory payment of fees by students to groups they object to is a national trend. "The reason why these lawsuits am happening is because of the political aetivism of the funded groups is so extreme and so intense," he said. "If the fens only funded the ski club and the Chinese checkers society, thorp, would bn no lawsuits around the country." 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY UC Regents defend admission policy 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
UC officials announced yesterday that the large number of underrepresented minorities accepted to at least one of its nine campuses may soften the blow of the drastic decline in blacks, Latinos and Native Americans at UC Berkeley and UCLA. According to a systemwide review of admissions numbers, blacks, Latinos and Native Americans account li>r 
15.4 percent of all admitted students this year compared with 17.6 last year-a 13.7 percent decline, eomparnd to the 54.7 percent drop that UC Berkeley saw in figures released Tuesday. UC spokesperson Terry Colvin said that for the system's applicants, a student was counted once for either getting o!Tered admission to or getting rejectnd from at least one UC campus. lie said the less competitive UC schools were most likely to accommodate underrepresented minority applications as well as all other applications. "The losses at the more selective schools have been o!Tset by cam­puses that are less selective," Colvin said. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather<~~>forecast for noon, Monday, April 6.
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperature' 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
·························{H L 
Monday ~59 45 Tuesday ~ 56 44 Wednesday Q, 55 40 
\ 
...............
Thursday cC:1 52 36 
COLD WARM STATIONARY
l 
C 1998 Accuweather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L B ~ [Til 0 . fZj 8 {) eJ.u
Friday d 51 36 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
~1'-"\','' 
Via AssccltJfed PrtJss 
Atlanta 74 42 Dallas 75 55 New York 54 52 Aurora 52 34 Denver 52 43 Phoenix 64 52
4,~,QA~~·@Q (f ~ u 
Baltimore 63 35 Honolulu 90 71 San Diego 65 53 
Showers T·storms Rain Fl,;rries s"noW Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 52 34 Los Angeles 58 50 Seattle 52 43 
Via Assoctated Press GraphiCsNet 
Chicago 58 35 Miami 76 64 St. Louis 65 44 
I . . I 
' ' 
~ -~-----------~---­
.\ londay, April 6, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NO-sponsored conference tackles issues of war, peace, 
By ERIN LUM  poverty  to art and the media.  
News Writer  According to Anne Monaghan, public­ 
ity coordinator for the event, "The idea  
Bringing people of various back­ was to plant seeds in the minds of con­ 
grounds together to speak about their  ference participants about what barri­ 
experiences with war and peace was  ers we've created, recognize those and  
the focus of a two day conference at the  try to dismantle them; also to try to  
Hesburgh Center for International  recognize how cultures of violence and  
Studies this weekend.  peace are side by side in the home,  
The conference, entitled "Talking  school, and community."  
Across  Boundaries:  Cultures  of  One unique aspect of the conference,  
Violence, Cultures of Peace," was the  according to Johansen, was the way in  
brainchild of Notre Dame faculty mem­ which roundtable discussion groups  
ber Ruthann Johansen,  were set up to facilitate  
who teaches a cour~e on  dialogue among partici­ 
images  of  war  and  pants.  Facilitating  
peace in literature.  'WHAT I OBSERVED ...  these roundtable dis­ 
"What I observed [in  WAS THAT STORIES  cussions were "reflec­ 
the  course I  was  that  tion teams," comprised  
stories and poems had  AND POEMS HAD THE ABILI- of  three  members  
the ability to brenk bar- TY TO BREAK BARRIERES.'  whose task it was to  
riers." Johansen said. "I  bring attention to topics  
began to play with the  that could be devel­ 
idea of bringing people  RVTHANN JOHANSEN  oped,  and  minimize  
together to speak about  domination of the dis­ 
their experiences with war and peace  cussion by any individual participant.  
as a way to reframe stories that keep  "Everyone in the roundtable is set up The Observer/Monica Garza  
us locked into narrow perceptions of  to be among equals," Johansen said. Children's drawings are displayed on bulletin boards to help convey the meaning behind  
our place in the world in relation to  "The roundfables are run by students, peace and violence at a conference held over the weekend in the Hesburgh Center of  
war and peace."  International Studies. .instead of faculty, to try to invert the  
The conference, which was coordi­nated by masters students in the Peace Program and undergraduate students concentrating in peace studies, began Friday with poetry readings, personal interpretations of war, and perfor­mances by the Filipino American Association (FASO). The following day brought together students, faculty and members from the local community to speak about their experiences with a variety of issues, ranging from international violence and  traditional power assumptions. "Faculty can attend, but have to behave." One such roundtable discussion group focused on the representation of images of war and peace through art and the media. Rise Silas, who runs a program called "Pictures of Hope" through the Broadway Christian Church Youth Group, spoke of how the children who participate in the pro­gram use photography as a way to rep­resent their community as a place of  hope and joy. "When they capture images, it allows them to tell their story through their eyes," she said. "Everyday you hear negativity about the southeast side of South Bend. The (children) can see the negativity, but they can also see the good in the church, their friends ... it's about what they think is important in their lives and their community." Also discussed was the use of symbols as a tool to convey meaning, and how they have been manipulated by the  mass media. Discussant Anne Montgomery of the Notre Dame College of Business spoke of how peace move­ments and everything these movements encompass come to mind through something as simple as a peace symbol. "Most symbols are traditional, and there's an assault on them by the mass media," she said. "But we know that symbols can be useful. The question is can we, through art, develop imagery that is inclusive, and how difficult is it?"  

No Summer Plans?? 
SuMMeR SeRviCe 
PRoJEcTS 
AVA/LAB££(ND students only) 
•$1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 
•8 Weeks volunteer work In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: at the Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available in: Charleston, SC education & community outreach (car) Charlotte refugee program, tutor, etc. Cincinnati local student Cleveland local student Columbus, OH local student Detroit Red Cross -Bone Marrow Drive 
La Sed -Hispanic Comm. Cntr Ft. Wayne Boys & Girls Club (car) Fort Lauderdale Covent House-teens (male-car) Idaho La Posada -migrant workers (spanish) Indianapolis St. Phillip Neri -kids program Kokomo, IN YWCA shelter for women and kids Michigan City,IN camp for devel. disabled adults Plymouth, IN Boys & Girls Club Dixon, IL Disabilities program and more 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Stop in for more information or call: Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1384 

CASTING & ANGLING 
CLINIC Three Sessions 6:00-7: 15 PM Open to ND Students & Employees $8.00 Class Fee 
CLASS DATES 
APRIL 14 
APRIL 21 
APRIL 23 

Classes Held in the joyce Center, Rolfs & Campus Lakes Equipment Provided but Bring Own if Possible Register in Advance at RecSports 
---~-­
.-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 6, 1998 
Garrick 
continued from page 1 
he said. 
Sister Theresita Creighton. coordinator of ministry in the Basilica, agreed. 
"!Garrick's preaching] was too long and too dramatic." she said. "lltl was my opinion that we all agreed. It had nothing to do with his being gay." 
Creighton added that the prob­lem with Garrick's preaching had begun before Garrick dis­closed his sexual orientation in April 1996. 
.lenky noted that the selection of priests to say Masses in the Basilica is usually "based on the preferences of the congrega­tion." 
In some cases. .Jenky explained, he would re-assign a 
Anti-Klan 
continued from page I 
that city at that time. 
"As an economist I am also interested in this rally because the distance between black and whit1~ in this culture has never bmm larger," she added. 
Brandon Williams. former Zahm Hall senator. turned his attention to the Klan rally that will take place on April 11. "I agree to a large extent that we should not give the KKK the attention that they seem to want," he said. 
I 
"But, as the political philoso­pher Edmund Burke once said, The only way for evil to succeed is for good people to do nothing.' We should stand together to make sure that something as 
disgusting as a Klan rally will be 
I erased from this country's future. It will only be a distant memory of a sad past." 
l ! He then played for the crowd a tape recording of a speech given by Senator Hobert Kennedy to a predominately African­American audience in 
I Indianapolis on the day that King was shot. 
Glenda Hae Hernandez. a eommissioner on the South Bend Commission on Human Hights, commented on the racial prob­lems that she has seen in the South Bend area since moving hero in 11)65. 
"I wanted my children to grow up comfortable with all types of people," she said of her move. "But there still exists discrimina­

251-0674 
MATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT! 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST ChefIn Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 

particularly popular preacher even though he himself disliked that person's homilies. 
But in Garrick's case. he said, "the phone rings, and people say, 'Who was that priest? He preaches too long.'" •· 
He estimated that Garrick's homilies normally lasted 20 to 25 minutes. Garrick estimated that his homilies in the Basilica lasted 15 to 20 minutes. although he admitted that occasionally he might speak longer. 
Jenky also clarified the appar­ent inconsistency between Campus Ministry's earlier state­ment that the Basilica had received letters of complaint about Garrick's homilies, and the current statement that the com­plaints were in the form of phone calls. 
The letters in question, Jenky said, were received not by the Basilica, but by Bishop .John D'Arcy of the Diocese of Fort 
tion. There still is a devaluing of the property in some areas of town and a devaluing of the peo­ple who live there. 
"When I first joined the com­mission, I hoped that !this dis­crimination] would stop," she added. "It hasn't. But I challenge you to work with others to elimi­nate it." 
Williams' poem, "No Hainbow, No Pot of Gold," presented and analyzed signifigant events in African-American history. In the last stanza he asks people to accept other across racial and ethnic boundaries. 
"Are you willing to aecept the many faces of the many races," he asks. "The many individuals, from different places? I If not you're rejecting color, thus rejecting the color code. I With no color there's no rainbow. No rainbow, no pot of gold11" 
Charlyn Henderson, current president of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP, took the podium to urge for unity within the University community. 
"I was disturbed by the cam­pus newspaper, the very heart of this University publishing some­thing that deemed our brothers Wayne/South Bend. 
Garrick remembered only one such complaining letter from March 1995, which he had in his possession and which was sent to the Bishop only through him­self. 
Garrick denied that the lack of invitation could have been relat­ed to the quality of his homilies, saying he had not been told that his preaching was of "poor quali­ty. 
"They could have gotten to me about the bad homilies," he said. "That was imprudent." 
Garrick claimed Wednesday that the first word he heard of either the "poor quality" of his homilies or of his not being invit­ed to the Basilica to say Mass came from the the Nov. 7, 1997, conversation with Jenky. 
In that conversation. Garrick reportedly learned that he had been taken off the list of cele­brants at the Basilica. But 
and sisters to be aliens," she said. "Just in the last few weeks; it highlighted a crime by a white female ... but once the University got a hold of it, it all changed, because nothing like that could ever happen at Notre Dame. " 
She went on to quote from African-American poet Langston Hughes. 
Jim Langford, head of the Notre Dame press, spoke near the end, urging everyone in attendance to act more like chil­dren in their dealing with other races. 
"We opened a camp for kids and we get kids of all races there, and I have never seen a single raeial ineident between the children," he said. "Children don't hate on their own. Someone teaches them to hate in the name of Jesus ... but as Jesus said, unless you become like little children you cannot enter the kingdom of God." 
After speeches by former Student Senators Lauren Henning and A.J. Boyd, the rally ended with a prayer for open­mindedness and an impromptu concert by Rejoiee Black Catholic Choir. 
Garrick had thought that it was Father Richard Warner of Campus Ministry, and not Jenky, who took him off the list. 
Jenky contends that Garrick must hav_e misunderstood what he said. He said that it was he, and not Warner, who had origi­nally wanted to take Garrick off the list of celebrants. 
"Father Warner told me there had been mention of the poor quality of my homilies" in a con­versation on .Jan. 26 of this year, according to Garrick; Jenky said Warner approved of the decision only after Jenky approached him. Warner could not be reached for comment. 
"It isn't as though IGarrickl hasn't heard that he preaches too long," said Jenky, who recalled two instances in which he says Garrick was told as much but could not elaborate. 
When asked. Garrkk admitted "it certainly is possible" that he 
NAACP 
continued from page I 
Irish eornerbaek and two-time All-American track star Allen Rossum. While leading the foot­ball team in punt and kickoff returns, Rossum excelled by graduating early in January with a degree in marketing. 
Freshman of the Year honor was given to Charlyn Henderson, the 1998 president of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP. 
Annette Henderson tearfully accepted her Senior of the Year award after an introduction by senior Qiana Lillard. Henderson has never held office in an ethnic organization, but acted as multicultural com­missioner in Knott Hall in 1997. 
Claire Joly, an assistant pro­fessor of American studies, was presented with the first Erskine Peters Award for her dedica­tion to ethnic study. Joly was praised by Chandra Johnson, for her reverence to African-had been told this at some point. He reported one conversation with Jenkins in which Jenkins told him a homily at a Corby Hall Mass was too long. 
Yet Garrick added that, in that case, the two disagreed as to whether that 15-minute homily was too long. 
.Jenky said that, though Garrick had been told his preaching was too long in other places, such as Corby llall, this connection may not have been made to Garrick specifically in the context of the Basilica. 
Garrick's lack of invitation, he said, was not the result of any official orders. but rather a deci­sion made by the Basilica staff out of prudence. 
.Jenkins' statement noted that Garrick was not "suspended," as only a bishop can suspend a priest from his ministries. · 
No priest has ever been sus­pended at Notre Dame. 
American culture. 
Professor Erskine Peters, a specialists on African­American literature, died on March 9 from pneumonia. Peters led a Ford Foundation summer institute on cultural diversity for the faculty of Notre Dame. 
A special President's Award was presented to D'.Juan Francisco and Frances Shavers for their administrative service to Notre Dame's chapter of the NAACP. Francisco is the direc­
tor  of  Alumni  Clubs  and  
Student  Programs  for  the  
Alumni  Association,  and  

Shavers is the Life Skills Coordinator for the department of athletics. 
The evening also included music and dance performances by Vibe, Voices of Faith Gospel Choir and the Darlene Blackburn Dance Troupe. 
The troupe entertained the crowd with traditional African dance. Prince Havanna Bey enchanted the crowd with his d'jembe while Tyehimba Mtu showed off his Congolese drum with a long solo which brought long cheers from the crowd. 

If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summer classes at Holy Cross College may be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide variety of quality general education courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available.* 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also getting ahead in your studies. Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sessions I and II, as well as for 
·+ll(ll.'\
the 1998 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. CHOSS 
. CULLE(;J·: 
Session I -May 18 to june 25 Office of Admiss'"·'• 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame. IN 46556
*Session II -June 29 to August 6 
(219) 239-8400. ext. 22 • Fax (219) 233-7427 e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 
*On-campus student housing available for Session II only 


Monday, April 6, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Swiss to build Titanic replica 
BASEL, Switzerland 
Swiss and American businesses are joining forces to build a new Titanic, a Swiss newspa­per reported Sunday. The partners hope to recreate history in launching the ship from Southampton on April 10, 2002, almost 90 years to the day after the original vessel set sail on its one and only voyage across the Atlantic, Zurich's weekly SonntagsZeitung reported. The 900 foot-long ship will have places for 2,000 people and will be built to the same scale and detail as its predecessor ­although with 21st century technology, said the report. It will cost between $400-600 mil­lion to build, the report said. "We want this to be the crowning glory of the Titanic eupho­ria." Walter Navratil, European spokesman for the U.S. partners, is quoted by SonntagsZeitung as saying. 
Easter egg hunt turns violent 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. 
A church-sponsored Easter egg hunt turned into a free-for-all. Some 5,000 people were drawn to Saturday's event held by the World Harvest Church. which featured a pile of thousands of artificial eggs containing Bible verses and pieces of candy. But when it came time to grab the treats, children were joined by anxious parents rushing the pile, and eggs and youngsters got trampled. Ten­year-old Lizzy Ellenwood managed to collect a few eggs, but complained that some kid pushed her in the stomach and another ran over her foot with a skate. "This isn't an Easter egg hunt. It's an Easter egg mas­sacre," said Joe Vetter, one of the adults watching the debacle. Church spokesman Ryan Julison called the event a success, but said that next year the church will make sure everyone realizes it's for the children, not the adults. 
Landslides devastate Iran 
TEHRAN, Iran 
Heavy rains unleashed a landslide that tore through a remote village in. central Iran on Sunday, leaving at least 55 people missing and feared dead, the Iranian news agency reported. Rescue teams found no survivors in the village, located near the town of Farsan in Charmahal-va-Bakhtiyari province, the Islamic Republic News Agency said. The village was not identified by name and no other details of the landslide were immediately available. The landslide came just days after another one buried the near­by village of Abke Rescue. Workers using heat-sensing equipment found no signs of life Sunday in the rubble of Abkennareh, a gov• ernment official said. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1855.40
8983.41 

+2.44 
NYSE: 583.08 +1.04 
S&P 500: 
1122.70 -3.22 +2.68 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
~UM~~~~ IIS:JS;fB '~l 1-:H a.:~:K,[ ~r,AJ~ £Bii:E 
VININGS INVEST  VI PIS  53.85  1.7500  5  
GLOBAL INTELI.ICO  GBIT  51.67  .9688  2.8437  
TEARDROP GOLF-WT  TDRPW  51.61  1.000  2.9375  
SEACHANGE UTL  SEAC  47.37  2.8125  8.75  
ROCKY MTN INT-VT  RMIIV  46.05  4.3750  13.875  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
SIMON TRANSPORT SIMN -39.42 -5.9375 9.125 VIASOFT INC VIAS -34.02 -9.3125 18.0625 IMNET SYSTEMS IMNT -30.08 -6.7500 15.6875 CENTURY INDS-8 CIV8 -27.27 -0.7500 2.00 THRUSTMASTER INC TMSR -26.53 -3.2500 9.00 
Ukraine recovers from mine blast 

ASSOCIATED PRESS 
DONETSK, Ukraine 
Crossing paths with rescuers retrieving bodies, investigators descended into a coal shaft Sunday to determine what caused an accident that killed 63 miners, Ukraine's worst mine disaster this decade. Above ground, distraught families watched as crews carried the last of the victims out of the Skachinskoho mine in Donetsk, a city of 1.1 million about 390 miles southeast of Kiev. 
Emergency workers in neon-orange suits rushed between the entrance to the shaft and waiting ambulances. Relatives leaned on one another for support, many weeping. 
The two teams of investigators began looking into the causes of Saturday's methane gas explosion and fire. 
Skachinskoho has developed a rep­utation for being one of the most dangerous of the country's deterio­rating mines because of its tendency for methane buildups, Russia's NTV reported. 
Methane, a naturally occurring col­orless and odorless gas that seeps out of coal seams, can build up easily in poorly ventilated mine shafts, and a spark can ignite it. 
Deputy Premier Mycola Biliblotskiy, who is heading the government investigation commission in Donetsk, told Ukrainian state television on Sunday the cause of the accident was "a violation of safety regulations dur­ing work." 
"Methane cannot explode by itself. We should look into human factors," he said. 
The blast occurred at a depth of more than 3,600 feet, according to Ivan Dunayev, a spokesman for the Emergencies Ministry. 
There were 264 miners at work when the blast happened. 
Forty-five miners remained hospi­talized Sunday, said Pavlo Kozlov, from the Donetsk region Emergencies Ministry. Many were seriously burned. 
The mine was the ·site of indepen­dent Ukraine's worst previous coal accident, in August 1992, when six miners and 11 rescue workers were killed in a methane gas explosion. 
Saturday's blast was Ukraine's worst coal mine accident since the former Soviet republic gained inde­pendence in 1991, Dunayev said. Accidents have become endemic in Ukraine's coal industry, part of an overall pattern of post-Soviet deterio­ration. 
Aging equipment, negligence and a shortage of funds have contributed to the poor safety conditions in Ukraine's 229 coal mines that are still working. On-the-job accidents killed 290 coal workers last year, and more than 160 miners had been killed this year before Saturday's blast. 
President Leonid Kuchma signed a decree designating Monday a nation­al day of mourning, state television reported. 
J • -r. .., . . '1 ~ 
• • '.a •:. I 
.------~---------~---~-----------~~-~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 6 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: .309 Haggar, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Hearhcr Cocks MANAGING EI>ITOR IIUSINESS MANAG~R Brian Reinrhaler Kylo Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EI>ITOR Hearher MacKenzie 
NI\WS EDITOR ................Manlu:w Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ........................Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR.. .. ... Edumlo l.lull AD DL~IGN MANAGER ....................... Brm Huelat SPORTS EDITOR.... . ............. Kathloon Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ............ Michael Brouillet ScENE EI>ITORS........................... Sarah Dybg WED ADMINISTRATOR ................Jennifer Breslow 
Kristi KlitM.:h CONTROt.U:R.. .............................. Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EI>ITOR............. Shannon Ryan I'IIOTO EI>ITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
'('he (.)h~crvcr ill the independent ncwllpapc:r puhli!!hc:d by the studt·nts of the.: Univcr.~it}' ofNmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs not necessarily rdlet:t the: puhcies of the .ldministrJtinn elf ddtcr institution. The nc..-ws is reported ill. .tccur<~tdy and objccrivcly as poJ.sihlc. Unsigned cdi1nrials rcprcscm the opinion of du· majority of the Editor·in-Chief. Mam&ging Editor, A\sistomt M.maging Editor .md JcpJrtmcnt \."lliturs. Commentaries, letters and columns prescm the views of the authors, and not nccosarily cho.~c ofThe Observer. Vit"'Npoint space is available to all mcmhcrs of the Notre Dame/Saint M.1ry'.~ community ;~nd to JIJ reader!>. The free cxprc..-s.c;ion ofvarying opinions thruugh lcuers i.s cncouragOO. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 6.ll-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.l~Vnd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observc:r@d3.rwin.cc.nd.cdu Office Manager/General Information 6.~1-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsn<:ws.l @nd.c:du 
"... A~ YOU TAU<lN"TO IN=?..'' 
• fROM THE lEFT 
We Must Fight for 'One Big Union' 
The Pharisees of the University of Notre Dame continue to !lock around vulnerable members of the community like so many vultures tearing into car­rion. 
The recent resignation of an openly gay priest from Notre Dame came as more as a resounding "BOOM" to my 
David McMahon 
I 
I 
I ears than a simple wake-up call. This is the definitive proof that I and all others (the majority) at Notre Dame have been collecting over the years since GLND/SMC was thrown ofT of' campus. This is proof that Malloy's "Spirit of Inclusion" was a hollow doc­ument, as hollow as a proclamation of democracy in Burma. The University mouths the words, but in its foundation built on closets. it continues to punish those for some­thing that is as natural as breathing, namely, sexual orientation. It has been a hard battle for those of us who oppose the quiet vindictiveness with which the University has persecuted its gay members, continuing the darkness of the Inquisition, in complete contra­diction to the very dictates of' its high­est authority in Home. llow many students have suffered under the homophobic hammer of' injustice wielded by the magnates or power'? flow many faculty have remained quiet for fear of losing their livelihood? llow false is the University's position'? And how anti­quated is the creaking hierarchy of' power in the Catholic Church, with their oppressive regime focused on abolishing womyn's rights. persecuting gays, and blessing Capitalism or what­
• 000NESBURV 
ever system (Nazism) holds the sway of power? 
It is because of the incessant contra­diction within the Church, coupled with my belief in a different kind of sacred­ness, different from the monotheistic belief in a white European, male Jesus/God, that I now stand outside of the Church, a separatist who sees in the current path of world Christianity an adherence to beliefs which not only destroy the human soul, but threaten the existence of the planet by claim­ing a level of distinction from the laws of nature, a so-called stew­ardship of the earth's resources. By violating natural laws which govern our exis­tence as a species, and by pretending that by virtue of our reason that we arc not only morally superior, but divinely charged with the steward mission, we have en~ated a system out of con­trol in which the present state or the world religions arn nearly completely removed from the prophetic and mystic state of their founders. 
Many of these ideas arc more artieulately defined in my new bible, "The Story of B," by Daniel Stern, author of"Ishamael." Stern gives me a spiritual platform that had been lacking since leaving the Church, and a vision more wholistic than any­thing I experienced in the Church. In his hooks, he ties together so many dis­ciplines into a coherent whole, and revnals the founding myths of our civi­lization in a manner which will make you question your religion. 
Today, I don't have the same thirst for justice that I normally feel when writing this column. Today, I feel a deep sadness over the state of affairs at my Alma Mater, and a deep resounding sadness at the ineptitude with which our unelected leaders choose to direct us as a school. I feel sadness that the people in ROTC should have such a narrow view of power, and how it is wielded by our nation against the interests of the majority of the human race, and in the interests of' a few business elite. 
While at Notre Dame, I experienced a feeling of 
progress, that the University was lis­tening to its students .and faculty when we were organized and fighting for just causes like GLND/SMC or PeaceNet's ongoing struggle to bar a military organization from the great pacifist's campus. 
Looking in now, I see that the Administration was grossly misusing its power to either ignore or deceive its students. The students are the entire reason for an existence of a University! The reasons why we have been tri­umphing and failing in a never-ending 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
/(/H&N YCVlf/AL.K.IN 7H& t:t:vR, IT8CCOA183f?EAL-l Ffi?t1rl7H&N ON, l¥IPMU H4113 7lJ tX)I1& 70 7l3RM5 tf/ITH H/5 t:!ZP-5E'A!W 8160ll?YANI?HOMOPHOBIA I 
cycle of promise and lies is that power lies at the top, like in the Catholic church, and therefore, we are without the real power of democracy necessary for social change. 
J sec a path out of all the empty noise generated by the Administration. The path is revolt against their slipping tyrannical grip on our souls. There are a million manners in which to do this. First and foremost, to continue to 
protest and draw in the media on the issue, because that was the only 
time in my tenure there that the University reared its head into semblance of action. There 
needs to be a spirited core of dissent who will organize, 
organize, organize into a REAL student union that tackles other areas of con­cern, such as the presence of ROTC on the campus of a pacifist religion, gender equity, an expansion of meaningful and relevant 
academia_ We need mean­ingful change, scholarships for peace, not for war, and an in-depth analysis of how the University tends to its mission ~ from all involved in that mission. The mantra of the socialist 
movement, was, and still is, One Big Union. I agree with that statement, and it is more necessary than ever, now, in these times of apathy and in these times of wicked quietness. We must organize against those who would mis­use power, and ally ourselves with the true spirit of American patriotism and communion. 
David McMahon is a recent Notre Dame graduate who is enjoying his clam chowder in central Massachusettes while directing a pro­gram that helps ex-convicts. 1/e can be reached at dmcmahon32@hotmail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'The worst thing about 
some men is that when they are not drunk they are sober.' 
-William Butler Yeats 
' '' 
\' 
o I , I I ' ! I I I I 

VIEWPOINT 
page 7 
Monday, April 6, 1998 
• GUEST COLUMN 
The Law and Homosexual Marriage in Hawaii 
Editor's note. Professor Bradley will be giuing a lecture on this topic today at 4 p.m. in room 120 ofthe Law School. 
Tho most compelling constitutional ques­tion involving homosexuality is the prospect of Hawaiian same-sox "marriages" spread­ing to and across the mainland. propelled by thr-Constitution's Full Faith and Credit Clause [FFCC]. That provision. in relevant part, reads: "Full faith and credit shall be given in each state to the public acts, records. and judicial proceedings of every other state." 
The prospect. more specifically, is that after any one state recognizes same-sex couples as "married," they must be recog­nized as married all over. Then. Hawaii will be to same-sex marriage what Nevada used to be to divorce. And all state policies limit­ing marriage to its traditional constituency will comr-to naught. 
What. then. did the Hawaii Supreme Court say in the case of Ninia Baehr (who wanted to marry Genora Dancel). versus Lawrence Miike (the state official responsible for deny­ing Baehr a marriage license)? Not what you would expect. One would expect from all that has been reported about this deci­sion. that Hawaiian same-sex marriage is gay marriage, with its implicit approval of homosexual sexual activity. It is not. 
Hawaiian same-sex "marriage" turns out to bn no-sex "marriage." Consider footnote elevm1 of Baehr v. Miike (and you might want to keep a bottle of Scotch handy when you do) : '"Homosexual' and 'same-sex' marriages are not synonymous; by the same token. a 'heterosexual' same-sex marriage is. in theory, not oxymoronic ... Parties· to 'a union between a man and a woman' may or may notbe homosexuals. Parties to a same­sex marriage could be either homosexuals or heterosexuals." The court later said that "it is immaterial." "for purposes of the con­stitutional analysis germane to this case," "whether the plaintiffs [that is, the same-sex couplc~s. including Baehr and Doncell arc homosexuals." The court noted further that tho plaintiffs (Baehr and company) nowhere said that they were homosexual (or, hetero­sexual. for that matter). 
The llawaii Supreme Court discussed at length what most people have in mind when they speak of marriage. This the court asso­ciated with a right of privacy located some­where in the federal constitution, and called it the "federal construct" of marriage. It "presently contemplates unions between between men and women." This so-called "construct," the court said, had to do with the "fundamental rights of procreation, childbirth, abortion, and child rearing" (Yes, that sentence is grotesque; it is even a false statement of the law: single people possess 
. these rights, too. Except that husbands and fathers are notoriously outside the loop of the abortion decision.) 
Hawaiian marriage, however, swings free of the "federal construct," and therefore of the idea that marriage is a sexual, indeed reproductive, union (as the canonical and civil law mquirements of gender comple­mentarity and consummation attest). Let's call this -the sexual, reproductive union ­simply, marriage. Hawaiian "marriage" is radically divorced from it. 
Tho state's argument in the case was that given what marriage really is -that is, what marriage is metaphysically, morally, pre-legally -persons of the same gender cannot marry. "We believe," said the court, that this argument is "circular and unper­suasive," "an exercise in tortured and con­clusory sophistry." 
Instead. the Hawaii Supreme Court imposed upon the people of that state an unsurpassably positivistic definition of mar­riage. The court's notion of "marriage" is not, at least in principle, about sex ("gay" or otherwise) but about money. Calling it at one point a "legal partnership," the court listed fourteen specific benefits to which (the court's term of choke) this "legally con­fen·ed status" is the gatekeeper. Twelve of them were dearly economic advantages; the other two -easier name changing and the evidentiary privilege for spousal communi­cation-were relatively minor. The relation of this legal counterfeit to the real thing is entirely accidental: really married people 
.'. 
may find a commodious legal station in it, but the identity itself is a free-standing legal fiction. 
To what might we compare this new Hawaiian export? I would compare it to the 
. relation between churches and corpora­tions. Churches are virtually required by practicalities to incorporate themselves under state law. They need some legal iden­tity in order to acquire, hold and sell prop­erty, to maintain a bank account, to carry 
''T ET'S CALL THIS-THE UEXUAL, REPRODUCTIVE 
UNION -SIMPLY MARRIAGE. 
HAWAIIAN 'MARRIAGE' IS RADI­
CALLY DIVORCED FROM IT." 
on employment relations with workers, and so on. So, let us say that all churches are corporations (and if a few are not, my main point still holds). But not all corporations are churches. Indeed, most corporations are not churches, even though nonreligious cor­porations incorporate for many of the rea­sons churches do: to carry on orderly eco­nomic relations with people both within and without the corporation. But note well: Though all churhes are corporations there is exactly nothing about that legal status (being a corporation) that denotes, connotes or suggests the sacred. 
Hawaiian "marriage" stands in relation to real marriage roughly as corporations stand in relation to churches. The court used the same word -marriage -for what it other­wise clearly indicated were two different realities: the legal status of being "married" and the moral reality of it. (And the court did us no favor by calling the moral reality the "federal construct.") The Hawaii Supreme Court in fact described two differ­ent relations, and should have called the one of its creation by its proper name, "house­hold." Then we could say with intuition and common sense that other states need not treat Hawaiian householders as if they are married. Just as we could, in legal terms and by analogy say that no state is under a FFCC obligation to treat all out-of-state cor­porations as it treats in-state churches. Nike is not entitled to the favorable treatment that the Catholic Church might receive under state property tax laws. Hawaiian householders would not be entitled to, for example, the special privileges that married couples enjoy in some destination state. 
After the effective date, the position of other states should not be that Hawaii has expanded the definition of marriage in some mischievous, incremental way. Rather, Hawaii should be seen as having abolished marriage, legally speaking. 
This case provokes an important question concerning the relationship of traditRmaL marriage to the common good. Obviously, ·. any cogent answer to it will want to avail itself of a judicially denied premise -name­ly, that marriage really is a distinct some­thing and that it is good. This rhetorical handicap does not foreclose dialectical argu­ments. The main line of a response will, it seems to me, aim to show that where the law divorces marriage from its reality, as the law of permissive divorce has done, that reality becomes less and less culturally sus­tainable. to the point where the reality is hardly available as an option for choice, save to the heroic or otherwise deeply coun­tercultural. Simply put, how many Catholic young adults getting married today really believe that marriage lasts, notwithstanding civil divorce, until death? 
Same-sex or no-sex, it will not matter. After the battering it has taken from contra­ception and abortion (see the grotesque pas­sage above, for example), marriage will finally be conclusively separated from reproduction, as far as the law is concerned, by "marriage" Hawaiian-style. 
Gerard V. Bradley Norre Dame Law School 

"': 
.::~· 
For 7lllose Who Want Justice ... 
Here are 12 ways you can help achieve equal rights for gays, les­bians, and bisextialsatNotre Dame: · 
1·~ Co~e· olt:~:; =-.: · -= ·.. 2.. Parttcip<.tt~;~ 19 8.Honal Day of Silence on< April Si from 8 a.m. .to.fi p;m,,follow~ · raUyatStonehe:tige. 3, Express. yo · .lings with chalk. 
4. 
Write a letter to The Observer, Scholastic, South Bend Tribune, etc. 

5. 
Get a parent..or alumnito do the same. 

6. 
Join your favorite unrecognized student group. 

7. 
Put a pink triangleor rainbow flag on your backpack. 

8. 
Question anyonewho justifies discrimination. 



9. 
Don't let homophobic remarks and jokes pass without stating your disapproval. . .. 


10. Ask your friends "\Vhat they think about equal rights? 1 L Pray fol' ju& ow. . . . . 
12. Be. on t · tfor rallies; petitions, spe~kers, and much much more! 
· 
7B O'Hara Grace Apdl3, 1998 
• lETTER TO THE t!JITOR 
Lt. Gov. Kernan Great Choice as Commencement Speaker 
I am among the seniors who will soon be graduating from Notre Dame, and I have never written anything to The Observer. About the only peep that I have ever uttered to the powers-that­be was the time that I suggested that Jim, South Dining Hall's manager, keep the refried beans away from the nacho cheese so that the two don't get mixed together. I am pleased to say that Jim was very receptive to my sug­gestion. Lest you doubt my awareness of more serious issues, however, please keep reading. 
As I read the article announcing that Lt. Gov. Joseph Kernan will be delivering the commencement speech, I was a little bit disap­pointed in the views which were expressed by Beth Nolan, presi­dent of the senior class, and Matt Griffin, former student body pres­ident. This is a response to them and to you silent others who feel as though you have been slighted and your graduation day cheap­ened with the choice of a "no­name" speaker like Lt. Gov. Kernan. I hope that when you're done reading this you'll realize that Lt. Gov. Kernan (although not as famous as Margaret Thatcher) is every bit as good of a choice. .. First thing's first. Lt. Gov. Kernan has had experiences in his lifetime -notably his time in Vietnam as a POW -that most of you will thankfully never dupli­cate in your own lives. However, if we reflect upon the daily tor­ture that he and his fellow POW's experienced -one day of which would have been enough to help any of us to appreciate our free­dom -we can at least learn from his experiences and try to appre­ciate what we have without first having to be deprived of it. Do you think Lt. Gov. Kernan knows how valuable his freedom is? Why do you think he's now in public office? Surely it's not for the respect. After all, if he was in it 
What's on your mind? E-mail Viewpoint at Observer.Viewpoint.l @nd.edu 
for respect, remarks from people like Nolan and Griffin would be enough to convince him that pub­lic life just isn't worth it. No, I think Lt. Gov. Kernan has dedi­cated himself to public life because he fully understands how valuable his freedom is, and he wants to protect it for those that he serves. 
Secondly, we must remember why Lt. Gov. Kernan is coming to talk to us. Here he is, Notre Dame graduate; former Prisoner of War; recipient of the Navy Commendation medal, two Purple Hearts and the Distinguished Flying Cross; former mayor of South Bend; and current Lt. Gov. of' the state of Indiana. 
Now consider the fact that this man (the one with all of the admirable qualities that I just list­ed) is coming to honor us! Us! A bunch of 20-somethings who still have (God willing) 50 or 60 years ahead of us. I can't believe it! Honoring us for what? We haven't done much yet that compares to what Lt. Gov. Kernan has done, and yet he and everyone else there will be honoring us because they see the potential in each of us to become the Madeleine Albrights, the Bruce Babbitts, the Marian Wright-Edelmans, the Mary Robinsons, the Nelson Mandelas, and, yes, the Joseph Kernans. Do you think it custom­ary to question the credentials of the people that would honor you in that way? I don't think so. 
I can't wait to hear what Lt. Gov. Kernan has to say, and I'm honored and flattered that he'll be there to say it. 
Todd Alan Mitchell Senior, Carroll Hall April4, 1998 
0 
} . . . E··r1. . . ; ~ d. • ~ 
page 8 --------------~----------------~OBSERVER -'--------------------Monday, April 6, 1998 
'Space'tacular f/x over '60s camp 
their travels. 

The part of the film that really forced me to change my mind was the special effects. They
Director: Stephen Hopkins 
were, in the immortal words of .Jem, "truly,
Starring: William Hurt, Gary Oldman, Matt 
truly, truly outrageous!" 
LeBlanc, Mimi Rogers and Lacey Chabert 
Every spaceship, every alien being, every planet and every futuristic room looked real. The highly touted team brought 

together to do the pro­(Out offive shamrocks) 
ject proved 
By JOE STARK 
Srenc Movie Critic 
Wlwn I bought my ticket for "Lost in SpaeP," I couldn't help asking mysPlf. "llow many years ofT my life will endur­ing this moviP take?" 
Waiting in line in front of me wern two 13-year-olds obviously on a "mom and dad droppPd us off at the mall date," and in back of 11111 was a family of live. "Mommy I want Goobers and popcorn!" squealed a young one. "This movie is going to kill me," I thought as the sob­bing child started her "popcorn or dmtth" dane!'. 
I prepared for the worst. But to my shuck, the movie started off with incred­ible special effects and an intriguing plot. I was captivated by the adventures of the futuristic family. 
As a young person, I did my share of tnlevision-watching, and of course I had watched "Lost in Space" reruns many times. But still the movie began to take me down mPmory lane in that it not only mirrored characters. it also expounded upon the situation of the explorers. 
The writers and producer/director Stephen I lopkins actually explained the situation of thn Hobinson family, and how they came to be lost in space. I really enjoyed this aspect of the movie because I remembered the charcters, like the shady Doctor Smith and the innocent Will Hobinson, but I really didn't remember the details behind 

Director: Sammo Hung Starring: jackie Chan, Gabrielle Fitzpatrick, Richard Norton and Miki Lee 

(Out of five shamrocks) 
By JOE KRAUS 
Scene Movie Critic 
The master of the pop martial-arts tilm is at it again. 
Hong Kong sensation Jackie Chan scores another win with his latest film, "Mr. Nice Guy," directed by Sammo I lung. For any of you that have ever seen a .Jackie Chan movie, you know that the plot does not matter and generally, what littln story line there is exists just to pro­vide <in excuse for Chan's amazing aero­batics. However. for all of you sticklers out there. here's a brief summary. 
Set in Melbourne, Australia, Chan plays an amiable chef on a popular cooking show. While minding his own business on his way home on11 day, Chan finds him­snit' coming to the rescue of Diana (Gabrielle Fitzpatrick}, a news reporter 
its unbe­
lievable talent by producing some of the !'inest special effects I've ever seen. Even if the movie starred Burt Reynolds and Dom Deluise and was titled "Smokey and the Bandit 3000," I'd still see it because of the efl'eets. 
That aside, the cast did a nice job of delivering some of the quirky lines and dramatic scenes that made the film more of an action movie. Wiltiam Hurt played Profesor Hobinson, the aloof father and scientific genius, very well by giving him an in­depth performnce of a father trying his best to balance a career, save the earth, and be a father to three "special" children. 
relationship, the sassy new Judy resists all the attempts of the hot-blooded Major. 
As expected, Lacey Chabert portrays a whining Penny Robinson. What else docs this "Party of Five" actress do but whine? Nothing. She whines so well that she doesn't have to do anything else. 
Jack Johnson portrays young Will Hobinson. The young actor did a great job in playing the child genius, adding more human qualities to the space boy. The new Will Robinson is yearning for 

Photo Courtesy of New Line Cinema 
Following the trend of putting ancient television on the big screen, "Lost in Space" offers '60s cheese with '90s special effects. 
His three children include a "Boogie his father's attention and still has the Nights" Swinger, annoying Claudia from "naive boy" attitude that befriends the "Party of Five," and a "Little Man Tate" robot and leaves him open to Doctor look-a-like. Smith's scheming. 
Heather Graham ("Boogie Nights"} Of course when dealing with child­plays Judy Hobinson, the eldest child hood TV memories nothing can be per­and doctor of the mission. Throughout feet. I didn't like the portrayal of Doctor the movie, a cute, "Friends"-like Smith at all. The old Doctor was evil in romance develops between Judy and the an inadequate cowardly way, but the dashing Major Don West, played by Matt new Doctor, played by Gary Oldman, LeBlanc of "Friends" fame. Although in was almost too evil. Dr. Zachary Smith the TV series Judy is the pursuer of the tries to kill the family and is always plot­
'Nice guy' Chan delivers thrills 
who is being chased by two rival gangs because of a video tape she possesses of a drug deal gone bad. After Chan rescues her, the tape is switched with one of Chan's cooking show tapes and Chan is in for way more than he bar­gained with the gangs. Things really get hot when drug lord, Giancarlo (Richard Norton) kidnaps .Jackie's girlfriend, Miki (Miki Lee). When it gets personal like this, you know Mr. Nice Guy has to take matters into his own 
hands. 
Now that the plot is out of the way, it is time to talk about the real reason any­body would see this tilm-Chan's stunts. To put it bluntly, the man is absolutely unbelievable. Scene after scene, Chan uses his hands, feet, and whatever other objects he can get his hands on to repeat­edly confound his adversaries, who by the way, always outnumber him at least 10 t? 1. The truly remarkable thing is that Chan's scenes arc not here and gone. They last ten to fifteen minutes a piece. The viewer is left almost as breathless as Chan himself. The man simply does not stop the whole movie. Coupling this with the fact that Chan does all of his own stunts, one sees why he is so incredible. 
This review would be incomplete with­out a rundown of the props of which ting. against the entire crew of the spaceship Jupiter Two. In the middl1~ of the movie, th!~ characteristic rP!ation­ship between the Doctor and Will starts to develop, but is left hanging as the Doctor evilly betrays the boy. The Doctor needed to be morH bumbling, less malicious. 
"Danger! Danger Will Hobinson!" The robot in this movie was also a little weak. The robot of old had those great quotes and silly arms that waved. The new robot is equipped with lasers, and 
doesn't come up with those great silly 
warnings. I felt that the robot could have been better developed in tlw character sense. The old robot was not just a metal logic spnwnr, but also best friend to Will and nemesis to th1~ Doctor. 
Mimi Hogers, a well established actress, recently made an appearancP 
' in "Austin Powers" as Mrs. Kensington. Even though she won't get an Acadmny Award for her role as Maureen Hobinson, wife and mother of tlw Hobinsons, she did a good job portray­ing the Hobinson's rnal commanding officer-the woman behind the rmm. 
Suprisingly, one of the most enjoy­able performancns was Matt LPBlanc's Major West. I thought for sure minus Hachnl, Monica. Phoelw. Boss, and Chandler, Joey would be lost in "Lost in Spaee," without a friend in the audi­ence. But I was proven wrong by the amusing and adventurous character 
Major West. 
As I left the theater, I could not believe the time. The movie was two hours and fifteen minutes long! I have to question my sanity at giving Lost in Space four out of five shamrocks. but I enjoyed the wholn thing. The movie never slowed down aftnr the first scene, the special effects wowed me, and the characters did a decent job of reminding me of the original cast. 
Maybe it was my negative attitude going into the theater, or maybe the special effects somehow altered my "consciousness," but tlw simple fact remains -I enjoyed the movie and would see it again. 
Chan makes use. Chan uses everything from elevators to walls to busses to tie­wraps and jack-hammers to give himself the advantage. He combines the sharp wit of a field general with the agility of Spiderman and the martial-arts skills of Bruce Lee. And he always remains Mr. Nice Guy. 
The movie is not without its problems. First, do not what exactly you are looking at. Also, for some reason Hung seems to be a big fan of the gratuitous slow-motion shot. There are so many slow-motion scenes thrown· 
• in for apparently no reason that it is frus­trating. However glaring these problems seem, they can probably be attributed to difJ'erent film styles in I long Kong and the United States; and they do not detract 
from Chan's circus 
go to see  on the screen.  
this film  Altogether, this  
expecting to  movie really was  
be blown  enjoyable. If you  
away by  have never s1~en  
anyone's  Jackie Chan  
acting abili­ before, do yourself  
ty. With the  a favor and go. lie  
exception of  is as hard-core as  
C h a n ,  they come and a  
w h o s e  gre.at showman.  
c h a r m  You will be treat1~d  
could win  to an aerobatic  
over any  display like you  
audience,  have never seen.  
the charac­ with a little come­ 
ters in this  dy and plenty or  
movie seem  wanton destruc­ 
more Hke  tion thrown in. If  
caricatures  you have the  
that border  Photo Courtesy of New Line Cinema  ehance to go S!~ll  
on annoy- Chan intrigues audiences with a bang-up perfor­ "Mr. NicP. Guy," it  
ing. The  mance in "Mr. Nice Guy."  is worth the  
bad dub  money. It is  

from Chinese into English does not help Chan's best American-released !ilm to the situation too much either. The cam­date. If you do go, make sum to stay for era work is decent, but sometimes Chan the credits. You get to see out-takes of moves so fast that the camera cannot Chan's stunts that will make you appreci­
keep up, and you are left wondering ate this Nice Guy even more. 
\ I • I I I I I 
• I I 
' I ' 
1 \ \ ' 


• VIDEO PICKS Of THE WEEK 

By MARTY HARRIS 
Scene Movie Criric 
Chivalry and subtitles. 
Put the two together and you have "The Horseman on the Hoof." This French film starring Juliette Binoche and Olivier Martinez is every roman-tie's dream come true. • 
Last seen in "The English Patient" delivering a lethal dose of morphine, Binoche finds love and adventure in this sweeping epic. 
Picture it: The 17th century French population is at the mercy of a partic­ularly nasty plague. 
People are happily carrying on a conversation one minute and taking their last, choking breath the next. 
Binoche's mission is to fight her way home across the countryside. She must avoid two evils: the fatal disease and the equally deadly quarantine. 
Anyone else would be left to her own wits. but Binoche is lucky enough to h a p p e n u p o n Martinez. 
Martinez plays a mysterious horseman seeking shelter on Binoche's roof. 
Yes, you guessed it. 0 I i vie r Martinez is not only well-built, but is also the ulti­

Juliette Binoche (an Ocsar-winner for The English Patient) 
mate gen­mend this
stars with Olivier Martinez in the French film, "The 
tleman. 
Horseman on the Roof." 
Without a second thought, he eagerly accompa­nies Binoche on her death wish ... um, I mean ... journey. 
You grow to love the dramatic, metallic click of his heels as he obeys Binoche's increasingly dangerous demands. 
The two main characters resist the temptation to test each other's sexual prowess. Instead, the gallant Martinez and courageous Binoche enjoy the inti­macy of mutual dependence. The change is refreshing. 
Typical of most foreign films, the dialogue is sparse but compelling. And what French film is complete without one appearance from Gerard Depardieu? You are treated to an appearance by the man himself, but the scene is short and very peripheral to the movie. 
There are few supporting roles, as Binoche and Martinez are usually seen traveling the cow,ntryside alone attempting to outrace the high death toll. 
The costumes are incredible and flattering (who doesn't look better in a corset?). Here are some other high­lights: 
Best Hair: Martinez's long locks win hands down. Few men can carry off this look with success but his low ponytail will have every female on the Concord to Paris quicker than you can say bonjour. 
Best Line: Oui, non ...who really cares what they are saying? Everything sounds beautiful in French. 
Best Scene: In front of a roaring fire, Martinez w o r k s feverishly to save Binoche from the fever. His passionate refusal to surrender the woman of his dreams to the here­after will inspire the lovelorn 
heart. I recom­
movie to the female population without reserve. 
For the guys I am less optimistic. Do you hate the existence of dialogue much less the audacity of having to read it? Does the thought of placing another's safety ahead of your own leave you baffled ( i.e. would you have been on the first life boat leaving the Titanic?)? If so, avoid this film at all costs. The story will make no sense to you. 
On the other hand if you enjoy an artsy movie every once in a while, "The Horseman on the Hoof" is the answer. 

At the theaters 
Barney's Great Adventure (Polygram) 
Mercury Rising (Universal) 
The Spanish Prisoner (Sony) 
Source: Moviefinder.com 
At the video store 
U-Turn (Sony) Bean (Gramercy) Fairy Tale: A True Story 
(Paramount) 
Finally, 'Titanic' is 
s u 
n 
k 
After fifteen 
dominating 
weeks at 
the top of 
the box 
office, 
"Titanic" is 
finally over­
taken by 
the film 
adaptation 
of the '60s 
television 
show, "Lost 
in Space." 
Photo courtesy of Paramount and Twentieth Century Fox 


Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 
1. 
Lost in Space ($20. 5 million) 

2. 
Titanic ($11.6 million) 

3. 
Mercury Rising ($1 0.8 million) 4. Grease ($5. 5 million) 5. Primary Colors($4. 7 million) 


6. 
Wild Things ($3.7 million) 

7. 
The Man in the Iron Mask ($3.5 million) 

8. 
As Good As It Gets ($3.4 million) 

9. 
Good Will Hunting ($3.3 million) 

10. 
The Newton Boys ($2.4 million) 


Source: NY Times AP online 


Video Title 
1. 
The Devil's Advocate 

2. 
The Edge 

3. 
The Game 

4. 
In & Out 

5. 
Air Force One 

6. 
The Full Monty 

7. 
G.l. jane 

8. 
The Peacemaker 

9. 
Mad City 

10. 
Mimic 


Source: Billboard Online 

I 1 • I • 
•.' I 
' I 
• f I !
' I ' ' I 
.-,. 
·-' ' 
' 
' ' 
r_ page 10 The Observer • CLASSIFIEDS Monday, April 6, 1998 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classitleds every business day li-om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame olticc, 314 LaFonune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including  
all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr to edit all classitleds for content without issuing refunds.  
1014 N. St. Louis St.  So the cosine is the adjacent over  Finn- Joe- 
NOTICES  II  FORRENT  4 bdrms, 2 baths. all appliances. furnished. Walking distance to cam­ the hippopotamus  Today stocks went down ... and a little to the left.  You haven't stopped by to see me lately, and it's breaking my heart.  
~----------------~  pus. 234-1440.  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  -Laura;)  But I have also been remiss in stop­ 
THE COPY SHOP  - Now Renting  babbling brooks in summer.  ping by to see you. Can you ever  
LaFortune Student Center  Campus View  FREE SUMMER STORAGE  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­ I hope I pass all my classes!  forgive me? I miss you (and Burt  
WE"RE OPEN EARLY. LATE.  1 & 2 Bedrooms  '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR.  place in winter. Love and joy for  and Bear, and. yes, even Deuce)  
AND WEEKENDS!!!  2 Blocks from campus  WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE.  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ College Park Apartment available  more than a simple classified can  
Mon -Thur  7:30am -Midnight  272-1441  234-3831/ 273-0482  ing professional couple would love  for sublet this summer-1998.  say.  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  to provide a newborn with love, joy  Call 284-4399 for more info.  -<sigh>­ 
Sat Sun  Noon -6:00pm Noon -Midnight  Second round of leasing at College Park Condominiums, few units still  FOR SALE  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523  Beware all my Little Satanic Ponies.  1 suppose I'll just have to content myself with sightings in the dining  
CALL 631-COPY  available. Please contact office for  Run to your stables immediately!  hall.  
appointment 272-0691.  1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert.  Joe is on the rampage!  -Laura;)  
WANTED  SUMMER SUBLET  5-speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters. $2,995.  LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR?  Kevin- This classified is dedicated to Gene  
Spacious furnished 1 bdrm (big  674-5104 Bob Hull  THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is  Stop harassing my Little Ponies!  Okerland. Pete Dog, and AI.  
CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR  enough for 2). $480/mo +utilities.  now accepting applications for next  -Photo Joe  Self-imposed nicknames are for  
JOBS -Excellent benefits. World  Call243-2621  For Sale: Convenient condo living  fall. Student positions are limited  losers, and AI stands by himself.  
Travel. Ask us how! 517-324-3090  just a few blocks from Notre Dame.  so apply early.  Kevin- 
ext. C55841  Very Reasonable Rent  Recently remodeled including bath­ To be more blunt, if you ever touch  SERENITY NOW!!!!!!  
Looking for mature adult, or grad  robm fixtures. 3 bedrooms. 2 full  Billiards is a really sadistic game  or deface my Ponies ever again, I  
Need a summer job?  student.  baths & access to clubhouse with  will process you like you've never  Top ten ways the Bible would have  
ND Alums looking for a warm.  Send inquiries to:  pool & work out room.  Call Trace  Don't fool yourself ... those billiard  been processed before.  been different if written by college  
energetic student to care for our 3  PTS  Cole at 243-9565 for more informa­ balls would kill you if they had the  -Photo Joe  students:  
children (ages 5, 3 & newborn).  1705 South Bend Ave.  tion.  chance ...  1 0) Loaves and Fishes replaced by  
I  ~  Daytime Daytime hours. no week­ends. June-mid-August. Live in or  So. Bend, IN 46637  For Sale, 90' Honda Accord (Whk)  Civil Engineering: Whoever controls  yes. "defenestrate" is a word.  Pizza and Chips 9) Ten Commandments are actually  
out (private bed/bath). Great loca­ ALL SIZE HOMES  $3,500 OBO. Email: vlow or call  the buildings, controls the WORLD!  so is "callipygian"  only five, but because they are dou­ 
tion in Pasadena. CA. Will pay  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Vince @ 257 1734  ble-spaced and written in Courier.  
travel to/from CA. Negotiable wage.  232-2595  If Jesus went to ND, he would live  Sean, how's the "I can't work" beat?  they look like ten.  
Call Mimi @ 626-794-5426 ore­mail MimiandPT@msn.com  2 College Park Apts avail for sum­ TICKETS  off campus.  And are you really intimidated by  8) Forbidden fruit would have been eaten because it wasn't dormfood.  
mer. 243-5668  I can give it to you in Italian!  me?  7) Paul's Letters to the Romans  
CUBS TICKETS!!!!  become Paul's E-Mail to the  
SUMMER AND FALL EMPLOY­ FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM­ SIX Cubs tickets for the 18th of  Go Cubbies!  Hey Kisrchfinnegandeeney! How's  Romans.  
MENT: DECISION SCIENCES  PUS.WASHER/DRYER.  April. Lower deck on the third base  This is the year!  it goin' you crazy kid?  6) Reason Cain killed Abel: They  
JOURNAL  FALUSUMMER.272-6551  line .... GREAT SEATS FOR  were roommates.  
Student who can work 8-12 hours  CHEAP. These are must sells, so  •••••• A FAIRY TALE ·-•••  C. O'N. who was it that induced  5) The place where the end of the  
per week. Must have an eye for  1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR  any offer for these tickets are  your H.O.?  world occurs: not the Plains of  
detail. organized & able to work  CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  appreciated.  Once upon a time there was a  Armageddon, rather Finals.  
independently. For more informa­ 272-6551  beautiful, self-assured, independent  K.R.-Let's go cycling together  4) Book of Armaments would be in  
tion call Lori Butchko, 631-9084,  Contact Bryan at X4948  princess.  sometime!  there somewhere.  
MW 8-5 or Friday 8-noon.  DOMUS PROPERTIES  3) Reason why Moses and follow­ 
NOW LEASING 2 HOMES Capacity from 6 -9 students  PERSONAL  One day, when she was out walking by a pond, she came upon a frog.  No, don't haffa .. Can't make me!  ers walked in desert for 40 years: They didn't want to ask directions  
Internet interships in Washington!  Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in  Jeff- and look like a Freshman.  
Journalism. web design. PR, public  student populated areas.  Hey -did you know..  The frog said, "If you kiss me, I will  Don't make me call you a tool.  2) Tower of Babel blamed for  
policy, sales! Call Ben: 202-408­ Completely remodeled and ready  become a prince. Then we can get  It's a great CD, and I hear your  Foreign Language requirement.  
0008 or interns@ interactivehq.org  for the 98/99 schoolyear.  We're open early, late, and week­ married, move into the castle with  Monday nights are suddenly free!  1) Instead of God creating the world  
Call Kramer at 674-2571  ends for your convenience!  my mother, and you can spend the  -Laura;)  in s1x days and resting on the sev­ 
Family of 1 1/2 year old and soon to  or 289-5999.  -: THE COPY SHOP - rest of your life cooking, cleaning.  enth, He would have put it off until  
be newborn, looking for part-time,  LaFortune Student Center  cleaning up after me, having my  Italiano 112F-03­ the night before it was due and then  
.....  flexible babysitter. Person must be available one day a  SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE Lease from June to Aug. 1.  Phone 631-COPY  children, and being forever grateful for it."  lo ho incontrato Eimi e il trombon­ista. Eimi e stata embarassata, ma  pulled an all-nighter and hoped no one noticed.  
week (part day) and some weekend  All houses are surrounded by other  Hey, wanna see my portrfolio??  lui non e state embarassato. E  
nights. Great extra money! Please  student rentals. Call Kramer at674­ That night, the Princess had frog  andato bene.  I guess I better get back to work  
call Traci or Ben at 291-3524.  2571 or 289-5999.  Thence, because this is mechanics  legs for dinner.  -Laura  before there's a Bill Hart-attack.  
Gerard V. Bradley, J.D. 


The Law and Homosexual Marriage 
•
In 
Hawaii 
"Tile court's decision in Hawaii has not simply expanded the definition ofmarriage in some mischievous, increme~tal way. Rather, Hawaii should be seen as having abolished marriage, legally speaking." 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
Gerry Bradley graduated Summa cum laude and first in his class from Cornell University Law School. Since 1992, he has been a professor at the University of Notre Dame Law School, where he teaches courses on Legal Philosophy, Constitutional Theory, First Amendment, Trial Advocacy, and Legal Ethics. 
Professor Bradley is the author of four books and over 70 articles and book reviews dealing with law, public policy, and ethics. He is president of the Fellowship of Catholic Schol<1rs, editor of the American Journ<ll of ]urisprudence, vice president of the American Public Philosophy Institute, a member of the Ramsey Colloquium on Theological Ethics (chaired by Rev. Richard John Neuhaus), and a member of the Board of Advisors of the Center for Civil and Human Rights. Profesor Bradley is married and the father of seven children. 
l)rofessor Bradley will spe<1k on the Hawaii same-sex lllilrri<lge case and its effects on the legal 
ddinitinn t)f mMri,lgL'. 

Monday, April6 Law School, Roolll 120 • 4:00 p.m. 
bv I he Sirake 
I . > -· I I f ., • I o
. ' ' 
I I I I I
I ' I , , I ' I I o 
Monday, April 6, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 11, 
• TRACK 
Irish runners take third in quadrangular meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Western Michigan in a track a quadrangular and as concur­Sports Writer and field meet Saturday, plac­rent dual meets. In quadran­ing third in quadrangular scor­gular scoring on the men's The Fighting Irish hosted ing. side, Miami placed first with Miami of Ohio, Butler, and The meet was scored both as 214 points, Western 
PPE: THE CONCENTRATION IN PHILOSOPHY, POLITICS, AND ECONOMICS 
invites applications from undergraduates with special interests in the intersecting areas of political philosophy, political theory, and economic analysis. Every year about twenty highly motivated and talented students are admitted to PPE. Check it out to see if it is for you. Many of our students go on to careers in law, public policy, or the academy. 
If you are looking for: 
(1) 
an integrated approach to politics and justice, 

(2) 
without all the requirements of a second major, and 

(3) 
an intellectual community of faculty and students who share your interests, PPE wants you! 


FOR MORE INFORMATION, contact either Professor David O'Connor, Philosophy Department, O'Connor.2@nd.edu, or Professor John Roos, Government Department, Roos.l@nd.edu. 
FOR AN E-MAIL APPLICATION, sinlply send a request to Professor .David O'Connor, O'Connor.2@nd.edu~ You may also pick up a paper application from Coleen Hoover in the Philosophy Department, 336 O'Shaughnessy. The application deadline is Aprill3. Acceptances will be announced April14. 

It's ttine again to make baskets, for the people of South Bend who probably wouldn't get a really good meal for Easter otherwise, and the WHC needs your help. We'll be assembling the baskets and helping families carry them to their cars. Please come-even if only for a few minutes. Thanks! Questions? Call Karen at x2297. 
Wednesday, April 8th, 3:30pm to 6:00pm Stepan Center 
Michigan's 198 points edged out the Irish's 189 points for second, and Butler was fourth with 50. Miami also won in women's competition with 219 points, WMU was second with 170, Notre Dame took third with 146, and Butler placed fourth with 80 points. 
In dual scoring. the men fell to Miami 109-90, outraced WMU 100-98, and crushed Butler 130-39. The women lost to Miami 114-72 and Western Mich. 97-89, but solidly defeated Butler 108-64. 
"I think it was probably simi­lar to last week in that we had some people run very well," sprints and hurdles coach John Millar said. "Errol Williams almost equaled his lifetime record in the 110-meter hur­dles with 13.81 [seconds], Kevin Reher improved his time slightly, and Marshaun West ran a personal best in the 200 meters." 
Top performances among the hurdlers included a one-two finish by seniors Williams and Reher in the 110-meter hur­dles, and junior Nadia Schmiedt's runner-up finish in the 400-meter hurdles. 
"I was really, really happy 
with the race," said Williams, 
an all-American. "My PR [per­
sonal record] is 13.78, so for 
this time of the season, I'm 
really happy." 
Among the best showings by 
the sprinters were a victory in 
il time of 41.5 seconds by the 
men's 4x100-meter relay 
squad of Reher, Williams, 
West, and Chris Cochran; first 
place by Terry Wray in the 
men's 400-meter run, second 
place by Carri Lenz in the women's 400 meters, Travis Davey's runner-up time of 10.2 in the 100-meter dash, and West's second-place time of 
21.36 in the 200-meter dash. 
"We ran a good time," said Reher, "But we've got some work to do." 
The distance crew recorded some strong showings. Alison Klemmer, Bridget O'Brien and Erin Luby put together a one­two-three sweep in the 3000­meter run; Sean McManus tri­umphed in the 5,000-meter run; Phil Mishka and Tim Kober finished first and sec­ond, respectively, in the 800­meter run; Cara Motter took second in the 800-meter run; Jason Hexing came out victori­ous in the 1,500-meter run; and Erin Luby was second in the women's 1,500-meter run. 
"I was really running just for points," said Klemmer. "The 3,000 as a whole, though, went really well. All the girls in the race did really well." 
In the field events, Jennifer Engelhardt tied Miami's Meghan Gilhooly for first place with a jump of five feet, eight inches, setting a Monogram Track record; Adrian Irby took second in the men's triple jump; Bethany Wilson woh the pole vault with a leap of nine feet, three inches; and Chris Smith took second in the men's javelin.. 
"It was a meet which gave us an opportunity to run some people in a lot of races and see where they're at in terms of fitness and performance level, and kind of plan for the rest of the season," said Millar. 

~®] Stanford 
~mm SUMMER SESSION June 23 -August 16, 1998 
Undergrads • Graduate Students 
+ 
Fulfill ageneral education requirement 

+ 
Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor 

+ 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 depanments 


'··J~'j~: ,Physics, Economics, Chemistry, Enginneering, Biology, Music, Com­
I . Science, History, Art, Classics, Athletics, Accounting, Psychology, Political 
Sciepce, Anthropology and Communication. Spend asummer in sunny CA. ::~'~tT!'iV .. :. ::::~&jf~:··· ,~~1?:1: 
For aFREE catalogue, send your:
Stanford Summer Session 
Name ________
Building 590, Room 103 
'"'"''Stanford, CA 94305·3005 Address -----'---'--­cji, (650) 723-3109 
Ciry,ST ____.;........,-­'i~~~::(650) 7254248 Fax . ,.
,•t,·, ::'i'i'• J ZIP 
NW~1,-----~--­
Email: summer.session@stanford.edu Circle: Undergrad Grad
Web: www:Stanford.edu/summer.session 
I j \I ' \ I 
I 1 I I I 
v -• • Round Results 
ATTENTION M AJ 0 
Now is the time to apply for a Fall __ _ Government Internship Interviews will be held April Sign up now in 217 O'ShauFtJ.•,u••"~"" For more information call 631-8248 


,·. 
~~-----­
The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 6, 1998 

show tomorrow on Stepan 6 at. high at Bookstore and this one way to find out. So, let the 4:45p.m. · year's tournament looks to be games begin. 
EASTER WEEJ(END HOURS 
(llf/lf~uddle Mart 
Thursday, April 9 --7:30 am -8:00 pm Friday-Saturday, April10, 11 --The Huddle Mart will be open from 10:00 am-5:00pm Easter Sunday -Closed Monday, April13 --Open regular hours 
A~~\\)
Easter Sunday Bu-jfet 
will be served at North Dining Hall from 1:00 -4:00 pm
~­
Hors d'oeurves 
Seafood Bisque with Sherry~ ' Honey Glazed Ham with Pineapple Sauce ~ Sauteed Breast ofChicken Tchouptoulas 
Herb Roasted Leg ofSpring Lamb Vegetable Rice Pilaf---Delmonico Potatoes 
v~~ 
Asparagus Spears Hollandaise 
/'/~1 
Sauteed Julienne Vegetables Salads and Breads Desserts and Fresh Fruits 
"-:::3 
Adults-$10·75 Children-$5.40 Children under 5 eat free Students on a Notre Dame meal plan need their ID page 12 
f!i
? x 
Dr. Teeth and the Electric Mayhem del. The Defunct West Bar Review Lost Riders of the Apocalypse del. Scorpion: 'The Team w/ the Poisonous Tails' Sprewell: Carlesimo:: Us: Chickens del. We're Not Jenny Heft, But We've Got the Finn Squash It del. 1st Year MBAs Mike Tyson. Marv Albert, & 3 other guys who bite del. Bosco Fatbox del. Oedipus and the Mama's Boys Team 213 del. FACTORS ABridget's Convict and Four Other Lucky Friends del. Team Wookie The Grisled Five del. Malibu Barbie and the Sunset Girls Calypsodic Wagamama del. Vad's BFRP Rico and the Gang del. Team 444 Absolut Irish del. Shaft and 4other Priv;.te Die's BYE del. Be the Ball Presidential Kneepads del. Fronters Chihuahua Who Shot the Couch? del. Kwispy Kwackers Cherry Poppin' Daddies(161) del. Dip it in Cheese Sauce 2 Hard to Handle del. Hand Dukies, Fist Rockets, Steamdogs... We Can't Even Beat Ourselves del. Grantham Little Squirts Coming with Their Big Budde del. Team 99 Vatos Locos del. Cherry Poppin' Daddies(525) Mendelssohn's Many Mumbling Mice del. Common's Glory Wayne Lesage and 4 other guys... del. J­Dog and 4 Slow white guys Hoosier Daddy del. Reckless Drivers Tim's Pee-Ons del. All Heart Team Ill: The Cardiac Arrest The Fabulous Dillon Boys del. Salads and Marsupials Free Leroy and This Time We Mean It del. Get That Out The Jim Balden All Stars del. Team 548 The Condiments del. You Win· Team 212 del. Slackluster Vanilla Ice and the VIP Posse del. ABra and Four Boobs II Icky Oat Bits del. Alumni-Senior Club Hoosier Daddy Spickelmeir? del. Rambis Ticketmasters: The Return del. We Prefer Syrup Fast Breaking High Men del. Team 273 4 Big Bufords &ADonkey Punch del. G./. Plan 4 A&L Majors and One Guy Who Can Get aJob del. Chicas Del Fuego Voltron Crew del. Spanking Burros WP03: Patsy Poohwater, Snake Snarl... del. 2 Down Low, 2 Ball Handlers... Beer: It's Not Just for Breakfast anymore del. BUYA Team 465 del. Don't fool yourself The Motley Fools del. The Annexation of Puerto Rico Saturated Phat!!! del. Fat, Drunk, and Stupid The Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse del. Hickory Latrine II del. Rosemary Sage and the Spice Girls Team 380 del. MBA 99 Team 220 del. Zeke Four Sshm-ies and a Rat def. Yo' Mama Cleveland Steamers del. Cobra Kai The First Five def. Bismark Choanser def. Team John Black Returns 
... 
-----~---­
----------. 
Monday, April 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13: 
the sixth after the Friars rallied poll. to within a run, but was able to In the first game, the Irish
Softball 
preserve the 3-2 victory and tool a 2-1 lead in the second record her third save of the with a two-run double by
continued from page 16 
season. Nichols which scored Sarah earn her fourth win of the sea­After sweeping Providence, Mathison and Kris McCleary. son and give the Irish a win­the team took a short detour The visitors held their lead ning record for the first time for a doubleheader against until the seventh, when BC's 
since the final week of Boston College, who was picked Jennifer Perrotta led off the February. Senior Kelly Nichols to win the North Division in this inning with a solo homer to tie relieved her with two outs in year's conference preseason the game at two runs apiece. 
James Joyce spoke Italian. 


Register now for fall 
For more information on course offerings call 631-4705. 
2398 ROIT 101 01 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 09:35-10:25 T 09:30-10:20 2399 ROIT 101 02 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 10:40-11 :30 H 11:00-11:50 2400 ROIT 101 03 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 11:45-12:35 T 11:00-11:50 3349 ROIT 101 04 Beginning Italian I 3.0 MWF 12:50-01 :40 H 12:30-01 :20 2401 ROIT 103 01 Intermediate Italian 3.0 MWF 09:35-10:25 2402 ROIT 103 02 Intermediate Italian 3.0 MWF 10:40-11 :30 0200 ROIT 103 03 Intermediate Italian 3.0 MWF 11:45-12:35 2659 ROIT 111 F 01 Intensive Beginning 5.0 MWF 09:35-10:25 TH 09:30-10:45 0977 ROIT 111 F 02 Intensive Beginning 5.0 MWF 10:40-11 :30 TH 11:00-12:15 0201 ROIT 111 F 03 Intensive Beginning 5.0 MWF 12:50-01 :40 TH 12:30-01:45 
0971 ROIT 237 01 OK Computer Italian 3.0 TH 11:00-12:15 (Cachey) 3451 ROIT 345 01 Surv Med & Ren Lit 3.0 TH 09:30-10:45 (Moevs) 4779 ROIT 410 01 Italian Short Story -3.0 MW 11:45-01 :00 (Welle) 3592 ROIT 421 01 Dante I 3.0 TH 02:00-03:15 (Cachey) 
3009 ROIT 501 01 lt. Lang. Acquistion 1.5 F 02:00-03.15 (Fiosi) 4784 ROIT 502 01 ltal. Cultural Studies 3.0 MW 03:00-04: 15 (Welle) 4205 ROIT 546 01 Venetian & N. ltal. Art 3.0 TH 11:00-12:15 (Coleman, R.) 4216 ROIT 584 01 Rome in Age Bernini 3.0 H 02:00-04:30 (Coleman, R.) 

Anyone interested in helping plan our last year at Notre Dame, please stop by the class office, 213 LaFortune for an informational sheet, or come to an informational meeting Monday, April 6 at 7:30 p.m. on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
• Pep Rally's Class Dinners .. BW 3's, Bruno's 
• Class Masses .. Ring Blessing 
•Fundraising .. T..Shirts 
• Sr. Scrapbook 
•Web Page 
The game was knotted until the ninth, when the Eagles used two singles and two sacrifice bunts to score the winning run. 
Unlike the matinee, the sec­ond game was a pitcher's duel, with the two teams unable to score for the first six innings. The Irish were finally able to take the lead in the top of the seventh, when sophomore Tara King led off the inning with a double, went to third on a sac­rifice and scored on an RBI sin­gle by McCleary. 
Alkire had another outstand­ing performance, this time in a pitching role. With the win, she improved to 3-1 on the season and earned her first Big East win of the year, while Nichols recorded her fourth save of the season. 
With the weekend, the Irish improve to 18-17 on the season and 4-3 in Big East play. The team will now travel back to the friendly grounds of Ivy Field for a five-game homes­tand that will last through Saturday. On Wednesday, intra-state rival Purdue travels into town for a doubleheader, followed by a three-game series with conference opponent Seton Hall on Thursday and Saturday. The first game between the Irish and the Boilermakers is set to begin at 4 p.m. 


Come, join us for the opening of the conference "Talking Across Boundaries: Cultures ofPeace, Cultures of I io!ence." 
Journey around the \\orld and in South Bend with the help of music, poetry. 'JJI<!l!11/l FILM. personal StOrieS as t'()nference pm·ticipants and :\otrc Oame students present an euning of mutt icultuntl dialogue. 

*The Most Affordable Student Housing * 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 6, 1998 
• MEN's lACROSSE 
Tournament hopes dwindle for Irish after loss 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Sports Writer 
For an Irish squad that had not lost to a Great Western Lacrosse League opponent since they came up on the short end of a l4-I3 match against Michigan State in 1992, yester­day's contest against GWLL rival Butler should have had the Bulldogs rolling over and playing dead. 
Instead the 15th-ranked Bulldogs came out on top, fetching a 6-5 win over No. 19 Notre Dame. This is the Irish's first loss this season in the GWLL, giving them a 2-1 con­ference record. The defeat also returns the Irish to a .500 record over.all, this time at 4-4. The Irish have lost four of their last five and continue to fight for a spot in the NCAA tourna­ment, which they have qualified for in each of the last six years. 

"It was a pretty big hit," said sophomore attackman Stedman Oakey. "Basically, we just got beat." 
The offense fell short in the contest, the five goals scored is the team's lowest output all season, and well short of the 11 goals per game the Irish had netted in their first seven games. 
The Irish began the game with a bang, as attackman Ben Savage scored first at 10:41 of the first quarter off a Jimmy Keenan feed, his first of three in the game. 
But that was Notre Dame's only lead of the contest, as Butler began its barrage in the second quarter. 
"Basically, we just didn't cap­italize on offense and they did," said O_akey. 
The Bulldogs were thrown a bone early in the second, as Michael Nicolosi and Butler captain D' Arcy Sweet scored two man-up goals to take the lead. 
Goalie Alex Cade played all 60 minutes in net for the Irish, stopping 14 of the 20 shots he faced. 
"Despite the loss, defensively we played our best game," said captain Todd Rassas. "We just kept letting in cheap goals." 
In addition to the two man-up Each of the Irish's goals in goals, the Irish let up three the second half were answered goals while the defense was by Butler, preserving the 3-1 caught in transimm. lead they had established. 
"They were just in the right The loss will most likely drop spot at the right times," com­the Irish in the polls, but they mented Rassas. are not out of the race. 
The Bulldogs finished up the "We're walking on thin icc," half with Nicolosi's second on a said Rassas, "but there's still a feed by Sweet at 1:31. chance." 
r"T;;,J~)..-d-.--11-l_O_rc--,-----------·----·--. ·. 
CarlsonWagonlit 

\II!,IIL'lllH'Il'f .Jll'-lllll\\.t,!2•11\]JI.If<I\1..'[\\L IJ,I\l ht'L'II'-tlldttl~ ·,,1!11 ]l;HI\t'.\lt•l ·1 \l.11~ \\llhll'll(\;!lldliiLIIIl\ltlillltljX.I••I•l\L'i2'~Lil-.. ltl•tHit'\jll.lltllll•l I lll•'IX';trt ,,,~,.·~ t;l]l.._,l..., l'l;trl \11ttt tlt'\1\ttj'l•, I rtt•']X' r 'ttt .t.~l.. tit\ ''lit. r~. 
Student & Fatuity Rates··low airfare to Europe • 
• 
Rail Passes issued in our offite with NO SERVICE FEE • 
• 
Distounted European tar rentals. · 

THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS DIVERSITY PROGRAM Invitee ntation by Vice-of Hot and d Hors MBA Lou ,ge, First Fl  

• • • ! I • > t I i, I I 1 
Monday, April 6, 1998 
~--­
The Observer • TODAY page 15 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 


CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 36 Standard 68 Title for 39-Across next 
1 "-your 38 "The Tell-Tale name" (Mamas Heart" writer year 
71 Exclusion from
and Papas lyric) 
39 & 43 Recent 
social events 
6 Fell behind newspaper 
72 Fab Four name
headline
slightly 
73 They may get 
15 Euripides 45 Gold: Prefix 
tied up in knots
tragedy 
46-Lee cakes 74 Begin, as a
16 Free 
maze
48 Bobble the ball
17 Forecast 19 Be bedridden 49 Spanish aunts 20 Journalist 51 Obi DOWN Stewart 
53 Bravery 1 Disable 
21 Rosetta -­
2 Cherry-colored 
57 Small island 
22 1960's 
3 Newspaperman 
esp1onage 59 Daddies 
Ochs
series 
61 Theda of 1917's 4 Easel part 
24 --Perignon 
"Cleopatra" 5 Actress Turner 
25 Quilting party 
6 Ropes, as
62 Employee
26 "Drying out" 
dogies
motivator
program 
7 Place to put 
65 Otherworldly
28 Umpire's call 
your feet up30 Tease 67 Treasure a Underskirt 34 Tease hunter's aid 9 First of 
three-in-a-row -------------10 Lower in public ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE estimation 
--r-.-,.....-, 11 Onetime bowling alley employee .:,:.+~+-:'-! 12 Threesome 

~M~OOHBiii~~ffF~~ 13 English prince's 
school 1460's TV talk­show host Joe 18 Superannuated -=+:::-+:-+:--1 23 Sewing shop purchase 25 TV's Uncle 
~~~illllll•~m~l!~ Millie
1,:: 27 Short writings 
29 Opponent -=+=+::+:'-B 31 Likely -:=:+=+.:-:+:-:-+-:-1 32 Actress 
Caldwell 
The Observer 
AND 
A. 
! 
~ 
~ 
! 

33 End of the 
English alphabet 
35 Trumpet 
37 Ex-host Griffin 
39 Black Halloween animal 
40 French 101 word 
41 Provider of support, for short 
42 Much-debated 
political inits. 44 Sourpuss 47 Malign 50 "La Nausee" 
novelist 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
ARIES 
If things seem too much, take a little time out for yourself. Once centered, you'll realize how much good there really is in your life and you'll feel a lot bet­ter. 
TAURUS 
It's full speed-ahead con­cerning a work or financial matter. You're extra effi­cient now. Partners are in happy agreement about mutual concerns. 
MIKE PETERS GEMINI 
Not the best day for reaching agreements with others, especially in busi­ness. Cooperation is a two­way street. 
CANCER 
While the day is not without its problems, the successful way you handle them gives your confidence a boost. Tonight will bring you social success as well. 
LEO • Your own desires may have to wait, since others demand your time. SCOTT ADAMS 
However, focus on enjoy­ing a pleasant social affair. 
"USE. DIFFERENT PA.S:,­
VIRGO WOROS fOR EACH S'<5TEM. 
You may be busy with CHA.NGE ONCE A 1'\0NTH. 
work left over from the office or a self-appointed
DO NOT 
task. Talks with a boss are
SQUE./>.L 
WRITE P>.NY­
encouraged. PIG!!! 
LIKE p., 
THINC, DOWN." 
LIBRA 
There may be changes in business plans today. Some will make a major pur­chase for the home. Easy come, too easy go. Don't spend too much money. 
SCORPIO 
Extra expenses may arrive. However, in busi­ness, you meet with oppor­tunity. Late night lights a candle for romance. 
SAGITTARIUS 
Your plans may include home improvements and you'll come up with a dynamite idea very soon, but try to get yourself out­doors. The sun will do you good. 
CAPRICORN 
Travel and cultural interests are on your mind. Your imaginative powers are keen so listen to your intuition. Career concerns 
AQUARIUS 
Reach financial agree­ments with others. You'll find something to your lik­ing if you go shopping. 
PISCES 
A friend can't join you for fun, but you will still have a good time. You may have some difficulties with friends. Partners will be pleased with your accom­plishments. 
52 Sheiks' cliques 63 Something to 54 Bemoan make on one's 
55 Popsicle color birthday 56 Bird of prey 64 Regarding 58 10 on a scale of 65 Quite a story 
1 to 10  66 Dublin's land  
60 Family girl  69 --Victor  
62 Famous­ 70 Hullabaloo  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Wanted: Reporters and editors. Join The Observer. 
-
Center for Social Con ··· · booklet, "Social r:ris Cours€lswith Exp tal.and. Service OpporttinJ .. for .F ~1999" is now to all in . ·. d stu .. ·facUlty at the 
Social Concerns a e tbrary office and ~~fh Office of Campus Min.isto/i ~top by and pick one P~.: . .~.: 
Holy Cross Associates is curre:ntly accepting appli­~ations for the '98-'99 program year. HCA is a year­long post-graduate opportunity-promoting growth through service, simple lifestyle, spirituality, and com­munity living. For information or an application please call Holy Cross Associatefat l-5521. · alloway's Poetry Night: Students and professors 
ather at 9 p.m, to rea<i oetry at Dalloway's 
house ~ located in th ·· ouse at Saint ollege. :wn• : 6 recital will b~ p this evening ·by 
. ate StudentSheree W at 7:30 p.m. in 
.t:J :l'Iesbu,rgh Library Audi .tn• The program .i11cludes works by Alexande ..... edicke, Wolfgang All;ladeus Mozart, Franz Liszt, A.r~old Schomberg and Claude Debussy. Graduate students Stephanie Mann, sqprano, and Jeffrey Au, trump~;t, will assist. The ;recital is free and open to the public. Please call 1­
6.201 for more information. 
th ... ·. •··•·· ..

picyGrilled Chicke11 d Ham &. Cheese r:lll~;id Ham & Cheese o!lm Quiche oiled Cheese·omelets en Patty 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name Address ________________________________________ City-------------State ____Zip________ 
.. 
-
SPORTS 
page 16 Monday, April 6, 1998 
• BASEBALL 
Irish sluggers sweep Eagles in conferenc~ series 
.. 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
A'sociare Sporrs Ediror 
Notre Dame baseball coach Paul Mainieri Rxpressed some concerns about the strength of the Boston College offense before the weekend serios with 
tht> l~agles. 
But the Irish were the ones causing concern. as tlwv finished a tlirt>e-gimw SWPOp of tlwir Big East conference 

foes with S-2. 6-4 and 16-6 victories in Chestnut llill. Mass. In the final 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL· 
game, the Irish pounded out team-leading ninth, lOth and seven home runs -the most by 11th home runs, while fresh­a Notre Dame team this decade. man hurler Aaron Ileilman "These are conference games earned two saves on Saturday. and we know how important ''I'm seeing the ball well, and they are," said third baseman I've had a little luck lately ­Brant Ust. "BC has a good the wind's been blowing out at team; it was good to get out a few of the parks," said Ust. early on them, and take the "The ball's really been jumping pressure off our pitchers." off the bat. I feel the most com­
Notre Dame (20-9, 5-0) fortable [at the plate I that I pushed its win stroak to 10 have all year." games, the most since a I 0-Highty Alex Shilliday (5-2) game stint midway through the started the opening game on 1996 season. The team's unde­Saturday and earned the win fmtted conference mark is its with a five-strikeout, two-run, first since joining the Big East. 1 0-hit effort. The Eagles outhit and increases its record to 25-6 the Irish in the opener, but in the last 31 regular-season stranded eight runners in the conference games. process. 
Ust paced the Irish with his Shilliday worked himself into 
Let the games begin 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assisranr Sporrs Ediror 
Spring is in the air. Easter break is just around the eorner. and the StPpan baskPtball courts are jarnnwd with Notre DamP students doing tlwir best Michael .Jordan impressions. or in some cases, their Kurt Hambis imprPssions. This can only nwan onP thing. Bookstore bas­kPtball is undPrway. 
l·irst round action of Bookstore XXVII took plac!l at Stepan with a total of I00 teams seeing action over tlw wenk!'nd. 
"So far I think the tournament is going vnry well," said Bookstore commissimwr Dan Delaney. "We've had great weather and a good turnout." 
The first two days of action saw many lop-sided games. Teams such as Ttw .Jim Belden All Stars blew out tlwir less taiPnted opponent. Team S4H. 21-2, whilo We Can't Even Beat Ourselves overwholmed Grantham. 2 I -I. 
So far the best game of the tourna­ment featured a matchup between Factors and Team 213. After trailing 1H-14. Factors scored five unan­sw11red points to take a 19-18 lead. Tlwn. with the teams deadlocked at 
20. Kevin Murphy found .Jon Bevilacqua inside and htctors found tlw mselves ahead. 2 1-20. Pat Malobloeki scornd the game winner with layup ofT a Tim O'Brien pass. 
After the first weekend of' play, the 625-team fiold has be1m narrowed by SO. Seeded teams don't begin aetion until Tuesday, whp,n the round ol'512 gets started. 
"It's always interesting to follow tlw seeded teams and see how they progrnss." said Delarwy. "Ilowever wn'nl always looking !'or that unsneded team that WI~ missed to make a run." 
So far most of the teams have just gone out and played baskPtball, but a fpw teams hingP morn on their. entertainmont value than their tal­
see BOOKSTORE I page 12 
a jam in the bottom of the sev­knotted the sconl at 1-1 in the enth, loading the bases with a third. hit batter, a double and a walk. Sunday's contest was domi­Heilman then came on with two nated by the hard-hitting Irish, outs to face clean-up hitter who received homers from Ryan McGowan, who struck out GroAne, Broek, .Jeff Wagnor, to end the game. Ust, AlAe Porzol and two from 
In the third inning, the Irish Dan Leatherman. Wagner's took a two-run lead as Allen shot pulls him within cmP of tlw Greene belted an HBI single Notre Damn career mark. and J.J. Broek laced an HBI This season. tho Irish are a double down the left field line. perfect 17-0 when scoring five Notre Dame increased the lead or more runs, and have floxed to 4-0 with a Todd Frye double their museles cwen morP with and Jeff Felker single. 36 home runs in 2H games. 
After BC cut the lead with two "It's always fun when you'rp, runs in the bottom of the fifth. winning," said Ust. "Wlwn we Ust lifted a solo shot to center hit the ball and our pitching to leadoff the sixth. kAeps us in the ganw, wn're 
Ust's second clinger of the day seeing the results." came in the second game, and 
• SOFTBAll 
Notre Dame wins 3 to move past .500 mark 
By BILL HART Assisranr Sporrs Ediror 
In rnnmt years. Big East opporwnts have 
been kind to Notre Dame's softball lPam. For 
the past two seasons, the Irish all but owned 
the North Division title. After an unewn split ,....-------, with Hutgers to start tlw conferPnee sPason, though, it looked as if a third title was out of reach. A confer­ence roadtrip proved t-:> bP just tho answer for thP Irish. as they went 3-1 to bring their average above the .500 mark. 
Notre Dame began their 
weekend by traveling !\ast­ward to faeo division rival l'rovidnnee. Although the Friars are known for late rallies and strong comebacks, the Irish had no trou­ble in nxtending their winning streak to five games with their first confPrence sweep. 
In the first game, both teams wnrn unable to press the advantag11 until the second inning, when freshman Lizzy Lernin1 hit a double to and scored on a suieide squPeze by senior Kelly Nichols. Nichols then stoln sr.e­ond and third beforr. teammate Jnnn Giampaolo singled her home. Melanie Alkire lnd off the third with a solo homllr. tlw first by an Irish player this season, to extend the team's load to its final score of 3-0. 
The Friars were never able to reeovPr. as pitcher Jennifer Sharron, eoming ofT a two-hit shutout against Valparaiso on Thursday, earnod her seventh win of the season with a complete-game, one-hit performanc:P that indudcd seven strikeouts. Alkire went three­for-four in the matinee, while Lemire had went one-for-three with onn run seornd. 
Lemire once again sparked the Irish in the nightcap, taking part in all runs scored. In tho second inning, she took a walk, stole se1:ond. and scored on two passed balls for thr. first run of the game. Lemire tlwn doubled with two outs in the third to scorn Alkire and /\my Laboe and give the team a 3-0 lead. 
Junior Angela Bessolo pitdwd live and two­
The Observer/John Daily thirds innings and struck out six battPrs to While no ranked teams competed, this weekend's Bookstore Basketball preliminary games still provided plenty of action. 
see SOFTBALL I page 13 

vs. Ball State, at Georgetown,~: Tomorrow, 5:05p.m. 
~ Saturday, 2:30 p.m. a) 
• Men's lacrosse falters 
vs. Purdue, vs. Syracuse,
'flw 
wjJ --=
Wednesday, 4 p.m. 
Saturday, 12 p.m. see page 14
...... 
at Wake Forest, Tennis vs. Olivet, 
•Bookstore Basketball results 
,,! 
St"' ~ 
Wednesday. 2 p.m. 
'~ Tuesday, 3 p.m. 
see page 12
! 
Softball vs. Oliver,at Ball State, 
Friday, 8:30p.m. Wednesday, 3 p.m. 
Stt ~ 
I' ' 
