• Thousands of New Yorkers camp out for 
• Going on a road trip this weekend? Scene gives 
Friday

tickets to this weekend's World Series games. 
you a list ofsome of the essentials. 
Unlike at Notre Dame, there was no rush. 
OCTOBER 

Sports • 15 
Scene ·10-11 
16, 1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 40 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
ND alum pushes for Wyoming hate-crime bill 

Junior Alyssa Hellrung, co-president of OUTreach NO, calls for the addition of sexual orientation to the University's legal non-discrimi­nation clause at a rally last Wednesday. Dr. Joseph Murphy tied 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
News Editor 

this issue to efforts to enact hate-crime legislation. 
NO facility in Dublin to open tomorrow 
Special w The Observer 
Tlw Univnrsity will oflkially lapnch its new acadnmic center in Dublin, Ireland, tomorrow with a day-long snries of events featuring a lee­turn by S!\an ()'hUigfnn, Ireland's ambassador to tho U.S., and, later, a dedication address by lkrtin A.lwrn. tho Irish Taoisnaeh (prime minis­
tt'r). 
Tlw dndieation of tho Keough-Notre Dame Study Cnntrn is loeatml at No. 86 St. Stophen's Croon in a portion of historic Newman llouse. It will honor Donald and Marilyn Keough, the lwnnl'ar.tors l'or whom both the center and the Keough lnstitutn for Irish Studies at Notre Dame aro nanwd. 
Donald Keough is chairman of the board of the New York investment banking firm, Allen & Company Incorporated and a Life Trustee of Notrn Damn. Marilyn Keough will bn awarded an honorary degrno by tho University in a ceremony at Trinity College, Dublin, during the dedication. 
The Taoiseach and two additional benefactors of tho Dublin program -prominent Irish busi­ness leaders Martin Naughton, executive chair­man of Glen Dimplex, and Michael Smurfit, chairman of .Jefl"erson Smurfit Group -also will receive honorary degrees. 
The opnning of the Keough Centre gives Notre Damn a unique academic presence in the coun­try with which it so long has been identified. Newman House, where in 1854 Cardinal John llenry Nnwman founded the original Catholic 
see DUBLIN I page 6 
In a plea for the passage of' hate-crime legislation in Wyoming, Dr. Joseph Murphy will appear on a local CHS affili­ate today before the funeral of Matthew Shepard, the gay University of Wyoming student who died earlier this week after a brutal beating -an alleged hate-crime. 
Murphy, a 1945 Notre Dame graduate and member of the Alumni Association's national board from 1987 to 1990, is the dose friend of the Shepard fami­ly. He advocates the addition of hate-crime legislation to Wyoming's state constitution and the addition of sexual orientation to the University's nondiscrimi­nation elaus!l. 
Murphy made a connection between the University issue and the possibility of hate crimes in Shepard's death. 
"All of a sudden, when hate crimes arise, you think about these kinds of things," Murphy said. ''I'm not at all accusing Notre Dame of hate crimes, but where do hate crimes come from? They come from the lack of sympathy from people who are dill'crcnt than we are." 

Mourners remember gay victim 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
A makeshift memorial on the city's North Side carries photos of Matthew Shepard, the gay college student who was fatally beaten in Wyoming, and a letter scrawled in red ink. 
Murphy said that accepting hate-crime legislation in state constitutions and accepting sexu­al orientation in the clause both deal with intolerance. 
''I'm going on TV to persuade people that I know, the legisla­tors that I know, the governor that I know, that hate is present· everywhere, but one thing Wyoming has to do is go on record and say that it's not going to put up with it," he explained. 
By including such a statement at the state or university level, no tolerance of discrimination would be permitted, explained Barbara Fick, associate profes­sor of law at Notre Dame. 

"Dear Lord, take care of our Matt, our dt~ar one who has passed," it reads. "And please take care of us. Thank you very much. Amen." 
More than 500 people gath­ered at the memorial Wednesday night during a 
see VIGILS I page 4 

"Putting nondiscrimination leg­islation on the books would be saying, 'We don't tolerate that kind of conduct here,"' she said. 
Shn further notml that in situa­tions where a crimn is commit­ted, punishable and ean be traced to intolerancn or hatred, hatn-erirne legislation can influ­ence the amount of punishment afforded by the organization's judicial body. 
"It's against the law to rob someone, it's against the law to kill someone, so hate-crime leg­islation aggravatns thn punish­ment bncause we as a society 
see CRIMES I page 4 

FRIDAY FEATURE 
Living in the other bubble 

New Earth Semester held in Biosphere 
By CHRIS LAWLER 
News Writer 
This semester, two Notre Dame juniors are discovering that col­lege courses have much more to offer than just cracking books and sitting in classrooms. 
Troy Leo and Raul Gutierrez 
are taking part in Notre Dame's newest study "abroad" program -spending a semester in Biosphere 2 in Oracle, Ariz. 
The course, known as the Earth Semester, consists of class lec­tures, field trips to the Sea of Cortez in Mexico and the Grand Canyon and a semester-long research project in the Biosphere or the surrounding areas. 
Originally established to research the possibility of human colonization on other planets, the Biosphere facility is now under the control of Columbia University in New York and used almost exclusively for undergrad­uate research. The centerpiece of the campus is "Biosphere 2," a 204,000 cubic meter enclosnd glass and space frame structure. It houses several of the world's ecosystems in miniature, induct­ing a savanna, a rainforest, a desert and a 900,000-gallon ocean. 
Notre Dame became involved in 
the  project  after  it  was  
approached  by  Columbia  
University.  

"They were looking for partner universities," said Charles Kulpa, the director of Notre Dame's Biosphere program. 
"We have been evaluating for 
see BUBBLE I page 4 


r 
~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 



TheND nasty-funk 
Ethanol never smelled so good. 
Before leaving for -------­October Break, take a good long look at the beauty around you. You're missing one pre­cious week of autumn, the most perfect season 
at Notre Dame. 
In fact, take a deep breath. fill your lungs to capacity with the scent of campus, and say to yourself: 
"Dear GOD. what IS that SMELL?" 
A stroll around the quads and sidewalks is more than a feast for the eyes-it's an olfac­tory catastrophe. an onslaught of foul odors. What's worse, they all arose at about the same time in several corners of campus. There are no neutral zones. 
If that ethanol smell left you queasy, take a walk to Flanner and Grace halls for a truly nauseating treat. Either the administration bred swine in Flanner Wednesday, or some sewage experiment went horribly wrong­ethanol is perfume by comparison. 
Of the allegations that The Stench emanates from North Dining Hall-well, perhaps that's a theory best left unexplored. Don't even go there. But last year's Unastencher can only wish that his parmesan-in-the-microwave cocktail had produced such a nasty-funk. 
But please, don't stop at Flanner; there are plenty more odors to go around. Case in point: The parking lots at Rolfs Aquatic Center and the tennis courts. Manure, anyone? Granted, no dung heaps are immediately visible, but something reeks of excrement over there. Perhaps no one tends to that area of campus on non-football weekends. We can only eager­ly imagine the rancid rancid excitement in store for that stench zone come next semester. 
Lucky West Quad residents get a special smell right in their front yards, coming soon from an O'Neill/McGlinn Hall sewer near you. Apparently, it's gone unattended all year, with a progressively worsening odor, enhanced by malodorous steam rising from the grate. Some suspect it's South Dining Hall waste water, which gets hosed down the drain from the loading dock area (that is, anything not unloaded onto The Observer's sports desk). 
Still, at least one of the powers-that-be must have caught a whiff, and it's about time the West Quad students got some maintenance help for that sewer. Put them out of their mis­ery! Or at least buy an industrial-strength cardboard air freshener to hang from the nearest building. 
As for those other odors-somebody, some­where, in some position of authority, must have an idea what's generating smells so potent that they put ethanol to shame ... unless the intrepid Unastencher returned and moved on to bigger and better putrid pranks. 
Before you leave campus, close all your win­dows and refill that Glade Plug-In Freshener. Make sure the newest smells of a Notre Dame autumn don't pervade your dorm room. 
And say a prayer at the Grotto for those West Quad students forced to live amid the stench. Light a candle or three. Better yet, replace those white candles with something more aromatic like lavender, maybe pine­even ethanol-scented candles would do. That and a miracle might neutralize Notre Dame's nasty-funk. 
Wherever the Unastencher is, he's probably laughing. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TODAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Sarah Dylag  
Tom Enright  Krisri Klirsch  
Brad Unriedr  Graphics  
Sports  Joe Mueller  
Mike Connolly  Production  
Viewpoint  Noah Amsradter  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Monica Garza  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excc:pl during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Friday, October 16, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Michigan State tells political candidate to change slogan 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
tions, use of any trademarked uni­
Almost two weeks after its appear­versity symbol or slogan without per­ance on a Lansing billboard, MSU mission is prohibited. The university decided that Republican House can­considers the "Go Green!" part of didate Virginia White's campaign White's saying, a variation of the slogan violates trademark laws. MSU "Go Green! Go White!" slogan. 
White, a former Meridian Waxman said he has no problem Township clerk, has been using the changing the slogan if it is a violation slogan "Go Green! Vote White!" on of trademark laws. He said the com­her campaign paraphernalia. A bill­courtesy to send us something in pany has agreed to change the sign board with the slogan has been post­writing," White said. "It would make for free, but estimates a cost of ed in Lansing on Saginaw Highway it easier to work with my committee about $600 to $800 to change the near Clippert Street since Oct. 1. on this." slogan on the rest of the campaign 
White said she plans to change the Terry Denbow, vice president for items. sign Thursday. Seth Waxman, university relations, said a written "This is money squandered over White's campaign manager, said the statement may be issu~d soon. minute issues with 2 1/2 weeks left candidate was notified informally by "We have no reason 'to believe that in the campaign," he said. "The slo­a friend in MSU's Office of University there won't be compliance," he said. gan has been around since our con­Licensing Programs, who said the "We've made them aware of the vention in August." slogan was a violation of trademark issues and believe that reasonable Rep. Laura Baird, D-Okemos. laws. White responded to an official people will make reasonable deci­who's running against White, said notice from the university Sunday, sions now that everyone is aware of she doesn't think the slogan is a vio­Waxman said. the issues." lation, and wonders why MSU didn't 
"I hope the university would have Under university licensing regula-take action sooner. 
• UNIVERSITY Of MINNESOTA • NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Profs sue university, claim bias Chemistry prof wins Nobel Prize 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. EVANSTON, Ill. 
Two university Chinese professors plan to file suit John Pople, Northwestern Board of Trustees Professor of against the university for alleged discrimination against Chemistry, was awarded the Nobel Prize Tuesday morning them and the Department of East Asian Languages, for his work in computational chemistry. The Nobel Literatures, & Linguistics. Professors Yu-Shih Chen and Foundation honored Pople for theoretical studies of molecu­Stephen Wang claim the university did not provide enough lar and atomic bonds. Pople will share the award with educators to support the students in the program and that Walter Kohn, a friend of who conducted chemistrv research Wang gets paid less than the most junior person in the in density-functional theory at the University of C~lifornia at program, said Judy Schermer, the professors' attorney.The Santa Barbara. The two scientists will share the approxi­program's problems came to a head last year when stu­mately $1 million prize. Pople said he plans to use part of dents staged a hunger strike outside of University the winnings for more research. Although Pople, 72, is the President Mark Yudofs office to voice their displeasure ninth person associated with NU to win a Nobel Prize, he is with how the university allegedly was neglecting the pro­the first full-time professor to be honored. Pople and gram. The suit, which was served to the University on Northwestern administrators said they were surprised by Friday, asks for monetary damages in excess of $100,000. the announcement Tuesday. ''I'm overwhelmed," said Pople, It also seeks an injunction to force the University to remedy who was in Texas visiting his son when he was notified. "It's the alleged discrimination. the biggest prize one can get." 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA "Coming out day" remembers Shepard Former student released from jail 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. BEHKELEY, Calif. 
Members of the Bisexual, Gay, Lesbian, Transgender A former UC Berkeley student, who was released from and Supporters Alliance (BGLTSA) celebrated National an Ohio prison Tuesday after posting bond, was initially Coming Out Day by tabling in front of Widener Library sentenced to jail in part so that she could not obtain an Wednesday. Volunteers handed out free stickers featur­abortion, according Ohio civil libertarians. Yuriko ing a sketch by artist Keith Haring to passers-by as other Kawaguchi, 21. who attended UC Berkeley during her participants drummed up support for the event by danc­1995-96 freshman year, was convicted of 27 counts of ing to the sounds of "It's Rainin' Men" and "I Will forgery in connection with a credit card scam. At the time Survive." A black donation box in the middle of the table of her arrest, the former UC Berkeley student was preg­set a somber note. Club members were soliciting contri­nant. Kawaguchi, who was jailed for four months prior to butions for the organization's "Shepard Memorial Fund." her trial in Cuyahoga County, Ohio, told a judge at her Matthew Shepard, a gay student at the University of Oct. 6 sentencing in a court of common pleas that she Wyoming, died Monday after an attack last week. BGLT­wished to be put on probation so that she could obtain an SA Co-Chair Adam A. Sofen '01, who is also a Crimson abortion. But Judge Patricia Cleary responded to editor, said this year's Coming Out Day is of particular Kawaguchi's request by saying that Kawaguchi c:ould not importance because it raises visibility for gays and les­have a second term abortion. according to court tran­bians both nationally as well as on campus. Other mem­scripts, and sentenced the woman to two additional 
bers of the group seemed to agree. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

AccuWeather 00 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
'·)···~---""'':.:...............  H  L  
I  
Friday  ~  74 63  

Saturday ~68 Sunda,y 
:;~.
Monday Tuesday ~ 63 39 

(...•>•"\f"' .. " ..._/ ' 

4,9,~96.}.8 ¢-~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNel 

months in prison. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Oct 16. 
FRONTS: 
............... ~ .............. 

f-C--;;:19=98::::A::ccc_u_:.We.:..:.ac:.lh.:_:er'-',tncc:c.:..:..__________C_OL::::_D_ ___.:..:."':_:_~R-'M-STATIONARY 
Pressure: 

®©DD~DCJD 0 Q;q4ih ~~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated PrBss 

Atlanta  78  56  Casper  49  33  Helena  44  31  
Anchorage 38  30  Chicago  76  60  Los Angeles 76  54  
Boise  52  30  Cleveland  70  53  Memphis  82  62  
Boulder  58  35  Fargo  60  46  New York  66  52  
Boston  64  46  Hartford  64  41  Topeka  76  63  

--------------~----------------------~
~ 

Friday, Ocrober 16, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Students travel to Chile for youth gathering 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Nt'WS Wrirer 
For 11) Notrt-\ Dame and Saint Mary's stu­dents, faith eomes in many languagos. 
These students added Spanish to that list, as they traveled to Santiago, Chile. for "l~neunnlro dn Joverws'' or the C:ontinent.al Youth Gathering. 
The wePk-long event summonsed stu­dents from North. South and Central Amnriea to partidpate in thoological discus­sions, community service and cultural ewmls. 
This yoar's topie roflected on the futuro of the Chureh as it approaches the year 2000. 
"Because of a 1:ommon interest in God and faith. the Church of the futur·e will be the youth coming together in the Kingdom of God." said Judy Fean. director of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary's, who accompani1-\d tho students on the trip with Father Pat Neary. director of campus ministry pro­grams at Notre Dame. -Activities for the week induded group dis­cussions. group liturgics and reflections on "Sons and Daughters of' the Light", "Open Wido tho Doors to Christ" and "Tn•·tio Millennia Adveniente"-three church doc­uments read by participants prior to the start of the week. 
One of the most impactful events of the week was the day of solidarity, according to many attendees. Partidpants traveled to an orphanage in Santiago to work, dine and talk with the children. 
Participants worked alongside the chil­dron to plant trees and dig the foundations for a much-needed irrigation system for the orphanage, which housed 88 children rang­ing in ago from two to 19. 
"The most amazing thing was that these children showed genuine. simple love," said Andnm Bueno, who attended the gathering. "Wo weren't working for them, but with them." · 
Said fellow participant Steve Gomez, "In every one of these children, there was a little Jesus. 
"When these children saw you, you were their best friend," he continued. "They didn't know your past, and they didn't care -you could go there, be loved. and be you." 
After the day's work, the children dined with their new friends -an experience that was powerful for both groups. 
"Their hospitality was amazing," Bueno said. "Thn children lived under such poor eonditions that they rationed soap and toi­let paper. When we went to the cabin to see where the lived, they were so exeited to share that soap with us. It was incredi­ble." 
Following the meal. the children pre­sontod a card with the children's picture to each participant and asked what they liked best about the orphanage. 
"They said, 'Now we are friends bncaus!l we have shared together,"' Fean said. 
Another key part of the experience were thn small g.roup discussions, whieh posHd a challenge for many participants who did not speak the native language. Although three different languages were spoken among participants at the gathering, the group discussions were held mainly in Spanish. 
Kit was difficult because I could not always enter into the dialogue," Fean said. "We realized that we meet God many dil:. ferent situations. We are a global, not North American, church. It was a chal­lenge to see the Church as global." 
The Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA Check Card 
A Smart way to keep your Christmas spending in Check this Holiday Season! 

FASTER 
No checkbook to carry. N,.o check to write. No waiting for check approval. 

EASIER 

Just present your card at the time of purchase, and sign your name. The amount will automatically be deducted from your checking account and you'll get a receipt. Then, on your monthly checking account statement, every purchase will be detailed-with the amount, merchant's name, and location. 

MORE CONVENIENT 
Your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA Check Card is accepted everywhere VISA is accepted. It's the smart way to keep your Christmas spending in Check this Holiday Season. 

Independent of the University 
page 3 

Web brings bookstore 
alternative 
By CHRIS KUSEK 
News Wrircr 
When stud1~nts arrive on 
campuses after Christmas 
break this year, they may not 
have to sp1md hours sfmrehing 
through crowded isles in 
search or textbooks. 
This is dtw to tlw l'act that 
the Internet is quickly heeom· 
ing a viable alternative to 
retail shopping. 
BIGWOHDS.com, a nnw online 
textbook source, is one ol' the 
leaders in this trend of lnt!\rnet 
shopping. 
BIGWOHDS.com. like other 
popular retail sights off1~rs the 
consumer quiek and easy 
shopping without the hassi!~ of 
long lines. 
Advertisnd as providing a 40 
percent discount on most 
items, BIGWOHDS sells both 
nnw and used tnxtbooks. 
While the time saved from 
standing in lines bmwlits stu­
dents greatly, the process is 
not without its negativos. 
"You get hurt on shipping and handling time," said Bob Battles, a store manager at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
While BIGWOHDS does advertise that deliveries usual­ly arrive within 24 hours, this is not guaranteed. Furthermore, the student must know the ISBN numbnr of the textbook he or she is ordering, or there is a good possibility of a mis-order. 
Whnn a e(Jmmon accounting textbook was looked up, over 37 variations of thn book wnrn found. Due to the different pagination of the nditions, a mistaknn wrong order could pose unnecessary hassles for the student. 
While BIGWOHDS.eom is one of the larger companins ofTnr­ing online textbooks to stu­dents nationally, even Notre Damn's own bookstore is gnt­ting on the web. The llammes bookstore will offer Notrn Dame students a web site option of their own n1~xt semnster. Students will be able to order books on-linn and pick them up after they are bundled. 
"Students ean order books and they will be hern waiting," Battles said. "The Notrn Dame bookstore provides shopping ease to students based on information provided by the faculty." 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 


page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 16, 1998 




Crimes 
continued from page 1 
say, 'We especially don't accept that as a reason for the crime,"' she said. 
"In [adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause]. Notre Dame would actually be stronger in this case because in the absence of any kind of statement, there would be no punishment at all for discrimi­nation and no way to aggravate pun­ishment if a crime did occur," Fick said. 
The University does protect indi­viduals against discriminatory harassment on the basis of sexual orientation in its du Lac policy: 
"Any physical conduct intentional­ly inflicting injury on the person or property of another, or any inten­tional threat of such conduct consti­tutes discriminatory harassment ... An alleged incident of discriminato­ry harassment by a student will be handled in accordance with the 'University Disciplinary proce­dures."' 
While the policy does protect against harassment based on an individual's sexual orientation. the protection of sexual orientation still does not appear in the legally-bind­ing, general non-discrimination clause that provides "standards ... binding on all Notre Dame students wherever they may be." 
Murphy admitted that additional legislation in Wyoming or at Notre Dame would not do away with the problem, but that any law prohibit­ing discrimination and hate will bring attention to the issue. 
"I don't think this ties in any direct way to Notre Dame. I'm not saying that anybody at Notre Dame would sanction what happened in Laramie, Wyo., but at every chance we have, we have to let people know -do anything that we can, even if it means you have anti-hate crime and non-discrimination legislation on the books," Murphy said. "We've got to be totally tolerant and loving. We have to say, 'We [won't stand for] hate here or the attitudes that lead to it."' 

OUTreach ND, the unrecognized gay, lesbian and bisexual campus group, also made the connection between hate-crime legislation and the inclusion of sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause. The organization issued an official state­ment on Shepard's death Monday. 
"Without this inclusion, we leave open the possibility for another inci­dent like the one in Laramie, Wyo., to happen here at Notre Dame. There is nothing more important for the University than our standing together against intolerance and prejudice," the statement read. 
Student Senate also considered the possibility that the death of Shepard could be a hate crime, and according to student body vice pres­ident Andrea Selak, hate crimes must be considered in the discus­sion of the non-discrimination clause. 
The senate has set up an ad hoc committee to research issues related to the addition of sexual orientation to the clause. 
"The goal of the committee is to investigate as specifically as possible the clause, and hate crimes are defi­nitely tied to the non-discrimination clause issue," Selak said. 
According to the University, the matter is presently being dealt with by a University organization. 
"The issue is currently pending before the Academic Council and will be taken up and discussed in detail among council members in the next month before the next meet­ing," said Dennis Brown, associate director of Public Relations. 

Vigils 
continued from page 1 
candlelight vigil for Shepard, who died Monday from injuries sustained in last week's assault. It was among a num­ber of gatherings across the nation to express outrage over the attack, which police say was partially fueled by Shepard's homosexuality. 
"I can't stop crying. I am so devastated by this," gay actress Ellen DeGeneres told a crowd of more than 1,000 peo­ple at a rally outside the U.S. Capitol on Wednesday night. ''I'm begging heterosexuals to see this as a wake-up call to please stem the hate. We shouldn't be asked to change who we are." 
Some gay organizations have received hate mail since Shepard's death on Monday. 
Disciplinary hearings are scheduled next week for 11 Colorado State University stu­dents in connection with a homecoming float that appeared to mock Shepard even as he was dying in a nearby hospital. 
Some religious leaders say they are particularly alarmed by a Kansas pastor's plan to picket Shepard's funeral Friday with signs reading, among other things, "No tears for queers." 
Two young men have been arrested in the death of the 21­year-old Shepard, who investi­gators say was pistol-whipped and lashed to a fence post out­side Laramie, Wyo., for 18 hours in near-freezing temper­atures. 

Bubble 
continued from page 1 
about a year if it would fit in as one of our abroad programs," he said. "It becomes a formal pro­gram in the fall of 1999." 
Gutierrez and Leo are on leave of absence from the University to participate in this unique program. 
"The classes here have given me practical field experience and the ability to understand the differ­ing opinions and respons­es to the research results," said Gutierrez, a biology and environmental science major. 
Courses are team-taught and cross-disciplinary, ranging in subject from biology to geology to socio-economics. However, the main com­ponent of the course is the research project, which is designed and carried out by each individual student or group. 
"Biosphere 2 is a unique experience for anyone interested in global man­agement and the environ­ment," said William Harris, executive director of the Biosphere 2 Center. "By simulating conditions that scientists expect to see on Earth within the next century, students get to be a part of ground­breaking research." 
Past projects have ranged from various experiments inside the Biosphere to cataloguing 
the marine biology in the Sea of Cortez. 
Students do not reside in the Biosphere 2 facility, but in furnished living quarters which were for­merly training sites for Motorola. Students also have the opportunity to participate in recreational activities including swim­ming, volleyball and hik­ing in the nearby Catalina Mountains. 
The program is open to all Notre Dame under­graduates, regardless of major. 
"I hope it provides an option for a truly unique learning experience for students interested in the environment and man's involvement in the envi­ronment," Kulpa said. 
lie noted that there are still opportunities for undergraduates to apply for upcoming semesters. 

•'CORRECTION 
In the Oct. 6 Scene sec­tion. graduate student Bridget Green was quot­ed as saying, ''I don't really do the B~r scene so much, l pretty'tnucl.) go to Borders or Barnes and Noble wherei tan sit and actually talk to some­
body.~ ffi><> 
Green did not make this statement and was mis­

Introducing ... 

• "Castle Point Select" 
•
• Designed for the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --Just Compare! • • Unfurnished or Furnished • • Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
• • •27" Stereo Television •Cherry Finished Furnishings •Microwave, Toaster, 
•• 

Coffee Maker •All Dishes, Cookware, Linenes & New Bedding • • •Plus Much More • 
• MiII ion Dol Ia r Renovation 
• • LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft), Starting at $457.00 • • LARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 sq ft), Starting at $559.00 • 
Included with rentals --Free foil privilege membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club • including: *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball ~Sauna & Whirlpool *3 • • Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor Basketball *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts • 
• Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Popular Apartments • • While They Last! •
•

• 
Cetst(e Point Apartments 

•• 
• 
•

• Cfevdetni' @ Jronwooi' R.oeti's • • 272-8110 •
• 

www.cetstf~-point.com Xon()et~ -Settur()et~ 8 etm -6pm Sun()et~ 12 pm-5 _em
•••••fl'••······· ............. ......
~



Friday, October 16, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• 
Parents leave daughter at gas station 
INDIANAPOLIS 

Parents drove morn than 200 miles Thursday bnfore rnalizing their 6-year-old daughter was lPI'l bnhind in a gas station bathroom. Tlw family was reunited half a day later at the Marion County Childn~n·s c;uardian's llomo. wlwrn !Ially Encn was I>Ping lwld until lwr parents. Michael and <;ina n~turrwd, said director Paul Browne. "This happens Pvery day at malls." Browne said. "It's not a rwglectful situation. She's just upsPl. Four hours can lw a long time in tlw lif1~ of a 6-year-old who's been separated from her parPnts." The Ence family of Fairview, Utah. stopp('(l at an Indianapolis gas station early in tlw morning on the way home from vacation in Massachusetts. 
Wildlife officials presume Mexican wolf dead 
PIIOENIX 

T!w first M1~xican gray wolf pup born in tlw wild in nearly SO years is missing and pres1mwd dead. wildlife ollieials say, and an adult female wolf' r·eleasml into Llw Arizona wilds is also missing. If both arn dead. that IPaVI'sjust fivn lhw-roaming wolves of the 11 r1•IPaS1Hl this year in the Apache National Forest. But U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service biologists arnn 'L giving up on plans to rein­lrodur.l• tlw wolv1~s. which were Bxterminal­Pd from the Southwest decades ago by huntl'l's and randwrs. Tlw service plans to rPIPaSP about a doz1m morn adult wolves this winter in t.lw rugged mountains near thP Nnw MPxiro slate lirw, Fish and Wildlife SPrvirP biologist Wnndy Brown said Thursday. "WP 1~xpnetnd this," Brown said. "Wolves are going to die. They're going to g1~t run ovnr by rars sometimes or killed by otlwr wildlife or occasionally killed by humans." 
Jury avyard~ damages to 
pnson mmate 
BOSTON 

A f1~dPral jury Thursday awarded $37,500 to an inmatP who said a man hn shot in the !wad in IIJI) I lweame a prison guard and tormPntl'd him b1~hind bars. Zrferino llPI'ina. 24. dainwd that prison officials did nothing whiln thn guard. Filipn Monteiro, harassPd and bnat him at the maximum­SI'Writy slaln prison at Walpole. The jmy ordnrnd prison Supnrintnndent Bonald Duval to pay Llw biggnst share. $25,000. The direc­tor of thn prison's disdplinary unit was 

• --At~CAN CiTY 


Pope releases encyclical on anniversary 
AssociATED PREss 

Sounding a battle cry for his 20th anniversary as pope, John Paul II rallied his church Thursday against assaults on its fundamental beliefs, saying such attacks have sowed con­fusion and even despair among Homan Catholics. 
lie spoke out in an encyclical, one of tlw most important documents a pope can issue, warning his bishops against Lh1~ temptations posed by some modern schools of philosophy and theology. It did not go into spncifics of church teaching forwhich John Paul has repeatBdly demanded fidelity. 
Some theologians, however. have questioned the power and infallibility of the pope. whether only priests can cnlebrate Mass and whether baptism, the sacramnnt that marks a Catholic's ortieial entry into the church, is nec­essary. 
The encyclical summed up one of tho central themes of John Paul's long papacy -that thorn are unshak­able truths and that positions that "question the cnrtitudes of faith" must b1~ rejectnd. 
The 154-page document, the 13th encyclical of his papacy, was Limed for the 20th anniversary of his elec­tion as pope. Thousands of pilgrims from Poland, his homnland, were converging on Home for celebrations Friday, when John Paul bncomns one of only a doznn popes to have served at least two decades. 
Tlw en1:ydical is titled "Fides et Hatio," Latin for "Faith and Heason," and grapples with the issue of reli­gion in the modnrn world, when expectations have been raised by sci­entific and technological progress. It stresses that faith and reason are not incompatible. 
lie said mankind has always asked questions such as "Who am I? Where have I come from and where am I going? Why is there evil? What is thern after this life?" 
But today some Catholics risk "los­ing their way in tlw shifting sands of widespread skepticism" while "many people sturnbln through life to the very edge of the abyss without know­ing where they are going," John Paul said. 
"At.times, this happens because 

those whose vocation is to give cultural expression to their thinking no longer look to the truth, preferring quick suc­cess to the toil of patient inquiry into what makes life worth living." 
The encyclical, addressed to the pope's bishops, was in el'!'ect a call to action for the proper education of Catholics. 
John Paul said he encouraged scien­tific progress but it "should be wedded to the philosophical and ethical values which are the distinctive and indelible mark of the human being." 
The Hev. Thomas ReesB, a Catholic scholar in New York and editor of the weekly magazine America. published by the .Jesuits, called the encyclical optimistic because it assumPs pPople can rBason their way to truth, and that by combining faith and reason, they will know how to live their lives. 

The encyclical, he said, takes aim at the philosophical 'isms' like relativism and deconstruetionism. or whatever is "the llavor of lhn month" being taught in universities. 
"Most secular philosophers would havn trouble with it, but they havn trouble with each other, too." 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 

The White House and congressional leaders struck an agreement Thursday on a $500 billion spend-i n g package shower-
i n g 
money 
o n school systems. --~....-'-"----' farmers and the Pentagon, ending a week of' election-season budget brinkmanship. 


The deal produced a bipartisan finale to a 105th Congress that in rec(lnt 
Clinton, Congress reach budget agreement 
Friday, freeing lawmakers to go home for the Nov. 3 congressional elections. 
Despite the cooperation it took over· a week of high-level bargaining to reach the pact, neither side pulled any punches in touting victory claims. 
Announcing the deal with Democratic leaders at the White House, Clinton cited extra spending for hiring teachers and other sehool programs, money to buttress the International Monetary Fund's efforts to 
months has been riven along party lines over the possible impeachment of President Clinton. The House and Senate are expected to approve it by comfortable margins 
stabilize the global econo· my and funds for environ­mental programs. In doing so, the president took yet another dig at a Republican -con trolled Congress he has repeated­ly derided for doing noth­ing. 
"When you compare where we were for eight months with when~ we are today and how good this is for America ... , these are huge victories for the American people," Clinton said. 
Republicans cited their own list of triumphs. These included giving local offi­cials broader choices in how they would use the $1.1 billion Clinton won to begin hiring 100,000 teachers; blocking Clinton's plans for volun­tary national testing of stu­dents and helping eommu­nities build new schools; winning close to $10 bil­lion more for military pro­grams; and blocking family planning aid to countries that coBrce abortion. 
All of these. they said. reflected GOP philoso­phies. 
"We wanted the govern­ment to be smaller," Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, H-Miss., said with other Hepuhliean leaders at the Capitol. "W(J wanted less decisions in Washington. We wanted more deeisions being made back home with the peo­ple." 

spokeswoman A n d r e a Wilson. 
A study was released recently by the College Board which reports the average tuition for the upcoming school year will undergo a four percent increase. 
The hook's author, Gail Schlachter. and Reference Service Press have special­ized in gathering informa­tion on scholarships since 

year of study, and that num­ber should rise to 100 by the year 2000. 
The students are housed with both UCD and Trinity stu­dents and are enrolled in courses at both institutions. In addition, Notre Dame courses in disciplines such as philoso­phy and theology are taught at the Keough Centre, and it is planned eventually to open these courses to UCD and Trinity students. 
The Keough Institute, which encompasses Notre Dame's entire Irish studies program, is under the direction of Seamus Deane, professor of English and Keough professor of Irish Studies. A foremost Irish intel­lectual and general editor of the landmark "Field Day Anthology of Irish Writing," Deane also is widely known as the author of the critically acclaimed novel, "Reading in the Dark." 
"Thank~ to the magnificent generosity of Don Keough, who gave it life as well as an identi-
Friday, October 16, 1998 
ty, and to the brilliant leader­ship of Seamus Deane, who, together with a team of excep­tional scholar-teachers, has given it distinction as well as substance, the Keough Institute in a very short time has created a truly extraordinary reputation in Irish studies," said University President Father Edward Malloy. 
"Now, with the additional sup­port of Michael Smurfit and Martin Naughton, and in part­nership with two great Irish uni­versities, we can legitimately aim to create a premiere international vehicle for Irish studies and to engender a gen­uine partnership in teaching and scholarship with Ireland," Malloy continued. 
"We see this as not only an important and worthwhile intel­lectual endeavor, but also as a vital and renewed link between the people of Ireland and the many more people of the international Irish diaspora," he said. 

gooa·· and the tnforma­tion is thataccurate/' Wilson 


Got News? Call us at 1-5323
said, "It cp.tl..also .serve as a guide fof:finding tidd.itiQnal, unlisted scholarships."•· .;, 
Private.. scholarshlps are a significant part offinancial aid at Notre Dame, and con~ stitute about one haltof the total financial aid re<;eived bystudents at the Jiniversity, according to data from the 1998 Fact Book. presented by Institutional Research. 
50827 Princess Way, Granger 
247-0000 

Formerly Princess Way across from Big C Lumber 

Lunch or Dinner 

Your Way Value Meal with crispy fries. 
II 
Sandwiches, Salads, Specials, Steak, Chicken, Seafood, & Pizza Friday Night All You Can Eat Fish Special Saturday Night All You Can Eat Crab Legs Live Weekend Entertainment 181V's for Football Monday Night Football Watch your favorite games including 
Notre Dame 
r---$1~oo-o£ri4-,,-~~--i-6;;-fii~~-~---l 
~=~~~==~~~===~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

Your Way Value Meal with tasty onion rings. 
It's a tough choice. But you can handle it. 
There's a tasty new way to "Have It Your Way<~>" at Burger King<~> But which to choose? Our hot, crispy fries with your Value Meal? Or our tasty onion rings with your Vhlue Meal? They both cost the same price and they're both unbelievably delicious. So maybe you should go for two Value Meals. Then you could get one ofeach. 
Tht' cold l~an't. ~tnk it~ ltf'th illt:Q thi~ h~ayyweight. Poloutt.-c:" t1c-ccC', The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center lf it g'-..h tno na~ty. thC" Dt~n.aJj J;L~kt"t :.r.ips inro >' $lu·ll. P't z.ip~ ,,nJ 
dro1li Hap.-;. kc-cp you wd.f v~ntibt:c-d. Ta$lan nv.-day~ ~')mplt~l't': t·hi~ 
ji\t'kt""t th;.lt·':-~ ~md1 t.•>~tv ;a.nd h>ugh.. 
~ 
R.,c,,ive -1·•thb ad. 
BURGER 
KING 
® 
NEVER STOP EXPLORING~ 

It just tastes better."' 
\01998 Burger King Corporafion. Burger King Corporafion is the exclusive licensee of the registered Burger King, Have It Your Way, II just tastes beller and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 

hiday, October 16, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
• WEST BANK 


<,North American
Israeli settlers defy promise 
Associa1ed Press 
ALEI ZAIIAV 

Thick dust from a construe­Lion site roven~d centuries-old olive tnH~s on a West Bank hill­lop. wlwrP workers ('lr~an~d land Thursday to make way for 
1.200 nnw honws for .J(1Wish SPtllPrS. 
Contractors said thn homns are part of a nnw rwigh horhood in an existing 
'THIS IS VERY DANGEROUS AND
.Jewish sPttlnm(~nt. The Palestinians in the neighbor­
portion of the excess carbon 
nPar·est comnHJJlity is rwarly THAT IS WHY THERE IS A hood. 
in the atmosphere -almost 2 
a mill' away, hownvnr. and Benny Elon, who advo­
billion tons annually.

pna<·n activists said thP sitP PEACE PROCESS, SO SUCH ISSUES 
cates settlement-building 
A team of government and 
was for a nnw .IPwish WOULD BE SETTLED.' and the transfer of Arabs 
university researchers specu­
PnclavP -despite lsr;wli promises to thP UnitPd StatPs that it would not build rww s!'ltlnnwnts. 
Thl' ronstrur.tion pror.nnd­Pd Thursday as Israeli Prinw MinistPr Benjamin Nl'tanyahu met in Washington with Palestinian lPadnr Yassnr Araf'at and l'rPsidnnt Clinton. The crucial talks arn aimed at ending months of' stalematn to (:om­plntP a dnal !'or an lsranli troop withdrawal from 13 perr:ent morP ol' thn Wnst Bank. 
SuccessivP U.S. administra­tions havP maintainnd that .Jnwish sPttlnm(mt construction on land lsraPl capturnd !'rom its Arab rwighbors in thn 19(,7 M idnast war is an obstacle to JWa(:n. 
Tlw l'alnstinians brokn of!' pnar:n talks in Marr~h 1997 ovnr snlllnnu•nt construction on land tlwy want !'or a futurn indnpendnnt statn. 
Thn Unitnd States, trying to rPstart lsranli-l'alnslinian pnarn talks. has asknd lsrcwl to halt sPttlnmPnt constru(:tion. 
no more than 700 million 
tons, rather than the 1.2 bil­lion to 2.2 billion tons esti­mated by the new report. 
Have something to say? Use Observer 
classifieds to speak your mind to campus. 
Pieter Tans, one of the sci­entists who worked on the paper, admitted the "uncer­tainties arc still large." 
"This is not ironclad. We say in the paper the evidenee is still somewhat tentativo," he said. 
But "we do think that we have used good models ... We think we've used data in a
The Diversity Program of the College of Business Administration 
proper way ... We've tried to
Presents a Panel Discussion 
look at all the uncertainties. 
and this is what we get," said 
Tans, an atmospheric chemist
Women in Law: 
at 'the National Oceanic and 
A Unique Perspective on the justice System 
Panelists 

Need Cash?? 
•Kathleen Brickley, Barnes & Thornburg 

$25.00 Today with this Ad 
•Aiadean 
Derose, Deputy City Attorney 

•
Patricia Hackett, Batnes & Thornburg 



and a student I.D. 
•Greta Roemer Lewis, Roemer & Mintz 
·-----------------------­
Facilitator: Margot O'Brien, Instructor ofBusiness Law 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per 
Specialty Areas 


1nonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of
•Family Law 
•Sexual/Unlawful Harassment 

your time. You choose your own 
•Employment Discrimination 

schedule.
•Healthcare Law 
•Medical 
Malpractice 

•Tax 
& Estate Planning 



Plasma Donations Save Lives 
• Product Liability 

Come Donate Today!! 
Date: Wednesday, October 28, 1998 Time: 4:00 to 5:30 p.m. Place: jordan Auditorium, COBA 

Call 234-60 I 0 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
But Nnlanyahu says existing S(~lllemnnls will b(~ allow(~d to (~xpand to accommodate natur­al growth. 
Mossi Haz. a leader of the lsnwli group Peace Now. insists Llw construction near Alni Zahav-Lnavns of Gold, 
lates that the earbon is being
out of the West Bank and 
soaked up, at least partly. by
Gaza Strip. said the syna­
FAISAI.Ifl!SSEINI goguc was being restored 
the regrowth of plants and 
PAIE\TINIAN GOVI:"IINMENT MINISTER for worship only and that 
vegetation on abandoned 
in llnbrow -constitutes a new s n ttl nnwnt. 
"We'rn talking about a very small community with 330 people, 90 familins in Alei Zahav at thn moment," Baz said. "If you start building homes for 1.000 families. that's not an expansion. that's a new settlement." 
On a hilltop about a mile from Alei Zahav. the sounds of jackhammers, bulldozers and rock blastnrs rnsounded throughout the rocky country­sidn as laborers added the fin­ishing toud1Cs to a row of newly complnted houses. 
Dospitr~ the large stretch of land bntween the settlement and the construction site, pro­jnct manager Arieh Ofri said tlw hilltop is within the Alei Zahav boundarins. 


plants absorbing
"The Defense Ministry approved the building of this nrdghborhood a year ago." Ofri said. "This is not a new settle­

greenhouse gases 
Atmospheric Administration's Climate Monitoring and Diagnostics Laboratory in Boulder. 
Carbon dioxide released by burning fossil fuels such as coal and oil has been increas­ing in the atmosphere. That has lnd to the connlusion by many scientists that it miglit cause excessive warming of the Earth by trapping heat from the sun, somewhat like the glass of a greenhouse. 
The measured incr·ease in carbon dioxide has been less than was expected, leading scientists to wonder where the excess was going. 
The Science paper mea­sures carbon dioxide levels around the world and eon­eludes that whatever is absorbing the gas is in the temperate region of the northern hemisphere, rough­ly between 25 degrees and 51 degrees north latitude. 
Comparing carbon dioxide levels in America, Europe and Asia led the scientists to believe that the major absorption is occurring in North America. 
Regrowth on farmland and previously cut forests is a strong possibility, since grow­ing plants absorb earbon dioxide, use the carbon for growth and release oxygen into the air. 
Tans also spcculatod that increases in carbon dioxide have spurred plant growth, which caused· them to grow faster and remove more of the gas from the air. Fertilization by inereused nitrogen in the air might have had the same effect. he said. 
The analysis lookf•d at rar­bon dioxidH lovels betwnen 1988 and 1992, measured at 63 atmospheric sampling sta­tions. 
"The current uptako of c.ar­bon by terrestrial ecosystoms is helping to slow down the rise of C02 in thtl atmos­phere. but we need to know why it is happening. Only thtm may we be able to pro­ject for how long into tho future this process may con­tinue," Tans said. 
ment." 

In east Jerusalem. an area Israel captured from Jordan in 1967 and later annexed. a leg­islator from the extreme right-wing Molodet party and his followers took over an abandoned synagogue. drawing angnr from 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
There may be a bit of good news on the global-warming front. North America sMms to bo removing a substantial 

Jews would not be allowed 
to live there. 

But Palestinian lawmaker 
Hanan Ashrawi said the group's presence in the Arab neighborhood was a "danger­ous provocation." 
"This is very dangerous and that is why there is a peace process, so such issues would be settled," said Faisal Husseini, the Palestinian min­ister of Jerusalem affairs. 
Elon and other leaders of the Jewish settlement movement oppose turning over land to the Palestinians and have stepped up their activities in an attempt to block chances for a troop withdrawal deal in Washington. 
At Alei Zahav, settlers said they would not stop building, no matter what the damage to the peace process. 
"I didn't come to live here to fight a war," said resident Orly Sabag. 
farmland and previously logged forests. 
But the report. in Friday's edition of the journal Science, could mean more controversy for the global-warming debate. 
In particular, eJWironmen­talists worry that groups opposed to the global climate treaty negotiated last year in Kyoto, Japan, will use the findings to argue that the United States doesn't need to reduce emissions of so-called greenhouse gases, as it agreed to do. 
"There is a huge concern that this result will be misin­terpreted," ecologist David Schimel of the National Center for Atmospheric Research in Boulder. Colo., saidin a telephone interview. 
l'I don't believe this result," said Schimel. commenting that other research indicates the amount of carbon taken up by North America can be 


VIEWPOINT 
----~-------------·~---_,.....---~---·~ -. 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearl1er MacKenzie 

NEWs EDITOR ...... ... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .. ...... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelar SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER.. .. ................. Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Ci!ella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students ofrhe Universiry ofNmre Dame duLac and 
Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either institution. The news is 
reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoricy of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and 
columns present rhe views of the aurhors, and not necessarily chose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all 
members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions 
rhrough letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Samt Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.\ @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 63 I -5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observ-er.obsnews.l @nd,edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Rise above the Clinton Era through Splendor of Truth 
"So many lawyers, so little truth." This heading of a column by Mark Levin, of Landmark Legal Foundation, sums up the "spinning" of truth by lawyers defending the certified liar in the White 

Charles Rice 
House. The first casualty of Monicagate is the very idea that truth and morality are objective. If the polls are right, the American people have bought the idea that a lie is not wrong if it is "only about sex," adultery is alright if the adulterer's spouse tolerates it and the character of a liar, even if he is President, does not 
matter as long as he is "doing his job," etc. 
In its final report, the Senate Watergate Committee said, "Hopefully, after the flood of Watergate revelations the country has witnessed, the public can now expect, at least for some years to come, a higher standard of conduct from its public officials and business and pro­fessional leaders." The public got that "higher standard," but only for a few years. If the standards of conduct within the Beltway are now lower than they were in Watergate, the reason may sim­ply be that those standards reflect our culture. The past two decades have brought the total cultural dominance of relativism. As Boobus Americanus tells the pollster, "1 don't think that conduct would be right for me, but who am I to say it's wrong for him? It's private. And all politicians are sleaze bags anyway." Charles Colson went to prison in Watergate because he misused one FBI file. The Clinton White House purloined 900 FBI tiles of its opponents and we do not care about it. 
We can expect a moral rebound from the Clinton scandals. But that recovery will last no longer than the one after Watergate unless it is based on sound principles. We can find those principles in Pope John Paul's 1993 encyclical, Veritatis Splendor, the Splendor of Truth. "That encyclical," said University of California Prof. James Q. Wilson, "is not a list of specific moral rules. It is about the universal law of nature that is discov­erable by human reason; it exists in all people regardless of culture, and leads us inevitably to judge actions as right or wrong-whatever their intentions and whether or not the help or harm others." 
"In the political sphere," the Pope said, in words that belong in the Congressional Record, "truthfulness ... between those governing and those governed, openness in public administration, impartiality [and] the rejection of equivocal or illicit means ... all these principles .. . rooted in ... the transcendent value of the person and the objective moral demands of the functioning of States." When these prin­ciples are not observed, the very basis of political coexistence is weakened and the life of society itself is gradually jeopar­dized ... and doomed to decay." (No. 101). 
As John Paul put it: "[T]here can be no freedom apart from or in opposition to the truth ... [O]nly by obedience to uni­versal moral norms does man find full confirmation of his personal uniqueness and the possibility of authentic moral growth ... These norms ... represent the ... foundation .... of genuine democracy, which can ... develop only on the basis of the equality of all its members, who pos­sess common rights and duties. When it is a matter ofthe moral norms prohibit­ing intrinsic evil, there are no privileges or exceptions for anyone. It makes no dif­ference if one is the master of the world or the 'poorest of the poor' on the face of the earth. Before the demands of morali­ty, we are all absolutely equal." (No. 96). 
We have to recover the conviction that "[t]he negative precepts of the natural law ... oblige ... always and in every cir· cumstance ... without exception, because the choice of this kind of behavior is in no case compatible with the goodness of the will of the acting person, with his vocation to life with God and in commu­nion with his neighbor. It is prohibited­to everyone and in every case -to vio­late these precepts. They oblige every· one, ... never to offend in anyone, begin­ning with oneself, the personal dignity common to all ... [O]ne may never choose 

kinds of behavior prohibited by the moral commandments expressed in the Old and New Testaments." (No. 52). 
These principles apply not only to sex but to business and social justice. "The seventh commandment prohibits actions or enterprises which for any reason ­selfish or ideological, commercial or totalitarian -lead to the enslavement of human beings, disregard for their per­sonal dignity, buying or selling or exchanging them like merchandise . Reducing persons ... to use-value or a source of profit is a sin against their dig­nity as persons and their fundamental rights." (No. 100). 
"[l]f there is no ultimate truth to guide and direct political activity," John Paul tells us, "ideas and convictions can easily be manipulated for reasons of power." (No. 101). "Totalitarianism arises out of a denial of truth in the objective sense. If there is no transcendent truth, obedience to which man achieves his full identity, then there is no sure principle for guar­anteeing just relations between people. Their self-interest as a class, group or nation would inevitably set them in oppo­sition to one another ... [T]he force of power takes over, and each person tends to make full use of the means at his dis­posal ... to impose his own interests ... with no regard for the rights of others ... [T]he root of modern totalitarianism is .. . the denial of the transcendent dignity of the human person who, as the visible image of the invisible God, is therefore by his very nature the subject of rights which no one may violate." (No. 99). 
The moral norm, however, is not a set of abstract principles. It is a Person. "/l]n the Crucified Christ ... the Church finds the answer to the question troubling so many people today: how can obndience to universal and unchanging moral norms respect the uniqueness ... of the person, and not represent a threat to his freedom and dignity? ... The Crucified Christ reveals the authentic meaning of freedom: he lives it fully in the total gift ofhimself and calls his disciples to share in his freedom." (No. 85). 
We suffer from "[d [echristianization, which weighs heavily upon entire peo­ples and communities once rich in faith and Christian life. [It] involves not only the loss of faith or ... its becoming irrele­vant for everyday life, but also ... a decline ... ofthe moral sense." (No. 106). "Pilate's question: 'What is truth?,"' said John Paul, "reflects the distressing per· plexity of a man who often no longer knows who he is, whence he comes and where he is going." (No. 84). 
"I have been a Protestant minister for 
nearly half a century," said !lev. Harvey 
Chinn of Sacramento, "but ... I am a bet­
ter Protestant for having studied this 
magnificent Catholic document." 
'"Splendor of Truth,"' Chinn said, "is a 
witness that above and beyond our pre· 
tensr-s and intellectual sophistication 
there shines a moral north star that 
never changes ... The world needs to 
learn from this wise man, who speaks 
with clarity, understanding, compassion 
and authority." 
If you want to keep your head on 
straight in the Clinton era, read Veritatis 
Slendor. Send a copy to Bill and Hillary, 
and pray for them-and for your coun­
try. 

Professor Rice is on the Law School fac­
ulty. His column appears every other 
Friday. 

The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those of The Observer. 

SO HO/A./Ptfi£HOU? UP IN me POU-S 
7H/9 aJeel<., eRSKINe? 
I 
p~e::xJI1 8/R.. Pl3­
9PIT/3 13Vtil<mt/NG ?HATS 8/fteN IJ(JMP/3{} ON 7H/3M, MOSTAMei<ICAN9AR& 5TIU 
YOUR PR0/3t8M. 

!NC/..IN/3lJ 70 FORGIVe YOU 

GARRY TRUDEAU  • QuoTE OF THE DAY  
fi0/I.//3VeR. 7HI3Y'R£ AtSV GTAR71Nr3 70aAMORF0R YOU 70ACTUAUY PO sc;wterHING ABafTIT.. \  'you can't stop Neifi Perez, you can only  

hope to contain him!' 
-Dan Patrick, ESPN Sportscenter 


~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­



VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 16, 1998 ------------------
------------------------------------------------page9 
• THE COMMON Gooo 
The Loyal Dissent of Neo-Conservative 
In my last eolumn, I indicated that Miduwl Novak, Hiehard John Nnuhaus. and George Weigel's rnjec­tion of nconomic rights marks a signif­il:ant divergenc1~-nvnn dissent-
Todd David Whitmore 
from ol'fidal Catholic documents. For .John Paul and the popes who preced­ed him, econornie rights constitute an integral element of thn juridical franwwork that limits the competitive logic of thn market and so helps to maintain the priority of the whole person over material well-being and the eommon good over individual self­interest. The neo-conservatives put forth a juridieal framework that does not include emnomie rights. In tmlay's eolumn I will eontinue thfl dis­nrssion of their rnjection of eco­nomic: rights and the status of such rejeetion as dissent. 
As mnntioned last time, Georgfl Weigel justified the divergence by separating Catholic social "teach­ing" from C:atholic sexual "doc­trine." thereby suggesting that neo-conservative divnrgencc on economic rights docs not bear the significance of Charles Curran's dissent on issues such as artificial eontraception and homosexuality. llow1wer·, we found that .John Paul uses the phrase "C:atholk soda) doctrinn" in "Tcrtio Mellenio Advnniente" in his concernnd statement. "It must be asked how many Christians really know and put into practice the principles or tlw Church's social doctrine." 
.John Paul rnfnrs to Catholic soda! doctrine as well as to Catholic soda! teaching through­out his writing (cf., for instancn, "Sollil'itudo Hei Sot:ialis," 42). Such usage, how1wer. is most prominent in thn docunwnt which the rwo-conservativns claim backs eapitalism, "C1~ntesimus Annus." Tlw narly part of thn docurnnnt sets out its aims in r·elation to previous social eneyclieals. At first. thn Popn uses both terms and adds onn of' his own. "Although tlw cornnwmoration at hand is meant to honor 'Herum Novarum,' it also honors those nncyclicals and other docunwnts of my pn~decnssors whieh have helped to make Pope Leo's encyclical present and alive in history, thus eonstituting what would come to be ealled the dwrch's 'social doc­trirw,' 'social teaching,' or even 'social rnagisterium"' (2). 
As .John Paul's introduetion pro­elwds, his own usagn of the term "soda! doctrine" becomes predomi­nant thn morn he insists on the impor­tanen of the soda! documents as inte­gral to Christian evangelization, mak­ing dear that the elenwnts of the social doetrirw are not optional. "Thn dlllrch. in fact, has something to say about spneific human situations, both individual and communal. national and international. She formulates a c;ENUINE I>OCTHINE for these situa­tions, a eorpus which enablns her to analyze soeial realities, to make judg­ments about them and to indicatn direetions to be taken for the just res-


Economics, Part II 
olution of the problems involved ... In requires, must be openly professed" effect, TO TEACH AND TO SPHEAD (41). In "Quadragesimo Anno" (1931), IIER SOCIAL DOCTHINE PEHTAINS Pius XI writes in reference to Leo's TO TilE CI-IUHCH'S "Herum Novarum,'' EVANGELIZING MIS-"It calls for more SION AND IS AN emphatic assertion ESSENTIAL PAHT OF TO DENY ECONOMIC and more insistent TilE CI-IHISTIAN repetition on the pre­
RIGHTS AS AN INTE­MESSAGE, since this sent occasion 
GRAL PART OF THE JURIDI-

doctrine points out because these salu­
the direct eonse­CAL FRAMEWORK THAT SETS tary injunctions of quenees of that mes­the pontiff have not sage in the life of 
MINIMUM LIMITS ON THE VIQ-infrequently been society and situates LENT EXCESSES OF THE MAR-forgotten, deliberate­ly ignored, or
daily work and strug-KET IS LIKE DENYING THE 

gles for justice in the deemed impractical, context of bearing JUST WAR DOCTRINE AS AN whereas they arc witness to Christ the both feasible and
INTEGRAL PART OF THE 

Savior. This doctrine imperative" (59) . is likewise a souree of JURIDICAL FRAMEWORK John XXIII in "Mater 
unity and peace in THAT SETS MINIMUM LIMITS 

et Magistra" (1961), dealing with the con-affirms, "When in !1icts which inevitably ON THE VIOLENT EXCFSSES the conduct of life 
arise in social and OF WARFARE. 
economic life ... Today, at a distance of a hundred years [from "Herum Novarum"l. the validity of this approach affords me the opportunity to contribute to the devel­
opment of Christian social doctrinn. TilE 'NEW EVANGELIZATION,' which tho modern world urgently needs and whieh I have emphasized many times, MUST INCLUDE AMONG ITS ESSEN­TIAL ELEMENTS A PHOCLAMATION OF TilE CIIUHCli'S SOCIAL DOC­TRINE. As in thn days of Leo XIII, this doctrinn is still suitable for indicating thfl right way to respond to the great challenges of today" (5, emphasns added). It is clear from this passage that George Weigel's distinction bntween social teaching and sexual doetrine with the implieation that dis­sent from the former is not of the same significance as from the latter does not squarn with the Pope's understanding. 
Moreover, John Paul is not the 11rst pope to insist on the obligatory nature of the social doctrine. Leo XIII wrotn in "lmmortale Dei" ("On thn Christian Constitution of States," 1885) that "whatever the Homan Pontiffs have hitherto taught, or shall hereal'ter teaeh, must be held with a firm grasp of mind, and so ol'ten as occasion [Catholics] do not carefully observe principles and norms laid down by the 

Church in social matters, and which we ourselves reaffirm, then they are negligent in their duty and often 
injure the rights of others" (241). Finally, .John Paul himself, in refer­ence to Paul VI's "Populorum Progressio," writes, "The social doc­trine has once. more demonstrated its character as an application of the word of God to people's Jives and the life of society, as well as to the earthly realities connected with them, offer­ing 'principles of reflection,' 'criteria of judgment,' and 'directives for action"' ("Sollicitudo Hei Socialis,'' 8). 
• That economic rights are among the basic principles, as distinct from derivative applications, of the C:atholic social doctrine is evident in the docu­ments themselves. "Herum Novarum;·~· the "Magna Carta" of modern Catholic doetrine, identifies rights to a just wage and humane working conditions (33 and 34). "Mater et Magistra" dis­cusses thn just wage and then states that what precise monetary amount constitutes the just wage in any par­ticular applied circumstance depends on a variety of factors, including the state of the economy (71 and 72). The economic right to a just wage is the 
.. 

basic principle; the debate, for instance, in Congress recently about whether to raise the minimum wage to six dollars an hour is a debate about proper application. 
The American Catholic bishops' 1983 "The Challenge of Peace," though on the topic of war and peace, can help sort out the exact binding nature of the doctrine on economic rights. Here, the bishops make the distinction between fundamental prin­ciples, which are binding on all per­sons including those who are not Catholic, on the one hand, and the applications of those principles to spe­cific circumstances, on the other. Among the "universally binding moral principles," they cite are the just war criteria of noncombatant immunity and proportionality (9). One can be more restrictive on the use of force ­that is, be pacifist-but the just war principles mark the outside bound­aries of acceptable activity. What pre­cisely constitutes proportionate activi­ty in a specific situation may be open to debate, but the fact of the principle is not. If these same distinctions carry over to the economic sphere -that is, 
if the social doc­trine is to be con­sistent-then it seems that the cla.im that there are economic 

# rights rests on the same level as the claim that there is a just war tradi­tion and that the enumeration of those rights ­again, for instance, the right to housing, to clothing, to work, to hum~ne work­ing conditions, and to a just wage-is equal to theenu­meration of thn just war norms like proportionality and noncombatant immunity: they are universally bind­ing. To deny eco­nomic rights as an integral part of thn juridical frame­work that sots minimum limits on the violent excess­
es of the market is like denying the just war doctrine as an integral part of the juridical framework that sets minimum limits on the violent excess­es of warfare. The neo-conservatives' rejection of economic rights, there­fore, clearly constitutes dissent from Church doctrine. In my rwxt column, I will show how moving to assent with Catholic doctrine will requirn more than a simple change of mind for the neo-conservatives because they rein­force their denial of such rights with certain foundational theological and philosophical claims. They will havn to change much of their SYSTEM of thought to move in accord with John Paul. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associ­ale professor of theology. /lis column appears e11ery other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 





... 
page 10------------------OBSERVERTHE ------------Friday, October 16, 1998 
...., _______W_AfN
··=·.-. . 
-· ····-«-::::;,~, .:­
···.. . } . .. • • ..,,,>< ........ . J ...... 
• SCENE 

What's 
; 
ever gr:ven ·· · · ··:· .· .· ..···...........·...-.....·IL--­. •stqerrrPe~ding? ·· .. 
f'i£+
nest Occifer, been #rinkin g." 
KevirJ-]inks, 

·def Road"-Bruce Spr,ingste5&1U@ Sr. , OffCampus ( 
is a 1Highway" -Tom Citochran 1
. _; p· '' T"'\ M 1.. 
. ncan ~~-hrnw~9.:1\l ac ~an ' the Go~a Uit~-·-\Y6ong" +--Billy Joel Wanna Do" -Sheryl ~row ~ -----#--"--r···-.,.,,..,__ ."... .· s in Latitudes, Changes in Attitudes" ­J' Buffet 


n~~~X::~j~--~l~:;.~~~-~~::~\~t•~!tt=h~~e~~w~s BandU' ~~~ J.;
ri rooks the Days" -10,000 Mapiacs ~JO. ~'Gooil ance"(TimeOf Your 
·•· ife)­
i~.•• JltaJ1 Green Day ,:wt 
. 
11 "M' rt C/ " T'~ C
• tl) ar -~~~•......._.-t,J;~!~ ,
"My · .is starring in a 

12. "Sweet Caroline';.,; :: Neil'Diamond
and,&I to get it to 

13. "Take ~he Money and Run"-Steve Miller Band1
OftJl\tittsal.'~-\,,,, Hi t 

1 1 J4. "Friend of the Devil" -Grateful Dead
Beth Schlemm""''""4 Fr., Walsh Ha'~l.,, 15. ''Getlnto.....M~g~~'' :-.._~illy Ocean 
16. "Jack and Di'~~~¥' -·····.. JohnMeHencamp........ ··*·'""'''"'· 
·=='<;_..;;.{. 

17. "Get Out the Map"-Indigo <Girls.,"*~~""'"""«·······N
, ""::...:::·:<,->:;.,,\ 

18. "GirlsiJust Wann~ h~~lll' fiyn1'-Cindi Lauper
"My.;r~~Jill.oth~~ f~JJ~i·~~!;. 1 
19. "Fun,JFun, Fun"':::___ Beach B ys ,
·:·· r
and I am goipg·\to see her 
v ........ J.... .._..,.,·, 

Jive and Wail" -Bri.
in the hosp~t~l."'\ 
David Harpole 


R tAT/ON:,
Fr. Keough Hall 


l ;:wv ir •Jit DEEP THOUGHTS 
"My·:pri~~t''tt-i .. _... 

Where do you see yourselfi in five years? 
r
'Would you Believe ···· 

are male/female relations at Notre Dame so 
going to hear confession .. 
·······.·.·· ...... warped?.

Patrick;Mousaw 2 
l'"'"'''H•:•;w"J&;"'*¥"*•'!-%iA".,.,,,,.................,;"",'"·············"'""'''''''''<io""''' "· zev e 1 . e a v en? Sr. , K~enan Hall 
...........,, 


ur image ofGod? 
:~:1 r favorite book? What •. you afraid of? "Just got lJitk .ii-bi\itia€ilp·. ·. etnr-osmo ShouldClin ··-•-. · · impeafiutd? .. ... ··· 
Ifyou had three wis ·· wh ,
tion in Carribean ant:Ll 

What is you I job?
caught ~-xir,\1;.~ applre~JYt' need to·~o'·to<ih-~ ·H~th'~·-.)''·· 1 Ur Can girlJ .pnft /JQjJ~ 1 he "just frien 
--::,,.;::·· :j ~ ~ =~ ,,, ~:,J. \) ::: ,, \.s· ~:...~ r~C\01 " §''" What's your most embarrassing mom..... 
"".·,'.··'"1"'_;_». ,. •' ·~ iL AJ
· ...·•_.···;,,.,_,\0-..H'_., F a···u·. .""·.
..'

flm M·Ju§atu i • · v What does it mean to be a true frien . ·n .ii:u;,:i-10-aits~;lak!l 
[~~~ 1rflii!J? 




w 
ceJ10 D 
O
THE 11
f-riday, October 16, 1998 .-------------BSERVER ---------------page 



AKE A R 
T~IP/?
r , I" 

e roadtrip essentials th~i fwill 
i \,\cf 
'Ve more fu_~Jor e'Vetra~!J~\Au~6~~. · 
·-·~ ""'

tle eye, something ... (fill in the blank with a ~olor)." Everyone else then tries to guess what it is. 
2. "20 Questions"-One passenger thinks of a famous person, movie, hook, etc., and the o~her pas­
, 

senget·s try to guess what it is by asking "yes" and 
----~' 
.

'' no'' questions. 
3. 
"'fhe License Plate Game" -The first person to see and identify all 50 United States' license plates wins (add Canada for an extra challenge). <, , . 

4. 
"'fhe ABC game"-The first person to see all26 letters on road signs wins! 

5. 
"T'ruth or Dare"-You remember this one from· 4th grade sltunber parties -watch out, dare~;,' in a 7lt car ride can get interesting. /'-s 


..,­

6. 
"Mind Puzzles"-Puzzles such as: "A man was found dead in his car, with all the doors and win­dows locked. How was he killed?" 

7. 
"Try to Guess the Next Song on the Radio"­Kind of resembles "Name that Tune." 


·-··· 

;,/··.~7 C·ards 


. . Cellular phone 
..9~~Maps and directions 
10. 
PaiJer to make window signs 

11. 
Emergency gas money 

12. 
Flashlight 

13. 
Tissues 

14. 
First aid kit 

15. 
Emergency tool seti6. Spdre tire 


·t1 17, Blankets and warm clothing 
18. 
Camera 

19. 
Ejmergency phone numbers 

20. 
Homework?????? 


2t,,,Spmeone who's not afraid to speed J, 22. Someone to tell them to slow down " 23. Extn1' set of car keys 
24. Car insurance and registration 
··...i ' ' ( 
25. Your sense of humor 
1. 
F oo9,""""" -..: 

2. 
Tap~~..::qr,.,,.CIDs 


~ ~-~ ~ 
3. Magazines and books 4~ QriQks (only legal ones) 
5. 
Driver's license 

6. 
A radar detector


;-.., 
---------~-----~~----­

• SMC GOLF 
Belles completing successful inaugural season 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Sporrs Wrirer 
Consistency has been the key to success for Coach Pekarek and the Saint Mary's golf team. 
Relying heavily on under­classmen to drive her team, Pekarek's consistency has been rooted most deeply in Mary Claire Hathaway and Megan Kelleher, who again turned in the Belles' best rounds Wednesday at Calvin College. 
"Nobody's jumping up high, and everybody has been keep­ing their scores pretty much where they've been," said Pekarek. "We've been consis­tent keeping our scores under 
100. which is great to see." 
Hathaway turned in the team's leading score on Wednesday, shooting 93, fol­lowed by Kelleher with 97. 
"I was well rested and ready to play," said Hathaway. "I've been concentrating on my short game, and I did a good job keeping it in the fairway." 
Other top finishers included Heather Podraza, shooting 104, Kyle Veltri, shooting 105, and Melissa Nelson, shooting 107. 
The Belles improved their standing to fourth in the MIAA division, finishing with a team score of 399. 
The Belles will most likely fin­ish in fourth place at their final match Saturday. said Pekarek. They currently stand 100 shots behind Defiance College. 
"It's an individual thing now," she said. "399 is the second best team score we've had; our best was 383. I'd be thrilled to see us shoot 380 [on Saturday]. Seeing everyone break the threshold of 100 would also be great." 
A fourth place finish, howev­er, is nothing of a disappoint­ment for the Belles as they close their first season. 
"We've had a very successful first season, the fact that we will place in the top percentage of our conference surprises a lot of the top teams," said Hathaway. 
The key to the Belles' success is the short game, according to Pekarek. 
"I've been really happy with the progress that we've made," she said. "That's a direct result of practicing our short game. The girls have been putting much better. None of the teams [in the MIAA] have really good short games. If we can improve our short game next year, we'll be up there compet­ing with Hope, Albion, and the teams in the number one spot in the division." 

The Belles are already look­ing ahead to next season, armed by youth and the possi­bility of new players, said Pekarek. 
"Since we have a lot of under­class players, if we can get our seores under 100 now, there is no reason why we can't com­pete with the top schools next year," she said. "There are also a lot of girls who are interested in playing who didn't know we have a team, and some inter­ested incoming freshmen." 
And bonded by competition among the team, there is moti­vation for improvement. 


Flawless Batch leads Lions past Favre, Packers 
Associated Press 
PONTIAC. Mich. 

Brett Favre continued to make mistakes while Charlie Batch plays error-free foot­ball. 
The Detroit defense torched Favre for three interceptions while Batch played like any­thing but a rookie in the Lions' 27-20 victory over the Green Bay Packers in an NFC game Thursday night. 
"I never felt like Charlie wasn't confident," said Detroit coach Bobby Ross, who benched veteran Scott Mitchell in favor of Batch after just two games. "There are just things he needs to see that he contin­ues to see. 
"This is the third straight game he hasn't turned the ball over. In this league, that's something special." 
It was the second straight loss for the Packers (4-2) and dropped them further behind the Minnesota Vikings (5-0) in the division race. The Lions (2-4) fought back from a 10-0 deficit and outscored Green Bay 17-7 in the fourth quar­ter. 
Batch, who was 16-of-19 for 218 yards without an intercep­tion, hooked up with fellow rookie Germane Crowell for a 68-yard touchdown pass play to take a 17-13 lead on the first play of the fourth quarter and Barry Sanders, who had 155 yards on 25 carries, sprinted 73 yards for another touchdown with 8:05 left. 
"He (Batch) gives you an ability to do some things," Ross said of his second-round draft pick out of Eastern Michigan. "You can move him in the pocket, you can sprint him some, you can boot it. It's just very gratifying to have a young man like that to work with. I just love him." 
It was the third straight game in which Favre has thrown three interceptions. His third against Detroit set up Jason Hanson's 36-yard field 
goal to ice the victory with 
2:08 remaining. 
Favre, who was 22-of-43 for 300 yards, had a 67 -yard touchdown pass to Antonio Freeman in the first quarter and a 14-yarder to Freeman with three seconds left in the game. 
Favre has thrown 17 inter­
'THIS IS THE THIRD 
STRAIGHT GAME HE 
HASN'T TURNED THE BALL 
OVER. IN THIS LEAGUE 
THAT'S SOMETHING SPE­

CIAL.' 
BOBBY ROSS 
LIONS HEAD COACH 
ON ROOKIE QB CHARILE BATCH 
ceptions against 14 touchdown passes in the Pontiac Silverdome. Last season, he also had an ugly day at the Silverdome, throwing three interceptions, including one from his knees that linebacker Reggie Brown returned for a score in a Detroit victory. 
Mark Carrier, burned when he failed to switch to Freeman on the 67 -yard touchdown pass play on Green Bay's fourth snap of the game, made up for it the next time he was tested. 
Carrier, playing like a center fielder, leaped in front of Freeman to snag Favre's pass in front of the Green Bay bench early in the second quarter and returned it 33 yards to the Packers 12. 
"We really settled down there and that's what having him means," Ross said. "We've got so many young guys out there.... Carrier just has to get us settled down and he did that and he played a heck of a ballgame." 
Four plays later, on fourth­and-1 at the 3, Batch got the Packers to bite on a good fake to fullback Tommy Vardell running into the line, then flipped a touchdown pass to Pete Chryplewicz all alone in the left corner of the end zone to tie it 10-all. 

Ryan Longwell gave the Packers a 10-0 lead with a 28­yard field goal with 3:08 left in the first quarter. 
Roell Preston's 4 7 -yard return with the second-half kickoff helped set up Longwell's 40-yarder for the only score of the third quarter and a 13-10 Green Bay lead. 
The Lions drove from their 9 to the Green Bay 2. only to have Vardell's fumble kill that drive. 
On their next possession, however, the Lions went 69 yards in just three plays for the go-ahead touchdown on the pass to Crowell. 
Sanders had an 80-yard touchdown called back by a holding penalty about two minutes after his 73-yard score. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for nexr-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ed contact Amanda @x3199.  Ultra Wheels Kriptonics  Need 2 Baylor GAs.  ones are coming ...  
NOTICES  CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED  Men's 13 New $285 Sale $75 CROSS COUNTRY BICYCLE  Please call212·636-7472.  TURNER'S HOLIDAY BAZAAR  
Lost· Brown, leather, Wilson  EARN UP TO $11.00  Univega Activa for tall men  THE OBSERVER will not be pub·  
Early Spring Break  football w/ Alabama High School  Part-time work around class.  New $450 Sale $125  lished during fall break so if you  SATURDAY,OCTOBER24  
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6  insignia on the side- No telemarketing. Car needed  Both Used Once Call1·4001  have Army tix to sell, put your clas­ 8:30-2:30  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  last seen friday 8/9 on or near McGlinn fields· has special sentimental value-if found  Scholarships available. call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed. 282-2357.  TICKETS  sified ad in before Friday, Oct. 16.  Welcome Freshman Michael Edwards!  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  please call Chris at 4-1817  Need 2 Baylor GAs ASAP  
Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With  FOR RENT  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272·6306  Top Dollar  $6.00 Haircuts Vito's Barbershop  
Kitchen,? Free Parties  """'"LOST''''""'  1523 Lincolnway West  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  3 COM PALM Ill electronic  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  TICKETMART Inc  631 . 6750  Closed Wed. & Sun.  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  organizer  CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  BUY-SELL-TRADE  233-4767  
1-800-678-6386  Lost on Friday October 9, at aprox. 7:00pm  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  Notre Dame Football Tickets 258·1111  ...........................,.....  
PARENTS-STUDENTS-ALUMNI  If found please call Carl  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  No student tickets please  2 Baylor GA's for sale.  Annie in Austria!!!!!!!!  
@ 273-2530 (no ?'s asked)  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  call Henry at 634·3520.  We miss you! Have fun!!!!  
Own a piece of ND history  ••••••••REWARD'"'''  TO CAMPUS. 243·0658.  Please leave message.  
FOR SALE  
Attend the LARGEST ND COL·  LOST:  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  FOOTBALL TICKETS  1 Baylor GA for sale  HAPPY BIRTHDAY  
LECTIBLE SALE & AUCTION  Blue,ND wallet cointaining  Breakfast Inn has space available  271-9412  leave offer 4x1067  
ID,Detex, license. Lost at  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  Yes, I am too cheap to do a birth­ 
FRIDAY, OCT. 23, 1998  DeBartolo.  with private baths,$B0­ WANTED  day ad, and .hey, by Friday, my  
11 am to 11 pm  Please call Carolyn x1439  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Need 3 Aerosmith Tix  buddy BRIAN SWEET will be out of  
campus.  271-1526  Call Pete @ 4·0973  town anyway. So here is wishing  
LOGAN CENTER  Toll Road, Exit #107  you a happy 21st Sweet. You are  
Eddy & Angela  1·800-418-9487  ND Ftbl. tix  certainly "one of the most beautiful  
Info call219-257-0039  WANTED  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  BUY-SELL 674-7645  4 Sale -1 Army GA. Best offer. Must sell by Friday.  girls on campus..." NICE, this is GOLDEN, and I'll give  
1000 RARE ITEMS FROM  info:  Chad -271·9341  you 50 dollars to make you hol- 
ROCKNE, HUNK, LEAHY,  SPRING BREAK '99  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  lar ....  
PARSEGHIAN,etc.  Sign up early and get the following  219·291-7153.  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  
FREE:$30.00 off package,14 FREE  674-7645  FB TIX FOR SALE  
Portion of Proceeds Benefit the  Meals, and 20 Hours of AII-U-Can  BED & BREAKFAST: Home away  1 Army I 3 Baylor  I found a caterpillar in my NOH  
Parseghian Medical Foundation  Drink FREE Parties. Call College  from home! 2 miles from campus.  NO Football Tickets Needed.  KATY (x-3618)  salad yesterday!  
Tours FREE at (800)395·4896 or  Queen beds, 1 room w/ twins.  AM 232-2378 PM 288·2726  Kathryn K  
'"Hoosier State Games TABLE  surf the web:www.collegetours.com  Private baths. 272-9471 .  
..­ TENNIS qualifier October 24 at South Bend Recreational Table Tennis Club.Caii1·BOO-HI·FIVES or  STUDEBAGELS hopes that you  FOR SALE  NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378  Have 6 Baylor Need 3Army Call Miazga 247-9035  Jason-have fun huntin'.  
Danny Seem iller at (219)654­ have a great fall break. We are  PM 288-2726  
7476."'  looking for someone to work at our  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  I need 3 Army Ga's & also have 2  Here's a nice classified for you.  
ILOST & FO~ND I  Campus Shoppes location. Will work with your schedule. 1801 South Bend Ave-Please apply in  198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805  Always buying and selling N 0 foot· ball tickets. 289-8048  stud tix to sell (face) or trade. 4· 2795  Woo-hoo!  
Lost last Spring: Pentex Super Program 35mm  person. FEMALE MODELS Wanted for  FOR SALE. LIVE PH ISH CDS! Bed box set. not available in U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  NO MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S­PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568  PERSONAL  Sarah Julie-You're my favorite, i'm proud of you and I'll miss you over break. You are the opposite of  
Camera w/ Vivatar flash, gray case.  undergrad photo project. Diverse  x2242  nasty-funk.  
Call Susan 255-2369  ages and races wanted. If interest- IN LINE SKATES  Look out big kid's bars, the young  

page 12  The Observer· SPORTS  Friday, October 16, 1998  


Friday, October 16, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• ON SPORTS MEOlA 
Enberg and Haden to visit Notre Dame 
Special to The Observer 
NBC Sports announcers Dick Hnlwrg and l'at lladnn will snrvn as eo-hosts for a symposium titlnrl. "Thn lnl'lunnee of T1~lovision Sports on Modern Socioty," sponsored by the Univnrsity of Notrn Dame At.hldic l>npartmnnl. 
Tlw nvnnt. whieh is open to thn public, will bn hnld at 3 p.m. on OctolH~r :w. at thn Jordan Auditorium in llw Collegn of Businnss Administration. 
l~nbnrg earnnd his baehnlor's dngrnn in hnalth science from C1~ntral Michigan in 1957, his nHtstm·'s in lwalth science from Indiana in I1)59 -and his doe­toratn in health science from Indiana in 1961. lie's the win­JH'r of ninn Emmy Awards and thrnn timns has hnnn namnd Sportswstnr of tho Ynar. 
Hnbnrg roturn!HI to Notrn Danw football broadcasts in 1')'JX af'tnr also calling play by play in 1991 and '92, the first two snasons of Notrn Damn's contract with NBC Sports. lin has hnnn with NBC sincn I 975, lwgan his earnnr as a 1:ollegn baskotball announcnr, has bnnn nxtPnsivnly involvnd in NBC's last thnH! Summnr Olympics !:ov­nraw~. has worknd night Sup1~r Bowls -and also has been a constant with NBC's coverage of tnnnis and golf. 
!laden was awarded a bache­lor's in English literature from Southern California in 197.5, a bachnlor's in philosophy, polities and economies from Oxford Univnrsity in England in 197X ­and a J.D. from Loyola Law School in 1982. lie was an NCAA Post-Graduatn Scholarship Winner in 1975 and was named to the GTE Academic All-America Hall of Fame in 19XX. 
lladon joinod NBC Sports in '98, though he previously worknd Notre Dame football games as analyst for CBS (1982­1 990). The fimner USC quarter­back (lw lnd the Trojans to two national titles and three Hosn Bowl appnarenees), who also playnd snven snasons in the National Football League (six with the Los Angnles Hams). spnnt the last night years as an NFL analyst for TNT Sports. 
Iladnn became a general part­ner in the vnnturn capital firm of Hiordan, Lnwis & lladen in 1987 and servos on the boards of dirnetors of seven portfolio eom­panins. lie is currently of eoun­sPI to thn Los Angnles law firm of Biordan & McKenzie. 

FOXBOHO, Mass. 
Drew Bledsoe wasn't himself the first time he played against his former coach, Bill Pareells. and tho New York Jets. The normally calm quarterback wM fired up and his passes wore misfiring. 
When Bledsoe and the New England Patriots face them at home Monday night, he should be much different. He is at the top of the game and in control of his team and his emotions. 
"You're always learning in this league," Bledsoe said Thursday. 
''For me to be successful ... I'm pretty level-headed." 
He's been very steady all sea­son. his second under coach Pete Carroll, especially in last Sunday's 40·10 rout of the Kansas City Chiefs and the NFL's No. 1 defense. He com­pleted 17 of 26 passes for 226 yards, three touchdowns and no interceptions, and led tho Patriots on seven straight scor­ing drives. 
That performance was noth­ing like the way he played in the third game last season when Parcells, in his first year as coach of' the .Jets after four seasons with the Patriots, came to town. 
Bledsoe didn't always appre­ciate Parcells' high-volume 
Established 1965 
Diamolllds Elllgagement Rilllgs & Weddilllg Balllds 18karat Yellow Go[d & P[atilllum.
-
Thinking of purchasing a diamond?. 

Choose wisely with information in our comph~~ntary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd edition, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 

Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m.. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

Have you ever been affected by breast cancer? Would you like to share your story? 
St. Mary's RHA is 
planning a breast 
cancer event on 
Wednesday, October 
28th, and we need 


your help. 
Please contact Mary Ellen at 284-4381. 






UNITED LIMO 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
CORRECTION 
Current Schedule 
Leave Notre  Arrive O'Hare  Arrive Midway  
Dame  Domestic  Airport  
Main Gate  Terminals 1 ,2 & 3  Via Tri State  
Coach Transfer  
3:05AM  6:05AM  6:30AM  
4:05AM  7:20AM  7:30AM  
5:05AM  8:20AM  8:30AM  
7:05AM  10:05 AM  10:30 AM  
9:05AM  12:05 PM  12:30 PM  
10:05 AM  1:05PM  1:30PM  
11:05 AM  2:05PM  2:30PM  
1:05PM  4:05PM  4:30PM  
3:05PM  6:05PM  6:30PM  
5:05PM  8:05PM  8:30PM  

• Watch for a schedule change October 25th• 
•NFL 


Bledsoe hungry for tuna 
instructions and was eager to 
succeed against his former 
coach. 

Instead, he was 16-for-34 for 
162 yards, two touchdowns 
and two interceptions as the 
Patriots had to go to overtime 
to win 27·24. 
Now, though, he credits Parcells with helping him develop. 
"T had to learn some tough­ness. I had to have a thick skin, because he challenged you," Bledsoe said. "You learn to play with some distractions during practice during the week and l think that has a positive effect on me and on tho team. 
"Outside of the ways that the messages were delivered, the messages that both Bill and Pete have tried to address are pretty much the same." 
Bledsoe has been consistllnt all s!lason, completing at least 60 percent of his passes and throwing no interceptions in four of his five games. He's thrown for eight touchdowns, three interceptions and an average of 260 yards per game. 
"It's really come together for him," Patriots linebacker Ted Johnson said. "I've never seen him play with this much confi­dence." 
Bledsoe, who has missed just four games out of a possible 85 in his six pro seasons, is set to 
make his 50th consecutive 
start. the longest current streak 
in the AFC, on Monday night. 
"Just being out there more and more and more makes you more capable of deciding the things because you begin to gain an understanding," Parcells said. "It's really called a maturation process. You have to remember, he was only 20 (actually 21) years old when we got him." 
Bledsoe was Parcells' first pick as coach of the Patriots, taking him with the opening choice in the 1993 draft. Bledsoe threw two scoring passes on optming day. but the Patriots lost their first four games with him at quarter­back. 
They finished 5-11 but, in his fourth season, they went to the Super Bowl. losing to Green Bay. Carroll took over the next season and now the Patriots (4­
l) have a realistic ehance or rt~turning to the championship game. 
"We're still a young team but we are a little more battle­hardened than a team that has our average age normally would be," Bledsoe said. "The important thing for me is to approach each game in the same fashion and, ultimately, to go out in a game and make the correct decisions and the correct throws. 
I 
1 
.. 
page 14 

-·· 
NBA lockout talks turn nasty 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

On the day before the NBA was to respond to the players' latest offer, union director Billy Hunter said hard·line remarks by Knicks president Dave Checketts showed the league is intent on breaking the union. 
Checketts compared the basketball lockout to the base­ball strike of 1994-95 and said baseball owners made a mis· take by settling too soon. 
"We .must keep them out as long as it takes," he said. 
In his response, Hunter said, "The NBA and its owners will stop at nothing short of break· ing the union and the morale of the players." 
The harsh words symbolized a heightened atmosphere of tension surrounding the lock­out, which went through its 107th day Thursday. The NBA has already canceled the first two weeks of the season, and more games will be lost if the sides can't reach agreement soon on a new collective bar· gaining proposal. 
Negotiators for the league spent Thursday working on a counterproposal to be sent to the union Friday. A key factor to watch for was whether the owners latched onto the union's proposal for a luxury tax on high-end salaries to slow player payroll growth. 
Judging from the comments make by Checketts, the own­ers don't seem willing to give much ground. 
"If we learned anything from baseball (the strike of 1994-95), it is that we must keep them out as long as it takes. They didn't hold them out long enough," Checketts said. 
"Even though we'd like to say we learned from baseball -what they did to the World Series and when they went through this long labor situa­tion, it ruined the sport," Checketts said at a breakfast symposium in New York. "It ruined fan interest. People were angry at the game. But the reality is. once they had incurred that damage, the mistake they made was com­ing back too soon, perhaps, and not getting a labor agree· ment that would carry them into the next century." 
Hunter issued a statement in response: 
"Our players desperately want to play ball. The fans want us to play. But apparent· ly the owners want to shut down, according to Mr. Checketts. It's unfortunate and very apparent t'rom his remarks that the NBA and its owners will stop at nothing short of breaking the union and the morale of the players. Our most recent proposal was extremely fair, and submitted with the intent of bringing compromise," Hunter said. 
Despite an internal gag order prohibiting NBA employees from commenting about the lockout, Checketts will not be fined, league spokesman Chris Brienza said. 
The union, meanwhile, had a new skirmish to deal with. Agent Stephen Woods, who represents Kevin Willis of Toronto and Willie Burton of San Antonio, nled a grievance with the National Labor Relations Board accusing the union of mismanaging negoti­ations with the NBA. 
Woods believes union lead­
ership is overmatched by NBA 
commissioner David Stern and 
the 29 team owners. 
"They're still using rotary phones at the union," Woods said. "I don't think (union president) Patrick Ewing and (executive board member) Alonzo Mourning are equipped to make a $10 bil­lion deal. I don't want to be on the bus going over the cliff with Patrick Ewing and Alonzo Mourning driving it." 
Woods, who has been a vocal critic of the union since the lockout began July 1, has been threatened with decerti­fication. 
Amid all the squabbling, both sides were still awaiting a ruling from arbitrator John Feerick on the union's griev­ance over whether more than 200 players with guaranteed contracts should be paid dur­ing the lockout. 

The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 16, 1998 
• SMC SOCCER 

Team to -work hard over break 
By KATIE FURMAN Sports Writer 
While the Saint Mary's women travel home for fall break, the Belles' soccer team will be working as hard as ever, not experiencing a break of their own until Thanksgiving. 
Accompanying the continuous training will be four games, two at home and two away. 
"We will work on the basics, dribbling, passing and mark­ing," coach Bob Sharp said. "Then we always try to work in scrimmages and begin more specific offensive tactics." 
Throughout the week, the women will practice once a day on days they don't have games. The first game, at noon on Saturday, is against Alma College at home. The Scots' record currently stands at 4-9. 
"I think that it's an even-up game," said Sharp. "We aren't going to play anything special. It will come down to the strongest team and it will be 
us." 
The second, on Monday, is against Rockford College in enemy territory. Rockford, coached by Lee Carley, has fin­ished second in the conference for the past two years and is looking to make it a first-place finish this year. 
The team has two returning all conference players as well as many women with years of experience. 
On Wednesday the Belles will face Hope College at home. The Flying Dutch's current record is 3-2 in league play. 
The final game over break is on the 24th at Defiance College at noon. This could be a chance for the Belles to add to their win column. The Lady Jackets have yet to win a league game in five attempts. 
While the Belles' soccer sea­son has not been extremely successful, many players have seen a significant improvement since the beginning of the sea­son. 


"I think they have worked well as a team this year. On the field they look like they are working hard and working together to achieve their goal of getting the W," said team man­ager Nicole Longar. "The score of the game sometimes doesn't do them justice as to how hard they are working and how well they are playing." 
Goaltender Jo Wagner also noted improvements over the course of the season. 
"We have improved our pass­ing and talking on the field," she said. "We also have gelled as a team." 
With all the improvement, however, there is still much room for further work. 
"We have to work on finish­ing offensive opportunities and the offense has to create more opportunities for themselves," Wagner said. 

"There is room for improve­ment in our team self confi­dence of our ability to win because I think we are at the level of our competition but are not putting out our best effort," said defender and midfielder Mary Hoffman. 
Playing and hoping to improve a lackluster record is not the only benefit the Belles sec with the break. 
The team will also have bond­ing time, a possible road trip to Chicago, and plenty of time to catch up on homework. 
"I am looking forward to bonding with the team. We know how everyone is on the field, so now we get to see how everyone is personally in every­day life," said freshman mid­fielder Melissa Wychocki. 
• •  NOTRE DAME APARTMENTS •ONLYAFEWLEFf!! •Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus •Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available •October-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent •Pre-Leasing for Fall of'99 6699The IBesf Val1lll.e iin OH'-Camp1l.lls Hl(])1lllsiingManaged By Real Estate Management Corportation 234-9923  •  

And steer yourself toward success. Navistar operates one of the world's largest facilities dedicated to the design, development and testing of trucks and truck components. And we can provide you with the challenges you're looking for in a post-graduate career. If you'll be receiving a BSME, MSME, BSEE or MSEE degree, meet us on campus at the: 
Na...,-istar lnforJDalion Session l:enler For l:onlinuing Edu«:alion Roo01 #11~ Wednesday, O«:toLer ~8 
fi:00pDI 

On-campus representatives will be there to tell you all about the 200 Design Engineering positions avail· able at our leading-edge company. Along with the opportunity to apply the very latest technologies, we offer attractive starting salaries, comprehensive benefit plans and outstanding advancement potential. Come for the information and stay for the refreshments. 
Can't attend? Send your resume or letter of interest to: Navistar International Transportation Corp., Attn: Human Resources, Dept. DNFP-1004, P.O. Box ll09, Ft. Wayne, IN 46801, Fax: (219) 461-1453. Email: ata@navistar.com. Visit our web site at: www.mixi.net/-ntc2. An equal opportunity/affirmative 
action employer m/f/d/v. 
Questions Or More Information Call1-888-347-3647 or (219) 461-7520. 


N~VISTNI. 
Friday, October !6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

Jury finds in favor of Jordan 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

A jury rulHd in favor of Miehaol Jordan on Thursday in a broach-of-contract lawsuit that nceusod him of breakit1g a deal to star in a 1991 basketball movie that ended up flopping wiUwut him. 
Tho Cook County jury, also ruling on a eountorclaim Jordan filed, found the producers of ''llpavon is a Playground." falso­ly inl'ormod the Bulls superstar that they had obtainnd sufficient financing for tho film. 
Tho jury awarded .Jordan $;i0,000 in compensatory dam­ages for the l'ee Jot·dan was paid -and then gave back ­to llravcn Corp. 
lie was awarded no punitive damagos. The jury deliberated about seven hours. "From the very beginning, I 

have believed that once these facts became apparent, there would be no doubt that this was nothing more than an attempt to realize personal gain at my expense," Jordan said in a writ· ten statement. "I will never hack down in the face of this kind of personal attack for money, either now or in the future.'' 
Jordan, who sat in the court· t·oom , nearly every day, testified that he didn't refuse to appear in the movie and that both sides had agreed to postpone filming, which was to have started in 1989. 
Filmmakers Handy Fried and Keith Bank alleged that Jordan, swayed by agent David Falk, was holding out for a better opportunity than the $350,000 he was to have received. 
The movie received no nation­al distribution and went almost straight to video after earning just $168,000. 
The plaintiffs argued that ,JordancQuld have made the film a .. blockbuster' .status it didn't achieve with his role going to former l~oyola Marymount basketball star Bo Kimble. 
"Doesn't have the same ring, does it?'' plaintiffs' lawyer Dean Dickie said during the trial. 
Falk, Jordan's longtime agent, initially was listed as a defen· dant but Judge Richard Neville ordered him removed from the case because he was acting under Jordan's authorization. 
Dickie, who acknowledged that putting Jordan on trial in Chicago was akin to "trying God in Heaven," instead tried to shift the focus to Falk, portraying him as a greedy wheeler-dealer who had no qualms about hack~ ing out of the deal when it became clear Jordan could do better. 

Jagr is Penguins' highest-paid 
Associated Press 
PITTSBUHGII 

Two-timr~ NIIL scoring eham­pion Jaromir Jagr's $4,9R8,491 salary is nearly twien that of any tt~ammate, according to the National llockoy Lnaguc !'layers 1\sso(:iation's annual colliJWnsation survey. 
But tlwn~·s an asterisk ­.lagr is only ltw Penguins' high­est-paid activn playnr. Thn Penguins still OW(~ rntired star Mario L(~llli(~ux $28.7 million in ddorrml money, or nnough that it would put. him atop the sur­vey il' lw wore still playing. 
1\nd. y11s. the Penguins are still playing-and paying ­nvnn though they filed for Chapter 1 I bankruptcy protec­tion on Tuesday for the second limn in their 31-year-old histo­ry. 
Co-owrwr Hogllr Marino lent tho loam $2.5 million -at 8 percont interest, to be rnpaid in two months to meet Thursday's $200,000 payroll, tlw first due this season. 
Jagr became the Penguins' highest-paid player by negotiat­ing a $38 million, four-year contract extension in January, shortly before helping lead the Czeeh Republic to the Olympic gold medal. 
It was the last multiyear con­tract negotiatr~d by a Penguins player before the team's fiscal problems worsened, leaving gcnnral managnr Craig Patriek unable to pursue big-name free agnnts. 
And not only did the Penguins fail to sign any notable free agents, they lost star center Hon Francis to Carolina's $20 million, four-year offer. At $5 million per year, Francis makes more than any Penguins player, even Jagr. 
Unlike past seasons, when the Penguins often had three or four of the NHL's top 20 paid players, only Jagr makes the list this season at No. 17. 
Sergei Fedorov of the Detroit Hod Wings is the NHL's top­paid player at $14 million, or more than $5 million more than any other player. His compen­sation swelled to an NBA-Iike level last season after the Red Wings matched an above-mar­ket-value offer from the Carolina Hurricanes that included a $14 million signing bonus. 
Also in the top 10 are Paul Kariya, Anaheim, $8.5 million; Erie Lindros, Philadelphia, $8.5 million; Dominik Hasek, Buffalo, $8 million; Mats Sundin, Toronto, $6.35 million; Peter Forsberg, Colorado, $6 million; Doug Gilmour, Chicago, $6 million; Wayne Gretzky, New York Hangers, $6 million; Mark Messier. Vancouver, $6 million; and Curtis Joseph, Toronto, $5.5 million. 
Second to Jagr among the Penguins is defenseman Kevin Hatcher at $2.9 million, fol­lowed by goaltender Tom Barrasso at $2.72 million. The team's only other million-dollar players are forward Stu Barnes, $1.5 million and defenseman Darius Kasparaitis, $1.1 mil­lion. 





L~$ HAUNT~ft Ho·~.­
' 


We've Moved! 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
-

Yankees' success ignites New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Fans at a City Hall pep rally for the New York Yankees paid tribute to ailing outfielder Darryl Strawberry while boosters in the Bronx -including some who had slept outside all night ­learned whether they'd won a chance to buy World Series tick­ets. 
The overflow crowds in both venues were evidence of the mania surrounding a team whieh won 114 games during the regular season, more than any team in American League history. 
Perhaps sensing the expecta­tions of fans were leaving no room for the vagaries of chance that affect sports, pitcher David Wells warned fans at City llall to be content. 
The San Diego native said his two seasons in New York, which included a rare perfect game this May against the Minnesota Twins, were the best years of his life. 
"No matter what goes on, just be proud of what we did this year," said Wells, who is sched­uled to pitch the Series opener. 
Wells and fellow pitcher David Cone stood smiling on a podium, flinging baseball caps to several thousand fans who shared a strawberry cheesecake that hon­ored Strawberry, the Yankees left fielder who is recovering from colon cancer surgery. 
More anxious was the mood outside Yankee Stadium, where fans from tho well-heeled to the homeless hoped to get a num­bered wristband allowing them to line up for a maximum of two tickets. 
The wristband system was an effort to avoid the chaos that occurred at Yankee Stadium two years ago, when fans trying to buy World Series tickets created a near-riot. 
The supply of 5,000 bands ran out at about 11 a.m., leaving hundreds of fans disappointed after they had spent the night outdoors, sleeping inside 60 cor­rals created by blue police barri­cades. 

1996 "~~ 
Take US-31 expressway to exit 
5 (Niles-Buchanan Rd). Go west 1/4 mile, then left (south) 
OPEN DATES 
SAT. & SUN., SEPT. 19th & 20th SAT. & SlJN., SF:PT. 26th & 27th FRI. thru SlJN., OCT. 2nd-4th FRI. thru SUN., OCT. 9th-II th FRf. thru SLJN., OCT. 16th-18th 
THVR. thru SlJN., OCT. 22nd -25th 
WED. thru SAT., OCT. 28th -31st 
HOURS (Michigan Time) 
FRI. & SAT. in October 7-II P.:\f. 
ALL OTHER NIGHTS 7-10 P.M. 
ADMISSION: $5.00 
Second Admission Same ~ight: $3.00 

For rnore infon11ation: WWW·HA~NT~P..qRq OR call (616) 68'7-~ 1! A ~ 
Bring this ad with you at any time and recieve fifty cents off regular admission (Not good with any other coupon or offer)(Limited to 5 admissions)(Valid for 1998 only) 
Then came another hurdle. At 
12:30 p.m., a public announee­ment rang out -wristband No. 7,427 would be first in linn. 
The crowd roared with enthu­
siasm, followed by panic and 
confusion. Some weren't sure 
whether their number, handed 
out earlier on a random basis, 
would guarantee them tickets. 
Tkket sales would start with 
No. 7.427 and go up to 1 0,000, 
then continue with 5,000 and 
up. 

Bleary-eyed fans draped in blankets dragged lawn chairs behind them as tlwy got ready to go back to tho police pens -this time marked with cardboard signs indicating wristband num­bers. 
"I spent the night here, it was like a pig pen, like being in jail," said Kevin O'Keefe, 21. 
lie left his pen to use the facili­ties at McDonald's because portable toilets outside the stadi­um were overflowing and pnople were starting to use bottles. 
"It was disgusting, really stink­ing," Steven Battiferano said. 
Police guarding the pens required any of tlw 100 people inside each one to leave behind an ID if they left and planned to return. 
O'Kcefo, who was giving up a day's work as a f1oor sander, drove from New Jlaven, Conn., with a dozen l'rinnds. The trip paid off. He got number 7 ,654, which put him toward the front of the line. 
Patty Temple, didn't show up for her supermarket job so she and a friend could drive from Andover, N.J., at 4:30 a.m. Th(~y enjoyed some early-morning suds at a nearby bar bofore hit­ting her pen. "Wo all really bonded. Our pen was the best. Everyone was really eool, thern was no rowdiness." 
The two women hoped to buy two tickets each, including one for Mrs. Temple's husband. "But if we only get two tickets, my husband isn't coming. That's just too bad, we did the waiting," said Mrs. Temple, armed with No. 5,767. 
For those unwilling to camp out, brokers were selling tickets for sky-high prices. 
A firm called Tickets U.S.A. was asking $2,500 for field box scats, $550 for upper level box seats and $315 for blnaeher seats, said a man who answ(m~d the phorw there. At Mr. Tiekd, loge S(~ats eame with a $725 price tag, and bleaelwr scats were going for $500, a broker said. 
Cl N F. M<\ I~ I< I H f AliH 5 

U,7S A.U SHOWS BEFORE 6 PM 
$3.15 SENIORS & CHILDR~ 6:00 A.llULTS STEREO SURROOND SOUND IN AU AUDITORIUMS 
Armageddon PG-13 4:20,7:20 
Blade R 2:40, 3:45, 5:20. 7:35, 8:00, 10:20, 10:35 
Bride of Chucky R 2:30, 5:00, 7:25, 9:50 (no passes) 
Practical Magic PG-13 2:00. 3:00, 4:30, 5:30, 7:10, 7:55, 9:40, 10:25 
Halloween H20 R 2:20, 4:20, 7:00, 9:30 Holy Man PG 1:50, 4:25, 7:00, 9:30 
Ronln R 1:55, 3:30. 4:40, 7:05, 7:30,9:45, 10:10 
Saving Private Ryan R 2:10,3:15, 5:35, 7:45.9:15 Snake Eyes R 2:10, 10:20 What Dreams May PG·13 2:05,2:50, 4:35, 5:25,7:15, 7:55, 9:55, 10:30 
!COAlS n••ts ONlY FO~I D~l IC\~ct I :KO 1/.11! ••NDIV.I ACmiiBli I NO J.\1115 · NO Su'IJII.VI!I 
! -1, • ·" ' ! h ~ 'J'J;: Friday, October 16, 1998
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• VOLLEYBAll

-
Hitters to break for success 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Spoi-rs Wrirer 
Over fall break, the Notre Dame volleyball team will be in full swing, looking to get back on track after their first ever Big East Conference loss last weekend. 
The Fighting Irish head to North Carolina this weekend to square off with Duke and North Carolina. Wednesday, they face ninth-ranked Florida in Gainesville. They will then return home for conference matches against Providence and Boston College. 
"I think winning some matches is critical for us. Anytime we can go out and win, that helps our confidence level," said head coach Debbie Brown. "They are all very big challenges for us. Certainly North Carolina and Florida are both doing very well and are on big win streaks, but they are all a big challenge." 
The Irish are coming off a disappointing stretch last week, in which they lost three of four matches on the road, dropping their record to 6-8 overall and 3-1 in the Big East. They fell to Illinois State, Connecticut, and Fairfield; before coming back to dominate Big East foe St. John's 3-0. 
"Right now, we just have to take it a match at a time and even that is sometimes too much, so a point at a time," said Brown. "If we think too much about the future, we can't really keep the focus on the task at hand." 
The loss to Connecticut ended Notre Dame's 78-match win streak versus conference opponents, which was the sec­ond-longest in NCAA college volleyball history. It was also the first conference loss for with 32 total blocks against Fairfield, before breaking the record with 35 against St. John's. That was nearly dou­ble the previous record of 18 for three-game matches. 
The Irish lead the Big East in hitting in conference matches at .255, and rank second in blocking with 3.5 per game. 
Freshman Kristy Kreher, junior Mary Leffers and senior captain Lindsay Treadwell are second through fourth, respectively, for hitting in Big East in conference matches. Leffers is also fourth in block­ing at 1.36 per game. 
Treadwell, a middle blocker, leads the Irish starters with a hitting percentage of .358, finds herself at the top of the Irish record books in career hitting percentage. Treadwell is also first on this year's team in digs and kills. 
"Our goals are to go out and compete against those teams and come back from a bad weekend," said freshman Marcie Bomhack. 
The Irish concentrated on passing and hitting this week in practice, where they seek to improve the most. 
"We want to have better passing and fewer hitting errors," said Brown. "I think we're still somewhat inconsis­tent in some areas. I think we have people who are capable, but now the goal is consisten­cy." 
The squad begins its road trip against the Duke Blue Devils (6-10) tomorrow. Notre Dame leads the all-time series between the two schools 4-1. 
The Blue Devils, coached by Linda Grensing, rely heavily on junior outside hitter Sarah Peifer and junior middle blocker Jami Ediger. 
Next up will be the North 

season at home, with an 11-0 record. The Tar Heels are currently on a 13-match win streak, the longest in school history. 
Sophomore outside hitter Casey Simpson leads the Tar Heels with a kill average of 
4.24 per game, second in the ACC. North Carolina leads its conference in aces at 2.13 per game. Erin Berg, a senior, is averaging over 13 assists per game and is closing in on the 5,000-career assists mark. 
The Florida Gators will be the last road opponent for Notre Dame until Nov. 14. The Gators are 15-2 overall, and 6-0 in the Southeastern Conference. Head coach Mary Wise has put together a stel­lar 236-25 record in her seven years at Florida, with the teain qualifying for the NCAA semifinals in four of the past six seasons. The Irish fell to the Gators last season in four games. 
Junior opposite player Jenny Manz is a stand-out for Florida, winning the AVCA Division I Player of the Week the first week of the 1998 sea­son. Manz is also a former club teammate of Leffers for the Irish. 
Notre Dame will return home to take on two confer­ence opponents, the Providence Friars and the Boston College Eagles. Notre Dame has never lost a match to either team, although the Eagles are one of the few Big East teams to ever win a sin­gle game over the Irish. The Friars have five starters back from last season, while the Eagles have just one. 
If the Irish can return from break with a few more wins under their belt, they will be on their way back to the top of the Big East conference. 
missed oppor­
from freshmen 
and Angie Meyers. 
totaled nine kills, while six-. oter LeBeau registered three big blocks and seven kills on 16 attempts. 
"She had her arm up and she was spanking everything," Joyce said of LeBeau. "We wert'ln't passing well enough to run the ball to her though." 
As the Belles suffered incon­sistencies throughout the match, the third game was eas­ily claimed by the Knights. 
"I wouldn't say we were lack­adaisical in the third game," Bill said. "We were just getting frustrated." 
The· Belles hope to be calmed down by the time they travel to Olivettonight. 
They have only six more matches left to reach their goal of at least a .500 record. Currently, the Belles stand at 10-12 with a fourth-place rank­ing in the conference. 
After meeting Olivet on Saturday, Saint Mary's will test Hs lqck and ability Saturday against Kalamazoo and Bethel at the SMC Spectacular. 
Kalamazoo is presently rariked third in the conference and sixth in the region. Bethel also poses athreat, holding a spot in the NAIA top 10. 


the Irish under Brown, who is Carolina Tar Heels. Although in her eighth-year as head the Irish beat the Tar Heels coach. last season, Carolina is off to 
One strong area for the Irish a 17-3 start overall, including in the past few matches has a 6-0 mark in the Atlantic been their blocking. They tied Coast Conference. They have a Notre Dame team record been unbeatable so far this 

Einstein~ Smart~ College~ You~ Williamsburg (See the Connection) 
_J"-.r~.._ 

,/__. ~ 
Practical Magic PG-13 
Night at the Roxbury PG-13 [11 :50, 1 :30, 2:30] 4:00, 5:00, 6:45, 
[2:30]5:15, 7:30,9:30 
Williamsburg \ \l,~ Student 

7:30, 9:30, 1 0:00 Bride of Chucky R 
Discount
[12:15, 1:15, 2:20, 3:20]4:40, 5:40, 

eL ~l\1
7:10, 7:50, 9:20, 10:35 Beloved R 

Apartments w;
[12:00, 1:00, 3:30]4:30, 7:00, 8:15, 
(10:00 Fri. & Sat. only) 
-~ 
Rush Hour R 

' -•$50 Security 
[11 :45, 12:45, 2:15, 3:00]4:35 5:35, 7:25. 8:10, 9:40, 10:20 
Deposit
Antz PG 
•1 0 minutes from 
There's Something About Mary R [1:45, 2:45]4:15, 5:10,6:45, [11:55, 2:35]5:10, 7:45,10:15 
•No Application
7:20, 8:45, 9:30 
Campus
Urban Legend R Rounders R[12:10, 2:40]5:20, 8:00, 10:10 
Fee
[1 :30]4:30, 7:00, 9:30 
•Stellar Floor Plans 
Holy Man PG 
Dr. Dolittle PG-13
[11 :40, 2:1 0] 4:45, 7:20, 10:05 [2:30]4:45, 7:15,9:15 
What Dreams May Come PG-13 
Annageddon PG-13[1:20]4:10, 6:50,9:45 [2:00]5:00, 8:00Night at the Roxbury PG-13 Halloween H20 R[12:20, 2:50]5:15, 7:40, 9:50 [2:15]4:50, 7:30,9:30 Blade R 
[12:05, 2:45]5:30, 8:05, 10:30 

{Get Connected) 
Ronin R [2:00]4:50, 7:40, 10:25 One True Thing R 

219-256-0237 
[1 :10], 4:20, 7:05, 9:55 
Now! Students and Seniors $4.oo Anytime 
G:r
Times in [brackets] denote matinees on Saturday & Sunday on 
EQUAL HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY 

-
The Observer/Brat Hogan 

Irish center Ben Simon and the hockey team hope to continue their CHAA success this weekend when they take on the Bulldogs of Ferris State and the Lakers of Lake Superior State. The team carries a 2-0 record in CHAA play. 
continued from page 20 
"If I can skate 12 forwards every night and win, I'm going to skate 12 forwards," Poulin said. 
Sophomore Matt Van Arkel also looks to continue his solid play. lie is one of the mem­bers of the tough and produc­tive third line for the Irish, along with freshman cr.nter Brett Henning and sophomorn wing Jay Kopischke. 
Van Arkel's power-play goal versus the Lakors last Friday night gave the Irish a 3-1 lead late in the second period. Van Arkel earned the goal by doing the things he so consis­tently is able to do -fight through chocks, get to loose pucks and constantly drive to 
the net. · 
Last weekend's triumphs revealed yet another positive in this young season, and that is solid, disciplined team play. 
For one, the Irish played a tight third period versus the Lakers, one in which they had to protect a one-goal lead for the last 17 minutes. They pro­tected that lead mainly by winning faceoffs in their own 
'IF I CAN SKATE 12 FOR­
A Free National Satellite Teleconference Hosted By The University of Notre Dame For Faculty and Staff 
REACHING YOUR 



FINANCIAL GOALS 
TIPS FROM AMERICA'S EXPERTS 
With the growing array of investment options and the recent changes in the tax laws, we can all use an update on personal finances. 
Join best-selling author Jane Bryant Quinn, economist Peter Bernstein, and other top experts for a look at state­of-the-art investment products and strategies. 
Whether you're concerned about saving for retirement, your children's college education or a new home, this program will make financial decision-making easier. 
Date:  October 28, 1998  
Location:  Center for Continuing Education, Room 100  
(Across the street from the Morris Inn)  
Time:  1:45 pm-3:30 pm  

A TIAA-CREF representative will be available to answer questions following the broadcast. Space is available on a first come basis. 


WARDS EVERY NIGHT 
AND WIN, I'M GOING TO 
SKATE 12 FORWARDS.' 
DAVEPOUUN 
HocKEY HEAD CoACH 

end, and by the defensemen and the goaltender never being caught out of position. 
"It was good for us to win a game like that," said Poulin after Friday's tense win. "You have to learn to win different kinds of games." 
The other evidence of good team play came on special teams, especially on the power play. Last weekend, the Irish scored five goals in the two games on the power play by moving the puck well and by taking good shots. 
As a unit, the Irish will only get better, says freshman een­ter David Inman. who scored 
the  first  two  goals  of his  
career last weekend  versus  
Western Michigan.  

"We're getting better every night," said Inman. "We're just starting to gel as a toam." 
The Observer wishes you a wonderful fall break. Play safe!!!! 

... and discover hundreds of intriguing creations handcrafted by skilled artisans. Your purchase helps craftspeople provide food and education for their families . 
TIN THOUSAND 
VIllAGES.
• 


page 18 


Soccer

-
continued from page 20 
to a 2-2 tie last Sunday. but UConn is sure to be fired up for this rivalrv. 
The Huskies are led by fn~sh­man Mary-Frances Monroe, who already has 14 goals and 13 assists on the season. Jen Carlson has scored I 0 goals for the nation's third-ranked offense. Freshman goalkeeper Anne-Elisabeth Esker is also off to a quick start, boasting a 0.67 goals against average in 13 games. 
Notre Dame, on the other hand, enters the game as the nation's top-ranked offense, averaging 4.76 goals per game. Junior Jenny Heft leads the Irish and is third in the country with 17 goals in 13 games. 
Big East offensive player of the week Monica Gerardo had two goals in the Irish's win over Boston College last Friday and followed up that performance with a hat trick against Providence on Sunday. With the five goals, Gerardo passed Cindy Daws to become the Irish's all-time leading scorer with 64 career goals. She is cur­rently 11th in the nation in scoring. 
Sophomore Anne Makinen. perhaps the nation's best mid­fielder, returns this weekend for the Irish. Makinen has six goals and eight assists (20 points) in just five Big East games. 
Men's 
continued from page 20 
East by a total of 21-3. 
One of the biggest problems for the Irish in their midseason slowdown has been their inability to score consistently, especially right out of the gate. 
"Our problem with scoring has been hurting us all sea­son," commented sophomore Dustin Pridmore. "We need to come out from the start and play both halves consistently." 
Before the Irish can push the ball and get the goals, they will have to defend against the powerful Husky attack. Leading Connecticut will be all-American candidates Bobby Rhine and Mauizio Rocha. Backing them with some new blood is freshman midfielder Mansour Ndiaye. Ndiaye is coming off an impressive week in which he was selected as the Big East co-rookie of the week, 
The strength in Connecticut's attack is what the Irish are looking to play off of to gain the momentum to win the game. 
"They're an offensive-mind­ed team," said Pridmore. "Our plan is to play them the way we've been playing all other teams this year. We need to keep our defensive shape, and then attack." 
Walton and forwards Ryan Cox and Scott Wells will be the 
"She's an awesome player," said Grubb. "Anytime she is out there. she brings a spark to the team." 
The Irish defense is also tough. Grubb leads an experi­fmced group that is fifth in the nation in team defense with a 
0.54 goals per game average. 
Sophomore Kelly Lindsay earned Big East defensive play­er of the week honors for her outstanding play on the back line. She also added a goal over the weekend. 
LaKeysia Beene has been steady in goal for the Irish and leads the conference with a 
0.35 goals against average. Beene and freshman Elizabeth Wagner have combined for 10 shutouts. 
Since losing its only game of the season at North Carolina, Notre Dame has rolled over its last eight opponents. outscoring them by a combined 38-1. 
The Irish have grown up a lot since the Carolina pitfall and are poised and ready for a win on the road against Connecticut. 
The Irish will take on last year's Big East offensive player of the year and rookie of the year Kelly Smith and the rest of the Seton Hall Pirates on Sunday, before closing out a six-game road trip with games at Michigan on Friday, Oct. 23, and at St. John's on Sunday, Oct. 25. The four games over the fall break will all be impor­tant as the Irish have just two regular season games left fol­lowing the road trip. 
key to catching the Husky defense off-guard and out of reach. The combination of Walton and Cox have posed the biggest threat all season, as the two have combined for 38 of the team's 65 points. 
Supporting the forward cast will be midfielders Ben Bocklage, Andrew Aris, Matt McNew and team co-captain Matt Johnson. 
Falling back, the Huskies will face a strong defense anchored by goaltender Greg Velho. Velho has made 60 saves thus far, averaging five per game and 6.3 in Big East play. 
The Irish will need all the help they can get facing the No. 1 team in the nation. Notre Dame, having fallen out of the top 25 after last weekend's loss at Santa Clara, will not have history on their side against Connecticut. 
Notre Dame has only posted a 1-7 record against the top team in the nation. The only win came in 1981 at home as the Irish beat St. Louis. 
"We have to place a lot of emphasis on this game. If we come out and play hard, we'll have the confidence to finish off the season and carry us into the Big East tournament and even NCAAs," said Pridmore. 
Luck is on the side of the 
Irish. The tables are set. Now 
the Irish are left to play and 
unseat the top-ranked team. 
Friday, October 16, 1998
The Observer· SPORTS 
.SWIMMING 



Irish splash into exciting break 
By WES RICHARDSON Spom Writer 

The women's swim team travels today to take on Big East rival Miami, then will remain in Florida for a week of intense training. 
Both the men's and women's teams will return Friday to Notre Dame to host Air Force and Army. 
The meet at Miami should provide a formidable chal­lenge, according to women's head coach Bailey Weathers. The Hurricanes beat Florida State and Florida Atlantic on Saturday. 
Despite having to travel and compete on the same day, the Irish remain optimistic. 
"I think we have a really good chance [to beat Miami] ·because we have such a good team this year," senior Brittany Kline said. "We thought it was going to be tough last year, but we came out strong and beat them.~ 
Hurricanes traditionally have some of the best divers in the NCAA. Junior Gina Ketelhorn, sophomores Jessica Johnstone and Karly Richards, and freshman Heather Mattingly will fight to keep Miami from sweeping the diving events. 
Mia,mi also boasts powerful spdl)~HS. The Hurricanes have five freshmen and one junior with best times under 25 seconds in the 50-yard freestyle. Three freshmen also swim the 100-yard freestyle in 52 seconds or better. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Men's Basketball Tryouts -Tryouts will be Oct. 27 at 
7:30 a.m. following fall break. Tryouts will be held in the Joyce Center in the main arena. 
Challenge U Fitness ­Fitness classes are half price after break. Stop by the RecSports office in the RSRC to register. Look for the com­plete. schedule on the RecSports web page. 
Yoga -A new yoga class will be held on Mondays, Oct. 25 -Dec. 7, from 7-8:15 p.m. in the RSRC. Registration began Wednesday at the RSRC. Space is limited. 
Tai Chi -Registration began Wednesday at the RSRC. Classes will take place on Wednesdays, Oct. 26 -Dec. 7, from 5:30-6:20 p.m. in the RSRC. Space is limited. 
Knockout Workout Round 2 registration began Wednesday at the RSRC. The class will be held on T/Th, Oct. 27 -Dec. 8, 6:45-8 p.m., in the Joyce Center boxing room. Space is limited. 
Friday O~t. 16tL 
TS. Conn
...,.4 
.....r4•••• 

7:3o...AND_ 
Sunday Oct. 18tL Ts. Seton HaD l:Oop... 
All students, faculty and staff free!!! 
Robyn AngUckis has the fastest times in these two events for Miami. The Irish will look to sophomore Carrie Nixon for wins in the sprints. 
"Carrie needs to be ready to crush this girl. If Carrie can beat her, we can win the meet," Weathers said. 
Following today's meet, the Irish women check in at Ft. Lauderdale where they will spend a week training at the International Swimming Hall ofFamepool. 
With two of the most impor­tant training weeks behind them, the Irish women plan to keep the momentum going during the training camp and prepare for upcoming meets, according to Weathers. 
"This has been an interest· ing month. We've never had an October with this many meets," Weathers said. 
"Last year was really good because tt.e training camp helped us get in good shape, and it also helped us grow closer as a team," Kline said. 
Next Friday's meet against Air Force and Army should provide two easy wins for the women and a challenge for the men, according to Weathers and men's assistant coach Jonathan Jennings. 
'''We're looking for every­bo~~tostep it up a notch. The !)lde~ guy~ will set the tone for the younger guys and give them guidance," Jennings said. 

"It's. a big meet because even though we beat them (Air Force) pretty soundly on 


Environmental Law Society Notre Dame Law School 
The Environmental Law Society & the Federalist 
Society are proud to welcome Gordon K. Durnil to the Notre Dame Law School on Wednesday, October 28, 1998, at 12:15 p.m. in the Courtroom. 
Mr. Durnil served as United States Chairman of the 
International Joint Commission for four and one­half years. As Chairman, he achieved international recognition for leadership in shared water 
resources. Mr. Durnil has also served as the Indiana Republican State Chairman, and on the Executive Committee of the Republican National Committee. Mr. Durnil is the author of The Making of a Conservative Environmentalist and Is America Beyond Reform? The title of his presentation is "Reflections of a Conservative Environmentalist." Mr. Durnil's books will be available for sale at the event and he will be happy to sign a copy. This presentation is also possible due to the support of the Law School. 
the scoreboard last year, there were a lot of close races," senior co-captain Steele Whowell said. "They're going to come at us pretty hard because we beat them by so much last year." 
The Irish will be at an immediate disadvantage due the lack of a diver. An injury sustained by junior Herb Huesman will keep him from diving. Army and Air Force could each score 32 points against the Irish if they onter three divers in the meet. 
There is a good chance, however, that the men could finish the meet with two victo­ries, according to Jennings. 
"We've got a shot at one or both of these teams without a diver if we step up and race like we're capable of doing." he said. "Every point we can get counts. It may come down to the fifth place guy scoring one point." 
Army's greatest strength lies in junior Joe Novak and sophomore Mark Tricano. Novak swam an NCAA Championship consideration time last season in the 50 and 100-yard freestyle events, while Tricano set three top-10 team marks in the distance freestyle events, and one in the 200 backstroke. 
Separate coaches are in charge of the Air Force men's and women's teams for the first time in the academy's history. The coaches believe the extra attention paid to each athlete will benefit the teams. 

~ 
~ ..... 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
~------~--------------------------------------------------------------------------~-~------~-­
page 19 YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
WHAT'S WITH THE KIDDIE 
DRESS? 
DILBERT 
who could furthl'r your career. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make some very favorabi<' changes. Use your wil and charm In enhance your reputation. Social gath erings will be lo your advanlag.· Your precise altitude will attract olh ers.OOO 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Tal-.•· heed of the advice that you've bet•n given. You will be experiencing changes in your home environnlenl Acceptance will be thl' key to gl'ttin~ through a period of uncertainty 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
1 

Investments can bt• lucrative, but th,.,. 
must also b(• conservative. Your prt' 
fessional goals can be achieved 11 
you're willing 10 pul in the time and 
effort that will be required 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): 
You must work al getting ahead '" 
your chosen industry. You will haw 
llw fortitude lo g<'t invoh•ed in com 
petitive sports ,md self·mlprovemenl 
proJects. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 191: 
Sudden good fortune will be yours 11 
you're willing to lake a chance. Don'l 
overspend on luxury items or on 
entertainment. You will havl' th• 
opportunity to lake care of an eldt•r'. 
personal papers 00000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 181 
Your mate may overreact to your pt•r· 
sonal situation You will have to 1•·· 
mort' affectionate with lum or her 11 
you wish to keep th" insecure lowr 
000 

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): y,,u 
will have the ability to encourage col· 
leagues. Your creative approach to hi< 
will be inspiring lo others. Your per· 
sonal partner may get angry if )'''" 
have neglect<'d hun or her 000 
BILL AMEND oH? FoR ANDY, HAVE
STtLL, THE~ IT'S AMAZtN6 HoW oNE ltT· 
...1 STARl!RS, YOU SEEN
EXPERIENCE. 
A NEW WAY
hLE MtSTAKE CAN BE So 
1'o HAVE fuN THE SIZE oF
HAS TAUGHTi EXPENSIVE. nitS DRESS 
..-/ Wtnt DAD. THE BACK-To­
ME A FEW
JcoST ME FouR NIGHTS' 
SCHool oUTFITS
THtN6S.
" PAY, PLUS I HAD To SPEND 
~ A WHoLE TWo HouRS Al'oLO­~ GtZtNG To KATtE'S MoM FOR ll FALL1N6 
MASLEEP.' nu 
• 'G <\8 


State? 19 Kid's phrase of request 20 Chang's 
Siamese twin 
21 Itch 22 Full moon color 24Commedia dell'-­25 Rapper who co-starred tn "New Jack City" 

.. 
®
.. 
E 
,.. 
.. 
l5 
..0 
E 
0 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
8 R A CEll S I Sl SCAM A E R 0 S N 0 T E H A L E ONTOPOFTHEWOR LD 8A I L.PATE.AR I A.







ATE.AT.ELVN
8ASEHIT ICY.LIU 
0~ N 0 S I T N I L
.~T­
POD.CTS STREAMS S W E L L S Gto'~'E.M A T .TREE.TAV I.UPTO T I P 0 F T H E I C E 8 E R G 
I M I Nl H 0 L ElL E R 0 I NENE OUST I RENE 
BECAUSE WHY? I NE.EO A SEMI­PLAUSIBLE REASON. 
51 "--~is me!" 

FRIDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1998 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Tim Robbins, Suzanne Somers, Angela Lansbury, Eugene O'Neill 
Happy Birthday: This will be a year of great progress for you if you follow through on all the ideas that you want to implement. You will have the drive, the determination and the wherewithal to make things hap­pen if you just stick to your set goals and refuse to be tempted to waste time pursuing other people's endeav­ors. It's time to put yourself first. Your numbers: 6, 14, 23, 32, 36,41 
ARIES (March 21·April 19): Get down to business and get yourself into shape. Involvement with chil~ dren will keep you hopping. Go after your drca(l1s. Use your tniliative to get the ball rolling. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your 

ability to do well professionally is 
quite evident. Spend time working on 
those hobbies that you enjoy so much. 
The people you live with will be hard 
lo understand today. 00000 GEMINI (May 2l·)une 20): Talk 
ouR DAUGHTER 
,_.-LJ, / IS BUYING?! 

to friends about your current situa· lion. Valuable advice will be avail· able. Take a long. hard look al your­self and make the necessary and applicable alterations. 00 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Trav· eling about will be very hectic for you today. Elders may need to lean on you for assistance. It is always best to avoid confrontations with relatives. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will
SCOTT ADAMS 

dazzle others with your colorful sto­
ries. You love the limelight, and the chance to capture new friends and lovers will be yours. Your confidence will enable you to influence those 
Birthday Baby: You were born with what it takes lobe great Don' I let your
BECI\U5E 1 lazy side hold you back from accomplishing all that you're capable of You arc· a wanderer, always looking for something different You wanl to try new thm~­
14A.TE. You. 
in search of fame and fortune. 

Looking 

for a
ACROSS 2& Le Carre 
character 54 Glitzy sign 127, to3 George 55 Doc from the 5 Virgule 29 Methodology Old Line State? 

10 St. Nick 32 Estate papers 58 Cartoonist AIaccessory 

good time?? 
33 Gunk 59 Chorus girls? 

14 The top 15 • Remember the 
34 Champagne 60 The first: Abbr. Tony of golf 

---!" &1 Fashion's 3& --vera
1& "Ars Amatoria" Klensch poet &2 1956 Four Lads 
37 Middays 


Join the 
11 Surgical site in 38 Money to tide hit"---Much!" the Beaver one over &3 It's just for 
openers 


Observer 
DOWN 
1 Supergarb 2"--the rooftop ..." 


staff.
(Christmas lyric) 3 Arctic Ocean sighting 4 Phone line 


Reporters
abbr. 5 ---·pants (wise guy) 
39lt's west of N.C. 40 Just 41 "What ---I 
do?" 42 Nielsen stats 44 Comic Charles 
Nelson-­45 Unpleasant task 4& Hospital unit 47 Declarer 50 Swiss river 
49 Kin of "Uh-oh!" 41 Goddess of 37 Rural 50 Envelope abbr. 

and 
agriculture 51 Alert 43 Suffix with 52 Leave off elephant 53 Periphery 44 Least cooked 
56 "Strange Magic" 4& "Yippee!" 
rock band 


photographers
57 1988 Dennis 48 ·--piccata Quaid remake 47 Suffix with utter 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 


wanted.
are available by touch-tone phone· 
1·900-420·5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sun<:!ay crosswords from the last 50 years: 1 -888-7-ACROSS. 
& Jessica of "Frances" 1 Right-hand person a-··cone 9 Decorated officers 
10 Driver's license in the Gem State? 
11 Russian "John" 12 Engine knock 13 Actress 
McClurg 10 Fishing gear 23-~ room 

Pumpkin PaintingParty 
Paint a FREE pumpkin for your room or hall! FREE food~ drinks~ and bands for entertainment. 
24 Sound system in the Keystone State? 
25 Humor not lor dummies 2& Quite a hit 21 Distance runner 28 Actress Massey 29 Chlorinated waters 30 1988 Olympics site 31 Inconsequential 33 Pagoda sounds 35 "Handy" man 





• The Saint Mary's College Volleyball team ended its three­game winning streak.






PORTS 
p.16 
THE
0 

The ObseNer/Bret Hogan Irish mid-fielder Anne Makinen attempts to pass the ball in a recent game. Makinen and the Irish women's soccer team take on the Huskies of UConn this afternoon at home . 
Friday, October 16, 1998 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 

Irish seek revenge against no. 4 UConn 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sporrs Ediror 
The true sign of a champi­onship caliber team is the abili­ty to win the big game. 
The second-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team will be faced that challenge this afternoon when they take on the fourth-ranked Conneetieut Huskies in Hartford. 
"We're happy with where we are right now," junior co-cap­tain Jen Grubb said. "But this will be one of our biggest tests so far this season." 
Both teams have a lot at stake heading into the show­down. The Irish are out to avenge last year's 2-1 loss in the NCAA semifinals and Both teams are undefeated in Big East so far this season. The 

• Packers lose second straight division matchup to Lions 27­20. 
p.12 

Irish an~ a pPrfect 7-0. while UConn boasts an equally impeccable (>-0 confen~nce record. The Irish hold a 6-2 edge in the all-time series. 
"This is a big game for us," sophomore Meotis Erikson said. "The team is really starting to come together and we're play­ing well." 
Notre Dame defeated UConn 1-0 last year at Alumni Field and dominated the Huskies several weeks lawr en route to a 6-1 victory and third-straight 13ig East Championship. 
UConn, however, will be a formidable opponent for the Irish. 
Maryland snapped Conneetieut's 12-game win streak by playing the lluskies 
see SOCCER I page 18 
• HOCKEY 

Icemen to play first CCHA away games 
By TED BASSANl 
Sports Writer 

After beginning conference play with consecutive wins for the first time in recent memory, the Irish will look to solidify their place atop the CCHA when they take on the Ferris State Bulldogs and the Lake Superior State Lakers on the road this weekend. 
On Friday, the Irish travel to Big Rapids, Mich .. to play Ferris State for the first time this season. 
Saturday, the Irish will rematch Lake Superior, this time in Sault Ste. Marie. Last weekend's matchup against the Lakers was a typical CCllA bat­tle, a high-intensity game with a lot of physical play. 
With the 4-2 win last Friday night at the Joyce Center, Notre Dame ended an eight-game winless streak against the Lakers. The last time the Irish won in Sault Ste. Marie was in November of 1993. 
Last season was one in which the Irish made great strides towards establishing them­selves as a power in the CCI-lA. The greatest stride was the ability to win on the road against quality opponents. 
In the CCIIA alone last sea­

.. 
son, the Irish tallied eight wins on the road. an impressive number for a team who fin­ished the season below .500. 
Already this season, the Irish have won a game on the road versus the [now] 12th-ranked Badgers of Wisconsin. 
That win plus two CCHA vic­tories jumped the 3-0 Irish to an 11th-place ranking in the USA Today/American Hockey Magazine Poll. 
Last year's season series between the Irish and Ferris State concluded with a win, a loss, and a tie for each team. The first game, held at the Joyce Center. saw the Irish tie the score late in the third peri­od to salvage a disappointing 5­5 tie. 
The following night in Big Rapids, the Irish wasted fresh­man Chad Chipchase's first career hat trick in a 4-3 loss to the Bulldogs. The series finale, however, saw the Irish wax the Bulldogs 7-1 on home ice. 
The best weapon the Irish unleashed on their unsuspect­ing victims last weekend {and the weekend before in Wisconsin) was a balanced scoring attack, namely the team's third and fourth lines. 
In fact, the first-seven goals of the season for the Irish were scored by six different players, including three from Notre Dame's third and fourth lines alone. 
"We're a deep team," said Irish assistant coach Andy Slaggert. "We have the kind of team where different guys can score every night." 
In reference to his team's bal­anced production so far, head coach Dave Poulin says he enjoys the luxury of having four lines capable of scoring. 
see HOCKEY/ page 17 
• MEN'S SOCCER 


Walton, team look to kick past charging Huskies 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Assistant Editor 
.Thkis an Irish team strug­gling in Big East conferenc¢ play this season, posting an unimpressive 2-2·2 mark.· But this is also a team with the chance to begin its rmal stretch of games, coincidentally all Big East games. with the greatest of wins. 
"We feel we can beat this team," said Shane Walton. The freshman forward has been the biggest surprise of the season for Notre Dame, leading the team with nine goals and 23 points. 
"We know that there isn't anyoM that can really stop us," he said. 
St 

. . .. . .• . . The ObseNer/Bre! Hogan Sh;;me Walton · · the Irish men's soccer team take on the top-ranked UConnHuskiestonightat Notre Dame. 
at Duke Women's Swimming vsArmy, Tmorrow, 7 p.m. at Miami (6 October 24, 1:30 p.m. ~ ~ Today, 6 p.m. 

SPORTS 
at Ferris State 

at Connecticut ~ Friday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 
·.'.< 

Friday, 3 p.m. 
~ 
Cross Country 
SMC Volleyball vs. Connecticut at Central Collegiates 
at Calvin College 

Sf
~

GLANCE 

Friday, 7:30p.m. Today, 4:15 p.m. 
~ f!J Today, 7 p.m. 



