
• Lt. Gov. Joe Kernan roast­
• This is the last regular issue of The Observer until Aug. 25. The 
• ND baseball loses to ed by friends in Joyce Center. 
Michigan State, 4-1.
senior week and freshman orientation issues will be available on 
p.36
p. 4 
May 15, and Aug. 22, respectively. Have a safe and happy summer. 


Wednesday, April29, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 135 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
WRC abortion pamphlets spark investigation 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Senior StafTWriter 
The Office of Student Activities is inves­tigating a recent allegation that the Women's Resource Center is providing information about abortion to its patrons. ,' ! In a letter dated April 24 and sent to ) this year's and next year's officers of the 1 center, director of Student Activities Joe 
Cassidy indicated that the allegations raise questions of whether the center should have its status as a recognized group renewed for next year. 
"We have received information ffrom students and staffl alleging that the Women's Hesource Center is providing information about the availability of abor­tion services," Cassidy's letter said. 
Noting that du Lac prohibits student organizations and their members from encouraging or participating in activities contrary to the moral teachings of the Catholic Church, Cassidy said he has begun to examine the center and its rela­tionship to the Church's teachings. 
"I feel that it is necessary for me to gather information about the [WRC] -in particular about reports that WRC may be providing information about abortion services -in order to make a determina­tion regardin·g whether the [WRC] can retain its status as a recognized group," his letter said. 
As part of the investigation, Cassidy indicated two steps that he would take. According to the letter, Cassidy has asked Ann Firth, assistant to the vice president of Student Affairs, and Sylvia Dillon, assistant director of Campus Ministry, to assist him. 
Cassidy also asked the current officers of the WRC to meet with him individually Thursday afternoon, a request that the officers say "doesn't seem right." 
According to Ray Mohrman, co-chair of the WRC, Cassidy said his reason for holding separate meetings with each officer was that, if only a group meeting were held, it would result in only one person talking, and Cassidy would not be able to hear from the other officers. 
Mohrman and co-chair Kelly McMahon said Cassidy's plan does not fit with the purpose of the investigation. 
"What's being questioned isn't our personal opinions. We're being investigated as a group," Mohrman said. "We have one mis­sion, one goal, one statement, and [Cassidy] can review that by 
'IFE:a IT IS IMPOR­
TANT FOR ME TO GATHER INFORMATION ABOliT THE ( WRC] ••• IN ORDER TO MAKE A DETERMINATION 

REGARDING WHETIIER THE (WRC] CAN RETAIN ITS STATIJS AS A RECOGNIZED GROUP.' 
JOE CASSIDY DIRECTOR OF STUDENT ACTMT/ES 
speaking to us as a group." Cassidy could not be reached for com­ment late last night. 
Mohrman said that the officers of the WRC went•to the Student Activities office Monday to request that they meet as a 
• f~OTHE DAME HOLOCAUST PROJECT 
A call for reconciliation 
Hoeckman advocates 'effective love' between Christians and Jews regarding the Holocaust 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
Haising his voice passionately for his work and the topic at hand, Father Remi Hoeckman, secretary of the Holy See's Committee for Heligious Relations with the Jews, delivered the final formal address of the Holocaust confer­ence last night. 
Boeckman, who was the primary auihor of the recent Vatican document on the Church's role in the Holocaust, emphasized the need for "reconciliation and effective love" between Christians and Jews. 
"This is the time to let memory, healed of its wounds, become our teacher and the teacher of our children so that evil may never triumph over good as it did for millions of children of Judaism," lloeckman said. 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, president emeri­tus of the University, introduced Hoeckman and his credentials. Hesburgh and Hoeckman have worked closely together in the past 30 years at an institute for interfaith dialogue opened by the Vatican in Jerusalem. Ilesburgh empha­sized that although the audience may disagree 
with aspects of the recent Vatican document,
t 
i they must remember that Boeckman's editors had the final say. 
r 
l "There is nothing at all wrong or questionable about his approach to this problem. I think he is totally on the side of angels," said Hesburgh. "Even in its edited form, his document reads like something you never would have seen 15 or 20 years ago. With Hemi, his heart is with this cause fully, deeply and with great wisdom." After taking the microphone, Boeckman addressed the importance of an interfaith dia­logue that emphasizes the religious aspects, which he fears are often overlooked. ''I'm a man of faith who does believe in inter­
• 
faith encounter, but I have a problem with ambiguous use of these words," Boeckman
t 
said. "I may have it all wrong, but to me inter­faith encounter means to meet with another who is not like me in the place where souls meet. It means to meet with another who is not
f 
! 
like me but who is nonetheless in the image of God."
' 
see H 0 ECKMANI page 4 

group with Cassidy, Firth, and Dillon, and that Cassidy yesterday denied the request. 
Mohrman also said that requests to 
see WRC I page 4 

Policy leaves 
smokers out 
in the cold 
Editor's note: This is the second in a two­part series examining the extent of tobacco use on campus and its effect on student life .. 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Editor 
Notre Dame does not allow smoking in the hallways and public areas of its resid~nce halls. 
"Long-standing, irrefutable proof demon­
strates smoking is harmful to the health of smokers. In addition, recent reports from the Surgeon General indi­cate that expo­sure to second­

hand smoke can be a serious health hazard for non­smokers," according to page 105 of du Lac, the guide to student life. · 
Outside of the statement of University pol­icy that prohibits tobacco use "in all build­ings, stadiums and vehicles owned, leased or operated by the University of Notre Dame," some rectors offer a variety of dif­ferent reasons for requiring that students who wish to smoke go out into the cold. 
But the most common reason is the smell of burning tobacco. 
"It stinks," said Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall. Scully has instituted a policy in his dorm that is more severe than that in most dorms. 
"People can smoke in only one place around [Keenan] and that is out in front," he said. "The smoke used to drift in [the back rooms] and students would complain about the smell. So we moved it to the front. Smokers are filthy though. They don't use the ashtrays and the smoke has started blowing into front rooms too." 
Morrissey Manor rector Father Bill Seetch offered another reason for disallowing smoking in his dorm. 
"There is really no ventilation in [Morrissey]," he said. "Smoking is a definite fire hazard, so I am always keeping an eye 
see TOBACCO/ page 4 


page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 


The photo of my friend 
I still carry the picture of her every day in 
my wallet. 
It's not a flattering 
image at all; the hair that 
falls several inches past 
her shoulders is curly and 
uncombed, and her 
Grateful Dead t-shirt is 
soaked with sweat. She 
isn't wearing makeup, 
but then again, she 
rarely ever did. 
I have not talked to 
her in almost four 
years. Although I would recognize her any­
where, I find it hard to believe that she would 
know me. 
After all, four years is a long time, especial­
ly during college. My four years at Saint 
Mary's have definitely changed who I am. 
For better or for worse, I am no longer the 
sweaty, unkempt girl in the t-shirt, who 
appears on that Saint Mary's I.D. photo in my 
wallet. The curly long locks have been 
exchanged for a business world bob, and it is 
a rare occasion that I pull my hippie rags out 
from the depths of my closet. 
More significant than the differences evi­
dent in the photo are the internal variations 
between me and the girl. 
She had vague impressions of feminism: I 
have incorporated its elements into a life­
guiding philosophy. 
She assumed that she would focus on her 
schoolwork. I look at the pile of Observers by 
my bedside, think about the countless nights 
spent in the office, and know that schoolwork 
comes in all shapes and sizes. 
She assumed her best friends at Saint 
Mary's would be students. I think about no 
longer being able to plant myself in my pro­
fessors' offices for hours at a time, and it 
almost brings me to tears. 
She believed that her parents would remain 
her primary adult consorts. I recall the 
unconditional love and support I received 
from the three women I worked for in 
Student Activities, and I wonder where I 
would be without them. · 
She never dreamed of attaining a graduate 
degree. I plan to start looking into master's 
programs within the next few months. 
None of us can anticipate the events and 
impact of our college years, or any of our 
years for that matter. 
The next picture of myself that will be car­
ried in my wallet everyday will most likely be 
the one taken for my employment identifica­
tion, when I begin working on June 8. 
What will the life occurrences be during the 
next four years that I can't possibly antici­
pate? 
Unexpected friendships? A promotion or 
two? A new mentor? Perhaps a wedding? A 
complete re-location? 
As a high school graduate, I incorrectly 
lived life with the attitude that I knew every­
thing. As a soon-to-be college graduate, I 
lead life with the insight that I know very lit­
tle. 
Except that I have one of the best college 
educations available under my belt, and 
some of the best people who walk the planet, 
in my life. 
Oh, and one of the most humorous student 
I.D. pictures ever taken. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Brad Prendergast  Michelle Barton  
Christine Kraly  Graphics  
Alex Orr  Jon King  
Sports.  Production  
Brian Kessler  Dan Cichalski  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Ed Llull  Mike Boland  
Spencer Stefko  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc rcscrved. 
Wednesday, April29, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 

Campus Briefs 


HHPA will head up University's construction 
Hardy Holzman Pfeiffer Associates, one of the nation's foremost architec­tural firms, has been selected to design the Marie DeBartolo Performing Arts Complex at Notre Dame. Housing a 1,200-seat auditori­um and separate centers for the musical and dramatic arts, the 130,000-square-foot complex will be built on the south side of the Notre Dame campus at a cost of about $35 million. Ground is expected to be broken next year. The Marie DeBartolo Performing Arts Complex is named in memory of the wife of the late Edward DeBartolo, a 1932 Notre Dame alumnus. DeBartolo's $33 million gift to Notre Dame in 1989 is the largest in the University's history and previously has under­written construction of DeBartolo Hall, one of the most technologically advanced learning centers in higher education, and the development of the DeBartolo Quadrangle. The per­forming arts complex will anchor the south end of DeBartolo Quad, joining De Bartolo Hall, the College of Business Administration complex and the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Pfeiffer will serve as the partner-in-charge of the Notre Dame project. 
Westfall is appointed chair and prof at NO 
Carroll William Westfall, a profes­sor of architectural history in the School of Architecture at the University of Virginia, has been appointed Edward Frederick Sorin Professor and chair of the School of Architecture at the University of Notre Dame, according to Nathan Hatch, Notre Dame's provost. Westfall's appointment is effective July 1. Westfall succeeds Thomas Gordon Smith, who will step down after nine years as chair. Under Smith's leadership, the School of Architecture earned an international reputation in the new classicism and was christened by the New York Times as "the Athens of the new movement." Smith will remain on the Notre Dame faculty as professor of architecture. Both widely published and an award-winning teacher, Westfall is a leading historian of clas­sicism in architecture and of the architecture of cities, where his work ranges from the doomed Roman metropolis of Pompeii to the neigh­borhoods and boulevards of contem­porary Chicago. At Notre Dame, he 
will  become  the  School  of  
Architecture's  first  endowed  
chair holder.  

Mathematics conference will honor O'Meara 
The department of mathematics will host a conference honoring Timothy O'Meara, the University's provost emeritus and Kenna professor of mathematics, Saturday through Monday in the Center for Continuing Education. The conference will cover the primary areas of O'Meara's research and writ­ing in tnathematics. Principal speakers at the conference will be the California Institute of Technology's Michael Aschbacher, the architect of the classi­fication of the finite simple groups, a landmark achievement in mathemat­ics; the University of Regensburg's Manfred Knabusch, a German math­ematician who was a visiting professor at Notre Dame in the 1960s; T.V. Lam of the University of California at Berkeley; Gregory Margalis of Yale University; the University of Michigan's Gopal Prasad, a former member of the TATA Research Institute in Bombay, India; and the Master University's Carl Riehm, an early student of O'Meara's at Princeton University. 

University publishes book on business ethics 
The inaugural volume of the John W. Houck Notre Dame Series in Business Ethics, "The Moral Imagination: How Literature and Films Can Stimulate Ethical Reflection in the Business World," has been published by the University of Notre Dame Press. The book, edited by Father Oliver Williams, director of the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business, includes essays by 13 authors, including Notre Dame faculty members Thomas Shaffer and Teresa Godwin Phelps of the Law School; Charles Van Doran of the Institute for Philosophic~al Research; and Michael Medved, chief film critic for the New York Post. According to Williams, the business world is sometimes unfairly caricatured as a place where everyone knows the price of everything and appreciates the value of nothing. "The essays gathered in the volume show how, through literature, art, and film, society might learn to develop a sense of moral imagination," he said. Among the films and novels discussed in the essays include "The Dead Poets' Society," "Billy Budd," "To Kill a Mockingbird," "The· Brothers Karamazov," "Other People's Money," and "Mr. Holland's Opus." 
Mela receives awards for advertising research 
Carl Mela, assistant professor of marketing at Notre Dame,•has received two international awards for his research on the effects· of promotions and advertising on consumers. A paper by Mela, titled "The Long Term Impact of Promotions and Advertising on Consumer Brand Choice" and co­authored with Sunil Gupta and Donald Lehmann of Columbia University, received the Marketing Science Institute's best paper award. The insti­tute confers the award annually to the publication in its paper series that "has the most enduring value to corporate executives" and the greatest "potentjal impact on MSI companies and potential impact on subsequent academic work." The award was presented last week in Boston at MSI's board of trustees meet­ing. Mela and his colleagues also have garnered the Paul E. Green Award for a different version of the article pub-. lished in one ·or the field's leading jour­nals, the Journal of Marketing Research. The award, sponsored by the American Marketing Association, is presented annually to the JMR article published in the last calendar year that "shows or demonstrates the most potential to contribute significantly to the practice of marketing research and research in marketing." 
Prof to receive honorary degree for German studies 
One of Europe's oldest and most prestigious universities will present an honorary doctor of laws degree to Donald Kommers, the Joseph and Elizabeth Robbie Professor of Government and International Studies and profes­sor of law at Notre Dame. The 
L-----L-""' University of Donald Heidelberg in Kommers Germany will honor Kommers on July 24 for his research and writing on German con­stitutional law, and in particular his comparative analysis of the work of Germany's Federal Constitutional Court and the U.S. Supreme Court. Founded in 1386, Heidelberg is the oldest uni­versity in Germany and among the old­est in Europe. The university's law fac-­ulty, which recommended Kommers for an honorary degree, is rated first in the country. A member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1963, Kommers holds a joint appointment in government and the Notre Dame Law School and is a fellow in the Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
,-"w•-·f"', ,.,....,,.,J ~  •·.•-••••••·  H  L  
' Wedn~sda~ j Thursday  ~  64 45 64 48  
Friday  ~  65 45  


64 45 72 45 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 29. 
60S Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 80s ~ 
50s --.---.--sos-
FRONTS: 
•• ..• . 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWealher. Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 

q,~,QY.QQ(f ~ ~ 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~rrles S~~~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
VIS Assocl819d Press Graph/CSNet 
Atlanta  66  58  Dallas  72  53  Lincoln  63  38  
Baltimore  72  54  Denver  68  44  Miami  82  74  
Boston  72  52  Fargo  76  48  New York  74  54  
Chicago  65  51  Houston  76  56  Orlando  84  - 68  
Columbus  68  56  Jackson  70  56  Seattle  78  52  

............~~..~....~.....a~........~..~......~..........~..-.~_.-.....u~~~=~:~..~=----~~~-~--------~--~--·-----­
• 
a e 3 

' 
ens 

Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
F E M A L E' L E A D E R S H I P I N G 0 V E R N M E N T . 
Former Irish president remains influential leader 
By MARGARET KENSINGER She was the first News Writer national leader to rec­ognize the problems in It is during this time, the end of the school year, in Somalia in 1993 and to which leaders permeate campuses around the shake hands with Gerry world. Ranging from commencement speakers to Adams, a Northern honorary degree n~cipients, these groups of people Irishman often associat­overrun campuses with musings and advice for the ed with controversial adults of tomorrow. politics. She was also an 
Experienced leaders come and go, preaching wis­active advocate for dom to the youth of the future. One such leader, who changing social policy has overcome harsh odds to present a simple mes­in Ireland. sage of active humanitarianism and belief in oneself, In an interview with is Mary Robinson. Hobinson, she stated 
Mary Robinson ran for the presidency of Ireland in that her job was "to 1990. This presidency was a figurehead position help the small. the mar­reserved mainly for retirees of the Fianna Fail. the ginalized, the vulnera­central party of Ireland. This position was an inac­ble, by being interested tive, non-legislative position, but Robinson sought to in what they are doing change all that. ... by being present, by 
Robinson campaigned for the presidency by travel­valuing them." ing throughout Ireland. In order to be an effective Robinson ran on a cam­leader, Robinson felt that she needed to be in touch paign of fortitude and individual concern. Every per­both Ireland and the world. She worked outside of 
_ with the people she would be leading. Her leader­son was given a voice when she was elected. an accepted role to do what she believed was right. ship was foretold by her personal involvement in the She has not only fought for broad world issues, but Robinson made silent voices heard in her active everyday lives of the voters, their concerns. their also for those of the Irish. As stated in the April 15, pursuit of change. She never sacrificed her integri­problems and their needs. 1996 issue of The Nation, "Robinson fought for gen­ty. She sought personal interaction with those she Despite the fact that Ireland had never had a der equity in social welfare benefits, in taxation and led, and tried to give a voice to people in need. woman president before, Robinson was elected to in the civil service. She challenged the jury systems Robinson was a leader who truly used her power the position by a large margin. As a national figure, discrimination against women, and fought for the to benefit those she led. She was a leader who was Hobinson continued to use her power to express the right of 18 year-olds to vote before she even entered willing to take risks, to listen to everyone, and work concerns of the people. She became involved in the presidency. · for those who need leadership most. humanitarian efforts both in her own country and After her election, she continued to voice a strong This leader was a woman who overcame harsh abroad. Robinson converted her formerly inactive desire for unification and humanitarian effort in odds to present a simple message of active humani­position into a voice of concern for Irish and interna­Ireland. She implemented her views in order to pro­tarianism and belief in oneself. Her message is still tional problems. tect women, the poor and the voiceless factions of alive today. 


0


The Notre Dame Council on :International Business Development 
Congratulates New Board Members ... 
Robert Holby Brian McMullen Danelle Adams 
Jane Sarson 
V P. ofDevelopment Director, CDC Director, lnternsh;ps D;rector, Internships 
...Thanks Old Board Members ... 
Tim Keller President  Kurt Lovell SPCChair  Lesley Belden VP ofOperations  David Johnson VP ofFinance  
~n Menghini VP. ofDeve/opment  Angela Cantu Director, CDC  Randy Dominguez Director, Internships  LJ Carolyn Parnell D;rector, Internships  
Carin Pankros Director, Communications  Brad Gurasich Director, Finance  Jen Stirk Director, Accounting  C> Dave Rogero Director, Accounting  
0  
Jessica Hartstern ·  Elizabeth Brown  
Director, Business ,Services  Director, Operations Management  

...And Wishes All Members a Great Summer! 
.. 
<> 
<> 
= 

• 
Wednesdav. April 29, 1998
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
BySARAHJ. HILTZ Associate News Editor 
The mood was light and the 
insults were plentiful at last 
night's "Roastin' Pal Joey," a 
roast for Indiana Lt. Gov. Joe 
Kernan. 
College roommates, war bud­
dies and politieal colleagues of 
Kernan took turns revealing 
stories about this year's Notre 
Dame commencement speaker 
that few know, most of the sto­
ries reflecting Kernan's person­
al past. 
Bob Buetter, mayor of Mishawaka and aster of cere­monies for the roast, set the humorous tone for the evening, ·commenting that the television commercial advertising the roast was on the air almost as much as commercials for 
Menard's. 
Buetter ridiculed the selection 
process that decided who was 
going to speak at the roast. 
"The committee asked who 
would like to take a few cheap 
shots at Joe. The response was 
overwhelming," said Buetter. 
Senior class president Beth 
Nolan, who protested the selec­
tion of Kernan as commence­
ment speaker in an article in 
the April 2 edition of The 
Observer, was also the butt of a 
few jokes. 
"I believe I was not the first 
choice for master of ceremonies 
because I am not internationally 
acclaimed," Buetter said. "I 
apologize for my insignifi­
cance." 
Buetter then turned to 
Kernan and said, 'Trr. not so 
sure you were the first choice, 
either." 
Tom Cuggino and Jerry 
Goetz, Kernan's teammates on 
the Notre Dame baseball team, 
had a few tales to tell. 
"What is the difference 
between Joe Kernan and 
Hudy?" Goetz asked the audi­
ence. 
"Rudy played in one more 
game than Joe." 
The duo, while noting that 
Kernan's collegiate batting 
average was .204, continued 
the off-color analogies by asking 
what Joe Kernan and Michael 
Jackson have in common. 
"They both wore a glove for 
no apparent reason," said 
Goetz. 
The events of the evening 
included videos that spoofed 
Kernan's political campaigns and his receding hairline, both ofwhich were favorite topics for ridicule among the speakers. 

Mike Collins, WSBT-TV anchor, public address announcer for ND football and Kernan's college roommate, presented a more scathing view of the criticism surrounding the selection of Kernan as com­mencement speaker. 
"We couldn't have cared less about the commencement speaker, as long as he got the speech done fast before the keg got warm," said Collins. 
"Don't worry about a handful of whiners. Some of them will whine about the color of the Range Rover they get for gradu­ation," said Collins, referring to Nolan and other disappointed seniors. 
Dr. Fred Ferlic, an orthopedic surgeon with personal and pro­fessional ties to Kernan, wore scrubs and surgical gloves to describe the hip replacement he performed on Kernan. He used the opportunity to criticize Kernan's Democratic leanings, using medical and political puns to do so. 
"When I gave Joe the anes­thetic. I told him to count to ten. 
He couldn't. Like a typical Democrat, he got his numbers mixed up. 
"When I asked him to breathe into the mask, like one of his Democratic role models, he said, 'I don't inhale."' 
Friend Patrick McMahon made more jokes about Kernan's campaigns, while high school and college buddy Riely O'Connor used his guitar to make fun of Kernan's business acumen. 
O'Connor and Kernan had been involved in a "collectible sports glassware" business. They had developed and mar­keted a series of eight "Great Victory glasses" which, accord­ing to O'Connor, featured great moments in Notre Dame foot­ball and a 24-karat gold inlay of the Dome. 
O'Connor lightheartedly blamed Kernan for the failure of the business, claiming that he was responsible for poor manu­facturing. 
"Instead of being on top of the Dome, the Madonna was float­ing somewhere over Osceola," sang O'Connor, calling the depiction "borderline sacri­lege." 
WRC 
continued from page I 
have the WHC's adviser, dean of the First Year of Studies Eileen Kolman, present at the individ­ual meetings was turned down. 
The officers of the WRC said they plan to meet today with Kolman, director of the gender studies program Kathleen Biddiek, and law professor Barbara Fick to determine what options they ·have and what course of action they take. 
"Somehow we'll represent the center on Thursday," McMahon said. "If we weren't to attend, they'll make a decision based on the facts at hand." 
Cassidy said in his letter that if he is unable to meet with the WRC's officers, he "will have to make a decision based on the information that I have." 
Allegations that the WHC had pamphlets providing informa­tion about abortion services made available through Planned Parenthood surfaced last week, when the conservative campus monthly Right Reason published an article describing the center's offerings and raising questions of how the WRC fit within the moral teachings of the Church. 
Sean Vinck, the author of Right Reason's article, said last night that he and the newspaper were pleased that the University was taking the issue seriously. 
"Our hope [in publishing the article] was that we would receive a response from the community that reflected the gravity of the situation," Vinck said. "We feel it is a matter of life and death." 
Mohrman disputed the idea that providing materials about abortion services contradicted duLac. 
"There's a big difference between having a book, pam­phlet or written materials about abortion and actually promoting it," he said. "Having this materi­al -I don't think that makes us enl'illll'age or participate in any activity which coutravcnes the mission of the Catholic Church." 
But Vinck said the difference is non-existent. 
"It's not a question of the dif­ference between printed materi­als and the promotion of abor­tion. Its [the WRC's] printed materials are a promotion," Vinck said. "Any group that dis­pense information about Planned Parenthood is promot­ing abortion services. 
"This is the most serious moral issue of our time," Vinck added. "If they are complicit in this holocaust, what does that say about our university?" 
Cassidy's letter indicated that the review of the WRC was part of the annual review of all clubs who seek renewal of their rec­ognized status, prompting the WRC's officers to question the timing of the investigation. 
"Two months ago, we submit­ted our application [to renew our status as a recognized group]. And we've already got­ten funding allocated by the Club Coordination Council. which seems to mean that we've already been approved," Mohrman said. "If there was any question about our applica­tion, that should have been addressed then." 
For his part, Vinck said that he didn't think the WRC should be refused recognition. 
"My view is that the WRC should remove the pro-abortion material and that they should change the tone of the center into a place that is welcoming to and caring of unborn children," he said. 
"This whole thing has miscon­strued what the WRC's goals and purposes are," McMahon said. "Abortion is not what we're all about. If you. looked at our bookshelves, you would actually get the correct impres­sion that we advocate the pro­life position. [This controversy I is a detriment to the women on campus who could benefit from what we offer." 


Hoeckman 
continued from page 1 
Referring to Biblical scrip­ture, such as Jacob and Essau, Boeckman emphasized the historical connections between Judaism and Christianity. 
"We are 'others. We are also brothers," he said. "We will ) i move in the right direction as 
J 
long as wemove together." Boeckman admitted that the
~ 
Catholic Church, like any other human institution, has its shortcomings. 
"Of course one can find hints of anti-Semitism in the nooks and crannies of the Church. It is true we do have people who make blunders, ignorant people who are insensitive," he said. 
But Hoeckman emphasized that these people are not the norm. He pleaded with Jews to recognize Catholic attempts at reconciliation and to over­look isolated incidents of prej­udice. 
"\Ve must take the first step, which is repentance and cleansing of the soul. I believe we are honestly trying to do this in the Catholic communi­ty, and Pope John Paul II is leading the way," he said. 
Boeckman also gave his personal pledge to continue working on the questions sur­rounding current Jewish­Christian relations. 
"I can assure you that it is my deepest desire to see these controversies come to an end. They are bad news. But the good news is that despite them, the dialogue goes on," he said. "I am fully aware of the long way we have come and the long way we have to go. I want to go the full way." 
At the conclusion of Boeckman's presentation, Rabbi Michael Signer, direc­tor of the Notre Dame Holocaust Project, invited audience members and con­ference participants to share their concluding remarks on the three-day conference. 
The international confer­ence was the culmination of the year-long Notre Dame Holocaust Project. 

Tobacco 
continued from page 1 
on that." 
According to du Lac, "Prior consent of all room mates is required" when determining wether or not to permit smoking in individual dorm rooms. 
No other forms of tobacco are regulated by du Lac or rectors. "There are not a lot of people 
who [chew tobacco]," Scully said. "You don't have to pass a law if it is not a problem. Sure they spit out on the sidewalk and right in the area that you are walking. But there are not a lot of them." 
Seetch agreed. 
"The cups of dip spit that are sitting around the dorm and the trash arc digusting," he said. "But they don't smell and they are not a fire hazard. so it doesn't matter as much." 

Sal11te the 1993 CANOAX .McNair Graduates! 
Luis Andal6n William Bauer Benjamin Campbell Tasnim Fisher John Garza Bethany Heet Annette Henderson Jessica Howie Binh Huynh Daniel Ibarra Samuel Mancilla Saul Mancilla Thong Moua John Nakajima Robert Peters Juan Rios Jaime Sutton Linda Tovar 

.... a •"""" =a = 

Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Unknown forces slaughter 40 in Algeria 
ALGIEHS 
Attackers stormed a town south of the cap­
ital yesterday. slaughtering 40 people in a 
pre-dawn raid, Algerian security forces said. 
Secmity forces were sent to investigate the 
massacre in Chouardia. 60 miles south of 
Algiers, tlw military said. No other details 
were provided. No one claimed responsibili­
ty for the attack, whieh occurred in an area 
whPn~ the Armed Islamic Group, a violent 
anti-government organization, is known to 
be activ1~. At least 75,000 p1~ople have died 
as a result of an Islamic insurgency that 
erupted in 1992 after the military-backed 
n'gime cam~eled parliamentary elections an 
Islamic party was set to win. International 
efforts to persuade the Algerian authorities 
to allow an independent inquiry into the vio­
lence have failed. · 
FBI grabs mobsters for extortion, racketeering 
NEW YOHK 
:\ reputed mob boss and 11 others con­nected with organized crime families were charged yesterday with demanding regular payments l'rom businesses in Manhattan's Garment District. The accused 12. who were all in custody. were charged in a federal indictment with conspiring to commit racke­teering and extortion for collecting $30,000 to $40,000 each month since the mid-1980s. Tlwy face a maximum of 20 years in prison on the most serious charge. FBI assistant director Lewis Sehiliro said the arrests of .J o s ~~ p h Defed e , th e a c ti ng b o s s o f th e Luches1~ family. and 11 others, including members and associates of the Gambino and Genov1~se crime families, may help disman­tle the mob hierarchy that threatened vio­lence as it demanded payoffs in the Garment District. 
Nigerians execute traitors 
ABUJA, Nigeria 
A week after Gen. Sani Abacha became the 
only candidate for Nigeria's presidency, his 
military junta on Tuesday sentenced 
Abacha's former right-hand man and five 
others to death for plotting against the 
rr~gimc. Gen. Oladipyo Diya is the most 
prominent figure now facing execution by fir­
ing squad. Others inelude Gen. Abdulkarim 
Adisa and Gen. Adeniyi Olanrewaju, both for­
mer Cabinet ministers in the military govern­
ment. When the trial began, Diya, 54, insisted 
he had been framed. On Tuesday, he was not 
permitted to say a word. Shackled in leg 
chains. Diya and the other dofendants stood 
before the military tribunal's presiding offi­
ecr, Gen. Victor Malu, who announced the 
verdicts and sentences. 
Market Watch: 4/28 
AMEX:Dow 733.0.3 
+4.03
}ONES 
Nasdaq:-18.67 1831.77 

+I 1.4(, 
NYSE: 563. '56 
+0.51 

S&P 500: 
Composite1085.11 Volume:
8898.96 -1.4.) 684,000,000 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
CO\f!'DiY II! Iii H 'Mr CUA:S!jf \ !jAJ::S PRICE 
TF!H E.W,\:-;A · RTS fHR ZS.93 0 4.17 2.125 U:\ITHl RI:::ST,\1.5 URI !1.6K 3.562 .H.062 !\!CO RECYCLI::SG I\1R 11.03 !.HIS 18.250 ::SETWORK EQUII'TE ::SWI< 9.90 1.8!2 20.125 I'I!YSICIANS RESRC I'RG 9.86 0.4.17 4.875 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
fRI POLYT,\ • AOR Tl'l -13.11> ·0..112 2.062 PRI\1ARI< CORP I'\1K ·12 54 ·5..112 12.540 ::SORD RESOUHCf.\ ::SRD -9..10 -0.250 2.H7 PEPSICO INC I'EI' .7.qK ·.1.4.17 .19.625 WE.~TF.RN OIC ITA I. woe -7.78 ·!.62S 19.250 
page 5
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
• YUGOSLAVIA 
Ethnic Albanians declare War 

AsSOCIATED PRESS 
PRISTINA 
An ethnic Albanian militant group warned Tuesday of more fighting with Serb forces in independence­minded Kosovo, saying the province is in a state of war. 
The clandestine group, known as the Kosovo Liberation Army, said in a statement that it "will launch thun­derous counter-actions when neces­sary." 
Serb police and the Serb-dominat­ed Yugoslav army have kilJed more than two dozen ethnic Albanians in the past week alone in a bloody cam­paign to keep Kosovo part.of Serbia. Ethnic Albanians, who make up 90 percent of Kosovo's population, want independence. 
"We are in a state of war," read the statement, which was released to Kosovo's ethnic Albanian media. It also indicated that the group would not recognize any agreement on Kosovo unless it is made under international mediation and Serb fore<ls are withdrawn. . The group called on the United States and other Western powers to support "the just fight of our people," and increase pressure on the Yugoslav government. Serbia is the dominant of two remaining republics in Yugoslavia. 
The United States was to meet with five European nations Wednesday in Rome to discuss ways to try to pres­sure Yugoslavia into peacefully resolving the conflict in Kosovo. 
The so-called Contact Group. which also includes Britain, France, Germany. Italy and Russia, coordi~ nates international policy for the Balkans. 
In Kosovo's capital, Pristina, Serbian negotiator Ratko Markovic accused ethnic Albanian leaders of fomenting violence by refusing to attend talks. The ethnic Albanians demand foreign mediation, which the Serbian government refuses. 
More than 150 people have died since Feb. 28. wh~Il Serb security forces launched attack.s they said were against ethnic Albanian terror* ists and separatists. 
The latest violence has further hampered the chances ofa negotiat­ed solution to the future of Kosovo. Serbia has ruled out independence as an option, 
Some 7,000 Albanians marched Tuesday in Pristina for the 19th con* 
secutive day to. protest Serbian rule. Unlike their earlier. silent marches, the protesters chanted demands for independence and carried banners with slogans such as "Serb Police Out ofKosovo;'' 
In Mosc()w. Russia's acting foreign minister Yevgeny Primakov .said 
· Tuesday that Albania has camps for · training terrorists who are then sent into Kosovoto fight. 
• TURKEY 

Kurds admit to Swedish assassination 
leader Abdullah Ocalan,
General claims 
ordered Palme's killing after Sweden decided tohis guerrillas extradite eight rebels in the Workers' Party, known askilled Palme the PKK. Ocalan was also angered that Sweden Associated Press granted his wife asylum after she defpeted from the 
ANKARA PKK, it said. 
A Kurdish rebel comman­The group rejected the der says his guerrillas claim Tuesday, however, assassinated Swedish and spoke of a Turkish plot Prime Minister Olof Palme to discredit tlw rebel orga­
in 1986 in retaliation for nization, the German-based Sweden's extradition of pro-Kurdish news agency Kurdish rebels, a Turkish DEM said. 
newspaper reported "Such dirty accusations Tuesday. directed at the PKK for 
The allegation was the years have proven to be latest in a string of report­untrue," OEM quoted a ed claims by Semdin Sakik, rebel spokesman in the second-in-charge of a Sweden. Kurdish rebel group, the Palme was killed while Kurdistan Workers' Party. walking home from a movie since his abduction earlier 
theater with his wife in this month by Turkish downtown Stockholm. troops in northern Iraq. Christer Pettersson was The Istanbul daily Sabah convicted of the killing, but reported that the party's the verdict was overturned 
by a higher court on grounds of insufficient evi­dence. 
Sweden's supreme court is considering a motion to retry Pettersson. 
Sakik reportedly said Palme's murderer escaped to France after the attack. Turkish authorities are investigating his claims, Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Ecevit told reporters Tuesday. 
Sakik's alleged testimony was not the first time the PKK has been implicated in the Palme killing. Sweden had incurred the wrath of Kurdish militants in the early 1980s when its gov­ernment branded the PKK a "terrorist organization." 
Prosecutor Jan Danielsson, who leads Sweden's investigation in the Palme killing. told the Swedish paper Aftonbladet that authorities would wait for a report by Swedish 
diplomat Katarina Berggren, who was briefed by Turkish authorities Tuesday. 
"There is a strong indica­tion that the Turkish side is trying to discredit the PKK," the newspaper quot­ed Danielsson as saying. 
Several other theories have emerged surrounding the Palme murder. 
In 1996, a South African police official testifying on apartheid-era (Times impli­cated agents of the previ­ous regime. 
Sakik commanded PKK operations inside Turkey and is accused of having masterminded a fatal attack on 33 soldiers in 1993. 
Since his abduction, Sakik has also reportedly claimed that several Turkish journalists, busi­nessmen, politicians and human rights activists had links to the PKK. 



Researchers investigate decrease in SMC enrollment 

By ALLISON KOENIG 
Associate News Editor 
Student enrollment at Saint Mary's is down. 
Although this is a well-known fact to many in the College com­munity, the actual reasons for the drop and the efforts being taken to improve the numbers are unknown to many Saint Mary's constituents, especially the students. 
Last spring, the College con­tracted the services of Maguire Associates Inc. to look into the situation. The company special­izes in enrollment management consulting, advanced research strategies and strategic commu­nication. 
The organization is staffed by a variety of individuals who hold Ph.D.s in market research. Many of Maguire's employees are per­sons who held previous positions as deans of enrollment or were somehow involved in higher edu­cation "hot seats," according to Linda Cox Maguire, executive vice president of the company. 
Maguire, in an interview earli­er this spring, was quick to clari­fy the urgency of Saint Mary's enrollment issues. 
"We're not here to save the College," she said. "There have been situations with other schools when we were called in as a last resort to save the place, but that's not at all what we're doing here." 
Maguire explained that Saint Mary's had shown some prelimi­nary danger signals, such as a fluctuation in the yield of stu­dents, and that her company was called in to find out why. 
She elaborated on the steps the Maguire research team fol­lowed in the investigation of enrollment. The first step exam­ined the departments which have the most contact with incoming students; efforts of the offices of admissions, financial aid and other facets of the College were studied to ensure that they were "doing all that they can do" in the recruitment and enrollment process. accord­ing to Maguire. 
The second step involved con­ducting market research. The team developed an instrument to enter the market place and study the target audience, or inquiry pool. The pool consists of high school senior women who know of Saint Mary's and represent 

IHlcnJPJPY 2 [ ~rt IB3 iJr11Jh.~~J JJ1Ul~timl ~ ~ ~ 

JLCO)W~, JMcn>m UJ.~ JD)~(fjl 
the social and en onsequences of any job I consi ··. ··thereby striving to create a.·....···•··.·· ust; peaceful, and nonviolent wo ··· 
V Jl\te~ested? 
me sign (and get your green rihhb.ri) ·· ong with your senior Peace Studi~s 
•tU(:lt:nL:> today in LaFortune from 11:00..2 
or in front ofC1. Ifyou miss us there or .. ·'ha.ve any questions call Lynsey at 243·5}19. 

the college-bound population. 
According to Maguire, Saint Mary's inquiry pool includes approximately 15,000 young women per year. "If we can help Saint Mary's seriously attract more of those students, they may not have to increase the actual inquiry pool," Maguire said. 
The total sample of the study was 500 students and 204 of their parents, with whom the Maguire team conducted half­hour interviews. This provided "a wealth of information," Maguire reported. 
"We went to the people who have thought about [Saint Mary's] for even one second ­and we found out about their priorities, what they knew about Saint Mary's, and what other institutions they were consider­ing," Maguire summarized. "We know a whole lot more about the target audience now." 
In the company's study, Maguire focused on three core competencies: what is important to students, what Saint Mary's excels at and what the school is acknowledged for. Essentially, the team was searching for any misconceptions that needed eradication. 
"Our team has spent 2,000 hours working for, and thinking hard about, Saint Mary's," Maguire said. "Those are hours that Saint Mary's stafl" members simply don't have available to look at this situation." 
In its first and second updates on the research to the College community, the Maguire team reported that college-bound women are investigating poten­tial schools and narrowing their choices much earlier in their high· school career than in prior years and generations. 
"That alone has profound implications about when we communicate with those stu­dents," Maguire said. 
The content of the communica-
Own Your Ow11 Home For As Little As ... 
In 30 days, you can own the waterfront condominium or
$49 9 ~z,Mm•th' 
townhome you've dreamed oC located in a park like setting just minutes from downtown
South Bend and shopping
• Rate For information abo11t this liinited offer, call



$4 750Down 
' Payment 232-2002 
"Mtmtl!ly prilrciJ>il' illlti intat'St has,·d '"' 11 2 bedrot'lll rizw nmd''"'"'ium pnred <If 594,990 <L'itlr ,, 2-1-(1 buytiO<L'Il 3fl vr. fixed mit' nwri:O:IIS<'· Rllft's 11re subit•cf to . is i11 !'{ftoct ou·sdecl llll'flll"'·'' l1omes tmd is m.ule . · . ktrdfr 
tion is under analysis as well. Maguire described five areas specific to Saint Mary's that have come under observation as important aspects of the commu­nication to potential students: how a women's education is marketed, Saint Mary's relation­ship with Notre Dame, the size dynamics of the community, the meaning of a Catholic education, and the potential barriers to applying to Saint Mary's. 
Maguire, a graduate of Douglas College, the sister school of Rutgers University, knows from personal experience that marketing a women's college is not easy. 
"Figuring out how to introduce an all-women's education to high school women is a constant challenge," she said. 
"An important aspect of our role is to help [the Saint Mary's] community develop a consensus on those issues, from a market­ing perspective," she said. "Ultimately, it's going to take a couple of years to fully absorb the information that we're gath­ering right now." 

Introducing ... 

• ''CASTLE POINT SELECT'' •
: Designedfor the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low • : Monthly Rate --just Compare! 
••
• * UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED 
••• 
• 
Spectacular Furnishings Available! •
•
• 27" Stereo Television •• • Cherry Finished Furnishings • •••• • Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker • • All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding •• • • • Plus Much More!
• 
• MILLION DOLLAR RENOVA11UN •••• •• * LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starting at $494.00 • 
•• * LARGE Two Bedrooms (1 ,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 • •• • OR $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants •• 
: Included with rentals for a LIMITED time --FREE full privilege ••
•
• membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including: : *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball •••• * Sauna & Whirlpool * 3 Racquerball Courts * Indoor/Outdoor : *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Basketball 
•• Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Pofular
• Apartments While They Last. 
CastfePointApartmentsCCeveCaOO @ JronwoOO1\oaas 

• 272,.8110 
HWhere Ro~a( (iving is Reasonct6fe" 


----------~----------------~---------­
Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Open letter denounces 
Cesaro addresses Student Union 
By TIM LOGAN "We need to ... attack perti­their life experiences." 

Colombian violence 
News Writer nent issues," he said. "We need The president also pledged 
Student body president Peter Cesaro outlined his goals for the coming year in his state of the Student Union address, given last night in Montgomery Hall. 
Cesaro annou need that SafeHidc would be expanded to Thursdays next y•~ar, and listed several initiatives which his office will push for over the rest of the term. He particularly focused on academic affairs and student services. 
The president talked about the nePd to address a wide range of issues and solicit a variety of opinions from across campus. 
to take our proposals, our ideas and our solutions not only to the students, but to the administra­tion, faculty and rectors." 
One of the changes Cesaro called for was an improvement in student-faculty relations, such as a monthly lunch program which would allow undergradu­ates and their professors to eat together and talk in a less formal environment. 
"This will give students an opportunity to meet their profes­sors outside the classroom," Cesaro stated. "We can learn not only in the subjects in which we take our classes, but also from 
that his office would work 
toward increasing gender and 
diversity programming, improv­
ing student tutoring in all five 
colleges, and developing a 
"sound ofl'-campus meal plan." 
lie announced that SafeRide will be expanded to Thursday nights next semester and will be staffed by paid coordinators. This change was a significant part of Cesaro's election platform, and has been discussed by student government for some time. 
Cesaro also focused upon the importance of communication between the different branches of the Student Union. 
"Since we are all working for the betterment of Notre Dame, communication and working together ar~ essential for cam­pus-wide support and campus­wide success," he stated. 
Confusion about the responsi­bilities of each branch of the Student Union has created fric­tion over the past. year -the first under the body's new con­stitution. At times the Student Senate has become bogged down in legislation adjusting the work­ings of the union. 
Cesaro hopes to avoid this fric­tion and have the various branches work together effec­tively. 
"We will learn from the expe­riences of last year's pioneers," hP. stated. 

Notre Dame Stepan Center Basketball Courts 
May 4th-9th May 13th -16th May 18th Lyons hall May 6th-9th 
St. Mary's College LeMans Hall Main Lobby 
May 6th-9th May 15th 
Campus Hours ~~, of Operation : MAILBOXESETC.• 10am-Spm 

Free Pick Up
$1.00 Off 
Please call for appointment. 
UPS Shipping 
Pick up is free. but no discounts will 
(Per Box) 
be accepted. 
277-6245 Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood • 2 Blocks East of N.D. Hours: M-F: 9am -7pm • Sat: 1Dam -6pm 
By AlEX ORR 
News Wrirer 
Another advocate of human 
rights was gunned down this 
month in Colombia. 
The murder on April 18 of 
Bogota lawyer Eduardo Umana 
Mei=Idoza by a right wing death 
squad marked a rising trend of 
murder and violence against 
human rights activists in that 
country. It is a trend that has 
come to the attention of the 
international community, and 
one that those at the University's 
K~llogg Institute want to see 
come to an immediate halt. 
The institute released an open letter this past Thursday to the president of Colombia, Ernesto Samper, decrying the "deterio­rating situation" of abuse and oppression for defenders of human rights. 
The letter reads in part, "We feel obligated to join the interna­tional outcry, calling for an end to murders in Colombia, in par­ticular of those who defend human rights. Respect for human rights is a basic condi­tion for the democratic develop­ment of any country. At risk of losing its human rights defend­ers, Colombian society is becom­ing increasingly vulnerable in the face of these violations." 
Democracy, an ideal which Colombia helped pioneer in South America, is fast eroding in the face of increasing lawless­ness, said Scott Mainwaring, director of the Kellogg Institute and one of 18 signers of the let­ter. 
"Colombia is one of the oldest democracies in the Western Hemisphere," Mainwaring said. "But the situation for human rights has deteriorated so much in recent years that observers no longer consider it a democracy." 
Mainwaring said that the letter is intended to bring intetnational pressure to bear on the govern­ment of Colombia, which has been notoriously weak in pro­tecting its citizens from such attacks by paramilitary death squads. 
"The government has not vig­
orously prosecuted these crimi­
nals; it has not done enough to 
bolster the judicial system. The 
government, through its silence, 
is complicit to the murders," 
Mainwaring said. 
However, there are signs that 
the attention of the international 
community is at last being 
drawn the Colombian govern­
mental neglect. 
"This particular incident is 
chilling enough that the United Nations has taken notice," Mainwaring pointed out. The United Nations' Commission on Human Rights held a minute of . silence on April 20 for the slain Umana, and appears to be final­ly realizing the scope of the abuses perpetrated under the 
Samper regime, he said. 
The letter is also intended as a 
sign of unity and support for 
those opposed to the violence, 
particularly among members of 
the Catholic Church. 
"Colombian bishops are very 
concerned about the extraordi­
nary violations of human rights 
in that country," said Father 
Robert Pelton, a representative 
of the Latin American/North 
•
American Church Concerns 
organization, and a supporter of 
the letter. "It is important to 
show that we are in solidarity 
with them -important for us to 
take a stand." 
Pelton also echoed 
Mainwaring's emphasis on giv­
ing the issue international expo­
sure. 
"I think that the Colombian 
government will become sensi­
tive to international awareness 
of the situation," he said 
In an effort to reach a wide audience, copies of the letter have been sent to Colombian newspapers, human rights orga­niz-ations and American con­gressman, in addition to Sam per. 
Umana is one of over 20 human rights activists killed in Colombia. over the past 18 months. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Friday, Aprll24 
10 p.m. A University employee was transported by Security to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a hand injury. 
Saturday, April 25 · 12;20 a.m. Security transported a 
Siegfried Hall reSident to .St. Jo~eph ·MedicC) I Center.tor Jreatrn~nt of· >:InJuries sustaineddunng'a tanWi'hr 
4:25p.m. Security responded to a 
-~::&.:~:#:t1V 
. ':-~ 
two-car accident at Library Circle. There were no injuries reported. 
10;03 p.m. A University employee was cited by Security for disregarding a stop sign on Holy Cross Drive. 
Sunday, April 26 
8 p.m. A University employee reported vandalism at Rockne· Memorial Building. 
9:06 p.m. A Keough Hall resident reported th~t.i'li~ vehicle·wa~i 
ln\lolved·in ahit1and·run acCICient1 wt)ile parked in thEtD2 lot. 
~{ 
-:-;.::~:~~~}~::;' · ·>-:-:Hrmmt::,:: -:·---· 

ake every day Mother's Day. 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
page 8 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 29, 1998 

Congratulations to Holly Manthei Soccer, Universit_y ofNotre Dame 1997-98 Honda AwardNominee 
-
' 

I 
\ ' 
I ;;;. ~ 
J 
~~ 
1\­
~· 
~·
.. 
' 
J 
I 
I 
' 
~ 
,, 
1 
J 
"' 
( 
-•( 
,. 
J ( 
,, 

-

Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
. 
Woo to· deliver commencement address at Holy Cross 
Special to The Observer 
the 31st graduation ceremony of business, according to the May 9 at lloly Cross College in International Association for 
Carolyn Woo, dean of thH South Bend. Management Education. College of Business In her first year at Notre Dame, She also recently was named Administration at Notre Dame, Woo is one of just two women to one of 40 "young leaders" of will be the principal spPaker at lead a private, accredited college American academics by Change 
Offtcc of Information Tcchnologics  
Remember last. ye~hep  '  ry went to a  
24-h0 u r schedule-:ll!li"fa'i!' stu(l<,,,..,  d finals  but  
1the computer tJti"~;t~r didn't?  
'  .... ·t::@:=:::i:i::;::::::~l*il;::::;;:::.::;,,,,,,,,,,,  ·::·· .  


Tt-iiS TIME THINGS ARE DIFFERENT! 
The Office of Information Technologies has modified the Hesburgh library cluster so that the cluster will stay open around the clock during study days and finals. 
No more packing all your books & hiking across campus to DeBartolo at 2 am. Stay. Type. Print. 
t 
Office of Information Technologies 


·SR. CL 
,. 


BUY YOUR CLASS T·SHIRTS 
SPONSOREI) OF 
A/S CLUB 



WARNINGI 
DEADLINE: MAY 1, 1998 
REDBUD 
Fine Art Workshops May 18-30, 1998 
3 CREDITS 
ceramics, creative writing, fibers (smc-core credit), printmaking (SMC-core credit) & sculpture 
sponsored by Department of Art Saint Mary's College 
call 284-4655/284-4631 for program description and application 
I 
l 
·j 
' 
magazine, the journal of the American A'isociation for Higher Education. 
Woo, who is also Siegfried 
Professor of Entrepre­neurial Studies, came 
to  Notre  
Dame  from  
P u  r  d  u  e  

Un i ve-r s i t y , where she 

had served as Woo associate executive vice president for acad­emic affairs and professor of management. 
A native of Hong Kong, Woo was educated there through sec­ondary school by the Maryknoll sisters. She earned three degrees from Purdue, beginning with a bachelor of science degree in economics, conferred with hon­ors and highest distinction in 1975. 
She was awarded a master of science in industrial administra­tion and was named a Krannert Scholar in 1976, and earned her doctorate in strategic manage­ment in 1979. 
Woo's research has been pub­lished in journals including the Harvard Business Review, Strategic Management Journal, Management Science, the Journal of Business Venturing, and Advances in Strategic Management. 
Holy Cross offers a two-year lib­eral arts curriculum leading to the associate of arts degree. 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998
page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
) 
J. 
i ( 
! 
l ) f 
~ 
{ 
I ( 
1' 
i 
i 
J 
l 
} 
I ) l 
< j 
j t 
lOTH ANNUAL/ALL-AFRICAN  
STUDENT CONFERENCE  
MAY 8-10, 1998  
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME, INDIANA  
"AFRICA AND THE AFRICAN PEOPLES IN THE 21ST  
CENTUR~  THESECONDSTRUGGLE  
AFRICA  FOR INDEPENDENCE"  
LAND  OF BEAUTY & PLENTY  LAND  
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS  

*WEDNESDAY APRIL 29 10:00 AM-6:00PM 
Mrican Art Exhibition and Sale-Music Workshop Saint Mary's College/Dining Hall 
I; 
*THURSDAY APRIL 30 
10:00 AM -6:00 PM 
African Art Exhibition and Sale-Music Works~op 
Hesburgh Library Lobby 
*FRIDAY MAY 1 10:00 AM-6:00PM 
Mrican Art Exhibition and Sale-Music Workshop Hesburgh Library Lobby 
*FRIDAY MAY 8 
10:00 AM -10:00 PM 
Mrican Art Exhibition and Sale-Music Workshop Center for Continuing Education Lobby 
*SATURDAY MAY 9 9:00AM-7:00PM 
African Art Exhibition and Sale-Music Workshop Center for Continuing Education/Room 104 
2:00PM 
The Mrican Diaspora Summit: 
"The Uniting of a Divided People: Africa and the Diaspora" Olaitan Oyetunbi, Andrews University. 
"Harnessing Religious Energy for Development in Mrica and the Diaspora" Joseph Karanja, Program Director, Dungarvin Intliana. 

a W(j £22!11 
31 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 11 

African conference begins May 8 6 students, I prof 
Observer Staff Report 
Experts on politics, culture and economics in Africa will gather together May 8-10 in the Center for Continuing Education for the 1Oth annual All African Students Conference. 
As a precursor to the confer­ence this week and next, the African Students' Association, the Kellogg Institute for International Studies, The Snite Museum of Art and the May 8-9 in the Center for Center for Social Concerns Continuing Education. All have established a cultural showings will last from 10 exhibit called "Return to the a.m. to 6 p.m. Sources." The conference will tackle 
The exhibit, which also the topic of "Africa and the includes a music workshop, African Peoples in the 21st features Lamine Gueye from Century: The Second Struggle Senegal along with two master for Independence." drum players from the same Beginning with an opening country. It will run today in address by George Ayittey, a the Saint Mary's dining hall, professor at American tomorrow and Friday in the University in Washington, Hesburgh Library lohby and D.C., the conference starts in 
the Center for Social Concerns 
at 8 p.m. on May 8. 
The following day, Mbye
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
presents 
Cham, professor of African 

DIDQ,AN~ 
AENEAS 

directed by Deborah Norin-Kuehn 
A fully-staged production of Henry Purcell's work, the first Engli'ih opera. 
studies at Howard University, will speak in the Center for Continuing Education audito­
Moreau Center/Little Theatre 
rium at 10 a.m. about African Friday, May 1st & 
cinema and society. A wide array of events
Sunday, May 3rd • 7:30p.m. 
addressing economics and pol­
Tickets on sate at the Saint Mary's 
itics in Africa will take place
College Box Office 
the rest of the day on May 9, 
in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
culminating in a gala party in the Alumni-Senior Club at 8
Credit card orders by phone: 
p.m.
219/284-4626 
A full schedule of events, along with a list of the partici­pants in the African Diaspora
-~-·,·-o 
Summit, which will take place on May 8 at 2 p.m.. can be
/MG_(!.fk~ 
~NOTAl! DAMI!, IN 
obtained from the African Students' Association. 
·~ 
By SHANNON GRADY 
News Writer 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies has announced its 1998-99 recipi­ents of summer grants for grad­uate students, undergraduate students, and faculty. 
Graduate student recipients include: Darin Hayton for research on Johannes Sambucus, astrology, and the court of Emperor Rudolf II; Mark Jantzen for research on "The Mennonites of the Vistula Delta and the Construction of German Nationalism. 1772-1870"; and Melanie Vile for research on the role of sulfur in the carbon bal­ance of Czech peatlands. 
Undergraduate recipients include: Kathleen Keller for research on "Collaboration and Resistance: The Implications of Forced Labor in Occupied France"; Elizabeth Scharpf for research on "The Economics of European Union Social Policy"; and Peter Folan for research on "The Ministry of Priesthood According to Karl Hahner." 
The faculty recipient of the 
For relaxation and great For Reservations or Directions:
food with an almost 
255-1526 
forgotten style, 
100 Center Brewery off come join us! Lincolnway in Mishawaka. $5.00 off with this ad W-Th 5:00-9:00 
(Void 5-13-5-16-98) 
Fri-Sat 5:00-10:00 
win Nanovic grants 
Nanovic grant is Professor John Welle for research on his forth­coming book, "Catastrophic Cinema: Italian Poets, Film History, and National Identity. 1896-1996." 
The amount of the grant for each graduate and undergradu­ate recipient is $3,000. The amount of the faculty grant is $4,000. 
Keller, currently a junior at the University, believes that her experience abroad in Angers, France, was of central impor­tance to her paper. 
"I enjoyed my experience abroad and loved Angers, so I thought I would write a paper that expressed that," Keller said. "I think a reason many people don't apply for this grant is because they can't think of a topic. but my time in Angers gave me a topic." 
Keller enjoyed her experience in France so much that she is returning this summer to spend two months with her host family. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies awards grants for projects that deal with European issues. Preference is given to those proposals that require travel to Europe. The grants can be used for summer research or for research during the 1998-99 school year. 
Keller plans to use her grant this summer as she continues researching her topic of forced labor in Angers. 
'Til use the grant to pay for the expenses of my research in France," she said. "Since I won't be able to work this summer to pay for it, the grant money will take care of that." 
Do you 1'\eed extl"a cash fol" this summel"? 
The .AILAm~i .AssociatioV\ is hi~iV\9 people who woLAid like to wo~k f~om 
3uV\e 31 1998 thru 3uV\e 61 1998 . '98
o~ ~euV\lOV\
f 
You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! 
Please apply at student employment 336 Grace Hall or The Alumni Association 202 Brownson Hall 

Wednesday, April 29, 1998page 12 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Procrastinate during study days. Do the crossword on page 3 5 
To all who participated 
•
IU 
Institute emphasizes spirituality for leaders 
By ARIANN BUTLER 
News Writer 
Saint Mary's students will be attending the third annual Institute for Spiritual Leadership this August. 
The workshops featured at this year's institute include Christian service, ministry to high school students, praying together, retreat ministry, small faith groups, and "Spirituality and My Major." 
The institute will be held at Lakeside, Mich., this year from Aug. 17-18. 
The institute, founded in 1996, was initiated as a way to bring together students, faculty, and staff and explore the many facets of spirituality within the Saint Mary's community, according to Liz Riegel, the liturgical min­istries coordinator 
In addition, the institute serves to improve the skills of all spiri­tual leaders on campus, Riegel said. 
"The three different cultures [the students. faculty, and stam of the college meet each other in the focus of spirituality and com­mitment to enhancing spiritual life," Riegel said. 
Junior Elisabeth Krick, who has attended the institute since its inception, said the institute gave her confidence and focus as a spiritual leader. She stated that meeting other spiritual leaders who supported her and were excited about spirituality made her feel like she was not alone in her interest in spirituality. 
"The institute instilled in me the idea that spirituality is encompassing and universal. 
We're at a Catholic school. and spirituality should be a large part of our experience," Krick said. 
Senior Kim Jeselnick, who attended the institute last fall, concurred with Krick's state­ment. She said that the three dif­ferent culture at the institute provided her with the opportuni­ty to gain different perspectives about spirituality and made her feel part of a larger community. 
"It was encouraging to be working together with people for a common goal of improving our spirituality," said Jeselnick. 
Senior Kathryn Cousino, who attended the institute last year, found that being labeled a spiri­tual leader was a different and unique experience. 
"Leadership is never put in the focus of God," Cousino said. "Before I went to the institute, I did not consider the spiritual aspect of my leadership activi­ties, that God was part of the picture. The institute gave me a conscientious awareness about spirituality. It made me realize the value of spirituality in my leadership activities and instilled in me the belief that spirituality and faith in God are excellent tools for getting peo­ple involved." 
According to Riegel, spiritual leaders are those students, facul­ty, and staff who are attuned to the spiritual aspect of life and work to encourage others to incorporate spirituality into other parts of life. 
"Spirituality can often be the most neglected aspect of life in college," Riegel said. 
Interested students should con­tact Campus Ministry by May 8. 


Happy Birthdayl 

You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$1500 if you donate alone (first visit) +$ soo if you show college I.D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! 
+$1 Qoo per person if you recru1t someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 yAars old; proof of current address with photo I.D. 
,I 
'· 
Come to: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN 46601-1117 
Hours: Tu-F: 9:00-6:00 Sat: 8:00-5:00 234-6010 


Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Calendar of Events 
Freshmen lntro '9V Year End 
Celebration for Aftican 
American Freshmen and 
Seniors ·~I, f-~~, ·Thursday, April 30, 3:.QO p.m. 
LaFortune Ballroom II·· Itt 
lit!: \;;; 
······· ·.· . -. 
Lector Auditions+(S~niors) for 
Baccalaureate Mass 
•M•• .. ·.·~i 
Thursday, April 30 and,.May 1, 4:00 
p.m. Basilica 

Rejoice! cltholic Mass
< 
and S~nior Sendi;,iJff Sunday, May 3, 4:00;p~m. Sarin Hall Chapel.tiii~~~'ii·J· ;t!i;:·;'il'·~ . .·.··· 
Celebrant: Rev. D.. Reginald Wfli!t, OP 
-·-:=:~~-.-.__ .---. :· ' :-:·: .. . -.. --·:=::;::=.;:::=::::·:·:: 
Exam Break at Campus 
Ministry: . Donut,.. ~offee.'arul
Lemonade! ······· 
Dnt,, *w <·.•..•. 
AU.ar~ welcome: 
Monday-Wednesday,e.rvJay.. 4-6, ~.~00 
a.m~··j·=k·~,;,~g p.m ·• :~j{!i:;t~\f' ·':::···. .: j,r. Thursday; May 7th~t~·oo a.m n · 103 Hesburgh ····· 
• -.&-·::·-; 
ATTENTION, SENIORS!!! Senior Last Visit to the Basilica and the Grotto Thursday, May 14, 9:15 p.m. 
(following Seinfeld) 
Summer School Mass Sundays, starting June 7, 10:00 p.m. Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan -Stanford Chapel) 
FOURTH SUNDAY OF EASTER 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, May 2 
5:00p.m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. Sunday, May 3 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. E. William Beauchamp, C.S.C. Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Acts  13:14, 43-52  
2nd Reading  Revelation  7-9, 14-17  
Gospel  John  10:27-30  

One Last Consideration... 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Well, this is it; the end draws nigh, for all of us. This ending means different things for different people. For the seniors it obviously means something quite different than it does to the younger folks among us. For the faculty and staff and administrators it has meaning, too. All of us are affected by it in some way. But just what do we take away with us. There was a message conveyed on the Senior Class Retreat last year which is apt for us all as we end the year and move in different directions for a time... maybe forever. It's a message that has been stabbed at in this column throughout the year. It's really the question of what really matters in the end? What's the constant that will hold us together in our separation and in our distance from one another? 
I'd like to think that those of you who take the time to read this col­umn already know. I'd like to think, actually, that it is so ingrained in the hearts and minds of every one of us in this community that it need not even be said. And yet, it would be wrong not to say it, not to proclaim it! Please God, it won't be a shock to anyone that the one constant, the one thing that matters, the one thing that will hold us all together is Jesus, and the love that God revealed in sending him to be among us as one of us. Oh, I know it sounds pius, and maybe a bit ethereal, but it doesn't make it any less true. 
For those who call themselves Christian, there is nothing more, noth­ing else we need to cling to than that. It isn't money, or an accumulation of friends, or even "good times" that will ultimately sustain us in our search for meanjng and for happiness. It is only Jesus. Our leave taking of this place has us separated for a while, for some longer than others. But in the Lord, we are not really separated. Just as we gather united around the table now, we will again. Every time we gather to celebrate the Lord's supper, wherev­er we are, we gather together as one family. We are forever bound in Jesus and in Notre Dame. 
So whoever you are, whatever the circumstances around your depar­ture, whether it be for a few weeks before the summer session, or the sum­mer months or until the first home football game, Notre Dame will always be home. It is not, for you seniors, an ending, but a beginning of a life more wonderful and more blessed than you can now even ask for or imagine. Trust in the Lord's love for you and pursue God with the same fervor and hope with which you engage every pursuit. Have faith in the God who has brought you this far, and who will never leave you. As gift and prayer, we leave you with the words of Mrs. Charles Cowman and Mary Gorges: 
So now... we sail and something of what we may expect as we contin­
ue our voyage we may infer from the past. Without doubt storms will 
come as they came in the bygone days. But we will give them firm and 
courageous welcome, for we have already weathered so many storms 
that we are unafraid of the wind and the tide, the lightning and the snow. 
And so we shall -when the Voyage is completed drop anchor where 
no storms come, but where the green swell is at last in the haven dumb, 
and we are forever out of the swing of the sea. 
We have come very safely-hitherto; 
And sometimes seas were calm, and skies were blue; 
Sometimes the wild waves rose -the tempest roared; 
But never barque went down with Christ on board. 
And so it shall be to the very end-
Through ebb and flow, the one unchanging friend, 
Ruling the waves which sink at his command, 
Holding them in the hollow of his hand. 
There comes an hour, when, every tempest o'er 
The harbour lights are reached, the golden shores: 
Never, oh nevermore to fret or fear ­
Christ, give us faith to praise thee even here! 
From the staff of the Office of Campus Ministry, good luck on final exams, have a donut hole (or several!) on us. Godspeed in the days ahead. 
CAMPUS 
MINISTRY 

page 14 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
Igiri, Metayer receive first Thompson Award 



Special to The Observer In the past year, nearly 
$50,000 has been raised to sup­
The Black Alumni of Notre port the current scholarships,Dame have announced the first primarily through the contribu­recipients of the Frazier tions of African American Notre Thompson Scholar Award. Dame alumni, and in conjunction
The 1998 Frazier Thompson with the Notre Dame Generations Scholars are Cheryl lgiri, a junior fundraising campaign. from Capital Heights, Md., and lgiri has a 2.87 cumulative GPA 
Alan Metayer, a junior from and will graduate in May 1999 Trophy Club, Texas. with degrees in anthropology and Each award is for $2,500, for a government and international 
total of $5,000, in honor of the studies. recent 50th anniversary. The BA Her goals include achieving a 
of NO fund was renamed in 1997 master's degree in international to honor the 50th anniversary of afl'airs and evel)tually becoming the first African American gnidu­a Caribbean specialist with the 
ate of Notre Dame, the late State Department or an ambas­Frazier Thompson. sador to an East Caribbean state. 
The primary purpose of the She also hopes to establish a fund, to be presented annually, is music school for talented, eco­to help reduce the financial bur­nomically disadvantaged kids in den of a Notre Dame education her home area of Washington, for needy African-American stu­D.C. dents who have demonstrated Among other achievements. 
academic excellence while con­she is a Honald McNair scholar, tributing to the greater African­president of Model United American and Notre Dame com­Nations, humanitarian chair of 
munities.  the  Notre  Dame  Council  on  
'l(:"; J..:_. .. a?J""", t; /  [You still have a chance to rent this house]  

Closer te Campus than Club 23: Heward and Lawrence. 2 units. 3 bedreems each. $525 per unit. Landlerds eager te please. Call 675-0776. 
Earth Dayl Every D·ayl 
Save the planet, get paid and have fun! Full time and summer. Must be 18 or older. Work 2-10 pm Monday -Friday. Earn $32~ per week base plus bonus. Call 232-7905. 

International Business electrical engineering in May Beta Pi, recipient of the National Development, diversity student 1999. Collegiate Engineering recruitment coordinator for the His goals include earning a Award/All-American Scholarship, Office of Undergraduate master's degree in busine~s treasurer of the National Society Admissions, and a member of administration. Along with hav­of Black Engineers, and a Walsh Hall council. ing earned dean's list honors in Eucharistic minister for the crypt 
Metayer has a 3.62 cumulative each of his semesters at Notre of the Basilica of the Sacred GPA and will earn a degree in Dame, he is a member of Tau Ileart. 
No ·Summer Plans?? SuMMeR SeRviCe PRoJEcTS 
AV AJLABLE (ND students onlv! 
•$1,700 Scholarship/3 credits 
•8 Weeks volunteer work In Cities of ND Alumni Clubs 
Applications available: at the Center for Social Concerns 
Projects available in: 
Detroit  Red Cross-Bone Marrow Drive  
La Sed -Hispanic Comm. Cntr  
Ft. Wayne  Boys & Girls Club (car)  
Idaho  La Posada -migrant workers (spanish, car)  

Michigan City,IN camp for devel. disabled adults Dixon, IL Disabilities program and more 
Stop in for more information or call: Sue Cunningham 1-7867 or Erika Fuehrmeyer 4-1384 

PROBLEM: YouR FAVORITE COMPUTER CLUSTER CLOSES AT 2AM AND YOU STILL HAVE AT LEAST 4 HOURS OF WORK BEFORE YOU'LL BE DONE. 
hour 
SoLUTION: UsE ONE OF ouR UNSTAFFED, 24..HOUR ACCESS COMPUTER CLUSTERS; YOU'LL PROBABLY NEED A DOOR CODE TO GET IN, SO STOP BY THE STAFFED CLUS.. TER DURING THE DAY, SHOW THE CONSULTANTS YOUR ID., AND ASK FOR THE DOOR CODE TO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CLUSTERS! 
computer 
CCMB  210  25 Macs, 10 Suns  
CCMB  G015  12 Windows  
Fitzpatrick  177  99 Suns, 7 Macs  
Nieuwland  132  16 1\lacs, 12 SGis  
Nieuwland  202  52 Suns  
Riley  211  18 Macs  

access 
~------~----------~------------~--~~--~~------------~------------~~--------~­

OINT
Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
page 15 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OmcE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EmTOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EL>ITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
A'iSISTANT MANAGING EonuR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGfR ......... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR ............. Eduardo Llull Ao DF.SIGN MANA<;ER ........................ Brett Huelar SroRTS EDITOR ..................Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet 
ScENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Oylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Kli rsch CONTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EnITOR ............ Shannon Rvan PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Oa(um 
·n,c Ob,.-rver i' the inJt·pmdcnt nt-wspaper publi;hed by the students of the Univer>ity of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Colk,;c. It J,.._.,. not nect-......rily reflect rhc policies of the aJministration ofeither insriturion. The nCY.'S is rcpnrreJ a. accuratdy anJ objccrivcly a. poS>iblc. UnsigneJ eJirorials rcpre>em the opinion of the maJority ofthe Edotor-m-Chtef. Managmg hlnor. As.,isranr Managing Ediror anJ Jcpartmenr t....lirurs. Commentaries, lt·ncrs and columns prc.mt rhe vi"'~' of the aurhors, anJ nor ncc<>.-.rily those ofThe Observer. Vicwpnim space is available to .11 members of the Norre !hmc/S:~int M;~rv's community anJ to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is cncouragt·d. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/A<.<i,tant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 New.</Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sport' 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scenei/Saint Marv's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l@nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoim 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
WRC Should Represent 
'Culture of Life' 
I am writing in response to the article written by Bob Blaskiewicz that appeared in your Viewpoint section on April 27. It is my hope that I will address satisfactorily Mr. Blaskiewicz's concerns in order to further dialogue on this important issue. In writing this artiele, it was my hope to spark a thoughtful debate on issues of human life. 
Mr. Blaskiewicz states that I unfairly emphasized the presence of words relating to abortion. He also claims that I failed to mention specific, medically necessary procedures that Planned Parenthood provides. 
I will address this concern by stating that these words on abortion are vital to our understanding of the Women's Hesource Center. Abortion is the penultimate and most culturally decisive issue of our time. Its implications are profound. Few issues trump it in terms of' sheer moral significance. 
Contrary to his claims, there are more than "just four words" mentioning abortion in the center. I have documented them in my article. Not only do the Planned Parenthood Pamphlets mention them. but the "n~sourcc book" includes an extensive list of abortion providers. On top of this, we also know that a new pamphlet from one of thn local Michiana abortion clinics specifically mentions various typos of abortion procedures as well as their prkes. :vtany of the books in the eentPr also treat issues of reproductive scienec that indeed relate to abortion. 
Mr. Blaskiewiez says that I fail to mention many of the "nccPssary medical services" that Planned Panmthood providPs. I would ask him, could not the same procmiurcs be obtained at a local hospi­tal, doctor's clinic or organization that is not affili­ated with tlw grisly. money driven, murderous practice wn refer to <L<> abortion? Mr. Blaskiewiez appears not to rcaliz1~ Planned Panmthood's long and infamous history of eugenics and abortion advocacy. I would refer him to my article for a more insightful discussion of Planned Parenthood's pro-abortion record. Suffice to say that the only choice they support is the choice to abort an unborn child; their own record demonstrates this. I havr many medical professionals in my family and circle of friends; not one of thorn has ever found it a medical necessity to refer their patients to Planned Parenthood. Why would any organization or faith­ful Catholics refer women to that ravenous park? IIow can wr. Christians, defcndNs of life, commis­crate with the enemy of life, Planned Parenthood? 
Mr. Blaskiewicz claims that I used the quotation from both Ray Mohrman and Kelly McMahon, "We're not trying to fit into the ideal of the Catholic Church," in a manipulative fashion. He is wrong. It is he, and not I, who takes quotes out of context. I did not attribute that quote to Mohrman on four separate occasions. I attributed it to McMahon and Mohrman on one occasion. I used it on two other occasions in order to make a theological point; at no time did I take the quotation out of context or manipulate it. 
At no time did I force any words into anyone's mouth. I am certain that Kelly McMahon and Ray Mohrman would say as much. They are both intelli­gent individuals, eminently capable of stating their own beliefs and positions. I doubt that they would have allowed themselves to be manipulated by me. 
The crux of Blaskiewicz' s letter is a complaint that I 8mphasize only certain aspects of the WRC in my article, that I fail to mention many of its good attributes. lie might have a point_ I will address that by saying that just as I am sure that Jeffrey Dahmer had good attributes, so does the Women's Hcsource Center. Unfortunately, the moral gravity of their negative attributes tend to detract from whatever their positive attributes might be. 
The only issue here is the presence of pro-abor­tion material in the Women's Resource Center at Our Lady's University. This is an intolerable state of affairs. We must be vigilant witnesses of the Christian ideal of a "Culture of Life." 
Mr. Blaskiewiez asserts that I have "done the women of' Notre Dame a grave disfavor." I resent the implication that the WHC is a representation of the mainstream women on this campus. I know of' many women who were justly appalled by the con­tents of the WHC; they believe, as I do, that the WHC needs to make its services conform to the magisterium of the Catholic Church when they exist in a Catholic university. I am not discouraged by Mr. Blaskiewicz's unfortunate letter. Rather, I take solace in my belief that I have done a great service to the unborn children of our community. 
Sean C. Vinck Freshman, Stanford Hall April 27, 1998 
.)::·.·class{ . ... ~.~·!! .: s~j;yg!J~gl.J.p~i~ar 
character ·· · · 
1400 SAT or 
this class have · tly shown their lack of leadership. integrity and character. thereby embarrassing the underclassmen, alumni and the institution of Notre Dame. We should feel sorry for them. 
The class of '98 has no idea what Tradition means. There was a time not too long ago that if you booed your home team, its players. or coaches you got knocked out bythe Notre Dame loyal sit.; ting next to you. Booing in the stands is bad enough, but the stories of students booing Ron Powlus and his wife.in the library are embarrass· ing to everyone. Win or lose, Ron Powlus worked his tail off for Notre Dame and should be com· mended for his commitment to the Tradition. 
Recently. the leadership of the class of '98 has again shown their adolescence by questioning the choice of Joe Kernan as the commencement speaker. The fact that Joe Kernan served your country in the military, continues to serve your country as a public servant and survived the nightmare of being a POW makes him a more qualified speaker than the current president of our great nation. We can all learn from a decorat­ed Notre Dame alum who has overcome adversity to achieve success. The story of Joe Kernan is truly inspiring. It is a story of respect, integrity, loyalty, leadership. character and honor. It is sad that this class will be remembered for its lack of these qualities ... and as the Styrofoam class. 
Rob Letherman Class of'93 · April ~8; 1998 
• 000NESBUHY GARRY TRUDEAU • QUOTE OF THE DAY 
YOIJ motvWHAT THe 
NOT7HAT
LA'3T ''513/NF#//• C£1<-YAI?/lA,
meR£'S 
~---.. 516Nirte5, W!Vr TAIN~Y YAP~.
ANYTHING
YOU"f IT'5 THe NOT/ \
tui?ONG
!3NI?OFAN 
f,(J!TH 7HAT.
1 liRA/ I 
/ 
'When you get to the end of your rope, tie a knot and hang on_' 
-Anonymous 

• TABLE TALK 
Quality Conversation 
There are two topics of conversation generally considered taboo at the table: politics and religion. They invariably lead to conflict. At Notre Dame we have a third: sex-which, in some ways, is perhaps the turf where religion and politics come together. In any case, we can't seem to stop talking about it. Nor can we seem to talk about it very well. And so many would just prefer that we declare the whole subject ofT limits. 
::::=:::::::::::::::::::::;~~~~~;;:
= 
David Weiss 

you eat. There's a lot more on the menu than just food, so make your choices count." Now, at the end ofthe year. let's think about the quality of our conver­sations. What makes for good conversation anyway? 
I have a close friend who is adopted and has known this her entire life. In conversation once she described this knowledge as a lifelong "not­knowing" which has deeply shaped who she is. Her sense of self has had to have integrated into it the constant awareness of how little she knows of her own life at its very source. She lives daily with the truth that she is tethered to persons unknown to her. 
Good conversation requires something similar. It involves our meeting others with words that treat them in two specific ways. First, as others: as persons who are quite legitimately different from and unknown to us. Second, and precisely on that account, as persons tethered to us: as per­sons worthy to be known in their own right, but also as persons able to help us know ourselves better. 
By that measure, much of our conversation is found wanting. 
In my own view, Right Reason is seldom an example of either right or reason, but my deeper concern is that far from simply wishing to "cast out demons" around here, they seem to cast about demons with such enthusiasm. Even when they raise what is surely a legitimate question (though by no means one with an obvious answer) about the propriety of the Women's Resource Center providing abortion information, they do so with rhetoric that demonizes anyone who might think otherwise. No longer content to make the claim beneath their title that "the truth shall set you free," they now greet the others to whom they speak with the 

:I threat "not peace but a sword." I know the words echo Jesus, but I do not think the spirit does. I find it cause for lament, not solace, that this new 
~I subtitle is at least more accurate about their editorial intentions. Apparently if the truth cannot free those of us who see it differently, then the sword is in order. The Strake Foundation and the Maritain Center treated us to a series of lectures which promised to promote "meaningful discussion" on ques­tions related to homosexuality. Yet, as the controversial character and blatant one-sidedness of the· speakers began to elicit angry rejoinders from the audience, the organizers moved to reduce discussion to sound­byte commentary under the rubric of etiquette. In other words, "mean­ingful discussion" meant agreement that homosexuality is wrong or limit­ing your disagreement to a brevity unable to make any persuasive coun­terclaim. But I am troubled at times as well, by those who share a vision substan­tially close to my own. Common Sense, the campus voice of the left, pro­motes a sense which is hardly common, yet often, to my dismay. employs rhetoric which seems almost intended to keep it so. Can those of us with such impassioned convictions remember that, whatever self-satisfaction w~ take in making our cas~ to the extreme, we gain nothing if we simply alienate those whom we thmk need most to hear from us? Similarly, the Progressive Student Alliance promises agitation and noise and disruptions galore. But while these may serve the cause of justice, they are hardly synonymous with it. And they easily draw into the struggle a lot of momentum which is less than just in its motives. Agitation and noise and disruption can be effective at initiating conversation, especially across gaps of status and power. But they can also quite easily eclipse a concern for the others with whom we seek to converse. They should be employed with fear and trembling, or not at all. · Simone Wei!, whose contribution to the art of conversation is best put in a br~l~iant essay on the art of listening (as I recall it is entitled "Reading," but It s really about our receptiv~ encounter with that which is other than us) wrote at a different point: "we do not need to mutilate ourselves to find the sacred." Nor must we mutilate our others. Indeed, much of our conversation is found wanting. And vet, I am not without hope. · Last week's special section in The Observer, "Pride at Notre Oame" is without question the journalistic achievement of the year at the ND/SMC community-and a model of good conversation. It has offered the dis­cussion of homosexuality (which has too often been a discussion by het­erosexuals ab?ut·homosexuals) what has thus far been largely absent: the faces and stones of those brothers and sisters in our midst for whom this isn't an issue to be debated but a life to be lived. Any response to homo­sexuality, whether liberal or conservative, should be measured by its abil­ity to converse with and show compassion to these persons -in both in its means and in it<> end. And to do the same for the countless others for whom the absence of conversation and compassion has meant a condem­nation to ~ilence. I think we all owe a debt of gratitude to The Observer, ~nd espec~ally to_those p~rsons willing to be profiled, and to the produc­tiOn staff, m particular Michelle Krupa and Rob Finch for their fine writ­ing and photography. I, for one, hope that their style and tone set a stan­dard of conversation which will be pursued by many. Good conversation doesn't experience the otherness of those different from us as a threat, but as a gift. We are all tethered to persons unknown to us. Find one of them ... and strike up a conversation. 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian Ethics. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998
page 16 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Attack on Hesburgh A Disgrace to Logical Thought 
In my first column last fall, I 
explained my choice of "table talk" as a regular column heading by noting the impor­tance of what we discuss -or choose not to discuss -around the table. I wrote, "Table talk, as I intend it. is by no means 'small talk.' It is not simply that 'you are what you eat'; you 
also are with whom you eat
and what you say and do while 
There he goes again: in the latest edi­tion of "Right Reason," Fred Kelly attacks Father Hesburgh for his association with the Rockefeller Foundation in the 1970s. 
I feel obligated to respond, since on page 11 of the current issue it says that my prior editorial responding to his earlier attack two years ago is now wholly and utterly refuted. I don't mind this rhetoric, just as I'm sure the editors of RR did not mind my referring to their publication as "Trite Treason": it is all in good fun. 
But strangely enough, when I read Kelly's rather hysterical diatribe about Hesburgh's nonprofit activities two decades ago, I did not find anything to refute my conceptual point that Catholic leaders may sometimes legitimately serve with trans-denominational organizations that promote a wide variety of causes, even if the Catholic members object to a few of the causes the organization sup­ports, in the interest of fostering under­standing between Catholics and non­Catholics and furthering shared goals of great impor­
.---------------------------.. orders, will
tance. come to the 
This seems to be the principle that Hesburgh had in mind in serving with the Rockefeller Foundation. Now this principle of course only goes so far (in scope), and its application requires wise judg­ment as to when the objection­able ele­ments are too severe to allow continued participa­tion, i.e. when the end can no longer justify the means. I also pointed out that most of the organizations with Foundation support on Kelly's "objectionable" list, such as Planned Parenthood and the Population Crisis Council, were focused mainly on providing contraception rather than abor­tion, and since the legitimacy of contra­ception was itself apparently still quite controversiaf in Catholic circles at the time, Hesburgh may have had good reason to feel that the problematic aspeets of the Foundation's support were not so severe as to force his resignation. 
Shocking as this may be to the folks at RR, some Catholics in the 60s and 70s did not think that abortion was the only important.social issue. Whether at the time, in the face of criticism, he made the right decision in this respect is ultimately a matter for llesburgh's own conscience, which I do not presume to judge, lest I be judged as severely as I judge others. But even if Hesburgh was wrong, he certainly never became anyone's "dancing bear." and his work for civil rights was not done merely to suck up to the elite (RR p.3), and to say these things is a gross offense no'" only to Father Hesburgh but to all who owe him our debt of gratitude. 
However, it is now abundantly clear, as I hypothesized earlier. that the real reason for Kelly's anger is his perception that Hesburgh and "his generation of hopeful and progressive Catholics" in the 1960s and 70s are responsible for sullying Notre Dame's divine mission by opening the University up to non-Catholics and pursu­ing "greatness" as a research university. Hesburgh's vision for the University, Kelly tells us somewhat shrilly, leads directly to the presence of Planned Parenthood fliers in the Women's Resource Center. What is one to say to this, aside from the fact that it is an obvious non-sequiter? 
There is perhaps a fundamental question here. One can have a university with an overarching Catholic character that pur­sues other goods (such as scientific knowl­edge) that are in accord with faith but which are not specifically religious goods, and that welcomes non-Catholics and per­sons with differing views on difficult and controversial issues as full-fledged mem­bers (not merely as temporary guests), or one can have a university that applies a doctrinal litmus test to all of its faculty and graduate students, and makes its funda­mental mission an evangelical one. There is certainly a place and valuable role for the latter kind of institution in this world. But this is not what Hesburgh and his col­leagues chose for Notre Dame. 
Fred Kelly thinks this was the wrong choice, and a few will agree with him. But in judging the choice by its fruits, I think that most persons in the constituencies the University serves, including its religious 
opposite of Kelly's hasty con­clusion. 
For example, it was Hesburgh's decision to open the University that made it possible for me to get a first­class edu­cation here and to learn, as a non­Catholic, a great deal more respect than I pre­viously had for Catholic positions on difficult 
questions such as abortion. 
Finally, it should be said that it is papers like "Right Reason" and their staff, not Hesburgh, who are damned by association with an evil cause they hide inconspicu­ously behind their loud claims to self­righteousness. Right Heason, like virtually all far-right campus papers today. was started with seed money from a foundation devoted to the economic conservativism that serves the interests of its wealthy endowers. This why you won't see an·y articles praising the option for the pour in HR. And undergrads who work for such papers have a bright future if they want it: they can and usually do become the dar­lings of the most cynical wealthy elite in the United States, men like Hichard Mellon Scaife whose foundations bankroll organi­zations dedicated to promoting libertarian anti-government rhetoric and propaganda. For selling their soul to these monsters, undergraduates like Fred Kelly can assure themselves a nice office at the Heritage Foundation. a PH team ready to placP their columns in newspapers and magazines, and a eushy lifestyle defined by dinner parties with the ultrarich -all for the bargain price of~ little self-deception. 
Look at Dinesh D'Sousa and Linda Chavez today, for example. Given the arti­cle on the Progressive Student Alliance, it looks like Kelly is already practiced in underhanded infiltration tactics: he'd fit right in at a Scaife-backed operation like 'American Spectator.' It will be interesting to see what Mr. Kelly does with his life after graduation. I hope he'll surprise me. 
John Davenport Ph.D. Candidate, Depanmenr of Philosophy April 27, 1998 

Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
• .lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
:W:: 
WRC a Necessary Provider 
If the Office of Student Affairs decides to 
revoke recognition· of the Women's Resource 
Center on the basis that the group is -in the 
words of Student Affairs-''providing infor­
mation about tho availability of abortion ser­
vices," it will be one more piece of evidence 
that the organization that most consistently 
"contravenes the mission of the University" is 
the Office of Student Affairs itself. Any deci­
sion that denies the right ofindividuals and 
organization.'l to "provide information" vio­
lates the educational mission of any universi­
ty, Catholic or not. 
Though everything in my religious, cultural 
and family background makes me disagree · 
with the official Catholic position on abortion, 

Just trying to catch your eye. You are quite gullible, you know. 
contraception, sexuality and otherquestions 
about the right to control one's own body, l 
very much respect and even admire the pas­
sion and commitment many Catholics bring to 
the question of abortion. I respect those 
beliefs far more when those who espouse 
them give at least equal emphasis to other 
Catholic teachings about, for instance. social 
justice, war and economic inequality; when 
the University threatens to withdraw funding 
from any organization guilty of "providing 
information" about the availability of a career . 
in the military, or that "provides information'' 
about joining a corporation that runs sweat­
shops or despoiLc; the environment, I will at 
least give it credit for consistency. 

WINNER: Lieutenant Governor Joe Kernan. 
But we all have our contradictions. My point 
is not to advocate that the Student Activities 
Office police all aspects of Catholic doctrine 
equally, though that might be an improve­
ment over the single~minded obsession with . 
sex evinced not only in t)le current investiga­
tion of the Women's Resource Center, but also 
in its ongoing refusal to grant recognition to 
the independent student gay and lesbian 
organization. 
Rather. it seems to me that the "mission of 
the University" is precisely to provide infor., 
mation. It can and should couple that infor-J 
mation with information about the official 
Church position on the issue, and those com­
mitted to that position should make forceful, 
passionate arguments to support it. That is 
howone espouses one's moral, ethical, politi~ 
cal or religious beliefs iri a democracy. 
In a democratic context. a university has an obligation to allow and even support the exchange of information and ideas, especially on questions where its "mission" requires thatit take a strong stance on a controversial issue. If the University decides to punish a student group for ''providing information," it will be promulgating ignorance where it should be providing knowledge and promot'­ing diversity ofopinion. Any institution. that chooses ignorance over education should stop calling itself a university; at the very least, such a decision makes my job as a professor -ateacher, an educator, a researcher com­mitted to the pursuit of knowledge -much more difficult. 
All of us who teach are regularly reminded ofa fundamental fact about education: We cannot control what a student does with the knowledge we help them discover, inside the ~~115sroom and out. Ifwe are preparingour f students to live in a democracy, we must re~­ognize that what they do with. what we teach is their choice. That is especially true when the knowledge is about something like abor­tion which is, we sometimes forget, a consti­tutional right guaranteed by the Supreme Court. whether we like it or not. 
The student may choose to use the informa­tion about abortion services to consider hav­ing an abortion, or she may use that informa­tion to organize a protest against abortion, or may take another position or another action on the issue. If she takes any ofthose actions on the basis of accurate knowledge. and a full understanding ofCatholiC teaching on the issue, then the University of Notre Dame has fulfilled its mission. If she acts on the basis of ignorance. no matter what position she takes, the University has failed both that student and the soeiety as a whole. 
As a faculty member committed to the University's educational mission, I very much hope the Office ofStudent Activities chooses knowledge over ignorance, and drops its unwise, inappropriate and undemocratic investigation of the Women's Resource Center. 
Glenn Hendler 
Assistant Professor ofEnglish April 27, 1998 
VIEWPOINT 
page 17 
• SMAll AMOUNTS OF 00TNESS 
Zahm is Gay; Kory Minor is Nice 
Gay, adj.-happy. We are all very happy to live in Zahm Hall. We couldn't be happier -so as to say -gay-er (Webster's doesn't list degrees of gaiety, so I made one up). My RA is gay. So are my section-mates. I am definitely gay. 
LOSERS: Procrastinators. 
The people I feel sorry for are the peo­ple who called me and told me that they will stop 'as soon as [insert favorite excuse here].' They want to, but they probably never will. 
I hope you don't contract cancer on 

the way; I can tell you from experience that tomorrow never comes. Unless you start today, you will just come up with 
Spencer 
another excuse after finals are over. WINNER: ROTC. After a relatively quiet year, in the 
past month or so ROTC has had to 
endure the barbs of one Dave McMahon 
and listen to many seniors say that 
being shot out of the air and held as a 
Stefko 
(SSSHHHH/111: Don't tell The Powers That Be. We won't be allowed to give homilies anymore.) 
But I do not intend to make light of this article. We have a very important purpose here today. It is time to check the list of winners and losers for the academie year of 1997-1998. I have compiled a comprehensive list of each to help out. 
If you like what is written here, the opinions are all mine. If you don't, ummm, the opinions expressed in this column are those of someone else, not necessarily those of the author. 
I le took the high road even though we (the student body) acted like the whiny brats many of us are. I, for one, am dri­ving up from Pittsburgh after a week of summer school, to hear him speak. Want national reputation? Tom Clancy has a national reputation, eh? I think your mothers and sisters would just loooovvvve to be told it was a mistake to give women the right to vote. I'm sure Reg!,riC White would be willing to come speak, too. He has a national reputation now. 
And on behalf of anyone on campus with any decency whatsoever, I extend many thanks for coming to speak after we as a student body have proven, beyond a doubt, that we are, as a whole, not worthy to have you. You are a class act. 

LOSERS: Whiny brats. 
The complaints against Lieutenant Governor Kernan reek of elitism, I'm· 22-and-I'm-still-angry-at-my-parents­for-not-getting-me-that-BMW-for-my­16th-birthday, and 1-want-this-and-I'll­stomp-my-feet-until-1-get-it. Thank God some of you are being told "no" after 22 or 23 years. You'll do pretty well in the real world, by the way. 
A related note to student leaders: Next time you want to speak on behalf of a part of the Notre Dame student body to reinforce a stereotype, do us all a favor. Pull your lower lip up over the top of your head, and button it in the back. Then swallow. 
And, hey, this is America after all. If you don't want to hear him speak, don't show up. I don't think graduation is mandatory. 
WINNER: The ND family. Many say the "Notre Dame family" is dead. I beg to differ. 
No matter how many idiotic "Saint Mary's girls are parasites" articles are written. the Notre Dame family is alive. {I know, the letter was sarcastic. It had to bP. NO ONE can be that devoid of intelligence and modesty -or flat out wrong-at the same time.) No matter how angry we get at eaeh other over cartoons and insensitivity, the family stays strong. Even tongue-in-cheek North Quad v. South Quad articles can­not kill the family. 
Two weeks ago I wrote an article talk­ing about having chewed tobacco, hav­ing a growth removed from my lip and waiting to see the results of the ensuing biopsy. 
Here's how the "dead" ND family reacted: 41 c-mails, 11 v-mails. With very few exceptions, they were all sup­port, prayers and pleas for help. Fourteen people are now trying to stop, even with finals around the corner. 
Dead family? Try again. Alive and well, thank you. 
Prisoner Of War for 11 months is not 
enough to earn one the right to speak at 
such an elite (turn nose up in the air at 
this point) institution. 
These men and women go through 
Super-high Intensity Training to prepare 
themselves to defend our country's 
interests and they get ripped by some 
leftist sipping wine in Massachusetts. 
Mr. McMahon; just because you couldn't 
make it through the Super-high 
Intensity Training necessary to gain the 
right to be a member of the United 
States military doesn't mean that those 
who can are bad people. I'll get to the 
rest of you later. 
LOSER: Mr. McMahon. 
If we take for granted the need for a 
force that defends our country -hard 
to believe for many leftists, I know ­
who better than those given a well­
rounded Christian education? Bitter you 
couldn't hack it in ROTC? 
Some people are wanna-be's. Some 
people are has-beens. Every so often 
rare people will break the mold and cre­
ate categories of their own. When the 
opportunity presents itself, we should 
thank these people for broadening our 
minds. ThLs is a perfect opportunity. Mr. 
McMahon, thank you for creating the 
category of never-was-and-never-will­
be. 
WINNER: El Nino {short term). 
There actually was spring this year. 
Novel concept in South Bend. 
LOSER: El Nino {long term). 
No one knows if there are long-term 
ramifications to El Nino. Predictions 
have varied from global warming to 
California detaching from the continen­
tal U.S. In any event, the effects are bad. 
(How exactly California detaching from 
the U.S. is a bad thing, I don't know, but 
the consensus has spoken.) 
WINNER: ND Security. 
They do a good job with a very diffi­cult task: Listen, we are between 17 and 23 years old. We are liars. The officers have to deal with that and never know­ing just when they will piss ofT the wrong rich alumnus' kid and be writing parking tickets. I would rather have someone's fragile ego wounded (WAAAH frickin' W AAAH) than have rapists and robbers on campus or peo­ple being hit by cars. 
LOSERS: People who whine about ND security. 
The first letter came from a University of Oregon student who claimed that the baggy-waggy he had to carry all the way from D-2000 was too heavy-wevvy. He was obviously bitter about something. He staved in Zahm for the week, he 
. . 
wrote. 
I have my own theory. I think some­one in Zahm asked him to drink a beer. Outraged, he probably demanded wine. He was probably presented a Mad Dog. The lack of \\ine most likely brought about his whine. Oh well, nothing a cap­puccino and some sushi in the great Pacific Northwest can't make all better. Mommy will bring you a glass of warm milk, if you'd like. 
WINNERS: Sarah McLachlan, Jewel and Paula Cole (when she shaves her arm-pits). 
What the heck do they have to do with Notre Dame campus life?, you ask. 
I tell: every healthy-looking female who gains national notoriety brings us -as a society -closer to appreciation that you don't have to look like Cher or Fiona Apple to be attractive. On a cam­pus that breeds eating disorders, I sug­gest bringing all of them to campus next year. 
LOSERS: Wimps. 
In the rea1 world, when you say some­
thing, you are usually asked to back it 
up. 
Sight seen: Some clown fan talking 
much smack on Kory Minor at a 
Bookstore Basketball game. 
Next sight seen: Very confused, "V\110, 
me?" look on the smack-talker's face 
when they came eye-to-eye. 
(Minor acted like the class act he is, in 
case you're wondering. Which made the 
cowering even all the more painful to 
watch.) 
The spectator spent no money to enjoy 
this game. This is a game of street-ball, 
not a game where part of the deal to 
play is to keep one's cool. This 110­
pound individual had no right to talk 
something he couldn't back up. What 
with Minor being the size of your basic 
NFL-caliber linebacker -or dorm ­
I'm guessing the smaller gentleman 
couldn't back it up. 
Well, let me qualify that in the real 
world, the individual had no right to talk 
something he couldn't back up. 
Obviously, this individual has never 
been in the real world. 
WINNER: Kory Minor. 
He gets this award for not beating the 
110-pounder like a rented mule. 
WINNER: Girls' Bookstore 
Basketball. 
The tournament was tremendous, and 
shame on you for six weeks if you 
missed it. I understand the guys' tourna­
ment was good, too. 
But I have gotten sick of watching 
people tuck the ball away and run with 
it. I am a pretty good referee, and I went 
to one game and counted 14 uncalled 
travelling violations. I'll watch Autry 
Denson do that in the fall, thank you. 
The game is no longer about basketball, 
it's about athleticism -the only part of 
the game that anyone cares about any­
more is that part that is played above 
the rim; but if I want to see who can 
jump the highest, I'll go to a track meet. 
I want basketball, I'll go watch the 
girls play. They actually run offenses, 
not just one-pass-and-shoot. It's like the 
basketball of yesteryear, but without 
having to see John Havlicek's pasty 
white thighs under those too-short 
shorts. The guys played as hard as they 
could under the structure presented, so 
they are winners, too. 
The championship game in the girls' 
tournament was awesome, but that 
bings me to my next ... 
LOSERS: The winning girls' 
Bookstore team. 
In the middle of a great game, the incredible spitfire point guard of the eventual losing team left her hip laying under one of Stepan Courts' baskets. The winning team then played 5-on-4 the rest of the game. I know-injuries are part of the game -but anyone who has ever been to a basketball camp knows the common protocol for any legitimate injury is to play 4-on-4. They had a chance to show class and still win, but instead allowed circumstance to dic­tate the game. No one will ever know who was the better team. 
WINNER: RSRC. 
The point of a university is to teach people things they don't know. The structure of the RSHC is perfect for that. It is not set up tor meathead weightlifters-that's what the Hock and the JACC are for (closing either would be a mistake, by the way). The HSRC teaches people who previously had no interest in fitness to get them­selves in shape. If that means you must always have a spotter, OK; if that means I must work out in a bicep-free environ­ment (the rules dictate no sleeveless shirts), I'm OK with that, too. 
Grand Tally: Winners 9, Losers 7. Looks like it was a good year on cam­pus after all. Good Luck with finals, and have a safe, fun summer. 
Spencer Stefko is a junior American studies major. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer, 

I 
I 
if! 
iII
I. 
rl'l
I. 
'\ 
~ (' 
fI 
~ ' 
!r 
II 
j, 

101 ways te precrasti-n 
I. 
~I, 

I,'' Sneak into the underground tunnels and start pumping gansta rap through all those steam 
vents around campus. Actually read all of the plaques and 
statues on campus. Check your e-mail every two min­
utes, then check it again. Organize your own student 
group incorporating the word ''liberal" or "progres_sive" 
just to stir up some controversy. Start up a campus 
wide game of tag. It'd be easy-go up to 
people, hit them, say "You're it!," then 
run. Go to the dunes. Sample each flavor of ice cream and yo-cream 

in the dining hall each night. Explore the Snite. Stand in front of DeBartolo wearing a sandwich sien saYine UThe end is near... 
Camp out in the middle of the quad and commune with the grass. Take your professor out to dinner, buy him/her a few drinks, and 
proceed to inquire about the upcoming final. Start 
I '· 
night. Seek out anyone in your 
dorm making any noise dur­ing quiet hours and imme­diately report them to the proper authorities. 1\Joke 
lists of luhar you l1ouc to do, in descending 

order of irnportonce. 
along Luith u fun 
adjectiue to portroy your atritucle olJout that. Rent a sappy movie 
and replay all the mushy parts over, and over... 
Play frisbee, foot­ball, or soccer on 
the quad. Go to mass. 
Clean your room. 
Pack. You work bet­
/ 
ter in a ·clean space, 
right ?Get a tan (natural 
of course). Take a journey 
behind the lakes on your bike. Have a barbeque. Go Rollerblading. Ploy o 
round ofgolf. Fly a kite. 
Think about all you have to do, then panic. Go to Nick's Patio for 
breakfast. ~~€ ~~14) /.A f), GET 
A TATTOO. Call your parents. Sleep. 
Bowl for bunnies. Play croquet. Attend a lee­
~ : 
ture. Go to Acoustic Cafe. Put all your pictures from the year in a photo album. Drink (milk of courst.'). Meet vour friend for a quarter dog. Se~Ut ~~ ta tlkt C4te ~ .~ 'tte keH t~i~ 
a{-. Take up photography, painting, or a musical instrument. 
'! 
Call that guy from bio -this may be your last
r ,"r 
i 
chance. Sharpen your pencils. Call all of your classmates to make 
sure you all agree on just exactly what you think will be on the test. 
ll' ;;\ .,) 
Compare with friends to see who really has the most hell­ish week. Go hane out in the arcade in LaFortune. Start and 



• 


studying fer finals 
practice ' your own religion. cno ~oga and meditation 
on tfte quad. SuRF THE wEs. Check out the Center for the 
Easily Amused website. WATCH AN EPIIODI OF uiOUTHPARK." Go to the mall. Buy new clothes -we all work better when we feel good. Get a haircut. Do laundry. Spend some time at the 
# 
Grona. Try and catch ducks on the quad. ~tl4vt 3uk~tnt B~fbdAU 4~w ~~·d /4tAJ.-,ntt~wJ. ~~'« A)t ~,4,..tT4,..t.~ Swim in St. Mary's or Holy Cross lake. Immediately report to the Health Center. Count 
how many steps it takes yon to get fron1 your dorm to the library. See how many items you can take from Grab 'n Go. Plant flowers. Bing your books to the dining hall and stick around between meal time to see what really goes on in there that prevents hungry students from coming in for a bowl of cereal. Le~.-wn to knit. Pee. Play the lottery. Read The Observer. 
Hug a tree. Stare. Make a mixed tape. Act 
music. Hook­

up. Regret hooking-up. Collect 
aluminum cans. Ji.A.VI SDROI' ON YOUR 
NIICHHOI{~. Get jiggy wit it. Sing in the rain. Climb the rock wall at the Rock. WATCH ONE OF THOSE "REAL WORLD" MARATHONS. 
Play Euchre. Smoke a 
cigar. GROW A 
CH lA PET. Go to Taco Bell. Watch "Days ol Our Lives." 
Balance your check book. Read The Dome. Try on your 
bathing suit. Color. Go tell all your friends not to both­er you because you're going to start
§-­
studying very soon. Try to eat as much free food at campus events as 
pOSSible. TYPE YOUR PAPERS 
OVER IN EACH FONT IN CASE 
YOUR PROFESSOR HAS A PREFER~ 
ENcE. Analyze your dreams. Speak in 
tongues. GO 0 N A DATE. Pla}'Atari. Procra~·­
Procrasti nate. Procrast
· 
Procrastin Proc r(JPltl-ate. Procrastinate. 
cprocrasttnate. 
I \ . I 


page 20 The Observer. SPORTS Wednesday, April29, 1998 
.NBA 
Timberwolves take a 2-llead in series with Sonics 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS 
The Minnesota Timberwolves are growing up quickly, and now they're one game away from knocking the Seattle SuperSonics out of the NBA playoffs. 
Playing with all the poise and confidence they're supposed to lack, the seventh-seeded Wolves stunned the playoff­tested Sonics on Tuesday night with a 15-4 fourth-quarter run on the way to a 98-90 victory and a 2-1 lead in the best-of-5 series. 
Minnesota, which made its first trip to the Western Conference playoffs last season and won its first postseason game at second-seeded Seattle on Sunday, can win its first series Thursday night at home. 
Game 5, if necessary, would be Saturday in Seattle, and if the Sonics don't rally, coach George Karl's seven-year tenure could be over. 
But the Pacific Division-cham­pion Sonics have been here before. They trailed Phoenix 2­1 in the first round last year before winning the last two games. 
Anthony Peeler led Minnesota with a career playoff-high 20 points, shaking off his 7 -for-32 shooting performance in the first two games to go 7-for-15, including 4-of-7 from 3-point range. 
That included a 3-pointer for an 83-76 lead with 5:58 to play, matching Minnesota's biggest of the game. But it turned out only to be part of the surge dur­ing which Seattle fell apart and the Wolves capitalized on near­ly every opportunity. 
Gary Payton threw the ball out of bounds on the next pos­session when Detlef Schrempf cut unexpectedly. Kevin Garnett dunked a rebound at the other end to make it 85-76. 
Vin Baker scored to make it 85-78, but Minnesota scored the next eight points, including a long 3-pointer by Stephon Marbury, with the help of two Seattle turnovers to take its biggest lead, 93-78 with 3:00 remaining. 
Garnett and Sam Mitchell each had 19 points for the Wolves, who lost 15 straight at home to Seattle since a victory Dec. 30, 1990. The win was Minnesota's seventh straight at home, extending the franchise record it set by winning the last six regular-season games at Target Center. 
Payton scored 26 points_ to lead the Sonics, who led by as many as 11 in the first quarter, but wilted against the Wolves' "small-ball" lineup, which rou­tinely keeps three guards on the floor. 
Baker had 17 points and 12 rebounds for Seattle, which lost despite outrebounding Minnesota for the first time in the series, 42-29. 
Trailing 50-46 at halftime, the Sonics held Minnesota to 7­for-20 shooting in the third quarter to take a 72-67 lead into thP final period. The Wolves were 1-for-6 from 3­point range in the quarter after going _7-for-11 in the first half. 
Blazers 99, Lakers 94 
Damon Stoudamire has his first playoff victory, and the Portland Trail Blazers are still alive. 
Stoudamire scored nine of his 18 points in a fourth-quarter surge Tuesday night as the Blazers overcame Shaquille O'Neal's 36-point, 16-rebound performance to beat the Los Angeles Lakers 99-94. 
The Lakers still lead the best­of-5 first-round series 2-1, but the Blazers can pull even with a home-court victory in Game 4 on Thursday night. 
Walt Williams scored 17 points as the Blazers' reserves outscored their Lakers' coun­terparts 26-12. Isaiah Rider had 18 points and 10 rebounds. He was only 6-for-19 from the field, but sealed the victory with four free throws in the final 8.1 seconds. 
O'Neal was 16-for-23 from the field, including 6-for-7 in the fourth quarter, but made only four of 12 free throws, including two misses with 59 seconds remaining and the Lakers trailing 94-90. 
In fact, all the Laker.s were just 19-for-35 from the line. 
After a miserable offensive night, Portland's Rasheed Wallace came alive in the fourth quarter to score nine of his 11 points, but he missed two free throws with 58 sec­onds left and the Blazers up 94­90. 
The Obsetver accepts dassifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sif-leds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3_ cents per character per day, i~cluding all spaces. The Obsetver resetves the right to edit all classifieds for coment without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NEED 2 GRAD TICKETS! OFF CAMPUS It's located at 1717 E. Lincolnway, CALL CHRISTINE@ 243-S961 STUDENT RENTAL 1995 Eagle Talon. Garaged, low so take Eddy Road acr9ss the river LETTERS LETTER 8 LETTER 8 
NOTICES 
3 NEW PROPERTIES mileage. Loaded, sunroof, mint and take the 2nd Lincolnway exit 
Dorm Refrigerator wanted x105SO PROPERTY-1 .. .4-5 STUDENTS condition. Non-Smoking Owner. (Lincolnway E. South/Mishawaka) LetterS Anyone going to CHICAGO on PROPERTY-2...6-8 STUDENTS $10,400 616·684-8443 and follow Lincolnway for about 1 Tonight, WED april 29 WEDNESDAY of finals week, MAY PROPERTY-3 ....... 2 STUDENTS 1/2 miles. the Landing w111 be on Finnigan's
FOR RENT
6th? I need a ride to Midway SECURITY SYSTEMS, STOVE 95 Dodge AvengerES V6 Auto your left. Finnigan's Airport to catch a plane at S that AND REFRIGERATOR. NICE Loaded Excellent 277-0230 Tonight, WED april 29 night! I will give you _gas and toll Now Renting CONDITION. On SATURDAY night, catch LetterS $$$! Campus View CALL DAVE OR CAROLYN 
I
Please call Katy@ x10S1 1 & 2 Bedrooms 291-2209 TICKETS UMPHREY'S McGEE LETTER 8 LETTER 8 LETTER 8 
2 Blocks from campus Need a lift? ND/SMC Finals COF­272-1441 DUPLEX: '$575 FOR EACH Need graduation tickets! Family one last time before finals at the let us knock your socks FEE SPECIAL at STUDEBAGELS. THREE BEDROOM UNIT. coming from California. Call Luke off in our final shin-dig 
' 
All regular coffee 25% off April 30, CHEAP SUMMER HOUSING-VERY CLEAN. WALK TO CAM· @ 273·9602 MADISON OYSTER BAR of the year! 
May 1, 4-S. Good luck on finals! large, furnished house for any num­PUS. CONSCIENTIOUS ber (3+) spotless wi entertainment OWNER. 675-0776 GRADUATION TIX NEEDED located at 402 E. Madison St.·, just Come hear the United Poets of system. WD, and deluxe kitchen. CALL LAURIE @ 243-4788 west of Niles Ave. on the east race. America read on Thursday in
ILOST & FOUND I 
Rent negotiable. 289-7136 Jack or College Park apt. avl June&July. Show starts at 9 p.m., so get there Haggar College Center at 7:30p.m. Dave Call 273-9844 I NEED 2 TICKETS FOR GRADUA­early! Did you have skiing TION!! Don't miss the biggest event of tor your 4th PE this year? Rooms 'in private house. 1 mile CHICAGO-SUMMER APT. IF YOU HAVE "ANY" EXTRAS Hey -did you know ... Senior Week .. from NO. Summer rental. If you are looking for an apartment PLEASE CALL DINO @4633 A dark-haired girl lent me her Greg 634-0766 in Chicago for the summer (Lincoln We're open early, late, and week· SAINT MARY'S PARTY ON THE 
black gloves and I still have Park area, 2-bdrm, fully furnished}, $$$$$$$$ ends for your convenience! ISLAND!! them -please call Nicole Need Summer Housing? call Liz: 243-5826 -THE COPY SHOP ­@4·0565 to claim them. Sublet available, rent negotiable. or Brigid: 243-2765 I will buy your extra graduation tick­LaFortune Student Center BBQ and beverages! 
Sorry about that!! Call Jason ets. Call Jenny@ 687-8435. Phone 631-COPY Music by Indianapolis' DAve and 258-5414 Rae. Monday, May 11th, 6 to 11
FOR SALE
=) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) My 7 siblings all want to go to grad­ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and p.m. Anyone over 21 invited. (Hint, 
Bed 'N Breakfast Registry for NO uation. Extra Tix? Call Matt 4-364S babbling brooks in summer. hint ...) Hey! Did you grab the wrong IRISH FB/Grad/Fr Or. 93 Toyota Corrolla LE. 67K, Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­jacket at Senior Bar last 219-291-7153. great condittion, $8800.00 place in winter. Love and joy for Mom. Dad, and Jess-
PERSONAL
Wednesday? If so, I might have 219 656-4255 your baby all year long. Happy, car­You know, thanks for being such a your jacket, and you might have Apartment for Rent as of 06/01/98: ing professional couple would love cool family to live (and deal) with. mine, with my car keys! Please call a few blocks from ND. 1 ,600 sq It, 2 92 Lincoln Continental, 67K, UPS UPS UPS to provide a newborn with love, joy You make me want to be a better Barb at x3725 to remedy this bedrms, 1 full bath, large kitchen, excellent conditition $9300.00 and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1-person. Except with the frequent mixup. hardwood floors, washer/dryer, 219 656-4255 Shippin·g stuff home? 800-4S4·7011 Pin #4523 "nagging," the interest in fishing and 
refrigerator, stove. $600 p/mo. Call wasting time on Days of Our Lives. LOST-Carmen at 234-1744 or 631-3815. Gateway PC Laptop -Pentium 75, Best UPS rates on campus! ADOPTION IS LOVE I don't think I would have made it to ONE BLACK BOOKBAG DURING CDROM, Color Printer-$1900-Happily married NO Alumni couple, or through Notre Dame without your 
FRIDAY'S BOOKSTORE BASKET­SUMMER RENTAL Fully furnished Call Kristin 271-7458 COUNTRY HARVESTER with adopted 3 year old daughter, love and support. BALL ACTION. IF FOUND College Park Apt. X1-6714 LaFortune wants to shower a new baby with -Dan PLEASE CALL MATT@ 4-4774. Negotiable. May throw in 83 single and queen size beds, desk. love. Artistic full-time mom, ·athletic 
THANK YOU. Toyota. 243-4724 clothes cabinet. Call Dave @ 243-Extended hours during finals lawyer dad, and a sister to play Bryan, Julie B., Jen K., Julie K., 
1S68 Open Senior Week thru May 20 with. Friends on the swingset, trips Meg, Matt S. Matt L., HAC, Brad, LOST WOMEN'S GOLD AND SIL­Sublet 1 Bdr. Apt @ Turtle Creek to the zoo, grandma, play groups, Jamie, Kelly, Ann, Corrine, Tony A., VER SEIKO WATCH SINCE TUES· Apt for Jun&Jul. Call 271-1993 Medium-mini sized refrigerator­Happy (early) Birthday, CHINESE lullabies, too. This is a home where Mia, Kathy, Tim, Tony (the entire DAY APRIL 14th $50. Dorm bookshelf-$20 and LILY!!!! wishes come true. We'd like to get band, really), Chris, Tobin, Vitt, 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DINO ALL SIZE HOMES TVNCR portable stand­We love you! to know you. Call Shawn & Meg Roland, Jim, Courtenay, Barb, Joe, @4633 CLOSE TO CAMPUS $20.Molly.M.Gavin.1 @nd.edu 800-767-4257. Marc, Greg, Suzanne. Michelle, YOU'LL BE HAPPY!! 232-2595 Still need a job for 98·99??? Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. Jen, Mindy, Steve, Krupa, Kristi and 
1993 Red Mazda Miata, SOk,great Student Activities is still anyone else I may have inadver­
Oops! Have you found my sun­1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR condition,new soft top, warranty, cd, accepting applications for: Earn Free Computer, Monitor and tantly omitted (sorry) ­glasses in your blue book bag? CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 273-6834 Printer. Call:255-6455 Nice work. Together you have man­Please call Audi @ 3S40. 272-6551 Stepan Managers aged to make my Notre Dame 
black leather couch, 4-chair dining 24 Hr. Lounge Monitors SENIORS: FUTURE UNCLEAR? experience more than I ever could set, 1-coffee 2-side tables, great Cake Setvice Delivery GO TO PRESENTATION BY have imagined or hoped for. I can't 
WANTED 
4BR house close to NO. condition, 273·6S34 MICHAEL ASSOC. & interNET, remember when I've had so much Anybut. .. . . . . grad students only unfurnished. Apply NOW at 315 LaFortune. HOLlO A Y INN 4/30/9S, 8PM THEN fun. Forget tradition, football, family, 4 a roommate?-,., Ch1cago lookmg 233-1727 1 ,300 1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM CALL 408-534·1814 OR WRITE: and all that stuff. For me, Notre 
2 BATH CONDO VAULTED -EXTENDED FINALS HOURS -ACHACOSO, BOX 3004 STAN· Dame means you.
Call Mike X35S4 GREAT ROOM W/ FRPL FOR We're open longer during study FORD,CA 94309 All my gratitude, 
HOD:SL -­
Need a fulfilling job? N.D. families FURN W/0/ ()N.JWJ.,g~A PT SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX days and finals for your conve­Dan looking for responsible, caring, 6/1 GRAD PREF .. ,"11 235-3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY nience -until Midnight this Friday, PREGNANT? Loving, Catholic, energetic students to work w/ spe­(773)2S8-S822 --• 'l PM Saturday, and Sunday! Professional family with young son Enough of that sappy crap.
I THE COPY SHOP ,
cial needs children during summer SPACIOUS CONDO ~---­is desparately looking for sweet and next year. Ideal for anyone NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR walk to campus LaFortune Student Center baby brother or sister to complete No more pencils, no more books, --~· -"-t-COPY our loving; happy family. Please calf
interested in Education, Speech, NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF Diane Killilea 272-5444 no more teachers' dirty looks . us. We have so much love to share! EVER!
OT, or Sensory. All families are in NO 2773097 TEXTBOtJKG QOUGHG~-­1-:300-852-611S, access pin#OO
need of reliable, trusting students 97 Mitsu Eclipse, CD, pwr sunrf, EXCHANGED 7 DAYS A WEEK. I don't think Madeline Albright's life 
with a special interest in helping 3 BDRM HOME, SAFE AREA, loaded, alum whls, warranty. lrtere-~ kids. Please call Kim Lawton @ NEAR NO & UP MALL. Best Offer, Chris 291-4307 or 1-PANDORA'S BOOKS video 0 jj~?,~~:_uring a copy of a is more relevant to mine. 277-4552 or AVAIL 8//20-5/20. $1000 PER MO. 9795 NO AVE. & HOWARD ST. of 1998. Please car[~~·s Weekend 273-484S. & UTIL. 233-2342. 814-467-8024. ·• r.ollect "Hey, what's in the cooler?" CALL 407-673-1779. Livingrm, bedrm. and diningrm. ···cHICAGO ROOMMATE··· furniture for sale. Prices · l;~e last "Seinfeld" is gomg to make
You don't t)ave any more classes Looking for female roommate for Fum. Rm negotiable. Call 243-5719. and the onfy thing left to do is to SABOR LATINO ~ Lincolnpark area starting mid·June. Wash/Dry come see Shirley IS "trr..:-----­Call Amy x4633. Private Bath Laptop Computer: Acer 1.5-y old Thursday Apr 30 ··t coworker ever. 
Kitchen w/ ethernet card. warranty till UMPHREY's McGEE 9:30 pm · 12:30 am To the Disco Officel -­In-home Babysitter for 1 8 month $350/Eiec y-2000, $1199. #634-3992 Stella dance lessons start at 8 pm old: May-August. Home located 5 Karen 284-6257, 273-4517(eve) at To get jig -well, you know. mins. from campus. Flex. hrs:b/w minifrige wfrce trays Club Landing 
12-24 hrs p/ wk; may be div.ed 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. skiny bookshelves THE LANDING When you get to the top of the b/w 2 people. Call Carmen at 631-FURN. ALARM WID, $180/PER­small box fan SABOR LATINO mountain, keep climbing. 3815 or 234-1744. SON. 272-6551 other fun stuff TONIGHTI call Michelle x2514 


Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
.. 
Angels top Orioles 
for sixth in a row 
a three-run homer bv Harold
Baltimore loses 
Baines in the eighth, ·then got runners at second and third
1Oth game out 
with two outs before Mike Holtz retired ILJ. Surhoff on a grounde·r.
ofits last 13 
Troy Percival gave up an HBI groundout to Hafael Palmeiro
Associated Press in the ninth after Eric Davis' leadoff triple, but then got two
BALTIMOHE 
outs for his seventh save in
Jason Dickson earned his seven tries. The game ended
first win since August and 
on Garret Anderson's leapingCecil Fielder homered as the catch at the left field wall of
Anaheim Angels beat the 
Baines' fly ball.
struggling Baltimore Orioles 6­
Nerio Hodriguez, recalled
5 Tuesday night for their sixth 
from Triple-A Hoehester on
straight victory. 
Sunday, gave up four runs in 4Dickson (1-3 ), who came in 1-3 innings. Baltimore starters
with an 11.77 EHA, finally dis­
are 2-9 with an 8.64 ERA over
played the form that enabled 
thP last 13 games.
him to win 13 games and go to 
Anaheim got a run in the
the All-Star game as a rookie 
first when Darin Erstad
last season. The right-hander 
walked, stole second, took
allowed one run and eight hits 
third on a grounder and
in () 2-3 innings to record his 
scored on a groundout by Jim
first win in l 0 starts since Aug. 
Edmonds. An HBI double by
23. 
Gary DiSarcina and a sacrificeThe Angels' two-game sweep ny by Erstad made it 3-0 in theleft the Orioles with 10 losses second.
in their last 13 games. 
Anaheim pulled away in theBaltimore has lost its last five 
fifth. Hodriguez (0-1} left afterseries. 
giving up a one-out single to
Fielder's second homer of 
Dave Hollins, and Doug Johns
the season, a three-ruh shot, 
immediately yielded a single toput Anaheim ahead 6-0 in the 
Edmonds and Fielder's 365­fifth. He also doubled and 
foot homer to left.
walked three times in his 
Hobcrto Alomar had an HBI
fourth straight two-hit game. 
groundout in the Orioles' half.
The Orioles closed to 6-4 on 
THE OBSERVER: Putting the ''Jig" in "Jigg}'" for the last 30 years. We're ahead ofthe fads. 
Turtle Creek has "Two-RtFFtc" news! We now have two bedroom townhomes available for the 98-99 school year! Townhomes will be rent­ed on a first-come first-serve basis, so hurry in and pick up your application today! Also, we have a limited number of studio and 1 bed­rooms available for the 98-99 school year as well! Turtle Creek Apartments: 272-8124 

Associated Press 
points, all in the first three season alive. 
quarters, and Tim Hardaway Miami won for only the 
NEW YORK added 27. Murdock scored 11 fourth time in 26 games at 
The Miami Heat overcame as Miami had only three dou­Madison Square Garden, everything -foul trouble, a ble-figure scorers. where a vocal sellout crowd hostile crowd and Alonzo Mourning, in foul trouble for tried to urge the Knicks back. Mourning's lack of offense -the first three quarters, fin­But every time they got close, 
to regain control of their first­ished with seven points on 3-Miami had an answer. 
round series against the New 
for-13 shooting after leading It looked like the Knicks York Knicks. 
the Heat with 30 in Game 2. were finished after Chris 
The Heat took an early lead His made a huge contribu­Childs traveled with the ball and held on the rest of the way tion on the defensive end, with Mourning guarding him as they took a 2-1 series lead where he blocked a pair of with 1:28 left, New York's with a 91-85 victory Tuesday shots, forced a traveling call fourth consecutive botched night. and won a jump ball on four possession. But the Heat threw 
It brought a quick momen­consecutive possessions late in away the inbounds pass, and tum shift to a series that had the game to kill the Knicks' Chris Mills hit a 3-pointer to seemed to turn the Knicks' way chances to get close. make it 87-83. 
when they evened the series Allan Houston scored 27 for John Starks committed his Sunday in Miami. the Knicks, but he, too, failed sixth foul eighth seconds later, Miami even rubbed it in a lit­to register a point in the fourth but Hardaway missed both foul tle, too, as Eric Murdock made quarter. Larry Johnson added shots. Mourning then tied up 
a throat-slashing gesture late 22 points. Johnson in the lane and won in the fourth quarter -the The Knicks, trying to become the jump ball, setting up a 3­same one that Chris Childs of the first seventh seed from the pointer by Murdock with 35 New York made late in Game 2 
Eastern Conference ever to seconds left that made it 90­-after making a 3-pointer beat a No. 2 seed, will need to 83. with 4:15 left that put the Heat win at home Thursday and on Murdock slapped hands with ahead by nine. the road Sunday to keep their coach Pat Riley on his way

Voshon Lenard sco·red 28 
======~======~~ 
began with Tammy :'.......... Jamie. Yet there are a memories still to come. 
~"','} Go91l~il~}t 
· l 
Dana ·-"~·.,.··...--.,,,,.,. 
.. 
....., . 
... 
back downcourt, but the 
Knicks were still not done. 
Charlie Ward scored on a 
layup, and Houston then 
swiped an inbounds pass and 
had an open 3-pointer. He 
missed it badly, making him 0­
for-6 in the fourth quarter, and 
the Knicks were finally done. 
It was all Lenard and 
Houston in the early going. 
Lenard scored14 points in the 
first quarter as Mourning sat 
out with foul trouble, while the 
Knieks ran nearly every play 
for Houston. He shot 6-for-7 
for 18 points. 
P.J. Brown also drew three fouls, but the Heat weren't hurt offensively. Hardaway • scored 11 points in the second quarter and were shooting 68 percent at the half as they took a 56-44 lead into the locker room. 
New York started to mount a comeback early in the third after Brown quickly picked up his fourth foul. A 3-pointer by Houston pulled the Knicks to 60-55, but Hardaway was fouled on a 3-point attempt and made all three free throws to up the lead to eight. 
Lenard hit Miami's final two shots of the quarter. taking the air out of New York's attempts to pull closer than four. 

--"' ----....Or ""' cu. . ~ -\ ---. ,:. --· -:::sa u as
= 
page 22 Wednesday, April29, 1998
The Observer • SPORTS 
• NHl 
Senators hold off 'Devil' of a comeback for 4-3 win 
Associated Press 
KANATA, Ontario 
Daniel Alfredsson scored three goals as the unheralded Ottawa Senators beat the New Jersey Devils 4-3 Tuesday night to take a stunning 3-1 lead in their first-round playoff series. 
New Jersey almost came back in the game's final min­utes after trailing 4-1, scoring twice to terrify the capacity 
NHL Playoffs Brackets 

2 Down, 19 To Go••• 
j 
Happy 
21st Wiens!!! 
.. 
\ 
The Department of Mathematics Proudly Presents The GE Prizes for Excellence in Mathematics to 
Senior Honors Mathematics Major 
Jeffrey Beh 
Senior Mathematics Major 
Thomas Meyer 
Junior Honors Mathematics Major 
Helga Schaffrin 
Junior Mathematics Major 
Nathan McGregor 
and 
The Aumann Prize for First Year Students in Mathematics to 
David Swinarski 
crowd of 18,500 screaming fans. 
Devils star forward Doug Gilmour had a chance to tie the game in the last minute in a one-on-one situation with Ottawa goaltender Damian Rhodes. But his point-blank shot from the high slot hit Rhodes in the chest. 
Ottawa, which escaped with narrow overtime victories in Games 1 and 3, can wrap up the series with a victory in Game 5 at New Jersey on Thursday night. 
The Devils finished 24 points ahead of the eighth-place Senators and their first-round 
~onday •May n 
• / · startSat7Pm 
c;::· Luck SeniorsI 
• 

series was expected to end quickly, but not this way. 
Two of Alfredsson's goals came directly off miscues by New Jersey's best defensemen, 
while Devils goalie Martin Brodeur was outplayed by Rhodes. 
Jason York had the other Ottawa goal. 
q 
r.f' ______ ..... 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
•NBA 
'Interim' is over: Pistons make Gentry head coach 
Associated Press 
Gentry took over the Pistons San Antonio and Atlanta. on an interim basis after Doug The Pistons were expected to 
DETROIT 
Collins was fired Feb. 2. Detroit otTer Gf~ntry at least $1 million a The Detroit Pistons today took 
went 16-21 under Gentry, season for two years with an the interim from Alvin Gentry's including victories over playoff option for a third. 
coaching role. 
teams Chicago, Indiana, Miami, He became a front-runner for 

Demonstration of the Digital Library  Monday, May 4, 1998  
Project at the University of Illinois,  3:30-5 p.m.  
Grainger Engineering Library  Rm.-136 DeBartolo  
Recap and further discussion of  Tuesday, May 5, 1998  
the UIUC Digital Library Project,  9:00 a.m.-noon  
including lessons learned from  Rm. 122 COBA  
research and user perspectives  
Speakers:  
Bill Mischo-Engineering Librarian  
Tim Cole-System Librarian  

Grainger Engineering Library Information Center University of Illinois at Urbana-Campaign 
Sponsors: University Committee on Libraries College of Engineering University Libraries of Notre Dame 

the coaching job after receiving the backing of Grant Hill and Joe Dumars late in the season. 
Gentry met Monday with team owner Bill Davidson and vice president of basketball opera­tions Rick Sund. 
"I think it's an incredible honor for me," Gentry said. "After what happened last year and the close losses we had down the stretch, I think not only am I ready, I think the players are ready to come back and to show all the close games that we lost we'll have an opportunity to win those things." 
"I support Alvin wholeheart­edly," Dumars, the 35-year-old captain, has said. "lie has stepped into a very diflicult situ­ation and proven to be a calm­ing influence for everybody." 

Enjoy 
Flexibility & Growth 

The world is full of exciting options for new grads. But what ahout two years after graduation? Five Years? Ten? When you join the Community Hospitals network, you open the door to a lifetime of opportunity in one of Central Indiana's largest health care provider networks. 
We offer many employment and scheduling options to meet the changes in your life: 
• 
Full-and part-time opportunities 

• 
Opportunity training centers-We pay you while you train to meet future needs in a variety of specialties. 

• 
Unit-based PRN positions 

• 
Weekend options 

• 
Seasonal staffing 

• 
Physician private practice offices 

• 
Home health 


Bring your skills to Community Hospitals Indianapolis. Our ongoing educational opportunities and our many flexible scheduling options set us apart, plus you'll enjoy an excellent salary (including shift differentials) and beneftt package. Please mail or fax your resume to any of our facilities listed below. Learn more ahout us by visiting our web site at www.commhospindy.org 
Communi~· Hospital North Community Hospital East 7150 Clearvista Drive 1500 North Ritter Avenue Indianapolis, IN 46156 Indianapolis, IN 4611 9 Fax (317) 588-7878 Fax (317) 351-7726 
Communi~· Hospital South Community Hospital Anderson 1401 E. County Line Road South 1515 North Madison Avenue Indianapolis, IN 46117 Anderson, IN 46011 Fax (317) 887-7197 Fax (76Y7 646-8067 
An Equal Opportunity Employer with an Affirmative Action Plan. 

Patient-focused medicine 
J 
'I 
'. 
fl 
a L. 

. " 



l 
I! 
jl 
~. -· 
.) 
,) 
.!J 
~i.I 
i I 
J 

CONGRATULATIONS 
LONDON PROGRAM STUDENTS 
in the 
Class of '98 
--~-~-------··----­
.,..... Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS 
•NBA 
Hawks avoid elimination, win 96-64 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Once again, Atlanta wasted no 
time building a double-figure 
lead over the Charlotte llornets. 
This time, the Hawks didn't blow 
it. 
They made history instead. 
Playing with energy and emo­tion that was missing their first two games, the Hawks avoided elimination in the first round and routed Charlotte 96-64. The Hornets matched the lowest­scoring playoff game in NBA his­tory. 
Charlotte, now leading the best-of-5 series 2-1, tied the record for fewest points set by Portland in a 1996 postseason game at Utah and equaled by Orlando against Miami last year. 
The Hawks, led by Mookie Blaylock with 16 points and Steve Smith with 15, had their largest playoff victory since the franchise moved to Atlanta in 1968. The previous mark was a 23-point rout of Indiana in 1994. 
Game 4 in the best-of-5 series 
is Friday night at the Georgia 
Dome. If the Hawks win again, 
the deciding game would be 
Sunday at Charlotte. 
The Hawks were having fun 
again after two dismal games in 
Charlotte. 
Tyrone Corbin punched his fist in the air after hitting a 3-pointer late in the first half when Atlanta was pulling away. Blaylock had a big grin when Alan Henderson swished a 30-footer that didn't count because the whistle had blown. Pig Miller pointed his fin­ger toward 19,745 screaming fans after finishing off a drive. 
All 12 Atlanta players got on the court, and six scored in dou­ble figures. 
In Game 1 at Charlotte, the Hawks led 41-26 in the second quarter, only to lose 92-85. In the second game, Atlanta squan­dered a 13-point lead in the first quarter and was beaten 97-87. 
8 pm, washington hall 
But the Hawks showed they 
had some staying power with the 
series on their home court. 
After building a 30-18 lead at 
the end of the first quarter on 
Chucky Brown's 3-pointer, 
Atlanta never let the Hornets get 
closer than seven the rest of the 
way. 
The Hawks outscored 
Charlotte 16-4 in the final six 
minutes of the first half, taking a 
51-32 lead to the locker room 
when Blaylock hit a 3-pointer 
just before the horn sounded. 
Vlade Divac tried to rally his teammates, shouting loudly, "Come on, let's go!" But no one was listening. 
The Hornets missed their first five shots in the second half and wound up scoring only 12 points in the third quarter, matching the lowest-scoring period by an opponent in Atlanta's playoff his­tory. 
The period finished off with Chucky Brown hitting a driving layup, then Eldridge Recasner coming up with a steal to set up Christian Laettner's 21-footer, giving the Hawks a 7 4-44 lead. 
Atlanta shot 50 percent from the field, compared with 43.6 KAT Photo percent in the first two games. Anthony Mason goes up for a layup in Charlotte's loss to Atlanta last night. 
MAKE YOUR DESTINATION . .. UNION STATION! 
233-2876 
WEDDING RECEPTIONS  GRADUATION PARTIES  
REHEARSAL DINNERS  BANQUETDINNERS  
DANCES  CLASS REUNIONS  
patesGreat . ble~ ;\vatlCl still  . Caff.JO,. z'?/0,./Jzat:.zo11.1  

Bye, Bye. 
251-0674 
MATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAU RANT 
•Authentic• Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 

~I 
~ -; ~... . . --' ' .. _.., 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April29, 1998 
~-----------------------------------~~~~~~~~~------------------------------~ 
\ 
i 
! 
I 
,( 
I ' 
,.l 
I 
'I'l 
., 
I:·I (· 
11 
li 
II': 
[ ''\
'f
il. 
!'I'('( 
t (I t 
I, 
.;,..., 
II 
, 
i 
'i 
~ 
I 

~·· 
tl 
~ ~ 
(1/
(,) 
·.~! 
,, 
(' 
I 
j 
~"'~ 
1,lj
I 
! ; .! 
I 
j' 
l' 
l 
l: 
Fo0 tbaII 
continued from page 36 
of no consequence," Davie said. "I am not worried about the results." 
Davie remains confident that his squad will surprise people this fall, despite the outcome of Saturday's game. This spring, Irish football is changing rapid­ly. 
With the loss of nine starters, Davie is forced to reshape and mold his team. Option football promises to bring about a tremendous change in the face of the offense. 
Jackson offers a facet which former quarterback Ron Powlus could not: He can run the football. This became evi­dent in Saturday's scrimmage when he took the initiative on three occasions. 
"If you look at our offense, I think it is obvious why we need to have some option football," Davie said. "I think that it is certainly going to be a way for us to even things out scheme wise against opponents that want to come up and crowd the line of scrimmage. Hopefully, it will give us the chance to be more productive than last year. Third, it will allow us to take advantage of our quarter­backs." 
Davie remains positive about the strength of the offensive line. While the starting lines looks solid, the question remains: Who will back them up. 
Senior captain Mike Rosenthal made a switch to tackle instead of guard. Taking his position at guard will be fel­low senior Tim Ridder, who started in three games at tight end in the '97 season. 
Anchoring the recieving corp will be the top two recievers from the fall season. Seniors Malcolm Johnson and Bobby Brown take the majority of the work on their shoulders for the second season in a row. 
"What you are trying to do right now is find players and develop players," Davie said. "I think that with the way spring practice is, only 15 days, 3 of 
*The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98..'99 School Year Summer Rentals June..August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
those days in shorts and a con­trolled amount of hitting on the other 12 days in pads, you real­ly have to be careful to try not to do too many things." 
Some of the questions which remain involve the injured. Defensive end, senior Lamont Bryant, sat out due to a knee injury. Also sitting out were key layers, junior defensive end Brad Williams. junior kicker Jim Sanson and junior split end Raki Nelson. Many Irish units can not take shape without these players suiting up for action. Each could play a cru­tial role in the fall. 

One of the major problems hindering the Irish is the length of spring football practice. It is such a short time that no major changes can truly be accom­plished; with limited time and the amount of injuries which plague the Irish this spring, many questions still remain. 

GORCH GAMES ROOM 
,5atunJay, Matj .2 froom 5:()0 PM to 8:00 f-J~v'1 
FREE FREE FREE 
1··-~n?e r.\_,ol, fpee foosball, rPl?e Video c;ornes, rree Food! 

-


................s.........a•s........a..........a~a..
s~==----.s---------------------·--­
Wednesday, April29, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS work that way, but that is your NCAA qualifying high goal." jumper Jennifer
Track 
The best chances for individ­Engelhardt. Other ual victories for Notre Dame potential contenders
continued from page 36 
should come from senior cap­for titles will be the 4 x tance runners in the indoor tain and all-American Errol 100 meter relay team season." Williams in the 110-meter hur­of Williams, Marshaun 
The Fighting Irish will need dles, cross country and track West, Kevin Reher, and all of their athletes to pull all-American Jason Hexing in Chris Cochran, sprint­through with their best perfor­the 5,000 meters and 10,000 ers Cochran and Carri mances in order to improve on meters, cross country and Lenz, and West in the the indoor team finishes. indoor track all-American long jump. "Hopefully, this is the meet JoAnna Deeter and NCAA qual­"Seeing how this is a 
you've peaked for, and you 'II ifier Alison Klemmer in the last hurrah, we'll make have your best performance," 10,000 meters, indoor Big East one last big push at a said sprints and hurdles coach champion pole vaulter Mike Big East championship John Millar. "It doesn't always Brown, junior Nadia Schmiedt and hope and pray that 
in the 400-meter hurdles, and it works out this time," said Williams. 
"For this week, my goal is to win the 10,000 and the 5,000," said Hexing, a senior captain who has already qualified for nationals in the 10,000 meters. "I've won the 10,000 the last two years and the 5,000 two years ago. I think for us to win the meet, everyone is going to have to come up big,
and for me, that'S The Observer/Joe Stark going to mean winning Pole vaulter Mike Brown hopes to capture the outdoor title at the Big East meet. in both events." 
its best shot at winning the "At the Big East, we're going
Notre Dame will put its ath­
championship on the men's to try to do two things," said
letes in the events which they 
side and getting a decent show­distance coach Tim Connelly.
have the bes;t potential for 
ing out of the women's team. "One is to score some points,
scoring poirits in order to have 
and the other is, for some peo­ple, to try to get some NCAA­qualifying times." 
Schmiedt, who has demon­strated the potential to qualify for nationals in the 400 meter hurdles, said, "I want to try to 
get a good time in, obviously mc\ke the finals, and then try to get a qualifying time in for nationals. I'd like to get in the .. low 58's this year." 
GRADUATES 
After the Big East meet, the Irish will drop their numbers significantly, with only the individuals with a legitimate 
Look behindyou and remember where 
it is that you came from. 
shot of qualifying for nationals remaining on campus. They will have several weeks to
Look in front ofyou and see where it is that you 
qualify for the NCAA outdoor championships to be held in Buffalo on June 6-9. Williams
want to go. 
has automatically qualified in the 110 meter hurdles, and Hexing and Klemmer will rep­
Look down that long and winding road and ask 
resent the Irish in the 10,000 meters. "It would be really nice to go
yourself.. 
for the big one at nationals," said Williams. ''I'd like to ltave a fair shot at winning." 
"Right now, we've got three people in the meet," said 
Piane. "We've clearly got the potential to get three more [Brown, Schmiedt, and Deeter). Three men and three women would be great. That would be some serious Sears Cup points, which would mean a lot to the athletic department." 
Besides these athletes, Engelhardt is very close to qualifying in the high jump, Hexing may make it into the 5,000 meters, and West could be selected in the long jump. Deeter was an indoor all­American, but has only recent­ly come back to competition 
How the heck am I gonna get there? 
Auto Loans 
after a leg injury. "Mike Brown and Jenny Engelhardt are very capable of
First Mortgages 
qualifying for nationals," said field events coach Scott Winsor. "Marshaun West defi­
Internet Banking 
nitely has the ability and the talent and the speed. Once he gets it together mentally, he'll
24-Hour Loan-By-Phone 
be in good shape. He has an outside shot. The mark you need to qualify is always a
Touch-Tone Teller 
guessing game. For Jennifer, it's just a matter of hitting one." 
Scoring points at the NCAA 
championships would demon­
strate the quality of Notre 
For People. Not For Profit. 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 
Dame's track and field team, and legitimize its claim to
www.ndfcu.org 
St. 
being in the upper-tier of com­petition among American uni­
LENDER 
Independent of the Uni\'crsity 
versities. 


_____ --~---~----~~~c~-.-----~~~~~------~~....~.................~u..~_-....~..~~s....~•a..~..a~.-..•ES~L.......al...d...GI 
page 28 
Baseball 
continued from page 36 
forward." 
Starter Chris McKeown (4-2) picked up the loss. allowing all four Spartan runs on nine hits in four and two-thirds innings, -with two walks and four strikeouts. 
But McKeown lost more than just his second game with the poor outing yester­day. Mainicri and his staff were considering the junior lefty as the fourth starter in the upc<~ming Big East tourna­ment. 
"I was very disappointed in the way [McKeown] pitched, quite frankly," Mainieri said. "I think he probably pitched his way out of that fourth starter role. We'll just have to decide what to do once we get to the tournament." 
In contrast, Miehigan State's starter Mark Mulder had the scouts drooling with his 95 mile-per-hour fastball. Mulder (6-4) struck out five, while holding the Irish scoreless and hitless in four innings of work. 
"He was a tough pitcher; he's got some good stuff," senior J .J. Brock said about Mulder. "But he's hittable, like anybody else. We had a couple chances [to score] ... and we had other opportuni­ties against other pitchers too. That wasn't it." 
It was the absence of clutch 
hitting and the presence of 
several mental errors that left 
the Irish on the losing end 
yesterday. 
In the Irish half of the third, 
the team put its first runn'er 
on base, as Dan Leatherman 
drew a four-pitch walk. A sac­
rifice bunt attempt failed and 

(;  
{  
I  
~  
I .,i  '· ,­ 
(  
(  
l  
!  ..,.-_  
'  
}  
I  ~  
<  
)  
(  
1  

l 
r./ ( 

---·----------· ---_____,...., 

the next batter struck out, before Allen Greene legged out a dropped third strike. But a deep fly ball ended the Notre Dame threat. 
Notre Dame stranded anoth­er runner in the fifth, as Todd Frye slapped a two-out single up the middle. 
The Irish got on the board in the sixth, as Greene lined a leadoff single to center, advanced to second when Brock walked, and advanced to third on an errant throw. Right fielder Jeff Felker plated Greene with a single. one of only four Notre Dame hits. 
"We made some mistakes with fundamentals, a couple mental errors, that ended up hurting us," Brock said. "In a close ballgame, you've got to be in the game mentally." 
Among the disappointment, freshman hurler Aaron Heilman continued to be a bright spot for Notre Dame, pitching four scoreless innings to extend his streak to 32.1 innings in 18 appearances. Heilman lowered his ERA to 
The Observer • SPORTS 
0.97 while fanning eight Spartans, and working out of a one-out, bases-loaded jam in the seventh. 
"Not only does he have tremendous talent, but he's a competitor. He's a bulldog out there' on the mound," Mainieri said. "He's actually a better pitcher with runners in scor­ing position." 
Despite the loss, the Irish (35-11) have to look ahead, especially with the most important stretch of the con­ference regular-season on the horizon. 
Notre Dame hosts Chicago Thursday and then awaits West Virginia, ranked fourth in the Big East. The Mountaineers bring a 10-5 conference record to town for three games over the week­end. 
"We've got a game Thursday, and then a big series this weekend," Mainieri said, "so we just have to pick ourselves up by our boot­straps and come back fighting the rest of this week." 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998 

Porzel \Vas 8-for-19 (.421) for the week, with one hon1c run, and tean1-high totals in doubles (5) and RBI ( 1 0).. l-Ie also had an .842 slugging percentage for the vvcck. Porzcl delivered a two-out, tvvo-run double to lead the Irish to an 1 1-3 victory over Seton Hall. 
Big East Rookie of the Week 
r-------·---­

B~XESPJ 

Call 277·5656 for free pick up at your roon1 -on or off can1pus. 
Boxes Plus 
·the lower priced shipper· 
5622 Crrape Road Wilshire Plaza near Sam's Club 
'"---------------------·----·--~--~ 
,,_ 
a· 
~~:,­
,. 


·-.:.,. 
\1: 
c. 
~" 
'. 
' 
~-·· 
. 
~~-: 
.... . 
~­
:fo 

I 



This public service announcement Courtesy ofKevirz & Kyle's 
Mom&Dad 




'I
. .. 
\Vednesday, April 29, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 
999 Cass. 


Bran Van 3000 
Glee 
Obituary 
Dead 


The Devil You Know Hope And Dream Explosion 
1199 

... 

_.....,.,....____________ 
i r 
I 
l, 
page 30 The Observer· SPORTS 


Softball 
continued from page 36 
the game and her injuries were treated. 
It was more of the same in the nightcap, with the gritty Sycamores still trying to. walk away with a partial victory. This time around, however, it was thP visitors that drew first blood. 
In the third inning, Sycamore Becky laccino sin­gled to left center, advanced to second on a single, and 
used  two  errors  to  reach  
home and  take an  early 1-0  
lead.  

In the fourth, senior Kelly Rowe tied the game up with a pop fly that scored Mathison. 
The contest then turned into a pitching duel, with both teams jockeying for the lead. The game went into extra innings, where the Sycamores matched the Irish's every move until the ninth. 
Korrie Allen led off the inning with a stand-up dou­ble, and scored on a single that turned -into a double because of a fielding error in the outfield. 
Notre Dame was led in the second game by Giampaolo, who went 2-4 from the plate 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
and had the game-winning hit that brought home Korrie Allen. Lemire went 2-3 for the game with her ninth double of the season, while senior Kelly Nichols pitched all nine innings to improve her record to 6-4 on the year. 
With the sweep, Notre Dame extends their winning streak to 17 games, two shy of the school record. The Irish will have a chance to break the record this weekend, as they host the Big East Tournament at Ivy Field. The first obstade in the team's path is Conncctieut, who have already succumbed to Notre Dame twice this season. 
Despite having the home field advantage, Miller still thinks the close proximity to exams will make it difficult to prepare. 
"We're playing during study days, which means that all of the student body will be up all night, and sleeping during the day. The study habits of the college students will not be the same as for us, and that's going to be a tough chal-· lenge." 
For now, the clash between the Irish and the Huskies is set to begin on Saturday at noon, shortly'after the 10 a.m. matchup between Boston College and Rutgers. 


Please recycle The Observer. It's the last one you'll have to do until A u G u s T '• 
Who Takes Notre Dame's Mission of ' ' Co-Education Seriously? 
Who Works Hard to Improve the Environment for Women on the Notre Dame Campus? 
.. ·'·· 
The Gender Studies Program Supports 
.. . 
The Women's Resource Center 
l. : 
lj ' 
l 
i 
-I • I '• • • • ,. • I .: • 0 • ~ • 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 31 ... 


Arthur Andersen 
Welcomes the Following Graduates of the University of Notre Dame 






Jessica H. Acklin 
Phoenix-Tucson 
Christopher C. Alberta 
New York 
Kathryn E. Alexander 
Minneapolis 
Heidi E. Altman 
Denver 
Erika L. Anderson 
Chicago 
Nerea Arrien 
Chicago 
Thomas W. Asci 
Boston 
Marie J. Athaide 
New York 
Gwendolyn Bartscherer 
Chicago 
Daniel M. Berens 
Chicago 
Christopher A. Brown 
Chicago 
Daniel C. Buhrfiend 
Chicago 
Matthew J. Campbell 
Denver 
Paul E. Chadwick 
Milwaukee 
Sarah E. Collins 
Boston 
Cheryl L. Davies 
Orlando 
Daniel R. Delaney Jr. 
Chicago 
Megan K. Dittman 
New York 
Carole Anne Dominello 
Philadelphia 
James R. Doyle 
Dallas-Ft. Worth 
to Our Firm 
Gina K. Drew 
Chicago 
Molly K. Duffy 
Chicago 
Michael P. Feehan 
Philadelphia 
James P. Fletcher 
Denver 
Kyle L. Freeland 
Chicago 
James 0. Freeman 
Chicago 
Holly M. Gnat 
Chicago 
Kenneth M. Hartman 
Chicago 
Michael R. Healy 
Minneapolis 
Theodore J. Heidloff 
Chicago 
Carolyn F. Hellrung 
Chicago 
Jill 0. Jamieson 
Chicago 
Laurie A. Kelley 
Tampa 
Shin J. Kim 
Chicago 
Paul E. King 
Chicago 
Julie A. Klusas 
Indianapolis 
Melissa A. McAllister 
Washington D. C. 
Sean C. Murphy 
Chicago 
San Francisco 

Benjamin S. Nelsen 
Minneapolis 
Anthony J. Netto 
New York 
Venta 0. Norvilas 

•:_
Chicago 
Robert M. Novak 
Chicago 
Christine L. Oberholzer 
Chicago 
Raymond J. Petrino 
New York 
Katherine M. Phelps 
Chicago 
Tracy M. Raley 
Chicago 
Tricia L. Renze 
Chicago 
Sara D. Rinke 
Chicago 

Cari L. Rockwell 
Phoenix-Tucson 
Nicole L. Ruttura 
New York 
David B. Saucier 
Chicago 

.l/lo 
Stephanie C. Smith 
Chicago 
Kathleen A. Sullivan 
New York 
Karen E. Thompson 
St. Louis 
Mark F. Turner 
Pittsburgh 
Khanh D. Vo 
Chicago 
Jeffrey D. Ward 
Chicago 
Emily A. Whalen 
Atlanta 



--'!!="---~----~-~----~
,, . 
l:\ 
,. 
((·~ 
~· 
., 
Wednesday, April 29, 1998
.., ~ page 32 The Observer • SPORTS 
• i\1AJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Estes beats 
Pittsburgh for first 'W' 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
Shawn Estes, regaining last year's winning form, outdueled Francisco Cordova with 6 1/3 innings of two-hit pitching as 
the San r--~-....,..,.,...~,.,..,=7"""""'.., 
francisco 
Pirates 1
Giants beat the Pitts-
Giants 2 
b u r g h ...__-------~--l ~. Pirates 2-1 Tuesday. Jeff Kent and J .T. Snow each
f#.... 
hit home runs, the first allowed
l 
this season by Cordova, who shut out the Giants and Estes 7­
t 
0 in his previous start Thursday
I 
at Three Rivers Stadium.~ '~ Estes {1-4), a 19-game winner
l]) 
u 
\ who made the All-Star team in his first full major league sea­son last year, retired 15 straight after allowing Tony Womack's single to start the I ~: game. He struck out six and ( ' walked four in snapping a career-high four-game losing
F' l streak and helping San Francisco win its season-high
Ill ~ ,;· . 
fourth straight, the last two ljl ~: against Pittsburgh. The Giants defense and bullpen blew the shutout in the
' ~ 
ninth. After Robb Nen loaded the bases with no outs, catcher II -' Brent Mayne dropped a foul
l 
r ~-­
r 
pop by pinch-hitter Mark Smith.!' 1 Smith followed with a sacrifice ' I( fly to score the Pirates only run. Nen then retired the final two
tL ~. 
batters for his fourth save.
I(){ ( 
I '\t f 
In the third inning, players
jj 
from both teams left their dugouts after a brushback pitch by Cordova that knocked Estes
!! 
down. Home plate umpire Frank
·m 
Pulli stepped in to warn Estes
l 
not to retaliate and then turned to the Pittsburgh dugout &nd warned the Pirates about throwing at Giants batters. 

Estes ended the at-bat by grounding out, tossing his bat away in disgust, and the inci­dent appeared to be over. 
But Barry Bonds and Pirates hitting coach Lloyd McClendon began jawing at each other from their respective dugouts. Bonds took a few steps toward McClendon and the Pirates coach gestured at him to keep 
-coming before teammates restrained Bonds and Pirates manager Gene Lamont calmed McClendon and the incident ended quietly. 
Cordova allowed six hits in seven innings while striking out
A..,.._ 
l' one and walking one.
f 
r Snow, breaking an 0-for-13
l: l slide, hit his first homer of the season in the second. The oppo­
~ 
; site field shot cleared the left field wall and ended a 12­inning scoreless streak by Cordova.
r~A,__,., Snow, who entered the game in a 2-for-34 stretch, finished 3­for-4. 
~~ c. 
·/ 
Kent, whose ninth-inning
{" 
I I 
bases-loaded single drove in the 
winning run in San Francisco's
! 
I 
6-5 win over Pittsburgh on Monday night, connected for his
.l 
I rl) second homer in the sixth, dri­
l'1 
ving Cordova's 1-0 offering into~I the left field seats. Estes was lifted with one out 
:I(, 
t 
in the seventh after walking the 
bases loaded. Julian Tavarez
'I 
~ 
li 
came on and worked out of the 1'. , jam by getting pinch-hitter 
t( ~~ 
I" 
• I 
It Turner Ward to line out to third
l; 
J' baseman Bill Mueller, who then ' ' L ~ : touched the bag to double the '· t runner off. 
•. 
' 
I 
) 
' 
( .l 
ALL THE SUBWAY SUBS, CHIPS, 
YOUR HANDS ON... FIRST COME, FIRST SERVE! I 

THURSDAY APRIL 30th STONEHENGE 
11 aln ·1 pm 
ONLY $~.00 

CHECKn OUT 0\\lTHEWEB. 
www.ford.com 
$400 CASH BONUS 
. toward purchase or lease* 
1998 Ford Escort ~ 

You've hit the books. Now it's time to hit the road. Ford can help. College seniors and grad students get $400 cash back* toward the purchase or Ford Credit Red Carpet Lease of any eligible Ford or Mercury. It's academic: pocket the cash, grab life by the wheel. For more College Graduate Purchase Program info, call1-800-321-1536 or visit the Web at www.ford.com 


llmllll t1J\ _:.:····-·'...
0··
lnnl I '\eKWfiY .,. <-· .,... 
'To be eHgible, you must graduate with an associate's or bachelor's degree between 1 0/1196 and 1/5199 or be currently enrolled in graduate school. You must purchase or lease your new vehicle between 1/4/98 and 1/5/99. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restrictions apply. See your dealer for details. 


Wednesday, April 29, 1998 page 33 
The Observer· SPORTS 
-
• SAINT MARY's TENNIS 
Belles heading to first 
conference tournament 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO a conference before, but we're going Sporrs Writer to make the best of the situation." A big obstacle for the Belles will be 
As conference playoffs approach this the inexperience of the team in this Friday and Saturday. the Saint Mary's type of tournament play. The advan­tennis team is ready to make a tage that the team has though is that remarkable impression. they know exactly what teams they 
The Belles are competing in their will be competing against and they 
first-ever conference playoffs. The have a sense of exactly what they tournament will take place at Hope have to do to come out on top. College and although details of the "We know what we're up against 
tournament are sketchy, the team is and I think it's better to be the under­prepared for anything, even compet­dogs," commented Vales. ing without a coach. The No. 1 doubles team of Vales and 
Coach Robin Hyrcko has been away Gemmer definitely has the ability to and the weight of the team has been take of the conference title in their placed on the shoulders of its two cap­name. The dynamic duo has only lost 
tains, junior Betsy Gemmer and two matches all season. The ladies at sophomore Katie Vales. But the job is the No. 1 spot are eager to take the nothing that the two captains can not court against rival Hope College, who 
handle. they know they never should have lost "The competition will be pretty to earlier in the season. tough, but we are just going to go in "We have come such a long way and do our best," said Vales. "It's diffi-since we played Hope," said Gemmer. The Belles will be without their head coach in this weekend's tournament at Hope College. cult because we've never competed in "We should've beat them and if we get 
a chance to play them again, that is exactly what we are going to do." 
These confident words from Gemmer can definitely be backed up by her agressive play, demonstrated throughout the season. Vales and Gemmer make a well balanced team and
Here's Proof at A 
complement each other's styles, making them strong and solid. 
The two know each other's personalities from a friendship that they have built both on
College Degree 
and off the court. This friend­ship and teamwork have undoubtedly carried over to their play. Vales and Gemmer contribute their teamwork as a result of their previous· year's
Can ReallyPay Off. 
experience playing together at the No. 3 doubles spot. "We know each other's gameRight Now Recent College Graduates Get VOO Off and we know each other's per­
sonalities," said Gemmer. "When one of us is down ·or
Every New Dodge. In Addition To Most Other Current Offers.* 
gets frustrated the other always seems to pick up the slack and
Dodge Neon Coupe starts as low as stay calm. It seems like other teams seem to count us out during warm ups, but we go in pumped, aggressive and confi­dent and just do what we do best." 
Besides their skills, the duo
(or get low J.9%APR 
seems to put a little of their
for 
up to 60 months)t luck into whether or not they win the racket toss at the begining of the match. 
"Usually it's good when we lose the toss, because we Cab-forward design, dual airbags, 16-valve, 132-horsepower engine. More horse­always seem to win when that happens," said Vales. "Betsy
power and interior room than Honda Civic, Toyota Corolla, or Saturn Coupe. 
always lih:s to use seven balls. I think it's her lucky number."
Dodge Dakota Sport Vales and Gemmer will be placed among the top four teams at the conference for the No. 1 doubles spot. Their first match will be crucial because a win will put them in the posi­tion to compete for the top spots. 
A loss in the first match will place them in a concellation bracket to compete for fifth or sixth place. 
Leadership will also be a big factor for Vales and Gemmer this weekend.
JD. Power and Associates "Most Appealing Compact Pickup."*** 
"It's tough not having a
Plus, Dakota Sport comes with aluminum wheels, AM/FM cassette stereo, 
coach, but we're going to try40/20/40 seat with mini business console and more. and help everyone with their matches," said Vales. Don't forget to ask about '98 college graduate finance plans available "Hopefully everyone won't be on the court at the same time
to eligible customers through Chrysler Credit. C 
so the team as a whole can help each other. Betsv and I will def­initely need to step up on the leadership role, but we're real­
~~The NewDodge 
ly confident about everything." Confidence is certianly key
See The Friendly Dodge Dealer NearYou for the Belles this weekend, but 
enthusiasm is possibly even 


*Ask for eligibility reqUirements. Not available with certain other offers. **MSRPs after $400 College Graduate Cash Back more kev. (and after S1,500 national cash back on Neon). Includes destination. Excludes tax. ttg",•/60" mo. financing =$17.48 per mo. Gemm~r put it best. per $1,000 financed for qualified buyers with 10•,. down. 1.9.1•/60 mo. financing is in lieu of $1,500 cash back. ttssoo MSRP 
''I'm ready to win," shP said. 
discount on select V-6 models. ***J.D. Power and Associates 1997 APEAL study, 8utomotive Eerformance, .Execution and .L,ayoutSM Study based on 29,187 consumer responses. Always use seat belts. 




Wednesday, April 29, 1998
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
.~ 
;l/il
;ul.. 
. ' 

RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are 
chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
~~ 
1.' 
It 
! 

Sean Sharpe is a senior accounting major from Philadelphia, PA. During his four years at Notre Dame, Sharpe has been an active participant in every facet of RecSports. Sean has been a member of the Boxing Club since his sophomore year and served as an officer this year. He took his boxing knowledge and skill into a new ring this year and served as an instructor for the Knockout Workout fitness class. Sharpe has also participated in a variety of intramural sports including soccer, lacrosse and cross country. To round out his RecSports "career" Sean was a consistent top finisher and winner of several Domer and Christmas in April runs. After graduation, Sean will be moving back to Philadelphia to start his job with Ernst & Young. 
Recipients receive <:rt-w.~ merchandise from the 
...... 
VARSITY SHOP 
...... 
"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
~ 

VARSITY SHOP 
~ 
"Specializing in Authentic 
www.nd.edu/--recs ort 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Upcoming Events & Deadlines 
RSRC Finals Week Hours Monday -Thursday 6:30am -1 1 :OOpm
I 
Friday 6:30am -7:00pm Saturday 9:00am-7:00pm Sunday 1 2:00pm -6:00pm 
RSRC Senior Week Hours Monday -Friday 6:30am -7:00pm Saturday 8:00am -3:00pm Sunday 1O:OOam -6:00pm 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive <:rt-w.~ 
,....... "' . . & It-
merchandise courtesy of \,.&...--~~ and the located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The
viT'io; 
dl '­
ViT'io; 
1s open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 

, r J 
. , r ' 
' (i 
( i 

Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 35 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

DAN SULLIVAN YOURHOROSCOPE Aries: Trust your experi­ence over whatever is being said, especially by salespeo­ple or politicians. Also, be wary of following a friend's lead this evening. All the information isn't in yet. Taurus: One of your friends seems to be going through an upsetting situa­tion. You might be called on to provide financial assis­tance or a place to stay this weekend. Gemini: The first thing you have to deal with this morning is an older person's confusion. He or she means well, but sometimes causes problems. Be on the lookout so you can stay out of the way. · Cancer: You'll hear a lot of interesting things via the grapevine, but don't believe them all. Somebody who's spreading rumors has a per­sonal agenda. Check the facts before you repeat any­thing. Leo: There's one hassle after the other all day long. Luckily, most of them don't affect you directly. Your 
..; 
assignment is to provide sta­
c: 
THEN COULD I S~OOT 
bility in an otherwise unsta­
! 
EMPLOYEE5 WHO MAKE
•
u 
ble world. 
.., 
PERSONAL PHONE C.c\ll5?
c: 
Virgo: Try to avoid an
... 
(/) 
argument with your mate 
~ 
first thing this morning.
• 
... ~ • You're nervous and irritable 
.., 
and worried about lots of
~ 
things. But you can over­power all that. 
:I" 
~ 


ALTHOUGH '<OUR COMPANY IS VERY PROFITAe,l[ 1 l WOULDN'T BE MUCH OF 
A. CONSULTANT IF I 

"' "i 
YOU RECOMMEND .JAILING OUR OMClU05MAN AND DECLARING MARTlt\L LAW ... MAKE5 SENSE. 

g 
..­
"' 
~ 

L-----.;::;:QI;~...;...;..::...;...a.....JL...-....&....--1~'--~~----....;:::;;;...._,_......::::_~ 
sa 8.&0. et al. 59 Look (over) 61 Arrives at 
horizontally 64 Mideast carrier 65 Outdoor 
festivity 66 Surprise tennis shot 67 Bargain hunters' haunts 
DOWN 
1 Compare 21946 
Wimbledon champ Betz 3 Completely 
gone 4 Subdued color 5 Aunt of an old 
folk song 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Lead 10 Beginning of a conclusion 14 Lottery winner's need 16 Biblical pronoun 17 Anonymous 18 Event for a foxhound 19 Second-century date 20 Forest denizen 21 They're encountered in close encounters 23 Sound unit 24 Tightly curled 2& Nick at Nire offering 28 Meyers of "Kate &Allie" 
29 Donald Duck, to Huey, Dewey and Louie 
30 Closed sac 31 Sen. Hatch 33 Fareham fuel 35 Like paper 37 Full of signs 39 Held one's 
ground 42 Most thirsty 46 Thirst for 47 Moments 49"Look-!" 
(showoff's words) so Musical dir. 51 Silence 53 Innocent 54 Alert, for short 55 Samovar serving 56 Altar answer 
6 "Three cheers" 
~~uti.<··>······· ·?•••;)•.-·....<·:·..:-··...•.•.
recipient 7 First name in Meatloaf. . , mysteries ChiCkeri'}Acapulco4r · sHad 
Stuffed Shells 
43 Lacking 53 Part of some 
. Chjckeri Patty
vicissitude court awards 
North
57 Exploit 44Smug one 
Meatloaf 
so Wapiti
45 Tightening Pierson .Deluxe Turkey
62 A C.P.A. mightmuscles recommend one 
48 Parent, at times 
63"-body 52 Dame Myra meet ..." 
EUGENIA LAST  
Libra: You have the poten­tial to get into trouble today. There are lots more inter­esting things to talk about than the work you should be doing. The hard part will be keeping your mouth shut. Scorpio: Choose your words carefully. You can lis­ten without inhibition around the middle of the day. Something you over­hear at lunch could help you put the puzzle pieces togeth­er. Sagittarius: There are difliculties to overcome, but they're not all your prob­lems. Do pay attention to where you're going, and to the work that needs to be done. Capricorn: Continue nego­tiations, even if you run into brick walls while you're at it. It looks like something you want and something another person wants are diametrically opposed. Aquarius: Your true love is in a nasty mood today. Things are not going quite the way he or she wants. It's not your fault, but you can help. Be extra kind and compassionate . Pisces: There's a lot going on at work, and your home is rather confusing, too. It might feel like everybody wants a little bit of your time. Your emotional reser­voirs are full, but they're getting drained rapidly.  i 1  

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
Have something to say?
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
Tell your roommate. 
50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
-· 
...... 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

;====~~···< 
It's the END of the ~emester....Time to GEAR UP for finals and celebrate when they are DONE!! But when the finals end...STA Y SMART!! 
Remember To Make Responsible Decisions Before You Drink Without Feeling Pressure From Others. 
Sponsored By The Office Of Aicohol And Drug Education 

9 Rat 10 Biblical verb 
suffix 
11 Row 
12 Sister of Cordelia 13 Writer's starting point 15 Alphabetical sequence 22 Cause of a rude awakening? 25 Chess champion after Fischer 27 Spreads 
30 Switch activator, sometimes 
32 Goodyear product 34 Senior 36lnserts 38 Kind of insurance 39 Slightly injured 
40 City taken by the Crusaders, 1109 
41 Popular breakfast food 
, .. 

'·( ·, ( 

1 
;·~ : 
I\ ; 
I 
I I \ 
'' . 
... '' ,~( ' 
1: : .
i 
~l'l. ~q
lHI} 
Hi 
· 


-· 
',_..,.I 

,.
............ .=-:: F. ,pea_ 
r 
' \. I 
l ~
l ; 
l{ ~ { 
I 
' 
SPORTS
I \ 
.·.' 
page 36 Wednesday, April 29, 1998 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish victory 'not pretty,' but keeps streak alive 
By BILL HART Assistant Spores Edicor 
"Well, it wasn't pretty. In fact, it was pretty ugly." 
Head coach Liz Miller uttered these words after the Notre Dame softball team walked off Ivy Field. However, the Irish prevailed once again, as they swept the Indiana State Sycamores 3-2, 2-1 to keep their winning streak alive. 
The Irish got the 

ball rolling in the Cunningham first inning of the matinee, as senior Jenn Giampaolo 
singled to second base to lead off the game. She then stole second, 
• BASEBAll 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spores Editor 
On Saturday, Irish football fans went in search of answers. They found nothing but vague generalities at the annual Blue-Gold game. 
"We went into the game with some simple goals. Number one we wanted it to be a reward for the players," Irish football head coach Bob Davie said. "We have had 14 real good days of practice. Second thing, we wanted to watch some guys compete without the coaches being in the huddle, without the coaches being in the back telling them what to do on a lot of occa­sions. We wanted to see some hitting. Most of all we wanted to come out of it healthy." 
advanced to third on a single by Amy Laboe and scored on a double by Sarah Mathison. Freshman Lizzy Lemire then singled to the shortstop to score Laboe and give the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
The Sycamores came back in the sixth, after starting pitcher Jennifer Sharron was replaced by Melanie Alkire. The leadoff batter promptly advanced on a fielding error, and the next batter was hit by a pitch. The fol­lowing at-bat promptly scored one run, with another run coming with two outs to tie the game up. 
In the bottom of the inning, the Irish scored the game-winning run when Korrie Allen advanced home on a sin­gle by Danielle Klayman. 
In the top of the seventh, the Sycamores used one last desparate 
attempt to rally with a runner on sec­ond base and no outs. 
On the next play, the runner bar­reled down Dawn Cunningham in an attempt to reach home and send the game into extra innings. However, Cunningham threw the ball home just in time to catch the runner, ending the scoring threat. This caused Sycamore head coach Linda Derk to get into a shouting match with the umpire. Derk was ejected, while Alkire got the next batter to fly out and earn the win. 
The Irish were led by Mathison, who went 2-for-3 with one RBI. Freshman Lizzy Lemire also went 2-for-3 from the plate, with one RBI in the first. After the double play in the seventh inning, Cunningham was taken out of 
see SOFTBALL/ page 30 
Michigan State holds off Notre Dame McKeown 
'disappoints' his coaches 
By ALLISOJS KRILLA Associate Spores Editor 
The comeback kids final­ly found themselves in a hole from which they couldn't escape. 
After falling behind 2-0 in the first inning yester­day, the Notre Dame base­ball team failed to perform its usual reappearing act, dropping a 4-1 decision to Michigan State at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"Tonight wasn't our night," head coach Paul Mainieri said, following the team's second loss in four games. "They pitched well, and we just didn't swing the bats the way that we're capable of. But that's the way baseball is -you can't win 'em all; you just have to deal with it and go 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
see BASEBALL I page 28 Jeff Felker drove in the lone Irish run Tuesday in a 4-1 loss to Michigan State. 

• FOOTBAll 
Questions remain after scrimmage 
Notre Dame fans left Saturday's game with no answers to the uncertainty which lies ahead for Irish football. After a lackluster year, finishing with a record of 7-6, Davie and Co. sought redemption in any way possible this Saturday. 
Only one definite answer was given, the Blue squad defeated Gold, 38-7. Perhaps the biggest question lurking in the minds of spectators was that of the strength of the quarterback. 
After a season in which so many questioned the play calling of Davie, many felt that this spring, .Jarious Jackson should shine. While Jackson completed 15 for 248 yards, his three interceptions )pft many spectators unsatisfied. 
"Hcsults of the game and things like that are 
• TRACI< 
Big East meet will test Ifish 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Spores Writer 
The Big East Outdoor Championships this weekend will be a true test of the Notre Dame track and field team's improvement this season. 
At the Big East Indoor Championships in late February, th•~ men's team ended up in a disappointing second place, falling short of its goal of a team championship in a close battle with Georgetown. The women took ninth place overall. This weekend, the men arc once again aiming to earn a first-ever team title, with the women seeking to improve on their ninth place indoor finish. 
"It's going to b(9"a challenging meet, to say the least," said head coach Joe Piane. "Georgetown is running excep­tionally well, and St. John's did not have a couple of its dis-
see TRACK I page 27 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
see FOOTBALL 1page 26 Fullback Jason Murray is dropped after a short gain in the Blue-Gold game. 

Chicago Hofstra Thursday, 3:05 p.m. 
~ a;
Saturday, 2 p.m. Big East Tournament 
Tennis 
~ 
at Ivy Field MIAA Tournament 
4..,.,
Saturday, Noon Friday and Saturday 
s" ••riJ
Trackat Big East Softball 
Villanova, Pa. 
MIAA Tournament 
Saturday and Sunday 4..,.,
s" ~ 
Friday and Saturday 
•SMC tennis going to first tournament 
see page 33 
•Miami takes lead on Knicks, 2-1 
see page 21 





