

•• Saturday, Humor Artists
• The NO Women's
Knocf( outt 
basketball team begins 
will present their first show
Bh:! East 
its post-season play this 
of the year at Hesburgh
• Brian "The Nutty Irishman" Gaffney 
weekend at Rutgers. 
Auditorium.
defends his 175-lb. title tonight at the 68th 
Tournev 
p. 13
annual Bengal Bouts. see Special Section p.28 

Friday, February 27, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 101 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



Eldred denies Alliance club status 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
The five purposes outlined by The 

Saint Mary's News Editor 

Alliance and Eldred's summary of the
'THE GROUP'S COURAGE IN RAISING THE 
College's current efforts in those areas 
ISSUE OF SEXUALITY ••• (HAS] SET A HIGH 

After six months of deliberation, 
are quoted from the letter below. 

Saint Mary's College president 
STANDARD FOR CONTINUING EXPLORATION OF 
Marilou Eldred has decided to "deny Goal 1: "To provide a safe environment 
THESE TOPICS.'
the request of The Alliance to be a 
for those dealing with issues around sex­chartered club." 
MAR/LOU ELDRED 

uality, whether it be coming to terms In a four-page letter addressed to 
with one's own sexuality or that of a the entire Saint Mary's community 
PRESIDENT OF SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 

friend or family member. This means today, Eldred thoroughly explained 
providing them with a physical space her reasoning to withhold recognition 
that is safe and also a welcoming and of the group, who was seeking a 
'I'M APPREHENSIVE BECAUSE MY GOAL IS TO 
warm atmosphere in which to hold dis­

MEET THE NEEDS OF STUDENTS. I DO NOT
College-sanctioned student outlet to 
cussions on sexuality." address all issues of sexuality. 
FEEL COMFORTABLE RIGHT NOW SAYING THAT 
Eldred: By its nature and mission, the In her announcement, Eldred 
College is a place where all members of

THOSE NEEDS ARE BEING MET.'
restated the five central goals of The 
the community are welcome and where Alliance, and addressed how various 
NIKKI MILOS 

dialogue about matters related to sexual­campus departments are currently 
SAINT MARY'S STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT 
ity can be discussed within the parame­involved in achieving similar objec­
ters of a community of scholars and tives. 
believers. She ultimately concluded that "in In particular, the staff of Campus
Committee on Relationships to "fur­the committee and also of The
associating [The Alliance's] goals 
Ministry is a pastoral presence on cam­

ther consider its charge, committee Alliance, acknowledged the difficulty
with only one group, the unintended 
pus open to all students who wish to

composition, and financial needs in of making the decision. 
result could be the identification of engage in dialogue surrounding issues of
order to respond to the five purposes "I understand the constraints that
these goals with only one segment of sexuality. The Counseling and Career
stated in The Alliance constitution." the president is working under, by
the College community." 
Development staff is a resource for stu­

Eldred's third action involves a nature of her position," she said.
Eldred outlined four steps that she dents to discuss and explore topics of
request for a report from the "However, I have reservations about
will take to further explore the 
sexuality. The staff of Health Services

Committee on Relationships regard­the lack of peer support in the presi­
issues. each of which focus almost continues to expand their library of edu­ing her second instruction: The com­dent's alternative." 
entin'iy on the Committee on 
cational offerings and topics regarding

mittee's charge, composition and "I respect the president's decision, 
Relationships. The committee was women's health and sexuality. 
financial status. and I recognize that it was a difficult
originally formed by College presi­Goal 2: "To educate the larger campus
The final step to be taken in the decision," said student body vice
dent William Hickey as an initial community on issues surrounding sexu­
"College-wide common journey" will president Lori McKeough. "I have a
vehicle for discussion on contempo­ality. These are not limited to only issues 
be to review the committee's work great deal of respect for all the
rary issues for women. 
surrounding homosexuality, but rather to

annually to confirm that all aspects of avenues she used to get to know peo­
The first step maintains that the those issues and questions that arise
campus life are addressed. ple's points of view." 
Committee on Relationships will not from prevalent discussions or events,
Yesterday, Eldred released her McKeough voiced some concern
only remain active but also become a 
however they should manifest them­

decision to the Committee on Eldred's future plans stated in the
standing committee of the College, selves."
Relationships and a few other select letter. "This is a step in the right
answering directly to the president. Eldred: The Health Service regularly
leaders within the College. 
Secondly, Eldred has instructed the distributes educational flyers to all mem­
Junior Kelly Curtis, a member of see ALLIANCE I page 4 
bers of the campus community on issues 

relevant to women's health and sexuali­Board of Governance grants Pro-Alliance rally ty; i.e., sexually transmitted diseases. recognition to The Alliance n.--uA e....-; t st "Afe t In December, Patricia Livingston, coun­
....""".tw;u;_.asanofficialcampusclub ;tk"'=*'~-proe sw. rmen selor and nationally-known speaker, pre­sented two open forum sessions on
tnJer.witt! tile Cotmlittee Relationships and intimacy:
00 RelatJonshjps. . 
Understanding and Embracing our 
see LETTER I page 4 
, 

Outlined against a blue-grey sky ...

Dowty publishes book on Israeli development 
By SEAN SMITH 
Assistant News Editor 
The examination of the for­mation and development of Israel is the subject of the new book "The Jewish State: A cen­
tury Later," by Alan Dowty, pro­fessor of gov­ernment and international studies at Notre Dame. 
"I was 


asked some Dowty years ago to write an evaluation of the state of democracy in Israel, but found that in doing this I had to take-a broad historical and social perspective," Dowty said. "The project took on a life of its own, in a way, and grew into a book that takes on the whole history of Zionism and the whole range of problems facing modern Israel." 
In the book, Dowty concludes that the success of Jewish poli­tics is represented in its capaci­ty for power-sharing. 
His demonstration of this capacity reveals the strengths and weaknesses of Israeli democracy in responding to the challenges of communal divi­sions, religious contention, non-Jewish minorities, and 

see DOWTY I page 8 page 2 

• INSIDE CoLUMN 

The Meaning of Friendship 
Throughout life many P. Colleen Nugent people enter in and out 
Associ are Sainr Mary's

of our lives. A saying I News Ediror
learned in grade school 
from my Girl Scout troop 
said "we make new friends but keep the old; 
one is silver while the other's gold." 
I find this statement to be very true. 
Yesterday, I was reminded of the true mean­
ing of friendship when I went to observe a 
third !,>Tade class in a South Bend elementary 
school. Within ten minutes of my arrival, I 
noticed girls wearing matching outfits, or 
sporting their "best-friends" fashion jewelry. 
The symbolism in these children took me 
back to the memories of my early childhood. 
My girlfriends and I used to plan identical out­
fits and go everywhere together. After all, we 
knew every secret the other possessed. 
As a junior in college, the definition of the 
word friendship has kept the same definition, 
but has taken on some new twists. From an 
older perspective, friends have definitely 
earned their place in my heart, and true 
friendships can stand the trials we face 
throughout life. It is in a true friendship that 
we are able to see past the speed bumps we 
encounter and realize the substance that has 
brought us together as people is much more 
important than the setbacks that occur in our 
daily lives. 

In order to be formed, friendship needs to be 
experienced. 

Without going the extra mile or reaching out 
to other individuals, many rPJationships would 
not have been formed. 
I believe that it extends to a much deeper 
level; one that surpasses any materialistic or 
superficial means. 

A true friend to me is someone that loves 
and accepts you simply for being the person 
you are; physically, spiritually and emotionally. 
A true friend is someone who knows all about 
you and still loves you. Furthermore, a true 
friend is someone who you can simply enjoy 
the beauty and comfort of silence with. 
In a society such as ours, it can be difficult to 
find a true friend. While many men and 
women get caught up in the world of fashion, 
some tend to forget what it really takes to be a 
"good" friend. I am not saying that all friend­
ships in our society are materialistic. However, 
it is apparent that many choose their friends 
ba<;ed on what. rather than who, they actually 
are. 

This year, I have been blessed to have found 
a wonderful group of friends who I know will 
be a part of my life for many years. This is true 
despite the fact that this semester, between 
seven classes and various activities, I have not 
been able to spend as much time with them as 
I'd like, and I feel as if we have been growing 
apart. 

Majoring in education, observing at the ele­
mentary schools and working for the newspa­
per has not allowed me much extra time. In 
those moments I can spare, I enjoy spending 
time with them. These girls have definitely 
proven themselves wonderful friends, and I 
know that we will always have each other. 
We share many memories, pictures, laughs 
and embarrassing moments, and never would 
I think about trading them in for any other 
replacements. 

College is only four short years of our lives. 
We need to make the most of them. It is up to 
us to pick and choose our friends with wisdom 
and to make the most of the time we have here 
atSMC-ND. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• ToDAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Laura Perelle  Kristi Klitsch  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Kathleen O'Brien  Dave Peining  
Sports  Production  
Sarah Dylag  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Michael Boland  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday cxccpr during exam and vacacion periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Friday, February 27, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
D.A. releases findings in student death investigation 
BATON ROUGE, LA. 

The East Baton Rouge Parish District Attorney announced the results of the ongoing investigation into the death of Benjamin Wynne at a press conference Wednesday. Wynne died August 25 after a frater­nity initiation event. 
District Attorney Doug Moreau is charging H.B.M. Corporation, the par­ent company of Murphy's Bar, with 86 counts of unlawful sales to persons under 21. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon as a corpora­tion will be charged with 86 counts of unlawful purchase of alcoholic bever­ages on behalf of persons under 21, Moreau said. 
If found guilty on these counts, the maximum fine for H.B.M. Corp. is $100 and/or six months in prison per charge and $500 and/or 30 days in prison per charge for the SAE chap­ter, according to Moreau. 
However, after evaluating the 

• POMONA COllEGE 
Two students die when tree collapses 
CLAREMONT, Calif. 
Sophomores Brian Cressner and Peter Kurahashi were 
killed Monday night when a eucalyptus tree, its roots loos­
ened by recent rains, fell on their car while it was at a 
stop sign on the corner of Fourth Street and College 
Avenue. Visiting music professor Heinz Blankenburg was 
also injured in the accident. The students were driving 
through heavy rain from their dorm to a 7:00p.m. class in 
Crookshank Hall. As they waited to turn north onto 
College Avenue, the tree fell south across Kurahashi's 
Isuzu Trooper and hit the hood of Blankenburg's Lincoln 
Mark VII, which was parked on Fourth Street facing east. 
According to Dean of Students Ann Quinley, Blankenburg 
"was trapped there for about an hour. They got him out 
with very minor injuries. And then, it was two hours 
before they were able to clear away the underbrush [from 
Kurahashi's car] and then they had to cut the log. 
Sometime, I guess around 8:00, we began to be reason­
ably convinced that the students were not alive." 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
99 year-old former president dies 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Former university President Harlan Hatcher, who oversaw 
Michigan's largest period of expansion during his 16 years 
in office, died Wednesday at age 99. "We wouldlike him to 
be remembered as a man of courage, vision and keen intel­
lect," Anne Hatcher Berenberg, Hatcher's daughter said yes­
terday, speaking on behalf of the family. "We remember him 
as a loving husband and father who nurtured the best in his 
family," Hatcher said. "We remember him as loving, warm 
... with an optimistic outlook." University President Lee 
Bollinger said Hatcher will be remembered for leading the 
University during a time of immense physical growth. 
"President Hatcher had a noble bearing, a noble mind and a 
level of human courtesy unknown in our time," Bollinger 
said in a written statement. "He presided over the University 
during one of It's formative stages. His name will always be 
mentioned in the same breath as Michigan." 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Students required to own computers 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
Along with paper and pens, students will need another tool when they come to the university in the fall of 1999 -a computer. Over the past year, the university's Council of Undergraduate Deans has discussed a pro­posal to make sure all students own or have access to a computer. In the coming months, talks will intensify as the deans try to put finishing touches on the policy. But with concerns ranging from students' varying computer needs to the financial burdens of buying a machine, the proposal is still in the formative stages. Don Riley, who heads the university's Office of Information Technology, said the proposal was launched to raise education stan­dards and options for all students. Illustrating a profi­cient knowledge of computers will be vitally important as graduates hit the job market, he added. Discussion of the issue at the university mirrors a national trend of schools mandating their students to possess computers. 
• STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Report criticizes lack of female hiring 
STANFORD, Calif. 
A group of Stanford faculty members calling themselves the Women's Coalition for Gender Equity yesterday released a report sharply criticizing Stanford for its record in hiring and tenuring women faculty. The report-a pre­liminary version that will be released in final form in March -calls on the University to pursue more actively its efforts to increase the percentage of tenured faculty who are female. In 1993, the last time a comprehensive report on trends in faculty was produced, only 13.3 per­cent of tenured faculty were women, placing Stanford far behind most comparable schools. Drawing from tenure trends at the School of Humanities and Sciences and the School of Medicine, the report charges the university with hiring women for jobs that are not tenure-line and with failing to tenure those women whose positions make them eligible. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, Feb. 27. Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 



~

Fridaf:. .~ .... ""' ...... 
! 

Satur4ay ~ 45 35 
Sun~y ~ ~~~"5 Monday ~ .-'}35" 2'5 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc.
...· 4! 
Pressure

Tuesday . /··L:':t,::-35 ,25 H L 63 ISS! [I] 0 . fZ] B i) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN FLURRIES ICE PTCLOUDY
{'i'-"J"'''-v'""-' .. T·STORMS SNOW SUNNY CLOUDY 
VIa Anoclaled Prus 


Albany 45 31 Detroit 52 38 Newark 58 39 
Billings 37 18 Fargo 39 27 Omaha 39 24 
Boston 50 36 Fresno 62 38 Phoenix 67 43
q,~,QQG.Q(f ~ ~ 
Showers T-stonns Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 58 38 Maui 78 61 Richmond 64 42 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Denver 34 18 Memphis 60 39 St. Paul 43 25 

The investigation will remain open in the event other evidence surfaces, but it will not be in the same active status, Moreau said. 
"Our goal in this case is to gather as many facts as are possible and find the truth of what happened without prejudging what the results will be," Moreau said. "The judgments should be a natural conclusion flowing from the information received." 
Moreau appointed Prem Burns, chief of the special investigative divi­sion, to the head the investigation into Wynne's death. 
Burns concluded the tragedy was "an individual series of choices that 
basically  resulted  in  [Wynne's]  
death."  
Moreau received the  case  from  

LSUPD and conducted approximately 12 interviews with witnesses who had not previously been interviewed, he said. 
He then reinterviewed some wit­nesses, totaling over 200 interviews, to determine two factors: whether a crime was committed and, if so, who was responsible, he said. 
The two factors had to be thorough­ly investigated because the intoxica­tion levels of the witnesses were high and it made fact gathering difficult. Moreau said. 
Friday, February 27, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Notre Dame subway alum Herb Juliano dies at 75 
Observer Staff Report 
Herb Juliano. one of Notre Dame's most active subway alumni, passed away in his sleep Tuesday. lie was 75. 
In almost 50 years as a resi­dent of Notre Dame and South Bend, Juliano was curator of th!l University's International Sports and Games Research Collection. a sportscaster on WNDU-Ch. 16, founder of a campus group for students con­sidering religious vocations, and author of a book, "Notr!l Dam!l OdyssBy: A Journey through Sports and Spirituality on the Notre Dame Campus." 
Shortly after his birth in Philadelphia. he and his family movml to Hammonton, N.J. A veteran of World War II, he tried out with the Philadelphia Athletics baseball team in 1946 and three years later coaehed the Hammonton Little League team to a World Series title. 
A year later, Juliano moved to Notre Dame to train as a postu­late for the Brothers of the Holy Cross. Although he never joined the order, he said in "Notre Dame Odyssey" that he fell in love with the University. 
"Even in the short time I had been on campus, I sensed that this was a special place where one could find happiness in a dedicated life," Juliano wrote in the foreword of the book, which was published in 1993. 
At Notre Dame, Juliano worked with the late Joe Boland in the operation of the Irish Football Network, then the national voice of Notre Dame football. Later a sportscaster, he said one of his greatest thrills was covering the Irish's victory over Alabama in the Sugar Bowl to win the 1973 national title. 
lie sat on the U.S. Olympic 

'1\N ENCHANTING INVITATION THAT'S IMPOSSIBLE To RESIST!" 
-Midud M..f,.,j 
iiS\till\1 "TREMENDOUSLY FuNNY! Shall we dance?-You bet!" 
-Jark Math~W11 
"FILLED WITH ZEST, CHARM 
AND AN ENDLESS BOUNTY OF L\UGHTER!" 
-Stf'phf'n llunlfr 
Cinema at the Snite Fri. & Sat. 7:30 and 9:45pm Presented by ND Communications and Theatre 
Committee from 1977 to 1984 and also served as a research assistant in Notre Dame's sports information department, from which he retired in the mid-1980s. 
But retirement did not slow him down. In 1990, he founded Students Encouraging Heligious Vocations, a group for students who were considering religious life. 

"Our hope [about SERVJ is that we can provide the envi­ronment, programs and experi­ences-in which students can freely discern the path they need to take in following the Lord," Juliano told The Observer in 1992. 
Juliano took the organization to the national level in 1993, establishing the National Legion of SERV. Dioceses and high schools in such cities as San Diego and Parkersburg, W.Va., started chapters. 
"He sought out ways to do the Lord's work and to continue his life's habit of helping everyone he came in contact with," said John Shafer, a friend. 
Juliano left the sports infor­mation department to establish an association of Notre Dame subway alumni, but the organi­zation's use of the University's · trademarks prompted school officials to file a lawsuit in 1985. • 
Juliano was also a member of 
the Sacred Heart parish. 

"He loved to read scripture for the Masses [at the Basilica] and play the organ," Shafer said. "He was known for years to be found every evening at 
6:45 p.m. reciting the rosary at the Grotto on campus." 
At the time of his death, he lived in St. Paul's Retirement Community in South Bend. 
Of Notre Dame, Juliano once sairl. "T am fortunate. indeed, that my life has taken me deep into the realm of spirited and 

llnh•cr.sitv 
~( ­~otrr IJamc 

Announcements 
Add'l packs of 5 @  
Custom Note cards,  
notes and Souvenir Covers also  
available.  
Phone, mail, fax orders:  
Balfour Co.  
2346 So. Lynhurst Dr. #500  
Indianapolis, IN  46241  
800/236-4639  
fax  -317/241-0430  Place orders in person on:  
Wed., March 4,  

Tues., Wed., March 24 & 25 LaFortune Student Center Sorin Room, 9:30 am -4:30 pm 

spiritual Notre Dame life. I could never repay this University of Notre Dame and the people who work, study and minister here for all that they have given me: a reason for liv­ing, a meaningful life, a sense of accomplishment." 
Friends may call at McGann Funeral Home, 2313 Edison Road, from 3 to 5 p.m. Sunday. A funeral Mass will be held· at 
9:30 a.m. Monday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. He will be buried in Cedar Grove Cemetery on the campus. 
Memorial contributions may be sent to the St. Lawrence Seminary, 301 Church St., Mount Calvary, Wis., 53057. 
-~~ ~~-~~~~---~ ~
-r-------~-----~--~-or--­
~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 27, I 998 


Alliance 
continued from page 1 
direction by acknowlndging that students have questions about sexuality: however. I'm still concerned that students will not be receiving the peer acceptanen that is a necessity." 
Student body president Nikki Milos was also struggling with the ramifications of Eldred's announcemnnt. 
''I'm apprehensive [about the dneisionl because my goal is to mep,t tlw nePds of students," shn said. "I do not f11nl eomfort­able right now saying that those rwmls are being mnt." 
Stud1mt body president-elect Sarah Siefer·t. a memb1~r of the Board of Governance commit­tee that rnsearched The Alliance's proposal almost one year ago and then recommend­ed the group be oflieially rec­ognized, expressed both respect for Eldred and frustra­tion in the outcome of her efforts. 
"I respect the fact that President Eldred took great care in eoming to the decision. but I'm very disappointed in it," Siefert said. "I don't feel her solution has met the needs of students." 
McKeough feels that the Committee on Helationships will function as resourceful campus programmers, but questions their effeetiveness with individual students strug­gling with issues of sexuality. 
"The committee will bring in lots of credible speakers, but the committe11 is definitely lacking a student space," she said. 
Milos eoncurred. "My major concern at this point is the stu­dnnt voice," she said. "I want students to have an avenue to 

go and discuss sexual orienta­tion with their peers." 
Milos feels that the commit­
tee's current structure does 
not encourage or facilitate that 
kind of student-to-student sup­
port. 
"Peer education is a vital component of sexual ~duca­tion, therefore, I beseech this committee to remember that although the programming they do is beneficial, peer-to­peer education is vital to suc­cessfully address this Issue," she stated. 
Members of the committee, who were appointed by both Hickey and Eldred, include stu­dents Kelly Highton, Liz Wisnewski, Kelly Curtis and sophomore Kimmi Martin. 
Other members include Sister Hose Anne Schultz, vice president for mission, Schultz' assistant Sister Bettina Ferraro, vice president of stu­dent affairs Linda Timm, direc­tor of campus ministry Judy Fean, director of health service Judy Kenney, director of resi­dence life Suzie Orr, associate professor of psychology Joseph Miller and assistant professor of chemistry and physics, Sister Kathleen Antol. 
Outspoken student reactions are expected to surface as early as today and extend through next week, as news of Eldred's decision was already spreading last night. 
Members of the senior class were alerted last night by post­ings in bathrooms which solicited written responses to be submitted to Eldred. Alliance activists gathered for several hours last night to reportedly plan a physical protest of Eldred's announce­ment, according to a represen­tative of the group. 
It's a beautiful day in the neighborhood ... 

The Observer/Meg Kroener 
Notre Dame students take advantage of the warm weather and relax on the quad. 


Letter 

continued from page 1 
Sexuality. 

, For the last three years, pro­gramming around AIDS educa­tion has been presented to help students and others learn more about this deadly disease which can be transmitted through sexual contact. Each fall for the past two years, a training ses­sion covering 1he issue of homosexuality has been pre­sented to [resident assistants]. The program has involved fac­ulty and staff from several departments on campus. 
Goal 3: "To create an open forum in which students freely and critically study the rich heritage of the Catholic tradi­tion, raising the questions nee­
"Let's face it, being a head coach for the first time there's a I ot of experiences that you have not 
.
exper1 enced before." 
essary to develop a mature reli­gious life. This goal becomes important when attempting to resolve the struggle between sexuality and faith." 
Eldred: A student govern­ment-sponsored open forum was held in November with the purpose of surfacing issues and questions from students regarding sexuality and the Saint Mary's woman. A survey of topic ideas was developed and distributed to those attend­ing the Patricia Livingston pre­sentations. From this list, three topics have been identified for development and presentation over the next several months. They are: "Intimacy: Physical, Spiritual, and Emotional " "What the Church Does an'd Does Not Teach About Sexuality," and "Women's Friendships." 
Goal 4: "To cultivate a com­munity life which responds to the needs of women in a way that is dedicated to personal and social growth." 
Eldred: The College continues to promote a Christian commu­nity dedicated to the personal and social growth of its stu­de~ts as well as a community whrch responds to the needs of women through intellectual inquiry, liturgical prayer and social action. 
Goal 5: "To foster an appreci­ation of differences and accep­tance of diversity." 
Eldred: The Office of Multkultural AITairs has been relocated to the Division of Student Affairs and has refo­cused goals and objectives toward programming geared specifically to students, faculty and staff of various cultures. 
Straight from the Source Info about: Jim Coli etto 
Next Year's Team The QB Question More ... 

~------------------------------~---------------------------------------­

Friday, February 27, 1998 
• V~ !f?,l;_'; JEbiS BRIEFS 
Jury rejects lawsuit against Oprah 
AMARILLO. Texas 
Oprah Winfrey b1)at Big B1)ef to cheers and cham­pagne in the heart of Tnxas cattle country Thursday. "Free speech not only lives. It rocks!" the talk show host pro­claimed outside the cour­thouse to a crowd of townspeople after a jury rejected an $11 million lawsuit brought against 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 


Solar eclipse occurs in Caribbean 
AssociATED PRESS 
WILLEMSTAD, Curacao 

Confused roosters crowed and moth­ers thrust children under their beds during a solar eclipse of the sun that plunged much of Venezuela, Colombia and the Caribbean in deep twilight Thursday, inspiring awe and not a little fear. 
Thousands of cruise ship tourists, Carnival revelers and astronomers gathered to behold the Western Hemisphere's last total solar eclipse of the century. 
At Venezuela's Plaza Bolivar in downtown Caracas, New Age devotees formed a circle, closed their eyes and opened their palms in worship. 
Families enjoying the spectacle on the Dutch island of Curacao spread pic­nic fare on a windswept plain dotted by 15-foot cacti and slow-running igua­nas. 
But in some places, the phenomenon caused panic. In Haiti, parents thrust children under their beds and young­sters raced to get home for fear of being struck blind -an exaggeration of the damage that can be done to unprotected eyes. 
Confused roosters crowed as if it were dawn in Valledupar, a state capi­tal in Colombia surrounded by ranch­land. Nocturnal animals awoke while birds retreated to their nests, thinking it was bedtime. 
"It's a mystery. Who knows what will happen? Who knows whether the sun will return?" Osman Jordan said .tiS he arranged rows of apples, bananas and onions on a wooden stand at the pier of Willemstad, capital of Curacao. 
Radio hosts spent the day trying to alleviate fears of a phenomenon this island won't experience for another 600 years. 
Around the Caribbean, government officials spent weeks educating the public. Some distributed special glasses for safe viewing. 
One campaign in Haiti caused a 

A Haiti resident covers his head with a cardboard box while walking through empty streets during a total eclipse of the sun. The eclipse was most visible near the equator. 

Winfrey 

panic that forced schools and shops to dose. A mayor warned people's eyes would burst if they looked at the sun. 
A new rumor ran through Port-au­Prince Thursday morning: Under the cover of darkness, right-wing activists would return ousted dictator Jean­Claude Duvalier. 
"There's a lot of people who fear this eclipse," said Zaira Busby, 24, of the Curacao government's Solar Eclipse Committee. "But to me this is great. It's a once in a lifetime experience." 
Dozens of families, scientists and amateur astronomers converged on the island's Westpunt, where the darkness lasted more than three minutes. 
In a total solar eclipse, the moon blocks all but the sun's corona, its flar­ing outer envelope, casting the earth into deep twilight through which the stars and planets shine. 
Many areas experienced a partial eclipse, from Ecuador to Puerto Rico to parts of the southeastern United States. 
People set up picnic tables, vendors sold souvenir T-shirts, and astronomers fidgeted with dozens of 
NEW YORK\ 
Five white police officers were indicted thursdayon fed· ­era! civil rights charges in the case of a Haitian _ _--_ who was allegeqly beaten and sodomized ata 
with a stick. _____ -·.•··-·••_-_•• -< __ _ -·-. ·--___.­Four of the ofl'iCt!r§ alreadyfaced s~ate alleged attacklastAugust on 31-year"old who spent two months in a hospital afterhis colon were ruphu'ed. But the Brooklyn district said he will drop tl1e state charges nextweek. The fifth officer, Michael Bellomo, is accused of helping.i.n a eoverup. The 
indictment al~o<~luirg-es that offic~rs assaulted and fa:I~~ly arrested another Haitian immigrant, Patrick Antoine, the 
same night. ·· 
''I believe that :rny suffering will Mt have been in vain ifit deters other acts of police brutality/' Louima said at a ne'Ws conference. "The indictments announced today are the first serious steps in that directiott'' 
The attack on Louima, who is black, became a rallying cry for those who contend the Police Departmen(is abusive, particularly to minorities. 
:,:·. ,·:·,:.:. 
____ .--· ••·-'s Cirll 
i:U priSon, rather .. 

_ Wtder state law ofaggravated sexual a.b1lse. 
Officers Justin Volpe~ Charles Schwarz, Thomas Wiese and were charged with conspiracy. They Louima in apolice car after his Aug__ .ter that night, in.. a Volp¢ _ Schwarz allegedly 
him andshovirtg a stick into his ­rectum and mouthwhile his hands were cuffed behind his back. Louima and Antoine had been arrested on assault and other charges, which were eventually dropped. 
·· · five officers plea<led innocent at an ·gnmept in U.S: District Courtih m~they w i'~~eased on $100,()00 <and Judge neNickerson sched.'" status conferen¢¢for April3. ·· · 
J:Jrooklyn District Attorney Charles Hynes said h~ is happily turning the prosecution ov~rto the U.S. Attorney's office. 
Police Commissioner.Howard Safll' said thefederal charges ''serve to demonstrate ·· ewYork ·· olice Depar~ept 
lerate any nduct by any (')$ rs." · · e omo's attorney, George Cerrone, said his client, an 1Hyear police veteran and supervisor the 
sophisticated and not-so-sophisticated cameras and telescopes as the sky began to darken and take the edge off the tropical heat. . 
Some star-chasing cruise liners offered running commentary on the event. Scientists Alan Hale and Tom Bopp of Hale-B'opp comet fame were on the Star Clipper. a four-masted sail­ing ship based in Antigua. 
Steve Micciche and Ann Donegan of Denver labored in the heat to build a sophisticated telescope from 800 pounds of equipment carted in freight boxes. They hoped to sell eclipse pic­tures to universities. 
After a career spent studying and photographing eclipses. Roy Bishop, 58, of Avonport, Nova Scotia, prepared to simply enjoy one. An editor and past president of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada, his sole equipment Thursday was a handmade viewing lens. · 
"This time I just want to see it," Bishop said. "This is just an emotional experience today. On the scale of one to 10 of celestial events, this is a 10." 
h~ sexually a.busfhg him •could get Ufe a maximum of 25 years if convicted 
prompted protest marches and became an issue in Mayor ·nightofthe incident, aCted as "a professional." Rudolph Giuliani's re·~lection campaign.· .•• "He called .the shots that night. There was no cover~up. 
The federal civil rights charges carry heavier· penalti$~ i Jllis is the governJt~ent second-guessing some decisions than state charges of beating and sexually ai:lsaultip;g ' .t;n;J,de inafast-moying-; riot('lituation,~ Cerrone said. ·· Louima. Also, fed~ral rules generally make it. easi!)J.' to, ··.......·.f<.(')rnbetg als() cu~ed Hynes, ·a Pemocrat who is.run~ introduce evidence. . ...•. .. .•...· ning for gover ·•.......... Jheing afraid to prosecute police while 
For example, the two officers accused of violating 
running a campaign. 
page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 27, 1998 
SMC accelerated nursing program open to applicants 
Special to The Observer 
College graduates can earn a bachelor of science degree with a major in nursing at Saint Mary's College through the Accelerated Program in Nursing. 

Any qualified female college graduate who holds a bac­calaureate degree in an area other than nursing is eligible to apply. 
The 13-month program 
begins May 26 and ends in July 1999. Applications are currently being accepted. 
Applicants must have com­pleted all prerequisite science courses prior to beginning the nursing program. 
Graduates of the accelerated program are eligible to take the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses (NCLEX-RN) to become registered nurses. 
Saint Mary's originated its 
Accelerated Program in Nursing in 1993 as a response to the needs of its alumnae and the local community. 
Currently this is the only program of its type in the region. 

ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Thesday, March 3, 1998 
6:00p.m. 


101 Law School 

If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 102-B O'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
Wh~ did Tlte Ohse••vet< if"< a Febl"t-~a•·~ 11, 1998 ACC6NT al"ticle sa~ that p,..ogram of LibeYal Stt<~dies majoi"S have "distinctive attl"ibt<~tes that cof"'tt'ast with those of tl"aditional Nott<e Dame stt<~dehts 11? Come to a PLS ol"ien+ation meetil"'g Mal"ch 3, at 7i30 in the Libt<al'}:' Lotmge af'\d fihd ot<~t wh~! TilE PROGRAM OF LIBERAL STUDIES, was ••ecen+l~ selected as af"' "Ot<~tstandil19 example of the best in .Amel"ican highel" edt<~cation." We a.-e 11ow accepting applications fo.-its entel'ing Sophomo.-e Class. .Applications al'e now available in 215 O'Sha"9''ess~. ,;Application deadlif"'e is .Ar:wil 3. For more i11foronatiol'l come to the oo•ie11tatkm meetil'l9 or check ot-~t Ot.<r web site cot: WWW,nd.edu/-pls  
Topless Movie Ni9ht!!! at McGlinn You won't be able to top it, that is! Showing: 8 p.m. Clerks 10 p.m. Mal/Rats 12 p.m. Chasing Amy Come on over to the e{)ge ~f cetmpusjor some fun etn{)Joo{) thett wiff tetke ~ou over the e{)ge! Tonight, February 27th!  


GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  LEADERSHII>  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  



ARMY ROTC 

THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
---~..........----------­
Friday, February 27, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Azouley: Race hard to define with check box 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
News Writer 
Skin color does not necessarily correspond to the race of one's kin. according to Katya Gibe! Azouley, an assistant professor of anthropology at Grinnell College, in her lecture last night at Saint Mary's College. 
"The question of skin color and kin is an interesting one but one that is given very little atten­tion," Azouley said. 
When taking her 10-year-old daughter to a hospital for test­ing. Azouley, who is the daugh­ter of a Jamaican father and a Jewish mother, was asked to check a box for the correspond­ing race of her daughter. The list gave fom choices, one of which was black. This is where the dilemma for Azouley occurred. 
"The list said to check one box 
and I chose black. However, 
there was nothing to adequately 
define what [my daughter's! 
race was." Azouley said. "The 
question of naming is an impor­
tant one because it imposes 
boundaries on a community." 
Azouley went on to address 
the issue of racial identity. She 
said that many people do not 
realize that they have fractions 
of other races in their genes 
because of the behavior of their 
ancestors. 
She then gave an example of a 
woman from Louisiana who con-

r----------------------------------, 


The Observer/Manuela Hernandez Katya Gibel Azouley spoke last night at Saint Mary's College on the difficulties of defining one's race by checking a box on a census. 

t.tarEL 
® 

•PRIVATE 
IN ROOM 

JACUZZI SPAS (FOR 2) 

•FREE 
CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST 

•FREE 
HBO, CNN, ESPN 

•FREE 
LOCAL CALLS, FAX 


~ 
' 
! 
page? 
SMC 

goa\ of-th.is ,,.,.+>.,H-n is to educate and 
lnform students ab()ut the history of Saint Mary's. Many students knew infor­mation about Saint Mary's when applying for admisM sion; BOG hopes to· test the students' knowledge and e~q.>and on it. .· 
"What do Saint Mary's stu­dents know about Saint Mary's and the history behind it?" asked Janet Horvath, head of Saint Mary's College J~()pardy program. "We hope to 
encourage studen come 
how muc y d() . . . . . abo~.t S . Y's and cheer on t w students." The Board ofG()vernance wants students to particM ipate ·and show theil" school spirit "We want this to<be both and ed'Qciftional," ILI<'Itlr•u:l1:h• Said. 
sidered herself to be white. When the woman went to apply for a passport in 1983, she checked the box marked Caucasian. However, the state of Louisiana disagreed. 
"They said to her, 'You are a Negro,' and took her to court where they proved that in 1770 she had an ancestor who impregnated a black slave woman. Therefore, this woman was 1/32 black," Azouley said. 
The discussion then turned to whether multiracial should be listed as a category on the next 
U.S. census. 
"I think the question of the category comes about as there has come a generation that does not want to be categorized," Azouley said. "We have the emergence of a different group of people." 
Azouley then questioned whether all categories should be dismantled but said, "The U.S. census does what it is supposed to do. It is meant to create order. It has always been used to identify groups of people in order to distribute resources." 
She went on to say that check­ing a census category does not become a question of an individ­ual's choice but that it becomes political. This is not because the government opposes the idea of plurality but because the ques­tion of race affects would affect distribution of resources. 

Pick one up today and apply for the best job on campus 

*No passes 
....... ­
page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 27, 1998 

• CORRECTION 

In yesterday's Student Senate article, a statement by the student government parliamentarian Tim Keller about the legalistic nature of du Lac and a "student bill of rights" was mistakenly attributed to former Carroll Hall senator Dan Nesbitt. · 
The Observer regrets the error. 
RAMZI BUALUAN 
Announcer of the month "The Key is Clave" TODD CALLAIS 
Monday 1 0-11 pm News Announcer of the Month Thursday 12:30 News Update· 

F~ee Se.nintt.~ 
n tLe Ne'"' Tax La'ft's 
Sponsored byJohn Hancock FinancialServices 

Tuesday, Mar~L 
11:30~.1 :30 6: 
Lunch included. Dillller I CCE Room 100-104 ''5.. RSVP by Monday 1-800-982-7597 Seating is limited. · 
secular socialist elite, it has

Dowty 
continued from page 1 
accommodations with the Palestinians. 
"This is an important and fas­cinating study by one of this country's leading spncialists on Israel," said Mark Tessler, director of the .Center for International Studies at the University of Wisconsin­Milwaukee. 
"I became internsted in the Middle East because I went to .Jerusalem immediately after linishing my degree, and ended up staying there for 12 years," Dowty said. "Since I was already involved in the study of international relations, it would have been hard to avoid being drawn into issues of the Arab­Israeli conflict." 
"After a few years in Israel, I realized one day that most of my publications dealt with Middle Eastern issues in one way or another." said Dowty. 

"After I came to Notre Dame [in 1975] it seemed logical to focus on the part of the Middle East that I knew best, so I began looking more closely at Israeli society and politics." 
Dowty's book also offers insight into the current Middle Eastern crisis with Iraq. 
"One of the themes of the book is the preoccupation with security that marks Israeli political culture, given the background of most Israelis as refugees or the children of refugees, and the legacy of Jewish history," said Dowty. "I discuss the 'gevalt syndrome,' or doomsday mentality, at length. The recent scare con­nected with possible Iraqi attacks on Israel exemplifies this almost perfectly." 
Dowty stated that the changes Israel has undergone in the past 50 years are extensive, and that there is a good chance for peace in the area in the next 50 years. 
"The changes have of course been enormous,'' Dowty said. "From a society dominated by a been totally transformed by a resurgence of traditionalism on one hand, and rampant mod­ernization on the other. 
"I expect that in the next 50 years there will be some syn­thesis of these competing forces, creating a state that is Jewish but also part of the modern world," he continued. "I also hope and expect that it will coexist with a Palestinian state, created from the West Bank and Gaza, and live in rea­sonably normal relations with other states in the region.'' 
A specialist in Middle Eastern affairs, Dowty has been a mem­ber of the Notre Dame faculty since 1975 and is a fellow of the University's Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. He is the author of "Middle East Crisis" and "Closed Boundaries: The Contemporary Assault on Freedom of Movement." 
Dowty hold doctoral and mas­ter's degrees from the University of Chicago. 

osts Hypatia Day 
1>;,;>, :SELm1: Manrs College is host­annual Hypatia ton:u.ftt·ow a celebration 
.•.,.•. -....... and sciences girls show~ ·disciplines. .....,.,..·fter Hypatia (370­·. D;),; the first female 
mathematiCian and scientist 
. recorded in history, the day involves interaction with the Saint Mary's community, a ~eynote speech, a campus tour,.Junch and hands-on experience in the Jaborato· des. 
<In a:dd~tion, professional women lnthe fields of math­ematics and science will lead 
··discussions in tho afternoon to conclude the day's activities. Hypatia Day is designed to 
encourage junior high school­age girls to pursue higher level studies in math and sci­ence. Activities are led by Saint Mary's mathematics, biology, chemistry and nurs­ing students. 
All middle and junior high schools from five Indiana counties were invited to nomi­nate seventh grade girls who score in the top five percent in national tests and who show promise and interest in sci­ence, mathematics or medi­cine as a potential future career. More than 100 girls from 25 private and public schools will attend the event with their parents. 
Co-sponsort~d by the Bayer Corporation, the event will be held from 8:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. 


Achievement Award Program 
Each year The Summit Group, a rapidly growing systems and computer consulting firm, grants several $1000.00 scholarships to junior college students across the country. Our scholarships reward students f<>r their achievements in school thus far and helps to expose them to the field of systems integration and business systems consulting. 
Requirements 

-Graduate in December, 1998 or in spring or summer, 1999 -GPA 3.2 or above -Working towards a bachelor's degree in computer science, management int(mnation systems, computer information systems, systems analysis, decision science/systems or any engineering discipline. -Strong communication skills. Problem solving ability. A positive attitude. Well rounded interests. A drive to excel. A desire to work in the systems integration/consulting field. 
Achievement Award Process 
Each applicant is required to submit a personal resume, most recent transcript, and an essay of interest, "Why I am interested in a career in systems integration." 
sllMMnG~w 
-----INC 

The deadline for applications is April 15, 1998 Please mail applications to : 
The Summit Group, Inc. Human Resources 

Achievement Award Scholarship PO. Box 5106 Mishawaka, IN 46546-51 06 visit our website at www.summitgroup.com 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist
-


Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold or Platinum. 
-

Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
-



John M~ Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Friday, February 27, 1998 page 9 
u. 
~~~f@~ ~(JJ) (}U(Jl)[fJ1f@[f~ Got news? :Ml~rrlh@lt(f)U~~@ 



Call 1-5323
Invites You To Our 

GRAND OPENING & OPEN HOUSE SAT•• FEB. 28 • 1 0-6 
FREE Coffee & Cookies. Over 10 different vendors with • Incense • Figurines • Macrame • 
• T-shirts • Used Books • Aromatherapy 
& Massage Oiis • Jewelry • Toys • Beautiful Florals & Lots More DOOR PRIZE DRAWINGS 
1408 ELWOOD AVE SOUTH BEND 219-234-9964 

More class events coming your way­look for calendars posted around your dorm. 




JUNIORS
Thursday n1gflt: 
University Park 
9. 

Theatre . 30 pm 
Movie: The Wedding Singer star­ring Adam Sandler. Big savings on usual UP price. Buy your $4 ticket in the dining halls 

Fd~idC:Ynne~.ight: 
Hockey Game: 7:00 pm, JACC NO vs. Northern Michigan. First 50 Juniors to gate 1 0 recieve free tickets. Special Junior Class cheering section!!!!! 
Look for all kinds of fun free stuf f ! . 

Convention bans Texas church for gay support 
Associated Press church's acceptance of homo­sexuals into its ministry and DALLAS, TEX. congregation. 
The Baptist General "We commend the church Convention of Texas on for their ministry, and we feel Tuesday expelled an Austin that churches should minister church that actively supports [to homosexuals]," Davenport practicing homosexuals and said. "But ministering to is dif­has a gay deacon. ferent than an affirmation of, 
The convention's 180-mem-and we interpret [the church's ber executive board supported activities] to be an affirmation a motion to disassociate itself of." from the University University Baptist Baptist Church. Pastor Larry
Last month, 'WE CANNOT APPROVE Bethune said convention offi-OF CHURCHES he doesn't cials learned that understand 
the church's web ENDORSING HOMOSEXUAL 
the distinc­site mentions its PRACTICE AS BIBLICALLY tion. affiliation with LEGITIMATE' "I don't 
the convention. feel very"We cannot commended approve of 
PASTOR CHARLES DAVENPORT as a chur_ch
churches endors­for our mm­ing homosexual istry to gays practice as biblically legiti­and lesbians today," Bethune mate," said Tulia pastor said after the vote. "The con­
Charles Davenport, head of the vention has an odd way of committee that drafted the showing it." motion. The moderate-controlled 
The church has had a tenu­Texas convention and more 
ous relationship with the con-conservative Southern Baptistvention since Convention have long butted it ordained an heads. Russell Dilday. presi­openly gay dent of the Texas group, denied deacon, Hans that the vote was designed to Venable, in placate conservative members 1994. The threatening to break away.church spon­The Austin church has a long sors and history of feuds with Baptistinvites homo­organizations. sexuals to In 1948, it was disavowed byparticipate in the Austin Baptist Convention Open Circle, a when it allowed blacks to sit in ministry for the same pews with whites. In gays and les­the early '70s, the church was bians. criticized for ordaining women 
Executive as deacons. board mem­Bethune said he believes the bers insisted congregation will likely respect their vote the wishes of the Texas con­was not a vention in removing any refer­condemna­ence to the group from their tion of the web site and literature. 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan -Hunan -Cantonese • American ) Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(219) 272-7376 • 130 Dixleway South 
(U.S. 31 In Roseland) at Howard Johnson's, South Bend, IN 


Attention Students 
Don't forget to vole 
For Closs Officers and Off-Campus Co-Presidents and Off-Campus Senator 
On Campus: 11 :00-1 :00 1n your dorm Off Campus: 3:00-5:00 mLafortune 
Ail Freshmon, Sophomores ond Juniors con vole for Class Officers ond any student who will be living Off-Campus for 98-99 or seniors currently living Off-Campus may vote for Off-Campus positions. 
Brought to you by:Studenl.*Government 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Friday, February 27, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OfFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Edhor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor. . ........ Heather Cock> Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ...................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor... ..... . ..... Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager.. .. ......... Michad Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller..... .. ....................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the indepcndcm newspaper published by the smdcms of the University of Notre Dame Ju Lac and Saint Mary's College. h docs not necessarily rdlect rhe policies of the administration ofeither institution. The new~ is reported a.s accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor~ in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Ediror, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Edi[Qr, Sainr Mary's Ediror, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the amhors, and nor neces­.o.arily thm.c ofTh~ Observer. Vi(wpoint space is available ro all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Editor-in-Chief Managing Editor News/Photo Spores Accent/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Viewpoint Cenerallnformation 
Observer Phone Lines 
631-4542  Business Office  
631-4541  Advertising  
631-5323  Systems  
631-4543  Office Manager  
631-4540  Fax  
631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  
631-7471  Ad E-Mail  

631-5313 631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-7471 631-6927 Viewpoinc.l @nd.edu observcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 


• CAPITOL COMMENTS 
Making the Grade at Notre Dame During Lent 
With the beginning of Lent, most prac­ticing Catholics are preparing for Easter by focusing on spiritual disciplines and rellections of faith. It is a time to grade our lives and to attempt to improve the 
Gary Caruso 

quality of our existence. Consequently, it is the perfect time to rellcct on the good deeds that have pleased us and those events that may have disappointed us. 
At this time last year, this column con­tained a critieism of the choices listed on the annual national alumni board ballot. Of the 16 candidates last year, all were white males and four were from the class of 1969. This year, the balance of class representation and diversity of the candidates-ethnicity, gender and earner representation -is the epitome of careful thought and consideration. The alumni office and current national board selection committee deserve a perfect score and an "A-plus." 
The Notre Dame Magazine, evolving under new editorial leadership, simulta­neously pleases and disappoints, rating a low "B" grade. The positive side of the magazine is its content which tends to be more thought-provoking and challenges the reader with clements of controversy -single pregnant women and the cam­pus policy regarding gay students. However, excluding the autumn photo spread showing the campus, the overall layout and design tend to be a bit too cute and chaotic. The magazine should also periodically print its requirements for accepting articles and solicit from its readers, like television talk shows solicit from their viewers, "!las your mother kicked you out of the house but lets your brother or sister remain while doing exactly what you did? Then call us ... " 
The Notre Dame athletic department earns an overall flat "C" grade. First, while not increasing the ticket prices of football tickets last year (hooray), the department still hides behind the generic "Ticket Committee" signature (who's he?) on correspondence announcing bad news (boo). It should either list the com­mittee members on the stationary or have one person responsible for signing such letters. Secondly, moving student sections at basketball games to avoid camera coverage and eliminating intro­ductions because the infantile student body yells "sucks" at the opponents are desperate measures to preserve the uni­versity's precious "holier than thou" public relations reputation. 
Notre Dame's financial departments, collectively, are on the verge of an "A" grade, but are currently earning an "incomplete." The unbelievable return of over 50 percent for the endowment in the last four years is partly due to the fantastic rise in the stock market ... which all of us liberals know is due to a Democrat in the White House. However, with the new ambitious fundraising drive currently under way, a final grade can only be determined after the finances are administered. In the past, too many times have the public relations aspect of these types or drives focused on scholar­ships and other direct aid while the final results have not adequately satisfied those goals. 
The Notre Dame security department, tackling an onslaught of additional traffic at football games and massive construc­tion on campus, deserves a hard-earned "A-plus" this year. Their responsibilities dramatically increased overnight, and they have risen to the challenge. Differences some may have with policy matters come from university adminis­trators, not top police officials. 
Finally, the overall Notre Dame admin­istration (the top policy makers who tra­ditionally dwell in the Dome offices) needs to be graded on three categories -student life, student policy and univer­sity image. Collectively, the three unfor­tunately average a mediocre "C" grade. 

Student life hovers between a low "B" and a high "C" grade. While many work hard to interact with students and over­see student programs, the fact remains that the university's phobia against coed­ucational housing and alcohol use dra­matically reduces the quality of student life. It is easier to push those issues off­campus in South Bend or with semester programs abroad than to devise innova­tive answers. 
Student policy itself barely squeaks by with a "D" grade. The willy-nilly approach to student organizational recognition is one fiasco that is still play­ing out on campus. It appears that as long as a group is not controversial with Church teaching, it can usc facilities and enjoy support on an ad hoc basis. In an effort to maintain a public relations image consistent with the conservative, hard-core element of the Catholic Church, policy makers remain resistant to many changes. 
The image of Notre Dame is a good solid "B" grade among moderate Catholics and a solid "A" grade among conservative Catholics. Unfortunately, it slips only to a "C" grade with the rest of American society. U.S. News and World Report consistently shows that Notre Dame's ranking from deans and chancel­lors or other institutions is the lowest among the top 25, consequently holding NO closer to the bottom than to the top ten. Only NO's recent burst in endow­ment size has kept the university on solid ground in the rankings. 
The national image problem in part stems from the "holier than thou" impression ND gives by making it's acad­emic standards higher for athletes and for its unique football television contract. While the student body is among the most intelligent in the country, the acad­emic community does not regard NO as highly as it may deserve. Some attribute binge drinking on campus as a result of the pressures ND places on its students in an effort to overcome such academic 
slights. 
More disturbing to alumni is the feel­ing that they are slowly being excluded from the university unh~ss they can maintain a high profile through high finances. Many of the alumni who once lived, breathed and died Notre Dame everything, now ignore and actually dis­like many aspects of what the University has become. Some of those feelings may stem from rapid expansion and growth of the physical facilities on campus. llowcvcr, much more has to do with the lack of diplomacy from campus policy­makers when addressing alumni -ease in point, the ambiguous "Ticket Committee" signature. 
Everyone wants to fen! special. and alumni are no exception. Whiln some demand babying, most need to feel like they had some input or were treated on a personal basis. As long as policy-mak­ers continue to avoid tact and diplomacy in favor of a "this is the way it is" approach, alienation will thrive. 
Lent can be a time of great cleansing and self-examination. It is a time to rellect and try to improve oneself. While many attempt to do the very best they can, sometimes constructive criticism can offer eye-opening revelations. 
It would be wonderful for every aspect of Notre Dame's operations to recnive an "A" grade. The goal of everyone af1iliat­ed with the university is perfection. However, for those who believe that "A" grades abound on campus, Lent has arrived just in time. I Jopefully, a year from now, the university's GPA can improve to qualify for the Dean's List. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. can be reached at dchottline@hotmail. com. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
THATMA/<:?9~A.N6.R'X' 70 Ji?t3Va!lJ{ffl! 
tuHICH seNlJSME INTDA /I<RJTATIOMAN­
~SPIRAL., 8/3CAIJ5e Gi31<,9/AME IT!; NOTflf3R. PAL/t-Tl F/NA£­ANI? /?&SPAll<! 
t->: I 5/NK INTO l?E35PAIR / 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
" A woman without a man 1-\is like a fish without a bicycle." 
-Anonymous 




VIEWPOINT
Friday, February 27, 1998 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Does Money Cause Athletes' Behavior? Generalizations 
As a Pointcast U-Wire subscriber, I  ning Czechs), acted immaturely in  write home about either. At least in  
am usually very impressed with the  smashing up a hotel room. Mike Tyson  sports, if someone isn't any good, they  
quality of the editorial writing that it  bit a man's ear off. Latrell Spreewell  lose their jobs, with one exception ­ 
features. The majority of the columns  choked his coach.  Danny Ferry. Only on occasion does a  
are well-written, witty, well-devel­ All the aforementioned are rich,  student have the privilege to meet a  
oped, and informative. The articles  true, but is it the money that makes  gifted professor, one with an astound­ 
are written about thought-provoking  them act like children? I prefer to say  ing genius. Most profs are just good  
topics, and take a stance on an issue  that rich people are no more inclined  students who decided that they would  
either to persuade or expose and  to act like kids the·n the rest of society.  rather spend the rest of their life in a  
enlighten readers to their views.  Rich athletes are no more mature than  classroom than in an office.  
Unfortunately, this is not the case with  poor athletes, or the average college  Professional ball players, conversely,  
your article "Overpaid Athletes Behave  student for example. If you recall cor­ are not just good players who like to  
Like Children" (Feb. 25).  rectly, an Austrian snowboarder, not a  play. They are gifted with extraordi­ 
I felt that the topic was trite and the  millionaire, smashed up his hotel, as  nary athletic ability, and only the true  
author's conclusion and stance served  well. Damage is a regular occurrence  athletic geniuses can partake. If those  
to restate the obvious, commonplace,  at the same college parties that the  "most educated people" used their  
non-intellectual opinion. Moreover. as  author may or may not attend. What  knowledge to start a corporation, I  
I read. I got the impression that the  I'm saying is that athletes are just a  think you'd find their salaries compa­ 
author wasn't overly informed or  microcosm of all people in the same  rable to an NBA player (average salary  
enlightened about the issue she was  age cohort. Their financial stability is  of a CEO of Fortune 500 company:  
writing about, but merely regurgitat­ unimportant.  $33 million).  
ing what she had heard without think­ And about their finances ...  Like I said, I agree that athletes are  
ing. It was almost as if she stood on a  "Professors, probably the most educat­ overpaid and sometimes act imma­ 
table in the dining hall, and  ed people in America, don't make  ture; I just feel that it is more benefi­ 
announced to the room that she  squat for passing their knowledge onto  cial to analyze something from the  
believed that the food wasn't very  us."  non-popular perspective, rather than  
good.  How many professors have you had  just restating popular opinion.  
Athletes and actors are overpaid, I  that are bad at what they do? I have  
agree. A few Team USA hockey play­ boring, uninspired, and unintelligent  Jeff Catalano  
ers. who happened to be professionals  teachers for many of my classes.  Miami University  
Uust like the members of six other  Granted, those are the exceptions, but  February 26, I 998  
teams, including the gold medal win­ · most of my teachers aren't anything to  


Humanism is Part of Building Design 
Like many of us in the School of Architecture, I applaud the news that a student team under Professors Chang and Amico have achieved recognition in the world of engineering for a design to stabilize skyscrapers against movement due to winds (The Observer, Wednesday Feb. 25). Special praise goes to Professor Chang for his original concept, which no doubt will have its practical applications. 
However. in the interest of academic dialogue, I would like to point out that the high-rise building is increasingly under fire as responsible for much of the urban blight that has affiicted cities around the world. By concentrating huge num­bers of people in a single location within the city, skyscrapers demand vast parking areas, consume absurd amounts of energy and are enormously expensive to maintain. Countless neighborhoods have been devastated by the fascination with the tall building. including our familiar South Bend. Once a vibrant urban setting with a healthy mix of commercial, civic and residential functions, South Bend has been transformed into a wilderness of oppressive towers and asphalt fields. The ND skyscraper team's achievement is certainly of great engi­neering importance, but serves to further a bad architectural idea with serious social and environmental consequences. 
ND student projects designed according to principles of tradi­I should also point out that this is not the first time that ND tional architecture and urbanism. 
architecture students have achieved international recognition -It is important to maintain the high levels of academic within the current. traditionally-oriented curriculum. An achievement within the school. At the same time our efforts 
unusual number of student projects have been honored must concentrate as much as possible on the development of recently by being exhibited in international exhibitions in the a humane and sustainable vision for the cities and communi­
context of major professional conferences. I cite the 1995 ties of the future. 
'Urban Renaissance' exhibit in Bologna, Italy, and the 'Art of 
Building Cities' exhibition in Chicago, and this year's 'The Richard Economakis 
Other Modern' symposium in London. Numerous internation­
Assistant Professor, School ofArchitecture 
al publications have featured (and are preparing to feature) 
February 26, 1998 


The Pill's Abortifacieat 
l take issue with Bridget Thomas' Clai'ifiqatlon of tM contraceptive functioning of thepill. Ms. Thomas fails to address fully Helen Reilly's concern that because the pill alters the uterine lining; it can (and sometimes does) cause the destruction of fertilized eggs;One of the functions of the pill is toactas an a ·e11t. 
Using the Physicians' Deskfteferenc~. thed several different brands ofthe pill. The 1 Pharmacology section, which describes howthe drug prevents pregnancy, was similar, if not identical, for each brand I checked. According to the Ortho~Novum entry, "although the primary mechanisl!l ofJhis action is inhibition of ovulation, other altera~io · · de . changes in the cervical muttl$. which inc the culty of sperm entry into the uterus, and ... endometrium (which reduce the likelihood ofimplanta, tion)" (Physicians' Desk Reference 1998, p. 2034}. 
While Ms. Thomas is correct that the pill'sptimary function is to prevent ovulation, som.eti ..vvlation occurs. And, although the changes inc ... ucus increase the difficulty of sperm entry b'lt .uterus, sometimes sperm entry occurs. Therefore, 5ometimes the sperm fertilizes the egg resulting in a human life. Furthermore. because the pill also alters the uterine lining, it reduces the likelihpod that this huUian life will implant. Sometimes all of these fupctt lsince 
there is a "failure rate" of1 out oft,OO < .. ····en who will become pregnant despite perfect use ofthepill (Physicians' Desk Reference 1998, pg. 2034): 
----~-1 
of ND Students Degrading Exaggeration 
This is written in response to Mr. Daniel Matejek's attack on the "normal" Notre Dame students. For those of you that did not have the extreme privilege of reading Mr. Matejek's piece ofwork, he basically characterizes "most nor­mal" ND students as "confused and hyp­ocritical," as well as "very lost and like it like that." 
. Well, I found these accusations to be pretty bold ... as well as grossly over exaggerated. College is a time of change, regardless of where you attend. During college, most people use the time to change their perspectives on them­selves, as well as the world that sur­rounds them. Inherent in this process is some confusion, as one figures out the direction in which to take his/her life. But, Mr. Matejek, you imply that this is unique to the normal Notre Dame stu­dent, which could not be farther from the truth. 
In addition, Mr. Matejek, your article possesses an implied degradation of the average Notre Dame student. This may be a product of not only your unreason­ably high expectations when enrolling here, but probably you sheer ignorance. Sorry, Mr. Matejek, but you have not even lived here for an entire year, and therefore have no basis to make gener­alizations about the students here. 
In my four years, I have found the stu­dents at Notre Dame to be outstanding people. In general, they have dynamic and interesting personalities, are very caring for their fellow human beings, serious about learning (to some extent ... we all have lapses), and form a unique family-type atmosphere. Perhaps Mr. Matejek would like examples. Well, I know a good number of seniors who could go out into the work force and make a great deal of money. 
Instead, they are applying for the ACE program or another form of service because that's what they WANT to do. I look to how everyone has rallied togeth­er as a family in the aftermath of Justin Brumbaugh's death, including not only Justins' friends but also those who never had the opportunity to meet him. I look at one of my roommates, who will disregard studying for his own present exam to take the time to tutor another individual in a class that he had in the past. I look at times when I've been up until almost 6 a.m. on a Saturday night discussing politics, race relations, and the educational system with my fellow doormates in order to hear their differ­ent and insightful perspectives. At the same, I also see students who can have fun witli their friends whether going to a movie, making jokes, or going to senior bar to hang out. 
Your article, Mr. Matejek, makes Notre Dame students sound like some sort of self-centered, malicious individu­als. This kind of implication makes me sick. Don't take it personally, but you're too new to Notre Dame to start making accusations of the general student popu­lation. Instead of criticizing the other 7,600 of us undergraduates, I suggest you find a different avenue to channel your efforts in attempting to feel content here at Notre Dame. Give your fellow students a chance ... it doesn't happen overnight, or necessarily in your first year, but eventually you'II find the happy medium, Mr. Matejek. 
Remember one thing ... you don't change Notre Dame ... it changes you. 
Michael Quadcini 
Senior, Keenan Hall 
. February 20, 1998 


...... 




ACCENT
page 12 Friday, February 27, 1998 

I 
Notre Dame and Saint Mary's host a variety of events this wee! 
1
Chinese Gofden CDraaon 7\cf'o&ats swine into action 
By TIM BORGEN 
Accent Writer 
SUB sources have confirmed that this Friday 
night, a troupe of high-flying humans will enter 
Stepan Center and promptly proceed to blow N o t r e Dame stu­dents' minds through the sub­lime aeri­al spin­ning of their bod­ies. This team of profes­s i o n a I m i n d ­blowers has been c o d e named the Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats, Photos courtesy of the Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats. bu t i n 

actuality, that also happens to be their real name. Conducting their 26th world circuit this year, 
the group incorporates balancing, jug­
gling, dance, comedy, and magic ­
often simultaneously. The disci­
pline is rooted in Oriental phi­
losophy, dancing and tradi­tion. For more than 27 cen­turies,_Chinese acrobats have been performing to the amazement of 
Chinese audiences, and now our wonderful mod­ern world of open eco­nomic and cultural exchange allows us to truly become a part of 

history by attending. No one will insure these people. Life insur­ance agencies laugh them in the face. What they do may result in serious injury or death. But there is method to their· madness. These sea­soned professionals have gone through extensive auditions to be a part of the group. Those who were cut either died or were rendered incapable. 
The Chinese Golden Dragon Acrobats have won 
the National Association of Campus Activities Entertainer of the Year award seven out of the last 10 years. They have appeared at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Germany's Elspe festival, the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Caesar's Palace, and the Seattle Children's Festival. Upon inspection of the troupe's pass­ports, one would find the stamps of no less than 65 countries. Florida's Sea World park visitors have given the acrobats Best Attraction votes sec­ond in number only to Shamu. Whether you are into theater, dance, music, or just an interested stu­dent, pencil the Dragons into your schedule tonight. The show starts at 7 p.m. in Stepan Center and tickets cost $3. 
Laugh it Up with Humor Artists 
By KRIST! KUTSCH Accent Editor 
This weekend a new comedic outlet will be offered on campus. 
It's not the Keenan Revue or Mr. Stanford, but it promises to be just as funny; or maybe more. 
The Humor Artists, a student-run orga­nization that focuses on "sketch comedy," is performing Saturday night at 8 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
Denis Hurley, king of HA, described the event as a combination of musical paro­


dies. stand-up comedy, skits on campus and national life and movie parodies. The 
"Bugeye" (HA mascot)

show will last about an hour and is free to the public. 
Hurley said. 
Humor Artists has had trouble with membership in the past, although this year the club has 10 members from all classes. Nine different dorms are rep­resented in the group from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's campuses. 
The group usually offers one show each semester, although Saturday's show is the first show this year. In addition, HA will perform an improvisational show on April 28. The theme of the show will be a mystery, in which the HA actors take on the roles of the suspects. This show focuses on audience inter­action in order to solve the mystery. 
Last year's improvisational show centered around the murder of Kathie Lee Gifford on a cruiseline. 
"We're a strongly supported campus comedy group that just provides humorous escapes for students," Hurley said. "We really want some recogni­tion and for people to attend our shows." 

"It's like Saturday Night Live, except funnier," Hurley said. He compared the group to "The State," a Harvard-originated comedy group that used to have a show on MTV. 
Humor Artists originated in the spring of 1995, when then-graduate student Mark Marino addressed the need for a comedy group. Hurley clarified the distinction between HA and the other campus comedy group Irish Accent. 
"The difference is that Irish Accent is a improv group. We are primarily a pre-prepared skit group that offers free entertainment. There is no other group like it." 
Some of the .skits in this year's show include a football game between the dining hall ladies and members of the Notre Dame football team; an interview with Jim Colletto and a James Bond film. 
Hurley describes the show as "good, usually clean fun." 
It centers on "poking fun at campus happening, and abstract scenarios," 
~---~ ~-­

.. -------­
•.. 




B UTS 
"STRONG BODIES 

[N THJE SlPOTJL[GHT~~~ 
Jack Mooney: The Man behind the Legend 
By DAN LUZIETTI and TOM STUDEBAKER Spons Writers 
If there is a backbone to the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts, it is Jack Mooney. 
Mooney was born in South Bend in 1912 and has been around boxing and Bengal Bouters all his life. 
"Right now I am 50, 60, 70, 80, no, 85 years old, and I have been out here at Notre Dame with the Bengal Bouts for 52 years helping out." Mooney said. "I have been a referee, a judge, a trainer, a water-boy, and anything they ever needed." 
Though Mooney played sandlot football in grade school, he soon took to the sport of box­ing which was tremendously popular in the 1920's. lie and his friends would put on a box­ing match behind the old Studebaker factory. 
"At noon, when the people came out, we would put on a boxing match and come away with about 15 cents apiece for three rounds," Mooney recalls. 
He participated in his first boxing match at the old South Bend YMCA at the age of 13. Four years later, Mooney won the first of his two con­secutive 147-pound titles of the Golden Gloves Boxing championships of South Bend. In his attempt to three-peat, Mooney fondly recalls, "I was beat by a farmer from Granger, Indiana ... and he became a millionaire." 
Mooney also traveled to the 1929 National Golden Gloves tournament in Chicago. Participants would box twice in one night for two nights, with a championship bout coming with only one days rest. He won the first two bouts but came up short in his third fight. 
In 1930, Mooney came home and worked in the Studebaker factory where he would contin­ue working for over 30 years. He helped manu­facture a car called the "Rockne," named after a close personal friend and Notre Dame football legend. 
"When I was a kid, I used to sell papers. Every time I walked by Union Station, Rockne would buy a paper from me. He would give me 50 cents for .a three cent paper. That was the biggest thrill that I ever got," Mooney remem­bers. 
Rockne always showed Mooney respect. To this day, Mooney is trying to thank him for his kindness. He regularly goes to Rockne's grave to trim the grass and place a few flowers. 
While working for Studebaker, Mooney was a member of the famous Studebaker boxing team. It was boxing on this team that produced one of his favorite memories. 
"In about 1931. I fought in the Studebaker tournament championship. I had to fight three different guys, and guess what, I won the cham­pionship of Studebaker and I was declared as a hero," Mooney recollects. "Life Magazine took my picture and gave me 50 bucks. They put my picture in the magazine advertising Studebaker cars." 
In 1938, at the age of 26, Mooney became a professional boxer. On two different occasions, Mooney was on the same fight card as a young Joe Louis and a young Tony Zale. 
After about five years as a professional boxer, Mooney hung up his gloves to become an assis­tant to the Notre Dame Bengal Bouts program. For more than 50 years, Mooney has been somewhere between a best friend, father or grandfather to each of the 100 or so Bengal Bouters who participate in the Notre Dame box­ing tournament annually. 
Mooney has taught thousands of kids the art of boxing. He instructs young men on how to handle both physical and mental problems they 
see MOONEY I page 4 

fiGHT, THAT WEAK BODIES MAY BE .NOURISHED." 





K. l.oPFZ: Mellin 
A. KruUA: 
Mellin 
4 
vs. 
DAVID MURPHY 
After receiving a bye in the first round, Mellin rolled past dangerous David Bann. Only a sophomore, Mellin does not have a lot of ring experience but makes up for it with his athleticism and savvy. 
might just be the most improved tighter in the tournament. A year ago, he was embarrassed in the first 
This year, he has rolled into the knocking otT Rick Johnson and Dennis Joyce along the way. Both fighters are aggressive and are Murphy has a strong 
and a clear cut height advantage. However, Mellin's power inside and relentless pursuit should prove to be the difference. -Mike Day 


DAVID SEERVELD 
PICKS 
. . -: ~. '.~~ w' ·\·~· . ~ 
fights with quite a bit of levity (e.g. his nickname "the Prancing Pixie"), don't let him fool you. 
He is a composed and patient fighter with experience in the finals who won't let the overzealous attack that freshmen tend to bring draw him in. 
Still, Leatherby is athletic and, more importantly, resilient. He won't let the antics of the upperclassman intimidate him. 
-Betsy Baker 



Cardona· 
K. LoPEZ: LaDUke 
A. KRIUA: 
Cardona 
annihilat" round, C final mat ultimate "defense If LaD intimidat would lo old-fashi 

7 
vs. 
NORM 
RANS BEZNOSKA 

INJURY SIDELINES RANS BEFORE TITLE FIGHT 
This one was supposed to be one of the most anticipated fights of these Bouts. 
Hans a two-time captain and two-time finalist had a slow start in his first round but picked up strength in the semis. The captain looked ready to pounce on a championship title 
Beznoska a two-time finalist lost out to Pat Maciariello last year. He appeared hungry in the first round, devouring his two opponents with each fight ending being called early. 
Unfortunately, this matchup will not occur. Rans suffered injuries to both hands and will not be able to step in the ring for his final Bengal Bouts appearance. 
-Kathleen Lopez 

A. KluLI.A: 
Gaffuey 
7 

vs. 
CHRIS DOBRANSKI 
faces the challenge of all 

on Friday. He will try to unseat two-time champion Brian Gaffney, who also happens to be the hottest fight­er in the tournament. 
strengths are his power his ability to take a hit. Those will be tested against the 

In two fights, Gaffney has recorded two technical knockouts. In last year's finals. he embarrassed former champion Mike Debiasi, taking him out in less than three minutes. 
Dobranski cannot be intimidated, or it's over before it started. Gaffney just has to be Gaffney, and the rest will take care of itself. -Mike Day 

Homand lyimpressi

PlCK~. _
this one is 
' A ...~ ~ 
ence, Hom1 ';l"~:~f~. is also a bi1 
~~ . ,.,.. 
:H~ !'~ .... 
of his oppd 
.·a~::8~it: Prince i~ morn on l
Rornanchek 
Hownver, K LoPEZ: -. takes to b~ 
Bornane
Romanchek I 
stand earl. 
A. KRrrlA: in the fight1 training ad 
Romancheck 
tor late Romanche 




















3 
4 
vs. 

vs. 

SEAN MICHAEL SHARPE MAGUIRE 
This is deary the spotlight battle in this 

Both Sharpe and Maguire squeezed year's Bouts. Will and Molina are two of 
through the ropes in their semifinal victo­the most well-trained and fundamentally 
ries as they both won on split decisions. sound boxers in the program, which is 
Sharpe has the size and experience ironic because they espouse completely 
advantage in the 140-pound final, but different fighting styles. 
Maguire defeated a !inky Tom Cronley in Will uses the more intelligent, patient 
the semis, whose reach could knock out the approach, while Molina goes for shear 
ringside judges. speed and power. Will is a two-time 
Sharpe is a captain which is a testament champion as a junior so he knows what it 
to his ability, but Maguire is no rookie, los­takes to win, especially against Molina, . 
ing on split decisions in the semifinals two who he beat last year for the title. 
years in a row, last year to Lucas Molina. that weak bodies Still, this is it for the senior Molina. As 
Sharpe was not in top form in the semis, long as he maintains his composure and 
while Maguire appeared to be. This one does not let Will dictate the fight, this one 
could go either way and will probably be a
" 
will be a matter of a few punches. 
question of endurance. 
-Betsy Baker -Betsy Baker 

'c J. "Nappy" Napolitano 
6 
6 
vs. 
vs. 

CHIP JIM CARDONA 
ADRIAN 
FARRELL SUR 
vs. finesse. Technician vs. 
Watch for this fight to be a technical Molloy has yet to be tested in his first uke, a junior captain, bare­
one. Farrell will be coached by his father two fights. His solid performance in the his semifinal bout with Tim 
from the corner. In the other corner will semifmals bodes well for him. rnA<mU•~, he has the experience 
be Biolchini's brothers -this fight might Sur looked solid in his first fight but he and is used to fighting the big 
come down to the coaching. advanced to the finals by default. These Farrell relies heavily on his jab and he couple days of rest could give him the ~ is still out on Cardona. After 
likes to control the ring. Biolchini has ng Brendan Reilly in the first 
numerous weapons to throw at Farrell. Molloy wants his first title and this ll"dona was exposed in his semi­
This will be a steady struggle for three could be his turn to shine. On the other :h with David Wiltse. He is the 
rounds, so look for the strongest to pre­hand, Sur makes his first appearance in streetfighter, and the term 
vail. Endurance is the key to success in the finals in his senior year. has yet to enter his vocabulary. 
this fight. Look for Molloy's patience and ring con­is patient and avoids being 
Biolchini wants nothing. more than to trol to give him the slight edge. Sur defi­it's his fight to lose. Cardona 
join his father and brothers as a champi­nitely has the height and reach advantage nothing more than a good, 
on. Farrell is seeking his second title in in this match. brawl. 
his fourth trip to the fmals. 

-Kathleen Lopez -Kathleen Lopez -Mike Day 

8 


vs. 
DAN 

DAVE PETER PRINCE 
BUTZ RYAN 

If this match up came down to experi­
Despite their aggressive tendencies, thus far in the tournament, so 
and Prince have been equal­
Butz and Hebert are two of the most tech­ence, Ryan wouldn't have a chance. After all, the freshman has just two fights to his
nically sound fighters in Bengal Bouts. is the clear favorite. He 
call. Based on experi­
Butz's experience and powerful right name and is one ofjust three freshmen to make it this far in the tournament. Ryan
hand make him dangerous. He has yet to 

be challenged in this year's fights. has relied on his endurance and tenacity puncher and likes to take care 
early. conditioned and relies 
Hebert emerged from nowhere last to catch opponents by surprise. than his counterpart. 
year and has picked up right where he As his previous fights have shown, Monahan is a bruiser who will not back 
left off. He is extremely aggressive, yetdoes possess the power it down from a challenge. His power and

his defense is difficult to crack. explosiveness are unmatched but condi-'
SU<~CflSS[IUJ in this division. 
Opponents tend to be intimidated by his

must come out and take a 
vicious demeanor. tioning could be a problem ifthis one goesIf it comes down to points later three rounds. 
This fight should go down to the wire conditioning could play a fac­
he could be in trouble. Prince's 
and points could matter in a close fight. Ryan won't be able to catch Monahan by surprise, but Monahan will most likely 
Butz's experience and technical skills have to go the distance to walk away vic­ded he can withstand could prove to be the difference. 
power early. 
-Mike Day torious. -Mike Day -Mike Day 
,-. 
TOM BIOLCHINI 


ANDREW HEBERT 
-
Friday, February 27, 1998 



Mooney 
continued from page 1 
might oncounter later in life. 
"Boxing is groat -that is why I am down hem. I liko to toach these boys how to handle them­Sfllves." Mooney explains. 
"That way. if someone wants to g11t tough with them. they know how to put up their dukes and do a littln lighting." 
Mooney gives his all to the eompotitors and linds it very important to guide them in any way possible. lie understands how important a role model ean bn -a lesson he learnnd from Hoek no. 
Who better to attest to Moonoy's importance than some of this year's Bengal Bouts captains. 
"Evory day bnforn practice, .Jack always has a word of eneouragoment for us," said senior captain Lucas Molina. "Part of having Jaek down here keeps thfl Knuto Hoekne spirit alivo. lie was one of the origi­nals." 
"Jaek is the main man down here," junior captain Brian Gall'ney said. "If you are having a bad day. you eome down here 

The Observer • BENGAL BOUTS page 4 

and talk with Jack for 10 min­utes, and you will leave in a bet­ter mood. It is like hanging out with your granddad every day." 
"He is a great guy to have around," senior captain Sean Sharpe said. "Jack is a land­mark of Bengal Bouts. He is always hem to tie up our gloves or just time us on the ·bag. Anything we need. he is down here for us." 
Mooney has been with the Bengal Bouts since the begin­ning. He knows the importance of the money they raise. and the good that it does in Bangladesh. Over the 50 years. he has wit­nessed the growth of the Bouts and the increasing prominence that it has on campus. 
"Right now, we are doing mueh morn with Bengal Bouts than we did 50 years ago." Mooney says. "We are getting more money to send to the little kids in Bangladesh. Every little bit eounts. and the last couple of years we have done very well." 
For his dedication and hard work for over 50 years, Jack Mooney has been named the inscription on the first award. most to the youth of America by has been invaluable to the1998 Bengal Bouts Award win­given in 1948, recognized example and eompetitive spir­Bengal Bouts program for so ner. The Bengal Bouts Award 

Bishop Bernie Shield of it." many years and has touched so was instituted 50 years ago and Chicago, founder of the National This award is just a small many lives. that one can onlyhas been presented annually on CYO Athletic Program as an token of appreciation for all that hope his contributions will gothe night of the finals. The individual who "contributed the Mooney is responsible for. He on for years to come. 


Annual· 

' 
l 
The Observer/John Daily 

-Sophomore J.R. Mellin, shown here throwing a punch in his semifinal match with David Bann, will take on Dave Murphy in the finals. 
Editors: Mike Day and Elizabeth Baker Assistant Editors: Kathleen Lopez, Allison KriUa Design: Mark DeBoy 

Photography: John Daily Senior Dave Butz had no problem disposing of Andrew Riederer (left) in his semifinal match. On I Friday, the heavyweight will take on freshman Peter Ryan in the finals. 

---~---------~-~----~---------------------------------.....-------1 
• \ ( 1: , ,. ,, ,c ~ ., r ' t• 

ACCE-NT 
page 13 

nd to take your mind off of those midsemester tests and papers 
FaOit\ITUDIMT TO PL4~WaiGHT: HICkl' 6 114LOYI,i44M4GIR' .,. 4aaiYII 4T NOTRE D4it\l 
"The first song of the play is called "Death to the Grass," and it stemmed from the idea of mowing the grass in D.C," he said. 
The character Sealove in the play· is semi-autobiographical to Hicks himself. Sealove is an estranged 25-year old who returns to the suburbs of D.C., after being fired from his job on Wall Street, to mow the grass and deal with his mother and younger brother. Sealove is dissatisfied with life and wants to be inspired to do something else. 
"The play is about the suburbs and the middle class. It's about growth and love," Hicks said. 
In the play, Hicks fills the role of Sealove's younger brother Joe Joe. In one part, Joe Joe takes on the persona of a dog, in order to avoid the conflict around 
him 

"It's not the easiest role to play," Hicks said "Joe Joe is a combination of Sealove's religious past and his straight­edged past." 
Yet, after writing the play, Hicks had to produce it and attract an audience. 
"I just did it," he said. "After being in a punk-rock band, you know you can do anything."
the school paper, independently wrote fic­was published by Soft Skull. 
The first major production of "Sea-love, By KRIST! KUTSCH tion and worked at the 12th Street "Soft Skull now has on-line publishing Manager" was last summer at the OhioAccent Editor Kinko's Copy Center in downtown New and has become 
Theater. The

York City. In addition, he wrote the script a multi-media play was partAt the age of 27, Sander Hicks owns a for "Cash Cow," a play about a man who company," he of a three-daypublishing company, has numerous books works in a copy center. 'IBEGAN
said. 
festival direct­in print and writes, produces and directs Although his job at Kinko's supported In addition to THINKING ed by Hichardoff-Broadway musicals. him fmancially, it also provided the back-. writing plays and Eoin Nash­The Virginia native is the writer, pro­drop for the creation of Soft Skull short stories, ABOUT THE SUB-

Siedlecki.

ducer and director of, and actor in, the Publishing Company, owned by Hicks. Hicks also writes URBS AND THEIR Danny O'Brien, rock n' roll musical "Sealove, Manager," "I would use the machines at Kinko's to songs. 
a Notre Damewhich opened last night at Washington make my man­"The summer RELATION TO 

junior who is

Hall. The play will also run tonight and uscripts between JMU and D.C. MY 
abroad this

tomorrow at 7:30p.m. I o o k New School . I THOUGHTS WAN-
spent m 
s em e.s t e r,Although "Sealove, Manager" is played the partthe first of his plays to be fea­Washington, D.C.; DERED TO MY 
of Joe Joe intured across the country, it was ~y last OWN UFE AND ABOUT MOWING THE GRASS that produc­

writing and music are not summer m D.C. I ' tion.
new to Hicks. started writing IN D.C.' 
After this

Hicks attended James songs in the SANDER HICKS w e e k e n d ,Madison University in shed behind Hicks and hisHarrisonburg, Va., for my ho~se. I was angry about work, cast will travel to Chicago; Three Oaks,two years, where he love ... 
Mich.; Harrisonburg, Va.; and
actively engaged in In 1993, his punk band Washington, D.C. "Generally I think that writing short stories. "Subterfuge" traveled across the the play has been a success," Hicks said. 
lie became dissatisfied United States on tour. 
Parker Kindred, the drummer in "White with the political and Yet through the songs and short Collar Crime," the rock band in "Sealove,patriotic atmosphere at stories, a brilliant playwright and Manager," described Hicks as "radical but JMU during the Gulf producer was born. 
inspirational."

War, and decided to After reading Hicks' script for 
"He gets his ideas of standards of ne\ftransfer to the New "Sealove, Manager," Parks recom­America to people who forget through hisSchool for Social mended Hicks for entry in New plays, music and poems. He really per­· Hesearch in New York Dramatists, a non-profit organization ceives the world as it comes." 
City. that develops young playwrights. 
"Working with Sander has been quite
"JMU became very patriot­Entry into the society was really "a shot ·;--. 
wonderful," said Nicholas Colt, the pianoic," he said. "It was ridiculing in the arm to my play-writing," Hicks said. 
player for "Sealove, Manager." 
and alienating protesters." After admittance, New Dramatists sent "Sealove, Manager" is sponsored by theYet his change of location eventual­Hicks to a two-week writer's retreat in Notre Dame Student Players, a campusly resulted in a change of life. good," he upstate New York, a location with "pris­group that sponsors non-departmentalAt New School he studied under Suzan­admitted. tine weather," he said. 
plays.

Lori Parks. who wrote the script "Girl 6" Soft Skull started as a small scale opera­"I began thinking about the suburbs "It's a great rock n' roll play directly off for Spike Lee. tion using the equipment at Kinko's, but and their relation to D.C. My thoughts 
Broadway," said Andrew Reuland, a
"She was a great form of support," now it has 23 titles in print, including wandered to my own life, and about mow­member of the NDSP.
Hicks said, admitting that she was a cata­books by Lee Hanaldo, the lead guitarist ing the grass in D.C." 
"We really hope that a lot of people lyst in his interest in theater. for music group Sonic Youth. One of These thoughts proved to be the back­come to see the play," he stated. 
While at New School, Hicks wrote for Hick's own books, a novel called "Foam," drop for his play "Sealove, Manager." 

~--~----~----~-----­
rI ')<JJ:Il 

F ·"'''~> 1F b' ,.., "">t+t•·'lh9~.-,·,,.,
page 14 
naay, e ruary L.l, .._, zs 
...., 
•NHl • SMC BASKETBAll 
Gretzky, Rangers down Maple Leafs 
Associated Press generate an o!Tense, despite the the slot during a power play at Phoenix 4-2 Wednesday night. 
fact they had 10 power-play 3:26. He scored again at 9:08 Josef Marha assisted on the 
TORONTO opportunities, including a 5-on-after a blocked shot bounded 14th goal of the season for 
Wayne Gretzky had three 3 for 45 seconds in the second onto his stick. Lacroix and the 16th for assists as New York defeated period. Moger poked in a loose Deadmarsh. the Toronto Maple Leafs 5-2 The win elevated the Rangers' rebound at 14:13 to make it 3-0 The Avalanche, 1 for 8 on the Thursday night in John record to 18-24-16 for ninth and chase Hackett. With power play, have had at least Muekler's coaching debut with place in the Eastern Conference Trefilov in the Blackhawks' net, one power-play goal in 13 of the Hangers. while the Maple Leafs dropped Stumpe! extended the Kings' the last 15 games. The 
Muckier, who replaced the to 19-30-8 and remained in 11th lead to 4-0 at 15:39 when he Avalanche are unbeaten in 34 fired Colin Campbell during the in the Western Conference. curled through the left circle of 37 games that they have pro­Olympic break, watched his and fired low. duced a power-play goal (22-3­
Kings 7, Blackhawks 4

new team score more than The Blackhawks, who allowed 12). three goals for the first time in Glen Murray scored twice in a four goals in a period at home Nikolai Khabibulin, 1-8-1 life­14 games. four-goal first period to lead the for the first time this season, time against Colorado, stopped
Gretzky, who played for Los Angeles Kings to a 7-4 vic­finally broke through on Daze's 32 or·35 shots. The Coyotes are Muckier at Edmonton, notched tory over the Chicago power-play deflection at 19:32. winless in their last live gamesthe140th three-assist game of Blackhawks on Thursday night. The goal snapped a Chicago (0-4-1}. his career. I lis last three-assist Josef Stumpe! also scored scoreless span against Los The Avalanche led 1-0 after effort came against the Maple twice for the Kings, while Sandy Angeles of 154:12. two periods when Foote and Leafs on Jan. 12. Moger, Yanic Perreault and Perreault's power-play goal at Peter Forsberg executed a two­
Niklas Sundstrom scored Sean O'Donnell had one goal 2:14 of the second period gave man rush at 8:24 to beat twice and Alexei Kovalev, Pat apiece. the Kings a 5-1 lead. However, Khabibulin. Foote carried the LaFontaine and Adam Graves Eric Daze, Tony Amonte, Amonte scored at 9:22 and puck through center ice and also scored for the Hangers, Jean-Yves Leroux and Ethan Leroux converted a rebound at sent a return pass from who were playing their first Moreau scored for the 18:36 against Los Angeles Forsberg between Khabibulin's game after the Olympic break. Blackhawks, who surrendered goalie Frederic Chabot to make pads for his second goal of the Fredrik Modin, who scored 30 more than four goals at home it 5-3 after 40 minutes. season and first since Oct. 22 seconds apart in the second for the first time this season. In the third period, O'Donnell Phoenix wasted four powerperiod, had both goals for The Kings extended their and Stumpe! scored for the plays in the period, putting only Toronto. unbeaten streak to live games Kings, while Moreau scored for one shot on goal. 
Sundstrom scored the only (4-0-1) while sweeping their Chicago. Lacroix tipped in a shot by goal of the tirst period on the four-game series with the Marha at 2:17 of the third peri­
Avalanche 3, Coyotes 0 
power play and Kovalev put the Blackhawks. Chicago has lost od. Deadmarsh sent a hard shot Rangers up 2-0 late in the sec­three games in a row and tive Patrick Roy stopped 27 shots through the pads of Khabibulin ond with another power-play of its last six. for his 40th career shutout as at 4:36. goal. Jeff Hackett started in goal the Colorado Avalanche com­Defenses and penalty-killing 
But Modin scored his 12th for the Blackhawks, playing pleted a back-to-hack sweep of units prevailed in a scoreless and 13th goals of the season at their first game since the NHL's the Phoenix Coyotes with a 3-0 first period where Colorado's 
19:06 and 19:36 of the second Olympic break. He was victory Thursday night. best scoring chances came to tie the game. Sundstrom replaced by Andrei Trefilov at Roy, 17-1-2 with three while shorthanded. Khabibulin scored his second of the game 14:13 of the first period after shutouts lifetime against the had to make saves on Forsberg, at 3:58 of the third and allowing three goals on the Coyotes, was aided by Deadmarsh and Valeri LaFontaine added the insur­Kings' first 10 shots. Colorado's penalty-killing unity. Kamensky while Phoenix was ance goal, his first at even Los Angeles scored the Phoenix was 0 for 9 on its on its two first-period power strength in 22 games, at 5:01. game's first four goals during a power play. plays. 
Sundstrom also recorded his 12:03 span and held a 4-1 lead Adam Foote scored his first The Coyotes killed three first goal in 10 games. The after one period. goal in 50 games and Eric Avalanche power plays in the Hanger win spoiled another The Kings, who had played a Lacroix and Adam Deadmarsh first, one a 5-on-3 advantage. outstanding outing for Modin, 1-1 tie in Detroit on Wednesday added third-period goals for the Cliff Ronning nearly trickled a who now has 10 goals in his night, outshot the Blackhawks Avalanche, who are 9-1-1 in the puck through Roy's pads early last 12 games. 13-3 in the first period. last 11 meetings with the in the period and Roy later 
While Modin was doing his Murray opened the scoring Coyotes and have won five smothered Keith Tkaehuk on a part, his teammates failed to with a turnaround shot from straight. The Avalanche beat 2-on-1. 
Belles host 
Aurora University 
By AGNES BILL Sports Wrirer 
Saint Mary's basketball team has experienced quite a few ups and downs this season. Tonight at 7 p.m., the Belles are hoping to end the year on a high note at home against Aurora University. 
Starting out the season with a win and a loss at the Kalamazoo tournament. the Belles struggled into .January where they were winless. Afttw the unsuccessful streak, the 8­17 Belles are anxious for their last game to be a good one. 
"Our record does not reflect our hard work and determina­tion," senior Darcy Nikes said. "There were probably only four games this whole season we deserved to lose. The rest of the games were toss-ups and they could have gone either way." 
After being defeated Tuesday night at Sienna lleights, the Belles can only finish one shy of their desired reeord if they can beat 12-11 Aurora. 
According to CharlottfJ Albrecht, the Belles arn disap­pointed they fell short of their goal. According to Albrecht, although their record is bettl~r than last season's, they should not be satisfied. 
Although disappointment fills the air, the Belles still want to finish strong. 
"We are as prepared as we can be, and compared to the competition we are going to win by scoring a lot and play­ing an up tempo ball game," said head coach David Hoeder. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas· 
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right m edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 


Classifieds 
NOTICES 
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/1. Europe $290 o/w. Other worldwide destinations cheap. ONLY TER­RORISTS GET YOU THERE CHEAPER! Air-Tech (212)219·7000. (600)575-TECH. www.airtech.com 
-THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon -Thur 7:30am · Midnight Fri 7:30am · 7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon · Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
NEED HELP DOING YOUR TAXES, BUT DON'T WANT TO GO ANYWHERE FOR THE HELP? I WILL COME TO YOU! Call Shane at 243·5638 
Students and Instructors wanted. We are test running a new, two-day seminar, the Win/Win Class, at no charge to you, designed to increase creative thinking, and improve rela· lionships of all kinds. Call 243-6632 for a reservation. 
WANTED 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED 
please call 219·271·0633 
Russian, 7 yrs exp. Rus. teacher for foreigners. Private & group 
lessons all levels & translations Yulia: 243-10791eave message 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a diflerence in the life of a child! Summer lherapy camp for handicapped children. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Watertront, Instructors for Nature/Arts & Cralts/Recreation/Canoeing/Kayaki ng, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. Salary, room & board, and experience of a lifetime provided. Call or write for application and information. Bay Cliff Health Camp, 310 W. Washington, Suite 300, Marquette, Ml 49655, (906)226­5770. 
FOR RENT 
FURN, 1 BDRM APT., AIR, PRI­
VATE KITCHEN, ENTRANCE, 
LAUNDRY, PHONE, UTILITIES 
INCLUDED $400/MO, ROOM 
$200/MO. 
272-0615. 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR 
CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW & 
FALL272-6551 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND·SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0656. 
ALL SIZE HOMES 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
232-2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 
219-291-7153 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR 
NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD 
AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 
POTATO HOUSE 6 BEDROOM 
FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 
2773097 
New 5 bdrm, 2 bath home with LR, FA, outdoor deck, & 2 car garage within walking distance ol campus. Has AIC, gas, heat, stove, refrig, G/0, 0/W, W & D. $1500 per mo. 232-4527. 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE '96-'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar. WID. V-Ball Ct. 1626 Portage. 234-3631/273-0462 
FOR SALE 
Old Mac computer 4 sale -$50 OBO. Call 1·5213. 
Sick of being stuck on campus? 1966 Pontiac GrandAm LE call Holly 289-2667 $1600obo 
Mac PowerBook 190cs, 6/500. $ 500. Call Leopold at 273 9275. 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New. never used, still in plastic. $225 219-662·2062 
PERSONAL 
Off-Broadway Musical at Notre Dame? SEALOVE, MANAGER original musical direct from NY Wastiington Hall Feb 26, 27, 28 @ 7:30 $7 ($4 students) Buy Tix at Lafortune 
The Filipino American Student Organization presents: 
I!FIESTANG FILIPINO IV!! A Night of Filipino Food and Dance 
Sat, Feb.26, 6pm Stepan Center $5 stud. $7 GA 
NO Video applications due March 4 & 16. Stop by the store & pick one up. M·W 7-10 PM, Th-Sat 6PM­12AM. LaFun Basement. 

If you want to dance the night away. then keep reading. If you don't, keep reading anyway. Here's why: 
UMPHREY'S McGEE 
will have you dancing up a storm TONIGHT at 
XTREAMZ 
and will then be playing an early 
show on SATURDAY at 
MADISON ST. OYSTER BAR 
from 9-11 p.m. with NO COVER. 
Both shows will feature interpretive dance from Adam Budney, a finalist in Indiana's 1997 state competition. 
Luke the Duke is coming! 
Beware the big balls! 
Awesome Sugar Plum Yeah!!! 
HAPPY BIRTHDAY MAIT!! You are the greatest brother in 
the whole world! 
And remember-, it's bomb not bong. Have a great day!! 
Your bro-John 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale 
Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/Nd-SMC 10-1/2 price field fee. 291-2540. 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire· place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car· ing professional couple would love to provide a new born with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­600-464· 7011 Pin #4523 
RENT 1626 PORTAGE '96-'99! 234-3631 I 273-0462 
tulips make me happy 
very very happy 
i'm not good a subtle hints 
purple ones yellow ones pink ones 
red ones 
what's with Anna Begins? 
gotta love the cartoonist at 1:16 am 
and I have to be Flo tomorrow 
Burt in 124 Dillon: I didn't mean to hurt you by only coming to see Joe. It breaks my heart that you would suspect me of not caring. You know that I always come to see you. 
·Red;) 
KateN sorry I been so cranky. 
I be better after break. 
KATE ROWLAND IS GOING TO 
SPAIN! Congratulations! 
Ellowen Deeowen 
HERE I COME! 
well, here it is, my friends. your last edition of sarah's inside jokes. shed a tear. boo hoo. i know you are sad, but you will survive. 
SHOOOOT!!! 
doh! 
we come from the 'ville. we even have our own symbol (right cv??) if you are nice enough to· us, we might think you are pretty cool too. 
the six cool cats of this campus will be living in tc next year. yahoo. 
beautiful first night, mackenzie!!! 
kristi--you are a lifesaver, dedicated hard worker rock my world kind of 

partner. jiggy, my friend. you are jiggy. we are jiggy. jiggy jiggy jiggy. and our mom's are pretty cool too. 
oh, i see how it is. 
hey matt--the mississippi's mighty, but it starts in minnesota. at a place that you could walk across with 5 steps down. i thought that might help you find it. 
hey 253 (well, i guess there's only 2 of you.) but you're pretty jiggy your· selves. can i dance in the window again? will you take an action shot cp?? 
okay, i am running out of things to say. 
because i don't want to work, i want to bang on the drum all day. with my roommates. cp and lp. 
but they won't have dance parties with me 
shoot! 
kk-· next year, when we are living in the same pice, when will i get to crash on your couch??? oh no!!! 
hey angela!!! one week until spring break. yeahoooo!!! so, when are you going to learn to drive my car?? that's a looooong ride down there. we'll have to have a dance party the whole way. 
oh no ... the end is in sight... won't y'all be glad to have me back home on thursday nights??? 
because you miss me. 
a lot. 
i'm in here. awake. come in and make lots and lots of noise. 
i think i'll join the flower of the month club 
yeah. 
Friday,·February 27,~1998 -. The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• WOMEN's TENNIS 

Dasso, Hall lead Irish tennis 
Notre Dame look to rebound against Syracuse, Jransas 
By TIM CASEY Sporrs Writer 
The women's tennis team looks to rebound after suffer­ing their first two dual match losses of the year last week­end. 
The Irish may have lost their first two matches, but Coach Jay Louderback was nonethe­less pleased with his team. 
"Both of our losses last weekend were by scores of 5­4," said Louderback. "Against Vanderbilt there were even a few times where we even had match points to win but could not capitalize and in our match with Mississippi we split the singles before losing two close pro sets in doubles. This year it seems that there is more parity than ever in college tennis. Every point is crucial and all the top teams have good chances to beat each other." 
Junior Jennifer Hall and freshman Michelle Dasso, the top two players on the team, fared well for the 7-2 Irish. First singles player Hall post­ed a 3-0 singles record on the weekend, including her sec­ond victory over the third ranked player in the country, Mississippi's Agnes Muzamel. Dasso also went 3-0 with a win over Mississippi's Ivona Mihailova. 
Today, the Irish play host to fellow Big East conference school, Syracuse. Syracuse ~ led by senior Nicole Strnadova. Strnadova is com­ing back from an injury suf­fered last year but is having a good senior season. 
"It will be good to play a Big East school before our tourna­ment in April. They are only one of two Big East teams, along with Boston College that we play all season," Louderback said. 
The University of Minnesota comes to Notre Dame on Saturday morning for a match. 
Minnesota defeated Syracuse earlier in the year by an impressive 7-0 margin and is currently one of the top teams in the Midwest. 
"Minnesota is a deep team," Louderback said. " They have been ranked in the top five in the Midwest for the whole year. Most of their players are similar so their bottom of the lineup is strong. Nora Savska is their number one player and has some national experience. l\'92m eager to play them because we have a chance of facing them again in the Midwest NCAA's qualify­ing." 

On Sunday, the Irish com­pete against Kansas, which features one of the top players in the country, Ky lie Hunt. Hunt is recovering from a knee injury which forced her to miss last year's spring sea­son. The fifth-year senior was the runner-up in the 1996 NCAA singles tournament. 
Kansas is solid throughout their lineup from one to six singles and Hunt is one of the most talented players in the country. And she seems to have regained her form after missing last year; earlier this year she beat Duke's No. 1 player. 
"It shows you what kind of competitor she is after not playing for so long," Louderback said. 

The Observer/John Daily 

Captain Kelley Olson will lead the irish women's tennis team this weekend. 

You could earn: 
$20°0 after your first plasma donation! $15°0 ifyou donate alone (first visit) $5°0 ifyou show college I.D. {first visit) 
$20°0 TOTAL! 

$1 0°0 per person ifyou recruit someone and they donate twice. 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current address with photo J.D. 
Come to:  Hours:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  M-F: 9:00 -6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  Sat: 8:00 -5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1117  Ph. 234-60 I 0  

Sunday, March 1st 
Ope-14 mic e(TIIe-e-4C'u~e­
Lafol-'"trAV\e Balll-'"oom: 3-5 p.m. Watch a 15-miV\rAte iV\fol-'"matioV\al video aV\d heal-'" pe~-'"SoV\al stol-'"ies shal-'"ed by ND strAdeV\ts aborAt thei~ st~rAggles with eatiV\9 diso~de~s. 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 27, 1998 
• fENCING 



Teamwork crucial for fencers 
Determination leads Irish to championships 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
It takes a lot to be a champi­on. 
For any athlete, it requires a great deal of focus, determina­tion. and practice. For the Irish fencing team, this has spelled itself out all season. The long practices, the endless list of teams on the Irish schedule and their determination to be the best have culminated to this point in the season. 
The upcoming schedule now reads "championships," and that is what is on every Irish fencer's mind. The time is now for the team to cash in its chips in the quest to the champions. 
This weekend the Midwest Team Championships will pro­vide the Notre Dame fencers with the first possible opportu­nity to do this. With the indi­vidual qualifier tournament next weekend, and the NCAA Individual Championships just around the corner, the team knows the value that this last team event carries with it. 
"It's the last team event of 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
One~Night Badminton Tournament -RecSports will be sponsoring a One­Night Badminton tourna­ment (Jn Friday, Feb. 27. The tournament will begin at 6:30 p.m. at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Hegister in advance nt RecSports. Singles and doubles division. Deadline for entering is today. 
Bookstore Basketball -Signups for Bookstore Basketball teams will begin on Monday, March 
2. II' interested, contact Mark Huffman at 289­7599 or Dan Delaney at 

Production Manager Mark DeBoy is now Production Manager Emeritus Mark DeBoy. Yeah 
t 
a 
the year," said junior epeeist Nicole Mustilli. "It's going to be less stressful than the upcom­ing tournaments, but it will be a good preparation no matter what." 
That preparation does not specifically focus on fencing. For this squad, teamwork is just as important, even as they enter the individual tourna­ments. 
"In the qualifiers [next week­end]. the idea of the team effort is still there," comment­ed Mustilli. 
Knowing that the team will have to compete against each other -in some eases even fencing each other -next week is anything but phasing this focus on teamwork. The intensity could not be stronger for this team, even as each member fights to be one of the two Irish fencers to represent their squad at the NCAA Championships. But this com­petition has not hurt the team. Instead, they will rely on it to fence their way to a team championship. 
"We won't lose our focus on teamwork, we're too tight of a team to do that," said senior foilist John Tejada. "Our main goal is to win the champi­onship. We'll be happy if we go first, second, and third in each event, even if that means that one of us won't qualify for the NCAAs." 

But before that happens, the team will face one last test as they battle for the final collec­tive win of the season this weekend. Though the teams they face will not be of the same caliber as some of the top-ranked East-Coast teams they have faced, this last team tournament is just as impor­tant. 
"We still have to do our best. Here's an opportunity to work out the kinks and get us famil­iar with the people we'll fence next weekend," said senior epeeist Carl Jackson. 
Added Tejada, "We have to keep the same game plan throughout. We can't sleep on any of these teams this week­end. 
"No matter what we'll face in the future, beating the teams this weekend is our primary goal right now." 
Winning has been the team's goal all season. And they are looking to continue that in the upcoming tournaments. All of the team's efforts all season are in hopes that they can place a 'W' by each of the remaining tournaments, including the NCAA Championships. 
THANK YOU! THANK YOU! THANK YOU! 
TO ALL THE ND AND SMC STUDENTS WHO WORKED FOR CATERING DURING JUNIOR PARENTS WEEKEND 
WE COULON'' HAVE DONE I' WI,HOU' YOU! 
One & Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98-'99 School Year. Summer Rentals June-August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
·"Wf. 
J• 
Furnished/central 
•
All utilities .•.~ ............. :•Indoor 

•Tennis, 
volleyball, & basketball courts 






Lucky t 






Friday, February 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
Brown's technique breaks records 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Notre Dame junior Mike Brown, with his outdoor best of 17-1/4, is the first Irish pole vaulter to clear 17 feet. 
Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 

r--------, 
r------~~,

I One week of I or I Ten Tanning • 1Unlimited Tanning 1 1 B d S · • 
• only $15 I I e essions I 
l_*:~~i~~nly_J L-~~~!~~-J 
University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP tllall near K.JHarl 

272-7653 256-9656 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 

To achieve what junior Mike Brown has in the past two­and-a-half years, a person must have focus. To shatter school records and personal bests at the rate which Brown has, he must maintain focus, especially in the sport of pole vaulting. 
Last weekend, the soft-spo­ken Brown claimed his sec­ond-straight Big East title with the second highest vault in Notre Dame history at 17-1 1/2. 
In January, Brown beat the provisional qualifying standard for the NCAA championship by 4 1/2 inches. Yet, he fell just 4 1/2 inches short of the auto­matic qualifying standard at the Red Simmons Invitational. 
The sport of pole vaulting is a precarious one in which the vaulter puts all his weight on a single pole to propel himself over a bar at least 15 feet in the air. Brown has almost per­fected the technique, yet he maintains there is always room for improvement. 
"When you run down the runway, you have a certain step and you have to hit your marks," Brown said about the pole vault. "On the runway a few feet before you reach the mat, you visualize yourself beginning your plant, which means moving your arms for­ward and up over your head. At the same time the pole drops into the box and on your last step you have to be in the right position; otherwise it becomes dangerous." 
At the Red Simmons Invitational, he shattered the 16-year-old school record by 9 1/4 inches. His vault of 17-6 beat the previous mark set by Paul Doyle at 16-8 3/4, a record which has stood since 1982. 
Prior to his spectacular showing, his previous best was 16-23/4 set at both the 1996 and 1997 Big East champi­onships. 
He started pole vaulting as a freshman at Torrey Pines High School, in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., only after his dream of playing soccer was cut short when he did not make the high school team. 
"When you start out pole vaulting you don't start out immediately going for heights," Brown said. "You do the very simple drills and you learn those, and those drills only require walking and get­ting inches off the ground. As you become more comfortable, the drills become more diffi­cult and gradually go up in height." 
One of Brown's most memo­rable moments occurred when he captured the California state championship his senior year with a vault of 16-4. That same year he qualified for the 1995 USA track and field junior nationals and finished fifth. 
"It was a lot of fun and that is why I keep with it now," Brown said. "I never went out with the expectation of being here. I wanted to play soccer. I played soccer all my life. Then I went out for wrestling and I went out for track because my brother ran track." 
Brown's high school perfor­mance caught the eyes of numerous colleges and univer­sities throughout the country. In addtion to Notre Dame, Texas, UCLA and Berkeley recruited him. 
"I was not looking at colleges simply based on track," Brown said. "I took my trip here I met the team, I met the people and it just felt very comfortable. Notre Dame has a very good reputation academically. It was a small school and it was away from home. I was look­ing to go away from home." 
Brown has had tremendous success in the past two and a half year. He won the Big East indoor and outdoor pole vault titles, with jumps of 16-2 3/4 indoors and 16-4 3/4 outdoors. Last year, he finished no lower than fifth in 13 indoor and out­door competitions. His outdoor best came at the ICAAAA championships with a vault of 17-1/4 and became the first person from Notre Dame to clear 1 7 feet. 
12:00 4:00 8:15 KRIPPENDORPS (PG-13) 
DTS 11 fD 2:0042>6fD92J PALJ.ETTO (R)9:40 GOOD WILL HUNTING (R) 
1 :30 4:30 7:20 1O:QO ~SN2.(PG13) DTS 12:15 2:45 5:00 7:30 9:50 
SPHERE (PG13) 1:00 4:10 7:00 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] GREAT EXPECTATIONS (R) [1 :30]4:30 7:30 10:00 
THE BORROWERS (PG) [12:45] 
[2:45]5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) [1:00]4:00 7:00 9:50 
Houses For Rent 1998-1999 258-9996 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS ' Friday, February 27, 1998 
W. B-ball 
continued from page 24 
the Irish enter the tournament on one of their most outstand­ing wins of the s~ason. a 71-64 victory over No. 2 seed Rutgers. 
Before defeating the Scarlet Knights. the Irish had gone 0-7 after trailing at halftime. The team was down 33-28 going into the locker room before they wr.nt on a 9-0 run to start the half. The team then hit 21 of 27 frr.e throws in the second half to put the game away. 
"I thought this was the biggest win of the season." head coach Muffet McGraw said. "It was a game we absolutely had to have. and it was a challenge for us to step up." 
Even though the game was intended to put the team's seniors on center stage, it was freshman Huth Hiley who put on a show on Tuesday night. The 6-foot-5 center tallied her ninth double-double of the sea­son with 23 points and 12 rebounds. lvey, along with junior Sheila McMillen, scored 15 and 16 points respectively. 
"We thought coming into the game that Ruth would be a fac­tor because she didn't play much during the game at Rutgers, so we had hoped that would be an advantage we would have coming in, McGraw said about Hiley's per­formance. 
The two teams faced off two timesearlier this season, both with lopsided results in favor of the Irish. In the most recent contest on Feb. 12. Riley and junior Danielle Green each scored 13 to lead the Irish. while McMillen tallied eleven points.• 
"I think the key for us is to play as a team," Siemon said. "We have to be mentally pre­pared, use our strength, and take advantage of the other team's mistakes. But we have to play as a team. because that's what we've done throughout the season." 

Hear the Experiences 
SOCIAL 
of Gang Members
CONCERNS 
from Chicago 
SATURDAY, 
.FEBRUARY 28Tl\ 
CENTER FOR SociAL CoNCERNS 

M. B-ball 
continued from page 24 
that we had that kind of bal­ance," said Notre Dame head coach John MacLeod. "The great thing was that we had a bunch of people step up around Garrity." 
The Friars have stumbled to an 11-15 overall record, including a mediocre 6-11 mark in Big East play. After last year's run in which it reached the Elite Eight of the NCAA tournament, Providence has fallen on hard times. 
Forward Jamel Thomas has emerged as one of the league's top players. averaging 17.9 points and 6.7 rebounds per game. Thomas has. however, had little support around him, meaning the Friars have been punchless on offense for much of the season. 
"We've had flashes where we have been a solid team, but we haven't been able to maintain any consistency," said Friars head coach Pete Gillen. 
"It's been kind of a rebuilding season for us, but that doesn't mean we're not going to make any noise over the rest of the season," he said. 
The Irish just hope that noise doesn't come on Saturday. 


Hockey 
continued from page 24 
the Spartans creamed the Irish. The next night in the Spartans' rink, the Irish trounced them. If Notre Dame plays like they are capable, they can create a lot of momentum heading into the postseason. 
Sophomore John Dwyer has made it clear that Notre Dame isn't afraid of anyone. "We will play anyone in the first round," he said. "We don't have any favorites. What we do want to is to come into the post-season having finished the regular sea­son strongly." 
For the Irish to win, they will have to rejuvenate their power play. The Irish's power play has been very strong this sea­son, ranking as high as third in the league for most of the sea­son thanks to the plethora of goal-scorers who show up to the rink every night. 
Junior Aniket Dhadphale topped the 20-goal plateau weeks ago. and sophomore cen­ter Ben Simon leads the team in assists and eclipsed his goal total from last year before Christmas. Junior forward Brian Urick has proven himself to be a clutch scorer and leads the team in game-winning goals. 

Perhaps more important than scoring is preventing the score, and for this the Irish faithful turn to senior star goaltender Matt Eisler. He has had a sto­ried career as an Irish net-min­der and is a big reason why Notre Dame has won more games this season than ever before in Poulin's reign. But the true key to preventing goals comes from the five men in front of Eisler. The entire team is focusing on marking opponents in front of the net and playing better team defense. 

I ' 

Friday, February 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 


Expectations high for Irish women's lacrosse team 
By KEVIN AMERIKS Sports Writer 
Any new season brings with it a certain aura of excitement and optimism for the experience that lies ahead. This is especially the case for the budding women's lacrosse program, which embarks op its second season as 
a.varsity sport with a weekend tournament on Duke's campus in Durham, N.C. 
Though this year's schedule dwarfs last year's in both scale and dilliculty, the Irish are eager for the many challenges they'll encounter this spring, including matches with Stanford, Vanderbilt, Harvard, Davidson, and Duke twice. 
The return of 12 monogram winners and eight starters, together with the addition of a talented freshman class includ­ing four former high school all­Americans. has left head coach Tracy Coyne joyous about the strong direction the program has taken so quickly. 
Rut there is more work to do, and coach Coyne, the perennial motivator, has set an important focus for the team. 
"We're not in a position to overlook anyone on our schedule and we must go into all our games well prepared," she said. 
Nevertheless, she has set high goals for the program she was hired to launch from infancy. 
We want a national champi­onship-caliber contender as quickly as possible," she said. 
Though lacking in experiene, this year's squad is comprised of quality leadership, talent, depth, and enthusiasm. Together, these qualities have raised the expec­tations for the '98 team to build 
Looking 
ForA 
on the success of their inaugural campaign, which ended with a respectable 5-4 record. 
Headlining the list of Irish returnees are fifth-year senior Mara Grace (attack/midfield), senior Eileen Regan (midfield), and junior Kelly Callahan (attack). Last year, the trifecta amassed 52 goals and 16 assists for 68 points on a team which finished eighth nationally in scoring offense, averaging 13.56 goals per game. 
Serving as tri-captains this year, Grace, Regan, and Callahan will be called upon for their intensity and leadership qualities as well as their versatil­ity and offensive prowess. 
"Our captains are good leaders and are committed and dedicat­ed to motivating all the players on our team," Coyne said. "They have taken on the responsibility of instilling into everyone on the team a strong work ethic that will enable us to take that next step." 
Regan served as a captain last year and was voted as the team MVP after starting all nine games and scoring 20 goals and two assists. She is respected for her all-around skills and is the sparkplug for Notre Dame's transition game. 
Callahan is the top returning scorer from last year's squad and was the second-leading scorer overall a year ago with 18 goals and a team-leading 11 assists for 29 points. Her good moves, athleticism, and field vision on the attack will continue to instill fear in the opposition. 
Junior Stephanie Fox will also be a key goal-scorer for the Irish attack this year. Last year, she proved to be a threat from any­where on the field, finishing third in the Irish scoring column with 18 goals and 8 assists for 26 points, while starting only seven of the nine games the team played. 

Lael O'Shaugnessy, the first woman lacrosse player ever to sign a national letter of intent to attend Notre Dame, is but one talented freshman at an impact position who is poised to earn a starting position in the Irish line­up. A three-sport athlete at St. Stephen's & St. Agnes School in Alexandria, Va., she was a high school all-American her junior and ·senior seasons in lacrosse and helped lead her team to a 19-1 record and No. 1 ranking nationally her senior year. The team hopes to get the most out of her potential as a fine passer and "big game" competitor. 
Junior Jessica Grom is the leading defensive midfielder. Speedy and strong, she will be assigned to shut down the opo­nent's top attack player. 
The Irish midfield should also benefit from the individual improvement of Margaret Cholis and Meg Bowman. Their hard work and dedication in the off­season will likely be rewarded with increased playing time for the two of them. 
Perhaps the most intriguing newcomer on the women's team is senior midfielder Holly Manthei. She is as much a new­comer to the sport of lacrosse as she is to the varsity team. Still, she brings to the team the valu­able experience of starting on a national championship team. As the only four-time all-America in the history of the women's soc­cer program, her athletic skills needn't be questioned. 

Theory only goes so far ... 

In the first 28 days, our folks are prepared for the future by being 
PowerBuilder

Challenge · 
SQA Testing Time Management

That Will 
NT Server Database Implementation 

Prepare 
trained in the following: 
Public Speaking Process Definition 
c We take the future seriously. 

You For 
HTML 
Database Design Foosball Data Modeling SELC NT Client 
• 
Business Writing 
Network Topology 

Customer Relations 
SQL • 
Office Productivity Tools 
GUI Design 

Meet DC Systems on March 3rd at 7:00 p.m. 
in the LaFortune Student Center Foster Room.
The 
Refreshments provided • Interviews March 4 & 5 
Future? 
www.dcsys.com 
DC IYITEMI U ITITEMI DC IJITEMI IC ITITEMI 
SOFTWARE CONSULTING EDUCATION
Forward Resumes to: INFORMATION 
MANAGEMENT 

recruiting@dcsys.com 

Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 27, 2998 
• JOCK STRIP 
Caray's enthusiam changed· game for fans 
A little over a John Coppoiella week ago, the SporrsWrirer sports world lost a man whose legacy in the game of baseball will not soon be forgotten. 
Harry Caray. best known for his broadcasts of Chicago White Sox and Cubs games. passed on early last week. With his death, baseball lost more than another announcer; it lost another part of its luster, which is now fading faster than the Detroit Pistons. 
Caray was an individual who per­sonified what tho game used to mean. He made baseball a game played for fun. not for multi-million dollar con­tracts, revenue sharing and luxury boxes. He had a special relationship not only with White Sox or Cubs fans, but with every listener and every fan. For Caray, a perfect day wasn't a win or a loss, but a beer, a hot dog and th1·ee hours of enjoying the national pastime. 
When his team would win -which was not very often for the Cubs -Caray would explode with ecstasy into the microphone and scream "Cubs Win! Cubs Win! Cubs Win!" 
His energy wasn't an attempt to energize the fans, but rather his own exuberance. Above all else, Caray was honest. When Cubs players would make a great play, he would sing their praises. When they would make errors or swing at bad pitches, he would let the fans know about it, regardless of how it reflected on his team. 
Caray was a fan, first and foremost, and this was what made him so spe­cial as a broadcaster. He put on a show designed not for the die·hard bM.;eball fan, but for the fan who might be watching his or her first or last game. 
Camy made sure that everyone was on his wavelength and was able to see the game through his glasses, which, if you have ever seen a picture of Caray, speak volumes about the man. 
I am not from Chicago and am not a 
Full menu is inside Scholastic 
back 

• 
fan of the White Sox or the Cubs, but I am a big fan of Caray's. Growing up, I would always look for Cubs games on WGN because their games were the most entertaining. Although the Cubs themselves are one of the least enter· taining teams, Caray made their games entertaining with his enthusi­asm. 
The cheap advertisement plugs, his randomness (''I'd like to wish a happy 99th birthday to Evelyn Szablewski from Moorhead, Minnesota, a Cubs fan for the past 57 years") and the way he pronounced foreign names were all part of a Harry Caray tele­cast. Even if it was Cubs-Expos at Olympic Stadium in mid-July with both teams about as far out of the playoffs as ND basketball is out of the NCAA tournament, the games were always worth watching. 
Last spring, I was able to make the pilgrimage to Wrigley Field and catch a Cubs game while visiting a friend in Chicago. We went to the game. sat with the bleacher bums in left field, got beer spilled all over, and experi­enced Caray leading the seventh~ inning stretch. When he criecl out, "Lemme hear you," and began to "sing" the seventh·inning stretch, the whole stadium joined him in unison and everyone was a Cubs' fan for 45 seconds. It was the greatest ballgame I have ever attended. 
Caray's funeral is· today at the Holy Name Cathedral in Chicago. As the Windy City buries him, they will not be crying for Caray or his family, butfor the loss they have suffered. 
Chicago has lost Caray and his·spe. cial talent for transcending the game and bringing us all back to a time when we were eight-year-old children in little league or at the ballpark, entranced by the lights and the show that was the game. When people cry over Caray's death, they will be crying not just for the man, but for the game of baseball. 

• MEN's TENNIS 
Badgers threaten Irish 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
When a team's greatest problem is that it has too many qualified players, things are pretty good. 
After solid perfor­mances by three netters, Notre Dame's men's ten­nis team is having trouble choosing the bottom of the line-up. Eric Enloe, Andy Warford and Matt Horsley are all possible starters for Saturday's match at home against Wisconsin. 
"Any two of the three will be playing this week­end," coach Bob Bayliss said. "I was hoping [yes­terday] I'd be able to tell [who would start]. I had them practice against each other. It was still pretty equal." 
But there's not have much time to decide. The deadline is set for Saturday at 1 p.m. when the Irish take on the 3-1 Badgers. 
After advancing to 6-2 in last weekend's win against Purdue, the Irish are want to keep things rolling against Wisconsin, who lost its only match against the Boilermakers. 
The No. 23 Irish have only lost once this decade to Wisconsin, but with the Badger's addition of Mark Loughrin, tradition may swing the other way. 
Loughrin, who will play at No. 1, is a junior trans­fer from the University of Texas where he played No. 2. Loughrin's accom­plishments include a ranking as high as fourth nationally in the 18-and­under competition. 
"He's a scrappy player, and competitive," Bayliss said. "lie's very athletic Hothschild has ddined and likes to come to the consistency this season, net." going 8-0 on the y(~ar. 

Despite the strength The team will rely on down the line-up, Hothschild's at his usual Loughrin may serve as a No. 4 position, whiln pain in the neck to No. 1 pulling for Brian Irish player Hyan Sachirc. Patterson to continue his Or, worsen the pain. pownrful improvements 
Sachire, who has come at the No. 3 spot. up with several vital wins As their home-stand this season. was unable nears its end, the Irish to practice yesterday due need to gain oil' the home to a pulled neck muscle, court in every sense in but is hopeful for the their next-to-last game at weekend. the Eck Pavilion. 
Irish No. 2 player Jakub "It's a definite advan­Pietrowski, who has tage," Bayliss said. struggled as the sore spot "[Wisconsin's] courts are for the Irish, will need to a lot faster. I hope it will pull through if Sachire is be a factor." a no-show. Pietrowski If Sachire's aches arc will battle Wisconsin's cured and the bottom­David Chang's huge fore­heavy line-up lives up to hand in the quest for his its talk, the Irish will second win on the sea­most likely come out with son. its fourth consecutive 
"Chang will miss some win. shots, but he will hit the "[Wisconsin's! on(~ of big ones," Bayliss said. the teams I've thought "Jakub will need to keep could challenge us," the ball deep and play a Bayliss said. "But if we're consistent game." healthy, I think we might 
Team captain Danny be the slight favorite." 

i\NC 

THE CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION OF PHILIPPINE INDEPENDENCE 



y
Looking for acting experience on campus? Would you like to help 


E out with Campus Alliance for Rape 
A 
Elimination? 
R 
s
There will be a 

MabuhaN' ng KalaN'aan CoAoRoEa training for 
Fflfpfno Cufsfne an~ 
Cu1tun.a1 Enten.tafnment
all interested persons this Sunday at 1 :00. 

February 28, 6:00 PM 
Interested? Contact Adrian 

STEPAN CENTER $7 GENERAL, $5 STUDENTS
289-7136 

DRESSY ATTIRE REQUESTED
aduran@ titian.helios.nd.edu 

Tickets available at LaFortune Info Desk Brought to you by FASO and OMSA 
page 21

Friday, February 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
.. 

• TRACK AND FIELD 
Tracksters ready for final indoor meet at home 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field team will take a fairly relaxed approach into this weekend's Alex Wilson Invitational. after the stress and rigor of the Big East championships last week. 
This will be Notre Dame's final home indoor meet of the season. and therefore the final chance for the seniors to run on the Meyo Track in Loftus Sports Center. It will be lwld tonight and tomorrow, with most finals in running events tak­ing place between 12:45 and 3:30p.m. 
I lead coach Joe Piane said 
that virtually every school 
that wanted to send athletes 
to the meet was permitted 
to. The meet will focus on 
the individuals, as most 
schools are only sending a 
few of their top athletes to 
compete, rather than the 
entire team. 
Since most of the people 
competing from schools 
other than Notre Dame are 
among the top individuals on 
their team, the competition will be stiff. 
"It will be a good meet, and our kids will be chal­lenged," said Piane. "For some of our athletes, we need for them to be sharper so we can take them to a meet. next week and get them qualified !for the NCM championships). To develop sharpness, they might run different distances than usual." 
After last week's meet, it appears that the Fighting Irish have qualified for the NCAA championships in seven events -Errol Williams in the 55-meter hurdles, Bobby Brown in the 400-meter dash, Jason Rexing in the mile, Marshaun West in the long jump, Mike Brown in the pole vault, and JoAnna Deeter in the 3,000 and 5,000-meter runs. This meet and next weekend's are the last chances to qualify for nationals. 
Williams has reached the 
automatic qualifying time, 
while the others have met 
provisional standards, which 
means their qualifications 
depend on how well other 


athletes do. Williams' time of 
7.26 last weekend is a new school record and ranks him as the seventh-fastest hur­dler in the nation. Rexing also was named athlete of the meet last week after two individual victories. 
The men placed second at the Big East, and the women ninth. Although they had hoped to finish slightly high­er, Piane said that all the athletes really stepped up their efforts and competed well. 
Williams, Brown, and sev­eral runners who competed in events at the Big East Invitational, such as Deeter and distance runner Alison Klemmer, will sit out this meet to rest. 
"I know a lot of people had their heart in the last meet, so we're just trying to run the best that we can," said senior all-American Danny Payton, who will compete in the 400-meter dash tomor­row. 
"We will be giving a lot of people an opportunity to compete because it's a home meet," said field events coach Scott Winsor. 



That's what graduate students may be saying if they rent somewhere else. Because our residents enjoy all the room they need to relax and unwind. The gas is included in your rent, so you'll stay warm and cozy every winter for free! And our tennis courts and swimming pool will help you relieve the stress of graduate school. And if that's not enough, you also get a reduced security deposit of $50.00, no application fee, and a $20.00 monthly graduate student discount. And ask about our priority waiting list program if you'd prefer to wait until August to move. Talk about the luck of the Irish! So what the!#?*& are you waiting for? Come see today. 

Williamsburg 

eL G:r
dishes from the deep to new heights. EQUAL HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY
Dive in! But don't forget to come up for air. For a limited time only. Williamsburg On the Lake 

302 ViiJage or.

423 S. Dixie Way Roseland Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 
Phone # 256-0237For a hmtled 11me only at participating restaurants. 01998 Perkms Restaurants Operahng Cqmpany. LP 



Tennis 
Women: vs. Syracuse Friday @ 4pm vs. Minnesota Saturday @ 9am vs. Kansas Sunday @ 1 pm Men: vs. Wisconsin Saturday@ lpm 
Eck Tennis Pavilion 
ND Hockey 

. .

vs. orthel-Tl Michiga&·l n'i. ~~ Sa~ @7pm 
Free Admission to first 300 students! 
page 22 The Observer • CLUB SPORTS Friday, February 27, 1998 
.. 
• 

Ia 


In their spare time: The 

Notre Dame club bowling team practices nine hours a week to per­fect their tech­
nzque. 
Photos by joe Stark 





I 
IJ 
i 
bowled very well as did every­one else who competed. Hopefully next year we can double the number of partic­ipating schools," said Deitch. 
The team will be sponsoring their second "Rock and Bowl" night at the Beacon Bowl in April.· The first "Rock and Bowl," held earlier in the year, was very successful and featured unlimited bowling set to a background of music. 
The Irish travel to the University of Illinois in Urbana, Ill. this weekend to compete in Illinois' tourna­ment. The first weekend of spring break. they travel to Columbus, Ohio to compete against another midwest school. 
The club is led by president Eric Baker and vice president Shawn Kearney. Deitch serves as the club's secretary, while Adam Niesen is the treasurer. 
South Bend resident and Notre Dame alum Hay Szajko serves as the team's coach. Szajko is currently a profes­sional bowler and volunteers his time to help the program out. 
"Hay Szajko is instrumental in our development as bowlers. He is an experienced bowler who has a lot of knowledge to offer us," Dnitch said. 
Anyone who is interested in bowling is encouraged to join the club team. 
By TIM CASEY 
SportS Writer 
Bowling is usually seen as a leisure activity which people participate in on a soeial level. For some students, however, at Notre Dame, bowling is a competitive sport for which they spend nine hours a week to perfect their craft. 
Senior Jason Jansen found­ed the bowling club two years ago. The team now consists of 12 men and seven women. The men's team is in its sec­ond full season, while the women started a year ago. The men and women compete in the same tournaments but in separatn divisions. 
The season starts in Sr.ptember, with tournaments running from October through Marcl1. Practices are three hours a day, three days a week at nearby Beacon Bowl in South Bend. In all, the Irish all compete in eleven tournamnnts during the school year. 
Notre Dame hosted their first annual Blue and Gold tournament three weeks ago at Beacon Bowl. A highlight of the tournament was senior Jil Llewnlyn winning the women's title. 
Sophomore team member Ann Deiteh was excitnd with the tournament's success. "The tournament was very suecessful, especially for it being our first year. Jil DILBERT 



WARNING~! 

AUTHOR NORMAN 50LOMON HA.5 DETERMINED THA.T THE DILBERT COMIC STRIP IS HARMFUL TO WORKERS. 

-~-------~-·------~­
Friday, February 27, 1998 The Observer • TODAY 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 They help in the classroom 16 Etoile's medium 17 John Hancock's place 18 Take orders, in 
away 19 Random one 20Jimmy 21 Certain league: 
Abbr. 23 Alarmist? 2&Bara 
contemporary 28 N. Car~ neighbor 29 What a patrol car might get, for short 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
--,.--.----r--r-. 14 Sandy tract 15 Trick ending 22 Mrs. Addams, 
35 Springsteen's to Gomez 
first hit 36Author-­24 Milestone Hubbard
25 Travel needs 37 Turning
26 Japan's first point?
capital 39 Strainer
27 Sport played to three points 40 "Fantas1a" frames
31 Aquarium acquisition 45 Getup 32 Tea-growing 47 House statb 
48 Homf' of the 33 Canadian pol N.H.L.'s Bob-Lightning 
30 Bad looks 
34 Suffix with 
corrupt 38 Shakes hands 41 Saab model 
42 Fly over the Equator 43 Casting requirement? 44 Pasternak lady 461974 Hoffman movie 48 Japanese mat 50"--lt Romantic?" 51 Praying figure 53 Lot 55 0ld fool 58 Three of a kind? 62 Bushel or inch, 
e.g~ 
I WlLL DEMONSTRA-TE iHE DANGER WI.TH nns CA-REFULLY CONiP-OLLED EXPERIM£NT. 
63 Splurged 
DOWN 
1 Have-­(freak out) 2 It parallels the radius 3 Singles spot 4 1987 Beatty flop 5 Monosaccharide 
1=--+---+­
6 "Myra Breckinridge" author 
7 Screen symbol a Letch 9 Final: Abbr. 
10 One of the brothers of Warner Bros. 
11 Soup server 12 Kind of reaction 13 "As--and 
breathe!" 

DAN SULLIVAN 
49 Ethnic prefix 57 Prized Pacific 
so The Dow, e.g. salmon 
51 Mayberry sot 59EI-­
52 Cakewalk 60 State that 
54 Treater's words borders 
56 Bobby and 

Colo. others 61 One's lot 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
page 23 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries:Spend your energy in pursuit of fun and romance. Relationships enter a playful stage today. Your sense of humor runs toward the cre­ative end of the spectrum. 
Taurus:The time has come to clean house and to make sure that a mess of this size never happens again. The way you live is a picture of your pride and humility. Your per­sonal affect is influenced by your family dynamic. 
Gemini:Style counts for a lot today. You appreciate themes­sage but are repulsed by the messenger. Keep your eyes open for your lucky number today: 432. 
Cancer:Your generosity to yourself extends into the lives of. others today. Remember that buying a friend cheapens the friendship, no matter how much you pay. Go with your impulse instead of your agen­da. 
Leo:The Moon has come to visit Leo's house, bringing you the gift of yourself. Flaunt who you are. Do exactly what you want to do. You are guaran­teed success in all pursuits today. 
Virgo:Today you are faced with the consequences of a mistake you made. At the moment, you have no real choice but to stand there and be scolded. Your opportunity to try making everything right will come soon enough. 
Libra:Be supportive of others today. As a community resource, you may get more than your share of people com­ing to you for help~ At the moment, you are comfortable in this role. In the future, you'll be owed many favors. 

Scorpio:Your professional life promises a new set of frus­trations. The best approach for today is the subtle attack. Staying with the program might be the best problem solving tool of all. 
Sagittarius:Do not let some­one else's offensive behavior spoil your good mood~ The Leo Moon makes you resilient and socially immune to idiots. Your mission today is too important to be diverted by petty conflict. 
Capricorn: 
Joint ventures are not favored today. Others are much less inclined to share than you would prefer them to be. Avoid all tempting invita­tions and spend the day work­ing alone. 
Aquarius:Compromise is the 
• 

only way out of a fierce strug­gle today. Each party loses something so that all might gain. A relationship is enriched if it survives this difficult moment. 
Pisces:The time has come to dive into your longstanding mess and organize it. Not everyone can navigate a filing system based on your personal intuition. Translate into con­ventional logic if you want oth­ers to understand. 

• 
• 

L___________________________________________________
~---------­


\' t t ( I 

SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, February 27, 1998 
Conference tourney begins 

• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
• 
-·­
. } 
~ 
' .._.... 
I _.-.. ~ 
-... 

.. 
c~he Irish will find out exactly where ' that confidence takes them when they .:\ravel to Providence on Saturday for the 
regular season finale. 
"It's the time of year where you want to go into the post-season on a high note," said Irish forward Pat Garrity. 


'" @M 
®w 

• ~ 
.7· ~h 
~: 


vs. Providence 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Derek Manner broke his shooting slump at the home finale against Georgetown.
, 

Notre Dame looks to 
-.1 
h 
ly can get some confidence going to !Me 't game," said center Phil HickeytaJ g the victory. "With a little bit of 
ce, hopefully it can extend our season." 

colltinue win streak 
MIKE DAY 
Something to build on -that's all the 
otre Dame basketball team was looking r when it hosted Georgetown in its me finale. ow that they have that something, rtesy of a 79-69 victory over getown on Wednesday, the Irish are ng to build from there. " was a huge win for us and hopeful-
at Providence, Today, 3 p.m. 
Big East Tournament at Rutgers, February 28-March 3 
vs. Northern Michigan, Friday, 7 p.m. Diamond Classis Championship, Today, 7 p.m. 

"That means we need to build on what we did in the Georgetown game." 
If Notre Dame hopes to take a two­game win streak into the Big East tour­nament, scheduled to begin on March 4, it will need to match the all-around effort it displayed against the Hoyas. 
In the victory, Garrity tallied his usual 24 points, but it was the contributions of his teammates that enabled Notre Dame to win for just the second time in its last seven opportunities. 
Point guard Martin Ingelsby poured in 15 points, while shooting guard Antoni Wyche and center Phil Hickey registered 13 apiece as the Irish posted four play­ers in double figures. 
Even forward Derek Manner got into the act against Georgetown, breaking an 0-14 shooting slump by hitting on 3-of-4 attempts for six points in 22 minutes. 
'That was the first time in quite awhile 
see M.B-BALL/ page 18 
/,f!  vs. Wisconsin, Tomorrow, 1 p.m.  a)  
!!  vs. Minnesota, Tomorrow, 9 a.m.  ...... --=  
• •  Track, Alex Wilson Invitational, Today, 7 p.m. · Fencing, Midwest Tearn Championships  riJ JS  

• HOCKEY 


By BILL HART Sports Writer 

Once again, it's that time of year for women's basketball fans. It's conference tourna­ment time, when the record slates are wiped clear and the run for postseason contention begins. 
While the Fighting Irish women's basketball team already has a strong case for selection in the NCAA's, advancing far in the Big East tournament which is set to open tomorrow at Rutgers University, will help make their case a little stronger. 
The top three seeds in the 
tournament are given first round byes, while the remain­ing seeds battle it out in five separate contests on Saturday. Notre Dame, after obtaining a fifth seed with a 12-6 confer­ence record, will face off against 12th seed St. John's at 2 p.m. 
The Red Storm heads into the tournament on a three-game losing streak, and have lost nine of their last eleven con­tests. After suffering a 86-50 loss to Connecticut, St. John's headed home to drop a 63-55 decision to West Virginia. On Tuesday, they closed out their season with a 64-49 defeat at Boston College. Junior guard Ebony Dickinson scored 11 points against the Huskies and had 13 points and 11 boards against the Mountaineers. Junior forward Adrijana Bedalov had a team-high 14 points against the Mountaineers. 

"They have two guards that penetrate well, and can shoot from outside," freshman for­ward Kelley Siemon said about the Hed Storm. "It's going to be hard to beat them three times, but I think we're going to be ready this time to shut them down." 
On the other end of the court, 
see W.B-BALLI page 18 








