!I Look to Scene for all the facts and figures on 
Friday
ND"s weekend football opponent, the Baylor Bears. 
OCTOBER30, 
Scene ·16-17 
1998 
THE 




The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 44 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
FRIDAY FEATURE 

\Defecting to ~ts and ~ters: tfte annua[ immigration 

Changes in majors 
common though 
reasons for switch 
vary significantly 
By FINN PRESSLY 
NewsWritt·r 
Today marks tlw last day for eourse discontinuanee at Notre Dame, and many students are forced to ehoose hntwmm wnaring a lab mat or a threo­pinen suit. 
Statisties publishml by the Ofliee of' Institutional Hesnarch indicate that in 1994, less than half' of' those who had dnclarml an initial intent to enter the College of' Sdnnen graduated from that 1~olleg«~: nearly a third of' those who startml out on the srinnen traek gradu­atPd from tlw College of' Arts and 
l.ntll~rs. 
Walsh llall sophomore Sheryl Ov1mnyer was one of' those who ldt the labs of' Ninuwland for the halls of' ()'Shaughnessy. 
"I switdwd to eure my own unhappi­
see MAJORS I page 6 

• fACULTY SENATE 


Malloy focuses on NO's progress 
By ROBERT PAZORNIK 
NcwsWrirer 
Mon~ than :wo members of the Notrn Dame faeulty eongn~gated in I >eBartolo IIall y1~stnrday afternoon for University President Father Edward Malloy's annual State of tlw University Address. 
Malloy spnkn to a variety of issues, inducting university policy, the statn of linancial affairs and schedule, as well as positive efforts whieh have maximized budgetary effi­ciency and increased overall financial prowess. Spending in 1997-1998 left more than $2.8 million in net surplus, which will be used to fund new aeade­mic programs and eover capitalization eosl'>, aceording to Malloy. 
lie also said that $18.5 million in unrestricted giving will be utilized to 
scholastic performance lovds. lin dtml U.S. News and World WE CAN TO ENSURE
Hnport statistics, recognizing that Notre Dam1~ finished one A STUDENT BODY MORE REP­
place highnr in the ovnrall uni­vnrsity quality poll by moving RESENTATIVE OF THE NATION, from I 9th to 18th position. AND WE REMAIN COMMITIED 
"You all know tlw story ... we 

moved up orw place," said TO ENSURING EVERY QUALI-Malloy. "Tiw good news is that FlED STUDENT THE OPPORTU­wn'm in good company. In my NITY TO MATRICULATE HERE.' 
'WE'RE DOING WHAT 
opinion, the schools abovn and bdow us are among the best in the nation, p1~rhaps ewm the best in the world." 
Malloy also discussed aspecls of the University that thn survey suggested an~ in nnml of improvement. 
"The two areas we sull'er the most in aro amdmnic mputation and financial rosourens," said Malloy. "Aemlemic wputation is judged on rnsearch and faculty visibility, in both of which we have been making attempts at improvement. llowever, the judgment of finance is not a true statistic." 
Malloy highlighted the positive quali­ties of the University's monetary 

FATHER EDWARD MALLOY UNIVERSITY PRESDIENT 
in gifts to the Generations Campaign," said Malloy. "We can be thankful that people have responded so quickly to the needs of the University." 
lie emphasized that Notre Dame's outlook remains bright and described the ongoing efforts made by the uni­versity's Admissions department to ensure a positive future. 
"!The Admissions department] 
remains dedicated to provid­ing a diverse student popula­tion representative of the high academic standards Notre Dame upholds," said Malloy. "We recently took an initiative in bringing a number of high school students to the campus who would not have ordinarily applied." 
Malloy also discussed meth­ods to inerease diversity in the student population, including the ever-controversial topic of affirmative action. 
"We cannot lose our momentum in regard to our 
increase the financial aid endowment, efforts of affirmative action," said as well as to initiate new faculty Malloy. ''I'm in favor of affirmative research. action. I've said it 100 times. We're 
For the first time Notre Dame, with doing what we can to ensure a student over six million dollars available in body more representative of the financial aid, has been designated nation, and we remain committed to among the top 20 universities in terms ensuring every qualified student the of value for the money, said Malloy, opportunity to matriculate here. who noted that this is in combination "In regard to recent changes in with a high ranking for overall quality national policy, [the University) is com-of edueation. 
"We have received over $132 million see MALLOY I page 6 in annual giving as well $680 million 

Plan for new SMC student center becomes reality 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
Plans to construct a new student eenter at Saint Mary's College are offieially underway after a consulting group visited the campus Wednesday to evaluate the need for studnnt space. 
Performa Consulting Group is nxpected to report back to the College by the nnd of the year to evaluate the type of space Saint Mary's stu­dents need and to make recommendations for constructing a new student center. 
The Student Life Committee first suggested the student center project last spring. The Board of Trustees, which now oversees the project, approved it at their Oct. 1 meeting. 
"The proposal was extremely well received by the board, and we're ready to move forward," said student trustee Stacy Davis. 
The student proposal calls for a new student center containing a general store, student govern­ment offices, rooms for campus events, guest' rooms for visiting scholars and alumnae and lounges with Internet hookups for study space. 
While all provisions of the proposal may not he plausible, moving forward with the plan is the main priority, according to student body president Sarah Seifert. 
"When we wrote this proposal, we were shoot­ing for the stars. We wrote everything we could dream up," Seifert said. "What is exciting is how much our trustees listen to us. That doesn't take place at many other institutions. We may not be 
see PERFORMA I page 4 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Darvvinistn vs. Creationistn 
As a Biology major, I hear from time to time the classic conflict of "Darwinism" ver­sus "Creationism." This has never been an issue with me, and through careful examina­tion I have found that the views are actually 
David LaHeist compatible. 
Phototgrapher and Ad 
Design
The entire conflict 
resides in that there are 
those that assume that if God created 

humans, He did it though some very sudden 
and spectacular ZAP! and there was Adam. 
But the reality that I have learned from my 
own experience is, God doesn't work though 
spectacular lightshows of instantaneous cre­
ation; most of the time He accomplishes His 
task through natural processes. 

Note, for instance, the way that I le created 
each individual. God starts with a single cell, 
that divides into a ball, then into a zygote, 
from that it develops into an embryo, then a 
fetus, then a baby, etc. People are created on 
an individual basis through a developmental 
process. There is no "ZAP." 

Another aspect of each individual's devel­
opment in which science actually God's role 
in human creation can be seen, is the miracle 
of development. All throughout 

Developmental Biology, I learned about all of 
the things that can go wrong with an embryo. 
Only a very slight problem in development 
can cause major birth defects. Here's the 
kicker: my professor one time said specifical­
ly said that "it is a miracle that anything ever 
develops correctly." As my knowledge 

increased, it became increasingly clear that 
God's hand must be directly involved in the 
creation of each person's life. 

So it's established that God has a hand is in 
changing a little alien-looking lump of cells 
into a functioning, thinking human being, 
and lie does it through a long, developmental 
process. The Bible says He made us out of 
clay. Science says that plants are made of 
dirt and water, and animals are made of 
plants and other animals, so ultimately sci­
ence agrees that we are made of clay and 
water. 

There is, however, a certain population of 
people who read the Bible, and are unwilling 
or unable to interpret it, even though it was 
written at a time when concepts were more 
important than facts, and to get the point 
across they sometimes used allegories. The 
fact is, no Old Testament scholar would have 
written exactly how many million years ago 
each event happened; as this kind of factual 
data is only important in the modern era, and 
it only distracts from the real point that the 
author is trying to make. What Genesis 1 con­
veys is this: God created the heavens, the 
Earth and all living things in a specific order, 
and that humans are a very special creation 
set apart from everything else. Open a Bible 
and a high school Biology book, and you will 
find striking correlations in the chronology of 
creation! 

I know by the way that He works in my own 
life that if He knows that I need something, it 
won't instantaneously appear with a "ZAP," 
but rather through a natural (and often sub­
tle) process I get what I need. God doesn't 
use theatrics unless He needs to in order to 
convince those of weak faith. Read the bible, 
look at His work in your own life, study biolo­
gy and decide for yourself. 

And one final thought: I use the word "He" 
in reference to God because I was brought up 
that Jesus taught us to pray the "Our 

Father." If the pronoun is good enough for 
him, it's good enough for me. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

News Scene 

Anne Marie Mattingly Sarah Dylag Erica Thesing Kristi Klitsch Brad Untiedt Graphics 
Sports Joe Mueller Mike Connolly Production Viewpoint Noah Amstadter 
Friday, October 30, 1998

The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Gender gap grows among computer science graduates 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
At a time when the Information Superhighway increases its speed limit on almost a daily basis, fewer women drivers are merging into the growing fields of technology and com­puter science. 
Less than 30 percent of computer and information science undergradu­ates are female, according to a American Association of University Women's Educational Foundation report released last week. The gender gap is even larger at the graduate level, the report stated. 
This national trend is even more apparent on campus. Currently, only 20 percent of the 1,888 undergradu­ate students in the computer science program are women, a sharp drop from 40 percent eight years ago. 
"We don't know why we are seeing this drop," said Gwen Kaye, the com­puter science undergraduate program 
• UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN New bill may bail out student activists 
MADISON, Wis. 
The Associated Students of Madison recently approved 
the allocation of funds for bail for civil disobedience. 
Campus activists who take their protests too far for police 
and end up in jail can get bailed out with student segregat­
ed fees. At last Thursday's meeting, ASM passed next 
year's internal budget, which will distribute approximately 
$600,000 to its various beneficiaries. Included in this bud­
get is an item for bailing out students arrested for actions 
of civil disobedience. Originally, Line 40 of the budget's 
resolutions called for a the creation of a "line item for bail 
for non-violent arrests and firearms." The firearms portion 
was removed and the bill passed. Leif Jorgensen, who co­
sponsored the original Line 40, intended the firearms to be 
used for educating the student body about gun use. "It was 
taken as jest, but I would have liked to have seen a certain 
respect for firearms come out of it," he said. 
• BoSTON UNIVERSITY Holocaust survivor celebrates birthday 
BOSTON, Mass. 
More than a thousand people gathered inside Boston 
University's Metcalf Hall early this week for a three-day 
birthday celebration for Elie Wiesel. And though the many 
friends, students and admirers greeted Wiesel with a 
standing ovation, silent awe soon overcame them, as they 
listened to one Holocaust survivor recount his story. 
"What to do?" Wiesel said. "I don't think the story can be 
told. Not in novels, poetry, testimony. But we must try to 
tell the story ... Once upon a time we were convinced we 
would talk and the world would tremble; either we talked 
and there was no tremble, or we haven't talked yet." Born 
70 years ago in Romania, Wiesel, an Andrew Mellon pro­
fessor of humanities at BU, has spent his life trying to tell 
his story as a Holocaust survivor so that the horrors may 
never be forgotten and may never be repeated. "To be 
silent is forbidden, to talk impossible. That is the basis of 
what confronts us," Wiesel said. 

• AUBURN UNIVERSITY Trustees account for Bowden's exit 
AUBUHN, Ala. 

Auburn University's Board of Trustees faces closer scrutiny as questions remain unanswered about board involvement with Terry Bowden's resignation. Inquiry ini­tially rested on what possible foreknowledge any mem­bers of the board had concerning Bowden's immediate future as head football coach. When seven of 12 board members told The Auburn Plainsman they had no infor­mation concerning Bowden's job security, inquiry nar­rowed its focus to the micromanagement of the board by one man -Robert E. Lowder. Trustee John V. Denson who has been on the board for 18 years, said, "I heard it (Bowden's resignation) on the radio. As far as I could tell, it was the action of one trustee -Bobby Lowder. Bobby Lowder had a problem with Bowden," he said. "This was not trustee action. This was the action of one of the trustees alone," Denson said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VmGIN!A Student submits false assault report 
CIIARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

Judge Stephen Hclvin found fourth-year college student Katherine Pollack guilty yesterday of submitting a false report to University Police. During the sentencing at Albemarle General District Court, llclvin emphasized the severity of Pollack's crime. "She deserves to go to jail," he said. The charge stemmed from a claim that she was attacked in Cauthen House in MarciL Following heated courtroom debate, Helvin ruled Pollack must perform 50 hours of community service, pay a $100 fine and seck out therapy. Pollack also received a suspended jail sentence of six months. In March, Pollack frightened Cauthen House residents when she reported that she had been attacked in the lobby-level bathroom of the dormitory. Pollack also said she had received a series of threatening e-m ails prior to the attack. University officials responded to the report by setting up an ID check in the lobby of Cauthen and by stationing three officers inside the dorm around the dock. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
l--.../-.:............. ·························ii•.•:s: 



·=,~x:.. 
4,~,~q~Q (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 

Larisa Kofman, president of the Women's Circle and a computer data­base editor, discussed explanations. 
She said women's reluctance to pur­sue computer science majors relates to "a general fear of technology," whereas men become int~rested in technology and have more of a hands­on experience at a young age. 
"Women assume the usual gender roles and learn what is acceptable," she said. "Here's a stereotypical situa­tion: In an office, women are getting the grunt work. They are typing memos, writing inter-office mail and doing other data entry things. There isn't an opportunity to work on or research the web." 

To combat the developing problems, both professional and private, the Society of Women in Computer Science develops programs to help the 374 female computer science majors on campus. 
The SWCS formed last year to sup­port the decreasing number of women in computer science, according to SWCS co-organizer Maria Jump. 
"As a group, we are trying to gener­ate a web of support for women who arc interested in the field of computer science, to help them adjust to the program and to provide them with positive role models from within," Jump said. 
Spencer Stefko Lab Tech Kevin Dalum 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Asheville  77  46  Houston  84  66  Orlando  86  65  
Boston  52  38  Las Vegas  49  31  Phoenix  74  56  
Dallas  80  63  Los Angeles  67  54  Portland  58  47  
Denver  44  26  Miami  84  70  Reno  57  27  
Fairbanks  32  17  New York  56  42  Wichita  66  45  

friday, October 30, I 99R The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Police continue investigation of fatal accident 

ligate a fatal ear and pndestrian "Witnnss1~s report that the Coach's Sports Bar when he details arc currently available
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
accident that occurred in the· pedP.strian. Brian O'Meara of was struck by a northbound about the amount of alcohol in
N,·ws Edi<or 2000 bl()(:k of South Bend Ave. Ottowa, Canada, was crossing cab driven by David Yarbrough O'Meara's systnm at the lime of Thn South Bnnd Police ncar Coach's sports bar last South Bend Ave. going from the of South Bend," said Corporal the crash. dPpartnwnt continues to inves-
Saturday night at 9:39 p.m. north to the south towards William Kraus of the South Coach's general manager Bend police department's traf­Thad Schmidt was working at fic section in the time of th1~ an Oct. 25 incident and report. said that the 
O'Meara bar's employ­was neither a 'WE CALLED 911 ... ees immedi­
student· nor WE TRIED TO KEEP ately tried to an alumnus of gf~t help and
PEOPLE AWAY, BUT BY THE
t h e s t a b i I i z ll University, TIME THE PARAMEDICS GOT O'Meara. but was "The driver
THERE, HE WAS D.O.A.'
reportedly in swervnd to town for the avoid Army game. (O'Meara). but
TI/AIJ SCIJMIDT 

Yarbrough, unfortunately
GENERAL MANAGER
driving a van he swerved 
COACH's SPOR1:~· /JAil
used as a cab into him. We for the called 911. Michawaka One of our American Cab Company, pre-med [nmployecs) went out allegedly struck O'Meara caus­and stabilized his head so no ing "an internal head injury as one would move him. We tried well as possible neck injuries," to keep people away, but by the the probable direct causes of time the paramedics got tlwm, his death, Kraus continued. he was D.O.A.," Schmidt said. 
"Alcohol was a part of the "A lot of people inside Coach's accident on the part of the didn't even know what was pedestrian but not on the part going on outside," he eontin­of the driver," Kraus said. No und. 
Mishawaka Cab Company owner Jim Payton said that Yarbrough will not suffer any professional repnreussions as a result of the aecident but that his organization has been shak­en up by the death. 
"In IR years in the business, we never had lanyl problem. The driver is still in shoek about it-all the drivers really. We've all been trying to talk to him," Payton said. "The guy was drinking, and the driver's free and dear. It's just orw of those things." 
Facts from the continuing investigation will be compiled and referred to the prosecutor's of'fice. At this point. Kraus dons not anticipat1~ any anests being made in the ease. 

Deloitte & 

the answer ,• s Touche 
Oeloitte & Touche is an equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or veteran status. 
Got News? 1-5323 


Explore the 
village ...
• TEN THOUSAND feel the 
VILLAGESn. rhythm! 
919 W. McKinley Mishawaka 255-3536 Mon. -Sat. 10-6 
©1998 Oeloi tte & Touche LLP. 
FAIRLY TRADED HANDICRAFTS FROM AROUND THE WORLD 

------------~-­
page 4 
Friday, October 30, 1998
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


• CORRECTION 
In a photo in yesterday's Observer, law professor Charles Rice was incorrectly identified as acting director of Career and Placement Services Russell Kitchner. Furthermore, Rice was not addressing Student Senate but a lecture audience at the Knights of Columbus. 
The Observer regrets the error. 
Got Something to Say? Use Observer classifieds. 




10°/o Off 
. Any Purchase ~of $100 or more. 
l Offer expires 1/18/99 

~-----------------------------------------­8U~tl lJrime Outlets Michigan City, IN •219,874,7777 
Perfor01a 
continued from page 1 
able to do everything, but the board was very receptive." 
The proposed student cen­ter's main advantage will be expanded study and social space since the student popu­lation is expected to reach 1,750 by the year 2002, Seifert said. 
The center will also serve as a selling point for the College's recruitment effort and as a way to increase campus jobs, helping Saint Mary's to be "recognized as an independent institution and increase stu­dent pride." 
Furthermore, groups will be more likely to host events on campus, said Davis. 
"Student events are forced to go off-campus for events like Sophomore Parents Weekend, Junior Moms Weekend and Senior Dads Weekend," she said. "When parents come to town, students want to be able to share the campus. Having space on campus will also help keep ticket prices to these functions down." 

Haggar College Center, the College's current student cen­ter, houses space for confer­ences, social events, student government, First Source Bank, Travel More, Student Activities Office, a snack bar, an off-campus student lounge, the bookstore and the Multicultural Resource center. 
While the proposal does rec­ognize that the center has "served [the] College well," student need is changing, said Seifert. 
"When the college was con­structed, events were a lot more formal. The men came to visit the women in parlors. We're different than that now; we need different things," she said. 
"There are very few lounges and 24-hour social spaces in the dorms," Seifert continued. "Haggar closes, and [the cam­pus] is not all that conducive to getting together with friends." 
Performa will draft recom­mendations in their report for types of student space, cost and a timeline for construc­tion. After the evaluation is completed, the project ean move forward, Davis said. 
"Right now, we're just wait­ing for Performa," said Davis. "The most important thing is that this proposal has been well-reecivcd. We want to cre­ate a community here that we are proud of." 

Earn one credit while learning in a city ... continue the tradition ~~N~~-!N~ 



1rlhle UJr1b21Im IP!umrnge §emiu:m2llf 
The Urban Plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ...to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the Urban Plunge. As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past have included: 
Albany New Orleans 
Atlanta  Memphis  
Brooklyn  Nashville  
Harlem  Seattle  
Baltimore  Phoenix  
Washington  Honolulu  
Los Angeles  and many more sites  

As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model ofexperientiallearning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. 
The last info session will be on November 2, at 9:00 at the CSC. 
I 

For additional information, contact the Center for Social Concerns@ 631-5293 or visit j our website: http://www.nd.edu:80/~ndcntrsc 
I 

Application Deadline-Friday, N~vembcr 6 ----l 


THE BElGER MANSION INN 
MICHIANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! 
Voted best entree "Taste ofMiclliana", 1998. Big city dining witll small town atmospllere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservations accepted. 
We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 
317 LINCOLNWAY EAST* MISHAWAKA* INDIANA 255-3939 


Friday. October 30. 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
the firn at this sehoul of S,700 students. 
l~ttMMIM&JWlliiJ!M 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Car drives through courthouse 
NOHWALK. Conn. 

A driverless Ford Explorer, rigged with a pien~ of wood so1that its gas pedal was jamnwd to tlw floor. eraslwd through the front doors of tlw 1·ourthouse in the middle of tlw night Thursday. causing exten­sive damagP. Tlw stolen vnhide had been aimf'd at thP Superior Court building from a shopping center parking lot dimctly across till' stre1~t. "It was inll~ntional. The car was rigged." said Trial Court Administrator Lorraine Murphy. Statn police said someone had used a piece of wood to knep the accelnrator down. Sgt. Anthony Schirillo Ill said poliee had no suspeets. The vnhide jumped the eurb in front of the eourthouse. erashnd through the doors and drove almost the entire length of the first floor until it plowed through a brick wall. 
School suspends girl for hot sauce 
CASTLE HOCK. Colo. 

A sixth-grade girl was suspended from 
school for passing around a eapful of Dave's 
Insanity <;ourmet lint S<wee and giving stom­
ach adws to morn than a dozen classmates. 
No 0111' heeanw seriously ill in the incident 
WPdrwsday at Hock JUdge Elementary 
School. "I think it was an innoeent dare that 
turned out to have real serious conse­
quences," school distrid spokeswoman Jill 
Fox said. Till' girl poured sonw of the sauee 
into tiH' bottle cap during morning snark 
tinw and let students dip their lingers into it 
for a taste. Six pupils went home after being 
rherhd by paramedics. Eight others com­
plairwd of stomach aches but remained in 
sl'hool. and orw girl was trnatnd at thn school 
rlinir. 
Police charge seven in dorm fire 
MUHHAY. Ky. 

Stud1~nts at Murray State University wore 
feeling a little saf1~r Thursday upon hearing 
the news that sevnn pnopln had been charged 
with sntting a dormitory fire that killed a 
dassmatn. "Most people would say if they 
lward a lin~ alarm. they would just freak," 
said sophomore Bnmt Underhill. 20. "A lot of 
pnopln didn't seem to know why it would 
lakn so long to find out who did it." 
Five studnnts were among thn seven people 
charged in the early-morning fire on the 
fourth rloor of the eight-story Hester 
llall dormitory on Sept. lS. Killed was 
Michal' I Mingnr. I1), of Niceville, Fla. Four 
otlwr studnnts were injured, one seriously. 
Capital crimes are a rare occurrence in 
Murray. a wmmunity of 17.000 in the gently 
rolling hills of w1~stern Kentucky not far 
from tlw Tennessee border. So far. no one is 
comnwnting publicly on a possible motive for 



Glenn, Discovery successfully lift off 
AssociATED PRESS 
CAPE CANAVEHAL, Fla. 

.John Glenn renewed his place in space history Thursday, "one American legend" among a crew of heroes. "Boy, enjoying the show," he beamed, in orbit again at long last. "This is beauti­ful." 
The first American to orbit the Earth became the world's oldest spaceman when the 77-year-old Glenn and six crewmates young enough to be his children lifted off aboard the space shuttle Diseovery at 2:19p.m. EST. 
Hepeating the words of his first flight, he said, "It's still a trite old statement: Zero-g and I feel line." 
"Let the record show that John has a smile on his face and it goes from one ear to the other one and we haven't been able to remove it yet," said shuttle commander Curtis Brown Jr. 
It was a space sequel with all the right stuff. Discovery's departure a mere 19 1/2 minutes late was practically routine compared with Glenn's oft­postponed, pioneering flight. 
"Liftoff of Discovery with six astronaut heroes and one American legend" launch commentator Lisa Malone said. 
The launeh was marred when an 18-by-22-inch drag-chute door fell from the shuttle's tail and struck an engine moments before liftoff. But NASA said it will pose no risk to the crew when the shuttle returns to Earth on Nov. 7 after the nine­day flight. 
In taking the second spaceflight of his life, Glenn realized a dream that he never thought possible. llis return to space as the first orbiting geriatric test subject captured the American imagination, so much so that hundreds of thousands of people jammed the area to see the retiring senator off. 
President Clinton, the first president to witness a shuttle liftoff, pronounced Glenn's flight "a great day for America and a great day for our senior citi­zens." 
As the low man on Discovery's crew, the Democratic senator from Ohio -riding as a mere Payload Specialist No. 2-sat in the middle seat of the windowless bottom deek for launch, staring at a row of metal lockers. Hn wore a baggy orange suit with a U.S. !lag stitched to his left shoulder, a contrast to his sleek silver suit of Mercury. 
Soon after reaching orbit, however, Glenn unstrapped himself and for the first time ever float­ed free and weightless. Back in 1962, he never got out of the seat of his cramped Friendship 7 Mercury capsule during his live-hour, three-orbit flight and had little time for sightseeing. 
"First report is great. I don't know what happens on down theline, but today is beautiful and great, and Hawaii is, I just can't even describe it," Glenn said, 340 miles up and three hours into his Diseovery flight. 
Scott Carpenter, watching with the two other surviving Mereury astronauts from the press site four miles away, sent his best wishes to the crew and reprisnd his immortal benediction from 1962: 
'----""-'-~----------------------__..J 
AFPPhala 

The Shuttle Discovery lifts off the launch pad Thursday at Kennedy Space Center, Florida. Discovery carried a seven-person international crew which will perform several scientific experiments during their nine 
day mission. 

"Good luck, have a safe flight 
and ... once again, Godspeed, 
John Glenn." 

It took 11 attempts over two 
months for Glenn to blast off on 
America's first manned orbital 
flight. This time, a single try 
was enough; the weather was 
perfect and the countdown was 
interrupted only by a minor 
alarm problem and then five 
stray planes that delayed liftofl' 
19 minutes and 34 seeonds. The 
pilots were angling for good 
views of the launch. 

What would have been a rou­
tine science flight attracting lit­
tie notice outside space circles 
was transformed into a media 
spectacle by Glenn's participa­
ti6n. 

Sky-writing pilots spelled out 
Glenn's name in billowing white letters oil' in the distance as the countdown entered its final hour. 
Hundreds of thousands of people who started jamming beaehes and roads days ago cheered as Glnnn and his ship soared toward the horizon, just as so many did a generation and more before. 
Some burst into tears, others applauded and still others embracedin joy. Even the T­shirt and junk food hawkers paused to witness this inspiring moment in space history. 
"It was the coolest thing I evnr saw," said 7-year-old Sam Prince of St. Louis. 
Tears welled up in the eyes of 31-year-old Colleen DuLac of Carmel. Ind. "I knew I was going to cry," she said. 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
GUSH KATIF JUNCTION 
It took only a second for Israeli sol­diers escorting the school bus to realize something was terribly wrong. Within rnomonts, two people were dead. Within hours, Yasser Arafat launched an unprecedented crackdown on Islamic militants. Arafat put Sheik Ahmed Yassin under house arrest Thursday after his militant Islamic group. Hamas, claimed responsibility for the bombing that targeted the red-and­white bus full of elementary school children. 
The 40 students on board were saved -not a single one was hurt -but the car bomb killed an Israeli soldier in the jeepr a 19-yea.r-ol9 immigrant from Ukraine now being praised as a fallen hero. 
Political,reverberations from the explosion -the first suicide attack against Israelis in six months -were swift. Coming only six days after the signing of a land-for-securi· ty agreement in Washington, it was a destabilizing new factor in what is already a highly delicate prelude to implementing the accord. That process is to start next week. 
Blocking the pact is the avowed goal of f:Iamas, which bitterly opposes any peace with Israel. llamas has carried out attacks that havekilledscoresoflsraelis. 
As the bus from Kfar Darom, an isolated Jewish settlement in the heart of the Palestinian-controlled Ga:z;a Strip, passed a busy intersectjqn. 't.h,Rrt:~d~y, a car with 

Palestinian plates tried ·to cut ·\teen, under house arrest. 
into the convoy and ram it. 
The lead army jeep, Ollfl or two escorting tho bus. rushed to block the car's path -and took the brunt of a blast so powerful it flipped the jeep like a toy, leaving it lying charred and mangled in the soft, early morning light. 
It was a suicide blast; the ear's dri­ver died too. Six others -three Israelis and three Palestinians ­were hurt. Israeli troops quickly sealed ofT tho Gaza Strip, preventing any Palestinians from leaving. 
In response, Arafat's Palestinian Authority took what bas been one of its strongest steps ever against Hamas: it placed Yassin, the group's spiritual leader who has been nearly paralyzed and in a wheelchair since. an accident as a 
Dow AMEX: 6]7.4!!
}ONES +2.96 Nasdaq: 1757.19 
+19.X4 
NYSE: 
5]6.]1 
+X.66

str 
S&J> 500: 

Composite Volume: 
129!!.34 
+21.66

+123.06 841,625,910 MOST TH.ADED STOCKS 
I ()MI'A!S)' ru .,;tg 'tbCIIANCjt I ljAJN I'KU I 
ca.NA <"OR I' nF.N •2tdl2 ~.i.IK75 15.4375 OHI.UlMI'UH:Jt IH.I.L • ..i9 +.2500 64.H75 CISCO SYSTEMS csco · .. 10 -. IB7S 62.6B7.1 \AHSI<:IN CllRI' SFSK -l.i.IJ ·.1.2500 21.5 ,\PPI.II"Il \tAH.RIAI. AMAT +.i.66 +1.251MJ 35.4]75 INTF.I ( ORI' INTC +.60 •.53U 89,75 Mel WORI.J)COM INC WCOM +.HI +.4.175 54.5 I'ARt.XF.I. INTI. I'RXI. -41.90 ·15. 1875 21.0625 I'ARAMHRIC: ri.CII I'MTC +16.00 +2.5000 IK. 125 MICROSOFT CORI' MSFI' +.89 +.9375 106.625 


Hamas claims suicide bombing 
--------------------~----~-­
.. 

------,.------------~..----~--..----------~---------~----=~--~------­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Majors 
continued from page 1 
ness," said Overmyer, who changed her focus from physics to economics and philosophy. 
"I realized that the questions which Arts and Letters asked were the ones that I'd rather spend my undergraduate experience endeavoring to answer. I see that my education and intellectual development here is a necessary part of my becoming a better Christian -I just couldn't see that being a hard science major would help me in this.~· she said. 
Overmyer's decision is common among students who use the First Year of Studies as a way to experiment in a variety of areas that interest them. 
"The First Year of Studies is ideal in that it allows students to experiment with a variety of classes before settling down into an exact major," said Angie Chamblee, associate dean of the First Year of Studies. 
It is this process that often convinces students to reconsider their dreams of becoming doctors or scientists and explore possibilities in other depart­ments. 
"Some students come to the University with an intent to be a medical doctor, and they do it for a variety of reasons. But when they go through the classes, they decide that's not what they really want to do," Chamblee explained. 
Many students are able to leave the College of Science without sacrificing their dreams of becoming doctors, how­ever, by taking advantage of the Arts and Letters Pre-professional (ALPP) Program. 
Welsh Family Hall sophomore Jennifer Getman switched to ALPP for a variety of reasons. 
"I felt that science is more for people who want to do research, and 1 want to work with people and practice medi­cine," she said. "I also felt that taking liberal arts classes would make my edu­cation more well-rounded." 

Other students have also stayed within the medical field, but chosen the nursing program offered by Saint Mary's. 
"I decided that wasn't the right route for me because what I wanted to do I could do without being a doctor. That's why I'm looking into the nursing pro­

gram at St. Mary's," said Howard Hall sophomore Lauren Frost. 
Meanwhile, many students choose to stay within the College of Science, because, logically enough, that's where their interests lie. 
"Basically, I like science classes better, so I would rather take less Arts and Letters classes than science classes," explained Howard Hall sophomore Holly Ray. 
Keough Hall sophomore Matt Hedden cites similar reasons for remaining a math and physics major. 
"I really fmd math and science inter­esting, whereas I don't know if I could handle the increased reading and writ­ing that Arts and Letters requires," said Hedden. 
John Uhran, associate dean of the College of Engineering, claims that most students shift their programs from his concentration to other colleges after encountering problems they hadn't expected. 
"I think students don't really know quite what their interests are as fresh­men. When they start going down a path that is not what they expect, they look into other things," said Uhran, adding that receiving lower grades than expected can often influence one's deci­sion. 
Uhran also said that the Colleges of Science and Engineering offer strict course sequences into which very Iew students transfer. Going back and fulfill­ing the required credits from the First Year of Studies would result in taking extra semesters on campus. 
"We do have an occasional student [from Arts and Letters) because we have a five-year Arts and Letters engineering program. Some students who have done that either have that latent interest in them and after they start in Arts and Letters fmd out this program exists, or have done well in science and math and will often times start the program late. So, we do get a few Arts and Letters stu­dents," said Uhran. 
According to Institutional Research, only seven percent of those that declared an intent to study in Arts and Letters ended up in the College of Science, and just one percent graduate from the College of Engineering. 

Friday, October 30, 1998 

Malloy 
continued from page 1 
mitted to being legally right, but also to the goals and purposes of this institution," he continued. 
Rounding out the address, Malloy reiterated the admirable state of the university, as well as the dedication to progress and prominence demonstrated over the past year. 
"If you look at most indicators, we're making significant progress. We've increased our prowess and visibility at national and interna­tional levels," said Malloy. "We have what appear to be good overall indicators of the University's strength, and we hope [to continue) striving towards excellence." 
Immediate response to the address was posi­tive. 
"He gave an accurate accounting of the steps that we've made in the past years and laid out some challenges for the future." said Cornelius Delaney, professor of philosophy. "He made it clear that the resources were there and he was optimistic that we would reach our goals." 
"He spoke very strongly of progress," agmed Dr. Saddawi of the chemical engineering depart­ment. "All the centers are making due progress ... I agree with everything that Father Malloy said." 
Some however, expressed disappointment that Malloy did not specifiely address issues which he had focused on in previous years, namely efforts to curb underage student drinking. 
"There was no follow-up," said Lucy Payne, a research librarian at the Notre Dame Law School. "Last year, a major part of the report paid attention to drinking. But this year, Father Malloy didn't mention whether or not we have achieved our goals." 
In response to this eriticism which was shan~d by most in attendance. Malloy delivered a gener­al statement, but declined to actually discuss the issue. 
"In general, I try to address matters that are faculty related. This is more of an issue for the undergraduate council," said Malloy. 


Saturday,
The 

October 31st,


Notre 
1998


Datne (All Hallow's Eve, Baylor Weekend)
Folk 8:30pm Choir Basilica of the Concert Sacred Heart 
A contribution 
fOr the will be collected toMissions benefit the Missions of the 
Vigil Mass at the Basilica (30 minutes after the game) Congregation of and at Stepan Center Holy Cross. (l\MPUS (45 minutes after the game). MINISTRY 
Friday, October 30, 1998 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Lost wallets subject to search 
Opposing parties meet to share information 
By ROBERT PAZORNIK Republican club vice News Writer president. "For example, Hepubllcans aren't just a 
Republicans and bunch of old men out to Democrats aren't the most take over the world." likely of compatible pairs, In addition to informing but during a friendly infor­student voters on issues mational moeting such as campaign finance Wednesday at Lyons Hall, reform and tax initiatives, smiles and laughter pre· representatives also specu­vailed. lated about the possible 
Notre Dame Republican outcomes of Tuesday's and Democrat clubs joined nation.ttl vote. forces in hosting the first "The Democrats, in par­
in a serios of Informative ticular, are traditionally sessions. In the confer­susceptible to low voter ences, which last approxi­turnout," said Larkin. mately one or two hours, "That seems to be the student representatives of Hepublicans' goal this year both clubs give a general -to keep the Democrats synopsis of the upcoming from the polls." election, including infor­"There are a lot of policy mation regarding the can­Issues out there," said didates' views, pr,evious Kiwala. "Hopefully, ses­voting records and cam­sions like this will allow paign platforms. students to hear both sides 
Students are encouraged of an issue; they are totally to ask questions and club interactive." representatives are more Response to the session than willing to give them was positivn. answers. "This is the first thing of 
"These meetings should its kind on campus," said provide an opportunity for Patrick Blaney, a sopho­students to ask policy more government major. questions and become "It's great to hear people more familiar with tho w.ith passionate opinions issues at hand in the on the major issues." upcoming olection," said "Information I learned Keven Larkin, president of about the l'lnt tax really the Notre Dame Democrats swayod me,·· said Rima 
club. "Our goal is to help Girnius, a junior art histo­students .make better ry major. "As 1m art major, informed decisions." I'll be living on the streots, 
"There are a lot of mis­so information about tax ~-· conceptions out there," programs means a lot to said Terry Kiwala, me." 
By TIM LOGAN 
Assistant N~-ws Editor 
t\ Notre Damn Security/Police praetiee which punishes students for posst1ssion of false identiliea­tion found in lost wallets has been questioned by students in rneent wm~ks. 
It is standard proced un1 for Security to take an inventory of all items found and delivert1d to them. This involves listing all the contents of a bag or wallet ­including illegal items like fake IDs -which are occasionally fimnd during the proenss. 
Thn policy is intended to docu­nwnt which. if' any, contnnts of an item wnrn prt1sent whnn Security rncnived it, said Hnx Hakow, dirt1ctor of Notre Dame Sneurity/Poliee. If anything illegal is discovnrnd. it is removed, and the owner is cited. 
Ssome feel. howevnr. that this policy goes further than what is necessary to determine owner­ship of a lost item. 
"I think it's ridiculous," said one junior who was reported to Hesidcnce Life after a false dri­ver's license was discovered in his lost wallet. "They could have seen everything they needed to see without going through it." 
Hakow noted that many of those who are concerned about this policy are the ones who suf­fer because of it. 
"Usually the ones who arc dis­turbed by it arc the ones who get caught," he said. 
This procedure is similar to the 0011 used by hospitals when try­ing to determine the identifica­tion of an accident victim. Hakow noted that finding two different identifications in such a situation ean create confusion for hospital workers and even lead to hospital workers calling the wrong per-
son's parents about the accident. "Ultimately, (carrying a fake] is not a wise thing to do," he said. 
False identification is found in anywhere from 20 to 50 recov­ered wallet<> each year, according to Rakow. Security usually reports these violations to the Office of Hesidence Life instead of to county prosecutors who can file eharges against students. 
"We're probably not going to charge a felony, which we could do," Rakow said. Under Indiana state law, possession of false identification is a class C misde­meanor, carrying a maximum punishment of 60 days in jail and a $500 fine. 
Residence Life usually renders a smaller fine or service hours for possession of false identifica­tion. A standard punishment is 20 hours of service, according to Jeffrey Shoup, director of Hesidence Life. 




Introducing ... 

• "Castle Point Select" 
•
• Designed for the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --Just Compare! • • Unfurnished or Furnished • • Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
• • •27" Stereo Television •Cherry Finished Furnishings • Microwave, Toaster, ••• Coffee Maker • All Dishes, Cookware, Linenes & New Bedding ••• •Plus Much More • 
• Million Dollar Renovation • 
• LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft), Starting at $457.00 • 
• LARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 sq ft), Starting at $559.00 
• 
Included with rentals --Free full privilege membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including: *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool *3 • Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor Basketball *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts 
•
• Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Popular Apartments ••••• While They Last! • •• 

• 
(Qst{e Point o\_pQrtments 

• • CfevdQn() @ Jronwoo() J\oQ()s • 272-8110 
• www.cctstfe-point.com • )t{onCict!-j -SctturCict!-j 8 ctm -6 pm SunCict!-j 12 pm-5pm 
FOR RENT 302 N. Walsh Avenue 
Comer of LaSalle and Walsh 2 BR/1 BA/Appliances. Screened in Porchw/Deck Great Location I mi. South of Notre Dame. Plenty of room for three people. $900 mo. 287-2799. Ask for Patti. 


~~------------------------------------~ 
The Observer • SPECIAL AD SECTION Friday, October 30, 1998 

o 
Trivia 


o 
7 ft TV Screens 

o 
Seating for Over 300 


o 
Extra Large Booths 

o 
Mouth Watering Variety of Sandwiches and Entrees 


the 
Q, Homemade & Breads Q, Appetizers 
Q  Salads  
~>  Sandwiches  
and PASTA  

, IN as well!! 
Come enjoy 
theND Game at Coach'• 
No matter where you're from, we'll be showing your team 
Bar Open for Lunch Friday & Saturday 
··:;. nWitllfifg'~Uisfafiee·from Campus" ... 

an .. oun!!e 
Authentic Szechuan, Mandarin and Hunan Cuis:.:;in-.e~!'-ml 
•Lunches 
starting at .... $4.25 

•Dinners 
starting at .... $5.95 

•
Banquet rooms available up to 200 


Sunday Buffet-Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children Quick and Easy Set Menu for Football Weekends!! 
Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week 11 :OOam -3:OOpm 
(219) 272-7376 •130 Dixie Way N., South Bend• FAX 272-7425 • (next to Howard Johnson) • Call For Reservations 
'GO NDI BEAT BAYLOR! 

··~-FREE EXTRAS C?­
• Parmesan Cheese Crust • Gar11c Buttr:r Crust 
• Extra Pizza Sauce • Side Of Banana Peppers ·Nst:A* 
I*FREE DELIVERY ON CAWi!3* I 
NOTRE DAME AREA 
S.R. 
23 (East of Ironwood) 



243-1111 
.. 
t:· 
r 


52750 U.S. 33 N. (Between Cleveland &Darden Rd.) 

-------------------~---------­Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer· SPECIAL AD SECTION page 9 
After the Game. • • 

277-7400 
•Breakfast 
served all day •Lunch •Dinner 

•Or 
a anack ANmME 



Just Minutes from Campus 

bw-3 is the place to catch all the big college and pro football games. With 6 sattelites, 20 TVs, and ESPN's College Game Day, and NFL Sunday ticket football packages, we've got your game.
Sports Grill & Pub 
123 W.Washlngton St. 
Downtown South Bend 
1/2 Block West of College Football Hall of Fame 
r-----,r---7-,r-~---, 
j .

I I I ._ (/.J ~., I I .JJ I 
I $12 00 I Football game and a soft drink for
• I I (aa early aa 9:30am) I 1 $S OO •..I (carryout only) • . IExpire• 12/28/98 obsmap 1 IExpires 11/28/98 obsma:J IExpires 12/28/98 obsmap 1_ 
.'---~--.... .______ ...-----~-~ 
·,. 





r ~ 
~-----~·--~------------­

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 30, 1998 


Choral reading to 
affiriD huiDan rights 
By EMILY PARKER NewsWdter 
In celebration of the 50th anniversary of .the UniVersal Declaration of Human Rights, Saint Mary's will host a choral reading of the declaration on Sunday night. 
Co-sponsored by the Saint Joseph County Chapter of the United Nations Association of the 
U.S.A. (UNA-USA), the reading will feature six speakers. 
"Because the Universal Declaration is such a sig~ nificant expression of human aspirations and because its anniversar.y commemoration comes ata time when human rights are being threatened in many countries, it is highly appropriate that Saint Mary's College should sponsor this program in honor of the document and the work in its service," said Marilou Eldred, presi­dent of Saint Mary's. 
"This is a concern in the global community,'' said Robert Hohl, program chairman of the UNA-USA for St. Joseph County. "ttis important for Saint Mary's to sponsor this because when we talk about human rights in the world of today. women are bereft of their rights in many coun­tries." 
"To hear the words of the document by reciting the document. we then pledge ourselves to the goals stat­ed," Hohl said. ''There are more refugees now than after World War Il. These are internal refugees ­people who are displaced in their own countries. And this document was written to examine their human rights as well as those of people who live in America." 
Sunday's reading begins at 7:30 p.m. in the Little Theatre at Moreau Center for the Arts and will be led by assistant professor of 
Biosphere 2: Semester ''Abroad'' 
Fal/1999 & Spring 2000 
Application packets now available: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall Students interested in participating Next Semester (Spring 1999) need to stop in ASAP. 
Application Deadlines: December 1, 1998 -for Fall 1999 February 15, 1999 -for Spring 2000 
theater Katie Sullivan. 
Other readers include 
Hohl. ·assotiate profess¢'~ of 
English Thomas Bonnell, 
associate professor of mod­
ern languages·· Ma,rta 
Derakshani and two stu­
dents, Melony Smith and 
Charmaine Samaraweerit.. 
Other activities on 
Sunday include musical 
perform~~cnces .•.... }ly . t}le 
Morrow Faanily Ensemltle 
as well as Jeffrey Jacobs, a 
pianist..........•.··.. . . ... . .... 
Garth ~~intjes, a:ssot;i~te 
director of the .center for Civil and Humau Rights .at Notre DaQ}e's Law Scnoph will also give a· sp~ech titled, "Reneyving .. o~r .. Promis.e: .The:Jjni:vliJ~.~~~
Declaration Of Hurii.an 
Rights at Fifty." ·. . . · 
.This wil~ he a kickqfs to 
mOre programs to examine 
human rights rigorously, 
accordingtoHohL .· ... < 7. . 
Amongithe ·.additiobal 
activities will be a student 
panel. discuss.ion ah?ut 
experiences with hliin<tn 
rights in the Haggar Center 
at.Saint Mary's on Nov. 11, 
a photographic exhibit.<~:nd 
a visit by a Maryknoll Jn:is" 
sionary in. Brazil. 
UNA·U.~A ex~sts to ~~P· port the United Nations' goals and has been active 
in. this area forabout 30 
years. The group works to 
educate citizens and to 
promote the work of l).nd 
correct misconceptions 
about the United Nations. 
In this area, UNA-USA 
sells United Nations 
International Children's 
Education Fund (UNICEF) 
cards, the proceeds fr.om 
which fund medical care as 
well as provide educational 
materials for third wqrld 
countries. 

The U.N.Os General 
Assembly adopted the 
Declaration of Human 
Rights on Dec. 10, 1948. 
Eleanor Roosevelt, the first 
chairperson of the l),N. 
Commission on Human 
Rights. said that this dol;u­
ment was "a greateventin 
the life ofmankind." 




Politics cause call to impeach 
SMC profs discuss effects ofpublic opinion, parties 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Public opinion and party poli­tics are among the reasons that some leaders call for the impeachment of President Clinton, according to professors from various departments at Saint Mary's in a roundtable discussion Thursday. 
Party politics are a factor in the effort to impeach Clinton as they were in the effort to impeach former President Richard Nixon, said political sci­ence professor Sean Savage. 
"If you ask Newt [Gingrich] or Trent [Lott] about investigating the impeachment charges against Clinton, they will say they are just doing what they are supposed to do as members of Congress," Savage said. 
However, Savage said confu­sion exists about what impeach­able offenses are. 
"This uncertainty comes from the founders of the U.S. grafting something from a parliamentary system onto a system with a separation of powers," he said. 
Getting the House of Hepresentatives to impeach Clinton will be easier than in the Senate, Savage said, because the Senate tends to be more stringent in terms of rules, evi­dence and what is or is not an impeachable offense. 
"The Senate is where Kenneth Starr really has to earn his pay," Savage said. "Whether the Senate impeaches depends on if they see the offenses brought by the House as being as serious." 
The group also addressed the difference between the Clinton scandal and the attempt to impeach Nixon. History profes­sor Kelly Hamilton emphasized that Watergate was not initially a personal scandal for Nixon. 

"What it focused on was Nixon's duties in office," Hamilton said. "Very clearly, Nixon broke the law. Very clear­ly, he did it systematically." 
Hamilton also addressed Clinton's continued high approval ratings. 
"It is the nature of the time we live in," she said. "The American people knew he had certain proclivities when we elected him, and we knew about Gennifer Flowers. 
"Nixon really did abuse power but Clinton just screwed up being Clinton. I think that what you were lied to about counts a lot," Hamilton said. 
Additionally, the American people expect more than just someone to deal with the day­to-day operations of the nation, according to Savage. 
"The AmerTtan people expect the president to wear two hats," Savage said. "We expect him to be the leader of our nation ­the chief law officer -but then we have this sense that he is our symbolic leader, too." 
With regard to Clinton's attempt to apologize to the pub­lic for his relationship with Monica Lewinsky in his Aug. 17 speech, professor of English Tom Bonnell said Clinton was off the mark. 
"The speech in itself was a dreadful miscalculation, one of 
any of our campus stores or shop our web site: www.ndcatalog.com. 
For catalog information or to order these items by phone, please call: 800-647-4641. 
the worst rhetorical mistakes ever," Bonnell said. "This is a man who can give one hour and 10 minute State of the Union Addresses but then gives a four minute apology. 
"The apology part of the speech was very muffled and ... was insufficiently contrite," he said. "That speech satisfied no one, not even Clinton's support­ers." 

tr>s~~ve.,~~ 
uf yo!-1 w~ote 
fo~ t-1S1 we 
Wo~AidV\'t 
have to p~At a 
fille~ he~e. 
$3,75 ALL SHOWS BEFORE 6 PM $3.75 SENIORS & CHILDREN· $6.001\DULTS 
STEREO SURROUNO SOUND IN All AUDITORIUMS 
Apt Pupil  R  
2•25. 4:50. 7•20, 10•00  
Blade  R  
2•15, 2AO, 5:20, 8:00, 10•35  
Bride of Chucky  R  
2•15, 2•30. 5•00, 7:25, 9•50  
Haloween H20  R  
4:40, 7:05, 9•30  
Holy Man  PG  
1•50. 4•25. 7•00. 9:35  
Pleasantville  PG13  
2•00, 4A5, 7AO. 10:20  
Practical Magic  PG13  
2:00, 3:00, 4•30. 5•30, 7•10.  
7:55, 9AO, 10:25  
Ronin  R  
1•55, 4AO. 7•30. 10•10  
Saving Private Ryan  R  
2:10, 3:15. 5:35. 7:45, 9•15  
The Might  PG13  
2•20, 455, 7:35. 10•05  
What Dreams May Come  PG13  
2•05. 2:50, 4•35, 5:25. 7•15.  

755, 9•55. 10•30 
IODAYS Tl/1.13 ONlY FOUR DAY ADVANCE TICK!f S4t£S HANDIW A(CmiSl£ • NO PASSES • NO S~P£RS4VEAS 
F&9am-8pm 
~:8am·6pm 
Sun: lOam-4pm 
Welcome Parents! 
After the game, nop by 


Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
• SWEDEN 
Hallo\Veen dance turns deadly after fire breaks out 
At least 60 dead, 190 injured in discotheque fire 
Associated Press 
STOCKIIOLM 

Fire raced through an upstairs discotheque jammed with hundreds of teen-agers attending a Ilallowo(m dance in the southwestern city of Goteborg early Friday, killing at least (,() pnople. 
About IIJO were injured ­
many seriously -in the fire, which broke out about mid­night in local Macedonian Association building. 
The immigrant group had organized a disco dance for young people, mostly between tho agfls of 13 and 18, to cele­brate Halloween, officials said. The dance was held on the building's second floor. 
"We are still searching the building ... but so far we have l'oun 60 dead," Goteborg police oflieial Jan Edmundson said on Swedish national radio. "What we know is that there was an explosion." 
The cause of the tire was not immodiately known. But local rescue service leader Lennart Olin said there were signs that the fire was set, the Swedish news agency TT reported. 
"The fact that it spread so fast indicates that it was not a normal tire," he said. Olin said he believed this was the worst tire disaster ever in Sweden. 
"It reminded me of the gas chambers at Auschwitz," Olin said, describing the sight that rescuers first saw when they entered the building. 
TT also reported that 190 people were taken to hospitals with injuries from the lire, and at least seven of them were in serious condition. 

The building had been inspected by the rescue service in April 1997 and "fullilled all possible demands as far as emergency exits and the possi­bility for fast evacuation," Olin said. 
Jamal Fawz, 15, told TT that he was out on the dance floor when the blaze started. 
"It looked like it started in the ceiling, and lamps and loud­speakers fell to the lloor," he was quoted as saying. 
'"It was chaos. Everybody 
was trying to get out and peo­ple trampled on each other on the way to the exit. ... Others kicked out the windows and jumped out," said Fawz, who estimated there were about 400 people inside. 
Ambulances were called in from several nearby communi­ties and the Goteborg rescue services also brought city buses into service to help transport the injured. 
Goteborg is Sweden's second­largest city, on the country's west coast about 300 miles southwest of Stockholm. 
Company promises 


e©INTERRACE©e 
Hebrew knowledge 
Associated Press

WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1998 
BOSTON
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CON.CERNS 
Many products and ser­vices come with guarantees. Knife sets, for instance, and
5:30PM 
those indispensable kitchen gadgets flogged on television infomercials. 
But can anybody really guarantee the ability to read a language hat's thousands of years old? 
The National Jewish Outreach Program is launch­ing a free, five-lesson Hebrew reading eourse in November. And aeeording to the catchy advertisements, "You'll be reading Hebrew by Chanukah ~ GUAI1AN­TEED!" 
NJOP anticipates teaching 20,000 Jewish adults to read Hebrew, "the language of our people!" The free, 90­minute lessons serve begin­ners and intermediates. 
They're targeting Jews who can't remember what they learned in childhood Hebrew classes; Jews who sit in a muddled daze during synagogue services; and Jews who want to strengthen their religious ties. 
This is believed to be the 
first mass-marketed Hebrew­
reading campaign of its kind. 
PLEASE CALL OMSA TO R.S.V.P. 

631-6841 


We've Moved! 

For more infonnation: WWW·HA.l!NT~P.QRG OR call (616) 657-f' ~ A ~ 
Bring t~is ad with you at any time and recieve fifty cents off regular admission (Not good wtth any other coupon or offer)(Limited to 5 admissions) (Valid for 1998 only) 
(The nonprofit is doing a pro­gram in Canada, too.) NJOP says it has taught 

Take US-31 expressway to exit 5 (Niles-Buchanan Rd). Go west 1/4 mile, then left (south) 
OPEN DATES 
SAT. & SUN., SEPT. 19th & 20th SAT. & SUN., SEPT. 26th & 27th 
FRI.  thru SlJN., OCT.  2nd-4th  
FRI.  thru SUN., OCT. 9th-llth  
FRI.  thru SUN., OCT. 16th-18th  

THUR. thru SlJN., OCT. 22nd -25th WED. thru SAT., OCT. 28th -31st 
HOURS (Michigan Time) FRI. & SAT. in October 7-11 P.M. ALL OTHER NIGHTS 7-10 P.M. 
ADMISSION: $5.00 
Second Admission Same ."'ight: $3.00 

105,000 people to read, but 
that was over 10 years and 
did not result from such a 
widespread national push. 
Although it was started by 

an Orthodox rabbi, NJOP is 
made up of Jews from all 
branches of Judaism -from 
the most liberal Heform and 
Heconstruetionist Jews to the 
most conservative Orthodox. 
They're the same folks who 

brought you "Shabbat Across 
America." Thn second annu­
al event on a Friday in Man·h 
brought 60,000 people to 
synagogues across the coun­
try to join in Sabbath ser­
vices, the organizers said. 
NJ OP, founded in 198 7, 

says these campaigns are 
designed to lure wayward 
Jews back into the fold. 
Of the estimatnd 6 million 

American .Jews, a large !'rae­
lion attend religious serviens 
no more than throe times a 
year, said Habbi Ephraim 
Buchwald, NJOP's founder 
and director. The intermar­
riage rate hovers around 50 
percent, and perhaps 80 per­
cent of North American .Jews 
cannot read the Hebrew lan­
guage, he added. 
Most Jews can identify 

Jesus' mother, but not 
Moses', he said. 
They can croon the first 
words of the Christmas tune 
"Deck the Halls," but they 
can't chant the Sabbath 
prayers. 
"While our grandparents prayed for a melting pot, what really happened in the United States is a meltdown of Jewish life," Buchwald said. 
The program is tantamount to a form of bait, said Habbi Shmuel Posner of Chabad I louse in Boston, part of the ultra-Orthodox Lubavieher movement. But that bait is just tine with him. 
Posner's synagogue is one of 1,200 locations providing free Hebrew reading lessons through the program. 
"If you give .Jews a little bit of Judaism and introduce it to them on their level, they'll want more," said Posner, whose wife will be teaching the llebrew course. 
The campaign is targeting six places where the bulk of America's Jews live: New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Philadelphia, Boston and southern Florida. (Toronto and Montreal are the prime Canadian targets.) 
The sponsol's have sunk $600,000 into advertising in newspapers, on radio sta­tions, even on the backs of Manhattan buses. 

r---------------------­
-~~~ ~ 
page 12 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS Friday, October 30, 1998 
• TURKEY 




Anti-terrorist squads free hostages from flight 
Associated Press 
ANKARA 

Anti-terrorist squads raided a hijacked Turkish Airlines plane Friday after a seven-hour standoff at Ankara's airport, shooting the hijacker to death and freeing the 38 passengers and crew. 
There were no injuries to the hostages, Transport Minister Arif Ahmet Denizolgun said. 
"Nothing happened to any of our passengers -not even a nose bleed," he said. 
The hijacking started late Thursday, when a hijacker took over an Ankara-bound flight from the southern city of Adana Switzerland, the six-member crew brought the plane down at Ankara's airport, apparently after initially misleading the hijacker into thinking the flight was stopping in neighboring Bulgaria for fuel. 
and  demanded  it  fly  to  
Lausanne, Switzerland.  
Instead  of  heading  to  

Hours of negotiation followed as security forces reportedly deployed a 40-member assault team. Ambulances and doctors were also called to the airport. 
A special police team stormed the plane while the crew divert­ed the hijacker's attention, pri­vate NTV television said. 
A freed passenger, Erhan 
T 


Friday, October 30, 1998 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
The Notre Dame community is asked 
o attend the Thursday evening performance. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 

T
his year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the Uni­versal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the Unit~d Nations General Assem­bly on December 19, 1948. Such an important docu­ment deserves to be celebrated, and that is what the local chapter of the United Nations Association of the U.S.A. and Saint Mary's College are intending to do. 
You are cordially invited to be our guest at this celebration. 
all ftuman rigftts • A choral reading of the Declaration for all • Musical performances 
• A commemorative response 
FIFTIETH 

• A reception will follow the program 
ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF 

7:30p.m. HUMAN RIGHTS Sunday, November 1st Little Theatre • Moreau Hall 
1948~1998 

Sales All Shows Before 6 p m  IF)f ;./  .l C).  
Practical Magic [1 :30] 4:00, 6:45, 9:30 Bride of Chucky  PGR  -13  

[12:15, 1:15, 2:20, 3:20]4:40, 5:40, 
7:10,8:10,9:20,10:35 

Beloved R [12:00, 1 :00 3:30] 4:30, 7:00 8:15, 
10:30 (10:30, FRI-SATONLY) 
Rush Hour R (11 :45, 2:15]4:35, 7:25, 9:40 There's Something About Mary R [11 :55, 2:35] 5:10, 7:45, 10:15 Urban Legend R [12:10, 2:40]5:20, 8:00, 10:10 Holy Man PG [11 :40, 2:1 0] 4:45, 7:20, 10:05 What Dreams May Come PG-13 [1 :20]4:1 0, 6:50, 9:45 Night at the Roxbury PG-13 [12:20, 2:50]5:15, 7:40, 9:50 B~ R [12:05, 2:45]5:30, 8:05, 10:30 Ronin R [2:00]4:55, 7:40, 10:25 AptPupil R [1 :50], 4:50,7:50, 10:20 Pleasantville PG-13 [1:10], 4:20,7:15,9:55 Vampires R [11 :50, 2:30]5:00, 7:30, 10:00 
Saint Mary's College 
FREE REFILL 
on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 

S4.00 All Shows Before 6 pm 
An1z  PG  
[2:30]5:00, 7:00, 9:00  
Vampires  R  
[2:00]4:30, 7:30, 10:00  
Something About Mary  R  
[2:15] 4:45,7:15, 9:45  
Advance Ticket Sales Available  tP'If  .l  
S4.00 All Shows Before 6 pm ,.I c;...  
Antz  PG  
[2:00]4:15, 6:45, 8:45  
~d~  R  
[2:30, 3:00]4:45, 5:30, 7:10 7:50  
9:30,10:00  
Dr. Dolittle  PG-13  
[2:45]5:00, 7:15,9:15  
Annageddon  PG-13  
[2:15]5:15, 8:15  
Simon Birch  PG  
[1 :45]4:30, 7:00, 9:40  

Now! Students and Seniors $4.oo Anytime 
Times in (brackets] denote matinees on Saturday & Sunday only 
Yatsiman, told private television It was unclear whether the ATV that the hijacker said he man acted alone; some reports was acting to protest Turkey's indicated two hijackers. crackdown on Kurdish rebels. Many believed the hijacking 
You are invited to attend A Lecture by 

Professor Remi Brague 
University of Paris At 4:30p.m. Monday, November 2, 1998 in the Jacque-s~ Maritain Center 714 Hesburgh Library on 
was timed to embarrass Turkey as it marked Thursday's 75th anniversary of its founding as a secular republic. 
Worldly Wisdom: Can Nature Still Teach Us Anything? 
Remi Brague, a former student of the Ecole Normale Superieure, was a research fellow at the CNRS (French national endowment for humanities) from 1976 to 1988. He had a Humboldt fel~ lowship for study in Cologne (Germany) in 1987~ 1988, taught philosophy at the University of Burgundy (Dijon) from 1988 to 1990, and got a position at the University Paris I in 1990. He was a visiting professor at Penn State (1979-1980) and at Boston University (1995). He pub­lished three books on Plato and Aristotle and later enlarged his field of interest to Hebrew and Arabic. At present he teaches medieval, and mainly Arabic philosophy, at the University Paris I. He is interested in a philosophical retlection on Western cultural tradition (see Europe, Ia voie romaine, 1992, 1993, 1999) and in the history of man's experience of his presence in the world (see La sagesse du monde, 1999 [forthcoming]). He is currently translating philosophical works from the Arabic and preparing a book on the theologico-political problem in medieval thought. 
Sponsored by the Jacques Maritain Center 
Software Architects, Inc. is a dynamic IT consulting firm specializing in application development using client-server, internet and mainframe technologies. We provide continual training, including FASTrac~, an intensive training program for new graduates, as well as contmual opportunities for advancement. We offer only full-time em~loyment, and our consultants receive full salary and benefits between ass1gnments. Come join the SARK team! 
,. 

SIGN UP FOR OUR CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ONFRIDAY, NOVEMBER 13TH 
• 
Visual Basic • PowerBuilder I Sybase 

• 
Visual C++ I MFC • SQL Server 

• 
Access • Oracle I lnforrnix 

• 
UNIX I C I C++ • HTML I Java 

• 
COBOL I DB2 • Active Server Pages 


Mike Penny Software Architects, Inc. 4 Westbrook Corp. Ctr., Suite 800 Westchester, IL 601 54 800-899-9847 mpenny@sark.com 
WWW.SARK.COM 
Chicago • Dallas • Minneapolis • Columbus Tampa • Denver • Cincinnati • Atlanta 
Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 13 
China jails Stanford scholar 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE. Calif. 

The U.S. government is trying to help a Stanford University scholar who was arrested dur­
ing a trip to his Chincsn homeland and has b111m imprisonnd s i 11 c () .Ian u a r y, Snerntary of S t a t n 


M ad 11 In i 11 11 Albright Albright said Thursday. 
llua l>i, 63, suffnrs from hr11ast cancer and has hnen unahl1~ to get treatnw11t since his January 5 arrest for leaking statn secrets. 
llua, a former Chinese mili­tary off'ieial, had returned to China for the first time since he left in 1989 during the Chinese crackdown on pro-democracy forces because he was assured he could do so safely, Stanford of'ficials said. 
Albright asked the American embassy in Beijing to "be very involved with this," she told business leaders in San Jose. llua had expected to become a 
U.S. eitiznn in .July. 
"J<:verything that I have seen about the case would make it dear that there is absolutely no reason for him to bn held," said Albright. 

She did not discuss whether the State Department has been involved in the case before this week. 
A former high-ranking of'ficial in China's military, Hua was charged with leaking state secrets for allegedly leaking Chinese military secrets. In recent years, he has published rnports in international jour­nals. on China's nuelear and missile programs. 
Stanford officials denied on Wednesday that he revealed any state secrets in his work. They noted that Chinese mili­tary officials had cooperated in his research. 
Hua went to China to attend family memorial services. 

Fa-iBDD-Ious Student Discounts 
Com·~BAT your heating bills-gas, ~tilities paid 
Security Deposit only $50 iiDtlliiE.S 
-· ~a·f23~~~,
~ ~.-. ,' ' 'I 
1 "ill '!J• ~ J;tj I /i W
251

Williamsburg 
Equal Housing 

[r-
UnzveRSIT)' Of NO'TRe Dame 
LITU"RfJICaL ChoiR 
Dll. Gml L. Wtdron, ot~CTOII 

Conce"Rr OF Saated Muszc 
30 OCTOBeR 1998 • 8:15PM Bas1bca OF The Saated HeaRT 
CelekMnny rbe 25rb AnnzveJCSaxy OF Tbe NO"'U Dame Chapel Cborx antJ • Tbe NO"'U Dame L1T'UR91Cal Cborx ~ 
FDA approves breast cancer drug 
"It's not a magic pill to be 

Tamoxifen is taken as you would an aspirin,~ cautioned Albain. "It's nothing you need to rush
first approved 

• out tomorrow and do. You need to understand the mmi­
ca_ncer drug 

fications." Tamoxifen, used for 25 
Associated Press 

years to btLttle existing breast cancel', began making head·WASHINGTON lines as a possible tumor pre­In a landmark decision, the venter last spring. 
government cleared the pow­A National Cancer lnstitutn
erful drug tamoxifen on 

study found high-risk womenThursday as a way for healthy who took the pills daily cut 
women at 
t h e i r 
very high 
chances ofrisk of developingbreast can­

'IT'S NOT A MAGIC PILL brHast can­
cer to cut cer by 44

TO BE TAKEN AS YOU
their odds of 
percent

getting a WOULD TAKE AN ASPIRIN ... 
Medically, tumor. The You NEED TO UNDERSTAND that's a sig­
decision 
nificant

could affect THE RAMIRCATIONS.' 
reduction.
millions of 
In rettl-lifll 
women. 
terms, some

But the 10171!1' ALBAIN 
6 . 6 0 ()

pills also can LOYOLA lfNIVERSJTY MEDlCAL 
cause life­
threatening 
side effects, 
so the Food and Drug 
Administration demanded 
that doctors carefully consider 
which women really need the 
drug -and urged anyone 
considering it to get all the 
facts first. 
"For the right patient ... this represents a very good option," said FDA Acting Commissioner Michael Friedman, a cancer specialist. "But it is not universally bene· licial and shouldn't be mis­used. The key here is to be an informed consumer." 

The FDA's action makes tamoxifen the first medicine to win formal government approval as a way to reduce the risk of cancer. 
"That makes it a monu­mental decision," said Dr. Kathy Albain of Loyola University Medical School, an independent FDA adviser. 
But it also will require sophisticated decision-making by consumers, as healthy women weigh the pros and cons of taking a side effect­prone drug every day for up to five years to ward off a fright­ening disease they may, or may not, ever get. 

Arneriean 
SwooL women who 
took tamox­
ifen for at 

least 3 1/2 veal'S had 69 fewer 
breast tuniors than oecurred 
in another 6,000 womfm who 
took a dummy pill. 
Tamoxiftm can cause seri­

ous side effects: It doubled 
women's risk of uttlrine can­
cer, tripled tho risk of poten­
tially fatal blood clots and 
increased chances of dfwelop­
ing cataracts in tho AYilS. 
Despite much hype, thew's no proof tamoxif'en truly pre­vents broast canc1lr -it may just delay an inevitable tumor, the FDA cautioned. Also, it helped fight just one specific type of tumor. 
"Women need to under­stand just because you take tamoxit'on, you could still get breast cancer," Albain said. 
So just who should take it? 

That's a tough question even for doctors, said Dr. Allen Lichter of the American Society for Clinieal Oncology, which is preparing guides to help physicians decide which women have the highest can­cer risk. Plus, the do<~tors who know most about tamoxifen and cancer risk are oncolo­gists, while healthy women go to general practitioners. 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

•Used 
books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•2.5,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 





VIEWPOINT 
page 14 

THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWs EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................Brerc Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRAT!j,R .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EOITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
The Obse!Ver is rhe independent m:wspaper published by rhe srudems of rhe University ofNotre Dame du Lac and 
Saint Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of the adminisnation of either institution. The news is 
reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the 
Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and 
columns presenr rhe views of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all 
members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to aH readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
through leners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
'Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Shepard Murder Does Not Justify Hasty Action 
Although the accused murderers of Matthew Shepard in Laramie had a rob­bery motive, his homosexuality was a contributing factor. We ought to note four points: 

Charles Rice 
First, the Shepard case is an example ofdepersonalization. When Matthew Shepard was targeted with violence because he was a homosexual, he was treated as a nonperson. However, the law is an educator in its decree that the most innocent human beings are nonpersons subject even to death at the discretion of others. As Mother Teresa said at the 1994 National Prayer Breakfast, "if we accept that a mother can kill even her own child, how can we tell other people not to kill one another?" In a "culture of death" innocent life is cheap and murder, whether legal or illegal, becomes a casual means for the venting of hostility or the satisfaction of utilitarian ends. 
Second, the abhorrent character of the Shepard murder is no excuse for the death penalty. That penalty is not an absolute necessity in this case because it is not "the only possible way of defending human lives against the unjust aggres­sor." This is so because "nonlethal means," such as life without parole, "are sufficient to ... protect people's safety from the aggressor ... without definitely taking away from him the possibility of redeeming himself." Catechism, no. 2267. God put a mark on Cain, not to make him a target for vengeance but to protect his life. "God did not desire that an act of homicide be punished by ... another act of homicide." Evangelium Vitae, no. 9. 
Third, the Shepard murder does not justify the expansion of"hate-crime" laws. "We should not use Matt to further an agenda," his father told the Wyoming Governor. "Don't rush into just passing all kinds of hate-crime laws. Be very careful of any changes and be sure you're not taking away rights of others in the process to race to this." 
In 41 states, hate-crime laws provide increased penalties for crimes motivated by such factors as race, religion or ethnic­ity. 11 states explicitly include sexual ori­entation. Those laws have no direct impact on crimes already subject to the maximum possible penalty, such as the Shepard murder or the racial murder in Texas last June of James Byrd, Jr., who was torn apart when he was dragged behind a pick-up truck. 
The Supreme Court has upheld hate­crime laws. As the Court said, "motive plays the same role" in such laws "as it does under federal and state antidiscrimi­nation laws." And judges, especially in state courts, have latitude to consider motive in sentencing. On the other hand, those laws can chill speech because of the fear that politically incorrect statements might be evidence of "hateful" motivation if one is later accused of any crime that is covered by the statute. In a New York Times column, Frank Rich came close to blaming the Family Research Council for Matthew Shepard's murder. Why? Because the FRC advanced the biblical position that· the homosexual inclination, while not sinful, is a disorder. And the FRC had the nerve to present the evi­dence that some homosexuals can tran­scend the orientation. Rich accused the FRC of "stirring up the fear that produces hate," with the result that "emboldened thugs take over." If you care about free­dom of speech, that ought to bother you. 
The hate-crime concept is dubious. Is 
not every deliberate crime of violence a 
"hate-crime"? If we focus so intently on a 
discriminatory motive, do we not run the 
risk of minimizing the seriousness of the 
underlying crime? "What if it could be demonstrated," wrote columnist Stephen Chapman, "that Mr. Shepard's killers hadn't known he was gay? Would that make what they did to him any more excusable?" 
The inclusion of sexual orientation in hate-crime laws is especially dubious. To target someone because of his homqsexu­.ality is no less vicious than to do so because of race or religion. However, unlike race and religion, homosexual ori­entation is a disorder. As the 1992 "back­ground resource" document sent by the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith to the American bishops said, "'Sexual orientation' [is] not ... comparable to race, ethnic background, etc. in respect to non­discrimination. Unlike these, homosexual orie?,tation is an objective moral disor­der. 
Should the law impose enhanced penal­ties for crimes purposefully committed against anyone with an inclination to a morally disordered act, e.g., excessive drinking, shoplifting, etc.? Or only with respect to disorders favored by the agen­da of political correctness? The rush to expand hate-crime laws has more to do with enforcing politically correct ideas than with achieving justice. 
Fourth. the Shepard murder provides no reason to validate the homosexual lifestyle. Gay activists will use the Shepard murder to argue ultimately in favor of requiring even private persons to validate homosexual activity as a legiti­mate alternative lifestyle. 
As the 1986 Vatican Letter On the Pastoral Care of Homosexual Persons said, "increasing numbers of people today ... are bringing ... pressure to bear on the Church to accept the homosexual condi­tion as though it were not disordered and to condone homosexual activity ... [T]he proper reaction to crimes ... against homosexual persons should not be to claim that the homosexual condition is not disordered. When such a claim is made and when homosexual activity is ... condoned or when ... legislation is intro­duced to protect behavior to which no one has any conceivable right, neither the Church nor society at large should be sur­prised when other distorted-notions and practices gain ground, and irrational and violent reactions increase." 
When the European Parliament in 1994 approved homosexual marriage and the adoption of children by homosexual cou­ples, John Paul II said "[T]he attempt has been made to tell the inhabitants of this continent that moral evil, deviation, a kind of slavery, is the way to liberation, thus distorting the true meaning of the family. The relationship of two men or two women cannot constitute a true fami­ly; still less can one grant such a union the right to adopt children who lack a family. These children suffer great dan­ger, grave harm, because in these "sub­stitute families" they do not have a father and mother, but two fathers or two moth­ers. This is dangerous." 
The Shepard murder should not be used to legitimize activity contrary to nature and the divine law. Instead, that murder calls us to reaffirm the dignity of every person and the inviolability of every innocent human life. A first step would be for each of us to reflect on the linal text of the Catechism of the Catholic Church: "The number of men and .women who have deep-seated homosexual tendencies is not negligible. This inclination, which is objectively disordered, constitutes for most of them a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimi­nation in their regard should be avoided. These persons are called to fulfill God's will in their lives and, if they are Christians, to unite to the sacrifice of the Lord's Cross the difficulties they may encounter from their condition." No. 2358. 
Prof. Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'How much fame, 
money, and power does a woman have to achieve on her own before 
you can punch her in the face?' -P.J. O'Rourke, 
Modern Manners, 1983 





VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 30, 1998 ------------------
--------------------------------------------page 15 
• WASHINGTON UNMASKED fROM WITHIN 
Beware of Next Tuesday's Political Halloween 
llallownnn traditionally features mischievous masked maraudnrs whose idnntity is eonc:ealnd until their tricks or trnats havn bonn dispnnsnd. Next Tunsday, election day, is tl11• llallownnn of' thn Hopublican Party. Hegardless of the campaign promises. many of' the deelarod Hepublican win­
=========~~~~~~~ ners will don
masks quite dif­ferent from their recent 
Gary 
campaign faces. Every Jth'ali­
fied American should vote on 

Caruso 
----========-----Tuesday to pre­
-vent all elected oflirials from hiding lwhind the masks of absurd reasoning and slogans. Unfortunately, only a small percentage will again dnr.idn the Congressional maknup of the next two ynars. Low turnouts will mostly favor Hepublican candi­datt~s becausn thn hard-com radicals who hide behind tlwir "born-again" religious masks will march mindlessly to tlw polls to vote thPir pn~judices. 
Tlw late Smmtor Barry Goldwater -masked behind the lab!'I of conservative, and Senator Tnd Knnnedy-the postPr boy for liberal masks, agrned on more issues than tlws1~ who today call themsnlves liberal or eonservative. c;oldwater bdieved that government should stay out of the pnrsonal livns of the pnopln, espe­cially when trying to rostriet abortions or dnny basic human doconcy to gays. c;oldwatnr's pun~ consnrvatism extnnded to limiting govnrnment's role in areas nol essential to thn saf(•ty and wnlfarn of tho publie, e.g., most matlnrs otlwr than national sc1curity. 
It is ironic that tho polariz­ing combatants who adore "Nw·lc~ar" Nnwt c;ingrich's nngative political tactic of c:asting aside a civil loyal opposition role for one of sp)f-rightc~ous c:ondmnna­tion of' political opporwnts haw bastardiznd thn dnfi­nition of conservatism. Tlw intolnrant agcmda "Nc!w ConsPrvatives" pro­mot!' today inritns tho fringc1 nlmnnnts of' our soci­nty to assassinate the New York doctor who legally pnr­f(H'nwd abortions. Their hate rhetoric: warps young minds to think that they have a right to brutally beat and c:rueify the Gay Wyoming studcmt on a wooden fenc·.n. 
Tlw Bepublican Party has evolved as thn party of conservatism. I lowever, if Hepuhlicans strive to be the "big tent, inclu­
sive party" thny called themselvns during Bob Dole's nominating convention, eonsnrvatives today had bc~tter take a page out of Bill Clinton's "Now l>mnor.rat" book and redefine their party toward the mid­dlc1 of tlw political spectrum. They must strip ofT the masks of their religious znalots and exorcise themselves of intol­eraJH'.e, fear and hatrnd. Until they end their polarization against minority and working people, they will be a minor­ity party for most of the next millennium. 
Pat Hobnrtson's "700 Club" has for yoars produced so­c:allc~d "nnws" segnwnts that appear to be a news broad­cast. but are in fact political brainwashing techniques. For nxampln, during the Hoagan Administration, Hobertson supportc~d the outer spaeo "Star Wars" missile technology and aiwd his "news" supporting Beagan policies. It was nwrdy his emlrt to espouse his political agenda which supportnd Hepubliean poliey-unless I missed the section of the Bible concerning missile tedmology-maybe John Hl: I(J! 
Last week .Jerry Falwell, looking a bit overweight and porky, defended Indepcmdent Counsel Kenneth Starr by bnginning his remarks with, "I le seems to be a good Christian man..." Are we to infer that if Starr was Jewish, htlwnll would have to eondemn him? Or ean we conclude that Falwell has judged Bill Clinton'? Let's see, Clinton grnw up Baptist, attended Catholic school and attends a Methodist Chureh almost weekly. Is Clinton more of a hea­thnn than Honald Heagan who hardly attended any church during his night-year presidency but was given George (;ipp's monogram from Notre Dame? The Gipp's mono­gram can lead to sainthood. 
For any student of history, the He publican Party was succnssf'ul in hiding behind the mask of patriotism and law enforeement during the 1980's. They defined the Heagan years as a time when only Hepublieans were true Americans, wrapped in the U.S. flag. I personally resented being labnled un-American since I was a Democrat. My father, the Democrat Mayor of our eity, who fought in Europe and Africa in World War II, more vehemently resented "those Hepublican S.O.B.s!" 
Presently I resent the self-righteous, condescending way the "born-again" Protestant televangelists hide behind their mask of religion to eondemn anyone (espeeially other religions liko Catholieism) who does not agree with how they bolieve Amerieans should live their lives. They want the government off their business baeks, but they want the government to pry into private lives and legislate their view of morality. For example, they support prayer in school (their type of prayer without regard to other groups' rights) until somebody suggests inducting other lifestyles by saying, "Fine, we will rotate religious prayer, and the first month your ehildren must recite Jewish prayers." 
The Republican Party is slowly disintegrating from with­in. They should have lost their majority in the House of Hepresentatives in 1996 with the Clinton win over Dole. Charges of Democratic eampaign contribution irregulari­ties that surfaeed two weeks before the election changed generie Congressional polling results from pro-Demoerat to pro-Hepubliean during the home stretch of the eam­
paign. The Ameriean public wanted the checks 
and balances of a Congress and Presidency divided between both parties despite Hepublican extremists like Pat 
Buehanan. As next week's eleetion nears, the two parties are about even in generie polling which suggests that the Ameriean public is comfortable and does not want to upset the status quo· at this time. 
Most predietions point to the Hepublicans gain­ing two seats in the 
Senate and about eight in the House of Representatives. While that boosts them this year, it pales in com­parison to historical trends showing that in a President's sixth 
year, his party usually sufl'ers twenty or more losses in Congress. 
Republiean dedines loom over the horizon sinee governing is the art of eompromise and middle ground, neither eoneept 
aceeptable to "Nudear Newt" or the religious right's fanaties. A classic example of the <o--Hepubliean Party's nasty tactics 
~ using fear and negativity was the reeent 
-·· 

migrant bashing by Governor Pete 
Wilson of California during his reeleetion eam­paigu. A personal friend of mine will sutTer the retribution when Californians rejeet Notre Dame graduate, former Congressman and current Hepublican Attorney General Dan Lungren next Tuesday in his bid to succeed Wilson as governor. Like it or not, Lungren is stuck behind the mask of today's definition of conservatism. Unfortunately for him, the current definition stands in stark eontrast to the Hepublican Party of Abraham Lineoln's day which stood for freedom and equality. 
Democrats this year will utter the sports phrase, "This is a rebuilding year." Two years from next Tuesday, AI Gore will be president-elect and the House of Hepresentatives will onee again be in Demoeratie eontrol. The political masks of the self-destructive Republiean Party may not be stripped away by then, but they eertainly will be transpar­ent enough for the Ameriean public to reject bigotry, intol­eranee and fear. 
It all begins next Tuesday during this year's political Halloween when the Republicans will triek you. However, the Demoerats will treat you in 2000. Good things some­times come slowly. But when they do, they are worth the wait. Clip and save this article, for the politieal change at the Millennium will be one such ehange well worth the wait. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the U.S. House ofRepresentatives for eighteen years and is a con­sultant in Washington, D.C. His column appears every other Friday and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
True Spirit of 
Date Auction 
Overlooked 
fn response to the Oct. 8 Inside Column, 
"Compromising Pride," written by Shannon Hyan 
and Colleen McCarthy, The S<tint Mary's Senior 
Class board would like to express our apologies to 
those who were offended by the date auetion held 
on Oct. 7. 
It was, of course, not tho Board's intention to insult anyone, and the Board does recognize the authors' objeetion to the concept of date auctions in general. However, ins toad of the the authors main­taining the focus on how they oppose date auctions in any case, the Senior Board's particular function wa....;; the subject of attack. Ttw thirty women that make up the Board would have never sponsored an event had we honestly believed it eould damage the values all women strive toward. Wo regret that the core of Ms. Ryan and Ms. MeCarthy's message, working for the solidarity of women at Saint Mary's, was negated in the way they presented our dass, as well as the women in attendance. Although th11 col­umn was based on opinion, the Board feels it was unfortunate that actual facts about the event wore not included. The entire point behind the Dato Auction was to raise money for our class to cover events held throughout the year that our Board of Governance allotment does not. Not once in the arti­cle does the word "fundraiser" appear. Instead, tho representation was unfair, making us look like sub­missive, classless women throwing our money away in order to ~eat pizza with Notrll Dame athletes." 
Instead of reinforcing the positive message Ms. Ryan and Ms. McCarthy had intended, the column served to cha...;;tise the g•·oup they an1 a part of and perpetuate the stereotypes that women as a whole face, not just ones who go to Saint Mary's. Because this was the only presentation of the ovent, the Senior Class Board would like to present a more positive side of the night. 
For tho past three years, the class of 1999 has successfully held date auetions as t'undraisers. We have gained a good reputation among the Student Activities oflice because we have pulled them olf responsibly and profitHd greatly. This yoar, the Notre Dame Crew team initiated contaet with our Board, knowing of our past suceess. and asked to co-sponsor this auetion. Tho Board then worked to solicit area businesses to put togntlwr pre-packaged dates, asked guys to participate in the event, and put a tremendous effort into publicity. ThH night of the event, Le Mans lobby was packed with worll(m from both Saint Mary's and Notre Dame, as well as men there to support their friends. It is not often that our schools soe such an impressiV(~ turnout at. a non-alcoholic, jointly sponsored event held on Saint Mary's campus. It is true that gender relations are strained within our community, but instond of serv­ing to harm them, thll auction provided an environ­ment to better them. Members of both sexes sur­rounded one another laughing and talking, while meeting people they would not have in different cir­cumstances. Both the pru·ticipants and those who attended expressed how much fun they had and thanked the Board for sponsoring it. Although some women bid on men for single dates, the majority of the profits were a result of women buying their guy friends or groups of women bidding on groups of men for double or triple dates. The high dollar bets reported do not seem so ridiculous when divided by five, The Senior Board raised a great tUtlotmt of money for our class and the Crow tHu.m in exchange for the little effort we had to put into the hour and· a halfit took to hold the event. 
The Senior Board wishes for all of the events we sponsor thi'l year to be done in good spirit and have a great turnout. Our "Belles Barbecue," held at the Saint Mary's soccer game on Sept. 19. wn.,.,just one of the positive things the Board has done to increase turnout at athletic events, but this was not reeog­nized, The Board repres~mts the viewpoint that when things like date auctions are hold, they must be taken for what they are meant to be: light-heart­ed, fun and social. The auetlon was not held to cause a stir or create an issuo to debate, it wa...'l held forfun. · 
Madeline Carpinelli Betsy Gemmer Becky Deitle Whitney Conrad The Senior Class Executive Board Megan Mahoney Fuodmlsing Ch~ir Ocroher 27, 1998 

ABOUT ·THE UNIVERSITY Founded:J.84$ LD&ation: Wac:o, tCe'"'s Campus site: 432 a~:res VncfereradiUite enrollment: 10,591 GracfJUJte enrollment: 1.,21.1· President: Robert B. Sloan, Jr. Athleti& Director: ~om Stanton Ni&J(name: Bears Colors: Green and Gold Stadium: Floyd Casey Stadium Head Coaeh: Dave Roberts Con(eren&~BieXII  
The Baylor "Bear Claw" and song During the playing of the Baylor school song, students holq up their hands and curve all five fingers slightly· inward to form a bear claw. This tradition began in 1960 · after the Baylor yell leaders introduced it to students and faculty. The Baylor ('Bear Claw" is also used during the '(Sic 'Em Bears" yell. The Baylor school song, "That Good Old Baylor Line," has served as the fight song since the 1900s, but the words sung today were not writ~en untill93l. EnidE.astland Markham, a 1923 Baylor graduate wrote the words.  ··  


FAMOUS BAYLOR ALUMNI 

· Ann Richa~ds, Fonner Gm,ernor of 
Texas 

Ivfark \Vhite. 
Fonner Gtwernor of ·Texas· "·. 

David Sibley, 
State Senator 

Michael Johnson, Olympic gold medalis.t 


Drayton McLane, Chainnan, The McLane (}roup and Houston Astro BtJ.seball Club 

O THE

iday, October 30, 1998 ---------------­
BSERVER 


....--------------------, A Bear of Tradition: 

The Mascot Story 
Tht" orlgilt.."t of the fwur mc.u('f.lt tWtt" btK·k to &he 
l920s *"tfum &ylor Tt't:ti'l•td it.~ first li'\'t' bt-ar /wm troops uf thte l 07th. Engineers. em n•fcrntry unit st"tion~d in Waco, T~.n~.~. Tc.!'d., th~ ~·s nume, mu.de its fine ap~c:w«n..:r ac che &cylm·.'l'exa..~ A&M ftMJtbc.tU gam~., cmd when the h"tloops left dt.e Wat.."' t&rt'!a:,. th~ b~ur u•cu lf:{C in tfw hcmd u( Cht" &rylo'f athletic c.iepc.trt· numr NU<W, 70 y~u:rs l.utn. th~ ~df Ttmai:ru a t..'ntc.·inl ~>art of th~ 'mWersity and 

tC$ athletic c.cams. The bt-st known Btrylor nw.<~c:ot was J~ Collcgt>,. u:hn ww p..Tchased /Yuat• a too by ftd:';lcw "'w.fenc &U &yd. &ryd af{nttd th«! ~aT as thtt sdtt.Mll rnc:u,·ut in achan,ri! fw fr~ttt tr.titim,. P~J.t Nlf/f~ fkr:yloT)s P..esidomt f.ll th.tt trme ~eed tu che .:kul. 'T~ · ""t.U'l"n&l het:rr mmco~ artt frmn Bt::t.tT Cmmtry VSA. a driv«-·ih.:ru"Kgh. witdlif~ pmlr. mSo.tth Dukotu. These b.!-c.ru u.r~ rotu.aeu e.w., awu :)1«-W$. Th.t'lkur nkkn.t.mstt cc.bftt' tu · 1-r~t mINceMM 1914, W~l tft.t."'l•jnll:'s.id.:nt Sutnu1:!l Pahtk:T BTooks dt:t:id~ th.! stefloo.l l'lll!..td.td a md.11dJJW. Th..: -~.,. ... ~ut '*' dthn SW.Uit'3tlU.ns~ n•~k ~. lM ··~s.~ "dllCft~S,"" "'jror,. cmd "~uts.• ,. 
BAYLOR FOOTBALL: PAST AND PRESENT 
'98 SCHEDULE 
Sept. 12 at Oregon State 
Sept. 19 NORTH CAROLINA STATE 
Sept. 26 at Colorado 
Oct.3 at Texas Tech 
Oct.. 10 KANSAS 
Oct.17 TEXASA&M 
Oct.24 at Texas 
Oct. 31 at Notre Dame 
Nov. 7 KANSAS STATE 
Nov.14 OKLAHOMA 
Nov. 21 at Oklahoma State 
'97 SEASON IN REVIEW (2-9) 
MIAMI  14-45  L  
at Fresno State  37-35  w  
at Michigan  3-38  L  
TEXAS TECH  14-35  L  
NEBRASKA  21-49  L  
at Oklahoma  23-24  L  
at Iowa State  17-24  L  
TEXAS  23-21  w  
atTe:xas A &M  1o-38  L  
at llissouri  24-42  L  
OKLAHOMA ST.  14-24  L  

-
-
... 
' 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 30, 1998 

Fire on Ice: Yesterday's National Hockey League action 
-
Associated Press 
Senators 3 Flyers 1 
Andreas .Johansson scored twice and Hadek Bonk added a goal in an injury-delayed first period as the Ottawa Senators beat the Philadelphia Flyers 3­1 on Thursday night. 
The final 4:47 of the first period was played after the first intermission because of a injury to Ottawa's Andreas Dackell. The right wing sus­tained a concussion and facial cuts requiring 15 stitches in a collision with Philadelphia captain Eric Lindros. 
Dackell, cut by his own visor, was on the ice for about 12 minutes before being taken to the dressing room on a stretcher. Lindros, who scored a shorthanded goal in the third period, was not penal­ized on the play. 
Damian Rhodes stopped 28 shots to help Ottawa end a 12­game losing streak against Philadelphia dating to April 26, 1995. The Senators also ended a three-game losing streak to improve to 4-3. 
Bonk opened the scoring with 3:52 left in the first peri­od. Johansson made it 2-0 with 1:27 left and added his fourth goal of the season on a power play with 12 seconds to go. Lindros scored his seventh goal of the season with 9:21 remaining in the third period. 
Blues 3 Red Wings 1 
Geoff Courtnall scored on a 
penalty shot midway through 
the third period as the St. 
Louis Blues beat the Detroit 
Red Wings 3-1 on Thursday 
night. 
Courtnall broke free of the 
Detroit defense after a feed 
from Scott Young and was 
bearing down on goalie Chris 
Osgood when Aaron Ward 
began hooking him to throw 
him off. Courtnall nearly scored anyway with a shot that banged off the right goal post. 
On the penalty shot, Courtnall stuck to the basics, scoring his second goal on a wrist shot that sailed over Osgood's left shoulder at 
10:43. He's 2-for-4 for his career on hockey's most excit­ing play and also scored the Blues' last penalty shot, Dec. 13, 1996, when he beat Chicago's Jeff Hackett. 
The Blues were unsuccessful on their lone penalty shot last season as Darren Turcotte came up empty against Calgary on March 22. 
Courtnall, who signed a three-year deal with the Blues this summer, had been off to a slow start with a goal and an assist in six games. 
The Red Wings have elimi­nated the Blues in the playoffs the last three seasons and beat them three times in the Kiel Center last May. This was their first time in St. Louis since finishing off the Blues in six games May 19 with a 6-1 victory, but aside from Courtnall's shot, the game had little electricity with only 26 penalty minutes combined. 
Scott Pellerin and AI 
Macinnis also scored for the 
Blues. Doug Brown got his 
fourth goal for Detroit, playing 
on consecutive nights. The Red 
Wings won 7-2 at Florida on 
Wednesday night. 
Pellerin put the Blues ahead at 10:01 of the first period when he slid a quick shot past Osgood. The Blues missed a chance to go two goals ahead only 37 seconds lat~r when Pavol Demitra batted in a rebound with a high stick, then gave the Red Wings a two-man advantage to tie it. 
Brown scored 19 seconds after Pellerin was sent off for a double-minor for roughing, beating a sprawling Grant 

Fuhr at 12:46. Macinnis scored his fifth goal into an empty net with 
14.7 seconds to go while the Blues had a two-man advan­tage.. 
Bruins 1 Canadians 1 
The Boston Bruins had plen­ty of power-play chances against Montreal for the sec­ond straight game, but man­aged only a 1-1 tie Thursday night after routing the Canadiens 9-2 the previous night. 
The Bruins had nine power plays each night, but convert­ed only once Thursday when Steve Heinze gave them a 1-0 lead at 15:32 of the first peri­od. On Wednesday, they were 5-for-9 when they had a man advantage. 
Montreal tied it on Brian Savage's power-play goal at 
19:19 of the second period as Boston, playing at home for the first time in 17 days, stayed unbeaten there at 1-0­
2. 

On Wednesday, the Bruins broke a three-game losing streak and ended their road trip at 3-4 in a game that ended with bad feelings on both sides that spilled over into Thursday's game. 
Much of that stemmed from 
Montreal defenseman Dave 
Manson's elbow that drove 
P.J. Axelsson's head into the boards. During Manson's five­minute penalty, the Bruins scored three goals to take a 6­0 lead. 
Manson was suspended for three games starting T~}ursday .. and fined $1,000. ·· 
Boston outshot Montreal 3-1 in overtime, but neither team had a solid scoring chance. The Bruins nearly won late in the third period, but Jocelyn Thibault made a glove save of Grant Ledyard's shot from five feet with 6.5 seconds left. 
Heinze's third goal of the season and 100th of his career came from the left circle after he took a pass from Ted Donato, standing behind the goal line. 
Savage got his second goal of the season after goalie Byron Dafoe dropped his stick on a previous save. Vincent Damphousse then passed the puck from the top of the right circle to Mark Recchi at the right corner of the goal. lie passed across the slot to Savage, who scored as Dafoe tried to stop the puck with his glove. 
Devils 2 Islanders 1 
Bobby Holik and Dave Andreychuk scored first-peri­od goals and Martin Brodeur made 22 saves as the New Jersey Devils held off the New York Islanders 2-1 on Thursday night. 
New Jersey, coming off a 4-0 home loss to Los Angeles on Wednesday night, won for the third time in four games. Jason Dawe scored for the Islanders, who had their two­game winning streak snapped. 
Holik opened the scoring at 
3:59 of the first period, beat­ing goalie Tommy Salo with a slap shot. Andreychuk made it 2-0 at 11:15, with the puck deflecting in off his chest after Holik's pass bounced off Islanders defenseman Rich Pilon's stick. 
Dawe scored on a wrist shot with 59.2 seconds left in the second period. The teams left the ice at that point after fans litter_cd t.h.e ice with souven.ir foam rubber pucks. 
Salo made 18 saves for the Islanders. 
Avalanche 4 Sharks 2 
Joe Sakic broke a tie midway through the third period with his fourth shorthanded goal in five games as the Colorado Avalanche beat the winless San Jose Sharks 4-2 on Thursday night. 
Sakic, who tied it at 2 with 
3:02 remaining in the second period, beat Mike Vernon with a low wrist shot at 7:03 of the third period. Peter Forsberg set up the goal after stealing the puck in the neutral zone. 
Rene Corbet opened the scoring on a power play at 
12:54 of the first period, his first goal since April 2. Stephane Yelle added a goal with 6:35 left in the third peri­od for the Avalanche. 
Craig Billington, making his second start of the season in place of Patrick Roy, made 21 saves. 
Dave Lowry and Andrei Zyuzin scored for San Jose (0­6-2). The Sharks are off to their worst start since going 0­7-4 in 1995-96. 
San Jose goalie Mike Vernon, 0-5-1 this season and 14-7-1 lifetime against the Avalanche, made 26 saves. 
The Sharks played most of the game without Bernie Nicholls, who left at 4:14 of the first period because of a deep cut over his right eye. 
LATEST NHL RESULTS 
Senators 3 Flyers 1 
Avalanche 4 Sharks 2 
Bruins 1 Canadians 1 
Blues 3 Red wings 1 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The
Classifieds charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the righr ro edir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Cruise•Fiorida·south Padre  Beautiful brass bed,queen size,with  Need 2 Baylor GAs.  FOR SALE: 2 Baylor GA's  
NOTICES  Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New,never used,still in plas- Please call212-636-7472.  Call631·7048  
THE COPY SHOP  staff jobs.Lowest price Guaranteed.Call now for details!  302 N. Walsh 2br/2bath. Corner of  tic.$225 219-862-2082  NEED LSU TIX  PERSONAL  
LaFortune Student Center  www.classtravel.com  LaSalle and Walsh. Screened in  Call Matt287-5179  
- We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  800/838-6411  porch w/deck. Great location 1 mi. South of ND. Plenty of room for  TICKETS  Baylor GA 4sale x1 067  Retired nurse will babysit. $3/hr. Own car, refs.  
Fri: 7:30am -7:00 pm  FREE SPRING BREAK '99  three. $900mo. Ask for Patti  289-0332.  
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm  With COLLEGE TOURS  2872799.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  4 Baylor GAs for Sale.  
Sun: Noon -Midnight  Organize 20 travelers,earn 2 FREE  GAMES.272-6306  Call Jeff @ x3592  I found a caterpillar in my NDH let- 
When you need copies.  trips.Call FREE (800}395-4896  tuce  
we're open!  TICKETMART Inc  2 Baylortix for sale. 273-1510  Kathy K  
HOUSES FOR RENT  BUY-SELL-TRADE  Leave offer.  
Early Spring Break  CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED  DOMUS P,ROPERTIES  Notre Dame Football Tickets  •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY,  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  EARN UP TO $11.00  258-1111  Baylor Tix For Sale  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  Part-time work around class.  614 S. ST JOE; 9 BED/4 BATH  No student tickets please  Call Shannon 4-3945  STUDENTS .., Original student  
Awesome  No telemarketing. Car needed  518 S. ST JOE; 8 BED/2 BATH  group will hold SUPPORT meeting  
Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  Scholarships available.  532, 534 S. CARROLL; 7 BED  2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­ tomorrow 10/29. Confidentiality  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed.  1016 S. BEND AVE; 7 BED  DO YOU Have Friends coming in  6746 daze or 672-7284 eves.  respected as always. Call info line  
Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties  282-2357.  820 S. BEND AVE; 5 BED  for Baylor that you want to sit with?  for details 236-9661.  
$339!Panama City Room With  630 ST. PETER; 5 BED  I have 4 Baylor GA's in the student  2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by  
Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  606 ST. PETER; 5 BED 610 ST. PETER; 5 BED  section. Call me x2276.  11/6.Call Scott800-755-2323 x4709 lv msg  ..................................  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  S.Padre.14 Free Meals + 34 hrs.  1718 E. WASHINGTON;2 BED  FOR SALE  Mary Beth Ellis:  
1-800-678-6386  Free Parties.America's best prices & packages.Campus sales reps  602 ND AVE; 5 BED 1082 WOODWARD; 2 BED  FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412  THREE BAYLOR GA TIX FOR SALE.Mark 404/875-1171.  DON'T MESS WITH TEXAS!!! ..................................  
OUR B&B has rooms for Baylor and  wanted Earn free trips + cash  ADDITIONAL HOMES AVAILABLE;  
LSU due to last minute cancellation.  1.800.SURFS.UP  ADDRESSES GIVEN UPON  WANTED  Always buying and selling N D  mark-long time, no classified.  
1.5 mls from ND/SMC. Great rates,  www.studentexpress.com  REQUEST  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  football tickets. 289-8048  
super place for parents! Call 277­ 271-1526  all i have to say is-where's our  
2388 ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT I  THESE HOMES ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE 1999-2000 SCHOOL YEAR  ND Ftbl.tix BUY-SELL 674-7645  FOR SALE-BAYLOR & LSU GA'S. ALSO TRADE MY 4 BAYLOR FOR YOUR 2 BOSTON COL.  luggage? who has decongestant?  
·········Losr··......  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  CALL KRAMER@ 674-2571; 233­4509;0R CELL 276-7020  ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  234-3204.  what made spending time with me suddenly so appealing?  
3 COM PALM Ill electronic  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  SELLING 4 BAYLOR TIX  
organizer  674-7645  CALL MATT 4-4506  no questions. right?  
Lost on Friday October 9, at aprox.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  
7:00pm If found please call Carl  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  FOR SALE  ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  2 stud tix avail for Baylor (face} 4­2795  noonan-happy 22nd birthday (one day late}  
@273-2530 (no ?'s asked}  
••••••••REWARD••••••  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  ND FOOTBALL TIX  i miss my keough boys. alas, illness  
WANTED  Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805  FOR SALE AM 232-2378  2 Baylor GAs 4 Sale Call Kim@ 4-3193  has kept me away.  
with private baths,$80­ PM 288-2726  BEST OFFER  have you missed me? i hope so.  
$115,Middlebury,30 miles from  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  
SPRING BREAK '99!  campus.  Bed box set. not available in  Need LSU tix  I Need 2 B.C. Tickets. Call Mike@  or i'll contaminate you. i have the  
Cancun•Nassau• Jamaica• Mazatlan  Toll Road,Exit #107  U.S. call pete at25HJ178.  289-2918  634-1613  plague.  
• Acapulco•Bahamas  1-800-418-9487  

Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 


Dear Alumni &Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend. 
Baylor Football Weekend October 31 and November 1, 1998 

. 
Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center 45 minutes after game 




Sunday Masses 
Basilica 8:00, 10:00 &11:45 am 
Sacred Heart Parish Crypt 6:00, 7:00, s:oo, 
9:30 & 11:00 am 
-

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 30, 1998 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
After 48 years, 
)oYflet
,.::~:w~~J~t~r:\><~·' '0&:·,, . . . . . , 
..._,:.,,u,. 
rehabilitation should heal his
O'Mally retires \nshoulder inflammation during ······ the off~season. 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 
The time has come, Peter O'Malley says, for him to simply be a fan of the Los Angeles Dodgers and nothing more. 
Mter 48 years of involvement in ownership of the team and the last 7 1/2 months as its chief operating officer, O'Malley announced Thursday he is leav­ing the organization at the end of the year. 
The former team president told employees at the Dodgers' organizational meetings in Vero Beach, Fla .. of his plans. 
"''m here until New Year's Eve," O'Malley said on a confer­ence call from Vero Beach. ''I've given it a lot of time this year. I intend to do that for the rest of the year. 
'Til probably have an office downtown after the first of the year. I'll probably help (Dodgers president) Bob (Graziano) and the management team from a greater distance. I'm really pleased that at the end of October. all of the things are in place." 
Upon completion of the sale of the Dodgers by his family to the Fox Group on March 19, the 60­year-old O'Malley said he would stay with the organization as chairman of the board for a year to help in the transition. 
So Thursday's announcement wasn't a surprise. 
"I think I realized there's a time to move on," he said. "Now is absolutely the right time. I'm extremely happy about the management team in place." 
O'Malley announced his intention to sell the team nearly two years ago -in January 1997. 
Walter O'Malley, Peter's father, purchased a majority interest in the then-Brooklyn Dodgers in 1950, and the family 
"DEFT, FUNNY AND TOUCHING. 
M, Bcct.:.,o1c ;, ,ho ...,loppins M<. Sc•isny ;, Jcductivcly dcmu1c." 
·wonckrfully cl~er, sharp-eyed and charmin!$ ~ wi and o w!WnuicoJ,ense ol lau11101.• 
The Laal Day• of 


DISCO 

CINEMA AT THE SNITE 
FRI. & SAT. 7:30 AND 9:45PM PRESENTED BY ND FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE WWW. NO. EDU/-COTHWEB 
controlled the team until the sale to Rupert Murdoch's Fox Group for about $311 million ­the most ever paid for a U.S. sports franchise. 
Peter O'Malley succeeded his father as the team's president on March 17. 1970, and held the job nearly 28 years to the day. 
Walter O'Malley, who moved the team to Los Angeles in 1958, died in 1979. 
"Baseball and the Dodgers have given myself and our fami­ly some incredibly happy times," O'Malley said. "I think those days are still ahead. 
"Yes. I understand I will not be directly affiliated with the ballclub. I'm going to be as much a fan as anyone else." 
O'Malley's disenchantment with the direction of the game as well as overall baseball lead­ership played arole in his deci­
sion to sell. 
In addition, the eco­nomics of professional sports have pretty much seen to it that family ownership is no longer feasible; corporate own­ership makes better business sense. 
O'Malley said had his father been alive, he might have sold the Dodgers sooner. 
"In my mind, there is no doubt our family did the right thing at the right time," he said. 
Under the O'Malley ownership, the Dodgers won six World Series, 13 NL championships, and finished first or second in their division 33 times in 48 years. 
However, the team hasn't won a postseason game since 1988, when it won its last World Series. 
(_' '-.....'\ . 
1 ... 

These two breakfast sandwiches are more than just a little something. Right now, they're also a great deal. Just come into Burger King• and get the delicious CROISSAN'WICH• and the tasty Biscuit sandwich for just $2. That's two great-tasting breakfast sandwiches with sizzling sausage, egg. and melted cheese fur $2. So go ahead, have both in the morning. After all, you haven't eaten all day. (Price and participation may vary. During breakfast hours only.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
ICING It just tastes better."' 
C1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Croissan'wich, Burger King and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
:298 
80JUH 

. With tbe fJ~.dtes and. his. 3th in tl:uJ niajpr. leagues. He also ranked sec~< ond in the major leagues with a A 12 batting average with runners in scoring position. 
Joyner, who had previous stints in Anaheim and Kansas City, said he didn't consider moving to any other clubs dur­ing negotiations. 
Two delicious breakfast sandwiches for just two dollars. 
(Just a little something to tide you over until lunch.) 
,..,},,.;,,,.•.., .. . .. 
oth~ 
Kevin . an Ken · er Steve Garlos· 
d that I'm 
imagine my 

years are past," 
said. "To make the amoiliH we've agreed on, I've dotl,e, a good job." . 
J(:)yiJer was bothered by a nagging shoulder injury last season but still played 131 games and stayed· off the dis­abled list He said rest and 
Jn on~ of his Jlrst personn(ll 
moves, Padres general manag­
·.. er·Kevin Towers acquired Joyner Crom·Kansas Clty for it~,fielder Bip Roberts.in a deal in,volving two minorJeague players orr De~. 21 ...1995. The next season, the Padres won the NL West pennant "That was a ve.ry joyous moment for me as general manager because I thfnk it set the table for what has hap­pened since/' Towers said. ''He's been a clubhouse loader, one of the best first basemen in the majors. and just a tremendous asset on and off the field." The Padres also announced that second baseman QuHvio Veras underwent successful surgery to repair his left shoul­der joint Thursday. He was due to start rehabilitation on Friday. 
Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Rising salaries bring Steinbrenner to tears 

As~uciatcd Press 
When last seen in public: togntlwr. Gr.orgr. Steinbrcnrwr acc:optt~d a trophy from smiling c:omrnissionor Bud Selig and hluhlwrnd like a baby. 
J·:verybody assumed it was hc~causo his Yankot~s had just won tho World Serins. But maybe, just maylw, The Boss was alr(1ady cakulating what it would cost t.o liPid a team capa­ble of repeating. Bncausn that is dearly something worth crying about. 
Free-agency must lw God's way of letting ownnrs know they have too mtwh money. Why else would tho Mcts give Mike Piazza $1) I million for seven years? Or a $:{2 million, four-year dPal to pitcher AI Leiter, who's already :n? l·:vnn r.razim-deals an~ sum to follow as Handy Johnson, Albert Belle, Kevin Brown, Huberto Alomar and a few oth­ers step on stage for baseball's annual auction. 
The debatfl about the Yankees boing a team for the ages is still going on. But if Steinbrenner is serious about keeping it togeth­er, he will have to make it one for the wages in the next few weeks. 
Bornie Williams, his star cen­ter f'iolder, is represented by Scott Boras, the most rapacious agent in the game. Williams won the AL batting title and a Gold Glove making a paltry $8.3 million. If every tear George shed last week turned to gold before it hit the ground, he would still be short.the $100 million Boras suggested will be required just to sit at the negoti­ating table. 
Seott Brosius made an even punier $2.75 million on his way to becoming the Yankees' World Series MVP. The way the game's math works, keeping him in pin­stripes with anything less than a 50 percent raise would be an absolute steal. Ditto for David Cone, the veteran right-hander whose career is a perfect exam­pie of what a goofy business baseball has become. 
Like World Series rival Kevin Brown, Cone has become the quintessential rent-a-pitcher, the arm a club goes after to make a run into the postseason. New York is his sixth stop in 12 big-league seasons. Last year, he was paid $6.7 million. As far as next year, Cone can exercise 


Introduction to Photoshop 4.0 (mac/win) Introduction to Microsoft Word 97 (win) Introduction to Microsoft Excel 97 (win) Introduction to Microsoft Access 97 (win) Intermediate Microsoft Access 97 (win) Introduction to Powerpoint 97 (win) Search and Research the Internet (mac/win) Introduction to WordPerfect 8 (win) Useful Windows Resources at NO (win) Introduction to ClarisWorks s.o (mac) Papers & Projects in Word 97 (win) 
Introduction to Microsoft Word 98 (mac) Introduction to Microsoft Excel 98 (mac) Increasing Your Net Worth (mac/win) Introduction to Microsoft Powerpoint 98 (mac) 
REGISTER FOR CLASSES ONLINE AT OUR WEBSITE: 
www.nd.edu/-sctp 
o•
o• 
an option in his contract forcing the Yankees to pay him $5.5 million. Or, he can put himself up for sale one more time and probably get $8 million on the open market. 
Think it's chaotic now? 
Just wait. 
On Dec. 15, for the first time in a half-dozen years, baseball will have a winter meeting. Shortly after engineering the palace coup that toppled his predecessor, Selig canceled the annual offseason gatherings. His reasoning? Confining the own­ers in meeting rooms for too long made it too tempting to mach into each other's pockets. 
Exhibit No. 1 was the 1990 meeting, where several mediocre, thirtysomething pitchers with career .500 win­ning percentages were signed for an average of $2 million a year. In some cases, the justifi­cation was this guy or that did most of the things the rest of the world does right-handed -sip soup, pen notes, throw baseballs -with his left hand. 
Sometimes the excuses were even l'limsier. But $2 million didn't seem like much of a stan­dard at the time. Baseball was already supporting a handful of ballplayers at better than twice that figure. And everybody had disposable income. 
The one bearish sentiment was expressed by Edgar Bronfman, who owned the Montreal Expos at the time and ran the Seagram's liquor empire in his day job. About the same time as he put his team up for sale, he left an open letter on a table in the press room. 
"Hevenues are exceedingly strong, but expnnses may soon choke many of us," the letter said. "The financial entieement to win is so strong that we all roll the dice every year to the benefit, at the end of the day, of very few indeed." 
The point of dredging up the story is not to feel sorry for Bronfman, the millionaires hn left behind, or even the crowd that owns baseball franchises today. It's hard to feel sorry for somebody whose plea for help always goes something like this: "Stop us bnfore we spend more." 
The point is that more and more, the tab for all this spend­ing is being foisted off on an unsuspecting public. 
No team that spent lnss than $39 million had a winning record last season. For any team that doesn't have monny pouring in from a local TV deal, the bnst way is to havl' a rela­tively new stadium loadt>.d with luxury boxes. Tlw reason the Padres spent so freely this past season is because they're about to ask voters to build them a $411 million ballpark. The Mets, by signing Piazza and Leiter. have signaled the same intcmt. 
Here's how wo know: A clause in Piazza's deal guarantt~es him use of a luxury box for all 81 Mets' home game until 2003, when the team plans to bo in a new ballpark. That year. hn gnts use of a luxury box for only 40 games. With what the dub will be paying him, the Mets ligurn he can spring for the mst. 
OVERLOOKING THE PLAYING FIELD AT COVELESKJ STADIUM 
Complete BanquetFacilities Year Round 
fl'lus~~ 
&: Catering For Up To 2.,.500 
Customized Catering to accomodate any occasion including Dances and Notre Dame Tailgate Parties 
STATE OF THE ART AUDIO & VIDEO 
ses » 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 30, 1998
I
I • IRISH INSIGHT 


Walk-ons take shot at realizing their dreams 
By TED FOX 
Sports Writer 
Question: Why would anyone in his right mind get up at 
6:45 a.m. on a Tuesday when he had no classes until 11 a.m.? 
You might guess he awoke this early because he is an extremely slow dresser or because he waited to do five calculus assignments. However, if any of these were the case, he probably would have slept until ten before 11, anyway. 
No, the answer lies deeply rooted in the soul of this per­son, a part of him essential to who he is. 
"What could be more essen­tial than sleep?" you might ask. The simple reply is just one word. Basketball. 
But this was no ordinary day of basketball, not your typical Tuesday spent wishing you could fast forward to Fridav, or at least Thursday night.· This day was different. 
At 7:30a.m., on the floor of the JACC, 17 men, including myself, shook off the early morning cobwebs to tryout as walk-ons for the men's basket­ball team. 
Each guy came with his own history of great plays, his one special move or ability that he felt made him stand out from others, his own reason for wanting to make this team. But this desire to be a part of something special each one had in common. 
All of us knew going in that the odds were stacked against us. Making a team as a walk­on in the first place is like con­vincing someone who only considers watching either Sportscenter or Headline News for daily sports, and then picks one over the other, that he/she should not only consider but watch Fox Sports Chicago, as well. ,."~" 
For the student, being Fox Sports Chicago is hard enough. 
This task becomes even more difficult when you find out the team already carries nineteen guys, a large amount enough sports TV that he should watch a little more. 
More often than not, Fox Sports Chicago will go unwatched. 

Similarly, the walk-on player will not make it into the coach's lineup. 
Despite this, we, the group of 17, were still ready to put ourselves on the line for the shot at realizing the dream. 
After going through some preliminary drills, we were divided up into four teams to scrimmage for the rest of the time. 
My team sat out the first game, and sitting there on the sidelines, I couldn't help but wonder what the coaches watching players run up and down the floor were thinking. Would one of these guys I was going to play against here being suiting up for the Irish the next four or five months? 
Would I make an impression on one of the numerous coach­es there to give myself a shot at putting on the blue and gold this winter? 
As the tryout moved along, we saw coaches take some of the players aside and talk to them, what we figured to be an interest in how they were playing. One of these selected players was on my four-man squad, and we did our best to give him a chance to shine. 
After forty minutes of run­ning fast breaks, pulling treys, and yanking down rebounds, the coaches called all of us to center court. 
Given the odds we contended with, the news we received was pretty predictable. No one had convinced the coaches that he was ready to be the twentieth member on the Irish squad. 
The fairy tale Rudy-esque ending that we had all hoped for didn't come. 
Or did it? 
The coaches asked a few of the guys to stay after and give their names and numbers in case the team needed some additional help during the year. The coaches might not be ready to watch Fox Sports Chicago just yet, but they were still considering it. But the happy ending extended far beyond this. 
Every guy that dared to put himself on the line on that floor that Tuesday morning under the eyes of complete strangers and college basket­ball coaches just because he wanted a chance to be a part of something special. a Notre Dame basketball team, came out on top. 
He chased a dream, even tho':Jgh he knew how unlikely it was. 
And when it was over, every player could walk off that court knowing he had given it his best shot, not left himself to wonder "What if?". 
I guess we were all a part of something pretty special after all. 

for any basketball ,----------------------------------------------, team. Now you have to convince the coach, played by the TV view­er, who already gets 
It doesn't matter if you win or lose, it's whether there's a WHOPPER® after the game. 

After the game, nothing beats the taste ofa delicious flame-broiled WHOPPER® made your way. And right now it's just $2.09---------Now, that's reason to cheer. 
(Price and participation may vary.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better. 
©1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Whopper and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
L___________________________________ 
---------~ 
Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 

Gilbert blamed for Panthers' winless start 
Associated Press ly point to Gilbert as someone with our defense," Capers said. ing particularly well. And until 
who could be making bigger con­"I still don't think he's where that happens, the Panthers are 
CIIAHLOTTE, N.C. tributions. he's going to be." going to remain a target for criti­
Sean Gilbert knows his status Gilbnrt responds by agreeing Thumb surgery required cism. as one of the NFL's highest-paid with them. Gilbert to play with a cast on one "It hurts. It really hurts," players makes him a convenient "l feel like if we're not win­hand for much of the exhibition Gilbert said. "But we're 0-7. target for criticism in the ning, then I'm not doing season and the first two weeks of You've got to be a man. You've Carolina Panthers' 0-7 start. enough," he said Thursday. the regular season, limiting his got to accept it. You can't sit 
Big things wern nxpectnd from "You've got to be man enough to ability to grasp. He also is mak­there and accept all the goodthe l'antlwrs this year after an deal with the good and the bad, ing the transiti,on from a 4-3 and not accept the bad." olTseason in which they spent tho eriticism, the sarcasm. That's defense with the Washington Actually, it's not all bad. When tens of millions or dollars to Iii"!~." Redskins to playing right end in Gilbert and the rest of the upgrade thnir dnfense. The prize Coaeh Dom Capers offers noth­Carolina's 3-4 alignment. And he Panthers showed up for work of the crop was Gilbnrt, on whom ing hut praise for tho play of is double-teamed so frequently this week, they found hand­tlw l'anthnrs invnsted two lirst­c;ilhort, whose numbers havo that he usually needs just one painted posters waiting at each round draft picks and a contrad ho(~n solid if unspectacular. 1-lo hand to count the number of player's locker, courtesy of a worth $46.5 million over S(W(HJ has 42 tackles, two sacks and times each game he gets a clear fourth-grade class at years. nirw pressures, all of which are shot at the quarterback. Weddington Hills Elementary
But less than halfway into tho tops among the team's defensive To Gilbert, though, all of that School in Concord. Gilbert's season, Carolina's defense is linemen. His tackles total is merely amounts to making poster featured several motiva­ranknd 29th in tho 30-tnam NFL fourth on the team and he is sec­excuses. tional phrases that encouragedand is on the vergo of breaking ond in sacks and pressures, trail­"You've got to be able· to him to stay positive and keep set­the club ror.ord for numbor of ing Kevin Greene in both cate­adjust," he said. "That's what it ting lofty goals. big plays allowed in a 16-game gories heading into Sunday's takes to be a good player." "Now that's love," he said, sdwduln. gamo against New Orleans (4-3). Until Carolina starts winning, smiling and shaking his head. "If 
And when many fans vent "Sean has made a lot of it's unlikely that anyone on the you can win over kids, you can tlwir frustrations. they froquent-progress. He had a lot to learn defense will look like he's play-win over anybody." 
The Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA Check Card 
A Smart way to keep your Christmas spending in Check this Holiday Season! 

FASTER 

No checkbook to carry. No check to write. No waiting for check approval. 

EASIER 

Just present your card at the time of purchase, and sign your name. The amount will automatically be deducted from your checking account and you'll get a receipt. Then, on your monthly checking account statement, every purchase will be detailed-with the amount, merchant's name, and location. 

MORE CONVENIENT 
Your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union VISA Check Card is accepted everywhere VISA is accepted. It's the smart way to keep your Christmas spending in Check this Holiday Season. 



r~ NOTRE DAME 
~--FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
Independent of the University 
•NFL 
Steelers suffer identity crisis 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Such is the state of the 

Pittsburgh Steelers' worst-in· 
the-league passing offense: 
their best passer may be a 
receiver, and their best 
receiver may be their passer. 
One of the key plays in 

Monday's 20-13 victory in 
Kansas City came when rook­
ie Hines Ward took a pitch 
from quarterback Kordell 
Stewart and lofted a perfectly 
placed pass back into 
Stewart's hands for a 17-yard 
gain. 
It was exactly tht) kind of' 

play they ran a couple of sea­
sons ago when Stewart was 
known as Slash, the multi­
dimensional threat capable of 
throwing a touchdown pass 
or catching one. 
Likewise, it also was one of 

the nicest catches -over­
the-shoulder, against tight 
defensive coverage -by any 
Steelers receiver this season. 
The only surprise is their 
ql.larterback made it. 
Steelers coach Bill Cowher 

hasn't reverted to drawing up 
his offense in the dirt, but 
says the play that turned 
Ward into a Slash Jr. -Z 
Motion Quarterback 
Throwback -was installed 
only last week. 
"It was just a thought, and 

it worked. It was one of' those 
things you think of late at 
night, and it was a good 
play," Cowher said. 
Good thing, too, because 

the Steelers otherwise passed 
for only 82 yards as Stewart 
failed again to brMk out of a 
season-long passing slump. 
The only lower-rated AFC 
quarterback is San Diego 
rookie Ryan Leal'. 
"Nobody really knew how 

the play was going to work," 
Ward said. "Wtl really never 
ran it in a live hitting and 
blocking situation." 
... 
Jl' nothing else, the play 

forces opposing defensive 
coordinators to spend time 
preparing for the possibility 
Ward might pop up any­
where on the field, as Slash 
Sr. once did. 
"We have to use guys like Hines, who's a pretty special guy," Cowher said. "He can do a lot of different things like Kardell, a guy who has a lot of special abilities. If we can utilize these guys, put them in situations where we can keep people off-balance and make them a degree ten­tative, it's to our advantage." 
Ward, who played quarter­back, running back and receiver at Georgia, was seen as Slash's heir apparent when he was drafted in April. But he has played mostly on special teams, making ten tackles, but only two recep­tions. 
"I know I wasn't drafted to play special teams, but I'm having a ball with it," he said. "It's a way I can holp contribute to the team. I'm down there tackling people. I haven't done that since high school. I've got a lot of tack­les. I'm actually doing well." 
He prefers the way he con­tributed Monday. 

..--~~--~~~~--~---------------------~--~----~------------~~-----------­
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 30, 1998 
---~~--~----~~----------~~--~ 
• MEN'S INTERHAll SOCCER 


Dawgs upset top ranked Juggernauts 
By MIKE CONNOLLY The Dawgs won practically Sports Writer every loose ball and con­trolled the flow of the game 
The 4-1-1, fifth-seeded for most of the night. Alumni Dawgs pulled of a "They won every 50/50 shocking 1-0 victory over the ball," Knott captain Chris 
top-seeded and previously Nuro said. "They were a little undefeated Juggernauts of bit bigger than us and that Knott Hall last night in a allowed them to control the semi-final matchup under the head balls. We never settled lights of Stepan Field. down and never got our 
Kabir Audu got Alumni on offense into a rhythm." the board midway through the Knotts's lone scoring chance first half on a left footed shot of the night came with less from a sharp angle that Knott than a minute remaining in 
goalie Andy Beegan had no the game when a poor Alumni chance to stop. pass in their own zone was Although Audu made a intercepted by nrn.Pittmer. 
tremendous play on the goal Dittmer fired a hard shot he sought no glory for him­toward the goal but it sailed self; instead, he gave credit just wide. for the victory to his team­As the closing seconds 
mates. ticked away, a fine Knott sea­
"It was a team effort," he son also was coming to an said. end. Rebounding from a .500 Alumni's team defense and season last year to claim an 
hustle were the key to their undefeated regular season victory. Sweeper Dave and number one playoff seed, Zachary and Outside Left the Juggernauts have made a Backer Jared Marx led the great run. Dawgs defense that only Meanwhile, Alumni looks 
allowed one Knott shot all forward to meeting the win­game. 
ner between Zahm and "Our defense is solid," Fisher, whose semifinal was 
Alumni captain Bart Lanahan rained out last night in the said. "Head balls were to key interhall championship on to tonight's victory." Sunday, Nov. 1 at 1 p.m. 
The Sports Page Bar &Grill 
We're Your New Neighbors 
50827 Princess Way • Granger (Across from Big c Lumber) 
Full Lunch & Dinner Menu. .. Check out our Weekly Special! 
Two entertainment 
choices••• 



...at one great place! 
Friday & Saturday 11-2am Sunday 12 noon -12 midnight 
Live 18 Satellite TVs for your Favorite Sport 247-0000 
need for improvement even in John's last weekend and is her game, however. currently thirteenth in the
WoiDen 

"We haven't been scoring a nation with a 0.68 goals lot," Heft said. "We all have to against average. She and
continued from page 32 

get into gear and I think we all Elizabeth Wagner have com­Cornell, 8-1. can improve right now." bined to total 12 shutouts on 
The Irish are looking to con­Since the loss to Seton Hall, the season. tinue their winning ways and LaKeysia Beene has stepped Anne Makinen has 10 goals are led by Heft, who is fourth up her game and earned co­and 10 assists on the season in the nation in both points per Big East goalkeeper of the and defender Jen Grubb is game {2.82) and goals per week honors. She recorded among the nation's leaders in game {1.29). Heft sees the shutouts over Michigan and St. assists. 







LaSalle r 

Career Opportun t 1 e s 
LaSalle Partners, a global leader in the commercial real estate industry, invites you to learn about LaSalle Partners' reputation as an innovative creator of value for real estate owners, investors and users. 
POSITION Financial Analyst for LaSalle Partners Inc., an international real estate firm providing Advisory, Management Services, Tenant Representation, Investment Banking and Land Services to corporate and institutional clients. 
EDUCATION All majors are welcome. Strong quantitative aptitude and sound communication skills are preferred. 
PRESENTATION Apresentation outlining the Financial Analyst Program and LaSalle Partners will be held: Monday, November 30 6:30-8:30pm Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 
INTERVIEW DATE Interviews will be held on December 1. Additional information is available at the Career & Placement Office or visit www.lasalle.com. Please submit resumes to the Career and Placement Office November 2 and 3. 
Atlanta • Chicago •London • Los Angeles • Mexico City • New York • Paris • Washington, o. c. 
The Notre Dame Athletic Department Presents 
A symposium with NBC Sports' Dick IGberg and 
+%t:W:: 
30, 
Jordan Auditorium, 3 p.m. College of Business Administration 
Admission is FREE 
For more information, contact John Heisler, Sports Information Director, at 631-7516. 

Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
Volleyball 
continued from page 32 
setter for the injured Denise Boylan. tallying a career high 49 assists. Frnshman Kristy Kreher also substituted at settnr for the first time. 
Loading thn Golden Eagles was Erika Favero with a carnnr high 27 kills, and Deborah dos Santos with 69 assists. 
Brown will bn snnking hnr 200th !:areer win at Notrn Dame tomorrow in a conference match at honw versus thn Syracuse Orangewomen. 
Syracuse (17 -9 overall. 2-4 in the Big East) has not beaten the Irish since 1981, with the all­time serins bntwnen tht~ two tmuns favoring the Irish at 5-l. 
Haclwl Watson leads the Orangewonwn in digs with 395, having the nation's fifth-highest avnragn pnr game. Watson was nanwd Big East eo-player of the week Oct. 19. 
"It'll bn a dnlinitn challenge for us," said Brown. "Blocking and 
The Observer/Brei Hogan 

passing arn going to bn kny for The Irish volleyball team lost a close match to national powerhouse us against Syracuse." Oral Roberts on a controversial call in the fifth game. 



----~~------~--------------~~ 
page 25 

•NFL 

Levy heads list of Hall nominees 
Associated Press Although his credentials seem 
eertain to get him into the Hall. 

CANTON, Ohio questions have been raised 
Sometimes losing isn't all whether his off-field probltlms,
that damaging. including two drug arrests and 
Marv Levy, who guided the an IRS investigation, would 
Buffalo Bills to an unprece­keep voters from selecting 
dented four-straight Super him. 
Bowls -all losses -was A 10-time Pro RowI player. 
among 76 nominees for the Taylor was so dominant from 
Pro Football Hall of Fame. his outside linebacker position
Levy retired as coach of the that opponents designed
Bills after last season. He was offenses to avoid him. He 
123-78 and took them to the played for two Super Bowl 
Super Bowl after the 1990 winners. 
through '93 seasons. Dickerson ran for a record 
The 10th winningest coach 2,105 yards for the Los 
in NFL history with 143 victo­Angeles Hams in 1984. He 
ries, Levy also spent five sea­stands third on the career 
sons witfJ"the Kansas City rushing list with 13,259 yards 
Chiefs and was a coach in the and rushed for at least 1,000 
CFL. yards seven times. Dickerson 
'That would be great if he played for the Rams, Colts and 
got in on the first ballot," Bills Raiders. 
receiver Andre Reed said. "We Also on the list for the first 
had a dynasty here and he was time were running back Roger
def'mitely the captain. We were Craig; receivers Mark Clayton 
just the lieutenants playing the and James Lofton; quarter­
roles. backs Phil Simms and B1·ian "I think Marv not only taught Sipe; defensive backs Dave football, but he taught us how Duerson, David Fulcher and to be people. He taught us how Everson Walls; offensive line­.. to conduct ourselves off the men Bill Fralic. Mike ·field. I'm very happy for him." Munchak, Joe Jacoby and Jay Two of the best players of Hilgenberg; defensive lineman 
the 1980s and early '90s -Gary Johnson, Howie Long, Bill 
Lawrence Taylor and Eric Maas and Harvey Martin; line­
Dickerson -also were placed backers John Offerdahl, Andre 
on the ballot for the first time. Tippett and .Jim Youngblood. 
Taylor, one of the greatest Voting will take place and 
linebackers in NFL history in a inductees will be announced 
13-yeat' career with the New on Jan. 30, with between four 
York Giants. earlier this week and seven new members being
entered drug rehabilitation. selected. 
:ffl~D~~ K ~ It's the weekend... 
1,... 

y It's time to get ~ ­

~ Wit~ ~ 
Wal!!ih Wild Weekend r~~~ Friday, October 30 


S,~v:A~ 4-6 pm \ · J ~\J' Dut!iide of Recker§ , 
IUUI < ~ Float Judging / ~ 11 
1 
~ H~ ~~ @ 5 pm , '"
,..../'-~'1·'( §~; g~Parade to JA[[ .. · .
t1 Mo • ·~ V \ ' •
Io ; @ 5:30 pm , : 




--~ 
page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, October 30, 1998 
" Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame horne-game Saturdays. 
e new world opened up one Saturday morning." 
"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. HOLY So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the 
CROSS 

full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course, you can talk with someone in 
COLLEGE

the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for 
.. 
P.O. Box 308 
*
a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Table in Joyce 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 Center. We're a two-year, transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
Men 
continued from page 32 
goaltending duties up in the air, senior Carlos lga emerged as the leader and has since allowed just 0. 72 goals a game. 
In recent games, West Virginia has done better than that, scoring shutout wins against Providence, 2-0, and St. John's, 1-0. 
Velho is confident his team will take advantage of the game and the opportunity to use it to springboard into the tournament. 
"Its important for the entire team to be playing soldily on defense going into this game and next weekend," said Velho. "You have to be mentally tough and ready for the game. In the tournament, it's one loss and you're out. Its especially important to remain focused." 
'WE'RE GOING TO BE 
BACK ON OUR 
FlELD AND WE'LL BE ABLE 
TO PLAY OUR STYLE.' 
RYAN Cox 
IRISH SOCCER PLAYER 
Currently, the Irish sit in the seventh spot amongst the eight teams that will play in the tournament. Though the team they will face is uncertain, the Irish will delinetly not be play­ing at home after West Virginia. 
"We're going to be back on 
our field and we 'II be able to 
play our style," said Cox. "We 
need to win this game to get 
into a higher place in the Big 
East." 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
DiMaggio recovering nicely in Miami 
Associated Press ter than at any time since he has 
admitted to Memorial Regional 
MIAMI Hospital in Hollywood, Fla., on Oct. 
Joe DiMaggio was well enough 12. DiMaggio had his lungs to receive a few visitors Thursday drained at least twice to relieve as he continued to rebound from severe breathing problems, what a friend said was a ncar-fatal Engelberg said. The Hall of Fame bout with pneumonia and a lung center fielder was still in intensive infection. care, but was in a larger room. 
Morris Engelberg, who is also ''lie's up out of bed. That's a DiMaggio's lawyer and surrogate, major, major plus," said said the Yankees great _::lo::..::o:.:.:k:.::.ed;;;....;;b.:.et=------­


Di!!count coupon 

Coupon good on bookl:, rnu· good until 
~ic, ~idelini!S & c~fe itern~. 
25% 
Dee g1, 1991?

(exeludm: magazines, 
On. OOU~On ~ot v/oft, ~~·~... new~papers & net bookl:) OFF Off., mqy not b• combin•d with Qny othot discount
l:[elij•Jjrfj co"E us1oE: I 
101111, •uut, '+'ltiO, UD I Ull. 

MISHAWAKA: 4230 GRAPE RO • ON THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF GRAPE 8: DAY RO •AcCROSS FROM DON PABLOS • (2 19)-271-9930 
BOOKSIGNING 
TOM PAGNA AUTHOR OF 

PeTALS FROM A Rose 
WILL BE JOINED BY ARA PARSEGHIAN 

FRIDAY •OCTOBER 30 •7:00-1 0:00P.M. 
& SPECIAL GUEST 

REGIS PHILBIN 
SATURDAY • OCT 31 • 9-10:00 A.M. 
15% WILL BE DONATED TO ARA'S MEDICAL RESEARCH FOUNDATION TO HELP FIND A CURE FOR NIEMAN-PICK 

TYCE C MISHAWAKA, INDIANA • 4230 GRAPE RO• ON THE NORTHEAST CORNER OF GRAPE AND DAY 
ROAD • (219) 271-9930 

Engelberg, who acknowledged for the first time Wednesday that DiMaggio's life had been in dan­ger. 
Engelberg has become much more optimistic. 
"He's a tough guy." the 58-year­old lawyer said. "That's why he's going to make it through." 
DiMaggio was expected to remain in intensive care for anoth-er week to ten days. He's not likely to be discharged until about a week before his 84th birthday, Nov. 25. 

His condition was improved enough for doctors to allow DiMaggio to sit at a table in his room. and dear him to receive vis­itors, though DiMaggio's long­standing desire for privacy would keep the numbers severely limited. 
young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole 
Website: http:/ /www.hcc-nd.edu new world for your son or daughter. E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
Right for you, right from the start. 
.... J 
27

Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


Give away your coat... and SHARE TilE WARM1H. 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help you, once again, share the Notre Dame warmth and spirit. 

\: . 
When you turn in your coat or jacket October 26, 1998 through December 4, 1998 at the Center for Social Concerns, the Hammes Bookstore or other promi­nently displayed locations around campus, PROJECT WARMTH® and The University of Notre Dame will donate it to someone who can really use it this winter. In return, you will receive a certificate good for 25o/o off a new GEAR For Sports® jacket 
-
at the Hammes Bookstore. 

SHARE THE WARMTH AND THE SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! . 
-
CoLLECI10N SITEs: CeN!erj(n· Social Co11cenzs • Hammes Bookstore • Student Got!enunenl •St. Mtcl.wel's Laundry-Main and Campus Dislrihutiou Cetzter • raFortrme lujnnnatimz Desk • ,1/umni Association -423 Grace Hall • 
AJ.L Residem:e 1/a/ls • 204 COBA • 257 Fitzpatrick llall • IUU Hmzd Hall • 10) law School • 137 o· ,')baR • 202 Hurley 

GEAR 
\l'S.<:o tvo SPOITS 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME . J~....~c_ 
~ 
• Sl. MICHAELs LAUNDRY • 11. ...... !J. • su~~Oit.T SERVICES. Studt>nl Adivilil'S • Hammes nookstore
STUDENT GOVERNMENT · 
Friday, October 30, 1998
Page 28 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
--.i 
I  
I  
I  
I  
I  _..  
I  
I  
I  
I  ..­ 
I  
I  


on Notre Dame Ave. 
NOTRE DAME 
to Hall of Fame 
12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. 3:00P.M. FRIDAY 4:00P.M. 5:00P.M.
ONLY! 
6:00P.M. 
7:00P.M. 
HALL OF FAME 
to Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 
1:30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 

Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 29 

·­


NBA lockout continues as millionares take a day off 
24 hours talking since Saturday, developing a loose framework for what the next labor deal is going to look like. 
So far, they know it will retain the Larry Bird excep­tion. change the rookie salary system. include some kind of "tax" on th highest-paid play­ers and increase minimum salaries for long-term vcter-

The Oflice of International Student Affairs The India Association of Notre Dame The Asian Indian Classical Music Society 
An Extravaganza ofRhythms 
featuring The Glohal Rhythms Ensemhle Miami University, Oxford, Ohio. 
Washington llall llniversity of Notre Dame l\londuJ"...l!!r Znd uf Non•mlll'r. 1991!, 111 8:1111 p.m. 
Admission: Frcl' 
The concert will feature a group of 9 artistes. They w.ill play Saxoph<)nc. Clarinet. Flute. Tahla, Mridangant. Ghawm. Xylophone. Marimbas and Steel Pan. The recital. expected to last ahout 75 minutes. will feature two major compositions set to Ragas Bairagi ;md Madhyamvathi (Mcgh). with the major piece a Ragam Tanam Pallavi set to AJi Tala.. 
/\II performers arc music major' who have a strong hackgrounJ in Western Classical Music hut have also been learning lmlian classical music. 
Further information: Umesh Garag (631-7352) 
ans. 
The biggest hang-up remains what percentage of revenues will be devoted to salaries by the time the new system has been in place for afew years. 
The owners have moved off their insistence upon getting the percentage down from 57 percent to 48 percent, and the players have moved off asking 
• 

~ NOTRE DAME~ 
~APARTMENTS \_1JV 
Now leasing for second semester! 
•
Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 

•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•Pre-Leasing 
for Fall of'99 


•
August-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent 


•Only afew left! ••The B~Pst V&i1Ulre in (OH'-=-Camllms [-KI(]nuisung'' 
Managed By Real Estate Management Corportation 234-9923 
• 

sion ended. 
Those gaps remain very large. and it will clearly take much more movement and compromise to get to a point where a deal can be done. 
The sides spoke by telephone Thursday and agreed to speak again Friday. There arc no bargaining sessions planned, and the owners who sit on the league's negotiating eommittee have returned to their home eities. 
Over the next day or two. the other owners and the rank and file players will be briefed on what has been accomplished. 
The sides arc talking about a hybrid system incorporating aspects of each side's latest proposal. In the first two or three years, there will be a tax on any owner who signs a player to a high-end contract. The sides remain far apart on the threshold and rates for such a tax. 
After those first two or thrne years. if the percentage of rev­enue devoted to player salaries fails to drop to an agt·end-upon level, an escrow tax of 10 per­cent will be withheld from some players' paychecks. Both sides are widely separated on how many players would eon­tribute to the escrow fund. 
In those "escrow plan" years, the sidns would dntnrmilw at the end of caeh season how much revenue had bnnn devot­ed to playnr salarins. If the tar­geted number had IHHlll exceeded, a portion ol' the tl se row m o n e y w o u I d be returned to the owners and the rest would go back to the play­ers. 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
After a busy burst ol' bar­gaining. the opposing sides in the NBA loekout took a breather Thursday to assess their progress and determine thnir next moves. 
Owners and players spent four days and a total of about for 63 percent, sources involved in the talks told The Associated Press on condition of anonymity. 
"There's still a pretty wide gap that separates the sides. But at least we identified the sizes of the gaps between us," commissioner David Stern said early Thursday morning after an eight-hour bargaining ses­
• 

• 
What do a sailor, an old man, a girl, & pizza have in common? 

CURIOUS? 
Come to the Booz· Allen & Hamilton Infor?lation session on Monday, November 2, 1998 at 6PM in the Alumni Room at the Morris Inn to find out the answer. Pizza and soda will be provided. 
Booz-Ailen & Hamilton provides management and technology consulting services in the areas of program management, systems engineering and information technology. Since 1914, Booz-Allen & Hamilton~ 7,100-+ employees have made a unique and lasting impression on the world's most progressive companies and government agencies as a leading professional services firm. Visit our website: http://www.bah.com to learn more about Rom:-AIIen & Hamilton. 
.. 
-

page 30 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 30, 1998 
• SMC VOllEYBAll. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS

... 


Agnes Bill leads Belles' Hitters 
By DANA KIDNEY 
Sports Writer 
Agnes Bill is the leader of the Saint Mary's volleyball team, and her on-the-court skills are complemented by her leader­ship on and off the court. 
"Agnes Bill is a great team leader," said coach Jennie Joyse. "She does so by exam­ple. 
Junior Agnes Bill is one of the three captains of the Saint Mary's College Belles, and has been playing volleyball for the Belles since her freshman year. 
"Agnes has been a steady player with several solid stats," said Joyce. 
"Her offensive talent wins matches and games for us, and she is really coming to her own defensively." 
Some of Bill's stats for the season thus far include a· total of 338 kills. only two away from last year's total, which held a number-two spot in the 
'MySTATS ARE GREAT. 
I'M VERY HAPPY 
WITH THEM.' 
AGNES BILL SMC VOLLEYVBALL CAPTAIN
-
record book. This stat also puts her at number one among her fellow Belles, and will most likely land her with a spot within the top ten in the record book for number of kills per season. 
Agnes already holds the num­ber one spot for number of kill attempts per season, as well as 
the number three spot for all­time career kills. 
"My stats are great; I'm very happy with them," Agnes Bill said. "I couldn't have gotten here without my teammates though. It takes their sets and passes to get the numbers. Without them, I wouldn't be where I am today in my game." 
Being a captain is a huge fac­tor in Agnes' duties on the 
-
team. She, along with the other juniors .Mary Radovich and Jayne Ozbolt, have all stepped up to lead the team this season. 
"All three of us had to accept the roles that we were given. Not one of us could have done it without the others," Bill said. "We all have worked together to create the team that we have." 
Freshman Angie Meyers spoke of Bill's leadership role on the team this year. 
"She is a sweet girl and she really motivates the team," Meyers said, "She is a true leader and is capable of getting us all pumped up with her cheering and encouragement." 
More of Anges' stats include her service aces total of 31 for the season, the highest for the team. She also has a total of 356 digs, averaging 3.7 per game thus far. She had 33 digs this season against Defiance, which is close to the number­one spot in the record book. She is on target to beat her record of 3 7 2 digs from last season, and she could break into the number-two spot over­all. She will also be in the top five for number of digs per sea­son for the first time in her career. 
"She always plays to be num­ber one," said freshman Jolie. LeBeau. "She is one of the strongest players on the team and she never gives up." 
"Her play is so uplifting and her talent is unbelievable," Sophomore Victoria Butcko said. "Watching her. you can't help but think, 'Wow! She's so awesome!'" 
Bill started playing volleyball in sixth grad!-l, and she hasn't slowed down since. 
"It's really important to not get down and stay focused. working hard. It keeps you going," Agnes said. 
In speaking of the season 

overall, Agnes. accredits much 
of the success to her team­
mates. 
"It's been great playing with 

this group of girls," Bill said. 
"From the beginning, I felt this 
group was special. We were 
really able to clique." 
The team as a 

whole has come 
out of a losing streak and now holds a winnirllg record. Agnes said that her encour­agement for the team has kept them going. 
"It's important to encourage play­ers after a mis­take," Bill said. "If you don't, players get scared and keep going down and messing up." 
"Agnes is an easy model to fol­low," said coach Joyce. "She is so likeable and cheery. She sets the tone for the rest of the team and leads them to success.v 
One Day Table Tennis Tournament-Signups begin Thursday, October 29 for this singles tourna­ment: All games will be played on Saturday, NOVEMBER 7, 1998 at the RSRC between 11:OOam and 6:00pm. Sign-up at RecSports by November 5 at 6:00pm or call 1-6100 for more information. Space is limited. ·tY 
f~c/Staff/Family Te:tnd!> £:linic -Bring your o:wn racquet to the Eck Tennis Pavilion for this FREE clmtc presented by the Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Teams. Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations hightlight this event from 6:00·7~30pm on Wednesday, NOVEMBER 18. Don't liH·get your TENNIS SHOES! No advance registration necessary. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more informa­tion. 

Free Pizza and Soda! (Get there early!!) Free Goody Bags for the first 150 people! 


La Fortune Ballroom Friday, October 30 
Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 

Presentation and Information Session Monday, November 2, 1998 6:00 -8:00 pm Room 112 Center for Continuing Education 
All students interested in learning more about 
ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY 

the actuarial profession are welcome to attend. Interviews -Full Time 




Allstate·
Tuesday, November 3, 1998 
You're ingood hands. Check with Career & Placement to schedule an interview time. 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
page 31 The Observer • TODAY Friday, October 30, 1998 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


FOXTROT 
DILBERT 
OOGBERi TI-\E. CONSULTANT 
501'\£ CUSTOM£.RS MrGHT COMPLAIN THAT THE lNVrSfBLE ROBOT THEY BOUGHT FROM US ... 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

12 Football 32 Unfair 44 Mr. Chips 51 Former Fords Hall-of-Farner employers portrayer, 1969 52 They fit in Blount 33 Word after over 45 Flat dweller sockets 
13Wing or clover 47 Perform lousily 53 Tube top19 Wnter de 34 Family 48 Freud 54 Take credit?
Beauvoir el at. providers? contemporary 
49 Many teamsters 55 Earth orbiter

35 "G1tl" 24 Maintain 
36 Piano pro 
Its not just a job,
37 Move to the side Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
Portuguese 
38 Soda . __ are available by touch-tone phone:India 1-900-420-5656 (75C per minute).
26 Inside no. 41 Hard to open Annual subscriptions are available for the 

its a lifestyle.28 Blue-ribbon 
43 Contributor of best of Sunday crosswords from the last 29 Unhurried ga1t big bucks 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
000 

.......friday............can't hardly wait.ooooooo8pm/10:30pm....cushing auditorium.........$2................. 
acoustic cafe 
12·30am...........reekers............................................······ 
1

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
afterhours 
.......saturday.......can't hardly wait.........8pm/10:30pm....cushing auditorium.........$2....................... 
happy halloween.....................
00 ...................................00 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
... IS NOii-UNG BUT AN EMPTY BOX. I WfLL TRAIN OUR SUPPORT STAFF TO 
58 Lots of bucks 59 Some story so Brisk 61 Lith. and Azer., 
once 62 Suffix with huck 
DOWN 
1 Patronizes 2 AI the scene 3 One-named folk 
singer 4 Subject for St. Thomas Aquinas 5 Hersey's bell 
town 6 Tall and wiry 7 Places to 
overnight a Rachel's sister 9 Singer Nicks 
10 Author Barbara of "Laughing All the Way" 
Puzzle by Gilbert H ludwig

11 It's inspired 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Harry Hamlin, Grace Slick, Henry Winkler, Fred Friendly 
Happy Birthday: Emotional mat­ters may not be as bad as you think. Usc discipline to pursue your goals .1nd achieve your dreams. You have what it takes to make things happen, so don't sit back waiting for others to do things for you. The time to put a move on il is now. Time's wasting and you need to take ad vantage of every possibility that comes your way. Your numbers: 10, 19, 22, 28, 46,48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Trav­d and educational pursuits will be favorable. You will be easily misinter­preted by friends, colleagues and rda­tives. Legal affairs will be detrimental to your reputation. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): It's best to stay home and catch up on some things. Disagreements arc likely if you socialize. Loss of money or pos­sessions will cause upset and anger. Don't get involved in get-rich-quick schemes. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take your time and don'I make rash deci­sions regarding others. Your desire for freedom may disrupt your happiness. You will be your own worst enemy when it comes to affairs of the heart. 00000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): It's best for you to work on your own, where you can stay out of trouble. Your temper will be explosive when dealing with colleagues. Business trips will be successful; however, be careful while traveling. 000 
LEO <July 23-Aug. 22): Don't over­spend on friends unworthy of your generous nature. You should avoid any form of gambling or overindul­gences. Don't let relatives put unrea­sonable demands on your time. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Sud­den changes of heart arc likely if pre­cautions aren't taken. Resolve any existing problems. Major upsets will occur if you haven't been completely honest with your lover. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Under­handedness on the part of colleagues may damage your reputation. Be careful not to divulge rertinent information in the heat o an argu­ment. Don't get involved in gossip. 00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Uncertainties about money will result from extravagance. Don't lend or bor­row your money or possessions and avoid getting entangled in joint finan­cial ventures. Overexertion will cause physical limitations. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): E>on't make changes that involve your domestic scene. Accept the inevitable and learn from your experi­ences. Opposition is likely if you haven't been completely honest. It's best to avoid confrontations. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Misinterpretation is likely if you have been evasive. Be careful while driving and take heed of the advice given by close friends. Don't let others take advantage of you. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-l'eb. 18): Your anger will mount over joint finnnciol ventures that are less then adequate. Give advice -not cash ­to friends. Losses arc evident if you are careless with your belongings. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your temper will be tested today if you get involved in confrontations with a stubborn individual. It's best to walk away and put your time and efforts into obtaining additional knowledge or skills. 000 

• OF INTEREST 
Joan B. Kroc Institure -John Esposito, Director of the Center for Muslim-Christian Understanding, will speak on "The Challenge of Political Islam today at 4 
p.m in the Hesburgh Llbrary auditorium. 
The Nanovic lnstitue for European Studies -Dr. Jan Rath of the University of Amsterdam will speak on "The Social Reaction to the Institutionalization of lslam in the Netherlands, Belgium and the U.K." on Monday, November 2, at 4:30 p.m. in room 213 DeBartolo. 


Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Thriving time 5 Seed covering 9 Make meek, in a 
way 14 Bring down 15 Kierkegaard. 
e g. 16 Pools1de turban 17 Scene of W.W. I 
fighting 18 "Black Beauty" 
author 20 Mournmg 22 "Keep it up, 
fell a!" 23 Don't believe it! 21 Pond dwellers 2atce 30 populi 
31 S1ght1ng off the California coast 34 Spiffy 35 Noone 37 Newscaster Paula 39 Relents 40 Pref1x w1th pmpyl 41 Screen 42 Can'llake -­an answer 46 Play by 21-Down 48 Film maker? 50 Knrghl 53 Slapstick, e.g. 56 Falk1rk Citizen 
57 Harry Connick Jr.'s ·--and a Sm1le" 
BILL AMEND 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CU5TOI"\ER'5 HOUSE 
~~~====================:---1 
~ 
f..CCOROING TO OUR 
en. ~ 
SENSORS, HE'S IN 
,
. 
YOUR HOU5E ... AND 
u. 
HE'S
". 

... 
• 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 I I 1 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 I I I I I 1 I I 1 I I I 1 I I I I I I I 1 1 I I I I 1 1 I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 1 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I
1 coming attractions 
.......11/4...............peggy sue got murderedoo .........oo.oo8pm.................lafortune ballroom.............$3..1afun tix office..... 11/5 video dance party 10pm-1am.......oo.stepan center...................free.........············· ~~~~~~~11/1~·.-.·.·.·:.·:.·:.·.·:.'.third ey_e blind····················· stepan ~.... 
eve b concert......................8pm. ................ ............·.························ 
~­
1 
I 
I 

• BiUionarn continue 
• ALaauai ilchuas to 
• Agn« BiU provides 
to battk miUionan:s as
needed leadership for
&.ala ia iataW toe­
the NBA lockout drags

Sain& Mary's volleyball
or IIClioa. 
an yet anothu day.


tram.








PORTS 
O THE

page32---------------------------------------------------------------------------------Friday, October 30, 1998
BSERVER 

• WoMEN's SoccER 
Struggling team prepares for weekend showdowns 
.. 
.. 
-· 
·­

The ObsetVer/Bret Hogan Freshman Mia Sarkesian runs down the field in a recent game. The Irish take on Wisconsin and Syracuse the weekend. 
• VotuvnAn 

By BRIAN KESSLER Chris Petrucelli has said over season and already wrapped Assistant Spans Editor and over that one regular sea· up second place in the Big Ten son game doesn't win or lose with a 6·2·1 conference 
The final two games of the the national championship. record. regular season are usually Notre Dame is now 14-2·1 on Individually, Briget meant to be used for last· the season (8·1-1 in the con· Schwarting and Lindsay minute adjustments, fine tun­ference} and looking to build lloelter are ranked among the ing and final preparation to on its it two-game winning Big Ten's brightest. Schwarting make a run in the postseason. streak. As the Irish look ahead is first among all league goal· 
After battles with to Big East Championships keepers with 8.5 shutouts, Connecticut and Michigan and next week, this weekend's while her 1.04 goals against a recent loss to unranked games are that much more average is ninth best. I!oelter Seton Hall, however, the fifth· crucial. is first among Big Ten players ranked Notre Dame women's "These are our last games in with 10 assists on the season. soccer team is still struggling the regular season and we Maria De Giovanni and to find unity within the team, have been struggling," junior Allison Wagner lead the team as it prepares for weekend forward Jen11y Heft said. "I with 17 points on the season. showdowns with Wisconsin think this is a big test for us Notre Dame holds an 8·1 and Syracuse. this weekend. We really need advantage in the series history, 
"We need to work together to start playing well." inc:luding a 10·0 victory last and play together better," Wisconsin and Syracuse will season. defender Kara Brown said. be formidable opponents for Syracuse, on the other hand, "We need to find unity in the the Irish. is third in the Big East with a team and count on each other. "Both the teams this week· 7·2·1 conference mark. Last That's something we need to end are good teams and with week, the Orangewomen came do in the future." Big East coming up, this is from behind to defeat 
However, never count the going to be a big week for us," Villanova 2·1 and on Irish out. Expectations are Heft said. "If we play well I Wednesday, they trouncPd high for the perennial NCAA think it will help a lot." contenders and head coach The Badgers are 9·5·2 on the 
see WOMEN I page 24 



Controversial call Irish prepare for season finale 
By ANTHONY BIANCO

drops Irish to 9-11 
Assistant Sports Editor 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN errors than the Golden Eagles, Just one game remains in the Sports Writer and dominated up front with 17 Irish season. Though they are blocks to the Golden Eagles' 10. 
guaranteed one more next 

The Fighting Irish volleyball "Blocking is our strength," weekend, having clinched a team dropped a heartbreaker said Brown. "They're a very spot in the Big East tourna­to the Oral Roberts Golden experienced team, and are in 
ment, Notre Dame will be play­Eagles last night, with the the right place at the right time. ing Friday night's game against Golden Eagles winning game It was a fun match, up until the West Virginia as if it meant five by two points to capture the end. Even though we lost everything.victory. tonight, I thought we played "We know the implications of 
Oral Roberts increased its better than we did against this game, if we lose, we have win streak to 18 straight Boston College." to go to Connecticut, whereas if matches, winning 15-8, 14-16, The Irish (9-11 overall, 5·1 in 
we win against West Virginia,15-10, 10-15 and 15-13. The the Big East) responded well to 
we improve our positioning,"match was won on a controver­the challenge ofan experienced 
commented co-captain Phil sial call by the referee, who did Oral Roberts team, but were 
Murphy. "Our focus right now is not call a double hit against unable to come out on top in 
to beat West Virginia and enter Oral Roberts which allowed the the end. 
the tournament as the highestpoint to count for the Golden "I think Notre Dame had 
seed we possibly can." Eagles. much more fire than we did 
The Irish will play host to the "I think the referees played tonight. Notre Dame really 
Mountaineers focusing on not too much of a part in the match showed up to play tonight. and 
looking over the mountain. tonight in a bad way, especially we didn't,"said Farber. "It was 
Their win last Sunday at Boston that terrible call at the end one of those ugly matches that 

College a few days after a hugeagainst Notre Dame," said Oral you're just glad to win." 
defeat at the hands of Roberts head coach Amy Junior opposite Emily 
Providence put the Irish back Farber. Schiebout, sophomore outside 

on track. One more gives Notre "l think that's just a part of hitter Christi Girton and senior 
Dame a two-game streak theythe game," Notre Dame head middle blocker Lindsay 
can take advantage of in the coach Debbie Brown said. Treadwell all were in double 
quarterfinals of the Big East 
while Greg Velho led the Pridmore were also key in
"Referees do not win or lose a digits on kills and digs, the frrst tournament. 
defense, checking out with his sparking a renewed offense.
match for you. If we do things time this season that the Irish 
"When you're winning, the 
25th-career shutout. "Their stepping up just helpsright early in the match, you have had three double doubles. 
attitude is better. A win tomor­
From an offense that began the team," pointed out Cox.
don't have that crucial call at Treadwell hit .379 for the Irish, 
row gives us two straight Big 
the season relying on fowards "You need a couple of breaks,the end." and added eight assisted ' 
East wins going into the tourna· 
Ryan Cox and Shane Walton to some guys to be hot, [Aris] hasThe match was very even, blocks. 
ment. It would do a lot for our 
get the team on the board, a done that. Even Dustin, he's

taking two hours and 30 min· "I think we played really well · confidence and our 
momen· 
number of other players have really been solid and has been
utes to finish. The Golden together;'' said.Schiebout. "I 
tum." said Murphy. 
stepped up to produce for the providing good services." 
Eagles and Irish were almost think we really gelled. It's just 
Coach Mike Berticelli's squad 
Irish. Murphy and the rest of theidentical in hitting percentage disappointing that we didn't 
certainly has a great deal to 
Aris, recovering from an backfield will be facing aand digs in the match. Oral win.n 
build from. Everything came 
early-season injury, registered Mountaineer defense that hasRoberts held the edge on kills Sophomore transfer Michelle 
together in the 3·0 win against 
two-goal games in the last two been its strength all season.
and assists. The Irish, on the Graham· filled in once again at 
the Eagles. Junior midfielder 
Irish wins. Fellow midfielders Starting the season with theother hand, had fewer service 
Andrew Aris scored his second 
Steven Maio and Dustin
see \'OLLEYBALU page 25 two-goal game of the season see MEN/ page 26 



• vs. Baylor vs. West Virginia Tomorrow, 2:30p.m. ~ Friday, 7:30p.m. Cross Country 


SPORTS 
at Big East Championship 
ATA 
in Boston 

vs. Wisconsin vs. Oral Roberts 
Friday, 10:30 a.m.
•

~ Friday, 5 p.m. Thursday, 7 p.m. GLANCE 
----~ 


NSIDER 

'88 CHAMPIONSHIP IRISH EXCHANGE ROSTERS IRISH INSIGHT THE NATION PAGE2 PAGE3 PAGES PAGE6 PAGE7 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 30, 1998 
ROAD TO THE 
BUILDING A CHAMPION 


'88 CHAMPIONSHIP 
Team speed gives Irish fast track to the title 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Three-hundred -pound offensive linemen pave interstates for running backs. Those boys in the trenches unleash abuse until the overmatched 
defense  cries  "uncle"  and  
succumbs.  
These  descriptions  fit  

smash-mouth football. They define Notre Dame football. 
But ten years ago unbe­lievable team speed allowed the Irish to race to the top of the polls and the national championship. 
After seeing his team's lack of speed get exploited by Alabama in 1986, and Miami in 1987, then-head coach Lou Holtz knew something had to be done. 
His team needed more blazers. Recruiting and a couple of position switches made Notre Dame one of the fastest teams in the nation. 
Notre Dame's success could be measured by stop­watches on the practice field rather than pounds of weight being lifted in the weight room. 
"Whoever once said that speed kills is right," Holtz said. 
If that was the case much of the 1988 championship team could be found on America's Most Wanted. 
Every offensive play for the Irish began with a spark. A man with 4.48 speed in the 40-yard dash began every play -quar­terback Tony Rice. 
Rice had the option to run or give the ball to tailbacks Mark Green and Tony Banks, who ran the 40 in respective times of 4.42 and 4.47. 
As if that weren't enough, Holtz and Rice could go to the air where Ricky Watters and a 5-10 rocket made defensive backs quiver. Raghib "Rocket" Ismail's 
4.28 speed became the top kickoff returner in the nation while Watters gave opposing coaches night­mares. 
"I dreamt about him all week long." then-Air Force 
."coach Fisher DeBerry said of Watters, who returned two punts for touchdowns on the year. "Doggone right he's scary." The Irish didn't only "Shake Down the Thunder," they proved they had some lightning. Teams that used to be quicker than Notre Dame found themselves in the wake of the Irish run­ners. "When you take the top skill players for Notre Dame, I don't know if any school in the country has a faster group," then-Miami coach Jimmy Johnson said. "We don't have that kind of speed." 
Notre Dame's defense may have been the only unit in the country that could run with the Irish offense. 

Defensive backs D'Juan Francisco and Stan Smagala gave the Rocket the best challenges during practice, as they ran the 40 in 4.33 and 4.35 seconds respectively. Cornerback Todd Lyght wasn't far off the pace with a time of 4.41. 
Holtz wanted even more speed in the defensive back­field. In the spring of 1988 he moved Pat Terrell from splint end to free safety. The move paid off, as Terrell made three interceptions and returned one 60 yards for a touchdown in the 31­30 classic win over Miami. 
NFL Draft days in the late '80s and early '90s also showed how valuable speed is. The Chicago Bears selected Green in the fifth round of the 1989 draft. Terrell, Smagala and Francisco were all taken in the 1990 draft. Lyght, Watters and Ismail were all selected in the first four rounds of the 1991 draft and Brooks was selected in the fourth round of the 1992 draft. 
While the 1988 Irish cer­tainly have their place in the mystique and history of Notre Dame football, their style was not made precise­ly from the smash-mouth mold of Notre Dame foot­ball. 

Raghib "Rocket" Ismail headed one of the fastest teams in Notre Dame history. 


I} {jetU-eNirj, /1t:kt Hzza./ 
/Kick off ~ ND Football \ I} Pajia Predicts ~ ~ NOTRE DAME 28 


"< ~ Baylor 9 
We wish Coach Davie, His S ff, and the Team success in rKIQ@Q their 1 paign! S)1£Q lNlrurm~~ !17171~ lJ lJ 7171 Dine-In a at ND Store !171ll ~71!1/J!l
(1827 Bend Ave.) and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 

r-:-----:1 
r-----,

I Gam y I I Lat ~ I 
I I 10 I I I I I I I I I 
L~· 

I I 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted
I 
I II. 
I 
L~_·~ 
Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM 
THE BAYLOR LARIAT








IRISH EXCHANGE 
BAYLOR UNIVERSITY'S INDEPENDENT DAILY 

By BJ ANTEOLA 
Sports Writer for The Baylor Lariat 
A gold wateh stored in a drawer in Dave Hobnrts' houso is kept as a reminder of bnttnr days. Hobnrts recnived that wateh when Notre Dame went to the Orange Bowl in 1995. 
For thrnn ynars, Hobnrts served as the Fighting Irish's oll"nnsive coordinator. and for three ynars Hoberts got to enjoy the constant tasto of winning. 
But whon Hoborts left Notre Dame's football program and its winning tradi­tion to become Baylor's head coach. it wasn't just thn wins that he would soon bn missing. I In also lnft many friends, col­h~agues and players to whom hn had grown close in South Bend. 
Saturday, Hoberts returns to face his formor tnam as tho Baylor Bears (2-5) battln the 16th-ranked Fighting Irish (5­
IJ. 
'Tm t~xcitPd about tlw opportunity to go bal"k," Hoberts said at a Monday press eonfnmnctL "It was an incredible experi­nnt~o for me. Thorn are a lot of people I consider as friends that I hope on sening again and competing against." 
And though the two univBrsities may lutvn many traits in eommon, likll their status as privatn Christian sehools. the rootball programs havo eontimwd to go in opposito dirnctions. One team keeps win­ning while tho other kenps losing. 
In Hobnrts' lirst soason (1 997) with the Bnars. tlwy finislwd with a 2-9 reeord. Notrn Damn. who was also directed by a nnw lwad eoach at thn timn. Bob Davie, 
IRISH INSIDER 

IDITOR: KATHLEEN LOPEZ ASSOCIA!l IDITORS: jOEY CAVA TO, ALLISON KRILLA ASSISTANT fDITOR.'i: ANTHONY BIANCO. BRIAN KESSLER DESIGN: MARK DEROY GRAPHICS: PETE CILELLA COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAlLY 
RECORD: 5-1 A.l'. NATIONAL RANKING: 16 A.P. NATIONAL RANKING: UNRANKED

THE EDGE • 
finished 7-6 and went to a bowl game. 

But Roberts believes Baylor is headed on the right path, even though the score­board doesn't always show it. And he says he tries to imitate his long-time mentor Lou Holtz. 
"Being at Notre Dame let me under­stand the pressure of college football," Hoberts said. "And I saw how Coach Holtz would raise the team's standards. I don't like losing. If you accept it and think it's okay, it's never okay. 
"My job is to raise the bar. raise the standards. get the kids to play a little bit harder, a little bit better, and the winning will come." 
Hoberts says Notre Dame will always have a special placB in his heart. But if the Bears pull off the upset, Hoberts says he won't be heartbroken. 
"Personally, whether you boat Notre Damn or you beat Texas. I'd just as well bnat Texas or Texas A&M. So it isn't any dil'fernnt," Hoberts said. "For the team, you have the opportunity to play someone on NBC, with the nation watching. So as people watch. they'll start saying 'llny, Baylor plays hard.'" 
And though many new faces have been added to the Notn1 Dame roster since Hoborts' departure, several of the players playing key roles for the Irish were recruited by him. Hobcrts says he even rnmembers sitting in some of the players' living rooms. talking to their parents. 
"I try not to be biased (when evaluating the opponents)," Hoberts said. ''I've gone over with tim coaching staff, as honestly as I could, about the personnel and just tried to give them what I remember." 
Hoberts said he plans to give the team a tour of the Notre Dame campus before the game and then prepare for the game again. 
"We're trying to look at the personnel and see what's the best way to win the game. However ugly we play... lets do whatever we need to do to give us a chance to win." 


Quarterbacks -NO Linebackers =No""'. 
Jackson has shown that he possesses all of the tools necessary Experience gives the Irish an edge once again, as the upstart to be a great quarterback-quick feet and a strong arm -Bears bear a sophomore-heavy linebacking corp. Jason with his career-high 270 yards in the air against Army just Jackson leads the team with seven tackles for losses and the latest addition to the highli~ht film. His only weakness boasts and impressive three sacks. But with the Baylor blitz right now seems to be in deciston-making, a definite reflection comes the risk of getting burned. Bobbie Howard leads the of his experience level. Odell James, one of the most deadly Irish in tackles, and Kory Minor has yet to emerge from the option threats and highly touted recruits in Baylor history, has shadow of early injuries to last season's dominance. Bryanthad difficulty passing which has left the door open for Jermaine 
filled in well for the injured Irons, and the senior will be called Alfred. The platoon has combined for nine interceptions in upon to do the same against the Bears. 
seven games.

Running Backs -NO 
Autry Denson was held to 87 yards by the Cadets defense, Baylor's six interceptions and 43 break-ups by playmakersbut the consistency of the ground game is one reason why Sean Armistead, Nikia Codie and Gary Baxter may look the Irish are 5-1. Back-up tailback Darcy Levy is nursing a impressive, but the secondary is still surrendering 17.6 yards sprained ankle, which could give freshman Tony Fisher an per completion and 263.3 yards per game. Safety Rodney opportunity to shine. With three healthy fullbacl<s, Davie's Smith leads the team with 68 tackles, but the Bears have 
toughest decision will be choosing who gets the most time. Bears fullback Derek Lagway showed signs of life with 82 yards 

recorded an interception only once every 47 attempts. The against NC State, and tailback Darrell Bush had a 70-yard TO 
Irish secondary has turned in some ke~ plays, as the run against Kansas, but the team's rushing attack is ranked 7oth emergence of Tony Driver and Deke Cooper puts pressure nationally with a 3.2 yards per carry average. on the veterans to raise their level of play. 
Receivers -NO Special Teams -Baylor 
Bobby Brown finally took his turn in the spotlight, catching three 
Through its first six games, Baylor ranked fourth nationally passes for 64 yards against Army, and Javin Hunter seems poised with a 41.1 net punting average behind the strong foot of to emerge as a deep threat for Notre Dame. Malcolm Johnson and All-Big 12 hopeful Kyle Atteberry. The Bears are known for Joey Getherall add the consistency the Irish receivers have been their kick-blocking ability, having scored two TDs and a lacking. And if that wasn't enough, tight end Jabari Holloway is the safety off blocked or botched punts. Against NC State, the ever-present big-play maker. Four w1deouts have been on the Bear special learners blocked a game-tying field goal in the receiving end of 66 percent of James and Alfred's tosses, with waning seconds. Jim Sanson's kicking has been steady, and Morris Anderson leading the way. Redshirt freshman tight end Hunter Smith is a consistent punter, but his protection has Andrew Obriotti had caught only one pass through the first six .__r been a source of concern. g_ames. 
· '"@
Offensive Line -NO 
Coaching .. Even 
Seniors Kelvin Garmon and Derrick Fletcher anchor a slightly 
Bob Davie and Dave Roberts are familiar foes who coached undersized Baylor line with a few question marks. Redshirt together under Lou Holtz. When the skipper had surgery in freshman Greg Jerman is a mere 273 pounds at quick tackle, 1995, they ran the show in Notre Dame Stadium. But in the and although junior college transfer Chris Watton has stepped midst of a difficult month of scheduling for his Bears, dubbed into the lineup nicely, the experience edge goes to the Irish. The "Bloody October," the second-year coach has even more on mammoth Irish line has provided solid protection for Jackson his mind than Davie. and allowed the running game to become dominant. 
/L,"..QY.![!U " NQ,ml~,,. .. , ,:;. . , .,~, ... ..........,,,,.,.. ,

A promising offense with a weak defense to back it up probably won't get the job done on the road against a 5-1 Notre Dame team. With three strong efforts against ranked teams NC State, Colorado and Texas Tech, the Bears have upset on their minds. The Irish need to score early and often to slam the door on Baylor. The longer the score stays close, the better Baylor's chances. 


-------~--------------~--------~­
page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 


By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In a stadium that throbs with the voices of opinion­ated fans, Irish kicker Jim Sanson has heard the spec­trum of sounds. 
Sanson's ears delighted in the applause after game-win­ning field goals, and have been burned by hisses and boos after nightmarish "wide rights." 
In his third year in the pressure position, Sanson -probably the most celebrated and most criti­cized member of the team -has learned to turn a deaf ear to the fans and listen to himself. 
"You hear it for a second and then you block it out," he said. "The past two years, they've been kind of rough on me. But they have the right to do that; they're fans. I'll take care of my situation and that's all I can worry about right now. I've just got to believe in myself." 
Currently Sanson is converting believ­ers faster than a televangelist. After the last two seasons of a lagging Irish kick­ing game, Sanson's leg seems more trustworthy. 
So far this season, he is 18-20 in PATs and 7-9 (77.8 percent) in field goal attempts, missing only on two long­range shots of more than 45 yards. 
"He's a talented young man and he deserves to have some good things hap­pen to him," head coach Bob Davie said. 
So far this season, he has. 
Two of his successful three-pointers were game-winners that made the dif­ference in Notre Dame's 31-30 victory over Purdue and in last Saturday's 20­17 nailbiter against Army. 
Despite his above average-stats, it was apparent against Army that he still had not gained the confidence of his classmates. With just 1:06 remaining, Sanson stepped onto the field to famil­iar groaning and booing. 
"I heard it," said Sanson, who writes "I believe" on his wrist tape before every game. "I think the crowd wanted us to go for it [on fourth down] and try to get a little closer because they hadn't seen me kick anything from outside [39 yards] ... And I can understand and I think things like that motivated me a lit­tle bit." 

Whatever ignited Sanson has kept him on fire. After nailing a 39-yarder, he topped that with a low, wobbly yet successful, career-best 48-yarder to win the game and win over the crowd. 
But Sanson has heard the cheers before -and he knows they never last long. 
He came into Notre Dame with lofty achievements. Before being thrown into the Irish spotlight, he had earned 
Arizona all-state honors as a high 
school defensive back 
an d 

letter­
ing as a wing­
back, free safety and 
kicker as well as serving as the captain of ·his high school's baseball team. 
In 1996, Sanson wasn't just the new kid on the block; he was also the most popular. Midway through the season opener against Vanderbilt, Sanson made his debut, connecting on 33-and 
32-yard attempts. 

It didn't take long before he 
became the campus hero. As 
time expired against No. 6 
Texas, Sanson nailed a 39­
yarder through the 
uprights for the 27-24 
win. 

In his first 
year, Sanson 
made good on 6 of 9 field goals. Combined with 39 extra points, he tal­lied 57 points on the season. 
But after the heroics in Texas, it wasn't long before Sanson declined from most popu­lar to most picked on. 
"Lots of times in this game, you're just as good as your last kick," assistant coach, Bob Chmiel said. 
Sanson was chastised for missing a 30-yard attempt against Purdue and a 33-yard try against Pittsburgh. He also caught flak for bypassing the posts in an embarrassing 20-17 loss to Air Force. 
The ax came down especially hard on Sanson when he shanked an extra point attempt against USC, allowing the Trojans to stay in the ball game and eventually take the eight-point overtime win. 
"Usually not that many kickers have to kick their freshman year," he said. "They get the time to prepare and to get used to kicking off the grass. It was hard for me my freshman year. You can go anywhere and kick a ball through the uprights, but here it's harder under the pressure." 

Inconsistencies continued to shadow Sanson through his sophomore year, missing kicks just as often as he made them (5-10). 
Yet coaches were careful not to step on Sanson's toes. "You can't belittle your kicker," Chmiel said. "There's a fine line. You can't be too critical." You can't be too lenient either, they discov­ered. 
After miscuing three in last sea­son's three-point loss to Southern Cal, Sanson was booed off of the field and his kicking duties were handed to senior Scott Cengia. 
"I did the best I could. I always worked my hardest," Sanson said. "Probably the mental aspect of the game I wish I would've gotten down more. I was always getting caught up in the game emotionally." 
Last year, he said, it got to the point where the kicking unit reacted like every successful kick was a stroke of luck. 
One of the people Sanson went to for advice and support was Irish punter Hunter Smith. 
"I told Jim that it doesn't matter what the critic says," Smith said, who also acts as the holder for Sanson. "More people are going to point out when you stumble than what you did right. But you have to believe in yourself." 
After the season ended, Sanson decid­
ed it was time to rely on himself. Instead of heading to his home in Scottsdale, Ariz., he stayed at 
Notre Dame where he could practice kicking, go to sum­mer school and strength­
en a torn quadricep. 
"I did that ... because I felt I needed it for 
myself and to prove to every­body I'm going to work hard," he said. 
The overtime has not gone unnoticed as Sanson recovered his starting posi­tion and is in the midst of his most successful season. 
"I think he's improved his work ethic," Smith said. "It was never bad before, but he's learned to work hard­er." 
He may be working harder, but the Friday, October 30, 1998 

biggest difference may be that he has learned to take the game lighter. After talking to some of the top col­lege kickers in the nation, Sanson dis­covered the prescription for his past woes: "You've got to relax and you've got to have fun." 
'Tve been taking the approach this year of just one kick at a time," he said. ''I'm not getting caught up in every­thing, in making this kick or that kick. I'm not remembering past kicks or wor­rying about future kicks." 
Instead of biting his nails or pacing before a kick, Sanson now chit-chats with his teammates about anything except football or he'll simply relax on the bench. He leaves the worrying to everybody 
else. 

"I just try 
to completely mellow out and not worry about it while everyone else is freaking out about it," he said. 

Despite his laid-back attitude, Sanson is still intense on improving. 
He still needs to develop consistency in his long range shots. Before the deep winning kick against Army, he was just 1-3 in his career on attempts beyond 45 yards. 
"I don't think I'm completely there yet," he said. "That's what I'm trying to do every single day is to improve. Unless you're 100 percent every single game, there's obviously something going wrong out there." 
With his new, go-with-the-flow atti­tude, Sanson has developed a realistic perspective on the game. He has even adopted a new creed: "I say to myself, 'Nothing's ever as good as it seems and nothing's ever as bad as it seems."' 
"He's made some key field goals; he's missed some key field goals and he's fought his way through it all," Smith said. "Now he's reaping the benefits." 
Whether Sanson will be remembered as the freshman hero who saved the day against Texas or the player who blundered three kicks against USC is irrelevant to him now. 
"I don't want to be perceived by a specific game," he said. "I know what I will remember; I know what my family will remember; I know what my team­
mates will remember. That's what 
matters to me." 

After his game saver sailed 
through the uprights last week 
and the doubting crowd celebrated, 
Sanson pumped a modest fist into the air. He never expected anything less of himself. 





