
• Scene previews theatre students' upcoming 
• The fragile peace agreement formed Tuesday 
Thursday
performance of"They Dance Really Slow In 
between Israel and Palestine was shaken by grenade 

Jackson." 
attacks in Israel yesterday. 

OCTOBER1, 
Scene • 14-15 
World & Nation • 5 

1998 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 29 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Provost's Office opens tenure system inquiry 
Hy DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 

'("'tudents filling out the TCEs need to know that the forms are J\s tlw acad1)mie world debatns tlw plaen of tenun) J a big part of the process. These things are, in fact, important
in higlwr nducation, Notm Damn qui1)tly proparns to considnr tho issun as wnll. 

about deciding a persons continuation on the faculty. ' 
Tlw Provost's Ol'lic1) rocently began an informal inVI'Stigation of tfW state of l.lw tenure system Carol Mooney. associate provost 
nalionwidn, and thn Faculty Sonato's acadnmic: affairs committPn has plan)d thn tnnurn issun· at the top or its agnnda fill' tlw coming ;u:ademic yoar. 
"Tiwrn is no thought lwrP or doing away with the tlmure systnm, although wn do havn faculty not on till) tenure track," said assoeiatn provost. Carol Mooney of the Provost's Ollice. 
DPimtP ftwlnd by an incrnasn or non-tnnurn track rantlty on campuses across t.hn nation can bn simpli­liPd into two positions. Supporters or the tPnurn sys­tf'lll notn that it protncts academie frnodom by granting fWrmarwnt Pmploynwnt to carefully sdnct­Pd rawlty. Crities argup that tho Wnurn systmn pro­lf't:L'i unproductive farulty mnmbPrs from dismissal and ;u:countability. 
(;rowing Pmploynwnt of non-tnnun) track faculty has intPilSifiPd tho most I"I)I:IHJI round or dnbatn. Tlwsn individuals, lalwiPd pro~ssional spncialists in Notn) Damn's nomnndaturn, arP faculty members dndat·nd ineligiblo to apply for I>Prnuuwnt tnnuro positions. In soml) eaSI)S, thnsn individuals do not hold tlw rPquisitP Ph.D. dngrtlPS to Sllnk tmnu·n. In otlwr rasPs, tlwy lack nitlwr tho pnrsonal dnsire or tlw Uniwrsity's invitation to partidpatP in tnnurn­trark Pmploynwnt. 
Non-tnnum tra,·k farulty an• nmployPd at Notrn Damn and PngagP in a varinty of dutins. including undPrgradwttP instruclitm. 
"!\ lot do not tnach," Moorwy notnd. "Tiwy are PVPrything from high-IPwl lab tPchnidans to clinical faculty in thP law school to CPntnr for Social 
sec DEBATE I page 4 

9-STEP PROCESS FOR GAIN lNG FACULTY 
TENURE  
1  Candidates submit applications  
2  Field experts review scholarship samples  
3  Departmental Committee on Applications and Promotions (CAP) prepares report  
4  CAP makes recommendation on tenure offer  
5  Departmental chairperson make~ -recommendation  
6  Dean of College makes recommendation  
7  23-member Provost's advisory Committee (PAC) evaluates file  
8  Provost reviews the PAC decision and makes a recommendation  
9  University President makes a final decision on whether to offer a tenure appointment to the applicant The Obsetver/Mal1< DeBoy  

Tenure: what it is, how it's granted 
By DEREK BETCHER 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame's tenure system, one of the most important processes to the quality of academic instruction on camp_us, affects studonts daily, albeit indirectly. 
This process shapes the Notre Damo faculty by granting penna­nont appointments to qualified fac­ulty members. This permanence is designed to protect the academic freedoms of tenured faculty. 
Students come into direct con­tact with the tenure process only through the biannual complntion of teacher-course evaluation forms (TCEsl. The most. substantive 
see TENURE I page 4 



~~~hers s~~.!?,?,~,~~y~.!~~~~~~~~~~,~~" ~~~sD~~~~~~ 
A.S~i;tant Nt·w; Editor wn'rn talking about ... we honestly of faculty; you'm counting on them to 
havn 110 dun." do the research." 
requi· re penalty

llespite concerns over a lack of It was acknowlndged, however, that This move comes two weeks aftor d1)tailnd information on tlw issun, !.he llw J\eademie Council debatn would the senate eallod for the issue to be 
Associated Press 

Student Senatn passnd a resolution dnlvP deeply into tho legal and reli-placed on the council's agenda for its last night urging thn J\cadnmie gious irnplieations of adding sexual Oct. 8 meeting. Last night's resolution 
The date wlwn a former boostnr became a 

Council to approve tlw addition of orinntation to the elausn. Some s1ma-is the original version of that bill and 
Notre Dame represontative under NCJ\J\ 

sexual oriPntation to tlw University's tors saw this as rnason to support the eame to the lloor with little warning 
guidelines is critical in determining wh1~ther 

nondiscrimination dausn. m1)asum despitn tho objections raised. as snnaturs hoped to craft a statement the football program fac1~s pnnalties, an NCM 
Tlw body votPd 18-h-2 to in the wake of the announce­
oflicial said Wednesday. 

approvn tlw mnasun1, which ment on Monday that the coun­NCAA director of eni'orcnmnnt Chuck Smrt, 
was oppos11d on stwnral dl would take up the issue. 
who would not discuss details of the ease, said

'WECANNOT DISCRIMINATE AGAINST
grounds, inducting a lack or 
any potential violations bnf'orn such a date information about thn ramilka­PEOPLE BASED ON THEIR SEXUAL ORI-In othnr senate news: involving Kimberly Dunbar would not be the 
tions or surh a ITIOVP. Most • Mmnbers approvod a letter school's responsibility.
ENTATION. THAT'S WHAT THIS IS ALL ABOUT.'
nwmlwrs prnsnnt supportPd thn weleoming former U.S. Senator "Tho institution is only responsible f'or aetivi;
rPsolution as a statPtlll'llt of Bill Bradley to Notre Dame ty of individuals who are its representatives or 
support for I'C(llal rights for SUSIIN Ronmn:~· despite objections over his 
coaches, so if something happened prior to an 

homosPxwtls, howevl'r. l'Ccord of votes supporting abor­
individual bncomiug a reprnsentative, thon the

J>,\N(;/JO/!N 1/!t/.1. SI:~VA'/'OI! tion rights.
"WP rannot discriminatn 
institution is not responsible for that," he said. 

against pnopln basnd on tlwir "We· realize that true educa­Dunbar, 29, has alleged that she gave a f'or­sPxual orinntation," said Pangborn "Wn'ro not making thn dncision, tion can only occur when one is mnr Notre Dame player $5,000 to pay ofT an 
snnalor Susan Hobm·ts. "That's what wn'rn just showing that wn support oxposed to a variety of opiniops and 
agent who threatened to reveal their contact. 

I his is all about." it," said O'Neill senator Kevin ideas and appreciate the experience Slw also told school officials she paid f'or the "Jt. snnms likl' common snnsn," Shannon. that you bring to campus," reads the 
relatives of several players to attend games,agrned Lnwis snnator Sophin Fortin, Director of' Studnnt Activities Joe letter. 

among othnr things.

till~ c;mHlnr Helations (:om mittne chair Cassidy warned the senators against The statement had undergono revi­
She was sentenced to four years in prison

who originally 1:o-wrotn thn resolution acting despite a lack of information sions from its original version which Monday for embezzling more than $1.2 million and prestml.nd it to thn sonatn. and rnlying on morn senior bodies, criticized Bradley's stanen on abor­from h1~r former employer, some of which she 
Othnr snnators urged thnir col­such as tho J\eademic Council, to tion, and some present wanted that 
used to purchase gifts and trips for at least a leaguns to hold ofT until morn could be undnrtake dntailnd examination of criticism to remain. 

dozen current and former Notre Dame play­

IIHtrned about tlw issun, noting that a issuns. "We don't oppose Bradley's being body of theologians and lngal exports "ITo be an oiTective studnnt voice! here, but we would like to see some ors. 
School spokesman Dennis Moore wouldn't 

worn consultod when the University you'vn got to have erildibility. Tlw opposition to his voting record on discuss the details of the allegations regarding
considtJrtHI this move in 1997. only way to have credibility is to do abortion," said Catriona Wilke, co-
contact between a former player and an agent.

"We havcm't lookod into this thor­tho research and talk to your eon­oughly," said Zahm senator Spencer stituonts," said Cassidy. "You've just 
see SENATE I page 4 see DUNBAR I page 4 
page 2 
• INSIOE COLUMN 


Long Week 
It's been a long day in a long week ... long, long, long. 
If that's not a "hook", then I don't know what is. Speaking of long though, I'll tell you one thing that won't be long today-the intro 
Chris Kusek 
to this inside column. 

Assistant Viewpoint Long week, but only 
Editor half complete. What I wanted to speak about today is speech, or lack thereof. I was talking to someone recently who seemed to be upset about the Viewpoint r,ol­umn titled "Year of the Woman: The Further Erosion of American Culture." She had the chance to respond in print, but passed it up. To be fair. though, the column may be on the way-stay tuned. This response is not uncommon under the dome. however. People complain of parietals. dining hall rules, the football team, etc., etc. These are the same people who would never think to speak to residence life, petition the head of the dining hall, or write a thought out criticism of the Irish or its coaching staff. Last week. The Observer ran an editorial complaining of it's operating conditions. Today, The Observer ran a letter to the editor responding to the column. Whether you agree or disagree with it's message, read it. Thought went into it. Tuesday, a column entitled, "Why can I complain?" ran in this space. The writer may like to hang out in trees-, but I do give him credit for speaking. Why not. you know? Some Heserved Book Room girl once wrote a column right here about e-mail forwards. Well, I received a forward recently from a friend of mine. I like it, because it says some­thing. Here it is: Imagine there is a bank that credits your account each morning with $86,400. It car­ries over no balance from day to day. Every evening deletes whatever part of the balance you failed to use during the day. What do you do? Draw out every cent, of course! Each of us has such a bank. Its name is TIME. Every morning,_it credits you with 86,400 seconds. Every night it writes off. as lost, whatever of this you failed to invest to good purpose. It carries over no balance. It allows no overdraft. Each day it opens a new account for you. Each night it burns the remains of the day. If you fail to use the day's deposits. the loss is yours. . There is no going back. There is no draw­ing against the "tomorrow." You must live in the present on today's deposits. Invest it so as to get from it the utmost in health, happiness and success! ­The dock is running. Make the most of today. To realize the value of one year. ask a stu­dent who failed a grade. To realize the value of one month, ask a mother who gave birth to a premature baby. To realize the value of one minute, ask a person who misses a train. To realize the value of one second, ask a person who just avoided an accident. To realize the value of one millisecond, ask the person who won a silver medal in the Olympics. Treasure every moment that you have! And treasure it more because you shared it with someone special, special enough to spend your time. And remember that time waits for no one. Yesterday is history. Today is a gift. That's why it's called the present! 
. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Sarah Dylag  
Tom Enright  Graphics  
Maggy Tinucci  Pete Cilella  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  Noah Amstadter  
Katie Miller  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  John Daily  
Eddie !.lull  
Thursday 
61 39 Friday 61 42 Saturday 65.47 Sunday ~ 70 52 Monday ~ 77 52 


Th.. Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through l'riday t·xn·pt during t·xam <tnd vacation periods. The Observer is a mt·mhcr of du.· AssodJtt:d Prt'ss. AJI reproduction rights are rt:servt:d. 

Thursday, October 1, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Washington receives grant for multiple sclerosis research 
SEATfLE, Wash. 
A $3.5 million grant awarded to the UW Medical Center earlier this month will help establish the nation's first Multiple Sclerosis Research and Training Center. 
The UW currently treats MS patients in the MS clinic. The MS clinic· and the MS Research and Training Center both will be administered by the Depart­ment of Rehabilitation Medicine. 
In addition to the 750 patients UW already treats, the center will be able to add 1.200 patients to take part in a wide range of research studies. Patients will be drawn from the five states that the UW Medical Center serves: Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana and Idaho. Patients from Hawaii will also participate. 
The federal grant, given by the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research. will last five years, after which time the UW must 

Receiving the grant. which is speci­fied for clinical research, is recognition of the quality work the UW School of Medicine has done in recent years, said Dr. George Kraft, professor of rehabili­tation medicine, who will head the new center. 
"Most of the research institutions are involved with immunology. Ours is somewhat different," Kraft said. 
"We've been more involved with improving the care for patients. This grant will allow us to greatly expand our research into the optimum meth­ods of treating people with MS," he said. 
In recent years. the UW's MS clinic has tested new drugs for controlling the flare-ups of MS. 
Studies done at the UW have pin­pointed depression as the most com­mon symptom: one of the new areas of study will be to evaluate dill'erent med­ications to treat depression. Researchers will also be testing new drugs which are not yet approved by the Food and Drug Administration. 
UW researchers will continue to emphasize improving the quality of care for people with MS. They hope to learn more about what environmental factors contribute to the disease. 
MS is caused by the immune system attacking the nerves in the brain and spinal cord. 

• UNIVERSITY Of CALifORNIA-BERKELEY 
Researchers discover new energy wave 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
After observing the most powerful wave of energy ever recorded from beyond the sun, a UC Berkeley researcher joined other scholars in Washington, D.C., yesterday to announce findings suggesting the existence of a new form of star energy. Kevin Hurley, a UC Berkeley physicist and an expert on intense gamma rays, joined researchers from uni­versities around the country to announce the discovery of what may be extremely dense neutron stars. or "magnetars." Hurley and his co-researchers said they discovered the pos­sible existence of a new star energy while conducting an experiment on the satellite Ulysses this August. The wave of energy was actually a burst of radiation from a distant neu­tron star, according to the researchers. Hurley was the first researcher to observe the burst, said UC Berkeley spokesper­son Bob Sanders. The information collected by Hurley and his colleagues during this major energy release confirms the­ories developed several'years ago. 
• PRINCETON UNIVERSITY Endowment drops with market 
PHINCETON, N.J. 
The university's endowment, whieh currently totals $5.5 billion, fell 6.5 percent, about $357 million, during the first two months of the 1999 fiscal year, President of the Princeton University Investment Company (PBINCO) Andrew Golden said. "As financial markets have gone down, (the endowment) has gone down slightly. We have not been immune to the turbulence," Golden said. The recent stock crashes, adding up to a 15 percent loss on the market, made the month of August "the second worst month in the past 50 years," Golden said. Though the environment is unstable, PHINCO's long-term investment policy has not changed. "The policy was formed with rough times in mind," Golden said. "A strength of our plan is the ability to do relatively well in times of crisis." Economics professor Burton Malkiel said the recent negative dips arn not tnrribly significant. "...it is not unexpected for the economy to eorrect itself by falling a little," he said. 

• DUKE UNIVERSITY Prof says clause could harm Clinton 

DUIUIAM, N.C. 
In a pile of videotapes, photographs and papers, the evidence presented by Kenneth Starr about President Bill Clinton's alleged sexual impropriety has come to over­shadow a much smaller document which may ultimately decide Clinton's fate: Article I, Section IV of the Constitution. Partisan votes allegedly decided the release of mueh of the sensitive Lewinsky-related evidence, and Clinton's harshest critics come from the Republican party. But William Van Alstyne, professor of law, says that the processes of impeachment arc not always governed by political motives. Instead, he said impeachment cases depend on specific interpreta1!ions of the law. Although he said the word "misdemeanor" -written in the 18th cen­tury to mean an act that shames or embarrasses a public office -could be applied to the Clinton case, Van Alstyne cautioned lawmakers against applying it without careful consideration. 
• VIRGINIA TECH Athlete accused of firing gun in air 

Bl..ACKSBUHG,Va. 
Kenny llarrell, a sophomore communication studies major, faces charges of possession of a concealed weapon, firing of a weapon, removing a serial number from a weapon and intent to endanger life, limb or prop­erty. "(This isla damn serious crime," said Larry Hinker. associate vicn president for university relations. "llorsing around is one thing, having a .38 caliber and liring it in the air is something else. I hope people will wake up and realize this is dangerous and doesn't belong on a cam­pus." Sergeant Jack Ridinger. of the Tech police, arrest­ed thn 6-foot-2-inch guard at 12:42 a.m. Saturday on Washington Street in front of Cassell Coliseum. Harrell pointed the gun into the air and fired a shot, said Mike Jones, chief of Tech police. Along with legal charges. Harrnll faces an indefinite suspension from school. I Jarrell was suspended for violating rules applying to all Tech students, not just athletes, Hinker said. 
• SCHJTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Oct. 1. 
AccuWeatherr'" forecast for daytime conditions and high ten'1peratures 
H L 

Atlanta  85  60  Columbus 66  3B  Lans•ng  56  34  
• Baltimore 79  44  Dallas  89  67  Miami  91  78  
Q,Q,QA?.QQ ~ Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Vta Assoc1ated Press Graph1csNet  ~ u Pt. Cloudy Cloudy  Boise Boston Casper  80 75 52  49 44 40  Denver Honolulu Jackson  58 87 94  39 74 60  New York 73 Phoenix 94 St. Louts 66  46 69 47  




Thursday, October I, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
·~~========================~ 
Prof wins award for
Network helps SMC grads 
By KATHERINE LEWANDOWSKI Nrws Writer 
Saint Mary's graduatPs may not havP tlw stn~ngth ol' largP numlwrs, but thi)Y nH·­tainly havn tlw advantagP ol' ulumrHw working on their sidP. particularly in the husi­
rrnss dnpartnwrrt. 
Many n~C4\Ill Saint Mary's graduates l'ind llwmselvPs in job situa­tions with othnr Sairrt Mary's alumnae. and many soon-lo-lw-gradu­aling seniors find thn homrsns in alumn<w net­working, inr.lud·ing lhn 1:hancn to makP conrwc­tions in tliP joh world thai arP usually only aiTiliatnd with largnr univnrsilies. 
Th4) Alum nan 
Association at Saint Mary's is tlw oldl'st association for Catholic wonwn 's coiiPgns in th1) United StatPs. This con­trihutns to its strPngth and till' llllllliWr o(' rPSOLIITPS it is abln to providn. 
Among thn rnsmrr·cns avail­able to studl'nts is thn i\hrrnnaP Hnsourct\ NPtwork. wlll'l'l' studPnts can locatl' 

Grant to endow chairs in ethical law 
Spc<ial to Th<· Ol><crvcr 
NolrP l>anw has 1'1\rnivPd a grant of $!i million from thn .lohn P. Murphy Foundation ol' Clnvnland, Ohio to I)IHiow thrl'n l'arulty chairs in tlw law school l'or o.;cholars whosn lParhing and rnsiHtn·h l'lllphasizl' moral and nthical values in law. 
"This gPnnrous gift will have a pro­found niTIH't on tnaehing and scholarship at Notrn DamP Law Srhool." said Edward Malloy. pn)sidPnt of tlw Univnrsity. "Wn an) ronl'id1•nl that l.hl) John P. Murphy r h a i r s w i II s t r" n g t lw n Not r n D a nil' 's alrnady l'onsidPrabll' rnputation as the 
Are You Ready for El Nino's Wicked Little Sister? 

~~-jijJ~ SkJ s~•!ieMclf J 
r 
' 

A Huge Selection of Burton Snowboards & Boots 
~ 
DUTPDST 
~ 
Competitive in every sense. 
VITAL FOR REPRESENTATION OF SAINT MARY'S GRADUATES.' 
alumnae working in their liold and contact thmn. This v a lu a bIn too I can a Is o b I) USI)d by studnnts sneking internship opportunities. 
"Bn4:ausn ol' tlw small sizP of Saint Mary's, alumnae arn vital l'or rnpresnntation ol' Saint Mary's graduali)s," said Mary Ann MPrryrnan. associ­atn prol'nssor ol' accounting. 
BECAUSE OF THE SMALL SIZE OF SAINT MARY'S, ALUMNAE ARE 
Mlltn' ANN Mh'IU!l'MIIN A,·soui\'/1:' 1'/IOFI:'Sson oF ,H:t:oti.V'n.w; 
Exampii)S ol' alumnae who assist graduates inelude Susan (;allaglwr, a partnnr a t Ar t h u r AndI) r s o n w ho l'aeilitatPs n)cruiting, and Lnigh Sarnarzija Sinrra, an Pmploy1w of CNA Insurance who was rncnntly on campus tPiling snniors what lwr com­pany has to ol'l'er. 
Tlw pn~SPIICP ol' alurnnan 
Select Solomon Skis plus great savings on K-2, Rossignol, Volkl & Dynastar skis 
3602 N. Grape Rd. • Mishawaka, IN 46545 • 219·259·1000 
Hours: Monday ·friday 10:00 a.m. ·9:00p.m. • Saturday 10:00 a.m.· 6:00p.m. • Sunday 12:00p.m. ·5:00p.m. 
Check out all our sale items at www.outpostsports.com 
s l a n d a r d lw a r" r i n tlw t e a c h i n g an d scholarship ol' l1\gal l'lhil:s." 
Thl' Murphy Foundation was estab­lislwd by tlw latn John Murphy, chairman of tlw board ol' thP lliglHH\ Company of CIPvnland. Ohio. and a Notre Dame trusl!H~ l'or :~6 years until his death in I1H>9. A native ol' Westboro. Mass., and a ! 4) 12 graduate ol' Notre Dame, Murphy praetiend law in Minneapolis and in Montana bel'orP tlw outbreak of World War I. when hn joinnd thn Army Air Corps. 
After thn war. Murphy practiced law in Cleveland, eventually beeorning president of tho lligbtw Company. In 1928. he was 
rights. r I) s e n t a li v o s an d Sa i n t 
A number ol' company rep­
"The work I did in my disserta­Mary's graduatns will be on 
tion certainly informs the teach­campus to spnak about their 
ing I do," said Wolbrecht, who l'irms at the Showcase of 
teaches a class about political Carners on Nov. 12. 
parties and interest groups and a 
senior snminur tlealing with 
women in politics. 
For more inj(Jrmation ahout 
ln the work, Wolbrecht
this etwnt. students can con­
explains how the Republican
tact the Counseling and 
Party has moved from a general-
C'arl'er /Jet,elopment Center. 
----, 
A Hu~e Selection of Warm Wmter Coats, Pants and Outerwear from Columbia, CB, Obermeyer & niany more 
like (;allaglwr and Sierra in corporations causes tlwm to 
best dissertation in '97 
come to Saint Mary's to recruit. 
By MAGGY TINUCCI Jy supportive position on "There an• many com pa­
News Writer womnn's rights to a largely 
n ins that rnturn to Saint Mary's for graduates 
Christina Wolbrccht, assistant bneause they've had success 
professor of government and with llwm in the past and 
international studies, was love llwir work," said .loycn 
recently citod by the Women and llicks, assistant professor of 
Politics section of the Amel'ican 
marketing  and  Political Science Association  
an:ounting.  (APSA) l'or the best doctoral dis­ 
Among these  com­ sertation for 1997.  
panies  are  Baxtnr  In her dissertation, entitled  
International.  First  "The Politics of Women's Hights:  
Chicago  Bank,  and  Parties, Positions, and Change,  
Crow  Chizek,  a  1952-92," Wolbrecht examines  
rngional accounting  such factors as the revolution in  
firm.  Faculty  mem­ women's social and economic  
bnrs  often  receivn  roles and the cmorgcnce of a  
information  on  job  mass women's movement.  She  
op4~nings  l'r<lln compa­ also discusses changes in the  
ni4~S  that are  looking  party itself, which help to explain  
PXI'.Iusively l'or a  Saint  the 40-year realignment of politi­ 
Mary's graduate.  cal parties' positions on women's  

We've got the gear and clothing at great prices to get you ready for one doozy of a winter. So get into Outpost for the La Nina Ski &Snowboard Sale! 
e Inc In d pres i d n n t oI' tlw Notre D a 111 n Alumni Association, and lw 1'4\ceived an honorary doctor ol' laws dPgren from thn Univnrsity in 19!i2. During his lifetime, hP contributed morn than $6!i0,000 to Notn~ Dame. PI'I)Vious bnndactions to the Univl'rsity from thP Murphy Foundation amount to $1 .f> 11,000 and have funded tlw purchase ol' collections and nxpanded servi1:os in thn Kresge Law Library. 
Tlw Murphy Foundation gmnt is a com­porwnt of Notrn Dame's $767 million "Gennrations" fund-raising campaign. Annmrncnd in May 1997, the campaign is tlw largest endnavor in the history of Catholic highnr education. 

opposing position, while the Democratic Party has moved ln the opposite direetion. 
"We were absolutely thrill!ld to hear that Professor Wolbrecht had won this award. She is a very talented young scholar," said Jim McAdams, chair in the department of government. Wolbrecht's dissertation was chosen from a number of works that were read by leading schol­ars in the field. 
"I was very pleased and very honored to be chosen by people I respect for this award, " said Wolbrecht. 
The APSA award stated that "Wolbrecht's dissertation is, on one level,' an extr(~mely careful and detailed legislative history of women's rights initiatives in the latter half of' the 20th ~~tmtury. On another level, her research uses the shifting positions of the parties on issues related to women as a way to speak to larger issues of party change and change in the national political agenda. This is an ambitious and complex project successfully car­ried out." 

Faculty: new office space not enough 
By MAGGY TINUCCI Nt•ws Writer 
The shortage of office space that continues to plague thn faculty, nspecially junior fae­ulty in thP College ol' Arts and Lcttors, ensures that tho con­struction sites sprinkled aeross campus will eontinue to be present well into the future. 
"It is an acute issun that is being addressed," said Michael IJetlefson, head of tho Faculty Senate, who said that it will take a few years to properly address this issue. 
The eonvnrsion of Grace and Flanrwr llalls l'rom men's dorms to ofl'ice space did not alleviatn the nned for space, aceording to vice prnsidnnt and Associate Provost .Jeffrey Kantor. 
Gracn and FlannBr "were 
never  nxpneted  to  be  
enough," he said.  
What  the  project  did  

aeeomplish was to allow major oiTiees sueh as Caronr and Plaeernnnt to movn out of the basement of thn llesburgh Library and to eonv1~rt that space into ofl'icns l'or junior faculty. 
The Gruen and Flanner pro­jnct was a only "partial solu­tion," aeeording to Kantor. 
While the lac.k of office space remains an important issun, Kantor stresses that this is not "a one-dimensional issue." 
Currently in tlw works are plans for a performing arts cnntnr, an inereasnd numbnr of tnaching labs, as well as a building to housB the Arts and Letters faculty. 
"These arn larg1~ projects that are govnrnnd by need and availability," said Kantor. 
13ncausn of thnse faetors it is impossibln to givn an esti­mated completion datn to any ol' these projnets. 
j News: 1-5323 

sa a 
.... 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 1, 1998 


Tenure 
continued from page 1 

work takes place within departments, colleges and the Office of the Provost in a six-year-long process which includes numerous steps. 
Individuals enter Notre Dame's tenure system when they accept appointment as assistant professors in the teaching-and-research facul­ty. Ordinarily these new hires hold doctorate degrees. 
Employed under two three­year contracts, the new assis­tant professors are expected to excel in three areas: teaching, research and ser­vice. These are the bench­marks that will later be used in the decision to grant or withhold tenure. 
At the beginning of their sixth year, assistant profes­sors may apply to begin a year-long tenure certification process (described in the graphic at left). Assistant professors denied tenure have one year to seek employment elsewhere before they are terminated from the University. Roughly 70 percent of applicants are approved, according to Mooney. 

"The vast majority of cases are clear cut," she added. 
If tenure is rewarded, a faculty member commonly then receives the title of associate professor and com­mensurate salary upgrade. 
A professor granted tenure can be dismissed, but only for serious offenses. 
"Conviction of a felony," "professional incompetence" and "continual serious disre­spect or disregard for the Catholic character of the University" are among the few causes for which Notre Dame may terminate a tenured faculty member, according to the University of Notre Dame Faculty Handbook. 

Dunbar 
continued from page 1 
lie said there is still some dispute over whether the contact happened, and he wasn't sure whether the incident is alleged to have occurred after June 1995, the date the NCAA determined Dunbar became a representative of the universi­ty. 
"It's not necessarily an open and shut mat­ter,"' Moore said. 
Moore also said the trips Dunbar has claimed to have paid for happened before and after June 1995. when she became a representative of the university through her association with the now­defunct Quarterback Club. 
The allegations are the latest in a series of inci­dents involving Dunbar and players. Dunbar, who has a child with former Notre Dame player Jarvis Edison, became the center of a university probu in February after the school found out she had paid the way for several players to attend a Chicago Bulls game and another trip involving herself and two players, athletic director Mike Wadsworth said. 
The university forwarded some of its prelimi­nary findings to the NCAA in March for a ruling, including whether Dunbar qualified as a repre­sentative of the university. Notre Dame also asked the NCAA for interpretations on whether the two trips constituted violations because Dunbar had a personal relationship with several of the players. The five current players involved in the Bulls trip were cleared of any wrongdoing after they donated the cost of their tickets to a charity. 

Wadsworth said school attorneys interviewed Dunbar twice in the past month. revealing sever­al incidents before and after June 1995 that have been forwarded to the NCAA. ,He said none of the incidents involved current players, coaches or administrators associated with the football team. 
"Whether she gives money, a gift, a trip, what­ever it may. be, before June 1995, has no rele­vance to the NCAA because she is not in any way a representative of the university," Wadsworth commented. 
"Now, if there is any evidence that one of our former student-athletes in fact had contact with an agent improperly, then that is a potential vio­lation. But that:s a separate matter," he said. 
Smrt said institutions only face sanctions for player-agent contact if school officials knew about it and allowed an ineligible athlete to play. 
"In the majority of agent situations, the institu­tion didn't know, and there's no reason for it to know in the majority of the situations we deal with," he said. "Most institutions work pretty diligently to keep agents away from their play­ers." 

Senate 
continued from page 1 
president of ND/SMC Right to Life. 
Other senators disagreed on the grounds that a critical let­ter could be interpreted the wrong way. however. 
"If we say that 'you are wrong,' is that a letter of wel­come?" asked Dillon senator Jason Linster. "Bradley knows he's voted against Catholic teaching and he understands that." 
The letter was approved by a vote of 17-9-1. 

Lewis Hall senator Sophie Fortin was among the supporters of a senate resolution urging the Academic • At one point in the meet­Council to approve changes to the non-discrimination clause. The measure passed by a margin of 18-6-2. ing, Fisher senator Phil 
Dittmar and Morrissey senator Ryan Costantini conducted a filibuster to protest the speedy manner in which debate was being carried on. 
"On important debates, I think everyone's voice should be heard," said Dittmar, who was concerned that, on several occasions at the meeting, debate was cut off with sena­tors still waiting to speak. 
Last night is not the first time this has happened this year. with debates at times being held to five minutes in order to end the meetings sooner. 
"We're here to debate issues. We're here to act as the voice of the student body and we're not doing that late-

Debate 
continued from page 1 
Concerns position-holders." 

The largest number of profes­sional specialists teaching at Notre Dame are instructing introductory-level language courses, Mooney reported. 
An advantage to employing professional specialists is that they can be assigned to teach a heavy load of classes -four rather than two, for example. 
This distinction exists because the University expects tenure­track faculty to conduct research and publish work, while no such expectations are placed on those tage to this system is the erosion of the existing tenure plan, a system that professes to protect academic freedoms. 
The campus has witnessed limited public debate of the issue and there are no rep'orted plans for a change in Notre Dame's commitment to the tenure sys­tem. One certainty is that partic­ipants recognize the need to understand the details of the larger nationwide debate before committing to any action on the question. 
"Our interest is to take a good hard look at this tenure issue before the debate is over," said chairman of the Faculty Senate academic affairs committee Greg Sterling, professor of theol­
not seeking tenure. A disadvan-ogy.


Jlt BASKETBALL 

Attention Students: Purchase your . 
men's basketball 
season tickets!! 
On sale now-
Sept. 30, Oct. 1 & 2 
From 8-Spm 
Gate 10 Twce Center Ticket Gttice-
Only $44 




Observer.obsnews.l 
Are you looking for something to do tonight? No plans for the weekend? 
No more excuses! 

Check out the new Notre Dame Events Calendar! 
It's online, it's up-to-date, and it'll do miracles for your social life. 

Brought to you by your Student Activities Office. 

------~---------~ ~~ 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• 
Jeanne weakens over Atlantic 

MIAMI 
.IPannP. downgradPd to a tropical dnprns­sion, was passing through tlw A.zorns in llw A.tlanti!' OcPan on WPdnnsday . .lnannn w<~ak­Pnnd signifirantly, with top sustairwd winds rwar ]!J mph. down from a high of lOS mph a fnw days ago, according to the National llurricarw CPntnr in Miami. Wndnnsday aftnr­noon .Jnanrw's <:Pntnr was about 25 milns south of llorta in tlw A.zor·es and about 95 mil<~s WPst-southwnst of Terreira in the A.zorns. It was moving nast-nortlwast nnar 14 mph. having slownd r.onsiderably from its 21 mph forward spn<HI on Monday. By last night, .Jnanrw was <~xpnrt<~d to los<> tlw circulation and otlwr charactnristics that make it a tropi­r.al wnathnr systnm. fon~castnrs said. 
Starr bill exceeds $40 million 
WA.SIIINCTON 
Tlw cost of tlw indnp<mdent counsel's inv<)S­tigations of' l'rnsident Clinton's Whit<)Water dealings. his affair with Monica Lewinsky and otlwr controversies has toppnd $40 mil­lion. A. govnrnment audit rnport rnleasnd yes­tnrday showed that Kenneth Starr spent $3.9 million during the six-month period ending March 31, thn latest ligures available. That brings Starr's expenses to nearly $33.5 million since hn took over the investigation in 1994, according to Ceneral Ai~counting Ollice audits. Starr's prndecnssor on Whitewater, Hobert Fiskn, s1wnt $fl million, making tlw cost of investigating thn Clinton administration almost $40 million, a numbnr that will climb signilkantly wlwn updated with the past six months activity. Starr has estimatml that lw spnnt at least $4.4 million on the Lewinsky inV<)stigation alonn over thn last ~~ight months. 
Tribe revives ancient ritual 
NEAll BAY. WasiL 
Tlw Makah Indians are about to <)mbark on tlwir lirst gray-whale hunt in 70 years, reviv­ing a tradition that died out when world demand for whale oil brought the animals to tlw brink of extinction. Thern is no one alive among the Makahs who has ever gone whal­ing, but they have !ward stories and songs about it all their lives. and they plan to set out as early as Thursday. Like their ancestors, they will paddle out in a cedar canoe and strike first with a harpoon. But in a departurn from tradition, they will use a .50-caliber rille to kill the whale and at least two motorized boal'i to tow it home. The hunt was approved last year by the lntornational Whaling Commission, which ruled that the 2,000-mem­IH~r tribo could take up to five whales a year from l9<JH through 2000. 

13PM§'4i\WNdWnM 

Dow 
AMEX: 
621.00

]ONES 
-7.35 
Nasdaq: 
1693.84 
-40.21 
NYSE: 
504.47

]J2 
-l.Hl 

S&P 500: 1017.05 Composite

-2.37.90 

Volume:
-237.90 758,900,000 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 

su~u·~~t::n· IU !Sill '~1 rii~U:Uil' ~ iiAIIS I'IUrl 
IHII.CtlMI'  tli:LI  -.'1.04  -l.Ob2.S  h.S.75  
I 11"1 tiiHHII'  l'IHSY  +2.i.4.i  +2.5625  u.s  
I 1\Ul \V\1'\-.M~  C\CO  -4..15  -2.H125  CJI.H\25  
F.\C:MI·(lf< AI WS lill.lt.ri.<U  ESt -~fl,,  -27.1h -5.'14  .J.9.H5 -2 . .i7!\0  10.5625 .'17.625  
I til I·.NI 1'1('11  l.ll  -7.22  -5 ..-\75  67.062  
\.HI WOIU ll COM  \V('tlM  -.ti-1  -I 6H75  4K.H75  
t.IIS Cllltl'  <~liS  .tl,71  --2.500  2.1.25  
INTEL<:Otll'  INTI.  -.I. II  -2.75  H5.75  
CII,\SI MI\Nit  CMI\  -.UW  -1.75  4.1.25  


ASSOCIATED PRESS Tensions in Hebron have been rising land issue had been resolved. 
since the Aug. 20 killing of a settler llowever, Palestinian negotiators said 
IlEBRON rabbi, apparently by a Palestinian mili­yesterday that some differences 
Undercutting the latest U.S. peace tant. remained. Hassan Abdel Rahman, the efforts, an assailant yesterday hurled In a related development, Israel TV's Palestinian representative in two grenades at Israeli troops guarding Channel Two said that Palestinian Washington, said one point of con­a downtown square in the volatile West security forces raided a llamas bomb tention was whether Palestinian police Bank city of Hebron, injuring 11 sol­factory in Hebron on Tuesday, seizing could enter the nature reserve. diers and 11 Palestinians. 640 pounds of explosives and bomb­Secretary of State Madeleine Albright 
Thn attacker was shot in the leg making materials. The report said it and U.S. envoy Dennis Ross are to beforn he vanished into the l'alestinian­was tlw largest l-lamas laboratory return to the region Tuesday to prepare controlled area of the city. The Israeli uncovered. another Mideast summit in army poured reinforcements into Yesterday's violence erupted during Washington in mid-October, Palestinian Hebron and imposed a curfew on tlw Yom Kippur, the holiest day on the negotiators said. area it controls. Jewish calendar, as Israeli troops In other developments yesterday, 
Coming at a time when the United fmforced a blanket closure on the West some 400 Palestinians threw stones at Statos is trying to cnndude agreement Bank and Gaza Strip. Israeli soldiers ncar the West Bank vil­on an Israeli troop withdrawal in the The bloodshed came amid intensive lage of Biddou. Troops fired rubber West Bank, the attack gave a boost to U.S. efforts to broker an agreement on bullets, injuring six Palestinians. Israeli claims that the Palestinian an Israeli troop pullback from 13 per­The clashes erupted after the funeral Authority is not doing enough to pro­cent of the West Bank. Under a com­of a l-lamas activist, Zahran Ibrahim vent uttacks on Israelis. promise, three percent of that land is to Zahran, who was killed Tuesday when 
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin be set aside as a nature reserve in a car rigged with powerful explosives Netanyahu has said he would not hand whieh Israel retains control over secu­blew up in the village of Bcitunia, near over morn West Bank land until the rity. Ram allah. Palestinians rein in militants. Earlier this week, President Clinton Suleiman and Salim Abu Eid, two 
Troops also set up roadblocks around hosted Netanyahu and Palestinian llamas activists who survived the blast, Hebron, barring Palestinians from leav­leader Yasser Arafat separately and denied they were preparing the car for ing or entering the city of 130,000 then in a three-way summit. Israeli and a bombing attack in Israel, Palestinians and 450 Jewish settlers. U.S. ol'lieials were upbeat, saying the Palestinian police said. 
• YUGOSLAVIA 

Massacres target need for peace 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 

GOLUBOVAC 
International pressure grow Wednesday to stop the war in Kosovo follow­ing the grisly discovery of bodies from ono massacm and claims that 13 pcoplo were slain in another killing frenzy. 
Accusing security forces of trying to wipe out ethnic Albanians in. the Yugoslav provinco of Kosovo, Britain called an emergency meet· ing of the U.N. Security Council to condemn the killings. 
The latest allegations ·of' massacres by Serb police and the Yugoslav army came after diplomats, jour­nalists and human rights workers saw as many as 18 mutilated bodios earlier this week in nearby Obrija (Oh-BIWE-ya), including those of women and chil­dren. 
Five miles to the south, residents of Golubovac said Wednesday that Serb forces surrounded a pocket of refugees there last Saturday and singled out the men to kill. 
They said the victims were already buried, but pointed to saueer-sizcd 
p"ools of dried blood and empty cartridges in Jhmt of 
a  fence  where  they  
said the  refugees  were  
shot.  

"They pointed to the men and took them beside my house." said Nairn Hodzaj, a 53-yt·W,r-old farmer in the village about 20 miles west of Kosovo's eapital Pristina. "They shot them all." 
Tho ethnic Albanians' Kosovo Information Center claimed late Wednesday 18 more bodies had been found nearby in the area around Glogovac, showing clear signs of torture and three shot in the back of the head. The claim could not be confirmed, and it was possible it referred to the Golubovac site. 
Britain and Austria called Wednesday fot· an interna­tional investigation into what Austrian Foreign Minister Wolfgang Schuesscl called the "bestial" massaere at Obrija, whieh the St}rbs eall Gornje Obrinje. 
"This was not an act of war. it was plain cold mur· der," British Foreign Secretary Hobin Cook said in calling later for the Security Council meeting. 

0 =
-. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, October I, 1998 
Panel debates Clinton scandal 
By TOM ENRIGHT News Writer 
HeOeeting American society, a panel of Notre Dame professors presented their diverse reactions yesterday to the Clinton scandal. Discussion topics ranged from the religious right's increasing influence to the affair's impact upon current gender relations. 
The panel. entitled "Clinton, Starr, and You" presented sev­eral perspectives on the Clinton scandal from government pro­fessors Sortirios Barber, David Leege and Christina Wolbrecht, and professor of philosophy Paul Weithman. 
"While I don't think that Clinton should be impeached, I do think his behavior was repre­hensible," said Weithman, who believed that the Clinton scandal has not damaged the Democratic party. "We don't look to the President for guid­ance on our moral lives any­more." 
Pointing out that the Clinton issue did not involve as big a cover-up as in the Nixon admin­istration or Reagan's Iran­Contra controversy. Leege pre­sented both the arguments for and against Clinton's impeach­ment. He noted that campaign funding drives politics today and called donations modern day bribes. 
The impeachment process. he argued, would be a diversion from the type of campaign sys­tem developing and would draw attention away from the funding issue. Leege also described the progression of sexual norms in America and related it to the current Clinton situation. 

"We use public rituals to solve certain things," he said. "We don't have conflict over the economy... but we do over sexu­al norms." 
Leege presented the idea that Clinton is taking the blame for the greater problem of marital infidelity among Americans. 
"It is expedient that one man should 'die' for his country," 
'WE DON'T LOOK TO 
THE PRESIDENT FOR GUIDANCE ON OUR 
MORAL LIVFS ANYMORE.' 
PAUL WH!TIIMAN 
1'/IIIN:SSII/111/.-1'11/UJSIII'IIl. 

said Leege, who feels that Clinton is now paying for the sins of society. "We could reas­sure the nation that we've reasserted sexual norms with the impeachment process." he said. 
Weithman supported this idrm and gave a difl"erent perspective about why society could see Clinton as a sacrificial lamb. lie believed that the riso of the reli­gious right has used the scandal as a spokes-movement for its ideals. 
"Is this about lying or tlw moral issues associated with it'!" asked Wolbrecht. who discussed thl! dl'm:ts of th1! Clinton scandal upon polities and described how feminists felt about the issue. 
"This scandal tells us about agenda setting and ... thl) words we use," said Wolbreeht. "Politicians understand tlw power of words." 
Wolbreeht argued that the issue makes clear how unsettlnd women's issues remain today. She noted that society is still not suro where to draw a line between what is and is not acceptable in gender rnlations. 
While womPn seem divided on the Clinton issue. Wolbrllcht said. the women's movement gave rise to the belief that the "personal is political." an idea whieh eould hurt Clinton, 
Barber further asked what constituted an impeachable oll"lmsn and said that a consen­sus seemed to lie betwnnn two extremes. On one side is what Barber calls a "whatever theo­ry," which says that anything is impeachable that a majority of the llousc of Hepresentatives and two-thirds of the U.S. Snnatc feel is inappropriatn. 
The other extreme view is the "smoking gun theory" advanced by Nixon. in which a president cannot undergo impeachment unless he's committed criminally indictable ofl'enses. 
"President Clinton's mistake arguably falls within these cate­gories," Barber said. 
Brothers arrested for '89 murder of parents 
Associated Press 
NOBLESVILLE, Ind. 

Ten years after their parents were shot to death, two broth· ers who took over the family insurance business and had offered a $100,000 J'Oward for the killer's arrest were charged with the crime. 
Brian Sotters, 37, and David 
.Setters, 40, woro taken into custody Tuesday at Creative Underwriters. th<~ family-owned insurance business. The younger brother showed no emotion Wednesday as he was chargnd with two counts of murder and hold without bond. He could face the death penalty. David Setters was released Wednesday on $10,000 bond. lie is charged with two felony counts of assisting a criminal and false informing. He alleged· ly provided his brother a false alibi. Elwood Setters, 60, and Shirley Setters. 57, were found dead in February 1989 in a house they were remodeling in Noblesville. just north of Indianapolis. The father had been shot four times in the head with a .25­caliber pistol that belonged to him. The mother was shot three times in the head and had an ice pick shoved through her eye. "Wo believe Brian is wholly 
and completely innocent of this crime," Brian's girlfriend, Kerry Hinerman. said as she left· the courtroom. 
After the deaths, the couple's children -Brian, David and a third ·son, Doug-offered a $5,000 reward for information that would lead to an arrest. They eventually upped that to $100,000. 
Brian Setters was quoted in local new.spapers at the time pleading for witnesses to come forward with any detail that might help, and some of his friends also put up 500 posters in the area that said, "Murderers, we know who you are." 
Hamilton County Prosecutor Sonia Leerkamp said yesterday that a combination of bits and pieces of information came together for the arrests to be made. 
"There's not a magic piece of evidence that has wrapped this all up," she said. 
Investigators said they reopened the case in 1995 and, after talking to witnesses that had previously been uncoopera­tive, took the caso to the grand jury. 
"I know that it's not going to be the Hasiest case I ever prose· cuted, but I feel confident that we can present a viable case and hopefully obtain convic· tions," Leerkamp said. 

When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-an.d your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 

Thursday, Ocrober I, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
•ITALY • CHILE 
On-line appliances on the way Hillary Clinton visits 
programs and will soon have calls the "internet refrignrator."
Refrigerators, built-in lntnrnet access for With a spendy Pentium II South American peers 

rneipes. microprocnssor and huge hard 
Associated Press bnr of Chile's central bank.
ovens will be Under the brand name drivn, it packs morn computing 
Mrs. Clinton, on a four-day

Ariston Digital. Merloni has power than most homn PCs, 
SANTIAGO trip that will also takn her to

also dnvnloped washing and has separatn compart­
Internet capable Ilillary Hodham Clinton came Uruguay, flew hnm aftnr tour­
mar.hinns, r!d"rignrators, dish­ments for fruit and vegetables. 
to South America to give a ing damagn in Puerto Hieo
Associated Press waslwrs and cooking appli­Thn rofrigerator -unveiled 
boost to women and got a caused by Hurricane Georges.
ances that 1:an communicate Wndnesday at the opnning of 
boost herself from lwr fellow Her day began with a visit to
MILAN with each other -and tho out­thn PC World Expo in 
first ladies of the i\rnerieas. an art museum, whBrn she and
Nnnd an ovnn with lntPrnet side world. Makuhari, east of Tokyo -is 
"I'm new at this job and the other first ladies vir-wed an
acc1~ss'! Ilow about a refrigera­Merloni, Europe's fourth­controlled with a touch panel 
you're a role model for me," exhibit of art creatnd by
tor smart 11nough to knep track largest home appliance produc­monitor in the door or vr.rbally 
one said in a note shfl slipped Chilean children under the
of what's insidn, ston~ rndpns nr, pI an s to u n v ~~ i I t h n now through a built-in microphone. 
to Mrs. Clinton after the U.S. guidanee of professional artists
and makn your gron~ry list? product linn at tlw Smau infor­Thr. company that devflloped 
first lady spoke of the need for from each of the countries rnp­
Iligh-tneh companies in Italy mation and toleeommunications the refrignrator, V-Sync, rec­
more women in leadership resentnd at the conference.
and .Japan aro b11tting you do, show in Milan in October and ommends using it as the com­
roles, said her 1:hief of staff. "What a wonderful idea!" 
or will, in tlw 1war-futun1. start snlling it in thn second half mand center of a wired home 
Melanne Verveer. Mrs. Clinton enthused, her arm
In Italy, Mnrloni of I<)<)9. by hooking it up to similarly 
One after another, they around Chilean !irst lady Marta
f<:lnttrodomestici announcnd a Thn company spent five years equippfld household appliances 
embraced her and shared pri­Larraeches de Frei, who had 
nnw product linn Wndnnsday and about $18 million to devnl­such as telephones, air condi­
vate comments. In public, no sHg,gested the exhibit.
that indudns appliances that op tlw new linn, but says the tioners and televisions. 
one even hinted of President ' The first ladies tousled thB 
can do nvnrything from pre­futuristic appliances will only More than 600 computer­
Clinton's affair with Monica hair of some of the young
vnnting blackouts to surling thn bo a little bit more expnnsive related companies are display­
Lewinsky. artists and chatted with them
NPL than morn conventional items. ing products at the annual com­
Mrs. Clinton, attending an before strolling around the
Tlw "intPilignnt OVI'n" I'VOn Mnanwhiln, a .Japanesn com­puter expo in .Japan, which 
has I'PmotP-control cooking pany has developed what it runs through Saturday. 


"THE BEST FROZEN YOGURT IN SOUTH BEND!" 
CAMPUS SHOPPES I~37 SO. BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND 
271-9540 (2 BLOCKS EAST OF N.D.) 
-------------r--------------r-------------·
50 C 0~ Any Fruit • 50~ OH! 1 50~ OH Your Next Smoothle or Shake 1 I Sll"fo regijkJrorlargecupOI'~o!froten I WaHle Cone•1 
B•N any Frvit Smoolhie or frozf!l Yoourt yogurt or!d re<eive 50 cents olll I ••N ...__ 1o 1
..-IJL
·' • • ~, oregiiiQf or rge wume cone o lnnen yogurt
1


Shake and receive SO< oil. <"AM Pus sHoi'PEs andgtl SOC offi
1 

l'A,\JJ•t·.., "-11111'1'1.., IH.'7 su. ur:ND 1\VE. I cAMPUs suoPPEs 1M n 'it I Ill "I 1•\\'I SUUHI BEND lll.'\7 SO. REND AVE. 'iOldlllll\]) I SOUTHBEND 
Ontr ''*' .oAI!ll plrutrp111"'lvlllrlltll C1•r l•~rnt1 1DfH111Difl (.upo~ Ull\'t 'uod onlf " JUrti(IP""'i lull-tutti I (DI'l Br~t.. tl't Y0£1111 \IOU\. (GtJpon not I Olltr &ood ~nly lt plrlltlpltlnglull-uud 1Cm't lthrnt't Yocurtuam Coupon 
' '· •·'" J~y otlltr olifl \.oh lll•f on11 h!)lrtl 10/JIItS <Jitd ••th JMJ othtr ollrr lah \frn 011ly hp!!tiiD/11198 I not nhd wuh ~nr oth11 offu ioll wwr onlr. !1prm 10/ll/98 -~l•·tlrl 199\ I lJ~ I lrlllrf r1 fo&ull. lid u~'''~hl 199~ I (Jn't Brhr~~ U't Yo1u11. ltd. • topyughti9951Cin'tBrllmh'tYogun,ltd. 
[A true comic original) 
WEdnesday, OdobEr /4, 8:00pm, $25 
His delivery is deadpan. h1s manner sto1c and he's the hottest act to catch today. Steven Wright brings his uniquely funny observations about reality to our stage. An Academy Award w1nner, aregular guest on "The Late Show with David Letterman," "The Tonight Show w1th Jay Lena," and 'Late Night with Conan O'Brien," Steven Wright will surely entertain you with his speci~l brand of adu~ comedy. 
SponsorEd by f07WJRf. 
annual conference of first garden, grenting the profr.s­ladies of the Americas, stuek to sional artists along the way. her designated topic. The U.S. artist, 50-year-old "Empowerment of women is Jesse Trevino of San Antonio, 
as critical for a vibrant democ­who was chosen by a presiden­racy as are issues like trade, tial commission, got an n!Tusive diplomacy and national securi­welcome from Mrs. Clinton. ty," she said. "She gave 
While com-me a hug plaining that and a kiss "women still 
on thn do not hold cheek," he 
'EMPOWERMENT OF 
WOMEN IS AS CRITICAL 

enough posi-said later, lions of FOR A VIBRANT DEMOCRACY laughing. authority, "She's like 
rnsponsibility AS ARE ISSUES LIKE TRADE ••• 
my hero." and power." AND NATIONAL SECURITY.' Trevino she noted said he with approval began draw-that "today a fliLLARY CUNTON ing when he 
growing num­FIRST LADY was four ber of coun­
and stuck tries require a with it even 
minimum after losing level of his right hand in the Vietnam women's participation in local War. "I spent two years in the and national elections." hospital," said Trevino. "I 
Many countries, she said, couldn't walk. And I had to have surpassed the United learn to do everything with my States in increasing the per­left hand." centage of elected representa­Mrs. Clinton also spoke at a tives and other leaders who ceremony for a signing of two are wom1m. international agreements. Onn 
The crowd of several hun­is a U.S.-Chilean scholarship dred seemed to appreciate program to bring up to :;o stu­Mrs. Clinton's willingness to dents from Latin Ameriea and follow through on her commit­institutions. The United States ment to speak here. the fourth will provide $250,000, while first ladies meeting slw has Chile will contribute $125.000. attnnded. The other is a $5 million U.S.­
"For her, it's a very dif'licult finaneed program to bring 
situation. but she is facing i\rneriean city and county man­these faets with great dignity, I agers together with thnir coun­think." said Maria Elena terparts nleswhere in tho 
Ovalle, an economist and mem-AmPrkas. 
Saint Mary:s College and the Lilly Fellows Annual Conference present 
Music, the Creative Process and the Path of Enlightenment 

A Lecture/Performance by 

Pianist Lorin Hollander 
Friday, October 9, 1998 at 8 p.m. Moreau Center • O'Laughlin Auditorium 
This event is free and open to the public. For further invormation call (219) 284-4626. 



Thursday, October 1, 1998 
What will be your statement? To swing a hammer on top of the Berlin Wall and help entrepreneurs break through ... to see a pony on a shirt and help it influence culture ... to move a computer company from dorm room to boardroom. Make a mark with your mind. 
Goldman 
Sachs 

MINDS. \IVIDE OPEN:M www.gs.com 
~----------------------------------------------------------­
--------------.-------~~-~----­
Thursday, October 1, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
• NETHERLANDS 
r------------------------, 
Crashed jet spills chemicals 
Associated Press spokesman, confirmed will launch a parliamentary
84PH41L'I 
Solkatronie sold 480 pounds of inquiry into the accident. 
Mexican Food 115 Dixie Way North US 31 273-1500 

L------------------------~ 
AMSTEHDAM 
An Israeli cargo jet that erashed in Amsterdam six years ago was carrying chemi­cals used to produce the dead­ly sarin nerve gas, a Duteh newspaper reported Wednesday. 
The El AI plane was earrying 50 gallons of the ehemieal idontified as dimothyl mnthylphosphonate when it crashnd into an apartm!)nt block outside Amsterdam in 1992, aecording to the respect­ed national daily NHC Ilandolsblad. 
Citing a freight document, the newspaper said the chemi­cal came from an American company in Pennsylvania and was headed for tiH~ Israel Institute for Biological Besearch in Noss Ziona near Tel Aviv. 
The U.S. company was iden­tified as Solkatronic Chemicals Inc., which was bought this year by Air Products and Chemicals Inc., of Allentown, Pa. 
Stevo Morth. a company 
the chemical to the Israeli gov­ernment. Morth said the Israelis daimed the chemical would be used to test absorp­tion filters. 
A copy of the freight docu­ment was printed on the front page of the Dutch newspaper. which did not say how it acquired the papers. 
El AI spokesman Nahman Klieman said the eargo mani­fests were turned over to Dutch authorites immediately after the aceident. 
lie also said that El AI flies all cargo materials in accor­dance with international regu­lations. 
Ilowever, Klieman would not comment when asked whether chemicals used for making the nerve gas sarin were aboard the plane when it crashed over Amsterdam six years ago. 
Nearly six years after the accident, controversies still surround the plane's cargo, despite repeated investiga­tions. 
Ahead of the report, the Dutch parliament announced it 
Aceording to NHC, the amount of dimethyl methylphosphonate on board was enough to produce up to 594 pounds of the nerve gas. 
The raw material also is used in building materials as a flame retardant. 
Four main eomponents are needed for the production of sarin and three of them were on board the El AI jet. the newspaper said. 
The newspaper said it was not dear whether the burning of these chemicals following the accident was to blame for health complaints by residents near the crash site. 
Th~ Boeing 747-200 erashed into ii.rf apartment complex in southern Amsterdam on Oct. 4, 1992, killing 43 people. Israeli officials said earlier the plane did not carry any dangerous materials. 
A spokesman for the Dutch Transport Ministry declined comment on the report, saying all the details were announced previously. 
Storm hits 

PRINCIPLES"/ SOUND RETIREMENT INVESTING 
RECENTLY, MORNINGSTAR CALLED US CHEAP. 
IT'S NOT EVERY DAY YOUGETACOMPLIMENT LII{ETHAT. 
J\.lllinancial companies charge operating fees [variable annuity] policy, and is even compet­fiand expenses-some mon~ than others. Of itive with the cheapest mutual fund complexes, course, the lower the expenses you p<\V• the better. though it offers far more benefits."' That way. more ofyour money goes where it 
"TIAA-CREF sets the standard in the 
should-towards building a comfi.>rtable future. 
f'mancial services industry." We make low expenses a top priority. 
Of course, expenses are only one factor to 
As the largest retirement system in the consider when you make an investment decision. world 1-a nonprofit company focused exclu­Morningstar also noted our commitment to sively on the linancial needs of the educational "consumer education, service" and "solid and research communities-our expenses are investment performance." Because that can among the lowest in the insurance and mutual make a difference in the long run, too. fund industries? At TIAA-CREE we believe people would 
In fact, TIAA-CREF's 0.310Jil average fund like to spend more in retirement, not on their expenses arc less than half of the expense charges retirement company. Today, over two million of comparable funds:' It's why Morningstar­people count on that approach to help them one of the nation's leading sources of annuity and build a comfortable and secure future. So mutual fund information-says, "At that level can you. To find out more, call us at [TIAA-CREFl is cheaper than any other 1 800 842-2776. We'd consider it a compliment. 
Visit us on the Internet at www.tiaa-cref.org 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
I. Based on $236 billion in a!l.sets under management. 2. ,\'lmularcJ t!..,' p,,m·:, hl.'lll'rlllf'c' Ratin,tJ rlnafv.•t;,, 1998; Lipper Analytical Services, Inc., 
f.t}'J'II'I'·/Jir(,·J,•n• 'Aut~~VItl·,d /Jata 1998 (Quurterly). 3. Of the 4.829 variable annuities tracked by Morningstar, the average fund had total fCes l'omhining ;.,nnu<\1 expenses of0.82% plus an insurance expense uf 1.271 Source: J\1\.orningstar. Inc.. for per·iods ending 7/31198.
!41, 

4. Soun·e: t\\orningstar Principia l'tmitldt lllllluilt~·.,lf.~·l't 4/30198. 
Tlt\A-CREF expen~es are subjel't to l·hangt• anJ are not guaranteed for the fUiurt>. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. TIAA-CREF Individual and lnstitution<tl Services distributes CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Accounr. For more complete information, inc.:luding charges and expenses, call I ROO 842-2776, extension 5509. for the prospectuses. Read them C.llrefully before you invest or send money. 
S. Korea, hurts crops 
Associated Press 
SEOUL, South Korea 
Tropical Storm Yanni killed at least 13 people and left dozens others missing in South Korea, before moving into the Sea of Japan on early this morning, gov­emment offidals said. 
The storm washed away rail lines and highways, llooded vast resid<mtial armLs and inundated 622,000 acres of rice paddies -a quarter of Sottth Korea's total cnlp land. 
"A considerable reduction in rice produetion is feared because the damage was done only a few weeks before harvest was to begin," Lee 
Eun-ho,  an  Agriculture  
Ministry  official,  told  
MBC-'lV.  


Used. rare and 
out-of-print books 
Initial cost of $2.0C• 
Nationally -circu!ated ad 
Success rate of 5C1'/o 
Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six 
• Tuesday through Sunday 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
Are you willing to speak out about sexual assault or rape? Do you have a story to share? Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination would like your help at the Take Back the Night March. Please call Lori at 284-5187. Thank you. 

Thursday, October 1, 1998
page 10 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
student union HAPPENINGS 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Truman Show 10/01. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 1 0/02. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 10/03. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 10/01. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
First Fridays. 1 0/02. Friday. LaFortune Notre Dame Room. 1200PM-0200PM. Co-sponsored by SUB and OMSA. I ~ •-I ' 1 I Friends and free food. 
Hula Dance Workshop. 10/07. Wednesday. LaFortune Ballroom. 0900PM-11 OOPM. 2 instructors teaching hula moves. Absolutely FREE. 
HPC (HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL) 
Manor Unplugged. 10/02. Friday. Morrissey Hall. 0300PM-0545PM. 
Camp Lewis. 10/04-10/09. Sunday-Friday. Lewis Hall. 
Pep Rally. 10/02. Friday. JACC. 0700PM. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL) 
American Chemical Society: General Meeting. 10/01. Thursday. Nieuwland Science Hall. 0730PM. 
NASAND Landscape Exhibition. 10/04. Sunday. Snite Museum of Art. 
CLASS OF 2001 
Concession Stand. 10/03. Saturday. By Alumni Hall. 
Class Dinner with "Who's Yo Daddy." 10/06. Tuesday. LaFortune Ballroom. 0600PM-0800PM. 
CLASS OF 2000 
Class Mass. -10/04. Sunday. Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 0700PM. Fr. Baxter will preside. 
Class Dinner. 10/07. Wednesday. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Saferide. 631-9888. 10/01. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0200AM. 10/02. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0300AM. 10/03. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0300AM. 

0
• 

Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 
34567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567 
} 
l 

1 
... 
Thursday, October I, 199H The Observer • NEWS page II
-----_____________________:__:_-=------------------------~~­
-----------------------~ 
' 
North Korea expels international aid group 
As!.ocio11et.l PrL·ss 
liON<; KON<; 

North Korna has ordnrnd tho (~harity group l>ol'lors Without llord(~rs to slop trnaling sil'k and starving pnopln in tlw S!'!TPtiVP communist nation. forcing t.lw group to pull out in protost. tlw charity said WPdnPsday. 
Tlw l'aris-bas!•d group is joining at !Past two othPr agPIH'i!~S that havP rPrPntlv wilhdrawn staiT from North Kon·a. 'rrustratPd by rnstrirtions on Bordnrs. North Korna'n officials had asknd thn group not to focus on troat­ing tho sick. but to supply raw malt~ri­als and rhnmirals to tho country's pharrnarmrtir.al plants. tho group said. 
how tlwy  can  opnrato and whnro thoy  
ran go.  
In  thn  rasn  of'  Doctors  Without  

"Thny do not ar.knowlodgn tho fact that tlwrn is hugn humanitarian nnnd lwrausn of a :~-y!~ar-long farninn," said Dr. l>ominiquP Laf'ontairw of tho chari­ty. 
The group recontly withdrew 11 of its 13 professionals, ineluding nine doctors. whnn talks with the commu­nist gov(lrnment brokr. down. It said the last two wen~ leaving W!~dnesday. 
Kim Myong Gil, counsellor at North Korea's U.N. mission in New York. said ho was not familiar with the specil'ics of the group's complaints. 
But ho said his govornment provides across to arnas that can rnceivc dona­tions. whilr. somr. regions aro closed for security reasons. 
About a hall'-doznn relief agoncies have b!1en !wiping North KonHt !:ope with the famine that has left tho eoun­try's 23 million peopln largely depon­dent on foreign aid. 
Groups that have left reeently include the Paris-based Doctors of the World and Chesci, an Italian modical and agricultural aid organization. 
Food shortages and a collapsnd eeonorny appear to have left nvr.ry sr1c­tor of the nation's oeonomy in ruins. Hxcept tlw gigantic military that North 

Worm-like tunnels surprise researchers 
WASIIIN(;TON 

Complnx animals may havo Pvolvf'd far earliPr in Earth's history than prr.viously bnli(~ved, a!:!~ording to resr.archors who say tiny tunnPls prnservr~d in rol'k in India wPrn dug by burrow­ing. worm-like creatures more than a billion years ago. 
Tlw tunrwls, about the sizr. of a soda straw. are thought to br~ tho oldost trar.e fossil !~V!~r found and probably wr.ro earv!~d bv worms that livml undnr llH; muck at the bottom of' a shallow sna, Adolph Seilar.hcr of Yale Univr.rsity said Wednesday. 
A rPport on the study is to be publishod Friday in tho journal Science. Multicellular animals madP a dram<Ltic appParanr.e in the fossil record about 540 million y1~ars ago at th!~ beginning of what is eallod the Cambrian poriod. Animals thon dove!­
oped skeletons, shells and mineralized bodies that worn preserved in the fossils. 
Bel'orn that. it has b!H-In believed, life r.onsisted of primitivf:', soft-bodied organ­isms that. left no tra!:e in the fossil rn<~ord. Seionlists gon­erallv believed that lit'e start­ed si1me 4 billion years ago with simplo, singlo·celled creatures that crept slowly­up thr. f:'Volulionary ladder until thnre was an Pxplosion or new. complex lifo forms during the Cambrian. 
Hut Sniladwr. a professor emeritus at the University of Tubingen in Germany, said that dis!~ovcry o!' tho worm tunnels in India shows that there were multieellular ani­mals, with complicated and intrkato lifestyles, more than a half-billion years before the Cambrian. 
"This mr~ans that th11 birth of multieellular animals was at least twice as long ago as we thought," he said. "It means that animals have a much longer history that we once bclioved." 
The announeement, made at a German news confer­nneo, mnt with immediate skepticism among some pale­ontologists. 
"It this were true, it would bo very important," said Bruce Runnegar. a UCLA paleontologist. "I would like to see ovidoncf) for animals l billion years old. But I don't think this discovery repre­sents the final, unequivocul proof." 
Seilaeher and his col­leagues found the tunnels, now eroded to mere mean­dering grooves, in sandstone in north!·lrn India. The ror.k was formed from sand that once was the floor of a shal~ low sea. Seilacher said he bolievos the worm-like crea­tures lived in the sand and fed on a mat or decaying organic matter that coated the sea floor. The organic matter, he said, probably was the bodies of microor­ganisms and algae that lived in the water, died and sank to the bottom. 
Seilacher said the path of 
the tunnels seem to purpose­
tv I{Jiiow th11 eontours of the 
sea 11oor, as if the animals 
were feeding from below on 
the organic debris. Some of 
thr-tunnels have branches. 
he said, suggesting that the 
animals sometimes dug for· 
ward and then backed out to 
take a new burrowing path. 
This. he said, suggests a 
complex life form that had 
norves, instincts and senses. 
The shape of the tunnels. 
said Seilacher, suggests the 
animals moved by a wavelike 
action and could have been 
coated with a mucous that 
eased the passage through 
the sand. 
Seilucher said the sand 
containing the tunnels hard­
ened over time to become 
rock and this preserved the 
impressions of the tunnels. In 
recent geologic times. the 
rock has been lifted up and 
layers eroded away, reveal­
ing the tunm)'ls as grooves in .the soft stone. ­
Korea maintains. Two years of flood­ing and a drought have devastalt~d thr. !:ountry's ine!Tir.ient statr~-run farming system. 
Doetors Without Borders had opnrat­ed health centers in four provinees north of tho capital. Pyongyang, pro­viding basic medical equipment and medicine, and helping to train loeal doctors and health workers. The group also said it served more than 15.000 children at 64 feeding centers. 
Lafontaine described u grim sr.ene in North Korea. whern he said hospitals are so ill-equippod that abortions and appendectomies an~ porformed with­out antiseptics. anesthesia or <wen gloves. Incisions arc made with ordi­nary scissors. he said. 
The international Bed Cross is r.on­linuing its work North Korea, said Enkas Chau, a Hed Cross international relief serviee offir.er bas!ld in Hong Kong. lie said the organization has been able to cover its target areas across the country because of its work­ing relationship with tho North Korean Heel Cross. 
In Home. Tom Shortlcy, of the World Food Program. said the situation in North Korea was diiTir.ult but gradual­ly improving, and he hopnd Doctors Without Borders would roturn. 
"I think from our perspective -and we've always approar.hed the r.hildren as our top priority -you have to koep engaged, you have to keep pressing the authorities for access," he said. 


ree 
orum 


Your opportunity to lear11 more about: 
•lnvesttnent Barzkir1g •Asset Management •C,o1rzrnercial Banking •lr15Ltrance 
•Careers for Busitzess arzct Nor1-Bz1sit1ess Majors 
Wednesday, October 7th, 1998 College of Business Administration 3:00-10.:00 pm 
Ope11 to all Students 
Dinner 1'ickets $5 On Sale: September 28th­October 2nd COBA 102 and O'Shaughnessy 
Advance Purchase Necessary 
For n1ore inforrnation call: Professor john Affleck-Graves at 631-6370 

-~-~-~--­
-~--~­

VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, October I, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks. MANAGING EDITOR BUSINEsS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

N~'WS EDITOR. .. ........... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER.. .. ...... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER .......... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR .................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .. ..... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS..... ... .. ...... Sarah Oylag CONTROLLER... .........Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR. .. ........... Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ....................... Kevin Oalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the studems of dle University ofNorre Dame du L1c and 
Saim Mary's College. Ir does nor ncces.~arily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is 
reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor~in~Chief, Managing Ediwr, A~sistanr tyt~ry'}gi.ng Editor and depanment editors. Commcmaries, lencrs and 
columns presenr the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Obse!Ver. Viewpoint space is available to all 
members of rhe Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions threugh letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 63!-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Yiewpoim.l @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Managet/Genetallnformation 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews. 1 @nd.edu 
• fOR A Mom: JUST AND HUMANE WcmUJ 
Seek Justice, Give Hope and Get Dancing Lessons from De Witt 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
ON& PAY 900N, yO(J MAY11/AY£ UP 7V FINP 7HAT 7H£ PRE!S/1?13NT 
a: me UN!lWS'TJfll!SHA5 EJE£N f0/03[) FROM CJFRC£ FOR 'M501/3 {)fff3Nfit5 OPt.YIN6A!JOUTHISSO­CIAL.. L..lf/3/NHATW YOU 711/NK 
H!SlORYMU.MAK& OFT'NATr 
"Morals. straight teeth. and four years of college." 
The first time my father recited those words to me, I was getting fitted for braces. It was his and my mother's "mantra," the promise they had made to their children. At the time the most important part of the promise was the straight teeth, the morals being too vague and the four years of college too distant for my 11 years to appreciate. 
Seven years later, the time came for me to choose my college. Notre Dame was my first choice. My brother was a student here and would come home with stories of tailgates, road trips and SYRs. I loved football and thought I had some pretty solid dance moves, so I felt Notre Dame was a good match for me. A few months later, I received the news for which I had been waiting. I was going to Notre Dame. 
When I began my freshmen year, the formerly ambiguous subject of "morals" was now a topic of discussion in two of my classes. As I took my introductory courses in theology and philosophy, I realized that my parents had at some point instilled morals in me. While they were never wrapped in ribbon and placed under the Christmas tree, my par­ents had given me the strength and courage to recognize the distinction between right and wrong. More impor­tantly, my parents had taught me that recognition of what is right and what is wrong was not enough. If something was wrong, you had to work for change. 
It was at that time that I became more involved in service projects and student life. While I eventually served as a Hall President, my most rewarding experi­ences came not on campus, but from the Northeast Neighborhood, an area 100 yards south of campus. During a course I participated in entitled, "Theology and Community Service," I took part in a pro­gram in which we were paired with "shut-in" senior citizens in the neighbor­hood. My partner was a 98-year-old man named DeWitt. Each time I visited him, he would greet me at the door dressed with a bow tie and his lucky shirt. Inevitably he'd ask me to dance; claiming he needed the practice in case a lady would catch his eye. We'd do a quick dance to the Glenn Miller Orchestra's Pennsylvania 6-5000 and then chat about South Bend politicians. As the visits con­tinued, DeWitt gave me much more than an appreciation for big band music and then-Mayor Joe Kernan. DeWitt was also sensitive to the needs of his neighbors. He read letters for the 88-year-old next door. He served lunch every day at the Northeast Neighborhood Center for, as he would call them, -/<' *.Jr "the old folks." 
:»t 1' *~ 
DeWitt was a 

*~t~ -t * 
man who not only talked 

,k .k***..¥
about serving 

others, but .; ,t :*,; *v. lived his words. 
My senior *****~ 
year I con­tinued to visit DeWitt and served as the Service Learning Coordinator for the Northeast Neighborhood through the Center for Social Concerns. It was my job to recruit Notre Dame students to paint homes, clean up parks, mentor children and visit senior citizens. While some of the large­scale projects received more attention both on campus and in the media, the senior citizen visitation project was clos­est to my heart. I had learned through my relationship with DeWitt that serving others could not simply be an extra-cur­ricular activity, it had to be an integral part of my life. 
My education and experiences at Notre Dame prepared me for the position I took following graduation. I spent a year working in Chicago at The Children's Place Association. The Children's Place is the Midwest's only residential center for the treatment of AIDS-affected children. I watched as friends and classmates worked as accountants and consultants during the day and volunteered at the Homeless Hotline, Catholic Charities and AIDS Ministries in the evening. My friends and I struggled with integrating 
our commitment to social justice into our career plans and goals. 
A!ter a year at The Children's Place, l real­
ized that I needed to 
continue my educa­
tion. While 
I 
could rock AIDS­affect­
ed 
babies to sleep at night or 

provide after-school programming for toddlers, I rec­ognized that I would 
. be able to affect the lives of more individuals if I worked to change underlying structures and polieies. I chose to enter Notre Dame Law School to prepare me to work as an advocate for social justice. 
Although many members of the admin­istration, faculty, staff and student body of Notre Dame Law School support work­ing for social change, I worry that the financial burden of law school will limit my ability to work for the public interest. 
Many of my classmates feel the same way, and I know we will continue to struggle with how to integrate our desire to work for social change with jobs, fami­lies and other commitments. 
As the Assistant Rector of McGlinn Hall, residents have asked me similar ques­tions. First year students have shared with me that they refrain from participat­ing in service activities for fear of acade­mic time constraints. I appreciate and understand their concerns but hope they are not waiting for more free time to get involved. As I have learned, time con­straints do not lessen after graduation. 
I have also spoken with a number of McGlinn residents who do take the time to work in the community. I see their excitement when they return from a day of tutoring or an evening of sharing at a nursing home. Most importantly, I see how the upperclassmen's compassion and commitment to service affects the first year students. I am witnessing the formation of a new generation of Notre Dame students who will leave the cam­pus, leave South Bend and will continue a tradition of service and commitment to social change. I hope that these students will continue to integrate the challenge of working for social justice into their lives ~regardless of their chosen professions. 
I am grateful for the gifts given to me by my parents. friends and Notre Dame, but I know theses gifts must be shared, nurtured, and employed. To show my appreciation I have made a promise to myself, 
"Seek justice, work for change, and get dancing lessons for DeWitt." 

Karen DuBay is a 1995 graduate of Notre Dame and is currently a third year Notre Dame Law School student. For A More Just And Humane World is a bi­weekly column sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofthe Center for Social Concerns or The Observer . 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Nothing is funnier than unhappiness.' 
-Samuel Beckett 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, October I, 1998 ------------------osstRvER ----------------------------------------------page 13 
• WE lEARNED MORE FROM ATHREE MINUTE RECORD, BABY 
Learning about Our Lives for the First Time Isn't Easy 
I low did this journey begin? I suppos11 it1)(1gan orw lazy day in eighth gradn wlwn I had justlinished watching Pump Up the Volunw; I took Christian Slater's 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum 

role as tlw disall'nctnd grallili artist a tad 
too seriously. 
I whippml out a can of gn)nn paint and sonw brushes and attacked my bedroom walls. I lwgan with T.S. Eliot. "Wn shall not cease from exploration," I painted "and th11 111HI of all our 11xploring willlm to arrive wlwrn we startml and know tho place for tlw lirsl limn." So thorn I was, a little travnlnr beginning in my sncond­slory I'Oom. the world ripe and wailing outsidl) my door. Then it's Spring of I1J9H; my fn)shman year. I have caught llw bug. Th11 liwnr washes over mn. My LIH1S begin to itch. I don't know exactly why or how or wlwrn to but every bone in my body rallies with rostl11ssness and I know I must go. There arn things I must so11; peoplo I muslJll()Ol; foods I must tasto. So I begin to search. I lind Namibia. 
Now it's a dewy Thursday morning in late August. I1J1JH. Bnforn I arrive in !\l'rim I will say goodby1) to the United Stall's in tlw most lilting way; a roadtrip. My older sistor, Elisaboth. and I wake lmlim) dawn to cram our suitcases and a roolm· into tlw back of her old. blu11 Subaru. In two days we will drive from Colorado to Kentucky where my sister willlw working back in the green, green hills as a midwife and I will stay with friends. 
ller car is pitiful. but it moves faster than my mountain bike, so hnre I am, riding shotgun. She calls it the 'Pnacl'mobile.' Indeed, thn soll1 bumper sticker commands "CHI\ATE PEACE." I lPII her that I don't think I'm rightoous Pnough to drive this subaru as my lane changPs tend to li1ster mm·n shouted obSI'PniliPs than brotherhood. Thorn is a tiny little fan atlarlwd to the dashboard and a tapP player rnsling on tlw parking break. Tho Peacm1wbilo cilwours tapes. The Pnacmnobiln is too onvironm1mtally and n1:onomirally consdous to have an air l'onditionnr. Som1)wlwrn in Kansas, in llw J(U dngnw. hl\at. tlw Peacnmobiln almost kills mP. WI' fn•qtwnt various trurk stops that sell allmannnr ofdaily dPvotionals (including one advertising tlw "Christian Woman's Weight Loss Plan." hmm... l and I>oritos products so that. I ran gPt a wnt pile 1_lf paper towels and lay tlwm all ovl'r my steaming body. 
Wn turn tlw tapP play1•r all tlw way up but still can't managt> to !war our mix­tapes. All f(Jur windows an• down, vari­ous undi'I.Prmilwd (and most. likl'ly nssl'n­ticd )car parts an• jingling arou1Hi somn­wlwrn and th1• I'Part>mohill' sounds as though it's going to lakP llight or collapsn into a l.hollsalul r11sly pil'rns as soon as WI' hit (,II. It's a J-.:araoke party on 1-70. Wn play lh1• songs that we already know llw words to: Indigo (;iris . .Joni Mitdwll and a litl.ll' Trihn Callml Qunst, siJH:e the singPrs voirns an• indistinguishable ahove the l'al"ophony. 
On day two WP find ourselves stranded on tlw shouldPr of' a Lousiville highway. Wn arn at tho mnrcy of the sweaty man, dad only in cutoffs and gold chains, who olli)rs us a lift in the taxi he's taking. We arn stuck in traflie-a bonding cxperi­nnee. Sweaty man is very angry at the world. lie wants our poor grandmother cabbin to driv11 on the shoulder so wn can take the nnxt exit. he's like the mad hat­ter, running late for a vnry important date. 
Unfortunately a smn.i is in our way. Sweaty man asks me to pass him his brinl\:ase from the backseat so that he can got out his "lasnr gun." He tells my sistnr and I. fresh from tho overheatnd Peacmnobile, that lw knows how to kill a man with his barn hands. My sister pinchns my log. lin jumps out of the cab and runs barefoot down the highway to when) tlw evil semi is blocking our nscapn. We can sen his little red silhou­ette jumping up and down, yelling and· bning so vnry manly. The semi swerves at him. lin runs back to tho car. lie asks me if' f want to marry him. I say no. He asks 11111 if' I want to got a beer. While I contmnplate this sterling oll'er he dnmands that wn must lake the next exit so that hn can get a tank or a helicopter from the army base thern. 
"That's the ·ticket," he says, with a lot of swearing. "I need a helicopter so I can land on that !truck driver!." Yes, trallic nnf'orcement through armed vehides, I how to forgive. Then the two old friends gig­gle and shout in Damara. I hear 'Monika' and 'Clentun.' Evelydia switches back to English to tell me a story. She makes my mother tongue sound like a lullaby. Each syl­lable soothes me. She is telling a story about Jesus and how he knew that everyone was boyfriend or girlfriend with everyone and how those without fault could cast the first stone. 

IIer expression soft­ens, her flying hands are· now gathernd in her lap. I sit. I listen. Evelydia wants to talk about the transforma­tion of truth telling and the liberation of forgive­ness. When it comes from tho mouth of ari old, black Namibian 
woman who has endured apartheid and still believes, I am compelled to listen. I am humbled. Clinton bores us after a while. Goodness, these wise women know, is the true mys­tnry, ever generative, ever new. 
"When I look at the sunset I say WOOH! What a wonderful world God has created us," Evelydia says, "I must leave the house and go to the field to see the beau­tiful sunset in Namibia." 
"But don't go th1~ field alone" she adds to me with a stern nod . 
So here I am. I have hurtled myself through every inch of time and space. And it's good to be here. We m·e asking discomforting questions; essential ques­tions about race and identity and culture and we are making the journey. Please come with me. 
It's true. We travel and travel and travel to arrive where we started. And in all the exploring, I hope, my eyesight will grow keennr from so much startling new­ness so that I may arrive where I started, at that blessing table, and know thn place for the first time. 
Mary Margaret Cecilia Nussbaum is a sophomore PLS major studying in Namibia through the Center for Global Education. She may be reached at cgest@iafrica. com. na. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
see the dream. Yikes. We thank the cab­bin and our mother who is somewhere in Colorado praying for us whnn we get droppnd oil' at the next gas station. I hide bnhind the potato chips until sweaty man gives up on mn and leaves. Our tow truck driver is a chapter of his own. One wnnk later I !nave Kentucky rested and anxious for thn semnster stretching befi1rn nw in purn possibility. 
On tlw !light !'rom New York to .Johannosburgh, I am thankful that no onn around me speaks English. I have much time to think. to read. to fall in and out of' litf'ul drmuns. In the middle of tho night, thn voice of our fi"inndly flight allnndant announcns that we am stop­ping in Sal to refuel. In my sleepy stupor I think that she says "Seoul" and. "good­ness," I muse. "Korea seems a little out of tlw way." 
So here I am. I've been living in Windhonk, Namibia, fill" over two weeks now. The land is a lonesome sort of lmautiful. The history is heartbreaking. Every hot day here unfolds in mystery. Everyday unfolds in gmcn. I'm sitting under a roof made of plywood and water-stained cardboard. I'm chatting over rose tea and mosquitoes with two older Namibian women at the Khom~s Women in Development Center, where I have an internship, in one of the dty's poorest areas. These mothers are wnathernd and strong. Albertina is a llernro. Evelydia is Damara. They are employnd at the center to teach sewing and batic. Their bodies are the rounded shapes of fertility and ofjoy. Their hands arc rough. I do not know why they are so kind to me, the lillie American girl, who doesn't know how to sew. 
Our conversation is half in English and half in Damara, their mother tongue. Damara is one ofseveral 'dick' lan­guagns and contains four distinct clicks. When spoken it is all stacatto and danc­ing, like birds chirping or firnworks crackling. Evelydia speaks a staggering eight languages. She has never gonn to high school. They want to know what I think about Prince Charles and President Bill. My own inability to speak another tongue keeps me from expounding on sexual politics, perjury. the ofTice of the President and the intricate weave of promises and principles that our judieial system is built upon. For now, I must lis­ten. Albertina doesn't want Charles to marry Camilla. "She's too old," she says, !lashing a three-toothed smile. Evelydia likes Clinton. She likes what he did in the Middle East. She's a Christian, she says, 
and as such she knows 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Observer Move toSDH Truly a Tragedy 
I could not agre11 more that the move of campus publications to SDII is the worst thing to happen to ND since the resignation of Lou lloltz. 
For the Administration to move The Observer to this God-forsaken loca­tion is absolutely ridiculous and bor­derline stupid. And what terrific journalistic acumen for the editorial board to respond in like manner! 
How can the Administration expect The Observer to continue to provide us with a good daily paper if it is in such an out-of -the-way place? What would the student body do without all three comic strips and a crossword puzzle to stimulate brain activity? And how can we live without the Wednesday SMC feature, which for some of' us is the only reason to get out of bed on Monday morning? Most importantly (as the editorial points out), the news section will not be able to obtain any information without the constant llow of tips from faculty and students whose phones and e-mail accounts are simultaneously malfunc­tioning. What if they actually pass the resolution to lnt us bring back­packs into SDH and we find out a day late? Are we supposnd to take this sitting down? 
The editorial also suggests that if The Observer can't have the third floor of LaFortune, then Heekers should, so that those of us who live on North or Mod Quad-or, for that matter, any students who no longer want to use their legs-don't feel discriminated against. This is an excellent idea. After all. South Quad already has the Hock, half a golf course. and the flag pole -why should they get social space, too? 
In faet, I think that in fairm1ss to residents of all quads, we should move all of the important buildings on campus to thn centrally-located third lloor of Lafortunn. The Library, for starters, would bn of more usn to morn peopln if it were moved to the exact center of campus. Sure you can study at LaFortune, but what if you want to check out books? Don't tell me the Administration expects us to walk all the way across North Quad! What do they think this is, a pedestri­an campus'? ­
And what about the Stadium? The band should iwt have to march 1ill the way from Bond Hall to the Stadium six tir111~s a year; nor should drunken alumni be Pxp'ectnd to stagger thnre f'mm the far-off bookstore. Why should the Administration force any­one to walk anywhere on football weekends, when we could easily build a new stadium/ bookstore/ JACC/ tail­gating complex right in the center of campus? But instead. they fund the refurbishing of thn Administration Building. I may be only a freshman, but I can recognize oppression by the proverbial Man when I see it! 
So. on behalf of the entire student body, thanks to the editorial board for standing up and showing the Administration that we students are not apathetic when it comes to get­ting whatever makns our livns morn convenient. 
Katie Freddoso Freshman, Brecn-l'hillips !!all September 30, 1998 

----:----­
~-,-,...---~-.......,---------­
c 
s 
pagel4------------------------------------------------OTHE Thursday, October 1, 1998
BSERVER 
THE 
RLD I 
ND Theatre students shine in 'fhey Dance Really Slow In Jadson' 
By JULIA GILLESPIE 
Scene Copy Editor 

Do you ever feel trapped in the Notre Dame exis­tence of monotonous uniformity, where the majori­ty of students seem carefree and content in a world oblivious to the harsh realities beyond campus, where people are not graeeed with as many fortu­nate opportunities as our education allows us? 
The upcoming play "They Dance Heally Slow in .Jackson" forces students to think beyond long lines at tho South Dining Hall and hell weeks full of tests and papers. 
The performances arc Oct. 14 and 15 at 7 p.m., at Washington Hall in the Lab Theater. Admission is free and the show lasts about two hours. 
Senior theater major Hicky Hamon directs the play "They Dance Heally Slow In Jackson." This is the second play that he will direct through Notre Dame. 
"I like to d1wiate from traditional Notre Dame themes and conservative issues, beeause I want to educate people on campus of alternative and diverse lifestyles beyond campus that others must face daily," said Hamon. 
Students at Hanover College in Indiana first per­formed this play on their campus. but since then it has not been performed often. 
The play portrays the struggles of a disabled young woman, Elizabeth Willow, who suffers from paralysis of the waist down. A talented freshman, Maura Malloy, debuts in this powerful role as the lr.ading lady. 
"This compelling play asks its audience to stop and think about people different from themselves and how their attitudes and reactions toward them affects those individuals," Malloy said. 
The character Elizabeth docs not feel confident in herself because adults and children in her work­ing elass town of Jackson, Indiana discriminate against her and do not take the time to understand her disability. Even her parents detach themselves from Elizabeth, who they rder to as "special." This further d1~epens her intense feelings of isola­
'THIS COMPELLING PLAY ASKS ITS 
AUDIENCE TO STOP AND THINK 
ABOUT PEOPLE DIFFERENT FROM THEM­
SELVES." 
MAUl/A MALLOY 
tion. 

"The peop·tc in Elizabeth's life do not trust her to develop her individuality because they wrongly feel her handicap overpowers her," said Hamon. 
The stereotypes people share of Elizabeth limit her amount of freedom and detract from her image of self'. 
Although she suffers from a disability, she pos­sesses many gifts and talents as a bright and deter­mined young woman with goals for her future. 
The play traces her development from tlw ages of seven, 15, 18 and 24. 
"They Dance Healy! Slow in Jackson" deals with how the six other characl!Hs in the play react toward Elizabeth's disability and how this makes her feel. 
Notre Dame students performing in this play include Luke Brennan, Hache! Jones and Hob Sudduth -all of these students are familiar to Notre Dame theatre. Greta Zandstra of Saint Mary's College is also Wflll-known in campus plays. Freshman Jared Marx will perform for his l"irst time at Notre Dame in this play. 
The action of the play unfolds on stage, which the crew designed as Elizabeth's bedroom, as she fights to define herself as an independent woman. It rests on a three-foot platform, which ElizabBth always speaks from. The steps leading up to the platform symbolically separate her from other members of society in her small town. 
The small size of the Lab Theater enhances the emotional and dramatic mood of tlw performance because tlw east sharns a c:loseness with audience. This provides a more intimate feeling as audience members experience what Malloy calls "a disturb­ing reality check." 
Students, faculty and other memb1~rs of the Notre Dame community may 1mjoy the performance of the girted east and crew of "They Dance Heally Slow in Jackson" and increase their understanding of the impact of discrimination on individuals, while cam­pus groups simultaneously promote awareness of the handicapped. 

PlAY INFORMATION 'IIlEYDANCE llFAUX SLOWINJACKSON' 
Dates: Wednesday, Oct. 14 & Thursday, 0ct. 15h 
Times: 7:30 P.M. 
Location: Lab Theater, Washington ' Hall 
Tickets: Free Admission 

UPCOMING PlAYS FROM ND THEATRE 
-''Three Tall Women''-November 6 & 7 Student Directed by Elaine Bonifield 
-"Getting Wrecked"-November 18-22 Written by ND graduate Christina Gurman 
-"Angels' Cradle"·-February 10-13 By Theater Grottesco 
-"School for Scandal" -April 14-18 
-Student Projects shown at the end of each semester. 
-

Thursday, October I, I99H The Observer· CSC PAID ADVERTISEMENT INSERT page I 


' ' • • ~~ : I.' :~, , .: 't ...... 
diret:tory indudes more than :>O Ccnter-relute.l stu· groups 1+ l as wei 11~~ some 40 'c:>mmunity agencies 
volunteen;. The agencies In green prlnt bavt Service J,e.nnlng ..:'c~rdlnalvrs on !lite' (see arUde on this pllgll!}, For more information on <my organil.ll· 
:;ee Ihe dc!>i:ription on the fc•llowing two pages. 
t' Tre;lUllf.'lll Center:; 
+Studrnts Ag:~inst Drunk Driving iSADDl 
Centl"r for lla.~ic I..G<tming Skills DbmasHous.: El Eluen Vedno C<JilJWil of St. Joseph County Cmmnunity Sdmt1l8 Adult Education 
Brc~ulwuy Christian Parish ·· Center 
Center for Soc;ial Con.cerns South Bend Cttmmunily Schttol~ Partnership Center for the Homeles~ 
+ CeutN for the Homcl<:ss Children's Group 
+Ci•~·k· K lnternationul +Council lor Fun <tnd Learning El [lucn Vet'ino El Citmpito Day Care Ct!nter F.UU:. lll)lne 
Ndghhorh•x>d CcntC'r llau!>d H~ad Stm1 fklplullJndcrg~~tduutl' Students IH.U.G.S.J 
Home M~umgcnlCnt Services Ju11ior A.:hi<~vcmcnt Club of Notre Ditrne 
M~tdisi)IJ C'entcor +Manantlal l'vls. Wizard D11)' Progrum Team Neighl~Jrh«xl Study Help Program Hedwig· sOutreach Center '. Marga1t>t's House Student Tutorial Education Prt,gnmt Bend H.:ritagl' Foundation YWCA Wonll'n's Shelter 
Community Alliunre to Serve Hi>p~mics (CAS. H.} 
+ M~nHnti~tl 
Somh Iknd 1-lt:ritage Fuumbticm 
UIS,\BILJTY SERVlt:ES 
+Bc•tlJuddies 
Camp Millhou;e 
+Cuundl for Fun und Learning 
+Logan Volunteer• MadiM.in Center Rein~ of Life 
+Snp<.'rSib• 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

For a More Just and Humane World 
0 0 ', • I , .', ; -I.~. ", 
ENVIRONMENT 
+Foodshare 

+Re.::yclin' Irish +Student:; for Environmentlll Action (SEA) 
HOUSING AND HOMELK"'SNESS Broadway Chr.istian Parish Center f~1:r tb~Jil<!md:e.ss 
+ Habilat for Humanity Hope RescueMis..;ion +Project Wmmth St. Margurct's House 

St. Vincent de Paul Salvation Anny So11th Bend R~ri..F~und11tktn YWCA Women's Shelter 
HUNGER CONCERNS 
+PoodShare St. Vincent de Paul Sulvution Army 
+ Wcwld Hunger Coalition 

MEl)lCAL +AIDS Awareness/Students with Aid.q Training (SWAT) 
AlP$~,.!~ A~s A~J~.~ 
+Americnn Cnneer Sodety · 
C11nte,r for t~e ~~~~~Ill! Chapin St. qini.~ 


+ Fim Aid Services Team 

Harbor Light~ Hospice +Helpful Undergraduate Student.~ (H.U.G.S.) 
+ Hospice Chapter. ND Ho:.pke of St. Joseph County +Memori<•l Hospit.'ll Medic.1l E.~plorers +St. J\>seph 's Chnpin St. He~tlthcare 
MULTl·SERVICE GROUf'S 
+Arnold Air Society (4) Catholic Charities 
+Cirde K .International 

+Community Alliant>e to Serve Hispanics (C.A.S.H.) 
Goodwill Industries of Michiana Norlhen$1 Nlfigtlporl:IQII(I CeJ!ti,<r +World HungerC<>aliti<>n 
PEACE AND .JUSTICE ISSUES +Amnesty International 
+Right to Lite +World Hunger Coalition 
TUTORING (Al<;l) ~e Children & Youth} 
+ Big Brothers & Big Sisters 
c~:r~t~r fq.ftl!\l.l:Jllm¢11l>\l~ 
+ Cirdc K International 
+Cotmcil J'or Fun and Lcm'tling El Bucn Vedno LH G\l~~~ t\ttr\mi~t.Ml 


+Neighborhood Study Help Program St. Hedwig's Outrench Center St. Margmet's Hou;;e South Bend Juvenile }ladlity ....•.. 
+Student 'rtltodal Education Pl'O!,U'fltn(STEP} YMCA YWCA Women's Shelter Youth Servit:c Bureau 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 

+ 
C'ampu> Alliance f0r Rape Elimination (C.A.R.E.l Home Management Services 

+ 
Right tn Life. ND/SMC St. Margtu-ct':; House Sex Offense Services ...... +Student Advocates for Inclusive Ministr}' Women's Care Center 


YWCA Women's Shelter 

ONE TIME SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES +Christtmt~ in April 
+Circle Klntemntionnl Disnltl.' House 
+Hahiwt for l{umanity 
+Proj~ct Warmth 
Salvation Anny St. Vincent de Paul 

NOTE: Dom1s, ch1.,ses. or special interest groups may wish to organi7.e special projects with groups or agencies listed here. For further information, contact Kathy Royer, Director, Community Ba~ed Learning and f'artoernhips ut 631-5293. 
Special thanks to Mike Daigler and Kristie McCann for their assistance in compiling this information, 
Community Parnerships and Student Leaders 
ON FINDING A MENTOR 
One of the most i.mportant things that college students do is to iden­tify people who are role models for them as they begin to shape the direction of their lives. The Center for Social Concerns offers students the opportunity to interact with people whose values and commitments have led them into full-time work in the not-for-profit sector. 
The Center has developed partnerships with organizations in South Bend that make it possible for students to meet people like Eva Sanchez. Eva is the daughter of a migrant worker. She came to South Bend with her family and, after years of struggle, found La Casa de Amistad. Eva, now the mother of three children and a Notre Dame graduate, serves as the Assistant Director of La Casa. She is also a Service Learning Coordinator (SLC) for the Center for Social Concerns. This means that some of her time is devoted to helping Notre Dame students expand their education by giving them the oppor­tunity to work at La Casa in a variety of roles. 
Currently the Center for Social Concerns works with eight Service Learning Coordinators in the community. These special people arc available to help students find placements in their agencies (listed below and in green on the following two pages) that meet both the needs of the community based organization and the student. These SLC's are aware of the importance of finding ways to connect the stu­dents' real life experience with their academic work. They arc all com­mitted to making reflection a part of the student's experience in their organizations. 
But even more important. the SLC's are themselves role models for students who seck to build meaningful lives as they study and eventu­ally leave Notre Dame. It is npleasure to introduce the Notre Dame community to some of the finest teachers in South Bend. The Service Learning Coordinators who work with the Center for Social Concerns arc a great resource to students. SLC's also serve as resources to facul­ty by assisting them in creating co(Irse related community-based learn­ing opportunities. The Center for Social Concerns is able to inform and educate students, faculty, and staff about community service and social action because of this valuable resource. The Service Learning Coordinators are willing and able to find the right placements for stu­dents who come to them either individually or as part of a course relat­
ed assignment. 
Service Learning Coordinators Aids Ministries/ Aids Assist Center for the Homeless Chapin St. Clinic La Casa de Amistad Logan Center Northeast Neighborhood Center 
Center for Social Concems South Bend Community Schools Prutnership South Bend Heritage Foundation 
Kathy Eaton  234-2870  
Matt Toohey  282-8700  
Michelle Peters  289-7662  
Eva Sanchez  233-2120  
Rosie McDowell  289-4831  
Marcia  
Brown-H Lllll phrey  235-9675  
Tonya Sexton  631-9405  
Jessie Whitaker  631-3211  



------------------------------' 

I· 
. :
page 2 •• • • •• • • • . .... 
Community Partnership~ 
+ AIDS AWARENESS I STUDENTS WITH AIDS TRAINING (SWAT) Volunteers give social support to individuals who are HIV+ by providing. support and assistance with office tasks. Student Contact: Rebecca Hammel @ 634-4171 
Agency: Aids Ministries/ Aids Assists; Contact Service Learning Coordinator Kathy Eaton @ 234-2870 
AIDS MINISTRIES I AIDS ASSIST 
Volunteers work with the agency to 
support and enhance the lives of those 
infected with or affected by HIV and 
AIDS 

Contact: Service Learning Coordinator Kathy Eaton @ 234-7870 
+ AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
Volunteers organize on-campus awareness raising and fund-raising events. 
Student Contact: Kelly Cavanaugh @ 287-1964 
+ AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
Volunteers are needed for letter writing, petition signing, special campaign work, and informal discussions about human rights issues worldwide. 
Student Contact: Brian Monberg @ 277-2767 
+ 
ARNOLD AIR SOCIETY Volunteers are members of a national collegiate organization of Air Force ROTC dedicated to interaction with the community. (Only Air Force cadets may join.) 

Student Contact: Angela Polsinelli @ 624-2594 6­

+ 
BEST BUDDIES Volunteers develop their relationships with persons with mild to moderate mental retardation by going to movies, sporting events, concerts, museums, and by participating together in recreational activities. Student Contact: Erin Lovell @ 634-1324 Community Agency: Logan Center; Contact Service Learning 

Coordinator Rosie McDowell @ 289-4831 

+ 
BIG BROTHERS & BIGSISTERS Volunteers provide shared time and friendship between a student and a child. 


Student Contact: Amanda Deerhake @ 243-5964 BOYS & GIRLS CLUB Volunteers assist with tutoring, health and recreation programs for ages 5 through 18. 


Agency Phone: 232-2048 
BROADWAY CHRISTIAN PARISH Volunteers help with the Sunday meal (cooking, serving and cleaning up) as well as the food pantry and neighborhood projects. 
Agency Contact: Mike Mather 
@ 289-0333 CAMP MILLHOUSE Volunteers work with disabled children and adults on weekends. 
Agency Phone: 233-2202 
+ CAMPUS ALIANCE FOR RAPE 
ELIMINATION (C.A.R.E.) Volunteers are students and faculty/administrators from both Notre Dame and St. Mary's College. 
C.A.R.E. members make dorm presentations about rape on campus and sponsor rape support group on campus. 
Student Contact: James Schuyler @ 634-1539 
CAMPUS GIRL SCOUTS, ND/SMC Volunteers work with local Girl Scout groups as sponsors. 
Student Contact: Heidi Winker @634-1533 
CASIE CENTER Volunteers assist with intakes in this organization which provides advocacy services for abused children. 
Agency Phone: 282-1414 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES Volunteers provide support services to refugees. 
Agency phone: 234-311 I 
+ CENTER FOR BASIC LEARNING SKILLS Volunteers tutor adults from 9:30­
11 :30 Monday through Thursday mornings at the Center for Basic Learning Skills in South Bend. 
Student Contact: Chris Hahn @ 631-5293 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS SOUTH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS PARTNERNSHIP Volunteers also give classroom presentations and work with grade school children as mentors and tutors. 
Contact: Service Learning Coordinator Tonya Sexton @ 631-9405 
CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS Volunteers provide a variety of services to homeless adults and children. 
Contact: Service Learning Coordinator Matt Toohey @ 282-8700 
+ CENTER FOR THE HOMELESS CHILDREN'S GROUP Volunteers spend time once a week with the children who live at the CFH. Usually on weekends, volunteers might 
tutor, organize field trips and plan art and craft activities. Student Contact: Laurie Friedman 
@ 631-2241 Community Agency: Center for the Homeless; Contact Service Learning 
Coordinator Matt Toohey @ 282-8700 CHAPIN STREET CLINIC 
Volunteers work in a medical clinic 
that provides services to low-income 
adults and families. 
Contac.t: Service Learning Coordinator Michelle Peters @ 289-7662 
+ 
CHRISTMAS IN APRIL Volunteers upgrade neighborhood homes and lift residents' spirits. 

Contact: Mary Edgington @ 631-4077 

+ 
CIRCLE K INTERNATIONAL Volunteers work on a variety of service activities including working with children and neighborhood clean up. 

Student Contact: Matthew Banach @ 634-3807 

+ 
COMMUNITY ALLIANCE TO SERVE HISPANICS (CASH) Volunteers reach out to the Hispanic community of South Bend through a variety of service activities, educational programs, and cultural awareness projects. Student Contact: Jaime Ullinger @ 634-3456 Community Agency: La Casa de Amistad: Contact Service Learning 


Coordinator Eva Sanchez @ 233-2120 
CORVILLA, INC. Volunteers develop one-to-one relationships with Corvilla residents. C01·villa is a home for persons with .mental retardation. 
Agency Phone: 289-9779 
+ COUNCIL FOR FUN AND LEARNING Volunteers work with learning disabled 
children every Saturday morning at the Children's Dispensary. 
DISMAS HOUSE 
Volunteers are needed to cook for the ·residents on weeknights. Students are also needed to live at Dismas House. Agency Phone: 233-8522 
EL BUEN VECINO Volunteers tutor people in English and help them study for their high school equivalency. They also'help with child care and work with mothers to teach money management skills and health and nutrition information. 
Agency Phone: 287-8228 
EL CAMPITO DAY CARE CENTER Volunteers act as role models for young children from single parent families. Volunteers also assist regular day care instructors in planning and implementing their organized program. 
Agency Phone: 232-8220 
+ FIRST AID SERVICES TEAM 
Volunteers provide coverage for inter-hall sports, concerts, home foot ball games, AnTostal, Keenan Review. campus runs, and any other ND/SMC activity that requests the team's service. 
Student Contact: Jonathan Cook @ 634-3324 
F.I.R.E. HOME Volunteers work in a supervised visitation center for physically, sexually abused, or neglected children and their parents/guardians. 
Agency Contact Fran Anastasio-Quirk @ 287-4375 
+ FOODSHARE Volunteers deliver, in groups of four or five, the leftover food from the campus dining halls to the Center for the Homeless and Hope Rescue Mission in South Bend. 
Student Contact: Julia Dayton @ 634-1393 

GOODWILL INDUSTRIES OF MICHIANA Volunteers help with half-price sales at Goodwill stores. 
Agency Contact: Joan Wesolowski-234-1661 
GRACE NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER Volunteers work with children in an after school program. 
Agency Phone: 232-0 181 
+ HABITAT FOR HUMANITY Volunteers work on construction crews, donate materials, and provide meals for the work groups. 
Student Contact: Katy Fallon @ 634-1074 
HARBOR LIGHT HOSPICE Volunteers work with terminally ill people, especially in nursing homes. 
Agency Contact: Sr. Celeste R. Shoppy, IHM -1-800-237-4242 

HANSEL HEAD START Volunteers are needed to work two hours per week with children on a one­to-one basis. 
Agency Phone: 234-2150 
+ HELPFUL UNDERGRADUATE STUDENTS (H.U.G.S.) Volunteers work with the Memorial Hospital Pediatric Intensive Care Unit. 

Student Contact: Megan Marcuccilli @ 243-5607 
HOME MANAGEMENT SERVICES Volunteers help with individual counseling for women in home management, finances, etc. They are also needed to help with child care. 
Agency Phone: 233-3486 

HOPE RESCUE MISSION Volunteers serve meals to persons who are homeless and destitute, assist with the maintenance of the facility, and visit residents on a one-to-one basis. 
Agency Phone: 288-4842 
+ HOSPICE CHAPTER, ND Volunteers visit terminally ill patients in their homes. Student Contacts: Sara Doorley 
@ 631-2170, Rachel Lustig @ 4-2170 

HOSPICE OF ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. Volunteers provide support services for terminally ill patients and their families. 
Agency Phone: 237-0340 
+ JUNIOR ACHIEVEMENT CLUB OF NOTRE DAME Volunteers teach three different 
programs at area schools: Project Business. The Basics of Business, Economics of Staying in School. 
Student Contact: Kim Smith @ 634-2978 


Thursday, October 1, 1998 The Observer· CSC PAID ADVERTISEMENT INSERT page 3 
and Student Leaders 
LA CASA DE Al\IISTAD Volunteer~ work in a youth and adult center on the west side of South Bend that serves the needs of Hispanics. 
Contact: Service Learning Coordinator Eva Sanchez @ 233-2120 
LEGAL SEI{VICES Volunteers serve as intake workers. The program provides free legal representation to low-income persons. 
Agency Phone: 234-X I21 
IJFE TREATMENT CENTER Volunteers provide various services in the alcohol rehabilitation program. 
Agency Contm;t: Steve Newton (g) 233-5433 
LITERACY COUNCIL OF ST. .JOSEPH COUNTY, INC. Volunteers tutor adults in both basic n:ading and English as a Second l.anguage. 
Agency Phone: 235-6229 
LOGAN CENTER Volunteers work with disabled adults ;md children in a variety of capacities. 
Contact Service Learning Coordinator Rosie McDowell @ 2X9-4!l3 I 
+ LO<;AN VOLUNTEERS Volunteers assist with organizing games and doing arts and crafts 
projcds with and for Logan Center clients. Student Contact: Caly Nguyen ­634-419 I Community Agency: Logan Center; Contact Service Learning 
• Coordinator Rosie McDowell @ 2X9-..J.~31. 
MADISON CENTER Volunteers assist emotionally handi capped adolescents to adapt to a normal school and community life. Other programs include Sex Offense Services, Children ,.s Day Treatment and Children and Adolescent Tutoring. 
Agency Phone: 234-0061 
+ 1\IANANTIAL Voluilleers arc trained as mentors to llispanic young people ages X -15. Student Contact: Mariela Marin @ 634-1219 Community 
Agency: La Casa de Amistad; Contact Service Learning Coordinator Eva Sanchez 
@ 233-2120 

+ MEMORIAL HOSPITAL MEDICAL EXPLORERS Volunteers work with stall at Memorial 
llospital and assist with medical procedures. Student Contact: Krista Maizel 01 634-1365 
MILTON HOME Volunteers visit elderly residents on OJH:-to-one basis. 
Agency Phone: 233-0 165 
+ MS. WIZARD DAY PROGRAM 
TEAM Volunteers organize a one-day science fair in February for young women in middle school. 
Student Contact: Mary Bertsch @ 634-IX:lO 
+ NEIGHBORHOOD STUDY HELP 
PROGRAM Volunteers tutor at a variety of centers twice a week for a one hour period eai.:h time. 
Student Contact: Chris Summar @634-1567 
NORTHEAST NEIGHBORHOOD 
CENTER 
Volunteers repair homes, sponsor a 
Neighborhood Day. 
which includes a cookout/picnic 
selling. assist people in finding homes, 
and tutor children. 
Contact: Community Service Learning Coordinator Marcia Brown-Humphrey @ 235-9675 
+ PIH>.JECT WARMTH 
Volunteers help collect. sort and distribute jackets and coats to share with individuar-; in need. 
Student Contact: Suzy Tompkins @ 243-0247 
REAL SERVICES Volunteers visit the elderly. Agency Phone: 233-8205 
+ RECYCLIN' IIHSH Volunteers organize throughout the dorms and facilities on campus the various recycling efforts. which include newspaper. glass, aluminum and now 
paper, plastic, and polyurethane. Student Contact: Gretchen Hasselbring @ 634-4692 
REINS OF LIFE Volunteers act as horse leaders or sidewalkers for people with disabilities during therapeutic horseback riding classes. 
Agency Contact: Sharon Burnside @ 291-4540 
+ RIGHT TO LIFE, ND/SMC 
Volunteers focus on the national abortion issue. Activities include weekly picketing at the Women's 
Pavilion, dorm forums, trips to Washington. D.C.. and a Right-to-Life week during the year. 
Swdent Contact: Catriona Wilkie @ 634-2140 
ST. HEDWIG'S OUTREACH CENTER Volunteers help with tutoring and provide a stable role models for children who come from families that are in crisis. It involves one or two afternoons per week from 4:30-6:00 p.m. 
Agency Phone: 2X7-0845 

+ ST . .JOSEPH'S CHAPIN ST. HEALTHCARE Volunteers assist in providing clinic health services for those who arc medically indigent·. Student Contact: Brigid Molen @ 273-6306 Community Agency: Chapin St. Clinic; Contact Service Learning Coordinator Michelle Peters 
@ 289-7662 

ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE Volunteers help with children. answer the phone and serve as hosts for guests. Volunteers also help with literacy work, cooking, aerobics. spiritual groups and other activities that would he useful to the guests. The House is open to adult women and girls and boys under twelve. 
Agency Contact: Kathy Schnieder 234-7795 ST. VINCENT DE PAUL Volunteers work in the thrift store to prepare used goods for sale. Anyone organizing a food or clothing drive can work through this grassroots organization. 
Agency Phone: 234-6211 
SALVATION ARMY Volunteers provide food for Thanksgiving, Christmas and Easter baskets for families in South Bend. Student volunteers can "adopt" a South Bend family through the Salvation Army. 
Agency Phone: 233-9471 
SEX OFFENSE SERVICES (SOS) Volunteers work at Madison Center and assist victims of sexual assault and their families. 
Agency Contact: Laurel Eslinger @ 289-4357 
SOUtH BEND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS ADULT EDUCATION Volunteers work individually with adult students who are studying for their GED or simply learning literacy skills. 
Agency Contact: Gayle Silver @ 282-4000 
SOUTH BEND .JUVENILE FACILITY Volunteers tutor, organize recreational activities, and act as mentors. 
Agency Contact: Rebecca Petit @ 277-3070 
SOUTH BEND HERITAGE 
FOUNDATION 
Volunteers work with children in after 
school programs. Volunteers are also 
able to work in all facets of 
neighborhood revitalization from 
planning to financial services. 
Contact: Service Learning Coordinator Jessie Whitaker @ 631-321 I 
+ 
STUDENT ADVOCATES FOR INCLUSIVE MINISTRY Volunteers assist in planning programs that encourage dialogue about ministry especially how to make it a more inclusive part of church life. Student 

Contact: Susan Roberts @ 634-0700 

+ 
STUDENTS AGAINST DRUNK 


DRIVING (SADD) Volunteers plan and presented ucational programs and activities about the problem of drinking and driving especially as it relates to Notre Dame students. 
Student Contact: Jennifer lmundo @ 634-0939 
+ STUDENTS FOR 
ENVIRONMENTAL ACTION (SEAl Volunteers promote awareness of environmental issues amongst the student body and the South Bend community. We cooperate with the Notre Dame Environmental Task Force and environmental groups in South Bend to create environmentally sound policies on campus and off. 
Student Contact: Chris Wilmes @ 233-6372 
STUDENTS FOR RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Volunteers assist not-for-profit organizations in South Bend using their business expertise. 
Student Contact: Jason Moskowitz @ 273-9227 
+ STUDENT TUTORIAL 
EDUCATION PROGRAM (STEP) Volunteers visit the South Bend Juvenile Facility one night a week and spend an hour with a resident completing work or talking about con structive topics. The residents are also given a Christmas Party and a Picnic in the Spring which is provided by STEP and the Facility. 
Student Contact: JetT Wincko @ 634-1676 
+ SUPERSIBS 
Volunteers work with children who have siblings with disabilities. Student Contact: Todd Church @ 243-4715 Agency: Logan Center; Contact Rosie McDowell @ 289-4831 
UNITED RELIGIOUS COMMUNITY Volunteers are trained in mediation skills and work on special projects, the Victim Offender Reconciliation Program and the Advocacy Center. 
Agency Phone: 282-2397 
+ UNIVERISTY YOUNG LIFE 
Volunteers plan events to work with local high school students. Student Contact: Elizabeth Ayer @ 634-1535 
WOMEN'S CARE CENTER Volunteers help welcome pregnant women and couples by helping them gather the resources that they need to complete the pregnancy. 
Agency Phone: 234-0363 
WOMEN'S RESOURCE CENTER Volunteers provide assistance to the women of Notre Dame with issues and problems that are particularly acute for women, such as rape and sexual assault, eating disorders, sexual harassment, etc. 
Student Contact: Marnie Bowen @ 634-0534 
+ WORLD HUNGER COALITION Volunteers raise awareness and support for the poor and hungry in the South 
Bend community and around the world. Volunteers aim to grow spiritually and mentally in their efforts to alleviate hunger and to have fun doing it. The group's main source of funding is the Wednesday lunch fast. 
Student Contact: Sarah Jacobs @ 234-4060 
YMCA Volunteers tutor high school students. Agency Phone: 2X7-9622 
YWCA WOMEN'S SHELTER Volunteers listen. provide transportation, llltor. and work with children and to perform other important services at the shelter. Volunteers may also serve at the Women's Journey Chemical Dependency Program 
Agency Phone: 233-9491 
YOUTH SERVICES BUREAU 
Volunteers work in a temporary shelter 
care facility serving youth in crisis. 
Agency Phone: 235-9231 
Key: 
Organizations in green have Service 
Learning Coordinators on site 
+ Student Groups 

-
\)~ 
.... 
page 4 The Observer • CSC PAID ADVERTISEMENT INSERT 
esc 
CENTER FOR 

SOCIAL For a More Just and Humane World 

CONCERNS 


The Center for Social 
'\: 
Concerns provides educa­tional experiences in ~social concerns inspired by Gospel values and Catholic social teachings. Central to this process is enhancing the spiritual and intellectual awareness of students, faculty, staff, and alumni/ae about today's complex social realities, calling us all to service and action for a more just and humane world. 
Thursday, October 1, 1998 
Experiential Learning Council 
The Experiential Learning Council is designed to develop and enhance experien­tial and service learning opportunities for Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, particularly through the student-facilitated experiential learning Seminars offered by the Center for Social Concerns. The organization brings together student lead­ers of each of the Seminars to create a forum for ideas, to coordinate planning, and to share resources. 
The ELC is a imaginative organization that builds on student initiative to prompt learning and foster just actions in relation to the world. 
Founded three years ago, the ELC is a developing organization that serves over 600 students a year. Some areas of focus for the 1998-1999 year are academic integration within the University, action for justice, and the development of new resources. This year also presents two new seminars: The Children and Poverty Seminar & The Civil Rights Seminar, as well as a collaboration with Campus Ministry on the Chilean Youth Seminar. 
Experiential Learning Council 1998 
Officers 
Angela Anderson Matt Brummer Katie Cousino Clare Felton Marjorie Hill Krista McCarthy Bridget O'Connor Matt Renaud Jessica Smatlak 
Shaunti Althoff Karen Boselli Micheal Fierro Adriana Gallegos Maureen Hoover Jennifer Johnson Sherrechia Jones 
Tom Kilroy Sarah Kolasa Arnold Lacayo Jenny Leary Erin Neil Suzanne Penny Amanda Roberts Nicole Shirila 
Chairperson  4-1669  
Secretary  4-1887  
Saint Mary's College Liaison  284-4316  
Web Page Coordinator  4-3801  
National Communications Coord.  4-1523  
Campus Ministry & Theology Liasion  243-5341  
Campus Communication  4-0550  
Treasurer  4-1230  •  
Academic Integration Coordinator  4-1543  
Migrant Experience Seminar  4-2685  
Washington Seminar  4-2770  
Coachella Seminar  4-1173  
Coachella Seminar  4-4160  
Chicago City of Hope Seminar  4-4341  
Washington Seminar  4-2744  
Cultural Diversity Seminar  4-2468  
Civil Rights Seminar  
Appalachia Seminar Co-Chair  271-1901  
Appalachia Seminar Co-Chair  4-2892  
Migrant Experience Seminar  4-1712  
Phoenix Seminar  4-0565  
L'Arche Seminar  4-3219  
Urban Plunge  4-1535  
Washington Seminar  1-9473  
Phoenix Seminar  4-1478  

Nursing Homes and Student Volunteers 
Volunteers visit individual residents and help with group activities such as bingo and musical programs at the following nursing homes: 
St. Paul's Retirement Community" 
Holy Cross Living Center 
Holy Cross Care and Rehabilitation Center 
Countryside Place 
Healthwin 
Meridian-Cardinal 
Milton Home Portage Manor 
Tanglewood Tr.ace 
291-8205 259-5050 271-3990 259-1917 272-0100 287-6501 233-0165 272-9100 277-4310 

I a 

Thursday, October I, 1998--------------------OBSERVER page 15 



'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' in the Spotlight Next Week 
Notre Danw l;i lm. T1~lnvision. and ThPa trn wi II preS!)Jlt (:at on a /lot Tin Uoof OctoiH~r 7-II at Washington flail. l!Pginald Bain, associalP prornssor in thP Tlwatrn IJPparlllWJJt, will dirnrt thP first JJJainslagn play of the I I)IJH-1)9 S!HLSOil. 
;\ masterpier(~ or Anwrican LlwatrP. Cal 01/ (I flo/ "/"in /lor~/" presnnts sonw or Llw most vivid and nwmorabln l"iwractnJ'S to lw round Oil sl.agn. Tlwy struggln to sur­vivl' thn pain or tlwir livns, thnir dnnp lonnliJH~SS, Llwir inability to rommunicatn with o1w anollwr, and thnir IH'I'd rc;r illusion to dna] with t]w rna]itii~S or human " x i s tl' 11 cn . T ~~ n n n s s n n W i II i a 111 s s a i d t h a t h e w as allt•mpting to "r.atch thn lrliP quality or I'Xperi!•ncn in a group or JWOple, that cloudy, rJirkPring, PV<LIWSCPnt ­J"inrr1dy chargnd -inl!~rplay or human bPings in thn thunder rloud or a ('.0111111011 crisis". 
Thn contnxt or tho crisis in this play is tlw impnnding dPalh of' Llw patriarrh, Big IJaddy Pollitt who. with his wirl' Big Mama, r.ontrols thn "richnst land this sidn of llll' valley Niln." and llw fight for succnssion and inheri­tanrn or his ostal!L Brick Pollitt. his favoritn son. has withdrawn into alcoholism and si!PJH:n. Maggie (thn "ral" of lhl' tilld has dl~lnrmiJwd to f'ind a way to save 
lwr marriage and secure Brick's inheritanc, which is thrnaterwd by tlw manipulations of his older brother and sistnr-in-law. Cooper and Mae. and their "no-neck monsll~r" children. 

The play presents these events in a uniquely realistic and poetic combination of people, nvnnts, atmosphere and thought that is thn world of' Tennessee Williams. In the bedroom of Maggie and Brick (haunted by its former occupants), this ritual of' dnath and succession is playml out as sncrnts arn revealed, lies uncovered and nnw illusions creatnd to deal with the pain of' human expnrinnce. But Williams' vision here is essen­tially hopnf'ul, as Maggio the "eat" says: "Life has got to be allowed to continue even after the dream of life is-all-over... " 
Pnrf'ormancns of' Cat on a /lot Tin Roof will run from Wednesday, Oct. 7. to Saturday, Oct. 10. at 7:30p.m.. , and Sunday. Oct. 11. at 2:30 p.m. Tickets are $9 for reservnd S!~ats and are available at the door or in advance at tlw LaFortune Student Center Box Office. Students and senior citizen discounts are available for all perf'ormancns. For Master Card and Visa orders. call (d 1-S 12S. 
PlAYINFORMA1JON 'CAT ONA HOTUN ROOF 
Dates: Wednesday, Oct. 7 to Sunday, Oct. 11 Times: 7:30 P.M., Wednesday to Saturday; 
2:30 P.M., Sunday Location: Washington Hall Tickets: $6 for students ­available at LaFortune Info Desk or at door 
... 


The Observer accepts classilleds every business day fi·om 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall . Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge
Classifieds is 3 cems per character per day, including .11! spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refunds. 
1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with STANFORD game. Call me (Amy) CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW orthopedic mattress set and deluxe at 243-0247 FREE PHONECARD 1 per 
NOTICES 

GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 frame. New, never used,stilltn plas-home.$25 activation.Send 
I WANTED 
tic.$225 219-862-2082 SASE: Brenda Horton.Dept.O,POB 
I

THE COPY SHOP That Pretty Place, Bed and Need 4 Stanford GAs 83461, LA,CA 90083 LaFortune Student Center ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... Breakfast Inn has space available 93FORD TAURUS Wagon, Power x3501 Eric
:. 
We're Open A Loti!! "TAKE 2" for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms AC 133K V.Ciean $4290. Call Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 with private baths,$80-2773254. Pretty Pretty Please-Need NOTRE DAME COLLECTIBLES Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm SALES and ... EARN $$$$. $115,Middlebury,30 miles from 2 GA's for Stanford Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Jamatca,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida, campus.Toll Road, Exit #107,1-800-Call Anne or Michelle Sale & Auction 
TICKETS
Sun: Noon -Midnight Padre!Lowest prices! Free 418-9487. 243-9371 Oct. 23 -11 am -11 pm 
When you need copies, Meals, Parties & Drinks. LOGAN CENTER we're open! ..Limited Offer ... 1800-426-ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME Need Army G.A.s 1235 Eddy & Angela 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE GAMES.272-6306 -not in student section-
TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. Call Stephanie @273-0893 For Info, call 257-0039 Early Spring Break I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t-TICKETMART Inc Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6 shirts for me and my dad. If you sell BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY BUY-SELL-TRADE ''ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, Days $279!1ncludes most meals! them or have a few extra, please info: Notre Dame Football Tickets Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING Awesome help me out. Call Michelle at 4-http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 258-1111 tickets.Piease call908-722-7901. STUDENTS'' Original student Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From 0562. 219-291-7153. No student tickets please group wtll hold general meeting 
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica 1 Stanford G.A for sale TONIGHT. Call info line for details Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties SPRING BREAK '99! THE PRIMROSE PATH -Dave x1902 236-9661. $339!Panama City Room With Cancun'Nassau• Jamaica'Mazatlan BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED FOR SALE Kitchen,? Free Parties • Acapulco'Bahamas 15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS FOOTBALL TICKETS 2 Stan GA's 4 sale $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL 271-9412 Dan 634-0951 UMPHREY'S McGEE $149!1998 BBB Award Travel Free and make lots of WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC makes their debut at the Winner!springbreaktravel.com Cash!Top reps are offered full-time INN,FULL ELEGANT BREAK-WANTED 2 Stan Tix. B.O. Leave Message. world famous 1-800-678-6386 staff jobs.Lowest price FASTS.4 GUEST ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 273-1510 
Guaranteed.Call now for details! ROOMS,A/C,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS 271-1526 VIP ROOM "OWN A BMW" www.classtravel.com REQUIRED.$99.00 Call616-695-2 for Army & Baylor Earn $$ While you Learn 800/838-6411 6321 ND Ftbl. tix call Steve@ 901-763-7100, x4302 123 W. Washington St., above 247-0736 BUY-SELL Bw-3 
ILOST & FOUND I Now Hiring NEW RESTAURANT/ Lg 2BR apt, 4 blks from ND. $475/ 674-7645 WINE BAR mo. 234-8017. 3 Stanford Ga's (together) for sale. TONIGHT! The Vine ND Football-Buy-Sell. Seasonal and Will trade lor any remaining home 122 S Michigan St Bed and breakfast Football Individual Game Tickets. GA-only game.42795 If you feel like you might be a very 
Gitana antique gold & brown glass-South Bend, IN weekends two miles from stadium 674-7645 important person, then this could be es found in grass outside of (next to the Football Hall of Fame) 219-277=6832 NEED 2 STANFORD TIX for you. O'Shag. Claim at Lost & Found in Know a little about wine? Want to ND Football Tickets Needed. GA OR STUDENT 634-3006 O'Shag. learn a lot about wine? BED & BREAKFAST.Football AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Come apply as a server or bar-weekends for ND parents. Two You better not shout
PERSONAL

LOST-BEAR-SHAPED SILVER tender. Want to join an exciting nights minimum.1 0 mins. from cam-ND FOOTBALL TIX you better not cry PIN w!TURQUOISE. PLEASE new business and be a part of our pus.272-5640 FOR SALE thats because CALL 273-9695. team? Please apply within for all AM 232-2378 FAX IT FAST!!! i'mtelling 
positions: servers, bartenders, PM 288-2726 Sending & Receiving you why.
FOR SALE
Lost on 8/28. cooks & bussers. Mon-Fri 9 to 5. at Santa Claus Now interviewing. Always buying and selling N D foot-THE COPY SHOP is coming 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS ball tickets. 289-8048 LaFortune Student Center to town LOST steel watch with blue crown. 198 MIN. $20 Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 HAPPY Blue and black face. Very senti-FOR RENT CALL 258-4805 FAX IT FAST!!! NEW mental. $50 for return. X2254 HELP!! I need TWO tickets to the YEAR 
Thursday, October 1, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

"Without question...an investment banking power­house" -Wall Street Journal 
In June 1998, Union Bank of Switzerland merged with Swiss Bank Corporation to create the new UBS AG. 
The investment banking businesses of both banks came together to form Warburg Dillon Read*-one of the world's most significant investment banks. 
As a world leader among financial institutions, Warburg Dillon Read has opportunities for students interested in join­ing an organization that has built it's franchise as the invest­ment bank of choice, meeting the global banking needs of our clients. 
"...a worthy contender to rival the American groups that style themselves as 'global' players"-The Times 
We cordially invite the students of University of Notre Dame to learn more about graduate opportunities on: 
Wednesday, October 7, 1998 
6:30 PM -8:30 PM La Fortune Center Foster Room 
All applications for graduate and internship positions can be made via our website. www.wdr.com 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
'*Warburg Dillon Read 
*References to Warburg Dillon Read in the United States refer to Warburg Dillon Read LLC, a registered broker dealer. 
-


page I 8 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October I, I 998 



Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. 
e new world opened up one Saturday morning." 
"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. HOLY So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the 
CROSS 

full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course, you can talk with someone in 
COLLEGE

the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for
... *
P.O. Box 308

a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Table in Joyce 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 

Brain cancer claims life of Royals' great 

Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY. Mo. 
Dan Quisenberry, a star reliever for the Hoyals whose droll wit and funky delivery charmed fans and baffled bat­ters, died Wednesday of brain cancer. He was 45. 
Quisenberry died around dawn in his home in Leawood, Kan.. after a nine-month battle with the illness. lie had under­gone surgery twice since December when sudden. per­sistent headaches were diag­nosed as the most lethal type of tumor. 
"Dan was one of the finest people I've ever known," said Atlanta Braves general manag­er John Schuerholz. who head­ed the Hoyals' scouting depart­

·•' ment 20 years ago when an undrafted Quisenberry had to plead for a tryout. Quisenberry, a three-time All-Star, was the major league career saves leader from 1979­85 and helped the Hoyals win two American League pennants and a World Series. News of his illness last winter jolted Kansas City, where the affable, quick-witted Quisenberry had remained a popular and active member of the community. During his playing days, he devoted a great deal of time and energy to gathering food for the home­less and needy. While continu­ing that work since retiring in1990, he had also begun giv­ing poetry readings in public libraries. "I don't remember him as the guy who got all the ground balls and double plays," said Jamie Quirk, a Hoyals coach 
and longtime teammate. "lie was more important than that. He was mueh more." 
Quisenberry came up late in 1979 when injuries devastated the Royals' pitching staff. Pale and skinny, he had an awk­ward-looking, submarine deliv­ery and a sinkerball that big­league hitters figured to m ur­der. 
Instead, they usually pounded balls into the ground, where a talented infield headed by nine­time All-Star second baseman Frank White seooped them up. 
"You'd go, 'God, why can't I hit this guy'?'" Quirk said. 
In a 12-year career, he com­piled 244 saves -13th all time. He was the AL saves leader live times while helping the Hoyals win pennants in 1980 and '85. 
His 45 saves in 1983 was then the major league record. Between 1979 and 1985, when Kansas City beat St. Louis for its only World Series title, Quisenberry's 217 saves were tops in the majors. 
"I lull them into a false sense of security by Jetting them watch me pitch," he once deadpanned. "If overconfi­dence can cause the Roman Empire to fall, l ought to be able to get a ground ball." 
The inveterate jokester's humor was usually directed at himself. 
"I found a delivery in my flaw," he once explained after coming out of a slump. 
During his 10 years in Kansas City, Quisenberry was a pivotal figure in many of the team's greatest moments. He got the save in the famous "Pine Tar Game" against the New York Yankees after Billy Martin protested George Brett's bat. And he got the vietory in a 2-1 win over St. Louis in the sixth game of the '85 World SBries. 
"lie was not only a very big part of the great success we enjoyed in Kansas City. but he was as line a man as I've ever met." said Schuerholz, the Hoyals' GM during their cham­pionship seasons. 
"The transformation from modestly succBssful college pitcher to dominant major league closer took place 
because of Dan's determina­tion, intBlligence and competi­tive spirit. When we lose some­one like Dan Quisenberry. we have lost too much." 
In 1986, Quisenberry's sinkerball seemed to desert him. Once-harmless grounders began turning into line drives. He was released in 1988, spent a year with St. Louis and then retired after a brief stay with the San Frandsen Giants. 
Bret Saberhagen, his team­mate in Kansas City from 1984­1988, called him "a really groat human being." 
Domer Run -The annual Domer Hun is scheduled for October 10 at 11 a.m. Race begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 mile. f> mile run and 2 mile walk. Pancak1~ breakfast after the race. RPgister in advance at HeeSports. It costs $6. Proceeds bnnPiit the Catherine Peachey Foundation. Inc. for Breast Cancer B.Psearch. For more information, contact B.eeSports at I -6100. 
One Night Badminton ­Sign-ups begin Sept.28 for the one night tournarn~mt. SinglPs and doubles divisions. The tournamPnt will be held on October 9 at 6 p.m. at the Hoi/'s Sports Hncreation Center. For more information, contact RceSports at 1-6100. 
Saint Mary's Track ­Anyone interested in track and fieli:f should attend a meeting on October 6 at 8 
p.m. in Ang1~la Atheltic Facility on the c:ampus of Saint Mary's College. 
Men's Basketball Season Sale -Get your season tickets at the JoycP Center Gate 10 Box Office for $44. Bring your ID and come anytime between September 30 -October 2 from 8 a.tn. to 5 p.m. For more information call 1-7356 
Women's Boxing Notice ­Informational meeting will be held Oct. 7 at 7:30 p.m. in the Joyce Center Boxing Room (enter Gate 3 and the stairs down to the room are located on the opposite wall of the Fo.otball and Basketball ortices. For more informatio please call HecSports at 1­6192. 
Center. We're a two-year, transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole 
Website: http:/ /www.hcc-nd.edu new world for your son or daughter. E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
Right for you, right from the start. 
--------------------_,.----~--------------~ ---~ --~ 
Thursday, October I, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
Calendar of Events 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, October 5, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Friday's, 12 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Sunday, October 4, 4:00 p.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Freshman Retreat #18 (October 9-10) Sign-ups 
Monday, Oct 5, Deadline 103 Hesburgh or 112 Badin, or see your Rector. Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lewis, Sarin, McGlinn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Zahm 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, Oct. 6, 7:00-8:30 p.m. Badin Hll Chapel 
Seven Gifts of the Holy Spirit Part 3: Knowledge 
Wedesday, October 7, 7:00 p.m. Log Chapel Lecture by Dean Carolyn Woo 
Cross-Cultural Ministry 
Career Planning and Preparation Seminar for traditionally under-represented groups Co-sponsored with the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
NDE #52 Team Retreat 
Sunday, October 4, 10:00 am-8:00 pm, St. Joe Hall 
27th SUNDAY OF ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, October 3 
30 minutes after the game Rev. James Foster, C.S.C. 45 minutes after the game (Stepan Center) Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Sunday, October 4 
8:00a.m. Rev. Nicholas Ayo, C.S.C 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Timothy Scully, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas Doyle, C.S.C. Vespers -7:15 
Rev. Peter Rocca 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Habakkuk 1:2-3; 2:24 2nd Reading 2 Timothy 1:6-8, 13-14 Gospel Luke 17:5-10 
It's a Matter of Life 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
Some of you know, I was born eighth in a family of ten children. My parents had their first nine children in ten years. At our house, we used to joke that my dad would come home from work and ask my Mom, "What's new?" and she would reply, "Look in the Crib!" As big as my family is, however, most of you know that it wasn't that unusual in the days follow­ing World War II. Ten, twelve, fifteen, even twenty kids wasn't unheard of. It was a time when you simply took what was comin' to ya. My Mom and Dad didn't have much money. My Dad was a Catholic grade school teacher and my Mom was kept mightily busy at home, as you might imag­ine. But it wasn't about money, it was about life. And when my Dad died six months before their tenth child was born, and some suggested she give up the baby, Mom's decision wasn't about economics, it was about life. She would keep that child because it wasn't about convenience, or even security, it was about life. 
This is Respect Life Week here at Notre Dame. And during this time we remind ourselves that indifference will never be enough. To sit idly by, will never be enough. But it isn't only about the major cultural threats to life that we have to concern ourselves. If we are as we say we are, "Pro­life", then we need to promote and support life wherever we are. 
It will never be enough to say that I am opposed toabortion, and then fail to care for the needy child. It will never be enough to stand in protest against capital punishment and not concern ourselves with the care of the death row inmate. It will never be enough to preach against euthenasia and never visit the sick, and the suffering, and the dying. It is no small task we undertake. We who call ourselves pro-life must stand up for life, for all life! We must stand in solidarity with thousands and mil­lions who disdain the culture of death which pervades our time. 
We must stand in solidarity with the millions of children whose lives were cut short by abortion. We must stand in solidarity with the young women who, out of fear, seek abortion because they see no other way out of an unexpected pregnancy. We must stand in solidarity with those whose lives are somehow deemed unworthy. We must stand in soli­darity with the prisoner, and the death row inmate. We must stand in soli­darity with the mentally and physically disabled. We must stand in soli­darity with those who are sick with terminal or seriously debilitating ill­nesses. We must stand in solidarity with all in whom the sanctity of life is denied. 
We are, all of us, called by God to stand together against death, and to stand together for life. In his 1995 encyclical, Evangelium Vitae, Pope John Paul II reminds us: 
We are facing an enormous and dramatic clash between good and evil, 
death and life, the "culture of death" and the "culture of life." We find 
ourselves not only "faced with" but necessarily "in the midst of" this 
conflict: we are all involved and we all share in it, with the inescapable 
responsibility of choosing to be unconditionally pro-life. 
It is no small matter. It is truly all that matters! If we are to be truly pro-life, however, we do not stand only with the unborn, the prisoner, the infirm and the elderly. We must, as believers in the Lord Jesus, stand together for one another. We must acclaim and affirm the life in ourselves, and in others! It is for us to see and nurture and support the life in all those around us. We must stand with our enemies as well as our friends. We must stand with our roommates, with our professors, with our families, and with all men and women, regardless of race, creed, nationality, or ori­entation. 
John Paul II urges each of us, in Eva11gelium Vitae, to adopt a new scale of values-to give primacy to being rather than lzavi11g, to persons rather than tlzings. "This renewed life-style," he tells us, "involves a pass­ingfrom indifference to concern for otlzers, franz rejection to acccpta11ce of tlzcm." Together, says the Holy Father, "we sense our duty to preach the Gospel of Life, to celebrate it in the Liturgy and in our whole existence, and to serve it" through "programs and structures which support and promote life". As Christians, we are people of life. Now, more than ever, we are called to live what we profess! 
CJ 
a 
~ 
~ ~ 
b 
~ ~ ~ 
~ 
~ 
a 
~ 
~ 
• • • 

-
-
(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

r---------...
&3......-------~--------~---~--------------~--~--­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 1, 1998 
• MAJOB lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cubs' rookie likely
Smoltz tames Cubs in 7-1 win 
to start game three 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA 
John Smoltz's dominating performance on the mound was expected. Michael T!lcker's power at the plate wasn't. 
Smoltz became the win­ningest pitcher in postseason history, allowing only five hits in 7 2-3 innings as the Atlanta Braves cruised to a 7-1 victory over the Chicago Cubs in Game 1 of the NL division series Wednesday. 
Tucker, who had just two home runs in the past three months and was dropped to eighth in the batting order, got the offense going with a two­run homer in the second 
.­
inning . 

Ryan Klesko turned the game into a rout with a sev­enth-inning grand slam against Matt Karchner, but the runs really weren't needed with Smoltz on the mound. He pushed his record to 11-3 in 21 postseason starts. breaking the record for wins shared with Whitey Ford and Dave Stewart. 
Smoltz was picked for Game 1 based on his playoff success and a 12-1 record in the sec­ond half of the season. The Braves' pitching is so deep they have 20-game winner Tom Glavine and four-time Cy Young winner Greg Maddux ready to go in the next two games. 
Smoltz was 17-3 and had the best winning percentage in the majors during the regular sea­son -a remarkable perfor­mance considering he had elbow surgery in December and went on thedisabled list twice early in the season. 
The Cubs. weary from a three-team wild-card race and forced to win a one-game playoff against San Francisco on Monday, were in a full­scale letdown mode, going down meekly in their first playoff game since 1989. 
Through the first seven innings, Smoltz allowed only one runner past first ­Sammy Sosa on a seventh­inning double. Tyler Houston led off the eighth with a homer to end the shutout, and Smoltz left to a thunderous ovation after getting the next two outs. 
Sosa, cheered each time he came to the plate, couldn't add to the 66 homers he hit during the regular season. He went 2­for-4 with a double. 
During the regular season, the Cubs had more success against the Braves than any NL team, winning six of nine games. But the postseason is more familiar territory for Atlanta. which has captured an unprecedented seven straight division titles. 
Mark Clark (9-14), a stopgap starter for the Cubs, pitched respectably in his first playoff appearance, pitching into the seventh and allowing two earned runs on seven hits. But respectable isn't good enough when going against Smoltz in the postseason. 
The playoffs have become so blase in Atlanta that Game 1 drew only 45.598 -about 
4.000 short of sellout at Turner Field. There were luge sections of empty blue seats in the upper deck on a cloudy, gray day, the fans sending the message they don't intend to get serious until the Braves are in their fifth World Series of the1990s. 
The Braves took the first step Wednesday with a sur­prising home run from Tucker, who hit a disappointing .244 and had only one homer after Aug. 9. In the second inning, Clark retired the first two hit­ters before Jose Hernandez bobbled Andruw ·Jones' grounder for an error. 
That turned out to be a criti­cal mistake. After Jones stole second, Tucker worked the count to 3-2 before hitting a fastball into the right-field seats. Clark had a base open and Smoltz up next, but he chose to throw a pitch that drifted right over the heart of the plate. 
The Braves added another run in the sixth on Jones' sac­rifice fly, then blew it open in the seventh. After three walks loaded thebases, Klesko hit a 3-2 pitch for a grand slam that made it 7-0. 
At least Chicago was able to rest Terry Mulholland and Rod Beck, who had performed ironman duties in the previous two games. Felix Heredia, Karchner and Mike Morgan worked in relief. 
Cleveland 9 Boston 5 

CLEVELAND Mike Hargrove went nose-to-nose with umpire Joe Brinkman. Dwight Gooden had to be restrained fromdo­ing the same. 
And one of the wildest first innings in postseason history was just beginning. 
The inning between the Boston Red Sox and Cleveland Indians in Game 2 of their first-round AL playoff series Wednesday took 37 minutes to complete. 
It ended with Boston ahead 2-1 after a bizarre sequence that included 50 total pitches, three walks, two stolen bases, two passed balls, one hit bat­ter, one error, one sacrifice fly and 45,229 fans in a frenzy. 
"It's probably one of the 
weirdest things I've ever 
seen," Indians first baseman 
Jim Thome said after 
Cleveland beat Boston 9-5 to 
even the first-round AL playoff 
series at 1-1. "Our fans were 
cheering Mike and Doc 
[Gooden] and booing the ump 
at the same time. It was 
weird.'' 
Boston leadoff hitter Darren 
Lewis walked on four pitches, 
the first three of which were 
close to the strike zone. 
The fans booed louder with 
each call by home plate 
umpire Joe Brinkman, and 
Gooden came ofT the mound 
after ball three. Hargrove 
came out of the dugout and 
began a heated argument with 
Brinkman. 
The umpire ejected the man­
ager, who departed to a stand­
ing ovation. 
Then came ball four to Lewis 
and a walk to John Valentin, 
triggering another chorus of 
boos. 
Gooden struck out Mo 
Vaughn, the hero of Boston's 
11-3 win 
Tuesday, but then Nomar 
Garciaparra lined a double 
high off the left-field wall. 
Lewis scored and Valentin was 
waved home. The relay throw 
from shortstop Omar Vizquel 
appeared to have him beat 
and catcher Sandy Alomar 
applied a sweeping tag. 
Brinkman called Valentin 
safe. but replays showed he 
was out. 
"It wasn't even close," 
Alomar said. Gooden went 
wild. and was quickly ejected 
by Brinkman. 
"Sure, I wanted those early 
pitches," Gooden said. "Arter 
that call, I told him. 'Hey, let's 
get in the game.' I didn't know 
he tossed me." 
Gooden tried to get to 
Brinkman, but was steered to 
the dugout. Once there, he 
fired his glove and hat toward 
home plate. 
"I told him, 'Here's my glove 
and hat, you go play the 
game,"' Gooden said. 
The bottom of the first was 
hardly uneventful. 
Kenny Lofton drew a leadoff 
walk and stole second against 
knuckleballer Tim Wakefield. 
Lofton advanced to third as 
Garciaparra made a back­
handed stop of a grounder at 
short and threw out the 
speedy Vizquel at first. Lofton 
scored on a sacrifice fly by 
David Justice. 
Manny Ramirez was hit by an errant knuckler, then went to second and third on consec­utive passed balls by Jason Varitek, who struggled to cor­ral two more sharp-breaking 
pitches. 
• Svmm;; TBnilA 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Chicago's Kerry Wood, who hasn't pitched in a month because of a sprained elbow lig­ament. was put on the Cubs' postseason roster Wednesday and is likely to pitch Game 3 of the NL division series against the Braves. 
The Cubs hedged a bit by going with 11 pitchers on their 25-man roster, but they expect Wood to be on the mound Saturday after an encouraging performance in the Arizona Instructional League. 
"''m excited to get back out there," Wood said. "It's been kind of frustrating of late to be watching the team go out there and play in some big games and not being able to be a part of it." 
Wood, who has been out since Aug. 31. pitched two 2-3 score­less innings in the instructional league Monday, allowing three hits and striking out three in the Arizona game. lie threw 51 pitches, his fastball reaching 95 mph. 
Mark Clark (9-14) started Game 1 for the Cubs, and Kevin Tapani (19-9) will work in Game 2 Thursday. When the series shifts to Wrigley Field, the Cubs expect to go with Wood (13-6, 3.40 EHA), the only Chicago starter with an ERA below 4.00. 
Wood tied a major league record in May by striking out 20 batters in a nine-inning game. The 21-year-old righty wound up third in the league with 233 strikeouts despite missing the final month. 
"We're pleased to be able to activate him," manager Jim Riggleman said. "We're not sure how he's going to be con­trol-wise. He hasn't pitched in a major-league game in a while." 
The Cubs aren't planning a strict pitch count for Wood. Instead, they will let him work as long as his mechanics arc sound. 


"It's not so much how many pitches he throws," Higgleman said. "It's the position of the arm when he's throwing. There's a certain spot that he reaches which is a problem. When he's not doing the mechanical flaw, he's fine." 
Given the weary state of Chicago's pitching staff after a stretch drive that included a wild-card playoff victory over San Francisco on Monday night, a healthy Wood would be a major boost. 
lie pitched three times against the Braves -all Chicago victories-going 1-0 with a 2.18 ERA and 20 strike­outs in 20 2-3 innings. He has been especially tough at Wrigley Field. winning nine of 10 decisions with a 2.97 ERA. 
Riggleman said he wouldn't change his decision to use Wood based on where the best­of-5 series stands after two games. 
"The only reason he wouldn't start is just if I feel Atlanta is swinging the bats extremely well against our right-handed pitchers. Then I'd go to (lefty Terry) Mulholland," the manag­er said. 
"The likelihood is that he will pitch. The decision will not be made whether we're down 0-2, up2-0or1-1." 

Q: When was the last 
time the Braves won the World Series? 
~66I :v 
-
A 
SPECIAL INVITATION 


Announces the Following Introductory Offers of ••. 
r---,r---,r---,r---,r---,
I 10%off I I $9 I I $25 I I $l5 I I $25 I 
1 1 1 Manicure 1 1 Mantcure or 1 1 Ftlls 1 1 Full Set 1 Aveda I Regular I I Pedicure I I Regular I I Regular I
I Retail I ' $55
5

L---.J L-~-.J LR!!'1!!!:!1.7.J L-~-.J L---.J 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
Stylist: Thi.< offer NOT valid with Cindy. 

Please u.<e the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence 

and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 
No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires 10/10/98. 
ATRIA SALON 1357 N.lronwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 
Thursday, October 1, 1998 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 

will lecture on 
-America's Role in the Post-Cold War World 

Friday, October 2, 3 p.m. Hesburgh Center for International Studies Auditorium 
-' 
Senator Bradley's address is the third of five public policy addresses he will deliver on campus this fall. Live on the web at: http://www.nd.edu/-webcast 
( I 
----------~--.--------.------~~--~--~--~------~----~--------------------..----~--------------------------.--..... 
page 22 

Recovered Elway vows return to game 
Associated Press 

DENVEH 
A week off not only helped heal John Elway's ailing hamstring. It made him real­ize how much he missed the game. 
Vowing he will start in Sunday's home game against Philadelphia, the Denver Broncos quarterback prac­ticed on Wednesday and reported no ill effects. He was upgraded to probable on the team's injury report. 
"It seems to be getting bet­ter and better." Elway said. "The week off definitely helped me. It's a lot better today." 
Elway strained his right hamstring against Dallas on Sept. 13, aggravated the injury against Oakland the following week. then felt a twinge in the hamstring dur­ing pregame warmups against Washington last week and spent the game on the sideline. 
Elway. 38. was a full par­ticipant in Wednesday's practice, although he didn't do rollouts or bootlegs at full speed. 
"We didn't test him, we didn't sprint him for obvious reasons," coach Mike Shanahan said. "But this is the furthest he's been along at this stage of the week since the Oakland game. 
"He practiced good and 
said he felt pretty good. He's 
doing a little work on a 
treadmill right now, so hope­
fully it just keeps on getting 
better. Unless there's a 
major setback in the next 
couple of days, I'd be very 
surprised if he's not able to 
go." 

Asked after the morning walk-through if he intended to miss another game, Elway said. "No. I don't get paid to sit on the bench. You want to play. I was playing well before I got hurt, so I want to get back out and start playing again. 
"When you don't miss many games, as I haven't, and then you miss one, it kind of puts everything back in perspective. So every once in a while it's good for the psyche to miss a game, because then you realize how much you enjoy playing
it." . Bubby Brister replaced Elway in the second quarter of the Oakland game and engineered a 34-17 victory. Last week. Brister made his tirst start since 1995 and led the Broncos (4-0) to a 38-16 win. Shanahan and the Broncos medical staff have attributed Elway's pregame sensation last Sunday -which the quarterback described as a "pop" -to scar tissue breaking loose. The Broncos were in good health for the game against winless Philadelphia 10-4). Offensive lineman David Diaz-Infante is the only play­er likely to miss the game. He's listed as questionable with a knee injury. "It takes a little longer for offensive linemen to get their legs back in shape." Shanahan said. "David is making a lot of progress, but I don't know if he'll be ready for this weekend. I antici­pate him being pretty close to full-go for Seattle (the fol­lowing week)." 
Thursday, October 1, 1998
The Observer • SPORTS 
Yankees take2-0 lead over Texas 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK 
Add the name of Shane Spencer to the long list of New York Yankees legends. 
An unknown a month ago. the compact rookie capped his amazing September by homer­ing in his first postseason at­bat to lead Andy Pettitte and the Yankees past the Texas Hangers 3-1 Wednesday night for a 2-0 lead in their AL divi­sion series. 
Pettitte atoned for a season­long struggle and pitched per­fectly into the fifth inning. Texas led the league in batting this year, but managed only five hits in a Game 1 shutout and got only live more against the AL's top staff. 
The Yankees will try to sweep the best-of-5 playoff on Friday night at Texas. David Cone (20-7) starts for New York against Aaron Sele (19­11 ). 
Spencer got his chance to start in left field partly because of an ominous medical report on Darryl Strawberry. Told that doctors had "found some­thing" on his colon, Strawberry left the team for more tests Thursday. It is not known when he will rejoin the Yankees. 
Spencer seemed to catch the Rangers by surprise, much the same way he startled Yankees fans with his power down the stretch. He hit a solo home run off Hick Helling in the second inning, then singled ahead or Scott Brosius' homer for a 3-0 lead in the fourth. 
The sellout crowd of 57,360 rewarded the rookie with standing ovations all night, tho way fans used to respond to the likes of Heggie and Mickey. At 26. tlw humble, aw-shueks Spencer had to be urged by his teammates to take a curtain call. 
Spencer had spent eight full seasons in the minors before finally getting his chance in the majors this year. lie made three roundtrips between Triple-A Columbus and Nnw York. 
Promoted for a fourth time on Aug. 31, he hit eight home runs in September and three grand slams -joining Babe Huth, Lou Gehrig and Jon DiMaggio among the seven players in team history to hit three slams in an entire year. 
Spencer. who hit 119 homers in the minors. earned AL play­er of the week honors for hit­ting six homers in the last week. But his home run against Texas drew the biggest cheer yet. 
Helling, who emerged to tie for the league lead with 20 wins, struck out three of New York's first six batters and threw two fastballs past Spencer for called strikes. On a 2-2 pitch, however. Spencer launched a drive over the 399­foot marker in left-center field for the game's first run. 

Spencer quickly ran around the bases with his head down, nearly running past home plate when he arrived. The Yankees spilled out of the dugout to greet Nnw York's neWI1St hero. 
Spencer did it just the way they teach in the minors in his nnxt at-bat, grounding a hard single up the middle. Brosius followed with a drive over the wall in right-omter. 
With his big "1.000" average still posted on the scoreboard, Spencer took a called third strike in his !ina! at-bat. 
P1~ttitte protected the lead, setting down the lirst 12 bat­ters with ease. Juan Gonzalez doubled to begin thn fifth and later scored on a single by Ivan Hodriguez for Texas' only run. 
Pnttitte gave up three hits in seven innings, striking out eight and walking none. He improved to 6-0 lifetime at home against Texas and ended a slide in which he won just four of his last 12 starts, leav­ing his spot in the postseason rotation in doubt. 
.Jeff Nelson got two outs in the eighth and Mariano Hivera closed for his second save of the series. 
Aside from Spencer and Brosius, Helling had little trou­ble. lie pitched six innings and struck out nine. As in Game 1, the bottom of the order did most or the damage for the Yankees. 

:~~''J'23456789RHE 
Texas i'''Q; 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 5 0 New York-;i!~Jo: 1 o 2 o o o o x 3 a o 
Class of 1999... 
RUSH FORI 

COLLEGE NIGHT EVERY THURSDAY 


Thursday, October I, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• HOCKEY 
Irish hockey prepares for 1998-99 CCHA season 
By TED BASSANI after a 
in goal for th1~ before coming to Notre Dame, Spom Writer splendid Irish, who has whilo Henning played for the junior sea­since signed with United States under-18 national 
Following last s1~ason 's son in the Calgary Flames team last year. return to resjwetability, tlw which lw organization. Also Also, if pedigree speaks any­I 'J9X-99 Irish hoekey team will ~~~ d tlw departing was cen­thing of his talents, then we can ho looking to ostahlish itself as team in ter Lyle Andrusiak, expect a lot from Brett a strong !'oren in the Central goals (25) whose nxperience Henning, whose fathor Lorne C:ollngiat1~ lloekoy Association. and powor­will be missed at was a member of two Stanley 
Fourth-year head coach Dave play goals the center position Cup Championship teams in Poulin, a nwmber of the Irish (12). this season. Center 19XOand 19X 1 (New York hrH:kny squad sonw I 6 y!Htrs Senior Steve Noble, who Islanders). ago, will again look to lead this Brian Uriek captained the Irish One aspect of the team's talented crop of players to the begins his squad last season, game which improved greatly (l rII Ill is(~ d Ian d 0 r l h (l cCll A fourth sea-also graduated, last season and will hopefully Playoffs. Last ynar marked liH~ son as a and has since continue to improve is the first limn in Poulin's brinl' starter for signed with the team's physical play. The Irish coaching 1:arenr thal his loam the Irish at Chicago certainly have size on defense, madwd that dnslination. forward. Blackhawks orga­embodied in Nathan Borega 
Last snason saw the Irish Last sna­
nization. and Hyan Clark. improvn in many aspnets of son, Urick 
Of all the four The Irish can also look to thnir overall garnn,· but none led tho 
players from last junior forward John Dwyer to more so than speeial teams, team in 
year's team not be a valuable addition to the power play and penalty killing. plus-minus 
returning, none offense with his tough, physical In conl'1~nmrn play last snason, ratio (+14). 
will be more sorely play which netted him seven Notn~ Dame ranked fourth lout Senior 
missed than fresh­goals last season. of ei1W1~n I on both tlw IHIW!~r Bnnoit 
man defenseman Sophomore forward Matt Van play and tlu~ penalty kill. Cotnoir will 
Mark Eaton. Eaton Arkel can always be f(mnd hus­Also, the Irish allowed tlw oncn again 
was the CCHA's tling and grinding it out on the second-fewest short-handed anchor thn 
rookie of the year boards and in the corners as goals (2), while tallying the sec­defnnse 
for 97-98. What well, thus creating offensive ond-most short-handed goals corps, 
Eaton brought to chances for his teammates. llwmsnlves (7). especially 
the ice for the Irish Speed is also essential for a Nothing, however. puts a on spncial 
as a freshman was team to play winning hockey. team on llw national map morn t n am s . phenomenal. His While Mark Eaton certainly will 
ynar. .Junior Nathan Borega will
than big wins, nspncially on the where he timl 1'11r tho team lead poise and smooth skating on . be missed, the Irish have plenty
bring his physical gamn to the
road. Noln~ l>anw exenll!~d on last season with throe short­defense was incredible for of speedsters who can turn a
icc once again this year, help­
tlw road last season, winning handed goals, in addition to someone of his playing experi­game around at any moment.
ing solidify the Irish along the
big games at Michigan (in llw scoring four power-play goals. ence. His ability to go end to On1~ such player is junior center
blue line.
playoffs), Ohio Stale, Michigan Senior Forrest Kar-r brings end and create offensive Ben Simon, whose end to erld
A talentPd sophomore elass
State, and Wist"onsin, all or with him three ynars experi­chances was also way beyond rush against Bowling Grnen last 
returns to the ice this ynar,
whom qualiried for last year's encn in goal; hownvor. this sea­his years. Over the summer, year was probably tlw single
with no one's return morn
NCAA tournanwnt. son will h1~ his first as tho Notrn Eaton signed a thre1~-year con­most memorabln play of thn
anticipatod than that of for­
l.asl yPar's ganw in YVisconsin Damn starting goalterHier. tract to play in the Philadelphia season.
ward Dan Carlson. Carlson 
was onP whil"h saw thl' honw ThP junior rlass rnturning for Flyers organization. Another forward who can
also tied for the team load in
fans booing thPir tPam aft1•r tlw Irish is headod up by nmter With the departure of two supply the team with a boost of
short-handed goals last season
IH'ing railroadPd by tlw Irish on Bnn Simon and forward .Jon starting eentermen and a the SJJPnd is Dan Carlson, who can 
(:~). as well as providing groat
thPir homP ir1~. sonwthing to Dusbahnk, both of whom playml starting goaltender. the outlook stickhandln on the rush as well 
SJHH~d and a gritty game up
kPI'Jl in mind whPn tlw Irish last ynar for thn Unitml States is bright for the incoming fresh­as anyone on the tnam. Joe
front and in the cor.ners.
opPn tlwir season Saturday junior national team. Simon men. Jeremiah Kimento will Dusbabek is another player
Although the Irish will see
night in that sanw arnna. lnd tho tnam in assists and begin tho season as the third­with tlw spned and scoring
many of last year's starters
Many playPrs who played k1~y points last year (2X. :~7). string goaltender behind Karr touch the Irish will need to
back on the ice this year, tlw
roll's in last y1wr's success will lhrsbabnk's aggressivn stylP of and sophomore Kyle Kolquist. compnte against the big boys in
squad did suffer some signifi­
r·pturn to lh;• icP this season. play and his groat spnnd should By next season, however, the the CCIIA. 
cant losses during the past off­
Senior forward AnikPl providP a trPmemlous boost to start11r's job will be wide open Expnctations arn high this 
snason. One player lost was
llhadphale returns to the in~ the Irish ofTenso this coming once again. year for this talentnd bunch of
Matt Eisler. a four year startor 
Sam Cornelius will look for players, as they should be. This 

sorno playing time on defense this season. Cornelius played for Edina lligh School in Edina, Minnesota, where current Notre Dame playors Dan Carlson and Neal Johnson also played. 
With two centers from last season gone, the Irish will look to froshmen centers David Inman and Brett Henning to pick up some or the slack. Inman played junior hockey with the Wexford Haiders team consists of a good mix of experienced upperclassmen and talented young players. With the right coaching and leadership, Notre Dame can look to assert itself as ·a power in college hockey. 
Following up on last year's playoff appearance is a must. Expect the Irish to continue their ascendancy through the ranks of the CCIIA by perform­ing well in the toughest rinks in the country.

MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER 
Cordially invites students of all majors to attend a presentation on the 
lnvesttnent Banking Financial Analyst Program 
Thursday, October 1st, 7:00p.m. Center for Continuing Education (lower level) 
Interviews: November 9th 
\tVH'\tV.IJlS. C0/11 
/'vi!JJgon Stonley IJeon Witter is till Equol Optwrtunity EnitJ!oyer 
~---------------------------, 
/\Jotu 'Z)ame 'J-ilm, C:Zele11ision, and C:Zheatze pzesents 

61f nessee Williams 

Wed., Oct. 7 7:30p.m. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 7:30p.m. 
Fri., Oct. 9 7:30p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 1 0 7:30p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 11 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats $9 Seniors $8 All Students $6 

Tickets are available altaforlune Studenl Center Ticket Ofllce MasterCard and Visa orders caii631·812B 
_________________________j 
.... 

Morgan Sranley Dean Winer is a service mark of Morgan Stanley Dean Willer & Co. 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 1, 1998 
TheND Accounting Association &:~AT&T 


All Accounting and Finance Majors. Others also welcome. 
Dan Hesse-CEO of AT&T Wireless Services and ND Grad Class of 1976 
Joe McCabe, Financial Vice President of AT&T Consumer Markets Division October 1, 1998, 7:00pm Monogram Room 
People Receive AT&T Prepaid Calling Cards! 
Refreshments to Follow. 
se feel free to e-mail Stephanie Lynn on slynn@att.com or Kevin Manning on kevin.manning@attws.com with questions. 
_l.______________ 

Thursday, Ocrober I, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• SAINT MARY's GotF · 
Podraza leads SMC golf in campaign 
THE BElGER MANSION INN 
MICHIANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! 
Voted best entree "Taste ofMichiana", 1998. Big city dining with small town atmosphere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservations accepted. 
We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 
317 LINCOLNWAY EAST* MISHAWAKA* INDIANA 255-3939 

• WOMEN'S CREW 
Women's cre-w prepares for varsity 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

The Notre Dame Women's rowing team is preparing for their first season as a varsity sport by practicing daily. 
By NOAH AMSTADTER our program grow," said 
Sports Writer Boulac. 
Having a new coach is not 

When thinking about the the only difference in this sea­
University of Notre Dame, one son's team. The athletes no 
of the first characteristics longer have to fund the pro­
that comes to mind is tradi­gram, the University has pur­
tion. chased new equipment, and 
Whether it be on the play­the athletes now have access 
ing field, in the chapel or to tutoring and other benefits 
even in the dorms, various of the Life Skills program. 
rituals occur here that those The most important change, 
of our parents generation also as Stone points out, is in the 
practiced. In a place where level at which the women are 
such as this, it is a privilege training. 
to watch a new tradition in On the club team if a 
the making. That is exactly woman paid her dues and 
what is occurring this year as said she wanted to row, she 
the Notre Dame Women's was going to row. Here that's 
Rowing team is beginning its not really true. ·In order to 
inaugural season as a varsity make a racing boat you have 
sport. to train pretty hard. you have 
Today, most large colleges to be competitive during prac­
are careful to be in accor­tice, and you have to show 
dance with Title IX, a law that you have the ability to 
which requires gender equity compete at the Division I level 
in college athletics. Notre said Stone. 
Dame is .no exception. Having This new level of training 
already had a competitive has led to a positive outlook 
club team in place, the deci­for the coming season. "We're 
sion was made to make the definitely at a higher level at 
women's rowing team Notre this point in the fall than we 
Dame's 13th women's varsity were last yearE We have a lot 
sport. more competition within our­
"We look at in a way that selves and we're definitely 
the women's participation working a lot harder," said 
numbers would increase and team co-captain Katy Fox. 
would give us a viable pro­While Fox has stood out on 
gram that was growing at the the team so far, having rowed 
collegiate level," said Notre over the summer, other ath­
Dame Assistant Athletic letes are also being looked 
Director Brian Boulac. upon to contribute. Coming 
After the decision was made up from last year's novice to give the program varsity team is Quinn Vanderberg. status. a head coach had to Sophomore Molly Kinder be chosen. After a nation­brings high school rowing wide search. Martin Stone nxperience to thn team. was selected for the job. Colletln Kraft. the team's Stone brings an impressive other eo-captain. is also 
record to South Bend, having won the 1994 Division II championship as coach of the United States Naval Academy. In an eerie coincidence, Stone is a 1990 graduate of St. Mary's College. No, not the one in South Bend but the school in Moraga, California where he was named most valuable oarsman. 
"We were excited to have a coach of his background and stature be interested in our program. He can only help looked upon to contribute. 
One of the unique aspects of rowing is that most athletes have no experience with the 
-
sport coming into college. For this reason a novice team trains and competes along with the varsity. Women with a variety of athletic back­grounds have been successful in the sport. Any women interested in taking up the sport should call Coach Stone at 631-3071. 

By ALEXA HI LAL 
Sports Writer 
What motivates junior Saint Mary's golfer lleathnr Podraza'? According to Saint Mary's head golf coach Teresa Pekarek, sheer competition drives the top shooter this yea1·. 
"The word to describe Heather is competitive," said Pekarek. "It is what separates her from many othflr players. She loves competition." 
In this inaugural season for thr. Saint Mary's goH team, Podraza has helped lead the team to success. however, she is no newcomer to the sport. She has been playing since the second grade. 
"Actually I started with miniature goll'." l'odnLza said. "My dad started me out there and then we played on the reg­ular course together." 
During her freshman year in high school, Podraza disl:ov­ered that girls golf was not ol'fen~d to students. So, she tried out for the boys varsity team and by the end of the sea~ son, was playing in the number fivn spot. For the nnxt four years, Podraza eontinund hnr play in tho number fivn spot and advanced to the state tour­nanwnt. 
Podraza's golf background has helped lwr excel through­out her extonsive career. She has carried much of that with her to tlw Belles gulf team this 
,., .... 
... 

year. 
"Heather brings experience and intensity to the game. She has a lot of natural ability. but she also works h<u·d. She is currently our top shooter." 
Upon attending Saint Mary's, Podraza opted to run for the cross country team because golf was nut available. She is excited about the implementa­tion of the golf program. 
"This program gives Saint Mary's an opportunity to broaden our athletic horizons," Podraza said. "This shows that our athletic program is growing and meeting the wants and needs of tho students." 
Captain Kyle Veltri agrees that Podraza's experience has holp!~d her. 
"She [Podraza) has been well taught by her father. and as a result, plays a solid round of golf." Veltri said. "She is also a great team player." 
Podraza has been a key ele­ment in the Belles' achievn­ments this year. Al'tor shooting an even 100 in the l!mm's first match at Albion College, she improved at Alma College to 
88. She hopes to stay focused and keep impmving. 
"Although I want to bettor my game. ultimately I want to learn how to coach," Podraza said. "I am really interested in pursuing coaching and with Pekarek and my dad setting great examples, I think I will learn a lot." 


IVIed Quad wants t~ see the campus break it dewn. The l~catien f~r this event is ~n IVIed Quad behind PE. 5:00-7:00 Pm DJ and Karaeke

• 

Dance C~ntest Pizza Party 
••Ditch the Dn ond c~me t~ M~d Quod ond get free pizza ond drinks!!! 
Pekarek thinks Podraza has what it takes to be a top com­petitor in the MIM. 
"She is already playing with the top players," Pekarek said. "If she works hard, she has a good chance at earning All­Conference honors. Heather just needs to maintain her play­ing level." 
When asked why she is still playing after such a long career already, Podraza smiles. 
"I love and respect the game because it requires so much patience. I don't have a lot of patience, so it is a real chal­lenge. And, of course, the com­petitiveness of the sport." 
Podraza has based much of her playing style on her father's lessons. It is his game that she trifls to emulate. 
"Of course I admire Tiger Woods -he is confident and works hard," Podraza said. "lie has also brought a lot of new elements to the game. My father has gained my full admi­ration, though. I hope someday I can be as knowledgeable, pas­sionate, and especially patient as he is. Woods is a dose sec­ond." 
Despite all of hflr recent sue­cess, Podraza focuses on the team as a whole. 
"She is a groat team player," Veltri said. "She also has the ability to really put the num­bers up. She plays great golf and you really can't ask for anything else." 
Observer Sports: A Slumber Party 
•
Ill 
the basement 
of 
the 
SOH 

------·----......, 
The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 1, 1998 
This powerful dass will lwlp wn wouldn't have had a shot in tlu~ Irish succeed in the tlw dark at beating them, but
Swimming 
Minnesota Invitational in now I think we can." November and comp1~te against The team's chief goal is long
continued from page 28 
s l rong o p p on<~ n t s I i k e term: They expRct to win the 

--~ -----­

OCTOBER  
2  Fri.  STANFORD  4:00pm  
9  Fri.  NO RELAYS  6:00pm  
23  Fri.  AIR FORCE, ARMY  4:00pm  
NOVEMBER  
7  Sat.  PURDUE, MIAMI (OH)  4:00pm  
14  Sat.  CLEVELAND ST.  2:00pm  
DECEMBER  
3  Thurs.  NO Invitational  10 am· 6pm  
4  Fri.  ND Invitational  10.am-6pm  
5  Sat  NO Invitational  10 am· 6pm  

"Linda was unusual in that she was the most durable dis­tan en swimmer l'vn <~vnr eoarlwd," Weathnrs said. "We are nxtrnmely excited l'or Tara's potential, not just in tlw Big East. but also at tlw NCAA Championships." 
Higgs and classmates Brook<' Davny and Allison Lloyd hav<~ all qualil'ind for tlw Olympic Trials in :woo. Joining them are l'ivn other talented l'n~sh­mnn. 
Mirhigan. 
Tlw <:ombination of faster rPtu rn ing swim nwrs and a strong rn~shman class has pro­l)('lled tlw team to a higlwr l<'v<'l of compditiv<~IH~ss accord­ing to Weatlwrs and senior co­captain /\n1w Iacobucci. This will be helpl'ul when the Irish l'acn many Big Ten tmuns. 
"Wn are that much better this y<'ar," laeobucri said. "Swimming Big Ten teams will bP good for us. Thrnn years ago Big East title for the third con­secutive year and move into the lop 15 teams at NCAA Championships. llelping to achieve this will be three r<1turning NCAA qualifiers, sophomore sprinter Carrie Nixon. junior breastroker Shannon Suddarth and senior breastroker Brittany Kline. 
"Our main focus this season in NCAAs," junior co-captain Liz Barger said. "We're looking to qualify mori~ individuals and 

Save our world recycle The Observer. 

SUNNY DAY REAL ESTATE 11~ P J HARVEY 
How It Feels To Be Something On 9!!n. Is This Desire? 11~ 
BLACK FLYS PRESENTS: 11~ 
CLUB FL YS 2 Various Artists 9!!... 

SPINESHANK 
Strictly Diesel 
11~ 

BELLE & SEBASTIAN THE RABBIT IN THE MOON 1399 
The Boy With The Arab Strap Remixes, Volume 1 ~LY 
Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka (219) 271-0696 
Sale dates: September 27-0ctober 10, 1998. Select titles not available on cassette. 
... 
• 
Thursday, October I, 1998 The Observer • TODAY 
page 27 

DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
EUGENIA LAST 
-

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Robert Redford, Christian Slate; Pabick Swayze, Shelley Wmters 
Happy Birthday: Don't be afraid to start something new. You'll have the discipline to finish whatever you begin. Your sensitive nature coupled with charisma aid you in getting oth­ers to help you in your efforts. Set your mind on achieving your go.ls and you won't be sorry. Your num­bers: 8, 17, 20, 29, 38,47 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's a great day to spend time with family or friends. You'll be entertaining wilh your quick wit and ability to find humor in most situations. A positive attitude will be your guide. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Be looking around at property. A resi­dential move will be profitable. Doo't allow your emotions to hold you bad< from making the right decision con­cerning children. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Emo­tional instability may cause you to 
say things that you'll regret later. Keep your thoughts to yourself when dealing with your mate. Passion. not 
....rguments, should be your focus. 000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Visit a friend who hasn't been too well. You can make significant alterations to your living arrangements if you wmt. Don't let your partner put lUlfeason­able demands on you. 000 ~ LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll be ~ble to contribute a lot to the groups that you work with. Your ability to organize and delegate will be a R'al asset. Be sure to include your mate in your events. 000 

the best day to make decisions about or changes to your personal life. You'll be feeling a little rejected. Take some time to look at your options and consider your career directions. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Take a break. Do things that you enjoy and get involved in groups that will pro­vide you with pbysical activity and social interaction. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Look into home improvement projects. You can better your living standard if you do the work yourself. Don't hesitate to ask older family members for help. Their experience is valuable. 00000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): It's a great day for romance as long as you aren't unnecessarily aggressive with the one you love. Let things flow in a harmonious way and be sur­prised at how compatible you are. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You may want to get a new pet or give extra attention to the one you have. Take time to appreciate your companion's loyalty. Long walks will help you come to terms with your confusion. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll do well in social settings today. Romantic encounters will be fruitful. Don't hesitate to go after an individ­ual who has held your interest for some time now. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Fami· ly members may not be handling their personal situations well. Step in and listen. but refrain from trying to tell them what to do. You could be blamed if you get in the middle of a dispute. 00000 

FOXTROT 
ANo~ER CLEVER MOM, I'M
~tNG SCoTT ADAMS 
OFF To

DID EARL'!' ON WAS 
THE 

To ESTABLISH AN BooK­ELECTRONIC. NEWS· SToRE. LETIER FoR FANS. 
'­

DILBERT 

0~ 11-\£ SURFACE, YOU 
.SEE/¥\ TO Mf>.KE. SOME. GOOD POINTS f>.BOUT TECHNOLOGY ... 
CROSSWORD 
I IMAGINE THIS I HEAR GIVES HIM G\JtTE 11-tERE'S nilS 
GREAT ~EW 
A LEG uP oN l'rfE Boo!< ~~1S CoMPETITioN StNCE :rusT I'D WA&ER CArTooNISTS coME
OVT. 
DoN'T HAVE MUCH P.R. \.... MACHINERY AT l'riEtR 
DISPoSAL. [\ 

'~r llJ. 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): It's not 

i HOW DOES IT FEEL
E 
0 
u ni 
i 
E 
j
·c: 
::J 
~ 
Ill 
~ 
II) 
" 

ACROSS 34 Like loaf bread 
36 Lowering 1 Try out 40 Rainbows 
1 Numinous 
Ulndependcnce 41 Witch hazel is 11 Donny or Marie one Osmond 
43 Previous word 

17 Monk's garment 44 First name in11 Extends cosmetics
11 Charade 41 Parts of joules 
20 Running slow 22"Tag" 47 Siva's consort. In Hinduism
23 Shake 21 More slippery 11 Blonde shade 27 --Bernardino 12 Clip 21 On the main 
14 French family 21 Vanilla, e.g. 
members 30 City founded as 
11 Rebuffs 

Nanlwa 17 Busy 
32 Kings' group, for short 51 Carnival site 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

BILL AMEND 
IT'S ONLY 
1\iE oNL'I' OH, CoME D10 I 
'lliiN& lHAT ON _ MENTION
$12.'15, 

THE ISBN 
Too~ A 

COULD To!' No ONE NUMBER:> 
BARGAIN! 
1\iAT WoU~D COVLD BE I
\.._ 

BE To PluG THAT S'TlffF IN 1\iE STRIP 
SCOTT ADAMS 

BUT '!'OUR £-MAIL ADDRESS REVEALS YOUR NEWBIE IDENTIT'I'. YOU'RE PR.OBt>.BLY A ~ TO BE AN E.LITI5T 
! TECI-INOLOGY 
w 

BIGOT ? I PR E.F ER TO 
Birthday Baby: Once you rna~ practicality, you'll be able to conquer the world. Your fun-loving approach ID life will win hearts but can also lead you down a dismal financial path if yvu don't learn the value of a dollar. Learn early and you will prosper, late and you will struggle. 
(Need advice? Call Eugenia at 900-484-7827. Your phone company will bill you $1.99 per minute.) {') 1998 Universal Press Syndicate 
Al Bundy never had this much fun: Join us at Observer Sports 

eo One with a foil 
12 It's hard to hit 
14"--Bath Book" ("Sesame Street" volume) 
65 Managed 
II Brain stumper 
17 Meat tenderizer 
DOWN 
1 Ancient fortress on the Dead Sea 2 Joshua trees 3 Bronze, e.g. 4 Exceed 5 Arctic dweller I Weak, as a scent 1 Charlotte --, 
V.I. 

I Melodious 1 Big polling news 10 Worried, with 
~~at" 

11 "Buddenbrooks" author 26 Pirate 
21 One side in the 

12 Dish at a royal 
Civil War 

feast 31 Dropout
13 Member of Congress 33 Realtor's concerns
14 Baja California city 
35Galoots 

36 Poisonous gymnastics 
21 Good 

shrub scores 37 Famous surrender site 
24 Girl in a Robert Burns poem 36 Ultimately 39 Rude look 53 Richard Ill's 

42 Window variety need 
46 Unaged Italian 54 Kind of dish 
brandy 56 Gradually fell 
46 Slips on a slip? 58 Gallery 
41 Like Salome 11 Sea shocker 
50 Wagner soprano 63 Sure competitor 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
.... 
-


--------------------------~----­


• l rish icemen to bcgi n • Cubs lose!! Cubs lose!! 
season Saturday at Arlanta routs Chicago 
. 

Wil;consin. 
7-I in National League playoff action. 
. 
p.23 
.

PORTS .
e . . p.20 

THE 
Thursday, October I, 1998
page 28 OBSERVER 
• S~NlMM!HG 

By WES RICHARDSON The men powl~r the Irish Fugate said. "Everyone on the Sporrs Writer are optimistic in thl~ fl'l~nstyle team is looking at these goals about their and IM nVl)nts. very positively, and we're ready 
The men's and women's swim abilities to Freshman Mike to compete." teams will kick off their most succeed with Koss will use The Stanford meet will be the ambitious seasons yet when the current past l'xperience second tinw the Irish have they host defending national squad. Many training with faced a def1~nding national champion Stanford on Friday. returning Tom Byorick champion squad. An exhibition
STANFORD 
The meet at Rolfs Aquatic swimmers (N[) '94) and meet was held against then
ND RELAYS
Center will give each team a experienced women's head champions Auburn in January. chance to assess its capabilities excellent at Miami coach Bailey Friday's meet will also be a and possibly achieve its goals in training sum­Wnatlwrs when learning expnrience and a valu­the face of a difficult schedule. mers, accord­lw competes in able opportunity to compete 
"The schedule has taken a ing to Welsh. the fn)estyle against the best, according to giant step," said Tim Welsh. Sophomore 1wnnts. senior eo-captain Steele men's head coach. "We're Dan Szilier Snason goals Whowell. proud of that. but we also rec­turned in the focus on individ­"If we can be in a position
PURDUE, MIAMI (OH), PITI. 11:30 pm
ognize that it is significantly most notable ual im provn­during tho race where a faster than a year ago. A performance at Minnesota Invitational 11 am •6pm ment. a top­Stanford guy looks over at you tougher schedule means a when he thrnn J'inish at and says. 'Hey, this guy is still tougher record but we will get powered his thl) Big East in the race,' that's good," faster with this schedule." way to a sev­championships Whowell said. 
The teams hope to replace enth place in February and Like the men, the Irish swimmers lost to graduation finish in the entnring Notre women will also need to step up and non-returning team mem­200 breas­Thurs. NO Invitational 11 am~ 6:30pm Danu~ 's first to the challenge of a tougher bers. For the men. this means troke at the swimmers in the schedule and loss of talent in
Fri. NO Invitational 11 am-6:30pm
filling a gap in the sprint u s NCAA champi­the new season. The team freestyle events. With the grad­Nationals in Sat • NO Invitational 11 am· 6:30pm onships in expects to defend its title as Big uation of freestylers Ron Royer, August. Marcl1. .Junior East champions and move up at Brian Najarian and Slade Szilier's time Hay Fitzpatrick the NCAA championships.
same people faster ·than they
Stoltz, the Irish will look to of 2:17.13 earned him a spot on narrowly missml tlw chance to The biggest loss was experi­
were a year ago."
seniors Vice Kuna and Mike Team USA for the World l:omp()t() at the NCAA rhampi­enced with the graduation of
Seven new swimmers will 
Doyl~ and sophomore Buss University Games to be held onships last ynar when he All-American Linda Gallo, hold­
help the team compete against
Preston to lead the sprints. July in Mallorca, Spain. Also swam a consideration time of er of four Notre Dame records
formidable opponents such as
Along with Steve Cardwell, returning are six University 1:39.20 in the 200 l'ml~style. according to Weathers. Hoping
Purdue and Michigan State, as
the Irish men graduated four record holders. "Thn bigg(~st challPngn will be to fill Gallo's role in the dis­
well as a host of challenging
members of last season's Big "We have a lot to be exeited for PvnryonP to scorP points at tance freestyle events is fresh­
teams at the Notre Dame
East squad which included about this year," Welsh said. Big East and for tlw tnam as a man Tara Higgs. 

vs Stanford Volleyballvs. Seton Hall
t . ~ .·.
Saturday, I :30 p.m. 
~ 
vs. Hope College
Tomorrow, 8 p.m.
SPORTS 
q(!t 
Wednesday, 6 p.m . 

vs. Butler 
. Cross Country
ATA 

•
Tomorrow, 7:30p.m. 
Notre Dame Invitational Soccer at W. Michigan Tomorrow, 3:30p.m. at Adrian College 
II• •• S(t
GLANCE 

Today, 4:30 p.m. Saturday, 12 p.m. 






