
-512.61 
JJ 
• Wall St. had another rough day as the Dow 
• Former Irish QB Rick Mirer, after being released 
Tuesday

plummeted 512 points in its second largest 
by the Chicago Bears, may be picked up by the 
one-day drop in history. 
Green Bay Packers. 
SEPTEMBER 1, 

World &Nation • p.5 
Sports • p. 20 
1998 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO.7 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Ruptured gas line causes evacuation of fiv_e buildings 
By M. SHANNON RYAN clogged drain. There was a rushing Saint Mary's Editor · noise as natural gas was released into 
Studying was abandonod, Sega games paused and soap operas put on hold yesterday morning af'tor studonts from Lyons, Hadin, lloward and Morrissey l'tlsidence halls and Bond llall were 1wacuated due to a gas !oak on tlw soutlwiLst path circling Saint Mary's Lakn. 
1\.t approximatoly I0:30 a.m., workers !'rom Dye Meehanicals, a piping con­tractor locatPd in La Porte, Ind., struck tlw lin1~ whill1 digging to repair a Security/Police ears and a
Gas leak forces evacuation 
Notre Dame F i r e

of live buildings on campus. 
Department

St. Mary's Lake 
X 
truck arrived to block off a 
portion of Holy Cross Drive to pedestrians and motorists and to prevent danger in the unlikely event of an explosion 


Th~ OMel'lar/Oavu P~nfng due to gas 

LOOKING AHEAD TO THE SEASON... 
......--.-------...._...-____,Davie talks about '98 campaign 
By BRAD UNTIEDT News Writer 
1\.n upbeat and excited Bob Davie answered students' ques­tions at a student forum at the Joyce Centm· last night. 
The coach began the question and answer session by praising the studnnts for their support and enthusiasm ·for the Notrn Dame football team. lie commented on how positive everyone has been about the upcoming season and how exciting this season should bl). 
"Our goal, obviously, is to be twelve and zero," stated the coach. "That is everyone's goal at the beginning of a season." 
Davie talked of a greater com­mitment 'to excellence that the team, as well as the coaching staff', has displayed in preparing for tho upeoming season. lie stat­ed that then~ has been a raise in the level of standards on and otT the field by the team as a whole, 

'lAM EXCITED. IT'S GOING TO BE A GREAT GAME.' 
Bas DAVIE HEAD FoOTBALL CoACII 
the air. I\ mark drawn to indicate tho digging 
. site was off by about seven feet, accord­ing to Mike Howe II, th1~ Dye Mnehanieals employen who hit thn line. Locators contracted by Northern Indiana Public Serviefl Company (NIP­SCO) wnre responsible for drawing thn line, said John DeLee, director of utili­ties. Crews from NIPSCO arrived at about II a.m. and had clamped the leak by noon. They continued to work into the afternoon on wpairing the line. Notre Dame 
and seemed confident that this can only lead to success for the entire program. Along with this commitment to excellence, he noted, a greater sense of team unity has been stressed through­out practices. 
see DAVIE I page 4 
buildup. 

Students in classes at Bond llall were dis­missed, while residents of Lyons, Badin, lloward and Morrissey halls were denied access to their dorms. Those stu­dents regained access to their rooms after the leak was stopped. 
Many students expressed frustration concerning the inconve­nience. 
"A paper's on my computer right now upstairs," said one Morrissey llall senior. "I still need to correct it bd'onl class today." 
Others had to attend class without their texts or notebooks. 
The strong odor of natural gas was the first sign of the leak, accord­ing to many students. Notre Dame security contacted each dormito­ry and hall rectors con­

• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 
CLC discusses parties, ticket sales 

By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
The problems surrounding camping out for football tick­ets and orr-campus parties highlighted the opening meet­ing of the Campus Life Council last night. Council nwmbers addressed security and safety 
concerns 
s e e n e stemming outside
'IT WAS Dis­

from last the .JoyeoGUSTING ••• 
week's earn­Center 
pouts for IT WAS SOME-o n tickets, and FridayTHING THAT WAS a f t c r .
Friday night's "Hally EMBARRASSING noon: in the Alley," after all
FOR ME TO

at Turtle the stu-C r e e k LOOK AT.' d e n t s Apartments. h a d 
Bill Kirk, depart­assistant vice BILL KIRK eel, they president for ASST. VICE /'RES. FO/l RESIDENCE LJFH left dirty 
Residence Life, addressed the council with the athletic department and campus security's con­cerns with the current ticket distribution system. Although Kirk expressed willingness to work with both the student body and the administrative branches involved, he empha­sized that the tradition of camping out may be endan­gered without changes in the current system. 
"The spirit and the nature of [camping out) is something [we) warmly welcome, but I think it would be irresponsible of me to not share our con­cerns with you," he said. "The concerns the University has arc primarily safety or securi­ty issues. I see this as some­thing that is important to stu-· dent life and I recogniz11 this as important. I want to be very open-minded about this." 
Kirk went on to describn the 
blankets,  
discarded  clothing  and  
destroyed  coolers in their  
wake.  

"It was disgusting," he said. "Just the mess was distressing enough. It was something that was embarrassing for me to look at. It was obvious to me that a lot of alcohol was con­sumed." 
Stressing that alcohol con­sumption during tieket distrib­ution is a violation of both state laws and University reg­ulations, Kirk informed the council that a creative solu­
see CLC I page 4 


-----------------------~­

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
'Do or Do Not ... There is no Try.' 
These eight simple words send a fairly powerful message, especially when spoken by Yoda, a three-foot green refugee. Aside from being one of the fundamental tenets of 
Jedi creed, the mes­ 
sage seems to be one  Christopher Kusek  
preached often enough  Assistant Viewpoint  
right here at ND/SMC.  Editor  
At its core are the  

ideals of strength of will, effort and grit. 
A recent Observer feature focused on select students' thoughts, reflections and regrets from their first year under the gold­en Dome. Looking back on those first few weeks as a Domer, I remember a speech given by a senior administrator whose name comes up often enough in this paper. If I recall correctly, she compared NO to Disney World and spoke of the dangers of "sitting on the bench." 
Well, I was recently lucky enough to have a summer job near Orlando, the home of Mickey himself. The experience taught me a few things, one being that Disney is more than the mouse ears overlooking the proper­ty. When you go to Disney, many of the roads are long, some are windy, and you can get lost. 
O'Hara didn't pick a bad analogy. If I had to pick one thing that I have realized in these last few years, it would be my belief that the only way to find the i better road is to keep looking real hard. Everyone at this school has heard this message repeated in slightly different forms. The freshmen have heard things like, "Get involved!" and "These years will fly by before you can blink." Seniors wield comments like, "I can't believe how fast the last three years went by. Make this last one count." 
Looking at it in a slightly different form, though, are we just wasting our own time if we're caught "on the· bench"? Can our own active participation, alongside the hefty ND price tag, be considered our debt? Honestly, I don't know exactly to whom or what we owe it. Depending on perspective, we may owe it to this school, to our parents, to our­selves, to the kid who didn't receive the cov­eted acceptance letter, to our God or to no one person in particular. Nevertheless, it may be that we do owe. 
To repay this debt, I doubt we need to be successful or mediocre at all we do. It would seem all we could do is try and look real hard. Before this becomes too much like a little league pep talk, I'd better finish up. If there is any bottom line to be found among these words, it'd probably be in this next sentence: If a class, or activity, or sport, or even major really interests you, why not try it and see what happens? 
Believe it or not, odds are that we're all going to be able get jobs -probably real good jobs-when we graduate. So, while we're all living here in the middle of the cornfields, why don't we go and join a club tonight at the activities fair, or go out for an interhall team, or act, or write, or help, or play a section sport or talk about topics including, but not limited to, Michigan. I don't know. Take pictures of the oddly obese squirrels on campus if that's your thing! It doesn't really matter what you do. You could even try to write an Observer column for the first time. Look, it may turn out to stink, but so what? 
If Nike hadn't made it a point to sap all meaning from these three words, I might end with "Just Do It." Instead, I would just have to say that we shouldn't worry so much about "Doing or Doing Not ... just Try." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News Tim Logan Kathleen O'Brien Sports Brian Kessler Viewpoint Eddie Llull  Accent Sarah Dylag Kristie Klitsch Graphics Dave Peining Lab Tech Meg Kroener  

The Ob,erver (USPS 599 2-4000) i> published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, September 1, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from UWire reporls 

Betting on your kid's college education 
TUCSON, Ariz . .----------------. ents could select financial plans with varying 
Pending IRS approval, Arizona will join the ranks of those states that offer prepaid col­lege tuition plans. But while 33 other states have plans that allow parents to invest 

. money for their child's education free from state income tax, Arizona's proposal is the only one that would not insure the invest­ment with taxpayer money. 
Arizona's plan involves more risk than some others, but it also allows greater flexibility. The state Legislature passed the Arizona Family College Saving Program in April 1997, and the Internal Revenue Service is expected to approve the plan soon. 
Verna Allen, executive director of the Arizona Commission of Post-secondary Education, said under the new plan, parents would pick one of three state-approved financial institutions and choose an invest­ment plan. They would have to agree that the capital and interest would only be used toward their child's col­lege education. 
Those who withdraw the money ear"ly or for some other purpose would pay a 15 percent penalty. Depending on the chosen bank or brokerage firm, par­
• SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Unionized service employees strike 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
More than 7 50 Syracuse University service employees are on strike, effective at 5 a.m. Monday. Service Employees International Union Local 200A bargaining committee officials made the official decision late Sunday afternoon at union headquarters, 404 Oak St., according to Local 200A representative Coert Bonthius. Local 200A represents university employees including Food Services, Physical Plant, Parking Services, and custodial and library workers. Some SU faculty members have pledged not to cross picket lines, while others. said they will hold strike­related "teach-ins" or hold classes off-campus. Additionally, unionized workers of Bell Atlantic, Centro transportation and Sysco, a food distribution company, would not cross picket lines into campus, according to Local 200A officials. They also claim SU has been bargain­ing "in bad faith." 
• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Terrorism heightens travel fears 
AMES, Iowa 
Recent strikes by the United States on terrorist organi­zations are affecting more than just the leaders of this country. Americans traveling abroad also are being cau­tious and are trying to avoid being caught in the middle of a terrorist attack. Gary Salmon, manager of Travel and Transport, Inc., 213 Duff Ave., said that recent terrorist acts have not caused a reduced number of international flights with his company, but he thinks people are dubious about whether it is safe to travel. "People are questioning if they should make the trip," he said. "But there have been no cancellations [at Travel and Transport] as far as I'm aware of." Many travelers worry about security, but Sanjeev Agarwal, international studies professor for the College of Business, said security is usually pretty tight, even in times of peace. "[Overseas airport security will usually] not let non-passengers into the airport, will inspect automobiles 114 mile before the airport, have x­ray inspections and have [luggage identification]," he said. 

• SoUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, September 1, 1998 Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Tuesday -(f 82 64 Wednesday -(f 83 61 Thursday -(f 79 59 
• 

Friday -(f 81 63 

COLD WARM STATIONARY
··'·::::;:: 

Pressure

Saturday -(f 84 61 

H L m ESI [Til 0 . (Zl Q i) eJ. u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN f.STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY
t....~:'-./·J'--· ·......./ 

V1a Assoc•ated Press 
Atlanta 91 85 Dallas 92 74 Miami 91 77 Baltimore 95 84 Denver 90 60 New York 82 68
4:~,Qp~Q ~ ~ d 

Baton Rouge 95 88 Honolulu 89 13 Phoenix 104 87 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Chicago 80 71 Indianapolis 88 65 St. Louis 92 73 
V1a AssocJaled Press Graph1csNer 

Columbus 85 62 Los Angeles 80 66 Seattle 74 55 
degrees of potential risk and return for their investment, Allen said. 
Two private brokerage firms, Equitable Financial Group and Securities Management and Research, would offer an assortment o!' mutual funds and market-based investment choices. 
II College Savings Bank would offer the most 
secure option -the unique "Collegesure" Certificate of Deposit plan. Investors would then desig­nate a beneficiary, such as a child or grandchild, and start socking away money. 
Currently, all states with prepaid tuition programs have a provision that guarantees a minimum return, using tax money as insurance. Arizona's plan would not, so parents who choose a market-based plan-although the potential returns are greater -run the risk of los­ing money. 
Allen said with other state prepaid tuition plans, so long as parents deposit money at a certain rate for a specified number of years, the states' treasury depart­ments guarantee the earnings would be enough to send their child to any public university in their home state. 
• GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Court favors fee allocations opposers 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 

A federal appeals court in Chicago ruled this month in favor of five students at the University of Wisconsin­Madison who opposed the use of their mandatory student fee to pay for student activities they were ethically or politically against. A lower court forced the university to stop using student fees to fund organizations such as gay and lesbian clubs and women's rights groups, but the appeals court overturned the decision of the lower court, stating that the university should design a new method to fund student activities. Jesse Strauss, executive vice presi­dent of GW's Student Association, said he sees no problem with student fees being distributed to student groups with different points of view as long as the allocation of funds is in student hands. At GW, the SA Senate is responsible for the allocation of funds to student groups because aU stu­dent senators are elected by their constituents. 
• NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY 
First African-American sorority named 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

The N.C. State chapter of Alpha Kappa Alpha {AKA) just settled into its new house on Fraternity Court. This makes it the first African-American sorority to reside on campus in NCSU history. The house, located at 1402 Varsity Drive, became available last fall when Alpha Phi Alpha (APA) was notil1ed that its ehapter was not in good standing nationally. APA was suspended for up to five years; subse­quently, the lease had to be terminated, according to Drew Smith, associate director of Greek Life. Since the complications occurred in mid -O.ctober, ·the fraternity members were allowed to remain in the house and rent individually. Then the house sat empty until February, when word came out that there was a vacancy. This was a unique opportunity, Smith said, because on Fraternity Court "every chapter is an original tenant." Most of them have been leasing since the 1960s or 1970s. "They don't turn over," Smith added. Three chapters were in the run­ning in March. 
C 1995 Accu·Weather, Inc. 


Tuesday, September I, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Hello there 


Corporation sponsors APMEP program 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR wlll'n tlw childrnn bngin to Vann-llamilton, director of the A<son.uc New' Editor intPract with sludPnts from Miriority Engineering Program. otlwr schools and participation Currently, individuals from Amnritnc·.h. Inc. has ron­and creativity inc:rease. these ethnic minority groups lributnd $(,0,04(, to thn "In grade sc:hool I didn't expn­comprise only about 10 percent Univnrsitv of Nolr!' Damn to riPncn hands-on expnriments so of the bachelors degree gradu­nxpand thP AmPrilnrh l'rn­
ates in engineer­Collngn Minority l~nginnPring ing and about Program IAPMI·:I'). three percent of
'APMEP TRULY
Thn APMI~I' is dnsigrwd to the doctorates. inlroducn an~a minority middiP MAKES THE DIF-Minority women school sltHIPnls to Pngirwc~ring comprise just 1.1.
FERENCE IN NOTRE 
percont of tho DAME'S ABILITY TO ongineering 
and rPiatnd liPids. Nolrl' IJamn 
faculty. gradual!' and undnr­graduatP studc·nts rollaboratn REACH OUT TO THE SUR­workforce and on tlw AI'MEI' on tlw lirst and earn only 2.7 per­
ROUNDING COMMUNITIES
third Wndrwsday of mu:h month cent of the bache­to c:ondut:l a two-way vidno con­TO SHARE OUR BLESSINGS.' lor'~ degrees and fnn•nn• sPssion. less than one per "Its a mini production. !'VI'ry cent of the doetor­
snssion," said .loy Vann­FA11/ER EDWAIW MALWY ales in engineer­llamill.on dirnrtor of tlw minori­lJNIVERSIT'r' PR!i'SIIJ!iNT ing. ty nnginPPring program. SllP In the 1996-97 Pxplairwd that a trPmPrulous school year. 
amount of work got's into plan­it would havl' lwlped me a 13,605 of the 84,230 freshmen ning and PX!'r·uti11g narh sns­whole lot," said Mekashia cmrolling in nnglnnering nation­sion. 
CIH•I1ault, a junior clwmical wido and 6,422 of the 57.(ll0 
Tlw faculty and graduatr• stu­P 11 g i 11 nP r i 11 g stu dc~ n t. She students who n1ceived their dPnts dPVPiop tlw matl'rial and rtlc:allc~d that tlw only exposure bachelor's degrees in engineer­prnscmtation for Pach snssion slw re(:eived was through sum­ing wore minority students. 
and conduct thc•m from a spn­mer programs and smninars at There is no form.alized follow­
c:ially P4Uippnd rlassroom in nearby uniwrsities. up for the program. according IJnBartolo llall. Tlw undnrgrad­"Interest in enginnering to Vann-llamilton, but she said uato studonts arc~ statiorwd at among minority studcmt needs that they have taken a bus trip 
Washington. Adams and Hiloy to bn encouraged before high to the Motorola Museum of sc:hools in South Bnnd to rnin­school." said University Seicnce and that they are plan­forco tlw matPrial. fac:ilitatc~ dis­l'n~sident Father Edward Malloy ning a trip to an amusement cussions and assnss thc~ stu­in announcing the gift. "Without park. She explained that trips dnnts' rnar:tions and participa­such interest, students simply of this sort are not only fun for tion. Tlw soriPs of snssions aro will not choose. nor succeed in, the students, but opportunities intnndnd to culmina[!' in a pro­a high school curriculum that for real-world applications of joc:t by tho studcmts. will sustain them through eol­the physics and engineering 
"It can beeome like~ watching lngo careers. APMEI' truly concepts they are introduced to tnlovision if thny're not ac.tivnly makes the diiTerenee in Notre through the video spssions. ongagnd," said Vann-llamilton. Dame's ability to reaeh out to The Ameritech gift is a com­SpcH:ial c:are is takon to ensure tho surrounding communities to ponent of Notre Dame's $767 that the studcmts' attc~ntion is share our blessings of talented million "Generations" campaign. 
maintairwd. 
students, faculty and adminis­"Ameritech is interested in "It's v1~ry intnresting to sen trators." awarding grants that will help 
that tho kids n~spond mom and Minority groups such as position Indiana as a leader in more~ cmc:h Limn that you go." African-Americans. Latinos and the future," said Kent Lebherz. said Cina Navoa. a scmior c:hmn­American Indians constitute president of Ameritech Indiana. 
ical nnginc~Pring studcHll. She 28.5 ww cent of thr~ college-age "We recognize that our bright­
explained that the~· n~wards from population. but less than six est hope for tomorrow depends partic:ipating in tlw program for perennt of the engineering upon the opportunities provided undorgraduatn studcmts r:omns workforen, aecording to Joy to our youth today." 

GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  ~EADERSHIP  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuitionandeducational  you qualify.  




ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit Room 217 Pasquerilla Center or call 
631-6265 

The Observer/Dame! Feighery 

A student checks out the animal section of the Trent Graphics Art Print and Poster sale in the Notre Dame Room in LaFortune. The sale runs through Friday. 

Colloquy for year 2000 addresses social space 
By STACY CRAFT 
News Writer 

A common complaint from Notre Dame students is that there are not enough places on campus for socializing. In an effort to find solutions to this problem, the University conducted a self study called the Colloquy for the Year 2000. 
"The Colloquy looked at what areas we need improve­ment on," said Joe Cassidy, director of Student Activities. "When it got to campus social life, we ended up seeing we need more social space. However, the report didn't get into deta~ls on what this meant." 
The need for details led to the formation of the Social Space Vision committee, a group of Notre Dame students, faculty and staff who met with consultants contracted by the Office of Student Activities. Cassidy workcld closely with the consultants to find out exactly what sort of social space students are looking for and to discover where the best area of campus to put the spacn would be. 
These questions led to a sur­vey of one-fifth of Notre Dame students and employees. Alumni were surveyed as well and their results were kept separate from those of current students and employees in order to study trends in the opinions of past students as opposed to those of current students. 
In addition to surveying the Notre Dame community, the consultants also met with var­ious groups of students to assess the needs of the differ­ent populations within the University. Traffic pattern assessments were performed in order to get a sense of the areas of greatest pedestrian traffic and decide where the optimal location for any new social space would be. 
The consultants finished their report in the spring of 1998 and turned it over to the Office of Student Affairs. Since then, administrators have been studying the situation. 
"Right now, we're at a wait and see point," said Bill Kirk. assistant vice president for Hesidence Life. 
The senior staff has not yet analyzed the report, according to Kirk. Instead, they are wait­ing to see if the renovation of South Dining Hall, the adcli­tion of Reekers and Burger King, and the recent availabil­ity of spacn on the third floor of LaFortune will make any difference in student social life before they make any new decisions. 
There is no indication that a new place to socialize on cam­pus will be built in the nnar future. 
"it's going to be awhile before we ean make usc of the survey information," Kirk said. 

Got News? Please call us 
1-5323 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 1, 1998 

CLC 
continued from page 1 
tion must be found to avoid eliminating the tradition all together. He mentioned the idea of having students camp out for tick­ets inside the stadium under the agree­ment that all .bags are subject to search by security, and a campus organization vol­unteers to clean up afterward. 
CLC members also suggested the possi­bility of having computer-generated seat­ing assignments to completely avoid camp­ing out, or of giving students a general admission pass to the student section, eliminating the need for seat assignments. 
J.P. C.ooney, judicial council president, raised the idea of looking into ticket distri­bution at other schools, such as the system for Duke University's basketball program. 
Security and safety issues arc also a con­cern for the office of Residence Life after last weekend's off-campus parties. Kirk said that onfl police ollicer he spoke with called the "Hally in the Alley" Friday night at Turtle Creek "the largest and most out of control gathering he's seen in 14 years." 
Several students were hospitalized for alcohol-related illnesses following the party, and several morfl were arrested. Eight fire trucks were called to the scene at one point for what turned out to be a false alarm, according to Kirk. 
"Student off-campus parties this week­end placed a strai,n on both South Bend and University resources," hfl said. "This was 
Davie 
continued from page 1 
Many positive points about the team were brought up, as well as some of the questions and concerns about the upcoming season. The coach was very excited by the fact that seven starters are returning on both offense and defense. Along with this there is more depth and experience at almost every position and the team is healthier than it has been in some time. 
Davie also stated that he is extremely excited about this year's freshman class, calling them the best freshman group that he has ever been involved with. lie said that as many as eight out of this group will see playing time in the first game, with one, Tony Weaver, starting on the dramatic. I don't think the students involved understood the magnitude of this. I can assure you the South Bend police are fed up with it." 
Kirk also clarified the responsibility of the University in such matters, reminding the 

council that DuLac covers off-campus behavior of students as well as on-campus activities. 

defensive line. 
cussion.

Some of the concerns about this season were also brought up. The toughness of this year's schedule, which includes six teams that defeat­ed the Irish last year, has led to questions. Along with the schedule, inexperience at some key positions is a cause for concern, but Davie was very optimistic about these question marks. He said that the defensive line, parts of the kicking game and quarterback are all ques­tions which will be answered this Saturday against Michigan. 
This week's game was a topic of many of the students' questions. With the Michigan Wolverines entering the season as the defend­ing national champions, this week's game has been greatly anticipated. 
"I am excited. It is going to be a great football game," said Davie, who said the team must be focused on execution in order to be successful against Michigan. 

"Simply living off campus does not mean 
that responsibilities to both campus and 
local communities are ended," Kirk said. Council members made several sugges­tions, including a meeting or pamphlet for off-campus students to discuss their rights 
and responsibilities to DuLac and the com­munity. The council also discussed the role of apartment building landlords, and the problem of freshmen heading off campus for their first weekend round of parties. April Davis, chair of the diversity committee, suggested a strengthening of the big brother/big sister programs within the dorm to encourage freshmen to partic­ipate in on-campus activities. Tim FitzSimons, co-presi­dent of the hall presi­dent's council, sup­ported that idea say­ing "I think there needs to be some accountability for that 
program." Before adjourning, 

the council sent both issues to the alcohol 
committee for further review. 

Leak 
continued from page 1 
tacted residents via mass voice­mails and word of mouth. It was not long before fire alarms wailed in warning. 
Slight cases of nausea and light-headedness were reported, although no major symptoms were said to be caused by the leak. 
"Hight now. it's just a matter of whether or not you can stand the smell," said Melissa Balchunas, a junior residing in Lyons. 
The Observer: Read it 
.. 


Dan Meisel. a senior scien­
tist at Argonne National 
Laboratory, has been named 
director of the Radiation 
Laboratory at the University of 
Notre Dame and professor of 
ch(_Jmistry, according to 
Nathan Hatch, University 
provost. The appointment is 
effective today. 
Meisel's work emphasizes 
electron and energy transfer 
between suspended particles 
and molecules in solution. This 
work has implications !'or 
remediation of· the U.S. 
Department of Energy 
radioactive waste storage 
sites, helping to describe the 
chemical evolution or the 
materials at those sites. 
A leader in the application of 
radiation chemistry to investi­
gations involving colloids and 
nanoparticles, Meisel has 
studied chemical processes 
that lead to cluster formation 
of various semiconductor 
materials in solution. 
A native of Israel, Meisel 
earned his bachelor's master's 
and doctoral degrees at the 
Hebrew University in 
Jerusalem. His entire research 
career has been at Argonne, 
except for a postdoctoral fel· 
lowship at Carnegie Mellon 
University. 

He is a member of many sci· .ence organizations and has 
authored more than 120 sci· 
entific publications. 
The radiation laboratory is a 
facility of.the U.S. Department 
of Energy operated by Notre 
Dame. The laboratory houses 
accelerator and gamma-irra· 
diation facilities for radiation 
chemical studies and lasers for 
photochemical investigations, 
as well as optical and ESR 
spectrometers capable of fol­
lowing events at times shorter 
than a billionth of a second. 

(not in credit cards) 
Introducing the New American Express® Credit Card for Students. Live for today. Build for tomorrow. 
The New American Express Credit Card for Students is a resource you can depend on. With benefits like big airfare savings, free credit information, and no annual fee, it'll help you get the most from your student years-and help you build a solid financial foundation for the future. 

Cards 

----------------------------------------------------------~------------------------------------­
. . ­

t.l.()···' , .~.fl~.:
.· ..·.w·.·. '' 
. ' . . .. ; ..· .._·:~ ·.. 

Tuesday, September I , 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 





Stock market plunges 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
NEW YOHK 

The Dow industrials fell more than 500 points on Monday as stocks wiped out what little remained of' this year's once-robust gains and plunged toward the first bear market since 1990. 
Less than two months al'ter peak­ing above 9,300, the Dow Jones indus trial average of 30 major American companies fell 512.61 points or 6.4 percent to 7,539.07, a loss of' 4. 7 percent for the year and its lowest level sinee November. 
The loss, the seeond biggest in points behind the 554-point drop suf'­fernd last fall on Oct. 27, extended the Dow's sharp drop from the July 17 record of 9,337.97 to 1,800 points. or 19.:~ percent 
The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite index fell S.6 percent to 1,499.25, losing a record 140.43 points, and the Standard & Poor's 500 l'ell 69.86 to 957.28. Both mea­sures are now showing a loss for the year after posting gains of more than 20 percent at July's highs. 
The Dow's 512-point loss sur­passed the 508 lost in the "Black Monday" crash of Oct. 19, 1987, but it was well short or the 22.6 percent lost on that day. 
While there were more discourag­ing developments among the laundry list of overseas troubles that have been rocking the market since mid­July, analysts attributed Monday's test missile over northeastern Japan. said. "The prospects for growth, lowheavy selling to emotions more than There were more signs of the unemployment, low inflation contin­the latest news. 
impact of those foreign crises on ue to be strong."
"The news at the margin continues 
American companies as a The Dow, which was up 18.1 per­
to be bad, and that's all you need for Midwestern manufacturing group, in cent for the year at the July record,
a down day with this atmosphere," 
the first sampling of August's busi­is now just 68 points away from its
said Barbara Marcin, senior equity ness conditions, reported the first first "bear market" decline of at
portfolio manager at Citibank Global drop in factory activity in three least 20 percent since Iraq's invasionAsset Management. 
years. of Kuwait in 1990.
In Hussia, for example, angry law­The Clinton administration moved Even so, analysts were careful to
makers on Monday emphatically 
quickly to reassure investors that the point out the difference between eco­rejected Boris Yeltsin's candidate for U.S. economy is essentially sound nomie conditions then and now.
prime minister, blocking formation 
despite the plunge. Treasury "Certainly U.S. economic growth is
of a government to try to pull the 
Secretary Hobert Hubin said he had going to slow, but the whole reces­country out of its economic and polit­been in touch with President Clinton sion thing? We don't think it's nearlyical tailspin. 
and Federal Reserve Chairman Alan that bad," said Hobert Streed, senior
The backdrop in Asia, which has 
Greenspan and with officials around investment adviser at Northern Trust
been crippled by a yearlong fiscal 
the world. in Chicago, noting that low borrow­crisis. turned more unsettling amid 
"The fundamentals of the United ing eosts should keep U.S. consumers
news that North Korea had fired a States economy are strong," Hubin spending. 

World leaders push reform in Russia 
AsSOCIATED PRESS summit. German Chancellor Helmut Kohl and French President 
In a flurry of phone calls, world leaders consulted with Jacques Chirac a.lso spoke by phone and spent part of the each other and Boris Yeltsin on Monday over Hussia's weekend assessing tho Hussian situation, their offices said. worsening crisis, calling on him to stay the course of Kohl said Monday he warned Yeltsin that Hussia would reform. receive no infusion of financial aid from abroad unless he 
British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who holds the rotating proceeded with reforms. chairmanship of the Group of Eight major industrialized European Union Finance Commissioner Yves-Thibault de nations, spoke to the Russian president by telephone for 20 SHguy cautioned that Europe -particularly the 11 nations minutes Monday, a spokosman for Blair said. Over the set to adopt the euro currHncy next year -has more at weekend, Blair spoke to President Clinlon and leaders of stake in Russia's economy than the United States. Franctl, Germany, Italy, Canada and Japan to share "Forty percent of Hussia's foreign trade is with Emope, assessments of Hussia's economic and political turmoil. and only liye percent is with the United States." he said 
Blair "passed on the desire of those nations to help Monday in an interview with French radio Europe-!. "'But Hussin, but made it clear that ther(l was agreement among it's Clinton who's going to Russia on Tuesday." them that any help must be tied to the economic reform Blair's office indicated earlier that the Group of Eight process continuing," the spokesman said, speaking on cus­was waiting for the formation of a new Russian govern­tomary condition of anonymity. "He was assured that ment before taking any steps. Hussia understood the importance of that oconomie roform Hussia, whose economie crisis has b£Jen building all surn· program." the spokesman said. mer, is the newest member of tho Gmup of Eight. 
Russia's economic and political turmoil deepened Some commentators saw no other option but to keep aid Monday, as legislators overwhelmingly rejected Yeltsin's to Hussia flowing. choice for prime minister. Viktor Chernomyrdin. The latest "As ab~urd as it sounds, there is nothing furth<~r for tho crisis sent shock waves through most of the world's tinan• West to do but to pump money into Hussia," read an edito­dal markets. rial in the Vienna newspaper Der Standard, warning the 
The consultations among world leaders came just ahead alternative would be "further hysterical reactions on the of Clinton's scheduled arrival in Moscow on Tuesday for a international fmance markets." 
--~-­

~--~-~--~----­
esc 
CENTER FOR 
Sign--Up for Service! 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
Check-out Activities Night (that's tonight) 7:00-9:00PM Joyce ACC Field House Table numbers are indicated in parentheses 
CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS SEMINARS AND PROGRAMS 
Appalachia Break Seminar (S13) Children and Poverty Seminar (S 1 0) Cultural Diversity Seminar (S 11) Experiential Learning Council (S30) Post Graduation Service (S8) Summer Seminar Project (S7) Urban Plunge (S9) Washington DC Break Seminar (S 12) 
ADDICTIONS Life Treatment Center (S42) Students Against Drunk Driving (S62) 
ADULT LITERACY Center for Basic Learning Skills (S69) Dismas of Michiana (S27) South Bend Community School Corporation Adult Education (S59) 
CRIMINAL JUSTICE Amnesty International (S 15) La Casa de Amistad (S6) Dismas of Michiana (S27) Juvenile Justice Center (S39) Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana (S41) Life Treatment Center (S42) Sex Offense Services (S56) 
DISABILITY SERVICES Best Buddies (S46) Logan Center (S43) Logan Center-NO Club (S44) Super Sibs (S45) 
ENVIRONMENT Foodshare (S31) Recyclin' Irish (S52) Students for Environmental Action (S63) Students for Responsible Business (S64) 
HOUSING AND HOMELESSNESS The Center for the Homeless (S 19) Hannah's House (S2) Habitat for Humanity (S33) 
Life Treatment Center (S42) Nort~east Neighborhood Council (S51) St. Vmcent De Paul Society (S55) 
HUNGER CONCERNS Foodshare (S31) World Hunger Coalition (S68) 
MEDICAL AIDS Assist/SWAT (S4) American Cancer Society (S 14) Helpful Undergraduate Students (S37) Hospice of St. Joseph County (S35) Memorial Hospital Medical Explorers (S47) Mental Health Association (S48) St. Joseph Chapin St. Healthcare (S54) 
MULTICULTURAL ISSUES Arnold Air Society (S 16) Catholic Charities (S 1) La Casa de Amistad (S6) Manantial (S6) 
MULTI-SERVICE GROUPS Catholic Charities (S I) Circle K International (S23) Community Alliance to Serve Hispanics (S24) Community Resource Center (S25) Knights of Columbus (S40) University Young Life (S66) World Hunger Coalition (S68) 
OLDER ADULT 
Northeast Neighborhood Council ( S51) 
ONE-TIME SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES Dismas of Michiana (S27) Habitat for Humanity (S33) Northeast Neighborhood Council (S51) St. Vincent De Paul Society (S55) 
PEACE AND JUSTICE ISSUES Amnesty International (S 15) ND/SMC Right to Life (S53) Students for Responsible Business (S64) World Hunger Coalition (S68) 
SCHOOL AGE CHILDREN/TUTORING Big Brothers/Big Sisters (S5) The Center for the Homeless Children's Group (S20) Charles Martin Youth Center (S21) Circle K International (S23) Council for Fun and Learning (S26) Educational Talent Search (S2R) 
El Buen Vecino (S29) Girl Scouts of Singing Sands (S32) Hugh O'Brien Youth Leadership (S36) Junior Achievement Club of NO (S38) Juvenile Justice Center (S39) La Casa de Amistad (S6) Mental Health Association (S48) ND/SMC Campus Girls Scouts (S 18) Neighborhood Study Help Program (S50) Slice of Life (S57) South Bend Community School Corporation (S58) Student Tutorial Education Program (S61) The Children's Dispensary (S22) Twenty-first Century Schools (S65) 
WOMEN'S CONCERNS 
Campus Alliance for Rape Education (S 17) 
Ms. Wizard Day Program (S49) 
ND/SMC Right to Life (S53) 
St. Advocate for Inclusive Ministry (S60) 
Women's Care Center (S3) 
Women's Resource Center (S67) 
YOUNG CHILDREN 
The Center for the Homeless Children's Group (S20) 
Circle K International (S23) 
Council for Fun and Learning (S26) 
El Buen Vecino (S29) 
Hansel Head Start (S34) 


--~------------~--------------~-----------------------------------------------------------~----------------------------------­
Tuesday, September I, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Illnesses not related to Gulf War nerve gas use 



-~~m; 




iiRIBH 
RACJfMG7I1EIII 
Informational Meeting Monday, August 31 at 7:00pm 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
The Irish Racing Team is an NO student project that develops and competes an electrically powered Indy-style race car. Students from all disciplines are invited to participate in projects which include video production, PR, marketing, finance, electric and mechanical design, plus. 
Senate report 
finds no evidence to support claims 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A Senate r.ornrnittee report concludes there is no evidence to support the the­ory that U.S. soldiers who fought in the Persian Gulf War and then became mysteriously ill were exposed to nerve gas. 
"We have found nothing to show that the illnesses are rnlatml to chemicals," said a Senate Veterans Affairs Committee official who spoke late Monday on c:ondition of anonymity. 
Thn panel pia nnNI to make tho study 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Fall Semester Sale! 
20o/o OFF ALL BOOKS SEPTEMBER 1-4 

THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE 234-0003 • lasalle@michiana.org 237 N. Michigan St., downtown So. Bend (at LaSalle) Open I 0-5, Monday -Friday, parking due south 
public on Tuesday. hard evidence to back the report's con­The bipartisan report, prepared over clusions. It says the Pentagon, working 
the last year, backs the military's long-held 
assertion that chemi­
cal weapons were not to blame for the ill­
nesses.
But it is highly criti­cal of a Pentagon con­elusion last year that up to 100,000 soldiers were exposed to low doses of nerve gases rnleased in the demoli­tion of an Iraqi ammu­

nition depot in March 1991, days after tim war had ended. That report said the dos1~s were too small to have it marked thn first official acknowledgment that there was any exposure at all. 
Thf~ Senate report argues there is no 
with the CIA, relied on 
a flawed computer 
model to recreate the
'WETHINK THAT THE 
exposure levels and 
PENTAGON MAY assumed a worst-case scenario.
HAVE OVERREACTED BASED 
"There is insufficient ON THE EVIDENCE IT HAD.' evidence at this time to prove or disprove that there was actual low­SOURCE FOR level exposure of any THE AssociATED PRESS troops to chemical 
weapon nerve agents 
or that any of the health effects some veterans are experi­encing were cause by such exposure," Tuesday's editions of The Washington Post quoted the report as saying. 
The source added to The Associated Press: "We think that the Pentagon may have overreacted based on the evidence it had." 
The Senate report concludes that there is just one case where there is hard evidence of chemical exposure ­that of Army Pfc. David Fisher, who was exposed to mustard liquid in March 1991. 
Ironically, the Senate study backs up the Pentagon's original and long-held position that U.S. troops were not exposed to chemical weapons during the Gulf War, despite the mysterious ill­nesses many soldiers sull'ered. 
After five years of denials, the Defense Department reported in the summer of 1996 that Americans were exposed to ehemieal fallout. 
Initially, the department estimated that 20,000 troops were exposed, but that estimate climbed in subsequent 
months. 




D.K. 1111! 
HUCHEf: THE "TARCH" : ONE .. R4fT~ NIGHT­DON'T DO AN~THINC ~OUR J40THA WOU.LDN'T DO! 
UV.lLl1f.l'-..'.l'\.JL.l>Jl.Jo...J & 
'~"~}~'SM 
l-800--. 
. .fll_
Amencan Heart Association,. 
Fighting Hearl Disease and Stroke 
It keeps more than 
. 

memones alive. 
AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION 


Contact Dr. Bill Berry @ 1-6102 for more information. 
--------~--~-----------­
-----------------------~--_.---------------------------------------·----------~--­
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, September 1, 1998 
• TECHNOLOGY 

T1c TAc ToE 
Government requests changes in Microsoft case 


A$sQciated Press 
WASHINGTON 
The government urged a judge Monday to_ reject Microsoft's request to throw out the most important parts of the antitrust case against the $14 billion software com­pany, but it didn't substantive­ly broaden its lawsuit. 
The government's lengthy court filing includes new evi­dence that Microsoft allegedly behaved illegally toward rivals Intel and Apple Computer to stifle competition in the high­tech industry. "We believe the facts will show these new alle­gations are groundless," Microsoft spokesman Mark severely ti.ndermihes their_ original case, so they're trying to rewrite the case in a matter of days_-before the trial begins," said Microsoft's Murray. 

But the government con­tends Microsoft's bundling amounts to illegal "tying," because it fo1·ces customers who use Windows -the world's dominant operating system -also to use the com­pany's web browser rather than that ofrival Netscape. 
Microsoft also had argued that it uncovered evidence from Netscape during its trial preparations to refute another government claim: that its decision to include its browser 

'WE BELIEVE THE FACTS WILL SHOW THESE NEW 
ALLEGATIONS ARE GROUNDLESS. COLLABORATIVE EFFORTS ARE COMMON ALL ACROSS THE HIGH·TECH INDUSTRY, AND THEY'RE GOOD FOR CONSUMERS AND PAVE THE WAY FOR RAPID DEVELOP· 
MENT OF NEW TECHNOLOGIES.' 

MARK MURRAY MICROSOFT SPOKESMAN 
The ObseJVer/John Daily 
W
ith the renovation of South Dining J-Iall, students now are prohibited from carrying back­
Murray said. "Collaborative effectively shut Netscape out 
packs into the eating area so as to cut down on congestion. A number of student leaders
efforts are common all across of the market. 

have voiced concerns regarding the safety of the property against theft as it sits unattended
the high-tech industry, and Microsoft said Netscape can 
while students eat. The issue is being considered for discussion at tonight's Student Senate
they're good for consumers distribute its browser through 
meeting.

and pave the way·for rapid computer makers and Internet development of new technolo-providers, along with making gies." it available on the lnternet for 
But one person familiar with customers to download for the document said the essence free. 
·------------------------------------~
of the complaint remains what . The Justice Departmentit always was, and that the argued that asking consumers· 
!

government is not expanding to download an Internet its case. browser is to'o burdensome, 
!I 

The Justice Department and and it contended that the 20 states suing Microsoft Microsoft was guilty of exclu­were ordered to respond to siorfary agreements with the the company's Aug. 10 nation's largest Internet 
i Irequest for summary judg-providers to distribute its own ment. browser instead of Netscape's. 
A copy of the government's Meanwhile, Micrpsoft has filing won't be publicly .demanded copies Of about released until Tuesday, but a 4,000 e-mails that Netscape person who worked on the employees wrote over the past 
: I 

document characterized its two years. . •.. ·. •·• contents for The Associated Netscape's own lawyers Ql1 Press. Monday were reviewing the In its request to throw out messages, which Microsoft 
I

the case. Microsoft had con-hopes might include embar· tended that a favorable ruling rassing comments about 
I 
I

earlier this summer from a Netscape's own executives or 
federal appeals court-com-its products, or possibly 
I bined with evidence it has inflammatory messages about 
I 
uncovered from business Microsoft. 
:

rivals -undercuts the gov-Netsca.pe employees posted ernment's most dramatic the messages to two private 
1 

claims. forums for informal com-
I

In its response, the govern-plaints. ment pointed to statements by They fired orr e-mails, for 
: 

the appeals court that the example, to gripe abdut cafe­June ruling was only periph-teria food and about the com­
I 

erally related to the pending pany's policy prohibiting 
I 

antitrust case. workers from taking their 
I 
For example, the court itself dogs to the office. 
:

noted that "the ultimate sort-Kent Walker. Netsca.pe's ing out of any factual disputes attorney, told employees Aug. 
1

is a difficult question, and one 20 that Microsoft had subpoe­
I

we, of course, cannot resolve naed the contents of the 
I

on the limited record before forums, called "bad attitude" us." and "really bad attitude.'' 
: 

The appeals court in a sepa-"Microsoft is going to pay rate but related case had some ... lawyer $200 an hour 
1 

ruled that Microsoft was to find out that we hate cafete­
I 

allowed to bundle its Internet ria food, don't like the security 
I 

browser with its popular posters, had a (bad) newsfeed Windows software, calling it and think 'Navigator' was a 
: 

"a genuine integration." cooler name that That is legal, because a sin-'Communicator.' And I smile," 
:

gle combined product offers one Netscape software engi­benefits over separate ones. neer wrote in an e-mail about "The appeals court ruling the situation. 
: 
I I 

We want you ... 
: 

Have you thought about ! 


becoming a !I 





Catechist? ! I 
I 
181 : 
0MPUS I 
MINISTRY I I I *Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? I 
* 
Can you give two hours ofyour time each week? : 

* 
Would you welcome the challenge to articulate your faith? 1 

* 
Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? 1 

* 
Would you be interested in becoming a certified catechist? : 


I I I 
If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, : come find our more about becoming a Catechist. 1 
I I 
Pick-up applications at Badin Hall-Campus Ministry, : and attend our information session on: 1 
I I 
Wednesday, September 2; 4:30 P.M. : Montgomery Theatre : 1st. floor LaFortune Student Center : 
I I 
Any questions? Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 : 
to work for The Observer. I I 
······················---------------· 
I 
~--------­
Tuesday, Septem~be:::.-r_I~,~I_:_9:_:-:9~8_______________~T~h~e~O::::.b::.:s~e.:_rv~e.:_r_•~N....::::E::...W~S~-----------------------·.;:_p-'ag:....e_9 
U.S. Senate gives California early primary date 
Associated Press 
Si\CIV\MENTO, Calif. 

In a stnp that could havn a significant impact on presidential 
politics, tlw Lngislaturn on Monday snnt the govornor a bill that 
would give California onn of the country's earliest primary ~~Inc­
lions. 
By a 21-14 votP. tho Sonate gave final approval to legislation 
that would movo tlw primary from June until tlw 11rst Tuesday 
in March starting in ;woo. The i\ssnmhly approved the bill last 
wonk. 
Soan Walsh, a spoknsman for c;ov. Pete Wilson, said the 
Bnpubliean govornor had expressed some concerns about the 
hill but hadn't indicated whether lw would sign or veto it. 
Wilson is eonsidPring running for president in 2000 and might 
bmwfit from tlw dHLngn in t~lection dates. 
Sonw lawmakers havo hnt~n trying for years to move up the 
date of tlw statn's primary, saying that presidential nominations 
arn usually wrapped up by th1~ time Californians vote, even 
though the statn has tlw most ~~~~~ctoral votes-54. 
California vott~rs havnn't had a rPal impact in the selection of 
a presidtmtial nomitHHl since 1972, when Georgo ~cGovern's 
vi rtory i n t 111~ Ca I i for n i a p r i 111 a r y proptd I e d h11n to tho 
DtnHocratie nomiJI;Itinn 
~~t tH' llU'Ill ! 
WfEDP0fE~D~V ~!2!~~ 
5gJ0 T 0 1g{Q)(Q) 
*FREE FOOD *LIVE MUSIC *BANNER CONTEST 
COMJE TO ~TONIEHJENG!E 1\ND H!El1P THJE ~T~DIENT GOV'T CHIEIE~ ON TH/E I~I~Hf 
Dorm Banner Contest 

Sponsored by your Student Gov't and Classes of '99, '00, '01, and '02! 
Wildfires ravage California: homes, businesses destroyed 
Associated Press were immediately threatened in those fires. 
In addition to tho houses and mobile homos 
NUEVO, Calif. that burned down in the Jupiter Flats fire, at 
i\ large wind-driven wildlir:e destroyed at least least 10 outbuildings were destroyed. /\bout. 30 26 homes Monday, and authorities ordered evac­people sought shelter at an elementary school. IJations for residents in the path of the 5,000-Some 400 firefighters wore working on tho acre blaze. · blaze, said Cassandra Thompson, a spokes· 
Thoro were no reports of injuries. woman for the forestry department. 
The fire star·ted Monday afternoon about 80 Firelighting resources were already stmtelwd miles southeast of Los Angeles in an area called thln across California as crews battled rugged Jupiter Ffats and was fueled by dry, dense brush terrain and seorching temperatures to extinguish and pushed by 20 mph winds. The cause of the several existing blazes and gain control of new 
fire was under investigation, although there were ones. reports of lightning strikes from thunderstorms. i\ jail inmate was killed and a firelighter was 
i\t least five other fires, inducting a 2,000-acre seriously injured in Palmdale when a truck car­blaze, were burning in Riverside County, east of rying at least 11 prisoners to help light a lire Los 1\ngeles, said Ira! Evans, spokesman for the rolled several times after the driver lost control 
California Department of Forestry. No homes on a curve. 

Sacred Heart Parish University of Notre Dame 
Offers RCIA with:
...

•PariSh ;;)Olllll~ VII I'III..J vCU lljJUd 
•Wednesday evening sessions 
•A diverse mix of people and ages 
•A convenient option for students who cannot attend Campus Ministry RCIA 
Call Chris Miller at 631-7508 
The Observer news department is looking for writers. 
Calll--5323 if you're up for it. 
• CHINA 

Policy works to dissuade pirates 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

Use of pirated software flourishes in China despite the government's more aggressive enforcement of copyright laws and a slick public relations campaign that relies on pop music to convince computer users that honesty is the best policy. 
Piracy is especially worri­some to Microsoft Corp. with the release hero Monday of a Chinese-language version of the Windows 98 operating syst~1m. 
"If we took three or four points off piracy in China, the impact for us and other com~ panics would be enormous," said Michael Hawding, direc­tor of Microsoft operations in China. 
The U.S.-based Business Software Alliance estimates that as much as 96 percent of business software used in China is pirated. amounting to nearly $1.5 billion in lost sales last year, more than doubled from $703 million in 1.996. 
"The bad news is the losses are goinJ up because the numbers of people who have computers is going up, but they're not buying software, they're just copying it." said Mark Traphagen, vice presi· dent and general counsel for intellectual property at the Business Software Alliance. 
Software publishers aren't the only ones being hurt. The Motion Picture Association of America estimates that it lost $20 million in China in 1997, and $512 million in the Asia· Pacific area. 
Microsoft is battling piracy with two decidedly soft-sell approaches. 
The company is offering training and support to big customers who buy its sort­ware and pledge to respect copyright laws. 
The software giant also joined a Hong Kong-bastld record company to co-produce a pop music CD featuring pop­ular ltrtists f1·om China and Hong Kong who sing about the virtues of honesty. 
The CD. entitled "Lai." or "Come Along," urges listeners to preserve the purity of cyberspace by using legal software, 
"I think this song is very indicative of the kind of change we're trying to mak~~ here, not very harsh in its approach," said Juliet Wu, general manager of Microsoft's China operations. 
But rock-bottom prices give cons\tmers a powerful incen­tive to buy from vendors who sell counterfeit CDs on side­walks and in open·air mar­kets. 
Copies of popular Microsoft programs such as Flight · Simulator, the English-lan· guage version of Windows 98, Back Office -as well as those · of other major software pub· lishers can be purchased for $3 or less on the streets of Beijing. · 
About 25 percent of China's software piracy is the product of large-scale, commercial operations that reproduce CD disks in high-tech factories. The rest is the work of com· puter makers who illegally load programs on hard drives before the machines are sold, and individuals who make copies for f'1·iends, Hawding said. 
The Business Software Alliance estimates that world­wide losses to piracy of busi­ness applications reached $1.1.4 billion in 1. 997 based on retail priees. 
Losses in Asia were estimat­ed at $3.9 billion, the most of any region. 
China's piracy rate was exeeeded only by Vietnam, where 98 percent of software is pirated, aeeording to SPA figures. 
In the United States, by comparison, BSA estimatns a 28 percent piracy rate, but losses-$2.7 billion-are higher because there are more computers in use. 
The figures don't include losses to makers of' entertain­ment or educational softwarn, or operating systems. 
Chinese officials stepped up enforcement efforts, shutting down 60 disk factories and seizing an estimated 10 mil· lion piratod CDs during 1 q97, said Sun Zhenyu. director general of China's Ministry of Foreign Trade & Economie Affairs. 
"The legal protection we offer is on par with a lot of international convtmtions and higher than some Western countries," he sajd. "The question is how to enforce those good laws and regula­tions." 
"Even in industrial eountries the governments can't prevent every single case of piracy," Sun said. 







IEWPOINT 
OTHE 

pagelO------------------------------------------------BSERVER Tuesday, September I, 1998 
NEWS EDITOR ....................... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .............. Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS. .. ............ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ................. Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klitsch CONTROLLER .................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's ElliTOR ......M. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR .......... Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by tlu.· students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's Cnllegc. lr does nor ncccs.~olfily reflect rhe policies of rhe administration of cirhc~ institution. The news is reported as accuratdy and obJccuvdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the: EdilOr-in-Chief, Managing Editor. 1\ssiMant Managing Editor and department t:ditors. Commentaries, leuer.s and columns present the vic:ws of the authors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available ro all members of the Nom: Dame/Saint Mary's communicy and ro all reader:;. The free expression of v~rying opinions through lerrers is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5.'123 Sysrems 631-88.19 Sports 631-4 543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Ediror/Viewpoint 631-5.103 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• NOT PEACE, BUT THE SWORD 

Catholics need to hold on to the core ofthe faith 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 · SAINT MARY's 0FHCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhalcr Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EmToR Hearher MacKenzie 
It was said in Kevin Coyne's novel Domers, that Notre Dame is a great place to find your faith, but also a great place to lose it. As students, we feel the pressure of coping with demanding academics, all the while keeping our friendships, staying fit, not to mention maintaining our spiri­tuallives. 


Sean Vinck 
Notre Dame is a very rich place in a number of senses. Culturally, we have magnificent buildings, a gigantic library system, a museum of art, numerous acad­emics institutes, and a brain trust of scholars that rivals any other school in the nation. Athletically, we boast some of the finest college teams in a variety of sports. But perhaps most importantly, we possess a very majestic religious tradi­tion. 
Yet, th-ere is a problem. While it is true that mass attendance is high, and that confession lines are long, it is my belief that there is what I call a confusion of faith. I will elaborate. There are multi­tudes of good hearted people here, there is no question about that. People who attempt to live lives of faith in a sincere fashion are loved by God, but suffer from a lack of catechesis. Yet in our dorm masses, in our prayer services, in our whole approach to religious practice there is a certain slovenliness. This is not universally true, but it is problem enough to warrant discussion. 
Since Vatican II, many priests have sought to make religion more palatable to . the young and disafl'ected through a vari­ety of means. We have begun to say the mass in the vernacular. We take commu­nion on our hands. We have a rite of peace. We hold hands during the Our Father. None of these things are bad, in and of themselves: in fact, they, in some instances are quite desirable. 

The problem here is that we begin to water down certain essential elements of the faith when we liberalize our religious practices too much. For example, the pope allowed lay persons to distribute communion in instances where there are not enough priests. This was a very seri­ous, well-considered move, in light of the profound 
theological our importance greatest the church consola­places on tion. the Blessed lam Sacrament. suggest­Yet, as ing that Frederick if we Douglass diminish once said, too much "given an the rich­inch, I took ness of a mile." Catholic Certainly theology, this is what substitut­has hap­ing it pened. with 
Now, we non-con­have a trover­corps of sial plati­

extraordi­nary ministers of communion at every mass, whether or not there are enough priests. I see lay people approach the tabernacle to remove the sacrament with­out genuflecting first, demonstrating a lack of reverence for the Holy Eucharist. 
The entire ambiance of the mass seems to be radically different in our dorms than in, say, the Basilica. As a freshman, I was told that the mass in my dorm was a cele­bration of community, that it almost assumed a social atmosphere. It is cer­tainly true that in Catholic theology that 
~\)l~ll·ibure_ 
the mass has many important aspects to it -a celebration, an act of penitence, an act of prayer, an act of thanksgiving, a sense of fellowship with God, the Father; yet, most importantly, it is a sacrifice. It is the perfect reenactment of Jesus' death, with all applicable graces and merits. While l enjoy sitting with my friends at mass on occasion, their presence on a given Sunday does not add to the ines­timable value of the grace that the mass bestows upon each soul. In fact it is said that at our time of death, the number of 
masses that we have heard in our lifetime 
will be 

tudes, we run the risk of subtly eroding our faith. It is all too easy to forget the eterni­ty of hell, the effect of mortal sins, and the necessity of confession for the more bright and happy aspects of Catholicism -eternal bliss, lover, etc. 
My remarks should not be interpreted as an attack on well-meaning people. There is a room, and frankly a need for a certain diversity in modes of religious practices. Yet, in our faith there is a logos, a unifying element-the magisterium of the Catholic Church. Intellectual docility to the Holy Father and the magisterium teachings of the church will unify the dis­parate elements of the church. Submitting to the pope's judgment, guided by the light of the Holy Spirit will overcome the theological confusions and squabbles that sometimes plague our church. We must move beyond the old debates among lib­eral and conservative elements in the church, and unite in a spirit of orthodoxy. 
It will be said that our Holy father is out of step with the demands of a modern world, that circumstances dictate that we alter our faith in order to live comfortably in the world. There is a simple reply to this: the demands of catholicity are often incongruous with demands of main­stream society; we must choose to pre­serve the intc)grity of our souls over and above all worldly considerations. 
Notes and Asides 

Kudos to Maureen Kramlich for her very important letter regarding Senator Bill Bradley's pro-abortion record. It is unfortunate that such letters have to be published, ynt abortion is the penultimate cultural issue of our time. No doubt the erstwhile Senator will justify his opposi­tion to the Partial-Birth abortion ban by explaining that he is not pro-abortion, that he is personally opposed to it, but that he wouldn't dare impose his values on women; such semantieal double-talk is as tiresome as it is intellectually vacuous. 
As was pointed out last semester, it is unfortunate that for the sake of respectability in the eyes of the academic community, Notre Dame chooses to com­promise its integrity by bringing in "edu­cators" who do not share in their pastoral mission. 
Sean Vinck is a Sophomore PLS major. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer . 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Idon't know how the rest of you feel, but I feel drunk all the time.' 

--Kenneth Patchen 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
RIGHT. 81./ZZ ABOUT 

~.nv-u BtJZZ. >a.Jfl(ff 7H~ 7HI3 OR/6/NA/,
81JZZ.' 'IOU · 
WR!JOUT7HAT 
IVANT7H&M
/fV131<YON13 1Smt.K­
RliAIJY70 K/U.
IN6AfJO{JTMIK!M.' 
7HEM~/ 

------~--------~-------~--~-----------~ ~~-~------­
--~----­

VIEWPOINT 
OTHE 
Tuesday, September 1, 1998 ------------------page 11
BSERVER 


particularly pno­
ple of color, qU{~ers, and women. The oppressor is very often tho Administ.l'ation. 
Our community to organize is the campus. The way to organize it is to unite students in organizations and use tho power of our numbers (since we don't have the big bucks) to win con­crete soda! change. Whilo it may be tempting to concentrate on doing ser­vice or education, history has shown that uction leading to change is the only way to build strong student orga­nizations that will alter the relations of pownr on campus. After all. the best way to educatt) someone is to involve thorn in a movement for social change, and achieving change is the best way to alleviate the need for service. It's like preventing the disea...:;e, instead of spending all your time treating sick people. Our disease is oppression. PSA is like part of a project to build student power on campus, and other organiza­tions are (very) weleome to join in. 
PSA started last semestor in February. We're probably semi-famous for chalking campus, passing out a eouple thousand fliers, putting up a eouple thousand posters, opposing 
U.S. bombing of Iraq, and working for gay rights after Fr. David Garrick rt~signed to protest or the Administration's discriminatory treat­ment of himself, GLND/SMC. and facul· ty and studenlo.; in general. And that wlt..'i before we were recognized! 
Now that we were recognized on August 20 (it only took five months), wo'll be able to advertise our meetings and fun('tion easier than before. We havon't decided what issue(s) we'll be working on, but here are a eouple of possibilities. You probably haven't heard, but the Aeademie Council will bo voting on wheUwr sexual orienta­tion should be included in the non-dis­crimination clause at their first meet­ing this fall (the Administr·ation cur· rently reserves the "right" to discrimi­nate based on sexual orientation)! If it passes, then the Trustees get to vote on it. It's going to be dose and student support is essential for suecess. 
Another issue is that Student Aetivitios put tlHl Women's Rosour1~e Centor (WHCl on a two-year probation for having a Planned Parenthood pam­phlet in the oflke. We't•e not happy nbout that. We're probably going to do edueation on international issues, since students are often quite unaware of what is happening out<>ide campus. And finally we might work for a Student Bill of Bights. Don't you think student<> should have the l'reodom or speech and freedom to assemble'! Of' eourse! But that's too radical for our Administration. 
So here's our mission statement, "The Progressive Student Alliance opposBs all forms of oppression and is working for social justice by raising awareness of social issues, cooperating with existing groups, empowering stu­dtmts, and eneouraglng action!" So what's oppression? Most members 
ROGRESSIVE TUDENT ALLIANCE 
Take action against oppression with the Progressive Student Alliance 
This is the first in a series of weekly would certainly include racism, hetero· columns written by members of the sexism, sexism. and class exploitation. Progressive Studimt Alliance (PSA). By In addition I'd include specioism (the rotating writers we hope to provide a oppression of animals) as I am trying wide array of viows from the left. Each to be vegan (no meat, no dairy, no eolumnist.will bn expressing her own eggs). If you, your friends, or your 
opinion. So ~~~~!!!!!'.'!'!~~~~~~~~~~!!! organization.are here's mine. being oppressed Welconw to and PSA can in any


Aaron 
Organizing & way help you, then Soeial .Justice contact us and 101! Not for we'll advocate for 
credit. Tho you! Our organiza-
KreI. der 
oppressed peo-tion's goals (fight­pie are students. ing oppression) are 
-----========---­
very broad, and we
really want to cooperate with other groups who might focus primarily on a single ~<:~sue, As the most activist group on eampus, we ean act radically to promote causes and support other organizations whose members might not want to be so "political.'' "Progressive1' is a broad word which signifies that we're to the let\ of liberal on the political spectrum. PSA includes both liberals and radi, · cals, of which I'm probably the furthest to the left. Actually PSA was designed on several other multi-issue groups (including some with the exact name) which were part of the national Progressive Student Network that last­ed from 1980 until the early 90s. ··• 
At times Notre Dame might seem to be dominated by conservative white uppei·-middle class Catholics and you might feel that there is no hope for progress. But just a couple exampl~;~s from our history show that it was often different. During the late 60s, a radical political party dominatod student .gov~ ernment, students stopped DOW and CIA from recruiting on campus, and after the massacre at Kent State, stu· dents went on strike for ~t.t least a week. In the 80s activists agitated for complete divestment from South Africa to help end apartheid. In April1991 Students United For Respect (SUFR) occupied the Hegistrar's office for 11 hours after having demandod increased resources to be devoted to increasing diversity on eampus (and nobody got in any trouble for it). And during tho 90s the campaign for GLND/SMC reeognition and adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimi­nation cause (hopefully) has won major administrative changes and is close to winning its primary goals. 
Whon it's even against the rulos to co!leet signatures for a petition without the Director of Student Activities' por­mission, the time has corn~ to build a student power base that ean resist and change our sexist-racist-heterosexist Administration and society. We need YOU to help win the tight against oppression! 
PSA's first major meeting is either next Monday or Tuesday, Tho place and time will he well advertised in advance. We have an e-mail discussion and announce list, nd-psa­l@listserv.nd.edu that anyone can join and post. For further information about PSA feel free to call me at 4­4346, or drop by table 91 at Activities Night. 
Aaron Kreider is a graduate student in the sociology depa.rtment. This col­umn appears every Tuesday written by a different member ofthe Progressive Student Alliance. His views do not necessarily reflect the 11iews ofthe Progressive Student Alliance. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces· sarily those ofThe Observer. 

• THE BEllE OF SAINT MARY'S 
The media and the Era of Lew-insky 
I wish to assure you that I will not stoop to the sub-gutter level of so many other Americans and make vulgar light of the Clinton-Lewinsky situation. It distresses me that this once God fearing nation has become disturbingly preoccupied with the activities of the -say we say -hydrant and hose of the Executive Branch. Ifanyone's at fault here (and as we all know, absolutely data, Chet, but Madeline Allbright has reportedly used that one in casual convcrsa­tion. 
ANCHOR: And how are the President's approval ratings holding up? 
DEALEH: We've found that 79 percent of Amerieans continue to support the President even if he is proven beyond a doubt to have committed perjury, engineered obstruction 

none of the responsibili-~~~~~~~=~~~~~~~!!! ofju!'itice, cannibal­ty for this mess falls ized Vice President upon the President's, Gore, taken responsi-
M B th um, shoulders) it's the ary e bility in any way for media. A typical Era of the latest Home Alone Lewinsky newscast goes movie, or been the like this: second shooter on the
E11• 

STRIPED TIE-WEAR­lNG ANCHOR: Good evening. Welcome to this edition of "The Investigated Under-Fire Presidency In Crisis." We're going to lead off tonight with exclusive footage of independent prosecutor Ken Starr performing mundane tasks. Here's a reporter with no journalistic quali­fications other than being a former Miss Teen USA with the story. 
FOHMEH MISS TEEN USA: Thanks, Chet. Here's Ken Starr getting into his car. Here's Ken Starr getting out of his car. Here's Ken Starr getting into his car while holding a cup of coffee. 
ANCI-IOR: My God! What kind of coffee? 
FORMER MISS TEEN USA: A spokesperson for the Starr investi­gation has con­firmed that it is indeed English Toffee. Furthermore, Chet, a source with intimate knowledge of the Starr investiga­tion has told us on the condition of anonymity that it originated from a nearby Starbuck's. 
ANCHOH: Did he take cream, sugar or possibly -and bear in mind I'm merely speculating here -possi­bly, both? 
FORMEH MISS TEEN USA: We're banking on knowing the full details once Mr. Starr issues his report to Congress. Chet. 
ANCHOR: Has there been any word on reports that this is the same type of coffee he drank on the moming of President Clinton's testimony? 
FOHMEH MISS TEEN USA: We've heard leaks to that ell'ect, Chet, but as you know, we'll have to confirm such allegations with the station Ouija board before bringing them to the publie. 
ANCHOH: Thanks for putting such sala­cious rumors into proper perspective, Former Miss Teen USA. Now for an update on ridiculously irrelevant poll numbers with our reporter hired on the recently passed Convicted Hashish Dealer Affirmative Action Bill. What's the word on the street, Rocko? 
DEALER: Chet, here's some fresh data concerning today's stunning revelation that after Monica Lewinsky bought that soon-to­be stained dress at the Gap, she also pur­chased a belt to match. According to this CNN-Gallup-Newsweek-USA Today-Tostidos Crunch of the Game poll, 40 per­cent of Americans prefer to refer to the stain as 'The First Semirml Fluid," 28 per­cent side with "The Presidential Campaign Trail," 12 percent would rather hear "The Head of State," 9 percent seem to like "The President's Vetoed Legislation," and 4 per­cent champion "The Executive Emission." 
ANCHOR: Um. That doesn't add up to a hundred percent, Hocko. 
DEALER: Oh. Well, whatever. 
ANCHOH: No one's calling it "The Stain of the Union" anymore? DEALEH: It didn't appear in our polling 
IS grassy knoll. However, in the event of further drops in the stock market, 97 percent 
are in favor of express-mailing his butt back to Arkansas. 
· ANCHOR: In light of the highly volatile Gap belt development, what would you say is the mood at the White House today? 
DEALEH: Things are less than shagadelic around here, Chet. ANCllOH: Would it be safe to say it's not a very Smurfy day for the President? DEALER: Not Smurfy at all, Chet. ANCHOR: Rocko, thank you. It's time now to ... Just q, moment, I'm told that our former Miss Teen USA has a bulletin for us. 
FORMEH MISS TEEN USA: Chet, I've just been 
told that Monica Lewinsky has 
been sighted using the bathroom of a Washington 
D.C. restau­rant. ANCHOH: I see. And did she 
wash her hands before exiting? FOHMEH MISS 
TEEN USA: She did, and forewent the auto­matic hand dryer in favor of paper towels. 
ANCHOR: A pivotal development. Keep us posted, Former Miss Teen USA. Again. to update those of you recently joining us, for­mer White House intern Monica Lewinsky just took a pee. It's time now to turn to our Pompous Legal Analyst Who's Been Out of a Job Since the OJ. Verdict. Pompous Legal Analyst, let's take a look at the Pmsident's address in which he admits to lying to everyone ever hom in the history of the uni· verse. What, exactly, is the Prosident saying here? 
POMPOUS LEGAL ANALYST: lie's saying, "I am a colossal perjuring yahoo," Chet. But let's remember-that's hardly a sin. I myself am a massive liar. It's Ken Starr, after all, who's done his best to destroy the country, if not the entire HEMISPHEHE, with his outrageously unconstitutional attempts to make the President accountable for his actions. I mean, did you ever? 
ANCHOR: Never. Hold that thought, Pompous Legal analyst. We'll be right back with an in-depth look on conflicting reports of Monica Lewinsky's choice of hair spray, then devote the final two seconds of our broadcast to sightings of a nuclear Chinese warhead apparently hurtling towards Kansas. Stay tuned. 
Mary Beth Ellis, a senior at Saint Mary's College, is minoring in U.S. history with a double major in English writing and (of course) political science. On behalfofall humor writers everywhere, she would like to nominate Monica Lewinsky as Woman of the Year. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

~----~------~------­
------~---­
It 

OTHE 
page 12 Tuesday, September 1, 1998
BSERVER 




BUILDI 
One week at the Jimmy Carter Work Project 1998 
DAY 1: 
trusses and 
framing 


DAY 2: 


blue-board 
· 


Top: Former President Jimmy Carter approaches the work 
.....~ 
insulation, 
windows, roof 
decking 


DAY 3: 
insulation, 
drywall, 
shingles 

DAY 4: 
interior painting, caulking, vinyl siding, vinyl flooring 


DAY 5: 
day with enthusiasm. 

landscaping, Bottom: Carter, Jessica Chicalski, Christina Sullivan and 
Kate Bamgerg (left to right) enjoy breakfast before a long 
day of construction.
carpeting, 

All photos courtesy of Nicole Benjamin 
clean-up 



OTHE 
Tuesday, September 1, 1998 BSERVER page 13 






ITI E S ... 

T A TIME 
Sweat, muscle and love help Notre Dame students replace sub-standard housing in Houston and the Philippines 
By NlCOLE BENJAMlN Scene Writer 
It was a summer of blistered hands, blazing temperatures and touching moments for mem­bers of Notre Dame's Habitat for Humanity student chapter. 
In an nfTort to eliminate poverty housing out­side the South Bend area, the dub sponsored three building projects -one in Houston, Tnxas, and two in tho Philippines. 
The Ilouston house .sponsored by the Notre Dame Ilabital chapter was one of I00 hurries built during the 1998 Jimmy Carter Work Project. President Carter and his w.ife, Hosalyn, have led this annual work proJect every year since 1984. 
This year's JCWI' volunteers were the first to construct 100 houses in onn week in the United States, and the Notre Dame-sponsored house was thn first studont house to be built hy a single campus r.hapll\r at a JCWI' site. 
Notre Danw sent 22 undergraduate students to Ilouston for the .ICWI' project, held June 14­
20. These studl\nts worked with Mario Almanza and .Juanita Garcia, the partner fami­ly, to build a house on 5704 Glenarm Street. 
The students were selected through a writ­ten applkation process and many were given f'inancial aid to help cover tho project's $250 registration fen. These 22 students traveled from across United Stales to take part in the project, ineluding a carpool of six Notre Dame studnJJts who made tlw 20-hour trek from South BI\JHl to llouslon. 
For many of tho students, the Jimmy Carter Work l'rojnel was thnir l'irsl experience with llahitat for llumanity. The Notre Dame cam­pus chapter members hoped th·at this experi­nnce would spark the intnresl of the newcom­ers to bPeonu~ involved with Habitat for llumanity on campus this year. 
Many of' these rookies do plan to stay involved with Notrn Dame's llabitat chapter this ytmr. 
"This was the f'irst time I volunteered with llahitat." Christina Sullivan said. 
"I havn always wanted to get involved, so wlwn I heard about .JCWI'. I deeided to give it a try and apply. Now I'm hooked and looking forward to working on the South Bend house this year." 

Working on the South Bend house is a com­pletely different experience from the Jimmy Carter Work Project. During the year, Notre Dame's Habitat members only work on the weekends and most or the school year is dedi­cated to building one house. 
But in Houston, the Habitat house was com­pleted in only five days -a typical day in this blitz build was both rewarding and exhausting for the Notre Dame volunteers. After a break­fast in the dorms of Rice University. the Notre Dame volunteers were bussed to the JCWP site. 
From 7 a.m. until 5 p.m. the students ham­mered. painted and sawed. Yet despite the cal­louses, blisters and scratches, there were plenty of opportunities for smiles, laughter and plenty of photographs. The students were able to forge many friendships through their common spirit for Habitat for Humanity. 
'IT WAS VERY INSPIRING TO SEE HOW 
MUCH THEY WANTED TO HAVE A HOME 
AND HOW HARD THEY WORKED TO MAKE 
THAT DREAM POSSIBLE.' 
AMY CRAWFORD 

Many students formed new friendships with Notre Dame alumni working on a neighboring JCWP site. Since the students often turned to the alumni for construction advice, they quick­ly came to know many former Domers. 
In fact, some alumni chose to work full-time on the student house, working side-by-side with the students for all five days. These alum­ni became honorary Student Crew members and wet·e given one of the Student Crew t­shirts to wear on Friday during the dedication of the house. 
Contacts with the alumni were also spiritual­ly strengthened during a mass held on the Notre Dame student site in which Father Jim Lies, rector of Zahm Hall, presided. 
Another important component of the JCWP experience was the bond formed between the students and the partner family. The students worked hard to help build not just a house, but a home, for a family whose spirit and determination they had grown to admire. 
"The family that we worked with and built for was absolutely amazing," said Amy 
Crawford, former president of Notre Dame's Habitat chapter. 
"They were young adults, and I think this helped the students relate to them and enabled all of us to get along so well. The site was always !'illed with laughter and smiles. It was very inspiring to see how much they want­ed to have a home and how hard they worked to make that dream possible, "she said. 
"The Almanzas made it so easy for us to see that what we were doing was extremely important -that we were doing service for friends in need. At the end of the week, Mario and Juanita were welcomed not only into their new home, but into the Notre Dame family as well." 
The Jimmy Carter Work Project is· an international event held in a different city each year. The site for the 1999 JCWP is in the Philippines. But last summer, Notre Dame Habitat volunteers were invited to build the test house for next year's project. 
Recent 1998 graduates Amy Crawford and Kelly McMahon, sophomore Jennifer Farrell and junior Anne Morarity participated in the Phiiippine test project in June. 
The building took place in Bacolod, the Filipino city of smiles, as the girls joined forces with 30 Japanese students. The building site was called Pamana Habitat village and was donated by a Habitat benefactor whose hope was to form a new tradition of bright futut·es and strong families for this optimistic, close­knitted community. 
The houses in the Philippines were much dif­ferent from the houses built in Houston. They were duplexes with no indoor plumbing, com­posed of cement block due to the ban on wood in the Philippines. 
The Notre Dame women were housed in a 12 to-a-room retreat house located about a mile from the building site. Here they experienced the true conditions of living in sub-standard housing -no plumbing, no hot water, and showers taken from a large bucket. 
Anne Morarity, however, was all smiles when she described the positive impact of her journey to a foreign country. 
"This opportunity to build in the Philippines brought my understanding and appreciation of Habitat to a new level. I truly believe this will help me better relate to Habitat's philoso­phy. . 
"There is such a strong urgency for more people to get involved in Habitat for Humanity so we can eliminate sub-standard housing by working together and building one home at at time." 

left: Volunteers in the Philippines work around the ban on wood by constructing homes out of cement. 
Right: Amy Crawford, Bamberg, Greer Vespa, Ni~ol~ Benjamin, Christin~ Sullivan, Jessica Chicalski and Christine Mcintyre (left to right) take a break during the preliminary stages of bUIIdmg Ill Houston 

----~-­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 1998 
•MLB 

Cards win despite 0-3 performance by McGwire 
r--­
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FTBL WKNDS-Cute 3bed/2bath,sleeps 4-Need 2 MICH GA's NO-MICHIGAN TIX NOTICES The Early Childhood Development 6,7min dr,lncl>fs brkfst.For more info call Erin 634-1 006 1 00 Level (2) 
Center,located at Saint Mary's College and 233-3410 Call312-946-3723 THE OBSERVER APOLOGIZES to all the the University of Notre Dame,is looking for I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-Best offer people whose classifieds should have run volunteers who enjoy young children.lf you OFF CAMPUS RENTALS 6306 Leave Message in the past week's editions. In the wake of would be interested in spending 2 hours a AVAILABLE FALL 1999 a hectic move to 024 South Dining Hall; our week reading children's books, building with TICKETMART Inc 
PERSONAL

classified ad computer terminals had sever­blocks, and singing songs with Property 1 ....... .4-5 STUDENTS BUY-SELL-TRADE al problems and did not store the ads cor­children,please call Cindy Hestad at 284· Property 2 ........ 6-8 STUDENTS Notre Dame Football Tickets rectly. Our staff has worked hard to elimi­4693 (ECDC-SMC) or Thayer Kramer at (large common area) 258-1111 For your FREE W.W.J.D. bracelet, call 631­nate the glitches, and we hope the ND/SMC 631-3344 No student tickets please 6385. community will continue to turn to Observer (ECDC-ND).Piease join our fun filled days. Clean,washers/dryers,appliances,security classifieds in the future. Please contact us systems,plenty of parking, nice condition. Relive the memories!! Classic Irish Games if your ad has not yet appeared. Thank you HTML EXPERT WANTED Call Dave or Carolyn 291-2209 ND FOOTBALL TICKETS from 1970s and 80s on VHS Video. for your patience. Fast-paced Internet design and manage­VERY GOOD PRICES Complete network broadcasts, most of 
ment team needs a person skilled in ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 2 MICH-1 PURDUE excellent quality. Call Tom 410-309-0395; 
GO IRISH!!! HTML.Candidates must have an advanced ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO 1 BAYL-1 LSU Email:danyluk@erols.com knowledge of HTML 3.2,including (but not CAMPUS. 243-0658. HONEST/FAST DELIVERY limited to) tables, form design,server-side GO IRISH!!! 
WANTED 

includes,style sheets and browser-specific FLYNN ND/SMC B&B 404 784 1128 
differences in HTML implementation.Strong Private home, 1 0 mins from campus. 3 Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. One year After school child care needed. Mon thru preference will be given to candidates who lovely rooms,one bath.Perfect for families FOR SALE placements in various sectors: human Fri. 3-5 pm, all or any days. Must be good are not dependent on HTML generation or couples traveling together.Available foot­FOOTBALL TICKETS rights, community development, youth, jour­with children. Car & references a must. tools and are able to produce complex ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75-95/nt. Call 271-9412 nalism, microenterprise. health, refugee 
HTML by hand.Skills in interface Alice (219)282-2241. relief, more. Internships in our Washington, Day -234-221_1 (Angela) design,image design and com-pression for WANTED DC office. Eve. -271-8224 Web use, and JavaScript are BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Visions in Action. 
valuable.Salary plus benefits.Contact Coy WEEKENQS,NEAR CAMPUS. 271-1526 (202) 625-7 403. 
Sports Officials Wanted Jankowski at JGSulliven.219.234.2211.or 219-277-6832. Visions@ igc.org for Flag Football. Baseball, and Soccer. submit a resume to ND Ftbl. tix Web: www.visionsinaction.org Good pay, Flexible hours and we will train Resumes@ JGSullivan.com BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL BUY-SELL for each sport. Apply in person at Rolfs WEEKENDS,NEAR CAMPUS. 674-7645 VITO's Barbershop. Sports Activity 219-277-6832. Closed All Day Sun and Wed.Open Daily 8­
FOR RENT 

Center or call631-5100. ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and 4,Sat 8-3. 
Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 233-4767 Ask for DeMond Thomas or 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. Furnished room. 674-7645 Jeff Walker. AVAIL. NOW Very close to campus. When the great score writters come to con­
GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 Water incl. ND Football Tickets Needed. clusion on Saturdays game. they will not 
$200/month. Sept. paid. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 remark on wether we one or loss, but how ND profs seek mature, loving babysitter for 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPU$. FURN. Must rent imm. good our uniforms looked. great 15 month old girl. Flexible hrs, great $175. PER PERSON.272-6551 273-97g5_ Call Ron or Matt for appt. FOR SALE. 2 Michigan GA's.Best Offer. pay. 234-2241,631-7762,631-7138. 634-3193. Ask for Kim SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.Early 
FOR SALE

Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. One year has space available for football/parent bird savings until Oct. 31st.America's best 
placements in various sectors: human wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80-WANTED: 1 Student Ticket for Notre Dame prices and packages. Campus sales reps rights,community development,youth,jour­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll 198 MINUTE PHONE CARDS-$20. CALL vs. Michigan. wanted.Earn free trips+ cash. nalism,microenterprise.health,refugee Road,Exit #107,1-800-418-9487. 243-0658. Call Michael at 4-3236. 1.800.SURFS.UP relief.more.lnternships in our www.studentexpress.com Washington, DC office. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY fine '94 Geo Prizm Need 4 tickets for ND/U-M game. Call 248­Visions in Action.(202)625-7403. home within 10 miles of ND/SMC 219-291-4dr 5spd stereo 60k mi 647-6657 That Shannon is one hot mama!!!!!! Visions@ igc.org 7153 clean sharp & faithful $7200 anytime. Web:www.visionsinaction.org. 237-0608 Bill Hart's perfect night: John Tesh in the 
Furnished room,air,kitchen,laundry fac.,3 2 Michigan GAs for sale background and a couple back issues of 
min. N. of campus.272-0615 Word processor: spell check, thesaurus, Call Tom @271-2845 The Observer. EARLY CHILDHOOD bubble jet, with manuals. Saves, reads PC DEVELOPMENT CENTER­Close to campus. Clean, files on 3.5" disks. pd $300, hardly used, Need 7 Ml Tix!! chachia: three more days and it's back to NOTRE DAME 2 bdrm. Stove,refrigerator,security system. asking $175. Call David at 4-4930 Call Michele@ x1553 party time. 
$450/month.$300 deposit.! yr lease.B01 

... 
The Early Childhood Development Center Corby.Pager 679-8748.Piease leave#. michigan GA 4 sale CM-we miss you here tonight. i know the at Noter Dame,located at18680 Bulla call erin 4-4410 security men do too. Road,is currently accepting applications 1-TICKETS 
from college students for part time posi­Bed and Breakfast for Notre Dame games ND FOOTBALL TIX cara -just tell me when it's time for the tions. and events.Private home 2 miles form cam­NEED MICHIGAN TIX FOR SALE mint, you're going down. The hours are 11 :30 a.m.-1 :05 p.m. MWF pus. Private baths. 289-7136 AM 232-2378 and/or TTH. If you are interested in apply­272-9471 PM 288-2726 mw -did king of clubs call? ing, please contact Thayer Kramer at 631­3344 for more information and an applica­FTBL WKNDS-Charming Cape Cod 2 I NEED MICH. TIX! Need 2 Michigan GA's. anthony bianco is a trouble maker, but i'm 
tion. Bdrm/1 Bth,Sieeps 4-6,7 min drv,lncludes will trade 2 Navy GA's Will pay top dollar. still going to copy edit for him. brkfst.For more info call232-4835 Please call Gina x1825 Call Mqll x1-4378 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day !rom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Associated Press 
Miami 
Mark McGwire went 0-for-3 and lost his lead in the home-run race Monday, but teammate Brian Jordan homered to help the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Florida Marlins 5-3. 
Sammy Sosa hit his 55th homer in the third inning of the Chicago Cubs' game against Cincinnati, tying him with McGwire. Both need one homer to equal Hack Wilson's 68-year-old National League record of 56. 
McGwire struck out twice, walked twice and fouled out. He fell to 0-for-9 lifetime against Marlins starter Kirt Ojala. 
With 25 games left. McGwire remained on a pace to hit 65 homers. Roger Maris set the major-league record of 61 in 1961. 
McGwire worked the count to 3-2 on each of his five trips to the plate, with the crowd of 36,584 rooting for the Cardinals slugger. 
They booed the pitcher when he failed to throw a strike and jeered umpire Angel Hernandez when he called a strike. 
Against Ojala, McGwire fouled out with two on in the first, walked in the third and struck out swinging at an 86-mph fastball in the fifth. 
Against Brian Edmonson, McGwire took a called third strike in the seventh. McGwire, who was ejected for protesting a called third strike Saturday, this time argued briefly and then walked away from the plate shaking his head. 
The crowd hooted when Vic Darensbourg walked McGwire with one out and nobody on in the ninth, and then perhaps half the fans headed for the the Orioles 64-39. Chad Bradford pitched 1 1-3 innings exits. Baldwin (9-5) was yanked in the eighth before Bob Howry got two outs for this 

Before the game, McGwire admitted he after giving up a leadoff single and a third save. Eric Davis flied out to right didn't know much about Wilson and walk. He allowed six hits, one walk and for the final out with two runners on. became aware only recently that the NL an unearned run. Belle's homer, a two-run shot off Scott record for homers was 56. Baldwin, who struck out four and Erickson in the first inning, tied him with 
"People ask me if I know a lot about retired 11 straight batters at one point, Frank Thomas for the club record in one the history of the game, and sometimes I improved to 3-0 against Baltimore this season. Belle has 121 RBis, second in the wish I did," he said. "Then again, I'm season and 7-2 lifetime. AL behind Juan Gonzalez of Texas. happy that I don't, because you ...-------------------------------------, 
don't think about things. But it would be great to go back in time and play against these great players." 
Darren Oliver (2-2) allowed Florida three runs in six innings. Juan Acevedo pitched a scoreless ninth for his fifth save. 
Todd Dunwoody hit his fourth homer for the Marlins. who lost their fifth game in a row. 
The Cardinals took a 2-0 lead in the first against Ojala (1-4) on Jordan's run-scoring single and Ron Gant's RBI groundout. Delino DeShields delivered a two-out RBI single in the second, and Gant doubled home a run in the third to make the score 4-1. 
Baltimore 4, Chicago 1 
Albert Belle hit his 41st homer and James Baldwin pitched seven strong innings as the Chicago White Sox beat Baltimore 4-1 Monday night, extending the Orioles' losing streak to eight games. 
Greg Norton also homered for the White Sox, who have won six of eight. Chicago is 7-2 against Baltimore this season, outscoring 
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
w  L  
Eastern Division  
NY Yankees  98  37  
Boston  80  55  
Toronto  71  66  
Baltimore  69  68  
Tampa Bay  53  83  
Central Division  
Cleveland  75  61  
Kansas City  64  73  
Chicago White Sox  62  75  
Minnesota  60  76  
Detroit  52  85  
Western Division  
Anaheim  76  62  
Texas  73  64  
Oakland  63  75  
Seattle  62  74  

Major League Baseball Stats  
NATIONAL LEAGUE  
PCT  GB  w  L  PCT  GB  
.726 .593 .518 .504 .390  18 28 30 45.5  Eastern Division Atlanta NY Mets Philadelphia Montreal Florida  90 75 66 53 47  48 62 71 85 91  .652 .547 .482 .384 .341  14.5 23.5 37 43  
.551 .467 .453 .441 .380  11.5 13.5 15 23.5  Central Division Houston Chicago Cubs St. Louis Pittsburgh Cincinnati  87 76 65 64 65  51 62 72 71 73  .630 .551 .474 .474 .471  11 21.5 21.5 22  
.551 .533 .457 .456  2.5 13 13  Milwaukee Western Division San Diego San Francisco Los Angeles  64 88 73 68  73 49 64 69  .467 .642 .533 .493  22.5 15 20  
Colorado  63  75  .457  25.5  
Arizona  53  85  .384  35.5  


_1_LI_es_·d_a~~-S_e~p_re_n_1b_e_r_l_,_l_99_8_______________________________ __ ___ page 15
T_heO_bs_erver~S~P~O~R~ll~S______________________ 




'( ) ''l I J ' I £'\
( ~ f >~J ~) ~l(~·!<J 
i1 
.. ·.r···.····~~
~): ,:l.. •·1· •..~ ....·
.. . '';) . ... ~ l .>J 

You're back on campus and you've just noticed your towels from last year are threadbare, your backpack lost a strap and you're wear..ing last year's jeans. What to do? Head to L.S. Ayres! What? Youjustboughtbooksand you have no cash? Not to worry. When you open an Ayres account, you'll save 10% on all your purchases made that day. Towels, backpacks, jeans .... whatever! 

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Sosa hits 55th home run en route to 5-4 victory 
Associated Press 
CIIICAGO 

Sammy Sosa took two curtain calls ­one for himself and one for Kerry Wood. 
Sosa hit his 55th homer in the third inning to tic Mark McGwire for the major league lead Monday night as the Chicago Cubs defeated the Cincinnati Heds 5-4. 
Sosa moved within one homer ol' tying Ilack Wilson's 68-year-old club and National League record when he lined an 0-1 pitch from Brett Tomko into the left-field bleachers in the third. 
After the two-run homer cut the Hods' lead to 4-2, Sosa caine out of the dugout and _as he has so many times this season -acknowledged the adula­tion from a frenzied Wrigley Field crowd. 
Wood lined a two-run homer in the fourth. his second this season. to give Chicago a 5-4 lead, but when fans chanted for him to come back onto the lield. he didn't respond. 
No problem. 

Sosa, who seconds earlier had given Wood an enormous bear hug, jumped up on the dugout step and waved to the fans again. gladly taking a bow for his young teammate. 
Wood ( 13-6) went six innings, strik­ing out 10 and allowing four runs and six hits. He was pulled after throwing 117 pitches. Hod Beck pitched the ninth for his 40th save. 
The Cubs began the night tied with New York for the NL wild card. The Mets played a late game in Los Angeles. 
Sosa's homer was his 30th of the sea­son at home, tying him with Ernie Banks for seeond most in one season at Wrigley. Banks had 30 in 1958. 
Wilson hit 33 at Wrigley in his record-setting season. Sosa, who now has hit 16 homers this season in games started by Wood, also flied out and struck out twice during a 1-for-4 per­formance. 
Jose Hernandez doubled in the fourth and scored when Dmitri Young, who 
Beginning September 7 ...P 
0 
Phase Two of the leadership Institute (ll) is a non credit, six-week leadership course open to Sophomores and Junior leaders. Designed for the intermediate leader, ll explores topics such as conflict resolution and negotiation, understanding leadership styles, teamwork and motivation, delegating, and utilizing university resources. Phase Two of the ll will be held Monday evenings from 6:30p.m. to 7:45p.m. beginning September 7, 1998. To enroll, complete the application form below by 9/4/98 and return to the Student Activities Office, 315 LaFortune Student Center. Enrollment is limited to 25 participants. Ifyou are acceptedas a participant, you will receive a confirmation letter. For more info, olease contact Student Activities at.l-7.30.9. 
LEADERSHIP INSTITUTE APPLICATION FORM 
Name 

Phone# ___________E-Mail Address __________ Address ____________Class ___________ Organizations you are involved in and leadership positions held, ifany: 
Please return this bottom portion to the Student Activities0flice,3l5 LaFortune Student Center by 9/4/98 Spoce in Ll is limited and filled on a first come, first serve basis. 
had homered earlier, missed Gary Gantti's f'ly ball to left. Wood then homered to left for a 5-4 lead. Tomko (11-11) gave up six hits and five runs -only two earned-in 5 2-3 innings. 
Young's 12th homer followed a single by Barry Larkin and a walk in the third, staking the Hods to a 4-0 lead. 
Young had an infield HBI single otr third baseman Gaetti's glove in the first after an error on Lanco Johnson, who dropped Hoberto l'otagine's long f'ly to center. 
Cleveland 15, Oakland 6 
Hichie Sexson hit a two-run single in Cleveland's biggest first inning in 44 years on Monday night. and drove in four r-uns, including his fourth homer in three days, as the Indians beat the Oakland Athletics 15-6. 
Manny Hamirez hit his career-high 34th homer and drove in five runs, giv­ing him 118 HBls. Sexson, who hit a 409-foot bonier to dead center in the second, had four HBls for the third time since being recalled from the minors on Aug. 8 to replace injured first baseman Jim Thome. 
Oakland's Hickey Henderson had his AL-Ieading 57th steal, hit his 11th homer and scored his 2,000th career run when he walked and came home on Jason Giambi's sacrifice fly in the fifth. lie is the sixth player to reach the milestone, joining Ty Cobb, Hank Aaron. Babe Huth, Pete Hose and Willie Mays. 

Hours after acquiring second base­man Joey Cora from Seattle for David Bell, the Indians scored 10 runs in their first at-bat for the first time since July 6, 1954. They scored 11 in the ... first inning against Baltimore in that game and won 11-3 on the way to an AL pennant. 
Cora, hit by a pitch to help spark Cleveland's 10-run first, extended his hitting streak to 17 games with an HBI single in the sixth to make it 15-6. The Indians beat Oakland for the second straight game al'tcr losing eight consee­utive to the A's. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 1998 
• COLLEGE FOOTBALL 



No. I OSU faces early test against West Virginia 
Associated Press about Florida? They've got.The Citadel." In Ohio State's 108 years of football, COLUMBUS, Ohio the Buckeyes have opened on the other 
H.Pst assured Ohio State coach John team's home field just seven times. Cooper won't be humming anything Woody Hayes was the coach in 1975 and about West Virginia being almost heav­Archie Griffin was at tailback the last en. time OSU hit the road for an opener.
Cooper is considinably less than There are a lot of reasons why Cooper enthusiastic that his top-ranked isn't looking forward to any country Buckeyes have to open on the road in a ·roads taking him home. hostile environment against No. 11 West For starters, the Buckeyes will be Virginia on Saturday night. spending Friday night in Washington, 
"If I was making the schedule at Ohio Pa., about 75 miles away from State. I would not play a non-conference Morgantown. road game. Period," the 11th-year coach They will ride buses into and out of said during his weekly news conference Morgantown, a route on which extensive Monday. "When you have 93,000 people road construction could produce lengthy 
watching you play every game at home, waits in traffic. why go on the road to play?" The opening kickoff of an NFL exhibi­
But the Buckeyes were apparently tion game Aug. 22 in Morgantown had stuck with having to travel to to be pushed back because the Atlanta Morgantown. as a payback for the Falcons were unable to get to the stadi­
Mountaineers traveling to Ohio Stadium um in time because of traffic and con­for a 24-3 loss in 1987. struction. 
So in addition to the pressure of A capacity crowd of 63,500 -an upholding the team's first No. 1 ranking · overwhelming majority rooting for the in 18 years, Ohio State also is heading Mountaineers -will be on hand. into a place where the game has become Tickets to the game haven't been avail­a crusade. able for months, unless one is willing to 
"It's going to be a hostile place to play, part with a large stack of currency.but we've been to Notre Dame, Penn Every hotel is sold out and most have a 
Courtesy of West Virginia Sports Info 
State, Iowa, Washington al)d the 

waiting list if a room should somehow West Virginia running back Amos Zeroue and the rest of the Mountaineers will have the first Superdome," Cooper said. become available. shot to upset top-ranked Ohio State when the Buckeyes travel to Morgantown this Saturday.Cooper· said he would much prefer to Another reason for Cooper's reluc­
Ten offensive lineman Rob Murphy. such notification from Ohio State's acad­have a couple of patsies lined up. tance is the iffy academic situation of "We know when they're taking their emic counselors. The coaching staff"''d play an easy non-conference game some of his star players. 
finals. but we don't know when the hopes to get the word on the threeat home, like Nebraska's been doing for LinebackerAndy Katzenmoyer ­teachers are turning the grades in," starters as early as Wednesday and noyears and years and years," he said. cover boy on the current Sports Cooper said. "They're not eligible until later than Friday. Good or bad. thatHe chuckled as he pointed to the Illustrated and the guy who currently the grades are posted." would eliminate one of the constantCornhuskers' 56-27 victory Saturday wears Griffin's No. 45 on his jersey-has Despite published reports quoting questions Cooper has faced.
over Louisiana Tech and added, "They yet to make the grade in summer school. 
Murphy that he had already passed hi!? "TheJOC have been a lot of distractions come back this week with another tough Thesame goes for standout strong safety classes. Cooper said he has received no because of academics," he said. 
one: Alabama-Birmingham. And how Damon Moore and second-team All-Big 
• WoMEN's SoccER 


North Carolina coach Dorrance to fight lawsuit 
Associated Press refused to comment. player of the year Debbie claims Dorrance repeatedly lawsuit alleges. Dorrance When asked if he was men­Keller and reserve goalkeeper made "uninvited, unauthorized coerced Keller into meetingCHAPEL HILL, N.C. tally prepared for a possible Melissa .Jennings. and offensive physical contact" him at a secluded area where 
Anson Dorrance vowed 

long court battle, Dorrance Keller, who played for the with her between 1994 and he made an "uninvited sexual 
Monday to fight a $12 million said, "I am now. absolutely. I Tar Heels from 1993-96, 1996. In Oetober1996, the advance." sexual harassment lawsuit understand what is going to filed by two former North happen. We are prepared. the Carolina women's soccer play­university is certainly pre­
ers, saying he won't settle the pared. case out of court. "A wonderful thing about 
"I want my name cleared. I this is my athletic director and want this program clear.ed," chancellor have stood up and said Dorrance, coach of the been counted. All athletics is, 15-time national champion is public relations. Athletics is soccer program at North supposed to be positive public Carolina. "I am looking for­relations. and yet despite the 
ward to that wonderful ride." allegations the support has Thomas Ziko of the state been fantastic. That is a very
Attorney General's Office, the powerful endorsement." lead lawyer for Dorrance and The lawsuit was filed last the University of North Tuesday in U.S. District Court Carolina in the civil case, in Chicago by 1996 national 

t}> {JelfiJ,el'iJie f}d~t Pizza.! 
~ 
MEN IN BLACK 'i(JhJ-~~? 7fl~u~~? 

)~... flc-~. e.s.e )~... 'Bitt "UUad. e.s.e. 
?rn mMe ~()#(, tk '71~ ~ ~JH,e-~~ ~~ ~ S~ • 1twu V....U. 1"""'-46SS6 
(219) 631-635'S • Mlp:((.__....t.e«..l-~ 
ANSWERidP. THECALLW 


/Vfelcomellt'hck, Students! 
1

• ~ Gotf"a Call Papa! •
u;aQr_a £)~~ ~~crw ~ zgtl~tl ~tlll~tlZJtl~ 
Dine-In available at ND Store 
(1827 South dAve.) 


·Nf" and at North Viii I near St. Mary's 

~--~----------­
----------------------------~-----------------­
Tuesday, September I, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• CoLLEGE FooTBALL 

-


Seminoles overpower Aggies at Kickoff Classic 

Associated Press 
EAST HUTIIEHFOHD, N.J. 
c;ood old Chris Weinkn received all the help hn need­nd from young pals Peter Warrick and Travis Minor as No. 2 Florida State wore down No. 14 Texas A&M for a 23-14 victory in the KiekoiT Classic on Monday night. 
Tho 26-year-old Weinke, who returned to Florida State aftnr six years of pro baseball, t h r«~ w a go -a he ad CJ -y a r d touchdown pass to Warrick latn in the third quartor to cap a successful ddJut in his first start in nearly nine years. 
Weinkn compl1~ted his first pass, a 30-yarder to Warrick, and finislwd 21-for-3(> for 207 yards and no interceptions. 
Thn def'nnse chipped in. too, holding the Aggies to a paltry 20 yards in the second half and I :n overall. 
Warrick gavn Weinke an open target all night, catching a 1:arnnr-high nine JHtsses for 10(> yards. Minor. a sopho­morP liknWeinkn but only 1C) years old, set a school record with 34 carries 11.nd ran for 14(> yards and a touchdown. 
Tlw Smninoles wn1·n expnet­nd to have an easy time with the Aggins. who last beat a 
• WNBA fiNALS 
top-5 team in 1975, but Texas A&M gave eoach Bobby Bowden's team all it could handle in the first three quar­ters before tiring. 
With A&M leading 14-10 at halftime, the Seminoles went to work, closing to 14-13 on Sebastian Janikowski's second field goal, a 28-yarder with (>:43 left. 
Warrick and Weinke then hooked up to give the Seminoles the lead for good. Warrick returned an A&M punt 21 yards to the Aggies 37, but four plays later, he limped off the field after defensive back Sedrick Curry rolled ovf~r Warrick's right ankle. 
Five plays later, Warrick was back and Weinke spotted him open at the 1. Warriek caught pass, faked a defender, and scored with five seeonds ldt in the third quarter to make it 20-14. 
.Janikowski dosed the scor­ing with his third field goal of the game, a 22-yarder with 
3:26 remaining. 
A (;iants Stadium erowd of 59,232 saw a l"irst half filled with blunders, as neither offense could sustain a long drive and each committed two turnovers. The Aggies got the 

best of the breaks when cor­nerback Jay Brooks scooped up Weinke's fumble and ran 21 yards for a TD with 29 sec­onds left in the half, putting Texas A&M ahead 14-10. 
Last season, the Seminoles trailed at halftime only once, 18-17 against Florida, which handed Florida State its only loss of '97. 
Three plays after his first completion, Warrick fumbled after a 7-yard reception and linebacker Cornelius Anthony recovered at the A&M 22. 
The Seminoles took a 7-0 lead on Minor's 3-yard TD run 
7:58 into the game, complet­ing a 39-yard drive that began when Stewart fumbled the snap and FSU cornerback Troy Saunders recovered. 
Sirr Parker fumbled on the Aggies' next possession and linebacker Tommy Polley recovered at the Texas A&M 35. 
The Seminoles settled for a 33-yard field goal by Janikowski. 
Stewart, who was 10-for-21 for 100 yards, got the Aggies back in the game, completing a 49-yard pass to wide receiv­er Chris Cole down to the Seminoles 13, and D'Andre Hardeman scored from a yard out five plays later to make it blindsided by linebacker 10-7 early in the second quar­Christian Hodriguez. ter. The ball popped loose, 

The Aggies took the lead Brooks scooped it up and ran when Weinke dropped back to into the end zone for the pass from his own 20 and was touchdown. 

Gillom, Mercury prepare for decisive Game three 
Associated Press 
IIOUSTON 
J1H111ifnr Gillom expeets more physical play from the Houston Comets -and a bnttnr game from lwrself-as the Phoenix Mnrcury try to win the WNBA championship Tunsday night. 
"W1~ arn usnd to physical play, I have to expnct that." 
Gillom said Monday. "You won't see the Jennifer you saw Saturday, believe me." 
Gillom, the Mereury's top scorer, was bottled up and blitzed by the Comets in Game 2 and managed to score only eight points as her team lost 74-69 in ov<ll'time. 
The result tied the best-of-3 series at 1-1. setting up 
Fall Break Seminars 
October 18-23, 1998 Expcricnlial/Scrvice Leilrning 
Center for Social Concerns 
-Service Learning at lliW of 15 ~ites in the App.ll<~chi.ll1 n•gion One credit Tlwol,,g)" Information meeting: Tuesday, Septembt•r 8, 7:30-8:00 I'M 

CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR 
-Explore the cultural nchness of Chicago -Examine issues oi divers1ty <1nd related concerns -One-credit Theology or Sociology 
Cosponsored With tvlulticultural Studt•nt Affairs -Information meeting· Tuesday, Sept. 8, 4:15-4:451'M 
WASHINGTON SEMINAR Violence and NollviolcllCt' ill A111erican Ll}f> 
Direct conli1ct w1th political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Government Information nweting: Tuesday, September 8, 7:00-7:30 PM 

CHILDREN & I'OVEIUY SEMINAR NPw seminM t'xamin1ng kt.!y childn•n's concerns Focus on direct serv1,·'" ,md policy initi.1tives Site: Boston or N,•w York Information met•tings· Sept. zud, 4:15 I'M & Sept. 8th, 6:30PM 
Applicillions Av.lil.1bl<' Now ill tlw CSC 

C ( 1'1 T [ K F 0 II 
SOCIAL
Applicillions Dut•: Thurs., Sept. IOL l29H 
CONCERNS 

Tuesday night's final game. 
Gillam had one of her worst performances of the season, shooting 3-for-15. 
The Mereury won the opener 54-51 in Phoenix, and had the upper hand in Game 2, but Gillom didn't respond well to the double-teaming and the pushing and shoving inside. 
"''ll be ready for double-and triple-teaming and the unnec­essary rough stuff," Gillom 
MATUBA 
~ Japanese Restaurant ~ Authenlic. Healthy Delicious. The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You"re very special to Matuba. We would like to Invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din­ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrimp tern­pur, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyaki chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetable sushi or man other traditional Ja anese dishes. 
l..uldlSpecial-$0.95 IAT'e"Spm-$14$ 1 · Beef Negimaki 1 -Teriyaki Chicken 2 · Egg Rolls 1 · Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 -White Fish Sushi 4 pc -California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc-Cucumber Rolls 4 pc-California Rolls 1 -Miso Soup 8 pc -Tuna Rolls 1 -Salad 1 -Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 -Miso Soup Green Tea 1 -Salad May change weekly plus JapaneseGreen Tea 
Lunch Dinner 

Sushi( 13 pieces) $6.95 $8.95 Sushi (14 pioces $7.95 $11.95 Sushi veg. chicken (12 pc) $6.95 $6.95 Sushi no raw fish (13 pc) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi(16pioces) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces) $16.95 $t6.95 Sushi&Sashimicombo $18.95 $18.95 
plus M<;o Soup Lunch:11·2 Mon-Fri Dinner: 5·9 Mon·Thurs.S-10 Fri-Sat 
251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken 
said. "It frustrated me Saturday, but 1 won't let that happen again." 
Despite losing a 12-point lead in the final eight minutes of Game 2, the Mercury haven't lost their confidence. 
"We're looking at this posi­tively, that we did get 12 points up on them," guard Michele Timms said. "We're going to see it as a positive thing rather than we got 12 points up and they came back and bit us." 
For the Comets, it gave them a shot of confidence. 
"They blew the lead because we started playing defense," the 
Comets' Cynthia Cooper said. "During the timeout, we said, 
'let's rebound and get the job done on defense and everything else will fall into place.'" 
Coach Van Chancellor put the Comets through their reg­
ular workouts Sunday, while the Mercury took the day off. Both teams worked out at Compaq Center on Monday. 
Chancellor anticipated an all-out battle in the finale ­and a better game from Gillom. 
"I think Jennifer will play better in the next game, but somebody 
isn't going to get all of those shots," Chancellor said. "They played well but I think wn'll be relaxed Tuesday." 
Phoenix coaeh Cheryl Miller is positive, considering that her team only lost by five points in Game 2 despite an off-day from her best player. 
"II' you thought Game 2 was a dogfight, you haven't seen anything yet," Miller said. "We won't hold anything back.... I don't need to reiterate the obvious. They have played with the passion of champi­ons." 
JOIN THE OBSERVER STAFF AT SAINT MARY'S ACTIVITIES NIGHT. ANGELA ATHLETIC FACILITY THURSDAY SEPT. 3 AT 7 P.M. 


INTERESTED IN THE RHODES AND MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIPS 
Professor Donald Sniegowski will have afinal meeting to Inform you or de~dlble 
··~. ·  ;  dates and the application process on  ~ ::~:::  ·  
Tuesday~ September I~ 1998 "7:00p.m. **129 DeBartolo**  

.If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may b~ obtained in 102·8 · O'Shaughnessy H~ll ~fte( the.l'l)eeting 





The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
The World is Waiting for All ND/SMC Students ... Get Involved. 
• Seven diverse divisions  • Meet prominent business  
• Consulting and research  and political professionals  
opportunities  • Experience professionalism  
• International Internships  • Familiarize yourself with  
and Teaching Positions  stock markets and investing  
available  • Increase your political,  
• Organize international  economic, and cultural  
humanitarian projects  awareness  

-



Backers 
continued from page 24 
starting all 13 games. Despite his big-game experience, Friday has yet to emerge with a game-breaking performance. 
With the abundance of talent and leadership, depth will be a key for the Irish linebackers. 
Junior Ronnie Nicks, sopho­more Anthony Denman and freshman Tyreo Harrison will all support the core of seniors, either in a starting role or to give much-needed, mid-game 
breaks, a luxury the team did linebackers do." 

Recycle the Observer 
I 
not have in 1997. 
"!Having a group of seniors] makes my job easier," said Doll. "It's also been good for the young linebackers to see how to work, how to play the game." 
With talented teams like Michigan, Michigan State and Arizona State on the schedule, there is little room for error. Consistency is especially important on the defensive end. 
"We have to make sure we're using people in the right situa­tions," said Doll, "and then make the plays. That's what 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 1998 
~~----------------------------------~~----------­
• BOXING 


Tyson in trouble with law again 
Associated Press 
GAITI-IERSBUHG, Md. 
Mike Tyson was involved in a 
minor auto accident Monday 
and had to be restrained by 
his own bodyguards from 
fighting the driver of the other 
car, police said. 
Nobody was injured in the accident, described by police as a"fender-bender," in this northern Maryland suburb near Washington. No one was arrested. 
Tyson was a passenger in the Mercedes convertible dri­ven by his wife, Monica Turner, who apparently struck the car in front of hers, said Derek Baliles, a spokesman for the Montgomery County police. 
Tyson got out of the car and "appeared to want to fight the other driver," said Baliles. "He was restrained by his wife and members of his security detail who were traveling in a sec­ond ear." 
The other driver was not identified. 
Because passersby called to report the incident, police stopped Tyson a short time later, he said. 
"Because of the reports of a fight we wanted to be sure everyone was OK," said Baliles. "While we were speak­ing to Mr. Tyson, he requested an ambulance, complaining of chest pains." 
But once the ambulance arrived, Tyson refused to be taken to a hospital, saying his wife was a doctor and would tend to him, Baliles said. The Tyson group was then allowed to leave. 
However, several hours later a spokeswoman for Shady Grove Hospital said Tyson was in the emergency room. She said he did not come by ambu­lance and said his condition did not appear to be serious. She declined to give further details. 
"We are writing it up as a misdemeanor assault," said Baliles. 
"In the state of Maryland, if a misdemeanor occurs and it's not in the presence of a police officer, we can't place charges or place anyone under arrest." 
It is up to the other driver to decide whether to make a complaint to police, and it was 

STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, you relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
RETREAT DATES: OCTOBER 9-11, 1998 
FORMS 
AUGUST 31 THRU SEPT. 4 
AVAILABLE: 
Before 4:00 p.m. -Sept. 4 DEADLINE: Campus Ministry Office CONTACT: 
SIGN UP 1 03 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 

(tMPUS COST: MINISTRY
$30.00 

----------~~--------------------~ 
unclear if he wanted to pursue the matter, Baliles said. 
A telephone call to the New York office of Tyson adviser Shelly Finkel was not returned Monday night. 
Tyson is scheduled to appear Sept. 19 at a hearing before the Nevada Athletic Commission to determine if the state will let him box again. 
Tyson was banned by the commission in July 1997 after biting Evander Holyfield's ears during their heavyweight championship fight. His license was revoked and he was fined $3 million. 
All Majors and Years Welcome! No foreign language skills required. 
At Activities Night, come to TABLE 29 to learn more! Visit the Council at http://www.nd.eduf .....ndcibd/ 
TOMGH~I~! AC~I~VI11113S MGH~I1! 
Featuring 


I Accounting Club 

50 Le Cercle francais 99 Irish Gardens s21 
Charles Martin Youth Center A I Aikido Club 
2 African American Student Alliance 

51 League of Black Business Students I00 Adworks s22 The Children's Dispensary A2 
Bowling Club 
3 African Students' Associalion 

52 NDMIS I 0 I ND Video s23 
Circle K International A3 Boxing Club 
4 Air Force ROTC 

53 Marketing Club 102 Assoc. Of Art History Students 524 Comm. Alliance to Serve Hispanics A4 Climbing Club 
5 Alpha Epsilon Della 

54 Medieval Club I03 Hispanic Law Students Assoc. s25 Community Resource Center AS Cricket Club 
6 Amateur Radio Club 

55 MAES/SI'ii'E I04 Chinese Friendship Assoc. S26 Council for Fun and Learning A6 Cycling Club 
7 American Chemical Society 

56 Minority Pre-Med Society I05 Gennan Club s27 Dismas of Michiana A 7 
Equestrian Team 
8 Amer. Institute of Chemical Eng. 

57 Mock Trial Association I06 Irish Marauder Drill Team 528 
Educational Talent Search A8 Field Hockey Club 
9 Amer. Society of Mechanical Eng. 

58 Model United Nations I07 Tau Bela Pi 529 
El Buen Vecino A9 Figure Skating Club 
I 0 A mer. Society of Civil Engineers 

59 Mu Alpha Theta I08 High School Ambassadors 530 Experiential Leaming Council A I 0 Gymnastics Club 
II Anthropology Club 

60 Muhicullural Executive Council I09 Campus Fellowship s31 Foodshare A II Judo Club 
12 Arts Collective 

61 Muslim Students' Association IIA Holy Cross Vocations s32 
Girl Scouts of Singing Sands A12 Martial Arts Institute 
13 Asian American Association 

62 NAACP II 0 Campus Ministry 533 Habitat for Humanity A13 Men's Club Volleyball
14 Asian lnlemalional Society 

63 National Society of Black Engineers Ill Liturgical Choir 534 
Hansel Head Start A14 Men's Water l'olo 
15 Bagpipe Band 

64 Native American Student Assoc. 112 Women's Liturgical Choir s35 Hospice of St. Joseph County A 15 Pom-Pon Squad
16 Ballet Foklorico Azul y Oro 

65 NDesign 113 Handbell Choir s36 Hugh O'Brien Youth Leadership A16 Rowing Club 
17 Ballroom Dance Club 

66 Not-So-Royal Shakespeare Co. 114 Emmaus 537 Helpful Undergraduate Students A17 Sailing Club 
18 Baptist Collegiate Minislly 

67 Nuestra Voz 115 Coro Primavera de Nuestra Senora 538 Junior Achievement Club of ND A18 Ski Team/Club
19 Biology Club 

68 llw Oh.l'ert•er (newspaper) 116 Voices of Faith s39 
Juvenile Justice Center A19 Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club 
20 Black Cull ural Arts Festival 

69 Omicron Delta Epsilon 117 ND Chorale 540 Knights of Columbus A20 Ultimate Frisbee Club 
21 Children of Mary 

70 Pan-African Cultural Center 118 SMC-ND Collegiate Choir s41 Legal Services Program of N. IN A21 Women's Boxing Club 
22 Class of 1999 

71 l'asquerilla East Musical Company 119 Folk Choir s42 
Life Treatment Center A22 Women's Water Polo 
23 Class of 2000 

72 Physics Club 120 lloly Cross Sisters 543 Logan Center A23 World Taekwondo Federation 
24 Class of 200 I 

73 Pre-Law Society 122 Sacred llean Parish s44 Logan Center (ND Club) 
25 College Democrats 

74 Pre-Physicalll1erapy Club 123 Sacred lleart Parish S45 Super Sibs 
26 College Republicans 

75 Pre-Professional Society 125 Trident Naval Society S46 Best Buddies 
RecSports & F.A.S.T.
27 Computer Applications Honor Soc. 

76 l're-Vel Club 126 Troop N.D. s47 Mem. Hospital Medical Explorers 
First Aid Services Team
28 Juggling Club 

77 Psychology Club 127 Society of Automotive Engineers s48 Mental Health Association 
RSI-RS5
29 Council on lnt'l Business Dev. 

78 Scholastic Magazine s I Catholic Charities s49 Ms. Wizard Day Program 
30 Debate Team 

79 Science Business Club s2 Hannah's House 550 
Neighborhood Study Help Prog. 
3I /!ome (yearbook) 

80 Shenanigans 53 Women's Care Center s51 NE Neighborhood Council 
Athletic Clubs 
32 Entrepreneur Club 

81 The Sirens s4 AIDS Assist/SWAT s52 Recyclin' Irish 
AI-A23
33 Farley flail Players 

82 Society of Women Engineers 55 Big Brothers/Big Sisters s53 ND/SMC Right To Life 
34 Filipino American Student Org. 

83 Sarin Cadet Club s6 Manantial and La Casa de Amistad 554 St. Jospeph Chapin St. llealthcare 
35 Flip Side 

84 Spanish Club s7 CSC Summer Seminar Project s55 St. Vincent De Paul Society Campus Ministry 
36 Guitar l'layers 

85 St. Edward's Hall Players s8 CSC Post Grad Service S56 Sex Offense Services 
110-117
37 Hawaii Club 

86 Knights of the Immaculata s9 CSC Urban Plunge s57 Slice of Life 
38 llispanic Business Student Assoc. 

87 /11r Juxxter SIO Center for Social Concems s58 South Bend Comm. School Corp. 
.19 Humor Artists 

88 Student Alumni Relations Group Sll Center for Social Concems s59 SBCSC Adult Education Social Service Orgs. 
40 India Assoc. of Notre Dame 

89 Student Players s12 Washington DC Break Seminar s60 St. Advocate For Inclusive Ministry SI-S69 
41 hllcmational Stmlcnl Organization 

90 Student Union Board 513 Appalachia Break Seminar s61 Student Tutorial Ed. Program 
42 Investment Club 

91 Progressive Student Alliance 514 American Cancer Society s62 Students Against Drunk Driving 
43 Irish Dancing Chob 

9~ Toastmasters International 515 Amnesty lnlemational s63 Students for Environ. Action 
44 llalian Club 

9] Vietnamese Student Association 516 Arnold Air Society s64 Students for Responsible Business Need help finding a club? 
45 Japan Club 

95 WSND Sl7 Campus Alliance for Rape Ed. s65 Twenty-first Century Schools See a member ofthe Club 
46 Joint Engineering Council 

96 WVFI SIS ND/SMC Campus Girl Scouts s66 University Young Life 
Coordination Council. 
4 7 Judicial Council 

97 Saferide 519 The Center for the Homeless s67 Women's Resource Center 
48 Korean Student Association 

98 Student Union (Government) s20 Cntr. forHomeless Children's Group s68 World Hunger Coalition 
49 La Alianza 

s69 Center for Basic Leaming Skills 

A1-A23 
S61-S69 

S49-S60 76­
1­
101
25 
s 
26­S27­

102­
E
50


DEMO
S48 
108 
109-A 


AREA 
127 T 
51­
I 
75 
N G 
S/5-S26 
S1-S/4 

.... 
RecSports Tables RSJ-RS5


GATE3 

Featuring Club Demonstrations 
7: IS p.m. Bagpipe Band 7:30p.m. Filipino American 
Student Organization 7:45p.m. Gymnastics .Club 8:00p.m. Juggling Club 


-
8:15p.m. The Sirens 8:30p.m. Judo Club 8:45p.m. World Taekwondo Federation 


-
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 1998 
• NFL 




Levens back in camp for Pack, Mirer may be next 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 
Pro Bowl halfback Dorsey Levens practiced for the first time since the Super Bowl on Monday, and flanker Robert Brooks returned to action just 24 days after undergoing back surgery. 
With his team back at full force, general manager Ron Wolf proclaimed the Packers the team to beat in the NFC again. 
That didn't prevent him, how­ever, from pursuing quarter­back Rick Mirer, who was cut by Chicago. 
Levens participated in a no­pads practice and looked to be tender for $2.742 million, which allowed him to report to the Packers while the finishing touches arc put on a five-year, $25 million package. 
It also allows the Packers to transfer their franchise designa­tion to another player such as Antonio Freeman, providing Levens accepts an extension before the end of the season. 
Levens is expected to sign a long-term contract any day. What protection does he have against injury in the interim? 
"Shoulder pads, knee pads, thigh pads," Levens said. "We're not in pads until Wednesday, so I'll call Lloyd's of London before then." 
Holmgren was delighted his would be disastrous, if we wait­~d all this time and then all of a sudden something like that hap­pened." 

By showing up for work, Levens can collect $161,294 a week under the tender deal while Green Bay and agent Hadley Engelhard negotiate a five-year contract. 
Holmgren might start Travis Jervey or Raymont Harris at halfback, but he's not ruling out going with Levens. 
"It's not unprecedented that backs have come in without a training camp and play," Holmgren said. "Emmitt Smith did it." 
Smith had 45 yards on eight carries in his return from a 63­Sydney said Levens looked rusty and will have to concentrate to the little things in the playbook: "The basic X's arrd O's he'll get, but he's got to remember where the apostrophes go." 
Levens isn't the only one try­ing to make up for lost time. 
Brooks returned to practice Monday for the first time since Aug. 7, when he underwent microscopic disc surgery. 
Brooks said his lower back had been bothering him since Week 5 of last season, when he got hit hard in Chicago. Since then, he'd been stilT and a step slow, rendering him unable to avoid tacklers, which in turn led to several nagging injuries. 

Now that he's pain-free, Brooks said he could cut loose for the first time since the start of the 1996 season, before he shrndded his right knee. 
Wolf was making an all-out effort to lure Mirer. but other possible destinations included Denver, San Francisco and Oakland. 
"lie has to go where he feels comfortable, and only he can make that decision," Wolf said. "But I can tell you this: I will not guarantee anything, but we have not thrown in the towel." 
But Wolf did issue a Tuesday deadline for a decision. "We're either in or out tomor­row," he said. 
in great shape. Coach Mike Pro Bowl halfback was finally in day holdout in 1993 before win­Holmgren said he'll play Levens the fold. ning his third straight rushing 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 

in the season opener Sunday "We just have to be smart ti tie and carrying the Dallas against Detroit but wasn't sure hopefully on how we handle it," Cowboys to a second consecu­
INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM to what extent. Holmgren said. "I don't want tive Super Bowl championship. Levens acknowledged that his him to pull a muscle. That Running backs coach Harry training camp holdout hurt him 
SANTIAGO, CHILE
despite his rigorous individual regimen that included a track coach and personal trainer. 
SPRING 1999 

WantA
"Let's get one thing straight 
INFORMATION MEETINGS WITH 
first. There is no shape like foot­ball shape," Levens said. "It's a 
PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADON 


Challenge?
completely different thing." And he won't get hit until 
WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 2, 1998
Wednesday's workouts, either. Still. Levens said he can be a 

OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
4:45P.M. factor against the Lions. 
207 DEBARTOLO 
"I think so, but it's going to 

Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force 
take some time. The timing's 

Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned 
not there. There's work to be 

officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 15,1998 
done," he said. "Being in the 

complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
4:45P.M.
system for a while and off talent 

plus the opportunity to travel and 
alone, I think I can get a little 

AIM HIGH see the world. To discover how high 
216 DEBARTOLO 
bit done." 

a career in the Air Force can take
AIR
Levens ended his holdout 

-FORCE"'~ you, call 1-800-423-USAF, or visit 
Sunday by signing a one-year 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 1, 1998

our website at www.airforce.com
www.airforce.com 





Extra! Extra! 
The Power Macintosh G3 is the fastest comp:Jter v;2've ever built. With the brutish PowerPC'" G3 processor at its heart, the G3 connects quickl·; to the Internet, opens PC files with ease, mcrease~ personal productivity, and uniocks creativity-at asurprisingly affordable price. 
But wait, it gets better. If you purchase a PowerMac·· G3 desktop or minitower or a PowerBook" G3 between July 11 ::tnd October 24, you can also choose one of these three powerful add-ons at no additional cost. 


Think different. 


32MB of Additional Memory Add this, and you have the capability to access the Internet while running multiple software applications. It also lets you work with high-end multimedia/publishing applications 
and squeeze every ounce of performance out of feature­
rich word processing and spreadsheet software or DVD­
ROMs. 

Virtual PC 2.0 with Windows 95 Just add Virtual PC and it's no problem to run popular 
PC programs on your Mac. 
$100 Display Rebate 
Add an Apple 17" or Apple 20" display (16.1 and 19.Q2 
inch diagonal viewable image size) to your Power 
Macintosh G3 desktop, minitower, or PowerBook 
computer and you have the option of receiving a$100 
rebate. 

Free Bonus Offer for Higher Ed ONLY! One Year Applecare· Service Plan 
Receive aFREE year of AppleCare· service coverage as abonus. This is in addition to the original one 
year-limited warranty for atotal of two years of service coverage. 
©l~9H Apple Computer. Inc. All righL~ n:scr\'cd. Apple, the Apple !o~o. ,\lacmtiJ,,h, I~Jwcr ,\lacmtosh, Puwcrllook, i~lac. and "Think difll!rcnt" an: trademark~ of AQplc l:umptucr, Inc., I'CI!,i.'tct-rd in the Ii,S.A. and jJ\hcrwuntnc~. \1ftuall11: i~ a tratlctnark 11f ComlL'CIL'\. Appk•Care L' arcwstcml ~cr\'in· mark uf ,\pplc Computer. Inc. PowcrPC Is atrademark nf lntrrnatiunal lltL~incs.• .\lachine~ Corpumlion. Ll'iCd under hccn~c tht.'refmm. Other 11rnduct ami cnm11anr mtmc~ mclltiiJIIl'd herem ma~· be traJcnmrk.' ul their rc~ccti\'c cump:mil>:~. ,\lcntiun uf mm-AJlplc producL~ l~ for mfurmallunal purpoM.'S un~· and ccm~tttutes neither an cntlur~mcnt nnr a rccnmmcmlatinn. Applt' :t.'l.~tnnc~ no I"C'!ltltt,ibilitywith reJ~;ml tu the ~ck.'CIHJII, [ICrfurmaucc. or ti.\C uf tiii.'M.' prnducb. l'crfnrmomcc compan"nt~ arc h:L~d on BYTEnmrk mtc~r index. 
www.a le.com/education or 1-800 877-4433 

Tuesday, August 31, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
• MEN's SoccER 
-

Irish hoping practice pays off against Crusaders 
By ANTHONY BIANCO team has the contests in which With the intense practices Spores Writer to prove their skills. For the and teamwork the Irish have Irish, that opportunity begins shown in the preseason, the In tlw sports world, the old tonight as they open their reg­team is confident that they adagn "practice makes per­ular season against have something to show on the 
l'nct" only makes sense when a Valparaiso. field. 
"Through lthe preseason] the team has excelled with the strong motivation and excite­ment that a new season brings," said head coach Mike Berticelli. "At this point, we don't need to work on any one thing in particular. All the teams on our schedule are ready to play, and so are we, as we should be." 
Tlw eagerness to take to the field has come from an intense serins ol' preseason focuses. The Irish have built on a defense that only allowed nine goals in 11 Big East conference matchups a year ago to estab­The Observer/Kevin Dalum lish a !TIOre aggressive offense. Bandera (left) takes part in a practice earlier this season. Focusing on a full-pressure defensive style of play that the 1m hopes will give them ball ·ssession deep in the attack 
ne, the Irish look to score e quick goals snatched up ep in opponent's territory. 'The focus on a full pressure fense has allowed us to gain ssessions while on the offen­1e, catching [opponents] off­lard," said junior Matt· ;New. rhis more goal-focused uad has developed well thus ·for the Irish. In two presea­n games, the team amassed 
shots, including 21 this Hlkend against DePaul. As The Observer/Kevin Dalum e season begins, the Irish The men's soccer team is looking to extend its undefeated record II now concentrate on finish­against Valpo when they face them in the season opener tonight. 
{ those plays with goals. 'We getting more creative of the net can easily leave the and midlielder Matt Johnson. th scoring the goals," said Irish solely dependent on their With preseason practice ach Berticelli. "Moving the defense. over, the road to perfection II will allow us to find the "We can't be giving silly balls begins tonight against the t." away in the mid-third of the Crusaders. The series between 
l'eamwork will be key for the field," said forward Andrew these two teams dates back to sh in getting the ball to the · Aris. "Once we lose it there, 1977, and the record couldn't 
t. Losing passes in the mid­we've lost a scoring opportuni­be any more perfect for the 
ld and missing feeds in front ty and are instead falling back Irish. Notre Dame has won all to defending." 25 of the meetings, with the 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • ••• • • • • • • • Not that the defense isn't last three games resulting in 
• • prepared. Allowing just 27 Irish shutouts. Playing the per­
•

• 
goals in 21 contests last year, centages, the Irish have also

• 
the Irish will continue to rely posted a 12-7-2 record in sea­• •• • on a powerful defense to son openers.


•

• • anchor the squad. Not wanting to rewrite the 
• Notre Dame Football vs . •• record books or the old adage,
"We always want to rely on• our defense," said coach the Irish will take to Alumni
•

• • Berticelli on the strength of Field expecting nothing less
• this squad. than a season-opening victory . 
•

• Michigan State University • "On the field, everyone's a
• 
With months of practice down . 

• 
defender, it all starts with the the squad now looks to per­• •• • defense." added co-captain fecting its game.



•
• 
•• •• •
• • 
• • Bus Trip 
• 
•
• •
•
• 
•• • Saturday, September 12 •
• Bus leaves: 2:00 p.m. Stepan Center 
•
• 
(Bus leaves Michigan State Stadium 30 minutes
•
•
• following the end of the game)
• 
•
• 
•• 
•
• 
•

• Tickets on sale starting at I 0:00 a.m. on September 3
•
• at the LaFortune Info Desk
• 
•
• 

• • 
• 
IN CONCERT BLESSID UNION 

OF SOULS 

·--­
SATURDAY· SEPTEMBER 12 · 8 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM· SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 


~20 per bus ticket for round trip bus transportation to MSU 
• 
TICKffi ON SALE AT THE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE 
-
IN OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM, OPEN 9 AM-'5 PM, MONDAY-FRIDAY. CREDIT CARD ORDERS BY PHONE:
• 
219/284-4626 
• • 2 tickets per student ID
• 

ADULTTICKffi ALSO AVAILABLE AT ALL iii5<liiJ'~TICKfT CENTERS• INCLUDING ORBIT AND L..S. AYRES. TO CHARGE TICKffi BY PHONE, CALL
• Brought to you by the Student Activities Office 
219/272-7979
• 
To purchase online: 
• 
http://www.ticketmasler.com 


~----------------~--------------------------------------------~-----~---------------~-------------­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, September 1, 1998 
• VOLLEYBALL 





Notre Dame takes on Valpo in season opener 


By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN unranked team. scm, they will be going in blind­Sports Writer The Fighting Irish, ranked ly in terms or scouting. 16th in the AVCA preseason ."We're going to have to go 
The Notre Dame volleyball poll. don't quite know what to into the match focusing on team hopes to get off to a expect in their first match. what we do on our side of the strong start to its season They have not played net, and adapt to Valparaiso tomorrow with a victory over Valparaiso in several years and and make changes during the Valparaiso University, an since it is the start of the sea-match," said head coach 
Debbie Brown. "We want to maintain our composure and not let the first game jitters get a hold of the players too much. One of the things that will help is communication among the team. Communication will be key." 
The starting unit for the net­tors will consist of senior cap­tain Lindsay Treadwell and sophomore Jo Jameyson as middle blockers, junior Mandi Powell and sophomore Christi Girton as outside hitters, sopho­more setter Denise Boylan;and junior Emily Schi(-lbout playing opposite Boylan. These six are likely to play a considerable amount. 
"I think it's important early 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
on to get people match experi­
Sophomore Jo Jameyson will start at the middle blocker position. 

ence if we can do that, but also not to pull people too early so goal the team has against Shamrock Invitational. 
that they don't lose confi­
Valparaiso. "Tomorrow, we want to justdence," said Brown. "We'll be "For the season, we have go out and see what we've been looking for Lindsay to provide made a goal to hit .300 against working on all pre-season and strong leadership because we 
unranked teams this season," get our team together," said 
do have a fairly young team. 
Treadwell said. Scheibout. "It's really just an Denise will need to be consis­
This will be Notre Dame's opportunity to get our team 
tent in her hitting. We're going only ehance for a test run used to competing in match for­to need strong passing and to before hosting 12th-ranked mat against an unrankod team be very active in the hitting as Colorado and a strong Georgia before taking on the ranked well. 
team this weekend in the teams next weekend." 

Treadwell mentioned one 
Garciaparra one homer away from. making history 
Associated Press  innings as Boston won for just  ,for Seattle's run.  of their last two games, 3-1 and  Triple-A Las Vegas on Aug. 23,  
the second time in five games.  2-1 losses.  had a pinch-hit homer, his first  
SEATTLE Nomar Garciaparra moved  Saberhagen, who missed all of the 1996 season and most of  Padres 5, Expos 2  San Diego (89-49) pulled within one game of Atlanta (90­ as a Padre, off Anthony Telford with two out in the sixth to  
closer to joining an exclusive home run list with his 29th homer Monday night as the Boston Red Sox boat the Seattle Mariners 5-1.  last year after shoulder surgery, walked one and struck out four before the Mariners chased him with three singles and a run.in the seventh.  Greg Vaughn hit his 45th homer and Wally Joyner and George Arias also connected as San Diego rediscovered its offense and beat Montreal 5-2  48) for the best record in the NL. Vaughn extended his club sin­gle-season record and career­high when he lined a pitch from  make it 5-2. Joey Hamilton (12-11) won his second straight start, allow­ingtwo runs and five hits in six innings. He struck out live and  
With the homer. Garciaparra  Seattle starter Jeff Passero  Monday night, reducing the  Carl Pavano (4-7) over the left­ walked three.  
is one away from becoming only the fifth player in major league history to hit 30 or more  (10-11) was hurt by his own infield for a pair of hits, which led to Boston's first two runs in  Padres' magic number for clinching the NL West title to 10.  field fence leading ofT the sec­ond to tie the game at 1. Vaughn has homered five times  Trevor Hoffman pitched a perfect ninth for his 44th save. He tied the club record for  
homers in his first two seasons. The other four are Hudy York in 1937-38, Ron Kittle in 1983­84, Jose Canseco 1986-87 and Mark McGwiro in 1987-88. Garciaparra's homer, a 431­ the fourth. After Fassero retired the first nine batters in order, Darren Lewis singled off Alex Rodriguez's glove on a bouncer up the middle. John Valentin  The Padres had lost two straight to the lowly Expos, who are 33 games below .500, and split the four-game series. The Padres had as many home runs Monday as they did hits in each  in his last nine games. Joyner, who missed the last four starts with a strained quadriceps, hit his 11th homer with two out in the fifth, also off Pavano. Arias, recalled from  saves in a season set by Mark Davis in 1989. Vaughn beat out a bases­loaded, two-out single to short­stop in the third to score Chris Gomez and make it 2-1.  

foot shot into the center-field doubled under third baseman seats, gave Boston a 4-0 lead in Russ Davis' glove down the the sixth. third-base line. Mo Vaughn. 
Ken Griffey Jr., who hit a pair walked before Garciaparra's of homers in a win over the sacrifice fly. Passero threw a 
New York Yankees on Sunday. wild pitch ,to allow the second went 2-for-4 and has an AL­run. leading 4 7 homers. Boston added a run in the 
Bret Saberhagen (12-6) eighth on Troy O'Leary's HBI allowed four hits over 6 2-3 single. Davis had an RBI single 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Tennis -Tryouts will be held on Sept. 9 for all interested players. Call Liz Barker at 1~3730Jor more informa~ tion 
Sp or t s 0 f f I c i a I s -HecSports is lookirtg for flag football, fastpitch softball, baseball and soccer officials for the fall inter­hall season. Good pay and flexible hours; Call· DeMond Thomas or JeffWalker at 1-3536 or 1-4437 for more information. 
"~en's Tennis Tryo~t Tourn n • 1~i'~~:~~~~~~£i~~ Eck Tennis. Pavillion. There,~ll 
be. a meeti~g at a:30 p.m. Sept. 10 at Eck. Please contact Mike Morgan atJA84l 6929 with any questiol1fl, jJ?' :,.,,., ~jfb:::· :: Men 's Row i n g ~~··r ormationa I 
meeting for those interested in rowingjs Monday at 
the South Dome ofthe JACC. 
Any questions call .1-3071 •; 
·-~~·==._._. • :·::::n:.::J:::£¥~b¥:':• 
C y c I in g .7AQyon~.interestedjnjoiQing ·should stop by the table a.t Activities Night or · 
Sean Flynn. 1-0912~
•"Y!c!"~C:jf~'ji't· 'iii 

Cuss oF 2000 GOLF SCRAMBLE!! 

1st Prize Color TV 

I 

Other Prizes Include: -2nd Place Team -3rd Place Team 
-Worst Team -Long Drive -Closest to the Pin 
$36 per 4 person team, call Erich or Mike @ 4 x 3546 
Saturday Sept. 19 at Notre Dame 
* one free sleeve of golf balls per entering player, anyone can enter Sponsored by: 
fJR/cEWATERHousF[ooPERS 1 



The Observer • TODAY page 23 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
u 
oro r
"THIS PR.OJTC.T NEEDS Wfl..LLY'S RIGI-\T. : "MISS
'{OUR COMPLETE FORGET THE OT-HER ~ 
PROJ"ECT5 1\NO FOCUS 01\l 11-\A.T ONE.. 
A-TTENTION. 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 33 Research sa Mideast earner facility: Abbr. 60 Tulip plant1ng 
1 Art 1st Chagall 34 Policy position 61 Sans companysWords to live by 35 Gardner of 62 Rhody. 1n an old10 K1nd of l1quor ··show Boat" 
song 14 Coloratura's 36 Supermarket 
63 Concern•ng
p1ece tabloid subject #2 64 More green
15 Un1ts to be subd1v1ded 
40 Coach 65 Lockbox Parseghian document
16 vera 41 Exudes17 Water source 42 ·stati" 
DOWN
10 Financial 43 Romeowherewithal 
1 Gullet 19Storm 
45 Cars that are in 
the shop a lot 2 Geometnc•an·s 20 Supermarket figunng
47 Hate grp.
tabloid subject 3 Brook 48 Donaldson and
#1 
others 4 Hot. in Jal1sco 23 F1fty-fifty 49 Supermarket s ··out,--spot!": 24 Hosp. tabloid subject Lady Macbeth 
procedure #3 6 Continental 25 Like marble 56 Appear ahead divide? 28 Like Charlie 57 II starts with 7 Snag 

Chan Genesis a Darn 9 Not check•ng to make sure ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 1990's Fox sitcom 11 Ja1 28 Playful animal 45 Soap (up) 51 Electric un1t 52 Seat of Allen 


12 Nike's swoosh. 29 Beams 46 Record label 
inits. County. Kanfor one 
30 Renaissance 13 Popular youth Italian poet 48 Classic 1953 
53 Sprout magaz1ne western 54 Collagist's
31 Bordlike 21 Woman1na 49 Isle of exile 
need32 Rerndeer 

herders 50 Reed and 22 Words to live by Costello 59 Inc., abroad
34 Judge, with "up"
25 Goldsmith's 37 Knocks on the
"The---of 
noggin

Wakefield Answers to any three clues in this puzzle
38 Elton John or

26 Start of a new are available by touch-tone phone: a no 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute).
Mick Jagger 

39 Three-time mill1on Masters champ best of Sunday crosswords from the last Americans 44 Like some arms 50 years 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
27 Faith of f1ve Annual subscriptions are available for the 
. Birthday Baby: You are a dedicated little soul. You may have to struggle a btt throughout ltfe, but ot wtll all be Wclrthwhile in the end. You are a bright, loving and practical person all wrapped up in one package. You have what it takes to master whate1·er you set your mind to. Determination and patience will pay off. 
•••• OF INTEREST 
'iii Mens and Women's Track and Field -All students · interested in trying out should attend a meeting on .Sept. 9 a~A p.m. ln the Loftus football auditorium, Please contact the track office at 1-6155 for more 
··.. information. 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 




DEADLINES 
September 3rd 
lnterhall Tennis (M & W)Indoor Lacrosse (M & W) lnterhall Tennis-Mixed DouMen's lnterhall Baseball Grad/Fac/StaH Tennis (M,W,C)Women's IH Fastpitch Softball Campus 16" SoftballGrad/Fac/StaH Baseball Coree Softballlnterhall Football (M & W) Grad/Fac/StaH Bowling
Grad/Fac/StaH Football RecSports OHice • Rolfs Sports Recreation Center • 1-61 00 • htip://www.nd.edu/...recsport 
~vi WHAf A8ovr YotiR ',bUR. £Nf!RE DtN/N4 
I JusT l>e/10LI5HEt> 

l>lNIIICt HALL? HALL, AND 'lotl'R€. IAKttJc; 
ARE yov kJDDINf;? /16 IN fOP. HAVItiG AN 
we'LL SELL 1fi.: l?uBBL£. 
1. CAN GET $/CfJ A Bf?ICI\!
£x:(RA PotluT.' YES! 

BILL AMEND
FOXTROT 
C 1998 Bill Amtndl01s1. by Un•versal Press S~od~e~te

AAAA .1 l'r~ WfAR1NC:. YUillE '(oU"RE AT IT, SAY, iHE SAME SHIRT AS WHAT'S THE CHANCE A~rn 
MoRToN C:.OLDTHWAIT! OF THE EAimi 'THoSE YouR 
WE Lool< lii<E TWtNS.' SWAUOWINC:. ME fooTBALL 
uP RIGHT lliiS BVDDIES
. I 
~ , 

SEcoND? CoMrN<; THIS \ WAY? 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 1, 1998 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Gloria Estefan, Lily Tomlin, Rocky l'vlarciano, Conway Twitty 
Happy Birthday: Your heart is in the right place; however, you must always be careful not to let others take advantage' of your generosity and kindness. Look out for No. I this year and don't b<' afraid to focus on your own ideas rather than helping everyone else get ahead. It's finally time to reach for the stars and follow your own dreams. Your numbers: 3, 9, 13, 22, 28, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You have to be careful if a friend asks you for advice about his or her love life. You may end up losing both the friend and the mate. You can console, but try not to give any direction. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can't lose today, unless, of course, you choose to get involved in gossip or overwork yourself to the point of exhaustion. Minor health problems will flare up if ynu don't take care of yourself. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-june 20): This is your lucky day ii you are in the midst of a financial deal. Real estate, invest­ments, and other money-making opportunities will turn out to be both successful and fruitful. 000 
CANCER (june 21-july 22): Part­nerships will be tense. Don't push your luck. It is best for you to agree for the time being. Any sudden ro­mantic infatuations won't turn into lasting relationships. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You can make career changes that will increase your current income. Don't be afraid to start your own small business on the side. Don't get int1 mately involved with any of you1 clients or colleagues. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You1 ability to do detailed work will dazzk your "tess creative colleagues. You can make new friends and get involved in new hobbies quite successfulll· 
00000 . 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be care­ful. Emotional deception will cause friction on the home front. You can expect sorrow to evolve from any information that you might discover 00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can meet interesting new friends if you join wor:thwhile groups. Secrel affairs will cause upset. Even the best of friends may not be completely hon· est with you. 0000 
SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 2H: You can make career changes that will put you in a much higher earning bracket. Use your own ideas to fur­ther your business interests. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): You are not your usual self today. Sudden changes of heart may causes disruptions in your domestic scene. Travel will be your best outlet. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): De­ception is around you. Be careful how you handle friends and relatives, as they may take things the wrong way. You can make money if you work on personal investments. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sud­den romantic connections may be short-lived. Keep your eyes open and ears alert for any evasive or decepti1•e statements. Don't bother retaliating; just walk away 00 


• Volleyball team gets 
• Notre Dame soccer 

chance to showcase tal­
team set to challenge 

ent in match against 
Valpo in season opener 

Valparaiso






PORTS 
p.22 
p.21 
O THE 

page 24 BSERVER -----------------Tuesday, September 1, 1998 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 

Spartans host second-ranked Irish in home opener 
BY BRIAN KESSLER Assisranr Sporrs Ediror 
The Notre Uame women's soccer team travels to East Lansing tonight to take on Michigan State in their first regular season action of the year. 
There are high hopes for the Irish, who enter the season 

..... 
ranked second in the nation behind powerhouse North Carolina. "A lot of people are expect­ing us to win it all and I think we have a good chance," said Anne Makinen. "But we're tak­ing it one game at a time." -.... The Irish are coming off last week's preseason victory over another Big Ten opponent. the Ohio State Buckeyes, who thlly easily dBfeated 9-0. Both the Buckeyes and Spartans finished th!l s!lason in a tie for seventh with a 3-5 confBrencB r!lcord. but MSU looks to be much improved this season. Michigan State head coach Tom Saxton returns 21 letter­winners, including nine starters, from last season's team that finished 9-10-1 over­
• 
• FooTBAll 
all. 
MSU also returns 10 of their top 11 point producers from a year ago, ineluding sophomore forward Gina Dawson, who led the team with 18 points last season. 
Seniors Beth Merkle and Kim Shepela and junior Laura Monticello (17 points last sea­son) anch.or an experienced 
~ 
vs. 

midfield for the Spartans. Monticello also lead the team with five game-winning goals. 
Sara Kloosterman returns in goal for MSU after starting all 20 games last year as a fresh­man and giving up just under two goals per contest. 
The Michigan State defense is the only real question mark heading into the opening of the season. 

The Spartans must figure out how to replace four-year starter Aimee Cousino. MSU will look to Melissa Janetta, Kristie Hehman, and Amy Abner, along with transfer Ann Cieszkowski to fill the gap she left in the backfield. 
The Irish however are stacked, returning nine starters and four all-Americans. 
In addition, Notre Dame is coming off an impressive showing against OSU. 
"It was a real confidence booster," commented Monica Gerardo, who had two goals in that game. "The game gave us a chance to test things out and see where we are at." 
Apparently, the Irish arc already in mid-season form. Makinen and Jenny Streiffer are coming off hat tricks and LaKeysha Beene registered another shutout for Notre Dame. 
They face their first test tomorrow when they travel to Spartan country to take on 
The ObseJVer/John Daily 
Michigan State. 
Senior Monica Gerardo (9) leads the Irish against the Spartans tonight. 

Linebacker corps to be strength of Irish 'D' 

By ALLISON KRILLA To make plays, of course. Associare Sporrs Ediror When Notre Dame's front seven takes the field for the 
It's a quarterback's job to first time against the Michigan run the offense, a defensive Wolverines on Saturday, the back's job to cover receivers defensive line may be saddled and an offensive lineman's job with question marks. Yet it is to protect the quarterback, but the play-making linebackers what is a linebacker's job? who will be under close scruti­

ny. "Because [the linebackers] 
are the most experienced, 
they're better adjusted" said 
Kirk Doll, drop outside and 
inside linebackers coach. "And 
that means making fewer mis­
takes." While striving for perfection seems like a tall order, the Irish linebackers are definitely pre­pared. Three of the 68 candidates for thn Butkus Award, presented to the nation's top collegiate linebacker, grace the Irish squad ­Bobbie Howard, Kory Minor and Jimmy Friday. 
Seniors Howard, Minor, Friday and back­up Joe Thomas give the Notre Dame defense a wealth of experi­ence. 
Howard, a tri­captain, made his presence felt in 1997, anchoring a deffmse that allowed only 15.1 points per game en route to a 6-1 record in games he played. When the inside line­backer fell victim

The ObseJVer/Kevin Dalum Sophomore Anthony Denman (39) will look to get playing time behind Notre Dame's experienced linebacker crew. 
to an early season knee injury, the Irish allowed 23.4 points per game and compiled a lowly 1-4 mark. 
"It's the guys around me that make me better," said Howard, a silent leader who prefers to let his actions speak for him. 
In just seven games, Howard recorded 91 tackles, a whop­ping 13 tackles per game. 
'Minor, another tri-captain and a four-year starter at out­side linebacker, is recovering from an ankle sprain that kept him out of practice until yes­terday. 
Although Minor is "about 80 percent," the drop backer will accept nothing less than a100 percent effort against the Wolverines. 

"We're ready to roll," said Minor. "We've prepared well and stayed together. We have to concentrate on not making mistakes." 
One of four defensive Jllayers to start all 13 games in 1997, Minor recorded 85 tackles and led the team with 3 1/2 sacks. 
Jimmy Friday, a steady per­former for the Irish in 1997, is probably the least known of the talented trio. However, the inside linebacker did lead the team in tackles (109) while 
see BACKERS I page 18 
Cross Country 

vs Michigan 4$% vs Valparaiso 
vs Loyola, Purdue, Buder 
September 5, 2:30 p.m. ·~ :i!Jirr Today, 7:30p.m.

SPORTS 

September 12, II a.m. 
ATA 
Soccer 

at Michigan State ~t Valparaiso 
vs Illinois Wesleyan 
Today, 4 p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 
Tomorrow, 4:30p.m.
GLANCE 




