
• How do students of other faiths feel about 
• The Office of Information Technology has begun 
Thursday
the Catholic focus of Notre Dame? Scene 
using a new type of media known as webcasting to 

examines the issue. 
broadcast live events through an Internet site. · 

OCTOBERS, 
Scene· 14-15 
News·3 

1998 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 34 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 


ND students rally to voice support for change 
Crowd advocates inclusion ofsexual orientation in non-discrimination clause 
By TIM LOGAN 
A...sil\1,\111 Nl'w~ Pditor 
ApproximatPly ;wo pPoplP turrwd out Wednesday· at J.'ic•ldhousf' Mall to rally in support of' adding of' sc•xtwl oriPntation to thf' Uniwrsity's lc~gal non-dis­rrimination rlausn. 
NParly 20 students and !'acuity mc•mbnrs spoke~. urging passagP of' tlw amc•JHimnnt which will be dPhatc~d by the Acadnmir. Counc:il this af'tnrnoon. Spnaknrs rritirizPd tlw University's r.urrnnt stance on homosexuality f'rom a numlwr of angles, includ­ing tlw indf'nrtivcHwss of' tlw Spirit of' Inclusion slatc~mnnt and tlw r.urnmt policy's laek of' basie Pquality f'or all studnnts. 
"I ran think of' no good reason why this change should not lw mad11," said sophomorP Madolyn Orr, who notr~d that some other Catholic universities ­including San Franciseo University and {;norgPtown -include SPXUal orientation in thPir nondiscrimination clauses. 
"On Thursday, I expert rhange," she said. 
Orr joinnd other spnakers in disputing the notion that thn Univnrsity should not changn the elause lwcausP it would beeomP more vulnerabl~J to frivo­lous lawsuits. Sueh legal action, and the legal nalun~ of the non-discrimination clause, has been rHil' n~ason why the change has boon opposed. 

The Observer/Peter Richardson 
"The more we turn out and say this is wrong ... the more likely [it is that] Notre Dame will change the non-discrimination 
see RALLY I page 4 clause," said associate professor of history Gail Bederman at yesterday's rally. 

Puljic receives ND award for service 
By FINN PRESSLY Cardinal l'uljic, speaking through an ued. Nt·w,Writl'r interpretnr. Puljic also addressed the mascot of In 11)92, the same year the Notre the University, the Fighting Irish. 
Tlw University conf'Prrml cmn of' its Dame award was established, Bosnia­"I am intrigued because, in the nick­highest awards, tlw Notrn Damn Herzegovina declared its indepen­name, an ethnic group -the Irish ­Award f'or international humanitarian dnncn; thn ensuing war led to the is assoeiated with fighting," he said. sPrvicP, on Archbishop of Sarajevo f'orty-two month siege of Sarajevo. The "Presumably the fighting refers to the Vinko Cardinal l'uljie Wechwsday. ethnic cleansing that ensued had drw­sprit of athletic competition against 
"This is an nxpression of admiration astating e!Teets on the Catholic chureh other universities. or course, in my and gratitudn f'rom tlw Notrn Damn in Bosnia. country, ethnic groups are also associ­community for t.hn couragn of Bosnia's Tlw award cnremony coincided with ated with fighting, but this has much nwn and wonwn of' faith," said thn Catholic f'ease of the Holy Hosary, different meaning. Univnrsity l'rnsidnnt Fatlwr Edward and Puljic explained that the people of "The fighting has been so deadly and Malloy in his opnning so serious that we may addrnss. "You prnac:h as never be able to call our your prr~dnrnssor l'aul did, sports teams the that c;od madn us of one 
'Fighting Croats' or the
'THE FIGHTING HAS BEEN so hlood, all nations of the 'Fighting Bos niaks, "' 
DEADLY AND SO SERIOUS THAT WE
l'arth." Puljic continued. l'uljir was appointnd MAY NEVER BE ABLE TO CALL OUR "Tonight, I invite the Archbishop of Sarajnvo in Fighting Irish of Notre
SPORTS TEAMS THE "FIGHTING
I1J1J I . and in I 1) <J 4 h n Dame to renew your l)('ranw tlw youngest cardi­CROATS" OR THE "FIGHTING commitment in the ongo­nal in t.hn Catholic Church. ing fight for peace and
80SNIAKS." ' 
During lhn recnnt civil war justice in the world." in tlw fornwr Yugoslavia, hn Puljic also discussed madn frnqunnt appnals to VINKO CARIJINAL PULJ!C the impact of globaliza­tlw intnrnational community Auutmstmt• oF SMIA.IIiVO, 1998 NomE DAME !IW!Itlll RH.11'tHNT ti on on dipI o rn acy in for "dncisivn and crndibln areas of the world most artion" to nnd tlw violnnrc prone to conlliet. in his honwland. Sarajevo have become all too familiar "Globalization may enhance the cre­
Hnrl'nt.ly, l'uljic mnt with tlw leadnrs with the "sorrowful mysteries." ation of new business partnerships, it of' Bosnia's Muslim. Jewish and "At the time of the war, the may give greater access to information Serbian Orthodox eommunitins, and Archdiocese of Sarajevo had 520,000 and the material things of this world, nstablislwd the lntnr-lkligious Council. Catholies in 144 parishes," Puljie said. but it does not automatically result in whieh is moving towards its goal of "Now the number is around 200,000, the formation of committed neigh­"practical programs of coopnration." but many of them no longer live in bors." 
"I am honornd and dnnply moved to their own houses." The ceremony took place in the 
rnrnivn tho I<J<JS Notre Dame /\ward "Economic explotation of poor peo­Hesburgh Center auditorium, and fea­f'or intnrnational humanitarian service, ple, a greedy quest for land, a hate­tured a selections of hymns sung by nspm:ially wlwn I consider the scope of filled nationalism -these are just a the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir, thn good work represented and the few examples of the unjust motives which concluded the ceremony with staturH of prnvious winners," said that lead nations to war," he contin-"the Prayer of St. Francis." 
SMC screens 
students for 


depresssion 
ByJESSICA DELGADO News Writer 
If schoolwork, gray weather or personal matters seem to be getting you down more than usual. the Saint Mary's Collnge Counseling and Career Development Center may be able to help. 
The Center will hold presentations and screenings today in honor of National Depression Screening Day. Free depres­sion screenings will be available in LeMans Lobby from 10 to 11:30 a.rn. 
At 12:10 p.m. Mary DePauw, director of Counseling and Career Development and assistant pt·ofessor of Psychology. will begin her presentation entitled. "Learn about Depression: Ilow we ean rC:'cognize and respond to dopression in uurst1lves and others." 
Following the presentation, screenings will again be available in Haggar Parlor frorn 1:30-3 p.m. The sc:rnnning pror:eduro consists of filling out a questionnaire and reviewing the responses with a trained pro!'essional. 
"We would like to let the students know that if something is bugging you. you don't have to go through it alone," said DePauw. 
The concept of screening for a mental illness was initiated by National Depression Screening Dn:y in 1991. Developed by Douglas Jaeobs, a Harvard psychiatrist, this day is held eaeh year 
see SCREENING I page 4 

i,I, 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Cotnprotnising Pride 
Last night, the senior class of Saint Mar1 s 
College "proudly presented" a date auction­
ironically. one day after the campus celebrat­
ed the history, education and empowerment 
of Saint Mary's women. 
In the Le Mans Hall M. Shannon Ryan 
lobby, men paraded Saint Mary's Editor 
about like partially & 
clothed Chippendales, Colleen McCarthy 
complete with lap Saint Mary's News Editor 
dances, stripping and 
throngs of screaming 
women ready to hand over their cash. 
Notre Dame's "finest bachelors," as they 
were publicized, were more than ready to be 
auctioned off like two-ton heifers at a state 
fair. 
Meanwhile, the 100-plus women who 
crowded into the lobby were raising their 
hands and bidding as if Jackie O.'s pearls 
were going for $1.50. 
Now that you have this vivid picture of the 
evening, you might be asking yourself why 
wouldn't two campuses with such dysfunc­
tional gender relations gladly promote and 
participate in such an event? 
Maybe we can shed some light on why they 
shouldn't. 
As a women's college, where women 
should be perpetuating women, we should 
be protesting events like this rather than 
hosting them. Already, Saint Mary's women 
face stereotypes of what we are supposedly 
like. Why would we go out of our way to 
sponsor an event that only strengthens and 
creates more false images of the Saint Mary's 
student? 
What is especially disheartening about the 
large turn-out for the date auction is that this 
amount of students rarely appears in Angela 
Athletic Facility to cheer for our own sports 
teams. 
e 
But there we were, paying for Notre 
Dame's male athletes to take us out for pizza. 
We would like to see that many Saint 
Mary's women gathered together for a meet­
ing of the Feminist Collective or for volunteer 
services. 
After experiencing Saint Mary's for almost 
four years, one would think the officers of the 
senior class could attempt a fundraising 
activity that would not encourage women to 
put themselves in the inferior and degrading 
position of buying another human being. 
We don't know how much $365 is worth to 
you, but last week, at another Saint Mary's 
date auction, it was worth a few hours with 
one "hot male celebrity." Last night, one 
woman bought a two-for-one, $265 deal. 
So how do these men feel being reduced to 
a 180-pound slab of meat? This is an inter­
esting sexual double standard. 
If women were up on the auction block and 
strutting their stuff on a runway, we would 
be outraged (at least we hope people would 
be). We would probably talk about how the 
women were suffering from low self-esteem 
and how unfortunate it was that they needed 
to reaflirm their self-worth by participating 
in an auction. 
We laugh it off when women exploit them­
selves by purchasing this testosterone and we 
joke about how male egos skyrocket with 
each increased bid. 
We need to ask ourselves whether we are a 
women's college in name only or do we truly 
believe in what Saint Mary's Pride Day stands 
for? 
Last night. it seemed like we all lost a little 
dignity. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•Tm:uw's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Loubel Cruz  
Christine Kraly  Graphics  
Maggy Tinucci  Cristin Manary  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  Anthony Bianco  
Viewpoint  Tim Logan  
Spencer Stefko  Lab Tech  
Meg Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe As..,ociared Pres~. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 

Thursday, October 8, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Administration focuses agenda on increasing diversity 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
For the next two decades, the administration will be held accountable for whatever strides or lapses IU makes toward diversity. 
A report released last week recommends reconfiguring how the university promotes diver­sity. Among the changes are the removal of advocacy deans, creation of a vice chancellor and the accountability of key IU administrators 
L___________j 
for the success of the new structure. 
For vice chancellor of academic affairs Edwardo Rhodes, the culpability of administrators for the role diversity plays at IU is the report's most important aspect. 
Improving a racial climate the report calls "chilly at best" will fall under the responsibility of the administration. "If you have a consistent problem with teaching or research, you're held accountable, and that's what we're talking about here," Rhodes said. 
The report, "20/20: A Vision for Achieving Equity and Excellence," was written by Charlie Nelms, special assis­tant to the president, and a six-member investigative com­mittee. It states that the creation of the new vice chancellor position will improve rapport among students. After receiv­ing feedback, Nelms will release a more detailed plan in December. 
• RADCLiffE UNIVERSITY 
President to be Internet spokesperson 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
In a proposal submitted Friday, Radcliffe President Linda Wilson was named one of nine people who may become the sole governing body of the Internet. If accept­ed by the U.S. Department of Commerce, the proposal would give the board power over assigning Internet domain names, such as www.harvard.edu, to the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers [ICANN). of which Wilson would be a member. The House Technology Subcommittee held hearings yesterday, and the Commerce Department is allowing 10 days for public comment before evaluating a number of private-sector proposals. Critics have alleged the board would have too much power and that guidelines for selecting board mem­bers are inadequate. The Commerce. Department announced its intention to turn administration of domain names over to a not-for-profit corporation in 1une. 
• SrANfmHJ UNIVERSiTY 
University reforms financial aid policy 
STANFORD, Calif. 
By the time of her high school graduation, freshman Vlada Teper knew she was Stanford-bound. "The only big question was how I was going to pay for it." Luckily for Teper, the university's recent changes in financial aid, allowing stu­dents to use the full value of outside scholarships to reduce loans, meant that the awards she won at graduation could follow her in their entirety to the Farm. "I worked very hard in high school and was pleasantly surprised to win a few awards at the end of my senior year. Without a doubt, these grants have really made a difference in my first year in col­lege," said Teper. The university also lessened the amount of home equity that is factored into a family's assets for financial aid calculations. Both Columbia University and Williams College have followed Stanford's lead, allowing students to keep their university aid and use scholarships to reduce their need for work-study commitments. 
to Gros Louis, as do the other vice chancellors. Under the umbrella of the new vice chancellor, three associate vice chancellor positions would be created: vice chancellor and director of the Honors Division, associate vice chancellor of multicultural affairs and an associate vice chancellor of academic support services. 
"They are going to be people who reflect the constituen­cies they serve," Gros Louis said. "In other words, they are not going to be three white males." 
The Office of Women's Affairs and Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Transgendered Student Support Services were not included in the plan. Also, the report does not mention the Office of Diversity Programs, which is headed by Steve Birdine. Birdine, who is suing the University for racial dis­crimination, supports changing IU's diversity structure. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA President defends Nike contract 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
While some students may think UA President Peter Likins neglected workers' rights when he signed a contract with Nike, the top U.S. labor official would disagree. "He !Likins) has been dedicated and committed" to working with the apparel industry to ensure stricter labor standards arc enforced, Secretary of Labor Alexis IIerman said Tuesday. Herman invited Likins to Washington, D.C., to moderate a forum on code-of-conduct dauses in university contracts with athletic apparel companies. The forum, held Tuesday at the Smithsonian National Museum of American History, marked the first time all parties involved with the college trademark industry -students, college officials, manufacturers and retailers-have gathered in one place to focus on labor stan­dards, Herman said. Labor department ollidal Carl Filliehio said 50 universities sent representatives to the forum. Likins called it "a rather couragPous and innovative thing." 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUtORNIA -BERKHEV 
Number of community transfers rises 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
UC officials announced Tuesday that the n urn ber of underrepresented students transferring from community colleges into the UC system's math, science and engineering programs has sharply increased because of a statewide recruitment program. Of the 613 students that have trans­ferred from community colleges to four-year colleges, 89 percent were participants in the Mathematics, Engineering, Sciences Achievement Community College Program. In the 1996-97 school year, 90 students entering UC schools through the MESA program, a stark contrast to the 28 stu­dents in the program in the 1992-93 academic year. The growing figures reflect the progression and consolidation of the program, said Teri Lee, a spokesperson for MESA. The program was founded to provide advice and a learning eom­munity for disadvantaged community college students whiln promoting interest in math, engineering and the sciences. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl V\!EATHEB 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditim;s and high temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday  ~ 65 58 ~ 61 55 ~ 65 56 ~ 62 58 63 57~  

9,9,~98Q(f~u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoctated Press Graph!CsNet 
When the plan is implemented, Rhodes' posi­tion will be elevated to the vice chancellor for academic support and diversity. But Rhodes will not pursue the job, as he plans to return to teaching after July 1, 1999. 
Kenneth Gros Louis, IU vice president and Bloomington chancellor, said the university plans a nationwide search to fill the position but would not rule out someone already at IU. 
The new administrator would report directly 

VIS ASSOC/8/&d Press  
Aspen  68  24  
Boise  66  38  
Boston  68  56  
Chicago  62  43  
Cleveland  61  46  


Fargo 69 Hartford 66 Helena 62 Malibu 76 Miami 89 47 Mobile 80 59 55 New York 69 57 35 Phoenix 96 68 61 Richmond 74 62 78 Seattle 58 48 
---~---------------------~~-~-~~-----~------~~---­
Thursday, October 8, 1998 ______T_h__::_e Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• TECHNOLOGY BEAT 
Culture on the Quad 

ND gets 'webcast' capability 
By ANNE MARIE Langthornn, associate direc­limited, he said. MATTINGLY tor of Educational Media. "Just like any copyrighted Dnspitn the success of early material, it depends on lis­broadcasts, the system is far censing," he Winding said. 
Studnnts spnnding thn from achi1wing its full poten­Langthorne speculated that snnwstnr in London watelwd tial. campus groups may want to Saturday's Stanl'ord gamn "What wn're n1ally testing buy webcast time to broadcast liVI\ thanks to a rww typn of' out is the pipes," said various events. nwdia providnd by tlw OITiee Langthorne, who explained "Wn'll be working out a way of Information Tnchrrologies. that the Sen. Bradley's to market this to the campus," 
Wnhcasting. whi<:h is also lncutrns have taknn plaen in he said. "II' someone at Notre us1HI by CNN. snrHls a digital diiTernnt buildings to test tlw Dame wanted to webcast, we pirlurn signal through an ability to sond signals from would determine the cost per lnlnrrrnl corrrwrlion to ('.Om­various locations. minut11 and they. would have putnrs. Tlw vidno is played "Hight now we'rn in the to provo they had the rights." using spn('.ial sol'lwarP on a IHtrly stagn of just live broad­Anyone connected to the SITPPn which is approximately east," Winding coneurrnd. University would be able to two indws square. llownver. both believe the use the non-profit service to 
"This is a tPchnology that technology has many possible broadcast "just about any­SIHHIS vidPO OVPr a linn lo a applications. thing that you could think of' eompulPr that has a video "In the pretty short term that happens at ND," said playPr on il." said Bob future ... it's likely to have Langthorne, who noted that Winding, senior nntwork ana­more impact because of the the system is economical lyst at orr. ability to broadcast a whole because of its large audience. 
Webeasts so far have vari11ty of things into Hesnet," Webcast viewing software included last yPar's baeealau­he said. "II think! all gradua­can bfl downloaded from rnatn mass, eommPnePmnnt tions and HOTC commission­http://www.nd.edul-webcast, cnremony and HOTC eommis­i ngs arc going to be broadcast and students can view web­sioning, as well as l111~ Bill from now on ... There's been casts live from this site by B r ad I!~ y I n e t u r e s P r i c s , a lot of in tcrest generated." providing an afs ID and pass­arrording to Michael But broadcasting rights are word when prompted. 
By JESSICA LOGAN Coordinator. News Writer The Hun. whieh begins at II am, oll'ers a three and a six mile 
October is Breast Cancer run. as well as a two-mile walk. Awareness Month, and this All three events start and finish Saturday the annual Domer Hun at Stepan Center and will be will once again help raise immediately followed by a pan­money to fund research. cake breakfast. 
For the second year in a row, The races are divided into the proceeds of the Domer Run twelve divisions, and the first will be donated to the Catherine place winner of each division Peachey Foundation, Inc. for will be awarded a trophy. Breast Cancer Research. The Numerous groups have pro­foundation provides funds to vided their services to help coor­researchers involved in the dinate this yearOs Domer Run, study of breast cancer. including HecSports, the 
While last year's run attracted IRISIIealth Hesouree Center and over 300 participants, coordina­the Alumni Association. First tors are hoping for an even larg­USA Bank has donated T -shirts er turn out this year. whieh will be given to all finish­
"We would like to increase the ers. numbers from last year...and The registration fne is $5 still have a good race," said before 5 p.m. on Friday and $6 Kara O'Leary, RecServices on the morning of the raee. 


Looking for a Part-Time Job? 
We are hiring for the following positions: 
• 
Assistant Retail Manager, BACK OF THE NET SPORTS (25-35 hrs.) 

• 
Retail Customer Service, BAcK OF THE NET SPORTS (10-20 hrs.) 

• 
Soccer Instructors. SoccERZONE 

• 
Maintenance, SOCCERZONE 


• 
Office Receptionist, SoccERZONE 

• 
Concession Workers, SoccERZoNE 

• 
Soccer Referees, SoccERZONE Send your resume or stop by to fill out an application at: 



~ liH 
1435 University Drive • Granger (East of University Park Mall) 219-243-5777 • FAX: 219-243-5778 

2:00pm, Sunaay, OcrokeK 11, 1998 AnnenbeKc; Au3lTomum 
r---------------------·------~----------------------------------------·------------------------------~----------------­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Rally 
continued from page 1 
"Is it more important to pro­tect oneself from a lawsuit than to do what is right?" asked Jay Smith of the College Democrats. "The bottom line is very simple ... It is a moral imperative that this university extend support to everyone." 
Participants in the rally dis­agreed with those who have expressed a belief that people would sue if they were not admitted or hired by Notre Dame. 
"They obviously think that we just want to sue the University," said junior Quincy Starnes. "That's not right. We just want to be free from dis­crimination on this campus." 
Another topic brought up at the event was the Spirit of Inclusion statement, which was adopted in August 1997 ­the last time University admin­istrators considered adding sexual orientation to the non­discrimina­tion clause. 
threatens homosexual· Domers," said Alyssa Hellrung, co-presi­dent of Outreach ND, the group formerly known as GLND/SMC. "It didn't work, or else Father Garrick wouldn't have resigned." 
Lisa Karle, a Library assistant at Saint Mary's, noted that the Spirit of Inclusion had not been communicated to alumni in any way. She stated that it has not been printed in Notre Dame Magazine or been distributed at reunions since being published in The Observer and du Lac last fall. 
"To say there is [a spirit of inclusion] and not tell anyone seems a bit hypocritical to me," said Karle. 
Ultimately, many of those who addressed the crowd focused on the need to create awareness and change opinion among the student body, and for the administration to respond to that opinion. 
"I think most students are still hesitant ... wondering whether they dare challenge the homo­phobia in our community," said A a r o n Kreider of 
t h e ment calls for Progressive 
The state­
'TosAY THERE 1s A Student
members of the Notre [SPIRIT OF INCLUSION] Alliance. He Dame com­
called those

AND NOT TELL ANYONE SEEMS
munity to present to 
"welcome all A BIT HYPOCRITICAL TO ME.' join in a people, "new civil regardless of 
rights fight," 

color, gender LISA KARLE to make the ... (and] sexu-LIBRARY ASSISTANT, SAINT MARY's COLLEGE student voice 
al orienta­tion." 
"I was surprised at the University publishing this very moving statement and then not being willing to back it up in any way," said Janet Kourany, adjunct associate professor of philosophy. 
Father David Garrick, a for­mer professor in the then­Communication and Theatre department, resigned last March in protest of the University's policy with regard to gays and lesbians. Garrick is openly homosexual, and some speakers pointed to his resigna­tion as evidence that the Spirit of Inclusion has thus far failed to change the atmosphere on campus. 
"[The inclusion statement] was a feeble attempt by the administration to end the fear and discrimination that still 
heard on issues such as this. 
"When it comes down to it, it's got to be the students who treat [everyone] equally, with equal rights and responsibili­ties," said sophomore Casey McCluskey. 
Father Garrick, Bishop Thomas Gumbleton -the auxil­iary bishop of Detroit -student body president Peter Cesaro and TV talkshow pioneer Phil Donahue, a 1957 alumnus, all sent letters of support which were read at the rally. 
The rally was sponsored by the PSA, and organizers felt the event was successful. 
A petition calling on the Academic Council to support the measure was distributed at the rally. According to the PSA, 1,162 have signed the petition over the past two weeks. 

jPiease recycle.j 
Saint Mary's College and the Lilly Fellows Annual Conference present 
Music, the Creative Process and the Path of Enlightenment 

A Lecture/Performance by 
Pianist Lorin Hollander 
Friday, October 9, 1998 at 8 p.m. Moreau Center • O'Laughlin Auditorium 
This event is free and open to the public. For further invormation call (219) 284-4626. 
MofifiiJ 
THE ARTS NOTRE DAME, IN 


Scr·eening 
continued from page 1 
during Mental Illness Awareness Week. 
"Women usually encounter their first experience with depression between the ages of 17-22 years old," De Pauw said. However, the incidence of depression is higher in men than in women. 
The imtent of the screening is to educate people about depression by teaching them to identify ~;ymptoms of a depres­sive and to help others who are struggling with it. 
"Depression syndrome is feel­ing bad. empty and discour­aged," said De Pauw. "It affects your appetite by eating too much or too little, your sleep pattern, energy level, it impairs your judgment and decision making. You can't concentrate or remember things and it per­sists for two weeks. 
"If you know someone that has these symptoms, they may be a manic or bi-polar depres­sive," explained DePauw. 
"Whether it's depression symptoms or depression syn­drome, we can help," said DePauw. "Depression in all forms isn't something people have to suffer with. There are many options for people to use to return themselves to a state of health and happiness. No better time than college to learn what those are." 
The different climates and geographic locations of various students can also affect mental health state. Seasonal Affective Disorder occurs when a person comes from a sunlit environ­ment and then lives in a state that does not have as much sunlight as they are used to. The symptoms of depression will be the same and should be treated with the same respect. People often use sun lamps and sit in the window to do home­work to try to avoid this sea­sonal disorder. 
Thursday, October 8, 1998 

There are times in life when you are asked to make choices you don't like. Your career shouldn't be one of those. 
Working at CIGNA is different. We don't try to force you into a 
job that doesn't fit your abilities. What we do is find rewarding, 
challenging and (yes) fun opportunities for tomorrow's business 
leaders. Ones that take the kind of talent and hard work you've 
already shown in earning your degree. 

~That's not all. We're also just as interested in your personal fulfillment. Which is probably why we have made ahabit of showing up on alot of "best places to 
work" lists from Fortune to Working Mother. 
CIGNA is adiversified financial services company with 
approximately 50,000 employees world-wide and $111 billion is assets. Beyond those numbers, we strive every day to live up to our reputation as aBusiness of Caring. 
One CIGNA: Many Opportzmities. 
We're on equol opportunity employer. M/F /D/V. "CIGNA" refers to CIGNA Corporation ond/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most employees ore employed by subsidiaries of CIGNA Corporation, which provide insurance ond related products. 
www.cigna.com 
CIGNA 
A Business ofCaring. 



Thur~day. October 8, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• ~IUS • RUSSIA Drugs sold in City Hall 
<;ABY. Ind. 
ThP city's chid" computf'r programnwr and a payroll d!'rk W!'rP an~usl'd ynstPrday ol' .run­ning a ctwairw ring that madl' drug dnals out of City llall. TIH• two madl' dtHtls on city phonf's and dl'livPrf'd drugs on Llwir lunch lu·t·aks. 1111' FBI said. "Tiw l'llf'rny is not from withoul. Tilt• I'Ill'IllY is !'rom within." said Scott 1-.:ing. mayor ol' this struggling city ol' I 17,000. Tlw programnwr. Arthur L. llarris. and his girlfril'rHI, payroll ciPrk Kan~n Laverne ShiVPrs. Wf'n' arn~stPd Monday. Agents f(nmd about $h,OOO in rash. six ouncns ol' crark. five ouncf's ol' powdPrPd corainn and drug para· plwrnalia in tlwir two apartrnnnts. According lo ("f)Urt papns, agnnts L<qwd a phorw conver­sation in whil"h llarris hoastnd that lw was sPiling morf' than $1.000 worth of cocaine a day. Tlw mayor downplayPd thf' goVPrnnmnt conrH•ction in a city plagw•d for ynars by vio­ll'llt crinll'. drugs and doublf'·digit urwmploy· 1111'111. 
Anti-porn bill passes House 
WASII!NCTON 
Ht•jf'cl!'d by 1111' courts in an ParliPr pf'J'ort to rPslrict lntl'rrll't pornography. tlw llousl' vot!'d yt•stl'rday to rPquirf' !'ornpaniPs to vnri(y an adult's agl' lwforn showing online mat11rial "hannful to minors." "Tiwre arn literally thou· sands of sil!~s dnvotPd to !WPry mannPr ol' per· V!'rsion and brutality," said Hnp. Michael 0 xI" y. H · 0 hi o. t lw biII's sponsor. "llnfortunatdy, the WdJ is awash in degrading smut. lncludPd within the bill. passnd on a AssociATED PRESs Many Russians eschew thing to do with themselves." to destroy us," national voir!' votP. was a far loss controversial propos­politics for reasons ranging The protests, organized by trade union leader Mikhail al to n~quirP companies on the Internet to MOSCOW from apathy after decades of trade unions and the power­Shmakov said in Moscow. obtain pan'lltal consnnt bnfon~ collecting per· Empty pockets and anger Soviet authoritarianism to a ful Communist Party, "We want a presid1mt who sonal information !'rom rhildrPn on tlw Web. over .the failure of Boris traditional Russian fatalism appeared to create little solves the concrete problnms Tlw anti-porn IPgislation requirns companies Yeltsin's government to end that people have to make the momentum for serious of the country and doesn't to wril'y a custonwr is ovnr 16 by asking for a years of economic malaise best of things. Others change in the world's largest make empty promises." crndit-wrd nurnhnr, adult access code or "any drove hundr·eds of thou­shunned the protests country. "Look at the hole the otlwr rnasonabll' mnasurns" bPforo showing sands of Russians to nation­because of fear of violence "These sorts of protests Hussian people have fallen "harmful" matnrial. Violators would facn fines wideprotests yesterday. or their association with the are not the road to revolu­into. Look at the people on up lo $SO.OOO and up to six months in prison. Disillusionment and prag­Communists, who have the tion," said Sergei Tuchin, 49. their knens," Marina 
matism kept many more support of about 20 pt\rcent an unemployed writer in Hubintsina. a l 9-year-oldAIDS deaths decrease away. of the population. Moscow who did not take student. told demonstrators Miners. monarchists, stu­"We've got to work, to part. in the eastern port of WASI! INGTON dents and business people make money. I don't have While the demonstrations Vladivostok. "We don't havn 
Tlw nurnlwr of Arnnrieans dying of AIDS fell took to the streets from time for this," said Natasha were spurred by the latest a future." a dramatic 47 pnrcm1l last year as powt~rful­Moscow to Vladivostok in the Krasikova, a sales clerk in crisis, which has seen the They forecasted that as rww drugs kl'pt the disnaso at bay for thou­first major public protest the GUM department store ruble plummet, the markets many as 40 million of sands of patiPnts. It's tho sneond straight year since an economic crisis hit adjacent to Red Square, collapse and inflation soar, Hussia's 148 million peopln that AIDS d!'alhs havn dropped, this time in August, but the peaceful where tens of thousands of most marchers were would take part, while the rwarly twico as fast as in I996 and mwugh to demonstrations fell far short Muscovites rallied. protesting over months. government said just push tlw disPasP out of tlw top 10 causes of of organizers' predictions "The only people who go sometimes years, of unpaid 615,000 pnople showed up dPalh in Lhis rountry for till' first limn sincn lhny would be thn biggest to thesn protests are the salaries and pensions. in demonstrations in 494 I1l1JO. tlw goV!'rnmont said ynstnrday. Still. last anti-Yeltsin protest ever. ones who don't havn any-"We will not allow Yeltsin cities. yPar also saw sonw 40,000 1ww inf'm~tions. a numlwr that isn't dropping, mnaning more • YUGOSLAVIA pPoplP an· living with and polontially spread­ing AIDS and tlw virus that rausns it. And doc­tors worry tlw wondor-drug combinations that 


Serb people prepare for attacks 
haw IHwn so suc1:essful will eventually stop working. 
A'iSOCIATED PRESS condition of anonymity, described the Ignoring official appeals, Yugoslavs meetings as "extremely serious and went on panic shopping sprees, caus­BELGRADE· sober" and said that Holbrooke had ing shortages of flour. sugar and 
As a U.S. envoy left in silenco after· tried to learn what steps Milosevie other staples. Plane tickets for three days of talks, a defiant President was prepared to take to end the crisis. Western destinations have boen Sloboda Milosevic denounced Western He said Holbrooke did succeed in book(ld for a while, as those who pressure to end his violent crackdown negotiating safe passage for Selman could afford it prepared to flee the in Kosovo province. His government Marina. the sole survivor of a mas­country. prepared people for possible NATO sacre last week in which 13 other eth­Detailed maps showing locations of airstrikes, sweeping out World War II· nic Albanian males were allegedly 46 main Belgrade underground shel­era bomb shelters. shot and killed by Serb police at point­ters were published in newspapers, 
Following Milosevic's last meeting blank range. including instructions on "what to do with U.S. envoy Richard Holbrooke, Morina, who was wounded in the in case of an attack." 
Composite

-1.29 the president's office said "attempts leg, left the country Wednesday with "At first, l never thought they would 
Volume:

-1.29 845.600,000 wore made to overcome tho differ­10 family members and will be inter­bomb us. This is Europe after all. But ences." viewed by U.N. war crimes investiga­now I'm starting to panic," said
MOST TRADED STOCKS 
The Yugoslav statement also said tors in The Hague, the official said. Emilija Kacanac, a 22-year-old uni­nndl·~t:~~x IU ltH "II I II ~:Sf..ll I 'i~lt:ll I,Hirt threats of NATO alrstrikes "jeopardize -The government of Serbia, the main versity student, as her hands trem­
IH.LI. COMI'll'l ~-R llt.U. -K.~IJ -ol.J:CiCKJ ~0.5c62~ 
t ISLO SVS n.M\ csco -5.01 -2..H25 -U.H75 the continuation of the political republic of Yugoslavia, announced a bled. • 
MIC'ltOSOrl' t:Oltl' MSFf -.t59 -.\.500 94.125 
INTH COR I' INTC -0.71 -0.5625 79.0625 process." series of measures Wednesday bring­Most of the Belgrade bomb shelters 
U)MI'Afl f'()MJ'UTf.J! Cl'tl -5.90 -].,')62$ 24.9]7$ 
COCA-COI.A I·.NT!It cu=. +.i.HZ + L0l!25 2H.H75 U.S. officials refused comment on ing the country nearer to war footing. were filled with garbage, and some 
VAIIOO INC VIIOO -H ..i6 -10.4.175 114..175 
WASTf. MA~,\(tfMF.Nr WMI ·17.35 ·K.IH75 .19.00 the talks, and Holbrooke left for It ordered government departments to have been turned into discos and 
IRtWFI.t:K~ <I ROlli' TRV -7.97 -2.7500 .\1.75 <:11,\NCI"l.I.OR Mf.PIA AMFM ·H.I5 -2.1250 2.1.9:!75 Brussels, Belgium, to meet Secretary increase security and threatened pun­cafes. It was estimated that only one­of State Madeleine Albright today. ishment for those who spread "fear, third of Belgrade's 2 million people One senior U.S. official, speaking on panic and defeatism." could pack into the existing ones. 




Thursday, October 8, 1998
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 

Oktoberfest Run/Walk raises money for SMC 
Observer Staff Report 
The 17th annual Oktoberfest Run/Walk will take place today at 5:15 p.m. at Saint Mary's College. 
Students, faculty, and staff will participate in either a one­and-a-half mile walk or a three-mile run. Both races begin and end in front of Angela Athletic Facility. The $5 entry fee will be used to pur­chase new equipment for Saint Mary's intramural programs. 
"We want all Saint Mary's students, faculty, and staff to get out and participate," said Jini Cook, Assistant Director of Athletics. "We are hoping for a good turnout." 
The top finishers in each event will receive two $10 gift certificates to T.G.I. Friday's, and the first 40 finishers of each respective event will receive a long-sleeved t-shirt. All finishers are eligible for raf­fle prizes, such as CDs, books, and savings bonds, which have been donated by establish­ments in the community. 
The Run/Walk will also incor­porate a group competition which any recognized group on may enter. and the group with the most finishers will receive a pizza party. 
• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Members need more .... computer resources 
By ROBERT PAZORNIK 
News Writer 
The Graduate Student Union voiced its concern about the computer access needs of grad­uate students at its meeting Tuesday night. 
The University Village, which houses the greater part of Notre Dame's married gradu· ate population, still lags behind the rest of campus in that it does not have ResNet access, which is available to the rest of Notre Dame's students. 
"Getting ResNet connections to the Village is something we have been working on for a long time," said Guillaume Zounlome, who chairs the Quality of Life committee. "[Graduate] students require these technological upgrades as soon as possible." 
GSU representatives contact· ed Larry Rapagnani. assistant provost of Information Technologies, and informed him of their worries about a year ago. This initiated ~ pro· gram which culminated in long-term plans to remodel the village to include ResNet con­nections, said GSU vies presi­dent David Fowle. 
"We're just trying to do our work in an environment consis­tent with the quality that exists on the rest of the campus," said GSU president Marybeth Graham. "We're working together with the administra­tion to create a better learning environment for graduate stu­dents, and we hope that our positive efforts will result in improvements to the University as a whole." 
At present,. plans for restruc• turing are expectedto be com­plete by the end ofthe year, but construction might not get underway until the spring of 1999if' the plans are approved, accordingto Fcl\vle, ~:l:> 
Another concern is that resi· dents of the village also have had difficulty in accessing the large, often congested comput­er clusters available on cam· pus. 
"I know of horror stories where some graduate students must bring children into their offices at night just to get their workqone," said JeffSquyres, GSUpublications secretary. "Graduates defmitely have dif­ferent needs than other stu­dents." 
In addition to plans for the expansion of the resident net· work, GSU also announced a recent private grant of $50,000 which will be applied toward the construction of a new grad· uate student computer cluster in the Hesburgh Library. 
"The cluster will be open 24 hours a day,'' said Sean Borman, GSU Information Technology Committee chair. "This seems to be exactly what (graduate students} need." 
Andrea Feay, a visiting grad­uate student, was quic'k to point out that positive steps are being taken to remedy the existing situation. but further efforts are still needed. 
"University Village is orga­nized and does have a unified voice," sheexplained. "We are working hard to get our point across." · 
Inspired Minds Wanted. 
Where you work should be a place that inspires the mind. Imagine that. Visit www.EDS-Imagine-IT. com and ask yourself, 
(711~ lru.fl
Jnspzre(ij)s
W®l!lH A more productive wayof working II 
EDS & the EDS logo are registered marks of Electronic Data Systems Corporation. EDS is an equal opportunity employer, m/f/V/d. Ill 1998 Electronic Data Systems Corporation. All rights reserved. 
sc:~niors receive scholarship 
By LAURA ROMPF went through interviews, and The award honors Fanning, a one man and woman were cho-Chicago businessman and
NewsW.~cit=er~--------------­
sen." investor who taught business Frederick Dow, a finance The scholarship includes a communication courses as a major from Burnsville, Minn., $2000 credit to each student's COBA guest instructor from 
and Heather Stone,  an  
accounting major from  
Mequon, Wis., have been  
named the 1998 recipi­ 
ents  of the  Eugene  D.  '  IT IS PLEASANT TO BE RECOGNIZED  
Fanning Scholarships at  FOR QUALITIFS THAT ARE OFTEN  
the University of Notre Dame.  SEEN AS INTANGIBLE ••• IT FEELS GOOD  
Established in 1995 in  TO BE APPRECIATED.'  
honor of Gene Fanning,  
the scholarships are fund­ 
ed  by  donations  from  HEATHER STONE  
members  of  the  1998 EUGENE D. FANNING SCIIOI.AI/SIIIP RECIPIENT  

1989-95. He was a 1953 graduate and a benefac­tor of the University as well as a advisory council member. 
"I was totally shocked yet pleasantly surprised to receive the scholar­ship," Stone said. "Not only was it nice to get the $2000 award, it was nice to be recognized and know your professor thinks highly of you. 
"It is pleasant to be rec­Unive:rsity's advisory· council for the College of Business Administration. 
"Students were nominated by a professor," Stone said. "And then all the recommended [stu­dents] were screened by the comm:ittee, which chose six finalists. Then these finalists tuition account. 
"We also received a com­memorative plaque," Stone said. "And were able to give an acceptance speech in front of the Business College Advisory Board." 
ognized for qualities that arc often seen as intangible," Stone said. "Such as communication skills that are oft1m overlooked, yet so important in today's business world. It feels good to be appreciated." 
Dcty to speak in lecture series 
Special to The Observer 

Geor1~e Day, Geoffrey T. Boisi Professor of Marketing and director of the Center for Global Competition and Innovation at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, will deliver a lecture at 6:30 p.m. today in room 162 of the College of Business Administration. His speech is part of the O'Brien-Smith lecture series sponsored by .the college and is free and open to the public. 
Prior to joining Wharton. Day was the execu­tive director of the Marketing Science Institute, an industry-supported research consortium. He has previously taught at Stanford University, the Interna-:ional Management Development Institute in Swit2erland, and the University of Toronto and has held visiting appointments at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Harvard Business School. 
Day, who earned his doctorate from Columbia University in 1968, s1wves on seven editorial boards and has authored 12 books in the areas of marketing and strategic management. He is currently the program director managing new product development for Managed Centre Europe and the American Management Association. 
The O'Brien-Smith Visiting Scholars Program is made possible by an endowment from 1940 Notre Dame alumnus William O'Brien and his wife, Dee, and is named in honor of their respnc­tive parents. The program brings distinguished scholars to Notre Dame to present a research paper and interact with the faculty, students, and public. 
<Jot something to say? 
~'-e ~t~66'/ ~it~ 066e~ve~ ~t~66ified6. 
INFORMATION MEETING Monday, Oct. 12 --7:00p.m. --Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's OR Wednesday, Oct. 14 --7:00p.m.--Hesburgh Auditorium, Notre Dame Saint Mary's SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM 
;...-.... :::;:.<; '.-y-·-<, k~~>··--: ~--~­
r 
~-­
.. . .~ '~. '' ....~:.-~;_;./ ~ ~ :·~ ·, Y.;_r.:~~ ~: <"> ., .\.
#:""" 
~ ..... -'-• ;J 

> ~ ... ~·-•
. . 
• I • 
. ..
' 
\ 
I 

Open to all ND/SMC students 
Challenging academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian World. 16 semester credits applicable towards core or major requirements. 
Opp<?rtunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE SHORT VIDEO ON HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Any questions, call Dr. C. Pullapilly 272-0889. EVERYONE WELCOME! 
'I 

Thursday, October 8, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Performance seeks to capture spirit of 1600s 
By M. SHANNON RYAN po i g n a n t; llw o t ho r is j u s t groat job with such a hard eating their feelings. Auditions wPrP hPld during tlw \.unt M.lfy's Editor hilarious," Sullivan said. roln." "We've all bt~en there; we first wnek of thn snnwstnr, and Tlw l'ivP-aet play centers Tho play also revolves ean all idnnti(y," Sullivan said. rnhearsals bngan immcdialnly. 
i\s far as anyorw in llw Saint around the Queen of' Sicily, around the comedy of "Unrequited love, unfortunate­But this play did not indud11 .\1 a r y · s till' atP r d P part ml' n t playPd by freshman Beth Florimllll, an irrnprnssible ly, is univnrsal. The chasn is simply mPmorizing lines and knows. "i\ SnrrPt l.ovp" will (;prvain, struggling with the attnndant to thf' Qunf~n played also a fun part of' love everyone stage dirnctions; the actors had makP history wlu•n it opnns combination of hor status and by sophomore Janelle knows." to learn the lifn of the 1600s. tonight. tlw obj11ct of' hnr love. Dombrow, and her lovn inter­The performances .of "A Sullivan worked with thn 
Thought to lw tlw i\nwrican Tlw people of' t.lw kingdom est. Secret Love" culminate a two­actors on language, dialiH:ts, dPIJUt of il play morp than :no hnlinvn it is timn for tlw Queen "lie's a chronic womanizer ynar project by Sullivan and customs, history and mannnr­ypars old. tlH• cast. r.rPw and to marry in ordnr to protect and shn tries to tame him," Bonnell. isms of the era. ;lirr•rtors havP gorw all out for tlwm from A f t n r "I guess I havP a midwPstnrn llw otTasion. vulrwrabili­
rnading accPnt." said sophomore Kant 
i\udiPru·n mt•mlwrs will likPly ty of attack. more than DPDncknr. who plays the cun­I'PPI all of tlw charm, romanrn, T h n 1 () 0 ning ward of tlw QuPPn, Flavia. history and comPdy of tlw () u () () n . scripts "My vownls sound vnry rnid­I (,(,()s ;,s tlwy arP imriwrsPd in hownvnr, the two wnstern and I had to work with till' t•xpPriPrrcP of "intrigut•, fi'SI'nts that decided using a straight dialnet," slw spying. wooing and WPnching," shl' must this would said. said Katit• Sullivan. dirPt·tor marry be "thP Sullivan has had tlw stu­and assistant profnssor of rom­somi'Oiln' of' o n e , dents, who number 2(,, warm munication, dant·.n and tlwatrt•. lwr own S u IIi van up with vowel nxercisns and 
l;ifiPPn milllrtPs i>PforP tht• rank wlwn said. tongue twistnrs IWBry night. .lohn l>rydPn show of LlllrPquit­slw actually "I was "It makns you much morn Pd and trouhlnsonw lovP nvPn holds a never torn aware," D1~Dncker said. hPgins. "orangn girls" will SPcrnt lovl' betwnnn it Tlw actors havn not only had paradr• through thl' audiPnr.n for a simplP and any to adjust to thn propnr lan­sPllirrg randy for a qrrartt~r and I~OmlllOIWr. o t h e r guagn, but to bulky, Plaboratn llirting, much likn womPn who S h n has play." costumes as well. sold fruit during thn play's nlnvatnd tho A f t n r Long fluffy dressns will bn tirrw lll'riod. man to a choosing worn by the women. whiln the 
l'rior to raisirrg tlw curtain. highnr the play. men will adjust to tlw layered cast lllPIJllwrs will darll'P to tlw rank. but Bonnell eostumes of the time twriod. 2h-piP c" s t ud P n I. orr lu~ s t r a, IWI'n hn adapted it The females have learnnd the which will play in full costuml' dol's not to replacn constricts of corsets first hand throughouttlw twrformancn. bt1iii'VI' that any con­as well. One actrnss evnn expe­
ThP play will I'VPn nxtnnd thni r lovP fusing or rienr~d a few bruises from her irrto till' audil'nrn whPrl' an can survivn. archaic tics being pulled too tight. arislorratit' lady and a rakn Thn two languagB "They arn detinitnly a chal­will watch, and latf'r sing a s h a r n with mod-lenge," DnDecknr said. duPt. brPathtak­e r n , "There's not much room for 
"WI' waniPd to incorporatn i n g under­breathing, but it makes you gnt tlw who!!' world of llt•storalion monwnts of standable into charactnr more. You sit up 
tlwalrP ... said Sullivan. who "what if's" dialoguo. a lot straighter and fen! more has workPd with assistant as tlw eth Gervain (left) plays the Queen in Saint Mary's production of 'A Secret " 0 u r like the part." 
The Observer/Lauren O'Neil 
B
dirt' rIo r. dram at u r g. pI a y {)UPPn triPS Love.' Theater professors Katie Sullivan and Thomas Bonnell spent two goal was Tonight through Saturday adapt.Pr and assoriatn profns­to k1wp hnr years preparing the script for this performance. to not the lights will go up at H p.m .. sor of' l·:nglish Thomas Bonrwll. snc rl't from have a sin­with the pre-performancP "\\'p rt•<lily \Vant to bring tlw !wing n•vnalml. Sullivan explainnd. gill member in the audience beginning 15 minutns prior. audiPIH'P into thP lif'P and tinw c;nrvain has the difficult task Florimcll's task lies in per­turning to a friend and saying, Show time for thn Sunday of' tlw play." of playing tlw roln of royalty at suading the rakish fellow to 'lluh? I don't understand matinee is seheduled for 2:30 
Tlw inLPrtwining low storif's its worst-love sick. commit himself to an experi­that,"' Bonnell said. p.m. which form till' basis or the "The Queen is not at her mental form of marriage. Although the play's develop­"I am so proud of how they plot should lw Pasily idnntil'i­best," Sullivan said. "She's had While the female characters ment was a two-year process have all worked." Sullivan said ahll' with lhf' audiPncP, accord­no PXpPrinncl~ with love and struggle with achieving the studied in several classrooms. of the east and crew. "The way ing to Sullivan. slw's impatient and snappy. desires of their hearts, the men the cast has had only five-and­they all came together was ter­
"Orw is touching and Bnth has done a terril'ically bear the difficulty of communi-a-half weeks to prepare. rific." 
LA ALAlANZA 
PRESENTS 
1st Annual Latino Fashion Show 

Got News? 1-5323 


Happy bela 19th birthday, Kara-mia! 
L<Jtte, 
~diu<U ~. ~.aH<t e~ 
Thursday -Saturday October 8 -10 at 8 p.m. Sunday, October ll at 2:30p.m. Little Theatre 

rr:fetYtd ~,.,.. ~··"·-~ 
A17thCENTURY RESTORATION ROMANCE MO~A~ ./ 
For ticket infonnation contact ~EI'JTET~
FOR THE AR ~

l
L sru"' 284A626Offioe m 
""'"'"'~ ~ 


Thursday, October 8, 1998
page 8 The Observer· FINANCIAL NEWS 
Justice Dept. files suit: against credit card giants 

LEWIS HALL 3rd Annual x}:­
Friday, Oct 9th 5:00-7:00 PM at tne Lewis Sand Volleyball Court 
Live entertainment! Food! Prizes! 

Teams of 5 (coed is oKay) ~p5 registration fee per team---sign up tnerel 
All proceeds benefit Camp Albrecht Acres 
~ -~·­
........ 

Associated Press Over time, more competition 
could bring down interest 
WASHINGTON rates, Klein suggested. But he 
Visa and MasterCard, the said that wasn't nation's biggest credit card the immediate networks, are limiting cus-focus of the gov­
'•rHFSE EXCLUSIONARY RULFS
tomer choice and inhibiting ernment lawsuit. competition by preventing "That's a bit of 
DENY CONSUMERS THE banks from offering other a jump, said AIHLITY TO CHOOSE AMONG A
cards, the government alleged Thomas Facciola, Wednesday in an antitrust law-a credit card MAXIMUM VARIETY OF CARD suit. industry analyst PRODUCTS.'
The two, which account for at Lehman 75 percent of credit card sales B r o t h e r s . 
in the United States, "really Con sum e r s don't compete with each other, already can get ... because they're both con-special deals on trolled by the same banks," credit cards, such said Assistant Attorney General as low introductory "teaser" Joel Klein, who heads the rates touted through the mail, Justice Department's antitrust he noted. division. Reno said the lack of compe­
"And since the same banks tition delayed for about a issue both cards, they won't decade the introduction of so­allow Visa and MasterCard to called "smart cards," which engage in head-,------------, use a computer to-head competi-chip to expand tion to develop ways people can 
new and better "lfA'lS~ make purchases.
products and ser-· The govern-vices," Klein said. · · · . ment lawsuit 
Closest rival grew out of an American .,.~, investigation Express covers into a complaint only 18.4 percent almost two years of the market, • ago from American Express and the Discover card has 5.6 Co. percent, the government said. American Express called the 
In its lawsuit filed in federal action "a major step toward court in New York City, the breaking the illegal strangle­government challenged the hold that Visa and MasterCard joint control of the credit card have had on the card industry networks by the same group of for years." Investors apparent-large banks. ly agreed as 
The govern-shares of ment also chal-A m e r i c a n longed rules Express rose imposed by $2.50, or 4 both Visa USA percent, to Inc. and $73.25 on the MasterCard New York International S t o c k that bar banks Exchange. issuing their The two com-cards from doing business with panics disagreed and said they smaller, competing credit card would defend their policies vig­networks. orously in court. 
"These exclusionary rules "The Justice Department's 
deny consumers the ability to assault on what is widely rec­
choose among a maximum ognized as one of the most 
variety of card products," intensely competitive indus­
Attorney General Janet Reno tries is entirely misplaced," 
said. "America's consumers said Noah Hanft. MasterCard's 
have lost out." senior vice president and legal 
In denying the allegations, counsel. 
Visa and MasterCard insisted "Consumers have unlimited 
their industry is among the choices when it comes to credit 
natimfs most competitive. cards," said Paul Allen, Visa's 
It was unclear whether executive vice president and 
remedies the government seeks general counsel, citing aggres­
would lower credit card inter-sive mail solicitations by banks. 
est rates that Americans pay. Justice's Klein said the inves­ligation also showed anti-com­Citing the length of time it petitive actions by the two took to introduce secure large networks in marketing Internet credit card transac­
JANET RENO ATTORNEY GENERAL 
commercial credit cards for in any conventional business business use and in developing sense," according to the lawsuit. of a se,cure system of transac­Klein said such problems had tions for the Internet. not arisen in Europe and South 
Room 114 CCMB 
tions, Klein quoted a Visa executive as say­ing in 1995: ''If we had our group (of banks) and (MasterCard) had their group, ... (an Internet product) would be out already." 
In 1992, MasterCard's executive viee president 
"MasterCard and Visa 
and  general  counsel  
wrote  the  Justice  
Department  that  

simply do not 'compete' 
America where antitrust authorities have questioned such practices and the networks have backed off. 
The government asked the court to remove the exdusionary rules from the networks' bylaws and to require that banks gov­erning an association be dedicat­ed to one particular network. 
Shares of credit card issuers for the most part dropped in trading Wednesday. On the NYSE, Capital One Financial Corp. suffered a 21 percent decline, dropping $18 to $67 . while Household International, droppc~d $1.43 3/4, or 5 percent, to $28.56 1/4. Advanta Corp. fell $1.93 3/4, or 13 percent, to $8.56 1/4 on the Nasdaq Stock Market. 
There is a fee for this ser­vice, so prints sent over the network will not be released unless requested. Payment can be made with a depart­ment account number, cash or check made payable to University of Notre Dame. 


Please join us for demonstra­tions of our new networked, 40 pa!Je per minute, full color copier/printer. Receive a free mc•use pad with your picture on it. Bring your favorite pho­tograph and we will make a copy of it for you. Also enter our drawing for 20 free prints (drawing will be held at ~;pm the same day as the opeln house). 
Services currently available include printing from your desktop over the Internet, paper sizes of 8.5 x 11, 8.5 x 14 and 11 x 17 in various weights. Also transparen­cies, duplexing (2 sided print­ing on all stocks), stapling, folding and booklet making. 
Thursday, October 8, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9 
--------------~~~~~~~~~====~~~~~~~~~==~ 
Senate approves rebel aid funds 
Assuc.:iatcc.l Press 
WASIIIN<;TON 

Tl11~ Snnatl' vot1)d without dissPnt WPdnesday 11 i g ht t 0 s() n d 
w1~ and our allies shed blood actual total that would go to to lilwrate Kuwait. Today, we the rebels, up to $97 million. are empowering the Iraqis to The money, to come from liberate their own country." other programs, eould go to defense services, mili­tary equipment and 
l'rPsidPnl Clinton leg­
training. islation providing up The CIA aided Iraqi
'TODAY WE ARE 
to $1)7 million in mili­resistance groups after
EMPOWERING THE
tary aid lo Iraqi rPiwls the Gulf War in 1991 I ry i 11 g I o d r i v~~ IRAQIS TO LIBERATE THEIR and Congress earli1~r Saddam llussPin !"rom approved some
OWN COUNTRY.' 
JlOWI'r. humanitarian and Tl11• hill, whirh also political support for givl's $2 million to THHNT Lorr Kurd ish op position
Hadio l;ri'P Iraq. passl'd thl' IIOUSI' 011 Monday and rlearnd the SPrJaln on a voirn votiL It awaits tlw pn~sident's signa­tun• to lwronw law. 
SPnatn majority lnadl'r Tn~nt l.olt, H-r'v1iss., said thl) hill would usl11•r in a nPw niTort by thP UnitPd Stati)S to rPplaee thP Iraqi prPsidPnt "through military and political support !"or tlw Iraq opposition." 
"l'assagP of this hill is a major stPp forward in thP final conclusion of tlw 1'1)rsian (;ull" war," l.oll said. "In I 1J1J I, 
,. . (~ ·.pu··· .,,
• l_•.. ·r .:1i ": Hl : 
5,'h'NI1"11i M!l.IOHI'l1' Ui!l!Jii"/1 groups npf~rating out­side Iraq. H1)publicans have Whit•~ House officials have criticized the administration nxprnssed some concern about as shirting its policy toward tlw bill. including how to fig­Iraq. Last winter, the adminis­ure out which opposition tration threatened to usc mili­groups would qualify, but said tary action, if needed, to tlwy support tlw intent. assure United Nations Lott spneifically mentioned weapons inspectors access to llllP group, tlw Iraqi National sus p1H: ted weapons si tlls. Congress, as having been Critics claim the administra­"PI"I"nrtive in the past." lie said tion has recently focused its some groups definitely should nffort on keeping sanctions rwver qualify, such as tho against Iraq in place and Iraqi Communist Party. avoiding a direct confronta­Clinton would determine the tion. 
Government votes to approve Rad~o Free Europe plans for Iraq broadcasts 
Associated Press 
I'HAGUE 
Tlw Cznrh govnrnnwnt allowPd PraguP-based 
lladio FrPP Furop1~ to broadcast into Iraq on 
WPdrwsday. but insisted thn station's location 
should ehangP to avoid security risks. 
FarliPr this year, the U.S. govPrnment-funded 
radio station announePd plans to 11xpand its 
hroa1kasts into Iran and Iraq. But the Czeeh 
CahinPI 1~xprnss1)d 1·oncnrns berause tlw station is 
in a dPnsely populated n~sidPntial area in north­
Prn l'raguP. 
"Tiw government agn•ns with the HFE broad­
casts (into Iraq) on condition that, duo to security 
risks involved, the station's location bn revinwed," 
VicP l'rmnier Vladimir Spidla said WPdnPsday. 
[A true comic original) 
"We think the present location is not a suitable onn," Spidla said. lie said consultations about a new location were already under way but of'f'ered no details. 
During thn Cold War, HFE was popular among Czechs and otlwrs in the Soviet bloc as an alter­native to the communist propaganda of their own media. 
HFE began transmitting from Munich, Germany, in 1951. spreading uncensored news to Soviet-controlled countries behind the Iron Curtain during the Cold War. 
It moved its headquarters to Prague in 1995, following the collapse of communism six years earlier and began broadcasting out of a promi­nent downtown building that once served as Czechoslovakia's parliament building. 
WEdnesday, OdobEr 14, 8:00pm, $i!!5 
His delivery 1s deadpan, hrs manner sto1c and he's the hottest act to catch today. Steven Wr1ght bnngs his uniquely funny obsel\lations about reality to our stage. An Academy Award w1nner, aregular guest on "The Late Show with David Letterman," 'The Tonight Show wrth Jay Lena," and 'Late Nrght with Conan O'Brien," Steven Wrrght will surely entertarn you w1th h1s special brand of adult comedy. 
SponsorEd by 107w'iRX 
•GAZA 
Mideast leaders making progress 
Associated Press Washington," Netanyahu told reporters after returning to EHEZ CHECKPOINT Jerusalem. If the Washington S1~cretary of State Madeleine summit is successful, he said, Albright said Wednesday that he won't rule out beginning Israeli and Palestinian leaders negotiations with Arafat at th{~had made "significant summit. on an ovtlrall SPtt.le­
progress" toward a Wost Bank ment. 
accord and hope to conclude it This would mean dealing at a summit with President with twtm more dillicult issues Clinton next week. than an lst'Mli pullbaek on thH 
"Basically, we have a lot to West Bank. The Palestinians do," Albright said in are insisting on a state and Jerusalem, as she prepared to plaeing its capital in fly to Brussels, Belgium, and Jerusalem. then to London to grapple with "Are the Palestinians ready the unrest in the Serbian to fullill t.heit-commitments, to 
province of Kosovo. The sum­revoke the PLO charter, to 
m i t 
opens Oct. 15 a n d 
'ICAN SAY WE could CLIMBED THE 
l a s t 
FOOTHilLS. WE
more than STILL HAVE A VERY 
o n e 
lARGE MOUNTAIN
day. "I am TO SCALE IN v e :r y 
WASHINGTON.'
realis· t i c 
fight terror, to fulfill completely their part of the agree­ment tind(JI' the principle of reciproci­t y ? " Netanyahu asked. "If the answer is yes, there will be an 

about 
BENJAMIN NETANY!lHU agreement.
their 
!SRAEU PRIME MINISTER Period."
having t 0 make the hard decisions," Albright said of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat. who will be negotiating with the direct participation of Clinton. 
"Their body language has been fairly positive," she said. "But you can't get away from the fact they do have to make the hard choices.~ 
The summit will be held at 
Wye Plantation, a conference 
site on the eastern shore of 
Maryland, White House press 
secretary Joe Lockhart said. 
There were both symbolic and solid signs of progress after nearly two years of dead­lock. 
Arafat invited Netanyahu to a lamb and fish lunch he host­ed for Albright at a Palestinian guost house after the three­way talks. 
Netanyahu smoked a cigar after the meal, and later told Israelis the food Arafat served was kosher. 
A senior U.S. official said, meanwhile, that the two sides agreed on the establishment of an industrial zone in Gaza in December and the formation of an anti-incitement committee that would include educators and journalists. The aim is to deter provocative statements on both sides. 
The oft1cial, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said CIA Director George Tenet met Tuesday with Israeli and Palestinian security officials. No details were provided, but the CIA for years has been assisting in the coordination of information about terrorism. 
At a news conference, Albright said: "We are in a far better position to finalize all the issues" needed to conclude an agreement on the West Bank. 
"The president is going to be very much involved in a lot of tho detailed work," Albright said. "He has a very special and uncanny ability to work with people who have dlnkult problems like these. He puts himself in their shoes." 
"I can say we climbed the foothills. We still have a very large mountain to scale in S a i d 
Arafat, 
"Until now. the Israeli side did 
not give any sign of approval 
for the American initiative, but 
in spite of that we are continu­
ing our negotiations today." 
In an exchange with reporters Wednesday in the Oval Office, Clinton said hn was eager for the talks to start. 
"It may take more than a day, yes," he said. "I asked them to block out a couple of dt\ys to come back because I think it's very important that we try to get over these last humps and get into the last stage of negotiations." To wit. aides said he had cancelled plans to attend a Yale law school reunion on Oet. 17 in order to focus on the peace talks. 
''I'm prepared to invest as much time as it takes," he said, adding that he would stay closely involved. "I will be involved eonstantly throughout the process, yes," he said. 
''I'm encouraged by the atti­tude and the sense of oponness I felt from Prime Minister Netanyahu and Mr. Arafat the last time they were here," Clinton said. "And if they can come back here with that spir­it, we're close enough now that we ean get this done. And I just hope and pray that that will happen when they come back." 
Albright praised the cooper­ation of Netanyahu and Arafat. 
"This new spirit. was very helpful and I hope very mueh that it will be carried on to Washington," she said. ''I am Vl:'.ry realistk that there are still hard decisions to be made." 
Albright nott~d this was the first time that Netanyahu had ventured into Palestinian-held territory. ''These two !P;Hif~rs hero ar'e putting their shoul­df'rs to the wheel," she said. 
The Israeli pullbaek on the Wost Bank that is projceted would cover 13 percent of the territory Israel won f'rom .Jot·dan in the 1967 Miclnast War. About 3 percent would be maintained as a nature pre­serve under joint Israeli­Palestinian security supervi­sion. 
-_j 
Thursday, October 8, 1998

The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
page 10 
House acts to halt thefts of personal identity 
Lower satellite TV rates also get House OK 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

The House passed a bill Wednesday to combat what lawmakers say is one of the fastest growing crimes in the country -the theft of personal identifying information such as a name, date of birth or Social Security number. 
The House also agreed to roll back for 18 months an increase in royalty fees that satellite car­riers pay for TV programming. The increase took effect in January. 
Identity theft would be pun­ishable by up to 15 years in prison, or up to 20 years if com­mitted during a violent crime under the bill, which passed by voice. 
The measure also would cre­
ate a clearinghouse for com­
plaints and consumer education 
about such crimes within the 
Federal Trade Commission. 
A similar bill cleared the 
Senate in July. 
Current law bans only the 
possession or production of 
false identification papers. 
Identity theft occurs when a 
person illegally uses someone 
else's information to obtain 
credit, such as a charge card or 
a home mortgage. Most victims 
do not realize a crime has 
occurred until bill collectors 
start calling about the unpaid 
debt. 
Legislation rolling back the 
satellite fee increase was passed 
by voice vote. Sponsoring Rep. 
W.J. "Billy" Tauzin, R-La., said it would reduce satellite TV rates for consumers. 
In January, the U.S. Copyright Office increased the fees that satellite television companies pay for network programs they carry on their systems to 27 cents per subscriber per month from 6 cents, compared with 2.7 cents per subscriber paid by cable operators. 
The bill, which advanced to the Senate, would restore the fees for satellite companies to the level they were before the increase until Dec. 31, 1999. 
The Congressional Budget Office estimates the bill will reduce copyright collections by about $120 million during the period. 
Lawmakers argued that the 
increase was consumer­
unfriendly and could increase 
rates and reduce competition 
for the cable industry, where 
rates have grown faster than 
inflation. 
"At a time when we need 
more, not less, competition in 
the video marketplace, we 
shouldn't be burdening the 
(satellite) industry and its con­
sumers with arbitrary and addi­
tional costs," said Tauzin, chair­
man of the House Commerce 
telecommunications, trade and 
consumer protection subcom­
mittee. 
By voice vote, the House also 
passed legislation to: 
• 
Authorize Customs officials to block Mexican-registered, commuter vehicles that do not meet California vehicle emission standards from entering the state. The bill, an attempt to improve southern California air quality, advanced to the White House. 

• 
Direct the attorney general to study. collect and report to Congress information about crimes against people with developmental disabilities. The measure, which the Senate passed in July, advanced to the White House. 


• Aid the Irish peace process by offering up to 4,000 three­• Direct the Justice enforcement agencies use to year visas annually to qualified Department's Bureau of Justice identify criminals. The bill, applicants from Ireland, their Statistics to make grants to which the Senate passed in spouses and children. The bill states to establish or upgrade September, also advanced to advanced to the Senate. computer systems that state law the White House. 

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More! 
Location: -in the Campus Shoppes -1835 South Bend Ave. -Between Ironwood and Edison 
Hours: -Sunday to Thursday I lam to lam -Friday and Saturday I lam to 3am 
FREE DELIVERY 
243-9911 

($5 ~ linimum -J.imited J>divery \rea -r>riv~ ('an)· l.cs~ Than S20) 
After eating both w 01fie ' s 
and Subway®, 100°/o ofthe participants ofan independent survey conducted on the Notre Dame campus (7 guys in Zahm Hall) said they would never eat Subway® again. Plt1;s Wol_fie's takes orders for Delivery or Carry-Out Till lam (3am on Fri. & Sat.). Why would anyone go anywhere else but Wolfie's? 

Notre Dame Faculty and Staff 
PLEASE JOIN US AT A NOTRE DAME UNITED WAY KICK-OFF MEETING
.

BRICK 
BY 
Thursday, October 8 at 7 a.m., noon and 5p.m. or Friday, October 9 at 10 a.m. Notre Dame Stadium Press Box -Third Floor 
(enter from the doorway on the west side of the stadium facing DeBartolo Hall) 
Food Services Staff Meetings will be: October 8at 10 a.m. in the Food Services Support Facility October 8at 2p.m. in the South Dining Hall
BRICK 
October 9at 2 p.m. in the North Dining Hall -Gold Room 
FOOD • DOOR PRIZES • AND MORE! (All United Way contributors will be automatically entered in this year's BIG DRAWING!)
Investing in 
* Bring your LEGO piece with you to add to the University's LEGO building project. 
All LEGOs returned will be donated to a local United Way agency.
0 U R Community! 
WE LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU THERE! 
I • 

Thursday, October 8, 1998 
The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 11 
• PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
140 feared dead after landslide 
Got News? Call us at 1-5323. 
C)heS~c~-i! for CHuman ~source ~anagement & the ~anagement Cfub "''oufd fike to invite ever~one to attend the ... 
Donnelly Lecture Series in ·Participatory Management 
*** 
LinctaMoran 
of Achieve Global 
"Keeping Teams on Track" 
*** 
Friday, October 9 12:00-1:15 p.m. 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Administration 
Associated Press 
POHT MOHESBY 

Up to 140 people are feared dead after a landslide buried a church congregation in Papua New Guinea's remote moun­tainous highlands, reports said this morning. 
The National newspaper said the congregation was buried alive in the northern part of Enga province last Friday. Eight bodies had been recov­ered and a 9-year-old girl was the sole survivor of the disas­ter, it said. 
Papua New Guinea consists of half of the Pacific Ocean island of New Guinea as well as several surrounding archi­pelagos. 
The landslide reportedly occurred a few miles east of Maramuni Station during 
heavy rain early Friday morn­ing, said Teata Poko, a spokesman for the National Broadcasting Commission in the Enga provincial capital of Wabag. 
"The landslide is believed to have killed up to 140 people," Poko said. 
But confirmation of details was difficult because Maramuni Station is in a very remote area with no road or telephone links he said. 
The National Disastnr and Emergency Services said it was still awaiting confirmation of the disaster from state emer­gency authorities, who were f1ying by helicopter to the area this morning. 
The National reported that the victims were sleeping after a prayer meeting, and included eight people from one family. 

Do you like to write? Ifso, give us a call, or stop by our office. 

ON THE OCCASION OF NATIONAL COMING OUT DAY, OCTOBER 11, 1998, WE, THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS, JOIN NOTRE DAME'S GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENTS IN GRATITUDE FOR THE LOVE AND SUPPORT THEY HAVE RECEIVED FROM FAMILY AND FRIENDS. 
AS A COMMITTEE, WE RECOMMIT OURSELVES TO PROVIDING EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE ENTIRE NOTRE DAME COMMUNITY. WE WILL CONTINUE THE NETWORK INITIATIVE BEGUN LAST YEAR. NETWORK PREPARES AND EDUCATES INDIVIDUALS ON CAMPUS WHO ARE WILLING TO OFFER A CONFIDENTIAL AND RESPECTFUL PLACE OF DIALOGUE AND ENCOURAGEMENT REGARDING GAY AND LESBIAN ISSUES. THE NEXT CYCLE OF PREPARATION SESSIONS FOR THOSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO BECOME PART OF THE NETWORK INITIATIVE WILL TAKE PLACE IN NOVEMBER. OTHER EDUCATIONAL INITIATIVES WILL INCLUDE SPEAKERS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR DISCUSSION ON ISSUES RELATED TO SEXUAL ORIENTATION. 
WE URGE ALL MEMBERS OF OUR COMMUNITY TO REDOUBLE OUR EFFORTS TO MAKE OUR CAMPUS A SAFE AND WELCOMING PLACE FREE FROM HARASSMENT OF ANY KIND. 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
http:www.nd.edu/-scgln 
1..) 


------------~------~----~-----­
--------------------------------· 
VIEWPOINT 
page12-----------------------------------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME 0HICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR.. . ... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Liuli AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Bterr Huelat SPORTS EDITOR..... . .... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER... .. ........ Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........... . . ... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER..... ................. Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klitsch WEB ADMINiSTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MAR.v's EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pere Cilella PHOTO EDITOR . . ................. Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by rhe srudems of rhe University ofNorre Dame duLac and Sainr Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe adminisrr:uion ofeither institution. The news is 
reponed :tS accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Edi[Or, Assisranr Managing Edicor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of rhe authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all 
members of the Nom: Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistanr ME 631-4541 Adverrising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General1nformarion 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
os~fRVER --------------------Thursday, October 8, 1998 

• SUPER H!GH INTENSITY TRAINING FOR THE M!ND 
I Wrote the Resolution for Student Rights Romper Room 
A week ago, apparently a group of men assembled outside Zahrn Hall to attack the building with taunts of, "Who lives in Zahm? Faggots live in Zahrn." At the last pep rally, it also seems that Siegfried and 
Spencer Stefko 

some other dorm engaged in TestosteroneMania I, where they assailed each other with accusations ofhomosexual tendencies and behavior. 
The suggestion that being gay is, in and of itself, a bad thing is a hateful, injurious thing to gay people and anyone who cares about how a fellow human being may feel. I don't think anyone really believes that Zahm's gay population is any larger than any other dorm's; so the previously men­tioned statement was just a manifestation of the anti-Zahm sentiment that apparently afllicts all male dorms whose names do not start with "Z." 
I have a solution in order to not make the gay students on campus feel that being gay is a bad thing. 
Regardless of the hateful crap put forth in Right Reason: Official Newspaper ofthe Hitler Youth Movement, homosexuality is either inborn or environmental: the former of which one has no control over, and the latter of which one has no control over until later in life. There is no way that a straight male would choose a life of being an outcast or the painful sexual practice of homosexual acts. 
The same God that created straight folks created gay folks. And to say that an inclina­tion (homosexuality) that God creates is negative in and of itself is hateful. So here's what we're going to do. 
See, it's OK to hate Zahrn. (You have no idea how much we love it when you tell us.) But , most would agree, not OK to hate gay people. So we need to disassociate the two. No more, "Zahrn is gay." Come by V\oith your original non-gay cheer, chant it around Zahm Hall, and as a hall, we will judge which is the funniest. (On a personal note, I would suggest stupidity, bestiality. and Montanaity-being from Montana-as possible themes, but that's all up to you.) The winning dorm gets the privilege of not having cinder blocks, my broken TV, and my Californian roommates dropped on them from my third-story window. The losers get those things. Next week I will publish your non-hateful chant, which will hopefully be adopted by the rest of the male dorms. 
Your dorm will then have praise heaped upon it as helping to rid the campus of a little perceived hate. I honestly 
'We found time to
don't think it's hate, just Alliance: irresponsible at ignorance that looks and pass a bill on best, downright dishon­sounds like hate. So let's est and misleading at
behalf of a 90 percent
keep the anti-Zahrn sen­worst. You get no timent (it's tradition) but Catholic Student Body award, but a disapprov­get rid of the hatred. All ing reprimand: 
that welcomed some-
by ourselves, like big "Clowns." 
one who has tirelessly
boys and girls. No So who keeps the Student Affairs, no pursued the noble Presently Scatterbrained courts, no PSA. (Anything Alliance from winning 
cause of infanticide.'
but the Perpetually Sauced Alliance.) Now for the bi-weekly installment of "Campus Clowns of the fortnight": 
Reprieve: Whoever chanted the afore­mentioned chant. College is about learning from mistakes, both your own and others. So learn from your mistake. I did. I expect a strong showing in the original-chant compe­tition, though. 
Runner-up: The Particularly Senseless Alliance. (They'd win again this week, but I don't want a monopoly on my awards.) 
As a campus, we have not explored fully what the non-discrimination clause would entail. Wold it force Notre Dame to have gay marriages in the Basilica? How about the establishment of gay dorms? Could it affect what material Notre Dame could teach in its classes? I don't know, and probably neither do you. This has yet to be explored. So what does the Peculiarly Self-important Alliance do? Do they educate? Do tl1ey look into this? Nope. I talked to a co-founder about the implications and she told me she doesn't know, "But it's not about that. It's about stu­dent rights." (Urn, Lewis Hall, that was your Senator who just said that.) 
So how did the Pretty Stupid Alliance mobilize people for this cause? A sign that said, "Not homophobic? Sign here." Except the Primitively Scattershot Alliance petition didn't say, ''I'm not homophobic." It said, "I support the non-discrimination clause." A sign that said, "Want to be on TV?" But the rally wasn't for people who wanted to be on TV. It was ostensibly for people who have weighed the legal pros and cons of this clause. Those things are as different as 
night and day. These 
moves by the 
Persistently Sappy 
the award for the 2nd 

week in a row? None other than our own Student Senate (a.k.a. Student Rights Romper Room). We failed last week. I say "we" because I am Zahm's senator, and 1don't care who said what last week at Student Rights Romper Room, by virtue of the body failing, each individual failed. Last week was one ofthe all-around worst meetings ofa supposedly representa­tive body in the history of Western Civilization, a meeting that earned the body the name Student Rights Romper Room. 
First, we wouldn't share (the right to speak with a group that represented 500 students), and when we had to we whined to Mommy (our Chairwoman). Afterward, we said that what really happened didn't happen. Then when Mommy left the room (she had a prior commitment), things really got out of hand. We had kids not letting oth­ers talk (voting on bills with very limited debate), someone threatening to take his toys and go home (really a binder), someone taking sometlling (the right to speak) and not giving it back (a filibuster that was actu­ally well-justified), and someone eating paste (that was me.) 
In the meantime, we found time to pass a bill on behalf of a 90 percent Catholic Student Body that welcomed someone who has tirelessly pursued the noble cause of infanticide. This isn't a difference on an eco­nomic issue or on the correct way to build a Guinness. It is a difference on whether or not this man has legalized murder. Yeah. yeah, you, by virtue of being a student. wel­comed him to campus last week. We also gave the student voice on the topic of the non-discrimination clause to someone else under the rationale that "they'll look into it." The resolution that we passed (co-authored by yours truly-under the mistaken assumption we would research and debate this responsibly) was never considered to the extent that anyone had any lee! for the ramifications. (I kid you not. That was actu­ally said at the meeting, to no objection.) We tried to pause to consider its merits, but a member of the Publicity Seeking Alliance was there and got a student rights band­wagon rolling, and very few senators would go against that. Truly a posse of insane clowns, we were. (I am a member of senate: Did Ijust oppress myself? Call the Preposterously Schizophrenic Alliance.) 
Here's a call to the Academic Cow1cil to send the resolution back unopened until we consider this issue responsibly. And I hope they ignore the Prodigiously Simple Alliance rally. And if they won't,1 hope the adminis­tration ignores all student voice on this topie until someone researches the topic and debates it correctly. But please also give us a muzzle so we can make a Pleasantly Silent Alliance. 
Spencer Stefko i.s a senior American Studies Major who is also Zahm F fall's Senator and Associate Viewpoint Editor at The Observer. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 

• DOONESBUIW GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 


'' 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursd~\y, Ocrober 8, 1998-------------------os~ERVER --------------------------------------------------page 13 
• So, WHAT's MY POINT? 
A reconsideration of 'culture' 
This stmwstnr I havn had the great good fortune not to have to spend tho fall in the cultural desola­tion that is South Bend, Indiana. Instead. as a Washington Sem11ster student, I have befln stuck in the cultural desolation that is Washington, District of Columbia. 
No, I'm kidding. Of eourse Washington is a won· dnrfully culturnd metropolis. It does, after all, have a Starbueks on every street corner. Starbucks has a virtual monopoly on the Washington market, but on -------------------------------those rare 
corners 
where it 
does not
Nakasha 
have a 
glass­
enclosed 
nook, 
another 
Ahmad 

______:=======----cofTee bar
has stnppPd in to fill the eafl'cine void. And as every per­son knows. the m11asure of a city's sophistication is measured by thfl number of' its eoll'ee bm·s. 
Washington is a very sophisticated city. Alas, South Bend boasts not a single Starbucks. The dosest thing we havn to a coll'ee bar is Lula's. And speaking of culinary dnlights-would you ever find an Ethiopian restaurant in South 13cnd'? An Ethiopian restaurant'? No. I didn't think so. But Washington has one. Along with Thai. Mexkan. .Japanese, Indian, the ubiquitous Chineso, Italian, English (the "Childe Ilarold" restau­rant-how many pPople even know who Childe Harold was'? llint: Look up Lord Byt·on), plain old Amerkan. Bagel, which is its own kind of food in itself, and Greek-real Greek. not gyro Greek. flow can the I lining II all possibly compate with that, I ask you. 
Another hallmark of a cultured city is the preva­l•mco of taxicabs. Cabs are everywhere here. And not just canary yellow cabs. No, here in D.C., you can lind a cab of whatever color you desire. And for dri­ving you two blocks, they will very civilly, and in a very eultured manru1r, take your four dollars 
'J::'\>r driving you two 
for the privilege 
of driving you Jlblocks,~ey[ca~fivn minutns. 
hies] will very civilly, 
During tlw live designat11d rush and in a very cultured hours (7.CJ::io 
manner, take your four 
a.m. and 4-o::w 
p.m.), tlwy will dollars for ~e privilege civilly takn eight 
of driving you five minM 
dollars for the same distance. utes.' 
llowevnt·, all truly cultured, civilized, and sophisticated cities pro­vide anothPr amenity for those too poor to own a ear or take a taxi or too good to sit in traffic like every· ono (J)se. For the paltry sum of one dollar and ten crnts. you can hop onto an underground Metro train and ridf1 !'rom Ameriran University to Dupont Cirele or Farragut North Mntro stops. Or for a little more, mako the round to Union Station with its shops and cafns. Or lnavn Union Station and walk a few blocks to tlw SnnatH building. Where they'll ask you to put your bags on a conveyor bolt and go through a secu· rity gate. Or get off at Judiciary Square, enter the Department of Labor. and sign in your name. organi· zation. and destination. and show some ID. Again, the hallmark of a n•al city is how tight its security is. CulturP is mnasured not just by the number of coffee bars. but by tho number of conveyor belts and x-ray machines it has per capita. 
Oh. thoro arc a few other minor indicators of cui­turn and sophistieation: the Van Gogh exhibit Ill the National Gallery of Art, the 17 departments of tho Smithsonian Museum. the Postal Museum. the Knnrwdy Cnnter. ete. And keep in mind, that Washington. D.C. is home of such truly dviliznd and nllturnd pnopln and institutions sueh as Bill "Slick Willie" and "Bubba" Clinton. Ken "Big Brother" Starr. Thn "Ail-Standal. All-the-tirnn" Washington l'ost, and of coursr. the Washington bureaus of ABC, NBC, CBS. and CNN. And thn former home of First Mistrnss Monica Lewinsky. Yes. Washington truly is a civiliznd dty-after all, could South Bond ever hope to I)(' the home of sueh distinguished luminaries'? 
I didn't think so. 
Nakaslw Ahmad is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. ller column appears euery other Thursday. '/'he uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseruer. 
.liFE AT ND 

Hair and Family 
I know the smell of a hot curling iron on Sundays. You see, there was always an aunt who "knew how to do hair." You never saw that aunt any other time, but if you saw that certain aunt on Tuesday, you knew somebody would be get­ting their hair done on Saturday or 
Mel 
Tardy 
Sunday. 

All week long, mom and the aunt would coordinate the logistics. It may have only been about pigtails for my sister, but it sounded like a meeting of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. They always had to consult at least two other aunts before everyone agreed on the steps: "Girl. be care­ful, causn you know you burned so and so's scalp so bad, she can't grow lwr hair out anymore!" "Girrrl, you gonna pull her hair out by the roots!" 
At some point beforehand, the hair would need to be washed, but not in the shower. mind you. Back then. hair was washed in the sink, with the base of your neck resting on the lip of the sink. Squench! Squench! Squench! Then, rinse. Then came the hair curlers and the dreaded. loud hair dryer. which would be on the better part of tho evening. I particularly despised the hair dryer because the person get­ting tlu1ir hair done never felt they should be denied the right to watch TV--and there was only one TV! Thus, the volumn was always turned up six notches to compen­sate. You'd look their way three hours later. and they might be kenlml over sleeping with the "VrrrrHHOOOMM" still going, but if you tried to turn off the machine, they'd always utter those same four words: "It's not dry yet!" VvvvrrHHHOOOMMM ... Zzzzzzzzz. (Sigh) 
Everybody had a dill'erent term for iL Mom would say. "She's get­ting a perm." Dad would say, "She's getting her hair pressed." I'd say. "She about to get her hair BUHNED!" Sec, I knew the smell. In the end, though, her hairdo (now, of course, the proper vernac­ular is "do") would always come out looking alright ... well, as fine as pigtails ean. Always. there'd be the tnlltalf1 slip, born of careless laugh­tor or jui1:y gossip among the Joint Chiefs. signified by one or two slight burns to the upper forehead or neck. 
Unfortunately, just so we wouldn't f!lel )pft out. my dad would always bring my brother and I into the next room and we'd have our hair cut. too. "You know your daddy paid his way through Xavier by cutting hair." my mom always said. Alii knew was, I hated haircuts. For orw. I loved my hair lonnng-yes, as in AFrooooo!!! Second, if I protestnd too much (which I always did), I'd get my Dad angry, and hn'd takn it out on my head. twisting it vigorously left. up. right and down to get the proper angle on my head with th11 dipp!1rs and scissors. Then, he'd usn that barber's brush to basically scratch the daylights out the back of my neck (he called it "brushing ofl'loose hair.") 
In the end, he'd use a razor blade to earefully line around my ears and the hack of my neck, during which time I wouldn't dare breathe or flinch, for fear of getting nicked. The risk was greater if my dad was, at the same time. watching football on TV. An interception by the wrong team could mean the loss of an ear! The worst part, however, was when he'd cap all that ofl'with a stinging, malicious splashing of aftershave lotion, to prevent razor bumps on my neck. Torture, sheer torture!! Somehow or another, though at first I never thought it possible, I did actually look better when he handed me that mirror. 
I used to never know why that Aunt would come over to OUR house to do the hair, but I think I know now. That dang curling iron smell could linger in the house for a whole week! Why should a woman put up with that in her own house? 
On Sunday morning, the hair curlers would come out of the wom­en's hair, and everything pulled together with, once again, that smoking gun. Moreover, every­where you went that day, you'd smell the curling iron! When you went to church, when you visited the relatives who didn't go to church, when you went to the gro­cery store, you'd smell it. Even if a woman walked up past you on the sidewalk, once you got a whifl' of that hair. sight unseen, you could safely exelaim, "Oh! Got your hair done recently'?!" All said, though, we just wanted to feel good about ourselves, in the way that we saw ourselves. That's how I grew up. 
During my first ynar as a student at Notre Dame, I needed to get my hair cut for a formal. Aller over an hour at thn campus barber shop, thn barber handnd a mirror to me, thn only African American in the room. 
It was ... dill'erenL I nnver went back. Yes, I know well tlw smell of a hot curling iron on Sunday. To me, it's 
'yes, I know well ~e 
smell of a hot curl­
ing iron on Sunday. To 
me, it's the smell of fam­
ily. 

the smflll of family ... 
And sometimes, you nond your family when j'OU have to gnt your hair done. 
Mel Tard.iJ, f~{ the graduating classes ~~r 1986 and ICJWJ. is an Academic J\d1•isor in the First Year ofStudies Department. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those 1~{ the author and not necessarily those ~~{The Observer. 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Hatred not welconte at Cavanaugh Hall 
Monday night at around 1:00 a.m. I was awakened by several male voices chanting outside my window. Living in Cavanaugh I have come to realize that the guys in Zahm love to cheer outsidn their beloved dorm and thought nothing of it. That is, until I real­ized these were not the men of Zahm Hall. What I heard coming f•·om my window was the chanting of. "Faggots live in Zahm. fag­gots live in Zahm.'' I would like to remind these men that the word faggot is as hateful as nigger or guido or kykll and the use of it is thoroughly unChristian and against evet·ything Notrn Dame stands for. What happened on Monday night was totally unacenpt­ablc and I beg you to stop the practice now. You are perpetuating hatred. · 
And, to the woman in my Sllction who had the eouragn to yoU out the window. "How dare you use that word'?!'!" I say thank you. You have done Notre Dame proud. 
Clare Deckelman Senior, Cavanaugh Hall Octobn 6, 1998 



pagel4-------------------------------------------------OTHE ---------------Thursday, October 8, 1998
BSERVER 
WALKING BY THEIR 
Non-Catholic students find alternative 
By Laura Rompf Scene Writer 

When one thinks of the University of Notre Dame, certain words come to mind -academies, legacy, and of eoursc, football. Another term asso­ciated with Notre Dame is Catholie. The University was founded on Catholic ideals and beliefs and to try and separate the two would be impossible. 
Ilowever, this leaves one unanswered problem: What is done to make non-Catholic students feel incorporatr.d into the University? 
There are many programs offered on campus that are non-denominational and are designed to incorporate non-Catholics. However, no other reli­gious services are offered on campus and Campus Ministry has tried to supplement this. 
"Over the summer, Campus Ministry sent out a survey to all freshman. graduate and off-campus students. They responded that they would like to attend other churches and synagogues in the vicinity," said Priscilla Wong, Assistant Director for Administration at Campus Ministry. 
Thus, we compiled a list of all these churehes and synagogues, so that, hopefully, these students can find a church they are comfortable with ­one of their own faith and tradition." 
This list is now available from Campus Ministry and includes the service times, plus whether or not the church provides transportation. This list is updated yearly, and is one way Notre Dame tried to aid non-Catholic students. 
"On campus, we do not have worship opportuni­ties for other denominations because there are too many to do well and effectively. We hope this list helps non-Catholic students to find worship ser­vice that suits their faith," said Wong. 
Notre Dame offers other programs that are non­denominational. "We have Bible Study and Prayer Groups· that has always been inter-faith," said Wong. 
The Bible Studies are open to all stud'ents and are held 7-8:30 p.m. in room 114 of Bond Hall. Their purpose is to "build on the rieh tradition of Christian eommunities and families which contin­ue to find eomfort, guidance and values in the Books of the Bib.le," states a pamphlet given out by Campus Ministry. 
The Prayer Groups allow many students to come together to share faith experienees and gain spiri­tual support. For some students, this is a new form of prayer whieh has been found rewarding and enriching. 
For more information eoneerning the Prayer Groups, eall Father AI D'Alonzo. 
Another way Notre Dame's Campus Ministry, tries to give non-Catholic students a way to enrich their faith is through retreats. 
"All retreat opportunities arc welcoming and open to all faiths," said Wong. "In fact, many of the retreat leaders are non-Catholic." 
' ITHINK NOTRE DAME MAKES ENOUGH OF AN 
EFFORT TO PROVIDE PROGRAMS FOR NON­
CATHOLICS. IF I NEED AN OUTLET FOR 
RELIGIOUS ACTIVITY, I KNOW I CAN FIND ONE.' 
NINA VAVGl/N FRESl/MAN 

Two new programs will also help non-Catholic students to enrieh their faith. 
"The recently started Emmaus Program help set up small Christian faith communities. and the members certainly do not have to be Catholic," said Wong. 
Another new project is Wednesday Night Prayer service that will start next semester on January 20, 1999. 
"We are starting a new initiative 'Night Prayer' that will take place on Wednesday nights at 10 
p.m. in the Breen-Phillips chapel," said Karen Kirner, Night Prayer organizer, and Assistant Organist of Campus Ministry. 
"The services last no longer than 30 minutes and will have a candle light atmosphere, a resi­dence choir, prayer, hymn singing and instrumen­talists. Students will pick a theme for the evening, and we hope this is a quiet way for students to end their day if they are stressed out and want to spend time in prayer and praise," said Kirner. 
"We welcome non-Catholic students and hop11 they will see this as a place where they can go to worship and praise," she added. 
Do all these programs actually help non-Catholic students feel included? When asked, many of them do not feel out casted or not ineluded beeause they are not Catholic. 
"! do not at all feel excluded because I·am not Catholic," said freshman Becky Varnum. "The only time I feel left out is when a lot of people go to mass and I am seeluded. Sometimes I wish there were other serviees on campus I could attend." 
Varnum also defended the Catholicism of the University. 
"[ don't believe Notre Dame needs to make any changes. People come here knowing it is a Catholic institution, and you get what you Pxpr.ct," she said. 
Some students say being non-Catholie does eause uneasy feeling at times. 
"I feel a little awkward living in such a Catholie dorm," said freshman Nina Vaughn. "But it's my personal choice whether I want to take advantage of opportunities, and there is no discrimination if I chose to participate." 
"I think Notre Dame makes enough of an effort to provide programs for non-Catholics," continues Vaughn. "If I need an outlet for religious activity, I know I can find one." 
It seems, then. that although Notre. Dame does not offer non-Catholic em-campus worship ser­vices, there are aetivities one can participate in to enrich their faith while in college. 
"I just recently diseovered that Georgetown is a Catholie school," said Varnum. "llowever, this mistake would never be made with Notre Dame beeause it prides itself on its Catholie heritage. Before I even came here, I knew the emphasis would be placed on Catholicism." 
CHURCHES AND SYNAGOGUES 
in the vicintiy of the University of Notre Dame 
Baptist Grace Baptist Phone: 272-2040 Sunday Worship: 10:30 a.m. Transportation: church will try to accommodate 
Espiscopal Cathedral of St. James Phone: 232-4837 Sunday Worship: 8 a.m., 10:1 5 a.m. 
6 p.m. Transportation: provided call by Sp.m. Fri. 
Lutheran Christ the King Phone: 272-4306 Sunday Worship: 9:45 a.m. Transportation: provided 
call by 3p.m. Fri. 
Methodist Clay United Methodist Phone: 272-8068 
Sunday Worship: 8:30 a.m., 9:45 a.m. 11 a.m. Transportation: provided call church 
Jewish Sinai Synagogue Phone: 234-8584 Worship: Fri., 6 p.m. 
Sat. 9 a.m. Transportation: none 
Presbyterian 
First Presbyterian 
Phone: 234-41 59 Sunday Worship: 8:45a.m., 
10:45 a.m. 

Transportation: provided call in advance 
A complete list of churches and synagogues of many faiths is available at Campus Ministry. 
'I 


OTHE

Thursday, October H. 1998 page 15
BSERVER 

OWN FAITH 
ys to practice religion. 


• SCENE THROUGH OUR EVES 
The Collegiate Guide to Good Manners 
By MIKE VANEGAS Assiscam Scene Editor 
The eollegfl environment is a rude awakfHJing on almost every front of one's lifo. Higher class expecta­tions lead to sleepless nights, caffeine-soaked mornings and overall bad behavior. This of course breeds the poor etiquette and bad manners that llood most collng<l campuses, including ours. 
It is amazing how disappointed I was when I started collngn two ynars ago after living with a cloan bed­room, a clean mouth and a polite demeanor for 17 years. But now is the lime to get the word out that good behavior does exist. 
Tho first arena for this lesson is the dorm room. This will greatly improve any sore spots that have been cre­ated with a roommate. 
First of all, one should take a shower every morning, and usually every evening or night. It is understand­able that one might only get one shower a day because of a busy schedule, but two should be the goal. And for those overachievers out there, 24 hours is enough time to take three or four showers. But one is--the minimum. By the way, washing one's face and slapping on a layer of deodorant is not a qualified shower. 
Another tip for the college student is to throw stuff away. In particular, one should trash any uneaten food .... that will not be eaten at all. This includes the leftover grab 'n' go food such as hard cookies or spoiled milk. This is also a helper when it comes to t·efrigerator cleanliness. 
For morality's sake, all cans should be eliminated the morning after they were emptied. This not only will get rid of that unpleasant smell, but it will also help you forget that previous night. 
The next step in creating a friendly college environ­ment is word substitution. This is mainly directed to those people who can not seem to finish a sentence with out the obligatory four-letter word. 
Take a look at this thesaurus for dean language: 
Four-letter word #1: shoot, crap, poo-poo, geez 
Four-letter word #2: fudge, fiddle-faddle, make love, do it 
Four-letter word #3: (this one is moro aecnptable in its true form) darn, dang; in an extended form, one can use: goshdarnit, dangit, well golly gee willickers 
Five-letter word #1: witch. gun (as in son-of-a-gun), female dog 
This is a good start to cleaning up the air waves of our college campus. If all else fails. one can always say exactly the opposite of the intention of their profanity, but add a 'not.' For example, one can say "You're not a nice person who can not go to heaven" or "That's a bunch of really good information that did not emanate from a bull." Take your choice. You can even make a game out of it! 
Or you can simply follow the old adage, "If you don't have anything nice to say don't say anything at all." But we're in college now, so that's really no fun. 
The final step to a good relationship with humanity deals with everyday interpersonal relations. 
Do not trip people. Do not laugh at people for no good reason. Do not spit on people. Do not punch a guy in the faee because he looks at you tho wrong way. And do not look at people the wrong way. 
One last piece of advice: Try not to take people Sl'ri­ously when they tell you how to live your lil'e. In fact, if someone does try to tell you how to live your lifn. swear at them with a lot of four-letter words. Then trip them. spit on thPm, punch them and don't showor l'or two days. That will make life a lot easier for everyone. 
-

The views expressed in Scene Through Our Eyes aN' .those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
', 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 8, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALl PLAYOFFS 
.... Padres' Rivera steps Knoblauch defends actions 
Associated Press 

baseman said. "Is he allowed to run on 
grass?" 
NEW YORK Actually, the answer is yes. According to
into playoff spotlight 
Associated Press 
ATL-\NTA 

tntil \\'edm'sday night Ruben Rin'ra was bt>st kn0\\"11 as Tonv Gwynn's lau•-inning replace·­ment and mw of the guys who joined the San Diego Padres in tlw Hideki lrabu deal. 
Tht>n the light-hitting rookie ust>d somp brazen baserunning to manufacturE' a kry run in the Padrrs' 3-2. 10-inning win over thr Atlanta Braves in the opener of the NL championship series. 
Yrs. it was Ken Caminiti's homer off Kerry Ligtenberg that won it. But the Padres' wouldn't have gotten to extra innings \Yithout Rivera. 
The 24-vear-old outfielder was playing only because Greg Vaughn strained his left quadri­ceps in the fifth inning. Rivera, who hit just .209 in the regular season with 52 strikeouts. got his first playoff hit in seven at­bats \vhrn he doubled with the score 1-all. The leadoff drive in the eighth chased 17 -game win­ner John Smoltz. 
Ken Caminiti lifted a f1y ball off John Rocker to center field. and Rivera slid into third base headfirst, just as a great throw from Andruw Jones arrived. Rivera probably would have been out had Chipper Jones held the tag, but he didn't. Rivera even overslid, but got back safely. 
Padres division series hero 
Jim Leyritz hit a chopper that 
reliever Dennis Martinez fielded. 
but his soft throw to first tailed 
away from Andres Galarraga, 
and the first baseman came off 
the bag. 
Rivera hesitated, took a step back toward third. then broke for home, sliding across head­first as G a larraga's throw skipped a\\;ay from catcher Javy Lopez. 
Galarraga was hit with a field­ing E'ITOr and throwing error on the play. 
Rivera wowed with his defense in spring training. then was recalled from Triple-A Las Vegas on May 16 when James Mouton went on the disabled list. 
Rivera, a first cousin of New York Yankees reliever Mariano Rivera, was acquired in the six­player trade that sent Irabu to the Yankees on April 22, 1997. The Padres had obtained Irabu's rights from his Japanese team, Chiba Lotte, but Irabu refused to negotiate with the Padres. 
So Irabu fulfilled his wish to be a Yankee and Rivera joined the Padres. During trade talks with Seattle this summer, the Mariners wanted Rivera in a proposed deal for Randy Johnson that also would have involved San Diego pitcher Joey Hamilton, but the Padres wouldn't part with the prized outfielder. 
Rivera often comes in late in games for Gwynn, who has been bothered by injuries this year. He's also made 44 starts in the outfield. 
Vaughn, who hit a club-record 50 homers this season, pulled up between first and second after right fielder Michael Tucker made a spectacular catch of his fly ball just before running into the wall in right. 
Vaughn apparently hurt him­self running after Tucker's dou­ble to left in the third. The ball bounced off the wall and Vaughn bobbled it before throw­ing it in. 
Chuck Knoblauch has made the play a thou-umpiring crew chief Jim Evans, a runner can sand times, racing over from second base to take any route he pleases to the base. And cover first on a sacrifice. It never turned out because the base is in fair territory, he has to quite this way before. be in fair territory to reach it. 
Knoblauch was a little bewildered and a lit-So don't blame Fryman for this. tie angry after being involved Meanwhile, Knoblauch in the game-turning goof that ignored the baseball as pineh helped Cleveland score the runner Enrique Wilson eir­tiebreaking run in eled the bases and Fryman Wednesday's 4-1 victory over 'IT WAS A BAD CALL. IF I wound up at third. the New York Yankees in "J didn't know where the
COULD DO IT ALL OVER
Game 2 of the American ball was," Knoblauch repeat-League championship series. AGAIN, I'D DO IT THE SAME ed over and over. "It was a 
Travis Fryman dropped the WAY.' bad call. If I could do it all bunt and Knoblauch was cov-again, I'd do it the same ering first when Tino way." Martinez's throw struck the CHUCK KNOBLAUCH That wouldn't please man-runner in the back and YANKEES' SECOND BASEMAN ager Joe Torre, who said that 
glanced about 30 feet away. although the call was wrong, Instead of going after the ball, so was his second baseman. Knoblauch started howling at "He was yelling at thf~ the umpire, complaining that umpire and you can't do that," Torre said. Fryman had interfered with the throw by run-"You've got to make the play and then go back 
ning in fair territory.  and argue with the umpire. But I think he was  
"He was running  on  grass," the second just shocked that they didn't mah the eall."  
the rules issued by the Merhige was clearly exasper­ 
office dealing ated with the Yankees, and  
spqt,;~ allQtted other members of baseball's  
pl\ the field before brass said the team was rou­ 
tinely·ignoring directives from  
both the league and the com­ 
missioner's office.  
The Baseball Writers  
Association of America sent  
Beeston a letter Wednesday  
protesting the team's conduct.  
Beeston's rules were  
prompted by the Florida  
Marlins' refusal to come to the  
interview room after the sev­ 
enth game of the World Series  
last year, .During meetings  
with· groups of reporters last  
winter, be promised teams  
would be fined if they violated  
therules.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline lor next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. · 
NOTICES 

THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon-Midnight When you need copies, we're open! 
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties 
Now Hiring NEW RESTAURANT/ WINE BAR The Vine 122 S Michigan St South Bend, IN (next to the Football Hall of Fame) Know a little about wine? Want to learn a lot about wine? Come apply as a server or bar­tender. Want to join an exciting new business and be a part of our team? Please apply within for all positions: servers, bartenders, cooks & bussers. Mon-Fri 9 to 5. Now interviewing. 
FOR RENT 
1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
THE PRIMROSE PATH FOR SALE. LIVE PH ISH CDS! NO Football Tickets Needed. BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCATED Bed box set not available in AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS U.S. call pete at 251-0178. HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL NO FOOTBALL TIX WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC 91 GEO Metro. 57K on engine/ FOR SALE INN,FULL ELEGANT BREAK-tranny! New paint, frt brakes, AM 232-2378 FASTS.4 GUEST rotors, tuneup, cleaning.$3000. PM 288-2726 ROOMS,A!C,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS John: 289-7992W, REQUIRED.$99.00 Call 616-695-291-4132H Need LSU tix 6321 289-2918 
TICKETS 
Always buying and selling N D foot-
FOR SALE I 
ball tickets. 289-8048
I 

I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME PREPAID PHONE CARDS GAMES.272-6306 Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU 198 MIN. $20 tickets. Please call908-722-7901. 
Need 2 Baylor GAs ASAP Top Dollar 631 -6750 
PERSONAL 

Going to Chile next semester! Take advantage of the only Notre Dame-sponsored study abroad seminars on social justice, Maryknoll and I LADES! Applications (due Oct. 14) available in esc. 
CALL 258-4805 
TICKETMART Inc NO MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S-DRUMMER WANTED to work on Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with BUY-SELL-TRADE PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568 professional project. Work will be orthopedic mattress set and deluxe Notre Dame Football Tickets x2242 published on a CD in early '99. frame. New, never used,still in plas-258-1111 Serious musicians only, please. tic.$225 219-862-2082 No student tickets please 2 for Army & Baylor Contact Mike at 243-1696 
$339!Panama City Room With Kitchen, 7 Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
WANTED 

BABYSITIER NEEDED AFTER­NOONS-Christian family/Granger/near UP mall/11 year old/Time for studying/must have car/no smoking/Can be flexi­ble with time/days.$5.00/hr/243­1228 after 6 That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800­418-9487. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE 
TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153. 
JVC VHS camcorder with LCD color monitor. Hardly used.$45\l obo 284-4127 
88 ESCORT, LOW MILEAGE Good Condition. $1200 
233-7297 After 6PM 
88 Honda Civic, blue, one owner, good condition, all dealer mainte­nance, 113,000 miles. $2800 or best offer. Call 273 0928 (evenings or leave message) FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
NO Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 
NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 call Steve@ 901-763-7100, x4302 
FOR SALE:4 ARMY TIX-CALL ((((((((( (516)269-3426 ASAP-BEST OFFER 
Need 2 Baylor GAs. Please call212-636-7472. 
THE OBSERVER will not be pub­lished during fall break so if you have Army tix to sell, put your clas­sified ad in before Friday, Oct. 16. 
..ATIENTION LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING STUDENTS.. Original student group will hold support group meet­ing TONIGHT Call info line for details 236-9661 . 
Retired nurse will babysit. $3/hr. Own car, refs. 289-0332. 
ODYSSEY OF THE MIND Interested? Call Aubree 
@ 4-3873 before fall break 
Still one more 

Thursday, October 8, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
.. 

Calendar of Events 
Women's Choir Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, October 9-10, Five Pines 
Freshman Retreat #18 
Friday-Saturday, October 9-10, St. Joe Hall 
for Residents of Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lewis, McGlinn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin, Zahm 
NDE #52 Retreat 
Friday-Sunday, October 9-11, 3:00-7:00 pm, Fatima Retreat House 
Commissioning Rite for Liturgical Ministers at all Masses 
Saturday-Sunday, October110~11, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Campus Bible Study 

Tuesday, October 13, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
TWENTY-SEVENTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, October 10 Mass 
5:00p.m. Rev. Thomas E. Blantz, C.S.C. 
Sunday,October 11 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David J. Scheidler, C.S.C. 
Vespers: 
7:15p.m. Rev. Timothy Rtzgerald, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading  2 Kings 5:14-17  
2nd Reading  2 Timothy 2:8-13  
Gospel  Luke 17:11-19  

Hey, You Seniors: It's Not Over Yet! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 

This missive, though quite obviously directed to our seniors, welcomes the interest of all who have read thus far. It is intended to appeal primarily, how­ever, to those whose days among us are numbered, but, please God, has some­thing to say to us all. During each mid-semester break, we tend to take stock and marvel at how quickly the semester has gone. I have little doubt that most of you seniors are gasping in horror at the speed with which these days, not only this semester but throughout your years here, have passed. My intention is to assure you, as I intended to in the title, that it's not over yet! 

There is more time than you think as long as you choose to use it well. The danger in these days is that you might think that it's too late to try something new; or, especially for you off-campus folks, too late to get involved in some­thing on campus that you haven't up to now. The great danger for all of you is that you might deny yourself an opportunity to enter into some of the experi­ences that make this place unique in all the world. Oh, I know, you've heard it all before, but the fact of the matter is there's a difference between hearing and lis­tening, between knowing and experiencing. 
Some of the most important experiences with which Notre Dame gradu­ates walk away from this place happen in the waning days of their senior year. Some of them happen in the classroom, in moments of discovery and of genuine enlightenment. Some happen among friends as you begin to realize the signifi­cance of the relationships you've formed here and the fleeting opportunities that you may have with them. Some happen because we dare to step on out of the ordinary course of our established routine and take on the extraordinary. 
As to what that is, I suspect you would get a different answer depending on who you ask, and since this is my column, you're getting my answer! The area of life at this university that deeply engages a good portion of our campus, though not nearly all, are those opportunities we have to pray, retreat and serve together. The time has come for many of you to decide who you are and who you want to become. The end of one's college career engenders a deep reflection on just what matters most. We are who we are, however, in large part, because of the choices we make: for classes; for friends; for service; for worship and prayer; for employment; and, ultimately, for vocation. 
It's not too late to begin asking questions and considering options. It's not too late to get involved in experiences through Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns which could ultimately affect the direction of your life, and certainly your character. It would be a great shame if we walked away from this place without getting at the most important questions of life. The opportunities are all around us; the choice is ours. Not only because such a choice would most assuredly enhance your days here, but because of its potential to greatly trans­form the life that you will live beyond this place. 
Please God, that which you have the opportunity to engage in here, will inform the deepest questions of faith and of justice and of social responsibility. Please God, the opportunities that you have and will yet experience here will enlighten your discernment over som e of the most important decisions of your young lives. I only encourage you to do two things: first, join us in the respective missions of Campus Ministry and of the Center for Social Concerns. There are ample opportunities to get involved even now, whether it be in areas of local ser­vice, or the urban plunge, or the Appalachian, Washington or migrant worker seminars through the Center for Social Concerns; or through Campus Ministry and the areas of faith and community through hall Masses, bible studies, EMMAUS small faith sharing groups, retreats such as the NDE, or the two upcoming Senior Retreats in the spring semester. It's not over yet. 
The second thing that I would encourage you to do is to throw wide the possibilities for your future. As you discern the next year or two of your life, you have the luxury of considering opportunities that will, later, probably not be available to you. The opportunities for a year or two of service are many. You will find many valuble resources on this campus: the Center for Social Concerns, the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE), Holy Cross Associates, and even Campus Ministry which will again offer a year-long internship for a recent Notre Dame graduate. Even beyond a' year of service, this is the time for those of you who have long considered, if oniy casually, religious life or priesthood to consid­er a year to try it out and to enter into structured discernment about one of the most important decisions of your life. 
For all of you, whether you choose to step outside of the normal course or not, it is the time to enage in conversation with trusted friends and mentors, to pray, and to revel in the opportunities that this place and these days afford you. So that when you are long beyond these days you can be confident that you took full advantage of all the opportunities that Our Lady's University had to offer. 
CJ 
a 
~ 
~ ~ 
b 
~ ~ ~ ~ 
~ 
a 
~ 
~ 
• • • 

0MPUS MINISTRY 
-
, I •
I' 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 8, 1998 
• NATIONAL lEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Caminiti's lOth inning blast powers Padres past Braves 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA This time, the San Diego Padres saved Trevor Hoffman. 
Ken Caminiti hit a solo home run in the 1Oth inning and the Padres over­came a rare lapse by baseball's premier closer to beat the Atlanta Braves 3-2 Wednesday night in a rain-delayed Game 1 of the NL championship series. 
On an evening when daring running sent the game into extra innings, Caminiti trotted around the bases after connecting with one out in the 1Oth off Kerry Ligtenberg. 
It was the fourth postseason homer of Caminiti's career. and helped him atone for failing to come up with a key throw that let the Braves tie it. 
Ruben Rivera's double and dash home on Jim Leyritz's dribbler gave the Padres a 2-1 lead in the eighth. But in the ninth. Hoffman, who converted 53 of 54 save chances this season, could not protect the edge and gave up Andruw Jones' tying sacrifice fly. 
In fact. Hoffman could not even close out the game. With two outs in the 10th, he walked pitcher Tom Glavine ­pinch-hitting because the Braves ran out of position players -and Donne Wall relieved. 
Wall, who had only one save this sea­son, walked Chipper Jones before retir­ing Andres Galarraga on a long fly to center field. 
Ryan Klesko walked with one out in the Atlanta ninth and surprisingly tried to take third on Javy Lopez's single to left. 
Rivera's throw beat him. but Caminiti 
did not catch the throw and Klesko ­
his nose bloodied from colliding with 
Caminiti's shoulder-was safe. 
Andruw Jones, whose home run gave Atlanta an early 1-0 lead, swung away on a 3-0 pitch and hit a sacrifice fly. 
Hoffman pitched two innings and 
wound up with the win. The game ended at 1:43 a.m., pushed back by a two hour. one minute rain delay at the start 
The win was a good omen for the underdog Padres. The last five teams to win the opener of the NLCS have gone on to the World Series. 
San Diego sustained a loss, however, when 50-homer man Greg Vaughn limped off in the fifth inning because of a strained left quadriceps. His status was day-to-day, and Rivera replaced him. 
Game 2 will be Thursday night, with Braves nemesis Kevin Brown pitching against Glavine. Last fall, Brown beat Atlanta twice at Turner Field in the NLCS for Florida. 
Steady rain, lightning and thunder threatened to cause tht( first rainout in the two-year history of Turner Field. After a delay of 2 hours, 1 minute, the field was ready and the game began, though it started raining lightly in the last two innings. 
The bad weather might have helped hold the crowd down to 42,117 -about 9,000 short of a sellout and the smallest in Atlanta postseason history. But even before the storm came, the game was not expected to be sold out. 
Padres starter Andy Ashby and Atlanta ace John Smoltz dueled evenly into the seventh with the game tied at 1. 
Rivera, usually Tony Gwynn's late replacement, opened the eighth with a double off Smoltz. Caminiti followed with a fly to medium right-center, and Rivera tagged up and tested Andruw Jones' strong arm. 
Rivera's head-first slide barely beat the throw, though his momentum car­ried him a couple of feet off the bag. But third baseman Chipper Jones was busy raising his glove to show the umpire that he'd made the tag, and Rivera scram­bled back to safety. 
That brought up pinch-hitter Leyritz, whose six postseason home runs includ-

ed three in the first-round win over Houston. 
Leyritz tapped a ball to the right of Dennis Martinez, and the reliever ran to field it. Martinez looked at Rivera, but elected to throw to first baseman Galarraga. 
Rivera immediately broke home and again slid in headfirst, beating Galarraga's wide throw. Galarraga was charged with a double error, for leaving the bag early and his bad throw. 
Gwynn picked on a familiar victim for an RBI single that made it 1-all in the fifth. A leadoff single by Carlos Hernandez, a sacrifice by Ashby and a costly two-out walk to Quilvio Veras brought up Gwynn, and the eight-time NL batting champion lined the first pitch to left field. 
For Gwynn, it was his second hit of the night and he's now 30-for-65 {.455) life­time against Smoltz. 
Atlanta averted even bigger trouble, though, when right fielder Michael Tucker followed by making the defen­sive play of the game, a backhanded, leaping catch as he ran into the fence on Vaughn's drive. 
Atlanta went ahead in the third when Andruw Jones led off with his fourth career home run in postseason play. 
The Notre Dame College of Business and the Department of Marketing Invite you to attend the O'Brien-Smith Lecture Series Featuring 

PI'Ofessor of Marketing, Goeffery T. Boisi Professor, and Director for· the Huntsman Center· for Global Competition and Innovation at the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. 
"Aligning the Organization to the Market'' 
Thursday, October 8, 1998 -6:30 PM College of Business Administration, Room 162 
In addition to his t•ole as professm·, Dr. Day has been auonsultant to numerous Fortune 500 uomtmnies. lie pt·esently serves on seven editm·ial boards and has authm·ed twelve books in the area of marketing and strategiu management. His most r·euent book, Wharton on Dynamic Competitive Strateay (jointly with David Reibstein), was published inl997. It is with gr·eat pleasure that we weluome George Day to Notre Dame. 
All Are Welcome! ~'or more information mil (219) 631-3277 
.--------------------------------------­Thursday, October 8, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
Bears yet to find remedy for third-quarter blues 
Associated Press Detroit Lions' Stephen Boyd. seem to find a way to beat 
The ball popped free, a Lions them. 
LAKE FOHEST, Ill. player scooped it up and the "It's a good point to bring
Alonzo Mayes tucked the ball streak continued. up, because we are strug­under his arm. turned upfield Those third-quarter blues. gling," center Caseyand ran straight into the The Chicago Bears just can't Wiegmann said. "We're mak-
Saint: ~ary~s College Notre Da.m_e 
26TH ANNUAL 
LONDON SUMMER 
PROGRAM 
MAY 19TH -JUNE 18TH, 1999 

Professor David Stefancic  Professor Tom Parisi  
54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347  37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152  
Saint Mary:s College  ~..  ".;.  -­ Saint Mary's College  
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  Notre Dame, Indiana 46556  
(219) 284-4462  (219) 284-4529  
e-mail: dstefanc(a)saintmarys.edu  e-mail: tparisi@saintmarys.edu  

Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4716 
ing crucial mistakes in the 
third quarter, a lot of fumbles. 
We've just got to clean that up. 
It's not us not moving the ball, 
it's just us making mistakes." 
Lots of them. Chicago (1-4) 
has yet to score in the third 
quarter this season. In the 
Bears' last 10 games, they 
have been outscored 95-0 in 
the third quarter. 
They lost their first four games of this season despite leading at halftime of each game. 
"I would like to believe it's a huge coincidence," tackle Andy Heck said. "Some atten­tion needs to be paid to it, but I don't think much more than. 'Hey, when you come out at halftime, make sure you're ready to go,' which we are. I haven't seen anybody not ready to go." 
So what's the problem'? No one's quite sure. It isn't lack of effort, and there's no truth to the rumor the Bears are drink­ing some strange flavor of Gatorade at halftime. One player suggested they just stay out on the field at the half and pretend the second quarter is really, really long. 
Whatever the reason, the third quarter has been trou­blesome for both the offense and the defense. The offense has stopped its own drives with fumbles and no gains, while the defense has given up big plays. 
Against the Lions last week­end, the offense fumbled twice in the third quarter, leading to two scores. The defense gave up a total of 17 points. 
"It was like, what the heck are we doing? This thing just got away," fullback Ty Hallock said. "To our credit, we worked real hard ... and we got a win last week that we desperately Iweded. Hopefully that will carry over into the next few games." 
The Bears followed up one of their worst quarters this sea­son with one of their best. After giving up the two fum­bles and 17 points, Chicago rebounded and scored three straight touchdowns for the 31-27 victory. its first of the season. 
So much for the theory the Bears were making the wrong adjustments. 
"There's no halftime, as we all know, between the third and the fourth quarter,'' coach Dave Wannstedt said. "We just made plays in the fourth quar­ter. What can you say? And we didn't in the third." 
The Bears hope last week­end's win will help solve their third-quarter problems. They've broken their streak of bad luck, so now maybe every­thing else will fall into place. 
And if the problems persist? That depends on if they win or lose. 
"The reality of it is that regardless of any circum­stances, it really doesn't mat­ter about any individual quar­ter," Hallock said. "It's the end result." 
Wiegmann agreed. 

"We can have zeros all year long," he said. "If we still get a ·w· out of it, that's all that matters to us." 
Please Recyle the Observer 
JJ 
o:' 
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS CAREER FAIR THURSDAY, OCTOBER 8 
9:30 AM -4:00 PM 
CENTER OF CONTINUING EDUCATION -LOWER LEVEL 
WE WANTED TO GET A HEAD START ON INTRODUCING OURSELVES AT THE CAREER FAIR. 
Founded by five college students in 1989, the company has grown to more than 500 employees by hiring graduates from the best schools in the country. We're revolutionizing the way products are bought and sold for Fortune 500 companies such as Hewlett-Packard, Chrysler, Boeing, AT&T and Ernest and Julio Gallo. 
We are looking for top candidates from around the country to join our re-engineering revolution. Candidates should be extremely aggressive and creative. Strong communication and presentation skills are required along with the desire for continuous development. We are looking for bright and tal­ented people from varied backgrounds. Only the best need apply. For more information, check out our website at www.trilogy.com. 
Meet us at the Career Fair, where interviewers wlU be available for one-on-one conversations. For more infor­mation, contact anne.letzerlch@trllogy.com. 
TRILOGY 
6034 West Courtyard Drive 
-
Austin, Texas 78730 USA 
t 512.425.3400 f 512.685.3960 
e recruiting@trilogy.com 
www. trilogy.cornjrecruiting 
Trilogy is an equal opportunity employer 
r 

1 I 
l 0 

page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Thusday, October 8, 1998 
• AMERICAN lEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Knoblauch miscue ignites Indian rally, ties series 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Chuck Knoblauch blew his cool after the umpires botched a call. and the Cleveland Indians escaprd Yankee Stadium with a split. 
Baseball doesn't get much more bizarre than this. Then again. there's nothing like Yankee Stadium in October to magnify every mishap. 
"At the end. we caught a break and made the most of that opportunity," Indians man­ager Mike Hargrove said Wednesday after Cleveland's wild 4-1, 12-inning win over New York evened the AL cham­pionship series at one game apiece. 
The umpires failed to call Travis Fryman out for interfer­ing with Tino Martinez's throw as he ran inside the line on his bunt attempt, and Enrique Wilson broke a 1-all tie by scor­ing all the way from first base as Knoblauch stood at the bag pointing and arguing, instead of picking up the ball. 
Did the umpires make the right call? Crew chief Jim Evans said it's all a matter of interpre­tation. 
"The fact that he was literally on the base or half a step from the base, he has the right to be in that position," said Evans, who watched the play from right field. "Is it a throw that would have retired him, and how close is he to the base? He has the right to be in fair terri­tory that close to the base." 
That's different than section 

7.09 (k) of the Official Playing Rules, which states: "A runner is required to have both feet within the 3-foot lane or on the lines marking the lane." 
Fryman clearly was in fair territory, not the lane on the foul side, during his entire route from the plate to first. 
"I think the call could have gone either way," Evans said. 
The play will surely be debat­ed, just like the Jeffrey Maier home run in 1996. That's when the Yankees snatched a win from Baltimore when the 12­year-old Maier caught a Derek Jeter fly before right fielder Tony Tarasco could get it, creat­ing a home run. 
This time, it went against the Yankees. "It was so blatant. I don't 
.... know what to say. It was a terri­ble call," Yankees manager Joe Torre said. "There was no line ever touched." Knoblauch stood at first base with the ball on the ground behind him. Pointing at the bag while Wilson rounded second. Pointing and arguing while Wilson went to third. Still point­ing and arguing as he started to head home. "I don't feel like I didn't play the ball out. I didn't know where it was," Knoblauch said. ''I'm pretty shocked.... I was kind of dumbfounded. The guy's running right at me, and it seemed to me he was running out of the baseline." 
Forget about domination, and put revenge on hold -plays like this can turn a series around. 
"We were able to get out of here 1-1 and go back for three games at home," said Paul Shuey, one of the five Cleveland pitchers who combined for 5 1-3 innings of shutout relief. "We're not going to be scared to come back here." 
After an off day. the series resumes Friday night at .Jacobs Field in Cleveland. with Andy Pettitte (16-11) pitching for New York against Bartolo Colon (14­
9). 
Torre clearly was disappoint­ed in Knoblauch, who demand­ed Minnesota trade him last winter so he could play for a winner. 
"I watched the replay before I~. came in here, and he was·· yelling at the umpire, and you can't do that," the manager said. "You have got to make the play and then go back and argue with the umpire. But I think he was just shocked that they didn't make the call." 
For much of the afternoon and evening, it was a sparkling pitcher's duel between Cleveland's Charles Nagy and David Cone. 
David .Justice put the Indians ahead with a fourth-inning homer off Cone -the first time the Yankees trailed this postsea­son -but Scott Brosius' RBI double tied the score in the sev­enth and chased Nagy, who had been working on a four-hit shutout. 
Cleveland, blown out 7-2 in Game 1 -had lost a postseason opener for the eighth straight time. Yet, the Indians have excelled in comebacks, fighting their way into the World Series twice in the past three years. 
The Yankees, who had won their last four postseason games and11 in a row overall, were livid. Torre was especially angry at John Shulock, the first-base umpire, and Ted Hendry, the plate umpire. 
"The ball-strike stuff stunk 
tonight, but that stunk for both 
sides," he said. "I have a bunch 
of pitches in my pocket that -I 
don't think you could have 
reached a lot of those pitches 
with bamboo sticks." 
Jim Thome had singled off Jeff 
Nelson, the eventual loser, lead­
ing off the 12th, Cleveland's first 
runner since Omar Vizquel 
tripled with one out in the 
eighth. 
Wilson ran for Thome, and 
Fryman sent a bunt up the first­
base line to Martinez. 
"I didn't have much room to 
really work with," Martinez 
said. "The ball was bunted right 
next to the line. I was trying to 
sneak it in there." 
Knoblauch had come over to 
take the throw and the ball 
struck Fryman, clearly running 
in fair territory. in the back. 
Wilson kept going, nearly trip­
ping himself up as he headed 
home with gigantic strides. 
He sprawled into the plate 
with the go-ahead run just 
ahead of Jorge Posada's tag. 
"I thought we'd have to get a 
wheel-barrow out there for a 
while," Hargrove said. "I 
thought they made the right 
call. If I were on the other side, I 
Championship Series 
-
Game 3 Friday, October 9 New York at Cleveland 
1 win 1 win 
Pettite Colon
vs.
(16-11) ( 14-9) 

... 
,· 

might have a different opinion." Tino, I tried to straighten out a 
Fryman had the worst view in little bit," Fryman said. the ballpark. Four batters la~er. Kenny "I started out inside the line, Lofton hit a two-run single off and when I knew I could get by Graeme Lloyd, and the Indians 

eould finally relax. 

Both teams had squandered opportunities. New York strand­ed 10 runners and Cleveland left seven. 

KRT Photo Yankees' second baseman Chuck Knoblauch, pictured here turning a double play, was involved in a contro­versial play that allowed Cleveland to score the game-winning run in the top of the twelfth inning. The Indians went on to beat New York 4-1 to knot the ALCS at 1-1 as the teams head to Cleveland for game three. 
r:'"'' 
i,j 
I 
I ~ 
it! 
I 
li I 
111 
I 
;m 
I 
I ~~ 
! !ii I 
I 
i 
#A 
I 
1M 
I 
•1 
I 
'i 
I 
I ·~ 
tJ 
I 
'J 
I 
i~ 
I 
& 
..~ .. 

·<t-st-*:'.g-,;;u-::·.,;--• -·:u-:t:.-w-:·.: -:·:-­
-·c-::tv., 
.,,j 

On-campus Interviews 
~C~lelsen BASESI 
ACNielsen BASES is the global leader in new product evaluation and sales forecasting. Most of the world's largest con­sumer packaged·goods companies rely on our marketing research and 
· consulting services to strengthen their chance for success in the.marketplace. 
ACNielsen BASES College Relations 50 E. River Center, Suite 1000 Covington, KY 41011 FAX: (606) 655-6293 E~MAIL: hr@bases.com 
Analytical, curioui, problem-tolver, 
independent, organized, flexible, team­
oriented. People with these qualities, 
regardless of academic background, 
are the foundation of our success. If 
these words describe you, and you're looking for an opporruniry to march, you'll want to consider a Marketing Research Analyst posicion with ACNielsen BASES. Our Cincinnati US Client Service office will be con­ducting an information session on Thursday, November 12th, 1998 in the Dooley Room, 7 ~9pm. On-cam­pus interviews will follow on November 13th. Please contact your career service office for further infor­marion on our campus visit and inter­VIew sign-ups. 
I 
'i 
I 
tl 
I 
jj 
I 
I #. i.d 
I 
0;\ 
I 
1'1 
I 
,y 
I 
tJ 
I 
I ') I 
;fj 
I I I 
.:1 

qual Opportunity Employe
www.bases.com 
..~~ 

:~.;.;;,W-·····'<-"i''-'''"'"-''.i..'·-···o-·•·..M, ;!M$:,. /-* ,)·,~ _,..-,,..·-~-·1>-""'-'''':::.: . -·w--···-.. '-•
'·i>:<: ;.;..,..,-:, ,;M >W:'-,;;ac;c ·-*~..4<--·~~~·-­
~,.#•..,•~v,,rot:. -·..,r,..,,,•~ . · , · , 
.r---.I 


Thursday, October 8, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
--------------------~~~==-=~===-----------------------------~~~ 

• NFL 
Mayes injured on punt return 
Associated Press 
<;HEEN B/\Y, Wis. 

!;nwn Bay l'aek,~rs nH:,~iv,~r l>nrrir.k Mayns will undnrgo an arth roseopie nxam to assnss damagP to knnn liga­nwnts hn injurPd on a punt. rPturn. 
Coach MikP llolmgrnn said tlw Pxam on Mayns' injurnd right. knnn will bn done Thursday. 
"Wn know tlwn•'s ligamnnt damagn," llolmgrnn said. "But hncausn thP situation is romplieatnd by thn fact 
I> n r r i c k p nw i o u s Iy ha d surg«~ry on thn ktwn in high school in I'JHH, wn'rn going to do a sropn in ordnr to makP a nwrP dnfinitivn diag­nosis." 
MayPs injurnd his knnn rPlurning a punt latP in Monday night"s :n-24 loss to tlw Minnnsota Vikings. 
liP was in for thP punt lw c a u s P r n g u I a r r n t u r n n r HoPI! l'rnston had muscln cramps. 
WhiiP MayPs is sidPiitwd, Bill SchroPdnr will fill in as tlw l'ackPrs' No.:~ n•cPivnr. 

+ Work in an internship +Study Public Affairs 
+ Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement 
Come to the informational meeting Thesday, October 13th 7:00p.m. 115 O'Shaughnessy 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold.l @nd.edu 
HOME OPENER 
SATURDAY& Oct. lOth 7:00pm vs. Western Michigan 
Autry quits NFL after being cut by Bears 
Assodated Press 
PHJW)ELPHIA 

Darnell Autry, who led Northwestern to the Rose Bowl in 1995 but never cut it in the NFL, quit football today to pursue an acting career. 
Autry, 22, was cut by the Chicago Bears on Aug. 24 and signndby the Eagles on Sept. 9. He never made it ofl' tho practice squad for Philadelphia, which is 0-5 heading into Sunday's game against winless Washington. 
"Darnell is interested in pursuing a film eareor," said his agnnt, Gary Wichard. "I think he's decided, rather than sit around and wait to get on the field, he wants to pursue his other lovn." 
Autry, who studied acting at Northwestern, was selected in the fourth round by the Bears after leaving Northwestern before his senior season -against the advice of coach Gary Barnett. l!e struggled as a rookie, ntshing for 319 yards on 1 1 2 carries in 12 games. 
Although he never made it in the NFL, Autry will be remem­bered for raising Northwestern to national prominence with the Wildcats' Rose Bowl appearance in 1995. Northw,~stern lost to Southern Cal, but Autry was a finalist for the Heisman Trophy. 
The Eagles signed him to the practice squad when running back Aaron Hayden was placed on injured reserve. Philadelphia signed fullback Mike Reed from the practice squad and added running back James Bostic to the practice squad to take Autry's place on the 53-man roster. 
Rc·lcd caught three passes lhr 31 yards in the prnsflason but was deactivated for the f'n·st five games. Bostic, 26, has been ham­pered by injuries after a stellar eareer at Auburn. 
Photo courte~y of Northwaetem Sport~ Information Darnell Autry never lived up to expectations following his career at Northwestern and has left the NFL to pursue an acting career. 

ro5es 
•D'-ily delivuy to cilmpu!< "St~.-~d~11f discow,t . 0 Locot~J ot'\ co~~e,.. of cdi5o~,· 
~~d J ..~.,wood 
•_,All ~oJo•• Ct'edit ~a···ds ·Cicc:e.pte.d ' 28~_-7551 '\ 
~ 
VARSITY SHOP
.._.._., 
} 
-
< 
-

page-22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 8, 1998 

Elway Upset with Panthers, Collins calls it quits 
Associated Press has yet to play a down in his one-plus sea­anything quitn like this." 
sons with the team, will be the baeku p. Collins has had his share of troubles thisreturns to CIIAHLOTTE. N.C. Collins attended the team's practice season, making him a frequent target of Krrry Collins' rocky stay with the Wednesday. when he was relegated to the criticism for Carolina's 0-4 start heading 
Carolina Panthers hit its biggest obstacle role of third-string quarterback. into Sunday's game at Dallas !3-2 ). 
vet Wednesday when hl~ voluntarily Beuerlein said it was hard to say how After leading the NFL with 21 intern~p­i·emovrd himself: from the troubled team's Collins' latest move would affect his future tions last season. when he also had tlw
practice 
Associated Press 
DENVER 

John Eh1 a\" ran off tlw prac­ticr liPid \\'rdnPsdav. exclaim­ing. "I madr it. I didn't hurt anything today ... 
For thP fourth straight 1\'PPk. tlw J)pm·pr Broncos werP as much l'OllCPrned about thP physiral rondition of their quartPrback as they wet·r about thP upcoming opponent. And for the second straight week. th!'re was good news at midWPPk. 
Elway practiced Wednesday 
and was list­ed as proba­ble for Sunday's game in Seattle. 
However. he also prac­ticed last 


\\'ednesdav Elway and reported improvement in his strained right hamstring, but on Thursday he developed sore­
ness in his lower back that lin­gered through the weekend. 
Elway didn't play in the 41-16 win over Philadelphia. 
In all, Elway, 38, has missed the last two games and parts of two previous games because of his injuries. 
''I've come a long way since Sunday," Elway said. "I'll try to practice and get back in the flow of things this week, but I also want to be real careful with it because it's not totally gone. I still feel it. I don't want to do anything to set myself back. 
"If I continue to make the 
strides that I've made, I'm hop­
ing to be able to go (Sunday)." 
Elway said his back was 
more of a concern than the 
hamstring. 
"It's the two-injury theory," he said with a smile. "You can only have one thing hurt at a time." 
In Elway's absence, veteran 
Bubby Brister has played well. 
Last week, he threw for four 
touchdowns, and he ranks first starting linPup. with tlw Panthers. lowest quarterback rating in the leaguP. 
"His llPart wasn't totally into what he "This is something that will play itself Collins has started slowly in tlw Panthers' was doing," roach Dom Capers said. "He out," Beuerlein said. "Whatever comes of new West Coast-style offense. said lw felt like he disappointed the team it will come of it, and we'll deal with it." He has completed 47 percent of his somewhat." Capers said he was unsure if or when passes and thrown for eight touchdowns. 
Capers, trying to lead the Panthers out Collins, who in 1995 became the Panthers' but he has also been intercepted six of a six-game slide, the longest losing first-ever draft choice, would feel comfort­times. He fumbled once and was intPr­slump in the three-plus years of the fran­able returning to the lineup. cepted twi(:e in Sunday's 51-2:~ loss to chise. said the quarterback walked into "I told him we'd revisit later on," Capers Atlanta. his office and said he wanted to be taken said. ''I'm sure we'll have communica­Taken with the 11f'th overall draft pick in out of the lineup. tions. whether it be tomorrow or later 1995, Collins had winning records as a 
"This was totally unexpected," Capers on." starter in his 11rst two seasons. lie guided said. Capers said he has always told his play­the 1996 Panthers to the NFC West titk 
While Capers did not rule out-the possi­ers that if they aren't totally committed to and a berth in the conference champi­bility of Collins returning to once again their jobs, they should come and tell him. onship game, both unprecedented accom­lead the team in the future. not everyone Until Wednesday, no one had ever taken plishments for second-year NFL expan­on the team appeared to share that view. him up on his request. sion teams. 
"He has quit on us. and he's jumped But Collins walked into his office around But his 1997 season began with his jaw ship." offensive lineman Frank Garcia said 8 a.m. and asked if he could speak with getting fractured by Uenvcr's Bill as the players left the team's headquar­Capers. Homanowski in an exhibition gamP. By ters after practice. "But that's the best "He did the right thing by coming in and the time the year was ovPr. various media decision for him. and I'm going to support being honest." Capers said. reports had questioned whether Collins him in that decision and move on." Beuerlein, who counts himself among was a racist and drank too much. and lw 
Collins, whose move came six days Collins' best friends on the team, said he was being frequently cascaded with boos before the NFL's trading deadline, would had no indication that Collins was consid­by fans at home games. not speak with reporters. Jlis agent, Leigh ering the move. Collins didn't say any­In the offseason, the Panthers deditH~d Steinberg, did not immediately return thing to Beuerlein about it until announc­to pay Collins a $6 million bonus that telephone messages left at his office. ing the move at a meeting of the team's would have extended his contract anotlwr 
Collins' decision means Steve Beuerlein, quarterbacks. three years. The team opted instead to ld who is in his 12th NFL season and his "We all thought he was joking. him play this year as a restricted fren third with the Panthers, will become Obviously. he wasn't," Beuerlein said. "I agent and bncome an unrestricted fren Carolina's starter. Shane Matthews, who can honestly say that I have never seen agent after the season. 

Tampa players demand apology 
Associated Press The NHL has received the videotape in separate incidents. 
from the game, but league officials "The league has told everybody 
MIAMI said Wednesday some potential wit· we're not going to let this stuff contin­
Tampa Bay Lightning players Sandy nesses had yet to be interviewed. ue," Panthers president Bill Torrey 
McCarthy and Darcy Tucker are "Obviously this is a very important said. 
demanding an apology from Florida conclusion to be reached here." "In the heat of battle, people react 
Panthers officials who accused them of spokeswoman Bernadette Mansur said. differently and sometimes say things 
making t;a~illl slurs. "We take these matters very seriously. and do things. Obviously this is a mat­
"We '¥~. an apology because some­The players themselves were being ter of what is right and what is accept­
one'strjiin .stab us," said McCarthy. very vocal. We need to make sure we able. We have to set some guidelines." 
who cont~.fids his gesture during get some accurate eyewitnesses." Torrey said he didn't think the NIIL 
Friday night's exhibition at Investigators still aim to reach a con­had a racial problem before, but the 
Jacksonville was misinterpreted. clusion before the teams meet again makeup of teams has changed. 
McCarthy acknowledges he tucked Friday night in their season opener. "The fact is there are more blacks in 
his hands under his armpits during a Either player could be suspended if the league, more Swedes, more this, 
heated third~period exchange with evidence supports the charges. more that," he said. "The mix in the 
Florida's. Peter Worrell, who is black. The NHL last'year undertook a National Hockey League is changing. 
McCarthy said he was not mimicking "zero-tolerance'' policy toward racial Like anything else, we probably have 
an apeV'but rather calling Worrell a slurs after Chdf .Simon and Craig some growing pains." 
"chickflfl.'' for not fighting. Berube of Washington wer(l' suspended; 
in the AFC in passing with eight touchdowns and only two
-interceptions. Coach Mike Shanahan said Elway "scrambled a couple of times out there. I was kind of surprised. A couple of times he had some pass rush and he kind of scooted to the side and ran downfield about 15 yards. It looked like he was 22, 23 years old again. So that was a good sign. ''I'm sure there's a little tight­ness and soreness, but he made it through practice and he practiced well." 

out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.OC' Nationally -circu!ated ad Success rate of 50% Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

-
Open noon to six • Tuesday through Sunday • 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 
ARTS & LETTERS CAREER DAY 
wORKSHOP SCHEDULJ!, Thursday, October 8, 199S 
WORKSHOP TITLE PRESENTERROOMS & TIMES 
Room 210 "Computer Adaptive Testing for Chad Schaedler 
II :00 a.m. & 2:00p.m. GMAT, GRE, Paper/pencil Testing Kaplan Educational 
for LSAT, MCAT, etc." Services 
"Careers in Advertising for the Arts Terri Burke and Letters Student" Starcom Media Services (a division 
3:00p.m. 
Room 212 of Leo Burnett) 
11 :00 a.m. & 2:00p.m. "Marketing Your Liberal Arts Skills" 
Kris Hull Procter and Gamble 

I :00 p.m. & 3:00p.m. "Non-Teclmical Career Opportunities 
in the Information Technology lnduatry" Anne Letzerich Trilogy Software 
Room 214 
II :00 a.m. & 2:00p.m. "Career Development Through Felix J. Martinez 
Internships For Students ofColor" In Roads-Chicago I 0:00a.m. & I :00 p.m. "Job Explosion in the 90's: DATABASE Marketing" 
Sara Thaler Johnson & Quin

Where: The Center For Continuing Education Please plan to Attend! 
Thursday, October 8, 1998 ____ The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
the win." was spear-headed by its defen­herself and lunged across the The Pangborn defensive sec­Veselik's numbers were even sive line. Molly Norton and goal line, giving Badin an early ondary rarely allowed a Walsh
Interhall 
morn impressive. She rushed Nicole Desman led a pass rush lead 6-0. Choi's passing game receiver to get open frustrating 
for over 109 yards and a that accounted for three quar­may have struggled but her the Walsh passing attack.
continued from page 28 
touchdown, completed six of terback hurries, two tackles­option attack was brilliant. Panell completed only three of 
With less than 2 minutes her 17 passes and a touchdown for-losses and a quarterback Throughout the afternoon her eight pass attempts and n~ mat ru ng i n t hn ga m e . and contributed a key intercep­sack. she made perfect pitches to her was intercepted twice, includ­lloward had the ball with tion and three tackles on When Choi managed to avoid tailback Fancesca Delayo. ing the very first play of the nxc1~llcnt field position at the defense. the rush long enough to throw Delayo averaged over eight game. Cavanaugh 35 yard linn. "We are improving every a pass, freshman cornerback yards-carry and scored BP's The Pangborn offense, not to Following a costly pass intnr­week." Howard coach Nate Helena Pan prevented Choi's only touchdown of the day on a be outshone by its defensive flmmen penalty by Cavanaugh, Medland said. "Our offense is passes from reaching their 14-yard scamper early in the counterpart, put up impressive Vnselik hooked up with Nnro scoring more points and gain­final destination. Pan turned in second half. numbers of its own. for 23 yards and a first down ing more yards every week. I a dominating defensive effort. "We were disappointed with Quarterback Jill DePaul com­at the Cavanaugh two yard am n~ally proud of these girls." She knocked three passes to the tie today," Choi said. "We pleted seven of 14 passes for linn. Dropping back again. the ground and intercepted two really expected to win. We just 92 yards and a touchdown. Vnsnlik avoided the rush and Badin 6, Breen-Phillips 6 others. BP only once managed need to put this game behind DePaul also demonstrated her fin~d a bullet to .Julie Warnick to complete a pass to a receiv­us and get ready for strong running game as she for a touchdown. Defense was the story of the er on Pan's side of the field. Cavanaugh." rushed for 52 yards and anoth­
Trailing 14-12 with only I: 19 Battle of the B's as neither "We are a freshman domi­er touchdown. n~maining, lloward elected to off1-msf~ could find its rhythm. nated squad," Badin captain Pangborn 12, Walsh 0 The lone bright spot for go for tlw two point conver­Both defenses managed hold Katie Dillenburger said. "It's Walsh on the afternoon was stion. Lining up from night the offenses in check and frus­great to see them make big In a weekend that saw many the second half play of its yards out. Vnsnlik rolled left trated the opposing quarter­plays" previously undefeated NFL defensive line. Hefusing to give and lofted a pass towards the backs. In addition to Schuler's game teams fall, Walsh Hall was up, Gina Morton, Sue Sweeney mulzone that fell just short. Jill Schuler's interception saving interception, she also dealt its first loss of the season and Jaekie Schmidt broke 
When tlw smoke of this great stopped a late Badin drive just contributed three tackles. by the ladies of Pangborn Hall. through the Pangborn offensive hattie had elnared, Allison short of the end zone, preserv­But the cornerstone of the BP Pangborn's defense stifled line numerous times in the see­Krilla and Cavanaugh llall ing a 6-6 tie. On the last play of defense was the defensive line. the Walsh attack while Jill ond half. w1we still standing. Krilla com­the game. Schuler out jumped .Jennifer Wahoske, Megan Depaul's 144 yards of total Schimdt alone had three plnWd Pight of I(> passes for 7f> a Badin receiver and stole Speaks and Katie Donohoe offense led the Pangborn taekles for losses. Thanks to yards and a touchdown. In away Badin's chance for an combined to form a terrifying charge on offense. Sophomore the play of the Walsh defensive addition to lwr aria! attack. upset. trio that sacked Clements twice defensive tackle Erin Piroutek line, Pangborn did not score in Krilla also added 40 yards on Badin quarterback Priscilla and frequently hurried her terrorized Walsh quarterback the seeond half. tlw ground. With a 2-2 record, Clements, gaining just 61 yards passes. Carolyn Panell all afternoon. "The defensive litw played 
C: a v a n a u gh is i n n x n e 1d In n t and throwing an interception. Both teams had their great­Contributing two sacks and tough but we just made too position to make thn playoffs. completnd only :n percent of est suceess on the ground. five tackles-for-losses, she led many mental mistakes today," 
"We're very excited about her passes. Her Bl' counterpart Badin's lone score came on a a unit that limited Walsh to a Walsh coach Durran Alexander today's victory." Cavanaugh .Jnnny Choi did not fare much one yard run by Clements mid­mere 56 yards of total offense. said. "We missed too many captain Sarah Kaufman said. better, throwing as many inter­way through the second half. "Erin played phenomenal," !lags and didn't make the right "We wen~ a lillln disappointed eeptions(two) as she did com­Following a 30-yard pass Pangborn coach Sergio reads. We have to cut out these about giving up that last touch­pletions. that got Badin to the one-yard DeHoyos said. "She made a lot mistakes before the playoffs down but we are happy to gnt The Badin defensive effort line, Clements kept the ball of big plays for us today." start." 
•NBA 
Players and owners could decide fate of season today 
Associated Press a midtown Manhattan hotel, The last formal bargaining They have taken an intransi­have only a couple of days to and both sides were extremely session was held Aug. 6, and gent position in which they are come up with a deal that will NEW YOHK pnssirn is tie that any progress owners walked out of the not inclined to respond to any­save an 82-garne season. and Is tlwrn any hope for saving would be made to avoid the room after hearing the play­thing other than what they are such a breakthrough seems tlu~ start of tlw NBA's regular first eaneelnd games because ers' proposal. demanding. It's not going to be unlikely with the sides far !Wason? of a labor impasse in league Union director Billy Hunter a concession deal where they apart on the main economie 
Back at tlw bargaining table history. said his side, too, will not be make demands and we con­issues. for only tlw second time in "We're not eoming with any­corning with any new conces­cede." The regular season is a Irn o s t t hn~ e a nd a ha If thing," NBA deputy commis­sions. The owners and players scheduled to begin Nov. 3. months, owrwrs and players sioner Buss Granik said. "We're prepared to address might find out the answ1~r "We'rn waiting to hear what their concerns, we really are," today. they have to say. So I don't llunter said. "But I'm not 
• SPORTS BRIEFS
Taiks wpre set to resunw at know what to expnet." going to bid against myself. Domer Run -The annual Oomer Run is scheduled for October 10 at 11 a.m. Race begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 . mile, 6 mile run and 2 mile walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Register in advance at HecSports. It costs $6. Proceeds benefit the Catherine Peachey Foundation, Inc. !'or Breast Cancer Hesearch. For more information. contact RecSports at 

1-6100. 
Stepan Court Scheduling -Meeting for the 1998-99 acade­mic year will be held Oct. 8 at 4:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre in LaFortune. Any organization wishing to rHservl' time must attend. For more information contact Student Activities at 1-6912. 
-

ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE CLUB PRESENTS: 
RESPECT LIFE WEEK 
PRAYER SERVICE ATSTATE PRISON 

-

, ___p
= 
= 

MF.f:T AT UBRARY CIRCLE AT 7:00PM. 
!OINT ArTIVITY WITH AMNESTY INTFRNATIONAI ALL ARE WELCOME. PLEASE JOIN US!I!!! 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
page 24 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 8, 1998 
student union 
HAPPENINti§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Armageddon. 10/8. 10/9. 10/10.  Thursday. Friday. Saturday.  Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium.  1030PM. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 0800PM & 1 030PM.  Tickets: $2.  
Acousticafe. 10/8.  Thursday.  LaFortune Huddle.  0900PM-1200AM.  Free Shirts and CD giveaways.  

HPC (HALL PRE§IDENT§' COUNCIL} 
SYRs. 10/9. Friday. Alumni, Badin, Fisher, St. Ed's, Stanford-Hall Wide. 10/10. Saturday. Cavanaugh-Hall Wide. 
Formals. 10/10. Saturday. Lyons, West Quad. 
Lewis Hall: Tug of War. 10/9. Friday. Lewis sand V-ball courts. 0500-0?00PM. $5/team: food and prizes. 
Lyons Hall: Mara Fox Fun Run. 10/10. Saturday. 1000AM. Meet at bball courts behind Lyons. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL} 
AASA Movie Night. 10/9. Friday. 
BSU Mtg. 10/11 Sunday esc 0300-0400PM. 
Mu Alpha Theta: Mtg & speaker (Duke grad student) 1 0/12 Monday CCMB Math Lounge 0700PM. 
Education Club Mtg. 1 0/12 Monday 239 Madeleva (SMC) 0530PM. 
CLASS OF i!OOO 
Class Movie. 10/8. Thursday. 
-
Class Dinner. 10/14. Wednesday. 
ALL CAMPUS 

Domer Run. 10/10. Saturday. 1100AM. $6 in advance, $7 at race: t-shirt, pancake breakfast to follow 
Dept.of Music Muir Quartet. 10/11. Sunday. AA. 0200PM Tickets: $3-$1 0 
STUDENT liOVERNMENT 
Saferide. 631-9888. 10/8. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0200AM. 10/9. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0300AM. 10/10. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1 OOOPM-0300AM. 
-
-

+ + -­
Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 

I hursday, Ocwber 8, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
----------------------------------~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------------~~~ 
•NBA 
Jordan continues to ponder NBA return 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO Michael Jordan says he is not ruling out returning to the Chicago Bulls, the Chicago Tribune reported. 
"What's most important right now is for me to see whore the league is going, then look deep inside myself to make a clear­cut d~cision. So for now I'm keeping my options open," Jordan said in an interview published in the Tribune's Thu1·sday fldi­tions and on the newspaper's Internet site. 
Jordan said his final decision must await the eonclusion of' the NBA lockout that has canceled the preseason sehedule and threatens at least part of the regular season. 
Jordan, 35, said he is "completely healthy, and the love I have for basketball, l'or the ehallenge or it, is still there f'or me.'' 
His comments are in contrast to what the Bulls star said in July when Jordan told a news conference he was retired, but wouldn't make it official until the lockout endt~d. 
Jordan also said he isn't opposed to playing for Tim Floyd or for an organization still run by general manager Jerry Krause. 
"I played with Jerry there tlHl last live or six snasons, and we've been successful," Jordan said. "I don't like it. But that's not going to be my final deciding factor." 
Jordan had indicated last season he wouldn't play for any coach but Phil .Jackson, who led the Bulls to six NBA titles in the last eight years. Jackson left this summer and the Bulls hired Floyd as eoach-in-waiting. 
Jordan said he thinks Jackson might return to coach him. But he acknowledged that the odds of Jackson coaching the Bulls this season are "probably a million to one.'' 
Jordan had nothing critical to say about Floyd, the former Iowa State coach he and Jackson referred to last season as "Pink" Floyd. 
"I don't fault him. I fault Jerry Krause for driving Jackson away," Jordan said. Floyd said Bulls chairman Jerry Reinsdorf recently told him he still plans to do his best to sign Jordan again. Jordan acknowledged it would be a challenge to win a title with a new coach. 
"For me, if there's no challenge, I don't want to play," he said. "But the Catch·22 for me is that I don't want peoplo say­ing I came back when I shouldn't have or I stayed too long." 
Williams 
continued from page 28 
nnr. 
"I've always fnlt l'vP l>ncn ready," said Williams. "I do know I can hotter, hut I'm not tlw kind of guy who's going to hack down. I kPnp it hyped. I like to talk. I like to celehratn. Every play, you've got to play lik(~ it's fourth-and-fivP and tlwy'rp going for it. That's my ganw." 
So far this season, Williams has shown that "he's got ganw." 
lie made fiv(~ solo taekles 
against Stanford and has regis­tered 15 taekles on the season, but just like any other second­ynar player, hB has some room for improv(~mnnt. 
"Brock played hard, didn't always play smart," said defensive backs eoaeh Tom McMahon. "l-Ie came up with some taeklcs. I think this is a growing-up period for him. You grow up when you're play­ing in games. He's got a snap in his step and he loves a chal­lenge. I hope it rubs off." 
In the Purdue game, Williams looked like hn had great position on a Drew Brees' pass to the endzonc, but just when it looked like he had a sure interception, Handall Lane stripped him of the ball and turned the Williams' pick into a Purdue touchdown. 
Following the play, Williams was visibly upset, but sinee then has bounced back in a big way. 
"lie's a tremendous competi­tor N doesn't want to get beat," said McMahon. "When he does get beat, he doesn't believe he did." 
The next test for Williams will eome this weekend when he lines up against Tariq McDonald and all-American eandidatn Lenzie Jackson, who already has 13 receptions for 160 yards. 

Despite the bobbled interception that led to a Purdue touchdown, Brock Williams' presence gave him his first start in the Irish defensive backfield a week later against Stanford. 
CAMPU­


COMPUTER 
CLUSTER 

Listed below are the three clusters and the hours in need of consultants. If interested send email to: gekeler.l @nd.edu AND submit or update your application at the following URL: www.nd.edu/....duscons 
Architecture (Bond Hall) Hours Davisson (O'Shag) Hours 
Monday  I:OOpm  - 2:00pm  
Tuesday:  3:00pm ­ 4:OOpm  
5:00pm­ 7:00pm  
Wednesday:  12:00noon ­ I:OOpm  
Thursday:  l2:00noon ­ I:OOpm  
3:00pm ­ 4:00pm  
6:00pm ­ 8:00pm  
Friday:  9:00am ­ II :DOom  
Saturday:  3:00pm ­ 4:00pm  

Sunday:  3:00pm ­ 4:00pm  
Monday  I:OOpm ­ 3:00pm  
Tuesday:  8:00am ­ II :OOam  
Wednesday:  II :OOam ­ 12:00noon  
I:OOpm ­ 3:00pm  
4:00pm­ 5:00pm  
Thursday:  IO:OOam ­ II :OOam  

l2:00noon -I:OOpm 6:00pm -7:00pm 
Friday: II :OOam -I2:00pm l:OOpm -2:00pm 4:00pm-5:00pm 
Hesburgh Hours 
Sunday  IO:OOam -II :OOam  
9:00pm ­ 2:00am  
Wednesday:  I:OOpm ­ 2:00pm  
Thursday:  II :OOam -12:00noon  
Friday:  9:00am ­ IO:OOam  
IO:OOpm -2:00am  
Saturday:  9:00am­ IO:OOam  




-
f 


-------------------------------------------------------------~----------_.----.---------------------------------~--------------~----~-----. 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 8, 1998 
•NFL 
Oakland's QB George could miss five weeks with injury 
Associated Press 
ALAMEDA. Calif. 

The Oakland HaidPrs mav bP missing quartPrbark )pff GPorgP longPr than expectPd. 
Coarh Jon GrudPn said \\'pdnPsday that GPorge has a torn left groin and that it's impossible to predict when lw'll return. Two days earlier, tlw Raiders had described the injury as a strain and held out hopP George could play this 
· wcPkend. "Jeff dues havp a muscle tear. it's more severe than we had hoped," Gruden said. "l don't know how long it will linger." George was knocked out of Sunday's 23-20 victory at Arizona with the groin injury, which happened as he threw a pass late in the first quarter. "Hight now l don't really now. We'll just have to wait and see. I don't know if it's a three-week, four-week or five­week injury," George said. "It's however long it takes to heal. I just have to be patient." The Raiders (3-2), who have won consecutive games for the first time since December 1996. face San Diego at home this Sunday. Then they have an off week. "The bye couldn't have come at a better time," George said. "If you can't drop back and you can't scramble, you don't want to put the offense in that situation." George has not missed a game because of injury since 1992. He missed the last 13 
-
games of the 199(J season strong an arm as GPorgc. But 1995, Oakland was 8-2 wlwn on Wednesday. though after being suspended by the the Haiders say they don't starter Jeff Ilostetler was Kaufman said lw expects to be Atlanta Falcons for a sideline plan to change the offense injured in a home game filw by Sunday. tirade against coach June because of the change in against Dallas. The Haiders Kaufman's backup, llarvf~Y Jones during a nationally tele­q1.1arterbacks. lost that game and the follow­Williams, has swelling in his vised game. "It's the same offense," ing five to l'inish 8-8 and miss right knee. 
''I've never had anything Hollas said. "Jon (Grudcn) will the playoffs. So Calvin Branch, a defen­like this before. I never had a just call different plays for me Oakland also is banged up at sive back who played running tear like that, but I'll deal than for Jeff." running back. Napoleon back in college, worked on with it and rehabilitate as fast The Raiders have not fared Kaufman is bothered by a offense Wednesday and could as I can," George said. well with backup quarter­sprained left ankle that be used as a running back in "Especially the way things are backs in recent years. In Grudcn said still was swollen an emergency this weekend. going now, you want to be out there." 
The CANDAX McNair Program Announces the 1998-99 
George's 
RECRUITMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS 
injury means 
WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI
Donald Hollas. who was 12-of­
(You need attend only one of the meetings. We have scheduled two for your 
22 for 104 
convenience. )

yards in the last three quar-
FOR STUDENTS WHO ARE 
ters against 
INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES
Arizona, will make his first 
AND WHO ARE EITHER 
NFL start since 1992. He will be backed up 
FIRST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS by 39-year-old Wade Wilson FROM LOW INCOME FAMILIES and Pat 
(ALL ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS)
Barnes, who was activated Wednesday a OR week after being signed to 
AFRICAN AMERICAN, HISPANIC
the practice squad. NATIVE AMERICAN Hollas, who until last week's relief 
ON MONDAY, 10/12 AND TUESDAY, 10/13
assignment at 
AT. 6:00 PM (TO 7:00 PM)
Arizona had 
taken only IN ROOM 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY three snaps since 1992, 
does not have ALL ELIGIBLE STUDENTS ARE WELCOME nearly as 
Refreshments after each Meeting 

.\ 
Thursday, October 8, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-

WELL Wf>RE ON OUR w'AY ---(o SEE IHE WIZARb. f. FRESH;VJAN HERE IS ASKIM::; 

fOR COVRAqf; ANt> I/11 ASK;, 

FOXTROT 
DILBF.RT 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Poster announcement
1 --metabolism 29 Candy
6 The Beatles' "--a Woman" 
30 Take-view of

10 Western lily 31 "--homo!"
14 Kukla and Fran's partner 
33 Dieter's lunch 
37 Watch over15 Soccer legend 

16 Auditorium 38 Mary's best friend on 70's TV
17 Where the Rockies play 40 Spent 
19 Canal to Buffalo 41 Haggadah· reading t1me
20 A.BA member 43 T.V.A. product: 
21 Ratted (on) 
Abbr. 22 "The Glass 
44 Scintilla

Menagerie" mother 45 Defense acronym
24 Kind of phone 47 Discernment
25 Old G.O P. politico Harold 49Skit 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

52 Economist Smith 
53 Miami newspaper 
54 A-apple fink 55 "60 Minutes" network 
58 Maintain 59 Where t11e Red Sox play 62 Thrill 63 Scottish isle 64 Blast frw the past 65 Time-line times 66 Rialto light 
67 out (barely beat) 
DOWN 1 -Aaron. Fla. 2 Oodles 3 Mail open1ng 4 Tune 
Puzzle by Gregory E. Paul s Fiatt of 
bluegrass 
23 Fannie-­(securities)

6 Knock 011er 24 Where the 7 Take notice 
Orioles play a 45 inches 
25 Alfred Nobel. sCalm e.g. 10 Where lhe Mets 26 Fordham team play 
27 Singer Brickell 11 Pockets 28 "Inherit the--" 12 Dance 29 Chew out 
movement 
32 Defraud 13 Upstate New 34 Weaving York city machine 
10 Dossier 35 Chip in a chip 
/}{j{!)p:J§q SORRY, FIRST 

BILL AMEND 

36 College official 52 City on the Nile 39 Maine's --54 Part of A.D. National Park 
55 Rogues 42 Attendance list 
56 Soft cheese 46 Minnow 
57 TV Guide chart, 
48 Echo site for short 49 Stage 60 Help wanted ad 50 Prying tool abbr. 
51 Coliseum 61 West BanK org. 
Get answers to any three clues by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420­5656 (75¢ each minute). 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: David Carradint•, jesse jackson, Sigourney Weaver, Clwvy Chase 
Happy Birthday: This is not the time to sit back and 1<•1 others do all th<' work You need to face each day making use of your hands-on exper­tise if you really want to get things done properly. You have the know­how and the drive to make things happen, so stop sitting around wait­ing for others to do the work. If you will just take the initiative, you will finally find yourself in a leadership position. Your numbers: 4, 14, 23, 32, 36,41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your 
energy must be directed into your 
work. You will shine and will impress 
others if you do more than what 
your boss asks for. Advancement is 
forthcoming. 000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
will be emotional regarding th~ 
changes in your personal relation­
ship. Don't sit back feeling sorry for 
yourself. Get out and get active. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-june 20): You 
will have plenty of activity going on 
around your home. Get those cup­
boards cleaned out and the walls 
painted. The renovations will lift your 
spirits. 000 

CANCER (june 21-July 22): Your 
involvement with large groups will 
play a major role in your changing 
attitude. Your partner may not be 
moving in the same direction that you 
are.OOOO 

LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Put your 
efforts into your work and career 
advancement. Your personal life will 
be in shambles if you have tried too 
hard to hold on to your dream. You 
need to take a realistic look at your situation. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You can make changes if you are willing to upgrade m take on a challeng<' th.lt will teach you as }rou work. You need to talk to those who can give you an obj(_•ctivC' view nf your situation. 00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to make a rf."sid('ntial change. Be sure that you don't back yourself into a corner by spending more than you can rightfully afford. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Try to be more flexible in your personal ideals. Get involved in hobbies that will take your mind off unwarranted suspicions. You can bet that your mate will not be happy with your jealous attitud<'. 000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
Don't let problems that a co-worker 
has interfere with your project. You 
may need to summon the help of a 
third party in order to complete the 
job.OOO 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
You need a change. Take a look at 
yourself and the direction that your 
life is taking. Think about the possi­
bilities of making a residential move 
oracareerchange.CX)CK)O 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
need to look into making changes to 
your living arrangements. You must 
stand up for your rights. Females in 
your home may cause friction. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You 
will meet new friends or lovers 
through relatives or family gather­
ings. You should consider taking a 
trip that will bring you the long over­
due rest and relaxation you need. 
0000 

Birthday Baby: You will go after whatever it is you want with vengeance. You must learn to be cauhous in order to avoid unnecessary mishaps. You have the ability to reach any goal that you set for yourself, but you must learn that shortcuts rarely pay off. 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or 
www.eugenialast.com.) 
C li)'.}K Uni\'t.•r..;,,l Pr\.'SS S~·mt~eah· 
• OF INTEREST 

An overview of National Family Planning will be presented co-sponsored by Office of Campus Ministry and the National Family Planning Program of St. Joseph County in the Montgomery Theater at 7:30 
p.m. Learn how NFP has no harmful chemieal, social, or moral side effects and why 98% of NFP couples stay happily married. Call 237-7405 for more information. 
"What's Next? Criteria for Decision Making -A video presentation of Fr. Michael Himes' talk will be held today at 5 p.m. in the council room of Keenan Hall. Pizza will be served. 
Teach for America will have an information session today at 7 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
MEC Festival -Alan Biegger will speak on Environmental Movement "ND's Conscientious choices for the festival." at Beckers at 12 p.m. 
Auditions for the Spring 1999 ND Opera production will be held this afternoon from 3:30 to 6 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium. Please bring one aria or song (from memory) and music for the pianist. An accompa­nist will be provided. Roles are opPn for Soloists and Chorus, Sign-up sheets for an audition time are on the door of 105 Crowley Hall. All Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students are welcome to audition. 
-

Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an inclispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclose~ is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
-

Name __________________________________________ _ Address ________________________________________ City __________ State ______ Zip________ 
• 



• Former Irish star 
• Indians pull even, 
receiver Derrick Mayes 
Padres draw first blood 
will undergo examina­
from Braves in play­
tions following a knee 
offs. 

injury.
PORTS 
p.21 
THE

page28 ---------------------------------------------0 BSERYER Thursday, October 8, 1998 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop hard-fought match in three games 
Despz'te to gh d J: •
U etenSlVe effort Belles fall to Hope
' 

College at home 
DANA KIDNEY Sporrs Writer 
The Saint Mary's volleyball team fell short of a win last night against visting Hope College in three games:15-11,15­8,15-13. 
However. head coach Jennie Joyee was very pleased with the team's play overall. 
"Despite the loss, we played awesome defense at the net and on the floor," Joyce said. "We were playing at the level we need to play at in order to beat teams and be competitive in our conference." 
"We played a great game, and we all knew that we could've won," freshman .Jolie LeBeau said. "With a little more effort. we would have pulled it off." 
The Belles were able to keep every game close. The Belles could have won any of the games if they had converted more of the frequent vplleys. 
"Hope is a great serving team, but we fought back, and our agressiveness never died down," Joyce said. "We struggled on our offense though. Our serving could've been much better." 
Although the team did not serve well freshman Suzanne Martin and junio; Agnes Bill aced the Dutch, contributing four service aces a piece. 
The Belles defense was what kept them in the game.

"I thought we played so well. It looked like we were totally there," Bill said. "We 
executed well, and there were lots of digs. Ou~ poor servi.ce was our weakness 
tomght, for sure.' 

Freshman Angie Meyers and junior Jayne Ozbolt each contributed solid defen­sive efforts. Meyers had 28 digs while Ozbolt's 15 block touches and 15 solo blocks kept the Belles in the game. 
"Overall we played great defense and we came up with some awesome blocks " Meyers said. "We faced Hope earlier in the season, and this time we played much bet­ter, even though we still lost." 
"We played well, but we struggled with certain things," Suzanne Martin said. "Our defense was great. llopefully that will carry over to this weekend's tournament." 
The Belles go into the Saint Mary's College Spectacular tournament this week­end to face several tough conference teams. 
"Before this weekend, we need to step it up a notch and be more aggressive," Meyers said. "We need to focus more on serves and talk 
more on the floor too.'' 
"If we keep up the good play at the net and our good defense this weekend," LeBeau said, "We will defi­nitely come out on top." 
Joyce agrees that the Belles need to work on a few things before this weekend's tour­nament. 
"We need to get our offense clicking,"Joyce said. "We also need to come with our S . , . . . TheObserver/LaraBeckercomplete game defense and offense." alnt Marys ~oes f.~r a kill dunng their match against Hope College last night at 
-
-· 
-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A~~:e:~~Aful~cFarni~.TheBeiiM~~fuem~~infureegamM . 
• INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
• FOOTBALL 
Krilla outguns Veselik 
Williams brings emotion to 'D' 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistanr Sports Ediror 
"It was all about attitude.'' 
Brock Wiliams words follow­ing the Stanford sum up the way he plays football -with emotion. 
"Brock is a feisty little guy," said head coach Bob Davie. "He brings something to the table for us." 
On Saturday,Williams was seen on several occasions strutting his stuff after a big defensive play. 
He brings a whirlwind of emotion to a defensive back­field that has been steady for the Irish this season, despite the loss of Allen Rossum and Ivory Covington. 
"Brock brings a lot of fire to us," defensive coordinator Greg Mattison said. "He makes it fun, and defense is supposed to be fun. You almost have to border on showboating. I would never want our kids to showboat, to taunt, but you' ve got to play with emotion. If you can't play with emotion, then you can't play defense." 
Williams can definitely play some defense. 
After making his first start against Purdue, Williams has quickly become a reliable cor­
see WILLIAMS I page 25 

in Cavanaugh Victory 

By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 

Cavanaugh 14, Howard 12 
In the most exciting game on Sunday afternoon, Howard's two point conversion try fell just short and Cavanaugh escaped this battle of great quarterbacks with a 14-12 vic­tory. 
Cavanaugh senior qurter­back Allison Krilla put her team on the board first. Following an excellent punt return that gave Cavanaugh the ball at the Howard 11 yard line, Krill a fired a 7 -yard strike to Megan McNally to put the ball at the 4-yard line. 
Then excuting the option to perfection, Krilla pitched the ball to Kristin Patrick, who crossed the goaline to give Cavanaugh a 7-0 lead. 
Howard freshman quarter­back Jill Veselik answered Krilla's drive with fireworks of her own. On the last play of the first half, Veselik avoided the Cavanaugh rush and took off down the sideline. Avoiding seven would-be-tacklers, Veselik rushed for an incredi­. . . . . The ObseiVer/John Daily ble 70 yard touchdown run to 
~howcaslng h.ls stuff IS a familiar scene for Brock Williams on the bring Howard within one, 7-6. 
f1eld after an lnsh defensive stop. Unfazed by Veselik's heroics, Krilla opened the second half with an impressive drive of her own. Completing four of her five attempts in addition to eight yards of rushing, Krilla increased the Cavanaugh lead when she hit McNally on a 30­yard bomb to put Cavanaugh up 14-8. 
On Howard's next posses­sion, Veselik found her favorite target Vanessa Nero for a 10 yard gain. Nero had five catch­es for 7 4 yards on the after­noon. 
Howard looked as though it would answer Cavanagh's drive on its next possession but an excellent play on fourth and inches by the Cavanaugh defensive line stuffed Vesclik in the backfield, stopping the Howard drive. 
Looking to put the game away, Krilla led Cavanaugh right back down the field. Completing both her passes and rushing for 17 yards to put the ball at the Howard 8 yard line, it looked as though noth­ing could stop Krilla's attack. But on Krilla's very next pass, Veselik, who played both ways, stepped in front of Kirlla's intended receiver and returned the interception 17 yards. 
see INTERHALL I page 23 
at Arizona State at Santa Clara Saturday, 2:30 p.m. Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
SPORTS 
Hockey vs Lake Superior State 
ATA 
Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 

at Boston College at Connecticut Tomorrow. 7 p.m. Tomorrow, 7:30p.m . 
GLANCE 

• 





