----~------l 
• Autry Denson rushed for 163 yards and 
• The Scene reviews "54" and video pick "Willie 
Monday
helped lead the Irish to victory over the 
Wonka and the Chocolate Factory." 
Michigan Wolverines. 
SEPTEMBER 
Irish Insider 
Scene • 8 
7, 1998 


THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 10 


SDH move upsets campus publications 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
N"w' Writer 
Along with thn nnw wal'l'ln iron and rnultipiP salad bars, .'i out h Dining II ;til has b n n n rl'novatnd to indudl' things that havl' nothing to do with f'ood: LIH' ol'l'in~s of' all thn student publications on campus. 
Tlu~ dndsion to movn thn stu­dPnt publications -Tlw OhsPrvnr, Scholastic, Tlw Dome and Tlw .Juggler -!'rom l.ilFortunn StudPnl Cnntnr to tho hasnmnnt of' SDII was rl'aclwd about two yPars ago, said .lo1~ Cassidy. director of' .'itudPnt Activities. 
According to Cassidy, who proposed llw movn, it was a "timn-1·onsuming" process which includnd numerous m1wtings with groups such as .'itudiHlt Aetivitins, Student Af'f'airs and Food Serviens. 
"ITiwn~ wnrnl issues raised by all !'our groups," said Cassidy, who dnalt with thn publk.ations' concl)rns. Tlwsn 1:oncnrns included security and 
•u·cess to the student body and studPnt government. 
Sincn Llw basnnwnt an)a of' llw dining hall "almost nxaetly matchPcl" that of' tlw space us P d hy tlw p u b I i cati o n s i n l.at:ortunn. Cassidy !'ell that llw publications' nnnds would bn IllI't. 
Not nvPrymw agrnns. 
Tlu• transition has not b1~Pn a smooth onn, according to Patrick llowrws, Pditor-in-chinf' of' Scholastic. 
"WI' 'rp still in tlw middiP of' it lllw transition!." Dowrws said. "Tiwn• havn benn a million lit­LIP annoying things that havnn't 1'.01111' tog1)tlu)r, that am assod­atnd with any movn." 
Wh1Hl Scholastic work1•rs showed up tho wnPk lwf'orn school began, tlwy round boxns upon boxos pilod in th1~ middln of their nnw office 11oor. During Llw l'irst wenk of classes, they dealt with the "heavy lifting" portion of their move and are only now bnginning to get sct­tlf)d in. 
Downes, who fools that Scholastic office space is slight­ly lnss than whnn it was in LaFortuno, said the move has "ahsolutnly" alTectNI the maga­zinn's progrnss. 
"Wn've bnon w·orried about wlwrn computers arn going to go, ratlwr than when the next issuo is 1~oming out," Downos said. 
Although lw admits that tho rww furniture and editor's ofl'ice aro nice porks, Downes fenls they in no way make up !'or thn change in location. 
"Wn'n~ further away from Student Union Board, who we nend to contact on a regular basis," said Downes. "It's defi­nitnly, all things considered, been a negative thing." 
"This movn wasn't about tho studonts at all, it was about administration," said .John Pnsehke, eo-editor-in-chief of Tho Dome. 
l'nsehb), who said that Thn Donw's offien is a "wreck" and of'l'nrs "no convnninnce," also said that thn yoarbook is "sub­stantially bnhind. 
"We lost a lot of the work from last ymtr," added Pnschke. 
Tho students aro not thn only onos who have voiced their complaints. 
"The o!Ticr.s should have n~mained in LaFortune," said Dennis Moore, dirnetor of' Public Hnlations and I nl'ormation. "LaFortune is thn crossroads of' the earnpus, nspecially !'or tho student news­paper." 
While Cassidy admits that "it would have been [the publica­
see SOH I page 4 

WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
s far as rushing the field, there were no injuries reported. It was pretty organized chaos.' 
Kevin Knight, Security Officer 
Head coach Bob Davie said it was "the biggest win I've ever had," and thou­sands of stu­dents appar­ently agreed as they stormed the field sec­onds before the Irish vic­
tory over the defend-. ing national 
co-champi­ons, Michigan, 
36-20. 
Saturday's win cata­pulted the Irish to a top 10 rank­ing in the AP poll. 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 



Surveys rank accounting programs in top I 0 

Number ofGraduates 
Big Six Accounting Firms Percent ofTotal 
Starting Salaries: Average: High: Low: 

So11rce: Accozmttmcy /Jept. /lome page 
208 
148 71.2% 
33,327 40,000 28,000 
By BILL UNIOWSKI 
Assisram News Editor 
The Accountancy department has been finding its calculations finishing up in the top 10 lately. 
Surveys ranked Notre Dame seventh in the nation for the number of partners in top firms, while the undergraduate accounting program and mas­ters in accountaney, a new pro­gram this year, each ranked sixth in the country. 
Bowman's Accounting Report, a monthly newsletter, cited Notre Dame as one of the nation's principal incubators for partners, with 160 alumni as partners in Big 6 firms. 
Since the report, two of the six have merged, resulting in five major accounting firms. 
The results of these surveys will undoubtedly effect the rep­utation of the Accountancy department, according to Tom Schaefer, chairman of the department, who came to Notre Dame this year from Florida State University. 
"It's going to enhance it greatly, although Notre Dame has been fairly high for a while -it's come to be expected," he said. 
The new "Big 5" accounting firms consist of Arthur Andersen, Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young, KPMG Peat Marwick and PriceWaterhousn­Coopers. 
There urn many reasons why ND students arn attractive to thesn firms. 
"First of all, tho accounting program is fairly rigorous and attraets a high caliber student," Schaefer said. lie also cited the overall university experience with a liberal arts curriculum and the national student body. 
Hussell Kitchner, acting director for career and place­ment services, said recruiters know what they get when they hire a Notre Dame graduate. 
see SURVEYS I page 4 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The Paradox of Our Age 
E-mail. 
Colleen Gaughen
We all 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor
have it, most of us use it and many of us become obsessed with it. Our in-boxes fill and overflow with messages from friends, club announcements, mass course correspondence and, my personal favorite, e-greeting cards. 
Oh yeah, they also flood with forwards. 
Now I admit I have been the culprit several times in distributing the obnoxious attempts at humor, and yes, even the occasional chain let­ter might be sent should there be $5000 or a trip to Disney World at stake. 
But every once in awhile a truly profound forward will find its way to you. Sometimes they are about friendship and love, sometimes about college experiences. Others explore the wonder of real-life miracles, and still others reminisce about being children of the '80s and the changes in society since. 
The following is an anonymous observation of what has happened to humanity. I received it as a forward over e-mail, and would like to share it with you now. When you've finished reading it, think about it. Then read it again. 
We have taller buildings, but shorter tem­pers; wider freeways, but narrower viewpoints; we spend more, but have less; we buy more, but enjoy it less. 
We have bigger houses and smaller families; more conveniences, but less time; we have more degrees, but less common sense; more knowledge, but less judgement; more experts, but more problems; more medicine, but less wellness. 
We spend too recklessly, laugh too little, drive too fast, get too angry too quickly, stay up too late, get up too tired, read too seldom, watch TV too much, and pray too seldom. 
We have multiplied our possessions, but reduced our values. We talk too much, love too seldom and lie too often. We've learned how to make a living, but not a life; we've added years to life, not life to years. We've been all the way to the moon and back, but have trouble cross­ing the street to meet the new neighbor. 
We've conquered outer space, but not inner space; we've done larger things, but not better things; we've cleaned up the air, but polluted the soul; we've split the atom, but not our prej­udice; we write more, but learn less; plan more, but accomplish less. 
We've learned to rush, but not to wait; we have higher incomes; but lower morals; more food but less appeasement; more acquain­tances, but fewer friends; more effort, but less success. We have more information, but less communication; we've become long on quanti­ty, but short on quality. 
These are the time of fast foods and slow digestion; tall men and short character; steep profits, and shallow relationships. These are the times of world peace, but domestic war­fare; more leisure and less fun; more kinds of food, but less nutrition. 
These are days of two incomes, but more divorce; of fancier houses, but broken homes. These are days of quick trips, disposable dia­pers, throwaway morality, one-night stands, overweight bodies, and pills that do everything from cheer, to calm, to kill. 
It is a time when there is much in the show 
window, and nothing in the stockroom. Indeed, it's all true. Think about it, and then read it again. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooNt's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Bill Uniowski  Mike Vanegas  
Colleen McCarthy  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Jenny Schaaf  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hare  Anthony Bianco  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Jeff Hsu  
Job Turner  

Th< Obs<rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Monday, September 7, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Dry-campus leads to problems with neighbors of university 

LEXINGTON, Ky. 

With students forced to take their parties off campus because of the new dry-campus policy, residents in the Aylesford neighborhood are complain­ing of littering, loud music and destruction of property. 
"Students have no respect for pri­vate property," said Lisa Johnson, a resident of the Aylesford neighbor­hood. 
She said she has seen beer cans lit­tering residents' yards, broken fences and even students urinating in nearby Transylvania Park. On her own prop­erty, she said, students broke part of a picket fence and left garbage in the front yard. 
She said she has complained to the students about their behavior, but they just ignored her. 
Johnson said she was surprised to see college students act that way. "I expect 21-and 22-year-olds to behave as responsible adults," she said. 
Now she is calling on others for help. 
"I think university officials should help Lexington police and community leaders in resolving the problem," Johnson said. 
Nelson French, a minister who lives on Aylesford Place, said he awoke last Monday night to bright red, white and blue lights that students were flashing near his bedroom window. 
"Aylesford looks like a war zone," French said. 

• UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Researcher faces murder charges 
Oto Orlik stood mute in the courtroom Wednesday as he was charged with the brutal murder of his 14-year-old disabled daughter and the attempted murder of his wife. Amidst a room of reporters at his first court appearance, Orlik appeared calm as District Attorney Diane Nicks requested his bail be set at $350,000. Court Commissioner Todd Meuer set Orlik's bail at $320,000. Orlik, 38, is a researcher of veterinary sciences at UW-Madison. On Aug. 29, he allegedly argued with his wife .• Danica Orlikova, in their west side apartment and later slashed the throat of their daughter, Lenka Orlikova, court records stated. At 
7:05 p.m., police entered Orlik's apartment, located at 4725 Sheboygan Ave., and discovered Lenka's body in the living room with her throat slashed and multiple stab wounds. Orlik was found unconscious in a front hallway, apparently from self-inflicted knife wounds, police said. According to a report issued Wednesday, Danica said she and Orlik had been having "marriage problems." 
• OKlAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY 
New activity transcript faces delays 
What students do outside the walls of a classroom soon will receive the same recognition as what they do inside. The student activity transcript will show all of the Oklahoma State University organizations students have participated in since their freshman year. University offi­cials working on the activity transcript hope to accommo­date seniors graduating in December, but Jennifer Hoffman, campus life graduate assistant in charge of spe­cial programs and events, said delays are anticipated. Activity transcripts are tentatively available for May grad­uates that apply. Delays are based on a limited number of people and equipment available to work on the project. A copy of the activity transcript is free to the student. If stu­dents want a copy mailed, $1 will be charged for postage and handling, Hoffman said. The idea for the transcript was approved last spring, and the program is in the last stages of development, Hoffman said. 
Although he said he likes most UK students and enjoys the atmosphere, he agrees with Johnson that some stu­dents need to show more respect for the property of others. 
Residents have called on the police and the mayor to help resolve this matter. Police Chief Larry Walsh said Lexington police officers issued close to 200 citations to students last week­end for alcohol-related offenses. 
"There has been an increase in complaints this year, and the football games haven't started yet," Walsh said. 
"I want to get the word out to UK students to be respectful of peoples' private property," he said. 
Johnson invited Mayor Pam Miller to tour the neighborhood last week. She toured last Thursday and will return tonight, Johnson said. 
The mayor was unavailable for com­ment. 

• MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
Woman files suit after alleged rape 
A woman who alleges she was raped at Delta Upsilon in 1996 has filed suit against both the Institute and the fraternity for negligence. The suit alleges that the woman, Angela Colt, was served so much alcohol she could not fend off her attacker. Colt filed suit Monday against MIT, DU's national corporation, and the chap­ter's alumni association, which owns the house. The suit alleges a "negligent failure to ensure the safety of those lawfully on the premises of MIT's fraternity houses." Matthew Keller a 1997 MIT graduate, the alleged assailant, was also named as a defendant in the case. Colt, then 17, and a co-worker attended a party at the fraternity on Aug. 2, 1996. Colt's co-worker was a DU brother from another college living at the MIT chapter over the summer, according to The Boston Globe. The alleged assailant was not a member of the fraternity. "Matthew Keller was definitely not a brother," said Jeffrey Steinheider '99, DU rush chair. 
• UNl'IJERS!TY OF UTAH 
Renowned prof dies in airplane crash 
Dr. Roger Williams, an internationally recognized expert in the field of cardiovascular genetics and professor of internal medicine at the University of Utah School of Medicine, died Wednesday in the crash of a Swissair jet­liner off the coast of Nova Scotia. I Ie was 54. Williams was an influential member of the medical community both at the University and worldwide. Barbara Horne, an office coordinator at Utah Cardiovascular Genetics Research Clinic, says she has known Williams for eleven years and he was always very kind to her and the other employees. She said that she remembers Williams saying, "I've never been in trouble by being nice to my employees." Horne added that the mood of the clinic is devastation, shock and the feeling that it hasn't really hit them yet. Williams was a native of Ogden. He attended Weber State University for his undergraduate work, and graduated from the University's medical school. 
• SO!JTH Bam WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.,H L
r~/ 


Monday ~75 64 
l


Tuesday Wednesday ¢-~'80 59 Thursday ~, ''81 63 

) 


Frid~y ,, 1~?1 "82 
(.f..t\fy''', ,..,,,.:~ ':,;"' 

Anchorage 56 44 96 68 Key West 91 81 Aspen 80 44 Fargo 72 44 Milwaukee 70 52
~Q~ddd !) ~ d
""' "" .. . :....... ·:·.,:"./ -=.-=.-=. 
Baltimore 90 62 Fresno 98 71 New York 88 64 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloud~ Cloud~ 
Boston 86 62 Helena 87 57 Phoenix 104 82 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Monday, September 7, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Power Play run/walk raises money for cancer research 
l lhsrrver SraH· Report 
The Notre Damn iee hockey team sponsored thn second annual "Power-Play Hun/Walk" for the light against eaneer yes­terday. 
Attracting bntwnnn 500 and (J00 participants this year, tho 1wnnt was doscribml by Andy Slaggert. assistant eoaeh of' the hockey team, as, "a msounding success." A 11JIJO graduate of the Notre Dame hockey program, Slaggert established the Power­Play Hun/Walk in mmnory of his brother Ed, who passed away in the summer of \1)97 after a battle with cancer. The proceeds from thn event are donated to the Bennet Cancer Center in Stamford, Conn., by establishing a scholarship fund fiJr those stu­dent<> who are lighting cancer. 

"It's just a great chance for people to wind down and get some exereise for a good cause, after an exciting day of football on Saturday," said Slaggert. 
The Power-Play Run/Walk was formatted to include competitive raeing while allowing for walkers and casual joggers to move at their own pace. To this end, par­ticipants could complete either a two-mile walk, a five kilometer 


Police end youth rally by force 
Associated l'rr" 
NEW YOHK 
Mayor Budolph (;iuliani Sll~ppml up his defense Sunday of polien ol'lienrs who stormed tlw stage at a youth rally in llarlem on Saturday. saying that they had decided to move i n on Iy a f't <H' the knyno le spnaker began urging the crowd to "riot and murder." 
Tensions about tho rally's abrupt ending mounted Sunday, with tho organizers and community lnad<H'S in llarlnm ar.eusing the eity of using excnssivo foree to shut down what had b<~on a peace­ful event. 
TIH\y threatened to sun thn r i l y , say i n g tIH• p o I i e e had dnfi<HI a <:ourt ordnr permit­ting thn rally and had violatnd tlw dvil rights of thousands of' participants. 
Giuliani has givnn several <~xplanations for thn police action. Early Sunday, he said at a news conferenc1~ that organizers had flouted a "sacn~d" court order by going past a 4 p.m. deadlirw. 

"If you want to know why thn policn came in at 4:01, go read tho court order," Giuliani said. "This is all about creat­ing a respnctful society. Tho court said they had between 12 and 4; it meant exactly that." 
But on Saturday, just before the rally, tho mayor had said that the police would allow "some reasonable flexibility" in ending the rally at 4 p.m. 
And in a call to a reporter Sunday night, he said that the police would indeed have allowed the event to run late, if the chief organizer, Khallidun Abdul Muhammad, had not begun inveighing against thn officers in a speech laced with obscenity and anti­Semitic slurs. 
"They were quite prepared to bn more flexible. but when the speech turned to incite­ment to riot and murder, they elosed down the event," Giuliani said. "I had given them the discretion to make that determination." 
Shortly before 4 p.m. on Saturday, as dozens of officers in riot gear assembled behind the stage, Muhammad told the crowd to gird themselves for possible attacks by the police. If attacked by officers, he said, members or the erowd should "take their guns away and use their guns in self-defense." 
Just as Muhammad was fin­ishing his five-minute speech, a police helicopter swooped low over a section of Lenox Avenue known as Malcolm X Boulevard. where a crowd estimated by the police at 6,000 had assembled for the rally. Ot'f'icnrs climbed onto the stage, ducking thrown bottles and chairs as they shut down the sound system. 
One civilian was injured as the crowd was dispersed, but not seriously. About 15 police officers also received minor injuries. 
Giuliani and Police Comm­issioner lloward Safir said after the rally that they want­ed Muhammad to be charged with inciting to riot. Although they said so again Sunday, no charges had been pressed by Sunday night. 

GOT SOMETHING TO SAY? USE THE OBSERVER CLASSIFIEDS 
Check out more about the Sacrament of 


Con irmtttion 
Aregou a6apttzro Cathodewfio fias ~er 6ttnConJlrmro? 
Aregou wonOO'tll£1 whdfiergou nero to 6e ConJlrmro to get marriroin.the CathodeCfiurefi? 

Woum gou dire topreparefor Confirmationwltfi other Xotre DamestuOO\tswfio are ~rotcatro togrowlll£1 tntheirfaith? 
For more information about the confirmation program come to an information session at: 
SieafriwCfiapei ff"'uesaag, Sept. s 7:00p.m. 
please contact Fr. John Conley, CSC or Katie Pytlak at 631-5242 or stop by the Badin Campus Ministry office with any questions. 
-

0MPUS MINISTRY 
run or a 10 kilometer run. Entry fees consisted of $6 for students and $10 for alumni, faculty, staff and community members. On site registrants were charged $8 and $12 respectively. All participants received a race t-shirt courtesy of Adidas and refreshments for their efforts. 
The combination of increased turnout and the ell'orts of Jimmy Barrett from the LifeSkills Department to incrnase corpo­rate sponsorship resulted in what Slaggert estimates will be a dou­bling of last year's revenue. 
Prior to the racn, Slaggert had expressed his hope that some Michigan fans would take part, as Georgia Tech fans did last year. lie nxplained that he didn't see any, but was not surprisnd in light of tho result of Saturday's game. 
UniVersity appoints ~new housing boss 
Spedal to the Qbsei:ver 
Scott Kachmarik, formerly assistant director of housing at Bucknell University, has been appointed director of Student Residences at Notre Dame. 
In addition to his responsi­bilities in the housing office at. Bucknell, Ka.ehmarik also served as an assistant direc­tor of alumni and con­stituent relations at the 
trllivetilty. ;;::trmt 
.. ;,W·_;;:, =·,t:k= 
Kachmarik earned bache­lor's and master's degrees in education from Bowling Green State University and is completing his doctorate in higher education at Pennsylvania State University. 
Kachmarik will be respon­sible for housing more than 6,400 Notre Dame undor· graduates in the University's 27 residence halls and some 600 graduate students in its apartment facilities. 
r----------------------~
: : 
1 1 
I 

Shorin-Ryu : Karate ! 
•Discipline 
I •Self-Defense 

•Self 
Confidence I •Fitness 


Classes Begin Thursday, September 10 Continuous Program -$18.00 Per Semester Meets: Tuesdays &Thursdays 6:00-7:30 Rockne RM. 219 Black Belt Instructor: Carl Putnam 
Register in Advance at RecSports For More Info. Call 1-6100 Demonstration Tuesday, September 8, Rockne Rm. 219 6:30PM 
k?#?~ 
www.nd.e<iuJ-recsport 
~----------------------~ 
IN CONCERT BLESSID UNION 


OF SOULS 

SATURDAY •SEPTEMBER1l• 8 PM OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM • SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
TICKITS ON SALE ATTHE SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE BOX OFFICE IN OLAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM. OPEN 9 AM-5 PM, MONDAY-FRIDAY. CREDIT CARD ORDERS BY PHONE: 
219/284-4626 
ADULTTICKITS ALSO AVAILABLE AT ALL ~~TICKfT CENTERS INCLUDING ORBIT AND L..S. AYRES. TO CHARGE TICKITS BY PHONE, CALL 
219/272-7979 "'"'Mm><•""'~ To purchase online: MOW~ ./http://www.ticketmaster.com f c;_Ig. rHE !fff!.­
~NO"'•PA.,•. ,, 


------~ ­
. I . I­
.

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS . . 
Kirk feels the change is a former department chair, 
good one because the dining Thomas Frecka, according to Accounting Rankings hall is becoming a central area Schaefer. 
continued from page 1 on campus due to the new 24-continued from page 1 "It emphasizes an active 
SDH Surveys 

~reriaf now eXPandedto ThU~I~!!! 
r-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­Thursdays 10:00 PM-2:00AM Fridays 10:00 PM-3:00AM Saturdays lO:OOPM-3:00 AM Call 631-9888 for services. Sponsored by your Student Government. 
~------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­


OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS FIELD IS 60 YD. BY 40 YD. 5 ON 5 PLUS GOALIE REGISTER ATEAM IN THE RfCSPORTS OFFICE 
DEADLINE IS WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 9 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL RECSPORTS AT 631 ..61 oo 
www.nd.edu/--recsport 

THE FIRST ANNUAL ERIC AND MARY WEFALD UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS LECTURE Political scientist and Machiavelli scholar Harvey C. Mansfield is the William 
R. Kenan,Jr., Professor of Government at Harvard University and author ofMachiavelli's Virtue and America's Constitutional Soul. He believes that we all favor responsibility but we have doubts about manliness, and asks in his lecture if there is a special manly responsibility we cannot do without? 
Thursday, September 10, 1998 7:30p.m. 141 DeBartolo Hall 
tions'J preference to stay in LaFortune," there isn't enough centralized space to accommo­date everyone. Instead, the offices once used for the publi­cations are now shared space for clubs such as multicultural 
organizations  and  College  
Hepublicans  and  College  
Democrats.  

Although student morale about the new offices may not bn high, others are optimistic about the change. 
"The facilities are great," said Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of Student Affairs. "They came out better than anyone expected." 



Prof cl)-aut'fiors CD-ROM text 
Special to The Observer 
The third edition of "Business Forecasting," coauthored by University of Notre Dame econo­mist Barry Keating, rece:ntly became the first book,~n ijte subject to include a CII;;RQJ\1, making it possible to access all of the book's text and data sets without ever turning a page. 
Published by Irwin/McGraw­Hill and also available in Spanish, "Business Forecast~i)lg" is the best selling book in the field. It is both a trade and acad­emic title, written for students as well as business professionals involved in market research, investments. auditing and sales. In addition to teaching forecast· ing methods, Keating and coau­thor J. Holton Wilson from Central Michigan University pro­vide comments from practition­


• ONE NIGHT SOCCER TOURNAMENT THURSDAY. SEPTEMBER 1o 
6:00 "STEPAN CENTER 
hour space. 
Cassidy, too, is pleased with the results of the move and believes the students should be as well. 
"(The offices] are much more technology friendly and the dark rooms, especially, got big­ger," said Cassidy. He admits that it would be "uncomfort­able for anyone to move in and get operational," but that the dining hall space will better serve the publications than LaFortune. 
As for how the students will adjust to the new surround­ings, both Cassidy and Kirk agree that only time will tell. 
"Their interest in coming here is based on a clear sense that graduates are well pre­pared to perform and produce immediately," he said. 
According to statistics from the 1997 graduating class, 148 out of the 208 accounting majors took jobs with Big 6 firms. and a full 90.4 percent of the students had post gradua­tion commitments. 
"That's really amazing when you look at other schools in the U.S.," Schaefer said. "It's an indication of how well-respect­ed the program is." 
Notre Dame has won acclaim for both its undergraduate and masters programs. 
The Public Accounting Heport, another industry newsletter, has ranked both the undergraduate program and the masters of accountancy as sixth in the nation. The survey is based on a poll of faculty members at colleges and uni­versities. 
One of the strengths of the undergraduate program lies in its Project Discovery curricu­lum change, which was led by 



The Responsible Man 
A lecture by Harvey C. Mansfield 
learning approach and a total business approach that allows students to see the big picture," Schaefer said. 
Kitchner agreed, saying that the Big 5 firms "appreciate multi-faceted and well-rounded graduates." lie added, "Our accounting majors have a soul and offer a broad perspective." 
The high ranking for the masters in accountancy is notable, because this is the first year it has been offered. 
There are many reasons for such a high percentage of grad­uates going to the top public accounting firms. 
"Accounting is one of the few majors in which a student can be directly brought into the profession," Schaefer said. "The firms have great training programs and reputations and offer great challenges early 
on." 

Many students use on-cam­pus recruiting opportunities to get internships, which can often lead to job offers after graduation. "It allows us to cul­tivate strong corporate rela­tionships with many firms that are mutually beneficial," 
Undergraduate Survey 
l. Uniwrsity of Texas 
2. 
University of Illinois 

3. 
Bri~ham Younl! Uniwrsity 

4. 
Uniwristy of South Carolina 

5. 
University of Michigan 

6. 
Uniwrsity of Notre Dame 


Graduate Survey 
I. Uniwrity ofTexas 
2. 
Brigham Younl! University 

3. 
University of Southern Cal. 

4. 
University of Illinois 

5. 
University of Michigan 

6. 
University of Notre Dame 


Suun·e: l'ublic Acrountinll Repu1·1 'l'hc ( )hscrvcr/Jcnnifcr Schuuf 
Kitchner said. 
Along with lucrative compen­sation packages. Kitchner said that a main reason graduates are attracted to these firms are that they "allow moving and growing, both geographically and within the organization." He also added that there are many excellent smaller firms with similar employment opportunities. 


Monday, September 7, 1998 
• 
Chinese control killer floods 
BHIIN<; 

Chini'SP l'rPsidnnt .Jiang ZPmin d!'clarl'd vit'lory Sunday ov1•r tlw worst l'looding to SWPI'p nortlwast China in dPradns but said till' rountry facl'd anotlwr bat.tl<' rPbuilding. 1-:!tding a tour of disastPr an•as in tlw north­l'ast. .Jiang praisl'd llw JWopln and military for working togl'tlu~r in combating till' flood­ing, stat<' mPdia rt•portnd. "Thn nation should l'atTy forth this spirit in !wiping tlw pPopiP to rl'sUmP produrt.ion and n~build thPir homl's," th1• Xinhua Nt>ws Agnncy quot1•d .Jiang as saying. l;looding causnd by rains thai fPII Parlil'r and hardPr than usual havl' kilh•d morl' than :LtJtltl JWopln nation­wid!' and )pft millions homl'lnss. J:ronomir loss<'s havn I'XI'I'I'dl'd !(,() billion yuan ($20 billion). Worst hit ha\'1' bl'l'n tltl' nortlll'ast and thl' Yangt11• Hiv!'r basin in l'l'ntral China. 
Nationalists claim victory in Maltese Election 
VAI.IFI'TA. Malta 

Thl' IPadPr ol' .~·!alta's Nationalist Party rlaim1•d virtory Sunday in parliamnnt.ary l'll'rtions and said hi' would movl' quickly to slt'l'ngth1•n ti1•s hl'lWI'I'n this tiny island nation and till' r<'st of l·:uropl'. l·:ddin Fmwrh Adami said Ill' would n~vivn Malta's bid for mPmbl'rship in th!' I fi-ml'mlll'r EuropPan Union, an pf'f'ort that had bl'nn frozl'n by tlw l.ahor !'arty of l'rinw MinistPr Alfn~d Sant. Sant. conrPding lw had failnd in his gambln that Parly PIPrtions would strl'ngthnn his party's otll'-votp majority in tlw ()fi-snat par­I i am" n t. rI' s i gIll' d . a II owing for FnIll' c h Adami to lw quirkly sworn in as the nnw ll'adl'r of Malta. Official rnstdts of Saturday's niPction wnrn nxpndnd sometime Monday, but party officials had access to partial talli1~s of thn handwritten ballots. 
Pope denounces horoscopes 
CASTEL GANDOLFO, Italy 

l'opP .John Paul II urged people Sunday to turn to prayer rallwr than psychics and astrology when tlwy'ro looking for guid­ancn, dnlivnring a tough nwssagn in a nation whnrn horoscopes and lur.ky lotto tlltmlll'rs prPol·cupy many . .John l'aul. spPaking from his window at his summer rnl.rPat outside Honw. noted it was a limn of yPar wlwn many were returning to school, rl'lurning to work, and laying plans for tlw fut.un•. If we want to plan our lives well, WI) must lnarn to deciplwr the design written in tlw mystnrious signals that Cod has put in our daily storins." tlw popn told tlw faithful gathnrl'd hPiow for his weekly Sunday Sjll'l'l'h. 
Composite 


Volume:

7640.25 H79.700,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

rn:a:U'cU::ll~ nrl!iEU 'H1 fU~t~HiE s~itll~ I'IUrl 
t\rnu.o A\ .it.U I 0000 4 0000 
IIY\1 2H.20 II.Kll.S i.M7S

::~,·-~~:,·~ ~·-·~·.•11 IIIYI 27.9.{ 1 1IJ75 K.H750 
illln.L\t•utll /Nil 27.4.! I.Oh75 4.1J.i75 
\h.u1~ !'{•fro 'Ill 21.91 I .j.\75 H 0000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

llt·ll.tlllliHlt:l.al IJIL -2-l.bZ -z.oooo h.\250 ''ldflol 1\,\bl•J ISA -2..Uill -J.K750 0.01100 lndm 111\lr IIlli -21.47 -2 1K75 H.OOOO /'olll i\0\l'.H CIID -20 . .\1 ·2.4.17; IJ,5625 ltl\lt'l n.P -l7.Q5 -tl.R750 4.000(1 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Despite rumors, Kabila attends summit 
A'iSOCIATED PRF$S 
VICTOHIA FALLS 
Congo's President LaurPnl Kabila arrived in this northwestern Zimbabwean resort Sunday, laying to rest fears lw would boy1:ott a summit aimed at 11tHiing tl11~ war in Congo. 
Tlw talks. convetwd by Zimbabwe !'resident H o Ill' r t M u gab n. were schndull'd to begin on Monday. 
A Congolese govnrnnwnt spokesman said Sunday that Kabila would only agren to a coasn-l'im in the fivP-wnnk-long war if' Bwanda and Uganda with­drPw tlwir troops. 
. Kabila has been trying to suppress an insurgnney since Iate .July. but the rPbnls. whom he claims are aided by Hwanda and Uganda. now control a quartnr of tho vast miner­al-ri<:h central African country. 
ThP ndwls. who w11re not ineludnd at two prnvi­ous summits over the past month. wnre also nxpnclnd to attend. Until now, Kabila's government has steadfastly rel'used to speak to them. prnl'erring to address Hwanda and Uganda. 
"Anybody involved in the Congo [whol can make a contribution to bring peace to the country is W!)feome to the Victoria Palls confer­once," Zimbabwe's foreign affairs minister Stan Mudenge was quoted as saying by the South African Press Association. 
Other loaders who arrived Sunday included Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni. Rwandan President Pasteur 


Bizimungu, Mugabe and Zimbabwe, Namibia and secretary-general of tho Angola have all sent sol­Organization of African dim·s to back Kabila. Unity, Salim Ahmed Salim. Rwanda, Uganda and 
"This summit should Angola elaim that Congo bring peace to the Congo," provides safe haven to Museveni told reporters. their opponents. 
The conl'lict is the Hwanda and Uganda largest threat to security in have denied sponsoring tl11-1 Central Africa in years and insurgents, although has drawn in troops from Uganda says it has troops several countries. in Congo under an earlier 
border patrol agreement. Rwanda has threatened to intervene to defend its own security interests. 
Congo's Information Minister Didier Mumengi told reporters Sunday in the eapital, Kinshasa. that before any cease-fire. Rwandan and Ugandan troops rn ust leav11 the country. 
• NOVA SCOTIA 

Divers recover data recorder 
AssOCIATED PRESS 

HALl PAX 
Divers battling murky, choppy seas found crucial clues on the ocean floor Sunday -one of the two flight recorders of Swissair Flight 111 and three large pieces of wreckage believed to be the plane's fuselage. 
It was a major broakthrough for investigators, who previously had gathered little concrete evidence to shed light. on why the MD-11 jetliner plunged into the sea Wednesday, killing all 221) people on board. 
Another search team, using air· borne gas-dntnction oquipment, said it had located 19 concentrations of human remains on the seabed. Douglas Copp of American Rescue Team International said it was too early to tell how many bodies might be at those locations. 
Vic Gordon, thn chief crash investi­gator, said the flight-data recorder retrieved by divers would be flown to 
'COME OF (THE PIECES OF THE 
.::JwRECKAGE) ARE SQUASHED. 
IT'S IN VERY POOR SHAPE, BUT IT IS VISIBLE AND JT LOOKS LIKE AN 
AIRCRAFT RJSELAGE.' 
CAPT. PHIL WEBS1'E11 

a laboratory in Ottawa for examina­
tion. If it's in good condition, it would 
provide more than 100 types of teeh­
nical data that could help explain 
why the plane's cockpit filled with 
smoke and why the pilots' emergency 
conversation with traffic controllers 
was cut oft' six minutes before the 
crash. 
The so-called black box and the 
wreckage were found live miles ofT­
shore at a depth of 190 feet by divers 
working with hand-held sonar 
devices. Gerden said the 12 divers were able to work at that depth for only about seven minutes at a time, with thoir visibility limited to about 10 feet. 
Divers will continue searching for the second black box -the cockpit voice recorder that would reveal other noises in the cockpit in addition to the already availahl1~ convorsation with controllers. 
The flight-data recorder was found near the three large pieces of wreck­ago. 
"Some of them are squashed. It's in very poor shape. but it is visib}(! and it looks like an aireraf't fustllage," said Capt. Phil Webster, a navy spokesman. 
Help for the S(larrhers was on its way. The USS Grapple, a U.S. Navy rescue and salvage ship that assisted in the deep-sea investiga t:ion of tlw TWA Plight 800 crash in 1996, embarked Sunday from Philadelphia, bound for the search area. 
-~-~--~­




VIEWPOINT 
·page6------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------Monday, September 7, 1998 
THE OBSERVER Re\lUBL\ClW£' Z· POINT PlAN lV WIN 1\.t£\R M\D· 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAltY's OH!CE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 

TERM ELECT\ONG... 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian RciiHhalcr Kyle Carlin 
A."SISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher MacKenzie 

NEWS EmTOR .......... Michdle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ..............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........... Brett Huelar SPORTS EDITOR........ . ......... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouiller SCENE EDITORS... . ............. Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER... .. .................. Dave Rogero 
Kri<ti Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ............ Kevin Dalum 
!'he Observer is rhc indc:pc:ndcnr ncwsp.1pcr published by the smdenrs ofthe University ofNoue Dame duLac .md S.\int M.uy's College. lt doe:. not net:t.'l\.<;,\r\ly rctl~ct the policies of the administr-ation ofeither institution. Th~ news i!i fl'Jl<lflcJ JS accur;udy Jnd objectively as possible. Unsigne-d editorial~ repre;ent the: opi11ion of rhe majority of rhc Etliwr~in-Chicf Managing Edirur. A~istaJH Managing EJiror and dcp;tnrnem editors. Cornmemaries,leucrs and columns pn..-sc:m rlu: vit'WS ofthe author~. and nm nccess.1rily those ofThe Ob11ervcr. Vicwpoim space is available to :til members of d1e Notre ()amc/S;lim Mary's community .111d to all readers. The free exprcs..~ion ofvarying opinions through letter~ i!> c:ncnuragcd.. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phoco 631-5323 Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4 543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu Day Ediror/Viewpoim 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• !JiGGING DEEPER 
On the Human, the Canine, the Asinine 

The photographer at a wedding last summer approached me before the ser­vice and asked if I wanted to see a pic­ture of his kids. He then removed from his wallet a professional photo of two long haired dogs. posed with little bows on their head. Elated. the best man promptly reached for his own wallet and removed a picture of his two kids, also 
Aaron Kheriaty 

of the canine variety. The two married men, now fast frirmds. proceeded to dis­course on how much more convenient and rewarding it was having dogs rather than children. 
A few weeks latnr my aunt's dog developnd a brain tumor. The vetnrinar­ian referred her to a specialist, who treatnd cancer in animals. This fellow recommended an MRI for the dog before treating the cancer. The price tag of the pre-treatment procedure was $30,000. My aunt respectfully dndined the offer. 
Even though she turned it down, some pet owners out there must be taking advantage of it. I wond1~r if any of' them have medical insurance for Fido? After all. even if' you do have thirty thousand dollars to shell out for the MHI. presum­ably the subsnqwmt chemotherapy or radiation treatment will also cost every bit as much. This price tag, however, does not sound so unplausible when one considers the following fact: recent stud­ies have shown that the Western World, i.e., Europe and America, own more pets than ever and spend more money on pet food and veterinarians than the food costs of thn on tire Third. World. (Americans smile at the naivete of' those in India, who regard the cow as sacred.) 
Aaron Krieder recently accused our society (or maybe just the Notre Dame Administration) of "speciesism." by which he means the oppression of other animal species. To combat this injustice, Krieder has become a vegan, that is, he does not eat meat, eggs, or dairy prod­ucts. Some think this sounds a bit extreme. On the contrary, I think that 
\; 
(·t I 

KriedP-r has not gone far enough. At this very moment, for instance, he is ingest­ing millions of bacteria and other microbes.(Oh, what oppression, and simply because they happen to be small enough that he cannot see them). It is also quite possible that he crushed a few insects while walking to O'Shag this morning. I will also remind Krieder that wheat and carrots arc living species as well. We cannot discriminate against prokaryote, fungus, or vegetable species simply because we do not happen to be sentimental about them. So it seems that if the vegans are going to carry their reasoning to its logical conclusion, they will have a pretty difficult time of it. 

But I digress. Let us return to the intriguing suggestion of the photograph­er and best man that it is better for a husband and wife to have dogs, rather 
I 
}
~I )j
I 
Y1 J (I./
~/\...!-~~ 
than children. While it may be easier to potty-train dogs than children (though a certain chitsu I know is evidence to the contrary), it may be just as expensive to raise them. This will be true especially if' you want to give them a proper burial before they enter doggie heaven. 
In the early 70's there was an adver­tisement in Time magazine for pet own­ers to buy an eternal flame for their rab­bit's grave. The price tag to give Bugs a dignified burial was $5000. 
And let's face it, dogs are not always as interesting as children. Despite what primatologists and certain dolphin af!i­cionados were saying a few years back, you will never be able to teach your dog to acquire language. In fact, we cannot even teach our aped ancestors to speak the most simplistic language. Respectable scientists are now admitting that years of concentrated lessons given to chimpanzees have failed to teach them to communicate using symbols. 
Three psychologists, while trying to communicate with the famous chimp Washoe using sign language, have been rewarded for their valiant efforts by having their fingers bitten off. (Mr. Krieder, it seems that they can eat us, but we can't eat them.) 
Another pioneer of similar research, Dr. John Lilly, who claimed that dol­phins had all sorts of metaphysical and mystical knowledge. after ynars of trying to communicate with them. finally changed his profession. lin now studies the effect of mind-altering drugs on tho individual human consciousness. As Walker Percy commented, "lie jumped from a tank or dolphins into the tank of himself." 
In the last analysis, it sHerns that there are advantages to having children. All things considered, thorn is just no sub­stitute for good old homo sapiens. After all, teaching Spot to fetch the paper can never compare to hearing a child's first words. And, come to think of it, are we so sure that all dogs really do go to heaven? 
Aaron Kheriaty is a senior preprofes­sional studies and philosophy major. 1/is column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

• DooNf.SBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Love your enemy -it'll drive him nuts.' 
-Anonymous 






VIEWPOINT 
-Monday, September 6, 1998 OS~ERVER ------------------------------------------------page? 
• ND ANO THE NATIONAl PASTIME 
Notre Dame Boasts Rich Baseball History 
Thanks to Llw Gipp, Hockne, and Hudy. alltlw world knows about Fighting Irish football. I low many pnoplt~ know ol' the hasnhall contributions of tho sons of Notrn Damn'? ;\ fnw hundrml words is way too litlln to nxpn~ss tht~sn accomplishnwnts, butlt~L's takn a quick ovnrvinw. 
Cappy 


Gagnon 

Cap Anson was one of the lirst players in t.lw National ;\ssor.iation. the first Major Lnague, in 1R71. Cap was arguably Llll' most prorninm1t baseball figure in the ninnt1~enth century as player, manager and colorful eharacter. Cap played on Llw .Juanita's at Notm Dame. tho campus champions in the mid-I R(,o's. lin was thn playing managm· of thn Cubs back when that was a good thing. 
lkrt Inks was Notm Dame's top player in IRHR, the first year Notre Dame played games ofl' campus. lkrt had an undistin­guislwd carnnr in the majors, but the Ligonier, IN native was the favorite player of Ford Frick, who became Baseball Commissiorwr. Frick nwntiorwd Bnrt in his autobiog­raphy. 
Willin Md;ill had an inter­nsting pro career. lie pitchPd for Llw Irish in tlw vnry first varsity bast>lmll game, April of I H92. Thanks to Mt:Gill's pitching. thn Irish whipped Miehigan. Willie should have benn up to Llw dutl­ltmge, sincn he made his Minor Leagw~ debut in IXHIJ at the agP of 15! lie pitdwd a no-hittnr that year.tlw youngest man to ever do so. lie made his Major Lnague debut in IR<JO, winning tw1mty. While working his arm into shapn for his third Major League snasor1, Willie stoppml ofl' to gt~t the Irish var­sity program nfl' to a good start. Thn sore spots from Michigan were not pleast~d to sm~ tlw fiunous McGill in the box. 
Lou Sockalexis came along to Notre Damn five years later. lie had btHm nxpellod from lloly Cross for problnms with aleohol. Tho same fatP befell him at Notro Dame after a month on campus. Notre Dame loaned Sockalexis train and cab fare to Cleveland so he could sign with the Cltwnland Spidnrs. Firewater again brought down the Abnaki !\doni, but not befon~ lw. achitwed such famn that when the Clnvnland team needt~d a new nick­nanH~. they chose "Indians" in honor of tlw first Nativt~ American to play in the majors. Cleveland neodml the new nick­nanw in 1915 bm:auso their manager, Dodt~ Birmingham from Notn~ Dame, had bmu:lwd tlw playnr, Nap L<~joie, lilr whom they wert~ then named the "Naps." 
In the first decade of this century, sev­l~ral nwn from Notre Dame played signifi­eant Major Lt~ague roles. Ed Heulbach was one of the grnatest pitchers, ~lw only man to pitch a double header shutout, the first man to pitch a ono hitter in the World Series, and the first man to win throe consm:utivn winning percentage titles. 
Hed Murray was a great fielder, slug­ger, and baserunnt-11', finishing second in stolen bases throe times. Two of the times Heel finished second, the leader was Notre lhunt~'s Bob Bescher, who led four times and held the National League record for fivo decades. Bert Daniels, though not quito as aceomplished as the others, had a unique talent-he was struck by pitch­es at a rate surpassed by only ono batter in bast~ball history. Cy Williams won four home run titles in the majors. A dead-pull hitter, the first "Williams Shift" was creat­ed because of Cy. 
John Mohardt came to Notre Dame shortly aftt~r World War I. Mohardt had dropped out of high school in the tenth grade. The Irish accepted him, in consid­eration of his intolleetual abilities and a:thletie talents. By the time his athletic cart)er ended eight years later, he had earned All-American recognition while blocking for George Gipp, played with Red Grange on the Bears, played with Ty Cobb on the Tigers, 
earned his MD from Northwestern, and completed surgical residency at the Mayo Clinic. Gipp played three base­ball games for Notre Dame, even though it was reputed to be his best sport. 
Ed Walsh, Jr. was not nearly as good a pitcher as his Hall of Fame dad, who came to Notre Dame to help coach him, but he did hold an accomplishment. While in the minors, young Walsh stopped Joe DiMaggio's hitting strnak at 61 games! Young Walsh once pitched a big lea),'lle game with Billy Sullivan, Jr., also from Notre Dame, as his catcher. This remains the only game in Major League history whore sons of a Major League battery comprised a Major League battery. 
There were two men from Wisconsin namt)d Red Smith in the class of' 1927 at Notro Dame. One became the first Pulitzer Prize-winning sports writer, the other played Major League baseball and professional football. Two other Notre Damn men from the '20's had significant baseball creations. Bert Dunne had a one­year Minor League career after a line Notre Dame performance. He is bottor known as the inventor of the batting tee and the writer of baseball instructionals and hitting films. Arch Ward displayed no athletic talent here, but became a great sports writer and creatod the All-Star Game. 
The same year Ward created the All­Star Game, 1933, Notre Dame's Frank Shaunessey saved the minor leagues by creating the "Shaunossey Plan." This post-season playofl', modeled after hock­ey, added spice to late season games, keeping fan enthusiasm at a high level 
during the depths of the 
Depression. 

Rubert Mills 
drowned in 
1929 

while 
saving 
his best 

friend in an boat­
ing accident. At that 

time, Mills was about to win election as Sherifl' of Essex County, New Jersey. Fourteen years earlier, Mills was the only New Jersey native on the NewFeds, the Federal League team from Newark. 
Mills put his Notre Dame Law degree to work in 1916. The Federal League had folded after two costly years competing with the American and National Leagues. Mills insisted that the team pay for the remaining year of his contract. The team refused, claiming that Mills would not be paid because he was not playing. Mills complied by going to the ballpark every day and participating in his own work­outs. After a few weeks, the franchise relented and paid ofl' Mills. While at Notre Dame, Mills once earned four athletic monograms in tho same season. The first man to do this, Dutch Bergman, also played for the (guess what'?) Clnvnland Sockalexi. 
John Mel I ale played for the 1945 World Series Champion Dotroit Tigers. lie was latnr named Major Lnague Executive of the Yoar during a forty-year cameras Scouting Director, General Manager, Team President, and Loague Vice President while serving the Tigers, Braves and Expos. 
Notro Dame had a few 1950's "bonus babies," including Diamond Jim Brady. Brady picked up thmo economics degrnos here and became tho presidont of Jacksonville Univorsity. lie was followed to Notre Dame and the Majors by a high school teammate, Jim llannan, who would later be the founding president of the Major League Baseball Players Alumni Association. llannan wrote his master's thesis on the Major League Baseball Pension Plan. 
Carl Yastrzemski carne to Notre Dame in 1957, playing only one year of frosh­man baseball before signing with the Boston Hod Sox. I lis MVP year of 1967 led the Bosox in their Impossible Dream year. 
Ron Heed had a long earner as a Major League pitcher. lie was a much better hoopster at Notre Dame, winning All­American mention in 1965. flo 
could dunk like Michaell.lordan), when dunking was uncommon. He was one of two men from Notro Dame named Heed 
(Billy was the other) who played Major League base­ball and prolilssional bas­ketball. 
In the 1960's, Dan McGinn. a 1')66 class­mate of mine, aehievnd 
three large Major Lnague accomplish­ments With the 
Montrnal Expos. lie hit the first homo run for the expansion Expos, won the first game pitched on for­eign s.oil, and pitched a three-hit shutout to 
stop a Tom Seaver winning streak at six­tetm. Dan puntt~d for 
the Irish football team and earned the nick­name "Dangerous 
Dan." Dan's catcher at Notre Dame, Hich "Moose" Sauget, had a long Minor League carem· but novnr got 
into a Minor League game, despitn being with the Atlanta Braves for one week. Hich wrote his master's thosis on the oeonom­
ic impact to St. Louis, of the 196 7 World Series. Last October, Craig Counsell knocked 
in the tying run and scored the winning run for the Florida Marlins. Last month, left-handed pitcher Chris Michalek became the 70th Major Leaguer from Notre Dame when he pitched two games for the Arizona Diamondbacks. The gen­eral manager of tho Diamondbacks is Jon Garagiola, Jr., who graduatod from ... well, you get the iclna. 
Notre Dame-a baseball faetory. 

Cappy Gagnon NJJ '66 is writing a book {1\nson to Yaz) about the history ofbase­ball at Notre Dame. Cappy is the Coordinator ofStadium Personnel for Notre Dame and supervises student employees in the Notre Dame Security Police Department. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

---------------; 
OTHE 
---------------Monday, September 7, 1998
BSERYER 
She says this ... 
By CASEY MCCLUSKEY about his brain Scene Movie Critic child and his 

She says that ... 
"54" ByJILLIAN DEPAUL die or the movie, when he finally puts on Scene Movie Critic a shirt. 
The concept of Studio 54 is every college student's dream in life -a huge party that never ends, where only the most fabulous people are allowed, and where th.e alcohol and sex are never ending. This was the dream of Steve Rubel!, played by Mike Myers, and Studio 54 was his way to make this dream a reality. In his feature debut, writer and director Mark Christopher attempts to recre­ate this surreal world of sex, drugs, and rock and roll, or disco at least, in his movie "54." 
The story is told through the wide eyes of Shane, who dreams of escap­ing his working-class life in New Jersey by making it into the elite class of Studio 54 in Manhattan. Shane, played by Byan Phillippe, makes it into the exclusive club because of his innocent' face and flawless physique. 
Almost immediately, Shane lands a job working in the club and becomes part of the Studio 54 family. He befriends a 
a n Anita. Greg 
is a 
b u s 
boy 
i n 
t h !l 
club who has dis­
() 
advance­
ment are very slim as long as he 
remains faithful Anita, played 

Mike Myers stars in "54," a drama about the infamous Studio 
by Selma els involv­
54. What concerns Scene is whether or not his performance 
Hayek, a ing these
is especially dramatic, or just another Saturday Night Live­
c o a t esque impression. c h e c k girl who 

has dreams of becoming the next 
disco queen. 

Trying to complete his escape from 
New Jersey and his family, Shane moves in with Greg and Anita to learn the ropes. l-Ie catches on quick­ly to all of the dirty little secrets of ·the Studio and figures out what he must do to become a star. Thus, he allows Studio 54 to envelope him into 
its magical mystique. 

As nice and complete as that story 
may sound, however, "54" left much 
to be desired. Biting off more than he 
could chew, Christopher included so 
many story lines in the movie that 
each plot was underdeveloped and 
unsatisfyingly explored. The film 
almost made the viewer feel as if he 
or she suffered from attention-defecit 
disorder. 

Shane first appears with his family, 
and there is obvious tension between 
Shane and his father. But the plot 
never goes into the details of this 
relationship, leaving the audience to 
speculate about m:igin of this tension. 
A character that was completely 
underdeveloped was Steve Bubell, 
Studio 54's owner. This movie was dream, yet his character, who was 
Directed By: Mark 
In the opening lines far more interesting 
of "54," a movie writ-than Shane's, was 
Christopher 
ten and directed by not in the movie 
first-time feature enough for the 
Starring: Ryan Phillippe, 
director, Mark audience to really 
Christopher, the examine the depth 
Mike Myers, Neve 
1970s New York City of his personality. 
, b 
dance club Studio 54 One of the very few 
Camp ell and Salma 
is heralded as a place bright points in this 
Hayek 
that broke all the movie was Mike 
rules and made 
Myers. Hather than L_______________ dreams come true. 
playing a goofball character to whieh he is most accustomed, Myers jumped into this dramatic role with both feet. Making himself look fright­eningly similar to the real Steve Hubell, Myers brought this eccentric and bizarre man back to life with much conviction. One was definitely far more interested in him than in any of the several other plot lines. 
Even the relationship between Shane, Greg and Anita, which is the most developed in the movie, remains completely inad­equate when Christopher con­tinues to add 
new twists 
and turns 
to this 
peculiar 
t r i o . 
Christopher fails at creat­ing a complex and intricately woven relationship that exists on 
Photo Courtesy at Miramax 

many lev­
t h r e e 
charac­
ters. With so many twists and turns, the trio's relationship remained superficial on the screen, because none of these twists were developed at all, and some were not even explained. 
One might expect that with the plot centering around a discotheque, a large part of the movie would involve disco music and the disco culture, but this was not the case. At times, Studio 54 fell into the background and became unimportant. The movie did little to explore the club as a character even though it did, in fact, have a persona all its own. Disco music was hardly even noticeable throughout the film, which was ironic due to the fact that the music was such a huge part of the culture. 
"54" was a weak attempt at depict­ing Studio 54 in the same raw man­ner that "Boogie Nights" portrayed the harsh reality of the porn indus­try. Unlike Dirk Diggler, "54" came up way too short. 
(OUT OF FIVE) 
However, one can hardly tell by watching the movie. 
This film attempts to give its audience a glimpse into the controversy that sur­rounded the infamous night-club within the framework of a plot centered around Shane O'Shea, a young kid from New Jersey, as he gets lured across the river into the sex-drugs-and­disco world of Studio 54. 
Shane, played by "I Know What You Did Last Summer" poster­boy Ryan Phillippe, gPts his foot in the door as a bus boy, and after learning the ins and outs of' the elub, like how to' make some nxtra cash by dealing drugs, works his way up to the high-pro­file position of' bartender. The man who was largely responsi­ble for creating this careless and often twisted world is Steve Rubell, convinc­ingly played by Mike Myers. 
"54" is riddled with inconsisten­cies and inade­quacies. Trying 
to remember Ryan Phillippe (with Neve Campbell) is the center of "54," an them all can uneven tale of the world of disco in the 70s. 
cause a headache, but the most obvious point is that the filmmakers did not know what they wanted this film to be about. They had a general premise and they had a whole slew of more speci!ic ideas to eom­pliment it, but instead of focusing on a few of these, they decided to try to do all of them. In turn, they sent the film run­ning in so many different directions at once that it got dizzy and fell apart right away. 
Studio 54 was actually an interesting part of our nation's culture in the seven­ties, and the film probably would have been more engaging had it not chosen to confuse itself by delving into the personal lives of the characters, who are not close to as interesting as the club. The glaring lack of focus in this movie prevents it from successfully conveying any coherent ideas or thoughts and greatly hinders any possibility of character development, whieh seems like an unlikely possibility since the main character, Shane, is entirely one-dimensional. 
What's more hurtful to the !ilm is that Byan Phillippe's portrayal of him is stag­nant and dull. One gets the idea that the actor was not hired for his talent since you can hardly recognize him in the mid-
The supporting cast of this movie, how­ever, is slightly more interesting. Brecken Meyer. the stoner from "Clueless," plays Greg, a hapless bus bDy who yearns to make it to the big-time as a bartender. Greg is married to Anita, played by Selma Hayak, a hat-eheck girl at the club who aspires to be the next Donna Summer. A rare highlight in the film was the perfor­mance of Heather Matarazzo, whose breakthrough role was in the critically acclaimed "Welcome to the Dollhouse." She plays Grace O'Shea, Shane's sister, but does not get nearly enough sere1~n time because her storyline, like many of the other storylines in this movie, is com­pletely underdeveloped. 
There is something to be said, though, for the performance of Mike Myers. Everyone knows him from his Saturday 

Photo Courtesy of Miramax 
Night Live personalities, most prominent­ly as Wayne from "Wayne's World," whose movie adaptation vaulted Myers into the big screen scene, and more recently, as last summer's "international man of mystery," Austin Powers. His role in "54" was being promoted as his first dramatic turn as a actor, and while his portrayal of Steve Rubell was genuinely captivating, it seemed as though he was merely doing another impression. It is as if the only difference between Myers playing Austin Powers and Myers playing Steve Hubell was that Steve Rubel! is not a figment of his imagination. Although his performance was the only source of depth in an otherwise shallow movie, one may argue that 'the only real test for Myers would be to play a normal person. 
Although Studio 54 may have broken all the rules in its day, "54" is oddly con­cerned with not ruffling anyone's feath­ers. Unfortunately, as this !ilm proves, it is impossible to do justice to a place as lawless as Studio 54 by keeping within the conventions of Hollywood. 

(OUT OF FIVE) 


~ 
'tSt:i vs.





IRISH INSIDER 


Monday, September 7, 1998 ------------------
page I 
Hail to the Victors! 

Hy KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Editor 
A
t first came l'lashns of bril­liancn, like when Irish tailback Autry Dnnson burst through the dnfensivn linn of Michigan for a 58­yard gain. 
Thnn cal!1(1 the barrage of excellence in tho second hall', highlighted by Notre Damn quarterback Jarious .Jackson's ofT-balance scramble and completion to Haki Nelson at the 10­yard line. Nelson's short run sealed tho upset victory over the defending National Champions and giving Notre Danu1 a rmwwed sense of success. 
Saturday's ganH1 markml a big tran­sition for Notrn Damn from last sea­son, yet !wad coach Bob Davif1 romains r!1SPrvnd about thn upset of the Wolvnrinns. 
"I told thmn aftnr thn game that this is a big win. but it will only be big at !his timn nPxt week if wn handle it right and wn go play wnll at Michigan Stall~." Davi() said about Notre Damn's :H>-20 victory. 
I'Prhaps tlw story of the gamn lies at the tailback position with senior Autry Denson's amazing performance of 162 yards on 24 carries, giving the best effort of his career. 
Or perhaps the story lies with the quarterback, Jarious Jackson, who became the eighth-straight Notre Dame quarterback to win his first game as a starter. 
"Anytime you have a quarterback that can move around a little bit, tho percentage of big plays goes up," Davie said. 
Jackson had four completions on 10 attempts with a single interception and two touchdowns. The quarterback gained 73 yards on 16 carries. He han­dled the pressure with relative ease. 
"I felt pretty good at halftime because I knew that number seven I J aekson I would get better in the sec­ond half, once he got feet on the ground and got some confidence," Davie said. 
Coming out of halftime, Notre Dame appeared stronger than they did ini­tially. The opening offensive sequence for the Irish in tho second half teamed up Jackson and Denson to pound down to the Michigan 15-yard line when kicker Jim Sanson nailed a 32-yard field goal to get Notre Dame to nine. 
"There was not much to say at the half," Denson said about what was talked about in the locker room. "We knew what we were doing wrong, and what we needed to do to win. We knew we had to capitalize on or chance dur­ing the second half and we did. During the second half we stepped it up and played like we knew we could." 
At this point in the game, the momentum began to shift. On the ensuing kickoff, Brock Williams dealt Wolverine tailback Clarence Williams a devastating blow knocking the ball loose. Tony Driver recovered the fum­ble for the Irish, which led to the Jackson to Dan O'Leary completion giving Notre Dame it's first lead of the game. 
"I think without a question that it was a game of momentum," Michigan head coach Lloyd Carr said. "We had some in the first half, but we didn't take advantage of the opportunities. Notre Dame got the momentum in the second hall', and then we turned the ball over. We had big plays in the sec­ond half where we got the opportuni­ties to score some points, and we didn't do it. So instead of turning tho momentum around, we maintained tho momentum for Notre Dame." 
The second key turnover, which sealed the Wolverines' fate, came on a blocked field goal attempt. Linebacker Jimmy Friday burst through the defen­sive line and got his hand on the ball. Cornerback Ty Goode recovered thn ball at the Notre Dame 48 yard line. 
"The two [Michigan I turnovnrs (Barly in the third quarter I really lw Ipod," Davie said. "They changnd the momnn­tum of that game. Both plays helpod." 
Michigan's offense appeared sloppy at times, yet it also showed flashes of brilliance with its freshman quarter­back and outstanding receivers Tai Streets and Marcus Knight. Michigan attained 24 first downs to Notre Dame's 19, mostly duo to those play­
ers. "That was obviously a big, big win," Davie said. "When you bncome a hnad 
see GAME I page 2 page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 7, 1998 

PLAYER OF THE GAME  Q!)OTE OF THE GAME  STAT OF THE GAME  
Jackson stole the spotlight but Autry  "He's like a boxer. He's taken some shots.  It was true Notre Dame football  36  
Denson gets the nod. The senior had the hcst perfomances of his career rushing for  And you know what he does? He fights back." -Greg Mattison  points, ten passing attempts. Lou Holtz would be proud.  
162 yards.  Defensive coordinator,  
about Irish head coach Bob Davie  

Little things add up to big victory 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
It was a tale of two halves;. one of apprehension and missed opportunities, another of confi­dence and assertion. But through it all, one force remained steady, consistent and dominant -the Notre Dame defense. 
Michigan's famed defensive unit was supposed to be power­ful and stingy. The Big Blue returned nine starters from 1997, when the defense finished the season at the apex. The Wolverines ranked first nation­ally in total defense, scoring defense and pass efficiency, allowing a mere 9.5 points and 
222.8 total yards per game. 
Yet it was the Irish who refused to be pushed around by' running backs Clarence Williams, Anthony Thomas and Justin Fargas. It was the Irish who recorded three sacks and forced four fumbles to fluster the Michigan offense and new 
quarterback Tom Brady. It was utes of time on the field in the the Notre Dame defense that first half alone, as Michigan ran shifted the momentum in the 54 plays. But the Wolverines third quarter with big plays. settled for two field goals and 
"I think what was different one touchdown in the first 30 this year was that we worked minutes. 
on the basics of football, tech­"We had a good rotation nique and footwork," said line­going, and we trained extremely backer Joe Ferrer, who sacked hard in the off-season," said 
Brady for a six-yard loss on a safety Benny Guilbeaux. "So critical third-down play early in [the heat] really wasn't a factor. the fourth quarter. "The little That's what we trained to do, things paid off, and the little and we were in shape for it." things amount to big things. If On the defensive line, seven 
we continue to work on the little players saw time against the things, our defense will become Wolverines -Anthony Weaver better and better each week." and Lamont Bryant at left end, 
A key for the entire Notre Antwon Jones and Lance Legree Dame defense was a liberal at nose guard and Brad substitution pattern that kept Williams, B.J. Scott and Jason 
the entire squad fresh despite Ching at right end. Eight players the humid conditions and tem­logged significant minutes at peratures in the upper 80s linebacker, including Ferrer throughout the .contest. and Kory Minor at drop backer, Frequent rotation and presea­Grant Irons and Anthony 
son preparation allowed the Denman at rush end and Jimmy defense to endure over 20 min-Friday and Ronnie Nicks at 
• GAME NOTES &Ouons 
Jarious Jackson became the eight Irish quar­terback to win his starting debut following in the footsteps of Tom Krug, Ron Powlus, Kevin McDougal, Rick Mirer, Kent Graham, Tony Rice and Terry Andrysiak. 
Autry Denson's 163 yards rushing marked his 18th career 1 00-yard rushing game, inching him closer to Allen Pinkett's Notre Dame record of 21 career 100-yards rushing games. His two touch­downs matched him with Stan Cofall with 30 career rushing touchdowns, fifth-best in Irish history. 
The last time the Irish beat a team ranked higher than Michigan (5) was a 31-24 win over top-ranked Florida State in 1993. 
Notre Dame hands Lloyd Carr is first loss dur­ing the month of September as head coach at Michigan. Carr had won all 10 games in September prior to today's game. 
Bob Davie: 
At some point, you better step up and win a big game ... and this confirms to the players that this will work. This is the biggest win I've ever had, right here. 
Jarious Jackson: 
I used to tell my family not to come to the games, to stay at home and save money. They're going to start coming to a lot of games from now on. 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr: We have no excuses. We had a lot of opportun­ties we didn't take advantage of. 
Michigan safety Marcus Ray: That wasn't Michigan defense out there. 36 points? Gosh. You can't win like that. 
Michigan receiver Tai Streets: 
You have to give Notre Dame credit. They changed their defense, stopped the run and came up big when the had to. 

inside linebacker. Inside line­backer Bobbie Howard led the Irish with 14 tackles despite sit­ting out most of the third and fourth quarters with cramps. Howard's back up, Joe Thomas, was impressive in his absence, recording three tackles, two unassisted. 
"The rotation was great," said Ferrer. "They ran so many plays in the first half that I think if one group had just been in the game, they would have real­ly worn our defense down. But the fact that we were rotating and you knew you had a substi­tute meant you could go 100 percent because you knew you had a quality guy ready to come in." 
"The key is that they've all paid 'the price, they've all worked through the summer, so whoever goes in goes in. And that's the difference," said defensive coordinator Greg Mattison. 
While the defense responded well to the Wolverine's pres­sure, holding them to 150 net yards on the ground, one glar­ing statistic is still cause for concern. Michigan fared well in their aerial attack, finishing the game with 322 passing yards. 
''I'm not concerned about the secondary one bit," said Mattison. ''I'm concerned about the pass rush. You can't be a secondary sitting out there while a guy gets 20 minutes to throw the ball. We've got to improve [the pass rush] in a hurry." 
There are still details to iron out before Saturday's Michigan State game, like the pass rush and eliminating mistakes in the red zone (pass interference on third and goal at the seven yard line). But looking at the big pic­ture, the Irish defense is clearly in focus. 

Senior tailback Autry Denson had his 18th 1 00-yard game in which he netted 163 yards and two touchdowns in Notre Dame's upset victory over Michigan. 
Game 
continued from pagel 
pie than yourself. I am so excited for the coaches and I'm so excited for this football team, because they sacrificed so much. They deserve it. They've worked hard and played hard. I think they played better as the game went on, which I think shows how much work they did in the offseason." 
"We've talked about 'If we do this, this and this, we'll win,"' Davie said. "At some point, you better step up and win.There's a point where you have to win a big football game ... I think [this win] jump-starts us." 
If the Irish learned one thing last sea­son, it was to never over look an oppo­nent and it will be key for the team to maintain it's intensity for the rest of the season. 
With this weekend's game comes the chance for Jackson and Co. to reclaim Notre Dame's rightful place and its reputation as a proven powerhouse. 
Quarterbacks: B 
Option football has clear­ly returned to Notre Dame. Jarious Jackson main­tained his composure after a sub-par first half. When pressured, Jackson scram­bl()d out or the squeeze, averaging Just under four yards a c11rry. With a con­sistent passing game, the Irish could be unstoppable. 
Running Backs: A+ 
Autry Denson amazed. Even wbenthe offense was cold ih the first half. Denson. was en· fuego with 7l yards on eight carries. The only difference now is he has a supporting cast in 
fullbac.ks Joey Goodspeed andJ&,wie S}:mncer. Redevers: B 
The Irish recievers didn't have a lot ofattempts to gettheir hands on. Despite only making four recep~ tions, including just one in the first half, two of them were for key touchdowns. 
Offensive.Une: A 
l)efending a quarterback that scrambles as much as Jackson and not letting up a sa<:k is key -especially when you're looking at the best overall defense last year that has returned nine starters. 
Defensive Une: A-
An "inexperienced line:?" The rotation worked brial­lantly as the defense never wore down. The unit kept 
Michigan away from the TDs six times when inside the 30-yard line. 
Linebackers: B+ 
A great group effort. Irons was the star of this group while Friday and Howard were solid but not spectacular. Joe Ferrar even got into the fun with a hugh sack, and filled in admirably for Howard. Minor appeared to be slowed by his ankle injury 
Defensive Backs: B-
Giving up 300 yards passing is a concern but Harper, Goode and Sanders made some plays and buckled down when they needed to. 
Special Teams: A 
Jim Sanson did his best Reggie Ho imitation with his consistency. Jimmy Friday's blocked field goal kept the momentum with the Irish. 
Coaching: A­
Davie and Co. had a garne plan and it worked. The second· half effort put 
into the spotlight how important the off-season w~ight program was. Only qvesW.lli.was poor usage of 
····.· tune.outs. 
Overall: 3.52 
..•. ]he.score says itall as .the ~liUad brought the ··Notte Pam.e footbaHithat 
waUdJove back; 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
Monday, September 7, 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Jackson rebounds from first half to ignite Irish 
By JOE CAVATO 
A.<soriatt· Sports Editor 
Wlwn .Jarious .Jackson was tlw haekup lw told his family not to conu• to South Bend on fall Salurdays. 
"I used to tPII my family to stay honw and save tlwir monPy," .Jackson said after sparking Notre Damn to a 36­20 win over Mkhigan. "In tho past for the tinw I playnd, tlwy could jusl watrh it on TV." 
Tlwy'll he l'oming to a lot of ganws from now on. 
Al"tPI' llw Wolverinn ddlmse swarnpnd .lat"kson and tlw option attat"k in tlw first half, thl' senior lead an ol'f'nnsive l'Xplosion in the sel:ond hall' and bl•ranw tlw l~ighth straight quartPrhal:k to win his starting ddnzt. 
.Jackson's first hall' brought worry to Irish fans as he over­thn~w open rm:l'ivnrs, got ham­mered hy tlw Michigan dd'ense, and evnn callml tlw wrong snap count when tlw Irish worn at lh() doorstnp of payrlirt. 
No one in thP locker room was worrind, least of all .I ackson. 
"l·:vnrybody l:anw in and wn wPrPn't down," .lal:kson said. "I was tPIIing evnryhody to keep your lwad up and bl~ positive. Things were going to happl~n for us." 
"I l'l'lt pretty good at half­tinw," lwad coarh Bob Davie said. "I kzww No. 7 would play lwttnr in tlw Sel:ond half once lw got his flH'l on lhe ground and lw go I some l:onlidnncn." 
"llonestly, I felt pn~tty eom­l'ortahln tlw entire game," .Jarkson said. "I l'olt it was just a matter of us exncuting. Thny wen~n 't stopping us in the first hall'. WP wPre stopping our­SI'IVPs" 
.Jackson n~kindlml thn past as IH' mad!' play after play with his 220-pound frame and spee d . Hu nn i n g lw h i n d an ol'f'ensive lirw that wore down tlw WoiVPrizw defense, Jackson ran for (,I yards in tlw sncond hair. 
Jackson brought to mind images of Tony Hiee and Kevin McDougal as he threw for just 96 yards on the afternoon but engineered l.ime consuming dri­ves that wen~ pure Notre Dame football. 
When asknd why he n~mained conlldnnt in Jackson the entire game, Davie cited practiec as his gnmtost resource. 
''I've seen him every day in praetiee," Davin said. ''I've seen him do sonw remarkable things and I've seen Jarious come hack. I've just senn him in situations bnforn and I knew he could play better, he kzww he could play better." 
Jal:kson showeased some of those things in leading Notre Damn to it's best offensive out­put in the 28 games of the Michigan series. 
Following a Michigan fumble Jackson puslwd the Irish to the goal line and tlum used a play­action fake and hit a wide-open Dan O'Leary in tlu1 ~md zone for the first Notre Dame touch­down. 
The Wolvorines coughed it up again, and on the next play Jackson took advantage. He bumped into his fullback and nearly fell bdore llring a strike to a streaking Haki Nelson for the next Irish touchdown mak­ing the score 23-13. 
"Somehow or another I held my feet," Jackson said about his second touchdown pass of the game. "When you run the type of ol"fllnse we run, there are going to be mistakes. You never know what's going to happnn." 
No onl~ would have guessed that the Irish would amass 280 rushing yards against what the top defense in the land last year giving up just 89 rushing yards a game. 
"This means a lot," Jackson said about the win. "It means wn ean compete against anyone in the country." 
"This goes in the record books in my mind," he contin­und. "I am proud of myself. and I am proud of this tnam today." 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Jarious Jackson was not intimidated by the Michigan defense as he ignited the Irish second-half rally. 


I Others receiving votes: Nonh Carolina I 02, Mississippi St, 90. . Colorado St. 83,Krnrucky 81, Oklahoma St. 45, Miami Ohio 40, Mississippi .34, Air force 29,Aiabama 26, Miami 24, Vir. Tech 14, Tulane Ij, Utah 13, Hostun College 12,Ceorgia Tech 11, 
Southern Miss. 9, Auburn 6, Cenr. Florida 6, Washington St. 5 Arkansas 4. Iowa 4, South Carolina 3, Brigham Young I, Toledo I 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
1st Quarter 2nd Quarter 
Team 
I. Ohio St. (3':1) 
2. Florida St. (22) 3. r:lorida (4) 4. Nebraska (2) 
5. 
K,msas St. (2) 

6. 
UCLA (I) 

7. 
LSU 

8. 
TPnn. 9.1'enn St. 10.Notre Dame 11 .Washington 


12.Virginia !).Michigan 14./\rizona St. 15.Georgia 16.Colorado 
17.Wisconsin 18.Texas A&M 19.5yrdCUSl' 20.Wt•st Virginia 21./\rizona 22.Southern Cal. 23.Texas 24.0rl•gon 25.Missouri 

Record  Pts  PV  
1-0  1,708  1  
1-0  1,667  2  
1-0  1,571  3  
2-0  1,546  4  
1-0  1,418  6  
0-0  1,394  7  
0-0  1,72':1  9  
1-0  1,274  10  
1-0  1,131  13  
1-0  1,104  22  
1-0  1,051  18  
1-0  963  16  
0-1  818  5  
0-1  737  8  
1-0  716  19  
1-0  619  
1-0  534  20  
0-l  487  14  
0-1  470  17  
0-l  445  11  
1-0  361  24  
1-0  287  
1-0  250  
1-0  141  
1-0  123  

• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING  
Scoring Notre Dame Michigan  lsi 3 3  2nd 3 10  3rd 17 0  4th 13 7  
Team Statistics First Downs Rushed-Yards  ND 19 293  UM 24 195  


Passing-Yards 96 322 Sacked-Yard Lost 3-29 0-0 Passes 10-4-1 44-28-1 Punts 2-44 2-31 Fumbles-Lost 1-0 4-2 
v

Penalties-Yards 5-32 4-30 Time of Possession 30:14 29:46 
s

Individual Statistics Rushing ND-Denson 24-163, Jackson 16-73, Goodspeed 9-43, Speneer 6-14 UM-Williams 13-115, Henson 1-17, Thomas 10-19, Fargas 4-15, Shea 1-7, 
Dreisbach 1-0, Jackson 3-4, Brady 5-18 
Passing 
NO-Jackson 10-4-1-96 

UM-Brady 36-23-0-267, Henson 8-5-0-55 
Receiving 

ND-Nelsnn 2-68, Johnson 1-24, O'Leary 1-4 
UM-Streets 8-101, Knight 5-126, Jackson 2-23, Tuman 2-15 



3rd Quarter 4th Quarter 
UM-Baker :{6-yard field goal  UM-Feely 21-yard field goal  ND-Sanson 32-yard field goal  ND-Denson 3-yard run (Sanson kick)  
ND-Sanson 32-yard field goal  ND-Sanson 27-yard field goal  ND-O'Leary 4-yard pass from  ND-Denson 1-yard run (Sanson kick)  
UM-Brady 1-yard run (Feely kick)  Jackson (Sanson kick)  UM-Tuman 8-yard pass from  
ND-Nelson 35-yard pass from  Henson (Feely kick)  
Jackson (Sanson kick)  

page 4 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 7, 1998 

The Observer/John Daily 

NOTRE DAME 36 MICHIGAN 20 
NOTRE DAME STADIUM SEPTEMBER 5, 1998 
"IT'S CALLED PLAYING OUT OF YOUR CHEST. YOU PLAY WITH A LOT OF HEART AND SOUL THAT'S WHAT WE WERE ALL ABOUT TODAY." 
-AUTRY DENSON 


s~ THEn 


Monday, September 7, 1998 ~-c-.. ----------------OBSERVER ----------------------page9 
Photo Courtesy of Warner Brothers Gene Wilder stars as the weird but very intrigu­ing Willie Wonka in "Willie Wonka and the ~hocolate Factory." 
• VIDEO PtCK OF THE WEEK 
By MICHAEL VANEGAS A,siswnt Scene Ediwr 
In a fnw years, many of us will further our trnk into adulthood by gdting mar­rind and having kids. This should lead many to wondnr how they will grapple with thosn nnw wsponsibilitins -nspn­l:ially that parnnting thing. 
Fortunately, somn panmts (today and in thn futurn) will lw able to mly on that good ol' Disnny animation studio for what might n~plaen Llw baby-sittnr ­tlw full-lPngth npie movin cartoon musi· raJ. This is now an annual givnn in tho somntimPs unprt~di1:tabln box oiTien SCI'Ill'. ,\nd it iS basically king of thP vidno storn. 
l!ut how many Linii'S ran a mom and dad listPn to 
" II a k u n a 
1\latat.a" or "A WholP NPw \\'orld'.'" And do parPiltS rPally want thPir rhil­dr,•tt to dt>pPtHI 1111 rartoons for nwral guidanrP't Probably not. 
That iPavns an PlllptinPss in that PV1•r-important rnalm of mom­dad-kid rnovins. And this emptinnss can only bn liiiPd by a small mimbnr of films -thn most fun bdng "Willin Wonka and tlw <:lwr.olat1• Fadory." 
For thosn unfamiliar with "Wonka," it is thP story ol' a small boy, Charlie, whosn drnam of lifting his family from m:onomil: <Institution is rnalized whnn thn local candy-making recluse announcns a 'goldon ticket' contest. Tho live lw:ky pnopln who lind a golden tick­nt in their chocolate win a tour of Wonka's (thn rnduse) famed ehoeolatn l'actory. 
lnnvitably, Charlin finds tho ticket, and visits Llw l'actory with his Grandpa Jon. 
YPt Llw rnovin is not at all about this ollwrwis(~ uninteresting contest and prizn, but about tlw sinful nature of humanity. Through the live winners, all who happ1•n to bn children, several dan­gnrs aro prnsented. 
Veruea Salt is the all-around spoiiE1d brat. Violet Beauregarde is the control­ling, gum-addicted big-mouth. Augustus Cloop is the glutton, and Mike Teevee is that kid whose baby sitter is the tolevi­sion set. 
And then there is Charlie, tho overall good boy whose naivete and curiosity can get him into trouble; but whose ulti­mate moral acumen wins in tho end. 
The story is paced with short morality tales that spell doom for each character involved. Needless to say, naeh charac­tl~r is punished or rewarded for their resp1~ctive faults. 
Tho most entertaining aspect of tho movie comes when each character is punish1~d and banished, as Wonka's well­cared-for yet slavish green­haired and orange-faced lit­tle men come out to sing tlw catchy "Oompa· l.oompa song" basically restating what was wrong with tlw relevant child and why that child was not worthy of' continuing thn 
tour. 

This brings tlw point of' this review back to parental responsibility. "Wonka," if anything, provides new par­ents with guidelines on how to raise a child. Sure, Disney makes bundles of bucks with its colorl'ul portrayals of the animal kingdom and Greek mythology. But can it scare a child into submission? The answer is no. 
For this, "Wonka" is the number one choice. This is especially obvious when the spooky side of Wonka is manifested throughout the film -in his noncha­lance concerning his visitorr.;' possible deaths, in his verbal attack against Charlie at the end of the tour, and in his whacked-out boat ride that forces one to remember that this film was made in 11)71. 
But still, the !ilrn has a happy ending, which wraps up this sweet lesson that all parents and children can and should get out of this dassie fantasy. 

At the theaters 
Knock Off (Sony} Phoenix (Trimark} like It Is (First Run) 
Source: Hollywood.com 

At the video store 
Titanic (Paramount} 
Barney's Great Adventure (Polygram} Wild Things (Columbia) 

• CHART*TOPPERS 


Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 
1. Titanic ($600 million) 2. Armageddon ($188. 5 million) 
3. 
Saving Private Ryan ($155.3 million) 

4. 
As Good As It Gets ($147 .6 million) 

5. 
Deep Impact ($140. 3 million) 

6. 
Good Will Hunting( $138.3 million) 

7. 
Dr. Dolittle ($138. 1 million) 

8. 
Godzilla ($135.7 million) 

9. 
Tomorrow Never Dies ($125.2 million) 

10. 
Lethal Weapon 4 ($125.0 million) 


Source: The Hollywood Reporter 

Video Title 
1. 
The Wedding Singer 

2. 
Good Will Hunting 

3. 
jackie Brown 

4. 
U.S. Marshals 

5. 
Wag the Dog 

6. 
Sphere 

7. 
The Man in the Iron Mask 

8. 
Hard Rain 

9. 
The Big Lebowski 

10. 
Dark City 


Source: Billboard Online 


Video Sales 
1. 
The Black Caldron 

2. 
Austin Powers 

3. 
jerry Springer-Too Hot 



For TV! 
4. 
Spice World 

5. 
As Good As It Gets 

6. 
Pearl jam: Single Video Theory 

7. 
Grease: 20th Anniversary Edition 

8. 
Backstreet Boys: All Access Video 

9. 
jerry Springer -Best OJ 

10. 
Image Of An Assassination 


Source: Billboard Online 
.. 
Monday, Spetember 7, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 10 
• Nfl 
Packers, Jaguars victorious in opening week action 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. 

Forget about the dueling MVPs. This was about dueling kick returners. And once again, Green Bay prevailed. In the first matchup of reigning MVPs 
in NFL history. Brett Favre's Packers beat Barry Sanders' Detroit Lions 38-19 on Sunday. 
Or was it Roell Preston's Packers over Terry Fair's Lions? 
Sanders' streak of 14 consecutive regu­lar-season 1 00-yard rushing games came to an end as he gained 70 yards in 17 earries. Favre was a workmanlike 23-for­31 for 193 yards and a touchdown before hooking up with Antonio Freeman for an 84-yard TO toss with 1:53 left. 
But the kick returners stole this show. 
Fair. a rookie from Tennessee, returned a kickoff 101 yards for a TO as the third quarter ended, pulling Detroit to 24-19. 
"It really changed the tempo of the game," Lions receiver Herman Moore said. 
For all of 22 seconds. 
Preston promptly retorted with a 100­yard TO return to restore Green Bay's 12-point lead, 31-19. 
"By golly, we let them right off the hook," Lions coach Bobby Hoss lamented. 
"It was like deja vu all over again," said Fair, who saw the same thing happen to him in the Arizona state championship back in high school. 
"When they scored, I just knew I had to do something," Preston said. 
Fair's attempt at a third straight TO ended at his 24. when tired tacklers Bill Schroeder and Hoosevelt Blackmon fin­ished the madness. 
"Some guys were putting on the oxygen masks after that," Packers special teams ace Travis Jervey said. 
"I didn't like the first one," Green Bay defensive end Heggie White proclaimed. "But the second one was beautiful." 
Packers coach Mike Holmgren couldn't have received a better response. 
"It was huge, because the momentum shift that takes place when you have one against you· is big," Holmgren said. "It kind of got quiet there. But then those guys rallied. The return team got in there kind of mad because it's a lot of the same people who just gave up the return." 
Fair returned six kickoffs for 244 yards and Preston returned four for 163. The Packers have won 28 straight games at Lambeau Field, inCluding four 
playoffs. 
They ran their streak to 37 quarters without allowing a TD pass before Scott Mitchell's 25-yard seoring strike in the third quarter to Moore, who caught nine passes for 100 yards despite a torn groin muscle. 
The TD capped a drive that began at the 50 thanks to Fair's 49-yard return. But Mitchell's 2-point conversion pass failed, leaving the Lions down 17-12. 
The Paekers ate up nearly 10 minutes on an 18-play, 85-yard drive capped with a 6-yard touchdown pass to Freeman over cornerback Bryant Westbrook with 17 seconds left in the third quarter. And they did it with Robert Brooks, playing less than a month after a back operation, was eatching a breather. 
The Lions answered in a llash. 
Fair returned the kickoff 101 yards and the Lions were down just 24-19 entering the fourth quarter. 
Preston matched the magic with a return that began with him winding through tacklers and ended with him gy1:ating to the fans and diving into the end zone. 
"That's my trademark," he explained. 
"We made the right decision keeping him," strong safety LeRoy Butler said of Preston, who beat out Glyn Milburn. 
The Packers jumped to a 17-3 lead, turning Detroit's first possession into seven points. 
On fourth-and-inches from his 41, Mitchell tried a sneak, but he went into the pile standing straight up instead of getting his pads low and was spun around by tackle Santana Dotson. 
Linebacker Brian Williams stripped the ball and Butler scooped it up, rumbling 32 yards for a 10-0 lead. 
"The basis for my thinking there was we needed one inch," Ross said. "On top of that, we have to try to keep the ball out of Favre's hands." 
Jason Hanson kicked field goals from 47 and 43 yards for Detroit in between Dorsey Levens' 4-yard TO run for the Packers. Levens gained 59 yards on 25 carries a week after he ended his con­tract holdout. I le also caught seven pass­es for 38 yards. 
"I guess that's their definition of work­ing me in slowly," Levens said. 
Jaguars 24, Bears 23 

Trailing by six with the clock ticking down, Mark Brunell looked around the huddle and said three simple words. No fiery speech, no screaming, no plead­ing. 
Just a calm, "Let's go guys." Then he led the way, taking the Jaguars on an 87 -yard game-winning drive Sunday as Jacksonville rallied to beat the Chicago Bears 24-23. 
"There wasn't anything that was a miracle statement or any 'Rah! Rah!"' 
· Brunell said. "It was just. 'Hey, let's go. Let's go do it.' .We know we can do it better than what we're playing. And the guys responded." Brunell was 8-for-9 and threw for 73 yards on the drive, hitting Jimmy Smith with a 4-yard TD pass with 29 seconds left. He finished the game 22-for-35 for 207 yards and two touchdowns. It was the third straight victory on opening day for Jacksonville, touted in the preseason as a Super Bowl con­tender. "We made a lot of errors." Jaguars coach Tom Coughlinsaid. "I am pleased to win the game. but we have a lot of things to be corrected before we can expect to win consistently." The loss was just the third in 15 openers for Chicago, though the Bears came close to an upset thanks to Curtis Enis. The fifth overall pick in the draft missed almost all of training camp in an acrimonious holdout and still doesn't know the entire Chicago offense, but he set up two late scores with a series of barreling runs. Enis finished with 77 yards on 12 car­ries, and probably would have had one of the scores himself, but he asked to be taken out after getting the Bears to the Jacksonville 1. Edgar Bennett punched it in and put Chicago ahead 20-17 with 
8:50 left in the game. 
"He was exhausted," coach Dave Wannsted t said. "We were really encouraged by what he showed. I think everybody should be excited. We just have to get him in shape." 
The Bears blew a chance to wrap up the game on their last scoring drive. Enis brought Chicago to the Jacksonville 32, and Erik Kramer con­nected with Bobby Engram on a 21­yard pass to the Jaguars 4. But Chicago stalled and settled for Jeff Jaeger's 19­yard field goal to make it 23-17 with 
4:08 left. 
"That was the key to the game," Coughlin said. "If Chicago scores a touchdown there, no drive of ours makes a difference." 
Starting at his own 13, Brunell 
marched Jacksonville down the field. The only hitch was when Smith fumbled a short reception, but he recovered the ball and Brunell completed the next three passes to get to Chicago's 37. 
Brunell dropped the snap on the next play, but picked it up and scrambled for 8 yards and a first down. A15-yard pass to Keenan McCardell moved the ball to the 6. 
After James Stewart rushed for 2 yards, Brunell hit Smith to win it. 
"We knew going into the huddle that they weren't going to stop us," McCardell said. "When we get that feel­ing, it's hard for anybody to stop us." 
Smith caught nine passes for 90 yards, and McCardell eaught sHven for 72 yards. Stewart rushed for 115 yards and a touchdown on 26 carries. 
Kramer, who missed almost the entire week of practice with a sprained toe, was 16-of-27 for 189 yards. Edgar Bennett rushed for 30 yards and one touchdown on 13 carries. 
The Bears, expected to finish at the bottom of the league, caught the Jaguars -and their own fans -by surprise early. They forced three fum­bles in the first half and converted them into two field goals for a 13-7 halftime lead. 
"I don't even know what to say," Bears defensive end Mark Thomas said. "We came out with emotion. We came out playing hard. We forced turnovers. We did everything that we wanted to do. It just goes back to what's happened in the past. We've just got to find a way to win." 
The Bears also had the most bizarre play of the gaine. After Jacksonville's only score of the first half, Glyn Milburn caught the kickoff at his 12 and took off up the middle with a clear path to the end zone. 
Kicker Mike Hollis tried to upend him at Jacksonville's 40, and as Milburn hurdled over 'him. it looked as if his right foot clipped Hollis' shoulder. Milburn tumbled to the ground and rolled over. The Jaguars thought he was down, but Milburn got up and sprinted all the way to the end zone. 
The officials ruled Milburn was rHwer down, and the 88-yard run stood, giving the Bears a 10-7 lead. 
"I tried to say sorhething to the offi­cial, but he ignored me," Hollis said. "I showed him my arms. l have the scratches and the dirt to prove [Milburn was down]." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

SPEND ALL THAT SUMMER CASH ALREADY?? South Dining Hall Food Market has employment opportunities. 
We offer competitive wages, pay increases for returning students, flexible schedules and work incen­tives. 
Stop by South Dining Hall or call 1­6147 for more information. 
WANTED 

After school child care needed. Man thru Fri, 3-5 pm, all or any days. Must be good with children. Car & references a must. Day -234-2211 (Angela) Eve.-271-8224 
NO profs seek mature, loving babysitter for great 15 month old girl. Flexible hrs, great pay. 234­2241,631-7762,631-7138. 
Part-time nanny needed for one-and-a-half year old boy, flexible hours, good pay, phone 631 5181 
TRUMPET, SAX, ELEC.GUITAR AND BASS PLAYERS FOR NO SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @ 1 HR/WK! SPRING TOUR AND MANY OTHER FUN EXPERI­ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573 
NO Prof seeks reliable baby sitter for his 2 and 4 year old children. Flexible Hours, call 282 2553 or 631 8015. 
Part-time position distributing advertising materials on campus.No selling involved.AII materials provid­ed free of charge.1-800-YOUR· JOB. www.acmnet.com/postering/your­job.htm 
Experienced babysitter w/ c~r need­ed. Various hours. 289-1529 
FOR RENT 
1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272­6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space av.ailable for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.Toll Road,Exit#107,1-800­418-9487. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY fine home within 10 miles of ND/SMC 219-291-7153 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR 
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
FLYNN ND/SMC B&B 
Private home,10 mins from cam­pus. 3 lovely rooms,one bath.Perfect for families or couples traveling together.Available foot­ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75­95/nt. Call Alice (219)282-2241. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS, NEAR CAM­PUS. 219-277-6832. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS, NEAR CAM­PUS. 219-277-6832. 
OFF CAMPUS RENTALS AVAILABLE FALL 1999 
Property 1 ....... .4-5 STUDENTS Property 2 ........ 6-8 STUDENTS (large common area) 
Clean,washers/dryers,appliances,s ecurity systems,plenty of parking, nice condition. Call Dave or Carolyn 291-2209 
FOR SALE 
'94 Geo Prizm 4dr 5spd stereo 60k mi clean sharp & faithful $7200 237-0608 
AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE CARDS $10-97 min. $20-198 min. Call 258-4805. 
1987 Saab 900 5 speed, 1 owner, Good Condition. $3000 OBO. Call 288-1380 in evenings. 
89 Ford Probe GL $3300 Steinway Piano $500 Yamaha Trombone $250 Guitar with Amp $150 Accordion $50 237-0695 

Stuffed Armchair. $15 Call 631-5435. 
TICKETS 

I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
NO Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
NO FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232·2378 PM 288-2726 
2 PURDUE GA'S 4 SALE. 908-537-4008. 
Needed: tix to Michigan State. Will trade tix or a room for one home game or pay cash. Call Tony at 4­1088. 
Needed: Two BC tickets.Willing to buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue or two Stanford tix. Call617-248-7046 2 PURDUE GA's 4 SALE 908-537-4008 
Need LSU tix 289-2918 
PERSONAL 
For your FREE W.W.J.D .• bracelet, call 631-6385. 
$6 HAI'RCUTS 
VITO'S BARBERSHOP Closed All Day Sun and Wed. Open Daily 8-4, Sat 8·3. 233-4767 
CLOSED LABOR DAY, 9/8 & 9/9. Will reopen on Thursday 9/10. 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre,Early bird savings until Oct. 31st.America's best prices and packages.Campus sales reps want­ed.Earn free trips+ cash. 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 
NO RIGHT TO LIFE 
1st GENERAL MEETING 
Tonight 9:30pm 
123 Nieuland Science Hall 
Come join the 2nd largest group on campus ... help the Irish Fight for Life! 
And now, here are Bill Hart's REAL football picks for last pullout: Notre Dame Ohio State Tennessee Arizona State 
And that's the sports and I am outta here... 
Well. ..maybe not... 
well the printer still won't work 

Mark, mark, mark.. sorry about last night 
didn't mean to :) 
well, actually, I did 

Hiltz and HAC, great girl time Friday night we simply must do it again some­time 
Betcher-up for another fun Thursday night? :) love, MAC 

Diane-maybe i should be the FTT major, with the drama my life is 
isn't it fun to be my roommate? 

especially when we talk about piles of chicken 
in the corner 

i can't wait to read prairie farmer 
Read this week's pullout for the best Irish Insight column of all time... ...and then some 
Bill and John Tesh ... ...perfect together 

Monday, September 7, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 11 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
McGwire and Sosa dry as Cards-Cubs series begins 
degree heat came streaming back to their seats as McGwire stepped up to lead off the inning. 
Tomko challenged him with a 93 mph fastball, and McGwire was right on it, maybe even too much. The ball barely went foul and wound up in the hands of Jay Davis, who was actually sit­ting in fair territory. 
"The ball hit down there, careened up here," Davis said. 
McGwire was called out on strikes to finish that at-bat, offering no complaint to plate umpire Mike Winters. 
In the eighth, McGwire hit a liner up the middle that nearly struck pitcher John Hudek in the head. Overshifted second base­man Bret Boone was right in position and threw out McGwire, sending a lot of fans to the exits with the Cardinals lead 3-2. 
Pirates 4, Cubs 3 

The Sammy Sosa update: 58 and holding. 
Sosa went homerless for the first time in four games, allow­ing Jason Kendall to stop the Chicago Cubs' six-game winning streak with a 1Oth-inning homer as the Pittsburgh Pirates rallied to win 4-3 Sunday. 
Sosa, who had homered in the first two games of the series, will take 58 homers into Monday's shootout in St. Louis with Mark McGwire after going 2-for-5 with two singles and two strike­outs. He had homered five times in the last six games -all of them Cubs' victories. 
Sosa struck out in the 1Oth ­his 144th strikeout of the season -to help Rich Loiselle (2-7) get out of a two-out, two-on jam that ended with pinch-hitter Brant Brown's strikeout. 
Sosa also struck out in the sec­ond, reached on an inlield error in the fourth and singled in the sixth and seventh. 
The Cubs wasted a 3-1 lead in a potentially costly defeat as Jose Guillen hit a tying two-run shot in the sixth off Hodney Myers. Kendall won it with his 12th homer, a one-out shot over the left-field wall off Dave Stevens (1-2), who has allowed 10 runs in his last 14 1-3 innings. 
The Pirates halted an eight­game losing streak -their longest in seven years -despite committing three errors. They had eight errors in the series ­six by their shortstops, induding three by rookie Abraham Nunez in one inning Saturday. 
The Cubs' Scott Servais, bat­ting .208 at the time, hit the first of his two doubles in as many innings in the l'ifth and scored on Lance Johnson's bloop dou­ble in front of left fielder Emil Brown. Brown eame in casually on the short lly, giving him no chance to make the catch. 
The Pirates scored in their half of the inning on Tony Womack's bases-loaded single, only to give the lead back with more of the ugly defense they played throughout the series. 
Lou Collier misplayed Gary Gaetti's two-out grounder in a two-run sixth -his second error of the game and the fifth by a Pirates shortstop in eight innings. Manny Alexander took advantage of the error to single in a run. and Servais' double scored a second unearned run ofT Chris Peters. 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Just missed. 
Mark McGwire lnl't history on hold Sunday, hitting a ball that hooknd foul just before it was about to become his record­tying 61 st home run. 
For a few tantalizing seconds, McGwire stood frozen at homo plato. watc~hing with tho rest of the 47,904 fans at Busch Stadium when he sent a low line drive scrnaming toward tho left­field stands in tlw sixth inning. 
But as tho ball approached the foul polo, it took a lnl't turn and wont widn by about 7 feet. The crowd's roar turnnd into a groan -it won't count as 60 l/2­and three pitches later McGwire struck out against Brett Tomko. 

While Cardinals fans wore dis­appointed McGwire remained one homo run behind Roger Maris' mark, his 0-for-3 with a walk afternoon in the St. Louis Cardinals' 5-2 win over Cincinnati only increased the fascination for what's on deck: Sammy Sosa. with his 58 home runs, and the Chicago Cubs come to town for a two-game series that starts Monday after­noon. 
With Maris' four sons and two daughters in the stands, the day was ripe for something special. Even Bruce Springsteen was on hand, having brought his 8­year-old son. Evan, out to the Midwest for the game. 

"It's an opportunity for him to enjoy a big moment is history," The Boss said. 
But, it was not to be. And a day after McGwire hit his 60th home run, the chase continued. 
Facing Tomko, who recently said he wouldn't mind too much giving up the milestone homer, McGwire lined out to shortstop Barry Larkin in the first inning. 
McGwire never had a chance to swing in the fourth, walking on four pitches. It was his 147th walk, 23 behind Babe Ruth's single-season record, and prompted a chorus of boos. 
Then came the sixth. Fans who had been hiding in the aisles to escape the 98­

Attention Saint Mary's Class of2002 ... 
Interested in planning the activities for your class? 
Freshman Class Elections Are Coming Soon. 
Mandatory Informational Meetings September 8th or September 9th In 304 Haggar 
Questions? Call Bridget x4377 
Share a "taste" of Irish hospitality with prospective students 
Wanted:  Enthusiastic, dedicated NO students who are interested in having lunch twice a month with prospective students.  
Purpose:  Many of our visitors spend only a short time on campus. We created this program to give high school juniors and seniors an opportunity to learn more about NO student life in a casual setting.  
Details:  The program runs Monday-Friday. Volunteers are needed at 11 :45am and 12:45pm. Discounted lunch passes will be sold to visiting students for $4.  

For more information or to volunteer for this program, e-mail Stacey at smith.330@ nd.edu. Please include your name, address, phone and graduation year along with your preferred day(s) and time. 
Thank you! 
Office of Undergraduate Admissions 




,,,,'":~,~''' G8~".'"' 
CHICAGO CUBS 80 62 .563 NY METS 79 63 .556 1 SAN FRANCISCO 76 66 .535 4 LOS ANGELES 72 70 .507 8 BOSTON 81 TORONTO 76 TEXAS 75 
GB 

59 .579 66 .535 6 66 .532 6 1/2 
~ 
-
,,. 

page 12 
M.Soccer 
continued from page 16 
co-captain Matt Johnson. "Andrew's a great player, and we'll miss him, but we have the players to ['ill in." 
The third goal came at the 84th minute of play as Wells scored on a Cox assist. Cox. who missed most of last season after ankle injuries, has returned to be an integral part of the Irish scoring line. 
"It was difficult coming back this year, but it's like riding a bicycle. The rest of the team's great play makes it real easy," pointed out Cox. In two games of play, the junior has netted a goal and 

assisted on three more. 

The team was again supported by a defense that allowed only seven Syracuse shots. In goal, Greg Velho got his hands on three saves. 
"Velho is playing excellently, but our defense hardly ever makes mistakes. If they do, they're there to cover each other," said Johnson. 
Despite the great play so far,' the Irish defense hopes to. improve on its game even fur­
ther. 

"The exciting thing so far," said co-captain Phil Murphy, "is tha:t we aren't playing as well as we should have. We would like to improve on maintaining the defensive shape for the whole game." 
The Irish will look to improve their overall record to 3-0 tomorrow night as they take on regional rival Northwestern at Alumni Field. 
The Observer/John Daily Forward Scott Wells has helped spark an agressive front line that has given the Irish wins in its first two games. 
Need Cash?? 
arn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 

Iii..'...-· .... ----------------------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
The Observer/John Daily Co-captain Phil Murphy leads a solid defense that has let up just two goals in two contests while sparking an offense that has netted nine. 

the 
Caribbean 

Hispanic Caribbean Study Program (Cuba, Dominican Republic, Puerto Rico) Spring 1999 Informational meeting with Dr. Thomas E. Bogenschild Director, International Study Program Tuesday, September 8, 1998 
4:45 -5:45pm 
213 DeBartolo 
Application Deadline: October 1 
Returning students will be on hand to answer questions. 

Monday, September 7, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
game two and won game thren Colorado is a very balanced and own with 16 kills and 30 total scored points a little easier than 15-h. experienced team." attack attempts. Notre Dame," said Colorado
Volleyball 
"We had a tough time scoring The Irish leaned heavily on "We played well against head coach Pi'i Aiu. "Both 
points." said Brown. "Point the play of Treadwell, Boylancontinued from page 16 
scoring comes in three ways -and sophomore Jo Jameyson. won in thrnn games, t.hn match blocking, snrving. and defense. All three were named to the All­lastnd nnarly two hours, mainly Our bloeking was pretty good, Tournament Team. hm:ausn both teams did an out­but our serving and defense Treadwell had 10 defensive standing job of siding out. could have been better. digs and hit .429. She also was Colorado )mat. Notrn Dame 15-(> "We weren't strong enough a strong leader on the court. in gamn orw, r.amn from bnhind with our outside hitters, but our Boylan had 48 set assists. to dd1~at tho Irish 15-l :1 in middln hitters did a great job. .Jameyson really came into her 
First Club Meeting 
Monday, September 7th 7:30pm Room 122 COBA 
•Travel 
to New York City and Chicago on Fall Break 

•Meet 
company representatives at Finance Career Night, September 17th 

•Career 
and internship opportunities 

•Organize 
the Finance Forum 

•High 
exposure to Wall Street Firms 

•Dine 
with Corporate Recruiters 


All classes are welcome to join! 
Just a reminder ... 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 
invites all majors and years to learn more about this incredibly dynamic organization. 
All Council Recruitment Meeting TONIGHT!! 7:30PM Jordan Auditorium, College of Business Administration 
The World is Waiting ... Get Involved. 
Colorado," said Boylan, "but our teams sided out extremely well. communication, intensity, I think they've got a really good defense and blocking weren't team, but they're a little young where we needed them to be." and young teams sometimes 
Key figures in the Buffaloes' have trouble scoring points. I victory were their hitting per­think Boylan's one of the best centage of .313 compared to the setters in the country." Irish at .242, and the fact that Colorado was the champion of they had 65 defensive digs ver­the invitational, also defeating sus Notre Dame's 44. Georgia on Saturday in three 
"I think our strength was we games. 
The Obse!Ver/Jett Hsu Sophomore Jo Jameyson and the Irish volleyball squad will hope to rebound this Friday when they travel to Wisconsin. 
MATUBA ~ Japanese Restaurant ~ 
Authentic. Healthy Delicious. The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din­ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrimp tam­para, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyaki chicken, sushi, sashimi and vegetarian sushi or man other traditional Ja anese dishes. 
I.J.rd1Special-$>.95 IXnrS!BD-$1<UE 
1 -Beef Negimaki 1 -Teriyaki Chicken 2 -Egg Rolls 1 -Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 -White Fish Sushi 4 pc-California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc -Cucumber Rolls 4 pc -California Rolls 1 -Mise Soup 8 pc-Tuna Rolls 1 -Salad 1 -Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 -Mise Soup Green Tea 1 -Salad May change weekly plus Japanese
Green Tea Lunch Dinner Sushi(13 pieces) $6.95 $8.95 Sushi (14 pro,s $7.95 $11.95 Sushi veg. combo (12 pc) · $6.95 $8.95 Sushinorawfish(13pc) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi(16pieces) $12.95 $12.95 Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces) $16.95 $16.95 Sushi&Sashimicombo $18.95 $18.95 plus Mise Soup Lunch: 11-2 Mon·Sat Dinner: 5-9 Mon-Thurs,S-10 Fri-Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beet-Chicken-Vegetable 2930 E. McKinle Ave. South Bend IN 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program at 

NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
Informational Meeting With Professor Greg Gundlach Fr. Hill Miscamble Professor Charles Kulpa 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 8, 1998 4:45PM 102 DEBARTOLO 
1999-00 APPLICATION DEADLINE DEC I 
.. _ 
------------------------------------------------------------..............................______________________ 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, September 7, 1998 
tournament. The Irish now also hold the another goal a minute and a half later. Notre Dame." record for the longest conference unbeat­Both teams were held scoreless for the Notre Dame poured it on in the second
W.Soccer 
en streak. next 30 minutes and the half ended with half scoring six more to close out the continued from page 16 The Irish followed up the victory on the Irish up 2-1. game with nine unanswered goals. Friday with a win over Pittsburgh on The Irish however looked like a eom­
Makinen had back-to-back goals at LaKeysia Beene and Elizabeth Wagner Sunday afternoon. The Irish got off to an pletely difl"erent team in the second half. 50:12 and 54:09 and Erickson also had a 
_.. 
combined for the shutout of the Mountaineers, as Notre Dame outshot West Virginia. 37-4. 
The win marked the 30th consecutive win against conference opponents in reg­ular season games or in the Big East 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Shorin-Ryu Karate-Students are instructed according to traditional Okinawan techniques. Semester long course that meets in Rockne 219 Tffh 6-7:30 p.m., staitill:g September 
10. There will be a demonstration on Tue$day•. Sept, 8 at 
6:30 p.m. The cost is $18 and you must register in advance at RecSports. For more info, call RecSpotts at 1-6100. 
Women's Safety and Self-Defense -This course exposes women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situations. Class meets for ten sessions on MIW 6:30 ­
7:45 p.m. beginning Sept. 7. There is a class fee of $12 which should be paid at the time of tegistration at RecSporU. ~ 
Modern Dance .. This class will be tailored. for &range of abillities. Semester long course that will meet Mffh 6il5· 7:30p.m. in Activity Room 2 at the RSRC. Youmust register in advance at RecSports. The cost is $35. 
Beginner Ballet -No experience necessary. Class meets Sundy 2:30 -4 p.m. and Tuesday 7:30 -8:45 p.m. in Act. Rm. 2 at the RSRC. Registration fee is $35 and signups are at RecSports. Class size is limited. Call RecSports for more info. ,_,.,. . J ,+_.,,,,.. ,.,..,,;....;
..,,.,.,,. ... 
Horseback Riding Lessons -The info. meeting for this,;/< course will be Wed.• Sept. 9 at 7 p.m~ ..in JJSRC Classroom~ The course is five lessons on Th from 5~6 p.m, Students will learn the English style an all levels are welcome. 
One Night Soccer Tournament-Thursday, Sept. 10, beginning 6 p.m. five on five plus goalie. Please register your team at the RecSports office ASAP -tournament is limited to the first 12 teams that sign up. Deadline for entry is Sept. 9. For more info., call RecSports. 'Mik'· 
RecSports Golf Championship -"-· Pl . 1~$ P'rt Si!;t)r: Sept. 19 at the ND Golf Course. This is ay your own ball tournament -tee times begin at 10 a.m. Register and pay $8 at the Golf Pro Shop. Deadline is Wednesday,. Sept. 16. Call RecSports for info. 
CbaUenge-U-Fitness -Hun Sept. 9. It is not too late to participate. Spaces are still available in niany fitness classes. Calll-6100 for more info. ? 
New Beginnings Class ,..... A low impact cliiss for individu­
als who are newto groJJP exercise or .are l:~'!itti,lllf.back'into fitness routine. Classes meet Tffh, 12:15 ~ 12;45, a'SRC. Sign up today. 
Student Trainers -Any freshman Notre Dame student interested in working with the student athletic trainer pro­gram can attend a meeting in the athletic training room located in the football stadium (Gate E) on Sept. 14 at 4 p.m. 
Women's Safety & Self-Defense 


The objective of this course is to expose women to basic self-defense techniques as used in real-life crisis situa­tions. 
Classes Begin Monday, September 7 10 Sessions on Mondays & Wednesdays 6:30-7:45 Rockne Memorial RM. 219 
Register in Advance at RecSports Registration Fee is $12.00 Call 631-6100 for more Info 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year. 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH _.. _••R ~  see the world. To discover how high a career in the Air Force can take  
-FalCE"'  you, call 1-800-423-USAF. or visit  
www.airforce.com  our website at www.airforce.com  

extremely slow start and found them­"I think we showed our pride in the pair of second-half goals with ones at 
selves trailing for the first time this sea­second half," said Lindsey. "We hate los­58:20 and 86:47. son, when Beene gave up a goal to Pitt's ing and we hate getting seored on. We Shannon Boxx, who had an assist in the Renee Spampirato at 12:22. The Irish want to show the crowd that we can play first half. added a goal at 56:11, while 
struck back at 16:53 when Heft scored off and that we were ready to play. We took freshamn Kelly Tulisiak scored the first a Makinen pass at 16:53 and netted it upon ourselves to show the pride of goal of her career at 83:18. 
InterAction Weeks 
September 6-19 
ATWO WEEK PERIOD TO IMPROVE GENDER RELATIONS. 
Co-ed groups of students can take advantage of great specials while earning the chance to win prizes ranging from gift certificates, to restaurants and stores, to a Play Station. 
To receive the special, show your student ID. To enter the drawing, submit your receipt or movie stub to the HPC office in LaFortune with your name, address, and phone number by September 22. 
The Specials 
Monday Fajita Dinner for 2 for $10 at Chili's Monday-Tbursday $5 All you can bowl 9-midnight includes shoe rental and soft drink Every Day Cinemark Movies 10 All Movies $3.7 5 
Garfield's 

20% off entire bill, one discount per ID 
Olive Garden 

Never Ending Pasta Bowl for $6.95 Friday Sept. 11 Free carnations at Titanic courtesy of SUB Sponsored by HPC 
Fall Break Seminars October 18-23, 1998 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns 
APPALACHIA SEMINAR -Service Learning at one of 15 seminars -One credit Theology -Information meeting: 
Tuesday, September. 8, 7:30-8:00 PM 
CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -Examine issues of diversity and related concerns -One-credit Theology or Sociology -Cosponsored with Multicultural Student Affairs -Information meeting: Tuesday, Sept. 8, 4: 15-4:45 PM 

WASHINGTON SEMINAR 
Violence and Nonviolence in American Life 
-Direct contact with political, agency, and 
Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities -One-credit Theology or Government -Information meeting: Tuesday, September 8, 7:00-7:30 PM 


CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR -New seminar examining key children's concerns -Focus on direct service and policy initiatives -Site: Boston or New York -Information meetin s: Se t. 2nd, 4:15PM & Se t. 8th, 6:30PM 
..
C IE N 1 [ R f 0 R
Applications Available Now at the CSC 
SOCIAL CONCERNS
Applications Due: Thurs., Sept. 10, 1998 
' 

Monday, September 7, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 15 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
And so Zuco headed 
down the greenback road, and soon found himself in the middle of thick and lush greenery. 
FOXTROT AH, LABoR DAY. Noll-liN& To Do BuT WATcH MOVIES fAH, LABoR DAY. NoTHIN& 
~ To Do BuT PLAY VIDEo GAME AmR VIDEo GAME. 
AT THE MALL. 
I 

DILBERT 
E 
0 
'! 

TI-H5 IS A
0
.. 
@I 

CON5ULTTNG 
,.. ~ 

CO~PANY. 
.. 

WE'LL PAY YOU
~ 
ll! 

$~00,000 PER 
E 
j 

YEAR TO WORK
0 
0 

FOR US.
-e 
~ 
i5 

records 27-Down 46 Yuppie's auto 



58 "Pal Joey" writer John 59 15th or so &o Poet Lazarus &1 Bay window 


Reporters,
&2 Alternatives to 
pastes &3 Socials 64 Jell-0 shapers &5 Angel's topper 


photogra.. 
DOWN 
1 Armed forces chow item 2 Popocatepetl 


phers and 
emission 3 Uppermost point 4 Papal throne site 


editors.
5 Surprise attack &A-frame 
supports 7 Priests' robes a Achievement 9 Polished 


Join The 
mosaic floor u 
I'M
= 
IN 

to gain . (Need advice? Call Eugenia at 900-484-7827. Your phone company will bill you $1.99 per minute.) © 1998 Universal Press Syndicate 
ClANKING. 
!ltG!O 
, 
J'OB 
~ 
c 

f MI>.R.KET.
::> 


Wanted: 

47 Rand McNally 52 "Comin' -~ book the rye" 53 Ice pellets 
48 Paddled 


Observer
54 Bright thought 49 Sharpen 
55 Archer William 50 Actor Cronyn 
56 Bygone gas 51 -~ Ia Douce brand 

staff.
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Birthday Baby: You are a faithful friend and lover. You have high hopes and strong beliefs. You stick to your word and are not afraid to stand up for your
IN'JESTf"\E.NT 
rights. A determined and willful individual, you hal'e plenty 10 offer and much youngst<'r> m your family 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Part­nerships will b~ plentiful. Try not to argue about trivial matters. You can avoid arguments if you stick to your work and refuse to get involved in gossip or idle chatter. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Watch your mouth or you may say some­thing that you'll Jive to rc•gret. Your mind will be on matters that deal with secret affairs. Be careful while in transport. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Your creative talent may well be recog­nized by others today. Don't be afraid to push your beliefs and attitudes. You will have the ability to capture the interest of others. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Surround \'Ourself with a state of calm. Someone around you is bounc­ing off the walls. You need time to reflect on the whole situation before you make any final decisions. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make your point heard if you aren't to sh1· to express your opinions in front of a group. You have good solutions for any problems that may exist around you. 0000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You are lucky today. Money that you don't have to work for should be available. You will get rewards for helping someone sort out his or her personal papers. 000 
PISCES (feb. 19-March 20): Romantic encounters will develop if rou get involved in humanitarian organizations. You will be able to make contributions to your chosen field.OOO 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address ______________________________________ City-------------State _____ Zip.__________ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Thick slice 5 To the rear, nautically 10 First of all 14 June honoree 15 Fracas 1& Taunt 17 Pennsylvania and Park, e.g.: Abbr. 18 Elephant of children's lit 19 Burden 20Ad puff 23 Not so much 24 One of Alcott's "Little Women" 25 "Jingle Bells" conveyance 2B0smose 30 Pie -~ mode 
33 Covering for a baby's bottom 34 Fire 35 Future blossom 3& Ad puff 40 Hawaiian garland 
41 -~-Chalmers (farm machinery name) 
42 "The jig-!" 43 Printers' 
measures 44 Baby-faced 45 Most skilled 47 Wall Street 
operator, for short 48 "This one's 
-~!" 
49Ad puff 57 Pitch 


The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Ecstasy's opposite 11 Game show 
answer signal 12 Adjoin 13lntertwine 21 Sister of 
24-Across 22 Eastern V.I.P. 25 No longer fresh 2& Burdened 27 Hip swiveler of 
fame 29Schmos 30 Mistreat 31 Dillies 32 Modify to fit 34 Skirt accessory 37 Mother-of-pearl 38 Site for a poker 

game 39-City (Denver's nickname) 45 Historical 
BILL AMEND 
IRoNIC. THAT FoR ll-IE ONE PERSoN IN llitS HOUSE WHo's ACTUALLY GoNE "THRoUGH 
lABoR.•. \ 

SCOTT ADAMS 
MORE INTERESTE.O 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Julie Kavner, Corbin Bernsen, Buddy Holly, Chrissie Hynde 
Happy Birthday: Don't be con­cerned with what everyone else is up to. Try to focus on your own ideas and promoting yourself. There are plenty of opportunities an>und you if you are willing to try some new things. Your practical nature may hold you back if you refuse to take a bit of a chance this year. Start believ­ing in your own abilities and you will see how far you can go. Your num­bers: 2, 7, 19, 27, 36, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You should plan to do things with your faithful pet or youngsters who have interesting hobbies. You will be in the mood to socialize or get involved in sports activities. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Ro­mantic opportunities will be plentiful if you get out in the crowd and min­gle a little. You will be extremely vir­ile, so take precautions or you'll be taking a risk. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You may be overreacting to personal prob­lems. Don't let an emotional upset interfere with your professional objec­tives. Someone you work with has a personal interest in you. 00 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Be cautious when you travel to foreign countries. You may find that all of your papers are not in order. You must be courteous if you wish to avoid major delays. 00000 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): You may want to get involved in a theater group. You can do well onstage or behind the scenes -the choice is yours. You should encourage the 

• In the first time 
• Mark McGwire and reigning NFL MVPs 
Sammy Sosa, homerless faced off, Brett Favre's 
yesterday, will meet face Packers defeated Barry 
to face in the race for




PORTS 
Sanders Lions. the record. 
p. 10 p. 11 
THE 
page 16 0 BSERVER Monday, September 7, 1998 

• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Irish start off conference season with two blowouts 
By BRIAN KESSLER squad that was much improved proved that we are at least Assistant Spans Edirot from a year ago. West Virginia as good a team as last year." was confident heading into the The Irish didn't get off a 
This weekend. the Notre Dame contest, but the Irish demon­shot until six minutes into women's soccer team continued strated why they are the second­the contest, but junior for­its winning ways by blowing out ranked team in the country. war:d Jenny Hel't finally put two Big East opponents on "I think we played really well Notre Dame on the board at Alumni Field by a combined on Friday," said sophomore 15:10 when she beat West score of 16-1. defender Kelly Lindsey. "We Virginia goalkeeper Stacey 
In the home opener on Friday, were coming oil' a rocky start at Adams to the ball and 
the Irish battled a West Virginia Michigan State, but I think we knocked home Mentis Erikson's pass for a 1-0 advantage. 
Heft was brilliant for the Irish in the first half. 
"The girl is just amazing," said Lindsey. "She played really well for us and stepped up her game when we need­edit." 
Less than five minutes after her goal, Heft crossed the ball to junior forward Jenny Streiffer, who headed it in for a 2-0 lead. 
I left struck again at 30:40 when she netted a goal that was assisted by Erickson and Anne Makinen. The Irish went up 4-0 on an own goal at 37:20. 
In the second half, Notre Dame picked up where they Anne Maniken dodges past a Pittsburgh defender in Notre Dame's second left off, scoring three more victory of the weekend. goals to finish off the 7-0 
field," said Lindsey. "She's one , Erikson, while her third was dri­shutout. 
of those players who every fol­ven past Adams.
Streill'er netted a pair of goals 
lows when she steps up her Ileft closed out her hat triek
at 51:32 and 64:13 to complete 
play." and the scoring for the Irish by
the hat trick. 

Her second goal of the evening knocking home a Makinen pass. 
"She's a real leader on the 
came on another header from 
see W.SOCCER I page 14 
• MEN's SoccER
• VoLLEYBALL 
Squad splits at Shamrock Invitational Irish Big East opener 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sporrs Writer 
squeezes Orangemen 
The national volleyball rank­By ANTHONY BIANCO ings proved accurate this week­Spans Writer end in the Shamrock 
Invitational. It was a different team, a different field and the first Big East 
This worked to the favor of match-up, but for the Irish, it was the same game Saturday the Fighting Irish on Friday, but when they defeated the Orangemen at Syracuse, 3-1. Notre kept them from victory yester­Dame, ranked sixth in the conference, improves to 2-0 on the day. season (1-0 in the Big East) while Syracuse, ranked seventh in 
On Friday, 16th-ranked Notre the Big East, drops to 0-2. Dame pulled out an exciting win The Irish have been focusing all season on winning games in five games over unranked with an aggressive forward line. That continued Saturday as 
Georgia. Yesterday, however, front men Scott Wells and Shane Walton, and midfielder the Irish were unable to over­Andrew Aris netted goals in the victory. Wells, Aris and Ryan come a more experienced foe in Cox also tallied assists in the game for the Irish. "It helps that 12th-ranked Colorado. we have five frontrunners in an attacking mentality," said Cox 
The match between Notre on the success of the offense. "We have the right people and Dame and Georgia was hard­chemistry to score the goals." fought. Georgia edged the Irish Syracuse got the ball rolling first, with a goal by senior mid­15-13 in the first game, but the fielder Anthony Iannone 19:05 into the match. Iannone was fed Irish came back to dominate by Neeraj Chopra and fired a shot from 30-yards out, catching game two, 15-6. Game three Irish goalie Greg Velho off-guard. The Orangemen would keep 
--~ 
went long, with the Bulldogs the 1-0 lead for 20 minutes before the Irish attack came alive. coming out an 18-16 winner. Walton, a freshman who amassed two goals and two assists Notre Dame then came back in his first game against Valparaiso, added another point in with a vengeance, crushing this contest. Walton's goal came with 7:40 left in the first half Georgia 15-3 in game four and on an Aris crossing pass that Walton smacked into the corner. winning game five 15-8. The second half was all Irish as the team added two more 
"Our blocking was very good," goals to take the lead. "We played a much better second half,"
led by the play of senior captain Georgia was led by the play of
said head coach Debbie Brown. said Aris. 
Lindsay Treadwell, who had no Kathy Vis, who had 24 kills and
"Because of that, we really "I think our superior fitness benefited us, as did a great front 
errors in the match; sophomore 50 total attempts.
forced their hitters into a lot of row of Walton, Cox and Wells." 
Christi Girton, who recorded 17 Colorado beat the Irish for the
errors. In games four and five, Aris lit up the scoreboard 19 minutes into the second off an 
kills; and sophomore setter
we played with a lot of confi­second straight year, relying on assist from Wells inside the box. Taking the lead brought little 
Denise Boylan, who had 40 their experience and the play of
dence and poise." celebration for the Irish as Aris was caught late on his shot by
assists. Shamrock Invitational MVP
Georgia had nearly as many a Syracuse defender. Aris suffered an injury to his leg, which 
Coming up big serving for
errors as it did kills, leading to Sarah Lodge. The match was team doctors from Syracuse initially diagnosed as a fractured 
Notre Dame were Treadwell much closer than the final score
a dismal hitting percentage of. fibula. Aris is expected to miss 6-8 weeks. and freshmen Kristy Kreher appears. Although the Buffaloes
044. The Irish. on the other "I don't think [Aris' injury] will slow our goal scoring," said 
and Marcie Bomhack. 
hand, hit .272. The Irish were see VOLLEYBALL/ page 13 see M.SOCCER I page 12 


at Michigan State 
Soccer

at Wisconsin 
September I 2, 7 p.m. 

!I @) S¢ 
vs Bethel College 

, 
September 11, 7 p.m. 'IJJ<, vs Duke September 8, 4 p.m. at Chapel Hill, N.C. 



SPORTS 
ATA 

\~ Cross Country 
Cross Country
September II, 5 p.m. 

vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler 
.,

.,.. ... at Aquinas College 
vs Northwestern September 12, II a.m. s,-.ct 
September II, 5 p.m. 
GLANCE 
%: :t~· September 8, 7:30 p.m. 





