

: I (/'
I , • 
Wednesday, Aprill, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No.)n THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Students, faculty honor India's independence 

By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
A new era in student govern­ment will begin tonight with the initiation of the new Student Senate term, one of several student union institu­tions being turned over to new hands this week. 
Twenty-six new representa­tives will join two returning members of the Senate, which will be led by student body vice-president Andrea Selak. Among these are 1 0 freshmen, 11 sophomores and three juniors. Four residence halls have not yet elected their sena­tors. 
The two returning senators are Matt Mamak from Keenan Hall, and Melissa Balchunas from Lyons Hall. Mamak was chair of the Senate's Oversight Committee last year, and worked extensively on improvements in the Student Union Constitution. Balchunas took over the Lyons seat in January and was unable to serve on any committees due to her short tenure on the Senate. 
Both Mamak and Balchunas hope to continue work on issues debated by the '97-'98 body. 
"I wanted to ensure that a lot of our projects were continued, and that we can move into new areas," said Mamak about run­ning for a second term. He highlighted laundry service in 
see SENATE I page 7 
Ignatieff analyzes effect of Holocaust 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 
Michael Ignatieff, noted historian and journalist, gave a series of lectures this week to mark the 50th anniversary of the ....--------, United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
In his talk entitled "Chapters lgnatieff In the History ofMorallmagination: the Universal Qe(;laration oi Human Rights,'' Ignatieff analyzed how European atti~ tudes concerning hu1llan1ty and human rights were dras~ tically altered by the 
Holocaust. and how those changes are evident in the 1948 Universal Declaration. 
He began by examining the pre-war attitudes towards civilization and· morality, and_ ..•. how it was thought that the two went hand~in-hand> '!t 
KEuropean civilizati<:lll. W!tl> .. thought to civilize instinct;,.. said .. lgnatieff. Followin the horrors ofth'e Ho though,''it b¢-cii1De 
.that aesthetic cultivation little effect on~ino:r 
1tion; .•.•.. ' 1"1" .·•.····•····.······ He then.went o pare the United Na <Tharter. drafted jriJ9 · the Universal Declaration, · 
and how the doc ····· reflect the historicali~o ..in whichthey were W'rt 
. ::·:·i.:,, ·-. 

By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY Assistant News Editor 
In an effort to expose the Notre Dame com­munity to the past, present and future of India, faculty and students gathered yesterday to honor the 50th anniversary of the nation's independence. 
Sponsors for the event included the South Asia Studies Group, the India Association of Notre Dame, the Office of the Provost and the Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies. 
"We wanted to increase awareness about the large country of India, a country that shares many goals and beliefs with the United States and to celebrate [India's) independence," said Arvind Varma, a professor of Chemical Engineering who helped to coordinate the event. 
"We wanted to emphasize political and eco­nomic aspects, as well as religion and art," said Varma. To achieve this goal, the members of the Fiftieth Anniversary Program Committee selected three speakers, each of ;yhom focused on a different aspects of Indian life and culture. 
Susanne Randolph, professor of"political sci­ence at the University of Chicago, addressed the development of the political and economic sys-terns of India that has taken place throughout the last half-century. She emphasized the plu­ralist nature of India, commenting that the country is a "multinational state" that has learned many ways to approach its diversity. 
"The nation has changed from a system of · state centralization, a government running as a unitary federalism. Now it runs by a method of de-centralized federalism," explained Randolph. 
Randolph attributed the distribution of national power to local centers of authority to the federal government's relinquishing some of its control over the economy, as well as to changes in the party structure. 
"[India] changed because its central com­mand economy has given way to economic reforms and liberalization, and because its one­party system gave way to a multi-party system strongly influenced by regional parties," Randolph said. 
The symposium's second speaker, University of Florida professor of religion Vasudha Narayanan, discussed Hinduism in the United States and India by describing Hindu temples, while showing corresponding slides. 
"Traditional architecture is a source of power," Narayanan stated. "The size of deity is 
see INDIA I page 7 
Studying the Great Irish Rebellion ... 
The Observer/Liz Lang 
The Great Irish Rebellion Convention continued yesterday with three sessions of two addresses each. Daniel Gahan of the University of Evansville began today's proceedings with a lec­ture on the impact of the revolution in county Wexford. He was followed by Notre Dame's Kevin Whelan, who compared the Irish revolution of 1798 to the American and French revolutions. David Miller of Carnegie Mellon and Michael Durey of Murdoch University spoke at the second session of the day, while Thomas Bartlett of University College, Dublin, and Jim Smyth spoke at the final session. Pictured above are Smyth and mod­erator Daire Keogh of St. Patrick's College, Drumcondra. 
Today's session begins at 10:45 a.m. in the Center for Continuing Education. Seamus Deane will deliver the plenary . address at 8 p.m. 
Students prepare for Holy Year 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
During each Holy Year of the Catholic Church, thousands of people journey to Home to pass through the Holy Year doors in each of the city's four majestic basilicas. 
Despite the fact that many cannot make this pilgrimage, it will still be possible to experi­ence and undertake a deeper understanding of this event. 
In participating and experi­encing the doors throughout the semesters in LeMans Hall, one can prepare for the Great Jubilee of 2000. 
"This spring, the theme to the Jubilee is 'The Door of Our Lives,"' Sr. Betty Smoyer, SND deNamur of campus ministry stated. "Through themes such as this, we as citizens are going to be able to reflect and think back upon our lives and how they are influenced by the Catholic Church," she added. 

This spring, the doors located near the courtyard of LeMans Hall will be decorated. The dec­orations on the building's main doors will remain until the beginning of the next theme in the fall. 
The Holy Years have roots dating back to the 1300s, and have been commemorated every 25 years. The start of the millennium in the year 2000 will mark the change of life as we celebrate 2000 years of Christ's presence and relation with human kind. 
The Great Jubilee marks a 500 year period based on the Hebrew understanding of the Jubilee found in Leviticus 
20:25. 
Other themes that follow this spring will be 'The Door to Our Hearts', 'The Door to our Homes', and will conclude with 'The Door to the Church,' in the fall of 1999. 
One of the main goals of the jubilee for the 21st century will consist of conveying feelings of hospitality, openness, friendli­
see HOLY YEAR I page 7 

page 2 Wednesday, April 1, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 
Students: Indictment will not blemish school's reputation 

Spring began yester­day. 
Tim Logan 
It didn't begin on News Copy Editor 
March 21, with the 
coming of the vernal equinox. It didn't begin 
with this unusual stretch of sun and warmth 
we've been having lately. It began yesterday 
at about I:30 p.m. when Bobby Jones of the 
New York Mets wound up and hurled a ball 
towards the plate. 
That's right, it's baseball season once again. That annual rite of passage is upon us, and we're moving from winter into a better time of year. A time when we can sit beneath the stars and the big lights on a warm night and enjoy a nice, relaxing game of baseball. 
Baseball season is a time of hope and enthusiasm. when we are able to get outside and enjoy a sport in the open air after months of trudging around bundled in coats and sweaters. Don't sit at home and watch the game on TV. For a little more than the cost of a movie ticket, you can sit in the bleaehers and even get a tan while you absorb the game's beauty. 
What's more, in doing this you will share in an experience as eommon as peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and the senior prom. You will experience baseball the way it's meant to be experienced-at the ballpark, where the memories of the past and the action of the present come together. 
These ballparks and their inhabitants have provided us with years of enjoyment and countless memories. From the days of Babe Huth and Cy Young up to the present, build­ings like Fenway Park. Wrigley Field and Yankee Stadium have accumulated as much history as any in the sporting world. 
If you've ever watched a game in one of these monuments, you probably understand the atmosphere they possess. If you haven't, I recommend you make the trip, soon. 
Baseball is our national pastime, an inte­gral part of American culture in a way bas­ketball. football and hockey could never be. That may be because, like spring, baseball is all about possibility. 
You don't have to be 6'6 or 280 pounds to play baseball. Anyone can and almost every­one has. This is true even in the pros, where Craig Counsell, the pint-sized hero of the '97 World Series, can be just as important as Handy Johnson, the towering hurler who has terrorized American League hitters with his blistering fastball for years. 
What's more, anyone can win at baseball. Sure, everyone thinks Atlanta, Seattle and the Yankees are the teams to beat this year, but for now we can believe that it will be the Cubs and the Hed Sox doing battle in October. Who knows, maybe one of those perennial disappointments will be this year's version of the 1969 Miracle Mets. 
Anything can happen in baseball, and over time, everything has. 
I think James Earl Jones put it best in the immortal baseball movie "Field of Dreams" when he said. "The one constant through all the years has been baseball ... Baseball has marked the time. This field, this game is a part of our past. It reminds us of all that was onee good, and that could be again." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
•  TODAV's STAFF  
News  
Sean Smith  Scene  
Christine Kraly  Michelle Barton  
Erica Thesing  Sarah Dylag  
Sports  Graphics  
Anthony Bianco  Jon King  
Viewpoint  Production  
Tara Churik  Dan Cichalski  
Lab Tech  
Meg Kraner  
Wednesda~, 47 45 Thursday ~ 53 35 Friday ~ 54 44 Saturday ~(,,55 44 


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000} is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
said Brown has a compulsive foot fetish, Baker said. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWcather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
·._ /_..:.________ r---------H L 
1 
i 
i 
~)<63 35
Sun~ay 
A. 
,;~./""'-""'.J '"-v / ,.._; 
q_Q,~q~Q {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Assoctated Press GraphJCsNet 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
ed last week, it was almost like 
The indictment of two former Northwestern was the fifth team in the Northwestern basketball players on Final Four," said freshman John Mone. charges of point shaving during the Like many other students. Mone 1994-95 season will not affect NU's learned of the indictments while watch­prestigious reputation, students said ing the NCAA Tournament. Monday. "I saw [athletic director] Hick Taylor 
NU students expressed mixed emo­addressing the media in a nationally tions about the scandal, from apathy to televised press conference," said Ben shoek and disbelief. Most students dis­Pabst, a freshman. "We're not a high­missed the controversy as a series of profile sports program yet. so you don't isolated events. normally expect to see our school as 
Because the alleged point shaving the lead story on 'SportsCenter. "' 
was committed by student-athletes who since graduated from the school," said Other students read about the scan­have graduated from or left NU, stu­freshman Will Heichel. dal in national newspapers such as USA dents said, the controversy does not Thursday, prosecutors charged Lee Today, the Chicago Tribune and the reflect on the university today. Students and Williams with point shaving, in the Boston Globe. said the public should not hold NU midst of the NCAA basketball tourna­Because NU's basketball team has 
accountable for the actions of former ment. Because the scandal was been known as the longtime doormat of players Kenneth Dion Lee and Dewey exposed during the height of the college the Big Ten, students said they were Williams. basketball season, NU received more not very concerned about the team. 
"Northwestern's athletes and stu­news coverage than usual, students "Who really cares about NU basket­dents should not be held responsible for said. ball anyway?" said freshman Alyssa the isolated actions of those who have "For the amount of publicity generat-Brightman. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY • UNION COLLEGE 
Professor researches advantages of LSD Man accused of rape will stand trial 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. LINCOLN, Neb. 
First brought to the United States in 1949 by German The comedian accused of raping a Union College chemist Max Wrinkle, the psychedelic drug LSD was ini­woman last year has been scheduled to stand trial in tially used and studied by researchers at the Harvard med­Lincoln som~time !n the next year. At a preliminary ical school. While immediately banned by the U.S. govern­hearing in Lancaster County Court March 19, Vinson ment, Harvard researchers initiated the idea of using psy­Champ's case was bound over to district court on the chedelies as an aid to psychotherapy. In his re-released charge of first-degree sexual assault. Champ, who is study "Psychedelic Drugs Heconsidered," Harvard psychia­being held in Lincoln/Lancaster County Jail in lieu of try professor Lester Grinspoon delves into the heart of the $500,000 bond will be in court again at 1 :30 p.m. next LSD culture and examines the initial Harvard studies on Wednesday. Champ also has been connected to sexual the medical uses of the drug. "The government has such assaults at Carthage College in Kenosha, Wis., St. dire views of psyehedelics," Grinspoon said. "They only see Ambrose College in Davenport, Iowa, and in l'asadnna. that these drugs are bad and they don't have a lot of sense Calif., where he was arrested. Physieal evidenee includ­that there may be something useful to these drugs." As one ing semen samples and the attacker's methods link all of the leading authorities on drug use today, Grinspoon the crimes, which occurred during February 1997, began exposing the true effects and nature of illegal drug according to the arrest warrant. Neither the county use during the 1970's while searching for medical evidence attorney nor the public defender in the ease would com­of the negative effects of these drugs. ment. 
• RUTGERS UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY Of CAliFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Former student sentenced to probation Admissions results may be inaccurate 
NEW BHUNSWICK, N.J. BEHKELEY, Calif. 
Former Hutgers University student and basketball player UC-Berkeley students and faculty members held a press Maurice Brown was sentenced yesterday to three years of conference yesterday to announce what they said are the probation on two counts of burglary and one count of sexu­admissions numbers for UC Berkeley's first entering dass al misconduct, authorities said. Although there originally without affirmative action, even though university officials were eight charges of burglary and several charges of denied the legitimacy of the ligures. The students announced lewdness, Brown agreed to plea guilty on Feb. 5 in that without affirmative action, the number of underrepre­exchange for lessened charges and $4,000 in fines, sented minorities has dropped from 18 percent to seven pnr­Middlesex County Assistant Prosecutor Wade Baker said. cent. They did not announce, however, how they got the lig­Brown had no previous criminal record. Brown was repre­ures. University officials, who are set to officially announce sented by Peter Hendrix, a private attorney, who was today the admissions results for this fall's entering class, unavailable for comment last night. Baker said statements were quick to point out that the ligures are wrong. "[The lig­from his victims who lived with Brown in Stonier Hesidence ures] are not ace urate," said university spokesperson .Jesus Hall on the College Avenue campus helped to keep Brown Mena. "I don't know where these numbers came from. I from reeeiving jail time. "All the girls wanted him not to go don't have any comment about where they came from." to jail, but to get help," Baker said. Brown will not serve According to numbers released in yesterday's press confer­jail time as long as he continues to see a psychologist, who ence, two percent of students admitted to this fall's fresh­
man class are black and live percent are Latino. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, April 1. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C> 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIS Associatfld Pl'fiSS 
Atlanta 74 53 Detroit 59 38 New York 67 48 Baltimore 72 46 Houston 75 56 Orlando 87 61 Chicago 55 38 Kennebunk 52 42 Phoenix 75 Cleveland 56 39 Madison 54 35 San Diegoy-/ Dallas 63 37 Miami 86 



a e 3 
' 
omens 
ews 
Wednesday, April 1, 1998 
Gender psychology still debated 
. 
ii~~~~~~~llll~~~~~~~~~~~~
f'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''' !·i't, 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor· 
Coed schools shortchange girls, the American Association of University
I' Women said in 1992. Now, six
years after this statement, the group that represents 16,000 college graduates reported in mid-March that single-sex education does not serve as the educational refund for girls in grades K-12. 
"What the research shows is that separating by sex is not the solution to gender inequity in education," Janice Weinman, executive director of the AAUW, told The New York Times. "What this report says is that single-sex educa­tion is not the silver bullet." 
The  contradictory reports,  
"How  Schools  Shortchange  
Girls"  in  1992  and  

"Separated by Sex: A Critical Look at Single-Sex Education for Girls," have left opponents and proponents of single-gender schools wondering 
'I 
THINK THAT SELF-FSTEEM MAY BE ONE OF what in fact does 
THE MOST IMPORTANT THINGS [THE AAUW
hold the smoking gun for the equal REPORT] MIGHT BE MISSING' 
education of females. 
However, the most recent infor­mation is not nearly as contro­versial or condemning as the media has portrayed it. 
The AAUW does not 
By ALEX ORR 
News Writer 
The psychological differences between tpe male and female may seem so blatant as to avoid the scrutiny of the casual observer. 
However, the whys of behavioral dis­crepancies have become a hotly debated topic in the last 20 years. 
The crux of the argument basically stems from whether stereotypically mas­culine and feminine behavior should be attributed to inborn qualities or to learned behavior. 
Since the 197 4 book, "The Psychology of Sex Difference," there has been a tenden­cy among psychologists to view gender dif­ferences as merely insignificant in the per­formance of cognitive tasks. 
The research within the book coincided with a period of societal changes and movement. Older ideas of gender roles based more or less on tradition were declared unfounded on any innate princi­ple. 
This view was heralded by feminists for its utility in championing equal rights. Women were not necessarily more nurtur­ing and helpful and men were not aggres­sive and assertive by nature, the argument went, but were so because of years of soci­etal influence. 
In "Sex and Gender," it is stated that, "Even in cases where the level of a partic­ular ability is partially determined by physiological factors, the ability is usually susceptible to training." 
•Areas such as mathematics and mental spatial positioning, traditionally thought of 
FEMALE EDUCATION 
MUW report questions single-sex education 

KRT Photo 
Although the AAUW's 1992 report prompted an increase in single-sex education, their latest report 
ponders these schools' academic merits. 
renounce these institutions The Wall Street Journal but questions their educa­lambasted the press for the tional merits. Although not misrepresentation of infor­emphasized in the media, the mation, editorializing, "[The AAUW did not base their find-report] is at worst uncertain 
PATRICK WHITE DIRECTOR OF ACADEMIC INNOVATION 
ings on new research and gle-sex 
relied solely on a review of classrooms where the num­previous studies. ber of students has increased 
as a male strength, could thus be devel­oped in women. According to research, men could also better master verbal skills, long thought of as a female forte. 
In addition, some theories suggested that children, largely segregated by sex during their formative years, form their 

own male and female cultures with differ­ent rules that persisted beyond youth. Therefore, it could be easier explained that this culture resulted in stereotypical male aggression and female passivity. 
But what had become virtual psycholog­ical dogma during the 1970s and 1980s has come under increasing fire in recent years. 
Modern essays and articles have pur­ported bases for variation in interests and strengths between the sexes. 
In 1995's "The Science and Politics of Comparing Women and Men," Alice Eagly determined that the "analysis of demon­strated sex differences in social behavior about [single-sex school's] benefits, and in many places says all sorts of positive things about them." 
But Weinman has also opened the doors to criti­
cism in her response to the popularity of sin­high schools and 
suggest that [both sexes] conform to stereotypic expectations." 
New tests provide central tendencies representing varying degrees of differ­ences to the sexes. Rather than simply falling into rankings of "same" or "differ­ent," the tests allow for a range in one's traits. 
Thus, there has been a reevaluation of what has been considered "insignificantly small" differences. The ability to mentally rotate three dimensional objects, facial expressions, proclivities toward casual sex, nurturing tendencies, and throwing ability have been found more significant under new analysis. More importantly, a number of studies revealed discrepancies between the sexes in regards to social interaction and personality. 
Recent scientific tests on the human brain has also increased the complexity of the matter. Yale neurologist Bennett Shaywitz reported in 1995 that his data "provides evidence for sex difference in the functional organization of the brain for a specific component oflanguage." 
His tests, measuring blood flow to vari­ous brain lobes during a rhyming exercise, revealed a dissimilar pattern of surges in women and men. Women tend to draw from their emotional-right lobes in addi­tion to their left lobes during verbal exer­cise, the study showed. However, men tended to limit themselves to the reason­ing right side of the brain. 
Tests from Canada's McMaster University have also reported that women have 11 percent more brain cells than men. 
by around 9,000. 
"A lot of things pushed peo­ple toward single-sex alter­natives," she said. "Some people were looking for easy solutions, for ways to address the issues we raised in the 1992 report." 
But advocates of single-sex education are opposed to the idea that one-gender schools are used as quick fixes to educational inequity. 
"I totally disagree," Eldred stated. "This is a very simplis­tic explanation. There are more substantive issues related to women. Workplace issues and positions of 
see AAUWI page 4 
see PSYCH/ page 4 
page 4 The Observer· WOMEN'S NEWS Wednesday, April 1, 1998 
peers. lie recalled his first two Studies like Cornelius Riordan's upon most was self-esteem. 
Coed AAUW
years at Notre Dame, when a "The Value of Attending a "A lot of coed environments say 
great number of men wore 
continued from page 3 
beards and long hair, and how 
ters," he stated. "I said 'You keep referring to this as a mar­riage, but when it gets to the nitty gritty, you don't want to take our names and you don't want to live with us.' They said 'That's exactly right'," llesburgh recalled. "So we decided amicably not to do that." 
Notre Dame then approached Saint Mary's with a proposal for coeducation on its own without a merger. llesburgh noted that because of the unique relationship between the two schools, it was impor­tant to have Saint Mary's bless­ing for such a plan. 
"We'd been together cheek and jowl for 125 years and we didn't want to hurt them in any way. And I don't think we have," Hesburgh said. "(Saint Mary's residents] wanted Saint Mary's to go on as Saint Mary's and they didn't particularly like the idea of having their campus invaded with men. That may sound Victorian, but I think that was an honest statement on their parts." 
Notre Dame then began preparations for the women's arrival. Among the physical changes, Badin and Walsh Halls were converted into women's dorms for the coed class of incoming freshmen. 
Many people feel that the transition went smoothly, part­ly due to the years of co­exchange. 
"We'd had co-exchange classes with Saint Mary's and a lot of co-exchange in the dining hall. It wasn't like there were Martians landing," said Father Bill Seetch, who was a junior at Notre Dame when the female undergraduates first arrived. 
Seetch, who is now rector of Morrisey Manor, did notice some changes in his male 
Psych 
continued from page 3 
It has also benn assertnd that women's larger anterior com­misurn, allows f(Jr bcttnr eommu­nieation between the brain's left and right hemisphere. Consnquently, this also interferes quickly that changed once the women arrived. 
"The first thing I noticed was that people cleaned up. It was like all of a sudden your sisters and girlfriends were around. It wasn't a marine corps bar­racks anymore," he said. 
Hesburgh agreed, saying, "It's a more civilized place now. Women play a role that has a civilizing effect on men." 
As for the women, their memories of the transition dif­fer dramatically from one another. Some, like Margueritte Andresen, who graduated in 1973 after trans­ferring from Saint Mary's, recall a fairly easy transition. 
"Once we were in the class­room, I felt we were fairly well­accepted," Andresen said. "The guys had to prove themselves as equally as we did. My recol­lection was that the faculty was very interested in our learning and success. I felt very wel­come there." 
Others, such as Laura Bayer, who also graduated from Notre Dame in 1973, recall the first years as challenging. 
"Many of the faculty had never taught women and many of the guys had never been in class with women. They didn't know how to treat us in an aca­demic environment," Bayer said. "I got awfully tired of being asked to give the woman's point of view in every class." 
Hesburgh acknowledged that the process was not flawless and that the University contin­ues to work on gender issues. "We immediately began to try to get more women in the administration and on the fac­ulty, and that's still a bit of an uphill battle. We still have a long way to go. You never sat­isfy everyone completely," he said. 
on a hemisphere's total concen­tration upon a task at hand.The University of Pennsylvania study found that the male brain seems to default to the temporal-limbic system, an evolutionary primeval portion of the brain where thoughts of sex and violence dwell. Women, they found, seem to idle in a relatively new addi­tion to the human cerebrum. 

The Irish Connection 
N~~'-.Hott.t4tN~ 
Proudly 
Presents 
Wednesday, April I 
2nd annual 
Rmp loulllje luchre Journe~ 
$2 YOU CALL IT HIGHT CASH PRIZES 
Thursday, March 26 
The music you love to hear 
Gravity Hill 
525 N. Hill St. South Bend 233-8505 
continued from page 3 
authority are much larger sub­jects than female schools." 
Many of the these discrimina­tion factors were outlined in the "Shortchanging Girls" report. It argued that American girls on average receive an inferior edu­cation to boys and are routinely exposed to sexism in coedu­cational environments. 
The increase in secondary single-sex education is often attributed to the AAUW's findings that "girls receive less attention in the class­room than boys; girls are not pursing math-related careers, ... the gender gap in science is increasing; curricula ignore or stereotype women; reports of sexual harassment are increasing; and many stan­dardized tests contain ele­ments of gender bias." 
The AAUW concluded that "when elements of a good education are present, girls and boys succeed," and now are backing implementing all­female school's characteris­tics into a coeducational set­
ting. 
But this may not be feasible when the unique environ­Women's College" reflect that in the coed atmosphere, "women continue to follow a traditional sex role pattern where attractive­ness and non-assertiveness are rewarded and academic success is discouraged, ... [but] females attending single-sex schools hold more egalitarian attitudes toward the role of women in society than do their counterparts." 
ment of all-female schools is '---------------~___.] 



classes, equitable teaching practices, and focused academic curriculum girls and boys succeed. ' 
·kinds of single-sex programs produce positive results for some students including a preference for math and science among girls. studies involving 
ic girls' schools, there was no 
apparent explanation for why 
students performed better. 
considered. 
Megan Stanley, currently a Saint Mary's sophomore who has experienced six years of all­female schooling, does not think she could have received the same education in a coed setting. 
"The all-female atmosphere is so different," Stanley said. ''I've been in classes with guys a few times, and the class totally changes. Girls seem to get quiet and sit in the back while the guys dominate the conversation. At a women's sc.hool, everything is geared toward teaching women and women's understanding." 
Patrick White, Director for Academic Innovation at Saint Mary's, believes that the MUW overlooks an important link between the self-confidence and success that all-female institu­tions tend to promote. 
"I think that self-esteem may be one of the most important things they might be missing," White stated. 
Recalling the past summer when he worked with 43 high school girls as part of the Leaders of a New Indiana program, White was surprised to discover the aspect they wanted to improve to these girls, 'You're not right somehow. You're not right in the body, mind, heart, and spirit,'" he said. "They are models of excel­lence, but people do not always pay attention to what women have to oiler." 
Linda Timm, Saint Mary's Vice President for Student Affairs, abo suggested that there may be an element to all-female educational 
settings that coed institutions cannot provide. 
"Research has shown that as far as women's colleges are concerned graduates overrepresent themselves in degree satisfaction, satisfac­tion with their overall college experience and occupational achievement," she said. "(At an all-female school]. women are leaders and role model<; to other women. They show that there are unlimited pos­sibilities." 
The report is expected to have little or no effect on the higher education of females but another MUW release ~ expected in May which will focus on women's colleges and universities. 
One of the key findings of "Separated by Sex" claims, "Whereas girls perceive the classrooms ... to be superior 
and may register gains in 
confidence, these benefits have 
not translated into measured 
improvements in ... math and 
science." However, White noted 
that the difference between many 
coeducational and single-sex 
schools may not be so much 
quantitative, but qualitative. 
"There are models of pride and ambition and confidence [in sin­gle-sex settings]," he said. 'These may be hard to measure but the effects can be seen. [All-female . schools! not only help students with the ability to take great 
leaps, but inspires all students to · 
go ahead and take those leaps." 



• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Train derails, catches fire 
LYNCHBURG, Va. 
At least seven railroad cars and two loco­motives derailed and caught fire today, pro­ducing toxic smoke that forced authorities to evacuate five blocks and an elementary school. One of the cars contained thousands of gallons of acetone. a flammable solvent that produces poisonous fumes when burned. The fire also spread to a storage building near the tracks where unidentified snow-removal chemicals are stored, said police spokeswoman JoAnn Martin. The ace­tone and the locomotives' diesel fuel contin­ued burning more than 2 1/2 hours after the accident. producing a column of black smoke visible for miles. No injuries were reported. The derailment occurred at 9:37 a.m. as rail­road workers were uncoupling several cars on a track about 1 1/2 miles from downtown, Ms. Martin said. The cars rolled down the track and hit other rail cars. 
Jury finds Freemen guilty 
BILLINGS, Mont. 
A federal jury on Tuesday found five 
Montana Freemen guilty of criminal charges 
in the first trial resulting from the 81-day 
standoff between the anti-government mili­
tants and the FBI in 1996. However, the jury 
acquitted Edwin F. Clark, 47, one-time 
owner of the foreclosed farm that formed 
most of the Freemen stronghold in rural 
eastern Montana. Clark's lawyer had argued 
he was desperate to save the farm and was 
swept up in events. Four of the Freemen 
were convicted of being accessories after the 
fact to the armed holdup of an ABC television 
news crew attempting to film a story on the 
Freemen. 
Nine-year-old disproves touch therapy 
CHICAGO 
A study conducted by a nine-year-old girl for a science project and published in a dis­tinguished medical journal concludes that "therapeutic touch," in which a healer sup­posedly manipulates a patient's energy field, is bunk. Emily Rosa, the daughter of a regis­tered nurse and an inventor, found that 21 experienced practitioners were unable to detect the field they supposedly manipulate to heal. Her study was published in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Association and immediately drew fire from supporters of the practice, who say it is respected worldwide. Therapeutic touch has been used to treat problems ranging from burns to cancer. The technique is prac­ticed in at least 80 North American hospitals and taught in more than 100 colleges and universities in 7 5 countries, said the study, written by the Loveland, Colo., student. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1835.68
8799.81 
+16.98 

NYSE: 
572~78 
+3.89 
S&P 500: 1101.75 
+8.20
+17.69 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
CDMI!4ti~ IICKJ;B !litCtiAIS!.:if 1 s:~aus I!BIC~ 
5UPERCOND TECH 5CON 53.64% 1.84 5.281 ODETIC5 INC ODE+B 49.07% 3.31 10.062 THERMO VOLTEK TVL 45.461Ml 2.81 7.000 GREENMAN TECH GMTID 44.781.H'J 0.93 3.031 BONSOEL INTL • WT BN5WP 38.99% 0.72 2.563 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
GLOBAL VILLAGE GVIL -43.58% ·1.062 1.375 NEOPHAI\.\1 INC· WT5 NPRMW -33.331-+il -1.000 2.000 EDUCATIONAL IN51 EDIN -23.80% ·0.625 . 2.000 MED RESOURCES MRII -21.76% ·1.468 5.281 RDI5Y CORP R5Y5 -20.55% ·6.500 25.125 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
Israel offers to discuss West Bank 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
An unexpected gesture by Israel ­an offer to discuss with the Palestinians a third pullback on the contested West Bank -gave a slight boost Tuesday to the Clinton adminis­tration in its laboring drive to reopen negotiations between the two sides. 
The offer by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to American mediator Dennis B. Ross near the end of Ross' fourth day of shuttle diploma­cy in the area, prompted Secretary of State Madeleine Albright to report "some progress." 
"In some substantive form we're perhaps a little closer" to reopening negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority after a yearlong impasse, State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said. 
But Albright also said the progress was not "nearly enough" to end the deadlock, while Rubin said "the peace process is not on track, and the gaps have not been bridged." 
Having received Ross' report, Albright will consult with President Clinton, and decide what to do next in what is a frustrating and disappoint­ing foreign policy venture for the administration. 
Netanyahu's gesture could provide a useful opening. Willing to turn over another 10 percent of the West Bank to add to the 27 percent Yasser Arafat already controls,the prime minister had insisted it would pose an unac­ceptable risk to Israel to give up the 12 percent to 15 percent the adminis­tration has been urging. 
He has not budged from that posi­tion. And yet Netanyahu told Ross, according to diplomatic sources, Israel was willing to put a third pull­back on the agenda for the so-called final-status talks Israel is supposed to have with the Palestinians to wind up the negotiationS. 
Those talks were already designed 
• 
to include the most difficult of issues, including the future of Jerusalem -­which Israel has reunited and where Arafat hopes to establish a Palestinian 
' 
capital --and borders between Israel and any Palestinian state or entity. 
Still, the sources, declining to be identified, said Netanyahu had not agreed to a third pullback, but only to discuss one. 
And, in the meantime, the extent of a second pullback is hotly contested. 
"It is important that there has been some movement, but we also have to make very clear that there is a level of frustrat~on both here and in the Middle East because the stalemate has gone on," Albright said. 
She also stressed there had been no breakthrough as the result of Ross' talks with Netanyahu and Arafat. 
"Obviously, we are concerned about the fact that for a year now there has been a stalemate," she said. "We want to keep making sure that the process moves forward." 

---~--­
----~-------------~ -­

TICKET INFORMATION 
ALL-WEEKEND PASSES 
Students, Faculty & Seniors: $6 General Public: $15 
FRIDAY EVENING 7:30pm 
Students, Faculty & Seniors: $5 General Public: $10 
SATURDAY AFTERNOON 1:30 pm 
Students, Faculty & Seniors: General Public: $2  Free  
SATURDAY EVENING 7:30pm Students, Faculty & Seniors: General Public: $8  $3  
Children under 12 admitted free to all events.  

Tickets available at the door or at 


the LaFortune information desk: 631-8128. 
For more information call the Student Union Board: 631-7757. 
................. ~-·-·-----···-··-·--····· ~~~ 
40th Annual 
Colle~ate 
Jazz Festival 
(; .J F P H E V I E \V T 0 N I (; II T! \\\\\ Wt•(hH'sday~ Ap1·ill af 8fHII 11111:/ in fht• taFm·hme 1Jall1·oom 
1\i<·k ol'l' llw 1'1•slimlln lisl1•nin~ lo \1) Jan hands 
I l 
and l'n.io~ in~ 1'1'1'1' l'l•l'n·shnwnls <'IIIH'II'S\.ol' lh1· Slud1·nllnion Bmml 
page 6  The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT  Wednesday, April 1, 1998  

.
,-­
· Wednesday, April 1, 1998 
India 
continued from page I 
decided, and then the whole 
temple, even the columns and windows. are determined in traditional proportions to the deity." 
Narayanan explained the meanings behind choices in temple decor, as well as the idea that individual temples are dedicated to local deities. She also described a trend in the United Stat~s toward Internet worship through sites containing copies of Hindu 
documents  and  images  of  
prominent gods.  
"Cyberspace  is  sacred  

Senate 
continued from page I 
all men's dorms, dining hall improvements and du Lac reform as several issues which were dealt with by the last Senate that will continue to be important in the next year. 
"I really like the idea of being able to represent my dorm and serve as a voice for the women of Lyons," stated Balchunas. She hopes to work on a number of residence life issues in the coming year. 
A number of n·ew senators hope to use their positions to affect change and act as a strong student voice on press­ing issues that come before them. 
"I'd like to see issues dealt with that affect the students directly and that the students care about," said Keough Hall senator Brian O'Donoghue. "We're a representative body. 
space," she commented. "They are asking you to enter a cyber-temple." 
Father Theodore Hesburgh, the symposium's final speaker, discussed his travels to India, particularly his experiences in Delhi. ... 
"I was amazed at the spread of Catholic education at a superior level in India," he commented. "They have won­derful students there." 
I-lesburgh also described a visit to a temple in which he witnessed the ministry of sev­eral Indians to starving citi­zens. The workers had cleaned and clothed them, and nuns of the Sisters of Charity were feeding and caring for them. 
"The nuns were performing an act of love, in the belief 
We should be there to repre­sent the students." 
Breen-Phillips Hall senator Rhea Gertken concurred, ''I'd like to represent the women of BP as best I can and reflect their views and concerns." 
New senators also pledged to bring a number of issues up for discussion, ranging from residence issues to internal reform of the Senate. 
"I'd like to get momentum going towards a co-ed dorm system," said Siegfried Hall senator Tom Ogorzalek, point­ing to last week's faculty panel discussion recommending such a system as just one instance of support for co-ed residence halls. 
"We need to make the Senate more streamlined," declared O'Donoghue, who hopes to work with the administration "to make the Senate a student voice that is heard and val­ued." 
"I hope that we'll be able to get policy issues accomplished 
The Observer • NEWS 
that people shouldn't die like dogs in the street. [They were] loving Jesus in the poorest of his people. I've seen a lot of religious activity, but none that gets to my heart the way this did," Hesburgh said. 
Hesburgh's greatest praise of India, though, was reserved for Ghandi, to whom he credit­ed the success of Indian inde­pendence and unity. 
"Mankind and womankind is one. We have to somehow 
learn to do the best we  can  
together  on  Earth,"  he  
explained.  

"The greatest boast of the Indian people is Ghandi, [who taught that] it is possible to achieve peace without vio­lence. He has inspired many people in this world." 
as quickly, effectively and painlessly as possible," stated Gertken. 
Selak, who will take over for Erek Nass as president of the Senate, says the group will "start into business right away." She hopes to follow up on the resolutions of the old Senate while also addressing anything new that may arise. 
"The previous Senate has done excellent work," she noted. ''I'd like to keep their momentum going, and build on it." 
One issue of concern for Selak is the multicultural affairs committee, which had only two members at the end of the '97-'98 term. "To have almost no participation is a shame," she declared. "It's also not representative of needs on campus." 
Tonight's meeting will serve as an introduction for the new senators, and Senate rules, procedures and committees will be explained. 
rArtlEY 
rrts 
An lftiSH fESTIVAl 
T1iU'R~®'(ll). TlP'Rlb 2 8:00 -10:00pm 
bafortun~ J3allroom 
P~rform~rs: Notr~ ®am~ d3agpip~ d3and Irish ®ane~ Club Irish P~rform~r John K~nn~dy f~nians. an Irish ~tud~nt band 
~[ donations w\[[ go toward a scho[arship fund in honor of ~att~ ~iat, (far[e~ crass of 1997, who was aboard C)CWA_a:TigFtt 800 
Ignatieff 
continued from page I 
The U.N. Charter, he explained, took human brutali­ty and war for granted and assumed that humans were capable of war. The Universal Declaration, on the other hand, focused on brotherhood and peace and gave more attention to the rights and needs of the individual, rather than the state as a whole. 
Ignatieff concluded his lec­ture by stressing the impor­tance of the individual, and how the individual's human 
Holy Year 
continued from page I 
ness, and striving to see others that care to make a difference in our society. Through actions such as these, our culture can look forward to making the transition to another level of communion and communication that will form everlasting bonds. 
"This Judeo-Christian tradi­tion of Jubilee is a call to be a just community, which sees that everyone receives what is owed to her -a liberating communi­ty that knows how to celebrate its commitments with verve," said Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred. 
Along with the jubilee into the 21st century, there will be an ongoing process that will take the community into the next millennium. Major components page 7 
rights were affected by the Universal Declaration. 
The Declaration, he said, "doesn't give people rights, it produces a certain kind of indi­vidual." It is this empowered individual, he added, that is able to make claims against the particular body that he or she feels is oppressing the rights outlined by the Declaration. 
lgnatieff's lecture was the fourth annual Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., Lecture on Ethics and Public Policy, and was presented under the aus­pices of the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. 
to this jubilee call for reflection and reconciliation in order to establish a close community. 
"Through these [components], we are hoping to have our stu­dent body come together and reach out to the poor of our society," Smoyer stated. "With actions such as this, we can only hope and pray for a peace­ful process that will lead us into the next millennium. 
"The Jubilee is something the entire church is being called to. 1998 marks the year of the Holy Spirit, and we should incorpo­rate this into the ministry of the Church," she continued. 
Hoping that the great doors will open a renewed and reju­venated life within the commu­nity, Smoyer emphasized the spirituality of the symbolism. 
"We welcome and invite all different kinds of groups to come and join in on the cele­bration and beauty the Jubilee has to offer us," Smoyer added. 

Study Portuguese at Notre Dame 
The language of Brazil, Latin America's largest and most populous countrv, a land of rich literature, fascinating music, natural beautv and international business opportunities. 
Learn fast: Intensive course 
Fulfill the language requirement 
in 2 semesters 
Contact: Department of Romance Languages 
* The Most Affordable Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year Summer Rentals }une~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Wednesday, April 1, 1998 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Hearher Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ................ Mauhew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ......................... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR.. ........... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Breu Hudat SPORTS EDITOR. ....... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE E!l!TORS. ............... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ................. :Jennifer Breslow 
Kristi Klirsch CoNTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ............ Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ..... . .............. Kevin Dalurn 

The ( )hK"rvcr is the independent newspaper published by the !otudcnts of the Universil)' of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint M.uy') College. h doo not necessarily reflect the polici~ of the admininration ofcirhcr imtiuuion. The new) is rcpuncd a5 accur.udy and obJt'Ctivdy as possible. Unsigned cdiwrial) represcm the opinion of rhc majority of the Edimr-in-t:hicf, M;anaging EdilOr, Assistant Man.1.ging Editor .mJ departmcm editors. Commemaries, leuers and ..:olumm pr('S('nt the views of the amhors, and nm necessarily those: of The Observer. Viewpoim space is available ro all mc:mbers of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's (ommunity and to all readers. The free c:xpression ofvarying opinions through letters i~ enoouragaL 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927. Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsncws. 1 @nd.cdu 
• lETIER TO THE EDITOR 
Let's Keep This Year's Tournament Clean 
Once again, Bookstore Basketball time is here, and every­one is anxious to hit the courts and participate in this 27 year old Notre Dame tradition. However, it came to the attention of our Committee last year that, amidst all of the action and emotion inherent in such competition, certain events occurred that potentially jeopardize the future of Bookstore Basketball. During last spring's tournament, raeial tensions between teams and fans alike escalated· as the result of slurs and epitaphs that were voiced. This type of behavior is unacceptable and will not be tolerated by this Committee or the Notre Dame administration in this year's or any future tournament. 
A'i participants and observers of Bookstore Basketball, your aetions will determine whether or not this year's tour­nament will be a success. llowever, due to the aforemen­tioned problems, the Bookstore Committee has taken the following steps to prevent thnir reoccurrence. First of all, the number of security personnel will be increased to assist the Commissioners with proper erowd control. Both groups have been instructed to follow a ZEHO TOLERANCE policy when faced with disruptive or unsportsmanlike behavior, including raeial comments. In such cases, any and all per­sons involved will be immediately escorted off the courts. Furthermore, repeat offenders will be subject to disciplinary action by the University. 
For the players themselves, the following change has been implemented. At the beginning of each game, every team member must sign a form stating that they fully unde'rstand and acknowledge the rules outlined by the Bookstore Committee. This will serve as the FIHST AND ONLY warning for the players. Any fighting during the game will then result in ejeetion and possible team forfeit. Also, under severe circumstanees, the entire team could face immediate disqualifieation from the tournament. 
As both fans and players. it is your responsibility to con­duet yourselves in a manner that is respectful to all teams participating and to the other fans watching. We all know that as the tournament progrnsses, the level of excitement and eompetition rises. We all want to support our favorite teams and see them advanee into the later rounds. llowever. it remains imperative that you behave appropri­ately. and properly represent the Notre Dame family and Bookstore Basketball. By doing so, you will ensure that their longstanding traditions of teamwork, excellence and com­munity will not be tarnished. 
Good luek to all teams participating. Let's make Bookstore Baskntball XXVII the most suecessful competition to date. And remember ... ultimately, we arc all on the same team hom. 
The Bookstore Basketball Committee 
March 3 I. 1998 
• LETIER TO THE. EDITOR 
Call to a World Community 
I was really bothered by the Outside the Dome article in The Observer on Thursday, March 26 about the racist campaign poster. For those•ofyou who may have ~issed it, the article reporteq on-~­campaign post~rfQt Michigan-sophomore rla}e Winling which manystudents felt mocked the stu· dent civil rights movement of the 1960s and '70s, Upon learning that students found his poster ·· offensive, Winling responded, ''I just did it to have a good time. Some people took it the wrong way ... but no harm was intended." 
Apparently Winling believes that it is 
alright to insult people as long as he who comprehend their membership in doesn't really mean it. this community view any insult Unfortunately, he is not alone in against another person on account this belief. His poster and sub· of race, creed, sexual orienta­sequent statement exhibit a 
tion, gender. or physical handi­fundamentallack:of concern cap as an insult to the dignity for the generaldignity of of the world community, and humankind. · · as such, as an insult to 
Although this event did themselves. We are all not happen on our cam· alread,y part of this com­pus, I believe itcontains munity. It's time we all a valuable lesson for the recognized our member­Notre Dame fami.ly, espe· ship. cially in light of the I love this university -it recent flair-ups in on~ took me two and a half going campus issues con­years to realize that any­cerning diversity. Several thing was wrong with it campus events of late have beyond parietals 'and too much made me questl~p/the extent construction-but often it's the to which somfr~e~b~rs of the things we love best which we student body, fa~11ltyan<i staff criticize most. During my four years 
·value the dignityofhult).ankind. here, I have regularly been touched by 
Because of a general lack of concern for the dignity of humankind, the Men About Campus comic of last Hallowe(ln was thoughtlessly printed in The Observer only to have students comment at a meeting I attended that people were "over*react* ing" regarding the severity of the insult. Because of a general lack of concern for the dignity of humankind, students wondered why America didn'tjust "bomb the hell out oflraq" a few weeks ago during the height of the tensions. Because of a general lack of coneern for the dignity of humankind, administration can't find enough money to prevent future generation~ from being haunted by the Ghost of South Dining Hall Dinners Past. Because of a general lack of concern for the dignity of humankind, Notre Dame won't recog. nlze GLND/SMC, and the Notre Dame community has lost a wonderful preacher, professor and friend because he didn't feel welcome here. 
Many students at Notre Dame have been able to Op(;ln their minds and hearts to realize that they are part of a community much larger and more profound than any community based on race, creed or sexual orientation. This community is the world community of the human race. Those who understand their membership in this community recognize the differences which make each of us unique. but share and celebrate these differences 
rather than discriminate against them. Those 
the open*minded love expressed by so many students toward others. At the same time, however, I have been absolutely horrified by th-e closed·minded hatred exhibited by others. We are young, intelligent students at one of the world's finest institutions, and we have all the world's opportunities waiting for us. We can allow our hatr~d to come between us and keep us apart, or we can open our hearts, come together, share our knowledge, and change the world. 
The choice is ours. 
M. Siobhan O'Brien 
Senior, McGlinn Hall March 26, I998 
• DooNESBURY 
8(X)f'GibJOU
/IJOU/.PN't 8£3­
uev~ tuHAT 7H~SbARRO­
GANTJ&RJ<5 
A5KFO!<! 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I MeAN, THt:R& tu~!ia11e COCKYGUY5/N MY t?A't £JUT COACHrHe T#£51; 1<1/?SARE aJTOF UJANTqA 6U/.F-NOP/?08­TROt-/ IT~ !faN V6RYHARP 5TRCAMFOR u;M. ffOU1/N6 711& tiN& HeRe,. AUIAY6AM£S. 
/ I 
• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
'When you get there, there isn't any there there.' -Gertrude Stein 


VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, April 1, 1998 page 9 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR • fROM THE lEH 
Security Must Re-Evaluate Dealings with Students 
America Must Set Israel Straight 
I didn't come to the Holy Land to study politics, but somehow politics have begun to consume me. I have never written a letter to a paper, and I'm usually not one to criticize the American government. My father serves in the U.S. Army, so I've been raised a patriot, but my time here has forced me to go beyond national pride. It is impossible to ignore the Palestinian suffering at the hands of our ally, Israel. 
The United States has created and nurtured Israel; America now must take responsibility to set Israel straight. The first step is to know about the situation, and how it came to be. 
The effects of the Jewish Holocaust will be felt forever. In reparation to the Jews, the United Nations, with strong support from the United States, voted to create a Jewish state out of over half of the land of Palestine. The problem was that Palestine was already populated by hundreds of thousands of Palestinians. The Zionist Jews solved this problem by slaughtering entire Palestinian villages and chasing many others away at gunpoint. Four hun­dred eighteen Arab villages were depopulated and destroyed for the creation of the state of Israel. 
In 1967, the neighboring Arab countries were mounting an attack on the well-established Jewish state. Israel decided the best defense was an offense, so it simultaneously attacked, crippled, and defeated Egypt, Jordan, and Syria. Israel over­took the West Bank from Jordan, and the Gaza Strip from Egypt. The Arabs surprised Israel in 1973 by attacking on the Jewish feast of Yom Kippur. The Jews successfully defended themselves again, and convinced the Arab leaders that Israel was there to stay. A few years later at Camp David, Egypt made peace with Israel. Today, the West Bank and Gaza Strip are still controlled by Israel, and are referred to as the "occupied territo­ries." 
When Israel conquered the West Bank and Gaza Strip, the Palestinians, who were the sole resi­dents, were immediately unhappy with Israeli rule. In the interest of peace, the United Nations concluded in Resolution 242 and then again in Resolution 338 that the land should be released to Palestinian control. Israel refused to withdraw because they said they needed the land as a defense against neighboring Arab countries. 
In 1993, Israel signed the Oslo 
Accords agreeing to allow the 
Palestinian state, but their actions 
have not and do not honor the agree­
ment. Israel has created over 150 
settlements in its occupied territory, 
and continues to create new settle­
ments. These new settlements are 
outside Israel's current borders, so 
each settlement confiscates more 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Wow, did this Oregon State student hit home for me! I had a similar experience one and a half years ago that also spawned a disheartening letter. I remem­ber spending a good part of the day com­posing a letter that met with the degree of pessimism and rudeness I had to deal with from that particular guard at the gate. I mean really, accusing me of lying, badgering me, insults, is this really how innocent people get treated at our fine school?! It may not be how everyone is treated but it's exactly what happened to me. 
Our collective security needs to re-eval­uate how they deal with people, specifi­land from the Palestinians for the state of Israel. 
Israel has effectively claimed over 50 percent of the occupied territories with the new settlements, all of which the U.N. declared to be Palestinian land. 
Besides blatantly violating the international laws declared by the United Nations, Israel violates humanitarian laws. Israel lacks any law prohibiting maltreatment of pris­oners; so in effect, torture is legal. Israel should be convicted of war crimes for its use of torture. Recently, Israel allowed Mordechai Vanunu out of solitary confinement where he has been held since 1986. Vanunu released information about Israel's illegal nuclear arms build-up to the Sunday Times in London. He is now . with other prisoners for the first time in over 11 years. (According to the Jerusalem Post, March 13, 1998, Israel has also succeeded in illegally obtaining the nuclear weapons Vanunu warned of.) 
The Israeli soldiers act as if it is their job to humiliate and flaunt their power over the Palestinians. At the numerous Israeli checkpoints throughout Israel and the occupied territories, the Palestinians, if allowed to pass at all, must stop and endure any humiliation the soldiers care to inflict. 
Without U.S. economic and military support, Israel would not exist. The United States has been the main ally of Israel since its birth. Presently, the U.S. officially gives three billion dollars to Israel annually -two bil­lion in military aid, and one billion in humanitarian aid -over two dollars from every.American man, woman, and child. This says nothing about the money and support the U.S. gives Israel unofficially. 
As an ally of Israel, we are guilty by association; by giving our vital money and support, we are a partner in crime. The level of U.S. involve­ment demands that we take responsi­bility. We should feel responsibility for every Palestinian killed by reck­less Israeli soldiers, for every young Palestinian who dies mysteriously in Israeli prisons, and for every settle­ment built on Palestinian land. 
The Palestinians set off bombs and 
throw rocks not because they are all 
terrorizing barbarians, but because 
they are struggling to live under an 
oppressive regime while watching 
their land being taken and their chil­
dren being killed. My country, the 
United States, the defender of free­
dom and supporter of the oppressed, 
is a little confused on this one. 
Matt Kutz Junior, Notre Dame Program in Jerusalem March 20, 1998 
cally and if 
,--:----:::;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;;,..;::;~;;i~--------------, 
acting is
stu­dents. what they A year want to and a do, then half let them later at least things pretend have that they not actually 
like their ~------------------------------------------~job. I 
changed much. Just once I would like to think I would be hallucinating ifI saw one get treated with a little degree of humili­of them smile and say, "Have a good ty, not much, just a pinch of kindness. day." For the majority of us who put a lot Leave the power-trip at home, thank you, of effort into this institution, not to men­
llllperialislll and You: Conflict in the Nallle of McDonald's 
Ronald McDonald of Scotland, chief imperial needs. member of the clan McDonald, had the 2. Notre Dame is hypocritical to right idea when he sued the restau­claim to be following Christ when it rant chain McDonald's for libel. He allows the program of ROTC to flour­was tired of what we are all tired of, ish here. that fiendishly annoying yellow and 3. War is never, never the answer. red monstrosity who peddles infected That being said, let me get back to beef to American the main subject, and world youth. He ============== namely that this also is the figure­economic boom is head for a corpora­not helping every­tion that has some one out, as it seems
David 
of the lowest labor proclaimed by the standardsin the greasy faces of ner­country, a corpora­vously exuberant tion whose cattle local newscasters. 
McMahon 
are destroying other The real wages for American workers 
countries' forests, 
-----========:...___
and a corporation who, similar to the tobacco companies, spends ungodly sums of money luring youngsters to their most unhealthy product. It is a great day when our taxpayer monies go to subsidize such whole hearted malevolence and we help pay for their marketing cam­paigns for Chicken McNuggets in third worl~ countries. 
Lump that into the 170 billion dollar tax subsidization known widely as cor­porate welfare. As the supposed wel­fare state crumbles under the greedy gaze of American robber barons, the real welfare state continues to help the wealthy build their mansions, to keep afloat a decaying and corrupt military/industrial system geared to Cold War conflict, to essentially help 
-the top one percent maintain their iron-like grip on our resources and on ourcountry. Much like the false patri­otism displayed by gung-ho members of ROTC to me after this past column, the chieftains of commerce are fleeing like cowards, raping the resources of this and other countries and holing them up in other untouchable areas of the world. Ah, the much heralded global village, in which we all toil for tyrants who, in many cases, have even renounced their citizenship as Americans in order to get more tax breaks (pile up the riches in Scrooge McDuck's vault!). As many captains of labor have said, we should have a law which forces CEOs of American corpo­rations to say the pledge of allegiance in the board room. Everyone is smiling these days on Wall Street. That foppish ole Alan Greenspan is behind the times, man! Take a look at this "bullish" stock market! I'm riding high! Pass the sil­ver bong! Look at my spanking new sports utility vehicle! Do you know how much gas this baby guzzles? No matter, the artificial costs of gasoline continue to be propped up in this country at least, in which the car continues to enjoy the status of an Egyptian cat. And I don't care how many people write me on the subject, let me be crystal clear about the truth in some manners: 
1. The Gulf War was a war for resource retainment, in which we slaughtered the innocents for our 
have remained flat since 1972. The garnering of wealth by capitalism entails the garnering of wealth by the wealthy. 
The safety net has been all but dis­mantled by Clinton and his Republican cronies in Congress, something which Reagan only salivated over, and still does, from what one hears. Cities con­tinue to disintegrate, and people living in them -mostly minorities -are persecuted for poverty, as unemploy­ment continues to soar in the cities. 
Let's look at the job growth that the arm-flailing president has been talking about for years: the number one employer in the U.S.? Manpower. That's right. Those weasely middle­men for your labor known as temp agencies continue to pillage our pock­etbooks. Now the workplace is great! Your employee is complaining about inhaling chicken feces dust in the North Carolina chicken plant? Fire them all, they are from Latin America anyhow. Oh, those pesky chicken workers are forming a union, fire them all again. What's that? We are breaking the law? Who's going to enforce that kind of law, times are good. 
And the times are good, aren't they? A warning to all Notre Dame students, you are headed for a life of serfdom, in which, even if you are not a temp, your value as a worker is about as sta­ble as the glorious electron beaming through the internet. And aren't you glad that we have the wise Catholic sages in the military to practice Catholic restraint in villas like My Lai where we want to sell McNuggets, and maybe open a Nike factory. Captains of commerce dictate where our mili­tary goes and why they go, not the citianes of the U.S. And, hand-in-hand, they merrily trod over everyone in their way, desperate to remain num­ber one, in arms dealing and aggres­sion, and in imperialism and new mar­kets. 
David McMahon is a recent Notre Dame graduate. He can be reached at dmcmahon32@hotmail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
tion a lot money, give us a little respect. Never mind that parking at this school is horrid or that many of us walk what seems to be a mile every morning to our desired destinations. Just an ounce of kindness from these people is all many of us want. 
Dustin Martin 2nd year Grad srudem March 31, 1998 
This letter is in response to a letter by Chris Peterson from Oregon State University that ran in yesterday's Observer. 
--------------·---------------------~----------------·-~-~--------------------­
( s~ 


Turning La~~ tl.e ~lo~~ to 1983... 

Left: Two younger siblings enjoy ND/SMC Little Sibs Weekend 1983. Above: Students kick off the 1983 weekend with a road race. 

Sophomore Sibs Weekend Through the Years 
By KRISTI KUTSCH 
Scene Editor 
Sophomore Siblings Weekend was not always the popular event that it is today. In fact, it took nearly 10 years to develop a standardized plan for the weekend after a very rocky start. 
In April 1979. the sophomore class sponsored a small-scale event called Little Brothers/Little Sisters Weekend. It was the first University attempt at a "sophomore siblings weekend." Events included a viewing of "Pete's Dragon" and "That Darn Cat," a picnic on the lawn of lloly Cross llall, a meeting with varsity athletes, a night at NAZZ, a mass and a bruneh. The purpose of the week­end was to bring siblings to Notrn Dame to experience a weekend with their brother or sister away from home. 
There is no record of a siblings week­end for four years after 1979, but ND/SMC Little Sibs Wnekend in 1983 left a dark shadow on many siblings week­ends to follow. This year the event included both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, instead of being limited to only Notre Dame sophomores. The weekend included a variety of games, movies, picnics and danees for students and their siblings to attend. 
One apparent problem of the weekend was the lack of overall structure, and the fact that many of the events were not well attended. Another problem was the amount of siblings that visited the two campuses; over 1500 young Domers and Belles spent the weekend in South Bend. 
But the dark shadow of the weekend was the abuse of alcohol that occurred. Apparently, many of the siblings fre­quented the South Bend bars and attended parties where alcohol was served. 
Many rectors and rectresses 
expressed dissatisfaction at the week­end, and as a result it was cancelled for four years. 
In the fall of 1984, discussion surfaced about the possibility of having another Little Sibs Weekend. Joanne Madden, 1984 coordinator for the weekend, drew up a proposal and a schedule of events to be discussed and decided at a Campus Life Council meeting. Madden addressed the concerns raised by rec­tors about problems with alcohol, as well as concerns about housing and transporta­spring of 1987. At this time, the idea of pre-high school siblings attending Notre Dame was born. 
The proposal won the necessary sup­port, and in April 1987, 45 to 50 sib­lings, aged 12-15, visited campus for the Sophomore Little Sibs Weekend. Events for the weekend included: a showing of "Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom," a box lunch at Theodore's and performance by the Notre Dame Chorale, a semi formal dinner, a casino night, mass and brunch. The weekend was a relative success, 
tion.  'THIS IS SUCH AN INTEGRAL  and few problems were  
In a CLC meet­ing on Sept. 26, 1984, rectors dis- PART OF KEEPING YOUR FAMILY INVOLVED IN YOUR LIFE  noted. Because of the suc­cess, the sophomore  
cussed the possi­bility of the  WHEN YOU GO TO COLLEGE.'  class planned another siblings weekend for  
weekend, but the  the fall of 1987, but the  
decision  was  HEATHER PAICH  weekend  was  post­ 
tabled for three  ND  JUNIOR WHO ATTENDED  poned  because  of  a  

weeks. At the next CLC meet­ing, the weekend passed by a narrow margin, and the ultimate decision was left to vice president of Student Affairs Father David Tyson. 
Tyson eventually decided to veto the decision after polling the feelings of rec­tors and rectresses throughout campus. 
In a Nov. 1, 1984 edition of The Observer, Tyson was quoted as saying: "Even with all of the plans and precau­tions, the probability of adequate con­trols, given the large influx of high school visitors, is relatively low. Finally, many question the merit of the week­end's purpose in light of the massive preparations and additional responsibil­ities that would be necessary." 
This veto ended the discussion for a while, but in Febru11ry 1986 rectors began discussing the possibility of a small pilot siblings weekend for the breakdown in commu­
nication. 
In the spring of 1988 the weekend was held again, but for the first time under the name of Sophomore Siblings Weekend. The weekend hosted almost 100 siblings and was a success. 
In 1989 and 1990, problems once again plagued the sophomore class, and the weekend was canceled due to inade­quate finances. But, in 1991, Sophomore Siblings Weekend convened once again, and the tradition that occurs today began. 
In 1991, 114 siblings between the ages of 12 and 15 visited the campus for three days of fun with their older broth­ers and sisters. Events for the weekend included a movie and ice cream social on Friday night, a picnic on Saturday afternoon, a semi-formal dinner with Lou Holtz as guest speaker, a casino night for Saturday evening and a mass and brunch on Sunday. 
· This year set the precedent for succes­sive years, and the semi-formal dinner with guest speaker has become a staple of the weekend. Another component of the weekend became the commemora­tive T-shirt that every sibling and stu­dent receives. 
The weekend continued to grow and include more and more students over the next few years. In 1992, the week­end included visiting a Notre Dame foot­ball practice and a trip to Coveleski Stadium. The 1993 weekend hosted over 200 siblings. 
In 1996, over 400 siblings between the ages of 11 and 15 eame to campus for Sophomore Siblings Weekend. Matt Griflin, sophomore siblings coordinator for 1996, said that "everyone had such a good time. It is something that should continue for years and years to come." 
Last year, close to 500 siblings attond­ed the weekend; the highest partieipa­tion ever. Peter Cesaro, last year's sophomore class president, said "it [Sophomore Siblings Weekend) was one of the most incredible weekends at Notre Dame." 
Heather Paieh, a junior who partic­ipated in last year's weekend, agreed. 
"I thought it was a great time for my younger sister to sec how college life actually works, and it was a great chance to visit with her at my setting. 
"This is such an integral part of keep­ing your family involved in your life when you go to eollege," she added. 
llcr younger sister, Laura Paich, who also attended Sophomore Siblings Weekend last year, appreciated her chance to participate in college life. 
"It was neat to hang out with college kids and do college things which pre­pare me for when I go to college," she said about her experience at Notre Dame. 
r,----------------------~....a•x~s..a•zcaa-~. .---------------------------------------------------~ 

Wednesday, April 1, 1998 • The Absurder's Return from Hiatus HI, THIS IS A JOKE; THE ABSURDER IS NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR YOUR SENSE OF HUMOR 


March 15, 44 B.C.
page 2wo The Absurder • INCITE 
• INSIDE CALAMITY 
Listen to Me! 
So I woke up today 
and my roommate's 
alarm was going ofT and 
it was like 8:46 and I 
didn't have to be up until 
9:02-and I just hate 
that. I think we need to 
do something about this 
epidemic.. I suggest a 
rally at Stonehenge to 
protest my roommate 
not turning otT her 
alarm in the mornings 
when I get up after she does. 
I went to the shower and because I was up 
14 minutes early -I never claimed to be a 
math major -and had to wait because I'm 
usually there 13 minutes later and there's 
one open then, but not today. I had to stand 
there looking hideous in my shorts because I 
hadn't shaved for a week because it's been 
cold and I've been wearing pants. 
I finally showered and got dressed and 
went to meet my friends in the dining hall, 
then remembered I didn't have any, and so I 
stood there talking to Smells Like Smoke Boy 
right in the middle of the aisle and everyone 
gruntnd at us when they walked by-they 
were so rude, couldn't they see we were try­
ing to have a conversation and their grunting 
was distracting us'? 
I got to elass and fell asleep right away and 
had a dream that Hootic and the Blowfish 
came to play in 101 DeBartolo and nobody 
cared, but I'm not sure if that's really a 
dream or a reality. I think it's sad. 
I woke up and the next class had come into 
the classroom and I ean 't believe nobody 
woke me up to tell me elass was over -I 
wish people would be more considerate to 
me. 
I made it to luneh but I didn't eat much 
because I'm protesting the usc of Styrofoam 
in the dining hall food. so I just threw it at 
the people guarding the doors. I also have PE 
right after I eat and I can't eat and run but I 
don't sec the point of PE anyway because 
didn't we already go through all that in high 
school'? I mean, aren't we in college here'? 
I also don't think professors should sched­
ule movies on Wednesday nights or tests on 
Thursday because I have to watch "Party Of 
Five" and if! don't see Bailey I mightjust die. 
I think people should listen to me more.. 
The views expressed i ... rile Inside Calamity are those af lk<" author and they stink, so you JlN'hafJly don't care. Just tum to the sports page. 

• TODAY'S STAFF 
One Letter Short of a Scandal Brad "Make Me A Bet" Prendergast For a Good Time, Call Jamie Heisler President of the Celine Dion Fan Club Dan Cichalski Married to the Mob Lori Allen The Fourth Blues Brother Matt Loughran I'm tall and, like, blonde Kelly "Love Me" Brooks Ex-Club Bridget Regular Allison Koenig The Only Person Capable of Undertaking the "Titanic" Task to Make Monk and Patty 0 Look Like Leo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet, respectively 
. Jon King 
Observer Oracle Shirley Grauel Stars not appearing in this film Mike Day, Betsy Baker, Rob Finch, Nora Meany, Rachel Torres, Sarah Corkrean, Brandon Candura, Ashleigh Thompson, Tom Roland, Joey Crawford Key Grip Monica Lewinsky Person who stresses she had nothing to do with this Heather Cocks Complaints should be directed to Heather Cocks 
000!1 rn0~ nrn awn0 []00rn0  aaa  
~ABSURDER  Something happens at CLC Tuition incre~ses (no. really?) Student media hit dead end  page 4 page 4 page 4  
• ABSURD POliTICAl EVENT BEAT  

Starr seeks to recall Hesburgh 
By WOODWARD and BERNSTEIN 
(Nor really) 
Morrissey Hall resident Kenneth Starr is circulating a petition of recall for Father Theodore Hesburgh. The petition alleges that Hesburgh engaged in conduct unbecoming an officer of the University during his term as 
president of the school. Specifically, the petition denounces Hesburgh's decision to have Notre Dame go co-ed in the early 1970s, his work with the U.S. Civil Rights Commission, and his efforts to extend the right to vote to age 18. 

"The world was a lot better place before Vatican II," said Starr. "Since then, the world has gone to hell. I mean, 

really: since Our Lady's university Starr admitted women, the men of this school have become distracted from doing what they ought to be doing -glorifying God. Take the Rooks of Columbus; it's all male. Now that's an organization!" 
Starr also decried Hesburgh's habit of drinking alcohol each day. "Is this the type of guy we want representing the University'?" 
Hesburgh's top adviser, Fred Joiss, responded to that charge by saying, "It's wine. Ted says Mass every day, you idiot." 
Starr has claimed that he has more than enough signa­tures to force a recall vote, but he declined to say when he would present the signatures. 
"I want to wait until I have all the signatures I say I have," he said. 
If Starr gets enough signatures, the next steps are a bit unclear. Ronald Commers, an expert in student govern­ment constitutional law, said the petition would go before the student body president, a position currently held by Max Crippen. 
Crippen was out at Coach's and could not be reached for comment. 
Hesburgh issued a statement late last night, his first public response to the petition. 
"Listen, I'm Ted Hesburgh. 'Nuff said," he said. 
Starr would not comment when asked what position Hesburgh would be recalled from, since he no longer has an official role at the University. "Ooops, forgot about that," Starr said. 

Whoa there, fella! 
SMC prez to 
students: We'll think for you 
By FRANK DREBIN And Don't Call Me Shirley 
S!Yot Mnry·SCollege president Marikate Elway announced yesterday afternoon that students will no longer be able to choose their own sched­ules come fall semester. 
The decision, along with what majors arc appropriate for eaeh student, will be made by the administration in accordance with the Council on Doing Anything That's Platonic. 
"I think it's gotten to the point lately that stu­dents have been making some very poor choices. By deciding what classes each student will take, they will no longer have a say in their education, leaving it entirely up to the administration," said Elway. 
Elway also revealed that which professor teaches what course will be monitored. 
"By having Dr. Cauley from communications teach an English literature course, students will gain another perspective and the campus will become more diverse as a result," Elway added. 
Professor Cauley agrned with Elway and the council, adding, "It's been obvious for a long while that students cannot be~ trusted to decide for themselves what's appropriate. When they go and do things like hold unsupervised study groups, things really start to get out of hand." 
While many students are stunned by the deci­sion, some applaud Elway's attempt to straighten out the campus. 
"I chose Saint Mary's because of its vicinity to Notre Dame. It's only natural for Elway to want us to be looked over properly; we'll make better wives that way," said a freshman who wished to remain anonymous. 
In related news, CDAP has formed a subdivi­sion entitled, the Committee on Parasitic Relations, (CPR) in order to tackle failing rela­tionships with the University of Notre Dame. 
This year's commencement speaker sucks 
By PAULA STARR commented former student body succeed. I'm living proof that you Washington Correspondent president Max Crippen. "My office can do something with a liberal arts has a locking door, and I hear she's education." 
Monica Lewinsky, the former pres­loves us presidential types." President Bill Clinton endorsed the idential intern, will be the keynote Lewinsky's new book, "How to graduation committee's choice. speaker at the class of 1998's grad­Make the Most of Your Summer "Monica will blow you away," he uation ceremonies. Lewinsky, her­Internship," is topping the New York said. "Once again I did not have sex­self a recent graduate from Lewis Times bestseller list. The Hamme-s ual relations with her." and Clark (Ore.) College, will focus Notre Dame Bookstore will be host­Vernon Jordan claims he did not her talk on getting ahead in the ing a book-signing on Saturday in any way help her get the speaking workplace. afternoon. engagement at Notre Dame. "I have 
"Lewinsky is a very energetic and Lewinsky made herself available no contacts at Notre Dame and she passionate speaker. Listening to her for comment on Monday. got the invitation on her own mer­is an orgasmic experience; we're Emerging from the Watergate its." thrilled she's coming to speak," said building she stated, "I am bursting "I just can't wait to share myself University president Hunk DiMalloy. with excitement. I'm glad to know with the Notre Dame community. I 
"I can't wait to give her a tour of that I can be a role model for all am literary drooling at the chance to the student government offices," those young people who want to come," said Lewinsky. 
The Absurder is published randomly, abour as often as the football ream wins. Advertising ra[eS are available upon requesr, bur don't ask us. Ask them. You know, "them." This secrion is all in good fun. You can call or wrire (O complain, bur remember, we're an independem paper, so shove it. 
Special rhanks to all the good folks who took some ribbing in this sec· tion. You're swell. SPQR 
What do you think? 

'I'D LIKE TO THANK EVERYONE AT THE ABSURDER FOR THEIR CON­STANT TIME AND ATIENTION TO ME AND MY HEADSHOT.' 
BRATT TSAZBO 
'AsA PUBLIC FIGURE, I 
HAVE TO SAY THIS IS A DREAM COME TRUE FOR ME •• .' 

BRATT TSAZBO 

'I'D LIKE TO THANK STUDENT SENATE AND ·THE CLC BECAUSE NO ONE ELSE LISTENS TO ME.' 
BRAIT TSAZBO 
'DoI LOOK LIKE A 
PRESIDENT? ••• No REASON ••• 
BRArr TsAzso 


'DoI LOOK OLDER 
WHEN I MAKE THIS FACE? WHAT IF I DYED MY HAIR? fACIAL HAIR?' 
BRAIT TSAZBO 
)\CC6]'.J L 
Sunday, December 7, 1941 
• ACCENT ASKS ... 
..
SKEWED POINT 
page 3.1415927 
Kaczynski's got nothing on this guy 
Editor's note: This is an actual letter that The Observer received last fall. Seriously. As Dave Barry would say, we are not making this up. 
On this, the 29th of October in the year of our Lord 1997, I, the infamous Unastencher, wish to state my demands concerning the North Dining Hall. Failure to com­ply with these demands will result in a punishment unimaginable by the minds of the dining hall man­agement. You may try what you will, even take my microwaves, but that is only a small part of my attack. I have many smelly tricks in store for NDH if my requests are ignored. . 
Hear me now, or you will smell me later. First of all, the students of Notre Dame do not pay for three meals a day to receive stank left­overs, so fresh foods shall be pro­vided each day. 
Secondly, the condiments shall be upgraded -no orange barbe­cue sauce -for these students deserve only the best. We need complimentary sauces for our entrees, such as bleu cheese on days when chicken wings are served. And an attendant must be assigned to each condiment island to ensure that we never see ran­dom bits of food floating in the ketchup. 
Perhaps the worst that we are forced to deal with is the continual serving of certain foods that are not even fit for those who are eat­ing from trash cans. Such foods 
WOMEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
r ----------------------------­
include the atro­ 
cious cheeseburg­er pie, chicken  'KNOW THIS: IF  
dumplings, beef  THIS IS NOT  
turnover, grilled ham steak and  PRINTED AND MY  
beef stroganoff.  DEMANDS ARE NOT  
Furthermore, there is no excuse  MET, THEN PARENTS'  
for the taco meat  WEEKEND WILL REEK  
to be drowning in thick pools of grease. It's called  OF THE SAME INJUs­TICE THAT PLAGUES  
using pans that  THE DINING HALL.' THE UNASTENCHER  
drain; use some  
common sense,  

whose meals were abruptly inter­folks. AND NO MORE HOT DOGS 
WITH VEINS. 
I have noticed a disturbing trend: the recent influx of our South Quad brethren to my beloved NDH. Their overwhelming numbers have continually over­crowded the facility. 
This is not their fault; rather it is due to the utter stupidity of those who decided to renovate South Dining Hall during the school year rather than during the summer. IDIOTS! 
(This kind of logic must be the same that was used to guess my weapons. Nice try, but you were way off in thinking that it is mere parmesan cheese.) 
It is a ridiculous notion to expect the students of Notre Dame to eat warmed up food transported across the campus. It is bad enough when we have to eat it hot. This alone can be blamed for my most recent attack. 
I apologize to those students 
rupted by the unbearable smell, 
and I hope I made.up for it with 
my grand and beautiful fireworks 
extravaganza that took place in 
the middle of North Quad immedi­
ately following the evacuation. It 
was truly a wonderful sight. 
These are my demands, and for 
the sake of the students of the 
University of Notre Dame du Lac, I 
request that this manifesto be 
made public. Only if these 
demands are met can I ensure that 
further stenching will be avoided. 
I will take my leave now, but 
know this: if this is not printed and 
these demands are not met, then 
Parents' Weekend will reek of the 
same injustice that plagues the 
dining hall. 
Good day. 
. .... 
The Unastencher October 29, 1997 
"DON'T CALL" BROOKS 

The following information is copyrighted by D.C. Products and is not intended for personal use. In fact, the information herein lies as Cfassified Documents to which you do not possess the necessary re~uirements to view. Therefore, if you read 
Classified Documents any further we will have to kill you to ensure that our secrets remain just that. Don't test us. We're warning you. Do not read any further. We mean it. Stop. 
respect 
NOTICES Readers with sense of 
el nino every year! humor who don't get The Copy Shop sure does offended and who don't seem to have a surplus of an earthquake to open the complain to the current cash if they're able to run a ground and swallow Stepan staff; it's all in jest (well, classified every day. Do Center most of it ... well some of it they have any connection .. ok 9/1 0 of it is grounded to the bookstore? Did you a real South Bend radio in fact ... or maybe less) know they're open late? station 
Just one month without 
ILOST & FOUND I Information on individual construction on campus responsible for stupid deci­sions involving students; TICKETS 
Lost-$100,000 in tuition Last seen screwing The 
I 
Observer 4 tix for U2 concert at Found-Debt Call Crime Stoppers Stepan Call634-7474 WANTED Individual responsible for throwing a brick .. or was it FOR RENT A real non-discrimination a basketball ... through the 
I 
clause window of a SafeRide van Office space: 3rd Floor Call (219) GET-REAL LaFortune Need renters soon -no relevance to ND, SMC, stu­dents, faculty necessary. Prime location. Caii631-CASH 
Night in the Rockne Bedroom to the highest bid­der Caii631-MONK 
FOR SALE
I 
Equipment and personnel used to produce Campus Hookup; clearance sale 
PERSONAL
I 
I work for The Observer ... 
always write these ­Hi to all my Observer wouldn't you? 
friends ... 
Hi to all my Observer Hi to all my non-Observer friends ... 
friends 
Hi to all my non-Observer Insert inside Observer joke friends 
Insert inside Observer joke 
Do it 20 more times ... 
San Antonio-How about them 'Cats? -Los Angeles 
Insert not so vague refer­ence to how late it is, how much fellow Observerites rock/suck/annoy/etc. 
Do it 20 more times ... 
"I spoke to your husband Alan today, and what I couldn't figure out was" "Alan is in Utah" "I couldn't figure out why I was in Utah." 
I'm writing to my room-Blah, blah, blah yes of Just the facts, ma'am, just mates ... course we're the ones who the facts. 
page fore The Absurder • WHATEVER November 22, 1963 
SPORTS 
Swing&Miss 
Taking a whiff of the news By PEAT THEFLOOR 
GoodMorning 

Kevin Pendergast 
What's the over-under on your IQ? 
SoTHAT7~ WhatHappe~ 
On the heels of the probe into point-shaving at Northwestern, investigators have learned why Notre Dame's placekickers missed so many field goals and extra points over the last few years. 
Is it any coincidence that Pendergast was a placekicker, too? We think not. 
TheNiceltem 

Pat Garrity 
Big East player of the year one year, Big East student-ath­lete of the year the next. Hey Pat, I've got a thesis due next week. Can you help? 
SecurityBeat 

Cooper Rego 
Hey, Marshall U., this guy's application is in the mail. 
TheMatchGame 

Colletto Clinton 
One sucks at calling plays, the other, well, you get the picture ... 
How much do you love The Absurder? 

Malloy: "THIIIIIISS much!" 
• lET's GET READY TO RUMBLE 
Finally, something accomplished at CLC 
By MICHAEL TYESON Spores Writer 
The following is a
'youWANT A PIECE OF ME?' 
list of everything 
The spirit of this year's 
accomplished by
Bengal Bouts made its way 
BRA 1T TSAZBO
into the Campus Life Council 
CLC this year: 
on Monday when dean of stu­dents Will Qwuirk and Morris Hall senator Bratt Tsazbo threw down in the middle of the meeting. 
'I'M GONNA GET YOU, YOU''I'm gonna get you, you lit­


tle twerp," Qwuirk screamed as he jumped over the table and rushed at Tsazbo. 
Tsazbo hurried to defend himself, and the boxing match ensued. 
Qwuirk's flurry of introduc­tory punches, all of which landed with emphasis on the unprepared senator, were punctuated with irritated statements. "I am so (punch) damned (punch) sick of your (punch) stupid (punch) whin­ing," he grunted. 
Mark Jiggins, outgoing stu­dent body secretary, tried to act as a moderator during the bout. "I think that we should follow Robert's Rules of Order," he said. "The section about boxing clearly defines ..." He was suddenly cut off by UTILE TWERP.' WILL QWUIRK 
Tsazbo who told him, "Shut up blondie," and threw him out of the ring by his nuclear­warning-sign colored hair. 
The argument reportedly broke out over whether or not underage students should be allowed to go to bars and drink all that they want. 
Tsazbo wanted to send all of his underage friends out to get drunk, while Qwuirk and Father Still Beacht, who was seen at a recent underage bar bust, want underage students only to break the law while they are on campus. 
When the dust cleared on the center ring, the entire stu­dent body was declared the winner as both parties knocked each other into next week. The impromptu match also suspended the rest of business for the council, which included one item, plans for a barbecue party. 
''I'm glad to see this hap­pen," said Willie Patter Down, XXXVI, local campus publish­er. "I came to this meeting to defend the spelling of our masthead and have no idea what I was going to say or which language I was going to say it in." When asked for clarification about the prob­lems with his publication, his only answer was, "What pub­lication?" 
Local space man (i.e. man concerned with use of space) Mo Assidy claimed that he thought he could find a per­manent spot for the tie-break­er match between the two. "If I could get that damne·d newspaper to go to the other side of town, I think that I could find room by my new, bigger office," he said. 
Student body president Max Grippen called the meeting "a positive step toward improv­ing relations between the administration and all the other students on campus." 
"I mean, hey, we've all wanted to punch Tsazbo at some point," he added . 
ND raises tuition  
to absurd level  
By I.M. FLETCHER  
P.S. Have a nice day  
With a live satellite feed to alumni chap­ 
ters nationwide, the University celebrated  
yesterday the announcement that tuition for  
the coming school year would exceed  
$30,000.  
"We are very grateful to the Office of  
Business Operations for developing a bud­ 
get that allows us to hike tuition up even  
higher," said University president Father  
Eduardo "Hunk" DiMalloy. "With the tuition  
revenue, we will be able to pave over St.  
Joseph's Lake."  
Alumni nationwide cheered the  
announcement.  
''I'm glad tuition wasn't that high when I  
was there," said Rex Fillbin. "I mean,  
whoa!"  
A University suRpressed release indicated  
that the tuition level, while increasing, is  
still much lower than the tuition at other  
highly-ranked schools such as the  
photo courtesy of "In the Ring. He'll Make You Sing" University of Chicago.  
Hey Mr. Kessler, these guys are going the extra mile to help out the impov­"The tuition level, while increasing, is still  
erished in Bangladesh. What are you doing to help? much lower than the tuition at other highly­ 
ranked schools such as the University of  
Chicago," said Bryan Furze, director of  
Notre Dame Public Relations.  
"Our tuition level, while increasing, is stillMedia hit dead end  
much lower than the tuition at other highly­ 
ranked schools such as Yale," said More  
Dennis, director of University of Chicago  
By OUTA MONEY  location that houses corpses. It would  Public Relations.  
Arts & Letters Senior  mean that I liked them too much,  "Our tuition level, while increasing, is still  
right?"  much lower than the tuition at other highly­ 
In an "uncharacteristically" indeci­ All three student publications are  ranked schools such as Harvard," said  
sive act, the Notre Dame administra­ protesting the move but were reas­ Brown Dennis, director of Yale Public  
tion has halted plans for a move of  sured by Mo Assidy, director of the  Relations.  
the student media from the  Office of Restricting Student  "Hey, we're Harvard. We'll charge what­ 
LaFortune Student Center to the  Activities, that the move was only  ever we like and you'll pay it. So stop both­ 
basement of South Dining Hall.  temporary.  ering us," said Dennis Dennis, director of  
Stating the need for more empty  "Next year we're killing two birds  Harvard Public Relations.  
space on campus, University presi­ with one stone," said Assidy. "In  The rate of increase will be 5.6 percent, 
dent Father Eduardo "Hunk"  response to the student media's com­ .00006 percentage points lower than last  
DiMalloy announced that the groups  plaints about moving and South  year's rate of increase.  
would instead be transferred to the  Quad's complaints about styrofoam  "This clearly indicates we are holding 
"cozier" location of the basement of  at South Dining Hall, we are taking  down our tuition rate of increase, while  
Haggar Hall.  the appropriate action and moving  other schools are allowing their rates of  
"Student publications hold a special  both the student media and food ser­ tuition increase to increase," said the press 
place in my heart, and I am willing to  vices to University Park Mall."  release.  
do whatever it takes to show them  The decision to relocate dining hall  But tuition is still going up, and it's still  
their place . . . ummm, I mean show  services and the publications came  over $30,000, right?  
them to their place," said DiMalloy.  after the University contracted a local  "Well, yeah," said the press release.  
When asked about rumors that the  elementary school to assess student  In related news, the University has  
basement of Haggar .Hall also houses  needs on campus.  annexed the state of Michigan so that it  
the corpses used by a local medical  First-grader Molly Tucker, who  could build more athletic facilities and ren­ 
college, he glanced at a nearby copy  participated actively in the assess­ ovate. more sidewalks. Hecent college grad­ 
of O.J. Simpson's book "I Want to Tell  ment, explained, "I like the mall.  uates could not be reached for comment;  
You" and replied, "Suppose for a sec­ Everyone likes the mall. Have you  they were too busy working two jobs to pay 
ond that I moved them to the same  seen the new Barney movie?"  otT student loans:  

Breaking news! 
The letter jackets aren't the only benefit 

page 11 
1998 Sibs Weekend: Food, Fun & Family 
By KRISTI KUTSCH 
Scene Editor 
Many participants in Sophomore Siblings Weekend enjoy themselves and praise the plans and preparation, but few people realize the hard work that goes into making the weekend a success. 
Teresa Hoover and Carrie Hedin, the sophomore siblings co-chairs for this year's weekend, now understand exactly how much planning goes into Sophomore Siblings Weekend,which will be held this weekend. 
The two began planning for the event only a few weeks into the school year last fall. At that point, they concen­trated on finding out what could work, talking to juniors and seniors who had participated in the weekend, making room reservations and formulating ideas. 
One problem that Hedin and Hoover struggled with was the absence of an advisor during most of the planning. 
"We didn't have an advi­sor for a while," Hedin said. "Then we got a new advisor, but he quit. We then got a secretary in Student Activities and then finally Joe Cassidy became our advisor." 
Despite this problem, the girls had a majority of the planning completed before the end of the first semester. 
"The first letter [to parents] went out around October 15," Hedin said. "This letter included a pre-registration form that was due at the beginning of December, but required no monetary com­mitment." 
Hedin and Hoover used the pre-registration forms to get an idea of the amount of participation in the weekend. Then, in mid-January, they sent out the second letter to parents. This letter required $65 to be paid for the first siblings, and $45 for each additional sibling attending the week­end. The letter also included a permission form, waiver form and information about housing and 
t  
·.··· ....  7pm  ······· (";~f!~g~~tt?ti()~  -Dooley Room of LaFortune  
4:30-7 pm  Dinner aft\,UJH & SOH via vouchers ·····.····;;;i<:···  
7:30 pm ':::~  Movie;Gaonles-Jordan Auditorium/CO SA >'.M· ···=:::\}'::'  
...  8:00pm ·~c& ·to:3Qf  *Collefgiate Jazz Festival at Stepan . ·ir<· .>UB movie: ... Tomorrow Never Dies '········. -~~~. . .  
.. ..  \  
football practice  
mpus entertainment  
at Stepan  
ketball games)  
resumes  
""· 

. .... .. "-. 
10:30 a.n'l·;;~Breakfa~t cttNOH & ~pH via vouchers 1 0 am Mass -Morrissey Manor or Keenan/Stanford 
•tndicates events not sponsored by Sophomore Siblings Committee 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 
transportation. 
"I remember spending about 18 hours putting together envelopes to be mailed," Hedin said. 
In addition to the bulk mailing, the chairpersons had to contact student groups, formulate a T-shirt design, formulate a budget, organize food for the weekend and many other responsibilities. 
Overall, 
about 400 siblings are coming to campus this weekend, ages range from 11-15. 
The weekend will begin Friday afternoon during registration. At this time, sophomores will fill out the mandatory Student Responsibility Contract and all participants will receive their free t-shirt. Friday night all siblings will receive a voucher to eat in the dining halls, and following dinner, the movie "Goonies" will be held in the Jordan Auditorium of the College of Business Administration. 
Saturday morning, sophomores and their siblings are invited to attend the Notre Dame football team's spring training practice. Following prac­tice will be a picnic at the JACC, including the performances of many campus 
entertainment groups. 
Saturday evening the annual semi-formal dinner will be held at the Joyce Center, with guest speaker Bob Davie. Following the dinner, a dance will be held at 
Alumni Senior Club. Sunday's events will conclude the weekend; 
sophomores and their siblings are invited to eat breakfast in the dining halls fol­lowed by a mass held in the Stan­ford/Keenan Chapel. In light of all the hard work involved with the planning and preparation for the weekend, Hedin and Hoover approach the 
event with excitement. 
"I am very optimistic and excited for the week­end," Hedin said. "Because of all the time and energy we 
put in, everything is organized." Hoover agreed, saying: "We want everyone to have a good time, and hopefully everything will go smoothly." "Sophomore Siblings Weekend has progres­
sively become more and more of a big deal, and I hope that it becomes something that people know about when applying to Notre Dame," Hoover added. 
"I am very excited for our guest speaker and the campus entertainment groups. I hope that is a lot of fun for everyone involved." Hedin said. 

Photo courtesy of Kristi Klitsch 
N
otre Dame students Karen Cowan and Mary Anne Garvie, sibling John Garvie and friend Derek Blitz (from left to right) dance at Alumni-Senior Club during last year's Sophomore Siblings Weekend. , 
Mariners' bullpen ruins four-homer opener 
page 12 The Observer • OPENING DAY Wednesday, April I, 1998 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 
Once again, Ken Griffey Jr. and the Seattle sluggers were undone by the Mariners' bullpen. 
Griffey, Jay Buhner, Edgar Martinez and Russ Davis each homered Tuesday, but the Cleveland Indians rallied for four runs in the eighth inning against Seattle's shaky relievers to win 10-9 on opening night. 
Seattle's bullpen, which blew 27 save chances last season. betrayed manager Lou Piniella. Bobby Ayala, loser Tony Fossas and Mike Timlin combined to allowed two hits and five walks in the eighth. 
The Mariners took a 9-6 lead into the eighth. Ayala walked pinch-hitter Jim Thome and Kenny Lofton hit an RBI triple. After Omar Vizquel walked, Fossas came in and walked David Justice. 
Timlin relieved, and a two­run double by Manny Ramirez tied it at 9. Pinch-hitter Brian Giles was intentionally walked to load the bases, but Timlin walked Travis Fryman on five pitches to force home the go­ahead run. 
ROYALS 4 
ORIOLES I 
The weather was unusually fine, and so was Tim Belcher. 
Belcher. starting in place of the injured Kevin Appier. allowed three hits in seven scoreless innings Tuesday as the Kansas City Hoyals opened the season by beating Mike Mussina and the Baltimore Orioles 4-1. 
Hookie Larry Sutton drove in three runs and Jeff King went 2-for-2 and scored twice before leaving in the fourth inning with a sore back. It was the fifth straight time the Hoyals opened the season against Baltimo.re -and only the sec­ond time they won. 
Baltimore lost despite 11 strikeouts in eight innings by Mussina, and the defeat ruined the debut of Orioles' manager Hay Miller, whose star-studded team is expected to make a third straight run at the play­offs. On this day, however, Baltimore's potent batting order was quiet against a 36­year-old pitcher who went 13­12 last year with a 5.02 ERA. 
Mter Belcher left, consecutive doubles by Joe Carter and Chris Hoiles against Jose Rosado got Baltimore to 3-1 in the eighth. Scott Service then struck out pinch-hitter Harold Baines and Jeff Montgomery worked the ninth for the save. 
Kansas City went ahead in the second when King singled, took third on Terry Pendleton's dou­ble and scored on Dean Palmer's groundout. It was Pendleton's first AL at-bat after a 13 years in the NL. 
TIGERS II 
DEVIL RAYS 6 
Playing like the expansion team they are, the Tampa Bay Devil Rays fell flat in their first game, losing 11-6 to the Detroit Tigers on Tuesday. 
Joe Randa and Joe Oliver each drove in three runs and Luis Gonzalez hit a two-run homer as the Tigers ruined the day for a sellout crowd of 45,369 at Tropicana Field. 
Wade Boggs' two-run homer off winner Justin Thompson in the sixth inning was about all Devil Hays' fans had to cheer following an hour-long pregame celebration of base­ball's arrival in Florida's west coast. 
Left-hander Wilson Alvarez threw the first pitch in team history at 5:08 p.m. EST, more than 20 years after a committee was first formed to pursue major league baseball for the region. 
Detroit began the second with five straight hits, loading the bases on singles by Tony Clark, Damion Easley and Gonzalez. Randa followed with a double and Oliver singled, which each driving in two runs. 
Randa and Oliver drove in runs in the third to chase Alvarez, who gave up six runs and nine hits in 2 1-3 innings. Gonzalez hit the first home run at Tropicana Field during the Tigers' five-run fifth. 
Randa, Gonzalez and Easley each had three of Detroit's 18 hits. Brian Hunter had a two­run double to back Thompson, who gave up eight hits in six innings. 
The Devil Rays scored four times in the ninth. Quinton McCracken and Rich Butler had RBI singles, Boggs walked with the bases loaded and another run scored on pitcher Todd Jones' error. 
WHITE Sox 9 
RANGERS 2 
If only Frank Thomas, Albert Belle and Robin Ventura can keep it up for the entire season. 
In Jerry Manuel's first game as manager of the White Sox, Chicago's big three flashed the offense the team needs to get back into the playoffs, driving in two runs each Tuesday in a 9-2, season-opening victory over the Texas Rangers. 
Jaime Navarro allowed just five hits in six innings, and Mike Cameron saved a home run when he leaped in left-cen­ter to snare a ninth-inning drive by Fernando Talis that was headed over the wall. 
Before 45,909, the second­largest crowd for a Rangers opener, Belle began things in the fifth inning with a squib shot just over the glove of first baseman Will Clark, the first hit off loser John Burkett. Three pitches later, Ventura hit a high drive that just cleared the cen­ter-field fence. 
Cameron hit a two-run single with two outs, Thomas followed with an RBI double and Belle had knocked out Burkett with his second single, driving in two more runs. 
Thomas' second RBI came in the seventh with another dou­ble. Chicago scored again in the ninth as Charlie O'Brien singled home Magglio Ordonez. Both O'Brien and Ordonez had three hits each. 
Despite being perfect the first four innings, Burkett's line was more reminiscent of the way he pitched last year (9-12, 4. 56 ERA) than the way he looked this spring (4-1. 1.01). 
Navarro, the winner, opened his second season with the White Sox with one of his best games since joining the dub. He scattered his live hits over the first five innings, walked just one and struck out two. 
Juan Gonzalez and Ivan Rodriguez had RBI singles in the eighth off Keith Foulke. With two outs and the bases loaded, shortstop Mike Caruso made a nice diving stop of an up-the-middle grounder by Kevin Elster, flipping it to sec­ond for the forceout. 
GIANTS 9 
AsTROS 4 
Jeff Kent went 5-for-7 with a three-run homer and keyed a five-run 13th inning with a run­scoring double, leading th1~ San Francisco Giants to a 9-4 vi~to­ry over Houston in the season­opener at the Astrodome. Alex Diaz snapped the 13th-inning tie with a run-scoring single and Stan Javier broke it open with a three-run double, as the Giants improved to 5-l against Houston in season-openers. 
Charlie Hayes led ofT the 13th with a walk off C.J. Nitkowski and went to third on a base hit by Rey Sanchez. I Iouston short­stop Tim Bogar then cut down Hayes at home as he tried to score on a grounder by Darryl Ilamilton. but Bogar could not come up with Diaz' grounder up the middle. The ball hit Bogar's glove as he dove and it trickled away, allowing Sanchez to score and snap a 4-4 tie. 
Nitkowski fanned Barry Bonds for the second out of the inning, but Jose Cabrera came on and the Giants poured it on. Kent greeted Cabrera with a ground-rule double, scoring Hamilton for a 6-4 lead. J.T. Snow was walked intentionally to load the bases and .Javier cleared them with a double to right-center. 
The Astros put their first two batters on in the bottom of the 13th against Jim Poole, but the lefty retired the next three hit­ters to end it. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Internet interships in Washington! FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM-Journalism, web design, PR, public PUS. WASHER/DRYER. 89 PROBE GT, 112K. $3000 080. b-"I have SIHO, you have NIHO!" 
NOTICES 
policy, sales! Call Ben: 202-408-FALUSUMMER.272-6551 4-4303 you are my sunshine. (for all of the mean bugs) 
0008 or interns@ interactivehq.org -your sweet boy. MOVING SALE! sofa, Bryan. read the Absurder carefully! -THE COPY SHOP -Family of 1 1/2 year old and soon to 1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR nightstand,desk,card table HELP! Have a good day at work. LaFortune Student Center be newborn, looking for part-time, CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES w/chairs,coffee table,violin, key-I need a ride for Easter-going near WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE. flexible babysitter. Person must be 272-6551 board,small appliances. Call 273-St. Louis? Will help w/ $ Don't call. AND WEEKENDS!! I available one day a week (part day) 0929. Call Jen 4-2783 
Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight and some weekend nights. Great Kelly Brooks. Fri 7:30am -7:00pm extra money! Please call Traci or DOMUS PROPERTIES Hey-did you know...
TICKETS
Sat Noon -6:00pm Ben at 291-3524. We're open early, late, and week-Jamie "Please" Heisler Sun Noon -Midnight NOW LEASING 2 HOMES ends for your convenience! CALL 631-COPY Capacity from 6 -9 students NO vs Michigan GAs for sale !! -THE COPY SHOP -Bob Ross, Miss "McGlinn Girls," 
FOR RENT A 
Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in Face Value!! LaFortune Student Center raini, Ericstotle, Huge-es, Hermit-student populated areas. We need rent money !!. Phone 631-COPY boy, Madame President, and Dr. Now Renting Completely remodeled and ready call Mike and Cory 634-1640 Civilized (I couldn't forget you), see
WANTED 
Campus View for the 98/99 schoolyear. ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and ya in studio-all of next year. MK 1 & 2 Bedrooms Call Kramer at 674-2571 babbling brooks in summer.
PERSONAL
Students! Looking for flexible 2 Blocks from campus or 289-5999. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire-The air is warm, the rain is falling, hours? lnt'l Health & Nutrient Co. 272-1441 place in winter. Love and joy for the grass turning greener, and the offering competitive wages to moti-SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE look at all this junk food ... your baby all year long. Happy, car-sound of baseball has returned. All vated individuals. Second round of leasing at College Lease from June to Aug. 1. Coming April 1 and 2 ing professional couple would love is right with the world again. 243-8009 Park Condominiums, few units still All houses are surrounded by other to provide a newborn with love, joy 
available. Please contact office for student rentals. Call Kramer at 674-SKALCOHOLIKS and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1-"Near, far, whereEVER you are-" TAIWAN appointment 272-0691. 2571 or 289-5999. 800-484-7011 Pin #4523 BLAM SLAM SLAM! lnt'l Health Co. expanding into CD Release parties: Taiwan in May. Looking for 5 peo-4 or 5 Bdrm furnished house, April 1 -Alumni-Senior Club (21 Missing: my heart ... last seen with a That takes care of THAT! pie interested in this int'l expansion. wid. sand volleyball. 119 N. St. 1014 N. St. Louis St. and over) beautiful yuppie heading up north 271-0912 Peter. 233-9947 4 bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances, April 2 -Fieldhouse Mall from Mexico. Hey, does anyone know if the Copy 
furnished. Walking distance to cam-Shop is open late? Marketing/Promotions -Aggressive, NICE 3 bdr home 2 blks from cam-pus. 234-1440. Skalcoholiks' debut CD "look at all ...ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, dependable. enthusiastic students pus 273-1566 this junk food ..." will be available BISEXUAL, AND QUESTIONING Mexico Mumblings: and/or non-students needed for summer school College Park apart-for$12 STUDENTs••• • "If I had a pool I'd be under water Silverhawks promotional work at Need a place to live this ment: call 243-4724 Original student-run group will hold right now." each home game. Excellent PIT summer? Subletting house Change of plans ... support group meeting for question-• "Who's she? Can I keep her?" opportunity for the right individuals. near campus. 4 bedrooms. Call College Park Apt. for sublet this One Basilica wedding date ing students TONIGHT 7pm. • "If I stuff money down your pants, $10-$15 per hour. Call Mr. Becker 273-2910 summer. Price negotiable. Call available June 1999 Regular support group will meet will you go away?" at 1-800-334-4897. Courney, Chris or Rose. 273-0458. call 634 -2658 for info tomorrow 8pm. Call info line for • "I'm all greased up ..." "And 
College Park Apt. Available for details 236-9661 . nowhere to go." Coming Back for Summer School? Summer. 243-5323. Did you have a little too much to • "We need to get the cuenta and
FOR SALE
We're looking for 2 Roommates drink at John Roach's birthday So, it is again time for April's Fool get the hell out of here." 
Call Kristin x2512 ALL SIZE HOMES party? Or maybe you just had a lit-Day huh? • "Is anyone else revolted by 70­CLOSE TO CAMPUS tie too much of John Roach. No Well, then here we go ........... year-old men in Speedos?" 232-2595 SPACIOUS 1 BR CONDO matter what you've had too much If you were to cross Monica • "Gigi? Is that her stage name?" 
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY-walk to campus of. the perfect cure can be found Lewinsky, Bill Clinton, and • "It's like an island." "Sometimes MENT -Discover how to teach NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES Call Dianne Killelea tonight when the Easter Bunny, what would you it's stormy, sometimes it's not." basic conversational English in NORTH OF NO GOOD AREA 272-5444 get? • "Ooh-She's riding that stallion." 
Prague. Budapest & Krakow. 2773097 UMPHREY's McGEE ....... Just a Bunny • "This can't be possible, but the Competitive wages + benefits. 1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert. (That and a night of steamy fun) moon feels really hot on my arm." Seasonal/year-round positions. For 8 BEDROOM HOME 2773097 5-speed, 50,000 mi. Stored winters. will be driving you crazy with a 
................
more information: $2,995. night full of music at Hey, Jack Kerouac . (517)336-0640 ext. K55841 Nice 3-4 bdrm, bath & 1/2 house. 674-5104 Bob Hull Unfurnished, 2-car garage, gas THE LANDING SABOR LATINO Since beginningless time and into 
Babysitter needed for delightful heat, WID. 10-mo lease. For Sale: Convenient condo living the never-ending future. men have 2-year-old boy this summer: M-F $1.050/mo. just a few blocks from Notre Dame. which is Mishawaka's #1 dance Thursday April 2 loved women without telling them. days, 20 or more hours per week, Across from park. safe area. 289-Recently remodeled including bath-club. To get there from NO, take 9pm-tam and the Lord has loved them with-flexible hours. Transportation 5057. room fixtureS. 3 bedrooms, 2 full Juniper Road past Bridget's and Club Landing out telling, and the void is not the 
provided if needed. Experience/ baths & access to clubhouse with over the river to Uncolnway E void because there's nothing to be references preferred. $6/hr. Call 2 College Park Apts avail for sum-pool & work out room. Call Trace South exit. Follow Lincolnway for 2 SABOR LATINO empty of. Jan 243-1058. mer. 243-5668 Cole at 243-9565 for more inforll"ijl.-miles, and look for the Landing on 
................
lion. your left at 1717 E. Lincolnway. 
---~-----­
On March 18, 1998, Father David Garrick resigned as a Notre Dame faculty member in protest of our administration's denial of equal rights for lesbian, gay, and bisexual people. _In the spirit of hope and dignity, we actively voice our support for Father Garrick and for equal treatment of all our Notre 
Wednesday, April l, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 .._,.__ 
We Support Equal Rights Do You? 
Dame and Saint Mary's si~ters and brothers.  
Jessica Abel  Erin Burke  Jean Dibble  Sarah C. Forge  Kevin Hennessy  Allison Krilla  Erin M. McGuire  Linea Palmisano  ioseph Rolon  Laura Threadgold  
Kathryn Abeln  Brandon Burns  Lauri Dietz  Sarah Furibondo  Meghann Hennigan  Mary V. Krings  Maryanne McGuire  Marissa Palombi!  Meghan Rooney  Michael Thrush  
Laura Abeln  Keely Bums  Jay DiFusco  JoAnn Gabrich  Mary Hepburn  John Krivacic  Theresa A. McHugh  Art Panfile  Jamiko Rose  Alan A. Tietz  
Melissa Aberle  Kelley Burns  Sarah Dilling  Yasemin Gadelhak  Gretchen Hermann  Brian ·s. Krueger  Amy Mclnwsh  Carin Pankros  Kim Rosenkoetter  Kristina Tihanyi  
Natalie Aberle  E,ik Burrell  Paula Dionisio  Kamal Gad-el-Hak  Leticia Herrera  Kim Krug  Meghan Mcintyre  Shushanik Papanyan  Amy Rosinski  Anna Lou Tirol  
Kale Abramson, Ph D  David Burrell, CSC  Megan K. Dillman  Laura M. Gaines  Lauren Herring  Mariberh Krzywicki  Kevin McKenna  Krisly Papesh  Mike R. Rosl  Courtney Tobias  
Laura Adams  Adam Buser  Tara Dix  S. P. Gallagher  Andrew Hertzoff  Thomas Kselman  Molly McLeod  Daniela Papi  Jean Roumell  Jennifer Tohill  
Peter Adamson  Amy Buser  Annie Dixon  Rachel Gallardo  Phil Hickey  Chrissy Kuensrer  Vicki McMahan  Lindsey M. Papp  Kerry Rowe  Suzanne Tompkins  
Nicole Addesso  Melissa Byerly  Myrtle Doaks  Cesar Garcia  Ryan Hickey  Vince Kuna  Amy McMahon  Melissa Parent  Jeanette Rubner  Anastasia Tonello  
Rene Aguirre  Timothy Byrne  Allison Dobson  Dawn Garcia  Jenny Hickman  Carol Kurowski  Kelly McMahon  Donata Parillo  John Ryan  Christi~a Tonin  
Brian C. Aleman  Theodore Cachey  Jay P. Dolan  Ronald Garcia  Len Hickman  Sofie Lachapelle  Kelly McMahon  Chan Un Park  Kristin I. Ryan  Angela Tonozzi  
Susan Alexander  Alex Cade  Mark Dolan  Peter B. Garrison  Amanda Hicks  J. E. LaEace  Estelle McNair  Gloria Park  Sarah A. Ryan  Katherine Torrence  
Ben Alke  Amanda Cahill  Shannon Dolan  Sandra Gass  Jennifer Hildreth  Kerri LaHaie  Emily McNally  Er~c Parker  Pablo Saavedra  Veronica Torres  
Shaunli Al!hoff  Lauren Cain  Chenell Donadee  Daniel Gales  Karen Hilke  Marina Lamkey  Elizabeth McPike  Nicole Parks  Sophia Saelhang  Barbara J. To!h  
Lisa Atworth  Nicole Cain  Jed Donahee  Colleen Gaughen  Marjorie Hill  Iris Lancaster  Sieve McQuade  Marcela Parodi  Amy Saks  Elaine Tracy  
Ramada Ameen  Sean Cain  Rita Donley  John Gavigan  Barbara Hinsman  Jennifer Lance  Julia Meek  Leilani Pascale  Marisa Salazar  Brian Travers  
Patti Amer  Todd Callais  Kathleen S. Donnelly  Wendy Gebert  Monica Hlavac  Brandon Landas  Maggie Meek  Wendy Pasillas  Vanessa Salinas  Lindsay Treadwell  
Geraldine Ameriks  Heather Cambell  Tim Donohue  Catherine Gehred  Helena Hofbauer  Mandie Landry  Julia Melnichuk  Greg Patient  John Sample  George Trey  
Shannon Ames  Peter Camilli  Kerry Donovan  Kristen Georgia  Clare Hogan  Mark R. Lang  Lori Mergler  Kristin Patrick  Meg Samson  Melissa Trujillo  
Nicole Amy  Sara J. Candioto  Megan Dooher  Kristin Geraty  Joshua Hogan  Linda Lange  Emily A. Merkler  Alex Paul  Pedro Sanchez  Barbara Turpin  
Isabel Josie Anadon  Beth Schaefer  Kerry Doolin  Rhea Gerlken  Melissa E. Hogg  Jean Lantz  Michelle Merrigan  Nicole Paulina  Rebeccah A. Sanders  Cynthia Turski  
Ingrid Anderson·  Caniglia  Jonathan Doria  Sara Ge!z  Robert J. Hohl  Dawn Lardner  Elizabeth Merrill  Allisen Pawlenty  Christine Sandner  Christina N. Uhrin  
Stephanie AndrE  Marian Cannon  Andrea Dorin  Theresa Gibbons  Michelle S. Holden  Justin LaReau  Kathleen A. Merz  Katie Pawski  R. A. Sandoval  Justin Ujda  
Kristi Andrews  Jon Cano  Robert Dorton  Kimberly Gibson  Mall Holmes  Keven Larkin  Kimarie Merz  Marcus Payson  Kaileen Sanner  Neeta Nicole Upadhye  
Kelly Andrews  Angela Cantu  Julia Dourhwaire  Mall Giefer  Eliza Hommel •  Mary Beth Lasseter  Jenny Metzger  Mauhew Peacock  Mallhew Sanner  Carrie N. Upp  
Michael Ang!uaco  Sara Canzoniero  Jill Doverspike  Benny C. Gilbeaux  Coleen Hoover  Julie Lasso  Mark Meuwese  Kathy Peak  Brandy Santana  Maite Uranga  
Celia E. Antonini  Paige T. Capacci  Gregory Dowd  Jennier Gingrass  Maureen Hoover  Sarah Lattimore  Nichole Meyer  Jill Penlimonli  Jill Saunders  Katherine Utz  
Amee Appel  Julie Carbol  Michael Downs  Nicholas Girimonle  Jessica D. Howie  Billy Lauinger  Diane Meyers  Judson Penton  Rhiana Saunders  Robert Vacca  
Christopher J. Araman  Laura Cardille  John Doyle  Jennifer Giampaolo  Anne Hudson  Daniel E. Ledezma  Erica L. Mielke  Michael Peppard  Valerie Sayers  Dominic 0, Vahon  
John Area  Bridgene Carr  Maura Doyle  Rebecca Glatz  Mary Huggett  Maria Lee  Maria Miguel  Maiju Perala  Adam Scarlarelli  Yesenia Valencia  
Kale Arken.  Anthony E. Carver  S !ephanie Doyle  Kelly Gleason  Andrew P. Hughes  Chris Legus  Meggan Mikula  Faustina Pereira  Kristin D. Schaner  Nicole Valenti  
Colene Arrendondo  Katherine Caspersen  Megan Driscoll  Jennifer Glodek  Eileen Huie  Ana Lemos-Nelson  Katie Miller  Carol Perkins  Sallie Scherer  Mike Valle  
Kristina Asato  Susie Caulfield  Julie Drummond  Susan Gloss  Kevin Huie  Brandon R. Lenz  Lynser Miller  Jaclyn Persin  Lisa Schierer  Susan Vance  
Charles Ashbrook  Jeremy Cazares  Karen M. DuBay  Sarah M. Glowacki  Mike Hun!  Cheryl Leonard  Megan Miller  Michelle Persinger  Greta Schilling  Zoe VanColl  
Kelly Askin  Zan Ceeley  Kale Duffell  Bob Glynn  Denis Hurley  Christopher Letcher  Mike Miller  Laura Pe!elle  Christian  Stephanie VanHoff  
Kristin Aswell  Robert Cellini  Calley M. Duffey  Rebekah M. Go  Monica Hurtado  David Leung  Paul Miller  Brett Peterson  Schmelebeck  Lindsay E. VanLoon  
Erin Atwell  John Cerone  Katherine M. Duffy  Mark Godich  Chloe Hutchinson  Jason Leveille  Emily Miner  Chris Peterson  Nadia Schmied!  Kristen VanSaun  
Alicia Avick  Jim Cesak  Cassandra Dugal  Jill Godmilow  Mike Hutchinson  Luisa Lewis  Gretchen E. Minick  Kevin Peth  Emily Schmill  Greg VanSlambrook  
Karin Ayer  Roman Chaban  Imani Dunbar  Dawn Goenner  Jennifer Hyduk  Nicole Lewis  Mary Mitchell  Jeanne Petit  Megan M. Schmiu  Kerry Van Voris  
Tara Aziz  Dan Chambliss  Molly Dunn  Seth Goldkamp  Courtney Hynes  Jaclyn R. Lievense  Nancy Mitchell  Michael Petrich  Sarah Schreifer  Anna Lisa Vargas  
Cynthia M. Baasren  Marisol E. Chan  Eileen Dunne  Anthony A. Goldsby  Mindi Imes  Joe Lillis  Rober! Mirra  Maria Petrillo  David Schul!e  Allison Vend!  
Katie Bagley  Eric Chappell  Erin Dunnigan  Jennifer Golub  Joseph M. lncandela  Bernadette Lipari  Therese Milros  Rebecca Pfouls  Kathy Schuth  Chelsie Venechuk  
Amanda Bahnson  Jesica Chmell  Adrian Duran  Denise Gomez  Leah M. Ingraham  Neil Lobo  Matthew E. Moberg  Mauhew Phelan  Eileen Scully  Shannon Vieth  
Leticia Bajuyo  Jenny Choi  Denise Durante  Melissa Gomez  Suzanne lnzerillo  Jen Lochmandy  Liam Monahan  Maureen Phelan  Barbara Searle  Mario Villalba  
Melissa A. Balchunas  Amina Chaudhry  Catherine Duvall  Danielle D. Gonzalez  Deborah Irwin  Laurie Lodewyck  Brian Monberg  Darren Picciano  Kelly Seely  Maria J. Villamarzo  
Briana Baldez  Brian Christ  Charmain W. Dyamol  Drina K. Goo  Padmaja l!ikala  James Lodwick  Bernal Monge­ Jennifer A. Piccoli  David Seerveld.  Laura Vincenzi  
Angela Ball  Amelia Christensen  Mike Earley  Jennifer Goodurllie  Jennifer Jablonski  Tim Logan  Guevara  David Pickell  Laura Segura  Lisa Virani  
James Ball  Margaret Christensen  Adrianna Eas!On  Shannon Goodwin  Carl Jackson  Jennifer M. Lopez  Mia Montagna  Philip Pidor  C. Sequin  Allison Yogi  
Shannan Ball  Rebecca Christensen  Edward H. Ebert  Neve Gordon  Kathy Jackson  Joe Loscudo  Vanessa Mora  David Piening  Ronald Selia  Mary R. Volland  
Darrin Balousek  Rorick Christina  Laurie Echterling  Harm Goris  Kimberly Jackson  Libby Louer  Anthony Mora  Kori Pienovi  Wendy Sellle  Laura Vu  
Kathryn A. Bamberg  Egan Christine  Carolyn Edwards .  Heather Gorman  Christine Jacobs  Manhew K. Loughran  Dennis William  Chrisiian A. Pierce  Karen E. Seymour  Andrew C. Wagner  
Maria Banas  Raymond Chung  Emily Edwards  Nicole Gorhelf  Anne Jaege  Ingrid Louw  Moran  Rober! Piercey  Margaret Shaheen  John Wagner  
Brian Banas  Yoom.un Chung  Gerard Edwards  Abigail Gottschalk  Janine Janesheski  Benjamin Low  Kelli Moran  Maura L. R. Pilcher  Hany Shamshoum  Bryan Waldron  
John J. Barber  Jessica E. Cichalski  Louise Edwards  Bill Grady  Candice Janiczek  Erica Loye  Honor Morgan  Lanie B. Pilnock  Jenny Shank  Kelly Waldron  
Susan Barclay  Kyle Cieply  Victoria Edwards  Caroline A. Grady  Rich Janor  J. R. Lucarelli  Anne Moriarty  Erin M. Place  Andrea L Shappell  Kristen Walicki  
Stacey Barnes  Ann K. Clark  Monica Eggleston  Maryberh Graham  Kelly Jansky  Robert Ludwikoski  Shannon Moriarty  Lisa Plurnicki  Jason Stanley Shea  Kristin Waller  
Alexzandrea Barrau  Dave Clark  Jennie Ehren  E. Grandin  Pamela Japlil  AnnMarie D. Lullo  Jeffrey B. Morse  Karen Poggi  Mary Ellen Sheehan  Jessica Walrath  
Brenda Barry  Mary Clark  Karl Eichelberger  Bridey Gran!  Chris Jara  ErinM.Lum  Ekaterina Moryakova  Angela Polsinelli  Phyllis Shel!on-Ball  Mall Walsh  
Elizabeth Barry  Rosalind Clark  Maria Eidietis  lvonne Grantham  Marisa Jarret  Juan Gabriel Luna  Kale Mosca  Randall A. Poole  Karena Shiel  Kathleen Warin  
Kevin Barry  Sara Clark  Jason Elbert  Rerha Graven  Bill Jaworski  Becky Lunn  Carrie Mosher  Lisa Porapaiboon  Lisa Shoemaker  Andrew Warnement  
Kelly Basinger  Amalie Clausen  John Ely  Willem Graven  Foster Jennie  Michael Lures  Gabriela Mossi  G. Margaret Porter  Tracy Simers  Emily F. Waters  
Camilla Bassaly  Ximena Clavijo  Katherine English  Jessica Gray  Christine E. Jennings  Man Lutz  Timothy Mousaw  Mary Porter  Marc Sine  Meredith Wall  
Sarah Bares  Kim Clemen!  Keli Engvall  Norman Gray  Carlos Jerez-Farro  Shane Luzadder  Tim Muckle  Jacquelyn M. Posek  Stephanie Sinnoll  Jennifer Weaver  
Amy E. Bau  Jeffrey D. Cloninger  Tim Enstice  Michelle M. Greco  Mel Jiganli  Andoni Luzuriaga  Gail Mulligan  Tina Pollhoff  Melissa Sirianni  Jinny Weidler  
James J. Beabout  Kathleen Coates  Ryan Epstein  Rebecca J. Greco  Blair Johanson  Nicole Lynch  Rene Mulligan  Julie Poulos  Tara Skelly  Kathleen Maas  
Kelley Beamer  Heather A. Cocks  Betsy Erbaugh  Danielle L. Green  Chido Johnson  Julie Lyzinski  Melissa Mundo  Alex Powell  Vincent Stall  Weigert  
Gail Bederman  Sarah T. Coffey  Amy Evans  Jen Green  Dawn Johnson  Agnes Maborja  Brian Murphy  Amanda Powell  Tim Slauery  Gretchen Weiher  
Andrzej Bednarski  Meghan Cokeley  Erin Evans  Lora Green  Elizabeth M. Johnson  Michelle Mack  David Murphy  Eowyn Powell  Christie Smetana  Laura Weiler  
Jackie Begley  Chuck Colbert  Kimberly Fackler  Rosemarie Green  Jennifer Johnson  Anne Mackenzie  Beth Murray  Clark Power  Dan Smith  David R. Weiss  
Sharon Beierle  Damien Coleman  Jacky Faherty  Tim Greene  Malcolm Johnson  Heather MacKenzie  Jaime Murray  Ava Preacher  Kelly C. Smith  Kurt Weiss  
Kelly Benkert  Rober! R. Coleman  Kaly Fallon  Tisha R. Greenslade  Nina Johnson  Man MacLeod  Megan Murray  Brad Prendergast  Nicole Smith  Jeremy Welsh  
Lisa Bentley  Courtenay Collins  Stephen Fallon  Tammy L. Greenwald  Sandra Johnson  Traci Macnamara  Sarah Murray  Michelle Pribbernow  Sean C. Smith  Luke Wendel  
Nicole Berard  Ian Concepcion  Bradley Farmer  Tara Grieshop  Sarah Johnson  Charles Madden  Sean Murray  Monica Price  Stephanie Smith  Julie Wernick  
Liz Berls  David Condon  Joelle Farmer  Annelle Groomd  Jessica Jones  Rebekah Madrid  Michael Myers  Novelle Pride  Sruarl Smith  Sara West  
Julie Berreu  Larry Condren  Kimberly M. Farrow  Kevin Grugan  Jody D. Jones  August Maggio  Michael-John Myene  Mary Christine Prina  Stephanie So  Max Jay Wesrler  
Kathleen Biddick  Kevin Connor  Amy Fatula  Leanne M. Guerra  Liberty Jones  Tara Mahnesmilh  Melissa Myron  Bea Przybysz  Adolph Soens, Ph D  Sean M. Weljen  
Anthony Bishara  Matt Connor  Fran Feeley  Angela Gugliona  Maureen Jones  Bridge! Mahoney  Lisa Nackovic  Dan Puccini  Jennifer Solano  Kay Wheeler  
Scon Bishop  Jason M. Conrad  Jaime Feikes  Maureen ·Guilfoyle  Mihan Jones  Margaret Mahoney  Kelly Naldron  Gia Puccini  Nadia J. Soundy  Kristin Wheeler  
Katie Bisson  Traci Contreras  Andreas Feldmann  Carrie Gulick  Joseph Joy  Erin Majder  Liza Nalicchia  Ben Pugh  Angela Sower  Emily Whelan  
Tracy Blair  Eileen Conway  Mary Ferguson  Bradley Gurasich  Diami Julian  Elizabeth Malay  Eric J. Nazarian  Brenda Pullin  Jeff Sparks  Jessica Whelan  
Manhew Blanceu  Shannon Conway  Michelle Ferguson  Raul Gutierrez  Laura Julian  Patrick Maloblocki  Amber A. Neely  Paulina Quezada  Ryan Spillers  Kei!h Whelan  
Patricia Blanchette  Erin Cooney  Megan Ferstenfeld  Gary Gulling  Rhodessa Kabaray  Jessica Maloney  Jessica Neff  Patrick Quigley  Sarah Spitznagle  Karen D. White  
Beth A. Bland  JP Cooney  Lisa Feurzeig  Rich Haaland  John Kakkanalhu  Chris Mammone  AI Neiman  Patricia Quijano  Colby Springer  Kristin While  
John Blandford  Kelly Cooney  Michael Fierro  Marcus J. Hagenbarlh  Shanli Kaphle  Samuel Mancilla  Jennifer Nelson  Kristin Quinn  Chris S!ackowicz  Bill Whitman  
Erin Bli"  Meghan Cooney  Alejandro Jo":  Craig Hagkull  Erin Kappler  Waller Manc·mg  Raki Nelson  Phillip Quinn  Meghan Srahulak  Sarah Wieber  
Karyn Boatwright  Anne Cooper  Figueroa  Christine Hahn  Milch Karam  Ed Manier  Jim Neumeister  Michael Quintero  Quincy Starnes  Karen Wiener  
David Bochenek  Brandon Cooper  Mary Finley  Laura E. Haigwood  Vijay Karia  Annie Manuszak  Stephanie Newcom  Lisa Radden  Brian Starr  Katherine E. Wild  
Kristine Boeke  Erin Corbell  Kathleen L. Finn  Dalia Haj-Omar  Elizabeth Karle  K. M. Marcheni  Meggan Newland  Carol Rafferty  Ryan Stasik  Carriona F. Wilkie  
Karin Boergers  Regina Corpuz  Tobin Finwall  Christine Haley  Sarah Karr  Christa Margie  Colleen Newmann  Emily Raiche  John Steffan  Maura Wilkie  
Cindy Bohn  David Cortright  Christy Fisher  Brian Hamilton  Sarah Kaufman  Anthony Marino  Carolina Ng  Elizabeth Rakowski  Jennifer Steffel  Mary Beth Willard  
Kay Bokuwy  Jessica Coseo  Tas Fisher  Christine Hamilton  Emily Kaulbach  Beth Marino  Emily Nichols  Rexphil Rallanka  Mary E. Steiner  Lara Williams  
Shannon Boland  Colleen Costello  Tashim A. Fisher  Kelsy Hamilton  Nalasha Kavalauskas  Elizaber)t Marino  Elizabeth J. Nieboer  Alicia Ramirez  Jerry Steinhofer  Michelle Williams  
Jean Bond  Michel a Costello  Carrie E. Fitzgerald  Graham Hammill  Raja Kawas  Kelli Markelwilz  Eric Z. Nielsen  Ricky RamOn  Heidi Steinke  Ursula Williams  
Thomas F. Bonnell  John J. Coughlin  Kelly Fitzgibbons  Amy Han  Catherine Kearney  Marisa Marquez  Lacey C. Nielson  Chris Ramos  Allen Stenger  Maryellen Wilson  
Emily Borg  Courtney K. Cousins  Anne K. Fitzpatrick  Nikole Hannah  Kenneth Kearney  Steve Marr  Molly Niquene  David Ramsour  Jim Sterba  Kale Wisler  
John G. Borkowski  Angela Covington  Erin Fitzpatrick  Jane Hannon  Nancy Kegler  Katherine T.  Michelle Nini  Jennifer Randall  Laura Stevenson  Deborah E. Wirsken  
Stephanie Bormes  Amy Crawford  Kelly Ann Fitzpatrick  Par Hans  Melissa Kell  Marschall  KCNocero  Anne Rasho  Marsha Stevenson  Beth Wladyka  
Amy Bosanac  Amy Crawford  Kelly D. Fitzpatrick  Susan Happel  Garret Kelleher  Jessica Martin  Patrick Noone  Angela Rausch  Missy Stewart  Wendy Wolfe  
Gabe Bossie!  Jennifer Crone  Megan Fitzpatrick  Bryan HArkins  Conrad Kellenberg  Faith Marlin  Teri Noone  Drew Rausch  Travis J. Stieren  Brian Wolford  
Erin Bm;~ung  Abraham Cruz  Kellie Flanagan  Katie Harness  Kathleen A. Keller  Jackie Martinez  Vanessa Noris  Kelly Rausch  Terri Stillwell  Lisa M. Wolter  
Patrie Boulafentis  Hilary Cummings  Laura Flare  Burke Harr  Tim Kel,ler  Madeline Mas  Mary Margaret C.  Ericka S. Rave11ine  Paul Stinson  Chakkei Jacqueline  
Jackie Bower  Michael Cummings  James C. Fleming  Lacey Harraka  Natalie Kelley  Mark Massoud  Nussbaum  Andrea Ray  Shawn Storer  Woo  
Andrea B. Bowlby  Joel Cummins  Katie Fleming  Melissa Harraka  Eric Kelly  Martha Mala  Trisha Oatley  Lyndsey Read  Shawn T. Storer  Katie Woods  
A. J. Boyd  Janine L. Cuneo  Travis Fleming  Jeffrey Harrington  Jim Kelly  Amy Mathews  Kathleen 0' Brien  Megan Rector  Mandi Srrachora  Larice N. Woods  
Dianna Boyer  Kate Cunniff  Erin Flynn  Rahman Harris  Marsha Kennedy  Kim Mathews  Meghan O'Brien  Stephanie Reed  Billie B. Srrallon  Dave Wride  
Claire Boyle  Arthur J. Cunningham  Leo Flynn  Tom Hartmann  Elizabeth Kerbleski  Katie Maturi  Meghan M. O'Brien  Joseph R. Reid  Daan Streumer  Jackie Wya11  
Morgan Bracken  James P. Cunningham  . Kelly Folks  David Hartwing  Joe Kerbleski  Erin Maxwell  Maureen M.O'Connell  Erin E. Reiff  Leon Stransky  Nathan Yang  
Lawrence J. Bradley  Sue Cunningham  Tera Fonseca  Gretchen Hasselbring  Paul Kessler  Carey May  Sean O'Connor  Allison Reilly  Mary Beth Stryker  Rebecca Yeasted  
Tim Bradley  Kare Cyran  Carla Fornelos  Ann S. Hatfield  Gina Ke!elhohn  Melissa Maykurh  Andrea Oess  Colleen Reilly  Joan Sullivan  Joyce Yeats  
Lizzie Brady  Kristin D' Agosrin  Sophie Fortin  Tamara Hattar  Charlone E. Kibler  Tilla McAnlony  Pani Ogden  Brian Reinlhaler  Mary Sullivan  Jian Yi  
Diana Braendly  Jeana D' Agostino  Danielle Fosler  Lila Haughey  Kathryn King  Kimberly McCann  Fidel Ogeda  David Reyes  Maureen Sullivan  Sally Ann Yodice  
Jay Brandenberger  Anne Dahlkemper  Kashawna Fosler  Jessica Hauser  Kelly C. Kingsbury  Maureen McCarthy  Sheila Okninski  Robin F. Rhodes  Tiffany Sullivan  Amanda Yokobosky  
Alissa Branham  Alicia Daigler  Mary Foster  Mike Hayhurst  Pal Kipler  Sheila McCarthy  Kola Olaniyan  Clare M. Ribando  Timothy A. Sullivan  Alice M. Zachlin  
Mall Brejcha  John Daily  Karherin Foul  Anne Hayner  Kara Kirk  Jamie McCaughan  Basil O'Leary  Marc Ricchiule  Jennifer Sundberg  David Zachry  
Drew Brennan  Austin Daniels  Stephanie Fox  Robert Haywood  David J. Kirkner  Brian McChesney  Vinita Ollapally  Brad Richards  Wally Suphap  Thomas Zahm  
Liam Brennan  Gary Dann  Kri~ten M. Frandsen  Kellie Hazell  Maria Kiskowski  Dina McCiorey  Angela L. Olsen  Mike Rieger  Mick Swiney  Cristina Zaragosa  
William Brennan  Cathy Danner  Lindsay Frank  Annie Hazlinger  Jill M. Kleiser  Casey K. McCluskey  Erin Olson  Kevin Rini  Mall Szabo  Laura Zawadski  
Timothy R. Brick  Aimee C. Davidson  Bekki Franson  Kaleen Healey  Kristina A. Kleszyk  Eileen E. McConnell  Jacelyn O'Malley  Jeni Rinner  Jocelyn Szczepaniak­ Anne Zdrojewski  
Kelly Brooks  Cheryl L. Davies  Elizabeth Frantz  Alison Healy  Judith Kloc  Kara McCrief  John Patrick O'Neill  Ariane Risto  Gillece  Barbara Zegers  
Simone Brosig  T. Davies  Erica Freeburg  Jacob Heidenreich  Marifran Knutson  Yuli S. McCutchen  Marie O'Neill  Nelson Rivera  Danny Tamayo  Jennifer Zimmerman  
Sarah A. Brown  Ryan S. Davis  Chris Frerel  John P. Heidloff  Claire Kolkoski  Lisa J. McDonald  Cassie Orban  Michele A. Roanhouse  Dolores Tanroco­ Douglas Zwilling  
Scan Brown  Julia M. Dayton  Krislopher Sean Frey  Doug Heil  Christina Kolski  Pal McDonald  Molly S. O'Rourke  Susan Roberts  Srauder  OUT !USB. and  
Shawn Broz  Eric de Place  Laurie Friedman  Michael Heinz  Liz Kopp  Courtney McDonough  Madalyn Orr  Leanne Robinson  Daniel Tardiff  President Meli<.'a  
Alex Bruni  Angela De Sapia  Keith Friel  Jamie Heisler  Yukiko Koshiro  Susan M. McGarvey  Meghan Orsagh  Mary Kathryn S.  John Tejada  Raybuck  
Lamont Bryan!  Mario DeCaro  Pat Frierson  Leslie Heller  Amanda Kastner  Kevin McGee  Seton Orscheln  Robinson  Mariela Tenembaum  Parents and Friends of  
Mark Buckingham  Francesca DeLayo  Jessi Fries  Alyssa Hellrung  Janel A. Kourany  Kelly McGeever  Juan Ortiz  Vicky Rodebush  Elly Terrell  Lesbians and Gays,  
John T. Buckreis  Rebecca H. Demko  Barbara Fry  William P. Helman.  Melissa H. Kovach  Kimberly D. McGhay  Melissa Osburn  Nicole Rodgers  Sarah Thelan  Michiana Chapter  
Elizabeth Buescher  Emily Dempster  Megan Fry  Jr.  Nazar Kovalenko  Erin McGinty  TomOsmand  Adrimm Rodriguez  Michael Thelen  The Seven Hundred  
Rachel Bundick  Carrie DeMuniz  Dana R. Frye  Jill Helmkamp  Katie Kovalik  Sean McGinty  Jeanine Otero  Angela Rodriguez  Laim Thidemann  Members of !he Gay  
Tanio Buonassisi  Meghan DeNiro  Todd Frye  Joseph Hemler  Christine Kraly  Christine McGovern  Lisa Owczarczak  Brian Rodriguez  Amber Thill  and Lesbian Alumni  
Diana L. Buran  Nicole DeSantis  Erika Fuehrrneyer  Meggan Hempel man  Michelle Kramer  Matthew McGovern  Jim Paladino  Heather Rodrlguez  Joseph Thomas  of Notre Dame and  
Beth Burau  Katie Desch  Christine Fuller  Glenn Hendler  Michael Kreizenbeck  Nichole McGowan  Sean Palka  Lisa V. Rodriguez  Rebecca A. Thompson  Saini Mary's College  
Claudia Burgard  Faranah·Dhanami  Zachary Fulton  Angela Hendrix  Michael Kremer  Laura McGrimley  Susan L. Palladino  Nicho"ias A. Rogers  Rebecca L. Thompson  


LU ­
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April 1, 1998 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Wildcats and Utes grab lowest title game ratings 
Associated Press and 22 percent below the 22.7 The NCAA tournament as a last year. That rating is tied aged a 7.2117. 

NEW YORK 
The championship of one of the most exciting NCAA t<>Urna­ments in history brought CBS thfJ lowest prime-timfJ title game rating ever. 
Kentucky's victory against Utah on Monday night got a 
17.8 rating/28 share. the lowest for the NCAA championship game since the 1972 UCLA­Florida State final, played in the afternoon, got a 16.0/35. 
The rating is 6 percent below the 18.9 for Arizona's 1997 overtime win against Kentucky 
Tourney bet estimates near Super Bowl level 
AJ59Ciated Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Oddsmakers say the amount of money bet on the entire NCAA basketball tournament may have equaled the sum wagered on the Super Bowl. 
The NFL championship game between the Denver Broncos and Green Bay Packers drew more than $78 million in legalized bets, the Nevada Gaming Control Board said. 
Though the Gaming Control Board does not track betting on the NCAA tournament, experts estimate the handle on this year's 63-game show­case is expected to match numbers posted for the Super Bowl. 
"Before the tournament. I said it would be between $75 (million) and $85 million, and I still feel that way, even though it's impossible to verify it," said Michael Roxborough of Las Vegas Sports Consultants Inc., which pro­vides betting lines for 90 per­cent of Nevada sports books. "We've got a good feel for this, and we have no reason to feel otherwise." 
Roxborough says the NCAA tournament has become huge­ly popular with a wide variety of bettors. 
"The tournament crowd is 
Student Discount Available for Four-Month Rentals 
Corner of Mayflower fi Edison Roads 
Moreau Center­Uttle Theatre Thursday-Saturday, April 2-4 • 8 p.m. 
..vou'RE A Sunday, April 5 • 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
IMf~f)
c~THEARTS ~NOTR~ DAilE, IN 
A MUSICAL FOR THE ENTIRE FAMILY based on 1he comic strip '"PEANUTSH by CHARLES SCHULZ 
from the Michigan-Duke final in 1992. Since that game, the rat­ing has slipped every year except 1997. 
Since 1992, the ratings for the NBA Finals have jumped 18 percent since 1992, the Super Bowl is up 10 percent since that year and the World Series has slipped 17 percent. 
The championship game did have a higher rating than last year's NBA Finals, which aver­aged a 16.8/20 for six games. The highest-rated game from the Bulls-Jazz series. the fifth game, got a 20.1/35. 
normally very young, a lot of people in the 21·25 age group that hotels normally can't attract for gambling," Roxborough said. 
"But that group likes to bet college basketball, and the thing about the tournament is everyone has some affiliation with the college game. Eit)1er you went to a school involved in the tournament, or your kid goes to one, or you know somebody that goes to one, or you lived near one." 
The Super Bowl, he said, usually attracts more big­money, experienced players. 
The result is a far higher volume of tickets bet on· the NCAA tournament than the Super Bowl. with a far lower average of money played per ticket. 
At The Mirage, sports book manager Robert Walker said the largest bets for Final Four weekend were $20,000­$40,000. 
"For us, it was everything we could hope for," Walker said. "The underdogs covered (on Saturday), which is nor­mally good for sports books. There was a lot of excitement and a lot of drama. I don't know the specifics yet, but we did more business than any tournament in the past, and I don't remember the Final Four being that vocal." 
whole, with 18 games decided with 1995 for the second lowest by fewer than three points or in since CBS began broadcasting overtime, ended at 7.3/17, 2 the entire tournament in 1991. percent higher than the 7.2/17 Last year's tournament aver-
APPLICATIONS 
The Admissions Office Needs s Tour Guides for the 98­99 Academic Year 1 Grace Hall or e-mail Susan Joyce-joyce.2@nd.edu Apply before Friday, April I 7 
2 Tour Guides needed for this Summer Notre Dame Students Ideally from the South Bend Area contact susan Joyce! 
COMMITTEE ON GAY AND LESBIAN STUDENT NEEDS 
Each ratings point represents 980,000 homes. The share is the percentage of televisions in actual usc at the time. 

-~ -~ -~----­
Wednesday, April 1, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15



RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 
Gene Brtalik is a sophomore residing in Stanford Hall, where he serves as Athletic Commissioner. Hailing from Seaford, New York, Gene has become very involved in the RecSports program. He has captained the reigning innertube water polo champion team and is looking to own the crown until he leaves Notre Dame. Gene served as the Late Night Olympics representative from Stanford and has participated in soccer, basketball, floor hockey and bowling. You may also hear Gene as he serves as announcer for Men's and Women's Lacrosse games and an occasional baseball game. 
Recipients receive <£~ merchandise from the 


"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 

"Specializing in Authentic 
Notre Dame Sportswear" 
20% off all <£~ T -Shirts & Shorts. 
Valid 4/1 -4/8. 
This ad must be presented to 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive ·<£~ 
I'T'L..,.~~ .....
merchandise courtesy of '-&---~ ......,---y-and the v... located on the second floor of the Joyce Center. The 
&'Ia. 
v••; is open Monday-Saturday 11 :OOam to 5:00pm and Sunday 1:OOpm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
------~-----------­
page 16 The Observer • OPENING DAY Wednesday, April I, 1998 
Mets need 14 innings to defeat Phillies, 1-0 
Associated Press the season-opener at Shea on first and second with inning as a pinch runner, Greg McMichael. Jones fanned Stadium. Turk Wendell (1-0) nobody out. Edgardo Alfonzo's popped up a 3-2 fastball from one, walked two and allowed FLUSHING, N.Y. pitched two innings of no-hit sacrifice attempt backfired as Bottalico for the second out of four hits. 
Alberto Castillo's bases ball to earn the win, while Bottalico threw out the lead the inning. Castillo was Spradlin, lefty Billy Brewer, loaded, two-out, single in the Ricky Bottalico (0-1) suffered runner at third. brought in to pinch-hit for and veteran Mark Leiter com­bottom of the 14th scored the loss. Up to the plate stepped Wendell by Mets manager bined to give PhiladelphiaBrian McRae to give the Mets a Following a McRae walk in Bernard Gilkey and the left­Bobby Valentine and the 28-three innings of quality relief 1-0 victory over the Phillies in the 14th, the Mets had runners fielder smacked what appeared year-old delivered a line drive before Bottalico took over in 

Associated Press sent to the showers. 
Hernandez (1-0) pitched 5 1/3 innings, 
MIAMI giving up five runs on seven hits. The '97 
Gary Sheffield was 2-for-2 with a World Series MVP walked four and homer and three RBI and Charles struck out two. Jesus Sanchez, Antonio Johnson added a three-run homer to Alfonseca, and Jay Powell combined to help the Marlins over the Cubs, 11-6 in work the final 3 2/3 innings and preservethe season-opener at Pro Player Stadium. the win. Livan Hernandez earned the win while Tapani (0-1) gave up nine runs anp Kevin Tapani suffered the loss. seven hits in two innings pitched. He 
In the offseason the Cubs were a major walked one and whiffed one. The player and one of their acquisitions paid righthander also hit a batter. Terryimmediate dividends. Former Expo Mulholland, Amaury Telemaco, Ben Van Henry Rodriguez came to the plate with Ryn, Marc Pisciotta, Bob Patterson, and two on and two outs in the top of the Terry Adams all saw relief duty for the first. The Cubs leftfielder crushed a fast­Cubs. ball from Hernandez over the wall in 
BRAVF5 2
right-centerfield to score Mickey Morandini and Mark Grace to give the 
BREWERS I 
Cubs a 3-0 advantage. The Marlins responded with six of their Catcher Mike Matheny's throwing error own in the bottom half of the frame. 
in the bottom of the ninth inning scored LeadofT batter Cliff Floyd roped a double Gerald Williams from third and gave the to b1lgin the inning. Edgar Renteria was Atlanta Braves a season-opening 2-1 vie­walked and first baseman Ryan Jackson tory over the Milwaukee Brewers. 
singled to score Floyd and cut the deficit With one out in the ninth, Williams,to 3-1. Sheffield was next and he smoked pinch-hitting for Michael Tucker, walked. 
a three-run home run to give the Marlins Pinch-hitter Keith Lockhart, batting for a 4-3 lead. Rookie Mark Kotsay singled pitcher Kerry Ligtenberg, drove a singleand scored on Craig Counsell's triple. 
to left-center off loser Bob Wickman (0­
Counsell crossed the plate on Josh 
1). With runners on the corners and a 3­Booty's groundout to shortstop to give 2 count, Andruw Jones struck out look­the Marlins a six-run first inning. 
ing, but Matheny tried to pick Williams In the top of the third Sammy Sosa and off third as Lockhart broke for second.
Jeff Blauser singled. With two down, 
Matheny's throw bounced in front of and
third baseman Kevin Orie smacked a 
past Jeff Cirillo, and Williams raced double to plate two runs and cut the lead horne with the winning run. 
to 6-5. 
Ligtenberg (1-0) got the win, going 1Florida responded again with three in 1/3 innings and surviving four walks.
its half of the stanza. Sheffield was hit by Braves starter Greg Maddux, 19-4 last a pitch and Kotsay followed with his sec­year, scattered six hits· in seven innings,ond single of the afternoon. Johnson then allowing cine run, walking three anddelivered his first home run of the season striking out six. 
otT Tapani and the Chicago hurler was 

to  be  a  through the right side of the  the 12th. The Phils closer went  
game-win­ infield. It was the New York's  2 2/3 innings, giving up four  
ning single  15th win in its last 16 home­ hits while walking one. He also  
to left field.  openers.  struck out two.  
However,  Last year's big league strike­ McMichael,  Dennis Cook,  
M  c  R  a  e  out leader,  Curt Schilling,  John Franco, Mel Rojas, and  
tripped  started and pitched strong  Wendell worked out of the pen  
rounding  baseball for the Phils. The  for New York.  
third, leav­ righthander  worked  eight  The  14-inning  marathon  
ing the bases  innings of two-hit ball with one  broke  the  record  for  the  
loaded.  walk and nine strikeouts before  longest opening-day scoreless  
Luis Lopez,  giving way to Jerry Spradlin.  game. In 1919, the Washington  
who entered  Bobby Jones of the Mets was  Senators  defeated  the  
the game in  Schilling's equal as he worked  Philadelphia Athletics, 1-0 in  
the  1Oth  six innings before giving way to  13 innings.  

McGwire's slam leads Cards; Reese's four errors hurt Reds 
Associated Press~ The Padres scored three times in the top of the third inning off of Reds ST. LOUIS starter Mike Remlinger. Padres lead­Mark McGwire hit the first grand off hitter Quilvio Veras reached on an slam in St. Louis Cardinals opening error by Reds shortstop Pokey Heese. day history to power the Cardinals Reese's second of the game. Steve past the Los Angeles Dodgers, 6-0. Finley followed with a double for the Todd Stottlemyre pitched 7 1/3 score­Padres, putting runners on second less innings for the Cardinals to pick and third. Tony Gwynn followed with up the victory. a ground ball to shortstop that Reese Stottlemyre (1-0) struck out five, booted for his third error of the game,
allowing just three hits and two walks. allowing Gwynn to reach base. Reese Lance Painter, John Frascatore, and then failed to pick the ball up, allow­Braden Looper combined to finish the ing Veras to score and Finley to game. The shutout was the Cardinals advance to third base. first on opening day since 1980. Reese was charged with a double 
Ramon Martinez (0-1) worked his error on the play, giving him four 
way through the Cardinal lineup for errors in the game's first three the first four innings without much innings. Ken Caminiti followed with a trouble, but the Cardinals tacked on run-scoring single to make it 2-0. four runs in the fifth. Gary Gaetti led Gwynn scored on a wild pitch byoff the inning with a double to right Remlinger for the Padres' third run of 
field. Catcher Tom Lampkin followed the inning.with a single, advancing Gaetti to Meanwhile, Brown was holding the third. Reds at bay, allowing just three base 
Martinez nearly worked his way out runners in the first five innings. David of the trouble, striking out Stottlemyre Weathers relieved Remlinger in the and Royce Clayton. However, Delino sixth and was greeted by a Wally
DeShields drew a walk to load the Joyl'ler home run. Joyner's solo homer bases, and then McGwire hit a 1-0 put the Padres ahead 4-0. pitch over the fence in left field for the Ricardo Jordan took over for 1Oth grand slam of his career. That Weathers in the seventh, and San 
was the end of the line for Martinez, Diego took over the ballgame. Finleywho was replaced by Darren Hall. walked with one out. Tony ~wynn fol­The Dodgers never threatened over lowed with his first home run of the the next few innings, and St. Louis put season, giving San Diego a six-run 
the game away in the eighth inning. lead. Gaetti and Willie McGee each drove in However, the Padres were not fin­runs with singles to set the final score. ished. Caminiti singled. Jordan pro­
Looper, the Cardinals' closer of the ceeded to walk the next three batters, future, struck out the side in the forcing home Caminiti. Gabe White ninth. Looper was making his major relieved Jordan and retired Chris league debut. Gomez, but Brown followed with a bases-clearing double. 
The Reds finally got on the board in
PADRES 10 
the bottom of the seventh, as second REDS 2 baseman Bret Boone singled home 
Reggie Sanders. The hit chased Brown Kevin Brown pitched 6 1/3 innings, from the game. Brian Boehringer took allowing one run on five hits and over and got out of the jam. striking out seven in his debut as a The Reds pushed another run across San Diego Padre, and leading the in the eighth, when Eduardo Perez Padres to a season-opening 10-0 vic­singled in Jon Nunnally. Padre reliev­tory over the Cincinnati Reds at er Don Wengert retired Eddie Riverfront Stadium. Brown is now 5-0 Taubensee on a fly ball to right field lifetime against the Reds. to get out of a bases loaded jam. 
Softball 
ThttrS. Vs. Valparaiso (DH) @ 4:30 Pl\1 
Iv Field 
Mens Lacrosse· Thurs. vs. Ohio State @3:00PM 
1st 200 students get FREE Pizza!! 
Wednesday, April 1, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NHl 
Lindros nearly ready to return 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Eric Lindros, out since March 7 with a concussion. will return to the Philadelphia Flyers lineup on April 13 against the Buffalo Sabres. 
The Flyers captain suffered a concussion after a shoulder check by the Pittsburgh Penguins' Darius Kasparaitis. In neurological testing on March 23, he matched results from a healthy test in September, but team doctors said he still report­ed dizziness and headaches after solo workouts. 
The team didn't immediately say when those symptoms ended. 
"After reviewing the serious­ness of concussions in the league, I feel that it's best to make sure that Eric has enough time for the concussion to heal properly," Bob Clarke, Flyers general manager and president, said Tuesday. 
Lindros exercised caution because his younger brother, Brett, of the New York Islanders, quit the game after a series of concussions. 
News of Lindros' return came a day after New York Rangers center Pat LaFontaine said he would skip the rest of the season with a concussion he suffered March 16. 
CITY STAFFING 
Temporary and Permanent Placement 
312-346-3400 2 Norti!_LaSa!le Street, Suite 630, Chicago, IL 60602 
The Association of Art History Students and the Snite Museum present: 
a talk given by Philippe Bordes, Professor, University of Nanterre, France and former director of the Museum of the 
-
French Revolution, Paris 
THURSDAY, APRIL 2 at 7:00pm 
Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka (219) 271-0696 
EIGHTEENTH-CENTURY GALLERY SNITE MUSEUM 


page I8 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, April I, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
New Phoenix ballpark equipped for 21st century 
Associared Press 
PHOENIX 
Once upon a time, fans wore mitts at baseball games. As the Arizona Diamondbacks opened their new ball­park, some fans planned to wear swim­suits. 
But the swimmers who planned to watch the game while cavorting in the pool, heated spa and swim-up bar beyond the right-center field fence were wise if they adhered to tradition by bringing along baseball gloves. 
The pool is just 415 feet from home platl\ making it a prime target for slug­gers such as Arizona's Matt Williams. Colorado's Larry Walker hit a ball into the water during batting practice Monday, in preparation for Tuesday night's opener against Arizona. 
When any Diamondback hits a homer, water cannons alongside the pool will shoot a stream 35 feet into the air. 
The aquatic playground, which holds 35 people and costs $4,000 per game to rent, is just one of many features at the $354 million Bank One Ballpark that may make traditionalists squirm. 
Even though it's the only domed sta­dium with natural grass -special shade-tolerant DeAnza zoysia sod grown in Palm Desert, Calif. -and 
Golf 
continued from page 20 
Statr. stood in third with a team scorn of613. 
Weeks' win marks the first win by an Irish golfer in a major tournament since the fall of 1991 when Chris Dayton won the Indiana lntr.reollegiate. 
"Our goal coming into the tournament was to beat Ball State," stated Weeks. "This tour­nament was the first one [since the addition of Kentl that we definitely showed our potential, and it helped us in the achieving of our goal." 
The win is also important in the team's hopes to gain a invi­tation to the NCAA tournament. Among District IV teams, only the top six get invited to be a part of the championship. Before last weekend's action the Irish were ranked 14th in the district but look to move up sev­eral spots with their win, espe­cially because of their defeat of Ball State which was ranked sixth at the time of the tourna­mr.nt. 
V1~rnon's 75.50 season aver­
age currently has him ranked 
there are 360 seats selling for $1 apiece on game days, the park looks more like an airport hangar than a tra­ditional baseball stadium. 
With the retractable roof open, it has the feel of a warehouse combined with a flea market. Billboards cover nearly every inch of the stadium, and there are two Miller Lite beer gardens and three McDonald's restaurants. 
Sponsors have even usurped some ballpark traditions. While fans else­where line up "K" signs as their pitch­ers record strikeouts, that will be shown on the "Circle K Strikeout Meter" sponsored by a local conve­nience store. 
But the 48,500-seat park, known affectionately among Arizonans as BOB. also offers fan-friendly features such as a picnic area seating 600 peo­ple and a giant play area for children. 
There are nearly a quarter-mile of concession stands. offering everything from $6 beers to fruit smoothies and specialty popcorn. And there are 340 restrooms for women, compared to only 276 for men. 
The players won't be too uncomfort­able, either. 
The Diamondbacks' 20,000-square­foot locker room has 40 oak-paneled dressing cubicles, each with a built-in vanity mirror and combination safe. 
.. ,..... .. '':.'.,·.:, l 
TOP·:· , IV,IDUALS (of 

The catchers' lockers are bigger, because of all their gear. 
The Arizona players have a steam room, three Jacuzzis, a training pool and an exercise and weight room. An adjoining room holds two indoor bat­ting cages. 
One feature that traditionalists should love is a dirt path running 
between the mound and home plate, a throwback to pre-World War II stadi­ums. 
And there's a double warning track in the outfield, with a row of dirt and then more grass before the fences -a setup Diamondbacks officials say will help players better judge how close they are to the wall. 
College of Science Student Council Presents The Distinguished Scholar Lecture Series 
J. Keith Rigby Jr., Ph.D. 
1. Bryan Weeks, N0, 72-7 2. Willie't<ent, ND, 7 4 ..7 
3. Jeff Connell, NO, 71­
Matt~r@:~ch, CS~, 7~-­Q9V~I::,:H~rris, OA:L<:, 7 •' 
6. Todd Refreshments Immediately Following 
The Observer/Jon King 
32nd in the District and opens the possibility to play in the championship as well. 
'This is the strongest and best balanced team I have coached in my 10 years here," said Thomas. 
The next three weeks will be the deciding factor in determin­ing whether or not the Irish can move up those needed places and be ranked amongst the top six. The Johnny Owens Invitational, Marshall Invitational, and Ohio State Intercollegiate will all feature many of the top-ranked teams in District IV. Wins or high finishes in all three could have Notre Dame searching their mailbox for their NCAA invitation. 
251-0674 
II A TUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chefin Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
l.unchll ..!Mun·SliiJ•lllflllllli t1\lo11 Satm-to Fr·1 & Sat 
He Q~hOmores 
ii~!Get lnfiolved!!! 
BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 
You·re Not a Minor in a Tavern AnYmore! 


DON'T MISS OUT!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT 315 LAFORTUNE APPLICATIONS MUST BE RETURNED BY 5PM APRIL 9 



Wednesday, April 1, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



The number of Americans who die each day from cigarettes..• 

._ 
.• 
Aries: Stick to the issue 
while communicating. If 
you add editorial comments 
about your feelings, you 
may diffuse the power of 
your information. Say what 
you mean, and then do as 
you say. 
Taurus: Your artistic temperament and good sense of timing save the day from total mediocrity. It costs you nothing to
C>ANSIJLL/v'AN DIPN'T fiE;/ A CHAIV{.E To P(JT IN }ItS 
bring high entertainment 
CON/AcTS BfFORE l>RAW/Nq /oD,;:JY's COMIC. 
value to friends and associ­
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Washington Mayor Marion 
1 Blue-ribbon position 
33 Sharpens 6 Tiny aquatic 34 Puppy's bite plant 37 Opera singer 10 Radar screen Pinzo dot 
38 Virile 
14 Thespian 
39 Zola courtesan 
15 "Crazy" bird 
40 Kind of whisky 
16 Moreno of "West Side 41 Ill-fated ship Story" Andrea­17 School essay 42 Olympian's 18 Pepper's prize partner 43 Part 3 of the 19 "Oh. woe!" comment 20 Start of a 45 Atlantic fish comment by 
48 Fish-eating
critic George 
hawk
Jean Nathan 49 End of the 
23 Like hen's teeth 
comment
26 "I surrender!" 54 Helps
27 Part 2 of the comment 55 Natural balm 

I'M DOING t-\ORE 
UNNECES5f...R'( WORKJ 
wrn-\ LE55 PLA.NNING 1 
LE.SS INTELLIGENCE, AND LESS GUILT. 
56 Prefix with -pedic 60 Prefix with logical 
61 Not the front or back 
62 Arctic, for one 
63 Sign gas 
64 "--Dreams" (1994 documentary film) 
65 Nairobi's land 
DOWN 
1 More than hefty 2"--binein 
Berliner" 3 Expy., e.g. 4 Hat for a siesta 5 Excessively 
sweet &As well 1 Goof off 
MIKE PETERS ates. You are as believable as you are amusing. 
Gemini: The Gemini Moon has your admirers lining up at the door. If you want to attract positive attention, now is the time to stand up and be recog­nized. As beautiful as you may be, people love you for your mind today. 
Cancer: Your head is much more than a hat rack today. Your brain feels like an overloaded network of supercomputers. To mini­mize frustration, write your SCOTT ADAMS thoughts instead of speak­ing them. 
I 1-\t>.TE THE. FlRSi STAFF 
Leo: You can argue a MEETING AFTER BUDGET 
point from all sides, but you cannot settle on one
CUTS. A.ND LESS 
right answer. Others are likely to seek your services
CA.REER 
as a negotiator. You are
ASPIRATION, 
especially adaptable when faced with a flood of new data. 
Virgo: You are much bet­ter at listening than at speaking. Wait until you have the full story before offering your analysis. Your brain power is guaranteed to amaze and bewilder someone meeting you for 
44 Overly 
45 Beau 
46 Rebuke Quayle, e.g. 
47 Bucking bronco event 57 Countdown start50 "Candy I Is 
s8Cowchow
dandy ..." 
humorist 59 Go-diet 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420-5656 (75rt per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.
-------~--·-·----­
the first time. 
Libra: Deep thinking pays off in big ways. If you answer only one question today, it will certainly be the most important. People in relationships disocover something new and won­derful about each other. 
Scorpio: Your emotions calm down enough to give you a clear view of the dol­lars and cents involved. Shrug it off if someone sug­gests that you are an idiot. Narne calling will never touch who you really are. 
Sagittarius: Your mission is to somehow get a smile out of everyone you meet. Humor is the preferred means of communication. People always remember the really good jokes. 
Capricorn: Someone is determined to talk your ear off today. Escape without guilt by mentioning your long list of prior commit­ments. Clear your mind of unwanted distractions by doing something that mat­ters. 
Aquarius: Talk trans­forms itself into action before you are quite ready to deal with the change. Creativity and flirtation are your preferred media today. Aimless winds could give birth to a sudden tor­nado. 
Pisces: Just because you disagree with someone's conclusion doesn't make her experience useless to you. Everyone has some­thing to teach if you take a moment to listen. All inter­action is based on the fami­ly model. 
• 
11(' SPORTS 
page 20 Wednesday, April 1, 1998 
• fOOTBAll 
Dunbar 
ch·arged 
who gavn 12 Notre 
• MEN's GOLF 
Irish take second straight Butler Invitational 
By GENE BRTALIK Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame men's golf team has quickly become the hottest team this spring. Two weeks ago it finished 5th at the Ocala Intercollegiate, and this past weekend it took first plaee for the second year in a row at the Butler Invitational. 
Not only did the Irish win, they also crushed the compntition. The team shot two equal rounds of 292 for a total of 584 for the 36-hole tournament. The team score is the bnst tnam e!Tort for the Irish in 20 years and fourth best in team history. 
As individuals, the Irish con­trolled the 1eader board as well. Of tlu~ top six spots, Notre Dame held four of them, with senior captain Bryan Weeks capturing mndalist honors with a total seore of 143. lie was followed by tnammates Willie Kent (second place with a 147). Jeii Connell (third place with a 148}. and Todd Vernon (sixth place with a 149). 
"It was a tough course to play on, especially with the winds," said head coach George Thomas. "To shoot a 584 is a very good seore. and would be a good num­ber against any school." 
The Irish played on a more than 7,000-yard course, and had to deal with prevailing winds of up to 40 miles per hour. The Irish came out right away on Sunday and began hitting fair­ways and making the needed putts. Connell led the team and the tournament on day one with his even par 71. His teammates contributed to his outstanding play with none of the counted scores being lower than 75. The team held a nine-stroke lead over district rival Ball State as day one came to a close. 
As the team stood on the first tee Monday, they were poised to continue the success that they had enjoyed in their past three rounds. 
Connell still led the tourna­ment as he made the turn on the bark nine, but ran into some problems and bogeyed five of the last nine holes. While Connell was having his problems dealing with the winds. Weeks, Kent and Vernon all picked up the slack and shot three of the best scores for the round. 
Vernon who shot a 78 on the first day. rebounded and matched Weeks' 71. Weeks round of 71 came with him card­ing three birdies and three bogeys, including a birdie on the par four 10th hole in which he chipped in a shot from the fair­way bunker. 
Meanwhile, Kent, a junior transfer from St. Louis, contin­ued to play outstanding golf for Notre Dame, shooting a 73, his fourth straight round of 7 4 or under. As the final putt dropped into cup on the 18th hole, Notre Dame stood victorious with a 27­shot win over its closest competi­tion Morehead State, and Ball 
see GOLF/ page 18 


• OPENING DAY 
Firsts of the new season 
Associated Press 
The I 998 Major League Baseball season kicked off at 1:40 p.m. Tuesday when the New York Mets took the field to face the Philadelphia l'hillies. 
Here is a list of .._ 
firsts from some of the 10 games played Opening Day around the country yesterday. National Anthem -Bustl~r Poindext1~r. 
a.k.a. rocker David .Johansen of New York Dolls' famn. 
Pitch -Strike fmm thn New York Mets' Bobby .Jonns to Philadelphia's Doug (;Jan ville at 1:45 p.m. EST. 
Hit -Philadelphia's Mark Lewis in the sceond inning, a single to left field oil" .Jonns. 
llome run -San Diego's Wally .I oyrw r off Ci nei n nati 's David Weathers in the sixth inning. 
Grand slam -St. Louis' Mark McGwire off Los Angeles' Hamon 
Martinez. A hot dog vendor climbs the steps of Shea Stadium's upper deck in New York Tuesday. The Mets' 
Hun -San Diego's Quilvio Veras Bobby Jones threw the first pitch of the season to the Phillies' Doug Glanville at 1:40 p.m. 
• 
scored on an error by Cineinnati shortstop Pokey Heese. 
Run batted in -San Diego's Tony Gwynn with an HBI groundout off Cincinnati's Mike Hemlinger in the third 
?l: 
~w
! • 

~ 
v;P 
Notre Dame Sports Information Senior captain Bryan Weeks led the field of 90 golfers with rounds of 72 and 71 at the Butler lnvitiation last weekend. The Irish won the tournament with a 584 team score. 
inning. Strikeout -Philadelphia's Curt Double -San Diego's Steve Finley off Schilling struck out New York's Edgardo Remlinger in the third inning. Alfonzo in the first inning. Out -Glanville grounded to shortstop Steal -Texas' Tom Goodwin stole sec­
Rey Ordonez. 
Western Michigan Today, 5 p.m. 
Valparaiso (DH) Thursday, 4:30 p.m. 
• 
Ohio State Thursday, 3 p.m. 
•
at Ohio State Saturday, 1 p.m. ~ 
ond in the first inning. 
Men's Golf at Kentucky Intercollegiate Friday and Saturday 
Women's Golf at Indiana Invitational Saturday and Sunday 
at William and Mary Saturday, I p.m. 
KAT 

a) 
•CBS gets lowest title game ratings ~ 
see page 14 
...... 
riJ •Lindros may return in mid-April 
JS 
see page 17 


