¦ The Tigers of LSU are coming to town for 
¦ Sammy Sosa may not have won the home tun 
Friday
a rematch of last year's Independence Bowl. 
race, bur rhe Cubs slugger was named National 
Check out the match-ups and get an in-depth 
League MVP Thursday. 
look at the frish. 
NOVEMBER
\JU
--~ Irish Insider 20, 1998 
Sports• 23 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXI I NO. 56 WWW. N D.EDU/~OBSERVER 
---·--­
.,"-""'""--'"--·--•--•,.~-•-··•····--"u,,.,_,,=--·• ··•-"'~ FRIDAY FEATURE -~­
,i Security vows :I 
strict penalty
A CENTER OF HOPE
I 
for mischief
Program provides 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR Am,ciate News Editor 
, Screes a new start
i Although student loaclnrs and Univorsity 
administrators aro conlidcnt that tlw half­; l\y ERICA THESING 
time hijinks of throwing marine life and i' New, Writer (i other objects will not continue at this 
!/ ;J Saturday's game, some prevnntativn mna­:1 Bob Srn•es slraightnns his tin, drawing: attnntion to sures will be instituted just in case,
!_~,1 
thP blue nanw tag lw proudly wears. The design f "The consensus of the entire University down its righl sidn rfm10l!is him as a Bravo graduate, family ... is that we need to put a stop to the a far! of' which lw is proud. lln gnsturns lo the wait-lj throwing," said Cappy Gagnon, coordinator 
•_··_/ ing roi,m 111' ll111 Center l'or tlw Ilomdnss, noting that [_-1 of stadium personnel, 
it is 1warly Pmpty as the gunsts occupy thnir lime in ,, 1 This Saturday, every student will havn to ·; class or job hunting. You can't slnrnotype a homeless ,: enter the stadium through gate E. ·r p!!l"SOII, iw said. :i Although the ushers always do "cursory 
Sl:rnc•s should know. lie is a guest at the Center j\ checks for checks for contraband ... This himsdl'. li particular game we're going lo do it way __I "1'1\oplP conw in lwrn for a variety of masons," he ;; more," said Gagnon. said. "MysPif', I was living with friends and I necdnd !1 "If students do attempt to bring things in 'l lo mak1i a change in my lifo, so I came hem. I didn't ~I ~ ... not only will the items be confiscated ,,. 
want lo conw hen\ ... bncausn it was a homeless ccn-;! but their ticket will be confiscated as well," ~ tnr. l'vP never thought of mysdf as a homeless per­~l <said Bill Kirk, assistant vice president of i son. I'm collegtl educated. I've held management Residence Life. 
• p()sitions in South Bond fai:tories. I've made a lot of Kirk described thn admission policy for rn<mtiy in South Bond." The Observer/Jeff Hsu Saturday as "zero-tolerance." But alcohol intnrforml in Serens' life and he came "Just because I'm homeless doesn't mean I'm not a person," said Bob In the past, those who attnmpted to bring to ttw C1mtcr after 1 I othnr treatment programs Screes. Screes is a Center resident getting back on his feet. inappropriate items into t.hn stadium were ! l'aillid, Ile has nothing but praise for the Cm1tnr and asked to dispose of the item but wern still 
its staff, whom Im credits with his sobrioty. allowed into the game, Approximately 30 "That was llw start of my lil'e again," he said. bags of marshmat!ows wore confiscated




ND s ties are close 
1 
"ThPy rnally cam, It's rnally gnnuinc. It's not a prior to the Baylor game, according to Hex tiu:ade." By JULIA GILLESPIE tic unbelievable problems that Hakow, director of Security and Police. For Tlw Cnnter for the Ilonmlcss, located at tlw corner News Writer volunteers help them to over­this game, however, the penalty wit! be of Sample and Michigan Streets in S<rnlh Bend, come," said Jordan Curnes, ser­more sevnre, opmwd its doors in 1CJ88 al'ter two Notre Dame fac­The Notre Dame community vice commissioner of Keough "You can keep the contraband, but we 
uIty nwmlwrs encourag1\d University president has worked closely with the Hall. keep the ticket," said Gagnon. Fatlwr Edward Malloy to addrnss the issue of homo­Center for the I lomeless in South "[t takes a lot of courage on Once inside the stadium, fans should not lnssrwss in the community. The faculty members. Bend since helping to found the the part of the residents to come foe! that the coast is dear. 
·who volt111tn11rnd at a traditional-style homrless shel­center in 1988, giving student in for help. Many residents want "We have a vnry pownrful canrnra that lnr, told Malloy that llwrn wasn't 1mm1gh long-term volunteers an opportunity to to hear about college and how we can zoom in and got pnople's faces on," hdp for pnople struggling to gnt back on their feet. develop close bonds with resi­they can achieve their goals and said Hakow. Af'tPr winning approval from thn Board of' Trustees, dents through campus organiza­dreams," But the cameras can catch morn than tlw UnivPrsity µurrhased and rnmodelnd a 50,000 tions and service groups. Curnes said that he has just squid-tossers -they also have the 
"The residents of the home formed friendships with resi-capability to capture tailgating activities have amazing !ivr,s and they bat-outside the stadium as far away as Notrn see CENTER / page 4 see STUDENTS/ page 4 see SECURITY I page 4 

Keough freshman becomes 'bubble boy,' wins bet 
By JOHN HUSTON a,m. to shower and go to class, lie News Writer was required to return to his bubble within 15 minutes atfor nach class. 
Knough llnll freshman Sean Gocke lie survived the week on Grab n spent this weok living in a bubble Go's, which had to be brought to after making a $'! :rn bet with his him. l'rim1ds. "If he's not in class, he's in the 
The bet originalcd Saturday when bubble," said junior Joe Schneider, Gocke and his roommate, Tony one of those involved with the bet. Baldea, hosted a party in their room, The contract oven stipulated that Th()y pushed their bunks against the Gocke could not leave thn bubble to walls and put tarp up to prevent go to the bathroom. He could, how­partygoers from spilling anything on ever, relieve himself during class­their desks. Gocke spent a couple time. hours inside the "bubble" under his Gocke said that he actually looked bed, playing CDs f'or the party. His forward to his biology lab this wonk friends joked about it later and "because it's realty long." 
The Observer/John Daily decid1~d to test how long he could "People are keeping watch over actually endure inside the cubicle. him all the time, in order to ensure Baldea and !'our others drafted a that be doosn't violate the contract," well below minimum wage."
A makeshift party 
The only possussions Gocko had in
contract that outlined the details of Schneider said. 
his "bubble" were his chair, his
the bet. A total of 18 people bet any­The ordeal officially began Monday 
books, his clothes and his computer,
where from $2 to $20 on whether ' morning and lasted through Gocko's
shelter becomes a 
"I really don't have much in here
Gocke could last the week in the last class Thursday, which ended at 
at all," he said.
bubble. Each morning Gocke, now 3:30 p.m. Gocke pulled in $130 for 
known as "the Bubble Boy," was his troubles. released from his five-foot space at 8 "I did the math," Gocke said. "It's see BUBBLE/ page 4 
more long-term home 



page2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 
The art of 
understanding 
Art is certainly a con-C.R. "Teo" Teodoro fusing, yet intriguing Hlumarions Editor subject to ponder. Despite how we define art, it is a very malleable thing. What is art to one is not to another. Even through history, conceptions of what is "quality" art have changed. This dissention is present in the art community today, with different opinions on what should be considered "good" art. 
If there were such a difference of opinion within the art community, then it would not be unreasonable to assume that those who are not familiar with art would also not appreciate some forms of art. In fact, these outsiders of the art community may very well view strange and unfamiliar art with disdain and ridicule. And it is their lack of under­standing of art that prompts them to disre­gard such pieces of art as mere trash or waste of materials. 
What these people lack is an understanding not only of what art is and what it can be, but also how art is seen through the eyes of oth­ers. Indeed, much of our society places a value on art. This is quite evident in the num­ber of museums, galleries, historians and critics dedicated to art and its many forms. 
But because people do not understand something, then there is a tendency to either fear it or treat it with contempt. Those who are unfamiliar with art may view it as some­thing foreign and then distance themselves from it. Sometimes, they openly attack art and denounce it as though it was a complete waste of resources. Their lack of understand­ing is, in a sense, xenophobia. 
Now consider what you have just read, and replace art and artists with something such as Jews, Muslims, non-Christians, non­Catholics, gays, lesbians, homosexuals, bisex­uals, foreigners, whites, blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans, Asians, Europeans, Canadians, lawyers, police officers, gang members, poor people, rich people, people who listen to rap, people who listen to coun­try, people who listen to John Tesh, vegetari­ans, people who like to eat flesh of animals (cows preferred), people who dress all in black, people who dress all in white, people who dress like Dennis Rodman, athletes, scholars, scholar-athletes, college students, people who don't have a college degree, mothers, fathers, parents or guardians, chil­dren, sons, daughters, single parents, divorced parents, children from broken homes, criminals, physically handicapped people, mentally handicapped people, engi­neers, scientists, writers, performers, musi­cians, business people, historians, capitalists, socialists, communists, fascists, anarchists, nihilists, revolutionaries, rebels, traditional­ists, conservatives, liberals, Republicans, Democrats, feminists, girls from Saint Mary's College, guys from Zahm hall, guys from Fisher Hall, video game players, Playstation gamers, N64 game players, role-players, post-modern subculture goths, people who watch Japanimation, people who collect comic books, Notre Dame students, Boston College students, people in the military, peo­ple who work in fast food restaurants, mar­tial artists, NRA members, pacifists, people who smoke, people who don't smoke, people who smoke curried ham... and any one else I left out (my apologies, space considerations). 
Now just think how much better the world would be with all that understanding. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TooAv'S STAFF  
Scene  
News  Sarah Dylag  
Tim Logan  Kristi Klitsch  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Brad Untiedt  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  Anthony Bianco  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Monica Garza  

Th, Obmver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xcepr during exam and va,;.:ation periods. T'he Observer 1~ a ni.:mbci· of the A~socbtcd Prcs!I. All r~production righr'i are r~sen·~d. 
...............--.----...----~-·---­
The Observer· INSIDE Friday, November 20, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Penn State student government president set for trial 

BELLEFONTE, Penn. 
Jason Covener, former undergradu­ate student government senate presi­dent, was ordered yesterday to stand trial for computer tampering in the University Student Government office. 
Covener will be tried on charges of interception of electronic or oral com-­munications and unlawful use of a computer within the USG office. A charge of criminal conspiracy was dismissed. 
Assistant District Attorney Karen Kuebler said Covener's trial should begin in early February. 
"There was another case (in which a wire tap law was applied to e-mail) in Pittsburgh about six years ago, but this is the first in Centre County," Kuebler said. 
Covener is accused of obtaining USG members' and other students' e-mail messages and distributing the infor­mation, according to court docu-


NNSTATf 
ments. 

Karen Muir, Covener's attorney, motioned to dismiss several of the charges on grounds of insufficient tes­timony and evidence. Muir said the charge of criminal conspiracy should be dropped because no one else has been charged in the matter. 
Kuebler argued the criminal con­spiracy charge does not require oth­ers to be charged; however, District Justice Allen Sinclair ruled in Covener's favor. 
Several USG members, an official 
¦ UNIVERSlTV OF MICHIGAN 
Colleges make laptops mandatory 

ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
By the year 2000, the computer screen may replace the notebook. Colleges and universities are drafting and pass­ing proposals to require students to own laptop comput­ers, making technology an even more integral part of stu­dent life. Northern Michigan University will require stu­dents to lease one of the school's laptop computers by fall 2000, said Fred Joyal, assistant for academic administra­tion and planning at the university. He said students will pay $600 a year for an IBM laptop. "We think in order to be a part of the 21st Century, those people involved in the telecommunications world are those who hav{l had access to information," Joyal said. Students should be as familiar with computers as they are with televisions and tele­phones, he added. "It will enable a lot more collaboration between students and faculty," Joyal said. Because NMU is a commuter school, laptops will allow students to do more work on campus instead of driving home to type. 
¦ OREGON STATE UNIVERSITY Citations, fine cause frat to go dry 

CORVALLIS, Ore. 
Oregon State's Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity president John Seethoff announced yesterday that the fraternity will go dry, effective immediately and through the end of win­ter term. "Going dry" means there is no alcohol allowed on the fraternity premises. This decision came in reaction to events at a Saturday night "Sig-Eps" social function that drew the Corvallis Police, several citations to individuals and a $45,000 fine to the fraternity. "We understand that we're responsible for our members and guests," Seethoff said. "We care about our members. We're willing to take action to improve our operations." Seethoff explained that he and other members feel that alcohol has become too accessible to members. He added that the fine of $45,000 isn't as much of a concern to the chapter at the moment because the members are more concerned with dealing. with the immediate problem at hand: alcohol accessibility and taking responsibility for their own actions. 
from the Penn State Network Security Office and Penn State Police officer Thomas Sowerby, the ·lead investiga­tor in the case, testified at the hear­ing. 
Fraternity senator James Hornick said he witnessed Covener viewing the logs of a keystroke monitoring program in the USG office during the summer. Hornick also testified that Covener highlighted a password and user ID retrieved by the program. 
Keystroke monitoring is a process by which a person can view or record the commands entered and the com­puter's response, according to the National Institute of Standards and Technology. By recording characters as users type them, keystroke moni­toring programs allow viewing of e­mail and other information. 
Town senator Richard Sollman tes­tified he retrieved the logs from the USG office on Covener's behalf. 

¦ BOSTON UNIVERSITY Study finds fall in value of Pell grants 
BOSTON, Mass. 
Pell grants cover about half as much of the cost of col­lege as they did 20 years ago, according to a study released yesterday. In 1996-1997, the average Pell grant covered 9 percent of the cost of a private four-ye\lr school. During 1976-77, the grant covered 19 percent, according fo a study conducted by the Institute for Higher Education Policy and the Education Resources. The study also found that the average Pell grant is down 23 percent since 1976, while the price of college is up 49 percent. The figures adjust for inflation. More than 3.6 million students receive federal Pell grants, which are awarded by the U.S. Department of Education based on financial need. "Overall enrollments are up, the public is supportive and funding has modestly increased," !HEP president James Merisotis said. "But these trends mask the fact that there is a gap of almost 30 percentage points in enrollment between low-income and high-income students." 
¦ GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY Women's center denied space 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
GW students trying to establish a women's center at the University said they were denied the space they requested in Strong Hall. Ruthie Vishlitzky, a member of the organi­zation trying to set up the GW Women's Center, said Strong Hall community director Anna Cenatiempo informed the group Friday of the Community Living and Learning Center's decision. "Anna (Cenatiempo) said she did research of her own about what students in Strong Hall wanted," Vishlitzky said. "She said they wanted more study space, but we already said we were willing to com­promise. We said we would designate study times." Cenatiempo declined to comment for this story. Assistant dean of students Mark Levine did not return phone calls requesting comment. Vishlitzky and Heather Hurwitz, another member of the organization, said they are unsure whether Cenatiompo explained all thr pertinent informa­tion to Strong Hall residents. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high tem ratures 

The AccuWeather" forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 20. 

Friday ~ 41 24, Saturday (f 41 31 
40;
Sunday ~ 54 Mond9-y ~. 54 39 

----... ..........
5 ~ 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pre••ure:
Tuesday ~ 52 39' ® Cb) D . IT::J . l32J D 

,, '--Hig~h__Lo_w__S_h_ow_e_rs_R_a1n__T-_s1o_rm_•_Fl_urr_l•_•_S_no_w__1_e•__sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via AssociatBd Press 
Albany 50 32 Las Vegas 44 16 Phoenix 78 49 Atlanta 66 46 Los Angeles 76 52 San Diego 74 50
8,Q,~pc@Q i) ~ u 

Boston 58 42 Louisville 47 30 Tampa 83 65 Showers T-storms Rain Flumes Snow tee Sunny Pt. Cloud} Clovdy 
Dallas 59 41 Miami 84 72 Tucson 77 44 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNe/ 

Houston 67 47 New Orleans · 75 54 Tulsa 54 35 

Friday, November 20, 1998 -~__ ______The Ohserver • CAMPUS NEWS _____ _____ _____ page 3 
Jackie Bird performs Dakota tribal, folk music 
By LAURA ROMPF versn. I gave it lo my sister and askod .Jackie gave her sister the rite to hoop Nt•w" Writl'r if I could borrow it for this pPrfor­dance," Brandon said. "This showed mance.'' how important the passing on of tradi­.lackit\ Bird, a folk singm· from lhe Thosn who attended the show said tion is. It signified that even though 
Dakota Indian Tribn, pt•rformnd Hird has an impact lhrough her mes­Sherry (Bird's sister) was not old Th11rsday in thn LaFnrtmw Ballroom sage. enough, she was given the privilege as part of Naliv11 American Ilcritagc through tradition." 
Wilek. This was Bird's second visit to Bird. who specializes in blues. Notrr Dame. 
guitar music and hoop dancing, 'HER ACT IS VERY HUMOROUS. IT'S "Last year, when I was invited inciL1cl1\d a varinty of material in her GOT THAT INDIAN HUMOR TO IT.' to sing here, I was on cloud 1wrforrnan('n. nimi," Bird said. "I am so excit­
".la<:kie plays cont11mporary ed to be back." Indian music with guitar," said T!IMEIU MiY!ISATU Since visiting Notre Dame last Tanwrn Miyasato. a sophomon• at 
Nof'llL IJA.\1H SOf'i/OMOR/: year, Bird has been quite husy.NotrP Danw and a nwmbnr of' thn "I actually got lo do some SantPc Flil.nclrnau Sioux tribe in recording," she said. "I gnt to South llakota. "IIPr act is vnry l111rnor­".lnckiP tulknd about thr nPxl outfit belp on the sequel to Sacred Spirits ous. It's got that l11clia11 humor to it." she is making for herself," said Sara by Virgin Records.... I foci I'm really Bini's sister was also prnsnnt and Brandon, a graduat.n of Notre Dame gotling my foot in the door.'' p1\rl'Dr1111\d a iraditional tribal danrn. who rnturnPcl for tlrn show. "The main All this work, Bird said, dot·s take Thn two werP drnssPd in Indian color or t.he outfit is red which symbol­its toll. appart\l that c111Tinrl spncial moaning izns new beginnings. .Jackie said that "The more busy I am, the more to t.hn wm111•11. shn foels tlw lll'W year gives a chance tired I !'eel, but this increases the wr­"TIH! jar.kPI. I am w1•aring is in honor for a new bPginning." re nt through my hody," she said. of my sislnr." Bird said. "It foalurns a Brandon also noted tlm importance "This is good because the elderf say dc<•r or dk w!HJS<' antlers arc said to or tradition in the show. that this helps to make my spirit rncPiw lmautif'ul tonPs l'rom thP uni-"During nnr) point of' thP show, strongrr." Jackie Bird, a Dakota Indian folk singer, performed Thursday as part of Native American Heritage Week. 
Our VOLUNTEER PROGR 

lfamilics in New York City orth •Use your s1dl1 
•Community liv. 
•Housing, h 

0 Certificate good towards any Manicure & Pedicure Not va/idji,r rns/J, ca111w1 he used.for l'l'luil. Must present certificate tlJ receive disco1111t ( certain restrictions apply). 

1357 N. Ironwood Dr.• (corner of Ironwood & Edis 



Attention Students 
We're concerned about your safety and well being at this weekend's game against the LSU Tigers. Please help us and the stadium staff keep the student section safe, fun and focused on the game and the halftime show by your fellow students in the band by: 
• 
entering at gate E (the northwest corner of the stadium) earlier than usual so as to be in the stands ready to cheer for the team at the opening kickoff...(for this game, all students must enter through Gate E). 

• 
not bringing any inappropriate objects or alcoholic beverages into the stadium ... please be aware that ushers will deny you admission if you attempt to bring such objects into the stadium. 

• 
not throwing any items in the stadium at any time. 



Thanks for your cooperation ... GO IRISH!!! 
Notre Dame Security/Police 
Campus Security Building Notre Dame, IN 46556 219-631-5555 Emergency...dial 911 


Friday, November 20, 1998
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS 



FOR THE 
H ELESS~ 
Eric Williams (L), Walt Greening (below) and Dayle Stidham (below right) live at the Center. 
Photos by The Observer/Jeff Hsu 



Students 
continued from page I 
dents at the Center by talking to them as they struggle with detoxifi­cation and job training. 
"Student volunteers discuss cam­pus ·events with the interested resi­dents," he said. "This enables the residents to stay in touch with the world that extends beyond the Center so they feel less isolated and dependent." 
Several other dorms on campus, including Pasquerilla East, adopt the Center for service activities. 
"Women from P.E. make sack lunches for residents so that thev can eat while they are at work," said Lori Friedman, Pasqueri_lla East ser­vice commissioner. 
Volunteers from Dillon Hall help to prepare and serve meals at the cen­ter, said Ben Kutyoo, Dillon's service commissioner. Kutyoo expressed gratitude for his volunteer experi­ences at the Center. 
"Student volunteers share valu­able experiences with the resi­dents," he said. "Students show the residents that they care about them and that they learn from their inter­actions with people who live extremely different lives. It is impor­tant for volunteers to go into the Center and get involved right away." 
The Center for Social Concerns facilitates campus service organiza­tions that work with the Center for the Homeless, such as Food Share and the Children's Group, and pro­vides vans to transport volunteers to and from the site. 
Julia Dayton, president of Food Share, coordinates a service project where students bring left over food from the dining halls to the Center to feed the homeless every night. Dayton said that this is a worthwhile organization. 

"From an environmental point of view, food does not go to waste and from a social point of view, students feed the hungry while they work with the homeless," she said. 
The Children's Group student club brings Notre Dame volunteers to the Center every Sunday so that they can take the child residents on daily excursions into town that allow them the opportunity to enjoy expe­riences that would not otherwise be possible, such as trips to the movies. 
"Volunteers help bridge the gap between current and past residents from the center so that people have a motivation to aim higher," said Friedman, president of the 
.Children's Group. 

"The most special part of the pro­gram is that residents of the mission help students bring food in and talk to them so students receive perspec­tive on their O½TI lives as they help residents regain independence in their own lives," Dayton said. 

Center 
continued from page I 
square foot building, which it now leases to the Center for $1 a year. The University also sup­plies the Center with volun­teers, food supplies and jobs for some guests. The Center, in turn, provides internships and other programs for students to address homelessness prob­lems. 
The Center, with its three­fold mission statement and assortment of programs, strives to be unique from other home­less shelters by olTering more than shelter and a few warm meals a day. The Center's pro­gram for helping people bark to their feet is called the Continuum of Care and follows guests from thPir first night in the Center to their sixth month of home ownership. 
The Bravo program, which graduated Screes and a group of his peers last Friday, is phase III of the continuum. It is a five-week program that pro­vides job training and place­ment for the guests in a wide variety of positions, including some at Notre Dame. · 
The continuum also includes a drug and alcohol abuse treat­ment program, in which Screes partidpated after his arrival at the Center in July. 
"It's an excellent treatment program," Screes said. "Alcoholism is a symptom. I had to figure out why I was drinking. I had to look at myself. You have to deal with life as it goes on. For me, it was very beneficial. I wouldn't be here talking to you today if it wasn't for [the program.]" 
The Center is divided into a seven dormitories, where lhe guests sleep, in addition to its classrooms, social areas and on-site medical clinic. There is a dorm for single women, a dorm for families and five dorms for single men. 
Although the dorms hold enough beds for 80 men, 22 women and 15 families, it's not enough, Screes said. 
"They estimate they turn away 15-20 families a month," he said. "That's tough, you know." 
Volunteers are an essential part of the Ccmter's existence. Volunteers staff many facets of tho Center, from working with tlrn children's day care or Montessori to helping plan the non-denominational religious services in the Center's chapel. Screes estimates that the Center has about 450 volun­teers, many of them from the Notre Dame community. 
"We have a lot of students come over here and volun­teer," Screes said. "A lot. of the guests here have been through hell or they're really down. The bc~t tl,;ing a volunteer can do is smile. 
Screes emphasizes the importance of smiling because he has watched many guests enter the Center's lobby. He knows about the burdens they carry in the front door. 
"/\. lot of people come run­ning from a problem," he said. "A lot of' people come in with nothing. I've seen a lot of peo­ple come in hem with just the clothes on their back." 
Although Screes admitted that entering the Center was a traumatic experience, he feels that his own positive attitude has helped him get back on his foet. 
"I gotta say I have a great attitude about this," he said. "Just because I'm homeless doesn't mean I'm not a person. I know in my past ... I've crashed and burned. I need to make a change." 
For Screes, the Center is the place to make that change. 

Bubble 
continued from page 1 
Those involved did their part to make the four days as mis­erable as possible. The room's temperature was turned up, people played "really [bad] CD's," and Gocke's computer was repeatedly unplugged while he was typing papers. 
This harassment was not the low point of the experipnce, however. 
"Sleeping is definitely the wurst part," Gocke said. "This floor is hard." 
Gocke's longest stretch in the bubble was 20.5 hours, from 11:30 a.m. Monday until his classes began Tuesday morning. 
Many onlookers flocked to his room on the third floor of Keough during the week to sec the bubble or taunt him. Unfortunately, the attention cut back on his study time. 
"You'd think that I'd get more done," Gocke said, esti­mating that he spent a total of 75 hours in confinement. 
Baldea concurred that his roommate's studies were affected this week too. 
"There"s a lot of visitors, but it's a lot worse f'or the Bubble Boy," he said. 'Tm not going to complain." 
Gocke stressed that the situ­ation was not intended to gain as much publicity as it did. 
"This was not an attention grabber, this was a bet," he said. 
But his friends are now pon­dering his sanity. 
"I thought he was relatively normal," Schneider said. "But now I'm not so sure." 


Security 
continued from page 1 
Dame Avenue. 
"We use them to bring in peo­plP who m~ed to he talkPd to in a disciplinary fashion," Rakow said. 
Security continues to review tapes from the Baylor game to identify persons involved in putting various objects into orbit. 
"I don't expect problems," said Kirk. 'Tm hopeful -maybe too hopeful." 
Both Kirk and student body president Peter Cesaro are con­fident that _the problem will abate itself as a result of a stu­dent initiative. 
"There are a lot of people that don't like being hit with dead animals," said Cesaro. 

His office has been inundated with calls from various groups and individuals who expressed disappointment in the half-time trend and wanted something to be done to stop it. 
"fl hope people will] focus on watching the passes thrown on the field, not on what's being thrown in the stands," Cesaro said. 
But for those who manage to eludC\ both the student initiative and the increased entrance security, several possible pun­ishments have been discussed in the past couple of weeks. These include removal from the game, forfeiture of future student tick­et options, loss of alumni ticket privileges and the relocation of the student section to less desir­able locations in the stadium. 
"I hope that's nol something that will have to happen," said Kirk, "but it is a polfmtial solu­tion." 
While some studimts mav feel that thn half-time hurling· inci­dents are not a big dnal and that th<' issue has been blown out of proportion, Gagnon summed up the bottom line: "People can be hurt and tlw Univcrsitv is sub­jnct to liability." · 
In addition to the 1()-year-old girl who suffered facial lacera­tions resulting from the l1ying frog, U1rce fans sought trnal­nwnl al the lirst aid stand in the stadium with injuries such as a dNached rlltina and a split lip. Other fans were reported lo have sustained turned ankles and splinters in their efforts to avoid the marine life and spiked marshmallows. 
"None of us want to curb stu­dent enthusiasm," said Gagnon. "llloweverJ, we're all inconve­nienced because of the actions ol"afow." 
--~ ---· 

,.tT 
,. ,_,., .-•:•···
.:·······,t:'/;.
··-i•·.·········,1·-····•:·----_·.i._/_<:.·.•..i,c.f 
--._,,,~~r.•.·. ·. ·-._. f :• "<'Y•i,;~~);[1­

Friday, November 20, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 


¦ WORI D NFWS BRIEFS Film director Alan Pakula dies 
NFW YOHK 

/\Ian l'akt1la, who dir1·1·L1·d !lw films "KlutP" and "/\II Tlw l'rPsicknl's MPn," dit'd Thursday in a 1·ar au·idtinl. llti was 70. l'akula was driving 1111 tlw Long Island l·:.xpn•ssway wlH•n a nwtal pipP lying on Urn road was kil'kl'd up hy anolhnr car and naslwd t.liro11gh his windshield, striking him iu llw lwnd, sairl Of1irf'r Santo l)iStnf'ano, 11 Suffolk County PolirP spokPsrnan. l'akula lost rontrol of hb I')<)5 Volvo, vocred off tlw rnad ahot1t :~!i 111ihis 1•ast. of NPw York City, and 1-raslwd int.11 a fpnct• at 11: 15 a.111., tlrn of'fil'Pr said. IIP was takP11 to North Shorn llnspi1al in l'lainvi!'\V, whnrl' lw was pro­JJ11u11cc>d dPad, DiStcf'ano said. 
Septuplets celebrate birthday 
DES MOINES 

Tlw l\kCauglu•y st•ptup!Pls pilnd into th('ir big whill' van on Thursday and headt\cl for 1111' hospila I wlu•n• they made history to cnlP­hrntl' thPir first birthday with doctors and nursf's. "Summarizl' tlH• last y1iar'!" clad KP1111y MrCaugliny asked. "Tlwrn's many words -lc>arni11g, ,~xriling, trying, just all around wonc!Prl"ul." With tlrn lrnnpt\raturn l10vnri11g around 40 d(•gr(\ns, thn babins wnrn huncllt•d -girls in pink and boys in brown ­for llll' short walk from tlw van into Iowa Ml'llwdist Mt•dirnl Ccntnr.Tlw Mccaughey brood \Will tn a hospital stalT mnnt.ing to sur­prisl' lhosP who rarl'd l'or the septuplets. Tlrny ran out of r.akn," said Chad Hohif's, a hospital spokiisman. Many of the mndical staff in on the odds-defying births Nov. 19, 
tlJ<JJ, hadn't SPl'll tlH' SPptuplcts in six or s1Wl'll months. 
'60 Minutes' will air Kevorkian death tape 
NEW YOHK 

C:IIS's "hO Minutns" said it would air a viclt•otapP Sunday of a tnrmi11ally ill patient dying af'tN !wing administnrnd a ldhal doso of drugs by llr. .lal'k K1•vorkian. Kevorkian, tlw Michigan dot·lor who has acknowleclgecl linlpi11g about 120 1wopln commit suicide, tPlls Miki' WallacP il is tlw first linrn Im is allmitting to killing a paliPnt hims,M. l\o said hP wants 11ulhorities lo prosecute him for t\Ulhanasia. Tlw doctor brought tlrn vidno­tapn to "<,() Minutes" less than two weeks ago, rwlwork spoknsman Knvin Tndnsco said. "W(•rn just Idling Dr. Kovorkian tell his stnry," hn said. "lln wants to use tlrn vidPotapf' lo t(dl it and that's an integral part of it. I rPally don't. think thorn's a 1wws orga­11izalio11 in this rnuntry that would pass up this slory.''Tlll' patinnt and his family am i11t(•rvi1•wnd on llw vidootap11. It is b1iing sh11w11 with lht>ir p(irmission, Im said. 

S&I' 500: Composite 1152.61 Volume: 
+8. l .~ 844,074,010

9,056.05 
VOLUME LEADERS 

, !Hid£4t:fl 11nsn.1 'b1 fllA~iit. I fo~lbl 11lilf£ 
Nt 1,cArf_ n ,,t\.1  S\fl'  ·6.85  -Z.0875  J0,5625  
,\\11 Kl )NJ.I\:! INHJ <:OUI' 11111 Lll!>tl'UltH  ,\(.)l_ INT<" flfU.  .(j 45 • 2.7:i ·I 27  .IU7SO ..,U)UOO ,IJ,KlZl  K.I .\75 112.K)S h.l06Z.I  
v1t I Wtl!H IH ( 1"1 { t)M('ORI' 1 l''\f ll ~V\ll\1\ llA~KA llll\.,\1 HI  W(llM c·t)!\.!'i,('\{ u jl.\~11;,\'  +t1.4-I •Z.11 +OMI .JtJ 'i I  -1-,i.:'1!12~ -..o Ml2~ +0.4.i75 -I.~ I 12  ~H.~7S \1J.l75 7:1.112.1 2 .. H t7S  
\(IC fh)\lWI I Oki' , P\11'A() <.OMl'l!I I U  M\11 ( fill  d 112 -1 2)  -t.2.IJlNJO .U,H15  111.75 tPrns  




Starr opens impeachment hearings 
Assocrt\nm P1rnss 

WASlllNGTON 
In a blend or constitutional drama and par­lisan struggle, Kenneth Starr laid out his evi­dence against President Clinton on Thursday in thn Lhircl prnsiclcntial impeachment inquiry in U.S. history. llrn11 fended off a withering attack by Democrats. 
The indep1md1mt counsel, in an appearance bcforn tlrn Ilousl\ .Judiciary Committee that was televised nationally, also said the '"plain language" ol' the Constitution makes clear that Clinton could be prosecuted f'or perjury after he le.Lves office, regardless of the outcome of the impnachmPnt proceedings. 
"I stand behind it because il is mine," Starr said as he was peppered with crilicism of his report outlining grounds for possible impcachmont arising from Clinton's sexual relationship with Monica Lewinsky. 
Starr's op,ming slatmnent accused Clinton or a months-long "sclwme to conceal" his affair with thn former White llouse intern. 
Even before Starr began to speak, Hep. John Conyers, D-Mich., accused the former federal judgn or having "crossed the line into obsession" with his f'our-year, $40 million investigation. 
;\ second Democrat, Barney Frank of 
Massachusetts, asked why Starr had not told 
the public before tlrn !'all elections that he had foundno evidence of impeachable offenses in inquiries into other areas covering FBI filns, 

the dismissal of White House Travel Office 
employees and the Whitewater real estate deal in Arkansas. 
When Starr responded that his mandatn undor the law was only to report on evidence of pot(rntially impeachable offenses, Frank said: "In other words, don't have anything to say unless you have something bad to say." 

Clinton was in Asia beginning a live-day visit election setbacks. Thus, it was not gestions of prosncutorial miscon­when Starr stood before the committee's clear whether -or when -arti­duct, although at several points chairman, Hep. Henry llyde, raised his right cles of impeachment would ever he told his questionnrs they might hand and swore the traditional witness' oath emerge from the panel. well have a differnnl view or the to tell the truth. Al the same time, llyde law. 
A batlt~ry or the president's lawynrs -pri­announced to the displeasure of "Obviously this body is at lib11rty vate attorney David K1rndall and White House Democrats that the committee to reject" the matorial as not counsel Charles Huff among tlrnm -were also would vote on issuing subponnas being "substantial, credible evi­prnsnnt in the committ1m room, awaiting their to additional witnesses. Among dence" of impeachable offnnses, turn to question Starr. them was Robert Bennett, the he said. 
Behind panel nrnmbers were two big por­lawyer who reprnsented Clinton lie said the prnsidnnl was at tlw traits -one or llyde, the Illinois Republican at in Paula Jones' sexual harass­heart of a "pattern of obstruction" the lrnlm of the current inquiry; llrn other of mnnt case. that was inconsistent with his former ltep. Pet1ff Hodino, the Democrat who Peppered with questions about duty. oversaw the Watergate impPachment proceed­alleged inappropriate treatment Starr, himsnll' the target of' ings against Hichard Nixon in the same room of Ms. Lewinsky, grand jury leaks, ceaseless attacks from Clinton's in I974. his own private law clients and defenders, spoke calmly and 
Starr's testimony was the lirst the committee other matters, Starr had made methodically -but unambiguous­had taken since rnceiving boxes of' his evi­only one concession as the hear­ly -as he offnred his first public d1mce this fall. Whiln the full GOP-controlled ing moved into the evening. Ile accounting of' his invnstigation !louse has voted for an opnn-ended inquiry, agreed to provide a list of clinnts into tlrn presidnnt's rnlationship Hepublican appetite for prolonged proceedings from his former law firm. with Ms. Lnwinsky and several has diminished markedly in the wake of lie stoutly turned aside all sug-ollrnr malt.crs. 

¦ MEXICO 






Active volcano likely to erupt 
AssOCIATELJ PRESS 
YERBA BUUNA 
Army troops guarded an aban­doned village on the slopes or Mexico's most active volcano Thursday while rockslides rumbled by. 
Soldiers said they spent n. nervous night listening to boulders tumble off the 12,533-foot peak of the smoking Coliinn Volcano, which geologists say could erupt at any time. 
"You could hear it last night, a booming sound as rocks tumbled down tlrn slope,·· Capt. Audtilio Ramos said as he stood watch over the evacuated hamlet of Yerba 81Hma, :3 miles from the 1!r1\tt~r·s whitr plume of gas and water vapor. 

Geologists say there is also a 1 in 3 chance that pent-up Java could blow away the. blq.ckcd passages of the cone in a massive explosion, possibly rivaling a 1913 eruption that showered ash and blew out win­dows far from the peak. 
"The volcano's activity continues to rise ... which means that the pos­sibilities of an eruption continue to Increase." a committee of volcano experts and civil defense officials said in a joint statement releasPd In the city of Colima, about 15 miles f'r01n the peak. 
Geologists don't like to talk much about the other possibility -a mas­sive explosion -but civil defense coordinator Melchior Urrutia said the Colima state government is pre• parnd to evacuate as many poople as necessary. 
"It's better to sin by being overcau­tious than to pick up bodies," Urrutia said. 
Officials just hope tlrn poak, also known as the ''Volcano of Fire," will give warning frnough for them to evacuate the towns nearest the base. 
Soldiers temfod to farm animals left behind by Verba Buena's 140 residents when they were evacuated Wednesday. Plastic banners for an interrupted town festival still hung limply in the air. 
The hamlet is built on a 25-foot thkk lay(ir of debris from ancifmt eruptions, which residents say makes t.he soil rklrnr. 
Friday, November 20, 1998
page 6 

Scholars to square 
off on TV 
Special to The Observer 
Two chaired professors at Notre Dame are the guests on this week's "Firing Linc" pro­gram hosted by William Ruckley, Jr. 
The program will be aired locally at 10:30 a.m. Sunday on WNIT-TV, C:hannel 34. 
Father Richard McBrien, Crowley-O'Brien-\\'altcr pro­fessor of theology, and Halph Mcinerny, Grace professor of medieval studies and director of the Jacques Maritain Center, are the participants in a debate on issues in Catholicism since the Second Vatican Council. 
Both McBrien and Mcinerny are prolific authors. McBrien's books include "Catholicism," a widely used reference on the 
Catholic faith; "The I larperCollins Encyclopedia of Catholicism," of which he was the general editor. He is a for­mer chair of Notre Dame's the­ology department. 
Mcinerny is known both as a leading Thornist with more than a dozen philosophical works to his credit and as a popular novelist whose work includes the Father Dowling and Andrew Broom mysteries. His most recent books include "The Lack of the Irish" and "What Went Wrong with Vatican II." 
Got news? Call 1-5323 

onsistAntly, is that the_ hQ,,chqose to;.;be poor/'---_.  
l)ers bfthe panel. which also gij ~:t~d. epop,9µ,.ics ptofessoi-s,they must battle mi~concep­t people and· ethics in their  
.--­Her .biggest QJl · rn~. re at the poor ar~tt9 be blitn(ld for their_ prob- ent~fi~p waihPtu;tof_tht1..ongoing ex . _µ,9,n into human tights sponsoredti¥ Hurnwi Rights Collaborative Leadership :tii!'e~rri __ -T);<Ins:pi,r~g by tl~e United ~Natio 50th Declaration on Human Rights.  

Onward to Victory 
Meet Author 
Murray Sperber 
PUBLISHED BY HENRY HOLT & COMPANY 

FRIDAY • NOVEMBER 20 • 8:00 P.M. Meet Murray Sperber, author of Shake Down the Thunder far· a booksignin~ on his latest book, Onward to Victory: Tfie Crises That Shaped Coflege Sports tonight at Borders. Rick Telander (Chicago Sun-Times & ESPN Maga­zine) says--"I love Murray Sperber. He looks at big-time college sports, sees the myth-making, the fabrication, the wild-eyed emotion that 1s 
churned out, and he tells us why these things happen. Don't mess with Sperber--his research is 1mrosin5;, his insights dead on, his logic im­peccable. He is nothing less than the conscience for a vast entertainment industry which seems to have been born without one.' 


MISHAWAKA, IN DIANA• 4230 GRAPE RD• ON THE 
NORTHEAST CORNER OF GRAPE AND DAY ROAD• ACCROSS FROM DON PABLOS • (21 9) 27 1 ·9930 
PROJECT 

Give away your coat.. and SHARE TIIE WARM'IH.
WARMTH 
CENTI:11 FOIi SOCIAL CONCERNS 


Mi r 1i rrtrrmtrt r ::r tr ::r:t&tl 11 :! r t"': 11 ; r· :m zrm : r: nnn 
Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help you, once aga111, share the Notre Dame warmth and spmt 
When you mrn in your coat or ;acket October 26, 1998 through December 4, 1998 at the Center for Social Concerns, the Hammes Bookstore or ocher promi­nently displayed locations around campus, PROJECT WARMTH® and The University of Notre Dame will donare ic ro someone who can really use it this w111ter. In return, you will receive a certificate good for 25% off a new GEAR for .Spom® jacket at the Hammes Book,tore. 
SHARE THE WARl,1TH .AND THE SPIRIT OF NOTRE DAME! 
co1.ut,TION .~in'P.S..' c,nztm·jf.;,· Soci.t.ll Concerns • l!amm,?s Rookstm·e • Student Government •SI. Michtlel's IAto1dry ~ l..-f,,in ""d C'umpus Distnhutro,, Center • Lahmww hy,,rmalio11 Desk • Alumni A.tioc1alio11 -423 Gmce Hall • .1Ll Resul,wce !111/l.1 • 204 c:011,1 • 2.57 Fitz:J>atru:k Flt1/I • 100 Hond Hall• 103 !,aw Scbwl • 
I.F O' Shug • 2112 flurk,y 
GEAR 
w 

Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
The  
Instead of buying a squid for halftime,why don't you use your money to help Hurricane Miteh Survivors? Please bring your donations of toiletries, medical supplies, or a $2 donation to the Student Government Table under the flagpole in the middle of South Quad. Anyone who donates one of these items is e1igible to participate in a contest to guess the runount of candy in a jar. Those who come closest will be eligible to win: Clothing ·and other prizes from Adidas Sponsored by Notre Dame Student Government: "Putting Students First"  
Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group For time and location of n1eeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S ..C. All Meetings are private and confidential.  

Campus 
in Circle 

6 ep Rally 
-Gate 1O 
7: ebraska 
''Field 

Concert 
Bond Hall 
Beat LSU 
Go Irish! 
lica Mass 
utes after 
vs. Duke 
e Center 
Ba 
ilica Mass 
The Observer/ Joe Mueller 


Friday, November 20, 1998
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
page 8 



#11 Women's
#4 Wo01en's
#6HOCKEY 



Basketball
Fri., Nov. 20th 

Soccer 

Sat., Nov.21st
NCAA
vs. Western Michigan Championship 

vs. #4 Duke 
7:00 p.m. 


Second Round 

7:30 p.m. First 1000 fans in gate 10 receive 
Fri., Nov. 20th 7 :30pm 
a FREE Notre Dame Basketball schedule magnet 

vs. #13 Nebraska 
Alumni Field 


First 100 students with I.D. 
.~~ .Win great adidas get in FREE! 

aa1aas merchandise!! 



Execs discuss helping community 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
for Rose I\Ieissner, president of the Community Foundation of St. Joseph County, it took time to learn that bringing her business skills to a realm outside the cor­porate world would bring her fulfillment. 
She has found that fulfillment in her work for nonprofit organi­zations and through community involvement 
"Now I cau work for the 
Community Foundation, put all 
my energy into it and feel like T 
have the privilege of making a 
difference," said Meissner. 
Tbrec other women shared 
experiences similar to Meissner's 
in a panel discussion moderated 
by Saint Mary's 1998-99 execu­
tive-in-residence Ernestine 
Radin, chairman emeritus of 
First Source Corporation. The 
discussion focused on combining 
business skills and outside tal­
ents with the desire to make 
communities stronger. 
For Gladys Muhamed, execu­
tive director of the Charles 
Martin Youth Center, involve­
ment in community service 
hogan when she was a teenager. 
She later became the first 
DO SOMETHING 



DIFFERENT 


taJ.-ti 
C I( HT I!. #I' -G 111 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
Summer Service Projects 1999 
* 8 weeks of service learning * $1 700 tuition scholarship 
*Valuable alumni contacts 
* 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 

* 
Over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 



i
,. 
•Information meetings: 

• 
Thursday: Nov. 19th 6:30 PM 
Monday: Nov. 23 6:30 PM 
Tuesday: DEC. 1 7:00 PM 
African-American female direc­tor of a shelter for battered women in the U.S, 
"This is a different kind of business," said Muhamed. "It may not be a lC1t of economics, but it is working to make change in our community." 
Muhamed also emphasized the importance of being a part of decision making as a reason to be involved in the community. 
"U is important for women to 
be at the table of power," she 
said. "It is important for me to be 
where decisions are made." 
Recognizing the impact deci­
sions have on others is also key, 
said Maritza Robles, bilingual 
education director of the South 
Bend Community School 
Corporation. 
Robles emphasized the respon­
sibility that comes with a <leci­
sion-making position. 
"When you to work, it doesn't 
matter where you are sitting. If 
you are a supervisor or an exec­
utive, always make sure the 
decisions you make are fair,"said 
Robles. "When I reprimand or 
promote, I try to !Je fair. I ask 
you if you are ever in that posi­
tion to take your responsibility 
very seriously." 
Robl0,s encouraged those in the audience to go back to their communities and make them better places. 
"It's our responsibility to make this a better planet for all," said Robles. "It's not my planet or your planet. but the planet of many who have not been born vet." · Kathleen Sparks. owni>r of 10 McDonald's restaurants and the Ronald McDonald House state president, encouraged people in the audience to become involved in a company that shares their goals. 
For Sparks. being a part of 
\1c0onald's, whir.h she said 
emphasizes community involve­
ment, has helped her to fulfill 
her interest in business and her 
desire to give back to the com­
munity. 
"I believe God blesses those 
who turn around to bless oth­
ers," said Sparks. "I have 
received more in doing than I 
have even giwm." 
Other panelists also spoke of 
this kind offulfillment. 
"If you have the heart, respon­sibility and desire to help, you will !ind yourself like all of us . with an internal happiness that keeps you going everyday," said 
Hobh~s. 

1999-2000 RESIDENT ASSISTANT APPLICATIONS 
~nilll IID~ m~mnilmW>Il~ Il]]) u:Thl~ @mm~~ @ir ~11uucfil@mi11 Amtmnrr~ i@i IB11ID1rll@1 IBIDnllcfilnmi~ Th)@~n]]lminmi~ IMI®mcfilmJS) N®W@]]]}IID@rr iJS) ll~~~ tlfurr®Dll~Thl IFrrncfilmJS) JJmID1IDfilirf ll§S) Jl~~~ 

UPPER DECK 
OVERLOOKING THE PLAYING FIELD AT COVELESK1 STADIUM 
Co01plete BanquetFacilities Year Round 
Plus OUtdoor ~ & c.-estog Fer Up To 2.,500 
Customized Catering to accomodate any occasion including Dances and Notre Dame Tailgate Parties 
STATE OF THE ART 
AUDIO & VIDEO 



- 
7  
Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 9  I I  
I  
¦ ISRAEL  
Government approves withdrawal from West Bank  

A<sociatcd Press port of key allies. Thursday is being transferred morning, Israeli and Palestinian stage of the peace accord under 
.JENIN, West Bank 

/\f't.nr mmrly two years ol' U.S. prodding and hiller disputes with tlw Palestinians, the lsrnnli gov,irnnwnt gnvn tlw final go• 
a h o a d Thursdav to 
withdrawing 
troops from a chunk of tlw Wnsl Bank 
thn  size  of  
Chicago.  
T  h  o  



CabitH•l 11,u--Netanyahu r o w l y approv1\d llu; decision, 7·5, with thrrn• ahstm1tions. aflPr acrimo· nious ddiat!'. IL murk,·d ,l poi11t of no rtilllrn for l'rimn Ministnr lknjamin Nntanyuhu. who sincu taking offo:I' in May 1')')6 had zigzaggt•d 011 tlw pt•uc<! pn1t'.t1ss and 110w fares the loss ol' sup· 
In anticipation of' winning full from sole Israeli control to joint or partial control of an addition­jurisdiction. In addition, 7.1 al 9.1 percent of the West Bank, percent, or 160 square miles, of the Palestinian Authority staged tho land in the deal moves from a jubilant pRrade Thursday to joint jurisdiction to sole mark the 10th anniversary of Palestinian control. tlrn l'alnsline Liberation Tlw Palestinians already have. Orgnnization's clcclarnfion of full control of 3 percent of the independence. The parade took WesL Bank and joint jurisdiction place in tho farming town of over another 24 percent. Jenin in the northern West Unlike earlier pullbacks, this Bank. near most of th,i land that one held little promise of is to be handod over. rirama. 
llundrnds of Palestinian police No army bases are being dis· officers in camouflage uniforms, mantlnd and all Israeli and their AK•47 assault rifles hoist• Palestinian security forces have cd, marched in formation to do is move yellow·and·black through Urn town's soccer stadi· road markors the size of wash· um to Lhc cheers of tho crowd. ing machinus to road junctions Tractors dra1wd with to dtHnarciLle the new dividing Pal,•stinian !'lags circlfld the linns. arena. On Thurs(lay night, tlrn 
Two µorcnnt, or 44 square cem<mt blocks were slill lined milm;. of' llm West Bank land in up al Lhe Israeli army base of the agreement approved Dota.n, south of Jnnin. On f-riday oflicers were to meet to linalize which Israel is to hand over 13 the transfer with a handshake. percent of the West Bank in followed by an evacuation of three stages by the nnd of Israeli troops January, in expected to be exchange l'or a completed in a Palestinian


'WEMOVED HERE FOR
few hours. crackdown on 
PEACE AND QUIET, 
To Jewish Islamic mili· settlers in the BUT IF WE DON'T FEEL SAFE, tants. 
0 11 y
area, th0 pull• WE ARE W'""'TIN{~ OUR TIME.' 
back meant ~ ~ Netanyahu and new anxiety, six o!' his rninis­and somfl were 
l\1uu DEUTSCH ters backed 
toying with the stage one, with
R
idea of return• liS!DHNT OF SliT/'l,EMRNT five voting 

ing to Israel. 

"We moved here for peace and quiet, but if we don•t feel safe, we am wast• ing our time." .said Miri Deutsch. 47, a housewife in lhc Ganim scttlr.ment of 51 families which -after the pullback will bll surrounded on thre,~ sides by Palestinian·controlled areas. 
In Qabatieh, a town of 17.000 Palestinians just south of Jenin, most residents were indifferent to the prospect or coming under full Palestinian rule. No Arafat posters or Palestinian !lags doc• oratnd the streets. 
"The Palestinian Authority does cnmmit certain violations, hut it's still hotter than the occupying power (Israel)," said Ibrahim Zidan, a 36-year·old farmer. 
Israel's 17-member Cabinet just barely approved the first 
against, threo 
abstaining and t.wo abroad. Surprisingly, Trade Minister Natan Sharansky, who helµed rrngotiato tht, acc\Jrd at Wye Plantation in Maryland last month, abstained Thursday, saying he felt the Palestinians had not lived up to all t.lrnir commitments. 
The beginning of the with­drawal was e,qrnctud to give new impetus to government hard•liners to try to topple Netanyahu. "Early elections are in thn air," said Emanuol Hosen. a political commentator on Israel TV's Chann11l Two. 
With a one-vote majority in parliament and hard•liners moving against him. Netanyahu could lose a no•confidencc motion in Israel's parliament when he submits his budget in December. 
wrecked 
by Christina Gorman 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, November 18 Thursday, November 19 Friday, November 20 Saturday, November 21 Sunday, November 22 
7:30 
p.m. 

7:30 
p.m. 

7:30 
p.m. 

7:30 
p.m. 


2:30 p.m. 
Playing atWashington Hall 
Reserved Seats -$9 Senior Citizens -$8 All Students -$6 
Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
November 19th 10-7 • 20th 9-8 • 21st 8-1 :30 
Save up to 75% 
on many name brands! 

3 DAYS 
ONLY 
AT THE LOGAN CENTER 
Name Brand Clothing.......................SuRgge~t1ed .............. . 
eta, 
Tommy Rugby Shirts........................... $92.00 .................. . Nautica Crew Sweatshirts ................... $49.95 ................. .. Polo Sport T-Shirts .............................. $29.95 ................. .. Reebok Ladies T-Shirts ....................... $14.95 .................. .. 
Plus many other items to choose from 

Blowout Price 

SAVE 
$29.95 

UPTO 
$29.95 
60% 
$9.95 
On selected 
Notre Dame apparel$4.95 
1235 N. Eddy St.• South Bend• 289-4831 • Portions of the proceeds to benefit the Logan Center. 
page 10 The Observer• NEWS Friday, November 20, 1998 
¦ IRAn 


Court rejects admission policy 
Associated Press daughter heard about the deci­McLaughlin, had argued that sion, "she had a big smile on the school's admissions system BOSTON her face. There was a happi­-administered by Boston's A federal appeals court ruled ness about getting what she school board, the School Thursday that the race-based achieved all along." Committee -was an illegal admissions policy at the presti­Boston Latin is a public quota masked by "high-minded gious Boston Latin School is school, but a highly selective and amorphous terms" of
Associated Press Agency said more 

unconstitutional. one. Its students have included diversity and fairness.
U.N. teams 

A three-judge panel of the 1st Ralph Waldo Emerson, Cotton Half the school's students arc
BAGHDAD Thnr!:lday. Tw 

U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Mather and Bon Franklin. sclecterl solely on entrance
U.N. arms inspe¢tors a.nd nuclear sites, on 

ordered Boston Lalin to imme­Schools Superintendent exam scores and grades.
their Iraqi escortsStayed.out site, a biologic · 

diately admit 15-year-old Sarah Thomas Payzant said he was Admissions for the remaining
of the spotlighLTll).itsday, a l'llllitary ho · 

Wessmann. a white student disappointed with the decision. half' are weighted by race. For
their second day · 9nitor­of team 

who complained that she was "We're every bit as commit­example, if 15 percent of the
ing since Iraq's 
sites 

illegally denied admission in ted to diversity today as we remaining applicants are black,
backdown.in the fu(jrii

•iy favor of less-qualified minori­were when we decided to take 15 percent of those admitted
and British milita.Jit}tbt'.eatst 

ties. this case forward," he said. must be black.
As. inspectors '1Rif:t. lli~ir 

barbed"wh:-e · ·· ··· · A lower court judge in May He said the school committee The appeals court cited had upheld Roston Latin's would decide whether to recent Supreme Court decisions
compound in 

admissions policy. appeal. or change the admis­that show the high court is
Baghdad, 

Sarah's father, Henry sions policy. "highly skeptical of racial pref­
they did not 

Wessmann, said that when his Sarah's lawyer, Michael erences."
greet their 
'W!~~:~:~~~RE • ~~e <
.i i 
Iraqi escorts norni,ally in view of TRYING. TO KEEP TI-IE and :tio news cam­probf~Cs''

TEMPERATIJRE DOWN AS 
eras. Nor did w... e,r e 
::.,__,,-._.::· ;::'~%\/;
the escorts· enter the compound to meet· the inspect(}rs; as..•·they dld before ,the' 
latest showdown. 
"We ·like itlhis wayJts{i;id an Iraqi escort w{l;ititig out-. side in a car. isj'!';t.'. cials. 
Charles Duelfet).dep·uty Those l director of. the U.'.N1,Spec::i~l first Sill Commission overseeing the. allow fu arms inspections. ~µg~este<i. . lt .on.I the low profile W%}~~µti1:m:.. 
al. 
"We're coming sis," he s.aid in 
interview Jr.oui 
''We'.re tl',YJJig 
temperature d 
a.s possible." Thrf offtcial · 

Diamond PriceQuotations 


246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diainond Authority®
A Division of John M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
VIRUS ALERT • VIRUS ALERT • VIRUS ALERT • VIRUS ALERT 
Two PC viruses-W32.CIH.SPACEFILLER and LAROUX-have reached the Notre Dame campus. Because both of these viruses are new. Anti-virus software older than three months may not be able to detect and eliminate them. Macintosh and UNIX systems are not affected by these viruses. 
The CIH virus is the more dangerous of the two, as it contains a trigger for the 26th of any month. On this date, the virus will attempt to overwrite the flash-BIOS of your computer. If the flash-BIOS is write-enabled (and it is in most computers), this virus will render the machine unusable because it will no longer boot. At the same time, the virus may also overwrite the hard disk with garbage. The Laroux virus is a macro virus which infects Microsoft Excel spreadsheets under Windows 3.1, Win95/98 and Win NT. This virus is not destructive, but will spread whenever an infected spreadsheet file is accessed. 
You can review additional details about these and other viruses at http://www.nai.com/vinfo/ 

What ND PC Users Should Do 
All Operating Systems: Windows 3.1 /95/98: 
Make sure your data is backed up on a regular basis. If you're storing your files to Because these viruses• are new, you must be using a current version of anti-virus software NDAccess (H:), this is done for you each evening. Ifthey're stored anywhere else, you are to insure that your computer is monitored and protected from infection. Since the CIH responsible for keeping an updated copy. virus can be very damaging to your computer and data, we encourage you to take extra 
precautions in checking for this virus. If your computer is already infected, you must boot
NT@ND: 

from a known virus-free disk (see below for more details), and then scan all materials. 
NT@ND computers already have an updated version of McAfee VirusScan. If you're using Even if you already have anti-virus software installed on your computer, if it has not been 

an NT@ND computer, check the icons in the task bar (opposite the Start button) and updated to detect these new viruses, you are at risk. 

confirm that you have the "V" s\1,.\1cld ,icon. Once this program is active, it monitors for viruses and prevents them from becoming active in memory and causing further infection. Windows NT Server: However, if you have files saved that are infected with a virus, it won't scan and clean them Since the campus implementation of NT (NT@ND) does not require the use of an NT without your accessing the file, or specifically running the full scan component of the Server, our site license does not cover the McAfee product required for this environment. program. To run the full scan on an NT@ND machine, select Start/Programs/Basic/ If you need this or other version of the software not covered by our site license, you can Utilities/McAfee VirusScan. In the Scan In field, select the drive to scan, select the All Files obtain an evaluation copy of the server version for this platform from tab (necessary t9 detect macro viruses) and click the Scan Now button. Repeat this process http://www.nai.com/download/default.asp for each drive that you have write access to (including your ND Access space of H:). 


Scanning for Viruses 

Obtaining a Boot Disk: To Use the Disk: . To obtain a single boot disk with the McAfee VirusScan 4.0.01 software to scan and • Boot the computer with the diskette in the A: drive. It will automatically scan and clean clean your computer: all local drives and partitions. This process may take some time, so plan accordingly. 
• 
Faculty/staff: Departmental Computer Consultants (DCCs) will have this disk and • Once the computer is virus free, reboot from the hard drive, download and install the can share or visit all computers in their respective departments. If you don't have a latest McAfee program from http://www.nd.edu/-windos Follow the link for the DCC, or wish to check your home computer, you should purchase your own disk operating system you are using. A full manual for McAfee VirusScan can also be from the OIT Solutions Center for $1. accessed from this site (PDF format). 

• 
Students: Residential Computer Consultants (RCCs) will have multiple copies of You only need to use your virus-free disk once. It should remain write-protected at all this disk which they will "check out" to those in their hall. Please contact your RCC times. Once you are done cleaning your drives and installing the current program, you can during their office hours (which are posted in every dorm) to borrow a copy. If you share the disk with others who need to perform the same operations. don't have an RCC, or wish to check a computer that is not on ResNet, you may 


Contact the OIT Help Desk for further information or assistance.
purchase your own disk from the OIT Solutions Center for $1. 

THE OIT HELP DESK: Phone: 219-631-8111 Email: info. 1@nd.edu Web: http://www.nd.edu/oit/support 
Macintosh and UNIX systems are not affected by these viruses. 
_____.~-------------,---------~­











VIEWPOINT 

¦ fHt: BEAT 

Thank You, Mr. Notre Dame 
i\s lhn linal lmrrw garrni swiftly approadrns. wo am liLCPtl with a task that looms laq{r.: tailgating so dramatically that iL'i impn~ssion Pmlurns until SPptPmlll'r Ill' IIPXt y,,ar. Wr. am called to assPrt our spirit in any way we can. and w1• arP diallnngnd lo once again provn why wn should win. 


~l~-Bri-ttany... Morehouse 
Tailgating and supporting our football warn is a Vflfy w11ighty matter. and should bn trnatnd as such. We have a great tradi­tion to uphold here. Wo study the masters in every arr.a or oxpnriencr.: Beethoven and Mozart in music, Plato and Aristotle in Philosophy, Knute and Frank in Football 101. So loo should we study thA wit, wisdom and ways of one of the great­est lailgaters of all time: Matt St. Marie. 
Malt can trace his Irish enthusiasm back to his first day of' kindergarten, when lw proudly stood l'or his class pie­turn wearing a Notrn Dame letterman's swnatnr. Having just turned 34, Matt now boasts a 17-ynar rncord of avid tailgating and loyal game attmidance. Never once has lw arrived on campus with a tickr.l in his pocket. 
Matt proposed to his sweetheart on hmuJed-krrne bmwuth the arches of' Knute HockM Stadium at high noon, as thr. foot­h,LII fans poured into the gates f'or the Saturday Show. Novnr having actually m11t Lou himself, Matt s11nt then-Coach I loltz ,lll invitation to his w<'dding, which was ddib,1rat11ly scheduled on a by-week­1md in 1991. Although Lou could not makn it lo his wedding, Matt cherishes tlw lotll\r Lou wrote in which he wished Malt and his bridu "the best of luck from the Univorsily of' Notre Damr." and said that he would "look forward to seeing you in Hawaii." llr. thr.n spent his honeymoon tailgating out of the back scat of a taxi as tho Fighting Irish facnd Hawaii. 


Matt and his wifo Laurie live in his hometown ol' Elyria. Ohio, with their son, Hym1, agl\ live ttrnl daughtor, Riley, three years old. Both children knew every word to the Notre Dame Victory March bef'ore they learned their ABCs. Plans for a third chil(tare in full ~lh'.i,ng;. Matt has named 
i.hobaby-· . · .. ·--•... '· to-be "Rockne." "To me," Matt says, "Notre Dame is the epito­me ol'a college campus. It is out­standing that a smaller­size uni­versity with about 8,000 stu­dnnlc:; ath­letically competes at the same level as big time Division f schools with student populations of 50,000." Moreover, Matt feels that those accepted are an "elite group," given that ND attracts people from every state. He holds a great amount of respect for the students enrolled at Notre Dame. Matt believes that "the student support is unbelievable." Matt disagrees with those who would claim the fun 'n games underlying school spirit are sometimes extreme. "I think that no matter how rowdy it may seem, it is nowhere near as bad as schools like Michigan or Ohio State. Nobody at Notre Dame would ever do anything to disgrace the University. f 
have yet to sec it get out of hand," he said. 
This year. Matt feels the most positive difference is that "it seems as though under Bob Davie, Notre Dame has regained home field advantage. It used to be that ND was an impossible place to win at until live or six years ago." Matt is doing his part in the overall effort to cre­ate the most awesome football experience in the country: Ile has added a propane ~ep fryer Lo his many chairs, wide tables
.. , .
' 
and full smorgasbord offering of ham­burgers, bratwurst, chicken wings, soup and more at his tailgate parties. He cheerfully foots the bill for all this food and drink. explaining to Laurie that he feels conscientious about doing it for the Notre Dame student community. "After all, someone did it for me." He leaves Elyria at five a.m., is parked by nine and immediately proceeds to launch a memo­rable tailgate party. The early arrival gives him plenty of time to search for tick­ets. 
All ofthis love from one person ... for one school. Yet, what makes this story so different from all others is that Matt him­self has nnver attended Notrn Dame. 
Matt was devastated when his applica­tion to attend Notre Dame was not accepted. Ile sought out the admissions oflice and claimed that if he couldn't be a freshman, he wantnd to b11 a sophomore at ND. Matt followed the advice of admis­sions and applied to a school he had never nven heard of, Miami of Ohio. Matt became known as "Mr. Notre Dame" at Miami. "I went to the sr,hool that ND told me to go to, took the classes ND told me 
to take and got even better grades than the ones ND told me to get." Matt says. "I left Miami as a freshman and said goodbye to every­one because I was sure I was going to Notrn Dame." But it was not to be. I asked him to duscribe his feelings on Notre Dame in one word. 

"Admiration," he says. "I wish I could bn more a part of Notre Dame than I am, and hopefully someday my kids will be." 
Well, Matt, I'd say you are more a part of' us than you can imagine. Alumni status or not. you are right there in the heart and soul ofus. You give us reason to pause, take stock and 
appreciate what we have. Thank you, Mr. Notre Dame. 
Brittany Morehouse is an Hnglish and American Studies major exiled offcam­pus. She will be standing, camera in hand, outside the Howard Hall arches tomorrow at noon. She is hoping that at that time. herformer Duckmates will appear at their windows to wave and quack. She can be reached at Morehouse. l@nd.edu or by smoke signal. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

¦ DOONESBURY 
ZIPP£/?, 7HI, 
MI t!VIN'
l5/XX/6,70· 

l5fJ!NGi;ING NATW 8/NGel? 1 l/1<'&,~ 
NIGHT!3 aGk3­
/ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

NO,/,(/p ~,FORON& 
11/HATr

fXWT, lK1/6. THING, AFTeR 
NO IV(}N(l/j/(.

tvHA15IT A F&t4J ff:JPS, 
rM5'TRIK­

ti/<£ r AU7HE-G/R/,S 
IN6aff.1

( taJI<. 0(K)l1.1AU. 
CF '5M! \ 
" 
¦ 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
, Those who hear not the music think the dancers mad.' 
-Hallmark card 





VIEWPOINT 

-------------------Friday,November 20, 1998
page 12 
¦ LETTER TO THE EOITOR 

Flying Sea Creatures Present Real Danger 
Hi Notre Dame. Meet your friendly neighborhood FAST tP-am. You've seen us on the field during fontball games, watch­ing the floor at pep rallies, standing dili­gently on the sidelines at intramural events and i>very once in a while driving the golf cart to Bookstore tournaments and Saturday morning runs, But hopeful­ly, none of you have mot us until now. 
The First Aid Services Team has oper­ated at ND for 15 years, und is comprised of students just like you trained at tho minimum in Professional CPR and First Aid. We are not ushers, security or alum­ni, but rather your roomies, lab partners and friends. 
Every Saturday that the men in blue and gold suit up to charge the Hom;•~ That Rockne Built, we t.oo don our uniforms. 
¦ THE COMMON Gocm 

Our job, however, is to defend the over 
80.000 ganie watchers, cheerleaders, band members and thousands more tail­gating oui.sidH the stadium. We don't get halftime olT and there are no time-outs. We handle everything from bee-stings to cardiac arrest. 
!\.nd we are good at what we do. 
Oct. 31. however, we were challenged as never before. It was a parents week­end, the stadium was full, it was a very cold game, the steps were wet, and there were lots of Baylor fans on campus tail­gating. These conditions made for a less than easy day, but nothing could have prepared us for the injuries sustained at halftime. Not by nature, or accidents, or even excitement. Student.s were hurting other sllldents, alumni and children. and we cou!d do nothing to stop it. Seniors, throwing any dead animals, especially heavy, sharp-edged. preserved animals and above all fish or other marine organ­isms carry serious health risks. Sophomores and li·eshmen. marshmal­lows with golf tees sticking out of them are very dangerous. Nobody here is argu­ing the defilement of a senior tradition or the degree of class inherent in either of these things. In an Adam Sandler movie, this would be hysterical. But this is real, as are the bruLses, sprains, and the little girl with a cut on her face so large it required a number ofstitches. 
The LSU game is upon us, and our team is scrambling to make final preparations Lo make this a fun, exciting and safe game for everyone. We are pleading with the students of Notre Dame to help us, to con­sider the consequences of throwing a raw, dead fish or sharp object at someone who could not he prepared or even able to defend themselves. So please, on Saturday, keep the golf tees on the green and leave the fish mutilations to the din­ing halls after the game and lets all remember why we threw marshmallows to begin with. 
The First Aid Services Team 
Nicole Johnson, Varsity football Jon Cook, Special Events 
Gina Pierson, 
John Osborn, Rec Sports November I9, 1998 
A Response to the Loyal Dissent ofNeo-Conservative Economics 
On October 28, Joshua Hochschild's let­tr.r to lhe editor appeared under the titlo, "Whitmore Takes Wrong Angle in Criticism nf Neo-Conservative Economics." 
rwould like to take a pause in this series to respond. I want to thank Mr. Hochschild for his thoughtful letter. ln the letter. in which he makes clear that he is not a neo-


Todd David Whitmore 
conservative, Mr. Hochschild states that he has "never heard the neo-conservatives defend themselves with this denial [of eco­nomic rights], and if George Weigel did it on one occasion I submit that it was an unnecessary misstep on his part." Neo­conservative economics, "does admit the importance ofeconomic rights, and espe­cially emphasizes the right to private prop­erty and the right to free association." It is "by maximally respecting these rights that we best serve the other rights." The issue, then, "is not whether there are economic rights, but how those economic rights are best respected." 
Traditionally, the right to private prop­erty and to freedom of association have been considered civil and political rights, rather than economic rights. This may seem odd given that property appears to be an economic concern. \Nhy it is called a civil and political right seems to have at least two bases. First, historically, persons needed to have private property in order to participate in the political sphere as citi­zens. The right to private property protect­ed political participation (at least for some; women and slaves could not participate because they WERE property rather than HAD property). The second basis is a judg­ment about the role of the state. Classical liberal political thought allows for the role of the state to protect private property as a right, but does not want the state involved in the economic sphere for other reasons. What gets classified as a civil and political right, then, are those areas of social life where traditional liberal political thought seeks state protection (such as Locke's "life, liberty. and prn11erty"). This associa­tion of civil and political rights with tradi­tional liberalism gains accent with the rise of Marxist thought and its prioritization of economic over liberal rights. Weigel did not make a misstep, therefore; he was simply following, as I have been, the tradi­tional rubrics. However, his rej1~ction of economic rights places him in the classical liberal rather than the Catholic tradition on rights. 
The key work for addressing the issue of political/civil versus sociaVeconomic rights from a Catholic perspective is David Hollenbach's "Claims in Conflict: Retrieving and Renewing the Catholic Human Rights Tradition" (1979). The first chapter setB out the Soviet Marxist and classical liberal approaches. Soviet Marxism gave priority to economic rights over political rights such that the latter can be suppressed until the former are met. Classical liberalism argues that if per­sons make good use of the freedom that is protected by civil and political rights, then the economic goods that others seek to protect under the rubric of"economic rights" will be procured. Tl1is is not pre­cisely a reversal of the Marxist prioritiza­tion ofeconomic over political rights because when "push comes to shove, social and economic claims are not rights 

at all" in classical liberal -now called 
neo-conserv­line. lie calls for "explicit recognition" of' human rights !par. 47) Herc. ho citRs paragraph 17 of his previous document, "Redemptor Hominis," where he writes lhat "we cannot fail to recall at this point, with esteem and profound hope for tho future, the magnificent effort made to give life to the United Nations Organization, an 
elfort conducive to the definition and establishment of man's objective and invi­olable rights. There is no need for the Church to confirm hnw closely this prob­
lem is linked with her mission in the mod­
ern world. Indeed it is at the very basis of social and international peace, as has 
been declared by John XXIII, the Second 
Vatican 
ative -politi­cal economics (17). Hollenbach then discuss­es how the United Nations Dedaration on Human Rights attempts to overcome the bifurcation between kinds of rights by rec­ognizing both types. However, the approach is not integrat­ed: the Declaration is divided into two "covenants" -one with political 

...,, ";:__r:::~~o~-~e~f~;~~~~
right<;, the 

other with economic rights -which are not binding. The rest of "Claims in Conflict" sets out an approach, grounded in Catholic social doc­trine, that integrates political and econom­ic rights. This approach affirms the dignity of the human person -rooted in the per­son's being created in the image of God ­and notes that that dignity can he realized cmly in society. The fact nfhuman dignity implies rights that protect or promote thH manifestation of that dignity. Some actions and ina,:tions that damage (fail to protect) or obstruct (fail to promote) human dignity require political rights; others require eco­nomic rightc;. Hollenbach bases this under­standing of rights on a close reading of papal documents from Leo XIII to Paul VI, who was pope when the bnok was fin­ished, Hollenbach has since emphasized the communal dimension of human rights more, and was a key consultant for thH American Catholic bishops' pastoral letter, "Economic Justice for All" (1986), when they wrote that both economic and poli1i­cal rights are "minimum conditions for life in community." 
John Paul 11 makes clear in "Centcsimus !\.nnus" that he is a continuation of this 
of Human Rights linked with the setting up of the United Nations Organization certainly had as its aim not only to depart from the hor­rible experiences of the last world war but also to create the basis for continual revi­sion of programs, systems and regimes from precisely this single fundamental point of view, namely the welfare of man -or, let us say, of the person in commu­nity -which must, as a fundamental fac­tor in the common good, constitute the essential criterion for all programs, sys­tems, and regimes." 
In short, John Paul concurs with Hollenbach that 1) Catholic doctrine affirms the full range of rights -economic and political -named in the Declaration of Human Rights, 2) that Catholic doctrine on the dignity of the human person in soci­ety for the sake of the common good pro­vides an integrated basis for this affirma­tion, and 3) that this affirmation places John Paul in continuity rather than discon­tinuity with earlier statements by John XXIII, the Second Vatican Council and Paul VI. 
Until my questioning of George Weigel, I, like Mr. Hochschild, "never heard the neo­
conservatives defend themselves with this denial [of economic rights]." Such explicit denial would make overt their dissent from Catholic doctrine. Therefore, when addressing the subject of rights, they men­tion only the political rights; and pass over the economic rights -such as the rights to food, shelter and work -in silence. In doing so, they l) create the impression that they are in assent with Church doc­trine and, even more, 2) let stand the mock sotto voce suggestion -always stat­ed in the passive voice such that the source remains mysterious -that Novak influenced John Paul (The National Catholic Register reported timt Novak is "credited with considerable input" such that his "thought is said to be reflected in Centesimus Annus."). Neither the impres­sion of assent nor the suggestion of influ­ence stands up to textual evidence. . Moreover, there is also extra-textual con­tra-indicating evidence. Between sessions at a conference on "Centesimus Annus" held at Notre Dame, a group of partici­pants asked a quite specific source, Cardinal Agostino Casaroli, who had just stepped down as Vatican Secretary of State, whether Novak had "considerable input" such that his thought "is reflected" in the document. Casaroli's answer? "No." 
Mr. Hochschild's is not the only response to this series on neo-conservative econom­ics. \,\,'hen Michael Novak was at Notre Dame last week, he left a number of mes­sages on my voice mail indicating a desire to arrange a response on his part. We were able to speak briefly and a return to campus for an exchange seems pnssible. I will suggest a forum format to take place next semester after the full series of columns appears, with the texts of the columns again being made available to the public and the forum opening with Novak offering as extended a response as Im wishes to give; I would follow with a reply, and then other participants can join in the conversation. This approach, I bdieve, is preferable to a lecture or debate format because it stays close to the tflxlc.; (unlike many lectures), allows highlighting pnints of agreement as well as disagreement (unlike most debates), and involves engaged participants in a conversation rather than a passive "audience." I also recommend that participanL'> purchase Novak's "The Catholic Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism." If there is sullicient student interest, I will try to arrange a one-credit theology course on Catholic social doctrine and neo-conservative economics around this exchange and these and other texts. If this whole process is successful, I will arrange something similar in connection with the next series, which will be on Catholic social doctrine and the Catholic Worker movement. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in lhe Theology Department. I !is column appears every other Friday. 
The lliews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

Council and later Paul 
VI. in detailed docu­ments." John Paul proceeds to talk of the "duty" to evaluate all societies and their programs "from the point of view of the objective and invio­lable rights of man." He then goes cm to state that this is just what the United 
Nations was
attempting 

o 
Trh·ia o Homemade Sou 

o 
7 ft TV Screens &Dreads 

o 
Seating for o Appetizers Over 300 o Salads 

o 
Extra Large 



o Sandwiches Hooths 
nnd PASTA 
o Mouth Watering Variety of Sandwiches and Entrces 

fro'lfl the ·nto"ZJVn IJoca 
.&Qi11.t~ lID&tl\-r1~ i:tlle!10 ..&.\'f"(~o 
Wed: 15¢ Wings Live Bands
27-SPOR 
$3 Cover Charge 
··.PIZZA, BURGERS, Fri: 
.. APPETIZERS & Live Bands .. ·:::,.,,: r: : MOREr Starting Nov. 27th ' ,.'.; '._..-:\~:_ './{',: :.. ./ <, ·-~ \~ . . . $3 Cover Charge·.. ',,•• ,,il< ,1·:-1' ,,,~.;'!(·"·~ 
.•• 1tiifr:~:;c:.,;" 
Bar .Open for Lunch Friday & Saturday
.', ,,,1\.1',', 
··:'!Walking··D,s,tance,frorn Campus" 
,r_··,,_'.< ·•• "'·, •. ··_• ,. ,,; ,..,,,,.;..;,, •,:,:,·.· •.•_. • • . 




fflarco~s Pizza. 
•Lunches 
starting at .... $4.25 

• 
Dinners starting at .... $5.95 

•Banauet 
rooms available uo to 200 


Sunday Buffet-Every Sunday $8.95 for Adults $3.95 for Children Quirk and Easy Set Menu for Football Weekends!! 

Bar and Restaurant open 7 days a week l1 :00am '" -3:00pm 
(219) 272-7376 •130 Dixie Way N., South Bend• FAX 272-7425 (nf'xt to Howard Johnson) • Call For Reservations 
GO NDI BEAT LSUI 
' 
--FREE EXTRAS--­
• Parmesan Cheese Crust• Gurllc Butter Crust 
• Extra Pizza Sauce • Side Of Banana Peppers •JUSt"-­
l•FREE DRIVERY BN CAMPUS" I 
NOTRE DAME AREA 

243-1111 
o Coupon Necessary Plus Delivery & Tax Where Appllcubla 
Nol Valid With Any Other Oller 
LIMITED TIME OFFER 

ST. MARY'S AREA 

52750 U.S. 33 N. (Between Cleveland & Darden Rd.) 
-243-1122 






w E 
ceneN D 
OBSERVER -----------Friday, November 20, 1998 
Did you know? Thi., is the Jint L'iU-Pi-'lJ rootdMip in 5'1tlth Bend smt~e 
1985. 


ABOUT THE TIGERS 
.C.ocATION:. BATON Ro1JGE, LA~ EouNDE·n: 1 ~.§o;_ iNROLLMENT!. 28,077 NICKNAME: TIGERS 
·:~~OL'ORSJ PuRPLJ3 AND ·Go.Lo .:&!ASCOT! MIKE•V 
iiS:;rAn.1u~r:· T1GER STA01uM 
:~·-. 

·CONFERENCE: SouTHEAST·ERN 
PRES·lD~NT:•.. AEtEN'' A. COPPING HEAD COACH: GERRY DINARDO 
;~;URRliN;t,,RE.tl.:(l~o: .4~5l 
.~, ',, ~ 
:.', '' 

LSUALMA MATER 
Where stately oaks and broad magnolias shade inspiring halls. There stands our dear Alma Mater who to us recalls Fond memories that waken in our hearts a tender glow, And make us happy for the love that we have learned to know. 
All hail to thee our Alma Mater, molder of mankind, May greater glory, love unending be forever thine. Our worth in life will be thy worth we pray to keep it true, And thy spirit dwell in us forever ... L-S-U. 

,....---------=--------------------,,,_,-------~----------­
Friday, November 20, 1998
page2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER 



INTERHALL CHAMPIONSHIPS • NOTRE 

. 

' 
=-~"' 
_,_., 
-! ' 
.¾ 
~:. 
, ;.J 

SORIN ROSTER  
Greg Belden_  RT/ILB  Leonard Mania  DUTE  
Pete Belden  QB  Xavier Manrique  TB/LE  
Larry Burchett  s  Pat McGrath  SE/CB  
Luke Burke  DT/OL  Trevor Morris  TB/LB  
Paul Chen  LG/RE  Sean Neugebauer  DT/OL  
Mike Crowe  FUCB  Dave Russo  K  
PJ DuWors  OLB  Ryan Shoshone  TE/P  
Dave Fiorini  FB/ILB  Mike Stolze  RE/LB  
Dan Hettinger  CB  Antonie Tobias  FUS  
Todd Langager  CB  Michael Velten  RG/LE  
Doug Lawrence  OLB/FB  Jim Walsh  C/DT  
Chad Maestas  QB  Andy West  SE  

:I 
'; 
i 
•KEENAN VS~ SORIN 

Sorin fights to knock the Knights out 
-~ 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Spans Wricer 
A match-up of top-seeded, undefeated teams in the championship game is always worth watching. And when a rematch of last year's championship is added to the equation, the game becomes a must-see. 
This Sunday, the defending interhall champions from Keenan Hall take the field to battle the Sorin Otters for the sAcond time in as many years. 
Following their 8-0 defeat at the hands of Keenan last November. the Otters have been waiting for a rematch. Now 

" the Otters will finally have their chance 
·• to unseat Keenan, the reigning interhaU 
i! men's football champions. "We have been waiting for this rematch since last year," said Sorin defensive end and offensive guard Mike 
,j Velten. "Last year we were just happy to 
,: be there. This year
:! we are here to win." 
,,I This game takes on , ~AST YEAR WE WERE
11 
even more impor-

H tance for the Sorin UST HAPPY TO BE seniors. 
THERE. THIS YEAR WE ARE
"We have a lot of seniors and we want HERE TO WIN.' to send them out on top," Velten said. 

"This could be the SORIN LINEMAN MIKE VELTEN last time that most of EXPLAINING THE 0ITERS' them ever play foot­GOAL OF PLAYING TO WIN THE 
ball." 
CHAMPIONSHIP THIS YEAR.
But Keenan is not 
just going to roll over 
and let the Otters have the title. Keenan rides a 13-game winning streak into this year's champi­onship. 
The key to the Knights' winning streak has been their stingy defense. Allowing only 18 points in their last 13 games, the Knights' five-two defense has baffled opposing offenses all season. 
The strength of their defensive unit has been the strong play of their line­backers. Joe Klopp and Mike Romanchek have combined to form per­haps the second-best linebacking corps on campus. Only a group that includes Jimmy Friday can be argued better. 
Hoping to crack this brick wall of a defense is an Otter offense that has been inconsistent during the playoffs. 
In the opening round match-up against Morrissey, the Otter offense was shut down before a botched punt gave them good field position. But the Otters were unable to capitalize, settling for a Dave Russo field goal and a 3-0 victory. 
The offense managed a complete turn­around in the semi-finals. Quarterback Pete Belden led a 21-point explosion as the Otters downed the Alumni Dawgs 21-7. 

"We executed a lot better that game," Velten said. "We had a good week of practice and came into the game much more focused." 
Sorin runs an I-formation offense with 
Trevor Morris as its featured back. 
Morris' play has impressed even the 
Knights. 

"Their tailback runs hard." Keenan 
captain Dong Min said. "He is a big kid." 
"We are ready for this game," Velten said. "We have had a great week of practice and are well prepared for Keenan." 
The Keenan offense is Jed by all-pur­pose threat Craig Venvertloh at quarter­,back. Venvertloh is a threat to run or 
pass at all tinies. "[Venvertloh] is an excellent athlete," Min said. "He makes our offense go." 
Keenan's pro-style offense features an 
equally dangerous running and passing 
attack. Romanchek and Nick Costanzo 
are the featured backs in the rushing attack, while Nelson Rivera and Ben Carpenter are Venvertloh's favorite aerial targets. 
The Keenan offense has impressed oppo­nents all year. 
"They controlled the ball extremely well," Matt Orenchuk of 
Dillon Hall said. "They 
don't make mistakes." Keenan defeated Dillon 8-0 during the 

KEENAN ROSTER 
regular season. 

The Otter defense charged with the task of stopping the Keenan offense has performed extremely well in the play­offs. Completely shutting down Morrissey and limiting Alumni to one touchdown, the Otters have only allowed seven points in two post-season games. 
The Otter defense also features an excellent linebacking corps. Senior Greg Becton leads this experienced group. 
If Keenan can get past the Otters this year, they may be on the verge of a dynasty. After losing many critical play­ers from last year's team, many counted the Knights out this year. 
The Knights. however, didn't rebuild; they reloaded. With a strong core of sophomore and juniors leading this year's squad, Keenan could be unstop­pable in the next two years. 
"If everybody comes back again next year," Min said. "We will have another solid team." 
For the Sorin Otters, this could be their last chance. They are a senior­dominated squad with a "win now" atti­tude. It could be a few years before the Otters have another chance at the title_ 
I  Jon Beasley  RE  
t!  Kevin Carney  CB/FB  
Ben Carpenter  SE  
Mike Collins  RT  
Tom Corr  s  
Nick Costanzo  TB/CB  
Mark Crudo  TE  
Matt Farrell  CB  
JJ Frigge  NG  
Steve Gehrmann  s  
Herb Giorgio  LG  
Kasey Hinchman  LT  

Nick Johnson  FL  
Joe Klopp  LB  
Brad McDonald  DT  
Carlos Meade  SE  
Marty Meyer  LE  
Dong Min  s  
Eric Nelson  C  
Nelson Rivera  FL  
Mike Romanchek  LB/FB  
Zach Schuller  AG  
John Scroggins  DT  
Craig Venvertloh  QB  



Friday, November 20, I 998 The Observer. IRISH INSIDER page 3 
------------------'-'--'---"----'-------:.;_:_______________________::__:::;__ 

-
00TB 

. E STADIUM • NOVEMBER 22, 1.998 

•PASQ!JERILLA EAST vs~ BREEN-PHILLIPS 
0. LINE 
lkllilll 
T'11W111111 
'. ' f ",
., 

'; -1,· .. ,t,j~
~·/~,:;:~ 
' 

r~~FENSE t ~ RUNNINGBACK~·-1 .. 
O.LINE 
McNlcholas

RUNNING BACK 
Suarle 
~ OLB 
Conlon 
) 
WIDE REGEi .LINE _ Hanley _ Bl'Ullllrg • 

~OU~ . Fla,herty Wahos 
TIGHT END , ' Rosi ,
. 
' \(•1­
'•··r,,-~ 
~ ' ' .. 

:;y ',., .~\ . .' 
; .·.. t ,;/ .:_: i' 
fall primarily on the shoulders of 
CORNERBACK 

,'·•,', 
~~-IL-« I 
Sofia Barbato 

,, •• :'11\,,.).iij_.., ,fi. '.' ,. '' ., .. -~ .. 
BP ROSTER 

Olivia Almeida-Duque OLB  Jessica Martin  
Katie Bonohoe  OUC  Gina Montenaro  
Jenny Choi  QB  Ann Moriarty  
Casey Cole  CB  Kristin Schank  
Donna Conlon  CB/OLB  Jill Schuler  
Francesca Delayo  RB  Erin Smith  
Mary Finley  C  Meghan Speeks  
Tracy Hyduk  DUOLB  Mary Sullivan  
Marita Keane  OLB/P/C  Lisa Sutton  
Natalie Kelley  RB/P  Jenny Wahoske  
Katy Leicht  OLB  Erin West  

Anna Benjamin 

Christie Bodnar s Kate Bramberg WR Kristin Carey MLB Meghan Cokely RB Laura Daniels OLB/S Kathleen Dunn OL Susie Fanning TE Meghan Flaherty OL Stephany Foster CB Melissa Gorman DL Kerrie Hanley TE Alison Healy 
Tina Helquist 

Banshee sprlt looks to extinguish Pyros 
By TED FOX 
Sports Writer 

Oddly enough, Sunday's women's interhall football championship game between No. 4 Breen-Phillips and No. 3 Pasquerilla East, the last game of the ·t 998 season, is actually a new beginning. 
Whatever has happened before this point doesn't matter. The victories, the great plays and the heartbreaks have all fallen by the wayside. There's one game left to be played, and it's a winner-take-all affair. 
The Pyros come into Sunday's con­test as the defending champs, having knocked off Lewis in the final last year. However, familiarity with the Big Game hasn't dampened the team's enthusiasm, as junior corner­back and captain Alison Healy explained, the whole squad is "still excited to be in the Stadium." 
'WE'VE HEARD BP
Heading the PE record than BP (5­offensive assault is DOESN'T HAVE A 2-1). and the senior quarterback CHANCE.' advantage of Elizabeth Plummer. seven more play­The versatile ers on the roster, Plummer not only BP CAPTAIN JENNY CHOI but the Pyros also beats teams through COMMENTING ON THE HYPE SUR-have the confi­
the air but is also a dence and intimi­
ROUNDING THE CHAMP!ONSH/P dation that come
key component of the 

Pyros' running game. When you add to the mix senior Ann Suarle and junior Melissa Gorman, both running backs, the threat of the option becomes a real concern for the defense. 
According to Healy, once the "pass­ing game gets going, [it] establishes the run." Creating and maintaining this balance is a key to PE's offensive success. 
If Breen-Phillips hopes to contain the PE attack, senior captain and quarterback Jenny Choi said the team must "keep the intensity up" for the entire game. 
In the semi-final against rarley, the defense allowed a touchdown on the first Farley drive, but blanked the Finest after that, showing the devas­tating effect of intensity. · 
As for the PE defonse, the Pyros are "looking to be aggressive" and "knock stuff down," in the words of Healy. The responsibility for patrolling the Banshees' airways will 
PE ROSTER 
LB 
s 
CB OL OL DL DL LB 
s 
OL DL RB WR CB WR Robin Horning Kristin King Stacey Leicht Gina Locklar Bridget McNicholas Biz Mcshane Molly O'Rourke Donata Parillo Elizabeth Plummer Abby Ross Molly Rost Ann Suarle Laura Threadgold Stephanie Troutman 

Healy and fellow defensive backs Donata Parillo, a junior cornerback, Anna Benjamin, a sophomore safety, and Susie Fanning, a freshman safe­ty. 
These PE backs have their work cut out for them, as they face Choi, another dominating quarterback..In the Banshees' semi-final against Farley, Choi dismantled the defensive backfield with thrne touchdowns thrown to three different receivers. 
The senior quarterback will look to the offensive line of junior Mary Sullivan, senior Erin Smith, and senior Mary Finley for the same out­standing protection they provided against the Farley rush, a perfor­mance Choi called "awesome.'' 
Despite being separated by only one spot in the playoff seedings, Breen-Phillips seems to come into the game as tlrn underdog. Not only does PE (7-1) boast a stronger 
MATCH-UP. with being the 
defending 
champs. 
"We've heard 

BP doAsn't have a chance," Choi said. 
However, comments like these haven't dampened the team's confi­dence concerning its chances. When asked what her team's biggest key to winning the game will be, the captain replied: "Don't let them intimidate 
us." 

Meanwhile. PE is rnady to embark on the last stage of their quest for back-to-back titles. The team looks to be in good shape with no major injuries, good practices, a large num­ber of players, and a positive atti­tude, as captain Healy said: "We'ro just looking forward to it [the game]." 
The final test for both teams is on Sunday. Whatever the outcome may be, it should be a memorable game between two teams who have both proven that they know what it takes to win. But only one will emerge vic­
-
torious. 
LB OL WR DL 

-
OL LB CB CB QB WR WRn-E RB 
DL JDL 

r----·---~----~---·-··~-·-­
page4 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 20, 1998 
-
.. 1998 NOTRE DAMI: 

INTERHALL FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHlt•s BREEN-PHILLIPS l\ANSHEES 
vs. 

PASQVERILLA EAST PYROS NOON 
KEENAN KNIGHTS ­
vs. 

SORIN OTTERS 
1:30 P.M. 

NOTRE DAME STADIUM SUNDAY, NOVEMBER22 

IRISH INSIDER 
EDITOR: KATHLEEN LOPEZ ASSOCIATE EDITOR: ALLISON KRILLA ASSISTANT EDITOR: ANTHONY BIANCO D~SIGN: MARK DEBOY GRAPHICS: PETE CILELLA COVER PHOTOS: JOHN DAILY PHOTOS: KEVIN DALUM & UZ LANG 

-p-::a---·••IIIIIQll!G..&ll!!l!l_i_SQ&___W~WS'!IL_.~........---•~JW.-olWlll'l¥....---•IOl--cs»l'!lllll'lllll4U!'alllllll4,,._......-!"ltomm:_ _...,.._ _.,,-..--,~-----........-:---=-~·...---w-c'P!tWa-,____..,..,.-.:-~---­
w E 
ceneN D 
Friday, November 20, 1998----------------O ll-lE 
BSERVER 

TO POUNCE TJIE TIGERS 
~l i., iU l l d St d t ,.' [ •ll. i t l' }'., £t} :\.11 r. 2 I • 1I..) lJ..... 
THE MATCH 
IJlvs. 
UP 
IN THE PAST 
Series Record: 
Series tied 4--4 
Games at LSU: 
Series tied 2-2 
Games at Notre Dame: 
Notre Dame leads 2-1 
Last LSU win: 
Independence Bowl 1997 (27-9 in Shreveport, La.) 
Last Notre Dame win: 
1997 (24-6 at LSU) 

Notre Dame and LSU meet for the ninth time this season, with the series tied at four wins apiece. 
Did you know? 

UV co,u-h Gt?'f"ry lliNdrdt,. wa.~ a fontlt!'f till• Amt'Tic:an ft;>r Notre Dume t.lTW fl tr~,,.~ uf' the 191.3 Champwn.ship Et'tllJl-


THE STORY OF l\1IKE 1--HE 'J'IGER 
l\1ike V is a live Bengal Tiger, living his eighth year on the LSU campus. He serves as the graphic im·age of all LSU athletic teams. Before every home football game, Mike rides through Tiger stadium in a cage. His cage is then parked next co the opponent's locker room and each opposing player must walk by him in order to reach the locker room. LSU fans believe that for every time Mike growls before a game LSU will score a touchdown. 
The Tiger nickname was used for at least 50 years before Mike the live tiger became the official mascot. Since 1935, there have been four other "Mikes." 
TIIE NICl{NA..\-IE 

The name ..Tigers" was chosen in 1896 after LSU posted a perfect 6-0-0 record. The nmne refers to a hand of Louisiana rebels who fought at the Battle of Shenandoah in the Civil War. The rebels were known as the fi~h ting band of Louisiana Tigers. After LSU's fourth year of intercollegiate football. it adopted the niclnrnmc ""Tigers.,. in honor of these rebels. In 1955. the nickname became the ""Fighting Tigers." 
COLORS: ROYAL PURPLE AND OLD GOLD 
Jn 1893. LSU baseball temu captain E. A. Young chose the royal purple and old gold ns LSlrs official colors before the team·s first intcrcol1c~iatc competition -the first intercolle/!iate competition for any sport at LSlT. The haschall team wore these colors in their 
first ~mne. 
When the first foothall ~amc was played on Nov. 25, 1893. coach 
Dr. Charles Coates hm~ht ribbon to decorate the team•s ~rey jcr~ scys. Stores were stocldn~ rihhons in the colors of Mardi Gra.oi, ­pttJJJlc. ~old and ~reen -but none of the green ribbons had arrived. Coates purchased aJJ of tJ1e pmvJe and ~old. ribbons for the temn. 

SEASONS: PAST and PRESENT 
'97 SCHEDULE in review (9-3) 
TEXAS,EL PASO 
at Mississippi State 
AUBURN 
AKRON 
at Vanderbilt 
FLORIDA 
MISSISSIPPI 
at Kentucky 
at Alabama 
NOTRE DAME 
ARKANSAS 
Independence Bowl 
'98 SCHEDULE 
Sept. 12 Sept. 19 Sept. 26 Oct. 3 Oct. 10 Oct. 17 Oct. 24 Oct. 31 Nov. 7 Nov. 21 Nov. 27 ARKANSAS STATE at Auburn IDAHO GEORGIA at Florida KENTUCKY MISSISSIPPI STATE at Mississippi ALABAMA at Notre Dame at Arkansas 

55,3  w  
24-9  w  
28-31  L  
56-0  w  
7-6  w  
28-21  w  - 
21-36  L  
63-28  w  
27-0  w  
6-24  L  
31-21  w  
27,9  w  
- 

.. 

&£ Xi A sc oz a a a s ;; n a au s EEL &COD page 16 The Observer. SPECIAL AD SECTION hiday, November 20, 1998 
Nick's 

Opeal4 
a..... 
277-7400 

-<, •Breakfast served all day •Lunch 
•Dinner 
•Or a snack ANYTIME 
Just Minutes from Campus 

-
-
Sports Grill & Pub 
123 W.Washington St. 
Downtown South Bend 
After the Game. 

Be sure to stop in and check out our crazier than ever Specials!! 
r-----,r-----,r-----, 
I I I I I I
I 40 wings, 2 I I Tail-Gate Special!! I 11/3 lb. Burger. regu-1 Basket Chips for I I 25 t wings before any ND I I lar Buffalo Chips, I:I $12.00 football game and a soft drink for 
;_•.I I I (as early as 9:30 am) I I $S OO I 
(carryout only) · \...IExpires_____12/28/.98 obsmap I IExpires 11/28/98 obsmap I 1Expires 12/28/98 obsmap
... ._ _____ _. ._ ____._....I 
bw-3 is the place to catch all the big college and pro footbaJl games. With 6 sattelites, 20 TVs, and ESPN's College Game Day, 
and NFL Sunday ticket 
football packages, we've got 
your game. 

1/2 Block West of College Football Hall of Fame 
,,,..,..,.,,,.,;,••­
.{~~ 
i 
:I!..;p ' 

~ ~ 
.,KV/\~ 
This display was made possible by the combined efforts of Observer Marketing Managers, Greg Szilier and Gomez, Ad Designers, Jenn Breslow, Brett Huelat, and Jon King, and the Advertising Department. Contact Greg or Steve at 631-6900 for more information. 

OBSBMR 


-

f-ri<lay, November 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
¦ HOCKEY 
Irish look to down Broncos, Wolverines this weekend 
By TED BASSANI off of a 3-0 shut.out of No. 9 the power play. While they Spores Writer Ohio State the night before at did manage to tie the score the Joyce Center, and the early in the third period on 
Tlw Notre Dame hockey game took place in the power play, the unit was tnam will look to tighten ils Kalamazoo. handed a chance to win the grip 1111 first placu in t.he That night, the Irish power game and came up empty. CCIII\ tonight as they play play failed to score a goal and Midway through the third hnsl lo conl'nr11ncn foe the team's lackluster offense period, Michigan senior Sean W1\stnrn Michigan, the same that night dragged them to a Hitchlin took a major penalty Lnam that lrnndnd Lhn Irish in 2-1 defeal, which remains the for checking from behind. On Llrnir only loss of tlrn season. lnam's only loss to date. the ensuing five-minute, Saturday night, ttw tnam will "I don't think !Friday] is a power-play opportunity, the Lravd to Yost lr,11 i\rnna to put pay-back game for us, but we Irish failed to get a shot on its No. 4 national ranking on learned our lesson last time. goal in tho l'irst three and a tlrn linn against Michigan in a They have a good team and a half minutes and ultimately rmnatch of last weekend's 2-2 great goaltender," captain wasted lhe entire opportunity. Lin lrntwe(\11 the two rivals. Brian Urick said of' the loss. Michigan's roster is missing 
Following their disappoint­"Them are no walkovers in two main contributors to last 
ing ninth-place l"inish last tho CCHA." year's national championship snason, Urn Broncos of One question mark for team on offense, Bill Muckalt Wnstnrn Michigan have had a Notre Damn this weekend is and Matt Herr, a Now Jersey rnsp1ictable beginning to their the health of senior left wing native who captained the l'JIJ8-IJ9 campaign. /\!though /\niket Dhadphale, who suf­Wolverines last season. 
u 1-:-1-4 conforenco record f'ered an injury last Friday Filling their big shoes. how­may not look imprnssivn, con­against Bowling Green. I-le ever, so far this season has sidnr that thn Broncos' win missod last Saturday's game been Mike Comrie. The fresh­l'. a m n a ga in s t No . 4 No lr n against Michigan, and it looks man sensation already cen· Damn, and that onn of' their as if he may miss one or per­ters the team's top scoring tins 1·amn al No. 5 Michigan h a ps both games this week­line, and he leads the Statn and anollrnr agc1i11sl encl as wnll. Wolverines in scoring as well Ohio Statn. Dhadphalli is clearly the with 14 points (5 goals, 9 
Tlrn Bronr:os· formula for team leader on the power assists). succnss is simpln. If' senior play, and his presence was Last Saturday, Comric's goaltnndnr Matt Barnes is on sorely missed against the prowess in the face-off circle his game, Wnstnrn Michigan Wolvurines. lie leads thn landed him an assist on ,·an compete with anyone. team and is second in tho Michigan's first goal, which 
In CCIII\ ganws this snason, conference with four power tied the game on the power Barnns has a rncord of only 1-play goals, and he also ranks play. 2-4. but with a goals against tied for fourth in the confer­If the Irish am to beat the av1irag1\ of' 2.46 and a .914 ence with 16 points (9 goals, Wolverines in their back yard, savn percentage. 7 assists). they will need the power play 
In fact. Barnes was not in On Saturday night in /\nn Lo boost the offense the way it goal against Notre Damn in Arbor, Michigan will host a has in so many games so far the rirst mePling of' the snason Notre Dame team ranked this season. Of course, if hntwePn Lim two squads, ahead of them in the national i\nikct Dhadphale misses which Notrn Danw won at the polls, something Yost Arena Saturday's game, the chances .Joyce CPnt1)r. The Irish usnd fans have nnver seen before. of a power play explosion four third-period goals to wax Luckily for the Irish, the shrink significantly. thn Broncos 7-1. Wolverines arc also scheduled One big reason /'or Notre 
Tim story of thn night was to square off against archrival Dame's success so far this backing up Matt Eisler in goal Not when things arc going the power play, which man­Michigan State this Friday year has been the steady play last year, he got his first start the way they are so far, says agud four goals against night. in goal they have enjoyed in the team's 10th game, Urick: "Confidence adds a lot 
Wll s t1q· n Mi c hi ga n in n in e Last Saturday, Notre Dame from senior Forrest Karr. It is which he won on the road to a goaltender's game, and power piny opportunities. and Michigan skated to a interesting, however, to point against Ohio State. Forrest is playing with a lot of 1'11rhaps th1\ second meeting hard-fought 2-2 tie at the out that no other Irish goal­Is it about time that head confidence right now. When against Wnstern Michigan .Ioyce Center. tender has seen any action in coach Dave Poulin start things are going this well, was a lut-down g-ame for Uw Of concern !'or the Irish that the team's first 11 games. another goaltender to give perhaps we shouldn't mess Irish. The team was coming night was the performance of Consider that when Karr was Karr a rest? with it." 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for conrem wirhour issuing refunds. 
Thanks 6306 
NOTICES 

WALK TO CAMPUS 
I 

THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center We're Open A Lotlll Mon•Thur: 7:30 am -Midnight Fri: 7:30 am , 7:00 pm Sal: Noon• 6:00 pm Sun Noon -Midnight When you need copies. 
I 
2-5BEDROOM
WANTED 
232-2595 
SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun 'Nassau• Jamaica "Mazatlan 
•Acapulco'Bahamas Cruise'Fforida'South Padre Travel Free and make lots ot Cash!Top reps are offered full-time House for rent, 105 Marquette, 5 bedrooms, available now and tor next tall, 232·6964 

Room for Rent in Turtle Creek apartments.Call 273·2435. 
Notre Dame Football Tickets  Chris  we've been paying for. OK?  
258-1111  
No student tickets please  2 LSU GAs for sale  
call dave @ 1902  Rob was wondering if a certain  
Rachel from Lewis is interested In  
FOR SALE  Need 1 LSU ticket  being his date to Dillon's upcoming  
FOOTBALL TICKETS  GA or student-call  SYR  
271-9412  courtney @288-1423  

WANTED  2 LSU mar'd stud. tix $100 pr.  Personally, Rob, I think you  
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  obo 616-954-4206 Iv. msg.  should've sprung for a plane to fly  
271-1526  over the Stadium during the game,  

we're open!  staff jobs.Lowest price  Need 4 GAs. Call Pat @ 4-0660  but this is still pretty smooth. -EiC  
Early Spring Break  Guaranteed.Call now for details! www.classlraveJ.com  FOR SALE  ND Ftbl. tiK BUY-SELL  I need 2 LSU GAs  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  8001838·64 11  273-3911  Call Christian @  Bianco doesn't need people it he's  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  289-7136  got his bubble.  - 
Awesome  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT·  198 MIN. $20  ND Football Tickets Needed.  
Beaches.NighthfelDeparts From  Workers earn up to $2000+/month  CALL 258·4805  AM 232·2378 PM 288•2726  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air.Hotel.Meals &Parties  (w/t1ps & benefils).World Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000·  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  ND FOOTBALL TIX  PERSONAL  We're pretly psyched about getting this broomball thing.  
$339!Panama City Room With  $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517•  Bed box set. not available in  FOR SALE  
Kitchen.7 Free Parties  336·4235  U.S. call pele at 251·0178.  AM 232-2378  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  Ext.C55841  PM 288-2726  Break"  Where is 340 Grace Hall?  
$1491springbreaktravel.com  PHONE CARDS  Spring Break Packages are going  
1 ·800·678-6386  FOR RENT  $20 buys 282 mins. Contact  Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289·8048  fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica Packages for the Class of '991Stop  I mean, really, there's a lot of really  
# 1 Spring Break Specials1Book Early & Receive a Free Meal  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Andrea• 634-2584 Don • 684-3339  NEED 4 LSU TIX  in at Anthony Travel in the Lafortune Student Center and  hot broomball action out there.  ,_,  
Planll!Cancun & Jamaica  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  MiMi · 634·0907  Call 312-951-5008 -EVE.  check out the best Spring Break  
$399,Bahamas $459,Panama City  TO CAMPUS. 243·0658.  vacations around.Get your deposit  It's going to be a varsity sport next  
$99.  Pckrd Bell  NEED 2 LSU GA'S. CALL  in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  year. I think.  
1 ·800·234· 7707  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  120Mhz 80M RAM 1.2 g HD  257-1141.  chance with an unknown agency or  
endlesssummertours.com  Breakfast Inn has space available  CD. Mon., Spkrs.  some 1-800 number.Limited space  
ILOST & FOUND I  for football/parent wknds.S Rooms with private baths,$80· $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.  ext. warranty $500 firm 246-0781  Help my little brother see his first Notre Dame football game!!ll I need two tickets (GA or student) tor the LSU game. Good chance to make  available.so book now! Anthony Travel,lnc. LaFortune Student Center 631-7080  Bianco is pretty dull tonight. That's RIGHT, baby, yeah!  
Toll Road.Exit #107  Mac 520 power book and  some CA$HI Call Tammy @ 284·  
············FouND'''·'''·•····  1·800-418·9487  image writer printer both  5170 ASAP!ll!!I  
Big Set of keys @ Domino's on  for $650. Call 287-7928  Orgo~Businass  
Edison on 1116.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY·  2 USC TIX for sale  IF YOU ARE MAD because the  
Call 271-0300.  rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291·7153.  MAC Powerbook145 $400OBO x2116  Call Dave (651) 486-7498  crosswords have been wrong or  
Lost: black CD player case  1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  i need lsu tix! call 634·3006  messed up on the Today page, then PLEASE find a number for the  Once November's over, it'll be December And then we'll par1y like  
with 10 CD's. big reward. please. call john 4-3650  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER· TIES.272-6551  TICKETS  I NEED LSU  New York Times Syndication ser• vice and call them. Perhaps if you  It's 1999.  
Found: Keys on Adidas keychain  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  TICKETMART Inc  TICS  all tel those good people know how angry you are, they'll FINALLY  Its barley lime, baby/  
outside DeBartolo. Call x0584.  AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272•  BUY ·SELL· TRADE  x3054  

resume sending us the crosswords 

page 11:l The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 20, 1998 
¦ SMC BASl<HBAtl 
Young team looks to lead Belles into hoops heaven 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Spam Writer Eleven freshman and four 
the job done very well. 

"What we've lost in our senior starters, we've gained in better talent, more depth and 
is much better than its 8th place pro-season ranking. "Until we prove we can play," Roeder said. "we'll just have to 

"We're only going tn keep getting better every game and we'll learn from the older girls," freshman guard Jaime 
excited to get out there and start playing." Cunf'erence play J'or Saint Mary's begins on Dec. I at 
upperr.lassmen look to take Saint Mary's basketball to their first NCAA tournament ever this year. 
The Belles have an exciting year ahead of them in many ways. It is their first year as full members of the MJAA con­ference. This season also marks the first time in thfl College's history there has been a junior varsity team. In addition. this is one of the youngest teams in recent histo­ry. 
The Belles return only two of their five starters from last year, sophomore Julie Norman and senior Charlotte Albrecht. The Belles could very well start three or four freshman in thPir first game tomorrow. 
The lack of experience would worry a lot of other tPams, but Saint Mary's is excited about the youth and tal1mt on the ros­ter. 
"We have more talent this 
year than Saint Mary's may 
have ever seen," Norman said. 
"These players had offers from 
division one and two schools 
but chose to come here tu 
play." 
Head coach Dave Roeder says 
there is no definite starting 
roster as of now. but some of 
the freshman have been stand­
ing out. They will have to fill 
the shoes of three strong 
starters. especially Darcy 
Nikes, who holds the records 
for steals in a season for Saint 
Mary's and many individual 
game scoring records. Roeder 
believes they will step and get 
more competition,'' says Roeder. 
The Belles start with a non­conference tournament this weekend at Wilmington earn their respect." 
The upperclassmen hope to provide strong leadership and the freshmen would like to give the team the spark they need 

College. Here Saint Mary's to take Saint Mary's basketball hopes to show the MIAA that it to the next level. 

The Development Phone Center gratefully acknowledges those 
who have supported its student 
caller incentive program. 
F U N ll 
"P"'-~ 
Beacon Bowl, Inc. BW3 Grill & Pub The Caniage House 
Dining Room College Football 
Hall of Fame Dine-In Evergreen Florist Fancesco's Italian & 

American Restaurant Funny Bone Granger Tap & Grill, Inc. Honker's JC Penney Styling Salon Lula's Cafe Macri's Deli Outback Steakhouse Pizza Hut Pro Form Bike Shop Ritter's Frozen Custard Salon Nouveau, Inc. Shear Phazes Silver Screen Video Software City 
Computer Center Studebagels Tippecanoe Place The Varsity Shop WNDUAM&FM WRBR Radio 

Dineen said. "We're all just Hope College. 
KEEN AN 
THIS WEEK KEENAN HALL PRESENTS 
Featuring Members of the Notre Da-meJazz Band 
Featuring Notre Dame's 
Eric Myers 
Saturday Evening Beginning at 8:30 In the Keenan Basement Free Cajun Food and Beverages 
-
-

I 


ose.co 
We've created awhole new sound experience for your college years. And you'll only find it at wow.bose.com/w2309 
_HOS~ 
Bstta-somd tlrou'i/l ,-m,,, 

Cl1<)98Bo&t,Co:po,nui 



.,.,..._ ----W WWW ___...._ 
_.......__..,..____________________________ 
Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer. PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
Dear Alumni & Friends, 
The staff of Campus Ministry extends an invitation to come together and celebrate the Eucharist this weekend 
Louisiana State University Football Weekend November 21 and 22, 1998 

Saturday Vigil Masses 
Basilica 30 minutes after game 
Stepan Center . 45 minutes after game 
.. Sundav Masses 
.. 

Basilica 8:00, 10:00 & 11:45 am 
.. 

Sacred Heart Parish_ Crypt 6:00, 7:00, 8:00, ­
9:30 & 11:00 am 

I I 
-1 
I 
I 
I 
I
0MPUS 
I 
I 
I
MINISTRY 
! 
) 

I I 
I 
I
1­
I 
t .­
1 
I I I 
I 
I 
I I I I I 
I ­
I I I 
Thought about being apriest but just not ready? Want to know more first?
;:i~t: . 
Tnen taKe tne Plunue tnis year at Notre Dame! 
Afive-week immersion experience in community life with college students considering a religious vocation. 
Sponsored by the Congregation of Holy Cross, founders of ND and growing into the 21st century with more than 1700 priests, brothers, and seminarians on five continents. Participants receive upper-level theology credits. Total cost $150 plus personal expenses. 

CHRIST EXPECTS\::GREAT THINGS FROM YOUNG PEOPLE --POPE JOHN PAUL II 
Plunge runs May 20 to June 25, 1999. Current college students including graduating seniors eligible. 
Apply now. ­

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. Vocation Director Associate Vocation Director 




Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 21 
---~~ --------------------------------------------------------=-----='-----­
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Last undefeated Harvard-Yale game was memorable 
As,ncai1ed !'rcss 
BOSTON IL may have lmen Tim Game ol' all Tlw Cami's. 
Thirty years ago, 0110 or tlw most nwmorabln meetings in the rivalry lrnlwPnn Ilarvard and Yall' -both 8-0 hoading into I.hat seaso11 linale -endnd with a stunning last-min11te conrn­back and tlw rPalization that a tit• rnn Im anything hut boring. 
Th<m-Yale coach C.irrn Cozza says hP watdwd tho complntn gamt1 film just oncP, to graclo thn of'licials. and ran't lwar to seo llarvard's rally from a 21J-1 :i dnlicit to a 2<J-21J ti,i on Nnv. 23, 
1%8. 
Tlwrn will ho a lot ol' special gamns around llw nation Saturday -longtinw rivalries likP Michigan-Ohio State, Soullwrn C:alil'ornia-LJCLA, and /\11hur11-/\labama. And, on a 
-I
I 
since 1981 


Veal, Chicken, Prime Rib, Pasta Nera, Risotto, Fettuccinl Atlredo and Seafood DiShe!! BANQUET ROOM / LOUNGE 
Private P.nin, w.ddl~ Rehear-qt Oln1191't', MeeHn!III, t>lc, 


smallnr scale, Yale against l larvard f'or the 1l 5th time. 
"It's the event," Varney said, "the same as all the other rival­l'ins that will be going on." 
Just as in 1968, when Yale was nationally ranked going into tlrn flarvard game, the Bulldogs, 0-7 in Urn Ivy Leagun last soa­son. can share the conference title with a win iJ' Penn loses to Cornell. llarvard is the dnfond­ing champion. 
Whilo tlrn Ivy L1mguc has lust its luster since 1968, Saturday's renewal of The Gamr, still stirs up thn hlood of the alumni of both prnstigious schools. 
And it evokes memories of that game that produced the famous lrnadlinn in the Harvard student newspapcr, "Harvard Beats Vain 29-29," and lef't both teams with a share of the Ivy championship. 
Future movie star Tommy Loe Jones was an offcmsive tackle for Harvard. Future Nf-'L star Calvin Hill was favored Yale's top run­ner. Brian Dowling was its quar­terback in his final collegiate game. 
"It was a disappointing way to end a college career that was very rewarding," Dowling says. "But, on the llip side, !it's nicr.l to be in a game that's rnmem­bered 30 years later. What's the next time Harvard and Yale will onter a game undefeated'? Probably never." 
Yale, which had a 16-gamc winning streak, led 22-0 in the second quarter when llarvard coach .John Yovicsin replaced start.ing quarterback George Lalich with Frank Champi. Still, the Crimson trailed 29-13 with four minutes left in the game. 
"At the end, everything was totally out of our control," says Cozza, who didn't agree with some late penalty calls. "You could almost sense it was going to happen." 

It did. 
Harvard's Bill Kelly recovered the onside kick at the Yale 49. Champi 's 14-yard run and a face-mask penalty put the ball at the 20, but Champi followed with two incompletions. There were 20 seconds left. 
"I asked Cozza ii' I could go in," Dowling says. "I had played safety in high school. As a quar­terback, I understood pass offenses and I considered myself a pretty good athlete." 
Instead, Dowling watched from the sidelines as Crim ran 14 yards and Champi lost two, leaving the ball at the 8 with three seconds to go. 
"It starts like a wave but the initial plays don't seem to be all that significant," Catto says. "You still can see by the score you've got a vague shot and each 
JltBASKETBALL 
C

tM,· Students: 
A·,Jf ,f1J l.,ast Chance <lff-'er 

. 

Basketball season booklets and . ND vs. IU tickets on sale at the 
• 
foil owing locations-Nov. 18-South Dining Hall Nov. 19-North Dining Hall 
• 
Nov. 20-South Dining Hall (10:00am -2:00pm) 
• 
Season Tickets-Only $44 
ND vs. IU-$8 
• 
Pick up your booklets ... must show your student ID. 
Ci\­
Enemy of the State R 

: • • Students •Seniors 
r1:001 4:oo 7:oo 9:40 

Enemy of the State R 
Antz PG 

["11:00 ·1:50] 4:45 7:45 10:30 
[·2:15] 4:45 6:45 9:00 

[· 12:40] 4:00 7:00 9:45 Something About Mary R
Rugrats G 
[*2:00] 4:30 7:15 9:45 

-
("11:15 '1:301 3:50 6:15 8:30 
r·12:oo ·2:101 4:30 s:45 9:oo 
American History X R 
['11 :30 ·2:15] 4:50 7:30 10:05 
Meet Joe Black PG· 13 
["11 :10 ·12:15. 2:50] 4:10 6:50 

$1 00 All Shows Before 6pm
ONLY 

• Everyone • Everyday l Still Know What You Did... R 
8:00 10:00 (Fri-Sat. only) 
$1.50 All Evening Shows ;J c. 

[·12:10, "2:4515:15, 8:05 10:40 
I'll Be Home For Christmas PG 
Blade R 

1·11 :50 "2;20] 4:35 6;55 9:10 
[*1:30] 4:20 7:10 9:40 The Waterboy PG-13 
, Holy Man PG 

['11:45 "12:30 ·2:00 '3:00] 4:25, 
[*1 :50) 4:30 7:00 9:30

5:30 7:10 7:50 9:30 10: 10 . 
' Simon Birch PG

The Wizard of Oz G 
[*2:10] 4:50 7:20 9:45 The Siege R . Air Bud 2 G 
("11:20 '1:45]4:15 6:30 8:50 
[" 11 :35 • 2:201 5:oo 7:40 10:20 
[*2:20) 4:40 6:50 8:50 

Antz PG 
Dr Doolittle PG-13 

1·12:20 '2:30] 4:40 6:40 9:15 
[·1:40] 4:10 6:40 9:00

P!easantville PG-13 
. Armageddon PG-13 Rush Hour PG-13 
['1-20]4:20 7:15 9:55 
["2:00] 5:00 8: 10 
play just builds that wave." 
Gatto, who returned for Uw 
final series after missing most o!" 
the game with a hamstring 
injury, ran to the left. Champi 
rolled righl and lirnd across tho 
field. Gatto caught the ball in the 
corner or the end zone with no 
time remaining. 
"When I caught the ball, my immediate feeling was to get away from the half-dozen fitns that tack!fid me and got back to the huddle to talk about a 2­point conversion," Gatto says. 
Harvard ran a play with Gatto and Varney crossing, and Champi connect11d with Varney just inside the ond zmw. 
"We had run the play on that pass interference after the previ­ous touchdown," Vanrny says. "It was like tlrn field had tiH,id dramatically to one sicle. It's like we were going downhill and they wero going uphill." 

Circle KHosts Fr. Bill Wack! 
Fr. Bill Wack, CSC will give a brief lecture on the virtue of service at the Circle Kclub meeting this Sunday, November 22, at 7PM in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium! 
~All ilre welcome to attend~ 
Notre Dame Circle K 
['12:so "3:15I 5:40 s:10 10:35 
Tmes in (brackets] Satulday and Sunday Matinee my

~M:1ki11g ;1 differe11cc in the South Bl'11d co111111w1ity~ 
Now! Students and Seniors s4_00 Anytime 
at tt\4 Showplace 1611nd Town & Country theat,.• 

! 
t 
I I 
I I 
I I I 
I I I 
I 
I 
I I 
I! . I 
I 
-
-
Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 
360° Stadium Theater • Training Center • Pigskin Pageantry • Hall of Champions 

• Strategy Clinic• Bowl Games & National Championships• Great Moments 
FOOTBALL PREVIEW AT THE HALL OF FAME! 
Sponsored by the Knights ofColumbus, Council 553 
Friday, November 20, 8:30 P.M. at the College Football Hall of Fame Press Box 
Guests Include: 
Tony Rice-Quarterback, 1988 National Championship Team, University of Notre Dame 
Frank Pomerico-Captain, 1973 National Championship Team, University of Notre Dame 
Mike Enright-Assistant Sports Information Director, University of Notre Dame 
And a special guest from LSU, TBA 
Football history, trivia, door prizes, and the latest information on Notre Dame and LSU. 
The world's most exciting and interactive sports Hall ofFame is just a FREE SHUTTLE ride away! 
Shuttle Hours & Schedule: Shuttle will run from 12 noon-8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall on Notre Dame Ave. 
NOTREDAME HALLOFFAME 

to Hall of Fame 

to Notre Dame 
12:00 NOON 12:30 P.M. 

1:00 P,M, 1:30 P.M. 

2:00 P.M. 

2:30 P.M. 
3:00 P.M. 

3:30 P.M. FRIDAY 4:00 P,M. 
4:30 P.M, 
5:00 P.M. 

5:30 P.M.
ONLY! 
6:00 P.M. 

6:30 P.M. 
7:00 P.M. 

7:30 P,1\1, 
8:30 P.M. 
1.800.440.~ 
(1.800.440.3263) • http://coUegefootball.org/ • 219.235.9999 
. ...--•w---... 
Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 2.3 
~=--=·-=-=-·-=·=======:::::.::::=======,--------------­

See the insert for complete Notre Dame vs. LSU coverage 



Buy your "Class of 2002" T-shirts starting this Saturday at the Freshman Class Council concession stand outside Alumni Hall. 

The Mark 
of Excellence 
When you stand for excellence you stand alone ... 
The stand-alone interlocking ND logo is only available on the campus of Notre Dame. Look for this and many other exclusive items at any of our campus locarions. We feature the finest in authentic Notre Dame merchandise. 
THE HAMMES 

The NOTRE DAME 
VarsityShop

BOOKSTORE 
On the campus Phone:631-6316 In the Joyce Center Phone: 631-8560 
fOOTIAU HOURS: f-OOTIAil HouRS: Fri: 9am · 7pm • Sot: 8am · 8pm Fri· 9am · 8pm • Sat. 9am 6pm Sun· 9am · 5pm Sun 11 om · 4pm 
Aft~r 1he game, Hop hy The Hammes Notre l>amc Booluto,r in tht llooluwrr­Rnilding or the Vusiry Sl1op in the Joyce Centrr. 
check out our 40 g:,imr~day locaiom or find us on the wc:b .iilt www.ndcatalog.com, 
l·Ur catalog inform~cioo or to order these items by phone, pleas, call, 
800 647-4641. 

¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Sosa tops NL to win first MVP award 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Sammy Sosa insisted all along that Mark McGwire should bn the National League's Most Valuable Player. No one outside St. Louis agreed with him. 
After losing to McGwire in the race for the home run record, Sosa overwhelmed his friendly rival Thursday, getting 30 of 32 first-place voles and 438 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers' Association of America. 
McGwire, who hit 70 homers to Sosa's 66, got the other two first-place votes and 272 points. Two sports writers for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch voted for McGwirc and had Sosa second. 
"I would have voted f"or Mark," Sosa said in Chicago. "In my heart, Mark McGwire is still the man." 
McGwire, on vacation in Australia. praised his rival but didn't say how he would have voted. 
"To put it in his words, today Sammy is the man," McGwire said in a statement issued by the Cardinals. "J-Ie did a great job carrying the Cubbies back to the playoffs." 
As they approached Hoger Maris' old home run record of 61, Sosa and McGwirc became friends. Sosa repeatedly pre­dicted McGwire would get to the record first and often said it was McGwire's year. 
"It's hard to hit 70 home runs and not win MVP," Sosa said. "I was never so sure to myself that I had it.until today." 
But the baseball writers put a premium on playing for a win­ning team, and Sosa led the Chicago Cubs into the playoffs for the first time since 1989. The Cardinals stumbled to a third-place finish in the NL Central, 19 games behind Houston and seven behind the wild-card Cubs. 
Sosa hit .308 and led the majors with 158 HBls, 132 runs and 414 total bases. 
McGwire f'inished with 14 7 HBis and a .299 average, lead­ing the majors in walks (162), slugging p1m:ent.agc (.752) and on-base percentage (.470). 
Sosa's win made thll MVP awards a sweep for Latin American players. 'foxas' .Juan Gonzalez -a former teammate of Sosa's in the Hangers' minor­lnague system and a native of Puerto Hico -won the J\L MVP on Wednesday. 
Everyone back in Sosa's homeland in the Dominican Hepublic expocted him to win. 
He joined George BPII (l 987) as the only Dominican MVP winners. 
"Sosa, This is Your Day," blarnd the lead sports pag1\ of' the newspaper Listin Diario, printed before the vote totals were announced. 
Sosa will go to the Dominican l\(lpublic early Friday morning and meet with First Lady llillary Hodham Clinton, said his agent. Tom Reich. Sosa, who intends to spend about 10 days on the island, has been heavily involved in helping the country recover from llurricane Georges. 
"My reputation outside the field, that counts a lot," Sosa said. "Maybe people took it from there." 
Sosa, given a hero's welcome last month when he returned to San Pedro de Macoris, said his charitable foundation has been involved in distributing food. 
While Sosa was lirst or sec­ond on every ballot, McGwire got 20 seconds, three thirds, one fourth, four fifths, one sixth and one seventh. 

... 
-
--·---·..··--·····-"'·-­
........,......_,.................._ ....ill 
-------·---·---·--­
---'::._~--------·------· ~­
CINEMA AT THE SNITE 

FRI. c.. SAT. 7:30 AND 9:30PM PRESENTED BY ND FILM, TELEVISION, AND THEATRE WWW. NO. E0U/~coTHWEB 


Kara Brown and the Irish hope to continue their dominating defensive effort against the visiting Cornhuskers of Nebraska in the third round of the NCAA tournament. 
Apply for Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. 
Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave 
your name and number or drop off a 
description of your design experience at 
the Observer office in the basement of 
South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior 
preferred. 
-


THE BEIGER MANSION INN 
MICHIANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! 
Voted best entree "Taste ofMichiana", 1998. Big city dining with small town atmosphere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservati,ons accepted. 
We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 
317 LINCOLNWAY EAST* MISHAWAKA * INDIANA 255-3939 
Friday, November 20, 1998 
sophomore boasts a 0.63 goals against average and has
NCAA 
recorded 11 shutouts on the 

continued from page 28 
Nebraska's Kim Engesser, who is fourth in the nation in both goals per gamfl (1.29) and points per game (2.86). Engesser leads the ·Huskers with 27 goals on the season, while her teammate, junior Lindsay Eddleman, has found the net 11 times. 
Karina LeBlanc has been brilliant in goal for the Big 12 tournament champions. The season. 
The Irish, however, are unbeaten in their last 44 home games and are 11-0 at home in the NCAA tournament. 
"I think we definitely have a home field advantage," GPrardo said. "We love to play at home under the lights on a Friday night. There's just something ahout the atmos­phere. So I don't think we'll have any problem getting up for this game." 

Need Cash?? 
$25.00 Today with this A 
and a student I.D. 
----~-------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per 111onth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 IO and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
J::~~=o 

•
ONLY AFEW LEFT!!! 

•
Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 

•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•
December-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent 

•Pre-Leasing 
for Fall of'99 


"The Best V&h.ile ;i1n Off=C&mpUts Hmrrsing'9 
Managed By 
Real Estate Management Corportation 
234-9923 
¦ ¦ 
"As You Wish" 
J1 Imports 


Sweaters, Tapestries, Jewelry, Accessorie6 Great e;election of hemp jewelry and Much More! Guatemala• Bali• Mexico• Brazil• Thailand • India • Ecuador 
HUGE CLEARANCE SALE 
Free gift with every purchase , <offer valid one lime only> 
Unvelievable Bargain Corner! 
•Proceeds from this corner help send 
'

,9 6 Guatemalan children to school. Other Donations Greatly A2r.reciated Lafortune -Room 108, Nov-30-Dec. 4, 10-5 pm 


P""'I-----------~---------~----------,---------·------~-------------­
Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 25 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
... 
BCS system plus playoffs equals winning system 
College Football 
1. 
Tennessee 11. Oregon 

2. 
UCLA 12. Michigan 

3. 
Kansas State 13. Wisconsin 

4. 
Florida State 14. Nebraska 

5. 
Florida 15. Georgia 

6. 
Texas A&M 16. Tulane 


7. Ohio State 17. P.enn,S.,
~.$. St!tte,·fs.•·,j\•, or~, 
·t'' 1Y.~-l0'-"
r •19, ~ i 
ByTEDFOX 
Spom Writer 
Some things in this world just don't mix: oil and water, home­work and Friday nights, college football rankings and universal satisfaction with what they have to say. 
For an example that hiL'> close to home, look al Notrn Dame's 
199:l season, the vear of' the grnat Florida .StaL<l win and Lhe Boston College dnbacle. 
Thal year, despite having the same rncord as the Seminoles and having beat them in hcad-to­head competition, Florida Stale finished No. 1 and the Irish m1decl the season ranked second. 
lluh'! 
And this is just one instance of a problem that we sec in college football every year. You can't go one week or the season without pm>ple saying something to the effect or: "I low did they get ranked thorn?" 
The reason? A bunch or sports writers get together to voto and make up one 

poll whilo all the coaches vote on another. While these writnrs and coaches arc a lot more qualified to make these judgments than any of us arc, there is still a lot of room for personal biasns. 
And then thern's those rumored cases you hear or a coach who, assuming an under­standing with his assistant, allows him to cast the votes. 
Simple 1mough, right? 
It is, until Um assistant decides to vote a liUln dillernntly than he and the coach -who i~ really supposed to hn voting -had dis­cussed. 
Even if this seldom happens, it still does not seem right that writers and coaches, no matter how much U1ey know, should be allowed to ''elnct" a champion. The title of "The Best" should bP determined on the field. 
This year, the powers-that-be took a lai·ge stPp in fixing this problem by establishing the Bowl Championship Series (BCS). 
Basically, a team's BCS ranking is determined by iL-, strength of schedule, the averag1~ of the AP and Coaches' polls, tho average of thrne other polls, and the mun­bor of' losses the team sulfors. 
The BCS is a largo improve­ment bncausn it removes a lot of the individual subjectivity by compiling avnragns of all tlw polls. 
Finally, it sets up a national title game bntwnnn the teams that finish !',;os. 1 and 2, sorrni­thing all of us hav11 brnm longing to see. 
But, in Urn catogory of big sur­prisns, pnople nrn still arguing. 
Tim votes of writors and coach­es still play a big roln, ovnn if it is rnducnd. A team rnally could bn the best but just have a bad schedule. 
Who's to say a loam ranked third or fourth isn't the tnm bost, but just hasn't had the opportuni­ty to move up? 
Like everyone dse. I have my own id!~a on how to lix this ­one that's probably not too origi­nal -but I think it. could work. 
The proposal'? 
Kmip thn BCS in placn; although !lawed, it is thn bnst way to dnt1\rmi1rn rankings. Then, follow tho example of NCM basketball. and every othnr division of rnllege football bnsides 1-A: implenwnt a playoff systnrn. 
Instead of 64 teams. which would obviously never bn foasihln at orw game per wePk, narrow tho opnning pool down to night. teams. Namely, thn top eight ranknd toams in tho country. Just about any tnam with a 1!1gitimatn shot at the title would fall into this pool. 

Next, match the gamns uµ just as tlmy do in baskntball: 1 vs. 8, 2 ... vs. 7, 3 vs. 6, 4 vs. 5. Thn last tnam standing wins Urn Lith 
To compensate !'or µlaying a possible three posl<mason !.(llllHlS instead of one, the regular season could be reduced by 0110 game. so only one extra ganm would bn played. 
Some might say this is a brutal finish to the season that no team should hav11 to go through, but if that team really is "The Best". it should bl' up to the challenge. 
We could even knep thrne of the four major bowl games in this playoff series. For example, the Orang!~ Bowl and Sugar Bowl could be t.he two semifinals, and the Fiesta Bowl could be the ehampionship game. Tho Hosn Bowl, or whichevnr one was not incorporated, could be !nil for whatever other dns11rving teams wernn't in the top night. 
Still, I think this idea goes one more step in soldng the problem of determining tlm national champion. OLherwis<', I might one day b(\ picking who this champion is. 
And none of us would want to 

C:li\EM,\l~K IJIL\IIH:S --­

Sl.75 All SHOWS BEFORE 6 PM 
$3,75 SENIORS & CHILDREN &·00 ADULTS STEREO SURROUND SOIJND IN All AUDITOIUUMS 
I Still Know What You Did R 2:05, 3:05, 4:25, 5:25 7:20. 7:55, 9:50, 10:15 
I'll Be Home For Christmas PG 1 :45, 3:50, 5:55, 7:55, 10:05 
The Waterboy PG-13 
1:55, 2:35, 4:05, 5:05, 7:00, 7:30, 9: 15, 9:45 The Wizard of Oz G 2:10, 4:35, 7:15, 9:35 
Apt Pupil R 
2:25. 4:50 Practical Magic PG-13 2:00, 4:30, 7:10, 9:40 
Pleasantville PG-13 
2:00. 4:45, 7:40, 10:20 
The Siege R 
1:50, 2:45, 4:20, 5:15, 7;05 8:00, 9:55, 10:30 Whal Dreams May Come PG-13 2:50, 5:25, 7:50,10:30 Vampires A 7:20, 10:00 American History X R 2:30, 5: 10, 7:45, 10:25 Celebrity A 2:20, 4:55, 7:25, 10:10 
lfl04Yl n~cs ONLY IOUt D,11 ~0YA'ICI TICMIT SJUI >IANDl(AP ACCISIIBLI tkO P~ISII • liO 1v,11111ms 
suzw ecz 

page 26 The Observer• SPORTS Friday, November 20, 1998 
With the way that Ivey and fel­
¦ COLLEGE FoarnAll

low guard Danielle Green have lit
W. B-ball 
up the court thus far, Duke is the
-
team that will have to guarrl the
continued from page 28 
Davie is 'coach of year' finalist 
perimeter tighter to m uff1e the court. In addition to being effective Irish at both ends of the court. 
Observer Staff Report Tulane's Tommy Bowden (9-prepares his players not onlywith the outside jumper, Brm,\ne's "If they can do what they've 
0) for game competition but alsoplay has caught the attention of been doing the first two games," Bob Davie has been named Texas' Mack Brown (7-3) on how to deal with the com­Riley going into this game. pointed out captain Sheila one of the 10 finalists for the Air Force's Fisher DeBerry plex and demanding chal­"She's rnally quick and tough to McMillen, "we'll have a great 
1998 Walter Camp/Street & (9-1) lenges of their non-athletic
get out of the paint," said Riley. defense to get our offense going." 
Smith's Coach or the Year Arkansas' Houston Nutt (8-1mdeavors."
While Browne wasn't able to Green is coming off of back-to­Award. l) The 10 finalists were detrr­capitalize last season against back career-high 23 point games Davie has put together a UCLA's Bob Toledo (9-0) rnined through early voting by
Notre Dame only scoring 12 that have kept the opponents 
remarkable turn-around from Arizona's Dick Torriey (10-1 l the 101 Division 1-A coachespoints, her teammate Nicole behind for all forty minutes of last yPar's 7-6 season by lead­The award. which was first and sports information direc­Erickson was able to find room aU play. Ivey's similar early-season ing the Irish to a 8-1 record awarded in 1967. recognizes a tors in a balloting conductededge hac; earned her the season'sgame long to amass a game-high and a no. 10 ranking in both coach who is an "effective and by the Walter Camp18 points. She also hit six of first Big East player of the week 
the AP and the coaches poll. compassionate coach, who Foundation.
Duke's seven three-point goals in honors. But the real edge this duo 
He joins nine other front 

the contest, being able to find the has given Notre Dame is the ability 
runners in early voting: 

to step up and shut down an
room to shoot unchecked. 
Kansas State's Bill 
"La.'lt year [Erickson I hit a bunch attacking opposition. 
Snyder ( 10-0)

of threes in the game," comm(1nt­"I've worked really hard in the 
Tennessee's Philip

ed junior guard Niele Ivey. "This preseason to be a leader," com­
Fulmer (9-0)

time, we have to know where they mented !vey. "It r;;ally has worked 
Wisconsin's Barry 

are on the court al all times." so far this season. 
Alvarez (9-1) 

La.Pointe and 6-foot-7 sopho­of reach early, but if not, 
more Mike LeBlanc in their Notre Dame must then match 
starting lineup. the Commodores' strong fin­
continued from page 28 "They've also got to stop us," ish. 
said Hickey. "Their two main The all-time series with trawl to Nashville for a meeting scorers are underneath, but Vanderbilt is tied 2-2, but the with Vanderbilt (3-1 ), the last we've got other guys on our last time the two teams met, stop before their Thanksgiving bench, guys like Harold and the Irish emerged with an 81­trip to the Carrs Great Alaska Hans, who are good players too." 65 victory in the 1989 NCM Shootout and a nationally tele­Vanderbilt also has a tendency tournament. vised date with Duke. to start slow, having come from It may not be tournament 
With a tough road ahead, behind in all three of their victo­time just yet, but for the Irish, Notre Dame is looking for a solid ries this season. A l'ast start f'or every game carries f)qnal game against tlrn Commodores. the Irish could put the game out weight. Consistency and composure will be key in the early going, if the inexperienced Irish hope to han­dle the rigors of the Big East conference season. 
"We're focusing on defense because defense can keep you in a game evt•n when you're st1·ug­gling offensively, like we did in the first two games," Hickey said. 
Vanderbilt presents a formida­

ble opponent for Notre Dame, 
especially with an undefeated 
mark on its home floor. Forward 
Dan Langhi leads the team with 
17 points and five rebounds per 
game. The 6-foot-11 junior 
anchors a tall trio underneath, 
as the Commodores also boast 6­
foot-1 O sophomore Greg 
M. B-ball 
Women's 
There wilFbe· /Iii 
boxing spring 
info:r:matiqp.al tnE,t 
vetel"au's and 
nov.ii:.~:Qri>s:i>ec. ~.>~ 
in the boxing r 
stairs in the Jo 
i'Y ·
Any que··' 
ERASMUS BOOKS 

• 
Used books bought and sold 

•25 
Categories of Books 

•25,000 
Hardback and Paperback books in stock 

•Out-of-Print 
search service: $2.00 

•Appraisals 
large and small 


Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 



All Shows Before 6 pm Everyday! 
s~~T1tJ:tA~E
$100 
Scottsdale Mall• South Bend • 299-6063ONLY • 
stso Evening Shows FREE HEALL on Popcorn &Soft Drinks! :f 0. 
[lllaJJD]
l!f??iiM.51 @J 4:40 6:50 8:50 

Sat,Sun matinee 2:20 
BLADE 
WESLEY SNIPES (ID 
4:20 7:10 9:40 
S~o.·N 
(Eg).t:Sl.RCH Unforgeuable! 

4:50 7:20 9:45 Sat, Sun matinee 2:1 O 
ARMACtDDON 
STAR.RI NC (E[]1j 
BRUCE WILLIS 
5:00 8:10 
I)IJ II) lllIll //I II Ill llJI IU I
HOLY 1MAN 

EDDIE MURPHY JEFF GOLOSLUM (!g) 4:30 7:00 9:30 Sat, Sun matinee 1:50 
DR.B 
DOLITTLE 
EDDIE MURPHY 
4:10 6:40 9:00 

triday, November 20, I998 The Observer• TODAY page 27 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sean Young, Veronica Hamel, Bo Derek. Robert F. Kennedy 
Happy Birthday: It wiU be neces­sary to bid_e your time and tighten your belt 11 you have been doing thmgs on too grand a scale. If you can backtrack a bit and separate what is and what isn't necessary anymore, you will find yourself moving in the fast lane once again. Your good I uck and your easygoing nature will win you the favors you need in order to recoup any past losses and regain a strong hold 1n your chosen arena. Your number are 8, 19, 28, 31, 37, 49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Ro­mJnce is in the air. Make arrange· ments to see that special person. Secret encounters are likely. A 5corp,o or a Pisces will entire you. Be careful not to reveal too much personal information. 00000 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-

\ RE-ENTER. 
'1
\ 
" ' 
\ 
' 

DILBERT 
TH/\ N K YOU ALL FOR l"\A."t'BE WE COULO COM ING TO THE R.AI5E r55UE$ AND l""\EEitNG TH~T Hi\$ THEN FORI"'\ ACTION NO REAL PURPOSE. PLA.NS. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Hemming and 59 Montreal hawing denizens
1 ---World Service (radio 
34 Charles Lamb, 62 Distance on a to readers radar screen

provider) 63 Peter Lorre rote 
36 Exhibits scam 

4--Pet 
Mr.-­

(novelty item) 37 Rot caused by bark beetles 
64 Deception8 "My Life on 65 AustralianTrial" author 40 Renaissance exporttype13 Mine product 66 Effect of auto 41 Course14 Dog: paw.: 

exhaust horse· ---42--Alte 
67 Actor Mineo (Adenauer)

15 Lacking, with "of" 43 Pulsate 
44 Zorro ·s mari<s DOWN

16 High-risk game 46 Leg bones 19 Plan 
1 Tennis's Becker 50 Message on a

20 ·-to ditter" 2 Mam thrust 
Wonderland 

21 Coral-3 Jai alai basket 
cake 4 Showy-flowered22 Gaze 54 Pac.'s 

shrub23 Kind ol acid counterpart 

5 1956-57 

25Dumb--ox 57 Beach. 
Wimbledon 27 Republican champion Lew 
basically V.IP. Dick 58 Farmer's land 6 Charged particle 7 Pertaining to ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE the second­


Puzzle by Ed Early 
largest continent 
28 "Canterbury a Good herder Tales" drink 9 First lady 
29 Gaelic 10 Plenty 
30 North Sea 11 Miller beer feeder 
12 Brainstorm 
31 Handle text 1s Piece for two 

32 Dr. Westheimer 33 Hollywood Boulevard sight 35 Electric guitar 
hookup 36 Location 38 Congeal 

39 Stupor Waughs 45 Hindu garment 26 One of the 
living quarters. Luxury items will cost more than anticipated. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Make sure that you aren't evasive about your intentions. You can be easily misinterpreted, Don't let peers inilu­ence you in affairs of the heart. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Ro­mance will develop through business contacts. Be careful and use discrimi­nation. Difficulties with children mav be upsetting. You must have open communication with them. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Channel your energy into pleasurable events. Someone may want to start an argument with you. If you stay calm and refuse to accommodate them, you'll turn their mood around and avoid a lot of grief. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-0ec. 21): The possibility of an ideal love rela­tionship will be present. Re~valuate your motives before you make your move. Take time to reorganize your home.000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-jan. 19): Join clubs that will bring you addi­tional clout. Romantic involvement will develop through your newfound friends. You can enhance your repu­tation by contributing knowledge. 

....
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Romantic encounters will develop through friends and relatives. The intimacy of the connection will be somewhat unnerving but intriguing at the same time. Follow your intu­ition. 0000 
PISCES {Feb. 19-Much ZO): Take heed of the advice given regarding your newfound friends. Secret infor­mation may be divulged if you have put your trust in someone who is unreliabl<' 00 

RE·ENTER. 
ANYoNE Fox. 
I kNOW. \
1 
SCOTT ADAMS 
.; r-:;-.:_-_-_-.:_-_-_-_-_----------, 
E 
! HIWE 
THAT'$ 
.~ 
f\N URGE 
NOT VERY
~ 
;:; 
TO STOl"\P 
PR.O!='ES-.
. 
•. , 
'<OU TO 
5IONAL Of 
u. 
DEA.TH_ 
~ou_
" 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): New romantic encounters will develop if you refrain from bemg overly opin­ionated when dealing with organiza­tions. You can easily damage your reputation with words, 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Do not make rash decisions regarding your job. Although it's tempting, if you pursue a romance with a co­werker you wilt lose grace in the eyes ot superiors. Colleagues may lead you astray. 000 
CANCER (June 21-july 22): This is a great day to relax and pamper yourself. Don't be coerced into dubi­ous financial ventures. Be conserva­tive and refrain from making hasty decisions and overexerting yourself. 
000 

LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): New ro• mantic partners or friends will take rour mind off other problems. Do not make unnecessary changes to your 
!
.. 
:, 


Wanted: Reporters and photographers. 
47 Scornful cries 54 Opposite of a 

Join The
buzz cut ending 55 Pitfall 49 Monroe's 56 Moon of Jupiter successor 5860's-70's 51 Dabbling ducks Japanese P.M. 
48Co. name 

Observer staff. 
52 Craze so Zilch 53 Collectible Ford 61 Robespierre, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75t per minute) 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last SO years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 


..... 

¦ Hockey team starts ¦ The Irish host LSU weekend seeking in the final home game revenge. of the 1998 season. 
-
p.17 see insert
PORTS 
O 
THE 



'Huskers hope to unseat 4th ranked Irish tonight 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assiscanr Sports Editor 
The fourth-ranked Notre Uame women's soccer team (20-2-1 l continues the road to the National Championship tonigh\ with a third-round NCAA tournament game against 13th-ranked Nebraska (17-3-1) at 7:30 p.rn. at Alumni Field. 
The Irish advanced with a 3­0 blanking over No. 18 Michigan in the second round and now the 'Huskers serve as the next possible roadblock. 
Notre Dame is riding an eight-game \Vinning streak, including a victory over Connecticut in the Big East Championship game. 
The Irish have been on a roll and are playing perhaps their best soccer of the season. 
"I definitely think we're play­ing well right now," senior for­ward Monica Gerardo said. "We struggled early, but our conlidence is up now." 
Co-captain Shannon Boxx and Gerardo have both stepped up their play in recent weeks. The two seniors combined for all three goals in last week's victory over the Wolverines: Boxx had a goal and two assists. while Gerardo scored twice, raising her school-record total to 72. 
¦ Woua"sBAslnaMl 


Duke comes to town to upset 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 

With a grueling start to their season, the Irish could not have hoped for bet­ter results to get the momentum going. 
After setting an early tone for their season with an upset win against No. 6 UCLA, the Irish rolled over Butler on Wednesday 71-60. With a 2-0 start on the early season, the Irish hope that is the spark that will grow into fire against the Duke Blue Devils. 
Duke, which began the season ranked No. 4 in the polls, opened its season and fell behind 1-2. Its latest loss came Wednesday night in the home opener against unranked Virginia Tech. 
Despite Duke's slow start, the Irish are not ready to let their guard down. 
"We're looking for [Duke] to come out strong," said Notre Dame center Huth Hiley. "After losing their first two games, we know that for them, win­ning this game is crucial." 
A year ago, Duke played the same starting lineup it possess this season to hand the Irish their first loss of the season, 80-62. Because of that, the Irish know exactly where the Blue Devils stand when they take to the Joyce Center hardwood. 
Duke's biggest threat comes from the player that best describes their gameplan varied. Junior forward/guard Peppi Browne has come ofl' of two excellent seasons and posses a threat from all angles of the 
--
see W. B-BALL/ page 26 

nt
.,'Ce. 
....... Wycheknow !heir roles ..· ''p-petf up wilh· a, ing,:trey Jn. ganio'.icl~•Y, recogni-1:fng_'. lack ofheight. has·· 
of:f:uril troliltle. "' · tialto 
-aves, 
rd 
,y 
vs. Louisiana State . at Vanderbilt
SPORTS 

Saturday, I :30 p.m. Saturday, 7:30 p.m . NCAA Championship 
.
D 
2nd Round
ATA 
vs. Nebraska 

vs. Western Michigan vs. Duke 
Tonight, 7:30 p.m.

Tonight, 7 p.m. Saturday, 7:30 p.m.
GLANCE 

L__ 

''88 <C:HAMPEONISE-HP HUSH EXCHANGJE: ROSTERS HUSH ENSIGHl' lfHIE INIAlrEOINI PAGll l'AGl:l P'AG1ES f'AGE6 ll"N:.IE 7 
page 2 
ROAD TO THE 
NOTRE DAME VS. RICE 

By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Irish fans got the first glimpse of why Haghib Ismail earned the nickname the Rocket back in eighth grade. 

team successfully defend its number-one ranking. "He has outstanding speed and tal­ent." 
Ismail flashed his break­away speed and, in the process. emerged atop the leaders in kickoff returns. averaging over 37 yards per return. 
"I have to give crndit where credit is due, and none of it goes to me," Ismail said. "The whole key to tho returns was getting through the first line of blocking, and nobody got a clean shot at me. That is good blocking. I returned kickoffs in high school. but I get all my confidence from the blocking the kick return gives me." 
Notre Dame improved to a perfect 9-0 and quickly ran up the scorr on the 0-8 Owls. Rice's 3-0 lead lasted all of 13 seconds. as Ismail raced to the endzone for the first of his two touchdown returns. 
Notre Dame scored on four of their first five possessions, with a Ricky Watters fumble on the Rice 21 halting the only non-scoring drive. Anthony Johnson and Tony Brooks both found the end zone in the courtesy of Sports Information first half and helped pad the 
Freshman Raghib Ismail returned two kickoffs for Irish lead. 
touchdowns in Notre Dame's 54-11 rout of Rice. The two teams swapped field goals before the end of the half and the Irish found themselves in front. 31-6. The second half wasn't much different, as the Irish served up a little more steamed Rice. 
Hodnev Culver added a touchdown run and follow­ing a Rice field goal. Ismail was off to the races once again and Notre Dame was ahead. 48-9. 
Late in the fourth quarter, Joe Jarosz scored on a six­vard touchdown run to close out the scoring for the Irish and Billy Hackett's ensuing extra point provided the lone Rice highlight. 
The PAT was blocked and returned 85 yards for two points by Billy Stone. mark­ing the first time in NCAA Division T history that the conversion rule had come into effect. 
Fourteen different Irish players carried the ball as Notre Dame amassed nearly 300 yards on the ground. Mark Green led the Irish with 66 yards on five rushes. Quarterback Tony Rice com­Tailback Ricky Watters' fumble on the Rice 21-yard line 

pleted just 3-of-8 passes, but halted the only non-scoring drive for the Irish. 
The Observer• IRISH INSIDER 
The freshman standout burned Rice for kickoff returns of 83 and 87 yards, in the Iri.sh's 54-11 shellacking of the Owls. 
"I thought Raghib lsmail's kickoff returns were crisp," said Trish head coach Lou Holtz, who saw his 
backup Kent Graham filled in nicely, going 6-of-10 for 65 yards. 
"I thought offensively. we played awfully well up front," Holtz said. "I was a little bit disappointed with our ability to execute in our passing game." 
Holtz had nothing negative to say about his defense. Frank Starns, Chris Zorich and Wes 
Pritchett each took turns sacking Rice quarterback Quentis Roper. Michael Stonebreaker led the Irish with 13 tackles. while Jeff Alm and 
D'Juan Francisco each had  an  inter­ 
ception.  
The  Irish  kept  their  National  

Championship hopes alive and also saw the emergence of a "Rocket." 

getv-e,l"/9 /L!}#Przza.T~ /Kick off ~ ND Football ~ * Pajla Predicts 11&... NOTRE DAME 31 



~ ~ lsu24 
We wish Coach Davie, His Staff, and the Team success in 
~l,l!D0 their 1 ~ 11~«tnpaign! 2)Q:0 ~ifl[7'it~ 'Z].;J;J ... 7] '1] ;/;/ Dine-In a , , ~at ND Store 'Zl,;/7] _.;J'Z].;j'Z].
(1827 --Bend Ave.) and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 
•Game/-: r:;1,
I s. ,,. ~ I I 2 " · \,9s I 
1
I 
... ::-299 I
L..:):._ ___ ..J 



Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM 

THE LSU DAILY REVEILLE
IRISH EXCHANGE 
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER FOR LSU 
Tigers' eyes focus on Irish after home loss to 'Barna 
But DiNardo discussed what will happen once the season ends. 
"When this season is over. we need to nvaluate our program, and we need to do whatever we have to to move it in the direction we want to move it in," he said. 
"That program," Williams said, "could regain some luster as it plays a Notrn Dame team on national television." 
"I think it's going to be a great thing," he said. "We'll be on national television. and we could really win some respnct back for LSU with a win." 
This will be the ninth meeting botween the two schools, as both teams enter Saturday with four wins apiece in the series. 
The la.st time LSU played in South Bend was 13 years ago, with the Tigers winning 10-7. For some LSU players, a trip to Notrn Dame Stadium is definitely a mason for excitnnrnnt. 
"I mean, it seems like everyonn's childhood dream is to go to Notre Dame," Winey said. "Back in the days, when they had Rocket Ismail and Jerome Bettis, I always thought. 'Man. I wouldn't mind playing for Notro Dame.' " 
Williams said it is the tradition he is impressed with. 
"Ever since the placo opened, they'vn always had great football teams," he said. "It's just all that tradition." 
Winey said he hopnd the Tigers might use that tradition to get a win Saturday, then follow up with another victory against Arkansas. 
"Hopefully we'll win these two. and may make it to a bowl," he said. "That's our ultimate goal. you know." 
IRISH INSIDER 

EDITOR: KATHLEEN: LOPEZ ASSOCIATE EDITORS: JOEY CAVATO, ALLISON KRILLA ASSISTANT EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, BILI. HART. BRIAN KESSLER DESIGN: MARK DE BOY GRAl'IIICS: PETE CI LELLA 

COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAILY 

RECORD: 8-1 
RECORD: 4-5 
A.P. RANKING: 10TH A.P. RANKING: UNRANKED
THE EDGE • 
Quarterbacks -Even Linebackers .. ND ,----, Saturday will be another chance for Jackson to make a pass at 
Bobbie Howard and Kory Minor are likely to continue as the perfection. Last week he completed 12 straight passes and muscle in the Irish defense. The momentum from the last two finished 12 of 14. LSU's signal-caller will be achallenge though. games should roll over into the LSU match up. Grant Irons 
• . -.• , Herb Tyler has been on target, completing more than 60 percent made apleasant return last week and Lamont Bryant has kept ..., ... ~·.·.. 'II.\. of his 229 attempts and ranking as the 17th most efficient passer up his game too. The LSU linebackers will have atough time 
'8·· 1.in the nation. Neither is more interception-prone than the other. plugging the Irish run. If Notre Dame does not let the tough Jackson's passing has been above average, but it will be his McFarland manhandle their offense, then the Irish have an : running game that evens things up with Tyler's passing ability. edge. 
Running Backs -ND .,Aswiii~¾A;;;':II'Wit1i: ... $ecoocta.rv-.a..sU
...

·.·• ••;,.••• ··•····~-•:-::-:-.:.;;:-___ ;,,.,.,,,,,:. ,,:,»:,;,;,;-,, ~,W-:i::·: 
Autry Denson has broken two records, rushed for 1,050 yards and 
The Irish backfield must be prepared to keep up with the scored 14 touchdowns. LSU's Kevin Faulk is nothing to scoff at, Tigers and their incessant passing. LSU has so far been able to however. The running back has rumbled for 1,077 yards this average 13.3 yards per catch, gaining five yards after each season, averaging 119.7 yards agame -just three more yards reception. They have also racked up 16 passing touchdowns. than Denson. Although Faulk and Denson each pound the turf as The Irish have allowed nine TD passes and let their opponents hard as the other, the difference is the Irish have more than Denso ---.. average more than 200 yards passing per game. Spencer and Goodspeed have each rushed for more than 200 yards, while LSU has only one other runner above 200 yards rushing. 
Receivers -LSU Special Teams -Even 
The Tigers' have been able to get their paws on just about 
The Irish and Tigers are almost identical as far as punt and everything that has come their way this season. LSU's fourth­kickoff return averages and punting yardage. The Irish may ranked receiver, Reggie Robinson, has almost 100 more yards hold an edge as Sanson has made good on 11 of 13 attempts, receiving than Notre Dame's No. 2 man, Jabari Holloway (191 ). while the Tigers' kickers have miscued their boots, going 5-9. Abram Booty and Larry Foster have been highlights in the Tigers' Faulk has a better presence and chance of big returns, as he dim season, pulling down 44 receptions for a little over 600 yards has been more consistent than the Irish returnmen. a piece. If Malcolm Johnson continues to reel in catches like he has been, he could pose athreat in favor of the Irish. 
Offensive Line -ND Coaching -ND 
/,.,,,........------.-........ 
Wisne's knee injury is a big blow to the Irish line, which has 
The Irish have slithered out of some close ones, but Davie has allowed only seven sacks this year. Tim Ridder will slide into the managed to stack up an 8-1 record. On the other side of the quick guard position from strong guard and inexperienced Mike field, DiNardo's squad has spiraled from a No. 6 ranking to a
I 
Gandy will have to battle the Anthony McFarland, who has tallied miserable record of 4-5. Not that the Irish will have problems \ eight sacks single-handedly. The Tigers' weak-linked line has getting pumped up for the last home game of the season, but allowed 16 sacks this season, tilting the scales in favor of the Irish. Davie can always use the revenge factor to his advantage. 
Defensive Line -Even 
,~ LSU's defense has cleaned out opponents· quarterbacks for 26 The Irish are favored by three points, which actually puts the 
... . sacks. They also boast "Booger" McFarland, who has had two odds more heavily in their favor. If it's aclose one, Notre Dame __ · , .. . sacks in agame on four occasions, and Jarvis Green. Each has should be able to pull out awin, having won three victories byt · ;;, ~°" eight sacks this season. Notre Dame has taken down 13 quarter-six points or less. LSU has had the opposite experience, 
-•--. . · 'I•\ backs, and has made some key plays when the pressure is on. allowing four games to slip from their grasp by atouchdown's · i..:' ! Weaver and Williams provide confidence up front for the Irish. difference or less. · • Against Navy, the defense helped cut the top-ranked rushing_-:,...4 team's yardage by more than half. 


By TRAE THOMPSON Sports Editor 

If he had a second chance, LSU football coach Gerry DiNardo probably would have done things differently against Alabama two weeks ago. 
"I would have probably called some different plays in that last series," he said Tuesday at his weekly press conference. "But I don't think that would have necessarily ensured us a victory." 
That's what DiNardo and the Tigers (4-5) will try to get this Saturday at 12:30 p.m. when they travel to South Bend, Ind., to face No.10 Notre Dame (8-1 ). 
Some of the Tigers said it was hard last week to recover from the 22-16 loss to Alabama. 
"I was just shocked," .said offensive lineman Louis Williams. "I was shocked they came back and scored two touchdowns. My jaw just dropped." 
Brandon Winey grimaced when thinking back to the loss. 
"It was very frustrating," he said. "It was hard. It was hard knowing we had our chances, and it was frustrating they got to come back. We've just got to work harder." 
Defensive end Jarvis Green agreed. "It was really hard. but we've got to move on," he said. 
Heading into this weekend's matchup, DiNardo said all of his teams losses so far this year have one thing in common. 
"All those games have come down to who's playing better in the end," he said. They've also been extremely close, prompting some to say the Tigers might be jinxed. 
"It seems like something's going on. you know," Winey said. "Something jinxy or some­thing." 
While most fans would unanimously agree that has not applied for the Tigers. others would also say coaching has played a factor in what has happened this season. 
And some say changes need to be made, which DiNardo bluntly addressed. Photo courtesy of LSU Sports Information "Hight now, I'm not ready to make a comment Kevin Faulk has rushed for 1,077 yards and 10 touchdowns this season. about that," he said. 

page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 20, 1998 
A DIZ2YING PACE 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spans Editor 
This feat stands alone. It stands alone not unly in the mind of Notre Dame fans but in the mind of senior tailback Autrv Denson. 
With all the records that he has broken in the past sea­son, last Saturday's record breaking performance holds a special place in Dcnson's career. He marked the moment with one thing, a football. 
It is Urn only one that he has kept. 
"The accomplishment is a team accomplishment," Denson said. "I couldn't have done it without my linemen, without the defense or without the scout guys that pre­pare us every wcc)k tn go out there and play." 
He shies away from the limelight that has found him over his four years. In fact, Denson never takes any of the credit. 
Perhaps he is the one that deserves it the most. Last Saturday's performance of 107 yards against the Midshipmen of Navy brought his career rushing total to 4,192 yards and broke Allen Pinkett's unattainablP record with two regular games still to play. 
"I mean it is an honor to me just to be mentioned in the same breath with Jerome Bettis and Alan Pinkett," Denson said. "I mean it is just an honor and that is all that I can say." 
"He is definitely one of the biggest assets to this team," senior quarterback Jarious Jackson said. "He is one of the people that keeps this team going. I am happy for him. lie has the Notre Dame rushing record. He is they type of guy that deserves it." 
llis feats do not stop at the career rushing record. Denson is only the second player in Notre Dame history to rush for 1,000 yards in three consecutive years. On 209 carries, he has 1,050 yards, averaging five yards a carry this season. 
"Notre Dame has always run the ball, so to say he's the all-time leading rusher is a strong statement," Irish head coach Bob Davie said. 
"My heart is at running back," Denson said. "I have been blessed \vith the ability to play other positions. I just think more ofmy heart is in it in the backfield." 
It is evident in every game that he plays. Fans could tell that Denson's heart is in his senior season. especially in the opening game against Michigan when he had a 58­yard run on the first play from scrimmage. 
Denson's career has not always been consumed with playing tailback. In his freshman campaign, he played with the special team unit and suited up as a reserve cor­nerback in the game against Northwestern. He made his switch to tailback the following week. 
"At the time, I went and talked to Coach Holtz earlier that week. He told me that the position he was in was that he didn't have any defensive backs," Denson said. "I was kind of versatile so he thought I could make the tran­sition to defensive back. But he assured me that in the spring he would give me a shot at running back." 
The next week, Denson got the shot he needed, gaining 72 yards against Purdue. He proved to Holtz and others that the future of the Notre Dame running game lay with the young Denson. 
In his freshman campaign, he racked up four starts, 695 yards, eight touchdowns and finished third on the team in rushing. 
No matter what kind of performance Denson gives, he does it for the team. Team to him means family -people that you would do anything for. He fits the definition by suiting up every Saturday not for himself but for the members of his team. With his final campaign rapidly drawing to a close, he said after the Navy game that he will be glad to see the hype surrounding the record dwin­dle. When the majority of the spotlight is focused on a single individual. it is hard to maintain a team atmos­phere. 

To Denson. it is not important whether he gets the respect he deserves but that his team receives accolades. 
"lt doesn't surprise me at all," Denson said about the record. "I just felt like I needed the opportunity. Fortunately enough, I was given the opportunity to get the carries to have an offensive line, to have a defense and to just have guys around me that love to play." 
Notre Dame and its fans are grateful that Denson chose to display his talent here, considering who he was court­ed by. The tailback, who currently ranks 12th nationally in rushing, was recruited by the likes of Colorado, 
\uburn, Florida State and other national football power­houses. What captured the heart of Denson was not the foot.ball program but the Notre Dame mystique. 
"I just caine and it was one of those things," Denson said. "I didn't know what I was looking for when I got here. They always talk about how you get that feeling and I got that strange foeling. And 1 decided to come." 
'Tm sure each individual kind of per­ceives things diITerent or looks at differ­ent challenges," Davie said about the comparison between Denson and LSU's Kevin Faulk and Rondell Mealey. "And I think in Autry's case, he's so even-keeled and so team-ori­ented that l doubt that he puts a whole lot of thought into that." 
This weekend's game could prove a crucial game for Denson and Co. It could clear up ,,· the ever iJ evasive bowl \ picture Despite having already broken the record, don't look for Denson to give up any time soon. Currently, he ranks sec-. ond in career rushing touch-,~. downs list with 42 behind none other than Allen Pinkett. \..· . 
_Denson's accomplishments h~ve kept · -....·. • ""·i,.,'
his cup overflow1ng almost smce the .·. ' minute he stepped on campus. While a ·.· ..· majority of the records have been bro-•·. ·,·· · , ken, he still is in pursuit of another fjvictory for the team. ·· · . 
"As a senior you realize that it is the last go around of the season," Denson said. "You just look for your seniors to be more vocal, more assertive than ever because they do realize that it is winding down." 
Denson and the team have a saying that every Saturday they never know who is going to step up but they know somebody will. Last Saturday's game, Denson stepped up to meet his challenge. Now he wants noth­ing more than to pass the torch on to one of his teammates. 
Once the spotlight fades and Denson graduates, one thing will stand alone. His new rushing record. 



'­

Vagas Ferguson, 3,472 yards 

Allen Pinkett, 4,131 yards 
andy Kinder,4,ess yards 
. 
~" 
' 


'.~
~r 

George Gipp, 2,341 yards
Tony Brooks, 2,274 yards Autry Denson; 4,192 yar 

FriJay, Novcrnb<:r 20, 1998 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER page 5 


Bob Davie 
CAIUFR RECORD 15-7 AT NOTRE DAME 15-7 AGAINST LSU 1-1 


ROSTER 

No. Na nit• Pos, Ill. Wt. YR I Dl'kl• <..'oopt:r FS 6-3 221 JR 2 lkmny Gudl1t•i1u,-; 5..c; h-2 215 SR 3 Arn•• ll•tti<• Q!3 6-l !YS FR 4 Kory Min<>r OI .B h·I 245 SR 5 A'J,am Sander~ FS 5·11 191 SR I, Maknlm Johnson SE 6-5 215 SR 7 f,uliius jal..'ksun QB h-0 220 SR H Eri< Chappell QB b-4 225 JR K Anthony Br,mn,m OLB 5-ll 203 JR 9 Raki Nolsm FL 5-11 178 JR Ill lJt·vl'run 11,upt•r CB 5-ll 187 JR 11 Jay Juhn•on SE 6-(! 187 JR 12 Tony Fish,•r RB 6-1 202 FR 11 Jimmy Frid,1y ILB 6-2 236 SR 14 David Givem; WR 6-0 214 rR 15 Clifford ]l•ffor~ln DB 5-9 165 FR 
II> John Shinisler TE 6·1 250 SR 17 IluntL•r Smith P 6-2 2111 SR IH Joey Gethorall SE 5.7 172 so ll/ Jim S.·rn!'M.>n K 5-9 IR9 JR 211 C.ulo~ Picrn.•-A ntuinl' LB 6-2 2411 PR 21 Javin Ilunter WR 5-11 172 FR 22 J•y Vickl•rs TB n·II 215 JR 
2.1 Autrv llen,on T!I 5-10 2112 SR 24 Ty GllOdc CB · 5-ll -192~ SR 25 Tuny Driver FS 6-2 214 so 21> 1.,,,. l,1layl'tte SS 5.1() 198 JI, 27 Hobbit• i lownrd ILIJ 5-10 232 SR 2H 1Jon,1ld Dyk,"' DB 5-lil 186 FR 2H Mik,• Crndy FS 5-11 200 JR 29 Justin Smith CB 6-2 lHH so 311 Rocky lkiimnn DIJ 6-3 222 FR 31 Eric Him,m CS 5-11 179 SR 32 Terrann.• I Inward RB 6-1 181 RB 32 Justin M,•ko SS 5-11 209 SR 3.1 J;1mic SpL·ncl'r FB 6-1 245 SR 3J Phil Siew,, CB 5-11 188 SR 34 Rnnnil' Nicks ILB 6-1 234 JR 35 David Millc•r K-P 5-11 177 FR 35 l••cint Vukelich FB so
6-() 224 

31, Tom Lopll'nskl FB 6-2 2411 FR JI, Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 37 Rnn lsrnl'i CB 6-0 198 so 37 Kl•vin Rice SS b-0 212 SR 3H Drock Williams CB 5-10 189 so 39 Anthony D,mman OLB 6-] 231 so 39 Chris Leck SS 5-10 195 JR 40 Jason Murray FB 6-1 254 so 40 Bn·nJan Farnell ILi! 5-10 220 JR 41 Joe Fem•r OLB 6-2 231 JR 42 Antwoim• Wellington NG 6-0 261 JR 43 t!ugh Hulm,,. ILB 6-1 212 so 44 Grant lmns OLB 6-5 256 so 45 Ju<>y Goodspeed FB 6-0 241 JR 41> K,vin Dansby 01.8 6·1 228 so 
41> Bi..-njamin Robinson TE 6-2 241 SR 47 Mike McNair FB 6-0 221 FR 4H Johnathan Heb,•rt SE 5-11 202 JR 49 Joe Thoma. ILB 6-2 227 SR 50 David Pavne 0G 6-1 287 SR 51 Tyn.~, Ha;rison LB 6-2 238 FR 53 Lamont Bryant DE 6-3 2511 SR 54 Luke l',•titgout OT 6-6 300 SR 55 Jim Jones 0G 6-3 295 JR 58 Brendan O'Connor 0G b-2 292 JR 62 Casey Robin OT 6-6 300 so 63 Mike Tribe !LB 5-10 220 JR 64 John Mt•r.u1di C 6-3 292 JR 1,1, JW Jordan C 6-(J 289 so b7 John W,1i,;m·r OT o-7 300 SR NI Matt Brennan OT 6-7 295 JR 69 Mike Gandy 0G o-4 296 JR 70 Tim Ridd,•r OG 6-7 298 SR 71 J••rry Wisn,· 0G 6-7 29!> SR 72 Ryan Scarnl,1 OL 6-4 310 FR 73 )<-ff Roehl OL (,-4 287 fl{ 74 RobMuwl C 6-5 295 JR 76 John foa,.,J.tl,• OT o-5 295 so 77 llrad Williams DE 6-5 286 IR 7H Jorll•n nl•,k OL 6-5 310 l;R 79 M1k,• Ro~<•nthal OT 6-7 3(~1 SR 111 l.<•wi, Dawson FL (l-0 185 JR MJ Patrick Revnold, WR 5-11 17<J FR X4 Crrald Mor~"n TE n-3 263 i'l{ M5 Antwon !om-,; NG 6-3 2811 SR l!'i Mark Rttlc• WR 6-2 2111 SR !!I, Dan O'Lt•ary TF. 6-5 2% JR 117 Jab•n Il1>lluway TF. 6-3 254 S(.1 HI! Uobhv Brown Fl. 6-3 194 SR 11'1 John ·Day-Owens TE 6-3 2211 fR <JO Linn• l.e~n,•• NG 6-1 292 JR 91 Noah YilnHook-DruckerDE 6-2 245 JR <12 Adam 1ibhl,• K 5.\1 181 FR 
9] Al Scott DE n-4 282 JR q4 Andv Wisn,• NG 6-3 285 so '15 Ry,1n llnbert, I.B 6-I 235 l•R 9h St.•;rn M,1h,1n DL. 6-3 262 FR '17 Kurt Voll<'rs ,PT 6-7 280 ;;(.1 <J8 Anlhnny Wi1.•avL1r DL 6-3 24'1 FR '18 EricGbsM DT b-4 235 JR lJ'I lason Chin~ DE 6-3 280 JR 
IN THE 
SPOTLIGHT 
THE OFFENSIVE LINE 

The Observer/Liz Lang Jerry Wisne's knee injury, suffered last week at Navy, will keep him out of the Irish lineup. 
With Jerry Wisne's right knee injury, 
the Irish offensive line is going to be 
hurting. 

Tim Ridder will slide into the quick 
guard position from strong guard and 
inexperienced Mike Gandy will have to 
battle the tierce Anthony "Booger" 
McFarland. 

McFarland and Jarvis Green have 
slammed opposing quarterbacks, each 
tallying eight sacks this season. So far, 
their defense has made 26 sacks. 
The Irish offensive line remains 
The Observer/Liz Lang Junior center John Merandi has been a valu­able asset on Notre Dame's offensive line. 
strong, however, having allowed only seven sacks this season. 
The Tigers' offensive line has had a few weak links. Defenders have man­aged to sneak by to register 16 quarter­back sacks. 
Luke Petitgout, Tim Ridder, Gandy and Mike Rosenthal will have to work a little harder than usual to open the gaps for Autry Denson and Jarious Jackson. 
All in all, the game's winner probably will be determined in the trenches. 
SPUTEND 
6-M. Johnson 
14-Givens 
TAILBACK 
23-Denson 
lEFT fAGKLE
12-Fisher 
a4-Pe 
72-S LEl'T GUA 
ruL~ 
33-Spencer 

45-Go odspeed RIGHT GUAR 
69-Gandy 
55-Jones 
RIG~T TACKLE 
79-Rmnlhal 
76-Teasoale 
TIGHT ENO 
87-Holfowar 
86-0'Leary 
TAILBAC~
3-Fauli 
7-Mealey 
FULLBACK 
43-Banu 
36-Barrsca 
~.. ·• 
RIGHT TACKLE 

68-Winey -< 
75-Langley FREE SAFETY 
1-Coopor
TIGHT END 
5-Sanders
85-Klpps

82-Baggett , 
~~t-­
1 
END " 
Weaver 
90-Cliing ~ 1 
ft LSU SCHEDULE 
;$.pt.12 ARKANSAS STATE w42·8 Sept. 19 at Auburn w3M SepOct. 
O@t. Oct. Oct. 

4m 
SEASON AT 
LSU 
Gerry DiNardo 
CAREER RECORD 44-35-1 
AT LSU 26-9-1 AGAINST NOTRE DAME 1-1 
ROSTER

IJI 
No. Namt' Po8. lit. Wt. Cl. 
I Fn.·d Bookl'r CJJ 5-9 189 So, 
2 Brand,,n Oak• CB 5-lt 176 So. 3 Kevin F,1ulk TB 5-IO 192 Sr, 
4 Natt.>Gatt.>S rn 6·0 187 So. 5 Rvan Clark FS 6-tl 18tl Fr. 
t, R~han Davey QB 6-3 227 Fr. 7 Rondell Mealey TB 6-(1 203 Jr. 
8 Mark Roman F5 6-(1 185 Jr. 9 Robert Ortvis CB 5-9 182 Fr. 
HJ L.1Var Johnson TB 6-1 188 Fr. 
11 Michael Hayes SE 6-5 2211 Fr. 12 Kris Kessler PK 6-2 199 Fr. 13 Damit>n James QB 5-11 195 l'r. 14 Hl'rb Tyler QB 6-tl 2113 Sr. 15 Walter Morcliam tLII 6-tl 222 Fr. 16 Craig Nall QB 6-3 2.11 Fr. 17 Bubba Alexander ILi! 6-2 212 So. 18 Clarence LeBlanc 55 6-3 200 Jr. 19 Chris Cummings CB 5-9 1811 Sr. 21 Raion Hill 55 6-I 201 Sr. 22 Larry Foster Fl. 5-10 190 Jr. 23 Jeremy Witten I' 5-10 170 Jr. 24 Michael Stamps CB 5-11 175 Jr. 25 Josh R,-ed T1l 5-11 197 Fr. 25 Danny Whl>t.•land rn 6-2 210 CKS 26 Corey Gibbs I' 6-0 2113 Jr. 27 Damien Woods CB 5-IIJ 186 Jr. 28 Bryant Senti WR 5-9 184 Sr. 29 Terrence O'Bryant ss 6-4 2118 Fr. 30 Solomon Lee FD 6-1 226 Fr. 31 Shane O'Toole CB 5-11 172 Fr. 31 Isiah Franklin SE 6-0 183 Jr. 32 Kendall Cleveland T1l 6-1 228 Sr. 33 Nemessis Bates Fl. 5-10 198 Jr. 34 Willil' Elia~ FB 6-(1 245 Fr. 35 Charles Smith 11.B 6-2 220 Jr. 36 Daniel Desselll• SE 5-7 160 So. 36 Ricky Burke FL 5-111 180 Jr, 36 Joseph Barreca FB 5-IIJ 255 Sr. 37 Aaron Adams OLB 6-3 225 Sr. 38 Andy Stroup SE 6-3 195 Jr. 39 Broderick Williams 11.B 6-] 231 Fr. 40 Lionel Thomas F5 6-() 190 Fr. 41 Cisco Perkins FD 6-0 213 Fr. 42 Markeith Spears ILB 5-11 239 Sr. 43 Tommy Bank., FB 6-() 249 So. 4-1 Robert Tyler FB 6-0 247 Jr. 45 Jamal Hill OLB 6-2 231 So. 46 Wardell Sykes ILB 6-1 230 So. 47 Reginald Robinson SE 6-1 190 Fr. 48 Joe Wesley 11.B 6-2 233 Sr. 49 Korey Wales FB 5-8 221 Sr. 51 Jason Green OLB 6-1 228 Fr. 52 Thomas Dunson ILB 6-3 232 Fr. 53 Chris Cooper ILB 5-11 2.14 Fr. 54 Kenderick Allen DE 6-6 291 Fr. 55 WillieGray NG 6-1 272 Fr. 56 Jeremy Lawrence O1.B 6-2 220 Fr. 57 Blaine McCorkle SNP 6-1 225 Sr. 58 Adam McConathy OLB 6-3 236 Fr. 59 Jarvis Green DE 6-3 252 Fr. 60 Ryan Hebert 0G 6-4 293 Sr. 60 Wendell York SNP 5-11 190 Fr. 61 S.m Forehand OT 6-6 362 Fr. 62 Tim Donelon OT 6-5 315 fr. 63 Jesse Harmon OT 6-5 306 Jr. 64 John Compton C 6-3 280 So. 65 Ryan Thomassie 0G 6-2 2R2 Sr. 66 John Young C 6-2 279 Fr. 67 Alvin Puckett C 6-3 290 So. 68 Brandon Winey OT 6-7 294 So. 69 Damien Salassi O1.B 6-2 232 Fr. 69 Brandon Small 0G 5-11 282 Fr. 70 Louis Williams OT 6-6 292 So, 71 Al Jackson 0G 6-3 307 Jr. 72 Todd McClun• C 6-2 28!I Sr. 73 Rob Sale ex; 6-2 313 fr. 74 Urad Smalling 0G 6-8 348 fr. 74 Enc Duhon 0G 6-3 327 Fr. 75 Trey Langley OT 6-5 305 So. 76 Bob Wynne OT 6-3 32.'i Fr. 77 Nathan Turner DE 6-1 265 Sr. 7R Dwayne Plprcc 0G t>-2 308 So, 78 Charles llwmds DT b-4 26M Fr. 79 Jason Underwood 0G 6-4 253 Fr Htl Zack P~nd,uvis TE h•h 2.% l•r. Kil P.1lrick Grt.>cOl' PK 5-9 170 So. 81 J,1mal Pack TE h•3 263 Jr, K2 Jason Bag~l•tt TE f>.5 295 Fr 83 Danny lklyd PK 6-0 220 Jr. K4 Christian Chauvin PK <;.J() 17R Fr. H4 Robrrt Wilson PK 5-lll 181 Fr. 8S Ky le Kipps TE f>.5 2.59 l'r. 85 Billy On.~sll'r p 6-3 205 So. 86 Robert R,,yal l'-B 6-5 229 So, 87 Joe Domingeaux TF. n-6 267 So. 87 Urandun Smith 1'/PK 6-2 190 Sr. RS Abram Bootv SE ti-2 185 So. 8. Ed Dangerfield FL {lw4 209 Fr. 911 Willi,• Harvey DE h-4 254 So. 91 Muskingum BnrnL>s NG 6-2 270 Fr. 92 Roshaun Mr1tthcws OL!I 6-4 237 Jr. 93 fhl-"f.) Williilm!-i 01..B 6-J 2.15 Jr. 94 Anthony McFarli,nd N(; 6-1 290 Sr. 95 jtlhnny Mitchl'II IJT 6-5 293 Jr. 96 Byrnn Dawstln DT o-1 323 l'r. 97 Kareem Mitcht!II DT 6-4 271 So 911 Arnold Mlllc•r OLB 64 239 Sr. 

page 6 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 20, 1998 
¦ IRISH INSIGHT 
Davie looks for seniors to lead Irish to finish 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 

This weekend a football team knocking on the door of the top 10 and looking forward to an exciting way to spend its Christmas break welcomes a team with a record its fans and alumni won't accept and are just looking to salvage a season. 
Sound familiar? 
Notre Dame whipped the Tigers 24-6 in Tiger Stadium last November, a victory that helped earn a post-season berth. 
This year, the LSU Tigers have been licking their wounds since the end of September. After starting 3-0 the Tigers have lost five of their last six games. 
With another trip to the Independence Bowl as a post­season possibility for the Tigers, their trip to Notre Dame Stadium will serve as their bowl game. 
LSU head coach and Notre Dame alum Gerry DiNardo's only good memory about this season will be if he can do to the Irish what the Irish did to his squad last year. 
There's just one thing stand­ing in DiNardo's way. 
Make that 21 things. 
Those 21 things form one of the stronger senior classes in recent years. 
"Let's face it, we've got a tremendous group of seniors on this football team that have been through a lot of different situations at Notre Dame," head coach Bob Davie said. "With the magnitude of this game and the next game being their last regu­lar season game in the LA Coliseum, the motivation and the focus of team lies squarely on the shoulders of these seniors." 
Those shoulders can carry quite a load. 
Davie pointed to people like Mike Rosenthal, who Davie has called another coach on the offensive line. People like line­backers Kory Minor, Bobbie Howard and Jimmy Friday, who put together one of their best efforts against the always-pesky wishbone that isn't much fun to play against. 
People liko all-timo leading rusher Autry Denson, who cursed himself after a fumble at half-time. 
People like Jamie Spencer, who offered to become a part of any special teams. People like Benny Guilbeaux, who came back after injury to find his starting role taken by an under­classmen, but who has still come out to play some of his best football and aid in Tony Driver's development as a play­maker in the secondary. 
"The point is they bring out the best in each other and that's important to me," Davie said. 
After his squad's 30-0 loss i.o the Irish, Navy coach Charlie Weatherbie admired the type of team the Davie has put together. 
"This was the best team we have played all year," Weatherbie said. "They are playing with a different attitude. It used to be you would see a guy taking a down off every now and then. They do not do that." 
Coaches would like to instill that "different attitude" in their team, but it takes more than just coaches to do it. It takes leadership from within the 
team. 
~Right now its in the hands of the seniors," Guilbeaux said. "We've prepared in the off-sea­son real well and the pre-sea­son real well, right now its just in the seniors hands." 
Said Denson, "When you're a senior you realize it's your last go-around, you're a little more vocal, a little more assertive. Jt's our time." 
The seniors time started fur­ther back than a shocking sea­son opening win over the 
'THIS WAS THE BEST 
TEAM WE HAVE 
PLAYED ALL YEAR. THEY 
ARE PLAYING WITH A DIF· 
FF.RENT ATTITUDE.' 
CHARLIE WEATHERBIE 
NAVY HEAD COACH COMMENTING ON THIS YEAR 's /RISH SQUAD. 
defending champs. It started further back than the start of fall camp, it even started fur­ther back than the beginning of spring ball back in March. 
"In a lot of people's eyes they look at it as the seniors times now, but it's been the seniors time ever since we walked off the field Dec. 28 against LSU," Spencer said, referring to the Independence Bowl 27-9 loss to the Tigers. "We've taken over and we've set the standard to where we go out and work as hard as we could in the off-sea­son. We got: better in a lot of areas, we addressed some con­cerns on our own, then we got to camp, and it wasn't a ques­tion of who was running this team. Even though coaches make the calls it was up to us to set the standard and set the tone with every practice." 

This Saturday those senfors will make the trip up the tunnel for the final time, riding an eight-game winning streak at home. 
"To be undefeated at home your senior year is a huge accomplishment," Davie said. "Especially since your first game you lost to Northwestern in that Stadium." 
The seniors aren't looking at the emotions of this being their final time under the shadows of Touchdown Jesus or the last time saluting the student section after the game. The seniors even voted unanimously not to conduct any senior recognition at the pep rally tonight. The main reason was to not distract the team from the task at hand. 
"It's going to be emotional because it's our last game play­ing with the senior class and we're like brothers," Spencer said. "But we know that our mission isn't complete and I don't think this game is going to be as emotional as if we're able to put ourselves in position to play for all the marbles at the end of the year." 
We haven't heard title talk in a while and although it's prema­ture and would take a quite of bit of luck, this class is on the verge of doing exactly what is was suppose to do when it came to Notre Dame in 1995. Bring Notre Dame back to the elite. 
"We've been here all four vears and we've worked our butts of for four years to do the things we have done," Spencer said. "Now I'm striving to get that other level in terms of my senior year and this team hope­fully being able to run for the national title." 
After that pretty win over Michigan in the opener. the Irish took the autobahn to the top 10, only to plummet the next week. Though the second trip to the top 10 has resembled a gravel road to farmer uncle Bob's farm, it has gotten them there. 
The Class of 1999 has been through, losses to Stanford, Purdue and Northwestern, coaching changes and off the field controversies. LSU and USC are the remairung hurdles to a major bowl and a possible top five finish. 

,"Our class has been tight ever since we got here," Spencer said. "We've been through a lot and that exemplifies what we're all about. No matter what we've been through, it's always us and we're right there. We're going to keep a positive outlook. We're going to do what's best for the team and work hard." 
DiNardo may have the advan­tage of a week off to prepare for the Irish, who are three-point favorites. But Davie has some­thing else working to his advan­tage. 
"I know what kind of senior leadership we have," Davie said. "There's a lot riding on these last two games, but par­ticularly for these seniors. This is a game that I know our team's looking forward to." 


Friday, November 20, 1998 The Observer. IRISH INSIDER page 7 
------------------------------------------------~-------~ 
THE lRISH INS! DER LOOKS AT
EYE ON .. 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION 
FOOTBALL GAMES 

Gators look to snap jaws on Seminoles 
By BILL HART 
AssiS1an1 Spnm Fdiror 


l1ossibly thn most compctitivfi intrastate rivalry mttnrs another chapter this season, as top-fivo powers 1-Jorida and Florida Stc1tn ligl1i it out in a battle with implications that extend far beyond that of braggir.g rights. This weck­Pnd's gamn is more important than evor, con­siclnring that a win for Pittrnr tPam will proba­bly placo them in tlrn Bowl Championship Sorins, whiln a latc-snason loss would be dis­astrous. 
Even though top-rankod Tunnessoe's run will probably deny Florida the SEC champi­onship. that hasn't stoppnd it from dPstroying opponPnts right and left. Following their early s11aso11 20-17 loss in KnoxvillH. Urn fourth­rankml Gators went on a s1w1m-garne winning streak. cappPd by a :B-14 win over confcr­encP cellar-dweller South Carolina last week. 
Part of Florida's success ran be altribut<'d to junior quartf•rback Doug Johnson, who has Ind his team to victory through his strong arm and lightning speed. Despite a personal rift bolween himsolf and head coach Steve SpurriPr, Johnson is leaving his mark in col­lege football. ranking 8th nationally in passing e11iciency. Against the Gamecocks, he con­nnctNI on 23-of-42 passns for 360 yards and 4 touchdowns. Johnson thrnw for 460 vards against Vanderbilt two woeks ago, just two yards shy of the school rncord set last year by Danny Wuorffol. 
Still, thnrn are somn dents in tho Gator armor. on both sides or the ball. Injured tail­back Terry Jackson has hnnn out for most of the season, hampering the Gators' offensive mighl. Also, dH!ensive end \!Villie Cohens is expected to be out for the season with a knoe injury. 
If anything has hurt the Seminoles' chances ut a national title this season, iL has been their season-long quarterback soap opera. Two weeks ago against Virginia, backup quartnr­back Chris Weinke had a season-ending injury when a sack resulted in a concussion. Marcus Outzrm. the replacement for the position, com­pleted 5-of-6 passes for 6 7 yards, but was sack11d lhrne times. His performance was marginally better in last weekend's 24-7 win ovnr Wakn Forest. when he completed 11-of­l<J passes !'or 164 yards, but threw one inter­ception and was pancaked live times. 
Humors out of Tallahassee said that head coach Bobby Bowden intends to start true 
AP TC9P
25 
TEAM 
1. Tennesse (37) 
2. Kansas St. {29) 3. UCLA (4) 
4. Florida 
5. 
Florida St. 

6. 
Texas A&M 

7. 
Ohio State 

8. 
Arizona 

9. 
Arkansas 

10. 
Notre Dame 


11. Michigan 
12. Tulane 
13. Wisconsin 
14. Georgia 
15. Oregon 
16. 
Penn St. 

17. 
Nebraska 


18. Virginia 
19. Missouri 
20. Air Force 
21. 
Georgia Tech 

22. 
Miami 

23. 
Virginia Tech 

24. 
Syracuse 

25. 
Texas 


RECORD 
9-0 10-0 
9-0 
9-1 
10-1 10-1 9-1 10-1 8-1 
8-1 
8-2 
9-0 
9-1 
7-2 8-2 7-2 8-3 
8-2 
7-3 
9-1 
7-2 6-2 7-2 
6-3 
7-3 

freshman Jared JonPs, who was initially slat­ed for a red shirt year. Because of Outzen 's inotfoctiveness in both games, Jones playod sparingly against the Deacons and could start this weekend. 
As for Dan Kendra, the projected No. 1 quarterback for the Seminoles at the start of the season, he intends not to return to action this weekend. In a press conference last week­end. he stated that he was presently at "80 percent mobility" after suffering a major knee injury during spring practice that kept him out for the season. 

The legendary "Big Game" returns for another go-around this season, and once again, the Big Ten title is on the line. The stakes in this battle are about as high as they can get: the winner of this game will probably end up playing in the Hose Bowl this holiday season. 
With national title hopes out of the way, the Buckeyes are forced to revert to their backup plan: win the Big Ten championship and head for Pasadena. Despite holding a 24-9 lead going into the third quarter, Michigan State pulled ofT one of the biggest upsets of the sea-
AP/ 
POINTS 
1,709 1,699 1,618 1,526 1,489 1,361 1,350 1,262 1,127 
1,081 
1,054 
869 
849 
788 754 705 616 528 456 
434 
398 
365 
206 140 
117 
son with a 28-24 upset of top-ranked Ohio State. It was the third time in four seasons tlmt they slipped from the national title hunt in November, the other two times prompted by losses to Michigan. 
Last weekend, Ohio State wasted no time in reasserting themselves, manhandling Iowa 45­14 to get back into the BCS hunt. While the Hawkoyes were able to score on the first pos­session of the game, the Buckeyes scored three consecutive touch­downs and never looked back. 
The two stars for the team were, as usual, quarterback Joe Germaine and running back David Boston. Germaine threw for 319 yards on lhe day with three TDs and no interceptions. while Boston had five catches for 163 yards. Boston is one or only three receivers in school his­tory to collect more than 1,000 yards in a season. along with NFL players Cris Carter and Terry Glenn. The Ohio State defense also had a field day. recording 11 sacks and holding the Hawkeyes to 21 rushing yards on 41 rushing attempts. 

But in order for the Buckeyes to capture the Big Ten crown, they must first get past the current conference leaders, 11th-ranked Michigan. After stumbling to an 0-2 start against Notre Dame and Syracuse. the Wolverines pulled one of the quickest turn­arounds in college football, winning seven straight conference games in an attempt to repeat as Big Ten champs. Their mid-season rally was capped by a 27-0 shutout of then­No. 9 Penn State followed by a 27-10 win over No. 6 Wisconsin. The latter victory secured at least a share of the conference title. but a win by the Buckeyes would give them the Hose Bowl bid. 
In their victory over Wisconsin, Michigan was led by quarterback Tom Brady, who com­pleted 15-of-24 passes for 202 yards, one touchdown and an interception. Tailback Clarence Williams rushed for 121 yards on 21 carries, while flanker Marcus Knight caught three passes for a total of 60 yards. The Wolverine defense also had a fine day, record­ing four sacks while holding the Badgers to 58 rushing yards and just nine first downs. 

No. 13 Wisconsin saw its chances for an undefeated season slip through their lingers at the hands of the Wolverines last week. Heading into that game, the Badgers were looking for their first 10-0 record in school history. Despite the loss, Wisconsin is having a better season than anyone would have thought during the summer, partially due to running back Hon Dayne's performance on the field. Going into this weekend, Dayne has rushed for 11 touchdowns and 1.153 yards. more than 700 yards better than the nearest Badger. Last weekend, however, he rushed for a season-low 53 yards on 17 carries, proving that shutting Dayne down is the biggest key to beaLing Wisconsin. 
The Nittany Lions rebounded nicely from their embarrasing shutout to the Wolverines by posting a 41-10 mauling of Northwestern. While the offense provided most of the fire­works, it was the Penn State defense that saved the day, recording five sacks and three interceptions to clinch head coach Joe Paterno's 31st consecutive winning season. 
While both of these teams have little chance of the conference title, a decisive victory by either team, along with a few major upsets, could give the victor a shot at a high bowl. This is the final game of the year for Wiseonsin. but Penn State will close out the season at home against upset-minded Michigan State, who has upset two top 10 teams already this season. 
IRISH EXPERTS 

Kathleen Lopez Sporrs Editor 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA STATE OHIO STATE PENN STATE 
0 

Joey Cavato 
Aiisociarc Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME FLORI DA STATE OHIO STATE PENN STATE 

Allison Krilla 
Associat(: Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME FLORI DA STATE MICHIGAN PENN STATE 

Bill Hart 
Assistant Sports Ediror 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA OHIO STATE WISCONSIN 

Brian Kessler 
A.!isisranr Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA STATE MICHIGAN WISCONSIN 

Anthony Bianco 
Assisranr Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME FLORIDA STATE MICHIGAN PENN STATE 



page 8 The Observer •IRISH INSIDER Friday November 20, 1998. 

, .......................................................................................... 
•
• Introducing ... 
"Castle Point Select" •
•
•
•
Designed for the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate--Just Compare! • 
Unfurnished or Furnished 
•
• 
LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq. ft), Starting at $457.00 •• • LARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 sq. ft), Starting at $559.00 • •
•
•
•
• Included with rentals--Free full privilege membership to the Castle Point 
• 
Health and Racquet Club including: *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool *3 Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor Basketball *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts 
Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
•27" Stereo Television I 
• 
• 
Cherry Finished Furnishings 

• 
Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker


• 
• All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding 
• Plus Much More 
Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Popular Apartments • -While They Last!
• 
Castle PoiV\t ;Apaf"'tmeV\ts 
l 

argerA
ClevelaV\d @ J.,..ohwood Roads Pts
· rt/s · 

o A\/aifa.bJe 27 
~:~:a:t~-point,com 
Monday-Sa'.ul"day 8 am-6 pm SuV\day l 2pm-5 pm 
I A 










