
Pride at Notre Dame 
Sweet Sixteen 
'You live where?' 
~ Today The Observer special section
• Scene has the inside scoop on the lives 
• Sports gives you the latest Bookstore 
looks at four administrators. see pullout
of the men in Old College. p. 12 
results and schedules. p. 22 

Friday, April24, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 132 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 


Holocaust Project features international experts 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
Bringing together world­renowned artists. theologians, scientists, historians and other experts, the Holocaust Project will conclude its year-long efforts this weekend with an international conference exploring the effect of the Holocaust on all of humanity. 
This conference cncompass­ns nvery imaginable discipline, according to Rabbi Michael Signer. eo-din~ctor of the pro­ject. 
"Thn truth of the matter is that then~ is something here for evnryone. We are trying to make a statement here that the Holocaust didn't take place 

"It transcended the limit of ly on display at the Snite evil that we thought possible Museum, will speak about his and certainly gives evidence of work. Wolin began pho­[going) beyond the limit of tographing survivors with the good with people risking their idea that simply their faces lives to save others," Signer 
International students face unique challenges as they travel thousands ofmiles to join the Notre Dame family 

By KRISTI KUTSCH 
Assistant News Editor 
What is student life at Notre Dame? 
Every incoming freshman asks this question and approaches the campus filled with apprehension and excite­ment. Some sadly leave friends behind and others anxiously await their new­found freedom. 
But a different group of Notre Dame students, which comprises less than two per­cent of the undergraduates on campus, has other fears and worries. This group travels 
· from countries around the world to attend college in South Bend. More than 600 international students from 80 countries currently study at Notre Dame, according to Maureen Fitzgibbons, director of international student affairs. At the undergraduate ·level alone, 40 countries are repre­sented by over 125 interna­tional students. Notre Dame hosts 19 under­graduate students from 
Panama, more than any other country. Canadian students are the second largest group, with 17 currently studying at Notre Dame. Other countries with high representation among Notre Dame under­graduates are Malaysia, Singapore and Ecuador. 
Fitzgibbons accounted the concentration of students from these five countries to academic scholarships and long-standing relationships with the University. 
"We have a long-standing relationship with Panama and Ecuador because of the strong Catholic connection, and many students from Malaysia travel here on business-spon­sored scholarships in engi­neering and science," Fitzgibbons said. 
Although some students choose to attend Notre Dame based on its academic and athletic reputation, others are recruited by the admissions office. 
Steve Grissom, associate director of undergraduate 
see INT'L I page 6 
Saul Friedlander, a survivor and historian of the Holocaust, will open the conference Sunday at 1:30 p.m. with his presentation on history and memory. Friedlander visited Notre Dame last semester as a scholar-in-residence with the Holocaust Project. 
After Friedlander's lecture, four Holocaust experts will respond in a 3:20p.m. session. 
That evening, Jeffrey Wolin, whose photography of Holocaust survivors is current­

in just a secular environment," he said. "This conference' is future oriented. We want to see what we now know and where we can take it in the future." · 
The organizers chose the 
conference title, "Humanity at the Limit: The Impact of the Holocaust Experience on Jews and Christians," in the hope of emphasizing that the events of the Holocaust revel truths of humanity. 
said. 


see HOLOCAUST I page 8 

Alumni Senate convenes for yearly session 
Directors of 140 alumni clubs nationwide gather on campus for meeting 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Editor 
Alumni from all over the world will descend on campus this weekend for a series of information sessions, meetings with students and workshops. 
The Alumni Senate meeting, a yearly gathering of 140 alumni club directors, coincides with the spring meeting of the Alumni Association Board of Directors which also takes place on campus this weekend. 
Alumni attend the senate as a way of training and motivating them for involve­ment in the clubs when they return to their home grounds. 
"They meet with all of the regional direc­tors and have a chance to collie together and talk," said Mary Pat Beat, the editor of alumni publications. "Besides that, they attend presentations about continuing edu­cation, community service and other aspects of alumni clubs." 
Last night, the senators attended a club awards dinner during which one club was designated as Club of the Year. 
Over the course of the weekend, the par­ticipants will also be able to meet with cur­rent Notre Dame students during the course of the weekend. On Saturday, the Alumni Association has invited the all students to a "picnic" in the Joyce Center from noon to 2 
p.m. Each region will have its own table with the alumni senators from that area, so that students can easily find alumni from their area. 
The senators will also meet on Saturday with the 1998 Summer Service Project stu­dent volunteers who will be going to their areas for the eight-week-long projects. 
"While there is a chance for alumni to interact with students, it is not the main point," Beal said. "The main idea of this is to gather information for the alumni to take back to their clubs." 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Here coflle the fllen in black ... 
The "TelcTrecc News" Michelle Krupafrom Santiago began last 
Senior SrafTWrirer 
Thursday night with the ollidal logo of the Summit of the Americas -a brightly colored red and blue number "2," underscoring the importance of thn second hemisphnric confnr­ence hosted last week by Chile. 
Thirty-four countries sent their most impor­tant politkalleaders-presidents, secretaries of state and first ladies -to discuss issues of global significance induding poverty, econom­ies, education, justice and civil rights. 
After the numeral disappeared from the scrnen. the song "Men in Black," playing in English, became the newscast's main attraction. The tune provided music for a video dip of Sncret Service agnnts filing out of Air Foree One· into long, black Cadillacs, leadPrs of a parade whose gunst of honor was none other than William Clinton. A reporter interrupted the music to give important facts about the presi­dent's trip-the size of his plane, where he would be staying and the length and route of his trip to and from the airport. 
The next news clip showed footage of Clinton and Chilean president Eduardo Frei walking through a Santiago neighborhood, waving at children who in turn waved American flags. The dip continued with interviews of waitresses in a diner where Clinton stopped for a Coke. The women held a dirty glass up to the news cam­eras in homage, for it was the glass from which Clinton had drunk. One excitedly mentioned that she was allowed to take his order. They all gasped about this kindness and said he was "just so handsome." 
The news then jumped back to the studio, where the broadcaster had yet another Clinton story. Apparently the president had visited a school while downtown and had to use the bath­room. The janitors were astounded when the leader entered the facility and used a ·normal stall, not the one especially cleaned and disin­f,~cted for his particular use. Their statements reflected how they thought that the action was so "normal" and the oddity a man at his level acting in such a regular way. 
Finally, the broadcast skipped to an economic consultant who began to speak about the Summit. She discussed the talks and resolutions that had gone on between leaders of all 34 countries. Clinton was not in attendance, she noted, because a special economic commission­er had come from the U.S. to serve in his place. This seemed a mediocre treatment of a confer­ence at which most, if not all, other presidents were in attendance. 
The next day, in the middle of a soap opera, the very same news channel broke to a live broadcast of the Clintons boarding Air Force One for their trip back to the U.S. The reporter noted Hillary's choice of a pant-suit as traveling garb instead of a dress, and hoped that the cou­ple would turn toward the press to give one last gesture of thanks and salutation to the people of Chile. !lis wish came true. 
Now, despite the fact that hundreds of international leaders converged upon Santiago last week for a conference that will have impli­cations across the glob1~. newspapers, radio and TV stations predominantly concerned them­sPives with the eating habits and daily motions of "Clinton in Chile." 
One wonders if the South Bend NBC affiliate cut into il<; "Mad About You" rerun to catch a glimpse of the leader of the free world returning to his home country. I'm guessing that Paul and Jamie won out on that one. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TooAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Laura Perelle  Sarah Dylag  
Tim Logan  Krisri Klirsch  
Sarah Hilrz  Graphics  
Sports  Dave Piening  
Camille Firzparrick  Production  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Liz Lang  


Tile Obsorvcr (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a mc:mber of thC' Associated Pres:,. All n:produccion rights are reserved. 


Friday, April 24, 1998The Observer • INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Students call for removal of student body president-elect 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
"Florida Blue Key or not. John 
UF administrators were lured out of McGovern is still liable." said Salt, their offices during the lunch hour shouting into a television camera as Wednesday by loud chants and blar­some administrators flowed out of ing car honks. Tigert Hall and others peered from 
"Ethics in, McGovern out!" the most disgusting thing about it is he's their office windows. 
nearly 75 students shouted, their "Any moron can see this is wrong,"
hiding behind the appeal process."picket signs echoing their non-stop McGovern was ordered, along with UF sophomore Anthony Pedicini said. chants. "Johnny, Johnny, go away. Florida Blue Key -UF's oldest lead­"Civil or crim'inal. defamation is You're a tool ofFBK." wrong. It's not a gray issue."
ership honorary -to pay GrapskiFor an hour and a half, critics of­$250,000 in damages, plus lawyers' Many of those administrators have student body president-elect John said McGovern's and Blue Key's lead­
fees, for the defamatory f1iers ·posted McGovern did not mince words. ership and presence on campus needs
during the Spring 1995 Student 
They made it clear they do not want Government elections. to be determined by students and SG. McGovern -found liable last week of McGovern, a 23-year-old law stu­Wednesday aftnrnoon, standing in a defaming 32-year-old graduate stu­dent, has maintained his right to be crowd of angry students, they main­
dent Charles Grapski by adding child student body pt·esident because he tained that stance. 
molestation charges to his criminal plans to appeal the jury decision and "The students ought to determine record and posting it on campaign because he maintains his innocence. who their own o!licers are," said Art lliers -to lead them or their 41,000 'This is a long judicial process, and Sande.en. vice president of Student peers. we are only at the first step," he said Affairs. UF junior Tim Sheelen said 
"He has no character," former stu­that is politically impossibl(~ because
last week after the verdict. "This will 
dent senator James Salt said. "He of the majority hold McGovern's party
go on for years, and I was elected proved that three years ago. And the with this lawsuit pending." has on SG and the Student Senate. 
• MARSHALL UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA -BERKElEY 
Crash kills one athlete, injures three Police wait for descent of protester 
HUNTINGTON, W.V. BEHKELEY, Calif. 
Feeling flowed on campus Tuesday because of the high­After spending 32 hours camped near the clock hands of way accident Monday morning on l-64 near Morehead, Ky., UC Berkeley's Campanile, animal rights activist Mike which killed one Thundering Herd football player and Kennedy said he will continue to dangle from the tower, 
injured three others. Kemba Bryant, a junior linebacker, enjoying the view for as long as he can. Kennedy dimbed was killed. Injured were Juwuane Sandridge, Maurice up to the clock on Tuesday morning. Near the top, he set Hines, and Lamar Martin. Hines and Martin suffered bruises up a green platform and unfurled a banner reading "End and minor injuries. Both were released from St. Claire Vivisection. Animal Liberation." Although other protesters Medical Center Monday. Sandridge, the driver of the vehicle, from the Animal Hights Direct Action Coalition and In remains in satisfactory condition at St. Claire Medical Defense of Animals who stayed on the Campanile's obser­Center. A private memorial service was conducted Tuesday vation deck were arrested, police have not figured out how night at the Campus Christian Center. Deon Dobbs, a to remove Kennedy safely. "We have no plans to go and Marshall basketball player, said of the accident, "Something get him down," said UC police Capt. Bill Cooper. "We've like this really makes you think about living life to the gone up regularly to check to make sure he's OK." fullest." Dobbs said he really did not know Bryant. "I really According to Kennedy, who is secured to the Campanile by didn't know Kemba, but I know Maurice and Lamar. I feel four different anchors and a harness, police oflicers com­
sorry for the whole team. It's going to be tough for them." municate with him from inside the observation deck. 
• OKLAHOMA UNIVERSITY • MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Source says President shredded report Officials ban alcohol from tailgates 
NORMAN, Okla. EAST LANSING, Mich. 
The answer to the Athletic Department's budget crisis may Citing rowdy behavior resulting from excessive drinking lie in a 13-page report. The problem is, OU President David during tailgates, MSU officials announced Wednesday that Boren ordered the confidential report shredded, according alcohol will be banned from Munn Field during home foot­to someone who wishes to remain anonymous. Boren was ball game days for the 1998 season, sparking outrage given the report last winter. It outlines $2.9 million in ser­among some MSU students and alumni. "If it weren't for vices -services that most other universities pay for -that the behavior, we probably wouldn't have looked at the OU won't. It also identifies areas for cost cutting that could area at all," said Bruce Benson, MSU Department of Police save another $2.8 million annually. The report wasn't the and Public Safety's chief of police. In addition, MSU policn answer university administrators were looking for. Boren made permanent the ban imposi~d on upholstered furni­said the report was unacceptable, and he threw his copy ture that started before the the last gamn of tlw 19<J7 sea­away. "The report was incomplete and inaccurate," said OU son after there were several couch burnings during Munn Press Secretary Kim Hefty. "He told them to start over." But tailgates. But some students and alumni don't think there Boren never asked the Athletic Department to redraft the are enough problems on the field to warrant an alcohol­report, according to the person who wishes to remain free regulation and say the ban is just another way to anonymous. Instead, he told those who received the report eliminate drinking by students. "It's gonna kill a tradition to shred all copies of it. The report was never redrafted. here at state," said junior Brett Lango If. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather., forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, April 24. 40s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 
Friday l ~ 74 44 Saturday ~ 65 45·· Sunday q, "S7 45 
Mond~y ~r 65 451 

COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 Ac.cuWeather, Inc. 

Pressure ~ 
H L B E,Sl 1TI1 0 IZ] 8 {) L-.2. U
Tuesday -~ r··~ 65 462 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
,,. t-,~t'···, /' ''ll'" 
VIS AuOCUI/rtd Pr•ss
,t./ ...; -...../ -....! 

Albany 64 43 Las Vegas 76 54 Pittsburgh 68 43 Billings 68 41 Memphis 78 58 Richmond 74 51 Boston 58 50 Milwaukee 68 42 St. Louis 77 59
4,~,~A.G8 i) ~ u 

Charlotte 72 50 New York 70 52 Seattle 57 42
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Dallas 84 66 Phoenix 85 59 Trenton 70 46
V1a Associated Press GraphicsNet 

__, .-...... -,_ ~-~ --~-..... 
page 3 

Friday, April 24, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Israeli physician fights for human rights in Palestine 
By REBECCA HAMMEL News Writer 
In January 1988, Dr. Huehama Marton, an Israeli physician, along with a group of other physicians, visited a hos-pita! in the Gaza Strip and her life changed forever. 
She and her colleagues encountered a hospital filled with urine and filth, Jacking the necessary supplies to care for its overcrowded patients. 
Marton saw many Palestinians  The physicians talked about  
with broken limbs and head  what they had seen and decided  
injuries and some that were still  to take action.  
unconsci0us from being severely  Marton founded Physicians for  
beaten.  Human Rights, an.organization  
"Each of us carried a heavy  whieh works to unite Israelis  
emotional load," Marton said.  and Palestinians in the struggle  
for human rights. In Marton's  
opinion, this issue is closely tied  
to medicine and politics.  
In her talk, Marton outlined  
the principal strategies of.  
Physicians for Human Rights.  
First and foremost, they seek  
to continuously present their  
ideas and suggestions to both  
the public and the government.  
The group publishes reports  
and press releases both in Israel  
and in foreign countries in  
order to influence world opin­ 
ion. They also bring law suits  
against human rights violators  
to the Israeli Supreme Court.  
In general, the group strives  


to alter the notion of national
A Concert of Indian Classical MUsic identity that is so fundamental to Israeli self-perception. If the 
featuring Israeli public realizes that they are not the only potential vic­tims in the conflict with the
Pandit Monilal Nag -Sitar 
Palestinians, they will become aware of the travesty of human 
Ustad Ali Ahmed Hussain Khan-Shehnai 
rights in Israel. "We innocently believed that if
accompanied by 
we shared what we had seen with the public, they would
Subhen Chatterjee -Tabla 
react the same way that we did, with utter shock, great shame and an intense need to fight
Friday, April24, 1998 against this situation," Marton said.
7:30p.m. 
Her early hopes were quickly dashed, however, by an unre­ceptive public and an uncooper­at the Auditorium, Hesh.rrgh Center for International Studies, ative government. Marton said that her efforts to make the University of Notre IBrne Israeli public aware of the viola­tion of human rights have been
Sponsored by: 
treated with disdain and fear. She has been accused of being a
The India Association of Notre Dame 
traitor to her country and received numerous threatening phone calls .. 
"They are continually trying to humiliate, reject and threaten us," Marton said. 
The public, in order to protect its own self-image, practices what Marton calls an "uncon­scious denial of reality." 
"As a collective, we are always victims, always right, always humane and always must be united," she said of the Israeli public. 
This perspective automatically transforms the Palestinian into the "Other," unscrupulous, inhumane and never united, Marton continued. 
The government, and in par­ticular the policy makers, prac­tice a conscious and deliberate disregard for human rights and attempt to "minimize and flat­ten policy debate," according to Marton, adding that they contin­ually attempt to discredit the Physicians for Human Rights as an untrustworthy source of information. 
The complete and utter denial 
of the use of torture by the 
Israeli government against 
Palestinians has also presented 
many obstacles to Marton. 
She has tried to make the 
public aware of the systematic 
and widespread existence of 
torture, telling them that, "peo­
ple are losing their mind 
because of pain and fear." 
Marton knows that her goal to 
change individual and social 
perspectives of reality as well as 
government policy will continue 
to be difficult. 
"World view is highly resistant 
to change and modifying it 
requires a stubborn persis­
tence," she said. 
rr 

The Asian Indian Classical Music Society of Michiana 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents
The Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies ND/SMC Faculty & Staff: $5 Students: FREE 
Contact Rajib Doogar (631-6499) 
Moreau Center/Little Theatre Friday, May 1st & Sunday, May 3rd • 7:30p.m. 
DIDQAND 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary:s College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday.

AENEAS 
Credit card orders by phone: 
directed by Deborah Norin-Kuehn 
219/284-4626 A fully-staged production of Henry PureeD's work, 
Mg~f)

the first English opera. 
I f;_~ THE ARTS 
~NOTRE DAME, IN 
doing service after 
• Be iJI\volved with coordiJI\atioJI\ 
~~~TE~!!!!111• gradu·ation!?!
..•• 0 
SOCIAL
of the U\rbaJI\ PlvtJI\ge 
CONCERNS 

Class of 1998 

please register for commencement weekend's 
• All partici paJI\ts are i JI\Vited 
VOLUNTEER SEND OFF
to apply 

CEREMONY 
Applications currently available in the Center for Social Concerns 
Monday, April 27, 1998 is the deadline 
which will be held Saturday, May 16th; 10:00 a.m. at Washington Hall 
REGISTRATION DEADLINE: Monday, April 27th FORMS AVAILABLE AT THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS. You do not need to have decided which program you will be volunteering with in order to register. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 24, I 998 

GSU gives teaching awards 
Special 10 The Observer 

Stl~phen Walk and Donald l'aetkau received the 1997-98 (iraduate Student Union Teaching Awards for Instructor. and Teaehing Assistant. resp1~dively. 
"We want to acknowledge those graduat1~ students who have donn an exemplary job in performing their teaching rnsponsibilities," wrote Marybnth Graham, Aeademie Ml'airs Chair !'or the GSU, in an April 21 letter to the recipients. 
Walk. a graduate student in mathematics. was honored l'or leading his course as an instructor. The GSU recognized Paetkau for his work as a teaching assistant in the biolo­gy department. 
Both recipients will be given a gift and a $100 honorarium at the upcoming Graduate School Award Ceremony. 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Mon .. April 20 

5:43 a.m. A University employee was trans­ported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treat~ ment of' an illness. 
Tues.• April 21 

1:31 p.m. An O'Neill Hall resident reported the theft of several compact discs from his unlocked room. 
3:04 p.m. A Siogfried Hall resident reported the theft of his bike from a bike rack at Siegfried. His bike was not locked at the time of the theft. 
KELLOGG INSTITUTE GRANTS AND AWARDS 
UNDERGRADUATE SUMMER RESEARCH GRANTS 
Emily Anne Edwards (Economics/Government) Mark Massoud (Economics/Sociology) Rachel Wacker (Art/Philosophy) Joel Wilson (Psychology/Spanish) 

SEED MoNEY AwARDS 
Regina Castillo (Government) Anibal Perez Linan (Government) Michele Waslin (Government) Kwan Kim (Economics) Byung-Joo Lee (Economics) Benjamin Radcliff (Government) 

DISSERTATION YEAR AWARDS 
.¥: 

David Altman (Government) Margaret Pfeil (Theology) Ana Tereza Lemos-Nelson ( 
iOVI~mtnenltJ 
TheObserver/DaveP1enmg 
\>,· 
4:30 p.m. Security 
niles who were sh~~rr;n;:~..­Booksto_.e,· 
9:15 p;m, A transported•by Center for treatment 
Wed., April 22 
3:28 a.m. Security cited a South Bend n~si· dent for driving with a.~:uspended drivers 
license. ··;p ···. · 
4:07 p.m. A University employee reported the theft of computer equipment from Galvin Life Sciences. 

Kellogg Institute names 1998-99 grant recipients 
Special to the Observer 

The Kellogg Institutn f'or 
International Studios annually 
awards a number of' resean~h 
fellowships and grants, on a 
competitive basis, to Notrn 
Dame faculty members and 
gral!'\mte and ·undergraduate 
students pursuing compara­
tive international studies. 
During summer 1998, three faculty members and thren graduate students will under­take research with seed money grants of up to $3,000 each. Professors Kwan Kim and Byung-Joo Lee of the eco­nomics department will travel to South Korea to study that country's financial crisis and economic restructuring. Benjamin Radcliff, a professor of government and interna­tional studies, will conduct an analysis of "The Political Economy of Happiness." Regina Castillo will be work­ing in Nicaragua; Anibal Perez-Linan on Brazil and Venezuela; and Michele Waslin in Mexico. All three are students from the depart­ment of government and international studies. 
Four undergraduate have received grants of a similar amount for· summer research that will be the basis of senior honors theses or seminar papers. Recipients are: gov­ernment and economics major Emily Anne Edwards, Mark Massoud, an economics and sociology major, both of whom will travel to South Africa; Rachel Wacker, an art and philosophy major, for research in Kenya; and Jonl Wilson, majoring in psycholo­gy and Spanish, !'or a projnct on Chill) and thn UnitPd States. 
During thn 1998-1J9 acade­mic year. thren Ph.D. eandi-· dates will rn1:nive Dissertation Year Fellowships to under­take research ·and writing of dissertations with an interna­tional dimension. The recipi­ents are government students David Altman and Ana TPnlza Lemos-Nelson and theology student Margaret Pfeil. 
One faculty member who is a Fellow of the Kellogg Institute, romance language professor Maria Hosa Olivera­Williams, will receive a Faculty Hesidential Fellowship award. She will be on Sabbatical during the 1998-99 academic year (fund­ed for one year by the Kellogg Institute), completing research and writing of a book manuscript titled "Transformations of Feminine Subjectivity in the Second Half of the Twentieth Century." The Faculty Hesidential Fellowship Program, begun in 1996-97, enables Kellogg Fellows to undertake projncts that arn consistent with the Institute's priorities and that contribute to the development of faculty resources on the international studies at Notre Dame. 
Further information about the Kellogg Institute fellow­ship and research support is available from the lnstitut<l's Academic · Coordinator 

Gabriela Mossi,  room  207  
llesburgh  Center  for  
lntl~rnational  Studies.  

MAKE YOUR DESTINATION . . UNION STATION! 
233-2876 
WEDDING RECEPTIONS 
GRADUATION PARTIES BANQUET DINNERS 
DANCES CLASS REUNIONS 

pClteS 

Ca!/f:.
oreClt . ble! 

tizf:. JOr
AvatlCl 

~ornzat.·
still to11.1 
Where Are you Living This Fall? 
('0-~ NOTRE DAME ~ ~ APARTMENTS ~ 
•
Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 

•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•
August-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" months rent 

•
NOWAITING LIST 


1
"T'he lfle.s{ Vah.11e un 0±1-t~ampus Housing" 
Managed By 
Real Estate Management Corportation 
234-9923 
• 


Introducing ... 
• ''CASTLE POINT SELECT" 


Designedfor the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate--just Compare! 
' '

* UNFURNISHED or FURNISHED Spectacular Furnishings Available! 
• 27" Stereo Television 
•

• Cherry Finished Furnishings •• • Microwave, Toaster, Coffee Maker 
•• 
•

• • All Dishes, Cookware, Linens & New Bedding • • • Plus Much More! 
•• •• •

•• MILLION DOLLAR RENOVATION •• •• * LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft) Starting at $494.00 • •
.*•• •••
LARGE Two Bedrooms (1 ,025 sq ft) Starting at $595.00 
•

OR $149.00 per Person with Four Occupants •
• •• 

: Included with rentals for a LIMITED time--FREE full privilege 
• membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club including: : *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball • * Sauna & Whirlpool * 3 Racquetball Courts * Indoor/Outdoor : * Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts Basketball 
•

• Hurry in for a Tour ofthe Most Pofular
•

• Apartments While They Last. 
• Castfe Y,otntApartments •
•
•

• c~ @ 1ronwoooJ\oaas • 
•

• 272~8110 
•• 


• 
uWfi~r~ J\O!jllf (iving is J\~asona6(~" . 
,"'-•;·r1 r ~"~t).r .t~·.:,)~:•: ·:.1: ·.t: 



Friday, April 24, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
James Earl Ray dies in jail 
NASHVILLE 
James Earl Hay, the 
petty criminal who con­
fessed to assassinating 
Martin Luther King Jr., 
then recanted and spent 
decades seeking a trial, 
died yesterday morning. 
lie was 70. Hay, who was 
serving a 99-year prison 
sentence for the April 4, 1968, slaying, died 
of kidney failure and complications from 
liver disease, said his brother. Jerry Hay. He 
had befln hospitalized repeatedly since late 
1996. By pleading guilty in March 1969, Ray 
avoided the possibility of a conviction at trial 
and a death sentence. He then argued for 
years that he was coerced into making the 
plea. llis attempt to get a trial drew an 
unlikely coalition that included his family as 
well as King's family and otlwr civil rights 
loaders who believe King was the victim of a 
murder conspiracy, not a lone man. 
76 die in Tutsi-Hutu fighting 
BUJUMBUHA, Burundi 
The latest fighting in Burundi between 
llutu rebels and the Tutsi-led army killed at 
least 76 people, including 29 civilians, ofli­
eials said ynstflrday. Most of the civilians 
werp, women and children, said Stanislas 
Ntahobari, governor of rural Bujumbura, the 
area outside the capital where the fighting 
occurred Wednesday. The army killed at 
least 47 rebels, Ntahobari said. The figures 
were confirmed by military spokesman Lt. 
Co. lsaie Nibizi, who blamed the rebels for 
the deaths of civilians in the central African 
nation. "These rebel terrorists benefit from 
the complicity of the population, the same 
population which later suffers," Nibizi said 
without elaborating. The governor said some 
civilians offer sanctuary to rebels. Nibizi did 

not say whether the army suffered casualties 
in the fighting, which lasted hours. 
55-year-old has quadruplets 
SAN DIEGO 
A 55-year-old woman who got pregnant 
through in vitro fertilization has given birth 
to quadruplets. The three girls and one boy 
were delivered Saturday by Caesarean sec­
tion at Mary Birch Hospital for Women. The 
infants were in intensive care today, one in 
critical condition. News of the births was 
first reported by KFMB-TV and confirmed to 
The Associated Press after a reporter visited 
the hospital. The source, who is familiar 
with the woman's situation, spoke on condi­
tion of anonymity. The woman, who is not 
married, delivered the babies at 27 weeks. 
Their birth weights were not immediately 
known. The woman is from San Diego but 
went to San Francisco for the in vitro fertil­
ization procedure. 

S&P 500: 

Composite1130.54 Volume:9176.72 +3.87 852,965,600 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
<OMI'r\JS)' !IS Kl H "'!! CHAN{a; :SCAJN PBJrr 
I'IARK TECIII~C. 'lAXX <7.06 0.500 1.562 ~ANHAn"A~ ASSOC. \-IA:o\/1 45.83 6.875 21.87 ETHICAL IILDG.·ADR ETIICY 45 46 0.625 2.00 VIVUS 11\C. vvus H75 3.500 11.50 SMARTSERV 01\LI~E SSOL 33.33 0.812 3.25 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
TRACKDATA CORP TRAC 42.28 3.973 5.375 AI.PHAMIC ROSYS ALMI <1.41 2.562 3.625 MARKET GUIDE 11'\'C. MARG 41.07 8.015 11.50 7TH LEVEL INC. SEVL. 4 I .06 3.156 4.531 INNODATA CORP INOD 34.00 1.063 2.063 
• INDONESIA 
Angry students want Suharto out 
Thousands gather to protest state of economy, politics 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
JAKARTA 

Defying Indonesia's ban on street protests, thousands of students marched onto a traffic-dogged road in the capital today to shout for an end to President Suharto's three-decade reign. 
At least seven other cities were the scene of student demonstrations for political and economic reform in Indonesia, weathering its worst finan­cial crisis in decades. 
In Bali, police faced down stone­throwing students with tear gas and sticks. Police and witnesses said several officers and at least 12 students were injured in the clash at Udayana University in Denpasar, the capital of the international tourist haven. There were no arrests. 
"Bring down Suharto!" the students in Jakarta chanted, beckoning drivers and bus passengers to join them. It was the largest street demonstration since students launched ncar-daily protests for political and economic reform earli­er this year, as Indonesia's economic crisis built. 
The protesters sat in the road outside Indonesian Christian University, while hundreds of police with sticks and shields lined up nearby. The demon­strators eventually retreated behind the campus fence, ending the tense con­frontation. 
Student protesters are becoming 
tudent from Christian University of Indonesia (UKI) demonstrates against themore daring in their campaign to oust overnment under the watch of riot police during a rally by over 1 ,000 students Suharto, whose standing has been dam­utside their campus in Jakarta yesterday. UKI students joined other university aged by the worst economic slump students across the country in demanding economic and political reforms.
since he took power. Most student ral­lies have been peaceful, although police scuffied briefly with students on anoth­"That's why we went into the street, and protesters have clashed on occa­er campus in the capital. to raise people's awareness about the sion. Public sympathy for the students Students are trying to get other need for reform," said Peysar Barabu, a is widespread, but their protests have Indonesians involved in the public law student. attracted few people off-campuses, and protests, demanding that the govern­On Monday, 2,000 people stoned Suharto remains in firm control of the ment lower prices of basic commodi­shops and houses in the coastal town of military and political establishments. ties. However, bus passengers only Bantaeng, about 900 miles east of 
Thousands of students also marched smiled when the Jakarta protesters Jakarta, in a protest over soaring today in Bandung, Yogyakarta, yelled anti-Suharto slogans outside prices of essential goods, police said Bandarlampung and other cities. Police their windows. today. 
• POLAND 

Jews retrace journey to gas chambers 
ASSOCIATED PRESS than 6,000 Jewish youths Free. It ended at the barren sands non-Jewish Poles 
and 1,000 Holocaust sur­landscape of Birkenau, who died at Auschwitz, and 
OSWIECIM vivors that Israel's creation where the Nazis erected the great risk many Poles 
Led by Israeli Prime has ensured the survival of their crematoria at the took to save their Jewish Minister Benjamin Jews. edge of rows of wooden compatriots.Netanyahu, 7,000 Jews "This is the lesson of the barracks. "Few people know that it from around the world llolocaust, this and only Polish Prime Minister was not only difficult, but 
retraced the two-mile jour­this: That the also very danger­ney from the former Nazi existence of the ous to help Jews 
death camp, Auschwitz, to Jewish people is 
in Poland," Buzek the gas chambers at tied to Jewish 'THE EXISTENCE OF THE 
said. "There was Birkenau. sovereignty and JEWISH PEOPLE IS an immediate 
The "March of the Living" a Jewish army TIED TO JEWISH SOVEREIGN-death penalty for
has for 10 years honored that rests on the saving even one 
the flourishing of Jewish strength of TY AND A JEWISH ARMY Jew. identity over the Nazi Jewish faith," 
"The Nazis

THAT RfSTS ON THEattempt to annihilate it Netanyahu said. 
applied collective through the murders of 6 The march STRENTH OF JEWISH FAITH.' responsibility in million Jews. This year, the began beneath 
such cases, and 

march has renewed signifi­the gate to the they would kill cance, coinciding with the infamous Nazi BENJAMIN NETANYAIIU the whole family, 50th anniversary of Israel's 
death camp, often the neigh­founding. inscribed with the cynical Jerzy Buzek, who marched bors. Only Poles had to pay
Netanyahu, the first slogan, "Arbeit Macht Frei" alongside Netanyahu, such a high price for help­Israeli leader to participate -Work Will Make You recalled the tens of thou-ing Jews." in the march. told more 
~---~--------­
page 6 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 24, 1998 
Any international student who of sneakers, and everyone hard to adjust to a roommate," the United States was that I had does not speak English as a laughed at me. There are so said Wei Yusuf, a junior from no idea what to expeet. I really
Int'l 
continued from page 1 

student admissions, makes two yearly recruiting trips across international waters, one to Latin America and the other to Asia. 
The first efforts towards reeruiting international students began when Father John O'Hara was President of the University in tlw 1940s. O'Hara used to travel to Latin America in the summers looking for prospeetive students, University President Father Edward Malloy explained. 
O'Hara's small beginnings have evolved into Grissom's cur­rent recruiting efl'orts. 
"In my trip to Asia last year, I hit 15 airports in 11 days," Gri:;som said. 
Grissom predominately travels to four types of schools on his yearly trips: American schools, Department of Defense Dependents schools, private international schools and local schools. lie relies heavily on a guide book published by the College Roard, as well as local alumni in the areas he visits. 
"I look through the guide and pick the high schools that I want to visit, and then I contact the Alumni Club in that area and get a point person," Grissom said. "The alumni are great; they arc a tremendous support network for us," he added. 
Although special efforts are made to recruit international students, Grissom explained that no special priorities are given to international student applicants. In fact, many international stu­dents are unable to attend col­lege in the United States due to financial obstacles. Undergraduate international students are ineligible to receive 
U.S. financial aid. 

"They [international students] have a running interference with the Immigration and Naturalization Service because of money. If they have the resources, their certificate of 
finances can be signed oil' by a bank ... but sometimes it isn't that easy," Grissom said. · 
In addition to meeting finan­cial mquiremcmts. international students must satisfy two addi­tional immigration regulations: the international student must be admitted using the same admission standards of all other students and the student must show proficiency in the English language. 
native language must take the TOEFL test, the Test of English as a Foreign Language. The test is based on a scale of 6 77, and prospective Notre Dame stu­dents must score at least 550 points, Grissom explained. 
"Most Notre Dame students 
score above 600," he said. 
The TOEFL test is the only special component of the international application process, according to Grissom. Students from abroad must complete the ACT or SAT, write entrance essays, receive recom­mendations and fulfill all other University requirements. 
More than 250 international students apply for admission each year. This year 85 stu­dents were accepted, it has not yet been determined how many are going to enroll. 
Grissom stressed the fact that international students are put in a separate group, and do not compete with American students for admission. 
Once admitted, an internation­al student begins the transition and adjustment to life at Notre Dame, as well as life in the United States. Part of this adjustment is the inevitable cul­ture shock that exists, Fitzgibbons explained. 
"Culture shock really depends on what country the student is coming from. The greater the difference in culture, and the fewer students from the same country, the greater the culture shock," she believes. 
Sebastian Montufur, a senior finance major from Ecuador and current president of the International Student Organization, believes that pre­vious exposure to American val­ues and beliefs helps to ease the transition process. 
Montufur attended a private American school taught by teachers from the United States, and he started learning English as a young child. 
"I don't think that I really experienced any form of culture shock," he said. "I believe the 
Own Your Own Home For As Little As... 
In 30 days, you can own the waterfront condominium or
$49 9 ~&1Month* 

townhome you've dreamed of, located in a park like setting just minutes from downtown
5 25 ~erest 
South Bend and shopping

• Rate For information about this limited offer, call
$4 750Down 

' Paymmt 232-2002 
•MollflliiJ prinnple and illft'rt'Sf /Jast'd 011 a 2 /lt:tlrool/l bU1JI1mt•Ji 30 vr. fixt'd raft· Raft's an.> 

· lwmt'.;) oml i.s . . .. . "'· ·"'""·'' JJU"'""''"" 

difference is going to an American school, and exposure to an American way of think­ing." 
On the other hand, Kitty Puzon. a junior finance major from the Philippines, encoun­tered many things about life in the United States that she was not expecting. 
"I felt like I had to explain myself a lot," she said. "One time I said rubber shoes, instead didn't have the same classes in high school, and I really strug­gled at the beginning. People that come here know what to expect, but I had to stop and ask a lot of questions of my profes­sors," she said. 
Ingrid Louw, a junior govern­ment and peace studies major from South Al'riea, found size to be one of the most significant differences between the United States and her homeland. 
"Here, everything is so big. Here, the choices that I have are unbelievable. It takes me over half an hour to pick out a brand of cereal," she said. 
Rut, despite all the ehallenges and adjustments that interna­tional students face, the majority of them are happy with their college choice. 
"Steve Grissom came down to recruit me, and when he did, I felt like, 'oh, wow, they're giving me all of this attention,"' Puzon recalled. "When I am here, peo­ple look you in the eye when they pass you on the quad. I was looking for a small, and friendly, competitive environment. I believe that I have found that here," she added. 
many small differences, but I often forget that I have to stop and explain myself." 
One of the first adjustments for international students is liv­ing with an American room­mate. Many international stu­dents do not get along with their first-year roommates for a vari-. ety of reasons, including cultur­al, social or personality differ­ences. Because international students sometimes do not understand American values and beliefs, they may feel excluded from their peers, and the result is a propensity to con­gregate with other people from their country. 
"Roommates are much more difficult for international stu­dents, because they have to put up with a lot," said Fitzgibbons, explaining the phenomenon. "Many international students come in with the idea that they are a guest, and that American students should be their host. Yet most American students are clueless to this fact." 
"When I came here freshman year, I didn't get along very well with my roommate. I was used to my own space, and it was Malaysia and president of the Muslim Student Association. 

Puzon held the opposite opin­ion. She welcomed the adjust­ment and believes that diversity is a very important part of her life at Notre Dame. 
"J had a really good experi­ence with my roommate fresh­man year, and it really helped the adjustment process by living with someone from here," she said. 
In addition to the transition of living with American students, basic cultural differences also may provide a challenge for international students. 
Guillaume Zounlome, a gradu­ate student from Benin, Africa who is working on his Ph.D. in government, found a completely different kind of food when he arrived in the United States in 1989. 
"The food is completely difi'er­ent here," he said. "I don't really know if there is anything here that is similar to what we have in Africa." 
Puzon struggled to adjust to the rigorous academic life of Notre Dame students. "The hardest part about coming to 

PROBLEM :YouR FAVORITE COMPUTER CLUSTER CLOSES AT 2AM AND YOU STILL HAVE AT LEAST 4 HOURS OF WORK BEFORE YOU1LL BE DONE. 


hour 
SoLUTION: UsE ONE OF ouR UNSTAFFED, 24.-HOUR ACCESS COMPUTER CLUSTERS; YOU1LL PROBABLY NEED A DOOR CODE TO GET IN1 SO STOP BY THE STAFFED CLUS.. TER DURING THE DAY, SHOW THE CONSULTANTS YOUR ID., AND ASK FOR THE DOOR CODE TO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CLUSTERS: 
computer 
CCMB  210  25 Macs, 10 Suns  
CCMB  G015  12 Windows  
Fitzpatrick  177  99 Suns, 7 Macs  
Nieuwland  132  16 Macs, 12 SGis  
Nieuwland  202  52 Suns  
Riley  211  18 Macs  

access 

r-----------~----------------~------------------~ 
Friday, April 24, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 
Saint Mary's art majors present pageant of life 
By SARA COX and SHANA'E TATE News Writers 
Last week, a group of Saint Mary's senior art majors pre­sented their comprehensive exhibitions in the Moreau Art Galleries. 
The exhibit will be displayed April 14 through April 17, and will include work by seniors Jessica Lentych, Karen Mendlik. Kim Michalik, Courtney Mollan, Poogie Sherer and Lisa Svelmoe. 
In "Dealing with an aspect of disguise," Lentych made a variety of abstract masks. The masks dealt with human body image and religion. She want­ed people to question what their own defensive mecha­nisms are, along with her own. 
Mendlik's work was inspired by Native American writings and was made with "large mix media pieces that have to do with nature," including clay and feathers. One feature of the piece is quotes and text which Mendlik used from the inspirational writings. 
"Metamorphic Consciousness," by Kim Michalik, is a self-portrait describing changes throughout the past 10 years. The changes, dealing with philoso­phy, religion, body image and relationships, were expressed on fibers made of fabric, papers and books. 
When describing her work, Courtney Mollan explained that she hoped "to provoke thought with necessarily pro­viding a direction for that thought." 
Looking to "inspire people to examine their own values and ideas," MoHan based her sym­bolic work on a personal phi­losophy, "as well as others that she relates to." 
Sherer's project is a compos­ite self-portrait created from mixed media sculptures made of clay and fiber materials. 
Her display described "roles dealing with being a daughter, sister, artist, lover and self­relation to self." 
Sherer believes that one's identity is composed of many different roles which lire taken on at different times. 
Svelmoe's "Sunday Morning" was a response to the poet Wallace Stevens. Combining painting and ceramics, Svelmoe did an acrylic on can­vas comprised of three differ­ent images. 
"[Stevens] is a poet I admire because his poetry explores the relationship between reali­ty and imagination," she stat­ed. "Painting does the same thing for me." 
These art features gather work from all senior studio art classes at Saint Mary's and are held once a semester, allowing art department facul­ty to assess student progress. The portfolios have been dis­played through the entire week. 

The NBA JBM van ;s c~Min9! Ant~stBl weekend 
:s,.~~9ht t~ !I~~ h!f MD Al~Mni Ass~ciBti~n & BdidBs ND J~!lce tente" -S~~th \.~t (~n J~nipe,.) 
..) S6ttn•d6!f, Ap,.il 2S 

106M-7PM 
page 7 

Exiled Chinese dissident speaks to press 
The Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Nine years after Wang Dan helped lead an ocean of young people through Tiananmen Square to implore China to expand democracy, he spoke out today with a more lonely, ambivalent voice. 
"My feelings right now are mixed," Wang said at a news conference. 
"On the one hand I am nat­urally delighted to breathe free again, especially since I can now live and study in a free country like America," he said. "But on the other hand, I feel disturbed at hav­ing been forced to leave my own country, to live separate­ly from my family, relatives, and friends, and all of my compatriots, without knowing when, if ever, I will be allowed to see them again." 
His actions as a charismatic 20-year-old college student made Wang one of China's most-wanted fugitives. Now 29, Wang was released Sunday after nearly six and one half years in Chinese prisons and put on a plane to the United States. 
He said today that he had been unwilling to leave China, but during his first release, from 1993 to 1995, close gov­ernment scrutiny prevented him from doing anything. So this time he chose medical parole, effectively exiling him. 
Despite the medical parole, Wang appeared healthy and fit, showing no visible effects of his imprisonment. 
He said getting an educa­tion would be a higher priori­ty than political activism. He said he would like to com­plete the education that was interrupted by the 1989 Tiananmen Square crack­down. 
The questions surrounding his freedom are much the same as in November, when longtime dissident Wei Jingsheng was released to his own life of exile: What role will he play? And, perhaps most crucially, what does his freedom mean to U.S.-China relations? 
"There are no random events with the Chinese gov­ernment," said Bill Ward, a business administration pro­fessor at Susquehanna University in Pennsylvania who studies modern China. He met Wang in Beijing dur­ing the 1989 protests before the military crackdown in which hundreds -and per­haps thousands-died. 
"I think the Chinese have consistently looked at us and said, 'We'd like to continue to expand a relationship with you and we'll do good things to help you, but we're also going to show you we're still in charge here,"' Ward said. "It's really the yin and the yang going on here." 
Wang Dan's release came two months before President Clinton is scheduled to visit Beijing. Chinese President Jiang Zemin visited the United States late last year, and relations between the two economic powers ­always a tight-wire act involving economics and human rights -appear rela­tively smooth. 
That angers some advocacy groups who perceive Wang's release as a publicity move. 
* The Most Affordable Student Housing * 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year Summer Rentals June~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

\vhylugy~~ 
~, stuff across ! I I -~-~ -~·",~\--· -1 campus? ·
.. 

~/ t\-tTJ 

~ESPWS 
Call 277·5655 for free pick up at 
your roorn -on or off cmnpus. 
Boxes Plus •the lower priced shipper• 5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza j near Sam's ~lub________j 



The-Observer • CAM:P~E-ws--. ~-·-­

Although Signer is excited and the Holocaust. Segal is the children who survived the child into an adult without a about every session of the con­premier sculptor of Holocaust Holocaust. Lawrence Langer, birthday. He has no history at
Holocaust 
ference, he noted that that one memorials in America and who compiled visual testi­all," said Betty Signer, coordi­

The Observer: We've got issues. 
The Right Direction Can Make All 
The Difference. 
Kids need a lot of direction to know which way is up. Especially when they're learning to read. That's 


John M. Marshall's, Inc. 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist
-National Tests why they need people like you. Show 40% We'll give education awards of nearly $5,000 to
Diamonds 
people who help kids learn to read by joining
Of All Children 

AmeriCorps*VISTA. You could be one of them.
Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 
Read Below 

-
As an AmeriCorps*VISTA member, you'll gain real­Grade Level. world experience, build your resume, help people in 
18karat Yellow Gold or Platinum. 
need, and earn money for student loans or graduate 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? 
schooL You'll receive a living allowance and medical 
Choose wisely with information in our complimentary 
benefits. And, most importantly, you'll know you've 
helped a child succeed in school and in life.
book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
Take the Lead. Help Kids Read.
AmeriCorps *VISTA. 
Established 1965 Telephone: 287-1427 

Conta:•~::~~:~ ';:;:;'"""' ,,,]i,~.
'·.. 
Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. 
at 312-353-8280, sbaxter@cns.gov 
V

KeyBank Building, Suite #101 
Or visit our website at www.americorps.org
South Bend, Indiana 46601 
·--------------------·---~~~~~====~~~~~~~~~~ 

Voted #1 Oriental Restaurant for Seven Years in a Row Szechuan • Hunan • Cantonese · American Restaurant & Lounge Open 7 Days 
Sunday Buffet Brunch -Every Sunday 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. $8.95 for Adults $4.50 for Children under 10 
(219) 272·7376 · 130 Olxleway South 
<G>travelmore 
Carlson 
Wagonlit
Traver 
~ 
AT TRAVELMORE/CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL WE HAVE BEt:N SENDING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUI>ENTS AND FACULTY TO EUROPE FOR OVER 25 YEARS. LET OUR EXPERIENCED EUROPEAN SPECIALISTS PLAN YOUR NEXT TRIP TO EUROPE. OUR AGENCY OFH:RS; 
STUDENT & FACUlTY RATES 
-LOW AIRFARES TO EUROPE-
RAil PASSES ISSUED IN OUR OFFICE 
-WIIHNO_SERYICE EEE • 
DISCOimD EUROPW CD RENTAlS 
T•llCIIR 6116&11116 WOrltlllfiiSI 
AmeriCorps*VISTA. Getfing Things Done. 

Handbell Choir 
and 


Women's Liturgical Choir 
.-./ ...--~-.,--""-............. 
,-r../ ......._ 
·)~~~ '~'· .~~~ ~~:··
!J' },,....,.. ·~ ' 
..., r·~CIILJJiJfiini'Ws;s'~l, ·,~UJJ,,.
'I ,,~;.. ''UV{...­

.._,~\t,;.?T''"' "-'f~Jrt.. ,--~ 
·---"'\).. I•ill 
Spring Concert 
April 26, 1998 8:00PM (immediately following Easter Vespers) Basilica of the Sacred Heart lml 
University of Notre Dame 0MPUS 
MNISTRY 
continued from page I 

could tell the story of their experiences, according to Signer. Wolin began to experi­ment with various elements to enhance the story, including adding text from the survivor's testimony to the photograph. 
At 8:45 a.m. on Monday, three scholars will address the relationship between G.entiles and Jews in East and Central Europe. 
Following that presentation, three historians will respond and try to assess the question of the role of the Protestant and Catholic Churches before, during and after the Holocaust. 
On Monday afternoon, two Catholic and two Jewish the­ologians will discuss contem­porary Jewish-Christian rela­tionships in Germany. 
will be especially interesting. 
"Each [of the theologians] in their own way has spent their adult lives working to improve Jewish-Christian relations in Germany. We never hear about the day to day work of people who are trying to educate and teach," he said. This will be the first time these four have spoken in the United States about the tragedy. 
Later that afternoon, three scholars will explore literary aspects of the Holocaust, including poetic and literary approaches by Israeli and American authors. Marcia Landy, who will discuss Hollywood and the Holocaust, was at Notre Dame last month as part of the Holocaust film symposium. 
On Monday evening, sculptor George Segal will speak on art 

1723 S. BEND AVE. PH 219-271-4880 FAX 219-271-4879 NEXT TO THE NO CAMPUS 
Germany, according to Signer. 
Four speakers will discuss post-Holocaust education in Monday morning's session. David Blumenthal, who will take part in this talk, helped plan the U.S. Holocaust Museum, and has worked on director Steven Spielberg's Holocaust project. He currently runs an "innovative program of Holocaust education" at Emory University, according to Signer. 
Following that session, the conference will spend two ses­sions exploring the connections between social science, genet­ics and racism. Anthropologist Jonathan Marks, who will speak during one of those ses­sions, spent last semester at Notre Dame as a Holocaust scholar-in-residence. 
The next session deals with monies from hidden children, will speak on his work. 

Another participant is Binjamin Wilkomirski, author of "Fragments: Memories of a Wartime Child." The author is a survivor who spent the first five years of his life in a con­centration camp. Wilkomirski grew up without any knowl­edge of his personal history, including his parents and his birth date. Since then, he has become an established author. 
"He is a very big name now in terms of his book and writ­ing. He's going to talk about what it's like to grow up as a 
nator for the Holocaust Project. 
The final session of the con­ference, which begins at 8:15 Tuesday night, features Father Remi Iloeckman, Secretary of the Holy See's Committee for Heligious Helations with the Jews. Iloeckman was a prima­ry editor of the recent Vatican document on the Catholic Church's role in the Holocaust. 
All sessions of the conference will be in the Center for Continuing Education with the exception of Jeffrey Wolin's presentation in the Snite Museum. 








VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 24, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEf Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Hearher MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ............... Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ......................... Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brerr Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Karhleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet ScENE EDITORS.......................... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klirsch CONTROLLER ....................................•Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Oalum 
'J'hc Observer is tilL' im.lependcnt new!opapcr published by the slUdents nf the University of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. h docs nm necessarily rcAecr the policies of the administration ofeither ins~itution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. MJ.naging Editor, A<isis.tant Managing Editor and department cditor!i. Commentaries, letters and columm. present the vu."Ws nf the amhors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro all members of the Nnrre Dol me/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouragetl. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-532.~ Sysrems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observet@darwin.cc.nd.edu Otlice Manager/General information 631-7471 News E-Mail observcr.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Observer is Anti-Catholic 
Why? That is my question. Why do I have to pay where's my freedom to not have to listen to or 
for this? I'm not talking about tuition increases or read that drivel? 
the Flex 14 plan or even the outrageous book I'm sure that by now some of you are wonder-
prices at the bookstore. I'm referring to this ing why I even bother to page through this news­
paper. Why is it that I was never given an option paper. I used to frequent The Onion's web page, 
to pay for this trash? And yes, it is trash, because and I used to watch the national news for infor­
it goes straight from my mation about the presi­
hands into the can. r---------------------, dent's sex scandals, but 
This is a Catholic uni-I've discovered that I 
versity, supposedly one don't need to. There's 
of the most prestigious enough idiocity in our 
in the nation. It is not own homegrown new-
just guided by the steam at The Observer to 
Catholic tradition, but a give me all the laughs 
full-fledged Catholic that I can handle for the 
university. months that I spend here. 
The Observer may be But am I ever going to 
an 'independent news-remember anything that I 
paper,' but does that read in this paper after I 
mean that it can repeat-leave this Catholic univer­
edly show disrespect for sity? Nope. Would I be 
the Catholic ideals that much better off spending 
are the foundation to my six bucks on a night 
this institution'? Why at the movies or splitting 
does the administration a pizza with friends, even 
promote this paper by if it means that I have to 
including it as a part of eat off of Styrofoam 
the tuition and fees'? plates, abide by parietals 
Why don't they promote and restrain myself from 
something useful and having premarital sex? 
something true to the L________:_____::___.:_-=..________, Yep. There's no doubt 
basic ideals of Notre Dame'? How about football about it. . tickets? I suppose that the argument is that people I remember hearing speeches about the "Notre 
are willing to buy football tickets even after they Dame Experience" nearly two years ago. Does the 
pay tuition, but that they aren't willing to buy The administration actually think that The Observer is 
Observer. Can't argue with that one. an essential part of that experience? Come on! 
Everybody wants his or her rights on this cam­Forget Saint Mary's, The Observer is the great 
pus. Where are my rights'? At least my request is Notre Dame parasite. It grabs hold of our pocket­
rational. I'm not asking for a change to the non­books once we enter as green freshman and never 
discrimination clause. I'm not asking for a repeal lets go. It spreads its black ink (or color for those 
of the nearly six-percent tuition increase. And special gay and lesbian pages, of course) all over 
even if they don't include it as a part of the price our fingertips. It tries to work its way up into our 
of this place, I will be more than willing to shell minds to change what this University is all about. 
over the $100 for football tickets when fall rolls This is a Catholic place. There is absolutely no 
around. All I want is my six bucks that gets wast­reason why I should be forced to pay for trash that 
ed on this paper. I have a right to those six measly consistently tries to deny that fact. Give me my six 
dollars. bucks. 
You have your freedom of speech and freedom 
of the press, so you can say or print whatever you John Buchmann 
want. Abiding by that, I'm sure that this letter will Sophomore 
quickly be dismissed and replaced by a GLND/SMC Siegfried Hall 
sympathizer, or maybe it will be preempted by our April 22, 1998 
wonderful alumni friend, Mr. McMahon. But 
• DOONESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 
YOU KNWtuHJJ:T I HATa? 
ACOUT 771& 05{'A!(9r THAT JliRI<Y 5PEI&OI ~P!R£CllR 
OF "T!TAN/C'MAIZ, 7HJ.TTM!a£ 


page 9 
• ilUOTE OF THE DAY 
'There are more old drunkards than old physicians.' 
-Rabelais 

[' 


VIEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 24, 1998 
• THE DOOLEY filES 
A New Story Every Hour 
Lynn. a student, volunteers five hours each week at the Chapin Street Clinic. tier duty is to meet, inlimnally, with people hopeful for the future of their nwdical care. They range from the down-on-their-luck to the derelic:t: they who have no family. and they who are crowded out for want of liv­ing space for all the siblings; they who can hold only part-time jobs, and tlwy. tho ff)Cent victims of downsizing; thny. tlw chronic, the disabled and the snemingly healthy. 
It is what Hobert Cole described as thn Call of Stories -that fascination with human experience, fueling the profnssion of medicine and the like, which eompds eaeh new day of inves­tigation into the lives of strangers. In 
welcoming new 
!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ their time," she paticnl'i into the says.clinic, Lynn ean 
Ed 
*** 

indicate a new Viola does not avenue of hope consider herself for people who a volunteer; she can see none for thinks she is themselves. She merely a patient

McCool

holds the first at the Chapin impression for 
-----========----­
those seeking to 
start over. 
"Intakes are unique, like nothing I've learned in school. I need empathy and open ears, but I also need to call on intuition. Every case is different. That is, everyone's story is unique." 
*** Deborah silc; in the clinic waiting room every Monday and Friday after the AA meetings adjourn. waiting for someone to read her blood pressure. One recent day, while being attend­ed to, she looks dead at the man with the stnthoscope and gushes: "I could say so many wond1~rful things about you volunteers. Everyone at the clinic has always bnen so good to me!" She is a voluntner hcrs1~lf now. help­ing to organize M meetings at other sites. To her, it seems litting to homage the volunteers before her by becoming onn herself. There is no place for idleness in her plan of repayment. As D1)borah says. "It sort of com­pletes the drde." 
*** 
Midwlle spends time at a loeal hos­pital, rotating through the wards in an elli1rt to better understand the inter­action of the variety of medical disci­plines. She linds her complimentary white coat and name tag empower­ing. 
, "When I volunteer, no one really cares that I'm a student. I'm pulled into the opemtion of whatever ward I'm in, and am often expeeted to phys­ieally help with patienlc; or equipment. I can handle nquipment and manipu­late patients. behave as though I bdong them. The words 'pre-medical student' are forgotten in the shuiTie." 
Or-in the greatest dignity-they are never brought up at all. 
*** 
Nick has derived fond memories from outreaeh to the community, especially to elderly folks who are nssentially home-bound. With time he has overeome his feelings of intimida­tion by the elderly and given way to sharing of stories and emotions. lie rm:alls the midst of one visit when an nlderly friend bngan to cry for memo­ry of her son: 
"I felt incredibly helpless. Alii could do was reach out to give her a hug and listen. She later apologized for crying like that. but I assured her I didn't mind. Actually, I learned a lot from that oecasion. !learned the value of listening." 
Ultimatnly, it became friendship bPtwmm the young and the old, and a home-visit for service became a house call for personal enjoyment. This is a powerful Christian idiom: The roles of servant and friend are interchange­abh~ and. in fact. one and the same. 
*** 
Janet is a physician with no qualms about sacrificing olliee pay liJr the chane1~ to volunteer at Chapin Street. And while lwr pePrs are refusing, for disdain of the paltry rPimbursements, to accept Medicaid, she maintains in her own oflice a policy of blindness to such assistance programs. 
*** 
"As corny as it sounds, medicine is about helping people. It's not our place to be choosy about who we will help, about who is worthy of our time and professional attention." 
This doctor is one of 75 who arc personally resolved to provide for uninsured patienLc; at the clinic. She and the others beg the notion: Perhaps there is more breadth to the volunteer culture than just youngsters seeking resume fodder and retirees entertaining a hobby. 
"Everyone should be willing to give 
Street Clinic. 
Still, she responded in person to a call last week from the clinic, where a bewil­dered staff, operating without their bilingual receptionist, was trying to sort out the needs of a monolingual Hispanic man. Without her ad hoc service as interpreter, his immediate medical needs might have persisted with devastating effect on his health. Speaking a few words in Spanish made all the difference. 
"Of course I didn't have to come, but we're all like a community. You know, the people down here are my neighbors." 
It is hardly standard practice to harangue patients for help with busi­ness matters. Yet, the sense of com­munity noted by Viola shows that a volunteer title is no more expected or desired for such service than would be a paycheck. 
*** 
Kathy is a volunteering busy-body. For her, eaeh day of the week is passed at a different site, doling out her time in exchange for the intangi­ble gratitude of those who stand to benefit. 
Chapin Street is her favorite. "The people are just great. They're so much fun, so interesting. There's a new story practically every hour. And people just seem to realize how good it is to be here," she said. 
*** 
Ted arrives at a local emergency 
room shortly before midnight every Monday. For him, thern are four hours of calming the concerns and mending the frayed nerves of the sud­
denly infirm. After two months of this, some insomniatcd woman finally asks the question perhaps held silently by every other patient: "Isn't it a waste of your time to be here'?" 
A.<> a patient advocate, Ted has attended to the mundane concerns of thirst and elimate control among the triaged patients, along with the stealthier duty of reassurance. Though it is late and they are strangers, he knows more about them than they of him. By mere observation -of the attitudes. of the eharts, of the eavesdropped remarks-he has begun to understand both the person and the illness encoded vvithin these emergency cases. And he has only one response for that skeptical patient: 
"I've never been one to pass up a good story." 
Ed McCoul is the 1997-98 recipient ofthe Tom Dooley Service Award. He is a graduate ofthe College ofScience. class of '97, and currently resides in South Bend. /lis column usually appears every other Thursday. lie can be reached by e-mail at emccoul@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 

• THE MIGHTY OAK 
Everything Sucks, Let's Get Drunk 
I have nothing to say that is joke is actually meant to important. Politics should bn illustrate the sorry lack of left to politicians, barbers science education in our and waitresses at truck stops. nation's high schools. Campus ad hoc committees Notre Dame shows a on whether shrimp cooked in strange, otherworldly wis­lard should be counted as dom in the landscaping of the meat and banned during God Quad which sorely lacks Lent are inconceivable to me. everywhere else. Trees in I like boxers, ROTC and the God Quad are a carefully other subversive organiza-selected mix of interesting tions. Patty O'Hara doesn't species spaced at sane inter-bug me and single-sex dorms vals. Everywhere else tlmre make for more daring gender has been recent construction, relations and better stories the newly-planted trees arc for the campfire. So here is a packed in ridiculous density heterogenous blend of worth-with all sorts of smaller less things; a few bits of shrubs and sculptures and Notre Dame natural history, benches and sidewalks and lives. 
I like Braveheart a whol1~ lot too, but when we quote its rather straightforward phi­losophy constantly as if it were original, don't we diminish the value of the movie'? Let's be mom selec­tive in our rampant quoting of it. Or vary our discourso with quotes from Thomas Paine and JoiTorson and other freedom kind of guys who expounded on the sub­ject in a little more detail and shot Englishmen instead of cutting their limbs on· (not saying one method of dis­patch is hotter than the 

a few observations and ==========;~~~~~~~Jther).
brief reflections about on-campus life from an epic perspective. relat-

Sean 
ed queries and a few bad jokes. Whoooosh is the sound of my jour­
0'c0n n 0r 
nalistic organizational 
skills flying out the win­dow. 
Everybody's always whining about lack of "social space." What exactly goes on in "social space'?" Talking'? Games of marbles'? I haven't noticed a general suppression of talking around campus due to lack of "social space," nor cramped mar-hie shooters in existing "social space." People don't go to "social space" and make out or something precisely because it's too social. Why do they need it in unlimited quantity'? LaFortune's pretty big. DeBartolo computer lab is open all night and even has couches in the lounge. All the dorms have 24-hour lounges. The quads are open to the general popu­lace 24 hours every day and have lots of bushes. Or you can join the Knights of Columbus and enjoy the ben­efits of their building, open 24 hours. If all these places to talk don't suffice, go to a bar and play darts, for gosh sakes. They're usually pretty social. Or if you need some­thing more discreet, get a hotel room. Or go to Fat Shirley's, also open 24 hours. That's my seemingly required "social space" agen­da if I ever run for student government. Let's not tempt the University to cut down the woods by Saint Joe's lake and build another cinder block building with all the architectural frill of Our Lady's Radiation Lab and a web of sidewalks leading out in every conceivable direction so antisocial people can have another place to pretend to be social. 
Hey, here's a good idea! Let's ban drinking on cam­pus! There won't be a mass-exodus from the place after sophomore year, no, no. People will just stop drinking and go play marbles at the new social spaces, factories, golf courses, dens of bureau­cracy and whatever-the-hell else buildings somebody decided needed to increase 50 fold after 156 years. 
Here's my token stupid joke about Bridget's while we're on liquor: What did the freshman say to the aging hare at Bridget's'? "Hey silly rabbit, Bridget's is for kids." As hares are not rabbits, this roads cut between them. 
It strikes me that the forest which has been planted around the Stadium Enterprise in the little pock­ets in the sea of concrete may 
not look good when it grows up starved for water and packed against the soaring sides of a huge brick build­ing. Quality beats quantity in the long run. And on DeBartolo Quad, a ring of mulch around those little maples might prevent the lawn tractors from ripping chunks out of their sides when they try to mow up to their feet. Why can't God advise the landscapers on His neighbors' quads, too'? 
The large trees which for­merly marched down the fringes of South Quad were American Elms (Ulmus amer­icana). They succumbed over the last several years to Dutch Elm disease, a fungus spread by a bark beetle which was introduced from Europe in the early part of the century and has been moving west. The small trees which have been planted to replace them are hackber­rics, another tree of the elm family with a peculiar corky bark. The elms were not felled because Notre Dame suddenly became anti-tree, as some lamenters rushed to point out last fall. They lived long, good lives and gave good shade to thousands of people and then died stand­ing. 
Here is my input on the GLND/SMC debate. Everyone in Zahm, contrary to that inanely trite saying, is not "gay." I know a good handful of Zahm graduates who have gone on to marry women and even have kids. Zahm is a good Catholic dorm which teaches self-sufliciency with your hands and your mind. a place where every man really 
There are !lying squirrels living on campus. I saw one on a night last fall glide into a large silver maple between Zahm and 
Cavanaugh. Their scientific name, Glaueomys volans, means "!lying gray mouse." Another tidbit on flying night things: The large things winging around catching moths in the glow of the Dome recently returned from the tropics are nighthawks, not huge bale;. Nighthawks are not hawks, but goatsuckcrs, which do not suck goalc;, I do not under­stand an aversion to mice practiced as a general rule of living. As ver­min go, they are quite attrac:tive, having prntty. sleek coats in lic)U of scales or exoskeletons or other non-mam­malian coverings. Look at their eyes, like a deer's. Then squcml if you still must, or break their backs with steel traps, but c:ry when you see a dc~er shot, because deer are bigger. Also, eat veal but decry hunting. That's chic. And as to vermin in general. without them. who would cl1~an up the crumbs'? Everybody not from the eity who doesn't work in a tall building where you can become a partner is a mel­ner.k, blah, blah, old pick-up trucks, blah. blah, guns blah, blah. not politically-correet. eat possums, no teeth. So what'? Good possum stew probably tastes b1~tter than McDonald's. Who is smart1~r. the guy who gets his ~~xercisn while h11 is working in the great outdoors and loves life, or the guy who sits at some bland monitor spitting out numbers all day and then wastes his only free time in the gym trying to save him­self from a heart attack. The outdoors guy, in my opinion, because he grows food and gelc; a suntan on his neek. The other guy gets nearsight­ed and sull'ers from fmqwmt headaches. When you finish lunch, walk to class with your unripe banana thinking about this little gem: Thornau defined a pearl as "the hard­ened tear of a diseased clam. murdered in its old age." 
Sean O'Connor '97 is a per­son. lie can be reached at Sean. B. 0 'Connor. 43@nd. edu or on the playground ifyou have been offended. 
11ze views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


~-.~------------~--~~---.--------~------· 



VIEWPOINT
Friday, April 24, 1998 page 11 
• lETTERS TO THE EmTOR 

Abortion Information Has No Place at Notre Dame's Women's Resource Center 
University Must Take Action Abortion Info Needs to Go, and Against Women sResource 
University Needs Healthier Atmosphere 
Center 

This community owP-s a debt of gratitude to the staff of Right Reason for exposing a source of immeasur­able evil: namely that an officially rocognized organization has chosen to provide membnrs of our commu­nity with the moans to kill our chil­dren. 
The organization is the Women's Hesource Center, their means is pro­viding information regarding Planned Parenthood. Need proof? Simply look at the front cover of Right Reason. Need I point out the dubious moral status of Planned Parenthood to the undoubtedly edu­cated and aware members of our administration? 
This is not an issue of the Catholic character of Notre Dame. I do not need to quote the Pope regarding the moral species of abortion itself and those who willingly cooperate in it. Doubtless the members of our administration are more than aware of Church teaching. Moreover, this is not even an issue concerning the broadly Christian character of this University. Rather, at issue is the very fundamental acknowledgment of the dignity of the human person which a community must make in order to exist as a group of persons, some of whom have not yet been born. 
Ignorance is no longer an excuse that can be used to defend those in charge. I address this letter to the 'burPaucracy' precisely because I do not know who to beg to end the damage that is being done. Professor O'Hara? Father Malloy? The C.S.C.s? Whoever can act, act. Please do not let the semester end without resolving this issue. Prove to the students that you, the adminis­trative bureaucracy, have the spine to assert that members of this com­munity will not be given the recogni­tion and the space to lead other members of this community to their deaths. 
This is not an issue of free speech. I am not advocating that rational debates on the issue of abortion be terminated. I am merely pointing out that proof now exists that our University has endorsed a group that is providing information which directs, in easy steps, how to have an abortion. There is a way to dis­cuss the nature of bombing without giving instructions on how to make a bomb. 
None other than the renowned atheist Ivan Karamozov has put my question to the administration, "imagine that you yourself are build­ing the edifice of human dignity with the object of making people happy in the finale, of giving them peace and rest at last, but for the sake of that you must inevitably and unavoidably torture one tiny creature ... and raise your edifice on the foundation of her unrequited tears­would you agree to be the architect on such conditions?" 
I ask you for answers. Tell me, tell the students, tell the whole commu­nity very dearly that this 
University will not build itself on, nor will it tolerate, nor will it give official recognition to groups who are willing to direct members of our community to their death. 
What does our ranking matter? Who cares about the size of our endowment? Moreover, what con­cern should the famed Generations campaign be, if we cannot prevent cooperation with the abortion estab­lishment on the part of a recognized 
University organization? One human life is worth more than all the dona­tions of the wealthy families, more than all the material world. 
I am asking you, the bureaucracy, to dearly affirm the value of life. Investigate and remove the Women's Resource Center from our campus. 
Sean J. Connolly 
Sophomore, Zahm Hall 
April 22, 1998 


for Pregnant Mothers 
On April 20, I entered the Women's Resource Center (WRC) and asked the two women working there if they had informa­tion on abortion. The women quickly provid­ed the WRC resource guide and pointed to the section on abortion. This contained the addresses and phone numbers of several clinics in towns such as Niles and South Bend. The women wrote down the informa­tion about two of the clinics for me, and when I inquired about the price of abortion they offered to call and ask. 
-----I am not pregnant. I was 
simply curious what the WRC would do if a 
woman walked in and asked that question, and 
the visit satis­fied my curiosity. 
There is no ques­tion that 
the WRC has lots of infor­mation on abor­tion, and they are 
very will­ing to give it out. There is ',. ) also no ques­/ tion that the University of 
I '
/111 . 
Notre Dame should prohibit the distribution of such information on the second floor of LaFortune. 
I will grant that the women did not sug­gest that I obtain an abortion or offer to counsel me in any way. They simply provide information upon request, and in this way they only serve women who have chosen abortion or are considering it as an option. Although they take no explicit stance on abortion, the fact that they referred me to various abortion clinics shows that they implicitly accept abortion as a valid option. It is absurd to justify their actions because of their indifference. I am sure that none of the individuals that work at the WRC would support an organization that systematically kills newborn babies. Furthermore, they would never put the information about such an organization in their resource guide. 
No ethical individual could rationalize. their actions by saying that they do not pro­mote such a procedure, but simply provide the information to the mothers that wish to undergo the process. Unfortunately, that process is identical to abortion. Anyone who knows that life begins at conception should see no difference between aborting an unborn child and killing a newborn baby. For this reason, anyone who knows that life begins at conception should also be out­raged that the WRC provides information about abortion and refers to specific abor­tion clinics. It is impossible to separate informing from promoting when such a life­threatening issue is concerned. 
The Catholic Church shares the view of so many pro-lifers that life begins at concep­tion. As a Catholic institution, Notre Dame should value and celebrate life. Unfortunately, Notre Dame fails miserably to uphold and protect human life when they allow a campus group to provide informa­tion on abortion. I do not know how much the University previously knew about what goes on in the WRC, but I do know that the University now has a religious and moral responsibility·to quickly and effectively stop the WRC from referring women for abortion. 
It is simply not enough, however, to stop the WRC. All pro~life individuals also have the responsibility to change the circum­stances that make women feel that they must choose abortion. As a woman, I can only imagine how frightening it would be to become pregnant during college. 
Furthermore, it must be even more fright­ening at Notre Dame, where there seem to be no pregnant women. Look around and it will not be hard to see that a woman at Notre Dame would want to be anything but pregnant. 
When faced with pregnancy, it is under. standable that a woman could choose to be more practical than moral. It is therefore our responsibility to make choosing life the more practical option. Ifwe want to protect the health of unborn children, we should make Notre Dame a loving and caring envi­ronment for all pregnant women. If we want to morally claim that abortion is wrong, we must actively accept all women who choose not to have one. 
I write this letter urging all administra­tors, staff and students at Notre Dame to truly consider the life and health of unborn children and their mothers. We should not only stop the outrageous actions of the WRC, but we should also work hard to make Notre Dame a place where pregnant women feel loved and cared for. We have no right to call ourselves pro-life if we do not do so. 
Christine Gabany Junior, Pangborn Hall April 22, 1998 

I'm writing this letter to thank the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who participated National Day of Silence . who participated distrib which read, "The Day of...,.,."'"'"" draw attention to those been silenced and prejudice. you are not hearing. you to end the silence?" Let me repeat that one more time. "Think about the. voices you are not hearing.::.. / < .• 
Did the organizers stop to think a minute that the student body of Notre Dame is hearing these voices of protest? For example, today) .. Observer·(April 8) carried o:Qe arti~le, two editorials, and two advertise-· ments regarding homosexual"educa• tion." In fact, I'd bet that The 
..~-.....~~~~~-~----~-~~==--~..........~~........~....--~------~==~--------,•r-·----~-~·-,~---~--~·-~--~.----.~~--------------~-­

~-~@aile 
page 12 -------------------~OBSERVER Friday, April 24, ll)98 



The most no 


E~pl£>rii1g life 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant Managing Editor 
They sleep in class and gag at the din­ing hall; they laugh at episodes of South Park and make rude jokes about their professors. They go to dances and par­tins; if they are old enough, they go to bars. They may blush when they talk about that one woman who made their breath quicken a bit, and they may hit the wall in frustration when their world starts to fall apart. They are all caught up in Notre Damn life. and they are all searching for themselves. 
They arc perfectly normal. 
But to the seven men who currently reside in Old College, being normal is seen as something of an achievement. Living in a house with as much rumor attached to it as there is history, these students engage in a daily struggle against misconception and myth. And sometimes they even win. 
"It is hard to know sometimes that people see you as the middle step between themselves and God," said Philip Donner, a sophomore Old Collegian. "They have this different view of you. almost like they expect you to be better than they are." 
To most of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's undergraduate community, Old College is something of an anomaly. Students know it exists, they know it has smm~thing to do with priests and prayer. but beyond these superficial truths there is little concrete knowledge about Old College. 
"I think the strangr.st thing to me was finding out that they were normal." said junior Andy Wendelborn of his first visit to Old College. "They weren't nerdy monks who pray all the time. They were a lot like me. 
"I can't tell you how many people come up to me after they find out that I live in Old College and say, 'Oh! You are going to be a priest! That is so great!"' he eontinued with a laugh. "What they don't get is that we an~ in the process of figuring out what we want to do with ourselves just as much as they arc. We don't have the answers yet. Not any­wlH~re close." 
Old College is billed as a formation program by the Holy Cross community in St. .Joseph County; this means that young men spend their time in resi­dence actively living life in religious community before their candidate year 
( '\:i, 
. ·, " ~
•': ".,_ 
IS;. 1:,' \• ': 
\ 

l 1 ," 
·.· 
at a Holy Cross seminary. 

"The goal of Old College is to help young men discern between the priest­hood and another vocation," said Father Hobert Moss, rector of Old College. "But we also want them to. experience college life; that's why Old College offers more of a relaxed living environment." 
Balancing Act 

When faced with the primary purpose of Old College, it is difficult to under­stand how such an undertaking could be considered "relaxed." Old Collegians are required to attend early-morning and late-night prayer sessions, as well as dinners called "community nights" twice a week. This, combined with daily masses, gives Old Cdllegians more on their schedules than the typical Domer. Add on the normal extra-curricular activities like sports and choir. and it seems like these guys shouldn't have time to sleep, much less pray. 
"It is definitely hard to balance every­thing," remarked Old College junior Caly Nguyen. "But Old College chal­lenges you to question your priorities. That is something that everyone strug­gles with. Maybe we are all just a little closer to figuring it out. .. 
Learning about the priesthood is something of a full-time job for these young men. While other students try to figure out whether they want to become English professors or electrical engi­neers, Old Collegians are struggling with a potential life-time choice. 
"Some people see seminary programs as an easy job, as something you do if you can't do anything else," Donner said. "But Old College is strictly with who they take and why. You have to have a pretty strong commitment before they even consider you. 
"I think one of the things they look for is a sense of balance," he continued. explaining that there is a danger of mis­placed values both inside and out of the Church. The last thing you want is someone who will never leave Old College. A good candidate has to feel comfortable outside in the real world." 

Girls, Girls, Girls 

Dealing with real-world situations is something that these men are forced to deal with in their house, as the biggest decision of their young lives looms clos­er and closer each day: the decision to become a priest. While Notre Dame stu­dents struggle with declarations of majors and class schedules, the Old College resident tries to figure out if he wants to wear a wedding band or a Homan collar. 
"There is this perception of Old College guys," said Nate Wills, an Old College junior. "Almost whenever you tell someone that you live in Old College, they're like, 'Oh my gosh! You can't talk to girls!"' 
Girls. Something the Old Collegian should not be concerned with. Something the seminary prospect should dare not think about. After all, these men have enlisted themselves into the Holy Cross formation program because they really want to become priests, priests who make formal vows of celibacy to protect themselves against the desire for the female flesh. They do not want to have anything to do with girls. 
But Wills believes that this theory is a myth and also one of the most common misconceptions about the purpose of the Old College program. 
"The program is set up to be very human and understanding about a eol­lege student's interest and needs," he said. "A guy who is 18 or 19 years old is not ready to make a commitment to anything, whether it be human sexuali­ty or the priesthood. Old College under­stands this and is there to help sort out these decisions." 
Contrary to popular belief, Old Collegians are allowed to date. But seri­ous relationships are discouraged because of the possible implications and the primary purpose of the program: formation and discernment of a life in the clergy. 
"Old College is not asking you to make this decision right now," Wills said. "But I think it is important to devote yourself to the question, to ask yourself what really makes you happy." 

Hard Choices 
But maintaining a balanced social and academic life while fulfilling the duties of Old College is not a guaran­teed ticket to the priesthood. The for­mation program at Old College is just the first step in a process that can take longer than medical school to complete. 
"Most people think we've signed on the dotted line, that we are already priests the minute we step into Old College," Donner said. "But the truth is. this is only the f'irst stop in a long process. And a Jot decide that !the priesthood) is not for thmn." 
During their junior year at Old College, the program participants decide whether or not they want to petition to spend their senior year at Moreau seminary. And even after three years of Old College life, moving on proves to be a diiTicult decision. 
"Not all Old Collegians want to go on to the seminary. or are ready to go on," Moss said. "We are hem to help them make that decision." 
Nguyen will not be joining his fBIIow housnmates next year at Moreau Seminary; after three years of juggling a challenging major, his father's serious illness and the expectations of Old College, Nguyen has finally decided that it is time for him to rest. 
"I haven't really given myself a defi­nite yes or no to the question of tlw pri1~sthood." Nguyen said. "Since my fathnr's illness,. I've had a real down period [in my faith!." 
Old College is not a plaee for weak eonvietions. but it is a plac.e that helps young adults figurn out what they want. And Nguyen thinks that, if nothing else, Old College has made his lifn purpos1~ a little clearer. 
"I do not regret my time at Old College," he said. "It has lwlped me become stronger in my faith. But !Old College! is also a time-consuming thing; it forees you to prioritize. My faith is definitely a priority, but I am not sum that the seminary is a priority right now." 
They may or may not choose to lw priests. But whatev1~r d1~eision thes1~ young men makn regarding tlwir futures. tlwy are certain to bn comfort­able with their faith as well as their life goals. Som1~ of thPm may end up mar­ried, a few may search for themselves well beyond Old College and Notre Dame. But they all had a unique experi­ence: They have made a conscious effort to explore a vocation that has called to them in some capacity. They were brave enough to make the sacri­fice. 
And they arc normal enough to admit that it may not be the right choice. 
Tlw ClhsPrvt>r/.lohn !>ail\ 

S
even male Domers reside in the building known as Old College. Old College, often misunderstood, is a perfect environment for Notre Dame male students who are contemplating · entering the priesthood, but for the guys who live there, it is simply home. 
a 

THE OBSERVER 

hen students support or 
dislike an administrative actions, they can express their sentiments through numerous avenues, most notably through rallies or speak-outs. 
But the administration, an integral part of the Notre Dame community and regulator of its standards and policy, is often seen as 
. one faceless group that holds a uniform, unexplained opinion. 
Further, that viewpoint solidifies in the minds of students if administrators choose to remain silent about their decisions, many 
S p e c 1 a 

of which directly affect campus life. 
However. their silence does not mean they have nothing to say. Most elected and appointed officials, when asked, will state the reasons behind their decisions and poli­cy choices. Some are personal, some reli­gious, some practical. 
Here, in the last of a three-part series, The Observer hopes to illuminate the adminis­trative side of the homosexual experience at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, for through­out the ranks of Notre Dame's hierarchy are people expected to serve student and faculty needs, while at the same time keeping strict adherence to Catholic doctrine. 
S e c t o n 

t h e administration 



ill Kirk's Notre Dame experience spans two decades, each of which pro­vided a different perspective on student issues at the University. 
In the 1990s, as an administrator, he saw gay and lesbian issues rise to the forefront and handled requests for student rallies in favor of legal protection for homosexuals facing discrimination -the largest of 
which took place one year ago today. But during Kirk's undergraduate and graduate years at Notre Dame in the 1980s, those issues seemed shrouded in silence. 'There was no real mention of homosexuality back then. Terms were bandied about 
more freely then, terms that have hateful or harmful meanings," he said. ''You'd hear people referred to as 'faggots' without a thought to the weight that carried." 
He recalled campus-wide rumors that speculated on the sexuality of someone in one residence hall, or which stereotyped an entire dormitory. 
"Students were far less sensitive then," he said. "We heard these urban legends about some students com­ing out [of the closet), and there were immature com­ments. 
"A lot of people suffered in silence," he said. 
In 1991, right around the time Kirk says gay and les­bian issues on campus became preeminent, Notre Dame offered Kirk his current position: assistant vice president for Residence Life, which falls under the Of­fice of Student Affairs. 
And through that role, he has witnessed the Univer­sity's responses to the call for consideration of the rights of homosexual students. 
He moved from being a student himself to being part of an administration often accused of intolerance toward gays, a charge he feels is unwarranted. 
'The University calls me to administrate in a way consistent with my faith," Kirk said. 'That faith calls me and others to live up to the highest standards, so I know I won't face ethical issues because this place holds the teaching of my faith as its structure." 
He defined his interpretation of the Church's stance on homosexuals, a point of view also delineated by Fa­ther Edward Malloy in the Spirit of Inclusion state­ment if August 1997. 
"It's my understanding that the [sexual] orientation itself is not sinful, but that an unchaste life is," he said. "It's just as wrong for me to engage in sexual acts out­side wedlock as it is for a gay man. 
"Marriage does also call for procreativity, an option that doesn't exist for gays," Kirk allowed, "and I imag­ine it's tough to reconcile that. Church teaching is hard because it's counter-cultural at times and it can be hard to live up to. Fortunately, ours is a faith that helps is deal with the times when we struggle to live up to its very high standards. 
"But sex acts outside marriage are the issue, not ho­mosexuality itself," he said. As such, Kirk sees the Spirit of Inclusion as a docu­ment that positively reflects Catholic teaching, tran-
The Observer 2 Special Section 
scending the civil law whose protection homosexual 
students seek at Notre Dame. 
'There is such emphasis on civil law, and yes, those protections are important, but the Gospel holds us to higher standards and higher values, calling for things civil law can't even attempt to address," he said. 'That's what the Spirit of Inclusion does. It appeals to our morals and asks that we live up to these high stan­dards in all facets of life. 
"Church teaching is hard because it's counter-cul­tural at times. It is hard to live up to that, but it frus­trates me when people brush aside that collective wis­dom," he said. ''We all have deeply personal issues we must address, and they can be hard to deal with, but we must do it in a way that adheres to Catholic tradi­
.tion. " 
The statement is a positive one, but enforcing it every day at Notre Dame is a difficult task to under­take, according to Kirk. By the nature of his Residence Life duties, his encounters with the concepts outlined in the statement are mostly negatively oriented. 
"The University doesn't accept harassment or threats. Spirit of Inclusion is an affirmative statement, but when people come before Residence Life, it's be­cause they failed to live up to the policy," he said. ''We deal with people falling short of the document, rather than those who try to positively enforce it every day." 
As far as welcoming homosexual students and in­creasing tolerance in the community, Kirk pointed to efforts by Residence Life to educate rectors and resi­dent assistants about dealing with the sexuality issues of students. 
"Student Affairs wanted to present a piece at resi­dence hall staff orientation. It's been done the last cou­ple of years and it's been helpful to those people," he said. ''We have a good system here of 27 rectors, joined by a number of assistant rectors and resident assis­tants. They're there for people to talk to and confide in, and I hope students really do that." 
Kirk did not receive any similar training during his days as an assistant rector, and recalled no students who came and directly asked for help in dealing with sexuality or discrimination. 
•

"I think perhaps students came to me with those questions, but they were masking it under other de­velopmental issues. They were probably afraid to be open and honest about it, which is more a product of society's attitudes in general, but now people are more open and understanding, and I hope that means stu­dents can go to their hall staff for help," Kirk said. 
He acknowledged that the University may have been late in addressing some gay and lesbian issues, such as revision of the non-discrimination clause or the stance on student-run homosexual groups, but said the process is by no means over. 
"Student Affairs was so focused on implementing things in the right way, the best way, that the office may have gotten a late start in addressing some things," he said. "But we've got gay and lesbian stu­dents involved, and Campus Ministry too, so I think we've handled things in the right way." 
t h e administration 





atr1c1a 
' 


and lesbians at Notre Dame, the abstract concept of "the administration" takes a physical shape in the person of Professor Patricia O'Hara, vice pres­ident of student affairs. O'Hara responds to resolutions from the Campus Life Council, established the ad hoc committee on gay and lesbian student needs, responded to that committee's recom­
and directs an office which is responsible for just about every aspect of student life. 
As such, she has been blamed and blasted by stu­dents and faculty alike for many of the problems that exist between gay students and the University. 
In establishing the ad hoc committee and implement­ing many of its suggestions, O'Hara hopes that she has found an answer these problems in accordance with Uni­versity policy. But she knows that any answer will not come that easily. 
"It is still very difficult [for homosexuals at Notre DameI," she said. "We have made some inroads with ini­tiatives that we have begun in the last two years. But I know that we still have a long way to go in creating a wel­coming community here." 
With noticeable pride, O'Hara detailed the efforts of her office, the standing committee, Campus Ministry and the Counseling Center toward creating such an en­vironment These efforts include a gay and lesbian Uni­versity group, increased hall staff training, creatiorrof a therapeutic group and religious retreats. 
The standing committee, which sponsors lectures about issues pertaining to sexuality and the new NET­WORK initiative, includes as members some homosex­ual students. 
'They have been absolutely invaluable," O'Hara said of the student volunteers. 'We couldn't do it without them. Their willingness to share has not only been to educate, but their insights have also been pivotal in de­veloping our outreach efforts to gay and lesbian stu­dents. Personally I think it has been vital." 
She went on to describe the programs instituted by campus ministry, whose director, Father Richard Warn­er, is also a member of the standing committee. 
'They offer confidential group meetings to interested undergraduate gay and lesbian students that it advertis­es weekly in its 'Considerations' column," she said. 'They also sponsored a retreat last spring and plan to offer a similar retreat [this weekend]." 
She described a support group called "prism" that the Counseling Center has been trying to start for gay and lesbian students as well as for students with questions about sexuality. 
But O'Hara focused most of her attention on the pro­grams that her office has attempted in the past two years. 
'We have tried to do more education and training of hall staff," she said. 'To that end we have sponsored pro­fessional development sessions for rectors to deal with the psycho-sexual development of college-aged students in general." 
She also described aU-day workshops with outside consultants for rectors and sessions in resident assistant orientation on how they can assist gay and lesbian stu­dents in their sections. 
O'Hara was proudest of the recently created NET­WORK initiative. This program plans to create a group of trained faculty and staff members who are willing to en­gage in ''welcoming and respectful dialogue about issues relating to sexuality." 
Forty members of the Notre Dame community have already undergone the NEIWORK training and O'Hara hopes that this group will take off. 
"The standing committee hopes to expand NET­WORK to include more people next academic year and plans to hold additional training sessions next year for new participants," she said. 

,.
"I hope that these efforts taken as a whole will reflect our desire to create a more inclusive environment on campus. There is still alot more to do, but I hope that we will be able to sustain these initiatives and even to ex­pand them," O'Hara added. 


• 
lC 






e knows there is some discrimination at Notre Dame and in the world. He doesn't accept it, but he knows it exists. 
"It's hard to find a society without discrimina­tion," he said. "Does it exist at Notre Dame? Of course. But is it legit­
imized or authorized? No." 
As Counselor to the President, Father Richard Warner is necessarily familiar with the state ofgay and lesbian issues at the University; as director of Campus Ministry, he is directly involved in pro­grams he says· can combat discrimina­tion and foster a welcoming atmosphere for homosexuals. 
"Campus Ministry pastoral support began four years ago, and it's a very good thing for us to do," he said. 'We welcome all gay and lesbian or question­ing students, we listen and hear what they have to say, and we invite them to bring heterosexual friends into the group as well. 
"It's challenging for gay and lesbian undergraduates, in the sense that there are many self esteem issues -feeling alone, like they're the only [homosexu­al) on campus," he said. "Ifs critical to have people realize they need confi­dence in God's love for them." 
Warner prefers to ascribe any discom­fort homosexuals might feel at Notre Dame to those personal struggles. Church teachings do not reject homo­sexuals, according to Warner, so Catholi­cism and homosexuality are not mutual­ly exclusive. 
'The problem lies in this: Ifs not clear to all homosexual students how they can live out their lives and still be in accor­dance with Church teaching," he said. "Just as for heterosexual students, Catholicism calls homosexuals to high standards that can be difficult 
'There is no culpability with someone 
... 
who's gay or lesbian," Warner contin­ued. "I don't think there should be any problem between a person and their [sexual] orientation." 
As such, Warner thinks the four years of college spark a transition into "adult christianity," where all students can bet­ter understand and internalize the myri­ad theological positions on Church teachings. 
Campus Ministry's pastoral counsel­ing, coupled with meetings held "under our own auspices" with gays and les­bians and a retreat designed for those students, plays a key role in helping ho­mosexual students understand that the Church does not reject them, Warner said. 
'The atmosphere at these student-run retreats is extraordinary," he said. 'We help people see and hear words used in the context of welcome and support I have contact with so many [gays and les­bians here I and I care about them all. I don't want to be someone who's not on their side," he said. 
Also fostering a welcoming atmos­phere, Warner believes, is Father Mal­loy's Spirit of Inclusion statement, which calls for an end for all discrimination, in­cluding that based on sexuality. 
The most prevalent criticism of the statement is its non-legally binding na­ture, which some homosexual students say makes the document impossible to truly enforce. 
"Ifs true that one cannot enforce any­thing that is, by nature, a spirit," Warner said. "But the Spirit ofInclusion holds up to all of us an ideal, not of what we are like, but of what we aspire to be -who · we must try to be because of a deeper calling in our religions beliefs." 
It is a positive step, but Warner knows the University has more yet to take. 
"Never will we be the ideal communi­ty we want to be. Sometimes the admin­istration is in the lead, but the students have helped Notre Dame move ahead by uncovering other elements of truth. 
"Still, ifs foolish to think we are where we can be." 

The O~server 3 Special Section 
t h e administration 


ather Richard McBrien wrote the book on Catholicism. Literally. His 1,286-page publication has sold more than 150,000 copies, according to 
... 
the book's cover. It has undergone one revisions and spawned his 200-level theology class of the same title. 
To be sure, he understands and embraces Church teachings; that does not mean he always accepts the way others interpret or apply them. And when it came to the issue of adding sexual orientation to the University's non-dis­crimination clause, McBrien openly disagreed with Notre Dame. 
In spring 1997, under McBrien's leadership and in ·solidarity with other campus governing bodies, the Faculty Senate drafted a resolution calling for the in­clusion of sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause, something Notre Dame later decided against. 
'The thing that bothers me in this whole contro­versy is that, ifNotre Dame's policy towards gays and lesbians was entirely consistent with the policies adopted by other Catholic universities around the country, then I might say, 'well, I might think it's too restrictive, the gays and lesbians at Notre Dame might think it's too restrictive, but this is in fact the operative policy at other Catholic universities,"' McBrien said. 
"However, it is, for all practical purposes, just Notre Dame. It is almost as though we have to be more Catholic than the other Catholic universities, and that is an implied criticism," he stated. 
Catholicism views homosexuality as a human con­dition that nobody chooses for themselves, according to McBrien. 
'The Catholic Church does not teach that homo­sexuals are perverts or evil people," he said. 'There is nothing sinful about being a homosexual, just as there is nothing sinful about being a heterosexual. Sin only comes into play as an issue if the homosexu­al or the heterosexual expresses his or her sexuality outside the bonds of marriage." 
As such, the only demand made by the Church specifically on gays and lesbians is a life of celibacy, McBrien said. 
He firmly believes homosexuals can and should become priests, should they feel the calling to do so, but he discouraged the notion that clergy members should choose that vocation solely as a way to feel comfortable with celibacy. 
"Just like there is nothing wrong with being a ho­mosexual, there is nothing wrong with being a homo­sexual priest," McBrien said. "A priest, like Father [David] Garrick, can go public and say 'I am a gay priest, although celibate and I want to say this,' not because he has any inner need to say, 'hey, I'm gay' but rather because he made a pastoral decision. · 
"He thought that by his coming out, as a gay priest, 
The Observer 4 Special Section 
he could give courage to gay and lesbian students to accept their own situation without self-loathing," he added. 
Although he stated that he is not a homosexual himself and that questions about the homosexual ex­perience at Notre Dame would best be posed to those students and faculty who experience it, he does have a solid opinion on the status of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame . 
"I think that it's getting worse. When they were de­nied any continued access to space that they had been using for several years, I think it began to go downhill again," he said. "From when I came in 1980, until that event [the 1993 ejection of GLND/SMC], there was not a lot of talk about gays and lesbians on campus. Maybe I was insulated from it, but it kind of a non-issue. I never heard much said about it. 
'That act is what precipitated a whole new wave of controversy about the status of gays and lesbians at Notre Dame," he added. 'They had that space for sev­eral years and suddenly they were told they couldn't use it any more." 
McBrien continued that because of such decisions, he believed that homosexual students and faculty at Notre Dame feel marginalized and treated as though they were, "second-class citizens." 
In "Catholicism," McBrien describes three theo­logical approaches to the Church teaching on homo­sexuality. 
The first approach, which he attributes to Saint Thomas Aquinas, is a conservative view that calls ho­mosexual acts sinful in themselves. 
The second is a very liberal approach that calls ho­mosexual acts morally neutral and claims that the "morality of the act depends upon the quality of the relationship." 
The final approach has been described by Charles Curran as a "theology of compromise." It claims that homosexual acts are essentially imperfect, some more imperfect than others. 
McBrien thinks he most approves of the third posi­tion, calling for some consideration of the circum­stances involved. He further indicated that he be­lieves that University policies towards gay and les­bian students and faculty have taken a myopic and generalized view of homosexuals. 
"Ifyou could probe the mind of Jesus, would he say there would be degrees of morality in homosexual be­havior? I believe so," McBrien said. "A homosexual who is engaged in predatory behavior, takes advan­tage of his position and engages in homosexual activ­ity with young people-students perhaps-that is of a very different order than two homosexual adults who have a loving and stable relationship. 
'The tendency of some people is to say that it is all equally perverse, and perverted," he added. "I can't imagine Jesus coming to that position." 


5@one 
Friday, April 24, 1998 --------------~OBSERVER ------------------page13
•



In the world 

They're not priests yet, but one day they might be ... 
.... 

Top: Old Collegians celebrate mass at the Moreau Seminary last night. 
Above right: Four Old Collegians take a walk. From left to right: junior Mike Milanowski, fresh­man James Chisholm, junior Nate Wills and sophomore Philip Donner. ­Middle right: Milanowksi keeps up on his studies. Below right: Chisholm (left) and Wills (right) surf the Internet. Above left: Wills makes the sign of the cross during an Old College mass. 
Photos The Observer/John Daily 
~ ----~~


The Observer/John Daily The highly recruited Jarious Jackson has waited for his chance, and he hopes he can lead his talented classmates to a more successful 1998. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
"Our class has always been a tight-knit group since we came in together," Minor comment­ed. "I think we know each other very well and the charac­ter we have in this class will be able to help this team." 
This year's 7-6 record, com­bined with only one player being selected in the NFL draft, displays the weakness of the Class of 1998 and the importance of seniors in the 
page 14 
Football 
continued from page 24 
native stepped into a starting role at the outside linebacker position. Minor has started 35 of 36 games since arriving in the fall of 1995 and will pro­vide tremendous leadership for next year's defense. 
football program. 
"Well that's a good class," head coach Bob Davin said about his group of seniors. "The biggest strength that class has is that it's been able to stay together and there's been some continuity to it." 
Davie hopes that this bond will aid in the team's develop­ment and improvement next year. 
"Because of that, they'vo been able to develop some leadership, some camaraderie, and they've developed as play­ers," Davie continued. "So compared to last year's class, where over half of it had left, this class has stayed together. The only two defections were Randy Moss and .James Jackson, who never came to campus." 
Their first three years at Notre Dame have not gone according to plan. The head coach changed, they watched several classmates' careers come to ends due to injuries, and they suffered through one of the worst losing streaks in Notre Dame's history. 
"Whenever you have a sea­son like we did last year, it's really disappointing and we know that we're a much better team than that," Denson said. "I think we had the talent last year, but we didn't go out and show it. I think what we learned from that was that you can't take anything for grant­ed." 
Friday, April 24, 1998 
plish. As it turns out, it's a very simple objective. 
"Now we're seniors and now we know things haven't gone the way we've wanted," Minor said. 
"You think you'll come to Notre Dame and win .the National Championship," he continued. "Our goal is to go out this year and play good football and hope to win as many games as possible." 
Another Class of 1999 mem­ber that made his name known early was Autry Denson. Simply too good to keep off the field, Denson started four games as a freshman running back, something .unheard of at Notre Dame, where there has always been a long line of tal­ented runners. Denson has his eyes on Irish record books as he needs to average just 90 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing rel[mds. 
ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­ $$$$$$$$  
NOTICES  2-4 Roomates to share house. 2.5 blks from cmps, low rent, clean.  TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM­ FOR SALE  I will buy your extra graduation tick­ South Bend's annual outdoor event  
x1998  PUS, CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL  ets. Call Jenny @ 687-8435.  of the year will be taking place this  
UPS UPS UPS  277·8340  Beautiful brass bed, queen size.  Saturday at Turner's American, just  
with orthopedic mattress set and  My 7 siblings all want to go to grad­ east of Ironwood on the south side  
Sales/Marketing Internships  Bed & Breakfast for ND graduation  deluxe frame. New, never used. still  uation. Extra Tix? Call Matt 4-3648  of the toll road. Gates open at  
NO DOUBT -BEST RATES  University Directories is hiring stu­ & Football. 3 miles from ND. 287­ plastic. $225  10:00 am and the music starts soon  
COUNTRY HARVESTER  dents to sell yellow page advertis­ing for the official campus tele­ 4545  219-862-2082  PERSONAL  thereafter with  
1-6714 LaFortune  phone directory this summer. Paid  HOUSE LEASE 4BR 2BA PT  STOMPER BOB  
internship. Training program.  FURN W/D/ DNJ WALK-NO AVAIL  94 GEO PRIZM 29K $8900 obo, 1­ Looking for person to transcribe five  at11:00 am  
Shipping UPS thru 5-20  Excellent sales/marketing & man­ 6/1 GRAD PREF  7563  50-minute classes; must use  
agement experience. Call  (773)288-8822  WordPerfect; $30 per class; call  GRAVITY HILL  
-THE COPY SHOP - 1-800-7 43-5556 Ext. 143 or visit  ·coMPUTER: Mac laptop w/  evenings, 291-9398; ask for Mark  at1:30 pm  
LaFortune Student Center  www.universitydirectories.com  5 bedroom house for rent for 98-99,  modem &printer included $1,200  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE.  1 05 Marquette 232-6964  OBO  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  and  
AND WEEKENDS'!!  MODELS NEEDED! Female and  ·siKE: Huffy mountain b. $100  Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor  
Men -Thur 7:30am -Midnight  Male Models for an upcoming  Room for rent in 5 bdrm house.  OBO  play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID-1/2  UMPHREY'S McGEE  
Fri 7:30am · 7:00pm  A VEDA production. Model calls are  Kitch, Washer, Dryer, Safe  •NINTENDO for SALE!  price field fee.  at4:00 pm  
Sat Noon -6:00pm  being held now. Have fun and get  Nghbrhd, close to campus. All  271-7677 Maria  291-2540.  
Sun Noon -Midnight  a great new look. Please call 1-800­ Util. incl. $200. avail. now.  Come out and celebrate the area's  
CALL 631-COPY  356-5533 ext 1209 for information.  Paul Roy-232-2794  Hey -did you know...  best music, best party and best day  
of the year!  
"To Be CONtinued ..."  Want to live in Turtle Creek  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR  We're open early, late, and week·  
General SF convenl(on April24-26.  Fall Semester?  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF  93 Toyota Corrolla LE. 67K,  ends for your convenience!  
Ramada Inn, 52890 US 31/33.  We want to live there in the spring.  ND 2773097  great condittion, $8800.00  -THE COPY SHOP ·­ 
272-5220 tor rooms, or 272-7399  Let's share a lease.  21 9 656-4255  LaFortune Student Center  If you haven't yet noticed, it's Mike's  
tor into on the con. Guests:  x2985  Phone 631-COPY  left thumb that is shorter than his  
Geoffrey Landis, Rick McCollum,  COLLEGE PARK APT  92 Lincoln Continental, 67K,  right. You should have known this  
Diana Stein, Michael Longcor.  Male Student to be a Big Brother for  AVAIL FOR SUMMER  excellent conditition $9300.00  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  already, though, because this  
Panels, Art Show, Dealer's Room,  a 12-yr old in SB. Start in the Fall.  BEST OFFER 4-1314  219 656-4255  babbling brooks in summer.  accounts for his unmatched skills in  
Costume contest, Dance, open  You can have a great  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­ multilayered snare drum popping,  
gaming area~  impact. Call 243-4779.  3 BDRM HOME, SAFE AREA,  place in winter. Love and joy for  which he clearly could not do if his  
http:!/www.nd.edu/-rjervis  NEAR ND & UP MALL.  Brand new Tl-92 calculator with  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ lett thumb were any bigger than it  
ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT Now Renting  AVAIL 8//20-5/20. $1000 PER MO. & UTIL. CALL 407-673-1779.  manual and cables. best offer. Call Todd at 634-1683  ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen att­800-484-7011 Pin #4523  now is. If this interests you, then it would be a good idea to come out to  
Campus View  Furn. Rm  MICKEY'S PUB  
DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG  1 & 2 Bedrooms  Wash/Dry  84 Nissan Sentra 4dr.  on Saturday  
IRISH JACKET AT SENIOR BAR  2 Blocks from campus  Private Bath  $1200.  LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE  
ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT? IF YOU  272-1441  Kitchen  Greg 288-3408  '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR?  and become the thumb with  
DID, PLEASE CALL  $350/Eiec  THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is  
4-4692.  Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home.  Karen 284-6257, 273-4517(eve)  1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM  now accepting applications for next  UMPHREY'S McGEE  
2 blks from campus 273-1566  2 BATH CONDO VAULTED  fall. Student positions are limited  
LOST WOMEN'S GOLD AND SIL­ SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS:  GREAT ROOM W/ FRPL FOR  so apply early.  The show starts at 10:00 pm, so get  
VER SEIKO WATCH SINCE TUES­ CHEAP SUMMER HOUSING­ College Park Apt. for lease this  SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX  there early, kids!  
DAY APRIL 14th  large, furnished house for any num­ summer. Fully furnished.  235-3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY  
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DINO  ber (3+) spotless w/ entertainment  Reasonably priced. To inquire, call  4/261-3 PM  ADOPTION IS LOVE  If you or anyone you know lost  
@4633  system, WD, and deluxe kitchen.  243-7720.  Happily married ND Alumni couple,  Birkenstocks in front of the pavilion  
YOU'LL BE HAPPY!!  Rent negotiable. 289-7136 Jack or  SPACIOUS CONDO  with adopted 3 year old daughter,  at St. Pat's park on 4/20, please call  
Dave  walk to campus  wants to shower a new baby with  John Roach at 287-3440. He is  
A black bookbag was lost on North  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  Diane Killilea 272-5444  love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic  excited to find their original owner.  
Quad this Wednesday. If found­ ALL SIZE HOMES  FURN. ALARM W/D, $180/PER­ lawyer dad, and a sister to play  
please call 4-32.44.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  SON. 272-6551  with. Friends on the swingset, "'"'ps  a big Hlto my favorite poet in the  
232-2595  to the zoo. grandma. play groups,  land of the world's biggest pint  
97 Mitsu Eclipse, CD, pwr sunrf,  lullabies, too. This is a home where  -the rhode islander  
WANTED  Furn. room. air, kitchen, private entrance, phone, laundry facilities,  OFF CAMPUS STUDENT RENTAL  loaded, alum whls. warranty. Best Offer, Chris 291-4307 or 1­ wishes come true. We'd like to get to know you. Call Shawn & Meg  k-mac and "the sexiest girl on long  
utilities included. $200/mo.  3 NEW PROPERTIES  9795  800-767-4257.  island"--slow jams this afternoon??  
- Anyone interning in Chicago looking 4 a roommate?  272-0615.  PROPERTY-1 .. .4-5 STUDENTS PROPERTY-2...6-8 STUDENTS  Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid.  oh yeah! OH YEAH!!!!  
Call Mike X3584  1 ,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR  PROPERTY-3 ....... 2 STUDENTS  Earn Free Computer, Monitor and  I don't want you to be like the guy in  
CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  SECURITY SYSTEMS, STOVE  Livingrm, bedrm. and diningrm.  Printer. Call:255-6455  the PG-13 movie that everyone  
Need a fulfilling job? N.D. families  272-6551  AND REFRIGERATOR. NICE  furniture for sale. Prices  really hopes makes it happen. I  
looking tor responsible, caring,  CONDITION.  negotiable. Call 243-5719.  UPS ON CAMPUS ALWAYS  want you to be like the guy in the  
energetic students to work w/ spe­ FREE SUMMER STORAGE  CALL DAVE OR CAROLYN  rated R movie, that you're not sure  
cial needs children during summer and next year. Ideal for anyone interested in Education, Speech,  '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR. WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE. 234-3831/ 273-0482  291-2209  TICKETS  Dare to Compare our rates with other shippers and save $ $ $  you like yet. Now go get those digets  
OT. or Sensory. All families are in need of reliable. trusting students  4BR house close to ND.  DUPLEX: $575 FOR EACH THREE BEDROOM UNIT.  COUNTRY HARVESTER Xt-6714 LaFortune  Now if you miss this shot you'll have gotten beaten not once, but  
with a special interest in helping kids. Please call Kim Lawton @ 277·4552 or  grad students only unfurnished. 233-t 727 1 ,300  VERY CLEAN~ WALK TO CAM­PUS. CONSCIENTIOUS OWNER. 675-0776  GRADUATION TIX NEEDED CALL LAURIE @ 243-4788  Extended hours final week Open Senior Week thru 5-20  twice by a slow, white, geeky chump.  
273·4848.  



• 
360° Stadium Theater • Strategy Clinic 

• 
Training Center • Bowl Games & National 

• 
Pigskin Pageantry Championships 

• 
Hall of Champions • Great Moments FREE SHUITLE TO THE HALL OF FAME! 


just a FREE SHUITLE ride away! 
12 noon -8:30 P.M. (Friday Only!) 
Bus will pick up and drop offat the Main Circle east ofAlumni Hall on Notre Dame Ave. 
NOTRE DAME to Hall of Fame 
12:00 NOON 
1:00 P.M. 2:00P.M. 

• ~ :11 •1 . ,·a 3:00P.M. ··~I{W 4:00P.M. 
-,.... 
5:00P.M. 6:00P.M. 7:00P.M. 
HALL OF FAME to Notre Dame 
12:30 P.M. 
1:30 P.M. 2:30P.M. 3:30P.M. 4:30P.M. 5:30P.M. 6:30P.M. 7:30P.M. 8:30P.M. 


page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 24, 1998 
• SAINT MARY's TENNIS 

Belles look to begin conference play with confidence 

BY VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Spons Writer 
Overeome with frustration. This is the only phrase that ean describe exactly how the Saint Mary's Tennis team is feeling. The Belles could not pull out of their slump to defeat Albion College. losing 1-8 in their game yesterday. 
This match was key for the team as they head toward con­fnrence play next weekend at !lope College. The Belles were hoping to end their season with a win to go into the conference on a positive note. Despite the loss. this eould still be possible. 
"I am a little concerned that this last match will get the girls' spirits down and wear on their minds going into conference," said head coach Robin I lyrcko. 
Although llyrcko will not be able to continue with the team through this last week of prac­tices and conference play, she has high hopes for her team. 
"It's really hard leaving them at this point in the season because they're like my chil­dren," said Hyrcko. "This week during captain's practices, I want the girls to focus on fun­damentals. consistency and confidence. If they do these things, I know they will do well." 
Hyrcko continued on to say that although the team has not been winning the last few matches, they have been improving. The team's inexperi­ence has played a major factor in every match, but llyrcko is confident that everything will eventually fall into place for the team. 
-
The Belles inexperience, which led to extreme frustra­tion for some team members during the match, was some­thing that Albion used to their advantage. Albion managed to lind every inch of the court and take every ounce of momentum. 
The Belles fought as hard as they could. Determination and killer instinct were ingrained in their minds and evident in their facial expression, but frustra­tion was also apparent. 
Junior co-captain Betsy Gemmer was overcome by frus­tration during periods of both her doubles and singles match­es. Gemmer and fellow co-cap­tain, sophomore Katie Vales, played a grueling match at No.1 doubles. It was literally a volley war at the net; unfortunately, Albion seemed to dictate that war at key points during the match. The score ended up in favor of Albion, 1-6, 2-6. This is only the second loss for the No. 1 doubles team all season. 
Gemmer's frustration from the doubles loss carried over into her singles play. She played tough but did not appear to be with her normal game or mindset. She fell short in the end, with a score of 6-4, 6-7, (3­7). 
A bright spot, despite the frustrating day, was a win at No. 1 singles by Vales. Vales was clearly out for revenge after her loss at No. 1 doubles. If Albion was going to take this match from her. it was not going to be like taking candy from a baby. With this determi­nation, Vales pulled through with outstanding play, winning 6-4, 6-3. 



approach next weekend confi­dent and aggressive. We're going to work hard at practice this week and just do the best we can." 

Vales had encouraging thoughts in relation to the upcoming conference play. 
"It's a little nerve-wracking knowing that Robin won't be with us," said Vales, "but I think our team will do well. Although we have been losing, we really have been progress­ing as a team. We just have to 

4/24 Friday The Elite Eight 
Fol Awards and intr ucing the all Championship Trophy a Bookstore, Mr. Fritz H 
Office of Information Technologies 
~";i~;~:f~~~ J:, 
Has this ever hap:l)enedto you? Arkie, COBA, DeBartolo, Hesburgh & Lafortune are all closed and you need a 
.~hdows·~Hm'puter NOW??!! 
(SHHH, IF YOU PROMISE NOT TO TELL ANY­ONE I'LL LET YOU IN ON A SECRET.) 


hc)u·r 
There are Windows computers available all night and all weekend in G015 CCMB. 
c<Jt11.pttter 
Open 6 pm -7 am on weekdays, and 24 hours on the weekend. Enter CCMB via the south doors and head downstairs. (Just don't tell anyone else.) 
access 
Office of Information Technologies 

------------•-• •--•--• • • • • ••• • • • a • ••••• • •••.•••••••• e. •-• •••-• ......, ...................._.,,...._......J~•·•-"·•••.I.JII.JI.I' ..I"'.II_.J'I..'I..,'fl.:tiiiJI.....•J'~. 
' ~· .. dt
• 



XlVII 


HPP f .i>~ limA .vRhi1i 
:;iT\lnq:;~ ~ ~---~---"' _, ...... 
( C..,T"f"'

Friday, April 24, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• Mo.!'s lAcRossE 
Notre Dame looks to cap season with lVinning streak 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sports Writer 
Although only two games remain in the Notre Dame lacrosse season, the Irish are 
CONGRATULATIONS 
to the NOTRE DAME HOLOCAUST PROJECT 
for recognizing revisionism and providing access to revisionist sites on the Internet, such as CODOH, as resources available to students and scholars. 
Christians and Jews have learned to respect each other's conscience and agree to disagree over such important issues as the trial of Jesus of Nazareth. 
Scholars associated with the Holocaust Project and revisionists are now able to respectfully disagree about such topics as the Nuremberg trials. Surely, this is all for the best. 
Bradley R. Smith Committee for the Open Discussion of the Holocaust (CO DOH) http://www.codoh.com 

Half a Nerf Football 
The Oris olds 
Your bestfriend after downingsixteen all-you-can-eattacos. 
Some thingsjust don 't travel well. 
We do. 

Credit Cards Auto Loans First Mortgages Internet Banking 24-Hour Loan-By-Phone Touch-Tone Teller 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 www.ndfcu.org 1il
LENDER 

e-mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net Independent of the University 
looking to turn their season down the No. 2 team in the Ivy 
around, ending their three-game League. The Crimson, on the slide with a two game winning other hand, are looking to make streak. a return to the championships. 
The Irish travel to Harvard (8-For an Irish squad that is used 
3) this Saturday, looking to take to working to secure a berth in the post-season at this time of the season, they are adjusting to their new role as a spoiler. 
"We have a chance to ruin everyone's season now," senior co-captain Todd Rassas said. "Now we do it [upseat] to them." 
To do that, the Irish will have to play a strong game on offense, controlling their possessions on the attack. For an Irish team that has been struggling to do all sea­son, Harvard will stand to be a true test of how well Notre 
Dame's posses-'WE HAVE A CHANCE game," Glatzel sions.at midfield TO RUIN EVERY-said. "We're try­have Improved. ing to redefine 
"Harvard's got ONE'S SEASON NOW.' our roles, and a really good working on offensive control everything." team. Their SENIOR TODD RASSAS. With only two offense is the LACROSSE Co-CAPTAIN games left in the 
key to their 
team," said junior Chris Dusseau, whose 20 goals of the season are second­best on the team. 
The Crimson offense will be led by senior Mike Ferrucci on attack. 
"[He] is their best player, and can whip off some strong shots," Rassas, an All-American defenseman, said. "They have a strong offense, and the game will 
be our defense versus their offense." 
Seeing more playing time in recent games are a number of underclassmen, who have had positive effects on the Irish's goal production. 
Tom Glatzel, in only his second start for the Irish on attack in last weekend's 8-7 slighting by UMass, was able to spark the offense with two goals, his first collegiate goals. 
"We're taking 
things game by 
season, the Irish 
are looking to set a better precedence than ending this season on a losing streak. In preparation for next season, the team will continue to give under­classmen more playing time. 
"Some guys are going to get in the game this weekend. We need to set a tone for next season, and that is winning," Rassas said. 
But the focus will remain on the season at hand. With two wins, the Irish (4-5). can end the season not only on a winning streak. but also above .500. In addition, wins against No. 17 Harvard and No. 9 Hofstra next weekend at home will mean a great deal for this year's squad. 
"We're trying to play well for the seniors," Dusseau said. "But winning against [Harvard and Hofstra] really says something for us, knocking off two really good teams." 

•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in Tovm! 2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
U hi \11u1 • III!IH ri1' \1nn S;ll .-, 10 f-11 & S.tl 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
Used l=ks l:ot.>;Jht an:l sold 

• 
25 categories of B:Joks 

• 
25,000 Hardback ar~ Paperback 


l=ks in stock • Wt""f-Print S6'\rd1 Se:tviCE: $2.00 
• l'f:praisals laxge an:l srall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232,8444 

-
ARZM(PG)1:11i,31!i,5.11i, 7:41,10:00 
'No passes 

.or • 

~ P( 'HT',The Observer • SPORTS 
page 18 
• CLUB SPORTS 
Gymnastics team captures National title 
By SAMUEL BIRDSONG 
Sports Writer 
On April 4, the Notre Dame Club Gymnastics team compet­ed in the National Association of Intercollegiate Gymnastics Clubs' National Championship held at the University of Buffalo. 
The Notre Dame men's team walked away from the meet with a national championship. 
Notre Dame competed against 15 other schools, of which the toughest competitors were tlw University of Texas, Purdue, Miami of Ohio, University of Minnesota and Miami Dade Community College. The competition last­ed from 7:30a.m. to midnight. 
There were two preliminar­
ies consisting of six events: 
floor. pommels, high bar, 
rings, vault and parallel bars. 
The top 10 gymnasts with the 
highest averaged scores of all 
six events proceeded to the 
W. Tennis 
continued from page 24 
We hopn to continue to play as well as we have been." 
Thn onn-two combination of junior Jen Jlall and rn~shman Mielwllt~ Dasso have led the toam all yc1ar. IIall is currently ranknd 22nd in tho c:ountry. whiln Dasso is 16th. llall has becm playing No.1 singles since thP middle of hH frPshman year and that experience will be crucial in the pressured atmosphere~ of the tournanwnt. She has playPd big matehes all thrnn years in college and as a nationally-ranked junior and 
has proven to thrivn in those situations. 
Meanwhile, Dasso does not have the experience that llall does. But regardless, she has played well all year. showing that she can play with the best playnrs in the nation. Dasso brings a 37-(> record into the tournament, as well as a 22-2 dual match record. 
Depth in singles is a main reason why the team has been successful, as well. No. 3 sin­gles player Marisa Velasco and No. 4 singles player Tiffany Gates make up the middle of the lineup. while Kelly Zalinski and Kim Guy play fifth and sixth singles. All four have had solid seasons and will have a major impact on the outcome of their team this weekend. 
The Irish's biggest challenge this weekend will most likely come from second-seeded 
finals. 
Three Irish gymnasts placed in the individual all-arounds out of a total of 50 male gym­nasts: senior Bryce Emo plac­ing fourth, freshman Mickey McGarry placing sixth and freshman Jason Miller placing 
eighth. 
Another key contributor to the victory was junior Tim FitzSimons with his outstand­
ing performance in the prelim­inaries. 
"Everyone nailed their last three events, "senior Tom Purekal. gymnastics club co­president, said. "Mickey had his best meet of the season; he nailed all of his events. Jason Miller threw tricks he hasn't thrown all year." 
The entire team's effort 
helped the Irish to clench first 
place by a hard fought margin 
of less than two points. 
The women's gymnastics 
team also gave a noteworthy 
showing. even though three of 
Miami. The 20th ranked Hurricanes will be playing in nearby Key Biscayne at the site of the Lipton pro tournament, which will give them a home court advantage. In last year's final, Notre Dame beat Miami 4-0 to capture the title. Miami has combined a mixture of youth and experience to finish the year with an 11-5 record. Freshman Lioudmila Skavronskaia plays first singles for the Hurricanes. A native of Moscow, Russia, she recently took over the number one posi­tion from senior Elisabeth Ilabelnr. Ilabeler is an experi­enced player who won the Austrian National 
Championships in 1996 and 
1997. Senior captain Victoria 
llunt and freshman Katia 
Bogomolova have enjoyed 
impressive seasons as well, at 
third and fourth singles. 
Other contenders for tho title 
include Seton Hall, Boston 
College and Syracuse. The Irish 
beat BC and Syracuse earlier in 
the season, by 9-0 and 8-1 
margins respectively. The Irish 
begin play Friday when they 
play the winner of Thursday's 
match between St. John's and 
Georgetown. 
"This year the tournament 
could be a war," Louderback 
said. "Miami is very solid as is 
Boston College and Seton Hall. 
Miami has brought in some tal­
ented newcomers to join an 
already good team from last 
year, so they will definitely be 
improved. We'll have to play 
very well in order to defend our 
title." 

the top female gymnasts could not make the meet. 
Freshman Ryann Cox placed eighth in the individual all­arounds, and senior Molly Russell, the other co-president of the gymnastics club, placed sixteenth in the indy all­arounds out of a field of 75 female competitors. 
"The championship was the close of a very successful sea­son for our team," Russell said. "We came in second at every midwest meet and first at our home meet (the Clover Classic)." 
But the road to the women's 
successful season and the 
men's national championship 
was not easy. 
First, over the course of the 
season, several of the top gym­
nasts -Cox, Miller and Jill 
Kula -suffered injuries. 
Second, the University failed to provide practice space for the gymnastics team; the team had to arrange for their own trans­portation 15 minutes off-cam­pus to Gymnastics Michiana. 
Despite some setbacks, the Notre Dame Gymnastics Club managed to bring home the only National Championship trophy of the year for Notre Dame. The trophy rests in the sports office in Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center. 
With a few final thoughts on the season, Miller said, "The aura of the gym will not be the same without Bryce, but I look forward to a new class with lots of talent and we're deter­mined to defend our National Championship." 
In the words of co-president 
Purekal, "We had an awesome 
season this year." 
~~-~------­
Friday, April 24, 1998 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's nunning Club ­Come join us at 4:30 p.m. each day in front of the Sorin statue and benefit from a good workout and running com­panions. All female runners are welcome. Call 'Rene at x2849 or Ashley at x1211 with questions. We are currently looking for a faculty advisor. 
ND Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -meets every Sunday at the Rockne Memorial. 10 a.m., to noon in room 219. Please call Teo at 4-3013 or email cteodoro@nd.edu. 
Drop-In VolJeyhall -RecSports wUI be sponsoring it every Wednesday and Friday from 8-11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
Drop-In Badminton -
RecSports will be sponsoring 
every Friday from 7-10 p.m. 
in the Rolfs Sports Recreation 
Center for the rest of the 
semester. 



Gradna · gSeniors 
Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, FREE Mouse Pad, blah, ' blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, Notre Dame Federal Credit Union, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, 
blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah .. 


~NOTRE DAME
VIII FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. www.ndfcu.org 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-(J61l 
lndcpcndant of the University 

TITANIC (PG-13) DTS 12:00 4:00 8:15 SCREAM 2 (A) 1:45 4:30 7:30 10:05 OBJECTOF MY AFF.(PG-13) 1 :30 4:20 7:00 9:40 
t..arrNSPACE(PG-13) DlS 1:15 4:15 7:10 10:00 CITY OF ANGELS (PG-13) 11 :45 2:15 4:40 7:20 9:50 ODDCOlR.E(PG-13} 
12:15 2:30 4:45 7:15 9:30 
-
SaVSun Mat. in [brackets] THE BIG HIT (A) [2:00] 4:30 7:30 9:40 
PAULl E (PG) [ 1 2: 30] 
[2:45] 5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) [1 :00]4:00 7:00 9:50 
~---------~---~·~­
~' Msoc. 
0
..._ff-~~­

-G 
< ® ::l I. Student i\lumni REI ATIONS GRou• 
NOTRE DAME

' 



Saturday, April 25th 
Come to the 

ALL-CLASS PICNIC 
You will have a chance to network with Alumni Representatives fro111 across the country. 
No 1natter what you're doing i11 the future-grad school, volunteer or r11ilitary service, full-titne employtne11t, or su1n1ner inter11sl1ip -Fi11d out l1ovv you ca11 get involved in the Alut1u1i Club of your destination city/state/area. 
Look for sig11s ofyour state ofresidence at tlze 
Joyce Center Fieldhot1se 11:30am -1:30pm 
Enter through Gate 3 
...

Entertainment by Door prizes Dunn Brothers every 15 minutes 
Sponsored by: No charge for non-meal 
' l 
Alumni Association card holders. Just bring SARG, Student Union Board, & your student ID. University Food Services 
page 20 
• TRACK AND fiELD 

Final opportunity for tune-up 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sporrs Writer 
This weekend poses the final opportunity for mem­
I~ bers of the track and field team to perfect their per­formances before the Big East meet, perfecting every­thing from quick starts out of the blocks to consistent pacing to strong kicks down the home stretch. Nine members of the 
Fighting Irish go head-to­head with world-class ath­letes in the prestigious Drake Relays today and tomorrow in Des Moines, Iowa. while the remainder of the team will head to the Purdue Helays in Lafayette, Ind., tomorrow. 
At Drake, Notre Dame is putting on the line a talent­ed c.rew of athletes who are mostly underclassmen. Sophomore Jennifer Engelhardt is aiming to quality for the NCAA cham­pionships in tho high jump, as are sophomore JoAnna Deeter in the 3,000 meters and stmior Rerit Junker in the 400 meter hurdles; sophomores Alison Klemmer and Nicole LaSell~~ are running the 5,000 meters; seniors Errol Williams and Kevin Heher are running the 110 meter high hurdles, and the 4 x 100 meter r('lay team ineludes Williams, Reher, and sophomores Marshaun 
West and Chris Cochran. 
"For Nicole, we need to get a really good time in before the Big East. Jnnnifer Engtllhardt, Wtl'd like to see have a shot at qualifying for the NCAAs, and the same for Berit .Junker and .JoAnna Deeter," said head coach Joe Piane. "We'd like the 4 x 100 to make it to the finals. and we'd like to see Errol have a shot at win­ning it." 
"I guess my goal is just to go out there and rise up to l he tH: casion . " said Engelhardt, who is 1/4 inch away from provisionally qualifying for the NCAAs. "There are going to be a lot of elite athletes there. You have to work yourself up to that level mentally. I hope the competition will push me over the edge to that NCAA-qualifying jump." 
"The times have already come down." said Williams, an indoor all-American who already qualified for the NCAA championships in June. "I just want to get used to running with this level of competition." 
The Drake Helays, like last weekend's Mt. Sac Hclays, are one of the pre­mier track events in the United States. Professional, collegiate and high school runners all compete in the meet. mostly in separate divisions, but some profes­sionals and collegians com­pete against one another. This year, runners like U.S. 
1.500 meter champion Paul McMullen and distance run­ner and world-record hold­er Mary Slaney are among the elite athletes participat­ing. In previous years, Olympic gold medalists Carl Lewis and Michael Johnson have been among those putting on a show for the crowd with their speed. 
Last year. Piane was named to the Drake Helays Hall of Fame after coaching Notre Dame teams which have competed there over the past two decades. 
The Irish. who are head­ing to Purdue inelude Big East champion pole vaulter Mike Brown, shot put and discus thrower Matt Thompson, I ,500 meter runner Erin Luby and 800 meter runner Patti Hice. A number of other athletes will attempt to fine-tune their performances in a final meet before heading to Villanova, Pennsylvania next weekend for the Big East championship. 
"This weekend is going to determine who goes to the Big East and who doesn't," said field events coach Scott Windsor. 

Notre Dame Cummunicalrun and Theatre p 1 e s e nl s 
As

Wtlliam Shakespeare·s 


LiKe 


</: It 
Orrecled uy Roginald Bain 
Wednesday. April 22 -7 30 p.rrr Thursday April 23 -7.30 p m fr~day April 24-7 30 p rn Saturday. April 25-7:30 p '" Sunday. Ap11l 26-1 30 p rn 
Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seal> -1~ Senror Cilrzens -H Studenls -S6 
fila..,., """~lc Jl ~~, 
Laro~llat St•d•ot'-'r·ler hciel lmr~..u 
la:narCar• anll YISA ltitrl tJ~I bJI tl..'d 

The Observer· SPORTS Friday, April 24, 1998 
M. Tennis 
continued from page 24 
finals," Bayliss said with cer­tainty. 
If the prediction is accurate and assuming Miami defeats Providence, this will be the third straight year the Hurricanes and Irish continue the rivalry. 
"It'll be intense," sophomore Hyan Sachire said. "We've played them the last couple of years, and there is a rivalry." 
There's only two really good teams in the Big East, and that's Notre Dame and Miami. Both of us expect to get the finals." 
The Hurricanes, ranked 52nd. will be protecting their title from last year's champi­onship, where they defeated Notre Dame, 4-1. 
Although the Irish defeated Miami in an indoor game in February, 4-2, the Hurricanes are capable of blowing players to pieces outdoors. 




"The fact that we beat them inside doesn't mean all that much," Bayliss said. "Miami is a totally different team outside." 
On the hot. outdoor courts in Florida, Miami may have enough heat to blast the Irish. 
Hurricane freshman Rudy Hake was even flaming indoors in February, when he beat standout Sachirc at the No. 1 spot, 7-5, 6-4. 
"I can't wait to play him again," said Sachire, the No. 20 player in the nation. "It'll be a great opportunity to get some revenge. I'll just need to be more patient. Last time, I forced the issue too much." 
Before the Irish can make a point against Miami, today they need to combat Georgetown, who defeated Boston College 4­0 yesterday . 
If the match goes according to plan, Notre Dame will face either West Virginia or Hutgers in the semi-finals. West Virginia, seeded fourth. poses the most serious threat between the two. 
The Mountaineers finished fifth in last year's tournament. They also boast a strong dou­bles team at No. 1 that could put a dent in the Irish. 
But if anyone threatens a serious bang-up job, it will take plaee in the finals on Sunday, just like the Irish have so confi­dently predicted. 
''I'd say them are only two really good teams in the Big East -that's Notre Dame and Miami," Sachirc said. "Both of us expect to get to the finals. Whoever wins is going to deserve it because both teams arc going to light to the end." 

Please Recycle The Observer 
Friday, April 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• BASEBALl 


Notre Dame secures another win with come-back 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
Arter falling behind 4-0 in the first third of last night's game against Toledo, the Notre Dame baseball team needed relid. 
Head coach Paul Mainieri looked no further than the bullpen where freshman Mike Carlin answered the call. 
Carlin pitched six and two-thirds shutout innings, dou­bling his total innings pitched for the season, to earn his first caroer win, a 15-4 Irish victo­ry. 

"[Carlin] gave us a real shot in the arm by that perfor­mance," Mainieri said. "We knew going in that we were pretty thin in the bullpen, especially when we got off to a rough start in the first inning, and Mike came in ... He got a 

The Development Phone Center gratefully {lcknowledges those ·who have supported its student caller incentive program. 
Barnaby's Family Inn 
Bibler's Original Pancake House 
Chili's Grill 
Dick's Sporting Goods 
Doc Pierce's Restaurant 
Fazoli 's 
Flowers by Stephen 
Frank's Delicatessen 
Great Wall Restaurant Hana Yori of Japan, Inc. Heavenly Ham 
Lacopo's Pizzeria 
LaEsperanza 
great opportunity tonight, and he took advantage of it." 
"As a relief pitcher I have to be ready to come in whenev­er," Carlin said. "Gutta come to the park everyday and be ready to come in at any time." 
Although starter Mike Naumann lasted only one-third of an inning, the offense responded in resounding fash­ion with 15 runs on 22 hits, led by Dan Leatherman's five-hit 
Lone Star Steakhouse & Saloon Patricia Ann Florist Pizza Hut Polito's Pizzeria Restaurant Quiznos Classic Subs Rocco's Restaurant Spageddies Steak & Ale Restaurant Subway· Sandwiches and Salads 
T.G.I. Fridays United Limo, Inc. University Park East Cinema Wendy's of South Bend 
performance. The senior first baseman's five-for-five effort ties the Notre Dame single­game record for most hits, and extends his hitting streak to eight games. 
"That's the way it's been all season for us, different guys have stepped up in different situations," said Leatherman. "It was my turn [yesterday]." 
The come-from-behind victo­ry was Notre Dame's 13th this year, and the team's seventh straight win when losing after the first inning. 
"I don't know how many games have been comeback wins, but it sure seems like a lot," Mainieri said with a chuckle. "I wish there was something we could do about getting off to a better start more often because these guys are certainly making their coach old before his time." 
Toledo scored all four runs in the top of the first, roughing up Naumann with five of its eight hits. 
But the Irish (33-10) clawed their way back with two runs in the third, and regained the lead with three fourth-inning tallies. 
Leatherman began the rally, lofting a double to right-cen­terfield, stealing third and scoring on Mike Knecht's sac­rifice bunt. Allen Greene fol­lowed with a single to left, and Todd Frye scored the tying run when the Rockets botched a run-down to put Greene on third. An error by the short­stop on a J .J. Brock grounder, plated Greene with the go­ahead run. 
Keeping the pressure on Toledo, the Irish exploded for 10 runs in the final four innings. 
Three consecutive doubles by Jeff Wagner, Brant Ust and Alec Porzel highlighted the three-run fifth. In the sixth, Ust and Porzel blasted back· to-back two-out homers, their team leading 13th and fifth, respectively. 
A four-run eighth closed out the scoring for Notre Dame, as Leatherman, Greene and Ben Cooke drove in runs. 
"Everybody takes their turn rising up for the team," Mainieri said. "There have been a number of nights when Alec Porzel has stepped up with a big hit, or Danny Leatherman or Todd Frye. Not only the stars, so to speak, make a team." 
Having won 23 of its last 24 games, Notre Dame takes one day to rest before heading east to face Big East rival Seton Hall in a three-game series at Owen T. Carroll Field tomor­row and Sunday. 

Have something to say? 
,..


Use Observer classifieds. 
• •  $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ Do you V\eed ex+~a cash fo~ this SV\mme~? The ;AiumJ!1i AssociatioJ-'1 is hiJtAiJ-'19 people who would like to .woJtAk fJtAom 3tAV\e 31 1998 th~(A 3tAV\e 61 1998 .or reV\V\IOV\ '98f You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! Please apply at student employment 336 Grace Hall or The Alumni Association 202 Brownson Hall $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$  • •  

page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, April 24, 1998 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXVII 


And then there were eight 
SFR3 squeaks by So Solid 
By JOE CAVA TO Frigo and Wills battled in the went to their big A<soci.nr Sporrs Ediror paint all night long as both play­man Teasdale who ers contributed ten points for was a force to be 
Last night's SwePt Sixteen the team's effort. reckoned with. action certainly did not disap­"Nick started to score some "They played point tlw hordes of fans that near the end," McCann said. real well," Gese went out to support their "But at the end of the game our said. "They didn't favoritn tPam as all the games strategy was to get the ball to really have any­wPnt down to the wire. Frigo and hope he'd score or get body that could 
SFB3 and So Solid fought till fouled and luckily he made the match up with him aftnr midnight until Dan Frigo free throw when I turned so we knew we'd finally PtHIPd the battle with a around and didn't watch." get the foul or a free throw for the 27-25 win. "I was excited he didn't score lay-up." 
"It was a hard fought game 20 on me," Frigo said about his On the other half and good basketball," Aiden match-up with Wills. "lie's a of the bracket third McCann of SFB3 said. "We were good player and that's why he seeded Malicious lucky to eome out on top, we was on the basketball team." Prosecution and missed a lot of free throws and When asked about his two-for­No. 11 seed In did not take advantage of our eight performance at the charity Memory of McConn opportunities near the end." stripe Frigo told it like it was. advaneed into the 
The two squads battled back "It sucked I'm just glad I made Elite Eight. and forth but SFH3 manag~•d to the last one," he said. Behind strong sneak out in front 11-8 at the Their opponent in tlw next post play from half. But bt~hind Nick Wills and round will be seconded seeded Jeremy Cole and 
A..J. Schiavone, So Solid st:on~d Mickny's who held off a late Mark Klaassen, the first four points of the sec­Show Me the Money stuge to Malicious ond half. advance with a 21-17 win. Prosecution got out 
The tPams battled like a pair Behind the sharp shotiting of an 11-5 lead at the of heavyweight lighters trading Alex Gese and the defense and break over punches. So Solid took the lead rebounding of John Teasdale, Soldiers. on S()Veral occasions. but SFR3 Mickey's jumped out to a 11-5 Deke Cooper lead managed to rome up with a big lead at the half. a Soldiers' come­play. Show Me the Money chipped back as they bat­
"They got live guys that can away at the lead and got as tled from a .20-17 Aiden McCann (white shirt) of SFR3 drives the lane against So Solid in last night's ball pretty good," Frigo said. close as 18-15, but Mickey's was deficit to 20-19, Sweet Sixteen action. SFR3 came out on top of a marathon game, 27-25. "You could tell that they just simply too tough as Gese won but they could not 
heads at how good the contest In Memory of McConn man­wanted to win." the game with a free throw. tie it up, although several was. aged to come back behind TimSomehow SFH3's Chris Dotson "They were just hitting all Malicious Prosecution missed The contest was tight through­Monahan who was a terror allgot a no-look, over the head lay­their shots, it seemed like," Gese free throws. 
out as the neither team could night long. 
up to fall that tied the game at said about Show Me the Money's Malicious Prosecution finally make a move and half-time Monahan gave his team a lead22. SFH3 did not look back from comeback. "We were in their got a shot to fall as they came ended with an 11-10 lead for In and B.J. Kloska drilled a longthere as they took the lead and shorts but they were hitting away with a 21-19 victory. 
Memory of McConn. range jumper for the 23-21 win.
Frigo connected on his second of tough shots and we just wanted In yet another Bookstore game Matt Vankoski did most of the Bookstore will only continue toeight free throws to put his team to concentrate on 'd.' We never In Memory of McConn upset six­scoring for Bolivian Yaks as his get better as those left will takeinto the Elite Eight and a contest too worried though." seeded Bolivin Yaks and left team enjoyed a 20-19 lead after to the courts tonight to decidewith Mickey's. Down the stretch Mickey's fans walking away shaking their things were knotted at 18. the final four. 
Fans crowd Stepan to see Primetime advance 
By BRIAN KESSLER game high eight points. but it 
A.sisranr Sporrs Ediror was Perkins who was the 
hero. 

Amidst a sPa of fans. at times piled live­Perkins drained a l'ree 
dnnp around a single ganw, the Stt~pan throw to give Off Shore a 22­
t:ourts, host to tlw 27th annual Bookstorl' 21 lead and followed it up 
Basketball tournament. allowPd only the with a game-winning free 
most PlitP night tPams to advance to throw two possessions later. 
today's quartPrlinals. "I didn't hear anything; I 
Onrt~ again. No. 1 l'rinwtime ran the just blocked it all out," said 
court Wl'll and rontinund to look dominant, Perkins. whose key free 
as tlwy knorkl'd ofT Absolut Irish. 21-15. throws wnrn his nnly two 
"It was a wry physical game," said Kyle points of the game." 
lluglws of Prinwtinw. "Tiw rds let us play "We hit some critical shots 
out tlwn~ and we like to play aggressivt~ at critical times." said Hidder. 
styln baskPtball." "Hosenthal and I complement 
Steve Craig had liVf~ first-half points and each other and we were able 
pulled down a couple offensive boards to work the inside-outside 
dnspitl) an injurPd ankle. game." 
"SttWI) did a gn~at job on the boards for OfT Shore will take on No. 
us," lluglws said. "llis ankle isn't too bad 13 Your Mom, who upset 
and it n~ally isn't affecting his game." Bobby Brown, Bobbie 
PrirnPtinw took an 11-6 lead into the sec­Howard, .labari Holloway and 
ond half and put the game away with some the rest of fourth seeded Still 
clutch fret' throw shooting down the Muddy, 21-18. 
Jay Johnson (left) and his team Soldiers fell to No. 3 Malicious Rrosecution yesterday. Malicious
stretch. llughes knocked down two huge "We got otT to a good start 
will take on No. 11 In Memory of McConn who upset Bolivian Yaks later today. 
shots from tlw charity stripe and Craig and jumped out to an 11-6 
added anotlwr to dose the game. llughes lead at half." said Paul 
and Craig both linshed with eight points Moore. "Both teams got into foul trouble, 
apiece. but we hit and they didn't. 
Prinwtirne will face Erie Chappell and But it was Tom Deitrich who was the 
No. 9 No Limit, who knocked out Derrick real difference for Your Mom. Deitrich 
Manner's squad. Wax, 23-21. Manner's played solid defense on Bobby Brown and 
loss. couplml with the elimination of Nick added 10 points. Cas Schneller also came 
Wills' tl~am So Solid, leavl's tlw remaining up big for the Alumni sophomores. 
finld without any varsity basketball play­"We like being the underdog and we're 
ers. used to getting no respect," said Moore. 
"Thny INn Limit! arn a very physical Moore's team will try to earn some tPam." said llughes. "We're excited to play respect when they face Off Shore tomor­tlwm, but at the same time WI) rnalize it's row. 
going to lw a very physical game." "No one matches up well against Off 
Off Shorn Drilling playPd their way into Shore," said Moore. "We're just going to 
tlw round of Pight with a 24-22 win over try to push the ball up the court and stick 
the twnlvn sned. Burn N' Shoot. Latn in the to our game plan." 
garnt~. Snan Pnrkins got the ball in the The action continues this aftnrnoon at 4 
hands of the twin towers, Mike Hosenthal p.m. on the Bookstorn courts, as the 
and Tim Hiddl'r. Hiddm· linislwd with a remaining eight teams will look to play 




------------------------------------------~------------------------~ 
Friday, April 24, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

like it might happen in a dream. 
At any rate. this could spur you to 
furious activity. There's a sense of 
urgency, but that's OK. It helps 
you think faster. Push yourself 
togreater heights. 
Cancer (June 22-July 22) Conditions are unsettled. You might be moving from one loca­tion to another. You have plenty of friends who'd like to help, so let them. Meanwhile, protect yourself emotionally. Tempers will be short. Don't add to the confusion by getting into a snit. 
Leo (July 23-Aug. 22) Brainstorm a new idea with your partner this morning. Together, 
DILBERT 
you can come up with something neither of you would have thought
rr==============~•ur------------------­
of on your own. This happens reg­
AT THE CONFE.RE.t-.!CE 
'<OU HAVE TO BE FUNNY EVERY DAY. THEN 

I LIKED YOUR TAL~ 
THE.RE ARE THE. BOOK51

ABOUT YOUR COI"'\IC STRIP. 
THE MEDII\, TI-\E DO YOU EVER FEEL 

SPEAK.lNG. SO MUCH 

BURNED 
STRESS ... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 State of 53 Tonto's Scout, emergency for one
1 "Backdraft" gear 33 Attacker 54 Schedule 
6 Approximates 34 Cold war 
57 Geometer's concern15 Wind: Prefix headquarters 58 Like brewers' 16 Credit card cost 35 Fetter hops11 G. I.'s bills 39 Cartoon brawl 59 Escape the 18 Prospectors' exclamation understandinghelpers 

40 Locker room 
of 19 Formal footwear discussion 60 University Park 

20 Place for a hole, 41 Pari---(at an campusoften 
equal rate) 
61 Counted tree 

21 Square dance 44 Tender looks rings, e.g. 
partners 
45 Catchall abbr. 
22 When repeated, 
46 Smelter input 
a 1968 pop hit DOWN 23 Certain trousers 
47 Scottish clan 
1#

leader
25 Knot 2 Head-to-toe 26 Acting Gardner 49 Skiing mecca look 27 Have ----see 50 Kind of fall 3 Outdoor air 29 Pollster's 52 CPR 4 70's radical finding administrator ---Harris 5 Saturates 6 Song from the ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 'hood 7 Getting crocked &Pop 9 Microwaved 10 Stop up 

,..,..t-:.-Pt=-:r-''1-'-t=F...,...~~~~~ 11 Turnstile 
cheater 12 Recently 131973 hit"-­
Stronger Every Day" 

--·~W~~:!QMtRJ.itd!$114 owned (up)
~ 23 Succotash 
ingredient ~~=+~!...fill.,..,. 24 Stepping spots ~RHFf-'--1-'-'-r-:-1 27 To the max 
lllilt:=+':'+:=+~:=:+::-1 2870's singer Garrett 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries (March 21-April 19) This could be a day of surprises. Not to 
worry. Some of it's going to be fun, if you can keep your temper. 
'vJ£ L L I HILLAR~ 
R14HI·' 

There's no reason to get upset, actually. You're way ahead of the
IHER£ ARE fEil. 

opposition. You're smarter, more experienced and better looking. You'll win any competition easily. 
Taurus (April 20-May 20) Get those checks and letters in the mail. Might as well send off for that new outfit you've been wanti­ng. too. You should throw some­thing that's a little bit of a reward into the mix. Otherwise. the whole day could be complete drudgery. 
Gemini (May 21-June 21) You could have a magnificent insight early this morning. In fact, it looks 
MIKE PETERS 
recital by graduate student Simone .··Ulranovtlk\1' take place this evening at 7:30 p.m. in ary A:!Jditoriuro. Works by Zoltan . van Beethoven, Joseph Haydn and ••.a;.uu•vt de Falla. Marcelo Amaral and ND grad student Beeker will accompany on piano. The recital is to the public. Please call 1-6201 for more 
30 Bring in 32 Israeli writer 
--Oz 
33 Public regard 35 English garden feature 36 Looking freshly 
groomed 37 Leeway 38 Fenced-in 40 Series of 
troubles 41 Soda can feature 
c 

ularly between you, and that's one reason you put up with each other. 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) If you can solve a problem at work. you could get a bonus or, if you're self­employed, make more money. Somehow technology and money are linked in a favorable way. It won't be easy, however. You may have to hire an expert. It's money well spent. 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct. 23) You're 
42 Reach 51 Volunteer's 43 Galleon crew home: Abbr. 44 Africa's smallest 53 Made, as a case country48 Compassion 55 Scores at R.F.K. 49 Cy Young 56 City near winner, 1988 Arnhem 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
good at many things, but keeping track of your spending can be a real hassle sometimes. You'd rather buy whatever you want and let the chips fall where they may. That's not a good idea. especially right now. Pay off old bills first. 
Scorpio (Oct. 24-Nov. 21) You're good at wheeling and dealing. The hard part is the payback. You need to do something for another person to get him or her t'o do what you want. Well, the sooner you get it over with, the sooner you 'II be on to something else. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21) Someone you care about is in a bind. You may be ahle to help. Something you've been studying recently applies in just this situa­tion. You may surprise the other person and even yourself with how much you know. You're smarter than you think you are. 
Capricorn (l)ec. 22-Jan. 19) Travel may put a dent in your financial reserves. This looks like travel associated with work, in which case you could deduct it or be reimbursed for it. Have you thought about studying a foreign language? This would be a good day to start. It'll improve your relationship with a foreign friend. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18) Keep paper and pencil next to your bed. You could come up with an absolutely brilliant idea during the night. It's the solution to a problem you've been struggling with for some time. If you didn't write it down already. take a moment now to see if you can remember what it was. 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) If you're short on cash, don't worry. You can learn how to make more, or stretch your resources. Necessity is the mother of inven­tion. remember? All you have to do is learn, and you do know how to do that. Contact someone who knows what you need to find out, and make a date. 
by· , Campra, , Tosti, and ND fac· Graduate stUdent Sliere£3 on piano; junior Carol The recital is free and call 1-62.01 for more infor­
.. 

Vanilla (Ice Cream) Social 4:00-6:00PM South Quad 
[Rain Location: LaSun Ballroom] 
O'Neill Double Dare 4:00-G:OOPM South Quad 
Dodge Ball Tournament 4:00-S:OOPM South Quad 
As Good As It Gets 8:00PM Cushing Auditorium 
$2 
·­
• 




-


SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friaday, April 24, 1998 




ast chance for gfor~ 
·~·US BEING OUR SENIOR YEAR, l!.}wE HAVE TO STEP UP INTO MORE OF A LEADERSHIP ROLE ...' 
I; 
SENIOR LINEBACKER Kom· MINon L 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Autry Denson hopes to lead the Irish back from a disappointing 7-6 record last season. 
Top class hopes to finish career on high note 
By JOE CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
On Feb.!. 1995, Lou lloltz inked one of his most heralded crop of bhw chippers in his 11­year career under the Dome. 
"I never stood up here and had a more impres­sive list coming in," Holtz said on signing day. "I just hope they're as good as thoir reputations and we can coach them as well as we recruited them." 
Three years, a new coach and no top-H) fin­ishes later. the Class of 1999 heads into their final Blue-Gold game in prepa-· ration for one last chance to bring their team back to Notre Dame's stan­dards. 
"We're approaching it like it's any other spring," tailback Autry Denson said. "I guess because it's spring, it hasn't really hit us that this is our last one. 

We're focused. I think if anything, we're going to try to enjoy it, knowing it's our last one." 
"This being our senior year, we have to step up into more of a leadership role that we take on besides playing the game of football," linebacker Kory Minor said. "That is the biggest change from going in this year to last year." 
Although the Class of 1999 has not yet delivered the . National Championship that recruiting magazines indi­cated they would. they have made an impact since they first stepped foot on campus. Minor, 
' 

the USA Today defensive player of the year in high school. has proven that he was worthy of that title time and time again. The California native stepped into a starting role at the outside linebacker posi­
see FOOTBALL I page 14 
• TENNIS 
.. 
Notre Dame heads South to fulfill expectations 
Men look to reclaim the Big 
Top seeded Irish women East title from Hurricanes head confidently to Big East 
By M. SHANNON RYAN By TIM CASEY Saint Mary's Ediwr Sports Writer 
One problem with coaching a solid 16-6 team ranked Even though Notre Dame only joined the Big East within the top 15 is trying to sound modest. conference two years ago, the women's tennis toam 
As top-seeded Notre Dame rides into the Friday has proven that they are the team to boat. through Sunday Big East championship, men's trmnis The 18th-ranked Irish have won tho last two cham­coach Bob Bayliss is conlident about where the Irish pionships and are favored for a third, evidencnd bysquad will wind up. their number one seed in this weekend's Big East 
"I horwstly expect that we will go to the finals," championships. They finished the regular season with 
Bayliss said. "I'm not trying to sound arrogant, but a 16-8 record and have improved as the season has based on tlw scores and tho woaker confenmce, I don't progressed. They finished the year by winning four of
-
think wn'll bn tested until the finals." their last live matches, including .their biggest win of 
And Bayliss is just as sure who the Irish will come the season over 10th ranked Wake Forest. 
lwad-to-hnad against on Sunday as they attempt to Coach Jay Louderback has boen elated with his rndaim thnir IIJ!J6 title as champions. team's performance as of late. "Our team is definitnly"Miami will be the team we're going to face in the The Observer/Jeff Hsu, Kevin Dalum playing their best tennis of the season which is groat. 
Ryan Sachire and Tiffany Gates have contributed to the Irish's momentum as Notre Dame heads to the championships. 
seeM. TENNIS I page 20 see W. TENNIS I page 18 

"t"' at Seton Hall (OH), Big East Championships at ~: Tomorrow, 12 p.m. 
Miami,
,;.~ a) •Bookstore field narrows to eight
Today-Sundayvs. Villanova, 
'C
'!w 
see page 22 Tomorrow, 12 p.m. 

Big East Championships at 


te ••
Miami,at Harvard, 
•Baseball tops Toledo in comeback 

Today-Sunday ~
~ Tomorrow, I p.m. see page 21 
ar Columbia, Blue and Gold Game, 

v;9 

Today, 3 p.m. Tomorrow, 1:30 p.m. 
~ 








