By MAGGY TINUCCI 
News Wrircr 
Award-winning author Alex Kotlowitz will kick ofT tlw Andrnws and McMeel Sncond Annual Confnrnnce on Summer Snrvi<:n l.cmrning: Focus on Youth in a talk tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington IIall. 
Tlw c:onfert~ncP will attmnpt to nncour­agP institutions to usn tlw summer months to promotn lnarning outside the rlassroom through tlw nxample of Notre llanw's Sumnwr Service Projects (SSPs). 

Harbor and St. Joseph, Mich., and how those differenees affeet the area's youth. 
In keeping with the eontext of this year's theme, l<otlowitz's work repre­sents the extreme need for service in areas like Benton Harbor. The lecture, "Breaking the Silence: Growing Up in Today's Inner City," foeuses on the hard­ships faced by today's youth. 
The conference promotes anything that encourages service and establishes it though academic credit, as SSP stu­dents receive three credits for their ser­vice endeavors, said Cunningham. 

I LEAVING LAW SCHOOL 
1 
j WITH MORE THAN AMBITION 
The Observer/Liz Lang 
The "golden handcuffs" of well-paying corporate legal careers can easily trap debt-
riddled law school graduates, enticing them to abandon hopes for a service-minded 
career. 
Debt-saddled law graduates forced to compromise hopes 
"llopefully Kotlowitz will get people enthused and excited about the confer­ence," said Sue Cunningham, director of summer serviee projects and alumni relations at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Kotlowitz, author of "There Arc No Children llere" and "The Other Side of the Hiver" was asked to present the kick­ofT spnech for tho conferenco because of his work in underprivileged areas. The subject of his second study is the tremendous differences between the noighboring communities of Benton 
fRIDAY FEATURE 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Sainr Mary's Editor 
Many future lawyers dream of flashing cash for three-piece Armani suits and cherry-red BMWs, but Notre Dame law student Chad Trulli realizes he'll have to settle for cheap suits and a used car while he attempts to repay $125,000 in stu­dent loans. 
Trulli might be the one with a rusty car, but he understands lawyer's big bucks do not always equal quick cash. Before the $50,000 salaries begin to kick in, law students -just like other grads-have bills to pay. 
"I used to think that graduating 

The conference came about as a result of SSP benefactors who thought the pro­gram should have national recognition, Cunningham explained. 
"It gives us the chance to get together with other universities and talk," she said. 
Among the partieipating universities are Georgetown, Loyola-Marymount, Jefferson College, Montana Tech and Kalamazoo. 
Kotlowitz's talk will be videotaped and will be availabln in the Center for Soeial Concerns. 
Architects earn honors from peers 
By FINN PRESSLY 
News Writer 
Two Notre Dame architects rncently received the highest honor that can be conferred by the Indiana chapter of the American Institute of Architects. 
Duncan Stroik. associate professor of architecture, roeoivod tho 1998 Biennial Award for his work on Villa Indiana, his South Bend homo. llis design incorporated c:lassical design elements into a suburban St)tting. 
The recognition is signilit:ant because using elassieal examplns as modnls for modern buildings has oftnn bonn criti­cized by members of tlw architecture community, aeeording to C. William Westfall, chair of tho school of archi­tecture. 
"It's a very important award ospo­eially for this particular project beeause it literally represents a rneog­nition, by a profession that is normally antagonistie to the traditional and clas­sical arehitecture that we do here. of the high quality of the design," Westfall explained. "Even though most people who practice architecture would not do that kind of design themselves, they nonetheless recognize the high quality of this design." 
Stroik's arrangement is uniqun in that it takes its cues from building pro­jeets that arc hundreds of years old. 
"It takes quite literally thn idna that older buildings can act as precedent and be used for buildings today," said Westfall. "It's a wooden building in Indiana, and it's based on a stone building, or a style of building, in Italy from 400 years ago. The point is that most architects tend to value some­thing never seen before, original and absolutely creative." 
The award is also significant bocause it acknowledges that f'aculty members are also active members of the archi­tecture profession. 
"It reeognizcs that a person who is a senior member of an architecture fae­ulty is nonetheless practicing architec­ture -building buildings -which pro­fessional architects who are not involved in teaching admire," Westfall said. "What that means is that here's a 
see BUILDERS I page 6 
from law school would be like win­ning the lottery," Trulli said. "Now I think with these loan payments any lottery or big purchase I'm going to make is going to have to wait a few years." 
Trulli's financial debt is not an exception. 
Like 87 percent of Notre Dame law students, Trulli relied on outside financial assistance to help pay his $21,500 tuition, which has an annual increase of five to six percent. 
During the 1997-98 academic year, Notre Dame's approximately 570 law students received a total of $11.3 mil-
see CASH I page 4 
Friday 
NOVEMBER 6, 1998 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
In-Your-Hall Sports 
Ever get really bored? I mean, really, really bored. So bored and craving sports that you'll sit 
down and watch reruns of the Xtreme Games 
on ESPN2 for hours on 
end? Well, I have the Ted Fox 
cure for you: In-Your-Sports Columnist 
Hall sports, IYH for 
short. 
Now, I'm not talking about interhall sports. 
Don't get me wrong, I can't wait for the inter­
hall basketball season to start. But to pass 
the time, you need something a little differ­
ent. Something you can play in very little 
space with very little equipment. 
Enter IYH. 
IYH sports take normal sports, those that 
you would find out in what I like to call the 
"real world," and puts a unique twist on 
them. 
Take homerun derby, for instance. I know 
you baseball purists will take issue with this 
and say homerun derby isn't a sport, but it's 
close enough. 
Take a packing tube used to send things 
like posters. This is your bat, or "hammer," if 
you will. Louisville Slugger doesn't make 'em 
any better. Next, get a Nerfball. Preferably 
the classic orange one, but any color will do. 
You now have all the necessary equipment 
converted to its indoor form. 
Now comes the tricky part: determining 
what is or is not a homerun. You can get cre­
ative here. The tops of bunk beds are espe­
cially good because the front acts like the 
Green Monster out in left at Fenway, so you 
really have to get a hold of Mr. Nerf with 
your packing tube. 
This would be the makings of a great pas­
time if you stopped right here. 
However, the game becomes even more fun 
when you wait until about 1:30 in the morn­
ing while everyone else tries to sleep. For 
some reason, they get a little agitated when 
you yell "Good-bye Mr. Rawlings! ... uh ... I 
mean, Nerf." 
And this is just the beginning of the IYH 
madness. 
There's also the classic "Putting for 
Dollars," a sort of miniature golf meets Bozo 
the Clown show that you can play in the hall­
way. 
This time. a real golf putter and golf ball 
are used (I prefer those made for longer dri­
ving distance). A player stands at one end of 
the hall and aims at a target at the other end. 
The player who gets the ball into the target in 
the least amount of putts is the winner. 
We're lucky in Morrissey because there are 
little silver square holes under the doors that 
are great to try to putt into. We also have 
linoleum under the drinking fountains which 
kind of look like sand traps, adding a degree 
of difficulty. 
Again, if you wait til the early hours of the 
morning and yell at the ball as it rolls past 
the hole or complain loudly about how fast 
the carpet is, you're sure to make a lot of 
new friends. 
And these are just two ideas. The fun thing 
about this stuff is that there is no limit to 
what you can do. If you can think of it, IYH 
will let you play. 
So get out there and add to the madness of 
In-Your-Hall Sports. You won't be disappoint­
ed, and, chances are, you'll have more fun 
than by watching reruns of the X-Games. 
Especially if you play after one in the morn­
ing. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAff  
Scene  
News  Sarah Dylag  
Derek Betcher  Kristi Klitsh  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Brad Untiedt  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen O'Brien  Colleen McCarthy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Spencer Stefko  Kevin Dalum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Friday, November 6, 1998
The Obsetver • INSIDE 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Walkout publicizes need for tolerance, end to hate crimes 
ATHENS, Ohio 
disability or sexual orientation" will 
Some students focused on the rain­be charged with a Code A Offense and drops splattering against their shoes will be subject to a maximum sanc­and walked away. Others hid in the tion of expulsion, some students said shadow of their umbrellas and rushed that is not enough. to class. Jessica Eve Humphrey, president of 
Most just stopped and listened. OUTGrads, stressed that verbal and More than 100 Ohio University stu­physical violence go hand in hand, dents and faculty members walked and both crimes should be addressed. out of classrooms and offices yester­"[OU administrators] just shut their day to encourage awareness of hate "We are gathered here not only for eyes and think hate crimes will go
the abortion doctor who was recently
crimes and to strengthen preventative away," Humphrey said. "We need 
hate crime measures. killed but because of the lack of con­them to say something, and we need The U.S. Department of Justice cern OU has shown by these {nation­them to say something now." al) events," said Amy Carle, chair­
defines hate crimes as criminal Interim Dean of Students Terry offenses committed against a person woman of Open Doors and organizer Hogan attended the rally and said he 
or a person's property motivated by of the rally. "We need a united stance appreciated the students' concern, the offender's bias against a victim's about these issues to welcome Athens especially without a specific local inci­gender, sexual orientation, race, reli­to the rest of the world." dence to cause them to unite. Hogan gion, ethnicity or disability. Although the OU Student Code of and other administrators plan to meet The students and faculty gathered Conduct states any person who com­with students about hate crime issues. mits "intentional unequal treatment
at the West Portico of Templeton­"Hate crimes are something the 
of a person on the basis of race, age,
Blackburn Alumni Memorial university routinely takes a stance 
sex, creed, religion, national origin,
Auditorium to voice their opinions. on," he said. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Abortion subsidies spark protest 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
While national debate about a woman's right to choose -and who should foot the bill for her choice -has been raging, Harvard has quietly subsidized abortions for stu­dents for over a decade. But after Daniel Choi '94 informed students in an Oct. 30 opinion piece in The Crimson that they subsidize abortions performed by the University Health Services (UHS), anti-abortion students balked at the long-standing policy. Each semester, UHS requires all students to pay a Health Service Fee of $323. According to UHS officials, Harvard pools this money into a budget, from which money is withdrawn to finance all students' medical treatment at UHS facilities. Within this budget, money is allotted to finance abortions for students seeking to terminate a pregnancy. Although UHS's health plan policy is published in annually its Guidebook, few students know that part of their required Health Service Fee may eventually finance abortions. 
• STANfmm UNIVERSITY 
Liver patient drops injunction 
STANFORD, Calif. 
After questions about continued drug w~e. a liver patient who was denied a place on Stanford Hospital's list of eligi­ble donor recipients has dropped his request for a prelimi­nary injunction, according to David Scheuerman, the hos­pital's lawyer. Jonathan Harris, who has an on-and-off history of drug abuse dating to the 1970s, filed suit against UCSF-Stanford Health Care last month after being denied a spot on the waiting list for a transplant, because doctors were not convinced he had discontinued his drug use. Harris lives in Mountain View with his wife Karen, who works at Stanford, according to court records. In 1993, doctors diagnosed Harris with liver disease. Harris' condition has deteriorated and without the transplant, doctors estimate that Harris has less than two months to live, according to court records. "We are trying to respect the patient's confidentiality as much as we can under the circumstances," Scheuerman said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Faculty support affirmative action 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
Two days after affirmative action advocates scored a victory with the triumph of Gray Davis in the race for California governor, faculty at UCLA ponder their next move, after the arguably successful system-wide faculty walkout. The walkout came in response to the low admis­sions numbers for underrepresented minorities at UCLA last year. Many of them voiced displeasure with the uni­versity's outreach efforts, which have been criticized for not making enough of a difference. "As far as I under­stand. most of the outreach is in development," said Rafael Perez-Torres, professor of English and organizer of the event. The two-day walkout protesting the end of affir­mative action, which banned the consideration of race or gender in UC admissions process, attracted around 200 faculty and student protesters. Universities across the nation acted similarly by commemorating the Students and Youth Day of Action in Defense of Affirmative Action. 
• UNIVERSiTY OF TEXAS Glenn contributes to student research 
AUSTIN, Texas 
U.S. Senator and 77 -year-old Astronaut John Glenn will conduct an experiment on leukemia infected cells, which will then be studied by researchers at the University of Texas when the shuttle crew returns to earth. Glenn is currently aboard the Space Shuttle Discovery, which was launched into space last Thursday. He will test the effects of microgravity on the infected Jurkat cells and UT stu­dents will analyze the human cells and use the data to continue research projects begun last Spring. The project has ramifications that could affect the pharmaceuticals and cancer research industries because multi-drug resis­tance is common in leukemia patients, said Jennifer Buchli, a molecular biology and anthropology senior. Jurkat cells, very similar to the HL-60 cells, were used at the University in other microgravity related research, Buchli said. Buchli worked with three other UT students last spring to test the diffusibility of drugs in cells. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Friday, Nov. 6. 40s 30s 
Friday Saturday 
c£S1 Sunday 6i1 
·:·.:::·.:::· 
CQ 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Monday ~-@m""'(b G cg ClJ t:::::-1 CJ t:>.~:::t (~ @~@10 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Vta Assoctated Press 

36. 
Q,~,~P,-@Q (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
NATIONAL SUMMARY: Snow is on the agenda across parts of Idaho, Montana and Wyoming today. From the Plains to the East Coast. another chilly day is at hand for many areas. Flurries will continue downwtnd of the Great Lakes and around the interior Northeast while the Southeast enjoys sunshine. Sunshine is also on tap for the Southwest, where it will also be warm.  
Atlanta 58 34 Houston 66 50 San Diego 68 53 Boston 46 36 Las Vegas 50 24 Seattle 52 38 Chicago 46 32 Los Angeles 70 52 St. Louis 50 31 Dallas 61 44 Miami 78 64 Tampa 73 50 Detroit 46 32 Portland 52 39 Tempe 81 52  

-----~----­
Fr.iday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Student journalists attend writing awards banquet 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Writer 
Notn1 Dame's pride will be apparnnt not only in athletie but also aeadnrnic competition this Wllnkend. as junior Meredith Salisbury and snnior John J.uka1~s travnl to Indianapolis as finalists in the 199H Thomas H. Knating Writing Cornpr.tition. 
Salisbury and Lukacs each narnnd o1111 of the I 0 f'inalist positions in the 12th annual writing eontnst, whieh is opnn t.o nny full-tirnn studnnt onrollod at an aeernditnd Indiana eollege or university. The students submit­tnd three feature writing sam­ples. publisluld or non-pub­lishnd, of no more than 1,500 words each. 
The finalists committed to the final on-site writing contest in Indianapolis this weekend. They will be taken to a location in Indianapolis and given five hours to develop a story. They will thnn move to the newsroom of the Indianapolis Star News where their stories will be judged by professional journal­ists. 
Salisbury, an English and gov­ernment major concentrating in journalism, is "definitely excit­ed" about the competition and feels her chances are pretty fair. 
"!The competition is] a chance to get a little recognition," said Salisbury, who is the associate editor for Scholastic and has an internship at Notre Dame Magazine. 
''I'm pretty lucky," said Lukacs, an American studies major and contributing writer for Blue & Gold Illustrated. 
lie bdieves that at his age, he is fortunate to be involved with professionals such as the editor of Blue & Gold Tim Prister, and Lou Somogyi, who is the associ­ate editor. 
Lukacs has worked part-time for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The Daily Collegiant at Penn State University. He has also completed an internship in the sports department at the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review. 
He attributes much of his suc­cess to both Beano Cook and Chris Fowler, who have had tremendous inf'luence on his interest in journalism. 
The Thomas R. Keating 

Looking for a Well ~ Paying Campus job? 

The Observer Advertising Department is currently hiring for Advertising Account Executives. Great RESUME BUILDER for all majors. FUN AND EXCITING WORK, opportunity to make GREAT MONEY. Sophomores and Freshmen in Business school are strongly encouraged to apply, but the position is open to all job seekers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Stop by our office in 024 South Dining Hall with a resume, or call 1-6900 and ask for Bryan. 
Writing, Competition was dovnl­oped 12 years ago by friends of Keating, a daily columnist for the Indianapolis Star who died at age 45, said Micheal Quinn, co-chairman of the Keating Program Committee. Keating also taught feature writing for seven years at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis [IUPUII. 
The organization raises money through donations from corporations and businesses. Cash prizes for this year's con­test total $3,500. 
Before the students are allowed to leave Indianapolis after the competition, said Quinn, they are given evaluation forms so the contest organiz11rs know how the contest most ben­efits the students. 
According to Quinn, tlic'"most appreciated aspect" of thn eon­test is the hour-long writing cri­tique session each student has with a veteran journalist from the Indianapolis Star. The ses­sions serve as educational tools for the finalists in how to improve their writing perfor­mance. 
"It !llw contest! is very helpful because it gives students a chance to go out there." said Lukacs. 
"You ean't confine journalism to the campus," he added, emphasizing the importance of the on-site competition and experience with journalism pro­fessionals. 
Students from Indiana University Bloomington, IUI'Ul, Franklin College, Purdue and Ball State will compete against Salisbury and Lukacs this week­end. For more information on the Thomas H. Keating Writing Competition, visit the Web at: http://journalism.iupui.edu/Knati ngCompntition.html. 
attitude and aptitude 
foosball any questions? 
rec ru iti ng@dcsys. corn 
r-·-­
page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 6, •1998 
Buying a house, having more not flexible enough to make that covering the necessary, a budget technique she and her 
children and purchasing a sec­choice. It disappoints me that Olmstead will pay about $900 a husband worked out to assist in 
Cash 
continued from page 1 
lion. With just $1.95 million dis­tributed in direct scholarships from University donors and a minimal amount earned through campus employment, 80 percent of students turned to borrowing a total of over $9 million in loans from the federal government and private lenders. 
Most turned to the Federal Stafford Student Loan because of its attractive option of defer­ring interest payments during schooling and its low interest rate, currently at 6.86 percent. 
However, once students reach 
the $8,500-per-year loan limit or $65,000 maximum aggregate, they often resort to private lenders, most of which have higher interest rates. Students can borrow as much as $138,000 more from these private lenders. 
"It's almost impossible to not take out loans," Trulli said. "It can get very tough to survive." In their efforts to scrimp and save, students' post­graduate plans are often dramatically altered by the amount of their loans. 
Law student Eric Hall, his wife and daughter are currently living with his wife's parents in order to save money. 
The Halls, who owe $60,000 in combined student loans ­mostly Federal Stafford -are hoping to be financially stable within seven years. 
But as Hall held his one-year­old daughter Beatrice on his lap, he said he couldn't help but think of how much the loans will effect his life. 
ond car are all necessary dreams of the Halls, he said, dreams they may place on hold because of the money they owe. 
Their debts will also deter­mine where Hall will work, he said. 
"We have to think creatively," he said. "Will I have to take the bus? Can we live close enough to downtown that I can ride my bike to work? We can't avoid thinking about those things." 
Hall leaned toward criminal law coming into Notre Dame, but comparing the salaries of government and private firm lawyers has made him think twice. 
Starting at a private firm, he money plays such a factor where I'll work. I'd hoped money would never dominate so much of what I do." 
Thoughts of subtracting at least $350 a month from pay­checks for a decade or more has many law graduates reach­ing deeper into their pockets. 
According to a recent study sponsored by Key Education Resources of KeyCorp bank, 80 percent of surveyed law stu­dents reported having loans to repay after graduation. 
Despite their indebtedness, many said they planned to spend their new high salaries, starting at about $50,000 for new lawyers, on "big ticket" items like homes and cars. In the study, 41 percent in law school said they plan 
'ITHINK I WANT TO DO WHAT I CAN to purchase a car and 30 percent reported plans of
TO SERVE SOCIETY ••• THEN ( LOOK buying a house. 
AT MY LOANS AND I'M NOT FLEXIBLE 
Law graduates have dis­
ENOUGH TO MAKE THAT CHOICE. IT covered, however, that 
signing for a loan and pay­DISAPPOINTS ME THAT MONEY PLAYS 
ing on a loan are two SUCH A FACTOR.' entirely different things. 
The same study showed that only 23 percent of law ERIC HALL school graduates have ND LAW STUDENT actually bought a car, 
could earn up a $70,000 salary -double that of a public inter­est lawyer. 
With one more year of school ahead of him, Hall is already worrying about what lawyers call the "golden handcuffs." 
"You start to live in a lifestyle that you can only support by, having that high of a salary, and then it's hard to leave," he said. "When I look at all of the lawyer jobs, I think I want to do what I can to serve society ... Then I look at my loans, and I'm while 20 percent say they 
have purchased a home. 
The blow of loans has knocked the wind out of many law graduates. 
Despite working as a corpo­rate lawyer for the Dinsmore and Shohl firm in Cincinnati, Dina Olmstead, a 1997 ND law grad, said she is not living in the lap ofluxury. 
Each month, Olmstead devotes one-third of her month­ly income to paying off $70,000 worth of student loans. That means that besides car pay­ments, phone bills, rent and month for the next 10-15 years. 
"I knew I was borrowing a lot of money," she said, "but I never realized that signing all of those loans would mean this." 
Like many keeping a tight wallet, she has had to use cre­
alum and University of Iowa law graduate, is renovat­ing her house as quickly as pos­sible as part of an attempt to repay loans. 
"We're going to improve the value of the home and borrow against it," she said, explaining repaying the $35,000 she owes from school. "The loans are just motivating us to work faster." 
McFadden said she will also take advantage of a first-year 
'I'LL BE IN DEBT FOR
ative financing. 
ANOTHER FOUR OR FIVEW h i I e 
Olmstead cuts YEARS, BUT I'LL BE A back on costs 
LAWYER FOR THE REST OF
by having a r o o m m a t e , MY LIFE.' K a r e n McFadden, a 1994 Saint FRANK SALAZAR Mary's College ND LAW STUDENT tax law which allows gradu­ates with loans to write off a certain amount of their loan's interest. 
Before the new lawyers' incomes out­weigh their debts, the grad­uates will have substantial bills to pay. But according to 
law student Frank Salazar, who owes $85,000 in loans, waiting for the scale to tip is worth the price."I'll be in debt another four or five years," he said. "But I'll be a lawyer for the rest of my life." 
2 p m, Sunday 11.8.98 
The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents guest artists 
The Mozartean Players 

Steven Lubin, fortepiano Stanley Ritchie, classical violin Myron Lutzke, classical cello 
Annen berg Auditorium, The Snite Museum of Art 
Tickets $10 General Admission $8 ND/SMC community with ID 
$6 Senior Citizen $3 Student 
Tickets available in advance at the LaFortune Box Office, or charge by phone 1219)631-8128. 
For more information, please call (219) 631·6201. 
Notre Dame's Campus-Wide Service Week 
sponsored by Circle-K, co-sponsored by HOBY, Habitat for Humanity, and Recyclin' Irish 
Saturday. November 7 HOBY-12 -4:15 -make sack lunches for Center for the Homeless and watch the BC game 
Sunday. November 8 Humane Society-time TBA-use those finger painting urges to good use and give this animal haven a fresh coat of paint L Habitat for Humanity-SAM-12:15PM-continue constructing this year's Habitat House-get to wear a tool belt 
a
•
Monday. November 9 
Chapin Street Clinic-time TBA-break out the packing boxes and get the Clinic ready for its big move Holy Cross Living Center-4-6:15-one on one interaction with special needs adults 
Tuesday. November 10 Hope Rescue Mission-2-5:15-use your painting skills to brighten up this center 
Center for the Homeless-3-5:15PM-get your hands dirty!~ revitalize and improve this shelter 
Wednesday. November 11 
Dismas House-3-5:15PM-upkeep of this unique house for ex-criminals 
Boys and Girls Club-3:15 -5:30PM -miss recess? -tutor and participate in various games with children 
Thursday. November 12 
Recyclin' Irish -4-6:45PM-check out ND's recycling system and separate recyclables (hard hats & pizza provided!) 
Boys and Girls Club-3:15 -5:30PM -see above 
Friday. November 13 Park Clean-Up-3 -5:15PM-get into the autumn spirit and help beautify a neighborhood park 
0 
Saturday. November 14 Habitat for Humanity-8:00AM-12:00Pm -see above 
NEN Clean-Up-time TBA-renovate crack houses in South Bend 
Logan Rec Saturday-1 O:OOAM-12:00PM-pass the crayons!-arts and crafts with the disabled 


Transportation Provided 
Sign-Ups: Thursday, November 5 -> 9 -11 PM Lafortune Friday, November 6 -> 5 -7PM North Dining Hall Saturday, November 7 -> 5 -7PM South Dining Hall 
Space is limited! First come, first to serve!! Questions? Contact Matt Banach x3807 or Aileen Barry x2674 
Friday, November 6, 1998 
• 'fS 
Toxic chemicals spill from derailed freight train 
lll~NDHHSON, W.Va. 
llundrnds ol' residPnts !waded indoors Thursday wlwn stwt~n rlwmit:al tankt~rs on a CSX Transportation train derailed, -;pilling 20,000 gallons of a toxic solution. TIH· a ct'idnn t prom pt.ed tlw closing of sev­<'ral roads and a rwarhy portion of the Ohio HivPr aftPr a ynllow cloud spewed l'rom thP spill. Four people who drove through Uw doud wnnt to a hospital with burning t~y«>s and lwadarlws. All four were lr<'at«>d and rPIPasnd. Seven of 120 cars wenl niT llrt• tracks in a spanwly populated area about()() miles northwest of C:ltarlc•ston. spilling a hydrochloric acid solution. Other dwmicals on the train did­n't IPak, CSX spokt~snwn Handy Cheetham said. 
Show will go on after stabbing 
MILWAUKEE 
In "I l'agliar.ei," l.eoncavallo's one-act opera about a travnling troupe of actors. Canio proclaims he is "no longer acting" when he fatally stabs his unfaithful wife, N«>dda. and lwr lover, Silvio. In a rehearsal of a J.'Jornntirw Opera Company production WtHirwsday, a baritone playing Silvio was ;u:cidnntally stabbed when the blade of the knife used as a prop failed to retract during tlw scene. Kimm Julian, 48, of Brooklyn Park. Minn., was released Thursday from Froedtert Memorial Lutheran Hospital Thursday after emergency surgery. Dennis Hanthorn, the opera company's gen­c~ral director, said the show would go on as planrwd next week. but Julian planned to n~turn home to Minnesota and would not appear in tlw production. 
Companies, task force reach agreement on sweatshops 
NEW YORK 
A White llouse task force that grew out of thn Kathie Lee Gifford sweatshop scan­dal has signed a pact with employers like Nike and Henhok to protect workers at OV(~rseas factories. lluman rights groups and a union sharply critieized the agree­nwnt, which would still allow employees as young as 14 to work 60-hour weeks, often for less than $I a day. President Clinton praised tlw deal, calling it a "historie step toward reducing sweatshop labor around thn world." Under the aecord, American manufacturers pledge not to do business with companies that use forced labor or require employees to work more than 60 hours a week. Companies will prohibit hir­ing children youngnr than 15 except in countries where 14-ynar-olds can work legally. 
Dow 
AMEX: 668.02
}ONES 
+2.52 Nasdaq:
8915.47 
1837.10 
+13.53 
NYSE: 
562.18 
+7.04 
S&P 500: 1133.85 

Composite
+15.1S 
Volume: +132.33 935,302,800 
VOLUME LEADERS 
rn~ll!~~:o· l'lriH'B ~ nJ~~sa· SSiAl~ £81ft; 
0:\IFC;A('OHI• 10M +12.~11 +I.OOHO 9.110 ('IS('() SYSTt<:,\IS l'SCO +.UJ +2.2~HCI 67.Hil~ MWfHJSOftT ('OHI' MSfoT +II.H.' +0.H75U lfkU75 UEI.I.('OMPliTE.._ lli':I.L +11.29 +0.1K75 65.5625 cTrU;KOlii'IN(' CCI +1.9K +11.117511 45.00 HEXAI.I.SI!NJ)OWN RXSU -·UI.62 -K.IJJ75 1.\.0625 INTI-:l. ('ORI• INl'(' -IUI6 -0.11125 94.00 Mt'l \'\IOJU.IWOM INC WCOM ·2.61 -umoo ~!.9.175 OR..U'I.E C'ORI~ ORCI. +.l.HH +1.187!11 .H.812~ YAUOO INt.' YIIOO +11.21 +lUtl!'i 1!111.687~ 

AFP Photo 
Soldiers help unload a cargo plane at a Honduran Air Force base in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, Thursday, as it carries humanitarian aid for the hundreds of thousands of people affected by major floods and landslides caused by Hurricane Mitch which recently slashed across the Central American region. 
Clinton increases aid to $70 million 
AssociATED PREss 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton request­ed a "global relief effort" to help hurricane-battered Central America and issued orders Thursday boosting 
U.S. emergency aid to $70 million. 
The president is dispatch­ing a delegation next week led by Tipper Gore, wife of Vice President AI Gore, to deliver some of the supplies destined for Honduras, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Guatemala. 
"I believe this trip will expand awareness through­out the U.S. and the world of the devastation faced by the people of Central America, in order to encourage a global relief effort," Clinton said. 
Mrs. Gore will be in Central America on Tuesday and Wednesday, aceompanied by Brian Atwood, head of the U.S. Agency for International Development, and several members of Congress. 
First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton also added Nicaragua and Honduras to a trip she plans to the region beginning Nov. 16. She will be in Haiti and Dominican Republic for visits canceled in October because of Hurricane Georges. 
Officials in the affected Central American countries estimated Hurricane Mitch's death toll at more than 10,000, with thou­sands in Honduras still unaccounted for. 
Clinton announced $30 million in military equip­ment for search, rescue and rebuilding. He also added $20 million to the $3.7 mil­lion in emergency food and other aid and said he would send another $16 million in disaster assistance next week. 
Private relief groups in the United States were flooded with calls volun­
teering money and sup­plies. 
Dean Owen, spokesman for World Vision, said sev­eral hundred calls an hour were being received. lie said he hopes to raise $5 million in money and dona­tions of blankets, towels, soap and other per­sonal care items. 
"This is one of the largest efforts we've had in several years," Owen said. World Vision operates around the world. 
Some of the first supplies to arrive in Honduras were 
7. 5 tons of goods sent by Hondurans in Texas. 
Doctors Without Borders' New York office also appealed for donations for its work with storm victims in Nicaragua, Honduras and Guatemala. The Salvation Army made a similar plea, announcing deployment to Nicaragua of a disaster-response team based in Costa Rica. 
The U.S. Peace Corps, 
with 620 volunteers in the storm's path, pulled out 200 living in llonduras but said those in other coun­tries would remain. Family members of' U.S. embassy personnel in Tegucigalpa also were given the option of leaving the country and officials said they expected to evac­uate about one-third. 
Brendan Daly, Peace Corps spokesman, said the decision was made for the volunteers' safety because of limited food and water supplies. They were being taken to Panama and would return in a week or two, Daly said. 
"We're trying to figure out what their proper role can be," he said. Joan Timoney, director of the agency's crisis corps, is in Nicaragua assessing the need for a possible group of temporary Peace Corps volunteers to help with disaster relief, Daly said. 
French student protests weaken 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
PARIS 
Most high school students chose to hit the books instead of th~ streets Thursday, a:;J low turnout in a third round of nationwide marches sig· naled a weakening ot' their fledgling movement. 
Only about 2,600 students marched through Paris, pollee said, far less than two protestslast month when hundreds of thousands poured into 
the  streets.  About  10,000  
marchers  had  been expected  
Thursday.  

Outside the capital, turnout was also low. Police said 1,500 students marched in both Lyon and Bordeau~, while smaller groups gathered in Toulon, Nice, Grenoble and Rennes. 
With French police Jn riot gear 
lim)g the boulevards, the Paris protest wa~ calm, lacking the vio­Ien,cf:l that marred previous marches. Studerlts carrie({ banners and linked arms, but·th~ mo()d waslargely sub­dued; 
"We're here tO showsolidarity," said JQnas Parierite, 16, who marched. in Paris> "We still have complaints, but it may be the last march.'' 
The students are protesting over· er<.>wded classrooms. outmoded equipment, a lack, of teachers and other conditions they say leave them badlypreparedfor the future. 
Following last .month's protests. Education Minister Claude Allegre announced. the addition of thousands of teachers and assistants. 
Still, many stUd(;)nts remain skepti­cal that the ministry's plans, which also called Jm:ne-w equipment and a lighter work load, are sufficient to improve conditions. 
"We have 35 students in every class, and that has to change," said Guillaume Thfoin, 17, who attends school south of Paris. 
"We started something, and now we want to finish it," said Aline Doussin, 16, a Paris student. "Allegre only gave us half of what we asked for." 
Already France's biggest budget item, education funding is limited by the leftist government's desire to remain qualified for the euro, the European single currency that debuts at the end of the year. 
Last month's protests disintegrated into violent rock-throwing demons· trations. Much of.' the violence was caused by youths from troubled sub­urbs who were not connected to the protests. 
page 6 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 6, 1998 
Builders 
continued from page 1 
person who we think of as a teacher. and hence perhaps removed from practice, who fellow practitioners admire." 
Michael Smith, director of facilities engineering, also received a citation from the AlA for his work in renovating Notre Dame Stadium. 
The project was recognized for not only adding 23 new rows of seating, but for pre­serving the original exterior within the new facade, according to Douglas Marsh, project manager for facilities engineering. 
"It was recognized for how effective the design was in treating the existing stadium -the existing bowl-by sim­ply wrapping a larger bowl around it," said Marsh. 
"We hear people comment all the time about how nice it was not to have destroyed the old stadium." 
Prof evaluates cultural crisis 
Vi~lent past caused changes in dress, speech 
By KATI MILLER 
News Writer 
Unexplained changes in El Salvadoran culture can trace their roots to the violent 1932 rebellion and massacre in El Salvador, said historian Jeffrey Gould. 
During the massacre, "gov­ernment troops and civil guards executed more than 10,000 peasants, mostly young Indian males." and altered the course of El Salvador's native culture, Gould said. 
Gould, a professor of history at Indiana University, addressed the effects of that massacre on El Salvadoran cul­ture, language and dress at a Thursday lecture. 
He said that the indigenous language of El Salvador, Nahuatl, is no longer used. Many peasants report the lan­guage was phased out because of natural communication problems, but that claim has been questioned by Gould's scrutiny. 
"Linguists from 1950 to 1970 were convinced that people spoke the language in their homes but denied that to out­siders," Gould said. 
Another consequence of the massacre was the loss of indigenous dress, called el Refajo. The peasants claim this occurred because the fabric for el Refajo became too expensive and was unsuitable for field and factory labor. 
Gould explained that the his­torical record contradicts these reasons and that the loss of dress was more probably caused by the shame and embarrassment of the Indians. 
Gould also remarked that many of the eyewitness accounts contradict official reports. There are several rea­sons for this problem, accord­ing to Gould. Many of the eye­witnesses were children or adolescents at the time of the massacre and did not fully understand the causes of the rebellion. Gould also said fear of the government may have caused the witnesses to sup­press their memories. 
An economic crisis that crip­pled the domestic coffee indus­try spurred the rebellion, Gould said. 
"The crisis resulted in wage cuts of up to 50 percent," he 
'said. "The wage cuts in turn caused an increased member­ship in labor unions." Gould's research is part of a joint project titled "Memories of Mestizaje: Cultural Politics in Central America since 1920." 
The OlJserver is lool~ing for some­one who is sJ.~illed at programming and scripting for the Mac to assist in the llevelopment of the Observer's website. This is a paid position. 
If interested please contact Jenn at 271-9145, or leave a note in the Web Administrator mailbox at the Observer Offices (basement of Soutl1. Dining Hall) 

Election Analysis Roundtable with Senator Bill Bradley 
Monday, November 9 11:45-1:00 Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Bring your lunch and join Senator Bradley, the College Democrats and the College Republicans in discussing the results of the 1998 elections. 
Sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha, College Democrats and College Republicans. 

--------------------~---------------­
hiday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
---------------------------------~~~~~-=~~~~~~~----------------------------------~~~ 
Play confronts issues that plague minorities 
Theater group focuses on race problems facing college students 
By JESSICA DELGADO Nt·w,Wrlln 
Tho multipln sorial eonsn­qunnrns or rarism dominatnd tlw stag1~ last night in an orig­inal cultural play prosontnd from thn African-Amnriean pnrspPrtivn. 
Tlw Chil:ago-based theatnr troupn MI'AACT prnsnntod ··nw lnsidn." a play about the lifn of a young black girl from Mississippi. 
Tlw main charaetnr is l·:mrna. who dnscrihes herself encountered growing up. accomplish. and affected and has an expe­The group also discussed as "a skinny, littln black girl A quostion-and-answer ses­"As a company, we have a rience that will stay with experiences faced by minori­
with ashy lngs and a concavo sion followed tho play, during heartfelt and singular com­them for months or years to ties within a college setting. dwst" that shams her oxperi­which actors and musicians mitment to ensuring that our come," said the show's direc­Lydia Diamond, who wrote l'ncns with racism that shn discussnd what they hope to audience is touched, moved tor. the play and portrayed Emma, 
described feeling left out in 


college and never exactly being accepted for who or what she was. For example, people asked about her hair with questions like, "Do you wash it? llow does it fool? llow come you had short hair yesterday, but now it's long?" 
Even though thesn qtwstions seem like perfectly harmless inquiries, they arc receivnd as yet anothnr way for an African-American to stand out, according to Diamond. 
Hacism as a social issun continues to efTeet thn univer­sity experience, nspeeially for minorities. In addition to tlw common struggles faced by college students, minorities m u s t d e a I w i t h t h e ad d (~ d pressures attributable to thnir skin color. 
Diamond alleged that some collnges still discriminate by enrolling about 40,000 people and only about 2,500 of them are black. 
MPAACT is an acronym, the first letter of which stands for Ma'at, the traditional African concept about living truth and unconditional love. The group hopes to base its productions on these values. Production Association of Afrikan Centered Theatre completes the acronym. 
MPAACT began in 11J90 by a group of students at University of Illinois. They arc now based out of Chicago and do a variety of performances and services. 
The group also provides technical serviens, graphic designs and storytelling for children. 

The Waterboy PG-13 1:55. 2:35, 4:05, 5:05, 7:00, 7:30, 9:15, 9:45 
The Wizard of Oz G 2:10.4:35,7:15,9:35 
Apt Pupil R 2:25, 4:50, 7:20, 10:00 Bride of Chucky R 2:30. 5:00, 7:25, 9:50 Halloween H20 R 2:15.4:40. 7:05, 9:30 
Practical Magic PG-13 2:00, 3:00, 4:30, 5:30, 7:10, 7:55,9:40, 10:25 
Pleasantville PG-13 2:00, 4:45, 7:40, 10:20 
The Siege R 1:50,2:45,4:20,5:15,7:05 8:00, 9:55, 10:30 
Saving Private Ryan R 3:15, 7:45 The Mighty PG-13 2:20, 4:55, 7:35, 10:05 What Dreams May PG·13 2:50, 5:25, 7:50,10:30 
!OPAlS !IM£5 ONlY fO~I OM ACV.INtl JCK!I S:.liS kANDICAP oC:EISill! I NO PA!i!! • NO !U'!JIAVIII 
-~-m~-----~-­
---. 
The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 6, 1998 
&sociated Press 
INDEPENDENC13i"\f'a. •··• ,·.~ ... -· ,... , 
A White sawmill worker was convicted Thursday · o(frrst-c:J.egree mu1:der burning death after a night 
.Jng. The man ·beheaded. 
Emmett Cr turned 38 Th been charged • murder in th Garnett Jv1u.1:>v.u. carried a uv:>·lliWJitr 
The uu:I./Uu.lu'u for first-degree . in prison. 
The all-white Cressell of a bing Johnson; set for Friday 1u"''1 u•u*·· 
Cressell's r ha·rann trial ended with no direct evi-}.,~·'•·t·nre: of'.Jollnsonr~ t:•r:i~ dence that he dousedthe slightly-built 40..'year~old handyman with gasoline and set him ablaze. 
Louis Ceparano, who plead• ed guilty in the case in May, testified that he was too his Closing 
drunk to recall the slaying ftYin~ ~9. cov~r up "one of the outside his isolated, moun­most '\dolent; horrible mur• tainside home just before dersthatwe have had in this dawn on July 25, 1997. county or this state;~ 
Female friends of the two He $a,id Anderson gave the 
white men told the jury that most revealing testimony: Cressell and Ceparano car­that Cressell tookJobnson's ried Garnett Johnson from watch and warned him he Ceparano's ramshackle trail­was about to die, saying, er, but they never. saw who "You're not going to need set him on fire or who later that watch. Where you'rebeheaded his charred corpse. going they have their own They offered conflicting· testi-tiine." 
Student Activities is now hiring: 
Ballroom Monitor primarily evenings and weekends 
UPS Shipping Service Attendants Shifts: llam-6pm M-F llam-2pm Saturdays 
Applications available at the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune 
Judge tosses anti-abortion law 
Associated Press criminal penalties. Heyburn said there were 
Heyburn said the statute too other problems with the 
FRANKFORT, Ky. broadly defines the prohibited statute, including the fact that 
A federal judge on Thursday abortion procedures. it does not allow an exceptionthrew out a new Kentucky law The law banned so-called for doctors who perform the that banned certain late-term "partial-birth abortions," in procedure in order to save the abortion procedures. which a fetus is partially deliv­life or health of the mother, 
U.S. District Judge John ered vaginally and destroyed, which other federal courts have 
Heyburn II said the law is then the delivery completed. stressed as critical to abortion "unconstitutional and invalid." Physicians who perform oth­restrictions. He prohibited any prosecution erwise legal abortions could Attorney General Ben of doctors who perform such fear prosecution under the Chandler's office said no deci­abortions, which the statute statute, and Heyburn said that sion had been made on from the 1998 General is enough to make it unconsti­whether the decision would be Assembly made subject to tutional. appealed. 


PUBLIC LECTURE 
"CIVIC ENGAGEMENT IN AMERICAN DEMOCRACY" 
THEDASKOCPOL 
Professor of Government and Sociology at Harvard University 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1998 7:30PM 
HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES AUDITORIUM 
SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENTS OF SOCIOLOGY AND GOVERNMENT AND THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE 
ATTENTION Urban Plunge Applications are due at the esc TODAY Nov. 6 by 5:00pm
Truman Show  
(PG)  
4:40 7:20 9:50  4:00 6:50 9:30  Sat. Sun. Matinee 1  
Sat. Sun. Matinee 2:10  Sat. Sun. Matinee 1 :10  
Lethal Weapon 4  The Mask of Zono  Ever After  
(R)  (PG13)  (PG13)  
4:10 7:00 9:40  5:00 8:00  4:30 7:10 9:45  
Sat. Sun. Matinee 1 :20  Sat. Sun. Matinee 2:00  Sat. Sun. Matinee 1 :40  

visit our website at www.kerasotes.com 
---~-~~-~--­
Friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
UN orders Iraq's cooperation 
.UNITED NATIONS 
The U.N. Security Council unanimously dmnanded Thursday that Iraq resume cooperation with U.N. weapons inspoetors imnwdi­ately. Baghdad has already announced it won't comply. 
The 15-mtHnber council made no explicit threats to use force, show.ing it remains dividnd on what to do if Baghdttd rnl'usos to obey. 
The United States and Britain say they already have authorization to take military action against Iraq from previ­ous council resolutions. 
In Washingtcin, State Departmont spokesman James Hubin said the resolution "further confirms our view that this and previous resolu­tions do authorize the use of military force if necessary." 
But that view is rejected by other council members. 
Hussian Ambassador Sergey Lavrov warned that any attempt ·to use force would have "highly unpredictable and dangerous consequences" for Mideast peace and future U.N. efforts to monitor Baghdad's weapons programs. 
"The way to overcome this new crisis lies, we think, oxclusively in political and diplomatic efforts," he said. 
The resolution didn't include a timetable for lifting crippling 
'THE WAY TO OVER~ 
COME THIS NEW CRJ~ SIS UFS, WE THINK, EXCLU· SIVELY IN POUTICAL AND 
DIPLOMATIC EFFORTS.' 
St.1WBY LAVROV RUSSIAN AMBASSADOR 
economic sanctions, which Iraq has demanded as the price for resuming cooperation with the inspect<Jrs. 
The resolution puts into international law the council's statement Saturday that con­demned Iraq's decision to halt cooperation as a "flagrant vio­lation" ofU.N. demands. 
Acting U.S. Ambassador Peter Burleigh noted that 
President Clinton has "empha­sized that all options are on the table and the United States has the authority to act.~ 
~Iraq should recognize the gravity of the situation it has created," Burleigh said. 
British Ambassador Jeremy Greenstock said the council's authority to use force "may be reviv1~d if it decides that there has been a sufficiently serious breach of the conditions laid down by the council for the cease*fire" that ended the Persian Gulf War in 1991. 
In the resolution, council mcmbors reaffirmed their readiness to hold "a compre­hensive review" of Iraq's com.­pliance, which could lead to lifting an oil embargo and other trade restrictions if U.N. inspectors declare Iraq has disarmed. But this offer is con• ·.. 
• tingent on Iraq's cooperation, 
French ·Ambassador Alain Dejammet, who~e coUiltry has · been. sympathetic to Ufting sa.nctlons, said the unanimo'(tS vote demonstrated the coun­cil's "unity in the face of an Iraqi decision .wliich was immediately descrj}:)ed as irra­tional anti unacceptable;" 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Judiciary Committee .Chairman Henry llyde asked 
President Clinton on Thursday 
to answer 81 questions for the 
H o u s e 
impeach­
Ill e n t 
inquiry, 
including 
whether he 
made "false 
and mislead­
ing" state­

ments under Clinton 
oath. 
In a letter to Clinton, Hyde, H­
Ill., said the questions should 
be answered under oath and 
the answers would be used 
only for the impeachment 
inquiry, not in other legal mat­
ters. It was unclear how the 
president would respond. 
The detailed questions delve beyond the grand jury ques­tioning of Clinton by Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr's prosecutors on Aug. 17, which was limited to four hours 
Who hires 
Notre Dame tax grads in over 100 U.S. locations? 
Delaitte& the answer l• s Touche 
Hyde seeks answers in 81-question letter 
by agreement with Clinton's lawyers. 
llydn's qunstions focused on a IIll gations of' perjury or obstruction of justice by the president. Nonn sought details of his snxual encounters with former While llouse intern Monica Lewinsky. 
At a news conf'ornnce in Chicago, llyde said the purpose of the questions was to "narrow the issuns and bring this mattnr to a dose morn quickly." 
"The president is frne to dis­pute, of course, whatever he wants. 13ut by agreeing to those facts that he does not dispute, he will allow us to narrow tho issues and bring this-matter to a close more quickly,"' said Hyde, who reiterated that he hoped to finish the inquiry by the end of the year. 
He said Starr would be the only major witness in tho com­mittee's proceedings, scheduled for Nov. 19, and acknowledged the prosecutor might be asked to discuss other facets of his probe, such as the firing of White House travel office employees or the alleged mis­use of FBI Iiles. 
White llouse press secretary Jon Lockhart said it was too soon to say how Clinton would respond to the rnquest, but "we plan to cooperate with this committee." 
Clinton's lawyers wnre reviewing Hyde's letter, and "I expect they'll respond," Lockhart said. 
Among the questions for Clinton: 
•"Do 
you admit or deny that you gave false and misleading testimony under oath in your deposition in the case of Jones vs. Clinton when you responded 'once or twiee' to the question, 'lias Monica Lewinsky ever given you any gifts?"' 

•"Do 
you admit or deny you had knowledge that any facts or assertions eontained in tho affidavit executed by Monica Lewinsky on .Jan. 7, 1998, in the case of .Jonos vs. Clinton were not true'?" 


That question refers to Ms. Lewinsky's affidavit for Paula Jones' sexual harassment against Clinton. In thn affidavit, Ms. Lewinsky falsely denied having a sexual relationship with the president. 
Clinton also was asked about his public statements. One question asked about the truth­fulness of' his assertion in January that "I nevor told any­body to lin, not a single timo, never." 
The questions weavn through the testimony of key figures in the impeachment investigation, including Ms. Lewinsky, presi­dential friend Vmnon .Jordan, oval office seeretary Betty Currin and others. 
Used, rare and out-of-print books Initial cost of $2.CD Nationally -circulated ad Success rate of 50% Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232-8444 

VIEWPOINT 

------------------Friday, November 6, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhal~-r Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .......................Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER........................ Bryan Lutz VIEWPOINT EDITOR .. . ... Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brert Huelat SPORTS EDITOR .......... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS...........................Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPIIICS EDITOR ...............................Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........... ..... Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhc independent newspaper published by th(.• srudcms of r_h~ Uni.versity ~f Nn:rre .Da~u: J.u Lac and. Saint Mary's Collcsc; It doe. nor necessarily ~dlccr th~ policies_ or .rhe adnumstrauon n:f ~Jther mstnur~o~. rhc 11~.!1 IS reponed as accut.l~ly and objectively as possible. UJ~s1gnc~ cduonals rcprcscm rh~ opmton of rhc m.;'lonty of rhc Ediror~in-Chief, Managing 1.-:.ditor, t\Mistant Managmg Ed1ror and department editors. _Com~emanes: lcne_rs and columns pre!>em dle views of rhe aU[hors, and nor n~ccssarily rhose of The_ ?bserver. Viev.:pomr spac~ IS av~d~hlc to aJI members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's commumty and to all readers. I he free expressiOn of varymg opm1ons 
...\\t.'i..XM PRO­
CVO\CE... 
through leners is encouraged. Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Photo 631-5323 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Ediwr/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail 
• EDITORIAL 
·• _,.,, .. ,.t..
ND M.us 
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
-Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
Hiring Discrimination 
Dean Carolyn Woo ofthe business college recently brought close to home the issue of sexual orientation·based discrimination. At 
the Academic Council'~ October meeting. 
so:roewbere,, 
Woo admitted she did nothire ajob candi"' tion e . sts, ............ 
·· ·····.·x~··· ·.'· sthe 
seems, then Notre Dame participated in a hiring discrimination based on a candidate's sexual preference. The current silent treat­ment only implies that her revelation is of minuscule concern to the administration. 
Did Woo drop a bombshell with this infor­mation, or did the powers-that·be already know? Is it common practice with University hirings to weigh one's personal 
life more heavily than one's credentials and 
resufu~)? .. 
No answer. 
date -who sources saidshe dubbed "by far the most qualified applicantfor the job"-'-' chiefly because he revealed in an interview that he is a practicing homosexual. 
In the weeks and years preceding that meeting, voices across campus spoke up loudly both in favor ofand against adding sexual orientation to Notre Dame's legal non-discrimination clause,· Much of that died down in the wake ofthe Col.lllcil's wise decision to conduct moreresearch bef(lre recommending or dismissin~ the addition. 
In turning downthe volume onthat debate. the Notre Dame community over­looked Woo's important revelation. The administration simply hltthe mute button. 
SiJlce that story broke a month ago ­nothing but silence. 
Four separate sources fr!)m the closed council meeting confirmed that Woo, highly respected both in South Bend and beyond, ·· 
Universlty intends for no .. .. . it. Dea11Woo's busy schedule bijs .[lqt left her time to take a reporter's phone <;alls, and administrators refuse to comment on the E}vents.of closed meetings. 
But four Council meml:5ers did; now, the issue is out in the open and itbegs further investigation. . · 
Discrimination of any kindJst91lweighty an IsSu-e to sweep under tb..¢ y refus-. 
..tng~~swet.'.Q.ttefltions . ation! the Utli':(lrsity appears .·. .. ·..···· ...·· . ing a person's private life as gr():Und$ toreject the ·!:lest cmtdidate for a job; That in turn por­tends tha.t the proposal to amendthe clause is destinedfor a quick death .at the hands of either the Council or the Board ofTrustees. .For their part. students whosay they revile discriminationneed towondt:lr if this silencemeans such actions lU'e common­place .otre Dame' · losed 
said she hired someone else to fill the posh 
pel)ple ~-•$tu~· tion in question. Presumably, that someone 
~;tculty may nev ..•..·..•.•. ·..••... ···· ..··. e
is less suited to it, mea.nitig business stu· ~nthfring·discrimi:riati.oll bOthers the 
dents apparently are not bei:rig taught by the most qualified instructor. 
Woo's revelation is doubly troubling when placed against the backdrop of the current clause debate. One of the University's most reiterated arguments against amending the clause is the worry that "frivolous lawsuits" University at all. 
IfNotre Dame supports Wo()~sactions, then the community deservesto know why sofueone's personal activities take prece· de.nce over giving studentS the pest possible ed~ct:tti.~n and educator. \-Vooniust clarify her<actions and set the record straight out 
could crop up at every tnrn. Butjust how 
r her profe$$io unity~ frivolous would they be? i .. ···... . ~chelo:n oflicia~ hidingIf Woo's story is as eut;and:.dried as it questionable 4~ ... _·. .. .. •.
iheii ~·no comment'' approac tO: closed meetings as grounds to ignore what became a puhlic issue. The silence not only casts aspersions on Woo's professional judgment, but devalues the institution that lets such incidents pass without comment. 
If no one breaks the silence,itforces stu· dents and faculty to take Woo'srevelation at its shallow face value. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Abortion Issue Unrelated to Bradley's Beneficial Presence on Campus 
This letter is no{ in response to any recent incident or trend. Rather, il is an attempt to balance the discussion by voicing part of the silent majority in what has become a one·sided argu­ment. 
Former Senator Bill Bradley has lee· tured several times during the course of the fall semester. His lectures have covered U.S. public policy in the welfare state and in the post Cold-War era­topics on which his years in public office make him thoroughly qualified to speak, and which we are fortunate to hear ftrst·hand. 
However, an extremely vocal minori· ty, supported by an even more vocal alumni group, sees Sen. Bradley's lee· tures and one·credit course as "an embarrassment," and a demonstration of hypocrisy by the N.D. administration. The NDISMC Right·to·Life group believe that Sen. Bradley's record in support of Pro·Choice legislation makes his pres­ence here in direct opposition to the University's Catholic teachings. They have flown anti-Bradley banners for 
N.D. football audiences. There have been numerous letters to The Observer and other campus publications denouncing the lecture series. 
What I fail to see is what any of these protests have to do with something as totally unrelated as a lecture on post­Cold War America. I am the first to appreciate someone willing to show activism in their beliefs, but I don't see the sense of this particular debate. I encourage those responsible to ques· tion their own actions; What has the protest of Sen. Bradley's speeches done for the anti-abortion cause? By not hearing a lecture discussing the future of idealism and warfare in the U.S., will I be swayed to support the Pro·Life movement? Should Notre Dame forbid Bradley and all other speakers whose opinions arn in contrast with the Catholic doctrine to speak about any­thing'? What would the academic atmosphere on campus be like without any contribution from anyone who is Pro-Choice? Judaism and Islam have direct contradictions to the University's Catholic mission, so should we not host a lecture on the environment. should the lecturer be Jewish? 
So many at this school so often com­plain about our perceived lack of debate and discussion on campus. The administration has responded by host­ing a lecture series, full of it's own eon­troversy. taught by a first-rate source: Rather than embrace the chance to fos­ter this discussion and encourage more like it, many have chosen to turn a deaf ear in the name of their religious beliefs, despite their irrelevance to the debate at hand. While the University may frown upon some of Sen. Bradley's voting history. it is allowing us the opportunity to hear his beliefs on other issues. Abortion is against the teachings of the Vatican and the Catholic Church. There are numerous opportunities for Pro-Ufe advocates to voice their opin­ions and fight for change. Senator Bradley's speeches are not among those chances. I hope those who dis­agree realize this before they try to suf­focate a worthwhile academic debate before it begins. 
Jeff Beam Senior, OffCampm November 5, I998 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
I WV'T THINK G4 JeANI/3. I MEJAN,/A/8U f..&TA RWM I've60Trr.1 IF fT GTARTG 70 6eT TOO /10/(/A80UT COW, 8UT rr5 HAl?/? FOR A 5UMPTVOUS 
VIlLA IN
A COUPt/3 CFOW81/?P!3 UK/3 US 70 OIANG£ a/!< UF/3-ll/SC'ANY.:'' GTYL&G, RIGHT, &/.MONT? 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Liberty means responsi­bility. That is why most men dread it.' 
-George Bernard Shaw 
VIEWPOINT 
Friday, November 6, 1998 -------------------Q~~fRVER -----------------------------------------------page II 
• THE COMMON Gooo 
The Loyal Dissent of Neo-Conservative Economics, Part III 
In my last column, I showed how the neo-consnrv­atiVI' dPnial of ~~co nomic rights eonstitutes dissent from Catholie social doctrine. Today, I will indicatE~ how movnnwnt towards assent to Catholic. doctrine will n·quirP mon~ than simply a shift on tht) ques­tion of t•conomie rights for tlw nno-t:onservatives. This is IH•causP tlwy back their dm1ial of m:onomic rights with tlwological and philosophical arguments that giw din~ct support for a form of political neono­
================ my that
itsnlf rnjm:ts 
-----========:._ _ _:__ consnrv­
Todd David  econom­ic: rights.  
To  
Whitmore  acenpt econom­ic rights,  
the neo­ 

atives would have to jettison tlw bulk of their theological and philosophical framework. 
Tlw dirPctthnologieal argumnnt for capitalism (a markd economy that dons not aecnpt nconomic rights as part of thn juridkal framework for limiting tlw marknt) is rnost twidnnt in "Toward the Futuro," a documPnt issued by the sPlf-titlnd "Lay Commission on Catholic Social Tnaching and the 
U.S. Economy" and drafted primarily by Miehanl Novak. Ilew, tlwy usn passages from Matthnw 25 to funetion as prool'texts for capitalism. Tlw k1~y seriptural teaching and spreading of her soeial doctrine are 
part of the Church's evangelizing mission."(41) In 
short, the aim of thE) social doetrine is to draw upon 
moral and thnologieal concepts to critique all sys­tems in light of whether they promote or obstruct the realization of human dignity. Support for any 
concrete system, tlwrefore, is always conditional and made on prudential grounds rather than 
argued directly from scripture or natural law. When the Pope dons draw on the "imago Dei" doc­
trine in "Laborem Exercens" and elsewhere, it is to 
make the general point about the priority of the whole person -including the human creative 
capacity-over material well-being, not to back a specific system of political economy. Moreover, John Paul does not USfl the Bible as a prooftHxt like 
Novak does. lie is aware that someone else could just as well use the passage on cares about Harthly things ("Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth," Matthflw 6:19-21 and 25-33) to argue that investment capitalism is intrinsically evil, or the parable of the laborers in the vineyard, where each receives the same pay regardless of hours worked (Matthew 20: 1-16) to give direct backing for com­munism and its credo, "From each according to his ability; to each according to his need." Whether to back capitalism or soeialism, scriptural prooftexting in this way is, according to the Pope, ideology, not theology. 
Novak's direct and unconditional arguments lead to a portrayal of the market as an intrinsic good. 
For John Paul, it is only a condition­
al good: it is good to the extent that 
passaw~s arn thosP of thn para­it aids rather than obstructs human
'"f:'\lR THE CHURCH DOFS
hit~ of tlw talenL-; and the injune­flourishing. It is perhaps the view tions to li~nd tlw hungary and £ NOT PROPOSE ECO... that it is an intrinsic good that leads c:lot.lw tlw naked. Thn the neo-conservatives to think that
NOMIC POLITICAL SYSTEMS
Commission usns tlw parable of economic rights arc not necessary tlw talPnts to argw~ for OR PROGRAMS, NOR DOFS as part of the juridical framework Anwri1:an-style !'apitalism by that limits the market's excesses. It
SHE SHOW PREFERENCE FOR
noting that tlw person who also leads them to be more benign buri1~d thn tahmts is dmstised ONE OR THE OTHER, PROVID-about those excesses. For instance, lwnws1~ lw did not invnst tlw the Pope refers repeatedly and 
ED THAT HUMAN DIGNIIT IS money and thus produce morn insistently to the problem of soci­
PROPERLY RESPECTED AND
wt•alth. If we as a sodnty invnst eties where the market rationale our talents. the argument goes. PROMOTED.' overrides all other ways of thinking then tlwre will be enough and doing, what John Paul calls 
wealth so that those who arn "consumer societies" (cf. lwttPr oil' will givn to thn chari­-POPE JOHN PAUL II "Redemptor Hominis," 15 and 16; 
tahlt• organizations that aid thn poor. Tlw lattet· will thus be fed and rlotlwd. The parable of the talents "details tlw terribln punishments which lie in storo for those who do not produen nnw wealth from tlw talents." lnvestmnnt of capital, moreover, is tlw way to aid tlw poor. "From before the time of .l1~sus multitudE's have livnd in poverty and undnr tyranny. To furthnr their liberation, our IAmm·icanl ford'atlwrs dnsignml an order of politieal economy in whkh the poor and needy might routinely raisn tlwmsP!ves out of poverty by methods economically wise and !'onduriw to unparalleh~d eeonomic cre­ativity. In short, such passages as Matthflw 25 have not only personal but also systmnatic applications." 
(x-xU 
Novak couples this scriptural argument for capi­talism with a form of natural law argument. !Iuman !wings an• rrnated in the image of God ("imago Dei"). and as such have, in an analogous way, sonw of tlw capadties of God. Among these are certain capacities for rationality-in a tradi­tional vnrsion of natural law thought, the natural law is <;od's ntnmal law imprinted on the mind of human pnrsons -and creativity. Novak Jinks these capacities dirnetly and exclusively to capitalism. "Capitalism is a systPm rootml in thn mind, and in this respPrt GOES BEYOND ALL I'HECEDING ECO­NOMIC SYSTEMS" (Novak, "The Catholic Ethic and tlw Spirit of Capitalism." 59; emphasis added). lie tW!m suggnsL-; that thern is an etymological link ht!tw1~nn capitalism and the imprint of God's natural law on tlw human mind. Capitalism "suggests the Latin caput (head), thn human snat of that very cre­ativity. invention, initiative the Pope sees in 'creative subjectivity.'"( 128). 
Th1~ problem is that John Paul never draws upon tlw "imago Dni" doctrine to back a capitalist politi­cal eronomy. To do so would bn to treat Catholic soda! teaching as ideology, not theology. lie makes this dPar in "Sollidtudo Hei Sodalis": "For the C:hurrh doPs not propose economic political systems or programs, nor dons she show preference for one or the otlwr. provided that human dignity is proper­ly respPctNI and promoted." Tlw Church's social doctrine, "bdongs to the field, not of ideology, but of tlwology. and partimlarly moral theology. The "Sollicitudo Hei Socialis," 28: and 
"Centesimus Annus," 19, 28, 29, 36­
41, and 57). Novak, in turn, chides 
those "who too glibly denigrate 'consumerism"' ("The Catholic Ethic," 102). John Paul decries the economic and educational gap between rich and poor (ef. "Redcmptor llominis," 16; "Dives in Misericordia,"11; "Laborem Exercens," 17; "Sollicitudo Rei Socialis," 9-12-16, 28, 42, "Cnntesimus Annus," 4, 5, and 33), Novak dismisses the gap as long as the poor are materially better off: "This 'gap' is not the moral point, but the need for rapid improvement of the lot of the poor." (153) In order to make this claim that the gap is not morally relevant, neo-conservatives have to, for a third time, not takfl the Pope at his word. In the first two cases, they reject John Paul's free market/capitalism dis­tinction and his use of the phrase "Catholic social DOCTHINE." Now. Novak claims, when the Pope refers to the "gap" between rich and poor, he does so only "metaphorically." (152) 
It is evident, then, that in order for the neo-con­servatives to move from dissent to assent to Catholic soda! doctrine, they need to give up more than their rejection of economic rights. They must also dis­mantle their array of arguments that attempts to move directly from fundamental theological and philosophical daims to the political economic sys­tem they call capitalism. Novak does frequently, offer disclaimers that Scripture and Catholic social doctrine back no one system (ef. "The Catholic Ethic," 61, 142-143,209,216,227-228, and 235: "Toward the Future," ix-x). but his SYSTEMATIC argument, outlined above, indicates another mind­set altogether; he does the very thing he disclaims. In my next three columns, I will detail more of that mindset and how it differs from Catholic social doc­trine on the rich-poor gap, consumerism and pri­vate property. 
Todd David Whitmore is an associate professor in the Theology Department. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
· •• I•• 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Campus Art Still Puzzling 
Even if Robert Pazornik's comment..:; in the Insid(J Column of' Nov. 3 reflected his "immaturity" and were based upon an :'ign.orant" attitude t~ward art as Ross C. Barrett III sugg(lsted m h1s letter to the editor the following day, I admire Mt·. Pazornik's courage in raising the question that I too have pon­dered: why is so much unintelligible art displayed on the cam­pus grounds? 
Mr. Barrett critidzed Mr. Pazornlk's view strongly and pre· sumably intended to defend the choice of artwork displayed on campus. I welcome a clear explanation of these puzzling structures, but 1am not sure Mr. Barrett's eritique has · helped. I am not an art expert or historian, nor have I had formal academic training in art. I am only a laymlm who enjoys art. While I will certainly defer to Mr. Barrett on tech· nical questions and finer points of interpretation and theory. 1 a~ .qualified, as any liberally educated person should be, to cntlque more general views on art. Three points especially caught my attention. 
First, Mr. Barrett says, ''I like the fact that art is not instant· ly understandable." I gather he means that good art is a puz· zle that challenges the viewer. While thlo; may bo true, I do not understand how it can be a general claim regarding the ultimate aim of the artist. Mr. Barrett seems to have confused ineffability with unintelligibility. Whih~ a great piece of art may not be expressible in words, it ought to communicate . ~learly, forcefully. and even immediately what cannot be. said mwords. Shakespeare can communicate more in a singlo couplet than I can in an essay. Ivan Mestrovlc's Pietu in the Basilica says more about human and divine love than any the­ologian could hope to say. IfMr. Barrett means that art should hold more in it than I can over understand fully, then 1 agree. Still, the uneducated layman ought to understand a piece of art even ifhe lacks the intellectual tools to analyze it in ?e.tail. Art should appeal to those things. whether national, rehgtous, cultural, etc., which make us human and eitizens of our community. If Mr. Barrett thinks that art ought to be hid­den from th_e many and decipherable only to the specin.Jly­educate~ ~hte, then art l'> a kind ofgnosticism granting access to the pnvileged few who hold the tools to discover its secret meaning. 
I do not mean by this to exclude all such art: the connols­
. seur can appreciate many works that I cannot. The connois­seur is well versed in his field and knows what cues to look for in highly technical and abstract art. This Is not a ren...:;on to deprive me of the simp~or, more accessible, and perhaps more na'ive pieces of art. Second, Mr. Barrett criticizes Mr. Pazornik's view that art should be representational. He quotes art critic and historian 
J.J. Pollitt on this point: "[such a view of art] is characterized by ideas about art which are more characteristic of the lay· man t~an ofeither the practicing artist or the experienced connmsseur ... The most abiding ideas of this popular criti­cism are an unquestioning acceptance of naturalism as the goal of art-i.e., the purpose of art is to imitate the external world and the best work of art i'l that which imitates it most convincingly." I agree that art should not seek to exactly rep­resent its subject. But exact representation is not the same a..'l imitation. Icons clearly represent parti<:ular persons. but iconographers do not seek to represent the subject exaetly as it appears. Those who study icons tell us they are not intend­ed to look just like people, but express both the physkal and spiritual aspects of a divinely graced person. Likewise, the civic and religious art of most ·ancient cultures is far from "naturalistic." J.J. Pollitt may be right to criticize "naturtllis­tic" art, but he is wrong to criticize the uneducated layman. My own suspicion is that when Mr. Pazornik and 1wish for imitation in art, we do not wish for exact repr<~sentation. but rather for imitation of both the material and lmmatfll'ial aspects of a subject. If today's artists are unable to do what our ancestors did, then they are poor artists. If'today's soeiety and artists do not even see as mu(~h in reality as our ancestors did, then we live in an impoverished, society. 
Finally, Mr. Barrett thinks that we have "progressed as a society in our tmderstanding of art since th~l cla..<>sical times, but obviously some of us still haven't." I am guessing that Mr. Barrett thinks that in the history of art (as well as of thought) there has always been a "forward" progression. I hope that Mr. Barrett is aware that artists are not only influenced by p~st, but also by the prevailing philosophic, religious and civic milieu ofthe current culture. Claude Monet did not only pick up whe:e his predecessors left ofl', but by seoking to paint only the subJect as seen {i.e. only the impression of the light reach­ing his eyes) he was well in tune with one of the strong philo· so~hic c_urrents of his day (phenomenalism). Contemporary arttsfs nghtly learn from past art. Yet, their culture also influ­ences them. "Modern" art is not objectionable if it means building on pa..<>t art. But might there b(~ something objeetlon­able in "Modern" art if it is an expression of a modern culture that has cynically abandoned all hope of meaning or purpose in life? 
Stephen Nazaran Groduare Student, History and Philosophy ofScience NoVC"rn!xr 5, 1998 
-·-. ............ •·
·~·• 
-
~--­

O
THE d b
pagel2----------------BSERVER ----------Fri ay,Novem er6,1998 
Irish 
THE FACTS ABOUT BC 
lAocation: (:hestnut Hills, N1J\ Fotu1rled: 1863 ·En rollr11ent.: 8,921 Presiclent: Rev. \\Tilliarn P. l.~eahv, S.J. 
/ . 
i\thletic Director: c;ene DeFilippo Conference: Big ·East Nick11ame: :Eagles 
(.__ 
(:()}ors: ivlaroon ancl Gold Stacliltn1: Al11rnn.i Stacliun1 
For Boston.: For Boston, for Boston, We sing ottr pro·ud refrain! For Boston, for Boston., 'Tis Wisdom's earthly fane. For h.ere all are one And tl1eir hearts are true, And tl1e towers on th,e Heights Reach out to Heav'ns own blue For Boston, for Boston, 1~ill the echoes ring clgain! 
For Boston, for Boston, Thy glory is our own! For Boston, for Boston, 
'Tis here that Truth is know11. And ever with the Right Shall thy heirs befound, Till time shall be 110 more And thy work is crown'd. For Boston., for Boston, For Thee and Thine alo'ne. 

THE MATCH 
ia..vs. 
UP 
I!; INTHE PAST 
Series Record: 
Notre Dame leads 7-2 
Games at Boston College 
Notre Dame leads 2-1 
Games at Notre Dame: 
Notre Dame leads 4-1 
Last Boston College win: 
1994 (30-11 at Boston College) 
Last Notre Dame win: 
1997 (52-20 at Notre Dame) 
This year marks the tenth meeting between Boston College and Notre Dame, and the seventh consecutive match-up. 

Famous BC Alumni 
Cht"is O,Donnell '92 film a.etor 

Timothy St11-ck c78 television ~tctor 
ThomasJl.Ryan'63 jlf'elidettt, American Stock E~ecbange 
·fff~ 
W. Hef'hef"t Scannell III '79 p,.esident, Nickelodeon 
Patrick T. Stokes '64 ..p1*esidettt, Annheusef"·Buscb Co. 
Ellen Carl '90 prtulueef', CNN Headline News 
------., 
D
w E 
ceneN 
Friday, November 6, 1998 ------------------OTHE page 13
BSERVER 
Thinking of taking a drive out East? 1. Go North on US-33 to 1-80 East. 2.2 mi. OE=:::r,:;~'300m 2. Go East on 1-80 East to Ohio 79 mi.11300km 3. Go East on 1-80 East to Pennsylvania 242 mi. 4. Go East on 1-80 East to New Jersey :H4mi.rJismarck 8Quebec 5. Go East on 1-80 East to 1-287 43 mi. Ottawb @'Ao ntreal 6. Go Northeast on 1-287 to New York 22 mi.(jt Paul 7. Go East on 1-287 to Tappan Zee Bridge 14 mi. cfierre cfugusta 8. Go East on Tappan Zee Bridge to 1-87 South 4 mi.Toronfl®Madiso~ 9. Go South to 1-87 to 1-287 (Exit 8) 1.5 mi. Alban'Q flilston 10. Go East on 1-287 to 1-684 (Exit 9A) 6 mi. (9oi~ 11. Go North on I-684 tp 1-84 East (Exit 9El 24 mi.Lincol't) ~e~rk 12. Go East on 1-84 to Connecticut 3 mi.Columbut; 13. Go East on 1-84 to Masachusetts 94 mi. 8Baltirrore 14. Go East on 1-84 to 1-90 East 9mi.)!fferson Ci~ Charlestoro 15. Go East on 1-90 to Exit 17 (jichrrond 16. Take the first right onto Center St. 17. Take Center St. to left on Commonwealth Ave.Nashvill~ Ralelgb~ 18. Chestnut campus is one mile to the rightMemphl~ w Total miles: 930 miles 1QQ8 GeoS~t.l'lli Gbb411 Corp.; 0 1gga AND Mapping B.V. SHERATON Stn:RATON TARA MARRIOT HOLIDA\']NN J uo { ..\RU J' :O,TKEET ~~20 WASIHNGTO)\:" ST. 2~H5 COMMONWEALTH A\'E. 1200 Bf:ACON ST. :\ U.IIIHM, '\1.\ U2 I 94 NEWTOf'i, MJ\ 02 ISH NEWTON. MA 02166 RROOKl.INE, MA 02146 7':1' +#tlllO 6 l 7-909-~\0 I 0 6 J 7-!)69-J 000 617· 277-I :lOO  
•.  

-
I Friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 I 
Tuesday, so I think it was
• PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
important that we scored
W.Soccer 
some goals and got the chance to rest some people
Co0101ittee questions ineligibility continued from page 1 
for the weekend," Petrucelli 
U-Wire 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Many coaches and adminis­trators adamantly support the seemingly radical proposal, while most players see it as a sweeping generalization far too extreme to be put into practice. 
Late last June. Big Ten Commissioner Jim Delany, in hopes of resolving some of col­lege basketball's innate con­cerns, presented his solutions to the sport's major problems of commercialization, gambling and low graduation numbers, which have aided in an increase in attrition rates. 
Delany's multifaceted plan includes major changes in recruiting, cutbacks in the mar­
"· keting of non-school based youth camps and summer com­petitions, and an increase in scholarships. But the single element of Delany's plan that seems to be receiving the most attention is that of freshmen eligibility. Why? Because Delany wants to eliminate it. The idea is not a new one. While freshmen ineligibility has been questioned in college bas­ketball for many years, it also has been a prevalent issue in college football. As the 27-member NCAA reform committee meets to examine the state of college basketball and seriously consid­ers Delany's plan, many coach­es in basketball are giving him their support. "If all freshmen were ineligi­ble, they would be better pre­pared to graduate," Purdue coach Gene Keady said. "Freshmen need to sit out a year for maturation purposes." But while Delany's plan 
would allow players to compete for the four following years, other changes would be need­ed, such as a rise in scholar­ships. Delany's answer would be to increase the present num­ber of 13 scholarships to 15, to compensate for the players on the bench. 
And this format does not just· apply to freshmen. Delany also would mandate that junior col­lege transfers be forced to sit their first year of Div. I play. 
"I don't think it's necessary," said Michigan State's Mateen Cleaves, the preseason pick for conference Player of the Year who started 29 games as a freshman. "It's tough on some guys. Basketball and sports are probably the reason some of the people are in college." 
And that's where Delany wants them to stay. While echo­ing the thoughts of other coach­es around the league, Delany added he does not think fresh­men ineligibility would increase the number of players jumping from high school to the NBA. He believes nothing will stop those players from bypassing college if they have the talent to secure a lucrative NBA con­tract. 
But Delany would like to see the NBA and its players union adopt draft rules similar to those of Major League Baseball and the NFL. NFL teams are not allowed to draft a college player until after that player com­pletes at least three academic years in college. 
In other words, sophomore 
linebacker LaVar Arrington 
isn't going anywhere after this 
season. 
While that rule keeps premier 
players on the collegiate grid­
iron, some football coaches, 
including Penn State's Joe 
Paterno, would like to see simi­lar proposals presented for col­lege basketball reach the foot­ball field. 
"I would love for freshmen to be ineligible," Paterno said. "I think anything we can do to keep the freshmen out of the spotlight until they get into col­lege, get accustomed, get to be students, get to know some peo­ple who are not trying to get close to them because this is so­and-so who plays, and I want to be around him kind of thing. 
"I would be all for making freshmen ineligible." 
Paterno added that similar measures proposed in Delany's plan would be necessary, such as an increase in scholarships from the present NCAA limit of 
85. That number was set after some schools specified the number of football scholar­ships, while others hadn't. 
With the 85-scholarship restriction, an increasing num­ber of football coaches are forced to play true freshmen to fill their squads. 
Again, scholarship expansion would allow coaches to work with a set number of players, while the newcomers would be kept out of the limelight to con­centrate on adjusting to college life both on and off the field. 
"Being away from home was tough for me," Arrington said. "It traumatized me a little bit and affected the way I played sometimes." 
To aid that transition, Paterno's freshmen players are required to attend at least 10 study hours a week, as are Penn State basketball coach Jerry Dunn's players. But Paterno protects his freshmen with a long-standing policy that does not allow them to speak with the media. 
said.
goals against to win." 
Notre Dame has completelyThe Irish defense, however, 
dominated its opponents allis just as sound. Goalkeeper season long. The Irish haveLaKeysia Beene and the 
outscored their opponents
defense have a goals against 87-12, hold a 570-120 advan­average of just .60 and have tage in shots, and have overrecorded 13 shutouts on the 100 assists, while their oppo­season, including Tuesday's 
nents have just nine. Notre
blanking of West Virginia. 
Dame also has over four
"We've been messing 
times as many corner kicks.
around with our defense for 
Notre Dame andthe last three weeks and I Connecticut are clearly thethink we've finally got it 
top two teams in the Big Eastright," Petrucelli said. "We're 
and have distanced them­
playing well back there." 
selves from the other teamsSyracuse enters the game in the conference. A rematch
fresh off Wednesday's 2-0 
of the last three finalsvictory over sixth-seeded 
appears to loom in the not­Pittsburgh. 
so-distant future. The two
Fatigue could be a factor NCAA contenders played to a
for both teams, as Notre 
1-1 tie in a game played on
Dame and Syracuse each 
Oct. 16 at Morrone Stadium. 
played a rare midweek game. 
To get to Connecticut, how­The Irish, however, have had ever, the Irish will first look 
a chance to rest many of 
to knock off Syracuse for thetheir players due to the large second time this season and
margin of victory in their 
make their way to their
recent games. 
fourth-consecutive champi­"We played Friday. we 
onship game.
played Sunday. we played 
• lOUISIANA STATE UNiVERSITY 
QB will dedicate game to his deceased father 
U-Wire home game." 
Tyler's father, John Aguillard, 
BATON ROUGE, La. passed away last April after a 
When he thinks about this bout with liver cancer. The LSU Saturday's game against QB was gone from spring prac­Alabama, LSU quarterback Herb tices for two weeks, but eventu­Tyler has just one complaint, and ally returned and is now having it isn't about his team. a career year. 
"Only thing about it, I just wish Heading into Saturday's game, my daddy could have been here," Tyler has scored 14 touchdowns he said. "It's going to probably while completing 96-of-159 pass­be a little bit emotional for­es for 1 ,420 yards. Already, this myself, cause that's all he talked puts him 161 yards shy of the about was being out on the field 1,581 he finished with last sea­with me and my mom at my last son. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE C.OPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am -Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies, we're open! 
Early Spring Break Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!springbreaktravel.com 1 ·800-678-6386 
HEY PARENTS! Our B&B has rooms avlb. for LSU & other ND/SMC special events. 
1.5 mi from campus. Great rates! Hurry, space going fast! 277-2388 
Four Flags Antique Mall Holiday Open House Nov. 14th & 15th Prizes Refreshments Special Sales 218 S. 2nd St. Downtown Niles Ml 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: GOLD RING BETWEEN SIEGFRIED AND BOND HALL BEFORE BREAK. MICHAEL @ 4­4862 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun"Nassau• Jamaica"Mazatla n• Acapulco"Bahamas Cruise"Fiorida"South Padre Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full­time staff jobs. Lowest price Guaranteed. Call now for details! www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs. Free Parties.America's best prices & packages. Campus sales reps wanted Earn free trips + cash 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 
Driver Needed From ND to anywhere in Oregon/Washington after finals. Snow tires and 4-wheel drive. $200 plus gas Insurance required Shawn at 271-8250 
"ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES TO SOUTH PADRE (FREE MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­WEST,PANAMA CITY.REPS NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE,EARN CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR 6+. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 800-838-8203. 
SPRINGBREAK Florida,Texas,Cancun,Mexico,Jam aica,etc. Browse www.icpt.com and call 800-327-6013.Best hotels,pprices and parties.Reps,organizations, and promoters wanted. Inter­Campus Programs 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­Workers earn up to $2000+/month (w/tips & benefits). World Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000-$7000/summer.Ask us how! 517-336-4235 Ext.C55841 
WANTED: 
OFFICIALS FOR INTERHALL BASKETBALL. IF INTERESTED CONTACT 
DeMOND THOMAS AT 631-3536 OR REC SPORTS. 
Holiday Banquet servers needed please apply in person. 222 S. Michigan street. 234-5200 
"Interested in Making Money•• Large Physical Therapy & Sports Rehab Center looking for students to make Follow-up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and some coputer entry may be required. Flexible hours. ••call Gerard or Doug Now!"" 
233-5754 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road. Exit #107 1-800-418-9487 
1 ,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6551 
Roomate Needed,College Park, 
Second Semester 
Call243-1115 
4,5,or 6 in your group? I have the houses for you-call Greg 233-9947 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM 232-2595 
""Looking for a place off-cam­pus?"" Nice efficiency apartment, 375/month. utilities included, close to campus call NOW 283-0406 
FOR SALE 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 
FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! Sed box set. not available in 
U.S. call pete at 251-0178. 
1 BLK. So. of N.D. ALL BRICK RANCH 728 PEASHWAY 3 BED ROOMS-2 FULL BATHS 2 FIREPLACES-2 CAR GARAGE FINISHED BASEMENT PHONE 272-2252 
FOR SALE 2ND vs NAVY Tickets "CHEAP• call 634-2851 
FOR SALE! NEW NIKE AIR MAX RUN SHOES.6&1/2. $115 value. NOW ONLY $60 or best offer. CALL 273-6029. 
TICKETS 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX. 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by 11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 x47091v msg 
Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048 
Parents coming to town and I need 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4-4896. 
NEED 4 LSU GA TIX. CALL 257-1141. 
Need LSU Tickets. call x4879 
ND vs. Navy Football Ticketl! 
(219)634-1439 
MUST SELL!! 
A FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 
I.U. vs ND LOWER ARENA BASKETBALL. 2771659 
PERSONAL 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring 
Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Check out our Hot Jamaica Packages for the Class of '99!Stop in at Anthony Travel in the LaFortune Student Center and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. Get your deposit in by Dec.18 and save. Don't take a chance with an unknown agency or some 1-800 number.Limited space available,so book now! 
Anthony Travel, Inc. 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-7080 
BRENT MOBERG WILL BE IN 
KEENAN THIS WEEKEND WITH 
HIS FAMILY. 
KEEP PRAYING FOR HIM. 
diane-we are going to kick som gre butt! here's to roommate bond­ing! 
i didn't need to go to boston any­way, right? 
i lived on beacon street-i know the town. 
south bend is MUCH more excit­ing! 
i'm sure mark agrees. 
i'm coming, keough boys! watch out! 
I love Accounting 231-06!! It makes M/W/F worthwhile. 
My most sincere congrats to the Morrissey baseball team for win­ning the lnterhall Championship. You are all fabulous, even if this 
paper didn't cover the event. 
You can't have all vanilla in your life. Sometimes, a girl just needs a little chocolate. 
Can I get a witness? Oh wait, S.R., my partner in crime isn't here tonight. 
Hi muffin. Love, Iii' bunny. 
Isn't this classified better than the 
other ones? 
But don't worry, I won't use your 
real name in conjunction with the 
word "muffin." 
Kevin, MB & Co.: If I get a flat tire, 
it's coming out of your allowance. 
Attention entire news department: 
You know the time. You know the place. See you there. 
it is FUN when the SPORTS TEM­PLATE is CORRUPT at$ AM!!!!!!!!!!!!! nd you have to REDO the ENTIRE#%?!!!!" SECTION!!!! 
goodbye. 
• MEN'S INTERHAll FOOTBAll • UNIVERTY OF NORTH CAROLINA 
The Observer· SPORTS Friday, November 6, 1998 
entire year. The '98 version of Keenan, however, has squeezed out tight victories, and will need to eontinue to do this if they hope to U-Wire thn entire gamo. At 7 feet, his advanec. presence will be eritical on the 
"We've used big plays to win CHAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. inside. games this year," Min said. At this time last year, things After returning from a year on· 
Defense has been the team looked much better for North during whieh he served in the backbone for the year. led by Carolina basketball. Everyone French army, Evtimov also will middle backer Joe Klopp. picked the Tar Heels to be be an inside player. At 6-foot-1 0, They hope that its sueccss among the best in thn nation, he will be a factor in stnmgthnn­continues. and the squad that ended up in ing the Tar Heels' fronteourt. 
The theme of humility the Final Four did not disap­After amassing one of the bet­remains the same inside the point. Fast-forward a year: ter recruiting c.lassns in the 
doors of Zahm. The Habid Things are deeidely dill'erent. nation, North Carolina has a Bats, eoming off their thrilling Only three Heels -point eapable group of neweomers to victory over the Ramblers of guard Ed Cota, forward hdp eon tribute. IIigh sehool All­Siegfried in the quarterfinals, Ademola Okulaja and Americans Jason Capel, Honald arc excited to play in the forward/center Brendan Curry and Kris Lang lead the semis. Haywood -logged signifieant !'our-man freshman dass. 
"Kep,nan is a very sound playing time on last year's 34-4 Coming from a basketball fam­football team, on both sides of squad, and the loss of All­ily -Capel's father is the Old the ball. We hope to stay Americans Antawn Jamison and Dominion basketball eoaeh and with them during the game Vince Carter leaves a large void his older brother Jell' played for and make something happen for the program to fill. Duke -Capel should have an at the end," said starting "Last year, we had six play­easy transition to tho eollcgiato 
quarterback Matt ers," Tar Heel Coach Bill ranks. Bohnenkamp. "We're excited Guthridge said. "This year. Capel "knows everything to have a chance to play for a everything's up in the air." already," Okulaja said. "lie spot in the stadium." At this point, the only players seems very comfortable on the 
No one on the Zahm squad that are definite starters for court, and that's very unusual has ever had a taste of the Guthridge arc returning starting for a freshman." green grass inside the stadi­point guard Ed Cota and for­But the prospects for the um. ward Ademola Okulaja. Heels' most well-known recruit The last time the Rabid Bats "Cota and Okulaja are going to are still up in the air. 
wcrn there was 1992, when average more points for us this "To bn honest. I don't know they took home the champi­year," he said. anything more about Honald onship. Last year, Cota and Okulaja Curry than I did when we While humility fills both scored a total of 206 baskets, reeruited him," Guthridge said. 
dorms at this point, when the more than 100 less than "All I can say is that he was a two squads take the field on Jamison alone. Both need to step real good pmspect." Sunday, all friendliness will up significantly to fill in the void Curry is now sharing time with be forgotten, and the rivalry left by Jamison and Carter. senior Oscar Davenport as the will be remembered. With the exception of Brendan Tar Heels' quarterback and will 
Haywood, who served as the not be praetieing with the bas­
Look for in-depth 
second man off the beneh for ketball team until thn football Carolina, the remaining Tar season ends. The llccls play
coverage of the 
Heel returnees lack substantial their final regular snason foot­game experiHnce. Who plays will ball game Nov. 2H against N.C.
football team~s 
depend upon who steps up early State. 
game against 
on in the season. "Honald's big and strong and "There arc a lot of people who we're happy he's doing well for
Boston College in 
are going to be contenders to the football team," Guthridge play a lot of minutes on this said. "We'll just be glad when he 
Monday's paper. 
team. starting with Vasco gets out for basketball." Evtimov, Max Owens and With so much uncertainty at Brendan Haywood," Okulaja this point, there seems less to b!~ said. confident about than last year. 
Last year, Haywood only saw But Okulaja said he disagrnes. playing time when the starters "I'm still very confident," he needed breaks or got into foul said. "We have a young team trouble. This year, Haywood will and it's going to be a learning be expected to last throughout experienec." 
ALEX KOTLOWITZ 
•••~ •••JTHERE ARE No CHILDREN HERE 
Speaking: 
November 6th 1Friday) 
Washington Hall 
C: l H r l • ' o • 
7:30PM SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
Breaking The Silence: Growing Up in Today's Inner City 
THE OTHER SIDE 
By WES JACOBS 
Sports Writrr 
When two bitter rivals meet, throw all records out the door. Hatlwr than talent win­ning the game. grit and guts are going to put the winning team over the top. 
This will bn tlw ease whnn Zahm Hall and Kennan llall nwet in tlw interhall playoffs this Sunday for a ehanee to play in the stadium. 
Despite not IIHH~ting in this year's n~gular season, the two neighbors are always at tlwir 
best when they come to do battle. Expect fireworks this weekend. 
"Zahm is a very intense team, so hopefully we can come out and make it a game," said team captain Dong Mi11. "Wn haven't been as dominating a team as last year." 
Min couldn't have put it bet­ter. Close games have been thn norm for thn Keenan squad this year. In the '97 playoiTs, they cnternd as the clear-cut favorite, having pitched a shutout for the 
$J BASKETBALL 
1... "!1 

Attention Students: 
Get your basketball season tickets and ND vs. IU tickets at the following locations-
Nov. 4-South Dining Hall 
Nov. 5-North Dining Hall 
Nov. 6-South Dining Hall 
(!O:OOam -2:00pm) 
Season Tickets-Only $44 
ND vs. IU-$8 
Must show your student ID. 
Saint 1\llary•s College ~otre I:>a.:rr1.e 
26TH ANNUAL 
L.ONDON SUMMER 
PROGRAM 


......_ 

"i4 Mauleleva llall, Room 347 37 Madeleva llall, Room 152 Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 (219) 284-4529 dstefane[a?.saintma rys.edu tparisi(ii)saintmarys.edu 
Fax: London Summer Prugram (219) 284-4716 
r 
I 
I I I 
' 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 6, 1998 

Advertisers use NFL televised games to target upscale men 
Associated Press 
NFL ratings are near record­low levels. But with the net­works' share of the audience shrinking even faster, profes­sional football remains one of the best bets for advertisers. 
Fox's national coverage of last Sunday's San Francisco­Green Bay was the highest­rated Sunday afternoon game in nearly two years and deliv­ered the largest male audience of the entire television season. 
The 16.7 rating was higher than all but one Monday night game this year and the fourth highest-rated show last week. A ratings point represents 994,000 households. , "The NFL is still one of the premier properties for reach­ing upscale men, who are the target audience for most adver­tisers," said Steve Grubbs, a top commercial time buyer for the ad agency BBDO 
• U.S. HOCKEY 
Worldwide. 
But despite Sunday's stellar rating, Fox is just 1 percent higher than last season's all­time low 10.0. CBS and ABC are als trailing last year's record lows. CBS' 9.1 is 4 per­cent lower than NBC and ABC's 13.6, off 8 percent from 1997. ESPN is 3 percent higher than TNT's rating. 
"We are at Week 9 of an eight-year deal," CBS Sports president Sean McManus said. "Everyone wants to analyze ratings every week. We are exactly where we projected to be." 
But after doubling rights fees last January, the networks' rat­ings are mostly flat. And some see that as a signal of signifi­cant financial losses to come. 
"The ad dollars slated for the NFL weren't up this year, so there was no way to pass those increases on to advertisers," Grubbs said. "That's probably not going to. change. There are more options for advertisers to reach their target audience. More money is shifting to cable." 
But the networks do not appear concerned so far, stick­ing to the contention that they won't lose money in the $17.6 billion, eight-year deal. They stress that prime-time ratings for the four major networks are down more than 10 per­cent and that the NFL delivers residual gains. 
"If prime time was up and football was down, that would be a problem," Fox Bxecutive producer Ed Goren said. "The truth is that football on Sundays is flat or up a little from last year in an environ­ment where prime time is down. That speaks to the strength of major sports pro­gramming, in particular the NFL." 
While Fox increased its pay-
Team earns key win over Kazakstan 
Associated Press 
KLAGENFURT, Austria 
Neal Broten, who played on the "Miracle on Ice" team at the 1980 Olympics, scored two goals and set up another Thursday in leading the United States past Kazakstan 3-0 in a qualifying tournament for hockey's world championships. 
The victory in Pool A kept alive American hopes of remain­ing among hockey's internation­al elite. 
Broten and Michael Hartman accounted for all the U.S. scor­ing and goaltender Parris Duffus recorded a shutout, guiding the Americans to a key win in the qualifying event for next year's championship in Norway. 
The Americans were forced to requalify after a disastrous 1998 world championship in which an NHL-paeked team produced just a single victory and finished 12th out of 16 nations. 
Dangerously close to a return to Pool B for the first time since1983, the United States' 

s4 00 • All Shows Befo.re 6 pm :'J 6. 
• • Students •Semors The Waterboy PG-13 
[11 :30, 12:30, 2:00, 3:00] 4:30, 
5:30,7:10, 7:50, 9:30, 10:10 
The Wizard of Oz G 
[11 :20, 1 :45] 4:15, 6:30, 8:50 
The Siege R 
[11 :35, 1:10, 2:1 0]4:00, 5:00, 
7:00,7:40, 9:45, 10:20 
living Out Loud R 

[11 :45, 2: 15]4:50, 7:20, 10:00 Antt PG (12:20, 2:30]4:40, 6:40, 9:00 
Vampires R 
[11 :50, 2:40]5:05, 7:30, 10:05 
Pleasantville PG-13 
[1 :20], 4:20, 7:15, 9:55 
Bride of Chucky R 
[1:15, 3:20] 5:40,8:10,10:35 Beloved R [1 :00]4:45, 8:15 
Practical Magic PG-13 
[1 :3014:25, 6:45, 9:20 What Dreams May Come R [1 :30]4:10, 6:50, 9:60 
Urban Legend R 
[12:10, 2:45]5:20, 8:00, 10:30 
Rush Hour PG-13 
[11 :40, 2:20] 4:35, 7:25, 9:40 There's Something About Mary R 
slip at last year's worlds came after its embarrassing quarterfi­nal exit at the Winter Games and subsequent room-trashing by players. 
The United States and Kazakhstan must finish either first or second in the four-team A group, which also includes Austria and Estonia. 
But with the NHL, college and minor leagues all in full swing, coach Ben Smith, who led the American women's team to gold at the Nagano Olympics, was forced to patch together a team from NHL old-timers and play­ers competing in European leagues. 
Fifteen of the 23 players com­pete in professional European teams, including 11 from Germany's national Bundesliga. The only NHL player on the team is Hurricanes defenseman Mike Rucinski. 
Broten, 38, retired from the NHL in 1997, while 41-year-old Mark Johnson -another "Miracle on Ice" worker who helped produce a gold medal, 

on All Sizes of Popcorn & Soft Drinks! 
An1z  PG  
[2:30]5:00, 7:00, 9:00  
Vampires  R  
[2:00]4:30, 7:30, 10:00  
Something About Mary  R  
[2:15)4:45, 7:15, 9:45  

·$1 00 All Shows Before 6pm
ONLY • Everyone • Everyday $1.50 All Evening Shows :J b. 
Mulan G 
[1 :50]4:20, 6:45, 8:50 
ParentTrap PG 
[1 :1 0]4:00, 6:50, 9:30 Truman Show PG [2:1 0]4:40, 7:20, 9:50 Ever After PG-13 [1 :40]4:30, 7:10,9:45 The Mask of Zorro PG-13 [2:00]5:00, 8:00 L..eathal Weapon 4 R [1:20]4:10, 7:00,9:40 
Now! Students and Seniors S4.00 Anytime 
at the 16endTown & theatres 
ments by 39 percent, CBS, ABC and ESPN more than doubled the price of the previous pack­age. 
Those networks point to other residual effects for the success of their NFL deals. 
CBS, which slipped to fourth place in attracting male view­ers after losing the NFL four years ago, has seen significant increases this season. It has 8 percent more men watching its Sunday night shows, while NBC has lost 50 percent of its men that night. 
"The NFL has brought tremendous improvement to our prime-time demos," McManus said. "That was a big part of our strategy." 
The bid from Disney-owned ABC and ESPN was a joint deal, 
hoping the cross-promotion from sharing prime-time exclu­sivity would boost ratings. 
That hasn't been entirely true yet, but much of ABC's ratings slip can be attributed to moving the starting time up one hour. That has cut into West Coast viewing, but it has also more than doubled ABC's rating from 8-9 p.m. 
ESPN's 3 percent ris!l stems entirely from not having base­ball competition during September. And if the World Series had gone seven games again this year, ESPN's rating would be lower. 
"They paid $176 million more for the NFL and could barely get a higher rating'" Turner Sports spokesman Greg Hughes said.'"That bodes well for our new football league." 
Turner and NBC, shut out of the current NFL deal, are con­sidering starting a rival football league in 2000. 
ESPN's biggest benefit has been the boost in viewing across the entire network. After its ratings fell 11 percent the first half of the year, ESPN's 24-h<mr ratings are 38 percent higher the last two months. Take away live base­ball and NFL games, and the increase is still more than 10 percent. 
retired nine years ago. 
Joe Mullen, 41, who ended a 17-year NHL career in 1997, also came out of retirement for the tournament. 
One of the few under-30 play­ers on the team is Duffus. He led the United States to a bronze medal at the 1996 worlds in Austria, the nation's first medal in 34 years. 
"This roster represents a blend of talented, veteran play­ers who understand the mission of this team," general manager Art Berglund said. 
"Our goal is to strengthen the United States' position as one of the elite hockey-playing nations in the world by qualifying for the 1999 A Pool world champi­onship." 


• Located 0.2 miles from Notre Dame 
• 
Now leasing two bedroom ·apartments for the '98~'99 school year 

• 
Short term, flexible leases at affordable rates 


Calf us at 272-1441 or stop in at 1801 Irish Way 
lrlrlUSiiC 
Towr~ ~ c.oor~fry SkOf>f>irt!J center-U.S. 20-21'f.2.Sb.SZ'f11 Belle"iJie SkOf>f>in!J center -W. Western A"e. -21'f.U'f.1Cf2'f C.attJf>US S&,o~f>es-Sfafe Roa<12.3-2.f41.2'13.'1'1'1~ 

--------~~-.._--..._.__,_.,w___,w-____,...~~-~-----~~--~-~-------~--~----.--rmo__.._ ~ 
Friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 



November 10-11 
.99 WHOPPER®
I II . 
Sandwich 
ceeL ~·~~C~II KIIIC® lillll!~l 
Obligatory info. on Dave Rudolf you may or may not wish to know: 
Featured on Dr. Demento's radio show 
Appeared on HBO Comedy shorts and numerous cable television shows 
Headlined at comedy clubs, Ravinia, 
Summerfest, Taste of Chicago and 
hundreds of concert venues 
throughout the United States 
Performed at over 2,000 colleges 
12 nominations for NACA College Entertainer of the Year 
Dave Rudolf Appearing Tuesday, November 10 2 shows--9:30p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at Burger King® in LaFortune 

,_ 
I
I 
-
that the owners proposal wirll------------------------­
~---­-----.­-­-~­~ -----~------__.-----~-­......_...-,_­--~-----------~--~----------...--­ 
page 18  The Observer •  SPORTS  Friday, November 6, 1998  

 •WNBA  
Owners, players still 'worlds apart'  Players vote. for NBA  
Associated Press  NEWYOHK  era! agents think the commis­sioner is bluffing and will do a deal at the last possible moment.  as Falk, who represent the high­est-salaried players, with slow­ing the process. Hunter respond­ • •union representation 
Is David Stern bluffing when  whenever that is.  ed by saying Stern was trying to  
he says he'll cancel the season?  Stern and deputy commission­ divide the union. Hunter further  Associated Press  mer.  
Is Billy Hunter being held back  er Russ Granik have refused to  insists that he and union presi­ Many stars, such  as Cynthia  
by David Falk?  give an exact "drop dead" date,  dent Patrick Ewing have been in  NEW YORK  Cooper,  Sheryl  Swoopes.  
What is the final date for sav­ but Granik said recently that it  charge of the negotiations since  Just what NBA needs:  more  Hebecca Lobo and Lisa Leslie,  
ing the 1998-99 season?  would be somewhere in mid­ Day 1.  unionized employees.  signed two-year contracts that  
Those are the big questions in  December.  Falk seems to be upset with  WNBA players voted  over­ are expiring.  
the  NBA  lockout,  the proposals on  whelmingly Thursday to have  WNBA  president  Val  
and  none  of  the  the  table  the  National  Basketball  Ackerman tried to dissuade  
answers was clear  because  the  Players Association represent  players from choosing to  be  
Thursday. Of course,  'WHEN THE OWNERS SHOW SOME WILLINGNESS TO  union  has  them, the  same union negoti­ represented  by  the  men's  
the biggest question -When will it end?  ENGAGE IN COMPROMISE ••• WE'LL BE GLAD TO  offered a mech­anism to limit  ating on the behalf of locked­out NBA players.  union, charging its leadership is divisive and uninterested in  
-was the grandest  RECOMMEND THE DEAL TO OUR PLAYERS.'  high-end  Of the 122 eligible players,  women's issues.  
mystery of all.  salaries.  55 voted in favor of the union  The WNBA can challenge the  
Although there have been no concil­ BILLY HUNTER  Suddenly, Falk elients Allen  and 24 voted against it. according to Dan Silverman,  election and claim the union committed unfair labor prac­ 
iatory signs from  UNION DIRECTOR  Iverson  and  the regional executive director  tices. If not, Silverman said  
either  side,  the  Stephon  of  the  National  Labor  "the results will be final in one  
league expects to  Marbury  will  Relations Board.  week."  
hear from Hunter on Friday. A  So  if  an  agreement  were  not have the opportunity to cash  Most players in the 2-year­ If  the  league  objects,  
negotiating session could be  reached Dec. 20, for example,  in with a $120 million contract  old WNBA.  a  wholly owned  Silverman and his staff would  
scheduled for Monday if the  the season could start Jan. 14.  like Kevin Garnett did. If their  subsidiary of the NBA,  earn  investigate and make a  deci­ 
sides  think  it  will  lead  to  Each team would have only 50  contracts are limited to a maxi­ $25,000-$50,000.  sion. But it didn't sound  as if  
progress.  games left, but an additional six  mum of, say, $60 million, Falk  They  want to  raise their  the league would contest the  
"We're just worlds apart, and  could be squeezed in if the All­ and his clients will have sus­ salaries and extend health  vote.  
NBA players are losing on aver­ Star game were canceled and an  tained a huge loss.  insurance coverage to the off­ "We respect the players'  
age $14 million per game," com­ extra week was added on to the  "Three years ago, we knew the  season as part of a collective  decision,"  Ackerman  said,  
missioner David Stern said.  end of the regular season. That  deal would benefit the high-end  bargaining agreement with the  "and appreciate the efforts of  
"When the owners show some  would  allow for  a  56-game  players at the expense of the  league, which is expanding  the National Labor Relations  
willingness to engage in compro­ schedule in which each team  middle class," Falk said, arguing  from 10 teams to 12 next sum- Board in this process."  
mise  ...  we'll be glad to recom­ played every other team twice.  

mend the deal to our players," Stern has charged agents such hurt nearly everyone. union director Billy Hunter said. 
The sides remain far apart on both the framework for a deal and the percentage of revenue owners will be devoting to salaries. The players, who received 57 percent last season, are asking for 60 percent. The owners, who wanted to pay no mom than 51.8 percent last sea­son, want the percentage scaled back to 50 percent. 
The compromise would seem to be 55 percent, yet Stern prac­tically recoiled in disgust when it was suggested the sides simply meet in the middle. 
Pointing out that the old deal didn't work for the owners at 52 percent. Stern said it will be hard to get him to budge. 
"If the question is whether to close things out the players could squeeze me to pay a little more than 50 percent, first get me to the close-out of the negotia­tions," he said. "But we're nowhere near that." 
Hunter had no answer when asked what was wrong with 55 percent, but he has said in the past that the players shouldn't accept less than what they are currently getting (57 percent), especially in light of the other concessions the union has made (lengthened rookie scale, possi­ble decrease in cap growth, lux­ury tax, escrow tax). 
That leaves the sides appar­ently dug in for the long haul. 
Stern is threatening to cancel the season, but Hunter and sev-

Diamond PriceQuotations 246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diainond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
. :. ;. ...... -------------------·------------------------. 

Irish Connection 
525 N Hill St. 233-8505 Friday, November 6 
*Liquid Lunch 3pm-9pm Complimentary soup and food available BBQ Meatballs, Stuffed Cabbage, Lasagna, Hot Dogs (while supplies last) and other specials to fit your budget. 
*The Hitman (lOpm to Close) DJ Corey "Hitman" Hartman Playing your favorite dance music downstairs in IConn party lounge 
21 and over with proper ID's, uniform security and lighted parking. 
Bands and Guest DJ's playing dates available; call 233-8505 for bookings Don't forget Monday Night Football, Big screen TV, free hot dogs and cigars during game. 
Book your parties at Irish Connection -no charge for student bookings. 

HAIR MODELS NEEDED For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 

Friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Sept. 26 tie against the Red Storm as they develop their
M. Soccer 
game strategy. In a defensively 
set game, St. John's relied on
Nike announces Code of Conduct 
continued from page 24 
the strength of quick breaks to 
the Irish played the Red Storm the goal for its lone score.
U-Wirr criticized the UA's contract for ries to begin work along side to a 1-1 tie earlier this season, Jimmy Buscemi capitalized onits lack of an enforcement the non-governmental organi­
TUCSON, Ariz. method. this matchup at St. .John's will one such play, breaking free
zations on the ground," 
present new problems for from an Irish defense that wasNikn annourH:ed Tuosday that The Apparel Industry Manager said. "It'll ensure 
Bertice!li's team. not deep in its zone, beforeit has modified its Code of Partnership will conduct companies will be living to the 
Conduct to include an indepen­announced and surprise checks Code of Conduet and working In order to advance, the Irish dishing it off to Stefani must defeat a team they have Miglioranzi for the shot that
dent monitoring clause -a of factories, hold confidential standards." 
move supported by President employee interviews and do Members of the partnership never won against in live previ­made it by goalkeeper Greg ous meetings, coming up with Velho.
Clinton. independent audits of' compa­will select a separate group to As part of Clinton's two-year­nies' records. monitor the factories. 
two ties and three losses. Two "We feel confident that we of the losses have come in the know the style of play they're
old Apparel Industry Arne Ekstrom, president of "They will produce reports two meetings between the going to use," said Murphy.
Partnership, elothing and the UA's Students Against together following the Code of schools in Jamaica, NY, the "They're the kind of team that's
footwear companies and Sweatshops chapter, said Conduct," Manager said. The 
home field of St. John's. going to dump a lot of balls into human rights, labor and reli­although the agreement is still reports will be released annual­
The biggest adjustment the our box and try to keep us
gious groups havn agreed to weak, the modifications are a ly. 
Irish will have to make isn't pressed on our defensive end." 
"crnatn a nnw non-pro!it associ­step in the right direction. The group and auditing firms ation to ovnrsen monitoring of "Personally, I think the inde­are then responsible for evalu­with their game play, but with Despite the pressure and St. the field that the game is being John's 29-20 advantage in
thn c:odn and company compli­pendent monitoring is not well­ating wages -making sure 
ance." Otlwr program partici­played on. Notre Dame will play shots, Velho was brilliant in
ironed out," said Ekstrom, a laborers are paid for overtime 
pants indudn Hnebok, L.L. Bean its first game this season, and goal, tying his career-best 12
neuroscience graduate student. work, Manager said. 
the first since last year's 1-0 saves in the game. But Velhoand Liz Claiborne. "There nE)eds to be improve­Universities across the nation loss at St. John's, on an isn't the only key for Irish victo­"Thny havn f'inally agreed ment on the issue of living have been working to produce 
Astroturf field. ry on Saturday.
upon sonwthing nveryone ean 
wages, organized unions and a Code of Conduct in associa­
"Its definitely an advantage On the other end of the field, ­rally bnhind to 1msun~ worknrs how frequently they (the facto­tion with the Collegiatehning protnetnd," Nike 
for St. John's to be playing on the Irish plan to break theries) are checked." Licensing Co., which is com­the Astroturf. They play on it all Storm's defensive mind set sospoknsman Vada Managnr said. Nike's modified code does not prised of 14 universities. 
year," commented co-captain that Notre Dame can fuel its
Thn Univnrsity of Arizona's contain speei!ie information on Mike Low, director of the Phil Murphy. "The only time attack. Keeping the ball away
$7 million contract with Nike, the number of times factories Collegiate Licensing Co. and signod in August, calls for a we've played on it is this week from Murphy and the rest of the
will be inspectnd. Manager said UA's trademark licensing, said 
in practice." defense and instead in the mid­"mutually agrood upon" moni­the group will inspeet "a per­yesterday that he had not read Even practicing on turf all field will play into the strengthtor, which would bn used if the eentage" of factories, but would the document and would not week in the Loftus Sports of the Irish. Control and move­UA wnrn to hnar of labor abus­not diselose how many. elaborate on its impact on the Complex can't replace the expe­ment at the midfield will give
ns OVOrSIH\S. "Companies like ours will collegiate Code of Conduct. 
rience of a whole season. In the front line their chance to
Studnnts Against Swnatshops, submit location of factories. We "I hope it is an excellent 
addition, the team has prac­crack the game open.
a human rights aetivist group, will pick a pereentage of facto-remediation plan," Low said. 
ticed with a little less intensity, "During the [first game not wanting any injuries on the against St. John's], there was a turf just days before their most span of about 20 minutes in the important game of the season. !irst half where we played real 
"You really can't tell till you well," explained co-captain get out there," explained coach Matt .Johnson on the play that Berticelli. "I don't know if it the Irish hope will spell success really helps at all, but it does this weekend. "What we did help just to get acclimated to was we pressured them high, the turf." about 25 yards outside their 
Ready or not, the Irish have own box. What they like to do is kept their focus on the game, bring the ball to the half line not the field it will be played on. and then just dump it inside the The team will benefit from the 
box." 
•
• 

~ NOTRE DAME (Y)
W APARTMENTS YtJ Now leasing for second semester! 
•Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 
..
•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•Pre-Leasing 
for Fall of '99 

•
October-May Lease or 1Year Lease 


with a"free" month's rent For tin1e and loeation of meeting, eall: 1-8041 
•Only afew left! NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
66The Best Vahne nn OU-Callllllptlls IHlousling11 
-
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
Managed By Real Estate Management Corportation 
234-9923
AII Meetings are private and confidentia I. 


Cl C\ s s 0 1 999
f 
Ga...e Wat«:L at BW3's starts at 12:oo p.m. F ree Food •, 
--~------------~------------------------------~ ----~----~------------------­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, November 6, 1998 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Phillies place Dykstra on voluntary retired list 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Lenny Dykstra, the fidgety, fiery leadoff hitter known as "Nails." retired on Thursday after failing to come back from a debilitating back condition. 
Dykstra, 35, asked the Philadelphia Phillies to place him on the voluntary retired list rather than become a free agent on the last day for players to file. 
"It was a long shot that he'd be able to come back," Phillies 
Dykstra was only 2-for-21 last spring after missing 1 1/2 sea­sons with spinal stenosis, a con­genital condition that narrows the opening where nerves go through the spinal canal. He put his comeback on hold when doc­tors warned him about the health risks, and announced in June that he would never play again. 
He did not want to discuss his official retirement, Shenk said. 
"It came to the point where his contract was up, and he had to either file for free agency or retire," Shenk said. 
By waiting until after the sea­son, Dykstra kept his $5.5 million salary. The Phillies will recoup all but $900,000 of through an insurance policy. 
"I think all the years of grind­ing it out and just playing the game the way it's supposed to be played has taken its toll," Dykstra said in June. 
"I probably could have faked them out this year and suffered and been a part-time player, a pinch hitter," he said. "That's not how I want people to remember Lenny Dykstra." 
Anyone who ever watched him play in the mid-1980s and earl}' '90s will never forget him. A scrappy, left-handed hitting speedster with a knack for rat­tling pitchers, Dykstra was a kej' component of the Mets' 1986 World Series championship team. 
He was traded to the Phillies with pitchers Roger McDowell and Tom Edens for Juan Samuel in 1989-a deal still lamented in New York. Dykstra led them to the Series in 1993, which they lost to Toronto on Joe Carter's unforgettable Game 6 homer ofl' Mitch Williams. 
The 41st Annual 
EBONY FASHION 
FAI R Presents 
~ fift(}hioJM top~ ~A 
Sponsored by 
General Admission $23.00 High School & Full-Time 
College Students With I.D. 
$15.00 The Night of the Show: $25.00 & $17.00 
Tickets Available At: O'Laughlin Box Office Sherman's-L.W.W. Main Street Fashions, Niles, MI 
W.I.M. Scholarship 
(Includes I yr. subscription to EBONY or 6-month subscription to jET) 
spokesman Larry Shenk said. "He tried. He gave it his best shot, and at least he can go away saying he gave it a shot and it didn't work." 
-



~ {jel!iJ.el"tirj fi_# Hzza/ 
/Kick off tlfr ND Football \ ~ Pajfa Predicts ~ NOTRE DAME 35 

~ JIIIIIJif"'" boston college 14 
We wish Coach Davie, His Staff, and the Team success in 
~L®e~ their 1~ ~~paign! ~Ue~ U&lilla'SJ(/~ (].!]!]..I] I]!]!] Dine-In a-le-at ND Store (J./}1] ..(7(1.7](].(1827 , Bend Ave.) and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 

friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
4:29 in the middle of the third, first year at the helm, the 
• NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY
with Brian Gionta notching the Huskies managed only eight
Hockey 
game winner with just over wins. Last season, however, 11ve minutes to go. the school posted its first 20­
continued from page 24 
Practicality of new
Of concern right now for the win season in a decade before Irish is the performance of being upset in the 11rst round
top defonsive prospects, 
already drafted by the New their power play unit, which of the Hockey East York Hangers. Senior defense­notched 11 goals in the team's Tournament. 
NCAA rule questioned man and team eaptain first four conference games As for their roster as a Brendan Buckley brings lead­before going scoreless in the whole, there arc some obvious 
U-Wire rently have part-time jobs.
ership and a strong physical last two. Hopefully, having last holes in experience and size. "Time constraints are justweekend off will help power With Notre Dame's talent
presenee to the ice every Evanston, Ill. too restricting," said Alan night. play point man Benoit Cotnoir spread over four capable scor­After many years of heated Kaplan. a Weinberg freshman 
return to form by letting him ing lines, depth might be the
Most importantly for the debate about the issue, the and offensive lineman for the
factor that best favors the
Eaglos, goaltender Scott recover fully from an early­National Collegiate Athletic NU football team. 
season injury. Irish in this matchup.
Clernnwnsen has plenty of big Association enacted a new "There are certain kids that ganw experience. even though Although Boston College lost Also, even though the piece of legislation last spring are capable of holding a part­
he is just a sophomore. only three players from last Huskies have six players listed 
that permits student-athletes time job, but I think it wouldyear's team. one of the three at 6'2" or taller, no one on
Clnmnwnson was tho team's to work part-time jobs during effect their schoolwork and 
was Marty Heasoner, who led their roster weighs in at over
starting goaltender during the school year. The new pro­their performance," men's 
tlwir Cinderella run through the team and the nation in 205 pounds, indicating a lack gram allows student-athletes swimming Coach Bob Groseth thn NCAA l'ournament last scoring. After Reasoner was of bulk at forward and at 
to work a certain amount of said. "Is it good for the NCAA March. which ended with a somehow left out of the run­defense. hours per week to have this 
hnartbreaking :{-2 loss in ning for the 1998 Hobey Baker The experience factor will and to earn up rule'? Myovertime to Miehigan in the ;\ward, he signed an NIIL con­certainly come into play in to a predeter­personal championship game. tract to play with the St. Louis goal Saturday night. 
mined amount 'ITHINK IT WOULD BE opinion is 
Pnrhaps the Conte Forum is Blues this season. Sophomore Dan Calore is the of money. 
VERY HARD TO BALANCE
the perfect plaee for tho Irish On Saturday. the Irish head team's only returning goal­Although this There arc to exaet somo rnvonge against to nearby Matthews ;\rena to tender, and he only logged program was ACADEMICS, ATHLETICS AND many who 
BC. Notre Dame already has take on the Northeastern about two percent of the min­
seen by its sup­feel th'!t
A JOB, BECAUSE IT'S HARD 
an impressive 3-1 record on Huskies, which sport a 2-1 utes in goal last season. porters as the working, ­tlw road this season, following season record. Unlike BC, the Last year's game between first step to TO BALANCE JUST ACADE-keeping up
lluskies have quite a young Notre Dame and Northeastern
up on last year's impressive fairness for stu-MICS AND ATHLETICS.' with stud­porformanees away from the team, one with only two was played over Christmas dent-athletes, 1es, and 
.Ioyce Center. seniors but 21 freshmen and break, at the Mariucci Classic the practicality 
performing
l.ast season's meeting with sophomores, having lost six in Minnesota. Just like in their of NCAA com-SARA JUREK athleticallylettermen from last year's game against BC earlier in the
Boston College took place in petitors holding NU BASKETBALL POINT GUARD is not a 
the .Ioyce Center. After spot­team that finished fourth in its season, the Irish sprinted out down jobs and realistic 
ting the Irish a 2-0 lead mid­conference. to a 2-0 lead, this time in the being student-
option for way through the third period, No one knows quite what to second period. athletes is now in question. most student-athletes. expect of Bruce Crowder's With a one-goal advantage
the Eaglos exploded for three "1 think it would be pretty "I think it would be very hard 
Huskies this season. in the third period, Notre
unanswernd goals in a span of hard to have an in-season job to balance academies, athletics 
Two years ago, in Crowder's Dame allowed the Huskies 
and compete at the level we and a job, because it's hard tothree goals in 11ve minutes en compete at in the Big Ten, aca­balance just academics and route to a 4-2 defeat. 
demically and athletically." athletics," said Sara Jurek, a
The star of the game for 
said Brad Hurlbut, Weinberg freshman and pointNortheastern was its now­
Northwestern's assistant direc­guard for the women's basket­
departed goaltender, Marc 
tor of athletic media services. ball team.
Hobitaille, who made 31 saves 
Hurlbut said that approxi­University of ArizonaTh.i.s s~e:r, in the !Iusky win. After a mately twenty out of NU's 420 Director of Compliance Bill
splendid two years in goal for 
student-athletes hold in-season Morgan agrees. Morgan saidge-tan._ew Hobitaille, he left the school jobs, and the majority of those that only about six of Arizona's

last April to play in the 
are eligible for work/study. As 4 78 student-athletes hold in-Toronto Maple Leafs organiza­for students who received a full season jobs.
tion. 
scholarship, only three cur-"!Student-athletesl have the 
Need Cash?? r,'Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
~~-----------------------~ 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per tnonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of . Summer Service Projects 1999 _ 
I>o an.. SSP. 
your time. You choose your own 
**First inform_ational meeting: Nov.9,] 
schedule.
[ . 7-7.30 p.m., esc 
[i.~ 
Plasma Donations Save Lives 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
* 8 weeks of service learning 
* $1 700 tuition scholarship 
Come Donate Today!! 
*Valuable alumni contacts 
* 3 credits Theology, with possib(e cross-lists 
Call 234-60 1 0 and ask for Toni -or stop
*Over 200 sites across the U .5. and 
and see us at 515 Lincoln way West 
abroad 
South Bend, IN. 
Len.d a. ha.n.d. A.:n.d di•cover life. 
right to work." Morgan said. "They also have the right to 11unk out ... Most of our young­sters understand that they just don't have the time during the season." 
NU women's volleyball Coach Kevin Honshler said it is not practical for student-ath­letes to hold jobs during the season. But Henshler said he does not oppose the new rule just because of time con­straints, rather that he feels student-athletes can usc their minimal amount of spare time in a better fashion than work­ing. 
"There are so many resources to become educat­ed," Henshler said. "I would hope that people would spend their time trying to take advantage of those opportuni­ties, instead of going to work in downtown Evanston." 

.._ 
...~ 
Men's Volleyball 
Basketball 
Sunday, Nov. 8th 7:30pm 

-
Friday, Nov. 6th 7:00pm 
vs. Team Fokus 
vs. Georgetown Sunday, Nov. 8th 2:00pm vs. Villanova 
Friday, November 6, 1998
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS 
• VOllEYBAll • WOMEN's INTERHALL fOOTBAll 
Netters aiming for Big East title Walsh, PE will meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team squares off against Big East leader Georgetown tonight in perhaps its most crucial match of the season. 
With a 6-1 conference record: the Irish (1 0-11 overall) are tied for second in the Big East with Connecticut. while Georgetown is currently 7-0. 
"I think it's fairly obvious that we need to win the rest of our matches," said Irish head coach Debbie Brown. "For right now, we need to focus on Georgetown." 
Notre Dame has only four con­ference matches remaining on its schedule, so the Irish need a big victory over the Hoyas to have a strong shot at the regular season Big East title. Capturing the title would give Notre Dame the top seed in the conference tournament, the winner of which receives an automatic bid to the NCAA tournament. 
"I think they are stronger offensively; I think we are stronger on blocking," Brown said. "It should be pretty even." 
The Irish have never lost to Georgetown, but this year the Hoyas are 20-3 overall, and ranked first in their district. They are coached by Jolene Nagel. 
One key for Notre Dame will be shutting down Georgetown's top three players -middle blocker Melissa Tytko and out­side hitters Yulia Vtyurina and Kiran Gill. Vtyurina has been named the Big East rookie of the week live times this season. The Hussian native averages 3.9 kills and 2.85 digs per game on .333 hitting. Gill leads the Big East in kills per game at 4.44, and is second in aces per game with .55. Tytko leads Georgetown in blocks and is hitting .410. 
"Those are the three players that we need to key on," said Brown. 
Sunday the Irish will take on Big East foe Villanova, which pushed Georgetown to five games earlier this year. The Wildcats, under first-year head coach Heather Hohen, are 3-4 in the Big East. They qualified for the NCAA tournament in 1997. 
Senior outside hitter Megan O'Brien leads the team with 4.12 kills per game. She also aver­ages 3.97 digs per game, and 

has 28 service aces this season. Setter Cathy Arnette averages 
12.87 assists per game for the Wildcats. 
Notre Dame has never lost a match to the Wildcats, defeating them in the finals of the Big East tournament last season. 
The Irish continue to play without sophomore setter Denise Boylan, who tore ligaments in her right elbow Oct. 24 in prac­tice. Michelle Graham has filled in for Boylan, and the Irish have won two out of three matches in Boylan's absence. 
Tentative starters for the Irish this weekend are Graham, mid­dle blockers Lindsay Treadwell and Mary Leffers, outside hitters Jo Jameyson and Christi Girton, and opposite Emily Schiebout. 
The Irish lead the conference in hitting and blocking in Big
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Jo Jameyson and the Irish will face Big East leader Georgetown tonight East matches as well as in block­
in a critical match at the Joyce Center. ing for all matches. 
for semi-final game 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA 
Sports Writer 
No. 2 Walsh matches up this Sunday against No. 3 Pasquerilla East in semifinal action of the 1998 playoffs. 
The stakes of this game are dramatic, with the winner advancing to the championship game to be played in Notre Dame Stadium. Pasquerilla East would like to continue its recent success on these hal­lowed grounds by capturing its second straight title. 
Walsh, however, has enjoyed a dominating 5-1 season and exhibits no signs of slowing down. Coming off a 13-0 win against Cavanaugh last Sunday, Walsh has gained a sense of confidence in their ability to compete with Pasquerilla East. 
"We have been practicing all week", said Walsh captain Amy Krayer, "and arc very excited to be playing the defending cham­pions." 
Pasquerilla East also boasts a 5-1 regular season record, an example of how evenly matched the two teams arc. Both rely on explosive offensives featuring a dynamic mixture of passing and running attacks. Pasquerilla East possesses great speed on defense, both on the line and among the defensive backs. Walsh's defense also demands respect, having snagged 10 interceptions throughout the season, four in the last._ game alone. 
Although the teams appear equally talented on paper, the only matter of importance is the game on Sunday. 
A SPECIAL Alt~*a INVITATION ~f). 0~ 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r---,r---,r---,r---,r--­
1 10%off I I $5 off I I $6() 1 1 $30 1 1 $70 i I MAveda II II Cut and I I ColoSr!. c,.ut & I I M;micure I I Hilites & Cut I I akeup Style I I Yc I I & 1 I & St • 1
L ___ .J L ___ .J LOne Process..J L Pedicure .J L ylc .J 
•Please call to schedule you;;;;,;;ntmen;:-----
Strlist: This ofT<'r NOT •·alit! with Ciutlr. ( 
L
. • . . . . . . . · Ad must be presented to rec~ptit:!nist Please u~e the SpecJal Sdvmgs 111VJta!Jon and get Ill know before serv·i.C~S.llr.e. pe·.r.forroed us. Yo.u ."be pleased wuh the quality and service we (certain reStrictions appiy) prov1de.•md we w•ll do our best to ment your confidence ·· · :·'· 
and patronage. We hope to ste you Mwn. 
No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse serv1ce to any client whose ha1r condition is unsuitable. Expires 11/30/98. 
1357 N.lronwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 
s 
.. 
OPen for Lunch 
-
Friday9 Saturday9 Sunday 
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Discover • only valide @ above location • across from Linebacker • exp. Nov. 31, 1998 
GO IRISH •• BEAT EAGLES 

,--------------------------------------~--­
friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
--------------------------------~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------------~~­
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
FOXTROT 
NoPE. I SWEEPED WELL, 'THIS 11-iE HouSE lWICE. 11·115 \S 'THE LAST 
LoAD oF RUBBER GHoULS 
OF IT. 
FRoM THE LINEN CLoSET IS THE LAST oF MY ARSENAL.\ 
WHAT ABouT
c:;p 
ANY 1H1NGS You
) 
MIGHT HAVE PLANTED ouTstDE [":;~~.::!&. THE HOUSE? 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Sally Fil'ld, Maria Shnver, Mike Nichols, Ethan IJ,lwke 
lfappy Birlhd.1y: Slay calm and don'! let your <'motions influence any of your decisions this yeM. This will b,• a period of letting go of the lhings that an• no longer lo your benefil. You will have to slid. to what you know Lwst and work within the paran1etcrs !hat arl' alrt•ady '"'· If you abide by the niles, you will find yourself mov· ing in a positive direction. Your num­bers: b, 17, 21, 23, 32, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don'l LX' t<Xl quick to judge others. You can learn a lot if you listen to the advice gi\'en to you by friends and relatives.
BILL AMEND 
Sudden changes will occur through communication~. 0000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Luck IN THE 
WHERE? 
SIR, ARE YoU No PRoBLEM, 
will b<' yours in financial dealings.
AWARE THAT oFFICER. LET'S 
Involvement with hospitals or gov­
FRoNT 
THERE'S A oPEN IT uP 
ernml'lll agencies will turn oul favor­
SEAT? 
SHoELACE AND FIND 
ably. Acceptance will be the determin· 
ing factor where success is concerned. 000 
THE BAcK ~ 
DANGLING FRoM OUT WHY. 
suy? 1 YouR TRUNK? 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 
NoW THAT i 'l'ou MENT1oN ~ IT, lliERE
f w"s THAT! FAKE CoRPSE " I PuT IN 
DAD'S CAR. 
\ 
~ 
-1' 
nil RFilT 
E 
0
DILBERT, I'D LIK.E. 
'! 0
YOU TO MEE.T THE 
®
.. 
E
14UMORLE55 BLOB 
.. 
"tl..
I HIRED. 
~ 
Romantic connections will be intense. You should concentrate on directing your energy into fhys1cal encounters rather than menta disputes. Use your ingenuity to win. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Anger and deception will continue to hang o\'er your head. Be frank; how­ever, refrain from making acquisitions until you have all the pertinenl infor­mation when dealing with partners. Discord is likely if you lose control.
SCOTT ADAMS 
000 LEO (July 23·Aug. 22): Sudden changes regarding friends will puzzle 
those close to you. Don'I act in haste; think twice before vou make deci­
I HA.'VE 
SOfii\E 
sions. Don"t take financial risks. Doing some research just may save
IOE~S. 
vou a bundle. 0000 
WHOA.) LOOSE 
'­
BLOB I5 OUR I\IEW CREA.It\IE OIRECTOP-.. 
1-\15 J"OB IS TO 
FOSTER IN!'J'JVATtON. 
i 
~ 
u 
~ 
rn. ~ 
~ 
.... 
VIRGO (Aug. 23·S<•pl. 22): You can make fin,lncial g,1ms thruugh ron­servativt• invpstnwnts .1nd by taking can· of otlll'r p<•opl<''s nu•m•y. Tak<• a look at your own firlo1nci,ll pa1x·rs and organizt~ your plans to make your olSSCtS grow. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): D<•cep­!Ion rt'garding partnerships is evi­d<'nl. D1g dt'<'P and find nul all )'Ou can r.1ther than laking the word ol sonll'one else. Don'! allow your p<'r· sonallife to inll•rfen· w11h your carl'<'r. 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Don't lei others put limitations or d<'n1ands on your time. Older members of your family may pos(' a problem for you loday. Mon('y matt<'rs will be unsla-. 
ble. Don't lend or bormw. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Get organized and delve into on<' thing at a time for besl results. Sud· den changes regarding your home will develop. Accepl the inevitable. You can avoid mishaps if you are 
well-organized. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make headway by taking work home with you. Recognition and rewards will come lhrough your ability to meet deadlines and handle the responsibililies you encounter. 
000 AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Opportunities for business partner­ships will develop while you art' lrav· cling. Your insighl into future trends will aid you in making lhe right deci­sion.OOOOO PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Sud­den changes in your home environ· ment will free up monev thai was invested. Make sure that ·you follow legal procedures. Minor accidents could occur if you·rll overindulgent. 00 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
• OF INTEREST 
Saint Mary's students, faculty and stall' can fill out 'of interest' and/or 'briefs' at the Hagaar front desk week­days from 8 a.m. to 4:15p.m. Please complete two days prior to the date of publication. 
The Mozarten Players will perfom Sunday at 2 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museum. The trlo -which consists of Steven Lubin, fortepiano; Stanley Ritchie, classical violin; and Myron Lutzke, cla.•>­sical cello -is known for the thoroughly modern vital spirits it brings to chamber masterworks of the classlcal period. Tickets for the concert are available at the LaFortune Box Office, 631-8128, and are $3 for stu­dents, $6 for senior citizens, $8 for Notre Dame/Saint Mary's employees with ID and $10 for general admis­sion. The conert is sponsored by the Notre Dame Department of Music. Please call 631·6201 for more information. 
Father Malloy's annual visit to the Faculty Senate meeting will be Monday, Nov. 9 at 8 p.m. in the <Wditori­um of the Center for Continuing Education. All arc wel­come to attend. 
The Nanovic Institute for European Studies and the department of German and Hussian present Ernestine Schlant of Montclair State University lecturing on: OThe Langttage of Silence: West German Literature and the Holocaust,6 at 2 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 9 in 424 Flatmer. 
INROADS -Tr·actitionally underrepresentt~d groups of'
42 Kind of humor 49 Org. that 
freshmen and sophomores are invited to lean about 
43 Migratory insect shelters strays 
summer internship opportunities Monday. Nov. 9 at the
50 Duelist ol1804 45 Guitar player's 51 Song from 
esc at 7:30p.m. 
implements Placido 46 Pinball no-no 
Pi Sigma Alpba, The College Democrat and the
52 Actress Lamarr 47 Brainstorm 55 Bumpkin 
College Republican clubs will hold a ound table discus­sion with Bill Bradley entitled ~1998 Election Analysis: A 
48 Panache 56 Price add-on 
Houndtable Discussion with Senator Bill Bradley." It will be held on Nov. 9, in the Hesburgh Library Lounge from 
11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. The meeting wi.ll be f'ormnttt~d a..<> an
Answers to any three clues in this puzzre are available by touch-tone phone: 
informed discussion of election results. All who are 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
interested in the recent election results are encourged 
Annual subscriptions are available for the and invited to attend. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 vears: 1800\ ?n:>-1 fin<> 
-.. 
-
-
--
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Event lor Cinderella s Father 9 Father 12 Ja1 -~ 13 Washington's successor 15 Composer Bartok 16 Second man to set foot on the moon 18 Soothsayer's aid 19 W1th 60-Across. author of "'The Joy Luck Club" 20 Whitish 21 Beethoven·s Thtrd 23 Marathon 24 Consider 
0 
li 
25 Covet 28 Ad lor the lovelorn 32 .. 
think so!"" 33 Currency in 
Capri 34 Kind of model 35 Chinese 
dynasty 36 Belle! 37 Quick lunch 38 And others: 
Abbr. 39 Ruin's partner 40 Pondered 41 Like a nag 43 Also.rans 44 Eyebrow 
position 45 Maritime stop 46 Color aIa the 
Grateful Dead 49 Filmdom's Vittorio De -­
50 Ebenezer's 
exclamation 53 Not busy 54 TV, movies, 
comics. etc. 57 Shakespearean 
king 58 Fires 59 Parched 60 See 19-Across 61 Observe Yom 
Kippur, in a way 62 Like Superman's vision 
DOWN 
1 Ali---of children's fiction 
2 Reuniongoer, 
lor short 3 Slothful 4 Actress Taylor 5 Regal home 
6 Confuse 7 Shave 8 ·· -my 
brother's keeper?" 9 Moore of ··Ghost"" 
economy nln pieces 22 -ipsa 
loquitur 23 Cabal's head 
24 Hollywood's Bo 
25 March of-­
26 Novelist Wharton 27 Submarine system 28 "Collar" 29 Cacophony 30 Transform 31 City on the Aire 33 Dogwalker's line 36 Arm muscle 40Virtuous 
-------·--------------------------------------------------------------------­
• Baseball great Lenny • The Volleyball team Dykstra will retire due 
heads east to take on to a back condition. 
Georgetown. 
... -
p.l8 
p.22
PORTS 
O THE 
page 24 BSERVER Friday, November 6, 1998 

• NOTRE DAME MEN's SOCCER • HOCKEY 
Underdog ND begins post-season Irish on the road to 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistanr Sporrs Editor 
The season that remains for the Irish will not be as forgiving of them as the regular season was. 
The Irish finished their regu­lar season posting a mediocre 5-4-2 Big East conference record, which barely put them in the playoffs. They secured the seventh spot in the eight­team tournament only after their last game. The conference record was littered with upset losses to Rutgers, Georgetown, and Providence, and the defeat at the hands of No. 1 Connecticut. 
Yet the Irish will continue to fight as they begin the season which counts, the one that will make the record books -the postseason. As Notre Dame makes its third-straight appear­ance in the Big East tourna­ment, they have an entirely new game to play for. 
"This is a whole new season we're beginning," said head coach Mike Berticelli. "Everyone is at 0-0, just like us." 
But in this season, there is no room for 0-1 teams. 

Seventh-ranked 
team hopes to 
payback BC 
By TED BASSANI Sports Writer 
After having last weekend off, the Notre Dame hockey team returns to action on the road this weekend, with a game Friday versus the top­ranked, undefeated Boston College Eagles. 
The Irish will move on to face the Northeastern University Huskies on Saturday night. This weekend gives the seventh-ranked Irish a chance to earn some pay­back for two gut-wrenching, third-period losses they suf­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum fered last season at the hands The men's soccer team will face St. John's, the second-ranked team in of the same two the Big East in the quarterfinals Sunday. opponents. In what will be the team's
First up for Notre Dame in 13 team in the nation. Though toughest challenge to date, the
the quarterfinals will be St. 
Irish will take on the nation'sJohn's, the ·second-place team seeM. SOCCER 1page 19 consensus No. 1-ranked teamin the conference and the No. 
take on top-ranked BC 
in enemy territory when they square off versus Boston College in the Conte Forum. 
Coming off last season's shocking run to the NCAA title game, expectations are high for the Eagles, who lost only three lettermen from last year's squad. More important­ly, the Eagles are well-bal­anced from top to bottom. They have a perfect balance of youth and experience, as well as size and speed. The Eagles' roster consists of seven seniors, six juniors, eight sophomores and three fresh­men. 
At 5'7", sophomore forward Brian Gionta sparks the team's offense with electrify­ing speed and a soft scoring touch -talents which netted him a hat trick earlier this season in a BC win over Ohio State. Junior defenseman Mike Mottau has already been named the Hockey East Conference's player of the month for October. Mottau is considered one of the nation's 
see HOCKEY I page 21 
-
-
-
• NOTRE DAME WOMEN's SoCCER 
Second-seeded strikers seek fourth Big East title 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
STORRS, Conn. 
The second-seeded Notre Dame women's soccer team (17 -2-1) continues its run for a fourth-straight Big East tournament title, as the Irish take on third-seeded Syracuse (13-5-1) this after­noon at Morrone Stadium in Storrs, Conn. 
"I think the team has really stepped it up over the last couple of games," senior Monica Gerardo said. "We're starting to play really well and we're starting to gel! a lot better. Our confidence is definitely on the rise and I think that's going to help us coming into this weekend's games." 
The Irish advanced to the semifinal game with a win over seventh-seeded West Virginia on Tuesday. 
Gerardo, Notre Dame's all­time leading scorer with 68 career goals, netted a pair of goals to lead the Irish over the Mountaineers 5-0 at Alumni Field. 
Junior Jenny Streiffer, one of just eight players in NCAA history to record 50 goals and 50 assists, also had a goal in that contest. 
Top-seeded Connecticut and fifth-seeded Boston College square off in today's other semifinal showdown. The two semifinal winners will then meet on Sunday at noon to determine the tournament champion. 
The Irish's main concern, however, is getting past Syracuse today. 
"Obviously, this is what we worked for all year, but we know that we still have a ways to go and we're just going to take one. game at a time," Gerardo said following the win over West Virginia. 
"We're happy we came out and played well tonight. That will definitely benefit us play­ing Syracuse on Friday and hopefully making it to the finals," she said. 
This will be the second time this week that Notre Dame and Syracuse have met. On Sunday, the Irish closed out the regular season with a 7-0 shellacking of the Orangewomen. 
Sophomore Anne Makinen led the way, as she recorded the third hat trick of her career. 
"She played a great game," Petrucelli said following the team's win over Syracuse. "We've asked her to step up and take over a little bit and I think she's done that." 
Sophomore Meotis Erikson added two goals in that game for the Irish, while Jenny Heft and Gerardo each had one. 
Heft has provided much of the scoring this season for 

The Irish will play Syracuse this weekend as they seek their fourth consecutive Big East title. The team finished out the regular season against Syracuse earlier this week. 
the fifth-ranked Irish. She per game. goals," head coach Petrucelli already has 26 goals on the Heft and Notre Dame boast said. "We're going up against year, tying Cindy Daws' the nation's top-ranked teams that we have to score school record, and is among offense. the nation's best in both "I think it's important for us 
see W. SOCCER I page14 points per game and goals to be playing well and scoring 
at Boston College Big East Quarterfinals 
-(I M
Saturday, 12 p.m. at Sr. John's Sunday, 12 p.m. at Boston College 
SPORTS 
ATA 
Big East Semifinals ·~ Today, 7 p.m. 
w 
at Connecticut vs Georgetown Today, 12 p.m. ~ Today, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 

t88 CHAMPIONSHIP IRISH EXCHANGE ROSTERS IRISH INSIGHT THE NATION PAGEl PAGEJ PAGES PAGE6 PAGE7 
'. . ' 
____________________..
• 0 
------~--------------~­
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 6, 1998 
BUILDING A CHAMPION 
ROAD TO THE '88 CHAMPIONSHIP 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Opponents knew Wes Pritchett and Frank Starns as the men who put frowns on their faces during the 1988 season, yet the intimidating Irish defenders' teammates could rarely hold a straight face in their company. 
From "hot sauce" in team­mates' helmets during August two-a-days to crushing hits in key games, inside linebacker Pritchett and defensive end Starns were the team pranksters credited with keeping the. Irish upbeat and unbeaten. 
"They have more fun than any kids in a sandbox," then-coach Lou Holtz said. "[They] are always playing games. One of the key ingredients in life is to look to have fun in everything you do." 
Pritchett and Starns took that motto to heart, especially when it came to the media. 
Pritchett once joked with a reporter that he was a model and choreographer in his spare time. Starns decided to have a little fun with the journalist as well, noting his friend's inclina­tion for badminton and tether ball. 
"He told the guy I could play around all day in the park dur­ing the summer. It got into the story," Pritchett said in '88. "I've never played badminton or teth­er ball in my life." 
The team's Abbott and Costello also used national TV air time to boost their reputa­tions. 
While Holtz was being inter­viewed by CNN's sports report during a practice session, Pritchett and Starns yelled com­pliments into an off-screen microphone, hoping viewers would think the applause was from assistant coaches. 
"We were just giving ourselves a plug," Pritchett explained. "You never know when some­body you know might be watch­ing." 
But the intimidating 6-foot-6, 251-pound Pritchett and 6-foot­4, 237-pound Starns knew when to get serious. 
As part of a rock-solid defense 
- which  included  legendary  
names  like  Michael  
Stonebreaker,  Todd  Lyght  and  

Chris Zorich -both churned out impressive stats. 
Senior co-captain Pritchett led the Irish in the regular season with 112 tackles. 
Meanwhile, his counterpart Starns bullied quarterbacks, tal­lying seven sacks and four bro­ken-up passes. He also was named an all-American, along with Stonebreaker and offensive tackle Andy Heck, thanks to 51 total tackles (32 unassisted). 
Bruising opponents was just another laugh for them. 
"We like to have fun," Pritchett said. 'That's been the key this year. It's not a conscious effort on our part to always have fun. We just enjoy playing for Notre Dame and what we do is a result of that." 
With the result being a 12-0 national championship season, who could argue? 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information Frank Starns, defensive lineman for the 1988 national championship team, struck fear into opposing quarter­backs but showed a different side in the locker room with his sense of humor. 
•om1no 271-0300 OPen for Lunch FridaY~ SaturdaY~ SundayWe accept Visa, Mastercard, Discover • only valide @ above location • across from Linebacker • exp. Oct. 31, 1998 GO IRISH •• BEAT EAGLES  s  

' 
I I 
. ' 
' 
Friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM 
THE HEIGHTS
IRISH EXCHANGE 
BOSTON COLLEGE'S INDEPENDENT WEEKLY 
By MARK J. CAUTELA 
Tho Heights Sports Editor 
On Saturday, the Boston College Eagles will welcome the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame into Alumni Stadium for a test of BC's pride. 
The Eagles, at 3-5 and losers of their last five in a row. have qukkly faded from the bowl pic­tum. But every year the Notre Dame game is thn most hyped match-up of the year, and 1998 is no exception. 
The Irish. with a 6-1 record, havn momentum on their side, as well as the point spread. ND, led by quarterback .Jarious Jackson and tailback Autry Denson, will serve as another test of the Eagles' option dnfnnse. 
Already having faced Donavan McNabb and Syracuse, Jon I lamilton and Georgia Tech, and Brian Broadwater and Navy, BC should be well­schooled on how to defend the triple throat. 
Key injuries to BC's defense will make the chore even tough1~r on Saturday. Starting linebacker Brian Mayo is out with a groin injury, and starting safety Pedro Cirino (who led the 1\aglns in tackles a year ago) is out with a m~ck burner. The last two weeks, with true freshman DeJuan Daniels and red-shirt freshman Carlos Moore start­ing, the BC secondary has been ravaged by big plays. 
The Midshipmen of Navy com­pleted two passing plays of over 50 yards and Scott Covington 
and  Miami  picked  apart  the  
Eagles a week ago.  
Noseguard  Chris  Hovan  will  

be counted on to stop ND full­back Jamie Spencer up the mid­dle, as well as put pressure on Jackson, whose passing has improved during the course of the season. 
Hovan has bulked up in the past year and is BC's stud on defense, with Cirino and Maye out. The outside linebackers, (Adam Newman and Willie Wright) will have the tough test of trying to contain the option when Jackson rolls outside. 
On offense, BC will ride the shoulders of Big East rushing leader Mike Cloud. Last week Cloud was held to only 75 yards by Miami's defense, the first time all year he failed to rush for over 100 yards. 
BC fell behind early and had to go to the air, taking away rushing attempts from Cloud: When BC runs they have one of the best lines in the country to do it behind. Center Damien Woody and guard Doug Brzenkski are all-american can­
didates and both of 
them are future NFL
IRISH INSIDER EDITOR: KATHlEEN lOPEZ lineman. Their passing protec­
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: JOEY CAVATO. AlliSON tion was a little lax last KRillA ASSISTANT EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, week, as quarterbackScott Mutryn was
Bill HART 
scrambling for his life
DESIGN: MARK DEBOY 
most of the game. 
GRAI'I-IICS: PETE CllEllA 
Mutryn, a fifth-year
COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAllY 

senior, has been 
erratic most of 
the season. 
His best games have come against Georgia Tech and Navy, where he threw for over 200 yards both times. He has the tools, but lacks experi­ence, as this is his first year as a full-time starter. 
His wideouts. Anthony DiCosmo, .Jermaine Walker and Dennis Harding, have been just as unpredictable. Walker in partic­ularly has given the coaching staff fits as he'll catch 10 balls for over 100 yards and two touchdowns against Navy, but have two fumbles and two drops against Louisville. 
The Eagles will have to keep the ball on offense in order to keep Notre Dames offense off the field. 
Cloud can grind out yards, provid­ed Mutryn keeps the ND defense honest with a cou­ple of completions. First and can be. Second, but almost as Denson and Jackson both have 
important will be the defense's huge gains and it will i:)e up toforemost, the Eagles want to prevention of the big play. Hovan and Co. to stop them.
establish Cloud as the runner he 

RECORD: 6-1 
RECORD: 3-S 
A.P. NATIONAL RAN KING: 13 A.P. NATIONAL RANKING: UNRANKED
THE EDGE 

Quarterbacks-Even ..... -· ·rtn;;: ::11~~r:~I::~m ··•·L~o~6acR~i§i±r!lvell:·':''i:.:.'··· 

Jarious Jackson has established himself as athreat in the air and on the ground. Mistakes are still prevalent in Jackson's game, like the botched wristband play on third down against Baylor. Time is his friend and with each game his choices will get better and better. Eagle quarterback Scott Mutryn could prove to be aformidable opponent. He is averaging 211.9 yards per game and could turn in one of the top-1 0 passing seasons in BC history, but some say his nerves can get to him. 
Running Backs • NO 
.. Brian Maye, who was a member of the '93 squad who broke Irish fans' hearts, leads a hungry line backing core. Maye currently leads the team with 61 tackles, 35 of which are solo. Notre Dame's Bobbie Howard is equally impressive ~ racking up 63 tackles and leading the team. Each captainbrings atalented core of individuals to the group. 
, 
Seconda.ry ·~. ND 
Autry Denson set acareer-high last weekend with 189 yards 
The original secondary is back intact with the return of against the Bears of Baylor. He is on tap to break Notre Dame's Benny Guilbeaux. A'Jani Sanders proves that he is no career rushing mark and possibly finish as one of the top rushers slacker, making 40 tackles and returning an interception for in NCAA history. With Darcey Levy still nursing that sprained a touchdown in the Arizona State game. Deke Cooper is ankle look for freshman Tony Fisher to give Denson's some time second on the team in tackles with 58. Driver's switch to to breath. Eagle running back Mike Cloud is solid like Denson, he 
defense has had nothing but positive repercussions anymore.
too is set to break the career rushing mark at BC. He is BC's Boston College's defense against the pass is lackluster,running game with little other talent to back him up. 
ranking 97th in pass efficiency defense. Special Teams .. NO Jackson has various targets in the receivers this year. Thus far he Hunter Smith and Jim Sanson have proven that they can has favored senior Malcolm Johnson who is Notre Dame's leading come through in the clutch. Smith's missile of a punt against receiver coming into the game, averaging 54.7 yards receiving per Arizona State and Sanson's field goal against Army proved game. While Johnson carried amajority of the weight, his fellow that they are aforce to be reckoned with. The Eagles' special senior Bobby Brown came into play especially last weekend with teams waiver at the slightest amount of pressure. Boston his 66-yard touchdown r~ception. College is averaging around 34 yards per punt and has had two blocked. The last-minute chance for a win against Navy fell short on a40-yard field goal attempt. 

Boston College's line has alot to boast about, but so does Notre BC head coachfom O'Brien's crew has had a rough go of it Dame's. They defend the second-best rusher in BC history, Mike in October, losing four straight. Three straight losses at home Cloud. Notre Dame can boast the exact same thing as it defends to Virginia Tech, Syracuse and Navy is tough to overcome. the second-best rusher in Irish history. Each line mirrors the other Davie and Co. get the advantage in this category, entering this 
.. 

as the Eagles, just like the Irish, rarely let their opponents get a game with five straight victories and knowing that November paw on their quarterback. is the month to remember. 
Defensive Line .. NO Notre Dame's young line has shown steady improvement since 
Notre Dame should prevail in this contest. They dominate day one. Each member has contributed equally. The Notre Dame almost all categories. The Irish enter the game on astrong defense has only allowed only 11.5 points per game and these winning streak while the Eagles enter their last home game guys are part of the reason. Junior Chris Hovan anchors the BC having lost three straight. Jackson and Co. might have a line. He got aquick start achieving eight tackles in the first two tough go of it with one of their fiercest rivals. In the end, games and 12 tackles against Temple. While BC has improved look for the Fightin' Irish to prevail. somewhat in defense against the run, they still rank 58th, which is less than impressive. 






I I t I 

page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 6, 1998 
In his final 
•
cafT!-pazgn, M(iJcolm John:s-on has 
ball, the playmakers for the Irish would have proven themselves in the shadows and away from the big plays? 
But in last Saturday's 27-3 win against Baylor, one player clearl¥. emerged from the shadows to · he's the man of action ­Johnson. But his 352 yards on25 tions in the first six games . this do not best illustrate team. 
What truly t;;At;'lU}JIUU• 
was fellow wide-out yard catch and run · of the Baylor game touchdown. After two .. Catches for 25 first of season, Brown 
has· · · 37 yards on five catches 
And Johnson couldn't 
crossed that end z:one [on his I felt like my own brother did it," Johnson said. "Bobby and I are best friends and obviously I was very happy for him." 
He came out of the trenches on that play to celebrate -not his accomplish­ment, but the team's. On a roster loaded with players who stand out due to touchdowns, rush yards, sacks and the like, Johnson chooses a different path. 
"I was really proud with the fact that Bobby Brown caught that long pass for the touchdown and probably the happi­est guy ·in that stadium was Malcolm Johnson," commented eoavh Bob Davie on the selfless devotion of Johnson to his team. "I think he's a consistent foot­ball player that's becom\'l,.i~¢a1 goodleader for this football te · · · · · · 
But his work ethic is· n · to his teammates. On the pr the weight room and room, Johnson's greatesfc 
his attitude. 
"Its not so much being vocal. but through my actions," Johnson explained. "I mean, guys see me in the weight room, pushing it when we run sprints, etc~tera. Obviously, they can follow that and pick those things up and become su~essful on the next level." 
Onct: ; again, Brown is partially r · ble. Johnson's efforts to be a l on the team are only intensified 
two receivers play off each other 
.·crease their level of play. 
..Malcolm comes out here everyday and practices at a high rate of speed," Davie said. "He and Bobby Brown push each other everyday. So I see him as a leader on this football team because of 
it." ' 
ihlltplaced him as the 17th-best off guard for the scores. in t)1e ...nation according to "I cari'ttust them," said Jackson. "Its 
total trust.;l:,lp;low if1put th~ ball up its 
going to btf ~fUJI effort froty,.Qith,er OlW "I wanted tabe on the field so badly I of them." ·..,. · · .· · was willing t6 play anywhere. So my No longerin the shadow&fm; th redshirt freshman year I was basically a field heroics, Brown and John special teams ace. I was able to win a proven they can make som > letter that way and contribute .to the pen when their numbei<'ts team that way," he said. Though their statistics have irtade 
It wasn't long before his intensity standouts, their teammates know·· earned him a regular spot on the field, true worth is with their ability to co as he made 52 regular-season appear­through and provide the action ......;, ances with special teams in 1995. He and off the field. ··. also gained limited time as a split end behind all-star Derrick Mayes before becoming a starter a year later. Since then, Johnson is only one of two current seniors to have played in all 43 games of their collegiate career, the other being Autry Denson. 
Through all those levels, Johnson has applied a focus that has been anything but disappointing. 
"It's been a rnillg·~:f;JeJrimlce. so far," · my first focus· was just to compete: ... I level, then it was to . Notre Dame level, the bar a lit­tle bit and I .want to complete at a championship level. and I think that's what this team is headed for this sea­son." 
Even at this point, Johnson is ready to adjust his gameplan for the good of the team. Last year's departure of Ron Powlus and the Irish return to the option offense jeopardized Johnson and . Brown's chance to have back-to-hack :. · seasons with 40 receptions apiece. But that means nothing to Johnson; only winning does. 
"Those numbers last year got us [a record ofl 7-6. and that's unaccept­able," he said. "This year, we're one game away from matching our win total and the season is only halfway over. I think everyone on the team was excited about this year. We pass the ball a little less but I think its much more balanced and creates a lot more mismatches for defense. The changes have turned out well so far." 
The new-look Irish oflimse has been successful, even for Johnson personally. Averaging a little more than 14 yards a recepti.on and four receptions a game, quarterback Jarious Jackson has had another player to gain the yards with. 
"It's nice to have those kind of guys out there who can catch the ball and be good targets for the quarterback. We've never really backed off throwing [with the option], just that the games have dictated it in certain ways. But we always have confidence in those guys and you're not afraid to hit them," said offensive coordinator Jim .....v._.,..,,.v. 
,, 


page 5
friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
IN THE 
SPOTLIGHT 
~~ (~(:(11 t!i~ ., (:(:h wl:f·~~i i~ \'t'l:i. i 1: 
w~<i·'/ 
t-7-n: 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu The Observer/John Daily 
Lamont Bryant has been stellar at rush line­Anthony Denman showed a knack for getting 2ND 
2ND
backer in the absence of Grant Irons. to quarterbacks with two sacks last weekend. 
Bobbie Howard and Jimmy Friday will and will use the play action. 
SEASON ATSEASON 
have their hands full trying to weather the The Eagles also have a tradition of 
BOSTONAT NOTRE 
Mike Cloud ground attack. deadly tight ends, remember Maverick, 
COLLEGE
The senior tailback enjoys running Pete Mitchell back in 1993. Current tight
DAME 
behind an enormous offensive line and is end Rob Taridio is big and athletic and 
·"' 
the No. 2 rusher in the nation. has 21 catches on the year. 
Tom O'BrienBob Davie 
It's also his last game in Alumni Grant Irons returns from injury to com­
CAREER RECORD: 7-12CAREER RECORD 13-7 
Stadium and he'll be looking to go out in pliment Lamont Bryant in the rush line­
AT HOSTON COLEGE: 7-12 AGAINST HC 1-0 
style. backer slot. 
AT NOTRE DAME 13-7 AGAINST NOTRE DAME: 0-1
lloward and Friday will have to get off Getting to signal. caller Scott Mutryn 

their blocks and wrap up Cloud or it could won't be easy as the Eagles have only be a long day on the turf in Chestnut Hill. given up five sacks on the year.
ROSTER 
They won't be able to be too aggressive The Irish are still waiting for a breakout 
It: 
ROSTER 
since the Eagles have a balanced attack performance from captain Kory Minor. 

No. Name Pos. HI. Wt. Yr,
No. Name Pos. Ill. WI. YR I ]ermaino Walker WR 5-8 166 SRI Dt.'kc Coopt•r FS 6-3 221 JR 2 Brian St. Pit•rre QB 6-4 185 FR2 Bt•nny Guilbt•aux S..S 6-2 215 SR 3 Pedro Cirino DB 5-11 191 ]RArnar. Battle QB 6-1 195 FR Carlton Rowe RB 5-11 200 ]R
Knry Minor OLB 6-1 245 SR 
Michat•l Bullock DB 5-10 172 ]R5 A'jdni Sandt•rs FS 5-11 191 SR RaMon Johnson DB· 5-10 187 SO6 M,,Jcolm fnhnson SE 6-5 215 SR 6 Ramon Noodles FD 8oz $.24 CK7 [Mimi~ }iKkson QB 6-0 220 SR 7 Tim Hassclbeck QB 6-2 211 SO8 Eric Chappell QB 6-4 225 ]R 8 Jason Smith Dll 6-2 193 SOH Anthony Brann.m OI.B 5-11 203 ]R 9 Derrick Crittenden WR 5-9 183 ]R
9 R,1ki Ndson fL 5-11 178 ]R 
10 Pat l'helts DB 'i-lll 189 ]R10 Ilt•vt.•ron I lc1rper CB 5-11 IH7 ]R 11 Anthony DiCosmu WR 6-3 209 SRII Jay Johnson SE 6-0 IH7 ]R 12 Scott Mutryn QB 6-3 213 SR12 Tony Pisht·r RB 6-1 202 FR 13 Willie Wright DE 6-2 214 SR13 Jimmy Friday lUI 6-2 236 SR 14 Dedrick Dewalt WR 5-9 169 FR14 O.wid Givl'ns Wl{ 6-0 214 FR IS Kenney Gaskins WR 5-9 167 FRL'i Clifford ]elft•rson DB 5-9 165 FR 16 Rob Tardio TE 6-5 245 SR16 John Shingler TE 6-1 250 SR 17 Steve Dapra WR 5-10 171 SO17 lluntl'r Smith P 6-2 218 SR 18 DennisHarding WR 6-1 178 SRIH J•x•y Gt•therall SE 5-7 172 so 19 Dave Robbins QB 6-0 204 SO19 lim S.mson K 5-9 IH9 ]R 20 Quinton Lc"e Rl3 5-10 195 ]R20 C.ulus PiL"rrt.·-Antoine LB 6-2 240 PR 
20 Quinton Tarcntino DR 6-!l 210 PF 21 Mike Cloud RB 5-11 201 SR 21 J,,vin Huntt•r WR 5-11 172 PR 
22 Jay Yi<;_~cr• . TB . ' t:O ·-JR
•_2!? 
21 Johnny Cirris CL 'i-4 23 I I'~2.1 Autry Dtonson TB 5-10 202 SR 
23 John Matich I'K 6-2 203 JH 25 lbny Drivt•r FS 6-2 214 so 
24 Ty Gmdt• CB 5-11 192 SR 24 Carlos Monrt.• OB 5-10 185 FR 
25 D.]. Sutton DB 5-8 !59 SO
26 Lt•t• L1f.tyt•ttt• SS 5-10 t98 ]R 
26 Curtis Bolden DB 6-1 195 FR27 llubbit• Howard lLB 5-10 232 SR 27 Tim Davis Dll 5-9 181 JR2H llunald Dykt•s DB 5-10 tHo 1'R 27 Davis D&T 5-9 180 SP
28 MihCmdy FS 5-11 200 JR 
28 Jonathan Ordway DB 5-10 176 FR29 Justin Smith CB 6-2 188 so 29 Tim Lt'ary WR 5-10 177 FR311 Rocky Uoim,ln DR 6-3 222 Fl~ 30 Emmerson Phillips DB 6-0 tHO FR)I Eric llim.m CB 5-11 179 SR 32 Dujuan Danil•ls WR/DB 5-10 170 FR
32 Tt.•rr.1nct• llowilrd RB 6-1 181 RB 
33 Daniel Picone 1.11 6-0 210 SO32 Justin Mt•ku SS 5-11 209 SR 34 Mik<• Sutphin PK 6-3 2119 SO
D )itmic Spt•nn•r FB 6-l 245 SR 
35 Cedric Washin~ton Rll 5-10 197 SOJJ Phil Sicuso CB 5-11 IH8 SR 36 Greg Bartlett Rll 6-0 214 SR34 Ronnie Nicks lUI 6-1 234 ]R 37 Nick Blevins Ol.B 6-2 216 FRJ'i llavid Millt•r K-P 5-11 177 FR 38 Kevin Costello DB 5-9 178 SOJ'i Jascint Vukl'iich FB 6-0 224 so 38 Abbot & Costello Who's on lst. What's on 2nd.
36 Tom l.opit•nNki FB 6-2 240 FR 
39 Nathan Funk RB 5-11 193 FR 37 Ron hmll'l CB 6-U 198 so 
3h Tim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 39 Giveupthe Funk GC 6-2 222 I'A 
4!1 George White DB 6-1 200 ]R37 Kt•vin Rkl' SS 6-0 212 51{ 41 Marco Williams DB 6-I 200 FR38 Brock Willi.ims CB 5-10 189 so 42 joe Mickens 1.11 6-0 207 ]R19 Anthony Dt•nm.m OLO 6-1 231 so 43 Jason Malc>cki 1' 6-2 220 SR)9 Chris Leek SS 5-10 195 ]R 44 Frank Chamberlin LB 6-0 239 ] R 411 Jason Murray I'll 6-1 254 so 
45 David Coppola WR 5-lll 182 FR 41 Jnt.· Ft.•rn.•r OLR 6-2 231 JR 
·Ill Brt.•nd.m Farwll ILB 5,10 220 ]R 45 Francis Ford Coppola DR 5-7 177 GF 
46 Brian Maye LB 6-3 227 SR-12 Antwoim• Wellington NG 6·0 261 ]R 
47 Andrew Krauza DL 6-3 256 SR ·14 <;r,mt Irons OLB 6-5 256 so 
4.1 IIugh llolmcs lLB 6-1 212 so 48 Ryan Utzler I'll 6-2 228 FR 
49 Kevin Crane DL 6-4 257 I'R4'i Jtx•y Coodspet.•d 1:0 6-0 241 ]R 49 Crane Tcchniqut• KK 5-3 122 DL46 Kevin Dansby OLB 6-1 228 so 50 Paul LaQucrrc 01.. 6-3 305 SO46 Benjnmin Robinson TE 6-2 241 SR 51 Jerome Ledbt•tter Lll 6-2 210 FR 51 Yellow Ledbl'lter P] 6~1 20 I EV
)~I
47 Mike McNair FB 6-0 221 FR 
48 fohnathan I tebt.•rt SE 5-ll 202 ]R 
.'-·' 
52 Andrew Romanow sky LB 6-2 230 FR49 jot.• Thumas ILB 6-2 227 SR 54 Scott Bradley l.B 6-2 210 FR
'ill David 1\tynt.' OC 6-1 287 SR 
CORNERBACK 
55 Steve Martin LB 6-2 218 SO
24-Goode
51 Tyrt.'O !Iarrison LB 6-2 238 FR 55 The Jerk MY 6-1 1984 ST
\. 15-Jefferson
53 I.•1mont Bryant DE 6-3 258 SR 
HALFBACK 
57 john Colontrellt• Lll 6-0 222 SO54 Luklo l'ctitgout OT 6-6 300 SR 
21-Cioud 
58 Derric Rossy Lll 6-3 220 FR'iS jim Jom•s OG 6-3 295 ]R 
35-Washington 58 Bn•ndan O'Connor OG 6-2 292 ]R 
59 Brook<• Heald l.ll 6-3 231 )R 
DROP 
61 Robert Withers OL 6-3 244 FR62 Cast•y Robin OT 6-6 300 so 
Q 4-Minor 
62 John Richardson 01./DL 6-.1 271 FR6) Mikt'Trilw !LB 5-10 220 ]R 
~ 39-Denman 
63 Damim Woody OL 6-4 312 ]I{M John ML•randi C 6-3 292 ]R no JW Jordan C 6-0 289 so 6.1 Morning Wtx>dy liD 14" H SR 64 Mike Callahan I.B 6-1 242 FR
,(
67 John Wagner OT 6-7 300 SR 
FULLBACK 
65 Michael Cook OL 6-5 300 SO68 M.ttt Arl·nnan OT 6-7 295 ]R 
4B·Uitzer 
66 Paul Zuk•uskas OL 6-5 306 SO69 Mik<· (;,mdy ex~ 6-4 296 ]R 
96-Burch 
67 Den Lockhart OL 6-3 237 SR70 Tim Riddt•r OG 6-7 298 SR 71 ]<•rry Wism• ex; 6-7 298 SR 70 Chris Sheehan DL 6-5 2611 FR 71 Mattlww Dt•sm,uab 01 6-4 34!1 FR 72 Butch Palaza 01. 6-4 287 ]R 72 f{yan Scarul.t Ol. 6-4 310 FR 73 Jdf Rtll'hl OL 6-4 287 FR 74 Rob Mow! C 6-5 295 ]R 73 Dan Collins OL 6-5 287 SR 74 Doug Brzezinski Ol. 6-5 305 SR76 John Tmsdale OT 1>-5 295 so 77 Brad Willi.1ms DE 6-5 286 JR 75 Marc Columbo 01. 6-H 289 FR 76 Darnell Alford OT 6-4 323 ]R 77 Dan Koppen 01. 6-3 21>5 FR 7H ]ord,m lllack OL 6-5 3H1 FR 79 Mikt• l{oS<•nthal OT 6-7 300 SR HI Ll•wis Dnwsnn Fl. 6-0 1H5 JR 78 Dan Murphy OL 6-5 265 Fl{ 79 Matt Knapp OL 6-5 30H 1'1{HJ Patrick Reynolds WR 5-11 . 179 FR H4 l;erald Morgan TE 6-3 26.1 FR 79 lnet•da Nap SL 3hrs 15min REM 
80 Mike Cuozzo TE 6-3 2..10 JR85 Antwon Jones NG fi-3 280 SR 80 Tim Reinbold NUC 5-111 8K BXOH5 M,>rk Rul<• WR 6-2 218 SR 81 Josh Cervi TE 6-3 221 FRlih Dan O'Leary TE 6-5 256 )R 82 Robert Ellis TE 6-4 252 SO87 J.tb.tri llnlloway TE 6-3 254 so 82 Perry Ellis DS 20/20 H JR 83 Ralph Parmi WR/Dll6-2 195 FR 8H Bobby Brown FL 6-3 194 SR 
STRONG 
SAFETY
89 iohn Day-Owen• TE 6-3 228 FR 84 Jamal Burke WR 6-2 190 FR
25-Drlver
90 Lance LcgrL't' NG 6-1 292 ]R 85 Antonio Garay DL 6-4 265 FR
2-Guilbeeaux
91 Noah Vanllook-DruckcrDE 6-2 245 ]R 86 Bryan Arndt TE 6-4 260 JR 88 Adam Newman LB 6-5 2..16 ]R 92 Adam Tibbie K 5-11 183 FR 
93 II] Scull DE 6-4 282 JR 
89 K.]. Turkson DB 6-0 190 FR
94 Andy Wisne NG 6-3 285 so 9S Ryan Roberts LB 6-1 235 FR 91 Todd McKniff DL 6-4 2..15 FR 92 Adam Grace DL 6-3 272 SO96 Sean M;d\dn DL 6-3 262 FR 97 Kurt Vollers DT 6-7 280 so 

93 Kyle Geiselman S 6-1 220 SR 95 Chris Hovan DL 6-3 28.1 ]R98 Anthony Weaver DL 6-3 249 FR 96 Ryan Burch LB 6-3 246 SO
98 EricGlass DT 6-4 235 JR 97 Pat Kneib DL 6-3 238 SO
99 Jason Ching DE 6-3 280 ]R 98 Mike Willetts DL 6-4 285 ]R 99 Sean Guthrie DL 6-4 241 SO 
I I 
page 6 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 6, 1998 
-·-..... • IRISH INSIGHT 
Eagles vs. Irish, the latest Catholic tradition 
By ALLISON KRILLA to keep Christ in Christmas, or It's a celebration of the tO­Associate Sports Editor attending Mass on a holy day year rivalry between the only of obligation, or even the cele­two Catholic universities with 
Tomorrow we celebrate bration accompanying a sacra­Division 1-A football programs another long-standing Catholic ment (although one team will -Notre Dame and Boston tradition. be receiving last rites tomor­College. 
But it's .not like remembering row afternoon). For the most part, this grid-iron match-up with religious roots has produced Irish victo­ry after Irish victory. Notre Dame holds a 7-2 edge in the series. 

Among those seven Notre Dame wins are a 1992, 47­point thrashing of then-No. 9 Boston College by the Rick Mirer-led Irish at Notre Dame Stadium; a 20-10 victory in 1995 that vaulted the Irish into the top 10; and an emphatic 52-20 win in 1997 that began the team's five­game win streak to end the regular season. 
Some of those seven wins have been impressive and important, while some have held few season-altering impli­cations. 
But all seven of Notre Dame's victories rolled into one hardly compare with the two Boston College triumphs. 
In 1994, the Eagles handed the No. 8 Irish a crushing 30­11 loss in Chestnut Hill. Following an early-season loss to sixth-ranked Michigan, the Irish attempted to regroup, reeling off three straight wins before the trip to Boston. The unranked Eagles' 19-point win started Notre Dame on a downward spiral that resulted in a disappointing 6-5-1 over­all record. 
However, the most devastat­ing defeat by the Eagles came just one year earlier. 
After beginning the 1993 season ranked seventh, the Irish defeated then-No. 3 Michigan 27-23 in Ann Arbor and then-No. 1 ranked Florida State 31-24, to catapult them atop the polls heading into the final regular-season game against the Eagles. 
Without rehashing the gory details, the outcome remains the same-a 41-39 Boston College victory that dashed Notre Dame's national champi­onship hopes. As the last-sec­ond field goal sailed from Dave Gordon's foot through the Notre Dame Stadium uprights, the dreams of an undefeated season sailed right out of reach. 
Fast forward to Nov. 7, 1998, when the 6-1 Irish play the 3­5 Eagles on their home turf. 
Although the undefeated national championship tag doesn't apply, the stakes of this game are nearly as high. 
First, the Eagles have lost five straight games after start­ing the season 3-0; they're frustrated, they're desperate for a win. 
Second, Bob Davie has the Irish on the right track. His commitment to constant improvement and the mix of talent and depth on the roster signal the possibilities for this squad to blossom into one of the nation's very good teams. Maybe the schedule is less than challenging, but the team is winning the games it can. Anyway, we all know that every team treats t~e Notre Dame contest like a personal national championship. 
A win can propel the Irish toward the top 10, and a loss can set them back somewhere near the third game of the season. It's their choice. 
All we know is that Catholics somewhere will be celebrat­ing. 



We wish Coach Davie, His Staff, and the Team success in ~Q[])Q their 1 ' paign! £)(L [i\i]®~l)~ ~!}!}~TILl/}/} Dine-In a at ND Store ~/}l] ~!}~/}~
(1827 Bend Ave.) 
and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 



. 
' I' 
' 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted 
L_------------------------~--~----~--~~----~--~· 
Friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 7 
THE IRISH INSIDER LOOKS AT
EYE ON 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION 
FOOTBALL GAMES 
Cavaliers travel to Seminole country 
By BILL HART 
Assistant Sports Editor 
1\ battln of two /\CC powerhouses high­lights this weekend's college football action, as No. 12 Virginia travels south­ward to takn on No. 6 Florida Statn. 
Tlw Snminolns and the Cavaliers have 
idnntiral 5-1 rneords in ronl'erence play. 
Tlwy also share first place in /\CC stand­
ings with No. 23 Gnorgia Tech in a three-
way lin. · 
Whiln t.his ganw should not determine outright who will win the conference title. it will narrow tlw possible suspncts down to two tPams. 
1:1orida StatP has bonn on a roll lately, rarking up snw'n straight wins af'tnr a 24­7 loss to North Carolina Statn. If not for this dnfnat. tlw Seminoles would likely bP orw ofliw or six tnams in the national.title hunt. 
On thn otlwr end of the ball, Virginia has managed to got back on track aft1~r losing 41-:{S to c;oorgia Tnch on Oct. 17. In last wonk's 3S-17 victory over Wake Forest, tlw Cavalinr defense yieldnd only four rushing YiLrds on 17 attompts. Virginia's own rushing attack, ranked 1Oth in the nation, was lnd by Thomas Jones, who had 142 yards and a touchdown on 24 carrins. 
Km~p an eye out for Snminole running buck Travis Minor, who returned to the linnup last weekend against North Carolina aftp,r missing two games due to an injured ankln. He showed no signs of discomfort last week, rushing for 76 yards and two touchdowns in a 39-13 victory. 
/\lso look out for sophomore quarter­back Chris Weinke, who went 15-27 and had a carnnr high 33R yards against the Tar llllels. 
Thll Cavaliers took a major hit last week when starting free safety Anthony l'oindoxter went down with a torn liga­ment. Originally, doctors believ!ld he could return in time for a bowl game, but the damagn looks to be much more severe. 
For now, Wale Elegbe, a fourth-year junior, will take over the reins at the posi­tion for tho duration of the season. 
Virginia has been able to challenge Florida Statn in recent years but it will be a tall task in Seminole country. 
The Observer/John Dally 
The Wolverines will have their hands full when Penn State comes to Ann Arbor this Saturday. 

their first two to Notre Dame 
TEAM RECORD POINTS 
1. Ohio St. (63) 8-0 1,743 
and Syracuse.
2. Tennesse (3) 7-0 1,642 
In their latest
3. UCLA (1) 7-0 1,601 
victory, they
4. Kansas St. (2) 8-0 1,583 
used a fourth­5. Florida 7-1 1,444 
quarter rally to 6. Florida St. 8-1 1,433 
defeat a sur­prisingly diffi­
7. TexasA&M 8-1 1,280 
cult Minnesota
8. Wisconsin 8-0 1,248 
squad, 15-10.
9. Penn State 6-1 1,208 
In that game,
10. Arizona 8-1 1,120 
Michigan was 11. Arkansas 7-0 1,031 
unable to take 12. Virginia 7-1 958 
the lead for good until line­
13. Notre Dame 6-1 800 
backer James
14. Nebraska 7-2 775 
Hall sacked
15-. Syracuse 5-2 608 
Gopher quar­
15. Tulane 7-0 608 
terback Billy15. Virginia Tech 7-1 608 
Cockerham for 18. Missouri 6-2 578 
a safety with 19. Georgia 6-2 543 
10:42 remain­ing in the
20. Texas 6-2 437 
game. They
21. Oregon 6-2 420 
later added a
22. Michigan 6-2 274 
field goal in the 23. Georgia Tech 6-2 261 
closing min­23. Miami 5-2 182 
utes to end the 25. Air Force 7-1 164 
scoring for both teams. Still, the pesky 
It 

Penn State had two bye weeks in a row going into this game: one on Oct. 24 and one when it hosted Illinois last week. In the 27-0 rout of the Illini, Nittany Lion quarterback Kevin Thompson threw for 269 yards and a touchdown while running back Cordell Mitchell had 50 yards on 15 carries. The team's powerful defensive line did its part as well, recording five 
sacks while posting its first shutout since 1996. 
T h e Wolve-rines won six straight games since losing 


Gopher rushing defense proved to be 
more  than  a  match,  as  they  held  the  
Wolverines  to  an  astonis hing  minus-23  
yards rushing.  

Despite having a lower ranking than Penn State, Michigan actuaUy is higher in the Big Ten standings. The Wolverines have won all five of their conference games to remain in a three-way tie for first place with Wisconsin and Ohio State, while the Lions hold steady in second place with a 3-l Big Ten record. 
This game featums one of the many rivalries in the Big 12: between Missouri and Colorado. Unlike previous years, how­ever, the Tigers are the team with the upper hand in this conference battle. 
No. 22 Missouri barely squeaked out a 28-26 victory over Texas Tech last week­end, and they must look ahead to national powerhouses Nebraska and Kansas State following this matchup. In the win over the Hed Haiders, Texas tech backup quar­terback Matt Tittle engineered a magical comeback that culminated in an eight­yard touchdown with 1:05 left. But on the two-point conversion attempts, Tittle's pass into the right corner of the end zone fell incomplete, preserving the Tiger victo­ry. 
Keep an eye out for Tiger quarterback Corby Jones, whose keen passing ability has made the Tigers one of the biggest surprises in college football. Despite Jones' highly valued arm, however, the Tigers are ranked 108th in passing offense out of 112 Division I-A teams. 
After being ranked 24th in the AP poll last week, Colorado dropped out of the standings following Texas' win over Nebraska. Not only did the Buffaloes lose two weeks ago to Kansas 33-17, but they also were on a bye week when they were knocked out of the rankings. If anything, the week off gave the team a chance to heal, with no less than five starters look­ing to recover from injuries in time for this weekend's game. 
Despite the fine conference records for both squads (4-1 for MU, 3-2 for CU) nei­ther team is a threat for the Big 12 title as long as Kansas State is still in business. 
', 
...-­
-
-. 


,-----­
page 8 The Observer ·IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 6, 1998 
-.... 
THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
THE EAGLES OF 
I .,... 
BOSTON COLLEGE 
Photos by John Daily, Bret Hogan and Jeff Hsu 
I• 
i 
' -. 


