
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No.Jl6 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Irish symposium addresses 1798 rebellion 
1798-1998: The Great Irish Rebellion 
Tuesday, March 
Louis Cullen, Trinity "'"'""'l'"• L"'"'" 
The PolitiC!/ ofCrisix and ReA;eJlion 
Concurrent Sessions l,ll, 
Times, Placd.and Toplc!i Y~!)':·: 
Plenary Address :<o 
Seamus Deane, Universitjt·of·No~e 
Edmund Burke and Ireland 
Reception hosted by the Irish gov~~rtfhent 
The Qh,crvcr/Mallhcw L11u •hnm & Rnu.l Prcmkl •a'l 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST 
Senior Staff Writer 
Combining political history, historical portraits and literary traditions, Notre Dame's interna­tional conference commemorat­ing the bicentennial of the 1798 Irish rebellion kicked off yester­day at the Center for Continuing Education. 
The conference, a three-day discussion of the rebellion that killed 30,000 people in three months of violence, includes the presentation of papers by some of the most renowned Irish histo­rians in the world. 
A formative event in Irish his­tory, the 1798 rebellion was also one of the bloodiest. Of the 30,000 dead, 20,000 of that number were killed in one month in County Wexford. 
Although the rebellion was short-lived, its legacies were long-lasting, scholars have said. From the rebellion came the Act of Union in 1801, which created the United Kingdom, and a pat-

• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCil 
CLC restr~ctures membership 
•
ru Ion 
oi()'cks Cllot access t i.pi~Qn, lvy Roads 
scheduled to take effect tomorrow. weather will until the end ofthesummer, 
···~~· EdisonJlQad or State Road 
@available. ·· hielude taking Eddy to Jo.niper, Eddy to 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
The Campus Life Council voted to eliminate three Student Senator positions from the coun­cil and give those positions to other student organizations in its final meeting under the Griffen-Nass administration last night. 
The council consists of 18 members. Six rec­tors, two faculty members and the assistant vice president of student affairs sit on the coun­
cil. The remaining nine members of the council have, this year. consisted of Student Senators. 
The Ball Presidents' Council and Student Union Board will take the vacant seats in next year's council if the current revisions to the CLC bylaws survive after student body presi­dent-elect Peter Cesaro takes over chairman­ship of the council on Monday. 
But the most controversial position was given to an elected student member of the Office of Multicultural Affairs. 
"Adding an OMSA representative to the CLC would be a major step in addressing potential problems in an affirmative and proactive, rather than reactive manner," Matt Szabo, sen­ator from Morrissey Hall, said. 
The main objection to the appointment of a member of OMSA came from Ava Preacher, associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
"If we have to appoint a member of the Office of Multicultural Affairs to the council in order to make it more representative, then we have to open it to gay and lesbian students and to older students," she said. "I look around here and see no representatives of the older student community. With the turnover rate among the 
see CLC I page 4 
tern of sectarian violence that continues today. 
But before discussing the rebellion's ramifications, several scholars yesterday focused on the events prior to the rebellion. 
Nancy Curtin, a professor at Fordham University, noted that the local magistrates in the northern region of Ulster were ineffective in quelling the United Irishmen's notions of rebelling against the government in the years before 1798. 
Rather, martial law overshad­owed the local justices of the peace in subduing potential rebellions, Curtin said. 
"Draconian measures were enacted because of a failure by traditional processes to arrest the republican mobilization," she said. "The [traditional system of law and order] was unable to counter the mass movement of the United Irishmen." 
The failure of the magistrates to maintain order resulted pri­marily from a lack of numbers, she said. In one region, for example, 85 magistrates were headquartered where about 50,000 United Irishmen lived. 
Prior to Curtin's talk, Thomas Graham, founder and editor of the journal "History Ireland," detailed the shift in the United Irishmen's center of power dur­ing the 1790s. 
"Dublin and Belfast were the two centers of motion of the United Irishmen," Graham said. "And continuing with the metaphor of motion, the rela­tionship between the two oscil­lated over the course of the 1790s." 
In the early years of the decade, Belfast served as the pri­mary hub of the United Irishmen. But as the members in Dublin strengthened their orga­nization by modeling it after Belfast's structure, Dublin grew in importance, Graham said. 
When the United Irishmen realized that any insurrection would have to occur without the 
see IRISH I page 4 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Breaking with 
tradition 
Last night marked th the end of a tradition. Colleen McCar Y For the first time, I Saint Mary's News Editor watched the NCM basketball championship game without my dad. and this was truly painful. As I talked to my dad bnfore tip-oil', reality set in; in fact. the whole month of March since the tournament commenced and the seedings of the teams were announced has forced me to face the reality that college is forcing me to move on and break with tradition. My dad has instilled the love of basketball, particularly college basketball, in me. It all began when I was in fifth grade and asked my dad to explain to me the "March Madness" phenomenon that everyone seemed to be talk­ing about. Together, we looked at the seedings of the teams in the newspaper and filled in the brackets with the teams we thought would win. Suddenly, the onslaught of college basket­ball games on TV in March became very sig­nificant. A tradition was born. For eight years, my dad and I eagerly anticipated the approaching of the month of March. As I began to learn more about basketball, my dad and I took part in an NCAA tourna­ment pool and made our choices together. Tognther, we would research the teams in the tournament in hope of predicting who would make it to the Final Four and which team would eventually be the champion. We were always in search of our "Cinderella" team for that particular year. We met this task with mixed success. There were a few years that we did fairly well with our predictions. For example, there was the year when we picked Syracuse to go to the Final Four and we ended up winning the pool because we were the only ones to realize the talent that Syracuse had that year. I didn't always agree with my dad on which teams would advance to the Final Four. The year that stands out is when he decided that we had to pick the team with Bryant "Big Country" Beeves to go to the Final Four because my dad had a "gut" feeling about his abilities. I was ridiculed by the guys at school because of this choice. My response to the boys was, "My dad is paying for the pool so I had to give him some say in the matter." Much to my suprise, Beeves helped lead his team to the Final Four that year and I was forced to admit that my dad had been right and maybe he did know something about col­lege basketball. The love of college basketball led to an interest in the NBA. For two years, my dad and I had season tickets for the Milwaukee Bucks. Together. we sufl'ered through their losing seasons but still attended every game. Last night as I watched the game, I thought back to all the great moments and games my dad and I witnessed these past years. Visions of the Fab Five from the University of Michigan. Bryant "Big Country" Reeves, and Chris Weber calling for a time-out that lost the game for Michigan ran through my mind. I missed watching the games with my dad and yelling at the TV when a referee made a bad call or cheering when our team was winning. As I thought about all these times, I realized that it was more than just the basketball that I loved about thll month of March. I loved the bond that March Madness created between my dad and I. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• ToDAv's STAFF 
News  Scene  
Bill Uniowski  Krisri Klirsch  
Colleen McCarthy  Janice Weiers  
Anne Hosinski  Graphics  
Sports  Melissa Weber  
Shannon Ryan  Production  
Viewpoint  Bersy Baker  
Mary Margarer Nussbaum  
Lab Tech  
Parrick Quigley  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cx.ccpt during cx~m and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of thC' Associated Pre~. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeatherfJ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
L 
Tuesdaylf­ ----·  ·:<:  
~­ 5~  
Wednesday  ~  53  49  
'''''  
Thursday  ~  '58  39  
I  
\ Friday)  ~r57  40  
,>. Saturday  d  60  40  

(_jV\.: . . , f,)\ 
4,rQ,~p'@Q :t) ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloud' Via Associated Press Graph~esNet 
Tuesday, March 31, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 
~-~/ ..

~~·-f\Putstde. the Dome 
V · Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Police institute 'Party Patrols' to curb underage drinking 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. music, houses or apartments 
IU's Little 500 races are a month extremely filled with people, crowds away, but Bloomington police aren't on porches or lawns, and individuals waiting for race weekend to crack who appear to be younger than 21. down on underage drinking. Once a party has been targeted as 
For the fourth consecutive year, a disturbance. oflic11rs approach and the Bloomington police have institut­require everyone in attendance to ed "Party Patrols" for the weekends produce identification. Underage before the Little 500. Up to and drinkers are issued citations for ille­including race weekend April 24 and gal consumption. Hesidents are 25, the patrols will be on guard charged with furnishing alcohol to Friday and Saturday evenings "We're basically trying to get peo­minors and arc often taken to jail. If between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. juveniles under the age of 18 are dis­
ple's attention leading up to Little Party Patrols for this year began covered, an additional charge for
500 that when you're hosting parties Friday and Saturday. The patrols {or) going to parties to be responsi­contributing to the· delinquency of a made 117 arrests in two days -66 minor is issued. Overtly intoxicated
ble," he said. "We're trying to let Friday night and 51 Saturday or combative individuals are charged
people know they'll be subject to evening, according to police reports. with resisting arrest.
penalties if they're at parties that get Officers volunteering for overtime Arrest11d individuals are required
out of hand." shifts make up the patrols. Officers on the patrols wear plain to appear before a judge at the earli­Boisterous parties with underage est available court date. For people
clothes and drive unmarked cars. individuals in attendance are the arrested on weekends, this usually
They search primarily for parties most likely to be collared, that create a disturbance or receive means an appearance at 2:30 p.m. Bloomington police Lt. Jimmy Monday.
complaints. They look for loud 

• UNIVERSITY OF MARYlAND • UNiVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Man with knife carjacks shuttlebus Minnesota passes press shield law 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 

A man carjacked a UM shuttle bus Friday evening and Legislators took steps last week to strengthen laws pro­ordered the driver to go to Washington, Metropolitan police tecting journalists and their unpublished materials from the said. The man ordered the driver to let him off the bus at the courts, a move partially provoked by a high-profile lawsuit 300 block of Longfellow Street NW, and was caught an hour against The Minnesota Daily live years ago. I louse members later. David Farmer, 43, faces federal interstate armed car­overwhelmingly passed the press shield law, oflicially called jacking charges. Anthony Paci, a Metropolitan police investi­the Free Flow of Information Act, with a 123-6 vote on gator, said Farmer faces federal charges because hll crossed Thursday. The Senate companion bill passed unanimously state lines. Farmer is in jail in Washington and will be in the beginning of the month. The press shield bill clarifies arraigned by a federal judge today. University police have current law, established in 1973, allowing journalists to filed armed carjacking and kidnapping charges against keep unpublished notes, negatives and tapes confidential Farmer, said university police spokeswoman Cpl. Mary and safe from court subpoenas. The bill's passage will help Brock. She said they sent the charges to Metropolitan police the media collect and disseminate information, which will during the weekend, but did not know yesterday if Farmer ultimately benefit the public, said Mark Anfinson, a lawyer had been served with the charges. Farmer boarded the for the university. Bep. Matt ·Entenza, DFL-St. Paul, who shuttle bus in front of the union at about 6:15p.m., a univer­authored the House bill, said the County Attorney's Oflice sity police release said. After all the passengers got off the was initially concerned it would inhibit casework. but now it bus, the release said Farmer approaclwd the driver, pulled a does not oppose his bill. Now that the bill passed in both knife and ordered her to drive to Washington. chambers, it is waiting for Gov. Arne Carlson's signature. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY • IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Harvard president visits China Meningitis epidemic raises concerns 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. AMES, Iowa 

Now in the middle of a historic swing through East Asia, An epidemic spreading across many college c:ampuses President Neil Rudenstine last week became the first sitting recently has caused concerns at Iowa State and campuses Harvard president to visit China, meeting with Chinese nationwide. According to the American College Health President Jiang Zemin and speaking to a standing-room­Association {ACIIA), meningococcal meningitis kills about only crowd at Peking University. Rudenstine met with Jiang 300 people a year. The disease causes permanent hearing at the Chinese central governmental headquarters last loss, seizures and mental or behavioral diseases in one Tuesday. During their hour-long discussion, Jiang and third to half of the 2,600 people who are infected eaeh year. Budenstine focused on promoting more academic exchange Like on other campuses, stud11nts at ISU are affected by between Harvard and the Chinese people, both in terms of special risk factors that increase tim spread of the disease. shared ideas and visiting students. Other topics of diseus­Students housed in tight dormitories, as well as studnnts sion included the rapid economic growth of China, Chinese who smoke, drink and attend bars are morn susceptible to literature and culture, American history and Americanized meningitis. Stress caused by frequent laek of slnep also con­pop culture. Jiang also reminisced during the meeting tributes to acquiring the disease. Peak times to contract about his Nov. 1 visit to Harvard and his speech at Sanders meningitis include a two-w11ek period following an outbreak Theatre, remarking that his visit reinforced in his mind the of inlluenza, said Patricia Quinlisk, state epidemiologist for importance of the exchange of ideas between countries. the Iowa Department of Public Health. 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 31. 
50s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 
~ ...&...&.. ........a.r 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWaalher, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T...STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY \114 A.swcialed Press 
Atlanta  84  58  Fargo  38  3t  New Orleans 80  67  
Baltimore  84  62  Honolulu  82  72  Philadelphia 83  6t  
Boston  80  78  Hutchinson  66  40  Phoenix  56  42  
Charlotte  84  54  Miami  82  75  Seattle  54  41  
Dallas  82  55  Nashville  81  65  Syracuse  77  57  


-------~--~ 
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Circle K receives 'club of year' award 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY Assistant News Editor 
The Notre Dame Chapter of Circle_ K International is not only the largest in the world, but also one of the most active and successful, representatives learned last weekend when the club received numerous awards. including Club of the Yfmr. 
"The Club of the Year Award is given to the club with the greatest membership, growth, service, fundraising, and best relationships with other clubs," explained organization presi­dent Mike Lewis. 
The club's 131 dues-paying members -a number up from 108 and 116 in the previous two semesters. according to Lewis -and nearly 220 non­member participants completed more than 2000 hours of volun­teer work as part of more than 25 different projects last semes­ter. according to a statement from Becky Christensen, the These awards are given to officers who Sophomore Jesus Morales was elected to group's publicity chair. 
best help their chapters to achieve the the position of North Division Lieutenant 
The club's efforts also merited the 
qualities of a Club of the Year winner in Governor. The primary responsibility of Outstanding Single Service Project Award their respective areas. Lewis attributes . this position is to provide a communica­for its Family Living Project at the Grace the success of the club as a whole to its tion link between the state board of the 
Community Center, organized by vice 
board members. organization and division chapters.president of service Becky Greco. 
"We've had a tremendous board of offi­Other awards won by the club include a "We have three or four times a week we cers this year and they all deserve credit second-place Paperless Communication teach practical life skills classes like con­for our being the biggest and best Circle K Award, given to the club who best pro­flict resolution ... [we] tutor and play with in the world," he said. tects the environment by employing
the kids, and provide an anti-drinking, 
Becky Christensen, a four-year member, paperless forms of communication (Circleanti-drug message," Lewis said. "Without earned the Outstanding Member Award K uses silent messages and email} and 
the Notre Dame club involvement. the after being nominated by fellow club Outstanding New Member, awarded to 
Grace Community Center wouldn't have member Brian Cullen, who filled out an freshman Michelle Nitti. 
kids going to it anymore." 
application detailing her involvement with Circle K International is affiliated with Board members Becky Greco and Mike the club throughout her membership. the Kiwanis club, which also supports the Hutchinson, both sophomores, received ''I'm very excited and proud to have won Key Club in high schools. Meetings are 
awards for Outstanding Club Vice 
the award. It was a surprise," she com­held every Sunday in 127 Nieuwland at President and Treasurer. respectively. 
mented. 6:30p.m. 
Oelfi,J,e~tirj Tk &f!!?__t f1zza..1 
l13®ffi~ ~eLl® ®0®®~ l1rn®8(j]ffi~9 



Anytime

Anytime you call betweenyou call between 
10:30 -12:59,5:30 & 7:00, 

the price of your the price of your 

2 large 1 topping pizzas 

large 1 topping pizza 
is the time you call.

is the time you call. 
* Plus tax­* Plus tax 

ND store 
Open for lunch everyday
271-1177 
Drive-In and Delivery Visa/Mastercard

Saint Mary's/ 

Accepted 
North Village Mall 
271-PAPA 

R
ebecca Greco (left), vice president of service for the Notre Dame Circle K, receives the Service Recognition Award for logging over 250 service hours. Cathy Linter, Circle K International trustee, pre­
sented the certificate. 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 31, 1998 
Professor elected president of decision group 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Wrirer 
Lee Krajewski. the William H. and F. Cassie Daley Professor of Manufaeturing Strategy, is a happy man. lie has been nlected president of Decision Sciences International IDSII and is proud to take over the position. 
"I feel honored that my eolleagues would think that highly of me to be pres­ident," Krajewski said. 
DSI is an institution of "academies professionals." said Krajnwski, "who are 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
members of this couneil we also would have to open it up to the Club Coordination Council and SUB." 
Szabo responded that the recent listening sessions held by the University committee on relationships have shown a need to increase the number of students of color on cam­pus. 
"In Malloy's statements he never said that we want more gays on campus, never said that we want more old peo­ple," Szabo said. "He did say that we want more diversity on this campus." 
At one point in the meeting, senator A.J. Boyd yielded some of his time to represen­tatives from the Coalition Council that were in atten­dance. 
"I think that this discussion is indicative of why it is neces­sary that the Coalition Council be represented on this body," said Qiana Lillard, 1997 presi­dent of the Notre Dame chap­ter of the NAACP. "The mem­bers of the Coalition Council are elected by their constitu­tencies and any student can become a member of these dubs. Any student can be part of the NAACP or La Alianza. So the representatives on the Coalition Council are elected representation for everyone that is concerned with diversi­ty on campus." 
John Fernandez, president of LaAlianza, echoed Lillard sentiments. 
"Earlier in this meeting you ended discussion on a resolu­tion," he said. "That was a lot of work for Brandon [Williams, head of the diversi­ty committee, whose resolu­tion about a Freshman Orientation diversity presenta­tion was discussed earlier in the meeting! to go back and forth between this body and Iris Outlaw. Basically you were saying that we don't care about this." 
A student member of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs will be elected by the Coalition Council every year to interested in decision-making in busi­ness." It is a group of more than 3,500 researchers, managers, educators and students in 32 countries. 
The organization emphasizes the importance of business, both interna­tional and domestic, through programs and activities, such as the upcoming 1999 summer conference, which Krajewski said will be held in Greece. 
Krajewski, who holds a bachelor's degree in mathematics and master's and doctoral degrees in production manage­ment from the University of Wisconsin, has been a fellow of DSI since 1988 and has served as editor-in-chief of the group's journal since 1993. 
As president of the group. some of Krajewski's responsibilities will include finding ehairs for the establishment's subcommittees, as well as setting up agendas for the committees' goals for the year. 
Krajewski will serve as president-elect of DSI beginning tomorrow. After a year, he will assume the presidency for a one­year term. For this duration, he will maintain his regular teaching schedule with additional traveling to conferences and DSI-related meetings. 
"''ll be working hard to maintain the quality of the organization," said Krajewski, who is anxious to assume his presidency of what he describes as "a constant thing you're involved in for three years." 
Krajewski, who was appointed to the Daley chair in 1995, conducts rosearch in many aspects of manufacturing and business, such as the design of multi­stage manufacturing systems and manu­facturing strategy. lie is the co-author of two textbooks and has published numer­ous artides in manufacturing and busi­ness journals. 

serve as the official represen­tative to the council, according to the amendment. 
Dillon Hall Student Senator Pat Coyle argued that the council was necessarily repre­sentative without the OMSA member. 
"I think that it is a good idea in theory," he said. "But, by proposing this we are assum­ing that we cannot look out for the rights of people of the OMSA. These students can run for senator and need to know that they can use their sena­
tors  as  their voice  to  this  
council."  
The  proponents  of  the  

amendment argued that if the council planned on including the SUB Manager, who they consider to be an expert on the subject of programming, that the OMSA student should be included as an expert on the subject of diversity. 
"I agree with [Coyle's) point," said Father David Scheidler, rector of St. Edwards Hall. "But I can't see any kind of logic thaht would include the SUB person who is elected through some dubious means and not include an elected person of color. It doesn't sit well that we cannot substantiate the reasons." 
Szabo's amendment passed the couneil by a vote of 10 to three. 
The council then passed the amended bylaws to the consti­tution and ended the meeting tabling all other resolutions to be handled by the new council under the leadership of Peter Cesearo which will meet next week. 
In other CLC news: 
• Williams, the Zahm Hall senator, presented a resolu­tion asking that vice president of Student Affairs Professor Patricia O'Hara implement a diversity program during Freshman Orientation. The resolution met with debate from both sides of the table. 
"I don't see how we need a resolution about this," said Preacher. "We just need to get 
251-0674 
.MATlJBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
Lunch It JMon-Hun•lluuwrfl uMon-SnllfHO 1<'11 & Sat 
*The Most Affordahle Student Housing * 

One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
•
Furnished/central air •Flexible · 

• 
All utilities included 

• 
Indoor pool/spa 

•Tennis, 
volleyball, & basketball courts 



the people involved in Freshman Orientation togeth­er to talk about this." 
Between second-hand accounts of conversations with Dean Eileen Kolman of Freshman Year of Studies which were relayed by Preaeher and Father Bill Seetch, rector of Morrisey Hall, the council decided to suspend discussion on this resolution until all the involved parties could be con­tacted. 
• Keough senator A.J. Boyd moved to have the Student Union Board Manager removed as a member of the upcoming CLC and replaced with a Student Senator. 
"It doesn't seem fair to include a programming body like the Student Union Board in the face of a well-written and reasoned argument from the Club Coordination Council as to why they should be allowed to be included instead," he said. 
Boyd's motion was voted down. 
• 
Seetch's resolution on the duration of rector placement in a particular dorm was held back for debate at a rector's meetiong later this week. 

• 
The resolution presented last week about alcohol awareness was tabled until next week's new CLC. 


Irish 
continued from page 1 
support of France -a possibili­ty until then -Dublin, as the capital city, took the central role, he said. 
"[Belfast] became increasingly peripheral," he said. "The hard­pressed northerners accused Dublin of cowardice for not com­mencing the insurrection, and the organizations grew effective­ly separate." 
Graham also noted that the organization often referred to a national body of leadership, even when none existed, as a propaganda device. 
Fintan Cullen discussed anoth­er aspect of propaganda during his presentation on portraits of Irish political figures of the 1790s. 
The portraits were significant tools of propaganda used by pro-unionists and anti-unionists, according to Cullen, a lecturer in art history at the University of Nottingham. 
Artwork of the era often showed men, such as Lord Edward Fitzgerald, wearing green jackets, with the color emblematic of the United Irishmen's national cause. Some portraits also showed Fitzgerald wearing red neckwear, which indicated to some an allegiance to the French. Cullen said. 
Battle scenes of the age were often a colleetion of individual portraits, Cullen said, some of whom were wearing knots of green ribbon. The political mes­sage of the painting was some­times stressed by the placement of a dead captain in a eentral area of the painting, he added. 
"Portraits were clearly seen as potential agents for dissmnina­tion of points of view," Cullen said. 
Earlier in the day, Luke Gibbons, from Dublin City University, delivered a paper on "Radical Romanticism: Wolfe Tone and the O'Carolan Connection"; and Mary Helen Thuente, who chairs the English department at Indiana University-Purdue University in Fort Wayne, discussed "United Irish Literary Nationalism." 
The conference, cosponsored by Notre Dame's Keough Institute for Irish Studies and the government of Ireland, will continue through Wednesday. Today's session. which runs from 9 a.m. to 3:30 p.m., will include papers from Notre Dame professors Kevin Whelan and Jim Smyth. 
All sessions of the conference, which is free and open to the public, take place in the Center for Continuing Education. 

The College of Arts and Letters is seeking nominations for the Father Sheedy Award. 
The Sheedy award, named for a former dean of the College of Arts and Letters, is presented annually to a member of the Arts and Letters faculty for excellence in teaching. 
Both students and faculty are invited to submit nominations and should do so in writing: Dian Murray, Associate Dean 101 O'Shaugnessy Hall 
by Thursday, April 9, 1998 

SLeedy J\'W'ard 

Tuesday, March 31, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS Plastic dollar bills considered 
WASHINGTON 
The familiar phrase "paying with plastic" may take on an entirely new meaning. The government is testing new materials for the nation's folding money-including a tough but flexible plastic. Advocates say plastic, or polymer, bills last longer than paper, are more diflicult to counterfeit and don't get all wrinkly if you accidentally leave them in your jeans on washing day. They're less prone to rejection by change machines and, when worn out, can be recycled into other plastic products. Skeptics worry the public would reject them, that they would force an expen­sive retooling of currency-sorting and count­ing machines and that such a radical change could subtly undermine confidence in the U.S. dollar. 
Israeli Prime Minister to march at Auschwitz 
JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister Ben­jamin Netanyahu will take part in an annual march at the site of the notorious Nazi death camp at Auschwitz. Poland, Israel army radio said Monday. The prime minister's oflice said Netanyahu was 

expected to take part in the Netanyahu March of the Living, though his participation has not been officially con­firmed. The march is held on Holocaust Memorial Day, when Israelis remember the six million Jewish victims of the Nazi Holocaust. This year, the commemoration falls on April 23. At the ceremony, Jews from all over the world march from the gates of Auschwitz to gas chambers where camp inmates were murdered. 
2000 census not ready for internet responses 
WASHINGTON 
The Census Bureau, which pioneered development of modern computers, has decided it isn't ready to let people use them to respond to its national head count via the internet. It was at the Census Bureau that lierman Hollerith developed the punch card system and the first suc­cessful computer, used to help tabulate the 1890 count. And the agency provides much of its data to users electronically. But offi­cials say security concerns prompted their decision not to have people send in t.heir forms via the Internet. "Any perception of a security problem is likely to have the Americans ... reduce their response rate. It's a big issue." said Judith Waldrop, a Census Bureau official. 
Nasdaq:

-13.96 
1818.70 


-4.92 
NYSE: 568.89 -0.91 
S&P 500: 
1093.55

8827.96 
-1.83 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
S:OMI!ot'H:ll);:  IIS:I:H~B  0{'1 CUAI:li~E  i~AII:!i  I!BICE  
CONNECT INC  CNKT  72.22  0.813  1.94 Clark. 
KOO KOO ROO INC  KKRO  71.86  1.440  3.44  
M-SYSTEMS FLASH  FLSHF  39.25  2.280  8.09  
NAPRO BIOTHERAP  NPRO  37.93  0.687  2.50  
SFX BROADCAST  SFXBW  33.77  4.810  19.00  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
PERITUS SOFTWAI~E PTUS 35.36 3.060 5.59 GEN EMPLOY JOB 25.22 3.650 10.79 WORLDWIDE ENT WWES 20.80 0.590 2.25 RCMTECH RCMTZ 20.83 0.62.'i 2.37 AMER SAFETY RAZOR RAZR 20.77 4.750 18.10 
L_------------------------------~~-----­
Court weighs HIV disability law 


ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
In a major test of disability rights, Supreme Court justices spttrred Monday over whether HIV-infected people should be considered disabled because of dangers involved in sex and childbearing. 
The lawyer for Maine dentist Randon Bragdon argued that Bragdon did not illegally discriminate against an HIV­infected woman by refusing to treat her at his oflice. 
The patient, Sidney Abbott, suffers no AIDS symptoms and therefore is not protected by the Americans With Disabilities Act, said attorney John McCarthy. 
But Ms. Abbott's lawyer said lower courts correctly found that Bragdon violated the law, which bars discrimi­nation against the disabled in jobs, housing and public accommodations. 
The law -responsible for such aids as wheelchair ramps at countless pub­lic places -says people are disabled if they have a physical or mental impair­ment that "substantially limits one or more major life activities." 
HIV-infected people should always be considered disabled because the conta­gious and fatal nature of acquired immune deficiency syndrome severely limits their ability to have sex and bear children, said Ms. Abbott's attorney, Bennett klein. Some justices disputed whether HIV infection really creates such a limit. 
Justices David Souter and Antonin Scalia suggested an HIV-infected per­son faces a "moral choice" rather than an actual physical limit on his ability to have children. 
'Tm not sure that's what the statute is talking about," Souter said. 
However, Justice Anthony Kennedy said that if a person with highly infec­tious tuberculosis stays away from other people, "we don't just call it a moral choice." 
Someone with bubonic plague would be considered disabled, added Justice Stephen Breyer. 
Bragdon's lawyer said the disability law aims to protect people whose dis­abilities affect their "day-to-day inde­pendent living and economic self-suffi­ciency," not HIV-infected people who 
AFP Photo 
D
r. Randon Bragdon speaks to reporters yesterday outside of the Supreme Court in Washington, DC. The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether or not Dr. Bragdon violated the rights of an HIV infected woman when he refused to treat her in his office, but offered to see her instead at a hospital. 
suffer no symptoms. 
The disability-rights law says dis­abled people can be treated differently if they pose a "direct threat to the health or safety of others." 
"Dr. Bragdon believes that when he provides a service in the face of the risk of death he should be allowed to take additional precautions" such as insisting on filling Ms. Abbott's cavity at a hospital, McCarthy said. 
However, Breyer said that "after 15 years and hundreds of thousands of deaths" from AIDS there appeared to be no documented cases in which a dentist caught the virus from a patient. 
"How can we say here that your client exercised reasonable medical 

•.uu;u.n.o•» and 
said she wan remembered motfit:JF, and got 
t way-----· 
_ berM~.·: mys(et'y by Mary·~-Ulf>l!)"'·" · "SI:l'~ing the that's 
judgment?" Breyer asked. McCarthy replied that there were seven possible cases of HIV transmission in dental procedures. 
Klein said that unless HIV-infected people have clear protections under the law, many will hide the fact that they carry the virus. 
The court never has decided a case involving an HIV-related issue or the disability-bias law, signed in 1990 by President Bush. 
A decision is expected by July. The justices' ruling could provide clues as to whether the law covers other kinds of disabilities, such as cases of epilepsy or diabetes that are controlled by med­ication. 
ow'.kille 

-r----------_.... ----­
~--~ -~ 
page 6 Tuesday, March 31, 19~8
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
+Campus· Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF 

CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basillca Offices: 631-8463 
Tuesday, March 31, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Catnpus Bible Study 
Wednesday, April 1, 7:30-8:00 pm, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Interfaith Contetnporary Prayer 
Music: Contemporary Choir 
Morrisey Manor Chapel, 7:00 -8:30 pm 
KEEPING THE FAITH, 1998: Three Nights, Four Loves 
• I 

Part II -Thursday, April 2: LOVE: It Had to be You Love that creates the bond that is family. Presneters: Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. 
NO Faculty and Staff Music: Voices of Faith 
Part III-Monday, April6: LOVE: I'll Be There For You Love that brings together man and woman. Presenters: Rev. Michael Baxter, C.S.C. 
Department of Theology Faculty and Students Music: Contemporary Choir 
Fridays durin2 Lent, 7:15 pn1, Basilica of the Sacred l-Ieart 
Stations of the Cross 
April3 Women's Choir April tO Folk Choir 
Sunday, AprilS, 1:30pm, Keenan-Standord Chapel 
Misa de Do111ingo De Ra111o.s Palin Sunday Mass 
Celebrant: Padre Patrick Neary, C.S.C. Weather permitting, the procession will begin at the War Momorial. In case of inclement weather, we will begin Mass at Keenan-Stanford Chapel. 
Sunday, AprilS, 4:00pm, Sorin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 
Celebrant: Rev. Edward A. Malloy, CSC Music: Rejoice! Black Catholic Choir 
Tuesday. April7, 7:00pm, Grotto 
Campus Wide Candlelight Stati~Jll of the Cross 
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page7 
Sorin Society names Conlon to chair professorship 
Special to The Observer It was established in 1976 and, with more than 7,000 mem­
Edward Conlon, chair and bers, is the flagship of the professor of management at University's Annual Fund. The the University of Notre Dame, society's Founder's Circle, for has been appointed to a new contributors of $3,000 or more chaired pro­per year, was introduced in fessorship 1991 and has almost 1,300 funded by members. t h e Unlike most chaired faculty University's positions, which are funded by Edward earnings from an endowment, Frederick the Sorin Society Professorship S o r i n will be funded by a portion of Society. the society's revenues, accord­according to Conlon ing to Cathleen Black, presi­Nathan dent of Hearst Magazines, Hatch, Notre Dame's provost. University trustee and chair­
Named for Notre Dame's person of the society. 
founder, tho Sorin Society is "This new chair serves as a made up of alumni and other symbol exemplifying the vision benefactors who contribute and ideals of Father Sorin as $1,000 or more annually to the well as the society's own com­University in unrestricted gifts. mitment to the University's 
Tobacco industry shuns proposed bill 
Associated Press ·tile$ Could Win .a publiC ... tions war aga~nst t .lL .... WASHINGTON Besid e said, the Issue is 
Ogarette makers would get fluid. ..· ...······ orne ~J;Jacco the protection ofa $6.5billion <tive dr~ps de~~ ~~l'ri annual limit on damage pay~ that may change the equa~ ments but large classes of tion." · · ····• plaintiffs would still be able to Sen. John Chafee, ijH~;J.:; .. · sue under the leading tobacco shared that sentifuent. ·..·.·. ·· .·· ··· 
bill that has started itsjourney "If we get into a game of through Congress. hardball with the ind 
The industry called the com" industrfiS gomgio l promise measure, apparently Chafee, who co-at.tth supported by a majority of with siqlilar leg~l shi Democrats and Repuhli¢ans Sens. on the Senate Commerce >and ~ r Committee. an act · of the Congress g~t.S its Kvengeance" and threatened ;;\i..thenfs.!\W ·. · to withhold its cooperation· in Jtthat d steering advertising away Me · from kids. . ing majority of~th 
"This is a putiltive and unre-the conunittee:s alistic assault on the industry, the millions of peoplf.l who work in it and with it, and the millions of American. adults who use its products," indus­try representative J. Phil Carlton complained during a conference t.:all With reporters. "The industry can· not and will not give its assent to it." 
Former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop called the. hill a sellout .to the. industry;.The American Lung Assoct~:ttion " said it was unacceptable. 
Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., chairman of the Corttmerce Committee, acknowledged Monday that the provisions requiring cigarette m~~~rs t~ steer advertising away from kids could be meaningless if challenged or ignored by the industry, but said he puts little credence in threats from tobacco executives. 
"I can't and will never be subject to a veto by the tobac­co industry." McCain said, adding that he doubts compa-
Moreau Center­little Theatre 
Thursday-Saturday, April2-4 • 8 p.m. Sunday, April 5 • 2:30 p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday -Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
IM~l;~ THE ARTS ~NOTRE DAilE, IN 
mission of teaching and research," Black said. "Because of the strength and the growth of membership over the last year, the society is able to underwrite this new pro­gram while sustaining all cur­rent programs at their present levels." 
Conlon joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1992 after pre­viously teaching and conduct­ing research at the University of Iowa and the Georgia Institute of Technology. He earned a bachelor's degree in psychology from Pennsylvania State University in 1972 and master's and doctoral dbgrees in organizational behavior from Carnegie Mellon University in 1975 and 1977, respectively. 
"Ed Conlon has developed a 


Prejean to speak in Keenan Hall 
Special to The Observer when she was 18 and traces a correspondence with Elmo 
her involvement in the issue of Patrick Sonnier, a 27 -year-old 

Notre Dame Laetare medalist capital punishment to her reli­death row resident convicted Sister Helen Prejean, death gious community's formal in the brutal murder of a teen­penalty abolitionist and author pledge, made public in 1980, age couple. of the book "Dead Man to "stand on the side of the As the date for Sonnier's Walking," on which the recent poor." execution approached, she award-winning film was based, Sister Prejean moved with a became his close friend and will speak about her 
spiritual counselor, life and work at a eventually witnessing brown bag lunch in 'THE MOST PROFOUND his electrocution. the Keenan Commons, Since then she has in the basement of MORAL QUESTION OF OUR accompanied several Keenan Hall, at 1 p.m. VIOLENT SOCIETY IS NOT WHAT men to the electric Thursday. chair as a spiritual
Sister Prejean has TO DO WITH THE INNOCENT, BUT 
counselor and wit­visited Notre Dame WHAT TO DO ABOUT THE nessed their deaths. 
twice before, four 
years ago, also as a GUILTY.' guest of Keenan Hall, and two years ago to receive the 1996 Laetare Medal, the University's highest honor. 
A native of Baton Rouge, La., Sister Prejean has lived and worked in Louisiana all her life. She joined the Sisters of St. Joseph of Medaille in 1957 well-deserved national reputa­tion for scholarly excellence," Hatch said. "His contributions in his fields of study and to Notre Dame make him an ideal candidate for the University's newest chaired professorship." 
Conlon specializes in the study of organizational behav­ior, organizational design, deci­sion making, and conflict man­agement. 
His current research focuses on four questions: What factors other than direct incentives cause employees to engage in activities outside the scope of their jobs that benefit employ­ers? How is initial product quality related to long-term product quality? How can employers best motivate groups through providing per­formance feedback? How do 
small group of other sisters in 1981 to the St. Thomas hous­ing project in New Orleans, where she began teaching high school dropouts. 
The following year, at the request of a friend, she began principals and agents negotiate compensation contracts? 
A study by Conlon and two Notre Dame colleagues, Khalil Matta and Sarvanan Devaraj, recently was honored by the Decision Sciences Institute as the outstanding application paper of 1997. 
A member of the editorial board of the Academy of Management Review, Conlon previously served on the boards of the Academy of Management Journal and the Journal of Applied Psychology. He is a member of the Academy of Management and the American Psychological Society. 
Conlon's appointment to the Edward Frederick Sorin Society Professorship is effec­tive immediately. 
She also has become equally outspoken as SISTER HELEN PREJEAN an opponent of capi­
tal punishment and as an advocate for victims' rights. 
"The most profound moral question of our violent soci­ety," she said recently, "is not what to do with the innocent, but what to do about the guilty." 

• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 
Students propose du Lac revisions 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
Brendan Kelly and Jen Dovidio from the Student Committee on Rights and Responsibilities addressed the Campus Life Council on possible revisions to du Lac that their committee has come up with in discus­sions throughout the semester. 
"Students do not know their role in the aca­demic and student life mission of the University," Dovidio, the judicial council pres­ident, said. "This leads to a perceived discon­nection between academic and student life." 
The pair described previous approaches to revising du Lac, the University's student pro­cedures and policies handbook, as reactive and narrowly focused. 
"I think that a lot of what happened was that the debate got caught up in talk of rights," Kelly said. "This confused the issue. The word, 'rights' is already in du Lac but it does not fix all that is wrong." 
The committee's report stressed the impor­tance of further work with the Office of Residence Life. It also asked that some minor revisions be made while the major revisions can be hammered out. 
Du Lac goes through a major revision period every two years and a minor revision period in the off summers. 
Among the committee's recommendations were the idea of using affirmative language, an expanded resource section and including information about the institutions and com­mittees that solicit student input. 
"Right now this really focuses on what stu­dents should not do and where they cannot go," Kelly said. "It should tell you instead what students should do." 
Assistant vice president of Student Affairs Bill Kirk expressed concern that the work of the committee was going to be undone by the inexperience of the incoming administration. 
"This is a lot of good groundwork that they have done here and I think that it would be a shame for someone who doesn't know what is going on to come in and change things," he said. 
He was reassured by Kelly and incoming student body president Peter Cesaro that Andrea Kavoosi, who was involved in the pro­ject from the beginning and is currently the senator from Breen-Phillips, will take over the committee and carry out its recommenda­tions. 


You are the students. You are the news. What's going on in your life? Email us at: Observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 31, I 998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OHICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EotTOR-IN-CHtEF  
Hearher Cocks  
MANAGING EDITOR  BUSINESS MANAGER  
Brian Reinthalcr  Kyle Carlin  
AssiSTANt MANAGING EDITOR  
Heather MacKenzie  

NEWS EDITOR . ..Matthew Loughran Al>V .. :RTISING MANAGER ........................ Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR . . .... Eduardo Llull An DF.SIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett H uelat St'ORTS EDITOR .................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag Wt:s AUMINI!o~TRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klirsch CoNTROl.l.ER ......••.••..•.•••.•................. Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ............ Shannon Ryan I'HOTO ElliTOR ..................... Kevin Dalum 
'JOe (ll»crver ir. 1he indeJX'ndcnl newspaper published by du: !oludcnls of the Univc-rsiry of Notre Dame du l.ac and Saint Mary's College. l1 docs 1101 ncc.:ess.arily reflect rhc polictt'.'l of the administracion of cirhcr institurion. ·l'hc news is repuncd .u accuratdy and ohte~tivdy ~~ possible. Unsigned cthtttri.tls represent the opinion of rhc majority of the 
Ediwr-in-Chicf, Manilt;ing Ednnr, Ao,sJst.ull Managing FAiitor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and cnlumm pr~scnt the v1cws of th~ .author), and not necessarily those ofThe: Observer. Vit>Wpoim space i.!. avail.ablc ro all members nt thC' Notre Damc/Samt M.uy's wnununiry and w .til reader\. The free expression of varying opinions 
thruugh letters i~ encour.agetl. Contacting The Observer 
Edirur-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Otlice MJnaging Ediwr/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising News/l'ho<o 631-5.323 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene//Saint M•ry's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5.303 Ad E-Mail Otlice Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail 
• So, WHAT's MY POINT? 
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint. I @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu obsetver.obsnews.l @nd.cdu 
A 
recently published book that gathered views from "middle-class" America also surveyed Americans' opin­ions about the National Ril1e Association. According to Chicago Tribune book reviewer Don Hose, "there is ... universal condemnation of the National Hil1e Association, which is dis­liked even more than proponents of political correctness." 
Nakasha Ahmad 
In addition to all this, ever since the massacre by the two middle-school boys in Jonesboro, Ark., there has again been an upsurge in tlw movement to ban virtually all guns and therefore eliminate our constitutional right to bear arms. England has already taken that step. That country recently banned almost all forms of guns, and more and more people in the U.S. wish to follow its lead. 
I know people have said it befor11, but I feel the need to say it again: Guns don't kill pnople, people kill people. 
May I remind the anti-gun folks that we have had guns for hundreds of years-the level of violenr.e now seen in the United States has not. however, been around that long. Hunting and shooting are sports that have taken placn for hundreds of years. Tlwre is a n~ason tlw Founding Fathers gave Americans tlw right to bear arms -to dnfend themselves. 
Just because we have guns does 
not necessarily mean that we 
have violence. 
American laws say that it is wrong and against the law to kill -no matter what the weapon. Whether one kills with a gun, a knife, or the classic "blunt instrument" of detective fiction, one is still killing-that is, rob­bing a fellow human being of life, a right which he enjoys along with those of liberty and the pursuit of happiness. 
The U.S. Constitution does not say that murder can be commit­ted as long as people don't use guns. 
Murder is committed not by a weapon, but by the person behind the weapon. If you feel angry enough and desperate enough, if you have not been taught right from wrong, and it suddenly occurs to you to bump ofT that annoying kid who sits behind you in class and always looks at your test over your shoulder, then a gun control law is not going to stop you from doing it. You could poison him, or stab him, or strangle him. You have plenty of choices with­out guns. 
You could commit murder with a razor. Are we now going to outlaw razors and insist that everyone wear beards because someone might slash someone else's throat'? 
You could commit murder by strangling someone. What next'? Cut ofT everyone's hands'? 
You could commit murder by smothering someone with a pil­low. Don't expect me to give up my pillow-might smother you for suggesting it. You get the point. 
The reason behind murder is usually the intent-not the fact that a weapon was easily attain­
WttOlllt\li~tb~ Hl'\1 \-J1 macnelly.com Th.e.PLAYBOY Philosophy R~visited 

Guns Don't Kill People ••• 
able. 
While accidental death through guns is a serious problem, ban­ning guns is not the answer, just like banning household cleaning products is not a viable solution to prevent children from being accidentally poisoned. On the other hand, the rest of us law­abiding citizens need guns (or even want guns) to defend our­selves. 
Of course, you may ask your­selves, don't the rules that apply to would-be murderers also apply to potential victims'? Well, no, not exactly. In an assault, the advantage lies with the attacker -he is taking his vic­tim by surprise, and therefore has tho upper hand, no matter what he uses as a weapon. The assaultee, however, has to deal with an unexpected attack, and therefore it would be to his advantage to have a weapon with him. 
Moreover, banning guns doesn't prevent criminals from having them. Drugs are against the law. However, anybody who really wants drugs can easily obtain them. 
If we ban guns, the same thing will happen. Anybody who really wants guns will be able to obtain them, while the law-abiding citi­zen will be left with nothing to defend himself. 
I've said it before, and I'll say it again. Guns don't kill people. People kill people. 
Nakasha Ahmad is an English major at Saint Mary's. ller col­umn appears every other Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author, and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
;;1.•• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
•m!v• 
Infanticide, not Abortion 
their cries are silent, 
, )Their pain is real; the brave young hearts whose lives we steal Growing and maturing inside their Mamas everyday; Developing their personalities only for life to be taken away. Jnnocent and fragile, 
o delicate and pure; 
or some they are a problem, so in death they imd a cure. I never spoke a word to them, and I never saw their smiles; Yet in my heart I hear their cries, as their tiny graves are seen for miles. those innocent unborn babies will never see the sky; They'll never see a bright orange sunset, or a seagull flying so high. A grain of sand they'll never touch, the ocean they'll never know; To never know what love feels like, or experience life as they grow. I will miss their presence and innocent smile, I will miss never holding their hand; I will miss never teaching them to take 
their first steps, now they will leave no footsteps in the sand. Although they are gone and so deeply I grieve, tomorrow no more shall die; For tomorrow I shall save their brothers 
not yet conceived, and stil1e their silent cry. I know I can never bring them back, though I pray so hard that l could; I must acknowledge the fact that they're dead, and aren't allowed to live life like they should I know they are in Heaven, at peace with God and asleep: Tomorrow the massacre of babiiJs shall end, so no longer shall I weep. So I write this for the aborted babies, who were killed in their Mothers' wombs; The innocent young babes went from conception into their tombs. 
Catherine M. Gaughen March .~0, 1998 

• '1 DONES BURY 
N&'l?& 6a'NG 70 /~£.a? >a/ 
AU!a/5CANNOTAUOtU 
TH& ~ec:FORt3 
CON6/?£95 7V R5STRICT 
OURAlT£.9.7 7lJ lllc 
ONt; THIN6/f/b Nt:el? 
7lJ SU!?YM3-KJP6/ 
......... 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

ON/..YKIPS AR£ MOT!VATfl' tiNOUGH 7DSUCK HOT FUM!35 /NllJ 7H&IR../..IJNGG UNTI/... 7H&Y8t3a.1l4& 5/CK/ONL-YXIPS 
P/1/..£-MAK/3 THAT CHOIC8/ 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Hatred is the coward's revenge for being intimidated." 
-George Bernard Shaw 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 page 9 

•TABLETALK 
A PBS Easter 
On April 6 and 7 PBS debuts a new erttry ailiongthe annual Easter specials. Beginning the d~y after Palm Sunday, coincidentally the day Jesus clmmsedthe Temple (no doubt unnerving a few of his ownfans), the PBS Frontline special, "From Jesus to Christ: The Story of the FirstChristians," will surely unsettle itS 
fair share 
r-=~~~~~~~~==========~ofthe 

faithfuL Contrary to the
David 
usual 
Easter 
viewing
Weiss 
fare, which retells the story of Jesus as though the Bible allows us torecreate itin allits detail. PBS will instead confront us with just how shadowy this man's life was, and will suggest that from the very beginning the Jesus story was a contest· ed narrative. Indeed, the documentary covers four centuries in the conviction that telling the life of Jesus requires telling the story ofhow that life, with all its historical gaps, came to be told, retold, and often argued about. already in the first Gospels and coritin· uing on into the early church. 
This might seem like nothing more than agnostic scholarship by historians determined to get at the truth in history no matter what. Atbestitmight anger us in its arrogance to purportedly tell "our" history, minus "our" faith. At worst it might do such a good job of that· as to unravel, or at least fray~ thatfaith itself. And yet Christians, after all, are convinced that 
the Truth has gotten at us-'-'-in history, and no matter what. 
There are good reasons, both for Christians and tW non-Christians to tune in. 
Non-Christians, put off by endless intra-Christian disputes, may have the edifying insight that it's always been like that: we've always argued about who this guy was. That's not so much reasonto discredit tis as it is cause to be curious about why we remainso tena­ciously fascinated with somethingthat's.beenunclear for 2000 years now. 
Meanwhile, despite the in~house squabbling, many Christians still believe that the Gospels record Jesus' ·· life purely, without the messiness associated with other historical sQurces. The PBS production will make painfully clear that whatever guarantees God might make, a crystal dear record of Jesus' life is not among them. 
That's worth knowing. And it really s~ould!l't COlJ).e as a surprise. Just reading the Bible one senses that if this whole story, from Genesis through Revelation, is to be trusted at all, it involves trusting a God who thrives on working with messiness. From the chaos prior to creationto the cataclysms envisioned}>yJo:tm·· on Patmos, God is not shy about pressing historical 
messiness into divine purposes. .. .. . ·.. . . > .... 
More importantly fQr Christians, given our daim that Jesus is God incarnate, the PBS documentary deepens the wonder of that. It's somehow too easy tO. 
believe that God became human ,;;._,.but in a majesti" cally humble way: born in a stable, yes, but qeralded by angels and with his story preserved indelibly for future generations. Much Il1ore astoU11ding-and biblical-is the PBS intimationthat becoming human meant setting aside most of the divine PR apparatus we assume was kept in place. ... 
Becoming human for this God, unlike the deified rulers of ancient Egypt or Gr¢ece. meailtslipping int() ·· the world at the margins. And fodhe most part stay~ ing there. When Jesus sought to describe the Kingdom of God he chose images like mustard seeds. leaven, and salt, precisely because of their apparent insignifi­cance. PBS will show that in manyways Jesus himself lived up to that billing: he was barely worth noticing ... untit suddenly he was so much worth n(lticing that everyone, from friend to foe, had to have a special slant on him. 
That's worth knowing, too, Becaitse We so easily forget it. If PBS succeeds in presenting the ambiguitr of Jesus in history, it does Christians a favor/For the 
first Christians, faith meant staking one's life on the pretentious claims, almost alway$ rendered ~econd~ or third-hand, about the decisive importance of a no~ name preacher from a smaUJown "'ho(ly~ntuallyg~t crucified for, among others things. insisting that ~;om­passion was the way to.live even in a society driven by values not all that unlike those thatddve American 
capitalism today. . . ... . ..· .....· For the first Christians, the moyementfrom ~esus to . 
Christ, from history to faith, wasn't guaranteed by the · Gospel text or a Hollywood rnovi.~\Jt was. pur<:Jiased ,.. by individual discipleship and cotn.tnunalcomrnitment 
in the midst of ambiguity. IfPBS helps us recapture . 
that chance, I say tharik you, and GOd bless. ;;m 
David Weiss is aPh.f), can(lif!a~e.inC!JrjS;tiqr~: etlttps; i His article appears every other Tue$day:* ·· · . · · · The views expressed in thiscolumn ar~ th~s~ ofI author, and not necessarily those oj:rheObserver. 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Call for 'Common Courtesy' 


I'm a humble soul who has never asked for much in life. Growing up in rural eastern Oregon I would often entertain myself by dribbling a basketball up and down the block in front of my house. During the cold winter months I would spend many hours in the backyard, making snow angels ana staring into the sky, thinking about the 49ers and won­dering what was for dinner. I had a hard time falling asleep the night before school started in second grade, because my mom had bought me a brand new set of 25 magic markers but wouldn't let me open then until classes began in late August. 
To many this might sound like a dreary existence, but for me it's always sufficed. Keeping this per­sonal philosophy in mind, four years ago I enrolled at Oregon State University-an awkward public backwater located in the western half of the state, a place where omi­nous protrusions from lower lips are the norm and where the football team hasn't stumbled across a win­ning season in 27 years. Educational standards there aren't always what they should be: Nobel laureate chemist and peace advocate Linus Pauling graduated from OSU in the 1920's, though not until he had fin­ished his compulsory ROTC service and issued a few complaints about the bad math classes that would remain his chief educational lament until his death at age 93. Bernard Malamud, twice a Pulitzer Prize win­ner, spent ten years on OSU's English faculty, a time period that was largely imbued with pensive loathing. Today, enrollment is at a 30 year low and the school is facing a $14 million debt. 
Imagine my excitement then, at the prospect of traveling eastward to visit my good friend Dave at the University of Notre Dame -a school with a storied history, where the dorms have had books written about them, where the public art is exten­sive, but not threatening. Before I left I read that South Bend had received 17 inches of snow; hardly the Spring Break condition one would see on MTV. "No matter," I thought since, after all, a foot and a half of snow was a small price to pay for a week on the campus that pro­duced Knute Rockne, Phil Donahue, Regis Philbin and my childhood idol, Joe Montana. 
Next imagine my shock and dis­may at the negative encounter thrust upon me by the first representative I met on this, the most hallowed of campuses. As Dave and I pulled up to the east gate entrance, my eyes were wide with anticipation and my heart beat aflutter. At last, here I was, the only school that could maintain a building topped with gold leaf, sans hubris and $14 million debt. This would be a week to remember; all that lay ahead now was a quick drive to the dorm, the dropping off of bags, and six days of uninterrupted fun. 
My enraptured trance was abrupt­ly interrupted though by a scowling fake policeman, Ditka-like in visage, seemingly ready and willing to pull a Rodney King on my good friend behind the steering wheel. "Whatt'ya got in there!" Mr. 
vffr \
Ditka inquired. "My friend's bag and a tool box in the 
trunk," Dave responded, whim­pering. "Let me see the box!" replied the Gatekeeper of Shangri-la. 
The two disap­peared, leaving my stunned person filled with a certain dread tinged with nervous anticipa­tion. "How could this be happening?" I thought. "Is it my fault? Should I have shaven? Where's my North Face jack­et?" 
Dave and his ubermensch returned shortly. "You can handle the box and your friend can carry his bag. There should be a spot in D-2." Security had spoken and official justice had been carried out. The only spot we could find was in D-2000. 
Struggling through the long and bitter-cold walk to Zahm, weary from 12 hours of airplanes and eponymous airline "snacks," I attempt­ed to collect my thoughts. What had just happened? Should we have said that we were visit­ing the Peace House? Was that the leprechaun guy who just walked by? Man, this bag is heavy. 
That night my friend wrote a scathing letter to the editor about our upsetting experi­ence. At first I was nervous about his actions; after all, there's Jots of nice people here and the dorm food is quite a bit better than what I'm used to. Plus, there's a bar on campus­ires cool. 
But as time marches on, more and more the incident has been eating away at me. Is this the sort of atti­tude that impresses U.S. News and World Report? Was the ghost of 
· George Gipp hovering somewhere above, nodding disapprovingly? Could the security guard tell that I go to public school? Do I really look like a townie? 
You have a nice school here in the quiet heartland of America. The Sun computers are pretty unreal and the red digital clocks in DeBartolo are fun to watch. But as a long-time citi­zen of Small Town, U.S.A., I've come to realize the value of decency in interpersonal communication. Beneath the NBC contract, the cam­pus golf course and the perfectly trim grass should lie a foundation of common courtesy and goodwill, even to garish outsiders like me. And while these qualities can certainly be found at Notre Dame, on one partic­ular day, at one particular time, courtesy and goodwill were in sadly short supply. The Dome will be for­ever tarnished now, the Four Horsemen not so ensconced in lore. And my shoulder still hurts a little bit, because that bag was heavier than it looked. 
Chris Petersen Senior, Oregon State University March 26, 1998 

Remembering Dr. Nripen Biswas 
T
he physics department lost a good friend and professor with the passing of Dr. Nripen Biswas on Tuesday night. His death may not have generated front-page headlines, but for those who knewhim, he will always be remembered for "his quiet competence and graciousness", to quote our department chair, Dr. Gerald Jones. 
Although I personally did not know Dr. Biswas very well, I had the benefit of seeing him almost every day when he came down to the southwest stairs of Nieuwland Science Hall to smoke his pipe. He had been my professor almost four years ago, but he always remembered me with a smile and a hello. 
Last fall, he was present at a silly mishap in the physic.s department oflice during which I had an acci­dental run-in with one of the new walls. He stayed in the office with me while I waitedfor security to arrive just to make certain that I was all right. 
His genuine concern is something I will never forget. Goodbye, Professor Biswas. I will miss the smell of your pipe on the Nieuwland stairs. 
Ann Heilman graduate student in physics March 19, 1998 

-~--------...--~~---~~­

------Tuesday, March 31, I 998 


Peanuts cartoon comes to life at SMC 



By LOUBEL CRUZ 
Scene Copy EJiror 
Good grief! 
The Peanuts Gang is back and better than ever. Charlie Brown. Lucy, Linus and, of course, Snoopy, all come to life when the musical "You're a Good Man, Charli1~ Brown" takes the stage this week at Saint Mary's College. The show illustrates the gang's struggle with all of life's issues -big and small, happy and sad -and how they learned a few things along the way. 
"This play is just plain fun. It shows the chil­dren's life events, reveals their feelings and emo­tions and even the fantasies running through a dog's !Snoopy's] head," said director Katie Sullivan, assistant professor in communication, dance and theatre at Saint Mary's. 
The play is a Broadway musical version of Ch aries Schultz's cartoon strip. with music and lyrics by Clark Gesner. With that combination, they bring back the magic of Charlie Brown and open the doors of childhood a little for a tiny peek. 
"Evoryone can relate to this play," said Sullivan. "It is very interesting. Children can relate to it since they like the eharaeters, and adults have an ironic enjoyment because they have experienced what they arc watching." 
"Tlw play recreates all of the very adult emo­tions children have to go through," said sopho­more Brian Seaman, who plays Charlie Brown. 
"You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" is a family musical that shows an average day in the life of Charlie Brown and his friends. The day, however, spans Valentine's Day, springtime and a hopeful season of snow. 
The musieal takes the characters and situations right out of the newspaper comic strip and places them on stage. Lucy is bossy and aggressive, Schroeder plays Beethoven on his mini piano, Charlie Brown can not seem to do anything right and it would not be the same without Snoopy bat­tling the Heel Baron. 
In the musical, there are scenes that people can remember experiencing when they were children -a glee-club rehearsal, striking out at the plate and losing the baseball game, and having a crush on the "little red-headed girl." 
"This play is not like any play I've ever been in," said senior Anne Marie Joseph, who plays Lucy. Sullivan chose this play for the spring slot because the students wanted to do a musical.. 
"I wanted to do a musical that wasn't very big and expensive. I had to do one that I could do myself and oversee all the music, acting and danc­ing," said Sullivan. 
In her senior year in high school, Sullivan acted in "You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" as Lucy. 
"I have very fond memories acting in this play. It was so much fun and I wanted the students to have the same experience I did," said Sullivan. 
The play originally had six parts, but Sullivan 
doubled the size of the east. adding characters such as Sally, Marcy and Freida. 
In the beginning of January, 45 pnople audi­tioned for the play, and rehearsals started a few weeks later. The .cast danced, sang and practkPd three hours per day, four days per week, for thn past three months. 
"It was a very small, intimate cast and we really have a sense of ensemble and family," said Seaman. "It has been a great experiencr to work with such great actors, top-notch teehnieians and a fun director." 
We were able to leave everything behind and act like kids again. It brought us back to our child­hood," he added. 
"You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown" will bn showing Thursday, Friday and Saturday at S p.m. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the Moreau Center/Little Theatre on the Saint Mary's campus. 


• RHYME AND REASON 
Credit Cards: The Perils of Plastic 
By JANICE WEIERS always thought was a bad influ­are saving yourself from paying tion: it's not small because it is week, your credit card could b1J A<.-istant Seen~ Editor ence. They can tempt you to interest later. And the interest unimportant, and reading it may $50 happier without waiting 30 buy, buy, buy. But by following on that interest. save you from applying for a days. And the interost eharge on 
It may be true that Visa and a few tips, you can become a Compounded interest is paid card with a constantly rising the next statement could be Mastercard comprise a fairly responsible card holder. one on credit cards. This means that interest rate or a $75 annual fee. smaller than it would have been. good percentage of your mail, that credit card holder that interest will be computed every If paying the entire balance is Credit eards are not the devil. but beware and be cautious credit card companies don't month and added to your bal­not an option (this will happen When used correctly and bofore sending their self­walk all over. The card holder ance. Therefore, next month's to everybody), pay as much as responsibly, these pieces of addressed, postage-paid, every­that pays in full each month. Or interest will include last you can afford for the billing plastic can help you all'ord an thing-but-licked envelopes back. at least more than the minimum month's interest ifthe bill is not cycle and remember that you education. Or perhaps a pen F1·om that moment on, the rela­required amount. paid in its entirety. Paying more still have the option of making a from the bookstore. They are 
tionship may be more costly Beware of the minimum-pay­each month will save you big ghost payment (money sent be­not plastic demons waiting to than you can afford. · ment option on your statement. bucks as time goes on. tween payment due dates) later. devour your money and shrnd Credit enrds can be a trusty It is in your best fmancial inter­"You have just won a million For instance, ifyou just sent a your credit rating. friond, or they can be ono of est to pretend it does not exist. dollars." Now, read the fine payment, still have a balance But they can. And they will if those friends that your parents By paying off the entire bill, you print included in your applica· and win $50 at Bingo the next you let them. 

c 
s 
pagell-----------------------------------~OBSERVER --------------------------------Tuesday, March 31, 1998 

By SARAH DYLAG Scene Editor 
Authentic Irish roots are sometimes forgotten on campus even though there is a lep­rechaun mascot and a "Fightin' Irish" slogan. Without their existence, it would be easy to forget that a place called Ireland exists. 
Until now. On Thursday, from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m., Farley Hall will host its first annual Farley Feis, an Irish festival complete with traditional food, music and coffee. "We wanted to emphasize the Irish aspect of things which is often lacking here and shouldn't be," explained Erin Wysong, eo-president of Farley Hall. 
But the night is more than a festival of Irish customs. It is also in memory of Patty Kwiat, a former Farley Hall resident who died in TWA flight 800. All donations collect­ed during the evening will be donated to a scholarship fund in honor of Kwiat. 
"Last year, some of Patty's friends organized a fund-raiser in LaFortune Ballroom and George and the Freeks came and played," said Wysong. "We wanted to establish an annual event sometime around St. Patrick's Day where we could have an Irish event in memory of Patty." 
Performers for the evening will include the Notre Dame Bagpipe Club, the Irish Dance Club, the student band Fenians and Irish performer joHn Kennedy . The Bagpipe Club, whose seven pipers performed at the State Theater on St. Patrick's Day, the Alumni Wake and will perform at AnTostal, will present a mix of 
traditional Irish and Scottish tunes. "Erin [Wysong] called and asked ifwe would be interested," explained club member Dan Murphy. "We thought it was good to do something for Kwiat." 
The Irish Dance Club, a new club on campus this year, will perform two soft shoe acts to traditional Irish reel music. One will include four members and the other will include six. In addition, club members Mark Wegner and Kelly O'Hagan will perform solo work to treble reel. dancing in hard shoes instead of soft. 
The club, whose only other performance took place at the International Festival in January, is excited for another chance to perform. 
"We will do any Irish performance," said O'Hagan. 
The Irish band Fenians, with guitarists Beth Marino, Nathan Young and vocalist Ashling McKenna, will present a mix of original and American songs with an Irish twist. 
"We play traditional music and songs that we add an Irish feel to," said McKenna. 
The band's originals were composed by Young with McKenna with the addition of Irish music. Their Farley Feis performance will include "Ride On," by a popular Irish performer, the Allman Brother's "Black Water" and five of their originals. 
Admission to Farley Feis is free, but donations are encouraged. 
"I think it's important because flight 800 is not a typical incident," said Wysong. "Plus, it happened two years ago and that makes it a recent event. It's important for donations to go to the Patty Kwiat fund." 
Young talent shines throueh in freshman Plays 
By ADAM MALLORD Scene Copy Editor 
There will certainly be an overabundance of acting tal­ent at Notre Dame for the next couple of years; this is evi­dent after Saturday night's First Year Plays, performed and directed by freshmen in the Hesburgh Auditorium. 
The plays performed were "The Importance of Being Earnest," by Oscar Wilde, "WASP," by Steve Martin, and "For Whom the Southern Belle Tolls," by Christopher Durang. 
Faculty advisors Dawn Overstreet and Bret Huiz selected the director for each play after holding extensive interviews with all of the applicant<>. Each director then selected the play they wanted to bring to the Notre Dame campus. 
"I chose it [The Importance of Being Earnest'] because Oscar Wilde is one of. my favorite playwrights," said director Charles Ashbrook. "I was basically just trying to recreate the basic dassic comedy of the Victorian era. There has also been a recent revival of Wilde. I thought it could come to Notre Dame." 
Ashbrook's play starred John Area as Jack Worthing and Ethan Brown as Algernon Moncrief. 
"I picked my actors on their auditions and especially on their British accents, since it was set in Vietorian England," said Ashbrook .."Sometimes it is inadvisable to have British accents because it is sometimes hard to keep an accent for the entire show, but luckily the actors were very talented and were able to keep their accent all the way through." 
Area said, "The first couple of nights I went out of my accent. but then I was able to keep it. It is something you have to constantly think about." 
Wilde wrote the play in 1895, satirizing upper class English customs, particularly their social rules regarding marriage. His two main char­acters, Worth-ing and Moncrief, att-empt to win the hearts and vows of two upper class young ladies by taking on the name Ernest. 
The importance of Worthing having the name Ernest is dis­played when fiance(\ Gwendolen Fairfax. portrayed by Kelly Cooney, admits that she would not marry Worthing if h.is 
nnnw wa<; nnf FrnP<;f 
"Ovnrall evnryone did a really good job. but Jack and Algernon carried the play." said Ashbrook. "They spent a lot of time together perfecting their parts. Their hard work and dedication brought the play a long way." 
"(Ashbrook] and I talked a lot about my character," Area said. "Together we discovered the meaning and what we were trying to get across to the audience." 
The audience response was favorable, with each char­acter receiving a thunderous ovation at the play's conclu­sion. 

Ashbrook said, 'The audience responded really well. They laughed at all the spots we were expect­ing them to laugh at. The actors gave it their all and the audi­ence was most appre­ciative with their response at the end." 
For the second play, Lisa Fabrega selected "WASP," a play writ­ten in 1995 by come­dian Steve Martin. 
"I wanted a strange, off-the-wall, unex­pected play," said 
Fabrega. "I also want-The 1998 First Year Plays were performed Saturday evening in the Hesburgh Library ed a play with com-Auditorium. The plays were directed and performed by first year students. plex characters. The characters in the play Above: Cast members of "WASP" sit around the kitchen tat:lle. From left to right: freshmen are not very politically Chad Maestas, John Lauringer, Erin Burke and Erin Lovell. 
correct. They are a
spoof of close-minded Below: First year students perform the play "The Importance of Being Earnest." 
people. While they're a family, they have their individual selves." 
In the monologues they show parts of themselves that aren't portrayed in the family. There are a lot of hidden things in the human soul that come out when we're by ourselves. I wanted people to catch a glimpse of them­selves." 
The setting of the play is the living room of an American family. The family includes a father, mother, son and daughter. This play could only have come from the mind of Martin, who included such ideas as the son receiv­ing a bicycle as a gift only after he spends his after-school time constructing a building on his 
dad's empty lot. 
Erin Burke played the 
mother, who feels alone in 
her relationship with her 
husband. 
Burke commented, 
"The mom is kind of an 
airhead. She has a deeper 
level, though. She is trying 
to find a relationship with 
her husband. She loves him, 
and she wants to receive love 
back. She wants to figure him 
out and herself in the process. She 
wants to break down the wall 
between them." 
Burke had high school experience in per­
forming on stage, but Fabrega wanted to give people without previous experience a chance to perform as well. One actor without previous experience was Chad Maestas, who played the son. 
"I never acted before but I wasn't too nervous. I was just looking to have fun. I received a lot of help from Lisa. 
She did an exceptional job of putting the play together," he said. 
Maestas used facial expressions to help get the child's character across to the audience. "A younger character is not going to understand everything an adult does, so I was trying to show misunderstood expressions a lot," he said. 
The fmal play shown in the First Year Plays was "For Whom the Southern Belle Tolls," a satirical parody of Tennessee Williams' "The Glass Menagerie." 
Director Jenifer Rinner said, "I was looking for a play that the audience would appreciate. I also wanted a smaller cast, and this play has only four characters. I also like Durang." 
This play takes several tragic and serious aspects of "The Glass Menagerie" and changes them into humorous scenes. 
The five-year old Lawrence was portrayed by Joe Howarth, who was also a first-time actor. Rinner said, "See~~g someone that old act that young turned out really ­well. 
"Joe had a great performance," commented Area. "He really shined." 
Amanda, portrayed by Betsy Kahl, is a Southern belle mother who tries to impose all of her rules on her chil­dren. However, she actually does not understand them at all. 
Additionally, Hinner commented on the homosexual innuendoes involved in Durang's script. "There were a lot of gay overtones. They were certainly not ignorable, so we played up on those a lot," she said. 
Both of the characters Tom (Jim McFarlin) and Ginny (Rinner) arc homosexuals, and Durang included several puns regarding their sexual preference. 
Rinner said. "We had a great audience. We kept the audience in mind when we made the jokes. We didn't know what they were going to laugh at." 

page 12 The Observer· NCAA CHAMPIONSHIPS Tuesday, March 31, 1998 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 
A title for Tubby 
Kentucky takes championship with 78-69 win 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO Call them the Comeback 'Cats. 
Kentucky capped a truly mad­dening March with an unpreee­dentnd second-half rally, beat­ing Utah 78-69 Monday night to win its second NCAA champi­onship in three years. The Wildr.ats did it this time with a new coach and without stars in their lineup. 
Kentucky overcame the largest halftime deficit -l 0 points -in a championship game with its third straight rally of the tournament to win its seventh national title. 
"We'r.e comeback kids," Kentucky coach Tubby Smith said. "These kids have done it all." 
With Smith working the side­lines instead of Hick Pitino and with the NBA. Kentucky moved one trophy closer to UCLA's record total of 11. 
It was the third straight year the Wildcats were in thP. cham­pionship game -they lost to Arizona in overtime last season­and the third straight year they ended Utah's season in the NCAA tournament. 
Utah's impressive run to what would have been the school's second title and first since 1944 ended because Kentucky did what No. 1 seeds Arizona and North Carolina couldn't do against the Utes -shoot well. 
Just as they had in the South Hegional final against Duke and again in the national semifinals against Stanford. the Wildcats fell behind in the first half, trail­ing 41-31 at halftime. The deficit was as many as 12 points in the opening minutes of the second half before Kentucky started shooting well, some­thing Utah's last two opponents couldn't do. 
"We've come back all year long." Wildcats' guard Cameron Mills said. "Every time we fell behind. we never quit." 
The Utes, the second-best defensive team in the country this season, had held its five tournament opponents to 39 percent shooting and an aver­age of 62.5 points. 
Kentucky, which finished 29­for-57 from the field (51 per­cnnt), chipped away at the lead by scoring on seven of 10 pos­sessions. 
The Wildcats took the lead for the first time since early in the 
'WE'VE COME BACK 
ALL YEAR LONG. EVERY TIME WE FELL 
BEHIND, WE NEVER QUIT.' 
KENTUCKY's CAMERON MILLS 
first half at 60-58 with 7:16 to play on a breakaway dunk by Jeff Sheppard after he stole the ball from Hanno Mottola. 
Utah got the lead back at 62­60 on a driving layup by Andre Miller with 6:16 left and even extended it by two more points when Miller fed Alex Jensen for a layup 23 seconds later. 
But a 3-pointer by Mills, Kentucky's fifth of the game ­all in the second half -and a driving jumper by Sheppard with 4:53 left gave the Wildcats the lead for good. 
Sheppard's jumper was Kentucky's last field goal until the a dunk by Wayne Turner with 12 seconds to play. The Wildcats went 11-for-12 from the foul line down the stretch and Utah's solid offensive game went to pieces as it scored on just two of its lastlO posses­sions. 
Scott Padgett led the Wildcats with 17 points, while Sheppard had16. 
Miller led the Utes with 16 points, while Mottola and Michael Doleac each had 15 and Jensen 14. 
As the trophy was presented by Selection Committee chair­man C.M. Newton, who also happens to be the athletic director at 
Kentucky and the man who picked Smith to succeed Pitino, the crowd chanted "Tubby, Tubby." 
It seemed implausible that any coach could be more popu­lar in Kentucky than Pitino had been in leading the program back from one of its lowest points following probation. But Smith may have topped him in the one year since Pitino left to coach the Boston Celtics. 
Kentucky is now 7-3 in NCAA championship games, but its record over Utah in the last three seasons is 3-0 with a sec­ond-round win two years ago and a regional semifinal victory last season. 
Utah had beaten defending national champion Arizona in the West Regional final in a 25­point Iaugher. 
The Utes were able to hang on to beat North Carolina in the Final Four, but they couldn't do it against Kentucky as the Wildcats just plain wore down the nation's top rebounding team. 
Utah finished with a 39-24 advantage on the boards, but in the later possessions Kentucky didn't miss many shots. 
In the first half, Utah went on a 10-0 run that Jensen started and ended with layups off long passes· to take a 34-23 lead. Kentucky did get within 37-31, but the Utes scored the final four points of the half for the 10-point lead. 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Catchings leads Lady Vols to third-straight 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Tennessee completed a 39-0 season Sunday night, a season in which it set standards for women's basketball. by beating Louisiana Tech 93-75 to win an unprecedented third straight NCAA title. 
It was one final dominating performance by a brilliant team that had only one senior, guard Laurie Milligan. And she playecl all of one minute Sunday. 
Chamique lloldsclaw, the best player in the country, is a junior. 
So is point guard Kellin Jolly. Starting center LaShonda Stephens is a sophomore and then there's that 
freshman class 'THIS IS SOMETHING was the largest regarded as the margin ever in
THAT NO ONE HAS best ever: the national 
T a m i k a EVER DONE, BUT IT'S JUST 
semifinals. C a t c h i n g s . THE BEGINNING.' The Lady Semeka Randall, Vols pressed Kristen Clement and put up and Teresa TENNESSEE'S Li!URIE MILLIGAN points in 
And she's not stopping there. 
"We can't be complacent in any way in recruiting," Summitt said. "And I don't plan for that to happen. We're out there working mally hard. I've proba­bly been on the road more this year than I have in the last four or live years recruiting. 
The 39 victories an~ the inost for a women's team in NCAA play and the most for any unbeaten team in any NCAA division, men's or women's. 
The Lady Vols won by an average margin of 30 points ­28 in the NCAA tournament ­and in only three games was tlw margin below I 0. Their 86-58 
victory over 
Arkansas on 
Friday night 
Geter. 
Catchings was the leading scor­er in the final with 27 points. Holdsclaw was voted the out­standing player in the Final Four. · 
"You don't always win when you're supposed to," coach Pat Summitt said. "But if we stay healthy and our two freshmen come in and do the things I think they're capable of doing, I think you're going to sec an exciting team next year as well." 
The challenge, then, is to put together a team to stop the Lady Vols, who have won 45 straight games. 
The problem is, no coach is going to outwork Summitt. Already blessed with remark­able talent on the perimeter, Summitt signed two post players for next season: 6-foot-5 Michelle Snow and 6-3 Shalon Pillow. 
bunches. They 
scored on acrobatic drives, pull-up jumpers, spinning layups and 3­pointers. They set up teammates with no-look and behind-the­back passes. They ran fast­breaks without the ball ever touching the floor. 
''I've been in this business 24 years and I have never had this much fun," Summitt said. "It's been a great learning experi­ence. They're really special peo­ple. They care about each otht~r. They love the game and they believe they can go out and win. I like dealing with people like that." 
This Tennessee team can rightfully daim to be the best ever in the women's game. But that designation might last only until next season's Tennessee team is finished. 
"This is something that no one has ever done," Milligan said. 
The Observer acce:pts claSSifieds every business day from 8 a.m. 10 3 p.m. a1 the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline f(>r next-day clas­

Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per charaCier per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds lor content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

THE COPY SHOP -LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!ll Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon -Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
WANTED 

SUMMER EMPLOYMENT: ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT SNITE ART MUSEUM Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum objects and related hands­on activities. June 2nd to July 31st, I 0-20 hours per week. Fine Arts major with exp. teaching and/or working with children prelerred. (June 15 to July 31st, additional Work Study hours -if eligible-with National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if desired. PLUS room and board included June 23 to Aug. I) CALL education curator Sherrie Gauley, 63·1-4435. ASAP. App. deadline 4/06/98 
Students! Looking for flexible hours? lnt'l Health & Nutrient Co. offering competitive wages to moti­vated individuals. 243-8009 
TAIWAN lnt'l Health Co. expanding into Taiwan in May. Looking for 5 peo­ple interested in this int'l expansion. 271-0912 
Marketing/Promotions -Aggressive: dependable, enthusiastic students and/or non-students needed for Sitverhawks promotional work at each home game. Excellent PIT opportunity for the right individuals. $10-$15 per hour. Call Mr. Becker at ·1-800-334-4897. 
EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­MENT -Discover how to teach basic conversational English in Prague. Budapest & Krakow. Competitive wages + benefits. Seasonal/year-round positions. For more information: (517)336-0640 ext. K55841 
Babysitter needed for delightful 2-year-old boy this summer: M-F days, 20 or more hours per week, 
flexible hours. Transportation provided if needed. Experience/ 
references preferred. $6/hr. Call Jan 243-1058. 
Internet interships in Washington! Journalism, web design, PR, public policy, sales! Call Ben: 202-408­0008 or interns@interactivehq.org 
FOR RENT 
Now Renting Campus View 1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 272-1441 
Second round of leasing at College Park Condominiums. few units still available. Please contact office for appointment 272-0691. 
4 or 5 Bdrm furnished house. wid, sand volleyball. 119 N. St. Peter, 233-9947 
NICE 3 bdr home 2 blks from cam­pus 273-1566 
Need a place to live this summer? Subletting house near campus. 4 bedrooms. Call 273-2910 
College Park Apt. Available for Summer. 243-5323. 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 2773097 
8 BEDROOM HOME 2773097 
Nice 3-4 bdrm, bath & 1/2 house. Unfurnished, 2-car garage, gas heat, WID. 10-mo lease. 
$1,050/mo. Across from park. safe area. 289­5057. 
· 2 College Park Apts avail for sum­mer. 243-5668 · 
FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM­PUS.WASHER/DRYER. FALUSUMMER.272-6551 
1 ,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.GILLI'S PROPERTIES 272-6551 
CLLGE PARK APT FOR SUMMER -BEST OFFER 243-9309 DOMUS PROPERTIES 
NOW LEASING 2 HOMES Capacity from 6 -9 students Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in student populated areas. Completely remodeled and ready for the 98/99 schoolyear. Call Kramer at 674-2571 or 289-5999. 
SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE Lease from June to Aug. 1. All houses are surrounded by other student rentals. Call Kramer at 674­2571 or 289-5999. 
FOR SALE 
SPACIOUS 1BR CONDO walk to campus Call Dianne Killelea 272-5444 
1984 Volkswagen Cabaret convert. 5-speed, 50.000 mi. Stored winters. $2,995. 674-5104 Bob Hull 
For Sale: Convenient condo living just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Recently remodeled including bath­room fixtures. 3 bedrooms, 2 full baths & access to clubhouse with pool & work out room. Call Trace Cole at 243-9565 tor more informa­tion. 
89 PROBE GT, 112K. $3000 OBO. 4-4303 
TICKETS 
For Sale Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows Center Stage -$30 272-7233 
GRADUATION TICKETS WANTED 
Call Dennis @ 288-2423 or 800-915-6293 
PERSONAL 
look at all this junk food ... 
Coming April 1 and 2 
SKALCOHOLIKS 
CD Release parties: 
April 1 -Alumni-Senior Club (21 
and over) 
April 2 -Fieldhouse Mall 
Skalcoholiks' debut CD "look at all 
this junk food ..." will be available 
for$12 
WISH HAPPY #22 TO JOSH AKERS! GOING TO MAKE AD WI PHOTO BUT EXPENSIVE. BUT THE PICTURE WAS HIM IN TIGHT YELLOW SPANDEX BIKER SHIRT. SUPERFL Y INDEED! 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open tor indoor/outdoor play. Students w/ND-SMC ID -1/2 price field fee. 291-2540. 
ADOPTION: Hugs. daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523 All this time you have been 
devoting your talent to stopping 
crime on the West Side when a 
ring of golf cart thieves has been 
wreaking havoc in your own back­
yard. 
BOOCH, Have a GREAT 22nd 
BIRTHDAY!!! 8") 
7 days and counting ... until the Like A Virgin squad takes the bastetballs away from Amazing Grace and Chuck. 
The World is driven by casual flirt­
ing ..... . 
No, the world is driven by one of 
those hamsters running on a little 
wheel. 
Hey Bob! (Oops, maybe I should 
have said Coach instead!) 
Bye Bye Grasshopper, you missed your chance. 
It's all about vulnerability and CON­TROLl 
Hey Divas, I think we are due for a 
Ladies' Night! 
I don't think there is anything wrong with naming a child Phat-Boy. 
One step ahead at all times. When are you going to learn?! 
Really. though, even though you are a little stow, you are wonderful 
Huh! 
Six pages. By 2:15, my feet will be feeling good. 

Tuesday, March 31, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Clevelands kicks off at the King 
Associated Press into their $417 million, "I have to put spring train­retractable-roof stadium in ing behind me and be ready SEATTLE mid-1999, They think their for the season," Nagy said. 
There will be enough memo­new ballpark will do for them Cleveland shook up its ros­ries of disappointment to go economically what Jacobs ter during the winter. In the around at the Kingdome on Field has done for the Indians. biggest move, the Indians Tuesday. Despite losing Matt brought back center fielder For tbe Seattle Mariners, Williams. Marquis Grissom Kenny Lofton to their lineup, there's the frustration of a and Tony Fernandez, the traded to the Atlanta Braves first-round playoff loss to the Indians are favored to win during spring training last Baltimore Orioles. their fourth straight AL year for Marquis Grissom and 
For the Cleveland Indians, Central title as they try and David Justice. there's the empty feeling left make a return trip to the Seattle signed David Segui to by losing Game 7 of the World World Series for the third time play first base in place of Paul Series to the Florida Marlins in four years. Sorrento, who signed with 
after blowing a ninth-inning And the Mariners, led by AL Tampa Bay. lead. MVP Ken Griffey Jr. and All­The Mariners also added 
For Randy Johnson, there's Star shortstop Alex Rodriguez, good-hit, no-field Glenallen the anger created by Seattle's are the favorites to win the AL Hill in left field, where Jose refusal to give him a contract West for the third time in four Cruz Jr. and Roberto Kelly extension or a trade. seasons. played during last season, and 
"I have no choice, but to be Cleveland, which starts Billy Swift to their starting ready," Johnson said. ''I'm Charles Nagy in the opener, rotation. focused on baseball and that's came within two outs of win­Johnson, 34, again is in the what I have to do." ning its first Series title since spotlight. He is making $6 mil­
The Mariners are starting 1948. This spring, the Indians, lion this year and probably their final full season in the beset by pitching problems, will seek a multiyear deal Kingdume. preparing to move were only 12-17. averaging $10 million-plus. 


Aorida's repeat campaign boasts 14 rookies 
Chicago. in the majors, the most veteran pitcher the Phillies and left fielder HenryMarlins' hope of "That's going to be the test of this in the starting rotation. He is joined by Rodriguez from the Expos. 
team, to get better as Wf1 go along," four rookies. They also got center fielder Lanceback-to-back titles Leyland said. The Cubs also underwent an offsea­Johnson and right-hander Mark Clark, Still, the Cubs are taking no chances. son overhaul, the fruits of which who joined the team last August in a
dependent on youth The World Series banner will be should be shown in the debut on trade with the Mets. 
unfurled at Pro Player Stadium before Tuesday. Chicago added six veterans Absent from Tuesday's lineup will be Associated Press the game, a reminder not to be caught in hopes avoiding a repeat of last Grace, a career .310 hitter who fouled off-guard by thfJ little-known names in year's 0-14 start. a ball off his right big toe Sunday in his MIAMI the lineup. The Cubs, who haven't won a World last at-bat of spring. He will be 
After dismantling the World Series World Series MVP Livan Hernandez Series title since 1908 and haven't replaced by Brant Brown. championship team in the offseason to will face Cubs starter Kevin Tapani. been to one since 1945, signed free First base also was a question for the cut in half its payroll, the Marlins are Both finished the 1997 season with a agent shortstop Jeff Blauser from Marlins until Tuesday, when Leyland left with 14 rookies on their 25-man record of 9-3. Atlanta and closer Rod Beck from the named rookie Ryan Jackson as the roster. A torn right rotator cuff on Marlins' Giants. starter over rookie Derrek Lee, who 
And a heavy dose of uncertainty as ace Alex Fernandez has left Through trades, they picked up sec­was acquired in a trade for ace Kevin they opf1n the season Tuesday against Hernandez, with less than a full year ond baseman Mickey Morandini from Brown. 
•. ···"""· 

W NfVt~ DIES Coll~q(at~ Jet~~ ff!-st(valt<(ckoff THV~S. 10 PM 
8~m FR..f./SAT. 8:30/10 PM 
Apr(llst CAVDt~R..lVM·· 
Lafortunf!-Ballroom $2.00 
fR~~ 
Cotl~9icttf!-Jct%r~ f~st(val

All remaining classes will be 
.fr(day N7~ao ~m

canceled today due to the • • 
distraction of half naked sub 5 stod~nts/$10 GA personnel running through Saturday Nll-4 fR~~ Lafortune Ballroom for the 
7:30 ~m 

Upcoming Birthday of next year•s 
stud~ntsl$8. GA 
. . . .• • ... :.···· >;

Board Manager • • · 
@ St~pctn Ct!nt~r 
. . 

Happy Birthday RYAN, Love your .SUBbies 
page 14 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 31, 1998 

The 1.991-98 Student Government Stan would like to thank the manv students, administrators, tacultv, and stan that have helped this vear to be such agreat success. 
Safe Ride Womens Soccer Signs Megaphones@ GTech Pep Rally Student Van Pool Campus Hook-Up Project Warmth Designated Drivers' Card Laundry Guide Student Pep Rally Committee Student Computing Comnnittee Gender Forums Ireland Trophy with BC Campaign Finance Symp<)Sium www.nd.edu/--stugov West Quad Welcome Gifts Fresh 0 Picnic Dulac Revisions Guide to Indiana Alcohol Laws FunShops Reuse-A-Shoe Disability Awareness Week 
_.. Survey of the Student Body 
Campus Promotions & Sponsorship Reports to the Board of Trustees or1 Student Life More Funding for Student Clubs and Organizations Advocate of Increased Campus Social Space Working to Create a Latino Studi~es Program CoResidentiality Discussi,on & MuchMuchMore 
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

and Drive! 

REUS E. 
', 

. 
~ 

ManGriHin 
Student Bodv President 
ErekNass 
Student Bodv VIce President 
Marv Gillard 
Chief ol Stan 

Student Government Stan: Kellv BasingerLoriMrowka Marv Higgins casev Manginelee HambrightDeanene Weiss Bobbv Barron suzv TompkinsAmvRvbak Debbie Dziekan Sarah Grunow Tim Keller Brian Mikullo Sarah Hoffman Jennv Jovce Janzuik Laura Parker Keith Dillhon Viiav ThangamaniAdam Penkhus Andrea Selak Beth Wladvka Katie Beirne Angela Anderson Michelle ViegasSteven Gomez Mark Massoud Brinanv Nvstrom 
-
Christina Grace 

student governn1ent 
Good Luck to the Cesaro/Selak Administration! 
' 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 31, 1998 
W.Tennis 
continued from page 20 
The No. l singles match between Notre Dame's Jennifer llall and Kentucky's Massoumeh Emami was a classic three set battle between two of the top colle­giate tmmis players. 
Emami eventually prevailed in a third set tiebreaker. 3-6, 7-5, 7-6. IIall squan­dl~red a 3-0 lead in the third set, but did not give up without a fight. In last year's match, llall defeated Emami in straight sets, 7-5, 6-1. 
Ooubles again proved to be the differ­ence for the Irish. Although Kentucky and Notre Dame split the first two doubles matches, the Irish were not able to pull out a necessary third win. 
At number one, the Emami and Brown pair defeated Notre Dame's top team of Gates and Hall 8-6. The Irish's second doubles team of Dasso and Velasco pro­vided the lone doubles win. They defeated Kentucky's Sigurski and Skeen 8-6 to secure their victory. 
The final and deciding point of the match came down to third doubles between Kentucky's Herring and Kirk and Notre Dame's Olson and Zalinski. It was a tight match, but Herring and Kirk rallied back from a 3-0 deficit to knock off Notre Dame by an 8-5 margin. 
The women will travel to William and Mary on Saturday to start a long stretch of five away matches before April 21 when they face Indiana in their final home match of the season. 
:aJsl) Women•s Tennis_~~hedulellill"' April 4 at William & Mary ·~-­·:.... ~ 1:00pm AprilS vs. Maryland ·. _ ..;.~"\.'\ -~~ .·... 9:00am April 9 at Wake For ··.. . :~~ < 2:00pm April 11 1:00pm April 13 ~~ g~:~son·· _· ·--~--~--·:··>;~~-~i/ 12:00 pmINDIANA ....... · · ·.·April 21 3:30pm April 23-26 EASTChamPionships TBA May 15-17 a "A Regionals TBA May 21-22 '\!: CHAMPIONSHIPS All Day  
• SPORTS BRIEFS Golf Scramble -Stanford Hall will will meet Sundays from 3 to 4:3(fp.m. be sponsoring a nine-hole golf scramble and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 p.m. in on April 18 for teams of four. Fee is Activity Room 2 of the Rolfs Sports $32 per group. For more information Recreation Center. You must register in call Gene at 4-2049. advance for the class and sign-ups ND Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -Meets began March 19 at RecSports. The fee every Sunday at the Rockne Memorial, is $20 and no experience is necessary. to a.m. to noon in room 219. The club Open to all Notre Dame students, facul­teaches southern Shaolin internal mar­ty and staff. tial arts. whieh include Tang-style Tai Bookstore Basketball -Schedules Chi Chuon and "Five families Five and team packets are available at the Animals" internal Kung Fu. Classes are LaFortune Information Desk. non·eompetitive. and all are weleome Race Judicata-A lOK road rape, to attend regardless of prior training. If 5K road r.ace, and a one mile walk will the above time is inconvenient or if you take place Saturday at 11 a.m. begin­want more information, please call Teo ning at the Law School. Registration at 4-3013 or e-mail ctoodoro@nd.edu. will take place Wednesday, Thursday, Drop-In Volleyball -HecSports will and Friday in the dining halls and at be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Rolfs Recreation Center or on the race Wednesday night for the rest of the day at the Law School. Proceeds will go semester. Play will be from 8 to 11 p.m. to summer fellowships that will fund in the Holfs Sports Recreation Center. law students working for public interest Come by yourself or bring a friend. groups. Cost is $10 in advance and $12 Open to all Notre Dame students, facul­on race day for students. Cost for (acui­ty and staff. ty and staff is $20 in advance l)~Q $25 . Modern Dance -RecSports will be on race day. "' sponsoring a Modern Dance class that  

• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Cardinals host L.A. on first opening day with McGwire 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 
On the field, they'll still look like the same old Los Angeles Dodgers. Of course, Hupert Murdoch has owned the team for less than two weeks. 
With Hamon Martinez on the mound against the Cardinals' Todd Stottlemyre, it will be hard to tell this is the first open­ing day since 1950 that the Dodgers aren't owned by an O'Malley. 
So far, Murdoch's new toy hasn't been without problems. First baseman Eric Karros, out at least 4-to-6 weeks follow­ing arthroscopic knee surgery, will be replaced by Paul Konerko, the1997 minor league player of the year. 
Two outfield spots also eould be manned by fill-ins. Center fielder Hoger Cedeno is on the disabled list with a ham­string injury, and left fielder Todd Hollandsworth also is questionable with a hamstring injury. 
Trenidad Hubbard, who has 184 major­league at-bats while shuttling between the major leagues and Triple-A sinee 1994, will start in center. 
The Cardinals are heading into their first first opening day with Mark MeGwire in the lineup. 
McGwire, who had five 500-foot-plus home runs last year, is the main mason the opener is sold out. McGwire led the team with seven homers in spring train­ing. 
Sophomore Class Cour•cil Applications 
Applications for all Freshmen interested in Sophomore Class Council can be picked up in the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaForturte. 
Questions? Call Hunt Hanover (x1709). 
Help Make Next Year A Great One! 

Treutendous Opportunities. 
Apply your skills using challenging, state-of-the-art, emerging technologies. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower -Raytheon Systems Company -composed of four industry giants: Raytheon E Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems, Hughes Aircraft and Raytheon Electronic Systems. 
The following outstanding opportunities are available with Raytheon Training at our Arlington, TX (a Dallas/Ft. Worth suburb) facility: 
Software & Simulation Engineers 
• 
Responsible lor applying software In engineering methods to develop or modify mathematical models and algorithms to simulate real-time systems 

• 
BS in Math. Physics. Engineering. or a related discipline preferred, along with acomputer engineering background 

• 
Experience in modeling and simulation. real-time applications, system test, and Integration/debug desired 

• 
Experience with any combination of the following Is also desired: FORTRAN. Ada. C, C++. UIMX. UNIX, OS, Windows NT, X-Wlndows, Object -Oriented Design, Peri and VAX/SGIIDEC/Concurrent/Encore/PC environments. 


Interested candidates may forward a resume, Indicating position of Inter­est, to: Raytheon Training, P.O. Box6171, MIS 308, Arlington, TX 76005­6171. E-MAIL: resume@rayjobs.com 
VIsit the Rayth_eon Training Website at: WWW.HTJ.COM or Visit the Raytheon Systems Company Website at: WWW.RAY.JOBS.COM Raytheon Systems Comp1ny 
Raytheon is proud to be an Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Raytheon. 
EXPECT GREAT THINGS 

-
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
they post a 32-4 record over the game. ence, and Mainieri is behind Leatherman and the other vet­the past two seasons. Notre Dame is a veteran his team all the way. erans is that they're such
Baseball 
Illinois-Chicago returns 12 team, capable of success "The key with guys like J.J. solid, solid people that you 
letter winners from last sea­inside and outside the confer-Brock, Todd Frye, Dan just gotta stick with them." ­
continued from page 20 
son's 15-26 campaign. Third 
4.23 
ERA over the same baseman Charlie Annerino stretch. lowering its ERA to and right-handed pitcher Ryan 

5.1 
0. The staff is averaging Aseltine lead the Flames' core 


8.19 strikeouts per nine of returners. innings, its best mark in 30 With three home games years. before this weekend's trip to 
The Irish also have the Boston College, the Irish look home-field advantage, where for consistency in all facets of 
March 31 5:05p.m. April1 5:05p.m. April2 5:05p.m. 
April4 Noon 
AprilS Noon 
April? 5:05p.m. 
April8 5:05p.m. 
April9 1;2:05 p.m.• 
April 11 J~:05 p.m. 
April13 tOO p.m. 
April14 :05p.m. 
April15 Purdue 6:05p.m. 
April 18 at Pittsburgh (2) Noon 
April19 at Pittsburgh Noon 
April 21 at Michigan 7~00 p.m. 
April22 Valparaiso /'6:05p.m. 
April23 Toledo 6:05p.m. 
April 25 at Seton Hall (2 Noon 
April26 at Seton Hall Noon 
April28 Michigan 7:05p.m. 
May 2 West Virginia 12:05 p.m. May 3 West Virginia 12:05 p.m. May9 St. John's (2) ·12:05 p.m. May 10 St. John's p.m. May 13-16 BIG EAST May 21-24 NCAA A May 29-June 6 College. 
Sophomore outfielder Larry Zimolt (above right) hopes to help the Irish slide by Illinois-Chicago today. 

Three Irish athletes given academic awards 
Special to The Observer year ago, owns a 3.952 grade mark during the1997-98 cam­Dean's List during all seven and ranked among the top 10 
point average and will gradu­paign while contributing 25 semesters at Notre Dame. nationally in scoring with 20 
Hockey standout Steve Noble ate in May points. Turner was the leading scor­goals and 18 assists. She start­and soccer players Hyan with a A Rhodes Scholar finalist, er on the Irish men's soccer ed 22 of 23 games for Notre Turner and Jenny Streiffer degree in Noble's GPA ranks among the team, finishing with 12 goals Dame which finished the '97 have been selected to the finance. top five in Notre Dame's and five assists (29 points). The campaign with a 23-1-1 GTE/CoSIDA Academic All­The first Business School. He also was forward had three game-win­record, advancing to the NCAA District V Fall/Winter At-Large three-year one of 12 Notre Dame students ning goals in 1997 and record­national semifinals for the team. They are now eligible for captain in to receive the Campus ed his first career hat trick in fourth consecutive year. national honors which will be the pro­Leadership Award in 1997 and Notre Dame's 4-3 victory over Streiffer, a midfielder, is the announced in April. gram's histo-in addition was one of five TCU. quickest Irish women's soccer 
Noble, a second team selec­ry· finalists for the national A co-captain in '97, Turner, player to reach the 100-point tion to the GTE/CoSIDA senior Hockey Humanitarian Award. who helped the Irish to a 10-9-plateau. In 49 games, she has Academic All-America team a helped the Irish to an18-19-4 Noble has been named to the 2 record, garnered second 124 career points. She tied a 
team all-BIG EAST honors and Notre Dame and BIG EAST 



also was a second-team National Soccer Coaches Association of America (NSCAA) in the Mideast Region. 
He will graduate in May from the College of Business Administration with a degree in finance. Turner was a mem­ber of the BIG EAST Academic All-Star team for the 1996-97 school year and has earned Dean's List distinction all seven semesters. 
Streiffer, a sophomore, tied for team-high scoring honors record with four goals versus Georgetown this past season. 
A member of the U.S. nation­al team program and an alter­nate on the 1996 Olympic team, she was one of 15 final­ists for the '97 Missouri Athletic Club national player of the year. Streiffer also holds the Irish school mark for con­secutive games (11) with either a goal or assist. 
She is enrolled in the pre­professional studies program with a 3.492 grade index. 

Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
TODAY~ March 31~ 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C. S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
Give the earth a reward of its own. Recycle the Observer. 

-
--~----------~-~--~--------­
page 18 
The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 31, 1998 
• SoFTBALL 
King, Irish look to buck Broncos at Kalamazoo 
By BILL HART game roadtrip against division Nichols allowed two hits to start all-time record against the 
but losing the nightcap 2-3. 

Assisranr Spores Ediror rival Hutgers. the seventh before a strikeout, Broncos. Last season, the two 
The first game of the doubl!·­

Despite rallying in the seventh fly ball, and a ground out ended 
teams split a doubleheader at 
header between the Broneo..,

Arter participating in its first to win the first game 5-4. the the game. 
Notre Dame, with the home 
and the Irish begins today at :{

1:onferencP road trip.' the Notre Irish lost the. next two game by Overall, the Irish have a 7-3 
team winning the first game :{-0 p.m.

Dame softball team is looking scores of 9-2 and 5-0. The third 
for a chance r-------, 
to rPbound 
into winning 
form. 
I ;ortu natPiy 
for tlw Irish. 
tllP IH' X t 
opponent on 
the· horizon should pro-
King vide tlwm with just that chance. as Notre Dame takes on Western Michigan today in a non-eonfPr­!HlCI' doubleheader. 
Last season. Western Michigan went a respectable 27-21 for the year and 20-9 in the Mid-Anwrican conference which earned them a second plaee finish. 
llowever. the Broneos have had somewhat less success this year. entering today's eontests on a four game skid and a 4-6 reeord. 
After an impressive swenp of Loyola last Friday, Notre Dame has been struggling with its own eonferenee demons. Last week­end, the Irish opened up their Big East season with a three-
game was especially disappoint­
ing for the team, as they have 
become the victim of a perfect 
ganw for the fir-st time in the 
I{)-year history of Notre Dame's 
softball program. 
In the first game. the Knights 
seomd two runs each in the first 
two innings to take a quick 4-0 
lead. 
There were no other runs scored until the sixth. when a single by Tara King scored Sarah Mathison. In the seventh, senior Jenn Giampaolo doubled and later scored off of two sin­gles by Amy Laboe and Melanie Aikin~. Mathison then added her second single of the game, fol­lowed by a Hutgers error that allowed Laboe to score. 
A hit by King scored another run, and junior Kris McCleary drove in Mathison to complete the comeback and score the winning run. 
Senior pitcher Kelly Niehols pitched the seventh inning to preserve the one-run lead and record her second save of the season and 20th save of her career. a new NCAA record. 

The Observer/John Daily 
The Irish hope to tag out Western Michigan in today's doubleheader. 

--,
TOUR GUIDE I 
I APPLICATIONS I I 
I

Who,: The Adrnissions Office 
I <IWhat: Needs 5 Tour Guides for the 98-I
• 
99 Academic Year I 
I
1 Grace Hall or e-mail 
I
Susan Joyce-joyce.2@nd.edu 
I Apply before Friday, April 1 7 I I 

g(.~ --
~ 
lllliilllt#.... 
2 Tour Guides needed for this Summer Notre Dame Students I Ideally from the south Bend Area 
I 
contact Susan Joyce! 
I I 
.J. 

W.Lax 
continued from page 20 
each. Senior Eilnen Hegan added one goal, and senior rnidfielder Holly Manthei added an assist. Marshall, who against Davidson had a career high with 12 saves, topp1~d that against Duke, saving 14 Blue Devil shots. 
Callahan's two goals yester­day gave her 20 goals and :n points on the season. She now leads the team in both cate­gories. one goal a head of Calabrese and 10 points in front of O'Shaughnessy. The 33 points is also one point higher than Cara Buchanan's 32 point output in the team's inaugural season. 
The loss to Duke marked thn first loss for the Irish on the road this year, and with the win and the loss Notre Dame's record now stands at 5-3. 
The woman\s lacrosse team is back in action next Saturday when they travel to Columbus to take on Ohio State. 
If you need to do some catching up or want to get a jump on fall, summ7r classes a~ Holy Cross Coll~ge may 
be just the ticket. Choose one or both sessions, each offering a wide vanety of quality general educatron 
courses. And pay our summer tuition rate of just $170 per credit hour. 
Take advantage of exceptionally small classes, a dedicated and caring faculty, and our convenient location just
Picked 

to the west of the University of Notre Dame campus. Credit earned is transferable. And on-campus student housing is available.*
~entucky?! 
You'll enjoy summer activities even more, knowing that you're also gett~ng ahead in your studies. 
Gloat with an 
Write or call Holy Cross College today. Applications for Summer Sess1ons I and II, as well as for 
%C t")'', 1!0LY 

the 1998 Fall Semester, are now being accepted. ..·· CROSS 
~~.· .J O>LLECE

Observer 
Session I -May 18 to June 25 Office of Admissions 
-P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556
classified. 
*Session II-June 29 to August 6 
(219) 239-8400, ext. 22 ·, Fax (219) 233-7427 e-mail: hccadmis@gnn.com 

*On-campus student housing available for Session II only 

-------------~---------------------~--------­
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
fALL SE.""JEST£.~. /998... 
~05H, J: LovE: 1'/iiS FLEt-!L! 
PLAN. ·~----------J 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 41 My man1 
1 Epsilon followet 42 Stanley (early auto)
5 Maze cho1ces 43 Pertatntng to
10 D1ner Side dtsh 
element 56 t4 frtbutes '" 
46 Regan'sverse 

POISoner 15 Not far oN 
50 The Ox·Bow 16 March blower lnc1dent. e g 17 Scout1ng unils 54 Freedom w1th1n 18 Pratrte dog? a relationship 20 Its )9b IS taxtng 
55 Queen's SUbJeCt

21 Calligrapher 58 An1mation un11 
22 H1lo hello 59 Play with a dog?
24 Angel perhaps 62 Coors dnnk 28 Made of clay 
advert1sed as 31 H1gh school for ··zometh1ng Hercule diHerent" 32 Great valor 63 Enroll in 36 Kind of trick 64 "Ntxon" dtrector 37 Dog 65 · 1nstant (at tdenttftcatlon? once) 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
MIKE PETERS 


Aries-Watch the reactions of the Libra is a shooting star who can't be people around you and listen to their slowed down. No one can refuse your ideas. This is no time for a dictator-charm and wit, and all courses of ship! Follow the murmurings of all action go smoothly when you're a part those concerned and make decisions of the action. Romance is winking at as a group. you from the corner of the room. 
Taurus -You may enjoy and feel Scorpio -Messages and communi­comfortable in your routine for the cation may be obfuscated by emotion first time in a long while. A facial and and feelings; you must lear'n to read a manicure are the greatest gifts you between· the lines. Delve deeply, mys-can give to yourself. Fight the urge to tical Scorpio. and don't trust that any-overindulge to the point of gluttony. thing is equal to its face value. 
Gemini -Feeling good and flighty. Sometimes giving in is the best solu­your thoughts are on action and a new lion. romance. Focus on your partner and Sagittarius -A good time for provide them with a tower of treats. employing your broad minded. enthu-Feel free to initiate many projects. as siastic personality for group endeav­someone will assist you in their com­ors. You will instantly become the pletion. admired leader and speaker. 
Cancer -Your Ozzie and Harriet Expressing your own hopes and wishes lifestyle may suffer a few unexpected will feel right and will be well­glitches. The 1950's sitcom poses a received. bubble of unrealistic happiness that Capricorn -Be yourself even as was bound to be burst. You will need you put on a performance for someone your strength to pick up the pieces and else. Denying your own needs may resume. seem convenient for now. but there 
Leo -Falling into friendships with will be a price to pay later on. Continue agreeable people always makes for a to network in your spare time. blissful day. Needs you didn't even Aquarius -Friends and compan­know you had will be met by virtual ions sometimes come in the most sur­strangers who won't be strangers for prising packages! You will connect long. Homance. fun. and a frolic with a person who you never thought through life's candy store await you. would share your interests. Ask them 
Virgo -Your credit cards are wilt­to coffee! Explore this new terrain. ing this post-holiday season. Double Pisces-If you have the urge to fall check your impulsive buying habits limp as a milquetoast. go with it. This and reconsider the consequences of isn't the time for making complicated every planned purchase. This isn't like or long-lasting decisions. If you can. you. Virgo! avoid business or legal issues for the 
Ubra -This is as good as it gets. next few days. 


At Drop-In In-Line Skating
.4& 

~ ~~~~~~~; & Thursdays ~~~g~~~~4~~g~~
5 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Non-Marking Wheels Required Helmets Recommended 
u 
TA.K.E THIS  I  OIONT  E  I'D  HI\TE TO  
~  
?OW't.R~UL A.NTI­ KNOW  H.R.  u :a ;. U>  LrvE IN A WOP..LO  
DE.PR.E55ANT  ~ ,  WHERE  

.
DRUG FOR THI\T WI\S
u. 
TI-\E RE5T OF "C ~ ILLEGAL. 
:;,
YOUR LIFE. c 
0>
I "' 
~ 
<9 
66 HliL! 1 

67 Steve Fntt)l'S IS surrOLJ11C1erJ l)y Ihen· 
68 Rema111 undec,ded 
DOWN 

1 H1g1'1 stgns? 
2 Channel sw1mmer Gertrude 
3 Certain 111uscle 4 Donkey s uncle 5 Reduce. as 
expenses 6 Like out of 
hell 7 Scout s rtder 8 More·colossal 9 Noted shock 
)OCk 10 Turbulent tt 1964 Murray 
Sch1sgal play 12 1860 s White 
"Bo&-:.­
PR-OOF 


House name  35 Office  48 Delivery person  56 Respon~e to  
tJ Tolstoy topic t9 Conv1nc1ng  communique 37 Fracture detector  of old 49 Un1vers1ty founder  "Come va?· 57 Former partners 59 Breakfast  
21 Less convmcmg  38 Eve·s  StaAford  drtnks  
23 Sarcastic laugh 25 Comeback 26 Stra1ght 27 Hanoi New Year 29 Gets under  counterpart 39 Smarts 40 Ready for surgery 41 Petroleum meas.  51 Occup1ed 52 F1ts snugly 53 Greek fast food  60 Years and yea·rs 61 24 horas 62 Spice  

one·s sk1n Answers to any three clues 1n thiS puzzle
44 Chinese book of are available by touch-tone phone30 Barga1n1ng divination 1·900-420·5656 (75e per minute)baSIS 45 Blender settmg 
Annual subscnpt1ons are available fo1 the33 M1neral sufftx 
47 "Phedre best of Sunday crosswords from the last 34 Rug vartety playwright SO years 1·888·?·ACROSS 




ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION (ENTER UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME 

SPORTS 
·---~------------­
page 20 Tuesday, March 31, 1998 
• WOMEN'S lACROSSE 
Notre Dame defeats Davidson, falls victim to Duke 
By GENE BRTALlK 
Sporrs Writer 
NotrP Dame women's lacrosse team split the week­t'nd. playing two of the most important games in the team's short history. 
Tlw squad rolled over Davidson Collt~ge before being steamrolled by Duke the fol­lowing day. 
The Irish exacted a measure of revenge Friday against Davidson in return of last year's 21-8 loss. They defeated their rival 18-11 for the new program's biggest win. 
The game started quickly whPn senior attacker Mara Grace scored her first of two goals 45 seconds into the game. 
The Wildcats respondPd immediately by scoring two goals in tlw nt~xt four minutp,s and taking a 2-1 lead. As they did against the Duquense last Tuesday. the Irish decided it was time to "step up" and erupted for nine unanswered goals over the next 17:30. 
Leading the way for the Irish once again was freshman Courtney Calabrese. who had one assist and scored five goals, two of which came dur­ing the nine goal output. Freshman attacker Lael O'Shaughnessy chipped in with four goals and one assist. 
Davidson finally broke its scortdess streak at the 7:45 
mark and then netted one more goal to close the score to 10-4. 
Calabrese and O'Shaughnessy went to work again. combining for three goals to close out the half and give Notre Dame a nine goal advantage heading into the second half. 
The Wildcats regrouped and came out to score four goals in the first 6:49 of the second half. trimming the Irish's lead to 13-8. The Irish responded again with two more goals over the next 2:23 to take a 16-8 advantage. 
Kerry Callahan recorded six points (three goals and three assists) during the contest. and freshman goalkeeper Carrie Marshall made a career high 12 saves. 
From that point on. the Irish never looked back and rolled on to a seven-point victory. 
The Irish had a day off before they played in their biggest game of the season against No. 5 Duke. The Blue Devils were the first ranked team that the women's lacrosse team has yet played. 
Duke was entering the game riding on a three game win streak a day after knocking off the No. 11 Georgetown Hoyas and followed through against the Irish as well. 
The Blue Devils came into the game prepared and scored the game's first seven goals in the 
• BASEBALL 
Brock closes in on Counsell's record 
By ALLISON KRILLA Associate Sports Editor 
The similarities between Irish shortstop J.J. Brock and 1997 World Sol'ies hero Craig Counsell are striking. 
Their n~sumes include Nolrtl Dame baseball team captain, 6-foot, 170-some­thing pound infielder, and noticeably rising stats in each of four seasons. 
"If you look at [Brock's} numbers. and you compare his numbers to Craig Counsell's in his first three years. they're very compara­ble," said head coach Paul
.... 
Mainieri. ~Counsell's fourth year at Notre Dame was when he started to show the power; he had 12 home runs in his senior year." 
And it is Brock who has l;lroken out in his senior year, with seven home runs in the first 24 games of the season. one less than his caroer total 
(8). 
"This is J .J .'s fourth year with us. and in every year he's been a slow starter," said Mainieri. "I know that when we get 20 games into it. 
LJ. Brock is going to be into it as well as anyone. But you can't make your judgments on him after 10 or 15 games, because if you did, I would've given up on him after his sophomore year." 
In a scorching series at tho plate against Georgetown. Brock went 9-for-14 with three homPrs, 10 RBI. eight runs scored and 22 total bases. 
Brock's 230 hits put him eighth on the Irish career list. five behind Counsell; his 14th triple in the fourth inning of Sunday's 10-2 win over Georgetown put him into a tie for second with Shaun Fitzmaurice on the all-time list. 
Brock will lead the Irish against Illinois-Chicago tonight at Frank Eck Stadium in a 5:05 p.m. contest. 
Notre Dame enters the game with a .313 team bat­ting average and .511 slug­ging percentage, following an eight-game homestand in which the team batted .375. 
The pitching staff used a 
see BASEBALL/ page 17 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Kathryn Perella and company picked up a win against Davidson but dropped one to Duke in weekend play. 
first ten minutes. of the half. Tho Irish pulled Irish 12-3 in the second half. 
Irish head coach Tracy Coyne within five goals at halftime. Leading the way for the Irish encouraged her team to tighten The beginning of the second were Callahan and junior up on the defensive end, and half startPd much like the first, Stephanie Fox with two goals the women responded by hold-with Duke scoring the first five ing Duke scoreless for the rest goals and then outscoring the 
see W.LAX I page 18 

• WOMEN's TENNIS 
Wildcats claw through Irish 
Kirk. 
By TIM CASEY  Irish ended the singles matdws  of tlw Irish in both of their losses  
Sports Writer  by losing the final two matches  the past two years. Last year.  
in three sets. Kentucky's third  !!erring defeated Cates at third  
All year long, the women's ten­ singles player Kathy Herring  singles in straight sets.  
nis team has been involved in  rebounded from a first set loss to  The No. 1 singles match  
tight matches against nationally  defeat Marisa Velasco, 1-6, 6-4.  
ranked opponents. Saturday's match was no  6-4. llerring has bet>n a nemesis  see W.TENNIS I page !6  
oxception, but this time the 16th  
ranked Irish were on the losing  
end, suffering a 5-4 loss to  
Kentucky. The defeat dropped  
the Irish's record to 12-6 on the  
yPar.  
Kentucky gained an early 1-0  
lead with a win at No. 6 singles.  
Brooke Skeen defeated Kelley  
Olson in straight sets 7-5, 6-1.  
Skeen, a freshman, was ranked  
in the top 100 in the nation as a  
junior player last year.  
The Irish fought back with  
wins at second, fourth and fifth  
singles to take a 3-1 advantage.  
Second singles player Michelle  
Dasso scored a tough three set  
victory over Kelly Brown 6-0, 5­ 
7. 6-3. With her win, Dasso  
improved her collegiate dual  
match record to a perfect 17-0.  
At fourth singles, senior Tifl'any  
Gates rebounded from a loss in  
last year's match, with a 6-4, 6-2  
defeat of Christy Sigurski. Kelly  
Zalinski won her second consec­ 
utive match at fifth singles by a  
6-4, 6-4 margin over Carolina  Photo Courtesy of Notre Sports Information  

Marisa Velasco struggled against Kentucky in a three-set loss to Kathy

Following the thrPe wins, the Herring. 

vs. Illinois-Chicago, Today, 5:05p.m. 
a;

• vs. Burler and Miami, •Softball prepares for WMU
April4at. Western Michigan, 

'C 
see page 18Today, 3 p.m. 

Softball at Hope College, 
....... 

·4;....-April I, 3 p.m. 
at Ohio State, 
s" ~ 
• Kentucky, Tennessee win 1998 NCAA 

April 4, I p.m. 
Tennis at Hope College, 
men's and women's crowns 

vs. Ohio State, 4;....-April I, 3 p.m. ~
s" 
st:e page 12

April I, 3 p.m. 




