
Monday, February 23, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 97 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND, SMC kick off Eating Disorders Awareness Week 
By ARIANN BUTLER 
News Writer 
Eating Disorders Awareness Week began yesterday on both Notre Dame's and Saint Mary's campuses. 
Representatives from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's cited the need for an eating disorder awareness week on the campuses. 
"Eating disorders affect more women than men and since we're an all-women's college, we are more sensitive to women's needs," said Chris Pendley, assistant director of Counseling and Career Development at Saint Mary's College. 
"We sec Notre Dame as a breeding ground for eating disorders due to competitiveness and gender issues," said Kelly McMahon, a student co­chairwoman of the Women's Resource Center. 
Eating Disorders Awareness Week is being sponsored by Notre Dame's Women's Hesource Center and the University Counseling Center, as well as the Counseling and Career Development Center at Saint Mary's. 
Both organizations hope this week will bring awareness and will educate people about eating disorders on both campuses. 
Last night marked the commence­ment of the week at Notre Dame. The first of a three-part lecture series on eating disorders was held at LaFortune Student Center; following was a candlelight walk to Walsh Hall. 
Other events this week include an informational question and answer session held in the Foster Room of LaFortune from 7 p.m. to 8 p.m. today and tomorrow. A Borders Bookstore trip is planned for tomor­row evening. Students interested in attending should meet at the library circle at 7:45 p.m. Following the trip students will share personal stories and answer questions. 
In addition to these planned events, informational leaflets will be available all week in the dining halls and on the first floor of LaFortune. A film presentation entitled "Size It Up: Eating Disorders" will be also be shown tomorrow. 
Saint Mary's College began the 
week's activities yes­terday with guest speaker Becky Cook, a counselor from the Healthy Options for Problem Eaters, a counseling program at Memorial Hospital. Cook discussed the consequences of diet­ing and how to main­tain healthy eating patterns. 
On Wednesday from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m., the Counseling and Career Development Center will host an eating disorder screening in 170 LeMans Hall, the stu­dent affairs confer­ence room. This pro­gram will provide stu­
JUNIOR P..ii~::•~D 1998 
.,.. ,::,,';}:.' < 
Memories of dPW ••• 
N
otre Dame juniors spent the weekend at Junior Parents' Weekend activities. The weekend gave juniors a chance to talk, dance, eat and relax. 
Above: Juniors and parents engage in conversation at the JPW dinner, held Saturday night in the Jovce Center. The main speaker for the dinner was University President Edward Malloy, and the Notre Dame Glee Club provided entertainment for the event. 
Right: A father and daughter pair dance at the JPW gala, held Friday night. 
Below: The JPW gala provided a look at array of cultures and countries. International food and music was part of the event. 
• BLACK HISTORY MoNTH 
Blak Kofee House produces variety of artistic expression 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY News Writer 
A packed house gathered in semi-for­mal dress Saturday night to listen to the poetry, music, monologues and reflec­tions of the Notre Dame African­American community in the 1998 produc­tion of Blak Kofee House. 
This year's show, "Meditations of the People," encouraged the audience to reflect on the issues facing the African­American community. Leading the evening's meditations were junior co­hosts Kimberly Farrow and Jimmy Friday . 
The Black Cultural Arts Festival spon­sored the show, which was open to all students who wished to express them­selves in the intimate coffee house set­ting. 
"I thought the show went well," raved BCAF secretary Ayana Fakhir after the show. "It appeared as though the people loved the show, and the artists gave their heart and soul to the performance." 
Friendship, love, prejudice, education and hope were among the themes cov­ered by the performers in the LaFortune Ballroom. Musical acts were given by Vibe, a 10-piece student ensemble; junior Seisha Keith; and Chandra Johnson, assistant director of Campus Ministry. 
Fakhir and freshmen Charlyn Henderson gave monologues from African-American literature and speech­es. Fakhir delivered a speech entitled, "An Address to the Slaves of the United States of America," originally given by Henry Hiland Garnet at the National Negro Conference in Buffalo, N.Y., in 1843. Henderson presented works by Maya Aagelou and Sojourner Truth. 
Several student poets recited their works for the crowd. 
"United we stand, divided we still stand," said junior Ramadan Ameen in his poem "Words Cannot Express What Words Cannot Express." 
Amidst the music and poetry was the presentation of the Thurgood Marshall Scholarship. The award honors two first year African-American students for out-
see KOFEE I page 4 

screening results. Eating disorder screenings will also be available at Health Services on a walk-in basis, except during doctor's clinic hours. Handouts will be available in the reception area. 
L___________ --­

Monday, February 23, 1998
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN ;r·-·---.....__ r, 
Shades of Gray \,~ "li\Outside the D~ome 
'-'--. _.~--,r~\
\-1 ·" Compiled from U-Wire reports 
The color gray has always fascinated me. In terms of paint, it is the mixture of both the con­solidation and absence of eolor. black and white. The shades in between range from lightly eare­fren to medium ealm to 

darkly brooding, and Colleen Gaughen 
evnry level of blending Assistant Viewpoint Editor 
ean correspond to and 
exprnss an emotion. 
It's bn1m gray around hem. The sun is 
through flirting, it's been rainy, and we've once 
again fallen into the inescapable groove of tests 
and papers and labs and projects. 
We did enjoy a bit of sunlight this weekend, 
and I like to think it's beeausn my mom 
brought it with her from the California eoast. 
See, shn is my sunshine through my many 
shades of gray, and without her, there would 
bn only douds. 
This is the time of year when friends and 
roommates start to gradually get on each oth­
ers' nerves, tempers arc strained, and we feel 
the itch to rearrange our rooms for the simple 
sake of change. 
Ash Wednesday is also this week, and the 
richness of this shade of gray is quite appropri­
ate for this time of the year. Whether you're 
Catholic or not, Lent is still a season of taking a 
look at yourself and your relationships to oth­
ers. It's a time of Gleaning out your emotional 
dosets, making amends, and renewing your 
faith in whatever it is you believe. 
I.ife gets confusing. We meet people, things 
happen, bonds are made and broken, and we 
get too busy to talk about why, if we even care 
at all. Our shades deepen from the delicacy of 
light frnedom to the depths of muddy misun­
derstanding. Like the clash of splattering paint 
on a canvas, our emotions are rocked and 
shifted. Yet instead of talking it through, we 
simply cover the canvas with a sheet and walk 
away. 
We are coming at each other from all kinds 
of angles, with all kinds of histories, and the 
only way to clear the air is to communicate our 
frustrations, be they in friendships, dorm situa­
tions, family life, or that wonderfully gray area 
of romance. 
It's okay to call someone. It's okay to write a 
quick e-mail suggesting a chat over coffee. We 
are so paranoid about communicating with 
people around hem. Everything doesn't have to 
be such a big deal. It becomes a saga only 
when we ignore each other and allow our tiny 
wounds to fester with frustration. 
My dose friends and I had a night of getting 
everything out on the table last week, and 
through the tearful honesty and relieving 
laughter, our friendship only grew stronger. 
Lent is 40 days ofsacrifice and while we may 
have to suffer with the idiocracy of no bacon 
bits in the dining halls on Fridays, we must 
remember that the end of the season culmi­
nates in the glorious resurrection of our Lord 
in the spirit of the riehest shade of all: 
Forgiveness. 
So rnach out and touch somebody. Contact 
that someone who's been lurking in the back of 
your mind, that person you hurt or hurt you. 
Hnsolve your issues instead ofjust having 
them. If you just don't have the time, make it. 
Find your sunshine through your shades of 
gray. And if you are lucky enough to be cruis­
ing along through life, become someone's sun­
shine. 
They may need some more than you know. 
The lliews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obserl!er. 
•  TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Kristi Klitsch  Nate Wills  
Christopher Shipley  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Tom Roland  
Sports  Production  
Mike Day  Mike Day  
Betsy Baker  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  John Daily  
Kelly Brooks  Joe Stark  

Th< Obscrv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday cxcepl during exam and vacalion periods. The Obs~rver is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Court date set for trial of serial killer's formt~r fiancee 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
A court date has been set for March 6 to find out why Sondra London, the former fiancee of convicted serial killer Danny Rolling, is refusing to disclose the amount of money she has made selling merchandise from the student murders. 
Florida Assistant Attorney General George Waas said London is violating a court order to produce the information and that her claim she is "confused" by the order is bogus. 
"To me, it's clear as a bell," Waas said. "She needs to make an account­ing immediately or face the conse­quences -possibly contempt of court." 
The judgment handed down on Dec. 31 by Circuit Judge Martha Ann Lott required London to file a court accounting of all the money she has made selling the book "The Making of a Serial Killer," as well as the art and autographs Rolling mails to her from 
• BROWN UNIVERSITY 
Administrators stall on labor issue 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
Brown administrators yesterday declined to endorse a code of conduct offered by the Student Labor Alliance (SLA) which proposed that all Brown paraphernalia be produced under safe labor conditions. Administrators said they were reserving judgment on the proposal until further details could be ironed out and until senior administrators could review the SLA's recommendations. "Since we don't make as much money ofT our apparel like Duke and Notre Dame, we would need to share the costs of a monitoring agency with other schools," said Carr. "There is no sense in putting up a lot of speculation if we are unable to enforce the policy. It is basically the question of the chicken and the egg. We need a workable and comfortable policy. However, we all agree that we need a number of schools to share the costs.The SLA's proposed code of conduct is more inclusive than the ones passed by Duke and Notre Dame. Members of the alliance hope to include a provision requiring manufactur­ers to pay their employees "decent living wages." 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAliFORNIA-BERKElEY 
Professor finds archaeological mystery 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
A UC Berkeley professor has found evidence that the first humans to inhabit America may have come before the Ice Age, much earlier than previous studies have concluded. Johanna Nichols, a linguist and professor of Slavic studies, also found that, contrary to common belief, the Americas were populated from the south. Nichols presented her find­ings at the American Association for the Advancement of Science conference in Philadelphia on Monday. She integrat­ed archaeological findings with her own linguistic research to reach the conclusion that America's first inhabitants migrated to the continent before the glacial period. Currently, archaeological, anthropological and biological evidence only shows that the Americas were populated after the Ice Age. Nichols' belief stems from the recent archaeo­logical discovery of the Monte Verde site in Chile, which archaeologists have found to be 12,500 years old. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperaiUres 
'-.., /,t{.:............................... .!",,..... !  H  L  
!  
Mond~y  ~52  36  

L
Tuesday 4, 50 38 Wednesday~ 42 32 Thur~day ~56 37 Friday ;. ·. ~ 41 30 
' ,,, ' 
~··--.' "'-..-J ·v' 
~~~uuu ~ ~ u 
......... ' ''..... :. :.,', ·:·.:::·.::=· -::...-::...-::... 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloud' Cloudy Via AssociatfKI Press Graph/CSNet 

death row. 
On Jan. 6, London filed an account­ing that said she made $5,000 from two books she sold to the publisher Feral House. 
According to Waas, that amount is at least $15,000 short. London allegedly received that amount for a 1994 article she wrote for the Globe tabloid. 
That $15,000 is being held in London's former attorney's trust account. 
Waas said attorney Lloyd Vipperman withdrew from the case, and apparent­ly London is representing herself in 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 23. 
Lines separate high temperature zone:. for the day. 
FRONTS: 
"T""'r .....__._ .......ar 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 

HIGH LOW V1.11 Assoc1ated Press  SHOWERS  RAIN  T·STORMS FLURRIES  SNOW  I~E  SUNNY  PT CLOUDY  
Atlanta Baltimore Chicago Columbus Dallas  47 44 45 44 74  44 35 34 35 45  Denver 53 Houston 75 Honolulu 81 Indianapolis 46 Los Angeles 59  2f 41 61 3~ 5(  Miami New York Phoenix St. Louis Wash., D.C.  75 45 70 55 44  

• DARTMOUTH COLLEGE 
Police investigate racial slur 
HANOVEH, N.H. 
An investigation is currently underway by Safety and Security and the Hanover Police into a racial slur found on the door frame of a Channing Cox apartment of four under­graduate females, stating "Death tJ You" underneath a Star of David. The markings were fou 1d on Tuesday by one of the four female residents of the ap 1rtment-three of whom consider themselves Jewish -at around 5 p.m. The mes­sage was clearly written in black ink and small in size, according to one of the residents, all of whom wish to remain anonymous. Yesterday, a ;econd Star of David was found on a nearby door frame by a custodian, written with what appeared to be the same p£ n, according to one resi­dent. But this time there was no slur or offensive remark attached. Safety and Security and the Hanover Police were notified of the slur's existence shortly afterward. and both departments are proceeding with a formal investigation into "criminally threatening behavior motivated by hostility based on race." 
• MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY 
Shooting suspect Evades police 
MILWAUKEE, Wis. 
The Milwaukee Police Department has issued a nation­al warrant for the individual v!}w shot at undercover police officers near the intersection of North 19th Street and Kilbourn Avenue Feb. 10, according to Lt. James Ardis. Officers continue to sea1 ch for the suspeet and emphasize they arc confident they will find him. "We will apprehend him," Ardis said. " can't give you a time frame as of now, but we will." Ta.sk forces in every major metropolitan area have the sw;pect's picture and are looking for him, Ardis said. 1 he individual is being sought after allegedly firing five shots at an undcreover police car as the officers drove away from a 19th Street house on the afternoon of Feb. n. No one was injured in the incident. The suspect fled He scene in a three-tone blue Dodge Caravan with a 24-~'ear-old individual after the shooting. 
court. 
In that same aecounting filnd .Jan. 6, London rcqw•sted 30 morn days to "go through records and re-create mcords to make an 'l.ccurate accounting" of profits she lu.s made from the art and autographs. 
Although it has been more than :~0 days, Londor has failed to make that accounting or turn over any money to the court. 
Lott's judgment ruled that London has a "unicue" relationship with Holling, then fore making it illP-gal for her to profit from his erimns under Florida's "Son of Sam" law. 
According to that law, neither a eon­victed crimin.tl nor persons aeting "on the behalf" )f a criminal can profit from the account of a <:rime. 
Rolling-who pleaded guilty to mutilating and stabbing to death fivr. Gainesville cc liege studnnts in 1990 ­is challenging that law. 
CLOUDY 
74 32 51 36 36 


Monday, February 23, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


'Offending the Audience' premiers at Little Theater 
By ARIANN BUTLER expecting a typical play with a News Writer story line and plot," said senior Katie Diestalkamp about the 
"OfTending the Audience" was play. the purpose and title of the play Junior Katie Wagner had a performed last night in the Little slightly difTerent reaction. Theatnr of the Moreau Center "The play was unique and for thn Performing Arts at Saint interesting," she said. "Parts of Mary's College. it were really funny but it was 
Saint Mary's faculty members hard to keep my attention. If it Tnd Billy, associate professor of was shorter it would have had a English; Henne Kingcafd, associ­bigger impact." ate professor of French; Katie Sophomore Catherine Flan­Sullivan. nery agreed with assis tan t pro-this sentiment. fessor of the­"I thought the ater, and Max ' A VERY INTERESTING play made the 
fiAND UNIQUE EXPERI­
Westler. asso­audience too ciate profes­aware of their 
ENCE. I CAME EXPECTING A
sor of English own world," she performed in TYPICAL PLAY WITH A STORY said. the play. The idea of the 
LINE AND PLOT.'
"Offending play and its per­the Audience" formance in the was written 
KA11E DIESTALKAMP Little Theater by Austrian came from Billy SAINT MARY's COLLEGE SENIOR and Sullivan. All
playwright Peter Handke the performers in the 1<J60s. expressed the fun It is an anti-they had in per­theatrical piece, in which the forming the play. characters reveal from the "It was fun to discover the beginning that the play has no poetry in the words and to play hidden messages, no symbolic off the energy of each other and representation and no double the audience," said Kingcaid. meaning. In addition. the play Westler continued this senti­has no plot, climax, nor anti-cli­ment. matic scenes. Its purpose is to "It was fun to interact and be oiTm1d the audience, and this is so closely dependent on the accomplished in a humorous other three performers, defi­fashion through direct insults to nitely a different kind of experi­the audience and its refusal to ence," he said. be used by the audience as an The Department of English, escape from reality. modern languages, communica­
"A very interesting and tion, dance, and theater jointly unique experience. I came sponsored the play. 
ITlliCB C])[b~(BlP\YCBlP8 
\JJCB~CB ~CD(t; fi~~illCB~ 
Gettin' jiggy wit it ••• 

Happf. Belated 
21 st Birthda~ ~4evt4 
*Ae~nt! 
One Night Badminton Tournament 
Friday, February 27 6:30PM 

Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 
Register in Advance at RecSports Singles & Doubles Divisions Sign-Ups Begin February J7 Deadline for Entering is February 26 
,...------------------~----------------------------~------~~-----~---------­
Incoming editor-in-chief names new General Board 
By ALLISON KOENIG Mardi Gras Correspondent 
Observer editor-in-chief 
elect llnather Cocks 
announced the members of the 
I998-99 General Board yester­
day. 
Joining managing editor Brian Hninthaler and assistant managing editor Heather MacKnnzin arn Editorial Board Members: 
• 
Matthew Loughran, news editor. Loughran is a fifth-year snnior from Washington, D.C., who resides in Campus Vinw. lie is a government/interna­tional studies major, and cur­rently serves as associate news editor. 

• 
Kathleen Lopez, sports nditor. Lopez. a junior from Littleton. Colo.. livns in Walsh Jlall. She is an American stud­ies major and currently serves as assistant sports editor. 

• 
Sarah Dylag and Krist.i Klit.sch. accent editors. Dylag. from Strongsville. Ohio, and Klitsch, from Des Moinf~s. Iowa, are both juniors who live in McGlinn llall. 1:hey are both American studies and Spanish double majors. Dylag is cur­rently a sports copy editor and news wire editor. and Klitsch is an assistant news editor. 

• 
Eddie Llull, viewpoint edi­tor. Llull. a junior from Pacifica, Calif .. lives in Zahm llall. A philosophy and history double major. Llull currently serves as associate viewpoint editor. · 

• 
Kevin Datum. photo editor. A sophomore from Marshfield, Wis•., Dalum lives in Carroll Jlall. lie is an anthropology major and currently serves as news photo editor. 


.Joining 1998-99 business manager Kyle Carlin arc Operations Board nwmbers: 
• 
Katie Kroener, design manager. Knwner is a junior from Dallas. Texas, who lives in Badin llall. A graphic design major, she is currently photo editor. 

• 
Kris Klein. advertising managnr. Klein, a sophomore from Ulysses, Kan., lives in Morrissey llall. A history and computnr applications double major, he is currently an advertising account exncutive. 

• 
Brett lluelat.. advertising 


Come to: 
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL 515 Lincolnway West 
South Bend, IN 46601-1117 
Pittsburg, Kan., is a sopho­moro who lives in Keenan llall. A business major, he is currently an ad design assis­tant. 
• 
Michael Brouillet, systems manager. Brouillet, a junior from Simsbury, Conn., lives in Morrissey llall. lie is a com­puter science major and has been systems managnr for one and a half years. 

• 
Jennifer Breslow, Web administrator. Breslow is a junior from Katonah, N.Y., and she lives in Lewis Hall. She is a graphic design and communi­cations double major, and is currently the advertising design manager. 

• 
David Rogero, controller. A sophomore who lives in Keough Hall, Rogero is from Centerville, Ohio. He is an accounting major who has held similar positions with Student Union Board and the Council for International Business Development. 


All general board members will take over these positions after spring break. 
Kofee 
continued from page 1 
standing academic performance and communi­ty service. The male and female recipients can­not be varsity athletes and must demonstrate financial need. 
This year's recipients were Michael A. Brown from O'Neill Family Hall and Meloney Moore from Pasquerilla West. 
Brown was recognized for his work in minor­ity recruitment and Moore for her work as offi­cial choreographer for the BCAF fashion show. Both will receive $500 for their college educa­tion as a result of their commitment to the African-American community at Notre Dame. 
The artwork of freshmen Belinda Bryant and Alan Easter was put on display for the audi­ence to enjoy during the show's intermission. Both students were given the chance to show their art for the first time in two specially cre­ated structures. Their artwork is now on dis­play in the concourse of the Hesburgh Library. 
Local talent was also featured in the show. Two South Bend musicians, T Swang and J.D., performed their hip hop song, "I Wanna Know." The group, which combines rhythm and blues and rap in their music, has already had playing time on a local radio station. 
Johnson ended the show by reminding the audience to remember three things. "You are black first, brilliant second, and blessed always," Johnson told the crowd. Blak Kofee House in an annual event held on Junior Parent's Weekend. 

Monday-Thursday: 7:30am to Midnight Friday: 7:30am to 7:00pm The Copy Shop • LaFortune Student Center Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight Notre Dame, IN 46556 • 631·2679 
You could earn: 
$20°0 after your first plasma donation! 
$15°0 if you donate alone (first visit) 
+ 
$5°0 if you show college !.D. (first visit) $20°0 TOTAL! 

+ 
$1 0°0 per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice. 


HELP US SAVE LIVE-~ 
~,!i-:' «A· 
Must be 18 years old; proofof current address with photo I.D. 
Hours: Tu-F: 9:00-6:00 Sat: 8:00 -5:00 Ph. 234-6010 
The Observer/Michelle Keefe Senior Erik Burrell shares his poem "A Toast to My Black Family" at the Blak Kofee House this past week­end. 
TOUGH CR~~WD? 
See What The COJ)Y Shop Can Do For Yf)ur Presentatior1s 
High-Speed Copies. Color Copies. Binding. Laminating. Fax. Collating. Stapling. Friendly Service. Open Early, Late, & Weekends. Free Pick-Up & Delivery. What More Could You Want? 
When you bring your presentation materials to The Copy Shop, you don't have to worry about getting them back on time or about how :hey will look. We make sure our customers are happy, because if you're happy, we're happy. 
utoRLo F.,mov~ (Jt'1~~~~ GoLO~K 0RKJOK AROMT~ 
Frftlay, February 27 7:00pm Stepan Center 
S3 Notre Dame/Saint Mary's/ Holy Cross S5 General 
••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• u ••••••••• 

at the Door 
I 

Monday, February 23, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Shootings disrupt Mardi Gras celebrations in Texas 
GALVESTON, Texas 
Police arrested a 1.9-year-old man early Sunday and accused him of killing one per­son and wounding four others when he shot into a crowd of revelers after a Mardi Gras parade. The Houston man, whose name was not released, was accused of firing a hand­gun around 10 p.m. Saturday, just two hours after a Mardi Gras parade snaked through an estimated 100,000 spectators. Oscar Manuel Nava. 19, of Houston. was killed, said acting police chief Kim Schoolcraft. Two 20-year-old men, a 16-year-old girl and a 14-year-old boy -all from Houston -were tn~ated at a hospital and remained there Sunday in conditions ranging from fair to good. Authorities did not speculate 'on a motive for the shooting. but it was believed the vietims knew the suspect. He !led the scene and was arrested early Sunday morn­ing. Another shooting erupted minutes after the first Saturday night, One man was slight­ly injured but declined to press charges. "When you have that many people in that small of an an~a with alcohol and everything that goes in assoCiation with Mardi Gras, it was one of thosn things that was going to happen," said Texas Department of Public Safety trooper Hichard Vassar. "It was just a matter of time." 
CIA admits responsibility for Bay of Pigs mistakes 
NEWYOHK 
Ignorance, incompetence and arrogance. That's the CIA's own assnssmnnt of its faults in the 1961 Bay of Pigs debacle. Small wondPr that the spy agency guard­ed one of the Cold War's most secret documents so jealously for so long. The 
150-page report. released after more than 
thre11 decades in the CIA director's safe, 
blam11d th•~ disastrous attempt to oust Fidel 
Castro not on President--John F. Kennedy's 
failure to baek the invaders with air strikes, 
but on the agnney itself. The CIA's ignoranee, 
ineompetnnco. and arrogance toward the 
1.400 Cuban exiles it trained and equipped to mount th1~ invasion was responsible for the fiasco, said thn report, obtained by The Associated Press on Saturday. "The funda­mnntal eause of tlw disaster was the agency's failure to give the project, notwithstanding its importanee and immense potentiality for damage to thP UnitNI States, the top-flight handling which it required," the report said. Despite U.S. news articles linking the United States with a plan to invade Cuba, the $46 million projeet went forward under the "pathetic illusion" of deniability, the report said. 
1~1PM§IIMf&iW!Il•M 

AMEX: 
689.19
Dow 
+0.33 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1728.13
8413.94 
+ 1.12 
If 
NYSE: 
537.49 
+2.48 
S&P 500: 
Composite 
I 034.31 Volume: 
~38.36 +5.93 597,000,000 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
nlMC6tli~ Ilr~~B "ltl II·~:Sid 1 Ci61:t:i I.!BICE 
lllERMATRIX INC fMXI 39.29 0.6875 2.438 SUNDANCE HOMES SUNil 35.29 0.7500 2.875 F.l.RON El.ECTR-WTS ELRWF 33.33 1.2500 5.000 ENHANCED SERVICE ESVS 26.32 0.6250 3.000 MEADOWBROOK RHEA MHHK 26.09 0.7500 3.625 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
IIIR5CII INTL·A IIRSII 47.98 10.3750 11.250 BRILLIANT DIGITA R/1E 47.42 2.8750 3.818 PMR CORPORATION /'MRI' 33.33 6.1875 12.380 CIENACORP CIEN 27.7-! 16.1250 42.000 CELLEt;Y PIIARM·Wf CLGYW 23.80 0.6250 2.000 
U.N.-Iraqi pact eases tension 
Hussein grants access to presidential palaces; US. has 'serious questions' 
AssOCIATED PRESS 
BAGHDAD, Iraq 
In a breakthrough that could avert a U.S.-led attack on Iraq, U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan struck a deal Sunday with Saddam Hussein on the core issue of the 4 1/2-month Iraqi crisis: opening Saddam's presidential compounds to U.N. arms inspectors. 
U.N. and Iraqi officials provided few details of the accord, which the United States still has not approved. 
Annan's spokesman, Fred Eckhard, said it assured the rights of U.N. inspectors and didn't include a time limit on inspections. The United States had vigorously opposed such a limit, and agreement on that point reportedly was clinched only when Annan met Saddam for three hours Sunday afternoon. 
Eckhard said he expected the deal would fly with the United States and other U.N. Security Council members. U.S. officials said they didn't have a full text of the accord and still had "seri­ous questions." 
Nevertheless, Annan and Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz scheduled a ceremony at 
10:30 a.m. (2:30 a.m. EST) Monday to sign the deal, which Annan will present Tuesday to the Security Council. ­
An accord endorsed by the Security Council would save Iraq from a punishing U.S. air attack, and save Washington from strong international opposition to such a strike. It would also be a tri­umph for Annan -if the Iraqis hold to the bar­gain. 
Annan's deal-making meeting with Saddam took place on the third day of his visit, at the Hepublican Palace, one of eight presidential sites that Iraq had deelared off-limits to U.N. weapons inspectors. 
"We've reached an agreement," Eckhard said. "We have a text." 
One Iraqi official, who also insisted his named not be used, was asked whether there was a deal. He replied, "Yes." 
Eckhard said, "We expect the text will be acceptable to all 15 members of the Security Council," including the United States, which has said it Albright could not make a judgment about the accord would refuse an agreement that it believes undermines because she did not receive a "comprehensive assess­the inspectors' authority. ment" from Annan, Rubin said. 
White House spokesman Mike McCurry said preliminary The crisis over weapons inspections has brought the accounts had been received from Baghdad, but he Persian Gulf to the brink of war. The United States has 
. refused to assess them. "We've got a lot of serious ques­sent a naval armada and 25,000 troops to the region to tions. It's a very serious matter at a serious time, and we mount air strikes unless Iraq agrees to open all sites, want to get some questions answered," he said. including presidential palaces, to the weapons inspectors. 
U.S. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright had "a short Pro-Iraq protests have erupted across 'the Arab world phone briefing" with Annan on Sunday, and then began -Jordan had to send out tanks Sunday in one desert city her own consultations with the French and British foreign to contain them -and sent Israelis scurrying for gas ministers, her spokesman James Rubin said.' masks and diplomats there preparing to leave. 

Algerian highway ambusl1 kills 19 
AssociATED PRESS The other militants' Armed Islamic Group near the<· recently extended its attacks ALGIERS, Algeria Kabylie·. and west of Algiers~ 
An armed group attacked and the region· is populated. by killed 19 p~ople riding in a traQsport whoare generally truck on a desolate mountain road in the insurgency. About eastern Algeria, newspapers reported s in the regi~n have Sunday. nment~supported 
It was the second highway ambush ,. ......... .,, some of them attacked by reported in recent days. Both took place on Friday. . . u.uu.~<•m'"'"" occurred the same 
No one claimed responsibility for prime minister, Ahmed the attack that occurred near Gijel. a ed in an interview town with a civilian militia 180 miles media that the govern· east of Algiers. But suspicion feU on to crushing the)nsur~ Muslim ll1ilitants fighting a 6~yeap-old insurgency against the military· backed government. 
Gunmen set off an explosive in the road and then fired on the truck. the indep(')nd:ent dailies El Watan and Uberte reported Sunday. 

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 23, l998 _ 
~------------------~~~~~~~~==~-----------­
'., .. _:::.: :~ 
.. 
-~: ::i::: 

Presider: Rev~,.~g~a A. Malloy, c.s.c. 
·:·> .:··:·.:·:·;:-:-:-:::_:_:·:::::/· 
·:::}~}::; .. ·. 
Hoin'i 
ist: Rev. James K. Foster, c.s.c. 
Music: The Notre Dame Folk Choir 

Monday, February 23, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 
NAACP chairman outlines goals 
Associa<ed Press 
NEW YORK 
Julian Bond. a civil rights fig­ure from the 1960s and the NAACP's new chairman, says he wants the organization's voice to be heard "wherever race is dis­cussed" as it continues a come­back from financial and organi­zational chaos. 
Bond. 58, who won election late Saturday over five lesser known candidates, also said he wanted to broaden the message of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
"Colored people come in all colors. We want to reach out to emerging Americans, Hispanics, Latinos, Native Americans, Asians and white Americans," he said. 
The one-time Georgia state legislator, who marched with Martin Luther King Jr. in the 1960s and now teaches history at American University and the University of Virginia, was draft­ed to run for the NAACP's top post after Myrlie Evers-Williams chose not to seek a fourth one­year term. 
NAACP board members gave Bond 29 votes for the unpaid position, while his five rivals received a total of 24. 
The losing candidates indicat­ed their full support for Bond, NAACP spokesman Daniel Willson said Sunday. 
"All candidates ran a very civil campaign," said Maryland radio host Joe Madison, one of the unsuccessful contenders. "It was only about the issues." 
"1 want make sure the NAACP voice is heard wherever race is discussed," Bond told a news conference after the voting. 
"There are some indices of black life in America that are abysmal. But as a general propo­sition, things are better now than they've ever been." 
"Having said that, they're nowhere near where they ought to be or as good as they're going to be," he said. "The NAACP has the responsibility of addressing these disparities." 
Standing with Evers-Williams and NAACP President Kweisi Mfume, Bond also said the orga­nization was "on the way to fis­cal health and recovery" from three years of internal disarray and financial crisis. 
The organization has just under half a million members. A force in major civil rights battles for most of its 80-year history, the NAACP in 1994 found itself $4.8 million in debt after a sexu­al harassment scandal involving Executive Director Benjamin Chavis Jr., who was fired. 


Now Featuring 
roolballl 
Li)Cated aeross from the 
Computer La"b in the 
LaFortune Basement 
And Be Sure To Cheek Out 
The New Arcade 
Loeated Aeross J;-;.om Irish Gardens in 
The LaFortune Basement 
COUPON 
$a.oo OFF 
Go,..,J. Gameo Room T-SJ.irt and/or One Ji'ree Hour of Pool 
Exp;... M ...~ 1>. 1008 


VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, February 23, 1998 
The M-Word Revisited ••• Again 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRF. DAME OfFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAidS 0HICE: J()<) Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jamie Heisler Tom Roland 
Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski Sporu Editor ................................. Mike Day Advertising Manager .............................. Jcd Peters News Editor ........................... Heather Cocks Ad Design Manager ..................... jcnnifcr Breslow Viewpoint Editor.. . ............... Kelly Brooks Production Manag~r ......................... Mark DeBoy A«.:ccm Editor... .. ............. Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................ Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhc independem newspaper published by rhc s[Udcnts of the Universiry of Notre Dame du L.o~c o1nd Saint Mary's College. h docs not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration of either 
instirution. The news is reported :b accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majoriry of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edicor, News 
Ediror. Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accem Editor, Saint Mary's Ediror, Photo Ediwr, and Associate 
News Ediror. Commentaries, leners and Inside Columns present the views ofche authors, and noc neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norrc Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all reade-rs. The frec-expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Otllcc  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Adverrising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  6.~1-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EdirorNicwpoinr  631-5303  Viewpoinr E-Mail  Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu  
t;cncrallnformation  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obsc:rvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• DIGGING DEEPER 
Dave Freddoso seems to have created a bit of a stir with his recent inside col­umn. Right away, I must congratulate him on sparing us the usual Valentine's Day sap. Mr. Freddoso begins his lively discussion of the m-word by reminding all of us that love is not about warm fuzzy feelings or sappy cards with hearts on them. If nothing else, I am grateful for not having to read any more (St.?)Valentine's Day shlock. But like Freddoso, I detest cynicism, so I too will refrain from any mon1 complaints about sappiness. 
Aaron Kheriaty 
Dave wrotn about what he believes everyone hnre should be concerned with: marriage. I wish to lay my own cards on thn table and assure you that I believe his column was a serious and intelligent admonition to the men of Notre Dame. Marian .larlenski, in a letter to the editor last week, pointnd out to Freddoso that the real "m-word" is not 'marriage,' but 'men.' She suggests that since Freddoso can only appnal to the gentlemen of Notre Dame, pnrhaps he should rllfrain from writing for The Observer. which slw astutnly pointml out, also has female readers. But when discussing male and fmnaln relationships, it snems entirely rnasonabln that a man would approach thn subject from his own perspective, and not attPmpt to project his views onto the oppositn sex, lest hn be accused of spnaking for a point of view or which he has no nxperinnce. So I will do the same. If this ofTends my fmnale readers, I apologize profusely. 
But back to the subject of marriage. Freddoso was right in saying that Notre Dame is not a bad place to find a future spouse. One cannot deny that college is a good opportunity for finding the person you will spend the rest of your life with. Ilis advice is not to search in desperation for the first pair of brown polyester pants that comes along, but simply to take advantage of the possibility which college life afTords for finding and getting to know one's future wife. But as Freddoso's father quipped, Dave has a way of alienating even those who agree with him. Kind of funny, but unfortu­nate, considering the line substance of his column. Dave is not known for his political correctness, but please, Ms. Jarlenski, don't try to tell me you've never referred to one or the men at Notre Dame as a 'guy.' If so, you have no reason to object to being called a (gasp) 'girl.' 
I wish to defend Freddoso's admonition to his fellow 'men' here at Notre Dame to (putting it mildly) get ofT their dull', clean up their act, and "make themselves marriageable." Or, to please the \ sensitive reader, to make themselves lovable. Aisling Kenne, in another let­ter to the editor, accused Freddoso "in his frantic race to grow up" of "running from the bosom of his mother to that of a wife." I assure you, this is not the case; Freddoso is not looking for a wife. All he is asking is for the men about campus to take down their nudie posters, put away their nintendo, and stop wasting their time. He is not asking anyone to skip over any eruci;LI stage of maturation ­unless you consider being a sloppy, soft­porn watching, spoiled college student to be a necessary stage on the way to man­hood. lie is encouraging us men to Jearn how to give of ourselves, which is what marriage is really all about. Ms. Kenne pointed out that she is eontent with win­dow shopping, keeping her eyes open for the right lit, and discarding old 
W~Rt ROOY FoR TilE·~uND 'rnb. WORLD CIW.,L~~ ....WHE.RE 
OOWE.SToW 
/ OUR STUFI=?.. 
boyfriends along the way like a used pair of clothing. She does not want to settle for Jess than the best, and I think on this point, Freddoso would agree. He just points out that the more virtuous we become during our time here, the better fit we will be for Ms. Right, when we finally find her. 
What seems most absurd to me is that Freddoso has been accused of neglecting the most important component in mar­riage -love. Perhaps Ms. Jarlenski, the proponent of this accusation, was not reading between the lines. Granted, Dave never used this precious word in the article. But I suspect that it was more out of reverence for its true moan­ing than out of neglect of its importance. Our age has abused this word "love,'' the most divine of the virtues. We refer to fornication as "making love." We think somehow that love has something to do with our emotions, with our own plea­sure. Butt~ is is not love. Love is the cross. "Greater love has no man than this, that he lay down his life for his friends." E\ eryone wants a love which they would die lor. What many fail to realize is that martyrdom does indeed occur whennver one really loves. It occurs in th1l ordinary, unseen, hum­drum sacrifices of each day. This is the 
Jove which Freddoso draws our atten­
tion to w 1on he described the sacri­fice inhr.rent in any lasting mar­riage: the late nights that your 
parents spent with you when you wern a baby, the diapnrs they 
changed, the adolescent attitude they put up with. This is love at its finest -unglamorous, 
unnoticed, yet in its simple and odinary way, heroic:. 
.ove is deeds, not sweet words. Yet wn cannot learn to Jm·o this way unless we begin ncrN by practicing it in the little 
things. Freddoso suggc1sts a goo 1 first step: "Take down your posters, ship your television home, and grow up." It is only by beginr ing now to grow in virtue now thc.t we will be lovable, and capable ( r loving, when we lind that 
special someone. Ms. Kenne rightly notes that "narriage is a sacred gift from God and of yoursc~ll· to another for­ever." Freddoso was eneouraging his fellow men t ·> prepare for this great gift­of-self. Yes, his advice may be dillkult for some of us to take. But Mother Teresa said 1hat in ordnr to really love, you must "give until it hurts." 
Now, who .viii argtw with that? 
!laron Khe"iaty is ajunior !lrts and Letters majo:. /lis column appears emery other Sunda•t. 
The opinio:1s expressed in this column are those of1he author, not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• DOONESBURY 
REM&M/3t3RU£."' ..Jl:I?/3MYCAVlW!?I7h L.AC£YS 
t/V~-IN CAR&61V!3R f." 7Ht3F£1-t()U/tf/110 '­
6A~Ya!NOT 
ON~8<JT7WO a:JV~8ARS/ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I.AiffU,ANYIAJA't I'V& 5/GrVa? 
UPFOR ANAtZHeiM£1<~ StJPPDRTGROUP; ANI? I Neb/? 
SVM~ 70l<'t!:ePAN~Y& ON MR9. I?/ 5/NC/3 S/-1& S/3E.M!3 70 /.JJ<l; ~I THOUGHT 
MAYEJ& YOU'I?G!~ITA GO/ 
• QuOTE Of THE DAY 
"Bigamy is having one wife too many. Monogamy is the same thing" 
-Anonymous 
----------~~ 
VIEWPOINT
Monday, February 23, 1998 page 9 
• JEDI MIND TRICKS • lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Search for one of Bombing Iraq: Is it the 'Them' Best Solution? 
If you are one of "them" you are prob­ably not reading this. 
I knew this column was going to be written. I just didn't know when I was going to submit it. A lot has been writ­ten in The Observer on the dill'erent males and females at Notre Dame-re: academically superior but socially inept. This column has nothing to do with that discussion. 
Kevin Patrick 
This column is about that girl who you met under the most unassuming of cir­cumstances. The one you never intend­ed to meet. The one whose naivete was laughable. Whose gullibleness placed them in constant peril of ridicule but only made them more endearing. The one who completely unbeknownst to you held your heart well before you ever knew it. Your friends knew you were done, because tragically and magically she was one of "them." 
To be one of "them" there is no crite­ria. You never know who one of "them" are when you meet "them." They just talk to you and without either of you knowing it. you can not imagine your life without "them" in it. You don't love them because of superficial beauty, although their beauty is obvious and deep. Most of "them" do not possess the superficial beauty that blows you away instantly. It is only after multiple unas­suming encounters that their beauty draws you in stronger than any Siren's song from Greek mythology. It is then, and only then, that this may be the most beautiful person you have ever met. 
It is a subtle process, not one that a road-map could ever chart. You may meet "them" at a Bookstore Basketball game or walking home from the dining hall. Maybe you met "them" at fresh­man orientation or at RA orientation. They arc everywhere and part of your everyday routine if you live like we all know we should. FYI: you certainly did not meet one of "them" at The Backer. Their only reason to be found there is to woo us back from the dark side. 
Most of "them" arc chaste although the virginal aspect to "them" is an oft misunderstood criteria. Absent this quality by no means disqualifies your place among "them." If you wanted to 11esh out the idea behind this aspect -a discussion I would strenuously object to -it would boil down to a question as to why they partook in the sexual act. We all make decisions in our lives. Some good. but many bad. 
Indiscn~tions with someone you truly bnlioved you were in love with are not as damning as one-night stands or gen­eral promiscuity. The bottom line is: You can't unring the bell. 
The idna is that one of "them" is out there for those who are looking and desnrvn to be blessed with one of "them" in our life. I bnlieve our deci­sions if made properly are leading us to mont that one person God intends for us. If the force is strong with you, your decisions should be leading you to one of "them." If you don't know who they are at this moment, you want to be making decisions that bring you closer to "thmn"-not farther away. 
Our frustrations with "them" come from tlwir personalities. While person­alities may vary, theirs arc strikingly consistent. If you are one of "them," you hate the Simpsons. I love the Simpsons. My favorite movie this past year was "Chasing Amy." If you are one of "them" you most likely have not now nor ever will see that movie. If you had seen it you would have been repulsed and most likely not have appreciated or understood any of the humor. 
If you are one of "them," you never fail on the levels the rest of us mortals seem to fail on an almost clockwork-like basis. Our sins are long. and distin­guished. If you are one of "them," your sins are generally limited to not praying enough. 
When they break up with you, they expect it to strengthen your friendship -you expect your world to end. If you break up with "them," their world does end-but that is another story alto­gether. Being with one of "them" is wonderful if it is on their terms. However, they have trouble meeting you on your terms. But why should they, your terms are vices to be avoided, their terms consist of walking with Christ. 
Naivete is a trademark of "them." They know that everyone is not like "them" but believe in the human spirit and in the potential that lies in every­one. They never question motives that are obviously subversive to the general public. From even the most disingenu­ous, they only see the good. Even today they can be found in Hesburgh Library researching the definition of gullible. 
Among their wondrous idiosyncrasies, maybe their most marvelous and defin­ing is spirituality. The ones I have met are Catholic -but that is not a restric­tive criteria. They have a grand plan and want you to see this grand plan as well. Their relationship with God is one of their most cherished accomplish­ments and possessions. They live under the idea of selflessness. What's theirs is yours, and what you want they want. And they definitely want to share their relationship with God with you. They also want you to share yours with them. That puts a lot of pressure on you. Measuring up is a futile enterprise. The beauty is they never ask you to. They just want you to join them on their jour­ney. 
Before I came to Notre Dame I wasn't sure I would ever meet one of "them." I thought their existence was some false ideal. It turns out Notre Dame is the Rebel Base for "them." While many have left, I can only speculate that even more remain. 
Most likely I will never marry one of "them." What they are looking for I usually do not possess. I frequent the Backer, I live for the Simpsons, I don't pray enough, I hold grudges, Rage Against the Machine is cathartic; basi­cally my vices far outnumber my virtues. Their strength flows from the Force and me and my silly Snub-lighter morality are no match for for that kind of power. 
It seems most of "them" in their siren calls are cheating anyway. Legend has it that a few years back a group of "them" stole the technical readout to us praying and that when the data was analyzed a weakness could be found. 
From this they put together an outline and distributed its step-by-step wooing process at their secret hideout within the Rebel Base to turn us back from the dark side. They know there is good in us and they are going try and turn us back. 
But it is probably too late for me. The intensity and fervor with which thev apply their Jedi Mind Tricks gener~lly gets on your nerves. But when you see what they stand for, the hope they have for you, and the limitless possibilities when you are with "them" ... it's a tough thing to walk away from. 
Walking away from "them" may not be a wrong decision depending on who you arc and what you want-but the absence of strife is a lot to give up. 
Kevin Patrick is a third-year JDIMBA student. He can be e-mailed at kevin. d.patrick.16@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Do you litter anywhere you like just because you know somebody is appointed to clean it up anyway? Or you are just trying to create more jobs? 
Do you take advantage of another person just because you can, and can get away with it? Or you are just adher­ing to the inevitable law of survival of the fittest? 
Do you bomb another country just because it is economically viable or to increase your self-image? Or is it because the other guy started it? 
It saddens me that in most television commentaries that I have watched recently, people, especially those politi­cal analysts, are only concerned with the practicality of bombing Iraq and not the moral justification of it. People seems to accept bombing Iraq and get­ting rid of Saddam Hussein (and per­haps installing a democratic govern­ment) as a justified action and never question whether we should do it in the first. place. Even if you can, the end doesn't justify the mean. As I see it, people are more concerned with who is going to pay the bill; is it going to help us achieve our goals; what are we pre­pared to do next? 
Perhaps I should not be surprised. People here appear to take their President's infidelity in great stride. The greatest tragedy of this nation is not because her president has loose pants, but because her people don't care. Some people argue that we should not judge the president with a higher standard than we are willing to hold ourselves to. But in case I am mistaken, you only have to elect One president from this nation which is 200 million strong. And what happens to lead by example? I doubt that it is impossible to lind another person in this country who is less salacious and no less capable. The moment we condone immoral act, is the moment moral starts to decay. Maybe this is just another sign of changing times. 
I didn't attend the Teach-in, but it doesn't take an expert to help me real­ize that this is a fiasco created, ampli­fied and blinded by testosterone (no offense to Madame Albright). America has a bone to pick with Saddam Hussein, not Iraq, let's not blur the line. Iraq has not committed any aggression, and there is no moral justification to add salt to the woundthat America's led economic sanction has inflicted on to the helpless Iraqi people, period. People should not even think of whether bomb­ing is feasible. If America does go against the will of the rest of the world, she will be the one that is committing aggression. And shame on you for pick­ing on someone just a fraction of your size (in every respect). 
. 
.............. ··• .... .. to take fl1e wne t9' ~~~~r up ahy eonfu8ioh 
y's:tel.\ ··.the edit?t; ln.itshe states·"Acoil.dom· ization, ............... ·.·. . . ts in the destruction of an already fer• ...... . a common misconception. hysiological effects ofthe oral contraceptive is an alteration of the 

I am not defending Saddam Hussein, but he is no Hitler either. He is more like a crippled tiger with his tail between his legs. America should have more class than to stoop to his level and play his game. Will an apple fall upwards if you curse it or dare it? Evan if he is harboring deadly weapons, do you seriously think that the rest of the world will give him the chance of creat­ing another mess like Hitler did? Since President Hussein is constantly under a spot-light and microscope, the world will not hesitate to retaliate even if he so much as farts (pardon the language). 
What puzzles me is that the nations that are most directly threaten by Saddam Hussein actually oppose the bombing oflraq. They are not support­ing it, not even ambivalent about it. Yet, America is persistently poking her nose into other people's affair. There is a Chinese saying that aptly describes this situation, albeit slightly vulgar: the king doesn't care, the eunuch cares. 
America has always proclaimed her­self as the greatest arbiter of peace and champion of freedom. Yet, she cannot accept other people adopting another way of life and bent on converting everybody else to her own camp. America, by and large is still a Christian country, have you ever heard of God insisting on us following Him? Or else He'll bomb us? Or maybe He is only using different tactics? Furthermore, Saddam Hussein is not the only one who has committed great unjust to his and other people. Many other countries have done that too, I don't need to name them here. But instead of isolating them and threaten­ing them with bombings, America "engages" them in dialogues with unsurpassed tolerance or simply turns a blind eye. Why not accord the same curtesy to Iraq? Is it because it is not economically feasible? Oh, it is cheaper to bomb than to sit down and talk! What a great 20th century logic! I guess in the future, if you look up a dictio­nary, you will find this example under double standard, hypocrisy and insani­ty. 
In actual fact, the chance of America firing the next missile is much greater than coming form the rest of the world. It is America that should practice self­restrain lest she become a worldwide trigger happy abominable bully. 
Finally, I would like to express my apology to anyone that has been offend­ed by my article and/or the language therein. Thank you. 
Seng Kai Wong Physics Graduare Student February 22, 1998 
. 
Monday, February 23, 1998 
Sphere gets the ball rolling 
By JOE LENISKI 
Accenr Movie Critic 
H
ow many times has a movie 
seriously disappointed you? I 
am not talking about the light post-viewing melancholy that per­vades your opinion after a very lack­luster film, I am talking about real pain here, people. 
action-extravaganza packed to the brim with computer-enhanced mas­tery. But halfway through, the insult­ingly-stupid dialogue made my ears bleed from the inside, and I was forced to stagger outside into reality. And yes, I paid real money to watch "Batman and Hobin," clinging to the one desperate hope that somehow, someway, the previews were mislead-
photo courtesy Warner Bros. 
Sharon Stone stars as a bio-chemist who seeks to unravel the mysteries contained 
in an alien underwater pod. 
As you chew on that, allow me to rant on about movies from this past year that I have lived. breathed, eaten and drank since I first heard rumor of their inception and then have utterly crushed me when I saw them dis­played for the first time on the big screen. I expected "The Lost World," the sequel to Jurassic Park to be big­ger, faster, and more intense than the first, but what I got was longer, slow­er. and a film-cheese factor off the charts as T-Hex stomps down the San Diego streets after seared pedestrians. I told all my friends to be the first in line to watch "Starship Troopers," an 
ing and I would witness a quality flick. Instead I sat alone in a theater full of 
little tirade was to provide a bit of insight into the expectations which I carried into the viewing of "Sphere." Judging from past experience, I felt sure that the combination of big stars, bigger money, and book-to-film adap­tation formula would result in another massacre of good celluloid. But hey, like a desperate guy on SYR night flip­ping frantically through the "dog­book," I would give anything a shot once. Much to my surprise, this movie actually managed to be both highly­entertaining and intelligent while holding my interest for most of the two-hour running time. That is more than I can say about my first dogbook date. 
Following the latest Hollywood "dash-for-cash" from previously writ­ten material, the producers of "Sphere" went right to the master of sagacious-storytelling. M ic h aeI Crichton, and plucked from his vaults the basic storyline of this film. One­thousand feet below the ocean, the American military discovers a gigantic spaceship that has been lodged fa<:e­down in the coral reef for over 300 years. Enter Norman Goodman (Dustin Hoffman), a psychologist who wrote the government textbook for alien-encounters, only he has to explain to his expedition team mem­bers, a bio-chemist (Sharon Stone), a mathematician (Samuel L. Jackson), and a physicist (Liev Schreiber), that he actually has no idea how to handle 
the situation. But before they even 
overactive pre-schoolers who have a chance to say "close could have vomited in their encounter," they are workbooks, took pictures underwater breaching as they flipped the pages, the hull of the ancient 
Sphere
taped them to the wall and still produced a more entertaining show than the multi­million dollar masochistic travesty that played mockingly before me. 
Whew, that was thera­
sci-li, suspense. and peutic. The purpose of that psychological-thriller 
spacecraft. To sum­Directed by Barry Levinson marize any further would be to dis-Starring Dustin Hoffman, • credit the small surprises that the
Samuel L. Jackson, 
film has to offer, Liev Schreiber, but what develops is a radical blend of
and Sharon Stone 
that keeps the viewer turning the pag...er... fixed on the screen for the duration. 
Aside from having a quality story to draw from, "Sphere" benefits from the skills of a seasoned director and a sharply-casted crew. Dirnetor Barry Levinson. who also <:oupled with Hoffman in "Hain Man" and "Wag tlw Dog," uses varied eamera-work to erP­ate an environment both fasdnating and horril'ieally elaustrophobic. The entire cast (yes, even Sharon Stone) get this piece "rolling." lloffman con­vineingly plays the part of. what else, a dilatory neurotic, Liev Schreiber grows up from his "Scream 2" role, and Sharon Stone prow~s her ability to act without exposing her breasts. But as is his nagging custom, Samuel Jackson outshines them all. llis per­formanee was so reminiscent of his suave demeanor in "Pulp Fiction" that during his meal in the kitchen scene the melvins seated around me kept yelling for him to spout, "Mmm ... this is a tasty burger!" lie too is able to deliver an excellent performance and overcom<~ his stereotyped casting by not uttering a single slur the entire movie. 
These elements, coupled with impressive set design and incredibl<~ underwater shooting, and despitn thn fact that a few liberties wore taken in the film adaptation. mako "Sphere" an experience that satisfi<~s the hard-com science-fiction freak, the Crichton loy­alist, and those who just like movies which force your date to clutch your body repeatedly and gratuitously throughout. My expected disappoint­ment was averted bncause this film distinguishes itself from the "flash­and-cash" pre-madonnas of the eine­matic universe. That means no more shock-therapy for anothnr f!lW weeks, or at least until it comes time to pick another blind SYH date. 

(out of five) 
Stick to dinosaurs, Mike 
By JOE STARK 
Accent Movie Critic 
W
hen I went to see "Sphere," I was excited. 
"Oh goodie, sci-fi with Sharon Stone, 
Dustman lloffman, and Samuel L. Jackson." Then I got into the theatre and was excit­ed even morn to sec the name Queen Latifah flashed onto the screen -this should add some humor, I thought. My excitement was quickly drawn out of me though by 132 minutes of nebulous plot and choppy characters. I feel as if I not only wasted my six dollars and twenty-five cents. but also a chunk of my life. 
Hcally, the only saving grace to this movie was that Mir.hael Crichton's reputation ean always get a stellar east of actors and actresses. At least it was pretty to look at. Dustman lloffman delivers his usual portrayal of a fumbling character, and even though by the end of the movie his repetitive speech and dum1.cteristic quizzieal looks start to grate the nerves, his general pt~rformance was positive in that he seems to be the voice of reason. 
Sharon Stone's portrayal of a mentally unstable marine biologist really threw me for a Ioop. She seemed to warne from being calm and collected popping jellyfish tentacles out of Queen Latifah's nose, to being completely wacko popping queludes. I never really knew if I should feel sorry her of if I should want her to be killed next. On a positive note, for the first time ever, Stone was never once shown in a tight shirt or tight skirt -even with enough video equipment to rival "Sliver." 
As usual, Samuel L. Jackson has an amusing and intelligent role, where his humor and distinctive language can shine though even the lamest of scenes. But unfortunately even Samuel L. had his moments when the movie's script made him look bad. Another disturbing aspect was the fact that the secondary characters were killed off first without us even remembering their names. In my opinion, if I only remember the naval officer having gapped teeth, her death really isn't going to affect me that much. The cast did what they could with the plot, but it seemed that characters would shift from, "Hey, I'm sane. I'm good," to "lla, I'm evil. I want to sick squids on you." A cast does not make a movie good, a movie makes a east good. Actors can only do so much with pathetic themes like Samuel L. Jackson (a tall, athletic, imposing man) squealing in fear of a small piece of fried ealimari -give me a break. During the entire film I wondered what the movie would have been like without the looks of Sharon, the wit of Samuel, and the babblings of Dustman -I'd rather go to the dentist. With their performances, however, the pain was reduced to discomfort, caused mostly by the plot itself. 
Is it just me or have I seen this movie before? Perhaps my opinion would be different if I could say the book was completely different, but did Michael Crichton ever see the Russian film Solaris? Or maybe the director Barry Levison used much of Event Horizon's camera angles to make it fit the "alien thing on a ship causing evil" genre. The underwater script seemed to be like an incomplete wedding -something old, something borrowed, something blue, nothing new. The general plot itself was full of holes, the actors were never really stable in respect to the plot, and at best the flow of the movie was slow. When I watch a sci-fi movie, I assume that the director, producer, dolly grip, or at least someone would watch the movie and check for flaws. 
The entire plot was based on a complex theory of human emotion, dreams and reality. Sure, the little bit of physics they touched on was okay, but what about the Sphere? Could we clarify? Supposedly the Sphere allows those who have entered it a power to make their fantasy, reality. Yet sometimes this reali­ty only affects those who haven't entered the Sphere, sometimes the reality is only affecting those who have, and sometimes the reality isn't even real­ity. Make up your mind. 
As for the script's character roles, they're del'i­nitely wishy-washy . For example, not only does Stone go from scientist to druggie, but Jackson goes from suave mathmetieian, to a giddy enlightened one, to a psycho computer demon, to a heroic sav­ior, to a weakly crybaby, and suddenly back to the 

photo courtesy Warner Bros. A team of scientists explore~ its underwater habitat in "Sphere." 
suave mathematician. I had no chance to form an opinion let alone understand what was going on. As for the movie's flow, it was much too sporadic. Suspense !ilms are suppm;ed to at least lead me to the end or my seat. It tri·~d to just yank me there and it just didn't get the jo J done. I felt violated. 
I guess a movie buff might be intrigued by the movie's highly budgeted ~pecial effects, but really, actors in a dark swim tai,k being bombarded with fake squid eggs -wow. I'm pretty sure that can wait for the video. It may have had big stars, good special effects, and a big name author, but last time I cheeked, the real issue was the dialogue and plot. Good luek next time War 1er Brothers. I gave this movie two shamrocks because I think that it would make a good renter. But to waste real money on this movie instead of splitting 1he rental with 10 friends is ridiculous. 
:flj~~ 
(out off ve) 

By JOE KRAUS 
Accent Movie Critic 
I 
I' you want to laugh until it hurts, you can always count on the Zuchr Brothers, makers of "The Naked Gun" tril­
ogy and "Kentucky Fried Movie." David Zucker's latest attempt in the slapstick genre is "High School High," and oncn again. tlw Zucker brothers do not disappoint. Directed by Hart Bochner and starring John Lovitz, Tia Carrere, and Mekhi Phifer. "High School High" will leave you rolling on the Jloor. 
This film tells the story of Richard Clark, a spoiled son of a private schoolmastr.r who ventures out into Public School 
U.S.A. to take a job as teacher. The kids that Clark encoun­ters at Marion Barry High show him no mercy as he tries to be both teacher and friend. Carrere plays administrative assistant. Victoria Chappell, who falls in love with Clark for his determination and interest he takes in the kids. By the end of tlw movie, Clark actually has the kids believing they can pass thr. Academic Proficiency Test, which no one from Barry High has ever done before. Clark's progress is retard­ed by Principle Doylr. and gangbanger, Paco, who are involved in a drug scheme together. 
This may sound like some pretty serious subject matter and nerily similar to tho dozens of other movies of this kind likn "Stand and Deliver" and "Dangerous Minds." However, Zucker and company make sure that no one would ever con­fuse this movie with another film that actually has a point. Lovitz is awesomr.. He plays the naive nerd to a T. It is also hilarious to hear him try to speak jive. He would have made "Airplane's" Barbara Billingsly proud! Carrere plays a per­fectly empty-headed sidekick whose attraction to Clark is one of thn funniest things I have ever seen. Make sure to pay special attention to the love scene in this movie. The rest of the cast plays off of all of the stereotypes of today's urban youth. There arc references to every rapper from Ice T to Snoop. If you have any familiarity with urban culture at all, you will love to laugh with this movie. 
Do not sit down to watch this movie expecting to see great cinematography. That is just not going to happen. However, if you want something completely mindless to blow off an hour and a half. "High School High" will definitely do the trick. As long as David Zucker continues to crank out these movies. brainless humor will never die, and I will be a happy man! 

I. The Game 
2. 
Contact 

3. 
Conspiracy Theory 

4. 
Event Horizon 

5. 
G.l. Jane 

6. 
Face/Off 

7. 
Nothing to Lose 

8. 
Con Air 

9. 
Soul Food I0. My Best Friend's Wedding 


Source: Billboard Online 

page 11 
. ~ 
-

I. Titanic 
2. 
The Wedding Singer 

3. 
Sphere 

4. 
Good Will Hunting 

5. 
Senseless 

6. 
As Good As It Gets 

7. 
The Borrowers 

8. 
Palmetto 

9. 
The Apostle I0. L.A. Confidential 


Source: AP 
~---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·---· 
Monday, February 23, 1998 
page 12 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Sales closes deal on 
By BILL HART taining freshman Ruth Riley, prev~nting The Huskies hit 26-of-32 shots from the 
Sports Writer her from becoming a factor in the ga~e ..·.· ... .fotil. wi~ 7...· . . .IntM game, the possi· charity stripe, while the Irish only went 
To their credit, however •. th~ Irish w~re ...bllityto~~ys~efl1ed unlikely,· 15-of-20. The home team was also able 
It was Senior Day on Saturday at able to keep the score· close for most of HowC.ye.r}'just as th.e Huskies·were to make its rebounds count, tallying 13 
Hampel Pavilion -a day where the game. After falling · begi:nni)1g to pull away, second-chance points for the game com­
Connecticut fans honored their players behind by as many as senlor guard Nykesha pared to four for the visitors. 
who would be performing in the final eight points early on, Sales injured her right Notre Dame was led by Ivey, who had a 
home game of their careers. senior Mollie Peirick hit ... .heel.· After being helped team-high 20 points and seven rebounds
'~THOUGHT W£. Pl..AYFD· 
Against such high emotions, the two free throws to tie off the court, she was in 34 minutes of play. Two other Irish 
Fighting Irish women's basketball team the game at the 4:30 PRETI'Y HARD~ WE unable to return for the players, Peirick and junior Sheila 
would attempt to achieve an almost mark of the first half. PlAYED WOll A LOT OF rest of the game: Her McMillen, had 10 and 12 points respec­
unreachable goal: Defeat the Huskies on On the heels of a three-, status for.the rest of the tively. As she did earlier in the season, 
their home court. While the 73-61 score pointer by sophomore INTENSITY AND WEREN T year will not be known Riley was unable to get into her rhythm, 
may seem to be a decisive victory for the Niele lvey, the Irish led INTIMIDAtED. THEY HAD until tests are taken gathering only four points in 15 minutes 
homo team. the Irish (~arne close to mak· by as many as five 10,000 FANS IN 1HEIRARENA today. . ofplaying time before fouling out. 
ing this home game a disappointing one points. However, UConn Despite the loss of The Huskies had four players in double 
for UConn fans. went on a 11-1 run in AND THAT'S JUSTA GREAT their leading scorer and figures for the game, lHd by Sales, who 
"I thought we played pretty hard." the remaining minutes ATMOSPHERE FOR 'IHEHOME senior captain, UConn scored 27 points and went a perfect 10­
head coach Muffet McGraw said. "We to head in the locker was still able to over· for-10 from the charity stripe before her 
played with a lot of intensity, and we room with a 36·32 lead. TEAM ro PlAY BASKETBAlL come the Irish defense injury. She was aided by Sauer and Rita 
weren't intimidated. They had 10,000 "I think we handled IN.' and shut the opponent's Williams, who tallied 15 and 13 points. 
fans in their arena, and that's just a the pressure very well," offense down. Freshman Svetlana Abrosimova had the 
great atmosphere for the home team to McGraw said. "We had "We each had the game's only double-double, finishing 
play basketball in." the lead late in the half .AfuFFBTMcGRAW same number of field with 11 points and a game-high 15 
DHspite many UConn turnovers caused but they got foilr free WOMEN'S 1JASKETBALL COACH goals;:' McGraw said. rebounds. With the victory, UConn 
by the Notre Dame pressure defense in throws and later took . ... ... "but our problem was moves to 27-2 on the season and 16-1 in 
the paint, perimeter defense proved to be the lead. I think that was our only prob-fouling. They wAnt to the free throw line the Big East. 
a soft spot for the Irish. For the game, lem." a lot more than theyneeded to." With the loss, the Irish fall to 17-8 on 
tho Huskies connected on 7-of-15 shots In the second half. the Irish attempted As is common when both teams have the season and 11.·6 in conference play. 
from beyond the arc, including their first to rally again, tying the score again Jn sub•par offensive performances, it was The team will return to the Joyce Center 
three nttempts. On the other end of the less than five minutes. However, the free throw shooting that turned out tomorrow for its final home game of the 
court, UConn did an effective job of con-Connecticut went on a 6-0 run to regain to be the deciding factor in the game. season against Rutgers . 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Belles beat Bluffton with 83 percent shooting at line 
By MOLLY MCVOY Darcy Nikes. continued to play soundly and kept the momentum in its 83 percent from the line. Sports Writer Bluffton scored first, but that dominate, leading 29-19 with favor. Albrecht made seven of her was the only time it held the 4:30 remaining in the half. Senior Julie McGill led the eight shots from the technicals, Bluffton College was soundly lead the entire game. Senior The Belles' defense contin­Belles in the second half, play­bringing her total to 17 points. defeated by Saint Mary's 80-62 Brenda Hoban scored the first ued to force Bluffton to make ing very well both offensively Bluffton seemed to unravel at 
..... 
Saturday in one of the Belles points for the Belles, and with outside shots and got the and defensively. Saint Mary's this point and Saint Mary's led best home games of the year. 16:56 left in the first half, it rebounds when they did not go led 60-51 with five minutes left 71-56 with 2:23 remaining. 
Saint Mary's dominated was 11-5 Saint Mary's. in. At halftime, it was a 32-26 and, with both teams in foul McGill fouled out for the Belles defensively and kept control of Saint Mary's had nearly Saint Mary's lead. trouble, every call counted. with 1:37 remaining, hut not the ball the entire game. The every rebound at Bluffton's end The second half started with With 3:20 remaining, before scoring 17 points for game was fast-paced from of the court and made all the a bit of excitement: The refer­Bluffton's coach strongly dis­Saint Mary's. start to finish, and Bluffton just important shots at their end, ees called the first of four tech­agreed with one of those The Belles adjusted and con­seemed unable to keep up. shooting 59 percent from the nicals on Bluffton's head coach important calls and drew tinued to hold a big lead until 
The game was far from a field. With 12:29 left in the for a few choice words. another technical. the conclusion of the game. clean one, with 35 percent of half, it was 20-12 in favor of Saint Mary's came out play­With 2:37 remaining, more This game brings Saint Mary's the Belles' points coming at the the Belles. ing even better than in the first disagreeable calls were made record to 8-15,5-6 at home. free-throw line. Leading scor­The lead could have been half, penetrating the key much and, not only were two techni­The Belles travel to Siena ers for Saint Mary's were even bigger, but Saint Mary's better and continuing to get cals called, but Bluffton's coach Heights College on Tuesday, junior Charlotte Albrecht, had a tendency to throw the defensive rebounds. With was thrown out of the game. then play their last game of the senior Julie McGill and senior ball away in certain situations. 13:29 remaining in the game, All of these fouls did nothing season at home against Aurora 
Nevertheless, Saint Mary's Saint Mary's led 45-36 and but help Saint Mary's, who shot University Friday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas· 
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to cdir all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP -
LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! 
Mon · Thur 7:30am -Midnight 
Fri 7:30am • 7:00pm 
Sat Noon -6:00pm 
Sun Noon · Midnight 
CALL 631 -COPY 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: GRAY WOOL "OLD NAVY" 
COAT AT O'NEILL DANCE ON 
SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL MONI­
CA@ 
634·3948. 
~-~--~_N_T_E_o__~l 
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED 
please call219-271-0633 
Russian, 7 yrs exp. Rus. teacher 
for foreigners. Private & group 
lessons all levels & translations 
Yulia: 243-1079 leave message 
FOR RENT 
2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW & 
FALL.272-655 1 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 
MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232·2595 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291·7153 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 
POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
For Sale 
93 Ford Explorer-EDDIE BAUER Loaded w/ leather etc ... 65K-Dk. green w/ tan $15,500 obo. call David 234-1840 
Mac PowerBook 190cs. 8/500. $ 500. Call Leopold at 273 9275. 
~~__P_E_R_so_N__A_L~ 
Off-Broadway Musical at Notre Dame? SEALOVE, MANAGER original musical direct from NY Washington Hall Feb 26, 27, 28 @ 7:30 $7 ($4 students) Buy Tix at Lafortune 
The Filipino American Student Organization presents: 
!!FIESTANG FILIPINO IV!! A Night of Filipino Food and Dance 
Sat, Feb.28, 6pm Stepan Center $5 stud. $7 GA 
hi mom! yeah, you know who you are. thank you for being my sun­shine. (see my article). /love you! 
4:00. Knights of Columbus. Be there. 
my roommate is so cool. she drove all the way back to perkins to get my camera. what a gal. 
andrea­where in sam hill have been girl?! 
arkies rock. 
yeah, we know. 
staying up til 7:30 in the morning on the chat line is not always the most productive way to spend the evening. you guys are insane. 
riley is the place, man. 
don antonio­i'm at a loss for words ... thus the brevity of this message .. . stay tuned for scenes from the next episode, all you loyal readers of this saga. 
i'm sorry. Those responsible for these classifieds have just been sacked. 
to clover, 3 man, loser. where is my shoe?: had one hell of a weekend, and thanks for the experience -king 
p.s. t. m. tadro is not below except­ing $225 in cash 
p.p.s. 12 kids with skis in beemers, 3 mongral dogs, an empty tank of gas, and three desperate girls =1 great photo oportunity. I win 
the teacher who forgot something very important needs to pay for his crimes. thanks for bailing me out Dr. Cl! 
clover-plop comes after he jumps in the lake, not before ... 
come on three man, lets arm wres­tle 
thanks nick c. chris, I can't believe that you ran that guy off the road. ed, ketchup sandwiches are dis­gusting. cory, my wipe out was way better. you can't handle ski ejecta nick cretan, you're my hero 
Okies rock. Yeah Grapes of Wrath! 
Urn... those responsible for sacking the people responsible for these classifieds have also been sacked. We apologize for any disturbance this may have caused you. 
Don't bite your cuticles. 
Kelly Preston -Woah, the stories! Your mother. -Tim Robbins 
Watch for the throw down next door today. 
Oh, it seemed like a holy place, protected by amazing grace And we would sing right out loud, the things we could not say We thought we could change this world with words like "love" and "freedom" We were part of the lonely crowd Inside the Sad Cafe 
It I smell/ike a skunk it's because there was one outside the apart­ment tonight. Really. (A moose once bit my sister.) 
No, realli! 
Kristi-
Redhead power will one day take 
over the world. Jiggy. 
-DC 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a new born with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800·484-7011 Pin #4523 
San Antonio -Can you get me 
tickets to the final four? Oh, hi 
guys... didn't see you there. No, I 
swear, I didn't. -Los Angeles. 

Your mother. 
Yo' mama. 
YOUR mother. 
Tu madre. 
Mama mia! Oh wait .. that's not right... 
Those responsible for sacking those who sacked those who wrote these classifieds ... have just been sacked. 
The remaining classifieds will be finished ... by Ralph the Wonderful Llama. 
Llamas are larger than frogs. Llamas are often seen near oceans. They are deadly killers! If you are swimming and you see a llama, you must shout, 'Look out! There are llamas!' 
CP­
1 told you intoxication would do the 
trick. -KK 
Judes-
Hey, here's classified #2! We just 
might have a streak going here. 
Just wanted to remind you who 
your true baby is, even when I'm 
FTI. 
Hey Mr. Intense-man -It's a rough life. I know, running the show, but in all honesty you do it will. Thanks for being such an inspiration to all of us ignorant ones! Love always, Lil' B. 
AB-Hang In there, my darling! It DOES get better, just have a little bit of faith. And know that I'm always here for you if you need me. -Love, yo neyba 
Hi Bern and Beeg! I miss you! But I'm glad to see you are back in action, if you know what I mean?! 
For those of you who saw what happened outside of LaFortune last Friday around 7 p.m.-and you know who you are and I know where you live -please come forth so I don't have to make you. 
Photo Joe, I'll make you a flag any­time. -Betsy Ross 
Hey D.C. I'm sending you a classified just so you know how much these words mean. -B.B. 

Monday, February 23, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Irish leave Boilermakers out of steam 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
After Notre Dame defeated Purdue Saturday 6-1, the first words out of former Notre Dame tennis coach Tom Fallon's mouth were probably "cheer, cheer." 
The men's coach for 31 years and the winningest coach in Irish history at the time of his retirement, told of the long-standing tradition where he or Purdue coach Tim Madden sing his school's victory song to the other. 
"I've never heard [Madden] sing, so don't win today," Fallon joked with the Boilermakers before the match at the Eck Pavilion. 
The only tune Purdue was probably crooning was the blues as Notre Dame swept the doubles and lost only one singles match, increasing the Irish record to 6-2. 
The Irish have seemingly turned their doubles troubles into doubles delight. After going winless in three consecutive doubles play, they have now swept the last three. 
Ryan Sachire and Matt Horsley had no trouble overcoming Boilermakers 
G.T. Cozad and Dan Swan 8-3, control­ling the match from the start. 
"They're a great combination," coach Bob Bayliss said of the No. 3 duo. "With Horsley's savvy and Sachire's power, they go together exceptionally well." 
Doubles wins at the two and three spots were more of a fight. Danny Rothschild and Vijay Freeman went 
the distance to pull out a 9-8 victory, while Brian Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski won a heated match at the No. 1 position against Chris James and Derek Myers, 8-4. 
Although things seem to be moving right along in dou­bles, the Irish won't be satis­fied until they've reached perfection. 
"Our doubles continued to improve, Bayliss said, "but we've got a ways to go. 
The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
Fr. John Harvey, OSFS 
Fr. Harvey has spent 38 years specializing in the pastoral care of homosexual persons. He is founder and director of Courage. Courage offers a network of spiritual support groups for men and women with homosexual tendencies who desire to live chaste lives. Courage chapters now serve six Canadian and 29 U.S. dioceses, as well as others in the Phillipines, England, and Ireland. 
In addition to his1985 book,The Homosexual Person: New Thinking in Pastoral Care, Fr. Harvey has recently authored The Truth About Homosexuality: T1ze Cry ofthe Faithful {1996), which Fr. Benedict Groeschel has described as "an excellent summary of the most solid thinking available at the present time on living chastely with homosexuality." In addition to these two titles, he has published over 45 articles on homosexuality, with one forthcoming on "The Pastoral Challenge of Homosexuality on a Catholic Campus." 
Fr. Groeschel writes: "Aword of respectful gratitude must be said about Father John Harvey, who has effectively and modestly worked with homosexuals seeking a chaste lifestyle for almost half a century. He has had more than his share of opposition, rejection, and misunderstanding on all sides. Being a real disciple of Christ, he never quit. He has never even thought of quitting. He was and remains way ahead of his time." 
Fr. Harvey will address both the challenge and the hope of being a Christian with homosexual tendencies. 

Tuesday, February 24 Hesburgh Library Lounge • 8:00 p.m. 
They let a lot of opportunities go by." 
The highlight in singles shone on minuteman Matt Horsley. The sopho­more was pulled from the stands and switched from spectator to starter in seconds when No. 6 Andy Warford fell ill right before the singles began. 
But pressure and jitters must not fit into Horsley's vocabulary. Horsley exe­cuted a 6-2, 6-4 victory in his first sin­gles match of the year against Purude's Dan Swan. 
"It was great to be back [in singles]." Horsley said who started in the fall before a wrist injury. "Whenever Andy's hurt or not able to play, I want to b.? able to step in to help the team out. 
But the competent and composed end of the line-up has left the Irish with a positive dilemma. 
"Several guys at the bottom of the line-up are playing at a high level," the 11-year Irish coach said. "It leaves us with a great problem, but that makes us a better team." 
Although the beginning of the match was set to the lighthearted greeting of Fallon, confrontation and tension seemed to set the tone in the rest of the singles. Several calls were con­tended, mostly by Purdue, and players were anything but anti-confrontation­al. 
Sachire, however, just seemed to thrive on the tension. At the No. 1 posi­tion, after another court's player told him to "watch his own match" and he exchanged words at the net with his opponent, Sachire defeated James Gordon 6-4, 6-3. 
"Everyone seemed a little high­strung," Sachire said. "Purdue really wanted to win this bad. I think they were frustrated and just venting their emotions." 
Although Sachire mostly vented 
through his performance, the sopho­more couldn't help but vocalize his feelings after an astounding hustle to lob the ball out of Gordon's reach. 
"In the second set, I had more confi­dence," he commented. "I'm not known for my speed, but I was excited about [that play]." 
The excitement continued at the three through five spots. 
Team captain Rothschild strained to come up with a 6-4, 6-4 defeat of James Marshall to remain undefeated on the season at the No. 4 position. Eric Enloe likewise gave what Bayliss called "his usual 100 percent effort" to finally down Tushaan Gautam, S-7, 6­4, 6-3. Patterson kept his cool in sin­gles to come back against South Bend native Derek Myers for a 6-7, 6-0, 6-2 win at No.3. 
The only sore spot showed up on the No. 2 courts where Jakub Pietrowski lost a three-set battle to Canadian vet­eran Chris James, 7-6, 6-7, 6-3. The match had already been decided, and Pietrowski seemed to ease up letting James run off with the third set. 
Despite Pietrowski winning only one match in singles, Bayliss is patiently waiting for a definite trend before he makes any changes. 
"[Last week against Miami]. he won with the match on the line which is much more difficult," Bayliss said. "He seemed a little shy to pull the trigger at times. But we're just going to wait and see how it goes. We'll wait for a clear pattern." 
However, if the patterns continue for the Irish, the rest of the season looks predictably favorable. 
"We played with a high level of effort," Bayliss said. "We had to work hard for our win. But right now we have a chance to become a good team, and I mean a good team." 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 23, 1998 
• TRACK &fiElD 
Big East tourney produces mixed results 
Men capture second, women fall to ninth 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
The nw n's track and field t;~arn fell just short of its goal of winning the Big East eharnpi­onship. finishing second to Georgotown. whih~ the women ended up ninth. 
The men. whose goal all sea­son has been to bring home a Big East title, instead finished seeond for the second straight year. The Irish lost to Goorgetown 141-127. which was favored heading into the meet. On the women's side, ninth placo was a disappointing result after finishing sixth last indoor season. 
Prior to the meet in Syracuse, N.Y., head coaeh Joe Piane said, "For the men. we'd like to contend to at least be in the top two. On the women's team, we would like to improve on last year's place finish if we can, and that's going to be diiTicult." 
Although the men's team came horne with some lop fin­ishes and impressive perfor­mances. a few close races in which the Irish ended up on the losing end hurt the team in the scoring chase with Georgetown. They were easily in the top two, however, as Piane had hoped, outdistancing last year's champion, Connectieut, by more than 40 points. 
They were led in scoring by senior captain and all­American Jason Hexing, who brought home individual titles in the 3,000-meter run and 5,000-meter run, as well as third place in the mile. 
Hexing b1~eame the first man to win the Rig East title in the 5,000-meter run for three yoars. this being his third straight victory in Notre Dame's three seasons in the Big East. lie crossed the line in 
14:24.31. beating out Georgetown's Jason McCarthy by 1.55 seconds. 
This time is a provisional qualifier for the NCAA indoor ... championships. llis 3,000­meter time was 8:21.06, and in 
the mile, Hexing's time of 
4:13.02 was just ahead of teammate Mike Conway's fourth-place finish of 4:13.34. 
Errol Williams and Mike Brown also captured individual championships. Williams set a new school record of 7.26 in the 55-meter high hurdles, crossing the line two-hun­dredths of a second in front of Karcem Areher of Villanova. Brown defended his pole vault­ing title with a winning jump of 17 feet. 1 l/2 inches. 
Other top finishes on the men's team were by Marshaun West. Danny Payton, Terry Wray, Bobby Brown, Chris Cochran, distance medley relay, and the 4 x 400-meter relay. West took second in the 200-meter dash in 21.66. 
Payton, a senior all-American, lost by a hair to Georgetown runner Matt Kalwinsky. Both runners had the same time of 1:02.88, and Wray was fourth in the event. Brown scored eight points for the Irish with a runner-up fin­ish in the 400-meter dash, set­ting a school record and meet­ing the NCAA provisional quali­fying time in the process in 47.39. 
Cochran placed fourth and fifth, respectively, in the 55­meter and 400-meter dashes. The relay teams each finished fourth. 
For the women, most of the points came in the field events and distance events. Sophomore JoAnna Deeter met provisional NCAA qualifying times in the 3,000-meter and 5,000-meter runs, while Jennifer Englehardt and Kelle Saxcn proved a potent duo in the high jump. 
Deeter was third in the 3,000-meter run in 9:38.61. and fourth in the 5,000-meter run in 16:42.14. Notr11 Dame's Alison Klemmer also finished fifth in the 5,000 meters. 
Englehardt and Saxen, who 11ach jumped 5 feet, 8 inches in the meet, were beaten only by Connecticut's Tamika Toppin, who leaped 5 feet, 10 inches. 
Also placing highly for the Irish were Berit Junker, who was fourth in the 800-meter run in 2:11.5, and Nadia Schmiedt, who ran 1:13.97 to come in fifth in the 500-meter run. 

Tuesday, February 24 • 7:30p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
nckets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday -Friday. 
Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Adult tickets also available at all~~ ticket centers including Orbit Music & L.S. Ayres. 
To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272-7979 
To purchase online: http://www.ticketmaster.com 

This program Is supported by Arts Midwest, a regional 
partn8e'::h~~g!ft~~~~~~~~~~~ t~~~~:n7~~7~~n~rt~~ 


The Observer/Kevin Dalum The Notre Dame women's track team finished a disappointing ninth place in the Big East championships this weekend at Syracuse. Most of the squad's points came in the field events. 
Student Offer 

For Only 
$21e~ 
Week 
Including Sundays. 
"It costs less than your favorite pizza~' 
For campus or home delivery, call 1-800-TRIBUNE and ask for Operator #170 or mail the attached coupon. 
r-----------------------------------------------------------------------------,
32 WEEKS 16 WEEKS 
57% off the newsstand price. • 50% off the newsstand price. • 
D Seven day $67.20 ($2.1 0/wk) DEK' D Seven day $37.60 ($2.35/wk) DEJ' D Mon.-Sat. $43.20 ($1.35/wk) DEK D Mon-Sat $25.60 ($1.60/wk) DEJ D Sun. only $56.00 ($1.75/wk) D Sun only $28.00 ($1.75/wk) DEJ 
If different from above_ # of full term weeks._ # of half-term weeks. 
Payment by: D Check D MasterCard D VISA D American Express D Discover/Novus 
Account No.____________________ Exp. Date________ 
Signature ________________ Name _______________ 
Address _______________ Dorm Address _____________ 
t 
Apt __________ City __________ State _____ Zip _____ I 
I t t I I I 

Mail coupon to: Chicago Tribune 2000 York Rd. Suite 124 Oak Brook. IL. 60523-0001 I 
OP 170 : 
L-----------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
----~----~---------------------~----------­
Monday, February 23, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• HOCKEY 
Irish advance to CCHA playoffs with 4-3 victory 
By CHARLEY GATES happy to achieve that Friday fall fast and furiously for the points. later and dominated most of the Sports Writer night. Northern Michigan Irish to earn home ice. But "We're not afraid of anyone," rest of the period, hammeringplayed a good game, but so did what isn't out of the question is stated Dwyer, "and we'll take senior Irish goaltender MattFor the first time since 1995, we and we came out on top." Notre Dame moving up in the on anyone in the playoffs. Eisler with 12 shots. the Notre Dame hockey team • The Irish dropped Saturday polls to gain a better position. What we'd like to do is to play The Wildcats surged into thewill advance to the CCHA play­evening's CCHA game to Lake The CCHA playoffs are 
good hockey for these next lead 5:24 into the second peri­
offs. Superior State, 2-1, in overtime. structued such that the eighth­three games and get ourselves od, but Eaton responded with
With a 4-3 victory over The loss left the Irish {15-16-4 place team plays the first-place on a roll. A hot team is difficult his second goal of the game.Northern Michigan Friday overall, 10-13-4 CCHA) in team, the seventh-place team to beat in the playoff's." Then classmate forward Chadnight. the Irish guaranteed eighth place in the 11-team plays the second-place team, If the Irish were to climb into Chipchase broke the tie on a
themselves at least an eighth­league. They trail Ferris State and so on. Currently, the Irish sixth place, which they trail by breakaway goal to put the Irishplace finish in the league. by one point and Lake Superior would face top-ranked four points, they would face up 3-2. "Making the playoffs has been State by four pofnts. Home ice Michigan State; if they climbed Ohio State, a team they have Just one minute into the third our goal all along," explained 
advantage, which goes to the into seventh place they would beaten this season. period, Northern Michigan tied
sophomore right wing John top four teams in the CCHA, is face No. 2 Michigan. The 
On Friday night, Notre Dame the game, setting the stage for
Dwyer, whose third-period goal probably out of the question for Spartans and Wolverines are opened the scoring with a goal 
Dwyer's heroics. At the 10:37
proved to be the game-winner Notre Dame. At least it is out of separated by only one point in from freshmen sensation Mark 
mark of the second period, he
that propelled the Irish to the its hands, and it would take the standings, and Michigan 
Eaton. But the Wildcats took a pass from senior center 
post~eason. "We wenCJ very several teams ahead of them to leads No. 3 Ohio State by eight answered just three minutes Lyle Andrusiak and banged 

FINNIGAN'S MARDI GRAS CONTINUES ............ . 
ONLY TWO DAYS OF 
FAT TUESDAY
I\1ARDI GRAS REMAINING The final extravaganza of Finnigan's Mardi Gras.
MONDAY 
Last week was just the beginning, ·'Let's Make A Deal" -You can 
now we have reached the end. Come down for all the giveawaysdress up in costume ifyou"d like but 
we have been saving for the finale. make sure to bring plenty ofodd 
Tuesday, at FINNIGAN'S, the day you can't miss and the day you
items with you. We will be won't forget!
searching for the things on our list 
and giving away prizes to those who 
For additional information regarding the remainder have them. 
of Mardi Gras call 283-0452 
home the game-winner. 
The Irish continued their strong play on Saturday against 
Lake Superior State but ended 
up losing in overtime. 
"We're going to win these 
types of games, eventually," 
Dwyer said. "We battled, but it 
went against us." 
The game remained scoreless for more than one and one-half periods, and again it was the Irish who struck first. Freshman forward Dan Carlson gave the Irish what would be their only goal for the night when he smashed home a rebound off a shot from junior defenseman Benoit Cotnoir. But the Lakers tied the game before the period ended. 
The Irish began the third period with a four-minute power play but were unable to capitalize. Both teams had quality scoring chances. In the end, the puck bounced the Lakers' way and a screened slapshot found its way past Eisler. 
"It's tough to lose a game in overtime," Dwyer explained. "But we played a good game, and we're going to win these types of games soon." 


February 22nd. March 1st 
Keep an eye out for tables in the dining halls with information 
about eating disorders am! how you can recognize them. 
Fos+e~ Room of LaFodl-\~e: Informational talk and question & answer session about eating disorders.

Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
Tomorrow, Tuesday, February 24, 1998 r.--------, r------~~, 
1Unlimited Tanning 1 Or 1 Ten Tanning ' For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 I Only Up To Spring I 1 Bed Sessions • I Break I 1 1
NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
' (3-6-98) only $25 I I only $35 I 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. L--------~ L--------~
University Commons Grape & McKinley 
by UP~Uall near IGHart 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 272-7653 256-9656 




GAL 
page 16 "Strong bodies fight, that the weak bodies may be nourished." Monday, February 23, 1998 
TiiDe to strap on the gloves 

By ALLISON KRILLA Sports Writer 
Fans can expect some heavy­hitting at the 68th annual Bengal Bouts, especially with the large number of veterans vying for a taste of victory in the heavier weight classes. 
A week-long illness dropped defending 180-pound champion Brian Gaffney down to the 175­pound class where the fan­favorite is the top seed. 
"I expect that (the illness) will hurt me a little, but I got a lot of rest over the weekend, and I had a great week at practice," said Gaffney. 
With novice tournament vet­erans and senior Chris Dobranski in the field, Gaffney's quest to repeat will be no cake walk. 
"Anytime you move to a lower weight class, the fighters get faster," said Gaffney. "But I think I'll be able to keep up with my power; I'm going to rely on the big punches." 
"(Gaffney) will be the strongest fighter," said Mike Homanchek, who lost to Gaffney in a semifinal bout last year, "but this class will test his quickness." 
Romanchek, the top seed in the 180-pound field, looks to improve his technique against a crop of evenly-matched boxers. 
"There's a little more pres­sure being the first seed." said Homanchek, "especially since I wasn't expecting it. Anyone in our class could have gotten it." 
Although Homanchek begins with a bye, the quarterfinal match-ups should be tough for the rest of the class, including sophomore Kyle Smith and senior Josh Akers, who moves up from the 170-pound class. Both suffered first-round defeats last year and arc hun­gry for victory. 
With Gaffney's drop to 175 pounds, Romanchek no longer has to worry about "getting beat up again" by "The Nutty Irishman," but the sophomore has mixed emotions because a rematch "would've been a great show for the audience," he said. 
At 185 pounds, the svolte David Butz returns sans 15 pounds, after a loss by unani­mous decision to defending 200-pound champ Troy Phillips. 
"The No. 1 and 2 guys are pretty solid, and overall we have a pretty good weight class," said senior nBwcomer Matt Lubbers, who could meet Butz in the semis with a win over Fred Wulf tonight. 
Traditionally, boxers in the heavier weight dassns rely l!~ss on finesse and try to overpower their opponents. 
"The guys (in the heavier weight classes) do hit a lot harder," said Lubbers. "We also use heavier gloves for more protection." 
Look for Lubbers and fellow seniors Tim Neagle and Andy IIebert to make the most of their Bengal Bouts nxperience. 
This year's heavyweight rlass. is loaded with experienc:e, including the 1997 finalists 
Dave  Monahan  and  Mike  
Homero.  
"All  the  guys  are  pretty  

tough," said fourth-sec~ded Andrew Hiederer. "They have all been in Bengals for at least one year. and have a lot of experience. 
"Everyone has good skill, especially Dave Monahan, who moves rnally wnll. I think it should he real competitive." 
Hiedorer facos Fclipo Reynoso in tonight's only heavyweight bout. 
With more emphasis on tlw fundamentals and loads of tal­ent, the vnterans in the 175­pound weight class and above will be bringing a good show into the ring this wonk. 
New faces, setup highlight this year's Bouts 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Sports Editor 
l'nrhaps the story of the Bouts lay with the new tournament setup and whether or not endurance will be a factor. 
This year. the Bengal Bouts rounds fall today, Wednesday and Friday versus in the past the tournament when the rounds fell on a Sunday, Wednesday and Saturday. 
"It is definitely going to be tougher," said senior Norm Beznoska, who eould have a tough go in the first round because of a broken leg suiTered in the offseason. "It will be a lot of stress on the boxers. It will be easier to get 
fatigw~d." 
"Monday-Wednesday-Friday is not the ideal. but it is not a big deal." senior Hyan Hans said. "Tiwrn should bf~ plen­ty of time to recover. It should not be that bad. 
"In between you ean get some rest and a light workout so it shouldn't be that bad." 
In the 170-pound weight dass, it will be a battle of the hungry. and with the graduation of Pat Maciariello it is time to crown a new champion. Two finalists are returning to the top seeds in the bracket. 
Senior captain Hyan Hans has drawn the top seed in his new dass moving up from 165. In what was anticipated to be the best light of last year's Bengals, Hans faeed fellow captain and three-time champion John Christoforetti in the 165­pound weight elass. Christoforetti showed his power and explosiveness by overcoming Hans' valiant effort. This year Hans is out with a vengeance and looking for thn title. 
Bnznoska also is seeking a title after having made it to the finals only to fall just short. 
"lie is a finalist," Hans said about B•mwska. "And he is really strong and a tough guy." 
Many are anticipating the possible Hans-Beznoska final. Beznoska main­tains that he has to stay focused on the present rather than the future. 
"It is not something really to worry about now because I have to focus on 
the first two fights," 
Beznoska said. 
lie will face sopho­
more Jeffrey Welsh in 
the first round. "I have 
never gotten in the ring 
with him," Beznoska 
said. "I think he is a 
pretty decent lighter." 
Bcznoska maintains 
that tomorrow's light is 
something that he has 
anxiously been anticipat­
ing. 
"It is a big combination 
for me. I am nervous 
and a little relieved 
because it is finally start­
ing," he said. "I am feel­
ing pretty good about it." 
Freshman Patrick Leis 
is ranked third in the 
bracket and at the No. 4 
seed is law student 
Hobert Alter. 
Hounding out the rest . of the field are freshmen 
Josh Thompson, Travis 
Alexander, sophomores 
Jeffrey Welsh and 
.Joseph Kippels. The 
surprise of the bracket 
could be Thompson, who 
Hans termed one of the 
best freshmen. 
"More sophomores 
than any year before," 
Hans said. "Most novices returned to 
light in Bengals. It all speaks well for 
the next year as far as leadership." 
This year's Bengal Bouts premieres 
lots of new faces, especially at the 165­
pound weight class. Grad student Hich 
Molloy and sophomore David Bernick 
lead a large amount of young talent in 
this grouping. 
Molloy is the top man in the bracket coming off a tough loss in the 160-pound weight class to senior Chip Farrell in what was termed the championship's best brawL Hemiek has drawn the fifth seed. Drawing the second seed is senior .James Sur. 
Rounding out the rest of the bracket 
are sophomore Hobert Miyakawa at 

three and sophomore Hector Pimentel at four. The bottom bracket is filled by freshman Chris Muro, senior Fred Chiu, and sophomore Eric Hovan. 
In the 160-pound weight class, Farrell returns as defending champion and accordingly has drawn the top seed. After three visits to the finals, Farrell walked away with the championship by unanimous decision and is anxiously awaiting a second title. · 
Sophomore Thomas Biolchini has drawn the second seed. ln last year's bouts, he fell just short of the finals to Hich Molloy, who has ventured up to 
165. Taking the third seed will be John DeSplinter, who fought at 155 last year. These three look to be the strongest and most experienced of their weight class. 
The majority of the middh~ weights an~ packed with sophomores, and the 160­pound weight class is no exception. 
Sophomore John Berry, sophomoro Timothy Defors, junior Dennis Jovellanos, senior Daniel Toolan, and sophomore Hobert Vuolo round out the rest of the 160-pound weight dass. 
"lie is a first-year lighter and he looks pretty strong," DBSplinter said about .Jovellanos, his first round competition. DeSplinter feels that the seedings appnar to be relatively fair but sornn surprises could pop up as the rounds progress. 
With such a vast array of young talent, there are bound to be surprises in the opening round. Look for the top seeds -Hans, Molloy and Farrell -to advance with ease. 
~-----~---~~-----------------­
-~----------------------~ 
Monday, February 23, 1998 The Observer· BENGAL 
BOUTS 
Few favorites return in '98 ... 
By BETSY BAKER "I think a lot of the pressure is on him have another Associate Sports Editor because he has won twice," Molina con­shot at the title tinued. "But I think he knows I'm a for­he lost to Doug Only one ehampion will return to the midable opponent, and I'm still going to Polina, but will ring in the 125-pound to the 155-pound give him a good fight. I don't ever step have a couple weight classes when the 68th annual into the ring with the intention to lose." of second-year Bongal Bouts begin this week. The 125-pound and 130-pound classes opponents in 
Tommy Will is the sole defender of his will bring a few familiar faces, including his way. While titln in the 135-pound division, and the last year's No. 1 seed, Matt Peacock, and Mellin -now a potential matchup between Will and the man who upset him, David Seerveld, sophomore. -Lueas Molina is expected to be a rematch who has moved up to 130 pounds. went to the of last year's best rrowd pleaser. Seerveld upset Peacock in last year's finals as a 
I lowever, it is anyone's crown to steal 125-pound semifinals, but this year, freshman, he is this year as the graduation or departure Peacock has the experience edge in his Left with a lot of of nine champions has implomented an class, especially without Seerveld in it. pressure on his clement of unpredictability that did not "I definitely trying to win it all this shoulders to exist last year. year," Peacock commented. "I thought I match last 
The Will-Molina matchup is the only could do it last year, but [Seerveld's] year's pefor­bout that many would put their bets reach was a little too much for me. I've mance. On the down on taking plar:e in this year's finals been trying to work on my inside work, other hand, -or at least that many hope will take in addition to what they teach us about those who have place. the in-and-out work, so I can erase some fought before 
Last year's final in the 130-pound class of the height disadvantage." but not tasted went down to the wire, with both Scerveld headlines the 130-pound divi­
The Observer/John Daily 
pugilists uncertain of the outcome, until sion, which also bQasts a list of newcom­with the aide of Senior Fred Kelly hopes to avenge last year's loss in the finals. Will was announced the winner. ers, such as Matthew Altman, Daniel experience, but 
Although Molina weighed in at 129 Gallegos, Martin Garry and Jeremy the reamaining hunger to make it to the decision that went to Ted Pagano in the pounds, ho will fight in the 135-pound Lcatherby. Seerveld is an intelligent and finals. 145-pound class. Many speculate that class this year, but not because of a athletic fighter whose experience should No. 2 seed Dave Murphy credits his Kelly is one of the best-looking fighters in vengeance factor. Molina is too quick, be hard to top by the first-years. first year as a learning experience and this year's bouts and appears unstop­strong, and experienced to light fairly in The 140-pound class features senior feels that this year will be his debut as a pable, but second-seed Stefan Molina the 125-pound class, so program coordi­captain Sean Sharpe who managed to true contender. hopes to put a halt to that specualtion. nator Terry Johnson decided that he evade fighting in Will or Molina's class as "The experience you gain in the first Stefan, cousin of captain Lucas, looks to would fit better in the 130-pound bouts. he did last year, vastly improving his shot year makes a lot of difference," Murphy be the second of the Molinas to accom­Not to mention the fact that the rematch at his first title. Sharpe lost to Will in last said. ''I'm feeling pretty confident this plish a major upset in this year's bouts. should draw a good crowd. year's 135-pound class semifinals, but year, but I'm not going to take anything In the 155-pound, junior captain Mike 
''I'm not really motivated to fight Tom appears to have a clearer shot at the title for granted." LaDuke will Look for his chance to finally Will again, and it is not the reason that this time around. Standing in his way Mellin has a bye in the quarterfinal, come from behind the shadows of former I'm fighting in the 135-pound class," will be the other semifinalist who did not while Murphy will face fellow second­boxers Chris Sikora and John Kmetz ­Molina explained. make it to the finals last year, Michael year fighter Rick Johnson. Murphy whose fmals' fight was one of last year's 
"After last year's loss, I was pretty Maguire, who lost to Molina. expects Johnson, a !aft-handed fighter, to highlights -and make a name for his focussed on getting back in the ring with The 140-pound class is stacked from give him a challenge to which he is not own. him, but over the summer I was married top to bottom, creating no byes and leav­accustomed. LaDuke's major foes in his class boast and my priorities changed. But God will­ing Sharpe to face Guillermo Tijerina ''I'm fighting a lefty tonight, and that's impressive experience, namely Daniel ing that we both make it to Friday night, tonight, and Maguire facing Mark something you don't face in training," Bumpus who lost to 155-pound finalist I'm going to give him everything I've Zavala. Thomas Cranley, a semifinalist Murphy added. ''I'm defi"nitely not look­Pete Titterton and Kevin Murphy who got. .. in the 145-class last year, has shed some ing past tonight." lost to the 157 -pound champion Sikora. 
Will is a defending two-time Bengals weight and is hoping to make another Fred Kelly will return for redemption Still, LaDuke remains the clear favorite champ who has shown no indication of run at the title in a new class. in the 150-pound class, following one of in the class, unless tonight's opponent, his willingness to give up his title. At 145, 1997 finalist J.R. Mellin will the biggest upsets of last year's bouts, a Noel Chakkalakal, can change that. 
hours a day, six days a week, felt like Richard Simmons going six week routine of daily 500 up against Mike Tyson when he
Gaffney 
sit-ups, up to 500 push-ups sparred for the first time mixed with arm circles, jump against a returning champ.
continued from page 20 
roping, running and punching "It was terribly frightening," the bags. Gaffney can now say with aJoyce Center's boxing room on "I got there and enjoyed the smile. "I was so nervous he'da whim. With a little peer pres­workout and the guys," Gaffney beat me up in front of every­
sure and a lot of encourage­
said. "I liked the quality of their one, but I wound up doing allment from an energetic RA, the practices. I know that the most right."
spontaneous Gaffney figured, 
important thing is the workout. After that, Gaffnev soared"Why not?" 
You've got to be in shape." faster than his footw.ork fromOnee he got there it was love Then came the sparring the ranks of so-so to spectacu­at first punch. 
where Gaffney proved himself Lar.
But what Gaffney was really worthy of the 68-year tradition. His father, a former boxer intaken with was the exhaustive As a thin, inexperienced, ter­the Air Force Academy, half­
workouts most would dread. 
rified frushman, he probably jokingly promised to fly fromGaffney reveled in the three 
home in Virginia to the 
match if Gaffney made the 
finals. The then-underdog
68th Annual Bengal Bouts Match-ups 
held his dad to his word. Catching everyone off­guard in 1996, 185-pound 
1 ~~~< 
Gaffney surprised every­
1. Matt Peacock vs. bye ~~-Chip Farrell vs. 8. Robert Vuolo 
one including himself by
5. Patrick O'Shaughnessy vs. 4. Nicolas Schnabel ~ 5. Timothy DeFors vs. 4. John Berry 
winning the title. 
3. Bnan Rigney vs. bye ~ 3. John DeSplmter vs. 6. Dennis Jovellanos 
"After the first round, I couldn't believe I won," he said. "After the second 
2. David Frick vs. bye · 2. Thomas Biolchini vs. 7. Daniel Toolan 
1. David Seerveld vs. bye 1. Rich Moiloy vs. 8. Eric Hovan 
win, I couldn't believe my
5. Matthew Altman vs. 4. Daniel Gallegos 5. David Remick vs. 4. Hector Pimentel 
face was in the paper.
3. Martin Garry vs. bye 3. Robert Miyakawa vs. 6. Chris Muro 
[When I won the title], I
2. Jeremy Leatherby vs. bye 2. James Sur vs. 7. Fred Chiu
1 1 
really couldn't believe it. The success all came
1. Tom Will vs. bye 1. Ryan Rans vs. 8. Joseph Kippels 
faster than I knew." 
5. Jamie Garcia vs. 4. Camilo Rueda 5. Josh Thompson vs. 4. Robert Alter 
He must have loved the role of underdog because 
3. Matthew McBurney vs. 6. Michael Katz 3. Patrick Leis vs. 6. Travis Alexander 
2. Lucas Molina vs. bye 2. Norm Beznoska vs. 7. Jeffrey Welsh
1 1 
in 1997, despite a grand­mother's discouragement
1. Sean Sharpe vs. 8. Guillermo Tjerina 1. Brain Gaffney vs. 8. Eric Saul 
and a mom's inability to
5. Sean Perkins vs. 4. Michael Valle 5. Keith Parendo vs. 4. Chad Maestas 
watch, he repeated histo­ry. 
3. Thomas Cranley vs. 6. Shay Boyle 3. Jack Barber vs. 6. Brian Hobbins 
2. Michael Maguire vs. 7. Mark Zavala 2. Chris Dobranski vs. 7. Josh Nelson
11 
As the Last seed in his 180-pound weight class,
1. J.R. Mellin vs. bye 1. Michael Romanchek vs. bye 
Gaffney fought the match
5. Dave Bann vs. 4. Andrew Yang 5. Kyle Smith vs. 4. Brendan Paulson 
of his life in the champi­
3. Dennis Joyce vs. 6. John Froman 3. Josh Akers vs. 6. Joey Leniski 
onships.
2. David Murphy vs. 7. Dicky Johnson 2. Daniel Prince vs. 7. Matt Rodgers
1 1 
In a grueling three­
round duel, Gaffney went
1. Fred Kelly vs. 8. Dennis Abdelmnour 1. David Butz vs. bye 
the distance to beat heavy
5. Stephe Locher vs. 4. Jeevan Subbiah 5. Fredrick Wulf vs. 4. Matthew Lubbers 
favorite Mike DeBiasi in a
3. Justin Kempf vs. 6. Tom Owens 3. Timothy Naegle vs. 6. Steve Pfeiffer 
one-point, split-decision
2. Stefan Monlina vs. 7. Steven Mehl 2. Andrew Hebert vs. bye
11 
victory. 
"I caught him with an
1. Mike Laduke vs. 8. Noel Chakkalakal 1. David Monahan vs. bye 
uppercut, then I caught
5. Jeffery Dobosh vs. 4. Kevin Murphy 5. Felipe Reynoso vs. 4. Andrew Riederer 
him with three more,"
3. David Wiltse vs. 6. Daniel Bumpus 3. Michael Romero vs. 6. bye 
Gaffney recalled. "I was
2. Adrian Cardona vs. 7. Brendan Reily 2. Peter Ryan vs. bye
11 
the upset and knocked him down. I went and gave my dad a hug, said hi to my family, and talked to the guys. The morning after, I woke up with a good feeling, thinking, 'Oh my God, I can't believe I'm the Bengal Bout champ."' 
That morning also provided the word "ow," which was strategically suppressed during the actual match. 
"Boxing is a sick, sick rush," Gaffney said. "You're adrena­Line is pumping, and you think, 'Oh, I just got decked in the face.' There isn't enough time to focus on what just happened. I'm mostly not even thinking, maybe just thud, thud, thud. The payoffs are big, but Like­wise so is the punch. You usu­ally leave the ring with your head ringing, your nose bleed­ing, and your ribs hurting." 
Known for his long reach and seemingly incessant swinging, the 6-foot-3 fighter has the boom of a barroom brawler, the guts of a Kamikaze pilot, and ~the instinct of a jungle predator. 
''I'm not a barbarian, maybe a Little rough around the edges," Gaffney admitted. ''I'm a brawler; I like to mix it up. It's not a big deal to me if I get punched in the face as long as I'm throwing back. It takes a good beating to figute out what you're doing. Till you get punched you don't know what boxing is about." 
Although the O'Neill Hall president is known for his fighting style, it's his fashion sense that grabs the crowd first. In the past it was his Long sandy-blond hair pulled into a ponytail, but now he will rely on footwear for luck. Renouncing white socks ever since he couldn't find a pair during a high school Lacrosse game, Gaffney has been a firm believer in the argyle fabric. 
"I reneged on the Samson 
deal," Gaffney joked about his short cut. "But it's not going to effect me. I still have the socks. 
"When you watch other guys train and bleed and sweat, you can't help but be inspired. 
"They know they're not get­ting a monogram, they're not getting a scholarship, they're going to have their faces punched in, and some won't even get past the first round, but they keep coming back everyday. I feel honored to be associated with this group of guys.'' 
And he makes sure to show it, fulfilling the role of captain in every way he knows how. Gaffney makes himself avail­able whether Lacing gloves, doing wraps, or most impor­tantly, giving advice to nervous freshmen. 
"I know they're nervous Like we were at first," Gaffney said. "I just tell them to relax and say, 'Before you, 10,000 men have done this. No one has died, no one has been seriously' injured, and you get to be part of a great tradition."' 
No doubt about it, Gaffney's face will be posted among the brawling men of boxing's glory days. Whether his headline will resemble Phil Harbert's "Desperation Right Cross End's Champ's Reign" or the 1966 headline, "Lenahan, Farrell Win Third Crowns in Bengal Bouts" will be dedded after a physical week. 
But it' all starts tonight against an inexperienced, unfa­vored freshman -a lot like the way Harbert went down and similar to the way Gaffney won his first two titles. 
Then again, no one will deny Gaffney is a unique fighter .who refuses to go down. If bets are being placed, the safest would be the headline will read Like an crinkled, fading headline from an ancient Bout: "Champ Retains Title." 

• OLYMPIC UPDATES 
Czech it out! The Czech Republic hockey team wins gold 
Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan No one over mentioned the Czech Hnpublic as a gold-medal contender. 
Canada. yes. The United States, yes. Sweden, yes. Even Hussia. But never the Czechs. 
!Ia! There they were Sunday with fewer NHL players than any of the other five superteams in the this first Olympic "drnarn team" tournament, gold medals hanging from their necks after beating Hussia 1-0 Sunday. 
Petr Svoboda scored with 11:52 to play and Dominik llasnk remained unbeatable in goal as the Czech Hepublic won the first Olympic hock­ny competition featuring Nlll. players. 
"I knew we had a great team," dnfensernan Jiri Slegr said. "I told everyone if we play as a group, we can win it all. Everyone laughed. Now wn're laughing." 
All the way back to Prague for a hugn celebration. It was the Czm:hs' first gold medal in its 17th Olympic hockey tournament. That it carne Hussia made it all the more special. 
This victory had roots stretching back 30 years. Though the political climate has changed dramatically since Soviet-bloc tanks rolled into Prague in the spring of 1968 to erush an incipient uprising, this was very special nonetheless. 
Thirty years later, Czech captain and Pittsburgh Penguin star Jaromir Jagr wears the number 68 as a reminder to all of the Soviet invasion. 
The Czechs (5-1) got to the gold­medal game by defeating the United States 4-1 in the quarterfinals and Canada 2-1 in a semifinal shootout; those teams were co-favorites coming into the tournament. 
II MEDALS 
TABLE 
1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
Sunday, Feb. 22 
60 total events  
Nation  G  S  B  Tot  
Germany  12 9  8  29  
Norway  10  10 5  25  
Russia  9  6  5  18  
Canada  3  5  7  15  
U.S.A.  5  5  4 > 13  
Netherlands  5  4  2  11  
Japan  5  2  4  11  
Austria  2  3  5  10  
Korea  2  6  2  10  
Italy  2  6  2  10  
Finland  2  1  3  6  
Switzerland  2  2  3  7  
France  2  1  5  8  
South Korea  2  0  1  3  
Czech Republic 1  1  1  3  
Sweden  0  1  1  2  
Belarus  0  0  2  2  
Bulgaria  1  0  0  1  
Denmark  0  1  0  1  
Ukraine  0  1  0  1  
Belgium  0  0  1  1  
Kazakstan  0  0  

G-Gold, S-Silver, B-Bronze 
• WINTER OLYMPICS RECAP 

By JERE LONGMAN  Local  schoolchildren  members of the American  knock around on the large  
Associated Press  made  origami  Snowlets  men's hockey team after its  ice  surface, they  rnsorted  
and swans for visitors. Ice­ failed  performance  here  to knocking around the fur­ 
NAGANO, Japan  cream  parlors handed out  seemed espeCially deceitful  niture.  
The  18th  Winter  small toys with purchases  and embarrassing to many  "We are very disappoint­ 
Olympics  came  to  a  cele­ of  chocolate  cones.  other Olympians.  ed and upset with the fact  
.brative conclusion  Sunday  Elaborate  efforts  were  "The  Japanese  people  that a very small few blem­ 
night after 16 days of dis­ made to return lost gloves,  arc so honest," said Cammi  ished the image of proba­ 
ruptive weather and unin­ cameras and money.  Granato,  captain  of  the  bly  191 or  192 athletes  
terrupted good will  on  the  Volunteers  were  courte­ American  women's  gold- here,"  said  Dick  Schultz,  
part of the Japanese.  ous, huge  medal- executive  director  of  the  
While the American pub­ traffic  winning  U.S.  Olympic  Committee,  
lic seemed to lose interest in the final Winter Games  j a m s n e v e r  'CONGRA11JLATIONS  hockey team. ller  referring to members the American team.  of  
of the 20th century, in part  material- NAGANO AND JAPAN.  brother,  It is still not known which  
because of CBS's untimely  ized  as  You HAVE PRESENTED TO THE  Robbie,  players  were  responsible  
coverage,  unexceptional  feared  had  a  lost  for  the  $3.000 in  damage  
television did not equate to  and  the  WORlD THE BFST ORGANIZA- camera  to  a  suite  at  the athletes'  
an unexceptional Olympics.  organiza- TION IN THE HISTORY OF THE  returned.  village, Schultz said, but he  
The Nagano Games had much to recommend them­ tion was impecca­ WINTER GAMFS.'  " T h e y d 0 n ' t  added, "We will deal with it."  
selves,  including  stirring  ble.  steal,  and  The  USOC  has  come  
performances from Bjorn Dahlie, the record-setting  Unlike at the  JUAN ANTONIO SAMARANCH  they have a lot of  under being  criticism for more forceful  not in  
Norwegian  cross-country  1  9  9  6  PRESIDENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL  respect  determining  what  hap­ 
skier, a haul 8f gold medals  Summer  OLYMPIC COMMITTEE  for  peo­ pened  before  the  hockey  
by  Austrian  and  German  Games  in  p  I  e  '  s  team left Japan.  
Alpine  skiers,  unprece­ Atlanta,  things. We  The  Olympic  committee  
dented efforts by Japanese  buses were reliable and the  had been here long enough  has denied that it aided the  
stars, snowballing  success  IBM computer system  was  to  understand  how  much  departure  of the  team  so  
by  American  women  and  dependable.  they respect other people's  that  players  would  not  
local  hospitality  that  was  "Congratulations Nagano  belongings."  have to face possible crimi­ 
warmer and more aromat­ and  Japan,"  said  Juan  Some  of  the  male  nal  charges.  Paul  George,  
ic than the miso soup.  Antonio Samaranch, presi­ American  hockey  players  chief  of  mission  of  the  
"The  friendliness  of the  dent  of  the  International  seemed  to  look  on  the  Olympic team, said Sunday  
people, you get the feeling  Olympic  Committee,  at  Olympic  tournament  more  that  the  USOC  did  not  
of that 1 ,000 times more in  Sunday night's closing cer­ as  a  semester break than  become aware of the extent  
person than on television,"  emony. "You have present­ as  a  legitimate  competi­ of  the  damage  until  the  
said Ray Olsen of Aurora,  ed  to  the  world  the  best  tion.  players had left Nagano.  
Ohio,  who  watched  the  organization in the history  Many of their wrist shots  "Believe  me,  if  we  had  
opening  ceremony  in  the  of the Wintnr Games."  were apparently swallowed  had  a  chance,  we  would  
United States before flying  In that spirit of friendship  ·  in bars instead of fired  on  have  had  them  in  for  a  
to  Nagano  to  see  the  and cooperation, the room­ the  net.  Unable  to  catch  chat," George said.  
Games.  vandalizing  behavior  of  Swedes  and  Canadians  to  

The Observer would like to congratulate the United States Olyrnpic rean1 on its peformance at the 1998 Winter Olympic Garnes. 
H::, ~,:¥r· · 
Monday, February 23, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
..
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
I'f"\ GOING 
CROSSWORD 
Aries -This is a day to be physical. You excel in contact sports, acts of controlled pre­cision, and extending a firm guiding hand. Recognize your own strength and put it to good use. 
Taurus -Get off your high horse before you hit those low overhanging branches. If you do not show a little humility by your own efforts, it may come to you as humiliation. Do what you know is right today. 
Gemini-Your words come out in an impressive stream. but maybe you're taking too long to say something. There is no need to convince some­one who already agrees with you. Stop postponing the inevitable. 
Cancer -You surprise other people by losing patience with them. With so much already on your mind, there doesn't seem to be room for anything else. Find a safe, healthy way to discharge some of that stress. 
Leo -The Sagittarius
SCOTT ADAMS 
Moon makes Leo the king or queen of the jungle for the 
I'/"\ TARGETING Tl-\( I HOPE YOU PLAN TO 
next few days. Your predatory PEOPLE WHO WANT TO 
skills are in top form as you
SELL EDUCATIONAL 
seek to satisfy your appetites.
INVE5T "THEIR SA.VING5 
INfORMATION ABOUT 
Having fun can be a learning
euT DON'T 'K.NOW HOW TO AVOID 5CAI"\S. experience. 
HOW. 
Virgo -Dare yourself to be responsible today. What you have to do and what you want to do are two entirely differ­ent things. Imagining the reward you will earn for all this is your carrot on the stick. 
Libra -This is a day of 

No. 0908
Crossw-ord! Edited by Will Shortz 
ACROSS 30 Getty product 53 Where Lat 1 One of the 33 Broadcasts 
56 'The Outlaws Is Three B's of 
Coming" stars34 Larger than 
ClaSSICal mUSIC 60 Jacket
quarto 5 Mlikshake 61 Hot coal
35 9·to·5 gnnd 
conduit 62 Escape battle 
36 Genre of 17·
10 Church recess 63 "____ spnngs
and 56-Across 
14 F1eld measure eternal" 
40 VIetnamese
15 N1le capital 64 L1ke many att1cs 
holiday
16 Close. as an 65 Classify. as 
41 P1cnic places
envelope 17 "Horse 42 F~rst murder 
Feathers" stars VICtim 20 Put in stitches 43 Gawk at 21 Orders to plow 44 Prevaricates 
horses 45 Placid 22 Eagle's nest 47 Hairless
23 Pencil's innards 48 Stocking flaws 
24 New York nine 
26 Eastern 
49 West lnd1es. philosophy 
e.g. 
29 Scandalous 52 Connect, as gossip girders 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
HEA08ANDSIZA"' 
E X P I A T I 0 N 
0 N E A L P A P A R A Z Z I 
l I E G E AM 
A. S L E E P W A L K 
E R T I 
A T INLjET FOLK~NS 
Ljl E R 
0 s E. S E 
niT AS F U 
L L E~~~
I N N S T E E N 



process and forward motion. You pass the halfway point on a major project, and it all appears to be downhill from here. Allow yourself a few thoughts about what you will do next. 
Scorpio -The world is going crazy around you, and against all reason, you might be drawn into it. Impulse is a two-edged sword over which you have no control. The sim­ple act of getting involved may carry a heavy price. 
Sagittarius -You manage to be in a few places at the same time today. Touching people, animals. and things becomes a vital and necessary sensory experience. Others remark on how much you are laughing. 
Capricorn -Jupiter and Saturn move through your day in a slow, stately dance. 
.. 
Artists and engineers appreci­ate gradual progress. but clock-watchers will be driven crazy. Great possibilities become obvious by evening. 
Aquarius -You move quickly today. your focus sharp, your purpose firmly in place. Conversation is intoxi­cating, especially when you mix it in with the task at hand. Your senses are alive. You are ready for an experi­ence. 
Pisces-The heavy hand of 
authority shakes you out of 
your daydream. This is a day 
for participating rather than 
escaping. You are lucky to be 
let off with a warning, but 
next time might be different. 


blood 
DOWN 
1 Cave dwellers 2 Feel sore 3 Rowmg sport 4 Skirt's edge s Reaction on a 
roller coaster 
6 Burdened 7 Barbecued dish slathered with sauce 
Wanted: Sports 
8 Fllghtboard
abbr. 
47 Divine Miss M 53 H1deous 
copy editors to work 
48 Stopwatch 54 Pager sound button 
55 Express1on of 49 Compulsive understandingdesire 57 Claret color 
once a week. If
so "Begone'" 
51 Quantum -­
58 Ostr~ch k1n 
52 Insect snares 59 Frequently 
interested call 
Answers to any three clues 1n th1s puzzle are available by touch-tone phone 1-900-420·5656 (75~ per mmute) 
Annual subscriptions are available lor the 
1,4543.best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 ·ACROSS 
9 Court 10 Cigar residue 11 Equal 12 lnd1an dress 13 "What ·-IS 
new?" 18 Long. long time 19 Skin art 23 Speech problem 24 Da~ry products 25 Newsman 
Sevare1d 26 Flavor 27 Choreographer 
Alvin 28 Declaim 29 Links w1th a 
space stat1on 30 D1ving bird 31 PoetW H 32 Flair 34 Out of a )Db 37 Quite a 
display 38 Merma1d feature 39 Pathfinder s 
locale 45 Tomd 46lnner· Prefix 
WHO: Freshmen. SoPhomores. and Juniors WHY: You want to run for class office or off-camPus senator or off-camPus co-President WHAT: Pick uP your candidate information Packet WHEN: Petitions due to Student Government Today bY 5:00Pm WHERE: Student Gov•t Office (2nd Floor Lafortune.) Brought to you by Student Government  

• 
• 
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 23, 1998 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 
Same old story: Irish falter in the end 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 
It's amazing how quickly things ean change. What once was considered a sure thing is all of a sudden a huge question mark. 
Less than a month ago, the Notre Dame men's basketball team was considered a virtual lock for the NIT and was even believed to have an outside chance at earning an NCAA bid.
.. 
llowever. that was then and this is now. 
Sunday afternoon, the Irish dropp1~d their sixth game in their last eight opportunities, falling 65-59 to the oppor­tunistic Miami Hurricanes. A team that once boasted a respectable 10-6 record, Notre Damn now stands at 12-12, and that "guaranteed" NIT bid is suddenly in snrious jeop­ardy. 
"We've put ourself in a posi­tion where we onlv have so many more opportunities," said senior forward Pat Garrity. who scored a game­high 29 points to go along with I 0 rebounds. "We've· been playing pretty well but don't have too much to show for it." 
If A's were given fur effort, thn Irish would be on the Dean's List. John MacLeod's squad gave the Hurricanes (17-7, 10-6 in the Big East) everything they could handle right up to the final buzzer. 
Trailing throughout the gamt~. Notrn Dame took its first lead of the second half with 
3:17 remaining. Junior guard Antoni Wyd1e, who tallied 14 

The Observer/John Daily 
Forward Pat Garrity battles for a rebound in Saturday's 65-59 loss to the Miami Hurricanes. Garrity recorded a game-high 29 points en route to becoming the fourth Notre Dame player to crack the 2,000 point barrier. 
By SHANNON RYAN Spor.ts Writer 
Despite owning a treasure trunk of superstitions, Brian Gaffney isn't afraid to conjure up a few ghosts from Bengal Bouts past. Or 
to challenge irony. 
The junior captain and two-year running champ doesn't feel the least bit cursed 
practicing everyday beneath a framed article with the bold h c a d I i n e , "Desperation Hight Cross Ends Champ's Heign." 
The aging, yellowed paper from a Feb. 25, 1976, South Bend 
Tribune describes 
how Phil Harbert, a two-time Bengal Bouts champion and heavy favorite -just like Gaffney -was knocked out
The Observer/John Daily 
The veteran Norris took the frnshman point guard by sur­prise, stripping the ball from Ingelsby for Notre Dame's 18th turnover of the game. Before the Irish could recover, Miami worked the ball into Tim James, whose slam dunk with 
1:15 remaining upped the 
Hurricane lead to 61-57. "When it's late in the game, 
"All I was thinking about was how well I was doing, and what I would do Thursday lin the semi-finals)." Harbert said more than two decades ago in a locker room just like the one points on 5-of-12 shooting, knocked down a running jump shot to give the Irish a 57-55 advantage. 
The lead didn't last long, however. Miami guard Kevin Norris, who was nonexistent for much of the afternoon, emerged in the final three minutes and virtually single­handedly slammed the door on the Irish. 
The 5-foot-9, 175-pound senior knocked down a pair of clutch field goals to help the Hurricanes hold on to a two­point advantage with just under two minutes to play. Irish guard Martin Ingelsby, looking to knot the game at 59, fell victim to Norris' quickness on the very next possession. 

~......_______________________. 
he's (Norris) normally the guy who dons thn damage," said MacLeod. "And he certainly did it today." 
Garrity, who helped Notre Damn stay within striking dis­tance of Miami all day long, sank a pair of free throws with 
1:02 lel't to tighten the game at 61-59. llowever, a mental error by the all-American can­didatP. just seconds later scaled Notre Dame's fate. 
With 34 seconds to play, Garrity fouled James to send the Hurricane forward to the free throw line for a onn-and­one. James missnd the front end. but Garrity was whistled for a lane violation. giving Miami a second ehanee. 
Jamns took full advantage, knocking down both chancns at the charity stripe to extend the lead to four and dose out the Irish. 
"We've got to find someone beside Pat and Ton (Wyche) to step up." said MacLeod. "Wp,'ve got to find SOnHH>IW who ean step up and takt~ some of the pressure ofT !'at." 
The Irish will host Georgntown Wednesday bnfore travnling to Providence for tlw regular stmson finale Saturday. With tlw Big East tounanwnt slated to begin March 4, Notre Dame must maintain a n1cord of .500 or better to havn any shot of naming an NIT bid. 
"We're not panicking or any­thing like that," said lngelshy. "But wn know that wn need to start to put things togetlwr so we can start the post-snason on a high note." 
It's amazing how fast things can chango. 
spooked and instf~ad ust~s the picture captioned "Harbert crumbles to thn canvas out cold" as inspiration. 
"I look at that [Harbert arti­clel everyday," Gaffney said. "I work out right up 
front underneath it. It
al Bengal Bouts 
shows me that noth­ing's a given, and I know I never want to have that headline associated with my
•·u,.'.1Liay 5 p.m. 
name." If Gaffney continues to light like hn has tho past two years. he'll most likely monopo­lizt~ the print by becoming a three-time champion.
ay 8p m 
Now one of six eap­• • tains named for his 
dedication, dctcrmi-
Gaffney will sit in after his nation, and work ethic, Gal1'ney match late tonight against wasn't always such a shoo-in. freshman Eric Saul. As a freshman, "Tiw Nutty 
Ignoring the similarities, the Irishman" showed up in the No. 1 seed in the 180-pound weight class refuses to be see GAFFNEY I page 17 
unexpectedly 55 seconds into Harbert, another two-time champion who was upset in 1976. the third round.
Two-time champion Brian Gaffney will attempt to avoid the fate of Phil 
• 
vs. Georgetown, 
vs. Wisconsin
@M Wednesday, 9 p.m. 
J! 
February 28, 1 p.m. 
vs. Rutgers, 
vs. Minnesota, 
..... 
• ®w 
Wednesday, 7 p.m. 
~ February 28, 9 a.m. --= 
ri:J 
Baseball at Diamond Classic 
vs. Northern Michigan 
Sf ~
February 27, 7 p.m. 
, ~ ... February 28, 7 p.m. 
aJ 
•Final Olympic Results from Nagano 
see page 18 
•Bengal Bouts open tonight 
see pages 16 & I 7 





