
¦ Head coach Bob Davie extends his thanks ¦ Planning on seeing 'Enemy of the State?'' Check 
Monday
co scudents for their support this season. 

out its review and performance at the box office this weekend. 
NOVEMBER 
Viewpoint • 9 
Scene• 10 
23, 1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 57 WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 

'77 All-American killed en route to LSU game 
Toll lioad before tho accid,unt
Dave Huffman, Nat'[ 

occurrnd al the 20.8 mile marker, 
approximately one rniln north n!' !Im ,.____•...-=•Chicago.-... _-­

Charnpionship center, Lake County corporate limits. 

site of accident that claimed
Leary, who was asleep at the timedies in toll road crash of thn accident, told police that he the life of David Huffman, a11d II uffman had left a bar in ND cl~ss of 1978
By NOREEN GILLESPIE Chicago and were traveling to Notre 

N~ws Writn M!ch igan Cit~
Damn for Saturday's Nolre Damc-
1.SU game. f~~,r~::r'..,.-.':iiii!~~==;:,;;,;=~;;='i#J!"i1
lllood samplns that could indicatf) "Alct,'.lwl !s a p:obable !'actor in tlrnwlwtlwr alrohol was tlrn causn or tlrn crash. police s,url. 

rar arl'idPnt that killed formPr Irish 

l.1H1ry was taken to Northlakn 
1'.t>lll.l'r llav•• lluf'fman, '78, lrnvP nol 

Mnthodist Ilospital for trnatmnont of
• ynf. rpt11r111•d. Indiana Stat(' l'olicn 
cuts and bruises to his !'ace and
~aid Sundav. 

uppPr torso. and was reportPd in sta­ll111Tman ·was pronouncl'd dead at ble condition in the intensive care
llw scn,w 1•arly Saturday morning 
unit Sunday night.
wh1•n his ''}7 Ford Taurus left thn 

lluffman, who was a starting cen­
road and travPIPcl 1,000 yards on the 

ter for the Irish f'rom 1976-78,
nwdian lwforp crashing into a guard 

played with quarterback Joe
rail and road sign. lluffman and pas­
SP ng<' r Sti' plw n Leary, :-Hl. we re 

h1• ad!' d 11 asthoun d on · tlrn Indiana see HUFFMAN / page 7 



Mothers, career women 
No flying 


attend classes at SMC
objects, no 

By SARAH MAGNESS "The nature of the curricu­News Writer lum and the schedule are tradi­tional, making it especially dif­Preparing meals, going to ficult for students who want to 

problem 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 

work. completing homework take evening classes. And thosn 
'.'Jews Edimr 

and studying in between pick­are the kinds or classes that the ing the kids up from school are non-traditional students areNo 111w lost their {'c,otball 
just some of the duties that the looking for," she said.
tickets for lif'r. 

non-traditional students like Thosn students who do take
The thrnawncd University 

Margaret Michaels encounter classes at Saint Mary's said
punishnH~nl ror students each day outside of the classes thny like the schedule.
throwing objects in thn 

they attend at Saint Mary's. "The schedule is perfect forstands was not enforced at Nineteen students at Saint me. I love it. I am a full-time
Saturday's l'ootball game, 

Mary's epitomize the images of mom and the classes work outaccording to Chuck llurloy, career women, students and great," said non-traditional stu­
assistant dirnctor 11f Notrn 
mothers by returning to school dent Melissa Wiegand. 
Damn SPc:urity/l'olicn. 

and enrolling as non-traditional Many of' the non-traditional"I thought students n•act­students. students m1rollml this semester
Pc! 1m•l Ly w1dl Lo tlrn prob­

Non-traditional studnnts, as in classes are also employ,!d at
!P 111 s that w11 had," said 

defined by the college, arc indi­Saint Mary's. One of the bnne­llt1rlf'y. "Wn saw marsh­viduals born 
fits of having amallows. hut l think most of during or before job with theLlw .~tud11nts W!'re <'ompli­1975. Some CollPgn is being
ant. 

enroll because able to take
llurl()v, who stood at Galo 

they want to one class pnr
I•: hdo,:H Urn gamn, ilidn't 

satisfy a curiosi­semester.
n•rall any contraband lrning 

ty about some-A non-tradi­
rnnliscawd from students. 

thing like tional student
The Observer/Kevin Oalum 
"Ov!'rall, w,1 appreciated 

ceramics, while like Lynn Saturday when the Irish took the lead over LSU, but several seniors 
Students and fans _celebrated without throwing fish or octupi 
others want to be able to Timmons takes full advantage 
see GAME/ page 4 

continued the tradition at half-time by pretending to throw objects. 
change careers and get a job of that. She works as a director with what they learn in psy­of high school plays in addition chology or business. to working at Saint Mary's anrl 
The oldest such student was has taken tlrnator classes on born in 1933; the youngest in and off since l 989.




ND recruits through.Web 
1971. But young or old, profos­It is not 11 matter of chasing sors agre(' that each student is aftnr grnat aspirations, though.
By ANNE MARIE students could be looking for, improve it, but we've takon a 
a considerable attribute to the Sometimos, as is the case with
MATTINGLY from a vi rtua I tour of tlrn signi,:icant step in the last 
classroom atmosphern. Timmons, students want to
As1ist~n1 News Etfiwr University to directions on ye,tr. 
"We love to have them in expand on a hobby or internst.
how Lo scheduhi a visit as well One of the hallmarks of the 
class. when we can get our "I am now getting formal
Prospoctivo students or tlrn as a live chat room. There are site is a live chat room where hands on them," said chair and training for what I havr, done
past hav1, gallrnrod informa­also links to pages about stu­prospective students can ask 
professor of' English Rosalind all my lil'il. I have been doing
Lio n about Notre Damn by dent life, academic require­questions and receive imme­
Clark. theat('r since I was four,"
reading brochures, lalking lo ments and opportunities, and diate answers. 
There is not an abundance of Timmons said.
currnnt student!-i and visiting an online application. "We can contact manv more 
non-traditional students at But being an employee is notlho campus. But now they "I think we're one of the top people through the Web [than 
Saint Mary's. Teresa Marcy, the only reason students come
havu yt1t anothur tool: the institutions in the country with phone calls!." he said, 
assistant to the vice president, back lo the classroom.
lntHrnet. now," said Paul Carm,y, asso­noting that 2,000 potential 
explained why non-traditional Wiegand, a graduate of Holy
The Notre Dame undcrgrad­ciate director of the office of applicants participated in the 
students make up just over 1 Cross College, is in her second u a tn ad missions website admissions, of the University's first of this year's sessions. 
percent of the student popula­
includes almost any and all onlinc recruiting program. information that prospective "We're continuing to try to see ONLINE/ page 4 tion. see STUDENTS / page 4 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Monday, November 23, 1998 

What is Good? What is Bad? 
Once upon a lime a farmer's only horse ran away. His neighbor came by to console the Janner, /mt the farmer merely replied, "Oh, who knows what is good or bad?" 
'lnenextdaythe -------­horse returned, bring-C.R. "Teo" Tedodro 
ing with il a herd qf lllusuaiions Editor 
wild horses. This time 
the neighbor came over to congratulate the farmer, but again lhe farmer replied, "Who 
knows what is good or bad?" 
On the third day, the farmer's son mounted one ofthe wild horses to break it and instead broke his leg whPn he was thrown. Upon hear­ing ufthe son ·s misfurlune, the neighbor wished to share the farmer's .<1adness. But the farmer only replied, "Who knows what is good or bad?" 
On thefourth day, some gm,ernment agents came lo draft the farmer's son into the army. But seeing that he had a broken Leg, they deferred him. The neighbor, upon hearing the news, wanted to share in the gladness. But the farmer. in his ultimate wisdom. again replied. "Who knows what is good or bad?" 
This story helps illustrate one of my views on 
life. Many in society tend to think in terms of 
only a duality, of black and white, of good and 
bad, of light and dark. Sometimes we situations 
too quickly and fail to see the good in things 
that are bad, or even the bad in the good. We 
forget the interaction between these two forces 
and only sec one over the other. 
One example of how the good and bad are 
not clearly defined happened over the week­
end. I was asked to attend a 24 hour retreat by 
a friend from Friday night to Saturday night. 
Apprehensive at first, I reluctantly did attend 
this retreat. At first I did keep an open mind 

about it and tried to enjoy myself. By the end of 
the retreat, I admitted that I really did not have 
a good time. Knowing my track record with 
retreats, I wasn't surprised. Despite the fact 
that I didn't enjoy myself, I would not say it 
was a complete waste of my time. What is 
good? Whatis bad? 
For this retreat, I was asked to bring a can­
dle for one of the rituals that were planned. 
Because I didn't have a candle myself, I had to 
ask one of my friends at Welsh Family Hall to 
hook me up. After the retreat I was feeling a 
bit bummed, but I decided that should just 
return the candle to my friend in Welsh. After I 
managed to get pass the detex and sneak into 

the dorm, I noticed that some of the areas were 
decorated. As I arrived at my friend's room, I 
asked her what the decorations were for. She 
confirmed my suspicions by saying that Welsh 
would be having their SYR that night. After 
checking out the decorations and saying 
"W'sup" to some ofmy lady friends, I proceed­
ed to return to my dorm. Before I left, however, 
I was stopped by one ofmy friends who didn't 
have a date yet. As it turned out, she asked me 
to accompany her for that night. I would say 
that was an excellent night after an unpleasant 
day. 
The question of good and bad has no real 
answers in my world. Despite my disagreeable 
time at the retreat, how can l say that it was 

bad? Ifit wasn't for the retreat, then I wouldn't 
be asked to bring a candle, then I wouldn't 
need to ask for a candle from mv friend in 
Welsh, then I wouldn't need to bring it back, 
then I wouldn't be asked to go to the SYR from 

another girl at Welsh, then I wouldn't have had 
a ludicrous and ecstatic evening. But keeping 
in mind that I cannot truly say what is good 
and what is bad, I had to acknowledge that I 
couldn't judge if that night was indeed good for 
me. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Universities contest plan for segregation in Florida schools 


TAMPA 
Despite explosive applause that erupted every time a Florida A&M University representative stood and railed against the classification sys­tem they called "legalized segrega­tion and inequality," the Hoard of Regents passed it unanimously Thursday evening. 
The tier plan, which divides the state's 10 public universitios into three levels with corresponding edu­cational missions, has been vehe­mently opposed by some universities that would fall in the third-tier. 
Remarks flung loudly from the crowd of about 200, echoing the message of speakers denouncing the plan. 
"We've gained national recognition on our own," said PAMU student body president Kristin Tucker, whose comment was followed by a shout of "say it again." 
"We've gained national recognition on our own," she repeated, empha­sizing that FAMU supporters feel a classification system is not necessary because l<AMU -an "underfunded and ignored" institution -has suc­ceeded for 111 years as the state's only historically black univ1wsity. 
Tucker presented a tier-plan alter­native developed by FAMU's student government, which called for each university to form a committee to define its own mission while abolish­ing the concept of university classiti­

¦ UCLA 
Student employees threaten strike 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 

Upcoming student-employee strikes throughout the UC system, including UCLA, may affect undergraduate studies, causing discussion sections, grades and finals to be altered or cancelled due to lack of teaching assis­tants and readers. The unions have announced that until the University of California recognizes them and is willing to bargain with them, they are prepared to strike. "We are not trying to strike our undergraduates' education," said Connie Razza, an organizer for the Student Association of Graduate Employees/United Auto Workers (SAGE/UAW), the graduate student union at UCLA. "We are striking only our labor." Sources at vari­ous campuses have hinted that the strike could begin the week following Thanksgiving. The university has stated that it will do everything within its power to ensure that undergraduate studies' do not suffer. 
¦ VVEST VmG!N!A UtilVERS!TY 
Student charged with beating kitten 
MORGANTOWN, W.V. 

A student who is being charged with the alleged beating death of a kitten has chosen to drop himself from the rolls, according to an official. Michael James Vega, of Madison, Wisc., was charged with cruelty to animals, disorderly con­duct and underage consumption of alcohol stemming from an incident occurring Nov. 13. Vega, accompanied by his father, attended a hearing in E. Moore Hall by the Office of Student Life on Thursday to face possible disciplinary action by the University. Rather than face the possibility of suspen­sion or expulsion, the student informed the panel he planned to withdraw from the University. Vega reportedly expressed "full responsibility and remorse" for his actions and plans to undergo alcohol counseling, according to dean of students Tom Sloane. The 18-year-old pre-political sci­ence freshman must now leave the University for at least the next academic year. 
cation. The Regents did not consider the alternative. 
Some say the third-tier, or "Comprehensive" status, puts schools at a disadvantage for funding and growth. 
UF, classified in the top "Research I" tier with two other schools, sup­ports the plan that further boosts it to the top of national academic and research ranks. With the plan. Ur, Plorida State University and the University of South Florida will focus on research and graduate education. 
The next tier, "Research II," will focus on graduate and undergradu­ate education. 
Third-tier schools will focus on undergraduate education. 
State University System Chancellor Adam Herbert modified FAMU's sta­tus Wednesday from comprehensive to "Comprehensive/doctoral." 
¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Bar may face charges in student death 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
An East Lansing bar could face penalties in the death of Michigan State University student Bradley McCue, who died Nov. 5 after drinking 24 shots at the establish­ment. The investigation into McCue's death is complete, and no criminal charges are planned. But civil charges are possible for Rick's American Cafe where McCue drank to celebrate his 21st birthday the day of his death. At a Thursday press conference, Ingham County Prosecutor Stuart Dunnings III said there will be no warrants issued in McCue's death. either for the bar or for the people who were with McCue at the time of his death. Dunnings said the office considered issuing a misdemeanor charge to one of the other people involved, but decided against it. However, a violation report on Rick's has been referred to the Michigan Liquor Control Commission. 
¦ WESTERN KENTUCKY IJN!VERSITY 

Fraternity member arrested for arson 
BOWLING GREEN, Ky. 
A Warren County grand jury indicted a Kappa Alpha Order member yesterday on charges of first degree arson after Tuesday's early morning fire that destroyed the frater­nity's house. Hillview freshman Charles Joseph Wick II, 19, at the location of the former Kappa Alpha house, after being questioned by an investigator from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. He is being held in the Warren County Regional Jail on a $100,000 cash bond. Alan Simpson, Wick's attorney, said he will enter a not-guilty plea when the case goes to court. A date has not been set. If convicted, Wick could spend 20 years to life in prison. Wick refused to comment from the jail, and it remains unclear whether he confessed to the crime. Don York, ATF public information officer, said Wick "made some admissions in the interview, and they took that information to the common­wealth attorney's office." 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 23. 


News Scene 

Anne Marie Mattingly Mike Vanegas Noreen Gillespie 
Graphics 
Finn Pressly 

Scott Hardy 


Sports 

Production 
Kari Miller 

Karhleen O'Brien 

Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Colleen Gaughen 

Dave Laheist 
~ ~ A ..dl ~ ~ 0-~ ~ 
... ,,,,~,~....._:. ·i·.:::•.::1· -:..-::..--:. .,;,,_.:,, .. ,.,...·:*··
The Ob,erv<r (USl'S 59~ 2-4000) i, published Monday ,hrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Jee Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
V,a Associated Press GraphlcsNel
rhe A,sociated Pres,. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Anaheim  75  51  Boston  60  46  Manhattan 61  47  
Anchorage 20  13  Cheyenne 52  32  Mobile  72  57  
Aspen  44  13  Chicago  60  34  Omaha  60  30  
Atlanta  62  52  Detroit  60  38  Phoenix  80  52  
Boise  52  40  Hershey  61  41  Roanoke  67  48  



----------------~---------------, 
Monday, November 23, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Office of admissions to focus on foreign students 
1\y FINN PRESSLY 
New:-. \X'ritcr 
Stud1•11t visas, int,~rnational exchangn rates and customs rngulations may not conc1ir11 the average Notre Dame stu­dent, but for some students on campus, these am daily consid­tirations. 
International studonts cur­rently make up approximately 
two percent of the student bodv, and members of' the Office of Undergraduate Admissions are currently in the process of forming a plan to sPe that porcentage rise. 



For tin1e and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 

CAMPUS SHOPPES• STATE ROAD 23 • 219.243.9446 (NEXT TO WOLF/ES -WHERE TRACKS USED TO BE) 
Pearl Jam -Live en Twe Legs ®nly 610.11'l CD 67.11'lCassette 
ffletollica -6arage Inc. @nly 617nq Deuble CD 6l2.ct11 Deuble Cassette 
Visit our 2 other locations: 
•Town 
& Country Shopping Center• US 20 • 219.256.5898 

•Belleville 
Shopping Center • Western Avenue • 219.289.1929 


www.infinitech2.com/orbit 
For over six years, thci recruiting of international stu­dents on the undergraduate level has been conducted under the auspices of Stephen Grissom, director of External Operations for the Officn of Undergraduate Admissions. 
"A U.S. citizen whose father is a Fortune 500 pxecutive and is living in Singapore is not an international student," Grissom explained. "What we're talking about are citizens of foreign countries who are studying abroad. 
"We've cxpandnd our admis­sions staff' l'or general purposos, but a part of that was tu be able to isolate a staff member to oversee the process for Latin America, one for Canada and Europe and another for Asia and Africa," said Grissom. 
Felicia Johnson has been appointed to direct recruitment in Latin America, Michael Gantt for Canada and Europe,. and Daniel McGinty for Africa and Asia. Operations in Latin America arc also assisted by Father Jim McDonald, assistant dean of the law school. Grissom himself will remain on campus to be involved in the overall process. 
Grissom has not only expand­ed his staff'. but has also con­vened a committee to address initiatives aimed at increasing the number of international students on campus. 
Earlier this fall. Grissom rnnt with four international stu­dents, assistant provost for Enrollment Dan Saracino and the International Advisory Board to ·Axamine prnliminary parts of the process. 
"Wu are now holding our sec­ond meeting with a small but larger international student group on campus to brainstorm possible futurn intornational student initiatives," said Grissom. "We anticipato that prior to Christmas break, we will have isolated a series of' initiatives that we can begin to initiate with heavy student involvement early next semes­ter." · 
The overall goal of many of these initiatives is to increase tlrn number of international students on campus. 
"J\-s we look to the future, wo are looking to increaso our international student popula­tion from two percent to rive pflrcent of an incoming group by the fall of 2002." 


Prof to publish journal on church architecture 
Special to The Observer 
The inaugural issue of Sacred Architecture is being published next week by Duncan Stroik, associate pro­fessor of architncture at Notre Dame. 
The new journal, which will appear three times a year. will examine issues of tradi­tion and innovation in new church design and will include critiques of new churches and Catholic buildings as well as news, theory, and book reviews. 
According to Stroik, Sacred Architecture is partially a response to the numerous requests he has received from Catholic pastors and laity for information and advice on church design and evaluations of church architects. In an introductory editorial he writes that such requests indi­cate a need !'or "an architec­tural publication which will draw on the riches of the Catholic patrimony and articu­late the principles for a sacra­mental architecture." 
He notes that while most major Catho Iic journals include criticism of contempo­rary film, drama, music and art. surprisingly little atten­tion is paid in their pages to contemporary church archi­tecture. By sponsoring "sub­stantive debate about sacred architecture" in a journal "committed to the promotion of the cultural htiritage of the Church," he hopes to address "a sudden awareness that what we have been praying in for the past few decades has not measured up." 
Rtn~to rtturn your n~ nudent lift ium,, to tllf Uu~ent 6ov'toffice ~ Tllffllar llovember 14! 

-~yal8CK 

' 
\ 
,' ~ \" 
) 
. . I /
' . I 
' / 
\ 
\ 

at 


page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 23, 1998 
Nov. 10," he said. "We hope said that foreign students 
Nicole Mercado, who takes 
to have at least 600 [online have to fill out the application business classes with a few


Online Students
applicationsJ." in English because fluency non-traditional students. 
Carney attributes the trend 
to a number of advantages of 
the online svstem. 
"It's much easier for a kid 
to access,•· he said. "They 
don't have to ask for an appli­
cation -they have [one] 
immediately. 
"There's no postage and no 
waiting," he continued, noting 
that when the student is 
ready to submit the applica­
tion, "it's automatically 
there." He also pointed out 
thal the ease of using the 
backspace key instead of 
white-out attracts students 
and that applicants can ask 
parents or guidance coun­
selors to review their applica­
tions by providing them with 
his or her login name and 
password. 
Although the site contains introductory pages in five other languages "to make [international students] feel more comfortable," Carney 

ntact: Volunteer Coord· · 214 E.30th St. · New York, NY 10016 (212) 889-4310 
site: www.littlesiste 
continued from page 1 
Student participation in the chat rooms may also be a future development of the site, Carney added. 
Prospective students can also apply online, according to Carney, who noted an increasing trend in the num­ber of online applicants. Three hundred of a total 8,578 applications last year were electronic, and the University has already received 345 this year from early-action applicants alone. 
The number of unlinc inquiries about the University, primarily in the form of e­mail, is up as well. according to Carney, who said that in 1998 the total number of elec­tronic contacts was 2,224 and that so far this year that num­ber has more than doubled to 4,702. 
"We're up 111 percent as of 

will be necessary to succeed at Notre Dame. 
Recruiters expect the site to receive 35,000 hits this year, according to Carney, who said that there are an average of 362 visitors per day. 
"This will be a much bigger part of our admissions process in coming years," he said. "In terms of serving the people we're interested in recruiting, it'll be a big part of what we do.'' 
Despite its popularity, Carney does not anticipate that online recruiting will replace traditional, personal contact methods. 
"I don't know that we'll ever get away from paper or the personal approach," he said. "We'll never be without the personal tough, which is a Notre Dame strong point. They get the feeling of the Notre Dame family even from our Web site." 

'D~~ &aar/4iaH, L~aHd L~ 
Courses in Chinese and Japanese Literature and Culture 
(Spring 1999) 
LLEA 250 (TH 2:00-3: 15) Introduction to Chinese Literature 
LLEA 253 (HIST 221) (MWF 1 :55-2:45) Introduction to Chinese Civilization (This course will be taught here at Notre Dame, NOT in France!) 
LLEA 356 {TH 3:30-4:45) Mirrors of the Floating World 
LLEA 368 (TH 12:30-1 :45) Self and Society in Modern Japanese Literature (NOTE: CLASS OFFERED 12:30-1:45 NOT 13:30-1:45) 
LLEA 370 (TH 3:30-4: 15) 20th Century Chinese Literature 
--¦

Broaden Your education! Look bevond the familiar! 
continued from page 1 
year of classes and is moving closer to getting her psychology degn~e from Saint Mary's. 
"I want to combine mother­hood and career. And I really enjoy the students at Saint Mary's. I am affected by their spontaneity and genuineness," Wiegand said. -While the non-traditional stu­dents enjoy the classes at Saint Mary's, they acknowledge that it is difficult for a variety of reasons. 
"I love it, but this 

semester has selves. It is a 
been tough 'IAND THAT THEIR LIFE 

commitment with papers EXPERIENCFS BRING SO to education and obliga­and their 
tions outside MUCH TO THE CLASS AND 

families that of class," EVEN GIVE THE CLASS MORE keeps these women work­
Michaels said, ENERGY WITH THEIR EXCITE­

noting that ing hard in she involves MENT TO LEARN.' and outside herself full-of class. time with The non­children, vol­Bmcm BYRNE tr ad it i o n a I 
unteering. JVNJOR, SAINT MARY'S COURGE students gain 
"I find that their life experi­ences bring so much to the class and even give the class more energy with their excite­rn ent to learn," said junior Brigid Byrne. 
"She connects the concepts we talk about in class to her marriage and children. And this helps when themes we talk about go outside the scope of a typical college experi­ence," Byrne said. 
The women who choose to come back to school are doing 
so because 
they want to 
bettm· them­
work and school. 
The time lapse since the stu­dents were in school is also a factor. 
"I have learned a lot and the classes push me a lot. It says a lot if I can still be learning," Timmons said. 
Traditional students enjoy having the non-traditional stu­dents in class, too. 
"It puts a lot into perspective when these students come in with issues that are about more than an upcoming dance or how we are going to get home on break," said junior 

advantages with their traditional classmates as well. 
"There is nothing more pro­found than youth," Wiegand said. 
"It is easy to see who is real­ly there to learn and who is there just to get by and be done," said Timmons. 
Together, traditional and non-traditional students col­laborate to create a rich atmosphere. 
"The non-traditional stu­dents are something different, who broaden the perspectives of the other students and are real-life examples that learn­ing is lifelong," said Susan Vance, assistant to the vice­president. 


Gante 
continued from page 1 

the students' understanding of the serious injury that could be caused if projectiles are thrown," Hurley said. "They were pretty compliant. We're quite thankful." 
One student was denied entry for attempting to enter the stadium with alcohol, and five fans were escorted from the stadium on alcohol-related charges. 
"I think there were live ejec­tions -I'm talking about the entire stadium. These were alcohol-related cases, and four 
[individuals]  were  arrest­ 
ed, '"'Hurley said.  
South  Bend,  St.  Joseph  

County and Indiana State police oflicers were involved in the arrests. 



Womens Basketball 
They defeated 4th ranked

vs. 
UCI.A last Saftlrday!! 

#24 Illinois 
See this cnveso111e team in action for 

Tttesday, Nov. 24th 
yourself!! 7:30pm 
First 500 Jaus in gate JO will receive a 
All students, faculty and staff ---FREE 
FREE adidas headband!! 
~ 
. :·(? 
• ••r. 

. "'· .
.. . .~-.,' ·. "., '~ .-· 
• It , ,, ;· 



__________..,_,..___., 
Monday, November 23, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Swissair: system not at fault 
ZUHICII 

Swissnir has d1•fo11dncl un in-flig-ht nnlcr­tainnwnt systPm that it rnmoved from planes l'ollowing the crash of Flight I 11 off Nova Scotia in S1iptPmlJ1•r. Swissair acted volun­tarily to disco1111Pd tlw video system, linked Lo a powt•r supply routnd through thn cnck­pit, al'tPr Canadian invPsligators d('lerti>d sign:-; 111' lwat daumj,lC on wiring and other d1•hris from tlw cockpit or thn Mil-I I. The C'f"<'W l'l'IHH"tl'd smok1• in tlw cockpit 1f, min­lltl's bc-l'orn llw plam, hound l'ro111 Now York to (;l'!lPVH crastwd in tlw sea Septomhcr 2, killing all 229 pPoplP on board. Tho cawrn of tilt' rrnsh has yl't to bP dntnrmirw<L "It's the IPading product, rnstonwrs liked it, and its inslclllation was rnlTl'dlv c1n·til'i11d," CEO 
IPffrpy Katz was quotf'd s(111duy as saying in tlw Zurirh wt•Pkly SonntagsZnitung. "As l'ar as WI' know now, WP did t>VNything corrncl­fy ." Swissair is l.!w only n1stortHH' l'or the sys­lf'm, 111an11L11·turPd bv Pho11nix-bascd lnLt·1-ai·liVP Flight TPrhnol;igiPs Inc. 
Train crashes into house 
TBOY. Ohio 

!lob and Brian Yantis am used to trains ,-!laking tlwir duplt!X. Crashing into it is anotlwr story. Th<~ brothers were Imme watd1inv; lt'lnvision Saturday night when an mnpty rail car from a CSX Corp. freight train dPrailt'd, jumped thn tracks and ran into ltwir front porch. Brian Yantis said Sunday that it was likP a bomb exploded. "Trains always shake tho housn when they go by lwrn. This was a little difl'lmml," he said. The rail car canrn to rest on the porch that it had dflslroynd, hut there was no other damage to llin house. No one was injured. Calls to CSX's lwadquarters in Jacksonville, Fla., wern not answered Sunday. Only the 24th car of the l!J-car !'might train derailed, police Sgt. Chuck Adams said. There was no damage to 
Uw track. 
U.S. launches Russian satellite 
CAPE CANAVEHAL. Fla 

In the first launch if its kind, an American­rnad1i broadcasting satellite rocketed into orbit Sunday night to scrvn Russia. The sat<,llitn, launched by rocket maker Boeing. is designNI to providn dirnct-to-homn. digital TV snrvicn to a potential 200,000 subscribers in western Hussia and Hussian speaknrs in lsraf'I. Fifty channels will be available. Oµnrations should bogin by the end of DecmnhPr, said Vladimir Goussinsky, board dmirman of Media Most. a Moscow media group that owns Bussia's NTV. Goussinsky insistnd Urn government will not interfere with programming: "Our aim is to open a window ID Hin world." But Im changed the suh,irn:t wh!\ll asked how many Russians can afford digital TV. Ilughes Space and Communications Co. built the satnllitn, which was laundwd aboard a Boeing Dnlta rocket. Tlw satl'llitl' and rockt>t rnst $150 million. 
¦mwtlH1ffl1iiiiV4J 
Dow 
AMEX: 
675.01

JONES 
d.7'J 

Na~daq:

9159.55 

1928.21 
+8.5J 
NYSE: 
572.08 
++5 ..U 
s&r soo: 
11 (L).55 

Composite
+ 10.94 

Volume: +103.50 684,400,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

i UMl16~~· [IflCU:1 '!!1, 11,ltsiil-J hA.I~ l'Bll't 
l I ~J\,\Nl ~ U~P n, +4 ..i,tl +0.b2~0 14.HllO AMltW"Al1f\:IINI Alll +I .H tl.1250 HM75(l l lllt,IHllll' f.('! '"l."l ,..l,!'12.SO 4~.IJ6Z5 1·1>Ml'Ali l"i)~il'l/Hk l 01'l) +O..i7 +ll.1250 ],t,(}62!1 l'!fll.ll"Mlllfkl\l'tl MU . U,7'1 +0.,l.17.S. 5.'i,.7."i-00 (I\H ri-..·(· IISV ,O.i6 ..u.m,z.r:. r4.tM2.~ HANfo;AMI.IUI.A ('.t>R.1' IIAC +2.. .f + 1..\1}{)0 OJ.{1625 IHWI J.fl-llACK,\ltH IIWI' ·212 -1.i~tl() ~I.Kil; l llt J'.Nl I l.1.!I L'\Jf LI 1 L~b uno H6.50(Kl ,,toto1'ul.A !!'I.C \·HI! i,"i,.'H'l "':i,2,':iOO oU~OO 
¦ HAITI 

AsSOCIATED PRESS 
PIGNON 
llillary Rodham Clinton visited U.S. -supported hos­pitals in Haiti Sunday, one of the few encouraging signs in a country rescued by the United States from dictator­ship but not from poverty. 
Mrs. Clinton was winding up a tour of hurricane-rav­aged Central American and Caribbean countries where she promised more disaster relief. She left for home later Sunday. 
In Haiti. she announced the United States would add another $2.1 million to a $12 million storm relief package. 
But she focused her visit on health care in Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere. 
Mrs. Clinton toured the Bienfaisance Hospital in Pignon, a small northern farming town of 20,000 peo­ple, and complimented the facilities more than 500 midwives for saving moth­ers' lives. 
"What you're doing is very important," she said. fn Pignon, only 190 of every 100,000 mothers die in childbirth, much lower than the national rate of 456 per 100,000. The United States gives the program $700,000 a year. 
Also enthusiastic about the program was farmer Dereus Marcellus, who was among more than 100 resi­dents who came to greet Mrs. Clinton. 
Marcellus, 33, said his wife died several years ago while giving birth to their seventh child, who also died. "The hospital was going to teach us family planning. It was too late," he said. 
"His case is typical. That's why we need to move med­ical education out of the capital and into the country­side," said Dr. Arthur Fournier, professor of fami­ly medicine at the University of Miami School of Medicine, which will provide technical assistance to a new medical education pro­gram. 
The $1 million pilot phase, with Bienfaisance llospital as its center. will be also financed by a foundation of George Soros. 
Forty percent of Haiti's 8 million people have no access to health earn and 75 percent have no access to family planning services. 
One child in eight does not live to the age of five, the highest rate in the hemi­sphere. One in thren is chronically malnourished. 

¦ IRELAND 
Irish PM: unification 'irresistible' 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
DUBLIN 
The peace agreement for Northern Ireland has helped make the British provinco's ev,mtual unificaiion with Ireland "irresistible," Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern said Sm1day in an intt1rview likely to irritate many northern Protestants. 
April's accord among the British and Irish governments and eight N'orthorn Ireland parties 011visioned that the province's Homan Catholics and majority Protestants would gov­nrn in coalition. The coalition govern• ment has yet to be formed. · 
Ahurn said that by halUng the Irish R(ipublh;an Army's 30-yo,i.r campaign of' violence aimed at ending British rule in Northern Ireland, the accord had removed a major !'actor deter­ring Protestants from accepting clos­er Lies to the rest of Ireland. The tnA crilled a truce in Julv 1997, and the outlawed group's ttlli1id Sinn Fein party hacked the accord. 
'I'VESAID I BELIEVE IT WILL BE IN MY LIFETIME. I DON'T KNOW HOW l.()NG I'll LIVE, BUT I DO THINK IT Wll.t HAPPEN.' 
BERTIE AHERN 
PRIME MlNJSTER OP IRELAND 

Asked in an interview with the Irish national broadcasters RTE whether Irel.tud might be united within 10 to 15 years, Ahorn said that seemed "too short." 
"l've said l believe it will be in my lifetime. l don't know how long I'll live, hut I do think it will happen." said Ahern, 47. 
He speculated that a referendum in Northern Ireland within the next 20 years might show majority support for unification because tho accord will likely increase cooperation between his government and the new administration in Belfast, the capital of Northern Ireland. 
Ahern said this cooperation, com­bined with continuing coase-fires by the IHA and outlawed pro-B1·itish militant groups in Northern Ireland. would providtl "an Irresistible dynamic'' toward .forming a new all­Ireland government. lie said the key was to "keep vlohmce out of it." 
His prediction clashed with the public position of British Prime Minister Tonv Blair, who has said during visits to Northern Ireland that Ireland won't be united within the lifetimes of his teen-age children. 
April's accord emphasiz11d thnt. Northern Iroland's union with Britain will continue as long as majority opinion in thu territory supports it. Opinion polls havu consistently shown that morn than two-thirds of its residents support their British links. 


page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 23, 1998 
N.D. Right to Life Club Presents: 
Pro-Life Stations around the Lakes 

Monday, November 23, 1998 8-p.m. at the Grotto 
****Weather permitting. In case of extreme weather, event will be postponed until Spring '99. **** 
Monday, November 23, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Hufhnan 
continued from page l 
llnavf"ns, rpmembers the moment as a symbol of lluffman's loadorship. 
"lln snapp,id tlrn ball to .Jou Monlana. and Joe did his thing," llnavcns said. "It all startnd with 
Davn.  lh~  was  an  innndible  
lrnulllr."  
Toammatns  nrnHimher  

I lull'man as a "warm. warm guy, anti a dnc1rnt human lrning." Il1mvens said. 
I.d't hallha1:k Vagas Furgeson. '79. who is thn third all-time lnading rusher for tho Irish. 
remembered Huffman's humor as a key component of the '77 team. 
"lie was a f'un guy -a joke­ster." said Furgeson. "You always knew when he pulled something. You could hear his laugh all through Lhe locker room, and you hoped it wasn't you. lie was always on !head coach Dan I Devine about some­thing. The second IDevincl turned his back, Dave would he at him about something. But he nnver did anythin){ to embarass anybody. That wasn't his style." 
Huffman was named to tho All­American team in 1978. and was a Sl!cond round sdect.ion in the !'\FL draft for lhe Minnesota Vikings in 1979. He retired from football in 1990 and worked as a radio-TV commentator at KPAN in Minneapolis, Minn. lie was working in sales at Honeywell, Inc., in Mt. Prospect, Ill. at the time of his <loath. 
He is survived by his wife. Cindy, and two children, 12­year-old daughter and a nine­year-old son. 
"The LhoughLs and prayers of the class arc with him," said James Coyne, town crier for the dass of '78. 
'Tm gratel'ul lo God that I got to know such a person," IIeavens said. "My prayers arc with his famil~ ~.ow. They need it. We n,11 need ,t. 


!Got News? 1-53231 
t\011a\ ••• 

ter11a  .  .  
'"  Go overseas this  summer and put your education to the test.  
The World is Waiting.  


The Internship Program and the Institute for Developing Education are sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International 
gc11al\e119i11  • • •  Business Development and participating companies and universities in: Ireland, Russia, Hong Kong, Estonia,  
Lithuania, Poland, Benin, Brazil, among many others.  
General Informational Meeting  
Wednesday, DECEMBER 2, 1998  
Time and Place TBA.  

Applications for the Institute for Developing Education are available November 30, and applications/or the Internship Program are available December 7, both in the Council office at L-058 CoBA. 

Thursday, Thanksgiving Day Breakfast -8:00 -9:30 a.m. Thanksgiving Day Buffet -12:00 noon -3:30 p.m. 
Friday and Saturday, 11/27-28 Brunch -11:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. Dinner -4:30 p.m. -6:00 p.m. 
Sunday, 11/29 Brunch -11:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. Dinner-4:30 p.m. -7:00 p.m, 

South Dining Hall Food Market . 
CloGes after lunch on Wed., 11/25, and reopens for dinner on Sunday. 11/29. 
Reckers Huddle 
Wed., 11/25 -open until 10 p.m. Wed., 11/25 -7:30 a.m -5:00 p.m. Thurs., 11/26 -closed Thurs., Fri., Sat., 11/26-28 -closed Fri., 11/27 -9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m, Sun., 11/29 -HuddleMart Convenience Sat., 11/28 -9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. Store open -6:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. Sun., 11/29 -9:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. Mon., 11/30 -7:00 a.m. -24 hours 
HAPPY 21st BIRTHDAY COLLEEN Our Teenie Babe is all grown-up! 

Love, Mom, Kevin, Catherine, Erin, Dave & Michael 
Associated Press 
KIEV 
The killer struck at ni){ht on Dec.24.1995, bursting into the secluded home of tlw ZaichAnko l'amilv. Soon, the forester, his wife and two small 
sons were dead, shot from  a  
rifle.  
Their killer escaped wi1h  a  

pair of wedding rings, a small golden cross on a chain, ear­rings and a bundle of worn clothes. Thflir house in Garmarnia, a village in central Ukraine, was set ablaze, mark­ing the start of a bloody trail that terrorized the country for four months. 
The trail would eventually end with the arrest of Anatoly Onoprienko, a forester and sailor who confessed to the killings. On Monday, the man accused of being Ukraine's worst serial killer goes on trial. charged with 52 counts of mur­der. 
"I look at it very simply. As an animal. I watched all this as an animal would stare at a sheep," Onoprienko said of the slaughter in a videotaped 1997 police interview obtained by The Associated Press. 
The charges against Onoprienko chart a remarkable rampage that first drew public attention with the Zaichenko slayings. 
Other killings soon followed. On the night of Dec. 30, 1995, an attacker shot dead a hus­band and wife and the wife's twin sisters. 
Once again, the killer took gold jewelry, two passports and an old jacket, setting fire to the house and leaving no traces. 
Then seven people were slaughtered. A family of five was slain and two others killed on a nearby road. A family or four, including two children, was butchered on Jan. 30. 
In western Ukraine, no vil­lager ventured outside after dark. Huddled in their houses, they listened to the whispers of 
¦ UKRAINE 
Serial killer charged in 52 murders goes to trial 
the night as police patrollnd desertod streets. 
Authorities launchPd a nationwide manhunt l'or the killer, who lefl few clues and no live witnesses. 
The kilhir continued to nlude police, killing another 14 peo­ple in f'our attacks botwoon Fob. 21 and March 22, 1996. 
But the net was tightnning. 
Police found the owner of the rifle, who said the weapon was stolen from him. Authorities compiled a list of' the man's acquaintances. 
In the Lviv region. a report pointed to a man traveling in the region bntween visits to his girlfriend in Yavoriv. near the Polish border. 
On April 14, armnd officers followed the woman into her apartment and found the man, with a sawed-off hunting rifle insidH a briefcase. 
In less than four months, Onoprienko. 36 at the time of his arrest, had allegedly killed 40 people, including 10 chil­dren. 
Confronted with evidence found hidden at the homes or his lover and his brother, Onopricnko conf'essed -not only to those 40 deaths, but to those of 12 people in 1989, authorities say. 
In the former Soviet Union, the rampage is matched only by that of' Andrei Chikatilo con­victed and executed in 1994 for killing and mutilating 52 women and children in neighboring Hussia over a 12­year period. 
The admitted killer has said he feels himself to be a robot, driven for years by a dark force, and argued he should not bn tried until authorities deter­mine the source of this force. 
With a thin face, gray eyes and receding reddish hair, Onoprienko rambles endlessly about the CIA and Interpol, unknown powers and future revelations. Psychiatrists, how­ever. have rulnd him fit to stand trial. 



page 8 

VIEWPOINT 

THE OBSERVER 
NmRL DAME 0fflCE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 S,m,T M,\KY's OrnCE: 309 H.1ggar, Notre Dame, !:sf 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
Eorrn1<-IN-CH1n 

Hr.:arher Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bria11 Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsslSTANT MANAc;ING EDITOR Hcarher MacKenzie 

NEWS EDlmR ·-· ....-............... Michelle Krupa ADYERTISll'iG MANAGER.........•..........•.•..Bryan Lurz VIEWPOINT EOJTOR ·-· -..........Eduardo Uni! An DESIGN MANAGER ........................Bmt Huclat SPORTS l'DfTO!l ..... ·---· .. _Karhken lope, SYSTEMS MANAGER.. ....Michael flrouiller 
Sen,£ EmTORS.. ... .. ........... Sarah Dyl,g CO~'TROU.ER.. .. .. .. ... .... .. .. Dave R.ogcro 
Kristi Klirsch W'EB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EunoR .......;vi. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................P«e Cildla PHOTO Emroa ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The: Observer is lhe 1nJepl.'.ndcm ncwspapi:-r publish«! by thr.: nudr.:nu of the U11iwcyily qfNotn: Diu11<:" du la~ a11d Saim fvfary's Collcg,r.:, It d~)CS 110( ni;;;;c..-..\arily reflect (ht: pdicics of rhc :idmini:maciun (lf either insticution. 171e news is ri.:porn:J ~ ac.:c.uraidy w1d \}bjeccive!y as pussibk. Unsign-ed cdiwri;tls ri:prescnt rhe opinion of the majority of rhe . f,,.iitm~in~Chief, Minaslns Editor, As..,isrn.m Mnnaging Ediror ~md department editor~. Commrnt:iric,, kttns ,rnd cli-lumtH, present the..· vicw!i o( the-authors, .rnd not neC:e'i1mrily those of"The Observer. \'iewpoior space is :1v:iilah!.e ro .ill membc1s of rhc Notre D.1.mc-lSaint \4;[ry',; c.:,mmuniry and rn all readers. The fu!e expre.e:sion or varying opinitins 
rhmllgh lerter, is encm1ragcd 

Contaqjng The Observer 
Editor·in•Chicf  631-4542  Bu,incss Office  631-5313  
Managing Ediwr/A.s.,isra.nr l\..JE  631~4541  Ad\/ertisi11g  G31-G90018840  
NC'\vs/Photo Spares Scene  631-5323 631-4543 631-4540  Svstcms F'..x Viewpninr E-Mail  631-8839 G3l-G927 Vrl'Wroinr. I@nd.edu  
Saint Mary·s  631-4324  Ad E-Mail  ohs~iver@d:1rv:in.cc.nd.edu  
Oa\' Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  News E-Mail  observer.obsnew!t.1@nd.edu  
Office M:1n:iger/Genernl fnformarion  63P47 1  



The World Population Crisis 
With current socio-demographic statis­tics, it is no longer possible to deny the truth about the world's population prob­lem. Starting around the year 1968, our world has been engaged in a steady demographic decline, seen most especial­ly in the Western nations, and particular­ly in Europe. Fifty-one countries currently 
Aaron 
Kheriaty 
are not replacing their populations. In 
short, our world is experiencing a serious 
population problem -an under popula­
tion problem. 
Where is the proof for these trends coming from? One source is the Population Division of the United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs. This body convened a meeting of 14 world renowned experts in 1997 to studv the effects and foreseeable conse­quences of the worldwide decline in fertil­ity. The conclusions of the council con­firmed the demographic data, and noted that the demographic decline is spreading from the West into other developing nations, such as Eastern Europe, Asia, and the Caribbean. 
But these findings seem to run contrary to received conventional wisdom. The reigning dogma in academia and the media continues to predict "exponential," 

;-or "galloping," demographic growth, cul­minating in what some have called the "demographic time bomb." However, as evinced by their actions in 1997, even some agencies of the ul\i are beginning to recognize the truth regarding the world's demographic situation, and rejecting the 
alarmist overpopulation scare. At the beginning of this century, the population predictions made by Malthus 

were indeed apocalyptic. He predicted only linear growth in food production, coupled with exponential growth in popu­lation. Manv social scientists still refer to Malthus' curves when warning of the dangers of fertility trends. The only prob­lem is, the Malthus curves have been proven wrong simply by the fact that what he predicted would happen this cen­tury did not in fact obtain. History has proven him wrong; his predictions did not come about, yet his influence remains in the way we still 
think and talk -------------~ less, and free about world operation for population. themselves" (N. The United Bonnet, Le 
States, in our Monde, Jan 2, foreign policy, 1998). still operates Similar steril­
on this para­ization cam­digm. The for­paigns are eign aid given being carried bv the U.S. to out all over the third world world. It is countries obvious that alwavs comes the policies our with ·strings country is attached, in the exporting are a form of com­direct violation pulsory mea­of fundamental sures of fertility . human rights.
,1.,w.rHir·i It is even more

control, includ­ing resources disturbing due to procure to the fact that abortions. Our these ideologi­aid for develop­cal programs ing countries is are premised usually granted """'"-~~=-=--="--~===-'-----------' on fabricated 
only on the condition that these countries establish population control methods that include forced sterilizations, or steriliza­tions performed without informed con­sent. 
Take, for example, a sterilization cam­paign carried out last year in Peru. Public health care personnel put pressures on illiterate women to have an unexplained "operation," which was actually a steril­ization performed in less than sterile clin­ical conditions. Because of the lack of spastics and fallacious data. 
The' population decline of the Western nations will bring about adverse conse­quences for the economic and sociological infrastructures of these countries. We already see the age pyramid becoming reversed, with older, retired members of society making up a much higher per­centage of the population. While requir­ing more health care and providing less work, these members will be increasingly viewed as a burden on society, making basic hygiene, these procedures resulted in a number of deaths. The newspaper El Comercio reported that in the poorest parts of the country, the women submit­ted to sterilization in exchange for food and care for their younger children. Those carrying out the operations had monthly quotas to respect, which explains why, near the end of the month. the employees were eager to encourage Quechua women to go to the dispensary for "the vaccination for their baby and for 
a small, pain­the temptation to euthanasia much greater. In order to provide for the eco­nomic burden of an elderly population, the temptation to cut from education and the training of new generations poses a considerable difficulty. Wealthy countries will find it increasingly difficult to limit immigration from poorer countries, whose age pyramid will be the reverse. Finally, the psychological profile of the declining countries will become increas­ingly "morose," with a lack of intellectual, social, and cultural dynamism and cre­ativity, which some see already at work in "aged" countries. 

This year's Nobel Prize winner in eco­nomics was awarded the prize for his work detailing how every instance of star­vation in the past century has been due not to a lack of food. but to the unjust withholding of resources by a corrupt government. The plight of the world's poor is due not to a lack of resources brought about by overpopulation, but by a lack of generosity, and the abuse of power by communists and corrupt mili­tary regimes. 
To combat this pessimism and fear with optimism and hope. we must embrace the truth about the state of the world's popu­lation. The proponents of the population scare see new people as potential prob­lems, we must see them as potential problem solvers, as invaluable resources for the betterment of society. The Malthusian policies of the United States and other Western countries are not premised upon statistics and sound eco­nomic analysis, but upon selfishness and greed. lt is urgent that public opinion be formed by the real facts regarding popu­lation trends, and that we oppose the unjust abuses of human rights propound­ed by a culture of death. 
Aaron Kheriaty is a senior preprofes­sional studies and philosophy major. His column appears every other Monday. 
71ze views expressed in this column are tho.c;e ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ O.uou: OF THE DAY 
,flike my sugar with cof. fee and cream.' 
-Beastie Boys, 
Intergalactic 

¦ DtHJNf:SBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 


..........
~­
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 22, 1998 --------------os~fRVER 


¦ A GRAIN Of WHEAT
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
The Nonviolent Roots of
Thank you to the 
Student Body for 'Magic' 
the Anti-Abortion 

Nutro DarM Studunt B()dy: • On bllhalf of our ontiro fiiotbn.11 tonm and 1mnching staff I would like, to thank you for your trenrnndous support this year. Your enthusiasm and spirit' ha.vt1 
Movement 

allnwmi us to on<'e agnin return the "magic" to Notre Dame Stadium. 
On Octobf'r 23, 1998. a bullet from the has been dubb,id tho "Fath,~r of lfosClm."
Bm:auso of lho home lield advantage you helped create, we wore able to win gun of a sniper pierced the chest of Barnett In the 1980's rescues became popularSllVt~ral close games this ymt.r and go undefeated in Notre Dame Stadium for the Slepian, who had just returned home with among the emerging evangelical Protestantfirst tim(! since I<)89. All of you cun b,• proud of the fact that we currently have his family from synagogue. He died two pro-life activists, especially Randall Tnrry, u nine game winning strnak at home. 
hours later. Slepian was an abortionist, the who founded Operation Hescuc (OH). OH'sAs you know we still have some business to take care of on the west coast third to be rnurdernd. tactics were morn aggressive and mm,sagnswith USC. Even if you can't make the trip to the LosAngeles Colis~JUm, we know more harsh (e.g.. OR's curre1nt director,Urn h11st studrmt body in tho country will b(:l supporting us. Thanks again! 
Flip Bonham, has rnfused to condnmn (or

'. 
condone) the murder or Slcpian) than thosoSincerely, or the pnacc activists from the 1960's. And

Bob Davie 
Maureen 
lamentably, they came to dominate the

Sunda)', November 22, 199!1 
pro-life civil disobedience movement and received the media's attention. They over­pow1m1d the voice of the pro-life Catholic 

Kramlich 

'Zoot Suit Riots' Nothing to Joke About 
I wriln this letter not to accuse anybody of racism but merely to make people awarn ofwhat they're sayi11g. I write in reference to the University band's introduc­tion lo their rendition ol' tlw popular song, "Zool Suit Riot." As the announcer dcscribnd tlw era. he ,mcouragcd us to "get ready for a zoot suit riot" or something Lo llml effact, I can't nxactly remember what he said. And the crowd cheered. I couldn't hnlp but foel a chill run through me. 
We might as well have said let's get ready lo beat up some Mexicans because that's exac:Uy what the Zoot Suit Riots worn all about. I am fully aware that NEITHElt thfl unnouncer or tlw band meant this in any way. I bring this up only because I'm tirPd of seeing this era brought up as a fad without anybody taking the time to make otlwrs aware of what really happened. 
During the weekend of June 3, 1943, several servicemen claimed they were attac·ked by a gang of Mexican pachur.os (the zoot suiters). As a response, over 200 servicmucn took cabs into the heart of the Mexican-American community of East Los Angeles. Their mission was to assault anyone wearing a zoot suit. The majority of them were Mnxican-Anrnrican but tho violonce involved other minorities as well. For tlm rwxt snvernl days, the mob of servicemen broke into bars and theaters in search of tlwse zoot suiters. They stripped them of their clothing and beat them up. According lo Hudy /\cwia's "Occupied America," "Police arrested over 600 Chicano youths without cause and labeled the arrests 'preventive' action. Angelenos cheered on thi• servicemen and tlrnir civilian allies." You see, the papers praised the service­men as heroes for finally doing something to stop the "Mexican Crime Wave.'' It wasn·t until ,lune 7th that the top military ol1icials ended the riots (something the Los Anl-{t!les cily officials would not do) by placing Los Angeles off-limits to military per­sonnel. 
Why did this happen'! This country found itself in a dangerous state of xenophobia. What happened with the Japanese concentration camps? Mexican-Americans were just anotlwr easy scap1igoat. Why don't people know about this? Because they don't t1mrh us history in our schools that make the US or the military look bad. H took this country quitu some timn bnl'ore it wm1ld admit to the Japanese concentration camps and it's going to take just as long for people to learn about this. 
Again, 1rcitcrato that I am not throwing out cries of racism or any such matter. 1 nwrdy want to encourng11 others to learn about the fads they're following and to search for thn real truth. 
Some may say I'm overreacting. You may ask yourself, "How is that like saying. 'Let's beat up Mmdcuns'?'" Well, if them worn a popular song titled "Lynchings," would \V(' say. ''l,pfs gtit rondy for some lynchings"? No, because enough people am awarn uf thll history b,ihind lynchings and 1.hat it would rightfully offend some peo­phi. I low can I equate lynchings with riol-;'? Not to answer the obvious, but they're hoth instancns of oxlrmno violence and neither arc much to joke about. 
Rudy Monterrosa 
lst Year Law Swdcnr Sunday, Nov~mber 22, 1998 
In the wake or Slepiun's murder, Attorney General Janot Reno announced that she would establish the National Clinic Violence Task Force to determine whether there is a conspiracy of anti-abortion vio­lence. This is the second time that Hcno has created such a task force. The first, begun in 1994, concluded after two years of' investigation that there was not a crimi­nal plot against abortion clinics. The acts of violence committed against abortion clinics were the acts of loners. 
Violence committed against abortion providers and clinics is· abhorrent. (Third year law student, Jim McCarthy. nota bene): It contradicts the fundamental prin­ciple to which pro-lifers are committed: human beings do not lose their dignity because they are unwanted, economic bur­dens, disabled, terminally,ill, undesirable, or guilty. As a wise Polish man once said. "Not even a murderer loses his personal dignity." 
And violence against abortion clinics runs counter to the foundation of an activist movement that has its roots in the peace and justice movements of the Catholic left. (That's correct. Catholic LEFT.) The first core of pro-life activists were drawn from the peace, civil rights, anti-nuclear and farm-workers move­ments. On the view of these activists, the abortion industry was as destructive the Pentagon. Abortion clinics were compared to nuclear bombs: weapons of mass destruction. These activists considered the right to life a matter of civil rights for unborn children. And many of them who were feminists considered society's resort to abortion as a solution to unplanned pregnancies an injustice committed against women. 
It was natural for these first pro-life activists to adopt the tactics of civil disobe­dience used by the other movements to which they belonged. And so, on August 2, 1975, six pro-life women held the first sit­in at an abortion clinic in Rockville, Maryland, blocking the door to tho room where abortions were performed. According to Charles Fager, a Quaker peace activist afliliated with this group of activists, the thought was let violence be visited on me, not the unborn. The activists were convicted of criminal trespass. The sit-in went unnoticed and was unsuccessful and some of these first activists dropped out of the movement. The pro-life civil dis­obedience movement almost ended as quickly as it began. But the charisma. intel­ligence and passion of John Cavanaugh­O'Keefe (surnames don't get more Irish than this) sustained the movement. 
A Harvard educated, Charismatic Catholic, steep(1d in the thought ofThomas Merton. Cavanaugh-O'Keef'e organized coalitions ofyoung pAace activists in the late 1970's to hold sit-ins at abortion clin­ics. He founded the Pro-Life Non-Violent Project. He published a widely circulated pamphlet called. "A Peaceful Presence," and gave talks that moved college students to participate in civil disobedience outside abortion clinics. These sit-ins came to be called, "rescues" and Cavanaugh-O'Keefe loft. 
In tho oarly 1990's tho civil disobrnfinnce 
at abortion clinics was tmnpernd by the 
passage of the Frendom to Accm,s Clinic 
Entrances (FACE), which makns it a l'cdoral 
crime to non-violently obstruct thn 
entrance to an abortion clinic. Under 
FACE, a peaceful protestor can receive a 
$10,000 fine and a six month prison term. 
Several months aftnr Um passage of 
FACE, I had the opportunity to hear 
Cavanaugh-O'Keefe, who continues to trav­
el to college campuses to speak to pro-lifn 
activists, deliver one of his talks about non­
violence. His message rmnains thn same. 
"There are only two options to end abor­
tion: war or a campaign of non-violnnce. 
The question before us is whethnr killing 
will harden our hearts or whether death 
will soften our hearts. What is powerful is, 
not when we are prepared to kill. but when 
we are pmpared to die." 
He encourages activists to study. "Study, 
study, study other non-violent movemnnts." 
He urges them to study read Gandhi and 
King and to study the Polish Solidarity 
Movement. 
"The route to freedom from a massive 
social evil is solidarity with the victims of 
the evil. The simplest form, but not thn only 
form. ofsolidarity with unborn children 
and with pregnant women who face death 
and exploitation is a rescue." 
He asks the members of his audience to 
take a pledge of nonviolence: "In the midst 
of bloodshed, I choose life. In the midst of 
violence, I choose non-violence. God my 
Father, IolTer you my life. Make me a 
channel of your peace." 
The message is radical. But it is not any 
more radical than the Gospel. 
This summer I had the pleasum of visit­
ing with Cavanaugh-O'Keefo, at his home 
outside Washington. D.C.. in suburban 
Maryland where he lives with his wife and 
six children. We discussed at length a 
recently published book about him and the 
activist side of pro-lif'e movemnnl. At Urn 
end of this book the author claims. "The 
violence of the 1990's declared the end of 
anti-abortion activism as a significant polit­
ical and cultural force in American soci­
ety." Cavanaugh-O'Keefe and I were both 
stunned by the author's claim but also cog­
nizant of some of the truth in it. 
Perhaps it is time for something of a 
revival. 
Maureen Kramlich is a "Double Domer" a member ofthe University ofNotre Dame Class of 1997 and the Notre Dame Law School Class of2000. She highly recom­mends a peace studies course that is being offered next semester. It is called Non­Violent Social Change. The course number is IIPS 466 and the DART call number is 3498. The professor is David Cortright. The course examines not only t.he theory of non-violence but also practical matters: 
Jund-raising techniques, how to work with 
the media and how to organize el'ents. She 
also highly recommends Cortright's book, 
"Peaceworks. "Her email address is mau­
reen.kramlich. l@nd.edu and website 
address is www.nd.edu/-mkramlic. 
The ziiews expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Obsemer. 

----------------:~­
---------------Monday, November 23, 1998
page 10 0BStRVER 

Smith and co. have no enemies 

Smith,) an aspiring young attorney, who has the annoying char­acter flaw of "foot in 
"Enemy of the State" 
Director: Tony Scott 

mouth" syndrome. He plays the unwitting
Scarring: Will Smith, Gene Hackman, Jon Voight 
pawn in an effort to
and Regina King 

expose the actions of Reynolds (Jon Voight). a National Security Administration chief who enjoys strong-arm­ing and killing uncoop­erative Congressmen in 

(Out of five shamrocks) 

his spare time. One problem: some­
body videotaped one of By JOEY LENlSKI these "negoti atious" Scene Movie C,iric and slipped the tape to Dean, who goes glossy-eyed through most of the "It's not paranoia if they're really movie wondering innocently why he after vou." is being brought up on charges of The government is everywhere, corruption, accused of having affairs watching and listening to us. They and shot at by mysterious groups of 
have the ability to intercept our cel­agents with spiked hair. 
lular phone calls, place microtrans­Enter the enigmatic Brill (Gene miUers into the fabric of our clothing Hackman), a shady character who to track us down and even use secret seems to want to he!µ Dean, but acts security satellites to pinpoint a single like he would rather drop him off the person. No suspicious action, word or top of a building. Without revealing 
glance goes unnoticed when the eye plot details, be assured that the story in the sky is activated, because "big unfolds like a maddening maze, brother" is always watching. where the next twist seems as appro­Although this may sound frlghten­priate as any other choice, since the i n gly similar to a statement from audience really has no idea where all the pieces fit together 
until the last 10 minutes of screen time. 
On the sur­face, this movie typi­fi.es what a thrill-seeker would expect from Jerry Bruckheimer and director Tony Scott, who first col­laborated on 
the classic Photo courtesy of Buena Vislal "To p Gu n " Lisa Bonet and Will Smith in "Enemy of the State." and later on 
the ultra-Residence Life about student activi­intense submarine flick "Crimson ties during home football games, it is Tide." It comes replete with flashy actually the in-your-face message of gun-fights, visually exciting chase "Enemy of The State." scenes (which dominate probably half The plot (and the govern­of the film's playing time) and of ment) follows Robert Dean (Will course, big crashes and loud explo-
PBS documentary explores historyofthe Internet 


ays: 
H:e should krioj. Though he was born NEW YORK. Mark Stephen$; his alter ego• Bob 
You might Ctingely is r · ized as a wii,ed-in think you have author, TV ality and w~ Iy stumbled on f.l.n q:r9-tst; QJl BS. yVeJ:r $L .·. . . , a1u','.aiil.} w~tlU ks•to him revolution•t">heing wrten.an in-joke Jcleviscd. ..·..•··· .·. . .•.· . inhabits the And he wants you to knowihat, very title of this despite an occ.asional inside joke, the Mw film about .ltiternet is long past being Jus(for the Internet, ii;isiders, thos•e·"•geeks and .r1erds,r'a$ 
Airing on PBS \<,~tlp'~'y: ~a,y§;. «~ltp,J~.:,g;91r~t~b~h:
Photo oourtaey Qf PBS 

Wednesday at. 8 . :dtmt, mventf;ld it.< making bdlions and 
Robert X. Cringely n.nb EST. the ·b·tli · fd 1·1 ·· ···1· th " . 
l' r ·ons o · o ars.a ong ·. e way..····•·
hosts "Nerds 2.0.1." 

documentary is ·. The six StanJorcLUniversity graduates called "Nerds who started a Web media company 
2.0.1: A Brief History of the Internet." A now known as .t:xdte are among th(:lSe sequel to "Triumph ofthe Nerds; a "nerds." Whe.n)n.!erviewed in }994, 1996 hhitory of the pcrs()nal computer,· thpse digita[fr9l'lttersU1e~ werit,.york­"Nerds 2.0:1•· hears thflnumerical des~ trig out ofa :gar}ig~ and living ori J'.llird­ignation for updated software. But . tos. Three years·,later, Cringely revisits rather than go with 2.0. the 2.0.1 certi· · them ~ their company is doing just fins this "update" is properly debugged. fine, with the lads worth more .than 
Get it? Well, you should get just about $'.1,00 million apiece. everything else in thi.s breezy,facHilled .•. Cri11gely,.po,hiJs out that. ··,ww'' survey, even ff you tb.ink JA,YA can. ho···•· (l.q.d~esses •n•Q'Vl{'a~orn almpst,;;_eyel"y ordered at Starbucks a:r(d that ymr '.N)(fsehdld.pl'p~l(ctlabel and 'fV':c~m­
learn computer protocol from Miss m:ereial. You can ()rder a book online sions. Scott has a signature style for ment hierarchy. Ilowever, most of choreographing action sequences and this is accomplished through the emphasizing setting appearance, action sequences and not the plot. resulting in scenes which not only Them arc so many monitoring tools proceed at breakneck pace but look and subversive techniques employed visually attractive. So even when the c h a s e scenes in this movie become old and run-of-the­mi II for the brain, the eyes can still appreciate how the shot is filmed. 

As id e from the Photo courtesy of Buena Vista e x p e r t Will Smith (left) stars in "Enemy of the State." 
handling of action, the acting in this movie really by the government agents in this film makes this film entertaining. The that it sparks a genuine fear in each cast comprises of an ensemble of audience member, causing them to young, talented actors such as Jason ask themselves, "Can they really do Lee (Brody in "Mallrats"), Seth Green that?" (Dr. Evil's son) and Jake Busey I do not know for sure what our ("Starship Troopers"), and a core of government is capable of, but the fine veterans (Smith, Hackman, and next time I discuss communism in Voight), who dominate the screen class, speak of shadow government time with their presence. Will Smith wrong-doings or toss a marshmallow has come a long way from the realm through the cold air in the student of acting mediocrity, acting with such matu­rity and feeling that after seeing him on 
·screen it is difficult to believe that this same person was the Fresh Prince of Bel-air only a few years ago. 
T h e 

, • . . f'poto courtesy of Buena Vista 
m o v 1 e Will Smith and Gene Hackman tn "Enemy of the State.' does a fairly good job of establishing a sense of para­section, I will be looking back over noia, which comes with being pur­my shoulder, wondering just who saw sued by top agencies in the govern-what I did. 
io access ~hy piece of iniormation
fom any computer anywhere. And who "Kat'' introduced "www.blahblah.com" ­en ta~~§.tYOJl. back, ev.en . speak. 
tion, ·· the. Soviet But like a good meal in a fine restau­the ,sp fant,.what rea:llr put the Web over.was Jy$; ·· I>fesentatiqn; This tooka gjant leap 
; ....... < ....... >i ·.·.. ·· • ..·· •.... Jo\ "th the arrival of the so-called brows-Preside,~ Eiseriho . > . creating the er. Adva11c.eci Research. Pr,oJ¢cts Agency, Instead of humdrum lines of text, 
charged with nurturing high-tech pro-what you saw on the screen was "an jecl:$ ofaUkinds, . < attractive, easy-to-use shop window," One oftllpsr pr()j~~~~ ~ould be the (;ringely says-"a gateway to the rich­
•· AR .Qtigitral!Y~~tJ:qtjustto.Unk'. es pfthe Internet." AH.Pt .· · comput!:3iS'i . · The browset was the creation of a 
"Theliitertiet Wa$' f9µnded right in new life form in a computer biosphere this room," says Cringely in a grand first populated by nerds and suits, as "Nerds" moment, alt the grander for Cringely observed during a visit to the gra.fa.nonymity of. this Pentagon Manhattan last week. Call this new­chamhf:r,Wher~Jt au.... ?, CQlller the .styUst .. Tbeµ.)f!J~J2; a .io," .. pfyears after'. ••·• i ''The World .Wide Web is the first 
·the ·ARP:Anelhad n,,etworked main-·high•tech medium that has an aesthetic frame C.tnpnters acros.stne nation, the component." Cringely said. "For the unanticipated "killer application" first time, the business people and tech­emerged, Today it remains the favorite nical people have come to value aes­use for,the Interne.t -e-mail. And thetics. Cringely lntrodu~,9.)'0U to Ray "For most ofthe history of the com­
. Tom]f r;·Jfs u~a~.~'~:tnjng mastet-puter industry1 you were considered a mfod, htistowed stardori1 on the "at .. grd if' you were capable of using some· symbol'1 as his way to punttuate each thing that was hard to use. But if a Web · e-mail address. · · site isn't easy to use, fast-loading, and. 
There is much more to •~Nerds 2.0.1." beyond all that, attractive, people won't Tt travels fo the 1980s an,Hhe network-go to it. ing of thqs@ co?.I t1ewfq~... . . ''Inclusion, not exclusion, is the rule 
The we•·l990s>CQ.F9e~ the World· ":q'OW/ he decl11fed. Cringe}y. and his 
•Wide .....· .'You.;m~~tTim':.~erners•L.et\: $~ecia1 willrnake you all the more 
whom ·you can thankfor conjuring a eager to log on. 


IRISH INSIDER 
O 
THE 
Monday, November 23, 1998 BSERVER 


Tying up the Tigers 

By ANTHONY BIANCO 
A"isLllH Spores Fditor 
Tlw Irish wo11 ttwir ninth garnn of the sPason. onrn again playing just wnl! 1\nough to scrupn hy. This time around, th<> Irish t.unwd a lwo-t.oud1dnwn ddkit into a go!d(•ll fi11ish as Notre Danw corn­plPtPd ils lirst. uncl.-fcatnd honw s1mson sinrn IIJ81J. 
In OIH: or tlw wildest g«mcs or tlw sna­Sllll, Notn• Danw anti I.SU eombinnd for SPV('Hty-fivp points, tht! most sincn T,,xas and Notn• Dmrn• lmUlml to ,t 5:;-27 Irish win in l 4J():i. Notro llaml' also rPlicd on lirwlmd:l'rs !.amont Bryant and Bobbie 1loward Lo rPturn a furnlllt• and a intnr­1·Pptio11, rPs1w1·1iv1!ly, back for to11ch­dow11s. 
No matlrir how dil'f'Prnnt th11 plays t.unwcl out. tlrn Irish 011c1' again playnd tlwir way to virtmy. 
"This is llw gn•at1•st way to go out I rnulcl l'VPr think of," said senior Mike Hos1•111lml on llH' Irish conrnback in his last ganH' in Notn• Damn Stadium. "To ('Ollll' back l'rom lwo touchdowns and lay il all on tlw li1w to lrnvP this placP a vic­1.or. This was just a great win." 
.larious .Jackson had anothnr carner­lll'sl ganH~ as lw passPd for 276 yards and h•d lhP Irish sPcond hall' conwback with two touc!Hlow11s lo 1:dge Louisiana Stall' ] 1)-J(J. But tlw day began and i•1HfPCI f'ar f'rom tlw way H dnvelopnd f'or llw Irish signal-r,alh\r. 
I !is first pass ill tlw op,ming drivn was intPrcPptnd by '.Vtark Homan and n\lunwd 5] yards to giwi LSU Hie narly l!!ad. Tlw Tigl'l's built. that into a touch­down lead by thn half' and 14 points by rlu• third quarwr bl'f'orl' Notrn Dame d1ippPd awny in tlw dosing minutes to Lak!\ its only lnad of tlw gamo with I :27 left lo play. 
l•:v,•n worsP l'or tlw Irish was .Jackson's Jina! play, in which lw injurnd his right k1wP 011 an i11tPntio11al sat'oly play with just s1\1·01Hls n•rnaining in tlin game. I!Pad coach Bob Davie callnd for the play to kPPfl I.SU from having a chanco to bn•ak Notn' IJame's six-point lead with a i·!i,sing driVP. 
But ill taking as much time off' tlrn do!'k as possiblP, .Jackson also ended up with an injury that is expected lo keep him out of tlw snason [inaln al Soullrnrn 
( :alifornia. 
"I fo1il so bad for .larious as a pnrson," said llavi11. "Tim team is a little upsnt. l!is injury lakPs sonwthing out of the vic­tory. But s,~tbacks am something you lighl. through." 
Notrn Dmne was lighting LSU's Kevin Faulk most ol' llrn day in a game in 
which he becamn one of' thn Tigers' best The Observer/John Daily 
Autry Denson greets Raki Nelson on the sidelines after he caught the game-winning touchtown on a 10-yard pass from Jarious Jackson 
all-tinw ruslwrs. !lo broke school 
to put the Irish ahead 39-34 with 1 :27 left in the game. 
nicor<ls for most rushing touchdowns with 45. most total touchdowns with 52, Bryant returned the fumble for a 13-touchdown in all 10 games this season. The Irish pulled to within a touchdown 
and most points scored with 312. The 
yard touchdown. After an interception by A'Jani as Malcolm Johnson pulled down a 
sr\nior's li1w play in a game and a scuson 
Arter the Roman interception to start Sanders on a Herb Tyler pass to set up Jackson 8-yard pass t.o close out scoringthat lrnv,i failod to go LSU's way has not 
the gamo, Notre Damn handed the ball Donson's run, the Tigers went to tho air for the third quarter. lak1~11 away from his intensity. said Tiger 
Lo Autry Denson f'or 18 yards on three to control most of the quarter. LSU The Tigers opened up thn f'ourth with hnad co1t\'.h (;nrry DiNardo. 
carries while .Jackson threw his first of marched 68 yards in four plays to give a drive that brought them from their "Faulk has competPd hard 1•very 
13 complntions to Bobby Brown for 44 them a 27-20 lead. Tyler connected with own 21-yard line to Notre Dame's 17 game," he said. "llc1 dcciclnd to come 
vards. Freshman split end David Givens split end Abram Booty on three recep­where it looked like they would open the hack this y1•ar, and things havnn't gone 
r,apped off the drive f'or Notre Dame's tions, including the touchdown, for 77 game up and take a two-touchdown thn way w1• would lrnvP likml." 
lirsl score, taking the option pitch from yards. lead. But Tyler's pass was picked off by1-'.vPn in a game in which Faulk scored 
.lackson down the sideline for a 22-yard "I don't think they did anything differ­Bobbie Howard. Thn linebacker 
two touchdowns and lwcanrn one of 
touchdown rush. ent," said Booty. We threw deeper returned the ball 89 yards for a touch­l.Sll's lrnst rushnrs, his tumovor in tl11\ 
D1mson rushed for a total of 80 yards, routes, we wanted to get behind and we down, but Jim Sanson's miss on tho con­
s<•co111I kPpt NoLrn lhmw within striking 
his least since rushing !'or 62 at connC'cted." version attempt left the Irish trailing by
t!istalln\. /\ hit by Dnk1• Coop!'r 011 tlw 
Mir.higa11 Stale. Even wilh his limited Booty and Tyler connected for another one point.
Tig1\rs' sncond drive of' the quarter performance, Denson rushed for a three­touchdown a little mc,re than two min­Danny Boyd missed a 42-yard filod 
jarred i!H\ ball rrne for fineharkPr 
yard touchdown to open tlrn second half. utes later after Roman caused Tony goal on LSU's next possession and 
Lamont Bryant to got a handlo on. 
The rush gave the senior at least one Driver to drop the ensuing kickoff. 
sec GAME/ page 2 

PLAYER OF THE GAME Q!)OTE OF THE GAME STAT OF THE GAME 
Jackson went 8-f'or-10 on third-down
Jackson had an outstanding 

"This is thP. greatest way to go out I could ever 
conversions, proving once again that coming

think. of. To come back from two touchdowns 
p<1rfor111ance, passing for 277 yards 
down and lay it all on the line to leave this place a 
through in the clutch is the key to a
and rushing for 80 more. 

victor. This was just a great win." 
come-from-behind victory.

-Mike Rosenthal 
page 2 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER 
Action Jackson down for the count 

By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Pour weeks. 
Those two words sent shivers down the spines of every Irish fan across the nation, when the early prognosis on Jarious Jackson's knee revRaled that the senior quarterback will proba­bly miss that amount of time. 
"Everyone's kind of down, but hopefully he'll return," safety Tony Driver said. "Jariuus has bl~en a great quarterback and a great leader." 
"Jarious and I are best friends off the field and to see him go down hurt my heart more than anything," senior split end Bobby Brown said. "I ran up to him and made sure he was okay, first of all emotionally and physically he'll be okay. Jariorn, is a fighter. He'll be back." 
The question is when. No one would get too specific about the injury. 
"It's a knee injury; I'm not going to go any further than that,'' Davie said. "It's probably four weeks or so. H's very simi­lar to Jerry Wisne's." 
The in.fury occurred on a strange play with less than 10 seconds remaining in the game. Notre Dame was trying to run out the clock. as Jackson took a knee on the first three plays. 
"The decision was totally mine [to take a kneel," head coach Bob Davie said. "I didn't want to hand the ball off and risk a fum­ble." 
LSU used each of its three timeouts during the series and forced the Irish into a difficult fourth down situation on the 10 yard line with eight seconds on the clock. 
Jackson intended to run out of the back of the end zone and take a safety. but there was a· break down in the blocking scheme and he was blindsided. 
"We wanted Jarious to go to the end line and use as much time as possible and end the game," Davie said. "We didn't execute correctly. We had someone that didn't line up cor­rectly and weren't able to do that. It wasn't so much of the plan as it was the execution of that play." 

"We were instructed to take Ii safety." Brown said. "He got to the back of tho endzone really quick, but a guy came free. He was try­ing to do his best to run out the time. He had planned to step out of the endzone, but the guy caught him right as ho was trying to move and in an awkward position. It's just one of 
those  unfortunate  
things."  
Davie  willingly  

accepted the blame for the poor execution. 
"It's certainly not the players responsibility,·• Davie said. "1 take full responsibility for it. It's one of those things we practir,e all the time. But when you call it in the heat of the battle. it doesn't get executed right. It's unfortunate because we knew on first down how the see· nario would play out. I feel bad because it's about Jarious. Here's a kid that plays his heart 
out running quarter-b 
t ack drdawths anhd choun­
ers an en e urts 

GaIDe 
continued from page 1 
The Observer/John Daily 

Janous Jackson's impressive outing on Saturday was cut short by a knee injurysustained late in the fourth quarter. Jackson is expected to be out for four weeks. 
himself going down there and Rosenthal said. "We have a big taking a safety." challenge next week and one of 
"We were all supposed to slide the younger guys have to step one gap and everybody went up. The running backs have to outside," senior offensive tackle play a great game and take the Mike Rosenthal said. "We knew pressure off of them." going into it that they were "We just have to move for­going to rush him hard. Stuff ward," Davie said. "I told our like that happens. You feel bad football team what we need to for Jarious; he's a great com-· do now is lift those two young petitor." quarterbacks up on our shoul-
The Irish will be hard-pressed ders and carry them to the next to replace Jackson's ability and level. I'm not sure right now if it leadership. Jackson threw for a will be Eric Chappell or Arnaz career-best 276 yards and Battle. In all likelihood we'll scrambled for 80 more. The probably play both of them load now falls to backup quar-against Southern Cal." terbacks Eric Chappell and There is some concern, how­freshman Arnaz Battle, who will ever, about the status of lead the [rish into USC with Batttle's shoulder injury. major bowl implications on the "Right now I don't think I'm line. completely 100 percent, but I 
"It's a hard thing when you feel next Saturday I will be 100 lose someone like Jarious, but percent," Battle said. "I lose a we have to move on" co-captain little ball velocity. My deep balls 
third-down conversions, going eight-for­ten for 186 yards. 
"Today we were basically trying .to do whatever needed to be done to win the game," said Jackson. "LSU was a great are fine. Just coming across my body, I have a little pain there. I feel with a little therapy this week and the great medical staff we have, I'll be ready for the USC game." 
The Irish have confidence in both quarterbacks and feel as if they owe a victory to Jackson. 
"This team understands that he is one of us," Rosenthal said. "He was one of the seniors that came in with us and has been through everything with us. Now it's our time to go out and win one for him." 
"I especially went up to both of them after the game and told them that great players step up in situations like this," Brown said. "More importantly, this is what you come to Notre Dame for -to have the opportunity to be in the spotlight. This is their turn." 
¦ GAME NOTES AND OuoTES 
LSU head coach Gerry Dinardo (Notre Dame '75) is the first alumnus to coach against his alma mater at Notre Dame Stadium since Indiana's Bernie Crimmins lost 2-06 at Notre Dame Starium in 1956. 
Kevin Faulk's second-quarter touchdown run was the 45th rushing touchdown of his career, breaking the LSU career record of 44 set by Dalton Hilliard from 1982-85. 
The'two touchdowns scored by LSU in the third quarter are the first allowed by Notre Dame this season. Entering the game, the Irish allowed only three points in the third quarter, from a field goal against Purdue. 
Kevin Faulk's 88-yard kickoff return for a touchdown was the first by a Notre Dame opponent in 21 since Georgia Tech's Eddie Lee Ivory went 97 yards on Nov. 5, 1977, in the Yellow Jackets' 69-14 loss to the Irish. 
Autry Denson moved into 32nd place on the NCAA career rushing list with 4,246 yards after entering the game 35th. 
Bob Davie: 
"You can see that that was a pretty remark­able football game. I told our players coming into the game that we knew it was a big game. We had a chance to be 9-1 and go undefeated _at home, but the biggest aspect was just to see how much improvement we made since Dec. 
28, in Shreveport. ­
LSU head coach Gerry DiNardo: 
"It's a downer. ft tears your guts out. It's football and it's life. We just have to prepare for Arkansas." 

Monday, November 23, 1998 
GRADING 
THE 
IRlSH 
Quarterbacks: A+ 

What more could one ask or Jarious Jackson? He had a career-high 276 passing yards, two touchdowns and led the team in rushing. The intf;;lrc:;eption early on leaves a mark on an otherwise spot­less performance. 
Running Backs: B 

Denson's 80-yard day was less than average, but when you're the fifth-leading rusher 
. inPivision I, you can expect the other team to concentrate their efforts on. you .. For . this gatne, however/he could rely on a supporting cast like Givens and Spencer to help balance the offense out, if but a little. 
Recievers: A· 

A quarterback's passing sta.ts arc only a,s good as his receivers, and fortunately this unit was near perfect this weekend. Brown and Johnson's routes gave the Tiger secondary fits. 
Offensive Line: C+ 

'f~e rusp.irit were }ess than av.eragl::\ weekend because there was a lack of holes for the backs to run through. This unit allowed only two sacks,but that low number was mostly due to Jackson's speed. 
l)efensive.Lirie:C+ 

· This line worked brutally to stop the run, butto only mar­ginal success. There was a glaring inability to keep any pressure on Tyler, and their rushing defense allowed Kevin Faulk to look like Marshall Faulk. 
Llnebackers: .B+ 

This unit proved to be the second line of defense against Faulk's runs. In this case, they were successful, holding the fourth-ranked NCAA rusher fo just over three yards a carry. 
Defensive Backs: C+ 

It's difficult to give up 256 yards passing and still man­age to get the win. Still, this unit did manage to stop key plays before they even start. 
Special Teams: F+ 

lt's hard to give out an F when a win is the result, but it doesn't get much worse than this. Between the many missed opportunities, the poor play turned into 16-point swing in the Tigers· favor. Still, the plus was added for Williams' blocked extra points. 
Coaching: C 

· Davie's adjustments made in the third quarter caught on quickly, but the defense didn't soom quito as prepared at the start of the game as thr,y should have been, The 
· pI.ayscalling Jp the_ final minute indicates a need for bettP.r time management. 
Overall: 2,69 

A lackluster performance, 
.. ~ut it gets theJob done. The Irish went into t.h~ focused on fl~isMng.. thoir,h9me schedule unde.fei't(ed, -iju.t'the· Tigers were just as •f~ctJSed on get­ting back ,into. bowl con­

tention. ··· 
Jackson took co11trol at Notre Dame's own :~5-vard-line. 
Jackson led Irish drive to give the Irish only their second lead of the game with less than two minutes on the clock. He kept the ball with carries of 14 and 12 yards and completions of 24 and 17 yards before connecting with Raki Nelson for 10 yards for the touchdown. 
Clearly lea.ding the Irish attack, Jackson was especially influential on team today, and luckily in the end we came out with the win. I just try to spark the rest of the team to do what I know they are capable of doing." 

LSU freshman Craig Nall came off the bench to replace an injured Herb Tvler after the Irish took the lead in the flnal minute and a half. Though he completed four attempts for 70 yards, Nall was unable to find the endzone on two dri­ves. 

r-ca•----1111'11-IIC!!DaRl!!__.__,..,,._l!III._ llll"IIPIIWW_ _..___,_.__,_____
__IIF_~-llll!l!bl!@Pllll_ e,aUl---9!_!JIBl------•:i:.W--a.-.-_____,__.,,::au,_,,___'=":-_-~---• 
Monday, Nove!Tl_~e_r ~3, 1998 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER page 3 
¦ (RISH INSIGHT 
Notre Dame seniors step up in final home game 
Bryant, wlw meed in for the seniors lhis week­
By BILL HART score. end can add up to 
A.,.;.,,.m Spotts EJi[()r In tho third quarter, the a big victory. 
Tigors were charging for anoth­"This is the 
If tlwrn has heen mw constant nr touchdnwn, up by SBven and greatest way to go in an otherwis11 shaky snason. it looking to add more security. out I could ever has hncm thn l'arl lhat playors Enter safoty A'Jani Sanders, think of," said hav1i st,iJJprnl up lo produce wl10sc interception set up a six­Mike Rosenthal, critical plays that r,an dmngn play driw !'or a touchdown, "To come back tlw ti<lfl of a gamn. puHlng tho Irish within a point. from lwo touch­
Against PurdtH', it took two /\llnr Lim Tigers rnspondfld with downs down and intPrct\plions i11 tlH' last two a two-touchdown run or their lay it al! on the 111inut1\S by Tony llriv11r to sPt own, J1u:k:,;o11 responded by lak­!inn to hmve this 
up and pros11rv11 an Irish win, In ing to the air. 11<' found split f\tHI place a victor. This tltc Army game, Jim Sanson Malcolm .Johnson three timHs was just a great kickPcl a carnnr-lnng 48-yard during the eight-play drive, win." !fold goal with I:06 lnft to push including an eight-yard run for Don't be misled thc1 Irish ovnr the top. Two the score. by the 4-6 record wnnks ago against Boston "Today we proved that when that LSU carried C:ulli1gn, it look a gutsy g:ou!-linc we am called upon we arc out of Notre Dame stand by the tH1tire clnl'ensivo going to make the plays," Stadium. Bel'ore unit lo protect the victory. Johnson said. "We all played this season began, 
Iltmcling into lhis game, it wilh a lot of heart today." experts looked to looked like rnltl morn play1ff The Tigers got the ball back this game to make would rim•d to sWp up aod ll'lad and slowly made l11P.ir way or break the sea­tlrn Irish Lo victory. In a gamo as down the lie.Id, poised !'or son for tho Irish. unusual as this wenk1md's, anotlrnr score to put lhe game DBspitl-l the Tigers' IHiWPVnr, ii would t.ako an out of' rnach, But on a pass disappointing sea­cntirn cust and crew. And as it intm1decl for a touchdclwn. son, it shouldn't was the final lwmn game of the I toward swiped the ball and have been looked season, it was perhaps appro­returned it for a touchdown, at any differently priate that most of those players putting the lrish within one yet this weekend. w11ni nrnmbcrs of the scniol' again. With this week­class. playing tlioir fine home "Like we say in practice all end's loss, the ganw wnaring the blue and the time," Davie remarked. "I Tigers have lost gold, told Bobbie I Ioward that you three games this 
Early in the first quarter, Urn never know when you are going season by a com­Irish found themselves in a make a big play. If someone had bined seven third-and-long situation, down told me that his short little legs points. The differ­
by a touchdown and dnsperute would carry that ball a!J the ence of one touch­with all their heart this sive play of the day, it was prob­f'or a chanc1: to respond. On thn way, I wouldn't have believed down, spread out over a few Saturday, hoping for one shot at ably the most damaging blow 
1wxl play, Jackson found a wide thorn." games, could have changed this redemption. the team had taken all season. oprn1 Bobby Brown to mt>V!) Um After an LSU field-goal team's outlook from under­This weekend, however, the "I feel so bad for Jarious as a Irish 44 yards. Twn plays later, attnmpt went wide, the Irish achieving disappointment to Irish fought with just as much person," Davie said about the freshman David Givens earned received the ball for one last postseason contention. passion and determination as injury, "The team is a little 
Llrn lirsl touchdown of the shot at the lead. This time, how­Even when the team entered 
they had all season. As a result, upset. His injury takes some­earner off a perfoctly executed ever, it was Jackson who calmly into South Bend, it still had a they finished out the home thing out of the victory. But set­
option pitch from Jackson, carried the offense for a field­shot at playing over the holi­schedule undefeated for the backs arc something you light 
In thn second quarter, a length drive, capped by a 10 -days. With wins over two top 
first time since 1989. through." missed 27-yard field goal yard touchdown pass by Raki ten opponents in successive Unlike other come-from­So as the Irish head wnstward attempt gave the Tigers the ball Nelson. weeks. LSU would have looked behind victories, however, this to face the hostile Trojans, they again, with the chance to blow Sure, it normally takes a con­more attractive to minor bnwl one came at a tremendous will look yet again for someone llw game wide open. However, certed toam effort to win a foot­committees, despite its price. When the Tigers' Arnold on the roster to step up, reverse Dck1\ Cooper was able to cause ball game, but sometimes plays mediocre record. Make no mis­Miller tackled Jackson in the the setbacks, and end the sea­
like the ones made by these take: The Tigers were fighting
a f'umblc recovered by Lamont endzone on the linal Irish offcn-son on a positive note. 


TEAM 
1. 
Tennesse 

2. 
Kansas St. 

3. 
UCLA 

4. 
Florida St. 

5. 
Ohio St. 

6. 
TexasA&M 

7. 
Arizona 

8. 
Florida 


9. Notre Dame 
10. 
Wisconsin 

11. 
Tulane 

12. 
Georgia 

13. 
Arkansas 

14. 
Nebraska 

15. 
Michigan 

16. 
Virginia 

17. 
Georgia Tech 

18. 
Air Force 

19. 
Miami 

20. 
Virginia Tech 



, 21. Syracuse ..-'i 22 Oregon
r•-·--·· fl .
·r.-i: .
,:,,, ... 23. Penn St. 
.:;;,:t· 24. Missouri 
25. Mississippi St. 

¦ STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th Final 
Notre Dame 7 7 13 12 39 
·­

RECORD POINTS 
LSU 7 14 13 2 36 10-0 1,715 11-0 1,685 
Team Statistics ND LSU 
~ t1'<~~ [

10-0 1,628 
First Downs 23 25
11-1 1,547 
Hushes-Yards 48-194 44-148 
__,___p _J~

10-1 1,446 
Passing-Yards 276 256 
10-1 1,417 
Comp-Att-lnt 13-21-1 18-30-2 
10-1 1,326 
Return Yards 172 114 
9-2 1,217 
Pun ts-Yards 1-48 2-93 
Fumbles-Lost 3-1 1-13
9-1 1,165 
V

Penalties-Yards 4-35 5-35 TimP. of Possession 31:24 28:36 
10-1 1,098 10-0 1,000 8-2 965 
S. 

8-2 783 8-3 766 
Individual Statistics 8-3 714 8-2 698 
Rushing 
ND-Jackson 21-80, Denson 2:{-80, Givens 1-22, Spencer 3-12 I.SU-Faulk 31-108, Tyler 9-26, Mealey 2-11, Foster 2-3 
8-2 627 10-1 604 7-2 559 

Passing
a:-2 371 
ND-Jackson 21-13-1-276
7-3 297 
LSU-Tyler 21-14-2-186, Nall 9-4-0-70 
-.....

8-3 278 7-3 233 Receiving 7-4 232 NU-Nelson 4-78, Holloway 3-71. Brown 2-65, Johnson 4-62 7-3 147 LSU-Booty l:H 53, Foster 5-49, Robinson 2-34, Kipps 2-16 


¦ SCORING SUMMARY  
1st Quart~ir  2nd Quarter  · 3rd Q~•alier .. . ..  . .  ,  4th Qmirter  
LSU-Homan 55-yurd interception  LSU-Faulk 1-yard run (kick blocked)  ND~Denson 3-yard run (kick failed)  ND-Bryant 89-yard interception  
return (Chauvin kick)  ND-Bryant 13-yard fumble recovery  LSU-Booty 27-yard pass fro:m Tyler  return (kick blocked)  
ND-Givens 22-yard ruu (Sanson kick)  (Sanson kick)  (kickblocked)  ND~Nelson  10-yard  pass  from  
LSU-Faulk 88-yat·d kickoff return  .LSU-Booty 18-yard pass from Tyler  Jackson (pass failed)  
{Tyler rush)  (Boyd kick)  LSU-Team safety  
ND-Johnson  8-yard  pass  from  
Jackson {Sanson kick) ... ;;.;;f!i.. :.. ' . ,-,. ;,.  



·---­
---~--
Ocenes ­
Monday, November 23, 1998-------------------O THE -------------------------page 11
BSERVER 
¦ VIDEO PICK Of THE WEEK ¦ CHART-TOPPERS 


Srl'ne Movie ( :rick Company, whore h(1 meots Susan, (Elizabeth Perkins) an uxer.utive with the Onn word to desr.rilw the 1988 conmdy, mind and body of 1111 adult.. Yot through "Big," is ih<• simpl<i tit.ular adjncl.ivc 'big.' lmr inturadion with Josh, whose childish It is not an epic. Nor is it a high-budget perspective concerning toys earns him a blockhustnr action llick. IL-, bignoss lios in big promotion to vice-president, she soon tlm many layers that p1mPtrnte its fantasy learns that acting like a child is some­plot. times necessary when one is an adult. 
Movie Title Gross Sales 

.lnshua Buskin H>avirl Moscow) is the Josh and Susan became intimate, and main charactnr who begins the film as a ultimately she is the one thing that pushes 12-year old adolesrnnt who ynarns lo be Josh to return lo his teenage body. 1 . The Rugrats Movie $ 28.0 million old1ff and physically bigger. At a carnival The only character in "Big" to know 2. Enemy of the State $ 20. 3 million 01111 night. Joshua wishes upon the magi­about Josh's transformation is his best 
3. The Waterboy $ 15.8 million

cal vidHo game "Zollar" that he could be friend Hilly, who aids Josh when he is big. Tim next morning. of coursn, Joshua confronted with his new life. This friend­4. Meet Joe Black $ 8.6 million wakns up as a 30-year old grown man, ship theme ol' the film adds to its emotion­
5. I Still Know What You $ 7.2 million

playnd by Tom 1Ianks. al weight, as Billy becomes Josh's dose of Th n rnst of' the movit1 reality when Josh wanL'i to Did Last Summer lakes .Josh on a ,.-;ix-week remain an adult. Billy is 
6. The Siege $ 4.1 million 

advm1turn as an adull in also a kcv to the comic Nc•w York City, bccm1s11 thn excellence of "Big" as he 7. I'II Be Home For $ 4.0 million l>Ppartnwnt nl' Consunwr accurately and unendingly 
Christmas 

Affairs will not lw able to portrays the adolescent boy 
8. Pleasantvi Ile $ 3.3 million

!incl out wlwre .Josh can in his self-confident and rind a11otlwr "Zoltar" arrogant glory. 9. Antz $ 2.7 million marhinP for that amount of But the coolness of the 
10. Celebrity $ 1.7 million

Linw. film should be mainly 
II is during this six w11eks attributed to Tom flanks, thal llw amlienct1 witness­whose Oscar nominated Source: Associated Press es llw hi1{ncss of "Big." pnrformanco of' a child 
Tim initial transforma­trapped in a man's body tion in this f'ilm is tlrn proved to be u subtle major 01w. Evnryone wisl1-reminder of what we were 
f'S during llwir childhond all likn as children. One of Lhat tlH1y could lw an adult the obvious tnndencies of aln1ady. Kids want to stop Josh's kid pnrsonality was Video Title 
lwing tn1atcd as kids. his excessive use of the TPeiiagms want lCI leavn word "neat." 
1. Deep Impact

th,i twst and spread tlwir It was neat to see how wings. Tom Hanks stars in "Big." much of Josh was rubbed 2. The X-Files Josh's desire to be big is onto other adult characters. 
3. Hope Floats 

just that same predicament that everyone This was especially clear when Susan 
4. A Perfect Murder

confrnnls. Yet this time, Josh's desire replied to a toy idea with the exclamation, bncomes a reality. "Neat!" 5. Godzilla hn11111diatnly, .Josh realizes that lifo as a In the end, "Big" teaches its viewers 
6. City of Angels

1,rrown-up is n()t all that it is cracked up to that childhood is a good thing that must hn. !\!though it is situational, Josh loses be experienced to be happy in adulthood. 7. Lost in Space contact with his family because of his Also, adulthood is not meaningful without 
8. Mercury Rising

adult apprntrance. 1lis mother thinks he is some childlike experiences. Finally ­kidnapped by Tom Ilanks' adult .Josh. something we all know -friendships, 9. Wild Things .Josh is Limn forced lo move to New York especially good friendships, should and 
10. The Bit Hit

City, find a job and live alone. Thn lirst will endure through even the most trying scene of" Josh's loneliness gives the audi-of circumstances. 1mrn a glimpS!\ at the child that is ()IJ the This is the essence of life, and the sim­
Source: Billboard Online 

inside of the man's body, as Josh lies on ple tale that "Big" tells is a largely impor­his lml1!( Imel in the Ida! position, crying. tant give-and-take message that everyone Through simple luck, Josh is able to should try to learn. 




¦ BUGS ARE COOL 
Hollywood loves kids; but do kids love Hollywood? Uy MlKE VANEGAS 
As.~i~c:tm ~cenc fa!iror 
Studios, sturt your tingin11s. 
This week. the roal cmnpoti­tion b«igim,. Disnoy·s "J\ Bug's Lif'n" up,•ns for t.he five-day Thanksgiving wonkond ngainst ''Bahe: Pig in the City," last we11k':; hox-ollice numlrnr-one hit ·'Thn Hugrats Moviu" and th11 ol11Hr movit, about bugs, "Antz.'' 
But nm any studio w,~lly rhal­lengH the animated film/ kid lilm juggonmut of Disney? 
Appurently, Oreamworks SKG is making a serious run for Dislltly's money, and this nm has alrencly been accepte.d as sue­
cess. 

"Antz." which opened in early Oct.obflr, stHI finds itself in the box-offico top 10 at number nine, earning $2.7 million. In its almost two ·month run. ''Antz" has alrnady enrned over $80 mil­lion, making it the highest gross­ing non-Disney animated film. 
And Drea.mworks' bid to out­pnrform Di!':llllY continues WHII until the en,d of the year, as it releases thtl' fpic "Prince of Egypt" on··• P~cofuMt•. 18,.. jl!St in time for tht. Cbtlstmas tilmgoing extravaganza. Some might ques­tion, though, the attraction that the story of Moses might have to kids. But one should novor dis• count the impact that kids have on a film's success. • 
Thal is precisely how "Bahn" 

"A Bug's Life" opens up to stiff competition this Thanksgiving holiday. 
became tlle big success that it did. l'he kicl,s.watched it. But it will be abig surprise if "Rabe: Pig in the Qty'' can ovorcom1i "A Bug's Life'' this weekend and endure past the New Year. Plagued by pl'oductiun problems, ''Babo H" seems to be the typical high-bndget underperforming ilick, a la "Wawrworld." 
And the final throat to Disnoy's domination is of course that of.her little kid phenomenon. Nickelodeon. The cable station venturod out into the big scl'e"1n this past weekend with "The Rugrats Movie," and G,UIHl oui smiling with $28 million and tho number one box-office spot. 
Good luck, Disney. 
Box-Office Predict.ion 
1. A Bug's Ufe 
2. 
Enemy of thli State 

3. 
The Rugrats Movie 


New iRe~ea:s,e.s At the video store 
The Negotiator (Nov. 24) Dr. Dolittle (Nov. 24) Sliding Doors (Nov. 24) 
At the theaters 
A Bug's Life (Nov. 25) Very Bad Things (Nov. 25) Babe: Pig in the City 
(Nov. 25) 
Source: Hollywood.com 
_,...-­

page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, November 23, 1998 
¦ HOCKEY 
Depleted squad falls just short to Michigan Wolverines 
played in Dhadphale's place on second
Loss drops icers 
the team's first line against period sig­WMU. The sophomore proceed­naled theinto tie for first ed to fill Dhadphale's shoes by end of the scoring his third and fourth team'sin CCHA goals of the year; his first one flawless came on the first shift of the play. The By TED BASSANI game. The momory of Western third period Sports Writer Michigan's goalie provided the turned ugly Irish with a challenge. for the Irish The Notre Dame hockey team "When we went up there, as they held onto its (irst-place stand­!Barnes, WMU goalie] was awe­gave up five ing in the CCHA and rcma.ined some, so it was important to get third period unbeaten at home with its 9-5 that first goal early," said g o a I s , win over Western Michigan last Chipchase. including Friday night at the Joyce ln fact, Barnes' night would throe power Center. end at the 10:37 mark of the play goals, But the next night, a depleted second period. as he was pulled on their Irish squad suffered its second from the game following Brian way to an loss of the season by a count of Urick's 50th career goal. unusually 1-0 at the hands of the After scoring two goals in the high-scor­Michigan Wolverines. After first period, Notre Dame poured ing 9-5 win. Saturday's loss. Notre Dame it on with four more in the sec­"We lost droppect' into a first place tic ond. After Barnes was pulled, our focus with Michigan. Chris Peck allowed a goal to and our One big difference in the l.rish defenseman Tyson Fraser oncen tra­team's play this season has 18 seconds later on the first tion when it been its level of performance at shot he faced, which was was 6-0," tho Joyce Center. Last season, Fraser's first of the season. c o a c h fans saw some· of the team's Through two periods. the Poulin said more mediocre games en route lrish played as close to a flaw­afterwards. 
The hockey team went 1-1 this weekend, successfully defeating Western Michigan but falling 
to a 6-8-4 mark on home ice. So less game as they have played "There 
to Michigan the following day. 
far this year. Notre Dame is still all year; clearly the Irish were were a lot unbeaten at home with a record the better team on the ice. of missed of close. frustrating games the to Ben Simon at the end of the of 5-0-1. Following a assignments and miscommuni­team has lost to Michigan. In second period 119:54). 
Now, the recent slump, cation." 
their last seven meetings with On the night, the team's starIrish must the penalty unit Evon with the sloppy defen­Michigan. the Irish are 1-5-1, penalty killer was goaltenderwait until killed five sive play in the third period, the 'THERE WERE A LOT OF with all the losses coming by Forrest Karr, who turned in yet
Jan. 9 to play straight WMU Broncos never closed the gap to 
MISSED ASSIGNMENTS one goal. another impressive perfor­
their next power plays less than three goals. Ben "It's so frustrating, mostly mance.
home game, AND MISCOMMUNICATION,' through two Simon, Matt Van Arkel and 
because I feel we're a better A highlight of the night waswhich is periods. Craig Hagkul[ each scored goals team than they are, but we're his save in the third period,against A big reason in a wild eight-goal period. 
just not getting the job done," robbing sophomore JoshMiami of DAVE PouuN for the unit's The win over Western 
Urick said. "I think we're really Langfeld on a two-on-one withOhio. In the NOTRE DAME HOCKEY COACH success was the Michigan took its toll, however, looking forward to playing them a brilliant stick save. Karrmeantime. play of defense­as Notre Dame added Ryan again in January." made 25 saves in all in a losingthe team will man Ryan Clark and right wing Joe As for the game itself, Notre effort.
play seven-Clark and for­Dusbabek to its list of casualties Dame started off a bit slow in For just the fourth time in 13
straight games on the road, ward Dan Carlson. Clark's going into Saturday's show­
the first period as Michigan car­games this season. Notre Dameincluding the one just played in thunderous hip check and his down against the Wolverines at ried the offensive play. One big was outshot, this time by aAnn Arbor on Saturday. overall physical presence frus­Yost Arena. 
reason for that was the three count of 26-16. However, asGoing into Friday's game trated the Bronco power play After the game, captain Brian penalties the Irish took in the much as Michigan may haveagainst the Broncos of Western through two periods, but Clark Urick made no excuses. 
first period alone. outplayed the Irish offensively,Michigan. Notre Dame was still missed the third period due to "Certainly missing After its horrific showing in the lone goal of the game was a
without its star power play injury. [Dhadphalel and [Dusbabekl 
the third period the night fluke.

scorer, Aniket Dhadphale, who Carlson scored the team's takes scoring out of the lineup, before, the penalty killing unit Midway through the second
also sat out of the Michigan first shorthanded goal of the but we had chances to score came through huge as period, sophomore Scott
game. His absence was certain­season, finishing off a 2-on-1 and win the game," he said. 
Michigan, like the Irish, went Matzka threw a shot towardsly noticeable, as the Irish power rush with a blistering snap shot "The guys who played stepped scoreless with the man advan­the net, which ended up rico­play failed to score in both over Peck's right shoulder to up and played well." 
tage. Included in their six kills cheting off the leg of seniorgames. make the score 6-0. In fact, the 1-0 loss repre­was a five minute major given Sean Ritchlin and into the net.
Left wing Chad Chipchase But the horn at the end of the sents just one in a recent string 

Please recycle The Observer. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.

Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content wirhouc issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 

Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruisel6 Days $279! 
Includes most meals! Awesome 

Beaches.Nightlife! Departs From Florida' Cancun & Jamaica 
Air.Hotel.Meals &Parties $3391 Panama City Room Wilh Kitchen,7 Free Parties $129! Daytona Room With Kitchen $149'springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
#1 Spring Break Specials! Book Early & Receive a Free Meal Plan!!! 
Cancun & Jamaica $399,Bahamas $459,Panama City $99. 
1-800-234· 7707 endlesssummertours.com 

ILOST & FOUND I 
lost black CD player case with 10 CD's. big reward. please. call john 4-3650 

Found: Keys on Adidas keychain outside Debartolo. Call x0584. Thanks 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK '§§! 
Cancun*Nassau'Jamaica*Mazatl an*Acapulco•Bahamas Cruise*Florida"South Padre 
Travel Free and make tots of Cashl Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs. Lowest price Guaranteed. Call now for detailst www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT-
Workers earn up to $2000+/month (w/tips & benefits). World Travel' Land-Tour jobs up to $5000-$7000/summer.Ask us how! 517-336-4235 
Ext.C55841 
FORRENT I 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME 
FOR NO/SMC EVENTS VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds. 
5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115, Middlebury,30 miles from campus. 
Toll Road.Exit #107 
1-800-418-9487 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ISTRY-rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291­7153. 
1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM­PUS. AVAIL NOW & FALL 1999. 272-6306 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5BEDROOM 232-2595 
House for rent, 105 Marquette, 5 bedrooms, available now and for next fall, 232-6964 
Room for Rent in Turtle Creek apartments.Call 273-2435. 
Room. $250/mo. Use kit. 2 mi. from campus. Pref. female grad. 
Avail. end of Dec. 
246-1916. 
FOR SALE 
PRE AID PHONE AR 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 
FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! 
Bed box set. not available in 
U.S. call pete at 251-0178. 
PHONE CARDS $20 buys 282 mins. Contact: 
Andrea -634-2584 Dori -684-3339 MiMi -634-0907 
Mac 520 power book and image writer printer both for $650. Call 287-7928 

MAC Powerbook145 $400080 x2116 
TICKETS 
2 LSU tix 4 sale. 8.0. 
273-1510 leave offer. 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!!! Sending & Receiving at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" 
Spring Break Packages are going fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica Packages for the Class of '99! 
Stop in at Anthony Travel in the LaFortune Student Center and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. 
Get your deposit in by Dec.18 and save. 
Don't take a chance with an unknown agency or some 1·800 number. 
Limited space available,so book now! Anthony Travel.Inc. LaFortune Student Center 631-7080 
Looking for a unique gift? 
Bring in 12 of your favorite pic­tures and we'll create a custom color calendar. 
THE COPY SHOP laFortune Student Center 
Full Color Desktop Publishing Services are now available at The Copy Shop In LaFortune. Design, Scanning, Printing and Copying in COLOR. 
Only one more paper until Thanksgiving! 
I wish I were in bed. 
At least the template works. 
mr_ biggelsworth sure knows how to party. 
i am legal! 
hey allen-thanks for the chat. we are soul-emotion-mates. 

----------..-----­
Monday, November 23, 1998 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital 
punishment demean the lives of 
countless individuals in our society. Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration to pray for an end to the culture of death. 


"l malw a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our love for the poor more compassionate... 11 
-Mother Teresa 
Sponsored bv Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG • IMJ 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift oflife. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his owh spiritual lifo as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 

comes from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the I lost is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Ilirn for a certain amount of time ( usually ½-1 hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least 
interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with I lim, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuOect as a sign of reverence to lesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways lo pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to lesus­like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Ilim and allow 
Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or a monstrance, is a recog11itio11 of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates 11s to 1111ite ourselves to Him i11 a spiritual wmmirnion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony wilt1 the worship which we owe Him in spir"it and trnth. .. 11 
-Post•Conciliar (Vatican 11) Document, S.C.ll.W. 

EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPlJS: 
FRIDAY: Blessed Mother Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11 :30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4: lSpm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 

STARTING NOVEMBER 30 Enjoy our Burger King® Breakfast Menu from 9:00 am• 10:30 am 

The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topped with sizzling sausage, egg and mdted cheese tastes so good, it's enough to make anybody happy in the morning. Ifonly getting through the rest ofthe day was as easy. 
(Al pan,cipat1ng restaurarts During l>reakfasl hours only.\ 
BURGER 
KING It just tastes IJetter. 
Volleyball 
continued from page 20 
The Irish hit .217 to the Hoyas' .108, and also out­blocked the Boyas 15.5 to five. 
Bomhack hit .406 to lead the Irish attack. She had 1 5 kills and 10 digs in the match. 
Junior opposite Emily Schiebout complemented Bomhack ·with 10 kills and nine digs. Sophomore Jo Jameyson recorded 10 kills, and setter Michelle Graham came up strong with 10 digs. 
Georgetown was led by Big East Player of the Year Melissa Tytko, who hit .316, and all-Big East first team seler,tion Kiran Gill, who had a match-high 19 kills and 13 digs. 
Big East Rookie of the Year and all-Big East first team choice Yulia Vyturina was not up to her usual performance, with 12 errors in the match. 
Georgetown's head r,oach, 
Jolene '.'/agcl. was announced 
as Big East Coach of the Year 
this weekend. 
In the semi-finals, Notre 
Dame beat the Connecticut 
Huskies 9-15, 11-15, 15-13, 
15-13, 15-13. 
The Irish came dose to los­
ing the match in game three, 
as they were behind 13-12 
before a hitting error by 
Connecticut and a kill by 
sophomore outside hitter 
Christi Girton kept Notre 
Dame's championship hopes 
alive. 
Four players had double-

page 14 

doubles (kills and digs) in the balancod attack by the Irish: freshman Kristy Kreher, Bomhack, Girton and senior middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell. Bomhack had a career-high in digs with 18. while Girton put up career and team season-highs in digs with 21. 
The Iluskies put up a strong defense behind all-Big East first team selections Annette Rynn and Jenelle Koester. Hynn had :15 digs in the match and 19 kills, while Koester led Connecticut with 24 kills. But on the flip side, both players were in double digits in errors. 
The Irish won match one over the Pittsburgh Panthers 15-10, 14-16, 15-8 and 16-14. 
Bomhack, Girton and Treadwell were in double-dig­its in kills. Bomhack and Treadwell also had double­digits in digs, as did Kreh er. 
The Irish out-hit the 
Panthers .215 tu .149, and 
recorded only 26 errors in the 
match. 

Regular season Big East honors were announced this weekend at the Big East championships banquet. 
Treadwell, the Irish r,aptain, 
was named to the all-Big Rast 
first team. She led the Irish 
this season in digs, blocks, hit­
ting percentage and service 
aces. Treadwell was seler,ted 
as the Big East player of the 
week earlier this year, and 
was named to two all-tourna­
ment squads. 

In 1996, she was named the 
MVP of the Big East tourna­
ment. 

Girton was selected to the 
all-Big East second team. She 
had eight double-doubles for 
the Irish this season, and was 
a one-time choice as Big East 
player of the week. 

Last year she was chosen on 
the Big East all-rookie team. 

Kreher and Bomhack were 
both selected to the Big East 
all-rookie team. Kreher led 
the team in Big East matches 
with .289 hitting. 
DO SOMET'HIN6 

THIS SUMMER~ 


Summer Seniice Projects 1999 
* 8 weeks of service learning * $1 700 tuition scholarship 
*Valuable alumni contacts 

* 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 

* 
Over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 



•Information meetings: 
Thursday: Nov. 191h  6:30 PM  
Monday:  Nov. 23  6:30 PM  
Tuesday:  DEC. 1  7:00 PM  



For more information or to place your order visit our Web site at: 
www.nd.edu/---solution 
.¦
.¦ 

''C-ELEBRATIONS AROUND THE WORLD" NOVEMBER30-DECEMBER4 FIRESIDE CHATS (FREE LUNCH) 
12:00pm -1:OOpm 
*NOTRE DAME ROOM LAFORTUNE STUDENT CEJVTER 
MONDAY -Prof. Yukiko Koshiro, "Japanese Celebrations" 
::•TUESDAY -Prof. Hindy Najman, "Hanukah"
-
WEDNESDAY -Fr. David Scheidler, "Fiesta de la Guadalupe" THURSDAY -Prof. Ramzi Bualuan, "Middle East Celebrations" FRIDAY -Kwanzaa, Co-sponsored by OMSA 
FREE LUNCH!!! 
*Tuesday's chat will be in the Foster Room 
..:...,_:::.___________________________________________-----­
page 17 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, November 23, 1998 
lineup has been part of the Blue Devils' games is more important than the wins we turn around, we're playing anollrnr
Basketball 
early-season problems. it tallies. ranked team. We feel that for us to bo ... 
Coach Gail Goestenkors' squad is now "We've looked at this season as a sea-ready in March we have to see these continued from page 20 off tn a dismal 1-3 start after a No. 4 snn of opportunity." she said. "We teams early. It gives us a chance to see preseason ranking. Goestcnkors believes looked at our schedule and everytime where we are." 
7 run that saw the team rebuild a 20· part of the problem is the deplelion point lead. Green IPd the scoring during of' her hench with the injuries. that nm with 10 ol' her own. The startor "We ran out of gas," she said. -who only had two points in the first "We're not in game shapo. " hair due to foul trouble -came alivn in Added to the foul trouble, Duke's the sncond and scorod tlrn rest of lwr 20 two leading scorers -VanGorp and points. Brnwne -were on the court a total 
"I wns in some oarly foul trouble, and of 26 minutes. For a team with its I was fenling kind of down, like I let the highest-ever preseason ranking, the t11am down," explained the 5-foot-8 Blue Devils have not shown the Green on her lmlf'limc turnaround. "i\nd numbers they arc capable of'. the socond half cam(l along and I _just Notre Dame's highest-ever prcsca­had a lot of energy." son ranking of 17th has been just 
Gnwn's match-up agninst Duke's soc­the beginning. Starting the season ond-lnuding scorer lasted just less than out with three of its !'our opponents twn minutes as a midr.ourt collision with ranked in the top 25, tho Irish are PHppi Browne took her out of the game. off to a 3-0 start. But the experience 
The recent rash of injuries in Dukn's McGraw's team gains from these 

WOMEN'S SOCCER 
NCAA Q!)ARTERFlNAL 

NOTRE DAME VS. 
PORTLAND 
SATURDAY, NOV 28 AT NOON AT ALUMNI FIELD 
CENTE!t FOR 
Center for Social Concerns

SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
C,-,e.:,c.lco Semlna..~ 
The _Mexico ~eminar is a o_ne-credit service-learning opportunity in Mexico. Dunng two weeks m late spring/early summer, Notre Dame and S~int_ Mary's s~~ents provide service to a variety of people while expene1:cm? the realities of Latin America directly. The program seeks to provide rntercultural exchange through shared work experience in the context of a faith community. Students participate in fundraising efforts to lower costs. 
• 
Two weeks in Mexico: May 13 to May 30th, 1999 (leaving time for summer work) 

• 
One credit Theology (Theo 366) 

• 
Spanish helpful but not required 

• 
Information Meeting: 

November 30, 4:15 PM at the Center (optional) 


• 
Applications are available at the Center 


• Applications due Mon., Dec. 4th by 5:00 PM with deposit 
For more information: Pedro Cavallero, 634-4146 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 
Soccer 
continued from page 20 
11. Tim game was also physical. as !"our yellow cards and onn red card wHrn issued. 
Tlw Irish defonsc played a big role in thn team's win and LaKeysia Beene made some grnat s,wes in goal. 
"Our motto in the back is as long as they don't score, we can't lose," Lindsey said. "We kept telling our­selves that the whole game. They got one, but our offense came through and scored two," 
Despite the loss, Nebraska's LeBlanc outplayed her counterpart. Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli described the goalkeeper's play as the best ever on Alumni Field. 
"She made some great saves and kept us in the game in the first half," Walker said. "She did an outstanding job for us today." 


You're approaching graduation and on the hunt for concrete information about potential employers. And in that search, 
you'll encounter mountains of information. Daunting amounts -from critical to trivial -that must be considered. Enter Arthur Andersen. We think you'll find our no-holds-barred, straight-answer approach a refreshing change, whether you're interested in Assurance and Business Advisory Services, Business Consulting, Global Corporate Finance or Tax and Business Advisory Services. 
You're in search of the truth. Arthur Andersen is where you'll find it. 
ARTHUR ANDERSEN ALL SERVICE LINE PRESENTATION WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2ND • 7:00PM TO 9:00PM AT THE NOTRE DAME CAMPUS­CENTER FOR CONTINUING EDUCATION
ARTHUR 
AUDITORIUM 

Open to Notre Dame & St. Mary's students interested in a summer internship
ANDERSEN 
Please bring a current resume. 

«:> 1998 Arthur Andersen. All rights reserved. Equal opportunity Employer. 

------------------------·---------------------­
·-··­

page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Monday, November 23, 1998 
¦ WOMEN'S INTERHALL fOOTBAll 
Plummer sparks Pasque-rilta E:ast Offenseto victory 
By MIKE CONNOLLY . bae.kto ... pas&,Jlh.·.e ro... unda1.1 ..he:rre.>c.e1.·.vor§; Pl u ffilnel'. · Spom Writer ·ctitete-d; Tlif:f8P defensMi :tush broke · r Said: ,. ·'"The · PJummer's 155 yards rushing were com• windy condi-. 
The Pasquerilla East Pyros have b(".en plementcd bv tailbackAnn Su3rle who tions • made known all season for their prgljflc offep§e I't1gf1~,d ;(9( ~(, yar{l~, 9n, PiJl!zJ;;J,rr(e~.•"cpassiI,J;g,<Iif'fl~ led by quarterback Eli2.abeth Plummer. SuJ:t.rle's delayed. draws· ,and QJif~ta.clde" ct1lt sow;e had but on Saturday. it was their deff'nse that rushing gav~.the Pyto offense a nice to rely a little captured the Pyros' second straight inter· chaqge of pace compared. to l'lummer's more our.run• ha.II title by d(-\feating Breen:PhHips, 14°!1. outS,ide sweep$, .·.·....•.. ·.·· . < .....•.•...••·· .·•· .. ••.. .. i-ning . gameThe Pyros defe11sh·e seccindary strut Trfe: e'ffectfvMess ofth~ op~fot1 su~-'today.·• J . down the passing attack of the Banshees. prised PE coach Brandon Williams: "We The Pyro Donata Parillo, weren't plan-.• defense con~ Allison Healy ning p]1 t1sing., tjnu.eli / .. i\$. and Anna Pasquerilla it much. BP domi.nil:ting
Benjamin forcod had shut It effort in the 
J:n~;at·~~~hi~1 East Pyros 14, !~;;;her~~:,·.·se~~1i;~;;:gI\
~~ _ 
throwing as . -'~ :~• · and:i~ifdfdn't puntthtµgavo many intercep-think that it PE the ball at tions as comple-would be the BP 38 ·. . ·.· TheObseiver/JohnDally 
· f" · t · .., · d · 1· ·· Ttie B-re(;j~~Philip$ .B:tnshe.es ',11(:lreunable to stop the attack of the 
tions. 9 •+(},}~, .. iv,~..•. y,ar . ,: ,<..JJ+1,, .. ....·•.s ... ...s; which won the interhall litle 14•6.
P.·•·.·a... CfUen.:.n.a\.East PY.r.o.·

"l just read the against, them., Plummer con.:, receivers well .. ; Thiir week nected with finally began to show as Choi had enoughtoday," Healy Breen-Philips eve~ything, .Gorman for 15,.l1ards, Tw~ plays J~ter time to set,upfor the first time all game. said about hor Banshees 6 JJJ.st, ,~u-ckeq,, . Plu:mli'lfll?han ....·· · · ·.eibal1;,tt1,"$u.arletv;ho. . Choi fired a pass,to her tight end 
two intercep-' heabtifully~• ;, iplowe·cr:hei' "'1. .. O the. B"anshe~ hne-Megan Speeks. The PE cornerback, who tions. Although yard-line. On second down, Plummer's had been playing oft' of Speeks, came up With the sec-·..·.·. . . .·· . . . . . ·.· ..•·· the.. rushing, dive for t?rend f1:1llsho';, > .. / .. . to make the tackle, An instant before she ondaryblanketing the Bansh~Greceiver;t, a.f ".· pr.o-v~~J:i'fe.r;U¥~; b<,th ."?~:,JQuch•,w, :Ori.~w;vng. <{q~:h. nJuij;Iµi~r drcipp~d grabbed Speeks' flag,Speeks flipped the the defensive line wreaked ha.voe in the d ·.. ,·. . 1-:arne troni Plummerpa.ss~s, , · straight' back .ah{lifired a 'pass to Molly ball to Natalie Kelley who was streakingBP backfield. Gino. Locklar led the Pyro Followiiig Ilealy's fJrSt interception, the . Ross in the bacK of the end-zone for up the sideline. Kelley outran the PE sec­pressure with two tackles.. for losses, Pyros took o~erat the,BP22-y~rd line . Plummet'.s seconi:l..ti.mchd9wn pass .ofthe on!iary and scored a 60-yard touchdown. three quarterback tmrries apela s1:1-ck> · . wltlt:AO,s¢c~'fg(,{s r •.. ·. 1gj11., ~hti .flr~t};'game, ·". .. · . x... ..· .··•··•····.... .··. ·.··· The two point conversion was no good
The Ba11shee ground attack fared rio ·• half:''.Plununerdtop k to pdss and•'< The two poirit tQ'pversionJell shorfand and the scored remained 14-6 in favor of better against the stilling defense of the found Kari Ha.nley open at the 17-yard the Pyro lead remained 14°0. the Pyros. Pryos. Choi and running back Frances.t;a line,Hanley ~ught the.pass and inunedi~ ... Followil1g anotl}~r stop b}',the defense, With less than three minutes remain­Delayo ..were held to onlY.,..4Tyards gf atfl~pitched;tM; baU t~ tailbaek.~eliss~••··•···the Pyrqt .ofl'en$y drOVlJ)ll:OWD· the ±1,Id ing, the BP defense came up with their combined rushing. · ··· · · Gorman. Goiµi'an scampered upt.he side-· tooking for their third touchdown ofthe best effort of the game.
kWe had to adjust to their blitzing;" line for eight yards. The hook~n-lateral game. . Pursuing down the line, the linebackers Choi said. "We had never seen blitzing gave .the Pyro$. the ball at the BP nine, .· Plum..ql~r connicted. with Hanleyifor shut downthe option on first down. from the defensive line and theJinebac.k~ yarttUne... < .. > ·· • •·. . •Bightyarrls, AfteJ:a:n lncomplete pasJ;; on Oh second down. Suarle was stopped ers like that before.H On second down. Plummer again·· second down. Plummer dropped back to after a three yard gain. Facing third and 
While the Pyro defense stole the show. dropped back to pass. Gormanslid .pass. Slightly overthrowing her intended 17. Plummer dropped back to pass but the offense controlled the ball and put up a.cr.oss foe ba<:k. of th.e secondary and / receive:r,.BP copterbac~ I)onna Con19n · her pass fell incomplete, bringing upenough points to "'in. end~4 up OJ{!:},,. in the ..back • of!Ii,·e.nd-. ·•· ' capitalii~<i on fl · er1sfli;st mistake of fourth down; 
Elizabeth Plummer completed fafr zone. Plummetlofted a'pass to lier for a the game and p off the pass in the The Pyro punt feU into the waitinginterhall career on a high note, con• 6-0 Pyro lead; The two point conversion end-zone. Choi and the HP offense took arms of Choi, but Choi muffed the catch. tributing 122 yards of total of.Tense. was good 1;1.ncl.Jl:ie Pyros ·.led 8-0 at half .••over at ~eir o~:,20-yar~Jine ,withJess BP.retained possession but was left 55 
Early in the first half, sh~e~cutedct:n, tlrne+ ..··. • ···.· > ... ··•·· r< .··.. ·...·.·••·····. . . · thanfl.)~.ipinµtes:i~airi:1ng< ya:nls from the endzone with only 40 sec­most athletic play of the game. Dropping "We run a .pretty balanced a.ttack," The adjustments made; at halftirne onds remaining. 
¦ MEN'S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Keenan Knights shut out Sorin to repeat as champs 
By BRIAN HOBBINS The Knights came into the cial role in the first half's the third quarter piecing in practice on the advice of Sports Writer finals riding on two undefeat­scoreless tie. Both punters together an impressive drive Nick Costanza. ed seasons and their defend­performed well, overcoming a into Knight territory. Venvertloh aired the ball out 
A strange aura of deja vu ing champs title, while the strong wind to pinch opposing Unfortunately for the Otters, to freshman Kevin Carney lurked about the Notre Dame Otters arrived with the inten­offenses in bad starting field Keenan cornerback Nick after rolling out, throwing the campus this weekend. tion of redemption and an position. Costanza was looking to ball across his body and the 
However, the deja vu that upset victory for their pletho­"We were where we wanted redeem himslef for an first field to the back corner of the marked Notre Dame's third ra of departing seniors. to be at halftime, we felt con­half fumble -and he did so in endzone. 
clash with LSU in two seasons A scoreless first half was fident we could execute in the a big way. 
Sorin was not all that was on the characterized by explosive second half," Giorgio said. The Otters 
refused minds of the men of Keenan defense and sustained yet Keenan's Nick Chen said, drove deep 
to let and Sorin Halls. The minds of scoreless drives. Both teams "We were confident in our into Knight 
t h e these student athletes were acknowledged the role of the abilities." territory and 
p I a y devoted to the football inter­oppositions' defensive units in The second half of action were looking 
shake hall championships, featuring the first half stalemate. . featured more dramatics than to score. 
its con­another hard-fought battle In addition to strong perfor­the first as the clock wound "We knew 
fidence between Keenan and Sorin mances by both defenses, spe­down and emotions ran high. if anyone 
a n d Halls. cial teams also played a cru-Sorin sparked its offense in were to 
stepped score that 
up to would be it, 
s t () p the defense 
the two was just that 
point good on both 
conver­sides," said s i o n , Keenan's Carlos Meade. providing great hopes for 
Fortunately for Keenan, their offensive squad. Peter Belden went to the air The final tense seconds and Costanza came down with found the Otters inside thn ten an interception to end the with four plays to score. The Sorin drive. first two plays of the scoring 
Having worked the ball into attempt were marred by loss­Otter territory quarterback es of footing. Pacing a third Craig Venvertloh faced several and long Belden called f'or a crucial third down conver­pass play that had worked all sions. On the first third and day. long Venvertloh was nushed The fact that it had been out of the pockel and used all day, however, left appeared doomed. He found Keenan's hero Kevin Carney Nelson Rivera at the last suspicious of the formation. minute to keep the drive alive, Carney made a hard break to however. tbe hall coming up with an 
Joe Klopp's reception left interception he returned for the Knights in a first and goal 55 yards, ruining the Otters' situation from the five. A chance to score. short gain followed by a big The Keenan offense loss on a quarterback sweep returned to the field one last left Keenan in dire need of time taking a quick knee to another big third down play. close the door on its second
The Keenan Knights wrapped up a second-consecutive undefeated season, defeating the Sorin Otters 6-0 
Venvertloh called a play that consecutive undefeated sea­
for the men's interhall football championshiJ:) Sunday. 
the team had only worked on son. 



p;1ge 19 The Observer• TODAY Monday, November 23, 1998 

;'lliANICSGIVING 15 A TIME 
MOM, IS tT oK IP I Go 
O'I/ER: To !)EN1S('S HO\JSE 
r To SPEND Wl1l, FAMILY.' 

l PRETH SooN You "1DS'LL
FoR Tl-lANk'SG1V1N& 

t SE GRoWN ANI) WE worn
DINNER THIS 'l'EAR? 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN 
FOX'fROT 
NOT~E MME'S OR(;JINIC CNeM 1'1{£Y f>ION 1 T f>ECOR'4re BEFoRE fHAtlKSff/lV/J.li-1HEY ~~ 1"IIA-r X-t't,c\S IS ALL Y~AR Ar«N/1/b Of? Ar lE'ASr ,//REE" /tllDNTHS (JUT tJF TIie Yt/fR BY !>(lORATIN r, f/fFOR.F HALloweeN. 

I CAN'T BELIEVE Yoll'D! WANT To HAVE !)INNER
f AT youR G1RLFR1ENO'S 
House INSTEAD oF HERE ! wm, US.' 
BILL AMEND 
\>/HO SAID 'TWo HI6H "INSTEAD'? lliAN~-FIVE, ouR OtNNER'S GlV1NG SoN l>.T 7. ,oq-lliE1RS. Mu.L~~! j · 
IS AT lf,oo. ARE You 
SCOTT ADAMS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
i CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS .DAY: Harpo )..farx, Steve Landesberg, ,Boris Karloff, Maxwell Caulfield 
Happ}' Birthday; You're' coming into a high cycle, which will r.-sult in 'high energ)' You should have no problem setting the wheels m motion and following through with your dreams over the year ahead. Yott can start to think in big terms again. and you'll be able to get people in high positions to help you achieve your goals. This is not the year to sit back waiting for things to happen. Take charge and make it so. Your numbers: 12, 14, 18, 23. 29, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't forget your lover. Deception and argument, will develop if you do. BP accommod,1tmg; ~ night out on th,, town should keep the relationship harmonious. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Trav­el for knowledge rather than plea­sure. Be creative in your daily endeavors to avoid boredom. Emo­tional disillusionment is likely if you let relatives in on your thoughts 
00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take time to organize your financial situa­tion and look over y,1ur personal papers. Emotional upset will result if you overspend on your partner You should be trying to save.000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Al­though relationships will develop today, don't jump in with two feet. Question your partner if you must. Underhandedness will lower your self-esteem and affect your reputation. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll feel like getting out and kicking up your het:'ls today. B,.. careful that you don't oversp!"nd in the process. Don't let employers take you /or granted. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
... 
-
OvNtime without suifiri,•nl pal' isn't worth it. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22): l.>u thing, with children. 1kip them w11h their physic,1[ needs. Gl'I int,, l1t1w,, programs and hubbies you've b,•,,i1 longing to pursue. Your creat1\'it\' 1~ in high gear 00000 
UBRA (Sept. 23-Oct. 22): Unusu,11 happenings in your honw em·1ron­1~1enl may disrupt your normal Tllll lmc. !k prcpMed to go \\'1th thl' flow in order to gel the most out of thl' circumstances. 00 
SCORPIO (Oct 23-Nov. 21): Gt•t tugcthcr with friends or relatives. Y,,,1 can learn a great deal ii 1·ou ltsten more than talk in c<Hl\'l'rsalions. Lovers may wanl to Sf'L'nd tinw .1lonc, so plan a quiet evt.1njng for twl1 
0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-0ec 21): You must take tinw to visit w1lh older family members. They will need y,,ur assistance and will probabll' ~ive you additional responsibilities. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Self-deception will be your worst cn,'rny. Do not let false pride gt'l 111 the way of trying to sal\'age a silu.i­tion }'Ou cherish. Your ability to lw reasonable will b<' )'Our be,t asset 
000 

AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): A quiet day spent with someone clns<' to ­your heart will be sati~fying You can make secretive plans for the future; however, compromise will be 1wces­sary. Don't take risks whik· tr,1veling 
000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20), Orga­nizational acti\'ities may be taking up too much of your linw. Gaugt> care• fully ,1s ynur l'italit)' will be 1,,,,.. leaving you open In minor ailments 
0000 

Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  
Name  

Address ____________________ City ________State ____ Zip______ 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 

t Prop up 6 Goddess pictured in Egyptian tombs 10 Fraud 
t4 Old autos 
t 5 Short letter 
t 6 Patriot Nathan t7 Feeling really good 20 Get-out-of-jail money 21 Hors d'oeuvre spread 22 Song for Aida 
23 Chomped down 24"-costto 
you!" 

25 Novelist Waugh 
27 Batter·s goal 
29 Frigid ALWAYS HAVE THESE oPl'ol!· 


2s Like a three-43 Bygone Russian 52 1 O C-notes 
dollar-b1ff group 53 Opposite of 26 Cashew, e.g. 44 Electrical unit unter. in German 28 "Tickle me" doll 45 Female 54 Can's 
29Anger attendant composition 32 Quanhly: Abbr. 46 Cheap cigar 55 Notwithstanding 
48 Sierra --that, briefly 34 Cable channel 49 Scottish Celts 56 Biblical priest 33 Sly trick 
35 Support 36" the Answers to any three clues In this puzzle season. 

are available by touch-tone phone: 37 Radial, e.g 
1-900-420-5656 (75c per minute) 38 Photo --­
Annual subscriptions are available tor the 
(media events) 
best of Sunday crosswords trom the last 42 Musical sign 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 1:~i000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensibJe link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

30 "Turandot" slave girl 3t Moon-landing vehicle 
32-· de 
Triomphe 33 "I -Grow Up" ("Peter Pan" song) 
34 Heads of state get-together 38 "It can't be!" 
39 Be in session 
40Nothing 
41 Peas' holder 
42 Pennies: Abbr. 
43 Creeks 47 Storm warnings at sea 49 Clinton's #2 
50 Wrestler's place 
51 Site for a swing 
52 Rlkk1-t1kk1-~ 

(Kiphng mongoose) 53 Capable ol 54 Little that's visible 
57 Poker call 
58 Mending site 
59 LOUIS XIV. 
1643-1715 60 Hawaii's state bird 6t Remove from 
office 62 Dunne ol ·1 Remember Mama" 
DOWN 
1 Thick-trunked tropical tree 2 Italian soprano Scotto 3 Clarinet1s1 Shaw and others 4 Retrigerate 
5 One of Kreskm's 
claims 
&Wee one 1----· voce (almost in a whisper) aSpillane s · 
Jury" 
9 Visuahze 
10 Beach 
t1 Set of bells 12 Relieving 
13 Club 
best 19 Undulating 
me" 



¦ Pasquerilla East and ¦ Brian Urick and the Keenan won interhall Notre Dame hockey football championships team fell to Michigan in Notre Dame Stadium. Saturday on the road. 
PORTS 
p.18 p.12 

O 
THE 
page 20 Monday, November 23, 1998
BSERVER 
-
-



Irish rally from a 1-0 deficit to beat Nebraska in tournament 
¦ WOMEN'S 8ASKETl.3AU 
Hoopsters rout,<No. 6. Duke in a major,ups~t 
Bv ANTHONY BIANCO ·. .~istatirSpwts Edi,or 
Excelkmt performances by both Ruth Riley and Danielle Green led Notre Dame 
to a &4-57 rout of No,6 Duke. the I r i s h ' s t h i r d ­straight vie• tory and s e r. o)1 d against a top-10 opponent. Green and Riley each had 20 points against the Blue Devils, and Riley also broke some defensive records. Her cai·t;er· 

high eight blocks tied a sc.bool · · · overeatn~.tbe lrish,i vyhO ·ok 
record set in 1980. and the 6° foot-5 Riley's 18 rebounds topped a 13-board effort of a year ago against Syracuse. 
:\.fatched-up against Duke's Michele VanGorp, Riley d()mi­nated the pairing againsfpne of the top centers fo fhe Atlantic Coast Conference. Having played against VanGorp over the summer on the U.S. Women's Basketball Select squad, Riley kn.~w exactly. what she was iii:> against and was preparetlfpr it. · 
VanGorp went just one .out of nine attempts in the game's beginning. She only came aJive in the final five minutes ofthe first half when Riley S!} J; netting six to finish th If with 11 points. 
Notre Dame started out with · a 16-3 run in the opening min· utes with Nie1e Ivey {nine points}and Sheila ~c~~JlyII{four ·pQintslleading Jb.~;;~yt 

¦ WOMEN'S SOCCER 
Keltey;St•Pl0lf•.•oopp~d,~fti;~t¥·•·.• 
drive ' Wfth ··a·· ttir'it+atQuiJtt< 
jumper frotrt the left sicle/giv-, ing the lrish a 16-3 lead,, Just seven Itiiqutes later sue ga.ve Notre Dame its bigge~t lead of the half"!' tu. 
ma.kl ~. ,; ·· the gam ....•....·.·· ?poi
tcam-leacµrfg,fivc assists, "'1pilc Siemon also assisted on five scores. 
The Blµ~ Qevils, trailing by 20 points.vvith seven minutes iii the u~lf"' s;hippep·a:~-\:~t)1,t. 
·. the lead, as the half can111·~n;:i. close behind VanGorp!sfloor performance; Duke's sei}for center sank her teams' firsl three buckets of the. second half. But tlie Blue De,il$ p.9ver 
VanGorp>oiit ohho g 
foultrouble: . . 
With aggressive center.$ in the starting lineup, both teams focusedon drawing the opposi­tion into heavy fouLtr9ubhi. The co tjtion bet · .·e: two cen . $61:¼medto rl 
in the second on the opening Duke drive but ended in Irish victory with VanGorp getting her third personal fouLand a spot on Emch, · 
"T th itwltsi ing/' s > tfeJ}a < ••d 
.coach.Muffet McGraw(lnthe strategy between .the teatil's centers>"It was one endfor 
Ruth and/one end for Miclii:de [VanGorpiJ/Fortunate 
·.w tr p 

e . With .. ·.· rp 
ontl, NotreP~me /,:~:::,,·. 

The Observer I Kevin Dalum The women's soccer team advanced in the NCAA tournament Friday. beating the Nebraska Cornhuskers 2-1 on Alumni Field . 
¦ VOLLEYBALL 
Netters take the Big East title 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
Behind the solid play of Big East Tournament MVP Marcie Bomhack, the Notre Dame volleyball team earned its fourth-straight berth in the NCAA tournament by winning the Big East tournament. 
The team earned its fourth consecutive conforcnce title by upsetting regular-season conference co-champions Georgetown and Connecticut, and by beating Pittsburgh. 
Notre Dame (17-12), coached by Debbie Brown, was the No. 3 seed heading into the tournament, held in 


The Observer/ John Daily Freshman Marcie Bomhack was named the Big East Tournament MVP this weekend as the Irish won their fourth-straight conference title. 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
At the 51:41 mark of Friday night's third-round NCAA tournament game with Nebraska, the fourth-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team found itself behind 1-0 , an unusual predicament for the usually dominating Irish. 
But like all championship-caliber teams do, Notre Dame responded and rallied to pull out a 2-1 victory at Alumni Field, earning a berth in next week's quarterfinals. 
"Our team never gets down no matter how far behind we get," sophomore Kelly Lindsey said. "I think it was just typical Notre Dame. We always come back and we have a lot of pride. We never lay down and die," 
"I don't think we lost any confidence," senior Monka Gerardo said. "We were mainly down on their side of the half for most of the game. It was just a matter of time before we put it into thfl net." 
After a scoreless first half, attributed mostly to the outstanding play of Nebraska goalkeeper Karina LeBlanc, the Huskers got on the boa.rd first, as Lauren Tatum scored on a chip shot that found the upper center of the net. 
The Irish tied it up less than two minutes later, Pittsburgh. 
The team started off tho tournament by beating the 
sixth-ranked home team Saturday by a score of three games to one. 
Later that night, they recovered 


from a two-Girton game defir.it to upset No. 2-seed Connecticut in five games. 
The final match against top­seod Georgetown proved no problem for the Irish, who won the match in three con­sflcutive games. 
Notre Dame has nut lost the tournament since joining tlrn Big East conference; also, this marks the fourth year in which a Notre Damo playnr won tournament MVP. This was the first year in which the Irish lost a Big East regular season match. 
Bomhack, a freshman out­side hitter. had 44 kills on 129 attempts this weekP.nd with a hitting average of .225. A Volleyball Magazine Fab-50 selection in high school. she was named to the Big East all­Rookie team earlier this weekend. She had 40 kills and nine blocks in this weekend's tournament. 
In the championship match against the Georgetown Boyas, Notre Dame only foll behind three times, despite keeping it close throughout. The Irish won 15-11, 15-10, 15-13 against the 24-5 Hoyas. 
Georgetown was hurt by its 34 errors, twice the number committed by Notre Dame. 
see VOLLEYBALL/ page 14 
when Jenny Heft scored at 53:38, after Nebraska failed to clear the hall. 
"We definitely picked it up,"said Heft. who scored her 27th goal of the season, breaking Cindy Daws' school record. "It was off of a cross and they misplayed it. It was an open ball in the box and I was able to get on it." 
"That was the crucial moment right there." Nebraska head coach John Walker. "They equal­ized within two minutes and that's disappointing. Anytime you get a lead like that you want to be able to maintain it and keep that momentum. We weren't able to do that." 
The Irish grabbed the momflntum and Gerardo scored the game-winner at 70:06. 
"She came in and all I did was cut down the angle," LeBlanc said. "She made a cut back and got off a good shot with a lot of pace on it." 
"Combination play is definitely one of our strong points," Gerardo said. "We're able to move the ball really well. Kelly Lindsey did a really good job of streaking down tho field and heating most of the players. I thought to myself if I didn't put this one in the net she would proba­bly kill me." 
The Irish outshot the Huskers on the day 22­
see SOCCER/ page 17
. .... 
at Southern California vs. Ferris State 
vs. Illinois 

Saturday, 8 p.m. at Grand Rapids 
SPORTS 

~ ~ 
Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 

NCAA Quarterfinals 
vs. Duke 

vs. No. 5 Portland NCAA first round 
at Grear Alaska Shootout 
~ Saturday, noon @ TBA 
Wednesday, TBA 
GLANCE 
¦ 








