
--~--­
7 
I 
Investigating the President 
Learning to Teach 
Thursday

Students share their stories about volunteer teaching
Inderendent Counsel Ken nerh Starr will testify in 
after graduation. 
NOVEMBER

today's presidential impeachment 
.... 

hearings. News • 7 
Scene• 10-11 
18., 1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's VOL XXXII NO. 55 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Study: ND rising among research universities 
By TOM ENRIGHT book by Johns llopkins University Press N,·w,Wri1,·r titlml, "Tlrn Hise of American HcsMrch Univnrsities." 
Notr1• llam1• isstwd its Jir:,;t Bachelor of' The author:,; lauded Notro Damo for dis­SriP111·1• ch!gr<•P in 18<,!i, b11t Urn iss1w of' playing ''Homan C:athnlic exc11llPnce in an nis1·arrh -1•spPrially in tlw sci1mcns ~ American acadmnic culturn historically hardly S<'l'llls a st>lling point to today's dominated by Protestant elites." lll'W slUd!'lltS. When compared in a srparatt1 catngory 
But sollll' out sick tlw Univnrsity am tak­to lO similar schools like Dartmouth, Rice ing nolirt• or Nolrn l>airw's incn,asing and c;eorg<:town, Notre Dame ranked sec­att1~111.ion to irnprnving its ovnrall gradual(' ond has11d on its research in scir.nco, rPs«·atTh program and its r1•<:e11L irnlivid­social scionco and arts and humanities lt,ll st:iPlll.ilir discovm•ins. Ovor tlw past dPpartments. two yPars, both l'adors havn lwlpPd tlw "I think it's a line balance we have sl'hool gain prl'sligP. here," said Thomas Sweeney, assistant 
Notn• llallH' rankPd sixth out of' 11 ris­vice prnsidrnt for Hesearch. 
ing prival1• n•sparch universitins in a 1997 Swemrny said that while Nntre Dame does hav11 a small graduate program, its goal is for quality of ra·culty and resnarch over quantity of programs. 
"If wc'ro going to do it, we're going to do it pro1wrly," Im said of Notre Dame's research expansion. 
Swemrny said this year Notre Dame will receive about $3~ million from outside sponsnrs for various research programs throughout the University. The exact fig­ure for University research spnncling was unavailabh~. 

Despite gradual increases in research funding at the University, declining l'oder­al government funding does present a problem !'or some faculty, according to research. The biology department has neering research has most recently .lames Merz, vice president of Graduate added eight new faculty members over drawn acclaim from outside sources such Studies and Hesearch. the past two years who engage in both as the Science Coalition in its report to 
"We have targeted peer universities teaching and research. Congress earlier this year tilled "Creal that we'd like to catch up with," Merz Other areas like psychology have espe­Advances in Scientific Discovery." The said, citing Princeton, Duke and cially notable programs of research with­report evaluated notable breakthroughs Vanderbilt as competitors in the field. in them, said Merz, who added that Notre in universities over the past 50 years and 
"We're relatively young in the research Dame is trying to build upon pockets of listed three recent research discoveries business," said Merz. "We don't have the excellence that already exist. from Notrn Dame among the 162 brnak­facili.~ies that many other campuses He said Notre Dame must compete with throughs examined. have. larger public universities and those with Among the notod advances was a tech­
Merz noted that several Notre Dame medical schools, factors that tend to pro­nique for introducing DNA into the departmcnl'>, including philosophy, theol­vide these institutions with increased genome of the Aedes aegypti mosquito led Jose Chaverri works at Galvin Wednesday ogy, chemical engineering and the biolog­funding and facilities for science research by Notre Dame profnssor of' biological sci-afternoon. Graduate research is on the rise ical sciences, have drawn national recog­in particular. at Notre Dame, especially in the sciences. nition in previous years for their stridns in Notre Dame's own science and engi-see RESEARCH / page 4 



Roche addresses Core, A&L funding 
By ERICA THESING committee lookod into the cur­News Writer ricu I um of the course and made a unanimous recom~ 
Despite rumors to the con­mendation to t•dnvigoratc th~ trary. Core is Imm to stay. snid program. The change may Mllrk Hochr, dean of' the inc.lude a. revised reading list College of Arts und Letters and expnrimental soctiuns that \N1•d1wsday 
dllviatn from the traditional 11ight during focus on God, self, society and 1m open nature. forum with Roche also said he would students of like to see morA full-time fac­th(1 collogo. ulty membt. rs teaching Core, 
The ques­as oppos<~d to graduate stu­tion -and• dents or adjunct professors as answer ses-has become the prnctice. sion was Roche Rocho expla.inod that this is aim Pd nt challenging for a variety of addressing students' concerns, reasons, including a lack of one of which was the rumored funding in the College ol' Arts tPrminntion of the sophomore and L0ttcrs. litl)rature Slm1inar, tho Corn In order to attract more full­courso. time professors as Core 
"I have no intnntion of Plimi­instructors, the commitle<~ roi:~ nating the Core coursu," Boche ommended experimental sec; said. ''Wo're not eliminating it. tions that focus on angles such Not in the least.·• 
Instead, Hoche explained, a 
see ROCHE/ page. 6 

'I'll take "Fighting Irish" for $500, Alex ... ' 
ND students play online Jeopardy! 
By MIKE ROMANCHEK 
"I played for six News Writer weeks, until I quali­fied," said Wilkerson. 
While their football I le believes the key to team is 10th in the AP success in College r:inkings, somn Notrn .Joopardy! Online is to Uame students have "bet a lot during Daily narncd a fourth place Doubles and Final ranking among top 25 .Joopardy." AP ranknd schools in C:ollflge Jeopardy! Online. Many of the best scores exceed $100,000, and 
Over :100 Notre Dame students have participat­in order to be competitive, contestants must ed in the College Jeopardy! Online tournament at wager as much as possible to reach scorns of Urn Sony Station Web site. For the past 10 weeks, that magnitude. Domcrs have played almost 900 games of Andy Wagcmaker, a Fisher llall sophomore, Jeopardy! in an attempt to win prizes ranging has also qualified for the semifinal round. from CDs to a dorm room lilled with Sony prod­''I've played mayb1\ thre11 or four times this ucts. year," Wagemaker said. lie plans to compote in 
The tournament consists of a 10-week qualifi­the somilinals during the wonk of Doc. 7. cation round followed by sc,rnifinals and finals Students are allowed only five gamns per week ronnds that last a week uach. The qualification during each round. The average of a stud11nt's round ends Monday, and it is not too late to bnst throe games are compiled and comparml to make tlw semifinal round. ovnr 70,000 other contnstants'. The top scorn:,; in 
"If your scores are great this week you can each region -western, cent.ral and eastern ­make it straight into the semifinals," said Caren advance to the Sllmilinals. Piela of Sony Online Entertainment. Notre Damo is ranked 42nd overall in tho cm1­
Many l\'otrn Dame students havn already quali­tral region. Tho Irish trail Collngn Jnopardy! licd for the semifinals. Online powerhouses such as Obnrlin College, 
Adrian Wilkerson, Knott Jlall junior, has lin­Sa.int Charles County Community Collngo and ished in the top 10 twice during weekly competi­Watkins Institute College of Art and Design. tion and subsequently qualified for the semifi­
nals. see JEOPARDY!/ page 4 

page 2 
¦ iNSIOE COLUMN 


For seniors, this is it 
Two days from now, most of us will walk into Notre Dame Stadium for our 24th and final Irish home game as undergraduate students. 
Sure. we'll all probably be back in the near 
future and some of us may just take ND up on the offer of two or three more years of season tickets in exchange for another $100,000. 
But it won't be the same. Ultimately, Saturday is IT. No matter when you come back or 


who you come back with  Brian Reinthaler  
or what game you're  Managing Fdiror  
coming back to see, it's  
never going be the same.  

So, I have a simple suggestion to make. It may be something you haven't done for a while and you may already be preparing reasons why you will be unable to do it this week, but give me a moment to persuade you. 
Go to the pep rally on Friday night. 
It may not seem like a big deal right now, but someday, when you look back on your time here. it is likely that you will have at least one great pep rally memory. Whether it was the Ohio State home game sophomore year, USC freshman year, your first one, your only one, or your LAST one. something will make you wish you could do it all again. 
And there are plenty of reasons to go: 
• 
This game has the potential to be the biggest home victory of our four years. With wins in the next two games, the team will clinch its best overall record since 1993 (when ND finished with the No. 2 ranking in the country). And not even that team went undefeated at home. A win over LSU makes the 1998 squad the first Irish team to accomplish that feat since 1989. 

• 
LSU got two shots at our Irish last year and both of them were played in Louisiana. Now they have to play in our stadium under our con­ditions (snow has been predicted for Friday night, really). It's time for us to show LSU what real football tradition is all about. Not only will we stay for the entire game, but we will show them we're ready the night before. 

• 
Rumors are circulating that Bob Davie may have actually responded to Gwyneth Murray­Nolan's much needed letter to the editor from the Nov. 2 edition of The Observer. Word has it that Notre Dame's recently dethroned rushing king, Allen Pinckett, will be saying a few words in the JACC on Friday night. · 

• 
There's going to be a dinner at Senior Bar from 4:15 p.m. until 15 minutes before the rally. So for those of you that can't imagine spending a full hour on a football Friday without a beer i.n your hand, don't worry -you won't have to. Let's face it, this is about the closest to "Liquid Lunch» as you're going to get. 


This team has been through a lot in the last four years, but they have persevered. Because of their efforts over the last 10 1/2 months, they now have a chance to give us all a memory that we will never forget. 
So, while you still can, go to one more rally as a student. Bring as many people as you can and show your appreciation for the guys you have been cheering for over the last four years. 
Instead ofsitting around tomorrow afternoon, get out to Senior Bar, grab some free food and a little liquid refreshment and prepare to scream your head off at a pep rally one last time. 
For those of us who are now seniors, this weekend is indeed it. Let's not lot it pass us by. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Michelle Krupa  Loubel Cruz  
Tom Enright  Graphics  
Maggie Tinucci  Cri~tin Manary  
Sports  Production  
Marr Mulherin  Noah Amsradter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Job Turner  

The Observer (US rs 599 2-4000) L published Monday through r,;J,y ex:cept during ~xJm and va.c:uioo perjods. The Observer ii.; a member of the Associated Press. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 
The Observer• INSIDE Thursday, November 18, 1998 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Harvard professor faces accusations of falsified research 
CAMBRJOGE, Mass. Harvard Medical School Professor 
M. Judah Folkman was the subject of much media fanfare in May, when his groundbreaking cancer research on mice was touted as paving the way to a cure for cancer. 
But now Folkman, who is Andrus professor of Pediatric Surgery, is back in the spotlight and defending his honor as the race to use his tech­nique in human trials has hit a snag. 
The National Cancer Institute (NC[) said in a statement in May that it would make research on these com­pounds a high priority, but so far it has been unsuccessful in replicating Folkman's results in similar studies. 
The NCI's concerns were reported in an article in The Wafl Street Journal last Thursday. 
Folkman dismissed the criticism and stood by his results. In a May article in The New York 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Study finds college smoking on rise 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
Smoking is one habit college students are not kicking, according to a new study published in today's issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association. Two surveys, conducted by the Harvard School of Public Health in 1993 and 1997, found that cigarette smoking among college stu­dents across the nation increased by 28 percent within that time. Of the 14,251 students surveyed at 116 four-year col­leges last year, 28 percent had smoked at least once within the previous month compared with only 22 percent in 1993. Harvard Medicine Prof. Nancy Rigotti, co-author of the study, said the results are surprising because the med­ical community generally has assumed that college stu­dents, who are more educated and more wealthy than the general population, were less affected by the pressure to smoke. "Traditionally, we think of college students as resistant to smoking" Rigotti said. 
¦ UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Natural-gas powered bus unveiled 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
UC Berkeley officials unveiled yesterday the first bus in the world to be powered by a new, more efficient natural-gas technology aimed at eliminating environmentally hazardous diesel emissions. The Campus Conductor 92, the newly refit­ted, environmentally friendly shuttle-bus, embarked on its maiden voyage around the campus yesterday afternoon. "The long-term significance of this achievement is that we now have clean air technology which offers the same perfor­mance as diesel engines," said Nadesan Permaul, UC Berkeley's transportation director. Developed with technolo­gy from Westport Innovations Inc. and the University of British Columbia in Vancouver, Canada, the refitted passen­ger bus is the first of its kind in the world. "I know that we've been improving the transportation for a few years now with compressed natural gas and electric technology," said Priscilla Kalugdam, marketing coordinator. 
• Sourn BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
. ; Thursday  ~  ,·-:·\:~;!~~i:tdii'ik :·i\>(:}:\i/:,.;,xs:o :J21 ~  
Friday  ~  39 26  
Saturday  ~45 31  
Sunday  ~  54 37  
)  
Monday  ·-1~  58 37  
i ~~r,..,'\.,· .,,  __ . _. ,.,  ....  ;  ,..._,.,  

4,Q,~A~Q n ~ Ll 
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries Snow !ce Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 'VIB Associait?d Press Gr,,pt11csNe1 

In his experiments, Folkman used a technique that cuts off a tumor's blood supply by inhibiting the growth of blood vessels that serve it. 
He also reported finding two pro­teins, angiostatin and endostatin, that stop blood vessel growth in mice ­thus starving the cancer -without any obsP.rved side effects. 
As is common practice with such 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeathel" forecast for noon.Thursday, Nov. 19. Lires separate hig, temperature zores for the day. 
FRONTS; 

~ 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pr11ssure; 
® (D m~ 
High Low ShQWet& Rain 
V ,a AssodBled Pf'85S 
Atlanta 65 49 Baltimore 57 34 Chicago 49 42 Columbus 60 46 
¦ STANFORD UNIVERSITY Researchers discover HIV mutation 
STANFORD, Calif. 

A Stanford research team has found a rare mutation in HIV that allows it to resist multiple drugs. Mark Winters, who has a master's in biology from Stanford, led the research team whose findings were published this week in the Journal of Clinical Investigation. "Now we have data that says you can add two amino acids to the lvirus}, and not only will it still be functional, it will no longer be sup­pressed by the drugs that regularly slow it down," Winters said. Many drugs used to suppress HIV, the virus that caus­es AIDS, work by interfering with an enzyme -the "machine" of the virus -made of amino acid building blocks. However, HIV is notorious for its ability to develop mutations that allow it to evade the effects of these drugs. The new version of the virus, identified by Winters' team, is the first one in which building blocks have been added to one of the virus's enzymes. 
¦ NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Students suffer from Internet addiction 
EVANSTON. Ill. 

Surfing the Net can be useful for class or just plain fun, but Internet addiction is a growing concern, especially on college campuses. Bert Epstein, staff therapist for Oregon State University's counseling and psychological services, said he considers college students the most likely victims of Internet addiction. "Because of the fact that computers are so large in numbers on college campuses, and the students are required to be using them for class, it's very easy to switch from research to the Internet," Epstein said. Epstein said the problem is difficult for some students to acknowl­edge. "Students come in for some other problem, and only after discussing it at length do they realize the effects of their overly substantial Internet use," he said. Epstein said he has encountered studenl5 who lose touch with their fam­ily and friends, encounter significant drops in grades or even develop eye strains and headaches. 
.. rnm o~~ 
Twstorms F=lurriea Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 68 54 Miami 84 74 Honolulu 85 73 New York 54 41 Indianapolis 56 45 Phoenix 76 50 Los Angeles 77 54 St. Louis 53 46 
landmark discoveries. other researchers have begun their own experiments to corroborate Folkman's data and refine the tech­nique. 
So far, however, his results have been not been duplicated in full. 
"To date, NCI studies using either the mouse or human forms of endo­statin have not produced the marked regression of these tumors in mice that Folkman's laboratory has report­ed," the NCI said in a press release. 
But in a press release responding to the NCI, Folkman remained optimistic that his _results would eventually be corroborated. 
"This is not surprising, because in the past it has usually taken at least two or more years before such reports appear," he said. 
Whnn transferring techniques between laboratories, a "learning period" is standard, he said. 

·-~----1 
Thmsday, November 19, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 



Senate asks for increase in 24-hour dorm access 


By TIM LOGAN 
Assistant News Editor 
The Stucfonl Sr.nato Wednesday night asked the administration to incrcaso accoss to those dorms that lock their doors 24 hours a day. 
Mcmbcrs unanimously passf1d a reso­lution calling for a change in the stu­chmt access JI) system Lo allow all stu­donts access lo all dorms that currnntly uso the system. rather than just the rnsi<lnnts of thosP halls. 
"Wn want to try to mako it easicr for poopln to comc1 and go bctwoen dorms." said lloward senator Flizabnth Hompl'. "This makes il bctlnr for gen­der rdations." 
Ono of the motivating !'actors hchind lhis rnsolution. which was res,~arched by the senate's (;ender Hnlations com­mitlce for s.evcral wocks, is the incon­s isLo ne ios botwcon many dorms n•garding accflss. 
Many men's uorms am left unlocknd 11m1rly all the time, while there arc wom<1n's residence halls, such as Pangborn, to which non-residents are denied access 24 hours a day. 
"We're trying to help out Pangborn and holp out the other dorms that arc locknd 24 hours," Hornpfsaid. 
Lnder the proposal, all students would have m:ccss during non-pariP.tal 
hours to the seven dorms which cur­rently have access systems that utiltze student ID rnrds. As these systenTs are installed in more dorms. that number would grow. 
Thn Univnrsity intnnds to put evnry dorm on student access ID systems within the next six years. according to Hompf. 
A major concern voiced about this action regarded safety. Any student would be able to access any residence hall during non-parietals hours unrler this system, and thnl't was mcntionml as a potential problem. 
"It's only going to be students who arc allowed access, not the general public," Hompf said, noting that shn had discussed the matter with Bill Kirk, assistant vice president l'nr Residence Lifr.. "Most of security's concerns were people coming from off campus." 
Zahm senator Spencer Stefko nrnn­tioncd that the potential benefits of this move outweighed thC1 slightly increased possibility of thflft. 
"The quostion is, 'Is irnprovtid grndrr relations worth a little bit of safety for a few dorms?'" he said. 
In other senate news: 
• The senate passed a resolution sup­porting the reinstatement of llall Judicial Boards and hall constitutions. projects on which tlrn Student Union Judicial Council has bnnn working oxtonsivcly this term. 
Tho resolution called f'or all resi­dence h1tlls to rnview, and rewrite if nocossary, thnir constitutions by tlrn end of' this scmoster. Some dorms do not havn a governing clocunrnnt at all. and others have not revisPCI theirs l'or many years. 
llall Judicial Boards, which do not oporato in at !Past half of rosid1mc1• halls. according to Bompf, run r.lec­tions in dorms and am intnndcd to handlo minor disciplinary cases, which would othcrwisn bt! sont to the 0flicn of' Hesidl'nc1\ Life. That oflic1i is at times overloaded by casns which could bn handled morn elTnctivoly within tho dorm, according to Bompf', and sup­ports the campaign to reinstall~ hall judicial boards. 
• 
Garott Skiba was approvod as tlw noxt coordinator of Tho Shirt Projoct. This was thH sncond limn Skiha's nanrn has come up for approval. lie was rejectml two wonks ago b1icaus11 thorn wcrn concerns that tlrn soloction process was not op1m enough. 

• 
McGlinn snnator Jill Esenwnin and lloward senator Elizabeth Hompf both aT)nouncocl that they will be lnaviug tho senatn at the end ol' this snnrnstnr. They am both going abroad, and replacements will bn 11l11ctod shortly. 




Walicki to accept history prize 

the Great to the Russian Revolution of 1917, will deliver a lecture on Nov. 24, at the residence of 
Andrzej Walicki, O'Neill Family Professor of his­the president of' the Italian Senate on "Th11 tory at Notre Dame, will receiver the International Slavonic World Between Hevolution and Balzan Foundation Award for history Mon., Nov. Evolution." 23, in a ceremony at the residence of the presi­The Balzan Foundation's announcement of the dent ofltaly. award said yYalicki's "work can bo plact~d on tlrn 
Like the Nobel Prize, the Balzan Award is highest level among all the research dodicatnd to international in character and includes a signifi. the philosophic and political thought of those soci­eantmonetary prize.. Createdin\1956,theBalza.n.. eties in which tho di,bate between Libornlism and Foundation se<~ks· to foster ona ''.worldwide .level, Marxism took on particular importance in the la.<;t culture and science,toutstandirig humanitarian · century, a debate which is still taking place in thfl causes, and peace and brotherhood among peo­present." plefi, regardless ofnationality, race or creed." A 1957 graduate of the University of Warsaw, 
Walicki, who is being honored for his study of Walicki is known internationally for his work in the Slavonic world from the reign of Catherine Russian and Polish intellectual history. 



CLASS OF '99 
SHAKE UP YOUR USUAL THURSDAY NIGHT SCENE AND HEAD TO... 
ALUMNI-SENIOR CLUB 

"ONE LAST CALL FOR FOOTBALL" PARTY 
Thursday, NOV. 19, 10pm rtla 
we have a problem'' 



.. 
Thursday, November 19, 1998

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Research 
continued from page 1 
cnccs, Prank Collins. The procedure may onfl day allow scientists to genetically prevent mosquitoes from currying diseases like dengue. yellow fever and malaria. • 
Bill Spencer, professor of civil engineering and geological sciences, Michael Sain, Frank M. Preimann professor of electrical engineering, and other rnsearchers at Notre Dame's Earthquake Engineering Laboratory developed a fluid shock absorber that cushions buildings during earth­quakes. 
Gary Lamberti, associate professor of biological sciences, also received recognition for his research into the Eurasian rul'fe which has moved into Western Lake Superior and is competing with local fish species like lhc yellow perch. 
Science research projects like these carry sponsors such as the National Institutes of Health, the World Health Organization and the National Sci<'nce Foundation. 
The Science Coalition is focusing on several of Notre Dame's science and Engineering breakthroughs on its Web site through Saturday, available at http://www.srience­coalition.org. 

THE BEJGER MANSION INN 
MICHIANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! 
Voted best entree "Taste ofMichiana", 1998. Big city dining with small town atmosphere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservations accepted. 
We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 
317 LINCOLNWAY EAST* MISHAWAKA* INDIANA 255-3939 
Risi1"9 T"(esecivch Univevsities of the Pl"ivate Secto,• 
1. 
Brandeis 

2. 
Rochester 

3. 
Washington University 

4. 
Carnegie Mellon 

5. 
Vanderbilt 

6. 
Notre Dame 

7. 
Rice 

8. 
Dartmouth 

9. 
Tufts 

10. 
Tulane 





Jeopardy! 
continued from page 1 
Despite the low regional rank­ing, Notre Dame students still have the opportunity to put the Irish on top. 
"There's definitely not only a chance to impact the national rankings f'or your school but there's also an opportunity for you personally to get to the semifinals and compete for that dorm room full of Sony prod­ucts," Piela said. 
Sony Online is planning to put the Dating Game Online to join 
All Fired Up About ND Football? 
Come to the 

LSU BONFIRE 
Thursday, November 19 7-9 pm Holy Cross Field (between the lakes) 

Enjoy hot chocolate and roasted marshmallows 
Featuring: players, coaches, speakers & performers 
Sponsored by Student Government: Putting Students First 
College Jeopardy!. Wheel of Portune, Multi-player Jeopardy, Multi-Player Wheel of Fortune and original Jeopardy!. 
As for Wilkerson, ho plans to prepare for the semifinals as if it were a qualification round. 
"I catch Jeopardy! when it's on and shout answers at the TV," he said. 
Students interested in boost­ing Notre Dame's regional ranking for College .Jeopardy! Online or who would like a chance to win a room full of Sony products can contact the Sony Station Web site at 
www.station.sony.com. 



A look Michiana 


Eva Sanchez i, alum who serves as a member ofthe B Healthy Com tnity Initi ive. She is also a member ofthe Hispa, ·c Chamber the Hispanic A umni Asso ·iation ofNotre Dame. Currently she ·. employed by Amistad and b 
PRESENTS A LECTURE 
H"spanic and the Hoosie t e Mexican American Co 
ith an emphasis on Hi spa 
BY 




VA SANCHEZ 
THURSDAY, 11/19/98 COBA Room #161 3:45 to 5:00 p.m. 
unity 1n Business 
ctorsfor Commerce and a Casa de 


------~----------------~--.--­
f·;:< . • . 
'\'_1·... r.
.,:."-.~~•/

-:~:~.:~.:}<: ,·. :, '._.,
_t-;_:-,_::J;•a:· __ ­


t10....11---••_
,. ' ~-· .
' 
...... ~ ,.:,.

:-~ . '
. . 
Thmsday, November 19, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
:·"-7S

¦ ¦ TURl<EY 
Berlin to rebl)ild Olympic
stadium 

Bl<'.Bl.11\ 
lkrlin's crumbling Olympic stadium. huilt. hy thP Nazis for tlw I 1J'.H1 c;amns, will Im rPstort'd and turrwtl into a sLalH-of"-t.111•-arL multi-purpllsl' arPrla and a ()lltPntial sill' for 1111' 200(1 World Cup. 1•:slimatn; o!' tlw. cost of' Uw projcrL p11blish1,d ycstmdny in lforlin IIPWSJHlflPl'S, rangP !'rum $270 million to $420 million. l'lans call for 111ovablt> hl«iadwrs to f'llahl1• SPnl.ing rapacity to Ill' incrcasnd at will. c;Nmnny is hiclcling to stagi, tho 2006 World Cup SO('('.('f lOlll'IHlllWJ1t, a11d snvnral or 1tw rountry's hig stadiums ncPd PXtPnsiv,1 owrhauls. Ttw B,irlin st.adi11111 is list1,d as a historic· mo1111111Pnt. Whil1• llillnr hopNI thn 
stadium would providP a grand stagi> f'or 
showcasing 11111 Nazi idoology of' whiW rncial snpr,.inm·y, Anwrican trud; star .Jnssl' Owt>ns rnad1· a 111orkny of Lill' Nazi thPoric1s by sw,•1•ping tlw spri11t a11d lln1g-_jumµ gold nwdals llwrP. 
Suspect admits to killing 
young boy 

VISTA, Calif. 
A murder s11s1wct stunrwd a parkPd court­room y1!SLPruay wl11111 lw confossPd: 'Tm guilty. I did it. I did it. I killed him. I killPd the li!tlP hoy." Brandon Wilson. 20. a drif'lnr from Wisrnn~in, adrnittNI to tlw slashing death of a 'J-yriar-olci boy in a public rnstroorn. Mattlww CPrrhi, IJ. ol' Orovilln. was killed Saturday AsSOCIATED PRESS sible act" for moving to top­Kurdish rebel leader Ocalan. the leader of tlwnight inside a rnstroom at Oceanside I!arbor. 
ple the government. Abdullah Ocalan. He was Kurdistan Workers Party orabout 40 miles north of San Dingo, while bis ANKARA Parliamentary proceedings arrested in Rome, but Italy PKK, has asked Italy foraunt waitrrl for him outsidn thr door. llis nnck Turkey's government will bngin Friday and a final vote appears unlikely to grant political asylum. Ile said he was slashed. /\t Wilson's arrnignrmmt yestn­probably collapse next ·week is expected next Wednesday. Turkey's request for extradi­has renounced tnrrorism1lay, prosncutor David Hubin said Wilson con­when it faces no-confidence The opposition accuses tion. and is seeking to enlistfossr,d lo policP that his intnnl was "to go on votes prompted by an orga­Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz "While this country is wag­European support in startingkilling until lw was stoppml." That's when nized crime scandal, the of having ties to organized ing a serious struggle negotiations with Turkey.
Wilson blurtnd out mattnr-ol'-l'actly that ho 
deputy prime minister said crime and tampering with abroad, it is_ in no one's The l'KK has been at war
had kill,·d tlrn hoy, starring intently l'or a 
yesterday. the privatization of a state interest to the pull the chair since 1984 with the Turkish
m1JJminl at tlw bank of photographnrs lining 
Deputy Premier Bulent bank. lie has denied the out from under the govern­army in southeastnrn 
01w wall oftlw courtroom. 
Ecevit told a meeting of his charges. ment," the daily newspaper Turkey, where the rebels 
Democratic Left Party that If the government falls, Milliyet's columnist Hasan are f'igh ting for Kurdish
U.S. popl!lation expected to 
chances of survival for the parties will have 45 days to Pulur wrote yesterday. autonomy. The conllict has 
mcrease 

minority coalition govern­try to set up another coali­Ocalan is wanted on ter­killed about 37,000 people. mnnt, which faces three no­tion. If they fail, the presi­rorist charges in Turkey, Turkey does not rncognizeWASHINGTON 
confid c n ce votes in dent could appoint a care­where he is on trial in the Kurds as an official 
By 2050, tlw Unit<'<l States population will Parliament, are slim. taker government to rule absentia for crimes punish­minority and has always grow to :194 million. some 50 percent morn "This government will until the April 18 elections. able by death. Italian law rnfusnd to negotiate with 
than at prnsenl, the Census Bttrnau projects in 
probably fall next week," The crisis comes as forbids extraditing anyone to them. Bdween 12 and 15 a rww population profile. And this population said Ecevit, accusing opposi­Turkey is waging a diplo­a county where they could million Kurds live in Turk1iy.
will hn oldt\r, on avnrag11, than now and will 
tion parties of an "irrespon-matic war with lttily over face execution. 
contain a larg11r shan· or minorities. Tim ddcrly arn Pxprn:lod lo double thoir sham ol' tlu• population in morn than onn-third of' the statl!s, and the fast11st rates or growth for minorities am PXJWctnd l'or Hispanic. Asian 
Catholic church calls for action amt l'adfk lslandm· populations. California is 11x1wctPd lo conlintw rapid growth, adding 
AsSOCIATED PRE',SS statement proves the Catholic Church the nation's more than 200 Catholic
l7.7 million people bntwrwn 1995 and 2025, "remains lhe last great voice of the colleges and uniwrsities. Critics, how­tilt' ag<'ncy said. Tnxas is nxpncted to grow by 
WASHINGTON unborn." ever, believe they could erode acade­
8.4£1 million in that period and Florida will The nation's Catholic bishops But opponents fear damaging reper­mic freedom. 
add (,.54 million. 
approved a statement yesterday urg­cussions. Those standards would require 
ing voters to choose anti-abortion "Any statement that tells people presidents of Catholic colleges to take 
candidates and Cnth.olic officials to how to vote will be ill-received by an oath nf fidelity to the church and
Market Watch: 11 18 

take action against abortion. · Catholic and non-Cntholic alike." said require theologians t.o get permission It is not sufficient.to oppose abortion Bishop Howftrd J. Hubbard of Alliany, to teach from local bishops. Catholic
!Jow 
AMEX: 

personally without ta.king s-teps to N.Y. univcrsitins would bn urged to rocruit 
667,85 

stdp it, according to the suil.oment, "If a Catholic officeholder changes for their faculties only ·•faithful
JONES +D.% ,, \.lpi 
adopted on a 217 to 30 vote by tlrn his position on lifo issues of abortion Catholics."
1241 National Conference of Catholic or tho death penalty he or she could Bishop Allen Vigneron, auxiliary
Nas<la,,r 
1897.44 

Bishops. well be accused by political opponents bishop of Detroit, called the norms "a NYSE: 
, 18.')2 

Catholic officials should focus on of caving in to the dictates of the solid Jll(~chnnlsrn for assuring Catholic 
Dowm
%.\.46 

social issues such as poverty, housing church, a tool of the bishops," identity of institutions."
1314
2.44 

and health care, they said. But being Hubbard said. ''We should trust peo­But Bishop John Honch. former 
S&I' 500: 

uright" on those issues "can never ple to cast their votes." archbishop of' St. Paul-Minneapolis,
1144.48 

Composi1c 
excuse a wrong choice regarding The bishdps amended the statement said ho worrhis thny "may bo a 
t 'i. IC, 

9ff 
Volume: 
direct u.tta{'ks on innocent human tn light of the recent murder of a New deprnssant to the quality of that dia­
+54.83 701,000,000 
lifo.'' York doctor who performed abortions logue.''
VOLUME LEADERS 

Tho statement, developed by seven to s~w that "those who would claim to And Bishop Raymond Boland of 

IH &:I K  I l,AIN  l'Blf'J  of the eight U.S. cardinals, also snys  promotn the causn of llfo through vio­ Kansas City, Mo., fears thn Janguago  
'-lt•f\t'lljlt' l'\llll'!(h!hf\l'  NSCI' .\l>l  'ht ( "'"''' •i.fll) +l l l l  + rn ounu +H,.17~(l  t'1.2S K.17~  llrnl officials who "ignore church  lence contradict the gospel at its  is too vague. "What exactly do wt,  
u,, 11 .\)'\lf•rn, [">t•II t !llll)'li!l'f  t \t (l 1>111  +h.00 -OrtH  +-U2!iCl -n HiS  72.M7o b.LK7~  teaching on  the inviolability of the  core."  mean by the word faithful'!" he askPd.  
Nm•l•Uhw lt•l,11r,1\.,\IJ~  ~1)Vi. JIU,!  +H. SO +:'101.1,0()  +J .2SO(J +1J..-ll2!i  lo.112~ ,.!75  human person indirectly collude in  Tho bishops also discussed pro­ "A person who attends mass overy  
lt.nm<.1•rpl;\~~,~~~o. ll!h:lt.,irp  CO~I\ t·,•1 l!A(H INI!"  1-K.b.1 -LH +fl.:HI +1.27  tt.062..\ .[0,,2,1 . \.~tJ2!i tl,.17:.0  .!K..1625 R25 26.Uh2.S I01).tD5  the taking of an innocent lite." Tho RHv. Michael J, Sheehan,  posed new regulations for Catholic education that supporters sa.y will  weekend'! What if they're clivorcud, separated or remarrh~d? Is them a lit­ 
Archbishop of Santa Fe, N.M., said the  load to more consistent teachings at  mus t.ost'?"  


page6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 19, 1998 
tion is traditionally used by department heads while the
Roche Baxter speaks on 1991 encyclical
narrative portion is reserved 

continued from page 1 
as religion and justice or the study of utopias. 
'Tm hoping that through this effort, we'll find more faculty who are interested," hu said. 
Roclrn also noted that the committee looked at student feedback when evaluating the Core course. 
"You are actually grading Core very low," Im told the stu­dents in attendance. "I hear anecdotal evidence that Core is great, and J'd like to see that." 
lfoche explained that Core is not the only Arts and Letters program plagued by a lack of sufficient funding. 
"The College of Arts and Letters has been traditionally under-funded at Notre Dame," he said. "We haven't received our fair share. In some ways that's unfortunate because a small amount of money goes a long way in the College of Arts and Letters." 
Roche said that the money required to hire one professor in the engineering or science departments can fund 20 pro­fessors in Arts and Letters. He attributed this to the difference in cost between opening a new lab for a scientist and purchas­ing a computer and books for a liberal arts professor. 
Roche emphasized that the college is worthy of increased funding, noting that it compris­es half of the University in terms of credits offered and faculty members. 
The dean also addressed affirmative action and ethnic study programs within Arts and Letters. He outlined the col­lege's process for searching for candidates and explained that Notre Dame has a higher per­centage of minorities in its stu­dent body than in its faculty. 
"We don't have enough diver­sity in our faculty." he said. "We don't have enough women in our faculty. We have made some progress in this area but we need to make more." 
Roche said that a high num­ber of Latino students at Notre Dame has spawned a concen­tration in that ethnic studies program. He explained that 10 percent of this year's freshman class is Latino. 
"We have a natural clientele [for Latino studies] partly because of the overlap between Latinos and Catholicism," he said. 
Roche noted that the African­American studies program is not faring as well. 
"It's clr.arly a deficit," he said. "African-American stud­ies hasn't flourished because we haven't had a wealth or African-American scholars at Notre Dame." 
Hoche also spoke on the use of Teacher Course Evaluations in his college. lie explained that there are two components to the TCEs: a quantitative por­tion and a narrative portion. He said that the quantitali\'e por­for professors' personal use. 
"l 'm an advocate of us reviewing those handwritten evaluations. I think they are 
'WE DON'T HAVE 
ENOUGH DIVERSITY IN OUR FACULTY. WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH WOMEN IN OUR FACULIT. WE HAVE MADESOMEPROGRE.5SIN THIS AREA BUT WE NEED TO 
MAKE MORE' 
M1RK ROCIIE 
DEAN OF THE COLLEGE OF 
ARTS AND LET1EHS 

very helpful in understanding what's going on," he said. 
If students fool that their evaluations aren't taken seri­ously, there are steps beyond the TCEs, Roche said. 
"You always have the right to send a letter to the chairper­son," he said. 
Hoche emphasized that department heads want to hear both success stories and sug­gestions from students. 

Playing at Washington Hall 
Reserved Seats -$9 Senior Citizens -$8 All Students -$6 
Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student CenterTicket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Hurricane Mitch Relief Effort 
We.are accepting contributions forrelief ofthe multitudes of Hurricane victims. 
Food & Water 

Water-Drinking, distilled Bl.ack Beans-dried, canned Gatorade Water Purifying Tablets Coffee Corn flour (Masa Harina) Sugar Rice Easy-open canned food milk-powdered, UHT, canned Baby food and formula 
By CHRIS LAWLER 
News Writer 
Pope John Paul ll's 1991 encyclical "Centesimus Annus" highlights the pontiffs political and economic beliefs, arcording 
· to rather Michael Baxter at the final segment of the Knights of Columbus fall ·t 998 lecture series yesterday. "Cent-esimus Annus" rnm­memorates the 100th anniver­sary of "l{erum l\iovarum," a writing of' Pope Leo XIII which began the tradition or Catholic social encyclicals. "Centcsimus Annus" focuses on the breakdown of Communism and the role Catholic social beliefs played in the European political upheavals of 1989. Baxter emphasized several key points in his presentation. "The central problem of our times for Pope John Paul II is atheism," said Baxter. The Pope believes that suppression of family and other basic human associations in the Communist plan are the result of trying to replace (10d with a system. This viewpoint undermines our basic human dignity, said Baxter. Quoting frequently from the 
Items listed are desperatelyneeded. 
*NO GLASS CONTAINERS CANBESHIPPED* 
Donations of Money are Most· Welcome 
Shelter/equipment 
Flashlights with batteries Tarps. tents, plasitc sheeting Sheets & blankets Towels Kitchen utensils Non-breakable drinking glasses & dishes Pots and pans Portable stoves Detergents, Chlorine bleach 
encyclical, Baxter went on to explain that the Pope believes the sweeping fall of Communism in 1989 was the result of the rediscovery of reli­gious roots within Communist cultures. Witnesses to the truth disarmed lhe.ir adversaries through nonviolence. This rediscovery, and the nonviolent revolution which followed, were governed by the grace of God at work in the human heart. 
Baxter went on to explain the Pope's views on economics and politics. 
"Economirs, according to John Paul II, does not consist of an autonomous sphere," he said. "The market, as in all human activity, needs to be mollified and guided by the grace of the Gospel." 
Pope John Paul II does not argue for any particular eco­nomic model, stressed Baxter. Rather, he advocates that mod­e ls be allowed to develop according to cultural influences 
Come Hear Former DePaul University Basketball Coach and Notre Dame Alumnus 
RAY MEYER, '38 
speak on 
"Athletics: From Sportsmanship to Commercialism" 
Thursday, November 19 
7:30 p.m. 
102 DeBartolo Hall 

Ray Meyer spent fony-two ye:1n as head coach at DePaul, achieving a career record ofi24-354 (.671), placing in the NCAA Final Four twice, and winning tbe NIT in l 945. Twice he was named Coach of the Y car by the United States Basketball Writen Association. and twice by the Associated Press. Although retiring as head coach in 1984, Coach Meyer continued his association with DePaul and ih athletic department. He now returns to his own alma mater to speak about the forces which havr changed intercollegiate athletics from a sport to a business. 
ALL ARE WELCOME! 


tlrs¢p..()fFi~it~s•c(u1·..1;¢Joood,.(h.to·ughout campuSin·d 
duxipg dinner & supper, etc. . ' • 
•'1t;< ' /X{;~Q~;ftCl!\::i\1/. . . . .t~~K 


Last Day for Collection isS~turdiy,.~... ·t.1998 . otre Dame, IN 465 56 


First Aid/Toiletries 
Anti-decongestants Anti-diarrhea medication Antipyretics (lowers fevers) Pain relief: aspirin, etc. Disinfectants: alcohol, hydrogen peroxide Ointments: antibacterial, anti­fungal Toiletries Toothpaste & brushes Bug spray (malaria) Powders, lotions, creams Cotton balls Baby powder Disposable syringes Face masks, goggles 
under a system of' values for the common good, especially in regards to dealing with the poor and working class. 
Communism doesn't work because it tries to take the place of God. but democracy can also be corruptod. The current prob­lem America faces, according to Baxter, is that truth is rfotr!r­minecl by the majority, not by values. When this happ1rns, democratic govornmonts become totalitarianism. 
In closing, Baxter suggested a more sincere observation of the Sabbath. By avoiding outside distractions on that day, such as sports, he said, "we can have a clear vision of the rmd to which our lives are ordered, including our economic lives." 
Prior to the lecture, Grand Knight Ben Evans announced that the Knights uf' Columbus lecture series would continue in the spring, leading up to the Jubilne 2000 celebration at the turn of the millennium. 
Tropical weather clothing for adults, children, & babies 
Disposable or cloth diapers Underwear and socks Good shoes for all ages Rubber boots 

Thursday, November l 8, 1998 
The Observer • NEWS page 7
---~------------­
Starr's testimony opens impeachment hearings 
"repcatr.dly usml the machinery 
of gov11rnm1mt and I.he powers 
Wi\SIIINC:TON ol' his office" rt, thwart prosecu­
Making his case al tlw start ol' tors' grand jury investigation 
impeach1111inl hearings, and the Paula Jones lawsuit. lndepmHlr.nt Counsel Kenneth In remarks prepared for Starr says Prnsidr11t Clint()n 
0)0 SOMETHING 
DIFFERENT 
THIS SUMMER~ 
delivery today to the House Judiciarv Committee, Starr also dismissed Democratic sugges­tions he had no right to investi­gate the affair between the president and Monica L11winsky. Obstruction of justice ''is not a private matter," he duclarod. 
A copy of' Starr's testimony was obtained late yesterday by Tlw Associated Press. 
"The evidence further sug­gests that the president, in the course of these efforts, misused his authority and power as µresident andcontravened his duty to faithfully executti Lhe laws. That too is not a private matter," Starr said. 
The prosecutor also disclosed thal his office drafted an impeachment referral to Congress on the original Whitewater allegations last year. but pulled back. The referral related to Clinton's tes­timony that he knew nothing about a fraudulent $300,000 loan. 
The loan was from a federally backed lending company run by former Little Hock, Ark., munic­ipal judge David llale, who tes• tificd that Clinton had encour­aged him to make. 
"In late 1997, we considered whether this evidence justilied a referral to Congress," Starr wrote, "We drafted a report. But we concluded that it would be inconsistent with Urn statu­tory standard because ol' tho difficulty of flstablishing the 
trut~ with i~. sufficient degree of 
confidence. 
Starr said that in addition, "there were still two oul'>land­ing witnesses who might later corroborate. or contradir,t" the allegations that Clinton lied about the loan: former Arkansas Gov . .Jim Guy Tucker and former Whitewater busi­ness partner Susan McDougal. 
Starr's testimony reiterated many of the same allngations, in the same harsh language, that he included in his rnf'crral to Congress in Soptomlrnr, accusing Clinton of 11 impeach­able ol'f'1rnsns. llis tlistimony laid out a litany of cxamplns that Im said show a "misuse of' presidential authority 
occurred." 


CfNf'I~ 10• 
SOCIAL C:ONCERNS 

Summer Service Projects 1999 
* 
8 weeks of service learning * $1 700 tuition scholarship 

* 
Valuable alumni contacts 

* 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 

* 
Over 200 sites across the U.S. and abroad 


•Information meetings: 
Thursday: Nov. 19th  6:30 PM  
Monday:  Nov. 23  6:30 PM  
Tuesday:  DEC. 1  7:00 PM  

Our VOLUNTEER PROGRAM n .·· 
families in New York City or the. Bostoo; 
•Use your sldl!s and't:d 
•Commur.tity living off~ •Hcusing, b0wd, fl.Ug/a 
N 

. e · web 
¦ GREAT BRITAIN 
Blair aims to oust Lords 
Assodaced Press 
LONDON 
They've seen countless monarchs come and go, survived Engla:~d's. l7th-cent11ryci.vU .war and deftly side,s(el)p¢d aboUtlQn,.. d,u.rlng 150 years.of popular democracy. 
Now, Britain's hereditary peers are likely facing their final battle after a millennium or political influence. 
Prime Minister T?ny Blair wantsJo strip the 759.nobles of theiry9~ngrigbt~i:g tgeHouse of 
Lords,·. Britain's. upper chambe1\ as part of' a parliamentary reformprogram. 
But some peers, described by onf:l newspaper as "an elderly but tenacious and highly experi­enced guerrilla f'orce," vow to fight back by clogging up the government's legislative pro-
grant. · . • •.··.·.· ..· .·"'V "I would regard tfiat as my finitlduty and would be proud to go out as a 'football hooli­gan,"' says Earl Onslow, 60, referring to England's notoriously unruly soccer f'ans. The House of Lords, which revises and exam­ines government legislation, was established in the l 1th century. Itis composed of hereditary
• 
lords, who inherited their titles, and life 1mers, 
who are awarded titles tmd may be the only 
members left after reform. 
The peers debate in an ornate, gilded cham­
]ler and have a reputation for courtesy, unlike 
tb9 House of' Commons, where directly ehicttid 
Metnbers of Parliament argue more raucously. 
The rebellious peers sity the Labor Party's plans to abolish their voting rights without proposing an alternative threatens Britain's constitutional balance between the govern­ment's executive and legislative branches, 
"Doing away with us without qualification won't do," said Lord Mottistone, 78. "In the last resort. we may fight all sorts of rearguard actions, slow things down, ruin government legislation, because we will fight this hard." 
Reformers counter that it's indefensible that bereditary lords, who overwhelmingly support the opposition Conservative Party, can vote in Parliament on the basis of their ancestry. 
"I think the hereditary principle has led to a very narrow social group in the Lords, almost exclusively male and overwhelmingly Tory," said Lord Ponsonby, one ot' only 16 Labor-sup­porting hernditary peers. 


share in our work with poor 
ngn~~ones 
•,·.rsonal ~~owth l included 
Pedicure 

Pedicure 
e)2s9.soso 

Certificate good towards any Manicure & Pedicure Not mlid for rnsh, ca1111ot be 11sedJi1r n•tai/. Must present certificate to receive disco1111t (certain restrictio11.1· apply) . 
... 

November 19th 10-7 • 20th 9-8 • 21st 8-1:30 
Save up to 75% 
on many name brands! 
3DAVS ONLY 
AT THE LOGAN CENTER 
Blowout

Name Brand Clothing....................... Su~~f!~ed .............. . 
Price Tommy Rugby Shirts........................... $92.00 .................. . $29.95 Nautica Crew Sweatshirts...................$49.95 ................. .. $29.95 Polo Sport T-Shirts .............................. $29.95 .................. . $9.95 Reebok Ladies T-Shirts ....................... $14.95 ................... . $4.95 Plus many other items to choose from 
SAVE 
UPTO 
60% 
On selected Notre Dame apparel 

1235 N. Eddy St.• South Bend• 289-4831 • Portions of the proceeds to benefit the Logan Center . 
. 
VIEWPOINT 
OB~ERVER ----------------Thursday, November 19, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NO"IRE DAME OFFICE: P 0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Nocre o~me, !N 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF H~arher Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rri1uhal,r Kyle Carlin 
Ass!STANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKeniie 
NeWS EDITOR ........................Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGLR........................ Bryan Lu CZ VI.WPOIN r EDITOR ..................Eduardo Llull An DeSIGN MANAGER ........................ llrcn Huelac SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lope, SYSTEMS MANAG~R ..................... Michael Brouillet ScENE Eo1Toas............................s.,.~ Dylag CoNTROLLER ..................................... Dav< Rogero 
Kristi Klis:sch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOII. .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pete Cildla l'HoTo EOll'OR ..................... Kevin Dalum 
The Ob~rvt-T i, the in<lepen<lC'J'lt newspaper publir.hai hy tlic ~tudcn,s of the Univi:n.iry of Notre Dame du L:1.i; :md 
Saint Mary's Ulllrgc. 1, dors not ncCCb:iarily r('flccl the policic..'I -oFthl' administration of either institution, The news is 
rcporrcJ 8.5 accurardy and objccdvdy a5 po1i.'1iihlc. Unsign-1:d editorials rcprcsc:nt the opinion of the majority of the 
Editor-in~Chii:f, MJnaging Editor. t\ssistam M.u1aging Ediror and depanmcnl editors. Commentaries, letters .iod columns prescnr the vk-ws otthe ;unhQrs, .i;nd noc necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is .i.vailablc ro .ill 
members of rhe Notre Dame/Saim Mary's eommuntry and ro all readers. The frc:c expression ofvaryin~ opinions ch ro1.1~h lec~rs IS cn~ollragcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
Edicor,in-Chicf 631-4542 Bllsincss Office 631-5313 
Man1ging Edicor/A.«isranr ME 631-4541 Adverri,ing 631-6900/8840 
New,IPl1oto 631-5323 Sys,enis 631-8839 
Sports 631-4543 fax 631-<i927 
Scene/Saint Mary'• 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail V1ewpoinr. J@nd.edu 
Day Editor/Viewpoint 63\-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@dmwin.cc.nd.ed11 
Office Manager/General lnformation (,3 l-7471 New• E-Mail observcr.obsne\vs. l@nd.edu 
¦ FORA MORE Jusr MJD HUMANE YJom..D 
All People Have a Right to Life and to Secure the Basic Necessities ofLife 
Much attention is given to the issues around the right to life. Perhaps most of us on this campus have been asked at one time or another to pray for the right to life, from conception and birth to a natur-
Jim 
Paladino 

al death. In between the beginning and the end of life there are a lot of events which, strung together, also make up what we call life. Is it enough to just be alive? The human spirit has a need to strive for dignity and personal improve­ment, which goes beyond the mere breathing and eating aspects of life. Circumstances, events and crises occur which can alter our personal pursuit of a better life and give challenge to our digni­ty. Our lives are shaped not only by how we respond to our own adversity but also to the plight of others. The U.S. Catholic bishops have given us 10 challenges to help us in fulfilling the responsibility we have to ourselves and others to ensure lives of dignity. One of those challenges, and two recent stories of faithful respons­es, will help me illustrate the point. 
In their 1996 "A Catholic Framework for Economic Life," the U.S. Catholic bish­ops stated in abundantly dear terms: "All people have a right to life and to secure the basic necessities of life (e.g., food, clothing, shelter. education, health care, safe environment, economic security)." 
No waffling on that one. No equivoca­tion. No differentiation between the right to life and the right to the basic necessi­ties. Their examples of the basic necessi­ties leave little wiggle room for us either. 
Recent hurricanes in the Caribbean and Central America have provided ample opportunities to put these principles into practice. This campus has seen the response of numerous individuals giving money and supplies to relief efforts orga­nized by many groups and individuals with personal ties to the affected areas. Gabriella Mossi of the l lesburgh Institute is one of those people with family affected and she has been a driving force in relief efforts from Notre Dame. The campus and Center for Social Concerns have con­nections to recent grads essential to live life with dignity. But often the crises that affect us are less dramatic in how we are exposed to them. Homelessness and poverty in our own country and around the world a!Tect so many individuals and families in a pro­found and dramatic way. The bishops had these people.in mind too. One such per­son I'll call T J. 
1met TJ last week at the CSC. He appeared at the front desk to inquire just how this «Project Warmth" thing works. (Project Warmth is the ND project to col­
lect winter coats and 
in Central America at Farm of the Child (Rob  WHETHER IT'S  distribute them local­ly and nationally to  
Grabowski, Meghan  $75,000 FOR HUR- those in need). It  
Hempleman and Ryan Murphy) and at the  RICANE RELIEF OR THE COAT  seems that TJ needed one of those coats. He  
American Friends Service  OFF YOUR BACK ••• WE ARE  is a guest at the  
(Mary Mccann-Sanchez) who are assisting in the  BEING CHALLENGED TO  Center for the Homeless and at over  
distribution of collected  INCORPORATE SOCIAL JUS­ 300 pounds, he had  
money and supplies. But  TICE INTO OUR EVERYDAY  quite a bit of difficulty  

there are also others who have responded to the LIVFS. challenge of assuring that the basic necessities are provided. 
An ND alum and spouse contacted the Center for Social Concerns with a request last week. It seems that they had a sizable sum at their disposal, which they were considering using for a personal invest­ment. Seeing the devastation of the people in the path of Hurricane Mitch, they made a decision for a much different invest­ment. They have asked that their $75,000 he sent to the rebuilding efforts of their neighbors in Central America. Neighbors they've never met. They ask only that the money is used by those most in need and that others at Notre Dame be urged to also respond at whatever level they can. This is what the U.S. bishops had in mind, I'm sure. 
The dramatic crisis of a hurricane is a blunt reminder to us of people in need ­people who have a right to all that is finding a coat to fit 
him either at the 
Center or through the organizations which they work V\-ith in providing clothing. His current coat was pretty snug and relatively light. Fortunately, the donor who underwrites many of the expenses of Project Warm th, has provided an amount of money which allows us to respond to a few of these spe­cial requests. T J got his coat. But that is not necessarily why I mention his story. 
TJ has gone through hell and back in the last 10 years. He's gone from being a star football player at a Big 10 power­house to being divorced, separated from his young son, penniless, grossly over­weight, alone and on the streets in New York. The last few months have seen him attempt lO regain his dignity. He's getting back on his feet working two jobs, losing weight, saving his money while living at the Center for the Homeless and getting up enough courage to ask for help. That's the part of his story that is compelling. The U.S. bishops' Catholic Framework for Economic Life is centered on human dig­nity. It is, as they oITer in their statement, about how we are working daily in our lives to protect the "life and dignity of the human person, support the family and serve the common good." T J's dignity was still at a pretty low point. He felt com­pelled to apologize for himself and his plight. He wanted to be sure I knew he would pay us back -he didn't want a "handout." Without much thought, I'm embarrassed to say. I rattled off what he could do to pay us back. I used the "slo­gan" of Project Warmth: I told him to share the warmth. T.J then brightened up. He gave life and meaning to the phrase. He asked if he could give his other coat to Project Warmth so someone else could be warm this winter. This too is exactly what the bishops were thinking. 
Whether it's $75,000 for hurricane relief or the coat off your back, whether you major in social work or you take a course which includes a module for link­ing your subject with community-based service learning, we are being challenged to incorporate social justice into our everyday lives. Each of us is asked to give in our own way of our gifts and talents. 
Jim Paladino is an Associate Director at the Center for Social Concerns. To com­ment or to request information about Hurricane Mitch Relief, Project Warmth or to receive a copy of "A Catholic Framework for Economic life" e-mail HYPERL!NK mailto:James.Paladino.1@nd. edu James.Paladino.1@nd.edu. The Center for Social Concerns' column runs euery other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are 
those ofthe author and not necessarily 
those ofThe Obseruer. 

¦ DOONESBURY 
SINC.i/WCltNT 71~§0CI~
'IOU fleAU.YHAV/3. 
HAlleAtWAYS HACJA 5~­
... A /JliGl6NA7W 
6atlT,~PRJCMRl/3S
{!/N{j&R /tT PIii 
7Ht3 COUeCllVJ?iJURl1fiNOfGIN I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
aJR. {78~FROM 7HAT 
AOYSS, H/3 f<tfMIN~ OSWHAT 11/e'PfLIOI( t/Kelr/UP /,Ve/?& &/NI? PRIJNI<. IN7HATIA/AY, H&!3 IN/Jl!iP6N!?A8le 7lJ OUR. 
QJl-7V?E ~A8&TltveNC&.I 
¦ QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'Okay, brain, I don't 
like you and you don't like me. Let's just take this exam so I can get back to killing you with beer.' 
-Homer Simpson 
/1-1'1 

VIEWPOINT 
________________________ page 9 
Thursday, November 19, 1998 -----------------os~ERVER 
¦ UNCLE HALLWAY 
Show Me the Money 
Sox. lies and int11rviews. Throw in Bill Clinton and it's worth $600,000. Y1is. it's of'ficial: Anwrica is the world's most productiv1• tabloid. Lel llrn hidding 
Bob Kerr 

IH'gin. hul don't blink: Monica's cashing in on Slick Willi11. 
On T1msday, Tlw NPw York TimPs n•porlPd that Monica S. Lowiusky has ac1·1~ptPd an intnrviPw with Barbara Wailers of' ABC News, and that she has sigrwd a dPal wilh St. Marlin's Press Lo rP!liasP "Mnnil'a's Storv." WhilP Ms. l.1!winsky will not lw p;id for Lim inter­vi1•w with Ms. Waltms, slrn will receive a $h00,000 advancl' l'or thn book, in addi­tion lo hon us-
1•s for best­sPIIPr ra11k­i11gs. 
Mr. Starr 
brought us 
"Bill's Story": piznt, cigars, phonP ralls 
and oral Sl!X -all in mw. So why down 
tll'Pd 
"Monica's Story'!" For tlw otlwr point of viPw'' Conw on now, this is AmPrica. Thorn's a time and a placu 
for Monica's viPw, and in lll!ISl statl!S yo11 must lw 
IX or olchir for 
admission. 
It's l'lwap, it's old 11nws and il's Pmharrassing, but Barbara W,t l!Prs looks for a bright sidP: "No orn• is giving I:Vts. I.Pwinskyl 
rrPclil for doing this 
i11t1•rvil'W lllll of dl'siri• to 
maintain hPr tTl'dihility a11d 
for turning 
down millions. 
millions. from Fox." 
First of all. what crndibility'? Monica l.1•winsky clainwd shr had a sexual affair with 1!11• President of Uw United Statns. Tlw !'rrsid(\llt admittnd this affair, and provicl1•d lfw world with explicit details. ThPl'I! is absolutely IHI credibility rnr f)itlwr pal'ly i11voh1!d in a consensual, 1:xtramaritnl affair. 
SPcond of' all. wlwrn arn the millions f'rorn 1:ox'? According to Fox nxocuLivns, llwy off1•l'f)<i l.1•winsky less than half' of IH•r $2 million proposal. She rnrused. Walt1•rs makPs il sound us ii' tlw Anwrican public should tltank Lewinsky for sharing lwr privacy al such a modest prirn. Wrong again. 
i\1'.1·1n·dinl{ lo Tlw Nnw York Timi's, I.Pwinsky has hnl'n soPking a publislrnr lo sign a l11craliv1• deal lwtwn,~n $2 mil­lion and$ I!I million. Publisher Judith llq{a n PXplains that, "Most of' the top publishing housns thal could afford a gc11cnn1s advance remained rnluctant to offnr a contract lHH'.ausc of fears that Ms. l.nwinsky had nothing lllft to reveal. par­ticularly afl(W publication of the Starr rnport on the affair and nvents that fol­lowed." 
Americans wanted Clinton in the hot scat. Americans wanlcd to sec the Prnsidont squirm, and squirm he did. We wanted the juice, and Clinton gave us more than we bargained for, but Ms. Walters thinks there is more to the story. She said, "There's a lot not in the record -what this year bas been like for !Ms. Lewinsky!. what it f'elt likr wlwn the Presi<lcn t made his statements, her reac­tion, her views on the various people involved, the jokes." Lot's face it, the kiss has been told, and Monica's feelings are about as exciting as C-Span on Valium. 
Did Monica come forward in the name ofjustice or money'' Justice {or some­thing like ill has been served. America is the laughing stock of the universe, a family has b(wn dissected and everyone involVf)d is more than a liute red in the chePks. Bill has a new curfew. and he's down one necktie. 
The only thing left is money, and all of 
thr. sudd(rn Monica needs to share her "reactions" and "views." As for the "jokes," yes, they were all very funny­end or discus­sion. But Michael O'Mara. one or the publish­ers, insists that, "Monica Lewinsky as a human being is actually completely a different per­son: lively, intelligent, very well-spo­ken, a typical American girl." 
News nash: "typical" American girls hide tlrnir diaries, and there is noth­ing "typical" about sleeping with the President or the United States. 
llowever, Ms. Lnwinskv is "typical" iii one sense. She is facing over-, whelming · legal bills. and her public life is irreparable. 
She's still single, but with a president under thn belt, or on her dress, she'II always be in the spotlight. Like a "typi­cal" American, she's taking the money, but don't be fooled into thinking she has an honorable agimda.. 
Lewinsky's lawyer, Hichard llofstBtter, said, "Moriir,a rcr:eivcd offers of' more than $5 million and turned them dow11.'' It's also rumored that the president did not inhale, Lewinsky is going public, and lrnr lawyr.r is saying that she would rather sell her privacy for $(,00,000 than for $:i million. EithHr shH is unintelli­gent, or hnr best offer was $(,00,000. 
Monica 1.owinsky is selling her sexual !it'll for morrny. but Barbara Walters assuros us, "No Disnoy movie, no show on Lifotimo." Thank you Barbara. 
!Job Kerr's column appears every olher Thursday. Ile is a junior majoring in English 1rith a concentration in Journalism. Tip of the week: if[JOI.I. degrade yourse~f. make it worthwhile. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Observer Cheerleading for the Extreme Left 
One wonders whether the intended cumulative effect of the Tuesday. Nov. 17 edition of your newspaper was to leave the student body brow­beaten by homosexua.lity. I under­stand thatst11qent papfJrs tend to be organs of the'polltkal, philosophical and theological left, but come now. 
Just eyt~-balllng the coverage of gay issues, it appears that Tho Observer granted approximately 100 column Inches in tb,ree articles (and one letter to the t1ditor) over four pages.. Considering that a n~wspaper of1'he Observer'.s.size contains about 550 colurnn inches in its News and Viewpoint sections (where such articles would appear}, the dispro­portionate coverage seems all the more glaring. 
This is especially true if one con• siders that on accepted figures, the gay populatiQntepresents a mere two to three pei'ceritor less of the overall population. The Observer, on the other hand, devotes over 20 per­cent of its available news and Viewpoint space to: 
-An article concerning the speak­out of a celebdtfalumnus. The mind boggles at h()\YM:r.Donahue's (and indeed some of the other speaker's) expertise qualifies him to wax indig­nant (and obfuscatory) about fairly straight-forward issues of Catholic 
.•moral theology and educational phi­losophy; ,.,..... A legitimate article concerning 
the vote over the University's now infamous non-discrimination clause; 
-A truly bizarre editorial piece by a philosophy graduate student. urg­ing acceptance of a mild and impro­vised Catholic moral theology over• run by the boilerplate platitudes of post-modern academic liboralism; and 
-A lotter to the editor from a Carnegie Mellon history professor who declined to accept an offer to apply for a job las oppostld to an offer for a teaching position, as the headline to the article insinuates} but who docidod not becauim wo aro. pardon tho cliche, N.D. One puzzles over how on these facts Notre Dame discriminated against Professor Sandage, and not, as is in fact tho case, Professor Sandage discriminat• ed against Notre Dame. 
The innocuous explanation for this gay overdrive is the coincidental confluence of a celebrity alumnus on campus, an important vote in the Academic Council, the Tuesday air­ing of the PSA and the rectiption of the Sandage letter. The more bla­tantly apparent explanation is the continued effort of The Observer to cheer-lead t'ol' a tiny but powerfully vocal, and ideologir:ally motivated, minority within our University. 
Kristopher Ian Tefft 
Law School '99 November I8, 1998 

Notre Dame Students Apathetic in the Face of Oppression 
l want to barf. Or cry. That's what I thought tonight as I walked into Stepan for the non-discrimination rally. Doing either would have been horribly conspicuous though, given that hardly 200 people were there. 
Two hundred people. What does that say about our student body? Here's a few things: that we're so busy studying to get our degrees that we're allowing students and faculty members to be treated sub­huma.ncly, that we're apathetic to the fact that gays andlesbians are dented fundame.ntal rights as humari beitigs.hefa,that matters or social injustice are of little conse­quence to us-that we don't care. How can we as members of the Notre Dame 'Family' stand indiffer­ently aside as Notre Dame continues to withhold one-of the threo unalienaWe dght~. the pursuit of. happiness, fromits gay and lesbian community? How can we look our­selves in the mirror and, aside from the occasional pimple, he satisfied with what we see: someonf.l who is allowing gays and lesbians to be dis­criminated against in matters of employment and admissions, deny• ing them the capacity to have offi­cial group meetings, denying them the freedom to feel that they can come out or the closet without something as drastic as open dis­crimination occurring. I say allow­ing because inapathy, in railing to act on any b~iliefto the contrary, you are condoning this discrhnina­tion. You ate condoning the injus­tice in this world, You are condon­ing human debasement. 
Now let me ask you this: How many of your hearts beat faster when William Wallace addressed his Scottish warriors? How many of you celt;brat,; Martin Luther King as an idealistic man who brought about important social change due to his passion? How many oryou exultingly cheered when the Berlin Wall foll? 
Justice conquering oppression. That's what these stand for. JJ'you are against injustice, if you can cel­ebrate its downfall in history. why do you accept it now? Why aren't you the Wallaces, the Kings or this University? Why aren't you fighting against tho prejudic(l that surrounds you? Why aren't you raging against discrimination? 
We nef)d to wake up. To care. To recognize all the ludicrous injustictis around us and fix them -or at least try. Nothing was twor accom­plished that was never begun. So let's begin. Take a vow of human morality to abolish Injustice, to fight for this, to demonstrato -to rally for equality. Martin Luthnr King once said, "An injustice anywh1,re is a throat to just.ice ovorywhero." So let's extinguish this discriminating injustice. Together. Our voice is for­rnidabh-1 (think football gamosl whon passionatoly united. So lot us unite, raising our voices against injustice, for the bett.orment of hwnrmity. 
Laurel Paflhouse 
Junior, Walsh Hall November 17, 1998 



O
THE 
page 10 Thursday, November 19, 1998
BSERVER 

-
earn1n 


Students take advantage of teac 

By KRISTI KLITSCH and SARAH DYLAG Scene Editors 
By the time all Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students graduate, they will have spent more than 2,000 hours in the classroom. For some of these students, however, all this time isn't spent just learning -it's also spent teaching. 
There are a variety of undergraduate teaching opportunities for students at both Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Some take the shape of student tutoring programs and others are incorporated into service projects. 
But there is another realm of teaching opportunities that is often overlooked -students teaching other students in a formal class­room setting. 
INTERNATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES 
One such hands-on teaching experience is a program sponsored by the Notre Dame Council on International Business Development's (NDCIBD) Citizens Democracy Corps (CDC) Division. This program offers student teaching opportunities abroad. 
The Citizens Democracy Corps' Schools Program sent 18 students to seven different countries last summer, to teach business and English classes in international universities, according to CDC director Brian McMullen. 
The Schools Program began in 1992 between the NDCIBD and a university in Krakow, Poland, with the hope of stimulating coopera­tion between countries, said McMullen. 
"The goal was to facilitate a cultural exchange and achieve peace through commerce, while also improving education," he explained. 
This relationship spanned to include six other universities world­wide, including universities in Tallinn, Estonia; Parnu, Estonia; Vilnius. Lithuania; Hong Kong, China; Petrazavodsk, Russia and Cotonou, Benin. The Schools Program hopes to expand its focus in the future to universities in southern China, Honduras, Panama and Taiwan. 
"We will definitely be sending people to China next summer." said Megan Burton, expansion chairperson for the CDC. "But we are also looking into getting a program going in South America." 
"We really have expanded from Eastrm1 Europe to the rest of the world," McMullen said. "We are really trying to increase the breadth of our program." 
The 18 students who traveled abroad last year taught an array of courses, including classes in marketing, management, business r.ommunication. ethics, English. advertising, international relations and accounting. 
Lesley Belden. a junior accounting and computer applications major, was one student who traveled abroad last summer. She spent six weeks at the National University of Benin in Cotonou. 
Belden taught business ethics to 150 different collegr, students during her lime in Benin. Although most of the students spoke pro­ficient English, Belden admitted that teaching did muse her some difficulties. 
"Teaching was a lot harder than I thought it would be," she said. "You have so much responsibility and you really have to know what you arc talking about backwards and forwards." 
In addition to learning about lesson plans, curriculum and texts, Belden said that opportunity taught her many cultural lessons as well. 
"I had traveled internationally before, but I had never been to Africa. It was one of the countries that I knew the least about," she said. 
"I really learned to appreciate how much you have in the Western world, and I learned what you can do without," she added. One major difference between Benin and the United States is the limited access to educational resources, according to Belden. 
"It is an underdeveloped country, so the resources are really tight," Belden said. "There is really limited access to books and research." 
Although Belden taught her 150 students lessons about ethics, they also discussed cultural differences between the two countries. 
"Some of the time we would just talk about life in the United States -differences in culture, academics, social life, etc.," she said. 
For Rainer Schwabe, a junior finance major and member of the NDCIBD, teaching in Lithuania opened his eyes to the eastern world. Schwabe traveled to Vilnius, Lithuania in the summer of 1997, to teach English at the Polish University of Lithuania for four weeks. 
"I had never taught before, and the first week was excruciating," Schwabe said. "I didn't know how to approach my students and some of them were much older than me. But, I eventually learned to build a good relationship with them." 
In addition, Schwabe had to adjust to a country where English was not the common language. "The language barrier was really tough," he said. "lt was hard getting around and not knowing any Lithuanian." Although his experience sometimes proved challenging, he encourages students to take part in the NDCIBD's Schools Program. "The program gives you the opportunity to go places that you normally wouldn't go," Schwabe said. 
Applications for the Schools Program will be available to any interested student beginning Nov. 30, according to McMullen. Students will be evaluated according to thPir contribution to the NDCIBD and their contribution to Notre Dame, as well as other qualifications. Applications are due Jan. 15, 1999. After this dead­line, interviews will take place, and students will be notified by the end of January about acceptance into the program. 
Any interested student is invited to attend the CDC meetings, held Mondays at 7 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortuno, or con­tact Brian McMullen at mcmullen.4@nd.edu for more information. 
UNDERGRADUATE TEACHING ASSISTANT 
A more immediate and accessible teaching opt.ion for students in tho Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities is the choice to work as an undergraduate teaching assistant. 
Undergraduate TA's are not required to do the same amount of work as a full-time graduate assistant TA, but they provide impor­tant help for students in lab or tutorials. 
"I really think it is beneficial to have an upperclassman who knows what they are doing and has been through it helping out," explained Notre Dame junior Walt Tuholski, who works as a TA for Engineering 120 (EG 120). 
Tuholski estimates that approximately eight hours, prnparing and doing his work 1 graduate TA. 
"1 teach two sections of tuu homework and grade exams," l 
Senior Gloria Urbanic, ano! teaching assistant. also estim~ dedicates six to eight hours 0 
j 
her work as a TA. · "!As a TA,! you takn attend: homework and turn in t.h 
1 
Urbanic said. 
In addition, Urbanic offers , • once a week, the night hefon • assignments are due, to hel problems. 
To obtain their positions, bo and Urbanic approached spec sors. Both are paid for the I spend working. 
"I really liked EG 120," Urbanic. "[Now,] I get excited! are in lab and doing well ... wh, on in their heads." I 
Some undergraduate teaching 
however, do not receive pa· 
hours. Instead, they choose to r 
credit. Senior Ileather Paich works as a TA for class credit helps out students taking Genera 
"When I was in lab sophomc helped me a lot and explaine explain," said Paich. "That made 
Paich obtained her job by Department. "I filled out an application and wants,"she explained. ~ ,\s u lab TA, Paich is required lab. "I walk around lab and go ovl answer other questions," she said 
Paich is considering volunteer Education teaching program afte rience as a TA will be helpful in t 
Students interested in workin contact the particular departm~ about the availability of positions 
STUDENT TEACHING IN SOU 
For education majors at Saint experience is not just a way to requirement. 
Most elementary education m, dent teaching during the fall se1 secondary education majors co . teaching during the spring seme senior year, according to Elisab senior elementary education m, Mary's. 
Krick currently works at Chr Elementary School in South Bern class or second-graders. 
"I'm there Monday through Fri time school starts until the kid school," Krick said. "I doe• teacher does." 
The student teaching program tion majors the chance to worl room with real students and t: certified teacher to answer quest "After about six weeks, you main teacher in the classroom," J 
Being the main teachm· means son plans, dealing with classro( ment and teaching tho lPssons. 
"Sometimes the main tfiache1 classroom for most of the d explained. 
Krick hopes that tlrn opportun time in a real classroom will .m; for her to adjust once she obtain position after graduation. She I the skills she has leaned will l generate new ideas, as well as organize her lesson plans. 
"Next year, I won't be going in 


eac 

1-.~ing 
opportunities 
,. spPnds 
tdt Wl'l'k 
an t111d1•r­
·tis, grad,• said. r u; 120 
111.11 slw 
h WPl'k to 
r,,, gniclP 
grad;,s," 
fin· hours 
lOJIJl'Wl)l'k 
al!Pviati> 
t Tuholski l'ii-prnfPs­o 11rs tl11iy 
•xpli!inPd 
whP11 kids 11 liglils go 
assisliu11s, photo courtesy ol NDCIBD 
for I h1-i r Dana Kovarik (ND '99) and Michelle Di Re (ND '96) with students of the Polish University of 
•cPiVP class Lithuania on a field trip to the medieval castle in Trakai, Lithuania. l'lll'f'f'llt.ly 
Krick said. "I'll have almost two months of hands-on experience."
in Uw Biology l)ppartnwnt. She 
Evaluations from Urn <:ooperating teacher and the opportunity toBiology laboratory. 
observe differnnt gradn levels also make student teaching an
n· y,•ar. tlw 111HIPrgraduate Ti\ 
important experience for future educators.
stuff tlw graduate Ti\ couldn't "I have learned so much from my cooperating teacher," said
IIP want to du il too." 
Krick. "It's like I hav11 a mentor. She helps nm out and gives ideas.
applyi11g through Uw Bi()logy 
Wlrnn I start leaching next year it won't be all brand new." Student teaching counts as 12 cn•dits for education majors. Allllw lah coordinator pil'.ks who slrn studm1t tnaclH!rs must ker,p a notebook of lesson plans and a port­folio of tlwir work. The portfolio includes a staternnnt of the studen­.o alt.Pm! hoth jWl!-lab hirt11rns anti t's philosophy of tnaching, a sample lesson plan, teacher and super­visor evaluations and a videotape of mm lesson. Most student teach­Pr lab q1wstions. procndurns and 
crs do not takr, any other classes during the semester, but the
I. 
option to takP a night art or sign language class does exists, accord­ing wiIh thn i\lliance l'or Catholic ing to Krick.
r graduation. Slw hopes lrnr Pxpe­h,i flltllrt'. 
Tnaching providns an opportunity not only to share the knowl­. g as 1111dc>rgraduatt! TJ\'s should iidge that one has. but to learn more about oneself and one's sur­1t of' intc•rnsl lo obtain information 
roundings by interacting with others. Certainly, the time one
1and till' s1wcific job rnquiremcnts. 
spends as a student in the classroom is almost always beneficial and rewarding. What the above undergraduate tear,hing programs
II BEND 
show, however. is that it can be just as rewarding to be the one
Mary's Collc!g'I\ hand-on teaching 
teaching.

lwlp m1t in thn classroom. It is a 
jors C{llllplPl!! ll Sl~IIH~St(]r of' stu­llCStPr of ttwir senior year while 1plcitc! tlwir rnquirnd semester of 'lt!r or tlwir ·tli Krick, a jor al Saini 
·l tlll' King lc!arhing a 
·1y f'rom l.hn ltlilV(l afl!ir 
•ryt.hing a 
iVl's P!hwa­in a t·lass­
• ht•lp nl' a IIS. f!('Olllf' lhl' 
-i1·k said. writing lf's­n matHtg'l'­
I,•aVI'S Llw 1y," Krid 
Ly lo s1lf'nd kt> it rntsiPr a t1iarhi11g 
•licv11s that 
ilp lwr tu 
pholo courtesy of NDCIBD 
rnatc and Lidita Mitrius (SMC '97). DiRe and Kovarik with students from the Polish University in Vilnius, Lithuania. 
it h!ind," 
·----·---­

C 
ena, s 
Thursday, November 19, 1998-------------------ossfRvER page 11 



¦ SCENE THROUGH OUR EYES 

".-~e greatest c~}eachers 
By Loubel Cruz Assistant Scene Editor 
When I was eight ye1us old. a third grader at Nitsch El<~montarySchool in a northwost suburb of llouston, I hated physical education. Yes, I was one of those little rug rnts who was scared of the kickball, finished last when the all tl111 stu­dents ran around tho school and acwally liktid t.h(' wenk whon the class learned squaro dancing (that might be a Toxas thingl. 
PJt was a shot to my self'-confidence. and f hPgged my par­ents to let me skip school on the day Lo take Lht~ Presidential Fitness Test. Who wantHd to bo tho child who could only do 25 sit-ups in sixty seconds and ran the mile in twenty minute's'? I didn't, but I was. 
But that all chang()d when Coach Watkins canw to Nitsch with her ever present blue-rimmed sunglasses and pink visor. She noticed the short, chubby girl always hiding behind the crowd. and she did not dlsmiss her t1,,.,; an athletic waste. 
SheJet me be a captain when we picked teams l'or kickball, she nodded with encouragement when l ran around the track to fotme kn{)W I was doing fin,~ Md she suggested to my mother I take u figur~ skating as a sport.
./½ .a.tkins. brought out confidence and abilities l nev1ir 
.. 

.kill! d, l never did run any fhster, but you can bet I was 
n ··· _· a.med ofit again. 
hrnan year at Klein Forest High School, Mr. Scott B was my Honors American History teacher. I camfl llpn1e after. my first day of school nnd told my mother he was arrog~ti:t, self0 absorbed and thought he knew everything. 
fie did...• 
.l inistMk his own sense of knowledge of history Md the teaching of history for arrogance_ But in reality, the man was a master at the subject. He could recite to you every battle in the Civil War, tell you the official bird of every state in the Union and, more hnportantly, he made you carti about it all. 
Mr. Bouyear did not teach, he molded. He did not want his students to succeed, he instilled in us the need to conquer. I found myself studying furiously for Mr. Bouyear's exams, not for a grade, but to prove myself to a man who l admirml like a legend. 
· 11<:, told me once that I would never be n good journalist ·bec1;1.use I was too truthful. I wonder what he would think if ho knew I want to be a lawyer now . But, come to think oflt, the best teachers l had I never shared a· da$sroom. with. 
My grandfather was an English professor and later a Dean at Sa.lnt 4-µgustine College in a small town in the Philippines. Even th.p,gl\ .never sat in a lecture hall to hear Grandpa speak, nt 
en: table I learnHd more from him than all his studtmts ,.. He told me stories of my ancestors and the family I JlHJ.t who l represent and should take pride from. n:j~ tOpray, not so I would be grantml favors, hut 
e$Sforwbat I have. 
4(liv~ on the second floor of Badin taught me ~lld,hreadsticks can mend every trouble. Ttrnyile and la.ugh when I lock my door for a private 
•ett1ind me that life ls full of obtainable wishes l 
-

... anyway.yir()h(;lred .Abercrombie hat who helped me carry a 06 to my dorm last week taught me that chivalry is
r,.ot'oeta, •·· · · 
·· · · Wotn(tnwho calls from CBLD everyday tenchps me that l 
f. .... pool.", h."responsible college student who needs to stopusiilg tbe phone, You'have taught me that peoph~ still read newspaper columns all thtnvay through. Thet'e are so many lessons taught every day from the most 
1rnlikoly peoplo. Youjust need to be wiUing to learn from thmn. 
The Qiews expressed in Scene 111rough Our E)1es are those of the author and not necessarily those of 11ie Observer. 

I 
t page 12
I The Observer • SPORTS 
I I I ¦ NBA
I 
I 
Wizards' Leglar speaks out against union 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

In the harshest anti-union comments yet by an NBA play­M, Tim Legler of the Washington Wizards said nego­tiations are stalled largely because the highest-salaried players are looking out for themselves. 
"They're the ones who are going to feel it if we sign this deal." Legler told the Washington Post. "That's why the deal is not being signed .... What this whole thing boils down to is the superstar players don't want to be maxed out on what they get paid individually. ... We're fighting for stuff only a few guys arc going to benefit from." 
Legler, whose comments appeared in today's Post, is the first NBA player to denounce the union since the lockout began nearly five months ago. Union leadership responded that Legler was wildly misin­formed about both the union·s and the owners' proposal. 
The sides plan to meet Friday 
¦ TENNIS 
in New York after morn than two weeks wiLhout a full negoti­ating session. 
On Wednesday, Day 141 of the lockout found Knicks coach Jeff Van Gundy rehabbing a Harlem brownstone, praising the Pacers, rapping about Master P and trying to adhere to the rule that prohibits him from speak­ing about players by name. 
"What if I'm using pronouns?" Van Gundy asked. not grasping the intricacies of the gag order quite as firmly as he grasped Alonzo Mourning's leg last spring. 
Speaking at a Knicks commu­nity relations project, Van Gundy summed up his feelings on a day when he should have been in Denver for the second game of a nine-day, six-city road trip: "Bored, yeah. ProfessionaJ!y bored." 
Van Gundy has been watching videotapes of new acquisition Marcus Camby and reviewing players the Knicks might want to pursue as free agents, while also keeping in touch with other members of the coaching frater­nity -with one notable excep­tion. 
Asked if he had spoken to Miami Heat coach Pat Riley-, his former mentor with whom he had a falling-out during the first round of the playoffs last sea­son, Van Gundy squirmed and tried to avoid responding before finally answering "No." 
To a question of whether a shortened season might benefit the more established teams, Van Gundy said it's a matter of who comes back in shape. 
"The thing I read about Indiana is that their team is ready to go. They've got 11 or 12 guys working together each and every day, and I think that toam will definitely have a jump on all the other teams because they are more committed. 
"For our• team, I haven't heard those reports." 
Van Gundy had heard. howev­er, about the exploits of rap impresario Master P, who after earning more than $50 mi.Ilion last year has been playing point guard this season for the Fort Wayne Fury of the CBA, totaling three points, no assists, four turnovers and seven fouls in 20 minutes in two games. 
Master P, also known as Percy Miller. has made waves in the agent business by signing Ron Mercer of Boston, Derek Anderson of Cleveland and rookie Ricky Davis of Charlotte. Mercer had been represented by David Falk, and Davis was a client of Arn Tellem. 
So far. the lirst seven weeks of the season have been scrapped and the chances are dwindling for a settlement that would allow for the NBA season to start before Christmas. 
Wizards guard Mitch Richmond, who is on the play­ers· negotiating team, said Legler's comments about elite players wern "uncalled for" and that Legler "is definitely wrong." 
"He hasn't been to one meet­ing," Richmond said. "He hasn't been to the negotiating table.... The owners' proposal doesn't benefit anyone. We are not going to sell out the lower-paid guys for the higher-paid guys.... Not to put down Legler, because he's my teammate, but he should talk to the players asso­ciation about this." 
Eltingh and Haarhuis win first ATP match 
Associated Press 
.. 
HARTFORD Jacco Eltingh and Paul Haarhuis, playing in their final 
doubles tournament as a team, beat Ellis Ferriera and Rich Leach 6-4, 6-4 Wednesday in the opening round of the ATP World Doubles Championship. 
The Dutchmen, ranked No. 1 in the world, improved their 1998 record to 42-4, the best winning percentage on the ATP Tour this season. Together they have won 38 titles, includ­ing this year at Wimbledon. 
The pair has appeared in six previous World Doubles Championships and has never lost an opening round match. 
Eltingh, 28, announced his retirement from tennis follow­ing the conclusion of this event. 
"We want to go out on top," Haarhuis said following the match. "That means winning here in Hartford and finishing the year as the best team in the world." 
Eltingh became a new father this year and admits his heart is close to home. 
"I've been playing tennis seriously since I was 12," he _said. "It's been a great career, but I just know that I won't have to pack my bags any­more." 
Later Wednesday, Don Johnson and Francisco Montana upset the No. 2 seeds Mahesh Bhupathi and Leander Paes, 3-6, 6-4, 7-6 (7-4). 
The heavily favored Indian team of Bhupathi and Paes breezed through the opening 
set, but after getting to 4-4 in the second set failed to close out the winning, forcing the match in to the decisive third set. The final set went to a tiebreak, with Johnson and Montana getting the early break and holding on for the 
win. 
"The way they (Johnson and Montana} played tonight, they would have beaten a lot of teams," said Bhupathi. "They returned very well and we had chances, but could not convert them." 
Thursday, November 19, 1998 
Wings 


/?,~'::<:iFi~:t-:::.:,:,,~= 
,, > < ... EDMONTON 
· Yie:rma.n had two;. an assist to le.ad ..}letfWirigs to a 6­ov:er the Edmonton Wednesday night. 
, , . . . . an., Aaron Ward and ,.Vyac:heslav Kozlov scored in th!:! 'l'ltst period and the Red . Whigs, who had lost two 

straight, never looked back. 
Y~erman, Martin Lapointe .. ·and Sergei Federov complet­. ~d the scoring for Detroit in 
Defenseman Larry Murphy assists for the Red
s. who cmnplete their 
m.e Western roatl .1.'da.y night Jp ...1\,.i . . ' ..· ·.. . . .. ur~ay and Tom Poti i'Jhe Oilers. 
zorman scored on a slap {!ho{from well out 48 sec• 
~nds lnto the game, follow, .. ing a rush up the left side. ,Ward managed his first point . of the season with another slap shot from well out, along the right boards, at 5;46. 
Murray made it 2-1 a · · · · later, with an excel­ohd effort from clqse
.:-x,,,-·-----·-. . 
tpfed:the JWP: 
~ power play atC 
coted from in s goaltender Bob flopped. 
Afte.r Lapointe, Yzennan andFedorov scored just over eight m.inutes apart in the 
'third, Poti scored his first 
•· Ni-IL goal on a power play lat the game. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SOUTH PADRE (FREE 232-2595 some 1-800 number.Limited spaceNOTICES MEALS), CAN CU N,JAMAICA, KEY· FOR SALE i need lsu tix! call 634-3006 available.so book now! 
WEST.PANAMA CITY.REPS NEED-House for rent, 105 Marquette, FOOTBALL TICKETS Anthony Travel.Inc. THE COPY SHOP ED/TRAVEL FREE.EARN 5 bedrooms, available now and for 271-9412 I NEED LSU LaFortune Student Center LaFortune Student Center CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR next fall. 232-6964 TICS 631-7080 We're Open A Lot!!! 6+. WANTED x3054 Mon-Thur: 7:30 am -Midnight WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM Room for Rent in Turtle Creek ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Chris Looking for a unique gilt? Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm 800-838-8203. apartments.Call 273-2435. 271-1526 Sat: Noon • 6:00 pm Need LSU tickets· Call Greg and Bring in 12 of your favorite pic­Sun: Noon -Midnight CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­FOR SALE ND Ftbl. tix Paul at 234-7142 tures and we'll create a custom color When you need copies, Workers earn up to $2000+/month BUY-SELL calendar. we're open! (w/tips & benetits).World PREPAID PHONE CARDS 273-3911 MUST SELL! 
Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000-198 MIN. $20 2 LSU tix, 40 yard line THE COPY SHOP 
Early Spring Break $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517· CALL 258-4805 ND Football Tickets Needed. Face value O.B.O. LaFortune Student Center Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 336-4235 AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Call Chris @ 634-3799 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Ext.C55841 FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! Full Color Desktop Publishing Awesome Beaches,Nightlife'Departs Bed box set. not available in ND FOOTBALL TIX I LSU GA needed. Will pay $$. Services are now available at The From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica FOR RENT U.S. call pete at 251-0178. FOR SALE Call Morgan @4-0807. Copy Shop in LaFortune. Air,Hotel,Meals &Parties AM 232-2378 Design, Scanning, Printing and $3391Panama City Room With ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME PHONE CARDS PM 288-2726 2 LSU GAs for sale Copying in COLOR! Kitchen,7 Free Parties $129!Oaytona FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY $20 buys 282 mins. call dave @ 1902 Room With Kitchen $149!spring­CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658 Contact Always buying and selling N D •• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, 
breaktravel.com Andrea -634-2584 football tickets. 289-8048 2 LSU tix 4 sale. B.O. BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING 1·800-678-6386 THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Dori -684-3339 273-151 O leave offer. STUDENTS •• Original student Breakfast Inn has space available for MiMi -634-0907 Parents coming to town and I group will hold SUPPORT meeting 
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with need 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4-4896. Need 1 LSU ticket tomorrow 11/19. Call info line for Early & Receive a Ftee Meal private baths,$80-Pckrd Bell GA or student-call details. 236-9661. We respect confi­Plan!!'Cancun & Jamaica $115.Middlebury,30 miles from cam• 120Mhz 80M RAM 1.2 g HD Need 4 LSU TIX courtney @288-1423 dentiality' 
$399,Bahamas $459,Panama City pus. CD. Mon., Spkrs. Pat@ x0680 
$99. Toll Road.Exit #107 ext. warranty SELLING 2 LSU GAs: 1-soo-234.no1 1-800-418-9487 $500firm WANTED: 2 AEROSMITH 243-2770 Patrick­endlesssummertours.com 246-0781 TICKETS, NEED GOOD SEATS. 7-1/2!!1 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­271-9543 PERSONAL mk rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. Mac 520 power book and 
jtOST & FOUND I 
image writer printer both NEED 4 LSU TIX "Don't Get Burned on Spring 1,2,3.4.5.6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR for $650. Call 287-7928 Call 312-951-5008 -EVE Break' Mac... •··••·••·•·•FOUND··•··•·••·••• 
CAMPUS GILLIS PROPER-Spnng Break Packages are going Heatha, you know what you need, 819 Set of keys @ Domino's on TIES.272-6551 TICKETS NEED 2 LSU GA'S. CALL fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica 
Heatha.. Edison on 11 /6. 257-1141. Packages for the Class of '991Stop in You need a __ -~ that'll Call 271-0300. 6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. TICKETMART Inc at Anthony Travel in the La Fortune shut thal mouth'a yours. 
AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272-BUY-SELL-TRADE I Need 2 LSU GAs Student Center and check out theWANTED 6306 Notre Dame Football Tickets Call Fred 289-7136 best Spring Break vacations 258-1111 around.Get your deposit in by "ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST WALK TO CAMPUS No student tickets please 2 USC TIX for sale Dec.18 and save.Don't take a SPRING BREAK PRICES TO 2-5BEDROOM Call Dave (651) 486-7498 chance with an unknown agency or 

~ ----------------­
Thursday, November 19, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
The Holy Year and the Holy Door 
-----------------Peter Rocca, C.S.C. 
A Jubilee, or Holy Year, is a great event of special solemnity. Its obser­
1_C_a_le_n_d_a_r_o_f_E_v_e_n_t_s________ vance has a biblical counterpart in the Jubilee years followed at SO-year inter­vals by the pre-exilic Israelites. The Law of Moses prescribed Sabbatical and Exposition of the Blessed Jubilee years of the Jewish people when there was no cultivation of crops, Sacrament when alienated lands were returned to their original owners, debts were par-
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00pm, doned and slaves freed (see Leviticus 25: 8-54). The word jubilee is derived from St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall the Hebrew yobhel, meaning ram's horn, sounded to announce this special year.
Fridays, 12 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, 
In the New Testament, Jesus presents himself as the one who brings the 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart.. 
old Jubilee to completion, because he has come "to announce a year of favor 
from the Lord" (Isaiah 61: 1-2). "The words and deeds of Jesus thus represent
NOE #53 Team Retreat 
the fulfillment of the tradition of Jubilees in the Old Testament" (Apostolic Sunday, November 22, St. Joe H.all Letter: Tertio Millennia Adveniente [On the Coming of the Third Millenium], by Pope John Paul II. We might say the first Christian Jubilee was born out of Misa en Espanol {Spanish Mass) public acclaim. It was the practice of Christians from early times to go on pil­grimage to the Holy Land, or to visit the tombs of the Apostles Peter and Paul
Celebrant: Padre Joh11Herman, 
in Rome and the shrines of the martyrs. There was also a prevailing belief that 
c.s.c. every 100th year was a year of"great pardon." Sunday, November 22, 1:30 Pm, Stanford­The late 13th century was a time of vast suffering caused by wars and Keenan Chapel diseases. Among the people there was a great desire to return to a more holy 
way of living. With tremendous faith many Christians traveled to Rome on foot to visit the tombs of the apostles and to receive the pope's blessing, in
Thanksgiving Day Mass 
order to obtain grace and strength to carry on. They came by the thousands at
Celebrant: Rev. Thomas P. · 

Christmas in 1299. Due to their immense number, Pope Boniface VIII pro­Doyle, C.S.C. claimed the first Christian Jubilee in February 1300 as a "year of forgiveness of all sins." A similar year was to be held every hundred years. By 1470 the 
Thusday, November 26, 11:30 am, Ba§Uica Jubilee celebration was fixed by Pope Paul II at the 25-year interval. 
of the Sacred Heart 
Medieval popes embodied in the observance of a Holy Year the practice of good works, for example, the reception of the sacraments of Penance and Eucharist, pilgrimages and/or visits to the major basilicas of Rome, and the granting of spiritual benefits. A key symbol during each Holy Year is the opening and closing of Holy Year doors in the four major basilicas in Rome (St. Peter, St. John Lateran, St. Paul and St. Mary Major), a practice begun in 1500 by Pope Alexander VI who prescribed these rituals for the beginning and con­cluding ceremonies of the Jubilee on successive Christmas eves. At the begin­ning of each Holy Year, the doors are ceremoniously opened for pilgrims to enter throughout the year. At the year's end, they are sealed from the inside with bricks and mortar, until the next Jubilee year. 

Solemnity of Christ the King 
These doors are symbolic of our journey to God, which is through Jesus Christ the Savior who said, "Whoever enters through me will be saved" (John Weekend Presiders 10:9). They also represent the heart bf the believer who allows God to enter at Sacred Heart Basilica and dwell within. In his apostolic letter, Tertio Millennia Adveniente, Pope John Paul II writes, "The Holy Door of the Jubilee of the Year 2000 should be symbolically
Saturday, November 21 Mass 
wider than those of previous Jubilees, because humanity, upon reaching this 
30 Min. after the game 
goal, will leave behind not just a century but a millenium. The Church should 
Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. make this passage with a clear awareness of what has happened to her during the last ten centuries. She cannot cross the threshold of the new millenium without encouraging her children to purify themselves, through repentance of 
Sunday, November 22 Mass 
past errors and instances of infidelity, inconsistency and slowness to act." The Holy Father calls on the Church, collectively as an institution as 
10:00 a.m, 
-

J well as individually in her members, to honestly and courageously look at past
Most Rev. Michael J. Sheehan, 
neglects and weaknesses. He has asked all dioceses to participate in Jubilee Archbishop of Sante Fe, New Mexjco 
2000 in a special way by designating a door as a Holy Year door. This simple gesture will allow Catholics to unite themselves with the universal family of 
11:45 a.m. 
God. Most Rev. Robert N. Lynch, On November 29, the First Sunday of Advent and the beginning of the new liturgical year, the Basilica of the Sacred Heart here on campus, together 
Bishop of St. Petersburg, Florida 
with the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Fort Wayne and the Cathedral of St. Matthew in South Bend, will officially begin its celebration of the Great Jubilee of the Year 2000 with the sealing of its designated Holy Year 
Scripture Readings for this Coming 
Door by the Most Reverend Joseph R. Crowley, auxiliary bishop emeritus, at 
Sunday 
the 10:00 a.m. Mass. The door will remain sealed until midnight, New Year's 
..

1st Reading 2 Samuel 5:1-3 Eve, 1999: Prior to the 10:00 a.m. Mass in the Basilica, Bishop Crowley will pass in
2nd Reading Colossians 1:12·20 
procession through the designated Holy Year Door -the southwest door near 
Gospel Luke 23:35-43 the main entrance -and return to the door for the appropriate blessing and 1'111111 sealing. The Jubilee 2000 seal will be borne in procession and will be placed on m: the interior and exterior door, containing the words "Jesus, Yesterday, Today, rAMPLJS and F_orever," adapted from Hebrews 13:8. Please join us on this solemn \.:...INISTRY 
ocra~oo. M 
-
page 14 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, November 19, 1998 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Umass falls to St. John's in pre-season NIT 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Tyrone Grant had career­highs of 20 points and 17 rebounds and St. John's came up with the strong inside game it needed for a 73-69 victory over No.. 23 Massachusetts on Wednesday night in the second round of the Preseason NIT. 
The Red Storm (2-0), who crushed North Carolina­Asheville J05-50 in the opening round. advanced to next week's semifinals at Madison Square Garden against an opponent from the four-team bracket that started their first-round play Wednesday night. 
The Minutemen (1-1) were expected to be able to use their size advantage inside against St. John's, but Grant, a 6-foot-7 senior forward, and the 6-6 Lavor Postell. a starter who has been moved to the sixth man role by new coach Mike Jarvis, came tip big. 
Massachusetts, which trailed 35-27 at halftime, was within 41-37 with 13:38 left on a move down low by center Lari Ketner, who struggled all night with his shooting as St. John's played tough defense inside. 
Grant, whose previous best was 17 points as a sophomore and 15 rebounds twice, and Postell scored all the points in a 5-0 run that made it 46-37 with 
10:40 left. Grant's free throw that capped the run came when he was fouled by Ketner and the 6-10 senior picked up his fourth foul 16 seconds later. 
St. John's took control for good when 6-9 junior forward Ajmal Basit picked up his fifth streak against other Missouri foul when he hit Grant as he schools. made a nice move with his lcfl The Tigers hadn't lost to aii hand and made the shot. in-state opponent since Dec. 8, Massachusetts coach Bruiser 1970, when they were beaten Flint argued the call and was 79-70 by St. Louis. given a technical. Grant made Southwest Missouri's last out­the free throw to complete the ing against the Tigers was throe-point play and the two for exactly 10 years before the technical and St. John's had Wednesday's game -and also a 55-41 lead with 7:56 to play. in the first round of Lhe presea-
Massachuse tts made the son NIT. Missouri won 73-54 on game close by ending the game Nov. 18, 1988. with a 14-7 run that included The Bears, who meet the three 3-pointers by Hafael Cruz winner of Wednesdav's in the final 1:13, but tho Hed Stanford-Southern Methodist Storm went 7-for-8 from the game ill the second round, foul line in that span. went up 70-68 when Ken 
Postell and Bootsy Thornton Stringer hit two free throws each had 13 points for St. with 1:55 remaining. John's, while freshman point Missouri, which trailed 49-38 guard Erick Barkley bad 12. with just over 18 minutes left, 
Mike Babu! and Montv Mack fought back behind 14 second­each had 15 points for the half points from forward Albert Minutemen, who beat Niagara White and tied the game at 68 87-74 in the opening round. with 2:38 on two free throws bv 
Ketner. considered one of the Johnnie Parker. · top players in the Atlantic 10. Parker's free throws followed finished with 13 points on 5-of-eight straight points by White. 14 shooting, while Basit had White's 18 points and l 1 three and was l-of-5 from the rebounds led Missouri, which field. missed two 3-point tries in the 
St. John's improved to 7-0 final 4 seconds. all-time against Massachusetts, Southwest Missouri, which but the previous six games• went on a 7-0 run to start the were all played from 1963 to second half, took an 11-2 lead 1968. early in the game. 
Missouri, sparked by Brian 
Missourt St. 72, Grawer and freshman Kenvon 
Missouri 69 Dooling, fought back and t~ok 
21-20 lead just before the mid-
COLUMBIA point of the first half. 
Kevin Ault scored 20 points Grawer hit two 3-pointers Wednesday night as Southwest and scored eight points in a 12­Missouri State beat Missouri 2 run, and Dooling -who had 72-69 in the opening round of not been expected to play the preseason NIT and broke because of a hip injury N start­the Tigers' 28-year winning ed the surge with a pair of free throws and a breakaway dunk. 
Ault, who scored five points in the Bears' early 11-0 run, had sevf-m more in the last 4:30 of the first half as Southwest Missouri State took a 42-38 lead at the break. 
North Carolina 65, Georgia 58 
CHAPEL HILL 

Kris Lang scon~d 21 points, AdomoJa Okulaja added 14 and each took turns shutting down Georgia star Jumaine Jones as No. 10 North Carolina beat the Bulldogs 65-S8 in the second round of the Prescason NIT on Wednesday night. 
The Tar Heels (3-0), who blew a 13-point second-half lead before rallying for the win, now head to New York City to play Purdue in the semifinals next week. 
North Carolina beat the Bulldogs by two in overtime last sea.son in Athens, Ga., and this one turned out to be almost as dose as Georgia (2-11 rallied down the stretch to tie it 55-55 with 4:08 loft. 
But Ed Cota sank a 3-pointer 15 seconds later and the Tar Heels went on to win for the 53rd time in their last 58 games despite 13 second-half turnovers. 
The Tar Heels controlled the pace with their half-court offense and shut down Jones, who came into the game aver­aging 27.5 points. The 6-foot-7 sophomore was held to 12 points on 5-for-16 shooting by Lang and Okulaja. 
Georgia came into the game with five double-figure scorers, but only three scored in the opening 20 minutes. Junes was O-for•6 from the field in the first half. 
D.A. Layne kept the Bulldogs within striking distance. The freshman came off the bench and hit live straight shots. 
Utah State 62, 
Utah 54 
LOGAN 
Hick Majerus had said his No. 9 Runnin' Utes were inexperi­enced, unpolished and unwor­thy of their ranking. Turns out he was right. 
Donnie Johnson scored 18 points and Troy Rolle had 11 as Utah State shocked Utah 62-54 on Wednesday night. 
The Utcs, who advanced to the NCAA championship game last spring, played dismally on both ends of' the court. They held a 49-45 lead with 4:25 to play, but the Aggies ran away with the game by scoring on their last eight possessions. 
Even preseason All-American Andre Miller, who had 18 points and seven rebounds, couldn't save Utah from its own mistakes. The Runnin' Lites shot 34.4 percent from the field, made 11 turnovers, com­mitted 21 personal fouls and were 4-for-22 on 3-pointers. 
Utah's other two big guns, Hanno Mottola and Alex Jensen, were a combined 1O­for-31 from the field. Mottola shot two airballs in the game's closing minutes and looked rat­tled by the bitterly vocal crowd at Smith Field House. 


Thursday, November l 9, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 15 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Indians trade Giles to Pirates for Rincon 

CLASS OF 1999... 

Reasons 
to Head to Heartland for 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
THURSDAYS 
@NOLSUFANS 
ON TIIE PREMISES 
,AThe 
:;.;,,girl 
from 

"Life · ·~~~-..J ~. Goes On" .... 
is ruining 11ER" 
(1D 99¢ Cover~ 
Kick-off the weekend early at South Bend's 
BIGGEST PARTY 
}' ~ W!. 
222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND 
(21 9) 2 3 4 -5 2 0 0 www.oceploces.com/heartland 
Associated Pre•~ 
PITTSBUHGII 
Tho Clnveland Indians, eagor lo prop up an aging bullpen. priod away left-handed reliev­er Hicardo Hincon from lh() Pittsburgh Pirates on Wti d nesd a y for o u tf'i e Id n r Brian Gilns. 
Thn trade gives the off'on­sivoly del'icicmt Pirates a badly needed hat lhny tried t.o ac4uirc at least twice bcf'oro. The Indians gd a lcirt-handed sotup man to complomont Paul Assonmaclier, who will be 38 next month. 
''We gave up a good player, but we got a good player," Piratw; gp,neral manager Cam Bonifay said. 
Giles, 27, hit .269 with 16 homnrs and 66 HBls in 112 games as a part-time starter last season. He can play left field -the Pirates are trying to deal Al Martin -or c.:cn ler l'i11ld, but is only avoragn defensively. 
A Giles error in loft field also cost the Indians a run in their 9-5 to Nnw York in the clinch­ing game of the AL champi-

GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT. 
Conveniently located in the heart of 
downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 
Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, 
serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
prime filer mignons, t-bones, and ribeyes 
(as well chicken, burgers and salaJs, too). 
See why steaks are our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN• SOUTH BEND 
(219) 234-5200 
onship series. 
"Ile is a legitimate power bat who can play both corner out­l'i o Ict positions and is an aggressivn hilter," Bonifay said. 
'THIS IS A SIGN OF us 
DOING WHAT HAS 
WORKED FOR THE LAST 
FOUR OR F1VE YEARS. 
CHAMPIONSHIP CUJBS NEED 
TO HAVE A STRONG 
BULLPEN. WE'VE DONE IT 
WITH GOOD STARTERS AND 
A QUALITY BULLPEN.' 
JOHN HART IND/ANS GENERAL M4NAGER 
The trade could li!ad to at least twu oLhr,rs involving Martin and second baseman Tony Womac.:k, who may have lost his job when Urn Pirates signed free agent Mike Benjamin on Tuesday, 
Giles, a .284 earner hitter, also fits the Pirates' budget. His base salaries are $800,000 in 1999, $1.55 million in 2000 and $2.55 million in 2001, with plate appearance bonus­es that could add $200,000 per season. 
"It does seem like I've been going there for 3-4 years," Giles said. "It's always been in the rumors, so I guess it was always in back of my mind I'd wind up in Pittsburgh." 
Hincon, 28, is best known for teaming with Francisco Cordova on a 10-inning no-hit­ter against llouston in July 1997. lie also was one of' the NL's most rnliab!e loft-handed relievers the last two seasons, going 4-10 with 18 saves and a 3.17 EHA in 122 games. 
"Traditionally, we have looked to build a very strong bullpen every year," Indians general manager John Hart 
·.'I said. "We foll orrn ol' the piccos we worn missing was a lights­out left-hander." 
llart projects Hincon as a one-inning s11lup rnli1wor for closer Mike Jackson. 
"This is a sign of' us doing what has worked for us for the lasl !'our or five years. Championship clubs ncod to have a strong bullp1rn," Harl said. "Wn'vn dono it with good startnrs and a quality bullpen." 
Hincon W-2. 2. 1)1 Elt,\, 14 saves last season) was cxpend­ab I fl because the Pirates already havn a solid lnf't-hand­nd relinvcir 111 Jason Christiansnn. 
By dtrnling for Giles, tho Pirates continue trying lo upgrade what was the NI.'s worst -hitting team lasl sea­son, 
The Pirates, who hopo to move into a n!lW stadium in 2001. also havri made thoir 11rst proposal to a free agent in seven yoars by offering a multiyear ct,ial to Baltimore Orioles outriclder-third base­man B.J. Surhoff. 
Team sources discounted published reports the offer was $20 million over four years, but the deal apparently is worth more than their entire $14 million payroll last season. 
Pirates managing general partner Kevin McClatchy signed off on thn proposal to the 34-year-old Surhoff, who made $1.3 million last season. 
"lie gave me the approval to make the offer, and I'm enthu­siastic and hopeful," Bonifay said. "Whether he (Surhof'O is ready to move on or stay in Baltimore. I can't say." 
The Indians probably arnn'l done dealing, either. They're looking for another starting pitcher and am negotiating with f'ree-agfint second-base­man Hoberto J\lomar. 
"The Indians nevnr slenp," llart said. 
Saturday's game, but coach 
Davie believes they will come ready to upset the Irish on their home field. 

Faulk 
continued from oaae 20 
~1 know that this is a big

explosive, Quarterback's 
football game for LSU, coming

explosive. ffylerl throws the off that open date," Davie saidball deep. {Tyler's) dangerous 
on Tuesday. "I'm sure they

running with the football and 
are excited to come up here

he can take off and score 
and play and I expect them topoints...And they are a good, play their bost football game

strong offensive line with a of the year. I have no doubtgood, strong fullback." 
about it. I doubt that we'll

LSU has not lived up to pre­
play any (team) morn talent­

season expectations, with a 4­
ed, top to bottom as far as

5 record coming into 
personnel. than LSU." 
-

Complete Coverage of ND vs. LSU coming tomorow 
#6HOCKEY 
Fri., Nov. 20th 
vs. Western Michigan 
7:00 p.m. 
#4 Women's Soccer 
NCAA Championship Second Round 
Fri., Nov. 20th 7:30pm 
vs. #13 Nebraska Alumni Field 
First 100 students with I.D. get in FREE! 
#11 Women's Basketball 
Sat., Nov. 21st 
vs. #4 Duke 
7:30 p.m. First 1000 fans in gate 10 receive 
a FREE Notre Dame Basketball schedule magnet 

~ Win great adidas a~@as merchandise!! 
-
"'W 

Page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 19, 1998 
The Universi.ty of Notre Dame Marching Band Proudly Presents its Graduating Seniors: 
Durran Alexander Thomas Bechert Sarah Brown Keely Burns Kevin Calcagno Colleen Campbell Dana Collins Michael Connor Theresa Coolahan Erin Corbett 
-John Curry 
Kathleen Desch Julie Dinolfo Steve Dolezal Nathan Elliot Phillip Erskine Erin Evans Anthony Farina Adam Fitzpatrick Julie Galbo Jared Garza Michael Gonzalez Maria Goodrich Brian Hardy Amy Hartman 
Christina Hilpipre Andrew Horner Chris -Jenson Bryan Johnson Dawn Johnson Geoffrey Kammerer Carol Konrad Matt Kutz Marina Lamps Carolyn Lateulere Greg Leonberger Daniel Lid Andrew Malahowski Michael Martin Michael McAllister Kevin McManus Emily Merkler Kip Moen Tim Muckle Chris Mullarkey Kevin Murphy Mary Nichol Crystal Ortman Jason Petrungaro 
Pat Phillips Carolyn Rottinghaus Christian Sabella Don Sanders Kathy Schuth Sarah Semlow Patricia Sevilla Dave Shenk Mary Shull Christine Smith Jeffery Spoonhower Jennifer Tohill Gloria Urbanic Chris Veldhuizen Rebecca Warner Heidi Winker Brian Winkler Jill Witkowski Chuck Witschorik Karen Wolkerstorfer Ben Wright Sean Ziegler Lisa Zimmer 

Join us in honoring all of the seniors in the Notre Dame comm.unity as we play "The Bells of Saint Mary's" and "Notre Dame Our Mother" at halftime of their last home football game this Saturday. 
Thursday, November 19, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
~~-----:-~---:----------------------------------------__.___~_ 
straight matrlms. ¦ C F
BaskethaII "This hasn't been Orn most OLLEGE OOTBALL 
sucrnssl'ttl year, but it's boon 
onn of' my most fun yoars," said
conlinued from page 20 
Treadwnll. 'Tm just sorry to see 
Vols, Wildcats ready to battle 
11rntd1. TrPadwcll and Audra it end." 
-

invites students from the Archdiocese of Santa Fe to meet their archQishop 
The Most Reverend Michael J. Sheehan 
at a continental breakfast on Sunday, November 22, at 11:15 a.m. in the Notre Dame Room of LaFortune Student Center 
The archbishop will be the principal celebrant of the 10:00 a.m. Mass 
.. 

Basilica of the Sacred Heart Sunday, November 22 
R.S.V.P. to 631-8051 by Friday, November 20 Please invite.-your friends fro~ Santa Fe 
ll11da, tlw Ion!' .S(:niors on lhr. [1\am, WPI'(' honor«HI in a 1:nrn­mnny for SP11ior Night. 
Tri>adwPll. tlw team (:aplaii1. !Pads tlw Irish in hitting pcr­«-Pntag1•, sPrvirP acns. digs and 1,locks. Slw is in Lill' Irish canwr rPc(,rd hooks iII I:l ('alogorhis. Nanwd llw Big East tournanwnt MVP in I(J(H1 and Big hast play­Pr of' t hP Wl'Pk four times. TrPa<hv1\ll has play(\d in 116 
Brown rnmovud Trnadwell from last night's match on the final point, only tlrn sncond time she has come out of' a match this ynar, with the other bning against Indiana wlrnn she had tlw llu. 
"Shn has providP<l greal !Pad­ersllip," said Brown. "She has been very sl1mcly, and is always lighting. I hardly E!vnr have to gel Oil lier about intensity." 
• BASKETBALL 
J..,ast Chance Offer 
Basketball season booklets and ND vs. IU tickets on sale at the following locations-Nov. 18-South Dining Hall Nov. 19-North Dining Hall Nov. 20-South Dining HaJI 
(10:00am -2:00pm) 
Season Tickets-Only $44 ND vs. IU-$8 Pick up your booklets ... must show your student ID. 

Associated rrcss 
With dun rospcct to The Gurne and the Big Game, a !'ew other rivalrins on Saturday have turnt>d into Heally Big c;ames. 
Top-ranked Tennessee (9-0. 6-0 SEC) plays for more than the Bunr Barrel when Kontuckv (7-3, 4-3) visits Neyland Stadium. With a win, the VoluntnPrs clinch u berth in the SEC titlo !{anm on Due. 5 and moVP a st<•p doser to a national Lille. 
"I think 0111· kids havn a g1rn­uinn rns1mct for K(•ntucky,''Vols coach Phillip Fulmer said. "They know tlH\ consl'qwrnces of this game and continuing on nation­ally." 
Fulmer .is so focused on Saturday's game, he's in the dark about what elso is going on. 
"I couldn't tell you who else is playing," said Fulmer, working on ways to slow Wildcats quar­tcrback Tim Couch, who has thrown for 3.9:~8 yards and 34 TDs. "It's just such a challenge here," 
Well. l'hil, lrnrn's what's hap­pening. 
At Pasadena, CaliL, No. 3 UCLA (9-0, 7-0 Pac-10} plays host to Southern California (7­3, 5-2) with thn Victorv Bnll N and Hose Bowl N ar1 af'tcr­thoughl. Tho Bruins, who already havt> clinclrncl a Hosfi Bowl berth, arc looking for a perfect season and trip to the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 4, where the naUonaf title will bo on the line. 
"It's a big game for us, it's big for our goals, it's big for our fans, it's big for llrn pllople who mean a lot Lo us," UCLA center 
.·BRAII IAGicl F4~11.~ BILLIARD/ 
Student Spectal•-1/'Z prk:e ($L50/hr.) 
3-6 pm 1'ten-fri. 
?Jt.<,.,,,, ~ ~.~ (QI Ht44 ~J 


·.. . > . i i .· l402 S. Lafayette(go west on B.fdf.~ntl goSouth on Lafayette) . ph. 233-2323 
The University of Notre Dame 
Shawn Stuart said. 
The Trojans am looking to 
end a seven-game losing streak 
against the Bruins -tlrn longest 
in the 67-gamii series dating to 
1929 -with freshman Carson 
Palmer at <1uarterback. UCL/\ 
counters with llnisman Trophy 
contender Cade McNown, who 
failed to throw a TD pass in last 
week's 3 6-24 win OV(\ r 
Washington. 
At Columbia, Mo., trinkPts arcn 't at stakn when No. 2 Kansas State (10-0, 7-0 Big 12) plays No. 1<J Missouri (7-'.\, 5-2), bul the Wildcats rwnd an impressive win t.o keep their national title hopes alive, K­State plays No. 6 Texas A&M in the Big 12 titln game on D1!c. :i, and must end up first or :,rncond in the final BCS standings to make it. to the Finsta Bowl. Entering Saturday's games, tho Wildcats am in third plac1\, bnhind Tenncsscn and UCLA. 
Also, the winner of tlw No, 4 Florida (9-1} at No. !i Florida State (10-1) game could enter 
thn title chasn if two of t.lrn top thrcw teams lose. 
In The Gamn. Yaln (!i-4) is at Harvard (4-:i} on tlrn :Hlth anniversary of tho famous 211­29 tie . In th e l 9 <, 8 g-am (1 • Harvard scornd Hi points in the final minutP, including-a 2-point conversion with timn Pxpired. The beadlin(~ in the llarvard school papnr the rwxt day mad: Harvard Beats Yaln, 29-21).(l 
In the Big Gamn, Stanford (2­
8) is at California (:i-5), with the Bears nending a win to qualify for a bowl game. In tlrn prnvious 100 games, 4 7 wnre dncidnd by a touchdown or lnss, including Stanford's 21-20 win in '97. 



,----­
---· 
page 18 The Observer• SPORTS Thursday, November 19, 1998 
¦ FOOTBALL 
Steinbrenner to speak at 79th Annual Banquet 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Purdue wins 83-68 
over Gonzaga 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE 

Jaraan Cornell scored a 
career-high 29 points, 
including eight straight in a 
kev second-half run, as No. 
1s· Purdue beat Gonzaga 83· 
68 Wednesday night to 
reach the semifinals of the 
Preseason NIT; 
Gorrzaga's upset hopes 
were ended by a la.te scoring 
drought. The Bulldogs scored only four points and made just one basket in the final seven minutes. 
Cornell, a junior guard, was 9-of-13 from the field and made all eight of his free throws to top his previ­ous high of 28 points. 
Gonzaga (1-2) had cut a 
14-point halftime deficit to 
five when Cornell began his 
run. He made a basket and a 
3-pointer to give Purdue a 
65-55 lead, then made all 
three free throws after he 
was fouled atternpUng a 3­
poin,ter to put the 
BQUertnakers ahe;id 68-55 
with 13:Q9remainu:i;g. ....· 
Purdue (3:0), which will playNo, lONorthCa.tolina in the semifinals atMadison ... Sqilll,re Garden . ·»e~t··. Wednesday, never Jet the BµXld.pgs get c1QJ.ei,>th;,anc. eight.points again, .....··••......... 
Richie Frahm, whQ scored .~ 9'f"er-hlgh 37 polntsiii
Gonz1,tga's wt:o. · over 
Mike: Well enough, 1 suppose ... Except that I don't know what I'm going to do with myself this sU:mmc:r. Nothing sounds interesting and challenging. I want to do something different! I always get so bored at home. 
Jane: l heard a couple of girls down the hall from me talking the ocher day about some coot programs chey had gotten involved in. One of them was talking about how she went to teach classes on Ethics and Business Communication co university students in Benin. That's a country in western Africa -I checked the map. 
Mike: Are you serious?!? That is absolutely unbelievable! 
Jane; No kidding. And the ocher girl had been working as an intern in the offices of a crystal Lumpany rn Ireland. She couldn't believe how much she learned over the summer -and had fun at the same time. 
Mike: How can I get one of these teaching positions or internships?!? Sign me on right now! 
Applications for both International Internships and International Teaching Posititions are available the week of November 30 in L-058 COBA; Want to learn more? Contact th<: Notre Dame Council on International Business 
Development at nd.nddbd. l@nd.edu or at 631-9044. 
Memphis in the opetting round, and M~tt Santangelo led the Bulldogs ):vtth 16 points apiece. · '' 
Gonzaga was playint)ts third road game in ~il( clp,y§, and the travel appear'1'tlto take its,toll Iare i:r1,th1f~~~: A bask,2t ;py ~' 
·~y left Gonzaga 't 6'1 with 7:l8it(l p Bulldogs ditln'' until Sa:11~1,1:1:g~. q:111 free.thrqW§.wiptig.ne. remai.ning; 
Gonzaga made ori-tt 35 shots from tbe.fiel,µ; second half, inclt1d1fig 319[~ 17 from 3-pointntnge, . 
The Boilermakers,,trailed · early after hittingJu.sftvvi::l of their first seven shots. Gonzaga built its .biggest lead of the game 6.t rs...12 with 13:32 left in the half. 
The Boilermakers, ;wlro have lost only 1htee p.oxi,-: conference>gani.es ;,i.t .b.ornt:rr 
Tickets are $33 each and c:an· senior members of the '98 Irish be ordered at the Joyce Center team will be available for auto­second-lloor ticket window or by graphs on the concourse during phnne (VISA. Mastercard or the i·eception. There will be a American Express) by calling silent auction of Notre Dame 219-631-7356. Other questions football photographs and memo­should be directed to the Notrn rabilia during the reception. name athletic department at Steinbrenner put together thr 219-631-6107. group that purchased the 
In addition Lo Lile dinner, all Yankees in 1973 from CBS. 
¦ NFL 
Oilers hope to slip past Jets 
Associated Press 
NASllVILLE 
Pro Bowl satety Blaine Bishop definitely is out, and thr Tennessee Oilers' defense also might be missing starting tackle Josh Evans when the New York Jets visit Sunday. 
Coach Jeff Fisher doesn't sound very worried, though he calls the Jets (6-4) perhaps the biggest challenge his Oilers (6-4) have faced this season. 
"We'll have some people miss­ing that we've been counting on, but so far this year our backups have been able to step up and get it done," he said Wednesday. 
Rookie Perry Phenix, an undrafted free agent out of Southern Mississippi. already has filled in once this season for Bishop. Ile responded with nine tackles in the Oilers' victory at Pittsburgh Nov. 1. · 
Phenix resembles the three­time Pro Bowler in that both are punishing tacklers who like to hit, and Phenix has two inches and nearly 10 pounds on the 5­foot-9 Bishop. 
His biggest asset has been learning from Bishop, who tore a medial collateral ligament in his left knee last week. He is expected to miss at least two weeks. 
"Perry's got the ultimate role model in Blaine Bishop," said Greg Brown, the Oilers defensive backs coach. "Every day in the classroom, he studies what Blaine studies and sees what Blaine does on the field. Whenever he's had a chance, he's been able to take advantage of what Blaine has taught him." 

But the Jets feature a quarter­back in Vinny Testaverde who has thrown 10 touchdowns in his last four games against the Oilers. The Jets feature the AFC's top passing offense with 
233.3 yards a game, and Keyshawn Johnson and Wayne Chrebet have more than 40 catches each. 
Yankn(\ tPams under his dire<:­1.ion daimnd World Series titles in 1977, 1978, 1996, and 1998, claimed additional American League pennants in '76 and '81, won East Division titles in '80 i.Lnd '94 -and won mon: games in the l 980s than any otlrnr team in major league baseball. 
Phenix can cover receivers as well as he handles the run, but Brown said the Oilers will try to protect him as.much as they can. 
"We're not going to put the pressure on Perry to say 'The weight of the world is on your shoulders.· No, it's like you do your job. You're part of' the defense." Brown said. 
Fisher also is more hopeful about Evans, who has started every game this season at right tackle. Evans also injured the medial collateral ligament in his knee last week. He was listed as out for Sunday's game, but Fisher said he will be upgraded to questionable. 
SPRING BREAK'99 
BOOK SEARCH 
• Used, rare and out-of-print~ 
books 
• 
Initial cost of $~.00 s Nationally -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 111 Open noon to six Ill Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne 
South Bend, IN 466 I 7 
(219) 232-8444 
~1 

Special to The Observer 
George M. Steinbrenner lll. principal owner of th£' '98 World Champion New York Yankees baseball club, will serve as guest speaker for the 79th annual University of Notre Dame Football Ranquet. 
The banquet., sponsored by the Notre Dame Club or St. 
Joseph Valley. will be held on Friday. December 4, 1998, in the north dome of the Joyce Center on campus. A reception on the concourse· begins at 5:45 
p.m. and the dinner begins at 
7:00 p.m. 
The program will include a special tribute lo senior mem­bers or Lhe 1998 Irish squad. 
Recently overheard... Jane: Hey, Mike! How's it going? 


Thursday, November 19, 1998 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 

FOXTROT 
WoULD WtDOLE WolJLO WI DDLE 
wouLo JASoN Do
QUINC'( Ltl<E QUINCY Llk:E 
A iuMM'I' Rug? A l<tSS'Y Poo? ~i~~~-:.. You HINE
,J •:./ '/ AN'( IDEA 
DILBERT 
How ANNoYtNE, \I THAT IS To ' L))J.LISTEN To?,? 
I ••• 
agreements if you don't get involved easily let secret information out ,,f tlw in joint financial deals. Keep your bagOOOO money and rour possessions in a sale PISCES (Feb. 19-March 201: Low place and set out to enjoy your day. and romance are el"ident. You will 
000 
meet new potential mates thn>ugh LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Your abili­friends or relati\'es. Take some time t,, ty to get into the swing of things will catch up on your c,wrespondenn' 00 

... 
•· 
c.. 


E 
0 
u 

'(00 C~LL 'THAT 
0•
@J 

(;RE~THlNG ?1 !
g
.. 
".. 

GE'T THE 
s:: 
0 
..(J 

OTHER NOSTRlL 
E 
INVOLVED!
0 
0 
t:: 
/~
CII 
i .c 
cl 
E 
! 
~ 
";, 
"' 
!
, 
;;
•
u. 
" ~ 
c 
:, 
<O 
g: 
" 

t,<> 
.... 
0 
c 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
be your saving granl. ~et out and gl•t involved. Alterations rq1;arding ,·our status and emotional well-being should be rn, surprise. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): II ,s 
best to put rour energy into catching 
up on overdue correspondence or 
into taking short tnps. Fric•nds ma)' 
anger you today Ai·oid making dras­
tic changc•s for the \\'rnng reasons. 00 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Oct, 22): YolJ will 
be e1notional when it comL·s to jnint 
finances, Don't lend or borm\'\' n"lonev 
or possessions. Extra,·agancr cm luxU­
ry items or entL'rtainm~nt will c:aus-..1 
undo stress. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can get 1111•0)\'l'd in ,cll-11nprowmen1 projects. Sports events and socializing will bring you in contact with rll'VI romantic partners. Younger relatives may need your ad\'lCe. 000 
SAGITTARIUS (:'IJov. 22-Dec. 211: Take care of domestic duties and deal with older family nwmbers. Properly investments will pa\' off. Don't get involved in gossip or secret affairs 
000 
CAPRICORN <Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Spend time on the projects th,11 1dl bring you rewards. Don't make hasty decisions that you \\·ill li\'e to regret. Drastic measures wW not bt> to \'Our advantage when dealing with young­sters. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 11 is best to put your efforts ,nto complet­ing unfinished projects and working 

13ILLAMEND 
AN INKLING, 
PERHAPS. 
j 
SCOTT ADAMS 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Ted TurnN, Jodie Foster, Meg 
Ryan, Larry King 
Happy Birlhday: Your desires will not go unnoticed this year if you let your do-or-die attijude lead you to the winner's circle. You have what it takes to be great, but no one will know it if you don't share your accomplishments. Stop living in the back room of life and make your way to the front of the crowd. You have nothing to hide and everything to gain 1/ you put yourself ,n the limelight. Your numbers: 7, 17, 30, 35, J9, 46 
ARIES (March 21-ApriJ 19): Your high energy level must be well-direct­ed. Clear up overdue wrrespondence. Cunnect with those you haven't talked to in some time. Work quietly on small but important details. 
00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Op­p_ortunities for new relationships will develop through acquaintances made while involl'ed in group projects. Pro­fessional and personal responsibilities mav interfere with one another. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Work­related matters will backfire if you have involved yourself in gossip. Your reputation is at stake, and sup<•­riors will be judging you on your performance. Don't divulge your intentions. 000 

CANCER (June 21-July 22): Romance can be yours if you get out and socialize. You won't have dis­


¦ Tennessee and 
¦ Indians trade out­

---
Kentucky prepare for 
fielder Brian Giles to 

the big matchup this 
the Pirates for reliever 

weekend 
Ricardo Rincon. 

PORTS 
p.17 
p.15 

·page 20 
Thursday, November 19, 1998 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Lady Irish continue excellent play, beat Butler 71-60 
# 
·• 
Most of her attack· was accom­plished in the first half, as she amassf\d 1 5 of her 2 3 in the opening 20 minutes. 
The Bulldogs cut the early lead to within six before Green landed two layups and a jumper to help widen the lead to 31-22 at the half. 
Jennifor Marlow brought Butler to within threP points in the middle of the second half, leading thP run with eight points. The Irish responded with a sprint of their own. as captain Sheila McMillen netted six in her team's 12-2 run that brought play to the l'inal live minutes. Leading by 13, the Bulldogs did not get closer than six as the clock ended Butler's chances. 
McMillen finished the 
, game with 14 points, while center Huth Hiley added 13 along with six boards. Forward Kelley Simeon led the work on the boards with a total of nine. Marlow led the points for Butler with 18. 14 of which came in the second half. 
Observer Staff Report 
In their first gnmP on the road, the Irish dominated in much the same way as they did last Saturday at home against UCLA. Notre Dame jumped out to an early 11-0 lead and never looked back despite Butler surges that narrowed the gap. De-spite not being able to keep a consis­tent lead, coach Muffet McGraw's team ended up with a 71-60 win. 
Guard Danielle Green led the team, matching her totals from the 99-82 win against the Bruins with 23 points. 

The Observer/Jett Hsu Niele Ivey and the Notre Dame women's basketball team defeated Butler 71-60 yesterday evening. Danielle Green led the team with 23 points in the game. 
¦ VOLLEYBALL 
Irish defeat Rockets to celebrate Senior Night 

1. Purdue 1-0 987 5 2. Connecticut 2·0 986 3 
2

3. Louisiana Tech 0-0 949 
1

4. Tennessee 1·1 929 5. No. Carolina 2~0. 734 10 
4

6. Duke 1-1 723 7. Geogia 0-0 722 7 8. Virginia 1-0 684 8 9. Alabama 2-0 654 9 10. Rutgers 2-0 594 12 11. Notre Dame 1-0 565 17 
14

12. Texas Tech 0-0 517 13. Geo Washington 0-1 515 13 14. UCLA 1-0 510 6 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Irish prepare for LSU's Faulk 
By TIM CASEY Sports Writ~r 
Throughout the season, Notre Dame has faced some of the nations top running backs. Michigan State's Sedrick Irvin, Arizona State's JR Redmond and Boston CoI!ege's Mike Cloud have all given the Irish defense headaches. 
The trend should continue this week against LSU and their rn ulti-dimensional.. star Kevin Faulk. 
A starter since the second game of his freshman season. the explosive Faulk has emerged as LSU's leading career rusher. He ranks secw ond in Southeastern Conference history in rushing and is the conferent::e's all­time leader in all-purpose yards. 
Faulk came into the season as one of the Heisman trvphy front-runners, Whilo not being currently mentioned for Heisman candidacy, he has put together another solid season, rushing for l ,077 yards and ranking third in the nation ln a.II-purpose yards. 
Hfl is also a threat catching the ball out of the backfield. Faulk currently ranks third on the team in receptions with 22 and has caught an additional three touchdown receptions totali.ng thirteen touchdowns on the season. Notre Dame defensive; coordinator Greg Mattison is impressedwith 
Faulk's pass.catching abili­ties. 
"He has great hands;" said Mattison. 'That's what makes him a complete player;" 
With his toughness and quick feet, Faulk has been compared to Notre Dame's own career rushing leader Autry Denson. Both have siml· lar statistics (Fat1lk has rushed for 163 more'yards in his career) and bodies (they both stand 5-10 with Denson being ten pounds heavier), and have been the focal point of their team's offense for the past three seasons. Mattison feels this comparison is valid. 
"He's (Faulk) a great back, a great running back,'' stated Mattison, "He's got great feet. He reminds. me of Autry Denson. Both are similar ­strong, good backs who can really cut." , 
In last season's twomeet~ ings with Notre-Dame, Faulk wasn't at100 percent but still managed to rush for 105 yards in the Irish's stunning 24-6 win in Louisiana. Despite F.aulk's injury in L$U's Independence ffowFvictory; Irish c'oaoh BobJ)avie has seen enough ofhim Jo know he's special. 
"T rernemher when K9vin came up here for his visit wh(;.il he was a senfor in high school/' said Davie at Tuesday's press. conference.
~We knew, then thaVheJvas a. ; .....,,........,._....,-.....,.._....,.....__....,.....,,,,,_~ great football player. fle.J1as a see FAULK/ page 15 
lot of charisma and is really an outstanding young man.'' While Faulk is the main 
otiensive threat for the Tigers. ·there are several other skill position players who possess great ability and wiU chal~ lenge theirish, Senior quar­terback Herb Tyler has start~ ed since the end of.his fresh­man campaign and so farthis year has passed for 1,.832 yards with 16 touchdowns and five interceptions. He has completed over 60 percent of his passes and,· similar to Jarious Jackson, is a nmlti..: dimensional quarlerback who can run the football. Sophomore Abram Booty and junior Larry Foster are Tyler's favorite receivers and each has 44 receptions on the seaw son. 
Backup tailback Rondell Mealey combines with Faulk to give LSU one of the best tandems of running backs in the country. The Irish know MeaJeyall too well. In last year's Independence Bowl match-up, while subbing for the tnjured Faulk,. Mealey rush~d for 222 yards _on hi~ way to offensive game MVP 
, honors. 
Davie has shown high praise, for the Tigers offense. "Qn nffense, certainly they have·a lot of explC>sive players injµst~bout every skill position," .gesaid'. ''Tailbacks are both,. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports W rirer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team used the emotion of Senior Night and a definite height advantage to win its final regular-season match over the Toledo Rockets. 
The Fighting Irish (14-12, 9­
2) made it a crowd-pleasing match for the Joyce Center fans, earning the victory in three consecutive games: 15-5, 15-10, 15-9. 
The Irish dominated game one, with Toledo scoring only two points before the Irish were on game point. 
They came out strong in game two, jumping out to a 10-1 lead, but lost their momentum mid­way through the game. They were ultimately able to close the game out on serves by sophomore Jo Jameyson and freshman Kristy Kreher. 
"Maybe we just got a little bit confident," said head coach Debbie Brown. "l feel like I need to keep some (oO the pres­sure on them and the intensity." 
Game three went back and forth throughout the match, with neither team really taking control until the end. Finally, the Irish went ahead 11-9, and prevented Toledo from scoring the rest of the match. 
Notre Dame hit .345 in the match, far better than the Rockets' .124. 
Notre Dame has seven players who are over six feet tall, while Toledo has just one. The height difference helped the Irish to tally 13 blocks, while Toledo had just one. 
Sophomore outside hitter Christi Girton helped the Irish put the match out of reach for the Rockets. Girton was the player to stop on offense, and a force to contend with on defense. She hit an outstanding .517 on offense, recording 18 of Notre Dame's 51 kills. Defensively, she led the Irish with 10 digs. 
Jameyson added 10 kills and eight digs, while classmate Michelle Graham had 36 assists at the setter position. Krehcr made major contributions com­ing off the bench, getting seven kills on .389 hitting and adding seven digs. Senior middle block­er Lindsay Treadwell had nine digs for the Irish and assisted on six blocks. 
"Christi Girton is hitting very effectively right now," said Brown. "I think both Kristy Kreher and Jo Jameyson played well for us in game two. We need to have not just the starters, but the pnople coming off the bench playing well." 
Middle blocker Cori 13eglc was the most consistent player for the Rockets, with 11 kills on .280 hitting. Emily Konczal had 11 digs, and Aziza Hill added 10 kills. With the loss, Toledo dropped to 3-26 on the year. 
Prior to the start of the 
see VOLLEYBALL/ page 19 

vs. LSU Basketball
SPORTS 
Saturday, 1:30 p.m. at Vanderbilt Saturday, 7:30 p.m. vs. Western Michigan
ATA 

Soccer NCAA Tournament Friday, 7 p.m. Second Round vs. vs. Pittsburgh
GLANCE 
Nebraska Saturday, 7 p.m. 




