
... 
Tuesday, April28, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 133 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Bulgarian top grad atSMC 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Saint Mary's News Editor 
Rossitsa Stoyanova is unique in many ways. Not only is she the valedictori­an of this year's graduat­ing class at Salnt Mary's College, but she is also not from the array of cities in the U.S. f r o m which Saint Marv's draws most of its studerits. 
Hailing from Stara Zagora, Bulgaria, Stoyanova decided to corne to Saint Mary's because she wanted to be able to con\inue to utilize the English language. 
"I decided to come to the states to study business and wanted to use lhe English language too," Stoyanova said. 
Another draw for Stoyanova to study outside her country were the many scholarships offered l() · international students. 
''There are more scholar­ships offered for interrla~ tiona! students. Saint Mary's offers one scholar­ship a year for internation­al students and I applied for it and receivedit," she said. 
When she arrived at Saint Mary's as a fresh­man, she had never visited the College and had only seen a few pictures and read some information about the school. 

"I didn't have any specif­ic expectations ·of the College. It was hard in the beginning since I was in a totally different setting and there weren't many 
see SMC f page 4 
Senator, NBA star joins ND faculty 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 

Bill Bradley, a former Democratic sena­tor from New Jersey, will join the N·otre Dame faculty next semester as a visiting professor. 
Bradley, who has served 18 years in the 
U.S. Senate, written three books, won two National Basketball Association champi­onships and received a Rhodes Scholarship, will teach and lecture as a professor of public affairs in the Hesburgh Program for Public Service. 
"I am excited about this opportunity to visit one of America's great universities," said Bradley. "Notre Dame has an out­standing faculty and student body, and I look forward to my interaction with both." 
The former senator will teach a one­credit course on issues of current political and historical interest, according to Mary Pugel, executive assistant to the provoiit. Bradley will also conduct five or six open lectures during his time at Notre Dame and plans to interact as much as possible with students and faculty. 
"He's agreed to make himself as avail­able as possible to student groups and faculty," commented Pugel. 
This interaction will be supplemented 
· with a series of mini seminars, or small group sessions focusing on topics of national concern. The seminars will cover many of the topics Bradley has worked on since his retirement from the Senate in 1997, including America's role in the world, the changing global economy, improving race relations in the U.S., and the search for meaning in life beyond the material level. 
However, Bradley's dealings with stu-· dents will not be confined to the class­room. 
"He hopes to meet with students in all kinds of settings -at athletic events, ·in dorms and in1 the student union, said Ed Turlington, Bradley's chief of staff. 
According to Pugel, the former senator was brought to Notre Dame through the efforts of the provost's office and a close friendship with a member of the Board of Trustees. 
"It has been the desire of Provost [Nathan] Hatch to bring as many national figures as possible onto the faculty to interact with the commu­nity," stated Pugel. She also noted a connection between the former sen­ator and a board of trustees mem­ber which "served to introduce Bradley to Notre Dame." 
Bradley. who is reportedly consid­ering a run for the Presidency in 2000, has spe_nt the last year as a visiting professor at Stanford University, where he has taught in the Institute for International Studies. Additionally, he has deliv­ered a series of public lectures simi­lar to the ones planned for next fall. 
Since leaving the Senate, he has worked with a number of business and nonprofit organizations, served as an essayist at CBS News and taught at the University of Maryland. 
Bradley was a three-time basket­ball All-f,.merican at Princeton University, from which he graduated 
in 1965. A member of the gold-medal win­ning 1964 U.S. Olympic basketball team, he played for the New York Knicks from 1967 until 1977, winning two NBA titles during that time. 
In 1965, the former senator received a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford University 

• 194~ -~ornin Crystal City, Mo. 
•1964 -~pldMedaf,Joky()Oiympics 
··:···:::q 
•1965 
-GraduatedPrinceton -~!'nor.~ in Ait)~rican.History 

• 
1965 -Rhodes Scholar at Oxford 

• 
1967-77 i Played for the NY Knicks 

•1967-78r-Air 
Force Reserve 

•1978-96.Y-u~s. 
Senator (3 terms) 


The Observer/Melissa Weber 
where he earned a graduate degree for study in politics, philosophy and econom­ics. Upon entering the Senate in 1979, Bradley worked on legislation covering a wide range of areas, including tax reform, international trade and education and improved race relations. 
G
erman. the­ologians (left to right) Hanspeter Heinz, Hans Hermann Henrix, Manfred Desselars, Bertold Klappert and Peter Von Der Osten­Sacken discuss the holocaust during yester­day's holocaust conference activ­ities. 
See story on page 3. 


Regulations fail to stop tobacco use in baseball 
Editor's note: This is the first Fenway Park's Green Monster 
has one of the lowest percent­to another Irish baseball player. in a two-part series considering and the hallowed walls of ages of players who chew than Since most players have the extent oftobacco use on cam­Chicago's Wrigley Field. any team I've been on," he already picked up the smokeless pus and its effect on stzident life. In collegiate baseball, players explained. tobacco habit upon entering the 
do use smokeless tobacco, "About 70 percent of the guys college baseball ranks, the By ALLISON KRILLA despite Rule 3, Section 10 of the on my summer league team dip, effects of major league dippers Associate Sports Editor 1998 NCAA baseball rule book: although everyone's pretty dis­on them are limited. 
"The use of all tobacco prod­creet about it," he added. But college players began 
In Major League Baseball sta­ucts is prohibited during practice It is in these baseball summer chewing tobacco after seeing the diums across the country, bat­sessions and game competition leagues, where each league has Lenny Dykstra's and Darryl ters step into the box, eye the by student-athletes, coaches, individual rules, that visible Strawberry's with cheeks full of defensive alignment. and take a trainers and umpires." smokeless tobacco use among dip on national television. few practice swings before cock­Ramifications for an infraction chew, but among college teams college-age players increases. "I think when you're younger ing their heads to spit a gob of of this rule include dismissal and even in the minor leagues While umpires are essentially you emulate your heroes, and brown liquid on the dirt. from the session or ejection from [where tobacco use is banned] responsible for enforcing the some of the most notable base­
The bulge between their the contest. it's hard to enforce," said one tobacco ruie, college coaches do ball players are the most notice­cheeks and gums is smokeless But the possible consequences member of the Notre Dame feel a responsibility to keep the able users," the first Notre Dame tobacco, commonly known as have not deterred all collegiate baseball team requesting habit under control, distributing player said. dip, snuff or chew. baseball players from dipping. anonymity. literature received from the 
And its effects reach beyond "Coach [Mainieri] doesn't let us "Notre Dame's baseball team NCAA to their players, according 
see TOBACCO I page 4 



family 
I've found a new Colleen McCarthyfamily since I began 

Saim Mary's News Editor
my freshman year in August. Over the past eight months. this family has evolved and changed in many ways. Overall, the family has become much closer and has helped me to beeornn a better person and learn more about myself. llowevnr, I don't think that this experience is unique to mo. but happens to many people with the "family" of friends that they make in college. 
Do you remember the first time when you didn't feel alone at college and it truly began to feel like a home'? For me, this experience took place at the Stanford Christmas Mass the weekend before the start of exams. I was feel­ing extremely stressed out and a little home­sick because it was hard to be away from my family and all of the traditions that led up to Christmas whieh we had always celebrated together. 
As Ijoined hands with my group of friends 
Frat receives suspension after beating of two students 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
A revenge attack early Friday morn­ing resulted in the beating of two stu­dents and a black eye for Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. 
The fraternity, also known as Pikes, was suspended Friday pending a uni­versity investigation, said Dean of Students Bill Hiley. 
Police allege that Jeffrey Hajski and several other Pikes forced their way into an apartment in Champaign, beat­ing two residents and damaging prop­erty in the apartment. 
Rajski served as president of Pikes this year, but elections within the house to choose a new president were held last week. so it is undear if he is still serving as an officer, Hiley said. 
Police believe the attack was in retal­iation for a fight that occurred Thursday evening. 
The two victims, both members of Beta Theta Pi fraternity, were treated 

Rajski was arrested on charges of home invasion, aggravated battery, mob action and criminal damage to property. This constitutes a Class X felony and carries a possible penalty of six to 30 years in prison. Police are still investigating to determine who else was involved. 
Hajski refused to comment on the sit­uation beyond saying he is trying to cooperate with authorities as much as possible and has not hired a lawyer. 
Tom Betz. director of Student L1~gal Service, said the s11rvice does not defend students in Class X fi1lony eases. 
Hiley said Hajski will be n1ferred to the university disciplinary otlice along with anyone else who is {(JUnd to have been involved. lie said an investigator has been appointed and the investiga­tion should be complete by today or tomorrow. 
If more than two fraternity members are implicated in the attack, it could be considered a fraternity activity, said .Jim Dobrovolny, president of the University Board of Fraternity All"airs. 
"If it's determined to be a fraternity activity, the University could request 
that  their  charter  be  revoked,"  
Dobrovolny said.  
Dobrovolny  said  the  Board  of  

Fraternity Affairs will hear the case within 10 days. 
during the "Our Father" prayer, the feeling of 
being alone disappeared. It's difficult to 
describe the feeling, but as I held their hands, 
I knew that we were connected. We were 
beginning to form a bond that would strength­
en even more during second semester. 
This semester, our family has begun to 
grow even closer. These are the people who I 
have spent so many nights with laughing and 
crying; laughing about memorable SYH 
moments or two of us comforting a friend as 
she cried on the steps of the dining hall late 
one night when the world just seemed to be 
giving her too much to take. 

The group of people whom I call my family 
have taught me what a true friend is. I 
thought I had true friends in high school, but 
then I came here and learned that I define 
"friend" differently now. Because I have 
shared so many significant experiences with 
them this year and livn with some of them, my 
college frinnds arc on a different level than 
my friends from high school. 

From my family I have learned that a friend 
should be happy for you if you are happy. 
Friends should look out for each other and 
always be there to talk. no matter how late it 
is or how much work you have due the next 
day. I've also seen this group of friends pull 
together in a crisis and support each other 
and the person who was involved in the 
dilemma, going above and beyond what I ever 
imagined pnople would do fi>r each other. 
My family has also taught me that there arc 
two Stanford boys who make good sandwich­
es, Morrissey boys are always there to help 
you relieve stress during finals. ladies' nights 
are incredibly important and if you live in a 
suburb of Chicago, you should never, ever say 
that you are from Chicago, as there is suppos­
edly a major dilli~renee. 

As I think baek to the day that I arrived at college, I don't know that I ever imagined I would make the kind of friends that I have. However, now that I am finishing up my first year. I think that coming to college, you are forced to red1)fine yourself. The values and morals that you have had instilled in you are strntched and challenged; and the friends that you begin to make your family arc inevitably a part of helping you through that. My friends, who arc my family, have made me a better person. This creates a bond like no other. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TooAv's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Bill Uniowski  Emmett Malloy  
Colleen McCanhy  Graphics  
Anne !Iosinski  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Shannon Ryan  Anthony Bianco  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Jo Mikals-Adachi  

The Ob,crvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A~sociatcd Press. All rcproducrion rights arc reserved. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA 
False report leads to arrest of student 
CHAHLOTTESVILLE, Va. 

University police arrested second-year college student 
Catherine Pollock yesterday for filing a false report that 
said she was assaulted March 26 at Cauthen House. 
Pollock was arrested at the university police station 
after police issued a warrant and notified her family, 
Pollock's attorney Willis Spalding said. She claimed she 
was attacked in Cauthen's first-floor bathroom after 
receiving threatening e-mail letters. Police responded to 
the reported assault by setting up an 10 check at the 
dormitory's front door to secure the building from 
unregistered students or guests. The service was discon­
tinued after police issued a statement accusing Pollock 
of falsifying her report. University police Sgt. Tom 
Durrer said Pollack is accused of a Class I misdemeanor 
and, if convicted, faces up to 12 months in jail and/or a 
$2,500 fine. "This arrest brings the case to closure as 
far as [the university police] arc concerned," university 
police chief Mike Sheffield said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYlVANIA Applications to urban Ivies increase 
PHILADELPHIA. Penn. 

Urban universities seem to be the genre of choice for this 
year's batch of Ivy League pre-frosh. As a result of increased 
applications, Columbia University in New York City, 
University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia and New Haven, 
Conn.'s Yale University have all been able to increase their 
selectivity this year, with Columbia in the lead. "I think 
we're seeing that the urban institutions in the Ivy League 
seem to be leading the way in the past few years," said 
Columbia director of undergraduate admissions Eric Furda. 
"Families arc finally willing to give us a chance by visiting 
urban campuses." While Columbia accepted 17.5 percent of 
last year's applicant pool. the admissions oflice only sent out 
acceptance letters to 14.2 percent of this year's pool. 
Although Penn's 29 percent acceptance rate was the sec­
ond-highest in the Ivy League this year, Penn also had the 
second-highest increase in selectivity in the Ivies. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
·······················iH 
L 

Tuesday -(f 60 35 Wednesday -(f 68 41 
Thursday  4, 67 48  
Friday  Q  66 48  
~67  46  

4,~,~A.88~~u 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph/csNet 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, April 28. 
7 5 60s Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 
FRONTS: 
~ ............._ ......ar 
• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Student dies in motorcycle accident 

AMES, Iowa 
An Iowa State student was killed in a car-motorcycle 
accident that occurred Friday in the 100-bloek of Lynn Avenue shortly after noon. Timothy Widmer, 20, a sophomore in pre-business and member of Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, was pronounced dead at the sccnn by Story County medical examiners after his motorcycle collided with an oncoming car driven by another ISU student. According to Ames police, Widmer's motoreyele struck a car that was turning into a parking lot ofT Lynn Avenue at 12:04 p.m. The driver of the car, Michael Przytarsky, was not injured. No charges currently have been filed against Przytarsky, 22, a junior in finance and member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. An Ames police officer said about three or four officers are investigating the incident, and that fatality accidents typically take longer than other eases to examine. lie said the investigating officers arc taking measurements and developing draw­
ings of the scene. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAUFORNIA-BERKHEV AIDS activists protest Shalala visit 

BEHKELEY, Calif. 
AIDS activists gathered on campus on Friday for the visit 
of U.S. Secretary of Ilealth and Iluman Services Donna 
Shalala, denouncing the Clinton administration's recent 
refusal to fpdcrally fund needle exchange programs. Shalala 
came to Zellerbach Hall as the keynote spmtkcr at the inau­
guration of UC Berkeley chancellor Hobert Berdahl. About 
50 protesters gathered outside the auditorium before the 
inauguration to listen to speakers who challenged Shalala's 
role in denying the funding for the programs. Needle 
exchange programs exist to allow the nxdumge of dirty nee­
dles for dean ones by heroin addicts throughout the coun­
try. The programs fn~qwmtly otrer safe-sex supplies, fren 
HIV tests and JTII)dical intervention ainwd toward the mha­
bilitation and recovery of addicts. A long-lasting ban on f(ld­
eral funding of needle exchange programs is based on the 
argument that such programs promote drug use. 
COLO WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWesther, Inc. 

?r'"'i_ B ESl [D) 0 !ZJ 8 ~ ~ U 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vis Associaled Press  
Anchorage  46  28  Dallas  70  
Atlanta  68  56  Honolulu  78  
Boston  56  45  Las Vegas  52  
Charleston  68  44  Los Angeles 86  
Chicago  62  40  Miami  84  

. . 
"'-""~ 

--·-. -----.. 
51 Milwaukee 58 41 62 New Orleans 74 65 39 Philadelphia 64 44 60 Phoenix 89 65 72 Seattle 74 50 
Tuesday, April 28, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Artist interprets Holocaust through sculpture 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
By providing a bit of comic relief after a long day of tack­ling hard questions, artist George Segal eapped off the second day of the Holocaust conference last night. Although he turned somber when the conversation turned to the heavy issues of the Ilolocq.ust, Segal's sense of humor helped his audience look at the day's tough ques­tions from another perspec­tive. 
Segal, whose life-size memo­rial sculptures include tributes to Holocaust victims, Pranklin 





DAYOrC S 

co 

@AL 
Roosevelt and the four stu­dents killed in the Kent State riots, began his lecture last evening by thanking the day's earlier speakers for their intel­lectual contributions to the Holocaust conference and jok­ing about his own difficulties in matching their objective presentations. 
"My job is not to be objec­tive. My job is not to be ratio­nal. I have to tackle the prob­lems of making an artwork. That has problems and boy, does it have virtues," he said. 
Segal spoke briefly about the process all artists go through when starting out, which includes finding their own ian­guage and a way to express that to a larger audience. 
"Anybody who makes arts has to air own feelings. It's a mystical process. You have to learn how to relax in it," Segal said. "Each artist has to strug­gle with discovering a lan­guage that's capable of point­ing to a sensitive, intelligent viewer what the artist is think­ing and feeling. That's not simple." 
Born in 1924 in the Bronx, Segal is the son of Jewish immigrants who escaped near­certain death in Russia by flee­ing to New York in 1922. Segal's father, who became a chicken farmer in New Jersey 



CBLBBBATB 
·SR. CLUB WITH 


BUY YOUR CLASS I-SHIRTS 
} SPONSOREI) CLASS OF 
A/S CLUB 

after Segal's birth, left behind six brothers in Russia. All six brothers, including their wives and all their children, were later killed by the Nazis. During World War I, Segal's mother maintained correspon­dence with family members still in Europe. 
"She heard in her letters what was never being printed in the American newspapers, so I had that kind of family background," Segal said. 
Although he grew up with that background, he was not eager to memorialize the Holocaust through his work as a sculptor. When talk began of 
a Holocaust Memorial in San Francisco, Segal dodged the project. 
"I didn't want to go into competition with my friends and I didn't want to steep myself in this despair," he said. 
But after meeting with a sur­vivor, Segal realized the importance of such work. 
"I had promised a survivor I would stop in San Francisco to talk with him, which I did, and it was my undoing," Segal recounted with a smile. 
Segal recruited friends to pose as models for the sculp­ture and studied photographs of people in concentration camps. 
"The photographs were enough to make you vomit. The intensity of the identifica­tion -these could have been me or my relatives -they had an intense impact on me," he said. 
Segal's sculpture includes numerous victims lying dead on the ground, with one sur­vivor standing behind a barbed wire fence. For the vic­tims on the ground, Segal chose to feature "the collapsed history of the Jews," including renditions of Adam and Eve, Abraham and Isaac, and Jesus Christ. 
About eight years ago, van­
dals sprayed Segal's finished 
white ·bronze memorial with 
black spray paint and wrote in 
that paint "Is this necessary?" 
"My answer was 'Dammit, 
yes,"' Segal said. 

In response to Segal's deter­
mination to clean up the paint 
and defend his work, Jewish 
visitors began mimicking a 
Jewish custom of leaving small 
stones on the gravestones of 
loved ones. What began with a 


W!..cr: t997-98 etu-6 011<-c:-•n• 
St<J4e"": Apt-. 28, 4:00-S:OOp""'­

pile of small stones under the memorial's barbed wire fence caught on and soon flowers began appearing in the sculp­ture's outstretched hands. Eight years later, that practice continues, according to Segal. 
Monday's conference ses­sions began with an examina­tion of the relationships between Jews and Gentiles in East and Central Europe. After lunch, four theologians from Germany presented papers on the current relations between Jews and Christians in that country. Hanspeter Heinz, a Catholic theologian, spoke on the guilt, suffering and recon­ciliation of the Holocaust, and how the Church can deal with that guilt and its responsibili­ties. 
Hans Hermann Henrix, another Catholic theologian, also touched on that guilt while speaking on the impor­tance of Christians remember­ing Auschwitz and all that it stands for. 
As a Protestant theologian, Bertold Klappert addressed the issues of Christology after the Shoah [Holocaust]. He also spoke on the covenant between God and Israel, and what that means to Christians. 
Although striking differences 
remain between Jews and 
Christians, the pain of the 
Holocaust can serve as a meet­
ing ground, according to the 
final presenter of that session, 
a Protestant theologian named 
Peter Von Der Osten-Sacken. 
Osten-Sacken also discussed 
the role of the Christian 
churches in failing to do more 
to prevent the Holocaust. 
The next session dealt with 
aesthetic representations of 
the Holocaust and included 
presentations by three schol­
ars. John Felstiner, a profes­
sor of literature at Stanford 
University, gave a multi~media 
presentation including poetry 
and music from the Holocaust. 
Marcia Landy, a professor of 
film studies at the University 
of Pittsburgh, discussed the 
contrasts between popular 
Holocaust films such as 
Schindler's List and less well­
known works that serve more 
as documentaries. 
The third presentation, 
delivered by Alan Mintz, dealt 
with literature of the 
Holocaust. Mintz is a profes­
sor of literature at Brandeis 
University. 
Tomorrow's Observer will be the final issue for the academic year. Look for the Senior Week ISSUe On Friday, May 15. 
251-0674 
IIATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy• Delicious 



page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
guers, they're making their own decisions," the seeond player

Notre Dame ranked by Tobacco 
said.

SMC 
But the seeds have alreadycontinued from page 1 

been planted. 

continued from page 1 
Yahoo! 'wired' report 
And sometimes the only thing 

Bulgarians or international students lwre," she said. "For the first couple of months, I hardly talked to anyone." 
llowever, Stoyanova has overcome the difficulties that she had freshman year in adjusting. 
"I definitely think I got a quality education but at first. I regretted there were few international students here. But now, I think it was for the best. I have made so many friends and the teachers and staff have been so wonderful," Stoyanova said. 
Stoyanova normally goes home once a year in the summer and spends the rest of the breaks with friends and staff from Saint Mary's. 
"It's been great going horne with friends. My first year here. I felt like I wouldn't fit in and now I do. Now I know I can relate to people from different cul­tures. People are the same everywhere," she said. ''I've never regretted corning to Saint Mary's because the people have been so helpful and caring but at the same time they push and chal­lenge you." 
She points to a recent act by Susan Vance, a professor in the business administra­tion and economics depart­ment at Saint Mary's which demonstrah~s how the fac­ulty has gone above and beyond to make help her. 
Stoyanova's parents, who live in Bulgaria will be unable to attend the eom­mericernent ceremony. However, Vance and other professors from the busi­ness department wrote a letter to her parents telling of her achievements and honors. They then had the letter translated into Bulgarian so her parents would be able to read it. 
"My parents were thrilled," she said. "This is an example of the profes­sors going out of their way to help me." 
Patti Valentine, director of public relations at Saint Mary's is another person who has reached out to Stoyanova during her time here. 
"Patti Valentine has been like family. She didn't even know anything about me but she invited me to come horne with her for Christmas break my sopho­
more  year  and  the  
Christmases  sinee  then  
too," Stoyanova said.  

MaryAnn Merryma.n. an assoeiate professor of busi­ness administration and economies at Saint Mary's has known Stoyanova since she was a freshman. 
"She has just been a delight to have in class," she said. "She took elasses as a freshman that wouldn't normally be taken until sophomore year but you would have never thought she was a freshman much less an international stu­dent." 
Merryman added, "She is so humble about her accomplishments because her expeetations are so high. For her. being vale­dictorian is not a big deal. The rest of us are almost tooting her own horn for her." 
Special to The Observer 
The May issue of Yahoo! Internet Life, a monthly jour­nal published by Ziff-Davis, Inc., ranks Notre Dame 31st in its 1998 survey of "America's 100 Most Wired Colleges." 
The magazine collected data from more than 400 colleges and universities and based its ratings on 22 factors orga­nized under four categories ­general service, aeademies, social life and computer sta­tistics. 
Notre Dame has "8,000 ports for 7,800 students, so users can get online form lit­erally anywhere," the maga­zine noted. 
The information technology resources at Notre Dame include HesNet, a $7.1 million computer network that pro­vides a port for every student living in a campus residence hall. as well as "cybereafe" 

Please recycle The Observer 

ports in LaFortune Student Center; DeBartolo Hall, recog­nized as one of the most tech­nologically advanced learning centers in higher education; and 11 public clusters with 830 computers. 
Yahoo! Internet Life also cited Notre Dame for support­ing and providing Internet training to students and facul­ty, online elass material, default e-mail aceounts, com­puter laboratories, and a high percentage of student home pages. 
Dartmouth College ranked first in the survey, followed by the New Jersey Institute of Technology, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, and the University of Illinois. 
Notre Dame's institutional home page is at http://www.nd.edu. Yahoo! Internet Life is at http://www.yil.com. 
"Tobacco use legitimizes itself to stop the cyele is a tragie story, in the baseball community," he like Bret Butler's fight with explained. Its popularity has throat cancer after only two expanded to include the kid­years of smokeless tobacco use. friendly chewing gum industry, "You sec stories like Butler's, where one manufacturer pro­and you realize that [cancer duces bubble gum in the texture from smokeless tobacco) is not of smokeless tobacco. just something you hear about 
"Once kids get to college, on the nnws, it happnns to real they're not looking to major lea-people," he said. 
Still need a job for the 1998-99 ~: academic year? 
Student Activities has extended 
the deadline for applications for: 
Stepan Center Building Managers Building Set Up Crew 24 Hour Lounge Monitors ND Cake Service Deliveries (must have car) 
Applications are available at 3 1 5 LaFortune. 
Deadline for applying is Wed, Apr. 29. 
{ 
Save on Graduation Gifts • Supplies for Finals Week Summer Clothing • General Reading Books • Software 


THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
"On the Campus" Phone: 631-6316 
www.ndbookstore.com 

Open 7 Days a Week! • Monday -Friday 9 am -7 pm Saturday 9 am -5 pm • Sunday 11 am -5 pm 

• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Heller denies plagiarism 
NEW YORK 

Joseph Heller and his publisher denied Monday that he plagiarized "Catch 22" from a novel published 10 years earlier. An ama­teur bibliophile wrote a letter to The Sunday Times of London two weeks ago noting "the amazing similarity of characters, personality traits, eccentricities, physical descriptions, personnel injuries and incidents" in Heller's 1961 book and "Face of a Hero" by Louis Falstein. The letter from Lewis Pollock led the Times and The Washington Post to investigate, driven in part by a Heller biog­raphy last month that quotes him as saying he had "borrowed" actions and settings from other writers. Heller told The Associated Press that he hadn't known of Falstein, who died in 1995, or read his book, which was published in England as "The Sky Is a Lonely Place." 
Court orders Japan to compensate WWII slaves 
TOKYO 

Bluntly condemning government policy, a 
court ruled Monday that .Japan must com­
pensate three South Korean women forced 
into sexual slavery for .Japanese soldiers 
during World War II. The ruling, the first in 
a lawsuit by former sex slaves, awarded the 
women the equivalent of $2,300 each. It was 
likely to profoundly affect five pending cases 
and could encourage others to file similar 
lawsuits . .Japan's government has refused to 
compensate individual war victims, arguing 
that postwar treaties settled all wartime 
claims. In his surprisingly sharp ruling, 
Yamaguchi District Court .Judge Hideaki 
Chikashita called the army's actions an 
example of sexual and ethnic discrimination 
and a "fundamental violation of human 
rights." 
No charges filed in Citadel assault 
CHARLESTON, S.C. 

A prosecutor said yesterday that no one will be charged for a reported sexual assault at The Citadel last November. A freshman cadet told authorities she was sexually assaulted in a barracks Nov. 2 by an upperclassman. Any sexual activity between cadets on campus is against the rules at the formerly all-male mil­itary school. But Solicitor David Schwacke said a prosecution is unwarranted. "It is clear that the evidence uncovered during the ... investigation would not result in a criminal conviction," Sehwacke said Monday. "After discussing this matter with the victim, we felt it best to conclude this matter without sub­jecting her to the further trauma of a trial." The male cadet in question voluntarily resigned from the college in mid-November. 
Nasdaq:

-146.98 1820.31 -48.65 

NYSE: 563.057 -11.42 
S&P 500: 

Composite1086.54 Volume:8917.64 -21.36 828,888,350 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COM!•ANY  I U'KtH  %(!IAN<,!­ $ (iAIN  
IMAGESYS  IM5G  218.18  3.000  
NEOPR()BE CORP  NEOP  55.56  2.190  
IIOM E CERTERS  IIOMEF  50.82  7.250  
PI.C SYSTEMS  PLC  44.44  5.500  
FLUKE CORP  FLK  31.49  7.310  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
CARIBINER INTL ewe 30.91 8.500 IDM ENVIRO IDMCW 30.23 1.630 US HOME CORP UHWS 21.09 5.310 INNOSERV TECH ISER 20.83 0.625 SIGNAL APPARAL SIA 19.05 0.500 
I•Rirt 
4.375 6.125 21.500 17.800 30.500 
19.000 3.750 19,900 2.370 2.130 

Guatemalan Bishop murdered 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 

GUATEMALA CITY 
On Friday, Bishop Juan Gerardi Conedera presented a scathing report on human rights violations during Guatemala's 36-year civil war. Late Sunday, the 75-year-old prelate was beaten to death with a concrete block. 
It was the first killing of a high-rank­ing church member in Central America since peace accords ended civil wars that wracked the region throughout the 1980s. 
Neither Roman Catholic church offi­cials nor prosecutors gave a motive Monday for the crime, in which some­one smashed Gerardi's head and left the body in a pool of blood in the garage of his residence at San Sebastian church. Nothing was stolen from the house. 
If the killing was retaliation for the report, it show$ that animosity from the civil war did not end with Guatemala's 1996 peace agreement. If it was a ran­dom attack, it is yet another manifesta­tion of the crime wave caused by the war's legacy of plentiful weapons, poverty and a culture of violence. 
Rev. Mario Orantes, a parish priest at San Sebastian, said he discovered Gerardi's body lying next to a bloodied concrete block about midnight. The face was so smashed in that he identi­fied the bishop by his ring. 
Gerardi, head of the Guatemala City archdiocese's human rights office, had issued a report Friday that blamed the army and its paramilitaries for nearly 80 percent of the killings during the war. 
Jose Miguel Vivanco, executive direc­tor of the Americas branch of Human Rights Watch, called the killing politi­cally motivated. 
"I can't believe this was just an isolat­ed common crime," he said from Washington in a telephone interview. 
"Nobody really expected this from today's Guatemala," Vivanco said. "Look at the success of the peace process, the fact that politically moti­vated crimes have decreased dramati­cally-almost to zero. 
"This is really a 'wakeup call," he said. "I think the agents linked to the security apparatus are still very much active." 
The head author of the report, Edgar Gutierrez, said the timing was suspi­cious, saying "we can't ignore" the fact that the report had just been released. 

The report, drawn up by Roman Catholic Church human rights agencies, stemmed from the peace accords. The agreements called for the conflict to be investigated to determine the truth for historical purposes. 
Jean Arnault, director of the U.N. mission for Guatemala, called the killing "a violent contrast, given that Gerardi was a man who played a role in the peace process." 
Attorney General Hugo Perez Aguilera called the crime "a vile mur­der," and said a police artist had drawn up a sketch of the male suspect from witnesses' descriptions. 
Guatemalan Archbishop Prospera Penados del Barrio said Gerardi's body would be laid out at the Guatemala City 

•CuBA 
Canada urges C_.......,....... 
ASSOCIATED PRESS · 
Backing dialogue over confrontation. Canada's prime.minister dis~:Ussed human rights with Fidel Castro on Monday, giving theCubaupresidept a list of four dissidents Canada woUld like to sf!e freed. . canadian ~,>rime Mirti!:lter Jean .. Chretien, one of.the most important ~~~tern visitors to Cuba i!l y~ars, said. he dedicate([about a third. of ~i~ ? Jj2~hourmeeting with Castro to rights 
" ·il4'ifP.iiilP.rl 
cathedral for three days before burial later this week. 
In Vatican City, the church's daily newspaper, L'Osservatore Romano, called the bishop "one of the most strenuous defenders of human rights during the bloody civil war." It said Pope John Paul II had met several times with Gerardi during the pope's 1996 visit to Guatemala. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan condemned the slaying "in the strongest terms" and expressed hope that "full light will soon be brought on the circumstances and motivations behind this brutal act." 
During the 1980s, Gerardi served as bishop of Guatemala's heavily Indian Quiche province, the scene of much of the fighting and many of the human rights abuses he described in Friday's report. 

Tuesday, April28, 1998

page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 


+ Campus Ministry This Week + 


OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 

Thursday, April30 and May 1, 4:00pm, Basilica 
Lector Auditions (Secniors): Baccalaureate Mass 
Monday-Wednesday, May 4-6, 9:00am-3:00pm Thursday, May 7th, 9:00 am-noon 103 Hesburgh Library 
Exam Break at Campus Ministry: Donut, Coffee and Lemonade! All are w-elcotne. 
Thursday, May 14, 9:15pm (following Seinfeld) 
ATTENTION, SENIORS!!!! Senior Last Visit to the Basilica and the Grotto 
Summer School Mass Sundays, starting June 7, 10:00 'Ptn Chapel of the Holy Cross (Keenan-Stanford Chapel) 
The Campus Ministry staff wants to thank all of you who have been a part of our ministry throughout the year. Notre Dame is truly blessed by the generosity of your time, energy and spirit. 
We wish all of you a wonderful summer ! 
Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Turtle Creek has "Two-RIFFle" news! We now have two bedroom townhomes available for the 98-99 school year! Townhomes will be rent­ed on a first-come first-serve basis, so hurry in and pick up your application today! Also, we have a limited number of studio and 1 bed­rooms available for the 98-99 school year as well! Turtle Creek Apartments: 272-8124 
For relaxation and great food with an almost forgotten style, come join us! 
-$5.00 off with this ad 
(Void 5-13 -5-16-98) 

Prof: Irish peace can succeed 
By SHANA'E TATE 
News Writer 
If the governments of Great Britain and Northern Ireland can approach the recent agreement with Ireland with an attitude of good will, then the agreement can work according to Margaret O'Callaghan, professor of Irish Studies. 
O'Callaghan, a visitng profes­sor from Queen's University in Belfast, spoke last night at Saint Mary's College regarding the recent agreement. 
"It is about re-defining a terri­torial problem of a divided peo­ple," said O'Callaghan. 
After eight months of discus­sion, an agreement on April 10 between the government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, Northern Ireland and the gov-. ernment of Ireland was reached in a multi-party negotiation regarding the troubles in Northern Ireland. 
"The agreement recognizes that Northern Ireland is a divid­ed society, and tries to accom­modate both sides," said Rosalind Clark, English depart­ment Chair at Saint Mary's. 
"Throughout the 1990s, there have been cross-community pro­jects to increase understanding between the fa,ctions, so I hope that this agreement will be more successful than the ones in the past." 
Leading groups such as Sinn Fein and the Ulster Unionists Party (UUP), along with other Irish political groups, came together for this agreement. Sinn Fein, which means in Gaelic, "We Ourselves," is an Irish Republican party and the oldest political party in Ireland, as well as an ally of the Irish Republican Army (IRA). Another group, the UUP is ran by David Trimble. The Democratic Unionists Party (DUP) is the north's most hard­line Protestant party and against the agreement. 
"[The agreement] is a major step towards unification between the North and the Republic of Ireland," said David Stefancic, associate professor of history at Saint Mary's. 
In this 67-page peace settle­ment, many points were estab­lished. One section discussed last evening was that the agreement will provide for a democratically elected assembly in Northern Ireland made up of 108 mem­bers. 
"[The agreement] did not come out of the blue. The short-term factors are cease-fires and labor majority government in Britain and United States intervention," said O'Callaghan. 
Another issue discussed by O'Callaghan, as stated in the agreement's declaration of sup­port, "we are committed to part­nership, equality and mutual respect as the basis of relation­ships within Northern Ireland, between North and South, and between these islands." 
"I think that it is a very compli­cated agreement and it can be interpreted in several different ways. It all depends on percep­tion and I think it is a move towards peace," said Erin Hall, a sophomore at Saint Mary's. 
As of May 22, the agreement must be in public referendums in both parts of Ireland. 
"The crucial date is in four weeks time when the results of referendum of the North and South will come in. If the union­ists block significant fragments and too large a section listens to Ian Paisley, then it will collapse," said O'Callaghan. . 
O'Callaghan is the author of "British High Politics and a Nationalist Ireland: Criminality Land and the Law under Forster and Balfour. "She teaches in the department of politics at the Queen's University of Belfast and is currently Visiting O'Donnell professor of Irish Studies and visiting associate professor of government at Notre Dame. 


For Reservations or Directions: 255-1526 100 Center Brewery off Lincolnway in Mishawaka. W-Th 5:00-9:00 Fri-Sat 5:00-10:00 

Thursday 4.30.98 9pm-midnight in the Huddle 
Thursday 
5.3.98 
9pm-12am 


Ballroom FREE 

Showing of Dazed & Confused Food & Drinks Lots of toys and games Dazed & Confused CD giveaway 

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, April28, 1998 

Unknown soldier 
may be exhumed 
Associated Press placed in the Tomb at Arlington 
National Cemetery, Va .. in 
WASHINGTON 1984. In separate crypts. 
Hemains of the Vietnam vet­guarded 24 hours a day. there Man in the Tomb of the arc also unidentified remains Unknowns should be exhumed from World War I, World War to determine if they belong to a II and the Korean War. downed Air Force pilot as his Circumstantial physical evi­family believes, a Pentagon dence found with the Vietnam panel said Monday. remains indicates they could be 
Defense Secretary William those of the St. Louis pilot, Cohen said he will decide in the whose A-37 attack plane was next two weeks whether to shot down over South Vietnam grant the request of Air Force in May 1972, Cragin said. 1st Lt. Miehael Blassie 's family However, other evidence to have the remains exhumed including blood type and physi­for possible identification. cal characteristics -based on 
"All we ever wanted was an old forensic methods -don't answer: Is that Michael Blassie match, he said. or not'?" said Pat Blassie, his The uncertainty led Pentagon 
sister and family spokeswoman. ollieials to decide the only way "And we truly believe it is." to know if they were Blassie's 
Cohen said he would not was to examine them using the decide until his general counsel latest scientific methods, investigates whether there's ineluding sophisticated mito­any legal obstaele to the ehondrial DNA matching, exhumation -something Cragin said. Pentagon offieials said they In theory, the remains could don't foresee. In any case, he belong to eight other Air Force told reporters, ''I'll have an or Army lighter and helicopter answer for you in about a week pilots who went down in the An or two." Loc area the same time as 
Charles Cragin, assistant sec­Blassie but whose bodies were retary. of defense for reserve never found, the Defense affairs. said a senior Pentagon Department said. working group he led deter· Older forensic evidence indi­mined after a four-month cated the remains were of a investigation that the remains man aged 26-33, between 5­-the pelvis, right upper arm {(JOt-5 1/2 and 5-foot-11 112 tall, and four ribs -should be and with type 0 negative blood. exhumed. Blassie, who was about six feet 
"There are concerns about tall and age 24, had type A pos­
the sanctity of the Tomb, but I itive blood. think on balance everyone Of the nine, Capt. Rodney came down to what is right," Strobridge, a 30-year-old Army Cragin said of the recommen­helicopter pilot from Ohio, most dation. "And what is right is to closely matched the forensic 
utilize the technology that evidence from the remains, exists to attempt to identify according to Cragin. He was 5­these remains." foot-9 and 30 years old with 
The Vietnam remains were type 0 negative blood. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association The Kellogg Institute for International Studies the Snite Museum ofArt and the Center for Social Concerns Proudly Present: 
(In Prelude to the All-African Student Conference May 8-10, 1998 at the Center for Continuing Education) 
Return to the Sources 
An African Art Exhibit and Music Workshop Featuring: 
Lamine Gueye from Senegal (West-Africa) and two Master Drum Players from Senegal 
Dates and Locations: 
Tuesday April 28: 10:00 AM -6 PM Hesburgh Library Lobby Wed. April 29: 10:00 AM -6:00 PM Dining Hall at Saint Mary's College Thursday April 30: 10:00 AM -6:00 PM Hesburgh Library Lobby Friday May 1: 10:00 AM -6:00 PM Hesburgh Library Lobby Friday May 8: 10:00 AM-6:00PM Center for Continuing Education Saturday May 9: 10:00 AM -6:00 PM Center for Continuing Education 
Two men were charged with first-degree murder Monday after leaving two little girls strapped in car seats in a black vehicle that 
· "heated up just like an oven." 

Sydney Pippin, who was 4 months old, and a cousin, Vicky Fraley, 16 months, died dur­ing the eight hours they were left in the car Saturday. The cause of df:lath was heat exhaustion and de}lyd:rati()n, .authorities said. '!it!i:&fkWV: 'iki!!M!li!tf'!i'IW"'' 
Ricky Leon, Cri Justin Griffith/ 2 degree murder. 
.· . ...· .. ·.. .. 

They had been h$ d s~:llyEi Saturday on charges of manslaughter and endangering the welfare of a child. But prosecutors upgraded the charges Monday, citing a state 

hot car 

The men had parked along a dirt road near Little Flock in northwest Arkansas and left to search for arrowheads and mushrooms near a cave about 90 feet away, authorities said. The windows of the car were rolled up. . "It appears that the pain was so severe, the trauma so bad, it was so hot in that car. that the 16-month-old-her head hurt so bad­she had her own hair pulled out by the roots in her own clinched little fists," prosecutor Brad Butler said. 
"It's a metal box, and it heated up just like an oven,'' said Benton County Sheriff's Deputy Tom Brewster. 
The girls had been with Crisp since Friday night, after their mothers were unable to 11nd child care andhad to work on Saturday. 


Women's Resource Center 

Mission: 

The mission of the Women's Resource Center is to serve as a resource for all members of the Notre Dame community. The Women's Resource Center celebrates a diversity of races, classes, ages, political beliefs, lifestyles, and physical abilities. 
Major events sponsored/co­sponsored: 
• 
Dolores Huerta, Co-Founder of United Farm Workers 

• 
Lynn Martin, former Secretary of Labor 

• 
Dorm Eating Disorder Presentations 

• 
Father Garrick Speak Out 

• 
Teach-In on Homosexuality 

• 
Rape Awareness Week 

• 
Gender Issues Week 

• 
Eating Disorders Awareness Week 



Goals: 

• 
improve gender relations on campus 

• 
create an environment which encourages open discussion 

• 
maintain a library with gender related information 

• 
provide a space for women and concerned others to find support and understanding 

• 
coordinate the efforts of the various groups oriented to women's issues at Notre Dame and provide a meeting place for those groups 



The WRC provides information on: 
• 
rape, sexual harassment 

• 
eating disorders 

• 
safety 

• 
career guidance 

• 
women's health issues 

• 
sexual identity 



Please stop by the center on the 2nd Aoor of LaFortune to check out our library, get information, or just to visit. You can also visit us on the web at www.nd.eduf,..,wrc, or call us at 219-631-9028. 
~----.--------,--~----------~----------------------------------~------~~------------~.-~~--~----•w~-=-"•~.-~~~----~-~--~--~wa.r.=-~~-·~----~-~~ 
r 




VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 28, 1998 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks 
MANAGING EDITOR Brian Reimhaler 
As.mTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran VIE'WFOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SCENE EDITORS...........................Sarah Oylag 
Kristi Klirsch SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
BUSINESS MANAGER Kyle Carlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER .........................Kris Klein AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................Brett Huelat SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouillet WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow CONTROLLER .....................................Dave Rogero 
The Observer is the mdcpendem newspaper published by the srudems of the Umversil}' of Notre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. h doe.o; not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither insriturion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of the E.tiiror-m-Chief, Managmg Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commenrarie.~. letters and columns present the views of the authors. and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Oamc/Saim Mary's community and ro all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 

through letters is encouraged. Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Ediror/A'isistant ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Phoro 631-5323 Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene//Saim Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office Manager/General Informarion 631-7471 NewsE-Mail 631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 

Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• lETTER TO THE EDiTOR 
WRC Indispensable to Notre Dame Community 

We are writing to share our concern over the coverage of the Women's Resource Center and to inform the Notre Dame public of certain errors published in the recent issue of Right Reason. The articles by Frederick C. Kelly III ("Of Dancing Bears and Drained Skulls"), Sean Vinck ("The Women's Resource Center: Notre Dame's Gateway to Abortion"), and anonymous ("The Women's Care Center: Giving the Spirit a Body"), dis­seminate many errors and slanderous remarks about members of the Notre Dame community, but most glaring are the following: 
1) Error: According to Right Reason, the Women's Resource Center violates Church policy by existing first and foremost as a clearinghouse for information about abortion services. 
Fact: The student volunteers who run the WRC keep a Visitor Log for all visits and referral services that they provide. Based on this document, in Spring 1998 the WRC received 27 visits on the following topics: 
a) 
general information about the cen­ter and its materials: 10 

b) 
rape: one 


c) 
eating disorders: 11 

d) 
request for aid with publicity: five 


Clearly, the most pressing issue dealt with by WRC volunteers is eating disor­ders. 
2) Error: Mr. Kelly asserts that "Notre Dame is helping to abort chil­dren" because of the availability of information about Planned Parenthood at the WRC. 
Fact: The information available at the WRC is available not only in any respectable Women's Center in any one of our peer institutions, but at any library, or indeed any dorm room or office that has a phone book. Moreover, such information is also available to students in myriad other ways on campus: an UNLOC search of Hesburgh Library materials brought up no less than 1,198 entries under the heading "abortion," and 1,046 on "homosexuality;" a cursory search of the Web (from an office on campus) brought up 365 sites on "abortion" and 78 on "homosexuality." 
We would also like to 

remind the Notre Dame community that censorship has dire consequences, the least of which is a stifling of the intellectual debate that should be the goal of an educational institution. The origins of intellectual freedom can be traced back to Socrates, who believed in the values and benefits of free discussion. On campus, the library and other collec­tions (such as the WRC) help promote discussion and reveal a wide array of information on issues of interest to stu­dents. But while the library has the backing of the American Library Association's "Library Bill of Rights" to bolster it against censorship, the WRC depends solely on the good will of the Notre Dame administration. 
Clearly, the recent attacks against 
the WRC show that intellectual free­dom is not a natural phenomenon. It is the result of intense care and vigilance, and it is up to all of us to fight for its protection. 
Finally, we would like to remind the community of the WRC's value for Notre Dame. The WRC provides a rich set of resources to the University com­munity in a supportive and welcoming setting: a space for critical questioning and intellectual debate; a collection of materials and programs concerning 
the physical, emotional and intellectu­
al well-being of women and men at 
Notre Dame; and a series of educa­
tional programs, like eating disor­
ders week, which serve the entire 
Notre Dame community. The WRC 
is one of the few spaces on campus 
where students are encouraged to 
engage in critical dialogue outside 
the classroom. The University com­
munity, the administration, and the 
Office of Student Affairs should wel­come such an organization and search out ways to assist its development. 
If the University wishes to continue its mission as an educational institu­tion, the Office of Student Affairs has no choice but to continue to support the WRC. The Women's Resource Center and its members deserve the respect and support of the entire Notre Dame community. 
Prof. Julia Douthwaite Dept. of Romance Languages and Literatures University of Notre Dame 
Prof. Barbara Green Dept. of English University of Notre Dame 
Prof. Kathleen Biddick Program in Gender Studies and Dept. ofHistoty University ofNotre Dame April27, 1998 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNEsauaY 
!JC('AU~ Y()(JZ/..Attf!AYS
SOHAV& YOIJ LAI/S 

f?£M&M86( IVHCJ?& YaJ
GIV&N ANY7HOU<3HT 

/(/t3R6 7H&. NteHTOF
7D IUH!3R£ Y()(JIUANT 

meLA5T '!iii!NFtitltW 
70Be ON TH& N/6HT 

ITA1K3HTA5tfleaf/6
OFlH&LA!n 

/A Pi.AC£ }tJ{IIf#WT
/ ''$/NF&/..1?•? 
7lJ~R/ 

• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Jf the national mental ill­
ness of the United States is meglomania, that of Canada is paranoid schizo­
phrenia.' 
-Margaret Atwood 


zzq: 4W 

a ·----------------------~--~------------------­
..........­



VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 
I Dissent 

I take no joy in writing this letter, and I don't care what kind of criticism it brings me. Not everyone at The Observer approves of last week's series promoting the gay lifestyle. At least one member of The Observer's editorial board was not informed of this series, though apparently several months in the works, until last Saturday. It was published at the end of the year, presumably to avoid critieism. This was at least negligent. 
I am disappointed that The Observer should run a series with so little pretense to objectivity. Part three, the administra­tion reaction, was the only pretense. It was hastily prepared at the last minute, and its four pages hardly stack up to the 24 page GLND/SMC promotion on the pre­vious two days. 
If I were merely uptight, or if this were just a political matter, I would not write this column, because I'm not having any fun writing it. But page after page of human misery is too much for me to ignore. As I glanced at the pages of part two, I saw (as I was surely meant to see) stories of young people, much like me, who were genuinely scared by something they found within themselves. But that wasn't all that I saw. I also saw young people who had fallen into the wrong hands. The Observer series was only advertising for those "wrong hands." 
Father David Garriek once told me in an interview for The Observer that it is absurd to identify someone on the basis of "imagined sexual acts." Yet ironically, this is precisely how GLND/SMC has convinced these students, and probably the other 20 freshmen they have silently recruited this year. to identify themselves. Is it any won­der that many of those featured in the pullout will probably never be known on campus now for anything besides their sexual drive? 
Sadly, freshmen are easily manipulated, and lives are easily ruined. Not only GLND, but also The Observer -my Observer­has used the misery of "these little ones" for the sake of perceived political gain against God's Church in last week's bar­nige of propaganda. Exploitation is the only word for it. 
Perhaps we can at least take from the series the lesson that we all have a duty to love. respect and help those who have a homosexual orientation-particularly because if one is surrounded by such porn-watching, characterless jackasses as Shannon Vieth's roommates (in part two) one is likely to lind weleome only in the manipulative hands of people like John Blandford. 
I have met Blandford, though he does not know me at all. lie is a man who really believes in his cause. lie really. really hates the Church (so much that he even wears a T-shirt advertising the fact). For this reason alone, I feel terrible enough for him. I certainly do not hate or fear him. 
But I do both hate and fear the fact that he is trying to spread his misery on cam­pus, and has in fact tried to do so to peo­ple I know. lie would gladly lead one into the gay lifestyle, which destroys one's hap­piness and blinds one to God. 
If you don't believe me about that last part, don't take my word for it. Just look at Blandford's protile in Part I to sec wlwre that same lifestyle has led him. Just look at his picture. Does he look happy'? Head what he has t<rsay. fllindness, mis­ery and bitterness. 
Thorn is a way out for people who find thmnsnlves in the position of those in the student profiles, a way that does not involvn either hatrnd, promiscuity or despair. Go to Campus Ministry. Talk to your rector, the person who is supposed to earn for your soul. If you want to, you can livn a happy, chaste, Christian life and worry about other things that are more important than sexual orientation. You can. God wouldn't make you into some­thing he hates, would he? 
I dtm't hate you, either. 
David Freddoso Junior, OffCampus April 26, 1998 

• CAPITOl COMMENTS 

An Unauthorized Commencement Address 
Each spring, I imagine that Notre Dame has invited turbed at the rapid rate of expansion on campus. Others me to commencement to address the graduating class. arc upset that money seems, to them, to be playing This year's unauthorized fantasy address has special more of a role within the alumni and University strue­rclevance for me because 1998 is the 25th anniversary lure. Still others are cmbarrassnd at administrative of my graduation from Notre Dame. And while much travesties and negative publicity over the denial of water has run under my bridge to the 21st century, I access for Father Garrick to say mass at the Basilica as can honestly say that humor has sustained me since well as for the ways in which administrators have graduation. denied gays access on campus. It is sad to see some of 
Most of us silver anniversary Domers cannot remem-my friends, who as young persons full of exuberance ber details of our commencement. In the years to come, and loyalty toward Notre Dame, turn the magic twinkle this year's graduating class will be as forgetful unless once radiating from their eyes into a dull, disappointed 
dramatic actions characterize the ==========;~~~~~~~ glare. event, such as a student protest of this This spring, as tens of thousands year's speaker's record as mayor of of students march in commence-
G 

South Bend for arresting Notre Dame ment ceremonies, hundreds of
ary

students. For me, my remembrance of commencement addresses will be our graduation ceremony was that I delivered at exercises ranging laughed. If the Class of 1998 can gen-from kindergarten through the
Caruso 

erally laugh, this year's ceremony will 
uniformly be remembered a quarter of 
a decade from now. 

Unfortunately, laughter does not solely define the elusive meaning of life. At Notre Dame, educators strive to develop intellect, character and val­ues. Yet, all too often, in an effort to attain such lofty ideals, individuality is sacrificed for a herd mentality. One will eventually learn in the real world, well beyond our Catholic Disneyland, that diversity and tolerance are the strengths of our nation. Laughter is the thread that ties civilized societies together. 
Good people practice every religion -some have no religious affiliation nor belief. Good people come in all colors and shapes, from every ethnic heritage and geo­graphical region. Some fairly good people strictly follow the literal letter of the Church's teachings, while other very good people barely agree with the Pope. Politically, good people are both conservative and liberal, Democrat, Independent, LaRouche and Republican ... although I personally cannot distinguish between the latter two! Most importantly, good people respect others regardless of how repulsive others may seem. 
I lind that beneath every good person lies a touch of humor. I also find that humor helps bond societies. llow many times have we forgotten an incident, such as a graduation ceremony, but remembered that we had a good time? How often have we only remembered one thing about a person by say­ing, "Wasn't he or she a lot of fun?" 
I remember that the speakers at my Notre Dame commencement were boring, especially our geeky valedic­torian. Washington colum­nist Carl Rowan received an honorary degree, but did not speak. An actress, possibly Helen Hayes, received an honorary degree and spoke only two sentences, but with such enthusiasm that it pleased and amused us. People of presidential stature are remembered for the positions they hold. Humorists like Art Buchwald are remembered for the way they entertained their audi­ences with laughter. I hon­estly cannot remember who delivered my commence­mcnt address because the speaker was neither extremely famous nor enter­taining. 
Members of the Class of 1998 will encounter disap­pointmcnts, sometimes scv­eral in succession. One of my first disappointments came only a few years after my graduation. A good friend and fellow Domer passed away. I first learned of it months after he died when I read about him in the alum­ni magazine's obituary sec­tion. To this day, I regret 


that I did not have just one 
more time to personally express my gratitude for his friendship ... one more time to at least speak with him on the telephone. To this day, I still do not know the cause of his death, a hollow­ness that haunts me when I visit campus. 
Over the years, many of my fellow "Silver Domers" have become disillusioned about life in general and par­ticularly bitter towards Notre Dame. Some ar~ dis-, , university level. Many speakers 
will bore their audiences as they 
express lofty ideals and convey 

words of wisdom. Most will urge students to seize opportunities and strive for excellence ... as though students don't already have those goals in mind. 
The few effective commencement speeches will be delivered by those who have humor and believe that the future belongs to the hearts of good people. Notre Dame is a wonderful place for personal growth in the area of community service ... and I am not referring to the sen­tences of those students who were arrested this year for underage drinking! Advising the Domers of 1998 to serve is preaching to the choir. However, urging this graduating class to maintain a sense of humor and a happy heart throughout their lives may be a tall task for them to undertake. 
Twenty-live years after graduating from Notre Dame, I mostly remember the happy, funny times of dormitory life. But, I recollect suffering and sadness at the prospect of leaving the comfortable collegiate schedule with the fabulous facilities and diverse activities. I also recall the uncertainties and pressures that contributed at times to my misery. Yet, through it all and through­out life after college, I kept humor as my crutch. Consequently, I have not hardened like many of my fel­
\ 
\ ( 
\ -... 
low alumni. 
Therefore, to the grad­uates of this economically wonderful year of' 1998, I offer my best wishes and hopes for you. Twenty-live years from now in 2023, I hope to sne you at our reunion and ask if you still have a sense of humor. I pray that the world will be a place where ethnic deansing and hatred of color, her­itage, sexual preference and religion does not exist. I expect the world. and specifically Notre Dame, to accept people who arc perceived as offending the Church, like gays, without a sec­ond thought. 
I believe that by 2023, the Notre Dame campus will extend from Indianapolis to Detroit and boast an endowment of $67 trillion. I expect Notre Dame to 11nally and formally commit to co­educational housing by the year 2099. Above all. I believe that 25 years from now the trustees, administrators, faculty and staff at Notre Dame will face each challenge with humor and a good heart. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73. worked at the 
U.S. House of Representatives for 18 

years and for the International Union ofElectronics Workers (JUE) in Washington. D.C. His column usually appears every other Friday and his Internet address is dchottline@hotmail. com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 



OUT TODAY 

Dave Matthews Band Before These Crowded Streets 
RCA 
***** (best out of five) 

P
egged by many as one of the new torch­bearers of the Grateful Dead, the Dave Matthews Band has successfully woven itself into the hearts of many college stu­dents across the country. It is not uncommon to hear dorm rooms blasting DMB on a typical Friday night. Although DMB has already sold over 10 million records, and established itself as a superb live act, Before These Crowded Streets might push them to a new level of rock stardom. 
Unlike its two predecessors, Before These Crowded Streets is more of a theme album. The release contains 11 songs that flow right into each other, making the listener feel as if they are at a concert listening to the songs for the first time. Instead of simply ending each song, each track morphs into a distinct melody that beauti­fully intr<lduces the next track. "Pantala Naga Pampa" (which means "Welcome to our home" in an African language) is a brief ditty that intro­duces the entire album, and there is also a secret song that closes the album out. This unique tech­nique gives a remarkable feel to the album, and is one of the biggest pluses of this release. 
The other benefit of this theme album is the relationship of the actual songs to one another. The politically based lyrics of Before These Crowded Streets deal primarily with the notion of things being much simpler before the rise of over-bearing governments and industrialization. For example, "Don't Drink the Water" is a haunting account of the white man taking away land from the Native American Indians. 
Even though the lyrics to this album show a huge stepping stone in the band's development, the real masterpiece of this work is the expert musicianship displayed. Before this particular album, DMB only recorded material that had been tested out at various shows. For this one they decided to totally throw out past riffs and work from ~cratch. The result is a plethora of beautifully crafted tunes that will not disappoint any DMB fans. The catchy riff uf "Std)'" only proves the theory that anything that comes out of Matthews' guitar is golden. The jazz-fille,• sounds of "Rapunzel" provides a perfect oppor­tunity to showcase the expert sax work of Leroi Moore and the Middle-Eastern influenced "The Last Stop" finds Boyd Tinsley going crazy on the violin. The airtight rhythm section, comprised of Stefan Lessard on bass and Carter Beauford on drums, drills a constant groove that refuses to let up during the album. "Crush," which might be the best song on the album, is the most success­ful in blending all of these elements to create an infectious festival of sound. 
The album also boasts an impressive list of guest musicians. The genius guitar of Tim Reynolds plays an important role in the album, appearing on every track. The Kronos Quartet, which is best known for its expert classical music renditions, guests on two songs and banjoist Bela Fleck lends his services to three songs. Even Alanis Morissette gets in on the actions, singing backup on "Don't Drink the Water" and taking a verse on the closing track "Spoon." 
Even if you are sick of all the hoopla on this campus surrounding DMB, it is impossible to deny the major effect this band has had on the music scene of the 90s. Before These Crowded Streets is a remarkable album that should be able to launch the band into the next century. This album is definitely their best work to date, and one day might even become known as the Sgt. Pepper's of our generation. 
by Geoff Rahie 


O
n the effervescent and ubiquitous "Torn," Natalie Imbruglia sings: "My inspiration has run dryffhat's what's goin' on/Nothing's right I'm torn." It's rather appropriate considering that one listen to this album reveals a complete lack of focus and an abundance of artistic misdirection. 
There's no doubt that this former Australian soap goddess has taken on more than she can handle. On one hand, you have to admire her ambition, her eclectic vision, and her range. On the other hand, the result is an uninspiring, tat­tered mess. 
One of the major causes of this problem is that Miss Imbruglia has surrounded herself with vari­ous songwriters, mixers, and producers: from Phil Thornalley of The Cure to Mark Goldenburg of the Eels to Nigel Godrich from Radiohead. Though it certainly looks good on paper, the reality is a case of having too many cooks in the kitchen. Each song ends up sounding vastly dif­ferent from the others. Miss Imbruglia, though putting forth an earnest effort, can't pull it off. She mimics Portishead on "Leave Me Alone," Shawn Colvin on "City," and Alanis Morissette on "Big Mistake." The latter is something no human being, let alone any artist, should strive to do. 
In addition to the disparate genres she attempts to imitate, Left of the Middle is further plagued by songwriting that possesses the matu­rity of an eight-year old. Consider the lyrics to Smoke: "Where are you dad/Mum's lookin' sad/ What's up with that/ It's dark in here." Or per­haps look at the lines in "Big Mistake": "There's no sign on the gate/And there's mud on your face/Don't ya think it's time we re-investigate this situation/Put some fruit on your plate." This type of idiotic verbal confection rivals the vacu­ous dialogue of a Pauly Shore film. 
Though these inane lyrics cannot be excused, they could have been overshadowed by some strong melodies and hooks. Unfortunately, the listener will not be able to realize this dream. Instead, we are given subpar Top 40 fare. Much of the music here is corny, trite, and sounds as if it would be better fit as the soundtrack for a lame late night movie on the USA cable network. 
It's a shame because Miss Imbruglia does indeed shine on the hit single "Torn." Here Imbruglia sings in a softer tone and delivers the sentiments of the song perfectly, exuding a sense of her frailty and disenchantment. Moreover, she is supported by bubbly, infectious tunes and decent lyrics. She ought to concentrate on find­ing her voice and identity, rather than trying on different costumes. Miss Imbruglia's talents are better suited to a vehicle such as "Torn," rather than her embarassingly bad Alanis imitations. Aside from "Torn," you wouldn't want to hear the other songs in their entirety, let 'alone more than once. Left of the Middle stands as an absolutely forgettable album. 
by Anthony Limjuco 
Natalie lmbruglia Left Of The Middle 
BMG/RCA 
no stars (best out of five) 
The Pearl Jam The DMB Further Festival Jimmy Buffett 
featuring The Other Ones
Summer Tour Summer Tour summer tour 






VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, April 28, 1998 page 11 
Nolan's Comrnents Spur Support for Kernan 
.• EDITORIAL 


What's in a Name? 
Hditor's note. TheJoflou.Jtntl is an editorial that ran in the April23 · issut· ~~raw Inditmapolis Star and is being reprinted with the paper's consent. 
Some graduating seniors at the University of Notre Dame are in a 
snit ovnr the school's choice of a speaker at the May 17 commence­
ment in South Bend. 

Thoy fnfll they deserve a big name, someone who has made a 
mark on the world stage. They were hoping for a Madeleine 
Albright or Nelson Mandela. Instead. the school invited Indiana Lt. 
Gov. Joe Kernan. a man whose face has never graced the front page 
of the New York Times. 

One of the disappointed students was senior class president Beth 
Nolan. who told a reporter that Kernan might be appropriate for 
Purdue or JU, but he's just not prestigious enough for a "national 
university" likl.' Notre Dame. "I don't think he is someone who is rel­
evant to (students') lives or someone they will follow when they 
Ioav~l horn.~ she said. 

Ignoring for a moment the breathtaking arrogance of her state­
ment. it's also just plain wrong. Joe Kernan is exactly the ldnd of 
man NotrP. Darrw's 1.900 graduating seniors ought to be following, 
and it's too bad they don't know it. 

For starters. Kernan never had anything handed to him on a plat· 
ter. He grew up in humble boginnings as one of nine children in a 
working-class family in South Bond. He got into Notre Dame the 
hard way; he earned an athletic scholarship and played varsity . 
baseball. 

He graduated in 1968 at a time when 200 Americans a week 
were being killed in the Vietnam War. Unlike this spring's gradu­
ates, who must decide to interview with Fortune 500 companies or 
go directly to law school. Kernan had to make a much tougher deci· 
sion: whether to serve in the military or evade his obligation. 
lie joined the Navy, went through flight training and fle~ 26 com­
bat missions as a navigator over North Vietnam before bemg shot in 
down on May 7, 1972. He cooled his heels in the "Hanoi Hilton" 
prison for almost a year wondering each day ifhe would be tortured 
(he wasn't) or survive to return home. 

Today's prestige-conscious student..:; might fmd it educational to 
learn why Kernan decided to enter the military and why he is 
thankful to have had the experience of being a POW. Among other 
things, he says, it taught him to adapt to any circumstance. 
Once back home, he married his college sweetheart, Maggie 
McCullough, who had faithfully corresponded with him while he 
was a POW. The marriage has lasted 24 years. Jftoday's divorce 
ratos aro an indicator, that's an accomplishment likely to elude half 
of this spring's graduating class. 

Students interested in politics could learn something from 
Kernan, too. Betore Gov. Frank ()'Bannon picked him as his running 
mate in 1998, Kernan was a successful mayor of South Bend for 
almost a decade. He was twice re-elected in landslides and walked 
away from the job with his reputation for integrity firmly intact. 
At a time when integrity and character arc in short supply.~. 
Kernan could tell tomorrow's leaders a few things "they desperately 
need to hear. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

No Better Choice Than Kernan 
I rPalizn that Notrn Dame's rnputation often makes it seem that the University exists in a world apart from the state of Indiana. Indeed, I would suspPct there are some people who don't even realize that Notn~ Damn is in Indiana. 
Until this week. I was of tlw opinion that most of the people who felt that way wen~ usually those who liwd and died with the fortunes of tlw Fighting Irish football tmun. How sad to see that similar senti· ments an~ carriPd by pnople lik1~ Beth Nolan. senior elass president, and otlwr soon-to-he Notre Dame graduates who seem to think their eermnony will be spoiled by lwaring a eommnncement address from Indiana l.t. (;ov . .Joe Kernan. lin's just not important enough. in thnir ViPW. 
I 1wvm· thought it would be essential to recount the numerous arromplishnwnts of .loP K1~rnan's carnnr to pnople from South Bend ... or thosn who work and go to school at the University of Notre I lamP, for that mattt~r. Ilis has bmm a lifo that stands as a model fi1r otlwrs to follow. 
But IPt us assunw for a monwnt that Ms. Nolan and otlwrs who sharP lwr viPw fi•l'i tlwy can IParn nothing from .Jon Koman, a man who sPrvnd capably in publir ollkn at tlw local and state lnvPI. a dPeo­ratod vntPran and a lilrmnr prisoner of war. 
If tlwy trulv fpp( that lw is not "rPIIwluJt" (Ms. Nolan's description) to tlll'ir lives. tl;nn I would sugg«~st that thny have lcarnml nothing from tlwir yPars at Notn• Damn and arl' compiPtnly unprepared for the world that farPs tlwm after graduation. Either they need morn sea­soning at tlwir "national" uniwrsity, or tlwy need to nseape its nnvi· rons and Sl'l' what lilil is like out lwre, wlwre )Wople like Joe Knrnan lt~anwd so many hard lessons and beeanw a bettnr pnrson for the expPril'rH~I'. 
Comml'ncPnwnt is desigrwd to eP!ebratn what has been aecom­plislwd. and what is to eolllll in the lives of those who are graduating. I can think of no bdtnr person to lwlp send gmduates on their way than .lot• Knrnan. 
Esther Wilson Indiana Stare Representative April 23; 1·998 · 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
He's Got Integrity, Character and He's No Draft Dodger 
The following are excerpts from some ofthe many letters we have received in response to the issue of this year's commencement speaker. 
As the parent of a graduating senior, I deplore the boorish behavior of the president of the senior class and others who object to Lt. Gov. Joseph Kernan giving this year's commencement address. Whom would they rather have? Perhaps a world nmowned "Draft Dodger" and "Sexual Predator" from Arkansas'? 
Norman). Beznoskajr. Strongsville, Ohio April 23, 1998 

*** 
I learned several very important things when I read the wire service report from South Bend report· ing Notre Dame graduating seniors' disappointment at the scheduling of Lieutenant Governor .Joe Kernan as their graduation keynote speaker. 
!learned that according to Notre Dame senior class president Beth Nolan, neither Purdue University 
nor Indiana University are "national" universities -a statement that will no doubt come as a great surprise to such national institutions as the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, Lockheed Martin, Boeing, IBM. Procter & Gamble, 
Ford, and General Motors who employ IU and Purdue graduates by the thousands. 
Most importantly, I've learned that there are sev­eral Notre Dame students, Ms. Nolan among them, who have a lot to learn about respect. 
Spencer Valentine Indianapolis, ln. April 23, 1998 
*** 

If I was a student or alumnus of Notre Dame ... I would be very upset and ashamed of class presi· dent Beth Nolan. Who in the hell does she think she is'? You should be honored to have an American hero like Joe Kernan be your speaker at commencement. He is a true hero! 
Steve Sloan · Michigan State University · April 23. 1998 : 

*** [In reference to the April 23 editorial in the Indianapolis Star.] 
Looks like Beth Nolan has assured Joe Kernan's continued success with Hoosier voters . 
Ed Manier Philosophy Department University of Notre Dame April 23, 1998 


*** It is stunning to think that a man who graduated from Notre Dame. flew Navy jets, survived the hell­
hole of North Vietnamese P.O.W. camps. successfully governed a city (dealing with public problems on an intimate level) and is now actively involved in governing a state has no relevance or has nothing to oll"er to the students of Notre Dame. 
Beth Nolan's petty, whining, condescending comments are an affront to anyone of character, an embarrassment to the University and, unfortunately, a reflection of the elitist institution Notre Dame has evolved into. 
I am ashamed to admit I am an alumnus. 
Michael Sculati Notre Dame 76 South Bend, ln. 
April 21, 1998 

*** 
You have spent four years in an excellent university and will go on to live your life in the gmatllst country in the world because people like Joe Kernan laid down their lives for you. Ms. Nolan, your words are appalling. In one statement. you have managed to insult every IU and Purdue graduate in the stat11. and anyone who has ever served their country . .Joe Kernan deserves your r1~speet and your admi­ration. You and every Notre Dame stucllmt should make it your goal to live your liVf~S with evon half as much integrity as Joe has lived his. If Joe Kernan is not worthy of deliwring your mmnwncenwnt address. then one truly has to wonder about your definition of success. 
Michael Edmondson Indianapolis, ln. April 22, 1998 

*** The senior elass government's response to the selection or Joseph Kernan to spPak at comnwnemnent is both arrogant and juvenile. 
Such treatment of a guest. invited to speak at Notre Dame, is an embarrassment to the spirit or the entire Notrn Dame community .. We may be just weeks from graduation, but our hnhavior shows we have a lot to learn. 
Mark Counselman Senior April!?, 1998 

· 
0


Tuesday, April28, 1998 ----------------------~OBSERVER page 13 



Gone Phishin' 
Phish to play a series of European shows before returning to the US in mid-July 

h. America's most popular studio release which will feature some 
prolific jam-oriented band, material previously played live and continues its reputation as an some of the brand new songs. The stu­intense touring show with a dio release is planned for late nine-show European tour in early July, October/early November. The band also playing in 
plans to concurrently Copenhagen, Prague release another live and Barcelona. The album, most likely tour will be followed from their second by a month-long trek night at McNichols across the United Arena in fall of 1997. States, beginning July Both CDs are cur­15 in Portland. Ore., rently untitled. and culminating in Following the sum­their third annual mer tour, it is expect­large-scale festival ed that the band will which, this year, dons embark on its annual the title fall tour sometime "Lemonwheel." on near the studio August 16th and release. Tickets for · 17th. It will take the summer shows place on the same will be on sale site as last year's fes­throughout late May tival, the Great Went, and early June, and at Loring Air Force tickets for the fall Base in Limestone, shows will most like­Maine, and is expect­ly go on sale through ed to attract more Ticketmaster and than last year's Trey Anastasio through mail order in 
80,000 people. It is late August. rumored that the band has come up For more information, check out the with 45 new songs since the new year, official Phish web site at some of which the band debuted at their http://www.phish. com or take a look at four-show tour earlier this month. Since an excellent unofficial page at then, the band has been working on a http://www. gadiel.com/phish. 

You've goHa fight ••• for their rights 
Beastie Boys and Pearl Jam among many to play at third annual Tibetan Freedom Concert 

ByJenn Zatorski 

S
ince the Chinese invasion of Tibet in 1950. over one million 
Tibetans have been killed and 
over one million have escaped from Tibet and now live as refugees. The five million that still live in Tibet are subject to the worst human rights and environmental abuses in the world. 
The Tibetan people have maintained a nonviolent struggle against the brutal Chinese government since 1959, howev­er. The Dalai Lama, the spiritual and political leader of Tibet, emphasizes love and compassion and governs with the benefit or all beings in mind, includ­ing the Chinese. 
Milarepa, a San Francisco non-profit organization, was founded in 1994 by Erin Potts and The Beastie Boys' Adam Yauch with the goal of creating a com­passionate and nonviolent world com­munity. Since its inception, Milarepa has worked to combine education, action, and entertainment to affect social change. One of the main focuses of the organization has been to increase awareness of the Tibetan struggle against the oppressive Chinese govern­ment. Milarepa has produced two Tibetan Freedom Concerts which have raised over $125 million to help pre­serve the Tibetan people's unique cul­ture. 
The third installment of the Tibetan 
Freedom Concerts is scheduled for June 13-14, 1998 at RFK Stadium in Washington, D.C. and promises to be a powerful political and musical event. The concert coincides with President Clinton's visit to China. Milapera plans 
. to deliver hundreds of signed postcards to the White House, urging President Clinton to push for negotiations between China and Tibet. The National Day for Tibet has been set for June 15, 1998. A rally on the Capitol lawn will feature speakers from the Tibetan community, ex-political prisoners, and surprise musical performances. The artists scheduled to perform at the Tibetan Freedom Concert include: A Tribe Called Quest, Beastie Boys, Beck, Blues Traveler, Buffalo Daughter, Chaksam-Pa, Tracy Chapman, Herbie Hancock and the Headhunters, Wyclef Jean, Nawang Khechog, Kraftwerk, KRS-One, Sean Lennon, Live, Lucious Jackson, Dave Matthews, Mutabaruka, Pearl Jam, Pulp, Radiohead, REM, Sonic Youth, Patti Smith, and The Verve. The Chinese government issued a statement on April 23, 1998 attacking these artists. A spokesman for the Chinese Embassy in London stated that "Western artists have no right to inter­vene in the internal affairs of our coun­try. Any of these performers who do will not be permitted entry to China, includ­ing Tibet, and their works will never be welcome in our country." 


Pearl Jam 

• 
Blues Traveler 





Radiohead 
nAn t or r· 

page 14 Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
•NBA 
Kemp keeps Cleveland alive in the series against the Pacers 
Associated Press Kemp, whose Seattle SuperSonics were the last team to lose a best-of-5 series after CLEVElAND leading 2-0, made 11 of 21 shots and pulled 
With a detormined. emphatic perfor­down seven rebounds. mance that awakf'ned a slumbering tnam Whatever combination of defenders Bird and its fans, Shawn Kemp made sure Larry put on him, he dominated. Bird won't sweep his first playoff series as a The Pacers, who won the first two games coach. of the series at Market · · 
Kemp scored 31 points as Cleveland Square Arena, now must play Game 4 on avoided elimination with its first home play­Thursday night. off win in !ivo years, an 86-77 victory over Only five teams have come back from 2-0 the Indiana Pacers on Monday night. deficits in best-of-5 series. 
Asserting himsPif so ferociously that even Hik Smits led Indiana with 26 points on 
courtside fans were pointing and screarn­11-for-17 shooting before fouling out with ing,"Give it to him," Kemp sealed the victo­86 seconds left. ry with a 16-foot jumper that made it 84-77 Heggie Miller had 18 points despite being with 29 seconds left. hampered by a sore left leg that he 
Fans who have been sitting on their stretched and limped on during the second hands seemingly since the half. 
Cavs moved into Guml Arena in 1994 Mark Jackson surpassed his own club responded as Kemp danced at halfeourt -playoff record with 17 assists. two hip thrusts and two kicks that got the Heserve Derek Anderson scored 11 points 
place as loud as it has ever been. and inspired the Cavs by shoving Dale Davis When the final buzzer sounded, Kemp late in the third. pumped up the crowd again with the uni­Zydrunas Ilgauskas had 13 points. versal symbol for "raise the roof." Mike Fratello improved to 2-11 in the And that was nothing compared to what playoffs as coach of .the Cavs, who snapped he did during the game. a seven-game playoff losing streak at home. 
KRT Photo Shawn Kemp's 31 points last night against Indiana gave his Cavaliers their first win of the series and snapped a seven-game playoff home losing streak. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Sales/Marketing Internships  HOUSE LEASE 4BR 2BA PT  KNOTI hall residents:  $$$$$$$$  If you or anyone you know lost  
NOTICES  University Directories is hiring students to sell yellow page adver­ FURN W/0/ 0/W WALK-NO AVAIL 6/1 GRAD PREF  One light brown carpet (with padding),  I will buy your extra graduation  Birkenstocks in front of the pavilion at St. Pat's park on 4/20, please call  
tising for the official campus tele­ (773)288-8822  perfectly cut to fit a double in the  tickets. Call Jenny @ 687-8435.  John Roach at 287-3440.  He is  
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/t.  phone directory this summer.  Paid  dorm.  excited to find their original owner.  
Europe $290 o/w. Other worldwide  internship.  Training  program.  5 bedroom house for rent for 98­ $40  My 7 siblings all want to go to  
destinations cheap. ONLY TER­ Excellent sales/marketing & man­ 99, 105 Marquette 232-6964  Purchased for $100 just last  graduation.  Extra Tix?  Call Matt 4­ SENIORS: FUTURE UNCLEAR?  
RORISTS  GET  YOU  THERE  agement experience. Call  summer.  3648  GO  TO  PRESENTATION  BY  
CHEAPER! Air-Tech  1-800-743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit  Room for rent in 5 bdrm house.  Contact Brian @ 4-4992  MICHAEL ASSOC. & interNET.  
(212)219-7000. (800)575-TECH. www.airtech.com  www.universitydirectories.com  Kitch, Washer, Dryer, Safe Nghbrhd, close to campus.  All  PERSONAL  HOLIDAY INN 4/30/98. 8PM THEN CALL 408-534-1814 OR WRITE:  
MODELS NEEDED! Female and  Util. incl. $200. avail. now.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  ACHACOSO, BOX 3004 STAN­ 
'LOST & FOUND'  Male Models for an upcoming AVEDA production. Model calls are  Paul Roy-232-2794  with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still  UPS  UPS  UPS  FORD.CA 94309  
being held now.  Have fun and get  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES  plastic. $225  Shipping stuff home?  This is my last issue  
DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG  a great new look. Please call 1-800­ FOR  NEXT  SCHOOL  YEAR  219-862-2082  
IRISH JACKET AT SENIOR BAR  356-5533 ext 1209 for information.,  NORTH OF NO 2773097  Best UPS rates on campus!  I'm so sad  
ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT? IF YOU  
DID, PLEASE CALL 4-4692.  FOR RENT  3 BDRM HOME, SAFE AREA, NEAR NO & UP MALL.  'COMPUTER: Mac laptop w/ modem &printer included $1,200  217 here I come  
AVAIL 8//20-5/20. $1000 PER  OBO  COUNTRY HARVESTER  Hey, wasn't that a TV show?  
Did you have skiing  Now Renting  MO. & UTIL.  'BIKE:  Huffy mountain b.  $100  Xt-6714  LaFortune  
for your 4th PE this year?  Campus View  CALL 407-673-1779.  OBO  No dummy, that was 227  
1 & 2 Bedrooms  'NINTENDO for SALE!  Extended hours during finals  
A dark-haired girl lent me her  2 Blocks from campus  SUMMER  SCHOOL  STU­ 271-7677 Maria  Open Senior Week thru May 20  Oh.  
black gloves and I still have  272-1441  DENTS:  College Park Apt. for  
them -please call Nicole  lease this summer.  Fully furnished.  93 Toyota Corrolla LE, 67K,  Hey Em, how's the knee?  
@4-0565 to claim them.  Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home.  Reasonably priced.  To inquire, call  great condittion, $8800.00  ADOPTION: Hugs, aaisies and  
Sorry about that! I  2 blks from campus 273-1566  243-7720.  219 656-4255  babbling  brooks  in  summer.  We're Going to France!l!l!  
Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­ 
=) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =)  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM­ 92 Lincoln Continental, 67K,  place in winter. Love and joy for  Head for the mountains Byrdak!  
Rooms in private house.  1 mile  PUS.  FURN.  ALARM  W/0,  excellent conditition $9300.00  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ 
..  from NO.  Summer rental.  $180/PERSON.  272-6551  219 656-4255  ing professional couple would love  Now no more whining from all of  
LOST WOMEN'S GOLD AND  Greg 634-0766  to provide a newborn with love, joy  the mean bugs in "The House of  
SILVER SEIKO WATCH SINCE  OFF CAMPUS  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ Fun!"  
TUESDAY APRIL 14th  Need Summer Housing?  STUDENT RENTAL  single and queen size beds,  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DINO  Sublet available, rent negotiable.  3 NEW PROPERTIES.  desk, clothes cabinet.  Call Dave  SBL, let's go cycling in about a  
@4633  Call Jason  PROPERTY-1..4-5 STUDENTS  @243-1868  week, give or take a couple days.  
YOU'LL BE HAPPYI!  258-5414  PROPERTY-2...6-8 STUDENTS  LOOKING FOR A·JOB FOR THE  
PROPERTY-3 ....... 2 STUDENTS  '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR?  wkhat are we going to do when  
ALL SIZE HOMES  SECURITY SYSTEMS, STOVE  1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM  THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune  all the computers crash? oh, no!  
•  WANTED  CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595  AND REFRIGERATOR. CONDITION.  NICE  2 BATH CONDO VAULTED GREAT ROOM W/ FRPL FOR  is now accepting applications for next fall. Student positions are lim­ Dave Matthews new album is a  
CALL DAVE OR CAROLYN  SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX  ited so apply early.  tragedy to the music industry and  
Anyone interning in Chicago  1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR  291-2209  235-3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY  the real Dave fans. I'm not liking it.  
looking 4 a roommate?  CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES  4/261-3 PM  Why doesn't he jam??? Like he  
Call Mike X3584  272-6551  ADOPTION IS LOVE  used to?  
DUPLEX: $575 FOR EACH  SPACIOUS CONDO  Happily married NO Alumni cou- 
Need a fulfilling job? N.D. fami­ FREE SUMMER STORAGE  THREE BEDROOM UNIT.  walk to campus  ple, with adopted 3 year old daugh­ sorry, i couldn't go to Lula's! Can  
lies looking for responsible, caring,  '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR.  VERY CLEAN.  WALK TO CAM- Diane Killilea 272-5444  ter, wants to shower a new baby  we go later this week?  
energetic students to work w/ spe­ WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE.  PUS.  CONSCIENTIOUS  with love. Artistic full-time mom,  
cial needs children during summer  234-3831I 273-0482  OWNER.  675-0776  athletic lawyer dad, and a sister to  DMB =sold out!  
and next year  Ideal for anyone  play with. Friends on the swingset,  
interested in Education, Speech,  4BR house close to NO.  College Park apt. avl June&July.  97 Mitsu Eclipse, CD, pwr sunrf,  trips to the zoo, grandma, play  your mom -for ann and plums  
OT, or Sensory. All families are in  grad students only unfurnished.  Call 273-9844  loaded, alum whls, warranty.  groups, lullabies, too.  This is a  
need of reliable. trusting students  233-1727  1 ,300  Best Offer, Chris 291-4307 or 1­ ·home where wishes come true.  did you just spit at me?  
with a special interest in helping  CHICAGO-SUMMER APT.  9795  We'd like to get to know you. Call  
kids. Please call Kim Lawton @  If you are looking for an apart­ Shawn  &  Meg  800-767-4257.  you had to be there  
277-4552 or  ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­ ment in Chicago for the summer  Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid.  
273-4848.  TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.  (Lincoln Park area, 2-bdrm, fully fur­ don't buy this OMB album, or you  
LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM­ nished),  Livingrm, bedrm, and diningrm.  CLOSING SALE  will regret it.  
2-4 Roomates to share house.  PUS, CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL  call Liz: 243-5826  furniture for sale. Prices  
2.5 blks from cmps. low rent,  277-8340  or Brigid: 243-2765  negotiable. Call 243-5719.  at  my lef thand is frying off. it looks  
clean. x1998  soo sickly. Wow.  

Furn. Rm 

THE COUNTRY HARVESTER Want to live in Turtle Creek Wash/Dry 
Do not, for any reason, touch Fall Semester? Private Bath 25% off EVERYTHING Shannon. Don't ask questions , just
o...:,~P: :EPootJ I 
TICKETS 
We want to live there in the Kitchen 

(Irish Village excluded) don't do it. I think she was in some spring. Let's share a lease. $350/Eiec 75, CDROM, Color Printer-$1900-GRADUATION TIX NEEDED kind of radiation accident. Or may x2985 Karen 284-6257. 273-4517(eve} Call Kristin 271-7458 CALL LAURIE@ 243-4788 Xt-6714 LaFortune be just taking a vacation to Miami. 
------------~----~--~----~~~-----------------------------~------~--------------~--~~~----~-----.----~~ 
Tuesday, April28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 


Spurs' Duncan easily takes Rookie of Year award 
Associated Press was overwhelmingly voted the award." 
NBA's Rookie of the Year on The No. 1 draft pick from SAN ANTONIO Monday. Wake Forest received 113 of 
Tim Duncan, a major force in "It's a goal I had coming into 116 votes (97 percent) from a leading the San Antonio Spurs to this year," he said. "I wanted to panel of NBA writers and broad­a record turnaround this season, play well this year and win this casters. New Jersey's Keith Van Horn got the other three votes. 
Duncan's margin of victory as the largest since Shaquille O'Neal received 98 percent of the vote in 1992-93. 
"It's been great playing with every one of my teammates because it's a veteran crew," said the 7-footer from Wake Forest, who was the top pick in last June's NBA draft. "I came in here with little pressure on me because we had such a core of great players." 
With slick post moves, deft ball-handling and smothering defense, Duncan became the first rookie to play in the NBA All-Star Game since Grant Hill in 1995. 
He averaged 21.1 points, 11.9 
rebounds, 2.7 assists, 2.5 blocks per game and shot .549 from the field. He was the 19th rookie in NBA history to. average at least 20 points and 10 rebounds per game. 
Duncan led all rookies in scor­ing, rebounding, blocks and field goal percentage and ranked sev­enth in assists. He ranked third in rebounding, fourth in field goal percentage, sixth in blocks and13th in scoring among all players. 
Duncan joined Ralph Sampson (1983-84) and Robinson(1989­
90) as the only players to win Rookie of the Month hanoi's every month since the NBA started giving out the award in the1981-82 season. 


Spending your summer in the windy city? 
•
DEPAl)LUNNERSIIY'S 
Summer Accounting Sequence 
Fast-Track Year-in-a-Summer course I Fast Track Registration 
Principles of Accounting I & II and Introduction to Cost Accounting -all the accounting many business majors will ever need ­over 10 weeks in the evenings at DePaul University's state-of-the-art downtown Chicago campus. 
For more information: call: 312-362-8770 fax: 312-362-6208 'e-mail: accountancy@wppost. depaul. edu or visit: http: Ilwww.depaul. edulaccountancy I 
Next fall take back a tan, a few bucks ... ...and 12 hours of accounting from DePaul 


Demonstration of the Digital Library  Monday, May 4, 1998  
Project at the University of Illinois,  3:30-5 p.m.  
Grainger Engineering Library  Rm. 136 DeBartolo  
Recap and further discussion of  Tuesday, May 5, 1998  
the UIUC Digital Library Project,  9:00 a.m.-noon  
including lessons learned from  Rm. 122 COBA  
research and user perspectives  
Speakers:  
Bill Mischo-Engineering Librarian  
Tim Cole-System Librarian  

Grainger Engineering Library Information Center University of Illinois at Urbana-Campaign 
Sponsors: University Committee on Libraries College of Engineering University Libraries of Notre Dame 

Earth Dar! Every Dayl 
Save the planet, get paid and have fun! Full time and summer. Must be 18 or older. Work 2-10 pm Monday -Friday. Earn $325 per week base plus bonus. Call 232-7905. 

~--•~as....~..-.az.-~tasa-~--~••=~cc~--~....~~~--~=~--r---~==--~--~----~c----------==----------~-~--~---------~ 
r \r ..,., .... , A.,~ ~':'"T'"lT'"T"rT,......,.., r'T" ,..-yy ,.,..... 1""1 "" .. o"'\ ,.. f. ' 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Jamison decides to enter NBA after his junior year 
MAKE YOUR DESTINATION. . . UNION STATION! 
233-2876 

WEDDING RECEPTIONS GRADUATION PARTIES 

Ross University has been educating Medical and Veterinary Medicine Students for more than 20 years and Is now accepting applications for enrollment in its 3 calendar year, post-baccalaureate program (OPT], to be established at the Medical School Campus on the Carr/bean Island ofDominica. 
• 
Curriculum will be developed following the American Physical Therapy Association guidelines for practice. 

• 
Clinical rotations will be developed in U.S. hospitals and other pracUce sites. 

• 
Graduates will be eligible to sit for U.S licensure as foreign educated Physical Therapists. 


f RoiS'uii;E;$;J;c~~;;~;;o;;;DiCINE T 
460 West 34th Street, New York, NY 10001 Ph: 212 279-5500 . Fax: 212 629-3147 or 268-7767 
*The Most Affordable Student Hous.ing * 









273-3890 
"STILL THE BEST" 
meaning he will graduate two becoming the first North Tar Heels to a 34-4 record and semesters ahead of his class. Carolina player since Billy their second straight Final 
"The most important thing Cunningham in 1964-65 to Four. North Carolina lost to for me is no matter what hap­average a double-double. Utah in the semifinals. pens I have the opportunity to He finished seventh on North "I have made my decision and graduate this summer," he Carolina's scoring list and there's no turning back now," said. fourth in rebounding. This year .Jamison said. "I am aware 
.Jamison, the ACC player of he set season marks for field there eould be a negative thing the year, averaged 22.2 points goals and rebounds and was with the loekout but I'm willing and10.5 rebounds this season. second in points in leading the to take that chance." 
The Right Direction 
Can Make All 


The Difference. 

Kids need a lot of direction to know which way is up. Especially when they're learning to read. Thats National Tests why they need people like you . 
Show 40% We'll give education awards of nearly $5,000 to people who help kids learn to read by joining
Of All Children 

AmeriCorps*VISTA. You could be one of them. 
Read Below 

As an AmeriCorps*VISlA member, you'll gain real­
Grade Level. world experience, build your resume, help people in need, and earn money for studem loans or graduate school. You'll receive a living allowance and medical benefits. And, most imponantly, you'll know you've helped a child succeed in school and in life. 

Take the Lead. Help Kids Read . AmeriCorps *VISTA. 
Call today for more information and an application: 

Contact Shannon Baxter at 312-353-8280, sbaxter@cns.gov 
Or visit our website at www.americorps.org 
AmeriCorps*VISTA. Getting Things Done. 

NOTRE DAME AREA  ST. MARY'S AREA  
S.R. 23 (East of Ironwood)  52750 U.S. 33 N. (N. of Cleveland)  
243-1111  243-1122  

Associated Press 
CHAPEL IIILL, N.C. 
Antawn Jamison is convinced 
he's ready for pro basketball, 
and he'll be heading to the NBA 
with degree in hand. 
The national player of the 
year said Monday he'll forgo 
his SHnior year at North 
Carolina, passing up a chance 
to become the Atlantic Coast 
Conference's career scoring 
leader to enter the NBA draft 
on .June 24. 
"Wlwn it was time to leave it 
was difficult to swallow 
because these three vears hAve probably been the best three years of my life," .Jamison said, the 6-foot-9 forward. "It is a lot more difficult than I thought it would be." 

.Jamison is the 13th player to declare early for the NBA draft, joining such playet·s as Mike Bibby of Arizona, Paul Pierce of Kansas and Robert Traylor of Michigan. Among the 13 are two high school players. 
.Jamison, the school's first national player of the year since Michael .Jordan in 1984, said he would get his college degree in African studies after two sessions of summer school 
-----------------~~ ---.----­
_11_ue_sd_a=--y,_A....:...p_ri_I2_8_,_19_9_8__________--=-T=-he=--O~bserver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 

u • 0

Photo counesy ot ~ami Mary's Athletics 

game since her freshman year and eovered the bag at third like a World Championship ring was at stake in every one of those games. 
Although Arena is flattered and a bit suprised by all the pos­itive words from her coaches and teammates, her focus was on the team. 
"You depend on your team­mat!ls in softball. They really have been my second family. Everybody is a part of it. You need everybody or it doesn't work," explained Arena. 
Amna has played her favorite sport for 15 years. She found a home at third base her fresh­man year at Salpointe Catholic high sehool and has never left. 
ller fielding has added not only wins, but excitement to every softball team she has played on. 
"In every aspect of the game, she is an incredible competitor. From a pitching standpoint, she makes my life so much easier. I always know the left side is cov­ered. !fer fielding ability lets the team do so much more," said pitcher Liz Shevik. 
Arena, from Tucson, Ariz., has had an amazing four years playing for the Belles. She is, a leader on the team and I wish I could have played with her for more than one year." 
Not only does she make the players' jobs easier, she seems to help out her coaches as well. No inning goes by without the 
gram at the University of Arizona. 
If the positive attitude and work ethic she shows on the softball field follows. her, "The Wall" will not be stopped in the professional field either. 

\vhylugy~~ 
--~ stuff across l 
-"-.:-:z:,'-----®campus? · 

~ESPLUS 
Call 277·5555 for free pick up at your romn -on or off can1pus. 
Boxes Plus 
•the lower priced shipper• 
5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza near Sam's Club

,_____________________________ 
Andrea Arena (left) has led the Belles this year at third base. 
~ 


MEN IN BLACK 
W~evre~? w~ i4-tkut ~? 



~.flU«~. e.s.e ~. lidt 'Uiad. e.s.e 
'?(V£ H«VU ~(ut de ~~~ruee-~~~~ 
~ s~ •~ vaHte. 1~ 46556 (2!9) 63/-63&'5. ~:1/~.d.e-tk/-~ 
ANSWER~ 
THE CALL\(J)I
--. 
$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Do yolA ~eed ex+~a cash fo~ this SLAmme~? 
The .AI_vH'Y\V\i .AssociatioV\ is hiriV\9 people who would like to work from 
3tA~e 31 1998 th~[A 3tA~e 61 1998 
I

f 
o v vetAI!\ 1oJI\ '98 
You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! 
Please apply at student employment 336 Grace Hall or The Alumni Association 202 Brownson Hall 


$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
• 

Tuesday, April28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• TENNIS 
Irish squads finish second at Big East tourney 

Enloe fulfills key duties as anchor for ·Notre Dame 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
MIAMI 

An anchor often speaks for the weight of its ship. 
At the Big East tennis championship over the week­end, Eric Enloe, at the bottom of the lineup, proved to be a stronghold worth his weight for the No. 14 Irish. 
Although Notre Dame did not sail on to victory, get­ting harbored 4-1 by Miami, Enloe cruised by all of his opponents for a 3-0 weekend. 
''I'm really disappointed the team didn't win," Enloe said after the Irish's loss in the finals. "But it feels good beating such solid players." 
The senior from Kansas City, Mo., started his week­end perfectly. 
Diving into the Florida theme Friday, Enloe scorched Georgetown's Beau Brewer 6-0, 6-0. Enloe did not even seem challenged by Brewer at the No. 5 spot. He quickly finished off the match, helping boost his team to a 4-0 victory over Georgetown. 
Saturday could not technically be defined as per­fect for Enloe, but it may as well have been. 
He sunk West Virginia's Russian freshman, 6-1, 6-0 with ease to help the Irish to their second straight 4­0 win. 
Enloe sped from corner to corner of the court, epit­omizing hustle. Nothing seemed to get by him as he went to the net with confidence and poise to douse Irakli Tatishvj!i. 
Even Sunday, while the rest of his team withered under the heat of the Hurricanes, Enloe was able to torch Miami's sixth man. Bringing the Irish back into contention, Enloe defeated Miami's Mark Arrowsmith at No. 6, 6-3, 6-2. 
"It's very gratifying to see a player play his best in a crucial situation like Eric did today," Bayliss said. But Enloe, 14-9 on the season, has not always been the dependable win at the bottom of the line. 
Earlier in the season, he was plagued with incon­sistency and usually exchanged a loss for every win he earned. 
Only two weeks ago, Enloe was 8-9 on the season and was still famous for going the distance of all three sets almost every match. 
''I've been playing well," Enloe said. "Since Illinois, I've gotten the fire." 
The flame he talks about probably seems more like an explosion to his opponents: surprising and destructive. 
However, Enloe's play since April 13 has been nothing but consistently magnificent. 
Since that date, when he beat Illinois' Matt Snyder 6-3, 6-4, Enloe has been practically flawless. He has also downed players from Michigan, Indiana and Tulane. 
"He's really bounced back," Bayliss said. "He strug­gled early but he has really come around." Going 6-0 since his win at Illinois, Enloe is the new man on the winning stretch. 
"Different guys get on different streaks," Enloe said. "[Matt] Horsley has had a great winning streak and Danny [Rothschild] seemed unbeatable at the beginning of the, season. I guess I've finally hit my streak." 
But as much as flukes or fate are alluded to, Enloe knows that streaks don't just happen; they're earned. 
Enloe has taken gigantic strides to cut back on fun­damental mistakes and to keep more balls in play. In effec;t, he has become an efficient player capable of keeping the Irish from floating away. 
Practice is not the only way Enloe has perfected his skills. Not afraid to ask for help when he knows he might need it, Enloe has called upon his teammates as well. ­
"My teammates have helped me a lot. I really rely on them," Enloe said. 
"Jakub [Pietrowski] and Brian [Patterson] have given me a lot of advice and told me things to do to help me get better." 
And so far, it seems Enloe has followed the good advice. 
With performances that only seem to be improving, Enloe, at the bottom of the lineup, may be the first one looked to while the Irish rebound from Miami and preparing for the NCAAs. 
''I'm going to try to lead on and off the court," Enloe said. "Danny's done a great job [as team cap­tain] and so have the other seniors. I hope I can help carry the team with work ethic and attitude. I think then we can really readjust and refocus." 
As long as Enloe does not change his focal point, the Irish should have a clearer vision of their future in May's regional and national NCAAs. 
And even though the Irish's ship did not come in at Miami, they can be certain that they have a strong anchor that won't allow them to drift too far from shore. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
• SAINT MARY's TRACK 


Dickerson, Belles record personal bests at Hope 
Office of Information Technologies 
Arkie, COBA, e are all closed r NOW??!! 

(SHHH, IF YOU PROMISE NOT TO TELL ANY­ONE I'LL LET YOU IN ON A SECRET.) 
hou1· 
There are Windows computers available all night and all weekend in G015 CCMB. 
co111pute:r 
Open 6 pm -7 am on weekdays, and 24 hours on the weekend. Enter CCMB via the south doors and head downstairs. (Just don't tell anyone else.) 




access 
Office of Information Technologies 
~--~...~,.~~~~-----,~,.~.-.-----.-.~.-.,.~~.---.--~.~----~_-,_-~·;~_,_~~~.~~-~-~~~-----------------o---,-.---.~ .. 
MAKE YOUR DESTINATION . . UNION STATION! 
233-2876 

WEDDING RECEPTIONS GRADUATION PARTIES 
REHEARSAL DINNERS . BANQUET DINNERS DANCES CLASS REUNIONS 
po.tes Greo.t ·lo.ble\ UNION STATION still p;vo.t ~ 




UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES SELECT ALEPH·SOO 
For the move into the next mellenium, ALEPH 500 from Ex Libris has been selected by the University Libraries of Notre Dame as its library management software. ALEPH 500 was selected for its: 
• 
State-of-the-art client/ server architecture 

• 
ability to offer extended functionalty 


• 
support of current library services such as circulation and public online catalogs 

• 
new features suchas hot links to external electronic databases; etc. 

• 
ability as a gateway to other online resorces allow -ing the "catalog" to take on a new visibility and role 

• 
future developments which include electronic reserves and extended interlibrary loan activities 


Initial elements in an ALEPH-based campus-wide informa­tion system (CWIS) will support bibliographic access to the Libraries' collections via the traditional catalog and the possi­bility exists to create, store, index, and retrieve from other citation, full-text, or numeric databases. Already other departments such as the Snite Museum, th Lab for Social Research, and the Human Resources Wellness Group have begun to explore the potential of the ALEPH software. 
ALEPH should become operational in August 1998, given delivery of software by the vendor. If there is a delay the . ALEPH system will be installed during Christmas 1998. 
The Effect on the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's communities should be minimal because ALEPH's public access is web­based. This means: 
• 
NO additional software is needed since ALEPH 500 uses existing web browsers such as Netscape 

• 
NO steep learning curve since many users are familiar with web-based searching like Yahoo 

• 
NO large investment in equipment because OIT ·~, clusters and machines on faculty desktops a!read';· support web-based information 

• 
Usable on any platform since Netscape exists for Windows 3.1, Windows95, Windows NT, Mac OS, and many flavors of UNIX. 


..... t••.:.• •••••••• ,r­
,11/,..,., _e' ~ ..Jl "... -J
-·., M J 
~ 

onds was a season-best time and Long's mark of 1:13.75 sec­onds was a personal best. Gallagher also grabbed a third­place finish in the 200-meter dash. 
This weekend, the traeksters 
-~%~­
SAINT 
Y'S 
COLLEGE 
NOTRE llAMF. IN 


will travel to Adrian College to will be good to go into the eon­
compete against other MIAA ference meet with this kind of 
conference teams for their sea­confidence." 
son finale. The team has confidence. The "Everyone on the team had team has talent. 
their best times for the season This meet just might be one 
on Saturday," said Gallagher. "It for the books. 
3RD ANNUAL SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Institute for Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 17-18, 1998 
LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 
Strengthen your understanding, skills and com­
mitment as a spiritual leader. Workshops include: 
• 
promoting Christian service 

• 
praying together 

• 
facilitating dynamic Bible studies and retreats 

• 
ministry with high school students 


Open and free to all Saint Mary's students, 
faculty, administrators and staff. 
Come to an informational meeting 
April 28 at noon or 6:00 PM in 158 
Regina, or call 284·5391 to register! 
By JANICE WEIERS Sports Writer 
It was sunny and the Saint Mary's track team was shining as they eompeted in a meet held at Hope College on Saturday. 
The team has continued to improve throughout the season. And this meet was no exception. Not only did every Belle place in at least one event, many of the times and distances recorded were personal bests. 
Ashley Dickerson was on the field all day launching the javelin, hurling the shot put, and throwing the discus. And each time she threw, it ended with a personal record. 
The shot put ended in a sec­ond place for Dickerson, as she recorded a distance of 30 feet, lO 3/4 inches. A javelin mark of 84 feet, 3 inches resulted in another personal best for her. In the discus. Dickerson earned a first place with a distance of 105 feet, 3 3/4 inches. 

The throw was 1/4 inch away from the school record. "At the past two meets, I've improved by about 10 feet each time. I may not improve by 10 feet this weekend, but I hope that I can at least get that quarter of an ineh," said Dickerson. 
Allyson Treloar set a new per­sonal record in the javelin event and found herself in first place with a mark of 120 feet, 4 inch­es. This measurement is only inches behind the school record of 123 feet, 9 inches. Treloar will also be looking to get her name in the book this weekend. 
''I'm really excited about this weekend," said Treloar. ''I'm just going to keep doing what I've been doing and hope it works." 
Both hurdling events ended with a Belle finishing in second place. Sarah Gallagher in the 100-meter hurdle event and in the other. it was Sharis Long in the 400-meter hurdles. Gallagher's time of 18.72 sec­
Tuesday, April 28, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 21 
-~--l 
that's why we kept throwing the another year, forcing him to "Action Jackson" in high school. ball." watch from the bench, also "When he's in there, you know 
Jackson 
Another concern this spring earned him respect. some things might happen bad, was the team's adjustment to "I have a lot of respect for him but you can't wait for him to take
continued from page 24 
Jackson as the starting quarter­and how he handled himself last the snap," Davie said. "You're 

back, but according to Davie year," Davie said. just kind of anxious for him to get
the play on another. 
"He's probably one of the best there have not been any prob­From watching Jackson taking his hands on the ball because you tacklers on our team," Davie lems. the snaps as the top quarterback, know something is going to hap­"Jarious is so even-kieled and Davie learned why he was called pen."
said. "I like how he doesn't lose 
his confidence and doesn't hang doesn't take himself too serious­ly," Davie said. There's a lot of 
his head. Trying to get him to maintain that when there's 
camaraderie between him and 80,000 people in the stadium the players, .so the moment he when the games really count is walks out there you can tell that 
the players respect him. Just the 
critical. 
"We really do have to eliminate way he attacks the game gives the bad plays," Davie continued. you confidence in him." "The only way we're going to do How Jackson dealt with the 
decision of Ron Powlus to stay
that is to get him a lot of reps and 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents 

Moreau Center/Little Theatre Friday, May 1st & Sunday, May 3rd • 7:30p.m. 

DIDQAND 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday.

AENEAS 
~ ~ 1'f,3E" 1'f3[' 'lEe
I I Credit card orders by phone: 
directed by Deborah Norin-Kuehn 
219/284-4626 A fully-staged production of Henry Purcell's work, 
MO~D
the first English opera. 
1 c~THE !!f..­

The Observer/Kevin Dalum
~NOTRE DAME, IN 

Jackson passed for 248 yards with three interceptions Saturday. 






Graduating Seniors 
Before you head down that long and winding road, stop in to your Notre Dame Federal Credit Union and get a FREE mouse pad. 
No matter where you are or what your financial needs, we'll always be as close as: 

www.ndfcu.org 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 




NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
lndependant of the University 
~lliiiiiiill.................·. ~-'• .... ---··-•••••...-..__.......--.~-•.........~-c"iii""iii"• ••••·-·......______..,_•-

Deeter • 
continued from page 24 
away, she just really raised everyone's level of expecta­tions for themselves." 
A major obstacle to Deeter's success has been her struggle with anorexia nervosa. This eating disorder tends to strike women most often, and occurs at a higher than nor­mal rate among athletes in sports such as distance run­ning and gymnastics in which body size is seen as an impor­tant factor for success. 
For Deeter, the ordeal began in her sophomore year of high school. 
"I still struggle with that every day," said Deeter. "I didn't think about being thin­ner. I just thought about being the best runner that I could be, so I didn't think I should eat any fat and so on, which is totally a falsehood." 
Although she continued to eat three meals a day, she was taking in far less calories than her body needed to to maintain a healthy weight with the amount of running she was doing. During her senior year, things got bad enough that she had to check into a hospital for treatment. It also limited her to running in only a couple track meets last season. 
"The recovery process is complete hell," said Deeter. "Hopefully, someday, I'll be completely free. I'm the most determined person that you'll ever meet, and yet, I can't get over this." 
With the help of her family, coaches, and doctors, Deeter is recovering. She is now back to running competitive­ly, and leads the Eating Disorders Group at the Women's Resource Center. 
"My family is definitely an inspiration," said Deeter. "After running, my dad always comes and gives me a huge hug. That's my favorite running memory." 
One sign of her improve­ment came this spring. Deeter qualified for the indoor NCAA championships in both the 3,000 and 5,000­meter runs. She chose to compete in the 3,000 meters after recording the best time in the event in Notre Dame history, 9:30.82. 
"She has all the potential in the world," said Piane. "She's a national-class athlete." 
Deeter recently returned to competition after a nagging leg injury kept her out of the first part of the outdoor track season. She began her out­door season by running the 1,500 meters at Michigan 
.. 

State, then placed eighth at the Drake Relays in the 3,000 meters last weekend. Up next, Deeter will toe the line in the 10,000 meter run at the Big East Invitational in hopes of qualifying for the national meet. 
The native of Eden Prairie, Minn., is an only child who .. also has high aspirations out­side of her role as a member of the Fighting Irish. She is an International Relations and Spanish major with the ultimate goal of working in the FBI or CIA, possibly in a Latin-American country. 
She wants to remain active even after her competitive running career is done, keep­ing the thought of someday hiking the Himalayas in her mind. She also plans to par­ticipate in the Ironman Triathlon in Hawaii someday. 
"When I run the Ironman, my life is done," said Deeter. "It's complete." 
---• • -· •-• • • ------• • • • •-• • • •. •.I 

r a 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
• SOFTBAll 


Irish prep for Big East with two games against ISU 
I . 
... 
• 
.. 
By BILL HART 
Assistant Spom Editor 
While most students are beginning their preparations for final exams, the Fighting Irish softball team is setting thnir sights on the record books. 
After clinching the Big East South Division titln last week­end with a sweep of Villanova, the Irish now have a chance to win their first Big East confer­ence tournament. 
1Iowev1~r. beforn the team starts thinking about making a run for the conference title, they must square off in a dou­blelwader against intrastate rival Indiana State this al'ter­noon at Ivy Field. 
The Sycamores !wad into town on the heels of a five­game losing skid after winning their first and only conference game of the season. In their most recent outing, they dropped a ll-9 deeision to Northern Iowa that lasted nine innings. 
Indiana State is led by junior outfielder Jackie Anderson. Anderson went 4-for-S on Sunday and is now just six hits shy of 52 for the season, which would tie her for fifth­best all-time at ISU. She is also three HRI short of 49 for hnr career. which would tie her for fifth place all-time. 
Overall, the Sycamores are 13-29 on the season and 1-11 in the Missouri Valley Conference. 
"We're not quite sure what to expnct from them." Irish shortstop Sarah Mathison said about ISU. "Hight now, we're just looking to extend our win­ning streak." 
Notre Dame's streak has thorn moving in the opposite direction from the Syeamores. Having won the last 15 games, they hope to keep their momentum going into the Big East tournament, scheduled to start this weekend at Ivy Field. 
The tournament seedings were announced on Sunday, with Notre Dame set to play Connecticut on Saturday after­noon. Boston College will play Rutgers in their run to defend their title earlier in the day. 
Overall, Notre Dame holds an 8-6-1 record against Indiana State. although the two teams have not played since a 7-3 Irish victory in 

Kalita 
continued from page 24 
score on a single by Allen Greene, putting the Irish ahead 3-1. The junior also 
doubled to center in the  sev­ 
enth  and  seornd  on  J ..J.  
Brock's single to left.  

"It was definitely a big win for us," Kalita said. "The offense came through as usual. and the defense gave a great effort." 
Notre Dame is currently bat­ting .321 as a team, and holds an impressive .961 fielding percentage. 
"Some balls got blown around today," Ust said, "but last year this field wasn't good to us either; to come away with two-out-of-three this weekend was important." 
"This was a really big win for us," Mainie'ri said. "With the last three weekends of the regular season corning up, it's good to know our destiny is in our hands." 
Notre Dame has won 15 of its last 16 games, and takes on Michigan State tonight at 
7:05 at Frank Eck Stadium. 
1994. 

While the Irish offense has stumped opposing pitchers all season. it has been the ace pitd1ing staff that has kept opponents at bay. 
As a team. Notre Dame leads the Big East from the mound with a l.4S EHA. Pitcher Jennifer Sharron has dominat­ed in her first season, sporting the best ERA (1.06), record (5­
1) and opponent's batting average (.138) in the confer­ence. Against the Wildeats, senior Kelly Nichols earned her 24th career save to increase her grip· on the NCAA reeord. 
"Her performance hasn't surprised me at all," Mathison said about Sharron. "She carne in here with high expectiations, and she's just had the ability to do what she needed ~o do and get the strikeouts that she needs." 
The first game between the Irish and the Sycamores is set to begin at 4:00 p.m. at Ivy FieId. The Observer/Uz Lang 

The Irish softball team looks to build on its 15-game winning streak today agaomst the 13-9 Sycamores. 


CHECKnOUl 

ONTHEW£B. 

www.ford.com 


You've hit the books. Now it's time to hit the road. Ford can help. College seniors and grad students get $400 cash back* toward the purchase or Ford Credit Red Carpet Lease of any eligible Ford or Mercury. It's academic: pocket the cash, grab life by the wheel. For more College Graduate Purchase Program info, call1-800-321-1536 or visit the Web at www.ford.com 

mlm ,.,A ~ 
ll:1iiillll 

~ ff\trW¥y v 
'To be eligible, you must graduate wit.h an associate's or bachelor's degree between 10/1/96 and 1/5/99 or be currently enrolled In graduate school. You musl purchase or lease your new veh1cle between 1/4/98 and 1/5/99. Some customer and vehicle eligibility restrictions apply. See your dealer for details. 

----~-----------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
IHE Y C,4ftiER Nl 9HTL'I IN /JIE HALLS Of 2AH}1, PUSHING fHEif( 8o[)!ES /o T!/C!R. L IMJ T5. 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
I'M eorNc, TO 
HE.I..P SUMO LOSE 
WEIGHT. t'M 
SNCOURAC:,INE1 
~tM\OEAT MORe GR&ENS~ 

DILBERT 
I 51\VED A LOT OF 
MONE'( BY HIRING 
A LOW-PRICED CONSULTANT. 
f----L..LL.......I:l~-..L.Ji;J.___J..A..._---1~ 
~ 
"' Jl-L--=l~::.__::::::::::!..~MJr+:f•~~ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS  38 Fashionable  68 Sam Shepard's  
1 James of letters 5 Persi!!t 10 Lancaster foe 14 Barnyard cry -15 Just off 1& Needle case 17 Catfish  gowns 39 News paragraph 41 Angry responses 43 Sale tag warning 44 Parcels, with  "-ofthe Mind" &9 "Pagliacci" soprano 70 Pluck 71 Kind of cat 72 First-rate 73 Without  
20 Journalist­ "out"  
Rogers St. Johns 21 Subway support 22--Lanka  4&-Gay 48 Teachers' org. 49 Flounder 52 The other  DOWN 1 Eastern Church title 2Aium  
23 Time piece? 25 England's Harrogate, e.g. 27 Sole 3&My--, Vietnam 37 The "N" of U.N.C.F.  woman 53 "Welcome" bearer 540p.­57 Cayugas or Senecas 61 Coronet &5 Bass  3 Slip (into) 4 Lace place 5 For whom Efvis recorded &Wings 7 Future stallion a Once-mighty initials 9 Discuss  
tiresomely  

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 1°Craving
11 G1ant Mel et aL 

.----r----r--.--r----. 
12 Penitent one ~=+'-'-+=-+=-! 13 Diva -T e Kanawa 18 House of Lords 

--~~tl!rnJ~~~[tt)li. member
II 19 Hiked 
~.::::.j.!~~~~.;. j-:.4.:.:.,~--;+:;.+::~ 24 City on the Skunk River .-=::.+::+-! 26 Bhutan's locale 

~~:.+=-+=-!-.:.. ·~.:::.j.:.~ ~;+:::+;..~ 27 Aerial view provider at sports events 

j.:..:.IH::.J.::.Jill~g::.:.j.:,:.jiiiiiii~B~~ 28 Shoot-'em-up, 
perhaps 29 Link 30 Girl-watched 


The Office of Recreational Sports would like to thank all those persons who made this past year a great success. 
All Participants Loftus Sports Center Joyce Center Ice Rink Athletic Grounds Crew Athletic Commissioners 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 


THANK YOU! 
E 
0 
i u 
i £! "' 

TI-\E5E AREN'T THE &ST RE.COr"\1"\ENDATIONS IN THE WORLDI BUT THE PRICE Wl\5 VERY REASONABLE.. 

Joyce Athletic & Convocation Center Intramural OHicials & Aerobic Instructors Student Supervisors & Issue Room Workers Medical Services, EMT's & First Aid Personnel RecServices Course Instructors 
The Observer • TODAY page 23 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries-You shouldn't
C't1oN ... bo 
really be expressing your­
tT FoRIHE 
self very fully right now. 
C!94RE 11"E_t 
There are too many inter­esting little tidbits that could get into the wrong hands. 
Taurus-There are changes going on, and you are one of the people help­ing direct them. It's easy for you to make decisions, whereas for some it's prac­tically impossible. 
Gemini-You're beginning 
MIKE PETERS -to look at the tough assign­ments as a challenge instead of a terrible bur­
I TAKe: lT ~ FOROOT 
den. Your enthusiasm and
1lH~ BEAN BA6 
sense of humor have come
CHAIR WAS GREEN. 
bouncing back, or they will 

Puzzle by Nancy S. Ross 
31 It's spent on the Riviera 
32 Tevye in the movie "Fiddler on the Roof" 
33Anwar's successor 
34 Bay window 35Attempt 40 Field for an 
engr. 
42 Urban blight 45 Look after 47 Cremona 
violinmaker 50 Astray 
soon. 

Cancer-Remember that stack of papers you're avoiding? All those phone calls to return and letters to write? You'd rather do ·ust about anything else, and that's why the stack keeps growing. 
Leo-A meeting with friends should go well this SCOTT ADAMS 
morning, once you get over the initial differences of opinion.
I DON'T LIKE THIS 
Virgo-Confusion reigns
ONE ABOUT ROLLING 
as the boss changes his or 
~ROUND ON UNWA51-\EO 
her mind every· few min­!-\AI'-\BURGER 
utes. Just when you think you've got things sched-

51 Con games 60 Icelandic work 54 Silent one &2 Pearl Mosque 55 Seat of Allen locale 
County, Kan. 63 Curb, with "in" 56 Divide into two 64 Humanities 58 Bakery worker 66 Nettle 59 Carpenter in an 67 Completed a 
1859 novel lap? 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
Rectors ND Security The Observer ND Golf Course Rockne Memorial Rolf's Aquatic Center 

ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER UNIVERSITY Of NOTRE DAME 
uled, the itinerary gets revised again. 
Libra-You're trying to be two places at once this morning. That could cause a problem. For example, don't attempt to do errands on the way to work. 
Scorpio-There are changes going on and some of them could work to your advantage, if you're in the right place at the right time. 
Sagittarius-You'll run into competition today. Actually, this person is someone you love to hate. You keep each other on your toes, and that's good. 
Capricorn-There are let­ters to write, phone calls to answer, forms to fill out, and that's just before lunch. After that, your communications are more apt to bring money in. 
Aquarius-How long has it been since you got your sweetheart something romantic, something he or !)he could keep as an heir­loom? 
Pisces-A conversation with a roommate may have you rattled this morning. You're not sure which way to go. Don't worry. By later today, the best route should become obvious. 
..,. 
r 
-

....:. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Tuesday, April 28, 1998 
• fOOTBALL 

Jackson gets last warmup before fall 
ByJOECAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
The next time .Jarious Jackson will step into Notre Dame Stadium, it will bf:' for real. 
No more practice runs. Eighty-thousand screaming fans in tho stadium and the millions watching on NBC will have their eyes focused e.losely on Notre 
Dame's start­ing quarter­back. 
Jackson and the Irish ended spring praetice with 
the 68th annual Blue­Gold game as he prepares for next fall. "I think you can see the talent that Jarious has," head coach Bob Davie 

"It's between now and Sept. 5 against Michigan to get those things eliminated." 
Jackson !lashed signs or his tremendous play-making abili­ty, but the consequences of those chances were also dis­played in his turnovers. 
''Jarious is not afraid to pull the string," Davie said. "It's the fine line of trying to be a little more under control but not so 
'ITHINK YOU CAN SEE THE TALENT THAT JARIOUS HAS. HE CAN THROW THE FOOTBALL. WHEN WE PUT THE OPTION PHASE IN, HE'LL SHOW HIS RUNNING ABIU­
TIES. 
B D

DB ltVIE 
liEAD FOOTBALL COACH 
said after the Blue-Gold game. "He can throw the football. When we put the option phase in, he'll show his running abili­ty." 

.... 
Jackson led the Blue squad to a 38-7 win, passing for an impressive 248 yards on 15-for­31 passing. one touchdown, and three interceptions. 
The last figure makes Irish fans a bit concerned, as well as the head eoach. 
''I'm concerned about the interceptions, there's no ques· tion; but it's all a part of the growing process," Davie said. 
under control that you become a robot. But I think the most positive thing about Jarious is that when he does turn the ball over. he bounces back; he's not aguy that stays down long. I 
think that's the advantage he has had 

being in the program and not being thrown to the wolves too soon. He's sat back and seen how things work." 
During the game Jackson also showed his aggressiveness and desire to make up for the over­thrown pass. He seemed to take it out on the player in the sec­ondary who picked him off. 
After .Jackson's interceptions he made· probably two of the best hits of the game as he drilled one defensive'back out of bounds and rushe.d up to make 
see JACKSON I page 21 
• TRACK 
Deeter sets. pace on Irish team 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Spans Writer 
Sophomore JoAnna Deeter has overcome tremendous odds on the road to becoming the most successful female runner in Notre Dame history. 
Dm\ter won that distinction by placing third at thn national cross country meet in her freshman year, after making the final decision to run cross country at Notre Dame only late that summer. She claims to have been "sucked into" dis­tance running. Originally a shot putter, she ran with the dis­tance squad one day and kept going back to it due to her ini­tial display of talent. 
A four-time all-state selection in track in high school and also in her one prep school cross country season, two of her favorite races were at the state track meet her junior and senior years. In running the mile, it came down to a photo finish both years, and both times, Deeter came out behind, but she loved not knowing who won until the last second. Despite her high school suc­cess, athletics did not play a role in her decision to come to Notre Dame. 
"I love running," said Deeter. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

"I just didn't know if I wanted 
JoAnna Deeter has overcome the odds to become the fastest Irishto compete." 
woman in history in the 3,000 meters. 

After completing the summer training program recommended by Notre Dame coaches Joe Piane and Tim Connelly, she decided to go out for the team. Almost immedi­ately, she had a major impact on the squad, placing first in her collegiate debut and finish­ing among the top three runners in every cross country meet her freshman year. 
Her biggest success came at the NCAA meet, where she took third, the highest ever of any Notre Dame woman. That year, she was also a finalist for the Honda Award, a national award given in athletics. 
"She's just a great competitor. She keeps dri­ving herself to succeed," said Connelly. "Obviously, she's been givnn a whole lot of ability, but she's not afraid to work and has overcome a whole lot of problems. I think last year, when she came in and ran so well right 
see DEETER I page 21 
• BASEBAll 

Kalita throws all nine as Irish shipwreck Pirates 
By ALLISON KRILLA Yesterday, pitcher Tim es, allowing 10 hits and one Associate Sports Editor Kalita took his turn, tossing a walk, while fanning a career­nine-inning, complete game, high 10 batters and lowering 
On a team loaded with tal­the f'irst of his career, as the his EHA to 2.67. ent, you rwvPr know who will Irish, downed Seton Hall 6-1. "Kalita just did a great job emerge as the next hero. Kalita (4-0) threw 118 pitch-[yestnrday]." head coach Paul 
Mainieri said. "Jie was otit­standing -a mir­ror image of his out­i n g against Miehigan. He was in total con­t r o I , throwing all three pitches f o r strikes." 
T h e sopho­more lefty has given up just 
o n e 

Freshman Tim Kalita lowered his ERA to 2.67, striking out a career high.10 batters against earned Seton Hall to improve his record to 4-0 on the season. run in his 
-

last 21 1/3 innings. 
"I felt really good out there," Kalita said. "My fastball and curveball were working well. I'm glad I could go out and pitch well." 
Sophomore third baseman Brant Ust continued his hot 
Notre Dame 
·~ 
~·r,Seton Hall 1 
hitting, going 3-for-4 to lead the Irish yesterday and 9-for­12 in the three-game series against Seton Hall. Ust raised his season average to .424 and slugging percentage to .82(>, while knocking in his 50th RBI of the year. 
"I think their plan was to throw me a lot of breaking balls and off-speed stufl'," Ust said. "I took a risk and waited back on the ball. I saw the way they were pitching l.lefl'] Wagner, so I just sat back and waited. It was really nice because I had a lot of family tlwrn this woekend." 
With a .(>27 batting averag1~ in Big East games, Ust is on pace to set a conference record. 
"[Seton llall'sl intention was to pitch around him," Maini1H·i said of Ust's performance. "But he's n~ally in a zone; lw has ris1m to tlw oeeassion in big games all year for us." 
Notre Dame openod the scoring as Dan Leatherman put the Irish on the board with a two-out, two-run single to center in the lirst inning. 
After the Pirates plated their lone run of the game, on back­to-hack doubh~s carried by the swirling winds at Carroll Field, the Irish addod runs in tho fourth, sixth, seventh and ninth. 
Catcher Mike Kneeht, start­ing in plaee of Wagner who is suffering from a sore shoul­der, hit a big two-out si11glc in the fourth and came around to 
see KALIT A I page 22 


Michigan State Hofstra ~: Today, 7:05p.m. 
a)
Saturday, 2 p.m. 

~ • Softball takes on ISU at home Indiana State (DH) 
Tennis 
~
'Aw 
see page 22 Today, 4 p.m. 
MIAA Tournament 
St" ..... 
·~ Friday-SaturdayTrack 

• Arena anchors SMC softball 
~ 

at Big East Championship Softball see page 18Villanova, Pa. 
MIAA Tournament 
Jlt 
S\<t
Saturday-Sunday Friday-Saturday 
~ 







