
Thursday, February 5, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 85 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Legacy of Ryan White lives on 
''Since Ryan's death, my life has been dedicated to 
eduction and prevention efforts through the Ryan 
White Foundation." . 
Jeanne White-Ginder, speaking on her efforts for AIDS education and prevention 
By SARAH HILTZ 
A<sistanr News Editor 
In December 1984, Jeanne White-Ginder told her 
hemophiliac son Ryan that he had contracted AIDS from 
a tainted blood product. Doctors believed that Ryan 
would only live six more months. 
Ryan's outlook on his disease was quite simple-he 
only wanted to stay in school and live a relatively nor­
mal life. However, the White's home town of Kokomo, 
Ind.. was not accommodating. Ryan was denied the 
chance to attend school, and the ensuing court battles 
turned Ryan into an international celebrity and Jeanne 
into an educator of the masses. 
Since Hyan's death in 1990 at the age of 18, White­
Ginder has crusaded for the rights of people with AIDS, 
emphasizing the need for compassion and education. In 
1990, Senators Edward Kennedy and Orin Hatch invited 
her to Washington, D.C., to lobby for the Ryan White 
Comprehensive AIDS Resource Act (CARE). The bill, 
which passed, called for federal funding of AIDS educa­
tion, research and emergency medical care. 
Later that same year, White-Ginder, in an effort to 
educate young people about HIV and AIDS, began giving 
lectures. Her next talk will be tomorrow night in 
flesburgh Auditorium at 7 p.m. 
Tomorrow night's audience can expect a multi-media 
presentation including clips from different movies and 
information about The Ryan White Foundation, of which 
White-Ginder is president and founder, said Brian 
Churney, program director of ideas and issues at SUB. 
The Hyan White Foundation seeks to educate teens 
and adolescents on issues related to HIV and AIDS. She 
has also recently published a book, "Weeding Out The 
Tears." an account of her life since her son's death and 
her efforts to cope with his death, her remarriage and 
many emotionally taxing AIDS issues. 
Information from Keppler Associates, Inc. contributed to this report. 



EPIDEMIC 
1982: Officials rename it 1987: The first 1993: The World Health 
acquired immune Organization predicts 40
anti-HIV drug, deficiency syndrome -AIDS AZT, is approved million HIV cases by 2000 

1981: CDC coins 
1984:Robert
unusual cancers 
Gallo
and infections: 
discovers the 
gay-related 
AIDS virus, 
immune riPfii..,;.,,n,.ut 
HIV 

CAMPAIGN TRAIL 
This week, The Observer will print articles about all 9 tickets running for student body president and vice president. 
Peter Cesaro/Andrea Selak 
II>  Kevin Corrigan/Brian Doherty Michele Costello/Adrian Cuellar  
Tim Fitzsimons/Brian Murphy  
Alfonso Kennard/Walker Candelario  
II> II>  Mark Leen/Sarah Grunow Walter J. Poirier/Gregory E. Smith Matt Tomko/Ross Kerr Brandon Williams/Julie Reising SEEP. 3 FOR STORIES ABOUT TODAY'S FEATURED CANDIDATES  


1996: Worldwide, 20 
million people have 
1990: Ryan White, a 
been infected with 
charismatic teen with 
HIV: 4.5 million have 
hemophilia, dies of 
developed AIDS
AIDS 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Senate questions students' mass off-campus exodus 
ByTIMLOGAN 
News Writer 
The increasing number of students moving off cam­pus was one of the major issues discussed at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
Katie Beirne informed senators about the planned focus of Student Union Spring Report to the Board of Trustees. The report will discuss the question, "Why are increasing numbers of Notre Dame undergradu­ates moving off campus?" 
The report has not been fmalized. The report may be modified based on an upcoming Student Union Board survey of student opinions and wants, but it will likely include suggestions for adjustments to uni­versity policies on parietals and alcohol. If public opinion supports SUB, it will also propose a coed resi­dence option. 
A number of past reports have called for coed resi­dence halls, and none have been successful to date. Beirne points to an increase in students moving off campus in the last 10 years, and numbers which have "skyrocketed since the early 90s," as reasons to con­sider changes in residence life policy. 
"The report will focus on the effect which more peo­ple moving off has on campus life," Beirne said. "We don't think the Board of Trustees realizes how many people go off, and how great the impact has been." 
Among the ideas discussed as possible options for coed habitation included setting aside one dorm for seniors who wished to live in a coed environment, or using the Morris Inn, which will soon be replaced with a new hotel, as a residence for men and women. Another option is to build "off-campus housing on campus" or putting apartment<; on the fringes of the university grounds. 
"We're not going to try and shove coed residence down (the Board of Trustees') throats," said Beirne, "but the more we remind them of what's going on, on campus, the better chance we have of getting a coed option." 
Not everyone present was optimistic about the idea. 
"It took 110 years for the university to admit women, I don't think [co-ed residence halls] are ever going to happen," said O'Neill senator Rajit Basu. "What's holding it back is the tradition of our single sex, fraternity/sorority style dorms." 
"If you take the co-residence angle," predicted 
Fisher senator Chip Warden about the report, "you're 
going to lose credibility;" 
Beirne herself was not optimistic about a speedy 
resolution of the issue. "We don't think this is going to 
happen in the next year or two, it may not be for 10 
or 20 years." 
The report topic was unanimously approved by the 
Senate, and the document will be further prepared 
for presentation to the Board later this semester. 
see SENATE I page 8 




SMC to end spirit week with dance 
By LISA MAXBAUER 
News Writer 
A conspicuous line of students has formed near the entrance of the Saint Mary's dining hall this past week. These students were not congregating there for the food. They were rushing to pur­chase the last of the 1,000 avail­able tickets for this Friday night's All-Campus Formal. 
The dance, "Light Up Your Life," is the culmination of Saint Mary's 1998 Spirit Week, sponsored by the Resident Hall Association [RHA]. Each of Saint Mary's four resident halls have devoted a day towards such spirit. 
Kim McNulty, Regina Hall direc­tor and RHA advisor, admitted that the week prior to the dance was ideal for such an occasion. "The All-Campus Formal is one of the biggest events RHA plans each year," McNulty said. "We want the entire week to build up to it." 
Regina Hall has set the pace for the rest of the week with Monday being its designated day of spirit. Regina Hall Council held a pool party in the dorm. The home bas­ketball game was another popular place to display spirit on Monday night as the Belles' reigned victori­ous over Bethel College. 
Holy Cross Hall planned a night of activities for Tuesday, offering activities ranging from tie-dying to games in the basement of the building. 
Wednesday witnessed McCandless' early morning bagel and muffin breakfast while the hall director, Christy Heidbreder, taught crafts in the evening. 
LeMans will be showing its hall spirit tonight, entertaining resi­dents with the music of its very own Hotel Pratti in the lobby. LeMans is also selling slices of Papa John's pizza for a buck dur­ing the concert. 
Annunciata plans to hold a senior breakfast tomorrow morn­ing, encouraging residents to wear Holy Cross apparel or the hall color of green. 

The daily activities finally end with the much anticipated dance at the Century Center. Claire Oravec, RHA chairperson of the formal, hopes to see the committee's hard work pay off Friday night. "It's. 
see SPIRIT I page 8 

r 
! 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Breaking the Pattern 
Thank God. We have a woman running for presi­dent. 

.Iust before the final student body president/vice pmsident elections last spring, I wrote an Inside Column about the fact that a woman has never held the position of stu­

Allison Koenig 
Associa£e News Ediwr
dent body president at Notre Dame. 

I pointed out that of the 18 candidates for oflice in last year's election, only two were women, and they were both hoping for the vice presidential position. I also pointed out that one of those women had more student government experience than ANY of the can­didates, including her running mate. 
ller name is Mary Gillard, and although her ticket lost in the election, she was selected as chief of staff by the Griflin!Nass administra­tion shortly after the election. 
I did not intend to single out Gillard and harass her for not running for president; every situation is different, and I have never dis­cussed with Gillard, or her partner Matt Szabo, about how they decided who would try for which position. 
To me, the answer seemed obvious: the Notre Dame students would not elect a woman to that esteemed position. To the best of my knowledge, only one woman has ever cam­paigned for the top position. She lost the elec­tion. 
I am not implying that she lost the race because she is a woman; her campaign could have included completely lame or unattainable goals. 
However, there is a pattern here that cannot be ignored: IN MORE THAN A QUARTER OF A CENTUHY, A WOMAN HAS YET TO BE CHO­SEN AS THE PHIMARY STUDENT VOICE OF TilE UNIVERSITY. 
This year, that pattern could be shattered; we have a woman running for president. 
Michele Costello is her name. And although I have never spoken to, nor laid eyes on this woman. I cannot help but direct to her every ounce of respect in my being. 
I Ier choice to seek the office of president is nothing but admirable and commendable. She absolutely deserves the recognition and rever­ence of the Notre Dame community, especially that of the female students. HEY! Notre Dame women! She has just opened doors for all of you. 
I don't know what Costello's platform entails, or if I would even vote for her. Notre Dame should not elect a candidate strictly bast!d on sex. However, I do assert that she should receive your respect; whether or not she receives your votes. 
As a Saint Mary's student, it is somewhat diflicult for me to comprehend this history of not having a leading woman. My experience as an editor of this publication. where I not only read student government reports but SCHUTINIZE them, has heightened my percep­tion of gender issues within Notre Dame's stu­dent government framework. 
Women are very active in all branches of the government; in no way is it an exclusive dub for men. It just doesn't make sense that student body presidential incumbency has been, thus far, an experience shared by only men. 
This could change as soon as this year. Thank God. We have a woman running for president. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
'  News  Accent  
David Zachry  Emmen Malloy  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Jenn Zarorski  
Allison Koenig  Graphics  
Tom Enright  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Amhony Bianco  Heather Hogan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  Patrick Quigley  
Jeff Hsu  
Thurs~ay 
36 24 Friday I 45 29 Saturday 37 278 Sunday ~.. 40 24 23


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is puhlishcd Monday through Friday ncc:pr during exam and VOJ.carion periods. The Observer is a member of rhc A"soci:nC"d Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Thursday, February 5,1998 



C:v;t>utside the Dome 
\£ \J Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Harvard student testifies in Clinton scandal 


CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
Kirkland House resident J. Caroline Self '99 testified before a grand jury in Washington, D.C., yes­terday, in the latest round of inves­tigations into President Clinton's alleged sexual peccadilloes. 
Self worked as an intern in the office of President Clinton's person­al secretary, Betty Currie, from June 1996 to December 1996. 
During that time, she allegedly signed for most of the packages for­mer White House intern Monica Lewinsky mailed to the executive mansion after she began working at the Pentagon. 
"I know of no improper relation­ship between the president and Monica Lewinsky or any other White House intern," Self said yes­terday at an ad hoc press confer­ence outside the U.S. Court House. 
Self did not comment to the 
national press about her testimony to the grand jury. She also declined to discuss allegations that she signed for packages. 
Her father, Hank Self, who is her lawyer, said that she "signed for a lot of packages [in general]." 
Deborah E. Gershman, press spokesperson for Special Prosecutor Kenneth W. Starr. would not dis­cuss Self's testimony with The Crimson. 
Starr told CNN yesterday that he plans to pursue an aggressive inves­

• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
Senior pleads not guilty to murder 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

UF business administration senior Fernando Aquiles 
Capablanca stood in court Tuesday morning and pleaded 
not guilty to accessory to murder after the fact. His 
predicament, officials alleged, is the result of a 10-hour 
stretch one December night that forever changed his life 
and the lives of four other Gainesville students. In the 
early morning hours of Dec. 14, a man was killed. Ralph 
Alphonso Vasquez was left beaten and shot in Newberry's 
Watermelon Pond Park, the final act of a drug deal gone 
bad. Now 10 people, including Capablanca and four Santa 
Fe Community College students, are charged with the 
drug-related crime and if convicted, one could get the 
death penalty. Capablanca, arrested on Jan. 8, is out of 
jail on $30,000 bond and staying with his family in Miami. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 
Professor e-mails racist statements 
LINCOLN, Neb. 

Some have condemned it. Some don't mind it. And oth­ers aren't quite sure what to think about it. But either way, an English professor's e-mail that could be consid­ered racist has raised many eyebrows at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln. David Hibler, an English professor at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, sent pieces of prose that contained the term "nigga" to several UNL faculty members through a university e-mail server. Chancellor James Moeser said in a statement Tuesday that he con­demned the e-mail because he thought parts of it could be considered racist. He said he regrets "that the university's e-mail system has been used in this way." Contacted on his cellular phone Tuesday night, Hibler said he could not talk to the Daily Nebraskan. In other parts of Hibler's e­mail, which read like news briefs, Hibler is quoted as say­ing he has been the legal parent of "a Black but beautiful Young Nigga whom I am proud to call my oldest son."lf this doesn't make me a Nigga outright, then it certainly makes me a certified Nigga lover." 
tigation. 
"We are trying to get to the truth of what would be, if proven, serious charges," he told CNN. 
On NBC's Today Show, James Carville, a senior advisor to President Clinton, said Lewinsky visited the White House 36 times between April 1996 and December 1997. 
Self also vindicated the much-bal­lyhooed White House intern pro­gram at yesterday's press confer­ence. 
"I continue to have the utmost respect for the President, his staff and his agenda," she said. 
Selfs family said they were proud of her. 
"I can't think of anything more exciting than my granddaughter being on the world news," said Selfs grandmother, Shirley Self. 
• MARQUETTE UNIVERSITY 
Students suffer from sleep deprivation 
MILWAUKEE, Wis. 
Increased workload, deadline pressure and an insa­
tiable urge to stay up later leaves college students bereft 
of the sleep they once took for granted. "Since I've come to 
college, I haven't been able to sleep when I need to, or 
stay awake when I have to," freshman Bill Osmulski said. 
"I fall asleep in class all the time."Osmulski said he suffers 
from sleep deprivation as well as insomnia, getting an 
average of six hours or less of sleep per night. Student 
Health Services at Marquette recommends students get 
between eight and 10 hours of sleep per night. This will 
allow them to stay alert, focused and energetic throughout 
the day. Anything less than that ean lead to dozing in class 
and decreases the ability to concentrate on work -adding 
more stress to an already hectic lifestyle. 
• PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Student claims selective prosecution 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Penn State sophmore Hobert Fix, who was charged in December with possession of drugs and paraphernalia, goes before a Centre County judge today in his prelimi­nary hearing. If his case goes to trial, he said he will attempt to use the defense of selective prosecution. On Dec. 15, 1997, Fix, a chemistry major, was arrested and charged with possession of a small amount of marijuana and paraphernalia, according to court documents. Fix allegedly was smoking marijuana when State College police responded to a noise violation call at his South Allen Street apartment. Upon their arrival, State College police officers saw a glass pipe with marijuana residue, in addition to five grams of marijuana, according to the doc­uments. The confiscated substance was tested and deter­mined to be marijuana, according to the documents. Selective prosecution is when inconsisteneies exist between prosecuting different criminals.Chief Public Defender David Crowley, Fix's attorney said. "Selective enforcement is something that we will at least look into." 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 5. 

: 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
'[.......... .,; 
L 
_,/ 

Mon;~~y-J\/~~ 38 
V'-ASilOC/11/Itd Pren 


na e1m  63  49  leveland  38  26  ham a  38  21  
Boston  36  28  GrandRapids  40  24  Philadelphia  40  30  
8,~,~86.frc8 (f  ~ u  Buffalo Chicago  38 40  23 28  Grosse Point Houston  41 56  26 37  Salem San Antonio  55 58  42 37  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Cincinahi  34  25  Jackson  40  30  Youngstown  27  38  
Via Associated Press GraphicsNst  


-~ ---~ ~~----­
~-~-------~-~--·--~----.------------------~ 

• MAn TOMKO/ROSS KERR 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE the job done." always a big parade," he said. Associate News Editor Tomko and Kerr emphasized "The parade committee selects a that they take all their st1.:.dent mushroom banner-holder, and 
President and vice president government positions seriously. high school guys who have been hopefuls Matt Tomko and Ross Tomko is the chairman of the really active in their school and Kerr have several things in com­Student Senate multicultural community get selected. It is mon. but a love of mushrooms is council, while Kerr serves as the considered a big honor." not one of them. senate Student Union Board An honor, coincidentally, that 
Both Tomko and Kerr serve as [SUB] relator and a member of Tomko held for two years. student senators this year; both both the Oversight and the ad "People make fun of mush­shy away from the term "politi­hoc committee for a student bill rooms, but there is actually a lot cian"; both believe they can be a of rights. of good opportunity there," he voice for the student body. "We are both more'than just said. 
And both think that they can members of senate," Tomko But Tomko has moved beyond make a difference if elected to said. "We are active members of the mushroom parade to lead an 

The Observer/John Daily 

office. senate, and that makes a huge ambitious platform for the office 
Kerr, left, and his running mate Tomko suggest a full scholarship a stu­"Ross and I have seen how difference." of student body president dent who can make a shot from half court during Midnight Madness. things work," Tomko, a junior Another thing that Tomko is One of the main thrusts of the 
Trustees. dents should make sure our resident of Knott I fall, said of the serious about is mushrooms. His campaign is to see more student "This is actually in the voice is heard." 

time he and his running mate hometown of Kennett Square, input with the administration, University bylaws, but has never Tomko agreed. "A student onhave spent actively participating Penn., is the "mushroom capital and both candidates think that been implemented," Kerr, a this board would make it a lotin several facets of student gov­of the world." the first step to accomplishing sophomore from Siegfried, said. 
ernment. "Obviously we aren't "We have this mushroom festi­this goal would be to place a stu­"The Board of Trustees is where see TOMKO-KERR I page 4politicians. But as a team we get val every year, and there is dent on the University's Board of everything starts, and we as stu­
• KEVIN CORRIGAN/BRIAN DOHERTY 
High school acquaintances team up to be executives 
The candidates will be the first student government, enjoys form focuses on improving the to admit their inexperience in interhall sports, such as lacrosse general safety and convenience student government. Although and baseball. of the campus. With improve­never holding an official student "We did our homework and ments such as telephones in government office, the two found out what changes people parking lots D2 and 02000 and attend hall council meetings reg­want to see that will affect their increased lighting in dimly lit ularly and are very active within everyday lives," added Corrigan, areas on campus, Corrigan and their dorm. also a Finance major and food Doherty believe that the general 
They are ignorant as to what commissioner for Stanford. safety of the students will be they can and cannot do in office, The two consider themselves to greatly improved. and to them, that is a good thing. be "pretty normal" students who Other ideas the candidates They feel they will be most bene­just happen to observe the every­have include adding sidewalks to ficial to the students of the day hassles and inconveniences certain areas of the campus, University by simply experiment­they know other students would especially around Pangborn Hall, ing with their positions and doing like to change. where the presence of traffic can all they can to serve the students' Their campaign slogan, "Great cause a safety hazard for jog­needs. expectations for simple changes," gers. 
"We don't know what our lim­is one which stresses the impor­"It doesn't really serve the pur­By CHRISTINE KRALY for four years, they had never its are," said Doherty, a Finance tance of a simple improvement pose it's supposed to be serving," News Writer really known each other that well major and vice presidential can­creating a significant impact. said Corrigan, who stressed the until they came to Notre Dame. didate. "We have ideas; we know They also wish to maintain and idea that the use of detex in If somr.one had told Kevin Juniors and roommates at what we want to change." promote positive programs on women's dorms during the day­Corrigan or Brian Doherty in Stanford Hall, the two high With this fresh and ambitious campus, such as Saferide. light hours provides more of a :gl. '10ol ··'tt they would Oit. school classmates are eager attitude toward student office, "There are simple things we hassle rather than a safety pre­
• 1Je running mates in the elec-about the prospect of becoming the two are taking an "outsiders think we can change," comment­caution. 
. , for president and vice presi­the leaders of the University's looking in" approach to their ed Corrigan. They both believe He highlighted both the incon­dent of the student body at Notre student body. campaign. that with a few minor adjust­venience and hazard of using the Dame, they would have thought "We're excited about this," said "We just have a lot of simple, ments to certain aspects of cam­detex during the day, stating that that person was crazy. Corrigan, who is running for practical changes ... that will pus life, the experience at Notre it is just as easy for a stranger to 
That's because, even though president on the ticket. "With make life around here in general Dame will easily become more they both attended Chaminade Brian and I, you're getting fresh more enjoyable," said Doherty, pleasant see CORRIGAN-DOHERTY I high school in Long Island, N.Y.. energy." who along with his interest in The main point of their plat-page 4 
• WALTER POIRIER/GREGORY SMITH 
Undercla~smen challenge veterans to lead student body 
By S~RAH DYLAG Smith, a movie aficionado who not completely realistic at first, News Writer claims he can name any actor but emphasizes that the two from any movie, agrees. "We're have absolutely no reservations 
If there's one thing that Wally more approachable," he now that the campaign has Poirier and Greg Smith know explained. begun. they can contribute to Notre Poirier, who is running for "We're having fun and looking Dame if elected student body president, first met his running forward to participating in stu­president and vice president, it's mate at this year's Freshmen dent government at this level." a fresh outlook in student gov­Orientation. As a member of Smith, a sports fan from ernment. Zahm's Freshmen Orientation Strongsville, Ohio, who enjoys 
They are, after all, a sopho­committee, Poirier helped Smith playing Nintendo with friends, more and a freshman whose step out, get involved, and meet wants to draw on his experience direct involvement in student people. lie even encouraged him as a freshman to initiate change. government has not been exten­to run for section leader. Though he has only been at sive. "Greg took the role very well. Notre Dame for six months, he 
But Poirier. publicity commis­He didn't shy down from the admits to seeing problems that sioner for Zahm Hall and a mem­challenge, and he beat me at sec­"shouldn't be a hassle to ber of the gender issues commit­tion leader," explained Poirier. change." Especially because he tee, and Smith, a section leader Now, the two are friends who does not drink or go to bars. applied to and was accepted at Though he applied to five in Zahm, fail to see their age or think they can offer a new per­"I want to bring the Notre various universities, he knew all schools, he was only accepted at experience as obstacles. spective for student government Dame family back home and along that Notre Dame was his two -Notre Dame and a state 
"We feel that's one of our "We got our hands on a peti­attract students to stay on cam­first choice because he had school in Massachusetts. strong suits," said Poirier. "It's tion and it seemed like a good pus," he said. always wanted to come here. When faced with the decision one of our motivations in run­idea," said Porier, who first Perhaps his desire to "bring Poirier, while hesitant to claim between the two places, he felt ning. We have no political debts approached Smith with the idea the family back home" stems a lifetime love for the University, he had no choice. "But I wouldn't and we're ready to take this of running. from his admitted lifetime love believes that divine intervention trade it for the world," he added. 
head on." He admits that the idea was for Notre Dame. Though he led him to attend Notre Dame. 
see PORRIER-SMITH I page 4 




page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 5, 1998 
bility." really pumped. If we gave out lot­believe that they comple­And part of this responsibility to tery tickets and let the winning tick­ment each other and pro­
To01ko-Porrier­
the students, Kerr said, was to et make this shot for a free ride to vide a balanced ticket. 
make the environment of Notre Notre Dame, there's an incentive to Describing his running mate 
Dame more student-friendly. come to the games. And I am confi-· as a "straight-laced guy who 
Kerr SDlith"Have you been in the basement dent that they will keep coming likes to play by the rules." 
of the library?" he asked. "It is like back, even without the incentive." Poirier explained that many continued from page 3 a prison cell. It reminds me of some Tomko and Kerr do not think this continued from page 3 of the goals and issues the 
two plan to address were

easier to attack the issues," he com­dungeon." idea is unrealistic; they plan on 
The two believe that 
developed by Smith.

mented. Kerr said that he would like to see approaching the Student Alumni 
bringing the Notre Dame 
"He's present, here and

But both candidates expressed this space opened up to be accessi­Relations Group for the funds. 
family back home means 
now. I'm more forward

that the goals of their platform go ble and a "place that students "The only objection the University 
providing interesting activi­
thinking," Poirier said. 

beyond better administration/stu­would actually want to go." can give us is that they don't have 
ties for students on campus. 
"lie's a pretty wild guy,"

dent relations. "A lot of people in hall council enough money," Tomko said. "If 
Smith believes the best 
said Smith of Poirier. "He's

"The administration loses respect keep saying that student govern­we get the money from the alumni, 
way to bring people togeth­
willing to get his hands dirty 

for the students when they do not ment doesn't do anything," Tomko then there could not be a protest 
er is in a fun, relaxing 
and he will do anything it

hear a unified student voice," interjected. "There is a lot of red from the administration." 
atmosphere, which is why 
takes to inspire people to

Tomko said in reference to the dif­tape at Notre Dame, but I think we Most of all, the candidates 
he hopes to turn the Stepan 
have a good time. He's wild. 

fering opinions on the ethical can get these things accomplished. stressed that they were dedicated to 
Center into a type of dis­
but tame too. lie has a

charges brought against student It is the little things that can make a tackling the issues together to 
cotheque where students 
heart."

body president Matt Griffin in big difference." accomplish their goals. 
could go to dance and hang 
Smith admits, however, to

recent months. "Uttle things," according to Kerr, "We work really well together, 
out, without the presonce of 
having his own quirky side.

"If we can't even stand behind the are things like offering a full schol­but we have friends besides one 
alcoholic beverages. 
lie daims to be the best at

president, then why should they lis­arship to the student who makes a another," Kerr said. "This is an 
Porier agrees, but also 
guessing the weight of

ten to us? The elected student lead­basket from half-court at Midnight ideal relationship for these posi­
believes that the fun of an 
candy in the lluddleMart. 

ers need to bring out the best at Madness, the official kiek-off of the tions. We have a lot of fun together, 
on-campus social scene and 
All joking aside, the two

Notre Dame. There is a responsibili­Notre Dame basketball season. but we take things seriously, too." 
the concentration on the 
cite their drive and motiva­

ty that goes along with the office. 'The Big East basketball confer­And does Kerr take mushrooms 
Notre Dame family at home 
tion as a common strength.

We need to live up to that responsi-ence is the second-best in the coun­as seriously as Tomko? 
..-nust be balanced out with 
"I think I could bring a

try," he said. "But people aren't "I don't like them," he said. 
some sort of community 
strong voiee to this place,"
involvement and service. 
Poirier said. "And Greg

book of information on Notre Dame After graduation, both plan on using 
"We need to bring the stu­
coming out and getting sec­

alumni who arc willing to help stu­their Finance degrees in trying to
Corrigan­
dent body together, but 
tion leader shows he has the 

dents looking for jobs after gradua­find jobs in New York, "possibly on 
without insulation from 
same drive."

tion. The book would include the Wall Street," said Corrigan. 
reality," he explained. 
Smith and Poirier also

names, addresses and occupations Corrigan and Doherty are also 
The single best way to do 
intend to address more seri­

Doherty 
of alumni and would enhance alum­very family oriented, and want to 
this, according to Poirier, is 
ous issues on campus such

ni/student relations. raise children of their own in the 
through community service 
as gender relations and

continued from page 3 When discussing their partner­same fashion as their parents raised 
activities. In his time here at 
believe they will bring

ship, the two are very confident of them. 
Notre Dame, Poirier has

be let into a women's dorm as it is a 
accountability and continu­

each other's abilities. "If I can do half as good a job as 
spent many hours tutoring

hassle for a woman to make a quick 
ity to office.

"He is an overachiever and goes my parents, I'll have very lucky chil­
children in the Northeast

trip to her room. 
"If a senior makes ollice,

after things," said Doherty, who dren," Corrigan commented. "[I 
neighborhood, working with 

The Corrigan/Doherty ticket also 
I'm sure they'd do their

believes Corrigan shares the same plan to] give them [my children] as 
kids not as advantaged as

intends to promote a student data­
best. But with us, there's a

competitiveness he has. "He's a go­much as my parents gave me," 
himself.

base including information about 
chance that, if elected, we

getter. If he wants something, he added Doherty. 
"Community service has

book sales and other campus events 
could run for another term," 

goes after it." Both admit to running for simple 
been one of the most impor­

that are often limited to individual 
said Smith. 

"[Brian] has to be one of the most reasons: They want to help the 
tant parts of my existence

dorm exposure. 
"We offer continuity,"

dependable people I've worked University and its students. "We're 
here," he emphasized. "It is

Corrigan and Doherty stress the 
added Porier. "Should we

with," said Corrigan. "He's one of not running because we've always 
important to share what we

importance of oll~eampus relations, 
get elected, we have a

the most reliable people I've had this desire to be the president 
have with kids in South

as well, especially those concerning 
chance to pursue long term

known." and vice president of the United 
Bend. We have to share the

career opportunities for upper grad­
goals. There are time con­

When not contemplating ways to States," said Corrigan. "We know 
great place we have."

uate and gradual!~ studenb. If elect­
straints we'd overcome

improve the University, the candi­what bothers people and we know 
It is views like these that

ed to office, they plan to set up a 
being hem an 1~xtra year."

dates are planning for the future. we can change that." 
lead Poirier and Smith to 

Oet~~~ir! T!u [L.~t Rzza.l  
Beat the clock Tuesday!! Anytime you call between 5:30 Be 7:00' the price of your large 1 topping pizza is the time you call. * Plus tax ND store Open for lunch everyday 271-1177 . , ,:~:.. ,;;;' ..­llunchSpechd. ··· sm~ a'l]: 1 to.nnin,(fj~~· --~1!!·-·­'i=~¥tt---~Saint Mary's/ 2 cans n1f Coca~Cola nrodu~t .... '-'"'---~ v_ ~~~=­-~-~­f-'-= -­-"'-· North Village Mall ,5··9'9" ':!\'.·--= = 271-PAPA  Anyti you call between 10:30-12:59, the price of your 2 large 1 topping pizzas is the time you call. * Plus tax Drive-In and Delivery Visa/Mastercard Accepted  


Thursday, February 5, 1998 
• NEWS BRIEFS Automakers to introduce cleaner-burning vehicles 
WASHINGTON 

The country's two largest automakers ­
General Motors and Ford -have agreed to 
produce a cleaner-burning car for sale 
nationwide as part of a compromise aimed at 
easing air pollution in the Northeast. The 
new vehicles, which will emit nearly 70 per­
cent less smog-causing tailpipe pollution than 
cars now in showrooms, will be sold begin­
ning in 1999 model years in the Northeast 
and nationwide by 2001. General Motors and 
Ford notified the Environmental Protection 
Agency Wednesday of the decision to produce 
the cl'eaner automobiles, minivans and small 
trucks even though four Northeast states 
have insisted on continuing to require more 
stringent emission standards. "We. are pre­
pared to move forward with this historic 
cooperative agreement," Jacques Nasser, 
president of Ford Automotive Operations, 
said in a statement. Dennis Minano. GM's 
vice president and chief environmental offi­
cer. said he expects other manufacturers to 
participate in the program as well. The deci­
sion means that beginning with 1999 model 
cars, all vehicles sold by Ford and GM, except 
for the larger sport utility vehicles and trucks 
of more than 6,000 pounds, will emit far less 
smog-causing pollution, industry officials 
said. 
Woman diagnosed with malaria after 70 years 
BOSTON, Mass. 

Doctors say they have cured a 70-year­old case of malaria that had been misdiag­nosed as a blood cancer. The doctors said it took just three days to cure the woman, who was 74, once they were sure of the diagnosis. "This appears to be the longest documented ease of malaria on record," said Dr. Joseph Vinetz, who treated the woman while at Johns Hopkins University. Vinetz, who is now at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, described the case in Thursday's issue of the New England Journal of Medicine. Tlie woman lived on the Greek island of Karpathos and was found by a doc­tor in a rural clinic to have an enlarged spleen. The problem was diagnosed as lym­phoma, a type of cancer. and she underwent treatment with the cancer drug methotrex­ate. The medicine was stopped after she developed severe side effects. However, she continued to have an enlarged spleen. Two years later, she went to Baltimore, where her daughter lives, and was examined at .Johns Hopkins. There doctors suspected a mild case of malaria, and tests proved posi­tive. Five doses of the anti-malarial medicine chloroquine eured the disease. "We learned from her sister that she had been infected with malaria when she was· about 3 years old, but was thought to have recovered with­out being treated," Vinetz said. 
S&P 500: Composite 1006.90 Volume: 
+0.91 703,000,000

8129.71 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COM1!6bll: IICI!:t;B ~~~ Cl:l6bli:i£ s(i6t!S l!BIC£ 
l;RAND CE~'TRAL GSI.M 700.00 1.7500 2.00 CAllUS PIIARlA KDU5 49.33 2.3125 7.00 IIOTl.F. DISCOVERY IIOTD 41.18 0.8750 3.00 NOVITRON INTL NOV I 37.14 0.8125 '3.00 TfiF.RlAACF.Ll. TECII VCl.l. 34.38 0.6875 2.69 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
RASTER GRAPHICS RGFX 42.71 1.9219 2.580 LAMINATING T-UTS LAMTU :!0.56 1.3750 3.125 LAMINATING TECII LAMT 28.57 0.7500 1.875 ONTRACK DATA-INTL ONDI 26.81 5.3125 14.50 BASE TEN SYS-8 BASER 25.00 2.5000 7.500 

AFP Photo 

I
raqi female volunteers train at a military camp in Baghdad as a flurry of diplomatic activity attempted to defuse the UN crisis over arms inspections and avert a US military strike. 
Diplomats urge end to Iraqi standoff 
ASSOC1ATED PRESS 

BAGHDAD, Iraq 
Would-be peacemakers from around the world pressed Iraq on Wednesday to end a standoff over weapons inspec­tions with diplomacy before Washington does it with air strikes. Word emerged of possible progress, including an Iraqi offer at compromise. 
Russia insisted there were signs of optimism, but President Boris Yeltsin, using language reminiscent of the Cold War, said a U.S. attack could lead to "world war." 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein, meeting with an envoy from France, said he was striving for "a balanced political solution," the official Iraqi News Agency said. 
Iraq has refused to allow U.N. inspectors into Saddam's palaces and other key sites, calling it a matter of national sovereignty. 
CNN reported the Iraqis were offer­ing to open some -but not all -of the suspected weapons sites to inspec­tors. 
Since March 1996, inspectors have visited 63 sites where they believed the Iraqis were hiding contraband, Charles Duelfer, the deputy chief weapons inspector, said recently. 
Prosecutors 

WASHINGTON 
Prosec'Utors iMestigatirig.·'•• 
an alleged presidential 

affair an;d coy .J:'ej()ct~o........ . 
ed a written r from · · 
Monica to 
in excltanl;e t()r·ttttmq·pt 
individu 
thenego~~a Wednesday~ . 
Lewinsky's Ia;wyers sub'-' mJtted tll,e off~r MoiJday night before tne former White House intern left town for. California, accord­ing to sources who spoke on conditiM ofanonymity. Independent counsel Kenneth Starr's office decfded,.;i;}'y,.e d~y to reject the which •·· came after of 

on.a:gain. Qff,.a,g:!ijjl,ne,gqtia+ i}imnll~(lliatel:Vi:t~t 
Inspectors were delayed from entering 38 of the sites and flatly denied access to 14 others in the name of national security. 
The United States increasingly is threatening to resort to military force to end the Iraqi defiance. Congress worked Wednesday on a resolution authorizing President Clinton to launch air attacks, and U.N. Ambassador Bill Richardson traveled the world seeking support from fellow U.N. Security Council member-nations. 
Defense Secretary William Cohen is to meet with his counterparts in Russia and the Gulf region next week. Stops are to include Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Oman, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Bahrain. He also will meet 
U.S. forces based in the Gulf, officials said. 
Hoping to avert attack, the Arab League's secretary-general and Turkey's foreign minister arrived in Baghdad, joining envoys from Russia and France in pressing Iraqi leaders for a peaceful solution. 
Quoting unidentified sources, CNN said that Iraq was offering to allow 
U.N. inspectors access to eight disput­ed sites for about a month. 
CNN said the Iraqi proposal called for each of the 15 members of the Security Council to appoint five inspec­tors. The 21 countries represented on the U.N. Special Commission, which oversees inspections, would then each appoint two more. 
It said that these experts would make "visits" to the palaces and would report·their findings directly to the Security Council. 
Asked about the reported Iraqi offer, Egyptian Foreign Minister Amr Moussa in Cairo said: "We have been informed by the Iraqis of this." He refused to elaborate. 
Iraqi government officials would not confirm the report, which was similar to an offer Iraq made in November. 
The Americans rejected the earlier plan, saying it appeared to be an attempt by Baghdad to bypass the Special Commission and ignore the commission's mandate to set up long­term monitoring of suspected chemi­cal, biological and nuclear programs. 
At the United Nations, British Ambassador John Weston suggested the latest reported proposal would also prove unacceptable. · 
"The Security Council will want to be satisfied the Special Commission can go about its job in the manner required by Security Council resolu­tions," he said. 
·mmunity 
. p 1996. 

•• T ifKHouse said d ay)ha i11t.o,g. · ·~ . . . ed Jhe (tbotit ·.·...··. L~~Inskymatter, b~t 
f~rmer:,i,·....sepior'.'..·..·~dvis;,.~.r • G~org~i Stephanopoulos said 11aggipg questions ·remain. · .·"The longer the president g§~.s \VlJho'qt ~~llinghis ... · ·.. 
of the story,. the more unease thQre will be Jn )the. ·· >, p~hliC~rsaid Stephartopou1os one day after .tes,tifying befory. the grand jury. A• .· Those called before the grand.Jury o~ Wednesda~ included Bayani Nelvis. a White House steward back · nd.p(que.~t s Engskov 

-~~-~­-~-~----­---------------~-~-­~-----­ 
page 6 Thursday, February 5, 1998The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT  

Calendar of Events 
RCIA Retreat Sunday, February 7 Mary·s Solitude 
Mlsa En Espanol -Spanish Mass Sunday, February 8 
1:30 pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
AIDS Education Week Activities Thursday, February 5 
7:00 pm Library Auditorium Speaker: Jeannie Whlte-Ginder, 
mother of Ryan White Friday, February 6 
7:00 -9:00 pm, Stepan Center Memorial Quilt Opening Ceremonies and Open VIewing 
With: The Glee Club, Mayor Steve Luecke of South Bend and Mayor Robert Beutler of Mishawaka 
Saturday and Sunday, February 7 and 8, 12:00 noon-5:00pm Memorial Quilt Open Viewing 
Sunday, February 8 4:00pm Memorial Quilt Closing Ceremonies Voices of Faith Gospel Choir 
Eucharistic Adoration From 11:30 pm on every Monday through 
10:00 pm on Tuesday, there will be Eucharistic Adoration in Asher Hall Chapel. Adoration begins after celebration of the 
11:00 pm Mass and ends with Benediction. Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament in the Basilica from 12:00 pm until 5:00 pm on Fridays when the University is in session. 
Fifth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Preslders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, February 7 
5:00p.m. Rev. James Flanigan, C.S.C. Sunday, February 8 
10:00 a.m. Rev. David Scheidler, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. James Lies, C.S.C. Vespers Sunday, February 8 7:15p.m. Sr. Mary Catherine Nolan, O.P. Scripture Readings 1st Reading Isaiah 6:1-8 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 15:1-11 Gospel Luke 5:1-11 

Everything You Ever Wanted to Know About Chastity but Were Afraid to Ask 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
I went to lunch the other day with two Notre Dame seniors. It's difficult to explain just how our conversation came around to such topics as sexuality, but eventually it was established that both of the young men were virgins -by choice. I wish that fact, and the fact that I've recounted it here, wasn't so alarm­ing to the average college student. I'm embarrassed to say that I myself was actually surprised by their willingness to share such an intimate detail, especial­ly in a culture which appears to marginalize anyone who would make such a commitment, and certainly anyone who would make it public. Even as such such a choice and such honesty are remarkably refreshing, I don't feel comfort­able using even their first names here for fear that they might come to be known and thought fools for such a choice in our time. The claim that "The names have been changed to protect the innocent," has never meant so much. Both that they are innocent and that, in our time, they need to be protected. Even as I am quite sure there is a silent substantial minority, if not majority at Notre Dame, who live chaste lives, whether by choice or not. 
For some reason, it is not the least bit fashionable, or hip, or cool, or trendy, or whatever the contemporary parlance would label it these days, to talk about sex unless, of course, you're getting some. In what imagineable context, afterall, would someone who chooses chastity have to brag about his or her lat­est exploits? What has created the culture in which we are supposed to be embarrassed for making morally relevant choices? How is it that we have come to a time when sex is portrayed as a virtual recreational activity for which the only moral criterion is mutual consent? I have no answers, and I realize I risk offending many by even taking up the question, but it's high time we stopped to reflect on the choices we've made, and will make, in this regard. 
There is much confusion these days about just what chastity is or why one would choose it. It is all too often thought to imply repression. Sadly, we speak little of the merits of it, even as the choice of it would undoubtedly enhance the lives and happiness of all who would choose it. In an article in America, Mary Patricia Barth Fourqurean writes that "chastity means passionate love for God, others and ourselves, a three-fold love expressed in three different ways, " through marriage, vowed religious life, or the single life. Chastity does not necessarily imply celibacy. The chaste marriage is not sexless, but faithful. For vowed religious, celibate chastity frees us from the exclusive bond of mar­riage in order to be freer to serve God and others. For those who are not called to religious life, and who are not yet married, chastity means "a temporary, non-genital commitment to this three-fold love of God, others and ourselves." The grace in the decision to be chaste is that one is freed from having to renego­tiate the limits of sexual expression with every encounter and every relation­ship, and that one is freed from having to play sexual games. 
Ultimately, what we probably most need to hear about chastity is that it "increases our own sincerity by assuring us that we will not say more with our bodies than we mean with our hearts." It does not rule out rich intimate rela­tionships; it fosters them. Each and all of us long to be men and women of integrity, and to live lives which reflect that which we believe. In a world which seeks instant gratification, there is the real danger that we do not reflect enough about something so important. This is especially true when the worst choices we make in this regard are so often induced by alcohol. Some of the most painful conversations I have had as a rector and as a priest have had to do with the deep regret young men and women have after expressing themselves sexu­ally in a way that was not consistent with who they knew themselves to be, and whom they wanted so desperately to be again. 
It's time to rise to the challenge of living the lives that deep down we know we want. It's time to consider who we are and who we want to be. It's time to support others who would make the same choice, either to maintain their virginity or to reclaim their chastity. The choice for chastity is not about outdated traditions and strictures; it's about living life with integrity. Please don't enter into a sexual relationship because you can't think of a reason not to or because "everybody else is doing it." Enter in because you love the other, and because all of who you are says "Yes!" in the context of a lifetime commit­ment. 
C. S. Lewis said it far better than I when he spoke to a group of college students at Oxford, "Indeed, if we consider the unblushing promises of reward and the staggering nature of the rewards promised in the Gospels, it would seem that our Lord finds our desires, not too strong, but too weak. We are half­hearted creatures, fooling about with drink and sex and ambition when infinite joy is offered us, like an ignorant child who wants to go on making mud pies in a slum because he cannot imagine what is meant by the offer of a holiday at the (2\MPUS sea. We are far too easily pleased." tV11NISTRY 


----------------------------------------------.-------------------------------­
Thursday, February 5, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 
Potential surgeon general sparks debate
Observer' 
vacancy, the nation even needs a the conscience of most

Disputes left position 
surgeon general. The job is often Americans," Ashcroft said in an described as that of "America's interview. He also complained

open for three years 
top doctor" -a benign-sounding that Satcher "championed a term that is a misnomer. range of highly troubling and eth­
Associated Press 
In fact, the surgeon general is ically questionable research," 

By DEREK BETCHER 
WashingtQn CQrrc:spondenr 
Kyle Carlin, Brian Reinthaler and Heather MacKenzie will serve as managing editor, business manager and assistant managing editor, respec­tively, for the 1998-99 year, editor-in-chief Heather Cocks announced yester~ day. 
Carlin, a Turtle Creek resident, is a junior from Raleigh, N.C., and an accounting and computer applications double major. He served as the controJier on The Observer's 1997-98 General Board, and in his spare time, he hones his alligator wrestling skills. 
"I'm excited to have the opportunity to manage The Observer's finances for the coming year." Carlin said. "We have lots of ideas to continue to improve the newspaper." 
The business manager oversees the newspaper's Operations Board and maintains the newspaper's financial budget. 
Reinthaler, a junior from White Plains, N.Y., is a gov­ernment and international studies major. He began working for The Observer two years ago as sports writer and copy editor, and WASHINGTON 
It has been nine years since C. Everett Koop has worn the uni­form of the surgeon general of the United States, yet he calcu­lates that in some months, he spends 30 percent of his time talking to Americans about smok­ing, nutrition, exercise and so on -"the kinds of things," he said in a recent interview, "that a sur­geon general really ought to be doing." 
But no surgeon general has been doing them, because for the past three years there has 
been no surgeon general. 
Dr. Joycelyn Elders, the 'W ,
last person to hold the job, HY DON T YOU TAKE was dismissed by President ONE OF THOSE TRIED ~lint?~ after making AND SURE SEASONED PEOPLE 
1mpohtlc comments about ' masturbation. AND AVOID ALL OF THIS NON-Dr. Henry W. Foster Jr., SENSE?' 
an obstetrician, was named to succeed her, but his nomination failed when he acknowledged having per­formed abortions. 
Now Dr. David Satcher, the head of the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, finds himself mired in similar controversy. 
The Senate took up his nomina­tion Wednesday, and debate is expected to drag into next week, with conservatives vowing to block Satcher's candidacy over the abortion issue, in this case his support for Clinton's refusal to ban a controversial type of late­term abortion, which opponents call partial-birth abortion. 
The fracas has led some to wonder if, after a three-year 
TOiVICHT 
Thursday February 5 
7PM  Jeanne White-Ginder  
Mother of Ryan White [Library Auditorium]  
7PM-9PM  MAKE YOUR MARK on AIDS Awareness* [Lafortune-Near 1st Floor Elevatorsl  

the nation's top public health offi­cial, a role that inevitably collides with public mores when it touch­es on such hot-button topics as distributing condoms to teen­agers and clean needles to drug addicts. 
"No matter who it is, the sur­geon general will be in conflict with the political system, or some segment of our society," said Dr. Mohammad Akhter, executive director of the American Public Health Association. "But in this environment, the only person you 

C. EVEREIT KooP, FORMER SURGEON GENERAL 
could get confirmed would be a monk." 
Public health experts like Akhter argue strongly that the nation needs a surgeon general, and most politicians agree -so long as the candidate shares their views. Among them is Sen. John Ashcroft, R-Mo., whose aides said he would filibuster, if necessary, to prevent the Senate from con­sidering Satcher's nomination. 
"The job certainly isn't worth filling at the price of a surgeon general who would support par­tial-birth abortions that shocked including experiments, paid for by the CDC, involving HIV-infect­ed pregnant women in Africa who are given dummy pills. 
"America," Ashcroft told the Senate Wednesday, "deserves better." 
But Ashcroft's fellow Republican, Sen. William Frist of Tennessee, disagreed. 
He said that even though he favors a ban on partial-birth abortions, he is willing to over­look his differences with Satcher, who for more than a decade 
worked in Nashville as president of Meharry Medical College. 
Like the president, Satcher said he would only support a ban on the procedure, in which doctors partially extract a fetus from the womb, if an exception were made in cases where the life of 
the mother was in jeop­
ardy. "I don't agree with everything that Dr. 
Satcher said or does, nor do I expect to," Frist, himself a doctor, said on the Senate floor. 
In an interview, he said he had been buttonholing his colleagues to garner support for Satcher, and added he believes the head of the centers would "rebuild the credibility" of the surgeon gener­al's office. 
That its credibility needs rebuilding troubles many, includ­ing the 81-year-old Koop, who served from 1981-89 and so embodies the job that some peo­ple think he still holds it. 



Friday Fehnaary 6 7PM-9PM Open Viewing 7PM Open Ceremonies 
Saturday February 7 12PM-5PM Open Viewing Sunday Febnaary 8 12PM-5PM Open Viewing 
4PM Closing Ceremonies 
$T£P~tJV t""EJVT£11 

'MAKE YOUR MARK on AIDS Awareness is sponsored by Student Government. Make a $1 Donation and receive a hand silhouette on a banner to be hung in LaFortune. Proceeds go to AIDS Ouilt maintenance. 
(lcdlt DlztJl4yel t~f 


page 8 The Observer • NEWS 1 Thurday, February 5, 1998 

nothing in writing that requires us to have a Spirit

Spirit 
Week. Last year was the first one

continued from page 1 
and it was such a success we 

going to be great," Oravec decided to do it again." said. "The Century Center is a Sullivan hopes to officially add beautiful place for U1e formal. Spirit Week into the sched­
We expect it to be a sellout." uled calendar of events next Bridget Sullivan, president year to make it an annual tra­of HilA explained, "There is 
dition on campus. 

Millionaire convicted in murder of competitor 
Associa1cd Press 
STUAHT, Fla. 

The owner of a bus company was convicted of first-degree murder and kidnapping Wednesday for luring his long­time competitor from New .Jersey to Florida, killing him and dumping his body in the Atlantic Ocean. 
The jury deliberated more than four hours before return­ing a verdict against Alan Mackerley, 54, in the death of Frank Black. 
The jury returns Monday for the penalty phase. Mackerley faces a sentence of life in prison or death. 
The jury rejected the defense's contention that Black could have been killed by Maekerley's girlfriend, Lisa Costello. 
Defense attorney Jeff Weiner also had suggested that Black, 58, could havf~ died from a heart attack. lie has been miss­ing since February 1996 and his body has never been found. 
Prosecutors, contending that Costello, 34, lured Black to Florida so Mackerley could kill him, charged her with murder and kidnapping on Tuesday. She has been in custody since .June 1996 on contempt c-harges for refusing to talk to police. 
With Mackerlcy's trial just about over and Costello about to be released, the more seri-· ous charges were filed. Black's family said they never doubted the prosecution's version of what happened to the Andover, N.J., bus company owner, who flew from Newark, N.J., to West Palm Beach for business in February 1996 and was never heard from again. 
"There's not one shred of evi­dence that he died some other way," said Bob Fatovic, the boyfriend of one of Black's daughters, who has been act­ing as the family's spokesman. 
Weiner said he an.d Mackerley still believe "that the ease is one in which reasonable doubt was apparent through­out." 
"Maybe someday it will be rectified," he said. 
Mackerley, who owns Byram Bus Lines of Sussex County, N.J., and is a resident of this coastal city 40 miles north of West Palm Beach, used Costello to lure Black to Florida in 1996 with the prospect of a business deal, prosecutors eon­tended. 
They say ·Mackerley's intent was to kill Black. Mackerlcy and Black were longtime rivals in the business of contracting buses to school districts in New Jersey. They had started as friends: Mackerley introduced Black to his wife. 

Once upon 'A Midsummer's Night...' 
·senate 
continued from page 1 
The discussion of decreasing numbers of students living on campus, and co-residential living brought up another issue regard­ing quality of life at Notre Dame. "We need to provide something to do on campus for students who are under 21," said Zahm senator Brandon Williams. "That works in a lot with why people are moving off-campus." 
A solution discussed by the senators was creation of an all­ages facility, such as a dance club or a bar which would admit 18-year-olds but only serve alco­hol to those who are of age. 
"We need something different. There's no place to go on a Friday night to just sit and hang out," observed Siegfried senator Ross Kerr. 
One possible location men­tioned for this facility was the Hammes Bookstore, which will be vacated when the new book­store is completed. Hammes, which has a bowling alley in the basement, is tentatively slated for office space. However "it's the only place left in the center of campus with any new space," said Kerr. 
The idea of having an all-ages bar which only serves alcohol to 21-year-olds is more complicated than simply a dry club. "Notre Dame doesn't want to claim they have an on-campus bar," noted Farley senator Katie Harness. The Alumni/Senior Bar is official­ly off-campus. Also, getting a liquor license and granting access to minors involve a wide array of regulations regarding the facility's primary usc. 
"We can influence this if it's something we feel passionately about," Kerr said. "It will be very difficult to do, but we're going to get something together." 
In other Senate news: 
•The Residence Life Committee reported further details in their efforts to bring laundry service to six men's residence halls. Zahm, Stanford, Keenan and St. Edward's will have machines installed during next Christmas break. One hall will be done next winter, with one the summer after that, and the other two dur­ing the following breaks. 
Alumni and Dillon halls do not currently have spaee for laundry facilities, and so they must be renovated before any can be. 
Most Affordable Student Housing 

installed. These two dorms will be moved up to the head of the renovation wait list, immediately behind Morrissey !fall, which will be finished this summer. 
The Oversight committee pre­sentnd il'i 1998 Internal Review. and proposed a series of amend­ments to the Student Union Constitution. These proposals will deal with such issues as the review process for ofliccholdcrs, the proper duties of the Student Senate, and the role of various Student Union bodies. 
"We feel that this is, overall, a good proposal. It changes some of the structure of the Constitution and the govern­ment," said Oversight Committee chairman Matt Mamak. 
The Senate unanimously passed the Student Union Board spending review, whieh catego­rized the distribution of $1,300 in funding for the organization. 
Taking Applications for the '98,'99 School Year and May,August Summer Rentals. 
•Flexible lease plans 
;;r• 2 bloch rrorri campus '*:More info: 272..1441 
. . . 

Por Favor, Mantieneel Ambiente. Recicla el Observer! 
ATTENTION: Dale Bauer, Professor of English and recent Chair of the Women's Studies Program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, will give a lecture on Monday, February 9, at 7:00 in the Center for Continuing Education, Room 210-214, West Lounge. The title of her talk is "Indecent Proposals: Teaching's Public Image." Professor Bauer is the author of Edith Wharton's Brave New Politics (University of Wisconsin Press, 1994) and. Feminist !Jialogics: A Theory of Failed Community (SUNY Press, 1988). She is also the co-editor of Feminism, Bakhtin, and the Dialogic (SUNY Press, 
1991 ). 


DA 'TIL RADUATI N 
FRI. NIGHT AIS CLUB 
DOORS OPEN @ 9PM 

50/50 RAFFLE FREE FOOD GIVE~AWAYS TO FIRST 500 
1 

GRAVITY. Hltt 
STARTS PLAYING @ 10:30 

JUST ANOTHER REASON WHY YOU LOVE ... 
THE CLASS OF 1998 




Associated Press "I am not surprised, consider­
ing they have been incarcerat­
NEW YORK ed in a glass case in a foreign 
The British want Winnie the country for all these years." Pooh and his four friends to Pooh, Tigger, Kanga, come home. Eeyore and Piglet -lovingly 
A member of Parliament tattered and faded -could be 
says the original stuffed ani­in for another adventure ­mals on which A.A. Milne's and this one wouldn't be in beloved stories are based the Hundred-Acre Wood. "Oh should be taken from a dis­bother," Pooh might say of play case at the New York this tempest in a honey pot. Public Library and returned to Mrs. Dunwoody is asking England. "I saw them recently what plans Britain's culture 
and they look very unhappy secretary has to arrange for indeed," Labor Party legisla­the stuffed animals' repatria­tor Gwyneth Dunwoody said. tion after half a century. 
J'o(itos :Pizzeria Restaurant 
PHONE: 243-5385 
DINE IN • DELIVERY • DRIVE THRU 4615 GRAPE ROAD NEXT TO LONE STAR STEAKHOUSE 
Ir----------,

f" EVERYJDAY-j ?l(,()'}fZ),,'?f I 
1STUDEl"\IT SPECIAL1 1STUDENI'SlPECllALI 
I PIZZA SLICE: $1.25 I I LARGE HAND-TOSSED I I PIZZA: $6.95 I
I TOPPINGS: 25¢ : 
I TOPPINGS: 50¢ I
L(~o2~w~T~ :_o~~N_o!!L~ J I (GOOD WITH COUPON ONLY) I 
I 7U&S'DA1f r-----------,
I 1 1fi&'!Y1t&S'D/'11f I :sTUDENTSPECllAL: 
I§TUDENI' SlPECllAL:
I 25¢ HOT WINGS I 
:NY STYLE SICILIAN: 9.75 1
I ANY 6" SUB WITH FRIES & I 
1 ONE FREE TOPPING! 1
I SODA: $4.99 I L -~0~0!''~ ~U!,O!!,O!:!,.L"2. -J l _ !~D:':'~U,:o:,o:.L'1-J : 7~U7i?S'D/'1'1f : : SU?t'DA'?f : 1STLnDENI' SlPECl>\L1 
ISTUDENTSPECllALI 
I BUY ONE DISH AT REGULAR PRICE, I I CHICAGO STYLE ONE I I GET THE SECOND AT HALF PRICE! I I ALL PASTA SERVED WITH SALAD I 
: TOPPING PAN PIZZA : 
AND BREADSTICKS! 
I $9.75 I
L. __________ .J
I (GOOD WITH COUPON ONLY) I 
L -!:!022 :::::!_T~~p~ ~L.::2_ -.J 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Thursday, February 5, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Pr<ndergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor..... . ....... Heather Cocks Adverrising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Managcr .....................jennifer Broslow Sports Editor .................... : ............ Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark De: Boy Accent Editor...........................joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......... . ............ Katie Kroener 
The Observer is rhe mdepcndenr newspaper published by rhe srudenrs of <he University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. h docs not necessarily rdlcct the policies ofthe administration ofeither insrirution. The fi('\1/~ is reported as accurardy and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned edimrials represenr the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor. AssiS!ant Managing Editor. News Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Spom Editor. Accent Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Photo Editor. and Associate News Edimr. Commemaries, leners and lnsidc: Columns prel>C'Ill rhc views ofrhe authors, and nm neces­sarily those of The Observer. Vicwpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-S323 Systems 631-8839 Sporrs 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Accent/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 
• THE DOOLEY fiLES 
Through Service We Come to Grace 

On an October night at the clinic, I stayed past the hour of closing, daylight fading into the nighttime smog. I had been engrossed at my desk with an assortment of mundane preparations for the following day's business -for the eall to service is rarely given in grand gestures but in small, essential tasks­until I noticed flashing lights reflecting 

Ed McCool 
into the waiting room through the drawn blinds. 
Moving to look. there were six or seven police cars right in front of the clinic and the adjacent motorcycle clubhouse. Traffic on Chapin Street was blocked down to one lane, and an officer was solemnly directing traffic past. Two young men were bent up against the hood of a cruiser, one screaming repeat­edly, "You didn't find no dope on ME!" 
In the moments which followed, officers eirded the building and rifled through the dumpster. while several men were stuffed into the backseats of cop cars. Early comers to the nearby Bed Carpet Lounge peered with interest through their clouds of cigarette smoke, but the police paid no mind. After a mere three minutes the vehicles dispersed, and bleakness returned to the street. 
Behind the warm seclusion of glass I watched the drug bust and its resolution with a nonchalance that would seem ironic in retrospect. Five months earlier I had been blissfully within the envelope of Notre Dame, where I could sit in sociolo­gy class and consider social deviancy as an academic problem. With a classroom of two-dozen peers, our minds huddled around the topic, I could inspect its rami­fications as they existed in the proverbial bubble of classroom rhetoric. Now the tables were turned, and I was the one in the bubble: an observer still, but now from within, looking on as social deviancy ensued around me in all its unedited reality. 
As part of my continuing education I knew to expect a brush with crime, even violence, in accepting a year of service. But meeting those bedfellows in reality, I found, can have an impact sufficient to send the volunteer clamoring to re-enter the intellectual haven of student life. That, at the time, was my disposition. 
I studied social justice in college. I read about the law of the street, discussed the knife-and-gun club that assembles night­ly on the wrong side of the tracks, wracked my brain to formulate a better system than violence to govern the lives of people at social disadvantage. What I didn't learn was how to react when I found myself face-to-face with a corpore­al example. 
It happened on a slow day in October: I stepped into an exam room to encounter a man my own age, whose name was Jim. On request, Jim dropped his Levis to expose a bullet hole in his left thigh. While 1 set to dabbing the dried blood from his skin he told the story of an argu­ment the night before, and how it had ended rather routinely in gunfire. In his ordeal he had survived the latest in a rash of shootings and homicides which had been tallied to 10 in as many days. 
Outside in the hall, a veteran nurse shook her head with a frown. ''I've known that boy since diapers," she said. "What's he doing in here like this?" Her lament was idealistic but she knew the reality: he doesn't have anywhere else to go but back into the risky, self-perpetuat­ing world of poverty. 
Yet, this man, Jim, had a story. No matter how tough he appeared or how inarticulately he presented himself, in the moment of his visit to the clinic he want­ed to share part of his story. You see, neither I nor the doctor who was present solicited Jim for an explanation for his wound. Instead, he leapt at the opportu­nity to fill our ears with the confidentiali­ty of his recent trauma. He needed more than just a sterile dressing for his leg; he needed the healing power that comes from finding a person willing to listen. And as long as people remain with that basic need-a need so often left forsak­en -the risks of service seem justified. 
Justification, however, becomes diffi­cult when the violence hits closer to home than a brief medical encounter. Mere days before seeing Jim I had answered the phone to receive news that the sibling of one of our nurses had been shot. Suddenly, a colleague and friend was seized by the pain of loss, and ambiva­
'J became overwhelmed 
with the gruesome real­
ity of my own mortality ... 
Fortunately such anxiety 
cannot survive for long for 
faith has an uncanny 
resilience.' 
lence returned to haunt the mind of this volunteer. What was my business in this neighborhood? Couldn't I do just as much good in a safer location? 
Later that evening, while purging my emotions in a journal entry, I felt numb, like Novocain had been injected straight into my chest. Sitting in my car and writ­ing furiously, I was practically quaking, trembling, and it had worsened. Before there had been the boredom, the contem­plative, almost respectful lull of Thursday afternoon at the clinic. As I wrote, though, I became overwhelmed with the gruesome reality of my own mortality. 

• DOONESBURY 
I KNWA LOTCF >W.R. 50-CAL.LEJ/ FRJ&N/?5 AR& STARTING 70 A8ANI?ON ~ 
8UTI IUANTW Y{}(J 70KNOIU 
lHATIM NOT CW& OP7J.I/3M... 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

I lXJNI CARe IF YOU POHAV/3 
70 !?&SIGN FOR. 7Hcf3CXXJOF 
lHc COUNTRY, IUBe7H£3R& FOR YOU. 
\y 
Some thug, I convinced myself, could have come to my window, right then, and ended my life with a bullet. It was a fear as rare for a Notre Dame student-at­heart as it was common for a ghetto­dweller. 
Fortunately, such anxiety cannot sur­vive for long, for faith has an uncanny resiliency. Dr. Tom Dooley, living and working in a Laotian border town in the 1950s, accepted the perpetual threat of VietCong invaders with the faith that his call to service was transcendent of all perceived peril. Forget disease. Forget the VietCong. Forget the nuances of a culture which, in 12 years, he would only begin to understand. God had issued him the challenge of servicn, and there the buck stopped. Whether for an hour, a year or a lifetime, Dr. Dooley proved that in service one considers only the needs of the needy, and fear is not an option. 
This afternoon the police surprised two men in a car parked by the clinic, a sta­tion wagon with tinted windows. A news camera documentnd the arrests and the cops' departure, leaving the nefarious vehicle abandoned on the curb. Unlike my reactions to the similar event I wit­nessed those months ago, I now feel no ambivalence about my decision to serve on the West Side. As the sign says, "But for the Grace of God, there go 1." As Christians we should believe that we are always in the care of God, but never so much as when we are called to serve. "Peace be within thy walls, and in thy palaces, peace"-Psalm 122. 
Ed McCoul is the 1997-98 recipient of the Tom Dooley Service Award. 1/e is a graduate ofthe College ofScience. class of'97, and currently resides in South Bend. His column appears every other Thursday. He can be reached by e-mail at emccoul@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"odd things animals. 
All dogs look up to 
you. All cats look down to 
you. Only a pig looks at you 
as an equal." 
-Winston Churchill 

VIEWPOINT
Thursday, February 5, 1998 
• lETTER TO THE fDITOH • RIGHT ANO WRONG 
Clinton's Private Life Is Public Domain 
n Dan Cichalski's Guest 
Column "Keep Clinton Affair 
Behind Closed Doors" in the 
February 2 Observer, Cichalski makes several points about the sex scandal surrounding President Clinton. On the whole, it is an interesting opinion, but I believe he is taking the wrong stance. 
This is why: As president of the United States, Clinton is the · leader of our nation. He is also subordinate to the will of the people. In commonplace terms, the people arc his boss. We, as citizens of this country,-have a right to know about the actions of the president and if those actions make him liable to be removed from office. Although I think the whole thing has been blown out of proportion, to say that it should be "kept behind closed doors" is to deny the American people their right to keep tabs on the president, not to mention excuse him of any wrongdoing. 
Clinton should have known that the actions in his private life could and would become known to the public ever since his initial campaign in 1992 when his at­the-time alleged affair with Gennifer Flowers made front­page news on more than just "The National Enquirer." Furthermore, sexual misconduct by sportscasters Marv Albert and Frank Gifford have, directly or indirectly, cost them their jobs. We, as Clinton's boss, must hold him to at least the same stan­dards that NBC and ABC hold to Albert and Gifford, respectively. 
Cichalski also makes the claim that since Clinton has been such a good president, we should excuse him from any problems his private life might create for him. Not only is this a danger­ous thought, it is outrageously stupid to find anyone exculpable from wrong-doings based on the fact that he or she has done a good job. 
In addition, to even say that "Clinton has been a good presi­dent" points to a lack of common sense. Cichalski has given the president credit for the balanced budget, the economy's strength, the lower deficit, and the smaller government, when, in actuality, Clinton deserves credit for none of those things. It was Congress, specifically the Republican-con­trolled Congress, that cut spend­ing, thereby shrinking the size of government, lowering the deficit and balancing the budget. It was not Clinton, but rather the American people and FED chair­man Alan Greenspan that brought the zooming economy. 
In "Keep Clinton Affair Behind Closed Doors," Dan Cichalski correctly pointed out that the scandal has been blown entirely out of whack. Unfortunately, that is the only accurate worth­while point he made. 
Mike Marchand Freshman, Holy Cross February 3, 1998 

Look to King's Understanding of Law-s 
We have seen again this year that, three decades after his death, Martin Luther King's birthday has taken on a life of its own, abstracted from the re~lities of his life_ and h~s. statement~ on issues. Dr. King's authority is clmmed for opposite positiOns on vanous matters. On one question, howev­er, Dr. King's own written position is notably clear but relevant today. That is the question of the moral limits of the human law and the moral obliga­tion to obey that law. 
In his Letter from Birmingham Jail, Dr. King said: "One has not only a legal but a moral responsibility to obey just laws. Conversely, one has a moral responsibility to disobey unjust laws. I would agree with St. Augustine that, 'an unjust law is no law at all' ... An unjust law is a code that is out of harmony with the moral law. To put it in the terms of St. Thomas Aquinas: An unjust law is a human law that is not rooted in eternal law and natural law. Any law that uplifts human personality is just. Any law that degrades human personality is unjust. All segregation statutes are unjust ... 
======::::========= [A]n individual who breaks a law 
•n•.• 
that conscience tells him is unjust, and who willingly accepts the penalty ... in order to arouse
Charles 

the conscience of the community over its injustice, is in reality expressing the highest respect for law." On the contrary, how­
Rice 

ever, as Aquinas makes clear, a willingness to accept the penalty 
------=-=======:....____ 
is not an automatic justifir.ation for breaking even an unjust law. If human laws are just, they bind in conscience. But, as Aquinas said, if a human law 'deflects from the law of nature,' it is unjust 'and is not longer a law but a perversion of law.' As Dr. King accurately said, 'everything Adolf Hitler did in Germany was 'legal' ... It was 'illegal' to aid and comfort a Jew in Hitler's Germany." ~t. Thomas explains that a law may be unjust in two ways: ~[F]irst, by 
bemg contrary to human good ... either in respect of the end, as when an 
authority imposes on his subjects burdensome laws, conducive not to the 
common good ...; or in respect of the author, as when a man makes a law 
that goes beyond the power committed to him; or in respect of the form, as when burdens are imposed unequally on the community ... The like are acts of violence rather than laws; because ...a law that is not just, seems to be no law at all. Wherefore such laws do not bind in conscience, except per­haps in order to avoid scandal or disturbance, for which cause a man should even yi~l~ his right ... Secondly, laws may be unjust through being opposed to the diVIne good; such are the laws of tyrants inducing to idolatry, or to anything else contrary to the divine law; and laws of this kind must nowise be observed, because ... we ought to obey God rather than men." 
Dr. King cites Aquinas, who would agree that one has an obligation to dis­obey a law that would compel one to violate the divine law. If a physician were ordered to perform an abortion, Aquinas' concept of the law which is unjust as contrary to divine good would require that physician to disobey at all cost. However, where a law does not compel a person himself to violate the divin~ ~aw but rather is unjust because it is 'contrary to human good' because It IS beyond the authority of the lawgiver, is oppressive, or imposes burdens 'unequally,' Aquinas would say that such a law might still 'bind in conscience' where disobedience would create a greater evil of 'scandal or disturbance.' There can be a moral right, therefore, to disobey an unjustly discriminatory law if such disobedience would not create a greater evil. If disobedience would create a greater evil, our duty instead would be to expose the injustice and work to change the law. Only if such a law compels the individual himself to violate the divine law would Aquinas say that there is an absolute obligation to disobey it. Income tax laws, for example, are unjust in significant respects. Yet there is no moral right to refuse to pay taxes, because the general assertion of such a right would create a greater evil. And the misuse of tax funds by the government does not make the pay­ment of taxes such a proximate material cooperation in evil that the pay­ment of taxes would be itself a violation by the taxpayer of divine law so as to mandate disobedience. 
"[T]he question,'' said Dr. King, "is not whether we will be extremist, but what kind of extremists we will be. Will we be extremists for hate or for love? Will we be extremists for the preservation of injustice or for the ext~n~ion ofjustic~?': Dr. Kin_g notes that: "Small in number [the early Chnst1ans] were big m commitment ... By their effort and example they brought an end to such ancient evils as infanticide." Dr. King's affirmation of the moral limits of law is relevant to our legalized version of the Roman infanticide. "I beg of you," wrote Rev. Paul Chaim Schenck, "read [Dr. King's] 'Letter' and substitute the appropriate terms; 'civil Rights Marchers' in this case, are 'pro-lifers' who are representing the voiceless unborn, the lunch counters are abortion clinics and hospitals that routinely snuff out the nascent, pure life of the womb and regularly leave children, accidentally born alive, to die. 'Nigger' is 'fetus,' 'tissue,' 'pregnancy,' 'product.' 'Segregation' is Roe v. Wade-robbing the pre-born of personhood." Unfortunately, we tend to overlook the character of legalized abortion as a deprivation of human rights. Dr. King reminds us that "people of ill will h~ve used time much more effectively than have the people of goo_d will. We will have to repent in this generation not merely for the hateful words and action_s of the bad people, but for the appalling silence of the good people." 
In his_1965 address to the New York Bar, Dr. King said, "wherever unjust laws exist people on the basis of conscience have a right to disobey those laws." Dr. King's position that the individual has an unqualified right to dis­obey every unjust law would work against the common good. There can be no general right to pick and choose what laws we will obey. Nevertheless, Dr. King's essential affirmation that a human law is unjust if it is "out of harmony with the moral law" is a needed reminder of the reality that the State is not God. Reflection on that reality ought to be the main focus each year of the King birthday and also of the anniversary three days later, of Roe v. Wade. 
~rof Rice is on the Law School faculty. His column appears every other Fnday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
to di.Scqss the recent ·. ~ofl':campus establish­. «fewofthepriVileged to r·¢()(!iyeicit;atilms Friday nig}it. The local , ••ll<lt!.'~:l.I4J:>: . to offer its perspec-. 
-~----------~ 

~---~-~--~ ~---­
--------------------~-------------~-­
page 12 
Thursday, February 5, 1998 
robert miles 

23om 

F
ollowing his smash hit "Children" and his big­selling first album, Dreamland, Robert Miles returns to the fray once more with a work which, while not quite as illustrious as its pre­decessor, nevertheless holds up well. An attractive mixture of ambient influences combined with bor­rowings from rock, soul and other genres, 23am is a record which presents the listener with a variety of changing soundscapes, most of them lush and multi­textured. 
The best expressions of this are probably "IIeatwave," an instrumental piece with an electric guitar adding emphasis, and "Maresias," a slower, more ponderous track that gains momentum and gradually paints a pleasing, mellow picture. In a sim­ilar vein is the first offering, "Introducing," which is the closest the album comes to being purely ambient, and it is perfectly complemented by the final seg­ment, "Leaving Behind" which tinkers along pleas­
. antly and rounds things off nicely. In between these two tracks are a couple of less impressive efforts, most notably "Freedom" (guesL, starring vocalist Kathy Sledge of Sister Sledge fame), which opens with the somewhat cliched line "All my life I have searched for clues" and does not get any 
****stars 
out of five 
better, and the overlong "Everyday Life," which con­tains similar banal statements. In terms of thHse songs, "Full Moon" is far superior, a more worthy piece of songwriting with a solid bassline and a good package of effects which cohere well with the smooth vocals. 
Overall this is a good album; it will attract a variety of listeners who are used to hearing different types of music, and within it most will probably find some­thing admirable. The faults are there for all to see, the generally uninspired lyrics chief amongst them, but if these can be overcome then what remains is an enjoyable and relaxing way to enter into the spirit of Miles' music, and of others like him. 
by Julian Elliott 
****stars 
out of five

variOUS artists Hound Dog Taylor: A Tribute 
the album come at the beginning and not surprisingly from two of the biggest stars. The late, great Luther Allison, another vastly unappreciated blues musician who acquired a following only shortly before his death, tears into the rousing, "Give Me Back My Wig." His speedy guitar and urgent, pleading vocals set a high tone for the rest of the album. Son Seals bleeds and sweats soul from every pore in his rendi­tion of "Sadie." The intense, heartbroken wail of his vocal, interspersed with biting guitar licks and the expert ivory work of Tony Z. make this track the bnst on the album. 
Sonny Landreth, the legendary slide guitarist sHts his expert technique to the task of making "Taylor's Rock" into a quick, concise blues song full of quick slide stops and bends. lie succedes in brilliant fash­ion creating a tone that makes the listener l'orget that there are actually no vocals on the track. 
The rest of the album is a downhill trip, but it is not a very far drop. From slide guru Warren Haynes, who, until recently had a solid gig with the Allman Brothers Band playing the parts immortaliznd by founder Duane Allman, to the "Delaware Destroyer" himself, George Thorogood, this album is chock full of great blues and rock. It is the kind of album that you can put in the CD player, hit repn.at and just lis­ten to for hours without getting bored. 
by Matt Loughran 


T
he beauty of the music that is called "blues" is the constant ability to reinvent itself. Any number of musicians can play the same song, and each tune will have a different take and feel. This phenomenon shows itself in the propensity of blues musicians to make tribute albums that some­times eclipse the recorded work of the performer to whom the tribute is given. 
More than 26 years ago, a 53-year-old, relatively unknown, Chicago blues club performer named Theodore Roosevelt "Hound Dog" Taylor recorded Alligator Records' first album ever, Hound Dog Taylor and the HouseHockers. The res•ulting work showed a raw power and emotion that exemplified all that was good with Chicago electric blues. 
In Hound Dog's four-year recording career, which ended prematurely in 1975 because of lung cancer, he set down only enough material for four albums. The last of these albums, Genuine Houserockin' Music was released in 1982 by Alligator Records. But now Alligator has released a tribute album which takes two of the best blues guitarists in the Alligator stable and joins them with an all-star cast musicians who were influenced by or friends with Hound Dog. The album is a solid blues and rock album which could easily serve as an introduction to Hound Dog's music as well as his way of playing. 
The song "Let's Get Funky," performed by Elvin Bishop, who used to play as a member of the 1-louseRockers, gives insight into Hound Dog's loud, improvisational style and his laid back, party attitude towards playing in blues clubs. The two best songs on 
upcomin Aerosmith ALAN JACKSON/DEANNA CARTER Otis Rush Mighty Blue Kings Ben Folds Five Sil verchair Jimmy Buffett Blessed Union of Souls Willie Nelson Primus/Blink 182 The Crystal Method The Chieftains Matchbox 20 Counting Crows Govt Mule Megadeth Blur Jars Of Clay/Plumb Ben Harper  Feb. 10 FEB. 13 Feb. 13 Feb. 14 Feb. 15 Feb. 16 Feb. 16 Feb. 17 Feb.23 Feb.27 Feb.28 March 1 March 8 March 10-11 March 12 March 13 March 15 March 21 March 23  The Palace (Auburn Hills) JOYCE CENTER ARENA Buddy Guy's Legends (Chicago) Citi Lounge (Toledo) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Vic Theatre (Chicago) The Palace (Auburn Hills) House of Blues (Chicago) House of Blues (Chicago) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) House Of Blues (Chicago) Clowes Memorial Hall (Indianapolis) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Vogue Theatre (Indianapolis) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Riviera (Chicago) Pepsi Coliseum (Indianapolis) Vogue Theatre (Indianapolis)  

------~------~----~-~-----~­




Battle is set for next year at quarterback 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
With the graduation of quarterback Ron Powlus, the Notre Dame football team has been left with a very inter­
esting vacancy. 
Returning at quarterback will be senior Jarious Jackson, who saw limited playing time in the 1997 season, and sophomore Zak Kustok who did not 

play, but is highly-Battle touted by the coach­ing staff as an option quarterback. 
Now comes the battle. Arnaz Battle, that is. 
The Shreveport, La., native signed a letter of intent yesterday, making him the highest-ranked player (according to the ESPN top 100 list) to sign with the Irish, and the first big-time quar­terback recruit in years. 
Battle will be thrown directly into the fire next year as a freshman because the Irish are looking for someone to step up and fill Powlus' shoes. 
However, it appears that the 6-foot­1, 185-pound Battle is prepared to withstand the heat of competition. 
Although Battle's numbers are not typical of an all-American quarter­back, his ability has not gone unrecog­nized or unrewarded. The USA Today 

The Observer/Brandon Candura 
Although Bob Davie endured a disappointing first year at the helm of the Irish, his 
first full season in charge of recruiting brought him the nation's third-best class. 
Irish land best class since '95 
By BRIAN REINTHALER back Arnaz Battle), the Associated Assistant Sports Editor Press listed four new Darners in its cream of the crop. All tolled, Davie 
For certain college football coach­and recruiting coordinator Bob es, yesterday was one of the greatest Chmiel landed four first-or second­days of their lives. For others, it was team USA Today All-Americans, 10 a disaster. One way or the other, honorable mentions and Ohio's 1997 though, a strong breeze could be felt Mr. Football, Tony Fisher. across the nation as coaches from Fisher is one of four high school Beverly Hills to Baton Rouge running backs in the fold for Notre breathed a sigh of relief. Dame. Fullbacks Mike McNair and 
The ink may still be wet on quite a Tom Lopienski are both rated among few letters of intent, but the recruit­the top five at their postion by almost ing season is officially over and Irish every recruiting analyst in the nation. fans have plenty to be happy about. Tailback Terrance Howard cracked 
In his first full season of recruiting ESPN's Top 100 at No. 78. his own players, Notre Dame head 

see 2002 I page 4
coach Bob Davie honorable mention all-American pick completed 34 out 76 passes his senior year for 527 yards and five touch­downs. 
What is outstanding about his ability are the yards he picked up on the ground. Battle rushed 107 times for 677 yards and 11 touchdowns last year, and that was on a team that lost 23 seniors to graduation. 
Battle's junior and sophomore year statistics are what made him sought­after as one of the top potential quar­terbacks in the nation. He passed for 848 yards and 10 touchdowns and rushed for 1,085 yards and 17 touch­downs as a junior. He also was responsible for more than 1, 700 yards and 27 touchdowns as a sophomore. He led Byrd High School to a 27-5 record over three years with two dis­trict championships. 
The bottom line is that he is an ath­letic quarterback whose versatility makes him an all-around threat. Battle has been compared to the likes of former Irish quarterback Kevin McDougal, who nearly led Notre Dame to a national championship in 1993. 
"I see myself as a quarterback who can respond to whatever the defense gives him," Battle said. ''I'm a multi­ple quarterback and I'm comfortable with anything." 
Whether or not Battle is comfortable with competing for the starting spot remains to be seen, but he is definite­ly considered part of the competition. 


received signed commitments from 21 high school stars, 


Darne
including 11 of ESPN's Top 100 

prospects. No ....
._.__..IB···~u 
other school was Jordan Black OL Rowlett, TX able to corral 
·---fllllllliJ!Jllli'~ll.ill'l~~ Qrtf!lna:· PH A
more than eight of these elite players. John Day-Owens TE Bowie, MD In fact, recruting 
:,os Ha~g. LA
analyst Tom 

Tony Fisher RB Euclid, OH
Lemming believes that the Irish class ••rtlllll'il;·ltra .! :WR Humble, TX 
of 2002 is the 

Tyreo Harrison LB Sulphur Springs, TX
third best in the nation behind 

IIIIIIIIRfi!Jilifi~BWIIIIngboro, NJ 
Michigan and 

Javin Hunter WR Orchard Lake, Ml
UCLA. "This is the kind 1•1111111t811'1~1:<!11!~1.~ QaltJ•; 'li'II ; 
of class they were 

Tom Lopienski FB Hudson, OH
getting in the late '80s," commented Lemming. "If they 


FB Corona del Mar, CA 
can bring a class 

like this every !Ji!.I11!,{1~:(!ti.J!JK/P GrangQr, IN year, they'll be right up with the elite teams again." Although ESPN ranked only one of Notre Dame's incoming fresh­OL men in its top 25 
NY 
(option quarter-
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 
If Carlos Pierre-Antoine has any­thing to say about it, he will be pen­ciled in as an asset to the Irish defen­sive balance sheet 
~-----~ next year. 
Dubbed "CPA" by those who follow recruiting, the 6­foot-2, 230-pound linebacker officially signed on the dotted line on Tuesday, giv­
ing the Irish their Pierre-Antoine 
highest rated recruit on the defensive side of the ball. 
Pierre-Antoine unofficially commit­ted to the Irish last Tuesday, picking Notre Dame over Stanford, Michigan, Colorado, and Washington. However, the suspense really came to an end a day earlier when he asked Michigan coach Lloyd Car not to make a home visit. 
"His family gave the process a lot of thought," said Monte Kohler, Pierre­Antoine's coach at O'Dea High School in Seattle. "Carlos did a lot of work. He came to the decision that (Notre 
'CPA' right on the money for Irish next fall 
Dame) is the best situation for him." 
Pierre-Antonie will come to Notre Dame on the heels of a spectacular high school career. During his senior season, he recorded a team-best 105 tackles while leading O'Dea to a 10-1 record and a berth in the Washington state playoff quarterfinals. 
"He's a good one. Carlos practices hard, works hard, and is a great com­petitor," said Kohler. "You want that kind of person on your team." 
The USA Today all-American attended the same high school as for­mer Irish linebacker Demetrius Dubose, who starred for Notre Dame from 1989-92. 
"Carlos is bigger and faster at this time than Demetrius was," Kohler said. "The best comparison between them is that they're just great people and great competitors." 
As his name might suggest, CPA excels in the classroom as well, scor­ing 1100 on the SAT to go along with a 3.4 grade point average. 
Considering how paper thin the Notre Dame linebacking corps is in terms of depth, CPA just might begin crunching bodies (not numbers) next fall. 

page 2 RECRUITING THE CLASS OF 2002 Thursday, February 5, 1998 
•

1e un 




Arnaz Battle 
QB.6-I, 196, 4.45 
Shreveport. LA ESPN ranks tile option QB 24th, and earned an elite G. 1 impact rat­ing by National Recruiting Association. Will likely give Action Jackson a run for his money when August comes around. 
d Givens 
· , 6-Q, 2 I 0. 4.4 Humble. TX 1e Bullet" did it I in l1igl1 school. 1)laying playing tl1ree different 'lions. To top 1at. l1e is consici­ered tl1e nation's . 1 skill atl1lete by Super Prep rnagazir1e. 
n Mahan 
OL, 6-3. 25 I , 
4.7 
Atl1leticism makes him a USA Today hon­orable mention all-American. Will lmve to develop chance witl1tl1in NO defensive line. 


1997-98 Prospects in Top 100 
rriaz Battle 8.. Carlos Pierre-Antoine 
78. Terrence Howard 
92. Anthony Weaver 

97. Clifford Jefferson 


Jordan Black 
OL, 6-5, 320, 5.4 Rowlett, TX PrepStar Dream Teamer whose sheer size make him a candidate for the tackle slot. It's always nice to have a "big ugly" from the Lone Star State. 
LB. 6-2, 224, 4.6 Sulpher Springs,TX Another fairly late edition to the class. Enjoyed a supurb senior season with 1 1 9 tackles witll 22 for loss and 1 1 QB sacks. 

Mike McNair 
FB. 6-0, 229,4.45 Corona del Mar,CA This guy is an absolute beast. !-lis size and speed turned recruiters on. and he was 
Rocky BoiiYlan 
DB, 6-3.212, 4.55 Okeana. OH considered by some analysts as one of llardest l1itting safties in t11e Midwest. Hocky was all over the field l1is ior year. tally­51 tackles d 6 picks. 
Terrance Howard 
RB, 6-0. I 86, 4.4 
Willingboro. NJ May see time at wide receiver or 
in secondary witl1 impressive 
10.9 speed in tile 
100. Another atll­
lete witl1 lots of speed for Davie and Co. to work 
with and try to on tl1e foot­1 field. 
vid Miller 
PKIP, 6-0. 180 Granger, IN Drilled two key field goals in Penn's run to 11e state cham­pionsllip. He will try to avoid the NO place kicker synclrom. Hopefully. it's 
Jeff Roehl 
OL. 6-4, 285, 5.3 Orland Park. IL A late signee for the Class of 2002 who also consid­ered Stanford and Northwestern. With tile gradua­tion of three a­line starters, Roehl helps solidify the deptll of the unit. 

~

-------~--~.---~--~-·---=---.,..._-~-~---~----------_......,..-_....,,________,____, 
Thursday, February 5, 1998 RECRUITING THE CLASS OF 2002 
3 
ass o 


TE, 6-3, 223, 4.7 Bowie, MD Started 3 years for well-known DeMatha's hoops with loads of athletic talent. Could possibly see time on the defense for the Irish. Last year he made and 8 

Gerald Morgan 
prospect in nation and a named to PrepStar '97 Team. His pounds of n mass will a good 
OL, 6-3, 250, 5.0 Mesquite, TX Starred as both a TE and DE in high scl1ool but is projected to land on tl1e Irish o-line. Yet another line­man from the Dallas area as Davie hopes the Texas well is 

Donald Dykes 
DB, 5-10, 181, 4.5 Hammod, LA Committed TUesday night as Davie managed to snatch this cover specialist from right underneath DiNardo's nose. His father played in the NFL. 


c. Pierre-Antione 
y Weaver 
DL. 6-3. 245, 4.6 Saratoga Springs,NY Played fullback and tight end as well as defensive end. Known for his explosiveness off the line of scrim­mage, he showed versatility his senior year as a 

LB. 6-2, 244,4.55 Everett. WA CPA is the defen­sive catch of tile class who hails from same high school as ND grad Demetrius DuB.ose. His coach has said that he is bigger and stronger than 
~~'-''-''../was at of 18. 
Tony Fisher 
RB, 6-1, 205, 4.5 Euclid. OH Ohio's Mr. Football verbally commit­ed to osu before his senior season but Davie again got another steal in this back from a state school t usually keeps tight. 
Tom Lopienski 
FB, 6-0, 238. 4.6 Hudson. OH Picked Notre Dame over OSU and Michigan: is considered one of tile top tl1ree in Ol1io. Father is a Golden Domer and his sister 
Roberts 
LB. 6-2. 224, 4.7 Lawnsdale. NJ Was considered a playmaker and a difference maker on defense at Memorial High. Also scored a I 280 on his SAT and carries a 
3.6 GPA. 

Preliminary Top 10 Recruiting Classes 
1. Michigan . UCLA . Notre Dame 
· . Georgia 
5. 
Florida State 

6. 
Florida 

7. 
Alabama 

8. 
Tennessee ­9 North Carolina 






--~-~-------=---~---­
RECRUITING THE CLASS OF 2002 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Davie rights the Irish ship with signing day 
T
he first step in the process has been impact in his freshman campaign. The completed. talented running back had a solid rook­
Bob Davie dosed the books on his ie year, certainly not a disappointing first ollicial recruiting class, and with a one. lop live recruiting 
The way recruiting analysts and fans class, it appears that alike talk about these kids who may still it has been more be looking for dates for their high successful than his school proms is sometimes foolish and 
first season. unfair. 

Notre Dame Recruiting guru Tom Lemming has appears to be on its commented that Notre Dame has never way back into the had an athlete like Mike McNair. top 10. =-..----::::--• Lemming probably makes such bold 
Dnspill~ the fact statements because that's how he that aii-IWI~rything Assistant Sports makes money and he simply is telling defensive lineman Editor the loyal Irish fans what they want to Dennis Johnson hear. chose K1mtucky over Notre Dame (for Although McNair's six foot, 239­sonw unknown reason), Davie still has pound frame and 4.4 speed may make sigrwd the best recruiting dass since fans drool. he is still 18 and comments 11J1J5. lie now has morn tools to build a like Lemming's are upsurd. McNair has winrwr. not yet played a down at the Division I 
But the pr<>CI~ss is a long one that we level, and Notre Oame has the proudest 
will havn to endure. We may even have tradition of producing football players 
to sull"!~r through another season and in the nation. 

not play on Jan. I. Of course, all these guys arc going to · 
It's true! sound like they will set the world on lire 
Although it's true we are at Notre once they step on campus and will put Damn and we know that we should be us right back on top, but the simple fact in the alliance year in and year out, is that we need to remain patient. the most highly mcruited Irish quarter­even the best programs have their val­When these kids come on campus back since Ron Powlus.
2002 

leys. next August they will have a lot of other Notre Dame's other USA Today i\11­Wn have a second year head coach, things on their mind than football. They continued from front Americans are first-team wide receiver and he is learning will be worried about finding those side .Iavin Hunter, first-team cornerback 
Quarterback Arnaz Battle will proba­rooms in DeBartolo, adjusting to din­Lopienski, the bigger of the two full­Clifford Jefferson and second-team line­bly not seize the starting slot and make ning hall food and living away from backs, stands 6-foot-3 and tips the backer Carlos Pierre-Antoine. the Irish immediate national champi­home. scales at 235 pounds. His father played Hunter hails from Detroit and saw onship contenders. Linnbacker Carlos Perhaps a handful of these line ath­in Notre Dame's defensive backfield time returning kieks and rushing the Pinrre-Antione will not jump into the letes will make an immediate impact in from 1972-75. MeNair, on the other ball in addition to his receiving duties. linnup and makn plays like he did in the 1998 season. Even though they hand, is certainly no shrimp at 6-foot-2, He runs a 4.4 and compiled 794 yards high school when he was the biggest might not be all-stars in 1998, most of 221 pounds, but the real kieker is his receiving for nine touchdowns in his and the strongest. them will be one day soon. 4.36 speed in the 40. The native of senior season. 
Current freshman Tony Driver came After a roller coaster 7-6 1997 sea­Santa Ana, Calif., rushed for 2,671 yards Jefferson and Pierre-Antoine are the in with perhaps higher accolades then son, the most important thing about and 33 touchdowns in his senior year premiere cards in Davie's defensive any ollensive player in the dass of yesterday is that Notre Dame is again alone. deck. Jefferson, a second eousin of 1997 2002, but he did not make a huge back on track to the top. Battle, a 6-foot-3, 185-pound signal­captain Allen Hossum, recorded six caller from Shreveport, La., was the only interceptions and 52 tackles during his quarterback signed by Davie this year. senior eampaign. Pierre-Antoine,
f He threw for 527 yards and five touch­referred to by recruiting analysts as downs, while also racking up 677 yards CPA, was also a Parade All-American and 11 scores on the ground. lias been and at G-foot-3, 230 pounds, his 4.55 clocked at 4.45 seconds in the 40 and is speed will intimidate many backs. 
Photo courtesy of South Band Tribune 
Fullback Mike McNair, shown here playing for Mater Dei, is one of 21 high school athletes who signed letters of intent to play for Notre Dame next year. 

.. 

Editor: Mike Day 
Associate Sports Editor: Betsy Baker Assistant Sports Editor: Joe Cavato, Kathleen Lopez, Brian Reinthaler Design: Mark DeBoy Special thanks to Dennis Moynihan and the Notre Dame football department

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
With the graduation of starting cornerbacks Allen Rossum (pictured) and Ivory Covington, the coaching staff pursued several blue chippers to fill their shoes. 
Report Card 
Quarterbacks: B+ 
Arnaz Battle appears to be the man Davie wanted in terms of a signal-caller, but it is likely that the Irish would have signed a second quarterback depending on the caliber of players that were inter­ested. Battle is the prototypical option quarterback with the added bonus of 6· foot-3 size. He could feasibly contend with Jackson and Kustok for the start­ing position· in the fall. 
Running Backs: A Although the need may not have been there, this backfield gives the Irish plen­
-ty of depth. Mike McNair and Tom Lopienski are big fullbacks that were highly-touted by most recruiting ana­lysts. Terrence Howard. a 6-foot-1 tail­back with 4.4 speed has terrific poten­tial and was rated the 78th best overall prospect In the country by ESPN. 
Receivers: A· Despite losing nationally renowned receiver David Terrell to Michigan, the need for a game-breaker may have been filled with the acquisition of USA Today second-team all-American Javin Hunter and Honorable Mention David Givens. John Day, a 6-foot-4, 230­pound tight end is more of a mystery and may end up on defense. 

Offensive linemen: B 
Ryan Scarolla, 6-foot-6, 315-pound tackle, was rated in the ESPN top 100. Gerald Morgan and Jordan Black are both Dallas area recruits. but they did not receive much national exposure. This was a need· for the Irish and depending on the development of the Texas players. it may have been filled. 
Defensive Unemen: C 
Despite the decent potential of Sean Mahan, a USA Today Honorable Mention, and Anthony Weaver, a 6-foot­4, 240-pmmder from Saratoga Springs, N.Y., disappointments were the story in 
.. ~~r-.; .·/~··jf).: 
this area of desperate need. Sean Phillips,· the 27th rated prospect on ESPN's list, committed to the Irish tem­porarily, but then changed his mind and decommitted. An even bigger disap­pointment, however, was the last­minute decision of Prep Star Magazine Defensive Player of the Year Dennis Johnson to stay at home and attend Kentucky. 
Unebackers: A-
The gem ofthenew linebacking corps is without adoubt CPA. CPA stands for Carlos-Pierre Antoinei. However, 'fYreo Harrison and Ryan Roberts; at 6-foot-3 and 6-foot-2, respectively round out the solid group ot'linebackers. 
'WK Defensive Backs: B+ 
Clifford Jefferson is a player who can make ari immediate impact in the sec­ondary for Notre Dame. Rocky Boiman will add some much needed size to the backfield at 6-foot-3. D()riald Dykes, 
::.~£ ...,. ,~~,.&J\~ =~···=~z<j>/.:Y:?W¥i· 
though not one the taller corners in the country, has decent speed at 4.5 and was recruited hard by LSU. 
Kicker: A-
David Miller, the local placekicker, was not widely recruited, but he dis­played the ability to kick in pressure sit­uations at Penn High School and has the ability to punt. This could allow Irish fans to rest easy with the graduation of Hunter Smith next year. 
Overall: 3.50 
Despite a few major disappointments, Davie's first true test as the sole recruiter for the Irish was a success. The incoming class is judged to be the third best in the nation, and without one or two of the setbacks mentioned above, it may have been the top in college foot­ball. The annual cry from Irish fans is always, "speed and size," and Davie's ability to bring in the best athletes is now apparent, 
.­

Thursday, February 5, 1998 
page 13 
***stars

Cot No Shadow 
out of five

mary lou lord 

Courtesy of Sony Records 
sting 

D
ie-hard indie rock fans may cringe at the thought of Mary Lou Lord becoming the next Sarah, Fiona, or Jewel. After all, Got No Shadow is not only her first full length album, but also her major label debut. Lord finds herself in a precarious position common to many artists breaking into the mainstream: the need to strike a balance between maintaining artistic integri­ty and selling records. Though her dolled up looks and slicker production techniques may lead one to believe that she has completely sold out, it would be a mistake to assume so. Fortunately for Lord, she somehow manages to cater to both longtime fans and the new ones she hopes to win over. 
The album starts off with the bouncy "His Lamest Flame," in which Lord playfully predicts the longevity" of an ex's new relationship: "His lamest flame will be!foo brief and burn too pale/And all attempts to fire it up again will faiVI run around behind his friends and play the waiting game." Here the group of supporting musicians complement Lord perfectly, without taking away from her essence. 
On "Lights Are Changing" and "Some Jingle Jangle Morning," however, Lord fans may feel a bit disap­pointed by the new polished versions. Previously released on EPs and 7 -inchs on the Kill Rock Stars label, these songs possessed a more stripped down sound and a raw, visceral aesthetic. 
Indeed, that is what made Lord popular with her fans in the first place: nakedly human music through an acoustic guitar and childlike voice. These were the only instruments she had when her career began by playing at a London subway, and later at the Harvard Square and Park Street Subway Station. And though some may be turned off by Lord being backed by a full band, they do not overshadow her. Nor has Lord changed her whimsical, folksy delivery of songs deal­ing with relationships, travel, and urban life. 
The other truth that remains, somewhat unfortu­nately for Lord, is that her finest moments usually occur when she is covering someone else's material. She gets a substantial amount of songwriting help from Nick Saloman of Bevis Frond. And though "The Lucky One" is one of the better songs on the album, it is written by Freedy Johnston. Moreover, she receives big time assistance from her musician friends: Shawn Colvin, the Beastie Boy's Money Mark, Jon Brion, Wil Goldsmith, Nels Cline, and the amaz­ing Elliott Smith. 
All of this makes one wonder how strong a per­former Lord would be without such support. Nevertheless, Lord's offering is charming enough to capture a few hearts. 
by Anthony Limjuco 

The Very Best of Sting & ****stars 
out of five
The Police 


O
ne of greatest frustrations of becoming a fan late or even aft-er the demise of a band is the inevitable problem of collecting the compendium of the band's music. Invariably, the greater the fondness for a band, the longer their list of albums run. The most obvious solution to this problem is to simply trek out to the bookstore, become a close friend of The Muse order­ing system, and charge 10 or so CDs to one's student account and tell the parents that "books turned out to cost a bit more than I had thought, really." However, there is an easier solution: a compilation album. While many of these albums seem only to have six songs worth any mentioning, the release of The Very Best of Sting and The Police manages to capture almost every song that a casual fan could want. 
The renewed interest in Sting's and the Police's music following Puff Daddy's remix of "Every Breath You Take" to ''I'll Be Missing You" has prompted the release of an album that contains what would be con­sidered to most listenable songs of the nine Police albums. The selection seems to cater directly to uninitiated fans of the band looking to pick up a few more songs.than "Roxanne." · 
The CD begins with "Message in a Bottle," from the Police's first album release Outlandos D'Amour in 1979, and ends with the "Roxanne '97" Puff Daddy Remix, which was made for this compilation. The song has been jazzed up for the 90s, and frankly ought to have been left alone. A slightly groovy base line, but no other redeeming qualities, typify this new song which only has Sting crooning the chorus in the background. The new version attempts to paint a portrait of Roxanne for the 90s, but would have been better suited to either begin anew or take another slant on the song like the more popular remix of ''I'll Be Missing You." Unfortunately, this is the only new song on the album. No previously unreleased or live performances were included on this album; that was only for the 1995 album entitled simply, The Police Live. Apparently, The Police (which never official dis­banded -they just avoid each other like, well, a bro­ken-up band} had no desire no attempt the selection of their best live performances. Since the last Police tour occurred about the time I was discovering the joys of GI Joe and He-man, I cannot make claims for the excellence of their life performances. 
Yet this CD is not without strong points, the most important being the inclusion of hits from Sting's solo career, such as "Fields of Gold" and"Ifl Ever Lose My Fciith in You." These songs, while not at all directly affiliated with The Police, are usually included with the favored songs of the entire band. Their sound is similar to The Police's since Sting was generally responsible for song writing until he left to pursue his solo career in the mid-80s. 
Die-hard original fans of The Police will be disap­pointed over what amounts to a nifty repackaging of old music, with only one new offering, which really doesn't amount to much. New fans ought to love the ease of hearing every favorite song of both Sting and The Police on one convenient album. 
.. 
by Dominic Caruso 

rr.;;;;;;;;
A;;;;;;;;;;;;~u;;;;lt~;;;;o;;;;~;;;;;;;;;cha;;;;·l;;;;\~;;;;~;;;;dN;;;;;;;;~u;;;;e~;;;;ta;;;;J;;;;~;;;;~~;;;;a;;;;:;;;;~;;;;:;;;;;;;;The LOWdOWn;;;;~;;;;h~~n;;;;~;;;;~;;;;es;;;;P;;;;In;;;;o;;;;:;;;;~l;;;;~m=s=P=~~i~~l~~=~=t~=.~=~=~d~a~~=~;;;! 
J-\..::ecently said he would like the band is also allowing the sta­to take some time off from Oasis in Philadelphia, Chicago, San Francisco, firmed act so far are the organizers of tion to sell video copies of the order to rejuvenate his creative flow, and Los Angeles. In addition, after the the festival, The Beastie Boys. concert. the band still intends to release a b-release of his next album in late spring, 
sides and rarities album at the end of the year. At the band's official website, fans can vote which of the 33 posted­songs will be among the 12 tracks on the album. Possible candidates for the album include such hard-to-find songs as "Alive," "My Sister Lover," the Rolling Stones' "Street Fighting Man," and The Beatles' "I Am The Walrus." 

ter being named Spin maga­
ine's Band of the Year, 
adiohcad has announced itsfirst 
U.S. and Canadian tour for 1998. The quintet will kick off a three-week tour on March 28 in Houston. A Chicago show has been confirmed for April 10, but a venue has yet to be announced. 
Manson plans to return to the road with a summer tour. 
S
inger Toni Braxton filed for Chapter 7 protection in U.S. Bankrupty Court in Los Angeles on Jan. 22, listing liabilities of more than 1 million dollars. 
T
he Stray Cats are planning to reunite onstage for the first time in four years to perform a tribute to one of their influences, the late Carl Perkins. The group will be playing some of its material, as well as some of Perkin's during a soldout show at the House of Blues in Los Angeles. All pro­ceeds from the performance will go to the Perkins Center for the Prevention of 
L
ast summer's biggest draw and most widely acclaimed tour, Sarah McLachlan's all-women Lilith fes­tival will begin in Portland, Ore., on June 19. Among those joining McLachlan will be former 10,000 Maniacs singer Natalie Merchant, the Indigo Girls, Erykah Badu, and Sinead O'Connor. 
A
ccording to a survey of British music fans, Leonard Cohen's Greatest Hits has been pro­claimed as the most depressing album of all time. Among other albums mak­ing the list are Pink Floyd with The Wall, The Cure with Disintegration, REM with Automatic For The People, and Nirvana with MTV Unplugged. 
C
onsidered one of the hardest 
working bands in the industry, the 
Foo Fighters are currently in negotiations to play the tentatively scheduled European Ozzfest later this year. The festival will once again fea­ture another Black Sabbath reunion. 
In other Foo news, rumors were cir­culating that bassist Nate Mendel was leaving the Foo in order to return to his previous band, Sunny Day Real Estate. The band, which broke up in 1994, recently reunited to record a new album. 
T
he Mighty Mighty Bosstones will be appearing on the 30th anniver­sary special of "Sesame Street" titled "Elmopalooza." The Bosstones 

n support of his autobiography, It's Child Abuse in Jackson, Tenn. will offer a performance of "The Zig 
A Long Hard Road Out Of Hell, The Rolling Stones have reportedly Zag Dance," which features frontman 
Marilyn Manson will begin a brief The third annual Tibetan Freedom given PBS the exclusive rights to Dicky Barrett dueting with the Count. 
book-signing tour on Valentine's Day at  Concert will take place this sum­ air the television premiere of their  
Tower Hecords in New York. Among  mer in Washington, D.C., over the  "Bridges to Babylon" tour during their  Compiled by Emmett Malloy  
other stops on the tour are Boston,  weekend of June 13-14. The only con­ fund-raising drive next month. The 90­ 

The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL • MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Wildcats get the best of LSU Canseco set to play 
Associat~d Pr~s 
BATON HOUGE, La. 

Wayne Turner's basket with 2::H to play was Kentucky's final points of the game but the eighth-ranked Wildcats held on for a 63-61 victory over LSU on Wednnsday night. 
Turner's field goal gave Kentucky (20-3, <J-1 Southnastern Conference) a 63­5h lead. Heggie Tucker made two free throws with 2:23 left to bring the Tigers (<J-11, 2-8) within five poinl'i. 
Maurice Carter's 3-pointnr with I :06 left brought LSU with­in 6:~-61 and the Tigers had a ehance at tying the game, but Carter's shot bounced off the rim as time expired. 
Kentucky, whieh reached the 20-victory plateau for the 43rd season, missed its final three shots from the field after Turner's final basket. 
LSU, which outshot Kentucky 45 percent-38 percent, has not beaten the Wildcats since 1992, a strcteh of seven games. 
The 63 points for Kentucky matched their lowest total of the season. The Wildcats beat Vanderbilt 63-61. 
Jeff Sheppard led 11 Kentucky scorers with 12 points, while Turner and Scott Padgett each had 11. 
Carter had 19 points for LSU, while Willie Anderson had 16. 
LSU, which shot only 36 per­cent in the first half, went on a 15-<J run to take a 29-23 half­time lead. Kentucky, which was averaging 4 7 percent from the linld going into the game, shot just :~2 percent in the first half. 
Kentucky turned up the defen­sive pressure in the second half, leaning into the Tigers, arms extended, hands reaching in, around and over. The affect was immediately noticeable. 
LSU scored only five points in the first live minutes of the sec­ond half and three of those were foul shots. 
No. 16 Michigan State 84, Ohio State 58 

.Jason Klein scored a career­high 25 points and No. 16 
north of the border 
designated hitter, Ash said. 
"Our need to start off the season will be for Jose to DII," Ash said. 
"While Carlos is out of the lineup, we'll experiment. Whtm Carlos comes back, we'll know what to do." 
Delgado led the Blue Jays with 30 homers last season. Cansec:o. who had a career­high 44 humors in 11)91 with Oakland, has hit 30 or more home runs six times in his 12­ynar carCl~r. 
lie would earn all his perfor­mance bonuses if he has 600 plate appearances. 
Limited to an average of <J<J games a season the past six years because of elbow and back problems, Canseco said he is confident he can "put up some interesting numbers" if he stays healthy. 
Toronto and Canseco's agent had been more than a week going back and forth on the performance bonuses. 
"Everybody loves each other now," his agent, Juan Iglesias, said. 
Canseco also had talked with Cleveland and DP-troit, but the Indians instead signed Geronimo Berroa. 
"Once Geronimo signed. it was clear Toronto wanted Jose and Jose wanted Toronto," Iglesias said. 


Associated Press 
TORONTO 
Jose Canseco, who has a his­tory of hitting long homers in the SkyDome, agreed Wednesday to a one-year con­tract with the Toronto Blue Jays. 
Canseco, 33, will get a base salary of about $750,000 and the chance to earn $2.25 mil­lion in performance bonuses. 
The injury-prone outfielder and designated hitter made $4,725,000 last season with Oakland, hitting 23 homers in 108 games. Canseco batted .235 with 74 HBis. 
"Jose is a presence," said Toronto general manager Gord Ash. "He is someone that other clubs fear. He makes our lineup a whole lot better." 
Toronto was last in the AL in 1997 with 654 runs and a .244 team average, and lost Joe Carter, who became a free agent and signed with Baltimore. Carter led the Blue Jays last season with 102 RBis. 
In addition, first baseman Carlos Delgado probably will miss the first two months of the season following arthro­scopic surgery on his right shoulder Jan. 19. 
In Delgado's absence, Canseco's initial role will be as 

Kentucky guard Wayne Turner's field goal with 2:37 to play gave the 
::~vr

Wildcats the edge they needed to defeat LSU. 

.,..• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL

Michigan State moved to its best Klein, a junior, had never Big Ten start ever with an 84-58 scored more than 17 points victory over Ohio State on before, but surpassed that 1:05 
,:'·Knoblauch to be traded 
...:::.:t{j:

Wednesday night. into the second half. 
Associated PreP

The first-place Spartans (16-4) He had 14 points as Michigan moved to 9-1 in the Big Ten, State built a 45-31 halftime lead, NEW YORKtheir best record through 10 then scored the first four points 
The New York Yankees

games since joining the confer-of the second half on two foul 
and Minnesota Twins

once in 1950-51. It was their shots and a 15-footjumper after 
neared agreement in trade

seventh straight win and 12th in he was intentionally fouled on a talks for Chuck Knoblauch,the last 13 games. fast break. 
and a person familiar withBy contrast, the loss was the Morris Peterson chipped in them said the deal could bo11th in a row for Ohio State (7-with 10 points for the Spartans. 

announced as early as

14, 0-8), Freshman Michael Redd, lead-Thursday.
extending the longest losing ing the Big Ten in scoring, 
The Twins will receive

streak in the school's 99 years topped Ohio State with 23 points pitcher Eric Milton, outfield­playing the sport. It was also the but was just 7 -of-17 from the 
er Brian Buchanan, short­

Buckeyes' 14th Big Ten loss in a field and 9-of-16 at the foul line. 
stop Cristian Guzman,

row. extending another school Ken Johnson added a career-
another prospect and $2

record. high 14 points. 
million to $3 million. 
While the MSG Network reported the deal had been complf:'ted, two sources familiar with the talks said small details remained to be worked out and that there still was a minute chance the trade could fall through. 
In Knoblauch, the Yankees would get a four-time All­Star and a top leadoff hitter. 
Knoblauch, 29. hit .291 last season with 117 runs, a career-high 62 steals, 10 triples, nine homers and 58 RBis. He also won his first Gold Glove award. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline for next·day clas­

.. Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  ALL SIZE HOMES  OPEN HOUSE  wishes come true. We'd like to get  now that equation is on its knee  
• Fishing industry. Excellent earn-NOTICES ings & benefits potential.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232·2595  Sun 2/8 11 am·2pm 610 E. Angela Blvd.  to know you. Call Shawn & Meg 800-767-4257.  before us. begging for mercy! note · I think that was the best one  
Male/Female. No experience nee­ 1 blk. from campus.  Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid.  yet, mech rules  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 essary. Ask us how! 517-324-3116  MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO  Immediate occupancy, 3 lrg. bdrms  
LaFortune Student Center ext. A55841  SHARE 2·BDRM HOME. INC.  w/extra large closets, hardwood  ...as the search continues for  mike kogge  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  WASHER/DRYER. PHONE,  floors, walk-in attic storage, 1 & 1/2  the perpetrator in the still·  read. and the force will be with you  
AND WEEKENDS!II Tutor needed to work with high  SATELITE TV.  baths, living room w/fireplace, for- unsolved death of FAT TONY,  
Man · Thur 7:30am · Midnight school student preparing forGED.  219-289-1357.  mal dining room, kitchen with kitch­ it appears that Seth Kaufman  colleen,  
Fri 7:30am -7:00pm Areas to review are govt, algebra,  enette, enclosed sun porch, full  may not be the only suspect.  aparently we have quite a few fol·  
Sat Noon · 6:00pm geometry, & writing. Prefer tutor to  NICE 3·4 BEDROOM HOME FOR  basement with rec room & wet bar.  Tony's son, UMPHREY'S  lowers. should we tell them your  
Sun Noon · Midnight come to house, but student can  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD  water softner, draperies & appl. inc.  McGEE, noticed a suspicious  real name?  
CALL 631·COPY drive to tutor. Call 272-8235.  AREA NORTH OF ND 2773097  Maintenance free exterior. Outdoor  character driving one of Fat  -don antonio  
gas grill, gas heat, CIA, recently  Tony's cars during the show at  
FOR RENT HEYII It's not too early to place a  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  redecorated.  some point last Thursday night. This man's identity has been  SKALCOHOLICS STOMPER BOB  
VALENTINE in the classified ads for your sweetie and/or a friend I  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097  TICKETS  confirmed as Adam Budney, of Niles. Fat Tony's wife, Shirley,  GRAVITY HILL TONIGHT 10 PMI  
House For Rent  had no comment at this  IRISH CONNECTION  
ILOST & FOUND I Two Blocks From Campus 4-5 Bedroom. Dishwasher. Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and  98'·99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar. sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer.  WANTED· ND vs MIAMI B-Ball tix on 2122. Lower arena. 258-1111  point, but rumors persist that action will be taken this Saturday night at the acclaimed  Attention All Off-Campus Juniors and Seniors Attending JPW '98  
Off Street Parking.  1628 Portage Av. 234-3831  BENCHWARMERS. where  You are invited to a luncheon at  
Lost Tl-85 calculator in Fitz Camp June 98 for Summer, August for  273-0482  Cheap Plane ticket for a woman  UMPHREY'S McGEE and Mr.  Alumni Senior Club on Saturday.  
Lab. PLEASE call 4x1067. Fall. FREE MONITORED SECURI- anywhere in U.S. Perfect for Spring  TAHINI, All SABA'S, that is, will  February 21, 1998 from 12:30 to  
TY SYSTEM!  Break.  reveal the truth. And the truth  2:00pm. Bring your parents and  
Call 289-4712  Available in Aug.  Cynthia 1-7424  will set ye free ... (except for  enjoy lunch with your friends!  
Wan led  3-4 Bedroom 2 Baths  Budney)  
Washer/Dryer, Furnished  WANTED:  WANTED -MIDSUMMER NIGHrS  
SUMMER CAMP EMPLOYMENT FURN. 1 BDRM APT., AIR, PAl·  Attached Garage 683-6591  2 Allen Jackson tickets 24 7 ·0737  I think that this may be the best  DREAM TICKET FOR TONIGHT's  

Northern MN coed camp seeks enthusiastic, fun and dedicated counselors who enjoy working with kids in the outdoors. Instructors  VATE KITCHEN, ENTRANCE, LAUNDRY, PHONE, UTILITIES INCLUDED $400/MO. ROOM $200/MO.  ROOM $128+util Share house w/ grad stu Good neighborhd 280­5274  PERSONAL  week yet of my short life. four words: irland,  PERFORMANCE. CALLLEANNE AT 4·0554 TO SELL.  
..  needed in Archery, Boardsailing, Camping Trips. Diving, Fencing, Riflery, Sailing. Swimming, Tennis. Waterskiing. Rep on UND campus at Lafortune today 1 0-3 Camp Foley 218·543·6161 or staff@campfoley.com or www.campfoley.com  272-0615. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR JPW AND OTHER ND·SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS · 5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658.  FOR SALE Beautiful Brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic Mattress set and frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $225 219·862-2082  ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni couple, with adopted 3 year old daughter, wants to shower new baby with love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic lawyer dad. and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset, trips to the zoo, grandma, play groups,  guiness. 1 week the pariah of pc has arrived please, no fan letters what holly looks like wraped in cylo­phane  LOOKING FOR MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM TICKET. ANY PERFORMANCE. CALL JEN, 4·3519 TO SELL. /j8 You grows up, you grows up, you grows up and you grows up!!  

lullabies, too. This is a home where 

Thursday, February 5, 1998 
•NBA 
Jazz rally tops Bulls 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY 

Karl Malone scored 30 points and John Stockton had 17 points and 18 assists as the Utah Jazz rallied to beat the Chicago Bulls 101-93 Wednesday night. 
Utah overcame a 24-point first-half deficit to become the first Western Conference team to sweep a season series with the Bulls in three years. 
Michael Jordan scored 40 points for the Bulls, but Scottie Pippen missed the final 18 min­utes of the game after he reag­gravated a pulled right ham­string. Dennis Bodman, averag­ing a league-leading 15.7 rebounds per game, was held to four. 
In Chicago's first trip to the Delta Center since the 1997 NBA Finals. the Jazz made just six field goals in the first quar­ter and were down 41-17 early in the second quarter. But the Jazz held the Bulls to 37 per­cont shooting in the middle quarters and hung on in the closing minutes for the victory. 
The Bulls finished their six­game Western road swing with a 4-2 record, while the Jazz beat Chicago for the third time in the last four regular-season games. It was the last game for both teams before the All-Star break. 
Sacramento 101, Denver 99 
Mitch Richmond scored 32 points. including four free throws in the final 12 seconds, as Sacramento ended a six­game road losing streak with a 101-99 victory over Denver on Wednesday night. 
Billy Owens added a career­high 27 points for the Kings, who won for only the third time in their last 10 games. Sacramento beat Denver for the fourth straight time and eighth time in their last 10 meetings. 
LaPhonso Ellis had 23 points and 13 rebounds for the Nuggets, who have lost 13 of their last 14 home games. 
Sacramento was 10-for-14 from the foul line in the fourth quarter after going 13-for-23 in the first three quarters. 
Minnesota 95, New York 88 
Stephon Marbury scored 29 points as the Minnesota Timberwolves defeated the New York Knicks 95-88 Wednesday night. 
Marbury, a New York native, added 10 assists as the Wolves snapped a three-game losing streak and handed the Knicks their fifth loss in six games. 
Allan Houston scored 20 points for the Knicks, and Charles Oakley grabbed 14 rebounds. 
Marbury had 11 points and four assists in the third quar­ter, when the Wolves led by as many as 14 points. 
New York closed to 80-71 heading into the fourth, but missed its first nine shots in the final period and the Wolves built a 90-75 lead with 5:50 to play. 
Houston scored eight points early as the Knicks took an 18­13 lead. But the Wolves answered with nine straight points, including five by Marbury, to go ahead 22-18. 


All ..'{ou..Can.."Eat 
Pizza & Pasta for 
$5.00 
~'\ 
~·~~ • 6:00 p.m.. 8:30 p.m. • 

...0 

AT & T SHOOTOUT 

Eastern Co renee Starters: Dikembe Mutom Shawn Kemp, C Grant Hill, Pisto Michael Jordan, Anfernee Harda 
Tim Hardaway, Reggie Miller, Glen Rice, H Steve Smith, Rik Smits, Antoine Walke Jayson Will 
Larry Bird, Pacers 
rn Conference 
ers: 
le O'Neal, Lakers one, Jazz arnett,Timberwolves 
Gary Payton, Sanies Kobe Bryant, Lakers 
aker, Sanies ncan, Spurs Jones, Lakers 
n Kidd, Suns Richmond, Kings Robinson, Spurs 
Van Exel, Lakers 
Coach: 
George Karl, Sanies 

ND Hockey Feb. 6 vs. BGsu & Sat. Feb. 7 vs. Fel.Li.s State Both Garnes 7 pm 
1\len's Swimming Sat. l ..eb 7th llam Rolfs Aqttatic Center 
Track: l ..eb. 6th-7th 1\leyo Invitational 6pm l"ri. & 10:30am Sat. Lofttts 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 1998 
.... 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Class of 2002 gets set to fight for a championship 
Associated Press 
Even in the nlcruiting wars, 

Michigan had to share the title 
for the top class of 1998. 
A month after settling for a co-national championship with Nebraska, the Wolverines got two votes for the No. 1 collec­tion of recruits, while a third recruiting guru went for UCLA, with Michigan a close second. 
"Give the nod to Michigan," Bobby Burton of Austin, Texas-based The National Hecruiting Advisor said Wednesday, the first day high school seniors were able to sign letters-of-intent. 
"I can't remember a team signing so many gifted offen­sive players in a single class. Michigan is the clear-cut win­ner, but UCLA had a great class, too." 
Coach Lloyd Carr took full advantage of his team's first national title in 50 years as the Wolverines signed six Parade high school All­Americans, including running back Justin Fargas of Encino, Calif.; quarterback Drew Henson of Brighton, Mich., and wide receivers Marquise Walker of Syracuse, N.Y., and David Terrell of Hichmond, Va. 
Fargas, 6-foot-1, 185 pounds, was the key to the class as Michigan won out over UCLA. Last season, Fargas had 2,818 yards and 35 touchdowns for Notre Dame High School, and he set career records with 668 car­ries for 6,352 yards and 77 TDs. 
"From top to bottom, Michigan has a great class. Of the 19 they signed, they've got lots of All-Americans," Tom Lemming of Schaumburg, lll.­based Prep Football Report, said. 
"We expect a number of these young men to come in and help, just like we had a number of freshmen play last year," Carr said, singling out receivers Walker and Terrell. 
Michigan's other Parade All­Americans were kicker Hayden Epstein of San Diego and defensive back Cato June of Washington, D.C. 
Burton and Lemming both went with UCLA second, while Allen Wallace of Laguna Beach, Calif.-based SuperPrep had it UCLA-Michigan. 
Wallace said the signing of running back DeShuan Foster, a 6-2, 200-pounder from Santa Ana, Calif., put the Bruins over the top. 
"lie is the back who can become the next Skip Hicks," said Wallace, who rated the Bruins' 1996 class 23rd. "UCLA also has the best defen­sive line prospects in the nation. It was extremely close with Michigan, but signing the big back was the key for 
ll<"!rlJ!lR!lj"lllllllJ!Ilflillliiii!mrll!~!!l!l!lilli!i!li"~'~' '01 !ll ~~""
li:' I 
BOOK SEARCH 
• Used, rare and out-of-print ~ 
01 
.. books ~~ . • Initial cost of $2.00 ~ • Nationally -circulated ad ~ 
• 
Success rate of 50% ~ 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS ~ ~ 
. fjj
0 pen noon to SIX Tuesday through Sunday ~ 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 fjj (219) 232-8444 
UCLA." Foster ran for 3,395 yards and 54 touchdowns in leading 
Tustin Iligh School to  a  13-1  
record.  
Among  the  Parade  All­ 

Americans who chose UCLA were defensive linemen Sean Phillips of Sugar Land, Texas; Mike Saffer of Tucson, Ariz., linebacker Robert Thomas of Imperial, Calif., and defensive back Lovell Houston of Denver. Thomas, 6-3, 230, was rated as the top line­backer by Burton and the No. 2 linebacker by Wallace. 
"UCLA probably had the most well-rounded class," Burton said. "They basically beat the pants off USC, which was one of the big disappoint­ments." 
As usual, Florida State coach Bobby Bowden made a late swing through the country and came away with an impressive class. 
Among the Seminoles' top signees were: wide receiver Talman Gardner of New Orleans; defensive back Chris Hope of Rock Hill. S.C.; quar­terback Jared Jones of Walla Walla, Wash.; and offensive lineman Brett Williams of Kissimmee, Fla. -all Parade All-Americans. 
Florida State also signed defensive lineman Kevin Emanuel of Waco, Texas. For nine months, Emanuel was set to attend Texas, but last week Bowden paid him a visit. 
"Man, he kind of made me feel at home in my own house," Emanuel said. 
In addition to UCLA's ascent, Georgia also made major strides under third-year coach Jim Donnan. A victory over Florida didn't hurt, either. 
The Bulldogs, rated 29th in '96 by Burton, were third this time, signing such top prospects as offensive lineman Jon Stinchcomb of Lilburn, Ga.; linebackers Boss Bailey of Folkston, Ga.; and Will Witherspoon of Panama City, Fla.; and quarterback Nate Hybl, Hazelhurst, Ga. 
"No team in the Southeast in the 1990s dominated its state the way Georgia did this year," Burton said. "Donnan has suc­ceeded in putting up a border around the state." 
Other Southeastern Conference schools on the top 10 lists of Burton, Lemming 


and Wallace 
were Alabama 
and Florida. 
LSU and 
Tennessee 
made two top­
10 lists, while 
t h e 
Cornhuskers 
made only one 
No. 10 by 
Burton. 
"Nebraska did not do as well as people thought," Lemming said, although the Huskers did better than USC, two major schools which made coaching changes this season. 
T h e changes were made so much smoother at Nebraska and it paid off in recruiting.:· Burton said. 
Other sur­prise teams included Pittsburgh and Purdue, both of which made it to bowl games this season, 
Photo courtesy of Michigan Sports Information 

with Auburn Leading Michigan to its first national title in 50 years, coach Lloyd Carr was able to use that rated among to his advantage, having one of the top recruiting classes in the nation. 
the disap­pointments. 
"! think Auburn had the worst class since Terry Bowden took ove.r," 
Wallace said. "Alabama dominated the state, signing seven of the top 11 prospects. Another went to Tennessee, leaving Auburn with three." 
Ronald Curry, a 6-3, 195­
pound quarterback from Hampton, Va., has yet to make a final decision. He had been leaning toward Virginia, but Florida State and North Carolina still appear to be in contention. 
Penn State just missed the top 10, while Texas was rated lOth by SuperPrep. 
Among Penn State's top 
recruits were Parade All-American linebackers Shamar Finney of Shelby, N.C., and tight end/linebacker R . .l. Luke of Aurora, Ill. The Lions also signed running back Eric McCoo of Little Silver, N . .J. 
Top Texas signees included wide receiver Montrell Flowers of Dallas and running back Victor Ike of Austin. 
~' 1\ssoc. 
§'~ ...<:· 
-< ------c"
~­
NOTRE DAME 
Grief Workshop: Loss and It's Possibilities Working through the Pain 
LOCATION: ALUMNI OFFICE, BROWNSON HALL (Behind Main Building-Through Courtyard) DATES: FEBRUARY 10-11, 1998 



THIS WORKSHOP WILL ADDRESS THE PARTICULAR CONCERNS OF THOSE SUFFERING THE LOSS OF A LOVED ONE AND THOSE WORKING THROUGH THE DIVORCE OF THEm PARENTS. 
"Summer had ended but without my mother. I worked up a little excitement for my first year at Notre Dame-but her death was too recent. I cried in my pillow and then my roommate lost patience with me. I began medicating with 
alcohol. It was disastrous. In February, I made the GRIEF WORKSHOP, found other Darners who were hurting, and the healing began. " 
Jan, N.D. '95 
Facilitator: Pat Reynolds is a St. Mary's alumna who has worked with the Alumni Association's Grief Workshop for ten years. 
For further information, or to let us know you are attending, call: Mirella Contreras '94 at 631-5940 or Scott Leaman '98 at 634-1942 
His support of!his 


Open to all Notre Dame and St. Mary's students. 

Thursday, February 5, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 


M. Soccer 
continued from page 24 
helped his squad to the Bicentennial League Championship and the school's best ever single-season record of 19-3-1. 
Hosso scored 27 goals and had 11 assists, giving him his second consecutive league most valuable player award. lie also had the honor of the Courier Times' Player of the Year. 
"Matt is a dynamic, explosive midfielder with a tremendous work ethic," Bcrticelli claimed. "Jiis play with FC Delco (his club team) has helped them become one of the· top teams nationally." 
The future is definitely bright for the men's soccer team. These three additions will bring many new talents to the table as the Irish await the 1998 campaign. 
Read The Observer. 
•OLYMPICS 
Associated Press 
NAGANO. started 
whl'mthe .. were and B Blair had yet t() win a Now,. Vllith Blair and n'1~f tWe',,!IIH
gold medals in . . . 
indoor ice the rule, he's to lead the U.S. team into h" fourth Olympics" . ··'···· 
Flaim, who turns 31 month, was selected to carry the Am:et'ican flag at the · of the U:S. delegationi opening ceremony o e Nagano Winter Games, on Saturda,y (Friday nightE 
The c:bolce was mad Thursday vote ofteam cap­tains of the U.S. squad, the largest at the O~ympip~ · •· some 240 athhltes, coil, and officials; Flaim is the fifth speedskater chosen as (J:S. 
flagbearer. . ... +••+ :r Now skating short tracit"'as a member of the men's 5,000· 

meter relay team, Fla.i:rn,.front ...,,,,,..,,~~'~.anncluqt~ed. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE SOCCER 
Three-team trade shakes up the MLS 
Associated Press 
FOXBORO, Mass. Two-time MLS champion 
D.C. United broke up its "Magic Triangle" on Thursday, send­ing Raul Diaz Arce to the New England Revolution in a three­way deal that also sent U.S. national team defender Alexi Lalas to the MetroStars. 
In one of the biggest deals in the league's two-year history, New York-New Jersey sent a second-round selection in next year's college draft and gave "future considerations" to Washington to complete the trade. D.C. United was forced to give up Diaz Arce, the league's second leading scorer, due to salary-cap restrictions. 
The 27-year-old Lalas, per­haps the most recognized American player around the world, is a two-time all-star. But he lost his regular defen­sive slot on the U.S. national team late in World Cup qualify­ing last fall and has been rele­gated to the bench. 
New England appeared to be the big winner in the deal, .acquiring the 
28-year-old Salvadoran international, who with Bolivians Marco Etcheverry and Jaime Moreno formed the league's most potent offense, nicknamed the "Magic Triangle." Moreno led the MLS in scoring last year with 16 goals; Diaz Arce had 15. 
Diaz Arce and D.C. United teammate Mario Gori last sea­son were accused of rape in Columbus, Ohio, following a game against the Crew. The charges were dropped earlier this year. 
Lalas, who has 91 caps for 
the U.S. national team, is the 
only American to have played 
in Italy's famed Serie A, stay­
ing two seasons in Padova 
before returning to the United 
States. 
"The opportunity to acquire someone with Alexi's extraor­dinary credentials doesn't come along every day, and I expect he will have a very posi­tive influence on our young players," said Charlie Stillitano, MetroStars vice president and general manag­er. 
fA1£S .w fiiO~< INOIAfW'OllS 
F.un.uELIIDI•n.IAV:DOIIARTP'.JIOIASI.UOOOOIIOfPKumt:T.UUVII<Illt CAA rout UlWUN S1 Mil liO. IIUf•OIIIIi 011 1111 onnMTlOII. I-'\ St\IOlll IP ouTIEIIOUIIIH. f.un Alii: vAUJRIII Dt,un.ts llll!!W'IlMOII-....: ~ 
~ ~CTTIIC-.Rtsn.I:TJJIIS.....,.f.(Au"llffatMI.OWDOow:STJ:Itoii(S""', 
!j'iftiii~:/ -: 
v=~;;~~-N:d 
' 


Thursday, February 5, 1998 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• OLYMPICS 
Jamaican bobsledders look for a cool running 
Associated Press Dudley Stokes, the captain of said team member Chris threatened by people who think have struggled for credibility that we're a joke," he said. from the very beginning. Much
the team. "It's all about fulfill­Stokes. "We don't see ourselves At the same time, the of the energy that went into the TOKYO ing serious goals in life, but as stars so (the attention) is Calgary Games was spent con­
"Lively up yourself! And don't having fun along the way." always surprising to us." Jamaicans know that recogni­
be no drag ... " Fun is part of what the self­The 1993 smash Hollywood tion -whatever form it takes vincing Olympic officials that Crooning off-key and swaying styled "Hottest Thing On Ice" is movie "Cool Runnings," based -attracts the sponsorship the Jamaica had a legitimate team. to a reggae beat Wednesday at all about, but team members on the first team's struggle to team needs to fund training These days, says Stokes, a Tokyo hotel, the world say they feel ambivalent about enter the Calgary Games, fur­and compete at a top level "We're very much an Olympic famous Jamaican bobsledders the enduring fascination they ther spread the legend of the internationally. nation" -meaning that the 
ice-men from Jamaica. "If we were just a solid bob­team can attract sponsors forshowed they were back in force inspire. 
sled nation without the the big show, but in non­

for their fourth crack at a A Jamaican bobsledding "Millions of people around Olympic years they're left in
medal in the Winter Olympics. squad has competed in every the world have seen the movie; romance of Jamaica, a tropical 
And though their singing Winter Olympics since the first far fewer people saw the island, coming out of the sand the lurch. wasn't as smooth as their high­team's sensational debut at the Jamaican team in and sun and into the snow and Stokes said a new coach and speed slides down icy tubes, 1988 Calgary Games, and Lillehammer," said team leader ice we wouldn't survive," said revised training regimen has their message came across members feel Jamaica has Stokes. "When people think of Stokes. made the Jamaican team much loud and clear. earned the right to be consid­Jamaican bobsled they think of "We'd be a broke bobsled improved from the 
"We needed an official song ered more than just a novelty. the film." team and out of the sport," he Lillehammer Olympics, in 
to express the spirit of the "We're just a group of guys "We're confident enough of said. which it placed a respectable Jamaican bobsledders," said who want to perform well," our achievements not to feel The Jamaican bobsledders 14th in the !'our-man event. 
• NHl 

Turek perfect in goal as Stars edge Flyers 1-0 
Associated Press It was the Flyers' fourth three of the last four games. Wednesday night, but the after a videotape review. 
straight loss, their longest losing "Every player wants to play all Lightning blew a two-goal lead The Hurricanes, avoiding 
DALlAS streak in almost four years. the time so it's been tough. In and had to settle for a 3-3 tie their fourth consecutive home 
Homan Turek was perfect. lie Dallas increased its point total Europe I played in every game with the Carolina Hurricanes. loss, also got a goal from had to be-with only one goal to 78, best in the league. so it's been hard to get used to Jeff O'Neill capped the Emerson. to work with. Turek, getting the start with this." Hurricanes' comeback by shov-The Hurricanes appeared to 
Dallas' backup goaltender Ed Belfour scratched due to a The Flyers opened a tough ing a rebound underneath Mark have momentum on their side stopped 26 shots for his first sore back, won for the eighth stretch of three road games in Fitzpatrick with 1:49 left in reg-after scoring to cut their delieit career shutout and Pat Verbek time this season to extend the four nights, falling to 4-12-4 ulation, dropping Tampa Bay to to 2-1 and going on a power scored a power-play goal as the Flyers' longest losing streak against teams that are .500 or 0-13-2 in its last 15 games. play early in the second period. Stars beat the Philadelphia since March 26-31, 1994. better. As the third period wound But Renberg and Bryan Flyers 1-0 Wednesday night in a The shutout was the eighth for Hextall was beaten only once, down, Fitzpatrick kicked away Marchment skated into the battle of two of the NIIL's top the Stars this season to set a that on pinball goal, but he still Nelson Emerson's slap shot and Carolina zone and were met by teams. club record and the fifth at came away impressed by the several players converged in two defenders before Renberg 
"lie's just so hungry to play home, also a new franchise Stars. front of the crease to battle for blasted a 30-footer past Trevor that he doesn't care who it's mark. "They played a pretty good the loose puck. Fitzpatrick went Kidd from the left wing. against." Stars coach Ken Turek, a native of the Czech game," Hextall said. "They're down on the ice to try to smoth-Tampa Bay set the tone early Hitchcock said of the 27-year-Republic, started slowly this the best team in hockey right er the puck, but O'Neill slipped thanks to Peterson, who was old Turek, in his first full NHL season, but he has allowed no now. They proved that." it underneath him and into the called up from the minors on season."Tonight the goalie was more than one goal in six of his T 3 C r goal. Monday. Peterson beat Kidd
8 3

going to have to be one of the last seven games. ampa ay ' aroma Fitzpatrick jumped up and with a 40-footer less than three 
stars. lie's feeling confident "Getting the shutout is nice," Tampa Bay's dub-record 13-complained vehemently, but to minutes into the game for his about the way he's playing." said Turek, who has started game losing streak ended no avail. The goal was allowed second goal in as many contests. 
The Notre Dame College of Business Administration and the Department of Accounting 
Invite You to Attend 
The O'Brein-Smith Lecture Series 
Featuring: 

•
• 


• 



; 
"Financial Reporting: An Accounting Revolution­Twenty Years Later" 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 6, 1998 
10:00 AM JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
College of Business Administration 
Dr. Beaver is an award winning teacher whose krvice contributions to his profession include con·sultant to the Financial Accounting Standards Board, SEC Advisory Committee, trustee of the Financial Accounting Foundation, and extensive service on editorial review boards. He has been President of the American Accounting Association, three-time winner of the AAA-AICPA Outstanding Contribution to Accounting Literature A ward, AAA 's Distinguished International Visiting Lecturer, rcipient of the Outstanding 
Educ.,., AwaA"f'jcipia·r·em'"W'O'[C IJ"iii"8.
,.,. Award.
1 

...__----.------------------------------­
~·-­

-~--------~--~----~ 
-~----­

Thursday, February 5, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• MENS' TENNIS 
Three Irish represent team in Rolex championships 

By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writer 
Good-bye, Hoosier state. Howdy, Lone Star land. 
Three members of the Notre Dame's men's tennis team are saying just this as they head to the Rolex National Championship in Dallas, Texas. 
Ryan Sachire, Brian Patterson, and Jakub Pietrowski earned the right to compete Thursday through Sunday among the nation's top 32 collegiate tennis players. 
"Every top player in the country is there," coach Bob Bayliss explained. "There's no way you can just slide in. You have to earn it." 
Sixteen players, two from each of the eight regions. were chosen from the fall's Midwest Regional Rolex Championship. Another 16 were selected at large on the basis of rank and personal achievements. 
Doubles duo Patterson and Pietrowski, who went 17-5 last season, qualified in the preseason tournament with a win over Illinois. The renowned pair, although not known for their pizzazz on the courts. are nationally recognized for their ability to complement each other well. 
"We're not the flashiest team around," Pietrowski said of their style. "We stick to the basics and do just fine." 
This theory has proved effective in the past. Patterson and Pietrowski 

were nationally ranked all of last season, placing as high as 18 and finishing at 29. They also qualified last year for the NCAA doubles cham­pionship. 
Although the two have been unsuccessful so far this season (0-2), they hope to turn things around this weekend. Since the tourna­ment has no bearing on team ranking, the partners are planning to correct game flaws and improve their reputation. 
"I think it's an opportunity for Brian and I to get back to what got us [to the tourna­ment]," said 6-foot-2 senior Pietrowski. "We'll probably take more risks and work on some things during the matches." 
Sachire, however, poses a risk to his competitors. 
One look at the 6-foot-6 sophomore's resume, and there is probably no way he would be rejected in the at large category. 
Sachire, last season's Intercollegiate Tennis Association's regional rookie of the year, blasted onto the Irish courts and into the national scene. 
He played most of last sea­son at the number one posi­tion and qualified for the NCAA Championships in sin­gles. The Canfield, Ohio, native's powerful serve, more than 120 mph, and compact ground stroke has also led him to the finals of the ITA Rolex Regional IV Championship. 
During the season, Sachire was nationally ranked as high as 18 and finished at 

37. His impact showed in his 37-9 overall record and 14-4 record at the number one spot last season. 
This year, Sachire has proven he's the same power­house, losing only one of four matches so far. 
Despite his lengthy per­sonal accomplishments, Sachire is thrilled to make a statement on behalf of his team. 
"It's a pretty large privi­lege," Sachire said. "I want to do my best to represent the University of Notre Dame. If I give a good show­ing, I hope it will earn the team more respect." 
The Patterson-Pietrowski team share a similar philos­ophy. 
"We're there for ourselves but also to represent our school," Pietrowski said. "If we do well there, it will show that even if we lost some, we're still a sound team not to be taken lightly." 
The weight of their com­petitors at the Championship, one of four collegiate grand slam events, will also tip the scales. 
"You know you're going to play one of the top 32 play­ers in the country," Bayliss said. "There's no easy match." 
Easy or not, the Irish trio is not backing down. They hope to return from the sunny land of the Rio Grande with wins under their belts to the warm wel­come of their teammates back home. 


is now accepting applications for the 
1998-99 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Marys is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Heather Cocks by Monday, Feb. 9, at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reporting, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an abiliry to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sports reporting, writing and editing skills. The SportS Editor manages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-time undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout of advertisements. 
DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design/layout and newspaper production experience. The Design Manager oversees a staff of illustrators and graphic designers and works closely with department staff on lay­out/design of special sections and training employees in Quark. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operat­ing budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the site. 
·­
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 1998 
• MENS' BASKETBAll 
Irish need to prove their consistency with Knights 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Spom Edimr 
The Irish are in search of clue to solve a mystery which has remained elusive for the entire season. With a win over Hutgers tonight, Notre Dame might come a step closer to finding the key to consistency. 
It has been a see-saw season for the Irish. In December, the team won live straight and then followed those wins up with three straight losses. Since then Notre Dame has won four of the last six and embarked on its best start ever in the Big East conference. With a win over the Scarlet Knights, the Irish could go above .500·to 6-5. Currently the team is 11-7 overall. 
"Our focus is to control Geoff Billet and Hob Hodgson," Irish head coach John MacLeod said. 
"Secondly we are going to con­trol the ball and keep our P,oise. Hutgers has a great home court advantage and a great home crowd so that will be a major factor on their part." 
Hutgers is struggling in the Big East, having won only two games and dropping nine. The Knights are 8-11 overall. In the last meeting, the Irish walked away victorious at home, 91-76. 
Notre Dame hopes to build off its 73-65 upset victory over St. John's. They snapped the Red Storm's seven game win streak. Senior Pat Garrity contributed 23 points, eight rebounds, and four assists. His performance was accented by the play of sophomore Keith Friel and freshman Martin Ingelsby. 
A concern for the Irish is the loss of sophomore Friel. His performance against ~. John's 


aided the Irish tremendously 
with  his  16  
points,  four  
rebounds,  and  

three assists. He has had tremen­dous success in the past couple of wins. In that same contest, a thigh contusion forced him out of the game as well as sidelining him for · tonight's game against Rutgers. 
"He will not be back but travel," MacLeod said. "Hopefully he will be able to play in Saturday's game at Georgetown." 
With a little less than a month until the Big East tourna­ment, seeking consistency is one of the top concerns for the Irish. In order to become consistent, Notre Dame needs to work on its shooting percentage. In their wins. the Irish are strong, shooting 53.2 percent from the field and 46.7 percent from three-point range. In its seven losses, the team has shot a dis­mal 38.2 percent from the field and 21.2 percent from outside the arc. 
Besides the shooting problem, MacLeod feels that discipline is also key for the Irish. 
"We have to make sure that we control the ball and get some good shots," MacLeod said. "We need to show disci­pline because shots can come quickly or they can come after five or six passes. We need the discipline and patience to wait for those good shots. Also, we are constantly working on defense." 

Another concern for the Irish is their reliance on Garrity to pounded with Garrity's always outstanding play, Notre Dame should achievfl the consistency necessary to challenge the top in the Big East. 
lead the team. MacLeod 
.......---~......... 
---------~ is looking for others to step up more and more 
en's Basketball 
as the season progresses. "We would like to get 
·scnedule 
some balance amongst the team," he said. "We 
Feb 5 at Rutgers
also want more balance 
Feb 7 at Georgetown
between our oll'ense and 
Feb 11
defense. Offensively we like Garrity to be our 
Feb 14 
number one gun. We 
Feb 17 
want others to balance out the attack, so we 
Feb 22 
have more threats." 
Feb 25 
If more players con­
Feb28
tribute like Friel and Ingelsby did in the St. 
Mar 4-7 
John's contest, com-

WIN Six FREE TICKETS 
Visit us on the web and find aut how to win six free* round-trip tickets anywhere American flies in the contmental U.S. See web page for rules and specifics. 

SPECIAL LOW AIR FARES 
Sign up for College SAwAver Fares"' and Net S~Aver Fares1M announcing special savings to selected destinations via your e-mail. 

RECEIVE TRAVEL CERT1F1CATES 
Receive American Airlines/Citibcnk~ Student Travel Savings Certificates when you're approved for a nCKJnnual-fee Cilibank credit card. 
~~ 
I • ...:::........& 
CGI.LECT iADVANTAGE~ MILES 
Enroll in the Mdvanlage travel awards program and also learn abcut many other ways to travel far less with American. 
AmericanAirlines· 
Americantali 

Thursday, February 5, 1998 The Observer· CLUB SPORTS page 21 
-

Giddy-UP 
Horsing around: 
Although not one of the more well­known club sports at Notre Dame, the equestnan team 1s open to all interested students of all ability levels. 
Photos by joe Stark 


Show-horsing at Notre Dame 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
Probably the most misun­derstood and least known sport on campus is the eques­trian club team. However, equestrian is known well enough worldwide to have been recognized as an Olympic sport since 1960. 
There are two main events in equestrian competition: showjumping and dressage. Showjumping is jumping over a course of fences. Showjumping has two subdi­visions. In one of the subdivi­sions the goal is to have the fewest faults. which occur when the horse and rider fail to completely clear a fence. In timed competitions, the winner is the competitor com­pleting the course quickest, with additional seconds added on to the time for mis­takes. 
Dressage tests the horse's obedience along with the rider's control. This event consists of a series of move­ments called walk, trot and canter. Each movement is marked by judges who look for suppleness, balance, and the harmony between rider and horse. 
This year's equestrian team at Notre Dame consists of 20 women. No prior experience is needed for membership. There are individual classes based on skill level and expe­rience. Each individual class counts equally for the team. Therefore, depth is a key fac­tor in determining the victor. 
Freshman Diana Mastej and junior Calley Duffy are the most experienced riders on the team. Both Duffy and Mastej have competed on the show circuit in addition to being members of the club at Notre Dame. They compete in the open division which consists of the best riders in the country and some profes­sional riders. 
The ultimate goal is to advance to the nationals. "Hopefully if we keep pro­gressing on an individual and team basis we will make it to the nationals," Mastej said. 
The team's competition is against schools in the region, including Purdue and Ball State. There are 10 competi­tions a year in both the fall and spring semesters. 
The Irish host their first competition of the season March 1st at the Laughing Place Stable in Niles, Mich. All interested students are encouraged to attend and learn more about equestrian com petition. 


,. 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 5, 1998 
• WoMEN's SoFTBAll
-
Team gets ball rolling with Class of 2002 Signees 
Special lo The Observer Jarrah Myers 
When our current senior 
the mound in her first (Carbondale, class graduates, this class two years at Naples 
Notre Dame's softball learn Kan.) make can fill our needs in the lligh School. She has signed five high school up Notre lineup." allowed just two seniors to national letters of Dame's Class The switch-hitting 
earned runs in 198 intent, hoad coach Liz Miller of 2002. Eimen was named defen-Rebecca Eil'l'IEm"' SS Ma11nford, OK 
innings pitched with announced. Shortstop Hclwcca "We are sive player of the year in 
374 strikeouts. The Eimen (Mannford, Okla.). out­really excited both softball and basket-' CroWn Point, IN 
1996 florida high fielder Angnla Grimmer (Crown about this Miller ball as a junior at 
school softball player Point. Ind.), centerlielder Jenny class," said Mannford High School. Jenny Kri Indianapolis, IN 
of the year led her Kriech (Indianapolis, Ind.), Miller. "We expect this class to She was also named an Nap~E;s, Fl 
team to the state pitcher Michelle Moschel come in and make an impact on all-state shortstop in 
championship in 1995 (Naples, Fla.) and catcher our program immediately. 
and 1996 as a two­ranked first in her senior L--------------------' time first-team all-class, also starred in state selection. 
1997. Eimen, currently Jarrah MyerS • C Carbundle, KS 
This past summer she hit .352

track at Mannford, qualifying Myers led Sante Fe Trail High
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
with her Starpath summer

for the state championship four School in hitting as a catcher in
team.
Shorin-Hyu Karate -This semester-long course meets in times in the 100 and 200 each of her first three seasons,

The left-handed Kriech was aRockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6 to 7:30 meters. including a .512 batting average 

1997 first-team all-state selec­p.m. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is Grimmer earned all-state hon­in 1997 with no strikeouts in 80

tion while leading the
$18. Call1-8237. 

orable mention honors from at bats. She hit .569 in the sum­
Indianapolis area in both hittingCross Country Ski Clinics -RecSports will be sponsoring Hoosier Diamond after hitting mer of 1996 with her summer

and triples. Hoosier Diamondthree clinics this winter. The clinic wi11 be offered on Saturday, honored her in 1996 with theFeb. 7 at 2 p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $4 fielding percentage at shortstop Fastpiteh World selected Myers

fifth-best batting average in therental fee if you need to rent skis. Hegistration in adv~ce is while also stealing 32 bases in as one of its high school All­

state at Perry Meridian Highnlquired for all throe cross-country ski clinics. Jg,~, 1997. As a freshman, she Americans in 1997, while the

School, where she twice wasFemale runners -For running partners, motivation; new played in every inning of every NFCA named Myers an All­

named the team's MVP.
routes, and friends, one can become part of the newly-formed game at Adrean High School. America scholar. 

Women's Running Club. Come for an informational meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in LaFortune's Dooley Room7'' If you'd like, come dressed to run afterwards. Also, look for sign-up sheets in dorms and around campus. If you have any questions or would like to help lead the club, Call Rene at 4-2849 or A<>hley at+.,,
1
1211. > 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

1\(·t() I'S rf'() In l hp LoJld()ll ~lag·( ~ 

·. ~ , N-CAMPUS STUDENTS: 

.1 ' .~ • in vour residence halls 11am-1um &5-lpmOFF-CAMPUS STUDENTS: 
AMidsummer Night.,s earn 
•11am-1om in the Huddle 
16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 
•1:3Dum-5pm in C1 
Ticker Office. MaslerCard and Visa orders caii531-B128. 
lrain localion-gale10 oflheJACCJ 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series 
stu

BROUGHT TO YOU BY: 
,.. 
Moschel was a perfect 32-0 on 




Called home lately? 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
I 
Thursday, February 5, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
,~~~----------------------------~
I 
-

i MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries:A cheerful and fast-mov­ing world turns you into a chater­box today. Do not get so caught up in the moment that you speak unwisely. Certain subjects are best avoided altogether. 
Taurus: You are faced with a choice today. The easiest path is not necessarily the best one. If possible, postpone your decision until tonight or tomorrow. 
Gemini: Brace yourself for a thrilling ride on the rollercoaster of intellectual stimulation. Knowledge is power, and today 

MIKE PETERS 
you seem to know everything. Write it all down so you can remember it tomorrow. 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
Cancer: Your inner voices are getting urgent, but they are not saying anything new. Go about your business. and the turmoil will subside eventually. You have enough to worry about as it is. 
Leo: Something special is likely to happen today, whether or not you plan for it. Social time will be rewarding, especially if you spend it with those you care about. Important decisions will not mat­ter. 



DILBERT 
IT'5 INEXPLICABLE, BUT THE. LOW-C0.5T .SYSTEM I SOLD YOU SEEMS TO BE. WOE.FULLY UNDE.R­POWE.RE.D. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Where St. Pete is 4 Transmitter starter 9 Musical syllable 12 Create friction 14 Start 15 Pasty 16 Shared dwelling 18 Mary Steenburgen sitcom 19 Live 20 Big name in flying 22With "of," in total agreement 24 Purple shade 25 Continental Div., e.g. 26 Early course 
28 Serve a sentence 31 Yield 33 Collar type 34 "Sweet" stream of poetry 37 Further matter? 
38 Answer to "You wouldn't believe it" 
39 Croquet field 
40 Stiff and formal 
42 Raid site 
44 San Marino 
money 45 Racket 48 Hokey 50 Tune-up, oil 
change, etc. 52 Smooth worker 55 Sulky person 56 Legal thing 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
-=+=+:-:-1-::-i 
~=+::..+::~ 
YOU COULD RE.PLACE. IT 
WITH ANOTHER VENDOR'S SYSTEM 1 THUS 
SHOWING E.VE.RYBODY 
YOU 1"\ADE A MISTAKE . 
OR '<OU CAN PAY MY 
OUTRAGEOUS UPGRADE 
F"EE S . 
" 
57 Kind of experiment 59 Bridge between two vowels 60 Blake of jazz fame 61 "The King" 62 Vaudevillian Eddie 63 Alamogordo event 64 Short time 
DOWN 
1 Linguistically knowledgeable 2 Falls into disuse 3 "There's-­chance of that" 4Japanese drama 5 Sufficient, once 6 Diner order, with "the" 7 Decline again B Verdi opera 9 St. Paul, for one 
30 Chemical suffix 
10 Dancer with a few fans 
31 Big bird 11 "My Way" 32 Like some songwriter 
columns 341936 

~E+-=-fll!l-::::-+4;,:.+~•,:::~m~··· 12Moderninfo-keeper 
----~~~llii.t=t-:-1r=t:::-lllli.t-:::-+=-B 13 "The Fly" star, 
II! 1958 
~~~··· 17 Element 54 
-;; 21 Diner -:-t-:-t::+=+:::-l 23 Old gold coin -:-+::+-:-+::-+::-i 27 Step on it ..::-t':::+:-7+:;.-t-;='-1 29 Small business 
co-owner 
stu d e 
campaigner Landon 
35 Much 
36 Bitten before? 
38 First CinemaScope movie 
40 Dispatched 
41 Mourning band 
n t 
EUGENIA LAST 
down with someone and really get to know him. Conversation is unpredictable and rewarding. You may not solve any of the world's great problems today. but you might just make a new friend. 
Scorpio: Emotions are a tricky business today. Someone drops loaded words into a casual con­versation. There is an element of turmoil just below a seemingly calm. rational surface. 
Sagittarius: Your thoughts fix­ate on relationships today. to the point where it is difficult to con­centrate on anything else. You are the one whose words hold a beginning or an ending. Do not let this power cloud your views. 
Capricorn: It may be hard to keep working when everyone around you is in a mood to party. You might as well hang it up and enjoy yourself for awhile. If there's trouble later on, you can always blame someone else. 
Aquarius: You are shocked and delighted to hear your own ideas emerging from the mouth of someone else. Approach an old problem from an angle you have never considered. This is your day to explore and create. 
Pisces: Stop what you are doing and take a complete reality check. Do not assume that the salesperson is telling the truth, especially if she works on com­mission. Wait a few days before buying or selling your house. 

SCOTT ADAMS 
HOW BIG A FOOL DO YOU 
THINK. 
I AM"? 

I WON'T KNOW 
UNTIL I SEE IF YOU GO FOR THE LEASE 
Virgo: Everyone has an opin­ion, but no one seems interested in putting some 
action behind the words. Others are generally unreliable today. If anything gets accom­plished, it will be up to you. 
libra: This is a good day to sit 

OPTION.
) 
\ 
•
Wanted: Reporters and editors. Join The Observer 

43 First-class 45 Latin case 46 Peaceful 47 Social misfits 
53 "--My Heart" 49"Could--54 Grand slam more specific?" foursome 
staff.

51 Selects 58 Court decision 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
u n •I 0 n b 0 a r d 


" 

l today 
Jeanne White-Ginder 

Library Auditorium Cushing Auditorium LaFortune Huddle 7:00PM 10:30 PM $2.00 9 PM till2AM 
~~--~~----~-.----------------~--,-----------------~---------------------------------------------------------·------~----------------·--­
Observer Sports

-
• 
'98
page 24 Thursday, February 5, 1998 



2002: A Recruiting Odyssey 
• MEN' SoccER 

Irish turning to new class to balance roster 
• 
• 
... 
' 
Matt Rosso, from Churchville, Penn. These three additions hope to fill the large void cre­ated by the departure of the seniors. 
"Our coaching staff has done an exceptional job working to fill the major needs of our cur­rent team," Berticelli said. "These players, coupled with two more we are expected to sign later this week, will bring a truly talented and well-bal­anced freshman class to Notre Dame next fall." 
Walton ranks as one of the top players in Southern California and plays at the Bishop School where he has led his team to three consecu­tive California Interscholastic League Western Championships. He has been named the league's most valu­able player twice and has been a three-time Coastal League all-conference honoree. Along with his soccer accolades, Walton was a starting receiver and defensive back on his school's football team. He has earned all-conference honors on the football field as well. 
"Shane Walton is probably the most gifted, pure athlete we have ever signed as a soccer play­er at Notre 
D a m e , " 
Berticelli said. "His speed, bal­ance and explo­siveness are incredible. He passed up sever­al opportunities to play Division I football to focus on soccer and the academic challenges offered at Notre Dame." 
Oliver has been a two-year starter at Loyola High School, where he is the backbone of a tenacious defense. He has helped his team to 14 shutouts thus far in his final scholastic season. Oliver also has contributed to his team offensively with eight goals and two assists. 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Spans Writer 
With a strong base of young players returning from the 1997 team that traveled to Greensboro, N.C. for a fourth consecutive NCAA Final Four appearance, head women's soccer coach Chris Petrucelli added depth by signing three high school seniors to nation­al letters of intent. 
While the~lrish lose two team leaders in captains Holly Manthei and Kate Sobrero, Petrucelli is confident in the ability of the newest Domers. 
"We lose only two starters from the 1997 team," said Petrucelli, "so we expect this class to help continue our tra­dition of great teams over the next four years. This is a class that will solidify our future." 
The Notre Dame class of 2002 includes two midfield­ers: Lindsey Jones of South Bend, and Mia Sarkesian of Canton, Mich., and goalkeep­er Elizabeth Wagner of Spring, Texas. 
Notre Dame will literally be a home away from home for Jones, who starred at nearby John Adams High School -­the alma mater of former Irish forward and 1996 Big East championship most out­
• 
Tennis at Rolex National, Today 
Track and Field, Meyo Invitational, Tomorrow 
Basketball vs. Bethel College 

• 
Str.. \i.­
February 8, 2 p.m. 



"Evan is a talented defender Bosso hopes to help the Irish with very solid skills and in the midfield. A three-year excellent athleticism," starter at Holy Ghost Berticelli said. "He will bring Preparatory School, he has immediate speed and quick­ness to our defense." seeM. SOCCER I page 17 

Recruiting a class to keep Irish in the Final Four 
standing player Amy VanLaecke. Jones is a two­time first team all-state selec­tion and conference MVP. 
"Lindsey is extremely ath­letic and has the potential to develop into a quality player for us in the future," said Petrucelli. 
Sarkesian played controlled the midfield at Plymouth Salem High School, where she led the team in scoring en route to all-state and Parade all-America honors. Sarkesian also trained with her regional team and the Olympic devel­opment squad. 
"Mia is a very talented mid­fielder who we expect to develop into one of our top players," said Petrucelli. 
Wagner, a standout goalie at Klein High School, started every game and led the team to the state semifinal as a junior. Wagner is a four-time all-state selection and a National Soccer Coaches Association of America high school all-American who has trained at the under-19, under-16 and under -15 national team camps. 
"Liz gives us security in the goalkeeping position when she teams with LaKeysia Beene in goal," said Petrucelli. "She may be the best freshman goalkeeper next year." 
Beene, a first-team all­NSCAA all-American. led the nation with a goals against average less than one in 1997. 
These three recruits give the Irish, who finished at 23­1-1 and return four all­Americans and the 1997 Soccer America freshman of the year, Anne Makinen, a boost that may help propel them to another national title in 1998. 

Lindsew.Jones 
~ 
El 

The Class of 2002 
The Observer looks at Notre Dame's newest football recruits. 
See Pullout 



