
Tuesday, March 24, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 112 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Speak-out will address Garrick resignation 
By HEATHER COCKS 
Editor-in-Chief 
The debate about treatment of homosexuals at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's will enter a new chapter today at a speak-out protesting Father David Garrick's resig­nation and the factors he claims precipitated it. 
Garrick. a communications and theater professor, announced Thursday he will not return to Notre Dame next year because, as a celibate homosexual, he feels discriminated against by the administration. 
"We're all very upset about this and we're trying to support him," said Alyssa Hellrung, co-chair elect for Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, which helped organize the speak-out. 
"He comes to all our meetings and is very support­ive. It's awesome to have a faculty voice in our group that's positive," she said. "We're upset, and we wa.nt 

to see what dialogue can come out of this." 
The College Democrats, the Progressive Students' Alliance, GLND/SMC and the Women's Resource Center coordinated the event, which takes place from 4 to 6 p.m. this evening at Fieldhouse Mall. The coor­dinators expect 300 students to attend the speak-out, and hope faculty members will join them and Garrick at the podium. 
For the organizers, Garrick's announcement provid­ed a catalyst for public discussion of several gay and lesbian issues in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community, according to a press release from the stu­dents organizing the speak-out. 
Participants will also protest Notre Dame's refusal to add sexual orientation to the legal non-discrimination clause, the administration's refusal in 1993 to officially 
see SPEAK-OUT/ page 4 

w;hat: 

... ·.:::df:· ·····.·.·.·.. 

~iJfitj~f~bt

..M t;a~f!erGar:rick.and
'W th~-gay ~.lesbian
······························""'"''"......,..,.., . .,.. ······· .:::.::L'comrrfl.lnity 


Tonight 4-6 pm Fieldhouse Mall 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 



Students protest SOH's switch to Styrofoam 


The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Above: President ofStudents for Environmental Action Chris Wilmes addresses protesters in front ofSouth Dining Hall. The main point of the demonstration, according to Wilmes, was to encourage Notre Dame to consider the environ­ment over cost the next time they make a deci­sion that affects students to the same extent. Len: Sheila McCarthy showed her support. 

By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Assistant Managing Editor 
About 40 students gathered yesterday in front of the South Dining Hall to voice their collective concerns about the use of environ­mentally unfriendly polystyrene dishes. 
Hoping to show that there are many Notre Dame students who care about the environ­ment and the waste which South Dining Hall is creating by throwing away hundreds of poly­styrene cups and trays per day, several con­cerned students took the microphone to pose alternative solutions to polystyrene use. 
"We pay a lot of money to go to this universi­ty," said Shawn Broz, a senior from Keough Hall. "It seems like something could have been done before, but now the damage [purchasing the polystyrene] has been done. In the future, the university should think about the environ­ment more than what fits into the budget." 
A main point of the rally was to encourage Notre Dame to consider environmental factors over cost the next time they make such a widespread decision, according to Chris Wilmes, the president of the Students for Environmental Action. 
"Basically, we want to show that there are students who are willing to pay more money if it means that [the University] would be making an environmentally sound decision," Wilmes said. 
Some students encouraged SOH diners to make the trek to North Dining Hall, where reusable china, silverware and trays are used. 
"Bring your own plates, go to North, do whatever you can," said Sheila McCarthy, a freshman from Pasquerilla West. 
Many of the speakers encouraged students 
see WASTE I page 6 
• Hm.ocAusr PROJECT 



Films educate about Holocaust 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
A movie director and four professors from around the nation gathered at The Snite Museum last weekend to dis­cuss the usc of film and media in Holocaust education. 
The academic symposium, spon­sored by the Notre Dame Holocaust Project, concluded a weekend of Holocaust-related film screenings at the Snitc. 
Although each speaker addressed a different aspect of Holocaust educa­tion, they generally agreed that teach­ing such a complex historical event is difficult. They also concurred that film may be a useful tool in that process. 
"Our sense of painful history is limit­ed. I find [film] a useful vehicle to open up what happened," said Stuart Liebman, a professor from Queens College and the City University of New York. 
Liebman, who is perhaps most well­known for his real-life role as Jerry Seinfeld's film instructor in the mid-70's, now teaches his students about the Holocaust. Liebman opens his course with powerful imagery of the time, such as the gas chambers or the overcrowded railroad cars headed toward the concentration camps. 

"I would like students to be deeply abject at the end with the power and weight of what happened to a group of humans, a group who was really an outside group. I make them experience that firsthand as a kind of moral ruf­fling." 
"People have to be shaken out of the idea that this was not just one person killing another. I want them to keep asking questions at the end; that they always have somewhere in the back of their minds that this could happen," he said." 

Irene Lilienheim Angelico, director of a film shown during the symposium, recognizes the importance of exploring the medium as a vehicle for education. 
"Film is the medium of our century. It will touch the most people," she said. "Film gives shape to people who haven't experienced the Holocaust. It gives shape to things that are so hor­rific otherwise." 
Angelico, as a daughter of two Holocaust survivors, has a special insight into the role of film in 
see FILMS/ page 4 
BEST ACTOR: JACK NICHOLSON, 
As GooD AS IT GETS 
BEST ACTRESS: HELEN HUNT, 
As GooD AS IT Gns BEST PICTURE: TITANIC BEST ORIG. SCREENPLAY: 
GooD WILL HuNTING 
BEST SUPPORTING ACTOR: 
ROBIN WIWAMS, GooD Will 
HUNTING 


BEST SUPPORTING ACTRESS: 
KIM BASINGER, L.A. CONFIDENTIAL BEST SCORE: TITANIC BEST SONG: "My HEART WILL 
Go ON " TITANIC 

The Observer/Heather Cocks 
Tuesday, March 24, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

University 'blew it' in distrubuting Social Security numbers 
TUCSON, Ariz. negotiations are underway with 
University of Arizona officials Saguaro Credit Union, Proetor said. released student and employee Social "Hight now, I'm trying to stop the Security numbers to two eompanies in bleeding," he said, adding that he has their zeal to set up the new CatCard not yet determined nxaetly how the system -a move that may have violat­information was released or if the ed federal law. release was legal. 
University attorney Michael Proetor "But basieally, I think we blew it," said UA is "not making exeuses" for Proctor said. providing the data to Saguaro Credit The Family Educational Hights and Union and MCI Telecommunications Privacy Aet prohibits schools from Corp., and said it is likely the University releasing "personally identifiable infor­violated state and federal law by mation" without students' permission. releasing the information. Proctor said UA employees involved 
"More likely it is a violation than it is in releasing the information probably
"Since I don't do business with MCI 
not a violation," Proetor said. "My believed it was legal to rnlease Soda!
and I didn't release my SSN, I asked 
sense is that it probably is a violation." Security numbers to service providers. 
her how she got the information and
Terrence Bressi, a Lunar and "Clearly, releasing the meords violat­
she replied it was released by the uni­
Planetary Lab engineer, and physies ed the spirit of the law," said journal­
versity," Bressi's e-mail stated. 
senior Andrew Tubbiolo began looking ism lecturer Jim Mitchell, who holds a
Damage control hit a fever pitch
into the matter after they called MCI law degree. "Someone in tho university
Thursday when UA officials promised
regarding the calling card feature of would have to be monumentally stupid 
to retrieve the information. MCI is
the new CatCards and were asked to to release records for commercial pur­
expected to delete Social Security num­
verify their Social Security numbers, poses."
bers from their system today, and 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

SDH is truly disappointing 
I am glad that I live  Gene Brtalik  
on North Quad. Last  Sports Writer  
week, before I attended  
dass,  I deeided to eat  

breakfast at South Dining Hall, since I was 
in the vicinity and didn't feel like walking 
back to NDH. I had eaten there several 
times last year and had 1mjoyed the ehange 
from North Dining Hall. 
While North offers one a ehoiee of several different areas to mix and match a food seleetion ranging from Italian to Mexiean, South has all the options in one room and isn't as diverse as its counterpart. South Dining flail also has a more traditional feel to it. The building's high eeilings, raised seating area, and more arehaie look make it resemble a traditional English setting. 
I heard about the changes that were being made to SDH due to the addition of students to Notre Dame's new Golf Quad, but I never expected what I ran into last week. 
As I entered the dining hall, it had a sort of gloomy feel to it, caused by the relative darkness that had invaded the building. Next I looked to gather my utensils and tray. The silver that I had come accustomed to at NDH was replaced by plastic deformed utensils that were lit for a child. The tray and plate were both made of every ecolo­gist's nightmare material -Styrofoam. 
I then went to decide on my food prefer­ence to get me through the live hours of dasses that lay before me. The food trays were being kept warm by sternos and the food inside looked like it had been cooked a week ago. I have grown used to eating the mediocre food served in the dining halls, but this was ridiculous. Not only was the food worse than ever, but it also was eold. The only things that could be considered edible were the eereal and the bagels. 
I realize that saeriliees needed to be made by the students so that the SDH could be reopened by next fall, but cold food served on environmentally destructive Styrofoam is way past making a sacrifice. How would the administration feel if our parents knew that their hard earned money was not being used to aid students now because the school was selfishly saving money in this manner? They probably could eare less and would just raise the tuition another $5,000. 
II' our administration is so concerned about saving money, then why not use that money to do something about the thousands of puddles that form on the sidewalks each time it rains here? Almost every student here in some way or another gives $25,000 to Notrn Dame, and it seems like the money is never used to the advantage of the stu­dent. 
Father Edward Malloy and the rest of the staff should focus their eoneerns on pleas­ing the students so that we don't eome baek from class complaining to our roommates about another one of the many small prob­lems that have been overlooked by the University. 
To all the frequent visitors of South Dining Hall: If you are willing to take the walk over to North come on by and taste the food you normally eat at SDH hot and probably a few days fresher. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TooAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Sarah Hiltz  Kristi Klitsch  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Anne Hosinski  Melissa Weber  
Sports  Production  
Shannon Ryan  Betsy Baker  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Spencer Stefko  John Daily  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xt.:t:pr during exam and vacation pC'riod11. The Observer is a member of the A),sociatcd Press. All rt:production rights art: reserved. 
• JAMES MAOISON UNIVERSITY 

Med center accused of misdiagnosis 
HARIUSONBURG, Va. 
JMU is internally investigating the University Health Center in response to a student's allegation that a misdiagnosis required him to undergo emergency surgery. "Anytime a student has a complaint, we look into it," said Health Center director Donna Harper. Sophomore Austin Adams said he first went to the health center Feb. 26 with a sore throat. His symptoms worsened over the next several days, and he returned to the health center, he said. Adams, who filed the eomplaint last week, went from the health center to the Rockingham Memorial Hospital emergency room March 3, where doctors diagnosed him with a peritonsillar abscess behind his right tonsil, he said. "My tonsils swelled to where I was worried that I wasn't [going to be] able to breathe," Adams said. He had emergency surgery Mareh 3. Doetors removed about a tablespoon of liquid from the golfball-sized abscess. Adams said the Health Center gave him two strep tests and a mononucleosis test, both of which were negative. The Health Center prescribed Prednisone, a steroid used to treat allergies, asthma, arthritis and skin conditions. 
•IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 

Student arrested in sexual assault 
AMES, Iowa 
One of the four Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity members suspended last month for alleged sexual misconduct turned himself in to the Ames police department last week. John Richard Tate, senior in pre-advertising, turned himself over to the Ames Police Department last Monday after a warrant was issued for his arrest. A press release from Ames police stated the warrant eharged Tate with sexual assault in the third degree, a class C felony punish­able by a maximum of 10 years in prison and a fine of $10,000. The incident in question occurred in December 1996 at the SAE fraternity house. Dean of students Kathleen MaeKay said a university judicial case will be brought against Tate only if there is enough evidenee found from the investigation. She said hearings could begin after he is charged or not until a verdict has been reached. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 
Plaintiffs win $1 in discrimination suit 
AUSTIN, Texas 

Plaintiffs in the affirmative action suit that ended the use of raee in admissions and financial aid at the University said Sunday they will appeal a $1 settlement issued by a federal judge last week. A U.S. district judge ruled Friday that each of the four plaintiffs in the Mareh 1996 I lopwood vs. Texas case would receive $1, not nearly the $5 million they demanded in their lawsuit against the UT System for its affirmative action polieies. After being rejected for admission by the UT School of Law in 1992, the four white plantiffs successfully ehallenged the University's law sehool admissions policies created to boost minority enrollment. The Fifth U.S. Cireuit Court ruling in the Hopwood vs. Texas case led Texas Attorney General Dan Morales to force the end of affirmative action practices in Toxas publie eolleges and universities. While the damage requests of the plaintiffs were denied, U.S. Distriet Judge Sam Sparks did award them about $776,000 in attorneys' fees and court costs. But Steven Smith, the Austin attorney for plaintill's Kenneth Elliott and David Hogers, called the ruling unfair. 
• CORNELl UNIVERSITY Alumnus charged in brutal slaying 
ITHACA, N.Y. 

Cornell alumnus Edmund Ko was eharged yesterday with second-degree murder of his former girlfriend and Cornell alumna, llyeseung Hong. The woman, a third-year law stu­dent at Columbia, was found dead in her apartment by boyfriend Christopher Lee at 7:30 p.m. on Friday. Unable to reach Hong for several days, Lee broke into Hong's apart­ment and diseovered the 26-year-old uneonseious and lying face-down in a pool of blood. Lee ealled 911, but llong died before emergency vehicles eould arrive. Police arrestnd Ko on Saturday night as the prime suspeet in their ongoing murder investigation. Judge William Leibovitz ruled that the 23-year-old unemployed New Jersey man be held without bail until the ease is brought to trial. According to an autop­sy conducted Saturday, Hong's throat had been slashed resulting in death from external bleeding and air entering her heart. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 24. 
Tuesday Wedn~sdayq, 51 32 Thursday ~ 68 46 

''''' 

Friday 4, 70 51 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather. Inc 
( 
Pressure 
H L


Saturday. ~66 54 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
,.· ~~ r... ,.... , . '·~-..t·~
5) v ........./ 

Albany 39 17 Denver 73 44 Omaha 56 47 Atlanta 60 48 Detroit 48 34 Reno 64 40 Baltimore 50 28 Green Bay 38 29 Richmond 55 32
4,Q,~9,Q,Q ~ ~ ~ 
Billings 61 41 Houston 80 60 Seattle 58 44
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Boston 46 27 Miami 78 63 Tucson 90 56
Vta Associated Press GmphicsNet 



Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• GRADUATE STUDENT UNION 
Candid.ates. 
w.ill square off tonight 
ByMATTHEW LOUGHRAN News Editor 
. The Graduate Student Union will begin the process of finding a new president and vice-presi­dent with its election debate at 7 
p.m. tonight in the Notre Dame Hoom of LaFortune Student Center. · This year, a...:; last year, a con­tested election for the GSU's highest offices make the debate forum a necessity. Two tickets will run this year in the elec­tions. which will be held on March 31. 
The more experienced ticket 
of Marybeth Graham and David 
Fowle will present a platform 
that focuses on departmental 
representation. 
"The past year has seen the 
Graduate Student Union expand 
in terms of its departmental rep­
resentation," reads their plat­
form statement. "We have had a 
record number of representa­
tives involved in making deci:. 
sions that affect the quality of all 
facets of graduate student life." 
The two have vowed to 
improve existing opportunities 
for teaching assistant training 
and enhance job placement 
resources for all academic posi-' 
tions. 
Graham is a third-year psy­
chology student; who has held a 
departmeni representative seat 
for two years and currently 
serves as the chair of the acade~ 
mic affairs committee. Fowle,· a 
second-year civil engineering 
and geological sCiences student; 
has been a department repre~ 
sentative for two years and is. tt. 
member of the academic affairs 
committee. 
First-year physics graduate students Ryan Hooper and 
Michael McLaughlin will oppose 
Graham and Fowle in their bid 
to head the GSU.. The two have 
no experience on the G-raduate 
Student Council, but Hooper, the 
presidential candidate, does not 
see this as an irripedin:Hmt to 
success. 
''There have been a few things 
!With the current GSUJ for which 
the presentation has been 
poor," Hooper said. "There have 
been problems sometimes with 
getting the word out and that 
people didn't know what's going ... 
on. 
"I think that it will be good to 
get people who havea different; 
a drastically different, viewpoint ·· 
than the rest of the council," he 
continued. "In thatwayJ think 
that it is actually an advantage 
for us." 
Hooper.• lal:)eled .socialactivi~ • 
ties and graduate studenthealth· 
insurance as the main concerns · ofhis campaign. "One of the biggest issues is the social life," he said. uwe 
have enough going on<in our lives, that we need tO have chances to relax and to meet more fellow graduate stud¢pts." 
He added that he believes that the University bas. to offer grad-•• uate . students a Wider ·range ()f. options in the at9a of·bealth care. . •..· . • ... ......• , 
Elections: Will he held aweek? from today in various locations acr(}ss c~U1PU~.~·..·.St\lde.t~ts ••catl vote from. 10 a.m: until 2 p:m>at i assigned college voting booths. 
Co~ege of~ tl.J}4 J.u;
·dents will vote in the rgh·· 
Library Concourse. Scien~ stu~ 
dents can yote .in: the m;~~f1oor. 
lobby of. Nieuwland na.u;·••· 
Students in the College of 
Engineering' can ~t W.e.ir V(}te
in Cw;hing Hall. . ······ .. . ·.·· ... ... ..... 
• CAMPUS liFE CouNCIL 


Senators debate law changes 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 

Morrissey Ilall senator Matt Szabo and Keough Hall sena­tor A.J. Boyd met with lively debate when they introduced possible corrections to the bylaws of the Campus Life Council last night. 
Members argued over whether or not the CLC should attempt to make any changes to its membership for the com­ing year. Specifically at issue was Article III, section 6, which allows for the inclusion of a member of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs on the council. 
"[The membership section] is almost the same as before, but section six is new," observed Father David Scheidler, rector of St. Edward's Hall. "Just having someone appointed is inconsistent with the power structure in the U.S. It is not democracy." 
Szabo defended the section saying, "I cannot go forward with a representative from the Student Union Board and ignore important issues that effect campus life [which an OMSA representative might bring to light]." 
"I don't object to the possible change in membership," said assistant vice president for residence life William Kirk. "I am just worried that with only two meetings left, we will not have enough to time to ade­quately discuss these signifi­cant changes." 
Kirk went on to say that he believed the committee would modernize the language of the bylaws in order to clear up any confusion that might arise from references to such enti­ties as the "dean of students," which became the "assistant 
Eroticism and secrecy hauntthis film. Nothing is·what it. seems." 
-Caryn James, THE NEW YORK TIMES 
"A gripping, psychological puzzle." 

vice president for residence life." Student body president Matt Griffin agreed with Kirk. 
"I think that we first need to see the edited copy [of the bylaws] so that we can get an idea of the past makeup the present makeup and the cur­rent proposed makeup," he said. 
Boyd agreed bring a copy to the meeting next week that highlight and provide the rationale behind any changes. 
In other CLC news: 
•The diversity committee introduced a resolution to develop a diversity presenta­tion for freshman orientation. The council will discuss and vote on the resolution in next week's meeting. 

•Alcohol 
committee chair­man Capt. Russell Pickett pre­sented the council with a Faculty Senate resolution to improve the drug and alcohol abuse prevention program at Notre Dame. 

•At 
the meeting before mid­semester break, Father Bill Seetch, Morrissey Hall recto.r, presented a resolution to limit the number of years that a rector can serve in one dorm. Since that time, Seetch has­been ill and unable to attend any meetings. The council has tabled debate on his resolution until he is well enough to attend. 


•SECURITY BEAT 
·...•.•.••...• ,•.••••.••••.•....•.••.. FRI:~MARCH.20 
?>~ ll·''(k ~~isitotw~s .transportee! t() .···· 
Memoiiallif~spitaJ ftllrtreatmentof an III.'
ness. . ·. 
8:2$ a~m. Security transported aMcGlinn Hail restdeot ~o the. University Health Genter for treatment of an Illness. 
·9tSo· p.m. An off-campus stud~nt was transported to St. Joseph Medical Center for treatment of a sports Injury. 
SAT., MARCH 21 

10:58 p.m. Siieurlty cited a Granger resi· dent lor speeding on N9tre Dame Avenue. 
11:10 p.m. Ah O'Neill Hall reslc!ent was cited by Security for speeding ol'l Notre Dame Avenue. 
SUN., MARCH 22 

4:05a.m. Security cited a Saint Mary's studentfor "minor consuming alcohol." 
5:30 p.m. Security responded to a two car accident in the Cl parking lot There were no injuries reported. 
1:33 p.m. An Alumni Hall resident the theft of his Notre Dame class ring from his ro6m. 
Come to the Center for Social Concerns April I or April 2, I997 for an interview for the New York Teacher Volunteer Program. You will be teaching in a Catholic inner city high school, living in community and experienci~g the culturalrichness of New York. 
Call Sister Deanna Sabetta for an application at 212-371-1011 EX 2803. Set up an interview appointment at the Center before April I. 
Come and find out how "to have a year to remember and an experience you will never forget." 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
You can't approach the people who never would have
Films 

Holocaust or Holocaust films gone to the cinema. It maybe

Speak-out 
continued from page 1 
rncognize GLNDISMC, and Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred's March 4 denial of club status to The Alliance. 
"llis ]Garrick's] resignation is in reaction to the unjust and discriminatory treatment that lw and fellow gay and lesbian colleagues and students have received from the administra­tion," the press release states. 
Garrick made public his sexu­al orientation in a letter to the editor published in The Observer on April 4, 1996. After that time. he claims the administration deliberately sus­pended him from saying Mass in tho Basilica of the Sacred I Ieart and from hearing confes­sion. 
Fathor John Jenkins, a reli­gious superior at the Basilica of 
the Sacred Heart, released a 
statement to The Observer and the South Bend Tribune regard­ing Garrick's allegations. 
"Father Garrick has always had and continues to have full faculties to preside at the Eucharist and hear Confessions, or perform any other priestly ministry, wherever he is invit­ed," the statement reads. Jenkins earlier said, "Father . Garrick and I have had a num­ber of conversations about his decision. We have several hon­est but mutually respectful dis­agreements about some of his concerns and elaims, which we have expressed to one another. "I feel Father Garrick has been a valuable presence at Notre Dame, and I and others urged him not to resign, and I respect that decision, which was not made easily or lightly. He is a dedicated priest, and I hope and pray he will find a fruitful and satisfying ministry," h!l added. 
continued from page 1 
Holocaust education. She feels 
that it allows the children of 
survivors to get a closer glimpse 
at the experiences of their par­
ents. 

"Many of us grew up knowing 
or not knowing hard informa­
tion about the Holocaust. But 
none of us could give shape to it. 
It was just out there," she said. 
"Film gave us a shape. You 
had to go through the depres­
sion and emotions to start to ·learn about it." 
Angelico also pointed out that, 
as the last generation of 
Holocaust survivors continues to 
age, the possibility for· firsthand 
contact with those people is lim­
ited. She explained that video­
taped testimony will soon be the 
only link to the survivors and 
their stories. 

"In a way, all of the next gen­
erations are in the same boat. 
All of the survivors are dying 
and all of us will be learning 
about it secondhand," she said. 
As for the lessons of the Holocaust, everyone generally agreed that such a complex experience cannot be summed up in a neat list of lessons. 
"There isn't a 'message' I can give you. It's much more impor­tant to think about the complex­ity than to reduce it to a single take-home message," said Professor Marcia Landy from the University of Pittsburgh. 
Angelico agreed with this phi­losophy. 
"We always have to keep in mind hat we'll never really understand it, but we need to learn as much as possible," she said. "There are facts that need to be known and known well. 
without bringing your whole soul to it. 
"The arts and film are espe­cially useful in helping you feel what happened, to experience in some way what the people in the 1-Iolocau11t experienced. It has to touch all those aspects of what a human being is trying to learn from this," Angelico explained. 
Although film has distinct benefits in Holocaust education there are disadvantages to it a~ 


Meta-analysis expert to speak on Thursday 
Special 10 The Observer was appointed to the Warren chair in 1985. His early work Donald Lehmann, the George examined attitude theory and 
E. Warren Professor of similarity judgment, as well as Business at Columbia the methodology of test market­University. will deliver a lecture ing, question and scale design, at 3:30 p.m. Thursday in the halo elTects the measurement of College of Business advertising effects and segmen­Administration. tation. More recently, he has 
Titled "The Futures of studied meta-analysis -the Marketing," the talk is part of' goal of accumulating knowl­the college's O'Brien-Smith edge -and he has helped pio­Visiting Scholars Program. It is neer and encourage the study free and open to the public of managerial decision-making. 
Trained as a quantitative Lehmann is the author or researcher at Purdue coauthor of six books and has University, Lehmann joined the written more than three dozen Columbia faculty in 1969 and journal articles. 
Oet~~tirj Tie !J~t Pizza.! [3®®~ ~LU® ®Q®®~ l1CDG)~(]]ruSJ9 
Anytime you call between 
5:30 & 7:00, 
the price of your large 1 topping pizza is the time you call. 
* Plus tax 

ND store  
271-1177  ~---......-~.,: _,.•.t.:.i . . -;;-''  
I  I  
I  :7' r-:::1  
Saint Mary's/ North Village Mall  I I I  ~  .  ,,.  ' '  . :I .;1 :,:::.,:,;.~.:~.·:I  
271-PAPA  ~·~~~~--~-~,-~  

.." 

Anytime 
you call between 
10:30 -12:59, 
the price of your 2 large. 1 topping pizzas is the time you call. 
* Plus tax 
Drive-In and Delivery Visa/Mastercard Accepted 
well. Angelico spoke of a broadcast on the Holocaust that ran in the United States 
in 1979, then ran a few months later 
in Germany. The Holocaust was not taught in German schools or even discussed in German trivialized things in some way, but it reached so many people. 
"In Germany at that time, no one talked about it ]the Holocaust). It was a big silence, so the reaction to that was enor­mous. It was very emotional." 
Landy also addressed the pos­sible disadvantages to using film in education, or even in the gen­eral public to deal with histori­cal issues like the Holocaust. She is concerned about Hollywood judging a movie's 

'IT'S MUCH MORE IMPOR­
TANT TO THINK ABOUT THE COMPLEXITY THAN TO REDUCE IT TO A SINGLE TAKE-HOME MESSAGE.' 
PROFESSOR MARCIA LANOY uNIVERSITY OF P!7TSIJUUGII 
popularit} solely on tick­et sales and not on audi­ence reaction. 
"llow do we u n de rs tan d what the pop­ular mode is? Maybe the popular is 
really unpop­ular. Mayl>e we just don't know audi­ences well 

homes at that time, according to enough," she said. An-gelico. The I Ioloeaust Project's spring 
"I think the risks and the events continue on April 19 with advantages are all wrapped up the Holocaust Memorial together," she said. "It was one Chamber Music Concert and the of those breakthrough broad­opening of the Jell'rey Wolin Art casts because it reached a lot of Exhibit at the Snite. 


-----~­
• Wom.o NEWS BRIEFS 
Israel proposes expansion of Jerusalem 
JERUSALEM 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Jerusalem's mayor are preparing a bill that would expand the borders of Israel's contest­ed capital westward to mark the Jewish state's 50th anniversary, Israeli TV said Monday. The proposal would not incorporate Jewish settlements on contested land to the north, east and south of the city -a move that would have had explosive consequences. However, it does include a clause that would "bolster ties" between Jerusalem and the West Bank settlements of Maaleh Adumim and Givat Zeev, Channel 2 TV said. The report did not give details on what this would mean. Netanyahu adviser David Bar-IIlan, said the plan was not new and had been con­sidemd by the previous government. 
Florida executes serial killer 
STARKE, Fla. 
A former short order cook who confessed to 41 murders was executed this morning in Florida's electric chair, the state's first execu­tion since flames flared from a condemned man's mask a year ago. In the first of four electrocutions scheduled in the state for the next eight days, Gerald Stano, 46, was execut­ed for killing a 17-year-old hitchhiker in December 1973. There was no visible smoke or !lame. Stano had said only that his attorney and religious adviser would release his final statement. He then stared straight ahead as he was strapped in, mustering only a small smile "I was not strong enough. I confessed to crimes that I did not commit," Stano said in the full-page typewritten statement. 
Kosovo releases U.S. peace activists 
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia 
Six American activists jailed in Serbia's troubled Kosovo region for not registering with the police were released today after two days behind bars. They were immediately deported. The activists from the San Francisco-based Peaceworks group were freed at about noon and taken to the Macedonian border, said Richard Miles, the 
U.S. charge d'affaires in Belgrade. Miles said they were being looked after by the U.S. Embassy in Skopje, Macedonia. The activists were arrested Saturday and sentenced to 10­day jail terms for not checking in with local police during their stay, as is required under law. The delegation arrived in Kosovo on March 10 and had been instructing ethnic Albanian activists on nonviolent conflict reso­lution. 
Nasdaq:

-90.8 1792.51 

+3.35 
NYSE: 
570.541 
-2.07 
S&P 500: 
1095.55 
-3.61

8,816.25 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
q>MJ•ANY r!CKFR %11!AN(if \!lAIN PRICE 
ULTRA PAC INC UPAC 124.30 8.31 15.00 NEOPH;\RM INC NPRMW 64.29 1.13 2.87 CONSULIER ENGINE CSLR 52.94 2.25 6.50 INFONAUTICS INC INFO 45.16 1.75 5.63 TRANSCEND THERAPY TSND 40.91 1.13 4.75 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
GRAHAM FIELD GFI 58.92 11.56 8.06 ENGEL DEVELOPMENT ENGEF 25.42 1.87 5.50 DATAMARK HOLDING DTAM 25.00 1.25 3.75 USA BRIDGE USSR 23.06 0.56 1.18 CREATIVE COMP MALL 22.09 2.38 8.37 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• RussiA 





Yeltsin dismisses entire Cabinet 
AssociATED PREss 
MOSCOW 
President Boris Yeltsin picked a little-known reformer as acting prime minister Monday after firing his entire Cabinet without warning. He promised that Russia's biggest government shakeup since the Soviet Union dissolved would not derail democratic and free­market reforms. 
Yeltsin shocked many Russians when he dismissed the Cabinet, including his stolid and loyal prime min­ister, Viktor Chernomyrdin. Few had ever heard of the 
man  named  as  
Chernomyrdin's  acting  
replacement,  Sergei  
Kirienko.  

Despite the shakeup, lead­ers from Yeltsin on down insisted Russia was not tee­tering on the verge of a political crisis. 
"There is no governmental crisis in the country," Chernomyrdin said after los­ing the job he had held since 1992. "This is a natural and routine process of renewing power. One thing is clear: The course of reforms in Russia is irreversible." 
Most Cabinet members were ordered to stay on tem­porarily and many, including Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov, were expected to keep their posts. 
In Washington, State Department spokesman James Foley said Secretary of State Madeleine Albright will discuss implications of the changes with Primakov during a previously arranged 
w -;ue a e; 


meeting Tuesday in Bonn, Germany. 
President Clinton, traveling in Africa, said Yeltsin's action is not likely to harm the partnership he has been trying to build with Moscow. 
One symbol ofU.S.-Russian cooperation has been Vice President AI Gore's fre­quent meetings with Chernomyrdin. Their last meeting, just 10 days ago, produced a flurry of accords and good will. 
Yeltsin said he needed a fresh government to reener­gize economic reforms, which he said were moving too slowly, jeopardizing the future of democracy in Russia. 
"I believe that recently the government has been lack­ing dynamism and initiative, new outlooks, fresh approaches and ideas. And without this, a powerful breakthrough in the econo­my is impossible," he said, speaking slowly and calmly in a nationwide television broadcast. 
The Russian economy actually has begun to show signs of growth after years of decline. But as Yeltsin ack­nowledged, it has been too little, too late for many peo­ple. 
Yeltsin fires deputies fre­quently, and is known for a strategy of shifting blame to others for perceived failures of his government. But Cher­nomyrdin had survived so long that many considered him untouchable. 
"It came as a total sur­prise, said Gennady Seleznyov, the speaker of the State Duma, the opposition­controlled lower house of Parliament. 

-~---~~----...,....-------~-~-~~ 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
• BUSINESS BEAT 
MBAs clash in case battle 
By SARAH J. HILTZ Associate News Editor 
Three students from the Notre Dame MBA program did not go to bed last night. 
Mark Bycraft, Mark Lawrence and Brandon Solano most likely spent all of yestnrday and last night in a room in the College of Business Administration, preparing for the 16th annual MBA Invitational Case Competition. 
Hepresentatives of Brigham Young University, Duke University, University of Maryland, Ohio State University and Notro Dame will prepare a case in corpo­rate strategy for judging by a panel of business leaders and a distinguished pro­fessor of management. 
Yesterday at 8 a.m., each team was given a eom pany profile of Southwest Airlines. They have until 10 a.m. today to compile a presentation and analysis of the airline from a business standpoint. At this point, the first team will give a 20 minute presentation followed by a rigor­ous q~estion period by the judges. 
Paul Conway, a finance professor who started the program in 1982 and contin­ues to organize it annually, emphasized The Observer/Melissa Weber that the students need to understand and utilize all facets of business in order to Invitational Case Competition. succeed in the competition and in busi­The head judge this year is Michael 


ness in gennral. Hitt from the department of Business 
'The program deals with various prob­Administration at Texas A&M University. lems that they would encounter, for llitt also serves as president of the example, in their MBA classes .... They American Management Association. The 
will apply what they've used in all of business judges are: Paresh Chari, direc­their training. Marketing, financial, man­tor of international business at Jordan agement, ethics, all of the facets of busi­Industries; Matthew Gray, vice president 
ness will be used," Conway said. of Keybank National Association; Betsy 
All of the students of the requisite MBA Joseph, engagement manager at class Corporate Strategy and Plan are McKinsey & Company, Inc.; and Rick required to submit a written case analy­Lutterbach, chairman and emeritus sis. From these entries, live teams of four director of the Leap Group, Inc. students eaeh were chosen for an inter­The competition is sponsored by nal Notre Dame case competition. Fannie May Corporation. Competition 
These live tnams squared off on Feb. l'inals will take place in Jordan 
24. The winning team was asked to Auditorium at COBA today from 10 a.m. seleet three members to continue to the to 5 p_.m. The event is open to the public. 
SMC tuition Inay increase 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT rooms connected to the Internet," he Saint Mary's News Editor continued. "With possible expansion being made 
An increase in tuition at Saint Mary's to the computer labs, these changes. College has been proposed for the will allow students to feel more in 1998-99 academic year. touch with the many technological 
Although the final decision has yet to changes," Osberger stressed. be made, this proposal calls for a five In addition to having academic build­percent increase in the present tuition. ings connected to the Internet, there 
The Board of Trustees will come to a would be changes made within the dor­final decision this next month, accord­mitories so that each room would have ing to Dan Osberger, vice-president for its own connection. Cable television fiscal affairs. • hookups in each of the dormitories was 
"We are looking toward an increase another point of interest under discus­in the tuition," Osberger stated. sion. Through a policy such as this, 
The many additional changes in the every room would attain access to technological systems at Saint Mary's, cable television as well. is one reason for the proposed Furthermore, he stressed the impor­increase. tance of Saint Mary's keeping up with 
"Developing electrical systems so the changes in technology. each classroom can be linked with the "These are significant upgrades that Internet has been one of the most sig­we are considering." Osberger stated. nificant reasons for this change of pace "With the many changes in technology, at Saint Mary's College," Osberger stat­it is important that we are able to keep ed. up with the pace of things," he contin­
"Our goal is to have each of the class-ued. 
money to do this. They just aren't." Students were also concerned with the 

Waste 
administration's apparent lack of eon­cern for student opinion about using
continued from page 1 
polystyrene in the dining hall. 
to sign a petition asking the administra­"The biggest insult was that they Lthe tion to be more aware the next time they administrationl did not discuss this issue make a decision that concerns the safety with the students," said Aaron Kreider, of the environment. a graduate student in economics. "That 
"Maybe they [the administration] think is no way to deal-with things. There that if students didn't protest, then their needs to be a change in the decision decision is okay," Broz said. They don't making process." think about how mueh they throw away. Although fewer students turned out This university looks at things on an eco­for the rally than were initially antic.ipat­nomic basis; their best interest is in their ed, Wilmes felt that it was an overall pocketbook." success. 
"It is easy to look in the paper and "There were a lot of people coming read about [things like this rally] and and going," he said. "I was pretty say, 'Oh. no, here go the tree-huggers pleased with how many people got up again,"' agreed graduate student Mike and spoke. 0f'f'mf'r. "It may seem like an insignifi­The SEA will be circulating petitions cant thing to recycle, but we all know throughout tim next week in the dining that this campus has more than enough halls and in several dorms. 
Attention Notre Dame Students: 
The Admissions Office is looking for enthusiastic volunteers to help welcome potential members of the next Freshman Class to Notre Dame. By the end of the month, we will have mailed decision letters to thou.. sands of students who applied to Notre Dame. Hundreds of those admitted will want to visit the University, meet students, spend a night in a dorm, attend classes, and in general, get a sense of the Notre Dame community. We initially approached our Hospitality Program members to volunteer to host. Since we can never be certain what the demand for overnight visits will be, we are extending this invita .. tion to any enthusiastic member of Notre Dame. We will offer accomodations on all of the following nights. If you can host a student, please consider volunteering. 
Sunday, AprilS  Thursday, April 16  Thursday, April 23  
Monday, April6  Friday, April 17  Friday, April 24  
Tuesday, April 7  Saturday, April18  Saturday, April 25  
Wednesday, April 8  Sunday, April 19  Sunday, April 26  
EASTER BREAK  Monday, April 20  Monday, April27  
Wednesday, April 15  Tuesday, April 21  Tuesday, April 28  
Wednesday, April 22  Wednesday, April 2 9  

To respond, simply complete the bottom portion of this ad, check the day(s) that you would be available to host, clip this section from the paper and drop it off at the Admissions Office: 1 Grace Hall. If you would prefer, you may reply to Susan Joyce by e..mail: joyce.2@nd.edu or phone: 1..7505. Please respond by April 3. If you have any questions or concerns, please contact Susan Joyce. On behalf of the newest members of Notre Dame, we thank you very much for your enthusiasm and generosity. 
NAME: HoME STATE: CAMPUS ADDRESS: MAJOR: CAMPUS PHONE: £..MAIL ADDRESS: 

Tuesday, March 24, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 



1998 FINANCE FORUM 
The Notre Dame Finance Club welcomes 
**All undergraduate and MBA students are welcome to attend. 
Author speaks about diversity 
By ANNE HOSINSKI 
News Writer 
A challenge for all studenlo;; to 
accept the many facets of student 
diversity was raised in a lecture 
yesterday by Andy Evans, a 
speaker and author on issues of 
diversity among college students. 
Evans' lecture, sponsored by 
the College of Business 
Administration's diversity pro­
gram, was presented as replace­
ment for the regularly scheduled 
lecture by Lawrence Otis 
Grahmn, who could not attend 
:·or personal reasons. 
Titl~1d "Diversity Across College 
Campuses," Evans' lecture 
tocused primarily on learning to 
accept the Pssential differences 
found among the studPnt bodies 
of collPge campuses. 
Evans began thfl lecturp by 
speaking of his experiences dur­
ing the Vietnam war where he 
encountnred a new type of ethnic 
diversity. 
"Over there we knflw that the 
enemy spoke Vietnamese and we 
spokn English. It didn't matter 
what part of the country you 
were from or what accent you 
had. We fought together for a 
common purpose -against the 
enemy. We had a reason to sur­
vive and understand each other. 
"However, as soon as we stepped back on American soil, we lost that common purpose, and started to notice the differ­ences between us. This is the danger faced on college campus­es. We need to create the circum­stance where we can see differ­ences in each other and come together toward that common ground of understanding." 
Evans spoke of a leadership conference at Brown University 


ROBE 
as a model forum that strove suc­cessfully toward accepting 
·common issues. 
"At Brown University," Evans noted, "there are over 23 orga­nizations for minority stu­dents. The conference was a primary examples of students com­ing together to communi­cate about their issues and needs, rather than focusing on their differ­ences and individ ualiza­tion." The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
E v a n s 
"We need to create the circumstance where we can stressed the see differences in each other and come togethernecessity of toward that comrryon ground of understanding," said 
sitting and lis­Andy Evans last mght. 
tening to 
those who are different than your primary group of friends. He saw this as one important opportunity .to establish diversity on college 
campuses. 
"If you are not challenged on a 
college campus to seek out and 
learn from other ethnicities, 
there is something wrong 
because you will not get such an 
opportunity elsewhere." 
The key to accepting and pro­
moting diversity on college cam­
puses, Evans noted, is to open a line of communication transcend­ing racial lines. 
"Communication is progress. However, I don't think that progress will come from the top down, I think we have to come from the students up. 
"We need to talk more and dis­cuss to realize that diversity is part of the education process, and if you do not participate in this type of discussion, you are truly cheating yourself and your education," he said. 

page 7 
DNKto 


money in the form of conser­Plarz will tar­vation_ easements, or pay­mentsfor land for a limited purpos.e, to purchase develop· ment rights from sellers inter­ested in conserving their for, 
getp*rivately 
<:>wned land 

est property. 
The DNR holds the develop­, mentrights in perpetuity. " ln this way; the Department 
~"'+"-~-..._----'-'--....;;..._-: hopes to protect the value of 
1--.~~tfi._QJ,, 

'-'"''-''"' ., ... _. _qf forests, an invaluable natural · r4'i'pently resour<:e. to initiate · · "They help conserve energy 
ervation pro-in urban areas, provide recre-SJf.ltlt~itllca.Jiy· targeting ation opport~nities for our private grhwii)g population, and their 
· 

'THE PROGRAM-HELPS 
LANDOWNDERS ·•· fJROTEcr OUR ENVIRONMEN· 
J;t~LY l.!'fPORT~ f(}RESTSSOTHEYAREN~T TURNED 
•]#ISQ:tJilCE~>;rirRE~C'110~ 
.J· •...,. '[":, Legjlcy _st'li,~ Jbey wil1 select the site 

wher¢,they believe resource values t~:n~ _t~~. ~reat of devel­opmeritate g,t'~atest. •. 
After meeting the eligibility criteryt to, el!'r the program. landowners can·''protect their trees rather than have the nr,,... .,, ...., converted to non-for­accordingtO Fischer; 
aesthetic beauty enriches our 
~~c~lfn sst~t: 
d e s t a t e Forester 
Burrell Fischer said the DNR will implement the program in one of the seve.n-are&s applying f9.r Forest 
,,....-~ • t « 
Tuesday, March 24, 1998

page 8 The Observer • NEWS 
'Titanic' dominates Oscars 
Associated Press 
"Titanic" won nine awards and set its sights on a record­tying 11 Osears on Monday, while Jack Nicholson and llnlen Ilunt won best acting honors for "As Good As It G!~ts." 
The $200 million disaster epic and all-time box­

right up to here," he said, about 2 hours, 45 minutes into the show. 
Hunt, the only American competing against four British actresses in her cate­gory, won for playing a work­ing mother who reaches Nicholson's hard heart. 
"I'm here for one reason 
o!Ticn champion still had two nominations to go at the 70th Academy Awards show. But it lost a chance to win a record 12 Os<:ars when it fell short in three catogories: Hunt bnat Kate Winslet, Kim Basinger took sup­porting actress for "L.A. Conridential" over Gloria Stuart, and "Men in Black" claimed tho makeup prize.
Nicholson joined an Helen Hunt receives her Best Actress Award 
<'lite group of only four forherrolein"AsGoodAsltGets." 
pnrformors to own three or more Oscars, winning for his role as the anti-social writnr of romance novels who's softened by a waitress, played by Hunt, and a gay neighbor. Nicholson's other ()scars were as best actor for "One Flew Over the-cuckoo's Nest" in 1975 and supporting 
aetor  in  "Terms  of  
Endearment" in 1983.  
Katharine  Hepburn won  

four Academy Awards, and Ingrid Bergman and Walter Brennan eaeh won three. 
''I'm honored to be on any list with you, Bobby, Dusty, and you and your father Mr. Damon. and my old bikn pal, Fonda," Nicholson said, mak­ing the umpteenth joke of the night about fellow nominee Matt Damon and alluding to his long-ago eo-starring role in "Easy Hider." 
Nicholson joked about suf­fnring from doubt about whethnr he would win: "I had a sinking feeling all night, and that's Jim Brooks, one single reason, and that's the only reason really," Hunt said, citing the director of "As Good As It Gets," who wasn't nominated for an Oscar. 
Robin Williams won the supporting actor award as the bereaved psychology pro­fessor who counsels a trou­bled young genius in "Good Will Hunting." 
"Ah, man, this might be the one time I'm speechless," said Williams, known for his stream-of-consciousness humor. 
lie then managed to thank many, many people, including his young co-stars Matt Damon and Ben Affleck, quipping: "I still want to see some ID." 
Affleck and Damon won the best original screenplay Oscar, and Brian Helgeland and Curtis Hanson won the adapted screenplay award for 
~---­

e~ 11tew-r~~ 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the "98,'99 School Year and January '9.8. Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
:~mish~c~nttal.air-ifJeX1ble ~ J!.<~ 
•All utiltttes tnduded ·•Shuttle to cam· 

•
Indoor poollspa •M ·. c. • 27··•·2:: 


. ore tn•Q.
•Tennis, 
volleyball, & . .. , · .. .··f "** basketball courts •Mon,fri 9,S,Sat 1 9'3~ 

•24 
hour laundry ~. •Fax: 272..1461 Ji:•&~ 


I 


Christmas in April Benefit Run 
~ ~II# ~ Plus ~ Mile Wa\\C ~ ~ ~aturda), Mare-h 2$, 11:00 AM ~ ~tepan Center 

-

"L.A. Confidential." 
Basinger, the Veronica Lake look-alike/call girl in "L.A. Confidential," beat out "Titanic's" Stuart, who was a sentimental favorite after coming out of retirement at age 87 to play a centenarian survivor of the shipwreck. 
"If anyone has a dream out 
there, I'm living proof that it can come true," Basinger told the Shrine Auditorium audience. 
"Titanic" -which went into the night with a record-tying 14 nomina­tions " won for cine­matography, art direc­tion, film editing, cos­tume design, sound, sound editing, original dramatic score, visual effects and song. 
"Ben-Hur" keeps the record for most Oscars, having won 11 in 1959. "Titanic'"s 14 nomina­
tions tied the record set by 1950's "All About Eve." 
The three-hour, 14-minute romance set on the doomed luxury liner has already smashed box office records, overtaking "Jurassic Park" as the biggest moneymaker in movie history (adjusted for inflation), with more than $1.1 billion. It has also been No. 1 at the U.S. box office for an unprecedented 14 weekends in a row. 
"Titanic" director James Cameron shared in the film editing Oscar. 
"Honey, this is that thing I described to you," he said, addressing his 5-year-old daughter. 
"It's called an Oscar and it's really cool to get." The other contenders for best picture: 
• 
"L.A. Confidential" 

• 
"As Good As It Gets" 

• 
"Good Will Hunting" 

• 
"The Full Monty" 



SAN'A 
Five south Yemeni seces­sionists were condemned to 
death in absentia Monday at the end of a treason trial aris­. ing from the 1994 civil war. 
Foremost among those who would face the death penalty 
should hey return from exile are former Vice President Ali 
Salem al-Beidh, former prime mini!)ter Haidar AI-Attas. and 
the former governor of the southern city of Aden -which 
served aS a capital for the secessionists-Saleh 
Munassar al-$iyalli. The court convicted 13 men .of tr~ason and war crimes, 
•YEMEN 

Fi~.e,alleged traitors ;:·condemned to die 
handing down sentences rang­ing from three years to death, and found two others inno­cent. 
The case arose from the May 1994 rebellion when southern Ycmenis, led by al­Beidh, tried to break the i 990 agreement that had united the formerly Marxist-ruled South Yemen with the conservative, tribal-based North Yemen. 
After the short war, President Ali Abdullah Saleh proclaimed an amnesty for the rebels. but excluded those convicted Monday who were regarded as leaders of the insurrection. They now live in Saudi Arabia, Oman, Britain and Egypt. 
Nichols pleads for reduced sentence 
Associated Press any buildings or property any 
where at anytime." 
DENVEH The Daily Oklahoman and 
Terry Nichols has asked a fed-Tulsa World reported on the Iii­era! judge to not lock him up for • ing. life when deciding the sentence Nichols, 42, was convicted Dec. for his part in the Oklahoma City 23 of conspiracy and eight bombing, saying he never "want-counts of involuntary ed to kill or harm anyone." manslaughter in the bombing of 
"This may sound hollow and the Alfred P. Murrah Federal superficial to some but I am sin-Building, which resulted in 168 cere when I say that I would give deaths. He was acquitted of mur­my life if it would bring back all der and weapons-related those that died in the bombing, charges. especially the children," Nichols The jury deadloehd on said in a 16-page letter to U.S. whether death was the appropri­District Judge Richard Matseh. ate penalty. That leaves Nichols' 
The letter, dated March 10, sentence to Matsch. Nichols was filed Monday in U.S. District returns to court Wednesday for a Court. hearing to decide what guide­
"I never wanted to kill or harm lines Matsch will use in deter­
anyone or to damage or destroy mining the sentence. 
• 
I 
• 

--------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
• 

THE lPAN=AlFRllCAN CUL1rUK~AJL CEN1f'JEJR P~: 

by 

DR. ANTHONY MONTEIRO 
Professor of Sociology Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science Philadelphia, PA 
Saturday, March 28, 1998 at 2:00p.m. 
Hesburgh Library Lounge, University of Notre Dame 
CeleLrating W.E.B. DuBois' 1.30IL BirtLday AnniTersary 
reception follows 

Co-Sponsors: The Salon of l~riends!tip, Sttulent activities, Graduate Student Union, ND Black Alumni Association, St. Mary's College Modern Language Department, NAACP• 
Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
The Observer • NEWS page 9 
• SICILY 
Scared Mafia turncoat Boating accident takes four lives 
postpones testimony 
Associated Press 
vices reported. His lawyer, Ennio Tinaglia, was quoted as sayingPALERMO that Di Maggio would eventually
Two days after his brother was resume testifying.killed in Sicily in a clan vendetta, On Saturday, his brother, a leading Mafia turncoat refused Emanuele Di Maggio, 52, was to show up in court Monday to pumped full of bullets while 
testify in another case. going down a country road out­Baldassare Di Maggio sent a fax side Palermo, the latest relative 
to Palermo prosecutors saying he of the turncoat to be slain in didn't feel safe, Italian news ser-apparent revenge by rival clans. 
\Vhat to eat if 
you don't like hospital food. 

out Sunday, one official said. arrested Sunday afternoon andPolice arrest The accident occurred about booked for boating while six miles north of Hoover Dam on impaired after the boat hit anoth­driver for the Arizona side of the lake, er while leaving a marina, said which stretches for 110 miles David Pfiffner, a supervisingalong the Arizona-Nevada line. game warden for the Nevada
being impaired 
The 4 7 -foot boat was going Division ofWildlife. between 50 mph and 60 mph Pfiffner, who made the arrest,
Associated Press 

when it ran aground about mid­said the man worked for Elite night, said Steve Johnson a Marine, a Las Vegas company
LAKE MEAD NATIONAL 
spokesman for the Mohave that had just sold the boat and
RECREATION AREA, Ariz. 
County Sheriffs Office. It wasn't was taking the new owner for aA speedboat going at least 50 
found until late Monday morning. test run.
mph slammed into the shore 
All of those aboard the boat were Pfiffner said he didn't know the early Monday on Lake Mead in from Las Vegas, Johnson said. No name of the man, whom hefar northwestern Arizona, killing 
names were released as of turned over to Clark County
four people and seriously injuring Monday evening. authorities. He said that manthree others, authorities said. 
Two women and two men were wasn't aboard the boat when itA man operating the boat hours 
killed, according to Karen crashed.
before the accident was arrested Whitney, a National Park Service Lake Mead, which is formed onand removed for boating while spokeswoman in Boulder City, the Colorado River by mammothimpaired, but authorities said Nev. Three men were in serious Hoover Dam, is a magnet forthey hadn't determined whether condition at University Medical recreational boaters. It is 110alcohol was a factor in the crash. 
Center, a hospital spokeswoman miles long and covers 550 square The boat had just been sold to said. 
miles -twice the size of Rhode another man, who was trying it 
A man driving the boat was Island. 
New drug could cure cancer 
Associated Press 

The problem with injecting such drugs directly into a tumor instead is that they are rapidly washed away 
NEWPORT BEACH, Calif. by blood circulation. Hard-to-treat cancerous tumors have proved vul­
Scientists have studied getting around that problem nerable to a treatment that encases a drug in a in a number of ways. For example, a surgicallysyrupy mixture to keep the medicine working instead implanted wafer that slowly leaks a drug is used toofletting it leak away. 
treat some brain cancers. 
The technique also requires far smaller doses than Garewal described another solution Monday at a patients usually need, so it avoids side effects like conference sponsored by the American Cancer nausea. 
Society. He and colleagues treated patients with a So far the strategy has been used mostly with mix of the standard drug cisplatin, the blood-vessel tumors in the mouth and throat, but it might also constrictor epinephrine, and a syrupy liquid that gets work against cancers in the liver and recurrences of about as thick as honey when it reaches body tem­breast tumors, said Dr. Harinder Garewal of the 
perature.

Arizona Cancer Center in Tucson. 
The idea is that when this mixture is injected into a Anti-cancer drugs are normally injected into the tumor, the epinephrine restricts blood flow out of the bloodstream. But that means they circulate through tumor and the honey-like gel holds onto the cisplatin. 
the body and affect normal tissue, so doctors have to As the gel breaks down, the cisplatin slowly leaks out, limit doses to hold down side effects. 
remaining highly concentrated in the tumor. 
...... Watch for these upcoming events..... . 3Jnternational jfilm jfestibal: 3/24 (TUES) EXOTICA 3/35 (WED) RIDICULE 3/26 (THURS)-ANGELS & INSECTS FREE ADMISSION; ALL SHOWS BEGIN AT 8 PM; CUSHING 3-D Movie: It Came From Outer Space 3/26 [thurs] .....10:30 pm 3/27 [fri] and 3/28 [sat] .....8:00 and 10:30 pm Admission: $2.00.....Cushing Auditorium  

page 10 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
Clinton begins African trip 
Associated Press 
ACCRA. Ghana 

Buoyed by the biggest crowd of his presidency, President Clinton hailed "the new face of Africa" and its growing ptmce, prosperity and democracy as he operwd a historic six­
nation tour on Monday 
McCurry said Clinton While poverty and was worried about the 
war still trouble parts people in front beingof the continent, injured.Clinton said Fights broke out in the Americans must shake crowd over scarce bot­off "the stereotypes tles of water. Police and 
that have warped our military securityview and weakened whipped people with 
our understanding of President belts and canes to keepAfrica." Clinton order. Thousands of peo­
intense heat brought problems. Crowds surged toward Clinton to shake his hand, endangering people pressed against metal barriers. An obviously alarmed Clinton waved crowds to stop, and he shouted, "Back up! Back
,.. 
up. Spokesman Mike 
Dictatorships have fallen in many countries, Clinton said, and half of the 48 nations of sub-Saharan Africa now have elected governments. Where business was once stilled, "now Africans are embracing eco­nomic reform," the president said on a mission to applaud political reforms and open the door for U.S.-Afriean trade. 
Clinton's message was almost lost to a few seconds of dramat­ic video that showed him being jostled by an enthusiastic crowd. 
After waiting for hours in tem­peratures that hovered near 100 degrees, the massive crowd roarnd at the sight of Clinton in 
Independence Square, a sprawling parade ground along­side the Gulf of Guinea. 
Clinton's press secretary said the audienee was "the largest he's seen as president, maybe one of the largest any American president has ever seen." 
But the huge turnout and 
ple drifted away from the square as the ceremony droned on. 
Accra, once an Atlantic port for slave traders, was the gate­way for Clinton's 12-day, 21,000-mile journey to Ghana, Uganda, 
Rwanda, South Africa, Botswana and Senegal. Over the course of the trip, he will spend about 42 hours on Air Force One. 
Clinton's journey is the longest foreign trip of his presi­dency and the first time an American president has visited any of the six countries on his trip map. 
"It is a journey long overdue," the president said. 
"I want to build a future part­nership between our two people and I want to introduce the peo­ple of the United States through my trip to the new face of Africa." 
Sitting in oversized wing chairs under an umbrella pro-
CWe fove ~ou, 0\\.om& (_Dad  
The WoJtney~•·...,J.I.;.,..... ~· Res(Q)uurce Ce:·~te will be havin W\eetin9 to~ig 3/24 at 8:00 the elev on the 2nd ~o LaFo~+ ,~, .·.· All a~e welc Ref,.eshme~  

tecting them from the midday sun, Clinton and President Jerry Rawlings of Ghana watched dancers in native costumes move to the pounding of African drums. Rawlings has held power since a military coup in 1981. He has run in two elec­tions, winning easily both times. He assured Clinton that Ghana is committed to freedom and justice and in terms of trade is "ready and able to do business in today's liberalized and com­petitive market place." 
"Africa is not going to be found wanting as we approach the 21st century," said Rawlings. 
Land mine treaty may take effect in July 

,. . ·:·:·:>·::· 

Associated p Williams was attending a two­
day conference in Ottawa that 
OTTAWA. Ont. has attracted delegates from 34 
An intern!ttonal treaty ban-countries to discuss implement­
ni J:t:tli!S could go into ing the treaty. · as this summer, Canada's foreign minister,
Prize winner Jody Lloyd Axworthy, told delegatesWilliams said Monday. progress can be made quickly,
Williams. a leader of the despite the scope of the global
l:t:tternational Campaign to Ban land mine problem. Estimates Land Min · · said at least 40 range from 60 million to 100 
countri tify the treaty million mines in the groundbyJu #i worldwide. 
More 20 countries "Those working in the field 
signed the han in Ottawa, but are now talking in terms of 
the treaty does not take effect years, not decades, to break the until 40 signatot'les ratify it in back of the problem," Axworthy 
their nation~lc:~gislatures. said. 
CLAS o I 8 

ENIOR FELLOW AWAR 
prof or faculty member who has made a contribution to our class 
~®U'J\0~110®~~ ~®W [3~0~(§ £~~~[;)11~® 
DUE FRIDAY APRIL 3rd 
il: dass.of.1998@nd.edu Campus Mail: 213 LaFu 


Meeting for Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Students Group 
Today, Tuesday, March 24, 1998 For thne and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. To1n Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are prhtate and confidential. 
-~ --­
--------------r-------~----~~-------------------~ 
Tuesday, March 24, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page I I 
• GREAT BRITAIN 
Iraq threatens anthrax attack, U.K. ports on alert 
Associated Press 
LONDON 

Britain's air and sea ports have been put on alert to the threat of deadly anthrax being smuggled into the country by Iraq, the prime minister's office said Monday. 
The all-ports warning follows a threat by Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to llood Britain with the toxin disguised inside "duty free" bottles of alcohol, cosmetics, cigarette lighters and perfume sprays, according to a report Tuesday in The Sun, a tabloid newspaper. 
The alert was issued March 18, the same day a British intel­ligence document revealed an Iraqi plot to smuggle large quantities of anthrax into "hos­tile countries," the Sun said. 
Prime Minister Tony Blair's office confirmed that the docu­ment on which The Sun's story is based is authentic. It did not confirm the date of the alert. 
A Blair spokeswoman, speak­ing on customary condition of anonymity, also confirmed that the government had circulated an all-ports warning, but said there was ··no evidence that this plot has been implemented, sim­ply that a threat may have been made." 
"Obviously that has to be taken seriously, but we do not believe there is cause for 
alarm," she said. The U.S. 
'IDON'T THINK WE WANT

S t a t e Department TO GET PEOPLE PARTICU-
had no com-LARLY SCARED ON THIS ment late 
Monday on OCCASION•••• I DON'T THINK 
w h e t h e r IT IS A PARTICULAR THREAT America was also a target. TO BRITJ\IN.' 
Anthrax is a deadly bacte-MIKE O'BRIEN ria that nor­mally afflicts HOME OFFICE MINISTER appealed for calm, saying that authori­ties were ready to deal with it. 
"I don't think we want to get people particularly 
scared on this occasion," he said. "There are stepsbeing taken, 
animals, but the organism can we are very good at dealing be used as a weapon by releas-with these things and those ing spores into the air. steps will be taken in coopera-
Earlier this year, the United tion with other countries. I don't States and Britain had threat-think it is a specific threat to ened military strikes against Britain." Iraq over Baghdad's refusal to The alert was prompted by a allow inspectors to examine sus-source who spoke to intelligence pected weapons sites, including in Baghdad, The Sun reported. chemical weapons facilities. The document calls for extra 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi vigilance by customs and min­Annan last month negotiated an istry of defense officers and 

Alternathte Medicine: Past, Present & Future 
Weds. March 25th 180 NSH 7:00pm 
Discussing the Status & Future ofAlternative Medicine 
warns that "Iraq may launch a chemical and biological attack using material disguised as harmless fluids," the newspaper said. 
Former U.N.-weapons inspec­tor Col. Terry Taylor stressed how difficult it would be·for ter­rorists to deliver anthrax in a form that would be dangerous. 
"If it was really being sent like this, in bottles, it's quite difficult to alive and to it out in a form that might actually kill somebody," he said. 

He also stressed how unlikely it would be that many people would be affected even if anthrax was sent over in bot­tles. 
"It would only affect the per­son opening the bottle and pos­sibly people nearby. It's not something that would kill hun­dreds of thousands of people," he said. 
e rumounc:ement followed reports that gold that 

end to the standoff with Saddam, averting the strikes. 
Home Office Minister Mike O'Brien said in a televised inter­view that intelligence about a possible terrorist chemical threat was a regular event. He 
lit(h +ha1ct bi~en tolobed ti:om Jews. 
· ossihility that the gold len from Jewish own-
allQt §tl; rul~d 9\it. it 
s . .... 
Half of the money is to go to tbeWorld Jewish Res'titution Organization, whichbilnefits Bolocaust survivors. The other half to go to Match of the 
which pays_ fot.Jewish cone~ntration camp 

public tele­_ to possess microfilms oi documents 
\§bowing that during Wotld War II, each bank accepted gold looted by Nazis. 
Gold taken from Holocaust 
·victims -···•---··in some eases; even dental fillings _.:... was melted down and deposited into the NaZi ,Rei~hsbank, according to a U.S; report last May. 
Happy 21st 8irth.day! 
Love, Mom&Dad 


A REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE AVAILABLE AT THE CSC WED., MARCH 25 12-9 p.m AND THURS., MARCH 26 FROM 8 a.m. -NOON 
PLEASE STOP BY TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE A V PROGRAM! 
WE WILL HOLD AN. 
INFORMATION SESSION AT THE CSC AT 7 p.m. ON MARCH 25 
Apostolic Volunteers (708) 524-5984 maryanop@aol. com WWW. Sinsinawa. org 


VIEWPOINT
page 12 Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME 0FI'JCE: 1'.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 63I-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heath« Cocks MANAGING ElliTOR BUSINESS MANAGER !Irian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heath<r MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR . . ..... Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER .....Kris Klein VwWPOINT EDITOR ...................Eddie Llull An DESIGN MANAGER.... . .............. Bren Hudat SPORTS ElliTOR .. . ......... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ......... Michael Brouillet ScENE Ell !TOR,..... . ........... Sarah Dylag WEB AnMINISTRATOR ................. jennifor Breslow 
Krisri Klitsch CONTROI.l.t:R.. .............•..•.. Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S ElliTOR ............ Shannon Ryan l'wrro ElliTOR . . .......... Kevin Dalum 
'I"he ()h~ervcr li d1c 111JcpcnJcm ncw~papt:r puhli!>he..! hy the: student~ nf the University of Notre Dame du l.ac J.nd Saint M.uy'" ( :nllege. It dne!> not nec~l>.Jrily reflect the poli<.·ies of the .tdministratinn of ~irhcr institutio~. Th~ llt."WS is tcpnrleJ ol.\ oU.:(ut,lldy anJ objcctivdy .L\ possible, U!~.!iign~J ~lt\lriafs rr:prc.<.ent th~ opuu?n of the m.JJorHy of the l~lrwr-m-Chtd. M"n.tgmg Fdicor, AtSi.Ha:nr M.m.rgmg hi1tor and dc:p.mnu:m cd1roo. CHmmcnranes, lcrccr.~ omd l.:"n!umm. prcsc111 the views of.the .tml10rs, and not ncc~~.trily thusc ofTh~ Observer. Vit."":point .o.pac~ is av~il~blc ln all member.<. uf the: Nntrc ();~.mc/Si!inr Mary's (;ommunity and to all ri:'.J.Jers. I'hc free <.·xpress1on of vary1ng optnlons 
dunu~h lcttc:r.i '' l'Ju.:nur01.gcd. 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Ch<cf 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Mana~ing Editor/A~sisrant ME 63J-4S41 Advcrtbing 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 6.~1-532J Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-454.1 Fax 631-6927 Sccnc//Saint Marv'~ 631-4'i40 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @lnd.edu Ilay Ediror!Yicwi;oim 631-5303 Ad E-Mail ob.<.ervc.-r@darwin.cc.nd.cdu ()ftke Manag.cr/<.lcncr;d Information G.il-7471 News E-Mail obsciVcr.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
H~R~S MY PLAN: 
F\RSTWE W\N 
TH£ JACKPOt.. 

• SHADES Of GRAY 
Discovery of Moon Water Raises Not-So-Serious Questions 
SOUTII BEND (l>issoeiatml l'rnss)-A South Bend newspa­per's recent article eone(~rning water on the moon has sparknd a nationwidP debate. 
:=================:== 
Earlier this 
month, scientists announced that an American space-
Isaac 
craft had found relatively large amounts of frozen water on the
Ruiz 
moon. In a reac­tion story, the 

---------===============:________ 
newspaper asked. 
local residents for their thoughts on the discovery. 
"Everybody's real excited about the water," responded one man who wished to rnmain anonymous. "I can't wait to cat some moon fish." 
The man, dubbed John O'Doe by tlie media, and his state­ment lie at the center of what has beeome the latest scandal to taint the Clinton presidency. 
In a brinf but forceful statement. the president yesterday denind any role in any moon-fish cover-up. "I never told any­body to lie, not a single time, never. These allegations are false, and I need to go back to work for the American people. Thank you." 
But the president's denial has not satisfied opponents, who arc demanding that the Attomcy General appoint a special prosecutor to investigate the moon-fish scandal. "The American people arc going to rise in revolt when our fisher­men lose their jobs because we're getting all of our fish from the moon," said Pat Buchanan. 
Some Hepublicans in the Senate have yet to announce their position on the issue. Yesterday, debate on important health­care legislation was suspended as senators and their legisla­tive aides flipped through Bibles, looking for any reference to moon fish. 
The controversy surrounding the discovery of water on the moon has caught the academic community by surprise. "Usually, what we do is attach '-gate' to the scandal, and that's the name we give to it," observed one professor. "But if you add '-gate' to 'water,' you get Watergate, and that name's alnmdy taken." 
At the Vatican, ollicials were asked for a statement regard­ing the moon-water scandal. "We should have something for you in lilly years," said a spokesman. 
Meanwhile, People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals, PETA. in a statement made by live nude supermodels, expressed concern about moon-fishing techniques. "We refuse· to support moon fishing until the industry develops methods that are safe to moon dolphins." 
But there are those who say they can never support the industry. In a letter to students, the University of Notre Dame said, "While we are called upon to love our moon fish-eating brothers and sisters, we cannot condone such conduct." 
All of the bad press has prompted moon-fish companies to hire a spokesperson. A thin-again Anna Nicole Smith appeared on weekend news programs promoting moon iish as part of a low-fat, balanced diet. 
"What we're seeing here is the product of a vast, chicken­wing conspiracy," Smith said. "Poultry companies are afraid they'll lose business once the moon lish industry takes off." 
Asked if she's seen the moon lish, Smith said, "Yes, they look just like regular iish, but they're bigger. I mean, they're 
BIG." 

'INEVER TOLD ANYBODY 
TO LIE, NOT A SINGLE TIME, NEVER. THESE ALLE­GATIONS ARE FALSE, AND I NEED TO GO BACK TO WORK 
FOR THE AMERICAN PEOPLE. THANK YOU.' 
PRESIDENT BILL CLINTON 
"moon-fish lixation" evil. On Wall Street, the value of Disney stock increased by 25 percent. This fall, NASA is sending a team of civilians, representing a cross-section of the public to form the first moon colony on the beaches of the moon ocean. The Notre Dame community has expressed its desire to make one of its own a space pioneer. 
Students have planned a "Send Jim Colletto to the moon" rally for today. 
Isaac Ruiz is aflrst-year law student and a pathological liar. E-mail him at isaac.ruiz.l3@nd.edu. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Yes they are. 

So big that Disney is planning a full-length ani­mated feature about the moon lish. or course, in the movie, the moon fish will be moon mermaids. "We think the kids will learn a lot," said a Disney press release. But not if 
their parents are Southern Baptists. In Atlanta yester­day, a convention of 
Southern Baptists renewed their boycott against Disney, calling Disney's 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
University 
AjJplauded ... 
This Time 
1 have always been critical of the way the Notre Dame administration handles tho campus music scene. The lack of a suitable performance venue and an inadequate entertainment budget have prevented mul­titudes of big-name artists from performing at Notre Dame, while the elimination of the Loft series in the Lafortune Ballroom has expunged indie-Iabel shows. Stamper Bob and Umphrey's McGee were both banned from a:dvertising on campus boeause their posters weren't properly placed on University-approved bulletin boards. I've come to realize that ND students are eheat­ed by such administrative blunders, and their musical education is limited to the twelve songs they play on U93. 
Last Friday night, I was part of something I never thought I'd experience at ND: a campus musical festival that was a rousing success. This year's NAZZ restored my hope in music at Notre Dame. As a campus band veteran of the past three years. I have never taken part in such a fabulous produc­tion. The Alumni-Senior Club was filled to capacity with talented musicians, first rate promoters, and most importantly, an enor­mous crowd of students who sincerely appreciated the diverse talent displayed to them. rt was an honor to perform for such a receptive group, and everyone who came out to support the bands has my sincere gratitude. Japplaud Student Union Board for putting together such a phenomenal production, and strongly encourage them to set up more on-campus performances in the future. I'm sure all ofthe student bands that put in countless hours would jump at the chance to resurrect Notre Dame's musi­cal life. 
Matt Butte!, Stomper Bob Senior, Off-Campus March 21, 1998 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

• fiUOTE Of THE DAY 
"!refuse to believe that 
trading recipes is silly. 
Tuna fish casserole is at 
least as real as corporate 
stock." 
-Barbara Grizzuti Harrison 

VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 24, 1998 page 13 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Father David Garrick Should Still be Here 
Priest was a Friend and Confidant 
Thursday's lead story about the resig~ nation of Father David GarriCk sur­prised rne for two reasons, FiJ:St ofall. it surprised me to learn that Father Garrick, who was one of my professors last semester, was homosexual. The question ofhis sexuality was neyer addressed in our class last semester, but the realization would have made no more difference to me then, than it does now. I have always been fairly lib". eraI. and while I am certainly not gay myself. I have never had problems with those who were. The second aspect of the article which surprised me was just how narrow'-minded and homophobic · this campus really is. Well, administra­tion of the University ofNotre Dame, .let me tell you a little story about the .ll1an who was driven out of ajpb })yyour · · ignorance. 
Last semester, my life was a Wreck. I had received a scholarship to come here, and it was the only way my par­ents could afford to send me to college. The terms of my scholarship; however. required that I maintaina<3,0 grade point average..! had bee~studying for a particular test for a week, arid after f .. failed the test, my G.P.A. dropped down to 2.5. I was certain that my scholar~ ship was gone. On top of that. Jwas ... miserable with my social life; I bad just gone through an extremely painful rejection, I was having difficulties with my parents, and,.my self-ima.gewa~. dirt. I was seriously considering trans­ferring back to a state school and putting this entire university behind 
rne. 
And then Father Garrick talkedtome. 
On the day of a particularly bad test;he 
noticed that I was visibly upset and he 
took me out into the hall after class and 
talked to me for over 30 minutes.. He 
listened to my problems. He prayed 
with mei He gave me encourag~~ent; 
He gave me suggestions, He gaye me 
hope. He told methat ifJdfd }()se my 
scholarship, he would some.QJ)W find a 
way for me to still attend Notre Dame. 
And so I stuck with it.Andthings got 
better. My social life is still. nothil'lg tq 
brag about, but I'vemanaged tobring 
my G.P.A. up to a 3.4, which will keep 
my scholarship, and I am definitely 
planning to attend Notre Dame next 
year. I think it is fairly safe to say that 
Father Garrick changed my life for the 
better. 
Which makes me wonder whythe 
University felt that Father Garrick was 
such a terrible professor. I could tell 
you some stories about the other pro· 
fessors I have had these last two semes­
ters-professors who cann(>t rem.efu~ 
ber any of their students' names, pro~ 
fessors who do not care when nobody 
shows up for their classes, and ptl'>fes'­
sors who are perfectly happy to Jet their 
students fail. rather than helping them 
learn -but l doubt it would help. I 
could tell you that Father Garrickis 
quite possibly the best teacher I have 
ever had, hut I don't think that would 
make a difference either. No, I think it 
is already too late. I think that the pol~­
cy-makers and paper-pushersofNotre 
Dame arefar too closed-minded;imma~ 
ture, and archaic to accept what every 
other University in the country has ·.. 
already realized -that homosexual,ity.. 
is only one part of a person's lif~. an.d it 
is not even close to being the most · 
important one, 
It is slightly iron.k that. the troj}t page 
of the paper also contained anarticl~, 
questioning why Notre Dameis not qne...·· 
of the top ten c()lleges In the natiotl. I .• 
believe thatthe .ans'\>Veri t~ .~his ~i.t¢J~~6n'·· 
can be found onthevery.s~mc;Jp~g• 
A Call to Non-Discrimination 
Last year, with a grass-roots effort that culminated in an April 24 rally at the Dome, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students, alumni and faculty alike called for a change. We urged the administration of this school to address the policy that omits sexual orientation from DuLac's official non-discrimination clause. In our strug­gles last spring to bring the issue of non-discrimination to the forefront of this University's consciousness, we were often asked if we really believed that discrimination of this kind went on at Notre Dame. It was hard for people to believe that anyone would break the as yet written "Spirit of Inclusion." With his protest-through-resigna­tion, Father David Garrick has given the Notre Dame community a harsh reminder that any spirit can be bro­ken. 
I did not get enough chances to meet Father Garrick. On the handful of occasions that I did hear him speak, I was struck by the power and inspiration of his words. Father Garrick was a vocal contributor at the open forums and panel discussion sponsored by the University of Notre Dame College Democrats last spring. He is a true champion of justice and I applaud his efforts and wish him the best of luck in the future. Notre Dame will truly miss him. 
Father Garrick did leave the door open for his return, however, if the administration is willing to amend its poli­cies. In his own words, "You never know where this story will end." Will the administration slam that open door in his face? Will it continue to turn its back on Catholic teaching by refusing to specifically enumerate basic human rights to all members of the Notre Dame commu­nity regardless of sexual orientation? These are the ques­tions that must be asked of our administration. The "Spirit of Inclusion" letter was most definitely a step in the right direction, but this episode with Father Garrick makes it all too clear that further steps must be taken. We know this is a sensitive issue and that there are seri­ous legal ramifications in amending the non-discrimina­tion clause, but how long are the officers of this University willing to continue to stonewall the concerns of its students and faculty? How many more individuals of 
the caliber of Father David Garrick will we have to lose until something is done? Assuredly, as an organization intensely concerned with human rights, the Notre Dame College Democrats will continue to further the issue of non-discrimination on this campus. I urge all students 
with similar concerns to do the same. 
Keven Larkin President, University of Notre Dame College Democrats Sophomore, Siegfried Hall Monday, March 23, 1998 
Alisistant Chairman, f?epattmem ofTheology triday. Mat<;h:40.l?98 

The Truth Will set us Free 
As a Notre Dame alumna living in South Bend, I have had occasion to hear Father David Garrick preach. I found his message eloquent. It was presented beautifully. I am sorry I did not get to hear more of his homi­lies, but I find it hard to believe that there would be many complaints. After all, he received a quality Notre Dame education (class of 1966). And as a \.ommunication and Theatre professor, he is employed by this University to teach people the art of public expression. Isn't it a para­dox, then, that a "poor preaching" charge would be brought against him? I just don't buy it. 
It is more plausible to believe what Father Garrick says: that he was ostracized for being an openly gay priest. I am appalled that Father Garrick would be forced from his ministry to such an extent that he felt resignation was his only option. However, 
I am suspicious of the "spin" that Dennis Moore, University Director of Public Relations, appears to be applying to the story. On behalf of the University, Moore stated that it was the Congregation of the Holy Cross which stifled Father Garrick. But Campus Ministry operates Sacred Heart-not the Congregation. What is Moore's reason for distancing Campus Ministry from Father Garrick's resignation in this matter? Could it have to do with the University's decision to adopt the unenforceable "Spirit of Inclusion" rather than to change the non-discrimination clause to include sexual orientation and legally protect people like Father Garrick? 
~t 
The irony in it all is that the message which I heard from Father Garrick was that Jesus knew very well that power would be a sinful cor­rupting temptation within His Church. Father Garrick explained with biblical analogies how Christ set an example of servitude for his disci­
' pies to follow. It strikes me that His example is not being followed here at Notre Dame. 
r) 
The fact of Father Garrick's resignation and the implication that either Campus Ministry or the Congregation is behind this is a shameful event for Notre Dame. In the name of decency, and as an alumna, I want to know the truth behind this matter. Who gave the order that Father 
/ / 

Garrick no longer be allowed to preach in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart? That individual should have the integrity to come forward with their evidence of "poor preaching." 
Elizabeth M. Karle '85 South Bend, Indiana Monday, March 23, 1998 

t5t 


page 14 --------------------~OBSERVER ---------------Tuesday, March 24, 1998 


•

Farley Hall Players give a lesson tn Greek mythology 
By REBECCA N. MITSCH 
Scene Writer 
Tlw Farley llall Players presented Eurip11dns' production of "IIPinn" last Friday and Saturday nights in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
Arter holding University-wide audi­tions. the Farley llall Players mnbarked on two months of rehearsal bnfore their debut performanen. 
Dit'el:tlld by l.aricll Woods, thP. pro­duction is an interpretation of Euripedns' dassie, written around 412 
B.C.. during the Grecian Golden Age. The play is a defense of lielen of Troy. whom history and many myths blame for the cause of the Trojan Wars. 
Several stories and interpretations have been usml to explain what actual­ly happennd to llelen. Euripedes' inter­prPtation maintains that it is the work of thn gods, namnly llnra, that brought about a SllCOIHI IIPlen to take the place of the true llelen of Troy, who was to be exiled in Egypt. Tlw story centers around Ill~ Ien·s misfortunes and her ability to ultimately take control of her own destiny. 
In an attempt to bring a Greek classic to life for a modern audience, the east and crew were constantly learning about elassical Greek society and the text they were using. 
According to Joseph Joy (Menelaus}. everyone was involved in "keeping up with Greek practices, society, and pro­nunciation." lie felt that this way, tho portrayal of Greek tragedy would bring to life a beautiful language and culturn that is "not just decorative, but useful." 
The anti-war message resounds throughout 'and is especially highlight­ed in the discourses of the chorus. According to Woods, the message to be conveyed is that the Trojan Wars "were fought because the people want­ed to fight, not because of Helen or some great cause." 
The chorus, comprised of women slaves taken during battle, understand the true nature and tragedy that war has brought them. They lament thPir lost freedom caused by war and identi­fy with the suffering Helen must bear because people believe her to be the cause of the Trojan Wars. 
Woods says she attempted to portray 

strong women charaeters even though "in situations of war, people don't real­ly have the power to make all the choices affecting their lives." 
For Helen, the invocation of fate and fortune has created a situation which she apparently has no control over ­being exiled in the land of Egypt and being forced into a marriage with Theoclymenus (Quincy Gerard Starnes). Yet, despite the hand dealt her, Helen proves her strength of char­acter and adds a feminist slant to the production. 
"Euripedes liked strong women; not pathetic or pitiful ones." said Kelly Steele (Helen). 
When her true husband Menelaus is shipwrecked in Egypt, Helen comes to understand the truth of the situation, and she devises a scheme to ensure a safe escape. In an amusing comment Helen adds that she may devise the plan if "even a woman may utter words of wisdom." 
;a::=
~ 
ful rendition of a classic, although there was some difficulty in undfn·­standing dialogue. 
"TIHl portrayal of llelnn was diffieull to understand at times. which detract­ed from the overall presentation," said Notre Damn student Sarah Doorlny. 
However. most audience imprnssions wnrn favorable. 
One viewer. Sarah Furge. responded that she enjoyed seeing the ;u:ting rather than just reading tlw classic, as is done in her Greek Classics in Translations elass. She also comment­ed that the simplicity of the set and costumes was well done and citnd the chorus as a highlight of the drama. 
"[The chorus I was well portrayed and used an echoing technique that reinforced the emotion of thn situa­tion," said Furge. 
"The depiction of the gods was inter­esting. as well as their influence on the fate of charactr~rs," added Doorlny. 
Doorley also found it striking that "individuals could overcome a seem­ingly hopeless situation. as in llclnn's captivity, and take control of their own fate." 
Tragedy arrives at Notre Dame ... 
Left top: Joseph Anthony Joy, as Menelaus, receives a message in Euripedes' "Helen" which was performed this past weekend by the Farley Hall Players in the LaFortune .. Ballroom. 
Left bottom: Kelley Steele, as Helen, and John Castellarin, as Teuces, embrace in a dramatic moment. 
Below: Steele and Joy meet again after much time has passed in the play "Helen." 
The Observer photos/Monica Garza 
.. 
page 15 

Photos courtesy of the Southold Dance Theater 
Above: Members of the Southold Dance Theater of South Bend perform "Awakening," a modern ballet dance. In this dance, the members pay tribute to influential figures of modern dance. Below: The dance company performs "Swan Lake," a classical ballet performed to the music of Tchaikovsky. 
SOUTHOLD DANCES ITS WAY TO CAMPUS 
By SARAH DYIAG Scene Editor 
Thn Southold Dance Theater's company of 22 apprentice dancers. including two snniors from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, will present its DanceSpring 98 on March 28 and 29 at the Moreau Center for the Arts on the Saint Mary's campus. 
Featuring three works -"Swan Lake, Aet II," "Awakening" and "Seinn 0!" ­the company's annual spring show will showcase different dance styles, music and themes and will include guest artists from the Jofl'rey Ballet of Chicago. 
In "Swan Lake, Act II," the guest artists from the Joffrey Ballet will perform the lead roles of Odetter and Prince Siegfried and members of the Southold Dance compa­ny will dance the roles of thn 12 swan maid­ens. The gunst artists will also perform a Russian pas de deux called "Spring Waters." 
"It's a classical ballet and I'm really excited to dance in it," said Maryann Schwoyer, a senior at Saint Mary's, who will dance as one of the big swans. 
"Awakening" will pay trib­ute to American modern dance pioneers including Ruth St. Denis, Ted Shawn and Martha Graham, and will feature the music of American com­poser Aaron Copland. The entire compa­ny will participate in this part of the show. 
"It's a modern piece and it's really fun," said Schwoyer. "There's also going to be some really cool video effects in the back­ground. It's a change from the classical, regimented piece." 
"Seinn 0!" is a contemporary ballet choreographed by Jill Engel Tulchinsky and featuring Mouth Music, a music group singing in an ancient Gaelic dialect meant for dancing. 
Jennifer Gorman. a Notre Dame senior, will dance as one of the four little swans in "Swan Lake, Act II," in several pieces from "Awakening," and as the lead female role in "Seinn 0!" 
Gorman, who has been dancing since high school, has studied with the Southold company since her freshman year. 
"I knew Southold was here when I visit­ed campus before freshman year," she said. "I danced a lot in high school, but I knew to dance in college, you usually have 
0 major in it. Southold was perfect because I could still take dance class outside of college." 
In high school, Gorman performed with the Idaho Dance Theater at Boise State University and since her freshman year she has danced in one other Southold Spring show and two of the company's annual Nutcracker performances. 
"I had plans to dance freshman year, but couldn't because I was injured," she explained. "Then junior year I didn't par­ticipate as much because I spent a semes­ter in Spain." 
This year, however, Gorman has prac­ticed with the company at least 15 hours per week. On Mondays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, rehearsals last three hours and on Saturdays, the company practices between five and eight hours. 
"It's even more when we rehearse for Nutcracker," said Gorman. "Then it's at least 15 hours a week for three months." 
Schwoyer, who has been dancing since she was 10-years old, has also been involved with Southold since her fresh­man year. 
"I had a sister who was here two years earlier and when my par­ents came to visit they saw an article in The Observer about Southold," she explained. "I knew I wanted to continue dancing in college and I wanted to find a way to 
study biology and still continue dancing." 
Schwoyer has danced in every Southold show since her fresh­man year. She has auditioned with various compa­nies to continue danc­
ing professionally after graduation. "I might dance with a 
professional company," she said. ''I'm in the process of audi­
tioning, but I'm also waiting to hear from different grad schools. Either way, I know I will always continue to dance." 
· The March 28 DanceSpring 98 show will begin at 8 p.m and will last approxi­mately two hours. The March 29 show, designated as the Family Concert, will begin at 2 p.m., and will be a shorter ver­sion so that families with smaller children can bring them to the show. 
The company will also perform DanceSpring 98 on March 27 at 10 a.m. and noon in its annual Spring Youth Concert. 
Vincent Smith, "WAITING," 1968 
Oil and sand on canvas (37 1/4 x 31 1/4 inches) Purchased with funds provided by the Humana Foundation Endowment. 
'Waiting' 
reflects '60s culture 
ByJOEllE FARMER Scene Wrirei 
Unlesson tt required field trip, few students 
take advantage of the worldofart on campus; 
within the wa,Us ofthe Snite Museum of Art lie 
numerous works which go unnoticed by most. 
On the west wall ofthe second floor atrium 
hangs the painting "Waiting" byVincent 
Smith, one which notonly invites the viewer to 
relax and lose themselves in the small work. 
butto reflect on the social statements Smith 
makes while exploring various techniques 
within his medium. 

Painted in 1968, the hard faces ofthe figures 
in "Waiting" express the harshness ofthe 
1960sfor African Americans. Smith's choice of 
colors reflects the racism inherent in this peri­
od in a dramatic manner, as the darkness of 
the people's skin contrasts against their bright 
clothing and the sign hanging outside the 
office. His dark and somber colors emphasize 
the seriousness of the work. 
Depicted in this painting are three black fig. 
ures standing outside a Poverty Program office 
in what appears to be an inner-city neighbor­
hood. The figures are flatand cut-out-like in 
appearance and their simplified features 
reserilble those found upon African masks. 
Smith's use ofsand and oil to produce the sur­
face creates the background's gritty texture. 
Smith was born in Brooklyn, N.Y., in 1929. 
He was closely involved with the African 
Orthodox Church and studied the piano and 
·­

alto saxophone until age 12. Paul Cezanne's 
work inspired him in 1952to become an artist, 
and his work is closely tied to African and 
African-American stories and music. 
Smith's works from the '50s generally depict 
quiet genre scenes which reflect the celebrat­
ed joys of life; he often portrays the city and 
uses the recurring image ofa jazz musician. 
Smith's images from the '60s reflect more 
serious social issues which symbolize the 
unrest and turmoil of the decade. During this 
time the influences of artist.<; such as Goya and 
Darnnier, who were concerned with the social 
injustices of their times, are evident. His tex­
tures ~ecome more varied throughout this 
decade while his compositions become more 
complex through the utilization of different 
media. such as his .use ofsand and oil in 
"Waiting." 

Smith's paintings from the '70s are dominat­
ed by social themes, including those from his 
experiences traveling in Africa. His composi­
tions become full ofAfrican patterns, colors 
and motifs from masks orfabrics. 
Smith is still an active black artist in a black · culture, evolving into a chronicler ofthe .... 
African~American scene to find his African 
heritage. He is influenced by his close friends >and fellow artists who are.often the sUbjects of 
his paintings.

•.. .11?ritlfortl1ationabout this painting or any 
··other worlf of art in the Snite, contact·Gina Cos~. curator of education, at 631-4720. , 
Tlw views expressed in this column are 

............~.... ..----~~.m~~~~--~..........--------~~--~.---~--------~ 
Tueday, March 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
• NHL 
• 
Panthers up streak to 13 wins 
Odjick leaves Canucks, 
Associa1ed Press when Stu Crimson was awarded Yzerman tied it with 51.6 sec­a goal at 6:30 on a puck that onds remaining when his shot 
heads to New York
MIAMI was kicked into the net by from just inside the Chicago blue 
Keith Primeau scored two Panthers' defenseman Ed line went through Chris Chelios' goals as the Carolina Hurricanes Jovanovsky. legs and deflected into the net 
;~soclated 
Press Used sparingly since Mike lwld off Florida 5-3 Monday, The Hurricanes took a 1-0 ofT Chicago goaltender Chris 
Keenan took over as head extending the Panthers' losing lead on Martin Gelinas' goal at Terreri. 
VANCOUVER coach last November, Odjick streak to 13 games. 6: 18 of the first period. Gelinas Ethan Moreau scored two 
The Vancouver Canucks had three goals and five dealt left wing Gino Odjick, points in 35 games. whileCarolina. which had lost four took a shot from the bottom of goals for Chicago, including the 
their all-time penalty min­racking up 181 minutes in
of its last livn ganws, moved into the right cirlce, then moved in last of two the Blackhawks utes leader, to the New York penalties -tied for seconda ninth-place tiP with the New and finished oil" his own rebound scored in the first 1:11 of the 
Islanders for defenseman on the team-this year.
York Hangers in the Eastern to beat John Vanbiesbrouck. second period to take a 4-1 lead. Conference. Both teams trail Carolina led 2-0 on Primeau's Detroit rallied behind power­
Jason Strudwick on Monday. "I have no bitterness," said Ottawa by live points in the race re-directed goal at 15:35 of the play goals from Nicklas Lidstrom 
Odjick, who has compiled Odjick. UI knew it was going for the conference's final playoff period. Primeau's goal resulted late in the second and Sergei 
2,027 minutes in penalties to happen. Mike Keenan over eight seasons with treated me with as mueh
spot. from a shot that Gary Hoberts Fedorov early in the third. Florida, which also has a 15-took from the right circle. Eric Daze restored Chicago's 
Vancouver, had been the respect, person to person. as dub's longest-serving player you could ask. Certainly Igarnn winless streak, moved Florida pulled to 2-1 when two-goal lead when he finished following last month's trade would have liked to have
within four losses of the NHL Steve Washburn's blast kicked in off a 2-on-1 break with Eric 
that sent Trevor Linden to played more and made it
record of 17 straight set by ofT the right post. However, the Weinrich with 5:39 remaining. 
theislanders in. a three-play­work here."
theWashington Capitals in 1974-Panthers lost Dave Gagner and Yzerman, who assisted on 
er deal. The 6-foot-3, 215-pound on .Jan. 31 against Tampa Bay. up a 4-cm-3 power play that two goals. 
75. Florida's last victory carne Jovanovsky to penalties, setting Fedorov's goal, then scored his 
"I don't think I will ever Strudwick, the Isles' third­Carolina led 4-1 in the third Carolina seized upon with Jamie Pushor scored his first 
forget this part of my life round pick (63rd overall) in period but had to hold oil" a rally Kapanen scoring from the slot. goal in more than four months 
and career," said Odjick. "I 1994, played 17 games with by the Panthers. Viktor Kozlov for the Red Wings. 
arrived here a kid and hope­the team this season, getting and Seott Mellanby each scored Chicago 5, Detroit 5 Chad Kilger added two assists 
fully I am leaving as an one assist and 36 penalty to pull Florida to 4-3. and Sergei Krivakrasov and 
adult." minutes. Mellanby's goal carne with Steve Yzerman scored two of Tony Amonte had Chicago's 
1:29 left, and the Hurricanes Detroit's three third-period goals other goals. 
Terreri wide at 9:17. in ahead of defensernan Bobelinclwd the game on Primeau's and assisted on the other Terreri stopped 40 shots. 
It was Pushor's first point Rouse and faked I lodson to the
empty-net goal with 7.6 seconds Monday night as the Red Wings Kevin Hodson started in since he had a goal and an assist ice on the right side of the goalremaining. rallied from a 4-1 deficit for a 5-Detroit's net and gave up four Nov. 9 against Calgary. before tucking his shot into thePrimeau also had two assists 5 tie with the Chicago goals on15 shots. Rookie Norm The Blackhawks regained the wide-open left. 
to finish with four points on the Blackhawks. Maracle took over in the second lead at 14:12 when Moreau put Just 19 seconds later,
night. The tie ended winning streaks period and made seven saves. 
horne the rebound of Kilger's Moreau's second goal of theCarolina opened a 4-1 lead in for both clubs. Chicago had won Krivakrasov gave Chicago a 1­point-blank shot, which followed night gave Chicago a 4-1 leadthe second period behind a pair its previous four and Detroit its 0 lead when his backhander Anders Eriksson's giveaway in and put Hodson on the bench.
of goals. last three. from the left circle got past front of the Detroit net. Moreau skated on the wide sideSami Kapanen scored on a 4-Detroit trailed 5-3 when Hodson 6:40 into the first period. 
Arnonte scored his 26th goal of the left circle to avoid Larry
on-3 power-play goal, his 25th of Yzerman scored the Red Wings' Pushor answered with his on a power play only 52 seconds Murphy and lifted a high shotthe season, to put the Panthers third power-play goal of the first goal in 35 games, a drive into the second period. He broke into the net.
ahead 3-1. The lead grew to 4-1 game with 4:48 remaining. from the right point that beat 

• COLLEGE FOOTBAll 
Hill's jersey returned to Duke, Tar Heels win recruit 
Associa1ed Press able." 
According to the Virginian-Pilot of NORFOLK, Va. Norfolk, Curry notified North Honald Curry, one of the nation's Carolina last week after meeting in 
end of Tar-Heel-Blue Devil war 
Associa1ed Press police Lt. Larry Caldwell said. 
top high school recruits in both bas­Hampton with Tar Heels assistantThe Hill banner theft was part of a rash ketball and football, will attend North coach Phil Ford and Hampton basket­CHAPEL HILL, N.C. of basketball-related thefts from the UNC Carolina, one of Curry's high school ball coach Walter Brower.
The Atlantic Coast Conference basket­and Duke campuses this year. 
coaches said Monday. "The day after Phil Ford left,
ball wars arc over. and now all of the A replica Michael Jordan jersey was 
Curry, visited by a Tar Heels bas­Honald told Brower to call him back
spoils have been stolen from the Smith Center on Jan. 31. 
ketball official at his horne last and tell him," an unidentified sourceThe final item returned in the thefts A few days later, on Feb. 4, someone Monday night, the next day told Mike told the newspaper. "Paperwork wasbetween Duke and North Carolina was broke into Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski's Smith, his football coach at Hampton ordered from Carolina."
the jPrsey banner of former Duke player office and stole six practice shorts and a High, that he would sign with North Curry would not confirm his plans.
Grant Hill. signed 1992 USA Olympic "Dream Team" 
Carolina. Speaking Monday following practiceThe banner. stolen Feb. 26 from the poster valued at $20,000. 
Smith said until recently Curry for Wednesday's McDonald's All­
rafters of Cameron Indoor Stadium, was Jordan's jersey and the poster have planned to attend Virginia. America game in Norfolk, Curry said:recovt)rPd by UNC-Chapel Hill police on been recovered in recent weeks. 
"I thought he was going to Virginia "Find out (at the news conference).
Sunday and returned to Dukfl on Monday. UNC students Benjamin Hartmere, 20, until Tuesday," Smith said. "Last It's over with now. I already made my1\ man who identified himself only as and Kenneth Kerr, 31, and former UNC week, he had a change of mind for decision."
".John" called the campus police dis­student Charles Bailey, 22, of Kittrell some reason. It was just a sudden Curry plans to announce his deci­
patchnr around 2 a.m. Sunday from a have been charged with felonious break­campus call box to say tlw banner could ing and entering and felonious larceny in change. sion Tuesday at the Norfolk Scope 
That's where he wanted to go, and arena, where the all-star game will
bn found outside the UNC Student Union. connection with the theft of the poster. 
that's where he said he felt comfort-be played. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. a1 the Notre Dame oHice, 314 Lal'onune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musl be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves 1he right to edir all classifieds for comem wi1hour issuing refunds. 
PHANTOM OF THE OPERA  HAPPY 20TH BETH!!!!!!  
===N=O==T=IC=E=S~~''~==~==~=N=T=E=D~~  EASTERN EUROPE EMPLOY­MENT -Discover how to teach  Going to Summer School? Stay in College Park condo. Call243-7720  TICKETS. Thursday, March 26.  -love ya MikeyT  
...  basic conversational English in  for details.  Available through Cavanaugh  
•••Attention Sophomore  Advertising Sales Internships  Prague. Budapest & Krakow.  Hall. Transportation provided.  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  
Accounling Majors· ..  University Directories is hiring stu­ Competitive wages + benefits.  ALL SIZE HOMES  Leave at 5:00pm from Stepan  Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor  
Looking for a job for  dents to sell yellow page advertising  Seasonal/year-round positions. For  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Center. If interested, call Jamie at  play. Students w/Nd·SMC ID-1/2  
next school year?  for the official campus telephone  more information:  232-2595  634-1470.  price field fee.  
Position available at the  directory this summer. Commission  (517)336-0640 ext. K55841  291-2540.  
Morrissey Loan Fund.  based pay structure. Training pro­ NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES  GRADUATION TICKETS  
Call Deb at 1·6616 for  gram. Excellent sales & marketing  Law prof seeks child care for 2 sons  NORTH OF NO GOOD AREA  WANTED  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  
information.  experience. Call1-800-743-5556 Ext.  (2 & 3 1 /2) 3 days/wk beginning  2773097  Call Dennis @ 288-2423  babbling brooks in summer.  
143 or visit www.universitydirecto­ after Easter. Could work until early  or 800-915-6293  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire·  
EDUCmajor taking NCTE tests at  ries.  July & resume in Aug. Call Prof.  8 BEDROOM HOME 2773097  place in winter. Love and joy for  
Purdue or wanna visit friends? Free ride Leave campus3/27 Return3/28  com  Vincent Rougeau, 631-8610.  FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH  PERSONAL  your baby all year long. Happy. car­ing professional couple would love  
x1571-RA  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT:  SMC student seeks tutor for  OAKHILL CONDO. AVAILABLE  to provide a newborn with love. joy  
ART EDUCATION ASSISTANT  Bus.Stats class. if interested call  AUG. 1ST. CALL OR LEAVE A  C LAS S  OF  '9 8  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1·  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE. AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon · Thur 7:30am -Midnight Fri 7:30am -7:00pm  SNITE ART MUSEUM Assist Education Curator with sum­mer youth art program focusing on museum objects and related hands­ 284-5048 ASAP ~-F_O_R_RE__N_T__~I  MESSAGE (219)272-2910. I FORSALE  L A s s  SENIOR WEEK  800-484-7011 Pin #4523 Saint Mary's Women: Have something creative to say  
Sat  Noon -6:00pm  on activities. June 2nd to July 31st.  about about your hair?  Submit a  
Sun  Noon -Midnight  1 0-20 hours per week. Fine Arts  Very Reasonable Rent  SPACIOUS 1 BR CONDO  0  poem or two to the English depart­ 
CALL 631-COPY  major with exp. teaching and/or  Looking for a mature female or  walk to campus  F  IS  ment  
ILOST & FOUND I  working with children preferred. (June 15 to July 31st, additional Work Study hours -if eligible-with  graduate student to share brand new home (South Bend area, north, Clay Twnshp). Spacious upper-leve  Call Dianne Killelea 272-5444  9 8  COMING  Think cruise. think cruise, think cruise ....  
FOUND: CROSS PEN BY GRACE  National Youth Sports Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if  private bath, beautiful view over­looking pond.  TICKETS  look at all this junk food ...  High maintenance? Well, maybe,  
HALL.  desired, PLUS room and board  Please send inquiries to:  Coming April 1 and 2  but you probably haven't seen any­ 
'  CALL LAURA 1-6967.  · included June 23 to Aug. 1)  PJS  For Sale  thing yet!  
CALL education curator Sherrie  1705 South Bend Ave.  Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows  Schirano-Any time, any place.  
LOST: Texas baseball cap in  Gauley, 631-4435. ASAP.  South Bend, IN. 46637  Center State -$30  Saturday was magic. You know the  Hi Judes! I miss ym.  You have to  
Hesburgh center Feb. 26.  App. deadline 4/06/98  272-7233  number.  make a trip to:J tt1e forest soon.  
Sentimental value. Jim @ 4-0608  

-~-~-----~---~---~----------,.....------------------~---~· ~~-~---­
Tuesday, March 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORfS 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 
NC State dethrones Connecticut 
Associated Press 
DAYTON, Ohio 

North Carolina State pulled off its second straight upset, knocking Connecticut out the NCAA tournament 60-52 Monday and advancing to the women's Final Four for the first time. 
The Huskies, who had won all seven games since losing All-American Nykesha Sales to a ruptured an Achilles' tendon late in the season, blew a 10­point second-half lead. 
Chasity Melvin scored eight points of her 18 points during the14-0 run that brought the Wolfpack (25-6) back into the game. 
The Huskies (34-3) took a 36-2(J lead three minutes into the) second half on a 3-pointer by Amy Duran, and appeared to be have the game under control. 
But then Melvin scored 
underneath, LySchale Jones hit a basket, 
Tynesha Lewis scored off a steal and Melvin hit three more baskets. Jones scored again to give the Wolfpack a 40-36 lead. 
Connecticut tied the game twice after that run, but was clearly rattled. North Carolina State scored its last eight points on free throws, as the Huskies were forced to foul repeatedly. 
Summer Erb and Jones each had 12, and Tynesha Lewis had 11 for North Carolina State. 
Duran and Paige Sauer led Connecticut with 11 points each. 
North Carolina State used its tenacious defense to stay close in the first half, holding Connecticut -which averaged 84 points a game this season -to a 28-23 halftime lead. 
Erb was a major factor in 

_I 0 ~0P~y}; .~l)d ""e'( 0 GiveYou spoke. 
We listened. 
Beginning the
0 
I 1 
0 
I I I 
~ 




neutralizing the Huskies' offense. She came off the bench five minutes into the game, and in less than three minutes had three points, four rebounds and had forced Connecticut's best rebounder, Paige Sauer, to the bench for the rest of the half with her second foul. 
North Carolina State, making its ninth NCAA appearance, had never reached the final eight until knocking off No. 1­seeded Old Dominion 55-54 on Saturday. · 
It was the 1Oth straight NCAA tournament appearance for Connecticut, and the fifth consecutive regional final for the Huskies. 
The loss ended Connecticut's tradition of winning on coach Geno Auriemma's birthday. The Huskies had previously won all three NCAA tourna­ment games played on March 23. 
• NFL'!!' 




Dawg paunf!Jlack in business 
club hi Cleveland after the The $247 million, 72,000-seat 
Browns moved-to Baltimore': in stadium iS expected to be i::om-
ORIANDO,:Fi~~ 1995.: .::Ji. pleteQ in time for the BroWns'
= 

The NFL approved an expan· TheBrowns will return to the first game. 
sio.n team. for Qievelandion,l!!iiAFCCentra1.playingtheir first NFL commissioner Paul 
M9nday, returning t~e ~ro · exhJ}lition gap.te against Dallas ._._ Tagliabue also announced that 
to,. the fi.eld O~;Jxtseason i irt"the Halfof Fame gam!Hn '' the hiague.hired Joe Mack as 
U[lPr~ce(len.ted mo~J<l!i Ca,nt0n,.()hl0.• next year, The player personnel director of the 
restores one offootball's sto first reg*la:J; season game is ...•.. Browns. Mack held that position 
franchises. supposed to be played on Aug. ····.with the Washington Redskins 
With unanimous support from 21r.1999 in a 1iew 1> t;tdi1,\m form 1989-94 and helped build 
owners, the league will expand being built on the same site as the Carolina Panthers expan­
tll31 teamsfor the 1999 season, olq Cleveland Stadium. wht<:h sion team as assistant general 
The Observer/Joe Stark UConn's Stacy Hansmeyer (left) and Rita Williams (right) gave head coach Geno Auriemma a 60-52 loss to NC State for his birthday . 
keeping its cm;nmitment ~PY:ta ,.... manager in 1994.. 
. ?Wt· 

~O 'lOU/!J
,, 

Fall Semester of 1998, 
Notre Dame Food Services 
will offer an alternative to the traditional 
21 Meal Plan. 
We call it Flex 14 . 
•

To Sign Up just bring your current Notre Dame ;~ Card to either North or South Dining Hall lobby between March24-27 from 7:00a.m. to 7:00p.m . . 
.. 
-· 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Stanford hopes to 'reign' in NCAAs to end drought 
Associated Press 

PALO ALTO, Calif. 
After a 56-year wait between trips to 
the Final Four. the rush is on at Stanford. 
Setting aside their shock and disbelief 
at Stanford's last-minute win over Rhode 
Island in Sunday's Midwest Hegional 
championship, scores of people turned 
out Monday to get on the bandwagon for 
the Cardinal's first Final Four appear­
ance since the 1942 team won the 
national title. assume you're going to go 
every few years. For Stanford. this is 
almost a first-time thing and everyone is 
going crazy." student David Flemming 
said after spending $100 for a ticket to ·the semifinals and title game this week­
end in San Antonio. 

Stanford overcame a six-point deficit in 
the final minute to defeat Rhode Island 
79-77 and advance to Saturday's meeting 
against Kentucky, which needed a stir­
ring comeback of its own to beat Duke 
R6-R4 in the South Hegional final. 
"We went from a feeling of, 'Oh, no, 
we're going to lose this game,' to a feel­
ing of absolute elation," Stanford forward Madsen said. "And Arthur Lee is the guy who made it happen." 
Lee extended the Cardinal's season by scoring 13 of his 26 points in the last 2:04. 
The players and coaches weren't the only ones caught up in the emotional roller coaster. 
"When we were down six points with 59 seconds left, I figured it was over," said Matt Etheridge, a financial analyst at Stanfo~d who also plans to attend the Final Four. "So I walked into a store, was there for a few minutes, and came back out to the car." 
"The game was still going on and we were up by one point. It was just very exciting, a tremendous accomplishment." 
Flemming, a classics major at the school, was working Sunday as the public address announcer at the baseball game between 
Stanford and Washington at Sunken Diamond. 
"When we went ahead in the last minute every one of us in the press box started jumping up and down screaming and hollering," said Flemming. "So did the fans in the stands and even players down on the field, because they were all looking up at us trying to figure out what was happening and we were giving out the updates. Everyone was more involved in the basketball game than the baseball game." 
Many students were away on spring break and there were few tangible signs around campus indicating the school was in the Final Four. But the athletic depart­ment and its ticket office were inundated. 
Stanford received an allotment of 3,500 tickets to the Final Four and for now, stu­dents, alumni, season-ticket holders and boosters were being given priority to pur­chase them. 
"The phones have been non-stop since we opened this morning. Business is very brisk and it's very exciting," said assis­tant athletic director Bob Carruesco. "It was just a phenomenal game and the Final Four is something very special. This is kind of unchartered ground for us, s~ you just go through it and enjoy it as you go along." 
While Stanford's women's team has six Final Four trips and two national titles in the 1990s, the men's team endumd a 47­year NCAA tournament drought after winning the title in '42. 
"Somebody would have thought you're a lunatic if you said five years ago that Stanford would be in the Final Four," Flemming said. 
Etheridge said the championship push by the men's team helpnd ease· the sting of the Stanford women's first-round ouster by Harvard, which becamfl the first No. 16 sP.ed to beat a No. 1 seed when it eliminated the Cardinal. 
"I guess that's the counterpoint to all this," Etheridge said. "Losing in the first-round was pretty rough for them." 
The men's team and coach Mike Montgomery arrived home late Sunday night to a boisterous welcome from some 200 people gathered outside Maples Pavilion, the school's baskfltball home. 
The players joined other students in taking the day olT Mondaybefore resum­ing preparations Tuesday for their meet­ing with Kentucky. The team is sched­uled to leave for San Antonio on Wednesday. 
Williams haunted by last.year's semis 
Amx:iated Press 

CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Everywhere Shammond Williams turns this week he'll be asked about the worst game of his car.eer. 
The North Carolina senior said a return trip to the Final Four will serve as a reminder of his 1-for-13 performance in a loss to Arizona in last year's semifinals. 
Williams, th!:l school's career 3-point leader. was in fact reminded of his poor shooting game Monday morning when he turned the television on, then several hours later when reporters grilled him on the subject. 
Williams. who believes he is often overshadowed byAll­Americans Antawn Jamison and Vince Carter, is a bit of a loner, listing his hobby as spending time alone thinking and shooting by himself at the Smith Center at 2 a.m. 
Williams is the team's sec­ond-leading scorer at 17.0 points a game, shoots 41.3 percent from beyond the arc and his131-for-144 f91 per­cent) free-throw effort this season is the best in school history. 
However. he voiced his dis­pleasure several weeks ago when he was named second· team AII-ACC, and not to the first team. 
Earlier last month and three days after scoring a career·high 42 points in a 107-100 double overtime vic­tory at Georgia Tech, 
Williams left the bench in tears after a disagreement with coach Bill Guthridge. He returned but didn't play in the second half and scored just one point. 
Both parties said the inci­dent, which was captured live by ESPN, was quickly buried and forgotten. 
Still, Williams is uncomJort­able discussing his actions. "I don't regret it at all," Williams said Monday. 
"I feel bad that things went that way, but I felt like being the person I am I handled it the best way I could. I was never disrespectful or any­thing like that to my coach­es." 
Most would agree that without Williams the Tar Heels (34-3} would not be 
·playing Utah (29·3) on Saturday in the program's14th Final Four appearance. 
• He scored 32 points in an overtime victory against North Carolina-Charlotte in the second round of the NCAA tournament, then added 18 and 19 points in the East Regional semifinals and finals in Greensboro this past weekend. 

READY FOR A CHANGE? 
LOOKING FOR LIFE EXPERIENCE? TAKE A BREAK FROM BOOKS & VOLUNTEER! 
CASA DE ESPERANZA cares for abused neglected and HIV+ children YOU CAN HELP 
~ 
Phone: (713) 529-0639 Fax: (713) 529-9179 E-mail: casahope@neosoft.comcasa Website: www.neosoft.com/-casahope
de esperonzo 

Why not help us change lives? 
Room/Board/Stipend/Health Insurance/Education Awards (An 
excellent opportunity for anyone interested in MEDICINE, 
CHILDREN'S ISSUES, EDUCATION, SOCIAL WORK, 
PSYCHOLOGY, HEALTH CARE or SOCIAL JUSTICE.) 
·-
Casa de Esperanza 
P.O. Box 66581 Houston, TX 77266-6581 
Kentucky fans crave tickets 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
The astonishing comeback against Duke was nothing. The hard part now comes for Kentucky basketball: tickets. 
Kentucky travel agencies were swamped with calls Monday from fans willing to do -or pay -almost anything to be in San Antonio for Saturday night's Final Four semifinal against Stanford. 
Sylvia Bahbah, manager of Lafayette Travel in Lexington, said her company had received dozens of calls by noon. Her agency was snlling a $1,700 package that included a char­tered flight Friday with a return flight Tuesday. She said the package probably would be sold out by the end of the day. 
Commonwealth Travel Agency in Lexington also exhausted its 800-person Final Four packagp, by noon Monday. 
The school has an allotment of only 3,500 tickets, which is divided into thirds for stu­dents, faculty and the athletic department. A lottery was scheduled for Monday night to distribute the studnnts' por­tion. 
While many Kentucky fans will have to be satislied watch­ing their beloved Wildcats on television, one of the team's most-recognizable fans ­actress Ashley Judd -is San Antonio bound. 
The players had Monday off although some wen) expected to work put on their own. The team is to leave for San Antonio onWednesday. 
Thousands of Kentucky fans on Monday continued to rnw~l in the 
latest victory in which the Wildcats ralli1~d from a 17­point deficit 
in the last I0 minutes. 

Some 3,500 fans jammr.d Blue Grass Airport to grent the South Hegional champions late Sunday night. Many waved blue llags with large white K's on them and placards that said, "San Antonio, herP we come" and "It.'s Tubby tinw." 
I'd call tiH~ m 'The Hemarkablcs,"' Mark Newton said. "They·n~ just a rPnwrk­able tr.am." 
But his son, Mattlww, dis­agreed. ''I'd rail tlwm 'Thn In creel ibll~s. '" !11~ said. "They just arn." 
Party Politics 
Indiana and beyond 
«D 
L LJ\b 


Featuring: 
Robert Hiler 
State of Indiana Republican Party 
Joe Andrew 
State of Indiana Democratic Party 
An evening designed to give students a greater understanding of the roles of party politics in midterm elections and to expand their involvement in such 
Sponsored by: College Republicans College Democrats Government department Hesburgh Program · 
7:30 Montgomery Auditorium 
LaFortune Student Center Wednesday, March 25 
Wednesday, March 24, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 19 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 

Tuesday, March 24,7:00 pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Campus Bible Study 
Fridays during Lent, 7:15 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Stations of the Cross 
Music Ministry: March 27 Liturgical Choir April 3 Women's Choir AprillO Folk Choir 
Friday-Saturday, March 27-28, St. Joe Hall 
Freshmen Retreat #17 -For residents of Carroll, 
Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford and Welsh Family. 
Friday-Sunday, March 27-29, Fatima Retreat Center 
Notre Dame Encounter Retreat #51 
Friday-Sunday, March 27-29, Five Pines 
Hispanic Student Retreat 
Morrisey Manor Chapel, 7:00 -8:30 pm 
KEEPING THE FAITH,1998: Three Nights, Four Loves 
Monday, March 30: LOVE: All in the Family 
rresenters: Mrs. Audrey Brosnan, Siena Heights College Notre Dame Students Music: Coro Primavera 
Thursday, April 2: LOVE: It Had to be You 
Presneters: Rev. Paul Doyle, C.S.C. ND Faculty and Staff Music: Voices of Faith 
Monday, April 6: LOVE: I'll Be There For You 
Presenters: Rev. Michael Baxter, C.S.C. ­Department of Theology Faculty and Students Music: Contemporary Choir 
-


page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
•NBA 

Pippen leads scoring in dunking of Celtics 

Iverson close to bankrupt in points against Pistons 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO 
Scottie Pippen scored 27 points. including 14 on soar­ing, forceful dunks, as the Chicago Bulls defeated the Boston Celties 111-88 Monday night for their sixth consecu­tive victory. 
Michael Jordan added 24 points and Dennis Hodman had 14 rebounds to go with a season-high 12 points for the Bulls, who have won 14 of their last 15 games against the Celtics. 
Antoine Walker scored 26 points. but Boston still lost for the seventh time in eight games. The Celtics, who lead the NBA in turnovers forced, hurt themselves with 22 give­aways which the Bulls convert­ed to 34 points. 
While Chicago (52-17) has built on the NBA's best record, Boston (30-38) fell live games out of the final Eastern Conference playotT spot. 
Pippen grabbed 11 boards, as the Bulls outrebounded 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA 
Allen Iverson was held to a career-low four points Monday night as the Detroit Pistons, behind 20 points from Joe Dumars, defeated the Philadnlphia 76ers 94-79. 
Iverson shot just 2-f'or-14 
Boston 46-27, and had six assists in one of his best all­around games of the season. 
After offseason foot surgery forced him to miss the first 35 games, Pippen has helped the Bulls go 28-6. 
When he first returned, he was reluctant to go inside. But he has been driving to the bas­ket with reckless abandon in recent weeks and was looking to dunk whenever possible Monday. 
During one four-possession stretch of the second quarter, Pippen had three jams. 
Hodman. whose previous season-high was 11 points, had only one fewer than that in the first quarter as Chicago led most of the way. 
Toni Kukoc had 17 points and 10 assists for the Bulls, who shot 54 percent. 
The Bulls are 8-0 against the Celtics at the United Center. Boston's last win at Chicago was on April 22, 1994 -the next-to-last regular-season game at the old Chicago 
KAT Photo
Stadium. 

Scottie Pippen scored 27 points to push Chicago to their sixth straight victory, 111-88 over Boston. 
for the Sixers, who came back from three 16-point deficits but could never quite catch the Pistons. 
Grant Hill had 17 points and 11 rebounds, while Brian Williams had 14 points and 13 rebounds as Detroit won its third in a row. 
Derrick Coleman, activated Monday night after missing eight games because of a sprained ankle, led Philadelphia with 25 points and 13 rebounds. 

.Joe Smith, back after miss­ing three games with an abdominal strain, had 10 points and five rebounds in 23 minutes 
The 76ers, who lost their third straight, made just 35 percent of their shots (26-for­74). 
Detroit was outscored 27-18 in the third quarter, but a three-point play by Jerry Stackhouse gave the Pistons a 79-66 lead with 7:31 remain­ing in the fourth. 
Coleman twiee pulled the 76ers within seven, the last time on a jumper that made it 82-75, but the Pistons went on a 8-2 run to extend the advan­tage to 90-77 with 2:21 left. 
The Pistons outrebounded Philadelphia 16-5 in the first period and 26-18 in the open­ing half. 
z 


<C 

-
z 
z

-
> 

FORMER SECRETARY OF LABOR 

(Basement of the Snite) 
Sponsored by: 
The Notre Dame Council on International Business Development with SRB and the Women's Resource Center 
7At \li,,tJ. if \liAiti"S ~~~~~ t1tt '""'lvtJ. 
www.nd.edu/~ndcibd 

Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Rose scolded for communicating with Reds 
Associated Press reprimand, not a fine. The Reds had admitted that NL president Len Coleman, a minor league coordinator SARASOTA, Fla. acting at the behest of acting invited Rose to address the Pete Rose's little talk to commissioner Bud Selig, told players March 11. Under the 
Cincinnati Reds minor lea­
the Reds of the decision lifetime ban Rose agreed to in 
guers this month resulted in a Monday. 1989 for gambling, baseball's 
SPEAK OUT!! 
·On Fr. Garrick, Homophobia, and Injustice! TODAY at Stonehenge from 4-6 p.m. Come and Voice Your Opinion!! 
Joseph Vining, Hutchins Professor of Law at the University of Michigan, is among the most thoughtful and_original of roday's legal theorists. His recent writings include The Authoritative and the Authoritarian, an inquiry into the nature of legal authority, and From Newton's Sleep, a study ofthe meaning for science and religion of the legal mode of thinking. 


Joseph Vining 
"On the Future ofTotal Theory: Science, Anti-Science and Human Candor" 
in the Erasmus Institute's Distinguished Lectureship Series 
Thursday, March 26 4p.m. Law School Courrroom -Second Floor 
Followed by 
An Informal Discussion with Mr. Vining Friday, March 27 10 a.m. Civil Rights Reading Room-Kresge Law Library 

Sophomore Class Council Applications 
Applications for all Freshmen interested in Sophomore Class Council can be picked up in the Student Government Office on the second floor of LaFortune. 
Questions? Call Hunt Hanover (x1709). 
Help Make Next Year A Great One! 
We're still as close as ever. 
Love, 
Your Brother Down Under 


-
March 23th at 7pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
-

Sponsored by the First Year ofStudies 
.. 

PURCHASE TICKETS AT LAFORTUNE INFORMATION DESK: $2 
career hits leader is not per­mitted to do anything affiliated with any professional team. 
Reds managing executive John Allen admitted the club was in error, took the blame and called it an honest mis­take. The Reds sent a written report soon after the violation. 
"We made it very clear what happened and I told them ulti­mately it was my fault,;• Allen said. 
Selig spokesman Rich Levin said baseball accepted the club's explanation. 

Rose is permitted to watch players work out, just like any fan. He wanted to see his son, Pete Jr., who is in the minor­league system. 
Donnie Scott, the coordina­tor who invited Rose to talk to the players, was unaware it violated the ban. 
The matter could damage Rose's attempt to get back into baseball. 
He has applied for reinstate­ment, but baseball's executive council has not considered the application, which would 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 24, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 
Deaf playeriooks to Cubans make plea for freedom 
Associated Pu;ss He called for the govern­authorities at Ragged Island, a ments of the United Sates, tiny fishing outpost about 80
earn spot with Braves 
NASSAU, Bahamas Canada, Venezuela and Costa miles north of the Cuban 
Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. With Curtis Pride. it all begins with the eyes. 
Tlwy arl' full of wonder. con­stantly probing 1werything from a pitdwr's rurve to a team­matP's chatter to a reporter's questions. 
Tlwy an~ tlw great nqualizer in his world of sil1mce. 
"I want to lw known as a good ballplayPr," hn said, those big, brown eyes blazing defiantly, "not just a deaf ballplayer." 
Pride, who is trying to earn a spot on the Atlanta Braves bench. may not be able to hear the crack of tlw bat but consid­ers himself no different than anyone cls1~ on the field. lie may not hear thP cheering of' the fans. but lw longs to earn a per­manent job in the major leagur.s. 
The outfir.lder thought that would come aftnr he hit .300 with 10 homers, 31 HB!s and 11 stolen bases for Detroit two years ago. 
But the Tigers were in the midst of the a youth movement, so the 2!J-year-old got pushed aside in I1)1)7, finishing out the er than most of us in terms of processing information. He's worked so hard throughout his life that it's now very easy for him to fit in." 
Pride's mother, Sallie, con­tracted German measles while she was pregnant with Curtis. llis hearing impairment was diagnosed when he was 7 months old. 
"There was taunting and teas­ing when he was in elementary school," John Pride added. "But once kids realized what an exceptional athlete Curt was, they were more interested in trying to identify with him than teasing him." 
On the field. a few conces­sions must be made to Pride's lack of hearing -for instance, when he calls for a ball in the out!ield, it's automatically his­but he's basically just a ballplayer trying to earn a job. 
"I can't control what's hap­pened in the past," he said. "I just have to knep hitting and force them to do something with me. That's the only way I can do it." 
Begging for the right to live freely and condemning "unjust detention" in the Bahamas, four Cuban baseball stars and five friends appealed Monday for asylum in Costa Rica. 
Bahamian defense forces, meanwhile, rescued another 10 tl!uban boat people and took them to the detention center, where dozens of refugees protested the special treat· ment given to the Cuban play­ers. 
More than 100 Cuban men and women began a hunger strike Monday to demand equal treatment with the ballplayers. detention camp director Arthur Rolle con­firmed. 
Lazaro Santana, a spokesman for ordinary Cuban refugees at the camp, said, "We are happy because they (the hall players) have saved their lives. The problem is that we Cubans here want to have the same opportunities ;'1-S our brothers who play baseball .... 
"We don't want to go back to Cuba." 
Rica to intervene on their behalf'. 
The ballplayers told The Associated Press they were not joining the strike. 
"Conditions at the camp are bad: bad provisions, bad food. I don't have a bed to sleep in," said Angel Lopez, 25, who like the others spent the night on the noor. 
"We beseech your coopera­tion and help in permitting us the right to live in a country of total freedom where human rights are respected," the players said in a letter sent Monday to Costa Rican President Jose Maria Figueres. They asked him to immediate­ly grant them "humanitarian visas." 
The players left their home­towns in central Cuba on March 10, then remained locked in a safehouse for 10 days before setting out . to sea Friday. They drifted into a Bahamian fishing boat 17 1/2 hours later. aceording to the players, and were turned over to Bahamian coast. 
The players included .Jorge Luis Toea, 23; Jorge Diaz, 23; and Miehael .Jova, a 17 -year­old player from Cuba's junior Olympic team along with Enrique Chin ea. 41, a pitching coach. All l'ive were bamwd from Cuban baseball last year because authorities suspected they were planning to def"Pet. 
Bahamian officials were unlikely to deport the ePlebri­ties, despite an agreement with the Cuban government to return all refugees. 
Last year, pitehing star Orlando "I\1 Duqun" Hernandez defected f'rom Cuba, arrived in the Bahamas and, with .Joe Cubas' help, speedily won asylum in Costa Rica. lie signed with the New York Yankees on March 6 and is with the team in spring training in Florida. 
The Bahamas deported nearly 1,300 ill<~ gal aliens between .July 1 and Oet. 31. More than 1,000 were Haitians and the rest ineluded Cubans, Brazilians and Chinese. 

season with the Boston Hed Sox. 
"People always have a ques­tion mark over me because of my disability," said Pride, who reads lips and speaks quite dearly despite his hearing impairmnnt. "It's frustrating. I want people to look beyond my disability and look at my abili­tins. I think I'm the equal of most guys ~s far as talent, maybe better. But I need an opportunity." 
Plagued by !J5 percent deaf­ness, Pride is convinced he would have been major league regular by now if not for his dis­ability. 
Don't get the impression, however. that he sits around cursing others for his plight. I lis parents instructed him at an early age not to make excuses. 
John Pride, who traveled with his wifn to Disney World this week to watch their son in the waning days of spring training. 
"But one of the things we taught Curt is to just accept whatever happens, keep going, and everything will work out for the best." 
Last month, Pride was signed by the Braves, who were look­ing for a left-handed pinch-hit­ter. With a week to go until opening day. he's been one of the most imprnssive playnrs in camp, hitting .318 with two homPrs, I I HBis and three stolen bases. 
"I'm happy with the way I'm 
-
playing so far," he said. "They am given me a lot of opportuni­ties and I'm just taking advan­tage of it. I ramn here with the intention of making the team." 
The Braves arfl thoroughly del:ern•d annuities that can lu·lp ynu lnrilrl ,,,Jditional ul TI.\.\-CI·U·~F. thl' \\'Oriel'~ largl'st n·ttn•mt·nl ~.\'lt'lll impressed by l'ridn, who will 
a:'set::; -rnotll',\' that can mod.;,· lht· ddlt·rt·tHT l,t'l\\"t'L~nappanmtly go down to the wire i\'o" .\\on• \\'ays to l\\t.'l't Yolll (~ocds li,·ing and ]j,·ing 11'c'// i·n retil"l'llll'lll
with first baseman Handall 
Simon for a spot on thn 25-man Cnntf'ihlllion!-\ to SRAs arl' t"tlll\"ellit'nll_, ~letllll tt·d ltHi.t.\ II.\ \-CREJ· c<tn ht:lpyou llll't'l t'\t'IJ tlltiJt' 
roster. Simon is onn of Atlanta's !"rom your :"alary on a preta..... ],~t:-.1'-Tlw n:.... ult'! .\\ore ol_\'tHtr lin;tnt ial ohil'Lti\'(~~ with IR.\s. mutu.t! lund~. 
top young players, hitting .308 llHHll'Y inn~sted. Fewt'r lii.'\l''-no\\ ·\nd ~llh't' in,·t·~tment dtlllmnrt·. \\'e'lflu·lp ·' ou :-t•ll'<"l tht· ~oluttnn:--th.tt '-LILt 
with 14 homers and 102 HBis at 
l'.trning·~ are tax dl'll•tTt•t l Utll il rnu 1t·t t'l\ l' t ht·tn a~ _\tllll nt·t·d~ \"isit yout IH'tll·lit" oJ'/i, t' tH t.tll II'-.11 
Triple-A Hiehmond last snason. 
intnllH' thl· tnotH'Y you 4lon·t "''tld 111 \\".t:->htng:tolltdll I HOO K-t:.!-:!7711 ,,, J,..,, mmv.
but l'ridP has r.rnated a dillicult 
dedsion. ,.,nrk t'\ l'll hanlt·r !'or you
-
In the clubhouse, mnanwhile, Pride has fit right in with his 
\·i~it u~ on tlu.· lntt•t·tu.•t at w\\·w.tiaa-t-rt•Lnrg: 
new teammatns despite the uniquennss of his situation. "Bnlievn me, it's not a disabili­

Ensuring the future
ty," said fellow outfielder Gerald 
for those who shape it.
Williams, whose locker is adja­

cent to Pride's in the Braves 
1\,,.,.,f,,,,' '"' 

II \ \ t I~ I I I rult\ ,, l11.ol .on· I lrr~rrrr·r .,,,.. ', ",1 "oh ~ l 'I~ 1.1 , o·rllfi, ,oh • , '" lrr ,r. • -I· 111 d.. I I \ \ f(..,: I ... 1. t. \. ""\ 1•11111•11 '"''1'1•1• ,,... r:o.ludllt!: ,lr.ll~o·· 111•!, · ,·•'". ·~ I 1 -~.! ,.,, •oO'I. f,, rlu fU "'I.,., •:r f.~. hI ,:, ·" • Iull· !'' lnt· ·•11111'1' ...1••1 "'''lhh•:··· 
spring training clubhouse. "If 
you spend a little time around / him, you realize that he's quick­
Tuesday,March 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Cordero looks to mend ways, save career 
Associated Press 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Wilfreda Cordero, searching for a team since Boston dropped him for wife beating, finally found one Monday when the Chicago White Sox agreed to a $1 million, one-year con­tract. 
Cordero received a 90-day suspended sentence and was ordered to attend regular counseling sessions after pleading guilty in November to beating and threatening his wife last June. 
"I realize what I did was 
wrong," Cordero, 26, said in a statement Monday." 
I recognize that I've made mistakes and have worked hard to change. With the sup­port of Chicago's fans and the White Sox, I see this as a tremendous chance to redeem myself and my reputation. 
He continued.. "I want to do everything possible to assure the club and the White Sox fans that they'll not be embar­rassed by my performance on or off the field." 
Cordero, who made $3 mil­lion with the Boston Red Sox last season, i·s expected to arrive at White Sox camp Tuesday. 
"Wil and I met with White Sox officials in Tucson and he spent a good deal of time with the employee assistant people with the White Sox and got a good feeling for people in a sit­uation like his," said Jeff Moorad, Cordero's agent. "The White Sox situation stuck out like a positive one to allow Wil to get his career back on track." 
Montreal also made an offer and two other clubs expressed interested. Cordero was swayed by the chance to play 
GET RID OF YOUR OLD SHOES... 
REUSE 
' '
I I I 

1,----
----I 
I I 

',SHOE 



student government 
The Problem;» Old Shoes. 
The Solution;» Turn 'em into something else. 
Student Government and Nike are collecting used or unwanted athletic shoes of any brand, and then we're going to grind them up and give them new life as athletic surfaces and Nike products 
The Goal. 
To collect 2000 pairs of shoes.. .the number needed to make an entire Reuse-A-Shoe basketball court. 
Collection Sites: 
• 
Residence Halls 

• 
Hesburgh Library 

• 
Loftus 

• 
Rockne 

• 
Decio 


•
Turtle Creek(#1638) •Campus View(#1828) 

•
LaFayette (# 16) 

•
Rolfs Rec Center 

• 
Stu. Govt.(203 LaFun) 



BROUGHT TO YOU THROUGH THE EFFORTS OF: 
J'1.. 

student governmenr 
first base and DH with the White Sox. 
The option year could be worth $2 million to $5 million, depending on his plate appear­ances this season. The 1999 salary becomes guaranteed if he gets 400 plate appearances this season, and he would get the maximum if he has 625. 
Cordero hit .281 with 18 homers and 72 RBis last sea­son but Boston released him immediately after the regular­season ended. 
He was arrested June 11 after police responding to a 911 call found his wife with a bloody nose and bruises on her neck and arms. 
He later pleaded guilty to 


at home, and certainly when the White Sox go on the road. 
"It's not something I obvious­ly condone," third baseman Robin Ventura said of Cordero's past problems. "But if a guy can come in here and if there's a problem, the team will take care of it. 
"If the team sign~ him, you somehow got to find a way to make this work. We'll see how it goes when he gets here." 
Ruben Sierra, whose playing time as a DH could be affected by Cordero's arrival, said the past is just that. 
"If he helps the team, it doesn't matter," he said. Manuel said the White Sox, who already have the moody 
page 24 
W.Lax 
continued from page 28 

losses to Colgate and Vanderbilt. Notre Dame anx­iously awaits the arrival of Duquesne. The Dukes suffered somn setbacks this year with the graduation of six of their starters which could play a factor in tuday's game. 
Last year. the Irish crushed the Dukes. 15-4. .Junior Kerry Callahan attained two goals and two assists in last year's contest. 
Sunday, the Irish faced a tough team in the Commodores. Vanderbilt improved to 5-3 on the season with their 19-6 win over Notre Dame. Vanderbilt's tandem of Susan Napolitano and Michelle Dillow combined for a total of 10 goals and eight assists. 
The Irish tried to rally just prior to half with back-to-hack goals from freshman Courtney Calabrese and Kathryn Perrella to cut the load to three. 
Then freshman Lael O'Shaughnessy scored in ini­tial stages of the second to make the score 8-4. 
It seemed as though every­time the Irish mounted some form of attack, the Commodores answered. Notre Dame got outshot by Vanderbilt 34-27. 
"Ti1ere were spurts where we Wtlre playing a good tran­sitional game," Manthei said. "At times we had a high work rate and were successful!. Then they !Vanderbilt] all of a sudden had quick goals and we couldn't react. We couldn't defend against that. They just had some things in 
Apr 17 ",A Connecticut Apr lSY GANNON 
.{Ff 
A~r 24 at Columbia 
_;; 
~pr 25 at Harvard 

The Observer • SPORTS 
Swimming 
continued from page 28 
and makes me want to train harder." 
Gallo, who was named the most outstanding swimmer at this year's Big East Championships, followed up her outstanding performance in the 500 with an even more impres­sive performance in her best event, the 1650 freestyle. The Irish's leader, who posted the sixth-best time out of the 30­swimmer field in that event dur­ing the regular season, couldn't equal that feat, but nonetheless placed ninth in a time of 
16:25.62 and once again earned all-American recognition. 
Gallo also qualified in the 200 freestyle event and finished 40th. 
Suddarth, who earned all­American honors by placing 13th in the 200 breaststroke as a freshman, duplicated that effort and took 11th as a sopho­more. 
Suddarth established a new school record (2:13.81) in pre­liminaries and then shattered that record in the finals, record­ing a time of 2:13.47. 
"I was looking forward to that race all season and focusing on it for the past month," said Suddarth. ''I'm happy with my . performance, but I felt I could have swam better and I was looking to place in the top eight." 
Suddarth also swam her way into the 100 breaststroke finals in a time of 1:01.82, once again breaking her own school record. Her eighth-place finish in the 100 finals (1:02.05) was yet another all-American effort by the sensational sophomore. 
"I was confident heading into the meet after my performance 

their arsenal that we haven't faced." Manthei chalked up a single goal in the Vandy contest. 
Freshman Carrie Marshall saw the majority of the action at goalie. 
In 45 minutes of play, she registered 10 saves. Junior Beth Murray saw limited action against the Commodores. She registered five saves in 15 minutes of play. 
Turnovers reflect why the score was so lopsided. Notre Dame had 15 turnovers versus Vandy's nine. While the Commodores caused 12 turnovers, the Irish forced only nine. 
Notre Dame is ready to defend its home field and establish their first home vic­tory. The quest begins today at 4 p.m. 


Junior Brittany Kline placed 25th at the NCAA finals in the 100 breastroke. 
last year," said Suddarth. "I 
knew I had it in me. I'm just 
happy that I was able to put it 
together and execute the race I 
wanted." 

Suddarth's accomplishment is even more impressive consider­ing the fact that the 100 breast­. stroke finals heat was the fastest in NCAA history and was won by Georgia swimmer Kristy Kowal (59.05), a gold medalist in the 
World Championships. 

"It was exciting to race in that heat," said Suddarth. "There was a lot of hype and I thrive on that. I perform best under pres­sure." 
Junior Brittany Kline joined Suddarth in the 100 breast­stroke, placing 25th (1 :03.88), while freshman standout Carrie Nixon swam to a 27th place lin­ish in the 50 freestyle in her first NCAA appearance. Nixon was also 26th in the 100 butterfly (55.80). 
"Carrie has made a great transition," commented Suddarth. "To come out that fast as a freshman is really impres­sive. She has three morn gn1at years ahead of her." 
A week earlier, sophomore diver Gina Kctelhohn led a strong contingent of Notre Dam11 divers, cracking the top ten in the NCAA Zone C Diving Championships held at Miami Uniw1rsity. After placing 33rd in the competition a year ago, Ketelhohn showed dramatic improvement, finishing ninth in the three-meter event with a score of 407.95. Hhiana Saunders dovn to a 12th-place linish with a 380.5 total. In her first-ever NCAA appearance, freshman Jessiea Johnstone fin­ished one spot behind Saunders in 13th place. Karli Hichards rounded out the Irish squad placing 30th. 
This weekend's NCAA Championship marked the end of another record-setting season for Notre Dame and closed out Gallo's remarkable carenr. The Irish will definitely miss their leader, but shouldn't lose a step with the likes of Suddarth, Kline, and Nixon waiting in the wing. 


Listening Session with Professor O'Hara 
T 
he University Committee on Cultural Diversity will sponsor a Listening Session with Professor Patricia O'Hara on Tuesday evening, March 24, from 7:30 until9 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
-Professor O'Hara will offer a 15-minute reflection on issues related to multicultural challenges and concerns at Notre Dame. After Professor O'Hara's comments, those in attendance will be invited to share their comments and concerns with her. 
Refreshments will be served. · 
... 

·­

Tuesday, March 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
If YOU see SPOrts haPPening~ call the Observer sPorts desk 
•

at 1-4543 
M.Tennis 
continued from page 28 
the opportunity to play and help the team." 
The combos won the doubles poi-nt with Rothschild and Freeman, and Horsley and Sachire picked up the wins. · 
Patterson registered a 6-2, 6­4 victory, while Horsley robbed Ray Jarmillo of a win, 6-0, 6-2 in singles. Eric Enloe, at No. 5, blasted Takeshi Itoh, 6-3, 6-3. 
In Saturday's semi-finals, the · Irish plucked Harvard out of the tournament, 4-2. Sachire, Patterson, and Horsley all reeled in two-set victories, after the No. 2 and 3 doubles earned the first point of the match against the Ivy Leaugers. 
Sachire served Thomas Blake a 6-3, 7-6 termination at the No. 1 spot. Horsley chased down Scott Clark, 6-2, 6-4 while Patterson caught John Doran, 6-4, 7-5. 
In the finals, Notre Dame sprung to a quick start, sweep­ing the doubles. Patterson and . Pietrowski earned their first doubles win of the competition, 8-4, while the No. 2 and 3 pairs again flexed their strength. The Rothschild-Freeman duo and the partners of Horsley and Sachire defeated both their opponents in 8-1 wins. 
Singles, however, seemed like 
a different match. Or maybe 
even an entire different game 
from the Irish perspective. 
"[Boise State] came right out 
of the blocks and started 
attacking," Bayliss said. "Then 
it became a war." 
Patterson and Horsley again 
proved their dependability in 
singles, with solid wins. 
After Pietrowski, Rothschild, 
and Enloe lost, the match was 
put into the hands of Sachire. 
The Observer/Joe Stark 
Despite his usual success, Ryan Sachire suffered a pivotal loss to 
Boise State in the Classic's finals. 
The pivotal battle took place on center court where Sachire and Boise State's Dan Mercker fought for bragging rights of Blue-Gray champion. 
Tied at 3-3, Sachire clung to the hopes of victory, but wound up slipping off the rope in the tug-of-war match, 6-4, 3-6, 6­4. 
"It was fun to be out there," Sachire said. "It's a situation you dream of, but I feel bad I wasn't able to come through for the team." 
The Irish can take solace, however, in their performance. Adjusting to the weather which consisted of high winds and low's of 40 degrees, Notre Dame advanced their winning tally to nine out of their last 10. They also signed their names among the nation's top teams with their strong wins. 
"The matches were hard fought, and Boise State was a strong team," Bayliss said. "We played well, and we're not going to dwell on the loss." 
WHAT CAN I DO WITH.A
. . 
DEGREE IN MATHEMATICS? 
Many career opportunities are available to students with degrees in MATHEMATICS. The training and analytical sl~ills acquired. in studying mathematics are precisely what many companies and professional schools lool~ for. Here are some of the careers pursued by recent Notre Dame Graduates in mathematics. 
•Actua'rial Positions in the Insurance Industry 
• Computer Programming and Systems Analysis 
• Management Consulting 
• Post-graduate Study in Business Administration,_ Computer Science, Engineering, Law, Mathematics, Medicine, Music 
For information about majoring in mathematics contact Prof. Dennis Snow (snow.l@nd.edu), Dept. of Mathematics, room 203, or come to the 
SpotligLt PrograiD for MatLeiDali~s -Tuesday, Mar~L ~4, 7-8 p.ID. RooiD ~~6 CCMB 
Tuesday, March 24, 1998

page 26 The Observer • SPORTS 
• BASEBAll 
Irish look for cooperation from Mother Nature 
Baseball team hopes to play first game in 13 days 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
.lust considPr it pitching on 12 days rest. 
For·tlw first timo si-nce a 4-3 win against Southern Illinois on March I I. tlw Notre Damn basPball tPam will take the lield for a ganHL The Irish host 
Cinc inn ati at r-------------, Frank Eck 
Stadium with only I(, games under their belts nearly two 

months after 
vs
tlw IIJ9R season began. Since the 
Cincinnati Southern Illinois contest. 
Today -5:05pm
the Irish have fallen victim to 
Frank Eck Stadium"' 
the weather.
Hai n or snow t._____________, 
forced the cancellation of seven games, including two Big East conference doubleheaders in Providence and Connecticut last weekend. 
Short of building a second dome on eampus, the team is faced with only two alterna­tives -practicing indoors and praying for dry days. 
"We got outside [yesterday] for the lirst time in about two weeks," said catcher Jeff Wagner. "It felt good to be out there; we've been getting sort of cramped up practicing inside." 
lot more relaxing." 
The Irish have been itching to return to the diamond, boasting seven wins in their last eight games. 
"Early in the year our pitch­ing was looking good, but our hitting needed some adjust­ments." said Wagner. "Then our hitting was on and our pitchers were struggling. In the last few games, we've really put our pitching and hitting together." 
Sophomore Brant Ust leads the team at the plate, batting .350 on the year with 12 RBI 
and three IIHs. Juniors Wagner and Allen Greene have also put up big num­bers in the young sea­son, hitting .339 and .308, respec­tively, with 13 HBI 
a P i e c e · 
Wagner is tied for the team lead 

with four home runs. 
But senior captain J.J. Brock has been the recent offensive hero for the Irish. Brock earned Big East Player of the Week honors after going 8-for­16 with two homers and six . RBI in San Antonio. 
A core of juniors leads the Irish pitching staff. which has a deceiving 5.50 ERA that dips to 
2.47 when excluding the three rocky outings against national powerhouse Miami. 
Alex Shilliday paces the staff 


with a 2.70 ERA and 37 strike­outs. In his last two games, Shilliday allowed one earned run, walked two and fanned 19. 
Brad Lidge earned Big East Pitcher of the Week accolades after tossing seven shutout innings in an 8-0 win over Southwest Texas State. 
After an up-and-down cam­paign in the early season, the 
coming homestand provides an opportunity for the Irish to extend their three-game win streak before a home crowd. 
But only if the weather coop­erates. 

This week's somewhat favor­able forecast bodes well for the Irish. who are scheduled to play four games in the next three days. 
After its home-opener against Central Michigan on Feb. 25, Notre Dame hit the road again for a seven game swing in Evansville, Ind., and San Antonio, Tex., bnfon1 returning home for nine straight games. 
"It's a lot easier playing at home," said Wagner. "We just roll out of bed go to class and head out to the ball field. It's a 
Mother Nature might not like baseball season, but she likes it when you
-
recycle The Observer. 
-
.. 
·Po 
OfiJii/J 
Coo~ 
ollts 



The Class of 2000 Council has a great year planned. The Class Council works to coordinate events and activities to enhance the social atmosphere of the University and of the Class. All interested members of the Class of 2000 are encouraged to Join. Applications for next year are available outside room 216 Lafortune. 

·o,q 
\5'~ ~~­
~~ 





a Jlt Lacrosse 
~ Women's Lacrosse 

vs. Duquesne 
Tuesday March 24th 
4:00PM 
Weather Permitting -Moose Krause Rain -Loftus 
-~ ----~­
Tuesday, March 24, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 

SCOTT ADAMS 
FIRST YOU 1-\t>.VE TO LEA.RN HOW TO GIVE YOURSELF A. SPONGE BAT\-\ ~T THE WATER FOUNTA.IN. 
No. 0704 
40 "Roots" Emmy 49 Hares, to hounds winner, 1977 51 Liu Pang's 42 Symbol of 
dynasty authority 52 Velvet finish 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are avatlable by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries: Unresolved issues turn a relationship into a battlefield if they remain unaddressed by the end of the day. Do not tap into Mars' destructive energy. Take the initia­tive if no one else is eager to make things happen. 
Taurus: You see the beauty in something that others nnd unre­markable. Getting into a fight over esthetics is just a waste of every­body's time. Try to reach a consen­sus on how to improve a visual environment. 
Gemini: You find yourself work­ing closely with someone who seems telepathically linked to you. The possible uses for in-tandem thinking are endless. Be on the lookout for your new soulmate today. 
Cancer: Everyone recognizes the sanctity and importance of home. Sometimes it is acceptable to tell the rest of the .world to go jump in the lake. Beware of using this excuse too often, or it will cease to be valid. 
Leo: You receive a long-awaited response today. Be sure that some­one who makes an elaborate promise intends to keep it. Act in good faith and hope for the best. 
Virgo: Your dealings with others seem hollow today. You are sensi­tive to the ultimately selfish way in which most living creatures see the world. Survival is an admirable goal. Now work on putting joy back into your life. 
Libra: Aim high today. This is a time to start new projects. Your people skills are in top form. Even if you act as an aggressive loner. others will be convinced that you are the most sporting team player on the field. 
Scorpio: If you were hoping for a little intrigue to spice up your life, this is the day. Someone who works close to you is about to show anoth­er face. Don't take it all too person­ally. and today's events could be amusing. 
Sagittarius: The life of Sagittarius is delightfully compli­cated by another, smaller archer named Cupid. New romances blos­som. and old ones heat up again. A hot evening lies in wait for the unsuspecting. 
Capricorn: The best way to address any career issue is to pump lots of positive energy into your work. Turn obstacles into incentives and defeat into chal­lenge. Your alternative is to have a miserable day. 
Aquarius: Your beliefs are mere­ly shadows from which to emerge into the bright light of knowledge. Anything is possible today. If you remain aloof from others. you will miss a lot. 
Pisces: Do not give more than you are willing to lose. Generosity is a kindness, not the law. It will be easier to tell someone "no" today than to break him of a bad habit later on. 

DILBERT 
ACROSS 

1 Word after a loss 
5 It goes w1th being snowbound 
15Costof occupation 16 "Forest pnmeval' figure 11 Mamage s1te 1n John 2 1 
18 N1ckname of Emperor Frederick I 
19 Short summary 
21 "Mission Impossible· actress 
22 Jerk 23 Abandon 24 Art follower 25 Make jerky? 26 Unaware 
E 
8 
i 
i ,g 
28 Second-century anatomist 29 Time of one's life 
JOAbstract sculptor Sir Anthony 
31 Table, so to speak 32 Cheapskate 34 Oahu outsiders 37 A hole in the wall? 38Way to go: Abbr. 41 Park alcove 42 Ticket dispenser 44 Safari camp 45 Highly complimentary 46 Main line 47 Govt. org., 1887-1996 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
AFT.GSAIHEF.HAD C A H 0 0 T S 0 N A 0 A R E A C E R B I C G E N E R I C D E :J; D. L 0 wCS• Z E L D A 
-WANT T ~~l!l!_M~ SA H < B sllc .~,!'­L E 0 N A A F 0 R E U ~~ U R N S J U x J I P I N K 
'Nfi'E BANJO
\<'E~T~~~~S ARNIE TERES
liljE V E L.CHEAP 0­
A R R 0 W. A K I N. A :l; D A 
L A w L E s'SI L oG 1 cA L 
U P A T R E E T R I D E N T M T S. V E A S A G. S K A 
CA.N YOU SPAR£. 501"\E RESOURCES, LADY? 
HOW A.BOUT ii-\AT 
INTERN? ARt. YOU 
USING HIM? 
Edited by Will Shortz 

48 "Crucifixion of 36 Bluer than blue 43 Half 38 Krypton, e.g. 45 Adjust the 39 Perform a tailoring 
St. Peter"  
pa~nter Guido  
49 Electrician's  
need  
501961 Paul  
Newman film  
53 Richard of "A  
Summer Place"  
54 Ma1den lover "in  
a kingdom by  
the sea"  
55 Art  
philanthropist  
Sir Henry  
56 Petite  
57 River crossing  
France's Nord  
department  
DOWN  
1 Santa Anita  
race track site  
2 Like some  
lizards  
JOneofTV's  
Mouseketeers  
4 Calone  
category  
5 Philippine island  
or its seaport  
6 Actress Gardner  20 King, maybe  
7 Opera with the aria "Largo al factotum," with "The"  24 "Rats'" 25 Lt.-Maj. go-between 27 Roast site  
8 Behind, with ''of" 9 Marsh of mystery  28 Blanket 31 Loaded (with) 32Wild plum 33 Better than  
10 Fossil  never?  
impressiCJn  34 Home for  
11 "Evil Woman"  ecologists  
rock grp.  35 Weaver of myth  



chemical test 48 Lip shade 
Wanted: Reporters, and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
-








