
1 
l 
I i 
l 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 47 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 
AFP Pholo 
• A look at Judy Chicago, the artist who has helped put female art on the map. 
Women's News • 3 
THE 
• Is the band getting the respect it deserves when 
Wednesday
people seem preoccupied with throwing food during half-time of football games? 
NOVEMBER 
Viewpoint • 11 
4, 1998 


DEMOCRATS DASH GOP DREAMS 
By ROBERT PAZORNIK News Writer 
If 1994 was thn year of tlw Hepublican. tlwn 199X is tlw year of thn Hepubliean upsnt. 
For only the second time in the past two dncades, the party of the President gairwd seats in the midterm Senate elections. 
Although the Hnpublican Senate m aj ori ty stay11d unchanged at 55-45, Democrats took four seats from the GOP incumbnnts that analysts expected to eruisn to victory. 
This was no ordinary elne­tion. 
Coming off' the heels of' onn of the most publieized scan­dals in American history, thn 1998 midterm Senate nlnctions brought about soveral dramat­ic upsets nationwidn. 
Most notably, GOP incum­bent Alfonso [)'Amato was knocked from his long-held perch by Democratic House repn~sentative Charles Schumer. North Carolina Hepubliean Lauch Faircloth suffered a similar fall to Democrat John Edwards. 
Exit poll data confirmed the results of last week's NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll 
see SENATE I page 6 

House balance shifts ELECTION Senate Shakedown
Sweet Victory 
ND grad Tim Roemer, D-lnd., 
An al-a-glance chart l~( Democratic New York Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan (above easily wins his .fifth-straight which candidates won , plus a left) congratulates fellow Democrat and senator-elect Charles term; Democrats gain 6 closer look at Illinois and Schumer (right), who defeated incumbent Republican Sen. 
House seats ....... see p. 7 Indiana races ........... see p. 6
Alphonse D'Amato in Tuesday's election. 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
SMC gets ready for Fall Day 
ByJESSICA DELGADO 
News Writer 

The Sainl Mary's Admission office will set a new school record for prospective students this Sunday, according to Emily Koelsch, admissions commissioner. 
The number of students that came to Fall Day On C<tmpus hovered around 170 in previ­
see BOG I pagl' 8 


World Bank aims to incorporate cultural events 
By MAGGY TINUCCI he past is vital for its use in th11 NrwsWrit,·r futurn." Culture is an important factor 
Thn World Hank is taking steps of nconomie change, Glade said, that rninlim~n thn importance of which is defined within three cultural 11vnnts in nconomic aroas. dnVI'lopmnnt, said William c;Iad11. The first or thesn is cultural a profnssor of l~eorwmies the assumptions, which indudes val­UnivPrsity of Tnxas at Austin and ues. beliefs, knowledge, under­lwad of tlw Mnxiean Centnr at standing or how the world func­tlw lnstitutn of Latin Ameriean tions, scinntil'ic inquiry, motiva­~tudies. tions and attitudes. These lead to 
"Thn Bank is taking provoea­the development of an incentive live stnps to bring togetlwr the structure. The second defining tlm~ads of analysis that went on area includes cultural specific through lmrlier litnrature as well soda! organizations. This means as eurrnnt litnrature in order to constitutions, laws and regula­
undnrstand thn rnlationships tions, and public policy to some The Observer/Dave LaHeisl betwnen eulturn and nconomie extent. William Glade, professor of economics, spoke of the importance of dnvnlopment," said Glade. "An This presents a continuum of culture as a factor in economic change. nmphasis on cultural heritage of the organization itself, which is firm, market and civil state in social structure, dass structure, prnserving. protecting, and recy­the household and familial struc­between. and networks," said Glade. ding the growing body of lixcd ture on one end, the nation state "This includes the relationships 
capital we have inherited from on the opposite end, with the between people, which includes see CULTURE 1page 8 

page2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Put it on tny tab 
Stop wasting my money. 
Waffie Irons: You know, I really enjoy the new renovations to the South Dining Hall. The food is a lot better, it looks nicer, and Reekers is a godsend. 

But do I really need Dan Sullivan 
the Notre Dame Logo StaffCanoonist 
on my waffies? How 
much do vanity waffie 
irons cost,anyway? Well, whatever the price 
is, it's a waste of my money. 
Sprinklers: What do you think Notre Dame 
pays to pump all that water onto the side­
walks right after a thunderstorm? I haven't 
got the foggiest idea, but already it's too 
much. 
Art: I hope to god the University isn't pay­
ing for that. If it is, I entreat them to stop for 
the sake of us all. 
Scooters: Okay, campus police have cars, 
trucks, and bikes. You know what I really 
think they need? Big wheels! What are these 
new scooters? I know it's not to keep the 
squad cars off the grass because I see them 
on the quads every night. Has there really 
been such a jump on campus crime that they 
need police scooters? And in the winter will 
the scooters still be in use? I doubt it. 
Scooters, another waste of my money. 
Athletic Buildings: Now granted I'm always 
seeing people run about campus and around 
the lakes, so I imagine you all work out as 
well. Personally, I never set foot in those 
places to work out. It cuts into my smoking 
habit. But my question is, if pretty much all 
the dorms have work-out rooms and we have 
the Rock, why do we need Rolfs Rec Center? 
Last time I checked I was going to a universi­
ty, not a summer camp. For others I guess 
it's useful, but for me it's a waste of money. I 
think the University should buy me a pack of 
smokes. After all, that which doesn't kill you 
makes you stronger, and I'm not dead yet so I 
guess you could say I've been working out, 
too. 
Flex 14: The biggest scam of them all. I 
can't afford my third meal of the day with 
Notre Dame prices! 
Studying Abroad: From what I hear classes 
across the Atlantic are a lot cheaper, yet you 
still pay as if you were studying here. Now 
frankly, I haven't studied abroad, and I didn't 
really do any research, but I figure it's worth 
the senseless raving. 
The point, you may be wondering, is this ­
I'm spending approximately $100,000 in my 
four years here. I just want to know where 
it's all going. I've looked. but I can't find it. If 
I'm paying for police big wheels, sidewalk 
watering, and vanity wafl1e irons, I think I'm 
wasting my money. But more importantly, I 
think it's wasting money that could be better 
spent on something else, like putting more 
gold on the dome or in-depth studies on the 
benefits of parietals. My fear is I'm not get­
ting what I'm paying for, and unfortunately 
the University doesn't have a money-back 
guarantee. Otherwise. I'd be cashing it in 
right now and back in sunny Florida where I 
belong. 
If you have a problem with anything in this 
little tirade, please feel free to write. Just 
send it via e-mail. I wouldn't want to waste 
any of the paper I bought in the computer 
labs on your opinion. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are. those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFf  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Emmett Malloy  
Anne Marie Maningly  Dominic Caruso  
Christine Kraly  Jenn Zatorski  
Chris Lawler  Graphics  
Sports  Mark Higgins  
Anthony Bianco  Production  
Viewpoint  Brian Kessler  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Jeff Hsu  

Tho Obsorv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction righ[s are reserved. 

Wednesday, November 4, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Medical student pleads guilty to criminal sexual conduct 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
University medical student and for­mer Boy Scout troop leader Alan Michael Scott pled guilty Monday to one count of third-degree criminal sexual conduct for molesting a minor in his scout troop. 
Scott, 26, faced three charges stem­ming from numerous incidents of alleged sexual misconduct with the troop member at a camp in northern Minnesota and at Scott's residence between 1995 and 1997. 
In return for the guilty plea, two of the charges were dropped. 
Scott now faces a maximum of one year in a non-prison facility such as a workhouse, defense attorney Tina Appleby said. 
Prosecuting attorney Paul Young said a motion was filed to introduce other instances of misconduct into the trial. He said three different individu­als -one minor and two adults ­planned to testify that Scott also 

········H 
Wednesda~ 41 
Thursday  c:=1  44  
Friday  c:=1  45  
\Saturday  ~45  

Sun··d·ay a 45
s 
·. f' , .........
•. r· t ..... <,_;,,,, 
}~)'· ;·.:: ,...............,/ ··:.r' 


touched them inappropriately. 
Charges could be brought for those incidents in the future if enough crim­inal evidence arises. 
After Hennepin County Judge Thomas Carey announced that a plea. was offered, Scott stoically took the witness stand and admitted that he knew the victim, had substantial sex­ual contact with the victim before July 13, 1997, and that he knew the victim was under age 16. 
Members of the victim's family said they had no interest in making any comment. The victim was present when Scott took the stand. Scott was 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 

Homeless man is attacked on campus 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
University police are looking for two men who attacked a homeless man as he slept on campus Saturday night. The homeless man was sleeping on a campus ventilation grate between the University Health Center and Bancroft Hall when he was attacked by two men armed with bricks early Sunday, University Police Mylo Bushing said. Around 3 a.m., the homeless man was awaR'ened by the two men stepping over him. The man sat up and told them he did not want any trouble. The victim thought the two men had left when they started to throw bricks at him, Bushing said. The bricks hit him in the face, foot and leg, cutting his lip, which later required seven stitches. "This type of thing is senseless," Bushirig said. The victim was taken to BryanLGH West Medical Center where he was treated for his injuries, and doctors c~tlled police to report the attack. The victim described his attackers as white men, both approximately 5 feet 9 inches tall with brown hair. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND 

Students celebrate Tibetan culture 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 
Maryland Students for a Free Tibet present Tibetan 
Cultural Awareness Week on campus, a five-day celebration 
of art, music and film from Tibet. Students for a Free Tibet 
plan to educate the campus community about the culture 
and traditions of the Tibetan people and raise awareness of 
the probkms in Tibet this week. Tibet was invaded in 1950 
by communist China and is still under their occupation. The 
Student Union plays host to the week of events including a 
film screening, creation of traditional Buddhist sand art 
piece, and a concert pefformance by Buddhist nuns with 
American musicians. The week's first event was a free 
screening of the 1997 Martin Scorsese film, "Kundun," 
Sunday night. Tuesday Tibetan Buddhist monks began cre­
ating a mandala sand painting in the Parents Association 
Gallery. A mandala, or cpsmogram, is an arrangement of 
colored sands in a large, intricate pattern that is said to 
affect purification and healing. 

• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
Honduran students lead hurricane relief 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

A business sophomore and food science senior, part of the less than two dozen Honduran students at UF, are organiz­ing a relief drive for the Hurricane Mitch victims in Honduras. Solange Suazo and Gabriel Cosenza, both who have family in Honduras, are asking the community to donate supplies that will be sent to Honduras, where more than 5,000 already have died from Mitch. "We need as much help as we can get because no one knows about Honduras," said Suazo, whose father lost his plantation to Mitch. Suazo said the small percentage of Honduran stu­dents at UF is more of a reason for all students to pull together and give what they can. UF enrollment records state that as of Fall 1997, 13 Honduran students were enrolled at UF, which has about 43,000 students. Last week, Mitch swept through Honduras with 180 mile-per-hour winds, destroying 70 percent of the country's harvest. People are still sitting on rooftops awaiting rescue. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY 
Medical school applicants at a low 
CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 

The number of applications to U.S. medical schools has fallen for the second year in a row, the Association of American Medical Colleges !AAMCJ announced last week. Nationwide, the number of applications to medical schools fell to 41 ,003 this year from 43.020 in 1997 -a dedine of almost 5 percent. Last year, the AAMC reported a drop of roughly 8 percent from the record high of 46,968 set in 1996, an AAMC press release said. According to the Oflice of Career Services [OCS], the number of students applying to medical school from Harvard is consistent with the national trend. The number of Ilarvard-Hadcliffe graduating seniors applying to medical school droppPd 18 percent last year ­falling from a high of 262 in 1996 to 214 in 1997. Alumni applicants fell from 249 in 1996 to 215 in 1997 -a decrease of 14 percent. While the AAMC has not yet released the figures from this year for individual schools. OCS expects a similar decline. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Nov. 4. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

L 
26 25 25 25 
"' 1998 AceuWeather, lne. 
35'Il~ 

High Low Showers Rain T~storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press 
Aspen 39 16 Hartford 46 
Auburn 69 48 Helena 48 Boise 52 34 Lincoln 40
4,~,~8G8 ~ in u 
Boston 46 34 Madison42
Showers T--storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Camden49 30 Malibu 72
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

not available for comment. 
Scott's status as a medical student and employee at Fairview-University Hospital are still in question. 
"When we get a chance to review the plea agreement, we will evaluate his status and decide on appropriate action," said Keith Dunder, counsel for the Academic Health Center. 
Young said that it was a very appro­priate outcome for Hennepin County. He also said it is very common for defendants to wait until trial to change a plea. 
"They try to get all the time and protection the law will allow," Young said. 
Scheduled to begin Oct. 26, the attorneys spent two days selecting the jury and another hearing pre-trial motions. 
Appleby said her client decided to plea-bargain Monday because the consequences of going to trial were great. 
26  NY  48  36  
23  Phoenix 79  55  
25  Seattle  53  45  
22  Tulsa  47  35  
54  Wichita  44  31  


L...____________________:_____________ 
------~----------­Wednesday, November 4, 1998 page 3 

THE CAREER OF JUDY CHICAGO 

'Wo01anhouse' beco01es first curriculuDl for fe01ale artists 

By I.ISA MAXBAUER matter," according to authors Wollll'll\ Nl'w~ Fdiror Notrama Broudo and Mary 
In tlw .-arly I <J70s. .I udy Chi<'ago sought to providt> young l'<•n~<tl<· artists with tlw support tlwy would IJP<'d to ovpn·onw disrrimination similar to what slw l'an•d in h.-r own ran~n. 
"I'm V<'I'V riiiH'PriH'd about tiH' f'arlthat s;, many worn<'n go into tlw <·oll.-g.-art syst.-rn and so 1'.-w romP out tlw otht•r <'rHI into prol'<'ssional Iii'<'," Clrirago said in OIH' intPrViPW. 
lh<'SP COIH'I'I'nS S(laWtWd WorrranlrousP, an art <'duration program for wonwn foundnd at Fn•sno StatP Uniwrsity and whirh rrrov.-d to the California Institute of Arts in Val1mcia in 
J<J71. 
Clrieago fdt it "was important to establish a historical context for the art the students were making. art with female subject Garrard in "Tiw Power of FPrninist Art." 
Tlwy said Chicago pionenrml a curriculum in whirh there nxist­Pd very little information rPgarding women's place in art history. 
This program. oxtraetPd from campus and sot up in an aban­dorwd mansion. is an early soun:n of fmninist art. Chicago lwlinvml it was crucial for tlw fPrrraiP studnnts to distane1~ thnrns1dves from tlwir male­dominated institution. 
Tlw curator of I'C!ueation at the Snite Museum of Art. Gina Costa. describes Womanhouse as an "exclusively [women's! environment focusing on women's dreams and fantasies. 
"Once I lifted the lid, there was an explosion, and it was almost beyond belief," Chicago said, 


Judy Chicago's work strives to rewrite 'herstory' 
By LISA MAXBAUER 
Women's Nrws Ediror 
.Judy Chirago, intPrnationally rnnowrwd artist. author and fPrninisl. will share lwr triumphs and struggles tonight on tlw Saint Mary's Collng1~ rampus. 
IIPr prPsi~IH'I' is nxpPI'lPd to attract an audience of pen­piP rwar and far who an~ Pagm· to listPn to the female fiu:e of' art hislorv. 
Doug 'IYIPr, a Saint Mary's art pro-1'<-ssor. initially conlaclPd Chirago last spring about visiting. 
"J'vP had stun· of lwrs sitting in my ollirP for yPars thinking it would be p;rnat to have lwr as a visiting artist," 'IYIPr said. 
Chirago has hPnn dPsl:ribed as mw of tlw most influential fnmaln artists in hislorv. In tlw art world, "slw's hugP," s<tid Saint Mary's art major StPphanie I.andcaster. "And slw 's actually mming lwrn and talking to us." 
I.andcastm· added that "all the students I know are v1~ry PxcitNI, too." Chicago has "an ability to inspire otlwr 1wopiP," she said. 
I.anrkastnr said that many art students are prnparing for tlw visit by studying about the legendary artist. StudPnts an• "learning about her struggles and realizing that Ith1~y an~ I not in it alonn," explained Land easter. 
~~mphasizing the impact of Womanhouse. 
The "explosion" is still felt today . .Johnson Bowles, prof'es­sor at Saint Mary's, recalled vm·y f'ew women artists men­tioned in collnge courses a little over a decadn ago. 
"There worn no women artists in my art history books except Georgia O'Keefl'e and Mary Cassatt," said Bowles. 
She iixprnssed her excitenwnt at studying .Judy Chicago in graduate school, nothing that reading about Chicago's educa­tional efl'orts became an impor­tant influence in her career. 
"[Chicago] really empowered me as an artist," she said. "I always knew what I wanted to talk about in my work, mainly women's issues and personal experiences, but I had no idea others were doing the same 
see ARTISTS I page 4 

Chicago 
continued from page 3 
Leisa Rundquist. curator of the South Bend Regional Museum, has heard positive feedback about Chicago's upcoming visit. "I know people coming from out of town. from the Chicago area, and maybe even as far away as Alabama [to hear Chicago speak]." Rundquist said. "If someone appeals that much, people are 
willing  to  travel  a  long  dis­ 
tance."  
Tyler  added,  "It  is  always  

phenomenal to meet someone of that stature." 
Chicago has been a working artist for over three decades. She has reached fame through works such 



~~pa~g~e~4~--------------------------------T~h=e~O~bs=e~rv~er~·-~~O~~~E=~~'S~~~E~VV~S~--------------------~
Chicago's "Birth Project" is an example of her distinction from 

\ Dinner
other artists. 'The theme is childbirth -a theme that has 
continued from page 3 

rarely appeared in art," said Costa. acted subdued," said Tyler, "she might not have 
However, Chicago's career made the impact." has not been all glory and no Rundquist also recognizes the attention "The pain. At a young age Chicago Dinner Party" received as being controversial. "dreamed about a time when "[It] is so presumptuous, so big, so many people my work would become part of involved, so much money invested ... it might the 'universal' art we were told have seemed intimidating to people," said 
about -a universality I later 

Rundquist. "Maybe audiences felt they needed to painfully learned excluded 
be more conservative in approaching it, being women and people of color." 
more critical," she added. Much of Chicago's work has 

Rundquist speculated that some audiences also been heavily scrutinized 
as "The woman. 

Chicago started at 
Dinner Chicago 

Womanhouse because it altered 
'IBELIEVED THE CYCLE OF
Party," "Birth realized that 

how the world perceived female 
Project," HISTORY COULD BE BRQ-women were 
artists. 
"Powerplay," expected to 

"It really changed my life and
KEN AND THAT WOMEN'S
and "The "reinvent 

what I did. It didn't make the 
Holocaust HERITAGE COULD BE KNOWN the wheel" 

kind of work I was doing any 
easier," Bowles said, but noted
Project." AND REVERED." in each of 
" S h e focused on women's issues and bridged the gap between fine arts and crafts," said Gina Costa, Curator of Education at the Snite Museum of Art. who viewed Chicago as an influen­tial figure in the "pattern and decoration" movement. 
Landcaster agrees it is "excit­ing to hear someone say it is okay to do traditional women's crafts [in art]." 
Although Chicago deals with feminine issues. Tyler feels any­one can benefit from her work. "A good percentage of male artists would look favorably on her work," Tyler said. 
Chicago's enormous influence on art history is due to much more than hard work. Her cre­ations gained attention because they were considered new and aggressive. 
over the years. When critics degraded her most visible piece, "The Dinner Party," as 


Artists
"genitalia served up on plates," Chicago endured. She contin­
continued from page 3 ued creating the images she needed to create as an artist. 
kind of work." and a Bowles thanks the legacy 

A 
SPECIAL INVITATION 

Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r---, r---, r---, r---, r---, 
I 10%off I I $5 off I I $60 II $30 I I $70 I I A veda I I Cut and I I Col~, ~ut & I I Manicure 11 Hilites & Cut I I Makeup I I Style I I ty e I I d& I I & Style I 
L ---.J L ---.J L0.!!: ~o~s.J L !".:::,u:, .J L ---.J 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
Stylist: This offer NOT valid with Cindy. 
Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide, and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to see you soon. 

No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires 11/30/98. 
1357 N. Ironwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 



ed_n_es_d~~~·-N_o_v_em_b_e_r_4_,_19_9_8 
questioned, "Who was [Chicago] to think she could make a masterpiece?" 
Yet "The Dinner Party" has often been referred to as a masterpiece. It remains one of the most recognizable female works of art in curriculums today. 
Chicago's goals for "The Dinner Party" seemed to be both instructional and political. Costa believes it "educated women about their unique contributions to history in today's world." 
Tyler believes this type of work by Chicago set the stage for change in artistic politics. The new attitude seen in Chicago's work "demanded women's art be taken seriously," Tyler said. The universal seriousness was identical to what Chicago demanded from herself. 
content, getting at the content, and then determining the most appropriate forms to express that content," Chicago stated. 
An idea introduced to stu­dents was "central-core imagery." This describes utiliz­ing images that are reminiscent of female sexual organs in art­work. These forms continually reemerge in contemporary art work made by women. 
"[Chicago] is probably the most famous female artist ever," said Leis a Rundquist, curator of the South Bend Regional Museum. 
Rundquist finds it odd that Chicago is left out of so many contemporary texts on art his­tory. This present-day fact reflects the gender discrimina­tion that Chicago has rebelled against for thirty years. 
Doug Tyler, the Saint Mary's professor responsible for arranging Chicago's visit to campus, hopes the artist will infect Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students with her ener­gy to succeed. "Unfortunately those issues [that Chicago fought to overcome in the sev­enties] still exist today," said Tyler. 
Tyler believes that Chicago has always been an educator with a strong voice. 
Class Dinner 
"Things have changed," he said, "but haven't changed completely. Levels of discrimi­nation, levels of expectations of gender persist [in the art world] in a subdued form, making it harder to combat." 
Both Bowles and Tyler admit that artistic politics are improv­ing. Chicago's persistence to educate has been influential in the women's art evolution. 
"She affected so many of us a:t a turning point in this century," Bowles said. 
The ideals Chicago taught have influenced the art world from not only a creation aspect, but an exhibition aspect as well. 
"[Many] curators today have in the backs of their mind what [Chicago] had to say because her message was so clear," said Bowles. This "echo" has helped increasing amounts of women's work become exhibited in museums and galleries across the nation, she continued. 
Chicago will be lecturing on Saint Mary's campus tonight educating future artists about her experiences. 
"I hope she leaves a greater understanding of her own struggles as a model of what our own students may face one day," Tyler said. 
their art projects, JUDY CHICAGO making it 
FEMINIST ARTIST n e a r l Y 
impossible 
for them to 
evolve in the art world. 
"I believed the cycle of history 
could be broken and that 
women's heritage could be 
known and revered," she said. 
It is passion and perseverance 
that has allowed Chicago to 
slowly rewrite women's art his­
tory, or "herstory." 
"The repercussions of what 
she started are so important," 
concluded Bowles. 
Chicago has authored several 
books about her experience as 
a female artist in a society that 
discriminates against feminine 
art forms. She has received 
numerous honors and now 
travels across the country lec­
turing. She is also currently 
working on a project entitled, 
"Resolutions: A Stitch in Time." 

• Located 0.2 miles from Notre Dame 
• 
Now leasing two bedroom apartments for the '98-'99 school year 

• 
Short term, flexible leases at affordable 


rates 

that it was enlightening for her to know she had some sort of support group. 
Bowles also read about Chicago's teaching philosophies in order to understand how to teach women more effectively today. 
In the spring of 1971, Womanhouse opened to the public for an exhibition. Over 9,000 visitors viewed the work and performances of Chicago's students. 
"The impact was just enor­mous," Chicago recalled, "because it was the first time, really, that there was public art with openly expressed female subject matter." 
Womanhouse was significant in "helping people find personal 
ALL YOU CAN EAT TACO BELL Tacos, Nachos, Buritos, Soda $1 per person 5:30-till it's gone, LaFortune Ballroom 

"Ragtime" Tickets 
Showing in Chicago Tickets now on sale at LaFortune front desk $35 (includes bus) 


Brought to you by the Class of2000 Council
Call us at 272-1441 or stop in at 1801/rish Way 


----~ ----~~-------~-----~~-~----------~--,_-----.----------~-------------,, 

Wednesday. November 4, 1998 
• i/ 0 I 0 • :ws l"!=iJErS 
Israel delays Mideast accord 
.I I~ BUSAI.I ~M 

lsr<H'I said Ttu~sday it will not carry out thP land-l'or·SPI'llrily pnat'l' agrnnment until it gnts assurancPs that tlw l'aiPstinian Authority will arn~sl :w l'all'stinian l'ugitiws. raising ques­tions about wlwllwr thl' arrord could be ilnpiPml'niNI. Tlu· l'all'stinians said tlw Unitnd Stall's was satislil'd with tlwir anti-terror plan and arrusnd !'rime Minister Bnnjamin NPtanyahu of' sl'izing a prl'tnxt to avoid hand­ing owr WPst Bank land. Tlw pean~ ac~ord, sign"d Ort. 2:~ in Maryland. was to have taken Pll'nl'l. Monday but was d1dayl'd at the request of' NPlanyahu. Under tlw agrnemnnt. the first installnwnt of' an Israeli troop pullback l'rom 
I :1 JlPI'I'Pnt of' Uw West Bank is dun on Nov. 16. 
U.S. 
Pnvoy I>Pnnis Boss was to arrive Thursday to ovPrseP impiPnwntation of' the program that is to hn carrind out over 12 weeks. 

U.S. 
consults Saudis on Iraq 


WASIIINC;H>N 

Warning again of' a possible military 
altark on Iraq, top Clinton administration 
oiTirials sought tlw Colqwration of Saudi 
Arabia. a key player in tlw Persian Gull' and 
in tlw U.S.-IPd combat operation against 
Baghdad night y1Htrs ago. As Del'ense 
Sl'I'I'Ptary William Coh1~n llnw ovnrnight to 
tlw n~gion. with Saudi Arabia his first stop, 
VirP Presidnnt AI Gore and Secretary of 
Stat.P Madnleine Albright made sPparatr. 
t1•lnphonn calls to Crown Prince Abdallah, 
first in lirw to ailing King Fahcl. In 
Washington. tlw Statr. Department cau­
tionPd Amerirans living and -traveling 
abroad that with tensions increasing. "we 
cannot discount tlw possibility of random, 
anti-Amnriean violence in thn evnnt of mili­
tary actions." llownvnr. spok1~sman James P. 
Huhin said: "Wn know of no spncilic threats 
against U.S. citiwns." 
Michigan voters defeat assisted suicide proposal 
DETHOIT 

Vot1~rs in Dr. Jack Kevorkian's homr. 
statP Tuesday n~jected a measure that 
would havP made Michigan the sncond 
statP wilh legalized physician-assisted 
suiridn. An nxit poll based on interviews 
with votnrs as tlwy lnl't prneincts across the 
state said the nHHtsurc~ didn't have r.nough 
support to win. The poll was conducted by 
Votnr News Snrvien for Tho Associated 
l'n~ss and fivn national teltwision outlets. 
Proposal B's dd'nat had lwnn foreshadowed 
by polls. which in weeks lwfore the nleetion 
showPd support Noding under a multimil­
lion-dollar advertising blitz by well-funded 
opporwnts. They included the Michigan 
State Medical Society, thn Homan Catholic 
Church and Hight to Life of Michigan, and 
Citiwns for Compassionate Care. 
I~ @I ijiji\Jrtt§illltiW 
AMEX:
Dow 664...12 }ONES +?.xo 
Nasdm1: 1788.43 
· 12.4H
No 
NYSE:
Change 

551.80 +0.56 
S&P 500: 
Composite 
1110.84 Volume: 
-0.76 701,080,000 V<>I.UME I.I~ADERS 

8,706.15 
rgMr.a~l: Ilf~EI r1 i ll&~'it Si;;U~tj,ii l!lll;E 
('II:NACOkP ('IF.N ·lfdJ .).562~ 111.25 CITI(jR(JlJP INC CCI -4 ~ .. -2.0000 44 12~ IJI:t.l. ('OMPliTl:R IJEI.l -l.M -1.nno h4.J1~ HlMI:CiACORt• IOM +21.74 +1.2~1)(1 7,00 1l'OM CORP COMS -fl.21 -2.2~()() .~4.00 K-TEI INTI. KTEL. +112.7' +6.J7~0 I.U$ CISCO SYSTEMS csco -2.0.1 -I.JIH h:l.J7:'i PAIROAIN TI:CH PAIR -17 H9 -24-lH II.IMH !tilTH CORP INTC uo -U7!'i0 I}(J.4J7!'i YAHOO INC YIIOO ·22M -.'UI2!'i 1421H 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• JOHNSON SPACE CENTER 
AFP Photo 

The robot arm of the U.S. space shuttle discovery prepares to bring the Spartan satellite into the shuttle's cargo bay Tuesday. 


Astronauts retrieve sun satellite 
Asso<:JATED Pnnss 
HOUSTON 
Two days after setting It free, space shuttle Discovery's astronauts retrieved a satellite brimming with hundreds of blazing images of the sun Tuesday. 
The smooth capture was a vindica-. tion of sorts for NASA, which botehed an Harlier attempt to use the satellite, Spartan, during a flight last year. 
Shuttle commander Curtis Brown .Jr. pulled up alongside Spartan, and Stephen Robinson slowly latched onto the 1 1/2-ton satellite with the shuttle robot arm as the spacecraft soared some 340 miles above South America. 
"Got a good grapple of Spartan." Robinson reported. "Great job," Mission Control replied. 
There was no immediate word from Discovery on whether John Glenn broke away from 1\is geriatric research to watch the capture. On Tuesday, he peered over his crew­mates' shoulders with boyish delight when Spartan was released from the shuttl11. 

"To be up here and see a satellite launched from a satellite is quite an experience," the 77 -year-old senator said. 
The last time Spartan flew. last November, it tumbled out of control because of crew errors, and two spacewalking astronauts had to go out and haul it in. Not a single solar observation was obtained. Engineers revamped Spartan's software and improved crew training. 
This time, NASA expects some 1,200 images of the sun's outer atmosphere, or corona, and the charged particles streaming ot1' the sun's surface. About 500 images already have been beamed down to ground controllers, including high· quality pictures of at least one solar flare. 
The $11 million Spartan will remain aboard Discovery for the remaining four days of the flight. On Wednesday, the astronaut.<> will wave the satellite around the shuttle cargo bay on the end of the 50-foot robot arm, relying solely on remotl~ camern views. 
It's practice for the international space station. to be assembled in orbit beginning lator this month. 
Tuesday's retrieval also included space station practice. 
Once they were within sevoral feet of Spartan, the astronauts tested a laser-tracking system intende.d for an automated station-docking system. Brown pitched Discovery's nose up and down. then dipped a wing and backed away to see how well the laser remained locked on tlw satel­lite. 
The results weren't too impres­sivo-the laser dropped in and out for 'a while and was 30 feet off in its dis­tam~e readings at one point. 
• NICARAGUA 

Volcano mudslide buries thousands 
A<;SOCIATED PRESS the death toll here: The Bed Cross said 1,250, while the pres· ident's ollice said 1,338. POSOLTEGA "We have buried some in mass graves, others we have 
llundreds upon hundreds of bodies are buried in the mud buried one by one," Zeledon said, as she hitdwd a ride on that cascaded down Casitas voleano, some with their hair the back of a tractor to where a relief helicopter was landing. <tnd limbs entangled in the sugar cane stalks. "There are still survivors in the hills," she said. "Four hun­
During a two-hour walk out of the Posoltega town center dred have walked out and we believe there are another 450 nnd into the sugar cane fields, 22 of the bodies were seen in alive up there-most of them children." plain, gut-wrenching view-bloated. scratched and crammed Zeledon said rescue workers burying and burning bodies in trees, cane stalks and mud. to prevent the spread of disease had run across survivors in 
The tragedy here occurred Friday morning following the hills, and had informed the military. But she didn't know pounding rains brought by Hurricane Mitch. Part of the vol­if soldiers had gone back to get them. cano's crater collapsed and the lake inside formed a deluge "If they don't get them out, those people will die because down the slope. there is no water, no food," she said. "It would be one more 
"It is full, full of bodies," Ariel Mendoza, a 26-year-old con­massacre." struction worker said, pointing at the volcano. "From where Local Red Cross coordinator Ramiro Gallo said ollicials do the mud starts, down to the sea." not have the equipment to reach survivors in the hills. 
Mayor Felicita Zeledon of Posoltega, the largest city near "It has been four days and people are still there with mud the disaster area, told The Associated Press on Tuesday that up to their waist," he said. 1,950 corpses had been recovered in villages below the vol­Nicaragua's Health Ministry said it was dispatching med­cano. ical brigades to help recover and bury bodies and to fumigate 
Other ollicials gave lower, but still ghastly calculations of the region. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1998 



ELECTION 
Here are the winners of the Senate races and their party affliations. 
KEY 
e Democrat c;) Republican 0 Independent 0 No result 0 No election 
STATE PARTY CHANGE WINNER 

THE SENATE 
GOP carries Midwest 
Neighboring states send political opponents to Senate 
•INDIANA 

Bayh wins as 'Great Society liberal' 
ALABAMA ® "'[;? ALASKA 0 
::{? ··.:.x.··-··· 
ARIZONA ® :-~~ 
---..>.~.---­ARKANSAS }.-.,t 
... ····~,.:_,.··
• 
CALIFORNIA 0 
'"' 
.·---1:~
COLORADO @ 
--··-,­
CONNECTICUT 1'\)'
• 
·:.lr·
FLORIDA 
• ....\.,
GEORGIA 0 l ~~ 
-·······-··---------..;~---­
HAWAII () 
. ..C?
IDAHO ® ILLINOIS 0 {.'{ INDIANA *­
• 
__.\~ 
IOWA ® .H KANSAS @) :•',
¥-~---­
..).-~
KENTUCKY ()
• 
:"" 
LOUISIANA -?r 
• -~·'"(
MARYLAND 
MISSOURI @) --1\·,, .,j. __ NEVADA () t -~ ..~-·-<. NEW HAMPSHIRE @ :...:. 
NEW YORK 
• 
NORTH CAROLINA 
• * 
NORTH DAKOTA *"j:"y
• 
OHIO @) 
.,,,\.,
OKLAHOMA @ !·'· 
* 
...·'..
OREGON 0 :...:. PENNSYLVANIA @I ""~"".; SOUTH CAROLINA ·{::
• 
SOUTH DAKOTA ·t;
•
UTAH @) -::r 
VERMONT 
•0
WASHINGTON 
,--.,
WISCONSIN '{~­
·-• .J 
Composition of the Senate before the election 

GOP OEM 
Richard Shelby ('86) 
NA 
John McCain ('86) Blanche Lambert Lincoln 
NA 
Ben Nighthorse Campbell ('92) Christo13her J. Dodd ('80) Bob Graham ('86) 
NA NA 
Mike Crapo 
NA 
Evan Bayh Charles Grassley ('80) Sam Brownback ('96) 
NA John B. Breaux ('86) Barbara Ann Mikulski ('86) Christopher "Kit" Bond ('86) 
NA 
Judd Gregg ('90) Charles E. Schumer John Edwards Byron Dorgan ('92) George Voinovich Don Nickles ('80) 
NA 
Arlen Specter ('80) 
Ernest "Fritz" Hollings ('66) Thomas Daschle ('86) 
Robert Bennett ('92) 
Patrick Leahy ('74) 
NA NA 
How the new Senate is shaping up 

GOP DEM 

INDIANAPOLIS 
Democrat Evan Bayh won Hoosier's hearts again Tuesday as voters elected the cautious, fiscal conser­vative to the U.S. Senate seat his father, Birch, held largely as a Great Society liberal in the 1960s and 
1970s. • 

Exit polls showed Bayh, Bayh wildly popular as a two-term governor from 1989 to early 1997, with 58 percent of the vote to 42 percent for Republican Fort Wayne Mayor Paul Helmke. 
The poll was based on interviews with vot­ers as they left precincts across the state. It 
•ILUNOIS 

was conducted by Voter News Service for the Associated Press and five national televi­sion outlets. 
Among other things, it showed that a quarter of Republicans voted for Bayh, reaf­firming his ability to draw support from both parties. He never called himself a Democrat in television commercials he ran virtually statewide, preferring instead to use "fiscal conservative" and one who would take a bipartisan approach to Washington. 
Libertarian Rebecca Sink-Burris also was in the race, but was not expected to pick up much support. The former teacher from Bloomington said earlier that she would consider herself lucky to garner 5 percent of the vote. 
Moseley-Braun falls to GOP's Fitzgerald 
CHICAGO 
Carol Moseley-Braun, elected as the nation's first black woman senator on a crusade-like tide of women's votes but hobbled by a series of ethical mis­steps, was defeated Tuesday by free-spending Republican state Sen. Peter Fitzgerald. 

Questions about Moseley-Fitzgerald Braun's campaign finances and her meetings with a Nigerian dictator became central issues in the campaign, ham­mered home for voters through relentless television advertising by Fitzgerald. The con­servative millionaire spent $12 million on his campaign, much of it borrowed against his family's banking fortune. 
With 63 percent of the precincts reporting, Fitzgerald had 1,012,617 votes, or 51 percent, and incumbent Moseley-Braun had 912,663, or 4 7 percent. A smattering of other votes went to Reform Party candidate Don Torgerson. 
defeat, Moseley-Braun did not concede imme­diately. "This race is still far from over," she insisted. "This may be a long night. It may be a nail-biter." 
Moseley-Braun was initially encouraged by a large black turnout in Chicago that went heavily her way, and hoped for support from women turned off by Fitzgerald's opposition to any form of abortion except to save the mother's life. 
Fitzgerald arrived at his suburban head­quarters at 7:30 p.m., carrying his 6-year-old son, Jake, and announcing he felt "cautiously optimistic.... I think that it could be a long night." 
Fitzgerald pinned his hopes on his anti­abortion record and his history as an anti-tax crusader. He also reminded voters repeatedly of Moseley-Braun's August 1996 visit with a Nigerian dictator and continuing controversy over her 1992 campaign funds. 
Much of the money went for ads ripping into Moseley-Braun over a federal investigation of allegations that she and a former campaign manager spent campaign funds on vacations, 
Despite the seeming inevitability of' her cars, jewelry and other personal items. 
Some results were not available at press time. AP 


Senate 
continued from page I 
midterm votes would have very little to do with the possible impeachment of the President. But more than two-thirds of voters did express disapproval with the conduct of Republican investigation into possible crimes by the administration. 
Political analysts at MSNBC cited this malcontent, com­pounded by general apathy toward the scandal altogether. as a prime factor in a handful of the Senate upsets. 
Instead of focusing on Republican accusations of the administration, analysts say voters based their ballots on the status of the economy, which is currently in good shape despite fears of foreign collapse. In fact, 85 percent of those interviewed in the exit polls agreed that the American 
economy is in excellent or good shape. 
"The performance of the economy is one of two major factors in the results of midterm elections," said Saint Mary's professor of political science Pat Pierce in a pre­election interview. "Based on the current outlook, the Republicans won't achieve their high goals." 
These goals included what are now unfulfilled aspirations by party leaders to achieve 60 seats in the Senate, the num­ber needed for a filibuster­proof majority. 
With that scenario, if a vote on Clinton's guilt reached the Senate, the Democrats' inabili­ty to prolong discussion and weaken the guilty vote might ultimately have resulted in a conviction, according to Pierce. 
The other major factor in midterm elections, said Pierce, is the President's approval rat­ing, which Tuesday's exit polls 'THE PERFORMANCE OF 

THE ECONOMY IS ONE OF TWO MAJOR FACTORS IN 
THE RESULTS OF MIDTERM 
ELECTIONS.' 

PAT PIERCE 
POLITICAL SCIENCE PROFESSOR 
gauged at 55 percent. Despite Republican measures to dis­credit Clinton, a majority of voters agreed that he is "on the right track." 
The early defeat of Senate mainstay D'Amato in one of the hottest races of the elec­tion marked one of the more significant Republican losses. Exit polls confirmed that D'Amato's loss came largely as a result of voters' perceptions of his character -over 62 percent of voters believed him dishonest. 
Increased voting by certain New York demographics played a major role in the state's elections. Nearly 62 · percent of women voters cast votes for Schumer, while over 75 percent of the Jewish popu­lation voted in his favor. 
D'Amato's eventual ousting came as a shock to Republican party loyalists, who until Tuesday morning remained confident of his chances. 
"There's no intrigue; we're going to win an election today," said Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich shortly after voting in Marietta, Ga. 
Gingrich was wrong on both counts. Not only did Republicans fail to win the election in the hands-down style they anticipated. but the many significant Democrat vic­tories were cause for serious intrigue. 
The South turned out espe­cially strong support for the 
Democrats, who in addition to electing four new Democratic governors. voted in f'avor of Democratic senator Fritz Hollings. 
In Indiana, Democrat Evan Bayh decisively won the seat vacated by Hepublican Dan Coats, one of' l'ive seats relin­quished by retiring senators. 
In California, incumbent Democrat Barbara Boxer fend­ed ofT Republican candidate Matt Fong, whose tough stance on crime and favorable perfor­mance as treasurer lent him a menacing threat to the Democratic senator. 
Also elected in the 1992 "Year of the Woman," Democratic Washington Sen. Patty Murray secured her seat by a narrow margin over House representative Linda Smith. The third member ol' the '92 Year of the Woman class, Carol Moseley-Braun, was unseated in Illinois by Hepublican Peter Fitzgerald. 

Wednesday, November 4, 1998 The Observer· ELECTION '98 page 7 
THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 

With incumbent help, GOP holds onto House 
A~~nciatcc.l Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Hepublicans rntainml control of the llousn on Ttwsday for another two years hut fail•~d to obtain tho sizable midterm irH:n•as•~s tho party's IIHtders had sought to n~inforcn their impeachment agenda. 
Bucking a historical trend, Democrats piek1HI up a handful of seats -although not Pnough to win back tlw chamber­as the two parties wagml give-and-take haltlns over a relative handful of elosely contested seats. 
For tlw most part. incumbents of both parties swept to victory in an eleetion whose outcome could determine House Speaker Newt Gingrich's ability to lead a reducml GOP majority. 
Democrats grabbml I1 seats previously lwld by Hnpubli<:ans and the GOP in turn won five J>emoeratic seats in early n~turns, making a rwt gain of six for the Democrats. 
Ilowever, Hepublieans were leading in snvnral rac11s that had not yet been ca!IPd. 
A rwt loss of I I seats would have cost l.lw I!Ppublicans control -and Gingrich the SJWakership. But any Dmnocrati<: gain proved an exn~ption to a wdl-t)stablislwd oiT-yPar elnction tn•ml. 
SirH'P tlw end of World War II. tlw party controlling tlw Whit11 House has lost an avPrage of 27 SPats in midt«1rm el11ctions. 
ThrPf' I!Ppublican and orw Democratic frPshmPn W!)re among tlw very exclusive group of llmtse inrumlwnts who failed to gPI n•-electf'CI Ttwsday. 
Traditionally, morn than 90 percent of inrumh11nts succeed in defending tlwir seats. and this year. with the economy strong and vot11rs content, the re-election trPrHI was even stronger than usual. 
It appeared certain that the number of incumbents losing would be well under 1994, when 34 Democrats but no Hepublieans were replaced, and 1996, when three Demoerats and' 18 GOP incumbents were defeated. 
Among the losers were first-termer Vince Snowbarger, R-Kan., whose district in a Kansas City suburb went to a Democrat, former district attorney Dennis Moore, for the first time in 49 years. 
In New .Jersey, Hush llolt, a Princeton University physicist, defeated GOP fresh­man Mike Pappas, partly on the strength of radio ads criticizing Pappas for singing a song on the House floor in praise of Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr. 
Rep. Bill Redmond of New Mexico won a traditionally Democratic seat in a run­off vote in 1997 when a Green Party can­clidate siphoned off Democratic votes. This time, the Democratic candidate pre­vailed -state Attorney General Tom Udall. 
"It was a minor miracle last,year when Bill Redmond won it," state GOP chair­man .John Dendahl said. "It would have been a real miracle for Bill to hold it." 
Two years ago, Hep . .Jon Fox, H-Pa., beat .Joseph lloef'l'el by 84 votes. This time Fox, a two-term representative, lost to IIOf~ffel by about 3,000 votes in their district north of Philadelphia. 
The Democrats lost freshman Hep. .Jay .Johnson of Wisconsin, who fell to state Hop. Mark Green in their Green Bay dis­trict. 
With other races still undecided, it appeared likely that the number of losing incumbents would rise above 1988 and 1990, two eleelions in which a mere six sitting members of the House lost in gen­eral elections . 

Arnold: House results hold few surprises 
By ERICA THESING News Writer 
The results of the House election seemed to follow predicted patterns, said Peri Arnold, professorof government. Even without all of the House elections tallied, Arnold remained eonfident that the Republicans would maintain their lead as expected without a run· 
away victory. 

'IT'S A TENDENCY 
OF VOTERS TO PREFER THINGS AS THEY ARE, AND TO PREFER A DIVIDED GOVERNMENT.' 
PERI ARNOLD GOVEifNMENT PROFESSOR 
not have a sweeping victory, he explained. 
"It's a tendency of vot(lrs to prefer things as they are, and to prefer a divided government," he said, referring to tlw fact that the President belongs to a different party than the majority party in Congress. 
Arnold mentioned two Democratic gubernatorial victo­ries which exemplify the earlier predictions. The Demoeratic vic­tories in the traditionally Republican states of Alabama and South Carolina point to the fact that Hepublicans, while most likely maintaining their lead, will 
"That suggests there are no landslides out there,'' Arnold said. Contrary to what some experts suggested, the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal played no role in the decisions voters made, said Arnold . "There's no reason to think that," he said. "I don't think there is a simple issue. I don't think there are any national issues driving this [eleetion].'' Arnold explained that the "relative prosperity" that many voters currently fool made a bigger impaet on their deeisions that the Washington scandals. The success of the incumbents also followed predicted patterns in the House elections. "In the extreme, this is an incumbent's election," Arnold said. 

• HOOSIER CAMPAIGN 
Roemer polkas to a fifth House term 

The Observer/Brat Hogan 
'you fight the hard 
battle, you stay the course, you run the clean campaign. We stayed on the high road. We're very proud of that positive mes­sage and of our posi­tive accomplishment.' 
Tim Roemer Indiana's Third District House Representative 

By TIM LOGAN 
Assisranr News Editor 
The mood was festive last night at St. Joseph County Democratic campaign head­quarters as Tim Roemer claimed victory in his bid for a firth term in the U.S. House of Hepresentatives. 
Democratic candidates, party activists and volunteers mingled and danced to the polka music of the Jimmy Deka Trio while eagerly awaiting the results of elections up and down the tick­et. One highlight of the night came when Hoerner addressed tlw assembled crowd. 
"Thank you," he said to his supporters. "Thank you not only for the last three months, and for the last three days, but for the last eight years.'' 
The eongressman, who was declared the winner with 58 percent of the vote -with 68 pereent of precincts reporting, pledged to work in his next term to save Social Security, fight for HMO and campaign finance reform and strive to balance the budget in a biparti­san manner. He also reiterated the importance of running a clean campaign. 
"You fight the hard battle, you stay the course, you run the clean campaign," he said. "We stayed on the high road. We're very proud of that positive mes­sage, and of our positive accom­plishment." 
After Roemer's speech, the event kicked into full swing, with champagne bottles being passed around and Roemer and other candidates greeting their supporters around the room. 
"The party's going pretty good so far," said Dave Thomas, treasurer of the West 
Side Democratic Club, where the event was held. "We have some vietories to e!llnbratn.'' 
The Club regularly holds local Dmnoeratie Party events. but is renowned for its Dyngus Day eelnbration each April. The day is a Polish holiday traditionally eelebrated on Easter Monday, and the West Side Democratic Club is a center of South Bond's celebration. 
Democrats celebrated a num­ber of victories last night at the Club, and reminiseed about thn past eampaign. 
"We went door to door and worked at the grassroots level," Hoemer said. "So far, [thn results[ feel pretty good.'' 
But the evening struck a somber note earlier on when St. .Joseph County prosecutor Michael Barnes forecast his own defeat in his bid for rnnlec­tion. 
"If the present trends eontin­ue, we'll have a new proseeut­ing attorney," he said. "But we have much to be proud of. The people of St. .Joe County have given me and my family a great, great run." 
Not long after Barnes' speech, Hepublican challenger Chris Toth was declared the projeetnd winner. Barnes had been eoun­ty prosecutor since 1978. 
Hoemer, a 42-year-old South Bend native, received a Ph.D. in international affairs from Notre Dame in 1985, and a master's degree in the same field in 1981. 
lie occasionally returns to campus to address classes and give lectures. 
In the House, he represents Indiana's Third Distriet, whieh includes South Bend and the rest of St. .Joseph, LaPorte and Elkhart counties. 

page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 4, 1998 
social stability and within the the economics of tourism, which subtext of Westernization. promotes export earnings. 

Prof: Citizens' ideals Culture 

"Societies would only succeed "Cultural goods have positive so far in that they would dis­externalities they can provide,"
continued from page 1 
place their culture with western said Glade. The Bank has also
keep Castro in power 

These two areas both lead to the cultural relations," he said. "The begun to focus on the economic 
behavioral outcomes of produc­World Bank tries to get away justifications inherent in the 
tion and distribution. from that ethnocentricity. They intrinsic value of the culture 
By MARIA ELENA PEREZ 
News Writer 
The current Cuban revolu­tionary government has sur­vived various challenges to its stability in recent decades because citizens resist individ­ualism and work together for agricultural success, according to Stanford University profes­sor emeritus Richard Fagen. 
During the 1960s, the CIA sponsored various attempts to kill Cuban leader Fidel Castro and overthrow the revolution­ary government, according to Fagen. Later the collapse of the Soviet Union was the cause of a severe blow to the economy of Cuba, causing a 50 percent drop in the country's gross domestic product. Yet Castro and his Communist regime sur­vived these times and has experienced 
er?" 
He offered two suggestions based on qualities inherent in Cuba's established socialist movement to answer these questions: a tremendous con­tinuum of socialization and a socially-pressured tendency for mobilization of the Cuban pop­ulation. 
Ideals of socialization are instilled in the minds of Cubans beginning at infancy, according to Fagen, who noted that, in Havana's infant day care cen­ters, children are not put in individual playpens because socialists believe that this encourages individualism. 
"This early push towards liv­ing as a member of the group plays a dominant role in Cuba's anti-individualist soci­ety," said Fagen. 
Most Cuban citizens also con­tribute to the maintainence of the regime by working in agri­cultural areas in the evenings in addition to their daily jobs, explained Fagen, who referred to this system as "mobiliza­tion." 
"The efforts of the Revolution set out to bring to most private sectors of society the benefits of modern society ... this could only be done if the population was highly mobilized," he said. "The idea is to get everyone in the society involved somehow in producing and promoting those new goods." 
Fagen illustrated these efforts by describing a system of teacher training in which trainees are taken to rural areas for three years to teach peasant children before returning to the city as interns. The importance of agricul­tural responsibility is also taught to children at an early age. In addition to regular lessons, they learn how wealth is 

Specialization and division of labor, exchange transactions, and orchestration of resources are all factors in determining the behavioral outcome of a society. 
"Recently the World Bank has begun to incorporate culture into its analysis and its work," said Glade. · 
This began primarily with environmental studies, but quickly manifested itself in 
BOG 

continued from page I 
ous years, but this fall the College will be host to 350 stu­dents and over 1,500 people, Koelsch explained. 
The increase occurred because Saint Mary's has had the chance to buy more names from com­panies such as SAT and ACT. Also, the time of year of the 
participate in the promotion of a more agriculturally-sound Cuba. Up to 90 percent of ordinary working-class people who go to the fields regularly on nights or weekends to do labor such as cutting sugar cane or turning rocks to prepare land for planting. 
Is this tremendous mobiliza­tion voluntary? Yes and no, said Fagen, explaining that among Cubans there is a tremendous social pressure to work in the fields which does not leave them much choice. 
"There is an institutionality there that functions ... a digni­ty, a patriotism," said Fagen of the system. "Cuban national­ism is still there." 
Fagen spoke on Monday, Nov. 2, at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies. He has traveled to Cuba several times since 1968 and is the author of "The Transformation of Political Culture in Cuba." 

SOMEBODY S GONNA GET AWAY WITH 
UNLESS YOU JOIN US TONIGHT 
TO HELP SOLVE THE MYSTERY. 
put an emphasis on reexamining cultural diversity so cultural process could work itself out with no cultural displacement or adoption of Westernization." 
The Bank has identified sever­al areas on which to concentrate in leading society, with an increase in human capacity. 
Glade emphasized the Bank's movement toward economic jus­tifications of investments in cul­ture. A prime example of this is 
event is later, so admission coun­selors have already been to visit schools and inform students about Saint Mary's. 
In other news, the Student Academic Council announced that the upcoming College Bowl will take place in late February. There will be a meeting Nov. 11 at 6:30 p.m. in the LeMans lobby to provide information about the event. 
Next Tuesday, Nov. 10, the nursing department is sponsor­
1 
itself. 
This produces non-income components of welfare which are vital in reaffirming their identity and participation in the native culture. A third area of growth is in cultural production based on the culture itself. 
"Expansion of cultural exports is an increasing part of what they are all about in that they represent areas that are income elastic," said Glade. 
ing a Health Fair from 3-7 p.m. in LeMans lobby. 
The fair will include represen­tatives from the Women's Care Center. 
The Student Activites Board informed BOG about a play enti­tled "The Inside" by Lydia Diamond, which is about that abstract state of acceptance not generally afforded to people of color. 
The play will be performed on Thursday in Little Theatre. 


Cargill 
selected business faculty members and the Cargill Pi;versity Scholarships, which will support minority seniors iri the College's accounting and finance departments. 
"We believe this contribu­tion will help strengthen ties .b¢tWeen Car~ill and Notre Dame, and our association with the O'Hara Lecture Series n Business Ethics is a perfect fit for our company's h~ltefs.' said Robert Lumpkins, Cargill vice chair­man and chief financial offi­cer and a 1966 graduate of Notre Dame. 
'THIS EARLY PUSH
increased sta­produced by bility in the TOWARDS LIVING AS A means of activities
1990s, he said. MEMBER OF THE GROUP 
"How did the such as system with-PLAYS A DOMINANT ROLE IN preparing 
stand [this]?" CUBA'S ANTI-INDIVIDUALIST polyethylene asked Fagen. bags for cof-What exactly is SOCIETY.' fee. 
the glue that It is not holds the only teach­
RICHARD FAGEN ers and chit-
Communist regime togeth­STANFORD UN!VERSJ7Y PROFESSOR dren who 
Tl1e Observer is lool~ing for some­one who is sl~illed at programming and scripting for the Mac to assist in the development of the Observer's website. This is a paid position. 
If interested please contact ]enn at 271-9145, or leave a note in the Web Administrator mailbox at the Observer Offices (basement of South Dining Hall) 


----~------------------------------------~ ~-----------------~~--~--------­
Wednesday, November 4, I 998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 



Going for the gold 
T
hn inaugural Mini LatH Night Olympics, organiwd by tho Servke Committnn of tlw Notre Dame dass of' 2000, brought ovnr 50 children from the South Bnnd Boys and Girls Club to Stepan Clmter lin· a night of' athldie events. 
Thirty to 40 volunteers from the Notre Damn and Saint Mary's dassos of 2000 lwlpPd eoordinatn thn nvnnt, said Erika llornn, en-ehairperson of the Serviee CommiltnP. 
The nine athletic nvenL'i ineludnd activitins likn soeeor (right). The kids wcrn rnwarded with prizns sueh as a football autograplwd hv thn ND football team (above). Other n~nnts included jump roping and dodge ball. 
The kids were also treated to pizza and balloons, Ilorne said. 
"Thr nvent wnnt well. and everyone enjoyod it," llorno said. "The kids were very thankful and greatful for overything." 
All photos by The Observer/Ernesto Lacayo 
The Kellogg Institute 
A current affairs round table discussion among faculty and students 
Election '98: Celebration or Hangover? 
A Discussion on the US Election Results 

Wednesday, November 4, 1998 at 4:15 p.m. C-l03 Hesburgh Center Panelists: Professor Peri Arnold, Department of Government 

Medical use of illicit drugs gets voter okay 
Associated Press 
Voters in Arizona, Nevada and the state of Washington said "Yes" to medical use of marijuana Tuesday, while election officials in the Distriet of' Columbia said "Shhh." 
Officials in the nation's cap­ital decided not to release results of the medical mari­juana vote there, under pres­sure from a disapproving Capitol Hill. 
Alaska and Oregon also con­sid ercd medical marijuana measures. 
Supporters of sueh mea­sures say smoking marijuana can. ease pain , restore appetite, reduce eye pressure in cases of glaucoma, and quell nausea from cancer chemotherapy. 
Nevada voters amended the state constitution to let patients with catastrophic iil­nesses get marijuana pre­scriptions. 
The measure must be approved by voters again in the year 2000 before it can take effect, but even then, the state attorney genoral's office has vowed it will not be implemented until federal law is changed. 
The amendment would allow patients with illnesses such as cancer, AIDS and glaucoma to use marijuana. 
The Washington state mea­sure says patients with cer­tain terminal and debilitating illnesses, or their care-givers, may grow and possess a 60­day supply of marijuana. The exact amount isn't specified. 
Physicians who advise quali­fying patients about the risks and benefits of marijuana usc are protected from prosecu­lion. 
Arizona voters eleared the way -for a second time -to let doetors prescribe marijua­na and some other illicit drugs for seriously ill patients. 
Two years ago, Arizona vot­ers overwhelming approved a measure that made prescrib­ing marijuana and 115 other "Schedule 1" narcotics legal, if two doctors agreed to the preseiption. Schedule 1 drugs arc deemed by tho federal government to be highly addictive and of' no medicinal value. 
On Tuesday, voters rcjeeted a legislative requirement that marijuana be approved by the Food and Drug Administration or Congress before all the drugs would be eligible for prescription. 
District of Columbia officials decided to keep voting results there secret beeauso of a dcdsion on Capitol Hill last month. 
Congress amended a district budget bill to forbid spending money on the referendum because it oppose:; 1!1galiza­tion of marijuana. 
The American Civil Liberties Union said it would file a Freedom of Information Act request to get the vote results released. 
II' the ACLU succeeds in get­ting the vote certified and the initiative wins, Congress can still veto the measure by a majority vote in both houses. 
The Observer is always looking lor 
reporters. II you are interested, come to our News meeting on Sunday at 5 p.m. 

Professor Robert Fishman, Fellow, Kellogg Institute, and Department of Sociology 
Professor Christina Wolbrecht, Department of Government 
Join u.~ to discuss the election results 



...--~-~-------~ ----------·---~-~-­





VIEWPOINT 
pagelO----------------------------------------------------------------------Wednesday, November 4, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR E Heather MacKenzie 8 
~ 
NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER........................ Bryan Lutz " VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelat 
~ 
E 
SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet 
SCENE EDITORS.......................... Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero KriS[i K1irsch WEB ADMINISYRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella 
PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
TI1c Observer is rhe independent newspaper published by the students of the Universicy of Notre Dame duLac and 
Sajnr Mary's College. It does nor necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration of either institution. The news is 
reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majoriry of rhe 
Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edi(Qr and depanmem editors. Commentaries, leners and 
columns prcsem the views of the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all 
members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
rhrough leuers is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 63I-53I3 Managing Editor/Assisram ME 63 I-454 I Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 63I-5323 Systems 63I-8839 Sports 63I-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saim Mary's 63I-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoim 63I-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews. I @nd.edu 
• 
liKE ARROWS IN THE HAND OF AWARRIOR 

J. 
R. R. Tolkien (who ate his God every day in Mass) tells the story of the Creation as beautiful music the angels sang, fol­lowing the theme God declared unto them. It is complex music, and every 



Gabriel Martinez 

angel brought into it a new contribution that increased the beauty and the power of the song, enriching its unity. But one of those beings, Melkor, the evil one, would not stay within God's theme. He would go his own way. He would not be subject to the cannons drawn up by the authority of the Composer. . 
Last Friday the Notre Dame Liturgical Choir gave its once-in-a-squirrel lifetime concert. We sounded so good that we made the angels (looking from the ceiling of our marvelous Basilica) jealous. I have the privilege to sing in that Choir ad majorem Dei gloriam. However, I have to say that on Friday I felt like a dissenting theologian. 
I would imagine that theologians, even if they dissent, have a general will to do the right thing. As a matter of fact, I would concede, giving them the benefit of the doubt, that a good many dissenting theologians really try hard to please God. They spend years of study and dedicate their entire lives to thinking about the sci­ence of God. However. if they dissent, they are being lousy scholars because they do not use all the tools at their dis­posal in their search for truth. They fail, and they fail because they do not want to see the Church for what she is: Mater et Magistra, Mother and Teacher. 
What is so special about this Magistra? Aren't theologians (generally speaking) also teachers? Well, as compared to the Apostolic See, they simply lack the talent. 
Mozart Versus Moi 
It's as plain as that. They "have the push, but do not have the stuff." They don't have what it takes. They (or their prede­cessors) were not promised by the Crucified that they would be the founda­tional rock of the Church, against whom the gates of Hell would not prevail. They were not assured their faith and under­standing would be preserved against error. So when theologians attempt to build beyond the Rock, they necessarily flounder. When they say they believe all the Church teaches but disagree with the Church on hovy she interprets herself, while still pretending they Are Church (assuming they say it with a straight face), they are putting themselves beyond the promise of infallibility granted, not to them, but to the Rock of the Church. 
That is why I say that I felt like a dis­senting theologian. Last Friday I tried really hard to sing the song as it should be sung, as it was written by the compos­er. But it is hard to do when you've only got the "push," but not the "stuff." I must sing what I am supposed to, not some harmony I come up with on the spot. If I sing with the Choir, the music comes out beautifully and the good angels smile a jealous smile. If I sing my own tune, I side with Melkor. 
What is it about Karol Wojtyla that makes him special? Well, the mere fact that on Oct. 16, 1978, Karol Wojtyla stopped being just Karol Wojtyla. He became Peter. Luther, Calvin and our heretic neighbors never did and never will. Wojtyla became Peter. He is the Rock on which the Church is founded. And the gates of Hell may shake and thunder, they may publish full-page ads and circu­late petitions, but they shall not prevail against Her. Such a charism was promised by the Christ, the Son of the Living God. 
What was about Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart that made him special? What was so wrong with Salieri, his rival and enemy at the court of the Austrian Emperor? Salieri knew his music. He worked hard all his life. He composed beautifully. And here comes this kid Mozart, who can barely grow a beard. He put Salieri to shame. Mozart had something that Salieri, with all his ingenuity and his work and his networking, did not have. He had the talent. If I were so bold as to equivo­cate, I would call it a charism. 
Your friendly professor may publish. She may give international conferences. He may lecture like no one ever has. But if they step off the Rock, or if they rede­fine the meaning of air so that it now means the same as rock, they will have (inadvertently. I hope) joined ranks with Melkor. And, having stepped off the Rock, they will falL Oh, yes, into the Abyss, and they will bring down many with them, for many will attune their music to his. 
Now, if you compared Salieri with yours truly, you would just laugh. At me. There is no chance I can do what your run-of­the-mill musician does. Imagine if we all thought we could do as much as a man with a modicum of talent and a great deal of study does. Imagine for a minute that every Sunday we thought that every one of us has the God-given right to re-inter­pret the hymnal according to our own experiences and opinions. Wouldn't that be something! 
Imagine ifevery Christian felt he had the God-given right to interpret Bible and Church document, without any subjection to a higher authority here on earth. It would be like free interpretation of the hymnal. Imagine if every woman read the book of Ruth, if every man read the book of Tobit, if every lover read the Song of Salomon, if every soldier read Revelation, if every doctor read the Gospel of Luke, if every architect read Genesis ON THEIH OWN. Imagine what would happen if they only held opinions that sound reasonable to them. Imagine if they never said any­thing like: "If the Church and I disagree, chances are I am wrong." If we were like that, we would have no faith. We would have a nice system of opinions, which we hold because they make sense, not because God told us they are facts. If every one of us had a slightly different set of such opinions, we would not be singing the same song. A polyphonic is a beauti­ful, diverse sound. Cacophony is noise made by divergent individualists, and that is music to Melkor's cars. 

My point? Docility. Horrible word, I know, in this day and age when we feel we have conquered the moon and the microwave and the microchip. and we don't need anybody telling us what to do. We (the lay and the ordained, theologians and normal people) are big boys now. and we'll never let Babel go. 
It's time to remember we are ignorant little children, who are asked to take Abba's hand before we cross the street, who are asked to take Daddy at his word. So if your neighbor knows more theology than you do, chances are she is right more often than you are. But if a white­robed Polish philosopher, who happens to wear the Shoes of the Fisherman, contra­dicts your neighbor, chances are the Fisherman is right in every disagreement. 
If your neighbor in Choir is singing a C. and he has been in Choir for four years, is a music major, and learned to read music before he learned to read words, chances are you should be singing a C. But if the written music you hold in your hand. written by the composer and passed on by the absolutist authority of the publish­er (and reinforced by an intransigent and heretic-burning Choir director) indicates you should be singing a D. sing the most beautiful Din your ability, ad majorcm Dei gloriam. 
For "Jesus said in reply, 'Blessed arc you, Simon son of Jonah. For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my heavenly Father. And so I say to you, you are Kefas, and on this Kefas I will build my Chun:h, and the Gates of Hell shall not prevail against her."' 
Gabriel Martinez is a Graduate Student ofEconomics. lie writes requesting, in fact begging that you keep this article away from Dr. Gail Walton. Director. The stake is an uncomfortable place. His col­umn appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• 000NESBURY 
5Q ANYNAY, #,JAN H13R& HAS IMJRK&IJ OUT A PIAN 7lJ K££P OUR /YVN&Y 54fi!;ANI? 5()(JNI?UNTIL. /A/& AC7l/AUYN&el? fT.I 
GARRY TRUDEAU 

• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'My fellow citizens of
~r;;;;;;A MINIJle/ \._~ 
the world: ask not
Y()(J Rc I£777NG 
lH/!3 I?AMC £001< 
what America will do for
ArTEiR AU 7H& I /JCX/t3H? 7H()(JGHT 
you, but what together we 
I ~Y&9. 
can do for the freedom of 
\ 
man.' -John F. Kennedy Qnaugaral Address, 
January 1961) 

VIEWPOINT 
Wcdnc~day, November 4, 1998 -----------------osstRVER -----------------------------------~--------page II 


• LETIERS TO THE EDITOR 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Art Embarrassment 
Food Fights an 
Cannot be 
Actions Disrespectful to Band 


Taken at 
1consid1~1· myself an ordinary Notre Damn student, apathetic to our fellow students that we willingly insult with as much school spirit as any other student here. I and discourage them at every game in the Notre Dame love tlw school. I lov1~ the football team, and I love the stadium'? We overlook the fact that we have the privilege hand. Some of my favorite moments at this university and the honor of having them play to us. !low insulted 

Surface 
are wlwn 1!war the hand playing tlw traditional Notre and disappointed would we feel as the students if we Dame songs. It doesn't matter if the members are prac-didn't have the band playing for us? With our behavior tic:ing, playing at thn pnp rally, performing during a at the games we are well on our way to exhausting this ganw or marching by my window at R a.m. on a football honor. Wn already had a taste of this loss at the last 

Value

Saturday-simply !waring tlwm play can give me game. No one even realized that when the travel-goose bumps. I don't doubt that the major--------ing band tried to play in front of the stu­ity of tlw student body fonls thn same dent body on Saturday, students threw way. which puzzles nw wlwn I sn<l marshmallows directly at them. our behavior during every These students work hard to I would like to resp01'1d to Hoberthoml' game. play for US, and how do we 
Pazornik's "Hiddle Me That" column 
1havp 1wvnr hn1~n so dis-thank them? We throw from Tuesday, Nov. 3. 
appointed or emhar-marshmallows at our own Now, I realize that the column is Mr. 
rassPd by the student band? I don·• blame 
Pazornik's attempt at humor. and I 
body as 1 was at thn them for leaving with-
would not normally waste my time ganll' this past \ut playing to us. We 
responding to it; but I think his humor Saturday. I don't have shown that not reflects an attitude toward art that is 
know how many only are we com-based on ignoranct}, an attitude that peop!ll actually plctely disrespect-
necessitates a response.

noticl'd, but as ful of our fellow 
I was not surprised to see the words tIIll hand ran students, but "Freshman Year'' beside Mr. Pazornik's 
onto tlw linld that our stu­name in the directory-his half-baked at hall'tim<'. dent body is 
attempt at art commentary (using words 
most of th<• lacking in 
like "crappy" and "junk") reflects his studPnts had basic man-academic immaturity. 1 wonder if tho their hacks ners. 
young Pazornik, so far along in his col­tunwd to the From my lege career, hns even bothered to takP aliPid. Tlwy seat in the class in art interpretation, to actuallywPr<' morP stadium, it is 
make an effort to understand what he is 
<'OIII'<•rnml obvious that 
looking at -somehow I doubt it.

with 1:atrh-not everyone 
His stumbling commentary reflects an
ing a glimpse participates in underlying idoa of art known as "popu­of tlw octo-this half-time lar criticism," which was defined by the pus or won-chaos. For art historian and critic J .J. Pollitt as.
dPring wlwn• those that do 
"characterized by idnas about art which to throw the partieipate, I are more characteristic of the layman1111xt marshmal-am embarrassed than of either the practicing artist or !.he
low than with by the image that 
experienced connoisseur." Pollitt con­watching thP they give the rest tinues. "The most abiding ideas of thishand. Tho marsh-of the students. 
popular criticism are an unquestioningmallow fight used This tradition has acceptance of naturalism as the goal of' to hP an unofl'ieial become a poor art-i.e., the purpose of art is to imi­sPnior tradition. hut rcllection of the stu­tate the external world and the bestit has sinc11 moved to dent body as it is wit-work of art Is that whieh imitates it most an out of control brawl. ncsscd by thousands of convincingly."
Th<' tragi~: part about tlw Notre Dame fans at every What is amusing here is that Pollittlight this W<lek is that mom-game. The majority of us was describing the ideas about art t:om·h<'rs ol' tho band had politely wouldn't purposely choose to 
mon in ancient times; 1thought we had
l'<'!jU<'St!'d that the studnnt body present a poor imago of our school 
progressed as a society in our under-
not participatn in such aetions. This in public, so why do we choose to ere­, standing of art since the classical times,messagP was sent to the dorms and even ate that same image in our own stadium? 
but obviously some ol' us still hawm't.
announ<:<Hl h<~forn tlw game. hut tho battles still Everyone loves to emphasize the unity among 
Maybe Mr. Pazornik's idea of art is the 
look place. It was disappointing to son the students bla-Notre Dame fans. Realize that this unity is not just with one we should all have, maybe wetautly disrogard this n~quost. and participate in even the poople in the crowd, but also with the fans marching 
should fill this eampus with sculptures
wors<' fights than usual. i\s tlw band ended their show on the field at halftime. There is only onn more home 
that are carbon-copies of what Wt} sM.
and tlu~ marshmallow tossing di<ld down on Saturday, we game this season, and the band has one more time to but I for one don't think so. I like thestill had nirw minutos during halftime to do abs<rlutely play for us. Usc the LSU game as a chance to show the 
fact that art is not instantly understand­
nothing. I low diflicult would it bo to take those few extra students in the band the respect that they deserve, and able. Would we watch a movie or read aminut!'s to watch the band pnrfonn before we break out prove to everyone that this unity docs exist among the novel if there was no conclusion to waitinto tho marshmallow tossing'? Tlw band works hard student body. 
for, to move towards? Of course not.
PVI'ry day, and tlwy do it l'or us. 
Like movies and novels, art is a formTlwy practice and learn tlwir routines for the fans, and Brooke Davis of communication, a communieation of
PV<'n mor<~ spocifically, tho student body. When they run Sophomore, Breen-Phillips Hall 
ideas, and as such, it utilizes a languageonto tlw lield. tlwy face us and they play to us. What do November 2, 1998 
-one that can be read, but must first.
tlw hand mnmbnrs snn in rnturn'? They sen the backs of 
be learned. The purpose of non·r~~pre­
th<' studnnts as Wll eomplotnly ignorn th<lm. Are we so sentational art. like the sculpture Mr. Pazorn.ik lambastes. Is to commtmleate It message in a way that is not always immediately understandable, through
Loaves and Fishes 
the use of an artistic language. To 1t1e, this is infinitely more positive and cre­ative than just presenting some pre­
Tlw multiplication ol' loaves and fishes it wasn't. It was food as in cafeterias or stadiums, but the disputes that 
digested subject matter, which is pre·a disgusting waste of food. It was rude to the band. It arise when there is limited food available. 
cisely what young Pazornik does in hiswas a fine display of the wealth of this country, which Its easy to be wasteful here. Its easy to forget how commentary on the oft-discussed "banehremls the attitude that its okay to waste because we most of the world lives, but according to our mission 
of N.D. students' lives," campus sculp­
havn so much. statement we are to have "a disciplined sensibility to the 
ture.

F<liHiing the hungry is eallml a work of mercy. What poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of would wo eall throwing assorted seafood, frogs, bread, so many. The aim is to create a sense of human solidari­
Ross C. Barrett Ill
marshmallows and tortillas at one another'? ty and concern for the common good." 
Senior, Arr History Major
Imagine the average p<lrson of the world at the game. i\nd wo have a reminder of this on the wall in every Knott Hall 
This fHlrson would not hn mueh like you or I, for we live classroom, which we arc called to imitate by our bap­in a country with over hall' tlw world's wealth (although tism. wn make up less than a tenth of its population). 
Imagine the reaction ol' this person as students gleeful­Sheila McCarthy ly hurlnd weeks worth of food at one another. Sophomore, Pasquerilla West Food fights in other countries are not the throwing of November 2, I 998 

THE 



T
he boys from Athens, GA are back once again with their first album since the commercial bust of New Adventures in l-li Fi, which only went platinum with 1 million albums sold. With a multi-million dollar contract from Warner Brothers, R.E.M. hopes to cash in with another multi-platinum record with sales similar to Out of Time, Automatic for the People and Monster. each with sales over 4 mil­lion albums. 
However, this task proves even more daunting with the departure of' drummer Bill Berry. Despite this obstacle and a dwindling fan base, 
R.E.M. chose not to play it safe on their new album UP. 
Do not be misled by the title of the new release. This project by remaining members Michael Stipe. Mike Mills and Peter Buck,-is anything but an uplifting hour of perky tunes. Instead, UP is a musically dark album filled with the introspec­
• tive lyrics of Stipe . In place of Berry, some songs resorted to the use of a synthesizer and bell chimes for percus­sion. The guitar effects of Mills. similar to those on Monster and New Adventures in Hi Fi, add another layer to the sound that creates a haunt­ing feel to the music. Further use of string arrangements on "Lotus," "Suspicion" and "In the Air," in addition to pianos and organs fill the remaining gaps left by the departed Berry. 
The album's opening song is unlike any other 
R.E.M. 
song. "Airportman" boldly opens UP. 

R.E.M. 
wanted to experiment with a new sound and felt the best way to do so was to hit the audi­ence with a horrific guitar distortion and synthe­sized beat while Stipe mumbled words. 


However, the lyrics "great opportunity blinks," reveal the intent; the group felt they had to try and seize the moment with a new sound. Unfortunately, it fails. 
The next track, "Lotus," is a fun allusion to the creative process of music with beat that is up­tempo for this album. Tracks three and four, "Suspicion" and "Hope," reveal Stipe's desire for R.E.M.'s audience to accept the new sound. 
Track five again departs from the rest of thn album as does track ten. "At My Most Beautiful" is a love song at its base with a beautiful piano melody. 
Stipe has said that it is a tribute to Brian Wilson, and a song for which he found difficult to write lyrics. It is a nice change of pace in a solemn string of dark songs. The aforemention!~d track ten, "Daysleeper" was the first single ofT the album and is the most "H.E.M-like song." 
It invokes memories of "Nightswimming" ofT Automatic for the People with its serene melodic feel. It is the best received song off the album by its listeners thus far. The rest of the songs on the album are filled with lyrics that suggest Stipe and his buddies are unsure on how their new work will be received. 
UP does is not a return to old school R.E.M as fans may have hoped. However, it is unlike the most recent album New Adventures in Hi Fi. The guitar licks are mellower and more controlled. While H.E.M. continues to experiment, they are also maturing. 
With the departure of Bill Berry, R.E.M. is in the· process of learning how to mesh as a three­piece band. Though their decision to not tour this album will not help record sales, it should not hurt sales either. They also chose not to tour Out ofTime and Automaticfor the People. 
UP is a reflective album that challenges the lis­teners to understand where the band is coming from. Though this album will not blow anyone away, it is a good start for the new R.E.M. or Stipe, Mills and Buck. 
Dan Laughlin 

David Alvin 
Blackjac,k David 
Atlantic Records 
****(out of five) 
O 
n Blackjack David, David Alvin helps maintain a musical tradition that is older than America itself: folk music. Alvin is the latest in a long line 
of people to uphold a genre of music that was created centuries ago in 
England. Ireland and Scotland. 
It was molded by American settlers into bluegrass and old-time country and found its way into tho blues. It was revived and transformed by folk-rockers like Bob Dylan and Neil Young and more recently by the root-rocking acts Son Volt, Wilco and Alvin's former band the Blasters. 
Alvin's music on this album. which incorporates all of these forms, is the type of music that makes you think "Oh yeah. I forgot. This is what music is really all about." The music on this album is real; it has no pretense, nor any real motive except maybe tho desire to pass on a story in the form of a tune. 
Alvin pays a direct tribute to this tradition of folk music with the first and title track from his new album, a traditional piece that is literally hundreds of years old. It is an eerie story of a man who persuades his lover to desert her family and run off with him. and Alvin's treatment of the song is keen. 
The song gains power as subsequent instruments are added, compelling the lis­tener to become truly involved in the story. The rest of the songs on the album are Alvin's compositions (although he had a bit of help on a few of the tracks), ·and to these he adds elements of country, blues and rock to his folksy style. 
Though none of these songs quite match the magical quality of the opener, the album as a whole is nonetheless solid. Alvin's most noticeable talents are his ability to tell a story and his rough bass voice, reminiscent of Johnny Cash. Though his voice is not extremely musical, it makes the songs especially intimate in the same way Bob Dylan's, Lou Reed's or Jerry Garcia's vocals do. 
Photo courtesy of Atlantic Records 

Alvin tends not to write about the warm fuzzies. Rather, his stories are about the darker side of the human condition: unrequited love, inner turmoil and despair. "California Snow," for example, is the tale of Mexican immigrants who are forced to travel north, where they do not find wealth and happiness in the sunshine state. but freezing snow and a lack of shelter. "From a Kitchen Table" is thn mgretful story of a letter never sent; in "1968," Alvin delivers tho poignant story of' one man's efforts, 30 years later, to deal with the loss of his best friend during the Vintnam War. 
Tho music on BladJack David almost matches up with the quality of its stories. Don't buy the album if you are attention deficient, because thn sounds in general are relaxing and meditative, melancholy storins delivered with mostly acoustic accompaniment. But Alvin does lighten the music up on a few occasions, like "Abilene," an upbeat country-rocker, and "New Highway," a jugband blues number about the stereotypical rambltn' man. "The Way You Say Good-bye" is a character­istic modern country song that would fit right in on any of the 16 country stations here in South Bend. 
David Alvin's music on Blackjack David exemplifies the purity. simplicity. and elo­quence of American roots music, the same music that is currently being exploited by other more popular bands. Alvin's stories are touching, and his music, whether it is bouncy or scarce, is always rich and compelling. I look forward to hearing mom from Alvin and his kind in the future. 
James Kelly 

~-------------~­

O THE 
Wednesday, November 4, 1998 -------------------page 13
BSERVER 


Photo courtesy of Elektra Records 
D 
on't you hate it whnn you arn explaining a really funny story to someone and thny don't laugh at all? You don't undnrstand it; at the time it hap­pmwd you worn rolling on the ground. crying with laughter. But this per­son doesn't find any humor in it at all. Fur years, the band Phish has had this problmn with its live aiul studio performances. 
While l'hish was dazzling sold-out erowds with their stunning stage feats, they wnnm't. getting any praise for their albums. After years of trying to sell albums on tlwir livn nwrit. Ph ish has finally decided to forget about the stories of their live act. Thny have made up an entirely nnw story-The Story ofthe Ghost. 
Orw distinguishing feature about this album is the haunting presence felt in many of the traeks. Tlw dise begins with the sounds of howling winds that remind me of tlw tinw I wont to a hauntnd house in third gradt) and saw my friend walk out of the house wnaring a pair of wnt trousers. Al'tnr the winds are finished. the band launch­I'S into tho lt~ad track "Ghost." Other songs such as "Shafty" and "Frankie Says" are very appropriatn for any llallownnn atmosphere. "Meat." along with "Ghost," men­tions the prnsencP of ghosts, sticking true to the album's theme. 
Tlw music on this album is some of Phish's finest yet. Concentrating on the song ratlwr than the jam. tho band goes from a sweeping epic about a dangerous pig in "(;uyute" to a blw~grass style in "Water in the Sky." 
Tlw most influential style on this album. however, is funk more appropriately, l'hish l'hunk. Tunes like "Ghost." "Meat" and "Hoggae" are highlighted by pumping lmss and wah-wah guitar. The individual band members are all experts at their particular instrument. While Trey Anastasio and Page McConnell trade guitar and piano lil'ks, .Jon Fishman and Mikn Gordon provide the best rhythm section in rock. c;ordon's bass playing might be tlw best musical part of this album, and as this disc shows lw has truly bnconw tlw anchor of the band. 

n terms of' songs rnlnasPd in album l'ormat. most pnople list What's The Story Mominy (;(ory? (I <J<J!il as tlwir top Oasis album. But Oasis' albums are just 10 or 12 songs put down at a given time in thn midst of any one of thnir multipln mood swings. To gPt tlw l'ull pit:t.un~ you noml thn b-sidos which accompany Pvnry singiP rdt~asnd, whirh is on avnrago thrnn per album. Thus. in this year of slramPIPssly-marlwtnd singles compilations, it's rnl'roshing that over half of these orr<lsionally PlusivP Oasis tracks have bonn put on a b-side only release. The 
Mast l'lplan. 
Thl' songs that I'IHind up making '/'he Masterplan were actually chosen through a l'an poll on tho hand's website. l~vnrybocly will have their own p!~rsonal gripes of omission ("StPp Out" and "Cloudburst" for examplnl. but overall, there are not too many surprisPs. Things start out with "1\cquiesco," a roar of a song that was used to optHI up tlw l1) 1)!i t;lastonhury Festival and nvory subsequnnt Oasis gig thereafter through l1) 1Jh. Oasis chosn this song as tlwir sncond number for their 1IJ<J7 "Saturday Night l.ivn" dPillll. The fact that they would chance their first crack at such an 1\nu~rican publicity milestono by playing a song that almost nobody had 1w1~r lward bdorn shows what this band is all about.: nerve, irreverence and ability. 
As wn go through tlw track listing, mnmorable moments of the last few years 
Phish 

The Story of the Ghost 
Elektra Records 
**** (out of five) 

Unlike past Phish albums, The Story of the Ghost is primarily based upon mnan­ingful lyrics. Gone are the goofball phrases used in vario,us Phish songs over the years. Phish's lyricist Tom Marshall chooses to write about subjects dealing with self-reflection. 
The moving "Brian and Robert" talks about loneliness and bitterness with lines such as "If children playing all around/to you is noise not pleasant sound/and you'd be lost on the playground/then this one is for you." The beautiful "Wading in the Velvet Sea" talks about self-sacrifice and the very small amount of time we have left as humans. 
Of course the album does have some rather weak moments. The annoying "Fikus" ean wear on anyone's nerves. Although the song features some cool bass lines, the ,._ vocals bring the song down in a big way. Another weak link called "Shafty" has some fine lyrics, but the music is just too repetitive. 
Many bands never figure out that the stage and the studio are two very different animals. It took Phish over a decade to figure out the discrepancy, but it was we'll worth the wait. Live performances are great to listen to, but sometimes a studio album can show what direction a band is headed toward. Phish is definitely travel­ing in the right direction. Don't be frightened by the urge to gather around thn campfire and listen to The Story ofthe Ghost. 
GeoffRahie 
Oasis -..... 
The Masterplan 
Epic Records 
*****(out of five) 

-
rnturn. Who can forgot the first time they hoard tlw grinding, sojourning sound of "It's Good To Be Free" or the relentless blitzkrieg of "Underneath tlw Sky"? The Masterplan also offers soulful nocturnal wonders in the forms of "Talk Tonight" and ­"llalf tho World Away," not to mention the title track itself. But clearly, tlw highlight of this rnlease is the Oasis cover of The Beatlns' psychedelic trip down tlw path of' lyrical buffoonery: "I Am The Walrus." Noel Gallaglwr's guitar radiates a wall of' unyielding sound in what has become thn standard Oasis show-closnr. 
Whether or not they will continue to sign off with this track whnn tlw band resumes touring in 1999 is anyone's guess. But, onn thing is for surn; if you hawn'l followed Oasis that closely over the last few years hut you like the sound of tlwir albums, you need The Masterplan. If you already have most of tlwsn songs and don't feel like shelling out tlw cash to buy them anew, tlwn just go re-rnnt. "!\liard Day's Night" at your local video shop. It'll do ya' good. 
Sean King 
,~~~~~ 
• NHl
-
Pens rally with three to tie Flyers 4-4 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 4, 1998 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH 
Maxim Galanov scored his first two NHL goals. including the game-tying score with 5:24 left, as the Pittsburgh Penguins rallied from a three-goal deficit to tie the Philadelphia Flyers 4-4 Tuesday night. 
The Flyers' three-game losing streak ended. but Philadelphia is 1-4-2 since starting the season 4-0-1. 
The Penguins lost goaltender Peter Skudra with 1:29 left in the third after a collision in the crease with the Flyers' John LeClair. Pittsburgh is already with­out No. 1 goalie Tom Barrasso, who missed his seventh consecutive game on Tuesday because of a groin injury. Rookie Jean-Sebastian Aubin finished the game. 
Galanov beat John Vanbiesbrouck from the same spot on both goals, firing shots from the top of the left circle. 
The Flyers jumped out to a 3-0 lead with a 13-1 advantage in shots in the game's first 12 minutes. 
Philadelphia scored on its first power­play chance at 2:19. Dan McGillis' shot went over the net and bounced off the backboards to Rod Brind'Amour, who scored his fifth. 
Eric Lindros made it 2-0 at 5:36, con­verting LeClair's pass from behind the net. Chris Therien got the third goal on a power play at 11:28. Andy Delmore's rebound caromed to Therien on the left­wing side and he onetimed a shot over Skudra. 
The Penguins scored two goals in seven seconds. one second short of the fran­chise record. Galanov got his first goal on a power play at 15:45 of the first. 
Robert Lang stole the puck in the neu­tral zone after the ensuing faceoff and Jaromir Jagr scored on the rebound of Lang's breakaway. 
... The Flyers restored a two-goal lead at 4-2 at 6:13 of the second. Lindros back­handed a pass to Mike Malenuk, who beat Skudra for his second. Jagr answered with a goal at 14:27 that had to be supported by video replay. German Titov picked off Vanbiesbrouck's clearing attempt at the blue line and fed a pass to Jagr. Replay official Jim Weaver ruled that Pittsburgh's Robert Lang was not in the crease. Galanov. who was taken from the New York Rangers in the waiver draft, had played nine NHL games without 
scoring a goal. 
Calgary 5, Detroit 2 
Tyler Moss won his first NHL game since January and Cory Stillman scored two goals as the Calgary Flames beat Detroit 5-2 Tuesday night. handing the Red Wings their third straight loss. 
Theoren Fleury and Andrew Cassels both had a goal and an assist and Steve Dubinsky scored for the Flames, who were 0-6-2 against the Red Wings since last beating them Oct. 11, 1996. 
Tomas Holmstrom had a goal and an assist and Martin Lapointe added a goal for the Red Wings, who are 2-4-0 since coach Scotty Bowman returned to the bench Oct. 23. 
Moss relieved Ken Wregget, who was bothered by back spasms, four minutes into the second period and stopped 28 shots. The 23-year-old Moss hadn't played since a 4-3 loss at Los Angeles on Jan. 20. 
Calgary was outshot 47-26 but scored three power-play goals and a shorthand­ed goal against Red Wings goaltender Chris Osgood. 
Cassels broke a scoreless tie 13:26 into the second period when he deflected Phil Housley's blue-line blast past Osgood on a power play. The Flames made it 2-0 just 2:02 later when Stillman put his own rebound into the net. 
Detroit got one back on Holmstrom's power-play goal with 2:22 left in the first. The Red Wings were 11 seconds into a 5­on-3 advantage when Holmstrom got free left of Moss and converted Steve Yzerman's pass through the crease. 
Two more power-play goals gave the Flames a 4-1 lead early in the third. Stillman scored his second of the night at 2:28, then an outstanding individual effort from Fleury resulted in another score just 1:37 later. 
Fleury skated alone down the left side, 
went behind the net and spun around in 
front of the net before wristing a shot 
between Osgood's legs. 
Lapointe deflected a shot by Nicklas 
Lidstrom past Moss at 7:25, but 
Dubinsky's shorthanded breakaway goal 
aftor a Detroit turnover made it 5-2 with 
9:45 remaining. 
Wregget stopped all 16 shots he faced in a scoreless first period, including two good chances for Lapointe during the same Detroit power play. Osgood returned the favor during Calgary's lone power play later in the period when he stopped four Flames shots, including a point-blank rebound blast from Fleury. 
New Jersey 3, New York Islanders 1 
Scott Stevens scored the first goal this season by a New Jersey defenseman on a long slap shot late in the second period and the Devils ended the New York Rangers' six-game unbeaten streak 3-1 on Tuesday night. 
The game was somewhat of a 
homecoming as Devils defense­man Scott Niedermayer played his first game of the year after a contract problem and long-time Devil John MacLean returned in a Rangers' uniform. 
· The result wasn't surprising as the Devils extended their 
unbeaten streak against New York to 11 games (7-0-4) by becoming the first team in three games to score against Mike Richter. He had come into the game off shutouts againstBuffalo and Carolina but he was 
beaten by Brendan Morrison, Stevens and Jay Pandolfo. who clinched the game with 2:27 to play. 
Stevens got the game winner with 1:57 left in the second peri­od on a shot from just inside the 
blue line that appeared to fool Richter after being deflected by Ulf Samuelsson. 
Martin Brodeur, who had 24 
saves, made the goal stand up in 
the third period, stopping two 
good big slap shots by MacLean 
and one from the left circle by 
Kevin Stevens. 
Those two had combined on 
the Rangers' goal midway 
through the second period with EASTERN CONFERENCE Atlantic Division 
w  L  T  
Philadelphia  5  4  3  
New Jersey  6  4  0  
N.Y. Islanders  6  5  0  
Pittsburgh  4  3  3  
N.Y. Rangers  3  5  3  
Northeast Division  
W  L  T  
Ottawa  6  3  0  
Buffalo  5  3  2  
Toronto  5  4  
Boston  4  6  2  
.Montreal  3  5  2  
Southeast  Division  
w  L  T  
Carolina  4  4  3  
Tampa Bay  4  6  .I  
Florida  3  4  3  
Washington  3  4  3  

WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Central Division w L T 
Detroit 6 5 0 St. Louis 
4 3 2 4 5
Chicago 3 5
Nashville 
Northwest Division 
w L T Edmonton 
6 4 0 5 5 I
Vancouver Calgary 4 5 2 Colorado 3 6 
Pacific Division 
w L T 
Dallas 6 I 2 Phoenix 5 2 Los Angeles 4 
5 2 Anaheim 3 3 3 6 2
San Jose 

Pts 13 12 12 11 9  GF 31 20 26 28 17  GA 26 20 24 30 26  
Pts 12 12 II 10 8  GF 30 28 30 27 21  GA 22 21 31 23 29  
Pts 11 9 9 9  GF 23 26 22 16  GA 19 34 30 22  
Pts 12 10 9 7  GF 33 23 23 13  GA 25 21 32 28  
Pts l2 11 10 7  GF 38 32 30 26  GA 25 27 33 36  
Pts 14 II ro 9 4  GF 25 24 21 21 20  GA 16 l4 24 19 27  

MacLean, who spent his first 15 1.........--------------------' 
seasons with the Devils before being traded last year, doing most of the work. 
MacLean took a drop pass from Esa Tikkanen in the left corner, cireled until he was 30 feet in front of Brodeur and fired a low shot. Stevens put in the rebound. 
Richter came into the game not having allowed a goal in 140 minutes, 57 sec­onds. The streak lasted another 14:53 before Morrison ended it by putting his own rebound past the goaltender with the Devils on a power play. 

Dave Andreychuk got his 600th career assist on the play, the 50th player to reach the milestone. 
New Jersey has won five of its last six games. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW!  WANTED:  HOUSES FOR RENT  1 BLK. So. of N.D.  Always buying and selling N D  
NOTICES  Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs.  OFFICIALS FOR INTERHALL BASKETBALL. IF INTERESTED  DOMUS PROPERTIES  ALL BRICK RANCH 728 PEASHWAY  football tickets. 289-8048  
Free Parties.America's best prices  CONTACT  614 S. ST JOE; 9 BED/4 BATH  3 BED ROOMS-2 FULL BATHS  Parents coming to town and I need  
THE COPY SHOP  & packages. Campus sales reps  DeMOND THOMAS AT  518 S. ST JOE; 8 BED/2 BATH  2 FIREPLACES-2 CAR GARAGE  2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4·4896.  
LaFortune Student Center  wanted Earn free trips + cash  631-3536 OR REG SPORTS.  532, 534 S. CARROLL; 7 BED  FINISHED BASEMENT  
We're Open A Lot!!!  1.800.SURFS.UP  1016 S. BEND AVE; 7 BED  PHONE 272-2252  NEED 4 LSU GA TIX.  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight  www.studentexpress.com  FOR RENT ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  820 S. BEND AVE; 5 BED 630 ST. PETER; 5 BED 606 ST. PETER; 5 BED 610 ST. PETER; 5 BED  .__T_I_c_KE_T_s_~~~cALL;;~~ONAL  
When you need copies.  Driver Needed  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  1718 E. WASHINGTON;2 BED  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  ·  
we're open!  From ND to anywhere in  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  602 ND AVE; 5 BED  GAMES.272·6306  Retired nurse will babysit.  
Oregon/Washington after finals.  1082 WOODWARD; 2 BED  $3/hr. Own car, refs.  
Early Spring Break  Snow tires and 4-wheel drive. $200  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  ADDITION-AL HOMES AVAILABLE;  289-0332.  
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruisel6  plus gas Insurance required  Breakfast Inn has space available  ADDRESSES GIVEN UPON  TICKETMART Inc  
- Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome  Shawn at 271-8250  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­ REQUEST  BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets  "Don't Get Burned on Spring Break"  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  THESE HOMES ARE AVAILABLE  258-1111  Spring Break Packages are going  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  campus.  FOR THE 1999-2000 SCHOOL  No student tickets please  fast. Check out our Ho.t Jamaica  
Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties  Toll Road, Exit #107  YEAR  Packages for the Class of '99!Stop  
$339!Panama City Room With  *ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST  1-800-418·9487  in at Anthony Travel in the  
Kitchen. 7 Free Parties  SPRING BREAK PRICES TO  CALL KRAMER @ 674-2571; 233­ FOR SALE  LaFortune Student Center and  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  SOUTH PADRE (FREE  4509;0R CELL 276-7020  FOOTBALL TICKETS  check out the best Spring Break  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­ THE PRIMROSE PATH  271-9412  vacations around.Get your deposit  
1-800-678-6386  WEST,PANAMA CITY. REPS  BED AND BREAKFAST·LOCATED  in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  
- ILOST & FOUND I  NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE,EARN CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR 6+.  15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAMPUS HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HISTORIC  4,5,or 6 in your group? I have the houses for you-call Greg 233-994 7  WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526  chance with an unknown agency or some 1-800 number.Limited space available,so book now!  
WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  INN,FULL ELEGANT BREAK­ WALK TO CAMPUS  Anthony Travel,lnc.  
LOST:  800-838-8203.  FASTS.4 GUEST  2-5 BEDROOM  ND Ftbl. tix  LaFortune Student Center  
Pair of black leather gloves  ROOMS,AIC,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS  232-2595  BUY-SELL  631-7080  
before break. Please help me  REQUIRED.$99.00 Call616-695­ 674-7645  
find them my hands are freezing. If found please call  SPRINGBREAK Florida,Texas,Cancun,Mexico,Jama  6321  FOR SALE  ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  Gavin deBecker and  
Danny at 287-2557. Thanx  ica,etc.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­ Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  ''THE GIFT OF FEAR"  
Browse www.icpt.com and call 800­ rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  674-7645  
LOST: GOLD RING BETWEEN  327-6013.Best hotels,pprices and  198 MIN. $20  THREE TALL WOMEN  
SIEGFRIED AND BOND HALL  parties.Reps,organizations, and  1 ,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  CALL 258-4805  ND Football Tickets Needed.  By Edward Albee  
BEFORE BREAK. MICHAEL @ 4­ promoters wanted. Inter-Campus  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­ AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  Directed By Elaine Bonifield  
4862  Programs  TIES.272·6551  FOR SALE. LIVE PH ISH CDS!  ADMISSION IS FREE  
Bed box set. not available in  ND FOOTBALL TIX  Fri. & Sat. at 7:30p.m.  
WANTED  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­Workers earn up tp $2000+/month  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272­ U.S. call pete at 251·0178.  FOR SALE AM 232-2378  in the Lab Theatre -Washington Hall  
(wl!ips & benefits). World  6306  Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with  PM 288-2726  
Holiday Banquet servers needed  Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000·  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Hey, Blame-it-on-the-Book Nick  
please apply in person.  $7000/summer.Ask us how!517­ Roomate Needed,College Park,  frame.New,never used,still in plas­ 2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by  Fellers ­ how's that mono?  
222 S. Michigan street.  336-4235  Second Semester  tic.$225  11/6.Call Scott 800-755·2323  
234-5200  Ext.C55841  Call243-1115  219-862-2082  x47091v msg  Organic Chemistry rocks my world.  


--~---~--------·----------------~------------~~~----~----------~~---------~~--.--------­
Wednesday, November 4, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Stewart leaves Padres for assistant GM job 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO 

Dave Stewart, who as pitching 1:oaeh help1~d hmd San Diego to the World Serins, is leaving the l'adms to become assistant gen­l'ral nmnagN with the Toronto Blue .lays. 
The move, announced Tuesday. rntums Stewart to a team he pitdwd li1r in 1993 and IIJIJ4. The franchise is now doudml by uncertainty, its bud­get a qtwstion mark and its lease with the Skyi>onw in limbo. 
Stewal'l, however, said he liked Toronto as a city and viewed the nnw job as ideal for learning the management skills that will help him mov1~ up the front-ollke ladder. 
"None of thosl~ questions wern even a topie for me in coming hnrP," Stewart said of the .lays' off-lidd prohlmns. "My biggest cone1~rn was wanting to learn tlw job of a gennral manager." 
Stewart. 41. also talknd with 
A CONTINUING LECTURE AND DISCUSSION SERIES: 
• 
'{O~ 
1G\\'{\!Rev. Bill Seetch, C.S.C. 
·._,;: 
No'J. VND£RSTAND1NG 
\\ Prof. John Cavadini 
No'J· WlSDOM 
\" Ms. Chandra Johnson 
7pm -Log Chapel SPONSORED BY CAMPl/S MINISTRY AND TilE 
CONGREGATION OF HOLY CROSS 
the Oakland Athletics and con­sidered an offer from Florida. 
The four-time 20-game winner helped Toronto win the 1993 World Series after winning the ALCS MVP award against the Chicago White Sox. lie has always had a fondness for Toronto, whnre he continues to be involved in local charities. 
Pitching was a big reason the Padres reached the World Series, where they were swept by the New York Yankees. 
"It's tough to leave my pitching staff," Stewart said in a confer­ence call. "My biggest problem is disconnecting myself from guys I worked with." 
With the stall' bolsternd by the addition of acn Kevin Brown, the Padres' pitching improved dra­matically, from a franchise­worst 4.99 EHA in 1997 to 3.63 this ynar, third-best in the NL. 
Brown is a free agent, but Stewart said the Blue Jays aren't likely to put in a bid. He is seek­ing a five-or six-year deal. 
• BASKETBALL 
Attention Students: 

Get your basketball season tickets and ND vs. IU tickets at the following locations-Nov. 4-South Dining Hall 
Nov. 5-North Dining Hall 
Nov. 6-South Dining Hall 
(!O:OOam -2:00pm) 
Season Tickets-Only $44 
ND vs. IU-$8 

Must show your student ID. 
page IS
The Observer • SPORTS 

('J.· ··• ... · · +····•.····· t b II k
* \;tncinnal!l~J!O ge · new a par 
Voters sided with the Cincinnati Reds and over­whelmingly rejected an issue Tuesday that would have pre­vented a new baseball park along the Ohio River. 
Nearly three years attar Hamilton County voters approved funding for a base­ball stadium, they went along with the Heds' wishes to put it next to Cinergy Field. 
An issue that would have put the ballpark on the northern fringe of downtown was losing by a nearly 2-1 margin with 66 percent of the vote counted Tuesday night. 
The Ohio proposition was one of three involving major· league stadiums. In Denver, voters W<}re to decide whether to extend a penny~per-$1 0 sales tax to build a $395 mil• lion stadium for the Super Bowl champion. Broncos. replacing Mile High Stadium. And San Diego voters had to decide whether to approve city expenditure of $275 million on new stadium for baseball's 
•NBA 
Denver votes for ne-w stadium 
Associated Press precincts reporting. the mea­
sure was approved by 320,050 

DENVER voters, or 57 percent, and 
Residents of the six-county rejected by 237,927, or 43 Denver metro area agreed percent. Tuesday to build a mostly tax­The Broncos-backed Citizens payer-funded stadium for the for a New Stadium (CFANS) Denver Broncos. urged a "yes" vote, insisting 
Referendum 4A. which some the Broncos can't be competi­observers believed would tive in an aging stadium that decide the fate of the Broncos pays Bowlen no revenues, a as well, asked taxpayers to situation that might eventually extend the penny-per-$1 0 force the Broncos to leave sales tax that built Coors Denver. Field. Citizens Opposing the 
The proposal provides $270 Stadium Tax (COST) countered million of the projected $360 that the Broncos are bound by million to construct the new their current lease at Mile 
stadium, with Broncos owner High Stadium. and that requir­Pat Bowlen picking up the ing taxpayers to pay 75 per­remainder of the tab. cent of the cost is too steep. 
With 1,365 of 1, 704 Just two hours after the 
---------------:----------......,season. 
~ 

~.,t....,..:Jr'p \?"a...-...~r.,n~~~· 
v 

HAIR MODELS NEEDED For Monday's Training Program by Licensed Professionals. Call for Information. 289-5080 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 


INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
Academic Year 1999-2000 
Came and meet Professor Gernot Guertler from Austria Director of the Innsbruck Program 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 5, 1998 
4:30 P.M. 120 DEBARTOLO 

Application Deadline Dec. 1, 1998 
ralites;
The defeat of Cincinnati's Issue 11 removed one of the last major obstacles to a retro ballpark next to the stadium where the Reds have played since 1970. The new ballpark is projected to open in 2003. 
"It's critical to our future that we were victorious tonight and were able to get the stadi­um on the riverfront," Reds managing executive John Allen said. 
The issue on the ballot Tuesday amounted to a refer­endum on where to build. The Reds characterized it as a deal breaker and were adamant about staying along the river. 
Proponents argued that the stadium could be built faster and cheaper and bring more economic benefits to the area if it's built on a tract of land on the northeast edge of down· town. 
"It's absolutely time to move on." said city councilman Todd Portune, a leader of the push to build at the Broadway COnt,lllOns site instead of the riverfront. "I felt the people needed to be able to express their voice on the decision. I'm happy taxpayers had that opportunity." 

The Heds and the county reached a preliminary agree­ment last July to build a 45,000-seat stadium between Cinergy and a coliseum to the east. Part of Cinergy will have to be torn down while the RBds are playing there to accommo· date the now ballpark. 
Architects and prospective project managers have studied the concept and found no major problem with it, Allen said. 
"I guess we haven't had the final blessing per se, but we've had a lot of people look at it and give their tentative opin­ions on it. We don't feel the feasibility study of it is going to be a problem at all," Allen said. 
HOK Sports Facilities Group has been chosen to design the park. HOK also worked on Jacobs Field in Cleveland, Coors Field in Denver and Oriole Park at Camden Yards in Baltimore. 
polls closed, Bowlen issued a written statement, saying the night "belongs to the best fans anywhere" and that "ultimate­ly tonight belongs to the voters who had the wisdom to know that this stadium proposal was the best solution for the Denver region for years to come. You have ensured pas­sage of a referendum that will further enhance Denver's sta­tus as one of the greatest cities in America." 
The new 76,125-seat, open­air stadium will be located on 83 acres adjacent to current Mile High Stadium, which will be torn down. Construction is expected to take about two years, meaning it would be ready for the 2001 football 
"We had a game plan and we executed it," CFANS cam­paign director Bill Artist said. 
COST spokesman Hay Hutchins said his group suc­ceeded in raising awareness of "corporate welfare. It's unfair, and that's what this is all about. We don't think it's a major victory when we've got people turning down educa­tion and voting for a stadium." 
Want to escape those winter blues? 
<J,~"'f t.d.~h (',y~e.l ...d.,,c~ 
~.(~ rorl~ 

London~·~ $15~.-. 
Madrid $238·. ,-· 
Vienna $293 ·.•· 
\•'-'~ . . '~ 
Cancun $250: 
hl'a .,. frot~~~ l•«<lln~...c• W1f' Ms•40fl 1 
kT parchaaL faru do QOllnclucle tuaa.whktli aft rouiiMhi'Hfl SJ an• $10.1nt1 Studenl 10 M • k requiNd. ,.,.., ,,. valid tor d.,art.,,.. In 
tow •••Oft lft4 are •ubt•tt to dt•n•· ' 
k•nnnktftl .,.,.Cal lar our lcM llotftenlc ,.,., 
•nit ,.,.. ro odter wworllt wilt• de•U..auont. · Don't forpt to order )'OUr Euraltpaul 
1-800-2Council 
www. council travel. com
-· 

.. 
-
-
·­
------..-------~'~':"'-----~...---~~-----___. ---­
r 4 
page 16 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

Buckeyes star(­
season In• new arena 
Nsociated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
One thing is certain: No one will ever mistake Ohio State's new Schottenstein Center for old, gray St. John Arena. 
The $110 million arena played host to its first official event Tuesday night when the men's basketball team opened its exhibition season with a convincing 107-75 victory over One World Basketball before an enthusiastic crowd of 12,280, about 7,000>below capacity. 
But the game, featuring a remolded Buckeyes team that went 1-15 in the Big Ten last year, wasn't the reason for the electric atmosphere. 
The building was the star of the night. 
"When you first walk into this arena, you can't get over the surroundings," Ohio State coach Jim O'Brien said. "I'm looking forward to the day when we get this place rock• in g." 
"I'm breathless," Ohio State athletic director Andy Geiger said. "I don't know how to put it into words. This is a collec­tion of visions that have come together from staff. architects and planners." 

"We're tremendously excited about tonight," said senior associate athletics director Paul Krebs, who was the uni· versity's point man on the facility. "Tonight the torch is being passed from· construe· tion people to event-manage­ment staff." 
St, John Arena, Ohio State's home for 42 seasons, was a mass of dingy aluminum and gray concrete. The new place is bright, brick and colorful, with 52 private boxes, 250 television monitQrs, se.at licefises that cost up to $15,000 apiece and more than 700,000 square feet ofspace. 
The arena receivM glowing reviews from Ohio State's players. 
"It's' a shOoter'$ court," Michael Redd said after scor­ing 25 points to lead five Buckeyes in double figures. "It's just a great atmosphere." . 
For those who had been worldng daily on the structure, it was a nervous moment. 
''It's been a long process. I've been involVed for four years," Krebs said. "The last 18 months are a blur, with the bulk of mytime spent on the arena. I'm excited about tonight. I haven't slept wen in six months.~ 
• WOMEN's BASEKETBALL 

-Big East coaches vote on preseason favorites 
The University of Notre Dame women's basketball team has been selected by the league 13 head coaches to fin­ish third in the 1998-99 regu­lar season title race. 
Connecticut, which has won the regular-season and tour­nament titles the last five years, has been picked to win the regular season. The Huskies received nine first­place votes. 
Rutgers has been tabbed to finish second as the Scarlet Knights received four first­place votes. Boston College follows the

-
Irish in fourth and Villanova has been chosen fifth. Rounding out the field is Miami in sixth, Georgetown in seventh, a tie for eighth between Syracuse and West Virginia, Providence is lOth, followed by St. John's, Seton Hall and Pittsburgh. 
The Big East returns to a one-division format for the 1998-99 season. For the past three years, the league was split into the Big East 6 and Big East 7 Divisions. 
Senior captain Sheila McMillen and Irish center Ruth Riley were named to the Preseason All-Big East Second Team. 

What are you doing over Winter Break? 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Apply for the extended urban plunge experience ... 
Chicago: City of Hope? 
a week long seminar over Winter Break exploring issues facing,i!he inner city of Chicago. 
Information sessions ~:;00 pm @ CSC Tuesday, N~v. 3 Wednesday, Nov. 4 
Any? CallMaureenHoover (4341) 
Wednesday, November 4, 1998
The Observer· SPORTS 
Kentucky romps All-Stars 103-7 4 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 

Heshimu Evans scored 20 points and Scott Padgett 19 as Kentucky beat the California South All-Stars 103-74 in an exhibition game Tuesday night. 
Padgett had six points dur­ing a 19-3 run that gave the defending national champion Wildcats a 70-35 lead with 
13:27 left in the game. 
Evans, who finished 8-of-13 from the field, had seven assists as Kentucky finished with 26. Padgett had eight rebounds and six assists. Michael Bradley, starting for the first time in his career, added 15 points, seven rebounds and five assists along with two blocked shots. 
"We need a lot of improve­ment, but I was impressed with the 26 assists." Kentucky coach Tubby Smith said. "I knew Heshimu, Scott and Michael could pass the ball." 
The All-Stars were led by Brad Quinct, who played at San Jose State, with 18 points and seven rebounds. B.J. Flynn and Damian Dantzler, who both played at Louisville, finished with 12 and 10 points respectively. Dantzler added seven rebounds. 
Charles O'Bannon of UCLA added 12 points and four rebounds. Jelani McCoy had eight points and 12 rebounds. 
Kentucky freshman Jules Camara had 13 points and seven rebounds and another freshman, Desmond Allison, added 10 points. Tayshaun Prince, also a freshman, added eight points. 
"We did some good things," Smith said. "We played very unselfishly and moved the ball well. I thought the freshmen played well and are very ath­letic." 
Kentucky hit 41 of 76 shots from the floor for 53.9 per­All-Stars 17-2. Evans had 12 cent, but was outrebounded of the Wildcats' first 20 51-46. The All-Stars were 27-points. of-78 for 34.6 percent. Kentucky led 31-20 with 

Kentucky led 9-8 with 15:38 5:29 in the first half before left in the first half. The scoring nine straight points to Wildcats then outscored the lead 40-20. 
Gavin deBecker 
Presents ............. The Gift oj'Fear Wednesday November 4, 1998 

7:00 p.tn. @The Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Musewn 

Gavin deBecker 

Come hear the nation's leading expert on the prediction ofviolent behavior. Author of the bestseller book The Gift of Fear. Mr. deHecker will give insightful infonnation about :..·talking. unwanted pursuit and how to be saic using your intuitions and best judgements. You have seen him on Oprah and every major talk show now sec and meet him right on campus. This presentation and his book could save your lite! 
Sponsored by Notre Dame SecurityiPolice Uepartment: tor more mtonnation call 631-8338, 
Wednesday, November 4, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
•NBA 
Lockout continues as scheduled season openers pass 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK Did you miss the NBA last night'? 
This was supposed to be the lirst day l'ans could open their n11 wspap11 r or log on to the lntnrnnt and peruse the game storins and boxscorns from around the league. 
That's not possible today, of coursn, becausn the NBA lockout has put the season on hold. Last night's l 0 games are only the beginning or a paradn of cancellations that has no nnd in sight. Another II games were supposed to bn played tonight. 
"If I had to guess, the f'irst. ganw will be Dec. 25, because that's wlwn NBC's money and tho big ehips are on the tabln," Utah's Karl Malone said on ESI'N. "(l)avid) Stern wants players to miss two or thrnn paychecks to start fenl­ing tlw mnssagn. 
Stern was among the princi­pal players in the 126-day-old lockout who were sdwduled to lw back at tlw bargaining table today trying to jump­start labor talks that havo stallnd for the past week. 
Also scheduled to attend the talks at a Manhattan law office wHro deputy corn m is­sinner Huss Granik. union dirnctor Billy llunter and union president Patrick Ewing. 
On Tunsday, boxes were pii•HI high in front of the lock­er wlwre Ewing usually suits up. Exerdso cycles and empty ball racks were strnwn about. mops w•n·n standing in the corner and three garbage buckets were stuffed into Tnrry Cummings' locker. 
That was how things looked at Madison Square Garden. wlwre the New York Knicks 
were supposed to have opened their 1998-99 season against the Boston Celtics. 
"Unfortunately, the Knicks' locker room has been turned into a storage room." a tour guide explained. "My best guess is it will stay this way until January." 
"They have a pie, and they are fighting over how much of the pie each side gets to eat," the Madison Square Garden guide explained to a group of 16 tourists from the United States, the Netherlands, Greece, Spain and Ireland. "The owners and players are each getting this much," he said, holding his hands a rew inches apart, "and the owners arc trying to force the players to take this much," he said, moving his hands within an inch of each other. 
"They should all be disgust­ed with themselves," said Sophia Bogdasarian, a tourist from outside of Boston. 
If her words reflected the feelings of basketball fans worldwide. the lockout moved into a new phase Tuesday as the reality of canceled games hit home. 
The league may be banking on the belief that basketball fans are different from base­ball fans and will be more likely to forgive and forget when this dispute is finally resolved. 
But an ESPN poll conducted Oct. 31-Nov. 1 found that almost 63 percent of sports fans over the age of 18 did not care if the entire season was eanccled, and more than 37 percent of people who con­sider themselves NBA fans don't care if the season is canceled. 
"It will be an extraordinary amount of work," Stern said or regaining fan interest. "We 
will have to almost beg their indulgence. 
"If we do lose this season, we're nevertheless going to come back and play eventual­ly, and we hope that om bas­ketball fans will bear with us," he said. 
Stern said progress at the bargaining table may be hard 
to  come  by.  "It doesn't look  
so  good,"  Stern  said  on  
MSNBC.  "I  heard  that the  

head of the union, Billy Hunter, announced he didn't think games would be played until January, and I gather that somebody is worrying him, whether it's the agents ror the big players or whatev­er may have caused him to change his tune. 
"Obviously once we get into December without a deal, if that occurs, then I'd say the season is in jeopardy," Stern said. 
In Oakland, workers at the Oakland Coliseum Arena were getting ready to deal with the loss of income that missed games represents. 
"A lot of us do have other jobs. But we have a lot of retired people," said ushers captain Kathy Blandford, who has worked at the arena and the neighboring Oakland Coliseum for the past two decades. "For some, it's their lone source of income. We have women who have Social Security, and that's it. Without this, they can't make 
it... In Salt Lake City, where the Jazz were supposed to have played the Vancouver Grizzlies, the Delta Center was dark and the team's two Western Conference champi­onship banners were almost covered by shadows in the rafters. The actual court on which Michael Jordan won his 


For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
AII Meetings are private and confidentia I. 

sixth championship less than five months ago was packed away in storage. 
At the Georgia Dome, the sound of the empty, creaking outdoor escalator was the only break in the silence sur­rounding the locked stadium. 
A few people showed up at 

the box office to buy Atlanta Falcons tickets, but otherwise the dome was missing the normal hoopla that takes place in preparation for a Hawks game. 
"Not much is happening here," ticket manager Keith Ayers said. 
Please Recycle the Observer 
Win a room reservation at The Morris Inn for JPW! Pick up entry forms at The Morris Inn or at the JPW Office in 206 LaFortune. If you win, your parents must still pay for the room. However, they are guaran­teed one of the few rooms on cam­pus for one of the busiest week­ends of the year. Applications are due November 23, 1998 and the drawing is on November 24. If you have questions, call the JPW Office at 1-6028. 
-
. ' 
a 


--~--------­
-·~--------------------------~~----------­
-

Till~ lUrrliDmrn JPilmrn~~ 
~ 
Registration Deadline: Friday, November 6 
Applications due to the Center for Social Concerns by 5:00 p.m. 

The Urban Plunge program is a 48-hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting. To date, over 3,000 students have participated in the Urban Plunge. 
-

Urban Plunge: The Basics 
Who: Notre Dame, Saint Mary's College and Holy Cross College students. 
What: The Church and Social Action, colloquially known as the Urban Plunge, is a 2-day experience that takes place in one of many cities throughout the U.S. Students observe and/or work with individuals, agencies and parishes which are striving to meet the needs of the disenfranchised of society. 
Why: To give students the opportunity to experience first-hand the problems of injustice and poverty that exist in urban areas of America. 
·A 48 hour period between January 2-9, 1999 
1998-1999 Urban Plunge Sites 
-
Albany, New York Philadelphia* Albuquerque, New Mexico Pittsburgh Atlanta Portland Buffalo Rochester, New York Chicago* Sacramento Cincinnati San Antonio Cleveland San Diego 
-
Columbus, Ohio South Bend Dallas St. Louis Detroit* St. Petersbug, Florida Gary Vera Beach, Florida Grand Rapids Washington D.C.* Honolulu, Hawaii* Brooklyn Houston New Orleans Indianapolis Mobile Kansas City, Missouri Minneapolis* Kansas City, Kansas Milwaukee Los Angeles New York* Peoria *Indicates cities with two or more sites 


He Told Me to Look Twice 
He told me to look twice. I looked and saw a cook Who made lunch To ease the pain Of Berkeley's overlooked A meal of chicken fried and cake. 
There isn't time to count the fat. You see, she said, When AIDS has death at your door. 
He told me to look twice. 
I looked, and saw a man 
Twice my age Of separate race Who smiled and so began A Story of a migrant life. 
I'd like to travel too, said I. Yes, he smiled. But you won't ride the Freight trains. 
He told me to look twice I did, and so I think That what he meant was listen. 

Katherine Redding 1994 Urban Plunge 




Wednesday, November 4, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•LEFT fiELD 
BCS fails in attempt to guarantee undisputed champ 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Spom Columnisr 

What arn tl111 thrnn most important lntlnrs in coll•~go football? 
With a nnw systnm in eollegn football whon~by tho top two teams an~ guaran­teed to play onn another for tho nation­al rhampionship, thnse Jnttnrs are BCS. 
Tlw Bowl Championship Series was dnsignml in ordnr to identify tlw dear­cut eollegn football national champion, but it is no h•~ttnr than the old system. 
Thn best indieator of its shortcomings and also the most scrutiniznd faetor in the national championship equation an~ tho BCS rankings. These rankings, whieh fnaturn the top 15 teams based on a formula morn complicated than mechanical engineering, are used to determine the two teams that will play in the Fiesta Bowl, the site of this year's national championship. 
Thn problems with the BCS rankings begins in the derivation of the scores that rnsult in each team's placement. Thnrn are four categories whieh are added together for a total score. The lowest total score in the nation, Ohio State this wnek, is awarded the top spot, and so on down to the 15th team in tlw rankings. 
Two of thn categories are pretty self­explanatory-a score based on the average rank of a team in the two major polls, the Associated Press media poll and the USA Today-ESPN coaches poll, and a tabulation of losses where orw point is added for each loss. 
Tho other two categories are a bit morn complicatnd. One involves a com­bination of thrne more polls -The llestnr & Andnrson!Seattle Times, Jeff' Sagarin's rankings and the Nnw York Times rankings. These polls arc so dif­ferent that they could not agree on the placement of any one team in any one ranking in the whole poll. 
Tlw last category is Quartile 1\ank, or strength of schedule. Cumulativn win-loss records of a teams opponents counts for two-thirds of the Quartile Hank, with the eumulative win/loss n1eord of the team's opponnnts' opponents count­ing for the remaining third. 
What does this mean? Well, not only should we root for Baylor to win the rest of their games, but we should root for Baylor's opponents to win the rest of their games. 
As flawed as their polls and the derivations of these polls may be, the real flaw in the system is that it leaves room for last year's Michigan­Nebraska problem to resur­face. There are seven teams in the BCS rankings which are undefeated: Ohio State, Tennessee, UCLA, Kansas State, Wisconsin, Arkansas, and Tulane. 
Barring any upsets, Tennessee and Arkansas will meet in the SEC champi­onship. While none of the other undefeated teams face one another, every team has 
the potential to fall: Ohio State goes into its game with Michigan at a severe mental disadvantage; UCLA almost lost to Stanford -enough said; Kansas State has a date with Nebraska; Wisconsin must play Penn State and Michigan in consecutive weeks; and Tulane is the most vulnerable team in the poll. 
Nonetheless, I believe that Ohio State, Tennessee, UCLA and Kansas State will all remain undefeated. What does this mean? The top two teams, Ohio State and Tennessee right now, would play one another in the BCS while the other teams would wait to be selected by the 
rank~ 


Schedule Quartilerank rank Losses Total 
1998 Bowl Championship Series 
r -Polls I I Computer rankings AP USA Today/ (med1a ESPN Poll Jeff N.Y. Seattle ComputerRank Team poll) (coaches poll) avg. Sagarln Times Times• avg. 
1. Ohio State 1.00 2 2.25 (3) 1.75 
~­

".:.~;~ter.~assee ~.75 (5) 2 2.92 
~;;-"' 

3. UCLA 3 4 3.00 "~ K~nsas Sl~t~ 3 3 (4) 2.33 5. Florida 5 6 6 5.67 6. Florida St. 6 2 6(8) 4.67 
[
.~:.~ ,..., ... 7. TexasA&M 7 7 8.17 ''"""~%~ ,.... 
·····,a

B:~YY~sK:onllin 
9. Penn State 10 11.67 10. Arizona 10.50
•'"'"'"·-··1~:~.(!~) 
11.08 10.00; 13 12.25 

14. Texas 
1s.s <1~L~-~~~~ 

15. Virginia 12 12 
12.00 20 21 19 20.00 
0 

39.76
•i:t~:!i1:!~4!.hli .. ,,,,·,.1~ _,_,,ll.IM~..I«il!i<ll,~ij;t~t, ..":.!l>,:~~ 
,:..._,..el!,_._ ... 
'~:~ 
.... 

~~ ~--·~· ~-'"'" 
17. Syracuse 15 17 
16.00 1B 17 26.25 (29) 20.42 
37 
1.40 
2 

39.90 
Polls Computer rankings Quartile rank Total 
Rankings of each team are Rankings of each team Cumulative won-loss Two teams 
added, then divided by two. are added, then divided records of a team's with the 
bY. three. To prevent unusual opponents (worth 66.67%) lowest total 
differences in individual and cumulative won-loss play in the 
formulas, a maximum records of the team's BCStitle
·Hester & Anderson/Seattle Times adjusted deviation of no opponent's opponents game. 
24 I 0.96
1 

0 

3.71 7 0.28 
0 

5.70 
3 
0.12 
0 

6.62 68 2.72 
0 

8.05 
8 
0.32 

11.99 15 0.60 
12.27 21 1 
98 
0 31 
46 
63 
0 12 
2 51 
2.04 
1 

28.29 17 0.68 
2 

34.68 80 3.20 
36.20 

greater than 50% of the (33.33%) are ranked average of the two lowest then divided by 25. computer rankings is utilized. 

remaining bowls in the Alliance. The third and fourth teams might not even play one another. Translation: more than two of the top four teams could potentially finish the season undefeated and not win the national championship. 
How should we solve this problem? As much as I hate to listen to this man speak on anything, Ohio State's coach John Cooper has the best solution: a playoff in line with the BCS. Cooper's idea is to follow the BCS system to a degree and then have any undefeated teams play one another. For example, if the top four teams were to finish the season undefeated, the first-ranked and fourth~ranked teams would play while the second-ranked and third­ranked teams would fight it out. The respective winners of each game would then play in a "championship" after the bowls had all been played. 
Would this work? Yes, unless there are five or more undefeated teams who all happen to occupy the top five rank­ings in the BCS poll. 
The odds of that, however, are simi­lar to someone hitting 70 home runs in a season. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 4, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Yankees' Torre wins AP manager of the year accolades 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

Joe Torre, whose patience and calming inlluence helped guide the New York Yankees to perhaps the greatest season ever, won The Associated Press manager of the year award Tuesday. 
Torre received 85 votes from a panel of writers and broad­casters for leading the Yankees to a record 125 wins and their 24th World Series champi­onship. San Diego's Bruce Bochy finished second with 48 1/2 votes. followed by the Cubs' Jim Higgleman (20 1/2), Houston's Larry Dierker (10) and Boston's .limy Williams (8). 
"It's nice to grt recognition." said Torre. who won the AP NL manager of the year award in 1982 while with Atlanta. Since 1984. only one award has been given for both leagues. 
"During the season we went through, you have one purpose in mind -to win the World Series," Torre said. "All of a sudden. the awards come along and it's like a cherry on top of a great season. I was just along for the ride." 
But Torre did more than just ride his players to an AL­record 114 wins during the regular season and an 11-2 postseason mark, capped by a sweep of the San Diego Padres in the World Series. 
In the media maelstrom of New York and with a meddle­some owner like George Steinbrenner, Torre didn't llinch when the team started 1-4. He exhibited remarkable patience and kept his team focused on each game even though the Yankees ran away from the rest of the American League by Memorial Day. 
"When you get to the All-Star break with 61 wins, you real­ize this has a chance to be a pretty damn good team," Torre said. "I was cautious because it's hard to hold the edge that long. It's a manager's job to always be concerned and cau­tious and never look too far forward. 
"I don't care how good you arc, to win as many games as we won is an incredible accomplishment." 
Torre played a major role in that feat by juggling his deep lineup. letting players know their roles, and even calling a team meeting to admonish his team after a particularly lethargic performance at Tampa Bay in September. 
Torre said his job was little more than writing out a lineup card. making pitching changes and patting guys on the back every once in a while. But his players know that baseball's best team didn't operate on autopilot. 
"For the most part, he lets us play," Bernie Williams said during the World Series. "He has a very good idea of what everyone in the room can do and he doesn't expect anything less from us. He doesn't expect anything more from us than to play to our capabilities, and if we're not, he's going to let us hear about it." 
Because of Torre's leader­ship and an extremely talented team. the Yankees won more games -regular and postsea­son -than any other team in history. Torre said winning more games than any other Yankees team was the ultimate 
achieve­ment. 
As for their rank in history, Torre said he hasn't seen a bet­ter team in his nearly 40 years in baseball. 
"You look at the Oakland A's clubs that won a few world cham­pionships in a row and t h e Cincinnati club in '76 that was always a standard for me, I think we have bet­ter pitching than they have," he said. "We have to take a backseat to no one in my lifetime." 
All of the top five vote-get­ters led their teams into the playoffs. Bochy won his second division title in four years as a manager, winning a team­record 98 games and leading the Padres to their first World Series in 14 years. 
Riggleman's Cubs earned the NL wild-card berth and made the playoffs for the first time since 1989. Dierker, in his sec­ond year, won his second NL Central title for the Astros. Williams, in his second year in Boston, earned the AL wild­card berth. 

Astros make Big Unit big offer 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

The Astros have made an offer to bring back Randy Johnson, but they disputed a report in The Houston Chronicle that they proposed a three-year deal worth $33 mil­lion to $36 million. 
General manager Gerry Hunsicker called the dollar fig­ure aggressive. 
"We met with him and made a serious offer, but as far as the term or dollars involved, it's just not appropriate," said Hunsicker. who acknowledged any deal would be for more than one year. 
In a visit to Johnson's home in the Phoenix are. the Astros learned that they were on his short list along with the Anaheim Angels, Arizona Diamondbacks. New York Yankees and Texas Hangers. 
Diamondbacks general man­

... and discover hundreds of intriguing creations handcrafted by skilled artisans. Your purchase helps craftspeople provide food and education for their famllles. 
919 West McKinley Mishawaka (Tel) 255-3536 
VILLAGES. 

ager partner Jerry Colangelo visited Johnson on Sunday, speaking with him, his wife Lisa and agents Barry Meister and Alan Nero. 
Money wasn't mentioned since such a subject is forbid­den suitors other than a play­er's current club until Friday. Johnson has filed for free agency and indicated he wants to see what kind of offers await. 
Johnson. 35. made $6 million 1998. He's thought to be seek­ing $10 million or more;which 
would place him in the salary range of other top pitchers such as Pedro Martinez of the Boston . Red Sox and Greg Maddux of 
the Atlanta Braves. 
First baseman Jeff Bagwell 
currently is the highest paid 
Astro at $8 minion per year. 
Johnson went 19-11 with a 
3.27 ERA and 329 strikeouts for Seattle and Houston last season and has a career record of 143-79. He went 10-1 after Houston acquired him from Seattle on July 31. 
Need Cash?? 
arn $25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
~----------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per 1nonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donation~ Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 1 0 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 

Right o~ Target ·.~
Bring Your Copies to Us! 

When you need high-speed copies and reliable service, come to The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center. Our friendly staff and quality copies hit the bull's-eye every time. Your satisfaction comes first! 
Copyright 1998 • All Rights Reserved 

Wednesday, November 4, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
outside of the field," Petrucelli out and did it. It worked out 
• INTERHALL SOCCER

said. "In the second half, we for us and we were able to put
Big East 
said, 'fine, we'll play through some goals away that we the eenter and if you're gonna weren't able to finish in thecontinued from page 24 push us to the center that first half." 
Green Wave falls to 
means Anne [Makinen) is on Streiffer scored the 51st
The Irish wore down the 
Mountaineers and broke through with four second-half goals. 
"They did pack it [the boxl in pretty well and I thought in the first half, they did a real good job of taking away the 
the ball a little more and we're a little more danger­
ous.'" 

Said Gerardo, "We came in at half-time and coach talked to us about making adjust­ments and we actually went 

Sophomore Anne Makinen had an assist and helped control the mid­field for the Irish, as they outshot the Mountaineers 37-4. 
Please Recycle the Observer 
Haggar College Center Room 303 • 7:00 p.m. 
Students discuss sports and clubs at National University of Ireland, Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! ·• .. 
APPLICATIONS DISTRIB 


TilE CUSIIWA CENTER FOH TilE STUDY OF AMEHICAN CATIIOLICISM 

"Revisiting 'Great Man' History: How the Irish Captured the City of St. Paul" Mary Lcthert Wingerd 
Duk<' l Jnivcrsity 

Tllursd;ty, Novcrnlwr :>, IDDH 
4: I:> p.lll. 
Ilcslarrglt library Lounge 

goal of her career on a give­and-go from Gerardo at 48:05, giving the Irish a 2-0 lead. 
Streiffer is just one of eight players in NCAA history to amass 50 goals and 50 assists in her career. 
Gerardo volleyed in a Jenny Heft cross at 58:53 and head­ed in a cross from Makinen at 
63:14 to help the Irish pull away, 4-0. 
With the assist and two goals, Gerardo moved ahead of Holly Manthei and now is second all-time in points at Notre Dame with 180. She trails Cindy Daws' record mark of 189 points. 
Sophomore Kerri Bakker closed out the scoring for the Irish, when she volleyed in a Lindsey Jones cross for the first-goal of her eareer. 
Notre Dame outshot West Virginia 3 7-4 on the evening. LaKcysia Beene played the complete 90 minutes in goal for the Irish. recording two saves and earning the shutout. 
"The first game is usually the hardest game to play," Petrueelli said. "I think you sec a little bit of nerves early on and I think you saw that with us." 
The short week didn't seem to affect the Irish, as they were able to rest their players over the weekend. 
"We played Friday, we played Sunday, we played Tuesday," Petrucelli said. "It was important that we scored goals and got to rest some people for tonight and even for this coming weekend, we got to rest some people." 
The win was a big confi­dence boost for the team, which hopes to capture its fourth-straight Big East title. 
"This is obviously what we work for, but I think we've still got a ways to go," Gerardo said. We're just going to take one game at a time. We're happy we came out and playnd well tonight." 
8 p m 
apparachfan spring cop land 
the lark ascending vaughan williams carolyn plummer. violin 
eomont overture 
beethoven. op 84 
Dawgs in final 
By MIKE CONNOLLY 
Sports Writer 
The Dawgs' bite was worse than their bark last night as Alumni defeated Fisher on penalty kicks 5-4, capturing the men's interhall soccer champi­onship. 
The midfielders and defend­ers dominated regulation, pre­venting either offense from gen­erating a consistent attack. The first half saw not a single good scoring opportunity, as both sides seemed to be testing the limits of the opposition. 
In the second half. the action opened and more scoring opportunities developed. 
Fisher striker Adrian Washington shredded the Alumni defense and appeared to have a point-blank shot on Alumni goaltender Chris Manuel. 
At the last second, however, Alumni midfielder Bart Lanahan slid in and knocked the ball away. 
"I knew that he [Washington! was their biggest threat," Lanahan said. "That was the only time that he beat us in reg­ulation but I knew I had to catch him and make a play." 
Lanahan was also involved in Alumni's best scoring chance of regulation. Off a corner kick, he used his superior size to soar above the defenders and head­ed the ball at the goal. 
Fisher goalie Rob Capone made an equally amazing play to rob Lanahan of the score. 
"This game was a back and forth game," Capone said. "Whoever seized the momen­tum last was going to win." 
When overtime began, it was clearly the Alumni Dawgs who had seized the momentum. 
The first overtime period was played almost entirely on the Wave side of the field. Every time Fisher's defenders man­aged to clear the ball, Alumni 


c..J 
hursday 
1 1 . 5 . 9 8 
admission free open to the public 

immediately regained control and counterattaeked. 
"Offensively we couldn't get much started," Lanahan said. "But our defense kept creating scoring opportunities." 
Time and time again, excel­lent Alumni scoring opportuni­ties were thwarted by the hustle of Fisher sweeper Ben Bayer. 
Alumni's best scoring oppor­tunity of the first overtime eame with only seconds remaining. 
Kabir Audu stole a sloppy Fisher pass deep in their own end. Alluding two defenders, Audu fired a shot that sailed just inches wide of the net. 
,.
Fisher managed to even out the play a little bit in the seeond overtime. Alumni did not con­trol the pace of the action as well and Fisher took advantage of its speed to generate scoring chances. 
Washington's athleticism again was the key to Fisher's best scoring chanee, as he blew past three Alumni defenders before having the ball knocked away again by a Dawg defender seconds before he. got the shot ofT. 
Alumni's best scoring oppor­tunity came off another head ball. A cross was redirected by Audu, but Capone made anoth­er great save. 
Unable to determine a cham­pion in regulation, the game moved to the always-thrilling penalty kick shootout. 
Lanahan beat Capone on the first shot, but his goal was answered by a Fisher goal. Brian Stanley fooled Capone to give Alumni a 2-1 lead, but Hamon Barreno countered with a goal of his own for Fisher. 
Alumni and Fisher traded two more goals before Audu steppnd in and scored Alumni's fifth goal of the night. 
Trailing five to four, Vince Desapio stepped to the line for Fisher. Desapio struck the ball hard and set a line drive toward Manuel's left. Manuel dove left and stopped the shot. 
"Every shot had been hitting the sides of the net," Manuel said. "I was guessing to soon. On the last shot I waitnd a little longer to sec what the shooter was going to do. Then I made my guess and got lucky." 
Manuel's save sent waves of jubilation threw the Alumni supporters as they rushed the field chanting "Dawgs Soccer." 
"We played hard," Capone said. "Its tough to sec a great game like that end on penalty kicks." 
"This was definitely the toughest team we faced all year," Lanahan said. "Their defense played superb, especial­ly their sweeper. We are just 
thrilled with the victory." 


• 
page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, November 4, 1998 
position with Deke Cooper and Last year's record of 2-5 at A'Jani Sanders, two tight this point in the 1997 season
Davie 

ends, two fullbacks, I could go illuminated a lack of depth on and on and that's been a that now doesn't keep Davie
continued from page 24 

real positive thing for us. up at nights. 
"We've talked a lot about "I think that's a credit to our With the healthy return of competition at positions and players because I do think we Guilbeaux, Sanders and this trying to bring out the best in have an unselfish group that week Grant Irons, Davie and each other," Davie said. "You has allowed us to be consis­his staff have one of those look at the strong safety with tent in what our objectives are rare "nice problems," in that Tony Driver and Benny and that is to be better as a they practically have two Guilbeaux. the free safety team," he said. starters at several positions. 
Lamont Bryant switched back to rush linebacker in Irons' absence. 
This weekend both will play at rush linebacker. where both now have experience and both have been effective. 
Davie had the opposite prob­lem last year when an injury to linebacker Bobbie Howard forced Jimmy Friday to switch positions and Irons to play prematurely. 
But the pressure still mounts. 
The Boston College Eagles loom on the horizon, and Davie knows B.C. is itching to break its five-game losing streak to Notre Dame. 
Doing it at home would be The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
even sweeter, especially since Senior Jarious Jackson hopes to continue his steady play when the in a broader scale, the Eagles 6-1 Irish travel to Chestnut Hill, Mass., to take on Boston College. dropped 11 of the last 15 games against the Irish. Davie will rely on the team's think we can continue to 
"You always talk about los­attitude to ensure that only improve if we keep our eye on ing can bring out in the worst the latter part of that phrase the target. We all know we in you sometimes" Davie said. will apply to the upcoming have a long way to go as a "Winning is the same way if weeks. football team but there are you're not careful, it can bring "If we continue to be some things that are really out the worst or it can bring unselfish we can get some encouraging to me that bears out the best in you." momentum," Davie said. "I out the unselfishness." 
Spurrier, Gators still hope to have a shot at title 
Associated Press to fifth in the BCS standings after year." give the Volunteers one more board once their games are over.
-last week's 38-7 victory over Under the new system, the top chance to lose. They haven't yet gotten around GAINESVILLE, Fla. Georgia. That's the highest of all two teams in the BCS rankings Ohio State always has trouble to trying to figure out the BCS,No. 5 Florida needs lots of help the teams with one loss. will play for the national title with Michigan. Kansas State however.for a shot at the national title. Upcoming games against 
Jan. 4 at the Fiesta Bowl. hasn't beaten Nebraska in 29 "You understand it a little bit It might take a computer pro­Vanderbilt (2-6) and South 
Ironically, by losing the SEC straight tries. UCLA still has more every day," cornerback grammer, however, to figure out Carolina (1-8) won't help their East title to Tennessee, Florida's Washington, Southern Cal and Teako Brown said. "But it's no 
just how that chance would 
cause in the strength-of-sched­chances of moving up could be Miami on its schedule. big deal. If you're not in Arizona come about. 
ule category. enhanced simply because the The Gators don't deny that come January, it doesn't even"Maybe Bill Gates is control­But a season-ending victory at SEC championship game would they'll be peeking at the score-matter." 


ling the national championship Florida State -a place the race," Florida linebacker Johnny Gators haven't won since 1986 Rutledge said Tuesday, making -would likely make up for it. 
note of the new Bowl Then, Florida would need Championship Series formula three of the top four teams ­put into place this season. Ohio State, Tennessee, UCLA 
"Teams rise and fall. I don't and Kansas State -to lose really pay too much attention. I somewhere down the road. don't know much about it, you "They're all very capable of don't know much about it, the­losing one," coach Steve Spurrier 
coaches don't know much about said. "Tennessee probably has it... 
the easiest road. Kansas State 
However it happened, the plays Nebraska. And UCLA? 
Gators (7-1, 5-1 Southeastern They have managed to win, but 
-Conference) moved from seventh they've won some close ones this 
Looking for a Well Paying Campus job? 

The Observer Advertising Department is currently hiring for Advertising Account Executives. Great RESUME BUILDER for all majors. FUN AND EXCITING WORK, opportunity to make GREAT MONEY. Sophomores and Freshmen in Business school are strongly encouraged to apply, but the position is open to an job seekers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Stop by our office in 024 South Dining HaiJ with a resume, or caJI 1-6900 and ask for Bryan. 
The Notre Dame Department of Finance and 
Invite you to attertdthe O'Brien-Smith Lecture Series featuring R. Preston McAfee, The Murray S. Johnson Economics """ University of Texas at Austin "Auction Design in the Real World: Airwaves 
Privitization" Thursday, November 5, 1998 3:30p.m. University of Notre Dame College of Business Administration Jordan Auditorium 

McAfee has been extensively involved in the creation of markets government administrative procedures, sale of the use of radio frequencies, and the 
e for electricity. He and two other ~.........~...,._Design Inc., a company that assists . as radio frequencies, mineral rights, ith great pleasure that we welcome R. Notre Dame. 
Wednesday, November 4, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
JASoN, JUST How MAN'!' oF THESE HALLoWEEN BooB'!' TRAPS DtD YoU PLAt-IT!'! 
:-.~~1 
( ~ (\'~ ,\; ~ 
DILBERT 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Fixed up agam 6 Highest point 10 Off-base, unofficially 14 Solo 15 CaJole 16 Venus de t 1 Worthless types 20 ·Your excellency" 21 Tell a whopper 22 Bob Marley's music 23 Fed lines to 25 Late-night schmoozer Jay 26 Recovered consciousness 29 Total 30 Dateless 34 "· you ready yet?" 35 Stra1tlaced 

TI-\I5 CL05E.O 000?­CAN'T STOP 1"\£.! I'LL CURSE. IT OFF ITS ~Or. 2! .ret \-\INGE.S! 
BILL AMEND 
WELL, IF I 
EXCLuDE 
"Tl-4E ONiiS IN THE BASEMENT 
AND THE 

SCOTT ADAMS 
l'M A B~RGE.R., NOT A KNOCKER. .. 
37 Zeta's follower 38 Classic 
invention 41 Smgleton 42 Horse holders 43 Walkway 44 Protective 
covcnng 46 Gobbled up 47 Comedian 
Marty 48 Eyebrow shape so The "C" of 
C.O.D. 51 Mag1c charm 54 Droop 55 Arboretum item 59 Part of making a 
favorable Impression? 
62 Funeral stand 63 Debaucher 64 "Alfie" star 
M1chael 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Loretta Swit, Pauline Trigerc, 
Morkie l'ost, Walter Cronkite 
Happy Birthday: You will delve into all sorts of unusu.1l causes this year. Your ability to bring order 
where chews h.1s made its mark will 
enhance your popularity and direct you to a leadership position. Your insight and adaptability will help you to make the necessary changes. This o~vill be a time to step forward and let your thou)\hts bL' known. Your num­
bers: -l, 10, I'!, 2fi, 37, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April19): Don't mrJkL' monl'\' dl'cisions before noon. Catch up on.on~rdue correspondence. Cet together 1\'ith your lover for an L'\'l'J11ng ot .1dn!nture and affection. You c.1n accomplish your objectives thwugh c..\lmmunication. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): New 
rel,ltionships will enhance your popu­
laritv .md raise rour self-esll>cm. Talk 
to superiors about your goals. Do not 
make fin~1ncial promises to organiza­
tions or to children. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Take 
one step at a time. Make your deci· 
sions carefully. Try to avoid confron­
tations. Your emotional well-being 
will be unstable with regard to your 
position in society. 000 
CANCER (june 21-Ju!y 22): Be prepored to counteract any personal .1ffront that comes your way. It is best to stay calm regardless of the situa­tion that you face. Colleagues may be jealous of )'nur accomplishments. 
0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Organize work that involves group endeavors. Take the time to make the necessarv phone calls to ensure a good turnout for events for which you are partially responsible. Be sure not to neglect your mate. 00 

VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): l'ut your energy into your can.'Cr for now. Don'! mak<· decisions regarding your personal life. Uncertainties about your position in socit'ty may c,,use friction in your environment. 
00000 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Oppor­tunities to make extra cash may involve traveling a greater distance. Consider making residential moves. Changes in your domestic scene are likl'ly. Acceptance will be tlw dl'ler­mining factor. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: Prop­erty investments will be lucraliv<•. Changes in your home envirnnmL•nt will prove to be ndv,1ntt1gl'OUS. You can lake care of the responsibililiL'S and demands that others have ll'ft you with. 000 
SAGITI'ARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211: Deception within relation.,hips is likL·· ly. Get all the facts in order to build a strong case. Try not to let your emo­tions get the better of you. Get advice from someone you trust. 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You can make professional changes or advancements by dealing with superiors. Difficulties with females may prevail if you aren't prepared to be secretive about your intentions. 
00000 

AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You can learn new facts about a situation today. Spend time talking to people who can be objective about your worries. Educational pursuits will b..• beneficial. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): KL'Cp an open mind and don't let minor set­backs discourage you. The uncertain­ties J'('garding family members will be difficult to deal with if you aren't pre­paf'('d to accept the inevitable. 0000 
*'0UNTEREST 

jt~~~h~w~:~iner Jnt~rnship Search will be presented by Career and Placement Services today from 4 to 5 
p.m. in the Seminar Room, G20, located in the base· ment of Planner Hall. Freshmen, sophomores. juniors, and interested graduate students are encouraged to 
attend this workshop focusing on resources and tech·
65 Artist Warhol 
niques for researching, pursuing, and obtaining a
66 D. H. 

Lawrence's 
rewarding summer work experience.

"--and 
The Nanovic Institute presents a lecture by
Lovers" 
Professor Gary Hamburg, University of Notre Dame, at
67 Append 
4:15p.m., room 125 DeBartolo on "Historical Consciousness and the End ofSoviet Power." 
DOWN 
1 Tatters 
2 "The Time Machine" people 
3 Entranceway 4 Vulgarly dressed s Rock group 
-Leppard 6 Bitter 7 Dairy Queen 
order a Long March leader 
Wanted: Reporters 
91n --(near death) 10 Buddies. in Baja 11 Museum 
and photographers.
extension 

12 Gymnast Korbut 31 Brief and to the 13 Mislay point
18 Bogus butter 32 Whatsoever
19 Barnyard clucker 33 Star~s open-mouthed
24 Say 25 Hawaiian 
35 Blues singer cookouts 
Bessie 26 Explorer 36 University Sebastian bosses 27 Meadowlands 39 Nuclear plant apparatuses 28 It may have 
40 Skinflint 
quarters 45 Piddling
downtown 47 "Othello" villain
29 It ern sIung in a sl1ng 49 Ump 
so Parisian snack 54 Stupefy sites 56 Surprise attack 
Join The Observer 
51 "Dancing 57 "Cubist" Rubik Queen" pop 
58 Paradise group 
so Tic-tac-toe win 52 Chow-­
61 Early 
staff. 

53 Previously broadcasting owned inits. 
Answers to any three clues 1n this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
1·900-420-5656 (75¢ per m1nute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665 

..... 
, 
... 
-


• Alumni defeats 
• Kentucky basketball 
Fisher in a shootout to 
got underway with a 
capture the interhall 
preseason matchup 
soccer title. 
against the California 
South All-Stars.

PORTS 
p.21 
p.I6 

page 24 -----------------------O THE ---------------Wednesday, November 4, 1998
BSERVER 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
Irish open Big East tourney with 5-0 victory 
By BRIAN KESSLER temperatures and a motivated Irish to this weekend's semifi· Assistant Sporrs Editor West Virginia team in last nal in Storrs, Conn. night's Big East championship "It's hard. You're feet defi­
The second-seeded Notre quarterfinal game at Alumni nitely get a little chilly and it Dame women's soccer team Field. doesn't help with your touch (17 -2-1) fought off 30-degree The victory advances the on the ball," senior Monica 
Gerardo said. "But once you get running around, you're all right. You deal with it." 
Said junior .Jenny Streiffer, "We did well. We came out--with some excitement and we're definitely getting better with each game. We're doing it at the fight time." 
The Irish, who blanked the Mountaineers 5-0. continued just where they left off during the regular season. 
"I think the team as a whole stepped it up the last couple of games," Gerardo said. "We're starting to play really well and we're starting to $el a lot better. Our confidence is definitely on the rise and I think that is going to help us coming into this weekend's games." 
The victory was clearly a team effort. Gerardo, Notre Dame's all­
us spreading it around a little Wnst Virginia was content
time leading scorer with 68 
bit and having a lot of differ­with stuffing the box and play­goals, had two scores for the ent people score goals for us." ing defense. 
Irish. while Streiffer, Shannon The Irish got off to a slow "It's hard to just defend andBoxx and Kerri Bakker each start. but Boxx put Notre defend and defend for 90 min·added a goal. 
Dame on the scoreboard first utes," Petrucelli said. "The"That's always been a trade­at 22:01 with what eventually whole first half they spent
mark of our team." head 
became the game-winner -a chasing us. While they kept us
coach Chris Petrucelli said. 
header off of Jen Grubb's free from scoring a lot of goals.
"We've always been a team kick. they had to chase us a lot andthat has had a lot of different The Irish were held score· that too~. its toll as the gameplayers that can score goals, a less for the remainder of the went on.
Kerri Bakker (15) celebrated the first goal of her collegiate career and Notre lot of different players that 
half, despite outshooting the

Dame celebrated a 5-1 win in the Big East championship quarterfinals. can hurt you. It's good to see 
Mountaineers 17-3. see BIG EAST I page 21 
• fOOTBAll 
• 

November will be critical month for 6-1 Notre Dame 
By JOEY CAVATO  still has concerns  about the  attitude.  
Associate Sports Editor  team's play that mean none of  "We all  see  the improve­ 
those  games  are  foregone  ment we  need to make  as  a  
Sounding a bit like his pre­ conclusions.  team, but the most encourag­ 
decessor Lou  Holtz,  Notre  "We  are  by  no  means  a  ing thing to  me  is really the  
Dame head coach Bob Davie  dominate defensive football  unselfishness the camaraderie  
was quick to point out where  team," Davie said.  and chemistry of this team,"  
his team needed improvement  "We're still in the building  Davie said.  
and  was even quicker to give  stages on defense, but I do see  Davie pointed to the touch­ 
a lot of credit to the remain·  light at the end of the tunnel.  down-saving tackle by Autry  
ing four opponents.  "We do have some  big play  Denson,  the  blocking  of  
"It's an exciting time head­ potential and you never know  receivers Bobby Brown and  
ing into November, certainly  where its coming from. I think  Malcolm Johnson and the one·  
with  us  being 6-1,"  Davie  we are improving.  step punting by Hunter Smith  
r  said. "There's an  awful lot at  "We haven't taken advan­ that robs him of some yards  
stake.  tage of opportunities quite  on his average.  
"It's also a challenging time  like we did on offense early in  Also. Davie said tri-captain  
because  you  look  at  that  the year," Davie added. "We  Mike  Rosenthal and other  
schedule over the next four  need  to  get  some  easier  seniors often stay after prac­ 
weeks  ...  three of the games  scores.  The last thing is th€  tice to  help younger team­ 
are on  the road," Davie con­ field position in the kicking  mates.get better.  
tinued. "I think we  play some  game or the big play in the  "Our chemistry is good and  
excellent teams over the next  kicking game for us instead of  our attitude is and continues  
- couple of weeks, particularly  against us."  to  be  one  that is unselfish,"  
four good offensive teams that  But there is  one  aspect of  Davie said. "A lot of times that  
I think are really strong."  the team  Davie is not con­ is easier said then done."  
While Boston College, Navy,  cerned with, one that does not  Davie also pointed to  the  
LSU  and  USC  may  have  show through in statistics and  healthy competition at nearly  
impressive offensive statistics  that the Bowl Championship  every position and how that  
they're combined record is a  Series ratings  -in which the  has elevated the play of the  
mediocre 17-16.  Irish jumped from 16 to 13­ entire team.  
- But despite how it looks on  do not take into account. The Observer/John Daily  
paper, Davie noted that he  That aspect is his team's  Bobby Brown had two catches for 73 yards, including a 66-yard touch­see DAVIE I page 22 down grab in last Saturday's win over Baylor.  
SPORTS ATA  •  at Boston College Saturday, 2 p.m. Big East Semifinals  ,.,.~  Big East Quarterfinals at St. John's Sunday, noon  ~  at Boston College Friday, 7 p.m.  



~ 
at Connecticut at Georgetown Friday, 12 p.m. @) Friday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 





