
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 107 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE D E AND SAINT MA 

English professor Erskine Peters dies at 49 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Don Sniegowski, director of under-from the English department but from was easily the principle faculty member Saint Mary's News Editor graduate studies, recalled Peters' across campus. in the English department dealing with desire to "He tried to all areas of African American litera­
A loss was dealt to increase cul­get us to think ture," Sniegowski said. the Notre Dame com­tural diversity more positive­Sniegowski also attributed an munity on March 9 in the curricu­'HE TRIED TO GET us TO THINK MORE ly and criti­increase in faculty members specializ­when the man who lum. cally about ing in Afro-American studies and liter­
POSITIVELY AND CRITICALLY ABOUT 
helped to nncourage "One of the cultural ature to Peters influence. 
things 1 CULTURAL DIVERSITY WITHIN THE CLASs­
culture diversity in diversity "The fact that there are now extra the University's cur­r e m e m b e r ROOM.' within the faculty members here is part of his riculum as well as most about classroom," doing. He made us more aware of cul­
DoN SNIEGOWSKI
Notre Dame's first him is that he Sniegowski tural diversity," Sniegowski said. specialist in African directed a Ford said. "He was a man of great professional­American literature Foundation summer institute on cultur­In addition to specializing in Faulkner ism. He was a scholar through and died. al diversity in the curriculum for Notre studies, Peters was also a scholar of through. He also had a great deal of 
Erskine l'etf)rs, 49, was a professor of Dame faculty. It dealt with how to American literature to 1930, Afro­commitment to the African American English and member of the Notre Dame introduce cultural diversity into the American literature, 18th century community as well as the Notre Dame faculty since 1987. lie died of pneumo­classroom," Sniegowski said. British literature and Afro-poetics. community," Sniegowski added. nia in his hometown of Augusta, Ga., He added that through the institute, "From the time he became a faculty after becoming ill in South Bend. Peters met with professors not just member here until last semester, he 
see PETERS I page 4 


McDOWELL MISSION 


otre Dame students and alumni traveled to the Appalachian region on a variety of Spring Break 
Service Seminars. One of theses places was the McDowell mission in Gary, West Virginia. 


see Irish Focus, pages 12-13 John Heasly and Mary Clark work on the mission's damaged wharehouse. 

The Observer/John Daily 

13ridget's offe:nders tace court se:ntencing 
By ALEX ORR News Writer 

On March 6, while many students were preparing for a week of relaxation at points tropical, 165 of the University's underage drinkers were feeling the ramifications of their police capture at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station on Jan. 30. 
Most students avoided the rigors of an actual trial by declar­ing their guilt and opting for a "pretrial diversion agreement." Through this agreement, guilty parties could avoid the harsh­er. penalties of court trial and also maintain a relatively clean criminal record, bearing only the stigma of a "dismissed" case for their efforts. 
Pretrial diversion is, according to Rita Glenn at the St. Joseph County Court House, "basically a program for first time offender. If they do their community service, pay their fines, and have complied with the program, the charges will be dismissed. Their records will show that they were on the program, but that the case was dismissed without pleading guilty or a conviction." 
But the diversion was by no means a painless process, nor a mere slap on the wrist. The divertees showed up at the court house at 8 a.m. on Fridav, and stood in a line that, with its inelusion of traffic violati~n cases, at times extended out the door of the court house. 
They were then processed in groups of 12, brought before an officer and delivered what was, on the whole, the same punishment, varying in severity only if the use of a fake dri­ver's license was involved. 
By 1 p.m., the last of the students emerged from the court house. They left saddled with a one-time $52 fee, a monthly 
see BRIDGET'S I page 4 

ND celebrates with St. Patrick's Day festivities 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
Notre DamP students can look forward today to enltic fiddlers. a bagpipe band, a multi-talented Irish musician. thn blarney stone and an all-ages dance party at Alumni-Senior Club in celebration of St. Patrick's Day. 
The day's festivities begin with free events planned by Student Activities. At noon in the Huddle area of LaFortune Student Center, Tom Dahill will perform traditional Irish music on the fiddle. button, accordion and guitar. Dahill, who has performed at the Winnipeg Folk Festival, Gaelic Park and Indiana University, Northwest's coffee house, boasts a reper­toire of more than 1000 traditional songs. He will play until 2 p.m. 
From 4 until 7 p.m. the Math Club will bring the Blarney stone out into the Huddle area for students to kiss. 
Then, at 7:30 p.m. at the State Theatre on S. Michigan Street in South Bend, the Notre Dame Bagpipe Band will open a Celtic Fiddle Festival. 
"We are really excited," said Daniel Murphy, the leader of the band. "This is a premier opportunity for us." 
The Bagpipe Band will play for 10 or 15 minutes before the festival. They will also play during the intermission. 
The main act in the festival will be the three celtic fiddlers, Kevin Burke, Christian Lemaltre and Johnny Cunningham. 
"These guys have sold out 14 of 16 shows across the country," said John Kennedy, of I'll Learn to Fly Productions, which is sponsoring the festival. "Shows in Washington D.C., Dartmouth, New York, San,rrancisco, major cities have sold out for this act. 
From 9 p.m. until 1 a.m. Student Activities will fin­ish off the evening with an all-ages, alcohol-free dance party in the Alumni·Senior Club. There will be a pool tournament, a leprechaun look-alike con­test and dart contests. Admission is free and open to every member of the Notre Dame community. · 
Tickets for the celtic fiddle festival can be bought at the LaFortune Information desk or at the door of the State Theatre. They cost $16 in advance, $18 at the door and $14 for students and seniors. 
page 2 
• INSIDE ColUMN 
The truth 

about St. Patrick's Day 

HAPPY ST. Nora Regina Meany PATHICK'S DAY! Do Saint Mary's Writer you know what that means'? Okay, barring the obvious ... Do you know tiHl ABC's of this popular ethnic holiday? I low is St. Patrkk's Day celebrated di!Terently in America than in the Emerald Isle'? Who began the popular parade tradition'! More importantly, who the hell is St. Patrick? 
Well. let's tackle the last question first, bdiml we separate traditions of diiTerent countries. Now, I could give you a long and detailtld explanation of the works of St. Patriek. However, it's really not that interest­ing and would be quite a challenge to jam that into the space of an inside column. Basically, Paddy is known for two big historical accom­plishmcnb. 
Firstly, he is credited as one of the religious forefathers of Irnland, bringing Christianity to the country. As a chain reaetion. through the monasteries that they set up, the Irish brought widespread Christianity to the rest of the world. 
Next, as legends go, St. Patrick was the man to drive all of the snakes out of the country. Now, I made the mistake of questioning how snakes could have ever survived in such harsh, damp and cold vegetation at all, and I got my head bitten off by Irish friends. So, the one lesson I learned was to never question Irish tradition. 
But how do you celebrate the holiday like a true Irishman'? Woah there, Seamus, put down that pint of Guinness! Contrary to popular bnlief, St. Patrick's Day is not traditionally known as a party day across the pond. In actu­ality, March 17th is a national holiday in the country, but it is a day of rest. St. Patrick's Day traditionally falls around Mother's Day in the country, so it is another opportunity to spend time with one's family. It is one of the only times in the year when the pubs arc brimming with little children! 
Don't get me wrong ... I don't mean to imply that the people of Ireland arnn't drinking today. When do they not drink? I lowever, St. Patrick's Day is not like a "spring break" for the entirn country. 
There is a debate between my Irish friends over the origin of the parade -whether that was in Ireland or New York. Some maintain that the parade began in Ireland, and the idea was then exported to New York (possibly through Boston?}. Others stand by the claim that the Irish would have never given the thought of such a pointless exercise as having a bunch of bands, celebrities and floats march­ing in a straight line. And if this ever did hap­pen, the citizPns of Ireland would never will­ingly stand in thn cold for hours watching it. 
However. after reading the Aer Lingus mag­azine during the flight, I have eome up with my own hypothesis over the birth of the paradn. The "modern" St. Patrick's Day parade, with the marching bands, the free candy being thrown from floal'i, and the loud musie being piped in from bad sound systems is definitdy an American thing. Aside from that, does anything else happnn. 
Oh. and here is a little fun fact that you can wow your friends with when you are out eele­brating tonight. Chicagoans can attest to the ugliness seen with the dyeing of the Chicago Hiver to a Kelly green every year. But, for the first time, Disney is giving the people of Dublin 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAV's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Melissa Weber  
Colleen McCarthy  Production  
Anne Hosinski  Ka[hleen Lopez  
Spons  Lab Tech  
Bill Hare  Pa[ Quigley  
Shannon Ryan  
Viewpoint  
Spencer Stefko  
WednesdayQ, 51 39 Thursday c 49 36 


The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of lhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 

Police investigate student's death as possible homicide 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Harvard junior David Okrent, a physics coneentrator in Cabot House, was found stabbed Sunday morning on Revere Beach in Boston. 
Okrent, a native of Evanston, III., was pronounced dead on arrival at Massaehusetts General Hospital short­ly after 6:30a.m. He was 20. 
According to the Suffolk County District Attorney's oflice, a man walk­ing his dog found Okrent, who had a single stab wound to the neck. Officials said Okrent was still alive when authorities arrived on the scene. 
According to several Cabot House residents, students were told at an informational meeting last night that Okrent had been present at Saturday's "Cabot Underground" dance and was last seen at 1:30 a.m. Any students who saw Okrent after that time are instructed to contact police. 
Okrent's death is being investigated 
• MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOlOGY 
Police think death may be suicide 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Philip Gale, a 19 year-old MIT undergraduate, appar­
ently jumped out of a 15th floor window of an MIT science 
building shortly after 7:30p.m. last Friday. Gale was pro­
nounced dead on arrival at Massachusetts General 
Hospital at 8:05 p.m. According to Robert Sales, assistant 
director of the MIT news oflice, MIT police consider the 
incident an apparent suicide. "The case will stay open 
until the medical examiner signs the death certificate," 
Sales said. "I don't imagine there is much more to investi­
gate." Gale is thought to have thrown a chair through the 
thick plate glass window of the green building before he 
supposedly jumped. Students in east eampus dormitory 
across from the green building heard the breaking glass. 
"I heard the glass break, but people had been smashing 
glass bottles for a couple of days so I didn't think anything 
of it," said Brian Sniffen, an MIT sophomore. "Right after 
that I heard the crash of something hitting the ground," 
said Sniffen. 

• DUKE UNIVERSITY 
Minor claims rape at frat party 
DURHAM, N.C. 
A 16-year-old girl who was visiting a female university student alleged that she was raped March 7 at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity section while attending a mixer between SAE and the Pi Beta Phi sorority. Capt. Charles Nordan of the Duke University Police Department said an investigation is in progress. As a result, no charges have yet been filed. During the mixer, Nordan said, the victim reportedly eonsumed about five cans of beer and some vodka between 10:30 p.m. and midnight. At about mid­night, the victim and a male individual at the function struck up a conversation. The victim reported to police that she remembers very little between the time the two began their conversation and when she awoke the fol­lowing morning. The female student whom the victim was visiting also spoke with police. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAliFORNIA-BERKElEY 
Prof caught in credit card scam 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
A former visiting professor at the Lawrence Berkeley 
National Laboratory was arrested Wednesday following a 
six-month investigation by police into his role in a crndit 
card scam that cheated university faculty. Randy Baadhio. 
32, obtained a number of faculty credit cards under false 
pretenses, and in an elaborate scheme, bilked banks and 
credit card companies of nearly $200,000 over a two-year 
period, UC police said. Baadhio was chargtld Wednesday 
with 26 counts of forgery, grand theft and cheek fraud. lie 
is currently held in Santa Rita .Jail in Dublin on $140,000 
bail. According to university police, Baadhio would pose as 
an LBNL oflicial in an attempt to gain aecess to laboratory 
credit eard accounts. Two of the oflicials Baadhio allegedly 
defrauded were laboratory director Charles Shank and 
Piermaria Oddone, the deputy director for research. 
During a five-year stay at LBNL from 1991-96, where 
Baadhio began as a visiting scholar in the laboratory's 
physics division. 

• UNIVERSITY OF FlORIDA 
Spinal meningitis takes student's life 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Phillip Butler had his life planned out-from the song 
that would play at his wedding to his first son's name to 
what he would do in the world of publie administration. 
But while visiting his Tampa home for spring break, the 
24-year-old public affairs administration master's stu­
dent died unexpectedly of spinal bacterial meningitis. 
Butler, who had started putting the 11nal touches on the 
outline of his thesis project, left Gainesville the first 
weekend of spring break showing no signs of illness, 
roommate and UF sophomore Hache) Gliekman said. On 
Monday, Butler started showing flu-like symptoms that 
developed into a coma by Wednesday night. At around 6 
a.m. Thursday, Butler died in St. .Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Glickman said. llis family held a memorial ser­vice in Tampa on Saturday. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<~~>forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 17. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
..~_"' __ /~.:.:......................................-# 
H L 
I 

Tuesday c 44 29 
''''' 

' ' ' ' ' ·"i'~~k?.'f" . 

Friday q_, 43 32 
COLD WARM STATIONARY

' ? 
C 1998 AccuWealher, Inc. 

Prt15SUTIJ


Saturday "..~ 44 34 
H L B &Sf [!]] 0 . ~ 8 {) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT, CLOUDY CLOUDY
()V\1"'"-,..-f"•.,,,.; . 
Vt. Anocl•ted Prsss

.,, 
Albany 41 17 Fargo 31 23 Phoenix 72 48 Atlanta 64 48 Honolulu 82 68 St. Louis 37 33
4-~-~9.'6.}8~ ~u Boston 39 32 Las Vegas 76 52 Tampa 78 61 
Showers T-storms Rain Flum·es Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Charlotte 55 43 Milwaukee 33 28 Topeka 42 35 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

Dallas 62 51 Nashville 54 45 Wichita 42 34 

Bourgesanie did not rule out the possibility of suicide, saying Okrent's wound could have been self-inflicted. 
Harvard spokesperson Alex Hupp said the Harvard University Police Department is assisting in the investi­gation. 
Autopsy results are still pending and are expected to be released today. 
Janice and James Ware, masters of Cabot House, held an informal meet­ing in their residence last night for Okrent's dose friends. James Ware said more than 50 students eame to express their feelings of grief and loss. 
The Wares told students last night that Okrent's roommates will be flying to Chicago today to visit his family and attend funeral services, which are ten­tatively planned for Wednesday. 
Lawrence Okrent, David's father, said the family learned of their son's death early yesterday morning. 
"I was sitting at the breakfast table when somebody from some sort of Massachusetts organ donor organiza­tion called," he said. The call came between 8 and 9 a.m. The caller asked Okrent if he would like to con­tribute his son's organs, but hung up when he realized that the father had not yet learned the news of his son's death. 
Tuesday, March 17, 199 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Malloy addresses Keough Hall 
By TIM LOGAN News Writer 
University President Father Edward Malloy addressed a wide rango of topics last night in an informal discussion with resi­donts of Keough II all. 
Malloy discussed the challenge posed in maintaining Notre Dame's Catholic character, the University's efforts to increase financial aid availability and sev­eral residential life issues. 
"Wo're becoming a greater uni­versity each year. our greatest challenge is to sustain that improvement and to still take our religious eharacter seriously," said Malloy. 
lie pointod to the school's unique position as a way in which this challenge can be met. 
"1 don't think there's any other Catholic university in the world that has the stuff. that has the rosourees, acadomic excellence and alumni support, to be a great university and to sustain what it takos to be a great Catholic uni­vmsity," he stated. 
But keeping Notre Dame in that position, Malloy noted, will take 
The Observer/Liz Lang 
attention and is important to its 
University President Father Edward Malloy spoke to the residents of
unique identity. 
Keough Hall last night on topics such as financial aid, residence life
"If we lose our Catholic nature, 
and the Catholic character of Notre Dame. 
our hallmark will erode and Notre Dame will become just another nice school in this year.' Our expansion flows out of listening the Midwest." he warned. to various constituents," Malloy said. 
Pointing to the increased difficulties in paying Malloy was also asked about the possibility of for college, Malloy said that providing financial co-ed dormitories at Notre Dame, and the aid to students has become "our number one apparent exodus of seniors to off-campus hous­
priority," in terms of endowment use. ing. 
"!Increasing aidl is our single greatest need," "There has never been sufficient support and as a result, in a "dramatic change," the across the student population [to change the sin­Board of Trustees has recently increased the gle-sex residence system]," Malloy said. "Co-res­payout from the University's endowment for idence has advantages and disadvantages. It has such purposns. he said. less to do with sexual morality and more to do 
In a question and answer session, Malloy was with tradition." asked about rapid expansion of Notre Damn's Malloy observed that despite appearances, the physical plant and future building plans. He "hordes" of students leaving campus in recent 
noted that several projects were still underway, years are nothing new. and a npw performing arts center would be built "People have always moved off," he said. "We in the coming years. along with a science teach­try to make on-campus housing a more attrac­ing facility and expansion of Notre Dame's build­tive option, and I assure you that [the present] ings in London and Dublin. off-campus apartments will become more 
"I don't sit around and say 'what can we build decrepit year after year." 

Advisors from every Major, Concentration, Area Studies Program and more (ALPP, Pre-Law, Career & Placement....) will be present to provide 
information and answer questions for students 
interested in the Arts & Letters curriculum 
thell' :od1~S'iif.c:orililUt•ti:•. Tfiis book, ·one.of the vU<~1U,11!'>1~"! Of OUt times," Said 
member. ofthe Notre Dame 1984,.Murphy spe­studying how ethics rnarkc;;ting decision in both business and oq~anJZauor.1s. He also especially orre!lrul<!tOl agen­mar-

With Love, Mom, Dad, and John 

One D(IY 
Table TeJ~nis 


Tournaa1ent 
Saturday, Marc~h 2l. 1998 
J J :OOam-6:00pm Rolfs Sports Recr1eation Center 
RegJ;ster in Advance crt RecSports 
Deadline for RegisterJng is Thursday, March J9, at 6:00pm 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, March 17, 1998 


Lawmakers question CIA role in drug trafficking 
Associated Press of its report on whether the CIA urban America in the 1980s. later wrote a column that cri­McDonald, D-Calif'., who mpre­colluded with allies of Allegations of CIA links to drug tiqued the series, saying it "did sents some of the poornr areas WASIIINGTON Nicaraguan Contras to raise dealers surfaced in an not meet our standards" in key of Los Angeles. The information CIA findings that its agents money by bringing crack August1996 series published by areas. Among other things, in the report, she said, shows had no role in bringing crack cocaine into the United States in the San Jose Mercury News Ceppos said the series often pre­that "the CIA turned a blind eye cocaine into tlw United States the 1980s. which concluded that a San sented only one interpretation of at best to Contra drug activities." mnt with serious contention CIA Inspector General Francisco Bay area drug ring complex evidence, oversimpli­Waters, who rnpresents South Monday from I louse lawmakers Frederick Hitz, repeating the sold cocaine in Los Angeles and fied the spread of crack and Central Los Angeles and has who qtwstioned the agency's conclusions of the report, funneled profits to the Contra used graphics and language been the leader in pursuing ability to investigate itself. stressed that the 18-month rebels for the better part of a "that were open to misinterpre­alleged CIA links to drug deal­
"In my informed opinion. the investigation found no evidence decade. tation." ing, blasted the llitz report, eit­CIA inspector general report and of any conspiracy by CIA agents The newspaper series also The articles were followed by ing exhmsivn findings from her t.lw investigation lack credibility, or assets to bring drugs into the reported that two Nicaragutan a storm of protests in urban own inquiry of connections and il'i conclusions must be dis­United States. cocaine dealers, Oscar Danilo areas such as South Central Los between the CIA-backed Contras missed," said Hep. Maxine lie added that he had uncov­Blandon and Norwin Meneses, Angeles, with citizens demand­and the now of drugs. Waters, D-Calif., at a hearing of ered no information that the CIA were civilian leaders of an anti­ing answers as to whether their "This report's sweeping dnnial the I lousn Select Committee on in any way hindered the arrests communist commando group communities had been ravaged of the CIA's knowledge of drug Intelligence. or convictions of drug traffick­formed and run by the CIA dur­by drugs to help pay for a for­trafficking related to tlH~ Contras 
The hearing was the first since ers, including several with ing the 1980s. eign policy goal. defies the evidence and the logic the CIA inspector general on Contra connections, who helped The executive editor of the "The public remains skepti­that the CIA should have .January 2R issund the first part start the crack epidemic in Mercury News, Jerry Ceppos, cal," said Juanita Millender-known." 

Undergrads + Graduate Students 
+ 
Fulfill ageneral education requirement 

+ 
Accelemte progress towards your de!,'fee or minor 


+ 
Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments Courses in Physics, Economics, Chemistry, Enginneering, BioiOh'Y· Music, Com­


puter Science, History, Art, Classics, Athletics, Accounting, Psychol()!,'Y, Political Science, Anthropology and Communication. Spend asummer in sunny CA. 
For aFREE catalogue, send your:
Stanford Summer Session Building 590, Room 103 Name--------­Stanford, CA 94305-3005 
Address --------­
(650) 723·3109 

City, ST --------­
(650) 725-4248 Fax 
ZIP 

NW~11------------------­
Email: summcr.&.-ssion<1rsranford.edu 

(ircle: Undergrad Gmd
Web: ~~<ww.stanford.edu/summer.session 

Ll1/in Amcrican!Norrh American Church Concern.\, and rhe Detwrlmenl of Theology 
~i;:~:.:~~?-~7::':)\i 
I : 

"If rher kill""'· ill'ill ri.><• axai11 i11 rhe Salradcmm t>eople... M\' ""'"' 1.1 rhar mr blood will be like! a seed c~f liberty." Archbishop Oscar Romcw 
1998 Archbishop Romero Lecture 
Anna Peterson 
University of Florida 
Progressive Catholicism in El Salvador: During the Civil War and Today 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
8:00 p.m. Auditorium, Hesburgh Center for International Studies 

Political fundraiser pleads gulity 
designed to allow prosecutors  sentence usually is determined  
LOS ANGELES Democratic fundratser Johnny Chung, who has agreed to help prosecutors probing campaign finance abuses, pleaded guilty Monday  to continue questioning Chung and to perhaps to call him before a grand jury or other . investigative body in connec­tion with the campaign finance scandaL "Thank God, this is a new  by how much useful informa­tion the defendant provides. The charges against Chung were substantially lower than those he could have faced given the extent or his contri­butions to Democratic c:auscs.  
to charges of funneling $20,000 in illegal contributions  beginning of my life," Chung said later outside court. "I  lie actually donated some $400,000 to Democratic causes  
to the Clinton-Gore re-election bid. Chung also pleaded guilty to charges involving an $8,000 donatiqn to the campaign of Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., tax evasion and fraudulently obtaining a $157,500 loan on his home. Chung, 43. stood before lJ.S. District Judge Manuel Real and answered "Yes" repeated­.ly when asked if he was plead• ing guilty because he was indeed guilty. · The judge~ scheduleli sen­tencing for July 20 at the  want to put all of this behind me as quickly as possible so my family and I can get on with our lives." His lawyer said Chung would cooperate in the investigation, and if asked to detail the o per­ations of the Democratic National Committee, he would provide whatever information he could in that regard. The judge stressed that he was not promising Chung any specific sentence and that the plea agreement did not require him to grant leniency. Chung said he understood.  and candidates lwtween 1994 and 1996. A Taiwan-born U.S. citizen, Chtmg was the fourth person charged in the campaign finance scandal but the first to agree to eooperate with inves­tigators in an ctl'ort to avoid a lengthy prison sentence. In recent years Chung was a frequent visitor to the White House. Once he escorted Chinese businessmen who wanted to watch President Clinton deliver a radio address. He has said that in 1995 he  
request of defense attorney Brian Sun, .who cited sections of the plea agreement Which remained sealed. The delay in sentencing was  Chung could face 37 years in prison and $1.45 million in fines, but plea bargains usually involve a request for substan­tially reduced penalties. The  was solicited for money by a White House staffer and deliv­ered a $50,000 check to first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton's office.  


Bridget's 
continued from page 1 
fen to be paid in fivn install­ments of $22, $50 court costs, and requisite community scr­vke of 20 to 30 hours at one of four local charitable institu­tions. 
A freshman who was in court that day said of thn proePss, "I think that tlw prntrial diversion is a good program. but to charge $200 from each student ... It S!)!~ms likn tlwy arn simply out to make monny. I havP to pay tlwm so I ran do communi­ty snrvicn." 
Anothnr student, a junior, 

was similarly critical of the fees and community service. 
"I thought the punishment was way too severe for what it was we did. After all. I'm just a college kid in a college bar in an otherwise worthless and boring town. It's frustrating," he noted. 
A local police officer sympa­thized with the students when he said, "I did the same [stufO when I was that age. The only di l'ference was that I didn't get caught." 
For thoS!) who were caught, the ramifications will be felt until Aug. 15 of this year, when the last of the money is due, the community service is fin­ished, and their debt to society is finally repaid. 

Peters 
continued from page 1 
l'ntnrs, who graduated from l'airw Colh~g(~ in 1969, earned his doctorate in English from Princeton University in 1976. Additionally. he was a faculty mom her at University of California at Berkeley for 11 years where he served as chairperson of Afro-American Studies and assistant dean of the College of Letters and Science. 
Funeral services for Peters were held March 13 at the Hock of Ages CME Church in Augusta. Memorial contribu­tions can be made to Paine College, 15th Street, Augusta Ga.. 30901. 

Tuesday, March 17, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORU~ NEWS BRIEFS 
Palestinians warn Jewish settlers to stop attacks 
IIEBHON. West Bank 

Tlw Palestinian security chief in thfl West Bank warned .Jnwish snttlr,rs Monday that they would "not leave alive" if they tried to attack n~sidents of llr,bron 's Palestinian-run an~as again. Col. .Jibril Hajoub also said that lw was suspcnding security cooperation with Israeli troops in !Iebron. one of the hot spots in the West Bank and th11 scene of daily clash­(~S in the past wnnk. H.ajoub was responding to an incidPnt Friday in which about 30 Jewish snttlnrs stormed Abu Sneineh neighborhood in tlw Palr,stinian-controlled arfla of town. stoned an Arab hmn11 and smashed the windshields of Arab-owned cars. Thn sr,ttlers were then stoned by Palestinians. Israeli troops fired rubbPr buliPts on the Palestinians, and two journalists were injured. 
Official defends nicotine levels in cigarettes 
ST. PAUL, Minn. 

Tlw lwad of leaf blending for the country's third-largest cigarntte maker denied Monday that his company was trying to hook more smokers when it created a high-nicotine cig­arette. In vidPotaped testimony played Monday, Hoger Black of Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp. said the Y-1 project was con­r.eivf~d in the 1980s to reduce tar, not increase nicotine. "I do not like the word manipulation. but I would agree that defi­nitely our original intention with Y-1 in ciga­rettes was to use it to alter the tar-and-nico­tine ratio," Black said in a deposition taken Jan. 16. "We were looking at it as more of a tar reduction tool." Brown & Williamson developed Y-1 -an engineered tobacco that packs about twice as much nicotine as ordi­nary tobacco. 
Judge withdraws federal nomination 
PHILADELPHIA 

In a quavering but composed voice, a judge accused of being soft on crime with­drew Monday from her long fight to become the first black woman "to sit on the federal bench in Philadelphia. "I have been a fighter ... all my life, but allowing still more and more selective. one-sided and unsubstantiat­ed charges to go unanswered in this politi­cized environment is not acceptable to me artnr my long journey," Frederica Massiah­Jackson said at a news conference, reading from hnr withdrawal letter to President Clinton. Prosecutors and Senate Hepublicans wnrn strongly opposed to her nomination, finding that she was "soft on crime" when slw heard criminal cases as a Philadelphia Court of Common Pleas judge. 

S&P 500: Composite 
1079.27 Volume: 
+10.68 683,569,100

+116.33 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
COMPANY TICKER "j,CIJ.\J{jl S GAIN PBICF 
NYMOX PIIARMCE NYMXF 108.16 6.630 12.75 ASTEA I:'~HERNA'fiONAL ATEA 79.49 1.930 4.38 '"'Pl.IEn M1CROSYSTEM I'MC 47.31 2.750 8.56 R1VERS1DF. GROUP RSGI 45.46 0.625 2.00 ()ltiENE COR I' OIGE. 4:U45 3.120 10.25 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
1\iORLNO ~EOIC,\L.  ;-.<RLO  :\0.97  2.180  4.87  
MORROW .SNOW BOARD  \.-1RRW  30.56  0.6RO  L56  
NETWORK CONNECT  TNCX  18.61  1.000  U7  
ll)Mf.(;A CORP  10M  17..19  1.500  7.12  
US AUTOMOTIVE  USAM  16.67  0.400  2.03  






Northern Ireland continuc:~s talks 

AssoCIATED PREss 

WASHINGTON 
The Clinton administration urged pivotal figures in the Northern Ireland peace process to use their St. Patrick's Day visits to Washington to nudge the process forward. 
"This is a time in which they need to look beyond short-term calculations, they need to sort of lift themselves out of the weeds of the specific narrow issues that they're trying to resolve and look at the brighter future that's available to them," said James Steinberg, deputy national security adviser. 
He spoke Monday as officials and negotiators in the talks made the rounds on Capitol Hill, and as Clinton prepared for an evening Oval Office meeting with Gerry Adams, leader of the Sinn Fein party, and his chief negotiator, Martin McGuinness. Sinn Fein is a legal political party allied with the outlawed Irish Hepublican Army. 
Most of the leading figures in the peace process are in Washington for St. Patrick's Day receptions at the White House and in the Capitol on Tuesday. 
"Any time that you have a chance to bring some focus to am issue, it's valu­able," said Sen. Edward Kennedy. "This is sort of the time for the type of exchanges that we hope will continue to take place." 
At the same time, Kennedy said, "I think all of us understand here in the United States, this is :going to be some­thing that's going to be decided by the people at that negotiating table ... But we obviously have a eontinuing histor­ical interest, and many of us have per­sonal interests as well." 
David Trimble, leader of the Northern Ireland's major Protestant party, the Ulster Unionists, said dur­ing a picture-taking session with Kennedy that the "few days that we're spending here ... gives us an opportu­nity to pause and to reflect" before entering a period of intensive talks 
Vatican·"Holoc 
MSoctAteo··PRI!Ss 
VA-TICAN CITY 
In a long-awaited dqcu­ment that Jewish leaders immediately crjticized. the Vatican expressed relJlorse Monday for the cowardice of some Christians during the Hol{}caust but defeqded the actions of the wartime pope. 
The Vaticant~ versigi) of.. the .Roman·· Catholic Church's role during World War rp. coming in a s~ate· ment promised by Pope John Paul II a decade ago, singledout Pope Pius Xll for praise as a wi~e diplomat. He long has been criticized nerstone for failing t!) speak out expressed forcefully against Nazt.per· ·document secution; · to heal the '""'"''i" 
"It is too little, too late," misund Meir Lau, Jsrael's chief injustices." 
Trimble has said that Sinn Fein should be permanently barred from the negotiations. 
Clinton, meanwhile, was prepared to tell Adams and the ·other key figures that "the moment is now," said his spokesman, Mike McCurry. 
The peace talks, which began in June 1996, are supposed to conclude in May, with what negotiators hope will be a compromise on governing Northern Ireland that is acceptable to both its Protestant majority and the large Catholic minority. 
McCurry called it "a very critical moment in the Northern Ireland peace process, and one in which the eoinci­dence of St. Patrick's Day and the meeting of all the party leaders here provides the president with, I think, an important opportunity to help the parties, and the government of the United Kingdom and the Hepublic of Ireland, to move the work forward." 
Steinberg, the deputy national secu­
see TALKS I page 6 
$()ns I;I:J1<i daughters of the 
chur~ht"•·· 

··"We cannot know bow many Christians in coun­tries· occupied or ruled, by the Nazi powers or their allitls were horrified at the .. disJtpp~aran~e of their .Jewisn•neighbors and yet we.re not st:ong e~ough ~o ... , )'au;.~. JheltCi•i.•iVOlCEls...•tn :w protest," the document said. Without naming names, it . ,took to task. "governnHmts ·• <rofsome Western. countries of Christian traditiQn. i~cludings?me in. North and South America"· for being "more than hesitant to. open their borders to the perse­
~\lted Jews.~ 
·· · The document is ''more 
tiJan an apology; We feel we need··tq repent.;.. for those members of our church who failed" to do enough, CasHidy said. 

Tuesday, March 17, 1998page 6 The Observer • NEWS 
Also making the rounds on •INDONESIA Capitol Hill and expecting to go

Talks 
to the White House on Tuesday were Gary McMichael of the 

Indonesia's economy uncertain
continued from page 5 
Ulster Democratic Party, which 
-rity adviser, told reporters at a White Ilouse briefing, I think the president is going to make clear that the window to take advantage of this opportunity now is a n~latively short one, and that they've rt~ally got to put their full dl"orts behind the resumption of the talks that will start back again on Monday. 
is linked to Northern Ireland's biggest pro-British paramili­tary group; and John llume, leader of the Social Democratic and Labor Party, Sinn Fein's larger and more moderate rival for Catholic votes. 
Adams party hasn't rejoined the peace talks that are to con­vene again March 23 in Belfast. 
• VIRGINIA 
Women succeed at VMI 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON 

Angela Myers was coated with mud from her close-cropped hair to her combat boots and barely able to see as she reached tiH~ erest of a slippery hillside Monday. 
Staggering and gulping for air, the Virginia Military ~~stitute freshman, or "rat." squinted at the upperclassmen wmtmg for hfW and said in a soft voice to no one in particular: "I made it!'' 
Myers and 22 other women were the first females to endure the torturous seven-month initiation period at VMI. Six of the women who enrolled in August, ending VMI's158-year all-male tradition. quit during Uw year and a stwenth woman was sus­pended for two semesters for striking an upperclassman. 
Those who made it lived in spartan barracks under a harsh system of strict discipline dosignnd to test their physical, men­tal and emotional limits. VMI says the process breaks down incoming cadets and rebuilds them as model citizen soldiers. 
They faeed a linal rite of passage Monday. The day began shortly after midnight with a 15-mile forced march that lasted about four hours. 
Then eame breakout. -"It's the last hurrah, the last serious test," VMI Superintendent Josiah Bunting said. The idea was to make members of the first co·ed class reach the top of a 20-foot hillside. whieh is pure dirt that is hosed down with water so it is impossible to climb alone. 
When Miss Myers, a psychology major from Virginia Beach, was stuek in a rut halfway up the hill, a classmate pushed her from behind with his shoulder. Then she returned the favor for the classmate above her, and they made their way like tad· 
poles emerging from pond mud. 

It's a tradition that began in 1981. This year the weather-· 36 degrees and cloudy -made the climb more difficult. When the exhausted rats reached the summit, their teeth chattering from tho cold, they got a hand from the upperClassmen and congratulations for becoming full-fledged cadets. 
Ytilia Beltikova of Hussia needed no words to show her exu~ berance either, belting out something like a Southern rebel yell with a Russian accent: "Yeaaahoooo!" 
Although the freshmen's existence will remain forbidding and austere by most college standards. the breakout means thtlir treatment improves. 
Associated Press 
JAKAHTA 

President Suharto's new Cabinet took office Monday in a pillared hall as police and student protesters fought briefly on a university campus in the capital. 
The 36 ministers, who include the eldest daughter of the president as well as his old friends and business partners, must now tackle Indonesia's gravest economic crisis since the 1960s. 
Heading the agenda are the government's troubled ties with the International Monetary Fund. which suspended aid amid fears that Indonesia is not serious about economic reform. Hubert Neiss, the IMF's chief of Asian affairs, was expected to visit Jakarta on Tuesday. 
At the presidential palace, a Muslim clergyman held the Koran over the heads of the ministers as the 76-year-old Suharto swore them in. The only Christian, Labor Minister Then Sambuiiga, placed his hand on a Bible. 
Ten miles to tho south, police dubbed students at the private Universitas Nasional during a rally against the government and its inability to stem inflation and unemployment. 
At least 50 students raised a banner that read "Heform or death" and tried to march into the street, but a larger number of anti-riot police and soldiers with sticks and shields pummeled them briefly. 
The students retreated and threw stones at the 
officers. There were no reports of arrests. Last 
week, armed forces chief Gen. Wiranto, newly 
appointed as defense minister, warned that 
• EGYPT 

authorities would crack down on protesters who break the law. 
Several hundred students staged peacr.ful anti­government rallies Monday at two campuses in Surabaya, 400 miles east of Jakarta. 
Last week, students at more than a dozen cam­pusns in snvnral cities held noisy protests against the re-election of Suharto, who was awarded a seventh five-year term by a loyalist assmnbly. 
Under foreign pressure to reform the economy. Suharto hastiiy assembled a Cabinet paekml with allies that critics say is unlikely to push hard on reform . 
The IMF halted aid to the financially battmwl nation because of fears that Suharto is backslid­ing on austerity measures he promised to impll~­ment. So far, the IMF has handr.d over(, percent of a $43 billion rescue package. 
Indonesia is supposed to dump monopolies and other trade perks that have enridwd th1~ pn~si­dent, his family and associatr1s. 
At a news conference, the new trade ministt1r said he believnd monopolies can be good for the economy if they function in "the interest of th1~ people. 
The minister. Mohamad Hasan, is a eonlidant and golfing partner of Suharto and headed a ply­wood monopoly that was disrnantlod in line with the IMF bailout. lie is one of lndonnsia's richest men. 
The new social affairs minister is Siti Ilardiyanti Hukmana, Suharto's eldest daughter. A leader of the ruling Golkar party. she is tlw most politically active of Suharto's six millionaire children, all of whom hav11 built vast business empires under his patronage. 

Middle East battles '50-day wind' 
Associated Press 

CAIHO 
Hundreds of passengers were stranded Monday at the crowd­ed Cairo airport by a swirling sandstorm that grounded planes, forced the Suez Canal to close and is blamed for four deaths in the Middle East. 
The storm -described as the worst in Lebanon and the most severe in Jordan in 50 years ­lashed the region with gritty winds, even blowing down a Ferris wheel in Beirut that 15 years of civil war couldn't budge. 
The seasonal storm -known as the khamaseen. or 50-day wind -also hit Israel, Syria and Cyprus, reducing visibility to as little as 200 yards. 
By Monday night, four airports in Egypt and another in .Jordan had reopened. Some passengers at the Cairo airport had been stranded for 24 hours, with Egyptian air-traffic controllers diverting about 30 flights. 
The Suez Canal also rnop1med late Monday, with 41 ships wait­ing to sail through the passage­way. A canal spokesman said the storm had whipped up high waves on the normally placid thoroughfare. 
British Foreign Secretary Hobin Cook arrived in Cairo on Monday, 14 hours behind sched­ule. His jet was diverted to Cyprus on Sunday night and 1111 could not take on· Monday morn­ing because the storm by tlwn had enveloped Cyprus. 




~ 
~onda~ 
11-11:45 Tone the Zone Room I $8 
Tu~da~ 
2-3:00 ~tep Room I $10 ThurMia~ 2-3:00 Hllnten~lty Room I $10 


frlda~ 

11-11:45 Tone the Zone Room I $8 
304:15 ~tep/ ~culpt Room I $10 ~atunta1: 

9:30-10:30 Lo Impact Room I $10 10:45-11:45 Athletic CondHionlng Room I $10 11:50-12:15 Tone the Zone Room I $6 
4:15-5:15 ~·ep Room I $10 ~undal: 
12:30-1:30 t;tep Room I $10 4:30-5:15 Athletic Conditioning Room I $8 5:25-5:55 Tone the Zone Room I $6 6:05-6:50 Hllnten~ity Room I $10 ~onda~/ W~dn~~da~ 
2:15-3:15 Aero~tep Room I $12 
Iu~~da~/ThurMia~ 9:15-10:00 HI lnten~lty Room I $12 Athletic Conditioning -aimed at lncrea~lng cv endurance through the u~ of ~u~talned highOinten~lfy cv circuit~ in an athletically ~tructured environment. Tone the Zone-de~lgned to tone and ~culpt the mu~e group~ between the ~houlder~ and the knee~. Hand-weight~ and re~l~tance banlb will be utilized. 
~I(JNOUP~ Bf(iiN TUf~DAl', ~AilCH 1%, 8A~ AT llfC~POilT~ LOCATIO IN THf ll~llC. (ifT llfADl' fOil ~U~~fll! 
The William and Katherine Devers Proaram in Dante Studies 
in conjunction with the Medieval Institute 
presents: 
DANTE IN FLORENCE: A Reading of the Vita Nuova 
Professor Zygmunt Baranski University of Reading (U.K.) 
This Eveninn ~ 4:45pm 
Department of Specia] ColJections 1 0 2 Hesburgh Library 
A reception will follow the lecture. All are welcome. 
For further information contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 The Observer· WASHINGTON NEW'S page 7 
Cohen changes basic training gender policies 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Defense Secretary William Cohen ordered the Army, Navy and Air Force to house male and female trainees in "separate areas, if not sepa­rate buildings" to cut down on improper activity. He also demanded tougher physical training. 
Cohen said Monday he would not require that men and women undergo separate basic training during their first weeks in the military, an idea the services had rejected. 
But housing -and the process of instilling military values -must be improved, he said. He complained that even though male and female trainees live in separate quar­ters or on separate floors, doors had been removed at some sites and privacy was inadequate. 
"They have not had ade­quate supervision ... There has been an attitude of a lack of discipline. And so what we want to do is maintain the separation during those first weeks of basic training to make sure their focus is on the military aspects and not the social," Cohen said. 
Queried about how increased separation might teach young men and women to work and fight together, Cohen shot back, "They don't have to sleep together." 
The secretary also told the three services to toughen their physical training and put more emphasis on "core mili­tary values" during their first weeks in the military. 
The services must increase the number of female re1~ruiters and female train­ers; improve selection processes for trainers and counter any notion that a training assignment would be detrimental to a military career, Cohen said. 
The services must also "develop a system of rewards and incentives" to make work­ing as a trainer more of a step to advancement in a military 
.Are vou lesbian! Gavl Blsexua/l Questioning! .Are vou a friend ofsomeone who lsl 
Please come to Campus Ministry's SECOND ANNUAL RETREAT for lesbian, gay, and bisexual undergraduate students and their friends. 
MARCH 20-21,1998 
* Explore vour gifts and the milestones In vour llfe 
* }v(eet netV people 

* Discuss !tow we are all called to follow Christ 

*Examine wavs to reach out to the Notre 2Jame/St. Marv' s communitv
(?MPUS 

* Student-led For more information or to
MINImY 

*Student talks register, please call * Conversation Kate: 1-5242 katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu *'Praver Mark: 4-1933 mark.f.massoud.l@nd.edu Alyssa: 4-3352 alyssa.Lhellrung.5@nd.edu 
career, the secretary said. 

The Marine Corps separates men and women during basic­training. The secretary lauded the Marines for emphasizing the "transformation" that is supposed to take place in turning a civilian into a mili­tary man or woman. 
Cohen's directives came in response to the December report by a panel headed by former Sen. Nancy Kassebaum Baker, R-Kan. It had recommended separating men and women in the most elemental units of training, as well as separate housing dur­ing both basic and advanced training. 
Meanwhile, a draft report by the General Accounting Office criticized the way in which the Kassebaum Baker report was conducted. It said that even though the panel held 300 focus groups and inter­views, it did not systematically collect the same information from all groups; document the information gathered; or explain how what was learned from the interviews led to the panel's conclusions. 
"Given these limitations, the extent to which the commit­tee's work supports its conclu­sions and recommendations cannot be determined," the draft report said. It was pre­pared for Rep. Martin Meehan, 0-Mass., and was made available to The Associated Press. 
The panel was one of sever­al that investigated training in the wake of the sexual abuse that occurred at the Army's advanced training base at Aberdeen, Md., where drill instructors had preyfjd on recruits. 

LOSION of club music and crazy lights!! 
Thurs. March 19 llpm-1:3Damtickets @ door $2 
_ __, Ballroom 

Free food!!! 






Ani Difr,mco ticket1 
~al1~t Lafortune Info de~k March 17 $15 ~tudent ID &faculty 1oam March 18 $18 general public @ qam Concert: April15 in ~tepan 8pm 
All-ages!! 

of Campus Bands Free food and CD's with admission Fri. March 20 8pm-2am @ Senior Bar -tickets @ door $2 


Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
pageS The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Fina you won't min 







eing car~--­
• 


N (JV\1 vvA.ervy(JVt vtsey(]V{t' Vist:t"ur.r.i, y(JVt'Ust:tve li:J t:tt-rkse plt:tus. 

Its everywhere you want to be~ 
© 1998 Vtsa U.S.A. Inc. 
-------------------.-------------------.-------------------.------------------­
Save 10°/o ~~ :!~~ce Save ~0 ~~;1n6:ru~~::.e Save 15°/o:~ ;:~hro~~~:e Save 15°/o ~~r~~~se 
at any Firestone Tire & Service Center. use your Visa• card and save s2on any purchase of StOor more at any Check it out! Fashion Bug now has anew junior shop in most of $75 or more at American Eagle Outfitters. 
Use your Visa• card and save 10% on the regular retail price of automotive participating Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory location. Enjoy the stores. Come in and save 15% on the coolest junior sportswear Use your Visa• card and s.ave 15% on any purchase of S7S or more at any one service or any Fir~tone or Bridgestone tires (including performance or intense flavor and generous portions of our nutty clusters, chewy when you pay with your Visa• card. Fashion Bug has over 1,100 of the more than BOAmerican Eagle Outf•tters stores nationwide. Get great pickup/ ~U.V. radials) at your nearest Firestone Tire & Service Center or caramel~ exotic truffles. and crisp butter-toffees. Choose from among stores nationwide. so check your local white pages for the store deals on fashions from our new colle<tion To redeem this special oiler. pre­particrpa!lng Affiliated Dealer. To redeem this special offer. mention code: avariety of gift baskets and boxed chocolates. perfect for any occa~on. nearest you. To redeem this special offer, present this Certificate at sent !his certificate to the cashier at time of purchase. Oiler valid PlOO M2481l for service and code: PlOO #24805 for tires. Offer valid For the participating store nearest you. calll-B00-344-9630 (8:00A.M.-time of purchase. Offer valid 1/t/9B-6/30/9B. 111/98-6/30198. 
1/1198-6/30198 5:00P.M. MST). To redeem this special offer, present this certificate to the Terms and Conditions: Certificate redemption is solely the Terms and Conditions: Certificate redemption issolely the responsibility Terms and Conditions: Certificate redemption is solely the responsibility cashier at lime of purchase. Offer valid 1/1/98-6/30198. responsibility of participating Fashion Bug locations. Offer valid of participating American Eagle Ourtitters locations Offer valid Januaty 1. of participating Firestone Tire & Service Centers. Offer valid January 1, 1998. January 1, 199B, through June 30, 199B. Good only for purchase of 1998. through June 30, 1998. Thiscertilicate may not be used in conjuction through June 30, 1998. Good only lonires or service indicated at com-Terms and Conditions: Certificate redemption is solely the responsibil-products indicated. Valid on regularly priced items only. Any other with any other certificate. discount. and /orspecial in-store offer(s). pany·owned Firestone Tire & Service Centers and participating Affiliated ity of participating Rocky Mountain Chocolate Factory locations. Offer use constitutes fraud. Cannot be combined with any other offer or Certificate is not valid towards previously purchased merchandise. "Buy-one· 
Dealers. Not valid with any other offer and cannot be valid January 1. 1998, through June 30. 1998. Any other use constitutes used as payment on your Fashion Bug charge. Offer excludes prior get-one-free· promotions, layaway, purchase of merchandise certificate. or used to reduce outstanding debt. Any other use consti-fraud. Void where prohibited. taxed. or restricted by law. Valid only when purchases, layaways, and gift certificates. Void where prohibited, redline merchandise. Any other use constitutes fraud. Void where prohibited. tutes fraud. Void where prohibited. taxed. or restricted you use your Visa card. Applicable taxes must be paid by bearer. Only taxed, or restricted by law. Valid only when you use your Visa card. taxed, orrestricted by law. Valid only when you use your Visa card and by law. Valid only when you use your Visa card and pre-redeemable in the U.S. Cash valuel/100 cent. Visa Applicable taxes must be patd by bearer Only redeemable tn the present th11 certrhcate Applicable taxes must be pard by bearer Only sent thllcertrficate Applicable taxes must be pard by ~ Rewards is aservrce mark of Vrsa lnternatronal U.S. Cash valuel/100 cent Vrsa Rewards rs a serviCe mark ofVtsa redeemablern the US.Cash valuel/100 cent Visa Rewards !Ia servrce mark bearer Only redeemable rn the US Cash valuel/100 Servrce Assocratlon C 1998 V~a U~A Inc International ServiCe Assocratron «:1199B Vtsa U.~A Inc of Visa International ServrceAssocrallon C 1998 Visa US A Inc cent Visa Rewards rs aservrce _ "IIJir cashier Key#: 775042005 Authorization Code#: 25 

~markoiVisalntematronaiServrce 1lr • ~ -~ ~'~'!Xi£,.,.( ,'R' 
Assoclatron e"a ; F'A ~HION BUG -~ "" " . ~ r'h
Y•reuone C1998VisaUSA Inc ~ 1\U • 0 "7T ~Aa ~ 
-------------------~-------------------~-------------------~------------------­

Tuesday, March 17, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 


JUNIORS DO IT NOW! 
Don't whine! Don't complain! Don't have your mothers call the Dome Office be:cause you didn't get your senior portrait taken! 
Do it! Do it NOW! 
Sign-up for an appointment from 10A.M.-6P.M. in La Fortune 108, Mon. March 16-Fri. March 20. 

•INDONESIA 

Protests mark new presidency 
Associated Press 
JAKARTA 

President Suharto's new Cabinet took office Monday in a pillared hall as police and student protesters fought briefly on a university campus in the capital. 
The 3(, ministers, who include the eldest daughter of the president as well as his old friends and business partners, must now tackle Indonesia's gravest economic crisis since the 1960s. 
Heading the agenda are the government's troubled ties with the International Monetary Fund, which sus­pended aid amid fears that Indonesia is not serious about economic reform. Hubert Neiss, the IMF's chief of Asian affairs, was expected to visit Jakarta on Tuesday. 
At the presidential palace, a Muslim clergyman held the Koran over the heads of the ministers as the 76-year-old Suharto swore them in. The only Christian, Labor Minister Theo Sambuaga, placed his hand on a Bible. 
Ten miles to the south, police clubbed students at the private Universitas Nasional during a rally against the gov­ernment and its inability to stem inflation and unemploy­ment. 
At least 50 students raised a 
banner that read uReform or 
death" and tried to march into the street, but a larger num­ber of anti-riot police and sol­diers with sticks and shields pummeled them briefly. 
The students retreated and threw stones at the officers.. There were no reports of arrests. Last week, armed forces chief Gen. Wiranto, newly appointed as defen;se minister, warned that authori· ties would crack down on pro­testers who break the law. 
Several hundred students staged peaceful anti-govern­ment rallies Monday al two campuses in Surabaya, 400 miles east of Jakarta. 
Last week, students at more than a dozen campuses in sev­eral cities held noisy protests against the re-election of Suharto, who was awarded a seventh five-year term by a loyalist assembly. 
Under foreign pressure t() reform the economy, Suh~o hastily assembled a Cabinet packed with allies that critic$ say is unlikely to push hard on reform. 
The IMF halted aid to the financially battered nation because of fears that Suharto is backsliding on austerity measures he promised to implement. So far, the IMF has handed over six percent 
of a $43 billion rescue package. 
Indonesia is supposed to dump monopolies andoth ·· trade perks that 7 enriched· the presiden family and associates. 

Baby doctor~, author dies at 94 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Dr. Benjamin Spock, who wrote the how-to guide for bringing up the baby boom generation, ..,----= then was branded the "father of permissive­ness" when those young· sters came of age during the turbulent 1960s, has died at 94. 
Spoek died Sunday at home in La Jolla of respiratory fail­ure. He had suffered a heart attack, a stroke and several bouts of pneumonia in recent years. 
No one has had a greater impact on child care in America. 
His first book, "Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care," was published in 1946 at the very start of the post­World War II baby boom and became the bible to millions of parents. 
In it, Spock encouraged par­ents to trust and respect themselves and listen to their children. For example, he told them it is better to feed babies when they want to eat instead of adhering to a strict feeding schedule. 
His seemingly simple advice was a revelation for many, and "Baby and Child Care," as it was called in later editions, went on to become the biggest-selling book in the United States after the Bible. It has been translated into 39 languages and sold nearly 50 million copies worldwide. 

"He was really the first per­son to talk about listening to children, which is such a catchphrase now," British psy­chologist Penelope Leach, author of the best-selling "Your Baby and Child," said from her London office. 
Arlene Eisenberg, who co­wrote the best-selling "What to Expect When You're Expeeting," said Spock was the first child-care expert who said to parents: "Trust your instincts. Do what you're com­fortable with. 
"He really made child care focus more on the needs of children rather than conve­niences of parents," she said. 
Some physicians criticized Spock's approach in the 1960s as excessively permissive, and critics said he was responsible for a "Spock-marked" genera­tion of hippies. 
Spock joined those youths in protests against nuclear tech­nology and the Vietnam War, even leading a march on the Pentagon in 1967. Vice Presldent Spiro Agnew accused him of corrupting the youth of America; Spock claimed only a "mild influ­ence." 
He argued, "What is the use of physicians like myself trying to help parents to bring up children healthy and happy, to have them killed in such num­bers for a cause that is igno­ble?" 
In 1968, Spock was convict­ed in Boston and sentenced to two years in prison for con­spiracy to aid, abet and coun­sel young men to avoid the draft. The verdict was reversed on appeal. 
He ran for president in 1972 as a candidate of the Peoples Party, getting more than 75,000 votes. 
Accusing Spack of prompting the youth rebellion was absurd, said Todd Gitlin, a New York University professor who wrote "The Sixties, Years of Hope, Days of Rage." 
"What is true is that the family patterns were chang­ing, partly but not strictly because of the popularity of his book," Gitlin said. 
Dr. Marvin Drellich, profes­sor of psychiatry at New York Medical College, said the radi­cal behavior of youth in that era "didn't emerge from Spock's teachings. It was far more a reflection of the social and political climate." 
The big-boned, 6-foot-4 Spoek said he never meant that children should be allowed to be uncooperative or impolite. He said his basic phi­losophy was this: "Respect children because they're human beings and they deserve respect, and they'll grow up to be better people." 
Born May 2, 1903, in New Haven, Conn., the oldest of six children, Spock attended Yale University, where he joined the erew team and helped win a gold medal at the 1924 Olympics. He earned his med­ical degree at Columbia Uni\'ersity and studied at the New York Psychoanalytic Institute. 
After working in private practice in New York City and teaching pediatrics at Cornell University, Spock spent two years as a psychiatrist in the 
U.S. Naval Reserve Medical Corps. 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Tuesday, March 17, 1998 

THE OBSERVER 
NmRt DAME O~FJCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's 0FI·ICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
ElJITOR-IN-CtiiH 
Hcarhcr Co(;k/1 
MANAGING Elll"fOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Brian Reinthalcr Kyle Carlin 
A'iSISTANT MANAGING El>ITOR 
HC',Lthcr MacKenzil' NEWS Eu1 nm . .. .........M.mhew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ....................•Kris Klein VJI·.WI'<liNT EDITOR ...................... Eddie J.luJI All DESIGN MANAGER ...........•... llretr Hudar Sr•oRT.\ Em ron. .............Kuhlecn Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER.. ..........Michael Brouillet A<TEN r l-:01 n>R~ ... . ..... Sarah Dylag WEll ADMINISTRATOR ....jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klirsch CONTROI.U:R.. .................. Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'~ EDITOR ............ShJnnon Ry:m PHoTo EmroR ........................Kevin D:1lum 
I"ILt" ( )h.,crvcr L)lthc Lndt·pcndc:L\1 Lll"W~p.lpl·r puhltshnl hy tht· MUdl"nt' tlf the Univcr~iry nfNntrt• I hmt• du I..K and ~.II Lit M.1ry'!t (:,,((cgc. It d11C.~ LUll nccc!>.~;arily reflect tht· ptllict(')l of thc J.JrnLni!>trJ.Lion of cither institution. '!"he news is f('poncd .•, -K~ur.udy .md oh)t'l.:tivdy J.), pmMhlc. UnsL~nt'l.t cdiwnal~ rcprt·scnt tlu· opinion of thc majority or tlu: 
l·.dnor-m~Cim{ M.m.tgmg Editor, A!>.\j_,t,mt M.m.t~ing F.ditnr, Nt-w' Ediwr, Vicwpnmt Fdiwr, Spons Editor, A,lCill hbttn,, \.1int M.try\ hlnor .md Photo Ediwr. ( :llllllnl"lll<tric!>, lcncr~ .111d column.~o prcscnt tht' view!> of rhe .mdwr,, .md nut nct.:t'llo.)o.lflly those of"Tiu.· {. )h:.ervcr." VLcwpointl>p.tn: illo avolilablc: to .til memhcr11 nf the Norre n.lmt"!S.IInl Mo~ry\ ~ummunuv .tnd to .dl rc:·,Jdcr!o. The free cxprc!o.,ion nf varying opiniom through letter!> is t'llCOllr­.lgt·ll. Th~· l lh\cf\'t'r rl'\l'rY<.'.\ til~ right to c~li1 all Htluni...:.inm h.!-'l'd un l."nntcm or space rc-!.tri~o:tium. 
Contacting The Observer 
l·~dittJr~in-Chicf C..~I-4542 llu.1i11m OH!ce 63I-53l.l M.mag~ng Edirm/A"I!It.mt ME C..li-4541 Advertising 6.1 I -6900/8840 Ncw..,/Phoro 6.l I -5323 Sy.1tem> 63 I-8839 Sporr., C..l I-45H l'.lX 63 I -6927 A(;cc-nr/S.aillt Marv'., !..l I-4540 Vi<wpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.edu l hy Fditor/Viewpoinr 6.li-5.lO.l Ad E-M.1il observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu ()fllcc M<~n;tgcrltiC"ner.lllnformarion (>.JI-747I N<w> E-Mail observer .obsnews.l @nd.edu 

~orucm~ 
11""P1Trfr.lUIIe 
macnelly.com 
Education Degree A Necessity 
t\fl!~r rPading a coupln letters to the editor in 
Viewpoint on Mar. 2 from classmates of mine in the 
Saint Mary's l·:dw:ation Program, I felt compelled to 
lind out what Mr. Sp<mcnr Stnfko had to say in the 
lnsidn Column on Feb. 25 and thus write this letter in 
reinforeenwnt to delimd those of us who have chosen 
the aspirations of becoming career teadwrs at a 
$25,000-per-ynar institution. 
Four years ago, I chose to come to Notre Dame for 
many reasons. one of them being that it had a joint 
education program with Saint Mary's. t\fter graduating 
from Notre Damn this May, I will be returning next fall 
to Saint Mary's to finish oil' my teaching certification 
with a snmnst<~r of student-tnaehing. and through it all, lt\vill only be accumulating morn to my debt with 
anotlwr snmnster of tuition eost in which I will be basi­
cally "teaching." I am still p1~rplexnd with the notion of 
"paying to tnac:h," especially wlwn this country is in 
nPnd of good tPaclwrs t\NI) the fact that teachers 
recniw <me of the lowest pay for the most output of 
tinw and Pll'ort. But it is a career that I have desired 
sincP I was in high school. 
Some may say it isn't worth tlw exorbitant cost of an ND/SMC education that we pay whieh yields a low salary, possibly ranging from $12,000-$25,000, but I gw~ss orw has to literally pay tlw prin~ to "experience" a ND/SMC mlucation in pn~paration to beeomc teaehnrs of our futun• gmwration. (So if anyone wants to help my calls!' to savP tlw future of America, you know how 
t.o contact Illl'. Any and all donations will bn graciously aeeeptPd.) 
TPaching is both an art. and a science. Not just any­one can go through the process of an mlueation train­ing in both tmu·hing and the cont<~nt area and expec:t to be "good" teadwrs. Tlw training and experience is nemled as well as tlw unique personal enthusiasm and skills one has to have to be ablf~ to motivate and convey information to students. We've all seen good and bad toadwrs through our many ynars in the sc:hool system, and if bning a teaehnr is so simple that "classes essen­tial to teaching could all be squeezed into a summer." tlwn why down still havn some teachers who c:an't "toach'?" 
Being knowledgeable in your field doesn't necessarily nwan you can "tnach" anyone. I'm a mathematics major. and liJr tho most part. none of the dasses I've taknn hnrn in college will (directly) prepare me to teaeh high sdwol mathematics. In a way, I may be over­qualilind, but it becomes a c:hallenge when you have to explain conePpts to students at their level and back­ground knowledge that they have acquired so they are lwttnr ablP to comprehend. I have so much respect and give credit to elementary teachers who have to deal 

with energetic, c:urious and sometimes stubborn kids 
day in and day out. 
I have had numerous teaching opportunities, tutoring over 4('0 hours to student-athletes, observing about 100 hours in the high school classroom, and also volun­teering many hours in other tutoring programs. With all these experiences, I have learned and eontinue to learn so much as to what works and doesn't work with students, and yet, I know I am in no way at the level of c:omfort or confidence to be the kind of teacher I pur­sue. t\ll of this only adds to my preparation when I will one day be standing by myself in a classroom of my own. 
Teaching experience in the dassroom is a total must, and even with 13-17 years in the classroom with a · viewpoint of a student, it is not enough preparation to handle the everyday demand teachers face with stu­dents. Granted, tutoring is not necessarily the same as having the lull control of teaehing a classroom of stu­dents. I think of tutoring as giving the students the sim­plified short-cut to a better immediate undlerstanding, yet when you are the teacher, you want to give them the long-lasting knowledge of the history and of the who, what, when, where, why, and how fulfillment that they may earry along with their fundamentals skills. Furthermore, as a tnac:her, you are upholding a profes­sional level of integrity and authority in giving your time and patience to kids of all-abilities ranging from the lowest level to the most advanced level. 
It's always easy to say something looks easy to do observing from the outside window, but until you step into a classroom with 25 pairs of eyes staring at you to teach them, to motivate them, to listen to them, to pro­vide them with their needs, 1~tc: ... you'll understand what it really takes. And everything you learned in your content area and theories of teaching may make no dill'erence when 25 different personalities are run­ning at you and around you in your mind. 
Being a teacher nowadays encompasses so much, especially with the added responsibilities society has put upon us to shape the lives of our youth that some families have abandoned and other social influences have efl'ected. The career of teaching is challenging and r.onsistently changing. 
So those who can, do TEACH. And it is the passion of teaching that we have that makes us enter this reward­ing profession. 
Binh Huynh Senior, St. Edward's Hall March 5, 1998 
GLND/SMC 
Status Quo 
Unacceptable 
On behalf of the Board of Directors of Gays and Lesbians of Notre Dame and St. Mary's College (GLND/SMC). I write to express our disappointment OV(~r the recent decision by President Marilou Eldred refusing to grant offieial recognition to The Alliam~e at Saint Mary's. President Eldred was presented with a unique opportunity. During her inaugural yoar sho could havn done the right thing and made Saint Mary's a better-· place because of it. Instead. whether motivated by po'li­tics or her own personal biases, she choso to maintain the status quo and deny the Saint Mary's community of a vital and necessary student-provided resource within which to openly discuss issuAs or sexuality. 
President Eldred, along with her administrative coun­terparts at Notre Dame, apparently fail to understand the immense ellects of a decision sw:h as this one. Sum, official recognition of The Alliance or a similar student group is important in principle. However, the principle involved is not the only motivating fhetor in seeking recognition. A student-run group, such as The AlliancP or GLND/SMC, can provide a peer support network that is eomforting, welcoming and essential for those stu­dents dealing with issues of soxuality. No matter how many professional counselors, health care practitioners or clergy are available, none of them can provide the same degree of' assistance and eomfort that am alli1rded by friends and fellow students going through tho same or similar situations. A decision not to approve a group of gay and lesbian students or a group that will address issues of sexuality sends tho message that tlwse stu­dents are second-class members of the so-ealled Notre Dame and Saint Mary's "family." 
As part of a still unrecognizfld organization, we at GLND/SMC have been in the same position The Alliance finds itself in now. The leaders, organizers and mem­bers ofThe Alliance should remain focused and contin­ue their mission ofproviding their valuable service to the Saint Mary's community. The Alliance can do that with or without recognition. You have our support and the support of a large portion of the Saint Mary's and Notre Dame community. GLND/SMC looks forward to working with you in the coming months. 
Karl J. Eichelberger Chair, GLND/SMC Third-Year Law Srudent 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Iremember once I drank 49 
Guinnesses straight off and 
I came home on top of a bus. 
Right on top of the bus, too, 
not just the upper deck.' 
-Dylan Thomas, as quoted by Peter Walsh in his book 
Guinness. 

VIEWPOINT'
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
• So, WHAT's Mv PO!NT? 
Journalism: A Dying Art, or Good Acting? 
Tolevision journalism. An oxymoron if ever there was one. Especially when it comes to interviews. Have you 
seen a TV intPrview recently?. The biggest problem with interviews is the "fake" 
qu11stions that the interviewers ask their subjects in all seri­ousness. 
During the Olympic 
coverage on CBS this year, 
Nakasha 
the net­work aired a little seg­ment 

about the Nancy Kerrigan and Tonya Harding scandal the night bnfore the ladies' figure skating program. Pseudo-reporter !larry Smith had the lovely job of interviewing and r11hashing the whole event with Tonya Harding herself. Ncar the end of the interview, Smith put on his dramatic face, sighed deeply, and said something to this effect to Harding: "Can you look me in the eye and tell me that you didn't know about the attack on Nancy Kerrigan before it happened?" 
I won't leave you in suspense of the answer. Of course she said no. 
What kind of a question was that? Did CBS (or Ilarry Smith) really think that after all the question­ing, by both police and the media, all the hoopla sur­~::::::=::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~'::::::=:=~~==:, 
Ahmad 


rounding the 1went, that four years later Tanya Ilarding would break down and confess to a crime (that is, if she did it) just because she was intimidated by looking into Harry Smith's eyes? 
Give me a break. 
This is not the only example of a reporter asking stupid and obvious questions. 
In a recent interview with two parents suspected of possibly being involved with their five-month-old baby's disappearance, reporter Debra Roberts flat-out asked them (after all the dramatic preparations, of course} whether they had anything to do with their baby's disappnarance. 
Of course they said no. 
Most reporters snem to think it their duty to ask sus­pected people the straightforward, obvious, "did you do it" question. Unfortunately, these type of "no­brainer" (no-brainer because nobody will admit to wrongdoing) questions make for better and more dra­matic television than they do for better journalism. 
First of all. this country operates on the assumption that people are innocent until proven guilty. To ask those pnople who have only been suspected of a crime and have not bi)CJl proven guilty is akin to harass­mnnt. An interview is not a trial and should not be made to sound like one. These kinds of questions, especially on tnlevision, can harm an innocent per­son's reputation. 
On the other hand, if the person is guilty and simply hasn't admittnd, they will hardly be stupid enough to admit it just because a nice little television reporter asked them to. Asking the obvious question is a kind of symbolic act-it lets the viewers know that this report1~r is doing his or her job and asking the right kind of questions, the tough kinds of questions, while providing a great dip for the commercial advertising the "exclusive interview." We the viewer see the reporter asking the fatal "did you do it?" question, and then are left hanging while a disembodied voice tdls us to tune in to lind out the real truth. 
The real truth, whether innocent or guilty, is always that they didn't do it. This, of course, is the obvious answer to a yes-or-no type of question. The rest of the interview is usually just a rehashing of the story that the audience already knows. 
This is not to say that television journalism serves no purpose. In some eases interviews are helpful and by interviewing experts can confirm the veracity of the reported story. Hidden cameras and other such devices are also helpful in simply confirming what the reporters are claiming. However, when reporting crimes, interviewing suspected criminals is rarely edi­fying to the audience in any way. If anything, the audi­ence makes a decision, not based on what the sus­pects say, but on what they look like (much like politi­cal campaigns}. This is a disservice both to the audi­ence and to the interviewee. Good television doesn't necessarily make for good journalism. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a sophomore English major from Saint Mary's. Her column appears every other Tuesday 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
our troops were at greater risk from the designs of 
their own superiors back home than from the enemy 
in the desert. 

But what is most striking in these recent news accounts is what isn't in them: any word about the Iraqis, soldiers or civilians, for whom exposure to uranium radiation can have been neither infrequent nor short-term. 
Enough of the perversely lame excuses about their misfortune being the responsibility of their leader. Look around you. You see students, nurses, plumbers, office workers, electricians, teachers, store clerks, fathers, mothers, children. Now look at Iraq. Look beyond the soldiers, beyond the demonizing rhetoric. You will see, I swear, students, nurses, plumbers, office workers, electricians, teachers, store clerks, fathers, mothers, children. 
Now look more closely. According to an early report by the British Atomic Energy Authority, 40 tons of depleted uranium in empty or fragmented shells would result in an increase in cancer deaths in Iraq -of 500,000 persons. Not enemies, persons. But more recent estimates of the amount of depleted ura­nium actually left behind run as high as 300 or even 700 tons. With a radioactive life measured in millions of years. 
The birth defects already being noted with increas­ing frequency echo those seen in the Bikini and Pacific islands after nuclear testing half a century ago. We could have foreseen this. 
Iraqi children who come down with cancer because 
~:::::=:::;=:::;=:::;:;:::;:;:::::;:;:::::::;:;:::;:;:::;:::::;:;================~ of uranium exposure receive a largely unneeded tuto­

rial in the intricacies and twisted ironies of economic sanctions. For while they are deemed eligible to suffer the effects of radiation, cancer treatments (which themselves contain minute traces of curative radia­tion) are forbidden under the present sanctions. I try to imagine my own children in such a predicament, and I cannot. The horror and the rage overwhelm me. 
Reading a news story filed by a British journalist I find myself reduced to silence and shame. Felicity Arbruthnot, touring Iraq after the war, recounts how nearly every Iraqi household has somewhere on a shelf a "black souvenir" of the war, a spent bullet or a bit of missile. They stand as grim reminders to Iraqi families of the days of hell dluring the Gulf War. Truthfully, they stand as "gl\fts that keep on giving," continuing to percolate with silent but deadly radia­tion. 
She was particularly struck by a visit to a counseling center set up to help traumatized children after the war. There, on the center's shelves, interspersed with colorful donated toys, stuffed animals, and books, sat dozens of such "black souvenirs." When she inquired about them, the psychotherapist explained, "The chil­dren pick them up and brin:g them in. It is their way of coming to terms with their fear, their way of healing themselves." If only they knew. 
God have mercy on those among us who did know. 
David Weiss is a Ph.D. candidate in Christian ethics. His article appears every other Tuesday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily ,~hose ofThe Observer. 
page ll 
• TABLE TALK 

Toys fc~r Tots? Only Time Will 
T(~ll 

Veterans' groups are outraged by the recent disclo­sure that up to 400,000 U.S. troops may have been exposed to radiation during the Gulf War. A study by the National Gulf War Resource Center reports that 
U.S. service personnel were at risk from the depleted uranium used to increase the armor-piercing capabili­ty of U.S. artillery shells. 
===============~~~~~~~~ Mthough

relatively stable when man­
David 

ufactured into the shells, the uranium
Weiss 

oxidizes into a toxic 
-----========---and
radioactive airborne dust when it explodes, coating the shell frag­ments and the nearby area. Nearly one million such shells were fired from aircraft and tanks during brief conflict. Troops were exposed by friendly fire mishaps, during close combat, or in post-combat weapons-recovery and clea.n-up operations. 
While short-term symptoms of uranium exposure include "only" nausea, vomiting, weakness and diar­rhea, long term symptoms include damage to the liver, kidney, chromosomes and immune system, as well as cancer and birth defects. 
I, too, am dismayed at the seeming reckless aban­don with which the military at times treats its own, hav~ng already put them in harm's way-as though 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998
page 12 The Observer • IRISH FOCUS 
T
he 13 hour drive to the mission was exhausting for all, including Chris Butera, Scott Potter, and Kate Duffy. 



T
he mission invested in a 69-foot warehouse, but it collapsed under heavy snow before it could be completed. Some of the students and alumni endured blizzard conditions to help take apart the warehouse; they were back the next day to start putting it back together. 
•
Outreach Ill Appalachia 

Notre Dame alumni Walter Smith reads a story to Jonathan Cole, the son of one the mission employees. 
Students, alumni trade break for service 
This past spring break, over McDowell mission in Gary, works in the area doing vari­200 Notre Dame students and West Virginia. Gary has been ous construction projects for a collection of Notre Dame ravaged by the withdraw of the local people. The Notre alumni went to the the coal industry from the Dame students and alumni Appalachian mountains to Appalachain region. helped them prepare for the work on one of 12 different The McDowell mission was summer by renovating the service projects. This the story establish to serve this impover­mission and beginning the of the 11 students and eight ished community. During the reconstruction of their col­alumni who went the the summer months, the mission lapsed warehouse. 


Tuesday, March 17, 1998 The Observer • IRISH FOCUS page 13 

S
cott Potter hangs out over the Appalachian sky to drive in one of the ware­house's almost 3,500 bolts. 

After dismantling the collapsed warehouse, the volunteers went to work putting it back together. The job was quite difficult; only three sections could be placed per day. 




C
ourtenay Myers and Katie Wood take a break from the 20 degree tem­peratures to warm their hands by the propane heater. 

Photography by John Daily 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
• GOLF 

• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Woods endorses Wheaties 
Boilermakers 
Associated Press 
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla. 
Tiger Woods, whose face already is on everything from billboards to magazine covers, now will grace American breakfast tables. 
Woods on Monday became just the eighth permanent spokesman in the nearly 75­year history of Wheatins -the breakfast cPreal pitched as the "breakfast of champions." 
Wheaties will carry three cereal box covers showing Woods swinging an iron, hold­ing his putter in the air and carrying a trophy. 
"This. in a sense, is like being part of a Hall of Fame kind of crowd." said Woods. 
Woods was joined at an announcement at The Official All-Star Cafe at Disney's Wide World of Sports complex by past Wheaties pitchmen Walter Payton, Bruce Jenner and Mary Lou Retton. Woods lives in Orlando and is part owner of the restaurant. Woods joins an elite list of leg­endary American athletes who have been Wheaties' spokes­men. 
They include baseball's Pete Hose; tennis' Chris Evert Lloyd; basketball's Michael Jordan; football's Payton; and former Olympians Bob Hichards, Jenner and Retton. 
"What's kind of cool is that golf is now considered an ath­letic sport," Woods said. "I was always called a 'wuss' for playing golf, but I'm here." 
While dozens of other ath­letes and sports teams have appeared on the front of the cereal box, a spokesman's role 
Associated Press 
NEW YOHK .Jack Nicklaus can play in the 
U.S. Open. after all. The USGA on Monday gavo Nicklaus spe­cial exemptions for the next three tournaments through the year 2000. 
W h e n 
.-------. Nicklaus was not among those given exemptions by the USGA in January it appeared his streak of con-L~~::!!llllll•~ s e c u t i v e Nicklaus major cham­pionship would end at 145 after this year's Masters. Now Nicklaus can extend that streak through the 2001 Masters, if he chooses, pushing it to 157 consecutive major championships. lie has lifetime invitations to 
the Masters and the PGA Championship and can play the British Open until he is 65. 
This year's U.S. Open is June 18-21 at The Olympic Club in San Francisco. The 1999 Open is at Pinehurst No. 2 in North Carolina, and the 2000 tourna­ment is at Pebble Beach. 
"The invitation was a sur­prise to Jack," Nicklaus spokesman 
Scott Tolley said from Golden Bear offices in North Palm Beach, Fla. "He told USGA offi­cials he would call them back this week." 
Tolley said Nicklaus felt the position he was being offered was an important spot for a young golfer and that he want­ed to feel certain he was physi­cally able to play before accept­ing. 
The U.S. Open is the center­piece of Nicklaus' season. If he decides to play in the Open it not only means he will likely 

is more involved and consists of commercials and public appearances. 
steam past Rams 
The association with the cereal generally lasts a life­time, said Bart Heed, Wheaties' marketing manager. "Anyone who enters the Wheaties' family is always a member," he said. 
The details of Woods' con­tract weren't disclosed. A source told The Associated Press on Friday that Woods will be paid by General Mills through contributions to the Tiger Woods Foundation, which helps minority youth get involved in golf. 
Woods, the youngest winner of the Masters Tournament, endorsements since turning pro in August 1996, including deals with Nike, Titleist, American Express and Rolex. 
which came in the first half. Katie Cronin, Colorado State's
Nicklaus receives redemption 
second -leading scorer. fin­
In their only prnvious meet­ing this season. Notre Dame b1mt Purdue 77-71. 
Colorado Statfl led by 13 in the first half. thanks to six straight 3-pointers -includ­ing three from Hammon. But Purdue ended the first half with a 13-4 run to cut the lead to 38-34 at the brnak. 
And thn Boilermakers start­ed the second half just as they ended the first -on a tear. Sparked by Curless. they scored eight unanswered points before Cronin finally hit a 3-pointer. her first basket of the game. 
Back-to-back baskets from Curless gave Purdue a 49-45 lead, its largest of the game. with 12:52 left. But Colorado State wasn't done y11t. Cronin hit a 3-pointer and then dished ofT to Hammon for a layup. 
Heather llaanlln's layup gave tlw Hams' a 52-49 lead with 10:48 left. but that was it for Colorado State, which couldn't handle Purdue's pres­sure. The Boilermakers were all over the floor, making shots and thnn stealing the ball at the other end. 
By the time Colorado State scored another field goal, a 3­pointer from Johnson with 
1:53 left, Purdue led 69-60. 
Associated Press 

WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. 
With Colorado State putting on a shooting clinic from 3­point range, Purdue needed someone -anyone -to step up. Mackenzie Curless figured it might as well be her. 
The sophomore center scored 12 of her 18 points in the second half Monday as Purdue beat Colorado State 77-63 in the second round of the women's NCAA tourna­ment. 
Ukari Figgs and Stephanie White each had 20 for the Boilermakers (22-9), and Michelle Duhart added 10. 
Becky Hammon led the Rams with 23 points, 19 of 
play all four majors but it also means he will play other tour­naments to get. ready. 
That is likely the decision he will consider over the next few days. 
Scott Simpson, the winner of the 1987 U.S. Open at Olympic who took the Buick Invitational in February for his first PGA Tour victory in five years, was also granted a special exemp­tion. 
"I am grateful to the USGA 
ished with 12 after going scoreless in the first half. Jacque Johnson also had 12 for Colorado State (24-6). 
With 21 seconds left, rookie Purdue coach Carolyn Peck went down thn bench, exchanging high-lives with her players. The Boilermakers play Notre Dame on Saturday in the Midwest Regional in Lubbock, Texas. The Irish defeated top-seeded Texas Tech on Sunday night. 
for this invitation and its faith in me as a past champion," Simpson, 43, said. 
Please see tomorrow's
Nicklaus has played in every Open since he was a 17-year­old amateur in 1957 and has 
Observer for women's 
said he would play as long as he feels competitive. At Dora! two weeks ago, Nicklaus shot rounds of 70, 7 4, 
tennis and women's 
72 and 77, finishing in 58th place at 5-over-par 293, 15 strokes behind winner Michael 
lacrosse coverage. 
Bradley. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHlce. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is.~ cents ptr character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing reft1nds. 
NOTICES 
Notre Dame Amateur (Ham) Radio Club Organizing. Earn your license quickly. Communicate with other amateurs-on campus. on a dis­tant continent. or in an orbiting space station! Interested? Call 631­9127. 
•..Attention Sophomore Accounting Majors·.. Looking for a job for next school year? Position available at the Morrissey Loan Fund. Call Deb at 1·66t6 for information. 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! 
Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight 
Fri 7:30am -7:00pm 
Sat Noon -6:00pm 
Sun Noon -Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
KISS THE BLARNEY STONE!!! 
In honor of St. Patrick's Day 
stop by LaFortune and kiss 
an authentic blarney stone. 
TODAY: 3117/98 5-10 p.m. 
sponsored by Mu Alpha Theta 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: keys. on a joey joe key chain, call 273-9942 
LOST: one gold card-cannot party without it! if found. please call 241­rumm LOST-CAMERA IN A GRAY 
SUEDE CASE-PENTEX SUPER 
PROGRAM PLUS -35MM W/ 
FLASH-PLEASE CALL 289-1324 
LOST: Texas baseball cap in 
Hesburgh center Feb. 26. Drunk 
sentimental value. Jim @ 4-0608 
WANTED 
Advertising Sales Internships University Directories is hiring stu­dents to sell yellow page advertis· ing for the official campus tele­phone directory this summer. Commission based pay structure. Training program. Excellent sales & marketing experience. Callt-800­743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.universitydirectories.com 
$7-$8/hr. Childcare needed for 
Spring (4/5-6/15): T,W, Th, 
3:30-5:30 & summer (6/98-8/8/98: T, W,Th, F 9-2) for 6 & 8 yr-old boys. Looking for creative, ener­getic. and experienced individuals. Responsibilitiies include organizing and implementing educational activ­ities, light housekeeping and meal prep. References required. Contact Karen or Gregg at Baer­Barkley & Co. 273-9000 between 8­5, monday-friday 
''' SO./FR. BASSIST ... needed to complete ORIGINAL POP/ROCK band. Call Dan x 0817. 
.
FOR RENT 
I 
APT. New Buffalo. MI. Prof or Grad Student who com­

mutes between Chicago & ND Non-smoker pref. No pets. 1-800· 265-1682. 
3 bdr home. 2blks from campus 
273-1566 

1-BEDRM APT 4 SPRG'99 SEM Looking for someone to cont. 2nd­half of lease. $200/mnth. turn, utiI. incld. Call Binh 4-1515 
ALL SIZE HOMES 
CLOSE TO CAMPUS 
232-2595 

FREE SUMMER STORAGE "98-'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar. WID. V-Ball Ct. 1628 Portage. 
234-3831 I 273-0482 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES 
NORTH OF ND GOOD AREA 
2773097 

8 BEDROOM HOME 2773097 
FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH OAKHILL CONDO, AVAILABLE 
AUG. 1ST. CALL OR LEAVE A 
MESSAGE (219)272-2910. 
FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New, never used, still in plasti<;. $225 219-862-2082 
1987 Ford Tempo, 5-speed, 4-cylinder. NC, new brakes on, stereo. red. $800 , call after 
8.30pm at 233-3358 
For Sale Clint Black Fort Wayne 3/14 Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows 272-7233 
PERSONAL 
CLASS OF . 98 L A s SENIOR s WEEK 
0 F IS 
9 COMING 8 
NEED A JOB NEXT YEAR?? Student Activities is now accepting applications for: 
LaFortune Building Managers Stepan Center Managers Ballroom Monitors Sound Tachs Office Assistants 
Information Desk Attendants Games Room Attendants Cake Service 
24 Hr. Lounge Monitors Building Set Up Crew 
Applications at 315 LaFortune. Deadline for applying is Apr. 9. 
Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID-112 price field fee. 291-2540. 
Hey -did you know... 
We're open early. late, and week­ends for your convenience! -THE COPY SHOP -
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a new born with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
Midterms el sucko!!! 
RENT 1628 PORTAGE '98·'99! 
234-3831 I 273-0482 
Where do I begin with the wonderful things that I have to say. 
Time to get jiggy/ 
Everybody gets some Iovin' 
A salute to Crazy Marlins, where only true champions remain stand­ing after a Brain Scrambler. 
I love Grease. Who cares how stu­pid we look singing!!! 
J likes to scale walls. 
R likes to drink out of coozys. 
C likes to run in the middle of the night. 
J likes to dance with guys in girl's sweatshirts. 
K likes boys that where Polo Sport. 
Threeman rocks. 

Why were those guys on the road filming us? 
I love Celina Dion. 
Here are to guys that have limps. 
I believe a transaction went down in Wendy's. I think it was against lhe law. 
Withdraw! from the Tiki is rough. I 
miss the awesome D.J. 
J let"s go swimmin" in the cess pool. 
To the main man in my life, Will Smith. You rock! I don't know what I would do if I couldn't get jiggy. You allowed Spring Break to be the best because nobody stands still for your song. 
A salute to two of our favorite 
schools, Marietta and Ole" Miss. 
I am signing off. My creativity is 
running low. 
Hutch-

Your time here at Notre Dame is 
running short. I haven't seen your 
face in awhile. Please stop by, I 
miss you. You are the best even if 
you don't grace us with your pres­
ence. 

Classifieds are the worst thing in the world. 
Jiggy! 
It is three a.m. 

That"s why they call me big poppa. 
Shadypiper we miss you and your glorious rooms. plush towels. hot sandy beaches. cheap phone calls, excellent message service. parking availability, the three sparkling pools and the awesome made ser­vice. 
165­1know that there are at least four girls that miss you. 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MEN's lAcRossE 
Loyola ruins team's hopes of unbe.aten rc•ad trip 
By TOM STUDEBAKER first faced the Pioneers from Ulrich added one a piece to and DAN LUZIETTI Denver University and won by give the Irish an early 5-1 Sports Writers a score of 12-7. Senior .captain lead. 
Jimmy Keenan put Notre Dame Notre Dame never lost the 
The break was full of ups on the scoreboard first, scoring lead. despite a strong effort and downs for the 11th ranked only 21 seconds into the game. from the young Pioneer team. Notre Dame men's lacrosse The Irish attackers, following Denver freshman Mike Law tnam. Tlwy endnd the week Keenan's example, got out to a had two goals and one assist with a n~cord of 3-1 with the quick lead thanks to a well­on the game. only loss hand1HI to them by balanced attack. Junior Chris Next up for the Irish was the Loyola this past wc1~kcnd. Dusseau scored twice in the Air Force Falcons. Notre Dame 
Tlw Irish started the week !"irst period, and junior Ben relied on the strong play of with a trip to Colorado. They Savage and freshman David Keenan and Dusseau to soar 

past the Falcons. Keenan scored a career-high six goals during the contest, while Dusseau tied his career-high by adding four goals. 
The Irish again took the lead early, scoring five goals in the first period to Air Force's one. 
Notre Dame received strong play from senior captain goalie Alex Cade who tallied 10 saves. Ulrich again had a strong contribution adding one goal and three assists. 
Although early leads helpe.d the Irish in Colorado, they were not so fortunate in Maryland. 
Notre Dame was down 12-2 at half-time against a superior Loyola team. It was an impor­tant game for the Irish, as Loyola was ranked just above them at 10. The Greyhounds dominated the game, outshoot­ing the Irish 44-19, had 67 ground balls to 31 for Notre Dame and won 21 face-offs to the Irish six. 
Ulrich recorded his second hat-trick of the season and added two assists to pace the Irish for a comeback. Keenan and Savage added two goals a piece along with Dusseau adding one. Loyola proved to 

4th Annual South Bend Center for Medical Education Mini Medical School Series 
Join us for 6 informative evenings as leading doctors and university & medical school 
professors discuss the hottest topics in medicine today. Free of charge and open to the 
general public. 
Session 1: The Human Genome:Possibilities & Problems (Genes for Non-Geniuses) Jay Tischfield, Ph.D. Tuesday, March 17, 1998 Session 2: The Liver Lets You Live David Crabb, M.D. Tuesday, March 24, 1998 Session 3: Women's Health Concerns-Kathryn Look, M.D. Men's Health Concerns-Jerry Hochstetler, M.D. 
Tuesday, March 31, 1998 

Session 4: Primal Emotions: Fear-Thomas Mawhinney, Ph.D. Anger-Mark Cummings, Ph.D. Tuesday, Apri/7, 1998 Session 5: Understanding & Defeating Cancer-Thomas Troeger, M.D. Coping With Cancer-Tom Merluzzi, Ph.D. 
Tuesday, April 14, 1998 

Session 6: Medicine: Past, Present and Future (From Leeches to Lasers) Walter Daly, M.D. 
Tuesday, Apri/21, 1998 

NOW AVAILABLE FREE ROOM & BOARD! 
NEED A PLACE TO STAY COMMENCEMENT VvEEK ?? WORK FOR CATERING 

SHIFTS AVAILABLE MAY 9 thru 17 
*FREE ROOM& BOARD *FLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULE 
* $6.75 PER HOUI~ 

CONTRACT SIGN-UPS Lafortune, Rm 108 Sat. 3/21 11am-Spm Sun. 3/;~2 12pm-Spm 
Questions Call Catering Employment L J..-@l 631-5449 

be too much for Notre Dame as from the tough loss at home the Irish fell by a score of 16-8, against the Rutgers Scarlet however. Knights Saturday at 1 p.m. at 
The Irish hope to rebound Moose Krause Stadium. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Gymnastics Club -The Clover Classic Home Meet is on Saturday, March 21. at 4:00p.m. It will take place at Gymnastics Michiana, on Home Street across from the 
. United Limo Office. 
Drop.;.Jn Volleyball RecSports will be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Wednesday night for the rest of the semester. Play will be from 8 to 11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Open to all Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
Modern Dance -RecSports will be sponsoring a class that will meet Sundays from 3 to 4:30 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 p.m. in Activity Room 2 of the Rolfs Sports Recnmtion Center. The fee is $20 and no experience is nec­essary. Open to all Notre Daml~ students, faculty and staff. 
Christmas in April Benefit Run -March 28 is the date for this SK or 10K run and two mile walk. The run begi.ns at 11 a.m. at Stepan Cent~r. The cost of the run is $6 in advance and $7 the day of the event. All registration/waiver forms can be obtained in the RecSports office and will also be ava.ilable at the event. 


-


The Observer/Jeff Hsu Notre Dame sluggers brought home three out of four wins to up their record to 5-7. 
• SOFTBALL 
Sluggers slip into deeper slump with 4-6 slide 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Sports Writer 
.:rhe Notre Dame women's s(Jftball team continued to struggle as they dropped six games over spring break and won only four. The team now stands at 8-13 for the season. 
The Irish kicked ofT the week at thn Fresno State Classic where they dropped their first three games. On Friday, March 6, the team lost a heartbreaker. falling to South Carolina 1-0 despite an outstanding pitching performance by Angela Bessolo. The Irish outhit the Gamecocks 5-4, but Notre Dame couldn't seem to get run­ners into scoring position. 
The~ followed up the loss with a double header on the next day in which the Irish fell victim to Oregon State and Oklahoma State. Bessolo lost her second game in as many days and fell to 1-5 on the sea­son. 
The team did end the classic on a high note as they dominat-
Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds. 
The Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism 
$500 in prizes 

The Department of Art, Art History, and Design is pleased to announce its annual competition for the Riley Prize in Art History and Criticism. Current Notre Dame undergraduate and graduate students are invited to submit essays on any topic in the history of art or art criticism for consideration in the competition. Essays must deal with the visual arts. They may have been written in conjunction with a course taken at the University, but need not have been. 
Rules governing the competition arc available in the Art Department Office. A total of $500 in prizes will be awarded. 
Two copies of the submission must be delivered to the Art Department Office, 132 O'Shaughnessy Hall, by 3:00PM. Monday. March 30, to be eligible. A student may only submit ONE entry. 
ed Western Illinois 7-0. Pitcher Jennifer Sharron recorded the shutout for the Irish. 
They then traveled to Los Angeles to take on UCLA in a non-conference game. The Irish couldn't put together back-to-hack wins as they fell to the Bruins in a close one, 4­
3. Kelly Nichols took the loss for the Irish. 
Notre Dame ended the week on a bit of an upswing as they played five-hundred ball, tak­ing three out of six in the Bank of Hawaii Invitational held in Honolulu. Hawaii. 
The Irish started off round­robin play with a 3-1 loss to Tokyo last Thursday, but split a pair of games Friday night. The Irish beat Chattanooga 9-7, but dropped the nightcap to host Hawaii 11-1. Nichols improved to 3-3 with the win over Chattanooga and lowered her ERA to a team best 1.18. 
Saturday saw the Irish pick up a pair of victories as they knocked off Loyola Marymount 9-1 and Tulsa 7-1. Freshman Melanie Alkire was brilliant as she pitched a complete game and allowed just one run on three hits for the first win of her career. 

Alkire also went 3-4 at the plate with two doubles, three RBI and a run scored. Jenn Giampaolo hit two hits, includ­ing a triple, and scored two runs. She leads the team in batting with a .309 average. Amy Laboe and Lisa Tully also 
• 

St. Patrick's Day Dance Party!! 
J1.G \ \ \ W[~l? 
You, 
'I? GJ?.


9:00PM -1:00AM ~tfV.~~~ Alumni-Senior Club 

• 

scored a pair of runs in the vic­tory. 
In the win over Tulsa, fresh­man Jennifer Sharron pitched her third complete game of the season, allowing just one run on five hits, as she picked up her second win of the week. Alkire again led the Irish to vic­tory with two hits, an RBI and a run scored. Laboe scored another pair of runs in the 7-1 win. 
-


But the Irish, the third-snnd in the bracket play, couldn't repeat their pr.rformance of the previous night, and Tulsa put together a 4-3 victory. Bessolo took the loss for the Irish, falling to 1-6 on the season despite an impressive 2.06 ERA. 
The team will take on Tolndo on Saturday before Big East play gets undnr way against Rutgers later this month. 
• 

-~ ~------------~ 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 page 17
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
,­

+Campus Ministry This Week + 





OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Tuesday, March 17, 5:05pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
St. Patrick's Mass 
Tuesday, March 17, 7:00pm, Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Catnpus Bible Study 
Wednesday, March 18, 7:30 -8:00 pm, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Taize Prayer 

Fridays during Lent, 7:15 pm, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Stations of the Cross 
Music Minis.try: March 20 Schola March 27 Liturgical Choir 
Friday -Saturday, March 20-21 
Retreat for Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Undergraduates and Friends 
For information, please contact: Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry (1-5242 or katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu); Mark at 4-1933 (mark.f.massoud.l@nd.edu) or Alyssa at 4-1884 (alyssa.l.hellrung.S@nd.edu). 
Sunday, March 22,1:00-5:00 pm, ND Room, LaFortune 
"What's The Future of This Relationship?" 
A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage. Pre-registration required, by Friday, March 20. Calll-5242 for Chris Etzel, John or Sylvia Dilllon. 
Sunday, March 22, 4:00 pm, Dillon Hall Chapel 
French Mass -Sponsored by The French Club Celebrant: Rev. Patrick Gaffney, CSC 
In progress, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Sign-up for Freshmen Retreat #17 
(March 2 7-28) for residents of Carroll, Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, 
Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford and Welsh Family. 
In progress, LaFortune Box Office Free tickets are now available for the March 21st NBC taping of "Easter at Notre Dame." This broadcast will be aired nationally on Easter Sundaty and 
will involve the Folk Choir and Notre Dame students. 


-~ -------~ -~-----------~ 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
Keep those IRISH et~es smiling.... 
celebrate Ireland's Histort~ and Humor on the BIG screen 

showing TONIGHT in LaFun BaLLroom beginning at 8:99 
FREE FiLms, food, & fun... what more do 4a want? 
~ ~
, .. .. . . ... 


Tuesday, March 17, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Irish make smooth transition to outdoors 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
Beginning their two-month road trip over break, Notre Dame seemed to be set on cruise control. advancing to 9­2. 
After gaining valuable out­door experience in the Pacific Coast Doubles Tournament in California, the Irish steamrolled Penn. 7-0. 
"!Thi~ doubles tournament) was a high level of competi­tion," coach Bob Bayliss said. "We basically made the week­end a transition for outdoor settings." 
The Irish were the fourth seed at No. 1 in college compe­tition for the open event in La .Jolla, Calif. 
The Irish were not in the most conducive situation. arriv­ing at 10 p.m. Thursday and beginning play at 9 a.m. the next morning. 
Still. Notre Damn put on a good showing in the tourna­ment that featured college teams, professionals and junior competitors. 
Danny Hothschild and Vijay Freeman advanced to the quar­terfinals before losing to San Diego State. Brian Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski lost in tho second round, as did Ryan Sachire and Matt Horsley. 
"The important thing is that we put oursnlves into a differ­ent situation," Bayliss said. "Playing outside is an extreme­ly hard transition." 
Although the modifications seem minor, adjusting to wind and different sounds outdoors takes practice. 
"Indoors, you get used to the ball falling exactly where you think it will," Bayliss said. "So footwork tends to be sloppy. Outside the ball keeps moving so they have to keep moving their feet." 
The echoes indoors also must be subtracted from outdoor play. Not being able to hear a boom after serves, players often suffer from hurt egos and tend to overhit as a result. 
"You don't realize how much [sound) helps indoors," Bayliss said. "It's an adjustment process." 
In their first outdoor dual match, the Irish had no trouble adjusting to nature as they breezed by Penn. Although both teams were equally disad­vantaged on outdoor courts, Notre Dame had the definite edge. 
After winning the doubles point with three straight wins, the No. 1 and 2 positions proved strongest as Sachire and Pietrowski quickly came up with two-set wins in singles. 
Sachire terminated Marc Fisicaro with ease, 6-2, 6-0, and Pietrowski put on a flaw­less performance to defeat Mike Klatsky, 6-0, 6-0. 
"Ryan continued with his high level of play," Bayliss said. "Jakub's been on something of a roll." 
Improving his backhand and level of aggressiveness, Pietrowski's self-assurance has boosted along with his win record. 
"His confidence has really jumped," Bayliss said. "He's hitting with more authority, and his backhand has started 
Anytime 
you call between 5:30 & 7:00, the price of your large 1 topping pizza is the time you call. 
* Plus tax 


to become a weapon." 
In addition, the rest of the lineup also was able to defend themselves against Penn. 
Brian Patterson came back from a first set 4-6 loss to take the next two sets, 6-1, 6-4, against Joey Zupan. 
Danny Rothschild continued making impressions as he built on his perfect winning streak, 6-3, 4-6, 6-4. 
After being absent on the 
courts for the past two match­es, Andy Warford put another win under his belt, 7-6, 4-6, 6­1. 
Eric Enloe's match was retired at the No. 5 position with a 6-2, 5-0 lead. 
"I was very pleased we took them out early," Bayliss said. "We were the better team. We've had the tougher sched­ule to date. We had more depth and talent." 

.. 

continued from page 24 
In an extremely long game, the Irish dropped Saturday night's contest by the slimmest of margins, 2-1. 
The teams were deadlocked at one goal apiece at the end of regulation. 
Freshman forward Dan Carlson gave the Irish their only goal, which was a short­handed one in the first peri­od. 
"I had a great chance near the end of the game," recalled Dhadphale, "but a great savH was made." 
The teams battled for 19 scoreless overtime minutes before Muckalt ended the madness with his game-win­ning goal. 
And so the stage was set for Sunday's dramatic, decisive game. 
This night's goals by Eaton 
and Dhadphale gave the Irish 
a 2-0 lead early in the second 
period. 
But Michigan struck back 
with two goals of its own to 
tie the game just eight min­
utes later. 
Michigan surged ahead in 
the third period 3-2, but 
Dolder knotted the game. 
Michigan· s power play proved 
to be too much for the Irish, 
and they recorded their third 
power play goal of the game 
to earn the 4-3 victory. 
"We were using a couple of 
lines, so we might have got­
ten tired a bit," Dhadphale 
said. "But we could have 
won either Saturday or 
Sunday's game." 
Unfortunately for the Irish, 
they will have to wait until 
next year to find out. 
Anyti 
you call between 
10:30-12:!;9, 
the price of )'Our 2 large 1 toppinlg pizzas is the time you call. 
* Plus ta": 
ND store 
271-1177 

Drive-In and D~elivery VisajMaste•·card
Saint Mary's/ 
Accepted
North Village Mall 
271-PAPA 
page20 

The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
Ifyou believe UNIVERSITY= a UNion ofdiVERSITY 
Then come join the MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 
Pick up Applications in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Deadline: March 20th 
------------------------·----------------­
All Students are Welcome to Apply 
------------------------·----------------­
For every difference that makes us unique, there is a common thread which connects us all. We share the need for home and community, for love and respect. May these common threads form a beautiful world in which all people and all cultures are honored. 
-Hallmark 

Tuesday, March 17, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Williams races to all-America status at l'~CAAs .. 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame qualified two runners for the NCAA indoor track and field championships 
last weekend in Indianapolis, 
one  of whom  came  back  an  
all-American.  
Senior  captain  Errol  

Williams placed eighth in the 55-meter hurdles in the cham­
"Don't be blind. Open your mind." 
1998 
CHuman ~ts and CurtuPaC 
q)tverstt'l <Week 

directed by: Keenan, Lewis, Sorin, Walsh, Welsh Family, and Zahm Halls 
Sponsored by: Office of Student Affairs Hall President's Council Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 

"U.S. Fof""eig"" Policy il-'\ the Past al-'\d Pf""eSeV\t: Jmplicatioi-'\S fof"" the People of Latil-'\ .Amef""ica" 
Presented by Cresencio Arcos, Jr. (Former U.S. Ambassador to Honduras) and Ivan Jaksic (NO Professor of History) 6:00 pm in Jordan Auditorium, COBA 

!"'" WON'T FIT ON 22ND... ···1

~--1 8ASEBALL/V 
t . A1 CONN .• NODN 

22 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL/V AT NCAA REG. SEMI. & FINALS DAY10N, OH WOMEN'S l.ACROSSEN VS. VANDERBILT MOOSE KRAUSE fiELD, 1:00 PM

._ __ 
.. fENCINGN AT NCAA CHAMP. 

pionships, while sophomore JoAnna Deeter took 15th in the 3000-meter run. 
Everyone who finishes in the top eight at nationals receives the title of all-American. 
Williams automatically earned the honor by qualifying for the finals. 
He placed third in his pre­liminary heat with a time of 
7.34 to make it into the finals. llis mark of 7.38 left him in eighth place. 
Early in the race, Williams was among the top four but dropped baek after one of the hurdles slowed him down. Larry Wade of Texas A & M won the event in 7 .11. 
"The race went as well as I could possibly have hoped for," Williams said. "This hap­pening this early in the season [indoors] was more than I had planned on. I was really happy about being an all-American." 
Williams' qualifying time of 
7.26 -a school record which was run at the Big East cham­pionships -ranked him 12th of 15 entrants heading into the meet. 
A Big East champion in the 55-meter hurdles last week, he ran in the 110-meter hur­dles in two NCAA outdoor championships. This was his first indoor championship meet, however. 
"From a performance stand­point, he ran well," said sprints and hurdles coach John Millar. "Our goal at the start of the year was to get to the finals really at the outdoor championships. This should give him some idea what to 


1998 


IN CREATING SPORTS1/2PAGE, NIKE MAKEi EVERY EFFORT TO BE ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY ERRORS, IF YOUil TEAM WASN'T COVERED, lET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP I<NOW AND WE'Ll TRY NEXT ISSUE 
--®--•0---~---o---o-----e--­
n

19 
21
16 
17 
18 
20 
0 
II

WOMEN'S l.ACROSSEN 
MEN'S TENNISN 
Ice HocKevN
WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALL/V 

WOMEN'S l.ACROSSE/V GiYMNASTICS/C 
AT BLUE GRAY NA>'L CLASSIC 
AT CCHA SEMIF., DETROIT
VS. COLGATE
AT NCAA 1ST & 2ND RouNDS 
VS. VANDERBILT 

ALABAMA, (THRU 22ND)
MOOSE KRAUSE fLD., 4 PM 
MoosE KRAUSE FLO.

fENCINGN 
1:00PM

M/W SWIMMING &
ROAD RACE TRAINING 
AT NCAA CHAMP 
DIVINGN 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/(
CLINIC 

ULTIMATE fRISBEE/( 
26
23 
25 
27 

WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALL/V WOMEN'S l.ACROSSEN WOMEN'S TENNISN 
MeN's TENNISN 
WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALL/V 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
VS. DUKE , 2:00 PM
AT NCAA REG. SEMIFINALS & vs. DUQUESNE AT MICHIGAN 
AT NCAA FINAL FOUR 
VS. KENTUCKY 

FINALS MOOSE KRAUSE FLO., 4 PM 4:00PM 
KANSAS CITY, MQ (THRU 28TH) 
ECK PAVILION, 11 :00 AM
SOFTBALL/V 
DAY10N, OH 8ASEBALL/V 

DOUBLE HEADER 
WOMEN'S lACROSSE/V 
WON'T FIT ON 27TH•.. 
VS. CINCINNATI 

VS. LOYOLA, IVY FIELD 
AT DAVIDSON. 7:00 PM 
OUTDOOR TRACKfV 
ECK STADIUM, 5:05 PM 

8ASEBALL/V 
ICE HOCKEYN 
AT PURDUE INV. 

W: AT NCAA CHAMP 
vs. MSU, N. ILL., MICH.
ND ROOM-LA FORTUNE 
STILL SMOKIN TOURN. 
MINNEAPOLIS, (THRU 21ST) 
JACC Aux. GYM

12:10-12:50 PM 
STEPAN FLDS. (THRU 22ND)
M: AT NCAA CHAMP. 
1 & 5 PM 

AUBURN, Al, (1HRU 20TH) 



Hi, I'm Colleen Henshaw, your NIKE student rep. Check out Sports1/2Page every two weeks for the latest scoop on sports and NIKE events at Notre Dame. Are you or your team setting any records? Breaking any new ground? If so, I want to hear from you­especially if you're a Club or Intramural athlete. Drop me an email at colleen.henshaw@nike.com. You just end up featured in the next issue. To reach NIKE HQ directly, try: sports.halfpage@nike.com Keep your eyes open when you're working out this month. Spot me or my Swoosh Team members wearing a "race me for a tee" t-shirt. Challenge us to a race. If you beat us, a Nike tee is coming your way ... Reuse-A-Shoe drive is coming! Round up your old athletic shoes (don't forget to check your closets if you're home over Spring Break), and drop them in the collec­tion box in your dorm. More details to come. 
AT RuTGERS 
Ill

VS. NE ILLINOIS 
AT WEST REG. NCAA TOURN. 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/( i 
EcK STADIUM, 5:05 PM 
r+

ANN ARBOR, Ml ~­
'··· ...A> ~1'/1\~SJ~RN.Af:IE.N> . 

expect at outdoors." 
Deeter had somewhat of an off meet, running 9:50.24 in the :WOO-meter run, her slow­est time of the season. Distance coach Tim Connelly attributed her lagging time to a lack of experience in this kind of race, which is an event with an unusual amount of pushing and fighting for posi­tion. 
"She just ran like she was real inexperienced in that type of race," Connelly said. "It was real physical. People were more concerned about place than running fast, and she'd never been in a race like that." 
Although her time was slow­er than usual, Deeter placed 15th out of 17, the same spot she was seeded going into the meet. Her qualifying time of 
9:30.82 represents a school record for Notre Dame. 
This was her first time com­peting at the NCAA track and field championships, despite having been named an all­American in cross country as a freshman. 
The NCAA indoor champi­onships brought an end to the a indoor season for the Irish. The track and field outdoor season will kick off March 27­28 with Irish athletes compet­ing in meets at Purdue, Stanford and Alabama. 
n
CLOVER CLASSIC 
0
AT GY~N. MICH., 1:30 PM 
... 
W/BASKETBALL/V 
ID A1 Nct,A REG. SEMI & fiNALS 
n 
... 
MEII'S l.ACROSSEN 
ID vs. Ru>GERS 
Ill 
r+
MOOSE KRAUSE fLD, 1 PM 
28 
8ASEBALL/V VS. ()EORGE10WN (DH) ECK STADIUM. 12:05 PM 
< 
MEN'S VOLLEYBALL/( 
II A'' MIVA TOURN. 
< 
Ill:50FTBALLfV 
... 
'< 
..... n 
II
DOING IT 
n 
c

Anyone who thinks you need varsity status to be a fierce 
C" 

competitor hasn't met Notre Dame's Gymnastics Club. The team swept its first meet of the season on February 
-
II

7 in Miami, Ohio, beating men's and women's teams 
:I

from nine Midwest rivals. Senior Bryce Emo placed first overall for the men; 
r+ 
...

freshman Ryanne Cox took third for the girls. 
Ill The club practices three days a week, working through individual routines 3 
and wrapping up each day with intense abs, strength and cardiovascular 
c 
... 

workouts. Co-presidents Molly Russell and Tom Purekal are sure their hard Ill work and effort will pay off with a top finish at the national meet in Buffalo, New York, April 3-4. Plus, it should bring some much-needed exposure to Notre Dame's outstanding gymnasts and others like them around the nation. Wish them luck! -Patrick C. Paquette 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS112PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NOT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY. INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

The Irish squad will have to take a strong stand against the Boilermakers Saturday in the regional semifinals. 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year and January '98. Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 
• Furnished/central afr • Flexible leas¢ 
. . . ~(". 
• All utilities included •Shuttle to campus/city 
lWD /.:'&''"· '·.·..·• At
• Indoor pool/spa 
•More info: 272..1441 


•Tennis, volleyball, & 
•Mon,fri 9,5, SatJO..J
basketball courts ://!'••·:'·· 
Road Race 
"~r;.. .,·v·....·r--ri"Y.. \ri..\J1..\F'i..\?i'
Tra1n1ng 

The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
----~--~---------------------~~ 
ity and we ran away from it." will still host tho Midwest The loss also ended a 12-Regionals, whic:h an~ set to
Irish 

game winning streak for the begin this wneknnd. Notre Lady Raiders, and ended a 9-Damn will head baek to
continued from page 24 
0 run in NCAA tournament Lubbock this weekend to faen "You have to give credit to home games. Entering the Purdue in the rngional snrnifi­match, the Irish was 0-5 nal.
Notre Dame," Texas Tech head coach Marsh Sharp said against ranked opponents The elash bntwcwn the Irish about thn loss. "They came this season. and the Boilermakers is set out with a Final Four mental-Despite the loss, Tc~xas Tech for this Saturday, at a timn 


y 
I I 

early sign-ups 
march 2-5 
11-2 pm 7-9:30 pm
Lafortune elevator lobby .:r 
$10 



MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
THI5 ARTICLE SAYS MEN ARE PAID ~5% MORE THAN WOI"\E.N. HOW DO YOU £~PLAIN THAT? 

CK.u:,:,wuKo 
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
~C1Uf:\LLY I IT SAYS 
WOMEN Mf>.I<.E 75¢ FOR EVERY DOLLAR THAT 1"\EN Mf>.K.E. THt>.T'5 33% MORE 
!=OR MEN. \ 
EUGENIA LAST 

on the 15th and 16th if you get involved in joint finan­cial ventures or if you aren't careful with your belongings. Don't rely on others to give you an hon­est opinion on the 17th and 18th. 
SCORPIO -Keep an open mind on the 15th and 16th. Research before making any commitments. You will get taken on the 17th and 18th if you get involved in joint financial ventures. You must be careful whom you deal with and who you lend things to. 
SAGITTARIUS -You will have trouble expressing yourself on the 15th and 16th. Stick to your own pro­jects and avoid making decisions. Evading issues on the l7th and 18th will not save you from disrup­tions on the home front. 
CAPRJ[CORN-Don't gam­ble on the 15th and 16th, loss is likely. Financial limi­tations will be depressing and restrict your life style. You may have a secret enemy on the 17th and 18th. Be careful what you say to whom. 
AQUARIUS-Travel will 
bring you knowledge on the 
15th and 16th . Discuss all 
your options with someone 
you trust on the 17th and 
18th before you sign any 
contraclts. 
PISCES-Your persuasive 
talent on the 15th and 16th 
will help convince others to 
support your efforts. Deal 
with red tape issues on the 
17th and 18th. Handle 
them as quickly and avoid 
damaging your reputation 
in the interim. 
... 

for a jockey? 3ft's true
47 Suffix with boy 23 Trophy locale or girl 4 Polite refusal, slangily
24Spasms 48 Prizes for a 5 Catherine, for winning jockey? 
25Whata 
onechampion 

54 "Constant jockey holds? 
6 Bantu Craving" singer, tribesman

31 Montreal club 1992 7 Riding a Concordat ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 9 Turns a maxi into a midi 28 Words before 41 Speech 
49 Be hopping mad10 Underwrite 
"about" and "at enliveners so Nasty sort 'em" 
42 Rushlike plants 51 Manipulates of film 29 Rocks ahead 52 Ike's ex
43 Rye, e.g.: Abbr. 30 Actress Blakley 53 Spot in the 
12As­
(usually) 

44 More adept 33 "The People's Senate13 College in 45A, Bore
Court" judge, 57 Promgoers: now 46 Fab Four name Abbr.
Lewiston, Me. 
21 Red Cross workers, briefly 34Stew 

35 He ran against .
22 "Whatever will I Taylor 1848 Answers to any three clues in th1s puzzledo?" 

' are available by touch-tone phone: 37 Completely sold 1.gQQ-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). on Annual subscriptions are available for the for short 38 Bigwig best of Sunday crosswords from the last 40 Highlander 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
ACROSS 1 Author Rona 6 Hits with a stun 
gun 10 Saudi or Iraqi 14 Sleep spoiler 15 Its motto is 
"Industry" 16"-Smile" (1976 hit) 17 Postgame 
activity 18 Off one's rocker 19 Porn 20 Loss of footing 
321ndiana's state flower 33 Col. Sanders's place 36 Top of the heap 37 Gives notice 38 Lively dance 39 Put one past 
40 Spirit 41 Sermon subjects 42 Nighttime jockey's gear? 
44 Shook hands (on) 
55 Bedevils, in a way 56 Its symbol is two horns 58 Nose (out) 59 Wind, so to speak 60 Kind of eclipse 61 Vintage cars 62 Jose's hurrays 63 Tiffs 
DOWN 
1 Crock 
2 Pub potables 

DAN SULLIVAN 
MIKE PETERS 
SCOTT ADAMS 
-" u l SUPPOSE THERE'S 
~ ~LM05T NO CHtt..~CE t YOU'LL PRAISE ME 
"' 

FOR t'\'< 1"\A.TH 5KILL5 RIGHT NOW. 
\_ 

YOUR HOROSCOPE 
ARIES-You will entice lovers on the 15th and 16th with your passion for life and your quick wit. You will have a greater desire on the 17th and 18th to get involved in educational affairs, cultural activities and travel. 
TAURUS-Don't get angry over trivial matters on the 15th and 16th. You mustn't blame others for your own stubbornness. You can achieve plenty on the 17th and 18th ifyou put your efforts into working on domestic projects. 
GEMINI-Get-rich-quick 

schemes presented on the 
15th and 16th are not likely 
to bring you the rewards 
you're expecting. Travel 
and romance go hand-in­
hand on the 17th and 18th. 
CANCER-Family should 

take top priority on the 
15th and 16th. You can be 
helpful if you listen to the 
difficulties your loved ones 
are experiencing. Mix busi­
ness with pleasure on the 
17th and 18th, socialize 
with colleagues and clients. 
LEO-Friends may need 

to lean on you on the 15th 
and 16th. Take the time to 
invest in yourself on the 
17th and 18th. Make the 
physical and mental 
changes required in order 
to raise your self-esteem. 
VIRGO-Don't make 

unrealistic promises on the 
15th and 16th. Changes 
regarding your own self­
awareness are evident. 
Family members may take 
advantage of you on the 
17th and 18th. Don't offer 
help or ask for it. 
LIBRA -Losses are likely 


Wanted: Sports writers and copy 
' 

editors. Cc)ntact the department at 1~4543 
• 

The Observer 
P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 

The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name _________________________________________ Address ____________________________________ _ City---------State ____Zip____ _,.. •. 
SPORTS 
page 24 Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Cinderella Irish continue fantasy season 
By BILL HART Assisrant Spom Ediwr 
Last year, the women's bas­ketball tnam shocked every­one by advancing to the Final Four and beco'ming the Cinderella of the NCAA Tournanwnt. 
This season, the Irish are proving that the glass slipper may still lit. 
A 7H-64 win over No. 8 seed Southwest Missouri State in the first round set up a matchup between Notre Dame and top seed Texas Tech, who acted as host for half of the first and second round games in the Midwest region. 
Tlw Irish had their work cut out for them, as the sixth­ranked Lady Haiders were led by Alicia Thompson, who tal­lied 3<J points in Tech's 87-75 first-round victory over (;rambling State. 
In one of the most shocking upsets of the weekend, how­evnr. Notrn Damn defeated Tnxas T1~ch 74-S<J to advance to tlw SwPPI I(~, 
It was rlPar that tlw ninth­sPedPd Irish would have an uphill battle from the start. as freshman l!uth l!ilny received two fouls l1~ss than onn minute into tlw ganw. 
"Well, when Hiley was on the bench, we put in Uunior Diana] Braendly," head eoach Muffpt McGraw said. "Sho's (,'4", so tlwre really wasn't a rr.al disadvantage in height." 
Tho Irish managed to stay in the gamr. dospite losing thoir leading rnbounder and the raging crowd of 8,174 in tho Lubbock Municipal Coliseum. 
Despite having a 29-26 dis­advantage going into the lock­er room. McGraw was pleased with how the team played in the first half. 
"We felt pretty good about our position," she said. "Even though we hadn't really played well, we were only three points down. We really didn't change our strategy that much in the second half. We had less perimeter shoot­ing. and concentrated more on the insidn." 
In the second half, the Irish took the lead early but were unable to hold on. For most of the half. the game stayed tight as both teams jockeyed for the lead. 
Notre Dame's tenacious defense kept Tech's perimeter shooting in check, as they went 3-for-17 from beyond the arc for the game. In the paint, the Irish swarmed Thompson and Angie Braziel, the two kny inside players for Tech. As a team, the Lady Haiders shot just 27 percent from the field in the second half. 
Then. with I 0 minutes remaining in the game, Notre Dame went on a 12-0 run to take a 55-44 lead and never looked back. 
"They amazed me. McGraws said about the team's performance. "I'm proud to see our team come out with such poise. to come out and beat a team like Texas Tech." 
On the offensive end, Notre Dame was led by Hiley, who scored all 23 of her points in the second half. After picking up her second foul, she did not receive another for the rest of the game. 

"It was really frustrating to sit on the bench," Hiley said about her thoughts in the first half. "I felt bad to just sit there. I felt like I had to come out the second half and do something for the team." 
During the first half, the brunt of the Irish momentum was carried by junior Sheila McMillen and freshman Kelley Siemon, with 13 and 10 points respectively. Senior Mollie Peirick had a game-high 11 assists in 34 minutes of action, while junior Diana Bracndly posted nine for the Irish. 
Thompson. a first team all­America forward. was unable to duplicatn her effort in the previous game, scoring 17 points to lead the Haiders. She led two other Tech players in double figures, with Braziel tallying 11 points and Julifl Lake scoring 12. 
"They really concentrated on the post area because we did well there ]Friday!." Thompson remarked. "They knew where to stop us and they did." 
With the loss, the Lady Haidcrs (26-5) became the second top seed in as many days to fail to advance on their horne court. On Saturday, Stanford fell to 16th-seed Harvard in the first round of West region action. 
see IRISH I page 22 

The Observer/Kevin Datum 
Danielle Green and company hope to build on their win over Texas Tech to satisfy championship dreams . 
• HOCKEY 


t 
: 
.. 
The Observer/Kevin Datum Michigan tripped up the Irish in CCHA playoffs, beating them two games to one. 

leers fall short in CCHA semis 
By CHARLEY GATES play percentage 6.2%, and sophomore John Dwyer Spons Writer were the least-penalized team nicked home a high shot from in the CCII A, yielding only the slot. pushing the lead to 2­
The Notre Dame hockey 4.03 power plays per game. 0. Freshman forward Hyan team came within a lucky The Irish also t'inished with Dolder and sophomorn bounce of advancing to the an eight point first period defenseman Nathan Bornga semifinals of the Central scoring margin, compared dosed out the scoring for the Collegiate llockey Association with the 13-point dnl'icit of Irish. playoffs. last season. Stnllar senior goaltender 
.The Irish dropped a heart­Notre Dame also was only Matt Eisler turned in a breaking serins to Michigan one of two teams to finish in tremendous third period, stop­two games to one. Both losses the top four overall in power ping 15 Wolverine shots, were by one goal. play percentage and penalty including a penalty shot by 
"It really could have gone killing. CCIIA lnading scorer Bill either way," said junior for­"We were a young team this Muckalt. ward Aniket Dhadphale, who year," Dhadphale said, "and "Eisler was the key all notched his 25th goal this sea­next year we arc looking to wceknnd," Dhadphaln said. son on Sunday afternoon. make even bigger strides." "My mindset corning into tlw 
But the Irish completed the On Friday night at Yost Ice game was trying not to do too eighth-best turnaround in Arena, the Irish captured the much. This year, l have a CCHA history, improving on first game of the playoff series great team in front of me. last year's 6-20-1 mark by 15 with a 4-2 victory. just wanted to let thn team points in the standings. The Irish jumped out to a 4-win this game, which they 
"It is good to see that we're 0 lead by the end of the sec­did." making progress," Dhadphale ond period. Freshman "This was an enormous win said. del'enseman Mark Eaton, for our young program," head 
The Irish can point to many strong candidate for CCHA coach Dave Poulin added. other statistics to demonstrate Rookie of the Year accolades, "We have been building conti­the improvement they have started the onslaught in the dence over thn last four made this season. They aver­first period with his 11th goal weeks. We played v1~ry well." aged 8.5 more shots per of the season. game, improved their power-Early in the second period, see HOCKEY I page 19 
®w 
vs. Purdue Fencing 
March 21, TBA 

at NCAA Championships, 
Q) •Men's tennis advances to 9-2 
at Angela Athletic Facility, 
vs. Rutgers 

Marchl9-21 ~
~ 
March 21, I p.m. 

see page 19
• ..... 
at Toledo 

Track
-"' 
•Williams earns all-American honors
~w 
March 21, 12 p.m. 

at Wabash College 
8f"' ~ 
March 21 , TBA see page 21
~ 
~ at Providence 
~: March 21, 12 p.m. 
~ 






