
• Brad Pitt and Claire forlani star in "Meet 
Native American Heritage Week 
Joe Black," while Holly Hunter and Danny 
Monday
See what events are going on to celebrate throughout

DeVito star in "Laughing Out Loud." See 
the week.

wh!ch one gets the better 
NOVEMBER

l"CVICW. 
Scene • 10 
News•4 
16, 1998 

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 52 

By MICHELLE KRUPA New; hlitor 
Ovi'J' 1)5 m1nor in a tavPrn" rita­lions issuPd last Thursday night at lhP Irish ConnPction Bar and Corby's Irish l'ub will lw prnsPntnd to thn St. .losnph County prosncutor this wonk for l't~view and possiblt~ addition of' rhargPs. 
llw "groat majority" of' tlw eita­t.ions won~ isstwd to NotJ·e Damn and Saint Mary's studnnts, according to a Nov. I:{ poI ice report com pi lnd by Captain c;ary Horvath. 
Stop llnderagP Drinking (SLID) teams including Indiana State, St. .losPph County, Mishawaka and South Bend police of'f'icnrs issund tickets to 94 Irish Connnction patrons and onP custonwr at Corby's. 
Tht1sn numlwrs were reported aftnr 
Irish Connection manager Leon Townsend conservatively estimatnd that only :~o to 40 patrons were cited at his nstablishnwnt. 
In addition to this class C misde­nwanor, night citations for alcohol possession or possession of' false identification were issund by police at Irish Connection. Two individuals were arrested, ono for false inform­ing and the other for alcohol con­sumption. 
"A small quantity of' suspected marijuana was located in the bar and was turned into Metro Special Operations Section for destruction," llorvath stated in the report. 
Notre Dame students can expeet a University response al'ter the arrest and citation records become public, according to Bill Kirk, assistant vice president for Hesidence Life. 
"Whenever the University finds out about these sorts of violations, typically, thn University responds. I would expnel that the University would respond in this ease," Kirk said. 
"Students kind of' take lightly their responsibility to obey the law on campus, but when they take it out into the streets of South Bend, it becomes even more of' a prob­lem," he continued. 
While Kirk would not speculate as to the possible ramifications for Notre Dame students, he did note the $100 University fine issued to those students cited for similar vio­lations in last January's SUDS raid on Bridget McGuire's Filling Station. The city of South Bend levied a $212 fine to those stu­dnnts. 

WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Donahue to speak at inclusion rally 
By MAGGY TINUCCI 
News Wri[Cf 

Phil Donahue will bn tlw knynotc spPaknr in a rally today to support 
....--------, the inclusion of sexual orientation in the University's non-discrimi­nation clause. 
Donahue, who was unable to attnnd thn last PSA rally for inclusion of the sexual orientation clause, asknd to speak at Donahue the Univnrsity on another occasion, according to Megan Fitzpatriek. membnr of PSA and the Womnn's Hesourcn C1mter. lie is volunteoring his time at t.lw rally because hn strongly hnlievns in tlw issue. 
The speakout, sponsornd by Notre Dame's Progrnssive Student Alliancn, will b1~ hold from 5 to 7 p.m. at Stepan Cnntnr. 
"Tho purpose of this rally is to show thn administration that thorn is groat faculty, staff and student support for tho indusion of sexual orientation in tho existing non-dis­crimination clause," Fitzpatrick said. "Wn be Iiove that the abs11 n en of this c. I a ust~ affects both campus life and tlw quality of our education lwre. PSA feels that any kind of discrimination is wrong." 
Donahue will serve as main spnaker and emeeo of the evnnt. Other spoakers will include Glnnn llendler and Barbara (;rnnn, both professors of English and law profes­sor Teresa Phelps. Seniors Karen Uhlnwynr, Mark Massoud and representatives from the Notre Dame Collegn Democrats Club will spoak, as well. 
PSA hopos this wide show of support from the faculty, student body and campus groups will influnnce thn outcomn of' Tuesday's vote, said David llartwig, a nwm­ber of' PSA, ref1wring to thn planned Faeulty Senate rnferendum on whether or not to include sexual orinntation. 
No need to fret 
about lice 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Wrircr 
Something has infected Notre Damn's campus during llw past wnek: not head lien, but the gossip and rumors assodatPd with it. 
"Liee is not a crisis situa· l.ion," said Ann Thompson, director of University llcalth Services, who stated that thPI'n arn currnntly fnwnr than 10 eases of liec on eampus. 
Humors of the lice infesta­tion started spreading around Wodnnsday of this past week when students began hearing of head-lice eases in MeGJinn Hall. Since then, gossip has stirred on the campus and thMe are more nnno1·s about lice than actual cases them­selves. 

Father John Conley of Siegfried Hall has said that no cases of lice have been report­ed at Siegfried, even though rumors to the contrary have scattered across campus. According to Conley, students from MeGlinn WOt'e visiting Siegfried the night the lice broke out and started rumors of the dorm's infection. 
"God knows what would happen if the plague hit this campus," said Karen Dubay, assistant rector of McGlinn, who believes tho lice gossip 
Photo courtesy of Samantha Snyder 

Members of the Folk Choir pray before their visit to the Indiana State
THERAPEUTIC 

Prision in Michigan City. The concert was attended by 400 of the 1850 inmates, and it was videotaped to be shown to the remaining inmates later in the week.
SONG see story on page 4
see LICE I page 4 

page 2 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 
The Lice 
Girls 
Lice. 
The very word makes your head itch, doesn't it'? You don't think any­thing of it at first, that small tickling feeling at the back of your head. You scratch it, thinking it will go away. "Lice on campus'?" you think. 

"No problem. I'm clean,  Heather MacKenzie  
I tell you! I live  Asst. Managing Editor  
nowhere near those  

nasty girls in McGlinn. They all have it, but if 
I stay away from them for the rest of the 
semester, I won't get infested. I can't. I told 
you, I'm clean." 
Then you start hearing about people in the dorm next to you getting lice. The people next door. Last you heard, your rector and his grandmother had it. Why wasn't Patty 0 in her office on Friday'? She must have it, too. Your head starts to itch more, and you start missing classes because between looking at your scalp closely in the mirror for little white creepy crawly things and standing in line at the infirmary for your 17th box of RID, you don't have time to do something as unclean as STUDYING. 
You can't take any chances right'? This is the plague! 
Give me a freakin' break. 
I've heard things this weekend that make my skin crawl even more than a lice infesta­tion possibly could. Stories about signs on residence hall rooms banning McGlinn women from entering. All-calls recommend­ing dorm members stay away from McGlinn residents. Shouts of "Are you clean'?" echoing across the quad. 
For students at a top-25 school, this stupid­ity amazes me. 
Let's get a few things clear. Lice does not jump, twist, swing or fly across the hall. It does not make you "throw up" as some genius espoused in line at the infirmary. It does not mean you are unclean, unkempt, unloved or untouchable. 
It just means you are unlucky. 
McGlinn has been going through a tough time the past couple of days. Not only did res­idents have to clean the entire dorm and can­cel a dance to make sure the "problem" was contained, the women of McGlinn had to endure unending rude comments and idiotic questions from so-called friends. We have been pointed at, singled out and avoided just because a common, relatively harmless para­site was accidentally brought into our dorm and spread to several of our residents. The lice may have been contained over the week­end, but the rampant ignorance that goes along with it has not. 
Did you ever think how it makes your friend from McGlinn feel when you start washing everything you wore since last Christmas just because she came over a few weeks ago'? Refusing her hugs just because the girl down the hall from her had lice'? Pretending that your head itches every single time she walks by? 
Have you ever thought that maybe you are the one who should be labeled "untouch­able?" 
The naivete around campus concerning this problem is infinitely more embarrassing than the problem itself. 
We've all heard enough. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAff  
News  Scene  
Bill Uniowski  Krisri Klirsch  
Robert Pazorntk  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Scon Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hare  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eduardo Llull  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday c:ycept during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproducrion rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November I6, I998 
utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Student poisons ex-girlfriend with iodine isotope 
PROVIDENCE, R.I. 
A Brown University graduate stu­dent has been charged with using a radioactive medical chemical to poi­son two other students -one of them his former girlfriend, authori­ties said Sunday. 
Neither of the poisoned students was harmed, said university spokesman Mark Nickel 
Cheng Gu, 24, placed a radioactive isotope of iodine in a dish of vegeta­bles and chicken he gave to Yuanyuan Xiao, a fellow student in molecular pharmacology, said police 
Lt. Stephen Campbell. Xiao's roommate, undergraduate James A. O'Brien, also ate the tainted food. 
Gu was arrested Friday and cha rged with poisoning, assault and lar­ceny. He was freed on personal rec­ognizance until his next court date. 
The attack apparently was moti­vated by "some kind of love inter­
• YALE COLlEGE 
Master still awaits formal charges 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 
One week after FBI agents searched Antonio Lasaga's Saybrook rooms, the former master has not been arrested and no charges have been filed against him. As Yale administrators and law enforcement officials maintain their silence about the nature of the investigation, informa­tion about the case is slowly trickling out through other sources. The New Haven Register, citing unnamed sources, reported that Lasaga is the subject of a child pornography investigation and that among the evidence seized in last Friday's raid were hundreds of explicit photos of children. Although Lasaga's Cheshire, Conn. residence was occupied on Tuesday night, it is unknown whether he or members of his family are inside. Lt. Robert Elliott, commander of the detective bureau of the Cheshire police, said Cheshire police had been contacted by "an agency" on Tuesday. He did not specify whether the agency was local, state, or fed­eral. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Pot smoking offenses treated leniently 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
One hit is not enough. During the past six months, only one of 16 University of Arizona students who was caught and formally reprimanded for using marijuana in the dorms was expelled, according to UA police statistics. Residence Life Director Jim Van Arsdel said students with a clean record are not expelled after being caught with marijuana the first time. "Marijuana is fairly com­mon in our society," Van Arsdel said. "If a student is in possession of a hard drug like cocaine, heroine or LSD, the typical .,consequence is removal from the residence hall altogether on first contact." But for marijuana, "the consequences aren't as severe," he said. Jason Koch was the one student expelled from his hall after three allegedly marijuana-related arrests in dorms. He contin­ued to live in Coronado Residence Hall after a pot viola­tion in August and was sent to the Dean of Student's Diversion Program. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather0 forecast for daytime conditions and high tempcfatures 
1,,_/__ _  H  LJI  
Monday  ~51  36.  
I  

Tuesday ~ 49 38· Wednesday~ 49 34 Thur~day 4, 53 39 
~ 
Friday ,,.,~ 43 3S.. 
:
1 
~j'"dJ'''' ....__,.!'"' ·-~...; 
Q,Q,~4.Q.Q ~ ~ ~ 
Showers T~storms Rain Fl~r;ies S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoc1ated Press GraphicsNet 


The isotope, iodine-125, is used to diagnose and treat thyroid disor­ders, and the amount Xiao and 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 16. 
40s 30s
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 20s @
30s 
FRONTS: 
~ 

40s .......-T' ..a.....a... 
.......... 
© 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Anchorage  12  -9  Guam  93  79  Nantucket  47  25  
Baltimore  40  22  Huntington Bch 80  68  Pawtucket  51  32  
Compton  81  65  Key Largo  84  63  Podunk  83  8  
Calabassas  76  58  Long Beach  78  63  Vacaville  90  4  
Duluth  38  19  Los Angeles  83  a67  Watts  78  69  

• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY Frat date-rape investigation continues 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Psi Upsilon's international headquarters has suspended all 42 members of its MSU chapter as it continues to investigate allegations that a fraternity guest was given the "date-rape drug" Rohypnol. Members will be inter­viewed individually before being allowed to rejoin the fra­ternity, said Mark Williams, the Psi Upsilon international organization executive director. This "reorganization" should be completed by the end of the semester, Williams said. "If they do not choose to be interviewed they will not be allowed to be connected in any way with the fraterni­ty," he said. "The same thing can happen if we are not satisfied with their interview." "Reorganization" is consid­ered the most severe action the international organization can take short of revoking a chapter's charter, Williams said. Rohypnol, or "roofies," is dubbed a "date-rape drug" because it has a sedative effect and causes temporary amnesia. 
• CotORAoo STATE UNIVERSITY 
Anti-gay incident results in suspensions 
FORT COLLINS, Colo. 
A Colorado State University judicial officer handed down disciplinary actions ranging from probation to suspension to 11 individuals responsible for displaying a message jeering homosexuals on a parade float. "We are very confident that this ruling matches the findings of the board," said Torn Milligan, director of media and community relations. The scarecrow with the o!Tensive message appeared on a home­coming float co-sponsored by the Alpha Chi Omega sorority and the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity. The sorority voted to dis­band following the incident citing embarrassment and intol­erance for the behavior. The national fraternity suspended the CSU Pi Kappa Alpha chapter. The anti-gay message, which was written on a scarecrow, appeared just days after University of Wyoming student Matthew Shepard was beat­en and left for dead on a fence outside Laramie, Wyoming The cydists who found Shepard, who was gay, said they first mistook him for a scarecrow. 
O'Brien received was about the same as that given in such diagnos­tic procedures, said Nickel. 
The contamination was discovered Wednesday when Xiao arrived at Brown's pharmacology laboratory, where students are routinely tested for radiation. 
A Geiger counter showed that Xiao was "hot," Campbell said. 
Finding nothing amiss in the lab, safety personnel went to Xiao's home and found radioactive contam­ination in Gu's dish of chicken, tomatoes, string beans and a green leafy vegetable, Campbell said. 
Although Gu worked in the labora­tory, he was not supposed to be working with iodine-125. 
The isotope was secured with a combination lock, Campbell said. 
lodine-125 has a half-life of six months, meaning half of its radia­tion dissipates every six months. 

Monday, November IG, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC social work awaits accreditation notice 

Women's Volleyball 


Wed., Nov. 18th vs. Toledo 7:00p.m. 

Watch Exciting Volleyball Action 
madn the necessary adjust­now. The College has n1alized
By COLLEEN McCARTHY Saint Mary's News Editor mnnts to earn recognition and that accreditation is beyond is anticipating notification of neeessary." Changes made have included
Tho month of Fobruary could tho NASW's dncision. 
bring good Iwws and thn rocog­Maureen Donovan, a junior adjustments to course material, nition tlw social work dopart­soeial work major, has wit­adding faculty with advanced nwnt at Saint Mary's has nessnd the ehangns tho dnpart­degrees in social work and 
sought for some limo. mnnt has made since hnr other internal changes. Artnr trying to gain program arrival at Saint Mary's. Twenty years ago, it was not 
aeernditation from thn National "When I eamn freshman year. necessary for social work pro­Association of Sodal Worknrs I was told thn program was not grams to be aceredited, said (NASWI for at toast I 0 yoars, · accredited," said Donovan. "It Donovan, who admitted that tlw dnpartmiHJt thinks it has is prntty much a nnw program times seem to have changed. 

The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Bi.scuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topped with sizzling sausage, egg and melted cheese tastes so good, it's enough to make anybody happy in the mormng. If only getting through the rest of the day was as easy. 
(AI partrcrpalrng restaurants. During breakfast hours only.) 
Tht HuckJie . L.At""onune ~tudent C.rter 
BURGER 
KING Itjust tastes better.· 
With the calling for social work faculty in addition to informally majors to pursun advanend intervinwing social work stu­degrees, graduating from an dents. undergraduate institution with "From what the representa­an accr!ldited program is to thn tives told us. tlwy said thny 
·degree-senknr's advantagn. were impressed by the involve­
"Instead of a Bachelor of Arts ment of the presidnnt of the degree, if' you graduatn from an Collegn, the intelligence of tho accredited institution, you students and tho leadership receive a Bachelor of Social from the director of the depart­Work," said Donovan. "The dif­ment," said Donovan. ference in degrees is that with The representativns citml the a Bachelor of Social Work, you involvement of thn social work 
can come into a graduate pro­students in the eomm unity as gram in an impres­social work sive aspect of w i t h the program. advanced Students in
'IT IS PRETTY MUCH A standing." NEW PROGRAM NOW. the major Getting a spend 30
THE COLLEGE HAS REALIZED
jump on hours their g r a d u a t e THAT THE ACCREDITATION IS junior year and 200
s t u d i e s BEYOND NECESSARY.' 
allows stu-hours their dents to senior year shave one to in field expe­two years off rienees. of their grad­
MAUREEN DONOVAN The oppor­uate work, JUNIOR SOCIAL WORK MAJOR t u n i t y she said. enables them 
With the to work with revamped social work pro­lodtl agencies, utilizing skills gram at Saint Mary's, stu­they have learned in their dents are now taking core classes. In effect, the students requirements that were for­arn practicing their Bachelor of merly left for first year gradu­Social Work, said Donovan. ate students. Suggestions the visiting rep­
. From Nov. 3-5, representa­resentatives offered the College tives from the NASW traveled for the program included link­to Saint Mary's for a site visit. ing the social work program The event allowed the visitors with the social justice and to gather information about women's studies programs. the program and to ascertain "Our faculty are unbeliev­whether the accreditation ·able,... said Donovan. "Thny are information Saint Mary's pro­there for us 24 hours a day and vided was being put into have worked so hard to gain practice. The mpresentatives aeereditation. We all have a also met with the president of good fe<~ling that the program the College and the dean of will be accreditnd." 

The loan B. Kroc Institute tbr Internati<>nal P~ac,, Studi~• prcwnr.· 
A Lectureshill Visit hy 
MICHAEL ZDRN 
Profes.c.,nr nf fnternational and Transnational Relation~; Co-Dirc~tor of the Institute tin Intercultural and International S1udics (lnllSJ University of Bremen. Germany 
The Effect~ of Glnbalization on Security 
Tm·"l~y. No~cmbcr 17, 4:15p.m. 'Ht~~hurgh CentPr A11rlirorium 
Glohalization and the Democratic Deticit in the EU 
leo-sponsored by the Nanovic Institute for European Studies) Wednesday, November 18. 4:1S r m ? t d DeBarloio 
This lectureship visil is sponsored by a srant 
from the (rimn:~n-Anwrio:;on Ac;~<lemic Council 
FVFRYONE WELCOME 
-----------------------~---------------------------, 
page4 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 16, 1998 
Folk Choir sings at prison 
By MARIA PEREZ News Writer 
The Notre Dame Folk Choir visited the Indiana State Prison in Michigan City yester­day where they gave a concert for an audience of 400 inmates. 
The prison is an all-male, maximum security facility which currently holds about 1850 residents; approximately 40 percent of the prisoners are in lockup units and 41 are on death row. The prisoners who attended the concert were all members of the gen­eral population of the prison: those who are able to leave cells for education, work or religious purposes. 
The concert was videotaped and will be shown later in the week to those in lockup. 
Father Joe Ross, Catholic chaplain to the prison, spoke to the choir yesterday in preparation for their visit. 
"It's a miserable, hard life there. That's why something like music and a whole crowd 
Lice 
continued from page 1 
has gotten out of control. Dubay expressed her disappointment in the reactions from fellow dorms on campus, stating that nearby dorms have posted signs persuading students to stay away from McGlinn. 
Lice is a very curable ailment, according to Thompson. Infected students were given medication such as special 
'IT'S ONE OF THE MOST 
PROFOUND SACRAMEN­TAL EXPERIENCES WE HAVE 
AS A GROUP.' 
STEVE WARNER 
DIRECTOR, FOLK CHOIR 
of young people can be so nourishing for them," said Ross, who is a former rector of Morrissey Hall. 
The choir members were able to talk to the prisoners after the concert who were seemingly very receptive to the choir's ministry. Also, sev­eral choir members said that the experience dispelled their myths about what they had expected of being at a maxi­mum security prison. 
"I was impressed by how respectful and courteous they were," said junior Ryan Murray. 
"I think we were worried 
shampoos and advice on wash­ing bedding and clothing worn within 48 hours of detection. Simple screenings can detect lice and Health Services has screened more than 400 stu­dents, said Thompson. 
"[Licel is not airborne," added Thompson, who said a person can only contract lice through direct contact with an infected person. Using an infected per­sonGs hair accessories or hav­ing intimate relations with an infected person might facilitate lice contraction, according to Thompson. 
that they would be judging us, or that they would think we were judging them, but it ended up feeling like we were all equal," said sophomore Kaileen Sanner. 
Director Steve Warner felt that the concert was most importantly a time of prayer and dialogue for the inmates. 
"I think that the conversa­tion and interchange. is far more important than the music-if anything, the music is an invitation to the conver­sation," said Warner. 
This was the choir's second trip to the prison. Some of the current choir members had visited the prison in May of 1997. 
Warner emphasized the importance of ministry to peo­ple in the prisoners' situation. 
"It's one of the most pro­found sacramental experi­ences we have as a group," said Warner. "We don't spend a lot of time nowadays talking about the corporal works of mercy, and this is one of them." 
Sister Kathryn Haas of McGlinn stated that the dorm has taken many measures in assuring the removal of the problem, such as extensive vac­uuming and recommending that residents get screenings. 
"!McGlinn] went beyond the call of duty," said Thompson, who said the dorm "did a great job" in cleaning up and trying to get rid of the lice. 
The problem is near eradica­tion, according to Thompson, and any student is free to take advantage of the Health Services' screenings. 

THE NATIVE AMERiCAN STUDENT ORGANIZATION OF NOTRE DAME PRESENTS: 
"Honoring Our Past Shaping Our Future" 
Native American Heritage Week 1998 
Monday, November 16th 
Dreamcatcher workshop Beading workshop 7-9 pm at The Huddle 
Thursday, November 19th 
Jackie Bird-Hoop dancer and singer 7-9 pm at Lafortune Ballroom 
Friday, November 20th 
Movie: Smoke Signals 7 pm Snite Museum NASAND Dinner 5:30pm Welsh Hall 
Observer Graphics I Scott Hardy 

'btudent 

Tennis C.\ini~ 
Monday, November 16 
6:00 PM -7:30 PM Eck Tennis Pavilion 
Stroke  Analysis  
&  
Playing  Situations  

Presented By: Men's & Women's Varsity Tennis Teams 
Free of Charge No Advance Registration Necessary Bring Your Own Racquet enn1s Shoes Required, No Running Shoes Allowed 
Open to All Notre Dame Students 
COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION CARDINAL O'HARA LECTURE SERIES ON BUSINESS ETHICS TOM G~ttAPPELL T..._ M..:;:::.-:: anb SPONSORED BY: N(ltn• Lkmu· Cmttr for El/ucs 11111/ Rdis11)us SRB \'alut:> in Business S.udlats for Rflponsible Business  


MonJay, November 16, 1998 
l 
i 
I I I I 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• . -j(' u ;:, Cruise ship visits N. Korea 
SEOUL 
i\ t'hartert>d South Korean cruise ship 
arrivt>d Sunday in North Kon~a on a test run 
for sight.sening tours or tlw n~r.lusivn commu­
nist. cot111try's scnnic IHlSt coast, lour organiz­
nrs said. Tlw 2S,700-ton llyundai Kumkang 
arrivnd at .lang .Jon l'ort. near Diamond 
Mountain on thn North's Pastern coast 12 
hours aftPI' !Paving South Korea's Donghae 
port. said Snoul's llyundai group, which is 
organizing tlw tours. lnstnad ol' taking a 
four-hour coastal routn, lhe ship took a 
longt>r routn, sailing out to open sea and 
thPn moving bac·k into North Koman wallws. 
Tlw rouiP was plantwd in dPfPrPncP to North 
1\orpa's r.onrPrns about sP.nsitivn military 
l"arilitiPs loratPd along tlw roast rwar tlw 
hordt>r with South KorPa, llyundai officials 
said. Th1• ship carrind about 400 South 
1\on•an tour guidt)S and llyundai oflicials on 
a two-day rnhnarsal tour. 
Ted Turner to run in 2000 
NEW YOHK 
MPdia mogul Tc~d TurniH' says hP is "very sc•rious" ahoul making a hid for the White llousP, nven though lw contends his wil'!), rornwr arl J'PSS .Iaiii' Fonda, doosn't approve. acwrding to a magazirw roport. In its Nov. 2:! issun, out Monday, The Nnw Yorker says Turrlf'r ll'l slip the idea after a rnr.ent black­liP Soutl11•rn California dinner whore lw n•c·pivod the World Citiwnship Award from a group dndicatt>d to eliminating nuelnar wPapons. "I am very slwious about running for prnsidPnt. but .Jane doesn't want mn to do it.," tho f'lamboyant founder of CNN rPportndly told sevl'ral mnmbers ol' the Nuclear i\gP I'Par.P Foundation. i\r.cording to tlw magazirw. Fonda loft tlw door open to a Turrwr r.ampaign, saying, "wlwrever Ted goPs. I go." 
African activist dies 
NEW YOHK 
1\wanw Tun•. who as Stoknly Carmichael made· thn phrasp "black pownr" a rallying t'ry of thP l'ivil rights uplwavals ol' the I <)(>Os, diPd Sunday in c;uinna, a mnmbPr of Turn's i\11-i\l"rit'an l'ooplt>'s HPvolutionary !'arty said. liP was ;,7, Sharon Sobukwe, a member or tlw organization in l'hiladelphia, said Ture dil'd or prostate !:a!H'Pr. Slw learned ol' his dPath from Amadou l.y. an AAI'HP member and OliO or Ttll'l~ 's doSPSt friends, who was with him wlwn hn dind. Tho Hnv. Jnssn . Jackson said h1• visitml with Tun) thrnn timc)S at his homt' in Cuinea during a trip to Africa last wonk. "In many ways lw was at peace with himsnll'." .Jackson said in a telephone int<H'vinw from Washington. "lin wanted for his last days to be in Guirwa and in Wnst i\l"rira.... lin wanted to lw amongst the peo­pll' ol' Africa." 
lifUIII'i!ltiWbUIW 
Dow 
AMEX: 668.36
JONES 
+ 1.48 
Nasdaq:
891 .59 

1847.99 
-.3.07 
NYSE: 556.17 
+3.61 
S&P 500: 1125.72 

Composite
7.15 
Volume: 
+89.85 691 ,020,000 VOI.liME LEADERS 
11Udl'4~~· nnuK 'Hirll4t:IUi~ sli41rll I'Hirl MliJIAON! ldH lUI' UMl, +tl.H2 +0..-112~ JH.:IIZS t"llliiHllti'INC CIT ·I.H2 .o..sooo 27.0000 \AHWAV INC swv ·h.IJ.~ -.l.K12S S1.1K7S I TfHiROliP INC CCI •U2 + I..\12S 4.Li7.SO ~'<l.'< .:".II'.Kl'AISMf.~T rox +0.26 +0.0625 24.1250 
t .t 1MI'1\l~ ( OMI'lJTEH Cl'(1 -0.92 -0 . .112-' :U.S62S Ml< HUN l'llll MU -S.21J -2.~0(){) 44.7500 /'IIIII/' MOHHI\ MO +IUS +0.1H6S 54.0625 Nl'\ICOI!\1(' I'EI' + \.~., +1.5000 .w.sooo I'AIH.NC. IH'\Hi~ lllN + l,IJH +1.125(} 21J ..t750 
•IRAQ 
Iraq claims victory in U.N. crisis 
ASSOCIATED PRESS  
BAGHDAD  
After backing down over U.N.  
weapons inspections ­and narrowly  
avoiding an American missile strike  
-Iraq in typical fashion Sunday  
deelared itself the victor in the dis­ 
pute.  
Vice President Taha Yassin  
Ramadan told state-run television  
that Iraq had been able "to prove to  
the whole world that our views are  
correct" and that the Amf)ricans  
were misguided.  
"This is the foundation and the  
basis of our victory," he declared.  
It was the first official reaction to  
the weekend's tumultuous events,  
and the rhetoric obviously was for  
local consumption in a country weary  
of U.N. sanctions and of being isolat­ 
ed. even from its Arab neighbors.  
The newscast made no mention of  
President Clinton's warning Sunday  
that if Iraq does not abide by its  
promise to allow tJ.N. weapons teams  
to come back and work freely, it will  
suffer a military attack.  
"Iraq has backed down," Clinton  
declared in a news confereneo at tho  
White House. ''But that is not enough.  
Now Iraq must live up to its obliga­ 
tions."  
He said U.S. forces would stay in  
the Gulf and warned: ''We remain  
ready to act."  
Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz  
criticized Clinton's vow that the  
American government is committed  
to replacing Saddam's regime in  
Iraq.  
"I have to condemn strongly the  
statement of Mr. Clinton, the plans of  
his government to overthrow tho gov­ 
ernment of Iraq," Aziz said in an AFP Photo  
interview on CNN. ''This is a flagrant Citizens pack Ba11hdad stadium to celebrate Baghdad Day, which came in conjunc­ 
violation of the Socurity Council reso­tion with an ease tn the tensions regarding missile inspections.  
lutions as well as international law."  
Aziz said he would not comment on  Secretary-General Kofi Annan, the  overseeing the elimination of Iraq's  
whether the crisis was over since the  deputy prime minister said.  weapons of mass destruction.  
Security Council was still debating it.  "Iraq does not accept any further  Iraq on Saturday notified Annan  
"Whether this is going to end the cur·  conditions," he added, but the resolu­ that it had rovorsod its docision. But  
rent crisis is up to the belligerents  tion and agreement with Annan  the United States -which called ofT  
who aro saber rattling," he said,  appeared to cover Clinton's demands  an attack at the 1lth hour to study  
referring to U.S. and British threats  for complete access for the inspectors  Iraq's statmnont -did not acenpt it  
to attack.  and full Iraqi cooperation with them.  until Sunday, when Washington was  
Iraq would allow tho U.N. arms  The United States and Britain  assured by the Iraqi regime that  
inspectors to do their normal work  hogan building up their forces after  thor!) were no conditions attached.  
under Security Council resolutions  Iraq suspended cooperation last  Washington had complainnd that a  
and the understanding tb<~t Aziz  month with the U.N. Special  two-page annex to Aziz's letter to  
signed in February with U.N.  Commission, which is chm·ged with  Annan amounted to conditions.  

Incident raises concern over Kosovo 
ASSOCIATED PRESS Ethnic Albanian leaders, independence, while Serbs Americans and an ethnie who have rejected several consider Kosovo an inte­Albanian translator was PBISTINA such invitations in the gral part of Serbia, tho near Dulje, 22 miles south­Western officials raised past, made no immediate dominant republic of west of' tho provincial capi­new .concerns about the response to the offer by Yugoslavia. tal, Pristina, when it safety of peace monitors in Serbian President Milan Scattered violence has encountered an army col­Kosovo after Yugoslav sol­Milutinovic, made late continued despite an Oct. umn coming the otlwr way. diers fired a machinn gun Saturday and reported by 12 agreement in which As the ear passed, an Sunday over a car contain­state media on Sunday. Yugoslav President army vehiele equipped ing U.S. diplomatic But the latnst invitation, Slobodan Milosevic pledged with a heavy machine gun observers. following a flurry of U.S.­to halt his offensive and fired a burst overhead, 
The incident, which led diplomacy, could signal start talks aimed at restor­OSCE spokesman Duncan caused no injuries, came at that the Serbs and ethnic ing Kosovo's autonomy. Bullivant said. a time of' rising hopes for Albanians are closer to The shooting incident on Serb and Yugoslav progress toward a settle­direct negotiations. Sunday prompted the authorities gave no imme­mont that would end A Serb crackdown on Organization for Sncurity diate explanation for the months of' violence in the ethnic Albanian separatists and Cooperation in Europe incident, but Bullivant said restive Serbian province. that started in February to demand an explanation the observers' car was 
Serb authorities, has left hundreds dead, from Serb and Yugoslav clearly identifiable as attempting a new initia­mostly Albanian civilians, authorities. belonging to the diplomatic tive, invited ethnic and made refugees of hun­A spokesman said a car mission. Its bright orange Albanian separatists to dreds of thousands more. from the Kosovo color and lettering are hold l'aco-to-f'ace talks this The province's ethnic Diplomatic Observers unique to vehicles of the week. Albanian majority favors Mission containing three Kosovo observer mission. 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, November 16, l 998 

acar that actually runs, and reality is waiting for you just around the next bend. 
You've come far. But you've got a lot further to go. Thats where SONY Technology Center comes in. 
Ifyou're a junior or senior majoring in engineering, consider a career at Sony. We Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-the perfect -sized city, with countless cultural events and a great tradition of winning sports teams. 
Forward your resume to your school's placement office. Or, contact a 
offer a competitive salary, fantastic benefits, graduate school tuition reimbursement 1001 Technology Drive, and the opportunity to Mt. Pleasant, PA 15666, work for a dynamic, Attn: Professional growing, Fortune 500 Staffing, or apply company. 
You'll be challenged jobs_Pittsburgh every day on your @ccmail.sgo. job. You'll have sony.com opportunity for advancement. And you'll be working SONY 
SONY TECHNOLOGY

in a great place, 
CENTER 

just outside 

Monday, November 16, 1997 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
• TECHNOLOGY BEAT 
Notre Dame works to dispell Y2K problems 

By LAURA ROMPF Advisory Services. News Writer "Overall the University is 
'IRRMLY BELIEVE THAT

working hard to identify its In ordnr to tackle the Y2K exposure to the Year 2000 THE ENTIRE UNIVERSITY computer prohlem, Notre related problems," Anthony 
COMMUNITY IS AFFECTED BY

Damn has formed a "Year said. "I firmly believe that the 2000 Projnct." The project has entire University community is THE YEAR 2000 ISSUES. (T compiled an inventory of sys­affected by the Year 2000 
IS CRITICAL THAT THE ••• l.r.lrns at risk, while establishing issues. It is critical that the COMMUNITY BECOMES

lna(krship and accountability entire community becomes programs. aware of' the risks and how AWARE OF THE RISKS.' 
The OITice of Informational they can assist in the effort," Technologies WIT) has dnvel­she said. op!HI personal i znd software Anthony explained that the KA TIILEEN ANTHONY with four-digit codes so it will challenges !'acing Notre DIRECTOR OF AUDIT AND not hn alTectml. Dame's Year 2000 Pmject arc 
ADVISORY SERV/Cl;'S 

The University is also bring­not unique. ing in 1~xternal assistance to "The University of Notre aid the lead1wship team on the Dame's concerns arc similar to tions," said Anthony. "Notre proj1~1~l. said Kathlnen those faced by other large, Dame's operations, both acad­Anthony. dirnl'lor of Audit and technology-driven organiza-emic and administrative, are 
ATTENTION GOVERNMENT MAJORS! 
NOW is the tin1e to apply for a Sprin~ 99 Government Internship! 
Sign up for an interview_ & pick up an application In 217 O'Shaughnessy. 
For more information call 631-8248 


invites you to: 
~©\W lf@ lP~$$ lflXI~ ~r?D\ mA~ ~ Speaker: 
-·-··-) 
\ Sob Pofloc:~. epA. MiA 
) 1'.L~$~j()//l(~~
-----tn Wednesday, Nov. 18, 1998 8:30p.m. on the 1st Floor Montgomery Theater LaFortune Student Center 
RA"L~for l~!t'J Vooc!J~r lowsrllllll1iDI)! Re,eiYt! FRG~ 6D/ff+'llrt! "~"~" rt!tislraliDIJ! PIZZA! 
T~ lfUH'e iiJf(}r-'kJ~: ~CNJI«f ~IIIXiy IIQ/Ii!J$ (}r TINY.Af~,.~ !J11.-69f9 (}, m~~1t:JJ 
highly automated." 
Computer hardware, soft­ware and applications used by faculty, staff and students could work improperly or fail, as could the equipment used in research and teaching, Anthony said. 
Facilities and utilities will also be affected. 
"I see this as the most criti­cal," Anthony said. "Without certain operations, the campus cannot function at all." 
Notre Dame depends on its own power plant and could be harshly effected by the Year 2000 problem. Utility systems such as security, fire safety and food services may also be at risk, Anthony explained. 
"I believe the most important aid to combat this problem is communication and recogni­tion of the signifieanee of the issues facing our world," Anthony said. "Governments, organizations and individuals need to understand what the Year 2000 problem is and how it may impact them." 

Some view the Year 2000 issue as an isolated computer problem that will never affect them, but it is probable that everyone will be affected in some way. Understanding the issue is key to minimizing thn impact it will have, Anthony said. 
"Because of this automation and inter-reliancn, no onn can accurately predict the depth and breadth of the problems the turn of the century may bring," Anthony said. 
· Prof studies 
::~:~BJ.::. '; 

bas·eball salaries 
Seedal ro The Observer 

Major League Baseball teams in pursuit of Handy Johnson. Bernie Williams. Kevin Brown and other marquee fre<:l agtmts should avoid paying these stars significantly more than other players, according to a new study by a Notre Dame researcher. 
Matt Bloom, assistant professor of management. round that baseball teams with wider pay ranges had poorer on-field and rmancial performances than those with relatively equal salary structures. The won-loss recol'ds, final standings, attendance, gate receipts, total ineome and franchise values all were worse for teams with more unbalanced pay distribution. 
~k 


To study at the School oflnternational and Public Affairs is to arrive where the world's pathways oflearning, policy, and action converge.  
At SIPA, Columbia University connects in countless ways with New York City, and with economic and political net­works that span the globe.  
Learn about our two degree  Here, guided by distinguished scholars and policy professionals, tomorrow's leaders train for responsible action.  
programs  

MASTER OF PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
MASTER OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS Call (212) 854-6216 sipa__admission@columbia.edu 
www.columbia.edu/cu/sipa 

~---------~--~ 
--------~----------~­

VIEWPOINT 
pageS-------------------------------------------------os~ERVER -------------------------------Monday, November 16, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EJ>ITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER... . .. Bryan lutz VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER... .. .. Brett Hue! at SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lope>. SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS.. .. ....... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER .................. Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ....................... Kevin Dalum 
The= Observer is the indepcndem newspaper published by the students nf the University otNorre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It docs not necosarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as pos.-.ible. Unsigned editorials reprcsenr the opinion ofthe majority of the Editor-in-Chic:{ Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor and depanmc:nt editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presenr the views of the aurhors, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available w all members of the Notre pame/Saim Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 

!hro\Jgh lencrs is encouraged. Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editor/ Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising News/Photo 631-53B Systems Sports 631-4543 Fax Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
What the Administration Doesn't Want You to Know-
I have been following The Observer's coverage of the debate over the alleged discrimination of lesbians and gays on campus; specifically, the protection which would be secured with the inclusion of "sexual orientation" in the University's non-discrimination clause. It is impor­tant that the Academic Council is investi­gating the allegations of discrimination in hiring made by Dr. Woo. 
What is unfortunate is that all of this research and its results arc being kept a secret. Conceivably, the whole issue could be debated behind closed doors and the campus community might never discover the findings. After all, it is the exception rather than the rule at Notre Dame that all committees which meet at the behest 
'Now You MAY NOT AGREE WITH THE 
GAY RIGHTS CAUSE, BUT IF 
CENSORSHIP AND DISCRIM­
INATION CAN HAPPEN TO 
ANYONE, IT CAN HAPPEN 
TO YOU.' 
of Malloy or Warner be sworn to secrecy. 
Well, I know for a fact that neither Dr. Woo's allegations nor the Big Ten deci­sion are the only issues about which the campus community is being kept in the dark. 
Last spring, the unrecognized alumni group, GALA-ND/SMC (the Gay and Lesbian Alumnilac of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's College, 750 members strong) gave a $1600 scholarship to then­junior Mark Massoud (one of your student representatives to the Board of Trustees this year), toward his study of civil rights and equal rights in South Africa. His friends know he spent his summer abroad ... did you? 
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 

Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
Both last spring and again this fall, GALA-ND/SMC attempted to purchase advertising space in The Observer to announce that Mark was the scholarship recipient. The trouble is, the Notre Dame administration would not allow GALA­ND/SMC to buy advertising space. Not then, not ever, the group has been told. 
This message was conveyed by the newspaper's editor, after consultation with and clarification by Matt Cullinan ­then Executive Assistant to President Malloy. Cullinan, for­merly the liai­son between The Observer and the admin­istration, explained that GALA-ND/SMC "does not have the right" to advertise on campus because it has "close ties to GLND/SMC." Now, there's a good reason. 
In short, the Malloy/Warner administration will not allow a charitable orga­nization (501(c)(3) sta­tus) formed by its own alumni, which awarded a scholarship based upon a service pro­ject, to purchase advertising space in an "independent" newspaper. A newspaper which, by the way, charges you an annual fee. I'm sure there is a reason given in du Lac, but the whole thing reeks of censor­ship, homophobia and first amendment violations to me. 
Now you may not agree with the gay rights cause, but if censorship and dis­crimination can happen to anyone, it can happen to YOU. And don't you see the parallel between the way in which GALA­ND/SMC is treated, and the fact that you never see a multi-column paid advertise­ment for GLND/SMC or OUTreach NO in The Observer? That is because this stu­dent group is not permitted to advertise, either. 
In written correspondence from the administration, GLND/SMC was told repeatedly through the years that they could not publish their name in any ad, ean buy an ad in The Observer today. I wonder if the Feminist Collective is able to? 

Did you know this blatant censorship was taking place? Of course not ... The Observer is not allowed to tell you. They have to go along with the rules or risk being threatened by the administration. 
Clearly this is wrong. 
Unfortunately, it is only the tip of the iceberg concerning censorship on cam­pus. Imagine how the priests in charge 
must deal with Notre 

Dame Magazine ... after all, the precious alumni donors and your own parents read that. 
Doesn't this make you angry? Aren't you bright enough to read about issues and inci­dents and make deci­sions for yourself? Aren't you, as future alumni, coneernnd that current alumni am being treated this way'? The administration will deny it, but you know it's true. 
This University is sup­posed to lead the way in Christian values, human rights and sensitivity to the oppressed. If they hide what they don't want people to see, then I suppose it looks like they do. 
Un_til this administra­tion stops cnnsorship and prevents dis­crimination, Our Lady will hang ller !wad in shame. Hather than being the stellar example for all, Malloy and Warner have made the current Notre Dame a disgrace to its founding father-as well as to the Father of us all. 
Elizabeth Conrad South Rend, Ind. November 12, 1998 
... 
• DOONESBURY 
SUR&.ICOM&8Y PHIPHAT­
PJ&'J<E-lH/3. ON­
l-Y I?I<Y HOU5f; CWCAMPU!3. I 

nor could they use a logo or even the same format in any advertisement, because to do so would imply that they existed. Isn't that ridiculous? But these are the lengths to which the current administration will go. 
So what does "independent newspaper" mean, anyway? And how about the lofty "Spirit of Inclusion?" As far as censorship is concerned, it is still the status quo. Neither GALA-ND/SMC nor OUTreach ND 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
NO At..caiOU' /A/t/.1-, I I UK£ THE 71-KJUGHT SaJNP Of= YOU IY116HT. 
THAT.1 I I 

• QuOTE OF THE DAY 
'prejudice is the child of ignorance.' 
-William Hazlitt 

·--------------------~~--------------------------· 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 16, 1998 os~£RvER ----------------------------------------------page9 
• CAPPY's CORNER Megan and Marnie In helwt11m thoughts of term papers, 1\JOtball bowl specula­tion and tho upcoming l'roz!'tl tundra souson, tak1>. some time to give thought to your parents. A doznn of my Notre Dame classmates have=!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!=!!!!!!!!=====!!!!!!!!=!!!!! children in the Class of 2002, so I feel a conneetion,Cappy by proxy, to the studnnt body. We old geezers may seem irrelevantGagnon and out of toueh. but we arc very _____:=======----proud of all the aer:omplishments ol'thn studtHlts at Not.rn Danw, St. Mary's and Holy Cross, Pven though WP may shuddnr at flying oetopus and other occasional intPmpPralf1 bt\havior. l']pase realize that most of our parental conr.orn is based upon fp;u· that our children will repeat the mistak11s we have madP. l·:wry l'athPr is proud of' his rhildrcn. but fortunately. I have a 1~olumn to brag about my two kids. Mngan (25) and Marnie !2:{1 havo nar.h hit home!·uns as daughters. Neither has over given mp tv.·o minutes of lost sleep-I'm sure I have been nHH'h rnon' of an annoyance to tlu~m than they have been to me. Sorry, girls. Megan inhPritPd at least two traits from me: She enjoys writing and slw can't hit a baseball very well. She gave Little l.oaguo Baseball a try, when we lived in Los Angeles, as ono of only two girls in an eight-team league. I was pressed into sP.rvlce as the lPam 's first base eoach. where I had the plea­sum of watching Megan and the othor kids work to improve as tho srason wore on. I particulat'ly enjoyed watching the inl!~raetion of the several nationalities and ethnic back­grounds represented (if only all the world's ehildrnn eould play baseball together!). By the end of the year, Mogan had work<'d herself up from 15th player (last) to the starting right liPlder on thP learn which finished one half game out of first place. · The baseball highlight of tho year came when Megan scored hPr first run. As she sped, glader-like, into home plate (third inlwritnd trait: slownnss afoot), tnars ofjoy streamed down her far.o {and also down tho checks of tlw first base coach). The humorous highlight of her diamond career came when I informnd M11gan that shn earned an HBI, on a ground ball, with a runner on third. She ran over to the bench to tell her tnammates "I got an HBI". She then ran back to me: "Dad,' what's an HBI?" bttl~t·. whiltl I was working in law tml'orcornent, Megan joinnd a l'olicc Explorer Post. Sho quickly became one of the stars, leading her platoon at the StatH Academy and being the top porformer at poJiC(l special event..<;. This was quite an accomplishment in a boy-dominated program. Megan also handled herself in a very pwfessional manner when she bHcame a police cadet, in charge of "vttctl.tion home security checks." Marnie has the same strong work ethic as Megan. Marnie is a very sweet child. She became a vegetarian when she real· ized that a stoak used to be a cow and bacon used to be a pig. Even from her earliest days, if Marnie were offered a cookie, she would immediately ask "Can l give one to Megan?" Marnie has a great singing voice (no credit to her dad). My favorite gift from hor is an audio tape she made, singing me several songs. She made the tape at a time I was traveling on business and missed the girls very much. It still means a lot to me. My favorite humorous Marnie-story occurred when I sug~ gested that she have a slumber party for her playmates. She mn to her neighbor's house saying "We're going to have, a slumber party!" A few minutes later, she came back asking me "What's a slumber party?" , Megan and Marnio havt) both done well in the area which scares all dads to death. They each married good guys (Jay and David), who treat them well. Megan has an 18-month old named Huntnr li call him "Hunter tho Punter," but he looks more like "Hunter the Nose Taekle"). Sho has a second child !a quartE-rback or shorl'itop?l coming in April. Mamie works in the dreulation departnwnt of a publk library, where she receives glowing evaluations from her supervisors. I enjoy playing board games with her, espeeially when I see that I can no longer take for grant~1d that I will win. Both my girls are on e-mail, so it's fun to banter back and forth with them. The message of this piece is that you can never tell which life events will mean something to your parents. While our generation Is slipping oil' into it..'l dotage, take a few minutes to drop a note or make a call home. You'll be a parent too, someday. Cappy Gagnon. the proud parent/writer ofthis piece, is a 1966 Notre Dame graduate. He serves as Coordinator of Stadium Personnel, superoising Stadium Gate checking for marshmallows and seafood. His column appears euery other Monday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer.  • lETTER TO THE EDITOR A Closed Mind Does Not Make A Christian Heart '··:·: . ~-­:''~'.' ''l':/.:·'kJI1't'..&Jll'¥!:.' • ) . ..' .... ­. ~.... ·~­... _t ..~"­.• ..... ' I .I !. As a student at this University, I take offense to euery man, woman and child; not only Catholics. every word in Soan Vinck's Nov. 10 article (The Hepublicans, lleterosnxuals, Whites, Blaeks but "Nasty Little Feminist Enelave" Debate everyone. Continues). I resent your implication that exposure to Your opinion, Sean, of the Women's Resource opposing views will destroy God in my life. GOD Center is at the very least misogynistic, egocen­HAS NOT MADE NOTHE DAME TilE KEEPEH OF tric and misguided. The WHC is providing a ser­MY SOUL. lie gave me free will to choosn who vice that was once denied but much needed (and and what I will be. This school is but one stop still is) for women: accurate and complete infor­along my road of faith. You ask li>r "openness to mation about issues dealing with women. They religious voeations" but what about opennoss also provide a place where someone ean go to and aeeeptance of your fellow man simply gain guidance, so they gave the number to an because God asks it of you? You' ask for abortion counselor. Would you rather they tried "Christian fidelity" when I have yet to find any in to eounsel the girl themselves instead of refer­your words. You advor.ate "docility to tho moral ring her to a trained individual? teachings of the Chureh," I advor.ated doeility to It may not be pleasant to acknowledge, but the moral teaehings of Christ. there is a need for information about abortions The University's role is to provide me with the and contraception on this campus, just like any means to further my education. As a Catholic other University (no matter how religious). These institution, this school's role is to provide me women are not telling students to have sex or with the means to further my faith if I choose not abortions. They are providing much-needed if they ehoose it for mo. They are not here to information so students can make dedsions mold me into a hypoeritieal being incapable of aware of all the facts and options available to living in harmony with others. There is always a them. common ground in this world ... it's r.alled love. Your desire to censure the information avail­As to your proposals, do you honestly believe able is no better than the separate but equal pol­that anyone with any intelligence does not stHJ icy that sought to deny blacks the means to bet­that your real purpose for suggesting resignation ter educate themselves. As far as their advocat­as a form of protest is to remove all those that ing gay rights, they have my support and eom­think or believe diiTcrnntly than you? It's not as mendation. As a hetorosoxual, I know what a permanent as Hitler's method, but the thought privilege it is to be accepted as a part of the eomes from the same kind of closed mind. No mainstream of society; as an African-Ameriean I one has asked you to withdraw from the can sympathize with anyone judged or punished University to publicize your disapproval of the for something as basic as sexuality. "secularism" pervading campus life. Your second As a Christian and a Catholic, I am very tired of suggestion is just as insightful as the first: ofTor those that stand behind religious doctrine to hide more money to teachers that will edit and a bigoted face. Without the voicing of opinions change history or their politics, etc. until they lit (agreeing with and disagreeing with Catholicism) your views. no person truly makes a full faith dedsion to be Next I suppose you'll suggest lynching those Catholic, faith unchallenged is faith nonexistent. that do not conform to your rules or burning This is an institution of learning, not of indoe­books that eontradict your viewpoint. This trination. The Church may have a plan for the University has greater problems in need of atten­Catholic. University, but God? When did God ever tion. Spoon-feeding the "children" their opinions exclude someone from his loving grace? Jesus should not be it's foremost concern. ministered to the poor, down-trodden and oppressed not the rich and satisfied. Who are you to interpret the Bible for all Catholics? My Rhonda Moore Bible says love your neighbor as you love your­Senior, ofT-campus self. My Bible says judge not lest you bo judged. English and government major My Bible tells me to look for the face of God in November I 2, 1998  


Who are you, Joe Black? 
"Meet Joe Black" 
Director: Martin Brest 
Starring: Brad Pitt, Anthony Hopkins, Claire Forlani, Marcia Gay Harden and]e./frey Tambor 

(Out of five shamrocks) 
By MIKE MCMORROW 
Scene Movie Critic 
Martin Brest's oddly intriguing but often unsuccessful "Meet Joe Black" takes on a lot of weight with its subject matter and presentation. It mixes death with romance, fantasy with message and triteness with genuineness. It is particu­larly difficult to evaluate because it is attractive to its audience in many ways. But it may also fail due 
begins to hear a voice {like the voice in "Field of Dreams," a more success­ful film that can neverthe­less be used to draw a lot of interesting compar­isons) that is asking him the "hard questions." Of course, a man of such success attempts to be a diplomat by trying to han­dle the situation, but this is one he can not. 
One day at dinner, the voice tells him there is someone at the door, and sure enough there is someone there. The per-

to overly ambitious and They walk out bad ideas that are and the next more or less dead on thing we know 
arrival. the guy is· 
The film stars crushed by a Anthony Hopkins as car and killed. 
William Parrish, an Susan does not enormously successful see this. founder of a large com­Sure enough, 
munications firm, who Death embod­is approaching age 65. ies the young 
His oldest daughter suitor, both of Allison is head-set on whom,. of throwing him the party course, are of the century -con­played by Brad gressmen, senators, Pitt. 
That is the

friends and a lot Of Photo courtesy of Universal excess and glitter. But Claire Forlani (with Pitt) in "Meet Joe Black." setup, and not in the meantime, he · surprisingly, 

By RICHARD CRIBB 
Scene Movie Critic 
A romantic dinner setting in an expen­sive Manhattan restaurant, a cluster of well-to-do patrons, a wealthy doctor and his beautiful wife begin "Living Out Loud," the directorial debut of screenwriter Richard LaGravanese ("The Fisher King," "The Bridges of Madison County.") Within minutes that picturesque landscape will become as gray as the Notre Dame cam­pus during the winter. Judith Nelson (Holly Hunter) is dumped by her husband !Martin Donovan) for a younger woman. 
Juxtaposed with Judith's predicament is the heartbreaking plight of a father whose daughter is dying in a hospital. Helpless to do anything to palliate his daughter's con­dition, Pat (Danny DeVito) attempts to pay a nurse to keep an eye on his daughter. Dryly amusing scenes such as those give this film its merit. 
Alone and depressed after the divorce, Judith is given to introspective musings. Her real-life purgatory is juxtaposed with flashes of fantasy acted out on the screen. 
Shortly after her husband leaves her, son is played by Brad Pitt, and he literally calls himself Death. He tells William that it is his job to show Death the ways of his life. When Death leaves, of course, William would go with him. That is the deal they make, leaving William little choice. 
Prior to this meeting, in a coffee shop, Susan, William's youngest daughter met a young suitor and was swept away by 
his charms. 

"Living Out Loud" 
Director: Richard LaGravenese Starring: Holly Hunter, Danny De Vito, Queen Latifah and Martin Donovan 
(Out of five shamrocks) 
Edith Wharton's "House of Mirth." She imagines jumping out of the win­dow, killing herself,. her ex-husband and his new wife as she lands on them. At night, Judith fre­
•quents an Upper east side nightclub where Uz Bailey (Queen Latifah) performs regularly. Sitting alone and drunk while attempt­ing to drown her sorrow, Judith loudly vocalizes her thoughts during a perfor­
mance. 
Liz consoles her and a friendship develops. They commiserate with each 

other over their problems with men. Liz's problem: she is in love with a 
gay co-worker who cannot return her romantic affection. 
After his daughter's death, Pat begins working as a lowly elevator operator/doorman in the apartment building where Judith lives. An encounter between them on the elevator leads to a soul-baring conversa­tion about his daughter's death. Dumped by his wife, having lost his only child and bearing heavy gambling debts, Pat earns our sympathy immediately as well as Judith's. In a touching con­versation about his deceased daughter, Pat says, "There are things inside you that never come out, and then they come out in your kids." · 
Pat sees in Judith just the sort of woman he is looking for. Her sensitive and inviting demeanor contrasts sharply with the chilly and materialistic Susan is quite astounded when Death {introduced and referred to by everyone as Joe Black) becomes such an immediate part of her father's life. Their relationship is a business deal, as everyone tells them­selves or just assumes. 
But Joe is having an impact on every part of William's life by just being there -his business, his rela­

There are also a lot of problems with the setup. Although a lot of really good acting makes the movie often watchable and likable, the idea of Death personified is awkward. 
What kind of religious or theological message is this sending? I am wa:ry of Christianizing this, so I will not, but one 

tionship with his family, his mentality. 
Who is Joe Black? That seems to be the question put to the audience as well as the characters in the film. 
Anthony Hopkins is won­derfully convincing as a high-level and well-inten­tioned capitalist. He is never anything less than genuine in portraying a man who has been put in what appears to be a com­

... Photo courtesy of Universal 
pletely irrational and cer-Anthony Hopkins and Brad Pitt star in "Meet Joe Black." 
tainly bizarre situation. In fact, he gives credit to a situation in which few actors could have given credit. 
Brad Pitt is credible and often very funny as Joe Black, and it is interesting to see the contrast between Joe and the young dasher that he was in the coffee shop. But the relationship that develops between Joe and Susan (yes, romance is involved as the trailer told us all) is not really founded upon anything, and has no real motivation. . 
The relationship between William and Joe is much more intriguing, as is Hopkins' way of finding the right: mood and tone for a man who is looking death straight in the eye. There was a consis­tent desire to have. the movie to either turn Joe into that dasher that Pitt was in the coffee shop if the romance was to persist, or leave the romancn out all together and concentrate on Hopkins' character. 

can imagine the implications of reading this in such a way. It would have been enough to simply use a fantastical method of forcing William to realize the imminence of his death without having to personify death. 
Ultimately. "Meet Joe Black" seems confused about its message. William's realization is genuine and interesting, and how he treats his life after such a realization is neither cheap nor overly maudlin. But too many unanswered ques­tions can be raised about the nature behind the relationship between Susan and Joe, which creates confusion about the movie's cohesive purpose and the meaning behind the structure of the story. 
It is a relief that actors like Hopkins and Pitt could pull such a confused conception out of a rut and give it a certain credibili­ty, and perhaps even a hint of truth. 
'Living out loud' struggles to stay alive 
Despite his disarming openness, however, Judith is not immediately attracted to him in a romantic way. The rest of the film fol­lows their relationship and keeps the viewer wondering whether it will turn romantic. 
Although LaGravanese uses some cre­ative artistic devices (filmed flights of fancy, verbalized thoughts), the film is too slowly-paced to grab the viewer's atten­tion and sustain it for the length of the film. Much of it centers around lengthy conversations between two people, yet the dialogue in general lacks the kind of witti­ness that should characterize such a film. 
Queen Latifah is this film's greatest asset. She radiates energy in every scene she is seen. Seeing her for the first time in this film, one would never suspect that she began her career as a rap artist. Her sonorous voice upstages any of the dia­


logue found in the film. 
Danny DeVito continues his string of 
wonderfully versatile performances. 
Whether playing a greedy, conniving 
creep or a disheartened elevator opera­
tor, he always remains convincing. 
Holly Hunter is gritty and intelligent in 
a role that requires her to play a sullen 
character in one scene and a vibrant 
vixen in the next. Her personal trainer 
must be congratulated. Ms. Hunter 
exhibits better biceps than Linda 
Hamilton in "Terminator 2." 
But these strong performances do not 
completely make up for the slow pace. . Ultimately, "Living Out Loud" is a film that pushes its performers to a level that hurts the cohesiveness of the plot and leaves the 
movie dying silently. 
she is seen sitting alone in bed reading nature of his former wife. Photo courtesy of New Line Cinema
Danny DeVito (left) and Holly Hunter star in "Living Out Loud." 

IRISH INSIDER 11' vs. 


Monday. November I(), 1998 ----
page I 
CROSSING ENEMY LINES 
By KATIILEEN LOPEZ 
Sports I· .litor 
Notrl' llalllP did not unlnash a secn•t wnapon on Saturday. 
It l'lllll«' out with th1• sanw artillery and eaught Navy with its guards down. Tlw Irish rushing attack downPd llw Midshipnwn dn!'Pnsn, gaining 261 yards primarily ofT thl' pf'forts of snnior tailhaek Autry llPnson and sPnior quartnrhack .Jarious Jackson. 
"WI' knPw Navy rould givn us a fight bneausn llu•y'rn thn typ«' of LPam that gons down till the end," .Jackson said. "But WI' ddinitPly wantnd to come out and makP a statPnwnt." 
Fans got a ran~ glimps1~ at Lhn thrnat of Jackson's tnw spPPd and 1·ushing capability at Jack Kent Cooke stadium in front of a rneord crowd. llis :~:~-yard run in tlw SI'COIHf quartPr gavn Notrn Damn only a few sPconds of somPthing tlwy havn hnPn wailing for all yPar. 
A q uarlrH·hack that was not afraid to run the ball. llis 71 yards on thn ground ranw only second to the top rushr•r on tl11• tPam and now all-LimP lnading rushPr in NotrP llanw history, llnnson. 
Tlw trun story of tlw game rnstnd with Notrn Damp's rushing wnapon. llis quiet and relativPiy tamt• styiP hintPd nothing at tlw tailback's dominance in llw rPcord hooks. 
On f'irst-and-tl'n on tlw Notre Damn 28-yard liiW, llPnson took tlw hand-ofT and ran for 7 yards and into thn Lop spot as Notre Damn's all tinw rushing IPadl'r. If is I07-yard pr~rformancn against the Midshipml'n dPthronnd fornwr lr•adnr Allnn Pinkett. 
"Any limP you ran shut a tnam out whose oiTm1se is as prolific as Navy. it's a hug1~ ac1:omplishment," !wad r·oach Bob Davin said. "Wn'n~ nxeited to be 8­1." 
To tlw crowd, tlw milnsto1w wPnl. rPiatively unno­til'l•d. An unfamiliar rrowd. an unfamiliar stadium but a familiar JH'rformaneP highlightnd Saturday's win. I>PspitP all tlw hoopla which surrounds the rr•sprvnd I>Pnson, lw always givns 1:rndit wlwre credit is duP. 
"Tlw grrmtPst thing about this rr~cord is that it is a tPam rPr:ord. somPthing wn ean all share," Davie said. ''I'm fortunatn to hav1~ a east likn I do." 
Thn tailhark not only gairwd his 22nd 100-yard­plus gaml' hut racknd up two lllOI'I! touchdowns in pursuit of yl'l anot.Iwr Pinkdt n~r:ord, all-tinw rush­ing touchdown. llis first touchdown, lw broke free and daslwd down thP IPI't sidP untourhnd. llis touch­down put tlw Irish up 14-0. 
lfis sPrond tolll·hdown canll' in till' third quarter on an I X-yard hrPakaway run. Kicknr .Jim Sanson lined up for tlw point al'ter attnmpt hut failnd. leaving the scor1• at 20-0. 
Tlw first scorn of tlw ganw came on a smashmouth run up thn middln by .Iamie Spnnr.er. l11~ rumbled into thl' nndzonn and notrlwd thn l'irst points for the Irish. 
.Jackson rarkPd up impn~ssive numbers in Saturday's shutout not only on thP ground but in the air as WI'IL liP romplntnd 12 of 14 for 1r>CJ yards. llis longPst r·omplPtion of tlw day camn on a 25-yard pass lo Bobby Brown in tlw second quarll•r. 
Tlw third quartnr rnmains a stronghold for the ever im proving Irish. Thny rPgistnrnd tlw sixth shutout for thn Irish del'nnsP. Besidns tlw dt!!'nnse, the rnturn tPam got a shot in the arm on .Jony Cntherall's rPturn. !lis (,S-yard seampnr to the Navy 20 eventual­ly sd up the .Jackson to Malcolm Johnson touchdown. ThP Ih-yard rPr:eption boostnd the !Pad to 27 with a quart.l'r il'ft to play. 
Not to Ill' outdonn hy tlw ofTensivn unit. the defense got its knocks in tlw fourth. ILl. Scott wr.ovnrcd Navy quartPrbark Brian Broadwater's fumbln on the Navy 4S. In thP SI'COJHI dtd'Pnsivl' Sl'ri1~s frnshman Tony Weaver ravaged the Navy defense taking down majority of the hand-niTs, induding a 6-yard dash to Broadwater for a loss of four yards. the Navy 45. Backup quarl!~rbar.k Erie Chappnll got 

"The dnl'nnse played extremnly hard." Davie said. some time in the fourth with freshman Anwz Battin "They also took advantage of some turnovers in the still nursing a shoulder injury. gamn. They created some turnovers as well." This game went along like dor.kwork for thn Irish 
Davin inl!Jgrated a lot of Notre Dame's up-and-com­ing talnnt in the fourth quarter. Tony Fisher took a see GAME/ page 3 
mJOTE OF THE GAME STAT OF THE GAME
PLAYER OF THE GAME 
"I told our team to let it sink in for a second 
Senior quarterback Jarious Jackson eomplntnd
1\utry I>nnson wrote his name 
after I say this guy just became the all-time lead­
his first 12 passes of the game en route to a 12-of­
into tlw record hooks. b~leoming 
ing rusher in Notre Dame history. That's a pret­
14 day.

tlw Irish's all-timn leading rusher 
ty strong statement." -Bob Davie
with 4,11)2 yards. 
--~----­
Page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, November !6, 1998 
Defense provides capital punishment 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saim Mary's Editor 
After games of sloppy tackles and gaping holes, the Irish defense seems to be catch­ing on to the art of masonry. 
The defense cement-sealed the brick wall they constructed in last week's final goal­line stand against Boston College by block­ing Navy from reaching the end zone in the 30-0 win. 
''I'm most proud of the way our defense rnsponded after last week and what hap­pened up in Chestnut Hill. Our one constant was that our defense played well,"coach Bob Davie said. "We've worked so hard to make consistent, steady improvement." 
It seems some barbed wiring and electric fencing were also added to the wall of dnfense as the Midshipmen, the top ranked rushing team in the nation, were limited to 137 yards rushing -160 yards less than their average. 
Navy had not been shut out since 1995 against Virginia Tech. The last time the Irish blanked an opponent was the 62-0 stomping of Hutgers in 1996. 
"That's great when you shut out a team. It's a sign of a great defense, a resurrected defense,"said sophomore Brock Williams. 
In addition. Navy lost 25 yards on the run and turned the ball over four times. ILl. Scott. John Owens and Bobbie Howard each recovered a fumble, while Benny Guilbeaux nabbed a one-handed intercep­tion at the end of the second quarter. 
"We moved the ball but we turned it over and shot ourselves in the foot,"said Navy coach Charlie Weatherbie. 
Senior captain Howard led the brigade, torpedoing the Navy fleet with nine tackles, three of which were unassisted, for a total of 89 on the season. 
"Bobbie Howard is the same as every game-excellent,"Davie said. 
Kory Minor appeared top-form as well. He tallied live tackles, four of which were unassisted. 
Howard and Minor were backed up by Brock Williams, Lamont Bryant, Brad Williams, Deke Cooper and Jimmy Friday were each highlighted with four tackles. 
Anthony Weaver continued his consistent play as well. The freshman had three tack­les and took out Brian Broadwater for a four-yard loss. . 
"The thing about this defense ... is that there are not a lot of stars. It's taken all of us,"Davie said. 
The Irish are now eonvinced they are a different team than the one who allowed Boston College to dominate with 491 yards and stumbled through a game where Michigan State took to the ground for 242 yards. 
"We've been paying more attention to detail,"Davie said. "There were a lot of bro­ken assignments. That's a sign that we're doing too much. So we cut back on both sides of the ball this week." 

The Irish, giving up an average of 20.9 points a game before Saturday, did not let the Midshipmen move within 22 yards of the goal line. They also kept Navy void of converting on fourth down and just 5-of-14 on third-down attempts. 
A key part of the Irish plan confining the explosiveness of fullback Irv Dingle and quarterback Broadwater. 
Dingle was the 35th best rusher in the nation and third among all fullbacks, aver­aging 90 yards a game. Broadwater was just as superb, averaging 85 yards a game. 
The Irish, however, stifled the team gen­erals. 
Dingle managed just 42 yards in 16 attempts, averaging a mere 2.6 yards a carry. The other set of legs for the Midshipmen, Broadwater. was held to 58 yards rushing in 19 attempts. He was also sacked for an 11-yard loss by Antwan Jones, who talli{ld three tackles. 
·~1 was real surprised we were able to shut down Dingle like that,"said Brock Williams. "We just worked hard at contain­
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING• SCORING SUMMARY 
Scoring 1st 2nd 3rd 4th
1st Quarter 
Notre Dame 7 7 13 3
ND -Spencer 4­
Navy 0 0 0 0
yard run (Sanson
kick) Team Statistics ND NA 
First Downs 21 B 
Hushed-Yards 243 137
2nd Quarter 
Passing-Yards 159 102 Sacks-Yards lost 1-11 1-7
ND -Denson 8­
Passes 14-12-1 17-7-0
yard run (Sanson 
Punts 4-134 4-168
kick) 
Fumbles-Lost 1-1 6-3 
Penalties-Yards 9-87 2-10 
Timr. of Possession 31:29 28:31
3rd Quarter Individual Statistics
ND -Denson 18­
yard run (Sanson 
Rushing
kick failed) 
ND -Denson 25-107, Jackson 11-61, Fisher 8-29, Spencer 4-16 NA -Broadwater 19-58, Dingle 16-42, Wolf 2-17 
ND -Johnson 16­
yard pass from 
Passing
Jackson (Sanson 
NO-Jackson 14-12-1-159
kick) 
NA -Broadwater 12-6-0-88, Ilolley 3-1-0-14 
4th Quarter 
Receiving ND -Johnson 4-61, Getherall 3-20, Brown 2-32, Nelson 1-19 
ND -Sanson 37­
NA -Mill 3-65, Head 2-15, Vereen 1-14
yard field goal 
ing the option and the wishbone." 

Part of the Irish defensive success was learning from the lesson Army taught them. 
"It helped that we played Army a few weeks ago. It gave us a good foundation for the option,"Davie said. "This was a good thing for [our defense because] you have to execute at such a high level." 
The return of Grant Irons was also a dri­ving force for the defense. Irons, who was out with a shoulder sprain against Army, Baylor and Boston College, came back strong with three tackles. 
"It's good just to be back and feeling I'm contributing to the team. That's a great feeling," Irons said. "Our goal every week is to get better as a team and focus on the game plan." 
With two games left the Irish are hoping to keep adding the bricks to what looked like an impassable defense against the Midshipmen. 
"Defense is one piece of the puzzle,"Irons said. "That's going to be a factor in the up and coming games." 

v 
s 

GRADING 
THE 
IRISH 
Quarterbacks: A-

Jackson is inching closer to perfection. He was a perfect "12-12 going into the fourth quartr.r until he was under heavy pressure and threw an ill-advised pass to O'Leary. He completed 12 of just 14 passes for 15Y yards. Jackson also showed his talent on the ground, gaining 61 yards on 11 carries. 
Running backs: A-

Denson downplayed his third fumble in two games by breaking two Allen Pinkett records and scoring two touchdowns. Denson sur­passed Pinkett's 4,131 career rushing yard record, running for 107 yards on 25 carries and he now tops the charts with his 22nd, 100-yard rush­ing game. 
Receivers: A 

The Irish rotated six play­ers, who caught all but two passes and amassed 159 yards. With 12 receptions, only one of which was an endzone connection, the Irish did not have enough thrown their way to show on·. 
Offensive Line: B 

The one rare sack by Ryan Hamilton was the only hit for a loss the line allowed. Jaekson. once again, received all the time he needed to get off the passes. The blockers provided wide gaps for Denson, but holding penalties could have made the differ· ence in a closer game. 
Defensive Line: A-

The men up front held the nation's top-ranked rushing attack to just 137 yards on the ground. Navy came into the game averaging nearly 300 rushing yards per game. 
Unebackers: A-

Bobbie Howard recorded a 
team-high nine tackles, while 
Kory Minor had five. The line­
backers played a key role in 
stopping Navy's option game. 
Secondary: B+ 

The Irish secondary allowed just seven comple­tions and 102 receiving yards. Brock Williams and company bounced back nicely after a tough day in Chestnut Ifill a week ago. Bnnny Guilbeaux's interception on fourth down helped prevent Navy from reaching pay dirt. 
Special Teams: A· 

Getherall looked endzone 
bound as he ran 68 yards for 
his longest punt return before 
being tripped up short of the 
goal line. Sanson missed an 
extra point, but made the 
other three PATs. Smith was 
consistent and pinned the 
Midshipmen deep. 
Coaching: A-

Give credit to Davie and the 
rest of the irish staff. A week 
after a dose encounter with 
Boston College, the Irish 
rebounded with a dominating 
victory over the Middies. The 
shutout was the first in the 
Davie era. 
Overall: 3.59 
With LSU and USC remain­
ing on the schedule, Notre 
Dame is on the right track. 

Monday, November 16~,_1..:_9_98_____________:T:...:.h.:.::e_:O::.:b:.:s:.:::er:...:.v:.:::er~•-=I=R:..:I::.:S::..:H=-=-::.:IN:....:..::S:..:I=D:....:E=.R=--------------------__..:...p_:ago:.-e_3 • imr.H lr-11lhlHT 
Irish keep streaks alive, Denson shatters records 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
As;i~r.lllr Sport\ Fdicor 
Prior to Saturday. s<•nior tailback Autry Jlpns<Jil had only llll't formnr Irish star Al!Pn l'inkl'tt in an nl<'vator last yPar at I.S! I. Thrt•f' and a half hours and '1117 rushing yards latl'r, lw rncnivnd a plwrw rail fro111 thf' man whosn school rushing n·<·ord lw just hrokP. 
"!If' gavt• nH' a rail right al'lt•r thn ganu•," J)pnson said. "liP just told llH' rongratulations. llf' 

said ht• didn't think it 
I broke tlw rocord," rould havt• happ!'nl'd Denson said. "lin said. to a bdt<'r IH'rson and 'What are you going to do just nnt~ouragPd mn to after you break tlw record' k<•np going !'or t hi' rt~st and I told him I'm just of I hi' Sl'aSon." going to keep playing." 
"Al11•n l'inkPU was Denson kept playing on th<• piHIIH' and I alright. After he picked up told him I apologiznd." the 47 yards necessary to hPad roach Hob llaviP break the reeord, he said. "I rouldn't. just racknd up another 20 en 
Davin also spoke about Denson's uns(\lfish attitude and commitment to !wiping the tnam win. 
"I think tlw thing that's most exciting about Autry Dnnson is that he broke that rncord. but he was most upset about fumbling that ball," Davit~ said. I think that's why Autry Dnnson has been such a leader for us and such a eompoti­1.or. As groat as that record is, Autry l'nl'.ls bad about that l'umbln." 
For Dnnson, it's all business. 
"Coach Strong asked nw if' I had any­
thing spncial planned once 
throw it I'VPry down to kl'f'Jl Autry !'rom lm·aking that rncord. It's a spPrial lllOIIH'nl. lining tlw all-timn IPadi11g ruslwr is a lwrk of a thing." 
I>Pnso11 has 11ow rushnd for 4,192 yards i11 his rarPt'r. placing him 35th i11 NCAA history. 
'Tm prowf of' him," Davin said. "1 gave him a ganw ball al'tnr thn ganw. I told our l<·am to lnt it sink in !'or a sncond ai'IPr I say this guy just bt~ramn llw all­tinll' IPading ruslwr in Notrn Damn his­tory. That's a prPLty strong slat<nnent." 
I lis quartPrhack also had a fnw laud­ahiP words af't.1•r tlw ganw. 
'Tm happy !'or him." .Jarious .Jackson said. "liP's got tlw Notrn I>anw rushing n•wrd and hP's tlw kind of guy that dPSI'rVt'S it." 
Thn modnst Dnnson. hownvnr. down­playl'd thP accomplishmnnt and pro­I'<'Pdnd to spn~ad tlw wealth. 
"I would just likP to congratulate my lin<'IIH'n, tht• dnfnnsn. all thn way down to thn scout tnam. lwt~ausn thosn arn the guys that gnt up tlwn• and bear it," I>P11son said. "Tlw grnal<~st thing about gPUing this n•cord is that it's a tnam rP<'ord. somdhing Wt' ran all share. I'm fortuna!<' to havP a castlikP I do." 
route to his third eonsocu­livn 1,000-yard rushing season, tying a l'inkntt rncord. And after that, he kept going, all tho way up to 107. With that, lw nelipsml the cnntury mark for the 22l1Cl time in his earner, breaking anoth­er orw of Pinkett's records. 
Yet on a day when two Notre Dame rushing records fell, two other long­standing streaks remained in taet. 
With the 30-0 shutout, Notre Dame continued its dominance over the Naval Ar.adnmy, winning its :)5th-eonseeutive game over tlw Midshipmen. That streak is thn longt~sl winning streak by one team over an opponent. The last time the Middies beat the Irish, John Kennedy was president. and Heisman trophy winner Roger Staubaeh was quarterback for Navy. This year's Irish team was more concerned about the game and it's importance in the 1998 season, however. 
"I novor mentioned that winning stmak orw time," Davie said. "It has no effect on me, because when we play thmn next year. we're still going to be try to stop that fullback, still trying to stop that quartt~rback and if' they're in that same of'f'nnse. it'll be the same problem. So I don't think it's a factor." 
"We just have to come out and play," Denson said. "It was kind of like the analogy Coach Roberts used all week. Going into a fight you don't ask the per­son how many previous fights they have won. You just end up trying to win. So that's the approach we took." 
This Saturday's game also marked the 72nd time the two teams have met, the longest continuous intersectional rivalry in the country. 
Notre Dame and Navy also managed to sellout Jack Kent Cooke Stadium and drew the highest attendance (78,844) in the stadium's two-year history, surpass­ing the Washington Redskins previous record of 78,200. 
"I talked to our players about that," Davie said. "I said certainly don't take anything for granted. We're coming into Jack Kent Cooke Stadium. It's the first college football game played in here. 



"They are playing with a different attitude. It used to bH you
games. With naeh game that 

would see a guy taking a down off every now and then. Thny did 
won a gamn :{0-0 but I think Notrn Dame adds tO its ever not do that."
continued from page I all of us look ahPad at the growing record, the more improvnnwnts wn can make." weapons it unveils.
in this stor:i<·d series. 
• Navy defensive tackle Jason Snider on his la...;t gam<' against
Davin and Co. fnnl that the Tho question remains will
Saturday's mnPting marknd 
Notre Dame!

team still arn on somewhat of Notre Dame have enough
tl11• 72nd nrnding for tho 
"They have three more years left to beat Notre Dame. It was my
a rollnrcoastnr in thn gamns. artillery to fend ofT the compe­
Midshipnwn and thn Irish. Tlw last shot and ,Jason's (WolO last shot. but I'm proud or these guys." 
lin maintains that with naeh tition and rngain its plac.e at
:Hl-0 win was tlw :{;ith ,-;traight 
wnnk that passns thn team the top.
vil'l.ory for Nolrl' DamP. 
bn!:omns morn and morn nxcit­
"Onr.n again wn are an 8-1 ed about tho team," Davin said. "Wn just
Game 
We're selling this stadium out. It's a huge credit to you guys and it's also a huge responsibility to go out thnrn and play how Notre Damn football is sup­posed to be played." 
Davie was even a little overwlwlmed. 
"Coming in here and playing Navy in front of a sold-out stadium, 80,000 peo­ple, it looked to me like the whole Navy was her<~." Davie said. ''I'm glad thn Persian Gulf situation got quinted down. We might have been behind in the race over there. Boy, I looked up in those stands and saw so many Naval people up there." 
Denson and the Irish, however, stole the show. 
"It's an honor for me just to bn men­tioned with .Jerome Bettis and guys like Allen Pinkett," Denson continued. "It hasn't set in yet. It's just an honor for 1ne." 
Congratulations Autry. 
• GAME NOTES AND QUOTES 

• 
Autry Denson broke two of Allen Pinkett's reeords. lie sur­passed the 4.131 career rushing record, establishing a new 4.192­yard record by rushing 107 yards against Navy. Denson also tops the charts for racking up his 22nd, 100-yard rushing game. 

• 
Jack Keht Cooke Stadium, the two-year old Redskin's stadium, was packed with 78,844 fans, breaking the record for attendance. The sell-out marks the 106th sellout in the last 122 games involv· ing the Irish. 

• 
The Irish have seored points in every quarter of their last five games (20 quarters), after failing to score in the fourth quart()r against Stanford. 

• 
With 13 points in the third quarter, Notre Dame has now outsc.oredits opponents 81-3 in that pnriod. 

• 
Navy has dropped 35 straight games to the Irish ami 28 to ranked opponents. Notre Dame was the f1fth-ranked t.eam this season to defeat the Midshipmen. 

• 
The last time Notre Dame blanked an opponent was the h2-0 win over Rutgers. The game was Lou Holtz's linal ganw eoaching in Notre Dame Stadium. 


• Head coach Bob Davie: 

"Any time you shut out a team 30-0, especially an offense as prolific as Navy, it's a huge accomplishment." 
"In tho first half, our offense struggled with penalties. I newr saw that many holding penalties in my can,cr." 
• Quarterback .Jarious .Jackson: 

''We knew Navy would give us a fight because they're the type of team that goes down till the end. But we definitely wa.ntPd to rome out and make a statement." 
• Navy head coach Charlie Weatherbie on Notre Dame:
forthcoming 

-
... 
• ..­

.., 

NOTRE DAME 30 NAVY 0 
JACK KENT COOKE
-
STADIUM 
NOVEMBER 14, 1998 

Photos by Liz Lang and Meg Kroener 

S€6ne 
Monday, November 16, 1998--------------------O THE --------------------------------------------page II
BSERVER 

• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK • CHART-TOPPERS 


By JENELLE WILLIAMS found a new life. new friends and a Sn·nl· Movil· ( :ritic rww love with whom lw feels eom­pletely content. Thus. they come to a What is truth? compromise. Emory agrees to write I low important is honnsty in today's ads, as long as he can stay with his 
sociP ty'! crazy friends. 
Do advnrtising agnnl'ies possnss the These friends, the other patients in powei· to confront this question? his "sharing session," provide the Should tlwy have this power? majority of the humor in this hilari­
Movie Title Gross Sales 
In "Crazy l'nopll~." Emory, playnd by ous f'ilrn. Dudley Moon~. risks his job and his One man only says "hello" to speak. sanity to advocat.1~ his answer to these Another talks constantly about the 1 . The Waterboy $ 25.2 million pressing qunstions. make of Saabs. While yet another 
2. I Still Know What You $ 17.5 million 
l·:nwry is an ad writ<~r. For years only plays the piano. While these 
Did Last Summer

lw's lwen tlw man lwhind thn sennns, charactnrs may not be the brightest pumping out !ins in thn form or spicy of p1mple, they soon bneome Emory's 3. Meet Joe Black $ 15.6 million slogans and catchy jingles. But one dose friends. 
4. The Siege $ 8.3 million
day lw just ran not do it. anymore. They show him what it means to After PXpPrinnring an overnight laugh and enjoy life again. They 5. Antz $ 4.2 million n~vnlation, much like Jnrrv Mc<;uirn, teach him that you can not judge oth­
6. Pleasantville $ 4.1 million
lw realiws that lw no long;~r wants to ers, even if they are dinically insane, produce tin•d phrasns, but instead and that tho line betwnen what is real 7. I'll Be Home For $ 4.0 million wants to introdur1~ a nnw concept and what is fantasy is usually 
Christmas 

into tlw world of advertising -thn skewed. truth. But tiHJ most impor­8. The Wizard of Oz $ 3.3 million or course, tlw imrnn­tant lesson for Emory 9. Living Out Loud $ 2.7 million diatP COtlSlHllWnCP of comes from Kathy, a 
10. Rush Hour $ 2.0 million
such an act is thn loss beautiful fellow patinnt of his job. II is boss just played by Daryl cannot undnrstand Hannah. She shows Source: Associated Press why pnopiP would Emory that hoping, want to buy a Volvo belinving and loving aftPr reading. "Thr.y'rn are necessary aspects boxy. but good," or of life. why Anwrieans would Without exception, wish to fly with an air-this movie is extrnmely 1irw that ad vn rlisns, funny. Most of this "Fly with us-most of humor is a result of OliB passPngers arrivn foul language or sexual at lludr destinations allusions coming from alivf~." the mouths of the men­
Thus, Emory not only tal patients. Some may finds himself unem­find this aspect a bit ployed, but placnd in a offensive, but in no way nwntal institution by his dosn friend, does it detract from the overall played by Paul H1~isnr. humor of the movie. 
6. Mercury Rising

Tlw plot takns a sharp turn when The plot and some specific scenes tlw truthful ads are accidentally run. of the movie arc a tad off-the-wall 7. Wild Things Tlwy soon appear in magazines, on and cheesy. This is primarily notice­
8. Lost in Space

tnlnvision and on the sides of city able at the end, when most of the buses. To nveryone's great surprise, antics make way for the serious, 9. Species II tlwy are a hugn sueenss. touchy-feely part. But for the majori­
10. Primary Colors

As a n~sult. Emory's greedy boss ty of the movie, it is hard to stop irnnwdiat1dy attnmpts to extract him laughing long enough to get bored from thP institution. But Emory has with the "crazy" plot. 
Source: Billboard Online 



• IWISH IHAD ACAREER 
Will Smith set to open new film this weekend ... 
By MICHAEL VANEGAS A~\i5tanr Set·nc Editor 
Can hn do it'? 
I am talking about Will Smith. Tht~ Frt~sh Prince. The man who was lucky onough to marry .Jada l'inkPtt. Can he do it'? 
In liJ'Jh, Smith starred in "lnd11pnndnnce Day," as thn fighter pilot who saves the world from invading alien bt•ings. 
Tlw film l!ndnd up making moro than $300 million in the 
U.S. Mor·oover, it gaV!l Smith some hox-offiee elout that would help him the following saved the world fmm threaten­Now. Smith is the man who ing alien beings in "Men in injected jigginess into the Black." American spirit. 
Not only did "Men in Black" What more can you ask from 
rake in $250 mil- one man?  
lion, but it estab­ Well. this week  
lished Smith as a  Smith  opens  
bona fido  movie  "Enemy  of  the  
star.  State,'' which was  
Today, we see a  heavily promoted  
multi-titlentnd guy  during the summer  
who  ean  sing,  season of block~  
make  people  busters as the one  
laugh,  make  thll!winter film that  
money for movie  would  rival  the  
studios  and  summer box-office  
become a cultural  numbers.  
model.  With  his  But thenl is one  
"The Frosh Prince  thing notably miss·  
of Bel-Air," Smith  ing from this film:  
proved for six sea­sons that he could eontrol the TV  Photo courtesy of Buena Vista Will Smith in "Enemy of the State."  aliens. ft will be interesting to see just how influental  
waves.  the spedal effects  

And of r.ous11 we all know that of his earlier successes were, 
There is no doubt that the film will open to respectable fig­ures at the box-office, which is really its only measure of suc· cess, because "Enemy of' the State'' is not a likely Oscar eon­tender. And although the next couple of months will be flooded with studios' last attempts to make money, "Enemy of the State" is truly a unique film amidst the kid movies and depressing dramas that typify the season. 
But the !11m does not open until November 20, so until then, speculation is pretty mueh the only tool we may use to dis­cuss Smith's care-er. Next Monday, though, the people will have spoken. And Mr. Smith will know if his career will for­ever be overshadowed by little green men and earth-saving motions. 


At the video store 
Can't Hardly Wait (Nov.17) 
Fear and loathing m las Vegas (Nov. 13) 
At the theaters 
The Rugrats Movie (Nov. 20) 
Celebrity (Nov. 20) 
Source: Hollywood.com 
summer. 
Smith was originally a rapper and how much of that success Box~Office Prediction: 1. 
Tho summer of 1997 eamo, 
from Philadelphia. which begot was because of Smith's charis­Enemy of the State 2. The 
and once again, Mr. Smith 
his tnlovision show. ma andcomic appeal. Rugrats Movie 3. The Waterboy 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 16, 1998 

Freshman forward Troy Murphy slams over the competition in the opening weekend of regu­lar season for the Notre Dame men's basketball team. 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

'Hawks ·leave Irish seeing red in opener 
By JOEY CAVATO cuting and we made some mistakes Associate Sports Editor and they took advantage of those." Behind 11 first-half points from 
Ilead coach John MacLeod knew 'freshman Troy Murphy the Irish got that his squad would go through out to a 22-13 lead. some growing pains, and Friday The Hedhawks got a big lil't from night's season opener S{'rved as a tlwir bench as guard .Jason Stewart good example. dialed long distance four times in a 
Showing that age still beats youth. three and a half minute span to give a veteran Miami of Ohio team fought his squad a 25-24 lead and a 27-26 off a lackluster first half and a feisty lead at the break. Irish squad while exploiting Notre The Irish offense stalled when the Dame's youth in the second to defeat Hedhawk defense picked up its inten­the Irish 76-65 at the Joyce Center sity and Murphy only got one mon~ Friday night. field goal attempt in thn second half. 
After holding Wally Szcerbiak and "You can blame me for that." Damon Friorson to (our points in the MacLeod said about Murphy's lack of first half, the duo combined for 19 in opportunities. "I didn't get the ball to the second in leading a charge that him. That's my job as the eoaeh. We put away the Irish. need his offense to be productive and 
"They made some adjustments in consistent." the second half," senior guard Antoni Murphy certainly showed he has Wyche said. "As pe<)ple started to the ability to score on the Division wear down he was able to get into a One level as he seared 19 points and rhythm. It's hard to start a player had six rebounds. like him [Szczerbiak] for an entire "It was interesting," Murphy said of game." his first collegiate game. "I got lit up 
But it was really the Red Ilawk by No. 5 and that kind of hurt us. defense that lead to the Notre Dame There were a lot of different bmo­downfall. . tions and it was something I've never 
"We got after them defensively and experienced before." I thought that was the turning point "J thought Troy Murphy did a good in the game," Miami coach Charlie job," MacLeod said. "lie got a little Coles said. "I thought ND had a great fatigued but he can really score." game plan in the first half and our Midway through the second half thr, players adapted in the second." Irish made a mini-run behind the 
"They ratch1:1ted up their defense play of Antoni Wyche who scored and really came after us," MacLeod eight of his 16 points in an 84-second said. "We were talking about keeping span that brought the Irish to within composed, but it's hard to do when a live and brought the crowd or 7,395 guy's in your molars." to its feet. 
That defense caused 11 second half "Tone had a big night for us and Notre Dame turnovers and Miami gave us a great effort," MacLeod lead by as many as 15 points. said. 
"It's a veteran team we have and Unfortunately, the only thing the they adjusted," Coles said. "Notre crowd in the South dome of the Joyce Dame played harder than we did the was cheering about late in the game first half, but in the second we played was when the public address tough basketball and it was pretty to announced the score of the Notre watch." Dame/Bowling Green hockey game in · "We had a good pace in the first the North dome. half," said senior Phil Hickey who "We have young players and we had 10 points. "In the second half the have a lot of work to do," MacLeod effort was there we just weren't exe-said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-d~y classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies, we're open! 
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome , Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,7 Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
ILOST & FOUND I 
••••••••••••FOUND............. 
Big Set of keys @ Domino's on 
Edison on 11/6. 
Call271-0300. 
WANTED 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs. Free Parties.America's best prices & packages. Campus sales reps wanted Earn free trips + cash 1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­Workers earn up to $2000+/month (w/tips & benefits). World Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­$7000/summer.Ask us how! 517­336-4235 Ext.C55841 
FOR RENT 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road, Exit #107 
1-800-418-9487 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­
rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. 
1 ,2,3.4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR 
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­
TIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. 
AVAIL NOW & FALL 1999. 272­
6306 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM 232-2595 
House for rent, 105 Marquette, 5 bedrooms, available now and for next fall, 232-6964 
FOR SALE 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 
198 MIN. $20 
CALL 258-4805 FOR SALE. LIVE PH ISH CDS! sed box set. not available in 
U.S. call pete at 251-0178. 
PHONE CARDS $20 buys 282 mins. Contact: 
Andrea -634-2584 Dori -684-3339 MiMi -634-0907 
Pckrd Bell 120Mhz 80M RAM 1.2 g HD CD, Mon., Spkrs. ext. warranty $500firm 246-0781 
TICKETS 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 273-3911 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048 Need 4 LSU TIX Pat@ x0680 
need 4 LSU GA's call scott x3381 
WANTED: 2 AEROSMITH TICKETS, NEED GOOD SEATS. 271-9543 
SELLING: 4 LSU GA's!!!: $70/each Call Mike @1812 
NEED 4 LSU TIX Call312-951-5008-EVE. 
Personal 
I PERSONAL 
I 0 0 S S 
fast. Check out our Hot Jamaica 
Packages for the Class of '99!Stop 
in at Anthony Travel in the 
LaFortune Student Center and 
check out the best Spring Break 
vacations around. Get your deposit 
in by Dec.18 and save. Don't take a 
chance with an unknown agency or 
some 1-800 number.Limited space 
available,so book now! 
Anthony Travel,lnc. 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-7080 
Looking for a unique gift? 
Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll create a custom color cal­endar. 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
IDEA CLUB -Now Forming­219-675-4902 

Full Color Desktop Publishing Services are now available at The Copy Shop in LaFortune. Design, Scanning, Printing and Copying in COLOR! 
my birthday is in 4 days! this is so exciting. 
but not as exciting as going out with my keough boys. 
allen, chin up young person. i hope your week is better than last 
krup, hope my return to news lives up to your expectations. 
star trek is made so girlfriends go nuts. 
that, and transportation raccoon. 
how's my airport? 

Here's some thoughts from way out in RIGHT field ... 
Spoonball...catch the fever. 
Bruinball...catch the flu. 
'Just say no to the Big Ten'. 
You guys out there in Zahm: keep that sign up out there. Fight the power. 
It's not just basketball. It's Notre Dame basketball. 
Let's see ... two tests, a 25-page solids lab, kinematics and fluids homework, DARTing, a meeting to 
discuss graduate school, a pullout, two articles, and a Sunday night with the Observer staff. Ah. the lonely life of a mechanical engi­neer/Observer writer. 
Heather V., What are you growing? Is it lice? NO! Is it high-heeled silver shoes? NO! It's ... 
Brad, I hope you get today's paper, cuz this is your classified, honey. Michelle 
p.s. Bill says hi! 
I like Starburst. 

Gosh, I wish I was invited to the dance party at Tick-Tock. 
There's only so much you can say about beam-bending. 
Let's see, in Circuits we learned about capacitors, and in fluids we learned about flux. So, by the end of the semester, should we know how to build a flux capacitor? 
My gosh, we're in the hands of engineers. 
Hey Nick and Company ..how are those navy seats? 
It was a run-by fruiting. 

Run-by fruiting? Kathleen, you ok? 
This week's Observer sports trivia question: On Bill's road trip to Lubbock, what was the most he paid for a meal? Answer: $4.99. 
There's nothing better than frappu­cinos and cookies for breakfast 
~---------, 
__ ­

-------~--~~~--------~­
Monday, Novembn I(>, 1998 The OGserver • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital punishment demean the lives of countless individuals in our society. 
Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration to pra~ for an end 
to the culture of death. 
"I make a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity make a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for jesus becomes more intimate, our love for each other more understanding, and our love for the poor more compassionate ... " 
-Mother Teresa 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDC • IMI 

Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers 
that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of 
death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God 
and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care 
for and nurture the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­
ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
(through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from 
seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service 
to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. 
We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 

God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Him for a certain amount of time (usually 1j2-1 hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 

If Jesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? WelL Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY TO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with I lim, question Him. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 

When you enter the chapeL you should genuflect as a sigJ1110f reverence tu Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­like you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love !lim and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 

"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in a pyx or 11 monstrance, is 11 recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in aspiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in lwnnony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican II) Document, S.C.D.W. 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Blessed Mother Chapel in the Basilica:-12:00pm (following 11 :30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosary beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11 :30pm (following 11 :OOpm Mass) through TUESDAY at lO:OOpm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-lO:OOpm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
~-------­
--~----------­

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 16, 1998 
"I was pleased to see that with Ruth fouling out, we were still
W. 8-ball 
able to score some points," said 
continued from page 20 
nerves at all when she got on the court." 
Hills finished the game third in scoring for the Irish behind Ivey and Green. The backcourt pair stepped up their play when McGraw's team needed it most. 
With center Ruth Riley fouling out early in the second half with four fouls. all-American Maylana Martin and Melanie Pearson led the Bruins to within six points. But that was the clos­est UCLA would come to closing the gap, as lvey and Green start­ed their surge. 
McGraw. "Niele really created that surge along with Danielle. Some of their rebound buckets were just big." 
lvey lit it up first, with nine points in 43 seconds as the Bruins did not get closer than nine the rest of the game. The junior guard saw the opportuni­ty and capitalized by stealing the wind from UCLA's sails. 
"I was open, and I figured I might as well take a chance," she said. "We played to build momentum each time we came down the court." 
Both players took advantage of speed against their pairings 

Senior captain Sheila McMillen and the Irish hope to continue their good fortune later this week when they travel to Butler. 
Please Recycle 
r\!HE 
VBSERVER 
Your potential is worth a lot more. 
Freebies. Everyone is handing them out. Is that enough for you? We think you deserve more. 
And at Schwab, we've got a lot more to offer. We're investing in the potential of our people. Creating a powerful technology infrastructure. And provid­
.. 
ing visionary financial services. 
Which is not to say that 
ifyou want a new toy, 
you don't deserve one. 
We just thought a sound 
opportunity would be 
worth more. 
On-Campus Meet the Interviews Company 
will be conducted Tuesday, November 17 
November 18. 7 PM Contact your career Morris Inn, center for more Alumni room 
information. 
Visit our new web site at: www. schwabcollege. com 
CharlesSchwab 
This is where you can do 
the best work of your life. 
Charles Schwab&. Co., Inc., Member SIPC/NYSE. November 1998. Equal Opportunity Employer. 

all across the court. Erica sition. "I just wanted to play a Gomez, an all-American candi-smart game and stay in control. date guard, has held in check Today, Niele and my teammates with only six points. Her inabili-were looking for me, and I was ty to score effected her floor the one today." presence as well, as Ivey and Even with Riley fouling out in Green ·continued to wreak the second half, the Bruin inside havoc. game was unable to come alive. 
"I just wanted to come out After Martin and Pearson com­there and play my game within bined for 28 in the first half, for­the system," said Green about wards Kelley Siemon and Diana leading her team over the oppo-Braendly led the switch to the zone defense that kept UCLA oil' target. 
"They went into a 2-3 zone and they had one in front of me and one behind me," said Martin. "That contributed to [the lack of scoring in the second). I was also at the high post a lot more in the second half, too." 
The win is the school's 400th ever and starts the season at 1­0. 


,.----------------~----~ --­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Freshman forward David Graves scored 16 points in Notre Dame's first victory of the season, a 64-62 win over Yale. 
Loo~mg Por Barnstormers .. nn~ Dreamers ... 
You have ambition ••. 
A confidence in your expertise ... 
And, .•. a bit of the visionary lurking about the edges ... 
Dreaming possible dreams is our specialty, too. 
COME SEE US 
6:3opm-8:3opm Wednesday, Nov. 18th Morris lm1 •Alumni Room 
United Airline$, a world-class employee-owned company with a wholistlc approach to tHe. 
DONAHUE 
-~ ·-~--------­
• MEN'S BASKETBALL Irish keep Bulldogs on leash ... 
Murphy and Graves attempted to answer for each long-range shot, Cavaco and Heusch each shot one more trey, taking a 59-55 lead, their first since the first • possession of the game, with 
2:10 rmnaining. 
In true style reminiscent of earlier basketball squads, how­ever, the Irish carne back. A throe-point play by Gravns cut the lead to one point while a strong defensive stand left the Bulldogs. A battle for the rebound was declared a jump ball. with tlw horne te;un holding the possession arrow. On the next possession, Wyche hit a three-pointer with 2!i snconds remaining, and the Irish IHWI~r looked back. 
After tlw game, Kurhen described the new snclion of the "jump ball" rule that entered service this year. 
"If [the oflieialsl don't l'nnl that the def(mse has actually come in and tied the guy up under pos­session, then they nwert to pos­session arrow," he said. "So, that's the interpretation that they felt the situation was ... it was loose, and they both had their hands on the ball." 
A late rally by the Bulldogs, capped by a three-point basket by Onaje Woodpine, fnll short, and the Irish walked away with their first win of the season. 
. "Thi~. was disap~oin.~ing loss for us, Kuchnn smd, because wn were in a situation where we had opportunities. But I think our team, overall, left everything that they had out on the court." 
Even with the positive result, MacLeod bnlieves that it will take tim for the tnam to gel. 
"Obviously we have a while to go ... it's fairly dear," he said. "We had 17 turnovers. It's not an abnormal amount, but we start­ed to get t1mtativn. We'n~ going to have to grow into that mode and understand that when they're open, thny've got to shoot." 
The Irish basketball squad will have a chance to add to their vic­tory total later on this wnek. when they travel to Tnnnessee to battle Vanderbilt. The match with the Commodores is set for 7:30p.m. this Wndnesday. 
Ifyou see sports happening call 
1-4543. 
By BILL HART Assisram Sports Ediror 
For Yale head coach Dick Kuchen, returning to Notre Dame was supposed to be a form of homecoming. 
Before heading eastward for his own coaching position, Kuchen was an assistant coach for the Irish basketball squad. For three years, he helped the legendary Digger Phelps to post­season success. including the team's only Final Four bnrth in 1978. 
It turned out to be a bittnr­sweet reunion for ·Kuehtm, how­over, as the Irish earned their lirst win of the season with a 64­62 win over thn Bulldogs. 
"It was good to be hack," Kuchen said about his rnturn to campus. "I haven't been back since last year's reunion. Certainly this is a great institu­tion, and they should take pride in the way they run their athetie department." 
Like Friday's season opener against Miami, the Irish lnapod out of the gate with a 10-0 run en route to a 12-2 lead. After calling a quick timeout, the Bulldogs stepped up their defense and dosed the gap. The counter-rally was capped three­pointer by Yale's Brad Reusch, which cut Notre Dame's lead to 21-20 with 6:48 left in the half. 
Despite their difficulties with perimeter defense, the Irish still found a way to answer each rally that the Bulldogs attempted. After another Heuseh three­pointer cut the lead to one point, senior Antoni Wyche drove for the basket for a layup, making the basket and drawing the foul. lie then completed the three­point play to help push the team to a 32-27 lead at the half. 
Freshman forward Troy Murphy quickly pickP.d up his third foul to start the second half. but, in a surprise move. hn did not take a seat on the bench in order to stay out of foul trou­ble. 
As it turned out, the decision paid ofl', as the freshman duo of him and David Graves scored the next 16 points for the Irish en route to a seven-point lead. 
"Troy and David can score." MacLeod remarked on the two froshmnn. "They both have the ability to get the job dono. David's got great instincts, but Troy's been getting in early foul trouble." 
The Bulldog offense continued to successfully hit the perimeter shot, however, elawing their way back to within striking position. Two straight treys by Reusch negated Graves and Murphy's e!Tort, and pulled the visitors to within a basket for the seemingly umpteenth time. A three-pointer on the next possession, this time by guard Isaiah Cavaco, tied the game at 53-all with 3:38 remain­ing. 
While the trio of Wyche, 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 

MONTERREY, MEXICO 
INFORMATION MEETING WITH PROFESSOR JUAN RIVERA 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 17, 1998 126 DEBARTOLO 5:00 P.M. 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE APPLICATION DEADLINE: DECEMBER 1, 1998 
Notre Dame Film, Television, and Theatre presents 


~SpealuandMC 
by Christina Gorman

~k OutPl]ainst: Dis:riminatioo 
Directed by Siiri Scott 

c:>c:>TODAY!!!¢J¢J« 
Wednesday, November 18 7:30p.m. Thursday, Novemb!lr 19 7:30p.m. Friday, November 20 7:30p.m. Saturday, November 21 7:30p.m. 

.·~~.d 
.5:00pm STEPAN CENTER 
Sunday, November 22 2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington Hall

11 along 
Reserved Seats -$9flight home, Senior Citizens -$8 
All Students -$6
the plane goe9doWn, 
Tickets are available at the 

Sponsored By: Progrcsstve Student Alliance 
but her trip iR LaFortune Student CenterTicket Office. 

Ad l'uid For By: Notre Dame College Democrats 
MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128.
just beginning 


-~ -----~---------­
page 16 
.. Jones took a pass from Kelly Lindsey, fought off a Wolverine
Irish 
defender and set up Boxx. Boxx 
did the rest as she lifted a ball
continued from page 20 
from 20 yards out that fell over ring before and we want every­
the outreached arms of Stewart one to experience what it feels 
and short of the cross bar. like. So we're trying to help 
"The second goal was a real 
important goal because I really With the half winding down 
• them get one." 
think that took the wind out of the Irish looked to take com­
their sails," Petrucelli said. "In mand on the scoreboard as well 
the second half they dido't seem as on the field. Boxx stepped up 
to put up much of a fight." again as freshman Lindsey 
Notre Dame out-shot the guests by a mark of 22-6 and junior· LaKeysia Beene found herself lonely in between the pipes as she made just two saves. 
"I think we con­trolled the ball and W!~ wanted to make sure we won every ball in the midfield," Boxx said. "We kept posses­sion of it a lot better than the first gam1~ [against Michigan]." 
Petrucelli didn't see that much of a differ­ence in the two games other than what the scoreboard read. 
"The difference was we scored three goals today and we scored early," Petrucelli said. "It kind of changed the complexion of the game. I bet you if you look at the stats they're pretty similar." 
One difference could be that the Irish are 
See tomorrow's SPRING BREAK'99 Observer for coverage 
OURS & HOURS OF FREE DRINKS! of Ibis weekend's Earn 2 FREE Trips & $$$$$! 
,Cancun,Jamaica, Florida, Barbados, Bahamas volleyball matches. Low·est PriCKI Best Melli Plan 1·800-426·7710I www.sunsplashtours.com
I 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
J\hctW::MUSIQVE 
ORGANUM AND CHANT IN HONOR OF SAINTS 


~cbola 
;fMusicorum 
9:30p.m. Wed., Nov.l8, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free and open to the public. 
KRAMER TIMES 
Volume 1 Issue 1 NOVEMBER 1998 

*Domus Properties has two, five,six and nine bedroom student housing available 
*Student neighborhoods close to 
campus *Security systems provided *Well maintained homes *Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 199912000 
school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
Monday, November 16, 1998 
right time, at tournament time," Gerardo said. "This is when you want to be playing your best soccer. You set the goal to win the national championship at the beginning of the year and all the games leading up to thn tournament are preparation for that. I think this is what we've been working for that and I think we're prepared." 
What is the crime of silence? 

Come and learn more as Nationally Recognized Speaker 


Katie Koestner 
gives her powerful account of her experience with sexual assault: NO-YES 
Monday, November 16 At 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 
Gender Studies Women's Resource Center University Counseling Center Residence Life Sex Offense Services of Madison Center Women's Legal Forum Notre Dame Security 
NOTRE DAME GOES COLD TURKEY 
Join the Notre Dame Community for 
THE GREAT AMERICAN SMOKEOUT 
Thursday, November 19, 1998 

Tum in your tobacco products and receive a coupon for a FREE turkey sandwich. 
Tobacco products can be turned in at the following locations and times: 

~  LaFortune  1Oam to 3pm  
~  Grace Hall  !0:30am to 11:15am  
~  North Dining Hall  11 am to 2pm  
~  South Dining Hall  11am to 2pm  
~  Joyce Center  11:30am to !2:15pm  . ~  
~  Library Concourse  1:30pm to 2:15pm  

~ Mason Services Center 3:15pm to 4pm 

Coupons for a Free turkey sandwich redeemable at: Reekers * HuddleMart * Greenfields * Decio Commons Cafe Poche (Bond Hall) * Waddicks (O'Shaughnessy) Irish Cafe (Law School) * Common Stock Sandwich Co. (COBA) 
Tobacco Cessation Materials will be available. 
This program is sponsored by IRISHealth, Notre Dame Food Services, American Cancer Society, and Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
riding a seven-game winning streak in which they have given up only two goals. The last Michigan game came on the heels of a 2-3 overtime loss to Seton Hall and a tie with Connecticut. 
"Everyone is really confident with how we're playing right now," Gerardo said. "We trust each other, we're going out there and playing how we know we're capable of playing." 

The Irish will look to continue to play at the top of their game as they have a date with No. 13 Nebraska Friday night in the third round of the NCAAs. Nebraska beat Texas A&M 7-0 on Sunday. 
"I think we're playing really well and we're doing it at the 
Monday, November 16, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Hockey 
continued from page 20 
made it sound easier than it rnally is: "It's mostly instinct; you have to judge where the puek will be when the defense ·shoots it and where the n~bounds are going." 
Bowling Green entered the third period tied 2-2 thanks to goaltondor Mikn Savard, who stopp!HI two Irish breakaways in tho first pnriod, both coming with Bowling Green on the samn pownr play. The Irish smoknd thn Fakons goaltender ter ice to put Michigan on the power play. Within 30 seconds, Michigan's power play struck to tie the game. Michigan's fresh­man phenom Mike Comrie won the draw clean deep in the Irish zone to sophomore Mark Kosick. Kosick passed to the point to defenseman Dave Huntzicker, who used the screen in front of Forrest Karr to his advantage as his slapshot rang in loudly off the left post. 
The faceoff win which set up the first goal was a sign of things to come for the Irish, as Michigan had a clear advantage in the faceoff circle for most of the night. Ironically, the night before was just the opposite for Notre Dame, as David Inman and company strutted their stuff at the dot against the Falcons. 
The other story of the game was Michigan's special teams. The Wolverines had two ower­play goals on each of its first two chances, the second one coming midway through the second period, as Mark Kosick knocked in a rebound on Karr's left side to give Michigan a 2-1 lead. An even bigger story was 
0000C8 W®[jj][~Uj;:Ja0 
0®@@C30 uC3m[lj] 
'(!@(Jj) ~if@ ~@l®@@@@@w 
ll®u-fla(Ja©uu 
@@@@1 0(JJ)@fk 

Tuesday, November 17, 1998 a@ 11W1® fJ!J©£1£1 
S:OO pm 
ll®@flfJ1Jff1WiJ®fJ1JilU 

138 DeBartolo Hall 
their penalty-killing unit how­ever, which managed to hold off the league's top power play three straight times through the first two periods. 
But just as a lack of discipline had hurt the Irish earlier. it hurt Michigan equally later on. Sophomore defenseman Mike Van Ryan took a hitting after the whistle penalty with 1:06 to go in the second period. 
Michigan managed to kill off the penalty going into intermis­sion. However, at 26 seconds of the third period, Joe Dusbabek's soft shot seemed to baffle Bla<:kburn, who lost con­trol of the rebound, which Ben Simon smaeked home to tie the game at 2-2. 
Discipline again became an issue midway through the third, when senior Sean Hitchlin earned himself a five minute major penalty rand a game mis­conduct! for checking from behind. Notre Dame's power play was once again shut down by Michigan's penalty-!<illing unit, as they failed to get off a shot through the first three and a half minutes of the power play. For a unit which has sparkled so far this year, those five minutes were certainly the weakest the unit has looked, as they had trouble even gaining the blue line, let alone getting off a good shot. 
The final fivl~ minutes of the third period, along with the five minute overtime, were tense and physical on both sides. Overall, the game was played much more evenly than thn shots on goal might indicate. Notre Dame outslwt Michigan 36-22, but quality chances wen1 about even on the night. 
"To come back against that team in that manner, to score a [third period! goal for a three with four third period goals, however, with Ben Simon's fifth of the year providing the win­ning margin. After Urick gained the blue line with speed on right wing, he left a drop pass for Simon, which he rocketed high to the glove side of Savard, just under the crossbar. 
Another highlight-reel goal was scored by sophomore left wing Dan Carlson, when he executed a 2-on-1 with fresh­man eenter David Inman to perfoetion to make the score s·­2. 
When the Irish took on Michigan on Saturday night, thoro was a glaring absence in 

College oj Science Student Council /'resents lh<· I li,·tingw:lht•d Schoh1r Leclure Serit:,, 
••Jon/Surface Reactions: From Microelectronics to the Space Shuttle" 
l'rotessor Dennis C. Jacobs Department ofChemistry and Biochemistry 
their starting lineup. The player missing was Aniket Dhadphale, who suffered an injury late in the game against Bowling Green, forcing him out of action against the Wolverines. 
In the first 10 minutes of the game, there was little op{m ice for the forwards to create offense with, thanks to tight checking and conservative play on both sides. The Inman line changed all that at the midway point of the period, however, as they took advantage of Dan Carlson's hard work on the forecheck to finally get some open ice in the offensive zone. Carlson forced the Michigan defense to move the puck near 

the blue line, where Dusbabek, along with Tyson Fraser, forced the turnover. Dusbabek then moved the puck down the boards to Inman, who found space moving across the far cir­cle to get off a quick wrist shot that beat freshman goaltender Josh Blackburn up high to give the Irish a 1-0 lead. 
Immediately following the goal, however, freshman center Brett Henning took an undisci­plined charging penalty at cen­



Monday, November 16, 1998 compiled from wire reports page 18 
RAN KINGS 
Wildcats hand Huskers second loss
•AP POLL 
Associated Press tight encl .Justin Swift. "To around the left side and but defen·sive end Joe Bob 
1. 
Tennessee(37) 9-0 1,709 break the streak is exciting for Crouch spun and ducked to Clements hit the quarterback

2. 
Kansas State(29) 10-0 1,699 MANHATTAN, Kan. our program." avoid him. Ochs grabbed before he could release the 

3. 
UCLA(4) 9-0 1,618 After 29 years of losing to It took the fans, who rushed Crouch's fac11 mask and never ball. Linebacker Jeff Kelly 

4. 
Florida 9-1 1,526 Nebraska, top-ranked Kansas the field twice prematurely, 30 let go, twisting his helmet scooped up the loose ball and 

5. Florida State 10-1 1,489 
State finally got a break for the minutes to 
finally tear down nearly all the way around and ran 23 yards for' a touchdown 
6. 
Texas A&M 10-1 1,361 biggest win in school history. the goalposts. throwing him to the turf at the with three seconds left that Kansas State linebacker "I'm Nebraska sealed the game.


7. Ohio State 9-1 1,350 Travis Ochs sacked Eric happy, I 20. Michael Bishop overcame an
8. Arizona 10-1 1,262 
Crouch on fourth down by c a n No call erratic first half to rally
9. Arkansas 8-1 1,127 
grabbing his face mask with assure w a s Kansas State from a 17-7
10. Notre Dame 8-1 1,081 
2:32 left, but the officials you of made, deficit. He completed 19-of-3311 . Michigan 8-2 1,054 
missed the call and Kansas that, " although passes for 306 yards and two
12. Tulane 9-0 869 
State pulled away for a 40-30 Wildcats t h e touchdowns with one
13. 
Wisconsin 9-1 849 victory over nemesis Nebraska. coach Bill obvious interception, and carried 25 

14. 
Georgia 7-2 788 The Wildcats' 18-game Snyder 15-yard times for 136 yards.

15. 
Oregon 8-2 754 winning streak is one behind said. "I penalty "Mike played really well," 

16. 
Penn State 7-2 705 UCLA for the best in the feel very should Snyder said. "He was expected 

17. 
Nebraska 8-2 616 nation. g 0 0 d h a v e to, and he played extremely 

18. 
Virginia 8-2 528 The win clinched the Big 12 about this resulted well. I was proud for him. He 

19. 
Missouri 7-3 456 Conference North Division title win. I'm in a first was motivated for this 

20. 
Air Force 9-1 434 for the Wildcats (1 0-0, 7-0 Big humbled down. ballgame and he stayed tough.North), who defeated by it, in all honesty, because of "I got face-masked," Crouch Sometimes turnovers can


21. Georgia Tech 7-2 398 Nebraska for the first time how long it took. I'm so happy said. "I thought it was a rattle a player, but he handled22. Miami 6-2 365 
since a 12-0 triumph in 1968. for those people tearing the penalty." it extremely well and played23. Virginia Tech 7-2 206 It was their first home win goalpost down out there. It Kansas State ran out the ball with confidence."
24. Syracuse 6-3 140 
over the No. 11 Cornhuskers means so much to them, for on downs and Nebraska had Darnell McDonald made a25. Texas 7-3 117 
(8-3, 4-3) since a 29-14 those people who stuck one more shot. Crouch career-high 12 catches for 183 
Others receiving votes: triumph in 1959. 
through it, through thick and dropped back to pass in the yards and two scores and Kentucky 66, Texas Tech 65, "It's starting to sink in right thin." waning seconds and had Matt freshman Aaron Loekett added USC 56, West Virginia 23, now," said Kansas State senior Ochs came untouched Davison open on a fly pattern, six for 117 for the Wildcats. Wyoming 1 0, Mississippi State 8, Purdue 8, Marshall 6, Colorado 3, North Carolina State 3, Brigham Young 1 . 
Volunteers slip past Razorbacks 
• ESPN/COACHES' POLL Associated Press in this game." Henry, a sophomore, 
1. 
Kansas St(36.5) 10-0 1,520 KNOXVILLE, Tenn. carried 32 times for a career­

2. 
Tennessee (18.5) 9-0 1,486 The name Clint Stoerner high 197 yards, including all 

3. 
UCLA (7) 9-0 1,443 will go down in Tennessee 43 yards on the winning 

4. 
Florida 9-1 1,349 lore and Arkansas infamy. drive with runs of 15, 15, 11, Stoerner's inexplicable

5. 
Florida St 10-1 1,304 one and one yards. 


fumble with 1:43 remaining "We huddled up and Tee
6. Ohio St 9-1 1,202 led to the winning touchdown [Martin] and the offensive7. TexasA&M 10-1 1,191 as top-ranked Tennessee line told me to take it to the8. Arizona 10-1 1,109 survived, 28-24, against No. promised land," said Henry.
9. Arkansas 8-1 928 9 Arkansas in a battle of "Coming into the game, I was10. Notre Dame 8-1 916 
Southeastern Conference more motivated since I got
11. Michigan 8-2 912 
unbeatens. my first start. Arkansas has a 
12. 
Wisconsin 9-1 830 The Razorbacks (8-1, 5-1 good defense. Once we 

13. 
Tulane 9-0 808 SEC West) appeared to have figured out their scheme, we 

14. 
Penn St 7-2 665 the game in hand, attempting ran very well." 

15. 
Georgia 7-2 652 to kill the clock at midfield The Volunteers' stirring 

16. 
Oregon 8-2 589 with a two-point lead after comeback came just stopping Tennessee on four moments after fellow No. 1


17. Air Force 9-1 495 
18. 
Virginia 8-2 straight plays. But Stoerner, Kansas State had put the

476 

19. 
Nebraska 8-3 473 as he was rolling away from finishing touches on a 40-30 the line, stumbled and tried victory Nebraska.

20. 
Virginia Tech 7-2 356 over 


to brace his fall by placing Tennessee is the top-ranked21. Georgia Tech 7-2 315 the football on the ground. team in the Bowl22. Miami Fla 6-2 269 
The ball came loose and was Championship Series
23. Missouri 7-3 267 reeovered by defensive tackle standings, which will 
24. Syracuse 6-3 198 Billy Ratliff on the Arkansas determine who plays for the 25. Kentucky 7-3 70 43-yard line. 
national title in the Fiesta Others Receiving Votes: USC "It was a sprintout pass Bowl. 
69, Texas Tech 69, West Virginia and I was going to keep it Playing in front of a 62, Texas 50, Wyoming 33, and somehow I dropped it," capacity crowd at 106,365 at Mississippi St 10, BYU 7, said Stoerner. "I went to the Neyland Stadium, the titanic 
ground and put one hand
Colorado 7, Miami Ohio 7, matchup marked the first Marshall 6, Purdue 5, Michigan down to catch myself and time SEC unbeatens had met 
with the other one I just lost this late in the season sinceSt 1. 
it. I don't know what Alabama's 31-7 victory over happened." Auburn on November 27th,
•••••••••••• Tennessee (9-0, 6-0 East) 1971. then handed the ball to Arkansas suffered its initial Travis Henry on five loss under first-year head
SOJJ 
Pe 
consecutive plays, the last of coach Houston Nutt. which resulted in a one-yard "I can't believe that touchdown run with 28 happend to Clint," said Nutt. IIWENTTO 
seconds to play. After a 15-hate to lose one like that. I've through the third made it 24-over the head of Chris Akin. THE GROUND yard penalty for excessive never lost one like that. 17, and Jeff Hall's 21-yard Akin kicked the ball out of celebration, the Volunteers There's a fine line between field goal with 57 seconds left the back of the end zone for a
AND PUT ONE 
took a knee on the extra­winning and losing. They're in the period brought safety that brought HAND DOWN TO point attempt and moments the No. 1 team in the country. Tennessee within four points. Tennessee within two points. '' later celebrated one of the We gave Tennessee a great Arkansas had a chance to "AI Wilson had an
CATCH MYSELF AND 
biggest victories in school gift. It rea!Jy hurts to lose one build on its lead early in the . incredible game," added WITH THE OTHER ONE history. like that." fourth but Latourette's 33-Fulmer. "He was all over the I JUST LOST rr. I "That was a great finish. Arkansas took a 24-10 lead yard attempt was blocked field. But we couldn't get
I'm tremendously proud of on Todd Latourette's 33-yard and returned by linebacker things done after the blocked DON'T KNOW WHAT the way our guys kept field goal with ' 11:43 AI Wilson to the Hazorbacks field goal." HAPPENED." fighting," said Tennessee remaining in the third 28. The Volunteers took control 
coach Phillip Fulmer. "This quarter, but was unable to Tennessee could not on their own 49 after the free ranks right up there will the hold the edge as the capatilize, but David kick and got one first down, -CuNT STOERNER all-time best comebacks. This Volunteers exploded for 18 Leaverton's punt was downed but following a short run, ARKANSAS QUARTERBACK was the most incredible points in the final 22 minutes. on the 1. After two first Martin threw three straight 
COMMENTING ON HIS GAME­crowd I can remember. They Martin's four-yard downs, Arkansas lined up for incompletions to givelthe fans} were the 12th man touchdown run midway a punt, but the snap sailed Arkansas back control.
LOSING FUMBLE 





Monday, November I (l, I 998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
...
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
GO IRISH!! BEAT THE TIGERS!! 
... 
.'\\ oin your fellow students in rallying against the LSU Tigers at the 

~ Bonfire/Tiger Rolls! on November 19th from 7:00 PM to 9:UO PM at the llolv Cross Field (field hehind the Grotto, between the lakes). Rerrcshm~:nls will he provided and special guests \viii attend. Show your spirit by also coming out to the pep rally on Friday, November 20th. Notre Dame footballs will be g1ven a\vay, so come out and receive a great gilt while cheering on the Irid1~1 Sponsored by your STlJI)ENT (;OVERNJ\IE:NT. 
l 

lit N/6Hf BE RE /14/Jf:>AY, Allb ALL WERE Ar RE5T; tuz fHEY NEEbEr> 1'11EIR SLE€P, fOR_ flJ~ORRoW'S Bl<i 'f'cS T. 
FOXTROT 
THE CAFETERIA PAIGt, ouR HAS STEAK ON CAFETERIA 
) THE MENU! DoESN'T 
WH'!'? ~ 
_) 
DILBERT 
J"OB COUNSELING 
WE'Ll NEED TO DISGUISE THE FACT THA.T YOU'RE. 
SERVE THINGS LIKE STEAK. 
I i 
~ 
/,I 
0~/ 
r-:::) . 
1~/t------w----:.r---N' ~ 
\ 
\ 
LlilL..Ll.--~L---------J-L..----'=='------===---' 
58 Be in harmony 59 Astronaut Bean 61 "What--God 
wrought!" 62 Political alliances 63 Fictional detective 
Wanted: 
64 Toast topper 65 Vision 66 Fret 67 Pottery 
Reporters and 
DOWN 
1 One may be easily dismissed 
photographers.
2 Author Brei 

3 Vigorously 4 July Fourth celebration feature s Security 
equtpment 6 Fabulist 1 Spots 8Taj·-·­9 Former Israeli 
Prime Minister 10 July Fourth celebration feature 11 Air freshener 
target 12 Shield border 13 Quit, in poker 21 Baseball great 
AI 
23 Pro-­25 July Fourth celebration features 
ALl 811T PoD ZIIC~ ~ So IT bJb 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 16,1998

SEEI"', 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS

\,/Hit£ 11/E OfHtRS W;T 5/ltfT~ JIE 
DAY: Burgess Meredith, Lisa Bonet, 
Martho Plimpton, GeorgeS. Kaufman 
Happy Birthday: You are ready to take on the world, so start the ball rolling. You have the discipline to cunqu<•r everything that you put your mind to. Get organized and be strate· gi~ in your approach and success will lll' yums. It's lime to show a littlt• con· lid<'nC<' in order to get the backing y<>u'r<' looking for. After oil, if you st,md tall and speak with passi<•n. huw Glll .111\'lllll' turn dnwn a chance Ill wnrl-. \\'itll \'l)U? \\lur numlwrs: 11. It'. 2LJ, 3S, -12, 47 
ARIES (March 21·April19l: Open 

Sl(/ PfE() IIIE VACC/NC. 
BILL AMEND 
Jnd honest communication \'\'ill make p<>rtnershtps favorable. You will do well with a Libra or an Aquarius.
I CAN'T AND HoW WoULD

IT'S PRINTED AND IN ALL 
New lovers will show interest if you RIGHT HERE.' CAPITAL 
IMAGINE WH'!' 'l'oU LikE YoU!? 
get involved in entertaining groups. 
000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20l: 
THAT WouLD SQUIO TENTACLES,

IT'S IN BLACK LETTERS, 
MAKE A EGGPLANT AND

AND WHITE.' YoU'LL 
CLlOd ideas for making extra cash will
DIFFERENcE. KETCHuP
NoTICE. 
surf.1cc. It's time tll t.1kt~ action, but 
I 
.tlso .1 time to a\'oid confiding in oth­t..•rs.. Dan1..1gc to your reputation will unfold if you are tno opt•n about yuur k,•Jin~s. 000 
GEI\IINI (May 2l·June 201: You'll uul...l' ht'.ld\\',1\' \\'hL'rL' \'our t.'llN.ltiona} ,,·,·11-b,•ing j..; ·CI,IKL'rn~·d. ·1 r.H·l~l and --~~\.·ul .tdi\·it\' will ;h·ti\·."ltl' n..:-w J'tllll.lllt.."t'. l·.du~..-.,ti\Ht.1fpur:'uih will brin~ ~'lll\ i11 C~lni.KI with intt..•rL'sting ~''-\lpl\· C..'tQOOO 
CANCER (June 2l·July 221: Pr<>p· ~..·rly investmenl1i will p.1y lll{ A rt:>si­
SCOTT ADAMS 
denli,ll mow will bL' to your advan· tage. Luxury items purchased for your home will contribute more than 

Join The 
27 Songwriter Gus 42 Silk-trading city 52 Pierce 
Observer staff. 
of France 53 California resort29 Tennyson poem 45 Conductor 54 Taps or pats30 Leer Ansermet 55 He, to Enrico31 He wrote "Ten 47 Heretofore 

Days That 56 Kermit, e.g.
49 Fashion lines Shook the 57 Top of the head 
51 AustralianWorld" 

critter 60 Auction offering 32 Awful end 
33 Rival rival Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
34 "--the twain 
are available by touch-tone phone: shall meet" 

1-900-420-5656 (75\t per minute). 36 Pastoral poem 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 40 Martinelli or best of Sunday crosswords from the last Caruso 50 years: (800) 762-1665 
trips ,111d social festivities will bring additional popularity. 0000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 221: Ex· press your intentions to older, more established individuals. Listen to the advice given about money and career. Check your personal papers to con­firm that they're in proper order. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22l: Social events will enhance your reputation. Your ability to charm others with n>tlf intelligent approach to life ~,~•ill l'l1•lble ynu tn open doors that were ch'"'d in the J'·l'l 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23·Nov. 211: You can make changes on your domestic scl'nC'. Friends and relatives won't be completely honest with you. Evaluate your motives. Refrain from over­spending on children or entertain· m<>nt.OOO 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21l: Your contribution to the clubs you're in\'oh•ed in will enhance your reputa­tion and bring you tlw recognition ,·ou require. You will be able to find solutions to other people's problems. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·)an. 19l: Direct your <'ncrh'Y into financial and pn•ll'ssil'n,ll advoncenwnt. D''l'<'ption i' ,,,.i,knt. Jl,• careful not to di\'ulge :o-\'l'l"l'l inf\'l'llhltit,n. Yr,ur lov..:•r m,1\' nn! l't..' h.•l!ing you till• \\'hl>k ~tory. 00 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 1Bl: fr,l\','1 will ,,nlight<'n you. Ad1•ice giwn by n•Jati\'es or close friends will help you understand the situation that surrounds you. Your observa­tions will be valuable. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20l: You can borrow money todar if needed. Take care of your personal papers and overdue accounts. Talk to superiors abf'IUt advancement and raises. Steer clear of get·rich·quick schemes. 000 

• 
-
IRONtCALL'<, 
BE5T WAY 15 TO 
BECOME. AN IN SOMETHING 
i·ou firsl thought. 00 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 221: You ,;hould wrill• a beautiful IO\'C letter to 1·our dl•ar one. Your passionate mood~ will be s.1tisfied by your mate. Ple,1sure 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Fellow 5 Hardly a blabbermouth 9 "Saturday Night Live" bit 14 Priest of the East 15 "R1torna v1ncitor" singer 16 Form of electric 
power 11 "I smell--!" 18 Farm feed 19 On-­
(succeeding) 20 Swizzle stick 22 Like some vans 24 Longer·llved 25 Interweave 26 Expo '70 Site 28 California event 
32 Boccaccio's "Life of--.. 35 Sills oHering 37 Confine Ja Liquid fat 39 Owned 40 Greenland base 
41 Meeting of ministers association 
42 Gump of the comics 43 Over 44 Tidbit 46 Nicholas Gage book 48 News med1a so Part of a 10·Down 54 Basketball stra\e(JY 57 PubliC fact: 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE D 
~~:..:..j.:::...j.:.~.:.j 
--. ~-----------------------------, 
• Tennessee stays 

•The men's basketball 
unbeaten in college 

team split their open­
football with a 28-24 

ing weekend matches 
victory over Arkansas. 

against Miami and 
Yale. 

-
PORTS 
p.IS 
p.I5 
THE 


• HOCKEY 
leers hold CCHA lead with 
three-point weekend I 
I 
By TED BASSANI shot to tie the game. His third goal of Sports Wrirer the game came 9:05 of the third, when he calmly lifted a rebound over a 
ThP sixth-ranked Notre Dame hock­sprawled-out Mike Savard to make the ey tnam maintained their first-place score 4-2. standing in the CCHA with a 6-2 win "The key was the timing of the over Bowling Green on Friday, fol­goals," said coach Dave Poulin. "The lowed by a tense 2-2 tie against No. 7 lirst one got us back to 1-1. The sec­Michigan on Saturday. ond one came late in the second to tie 
Notn~ Dame's record now stands at it at two. The third one gave us ll 8-1-2 (6-1-1 ), and their 13 points in breathing room at 4-2, so each goal conferencP have them in first place, was big for us." one point ahead of Michigan State. The key to Dhadphale's game is how ii 
The team's 6-2 win over Bowling he uses his 6-foot-3 frame to get in Green Friday was highlighted by good position to score what hockey 
II
senior Aniket Dhadphale's !irst career analysts often call "garbage goals." hat trick. After Adam Edinger gave the Garbage goals often come on the Falcons the early lead, Dhadphale got power play, when a team can outnum­the Irish on the board when he one­ber the other team in front of the net II timed a drop pass from Dan Carlson to get to rebounds. So, it should come under the crossbar to tie the game at as no surprise that Dhadphale leads 1-1. !lis other two goals came in typi­the team with four power play goals. cal fashion, on rebounds. With the As to how he manages to get in team trailing 2-1 late in the second proper position in front, Dhadphale period, Dhadphale went to the net and . The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
W1th a 6-2 win over Bowling Green and a 2-2 tie against Michigan, Chad Chipchase
scored on a rebound of Brian Urick's see HOCKEY I page 17 
and the Notre Dame hockey team retained their lead in the CCHA standings. 

• WoMEN's BAsKETBAll 
• WOMEN's SOCCER

ND shocks sixth-ranked UCLA Irish declaw
By ANTHONY BIANCO · Assisranr Sporrs Ediror 
Notre Dame guards Niele Ivey 
Wolverines 3-0 
and Danielle Green gave their team the sparkle to polish off 
ByJOEY CAVATO extra adrenalino as the sec­UCLA 99-82 on Saturday after­
Associate Spom Editor ond round is the farthest a 
noon. Confronting grips the 
Michigan team has ever goneBruins failed to capialize on, As the bright sun shined into the NCAA TournamentIvey and Green answered with a over Alumni Field Sunday "l think early on the excite­touch of their own to fill the afternoon, women's soccer ment of where you Ore at is agaps and give tho Irish a smooth coach Chris Petrucelli looked factor and for them it cer­
ride throughout the contest. 
for some of his veterans to tainly was," Petrucelli said.
Both scored career highs, Ivey shine. "As time went on we gotwith 25 points and 11 assists Seniors Monica Gerardo more control of the game." 
and Green with 23. 
and Shannon Boxx came Midway through the first
Starting the season with a No. 
through as they lead fourth­half Wolverine netminder17 ranking, the underdog Irish seeded Notre Dame to a 3-0 Carissa Stewart was living onbuilt on thHir home court advan­win over Michigan in the sec­the edge as Anne Makinentage to spark an intensity that 
ond round of the NCAA hit the cross bar and she 
saw them take an early 10-7 Tournament. used her face to stop
• lead against the sixth-ranked Gerardo scored two goals Gerardo from point-blankBruins. From that point on, 
and Boxx added a goal and range.
Notre Dame ever gave up con­two assists as the Irish domi­Gerardo didnOt miss hertrol. 
nated most of the action. next opportunity. Boxx"I was really pleased with our "Before ·the game I said to headed a Jen Grubb cornereffort," said head coach Muffet the team that you seniors kick Gerardo's way who fin­McGraw. "We came out with a this is the time ofyear when ished it to put the Irish onlot of intensity and we did not you guys have got to step up the scoreboard at 21:11.
play scared. I think they were and make it," Petrucelli said. Boxx, Gerardo and -some of the keys to the begin­"Those [Gerardo, Boxx and Vanderberg were active asning of the game." 
Laura Vanderberg] are the the seniors took control ofStealing a piece of freshman only three players on the the game. 
Ericka Haney's flash off the 
team that have won a nation­"Their midfield playedbench early on, Green, a starter, al championship and knows great today and they were abroke the game open with 5:21 what it takes to win. This is little quicker today,"left in the half on a layup and the time of year when they Michigan coach Debbie
the subsequent free throw to 
have to step up and they Belkin said. "We had somegive them their first double-digit obviously did. Those throe opportunities early on but welead, 32-21. Haney's first colle­debut party last week in a game the bench Saturday for her first had great games." got tired and Notre Dame isgiate minutes gave her team an leading 19-point showing game at Notre Dame. McGraw The No. 18 Wolverines tournament experience."
immediate impact, hitting her against Estonia in Notre Dame's was impressed with her play came out looking for an "[think that we stepped upfirst field goal early on to give last exhibition, saw fellow fresh­coming off the injury. 
l,J.pset as they had some of a little bit," Boxx said. "Wethe Irish the 10-7 lead. Her bas­man Sherisha Hills hit her stride "I thought for a freshman in the better scoring chances in know that we have to helpketball also closed out both this game. Hills suffered a con­her very first game, not being the early going. Michigan our team win a nationalhalves, hitting a jumper in the cussion before the first exhibi­able to play in the exhibition 
lost to Notre Dame 1-0 in championship. We're the
first half and then a trey at the tion game two weeks ago in a games, did an outstanding job," double overtime three weeks only ones that have had aclosing buzzer to cement the collision with Green in pregame she said. "She didn't have any ago and played with someIrish lead at 12. warmups. Sitting out the rest of 
see IRISH I page 16 Haney, who had her Irish the preseason, Hills played off see W. B-BALL I page 14 

VS. LSU, vs. Western Michigan, at Vanderbilt, 
~­November 21, 1:30 p.m. -~ November 20, 7 p.m. November 21, 7:30p.m.
SPORTS 
ATA 
NCAA Second Round, at Butler,
-
vs. Toledo, 

vs. Nebraska, November 18, 7 p.m. 
November 18, 7 p.m. 

'..li
GLANCE 
November 21, TBA 




