¦ Cameron Diaz, John Favreau and 
¦ Class of2001 Quiz Show 
Monday

Christian Slater are among those getting caught up in some "Very Bad Things." 
Check out the top finishers of Sunday's quiz 
DECEMBER 7,

show test. 
Scene• 10 

News•3 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 63 

By ERICA THESING graduat11 students and one environment I was brought up NL·ws Wriler prof'essor. Fifteen or the par­in," she said. Licipan ts are candidates, Wilschke, whose l'ather is 
Nolrf! Dame's Hitn of which means that they were Catholic, said that her family Christian lnitialion l'or Adults baptized into another was vnry supportive of her IHCIAI program officially wel­Christian religion hut arc now decision. comnd its largnsl group ol' seoking membership in the "We're one of those Easter candidat1is and calnchume­Catholic Church. and Christmas families, so nalns Sunday during the Junior candidatn Elizabeth they were excited for me that 
11 :45 a.m. Mass al the Wilschke was raised in her it was something I was excited llasilira of' llw Sacrnd llcarl. mother's Episcopalian church, about and wanted lo make a 
Tlw 41 people participating but began to consider a con­part of my life," she said. in l h is yI\ a r's program are version to lhn Catholic l'aith Besides candidates, the part ol' u spncial tradition at al'Lnr sho spent a summer in other participants in the HCIA Notrn Damn, said Tami Ireland. program are baptized S,·hmitz, HCIA director l'or Wilschke. tlwn a student at Catholics wishing to receive Campus Ministry. tlrn University or Michigan, the sacraments of' first com­
"Tlw HCIA program has transferred to Notre Dame munion and confirmation. lwnn a r11ally rich tradition at last ynar and began to attend These people comprise the this place, and I think pnople Mass and bncome more majority of Notre Dame's arl' attractnd lo it," slrn said. immersncl in Catholic tradi­HCIA program and arc called "I think p1wpl!~ ar<) trying lo tions. calechumenatcs. dnf'irrn tlw faith in llwir Iiv1is." "I rnaliznd that I started to Sophomore catechumenato 
This y1\ar's group consists f(rnl much more comfortable lain Gould received his first primarily of undergraduate in the Catholic environment studnnts, in addition to a few than I harl ever fell in the see RCIA / page 6 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Kevorkian stirs controversy again 
By ALISON HEINZ theology professor Maura News Writer Hyan. 
Kevorkian faces charges 

After the Nov. 22 edition of' first-dngrne murdor and of CBS's "60 Minutos," Dr. delivering controllml sub­Jack Kevorkian had won the stances. lie rnlcased the first round of his fight to videotape to force force a court ruling on Michigan's courts to take a euthanasia. stand on euthanasia. 
Fifty-two year-old The circumstancos or Michigan resident Thomas Youk 's death differ from Youk, who suffered from Kevorkian's assisted sui­Lou Gehrig's disease, enlist­cides because tlrn doctor ed Kevorkian's aid Sept. 17 actually injected the lethal to end his life via lethal substancn himsnlf. In tho injection. The CBS news­other cas(is patitints did it magazirni aired a videotape themselvns using a machirrn of Youk's death, including rlesigned by the doctor. Kevorkian's role in·it. If' Kevorkian is acquitt1HI 
Now, Michigan's infamous of the first-clegren murder "'Dr. Death" is getting his charge, unprecedented con­day in court -exactly what trovn rsies will ensue. In he wanted. And the jury's order f'or thn jury to find ruling in this case may nlicit Kevorkian not guilty, mem­an outcry from religious bers must in effect ignore groups across the nation. Michigan law, them is no 
"Religious groups that doubt that the injection have spoken out on the sub­ending Youk's lifo was both ject have been fairly united pre-meditated and dnlilrnr­in their rejection of legal­ate, which falls undnr the ized physician-assisted sui­cide and euthanasia," said see SUICIDE/ page 6 

AFP Photo 

Dr. Jack Kevorkian, pictured in 1991, eyes his infamous assisted suicide machine. 
Go to work: Internships provide valuable experience 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY ing that w1111t on in govcrn­
employers are looking for stu-· skills, self-confidence and lo As,i,1Jnt News Editor nrnnt." she said. "It gave me dents with work-related and develop realistic goals and insight into local, state and professional job experiences." expnctations. 
For senior Tysus Jackson. a national government and more Typically, employnrs offer "Students gnl to learn that Saint Mary's political sciP111:11 dirnction as to what I wanted to more money to studPnts with when you go into a company. and sociology double-major, the do. 1ld't with the inside scoop on experience in the field, said they giw you small assignnmnts politics ol' govt\rllllWlll 1:a1111• to Uw political scnne." Simmerman. to start out with," said lifo al'tnr slw int,,nwd in the lnt1ir11ships have become a For students who havnn 't per­Sirnnwrman. "0ncn they know
pos.itions have deadlines as early
Indiana gowrnor's ollicn during valuable asset f'or students Lo formed well academically in col­how you perform tasks and arn
as November.
tlw sumnrnr of' 11)97. add to their resumes and gradu­legn, the internship can help detail orientml, the employers
The benefits of internships
"lntnrning in tlrn govornor's al11 school applications. compensate. begin to give you bigger pro­
extend to helping students build
office nxposcd a lot lo me, Susan Simmerman, assistant "Students can compensate for jects. Working your way up b
their resumes to make them
including the opporlunitfos that dirnclor for Carner Dnvnlopment a low GPA with professional part of' tlw lnarning expnriencn."
more marketable for post-grad­
cxist in stale and local govPrn­at Saint Mary's, rocommends work experience," said "I wish every student did at
uate employment or graduate
ment." said .Jackson. "I had lhn students begin taking part in Simmerman. ''Otherwise, it is least onn or more than ono
programs.
chancn lo do a lot of networking internships at least during their hard for those with low GPAs internship," said Simmerman.
"Some employers hire intnrns 
with young Dnmocrnts and to sophomorn year and begin look­and no work experience to sell "It's a chance to explore differ­
after they have graduated from 
work with the lop peoplo in the ing for an internship at least themselves to employers." ent careur options and work
college," said Simmerman. 
stall! government. four months before they want to Internships also offer students
"Internships serve as great
"I saw first-hand the n•)gotiat-intern, although some summer an opportunity to develop more see INTERN/ page 4 
resume buildr,rs since most 
page 2 The Observer• INSIDE Monday, December 7, 1998 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Georgetown to halt condom use demonstrations 



Do you see vvhat I see? 
Maybe it's the weather, maybe it's the 
workload. but it sum doesn't feel like 
Christmas around here. 

The decorations are a valiant attempt, and 
it's nicr to hear Nat 

Colleen Gaughcn 
King Cole float through 

Assistant Viewpoint 
the hall. but some­

Editor
thing's missing. Thero 
is a selfishness perme­

ating campus that just doesn't go with the 
spirit of Christmas. 

We're too busy. We have classes and final 
projects and meetings and parties and dead­
lines and obligations. We just don't have the 
time right now, maybe later. We're not really 
thinking of others, and if we do it's with a 
frustration of time constraint because hey, 
WE have things to do. 

I wonder what would have happene'1,.i4 
Mary was just too busy to listen to the Angel 
Gabriel's message. Or if John the Baptist just 
couldn't fit those trips to the .Jordan Hiver in 
his schedule. Sorry, not today. What if Jesus 
came and nobody was preparPd? Would they 
have recognized him if they weren't paying 
attention? 

We are in the second week of Advent. I love 
Advent. The colors, the wreath, the candles, 
the concept. My family has an old, very loved 
Advent wreath with four small but special 
words inscribed around it: peace, joy, love 
and hope. I think the most important one for 
this season is hope. That's what we're sup­
posed to be doing. Hoping. Waiting. 
Expecting. Anticipating the arrival of the 
Christ Child. But we can't! WE have things to 
do. 

Imagine if we put as much time and energy 
into spiritually preparing for his arrival as we 
put into preparing for finals, or socializing, or 
working out, or whatever it is that we do. It's 
not that difficult, really. It's only a matter of 
taking a moment to reflect, think, feel. Or 
attending some of the fabulous yuletide 
events going on around campus. 

There's the Handbell Choir concert, 
penance services, the Chorale and Chamber 
Orchestra performance of Handel's Messiah, 
and my personal favorite, the annual Posada 
procession. And check out Father Jim Lies' 
Campus Ministry column from last Thursday. 
He writes of Advent much more eloquently 
than l can, and there is detailed information 
about campus-wide spiritual events. (If you 
don't feel like digging through your trash for 
Thursday's edition, please feel free to stop by 
the basement of South Dining Hall. We have 
plenty of copies.) 

Sunday was the feast of Saint Nicholas. In 
many cultures, children place their shoes by 
the door or the fire in hopes of a gift {and in 
fear of charcoal) from the blessed saint. My 
family celebrated this tradition when my 
brothers and sisters and I were young, and 
my mom and her best friend still exchange 
gifts every year on this day. They make the 
time for one another, for anticipation, despite 
the fact that they have 12 children between 
the two of them. 

Snow would definitelv be nice. And the 
lights around campus ci:re beautiful. Nat King 
Cole can 11oat through my hall anytime. But 
we don't need snow or lights or music to 
make it feel like Christmas. We need to be 
less self-centered and more Christ-centered, 
and then maybe it will start to feel like 
Christmas around here. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily lhose ofThe Observer. 
¦ TOOAY 's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Bill Uniowski  Mike Vanegas  
Christine Kraly  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Mike Connolly  M. Shannon Ryan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddit> Llull  Kevin Dalum  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during rx.am and va.c.Hion periods. The Observer is a member of rtie Asrnciared Pr(!!.S. All reproduction rights are r~servl"'d. 
WASHINGTON 
Following a letter-writing campaign to the parents of first-year students and a letter from the Archdiocese of Washington to thr university, Georgetown has decided to suspend demonstrations of condom use during Peer Education sessions, according to Dean of Students James Donahue. 
Donahue has asked the Peer Education Program to review its prac­tices. 
Health Education Director Carol Day, who oversees the Peer Education Program, said she was surprised by the decision. According to Day, the program had received mostly positive responses from students who chose to 
,, comment on Peer Education activi­ties, and very few negative reactions. The move comes after meetings between Donahue and Brian Sayers, founder of the Committee to Reform Peer Education. The committee was formed in the beginning of October to 
protest what it viewed as a faulty focus in the orientation sessions, dur­ing which students demonstrated the application of condoms using pro­duce. The demonstrations have been part of Peer Education since l 989. 
Donahue said the demonstrations have been suspended and that "we will explore the extent to which dis­cussion about the use of the condoms is essential for achieving the health goals of the program." 
When asked if demonstrations might ever once again be part of the program, he replied, "For right now, no." 
In late October, the Committee sent a letter to the parents of all first-year students which stated that the Committee was "deeply saddened" by the content of peer education, and expressed frustration that its con­cerns on the matter "had been ignored" by the administration. The letter urged parents to contact the office of University President Leo O'Donovan, to register their concern. 
Tim Sheldon, a Peer Educator. said he was disappointed when he heard of Donahue's decision. He said he felt that an outside body -the i\.rchdiocese -was unfairly influenc­ing the university. 
It is against Roman Catholic teach­ing to use condoms for birth control and to engage in sexual intercourse outside of marriage. Donahue called the church's stance on condom use to prevent disease a "complicated dis­tinction to be explored." 
¦ COLUMBIA UN!VEF:SITY 
School apparel protests sweatshops 
NEW YORK, N.Y 

A clothesline displaying a variety of Columbia sweatshirts and T-shirts hung in College Walk this week. The clothes carried signs such as "This sweatshirt costs $51.98. A Mexican worker earns $0.54 an hour," and were part of a campaign by Columbia Students Against Sweatshops [CSAS] to urge the university to adopt a new Code of Conduct, to insure that clothing with the Columbia name is made under humane conditions. The CSAS collected nearly 600 petition signatures in support of the new Code of Conduct, under which the university would patronize only companies that meet certain requirements. The Code calls for a provision to ensure workers receive a living wage, a safe and healthy working environment with access to clean air and drinking water, reasonable work hours, and have the right to orga­nize. The Code also addresses child labor, women's rights in the workplace, and environmental concerns. 
¦ PRtNCITON UNiVERSlTY Scientists probe Einstein's brain 
PRINCETON, N.J. 

Albert Einstein's brain now floats in a glass jar in the 
Princeton Medical Center. Dr. Thomas Harvey, who per­
formed Einstein's autopsy in 1955, said that after Einstein's 
death the pathology department at PMC seized the opportu­
nity to preserve and study his brain. Harvey has since 
passed the care of the brain on to his successor, Dr. Elliot 
Krause. Krause is responsible for processing research 
requests for Einstein's brain tissue. Krause said he intends 
to encourage research on the brain until Einstein's mind is 
better understood. According to Harvey, past findings have 
not been particularly conclusive. "It's difficult to get a statis­
tical evaluation because there is no other genius' brain to 
compare it to. So we compare it to the brains of average 76 
year-old men. Of course we in the scientific. community are 
hoping that another genius will pass away and make his 
brain available," he said. 
¦ UNlVERSITY OF ARIZONA Strict alcohol policy may hurt students 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
UA students who binge drink and drive may face increased jail time and stiffer fines because of a new "extreme DUI" law passed Tuesday. Under the new legisla­tion, people with blood alcohol levels higher than 0.18 can land themselves in jail for up to a month. But instances of UA students caught behind the wheel with such high alcohol levels are few, said Cmdr. Brian Seastone of the University of Arizona Police Department. "Most of our DUis are 0.16 or 
0.17 at the highest," Seastone said. UA police statistics show 36 DUI arrests on campus since August. University police DUI officer Luis Olivarria said binge drinking happens, "but not on a regular basis." Attaining a blood-alcohol content of 
0.18 or higher requires heavy drinking, he said. For a 160­pound person, it takes seven to eight drinks to reach a 0.18 blood alcohol level, he said. An average drink consists of one 12-ounce beer, glass of wine or shot of hard alcohol. 
¦ Omo STATE UNIVERSITY Court indicts man on child porn charges 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Steven Eric Nash, fired from Ohio State in May 1997, was indicted on nine charges related to child pornography. The incriminating materials were gathered and stored on an OSU computer used by Nash while he was an Ohio State employee. Nash's supervisor, .John Greisberger, said it was accidental that the pornographic images were found. "What happened was that he asked our computer specialist for assistance with his computer because it wasn't working right," Greisberger said. "And when she was working on his computer, she noticed all these images which very obviously were not appropriate." The images showed "minors under the age of eighteen years engaged in sexual intercourse ... a minor under the age of eighteen years engaged in follatio with another person ... minors in a state of nudity where there was a lewd exhibition of the genitals and/or graphic focus on the genitals," according to his indictment. 

¦ Sourn BEND WEATHE!i ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather 5 forecast for daytune conditions and high temperatures The AccuWeather® forecast for 0000, Monday, Dec. 7. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
,,v~-•-···-••·'•• 
'·•--.,~-· ., 
B 
i ,,iW&f 

Monday ~<43 32 Tuesday ~);4;f, ;3( 
i: 

Wednesday~ 
1~:~ .~~••• 
Thur~day c£C1. 39 27; 
·' ) 
............ .a...&. ............ 
ID 1998 AccuWaather1 Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY l'rP6BIJ~:
Fri"ay ,, (·')~ 42 2({; 
® © D . c:::J fIJ E2.'J . 

High Low Showers Rein T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
\.5'...rJ"-~~··'--"....._f \r' 
1/ia MSQciated Press 

Annapolis 71 55 Hartford 70 40 New York 70 52 Aspen 17 -1 O Helena 32 16 Orlando 84 60
4~-~9~Q{) ~ 6 
Boise 36 26 Malibu 61 43 Phoenix 56 73 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt, Cloudy Cloudy 
Detroit 46 34 Mobile 77 61 Seattle 46 36 
Via Associated Press GraphiCsNel 
----------~----------------w-
Monday, December 7, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC 'gets stuffed' on nutrition 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE News Writer 
Responding to weeks or mysteri­ous advertising around campus, more than 11)0 studcnLs came Lo "get stuffed" with information about nutrition and eating disorders Friday in the lobby of Le Mans llall. 
Advertising was a key component for encouraging allendance at an event that might otherwise be ignored, according io senior Marshawna Moore, who was involved in planning the project. 
"We figurnd that it might deter a lot of people from attending if they knew it was about health-aware ness," said Moore. "When people have pm-conceptions about a topic, it may not be as effective. We knew that if people did not have those pre-conceptions, the support would be stronger." 
AdverLising was done in three increments. the first of which hap­pened prior to Thanksgiving break. 
"We gave people a little more i11formation each time," Moore said. 
"First. we just said, 'Get Stuffed.' Then we gave them a date. Then we gave them a time. We lured people in. What we·rn finding out today is ihat peopln wanted to comn, wanted to liud out what Get Stuffed was all about." 
Get Stuffed was organized by 12 students who recognized a problem with eating disorders and nutrition on campus, according to senior information table. "/\ lot of people real beauty. It's a good way to getMary Clare Lucy, who helped plan don't know how lo deal with it, and information across, too. 1 see a lotthe event. 
lhcy want to help." of information around campus
"With finals coming up, we knew A main emphasis of the informa­about [eating disorders], but I don't
that people wouldn't be eating 
tion distributed concerned lhe effect honestly think a lot of people payright," 
the media has on young women's attention to it. !This] makes it morn
Lucy said. "That's why it was 
idea of a healthy weight. A video, of a reality."
important for us to do this now. We 
entitled "Slim Hopes," dealt with Junior Kate Dolezan had mixed
wanted people to know that fat is an 
the effects of advertising on dieting feelings.
important part uf their diet." 
and eating disorders in the linitcd "It's good to get the message out,
Fatty foods, such as pizza, candy States. but if someone really has an eating
and chips, were provided at the 
"The av(.,"fage American woman is problem, they're going to think that
event alongside information about 
a size 12," said Lanigan. "What is they're fat. no matter what informa­eating disorders. 
most important is getting basic tion they're given hem," she said.
"Most people ask what to do if 
nutrition in your diet. The impor­Organizers of the event hope that
they have a friend who has an eat­tant thing is to be healthy." it sparked enough interest on cam­
ing disorder," said senior Moira Student response was mixed pus to generate similar futurn
Lanigan, who was working at the 
about the event. events. 


"It's a really good "It's a topic of great concern," way to make people Moore said. "We may try and ostab­aware," said sopho­lish a group that will deal with this more Andrea Romero. on a constant basis. What is impor­"It shows that the beau­tant right now is that people know ty we see on TV isn't it is a great concern." 
v~.44M4-, 
We'timc44,~ 

~a,d,~ 
au~. 7ak 
ca,i.ea,d, ~ 4­

reat tu,ee, m Sfu:wt-. 
~aa ©IYlll l!::.©W@ij !lill!lfl@!JuU~ @l©~v @lfl~v ®i1fllhi11 V@~Bliil &I. '1.0®is'.J.§ 
~r-----.---------------------1 
r 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 7, 1998 
I 
I Intern 
continued from page 1 
environments. Even if a student 
ha1-a bad i.nternship experi­
ence, it lets them realize that 
maybe that is not the line of 
work they are int!~rested in." 
Even if students are undecid­ed about a career path. an internship is still a good option to explore, she added. 
Saint Mary's senior Marshawna Moore said her internship over the past three summers with the Department of Child and Family Services in Chicago will be a welcome addition to her resume and graduate school applications. 
Moore's internship is normal­ly offered only to people with master's degrees, making it even more impressive. 
"I've worked more with court logistics this past summer, arranging hearings for sf41ing and parental visits and termi­nating parental rights," said Moore. "This experience has helped me to realize that I don't want to work in Lhe social work field but rather possibly pursue a career in the sociology of criminology." 
Some internship opportuni­ties are unpaid positions, which presents a problem to students seeking summer employment and needing to make money. 
"Even if they are unpaid posi­tions, internships are still worth so much," said Simmerman. "Look at how much you learn in the classroom and you aren't getting paid for that." 
Students need to be creative if they want to take an unpaid internship during the summer, said Simmerman. By finding an evening job that is paid, such as 

one in retail or food service, a 
sLudent can free up daytime 
hours in which to do an intern­
ship. 
Another method Simmerman 
recommended for Saint Mary's 
students looking for internships 
is accessing the Alumnae 
Resource Network [ARN]. 
Students can use the ARN, a 
computerized database of Saint 
Mary's Alumnae that includes 
names, addresses, telephone 
numbers, career path and major 
'MANY TIMES FACULTY 
MEMBERS HAVE CON­

NECTIONS FOR INTERNSHIP 
OPPORTUNITIES AT PIA.CES 
WHERE OTHER STUDENTS 
HAVE INTERNED.' 
SUSAN SIMMERMAN 
ASSJSTAi\T DIRECTOR C1REER 
AND PLACEMHNT (SMC) 
.~ 

of nlumnae, as a networking tool. 
"We have many alumnae who are willing to help students find and create internships," she said. 
If an internship is not adver­tised, students can put together a proposal to present to their contact •at the company or orga­nization, said Simmerman. This is a technique commonly used with alumnae connections. 
Jackson offered advice to other students seeking intern­ships. 
"I suggest leaving your options open to what you want to do," said Jackson. "My internship last summer was with the National Park Service in Boston as a park ranger. Even though I don't want to be a park ranger, I 
learned so much and since I 
want to work for the State 
Department one day, it's useful 
for me to be able. to put on my 
resume that I've worked for the 
government already." 
Most students who come to 
the CCDC in pursuit of intern­
ships arc looking for leads, 
while others may choose to go 
through academic departments 
using resources provided by 
professors, said Simmerman. 
"Many times faculty members have connections for internship opportunities at places where other students have interned," said Simmerman. 
Internship opportunities range from paid or unpaid summer positions to having an internship during the academic year to earn college credit. Credits awarded for the internship are determined by cvaluaLing the amount of time spent and tasks and experience the internship provided. Together, the student and their academic advisor determine the number of credits that can be earned. 
In cases where the internship will not earn a student coilege credits, such as if the internship is not a part of the student's academic major, the Liberal Arts Internship Program {LAlP] offers students another form of compensation. 
The LAIP provides structure fur an internship by presenting the student and employer with evaluation forms. The CCDC then presents the student with a certificate documenting the internship since no credit is received and it is not mentioned on a student's transcript. 
"Some employers won't take on an intern if the College does­not recognize the internship," said Simmerman. "This is where the Liberal Arts Internship Program comes in." 


The NEW LIBRARY WEB 

IS COMING! 
Try it out at <http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs/> 


Monday, December 7, 1998 C0MP!ll:.D FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
¦ Womo NEWS BRiHS 
Sacajawea included amongproposals for new coin 
W J\SII I N(/l'()N 
Sacajaw«·a, tlrn Shoshonn tonn-agor who 
acrompa11i1•d Pxplornrs M1!riwntlwr Lewis 
and William Clark to the l'acilic Ocnan almost 
two rim Luri1•s ago, gazes snrennly l'rom a prn­
posl'd dl'sign f'or the 1ww dollar coin. Slw 
looks ovl'r lwr shmtlcl11r, as if rnady to go. I lnr 
i11l'a11t son slnt'ps on lwr back. It's among six 
finalists for tlrn gold-r.olornd coin that 
i\11wrica11s will lind in tlwir pockets starting 
in ;woo. No onn knows «!xactly what I 6-year­
old Sarajawl'a, who joi1wd tlrn Lewis and 
C:lark oxpndition in 1804. looked likn. But all 
tlw proposals. according lo U.S. Mint Director 
Philip !Ji«d1I. "ar1• rnalistic depictions of 
Nativ1~ r\mnrican wonwn. Tlwy am attractive, 
but thl'y ar1• not romanticizPd," Im said. 
Starting Monday, Anwricans can son Lim 
dPsigns 011 tlw Mint's lntnrnnt sitn and selncl 
thPir prPforl'lll'.l'S. 
JFK called Nixon 'psycho' 
SAN FHANCISCO 
l'rPsid,int John 1:. Kennedy and former Gov. 
Iid1111111cl G. "Pal" Brown called Hichard Nixon 
"nuts" and ''psycho" in a taped telcphorrn 
1·1J11Vl'l'Sitlion aft11r Brown's victory over Nixon 
in Lim l 9(J2 govnrnor's race, lhc San 
l·rarn:isrn Examinnr rnporlcd Sunday. "You 
roducnd him to the nut housB," said Kennedy. 
af'Lnr Nixon's infamous "last nows confer­
n111:1•" soon after his :HI0,000-voLe loss to 
Brown. "That last f'arewnll sp<Hich of' his ... 
shows that lw !JPlongs on the couch." Al'ter 
tlw dnl'Pat, Nixon bitWrly told reporters: "You 
won't lmvll Nixon to kick arnuncl anymore." 
Tim conversation was included on tapes 
rnleascd last month by tho John F. Kennedy 
1.ihrary in Boston. On thu tapes, Brown also 
told lhn presidnnt that humiliating Nixon was 
what Kmrnndy had wanted. Kennedy defeat­
ed Nixon for the presidency in 1960. 
Smugglers jettison immigrants 
HOME 
A Hussian ship rescuBd 50 illegal immi­
grants from tlw waters off Malta af'tnr they 
wt~rc thrown overboard by their smugglers, 
acrnrding to a report Sunday. Ten people 
worn missing and fnared drowned. The 
s111ugglnrs apparnntly panicked when they 
sa.w the Hussian nrnrchan1 ship approach 
Saturday night in tho M(l(literranean, about 
90 mil!1s soulh of' Mitlta, according to Italian 
HAI statP tnlnvision. Officials aboard an 
Italian naval vessd helping in tlrn rescue said 
t.lwrP was litlln hopo thn search would I.ind 
any survivors Sunday in Lim rough, cold 
wal!irs. BAI rPportPd. Most of the immigrants 

¦ VENEZUELA 

Venezuelans elect former coup leader 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 

CARACAS, 
Former Lt. Col. llugo Chavoz, who staged a bloody coup attempt against the government six ynars ago, was elected president of' Venozunla Sunday -dealing a stun­ning blow lo the political and economic <:stablish­mont that has ruled the country during 40 yoars ol' democracy. 
With (>5 percent of' the vote counted, Chavez had Sh percent compar,1d lo 39 percent !'or Yale-educated businessman llenrique Salas Homer, according to official results from the National Electoral Council. 
People danced in the slreels, set off' fireworks and honked Urnir horns in celebration. 
"Venezuela is being born again," Chavez declared as soon as the election results were revealed. Ile made an appeal for calm on tlrn streets and said he would pursue prudent economic policies. 
"Once again the people of Simon Bolivar have shown themselves to be a grand pBople," he told the Vcncvision television net­work. Chavez often invokes South American liberation hero Bolivar in his speech­In an effort to head off a es. Chavez victory, both the 
Because of Chavez's center-left Democratic meteoric rise in the polls, Action Party and the cen­the vote had turned into a ter-right COPEi Party confrontation between rich dumped their respective 
and poor -and a warning candidates during the past sign for the rest of Latin week and threw their sup­America. port to Salas, who had been "These are historic elec­running second in tho polls. tions. Nothing like these In 1992, Chavez tried and Plcctions has happened in failed to overthrow Venezuela's political histo­Venezuela's democratically ry," said U.S. Ambassador elected government. His John Maisto. candidacy has blown a hole 
For the first time 1wer, through the conventional nnitlrnr of Venezuela's two wisdom that said democra­traditional parties fielded cy and free markets were 
candidates. inescapable in Latin America. 

Chavez on Sunday cast his vote amid some 1,000 sup­porters roaring, "Chavez! Chavez!" and "Viva Venezuela!" As he drove away, throngs of teenagers chased after his white van. 
The voling Sunday was described as orderly, and it appeared turnout was high. Street celebrations broke out throughout the country Sunday evening: people donned Chavez's trademark red parachutist's beret and hung Vennzuelan llags from balconies. 
"Down with the oli­garchy!" shouted one woman standing outside Chavez's Caracas head­quarters. 
Reports that Chavez sup­porters would stage violent protests if their candidate loses prompted a call to peace from Presid,rnt Hal'ael Caldera. 
"The governmenl and armed forces have promised to respect tlrn electoral results. That respect will bn sacrosanct." Caldera vowed, adding that "we demand that tho results be accepted in peace." 
¦ UNITED KINGDOM 

U.N. pressures Libyan handover 
ASSOCIATED PRESS "J think you could sum up our mood message that we are serious about 
as one of qualified optimism," Cook this trial --there is no hidden agen­
LONDON said in, an interview with British da." 
Two Libyans long wanted in the Broadcasting Corp. television. Annan also spoke with Secrntary of' bombing of a Pan Am jet over Libya, the United States and Britain State Madeleine Albright by teln­Lockerbie, Scot.land, may be in cus­have agreed in principle that Scottish phone, according t(I a U.N. statement tody by Doc. 21, the 10th am1ivers1u·y judges will hear the case at a special faxed to Tho Associated Prnss. "Wti of the disaster, Britain's foreign sec­court in the Netherlands. But if con­are well on the way to resolving the retary said Swtday. victed, Libya wants the suspects jailed problem," the stattlment quoted him 
U.N. Secretnry-General Kofi Annan in the Netherlands or in Libya. Cook as telling Albright. spent Saturday in Libya, discussing told BBC television that Britahl will State-run Libyan Jfadio, meanwhile, with Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi not budge on the demand by quoted an unidentified oflicial in the 
and his foreign socretary a handovor Washington and London that any sen­Foreign Liaison Secretariat, Libya's 
of thtJ two men suspected by Britain tences be snrved in a Scottish jail. equivaltmt of a foreign ministry, as and the United States in the 1988 Annan and Gadhafl, who met in a saying that ''a solution to this crisis is explosion that killed 270 people. desert tent in Libya, failed to reach a within reach." 
British Foreign Secretary Robin deal on handing over the suspects. He credited Annan's talks with 
Cook said it would be a great comfort Arman, however, said he believed an Omar al-Muntasser, Libya's foreign to relntives of the victims·of P,m Am agreement could be concluded soon. minister. who mnl Saturday with Flight 103 if Abdel Basset Ali al­Cook said he spoke with Annan on Annan before the socretary-general Megrahi and Lamon Khalifa Fhimah Sunday a11.d was. "encouraged by what went on to the talks with Gadhafi. are brought to trial by the anniver­he tells me.'' Annan, he said, succeed­The broadcast was monitored by the sary. ed_ in getting across· to Gadhafi "the BBC. 
The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS Monday, December 7, 1998 
Even so, assisted suicide is still not widely accepted.
Suicide 
Many people feel that per­
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Members of the Glee Club sing Christmas carols at the lighting of Carroll Hall's 30-foot Christmas tree. The 
new tradition also included a catered dinner for the dorm. 
RCIA 
continued from page l 
sacrament at Notre Dame and hopes to complete his mem­bership in tlrn Church during his time here. 
"I was baptized here when I was a baby, and I thought it would be cool to finish up the sacraments while I'm here," he said. "It's something that I felt was missing in my life. I wanted to complete the jour­ney of the Catholic Church and this is a way to do that." 
Each candidate and cate­chumenate has a sponsor who 

attends the weekly meetings and aids in the exploration of faith questions. The candi­dates and catechumenates may chose their own sponsor or receive one through a cam­pus ministry volunteer. 
Wilschke selected a friend as a sponsor. 
"She was already a big part of life, and it's just expanded now," Wilschke said. "We talk about what it means to be doing what I'm doing. She has a lot of insight into what I'm going through right now and what it means in mv life." 
The program b~gins with the period of inquiry in August, when anyone inter­ested in the program attends 
Business eo,u•Fteil, 

Special to The Observer 

The Notre Dame C-0uncil on Intern·ationaEU.u$'Jness+ Development will sponsor a Women in EntrepreneuriaHsm ' today a,t 5 p.m. .·... ··.. .. < . ;• ··\ • <,. ; ·> 
Guest speakers at the conference J1'lcludi:, Dru.,NJilhy,,chlef , financial officer for-PapaJohn's Pizza, Car~nankros, ~resi­dent and owner of. CCP Financial J?lannirtg ~epyice~•>and ·· Maureen Muldoon, owner of MJM Meetjngs and Special Events. ..· .. . 
These entrepreneurial women will present an overvt~w of· careers, successes and motivational tactics. · 
The conference will take place inJhe J9rdan ..~udit?riu~ of the College of Business Administration Buildip.g on cam• pus. It is open to the publk. .. . . ..•···.. .·· · 
Started in the spring o.f 1989; the/l'~otte Dattiq;J::ouncU.o.n International Business Development is the largest student ' academic organization atthe University. ·· · ·· 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 
IWESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 10, 1998 
Friday, December 11, 1998 Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128. 
weekly sessions to learn more about the Catholic faith. The rite of welcome, which began with Sunday's mass and con­cludes at the beginning of Lent, follows the period of inquiry. The rite of welcome allows the candidates and catechumenates to further study the Catholic foith. 
The third portion of the pro­gram, the rite of initiation, occurs during Lent and culmi­nates with the received sacra­m en ts at the Easter Vigil Mass. After Easter, the partic­ipants continue in a fourth stage, mystagogia, where they live out their Christian faith. 
continued from page 1 
statutes of the stat.e of Michigan. 
Despite the clarity of the law, there is speculation among members of the legal community that Kevorkian will indeed be acquitted. Kevorkian has many support­ers who feel that he <loes nothing wrong by helping others to end their suffering at their own request. 
Members of the religious community, on the other hand, find it impossible to justify Kevorkian's practice. 
"Ill expect the Roman Catholic Church in Michigan to continue to speak out against the practice of euthanasia and to argue against legalizing physician­assisted suicide and euthana­sia no matter what the out­come of this trial is," Hyan said. 
With the Youk ease, the reason for protest is the fact that Kevorkian performed direct and active euthanasia, not an assisted suicide. 
l)allenge Yoursel 
·····... ·.. needs men and women/ Boston area. s and talents while devefopin h1g offers opportunity for p~ ard, and a liveable stipend a 
tie Sisters of the Assumptfo 
ontact: Voluntt:er Coordina.to. 
214 E.30th St. .New York, NY. 10016 (212) 889-4310 
forming assisted suicides compromises the role of' the healer. Other religious rea­sons for protest of the proce­dure, according to Hyan. am belief in the sanctitv of human life and in Goct·s· sov­ereignty over life and death. 
Non-religious reasons also abound. for example, Kevorkian's patients are nof. carefully screened. HP did not know all of his patients and not all of his them were suf­fering from terminal illness when they sought his help. 
Part of the reason that physician-assisted suicides are so controversial is the fact that no regulations exist governing the procedure. 
The outcome of Kevorkian's trial may lead to the estab­lishm1mt of such regulations 
if  the  court  ruins  in  
Kevorkian's favor.  
Although  Kevorkian  has  

sought the aid of def'ensH advisors, he plans to defend himself in court. The prelimi­nary examination is sched­uled for Dec. 9. Kevorkian has agreed not to take part in any deaths until then. 
Monday, December 7, 1998 The Observer• NEWS page 7 
Investigation proves British documentary fake 
Associated l're<s 
LONDON 

A prize-winning British documentary broadcast on Urn CBS program "60 Minutes" about drug running from Colombia was a l'nko, nn investigation has con­cluded. · 
Makers of' "The Conmiction" paid actors to portray <lrug dnalors, faked locations, and falsely claimed llwro wus 11 new heroin route from Colombia to Britain. thn invustigation found, London's Guardian nr.wsJrnpcr rcportr.cl Saturday. 
Tim rlm:mrnrntary. mad1-1 by a British production company, Carlton Communications. for the British nntwork lndn1w11dnnt Tel(wision. was investigated al'tnr Tlw G111Lrclian r.hallengl'd its authenticity in a scirins of artidos in May. 
Thn nnwpapnr rnports inspired Carlton tu form an indi•pmHlnnt pa1wl of' lawy1m; and TV producers to i11vcsligatc the program. The panel's report was released over the weekend. 
The Guardian said Carlton Communications broad­casting director Nigel Walmsley is returning eight national and international awards won by the docu­mentary. 
"'WH are refunding overseas broadcasters who bought 'The Connection."' Tho Guardian quoted Walmsley as saying. 
Steve Kroft anchored the "60 Minutes" report that aired purls of the documentary in June 1997. 
"60 Minutes" spokesman Kevin Tedesco said the program had made viewers aware of the initial allega­tions in May. lie said the program was analyzing the latest claims. and would likely report on them during the show on Dec. 13. 
Thti film showed a courier, or a drug "mule," pur­portedly carrying millions of dollars worth of heroin to London for Colombia's Cali drug cartel. 
The inquiry panel said thcro was no evidence the persr!n "".~s carrying heroin "rather than sugar, flour or mmts. 
A man interviewed with his face covered and described as the financial controller of the Cali Cartel was an actor -as were the "mule" and another key character, the panel said. 
One interview that was purported to take place in a jungle hideout with a drug baron actually took placn in the hotel room of producer Marc de Beaufort. the panel said. 
The panel concluded that only de Beaufort, a cam­eraman and a resr.archer could have known of most of the fakery. 
But the panel said it could not dctnrmine wlrntlrnr de Beaufort knew of all the false elemnnts in tlrn pro­gram. 
De Beaufort issued a statoment in which hn railed the conclusion about the actors "untenabln" and blamed his researcher, Adriana Quintana, for the "alleged fakery." 
''The inquiry is obviously entitled to its own conclu­sions. yet I !ind it hard to belinve Urn characters in the film were acting their parts," he said. 
Cruising the cultural 
catwalk ... 
Models strut their stuff during the annual Asian Allure fashion arid cultural show presented at Washington Hall on Saturday night. Both models and per­formers highlighted the intersection between traditional and modern style. 

The Observer/Kristin Corcoran 

The only thing better tl1an an iMac: An iMac for less than $29.99/mo/ 

.. t;J;411111,$2:~iog~~ ~:~i~~: ~~~~;:~~ 
Apple Computer couldn't make iMac any easier to set up or use. So they made it easier to buy. Now, if you're a student, you can get an iMac for less than $29,99 per month, with the first payment 
not due for 120 days. For about what you'd spend on a few pizzas, you can have a superfast computer that can get you onto the Internet in 10 min­t ... •.··. . . . utes right out of the box. You 
lflii!)'l!ll!!!!!/fsavings, for things like software, 
· games and accessones. 
Check out the Apple Student Loan Program Call 1-800-277-5356 The gifts keep coming because you also get acoupon book worth $2,000 in additional value for software, games and accessories and a $30 RAM upgrade credit. 
Detroit police officer killed in ambush 
Associated Press 

DETROIT 
A police officer died Sunday night, a day aftor he and anoth­er of'ficer were shot in an ambush on their police cars. Two men surrendered and a third reportedly was taken into custody. 
Officer Shawn Bandy, 23, died after he was taken off life support at the requost of his l'amily, a hospital spokes­woman said. The second wounded oflicer. Lloyd Todd, 
34. remained in critical condi­tion. A third oflicer was treated and released. 
The attack began latr. Saturday while the officers were investigating the kidnap­ping of a woman and her child, an abduction that appeared to be connected to drugs, police Chief 
Benny Napoleon said. Three men were in custody. One man surrendered to police 
Sunday afternoon alter hear­ing from relatives that he was wanted and a second man sur­rendered Sunday nighl. A third man was taken into custody Sunday night. WDIV-TV report­ed. The three were being held for questioning. 
Police did not expect to have warrants until Monday. 
Napoleon said police receivnd a call late Saturday that a young woman and her child had bMn kidnapped. 
A little lalnr. officers in an unmarked car saw a van matching the description of the vehicle used in the abdur.tion. /\ patrol car with uniformed officers helpnd th1~m try lo stop the van. 
During a chase. both policB vehicles were struck by shots fired through the van's rear window by what app1mrnd to be a "high-powiir, assault-typo weapon," Napoleon said. 
"The officer in Urn marknd car who was not injured described the gunfire as extremely heavy and as the rounds were striking the car, they were shaking the car," Napoleon said. 
The officer also "indicated the fire was heavy and it was constant," Napoleon said. "They were basically ambushed." 
Police later found the van abandoned nearby, but the weapon had not been found Sunday. 
The woman and the child were earlier held in the van, but they had been released before the shooting in exchange for a $5,000 cash ransom, Napoleon said. 
Encuentro Chicago: Afaith 
exploration ofjustice & hope through community immersion 
-(Z\MPU5

When? February 5-7, 1999 
MINISTRY 

Informational Meeting: Tuesday, December 8 7-7:30pm at CSC 
Applications: Now available at both the CSC & Library Campus Ministry Office 
Call nowfor Apple's special ND Student offerst 
OIT Solutions Center 

Rm 112 Computing/Math Bldg Think different. Phone: 219-631-7477 (1 for sales) \'.'WW.apple.com/education/store 
@/998 Apple Computer, Jnc All n'ghts reserved. Apple and the Apple logo are registered trademarks and iMac is a trademark ofApple Computer; Inc. Pou'l!rPC is a trademark of!Bl•f Corp. Purcba.lefrom aparticipating Apple·autlxmzed campus reseller orfrom tbe Apple Store for Education. 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 

VIEWPOINT 
page8----os~ERVER ------------------Monday, December 7, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME. OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EnlTOR-I~-CHIEF Hearher Cocks 
MANAGlr<G EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bri,m Rcinrh:1lcr Kyle Carlin 
A.~s,~TANT MANAGING EorroR 
Hc~rher .MacKenzie 

Nl-WS EDITOR ...........,, ... ~;chdlc Kcupa AnVERTISTNC ~NAGER...................Ilryan Lutz VIEWl'OINT EDITOR ..................Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Bren Huclar SPORTS EDITOR... •............. Kathleen Lopez SYSlEMS MANAGEK ..................... Michad Brouillet SCENE EDITORS.........................Sarnh Dyl.ag UJNTROLLF.R ....................................Dave Rogcro 
Kr,.,i Klitsch WEB ADMINISTl!ATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...... ,........................ l'ece Cilclla PHOTO EDITOR --·· .................. Kevin O:1lum 
The Ob~.:rvc-r is 1hl..' indcp~·ndc:nr nev.-·:o;p.ipc;r published by d1e ~tudems of the University ofNorrc ll1me dl.l Lac and Sainr Marv's College. h doci,: mn n«eaarily rc:Occi-the p<1lkic., of the administration of,:nher in.sd{ucion. The news is rcpm~ as .iccur.udy and objccuvdy .ss pos.'iiiblr. Unsigned ~itoriaJs reprcscnc rhe opmion of che m_ajoriry ofthe &!iror4 in~Chie'.:f, Man~irtg Editor, AssJSr.tn1 Manating FAl!tor and department editors. Commentanc.s, lcncrs and columns present the vil!'Y(s oF the o1urhors, and not ncces-~arily those oFThc Ob~rver. ViC'1i'lpoinc !ip~t'~1is-ava1foble to all 
m~mbcrs of the Noire l)amc/Simt Mary's community and to ;1H re.ldcr5o, Th.t. free expt~ssion c.)fvarymg opmiom 1hruug.h lctt!."tS i:i; encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Of/ice 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assisunt ME 631--4'.;4I Advertising <>31-6900/8840 News/PhQtO 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoinr E-Mail Viewpoiur. l@nd.edu Day l:.ditor/Vicwpo1nt _ 631-5303 Ad E-Mail ol>server@darw•n.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General lnlormarion 631-7471 News E-Mail ob.,erver.ob,ncws. l@nd.edu 

¦ DIGGING DEEPER 

Chicken Soup for the (Body and) Soul 
Any of us who have taken the required philosophy courses here have no doubt encountered the so-called "mind-body" problem. You remember, the question 
Aaron Kheriaty 

about whether the soul/self-conscious­ness/mind/whatever-you-want-to-call-it is one with the body, or part of the body, or the same thing as the body, or united to the body in some way, or disassociated from the body, floating somewhere above the brain, or attached to the body in the vicinity of the penile organ (as Descartes apparently thought). No doubt also, as you wrestled with this profound question in trying to write your five page paper on the topic, you began wondering what all the fuss was about anyway. What do questions of this sort have to do with any­thing of consequence in real life? 
A glance at modern culture shows that our conception of who we are -meta­physically speaking -makes a profound difference in many aspects of life: our per­sonal behavior, the art we produce and the leisure and entertainment we engage in. It does make a difference whether we are a body informed by a rational soul, as Aristotle thought, or Descartes, "ghost in the machine." In fact, if you take a look at pop culture, you will see that those who have not opted for a bleak, purely materi­alistic belief, probably come closer to Descartes and the Enlightenment view of a dual nature in man: one spiritual, the other corporal. In this conception, where the body is largely disconnected from the soul, the human body is often reduced to a mere instrument for the all-important mind-the subjective "self." 
The modern cultural critic and novelist Walker Percy characterizes our culture's instrumentalization of the body under what he dubs "angelism-bestialism," the dualistic behavior that results in our act­ing as though we are a mind one minute and a body the next. In his satirical self­help book entitled, "Lost in the Cosmos," Percy reports the case of the "divorced wife of an observer at the Mount Wilson Observatory, (w~o) accused her husband of (Eangelism-bestialism." He was so absorbed in his work, the search for th quasar with the great­
est red shift, that  
· when he came  
home to his pleas­ 
ant suburban  
house, he seemed  
to take his plea­ 
sure like a god  
descending from  
Olympus into the  ·.,~  
world o~mortals,  ~:.,  
at heartily, had  ,~  
frequent inter­. h h.course wit is  ':-..,_.·,,· ,, :-. .··. · '·,  .  x ts:' "-. ·  
wife, w~tched TV,  \ ~\~  \  
read Mickey  ·~ \:'-·  ~~  ·  

Spillane, and said no ~'-N~¾~. ~ a word to his wife and '~-'~~> "',,\\children. '\.~ · '· -' 
\i\i'hat Percy is satirizing ~~ . ­here is an intemperance, a •~,. . sort of spiritual lethargy that · results in the dis-unity of various aspects of human life. It is a failure to integrate the emotional, psychological, physical and spiritual into a unified vision of human existence, resulting in a failure to coordinate the various aspects of the human person toward any sort of overrid­ing good or ultimate end. 
Modern culture gives ample evidence that contemporary man, influenced by Enlightenment views of the human per­son, often come to view the human body from a dualistic perspective, whether they realize it or not. A museum has opened in 
Mannheim. Germany with an exhibition of 
¦ OOONESBUIW 

"THANK >Vll, fl<'Of'l39SOR, AN/?
/lt3t./t-ve Me, 7Ht; PteAS{J/?£5 /11/Ne. I /J,t/A/AYS66TA /</Cl< OVT CFtl/ORl<IN<3 IA/ITH 7Jle U?COMING t36NtiRATllWOr N8tVS P!ffefiONAtl77!35 ,., 
human corpses that is currently attracting large crowds. Dr. Gunther von Hagens has invented a method of preserving mus­cle structure in dead bodies, which he terms "plastination." People donate their bodies to the museum to be plastinated and put on display in various poses, pre­
, , \· , ~ ~\ ~ \ ~ ~\ , ' \ 
' 
1 
/ ~-~ 

sumably for the ake of "art." ong 
le 
\, ·-. 
.· 

exhibits is a woman with her womb gashed 
open to show a five-month-old fetus. 

The exhibit is the result of a radically dualistic notion that the body is not one­self but something that can be given away for any purpose one sees fit, including shock art. Commenting on the museum, Fr. Richard John Neuhaus says: 
The Mannheim exhibit ... makes a kind of perverse sense in a gnostic culture in which the self is divorced from matter, and the body is a "thing" to be used for pleasure, entertainment or, as Dr. von Hagens would have it, the education of the public. As he might say, a body is a terrible thing to waste. That assumes, of course, that the body is not inseparably part of a person with another destiny. 
As this exhibit demonstrates, when the truth about human nature is denied, the bizarre becomes normal, the unthinkable becomes not only thinkable, but some­thing exploited for financial gain. 
To escape the ambivalent dregs of dual­ism, modern man must acquire an under­standing and appreciation of "the human person in his unified totality, ... a soul which expresses itself in a body and a 
body informed by an immortal soul," as John Paul II says in the encyclical 
Veritatis Splendor. This substantial unity of body and soul reveals how the spiritual soul, a mysterious, incorpo­
real principle oflife, human beings to move, breath and feel, and to experi­ence thought, memory and love. The human soul is something beyond our biochemistry and firing neurons, an 
immaterial substance inextricably united to our material body. So if you too want to avoid the dregs \ of "angelism-bestialism," or if you 
would not be caught dead in Dr. von Hagens' museum (excuse the pun), remember that these strange and ethere­al metaphysical theories you encounter in Philo 101 are not simply the wild specula­tions from philosophers with nothing bet­ter to do, but are ways of looking at the human person that effect who we under­stand ourselves to be. The views of our own personal philosophy, whether we get it from studying philosophy, or imbibe it unconsciously from the surrounding cul­ture, will profoundly effect the way we choose to live individually and in society. 
Aaron Kherialy is a senior preprofes­sional studies and philosophy major. /Jis column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
OKAY,/UHY /?QV'Tt<le JU5"T t:ieT5TAl<TWWITH A flJl,IJ 
V<?Cal-/lt/Al?M-UPS?I /,/#WT Y()J70!?£AOlt.O~ GeT 
/N77J Tf{8 zi::we AN!?F&­
Pt'AT THe Pl-IRA%, "~­
MAIN!i 70 8e 5lzN'~I 
"\._ 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
Rl3MAIN5 UJIUSR ! 7088SliliN/ RNfJYOl.#<' R/3MA/N5 80T7lJM/ 
7D 118 SE!flfNl ~me 
/llJMBte /
I I\ 

"'l 
~ 
¦ UuoTE OF THE DAY 

'cocaine is God•s way of saying you•re making too much money.' · -Robin Williams 
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, December 7, 1998 
------------------------page9 
¦ CAPPY'S CORNER 
The Game of the Year 

Tomorrow flvening, at 7 p.m., the No. 6 ranked Fighting Irish women's basketball team hosts No. 1 Connccticul in what promises tn be one of the most exciting gamns evnr playnd at the Joyce Center. Connecticut brings a veteran team with a big star in Shea Halph. and the country's best recruiting haul. 
===============~ They com­
bine size,
Cappy  speed, rebound­ing, shoot­ 
Gagnon  ing and defense to earn their undisputed  

 No. 1 rank­ 
ing.  

Notrn IJamo will not come into the gamo unarmed, how,wer. Mufl'ct McGraw, Notre Dame's coaching dynamo. has quintly put tognthcr a deep and bal­anced sc11md. Tlw undefeated Irish feature a dominat­ing pws,mcr. on the boards in 6-foot­:, Huth Hi!oy ("You Can't Stop Lim Buth") and a d1md-1iyn, three-point nice outside shot. Julie Henderson (6-foot-3) fills both low post spots and brings a sound overall game. Like Riley, .Julie spent last Summer playing for a National Team. Sophomores Meaghan Leahy (6-foot-4) and lmani Dunbar add rebounds and spark, respectively, when they get their minutes in Coach McGraw's liber­al substitution pattern. 
I have saved the best for last. The piece de resis­tance of the Irish is their backcourt tandepl, one of the most exciting in the country. Danielle Green (aka: my favorite player) and future All-American, Niele Ivey, have outstanding two-way games. Both can pick the pockets of opposing guards. Both can slash to the hoop. Nicle is right behind McMillan with her three­point shot; Danielle leaps like a kangaroo and may be the top rebounding guard in the country. 'Green and Hiley have had several double-doubles this year. 
During Notre Dame's six game run, McGraw's jug­gernaut has soundly beaten two Top-10 teams (UCLA and Duke) and crossed the century mark to beat a 20th-ranked lllinois team which may be even stronger 
than both. The Irish have also taken 
the measure of good teams from 
Buller, San Francisco, and Toledo. 
shnotl'r in Slwila l\'lcMillan ("Slrn­ 'THERE IS ONLY ONE  Their strong schedule has prepared  
Mark" l. Tlws,i two native llousiers  INGREDIENT LACKING  them well entering the first Big East  
form an l'Xndlf'nl Miss lnsidn and Miss Outsidn rnmbination.  FOR A BIG UPSET VICTORY  match-up of the season. If the Irish are able to pull off the  
Ural<•r roaching from Carol Owens.  TOMORROW NIGHT. THE:  upset and stop the Huskies, they will  
BilPy has madP rPmarkabln stridPs in lwr sPconcl yl'ar. Whnn tnams l'ront  MISSING INGREDIENT IS STU­ deserve tho No. 1 ranking. Most of the other teams ahead of Notre  
ltoooooLh. ltw Irish guards lob lhe  DENTS. LOUD ONES.'  Dame have already hung a "w."  

hall in to lwr; wlwn tPams play lwhiud twr. thPr1\ am r,,w dofondms who ntll kf'pp lwr from g!'lting off lrnr shot. Wtiaring lwr trademark swnatband, Huth is also a big shot blockPr, with 20 in tlrn past thrnn ganws. 
McMillan donsn'l change oxpression much as she floats around llw thrne-point line. Wlrnn the Irish am pounding tlw ball into tlw paint. teams sometimes clrnp off tlwir guards lo help out 011 dol'ense. Big mis­lakn. Slwila takes tlwm out of that stralngy, by I.iring in hPr trndmnark bombs. 
Knlly Sitimon plays Uw power forward posiliou. She nms llrn floor well, is a tough dnfender, pulls down tough rPhonnds and gets a lot of garbagli baskets. lier fathnr. h•ff, was a star linebacker l'or the Minrwsota Vikings. K1dly has thn heart of a lincback1•r. 
In last ynar's double-overtime win over UCLA. at stori,id Pauley l'avilion. both McMillan and Siemon show1id what llwy wern made of'. Sheila attomptod live thn:P-point shols; Kelly was cm the line for 12 fr1ip throws, Thn Irish nnndnd ovMy singlH point to p!'!'SPrVI' two ovNlimns and win tho gumc. Noithcr play1!r 11inclwd tuHler thn prPssurn. 
If that's all tlw Irish had. l.h,iy would be fun to watch, liut ttwrn's much more. 
Two 1ixciting l'rosh, Slwrisha Mills and Ericka llani>y, 1·onrn off the benl'h Lo add tnrril1c speed and jumpi11g ability. Shcrblrn has a good shooting Louch and is c·.01111'1irtabln driving to the hoop. Ericka is a gaz,dk who is going to ho a f'orce on the boards. 
Tlw l.ady Irish also havn some strnng bench play­nrs. Diana Bnwmlly (6-foot-4) spells Hiley and adds a Thero is only one ingredient lack­
ing for a big upset win tomorrow 
night. This missing ingredient is STUDENTS. Loud ones. While seemingly in plentiful supply on the campus, students have not bl-len found at the Joyce Center in suflicient numbers to give the Irish the typo of home court advantage they deserve. The University of Connecticut. for crying out loud, attracts 10,000 fans to their women's games. Loud ones. While I grant that ther'e is not much to do in Storrs, Connecticut, compared to the night life here in Hiver City. I r.ha.llenge all Notre Dame students tu get behind the Lady Irish. Hecent government studies (I'm making this up, but it could aetually be true) have shown that yelling and screaming just before exams is an excellent means ol' ridding the mind of unneeded information. so only correct examination answers remain. 
Women's basketball is the best entertainment value on ca~1pus. Come on out to see the "Game of the Year. 
Cappy Gagnon, ND '66. is the Coordinator of Stadium Per.~onrwl and supervises student employees ofrhe Notre name Security Police JJepartment. lie remembers when "girls" basketball was played by six on a team, with orzly three players in each halfcourt. Ile prefer.,; to watch Danieft'e. Niele and Kelly sprint end tu end. llis column appear every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Rice's Concerns and Observations Regarding Non­Discrimination Clause Do Not 
'J'N! 
Hold Up 

Professor Charles Hice should be thanked ror dotng something-which the ND adminis­tration has not done: offering CONCRETE EXAMPl,ES professing to show how the pro­posed non-discrimination clause on homosex­ual orientation would put this Catholic 
.University in an impossible legal bind (The Observer, Dec. 4). Do the examples hold up? I have three observations. 
1. At this point, I fail to see how the exam­ples he cites (appointing Hesident Assistants/Assistant Rectors and commitment ceremonies) would necessarily lead, or would likely lead to an irreconcilable conflict between what the University is required to do under civil law. and what it wislrns to and/or must do on moral/religious grounds. 
Since ND's "no sex" rule flatly applies to ALL s"tudents, both heterosexual and homo­sexual, it is not clear how a sexually active gay or lesbian RA or Assistant Hector could successfully allege discrimination bastid on his or herhomosexual activity. As for an 
. UNSUCCESSFUL allegation, that is the price we pay for living in a democracy. Furthermore, ND could, in its non-discrimina­tion clause., reserve the right to discriminate against homosexual behavior, if it so chose. 
As far as the commitment ceremony exam­ple is concerned, I believe a court would be loathe to let the issue go to a jury, for fear of treading on the First Amendment religious freedom rights of a worshipping community. I note that Professor Hice offers no legal sup­port for his fears represented In these two examples. 

2. 
Although Professor Rice begins his argu­ment by tLsserting that the non-discrimination clause would, in practice, very likely erode the distinction between homosexual orienta­tion and behavior, the distinction adopted by the teaching office of the Catholic Church, ho ends up effectively OBLITERATING it HIM­SELF. How? His repeated emphasis on the homosexual person's ~inclination" t.o be sexu­ally activo in an immoral way, to tho nxclu­sion of any consideration of the heterosexual person's desire to be sexually activo, suggests that the homosexual HA has a greater propensity to have sex and lead others into sex than does the heterosexual HA. Thus, since orfontation leads to behavior, ND "has a right and an obligation to take it into account," a euphemism for discriminating based on sexual orientation, tlw very thing ND sometimes suggests it basically docs not want to do. At any rate, it is my understand­ing that when students apply for th(~ positions of RA and Assistant R,~ctor. the issues of one's sexual orientation and sexual history never come up. 

3. 
In this article and elsewhtiro, Profossor Hice takes Father Malloy and tlrn Administration to task for not saying that a homosexual orientation Is ,m ''obj(ictiV() disor­der,'' an expression used in the Catechism. "(T)he University refuses to acknowledge that the inclination toward those (homosexual acts) is itself disordered ... (l)f, as tlw Administration maintains, the inclination is notdisordered, why may ii not be acled upon?" To tho b,)st of my knowledgo. tho Administration has never "maintained" this at all; it has simply, and legitimately, chosen not to speak in these terms, tMms which In my view arc pastorally hurtful and conceptually ambiguous. 


James Ball 
Graduate Student Dt•panmcnt ofThcvlugy 


page 10 

'Psycho' flatters itself after 38 years 

Craziness makes 'bad things' very good 
"Psycho" 

Director: Gus V.m Sant 
Starring: Vince Vaughn, Anne Heche, Viggo Mortensen, Julianne Moore, tVilliam H Macy, Robert Forster and Rita Wilson 


(Out offive shamrocks) 
By CHRISTIAN PIERCE 
Scene Movie Critic 
With a respected piece of art like the Mona Lisa, is it worth it to do a remake? Such a piece seems ·almost perfect, so improving on it would be almost impossible. Director Gus Van Sant has tackled just such a project in his new film "Psycho," a remake of the 1960 Alfred Hitchcock original. 
Remakes are always an area of criti· cal debate as each artist places their own spin on the project. Typically, these artists attempt to update the piece for their audience which inevitably changes the meaning of the original work forever. Van Sant, how­ever, knowing the cultural status of "Psycho," attempted to stay true to the original. Oddly enough he opted to do a shot-by-shot remake of the mm, only changing the time in which the film is set. 
Going into the film there was doubt that such a project would work as the original "Psycho" is such an incredible piece. The prognosis was that Van Sant would fall flat on his face, but the way he designed his remake allowed the project to succeed. 
which forever change her Hfo. Crane is in an intimate relationship with Sam Loomis, (Viggo Mortensen) but due to his financial debts the couple can not marry. While at work one afternoon. a gPntleman brings in $400,000 in cash to purchase a house. Marion is asked to deposit this money. but she realizes this hefty chunk of change could be her key to happiness. Marion steals the money intending to pay off Sam's debts, allow­ing the couple to then marry. 
Now Hitchcock and Van Sant spend an incredible amount of screen time setting up this scenario, but honestly the money and Marion are completely 

flitchcock was famous for the complexity of his plots, as the audience thoughi they were fol­lowing one story when in actuality the film was about another. Now, this may not seem clear, but using "Psycho" as an example, lhis route of storytelling which !Iiichcock mastered can be explained. 
The film begins by fol­lowing Marion Crane (played by Anne Heche in the '98 version) and the choices she makes 
the story of "Psycho." This should not be huge sur­prise. as the title of the film 
"Psycho," 
with  no  
mention  
money  or  
love.  

This style of story­t c 11 in g ­
constructing Photo courtesy of Uf1iversal utilizing odd a situation colors like
Vince Vaughn (above) stars in the new "Psycho." 
avocado. Clearly, Van Sant wanted to make ref­erence to that era, but really, it was not necessary to dress Viggo Mortensen in tacky Roy Rogers apparel. 
The only other main difference is lhe choice of actors. Anthony Perkins chill­ingly played Norman Bates in the origi­nal; he was an actor of' much higher caliber than Vaughn. Perkins construct­ed Norman as a terrifying t"1gure, but did so by using few words. Ho had a knack for using facial expression to convey the twisted thoughts running through Norman's head. Van Sant could never find an actor to replace such talent as Perkins. Other than these differences, Van Sant remains loyal to Hitchcock's masterpiece. 
This loyalty to the original is clearly what makes this new version work. Van Sant uses the same incredible shots that Hitchcock used, with a few techno­logical advances that were not avail­able in 1960. Seeing both versions is a worthwhile enduavor, as each has so much to offer. This is a quality slaslrnr film that worked well in 1%0 and still works just as well in 1998. 
chocolate syrup, not the vibrant red that Van Sant uses. Color also plays an interesting role in cos­tuming, which gives the film a campy feel. The cos­tumes an-i all in fifties retro style, 
never had his bachelor
"Very Bad Things" 
party. Well, that's just a little something. They can do that, right? That's n:o 
Director: Peter Berg 
big deal. Starring: Cameron Diaz, Jon Favreau, Christian 
Enter Kyle's friends: Robert Boyd, (Christian
Slater, Jeremy Piven and Daniel Stenz 
·,, ' ·) 
Jf!J Jry· 


(Out of five shamrocks) 
By JOE LARSON 
Scene Movie Critic 
"Very Bad Things" is a film about a wedding, as well as other things ­things that are bad -some would eveu say very bad. It all begins with Kyle Fisher (Jon Favreau, "Swingers" and the campus hit "Rudy"). All Kyle wants to do is get married to his lovely and beautiful bride, Laura (Cameron Diaz). They aro going through all the pre-wedding preparations with Laura a little stressed out about everything. She really needs Kyle's help in getting (good) things like cushions for the seats in the chapel and the seating arrangemenL-; at the groom's dinner. Kyle is hrlping all he can. He has mailed all the checks and he is just that much closer to marrying and living hap­pily forever aftn. 
Now, things sound in control, and they both have taken cam of everything for the wedding. Kyle and Laura now only have to wait it out to begin the rest of their lives together. First, there's the rehearsal and the fitting of everyone's dresses and tuxedos. Then, there's the groom's dinner. Then, oh wait -Kyle Slater) Adam, (Daniel Stern) Adam's brother Mike (Jeremy Piven) and Charles Moore (Leland Orser). Boyd, the best man, decides to take Kyle to Vegas for a small, inti­mate bachelor party. They do a little gambling (take into consideration these men are of legal . 
age to gamble) and drink some' 
Mountain Dews. Then, they go back to 
their hotel room to watch Ultimate 

Fighting Championships. I know, you're worried about these guys. I closed my eyes for parts because I was so perturbed by the behavior of these men. 
You can imagine that with these guys' party, something would go wrong. So thnre was a little mishap, but thev take care of it and it's over. Or is it? This small accident changes the lives of all the men at the bache­lor party. It was like they killed a hooker or couldn't complete a pass against USC (sorry). 
Anyway, the guys get back to town and start getting ready for the wed­ding. Only, everything blows up in their face. While they were having all that fun, Kyle forgot to call the people with the cushions for the chairs. Their gooses are cooked. 
Laura hears about this and is very unhappy. Now, guests will have to sit on those hard, wooden chairs with no protection. This is what happens when people lose control of what's important in lifo and do crazy things like running with scissors or burying dead people in the desert. 
After the loss of scat cushions, things go pretty much as plannod. There are a few small problems, but every wedding has them. It was nothing out of the ordinary. So Kyle and Laura are mar­rit'd and they live happily ever after. 
"Very Bad Things" is a hilarious and scary moviP. The movie keeps you interested until the last scene -you really never know what is going to hap­pen next. Credit must be given to Poter Be,rg for writing such an original screenplay. His dialogue is impressive and he injects humor at the perfect times. His characters arc fascinating and full of surprises. Christian Slater is 
great aud Jun Favreau does another 

good job portraying the "nice" guy. Jemmy Piven is always funny and you havo Cameron Diaz as the neurotic bride trying to plan a wedding. 
There are also lessons to be lnarnnd from lhis film. Two wrongs don't. make right The "Slippery Slope" theory does occur in real lil1:1. For example, you drink one or two Mountain Dews and you'll find yvurself drinking more and morn Mountain Dews until all hell breaks loose. The most important lesson learned is to order snat r:ushions for the guests at your wedding. Do you want grandma to have to suffer through the ceremony in discomfort at her precious age? 01' course not. So maybe you should watch this movie just to learn what these "bad " things are so you can spot them and avoid them in thP future. 
that sets the stage but in no way influences the over­all story ~ was frequently used by Hitchcock. In actuality this film is about the character of Norman Bates, today played by Vince Vaughn. 
As Marion drives from Arizona Lo California to bu with Sam, torrential rain forces her to slop at a motel for the night. Marion stops at the Bates Motel, a creepy motel which is suffering due to its location on a rarely used highway. Here Marion meets the lonely motel owner and manager, Norman Bates. Norman lives alone with his mother and seems excited to have a guest, especially a single woman. From here the story transforms into a sus­penseful tale of murder and insanity which will leave any audiencu member disturbed. 
Having compared the two versions it is necessary to point out those elements which contrast. The most dramatic dif­ference between the two versions is that Van Sant opted to film his version in color. In black and white the film did not seem quite so gory, as the blood in the famous shower scene was actually 
s€~ne 
O 
THE
Monday, December 7, 1998------------------BSERVER 

¦ VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK ¦ CHART-TOPPERS 
Movie Title 

By CASEY McCLUSKEY have nine weeks lo get to know each Scene Movi,· Critic other before Diane goes to England to 
1. A Bug's Life 

study with a fellowship she was 
"To know Lloyd Dobler is to love awarded. Lloyd vows to spent as 2. Psycho him. Diane Court is about to get to much time with Diane as he can lo 3. Enemy of the State know Lloyd Dol.Jler." make her last nine weeks as memo­
4. The Rugrats Movie

This is the tag line for one 111' the rable as possible. greatest teen love movies ever made, They spend their time together, 5. The Waterboy "Say Anything." In it, John Cusack teaching each other aboul life and 
6. Meet Joe Black

plays Lloyd Dobler. a high school about each other. snnior who docs not knnw what he Lloyd shows Diane the importance 6. Babe: Pig in the City wants to do in tho ruturo. /\nd he dons of' having fun. of not settling for what 
8. Home Fries 

know what Im does not want to do. is expected of you and of trusting Initially. Lloyd believes his ticket to your heart to love. 8. Elizabeth tho rut.urn is kiekboxing, the sport or Diane toaches Lloyd the joy or 
10. I Still Know What You 
tho ruture. learning from the elderly, the impor­
Did Last Summer

/\sidu from all of this not knowing, tance of looking toward the future the 1nw thing that I.lo yd is ahsolu tely and that love can be pretty complicat­surn or is !.hat he wants a date with nd. Source: Associated Press Dianli Court. playnd by l1inl' Skye. Together, Diane and Lloyd learn 
lliano, the school's val(idictorian, what it is like to fall in lovo. They has clone i,;o mucli studying in her both learn the joy and happiness hii,;h school yours that she has forgot­involved, but also feel the confusion Lon to hav,i any fun at all. l.loycl vows and heartache that comes with loving to rhangii all or th is if" another person com­l>iann will just givn pletely. him a chanrn. ;\rting Dinicted by as adv,irsarins. all of Camnron Crowe. Lloyd's !"ri,rnds try lo ("Singles," "Jerry d iscouragn hi rn from Maguire" and "Fast Video Title pursuing his dn~am Timos at Hidgemont of' Diann. Thny tdl lligh") "Say 1.loyd that Dia rw is Anything" is a funny. 1 . Armageddon out of' his lnagun. but but honest, look at 2. Deep Impact Lloyd r1'l't1st:s to lis-falling in love for the 

3. Godzilla

1<'11. first time. fin only wants on!' Cusack is brilliant 4. Small Soldiers rhanrn with lliarw. in his role as Lloyd 
5. A Perfect Murder

And I .loyd knows that Dobler. who has if I >iarw will just givn become a model for 6. Hope Float5 him that orrn chanc1i, John Cusack (right) and lone th,i guy that many 
7. The X-Files 

hn can show hnr that Skye star in "Say Anything." girls arc snarching slw is not out ol' his for in life. Skye is 8. The Horse Whisperer lnagtw and that tlwy lwlong together. convincing in her role as thn brainy 9. City of Angelslliarw nvnn tu ally gives 1.loycl his Diane, who has never truly expcri­
10. Mercury Rising
d1111H'.ll and ho sots out to capture lwr crncnd life as a kid. Together. Cusack !wart. In 01w night, Lloyd is able to and Skye clectril"y the screen with show Diann his pure and innocent thnir chemistry, and draw the audi­
Source: Billboard Online

drnrm and rnake lrnr fall for him. ence in to renrnmber what. it is like to llowevnr, tlrny roaliz,i thny only fall in love for the first time. 
December I I, 1998 You've Got Mail Mighty .loe Young 
¦ THE END IS NEAR 
Star Trek: Insurrection Why you should see it: A Why you should see it: If you 
Why you should see it: The reteaming ofTom Hanks and are a kid, the big gorilla should Scene presents a strong Slltr Trek rranchise has Meg Ryan in this romantic com­b(• a cool sight. movie guide for proven not to disappoint in tho edy could workagain. Why you shouldn't: Ifyou 
past. Why you shouldn 't: Or it are not a kid, gorillas woi1't do
Christmas Break 
Why you shouldn't: That might not work, again. the trick. By MIKE VANEGAS samo franchise could be getting a little too old. Not everyone is 
Patch Adams 
~isrnm Scene Editor a trnkkiP. Why you should see it: This looks like a heartwarming com­
"Titanic" is ylistnrday's nnws. 
Jack Frost edy/drapia that should make''t'\rniawiddon'!" Who cares 
Why you should see it; It you laugh and cry. ll takesnhout videos'? It's Christ.miis. 
looks lo he a ploas,tnt tale place in a hospital. 
and llollywood knows what 
about family and love. The spe­Why you shouldn't: Hobin
that means -kids are not at 
cial elfoets tonk attractive. as WiUiams overload, anyone'?
school! Kids can go to tlw 
Michanl Keaton becomes a After his Oscar win tbr "Goodrnovins nveryday ir thny want. 
snowman. Will Hunting'' and his D,Ulte•
Kids can spend their money, Moroovnr, collegii .,,udents all Why !/OU shouldn't: Seems csque "What Dreams May 
very similar to Tim Al.Ion's "The Come," America has seen ovor /\merint will be on tlrnlr 
wi11t11r vacation. wondr•·;ng Santa Clause.'' or course. kids enough of the comndian in won't cm·e about that. 1998.
what to do with their non­
Photo Courtew of Warner Brothers
sl'.Jwlastic tinw. Sure, thev can 
Meg Ryan in "You've Got Mail." 
go to parties, dl'ink lots o{ December l 8, 1998 Stepmom 
TJm Prince of Egypt December 2.'i, 1.998 Why you should see it: This
happy juice and be with 
friends. Uut they can also go J,Vhy !JOU should see U: This The Faculty looks to be a strong film with ,~pk about Moses lookc; power­Why you should see it: A two great actresses, Susan
check out a now movio. And th,,m is plnnly to choose ful, with great spodal cllilct.s. unique film among the typical Samndon and Julia Robort.'i. 
We all knnw the story from our family oriented and Oscar-dri• Why you shouldn't: The story 
from until WP get back to school 
Intro Theology dass. ven dramas. "Scream" worked of the ex getting along with theon January 11. 19'J9. llnru's a 
previnw ol' wh11t you should Why you shouldn't; This a few years back. young new wifo is very soapy. looks like a must-see. If you Why you shouldn't: Alfons on Maybe this should be a Sunday 
look out for this month: don't like cartoons. stay away. Christmas? ~ Night Movie on CBS, 


After its $46 million take over Thanksgiving, 'A Bug's Life' continues to dominate the box office in its third week, outdueling Gus Van Sant's remake of 'Psycho.' 
Gross Sales 
$ 17.4 million 
$ 10. 5 million 
$ 9.5 million 
$ 8.0 million 
$ 6.6 million 
$ 2.4 million 
$ 2.4 million 
$ 2.0 million 
$ 2.0 million 
$ 1.8 million 

... 


... 
Do you like analyzing and scrutinizing Hollywood's best and worst offerings? 
Become a Scene Movie Critic! 
Give us a call at 1­4540 or 4-3271 if you want to write movie reviews for Scene next semester. 

• 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 7, 1998 
¦ HOCKEY 

Sloppy Iri~h leers fall to Ohio State twice c)ver 1~veekend 
By TED BASSANI 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team dropped both its week­end games to Ohio State, fin­ishing off what had been an impressive first half of the season on a disappointing note. 
Friday night in Columbus, the Buckeves used two five­on-three goals at the end of the second period to notch a 4-3 win over the Irish. Saturday night was probably Notre Dame's worst showing of the season; the team allowed its first two short­handed goals of the year en route to a 4-1 drubbing. 
Friday night, the Irish con­trolled the offensive tempo in the first period. They regis­tered at least four shots on the game's first shift and scored a goal at the 4:07 mark. Ben Simon managed to find the rebound of Brian Urick's shot and shoot the puck over Ohio State goalie Jeff Maund's left shoulder to put Notre Dame up by one. 
With the game tied at 1-1 early in the second period. Aniket Dhadphale took a pass from Brian Urick as he gained the blue line with speed. He then took a quick wrist shot, which again bounced out in front, and Simon again cleaned up for his second goal of the game and ninth on the season. Simon's nine goals this season already matches his total from last year. 
But the story of the first period was the Ohio State goaltender. Notre Dame pep­pered Maund with 14 shots on goal in the first period, but the goalie was brilliant and gave his team a chance to get back into the game, which it did. 
After Ohio State tied the 

game at 2-2 midway through the second period, what was once a great hockey game turned into a mess. 
Referee Matt Shegos, the 
'THE PENALTIES WERE 
UNCHARACTERISTIC OF US AS A TEAM. WE LET EMO­TION GET THE BETTER OF 
us.' 
DAVE POULIN 
HEAD COACH 
much-maligned official at the center of several controversies surrounding Notre Dame last season, decided to award the Buckeyes two cons(,lcutive fivc­on-three power plays near the end of the second period. 
The ensuing power plays resulted in two quick goals for Ohio State, as Vinny Grant and Jean-Francois Dufour took advantage of rebounds left from point shots. This left Notre Dame trailing by two entering the third period. 
Early in the third period, the Irish took advantage of an early power play opportunity to narrow the gap to 4-3. Sophomore Dan Carlson fed a brilliant pass to Urick in the slot, which Urick promptly fired past Maund for his team­leading tenth goal of the year. But the team couldn't tie up the game. 
The final game in the horri­bly inadequate Ohio State Ice Arena was a strange game from start to finish. Once again, discipline failed the Irish, as they were assessed a total of 38 penalty minutes ­but many of the penalties were questionable. 
"The officiating was proba­bly the worst I've seen since I've been here, but that's still no excuse," said junior right wing Joe Dusbabek. "You have to fight through stuff like that." 
The Irish allowed Ohio State two power play goals in the first period to put themselves in an early hole. Both goals were scored on rebounds, as two terrific saves by Forrest Karr were wasted by Buckeyes banging home goals from just outside the crease. 
The choppy play on both sides escalated in the second period, and the Irish looked worse for wear. After sopho­more Ryan Clark took out Ohio State star forward Eric Meloche with a clean body check into the boards, the Buckeyes decided to strike back. 
"We had Simon getting hurt. Tyson [Fraser] got hurt, [Ryan] Clark was hurt, and they're hacking up Urick. They were gunning our big guys; just chopping us down...The referees lost control of the game, freshman Sam Cornelius said. 
Then, what may have turned out to be the decisive moment of the game for the Irish occurred at the 17:37 mark of the second period. With Notre Dame killing yet another penalty, Brian Urick capital­ized on a misplayed puck and headed down the ice on a breakaway. He was hooked down from behind, and was awarded a penalty shot. 
On the penalty shot, Urick deeked Jeff Maund to his fore­hand and got off a good shot, but Maund was able to move over quickly to make a sparkling save. 
All in all, the Irish were 
lucky only to be down two 
goals at the end of two pPri­ods, and they entered the third period with a power play for the first 1:39. Then came the collapse. Ohio State con­verted two misplayed pucks at the blue line into successive two-on-one breaks into the Notre Dame end. 
The first one saw Forrest Karr stand his ground by rob­b in g Neal Rech, but the Buckeyes converted the sec­ond opportunity. The short­handed goal was the first given up by the Irish all sea­son. 
Then, some 2:27 later, on another Irish power play, Brandon Lafrance streaked in on a clean breakaway from his own blue line and put the puck past Karr for a second 
'SOME OF THE SAVES HE [KIMENTO] MADE 
WERE RIDICULOUS. THEY 
HAD A ONE-TIMER IN THE 
SLOT AND HE GOT A GLOVE 
ON IT. ALL YOU COULD SAY IS 'Wow.' 
JOE DUSBABEK 

JUNIOR, RIGHT WING 
shorthanded goal. Despite playing well in net, as he has done all season, Karr was pulled from the game after the second shorthander gave the Buckeyes a 4-0 lead. 
"Two two-on-ones within a minute of each other [on the power play] is just unaccept­able. We played sloppy and I don't think we deserved to win that game." Dusbabek said of the early moments of the third period. 
Saturday's game was cer­tainly the worst 60 minutes 
the team has played all year. A combination of bad penal­ties, sloppy passing, a failure to charge the OSU net, a fail­ure to clear rebounds on the penalty kill, and a slew of mental mistakes (including a too many men on the ice penalty) added up to a terrible performance in one of' the biggest games of the year so far. 
"The penalties were unchar­acteristic of us as a team. We let emotion get the better of us," Coach Dave Poulin said. ''Emotion has to be a part of your game, but you have to keep it under control." 
Following Friday's loss, the game not only was important in the CCHA standings, but for postseason implications as well. 
"We had a challenge in front of us, and I don't think we answered the bell," said Dusbabek. "It was such a big series. We were one win away from a season series victory." 
A season series victory would give Notre Dame the edge in a tie breaker over the Buckeyes, who took the season series two games to one. 
Perhaps the only bright spot for the Irish on Saturday night was the play of their backup goaltender, freshman Jeremiah Kimento. He stopped 14 shots in the 17 minutes he played without allowing a goal. Ohio State had four power plays while Kimento was in goal, including a five­on-three advantage for the last minute of the game. 
"Some of the saves he made were ridiculous. They had a one-timer in the slot and he got a glove on it. All you could s-ay is, 'wow,"' Dusbabek said. 
Kimento's heroics allowed the Irish to avoid complete embarrassment in Columbus as the game ended 4-1. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­ CA, fenced yard, nice area, is  fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica  I will use my vocal cords and I will  THere now I feel better.  
NOTICES  WEST,PANAMA CITY.REPS NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE.EARN  available JAN '99, rent $600.m W/D. Call 219-923-7246.  Packages for the Class of '99!Stop in at Anthony Travel in the  not use my vocal cords.  JW-anytime you need to talk!  
CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  Lafortune Student Center and  you're killing independent Alicia.  
Early Spring Break  6+.  check ou1 the best Spring Break  MW -thanks for being a cool  
SpecialslBahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279'1ncludes most meals!  WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 800-838-8203.  FOR SALE  vacations around.Get your deposit in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  Danimal -you da' man, smokin' , yeah, baby!  roomie! You party like a rock star.  
Awesome  chance with an unknown agency or  Katie, Sarah, Stephanie -Great  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  same 1-800 number.Limited space  No, we are not stealing from the  SYR!  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­ 198 MIN. $20  available,so book now!  Goodwill Store.  
Air.Hotel.Meals &Parties  Workers earn up to $2000+/month  CALL 25B-4805  Anthony Travel.Inc.  GM-Lunch soon, OK?  
-..  $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties  (w/tips & bene!its).World Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­ FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  Lafortune Student Center 631-7080  The Goodwill store steals from us!  Sorry, you're not here to see that it's only 1 :30 and i'm doing classi­ 
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517­ Bed box set. not available in  Is this really a fire drill? Is this for  fieds. yeah, baby.  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  336-4235  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  real?  
1-800-678-6386  Ext.C55841  Looking for a unique gift?  Aloha, KJ • You're killing me.  
Beautiful brass bed.queen size.with  "You bet it is! Come on, we gotta  See you at 4: 15 and after glee club.  
#1 Spnng Break Specials!Book  SEEKING CHILD CARE IN MY  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  go."• mw  
Early & Receive a Free Meal  HOME for 2 well-behaved chil­ frame.New.never used.still in plas­ and we'll create a custom color cal­ GET out of my annex, wicked  
Plan!!!Cancun & Jamaica  dren. 1-3 Days A Week,  tic.$225  endar.  Thanks for all of the Christmas  ghosts.  
$399,Bahamas $459,Panama City  7:30-5:30.lf Interested, Call 631­ 219-862-2082  refreshments in Carroll on Friday in  
$99.  7051.  THE COPY SHOP  Room 205_.  MERRY CHRISTMAS, READERS!  
1-800-234-7707  Smith Corona  Lafortune Student Ce.-ter  LOVE, YOUR LOYAL FRIEND,  
endlesssumme rtours.com  Sitter for CUTE young boys for next  Word Processor  Missy makes one mean cheese dip!  THE OBSERVER.  
sem. 9-10 hrs/wk. Must be avail  Like New  Thanks you rule.  
ILOST & FOUND I  Mon. afts. other hrs flex. Need car. 237-1981  $100OBO x1554  Join the ND Ski Club ?s call 277-6780  Big thanks and big love to MT.  Chuk-you're going down. Watch out, Ireland. The ladies'  
Crazy Russian cab driver versus  man is coming.  
For Sale:  the cops.  
LOST. A SMC '98 class ring, engraved Megan E. Driscoll.  FOR RENT  Digitech RP-20 Floor Effects Processor/Preamp  THE OBSERVER'S last issue is Wednesday, Dec. 9. Get your  Hey security , there's a strange  Hi MISSY.  
REWARD! Please call 273-9155.  Only 1 year old, ex. condition.  Holiday classifieds in before 2:30  man walking around campus at  sorry, missy, he's not creative  
Thank youi  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  List: $799.99. asking $450.00 or  Tuesday.  5:30 in the morning What? You'll  enough for a real classified.  
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  b/o. Call 287-9910, ask for  TRY to get on that? ·  
TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  Brendan  Tiny pancakes at Colonial House.  
Lost 11/22; Silver bracelet. senti­ Julie and Jamie ­ It's FANTASTIC.  
mental value. dan 4-0951  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­ IDEAL CAR for college.Maroon 4-dr  We're open extended hours during  REMEMBER: PAY BACKS ARE  
rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  Olds Calais.Automatic. $4100 OBO  the finals study weekend.  GOING TO BE BIG! SO BIG,  KIND of like eighth grade Saint  
WANTED  1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES NEAR  call 232-5398  Fri. 12/11 7'.30am-Midnight Sat. 12/12 10am-Midnight  THEY'LL HURT!  lgnatiias girls basketball  
CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­ Sun. 12/13 10am-Midnight  Sorry for the screaming in 4th  I promise, i'm not stalking you.  
SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun·Nassau•Jamaica'Mazatlan  TIES.272-6551  PERSONAL  THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  Annex last night\ Fire drills are so scary ... and so are people Jumping  Peppy boy. Alicia loves you.  
•Acapulco'Bahamas  House for rent, 105 Marquette,  R1 mom and dad. I'm earning home  out of your closet.  
Cruise'Florida'Soulh Padre  5 bedrooms, available now and tor  FAX IT FAST!I!  soon! Hope the lime tree ­er,  Hook the sista' up!  
Travel Free and make lots of  next fall. 232·6964  Sending & Receiving  ORANGE tree ­is still full of  ALI·  
Cash!Top reps are offered full-time  at  bizarre hybrid fruit  The Le Mans home girl,  ,  4.21 40  
staff jobs.Lowest price  Room for Rent in Turtle Creek  THE COPY SHOP  Nicole -Sorry about your ankle.  Sometimes you can be so JERSEY!  
Guaranteed.Call now tor details!  apartments.Call 273-2435.  Lafortune Student Cente,  Can you forgive me, -S.  NO, REALLY you are anytthing  Who is lhe man, who'd risk his neck  
www.classtravel.com  Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1  BUT Jersey. You OHIO, baby.  for his brother-man. SHAFT, CAN  
BOO/B38-6411  Roommates Needed  FAX IT FASTII!  Missy and Julia -Sorry in general.  YOU DIG fT?  
ND Apts Gall X4415  Can we still be friends? -S.  OK, I ac!mit it. I'm not from Toronto.  
'ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST  "Don't Get Burned an Spring  Sorry for all the lies. It's time to  THANK YOU EVERYBODY IN 132  
SPRING BREAK PRICES TO  House for rent, near ND /SMC,  Break"  WE WILL MISS BILL U. SO MUCH  come clean ... I'm from Halifax.  AND 248 DILLON WE ARE BOYS  
SOUTH PADRE (FREE  3 bdrm, sm. garage. gas heat,  Spring Break Packages are going  WE WON'T KNOW WHAT TO DO.  FOR LIFE.  

page 13

Monday, December 7, 1999 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
Abortion, euthanasia and capital punishment demean the lives of countless individuals in our society. 
Gather with us in Eucharistic Adoration to pray for an end to the culture of death. 

"I malle a holy hour each day in the presence of Jesus in the Blessed Sacrament. All my sisters of the Missionaries of Charity mahe a daily holy hour as well, because we find that through our daily holy hour our love for Jesus becomes more intimare, our love for each other more understanding, and our love for the poor more 
• II
compasswnal.e... 
-Mother Teresa 

Sponsored by Notre Dame Right to Life AMDG • IMJ 
Jesus is here with us in the Eucharist to give us answers-answers that will lead us to truth, happiness and peace. In this culture of death, it is easy for people to become weary and indifferent to God and His gift of life. People often fall short of their obligation to care for and nunure the spiritual and physical lives of themselves and oth­ers. Eucharistic Adoration gives a person the opportunity to nurture 
his own spiritual life, as well as the spiritual lives of others 
( through prayer for them.) Prayer also protects the physical 
lives of those endangered by abortion, euthanasia and 
other forms of violence. It is only through the grace which 
comes from prayer that others' hearts can be changed from seeking death to loving life. Christ gives us the strength to press on in our battle for life. In order to be Christ-like in our service to preserve life, we must be filled with His life through prayer. We ask you to join us in prayer for life at Eucharistic Adoration. 
What is Eucharistic Adoration? 
God is present to us in many ways in our world, but He is especially present to us in the Eucharist. As Roman Catholics, we believe that Jesus Christ, who lived 2000 years ago, is truly present in the Eucharist. In Eucharistic Adoration, the Host is placed in a monstrance, in order for us to be able to come and pray. Jesus is always hidden in the tabernacle, but in adoration He is exposed so that we can come and kneel before Him, face to face, and speak with God. When Jesus is exposed like this, He can never be left alone. Thus, people sign up to be responsible to come and pray with Hirn for a certain amount oftirne (usually ½-I hour) every week. 
Why should I go? 
lfJesus were to come to the JACC, wouldn't you come and stand in line for hours just to talk to Him for a minute? Even if you weren't Christian, wouldn't you be at least interested in this God so many people talk about? Well, Jesus is truly present here on campus-in the Eucharist. IN ADORATION YOU HAVE THE OPPORTUNllYTO GO AND SPEAK WITH GOD FACE TO FACE. You can confide in Him, plead with Him, question I-Jim. And if you sit quietly enough, He will inspire you with answers. 
What do I do when I am there? 
When you enter the chapel, you should genuflect as a sign of reverence to Jesus. It is common practice during Adoration to genuflect on two knees, instead of just one (like you do whenever you enter a chapel.) You can stand, sit, or kneel-whatever helps you pray. And then you pray. There are many ways to pray: you can do spiritual reading; you can pray a rosary; you can sit in silence; you can even just talk to Jesus­1ike you would to a friend. The most important thing is that you love Him and allow Him to love and strengthen you. 
What does the Church think? 
"Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament, whether in II pyx or a monstrance, is a recognition of the wondrous Presence of Christ in the sacrament and stimulates us to unite ourselves to Him in a spiritual communion. It is, accordingly, eminently in harmony with the worship which we owe Him in spirit and truth ... " 
-Post-Conciliar (Vatican 11) Document, S.C.D.W. 
EUCHARISTIC ADORATION ON CAMPUS: 
FRIDAY: Blessed Mother Chapel in the Basilica: 12:00pm (following 11:30am Mass) -5:00pm with a Rosaiy beginning at 4:15pm. (Ends with Benediction at 4:45pm) 
MONDAY beginning at 11:30pm (following 11:00pm Mass) through TUESDAY at 10:00pm (Ending with Benediction at 9:45-10:00pm) In Fisher Hall Chapel. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, December 7, 1998 
¦ SAINT MARY'S BASKETBALL 
Belles finish runners-up to Doane College at Classic 
By MOLLY McVOY 
Spores Writer 
The First Annual Inn at Saint Mary's Roundball Classic was a success even though the Belles of Saint Mary's were the run­ners-up. 
Doane College, a perennial Division II powerhouse, captured the title by winning both of its games by large margins. 
Doane defeated Bethel College in the semifinal round on Friday, 


winning 75 -70. Also on Friday, Saint Mary's beat Kendall College 63 -55. 
The Belles had not faced Kendall before this tournamenl. Their main objective was to win this game and, as head coach Dave Roeder said, "Things will happen from there." 
Kendall and the Belles were fairly evenly matched, but Saint Mary's proved to have the edge in the end. 
Kendall committed nearly 
three times as many fouls as the Belles leading to the Belles scor­ing four times as many points from the charity stripe. 
Roeder was happy with the Belles' performance on Friday in what was a close game. 
"I think we had a little more talent; we had a better ability to shoot," he said. "They may have been a little quicker and that made it hard to defend them, but we ~~nk some key shots at the end. 
Leading scorers for Saint Mary's were freshman Mary Campione (11 points.), senior co­captain Charlotte Albrecht (10 points.), senior co-captain Nicole Grillin (10 points.) and freshman Amy Clark (10 points.). 
"Our team just had more depth," said Campione. "When it came down to crunch time at the end, we had better legs left." 
Doane faced Saint Mary's in the championship game while Kendall faced Bethel in the con­solation game on Saturday. Doane proved to be too much for Saint Mary's, winning 76 -45. 
The Belles played tough but could not overcome the experi­ence and talent of Doane. 
"They've been to the final four for the past three years. They just have more experience, and the ability to give scholarships to their players," said Roeder. "They have a lot of talcmted play­ers." 
The Belles were not out-shot by a wide margin but their shooting percentage was much lower. 
The Belles shot 21 percent from the floor while Doane shot 36 percent. 
Despite numerous scoring streaks, the Belles were unable 

to consistently out play Doane. 
Leading scorers for the Belles were Albrecht (11 points.). sophomore Julie Norman (9 points.). and freshman Kelly Jones (10 points.). Even though they did not return victorious, this tournament gave the entire team some needed playing time. It also gave Roeder an opportu­nity to evaluate his team. 
"Right now, we're playing a lot of different people," he said. "We need to settle into a rotation and a consistent line-up." 
This tournament may have given him some inclination as to who to play in the l'uture. 
In the consolation round, Bethel recovered from their ear­lier defeat and downed Kendall, 81 -53. 
Next up for the Belles is an important home conference game on Wednesday versus Olivet College. 
... . ­
-·­
..
-
. •­
--.. 
4•­
-..
•
..
-
.
30%*-70%* Off • 
All Merchandise -­
Excluding Go.l:C B.a_lls 
December 11 <lll{v
-Includes extra 20~ disco-..
.. 
•. 

~ -:Pro ... S ..bop___ H_o_urs .. = 9-5 lVIon-Fri
.................. 
---~------------~---------------------------­
-
page 15

Monday, December 7, I 998 The Observer• SPORTS 
tlrn opposing defense by sprint­"The JU game was a good did a pretty good job passing, ing out for easy transition bas­game for us, but let mc tell you and obviously, we had a great
B-Ball V-ball 
kets. this team was spent after that performance out of Kristy 
continued from page 20 
IO rohounds. 
l(von though the outcome was ncv1:r in doubt. MacLeod did react to tlrn second hall'. 
"W1\ didn't respond Wl\ll to t!w ddimsiw prnssurc in the sm:on<l lrnll'. We didn"t handle Urn ball w1\l1, but <)V(w-all I saw a lot of' gooc! things today," hB said. 
Troy Murphy bl tlw team in scoring with 16 points on :i-or-<1 shooting from the floor. Murphy s i n gIn -han ct <HI Iy p II t C n 11 tra I Michigan to bod in tlrn sPrond half' with six points in tl11: first thr1in minutns coming on t.wo rovnrse dunks and an allny-oop lay up. 
David Gravns scorml I:i points and constantly put priissurn on 
llarold Swanagan continued to impross and should receive more playing limn in tho future. Swanagan had s1wcn points, six rnbounds and two assists, and wowed lhn crowd with two thundtirous blocks in the first hall'. 
Swanagan and Murphy contin­ually crashed the boards, cspc1­1:ially on the o!fonsive glass. 
"Coach Mad.nod stn~sscs the ol'li•nsive rnbo~111ding." Murphy said. "Wn rlo drills in practice and Coach watches tlrn stats to sno how many we have and if we rwerl to work even harder." 
This kind of win was just what the Irish n11oded after the disap­pointment of lotting the Indiana game slip away in the last min­utns. 
game. We played a lot of games over tho weekend, it was good to see tho loam could bouncc back and play hard," MacLeod said. 
Murphy and his teammates also had the Indiana game on their mind. 
"We knew we let the Indiana game slip away," Murphy said. "We heard Central Michigan was practicing 45 minutes before the game and were really stressing this as a potential upset. We wantnd to protod our home court and were able to do it." 
Notre Dame has two solid games in a row. Tlrn freshmen are showing signs of leadership on the court and will get their first taste of Big East action at 
Providence on Tuesday. 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development presents ..... 
01118n in Entrepreneuriaffs ~ 1998 Conference Mondav, December1th,1998 5:00-1:00PM 
Jordan Auditorium College of Business Ad11lnlstraUon 
"' 
continued from page 20 

but Stanford tallied seven con­secutive points on its next pos­session to keep the match out of roach for the Irish. 
Notre Dame startf~d off well in game two, jumping out to a 3-1 load on an ace by senior captain Lindsay Treadwell and two Cardinal hitting errors. But the Irish wore only able to score two more points in the game, as Stanford used the serving of Lindsay Kagawa and strong team blocking tu put the game away. 
Stanford leapt to a 5-0 lead in game three, after which the Irish scored their lone point of the game on a Cardinal hitting error. The Stanford blocking and digs proved too much for the Irish as they were unable to get any sort of offense going. 
Stanford hit an outstanding .422 in the second-round match, while the Irish could only manage .o:n hitting. The Cardinal had twice as many kills as the Irish with 48. and also outdid the Irish -in blocks and digs. Notre Dame was also hurt by errors, as tho team recorded 21 in the match. 
The Irish droppP.d to 0-5 in the all-time series against Stanford with the loss. 
In the first round of Urn tour­nament. tho Irish used out­standing performances by Kreher and middle blocker Treadwell to eliminate the Eagles. Kreher hit .541 to lead Noire Dame, recording u career-high 24 kills and 31 attempts. She earned her first career triple-double with the addition of' 14 assists. Treadwell also had a triple­double, with 11 kills, 16 digs and a team-high 10 blocks. 
"I think we did a lot of really good things," said Brown. "Our blocking was really good, we the return of' sophomorr, seUBr Doniso Boylan to action. Boylan started the match and had 25 assists, while only able to play in the back row. It was her first time playing since tearing liga­ments in her right elbow on Oct. 24. Miclrnlle Graham. who replaced Boylan in her absence, added 16 assists. 
Krehor  and  Lindsay  
Treadwell."  
The Irish  were assisted by  

Brown considered tho key to the match to be the !'act that tlrn Irish shut down Eastern Washington's star playur Kim Exner. Exnor hit an abysmal .051 for the Eagles, contribut­ing l 3 errors in her learn 's loss. 
The Irish hit .251J to tho Eagles' .120, while only com­mitting 22 errors. They also outblockod Eastern Washington 16.5 to eight. 
Junior Emily Schiebout con­tributed to the Irish attack with eight kills, while Mary Leffers added six blocks and Jo Jameyson had nine digs. 
Several players earned hon­ors for the Irish this s1iason. Freshman outside hitter Marcie Bomhack was named to the Big East all-rookie team and was named the Big East tourna­ment MVP. Treadwell was selected to the all-Big East first team and tho Academic All­District team. Sophomore Christi Girton was chosen /'or the all-Big East second team, and Kreher was a Big East all­rookie team pick. 
This season marks the first time under Brown in which thc Irish have not had at lea.st 20 wins. Despite the lack of wins, the Irish have a bright futurn, as the only graduating team member who saw any playing time this season is Troadwf1II. The rest of the team will be back for the 1999 snason. 

BAKER'S CYCLING & FITNESS
1999-2000 Assistant 
WE ALSO CARRY 277-8866 
• DWIONOBACK TUES t-.30A-7:00P BIG BIKE 
•ROBINSON

ft 
:'!ft::»:=i.~=pSALE ON 
CLOOEDSUN THE 12TH

Rector Applications 
' BIKES FOff AU. AQES_, 135 DIXIE WAY SOUTl1 
for 

UNDERGRADS:
University Residence Facilities 
DON'T MISS THIS ()PP()RTUNITY! 
Are Now Available 
BIOSPHERE 2: SEMESTER 'ABROAD' 
Slots still available for SPRING 2000 Open to all 1najors Interested students should pick up an application or call: 152A FITZPATRICK HALL, Xl-8376 or check this website http://www.bio2.edu 
SCH't/VINN 
r 


--w-­

Monday, Decmber 7, 1999 The Observer· PAID ADvTRTISEMENT page 16 
... 

Rec::.,,_ a. 

Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 

Carolyn Parnell, formerly of Walsh Hall, currently lives off-campus. A finance major from Rockville, Maryland, Carolyn has participated in a wide variety of RecSports activities including women's football, soccer, biathlon, Late Night Olympics and is a frequent user of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Carolyn has led Walsh Hall into the women's football playoffs for the past four years as the starting quarterback. 
Recipients receive <I:~ merchandise from the 
&ll 
VARSITY SHOP 

"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 
R~:.----=;~.,. ~ ~~.......:__ www.nd.edu/-recsport Upcoming Events & Dea ·•  altK. VARSITY SHOP 'l'I' "Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear"  
20% off of  
Weekend Indoor Soccer Tournament December 4 & 5  <I:~  
Open to all Notre Dame Students 3 on 3 Plus Goalie  Jackets at the  
One Division  
Rink is Walled and Netted Register a Team at RecSports Limited to First 12 Teams to Enter Deadline is Wednesday, 12/2  &'I. VARSITY SHOP 'I~' Valid 12/2/98 -12/11 /98.  

Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive (I:~ 
~L......~.:s~ .... .a.I.
merchandise courtesy of '-&,,__.,.,,.,.,-...... and the v••; with two locations in the Joyce Center. The virr•; 
is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560) . 

Monday, December 7, J998 
The Observer• SPORTS page 17 
M. Switn 
continued from page 20 
medley, pushing Urn lime down :L58.44. Zumbach scnrnd Urn most points for thn Irish. winning both individual medleys and placing second in 
The only thing better than an iMac: 
An iMac for less than $29.99/mo/ 
Apple Computer couldn't make iMac any easier to set up or use. So they made it easier to buy. Now, if you're a student, you can get an iMac for less than $29,99 per month, with the first payment For about what you'd spend on a few pizzas, you can have a superfast computer that can get you onto the Internet in 10 min­utes right out of the box. You also get a coupon book with 
$2,000 in possible additional savings, for things like software, games and accessories. 
Check out the Apple Student Loan Program Call 1-800-277-5356 
The gift.s keep corning because you also get acoupon book worth $2,000 in additional value for software, games and accessories and a$30 RAM upgrade credit. 
Call nowfor Apple's specialND Student offers! 
OIT Solutions Center 
Rm 112 Computing/Math Bldg 

Think different.
W\vw.apple.com/cducaticm/storc 
li:>1998 Apple Comp111e1; Inc. All righls resert'ed. Apple and the Apple lof.;O are regis1ered lrademarks and iMac is a trademark 
ofApple Co111p111er, Inc. PowerPC is a rrademark ofIBM Corp. Purchase ji'om a participating Apple-autbonzed campus 
l'f!Sel/erorfmm !he tipple .\'lore for l:'cl11wtio11. 

the 200-yard butterfly. 
"This year's meet will help 1istablish around tho country that the Notre Dame Invitational is a solid. pre­
Christmas nrnHt," Welsh said. 
"We wanted to be the fastest team in the pool, and we were. We had 26 guys and 26 great ments." 
Notre Dame's dominance over Florida State may be par­tially attributable to the fact that the Seminoles were not as prepared !'or the meet as wr.rn the Irish, according to Welsh. Kuna attributes the team's success to placing morn importance on the meet than the Seminoles and to consis­tency in summer training. 
"Across the board wo 
trained well, and it shows in 
meets like this," he said. "We 
went fastr,r than we did at Big 
East last season." 

The Irish were ahead the entire mcr,t, and usually placo threo or more swimmers in the top eight or each event. Notre Dame dominated Friday night's 400 individual medley, scoring a whopping 15 l points in a singln lit\at. With such a successful meet behind them, expectations of the Big East Championships are greatly improved for the Irish. 
"It (the win) says that our ambitions to move up in the Big East are realistic. That's the best sign. We like to say, "Yeah, you guys are right to dream or going higher," Wolsh said. 
third timll in Ann Arbor for 
the last dual meet before Big 
East Championships. 
"Our focus was on using the 
W. Swi01 
continued from p~e 20 

meet as a learning experience sprints by placing second in and preparation fur Big East. the 50 freestyle at 23.78 and It also makes the team oxcited fourth in the 100 freestyle at for our dual meet against 
51.83. Michigan," Iacobucci said, 
Michigan's Shannon The fact that the meet. was Shakespeare had the most held at home was the cause of 
notable individ­ual performance with three indi­

vidual wins, LOT OF 
'THERE WERE 
th ree meet and MENTAL CHALLENGES
pool records, 

and four NCAA COMING OFF THE BREAK AND Championship THE MINNE'SOTA MEET, AND 
automatic quali­fying times. WITH EXAMS AND PAPERS 
The meet COMING UP.' helped prepare the women for defending their 
ANNE !OCOBUCU 
Big East title as 
Co-CAPTAIN 
well as two more meetings with Michigan. 

The Irish face the Wolverines said. "We did really well con­again at January's Rainbow sidering people we going to Invitational in Honolulu, and a classes during the meet." 
r.~~5i~~~~;;~i;~;~;~~~~~ challenges"There werecominga off the
lot of mental
j 
· break and the Minnesota meet. and with exams and papers coming up, it presr.nts a challenge to focus on the meet," Iacobucci said. 
SPRING BREAK'99 
HOURS & IIOURS OF J,'REE HRINKS! Earn 2 FREE1'rips & $$$$$! C~ncun,J~maim, Rorida, Darbado~ l1,1ham:h LO\ml Pricn fllfSI l\fral Plan I•II00•n6-77IO I"nn.~un\pla,htours.com 
-
"Hight now it puts us ahead of where we f"inishod last 
year," Kuna said. "We have a 

..
slim chance to win it (Big East 
Championships). We're more confident now after this 
meet." 
Despite the upset, the Irish are not likely to be ranked among tlrn nation's top 25 teams until they send a swim­mer to the NCAA Championships in March. Szilier's 200 breaststroke con­sideration time incrnases the chances of this happening. 
The team is confident that it can swim morn qualifying times at the Big East Championships in February. Likely candidatos am Zumbach in the 400 individual medley and Hay Fitzpatrick in the 200 freestyle. 
some dis­tractions, according to Shepard a n d Iacobucci. 
"It was hardur to focus on tho m e C t because finals are coming up 
and we 
have so much else going on, Shepard 


page J 8 compiledfi:om wire reports Monday, December 7, 1998 
RANKINGS 
¦ AP POLL 
1) Tennessee 12-0 1,750 2) Florida State 11-1 1,671 3) Ohio State 10-1 1,602 4) Kansas State 11-1 1,476 5) Arizona 11-1 1,412 6) UCLA 10-1 1,398 7) Florida 9-2 1,337 8) Texas A&M 11-2 1,310 9) Wisconsin 10-1 1,176 10) Tulane 11-0 1,067 11 ) Arkansas 9-2 960 12) Georgia Tech 9-2 874 13) Virginia 9-2 817 14) Nebraska 9-3 815 15) Michigan 9-3 793 16) Air Force 11-1 689 
17) Notre Dame 9-2 665 
18) Syracuse 8-3 610 19) Georgia 8-3 478 20) Texas 8-3 442 21) Oregon 8-3 322 22) Penn State 8-3 293 23) Missouri 7-4 206 24) Miami, Fla 8-3 190 25) Mississippi St. 8-4 159 
Others receiving votes: Virginia Tech (106), use (50), West 
Virginia (38), Purdue (21 ), Marshall (15), Miami, Ohio (4), Kentucky (3) 
¦ ESPN/COACHES' POLL 
1)Tennessee 12-0 1,548 2) Florida St. 11-1 1,464 3) Ohio St. 10-1 1,405 4) Kansas St. 11-1 1,337 5) UCLA 10-1 1,253 6) Arizona 11-1 1,244 7) Florida 9-2 1,156 8) Wisconsin 10-1 1,103 9) TexasA&M 11-2 1,092 10) Tulane 11-0 964 11) Arkansas 9-2 820 12) Virginia 9-2 818 13) Air Force 11-1 799 14) Georgia Tech 9-2 749 15) Michigan 9-3 674 16) Nebraska 9-3 590 17) Syracuse 8-3 538 
18) Notre Dame 9-2 522 
19) Georgia 8-3 405 

_, 20) Penn St 8-3 350 21) Oregon 8-3 270 22) Texas 8-3 253 23) Mississippi St. 8-4 205 24) Virginia Tech 8-3 189 25) West Virginia 8-3 127 
• BCS -FINALS 
1) Tennessee 
2) Florida State 
3) Kansas State 
4) Ohio State 
5) UCLA 
6) Texas A&M 
7) Arizona 
8) Florida 
9) Wisconsin 
10) Tulane 
11) Nebraska 
12) Virginia 
13) Arkansas 
14) Gerogia Tech 
15) Syracuse 

Upsets help determine BCS standings 
Associated Press schedule, the Volunteers and Seminoles Syracuse (8-3) in the Orange Bowl and No. came out a clear 1-2 on Sunday and were 3 Ohio State (10-1) vs. "Jo. 8 Texas A&M 
College football has the national title invitfid to play in the Fiesta Bowl on Jan. 4, (11-2) in the Sugar Bowl. matchup fans want to see every season -where the national title will be on the line. Ohio State (10-1) might have been left out No, 1 vs. No. 2. And this time it will be In the other BCS matchups, it's No. 5 of the BCS picture if either UCLA or K-State Tennessee vs. Florida State in the Fiesta had won on Saturday. 
Bowl. 
But the Bruins lost, too, beaten 49-45 by It took a wild Saturday of upsets, but 
Miami and knocked out of the national title when the results were in there was really 
picture. no need for computers, quartiles and 
UCLA, though, still gets the trip to strength-of-schedules after all. 
Pasadena as the Pac-10 champion. 

The biggest loser in the maneuvering was The BCS standings were created this No. 4 Kansas State (11-1). The \Vildcats lost season to set up a No. 1 vs. No. 2 matchup to Texas A&M 36-33 in double overtime in and incorporated The Associated Prnss' the Big 12 title game and lost out on a $12 media poll, the coaches' poll, three million payday by not being included in the ·ccomputer ratings,' Str(ln$th-of-schedule and Bowl Championship Series mix. the number of losses into the process of 
The biggest winner turned out to be No, 7 picking the top two teams. Florida, which despite losses to Tennessee The Fiesta Bowl in Tempe, Ariz .. was the and Florida State was selected because it site of the last 1-2 matchup in a postseason 
will help fill the Orange Bowl by bringing game. In the '96 Fiesta, a No. 1 Nebraska tens of thousands of fans. In the final BCS won the national title with a 62-24 rout of a standings, which uses a complicated No. 2 Florida. formula of polls, computers and strength-of-
Vols eyeing National Championship prospects 
Associated Press Mississippi State, a 
14-point underdog, put 
ATLANTA up a tougher fight than 
Let everyone else worry expected. about polls, quartiles and Tennessee was held strength of schedule. under 200 yards until 
Unbeaten Tennessee knows the fourth quarter, and it will be playing for the the Bulldogs had a national championship, chance to win because 
After Kansas State and of two long returns. UCLA were beaten Saturday, Robert Bean went 70 Tee Martin and the Volunteers yards for a touchdown brought a semblance of order after interce pting a to the Bowl Championship Martin pass before Series with a 24-14 victory Prentiss stunned the over Mississippi State in the largely orange-clad Southeastern Conference title crowd at the Georgia game. Dome with his punt 
"We have one more big one return. to play," coach Phillip Fulmer He seemed to said about his team's season. mesmerize the 
It wasn't easy. Tennessee defenders 
Tennessee (12-0) needed a with a studder step, fourth-quarter comeback then burst down the worthy of a champion to sideline without being assure itself of a chance to touched. 
play for the national title. But Martin lofted a 
Martin threw two pass into the end zone touchdown passes 28 seconds just ahead of another apart to erase Mississippi blitz. Price got a step State's 14-10 lead. on Adesola Badon and 
"The chance to play for a managed to cradle the national championship comes ball and get one foot around once in a lifetime," down for the go-ahnad said Peerless Price, who touchdown. caught a 41-yard touchdown Prentiss had 152 pass that put the Vols ahead yards on six punt with 6:15 remaining. returns, more than 
"We knew we had to pick it Mississippi State's up." offense could manage Mississippi State (8-4) went even with James ahead 14-10 on Kevin Johnson, the SEC's Prentiss' 83-yard punt return leading rusher, back in with 8:43 remaining, but the the lineup after being Vols weren't about to suffer hobbled by ankle and 
the same fate as the Jayhawks shoulder injuries. 
and Bruins. The Bulldogs had 
Martin, who was 15-of-32 only 149 yards, f'or 208 yards, directed including 38 yards on Tennessee's struggling offense 14 carries by Johnson. right down the field, throwing Madkin completed the touchdown pass to Price only 10-of-22 passes to complete a five-play, 75-for 84 yards. yard drive. "We did not throw 
Tennessee by jumping ahead ball across the goal line.
Then, after Wayne Madkin and catch the ball to help out just before the end of the first The Vols evened the score infumbled on State's next play running game," Sherrill said. 
quarter on Bean's spectacular the second period after anfrom scrimmage, Tennessee The Bulldogs managed only interception return. interception return of its own.
needed only one play to score one first down in 12 third­
When Martin overthrew Madkin, under heavy
again. down situations. 
Price on a deep pass, Bean pressure, made a freshman
Martin stood in the pocket After Tennessee built a 10-7 
managed to make a juggling mistake by heaving the allunder heavy pressure, lofting lead at the half, defense catch off his knees even when inlo coverage, and Tennessee
a perfect 26-yard pass to dominated the third quarter. 
bumped by the Tennessee safety Deon Grant drifted in
Cedrick Wilson for the The two teams combined for 
receiver. front of the receiver to pick
clinching touchdown with only 52 yards, but that only 
Going back the other way, off the pass.
5:47 left. set the stage for a thrilling 
Bean almost ran out of Grant showed some nifty
Tennessee won its second final period. 
bounds along the right running on a 24-yard return
straight SEC title largely Travis Henry had 120 yards 
sideline before cutting to the Mississippi State 20,
because of its defense, which rushing, 79 coming in the 
straight back across the field, and the Vols quickly moved
limited the Bulldogs to 145 final period when the State 
picking up a block from safety into position for Travis
yards and didn't allow their defenders finally tired. 
Ashley Cooper and tiptoeing Stephens' 2-yard touchdown
offense to score a touchdown. The Bulldogs surprised the final five yards to stick the run. 


Monday, December 7, 1998 The Observer • 1·uDAY page 19 
l OOKINC THROl TC.I I THE WIZARD OF ND 
PANNY, t Dot.J'r }(NOW H{jk) you 
JOE BARl>rAN SULI.IVAN 
ONE w[Ek AND 1roo ~ll£5 LATER ... 

FOXTROT 
I CAN''l' BELIEVE I kAVE 
To WA'l'C.H "A CHR1STMAS CAROL~ oN T'J F'oR SCHOOL 
ToNtGHT 
OF ALL LOOS"( 
NIGHTS.' 

CROSSWORD 
WHAT'S MoM'S MAICING WRoNG HER GARUC, 
Wl'Tl-1 GREEN Pf!IPfR 
ToN16HT? AND ToRI 
iJ 

ACROSS 27 Henry ll's house 1 Jolly 30 ---Felipe 9 Affected 31 Settled, in a way 
15 Not very 32 Modern name important of Tyre 1·6 Brogue 33 Made fit 17 Wole Soyinka, 35 Trace for one 
39--out (do 18 Dissatisfied nothing) customer's 
40 Passion 

demand 
personified 19 Not right 
41 Exercise 20 Mocking 
42 Edward 22 Whitewash Gibbon's ingredient subject 23 Bell 46 Gold Seal co. 
25 Subject of one 47 Classic of Plutarch's documentary "Lives" "Man of--" 
26 Hard water 48Tiny bit 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
MONOPOLY GILDED ORATORIO S E T T L I N G 13 Embellished 



14 It may be hard to trade 
D A A W I N  ..;;.s..K..-_1j.....-4--+-.---1 21 Skunk  
A P I  E C E  V E R O N E S E  23 Maintain  
M  A  P  L E S  P  R O  P  E  R  T  V  24 Sally  

CHILI Fol DINNER. 
I 

49 Luxury home features so Some supplements 
53 Royal rival 54 "Volpone" penner 
55 Relative of perlite 58 Picks 59 Glittery trim 60 Mother of mercy 61 Risk 
DOWN 

1 Francesco del Gioconda's wife 2 Not sympathetic 3 Organize rigidly 
4"-Eyes" 
(1969 hit) 5 Outside of France? & Calendar abbr. 
7 Nafta ratifier &Mild Ring combatant 10 Farm team 
131LL AMEl'<D  
AH. 'l'HE MEAL oF A 'Tl-lOUSAND NIGHTMARES. \A~  I SHUDDER To THIN!< WHAT KIND oF WE1RD  www lol(lrol com  So How Do 'Yoo LIKE THIS NEW OPERATING SYSTEM? '_r)  


Puzzle by Daniel R. Stark 
27 Punc. mark 2a On terra firma 29 Semblance 
34 Fade away 35lv1ittimus or mandamus 36 Bruise discoloration 
37 Step up 
38 Syllogist 
40 One of a series 42Simple propulsion unit 

43 Jim Palmer was 52 Archeologist's one handle 
44 Bearing 53 Chichi --, Japan
45 Future year 49 Seville or De Ville 56 Coal container 51 Molders 57 Not up 
Answers to any three clues in this puule are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES_B_O_R_N_O_N_T_H_IS___V_I_R_G_O_(_A_ug-.-23---S-ep_t_.21.-),-1-od_a_y~ 
DAY: Ellen Burstyn, Tom Waits, Larry 
Bird, Harl)' Chapin 

Happy Birthday: You'll have it all this year if you've been working hard to reach your goals. Your diplomacy and benevolent nature have won you points; now you must complete what you've started. You'll know how to tum your life into exactly what you want it to be. Expansion is in vour best interest this year. Don't hold back; it's time to indulge yourself. Yournumbers:10,19,23,29,33,48 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Take your time and you won't be sorry. Think befon-taking action. Do some­thing special for yourself; you deserve it. Do your work, but don't forget promises made to loved ones 
00000 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20): 0th­ers may want to steal your thunder. You may have emotional confronla• lions with dose friends or relatives. Avoid serious discussions and you won't need to worry. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Put all thoughts of work out of your head. It's time for you lo get serious about relaxing and meeting new friends. Look for intelligent entertainment. 
0000 

CANCER (June 21-Julr 22): Stop being so hard on yoursel . Don't let anyone back you into a comer. Follow your heart and you'll feel better in the end. Stand up for yourself and don't compromise your values. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You've gol what it takes to attract anyone you w;mt, so don't waste your time play­ing with people who are already involved with someone else. Use your .:harisma to get what you want. 000 will be progressive if you get inl'olved in worthwhile, organiza­tions. Your ideas will be well-received and lead to a great connection that will help further your goals. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-Ocl. 22): Reta, and enjo)' yourself for a change. Plan carefully and there'll be no problem getting things done on time. Set rour own standards and priorities and don't be swayed by what others want. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You'll have the energy to accomplish y,,ur goals. Don't hesitate to present your ideas and put them mto action. You'll be well-received if you talk to large groups. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You'll feel as if a weight has been lift­ed from rour shoulders; however, the stress you've encountered has taken its toll. Take the time to pJmpcr your­self and rejuvenate. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Don't trusl a deal that looks too good. You may find that your personal part· ner is fed up with your preoccupation with business. Take time to do some­thing special with the one you love. 
000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 181: You may want to take a break, but too many good opportunities are taking place in your work area. If you can mix business with pleasun-, all will be well. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You can make amends with children or good friends; however, you'll have to work hard to regain their understand­ing and trust. Take time to plan asp~· rial day with them. 000 

Birthday Baby: You lean toward the unconventional. Eager to e,rlore and quick to take on a. challenge, you're strong, stable and steadfast in al that you pursue. You are always easr to get along with and willing to bend to the needs of those you trust and admire. Your abilih· to give throughout your life will bring you the highest rewards. · 
(Need advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com.) 
Make The Observer part of your New Year's Resolution. Join our staff. Reporters and Photographers wanted. 
.... 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
.loin the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester.,  

Name ______________________ Address ____________________ City ________ State ____ Zip______ 

¦ BCS final standings ¦ Young Saint Mary's were announced yester­basketball team picked day. Tennessee will up needed experience face Florida State in at the Roundball the Fiesta Bowl. Classic.
PORTS 
p.18 p.14 
~THE 
page 20 \.Jl)SERVER Monday, December 7, 1998 

-C. 
¦ SWIMMING AND DIVING 

Irish men's team takes 
Women fall to No. 8 Wolverines 
By WES RICHARDSON 
Sports Wrirer 
The women ·s swim team placed second in the Notre Dame Invitational this week­end. defoating eight teams but narrowly losing to eighth­ranked Michigan 1151-1163. 
The Jrish were in fourth place afler Thursday's events, but pulled ahead of Colorado State and Florida State, who finished with 1016 and 9(>4.5 points, respectively. 
November's Minnesota Invitational was the primary fall meet for the women, so the team was surprised at the near win. 
"We didn't expect to be so close to Michigan." Laura Shepard said. ·'They were shaved and tapered, and we weren't rested, but most peo­ple still swam faster than they did at Minnesola." 
"Some individuals had some good races and some not so good races, but overall, being so close to Michigan, we were very pleased with our perfor­mance," co-captain Anne Iacobucci said. 
The meet featured the largest diving competition to be held at Holt's Aquatic Center. This was no obstacle to Notre Dame's strong diving corps as IIeather Mattingly, Gina Ketelhohn, and Jessica 

..---------------------------, 

¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Freshmen lead Irish to victory 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI Sports Writer 
On Saturday, the men's bas­
ketball team proved it can still 
blow out a team. at the Joyce 
Center. 

Central Michigan came onto · 
campus thinking upset, but' 
during the game's first nve 

minutes tho Irish crushed • 
those hopes. Notre Dame put·· 
together its best offensive and 

defensive efforts of the year in. 
the first half. cruising to an 
83-56 win over the visiting 
Chippewas. . .. . 
There was no hint of a let­
down from the Indiana loss 

last Tuesday in the first half. 
Notre Dame used good hall 
movement and defensive 
pressure to push the score to 
9-0 on fast-break lay-ups and 
easy inside shots. 

Before Central Michigan 
knew what was happening, · the score was 33-7 and the game was, in effect, already over N and with nine minutes 
left in· th 1, first half. 

The key to Notre Dame's 
dominance was its defensive 
intensity. The Irish forced 14 
Chippewa turnov~rs in·· the 
first half and never allowed 
any Central Michigan player 4 
good look at the bas~et. · 

Reluctant to sbQot the three-pointer early on, Central Michigan committed many of its turnovers on ill­advised entry passes into thn lane and could only manage 29°percent field goal shooting for the entire game, 
''It was our bostfirsthalf of the year;" head coach John Macl~eod said. "Our defensive intensity' Wl'iS verY,good,~ " · Most of ·the· central Michigan tlil"nover:. ·. translated into'fast break op'porturiitie1-; for David Graves and Martin lngelsby. Graves scored nine points in the first half. most on fast break lay-ups. Notre Dame also got an offensive boost off ihe bench from Jimmy Dillon with two succes­sive three-point shots that put Notn~ Dame up 24 p,)ints six minutes into the game. 
The score was 48-20 by hali'-time. .. 
To Central Michigan's crel: it, the team continued to bat­tle in the second .. haU:. Notrlil Da1ne lost some of.its focus and allowed the Chippewas to keep pace, Ja$0n Webber led Central Micfrigan ,vjth 14 points while Mike Matrciel chipped;:ifi,V\iith: 11 points and 
see B~BALL/ page 15 

first at ND Invitational 

Sophomore Szilier sets 
two records 
By WES RICHARDSON Spam Writer 
Nobody would have bet on it, but they did it anyway. 
In a three-day marathon of a meet, the men's swim team crushed its competition by compiling 1524 points tu win the fourth-annual Notre Dame Invitational. 
The Irish upset 12th-ranked Florida State, who placed a Observer file photo distant second with 1176 The women's swim team rallied from fourth place on the final day of points, followed closely by 
competition to finish second. 

Johnstone again outscored their competition. 
Mattingly won the three-meter event with 526.75 points, a meet, pool and Universitv record. She also broke he·r own one-meter team record and raised the bar to 471.45 points. Her sec-ond-place finish was followed by her teammates at third and fourth. 
Allison Newel scored a win By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN S.porrs Writer 

The :--Jotre Dame volleyball team's season was cut short with a second-round NCAA tournament loss to eighth­ranked Stanford 15-1, 15-5, and 15-1. 
In the first round of the tour­nament, the Irish defeated a 24-5 Eastern Washington team IS-2, U-15, 15-11, 15-11. 
The Irish qualified for the tournament by beating Georgetown to win the Big East championship and secure the automatic NCAA tournr.y hid. Under eighth-year head coach Debbie Brown, the squad fin­ished the year with an 18-3 re cord, earning its seven th straight NCAA tournament appearanc(1. 
Notre Dame's season-ending match, played on the Cardinal homecourt, was dominated by Stanford (27-3) throughout. 
"We really were just out­played in every aspect of the game," said Brown. "We weren't really able to run any kind of an offense." 
The defending national champions jumped out to an early lead, scoring the first six points in the first game on one possession. Freshman Kristy Kreher stopped the run with a cross-court kill for Notre Dame, 
see V-BALL/ page 15 

Said Vince Kuna, "We actu­ally thought we were locked into Sflcond place, so I was really surprised that we beat Florida State." 
The weekend at Rolfs Aquatic Center saw 12 pool records, 15 meet records and l'our University record::;. Two of these were set by Dan Szilier in the brnaststrokc events. Szilier's 56.88 in thn 100-yard breaststroke beat the record set by Colin Cooley in 1993 by one hundredth of a second. 
Szilier then obliterated a seven-year-old record on Saturday with a 2:01.02 in the 200-yard breaststroke. The time is a full two seconds !'aster than Ed Broderick's old record, and is the men's sec­ond ever NCAA Championships consideration time. 
Brian Skorney broke his·own team rocord in the 100 back­stroke twice, once leading off Thursday's 400 medley relay with a 50. 94, and again during the preliminaries of Friday's individual event at 50. 76. 
Scoii Zumbach sliced a tenth of a second off his own team record in the 400 individual 
see M. SWIM /page 17 Western Kentucky with 11 :rn points and Michigan State at 1085. Ball State, Ohio, West Virginia, and the Wisconsin­Milwaukee divers rounded out the field. 

"We had no conception that this was a winnable meet," coach Tim Welsh said. "We were interested in beating the clock and not beating oppo­nents. As it turns out, both things happened." 
for the Irish with a 2:04.48 in the 200-yard butterfly. Co­captain Liz Rarger followed her in third place. Allison Lloyd won the 200-yard breaststroke with a 2:19.61, and was followed by team­mate Shannon Suddarth at 2:20.55. 
Carrie Nixon continued to show her prominence in the 
see W. SWIM/ page 17 
¦ VOLLEYBALL 
at Gator Bowl vs. Georgia 
at Providence 
Tech, Jan. I 
Tuesday, 7:30 p.m. 
SPORTS 

Saint Mary's Basketball 
vs, Connecricur vs, Olivet College Tuesday, 7 p.m. at North Dakota Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Jan. 2 
ATA 

GLANCE 





