
Monday, February 2, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No.82 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
1111 1\. TD t d f incurred.
1v1any 1v, S U en S Bouncers at Bridget's 
required two forms of
face COUrt dateS {Of i~entification F~i~ay 
· k •
Un derage dr1n 1ng 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
More than 165 patrons received cita­tions for underage drinking at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station Friday night, according to the South Bend Police Department. 
WNDU-16 reported that Stop Underage Drinking and Sales (SUDS) confiscated more than 100 pieces of false identification. Police cited Bridget's for violations of the state liquor laws, the press release stated, and all minors were reportedly between the ages of 17 and 20. 
Management voluntarily closed the tavern indefinitely, according to WNDU, and more raids are expected at local bars in the coming weeks. 
The cited minors await a March 6 hearing at which a penalty will be set. Neither the bar's management nor the police could be reached for comment about any fines Bridget's may have 
BUSTED: SUDS raids Bridget McGuire's 

The ObseiVer/John Daily Bridget McGuire's Filling Station looks very different without police cars, sirens and flashing lights. The local bar was raided Friday, and many students were cited for underage drinking. 
mght before adm1ttmg anyone, according to an underage Notre Dame freshman who asked to remain anoynomous. 
"They demanded another form, and then suggested that the people go down to Hollywood Video and get a member­ship card as a second form of ID," he said. "Then, they let all those people in with the video cards." 
miE JffJMIJ/JJ 
Witnesses said two undercover officers led the raid, aided by a SUDS unit comprised of officers from the South Bend, Mishawaka, and St. Joseph County Police Departments, as well as 
Indiana State Excise Officers. 
"There was a gentleman and lady at the bar who looked pretty suspicious," said the male student. "When the raid began, they pulled out their badges and ended up leading it." 

Said 21-year-old senior Angela Ball, "About 20 cops showed up, and when they came through the front door, peo­ple started moving toward the back door." 
Police ordered patrons of legal age to move toward the door and present identification to an officer before exit­ing, Ball said. SUDS told the group that 
see BRIDGET'S I page 4 


Asmus resigns as head of ND Radiation Building 
$13.3 milion from 1998-2000. By LOUBEL CRUZ This represents the News Writer University's largest single con­
tract. 
Klaus-Dieter Asmus, profes-"I had the formal responsi­sor of chemistry and biochem-bility of providing DOE with a istry, stepped down as head of justification for funding. I had the Radiation Research to produce a research propos­Building after serving two al and budget to them with years as director. the help of my colleagues," 
Since taking the job in 1995, said Asmus. Asmus has directed the "The radiation laboratory is research at the Radiation entirely funded by the Research Building Department and represented of Energy; Notre Dame on ' we are fully
various occasions. I HAVE ENJOYED BEING maintained "I have enjoyed DIRECTOR VERY MUCH. I by them," being director COULD INITIATE MANY said Asmus. very much. I could At the initiate many RESEARCH IDEAS AND IMPLE-laboratory, research ideas MENT THE RESEARCH ACTIVI-Ad I. sr erne tue ds 
and implement the research activity," TIFS.' res ear c h said Asmus. r a n g i n g 
During his time from study-
as director, Asmus KLAUS-DIETER ASMUS ing the successfully nego-effects of tiated a three-year radiation of 
renewal of the matter to laboratory's funding from the using a Pulse Radio Facility to Department of Energy (DOE). look directly at chemical Under the renewal agreement, intermediates on a time scale. the University anticipates some $3.7 million in funding during 1998 and more than see ASMUS I page 4 

Panel discussion will begin AIDS week activi-
The panel is part of a week-long Tonight's panel will include Sister tions from the audience. By ERIN LUM schedule of educational activities dedi­Rose Firkus (AIDS ministries), Father "I want to look at the grass-roots level News Writer cated to the issue of AIDS, according to Andres Gulgas (Holy Cross Priest), Rob of parish ministry and how parishes can 
Rosanna Ventrone, the event's organiz­Ercoline (Little Flower Church), Brother respond positively to people who are 
A group of five panelists will gather er and education chair for the AIDS Steve Nani (Hospice of St. Joseph affected or infected," said Ercoline. tonight to share their experiences work­quilt committee. County) and Greg Sanchez (LeMAC Ercoline directs the Outreach ing with AIDS patients in a panel dis­"These activities will all help to pro­director). Ministries program at his church by 
assisting people with necessities such ascussion called "The Catholic Response mote the showing of the AIDS quilt here Panelists will speak about their work to AIDS." on campus this weekend," she said. with AIDS patients and answer ques­
see AIDS I page 4 

page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 2, 1998 

• INSIDE COLUMN 

Licensed to Ride 
I don't have a license. In __L_o_r_i_Al-le_n__ fact. I sometimes have trou-
Saim Mary's Editor 
ble spelling the word------­liennse. (I would have spelled it wrong in this artide too if it wasn't for spell cheek.) I never really neednd one. Growing up outside of New York City presented me with the beauty and the splendor that is mass transportation at a very young age. 
I rcmemb1~r jumping ofT a bus when I was 6 years old into the jaws of "Little Italy" with my grandmother (who still doesn't have a license) and seeing very few ears; cabs maybe, but no cars. There was no need for one. Anywhere you needed to go there was a way to get there, guaranteed. Buses, subways, trains, all you had to do was choose. 
I thought about getting a license though. As a freshman in high school I thought it might be cool to "cruise the avenue" with the Mustang driving, Cavaricci wearing, Vanilla lee fans. I would be the first of my friends. I would be eool. Luckily that phase didn't last very long. 
It was never an oddity until I came here. Several of my friends and family members don't have a license, so I never really thought twice about it. I didn't wait until the day I turned 17 (or 1(,, depending on how much your particular state trusts you). It was never a big deal. 
But the day it became a big deal, I will never forget. I watched my family drive away my freshman year and it all of a sudden occurred to me that my main source of transportation had become the "Shuttle." No more pleasant smelling subways or kamikaze buses. No more late night train rides into the heart of New York. I was without a license in Indiana. But I got over it. 
What amazes me is that the card-carrying, motor vehicle lkensed population can't. Every time someone finds out that I don't have a license their eyes widen and their face takes on this expression of pity that I'm aceustomed to by now. A guy once apologized to me. It's okay, though. Heally. It's actually kind of fun. I'm never the "DD." 

Talk about discrimination though. Have you ever been on the checkout line at Meijer with a eart full of groceries, a check, and no license'! Someone with stone-washed jeans, blue eye shadow and a side ponytail looks at you like you're the weird one. "So how'd you lose it'!" I was asked once. 
It's also become habit for me to carry around a copy of my birth certificate. Just owning a stat1~ II) (even if it's authentic) doesn't cut it at any of the "real bars." (For those in the same predicament, I hear a registration slip will also do.) 
Like most of life's decisions, this is a choice. It's not that I can't drive (I can, but just not well); I opt not to. It's more fun this way. While I may never know the feel of the open road as the driver, I've become a professional passen­ger. I've taken every mode of transportation and am far bettnr ofT for it. The people I've met, the faces I've seen, the situations I've encoun­tered, I couldn't have done any of it with a license. 
I know I'll need a license someday, but I'll worry about that when that day comes. I have a l'ew more years of cruising ahead of me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Kristi Klitsch  Nate Willis  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Tom Roland  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Ed Llull  Joe Stark  


Hunger-striking student given trespass warning 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 
Almost three weeks after a first­year law student began a hunger strike in protest of what he termed unfair treatment by the school of law, university officials asked the student to leave campus and not to return without prior approval. 
Edward Shlikas, a first-year student 
in the law school during the 1996-97 academic year, filed a lawsuit against the law school in late 1997 for more than $125 million in punitive and compensatory damages and expenses. 
Shlikas accepted a trespass warning from a University Police officer on Jan. 26 and left campus. 
lie had been sitting outside the main entrance of Wake Forest's Worrell Professional Center during business hours to remind people of his protest. 
He returned to his spot Jan. 27, but University Police detective Jim Hay escorted Shlikas off the premises. 

"By asking Mr. Shlikas to leave campus, we hope that he will be inclined to end his fast and take prop­er nourishment," said Robert K. Walsh, the dean of the law school. 
"Mr. Shlikas is not a student here, and it is in everyone's best interest, including his own, that he not remain on campus," Walsh said. 
Shlikas, however, said, "I'm still a student in good standing." 
The law school administration granted his request for a leave of absence for the entire 1997-98 acade­mic year. When classes began this semester, Shlikas requested readmis­sion for the spring 1998 semester, but the law school denied his n~quest. "Mr. Shlikas' request for readmission was dedined because he was not will­ing to make a commitment to abide by the policies and procedurns of the law school," Walsh said. 
Shlikas said that lw plans to filn an appeal with Univnrsity Police. The ofJ1cers told Shlikas that if' he comBs back again he will be considered a trespasser and that Winston-Salem police will be called in to arrest him. 
Shlikas put up no resistance when the officers asked him to lnave, because his mother had called him and asked for him not to be civilly dis­obedient, he said. 
lie has not ended his hunger strike, and he said that he dons not plan to withdraw his case. "I firmly bdieve in my case," he said. 
• PENNSYLVANIA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Professor says 'joint' illegally seized 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Professor Emeritus Julian Heicklen is a man of his word. Two weeks ago, the chemistry professor claimed he would be back to smoke another "joint" on campus. Thursday, he lit up again with the promise he will return every week until his cause is reached. Heicklen set up his lawn chair and started smoking before about 100 people. University Police Services officers then confiscated the cigarette. Claiming University police had performed an "illegal seizure" of the cigarette, Heicklen urged the crowd to write to the district attorney and tell them what happened. "It was a theft. The police officer committed a crime," he said. In his speech, lleicklen called for support from the students and the com­munity. "I want you to pressure the district attorney, saying you were a witness to a robbery," he said. The last time I Ieicklen protested in this way, the cigarette was not confis­cated because its contents were determined on the scene not to be marijuana, University police said. lleicklen said it was marijuana. 
• UNIVERSITY Of ARIZONA 

Student dies in car crash 
TUCSON, Ariz. 
A senior was killed last week when the car she was dri­ving slammed head-on into a pickup truck in Tucson. Erica Lynn Bowden, 21, was driving on an area highway when her Plymouth Neon and an lsuzu pickup collided head-on, said Sgt. Bill Derfus, a police department spokesman. Preliminary evidence indicated that Bowden's car drifted over the center dividing line of the two-lane road and crashed into the pickup. The pickup's driver, Bruce Lopeaux, and his wife, Juanita, were severely injured and taken to University Medical Center, where they were in criti­cal condition last night, Derfus said. The couple's 8-week­old son was in a child seat and sustained no apparent injuries. Although everyone involved was wearing a seat belt and Bowden's airbag deployed, it looked as though she was killed instantly, Derfus said. There were no indications that excessive speed, drugs or alcohol played a role in the crash. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Bomb scare has Unabomber ties 
BEHKELEY, Calif. 

The UC Police Department Bomb Squad came out to a faculty lounge Tuesday morning following the discovery of a cake with references to Unabomber and former UC Berkeley Professor Ted Kaczynski. On top of the crudnly­made chocolate cake was a photo of Kaczynski and the words, "Free Ted," clipped out of a newspaper, sfweral eyewitnesses said. Although no explosives were discov­ered in the cake, police feared that the rel'erencns to Kaczynski may have been a sign that the cake was a bomb. On Jan. 22, Kaczynski pleaded guilty to sending out 13 mail bombs-three of which resulted in death. According to John Steel. a professor in the math depart­ment, Catalina Cordoba. a student services assistant. found the cake in the department lounge. lie said that after Cordoba tasted the cake's frosting she bncame suspi­cious. "She got me and I didn't want to get near it," Steel said. "Then we called Dave llernes (the building's coordi­nator), and he looked at it and called the poliee." 
• COlORADO UNIVERSITY 
Two whistleblowers sue university 
BOULDER, Colo. 

Two former Colorado University employees who say they blew the whistle on repeated hazardous waste viola­tions over a seven-year period filed suit against the uni­versity this week in Boulder District Court, saying they were punished for their efforts. One of the plaintiffs, Michael Law, said he was fired for refusing to sign what he believed were improper documents for shipment of hazardous waste Hichard Siani, a former hazardous­waste team manager, said the resulting stress caused him to have a massive heart attack, which required a heart transplant. Both were employees of CU's Environmental Health and Safety Department, whieh is responsible for managing hazardous waste on campus. CU ol'fieials have not reviewed the lawsuit and declined to comment on the specific environmental violation allegations, according to CU spokeswoman Pauline Hale. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWcather"' forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
· ,..;.........__...... H L

1"_.-/ 

Monday q, 39 26 Tuesday ~35 24 Wednesday~ 34 26 Thursday ~36 26 
Fri"f!J~-/'>/'~ 38 26 

• NATIONAl WEATHER 

The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Feb. 2. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
30s 
~ 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday 

~~~uuu {) ~ u
',"''' "''' :. ...... ·!:;:!·.::!· -:.-:.-:. 
excepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow leo Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
[he Associacc:d Press. All reproduction rights al-e rc:sc:rvc:d. 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNel 

Atlanta  48  42  Denver  49  25  Omaha  38  22  
Billings  39  25  Detroit  42  26  Phoenix  71  54  
Boston  47  34  Las Vegas 60  46  Portland  52  38  
Charlotte  53  43  Miami  77  70  Richmond 55  36  
Dallas  63  39  New York  48  38  San Diego 65  54  

Monday, February 2, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND establishes six new 

Saint Mary's galleries displa 
chairs in Sorin's name 
work of artist Douglas Tyler 
fied instructors  
in their respec- CONTINUING THAT ADVANCE­ 
tive fields to fill  MENT.'  
the positions.  
"This is a gift  

at the college, spoke about 
Academy of Art.  
He has been  on  the art  
faculty  of  Saint  Mary's  
College since 1977.  



By KRISTY KATZMANN 
News Writer 
As a msult of an 8 million dol­lar gift from an anonymous donor. six faculty chairs will be 
established through the new Edward Frederick Sorin Program in the next I.ew years. 
One chair will 
be used for each 
of the four col­leges: Arts and Letters, Science, EnginRering and Business Administration. as well as the Law and 
A r c h i t e c t u r e Schools. Notre Dame will seck 
"Notre Dame's rise in the ranks of the nation's most dis­tinguished universities has been much commented upon of late, 
Special to The 
Observer
and we launch the Sorin Program with the highest expectations of continuing that 
'NOTRE DAME'S RISE IN 
THE RANKS OF THE NATION'S MOST DISTIN­GUISHED UNIVERSITIES HAS 
BEEN MUCH COMMENTED UPON OF LATE, AND WE 
c-=----, 
LAUNCHED THE SORIN PROGRAM WITH THE 
HIGHEST 
EXPECTA­


the most quali-TIONS OF Malloy 
advance­ment," said University President Father Edward Malloy. 
"The quality of the faculty, out of all aspects of education, has the most direct impact on the quality of the stu­dents' educa­t i o n , " explained 
Moore. 

M 0 r e a u Theatre Gallery on Saint Mary's campus. 
The dona­

Galleries on
tions which 

the campus of
will establish 

Saint Mary's College.
the Sorin 

Tyler, a professor of art
Program con-
Gallery, Tyler presents "Steps to Interactivity," tracing his work during the last 20 years. Here, through a variety of media includin.g photographs, drawings, holograms, and diffraction gratings, the viewer witnesses the unfolding of Tyler's investi­gation of the dialogue between artist and audi­ence. 
Tyler is recognized as one of the world's premier experts in the field of holography, which involves the presentation of three­dimensional images using laser beams. 
Tyler's work has been displayed throughout the United States and Europe, and is included in perma­nent collections at the Museum of Holography in New York City and at the Smithsonian Institute. 

Tyler received his mas­ter's degree in art history from Michigan State and earned a master of fine arts degree from the Cranbrook 
For more information on the exhibits, call the Saint Mary's College Moreau Galleries at 284-4655. 
Gallery hours are Tuesday through Friday, 10 
a.m. to noon and 1 p.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to noon; and Sunday 1 p.m. to 3 p.m. 
providing six PRESIDENT EDWARD MALLOY tribute to new chairs and Notre Dame's can be used to $767 million bring in highly "Generations" distinguished people," said fund-raising campaign. Public Relations and "Generations" is the largest Information Director Dennis such effort in the history of Moore. American Catholic higher edu­
cation. 

Your potential is worth 


Freebies. Everyone is handing them out. Is that enough for you? We think you deserve more. 
And at Schwab. we've got a lot more to offer. We're investing in the potential of our people. Creating a powerful technology infra­structure. And p~oviding visionary financial services. 


Which is not to say that if 
you want a new toy. you 
don't deserve one. We just thought a sound 
opportunity would be 
worth more. 


On-Campus Meet the Interviews Company 
will be conducted 
Presentation 

February 27. 
Thursday, February 26 Contact your 7-8 PM career center for Foster Room, more information. La Fortune 
Visit our new web site at: www.schwabcollege.com 


CharlesSchwab 
This is where you can do the best work of your life. 
Chon·lt'' Sd1wab & C:o.. Inc. ~!ember SIPC:/:"\YSE. Feh1·uary 1qq8. 1-.qu<~l Oppor1um1y 1-.mpln~·er. 
"Ephemeral Glands," a monumental piece by artist Douglas Tyler that spans the length of the Hammes Gallery walls, and "Steps to Interactivity," which traces the work of Tyler for the past 20 years, are the two exhibits which opened
Friday, at the 
his work last Friday in room 232 of Moreau Hall. A reception followed the speech from 5:30 to 7:30 
p.m. The exhibits are open to the public, and will con­tinue through Feb. 20. 
In "Ephemeral Garden" Tyler explores the nature of contemporary life as seem­ingly random and discon­nected. 
In his own words, he focuses on "anonymous acts of collecting inventory of the complex stimuli that constitute the environment in which we are immersed." 
In the Little Theatre 
a lot more. 


Catn;pus Ministry Events 






OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library 
631-7800 
112 Badin Hall 
631-5242 
Basilica Offices 
631-8463 
Web site: www.nd.edu./ -ministry I 


Doug Tyler's "Ephemeral Gardens" collection is currently on display in the Little 
Monday, February 2, 8:00 pm Montgomery Theater, LaFortune Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
Tuesday, February 3, 7:00pm Campus Ministry -Badin Hall Campus Bible Study 
Of special interest: . NOW! Sign up for the February 6-7 Freshmen Retreat for residents of Badin, Dillon, Lewis, Morrissey, Pasquerilla East, St. Ed's, Walsh and Zahm. Please see your Rector or stop by Campus Ministry-103 Hesburgh Library for application forms. 
Sophomore Class Retreat, Feb. 20-21 
. Hispanic First Year Students Retreat, Feb. 21-22 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 2, 1998 
From the "Since You Asked" deoartment: Don't blame SUB for no popcorn at Cushing l lbS<wcr Sratr Rc >tHt  
A photo in Friday's edition of The Observer showed a student building a pyramid out of containers of popcorn given away by Student Union Board in LaFortune. A heading on the photo asked, "Why doesn't SUB have free popcorn at Cushing?" SUB manager Andria Wisler provided the answer to that ques­tion. SUB is prohibited from providing popcorn and other foods during the weekly movie showings in the Cushing Hall auditorium by order of the University, she said.  


As01us 
continued from page 1 
However. Asmus does not want to stop there. 
"I would like to extend research beyond the field of radiation and into other fields, like organic chemistry. biologi­cal sciences and medicine, by providing underlying informa­tion," he said. 
Asmus will remain on the Notre Dame faculty and will continue to teach physical and introduetory ehemistry in the nnar future. 
"I have been teaching ft>r 25 years, and I enjoy it very much," said Asmus. 
An internationally renowned radiation chemist, Asmus came to Notre Dame from Berlin, Germany. While in Berlin, he had appointments both as a professor of physical chemistry in the Technical University of Berlin and as research scientist and chairman of the radiation chemistry department at the llahn-Mcitncr Institute. 
James Merz, vice president for graduate studies and research at Notre Dame, is serving as interim director of the laborato­ry while the search for a new permanent director is conduct­ed. 


Bridget's 
continued from page 1 
anyone trying to vacate Bridget's by using afalse lD would be arrested on-site, she added. 
"Everyone laughed, because no more than 10 people there were actually 21," the male student said. "It seemed pretty funny to us." 
Said Ball, "They looked at all our IDs, checked our address­es and names in the phone book, and generally didn't believe any of us were really 
21. 

"One friend of mine had to pull out seven forms, and they still asked her [zodiac] sign, the year she graduated high school ... anything," she added. "They even did back­gro~nd checks on some peo­ple. 
Inside, police thoroughly searched floors, wastebaskets and patrons' pockets for false identification, the male stu­dent said. Those with false IDs received a ticket for that infraction; everyone inside the bar got a "minor in tavern" citation, he stated. 
"People started shouting, 'I want to be first!' or 'I want to 
get out!' It was crazy," he said. 
"One police officer showed up 
with coffee and doughnuts for 
the other cops; they were all 
snacking while issuing cita­
tions." 
Both students remembered 
with irritation the treatment 
'ONE FRIEND OF MINE 
HAD TO PULL OUT SEVEN FORMS, AND THEY 
STILL ASKED FOR HER [ZODI­
AC] SIGN, THE YEAR SHE 
GRADUATED HIGH SCHOOL.•• 
THEY EVEN DID BACKGROUND 
CHECKS ON SOME PEOPLE.' 

ANGELA BALL NOTRE DAME STUDENT 
they received after exiting 
Bridget's. 
"I had a friend who was 
stuck inside because they 
refused to bPlieve she was 
21," Ball said. "I tried to move 
back toward the door to check 
on my friend, but the cops 
kept ordering me to start 
walking back to campus." 
Recalled the male student, 
"One officer chewed me out hecause I tried to hang out ncar the door, just to make sure my friend got out safely. They were so rude." 
Underage drinking and serv­ing alcohol to minors arc both Class C misdemeanors, pun­ishable by up to 60 days in prison and a maximum line of $500. So-called false inform­ing. or being caught with a fake ID, is a Class C infraction, resulting in a fine of up to $500 but no.jail sentence. according to the Indiana StatP Penal Code. 
!8.TJJIMfl[})fRI.§ 
By Saturday morning, the number of rumored SUDS raids topped 11, ranging from Finnigan's Irish Pub to Corby's to T.G.I. Friday's. 
Tho police press release eonfirrned the citation of a minor at Bl(~acher's Pub & Grub, loeated on Grape Hoad. SUDS officers could not be reached to confirm or deny their presence at any other South Bend establishments. 
"We were not busted at all," said Kerry Ducey, a bartender at Finnigan's. "I know there's that rumor going around, but it's not true. We weren't bust­ed." 

AIDS 
continued from page 1 
food and medicine. Brother Nani, who minis­ters to AIDS patients at a local hospice, said "I think people with IIIV are getting the message of social exclu­sion. I will be talking about how working with people who have AIDS has opened me up to people different from myself." 
The discussion will begin at 7 p.m. in room 129 DeBartolo Hall. 

You can Make ADiHerence! sex onense Services 
The Rape Crlsls Center for St Joseph County 

Become avolunteer advocate to provide: 
• 
Crisis Intervention 

• 
Emotional Support 

• 
Information 



For women, Men, and Children who have been: 
• 
Raped 

• 
Molested 

• 
Sexually Harrassed 


Call Sex Offense Services at 283-1308 NOW for information on how YOU can help! Training begins ln February. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 

Notre Dame Communication and Theatre presents 

Biddy Wells will present Peter lindford will present Beyond the Grave: The Poetry of Philip. Larkin: ASelection of Ghosts in Stories. The Poems of a Poems, and Epitaphs Very Private Man 
Tuesday, February 3 Wednesday, February 4 
4:30 p.m., Washington Hall 4:30 p.m., Washington Hall Free and open to the public Free and open to the public 
The residency of Actors from the London Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 
----------·-----------~ -----~ -----=-­
Monday, February 2, 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Britain considers tougher drunk driving laws 
LONDON 

The British government is considering low­nring the amount of alcohol a driver can con­sume legally. perhaps down to one pint of lwer. the deputy prime minister said Sunday. .John Prescott. who is also Britain's transport ministPr, said proposals to be released Monday include allowing police more free­dom to test drivers outside pubs and giving the courts greater discretion in dealing with drunkr.n driving offenses. The public will be invited to comment on the proposals. Prescott said Britain had cut the number of akhohol-related road deaths to 500 a year by introducing drink limits in recent years. "Wp've now plateaued at these 500 deaths. Tlw evidPnce shows that if you are tougher, you ran reduce these deaths," he told the British Broadcasting Corp. The current law says drivf'rs cannot haVP more than 80 mil­ligrams of alcohol in 100 milliliters of blood -a blood akohol level of .08. That would be about 1 1/2 to two pints of beer or three glasses of wine. Prescott wants to cut that to the nquivalent of one pint of beer. Neither tlw Transport Department or Scotland Yard would say what that would mean in terms of a blood alcohol level. 
Woman sues United for lack of on-flight defibrillator 
BOSTON 

A woman is suing United Airlines because its planes lack the medical equipment that she says could have saved her husband's life when ho suffered a heart attack. "I want to make United accountable," Jamie Somes, 39, told the Chicago Tribune. "They knew before that thoro was a problem and a need to update their medical kits. I hope they will wak() up and tako charge." Iler lawsuit, filed Friday in federal court in Boston, may be the lirst time an airline has been accused of fail­ing to provide lifesaving medical care in flight. Tony Molinaro, a spokesman for UnitPd. which is based in Elk Grove Village, III.. said Sunday that the airline is examining "what the right medical equipment for the aircraft should be." lie declined to comment on the lawsuit. Steven Somes. a 37 -year-old mutual fund manager on a business trip, was sitting in the first-class cabin of a United flight from Boston to San Francisco in October 1995 when he had the heart attack. lie had been given a clean bill of health by a family doctor not long before. The flight had nquiprnent required by the Federal Aviation Administration, including a blood pressure ruff. a stethoscope and medicine for acute allergic rnactions. The lawsuit contends the plane should have been equipped with a portable defibrillator, which delivers a strong nlnctric shock that can restore a normal heart rhythm during some cases of cardiac arrest. 
Nasdaq:

-66.52 1619.36 
-0.13 
NYSE: 

• 
51D.63 
-2.50 
S&P 500: 
Composite 
980.28 Volume: 
-1.21 615,000,100

7906.50 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
( !)\fi'\:..Y !Hhlll ..,,(1!·\:S(.J \(,.\I::S PBICF 
TORCH 1::-.lf.R(,y ROY fRU 622.73 42.312 ~9.688 I,ROSOU~CE INC l'SDS 105.41 7.322 14.250 IIAWAIIA!'J NATURAL HNWC 50.00 0.750 2.250 1!1\WAIIN NAT-UTS IINWCU 47.06 1.000 3.125 I'RINCf.T();\; \.iEDIA PMGIF 44.65 0.781 2.531 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
ANt\DIGICS IN'C ANAD 58.23 19.688 14.125 \F.TFAX INC JTFX 35.56 2.000 3.625 CYBF.RMEDIA INC CYBR 27.56 2.688 7.062 CARDIOVA5C DYNAM CCVD 26.88 1.562 4.250 A}AY SI'ORT5·PFD A}AYI' 25.00 1.000 3.000 
AFP Photo 

T
housands take part yesterday in the 26th anniversary march in Londonderry to commemorate Bloody Sunday, with relatives of the 13 civilians killed by paratroopers in January 1972. 
Catholics observe 'Bloody Sunday' anniversary 
British PM Blair 
to launch new 

investigation 
AssociATED PRESs 

LONDONDERRY. Northern Ireland 
More than 10,000 Catholics retraced the path Sunday where British soldiers shot and killed 13 protesters in 1972, a massacre that fueled Catholic bitter­ness toward British rule of Northern Ireland. 
Prime Minister Tony Blair's promise Thursday to launch a new investigation into the shootings known as "Bloody Sunday" sapped some of the usual anger from the annual commemora­tion. 
But the procession from the sprawl­ing Catholic Creggan district down rain­slicked slopes to the Bogside neighbor­hood where the killings took place Jan. 30, 1972, still had a militant tone. 
Beret-clad musicians played Irish republican tunes on fifes and thumped bass drums decorated with pictures of 
• LEBANON 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
MARJAYOUN, Lebanon 
Israeli warplanes blasted suspected guerrilla bases in southern Lebanon on Sunday, Lebanese security officials said. There were no immediate reports of casu­alties in the air raid. 
Later. an Israeli artillery attack hit three houses in the town of Mashgara, 15 miles east of the port of Sidon, injuring two women and a child, security officials said. 
In the air raid, Israeli fighter-bombers fired two missiles at mountain posi· tions of the Iranian~backed Hezbollah · the assault rifles and with the names of slain Irish Republican Army members. Some bands chanted "1, I, IRA!" 

In the lead, relatives of the victims carried crosses bearing their names and photos. · 
The chairman of the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party told the crowd at Free Derry Corner -marking the Bogside bound­ary where the IRA manned road barri­cades against British authorities in the early 1970s -that Blair must ensure the soldiers were charged with murder. 
"Nothing less than a full, and I mean full, judicial inquiry with international dimensions will suffice," Mitchel McLaughlin said. 
"We will not trust the British govern­ment to give us the truth." . The crowd offered polite applause and scattered catcalls to Mark Durkan, a senior member of Northern Ireland's largest Catholic party, the Social Democratic and Labor Party, who said Blair's initiative meant "the hope for truth is stronger today." 
An SDLP leader, civil rights activist John Hume, opposed the original 1972 march on the grounds it would likely turn violent. 
But Durkan noted that the marchers' demand -for an end to the imprison­ment without trial of hundreds of Catholics suspected, often wrongly, of IRA membership -was just. 
"Those who died on Bloody Sunday were peacefully demonstrating against internment. They were standing up for the proper rule of law ... but they were murdered in the name of the law," he said. 
An opinion poll published Sunday showed that about half of people in the neighboring Irish Republic favor imprisonment without trial -known as internment -for anyone who uses force. 
The poll of 1,108 people in the Sunday Independent of Dublin, con­ducted Thursday, indicated 48 percent favor imprisoning militants from both sides of the Northern Ireland divide, while 30 percent were opposed. The margin of error was 3 percent. 
Northern Ireland's security forces believe that the only way to suppress anti-British paramilitary groups would be for internment to be reintroduced and enforced on both sides of the Irish border. 







Lebanon 
Saturday. 
About 3,000 Shiites, including 50 clergymen, took part in Tlaiss' funeral amid tight army security. His body was driven in an ambulance from Baalbek to his native town of Brital for buriaL Supporters shouted slogans denouncing Hezbol­lah's moderate leader, Sheik Hassan Nasrallah. 
They also shouted against Hezbollah's patron, Iran, and Lebanese leaders. Tensions between Tufeili and Hezbollah's leadership intensified Friday when Tufeili's followers occupied a Hezbollah-run Shiite sem­
ualUDtliK, 53 
vm~ .... -"' I.ebanon on 
Muslims against ·buried 
HR<I> C\T U\<lH' IH>.f1>>,.._ slain in 
. that has split . . UliMlat!On s 1,2 million ·'"'"·''~---·and the Hezbollah 
page 6 

Monday, February 2, 1998 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL 
• MIDDLE EAST 
Saudis refuse aid in U.S. strike 
Monthlong blackout 
on Iraq; other allies hesitant


may end soon 
Associated Press 

Auocjated Puss 
MONTREAL, Quebec 

Thousands of homes in eastern Canada have spent neal'ly a month without power . 
after a fierce ice 'WE ARE NOT SECURE 
storm, and of!i­
eials say the FROM MORE FREEl· blackout could lNG RAIN' be the first of 
mnny more this 
winter. DANIELL£ GAlNIN to· have 
official, com­
The hastily IIYDRO-QUEBEC UTILJ1Y0FF!CER power by 

plicates U.S.
repaired electri­cal network is still fragile in areas that bore the brunt of last month's storm, which toppled utility poles and transmission tow­ers. 
"We an~ not secure from more freezing rain," utility of'fidal Danielle Gauvin said Saturday. 
At the peak of the outage, about 3 million people in east­ern Ontario and southern 
anonymity. 

Even U.N. Security Council 
approval of an attack would not 
change the Saudi position, the 
official said. 

The United States has plenty of 
Thai plane attacked 

by Burmese soldiers 
fighter jets and troops afloat in 
Associated Press 
BANGKOK. Thailand 

Burmese troops fired on a Thai government P.lane that !lew near a disputed island, the Bangkok Post reported Sunday. 
Both countries have soldiers on Manao Island, a 136-acre island in the Moei Hiver that separates the Thai town of Mae Sot, 230 miles northwest of Bangkok, and the Burmese city of Mya waddy 
The mounting friction bdween the two r.ountries over t.he island threatens to turn into the first armed confronta­tion between members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 
Gen. Chetta Thanajaro, Thai army commander in chief. called for a mutual withdrawal of troops from the island, the Nation newspaper reported. It is not known how many sol­diers either side has. 
The Bangkok Post said Burmese troops fired on a Thai Aviation Department plane that flew near the island Thursday. There were no other details. 
1\xilod Burmese students and ethnic: rebnls have also accused the Burmese army of shooting down a Thai army helicopter that strayed over Burmese ter­ritory last August. 
The helicopter and its four ·crew members were never found. Burma denied shooting it down. but refused to let the Thais search for it on Burmese territory for weeks. 
Democracy activists around the world and most Western countries urged ASEAN not to admit Burma as a member last July. They cited the Burmese junt:a's repression against a democracy movement led by Nobel Peace Prize winner Aung San Suu Kyi, human rights vio­lations and an alleged failure to fight drug trafficking. 
Thailand and Burma share a tense 1,300-mile border. along which live a vnlatile mix of troops from both countries, ethnic rebels and drug traffick­ers battling the Burmese gov­ernment in Rangoon. 
Enemies for centuries, rela­tions between Thailand and Burma have warmed during the past few years, partly through the work of Chetta and the man who appointed him, former Prime Minister Chavalit Yongchaiyudh. 


weapons sites, and U.S. calls for military strikes have been get­ting louder in recent weeks. 
Bill Hichardson, the U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, said Sunday that he has received commitments from two countries to publicly support the United States should it decide to attack Iraq. 
"The United Statns will not bn alone," Hichardson said during a world forum in Davos, Switzerland. lie refused to iden­tify the r.ountries. 
The U.N. inspectors must certi­fy Iraq has destroyed all of its weapons of mass destruction before the U.N. Security Council will lift tough economic sanc­tions imposed after Iraq invaded neighboring Kuwait in 1990, prompting the Gulf War. The Security Council insists on unfet­tered access for its inspectors; Iraq contends access to some sites, including presidential palaces, would violate its sover­eignty. 
Albright explained America's position Sunday night in talks with the emir of Kuwait, Sheik Jaber al-Ahmed al-Sabah. 
State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said Albright told Kuwaiti officials: "The United States stood with you when Saddam Hussein attacknd you seven years ago; the Unitod States stands with you in the face ofSaddam's threat today." 
Hubin said Albright believes she has "the 100 percent sup­port" of the government of Kuwait. 
She was to consult Monday with leaders of Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, then f'ly Tuesday to Egypt. 
The United States has more than 4,000 troops and dozens of warplanes at bases in Saudi Arabia. Saudis, however. have been increasingly uncomli>rtable about their close ties with Washington sinee the .June 1996 bombing of a U.S. military bar­racks in eastern Saudi 1\rabia. Nineteen American snrvieemen died in the attack, blamed on Muslim extn~mists. 
U.S. 
basns in Saudi Arabia and Turkey were used extensively during the Gulf War, when an American-led coalition drove Iraq out of Kuwait. But thn last 

U.S. 
missile strike against Iraq -a 1996 attack to punish President Saddam II ussnin for sending troops into a Kurdish "safe haven" in northern Iraq­was launched from U.S. war­ships in the Persian Gulf. 


Today. the United Statns has more than 24.400 troops aboard two aircraft carriers. the USS George Washington and the USS Nimitz, and their escort ships in the gulf. 
To many in the Arab world, a military strike on Iraq s·!H1ms pointless. given that Iraqi eiti­zens already are struggling from the seven years of economic sanctions. There also is distrust of Washington for its unwaver­ing support for Israel. 
"All Arabs, with one voice; should say to Am!wica, 'onough," said the Al-Ittihad daily in the United Arab Emirates. "If" Saddam abused international law once, Israel has done il 100 times." 
Others say an attack on Iraq may be designed to divert atten­tion from the sex scandal sur­rounding President Clinton. 
"If Clinton's administration is suffering a crisis because of his involvement in a sex scandal, 20 million Iraqis suffering under seven years of United Nations sanctions should not have to pay," said the Emirates' AI­Bayan daily. 
Quebec lost power. About 65,000 people remained with­out power over the weekend in the South Shore and Eastern Township regions 

DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 
America's closest ally in the Persian Gulf -Saudi Arabia ­also could be its toughest chal­lenge in building support for a 
military attack on Iraq. 
Saudi resis­tance, spelled out in com­ments Sunday by a senior Saudi south of Montreal. 
Hydro· Quebec, the provincial power com· pany, expects all its clients 
Feb. 12. 
In the so­called Blackout Triangle southeast of Montreal, utility officials have estimated that as much as 40 per cent of the power transmission infra• structure was damaged or destroyed. 
Utility workers are trying to speed up repairs by installing temporary power lines that will have to be strengthened ot· replaced in the future. 

efforts to get full cooperation from countries in the region at a time when Secretary of State Madeleine Albright was arriving to consult on the stand-off between the United Nations and Iraq. 
"Saudi Arabia will not allow any strikes against Iraq, under any circumstances, from its soil or bases in Saudi Arabia, due to the sensitivity of the issue in the Arab and Muslim world," the Saudi official told The Associated Press, speaking on condition of 
the Persian Gulf. but it relied heavily on Saudi and Turkish bases during the 1991 Gulf War. 
These days, Turkey, too, is reluctant to allow itself to be used as a launching pad. Ankara announced Sunday it would send 
Foreign Minister Ismail Cern to Baghdad to help negotiate a diplomatic end to the standoff over U.N. weapons inspections. 
Iraq has been sparring with 
U.N. inspectors and the United States over access to suspected 
..::.H~m~~ International Studies {~ ·. ~~J Summer Researeh Grants 
' C)
I o ''f 
· v>lyv_g_ ?~ for Underaraduates 
-

Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
Up to $3,000 

FOR MORE INFORMATION, COME TO A MEETING ON 



Check out the 

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 1998 
5:00 P.M.


Observer Online 

DEBARTOLO I 20 
@ 

For further information, contact:
www.nd.edu/,...observer/ 

Professor Michael Francis 

Why? Because it's there. 

1-5203 (Hurley I 10) 
page 7 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 2, 1998 

TAVARES, 

Animal torture and m tions, teens drinking each oth­er's blood, a girl's parents blud­geoned to death and a corpse marked with occult markings> 
Sounds like stock elements a horror movie, but on MondttY jury selection Was set in the trial of the alleged ••••.·.·,•··H·u.'1uug of a vampire cult accused oF committing all of the above acts. 
Rod Ferrell. 17, could the death penalty if convicted charges of first degree murder. 
Ferrell is nervous, especially about whether it's possible to,. find jurors in this rural area', who have not heard about the lurid case. says his 1 William Lackay. 
"I think it's going to be · but not impossible," Lackay said of his chances for success. ·Richard Wl',tutnrt 
Important to the case is the%\:( ·· testimony of Heather Wendorf, · a 16-year-old cult devotee whose parents were beaten death in their home November 1996. 
That afternoon, Miss Wendorf and Ferrell performed a blood drinking ritual in a cemetery to induct, or "cross over," her as fellow vampire, according 
" ... an album that echoes the sound which won over fans in the beginning yet continues the band's musical evolu­tion." Emmett Malloy, (Accent-Jan. 29th) 
Pick up Pearl Jam's latest release at Orbit Music on February 3rd. 
Album goes on sale at midnight. 

We're open every Monday at Midnight for New Releases 

New CDs are $10.99 Cassettes are $7.99 
Hours: Moo: 1 Tues.-Sat.: 10:00am-10:00pm Sun: 11:00 am-8:00pm 
Located in the Campus Shoppes where Tracks used to be! 

Groundhog to check for shadow today 
Associated Press 
PUNXSUTAWNEY, Penn. 
Balmy weather in February made it seem like spring was not far off. But the final word on that was due to come Monday morn­ing when Punxsutawney Phil emerged from his lair. 
If Phil succeeds in not seeing his shadow at sunrise, then spring is right around the cor­ner. 
But the whiskered meteorolo­gist has seen no shadow just 12 
times in 111 years, leaving some locals to hope he'll lie if things turn out otherwise. 
"He can say he doesn't see his shadow," Marty Dunlap of Greenville said. "Or, it's six more weeks of winter." 
Records from the National Climactic Data Center in Asheville, N.C., show Phil's accu­racy rate since 1980 to be about 59 percent. 
But this could be a no-shadow year, since an average February day in Punxsutawney hovers around 26 degrees -about half of Sunday's balmy 50. 
Folks take the rotund critter seriously in Punxsutawney, 80 miles northeast of Pittsburgh. 

Store after store along the 6,800-population town's busi­ness district overflowed with shoppers Sunday. Even the town's chamber of commerce opened for retail, selling racks of clothes and trinkets. High school students hawked T-shirts on street corners. Cash registers rang up the sound of Phil-mania. 
"The town has capitalized on it," said Bill Fusco, president of 
Punxsutawney's Lion's Club. "If this wasn't the Sunday before Groundhog Day, you wouldn't see a car parked along here." 
Groundhog Day is rooted in a German superstition that if an animal casts a shadow on Feb. 2 -the Christian holiday of Candlemas -bad weather is coming. 
What German settlers started in Punxsutawney 112 years ago, the top-hatted members of the Groundhog Club's Inner Circle continue when they pull Phil from a custom-made burrow at Gobbler's Knob, a wooded hill south of town. For the rest of the year, Phil and his companion, Phyllis, live in luxury -a heated hutch at the town's library. 
J'o(itos :Pizzeria Restaurant 


PHONE: 243-5385 
DINE IN • DELIVERY • DRIVE THRU 4615 GRAPE ROAD NEXT TO LONE STAR STEAKHOUSE 
1 --------,1 r----------,
EVERYDAY I ?ltiYJtVA1f I 1STUJDENT §JPEClLALI I§TlJJDEI\IT §lPEClt\L 1 I PIZZA SLICE: $1.25 I I LARGE HAND-TOSSED I 
I PIZZA: $6.95 I
I TOPPINGS: 25¢ : 

I TOPPINGS: 50¢ I
L(~02~W_!T~ :.O~£N_O~L'!J J I (GOOD WITH COUPON ONLY) I 
I 7'U&SVA1f I 


r-----------,
1 ?11&7YJt&SVA1f 1 
:sTUDENT §PECJLAL: I§TlJJDENT §PECJIAL I 

I 25¢ HOT WINGS I 

:NY STYLE SICILIAN: 9.75:
I ANY 6" SUB WITH FRIES & I I SODA: $4.99 I 1 ONEFREETOP~NG! 1 L _ ,!;'O~D!''~ ~u!o!:!.o!L'2, _ J l _ ;:~D:rr,: ~~o:! o:!L~ _J I S'U1t'DA1f I
: 7?1'Uif!SVA1f : 

I§ThlDE~T §lPEClt\LI :sTtiDENT§PECL\L: 
I BUY ONE DISH AT REGULAR PRICE, I I CHICAGO STYLE ONE I
I GET THE SECOND AT HALF PRICE! I 

I ALL PASTA SERVED WITH SALAD I : TOPPING PAN PIZZA : AND BREADSTICKS! 
I $9~5 I
I (GOOD WITH COUPON ONLY) 

L -!::_0:! ::::.T~~p~ ~L~ -.J
L----------.JI 

~OBSERVER 
IIIIMiiliji~iiiMMi$1A\Ui!41iijiM*filltllil\iiMWi4111Qii-iMti4 
is now accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged to apply. 

Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encour­aged to apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding ofaccounting prin­ciples. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to 
Heather Cocks by 5 p.m., Tuesday, February 3, 1998. For additional infor­mation about the position, contact Business Manager Tom Roland at 631­5313, Managing Editors Jamie Heisler and Dan Cichalski at 631-4541 or 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast at 631-4542. Applicants are also encour­aged to stop by the office at 314 LaFortune with any questions. 
page 8 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 2, 1998 






Search continues for two divers lost on charter trip 
Associated Press alerted until more than 48 hours later. 
An air and sea search was called off 
BHISBANE, Australia Friday, but a team of police early Monday 
A buoyancy vest and wet suit found began searching the shore around Cowie Sunday on a beach in a crocodile-infested Beach after finding the vest and wet suit. area of eastern Australia The items were taken to has prompted a new police nearby Port Douglas and their search for two missing ownership may be determined
'THEIR LIVFS ARE GOING

American scuba divers. later Monday, the police
TO BE WRECKED ...,

Thn diving gear was spokesman said. found at Cowie Beach, MY HEART AND PRAYERS GO In San Diego, Mrs. about 40 miles north of Lonergan's father, John 
tho area where Thomas OUT TO THEM.' Hains, said the family thought Lonnrgan and his wife, searchers had made a "great Eileen, of Baton Houge, JOliN HAINS effort," and had no plans for La., were last seen, a DIVER's FATHER legal action against the dive 
police spokesman said on company. condition of anonymity. Hains said the people who 
The Lonergans were last seen entering ran the charter to the reef would carry on water from a dive boat on Jan. 25 off the burden of guilt and that was enough. Australia's Great Barrier Reef. The divers, "Their lives are going to be wrecked ... part of a group of 26 people, were not my heart and prayers go out to them," he immediately missed and police were not said. 
:>.. .. ·'<>:. •
ac1fic airplane declared missing 
on the southern island of Mindanao, 500 miles south of MANILA, Philippines Manila. :: A plane carrying 104 pas­In his last radio eall to the serlgmrs and crew from Manila Cagayan de Oro air control 
been declared missing tower, the pilot said he was at after failing to land in a south­an altitude of 11,500 feet and ern Philippine city, air trans­starting to descend, Garrido port officials said Monday. said. 
· The Cehu Pacific Air's 110-The pilot did not report any seater DC-9 aircraft was car­trouble with the plane and rying 99 passengers and five said his estimated arrival time crewmen when it failed to was 11:03 a.m. Moments arrive in the city of Cagayan later, the plane disappeared, de Oro, said the airline's gen­Garrido said. eral manager, Diego Garrido. The Philippine air force has 
The plane had taken off launched a seareh for it, he from Manila, the capital, said. aqout 9a.m. Monday, then Cebu Pacific is one of sever­landed at the central city of al new airlines established 'I'~eloban. Jt took off from after the Philippine govern· 
Tacloban at 10:20 a.m., head­ment deregulated the aviation ing for Cagayan de Oro, a city industry a few years ago. 




Iranian vice president denies statements 
Associated Press Ebtekar is participating in the World Israeli newspaper in nearly 20 years. Palestinian peace process that policy 
Economic Forum, a gathering of And her remarks would represent a was being reconsidered "in certain 
JEHUSALEM world political and business leaders. marked change in Iranian leaders' circles." 
Iranian Vice President Masoumeh The newspaper quoted Ebtekar as usual tone toward Israel. "We realized this is a very eomplex Ebtekar was quoted in an Israeli saying, "I support a dialogue At the same conference just the day and delicate problem, and we don't newspaper interview published between Israelis and Iranians, but it before, Iran's foreign minister ruled want to take a dogmatic position on Sunday as saying she supports some is still too early to discuss a dialogue out relations with Israel. it," she was quoted as saying. ller form of dialogue with people of the on a political level." "Since we do not recognize Israel, reported comments pointed to a fur­Jewish state. But Ebtekar said the remarks therefore I cannot recognize there ther moderation of positions by the 
But Iran's official news agency attributed to her were"pure would be any opening toward Israel," Iranian government in the wake of reported that Masoumeh Ebtekar fabrications," the Islamic Hepublic Foreign Minister Kamal Kharrazi President Khatami's call for deniod the interview took place. News Agency said in a dispatch from said Saturday. improved relations between 
The Israeli newspaper, Yediot Davos. Ebteka reportedly said in the news­Americans and Iranians. Ahronot, said the interview was con­The interview would be the first an paper interview that even though ducted in Davos, Switzerland, where Iranian leader has given to an Iran officially rejects the Israeli-

is now accepting applications for the 
1997-98 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Heather Cocks by Monday, Feb. 9, at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR Applicants should have news reponing, writing and editing skills. The News Editor man­ages a staff of editors and reporters, generates story and series ideas and is responsible for the content of the news section each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicants should have editorial, writing and editing skills and an ability to deal with the public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layout editors and columnists and decides what letters will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicants should have sporrs reporting, writing and editing skills. The Sports Editor manages a staff ofeditors and reporters, generates story ideas and special sections, arranges travel accommodations for reporting trips and is responsible for the content of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicants should have features writing and editing experience. The Accent Editor man­ages editors, reporters and columnists, generates story ideas, and is responsible for the content of the Accent pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicants should have photography and developing experience. The Photo Editor man­ages a staff of photographers and lab technicians and must work closely with News, Sports and Accent department editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARYS EDITOR Any full-rime undergraduate student at Saint Mary's is encouraged to apply. The editor manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinates coverage with Notre Dame staff, generates story ideas on the Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for the Observer office at Saint Mary's. 
ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors with management and sales skills. The Advertising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of account executives and is responsible for gen­erating advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh experience and knowledge of QuarkXpress, Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager oversees a staff of designers, works closely with advertising and marketing departments and is responsible for the design and layout ofadvertisements. 
PRODUCTION MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design, layout and newspaper production experience. The Production Manager over­sees a staff of night production designers and works closely with departmeht staff on lay­out and design. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge ofcomputer networking. The Systems Manager maintains and updates the Macintosh network and printers and is responsible for training the entire Observer staff on the use of the system. 
CONTROLLER Applicant must be a junior accounting major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Controller is responsible for preparing The Observer's operating budget and taxes, accounts payable, cost-tracking and other transaction duties. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicant must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web site. The Web Administrator is responsible for working with the editorial departments of The Observer in order to update and archive the content of the site each day. The Web Administrator also must be able to expand the capabilities of the sire. 



VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 2, 1998 page 9 
THE OBSERVER WUJJI\lChi~ib~re-
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor............................Heather Cock< Advertising Manager..............................Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.....................jennifer Breslow Sports Editor... .. .. ............ Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ..................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du L1c and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies ofthe administration ofeither 
instilUtion. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent 
the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Editor, Viewpoim Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saim Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate 
News Editor. Commemaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and not neces­sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Ediror-in-Chief  6.~ 1-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  63!-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

IU\1 ~ TODAY CHEF CASTR:> WILL ~ ~ S~W US HoW TO NAKJ;. ~IS S:RUMPTIOUS ~ "'Pb.OPLE'S l=LA.N"-USlNG ONLY ONIONS POWD6R£0 MILK)RUSSIAN VODKA AND ' Tl-\IS CHARMING AIR ~lLTER COVER FROM A '52 CHE.W ..• DAN? 
MarthaStewart 
• GuEsT CoLUMN 

Keep Clinton Affair Behind Closed Doors 
M
aybe it turns out the people are somewhat intelligent after all. Despite all the allegations thrown at President Clinton since he entered the national spotlight in 1992, he managed to come up with the highest approval rating of his presidency in the 

Dan Cichalski 
vicinity of 70 percent by the end of last week. 
So it appmtrs that the majority of those polled realized that what Clinton said in his State of the Union message a week ago actually represents this country's standing, more so than the private life of our leader. 
If Clinton did lie about an alleged affair with a former White House intern, and if he did tell others to as well, then that is a problem and a violation of the law. Consequently, he will have to be dealt with regarding those matters. But that would be the only crime here. 
According to statistics found on the Internet last week. 50 to 60 percent of married couples have admitted to hav­ing an affair. Perhaps one reason the people still support the President is that they can finally relate to him. Sex, in one way or another, is on everyone's mind. All you have to do these days is turn on the television, watch a movie, or read the newspapers. 
But underneath it all, Clinton has been a good president. None of these scan­dals, save the issue of campaign financ­ing which involves nearly everyone with an address in Washington D.C., deals with his job. Anything that happened with Whitewater and Paula Jones occurred before Clinton moved to Pennsylvania Avenue. 
Some may say that such a morally reprehensible man is not fit to lead the country. But people forget that there are a lot of people who are able to leave their personal lives out of their profes­sional ones. Clinton may be such a per­son. 
In six years, the Clinton presidency has brought a balanced budget, a strong economy, a lower deficit and a smaller government. Unfortunately, he may be remembered for what brought him down rather than the good he did. Slick Willy may be remembered in the same way as Tricky Dick. 
What Bob Woodward and Carl Bernstein did with Watergate in The Washington Post in the 1970s has gen­erally been seen as a great thing for journalism. But the problem now is that any scandal involving the president gets the suffix of "gate." A letter to The Observer last week mentioned the French press dubbing this latest scandal "Fornigate." In doing so, the press does one of two things: It lessens the impor­tance of Watergate, or raises the per­ception of the importance of this latest sex scandal to a level at which it does not belong. 
In The South Bend Tribune Wednesday, Notre Dame's American studies chairman Robert Schmuhl points out the distinction. "What is different in this case," he said, "is that really what we're talking about are private matters, and, in many cases, intimate matters. With Watergate, the transgressions were political and governmental." 
If Clinton did have some kind of rela­tionship with a former White House intern, it was not to gain some sort of political advantage, but merely for some kind of recreation or satisfaction, as sick as that may be. Richard Nixon abused his authority as president to cover up a break-in he had knowledge of before­hand. Clinton may have used his posi­tion to cover up a possible affair, but that is the only offense. 
To say that Clinton used the presiden­cy "to woo interns," as Kevin Patrick did in an Observer column last week, is wrong. Clinton has done nothing close to that. In fact, based on material in Newsweek, Monica Lewinsky may have used her internship to try to get close to the president. 
Lewinsky was 21 years old at the time of the alleged liaison, certainly of legal age and able to make her own decisions. Patrick tried to exaggerate the reproachable nature of the situation by following the phrase "affair with a then 21-year-old intern" with the exclama­tion, "He has a daughter who is only 19!" Chelsea may be 19 now, but Monica is 24. At the time, Chelsea was 16. Many of us see a huge difference in ourselves at 16 and 21. No doubt our parents see a bigger difference. Chelsea's age really has nothing to do with it, considering today's society in which people marry others generations younger. That point is weak. 
Also in the column, Patrick attempts to belittle Clinton by attacking the President's statements like, "I just want to get back to doing the work of the American people." The reality is that this scandal is distracting everyone from what the president is supposed to do. CNN made a comment the day after the State of the Union along the lines of Clinton using the address to "distract" the country from the allegations. This is backwards. The State of the Union mes­sage is the news, the president's job. The president presenting the message in the form of a speech before Congress is an 80-year-old tradition. These allega­tions regarding Clinton and Lewinsky are the distraction. 
Finally, Patrick closes his column say­ing that in the end, "all the magic in the world will not have been able to deter your attention from the fact that this was a 21-year-old intern; they had sex; Clinton lied about it, and then tried to influence others to lie as well. Those are the facts, and they are undisputed." Well, so far they are not the facts, other than that Lewinsky was once a 21-year­old intern. At least they are not the facts that the public knows from the media reports. And they are disputed; if they weren't, it wouldn't be a scandal, it would be an open-and-closed case. 
If it turns out that Clinton did lie and encourage Lewinsky to do the same, then he should be punished according to the law, and Congress should pursue articles of impeachment. But until the facts show this is the case, Clinton should be left to do his job when he's not answering questions. 1voted for him in 1996, the first election after my 18th birthday, and I would have voted for him in 1992. And I would again, if he could run again. His resume is impres­sive enough. 
It is difficult to know how this will play itself out, or how the media will play it out. In Saturday's papers, even Lewinsky's attorney doubted the credi­bility and truth of all his client's state­ments. And Lewinsky's "friend," Linda Tripp, the one who brought out the tapes of conversations supposedly about the president (though it is not known if his name is mentioned), has now volun­tarily entered the spotlight for her time on television. 
It looks as though those who want to bring down the President can't do so based on his presidential record, so they must look behind his closed doors to bring out a scandal. If it's not true, then the American press and the people should be ashamed for devoting so much time and interest to a smear campaign. 
Dan Cichalski is a senior American studies major. He is the assistant man­aging editor at The Observer. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• IJOONESBURY 

• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
"It has been my experi­
ence that folks who have no vices have very few virtues." 
-Abraham Lincoln 



'Desperate Measures' cGmeS up short 
would perhaps make the film. ing donated his Keaton plays Peter McCabe, a bone marrow, lit­
Desperate Measures 
brutal murderer with an IQ erally fleeing from well above average. A great the operating
Directed by Barbet Schroeder 
many parallels can be drawn table. The majority between McCabe and the of the l'ilm relies 
Starring Michael Keaton and Andy Garcia 
character of Hannibal Lector, heavily on the played by Anthony Hopkins, in aetual chase, Peter 
• 

"Silence of the Lambs." always one step
~ll ~ll 

Another chapter in America's ahead of Frank fascination with the criminal and the rest of the 
(out of five shamrocks) 

mind. Keaton's performance police foree. This pales in comparison to the creates another Academy Award winning role predictable By CHRISTIAN PIERCE by Hopkins. Andy Garcia plays Frank moment because Accenr Movie Critic Connor, a cop and father dedicated to find­the marrow must ing a bone marrow donor for his dying son be extracted from 
D 
nsperate mnasures, let me tell you Matt (Joseph Cross). Frank searches high a living human about "Dnspnrate Measures." When and low for a donor only to find that the being. The other one contemplates slitting one's own one compatible person in the San • ~ohce offiee~s con-Police detective Frank Connor (Andy Garcia, left) finds a compatiblewrists to eliminate the pain of enduring Francisco area lies wasting away in prison tMmCuablly ftire .at bone marrow donor for his son in Peter McCabe (Michael Keaton), a
another moment of a film, those are des­due to wrongs committed against his fellow c a e no carmg . . 
whethe~ they cap-dangerous multtple murderer 1n "Desperate Measures." 
perate measurns. This newest project by man. Frank confronts Peter in the hope of director Barbet Schroeder ("Heversal of persuading McCabe to donate his marrow ture him dead or where he asks many questions about life Portune," "Single White remain"), brought in order to save Matt's life. Peter of course alive. This scenario forces Frank to proteet while he faees death. The film c:ould have me to tears. Not due to a touching story, shrugs ofT the suggestion and takes enjoy­the convict, even to the point of becoming a beeome an intriguing story had the dircc­the film is just that terrible. Starring ment in the possibility of killing a cop's son human shield. tor developed the plot and c:haracters fur-Mkhael Keaton and Andy Garcia, the film without having to lift a finger. "After all The film includes a few supporting cast ther, but unfortunately this film revolves li>llows thn nxtrernely predictable format of these years of being locked up, I'm given members, all of whom are developed poor-around little more than the chase -a a prison escape by a master criminal and the opportunity to kill again." Eventually ly and seem more of a distraction than tragedy with sueh a credible cast and a the dedicated cop that hunts him down. rethinking the idea, McCabe sees donor­contributing characters. Matt's doctor, direetor who has eonstructed better films Gee, that plot does not sound familiar to ship as an avenue to possible escape. One Samantha Hawkins played by Marcia Gay in the past. anyone nlse, dons it? The one twist in the of the film's amusing quirks involves the Harden, arrives in the film twice only to Well, if you can't toll by now 1do not me­film involves the setting, a prison hospital escape itself. McCabe has a history of become MeCabe's hostage on both oeca-ommend seeing this film. The aetion where a young leukemia patient awaits escape attempts and the police take mea­sions. Brian Cox also appears in a menial scenes arn sparse and in no way make up bone marrow to be donated by Keaton's sures to prevent another, yet he still man­role as Jeremiah Cassidy, Frank's corn-for the weak story. Director Barbet character. I ean just see the writer taking ages to !lee his enclosure. Roger Ebert manding offieer. He arrives merely as Schroeder has worked on more notewor­his project to the produeers. "All right I've wrote of this scene, "How does he get out Prank's opposition on the force, more con-thy films in the p<L<;t and needs to return to got an idea for a film. It's kind of 'Silence of of the handculls'? I low does he ward ofT the eerned with eliminating the threat of his previous style of film making to the Lambs' meel-; 'Eft"' cll'ects of anesthesia'? It's all here. It's not McCabe on the loose than saving a young appease this reviewer. If you must see this 
With a mcent rnvival in his career, I had convincing, but it is here." boy's life. The one shining light in this film film I ask only one thing, for God's sakes hopnd tlw pnrli>rmane1~ by Michael Keaton Prndictably McCabe escapes, before hav-sees Matt, played by Joseph Cross, in a role save your money and wait for video. 



Expect to be disappointed 

the coolest young actors out there, as he proved withBy JOHN BARRY 
the amazing "Before Sunrise" and "Dead Poet's 
Accent Movie Critic 
Society." It's hard to tell if Gwyneth Paltrow is a good actress or not, because her eharacter was so painfullyWhen llollywood remakes Cliffs Notes into a motion two dimensional that there was no where to go with it.
picture, it is often a disaster. They'll change charac­Robert DeNiro, in a big, big change in style for him,ters' names. actions, and intentions -they'll change does a good job of playing a crazy bad guy. (That wasthe setting of the story, the theme, and the plot. If sarcasm. Bobby DeNiro is an old pro at it.)
Hollywood was feeling frisky, they could claim that THEME #1: ARTISTS SKETCIIING NAKED WOMEN:".Jurassic Park" was really based on "Catcher in the Yes, this theme is continued in "Great Expectations."
Hyo," and not that Michael Crichton novel that it was It's a really interesting fad in Hollywood now to makerumored to have been derived from. The previews movies about guys inspired to draw beeause of naked claim that this film is "loosoly based on the Charles women. This is a good trend and I think we shouldDickens' classic novel, 'Great Expectations."' And by encourage it. However, the artwork in this lilrn isn't up"loosely" they mean "not at all." 
photo courtesy Twentieth Century Fox to par with other film's sketches. The drawings of
But hey, let's face it, maybe Hollywood's decision to 
Ethan Hawke and Gwyneth Paltrow star in the loosely 
Gwyneth are definitely so-so at best, although some ofnot follow the Cliffs Notes too closely is a good idea. I adapted "Great Expectations." 
the drawings made by Finn are interesting. Leonardo'shadn't read "Great Expectations" before seeing the dreams as an artist. Finn seems to have it all -drawing of Kate Winslet, (really done by directormovie, so I didn't have any standard to eompare it to. 
money, soda! status, fame, a successful career, and a James Cameron) in "Titanie" was a lot better.
As a movie critic, I am a respected journalist (Ha ha!), 
reunion with Estella. However, neither film has eome dose to the inercdibleand so I did some thorough researeh before starting to But of eourse the story ean't end there because oth­ones made by Greg Kinnear's character in "As Good Aswrite this article: I stood in the bookstore and read the erwise "Great Expectations" would be too thin of a It Gets." The drawing of Helen Hunt is just many times"Brief Summary" for "Great Expectations." I shall now novel and then no English teacher would force her stu­superior to the artwork in this film. 
list the similarities between the book and the film: dents to read it and Chuck Dickens wouldn't have THEME #2: "EVERYTHING'S BETTER WilEN WET":1. They're both about a guy's passage into manhood, made as much money. So, more stuff happens. Estella This, you may reeognize, is a line sung by Steve Miller.
whieh apparently is only achievable by falling in love gets married, our escaped prisoner pops back up, as Apparently the direetor agrees with Steve on this one,with a snob. 
does Finn's uncle, and blah blah blah. The movie does because every time that Finn and Estella kiss, they're2. They're both called "Great Expectations." 
a good job of ignoring the more interesting sub plots of both wet. Their first kiss, as children, at a drinkingI hate plot summary as much as you do, so I promise Pinn and the prisoner and the relationship between fountain, was an entertaining scene. I found it reallyto keep this brief. Here's the gist of the story: the nar­Finn and his uncle. Instead, the movie is basically a funny, I think my friends found it romantic. You canrator, Finn. tells the story "as I remember it, not as it cool music video that lasts too long. definitely expect MTV to nominate them for the "Bestreally happened." In other words, it's all a big lie, but So why does Finn let Estella treat him like such fecal Kiss" category.
not a very creative lie. Anyway, Finn is foreed as a boy material? She teases him and just takes off without SHOULD YOU GO SEE IT'!: Sure, why not. It's yourto aid an escaped prisoner (Hobert DeNiro) who is later saying good-bye on more then one occasion. If Estella six bucks this time, not mine. You might like it if you're recaptured. No doubt Cliff would point out symbolism had been standing in the lobby after the movie, the willing to go see an expensive and long version of ain this. Then, for no partieular reason whatsoever, the entire theatre erowd would have beaten the bejeezus music video (see also "Spiceworld"), or i!' you really
riehest and craziest loon in the gulf, Ms. Nora 
out of her for being such a certain-word-that-rhyrnes­don't mind seeing nice guys treated like toxic waste byOinsrnoor, summons the impoverished Finn to visit her with-"ditch." To address this issue, I have brain-beautiful and deathly women. 
Great Expectations 
Directed by Alfonso Cuaron Starring Ethan Hawke, Gwyneth Paltrow, Hank Azaria, and Robert DeNiro 
. . . ) 
-.;.~l) ~'S.l 
{out of five shamrocks) 

every Saturday, and it is at her mansion that Finn is stormed an exhaustive list of Estella's redeeming qual­smitten by the adorable, and sickeningly snobbish ities: Estella. 1. Estella is played by Gwyneth Paltrow 
So, in the tradition of great Greek tragedies, Pinn Hmm. Yup, that's it. I admit, that's a really, really ignores this wise advice and falls in love. But the story good quality. But it's not enough of a plot element to really gets rolling when a rich lawyer shows up one drive an entire movie, and that's exaetly what this film day and tells Finn that a mysterious benefaetor has tries to do. provided for Finn to go to New York to pursue his OVERALL: This movie is irritating. You'll hate Estella 
for being such a snob, and you'll definatnly want to smack Pinn in the back of the head to try and knoek some sense into him. I think that if Finn had gotten out more as a teenager, this whole unfortunate story eould have been avoided. 
ACTING: The aeting was fine~. Ethan Hawke is one of 
-~--~ ----~----------------~--~­
• VIDEO PICK Of THE WEEK 

By MIKE MCMORROW 
Accent Movie Critic 
' T 
he Ref" is the kind of movie that depends completely on the ability of the performers to get the tim­ing right. And its success is based on Dennis Leary, Kevin Spacey, and Judy Davis' ability to do just that. The film stars Spacey and Davis as a rich couple who have inherited a big house and a lot of' money, and to say the least are having marital problems. Neither of them can say a thing without the other jumping all over it. Dennis Leary plays a jewel thief who attempts to rob a rich jewel collec­tor's assortment, but is eaught due to an ingenious safety mechanism. So to put the cards back on his table. Leary, in the midst of trying to escape, takes a couple ransom, who happens to be Spacey and Davis ­lucky for him. The remainder of the film basically consists of an exchange between the three eharacters, including an uproari­
ous scene where some of the other family members come over for dinner. 
"The Ref" plays like smart situational com­edy, and that's all it strives to be. Dennis Leary, notorious for his scathing stand-up comedy, is effective as an impatient and abra­sive jewel thief; the last thing he wants to do is listen to this rich couple banter at each 
other. The build-up through some of these scenes has an uncanny energy that couldn't be matched, in the same way, by any other actors working. 
Some of the supporting characters could have more originality. to give the film more comic depth. The character of the mother of Spacey is so stereotypically rich that she doesn't have anything to comically distinguish her. So the strength of the film lies exclusively in the three central charac­ters. 
l couldn't help thinking, though, through "The Ref," how utterly depressing all three of these characters' lives were. I suppose if one were forced to look through the come­dy and find the seriousness that is perhaps intended behind it, we would be left with some word of commentary about the banality of the lives of the rich. But I didn't think that "The Ref" worked on such a level, and that's fine. But as a smart sit­com, it is entertaining for 97 minutes. 
Hey 'Days of Our Lives' Fans! 
Are you an avid "Days" watcher? Wanna share your observations and 
thoughts about Salem's finest and most fiendish with the rest of cam­
pus? Write for The Observer! We're looking for a crackerjack "Days of 
Our Lives" correspondent to bring fellow "Days" fans at Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary's College all the week's news and your expert opinions 
and insights. 
Interested? 
Contact Joey at 631-4540 today! 
too). and he asks her to but:s~iea:rs her to secrecy: .Emily. 
•asks Em to check sentence. She 

agree fsi~eiJiet~ stiJiR:estst:ast,eful. p(lrno, plane goes ne soiontwrns up,with a
. 


I. Titanic 
2. 
Great Expectations 

3. 
Good Will Hunting 

4. 
Spice World 

5. 
As Good As It Gets 

6. 
Desperate Measures 

7. 
Wag the Dog 

8. 
Deep Rising 

9. 
Fallen I 0. Hard Rain 


Source: AP 
I. Face/Off 

2. 
Contact 

3. 
Con Air 


4. 
Conspiracy Theory 

5. 
My Best Friend's Wedding 

6. 
Spawn 


7. 
Chasing Amy 

8. 
Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery 

9. 
Men In Black 

10. 
Soul Food 


Source: Billboard Online 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 2, 1998 
•NBA 




East-West showdown turns into Laker rout of Bulls 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Floor Hockey and Soccer Officials Needed 
NOTICES 

Great Pay! I If you are interested HEYII It's not to early to place a please contact John in Rec VALENTINE in the classified ads Sports at 1·6100. 
loLryoousrsTweet&ieanFd/OoraufrieNndiD I I I 
: . . FOR RENT .
l 

4 or 5 bedrm furnished house, wid, LOST: GOLD DOLFIN BRACELET sand volleyball, 119 N. St. Peter, if found plese call 233-9947 X 0849 ROOM4Rent $128+util Share house w/ grad stu Good neighborhd 280-5274 
WANTED 

Need roommate. Close to campus. IF YOU"RE THE BEST OJ AT ND $325/mo. 243·0491. THEN THE IRISH CONNECTION WANTS YOU! SPIN AT NO'S ALL SIZE HOMES BEST NEW NIGHTCLUB. NEED CLOSE TO CAMPUS NOT BE 21. CALL MATI@ 233· 232-2595 8505 FOR INFO. 
MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO 
SHARE 2·BDRM HOME. INC. COMPUTER HELP WASHER/DRYER, PHONE, Set up IBM software. Knowledge of SATELITE TV. Filemaker 3.0, Lotus SmartSuite, 219-289·1357. Zip backup and scanning. Good pay. Call Ron 273-1717. CUTE 1-BDRM APT. $380 
273·3996 ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT · Fishing industry. Excellent earn­Nice 4 bdrm for next school year. ings & benefits potential. Newly remodeled. off-street pkg. Male/Female. No experience nee· $600/mo + utilities & dep. essary. Ask us how! 517·324·3116 Close to school. ext. A55841 233·9805 
FOR SALE 
Beautiful Brass bed. queen size, with orthopedic Mattress set and 
frame. New, never used. still in plastic. $225219-862-2082 
I TlCKETS 
WANTED-NO vs MIAMI B-Ball tix on 2122. Lower arena. 258·1111 
PERSONAL 
Alan· Friday night was great, we'll have to do it again sometime! 
-Melissa 
Wafflehead is so on the move ... 
don antonio ­How I miss you! I think it's time to tell the world our secret.... forever yours, colleen 
Joe D. Dance boy dance! 
Valaida Wynn is the REAL snow queen 
Kara, I know this doesn't top the 'Titanic' picture, but hey, what could? 
Just wanted to say thanks to the mystery moo-er -Nate 
whathappenedtotheweekend??? 
photo joe is a truant and likes nude yoga 
colleen-how can you be missing me when I am always waiting for you! you had a dance and never even asked. I am always amazed that you find new and inventive ways to shatter my already fragile heart. sadly butloyaly yours, -don antonio 
And nobody knows what it's really like but everyone thinks it's great. 
In 1844 the democrats were split. 
Three nominess for the presidential candidate wereMartin Van Buren, James Buchan, Lewis Cass. From Nashville came a dark horse riding up; he was James K. Polk, Napoleon of the stump. 
lvonne, Becky & Kate, we really need to get together more often. 
Transparency heart-on? Reminds me of bad jeans. S-cor is my hero. 
Votruba 

lvonne-The alternative intellect will rise again ... 
Larry Hughes overrated? I think not!! !II 
No, John, it's NOT all about the benjamins!! 
You heard it here first, folks. Billikens to the Final Four ... 
How come you drive in a parkway and park in a driveway? 
And now, it's time for the Observer timeline. All three events happened during this, the first week of Februrary. Can you name the year? 
1) A road was built. 

2) Goods were exchanged at a marketplace. 
3) The Roman Empire expanded its borders. 
Was it 67, 66, or 65 BC? The answer will be shown later in these classifieds. 
Spoonballl Catch the fever! 
Look to the Observer for all your Olympic coverage. 
Today is Groundhog Day. but because of El Nino, that ground­hog's gonna be all messed up. 
It's time for another quote from the great Canadian philosopher Alanis Morissette: Isn't it ironic, don't you think? A little TOO ironic? Yes. I really do think. 
Alanis Morrissette was quite possi· bly the worst thing to come out of Canada. (That includes arctic winds.) 
Observer prints what they want you to read. Oh yeah. 
All the vegans in the house. the vegans, the vegans. 
Brad Prendergast was bitten by a radioactive editor giving him the superhuman ability of being able to pick out every tiny mistake in a page. The evil Brad has been tor­turing production assistants since. 
1 need a ticket to the Ben Folds Five show in Chicago on Feb. 15. If you know of where I can get one call 634·3255 and ask for Mark. 
Hey look over there ... Made you look. 

The answer to our Observer time­line: C. 
Associated Press 

INGLEWOOD. Calif. 
The Los Angeles Lakers gave back exactly what tlwy received from thn Chicago Bulls six weeks earlier, turning Sunday's East-West showdown into a marquee mismatch. 
The Lukers, blown out at Chicago in mid-December, brokn the game open early in the third quarter and toyed with the defending champions the rest of the way as they defeated the Bulls 112-87. 
It was the final game of the regular snason between the teams. and thn Lakcrs made up for their most lopsided loss of the snason -a 21-point defeat on Chicago's horne court on Dec. 17. 
Hick Fox played his second straight outstanding game and led Los Angeles with 25 points, Shaquille O'Neal added 24 and Eddie .Jones 20. 
Kobe Bryant. at 19 the youngest All-Star in NBA histo­ry. didn't gPt the better of his much-hyped matchup with Michael .Jordan but still fin­ished with 20 points to give the Laknrs four 20-point scorers for th1~ second consecutive game. 
Jordan !)Cored 31 points and burned Bryant on more than a move or two, but the youngster had the last laugh late in the game when he made a pair of fancy scoop layups and a cor­nnr jumper in Scot tin Pippen's face that made it 107-80 with 
3:24 left. 

Thn only question thereafter was whether the Bulls would avoid their most lopsided defeat of the season -27 points at Miami on .Jan. 7. Chicago ended up two points shy of tying that mark. 
Los Angeles led 57-53 at half­time after Bryant and Pippen matched 3-pointers in the final minute. 
Fans returning late from intermission then missed the game's crucial sequence. O'Neal scored on a layup. Derek Fisher scored on a fast break, Fox had a 3-pointer and a three-point play and Jones sank a 3-pointer to cap a quick 15-0 run that made it 72-53 with 9:39 left in the third. 
The lead grew to 91-64 at the end of the quarter. and the Bulls never mounted a corne­bar.k in the fourth. 
Scott Burrell scored a season­high 15 points for Chicago, and Scottie Pippen had 13. Dennis Hodrnan grabbed 15 rebounds, ending his streak of 20 or more at three games. 
Chicago had its five-game road winning streak snapped. 
Corie Blount, who started in place of Hobert Horry (strained abdominal musde), had a sea­son-high 12 rebounds. Fisher, who replaced Nick Van Exel at point guard for the second con­secutive game. had eight points, seven assists and three stitches -the latter after being hit by Burrell's elbow late in the second quarter. 
New York 89, Miami S:l 

Larry Johnson scored a sea­son-high 35 points and the New York Knicks won the latest installment oftheir intense rivalry with Miami, beating the Heat 89-83 Sunday. Johnson. ejected from New York's previ­ous game, scored nine straight points early in the fourth quar­ter as the Knicks stopped a three-game losing streak. 
The Knicks-Heat rivalry has become one of the fiercest in the NBA, and Sunday's game was no exception. with fero­cious defense and a scuffle. 
Allan Houston added 20 points for New York, which made 23 of 26 free throws, ineluding 10 in a row during the closing minutes. Even Chris Dudley, one of the worst free­throw shooters by percentage in NBA history, made both his attempts, banking in his second attempt with 51 seconds left. 
Alonzo Mourning and Jamal Mashburn had 22 points apiece to lead the Heat. Tim Hardaway added 17 points on 4-for-14 shooting before fouling out in the final minute. 
With the score tied 68-68, Johnson converted a three­point play, then drilled a 3­pointer from the right wing ­only his ninth 3 of the season­giving the Knicks a 74-69 lead. Following a steal by Charles Oakley, Johnson scored while being grabbed by Hardaway on 
the break and made the free 
throw, putting New York up by 
eight. 

Hardaway scored six straight points before Mourning's layup tied it 77-77 with 3:42 left. 
Chris Childs' basket with 3:25 remaining gave New York the lead for good. and the Knicks put the game away at the line. 
When the teams met last week for the first time since last year's heated playoff series, Childs sustained a con­cussion after accidentally get­ting kneed in the head. 
There were no other physical confrontations in that game, but tempers flared in the sec­ond quarter Sunday when Mourning hit Johnson on a drive to the basket. Johnson responded with a two-hand shove to Mourning's chest as players from both teams grabbed jerseys and trash­talked in front of New York's bench. But unlike Game 5 of the second-round series last year when several Knicks were suspended for rushing onto the floor to aid Charlie Ward, who had been body slammed by Miami's P.J. Brown. no New York players moved from the bench. However, Brown, who was waiting at the scorer's table to check in, walked onto the floor. 
Mourning. Johnson, Oakley and Miami's Isaac Austin were each assessed technicals and the half ended without any other incidents. 
Bucks 118, Timberwolves 110 

Glenn Hobinson scored 29 points and Terrell Brandon had 22 points and 12 assists as the Milwaukee Bucks erased a 17­point deficit with strong sec­ond-half shooting Sunday to beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 118-110. 
Hay Allen added 17 points for the Bucks, who extended their winning streak to five games, their longest since they won eight straight in 1990-91. 
The Bucks shot 26-for-37 (.702) from the field in the sec­ond half, in which they outscored Minnesota 71-50. 
Kevin Garnett had 26 points, 12 rebounds and seven assists for the Wolves, who played 

KAT Photo 
Michael Jordan's game-high 31 points were not enough to prevent a 
112-87 loss to the Lakers on Sunday. without starters Tom Gugliotta hit on the head. and Chris Carr. Terry Porter Minnesota led by as many as had 22 points off the bench for 17 points in the final minute of Minnesota, which saw its team-the first half, but the Bucks record five-game home winning erased that deficit in the first streak end. nine minutes of the third quar-
The lead changed hands 10 ter. times in a five-minute span of Brandon scored four points in the fourth quarter before a an 8-0 run to get the Bucks three-point play by Hobinson within 65-64. Hicky Pierce gave the Bucks a 104-100 lead came off the bench and scored with 2:33 to play. nine straight points, capped by 
Minnesota's best chance cam a three-point play, to put with 1:11 to play, when Armon Milwaukee in front 74-73 with Gilliam was called for a fla-3:21 left in the quarter. The grant foul on Stephan Marbury Bucks went into the fourth with the Bucks leading 108-period leading 82-81. 
104. But Marbury missed one Porter had a perfect first half of the free throws. then missed off the bench for the Wolves. a 3-pointer, allowing the Bucks making all five of his field to keep control of the game. goals, including a pair of 3­
Brandon sat on the bench the pointers, while getting 14 final 48 seconds after getting points and four assists. 

Monday, February 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
New Mexico hands Utes their first loss of the season 
Associated Press  through, but the officials ruled  He hit 6 of 7 3-pointers, includ­ Florida  (11-7,  4-4  Kentucky got no closer than  
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. Royce Olney hit a 3-pointer with 4.6 seconds left, capping No. 14 New Mexico's late rally  the ball had not left his hands when the clock expired. New Mexico (16-3, 6-1 Western Athletic Conference) overcame a 73-67 deficit in the  ing his game-winner from 21 feet. For most of the game, it appeared the Utes, the last team to beat New Mexico in  Southeastern Conference) snapped a 10-game losing streak to Kentucky and won in Rupp Arena for the first time since Feb.12, 1989.  82-7 5 on Mills' 3-pointer with 1:20 to go. Florida went with­out a field goal in the final 5:30 but made 12-of-18 free throws down the stretch.  
and sending No. 3 Utah to its  final 1:27. The Lobos extended  Albuquerque, would end the  Kentucky (19-3, 8-1), which  Dan Williams finished with 12  
first loss of the season, 77-7 4  their home winning streak to  Lobos' winning streak that  leads the series 72-21, also had  points, Eddie Shannon had 11  
Sunday. Utah. the nation's last remaining unbeaten major col­lege team, had one final chance to force overtime. Drew Hansen's 3-pointer swished  38 games, second in the nation to Kansas' 57 in a row. Utah (18-1, 6-1) had its school-record winning streak ended at 18. Olney finished with 22 points.  dates back to Jan. 27. 1996. Led by the brilliant shooting and court leadership of point guard Andre Miller, the Utes opened up a 42-29 lead on Michael Doleac's short hook  a nine-game winning streak come to an end. Not only did Florida shoot a season-high 57 percent (12-of­21) from 3-point range, the Gators also beat Kentucky at its  and Stolt 10 for Florida, which shot 50 percent (27 -of-54} from the field. Scott Padgett had 10 points for Kentucky, which made 43 percent (27 -of-63} of its shots.  
early in the second half.  strength in taking  a  40-30  The Wildcats made 12-of-32  
Miller, who hit 10 of 12 shots,  advantage in rebounds despite  shots from 3-point range.  
scored 24 points. Time and again he kept the Utes in front, giving Utah a 73-67 lead with  foul trouble by big men Damen Maddox and Greg Stolt. Williams, who made his first  No. 20 Syracuse 84, Pittsburgh 73  
Reminder!  1:27 left with two free throws. But by then, New Mexico's strategy to go to a full court  seven shots, finished with 8-of­1 0 shooting from the field. He hit 4-for-5 of his 3-point  Todd Burgan scored seven of his 27 points in a 16-0 run at the start of the second half to  
press in the final minutes had  attempts and handed out four  carry No. 20 Syracuse to an 84­ 
started to take its toll on the  assists.  Weaks  hit  7-of-14  73 victory over Pittsburgh on  
I o a\\ those running  Utes and their lead. Olney hit two free throws to  shots. Kentucky's Cameron Mills  Sunday. Syracuse (17 -4, 7-3 Big East}  
for  cut the deficit to 73-69, then stole the ball from Miller on the  also turned in a scintillating shooting performance, hitting  led 29-28 at halftime. The Orangemen took advantage of  
5tudent Government President or Vice President  ensuing inbounds pass. Instead of going in for a layup, Olney backed up behind the 3-point line and from the baseline with 1:03 remaining. Two free throws by Kenny  8-of-14 shots from beyond the 3-point arc in finishing with a career-high 31 points. Florida trailed only once in the game, 2-0 after Kentucky's Nazr Mohammed's dunk to  Pittsburgh turnovers on four consecutive possessions and scored 16 consecutive points in the first 3:55 of the second half to take a 45-28 lead. Jason Hart scored six of his 12 points  
Thomas with 22 seconds left  start the game.  in the same stretch.  
Petitions are due in the5tudent Government Office  <1  gave New Mexico a 74-73 lead -its first of the day. New Mexico then fouled Utah forward Alex Jensen with 14 seconds left. With an standing­room only crowd of 18,018 pro­ After that, Williams hit five straight shots, including three 3-pointers, as Florida went up 31-16 with 7:44 remaining in the half. Kentucky battled back behind  The inexperienced Panthers were unable to handle Syracuse's man-to-man defense at the start of the second half, which forced the turnovers and poor shot selection.  
by 500 p.rn.fODAY!!!  viding a deafening roar, Jensen missed the first free throw, but made the second for the tie.  Mills' 14 points to trail 40-34 at the half but the Gators played with poise in the final 20 min­ Pittsburgh (7 -9, 2-7} didn't get its first points of the second half until Atilla Cosby made a  
Olney then took over. drib­ utes to turn back all challenges  layup 4:18 into the half. The  
bled past midcourt, pulled up  mounted by the Wildcats.  Panthers have lost 11 of their  
and hit the biggest shot of his  Wayne Turner's 3-pointer  last 12 games against Syracuse.  
career.  after a Florida turnover sliced  Ryan  Blackwell and Etan  
Florida 86, No. 7 Kentucky 78  the margin to 47-45 with 16:57 to go but Kentucky would draw no closer as Weaks took charge  Thomas each scored 14 for Syracuse. Blackwell also had a game-high eight rebounds and  
[_~~  Jason Williams and Kenyan Weaks each scored 24 points as Florida hit 12 3-pointers, the most ever by a Kentucky oppo­ for the Gators. Weaks scored on a short jumper, hit two free throws and drilled two 3-pointers in a 10-4  blocked three shots. Vonteego Cummings led Pittsburgh with 23 points, but 14 of those came after the  
In conjunction with the University Club of Notre Dame, sail Celebrity's new magnificient, "Mercury", for her inaugural Alaskan cruise.  nent in Rupp Arena, to stun the No.7 Wildcats 86-78 Sunday.  run to put Florida up 59-49 at 12:26.  Panthers had fallen behind by 24 points.  
June 12, 1998  7 NIGHT NORTHBOUND GLACIER  
Mercury joins Celebrity's Five-Star Fleet with award winning cuisine  
created by Master Chef Michel Roux. Discover stylish staterooms; five-star service, gala stage productions and world class recreational amenities. It's all part of your Celebrity experience.  Ill 
Call NOW for this special group pricing, cabin categories and brochure.  
Deposit Deadline Feb. 04, 1998 1518 Miami Street  :1: 
234-6636 1-800-472-6714  1­ 
Nulrr.  Dame  Gr,mmunicat;on  and  Theatre  presents  

for the 1998-99 year. You may pick up Student Activities, 315 
ALUMNI 
A(~tors from the tondon St.agt'-Ill
SENIOR 
Biddy Wells wH! present Peter lindfnrd l><il present Re•rnd 11e Grave The Poetry of PMp Larkin ASci~ct,un cf Ghosts mStones. The Poems of a Pacr1s, and Epitaohs 'imv Prwa!;; Man 
:1: 

Tur.sday FP.bruary 3 Wednesday. Febwary '1 430 prrt Wast;lngton Hail 4:3J pm. Washillgton 1-iali 
1­

Free and opao to the public Fw8 and open to the public 

page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 2, 1998 
• WOMEN'S COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Vols continue perfect season 
Associated p...,.. 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. 

Chamique Holdsclaw scored 30 points to lead No. 1 Tennessne to a 73-66 win over Alabama on Sunday. 
The Lady Vols (23-0, 9-0 Southnastern Conference) defeated the Crimson Tide for the 18th consecutive time. Tennessee led by as many as 19 points early in the second half, but couldn't quite finish Alabama (14-7, 6-3) until the dosing minutes. 
Tamika Catchings, who added 15 points for Tennessee, hit a 3­pointllr to give the Lady Vols a 55-36 lead at 13:09. But a 10-2 run by the Crimson Tide, keyed by Dominique Canty, brought Alabama to within 56-46 with I 0 minutes left. 
Alabama used an 8-2 run to cut the lead to 71-66 with 35 snconds left. But the Crimson Tide couldn't score again. Kristnn Clement and lloldsclaw hit one free throw each to seal the win. 
Tausha Mills helped Alabama to an early lead, scoring her tnam's first three baskets as the Crimson Tide took an 8-2 edge in the opening three minutes. 
Tennessee fought baek behind lloldselaw and Catchings and grabhf'ld a 13-12 lead on Clement's three-point play at 13:01. 
Tlw lady Vols wer1~ unable to pull away in a tough stretch midway through the half. Both teams strugglnd ofl'nnsively until the final four minutes of' the half'. wlwn the Lady Vols outscored Alabama 13-7 to take a 39-26 halftime lead. lloldselaw sparked the run with eight points, induding a 3-point bas­knt to end the half'. 
Texas 74. No. 24 Iowa State 67 

Angela Jackson scored a rarePr-high 29 points and had 12 rebounds Sunday in Texas' 7 4-6 7 vir tory over No. 24 Iowa State. 
Th() Longhorns (8-1 0, 3-5 Big 

12) put the game away with 64 percent (21 of 33) shooting that led to a 49-31 halftime lead. 
Iowa State (17-4, (J-2) out­played Texas, which shot only 24 pere11nt after halftime, in the second half but couldn't ovm­come the deficit. 
.land Grimm led Iowa State with I1) points, while Stacy Frnse 
Wednesday, February 4th, 1998@ the CSC From 5:30 to 7:00 p.m. 
f 

FREE Dinner will be served! Everyone is welcomed! 
Please RSVP by February 2nd, 1998 at 1-6841 Brought to you by the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
added 17 and Megan Taylor had 13 points and 11 rebounds. 
Joining Jackson in double fig­ures for Texas were Kim Lummas with 16 points, Vanessa Wallace with 13 and Dee Smith with 10 points and 11 rebounds. 
No. 16 Virginia 83, Florida St. 76 

Kate Mooney scored a career­high 22 poinl<>, including a criti­cal 3-pointcr in overtime, to lead No.16 Virginia past Florida State 83-76 Sunday. 
Florida State (7-14, 3-8 ACC), which has never beaten Virginia (15-5, 6-4) in 16 meetings, had a chance to win the game in regu­lation. But with six seconds remaining and the score 69-69, Val Linley, a 75 percent foul shooter, missed two fren throws. 
Virginia's DeMya Walker scored the first three points of overtime to give the Cavalier a 72-69 lead and they never trailed. 
After Florida State's Lysa Moorefield cut the deficit to 74­73 with 2:32 left, Virginia's Lesley Brown scored on a follow shot and then with 55 seconds remaining Mooney made a 3­pointer from the left baseline to push the lead to 79-73. 
"That was a huge 3-point bas­ket," Virginia coach Debbie Hyan said. "We were fortunate just to be in overtime and fortu­nate to win." 
Virginia point guard Mimi McKinney scored 15 points before fouling out with six sec­onds left in regulation. Starting point guard Henee Hobinson missed the game after sufl'ering a concussion last week against Old Dominion. 
That left the ball-handling chores to freshmen Erin Stovall and Katie Tracy in overtime. Tracy hit two free throws with 37 seconds left to keep Virginia comfortably ahead, 81-75. 
Latavia Coleman and Lysa 
Use Observer Classifieds. 

Moorefield paced Florida State with 16 points each. Freshman Brooke Wyckoff had eight points, 14 rebounds and five blocks. 
Virginia led 37-32 at halftime, as Mooney made five of seven 3­point field goal attempts. 
No. 8 Illinois 78, Penn State 69 

Ashley Berggren scored 31 points as No. 8 Illinois built a large lead and held on to beat Penn State 78-69 Sunday. 
The Fighting Illini (15-6, 9-2 Big Ten) built a 17-point advan­tage by halftime, 46-29, thanks to superb shooting. Illinois shot 61 percent for the game. 
The Lady Lions (13-8, 7-4) cut the deficit to seven on a three­point play by Maren Walseth with 7:22 remaining in the game. 
Illinois immediately restored its double-figure lead on two free throws by Berggren and a 3-pointer by Krista Heinking. Penn State would get no closer the rest of the way. 
Heinking finished with 12 points, including 2-of-3 shooting from 3-point range. 
Helen Darling led Penn State with 16 points. Andrea Garner added 14 points and 10 rebounds, Clara Carter had 13 points and Walseth scored 10 points. 
No.12 N. Carolina St. 85, Ga. Tech 60 

LySchale Jones scored 20 points and No. 12 North Carolina State turned 20 Georgia Tech turnovers into 21 points in an 85-60 victory Sunday. 
Tynesha Lewis scored 15, Peace Shepard and Summer Erb 14 points each and Nailah Wallace 12 for the Wolfpack {18­3, 9-2 Atlantic Coast Conference). Jones also had four steals, three blocked shots and two assists. 
~'The ability to communicate is everything. ,, 
-Lee Iacocca 
The NDCIBD and Deloitte & Touche present: 
TIM KOEGEL 
LEARN: 

•
How to captivate your audience 

•How 
to make an impact in job interviews 

•
How to add excitement to a classroom presentation 

•How 
to portray professionalism in future job experiences 


Monday, Feb. 2"d 4:30pm Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Recent participants include: 
Merrill Lynch Stanford University Coca-Cola 
Tom Koegel is a 1982 ND graduate. He played quarterback and was a member of the 1977 National Championship team. 
•NFL 

Moon pushes AFC 
to Pro Bowl victory 
Associated Press 

Warren Moon, at 41 the 
oldest Pro Bowl player and 
chosen for the game only 
because John Elway pulled 
out, led a late rally as the 
AFC came back Sunday to 
take a 29-24 Pro Bowl victory 
over the NFC. 

The AFC trailed 21-7 at 
halftime after San Francisco's 
Steve Young threw a pair of 
touchdown passes for the 
NFC, 

The Seahawks' Moon, who first practiced with the all­stars on Thursday, guided the AFC to a field goal and a pair of touchdowns in the fourth quarter. 
Voted the game's MVP, 
Moon scored the go-ahead TD 
himself on a 1-yard quarter~ 
back sneak with 1:49 remain­
ing. 

The AFC cashed on a pair of fourth-quarter fumbles, by Tampa Bay's Warrick Dunn and Atlanta's Chris Chandler, for the two touchdowns. 
Seattle's Darryl Williams recovered Dunn's fumble at the AFC 49, and Moon, appearing in his ninth Pro Bowl, engineered a 51-yard scoring drive that pulled the AFC to 24-23 with 2:31 remaining. After Tennessee's Eddie George scored on a 4­yard run, Moon threw incom­plete on the two-point con­version try. The AFC got the ball back 12 seconds later. with Seattle's Michael Sinclair recovering Chandler's fumble at the NFC 16. 
After George netted 15 yards on three carries, Moon scored to give the AFC the lead for the first time in the game. 
Moon, four y(~ars older than anyone else in the game, played only the fourth quar­ter and comploted 4·of-8 for 89 yards, including a 57­yarder to Oakland's Tim Brown to set up George's TD run. 
Brown wound up with live catches for 129 yards. 
Jacksonville's Mike Hollis kicked a 48-yard field goal with 8:51 remaining to cut the NFC lead to 24-17. 
New England's Drew Bledsoe pulled the AFC to 21­14 when he connected with Jacksonville's Jimmy Smith for a 14-yard score in the third quarter. 
Denver running back Terrell Davis, the MVP in the Broncos' 31-24 Super Bowl victory over Green Bay, left the all-star game early in the second quarter with a strained left hamstring and did not return. Davis carried six times for 27 yards before he was hurt. 
For the first time in memo­ry, if not Pro Bowl history. two players were ejected for fighting: Denver defensive end Neil Smith and San Francisco guard Kevin Gogan. The two even contin­ued jawing at each other as the left the field and headed to their respective locker rooms. 
Young completed 5-of-11 for 103 yards, including touchdown passes of 22 yards to Detroit's Herman Moore and 36 yards to Arizona's Rob Moore. Young now has thrown a Pro Bowl record four TD passes in his career. 
Green Bay's Dorsey lAwens added a 12-yard scoring run just before halftime to extend the NFC lead to 21-7. 
Monday, February 2, 1998 
W. 8-ball 
continued from page 20 
who had a game-high 24 points. Hiley, in yet another strong out­ing, scorr,d 14 points and six rebounds. 
"TIHJse past few days really left us with a bitter taste in our mouths." McMillen remarked. "We wanted to come out today and really make up for that loss. We wanted to take it out on Seton llall and I think we did a really good job of that." 
llowever it was strong perfor­mances from the bench that madP a differr-ncP in the lop­sidP-d victory. Julic Henderson scorml a carP-er-high 11 points. Braendly finished with nine points and three boards, while senior Kari Hutchinson had four points and a game-high seven rr-bounds. 
"The bench is coming in and playing a lot bP-tter." McGraw said. "and I think that's definite­ly helping us because they know that if they don't play well we're going to put tlw starters back in." 
On the other end of the spec­trum. Seton Hall's two-game winning streak ended with its worst outing of the season. Goray, the star player and lead­ing scorer for the Pirates, was 
The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
held to six points, il SMC BASKETBALL far below her average of 17.4 points per game. 
CoiDeback falls short 
No Seton Hall players scored in double figures, 
as Belles lose 86-75
while Koren and Fischer had eight 
By MOLLY MCVOY Defiance went in at the halfpoints each. As a Sports Writer and adjusted very well. They
team, Seton llall came out in the second halfshot 19.4 percent 
Saint Mary's dropped a and scored ten unanswered
from the field for tough home game on Saturday points. Saint Mary's contin­
the game, and 
to Defiance College 86-75. The ued to play tough, but they
13.8 percent in Belles played hard, but the were outsized and wearing
the first half. 

ladies of Defiance wore out out. With 14:38 remaining in"I think anytime Saint Mary's and went home the game, it was 59-43 you get a big lead, with the win. Starters for Defiance. Throughout the sec­there's a tendency Saint Mary's were senior cap­ond half, Saint Mary's brought
to let up," 
tain Brenda Hoban, senior it within three or four, but they
McMillen 
captain Darcy Nikes, junior never got the lead. With 2:30
remarked, "and 
Charlotte Albrecht, freshman left to play, it was 85-70.
we've talked 
Courtney Litka, and freshman Defiance kept control and went
about it in all of The Observer/John Daily 
Julie Norman. on to win it 86-75. 
our huddles. Mary Letters turned in a strong performance from Once we got a big 
the bench in Saturday's win over the Pirates. The game did not start well Saint Mary's made the shots for the Belles. Defiance had when they had them.
lead going, we points were the second fewest 
twelve unanswered points to Unfortunately, Defiance out
need to keep it going. In the allowed by a Notre Dame team open up the first half. Norman rebounded them, and SMCsecond half we need to keep our and the second fewest scored by stopped Defiance's run with only got one shot at their endturnovers down and quit fouling, an opposing team at the Joyce 
two points for Saint Mary's. while Defiance got three or
and we did a good job of that Center. 
With 10:02 remaining in the four. Defiance was quite a bittoday." Notre Dame improves to 14-6 half, the score was 26-14 taller than the Belles and thatWith the loss, the Pirates fall on the season and 8-4 in the Big Defiance. Saint Mary's began helped them notably under theto 5-14 on the season and 3-8 in East. For their next trip, the a great comeback with about basket and on the boards.
conference play. Irish will head to the warmer five minutes remaining in the Leading scorer.s for SaintThe 56-point margin of victory climate of Florida to face off 
half. With scrappy defense, Mary's were senior Julie
for the Irish was the second­against conference rival Miami. 
especially by senior Julie McGill, who had an outstand­
largest in school history, beaten Tip off is set for 7 p.m. tomor­McGill, and some nice shooting ing 24 points, senior Darcyonly by a 113-35 Irish win over row in the Knight Sports by Nikes, the Belles made it Nikes, who had 17 points andLiberty in 1989. Seton Hall's 35 Complex. 
44-41 at half-time. junior Charlotte Albrecht, who 

had 14. Saint Mary's has another home game against Bethel College today at 7:00 PM and two home matches this
Ask theiRS 
weekend against North Central College and Franklin College.
amorpm. 
There, the Belles and coach Tax questions? Call TeleTax, toll-free, for recorded 
Dave Roeder hope to turn things around.
information on about 150 tax topics, 24 hours a day. 
~<fiil Department of the Treasury mIIIIP.ele~ax
~&1/1 Internal Revenue Service ~ I • ~ I ~ http://www.usJreas.gov 1-800-829-4477 
~Observer. 
We've got
•

1ssues. 
Go againstthe grain. 
Cut down on sa"it. 
American Heart 
Association 
WE'RE FIGHTING FOR 
YOUR LlFE 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
& the English Department proudly present: 
TABLEAU FERRAILLE 
1997-85min 
LAND01J£AUTY&rUNTY 
A feature film from Senegal Dissects the social chaos engulfing parts ofAfrica through the story of an idealistic politician's rise and fall. 
"Tableau Ferraille" offers an intimate view of how modernization corrodes traditional communities and retards grass­roots development. It deplores a corrupt post-colonial elite's exploitation of the promise ofAfrican independence. In his· film, Moussa Sene Absa contrasts two possible development paths for Africa: one towards self-reliance and social cohesion, the other rowards self-interest and social chaos. 
In "Tableau Ferraille," Daam, a well intentioned but vacillating European-trained politician, must choose between these two paradigms clearly exemplified by his two wives. His first wife, Gagnesiri, is a dignified village woman, dedi­cated to husband, family, and community. She may represent Africa with its vast unrealized potential, waiting patiently, perhaps roo patiently, for politicians and technocrats like Daam to develop its potentials. Unlike Gagnesiri, Kine is a Western educated woman. She wants to open an art gallery and travel abroad, even chiding Daam for not using his position ro acquire wealth like the other government ministers ... 
Wednesday, February 4 • 7:00pm • 141 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
Other Screenings & Lectures: Wed. Feb. 11: Taafe Fanga (Mali-1997) Wed. Feb. 18: Prime Time South Africa (1995-1996) Wed. Feb. 25@ 7:00pm: Lecture by Lani Guineer Hesburgh Library Auditorium Wed. March 4: Malcom X (Part 2) B S ike Lee 

Monday, February 2, 1998 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• TRACK AND ftELD 
Women lose close Men break even in tri-meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN guy who was faster than him Phil Mishka moved into the
• Sports Writer going in; and Danny Payton did lead for good half-way through well running three events for the 800-meter run. In the mile,
Intra-state contest 
The men's track and field us and coming. back to have. a Conway and Hexing came from 
Deeter scores double victory despite loss 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN SportS Writer 
The wonwn's traek and field team was rfpfeatcd Friday 1)2­67 by Indiana in a dual meet at Bloomington. 
Although hoping to be somPwhat closer in points, the eoaelws and tPam mcm­bPrs worn still fairly ph~ased because of thn level of compe­tition. Tlw scoring was very tight early on, but Indiana pulled out a big load. 
"On the women's side, we just don't have the numbers to compn!P in a dual meet sit­uation," said sprints and hur­dles coach John Millar. "13ut I thought tlw women we took r:ompntnd VPry well. Nadia Schmit~dt was probably the most outstanding sprinter on the women's side." 
Sophomore .JoAnna Deeter brough~ homP a doublo victo­ry, winning both the mile and 3000-mPter runs. llerit .Junker won the ROO-meter run fairly easily in 2:15.02. Freshman Carri Lenz and junior Nadia Sehmiedt were nPek-and-neek in thn 400­mnter run, with l.enz coming out in front in 57.45. The two are l'rom the samo hometown (London, Ontario). 
"I was pleased, obviously, with JoAnna Deeter. She ran exceptionally well," said head coach Joe l'iane. "You'vo also got to be very pleased with Carri Lenz in the 400-meters and Nadia Sehmiedt in the 400-meters and 600-metors; also Berit Junker winning the 800-motcrs. She's been injured, and I think she sur­prised some people. Angela Patrizio did a very good job in the triple jump." 
"I thought. as a team, for 

tho first meet that was 
seored, we did roally, really 
well," said Sehmiedt. "It was 
kind of a good indieator for 
the Big East. but we have a 
lot of time left to improve for 
that." 
Freshman Janelle Reklau placed second in the long jump to Indiana's Marie fleischmann; Kelle Saxen and Jennifer Engelhardt were sec­ond and third. respectively, in the high jump, each jumping 5'6 1/2". Engelhardt was also third in the 55-meter hurdles. 
Notre Dame dominated the distance, with the first five runners in the mile run and the first three in the 3000­meter run all coming from the Fighting Irish. Deeter's time 
(5:03) in the mile was three seconds better than her time in this meet .last year. Her 3000-m(~ter time was an NCAA provisional qualifer time of 1):46.64. 
"My general impression was that it was really exciting to be baek with the whole team. As for my own performance, it was a fun meet and good to get out there again," said Deeter. "I was kind of disap­pointed with my mile, but I was happy with being able to get out thore in the 3000­meter run on my own without any competition. That should mean I'll be able to run faster." 
"It was one of those meets where we had our really good athletes," said women's dis­tance coach Tim Connelly. "If you look at it, protty much from the 400-meters up, we had a really good night. JoAnna Deeter obviously had an excellent night, Alison Klemmer did very well in the :woo-meter run, and Patti Hice had a really good dou­ble." 

team fell just short of a double victory in a meet at Indiana University in Bloomington Friday, finishing just behind Tennessee and beating Indiana. 
The Fighting Irish were sec­ond in triangular scoring, which scores all three teams competing against each other. The point totals were 120, 110, and 94 respectively for Tennessee, Notre Dame, and Indiana. In dual competition, Notre Dame outran Indiana 85-77. but was knocked off in the end by Tennessee 84-78. The scoring was very tight, with first place alternating between Tennessee and Notre Dame throughout the meet. 
"On the men's team," said sprints and hurdles coach John Millar, "to be within six points of Tennessee, one of the top teams in the SEC (Southeastern Conference), is very good." 
"Our kids all ran very, very well," said head coach Joe Piano. "We had good pcrfor­manees across the board. It's just really unfortunate that Mike Brown didn't have a chance to vault. That certainly would have changed things on the men's side. If Mike would have vaulted and won, we would have tied Tennessee in dual competition. I was also a little disappointed with the 3000-meter run." 
"I think on the men's side, Chris Cochran did very well, especially in the 200-meter dash; Errol Williams was excellent in meeting the NCAA provisional time for the 55­meter hurdles and beating a 

One & Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year. Summer Rentals }une,August. 
Monday February 2 TOl\IJCHT 7PM Panel Discussion: The Catholic Response to AIDS [Debartolo 129] 
Wednesday February 4 

7PM Showing of Philadelphia [Montgomery Theater-LaFortune] 

very good 4 x 400-meter leg." 

Payton set a meet reeord in the 600-meter run, coming out of nowhere in the last 125 meters to take first in 1 :20.R. He placed third to Trent Davis of Indiana and Bobby Brown in the 400-meter run. Williams, Bobby Brown, Payton, and Cochran combined to win the 1600-meter relay, with Williams taking the lead from the start. Thei·r time was 3:14.11, a new meet record. 
Williams and Cochran also won individual events. Cochran won the 200-metnr dash in 
21.71. beating Tennessee's Bussell Fryn, who has already qualified for the NCAA indoor championships. Williams tied the school record of 7. 21J in tho hurdles, whieh he set last woek at Michigan. That time is an NCAA provisional qualifier. 
in track and field, there are enrtain marks which automati­cally qualify an individual l'or nationals, regardless of how many people meet that mark. If less than 21 people qualify under the automatie stan­dards, athletes who meet the somewhat less stringent provi­sional marks will qualify until baek in the paek to finish first and second respoctively. Hexing began to kick with about (,00 metors remaining in the 3000-meter run, really turning on tho speed in the last quarter mile to take out the field. 
there are  21  qualifie d for the  
NCAAs.  
every event  
I  

"As far as the distance team went, we had some pretty good performancns," said Hnxing. "We won every event from the 600 to tlw 3000. Personally, I was fairly pleased. It was pret­ty mueh what I expeeted. A lot of times, it ean take a whilo to get radng fit. You ean fetd like you're pretty fit, but raeing is a whol1~ diffnrPnt ball gamn." 
Marshaun Wost plaeed sec­ond in tlw long jump and third in tlH• 200-nwtnr dash. T1~rry Wray was third in tho (,()()­meter run and fourth in tlw 400-nwter dash. 
This was the first competi­tion ol' the sr~ason l'or many distance runners, as well as stweral sprinters, so it was a ehanee for them to test thoir level of litness. The lf~am was missing Mike Brown, who sPt a school rncord last week in tlw pole va'ult. Brown was rncovnr­ing from a strainod hamstring, but should be back this wci~k­end for the highly eompntitivn Meyo Invitational. whieh Notre 
me will host. 

.au~~-Jeo/t~;;~ ~e Jl~rJ.JW/teP.J 
Post Graduate Yr. Volunteer Program 
Post-Graduate Yr. Volunteer Program See the info Booth Wednesday, February 4 from 1:00 to 5:00 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
A general Information Session will be held at 6:00p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. 
'l'llnwnow, Tu..sday, Ft>brum·y :3, l<Jl)!l Fm· timt• and lot'ation of nu•t•linp;, ,.,dJ: l-!!041 NDLGS Group Advism·s: Fr·. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr·.Mar·y Louist· Gwlt~, C.S.C. 

rivate and confidential. 
The University of Notre Dame Departme~t~TM~~ic presents Son'jS ~o'l Sop'la.no and Cjulta.'l 
CJeo'ltji111! 'RegLck, gop'laJw 
J1JLtlt 'ZJai!Ld /!.ei!'JJte'l, <Juitt:t'li!'Jt j cmr1rogetz 
II 

\... - ~~­- ...... ~ -._.--..... ·  7:30p.m., Monday, february 2 20th Century Gallery, Snite Museum  
Tickets $2  

Ticket~ available at the Lafortune Box Office, or charge by phone 
(219) 631-8128. Limited seating; reserve your ticket in advance. Call 1-6201 for more information. 
. -------------­
Monday, February 2, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
----------------------------~~ 
You wolft need a recoininendation frolll Vern Jordan to get a great job with us. 
Oak Brook Bank, the leading independent commercial bank in Chicago's affluent, growing western suburbs, offers special opportunities for the best and brightest in either of our two management training programs: 
Becotne an Internal Consultant. Changing banking technologies and shifting con­sumer demands inspired our training program for internal consultants. Learn to create innovative platforms and alternative delivery systems for banking services. Help devel­op and analyze market research and build new banking products to appeal to modern consumers. Work on structuring new frameworks for human resource deployment. As you apply your talents and energies to these and other strategic projects, you'll be enhancing your ability to cmnmunicate and .make decisions while honing your financial skills. 
Or, become a Cotnmercial Banker. Expand your understanding of the crucial relationships between a financial institution and its customers by joining our training program for commercial bankers. See first-hand how front-line customer contact-in cash management, commercial lending, commercial real estate, asset management and related areas-drives bottom-line financial performance. Learn how to market and manage valued client relationships through networking and team-building. Develop your people and analytical skills simultaneously. 
In either progratn, you'll become part of a dynamic, growing, publicly-held company. (We trade as First Oak Brook Bancshares, Inc., symbol FOBBA, on the NASDAQ Stock Market.) Join a con1pany which earned nearly $14 million in 1997 and enjoyed the sixth consecutive year of annual compound double digit stock price and dividend in­creases. In fact, our stock price n1ore than doubled in 1997. 
If that's not enough, maybe some of the things our recent managetnent trainees say about us will intrigue you: "Oak Brook Bank pays like a money center bank." "It's located in one of the most livable and safest urban areas in America." "It's so technolog­ically forward looking," "It's a public company but feels like a well-run family business." 
Please come to an informational meeting on Wednesday, February 4 in the CCE~ 
Roont 112 at 7:30 pm. Interviews will be held on Thursday, February 5. We look forward to meeting you. 
OAJ( BROOJ( BANI( 
Headquarters • 1400 Sixteenth Street • Oak Brook • Illinois • 60523 Human Resources • Phone (603) 571-1050, ext. 219 • Fax (630) 571-0519 
Member FDIC • Equal Opportunity Employer rnlf 

-------~-·------­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, February 2, 1998 

.. 
• BASEBALL 
Irish win opener, lose next two 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Sports Writer 
II' snason-opnners east any Ii g h t on a ..------,-----,
tnam 's potPn­tial in the coming months. the NotrP Dame baseball Warn has a bright future. 

In its P a r li-,..___-----="'---:c~-'--'"--' est opening 
gamn Pvnr. tlw tnam blastnd No. 2:{ Florida StalP I0-1 at thP Atlantic Coast 
Conl'nr·nncn/DisnBy Basnball Blast on Friday night in Lake Btwna Vista. Fla. 
Tlw pitching staff. led by junior right-hander Alex Shilliday ( 1-0). looknd strong aflnr the winll~r layoff. allowing orw run on four hits. Shilliday thn~w five shutout innings, striking out six and walking four while allowing only one hit. Junior left-bander Chris McKeown hurled three innings, giving up the lone Seminole run on two hits and a walk. Freshman Aaron Heilman mopped up in the ninth, facing four battnrs and allowing one hit. 
Oll'ensively, the Irish beat the Seminoles with a balanced 
• HocKEY 
Wolverines sweep icers over weekend 
Sprcial to The Observer 
The Notrn Dame hockey team droppnd two tough losses to the No. 7 Michigan Wolverines this 
we11k11nd. falling into a  tie for  
seventh  place  in  the  CCHA  
standings.  

In the tirst game, played at the .Joycn Center Fieldhouse, the Michigan goaltender stopped 29 of 31 shots on goal as the Wolverines rolled to a 7-2 victo­ry. The Irish drew tirst blood as freshman .Jay Kopischke found the goal with an assist from sophomore Tyson Fraser. The second goal was scored by fresh­man Mark Eaton at the 7:10 mark of the second period. 
In the second game at Yost Ice Arena, Notre Dame rallied for three third-period goals to take the game to overtime, but Michigan junior left wing Greg Crozier's third goal sent the Irish horne with anothnr loss, 5-4. 
Notre Damn struck for two goals in a 61 second span, cut­ting the lmtd to 4-3 at the 9:40 mark of the third period. The attack. 
In the first, Notre Dame senior shortstop .J .J Brock led off with a single to right and advanced on a sacritice bunt by second baseman Todd Frye. Singles by sophomore third baseman Brant Ust, junior catcher Jeff Wagner and junior centerlielder Allen Greene gave. the Irish a 2-0 advantage. 
An HBI single by Frye and a sacritice fly by Ust plated two more Irish runs in the second, before Notre Dame broke the game opnn in the fourth. 
Senior first baseman Dan Leatherman -who belted just one home run in 55 at-bats in IIJ97 -drove a Chris Chavez offering over the right field fence to give the Irish a 5-0 lead. Ust. Wagner and Greene drew two-out walks before sophomom Jeff Felker blasted a bases-elearing triple that the FSU outfielders lost in the lights. 
Notre Dame plated two more runs in the ninth to close out the scoring and spoil the Seminoles' 16-year opening day win streak. The win was the first season-opening victory since an 8-2 win over Tulane in 1994. 
While opening day proved lucky for the Irish. the next two days brought two-run losses at 
Irish then tied the game on a the the play dead for a faceoff, power play goal, their second of believing that the Wolverine the game, by Eaton with an goalie had sufficiently covered assist from freshman Dan the puck. Carlson. With the losses, the Irish fall to 
Then, with 23.7 seconds left in 13-13-3 on the season, and 8­regulation, Steve Noble flicked 10-3 in the CCiiA. The team will the puck into the upper-right take the ice again this Friday at hand corner of the net for the home against Bowling Green. apparent game winner. The faee-off is set for 7:00 pm at However, the referee had blown the Joyce Center. 
First Annual 
Thomas Aquinas 
• 

Saturday, February 7, 1998 
10:30 am-Le Mans Hall Saint Mary's College 
Notre Dame, Indiana 
the hands of North Carolina State and Duke. 
After grabbing a 4-3 lead from NC State in the eighth, courtesy of an Ust solo homer, Notre Dame surrendered seven runs in the bottom of the inning. The Irish clawed back in the ninth, as Wagner drilled a grand slam, but the Wolfpack held on for a 1 0-8 victory. 
Sophomore right-hander Steve Szczepanski (0-1) took the loss, allowing two earned runs on three hits in three-plus innings of work. 
On Sunday, the Duke Blue Devils cooled Notre Dame's hot bats en route to a 3-1 victory and an undefeated weekend. 
Irish junior right-hander Brad Lidge gave up a two-run single in the first inning, while Blue Devil righties Patrick Hanaway and Brad Dupree held an Irish offense that pounded out 22 hits in its tirst two games to just live. 
The lone Irish run came in the fifth, when Frye drew a bases-loaded walk following a single by sophomore rightlield­er Jeff Perconte, an error and a walk by Brock. 
While the Irish may have come home with a losing record, the 1998 season is in its infancy and the team has plenty of positives on which to build. 

M. B-ball 
continued from page 20 

St. John's then opened the second half by keeping Notre Dame off balance enough to forge a seven-point advantage with less than eight minutes remaining in the eontest. 
Felipe Lopez led the way for the Storm, scoring 13 points and grabbing seven boards, while Collin Charles con­tributed 11 in the loss. 
The Irish seized control of the alTair when Friel nailed his only three-pointer of the game to cut the deficit to just two points with about six minutes remaining and they never 
Presentations: 
10:30 am--"Wine and Wisdom: Imbibing Truth from Thomas's Summa" -Joseph M. Incandela 
1:30pm--"Thomas on Friendship" -Holly Arends andJanet Kelley 
3: 15 pm --"Thomas on Eucharist as Forgiveness" -Keith J. Egan 
5:00 pm --Eucharist, Regina Chapel. 
Presider & Homilist --Thomas F. ,0 'Meara, O.P. 
Joyce 

-Iii­
McMahon Hank 
SAINT 
Aquinas Chair in NIARY'S 
COLLEGE
Catholic Theology 
NOTRE DAME, lN 
Religious Studies Department Saint Mary's College Information: 219-284-4636 
looked back. Manner and Wyche shut the door on St. John's with eight free throws in the closing minutes. 
Notre Dame now must string together somn wins in order to make a push toward the top of the Big East 6. Tlw Irish will faee Hutgers on the road on Thursday before paying a visit to Georg1~town on Saturday afternoon. 
"It's a big weekend for us," lnglesby said. "If we can (win the next two) we should have the momentum to win a few in a row and hit our prime at the end of the season." 
What remains to be seen is whether or not the Irish can keep Mr. Hyde on the bench until then. 

a 

• Monday, February 2, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
53 To see, in Marseille 55 Overdue 

-7-+=+::+.::+.::+.::+=E-i 35 Boardwalk 

The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and  D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  
Name __________________________________________  
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ Address _______________________________________ City _______State ____ Zip______  
ing form and mail it today to receive The  
Observer in your home.  

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM DAN SULLIVAN 

MIKE PETERS 



SCOTT ADAMS 

r------------------------,ur-----------------------~
~ 

DILBERT 
SO, YOU IGNORED MY R.ECOf"\MENDI\IION AND BOUGI--\T A. LOW-COST SYSIE.M THAT'S TOTALLY INI\DEQUA-IE ... 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 37 "My Three Sons" son
1 The Bee Gees 38 Classic film duo
brothers 40 The "A" in RAM
6 Subside 41 Vanquished
9 Big hit, in 42 Nearby things 
Variety slang 43 Go over 212° 
14 Journalist-­Rogers St. 44 Bird on a U.S. Johns coin 15lnlet 
45Weaving machine

16Zhou-­
49 Actor Emilio 17 Classic film duo 54 0ld-time 20 Andean animals 

actress Ina 21 Entrance 
56 Classic film duo 22Villad'-­
59 Stradivari's 

23 Old card game mentor 2&Film--60 Help 27 Sirs' 61 ltsy-bitsy 
counterparts 62 Without face 32 "Catcher in the 
value, as stock Rye" author 63 Numbered hwy. 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 19 Tollbooth part ':':T-:-r=-r.:-r:-r:~ 24 Pop u I ar brand of faucet -:=:t:-7+=+::-t:::+.::-t 25 Span i e I, for one -...~::..r~ 27 Look dejected ~"'+="iooo ~~~"'! 28 With 49-Down, former Israeli 
statesman 29 Border 30Bog 31 Fedex, e.g. 32 Suffix with 
thermo­
~-=::+=+4.=+::-1 33 Part of the toot 
7-t':+.:+.::+.::+.::+.::-B 34 Shoestring 
coolers 
8 YOU COMPENSATED FOR 
.... ~ THIS BLUNDER C>Y ; ® MA!<..ING IT PART OF ~ <( MY OBJ"ECTIVE5 TO :; 1-f"\A'f...E. "THE 5Y5TEM 
(J 

64 Swashbuckling Flynn 
DOWN 
1 Bit of Gothic architecture 2 False gods 3 Fathered, biblical-style 4Hold responsible 5 F.D.R.'s mother 6 Cenozoic, e.g. 7 Coal container a Nag, nag, nag 9 Vanquished 10 A single time 11 Imperfection 12 F.D.R.'s pooch 13 Unctuous 
18 Former Presidential aspirant Paul 
> z YOU'LL GE.T A BONUS FOR 
SAVING f"\ONE.Y. I'LL ~ GE.T FIRED 1 THUS SA.VING l MORE MONE.Y A.ND E.~RNING ~ "'OU ANOTkE.R. BONUS. 



36 Where bulls and 49 See 28-Down bears run: Abbr. so Japanese 
37 Mirror 39 Greeting to 
Hitler 
43 Charity event 
44 Poet's period after dusk 45 Cake part 46 Long-spouted 
can 47 University of Maine town 48 Streep of "Out of Africa" 

wrestling 
51 Golf hazard 57 Small point to 
52 Jazz 
criticize singer-­58 J.F.K.'s James predecessor 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries:Today you are the win­ner of The Great American Beauty Contest, revered by the masses wherever you live. Take this affirmation and do some­thing exciting with it. No one will question you at this stage of the game. 
Taurus:As you launch your elaborate courtship ritual, remember that Love is a Funny Thing. It's easy to miss small but important pieces of reality as you follow your own script. Leave an opening for a graceful exit, just in case. 
Gemini:Even if you are not the big star today, take pride in your role as The Helper. Some things will be impossible with­out your input. Everyone con­tributes a little and gets a lot in return. 
Cancer:Today's emphasis should be Strictly Business. If you can keep everything on track without ruffling any feath­ers, so much the better. This is not the time to be someone's surrogate therapist. 
Leo:This is A Good Day to Die, and to be reborn as someone completely different. You are wide open to whatever the uni­verse has to offer. Romance, travel, and self-discovery are today's favored activities. 
Virgo:If you would deal with others today, expect to make Small Sacrifices for the common good. Your tolerance for stress may be extremely low. Quit early if possible, and try to get some extra sleep. 

Libra:You find yourself going to Extremities today. From this end of your sagging branch, you must either jump to the next tree or fall to the ground. Any relationship that lasts through this is sure to be a strong one. 
Scorpio:You may experience a little Sunburn from the heat of the moment. Something impor­tant is overlooked during a mad rush for closure. Move slowly and coolly to ensure a happy ending for everyone. 
Sagittarius:Today you are The Lovemaster. knowing all and telling nothing. Others may find you smug and flighty, but you feel too good to care. If you worked as hard as you play, you would be dangerous. 
Capricorn:Strange bedfellows are trapped in The Burning Bed. You may not have chosen your companions for today's ordeal, but you seem to be stuck with theln until it's all over. Old prej­udice is temporarily suspended. 
Aquarius:When making new friends today, Three's A Crowd. There is electricity in the tight focus of person to person com­munication. Lust or some other form of self-interest may be at the heart of the matter, but for now, who cares? 
Pisces:You think that Criminal Behavior would not be out of the question today. Before you break any laws, examine alternative ways of getting what you need. Consider also the con­sequences of your intended crime. 

Wanted: Reporters and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
• 
... SPORTS 
page 20 

• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
Irish weather the Red Storm, 73-65 
By BRIAN REINTHALER surge, scoring 16 points Assistant Spons Editor despite going just 1-4 from three-point land. The sopho­Dr . .lt~kyll strikes again. more added four boards and By knocking off St. .John's at three assists to complement Madison Square Garden on Garrity's 23 points. eight 
Saturday. the Irish not only rebounds and four assists. 
.. 
avnngt~d an earlier defeat at Perhaps the underlying story the hands of the Red Storm, of the game for the Irish, how­but tlwy once again accentuat­ever. was the steady play of ed their uncanny ability to their freshman point guard. adjust their level of play based Martin Inglesby, who played 36 on the competition. out of the game's 40 minutes, Tho enigmatic Notre Dame contributed only six points, squad held form by following four rebounds. and two assists, 

an embar­rassing 20­point home loss to a Villanova team that had betH! on a livn-ganw los­ing streak with an inspired 73-65 vietory 

but his poise down the stretch allowed Notre Dame to set the tone dur­ing a critical 17-2 run. 
" K e i t h big shots and 


• 
Men's Basketball, at Rutgers, 

Men's and Women's Tennis, ~ 
•Baseball wins season opener
February 5, 7:30 p.m. 
• 
at Rolex National, 
Women's Basketball, 
February 5 ~ see page 18
• ......
at Miami, 

Track and Field, 
Meyo Invitational, ~ •Track posts mixed results 
• 
February 3, 7 p.m. 

Hockey, February 6 see page 16 
vs. Bowling Green, 
•

February 6, 7 p.m. ~ 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 



