

Thursday, February 19, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 95 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• r.numcuLTURAl BEAT 

By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY N "''Writer 
Last night, UniVf)rsity president Father Edward Malloy faced the lire. 
That lire was the voices of the concerned and frustrated stu­dents who feel that Malloy's administration has done little to institute measures to address issues of race and ethnicity on campus. 
Malloy representnd the admin­istration at the second of four lis­tening sessions held by the University Committee on Cultural Diversity last night in the llesburgh Library auditorium. 
The two-hour session proved to be a frank discussion about multi­cultural education, the enrollment and recruitment of minority stu­dmJL'>. administrative accessibility and incidents of prejudice on campus. 
Many students voiced the opin­ion that a communication barrier bPtween the administration and undergraduate community has made it dillicult in the past to dis­cuss multicultural issues. Participants implored Malloy to become more active in what one contributor called "healing diver­sity." 
"We're not trying to say that this all falls on you, but look who you are -it does fall on you," said Stacy Szanto, a sophomore from Walsh Hall. 
As Malloy finished his closing remarks, a sea of students of all races and ethnicities stood before the University president, hands held in prayer, and pleaded with him to attend a student-led forum where a list of suggestions outlin­ing solutions to the problems of campus prejudice would be pre­sented to him. 
The president hesitated momentarily to question reasons for the forum and the environ­ment in which it would be held. 
John Fernandez, the president of La Alianza, told Malloy that such a forum would be "essential for our community" as well as an opportunity for him to hear the . ideas of the students. 
"This is our problem, and now we want to give you our sugges­tions,'' Fernandez said. 
"We are not asking you to make any broad statement; we're only asking for you to be there," Erik Burrell, a senior from Keenan Hall, added. "We're conveying our hearts to you." 
After several moments of deep thought, the president replied that he would attend the forum. 
"All right, I will. So we'll work 
Rep. Roemer 
visits ND class 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
Representative Tim Roemer, D-lnd., spoke about life as a member of Congress and the changing nature of American politics yestetday in a discussion with an American Political Life class. 

"You're in constant motion," said Roemer Congressional life, discussing his typical day of com­mittee, constituent and legislative meetings while Congress is in ses­sion. "You're constantly balancing things, whether it's family and work, constituents and issues or trying to stay in touch with the 

Roemer people so you can respond to 
what they want." 

lie also discussed the nature of the two-year term served by House members, which forces them to be thinking about re-election more often than their counterparts in the Senate. 
"Some issues require taking risks, [to do what is best for the country,]" Roemer said. He believes that the two-year term puts pressure on members of Congress to follow the desire of their constituents, who can quickly elect someone else if they don't like what their representative is doing. Roemer said the efforts to balance demands from constituents, the party and personal beliefs make politicians' choices dillicult. 
"It's not worth it if you can't look yourself in the mirror and say that you expand what is good for the country," he said regarding the pressures for re­election and pleasing his constituents. 
Roemer emphasized the necessity of clean, responsible campaigning in order to bring mor.e people into politics. He noted that qualified people arc not entering the field because of the loss of pri­vacy that accompanies political life and the a,m.ount of money nocessa,ry to succeed. 
"Government is getting stacked with millionaires; it should be that anyone can run and win," he said. "If' we don't get yotmg people involved, we're in trouble. Apathy's a big, big problem. More people need courage to get involved in common sense 
see ~OEMER/page 6 
on a format and a time. I will lis­ten, and seriously consider what you have to say," he said. 
Malloy noted that his hesitation was based on his concern that he would be rendering useless the existing mechanisms of the Univeristy Committee on Cultural Diversity. 
"I don't want to be the micro­manager of the University," he said. 
Malloy began the evening by telling the group about the four aspects of his life which affect his view on University policy. The president referred to his Irish­American heritage, his Catholic education, the time he spent play­ing high school basketball on the urban playgrounds of Washington, D.C., and his work in the Civil Rights movement as aspects which have affected his decision-making on cultural issues. 
Malloy and his father were part of the welcoming committee when the March on Washington entemd the capital in 1963. 
"Anyone who studies history knows that [the march] was a great moment, not just because of the eloquence of Martin Luther King, Jr., but because of the 
see MALLOY I page 4 

• ELECTIONS '98 

SMC elects class officers for 1998-99 
Junior class votes en masse; freshmen candidates win with­out opposition 
By SHANA'E TATE News Writer 
Saint Mary's students are fin­ished with elections. 
Yesterday, all three class elec­tions and the Hesidence Hall Association executive board elec­tion were completed -no runoffs are required. 
Seventy-one percent of the junior class participated in yester­day's elections which determined next year's senior class executive board. The class of 1999 elected Madeline Carpinelli as president, Betsy Gemmer as vice president, Whitney Conrad as secretary and Becky Deitle as treasurer. 
The elected ticket hopes to cre­ate consta·n t communication between the Career and Counseling Office and the seniors, and are planning to have an on­campus and off-campus newslet­ter. 
"Additionally, we hope to initiate· a class farewell retreat next year," said Carpinelli. 
All three of the tickets were very impressed with the voter turnout. "I was excited with the amount of participation by our class. I believe it shows a lot about our class," Carpinelli said. 
The Carpinelli ticket received 61 percent of the votes followed by the Sharon Zielmanski ticket with 20 percent. Finally, the Colleen Thomas ticket garnered 16 per­cent. 
"It was a lot of fun campaign­ing," Carpinelli said. "All the can­didates were excited." 
"We congratulate the winners and look forward to next year," said Kelly Van Overbeke, vice presidential candidate. "We all plan to be involved next year." 
The class of 2000 had two tick­ets running for the top leadership positions of the junior executive board. The class voted Angie Little as president, Julie Duba as vice president, Penelope Kistka as sec­retary and Michelle Samreta as treasurer. 
The Little ticket won with 71 percent of the votes, while the 
Erin Hall ticket received 26 per­cent of the votes. Just under 50 percent of the elass cast ballots for its junior board. 
"We are excited and honored that our class chose us to repre­sent them next year. Knowing what works and what doesn't, we look forward to implementing our goals for a successful junior year," Little stated. 
Hall says that she may take a break from student government next year. However, she is unde­cided at this point. 
Current freshman class presi­dent Carolyn Kelley was re-elected to serve as sophomore class presi­dent. Kelley's running mates included Katie Poynter for vice president, Julia Malczynski for secretary, and Alyson Leatherman for treasurer. 
The four formed the only ticket that campaigned for the positions. They won with 86 percent of the votes while 14 percent of voters abstained. Only 20 percent of the class of 2001 voted. 
"Our main concern ... is to listen and respond to the needs of our class. I am confident that our tick­et will successfully lead our class to the year 2001," Kelley said. 

Class of 2001 Class of 2000 Class of 1999 
Zielmanski 19 6
Abstain 2.5% · % 
49.8% voter turn-out

20. 1% voter turn-out 71.1% voter turn-out 
~
................................................~-------5~-­
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, February 19, 1998 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Changing 
Tradition? 
Tradition. The word Kristi Klitsch 
itself epitomizes Notre Assisranr News Edimr 
Dame. 
Speakers at pep rallies, alumni, parents and 
"Monk" Malloy all speak oftradition as some 
sacrnd gem. Tradition gives the Notre Dame 
family the right to proudly proclaim "WE ARE 
ND," to stand at football games and to sway in 
synchronization to the alma mater. 
Whether the tradition is found in the ram­
page of l'igTostal or in the glistening shadow of 
Mary atop the Golden Dome, it is an ever-pre­
sent spirit on the campus. Men in plaid pants 
visit every football weekend because it is tradi­
tion. The football team salutes the student 
body at the conclusion of every home game 
beeause it is tradition. 
Yet all over campus changes are occurring. 
It seems that these changes are inconsistent 
with Notre Dame tradition, and mere results of 
a preoccupation with money and prestige. 
Take for instance Notre Dame Stadium. It 
was christened in 1930 as the "House that 
Hockne Built." That stadium had tradition. 
From the thousands of red bricks which 
formed it-; structure to the Four Horsemen who 
honorably played on its field, the stadium was 
the home of Notre Dame football. From this 
structure stemmed the fight song, the 1812 
Overture and the ushers in yellow jackets. 
Although the structure of the stadium 
remains untouched, the red brick is now 
masked with concrete. The gallant concourses 
now overpower the wooden bleachers and the 
additional 20,000 seats now block the view of 
the inspirational Touchdown Jesus mosaic. 
The stadium might be bigger, newer and 
"better," but it is not Notre Dame. 
The Dome bears resemblance to the new 
Notre Dame Stadium. What has happened to 
the Dome? When Father Sarin founded this 
institution over 150 years ago, his vision was 
an administration building crowned with a 
golden dome. The Dome was not only the rest­
ing place of Mary, yet it also functioned as the 
University's administration building. 
I low many students walked up those steps 
during campus visit'> in awe and bewilder­
ment? 
Those students now have to walk into Grace 
llall with their questions about admissions, 
classes and finances. Is the anxiety still pre­
sent'? Is this the same feeling as walking into 
the Golden Dome? 
Why was tradition lost at the expense of ren­
ovation? 
The loss of tradition is also epitomized in the 
activities of this coming weekend, Junior 
Parent'> Weekend. 
This year, the JPW brunch was changed 
from its traditional time Sunday morning to an 
earlier hour. 
The reason: the Notre Dame basketball team 
was ofl'ered a chance to be tnlevised in a pro­
motional game. The athletic department felt 
that the events were too close together, and 
that problems with parking would ensue. Do 
you think that they would postpone the game 
to accommodate thousands of tuition-paying 
parent-;'? 
Clearly tradition has been lost and change 
has prevailed. Yet tradition is still hailed as the 
foundation of the school. Is this hypocrisy or 
merr, ignorance'? 
It is not too late to recapture the tradition 
that lies on this campus, but it must happen 
soon, bnfore "WE AHE ND" becomes only 
empty words. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Allison Koenig  Emmett Malloy  
David Zachry  Graphics  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Melissa Weber  
Tom Enright  Production  
Sports  Heather Hogan  
Anthony Bianco  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Meg Kroener  
Kelly Brooks  

The Oh.<erver (USPS 599 ·2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the AssociJted Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


r--~utside the Dome 
"--._,,'\,' ___,.;___\, ' ·· \..( J Compiled from U-Wtre reports 
Stanford students protest Nike Corporation at career fair 
STANFORD, Calif. 

Students distributed provocative fliers in protest of Nike on Friday at the Liberal Arts Career and Internship Fair. Yet a cordial conver­sation was all that ensued between the protesters and Nike representa­tives. 
Nike declined to make an official statement on their complaints but distributed informational pamphlets explaining Nike's policy. The demon­strators were protesting the compa­

ny's alleged mistreatment of employ­ees in Southeast Asia. 
Associate drama professor Rush Rehm, who organized the dozen pro­testers, accused Nike's public rela­tions department of glossing over the issues. 
"They spend a lot of money looking slick," Rehm said. Rehm added that Nike can afford to pay Tiger Woods millions to wear a Nike hat, yet the 
Three Stanford College Republicans were on-site in counter­protest of the protesters. "We decid­ed to make signs and launch a coun­terprotest in support of Nike and what we believe are fair and even generous practices," said junior Ryan Parks, president of the College Republicans. 
Parks' group had signs that read "Nike Saves Lives" and "Amnesty 
International Starves Children." 
"Surveys that say workers are dis­gruntled and unsatisfied have been shown to be faulty, since they did not take a scientific random sampling of workers and asked leading questions at the end of the work day," Parks said. 
"Nike provides over 500,000 jobs worldwide," he added. "When Nike enters a nation to manufacture prod­ucts, the wages increase and the poverty level decreases." 
According to a Nov. 22 article in The New York Times, over 450,000 Southeast Asian workers, many of them teenage girls, are reportedly paid $1.60 a day. 
In additifm, according to an in}er­nal study recently leaked by a dis­gruntled Nike employee, the workers in a Ho Chi Minh City factory are exposed to dangerous levels of car­cinogens. 
•UCLA 
Drunken students damage van 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
A Free Ride van was reportedly damaged by three drunken students late Saturday evening outside the UCLA campus. Free Ride is a service provided by the university to offer inebriated students a safe ride home from local bars. UCLA student Brian Pierce reportedly shattered the window of the Free Ride van with his buttocks when he was pushed by fellow student Don Whiting while riding back from a bar where they had both been drinking heavi­ly. University security was on hand quickly to aid in the situation. Security spokesperson Betsy Kahl commented that all three students had been drinking heavily and will most likely be called before the dean of discipline, Mike Moran, to explain their conduct. She further commented, "I do believe this is the funniest situation I have ever heard of in my 10 years on campus security. I am just glad that nobody was seriously injured." Andy Stanley was the only student injured in the incident when broken glass fell all over him and cut his finger. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA Police charge students with fraud 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
Four university students -two of whom are Virginia football players -turned themselves in to authorities late Monday after University Police issued a warrant for their arrest on credit card fraud charges. Second-year College students Joe Loscudo, Terrance Williams, Michael Greene and Joe Hydzewski were released Monday on separate $2,500 bonds. Williams, a redshirt freshman, plays defensive back for the Cavaliers. Greene also serves as a defensive back. According to University Police spokeswoman Colleen Murphy, the four accused students allegedly stole a credit card from th~purse of a student visiting Hranae House at Travers Residence Hall Jan. 23, where two of the accused students live. Police are not releasing the credit card holder's name. Murphy said the unidentified woman left her purse in a lounge in Hranac House for a short time while, the accused stu­dents were present in the room. 
• BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
Alleged arsonist student released 
BOSTON, Mass. 

The Suffolk County district attorney's office Friday dropped its ease against Erin Kiernieki, the Boston University junior charged with starting a building fin) in Allston last June. After an eight-month investigation. the district attorney conceded that there was insuflicinnt evi­dence to take Ackerman to trial. For the College of Communication film major. nothing could have eome as more of a relief. "It was awesome," Kiernicki said. "It was so good. I felt like a new person." The surprise deeision marked the end of a nightmare battle to prove Kiernicki's innocence. As she and her roommate walked home from a party in the early morning hours of June 22, she was stopped by police, taken to the scene of the fire and arrested for arson. Despite a list of 15 people willing to vouch for Kiernicki's innocence, the prosecutors pressed forward, and the threat of jail time became very reaL If convicted, Kiernicki would have faced up to five years in prison. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Student falls down waterfall 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Rescuers today were expected to resume the search for a UA student who fell down an 80-foot waterfall at Bruce Pass Sunday when he jumped into the water to save his friend's dog. Searchers have spent the past two days using heli­copters, mounted posses and probes to lind Mathew Grillith, an economies senior whose 22nd birthday is today. lie is a member of Delta Chi fraternity. Griflith's friends and family were at the falls northeast of Tucson at sunrise yesterday, before rescuers arrived about 8 a.m. Search teams found the dog, "Scudo," dead yesterday but have ynt to find any sign of Griffith, said Sgt. Paul Stinson, a Pima County Sheriffs Department spokesman. Stinson said a series of undnrwater shelves down river and intense currents due to rncent snow and rain have made finding Griffith diflicult. "It's possible that he's trapped under one of those shelves," he said. Griffith jumped into the river after his friend's dog went into the water about 4:10p.m. Sunday. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher~ forecasl for daylime condilions and high lempcra!Ures 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 19. 
lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
./-....................~-· .. 
r--H L 
i 

Thursday 4, 39 35 Friday ~ 42 29 
4, 47 32 ~49 33 
H L B ESI [Til 0 . tzj 8 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT: CLOUDY CLOUDY 
VIa A8sOC/8tttd Press 
na e1m 62 45 hicago 40 32 Jac son 54 40 Auslin 68 45 Cincinatti 46 37 Omaha 40 24 Bloomington 44 34 Cleveland 42 34 Philadelphia 58 44
4,<J,Qc8~Q ~ ~ u 
Boslon 44 36 Fargo 34 28 Salem 52 38
Showers T·slorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Buffulo 42 32 Houston 68 46 Youngstown 43 34
VIB ASSOCIBI9d Press Graph/CSNet 

Thursday, February 19, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• fACULTY SENATE 

Athletic facilities director dispels faculty fears 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE senate chair Michael Deltefsen Associate News Editor and benefit committee chair Jeff 
Humors of a proposed elimina­tion of separate faculty exercise and locker room facilities in the Joyce Center circled the table at the Faculty Senate's meeting last night until Michael Danch, direc­tor of athletic facilities, assured members that no such plans existed. 
"At no time did I attend a meeting that said there would be an elimination of a faculty locker or exercise room," Danch said. 
Membm·s of the Faculty Senate had expressed their concerns to Bergstrand about the possibility of having to share exercise space with students after the new reconfiguration of the Joyce Center. These concerns were punctuated with the added pos­sibility of reduced space for fac­ulty use and the possibility of having locker rooms and exer­cise rooms in different buildings. 
"We could be bench pressing with students we just flunked," benefit committee member Ralph Chami said before hearing from Danch. "What if they spot­ted you while you were lifting?" 
Part of the worry stemmed 
from an existing plan that would reduce faculty locker room space by about half. Danch, however, assured the benefit committee that the plan was not currently being considered by those in charge of the Joyce Center reconfiguration. 
"This plan does not satisfy what we are looking for in terms of faculty areas, other varsity sports facilities, anything," Danch said. "I always under­stood that students sharing room with faculty is a concern. The time the faculty spends in the exercise facilities is a good social time; we understand that you talk about things that you do not necessarily want to share with students." 
The only Joyce Center recon­figurations that have been approved or funded as of now are the building of new offices in the gym above Gate 3 and mov­ing the women's varsity basket­ball team to the space vacated by RecSports with the opening of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center last Saturday, Danch said. 
"We've converted a lot of areas to accommodate not only the growth of men's sports but the addition of women's sports in past years," Danch said. "What we are looking at is a work in progress. We are in the beginning stages of this. But there has always been a consid­eration for faculty space." 
The rumor that faculty space 



WHO: Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors 
IWHY: You want to run for class office or off-campus senator or off-campus co-president 
WHAT: Pick up your candidate information packet 
WHEN: By Friday, Feb. 20 
WHERE: Student Gov't Office (2nd Floor Lafortune) 
~~~~~~~ 
brought to you by: 
Student Government 

THE PAN-AFRICAN CULTURAL CENTER 
Presents: 

FACING HISTORY AND OURSELVES: THE PROBLEMATIC OF SLAVERY AND REPARATIONS 
SPEAKING: 





DR.CLARENCEJ.MUNFORD 
Professor of History University of Guelph, Ontario, Canada 
Author of: RACE AND REPARATIONS: ABLACK RESPECTIVE FOR THE 2ts' CENTURY 
Friday, February 20, 1998 @ 12:00 Noon Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune 
In Celebration; of Black History Month with Support of Student Activities, NDICBD, Salon of Friendship, Multi-Cultural Executive Council and ND Black Alumni Association. 
would be eliminated apparently came from an unnamed Joyce Center staff member. But Danch's appearance before the senate served to assuage any existing apprehension concern­ing faculty exercise space. 
"I usually do not respond to rumors," Danch said, "and I am not sure where this one came from. But it is only a rumor." 
In other senate news: 
• The members of the acade­mic affairs committee discussed the possibility of a library recon­figuration to meet the concerns of graduate students and faculty members, adding that they think the existing library places more 
I I I I I I I I I 
focus on undergraduates. 
• 
The senate discussed a pro­posal from the academic affairs committee to increase Notre Dame's ranking in U.S. News & World Report. Among the pro­posals were to decrease class size, increase endowment fund­ing and encourage more visiting professorships. The committee hopes to solidify long-range plans before the next senate meeting. 

• 
The senate observed a moment of silence for former benefit committee chair Kathleen DeLanghe, who died because of surgery complica­tions on Jan. 31. 


I I I I I 

INTRODUCING ~;f?isSeoDEviANTs 
1 

OFF 


Educating and entertaining 
videos covering more than 30 
difficuh: college courses. 
L.....~ It still is. 

I I I I I I 

Limit 3 per customer : 
1L--------------------------------------J 
----~---­
Thursday, February 19, 1998

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
Malloy 
continued from page 1 
ambiance of the community at that event." 
Malloy ref'errml to himself as an "inveterate integrationist" and expressml to tho student.<> that his notion of community involved understanding and friendship. 
Several student.<> openly shared their own personal stories of raeism and inequality with the president and conveyed the notion that multicultural educa­tion has yet to lind a place on this campus. 
l'artir.i pants gave exam pies, such as the ofTending "Men About Campus" comic strip which ran in Tlw Observer on Oct. 31. of igrwrann~ in tlw com­munity which prove that cultural mlucation is rwedml. 
"Notre Dame doesn't foster multicultural education in tlw dassrooms," said Liberty Jones, a Pasquerilla East senior. 
Stud1~nts raised concern about thn lack of a Latino studies pro­gram and talked a great deal about implementing a mandatory multicultural seminar in the First Ynar of Studios eurrieulurn. 
Thn notion that education should not be limited to the class­room. but sprnad to thn rosidnnce halls as wPII as to the faculty and stan·. was another idea supported by rnany in the group. 
Malloy attempted to handle as many cornrnnnts and questions as he could and gave everyone tlw opportunity to voice their opinions. Malloy sharnd with the group his own frustrations over the course of the 1wnning. 
"I don't want to see anyone in pain or uncomfortable, but I. also don't want to give you false hopns," hn told the group. "We ean't ehangn the Notm Dame cui­turn overnight; we can't. 
"One of the rea<>ons we set up this committee," Malloy stated, "is that we want results that lead to concrete reeornmendations, and come to desirable and reli­able conclusions." 
The topic of minority enroll­ment and recruitment also played a large role in the ses.sion. Many stu(hmts told the president that it would be diflicult for them to talk to a prospective minority studnnt without speaking of the racial tensions that the minority community on campus feels. 
"llow can students of color tell sm1iors to come here when the University doesn't foster diversi­ty?" questioned one student. 
Malloy statNl his dcl'p concern that without freshmen to help continue this type of dialogue, the progress the audience had made would be lost. 

"The worst thing that could happen would be to lose o~r minority enrollment," Malloy said in response. . 
Malloy also fielded questiOns and comments about his han­dling of the "Men About Campus" eomie strip. Group members expressed their disappoi?tment with the deeision not to Issue a statement in opposition to the comic strip. 
"Father Malloy, you are God on this eampus as far as I'm con­cerned," said Amerkan studies professor Claire Joly, "and if st~­denl<> can spend four years at this institution and never hear you take a stand, it becomes frustrat­ing to teach them in the class­room." 
The partieipants shared with the president their belief that the people who needed the mo.st edu­cation on multieultural Issues, the white student population, wero not in attendance. 
Less than a dozen white stu­dents were present at the ses­sion. 
Malloy ended the session by apologizing to the group for the things they had suffered throu~h. but asked that the commumty realize that his position as policy advocate does not allow him to simply make new standards. 
"I am happy to be an advoeate, because I want to sec Notre Dame move in the direetion you've advocated:" Mall~y said. "llowcvcr, I cant prom1se you more than I can deliver." 
The president applauded the work of the committee, and promised to recommit to some of the concerns raised. 
"I can say that I believe in the school you would like to see. We face ignorance and deliber~te unwclcomeness," Malloy contm­ued. "If we can put a stop to that, then my pledge to you is that I will dedicate myself to these pro­posals." . 
The University Committee on Cultural Diversity, which has been functioning in its present form since March 1997, brings together students, faculty a!1d administrators to seek proaet1ve solutions to the problems of racism and prejudice at Notre Dame. 
The next planned listening ses­sion will feature professor Patricia O'Hara, vice president for Student NTairs, on March 24. O'IIara has been asked to listen to students about diversity in stu­dent activities and msidenee life. 

Tuesday, February 24 • 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
nckets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium. open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Adult tickets also available at all ~~ ticket centers including Orbit Music & L.S. Ayres. 
To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272·7979 
To purchase online: http://www.licketmaster.com 

This program is supported by Arts Midwest, a regional arts organization serving America's heartland, In partnership with the Natlonar Endowment of the Arts. 

• MULTICUlTURAl BEAT 


SMC names contest winners 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
NewsWrirer 
In the ongoing effort to increase the awareness of other races and cultures at Saint Mary's College, st~~ents. were encouraged to partiCipate m the first annual Spirit of Blackness Essay Contest. 
Last night, winners of the con­test were announeed and read their essays to those in atten­dance. The essay contest was sponsored by the Sisters of Nefertiti and co-sponsored by both The Avenue, a Saint Mary's creative writing publication, 
and  the  Student  Academic  
Council.  
Students  were  asked  to  

respond to the que~tion_. "H~w has the lack of racial diversity affected your experience at Saint Mary's College?" Additional criteria for the essay included the use of personal reflections to strengthen the author's argument as well an attempt to promote an aware­ness of the African-American culture in the Saint Mary's com­munity. 
"We received 20 essays and had to narrow it down to four before passing them on to the judges. It was so diffieult because each essay had its own unique qualities," said Tysus Jackson, president of the Sisters of Nefertiti. 
Judges included Saint Mary's College president Marilou Eldred, political science profes­sor Mark Belanger and history professor Kelly Hamilton, who also serves as the advisor for the Sisters of Nefertiti organization. 
Jennifer Warner, the fourth­place winner of the contest and a Saint Mary's College senior, was the first to read her essay. Warner's entry foeused on the lack of diversity at Saint Mary's College and the detriment it is causing. Also highlighted in her essay was the lack o~ a multicu.l­tural core class, wluch she smd sent a message that the voicns of women of eulture are not impor­tant. 


"The ass_umption is being made that what is non-white does not matter," Warner said in her essay. 
The third-place winner of the contest was Kelli Harrison. a. Saint Mary's senior whose essay focused on how through the help of a friend and understanding professors she was able to elimi­nate much of what she referred to as her "ignorance of other races." Harrison claimed that much of this ignorance eame from a non-diverse community and a college that was also laek­ing in diversity. 
"College is supposed to broad­en your views, not narrow them," Manuela Hernandez, the second-place winner, said in her essay. She also cited the laek of diversity among the student body at Saint Mary's. 
"It amazed me to hear about the 'bubble' that some people called their hmnr." HrrnandPz said. 
According to Ilernandez, the lack of diversity at Saint Mary's helped her to become rnon; of a leader. She said that shn found an understanding of her culture within her Hispanic group of friends. 
Finally, sophomore Angela Little, the first-place winner of the essay eontost, spoko of tlw battle against eonforrnity that minorities faee at Saint Mary's College. 
"We have the ability to bc1:ome a diverse campus," Little said in her essay that incorporated portions of the Saint Mary's mission statomenl. 
"I think it is all rnally heartf11lt. I just sat "down and wrote it and it came to me," Little said of h1~r 
essay. . . 
Little also liked the Idea of the essay contest as a means of opening the eyes of the .c<~mp~s eommunity to the lack of diversi­
ty. 
"The essay contest is a grnat opportunity to g<~t ~very.one. in campus involved 111 thmkmg about these issues," she said. 
Mall to: AmariCIIn Univanlty Special Programs Advising Center 4400 Massachusetts Avenue, NW 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY Washington, DC 20016-8080 
WABHINO"TON, DC Fax: 202-885-2542 PLEASE SEND ME MORE INFORMATION ON AMERICAN UNIVERSITY'S SUMMER PROGRAMS. 

Zip 
APSU 


Thursday, February 19, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq seeks new ties with Iran 
TEHRAN. Iran 
Iraq's foreign minister on Wednesday 
made his second visit to Iran in a month, 
leading efforts to improve ties with Iran 
amid the standoff over U.N. weapons inspec­
tions. Iranian President Mohammad 
Khatami urged Iraq to implement U.N. 
Security Council resolutions "so as to deprive 
America of any excuse and pretext," Iranian 
television reported. Khatami said in his talks 
with Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed 
Saeed al-Sahhaf that a U.S. military attack 
on Iraq would be "detrimental to the 
region," but did not elaborate, according to 
the television report. He said Iran will con­
tinue its effort as head of the Organization of 
the Islamic Conference to resolve the Iraqi 
crisis through diplomacy, said the television 
report monitored by the British Broadcasting 
Corporation. Al-Sahhaf, arriving later in the 
Jordanian capital Amman, said his country 
hoped that U.N. Secretary-General Kofi 
Annan would be able to broker a compro­
mise. "We hope the secretary-general of the 
United Nations will bring [initiatives] to 
Baghdad to be discussed, studied well and to 
se11 if we can reach a balanced. well-made 
solution to the crisis," al-Sahhaf said. "Iraq 
and its leadership will listen to what the U.N. 
secretary-general carries with him and it 
will inform him of the Iraqi ideas and posi­
tively interar.t in order to reach a balanced 
solution and let us be optimistic for that." 
Pope urges 'atmosphere of welcoming' for refugees 
VATICAN CITY 

Pope John Paul II, in his annual Lenten mes­sage Wednesday, urged more help for refugees and migrants searching for work. The pontiff mentioned no country or leaders by name in call­ing for a greater "atmos­phere of welcoming" for 
the jobless and dispossessed. "This is increasingly necessary in confronting today's diverse forms of distancing our­selves from others," the pope said in his message for Lent, the Catholic season dedi­cated to penitence and reflection. "This is profoundly evidenced in the problem of millions of refugees and exiles, in the phe­nomenon of racial intolerance as well as intolerance toward the person whose only 'fault' is a search for work and better living conditions outside his own country," John Paul said. Archbishop Paul Cordes, who heads a Vatican charity organization, said the pope was "trying to put pressure on the political class so that these persons don't get kicked out of the countries in which they seek refuge." 
RMiftiMfNiWJIPM 
AMEX: Dow 688.50 +1.07 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1715.73

8451.06 
+12.29 
NYSE: 
537.23 

~ 
+4.44 


S&P 500: 

Composite
I I 

1032.06 Volume: +52.55 +9.30 610,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

rllMl!.tltlll.: IICI:\EB ~H1 CliAtllli~ i i:iAitll l!BICE 
STEELCASF.INC scs 20.09 5.625 2.25 IIOMEUSA INC 115H 17.16 1.485 2.4375 ANM.OG DEVICLii ADI 14.4B 4.000 23.56 Rl )fi[RTSON-CE Rllll l.i.4K 1.222 112.875 COMSAT CQ 11.50 3.250 23.56 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

PENN TRAFFIC PNF 10.39 0.500 .3125 UNIFI INC UFI 10.32 4.116 6.50 CRYOLIFE CRY 9.6R 1.500 34.93 STARTEK INC SRT 9.09 1.000 12.87 ENVIRON ELEMENTS EEC 8.51 0.500 9.87 


Top cabinet IneiDbers face protesters 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Facing tough questions from America's heartland, the Clinton administration's foreign policy team tried to make the case today for 
U.S. military action against Iraq. Secretary of State Madeleine Albright called Iraq's disputed weapons arsenal the "greatest secu­rity threat we face." 
Speaking over persistent jeers at a town meeting at Ohio State University, Albright said President Clinton prefers a diplomatic way out of the crisis but stressed, "It must be a true, not a phony, solution." 
Joining Albright on a red carpeted-stage in the cen­ter of a basketball arena were Defense Secretary William Cohen and National Security Adviser Samuel Berger. They were inter­rupted several times by chants from a noisy audi­ence that included students and faculty as well as uni­formed members of the mil­itary and veterans. 
"Saddam [Hussein] has delayed, he has duped, he had deceived the inspectors from the very first day on the job," Cohen said in a prepared statement before the three took questions in a 90-minute session tele­vised live by CNN and mod­erated by two of the net­work's anchors. 
It is Saddam's refusal to permit unrestricted U.N. inspections of his nation's weapons arsenal that is at the heart of the dispute. 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan was heading to Baghdad on Thursday to try to reach a diplomatic settle­ment. 
Some of the protesters held aloft a banner that said, "No War," but one caller identifying himself as a U.S. soldier on duty in Germany said he supported Clinton's approach. 
"If a soldier's life needs to be lost let it start with mine," the soldier said by telephone. His remark drew a round of applause from the arena audience. 
Callers from as far away as the Persian Gulf and Europe probed for U.S. intentions and questioned the wisdom of taking action against Iraq. 
The arena was only about half-filled, and some pro­testers shouted at the administration officials when they didn't like their answers. Others cheered them. "What we are doing is so all of you can sleep at night," Albright told a pro­tester. 

Another questioner asked why the United States does not go directly after Saddam. 
Replied Cohen, "We do not see the need to carry out a large land campaign in order to topple Saddam Hussein. Our mission is to get the inspectors back. If they can't get back, to make sure he can't consti­tute or reconstitute this threat." 
When one questioner said as many as 100,000 Iraqi civilians could be killed in an attack, Albright replied, ''I'm willing to make a bet that we care more about the Iraqi people than Sad dam Hussein does." 
Berger sought to frame the dispute in broad, strate­gic terms. He said the world could not afford to allow Iraq to flout the will of the international community. 
"The lesson of the 20th 

century  is,  and  we've  
learned  through  harsh  
experience,  the  only  

answer to aggression and outlaw behavior is firm­ness," Berger said. 
"He will use those weapons of mass destruc­tion again, as he has 10 times since 1983," Berger said. 

Associated Press 

crew· Two walked to 
called for help, another was found walking on · a road. 
The fourth's parachute caught in a tree and he suf­fered head and neck injuries. 1---~ All four were taken to the hos-> ·. 

pita!; their conditions were.not.·•~~~~­immediately known. · · The B-1B bomberwas 
c;>ut of Pyess Air nearAbUenl:l, T down near Ma • five miles northeast ·· . 
the Ohio River, said First Elliott of Langley Air Foree Virginia. 
The bomber was not being dis­patched to the Persian Gulf 
\,.-----l~ri!II~·!IIIJ!~III!II""I!IIJ---j 
77~~------~. 

''I heard ifroaring and looked toward Marion,~· he said. "By the 
time it camf'lJnto sight, every­
.thing was qui~t. lt was gliding .at about a 20-degree angle." The B-UfLancer bomber, one ·of three lt).ng-ran heavy ·r · 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 19, 1998 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Senate tackles book prices, amendments 
By TIM LOGAN News Writer 
The discussion at Student 
Sonate last night ranged from 
bookstore prices to amend­
ments to the Student Union 
constitution to growing pains 
from the opening week of the 
new Holfs Center. 
Morissey senator Matt Szabo, chair of the residence life committee, presented the committee's findings on used book prices at the Hammes Bookstore. Students can resell their books for 50 and 75 per­cent of the purchase cost of new and used books, respec­tively, according to Bob Thompson, assistant director of the bookstore. 
But that never happens, Szabo explained. because the bookstore usually does not know what texts will be used in the next semester until aftl!r the books are sold back. Less than 40 pereent of faculty members submit their book lists before the buy-back peri­od begins, according to Thompson. As a result, most books are bought back at less than one-third of their original purchase price. 
To alleviate this problem, the senate resolved to send a letter to the Faeulty Senate and to each of the University's colleges, informing them of the situation and asking that students remind their profes­sors to post book lists early eaeh semest1~r. 
The oversight committee proposed a series of amend­ments to the Student Union constitution. Sixteen of the 21 suggested amendments were passed by a unanimous vote; thn other five were held for further discussion. Most of the amendments dealt with the darilkution and adjustment of the constitution to resolve problems that surfaend in the past year. 
Among the delilrred amend­ments was a proposal to stan­dardize tho method of select­ing the recipient of the Irish Clover award, given annually to a student who has con­tributed to the Notre Dame 
I
. 

community. Senators 
expressed concerns about who 
would select the recipient. A 
vote will be held on this 
amendment in corning weeks. 
Another failed amendment 
suggested changes regarding 
the separation of powers 
between the Student Senate 
and the Office of the 
President. 
In other senate news: 
• Breen-Phillips senator Andrea Kavoosi voiced con­cern about the use of the Rolfs Sports Hecreation Center by varsity teams. Parts of the facility, which had been set specifically set aside for non­varsity athletes, were blocked off for varsity workouts, she said. Senators agreed to look into this matter with residents of their dorms to see if the trend continues. 
"Everyone should be able to use (the center] when they want," Kavoosi said. 
• 
Many senators noted the dress code limitations at the Holfs Center, which include the prohibition of tank tops, hats and dark-soled running shoes. These restrictions are unique to the building and are not concerns in the Hockne Memorial or Joyce Center. 

• 
Student body president Matt Griffin announced that the student activities fee would increase another $10, making the total fee $65. Fifty percent of the extra funds will go directly to clubs and orga­nizations. while the other half will go into the general alloca­tion fund for dispersal throughout student activities. The change will take effect during the 1998-99 academic year. 

"I think the student activity fee increase is much needed and will allow the Student Union to continue to bring its activities to the student body," said student body secretary Mark !Iiggins. 

• 
Sarah Grunow announced that student government will host a series of "dummy work­shops" to teach students in areas such as auto mainte­nance, cooking and massage therapy, among others. 






How Would You Score? 
.,-GRE " 
"" ........ ,,"' LSAT GMAT '"", 
, MCAT CPA TOEFL. ' 
Take a Free Test Drive 
and find out! 
February 14th, Saturday 9am-12pm 
Sponsored by the Notre 
Dame Pre-Law 
Society 

University of Notre Dame 
Call today to reserve your seat! 
•:ua'''~·
1·800-KAP-TEST www.kaplan.com 
SMC elects new RHA officials 
By ARIANN BUTLER News Writer 
Gina Guerreso, Mary Ellen Blumreich, Kat Rademacher, and Jennifer Appleton com­prise this year's newly elected Residence Hall Association executive board. 
The ticket ran unopposed and won 80 percent of the votes. Seven percent voted against the ticket and 13 per­cent abstained. 
This is the first year RHA held elections on the same day as class elections. RHA hoped holding the elections on the same day would increase voter participation for both elec­tions. 
Voter turnout was not improved, however. 
''I'm not disappointed because the ticket was very qualified, although I would like to see more interest occur in the future," said Barbara Nolan, who was in charge of the HHA elections. 
Part of the lack of voter turnout was attributed to the location of the tables where ballots were cast. 
Due to the Winter Olympics 

Roemer 
continued from page 1 
issues. 
"Hope, miracle, wonder, that's what this country is all about. When good young people get involved, and when we demand change, those words will count in America's future." 
Roemer, a Democrat, repre­sents Indiana's Third District, which includes South Bend and Notre Dame. He was first elected in 1990 and began his campaign for a fifth term on Feb. 2. 
The Congressman grew up in Mishawaka and received mas­ter's and doctorate degrees in international relations from Nntn• Danu·. 

festivities in the dining hall, the elections were held on the RNA Election McCandless side of the dining hall rather Guerreso Ticket 
than the LeMans side, ~---------------1 

and this caused some confusion among stu­dents. Another cause of confusion for stu­dents was determining which poll was for which election. 
Bridget Sullivan, the HHA school spirit chairwoman, wishes 
luck in the upcoming year. 
"One of their challenges will be to keep attendance high at events," Sullivan said. 
Guerreso concurred with Sullivan's remarks. 
"Getting people more involved and keeping them involved, as well as imple­menting everyone's ideas, will be a challenge next year," she said. 
"We hope to accomplish all of our platform goals, and we want the residents to know we're here for them," Guerreso added. 
"Overall. we want to gBt more people involved in HilA and hall councils and work on social programs in the resi­dence halls," she said. 
Blurnreich, the new HilA vice president, agreed. 
"We are very excited about leading HHA next year. We want to promote residence hall spirit and improve the social aspects of residenee living with more events on campus. We are looking into changing weekend quiet hours as well as working more with Dulloway's. It will be a year of change and growth." 

WANTED: MARKETING ASSISTANT MANAGER "The Observer is looking for an Assistant Marketing Manager to help with coordinating the full color advertising spreads that appear regularly such as 'The Bar Page', 'The Map Page', etc. This is a PAID position and we are seeking Sophomore Business Majors. Contact Greg Szilier @4-1695 for more information." Deadline: Saturday, February 21 
ner ~~ flin '~"Ador ~~ ~ 90 A-Nebula Award Win~~MU ~uQ~ Writers' Guild of America Award t)q;r~, for Most Outstanding Teleplay · Edgar Allen Poe Award Winner Living Legend Award Bram Stoker Award W1nner  
Harlan Ellison  
Tonight in Washington Hall at 8:00pm Brought to you by Sophontore Literary Festival & e We increase brain power  


Thursday, February 19, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page? 

Albright seeks support for bombs 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE 

It's back to the classroom for former professor Madeleine Albright, who as secretary of state is trying to make a case for threatening to bomb Iraq to drastically reduce its stores of dangerous weapons. 
Albright is making back-to­hack appearances at Tennessee State University here and at the University of South Carolina. She will be working smaller audiences than at the "town meeting" Wednesday at Ohio State University where angry critics at times drowned her out. along with Defense Secretary William Cohen and Sandy Berger, President Clinton's national security adviser. 
Albright, a professor of international affairs and head of the women in foreign policy program at Georgetown University during her academic career, will have more of a chance for a dialogue with the students than she had in the Ohio State basketball field house. 
It is a setting she prefers, giv­ing her a chance. she hopes. for an exchange of views with both critics and supporters of Clinton's threat to bomb Iraq if President Saddam Hussein does not open his palaces and weapons sites to U.N. inspec­tors. 
The protesters at Ohio State were far outnumbered by sup­porters and the undecided at St. John arena. But from the outset, when she began with the assertion. "Iraq is a long 
Save the Ea~th. Recycle Th.e Obsei""Vel"". 




Juniors 
Spend Some Quality Time. .. 

The Dining Room ofthe Morris Inn on Campus is open for breakfast, lunch and dinner seven days a week. Share a Notre Dame dining tradition with your parents this weekend! 
• • .While Enjoying some Quality Dining. 

Calll-2020 
For Reservations and 


Information 

way from Ohio, but what hap­pens there matters here," Albright, Cohen and Berger were confronted by dozens of protesters who jeered their statements and sometimes drowned them out. 
Others rose to the micro­phones with polite but sharp questions about U.S. goals in Iraq. 
"I appreciate all of you com­ing," Berger said at the end of the 90-minute session. "I appreciate most of you listen­ing." 
The majority of the students, faculty and others in the audi­ence did listen. And Berger summed up the administra­tion's case this way after saying he preferred a diplomatic solu­tion to the dispute with Iraq: 
"There are some things worth fighting for. These include fighting aggression, fighting those who threaten their neigh­bors, and to make this world safer and more secure for our children and yours." 
U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan is going to Baghdad in search of a diplomatic solution where Russia, France and the Arab League all have failed. Albright cautioned that the Clinton administration would not budge from its demand that the U.N. weapons commission have unlimited access in Iraq. 
"It must be a true, not a phony, solution," she said, while Cohen and Berger offered assurances there would not be "significant losses among the 30,000 American troops in the Persian Gulf in the event of an attack." 
Many in the half-filled Ohio State sports arena appeared unswayed by the comments. 
Dozens shouted out: "One, two, three, four, we don't want your racist war." Others held up anti-war banners and fre­quently interrupted the speak­ers. 
Albright insisted Saddam "doesn't care a fig about his own people," but one protester, Rick Theis, said, "We, the peo­ple of Columbus and central Ohio, don't want to send ames­sage with the blood of Iraqi women and children." 
"We need your support," Albright implored toward the end of the meeting, arranged by CNN with the cooperation of the administration. 
"You don't have it," a demon­strator shouted back. 
Interviewed later with Berger and Cohen for ABC's "Nightline" program, Albright tried to put the best face on the town hall forum, saying it showed "what a vibrant democ­racy we have." 
"I think what you saw, num­ber one, was overwhelming support for seeking ... a peace­ful solution to this crisis," Cohen said in the taped inter­view. But he added that it also showed "rather strong support for doing much further dam­age" than Clinton's military plans call for. 
"I think there was consider­able expression for going in and taking Saddam out, without many fully understanding what that means," Cohen said, refer­ring to conclusions that a ground invasion with heavy 
U.S. casualties would be required. 

Russia to cut back nuclear program 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia will shut down three of eight plants involved in nuclear weapons production amid severe fund shortages, a top government official said Wednesday. 
Nuclear Energy Minister Viktor Mikhailov said Russia's military nuclear program has been cut by half over the past six years and now accounts for only 10 percent of the nuclear industry output. 
He did not specify the names of the plants. 
The last year has been the worst year for the military nuclear program in terms of funding. The government pro­vided only 30 percent of budget funds earmarked for the pur­pose, the ITAR-Tass news agency quoted Mikhailov as saying. 
However, Mikhailov said Russia would complete con­struction of the Bushehr nuclear power plant that it is building in Iran, and strongly denied U.S. allegations the plant could help Tehran build an atomic bomb. 
"Iran's technological poten­tial doesn't allow it to produce nuclear weapons," he said. 
Washington long has opposed Russia's $800 million deal to build the nuclear reactor in Iran. Moscow has shrugged off 
U.S. security concerns, arguing 
ID Pre-Professional 
Society 
Meeting! 

Med. students coming to talk about Med. School and to answer any questions. 
WHERE: 114 O'Shag 
WHEN: Thursday, Feb 19 7:00p.m. 
that it needs the money to keep its own ailing industry afloat. 
Mikhailov also said he would travel to Syria soon to sign an agreement on the "peaceful use of nuclear energy." He did not elaborate, and the prospect of such cooperation has sparked serious concerns in Israel. 
Also Wednesday, a nuclear official said Russia expects to build its first floating nuclear power plant in 1999 and anchor it off the remote northern Chukotka Peninsula. 
The plant would be built at St. Petersburg's Baltic shipyard and towed to its planned loca­tion off the Chukotka village of Pevek, said Yevgeny Ignatenko, managing director of the state­run Rosenergoatom, which runs Russia's nuclear power plants. 
Such plants are "indispens­able in remote regions" and do not entail new technologies or production facilities, he said, according to !TAR-Tass. 
A second floating plant is planned for the Taimyr Peninsula coast in the next few years, he said. Russia is also negotiating the sale of a similar reactor to Indonesia. 
Ignatenko voiced concern that Indonesia's currency and financial crisis might derail the project. He said President Boris Yeltsin would discuss the pro­ject during his planned visit to Indonesia in the second half of this year. 
Associated Press 

The second launch of an Ariane 5 rocket, thought to vindi­cate the European Space Agency for the crash of the rocket's maiden flight, wasn't so perfect after all, the agency said Wednesday. 
The French-based European consortium said Wednesday the rocket experienced a "higher­than-expected roll" after sepa­rating from its booster rocket during a test flight on Oct. 30. 
As a result, additional tests and flights will be conducted. the agency said in a statement. 
The 13-nation agency, with its commercial partner Arianespace, has a proven track record with the smaller Ariane 4 rocket, which marked its 100th launch last fall. 
But the maiden flight of Ariane 5 on June 4, 1996, ended in an explosion just 37 seconds after liftoff. That rocket was carrying $500 million in equipment for a solar energy project. 
The ESA hopes to maintain its lead in the commercial satellite­launching market with the Ariane 5. 

European Space Agency launches Ariane rocket 
page 8 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 19, 1998 

Monday, F~bruary 23, 1998 :,:5=05 p.lll. 
•Basilica of the 

Presider.· Rev. E 




Homilist: Rev. James K. Foster, c.s.c. Music: The Notre Dame Folk Choir 


Thursday, February 19, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 




Study shows drugs deter osteoporosis 
Associated Press 
A new study adds to evi­dence that an osteoporosis drug works nearly as well as estrogen in strengthening the bones of post-menopausal women. 
A small close of alendronate, sold under the brand name Fosamax, increased bone min­eral density in the spines and hips of women ages 45 to 59, the age group in which bone loss is most rapid, the study by European and American researchers found. 
Alendronate was the first non-hormonal drug shown to combat osteoporosis, a crip­pling disease that affects about 25 million Americans, mostly older women. It was approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration in late 1995. 
Osteoporosis makes the bones fragile, greatly increas­ing the risk of broken hips and the small spinal fractures that cause painful, humped backs in many elderly women. Broken hips are one of the leading causes of hospitaliza­tion and death in elderly women. 
Previous studies have shown that alendronate slows bone loss and helps prevent broken bones in women who already suffer from osteoporosis. 
This study, which was sup­ported by the maker of Fosamax, is the first to show that alendronate also can pre­vent the disease, said Dr. Bess Dawson-Hughes, an osteo­porosis researcher at Tufts University who was not involved in the study. 
"Estrogen in my view would be the first line [treatment], not only because it prevents bone loss, but it prevents the progression of heart disease ... and alleviates menopausal 
Looking for opportunities to serve the South. Rend 

symptoms," Dawson-Hughes 
said. 
However, many women will 
not take estrogen because of 
its side effects and a modest 
increase in the risk of breast 
cancer, making alendronate a 
good alternative, she said. 
Another promising alterna­
tive is the recently approved 
drug raloxifene, sold by Eli 
Lilly & Co. as Evista, a so­
called designer estrogen that 
protects bones but does not 
increase the risk of breast 
cancer. Like alendronate, it 
does not prevent heart dis­
ease, but researchers hope to 
develop a designer estrogen 
that will, Dawson-Hughes said. 
The study, published in 
Thursday's New England 
Journal of Medicine, was 
designed to find the lowest 
dose of alendronate that would 
maintain or increase bone 
density in the majority of post­
menopausal women. 
It found that women taking 
five milligrams daily could 
benefit while suffering no 
more side effects than those 
taking a dummy pill. 
The usual dose for people already suffering from osteo­porosis is 10 milligrams, but ·that can lead to side effects including abdominal pain, acid 
indigestion and nausea. 
Dawson-Hughes said she is 
reserving judgment on 
whether side effects are as 
insignificant as the study sug­gests, since previous research also found few side effects "and yet people's clinical experience using the drug is that. ~any people cannot toler­ate It. 

The study looked at two groups of women over two years of treatment. 
In the first group, 1,070 women were randomly assigned to take either five milligrams or 2.5 milligrams of alendronate, or a dummy pill. Women taking the higher dose gained bone in the spine, hips and total body; those tak­ing the lower dose gained some bone in the spine and hips and stayed about level in total bone density. 
Women who took the dummy pill lost bone everywhere. In the second group, 390 women took an estrogen-progestin combination, five milligrams or 2.5 milligrams of alen­dronate, or a dummy pill. Women taking the higher dose of alendronate had gains in bone density that were nearly as good as those taking estro­gen-progestin. The lower dose of alendronate was not as effective, but still was signifi­cantly better than the dummy pill. 
The study was led by Dr. David Hosking of City Hospital in Nottingham, England, and supported by Merck Research Laboratories of Rahway, N.J., which makes Fosamax. 
~ot SomethiV\9 to Say? lAse Observer Classifieds. 

IRAQ: Options, Risks, Ethics & Diplomacy 



TEACH-IN 
Faculty-student-community dialogue 


TODAY 
12-Spm, Center for Social Concerns 
Come when you can & stay as long as you can... 
SPEAKERS INCLUDE: 
David Cortright, Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies  George Lopez, Government, Kellogg Institute, Kroc Institute  
Neve Gordon, Government  Glenda Ray Hernandez, War Resisters League, South Bend  
Rev. Patrick Gaffney, Anthropology, Kroc Institute  Kathleen Maas Weigert, Center for Social Concerns, Kroc Institute,  
Arie Kacowicz, Kellogg Institute for Int'l Studies, Kroc Institute  American Studies  
Patricia Davis, Government, Kroc Institute  Dinah Shelton, ND Law School, Center for Civil and Human Rights  
Robert Johansen, Government, Kellogg Institute, Kroc Institute  Rev. Michael Baxter, Theology  

SPONSORED BY THE FOURTH FREEDOM FORUM 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 19, 1998 
Calendar of Events 
Sophomore Class Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, February 20-21 
St. Joe Hall 
Five Pines Hispanic First Year 
Students Retreat 
Saturday-Sunday, February 21-22 
LTR: Learning To Talk About Race 
Sunday, February 22 4:00-6:30pm Alumni Hall Social Room (Feb. 27-28 Retreat Pre-Retreat Plunge) 
Memorial Mass -Justin Brumbaugh Monday, February 23 5:05pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Applications for NDE #51 (March 27-29) Monday-Friday, February 23-27 103 Hesburgh Library 
Ash Wednesday Wednesday, February 25 
Freshmen Retreat #16 Sign-up In Progress (Deadline February 24) Retreat February 27-28 for residents of Alumni, Breen-Phillips, Howard, Keough, Keenan, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West, and Sarin. Please see your rector or stop by Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Seventh Sunday In 
Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, February 21 
5:00p.m. Rev. D. Reginald Whitt, O.P. Sunday, February 22 
10:00 a.m. Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas E. Gaughan, C.S.C. Vespers Sunday, February 22 7:15p.m. Rev. Mr. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C Scripture Readings 1st Reading 1 Sam. 26:2,7-9,12-1W23 
. 
2nd Reading 1 Cor 15:45-49 Gospel 'Luke 6:27-38 
Parents Say the Darndest Things 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
I don't remember how long it took my Mom to learn not to 
embarrass me in public places. I do remember that it took her the 
longest time to realize that my friends didn't really want to hear all 
the stories about what I did to my birthday cake when I was three or 
what I wore for Halloween when I was six. It turns out, upon reflec­
tion, that it was just a phase my Mom was going through, because 
much later her inherent instinct for saying all the wrong things at 
just the right time seems to have abated. 
Just when Mom got over it I'm not exactly sure. I think that the worst of it peaked sometime when I was in high school. But it leads me to wonder if the reason we can invite our parents to cam­pus during Junior Parents Weekend is because they have learned just enough so as not to embarrass us with privileged information. I think, by Junior year, we have grown fairly certain that they are ready to face the public and to be trusted with all the intimate details of our lives. 
Well, ready or not, here they come! Mom and Dad may already be enroute! It's a weekend during which juniors host their parents instead of their parents always hosting them. It's an oppor­tunity to welcome them to the home that they have, in many ways, made possible for us, and that the juniors, over time, have claimed as their own. For the first time, juniors will be leading the way, telling the stories and waxing nostalgic about life. And maybe, for the first time, we'll appreciate the words of the author who said something to this effect, and I paraphrase: "I marvel at how much my parents learned between the time I was 17 and 21!" Please God, they will marvel as well at how much we have learned in that time. 
Whatever the case, we as a community delight in their immi­nent arrival. We welcome them because we know full well that they are the reason we live and breath, they are the reason we are here. We often speak of the Notre Dame Family. In fact, we so often speak of it that I fear the power of the image may be lessened. Nonetheless, the reality is that it wasn't only you who became a part of Notre Dame when you enrolled for that first class. There was something more that happened. Mom and Dad's years of love and care had moved you to a place beyond the shelter of their home, but not beyond the shelter of their hearts. Their participation in this place is wrapped up in yours; their membership in this family is wrapped up in you. 
Perhaps Junior Parents Weekend is the time for us to take stock. Perhaps it's time for all of us to step back and marvel at all that our parents have learned, and even more, all that they have taught us. From that first step to that last phone conversation, they have be~n with us, guiding, protecting and loving us. It makes sense that we should welcome them here to this place, this place that has become our home. It's only fitting that we should share with them all that we are and all that we have become. All of us at Notre Dame, students, faculty and staff, have reason to be grateful for the love and support of parents; not only our own, but as well, those of our students, without whom this place would not be the unique, special and holy place that it is. This weekend is an opportunity for the larger Notre Dame Family to gather and to give thanks for the many blessings that we as a family have known. 
One of the most significant ways that we, as a Catholic com­munity, can give thanks is through the celebration of the Eucharist. The very word, "eucharist," means "thanksgiving" in Greek. I have long thought that no visit to this campus is complete without partak­ing in the Eucharist; I risk offending some by saying that it is more important even than that which takes place in the stadium on six Saturdays in the fall. It is, wherever we choose to partake in it, a central symbol of our shared faith, and an important moment of prayer and thanks for this family. Join me in giving thanks to God this weekend for the blessings that your family has known in the persons of your parents, and join me, too, in thanking God for the blessings that this larger Notre Dame family has known. 

(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 

----------~----­
Thursday, February, 19, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 11 



Study: Wine lowers death rates Clinton's friend 
Associated Press Renaud, however, maintains Alcohol protects the heart 
PARIS, France 
A French scientist who helped convince the world that wine is good for the heart has evidence that it may reduce the risk of dying from other ills as well. 
In a study published today in the journal Epidemiology, he found a 30 percent lower than expocted overall risk of death in men who drank two or three glassfJS of wine a day. 
''I've always suspected this," said Serge Renaud. "Wine pro­tects not only against heart dis­ease but also most cancers." 
Renaud's study of 34,000 mid­dle-aged men living in eastern France supports what has become known as "the French paradox": Frenchmen who eat lots of saturated fat but still live a long time. 
Hesults were the same for smokers, nonsmokers and for­mer smokers, he said, and there were no differences between white collar and working-class drinkers. 
Hecent studies in the United States found that a drink of almost any alcohol can lower death rates by reducing the risk of cardiovascular disease. 
that wine also acts against other heart ailments and cancers because of the antioxidant action of polyphenol compounds in grapes. 
"Wine is a more diluted form of alcohol, which is important to the body, and if taken moderate­ly at mealtimes it is easily absorbed," he explained. 
After four glasses a day, Renaud warned, wine has an adverse effect on death rates. Although it still protects the heart, excess drinking raises the danger of cancers and liver dis­ease. 
Renaud set off a California wine boom in 1991 when he out­lined his French-paradox theory in an interview on CBS' "'60 Minutes." 
"It started a huge controver­sy," the 70-year-old researcher recalled, chuckling. "The U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms challenged me to show numbers. Well, here they are." 
In fact, he had already made his case in a 1992 article in Lancet. He reported that 20-30 grams daily of alcohol can reduce the risk of coronary heart disease by at least 40 per­cent. 
mainly by acting on platelets in the blood to prevent clotting, he found. Subsequent studies else­where supported these findings. 
In the Epidemiology article, Renaud reported.a 30 percent reduction in death rates from all causes from 2-3 glasses of wine a day, a 35 percent reduction from cardiovascular disease, and an 18-24 percent reduction from cancer. He plans a second article later this year with a more detailedanalysis of his sampling. 
Renaud, a cardiologist, works with the prestigious INSERM unit at the University of Bordeaux. His book, "Healthy Diet," is popular in France. "Growing up around Bordeaux, you know instinctively that wine is good for you," Renaud said. "My grandparents, their friends, all lived to be 80 or 90. I knew there was some special reason." 
During the 1970s, he began to work quietly to research thesub­ject at the INSERM unit in Lyon. He is a strong advocate of the Mediterranean diet, based heav­ily on wheat, olive oil and veg­etables, with more fish than red meat. And, of course, Renaud adds, a healthy amount of wine. 
In Me1nory of 

JUSTIN BRUMBAUGH 
THE CLASS OF 1998 
WILL SEND CARDS TO HIS FAMILY 
THE HUDDLE TUES-THURS 
11 -1 
WE WILL PROVIDE CARDS ALL ARE WELCOME 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Raising the prospect of a legal showdown, longtime Clinton confidant Bruce Lindsey interrupted his testi­mony before a grand jury Wednesday as White H o u s e lawyers con­sidered whether to assert execu­tive privilege in the Monica Lewinsky inquiry, officials said. 
Only President Clinton can assert executive privilege to try to shield parts of Lindsey's testimony. But two officials close to Clinton's defense said Thursday night that the topic was raised in a meeting Wednesday between Lindsey, his private attorney, a deputy White House counsel and U.S. District Judge Norma Holloway Johnson. 
"He has not asserted it yet," 
one of the officials said. Both 
spoke on condition of 
anonymity. 
The 45-minute conference 
with the judge interrupted 
Lindsey's testimony before a 
grand jury investigating 
whether Clinton had an affair 
with a former White House 
intern and tried to cover it up. 
No resolution was reached. 
But the talks with the judge 
were to resume Thursday, and 
could lead to a showdown 
between Clinton and 
Whitewater prosecutor 
Kenneth Starr, who wants 
Lindsey to testify about his 
knowledge of Clinton's rela­
tionship with Ms. Lewinsky. 
The officials did not disclose 
what line of questioning was 
at issue. 
Clinton's political advisers 
have cautioned against claim­
ing executive privilege, saying 
the legal maneuver would look 
like stonewalling to tlie 
American public. 
Lindsey has been with 
Clinton since the early days of 
the president's political career 
in Arkansas. Last summer, he 
spoke at least twice with for­
mer White House staffer Linda 


Botdf!t!: Book!: &Mu!:ic fnvitf!!: you to an 

Op{!n I-lou!:f! fot Nottf! DatnQ &S!aint Maty!: r:aculty &S!taff ~unday, r::Qbtuaty 2 2 • <?:00 p.m.-t2 midnight 
LivQ mu~ic ftam <i?:gO.fO:OO p.m. by thQ ~u~an MQttiman Jazz ~tl~Qmbl{! 
g0% Off (excluding m~g~zinell & newg~~~etll J offet m~y not be combined with ~ny othet digcount 
COME INSIDE. BOOKS, MUSIC, VIDEO, AND A CAFE. 

faces grand jury 
Tripp, according to individu­als familiar with Tripp's account of the matter. 
It was Tripp who last month brought the allegations of a presidential affair and cover­up to light after secretly taping her conversations with Ms. Lewinsky. 
In one conversation, these individuals said, Lindsey tried to persuade Tripp to go see Robert Bennett, the lawyer Clinton hired to represent him in the Paula Jones sexual harassment case. 
These individuals, discussing the case only on grounds of anonymity, said Tripp's lawyer advised her not to do so and she didn't. 
''I'm not going to talk about my testimony," Lindsey told reporters as he left the court­house after a more than five­hour visit. He indicated he would return Thursday. 
In the conversations Lindsey had with Tripp, Clinton's adviser spoke about an episode in which a woman named Kathleen Willey confid­ed to Tripp that Clinton kissed and fondled her in the Oval Office, according to the indi­viduals familiar with Tripp's account. This happened well before Tripp turned over the audio tapes that prompted the Lewinsky investigation. 
Tripp contacted Lindsey after learning that Newsweek magazine was planning a story about the alleged encounter between Willey and Clinton, the individuals said. 
Tripp has said she saw Willey emerge from the Oval Office, her lipstick smeared and clothing askew. Tripp has said Willey was "happy and joyful" about the encounter with Clinton. 
During the first conversation with Tripp, Lindsey questioned whether there was possibly an alternative explanation in which the encounter could be interpreted innocently, said the individuals. 
Tripp said she was certain of what she had seen and heard and -that there was no inno­cent explanation, they said. 
At the time of Lindsey's con­
tact with Tripp, the Willey 
matter was becoming part of 
Mrs. Jones' lawsuit against 
Clinton. 
Lindsey's conversations with 
Tripp are important because 
of the emergence in the probe 
by independent counsel 
Kenneth Starr of a key docu­
ment -a three-page list of 
"talking points" that Ms. 
Lewinsky allegedly gave to 
Tripp last month. 
The document urges Tripp to 
do the same thing Lindsey 
allegedly advised her to do last 
summer -to go see Bennett. 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationally • circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 




VIEWPOINT 
page 12 Thursday, February 19, 1998 

THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norrc Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MAllY'S 0HICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chi<f 
Brad Pr~ndc:rgasr 
Mo~na_ging _Editor Business Manager 
Jam1cHc"lc:r Tom Roland 
Assistant M.maging Editor 
Dan Cichal,ki Sports Editor ................................ Miko Day Advertising Manager............................. Jed Peters News Editor ........................... HC"athcr Cock:. Ad Design Manager .................... Jennifer Breslow Viewpoint Editor.. .. .. .. ... Kdly llroob Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Af.:<:c:nt Editor... . . ...... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ......................Michad Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor.. .. ............Lori Allen Controller ........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ... .. ..... KariC' Kroener 
The Obscrvc:r is the indcpc:ndcm newspapc:r publi~hed by thC' !lflldents of the University of Notre: Dame du Lac .md Sainr MJry'!. Coll('gc. It docs nor nc<.:CM•drily rcAc~.:t the polidcs of the adminisuarion ofe-ither ln!'>timtion. The new' j, reported a... ac~.:urately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majority of rhc Editor~in~Chid~ Managing Editor, A<isistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Edi[()r, Accenr Ediwr, Sainr Mary's Editor, Phmo Ediror, and Associate News Editor. <:ummcntdric!o, letter~ and Inside Columns present the views of the author!>, and not ncces­!'>arily those of The ( )b!>crvcr. Viewpoint space is available mall members of the Notre Damc/Saim Mary's community .1nd tl) all reotdch. ·rhc free exprc.!.!lion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 llu>ine" Otlice 631-53U Managing Ediwr 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 N('ws/Photo 6.~ I~5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-454.1 Office Manag<r 6_11-7471 Ac.;ccm/Saint Marv\ 631-4540 !'ax 631-6927 l)ay Ediror/View1;oint 631-530.1 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.cdu ( Jencrallnfnrnwrion 631-7471 Ad E-Mail ohscrvcr@ldarwin.cc.nd.edu 

• THE DOOLEY fiLES 
In the Kingdom of Loneliness 
O
ne of my first nHmwrins of the 
Notrn Damn experience is the 
voic1~ of Hobert Griflin. an old, shullling priest who livml on the seeond floor of Stanliml IIall. As an in-rnsidllnce dnric and formnr rector of rival Keenan llaiLI bnlieve hn was torn: hn wanted to fraternizn with tlw men who sharnd his halls, yet was bound by an impndiment of spench cursed upon him by both wnary age and many dncades as a smoker. I lis gaunt ligurn was a eommon spectacle on North Quad. and through the eyes of a 

Ed McCoul 
fn~shman he senmed a popular man ­though in rntrospnct this was probably due morn in part to the charm of his cock­er spaniel, Darby ()'Gill, than to any ger­mane effort on his part. 
I don't believe he ever spoke a word to me that I could audibly comprehend, aside from "Good day," and "Dammit, Darby!" Instead. the voice of Hobert Grillin that is fastened in the scrapbook of my mind came from his weekly column. "Letters to a Lonely God," which I discov­ered in The Observer during early Septmnbnr of that first year. It was a piece written more-or-less faithfully on the ordnr of 30 years by a man, now cot­ton-mouthed and sessile, whom God had hl!~ssed with both an uncommon ability for prose and, in turn, an incorrigible dnsirc to undnrtakn adventures about which he could write. 
Ao.; I remember (and I admit to recently drmlging hack through the years, into the 1970s, to indulge in fodder from his pen), Hobert Griflin wrote with the tone of a 
brooding observer. loosing a rough wis­
dom whieh made him. as one reader 
noted. "holy without seeming pious." His 
topics ranged across the board: travels in 
Europe as chaplain for the Glee Club; let­
ters from despondent homosexuals; the 
pacifism of conscientious objeetors; the 
folk revival within Catholicism; the lodg­
ing of transient hippies in the dorm lounge; and the reality of life out'iide of 
Notre Dame. 
The latter of these topics-about the lives of strangers to Notre Dame-now seems the most important of Father Griflin's ramblings. Perhaps he thought so, too, because in his younger days he would perennially inflict upon himself a hiatus from campus life to spend summer in a rectory in Manhattan. Most of his Holy Cross counterparts would remain at their berths in Corby llall or one of the sparsely-inhabited residence halls. Meanwhile, he paid honor to his vow of poverty by taking a place among those for whom poverty was anything but a volun­tary pledge. A basement room was his castle, the headquarters for his good intentions, from which he would count the legs of pedestrians in a neighborhood he called Bleaker Street. 
Most of the time, as it seems clear from his writing, he deprived himself of sleep in deference to the people he would meet, late at night, in coffee shops and diners. Not everyone there would bf) poor by the measure of pocketbook weight, yet Robert Griffin would write of the unique poverty -or more accurately, loneliness-he found in each person. Maybe he would sit across from a penniless derelict eating a ham sandwich; maybe a hippie couple who wished a godless marriage ceremo­ny; maybe a teenage prostitute with no parents; or maybe an ofT-duty waitress with three youngsters in her lone care. For all of these people, Father Grillin would tell us without sentimentalizing, loneliness was a part of their lives. 
A'i humans, it seems in our nature to laugh, to cry, to endure struggles and col­lect rewards, however temporary. Yet, in even the most jovial character. Father Grillin insists, there is a corner of the soul fortifind with loneliness, a shield breach­able only by human charity. With this in mind, it seems hauntingly feasible that these lonely shades of New York City, 1970, walk today the streets of South Bend. 
A defining installment in the Griflin saga was the column which told of the Thousand Dollar Christmas, wherein he had set upon a wild shopping binge with his credit card one holiday season, pur­
'HE EARNED NO REsUME FODDER 
AND GARNERED NO ACADEMIC CREDIT. ALL HE DID WAS BECOME AVAILABLE TO ANYONE WHO NEEDED 
HUMAN CHARITY.' 
chasing food and clothes and toys for a single mother and her trio of urchins. The receipts, he tells, racked up to near $1,000 (in currency of the late '60s). while the mother resisted and insisted that charity was unnecessary-despite the obvious indigence of her family. The need was all that mattered. If anything, the woman's stubbornness provoked the priest all the more to bring her aid. 
This past autumn I played in a similar episode, one which I might call, modestly, a Thirty Dollar Thanksgiving. A waifish, middle-aged woman appeared on Chapin Street to be seen at the clinic for difficulty with her gait. Before leaving she was found to be severely emaciated, impover­ished, abused and starved -in addition to existing medical problems. She Was a soul in need, and quite lonely. 
With nearly every breath she refused to be a burden to anyone, though left to her­self she could only have deteriorated. 
Ignoring her protnstations, llwlpPd to assemble a bask1~t of food from our mod­est food pantry, thfm deliv1m~d her and the Thanksgiving repast to her house. ller reluctance didn't wane, but by the time I left her it was rivalnd by an involuntary, tearful gratitude. In fact, in the face of this charity. them could never have been a more grateful soul: lonnlinnss dispdl<~d by an act of human love. 
Hobert Griflin's sumrm~rs in New York can be loosely considered service ­though he earned no r!\sum6 foddnr and garnered no acadmnie crmlit. All he did was become available to anyone who needed human charity. llis activity givns a lesson of how to serve, for the love he showed was ollen aggn~ssive, demanding to help even thosn who refused what he had to give. His example is a response to what he had once written about the pno­ple we must serve: "The dilliculty with many men is that they do not even know they have fallen into the hands of robbnrs. If they lind themsnlves struck down into the ditches of the Jericho road, they just lie there as though dead." 
I enjoyed one year of "Ldtnrs to a Lonely God" on the first-run circuit befon~ the author's failing health f(m:ed their retirement from these pages. In latn 1994 the old priest who never called himself Father was moved to lloly Cross I louse to live out his days in quiet. I have not snnn him since. Still, his example remains and his voice at last rings with mnaning f(Jr me and for everyone who serves in the siege against loneliness. 
Ed McCaul is the 1997-98 recipient of the Tom Dooley Service !I ward. 1/e is a graduate ofthe College ofScience, class of '97, and curnmtly resides in South Bend. /lis column appears every other Thursday. 1/e can be reached by e-mail at emccoul@nd. edu 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• QuOTE OF THE DAY 




VIEWPOINT
Thursday; February 19, 1998 page 13 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
We Are About to Bomb Iraq, Do You Care? 
want to go to Baghdad. I want to 
live and possibly die with the 
Iraqi people. 
I am scared at the callousness and total disregard for Iraqis that is shared by most Americans and Notre Dame students. I wonder if students who spent a semester in Iraq or another Arabic country, instead of in rieh Europe, would still support mili­tary strikes? 
Chemical. biological, and nuclear weapons are increasingly easy to pro­duce and their threat will continue to increase. However there are greater weapons. What if, instead of develop­ing weapons of mass destruction, we built weapons of "mass creation"? Would Iraq threaten its neighbors if they and the industrialized nations w11re cooperating to promote regional economic and social development? Could hate still win if instead of bombs, troops. and sanctions we sent tens of thousands of ordinary civilians to build tics of peace accompanied by economic aid? Already 100 people have committed to do this as part of the Voices in the Wilderness cam­paign, risking a million dollar fine and a lengthy prison sentence for vio­lating the sanctions. Currently there is a tPam in Iraq, who will stay whether or not the U.S. bombs. 
It is only to the extent that the U.S. government and corporate controlled media (and their Iraqi counterparts) can brainwash us into believing the other side is "evil," that we can light and kill each other. Note that the Americans who die, in contrast to those who declare the war. will be disproportionately poor and people of color. During the Vietnam War only one son of a congressperson had to light. It is the poorest Iraqis who suf­fer the most from sanctions and who make up the U.N. estimated one mil­lion who have died as their result. 
Not everyone believes bombing is so hot. As I write, I have friends who drove live hours to Ohio State to protest for peactf while Madeleine Albright. the Secretary of Defense, and the special envoy to Iraq propa­gandize for war. Purdue is having a demonstration today. Goshen College students vigil each noon at the court­house. University of Illinois­Champaign had 150 students at a teach-in and 250 at a protest. Thursday at 5 p.m. there's a state­wide protest in Lansing being orga­nized by MSU students. I've also heard from students at Earlham College and Western Michigan University. 
Unfortunately I'm not in Baghdad. 
I'm stuck in South Bend. However I'm 
going to make the most of it and skip 
class to attend the teach-in this 
Thursday from noon until 5 p.m. in 
the Center for Social Concerns. The 
teach-in will feature speakers, infor­
mal discussion, and encourage letter 
writing. Soon there will be vigils or 
protests on campus. I hope everyone 
on campus can imagine a peaceful 
solution to this conflict. And work for 
it. 
"We have heard that a half million 
children have died." said "60 
Minutes" reporter Lesley Stahl, 
speaking of U.S. sanctions against 
Iraq. "I mean, that's more children 
than died in Hiroshima. And -and 
you know, is the price worth it?" 
ller guest, in May 1996, U.N. 
ambassador Madeleine Albright, 
responded: "I think this is a very hard 
choice, but the price -we think the 
price is worth it." 
Aaron Kreider 
7B O'Hara Grace 
February 18, 1998 

Today's Iraq Teach-In Fosters Discussion 
"We are at the brink of war," political philosopher Fred Dallmayr said immedi­ately after entering the Notre Dame classroom. "During the Vietnam War," Dallmayr continued, "people contested the government's policies and had heat­ed discussions about the necessity of the war, its costs and its conse­quences. By contrast, today there is no public debate." 
As the seminar proceeded, a friend whispered that U.S. troops were gathering in the Persian Gulf as "if it were noth­ing more than sitting down for dinner." 
"Dinner?" I asked. 
"Yes," she retorted, "no one debates whether to sit down for dinner." 
Democracy, however, is worth its weight, only if the public wrestles with the issues. In spite of Clinton's soaring ratings and the polls indicating that the American people are in favor of going to war, there is a general feeling of indifference in the air. Following Dallmayr's implicit advice, let's examine some of the relevant points. 
We know that Saddam Hussein is no saint. In 1979, he became president of Iraq, and a few months later launched an eight-year war against Iran which resulted in an estimated two million deaths. In 1988, as the armistice with Iran was being signed, Saddam initiated the Anfal campaign in northern Iraq where he killed as many as 100,000 Kurdish people, many of them women and children. Iraq's Crime ofGenocide, pub­lished by Human Rights Watch suggests that Saddam did not hesitate to use mus­tard gas and nerve agents. Two years later he invaded Kuwait. I was in Israel at the time and spent several evenings in a sealed room wearing a gas mask. 
Saddam is not just another thug. He rules his people in a reign of terror. Mere suspicion of dissent can lead to death. Children are encouraged to report any sign of disloyalty even if it means betraying their parents. Saddam is brutal; over the years he has mur­dered hu_ndreds of political adversaries including two son-in-laws. 
In the aftermath of the GulfWar, Security Council resolution 687 was drafted. It states that international sanctions are to be imposed on Iraq until it reveals all plans and production sites for weapons of mass destruction. According to political scientist George Lopez whose field of expertise is eco­nomic sanctions, the United Nations' monitoring group UNSCOM has man­aged to eliminate uranium enrichment and nuclear production facilities; all but two of the 819 ballistic missiles that were in existence in 1991 have been destroyed; and considerable quantities of chemical weapons have been demol­ished. While only a small amount of 
weapons are known to be left, the "unknown" variables are still worri­some. 
But is the current impasse merely a result of Saddam's unwillingness to com­ply to resolution 687? Lopez suggests that the U.S. is also culpable for con­tributing to the present friction. He claims that "in March and November 1997, Clinton and Albright indicated that Saddam must go for sanctions to be removed, an objective that is not part of the resolution's mandate." By expand­ing the resolution's "goal-posts" to include Saddam's removal from office, the U.S: created a logical contradiction which explains, at least in part, his non­compliance. For if sanctions will not be lifted until Saddam is ousted, then there is no real incentive for him to grant U.N. teams unfettered access to all suspected sites. · 
The dearth of meaningful discussion concerning the repercussions of the sanctions is also troubling. An estimated 
My roommate and I have a difference of opinion. He wants to be a priest while I am an agnostic. The crazy thing is, I feel we both fall into the same category here at Notre Dame. We are outsiders. 
What I mean is we don't possess the common goal of most Notre Dame students of being "normal". Everyone wants to fit in, cause no conflict, and land upper-middle-class jobs in four years. These normal students want to be the dutiful Catholic who drinks and chases girls on Saturday night yet is never late to Mass on Sunday. They take God's name in vain, enjoy soft pQrno, and defend their religion with vigor. Service is good, but let's not vote for someone who would help the peo­ple we feel sorry for. 
So what separates my roommate and I from most of the students here? I feel we have strong beliefs and we follow them. We are not confused and we are not hypocrites. It seems to me many people at this school are very lost and probably like it like that. Where are the protests, the radical ideas, the acceptance of different opinions that college in the United States is supposed to foster? 
"You're roommate wants to be a priest? That must suck." My friends laugh and make fun of him and constantly give me sympathy. But when I think about it, they laugh in much the same way when they see chalk writing on the sidewalk promoting "Justice, Democracy, Diversity." Both different and both not "normal". 
Daniel Matejek 
Freshman, Keenan Hall 
February 14, 1998 
300,000 children under the age of live have died in the past seven years, and the sanctions are also considered to be responsible for the death of an addition­al 500,000 people over the age of 60 ­as there is no access to heart medicine, dialyses, oncological treatment, etc. 
Lopez claims that, paradoxically, the terrible suffering of the Iraqis alongside Saddam's methods of terror have resulted in the unifi­cation of the people behind their leader. In contrast to Clinton, 
I I Lopez believes that "increasing
I humanitarian support will strip Saddam of his political power while providing enough aid to stop the soaring number of sanc­tion-related deaths." Finally, one might ask what the 
U.S. hopes to accomplish by wag­ing a war in the Gulf. Considering that most countries in the Middle East possess chemical weapons, including Israel, Egypt, Syria and probably Saudi Arabia, it is unlikely that our objective is con­fined to destroying Saddam's weapons of mass destruction. Isn't replacing a recalcitrant tyrant with a subservient one the real goal? To the best of my knowledge, no high-ranking U.S. official has even met with the Iraqi exiles advocating the estab­lishment of a democracy. I won­der, at times, whether the American public's preferences would be the same if the objec­tives of the war were stated in the poll question: How many Americans would be in favor of going to war in order to supplant Saddam with a Suherto or a Papa Doc? 
Before turning to Aristotle's Ethics, Dallmayr noted that in ancient Greece citizens regularly met in order to debate important issues concerning the future of their state. The Vietnam era has taught us that although the size of our country is not conducive to popular meetings, other means of participation are open to the public. Today, for exam­ple, there is a teach-in organized by the Progressive Student Alliance discussing the impending war with Iraq between 12 and 5 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Leaving our cozy nest and entering the public domairi is often a joyful act that can be accomplished by writing letters to the press or calling upon a member of Congress. It surely is an important act. "After all," my friend added, "we are talking about human lives, not sitting down for dinner." 
Neve Gordon Graduate Student, Department of Government February 18, 1998 

page 14 
Thursday, February 12, 1998 
****stars 
out of five

various artists Blues Brothers 2000 

T
he question on the lips of every fan of the 1980 Aykroyd-Belushi romp through the Chicago blues scene was, "Will a second Blues Brothers movie be as good?" The answer, at least from the musical side of things is, no. It is bet­ter. 
Performances on the soundtrack album read like a who's who of electric blues. The Paul Butterfield Blues Band provides the first.song on the album. Matt "Guitar" Murphy does a raging solo riff for his song, "The Blues Don't Bother Me." Blues Traveler's John Popper provides all of the basic harmonica work for the Blues Brothers. (In the movie they cover it up by making J. Evan Bonifant blow the harp.) Lonnie Brooks and the late, great Junior Wells each take a turn. 
But perhaps two of the best songs on this record come right in the middle, with Eddie Floyd, Wilson Pickett and .lonny Lang assisting the Blues Brothers with "6-3-4-5-7-8-9," (No one at Notre Dame has phone number 5789.) and Taj Mahal. Sam Moore (of Sam and Dave), James Brown, the Faith Chorale and the Blues Brothers singing the old Son House gospel theme. "John the Revelator." 
The Blues Brothers Band, the most collectively tal­ented blues band sinee Muddy Waters' band, meets its match near the end of the album. While "Duck" Dunn, Steve Cropper, Matt "Guitar" Murphy, Tom Malone, and "Blue" Lou Marini appear as ba(:kup in almost every track on the album, the band that plays 
B.B. King's immortal "How Blue Can You Get?" is the greatest collection of blues musicians ever on stage at one time. 
The Louisiana Gator Boys, lead by B.B. King. fea­tures tho talents of: Gary U.S. Bonds. Erie Clapton, Bo Diddley, Issae Hayes, Dr. John, Charlie Mussnlwhitn. Lou Rawls, Jimmie Vaughan. Koko Taylor, Travis Tritt, Steve Winwood, GroVPr Washington Jr.. Joshua Redman, Clarence Clemons and Paul Shaffnr. 
In the film, all of these gnmts nnd up on tlw stagn at the end with the Blues Brothers Band in a thrilling ensemble version of' Hoyster and Guida's "Nnw Orleans" which is also the last track on the album. 
by Matthew Loughran 
****stars
The Very Best of 
out of five


neil diamond 
Neil Diamond 
E
very so often a musical artist comes along songs are universal in that they eapture the senti­
that is so talented, so magical, so passionate ments of the general populaee. 
about his or her work that they become cher­The Very Best of Neil Diamond contains all of tlw 
ished by the general public as one of the favorites, with the exception of "Hed Hed Wine," greats. They may not make the most innovative which was mysteriously omitted from the compila­music, nor do they attempt to defy musical genres, tion. From bar hits like "Girl You'll Be a Woman they just make good clean, catchy, American music. Soon," "Sweet Caroline" and "Cherry Cherry" to And even rarer does some brilliant music studio, like romantic love songs like "lleartlight," "You Don't Heartland music, combine all of these wonderful Bring Me Flowers" and "Love on thn Hoeks," this hymns into one action packed double album. album contains it all. 
Over the Christmas holidays it was virtually impos­The best thing about Neil is his passion and the way sible to turn on the television set and not sec a com­he manages to put so much energy into each and mercial advertising someonc's greatest hits. The Very every word he sings. llis versatility is impressivo as Best of Neil Diamond caught my eye. well, transforming from the Patriarch of Patriotism io 
Neil is quite simply a musical god. Now I undnr­the Doctor of Love in the span of a few songs. NPil stand, some of his lyrics arc borderline cheesy, his Diamond is a true great in a world of muddled pop instrumentation is anything but original, but this man music. I guess you could say, he is a mal diamond in packs so much passion and love into his work that it the rough. is impossible not to walk humming one of his tunes after listening to this album. The man sings from his soul about love, lost love, dreams, lost dreams, death, by Joey Crawford and life in such a brilliant fashion that everyone can relate. Now this sounds cliche, but his songs have quite literally touched the hearts of millions. His 




R~~;·E~·;::-~~:'·;:~;n~r: The Low d 0 wnT:;:;,,~~~!~'a;;.~·:.~:~.t~.;;;~:
apologized recently for American leg of the 
the incident at last week's Brit Sept_. 19 in W~shington, D.C. Mor.e Vo.te. Presented to musicians who rnake "Bridges to Babylon" tour in Les Vogas Awards, in which Chumbawamba details are avail~ble at www.fivehon-cff~~ts t~ educate young .people about on Sunday. The show featumd just the drummer (}anbcrt Nobacon dumped a zons.eom/tour/98/mdex.html political Issues, the two hip-hop groups band and its music and not the dramat­bucket of icc water on U.K. Deputy will each receive the Patrick Lippert ic stage set-up at previous stadium and Prime Minister John Prescott. Award at the Feb. 24 benefit in New arena shows. Tickets to the show sold 
Nobacon was arrested but was later Rumors have been confirmed that York. for $300 and $500 dollars. released after Prescott decided not to The Smashing Pumpkins will be press charges. No apology has yet come going electronica on their next from the band or its management. album. According to a recent press an .Halon is holding a contest at Fans of Blur will no longer have to 
release, the Pumpkins will be working its official website (www.van­endure exorbitant Japannsewith Bon Harris, a former member of halen.com) in which fans can win import prices for Bustin' &
V 
P
earl Jam will hit the road with its the British dance-industrial group a pair of tickets for a launch party of Dronin', the band's remix and live dou­longest North American tour in Nitzcr Ebb, in order to give the album the band's new album. Van Halon III ble CD set proviously available only in over four years. There are two an "electronic edge." (set for release March 17). Japan. Although the album will be legs, the First opening in Missoula, The album features the debut of new released in Britain, it will not be avail­Mont. on June 20 and ending in Seattle vocalist and former Extreme frontman able in the U.S. American fans will like­on July 21. Thn second leg, which The Beastie Boys and Salt-n-Pepa Gary Cherone. The first single, ly find the album now as a British 
focuses more on the cast will start on will be honored for their political "Without You," is set to air on the radio import rather than its more expensive Aug. 17 in Indianapolis and will end on work at a fundraiser for Hock The starting today. Japanese counterpart. 



TOP1 


ist Jake Cinninger, of Niles, Mich., is only 22 years old, yet boasts a diverse foundation. While his style is clearly a breed of its own, it evokes early John McLaughlin, as well as some country and bluegrass roots, reminis­cent of the great slide guitarist Sonny Landreth. But Cinninger's playing is most striking because he melds the idea of lead and rhythm guitar together into a cacophonous and punctuated texture. There is no guitarist in the area with 
panache equal to Cinninger's, as his spef~d and brilliant ear display. He'll tell you that guitar isn't his strongest instru­
ment and that he is a much more profi­cient drummer. 4\fter hearing him on guitar, you'll find this hard to believe. 
This explains why hn and Steve Krojninwski, 24. of South Bend, sound 

Primus/Blink 182 
The Crystal Method 
The Chieftains 
Matchbox 20 
Counting Crows 
Govt Mule 
Megadeth 
Blur 
Third Eye Blind/Smashmouth 
like they play from one mind. Krojo, as loyal fans call him, bursts with a pas­sionate intensity that drives the sound and plays off of Cinninger's leads. He cites Neil Peart of Rush as his inspira­tion to originally play, but as with Cinninger, he has developed a style that thrives off of mixed meter and polyrhythms, a style of his own. 
Finally, the band features lea.d vocalist and bassist Karl Engelman, 23, of Tinley Park, Ill., possesses a furiously active style which at first feels very un-bass like to the ear. This makes sense after discovering that he just switched to bass from guitar only five months ago. Engelman, like Cinninger, states that his first and primary instrument is not his current one. Karl credits the heralded Lakotan flute for much of his musical growth, as it was his device for musical innovation and creativity as a youth. Much of the reason for the group's sur­prisingly full sound can be attributed to Engelman's work, as he tactfully weaves melody and harmony in and out of his ornate texture. Playing with a never-dis­appearing boyish grin on his face, there's no doubt he loves his new instru­ment. 
So, what is it that has Michiana raving about this band? Alibaba's sound waxes tonal then atonal, funky then mellow, complex then simple, beautiful then spooky. They simply can and will do it all. The three members agreed that one of their main goals has been openness to many styles and sounds, which is evi­dent in nearly every original piece. In the rehearsal I attended last Thursday, 
upcoming conce 
in which Cinninger and Engelman sound much like Satan on a bad day. It's fusion, jazz, funk, country, and bluegrass. and it's Alibaba's Tahini making the magic. 
While Alibaba's Tahini has been expanding its fan base around the Michiana and Tri-State area, they still play frequently at Mickey's Pub and Higher Grounds downtown, and will be appearing at local establishments in the near future. If you want to hear the area's best original music and dance 'til you drop, catch them soon in one of the area's more intimate venues. 
For more on the band along with .... booking information, you can contact Boondock Studio in Niles, Mich. at (616) 683-5600 or (219) 234-2095. 
* star 
out of five
One Left Shoe 
T
he bat.tle of the sexes has long been disput­ed, but in recent years, an overwhelming amount of new evidence has emerged. Perhaps no one else will publicly acknowl­edge the basic superiority of the female intellect, but I am no longer afraid to do so. Most proofs to this hypothesis are lengthy and redundant, yet Steve Poltz has recently offered a succinct and easi­ly accessible example of the fact that men are, quite simply, inferior knuckleheads. 
Poltz is the man who co-wrote "You Were Meant For Me" with everyone's favorite Alaskan, Jewel. In addition to creating one of the most successful sin­gles of the 1990s, Poltz and his fair counterpart effectively re-defined the meaning of breakfast. No longer do I merely think of pastries and pork when I hear terms such as "glazed donut" or "sausage biscuit". Unfortunately, yet almost certainly, this song and all of its wonderfully subliminal messages will constitute the high-water mark of Steve Poltz's career. 
Paltz's new solo album, One Left Shoe, is nothing more than an extension of the musical and lyrical content of "You Were Meant For Me." His songs are slow, acoustic, and cover very familiar territory: Jove, in all of its unabashedly metaphorical glory. Although the majority of this album made me want to kill myself, I must admit that Poltz has a knack for sounding a lot like Soul Asylum Unplugged or Wally Pleasant without a sense of humor. Of course, that leaves very little to be desired, but like my mama always said, "Honesty is the best policy, and you, my son, are the truth." Paltz's songs may be well written, but he forgot to add one VERY important ingredient to the mix: Jewel! Just about anyone with a smidgen of common sense knows that a song like "Good Morning (Waking Up With You)" would be infinitely more appealing if it fea­tured Jewel, but Poltz, like so many of his ignorant brothers. is either too stubborn or too stupid to simpy allow a female to perform all of his composi­tions. 
Overall, you can't blame Steve Poltz for trying, but this album was a failure before it was even recorded. For anyone who either buys or enjoys this record, I must sagely advise you to do the fol­lowing: take a deep breath, grab some Visine, and take the quarter out of your pocket 'cause you're playing yourself. 
Steve Poltz should be commended for lending some credence to one of my usually unbelievable hypotheses, but he is, as Eric "Ice Cream" Kohn might say, " ... a real fool." 
by DJ Spak 

Feb.27 Feb.28 March 1 March 8 March 10-11 March 12 March 13 March 15 M_arch 16 Riviera Theatre (Chicago) 
House Of Blues (Chicago) 
Clowes Memorial Hall (Indianapolis) 
Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) 
Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) 
Vogue Theatre (Indianapolis) 
Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) 
Riviera (Chicago) 
Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) 
.... 
.. 
-
Thursday, February 19, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
Harry Caray, 1920-1998 



'Old Harry,' the voice of the Cubs, dies 
Associated Press 
RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. 
Ilarry Caray, who took millions of fans out to the ball game on radio and televi­sion, died Wednesday four days after col­lapsing at a Valentine's Day dinner. He was bnlieved to be 77. 
In a career spanning almost 60 years, the often ollbeat I I all of Fame broadcast­er covered baseball's greats from Musial to Mays to Maddux. Holy Cow! as he would say. 
"We're going to miss old Harry," Hall of' Famer Stan Musial said. "lie was always the lif'n of the party, the life of baseball." 
Caray had a heart attack Saturday at a nightclub-restaurant while with his wife, Dutchie, near their winter home. lin died of' brain damage caused by the attack, said Harlan Corenman, Eisenhower Medical Centnr spokesman. 
A broadcaster since 1941. Caray beeanw a household name through his Chicago Cubs' games for WGN-TV, car­riPd nationally by many cabin systems. lie was immediately recognizable for his thick, oVPrsized glasses and raspy, sing­along rendition of "Takn Me Out to the Ball Game" owr the public apdrnss sys­tem during the snventh-inning strntch. 
Canty was a broadcaster for the St. Louis Cardinals for 25 years and for the Chicago White Sox for 11 yf~ars before moving across town to Wrigley Field in 
19H2. 
During his 15 years with the hapless Cubs. he was fond of spelling names backward and mentioning fans, includ­ing his favorite bartenders. who were visiting tlw ballpark. 
"Happy Birthday to So-and-So.... llappy Anniversary to So-and-So. That's always been my way of acknowledging the fans," he wrote in his 1989 autobiog­raphy, "Holy Cow." 
Another favorite Canty exclamation was "It might be, it could be, it is -a home run!" and he'd shout "Cubs win! Cubs win! Cubs win!" after each Chicago home victory. lie said he developed his trademark phrases during a semipro baseball tourney at Battle Creek, Mich. 
"Nobody could sing 'Take Me Out to the Ball Game' like he could," said First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, a lifelong Cubs fan. "And I hope he's doing a sev­enth-inning rendition in heaven." 
In Chicago, few sports figures were as loved as Caray. Fond of beer, he was known around town as the "Mayor of Hush Street," a popular nightclub dis­trict, and his downtown restaurant has remained popular since its 1987 opening. 
In later years as Caray's health began to fail, his broadcasts were full of scram­bled names and other mistakes. He often complained that criticism of his broad­casting skills began only after he was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1989. 
Caray had recently reduced his broad­casting on WGN. He eut out road trips in 1997, saying they were "a grind for ballplayers, and they can be pretty tough on announcers, too." 
And in December, it was annou~ed that his grandson. Chip Caray, would join him and analyst sidekick Steve Stone in broadcasting Cubs home games. At the time, the veteran broadcaster said he had no plans to leave the booth anytime soon, but he admitted the station proba­bly had a successor in mind when it hired his grandson. 
This wasn't Caray's first bout with health problems. · 
He had a stroke in February 1987 while playing cards with friends at the Canyon Country Club in Palm Springs, Calif'., where he and his third wife, Dutchie, lived in the offseason. 
It was the first opening day in the broadcast booth Caray had missed since World War II. 
-Caray was born Harry Christopher Carabina in St. Louis. llis precise age was unelear; he brushed aside questions about it. The Cubs media guide said he was born March 1, 1920, but other accounts had him as much as five years older. 
The St. Louis Post-Dispatch said it had a copy of his birth certificate that listed his birth date as March 1, 1914. whieh would have made him 83. 
Caray began his major league broad­casting career in 1945 with the Cardinals and stayed with the team until 1969. lie spent the 1970 season with the Oakland A's, and did play-by-play for the White Sox from 1971 to 1981. 
While with the White Sox, the bespec­tacled Caray began singing "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" during the seventh­inning stretch, an idea suggested by team owner Bill Veeck. When Caray moved to the Cubs, he took the routine with him. 
Caray was the patriarch of a three­generation broadcast family. ·In addition to grandson Chip, there is Caray's son, Skip, who announces Atlanta Braves games. 
Caray won the Ford C. Frick Award in 1989 to put him in the broadcast wing of the baseball Hall of Fame, and he was elected to the National Sportscasters and Sportswriters Hall of Fame in 1988. 

He held various odd jobs until he land­ed his first radio job at WCLS in Joliet, Ill., in 1941. He moved on to WKZO in Kalamazoo, Mich., where he worked with commentator Paul Harvey, then the station's news director. 
Returning to St. Louis, he did a sports show on KXOK and broadcast hockey games over WIL, where he got his first baseball-announcing job. lie did Cardinals and Browns games -actually re-creations from the Western Union ticker -for Griesedieck Brothers Brewery in 1945. The next year he became the voice of the Cardinals. 
In addition to his wife, Caray is sur­vived by five children, five stepchildren, 14 grandchildren and one great-grand­child. · 
Read The Observer. Recycle The Observer. Use Observer Classifieds . 
... 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all dassifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar.  Ladies and Gentlemen, if you  Thank you for visiting me,  I would. I think you made the right  
NOTICES  NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT-Discover how to work in America's  sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer. 1628 Portage Av. 234-3831  haven't been connected already, it's the perfect time to do so, and  Shanaynay!  choice.  
Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves.  273-0482  jen -That had betler not be a para- I think it is time to go to another  
000 THE COPY SHOP  000  Competitive wages + bonuses!  UMPHREY'S McGEE  site in your tummy.  hockey game  
LaFortune Student Center  SeasonaVyear-round. For informa­ is willing to do it at the  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE,  lion, call: 517-324-3111 Ext.  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY  IRISH CONNECTION  We hit the Jackpot!!  Joining the ranks of Mike Schmidt,  
AND WEEKENDS!!!  N55842  219-291-7153  this evening only  Mickey Mantle and Ted Williams ..  
Mon-Thur 7:30am -Midnight  Rodeo!  Today's issue is Brad's 500th as a  
Fri 7:30am -7:00pm  MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  Don't miss this very special  member of The Observer.  
Sat Noon -6:00pm  please call219-271-0633  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR  ICon event, because if you do...  Congratulate him on spending  
Sun Noon -Midnight  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD  Jason-You know you want to  $20,000 a year to fall asleep in  
CALL 631-COPY ILOST & FOUND I  FOR RENT FURN, 1 BDRM APT., AIR, PRJ­VATE KITCHEN, ENTRANCE,  I  AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097 FOR SALEI  Hey-did you know... We're open early, late, and week­ends for your convenience I 000 THE COPY SHOP 000  hook up with me. Can I borrow your accounting book? I need to review my debits and credits.  class each morning after he spent the night working. This is the commander: These classifieds have been  
LAUNDRY. PHONE, UTILITIES  PC-CDROM games $10-25;  LaFortune Student Center  approved by the Minister of Piety.  
I lost my day planner (of province).  INCLUDED $400/MO, ROOM  Hohner Aco.GUITAR $175/best.  Phone 631-COPY  Dan is right. I'm only nice when I  The above classfied ought to go,  
II found, please call Ann Goodwin  $200/MO.  634-1926  want something. Just ask Jason.  but the First Amendment is more  
@ 273-9942.  272-0615.  important. Got1a love freedom of  
2-6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR  PERSONAL  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer.  Rednuts, I know way too much  speech. That is all.  
LOST: GRAY WOOL "OLD NAVY"  CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW &  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire- about you. Sorry about the gesture  
COAT AT O'NEILL DANCE ON  FALL.272-6551  place in winter. Love and joy for  by the grot10.  
- SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL MONI­CA@  ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married NO Alumni couple,  your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love  H Mac -When you get down and  Mark­ 
634·3948.  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  with adopted 3 year old daughter,  to provide a new born with love, joy  life is bad, just be reassured that  
JPW AND OTHER ND-SMC  wants to shower new baby with  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ you don't look like a boy.  I know you love getting your name  
WANTED  EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  love. Artistic lull-time mom, athletic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset, trips  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  Heather Ann -I'm glad we're going to Bruno's tonight. I think we made  in the paper ... so how about two times in one day?  
243-0658.  to the zoo, grandma, play groups,  I won the flame war  the right choice.  we wish you a merry christmas. we  
lullabies, too. This is a home where  wish you a merry christmas ...  
Russian, 7 yrs exp. Rus. teacher  wishes come true. We'd like to get  mark deboy is a fourier god  II you were a big slice of Bruno's  
for foreigners. Private & group  ALL SIZE HOMES  to know you. Call Shawn & Meg  no kidding  pizza, and you were starving to  
lessons all levels & translations  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  800-767-4257.  death, would you eat yourself?  oh wait. it isn't christmas. boy am I  
Yulia: 243-1079 leave message  232-2595  LegaVMedicai/AIIowable exp. paid.  Happy Birthday to the Grasshopper  Well, would you?  dumb at 4 in the morning.  

,...,
nt I'T' 
page 17 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 19, 1998 
• COLlEGE BASKETBALL 
Eighth-ranked Wildcats go to town on Florida 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
Nazr Mohammed scored 19 points and Jeff Sheppard added 18 Wednesday night as eighth-ranked Kentucky avenged an earlier loss to Florida with a 79-54 rout. 
Kentucky (23-4, 11-2 Southeastnrn Conference) reboundnd from a nine-point loss at home to Mississippi and won for the 11th time in its last 12 meetings with Florida (13-10, 6-7), which played without suspended star guard .Jason Williams. 
At one point in the first half, Florida had as many turnovers as field goal attempts (12) and Kentucky used a 25-6 run to break the game open en route to a 41-24 halftime lead. 
Williams was dismissed for 
thn season this week for what 
Florida cl!~scribed as a viola­
tion of t11am and athletic 
department policy. The sus­
pnnsion was the third this sea­
son for the junior, who was 
averaging 17.1 points. 6.7 
assists and nearly thrne steals 
per game. 
Instead of its usual starting five. Km1tueky began the game with four guards, with Saul Smith and Canwron Mills mak­ing their lirst starts of the sea­son in plaen of forwards Allen Edwards and Scott Padgett, who start11d tlw Wildcats' pre­vious 26 gamns. 
No. 2 Duke 70, Clemson 66 
No. 2 Duke blew a large lead to Clemson for the second time this season bpfore Trajan Langdon's three-point play lift­ed the Blue Devils to a 70-66 victory Wednesday night. 
A month ago at Cameron Indoor Stadium, the Blue Devils (24-2, 13-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) led the Tigers by 24 points, but watched Clemson miss two good shots in the final seconds of an 81-80 Duke victory. 
This time, Duke blew a 15­point lead down the stretch and trailed 64-63 with 1:30 to go. But Langdon, who scored 15 of his 17 points in the sec­ond half. converted a free throw after his driving layup with 23 seconds remaining, and Chris Carrawell hit his foul shots to keep Duke ahead. 
Roshown McLeod scored 15 of his 19 points in the opening period as Duke took a 40-26 halftime lead. 
The Blue Devils made it 45­30 on McLeod's basket and Steve Wojciechowski's 3-point­er with just over 15 minutes left. 
Harold Jamison, who led the Tigers with 17 points, had four jams as the Tigers grabbed the lead. But it was Langdon again who bailed Duke out. 
Whnn Clemson closed to 46­40 with 13 minutes to go, Langdon scored Duke's next six points. 
While Duke's stars shined, Clemson's top seorer. Greg Buckner, struggled. lie scored the Tigers' first three points, then missed the only four shots he took in the first half. 
While Duke has won four of its past live against the Tigers, it was the Blue Devils' first win at Clemson in four years. 
Iowa 88, No. 5 Purdue 69 
Kent McCausland scored 16 points and Ricky· Davis and Ryan Bowen each had 14 Wednesday as Iowa used torrid shooting to down No. 5 Purdue 88-69, snapping the Boilermakers' seven-game win­ning streak. 
Kyle Galloway, making his second straight start, scored 12 points for Iowa (18-8 overall, 7­6 Big Ten), which defeated Purdue for the fourth straight time. 
Brian Cardinal scored 17 points, Brad Miller 15 and Chad Austin 12 for the Boilermakers (22-5, 10-3), who dropped 1 1/2 games behind conference leader Michigan State with three games remaining in the regular season. 
Purdue, which had won 11 of its previous 12 contests, trailed 19-4 -the same deficit it had overcome to defeat Illinois 75­72 last Saturday. But the Hawkeyes, who started three freshmen in Davis, Galloway and Dean Oliver for the second straight game, kept up the pressure. 
Iowa hit 19 of 27 shots, or 70 percent, in the first 20 minutes to race to a 53-27 halftime lead. The Hawkeyes also were hot from long range. hitting 7 of 12 3-pointers in the half while Purdue shot just 43 percent and missed seven of eight 3-point­ers. 
Iowa seored 10 of the first 15 points of the second half. including consecutive layups by Oliver, Davis and Bowen, and took a 63-32 lead on Darryl Moore's steal and break-away dunk with 16:18 remaining. made it a 14-point game, 77­The 31-point margin was the 63, at the 3:43 mark, but J.R. largest of the game. Koch banked in a 3-pointer and 

A 3-pointer by B.J. Carretta Purdue failed to close. 


<lt~a~...m 
DE,~LING WITH THE STRESS OF GRA.DUA.TE SCHOOL 

•academic pressure ... 
•poor 
job market... 

•departmental 
politics... 

• 
exams & dissertation... 


Join the presentation & discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon of the Counseling Center 
This Sunday, Feb. 22 4-5 p.m. 
Fischer Grad. Community Center (All welcome. Refreshments provided.) 

McGill 
continued from page 28 
Last year her fiery team came close to winning. 
After pharmacy school, McGill wants to keep playing doctor on the court. Her love for teaching and basketball has her toying with the idea of teaching and coaching at the high school level. 
"I go back to my old high school to watch games," McGill said dreamily. "I sit in the stands, and I can see myself [coaching]." 

"As the program keeps getting better, I hope my name will come up," said McGill, challeng­ing the future. "Someday I want someone to look at the records and say, 'I want to beat Julie MeGill in that record."' 
But as excited as she is for the building program, she can't help but hope her efforts will matter to her replacements. 
"It would be nice if my name stayed around for a while," she added sheepishly. 
McGill has little to worry about. Legends are rarely for­gotten. 

--------------~----~~----~---------------~--·~~-----~---­
page 18 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 19, I 998 

The Gender Studies Program 
with the support of the Office of the Provost PRESENTS as a Distinguished Woman Lecturer 
..___~ant 
utnter 

Civil Rights Reading Room Law School 3:00pm to 4:00pm 
Limited participation • Please contact the Gender 
Studies Office -631.4266-to reserve a space 
Reception • Law School Student Lounge 

4:30pm to 6:00pm 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 8:00pm 
-· 
Thursday, February 19, 1998 ~----T-=--=h.::.....:eO:....=..:::bs.=:...:.erv-=-er·-=-PA=-=I-=-D-=--=A=--DVE--==--=RT=-:::.I-=-=SE=---=M=EN::.._.:__T__________Pa....:.._ge_19 
Professor, University of Pennsylvania Law School 
:: 


Co-sponsored by the African and Mrican-American Studies Program 
--~-------~-~--~----­
-~------------------.--------...--~~­
page 20 I hi": \The Observer • SPORTS ; hur.,uav, reoruarv 1'J. 1'I'!Thursday, February 19, 1998 
Raptors, Celtics swap seven 
Associated Press 
TOHONTO 
The Toronto Haptors contin­ued to make over their team, completing a seven-player trade with the Boston Celtics on Wednesday. 
The Haptors sent guard Kenny Anderson, center Zan Tabak and forward Popeye Jon·es to the Celtics for guards Chauncey Billups and Dee Brown and forwards John Thomas and Hoy Rogers. 
Anderson, acquired in a blockbuster trade last week for star guard Damon Stoudamire, had refused to report to Toronto, a franchise troubled by front-office insta­bility and an 11-40 record. 
Billups, the key for Toronto, was averaging 25.4 minutes and 11.1 points a game for the Celtics. The 6-3 rookie was the third overall choice in last June's draft. 
"lie's a great point guard," forward Marcus Camby said Wednesday. "We played against him a few times and he's lit us up pretty good." 
"We're really eager and excited for him to join us." 
Brown, a seven-year veter­an, was playing 19.8 minutes and averaging 6.8 points for Boston. 
''I'm excited, very excited," Brown told a radio station. "Hopefully I can .help the Haptors get turned around in the right direction." 
Hognrs, who started his NBA career with the Vancouver Grizzlies, has played in only nine games this season, avnraging less than a point a game. Thomas was. averaging :~.3 points a game in 11.2 minutes. 
Haptors general manager (;ten Grunwald described Thomas as a "dark horse" in the dnal, and gushed about the potential of Billups. 
"I think we have a very bright future now," Grunwald said. 
Anderson, a former all-star, is the key for the Celtics even though he's struggled this year. lie averaged 12.6 points and 5.4 assists for Portland. 
Jones and Tabak are both currently on the disabled list. Jones played only 14 games this season, averging 8.5 points. Tabak was averaging 
6.4 points on 19.3 minutes. 
"ND Weekly" 
Fridays at 
5:30p.m. on WSND 88.9 

KAT Refusing to play in Toronto, Kenny Anderson was dealt by the Raptors to the Celtics in a seven-played deal. 





ndvider 
is now hiring for the positions of 
Store Manager 
and Sales Clerk 
for next school year. 
Applications can be picked up in the store (basement of LaFortune) 
Monday-Wednesday 7-lOPM Thursday-Saturday 6PM-12AM 
and are due in the store no later than March 4 for prospective Managers and March 18 for prospective Sales Clerks. 
Please contact Laura Stevenson at 4-4121 or stop in the store if you have any questions. 

Tough test? 
Call someone for sympathy. 
0 

1-800-COLLECT ® 
' 
gersmlire head coach Campbell 
NEW YORK 
Colin Campbell fell victim vvelanl3SUI~Y to the inept play of the NHL's highest-paid team when he was fired as coach of the New York Rangers Jess than a year ~.fter he took them to the Stanley Cup semifinals. 
No SllCCessor was chosen, although th(f leading candi­dates appeared to be John _ Muckier, the former Edmonton : .__ . and E.J. McGuire, coach of the Rangers' American Rocke League affiliate in 
The' gers, who will resume play next Thursday after the Olympic break, are 
·-·· 7-24~16 and six points out of ·the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference despite a payroll of $44 million, highest 
•in NHL history. But the team also is the oldest in the league and lacks both speed and size. 
In announcing Campbell's irring, general manager Neil Smith emphasized that "the coach wasn't getting through 
to the players. I think (Campbell's) voice couldn't be heard. or ears were being deaf to the voice." 
immediately refrained from naming a successor, say­ing only that it would be announced within about the next 48 hours. He said he was "99 percent" sure who it would be, adding, ''I'm just trying to finalize conversations with the person." 
Campbell, 45, was associate coach under Mike Keenan of the 1994 Rangers, who won tho team's first Stanley Cup in 54 years. lie became head coach when Keenan left aftor winning thn championship and had a regular-season record of 118-108-43 in 3 1/2 seasons. In each of Campbell's three full seasons, the Rangers got at least to the second round of the playoffs. 
But he end'ed up guiding them to fifth place overall in the East, then took them to the conference finals, where they lost in five games to Philadelphia. He was rewarded with a contract extension that pays him $2.4 million through 2000. 
The New York Daily News said Campbell's likely replace­ment was the 64-year-old Muckier, who spent consider­able time in the Rangers' orga­nization and was most recently director of hockey operations for the Buffalo Sabres. The newspaper speculated that Muckier wuld help rebuild the team, then turn the club over to Craig McTavish, currently an assistant with the Hangers. 

Women in the Workplace 
Sponsored by Junior Class Council 

Speakers: 
~0~~~~ f'fRHEM~~~ ~ K~TTV 1\~~0l[D) 

February 19 @ 5:00 in Montgomery Theatre 
Thursday, February 19, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer .. SPORTS Thursday, Februarr 19, 1998 

• TRACK & fiELD 
'Errol-stotle' runs with a philosophy all his own 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Spons Writer 
Errol Williams is one of those rare individuals who demon­strates academic and athletic excellence combined with a gen­uine interest in others and strong faith in (;od. 
Williams, a senior, is a two­time captain of Notre Dame's track and field team. A star ath­lete in the high hurdles and 200­mcter dash, he has competed in the NCAA championships, earned all-Big East honors and this year tied the school record of 7.29 in the 55-meter indoor hurdles. 
Yet he doesn't let his success go to his head. "I guess my wholn philosophy is that I've been given a talent and an opportunity that not a lot of other people have been given," said Williams. "I try to have fun with that and do as much as I can with it. When I have really big disappointments, my folks and my faith keep reminding me of what I have and that I can have fun with that." 
Williams has been the top hur­dler for the Irish since his fresh­man year, when he qualilied for the semifinals at the NCM out­door championships in the 110­meter hurdles. A Florida state champion in high school, it may seem that he was always head­ed for glory on the track, but thern was a time when Williams' running future was in doubt. 
"I ran just a little, a drop, in junior high," said Williams. "I went out there to run the hur­dles the first day in high school, and they showed me how high times, helping him to grow as a person and an athlete. Williams, born in Jamaica, but a resident of Florida since he was eight, said God and religion are the center of the house in Williams' family. 
Nick-named "Errol-stotle" last season by his teammates because of his tendency to repeat quotes and sayings, his favorite quotes are a poem which starts; "Follow your dream, pursue it with haste. Life is too short, too fleeting to waste," and the Bible verse Joshua 1:9, which states, "Have I not commanded you be strong and courageous. Do not be terri­lied; do not be discouraged, for the Lord your God will be with you wherever you go." 
"Those arc really helpful, even during meets, when things are getting crazy and the nerves are flying; those really relax me because you know you don't have to carry it all on your shoulders," Williams said. 
Williams has the chance to achieve his main goal for the 1998 season this weekertd -a Big East team title. To win either the indoor or outdoor championships is the focus of the entire track team, and is an accomplishment which would be a true mark of the team's growth and improvement. The Big East indoor championships will be held in Syracuse, N.Y., this Saturday and Sunday. 
The competition, a love for running, and the "runner's high" are what keep track fun for Williams. "I think anyone who does anything with passion almost goes unconscious in it. 
the hurdles ,----------------------, 
were, and I was likn, 'OK. 
Errol 
I'll see you guys later."' 
w·ll. 
But the coach 


I tams 
said, 'No, I'll 
sec you tomor-Hurdler ro~. ;", I i a m s I Senior attributes part Lauderhill, FL 
of his success 1------------------~
to having good 
CAREER BESTS
and undcr­s t a n d i n g Indoor ('.oaches, his 55m H 7.30 1996 Butler Open 
pan~nts and 
his faith. lin 200m 21.62 1997 Meyo Invite believes that Outdoor 
God has caused the 110m H 13.60 1995111inois Track Fest right people to 200m 21.30 1997 Miami Classic bt~ in his life at 400m H 52.86 1997 Alabama Relays
the right 
L____________________J 


People call that 'the zone,"' said Williams. "Hurdling gives you the opportunity to catch that rush, and that's kind of what I've been running for this year. It's purely emotion. Those define my best meets, when I get into that zone. I don't love practice, but I love Saturdays and Sundays." 
"My biggest problems are more mental than physical," he commented. "Fears and doubts 
are  the things that hold  me  
back,  if anything holds  me  
back."  

"He's not only a very talented individual, he's very focused on what he does," said sprints and hurdles coach John Miller. "He's a typical sprinter in that he's very intense and goal-oriented. He's got a lot of natural ability, probably one of the prerequi­sites of being a sprinter and hurdles, but he also works very hard. I doubt if he's missed more than one or two practices in his four years." 
In a sport in which the ath­letes are often divided into groups, Williams helps to unite the .entire team -men and women, sprinters and distance runners, throwers and jumpers alike-in his role as captain. 
"I think the kids on our team look to him as a leader, and rally around a lot of things that he does. The greatest impact he has is how he afl'ects others and develops team unity and cama­raderie. He's probably one of the only people on the team who knows what everyone else is doing," said Miller. "Ever since I met him, Errol's always really impressed me in his demeanor and interest in others. He's one of the finest young men I've ever been around." 
This year, Miller and head coach Joe Piane hope Williams can reach the highest level for a collegian -that of all­American. To do this, he would have to reach the finals of the NCAA champi­onships. Although a dif­ficult goal, it is also an attain­able one based on his past times and fin­ishes. 
Off the track, Williams car­ries a 3.7 GPA. as a dean's list student major­ing in account­ing in the College of Business Administration. He also works with the Life Skills Program to get varsity teams more involved in the community through out­reach programs at the Center for the Homeless, and is a member of Beta Alpha Psi and Captain's Council. 
After graduation, he will attend a one-year program here at Notre Dame to get a master's degree in accounting. Williams 
Hmn·s: Mnn.-Thm·s 4:00-10:00 p.m. F1·i.&Sat. 4:00-11:00 p.m. Sun. 5:00-IJ:OO .m. 

hopes to initially work for a Big Six accounting firm, but own his own small firm within a few years. Hegardlcss of where he works, he plans to stay involved in track throughout his life, probably through eoaehing at the high sehoollevel. 
• 
256-1444 
121.'1 Linconwuy West Mislwwalw ( Frnllct•sr·o was d~t:{ 111 Nl).fi,. :w Yl'tlr.<) 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT IS ALWAYS LOOKING FOR-NEW VOLUNTEERS TO WORK SAFERIDE. CALL MARY AT 1-9888 FOR MORE INFO. 

NEED RESIDENCE LIFE COMMUNITY SERVICE HOURS? SAFERIDE COUNTS! 




student governm~ 
Thursday, February 19, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
was the longest game we've with 20 points and nine ...
Home 
had this season. It just got rebounds. The Hoyas shot uglier and uglier." 22.7 percent from the field Notre Dame was led by and went a pathetic 0-for-17
continued from page 28 
Notre Dame 80
McMillen with 21 points, from three-point range. With including 4-of-5 from beyond the defeat, they drop to 7-17 on the bench. the arc. on the season and 4-12 in the 
Georgetown 54 
The penalties forced both Riley finished with another Big East. teams to lose momentum, double-double, netting 11 Having swept a three-game with the Irish putting up only points and 11 boards. As a home stand, the Irish will try Hi shots in the second half. team, the Irish went 52.2 per­to continue their luck on the No. Player Total FG 3-PT TP Min With less than five minutes to cent from the field and 4-for-road by traveling to 9

50 Kelley Siemon 3-5 0-0 21 
go, Georgetown players Mimi 11 from beyond the arc. Connecticut on Saturday. 
00 Ruth Riley 4-6 0-0 11 20
Hitter and Kacy Williams "After I hit my first one, my While facing the second­
4
03 Mollie Peirick 0-6 0-4 28
fouled out, while two more shot really felt good," ranked Huskies will be a Irish players earned their McMillen remarked on her challenge for the team, 20 Sheila McMillen 6-8 4-5 21 27 fourth. Of the 53 fouls called performance "and then I got" McGraw sees a major oppor­33 Niele lvey 3-5 0-2 6 24 for the game, 36 were called a couple of other open looks tunity in it as well. 8
12 Danielle Green 2-5 0-0 23 
in the second half. later on." "It's a great opportunity for 
4
32 Julie Henderson 2-2 0-0 15
"We couldn't seem to get On the other end of the us. We haven't played a back into sync," McGraw court, Georgetown was led by ranked team since December, 35 Mary Letters 1-1 0-0 4 4 commented on the penalties, Nathalie Bourdereau, the only so it's a great measuring stick 40 Diana Braendly 1-4 0-0 2 12 "which was what we had in player in double figures for for us. It's a chance to see 41 lmani Dunbar 0-0 0-0 0 6 
the first half. The fouls we the Hoyas. how much better we have 6
42 Kari Hutchinson 2-4 0-0 12 
had both ways just really The 6-foot-4 freshman nar­gotten since the last time we 
44 Meaghan Leahy 0-0 0-0 5 8
slowed us down. I think that rowly missed a double-double played Connecticut." 

TheIrish Connecti~:g: 1t4tke ~4, ~~ 
Proudly Presents· 
U...plu-ee's Mdiee 
Friday Feb 20 
Ska and Jazz-2 great bands! 
SKIUIA DU @tJ«d 1tuee 
Open for lunch at 3 pm Friday Sandwich, chips, & a drink -$3.75 
Both shows start at 10:30 
525 N. Hill St. South Bend 
.ROTC 
Air Force hosts b-ball tourney 
By BRIAN GAMBLE to participate in the tourna­The Notre Dame men's Air Sports Writer ment. Force, men's Navy, and The games tipped off women's Army teams all won The Notre Dame Air Force Saturday with a round-robin their divisions. In addition, the ROTC hosted the 12th annual tournament, where each male Notre Dame women's Air Force Flyin' Irish basketball tourna­team played four games and and Navy teams both advanced 
ment Feb. 14 and 15 at the each female team played three to the semifinal round. 
Joyce Center. games within their division. The In the single elimination tour­Twenty-four male and nine top two teams from each divi­nament on Sunday, both the female ROTC teams, represent­sion advanced to the finals Notre Dame men's and ing each branch of service, tournament, which took place women's Air Force and Navy came from all over the region Sunday morning. teams were defeated in the 
semifinal round. 
The Notre Dame Army team finished second behind Marquette Army in the 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98/99 School 
woman's bracket, however. Illinois Institute of Technology
Year and January '98. Summer Rentals June,August. 
Chicago won the men's tourna­ment, defeating South Dakota State University in the champi­onship game. 
Cadet Jill Clifford of the Notre Dame Army team was named the female MVP of the tourna­ment. 
The sucess of this weekend's events was due to Cadet Kara Thiede, Air Force ROTC project officer for the tournament. 

WIN SIX FREE TICKETS 
Visit us on the web and find out how to win six free* round-trip tickets anywhere American flies in the continental U.S. See web page for rules and specifics. 
~
•. . . . . . . SPECIAL LOW AIR FARES 
Sign up for College SAwAver Fares"' and Net S~ver Fares'M announcing special savings to selected destinations via your e-mail. 
... 
RECEIVE TRAVEL CERTIFICATES 
Receive American Airlines/Citibanks Student Travel Savings Certificates when you're approved for a nCKJnnual·fee Citibclnk credit card. 
CGLLECT IA.v~;AGE• MI.ES 
Enroll in the Mdvantage travel awards program and also learn about many other ways to travel for less with American. 
AmericanAirlines· 
Americantali 
page 24 The Observer • CLUB SPORTS Thursday, February 19, 1998 
.. 
Ladies put on 
the gloves for 
Bengal Bouts 
By TIM CASEY Spons Wri1er 
The newest and one of the fastest growing sports on eampus is women's boxing. Inspired by the success of the men's boxing pro­gram and espeeially the upcoming Bengal Bouts, the women have been excited with the progress they have made in their inaugural year. 
"We've achieved more than we ever expected. We started out two years ago with a proposal to get a women's boxing team and finally this past fall we were successful. It was a long process, but the benefits have been amazing," states club president Amy Frigon. 
The dub is the brainchild of Aimee Catrow. Catrow is a third­year arehitecture major who is abroad in Home for the year. She will serve as next year's president. 
"Aimee is the real key in getting the women's boxing program going. She pushed for the idea and we convinced the University this year and needless to say, we were very excited," states Frigon. 
"Hight now. we are doing much more with Bengal Bouts than we did 50 years ago. We are getting more money to send to the little kids in Bengladcsh. Every little bit counts, and the last cou­ple of years we have done very well," Frigon commented. 
The team eonsists of 50 women who have three weeks of prac­tice in the fall and five weeks in the spring. The fall season con­sists of running, pushups and situps. During a normal practice, the women do 200 pushups, 1,000 situps and run for 30-45 min­utes three times per week. 
"In the fall we introdueed the basics of boxing, including foot­work, the jab and the hook. while also getting in great shape," said Frigon . 
"Thn spring season, we started working toward sparring while continuing working out. The sparring is optional but about 30 of the women sparred. We paired up with friends to spar with so it was fun. while not being that competitive." stated Frigon. 
Other key members of the team include junior Carrie Flanagan, senior Laura Giuliani, and junior Nieole Torrado. They all serve together as the leaders of the club. 
"We get along real well. Everyone is motivated and enthusias­tic, whkh helps get things done. We really enjoy boxing, which helps us get a lot aecomplished," stated Frigon. 
The dub is very demanding but the benefits are well worth the saerifke and hard work. Flanagan states, "Our turnout was far better than expected and from then on we have continued to improve as boxers. Through the program we have gotten in great shapn, while learning a new and exciting sport. The most rewarding benefit, however, has been being able to meet some dynamic, aggressive and athletic friends and teammates. The people arc what have made this pro­gram so successful." 
In the future they hope to further establish the pro­gram, maybe even sponsoring a tournament. "We hope to have a tournament someday. We still have a lot to learn but that would be great. Maybe we can be involved in a pre-fight before the Bengal Bouts." 
The strong fight: 
In its inaugural season as a club sport, the women's boxing team has trained countless hours in prepara­tion to fight the fight. 

Thursday, February 19, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 25 
• FENCING -­
Magda Krol points Irish, Canada in winning ways 
By ANTHONY BIANCO seriously," said Krol. "I do it for Spons Writer the fun." 
With all her achievements in 
It would seem that the only fencing, her unconventional phi­attitude that an accomplished losophy has brought her to the fencer has is one of dominance. top of her sport. And despite this 
After all, a NCAA national cham-attitude, she is still one of the pion, a Canadian junior and most feared fencers in both eadet champion, and a member Canada and the NCAA. of the Canadian national team Krol first picked up the blade at does not gain those aeeomplish-the age of 12 at a University of mrmts with a earn-free, fun-lov-British Columbia summer camp. ing attitude. From the beginning, fencing was 
Or so it would seem. a game of' fun for the native of 
Yet this is the exact outlook Vancouver, B.C. that sophomore Magda Krol "I picked up fencing for fun. No takes with her. even after seven one in my family has any experi­ynars of competitive fencing. ence, and my dad just dared me 
"After all this time and all my to try it for fun," said Krol. "So I fnnci . I still don't take myself did, and I still do." 

Ha}PJJPlY JBirtiulay JBri<lQ-i£ 

Krol and fencing was an instant success, as she was moved to the advanced group on only the sec­ond day of classes. She decided fencing was for her, and after the summer classes ended, she joined the local fencing club in Vancouver that September. 
The local club gaye Krol the basic experience in fencing, par­ticularly in the foil event, that led her to pursue the sport more seriously. With Canada needing fencers in her age group, Krol made the Canadian winter games as a junior olympian. 
"[Making the team] was almost out of luck. They needed fencers in my age group, so I went for it." 
At age 14, Krol packed her bags and blade and headed to Poland -where she holds dual citizenship -to begin training as a serious competitor. 
"My training really took off there," she said. "In Poland, and most of Europe, fencing is a real­ly serious sport. The more intense competition taught me a lot." 
The experience she gained under the tutelage of Polish coach Maria Burnagiel paid off almost immediately. She went on the national circuit at age 15 before crossing the Atlantic with a whole new outlook on the sport. But she did not return empty-handed. She came back to Caoada as the 1993 Polish cadet under-17 national champion in epee. 
"When returned, my 
Canadian coach, Jerzy Kajrenius, 
was surprised. He really began to 
take me as a serious fencer 

then," she said. 
Having missed most of the competitions of the year and not amassing the points necessary, Krol was unable to make the Canadian national team in 1994. But the trip to Europe was any­thing but a loss for her. 
"I returned home still aware that it is a game that I should enjoy. But I also learned to become more focused." 
After taking care of the formali­ties of surmounting the points necessary to make the 1995 Canadian cadet team, she fin­ished 27th in the world in both women's foil and epee, turning in Canada's top fmishes. 
A new year brought a new plateau for Krol, as she landed a spot on the senior national team in the foil, and qualified for the 1996 Pan American games. Krol and-her team missed competing 
IC
ENAN MOVIE IGHTS 

APRIL 2nd Last of the Mohicans 2&i My Best Friend's Wedding 

MARCH 1.6rh Long Kiss Goodnight 5rh Aliens Z\3td Raiders of the Lost Ark 20rh Running Man 30~ The Natural 27rh Braveheart 
··::=:::~1~~~~fi~l1~11;~~~:~. 
.;;.;,} 
Every Tl,t~.~y nigh~: )Jii;J1~¥s. Movies start at 10 p.m. 

Finnigan's will be taking you back to the seventies tonight with music, games and pricing. Join us for contests such as TWISTER, LIMBO and more ..... 
Live remote with U93 from 8 -11 p.m. Joins us for the crowning of the King or Queen of Mardi Gras. If you have entered , you n1ust be present to win the trip to New Orleans! 

If vou don't win the trip on Thurs., 1 fly out to our olace on Friday 
~ ' 
It's just PLANE tun. 
in the Summer Olympics in Atlanta by one point. 
But that missed opportunity was soon overshadowed as col­leges began knocking on Krol's door. Without hesitation, Krol accepted the invitation to attend the University of Notre Dame. 
"I always dreamed of coming to Notre Dame because of the excel­lent athletics here. The fencing program was great too. I knew everyone from legendary coach Mike DeCicco to current head coach Yves Auriol. I knew I want­ed to fence for him," she said 
As an individual competitor coming into the team-oriented program at the collegiate level. ·Krol faced a monumental transi­tion, especially with the enor­mous sprit that Notre Dame offered her. 
"It was a lot to get used to, but the team strengthened my game immediately. Everytime we circle up, weapons raised, recite the Hail Mary, and end with a 'Go Irish," I can't help but say, 'Wow, that's a team."' 
Krol had no trouble getting used to the Irish focus on team­work. Although she always con­siders the foil to be her main event, she has no problem switching to fence epee for the Irish. 
''I'm going to help the team out wherever the coach places me. Yes, there arc difficulties with switching between epee and foil. especially when it happens in the same tournament, but I just want to fence," she said. 
As a freshman, Krol did just 
that, becoming the flrst women's 
epee champion in Irish history 
last year. En route to that finish, 
Krol posted an amazing .968 
winning percentage. Her strong 
freshman-year record gave her 
early status as a squad leader. 
"I am honored to be alongside 
team captain Anne Hoos as a 
team leader. We have a strong 
team that can swipe all of the 
upcoming individual tourna­
ments. 
"Just as important as the physi­
cal preparation, we have to be 
prepared mentally. We can't for­
get any of the competition. One 
by one, we can get there and face 
Penn State, the perennial 
favorite, on our home turf with 
an upper hand," she said. 
But before the NCAA individual 
tournaments begin, Krol will 
head back to Canada to fence for 
her country. This weekend she 
will fence in the second circuit 
meet in the Calgary Open, look­
ing for a spot on the national 
team. After the frrst circuit meet, 
in which she finished in the top 
eight, she is ranked fourth 
nationally in foil and among the 
top 10 Canadians in epee. 
With all these accomplish­
ments, Krol's attitude heading 
into this weekend's Canadian .. 
qualifier has not changed from 
the 12-year-old who decided to 
try fencing at a summer camp. 
"I just want to go in, fence well, 
and have fun," she said. 


• WOMEN's fiGURE SKATING 
U.S. goes 1-2 after short skate 
that bring in the gold 
Associated Press 
Finding tlw Snowlets stufl'ed owls may bn an Olympic-sized challenge, but tlwrn are still enough souvenirs in Nagano to last the dcdicah~d shopper another four years. IIPrn's a sampling of what's big in Nagano: 
NIIL JEHSEYS -Get em while they'rp hot. and at only $200 apiece. they're a real steal. For somebody. According to Fumiaki lmaizumi, the most sought-after players' jerseys are thosP of Paul Kariya (who isn't here), Wayne Gretsky, Mark Messier (who also isn't here) and Pavel Bure. 
PINS -They'rn everywhere. Pin stalls, almost always run by foreign­ers, are among the most popular hangouts in the city. If there's a crowd on tlw street, chances are it's full of peopl1~ looking at pins. 
HOOTS BEHETS -Bright red. just like the ones by that famous Canadian dothier that tlw Canadian team wmtrs. The fans in Nagano are snap­ping tlwm up at Canada llouse. or at tlw Nlll . .Japan Shop just behind the hockey venue. The prien -a nwre 
$?H. 
BlJIHliiiST STUFF -Amulets, rosaries, incense. lucky dolls. Straight from one of the oldest temples in .Japan. Prices vary from a few dollars to hundrPds of dollars. 
Japan  4  1  3  
Italy  4  2  
France  2  1  3  
Switzerland  2  1  2  
China  0  3  0  
South Korea  2  0  0  
Czech Republic  0  1  1  
Sweden  0  1  1  
Belarus  0  0  2  
Bulgaria  1  0  0  
Denmark  0  1  0  
Ukraine  0  1  0  
..  Belgium  0  0  1  
Kazakstan  0  0  1  

8 7 6 
5 
3 2 2 2 
2 1 
1 
1 1 
1 
G-Gold, S-Silver, B-Bronze 
AP 
Associated Press 
NAGANO, Japan 
Gold. silver, black and 
blue. 
Michelle was nearly per­fect. Tara, too. But. oh, Nicole, what happened to you'? 
So went the wild dream of 
an Olympic sweep by U.S. 
women figure skaters. 
Michelle Kwan imagined herself in heaven and skated like an angel in the short program Wednesday night. Tara Lipinski summoned the vision of a cartoon princess, soaring gaily in her own ice palace. 
Nicole Bobek? She didn't know what to think when her first triple klutz wrecked any hope of a sweep. It was a bomb of a show that left her sobbing, stunned and speechless. 
The 1-2 punch of Kwan and Lipinski virtually guar­anteed one of them will win the gold, the other the silver in the best showing by the United States in 42 years. 
It wasn't so much their position in the standings that separated Kwan and Lipinski from No. 3 Maria Butyrskaya of Russia, No. 4 Lu Chen of China. No. 5 Irina Slutskaya of Russia or No. 6 Surya Bonaly of France. 
It was the way Kwan and Lipinski, the past two world champions, blended their artistry and athletic leaps so much more f'luidly than everyone else. 
Kwan, silky in a red and pink sequin dress, melded her skating in perfect sync with piano concertos by Rachmaninoff as if the com­poser had written them just for her. 
"Before I started," the 17­year-old Kwan said, "I heard people cheering and I thought, 'I'm in heaven.' People clapping, billions of people watching on TV and I'm skating. It's just me and the ice. When I'm on the ice, I don't think anybody can stop me." 
She had "butterflies" in 
the warmup, but she put 
them to rest by thinking. 
"'I've done this so many 
times. I can do it now. I've 
done everything possible. 
I've trained hard.' I kind of 
knocked some sense into 
myself." 
She breezed through the eight required elements flawlessly, from her first combination -a triple lutz­double toe loop -to her final spiral. Her fine, quick footwork, her strong, grace­ful lines put her in a class by herself. 
The judges rewarded Kwan with a solid string of 5.9s for artistry, and 5.7s and 5.8s for technical merit. 
Kwan smiled and waved, not in any exuberant man­ncr, but as if she merely did what she was expected to do and was saving emotion for the free skate Friday night. She came in as the reigning 
U.S. champion, and is 4 min­utes away from leaving as the Olympic champ. 
American women have won the gold and bronze in the same Olympics twice, in 1992 and 1960, but eap­tured the gold and silver only once when Tenley Albright and Carol Heiss did it in 1956. 
No eountry ever swept the women's figure skating medals, and none will this year. Bobek's botched per­formance -a spill on a triple lutz 20 seconds into her program, and mistakes on every other jump ­assured that. The 1995 U.S. champion cried as she wait­ed for her marks, 4.2 to 4.7 for technical merit, 5.0 to 
5.5 for artistry, and was still crying when she left the arena in 17th place. She declined to talk about it afterward. 
The 15-year-old Lipinski clutched her head in her hands and nearly cried with joy at the end of her por­trayal of Princess Anastasia to the music from the ani­mated movie. Calling her 

KAT Photo 
Michelle Kwan skated a flawless short program Wednesday. 
performance her best ever "technically and emotional­ly," she felt the tension melt away when the musie stopped. 
"This is the first time I felt like I wanted to cry," said Lipinski, who looked even lighter than her 82 pounds as she floated in a dress of lemon yellow brocade with a light blue bodice. "It seems so hard ... and when you do it, it's like a miracle." 
When she landed a double axel with 45 seconds left in the 2-minute, 40-second routine, she pumped her fist and smiled broadly, looking as if she wanted to shout in delight. 
"I did," she said, her eyes wide with happiness. "I just felt great. After the double axel I was thinking, 'I wish this was a 4-minute pro­gram.' I just wanted to keep going." 
Lipinski's eoach, Hichard Callaghan, callml her skat­ing "her best emotional and artistic pnrformanen." and he was especially impmssed by the spend she gmwratnd. 
M 
MEDALS 
TABLE 
1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
VVednesday, Feb. 18  
50 total events  
Nation  G  5  B  Tot  
Germany  7.  8  7  22  
Norway  7  8  4  19  
Russia  8  4  1  13  
Canada  4  5  3  12  
Austria  2  3  7  12  
United States  5  1  4  10  
Netherlands  4  4  2  10  
Finland  2  3  5  10  

• MEN's ICE HOCKEY· 
U.S., Sweden take early exit 
Associated Prtlls 
NAGANO, Japan 
Done and gone. 
Tho Olympic men's hockey tourna­ment claimed its biggest victims-the greatest U.S. team ever assembled and defending champion Sweden ­before either got to play for a medal. 
The Czech Hepublic knocked out the Americans 4-1 and Finland beat Sweden 2-1 in Wednesday's quarterfi­nals. 
Canada, seeking its first hockey gold modal since 1952, and Russia rolled on with 4-0 records. The Canadians swept past Kazakstan and Russia defeated Belarus by identical 4-1 scores. 
Friday's semifinals feature Canada and the Czech Republic (3-1) in a goaltending showdown between Patrick Roy and Dominik Hasek, while Finland (2-2) faces Russia. 
The Americans wound up sixth ­an improvement over their worst-ever finish ofeighth in 1994, yet well below expectations. They, haven't won any kind of medal since the "Miracle on Ice" team took gold in 1980. 
"Everyone expected to be around here for another week and all of a sudden, you're yanked out and done," Jamie Langenhrunner said. "Everyone's frustrated because the last two games we played pretty well. but we didn't win." 
The Americans had just one victory over Belarus and losses to Sweden, Canada and the Czech Republic, despite outshooting every opponent. 
Facing Roy and Hasek-the world's best goalies -in consecutive games didn't help. The Americans scored just once against each man. 
"We played real hard every night 
-Ht~ 
and every game," Bill Guerin said. "Unfortunately, we didn't get the breaks. He (Hasek) was making saves when he had to and getting lucky when he had to." 
Canada didn't need luck or a mar­velous porf'ormance by Roy against lowly Kazakstan, outscored 25-6 in losing its three round-robin games. 
Joe Nieuwendyk, Shayne Corson, Brendan Shanahan and Steve Yzerman scored for Canada. Wayne Gretzky added two assists. 
''We knew that we were the superi­or team," Gretzky said. "We just had to be patient, be smart and play our game." 
The Czechs did the same against the United States. 
Hasek gave up a first-period goal to Mike Modano, then his teammates scored four straight goals to send the Americans home early. 

Thursday, February 19, 1998 
DILBERT 
... A.NO TI-\E "DOGBERT CURSE" STR.IK.ES t\NYONE 
WHO SENDS A. CHI\IN 
LETTER. BUT THE LETTER 
5AID I'D DIE. IF I 
OIDNT 
) 
J 
L-~-.-..JL-__.L_...£;;;~~;;d:l Vi l---!l;:l..::;;:;.!.....!ll..-....1--,;._..J;........J."...o.....-J JL-..l-.lii.it._...l----.....l:::.;..............,;;...;;.w 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 28 Addict's need? 61 Tongue twister 
#3
31 Time off1 Starts 
66 Stare at 6 Em1ly of "Our 
33 Kind of deer 
67 "Clear as day"Town 34 Treasured 68 Like Mark's
spots?
10 It takes a bow at 
spaceship a rec1tal 36 [Oh, no'] 
69 Loch-­14 Render 38 Tongue twister 
70 D1fficulty. so to harmless. 1n a #2 speak 
way 
42 Jacket material 
71 Famous test 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.....,-:::-r:-T:::'"l 10 Hit and run, e.g. ..::::.t::-t'-'+7-i 11 Map line ..;.t=":+=-t:-:-112NewYorkriver to Lake Ontario 13 Tenant 
once -=+-'+'+::-1 19 Cheered -'-t:-:+=:-t=-1 22 Word w1th form 
or film 23 Where El Misti volcano is 25 Refrigerator 
decorations -"+=-+-'--r.:-1 26 About .,..:+'-+:-:--r.:-1 29 Dollar rival __._....._......._. 30 Hand down 
kiss the girls 
cushing auditorium • $2 
10:30 p.m. 
chinese golden dragon acrobats • friday, february 27, 1998 • 7:00pm stepan center • $3 ndjsmcjhcc $5 general 
participant 
DOWN 
1 Stick (out) 2 New England state sch. 3 Part of an ironman 
competition 4 Ready: Fr 5 Hook's mate s "Getting close" 7 Before, to Byron a Old-fashioned 
party 
9 Shellacking 
"'(QU'RE TI-\E WORLD'S 
SMARTEST GARBAGE M~N~ HOW WOUlD 'f'OU H~NOLE 

Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley 
32 "Harvey" character Elwood P. --­
35 Took to court 37 Half of a 1934 M-G-M couple 39 Newswoman 
Magnus 40 Kerplop maker 41 Part of kg·m 44 French-Belgian 
boundary river 45 Talk about 
endlessly 46 Reveal oneself 47 Civil War side 
thursday, february 19, 1998 
acoustic cafe  sophomore literary festival  
9 pm -12 am  harlan ellison  
@the huddle  washington hall • 8:00 pm  


page 27 
The Observer • TODAY 
~ 
l 
"' 
~ 
49 Pink-slipped 52 Diamond corners 
54 Speech stumbles 57 Ireland 
59 Breakfast chain, 65 Star Wars: informally Abbr. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries: Today you will find yourself the target of a "hired killer." Look out for those who would cause you ill and are will­ing to pay to do it. Do something nice for a Libra today. 
Taurus: Take the bull by the horns and make your own destiny today. Don't let anyone steer you in the wrong direction. Milk today for all it is worth. 
Gemini: Look to have a meeting with you spirirtu­al "twin" today. Watch out for double meanings. 
Cancer: Your day will be marked by uncontrolled growth. Avoid any poten­tially unhealthy activities. 
Leo: Today will be smooth sailing, no wor­ries. Go with the flow and follow the circle of life. 
Virgo: Try something new today. You may find the experience liberating and exhilerating. but play it safe. Do not overlook any Libras. 
Libra: If you weigh your
DIO 'YOU K.NOW T\4ERE'5 
options carefully. you will 
A.L':IO A. "GA.RBt:>..C£ MAN'S 
CUR'SE." FOR f>EOPL( WHO SEND CI-\1\IN LETTER~~ 
60 CNN word 62 Consume 63 Originally 
named 64 Old-fashioned contract1on 
discover that you will soar higher than anyone else in the Zodiac. Expect small favors. 
Scorpio: Watch out for that stinger on your butt; you just might hurt some­one or yourself. Hug a Libra today. 
Sagittarius: Play Robin Hood today. Give to those who are less fortunate than yourself. Don't be too proud to wear tights. 
Capricorn: While climb­ing the mountains of adversity you will face today, you will need to be as sure footed as a moun­tain goat; luckily you are a Capricorn. 
Aquarius: Today the moon is in the seventh house, meaning that a new episode in your life will start today. Make it special. Look to help a frustrated Libra. 
Pisces: You may feel like 
a fish out of water today, 
but don't let it get you 
down. Swim against the 
current and keep in mind 
that there are other fish 
in the sea. 
-
• 
-
-
15 Part 16 They, 1n Tneste 11 Tongue tw1ster 
#1 
20 Varsity starters 21 Comic strip t1ger 
22 II may have 6 rms. nv vu 24 Moore of "G.I 
Jane" 
21 R1ver through the Lake of the Ozarks 
43 Foul up, as plans 45 Old what's· --·name 
48 Rewrites 
50 The Post or News. e.g. 51 Protozoan 53 Biblical brother 55 Rejections 56 You may have to send for it 58 Runabout? 

- 
SPORTS  
page 28  Thursday, February 19, 1998  

• WOMEN's BASKETBALL 
There's no place like ho 
Women s basketball tops Georgetown at the Joyce Center 80-54 to continue home streak 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
If thm·11 has been one thing the Notre Damo women's bas­ketball team has done well this season. it is playing at home. 
In their last four games at the Joyce Center, the Irish have won by an average of 3R points. So it was no surprise when the Irish began to pull away in the first half of their game against the Georgetown lloyas last night. 
Those fans who were look­ing for a less lopsided game might have enjoyed the half­time contest between the fifth graders from St. Pius. In keeping with the tradition of previous home games. the Irish derailed the lloyas, 80­54. 
From the start of the game, it was apparent that the Irish were ready to play. After the lloyas drew first blood, Notre Dame went on a 22-4 run in 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Freshman Ruth Riley grabbed 11 boards on the night, including this battle down low. 
• SMC BASKETBAll 
minutes p I a y Georgetown 
then used a full-court press that began to pay off in the wan­ing moments of the first 
half. 
However, junior Sheila McMillen hit a trey with less than a minute remaining to give the team a 46-22 lead going into the locker room. Despite an outstanding offensive per­formance by the Irish, it was the sti­fling defense that kept them in the lead, holding the Hoyas to 20 percent shoot­ing in the first period.
"We played Sheila McMillen scored a team-high 21 points on the win, including hitting four of five well in every shots from three-point land. 
phase of the ly well. I thought we played heads. Less than four min­game," head coach Muffet with a lot of intensity. We utes into the second period, McGraw said in reference to went out there and were very Hiley earn ~d her fourth foul the first half. "Our defense focused." 
and was forced to take a seat was good, we rebounded well, In the second half, fouls and we shot the ball extreme-began to rear their ugly 
see HOME/ page 23 
Saint Mary's forward leads Belles' fight on the court 
By SHANNON RYAN is by breaking five Saint Mary's ing the one that means the most been overshadowed by competi­10 wins on the season, which Sports Writer rocords. to her. tors. But this hasn't stopped would require winning the As a fourth-year starter, MeGill "After a game, people look at MeGill from fighting for every remainder or the games. When her hands wern barely has shattored single-season my rebounds... and ask me why point and rebound and subse­''I'm not comfortable with our 1:apabln of gripping a basketball, records in rebounds (209), I'm mad if I got 15," said the for-quently leading the team and record. but know it will come," 
Julin MeGill could be found at 
any hour in her Oakland Park, 
Ill.. drive­
way practic­ing free throws into a rusty hoop. 
Now ov11r a decade 
lat11r. not much has 
-

e h an g e d . McGill MeG iII's addiction pl!rsists, only now she has a firm handle on the ball and is usually spotted driving down the !ann on Saint Mary's court, doing what comes naturally. 
"I don't know what it was," MeGill said of hnr desire to play tho game. "But I know if I wasn't playing basketball. I wouldn't bB 
1ne." 
The senior tri-eaptain has dis­covered lwr identity this season. proving oxaetly who Julie MeGill 
-
... 
rebounding average (10.4), free throws (98), most free throws in a game (13), and most recently surpassed the 625 mark of career rebounds. 
But don't put the record book back on the shelf yet. McGill may only have three more games to play, but she has a little more writing to do. 
''I'm happy about my records, but the one I really want to get is most rebounds in a single game," the ever-hungry McGill said, pounding her fist into her palm with determination. 
Currently MeGill shares the record at 17 with Jennie Taubenheim, who served as McGill's role model during her freshman year. However deep her admiration for Taubenheim, so far MeGill hasn't settled for equality with her hero as she took reign over four of Taub1mheim's titles. There is no way McGill will be satisfied shar­
vs. Miami, February 22, 12 p.m. 
at Connecticut, February 21, 2 p.m. 
Men's and Women's Swimming at Big East Championships, February 18-21 
Saint Mary'sBasketball Schedule 
Feb 21 

ward. "But what I'm really try­ing for is the 18 [rebounds in one game]." 
At 5-foot-10, she has often 
at Nationallndoor 
conference in both. 
Coming down with the big grab has become an important philosophy for MeGill, defining the way she plays. 
"I take pride in [my rebound­ing]," the biology major said. "If you can rebound it shows you're a good, solid player. You can score 40 points in a game, but you're still a one-sided player." 
McGill has shown her well­roundedness not only by making her own mark, but by leading the team's future. 
"She's a great captain," fresh­man Nicole Longar said. "If I ever have a question, she'll sit down and work it out with me. Julie really knows her game. She's helped out our team so much and has kept the morale going." 
McGill's goals are not limited to rebounding or maintaining an upbeat squad. however. She aims on taking the 7-15 Belles to McGill said confidently. "If we 
don't got 1( wins, I'll bl) disap­
pointed." 
Like mos. seniors, MeGill is 
eounting her lasts, only slw 
keeps track )f time by the ticking 
of her biotogical basketball 
dock. 
"It's always in the back of my 
head that time is running out," 
she said. "After games, we just 
look at each other and can't 
believe we only havB a couple 
left." 
Believe it or not, or like it or 
not, the inevitable final buzzer 
will sound to end McGill's eareer 
as a Belle. However, McGill vows 
more heartily than a bride that 
basketball will remain a constant · in her life. 
She'll wean herself off eompet­
itive play with her annual tradi­
tion as a member of the Hell's 
Belles in Bookstore Basketball. 
a e 16

Championships,
~ a) •Magda Krolleads fencing squad 
February 19-22 at National Indoor see page 25 
'-= 
Championships,
/! •• 
•Hurdler Errol Williams hits his stride 
February 19-22 ~ see page 22
(:. at Northern Michigan, February 20, 7 p.m. 
~ ~ 







