
• Scene recaps the career of Eddie Murphy • U.S. bombers are prepared for possible airstrikes 
Monday

and reviews his latest film, "Holy Man." 
on Yugoslavia as President Milosevic has maintained his tough stand on Kosovo. 
OCTOBER 12, 

Scene • B 
World & Nation • 5 
1998 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOl XXXII NO. 36 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Saint Mary's service project aids women's center 

By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
News Writer 
For the volunteers from Saint Mary's College and the volunteers at St. Margaret's House of downtown South Bend, the first annual 'Saint Mary's in the City' project was about more than painting walls. 
It was about establishing a con­nection that St. Margaret's House director Kathy Schneider calls "a natural fit. 
"When we rnnovated the down­stairs, it cost closn to $10,000 to havn a professional company do the job," she continued. "Without Saint Mary's, we wouldn't have benn abl(~ to do it." 
St. Margaret's Ilouse was targeted by Saint Mary's several months ago when SistPr Linda Kors, director of Spes Unica Voluntner Hnsource Centnr (SUHV), sought to design a program that specifically targeted one local organization. 
"St. Margaret's 
...--,...._----------, "We wanted to House is an organi­develop a relation­zation that deals ship with a commu­speeif'ieally with nity agency so that women in need," we could bnttnr said Schneider. address their needs," "Saint Mary's, being said Kors. "It.'s morn a women's college, is L.,__ __.._......__,._._.____..L..I than just going in to 
in the perfect posi­tion to help us deal with those needs." 
Sixty-five volunteers from Saint Mary's arrived at St. Margaret's Saturday to help renovate the sec­ond floor of the building, which involved painting the walls and cleaning the area. The area, expect­ed to open in mid-to late November, will function as a clothes eloset and meeting area for health and self­esteem workshops. 
"We've wanted to expand for some time," said Schneider. "We simply don't have the finances to do it on our own, which is why Saint Mary's contribution is so important. 
do something one day and then feeling good about it. Wn go in, address their nnnds, and see what we can do to help." 
The benefits of the program are twofold, including the development of a lasting relationship with the agency and the expansion of com­munity service at Saint Mary's. 
While SUHV reports that 50 to 75 pnrcent of the student body was involved in some sort of community snrvice last year, Kors still fnars that a grnat number of students are left out of the cxperinncc for a variety of reasons. 
see SERVICE I page 4 

GLND/SMC renamed to reflect new goals, focus 
By MICHELLE KRUPA 
News Editor 
Known for morn than a dPrade as Cii.Nl>/SMC, Notre Damn's unrncogniwd gay, les­bian and bisexual student orga­nization has changed its name to OUTreach ND. 
Th n nam(~ changn (WO Ived from tlw group's shift in focus from political activism to a morn snrvic(~-and support-orientnd spirit, according to executive board nwmbPrs. 
"Tiw constitution is in thn prorPss of lwing revised," said group eo-chair Alyssa 
llt~llrung." 
Cii.ND/SM<:, though not ofTi­rially rPt~ognizNI by tlw admin­istration. saw itself as tlw artivist voice of gay, lesbian and hisPxual studPnts on both cam­pusPs. speaking out as wnll as oll'l•ring support groups. 
But tlw OliTn•arh Nl> execu­tive hoard n•alizPd that not all participants want to he part of both artivism and support, arrording to Massoud. 
"I think we have to realize that just lwrause peoph~ are gay and lesbian doesn't nwan that tlu~y are activists and want to join the students' rights strug­gle," Massoud said. "It just means that they want to be sup­ported -that they are human beings." 

As the group moves away from activism, it must decide whether it will prtition tho University again for official recognition -something it denied c;I.ND/SMC. Instead, the administration formPd a UnivPrsity-sponsored group supervised by two faculty mem­bnrs. 
llellrung said gntting UnivPrsity rncognition is not among OUTreach ND's priorities right now. But it likely will top tlw agenda in future, largely bneause of what llnllrung ealls tlw group's uniqun naturn -it is run hy students. for students, whirh slw sees as an advantage. 
"Wn'r(1 not going to p(1tition for Univpr·sity recognition this ynar because we're in the i>rornss of so many changrs, and we're doing just fine how WP an1," llellrung said. "We're tlw only place whnre students can gnt support that is student­run ... We're going to focus on that and an attempt to gr.t recognition might rome in the futurn." 
Massoud said tlw emergence of the Progressive Student Alliance has enabled OUTreach ND's shift in focus. For example, PSA rocently sponsored a rally 
see OUTREACH I page 4 





Building with their bare hands 
Special to The Observer 
The Notre Dame school of architecture con­
ducted a hands-on program of brick construction 
~riday at Bond Hall. 
"Explorations in Masonry" involved all seeond­
year arehitecture students. They built fivn per­
manent sections of moek walls with the help of 
apprentices from the International Union of 
Bricklayers Local 4. The sections are on penna­
nent public display in the courtyard and will bP 
usnd in futurn years as models for teaching. 
"lit wast a fantastic opportunity for students to 
work with masons, to get dirty and really under­
stand how walls go together," said Sany 
Vitzthum, assistant professor of architecture. 
The event was co-sponsornd by the St. Joseph 
Valley Masonry Contracters, the Michiana Area 
Construetion Industry Advancement Fund and 
the lntnrnational Masonry Institute. 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
I kno-w -what you did at Reekers 
In this age of global humanitarianism, we talk an awful lot about compassion for our fellow brethren. That's fine and dandy, but if any kind of change is going to happen, it's got to happen on an individ--------­
ual level where we find  Colleen Gaughen  
ourselves most vulner- Assisranr Viewpoint  
able. That's right. In  Ediror  
public restrooms. But  
something happened  

to me last week that threatened all hopes for 
such a change. 
I was reading a novel and enjoying a latte in Heckers when I realized I needed to use the restroom. There I was, going about my business, and as I reached for the toilet paper roll I experienced every squatter's nightmare. The roll was empty. And I had foolishly forgotten to replenish the stash of travel Kleenex I keep in my backpack. 
While contemplating my dire predicament I heard the door open, and a girl entered the stall next to me. My savior! With my heart swelling at the compassion of humanity. I politely knocked on the wall separating us and said, 
"Hi. I'm so sorry to interrupt you. but I'm out of toilet paper over here. Can you pass some to me please?" 
I couldn't believe her response. "No." She actually said no! My heart sank at this capac­ity for cruelty. Here I was in my most vulner­able state of humanity and my fellow brethren denied me the most basic of human necessities. 
Completely stunned, I cried out, "Excuse me? You're not going to help me?" And again she emphatically replied, "No." Some Notre Dame family, leaving your sister in peril! 
How could anyone do this to someone?! What is this world coming to? How can we strive for global reconciliation when we can't even treat one another as human beings in the one place that epitomizes our humanity? It must start here. To all of those of you who do share toilet paper in public restrooms. I thank you! Amen! Continue your activism and concern! We need you! 
But why confine our compassion to simply passing toilet paper under the stall walls? Too often we wash our hands and run the hot air dryer in silence without even acknowledg­ing the presence of others. Why do we isolate ourselves? This isn't parietals! Break down the wall! Shatter the silence! Say hello to those around you, ask how their day is going. what their major is, where they were coming from and to where they are headed. 
And then maybe ... (sniff), just maybe we can make a change. By kindling the flame of human compassion in public restrooms, our communication and concern will grow and affect other areas of life. and then world shall know peace. But it must begin in the bath­room. It must begin with sharing toilet paper. 
The one identifying detail I had of the wretch bark at Reekers was her shoes. Bright turquoise Keds with bright white laces. (Who the hell wears shoes like that anyway?) Filled with rage, I returned to the Reekers lounge in search of my Judas. but alas to no avail. 
But mark my words Bright Turquoise Keds Girl: I will lind you. 
For threatening world peace and for high treason to humanity shall you pay! Beware, oh yes, beware the wrath of a woman wronged! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Matringly  Mike Vanegas  
Noreen Gillespie  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Scotr Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Brian Kessler  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through rriday excep1 during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the A~~ociated Press. All reproduction righh are reserved. 
Monday, October 12, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Professor disagrees with affirmative action protest 
BERKELEY, Calif. The chancellor said that, because 
Responding to students' questions it was law. he could not and would regarding a proposed faculty walk­not disobey Proposition 209. the out. UC Berkeley Chancellor Hobert 1996 statewide voter-approved mea­Berdahl told an ethnic studies class sure eliminating affirmative action yesterday that although he cannot in public institutions. support canceling classes, he docs "We will and must conform to support the right of professors to Prop. 209," Berdahl said. "The only express their opinions. alternative that we have is to invest 
"The faculty who are critical of substantial resources to make sure Proposition 209 are trying to raise that students coming out of high consciousness about affirmative Wang told students that it was school are more prepared." action," Berdahl said. "I cannot con­very hard for Berdahl to give an Many students said they believe done there not being classes. They opinion about a political issue Berdahl's administration lacked ini­have every right as faculty. however, because of his position as head of tiative in helping to recruit minority to express their concern." the university. students after Prop. 209. 
Berdahl spoke to approximately "He is bound by law; none of us Berdahl responded by pointing to 100 students as a guest lecturer in should have any doubt about his an outreach program called the Professor Ling-Chi Wang's introduc­commitment (to affirmative action)." Academic Talent Development tory ethnic studies class yesterday Wang said. "He cannot be overtly Program, which sends campus rep­morning. During the class. he associated with any political institu­resentatives into inner-city schools 
addressed a variety of topics ranging tion. He cannot lobby for or against and helps to prepare high school from the necessity of admission a law because he is an officer of the students for the university's admis­exams to his stance on the affirma-state." sion process. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY  • UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO  
First NAACP chapter makes history  Athlete reports fraternity rape  
CAMBRIDGE, Mass.  ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.  
History was made last Thursday night when about 40 stu­ On Tuesday, a member of the UNM swim team reported  
dents of varied race and ethnicity came together in the  to campus police that she had been raped on Friday night.  
Barker Center's Thompson Room to incorporate the first­ The police report states that the crime took place on  
ever Harvard chapter of the National Association for the  Fraternity How between 10 p.m. Friday, Oct. 2 and 2:33  
Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). The meeting was  a.m. Saturday, Oct. 3. The woman was tested at the Sexual  
the follow-up to a meeting helti last week with Julian Bond,  Assault Nurse Examiner's Office on Monday. and the  
the NAACP's national chair. At the earlier meeting, Bond  results of the medical examination arc now being held as  
stressed that the NAACP is not just an organization for  evidence. Police have no suspects at this time. UNM police  
blacks, and encouraged people of all races to consider mem­ Lt. James Daniels asked anyone with information about the  
bership. Kamal Latham, a student at the Kennedy School of  incident to come forward. "Anyone who knows anything  
Government (KSG) who was elected president of the  about this could be helpful in finding the perpetrator," he  
Harvard chapter last night, said Bond's opinion prompted  said. He also said he didn't know whether the rapP took  
him to revise his own notions about the NAACP. Latham said  place at a fratf'rnity party. but said a party occurred that  
the organization is different from ethnic organizations on  night. He said the police are waiting for lab results. "I went  
campus simply because "it is not an ethnic organization. It  to her house and found her with vomit on her hands and  
is just the hub of a bicycle wheel."  face and she had just woken up," said her teammate.  
• OHIO STATE  • KENT STATE  
Distributor facing legal problems  Football players entangled in law  
COLUMBUS, Ohio  KENT. Ohio  
After arresting 60 partiers. state liquor agents are now  Kent State head football coach Dean Pees faced addi­ 
going after the distributor that sold 42 kegs to a party  tional troubles this week with more players becoming  
held after last Saturday's football game against Penn  entangled with the law. One player is resting and healing  
State. The Columbus Distributing Co. may face charges  at home after an assault Saturday night, and the player  
from the Ohio Liquor Control Commission for selling the  plans on pressing charges against another player. The  
kegs to a buyer without a permit. Under the Ohio Hevised  Daily Kent Stater declined to identify the player because  
Code, kegs purchased from wholesale companies must be  he has not been charged with a crime. Wide receiver  
for home use. Otherwise, a permit must be obtained from  James Stevens was assaulted by two unknown suspects  
the Division of Liquor Control. "It is the company's  last Saturday night at the Leebrick Ilall loading dock.  
responsibility to ascertain this information from the  Stevens said another football player was behind the dri­ 
buyer," said Patty Haskins. a spokeswoman with the  ver's wheel of the vehicle that carried the alleged  
Division of Liquor Control. "They should have questioned  assailants to the fight scene. Stevens got out of his car.  
the buyer to protect their own privileges." The Columbus  and the three fought, leaving Stevens with an injurnd eye.  
Distributing Co. did not return calls made to it  The other player, who stayed in the vehicle the entire timf\  
Wednesday. Liquor agents confiscated a U-IIaul truck full  did not directly attack Stevens. Stevens was taken to  
of kegs and arrested 60 people Saturday night.  Robinson Memorial Hospital Sunday evening after the  
Commission finds that the distributor violated the law.  attack. lie underwent surgery Monday morning.  

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime condition!\ aml high temperatures 
H  L  
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday  ~ 66 ~58 ~ 56 c:=1 56 ~67  48 45 44 44 46  

4,~,~G.QQ ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu·r;tes S~o-~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Assoc1ated Press Graph1csNet 
• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Monday, Oct. 12. 
FRONTS: 

........... ~ 
~ 

~ 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Pressure: 

®©DDCJJDG21D c l$.f}M~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press 
Atlanta 55 77 Columbus 46 72 Minneapolis 35 55 
Austin 63 85 Dallas 55 84 Newark 50 65 
Baltimore 47 66 Denver 34 73 New York 52 65 
Boston 45 62 Fargo 34 52 Santa Fe 44 76 Chicago 53 67 Miami 77 86 Sacramento 51 80 
.,. ________ 
Monday, October 12, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Bllckley: science, God compatible 
By TOM ENRIGHT Nt·w!->Wrilt'r 
BPiiPI's in sdoncn and (;od aw not mutually Pxrlusivo. according to Fallwr Mirluwl Buckloy. who gavl' llu• opnning lncturn on sci­nne!' and rPiigion this wnnkPIHI at thP Lilly Follows Program in lltrrnaniti1~s and llw i\rts. 
"Nothing loss than a rnvolution has orcurnHI in LIH~ world or inquiry," said Burklny, whoso h~c­tlll'l' dn~w upon tho changing Vii~WS o(' philosophnrs and scien­tists ovnr limn. 
Burklny quotod John Dnwoy !'rom thP lirst hall' of llw twnnti­f'th cPntury, rnpnating Downy's statPmPnt that rnligion was doomnd and dying beforn the longnvity ol' tho seinntilk m1~thod. 
Bucklny contrastP<l this view, hownvnr. with that of Max l'lanrk, who saw thn finlds or rnli­gion and sdonc:n as compatible. Sdcmcn. lw said. providnd objec­tivn truth whiln rc~ligion gav1~ sub­jndivn valuns. 
Bw~kloy not('(l that past scilm­tists trind to rndelirw God as a rcmtral ordnr of 1W1mts to accom­modatn thnir scinntific belinfs, Today. hownvnr. God has rnturrwd as a force. 
"It is thn sdnntists who arn tak­ing the l1~ad !'rom the theolo­gians." said Buckley. "They ask. 'Why is thorn something rather than nothing?"' 
Bur.klny drnw l'rom thn writing­of Stnphnn llawking and otlwr physirists to givo modnrn seicm­tists' vinws on tlw possibility of God. 
ScinnrP, said Buckley. can ground thcwlogy's sean:h for a suprnnw being called God. lie pointnd out that for the grnater part of history. humanity put its trust in sdencn to answer theo­logically associated questions such as "how was the universe ernatnd'?" and "how was man creatod?" 
Bucklny noted that sometimes the "how" question can creates thn most problflms between sci­ence and religion. For example, Buckley asked how God could nxist both timnless and yet pnr­sonal within time. Drawing from Catholic theology that God is an inlinitn mystery, Buckley admit­ted that thnology accepts that such questions are unanswer­able. 
"Catholicism has found no 

great seandal in this ignoranee," he said. 
Buckley said that fundamental· eonstants found in physics pro­vidn him with the most com­polling sign of some cosmic dnsign. Scienen also provides an nxpanding finld or !'acts in which to judge theology. lin said that if theology is an alive field. thnn nvery human discipline will feed into its content. 
Since thn Universities of Europe and eolonial Amoriea treated the­ology in a scholal'ly manner, it is understandable that theology should exist in an academic con­text. 
"The quest for understanding is necessarily a collaborative one," he explained. 
Buckley is a Jesuit priest and the Canisius Collnge chair of the­ology and director of the Jesuit Institute at Boston College. He is also a historian and a philoso­pher. 
The Lilly Fellows Program Network of Colleges and Universities represents a collec­tive of Christian institutions that meet in an annual conference and coordinate various Network activities on their campuses. 

Two delicious breakfast sandwiches for just two dollars. 
(Just a little something to tide you over until lunch.) 
These two breakfast sandwiches are more than just a little something. Right now, they're also • 
a great deal. Just come into Burger King* and get the delicious CROJSSAN'WICH~ and the tasty Biscuit sandwich for just $2. That's two great-tasting breakfast sandwiches With sizzlmg sausage, egg, and melted cheese for $2. So go ahead, have both in the morning After all, you haven't eaten all day. 
(Price and participation may vary. During breakfast hours only.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
.... 
BURGER 
KING 


It just tastes better."' 

c 1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Croissan'wich, Burger King and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 


Chat focuses on Gospel, God's image 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 
Father Ken Maley tackled the symbolism in the Gospel according to John and poo­plo's diiTercnt perceptions of God in his Fireside Chat Friday. 
"Why is there no reference to the Eucharist during the last supper in .John's gospel?" asked Maley in the last of the five-part chat series. "For decades l thought that this was his way of saying that love of neighbor was equal to love of God." 
Maley explained that there is nothing accidental in John's gospel. 
H e began 
'WHAT HAPPENS IF EVERYONE
looking Maley. at the BELIEVFS THAT EVERYONE "If you 
symbol­t r e a t
ELSE IS A CHILD OF THEIRS? IF YOU 
ism in every­
t h e TREAT EVERYfHlNG AS JF YOU HAD thing as 
Bible A PART JN CREATING IT, ALL PROB­if you more had a
LEMS WOULD GO AWAY.'
than 30 
years a g o , drawing from his experi­ence in dream therapy to interpret symbolic meanings. 
"John was a mystic,'' said Maley. "[They}work in words and symbols." 
Maley pointed out that feet represented the idea of "under standing," or under­standing, when referring to John's account of Jesus washing the feet of his disci­ples.. Thus, according to Maley, our metaphorical feet need washing to understand John's gospel. 
Such a statement would have especially attacked the elaborate Jewish customs and presumptions of John's day. This message of cleans­ing provedso strong and Jesus' message so radical, said Maley. that John believed we needed to start over with Revelation. 
Drawing from a book enti­tled "Quantum Spirituality: Spiritual Implications of the New Physics," Maley explained how agrarian life provided the beginnings for religion. 
Once humans learned to control and manipulate their environment. they took the next st(lp of reshaping the idea of God. he said. Maley believnd that when love and the law became mixed. mercy appearf\d. 
Jesus' message of love built upon this idea of a law-giving God. Recalling a boy he saw in the Holy Land yelling "abba" at his father, Maley expressed the idea that every problem could be solved if all humans viewed the rest of humanity as something they created. 
"What happens if everyontl believes that everyone else is 
a child 
0 f 
theirs'!" 
asked 

part in  
ereating  
FATHER KEN MAl.EY  It, allprob­ 
lems  
would  
go away."  

Drawing from this idea. Maley said that as humanity evolved, it came to under­stand God literally as a father or parent. He said if he could take the essence of a human and blow it up, he would have God. In such a way, then, each human becomes a holographic image of God. 
Midey recognized that many peoplo would havo problems with this idea. 
"Many of us grew up in families where we were not told that we were the great­est thing that existed," he said. 
Addressing questions about how he explained the destructive elements of God. Maley answered that he did not believe a destructive side of God exists. 
"I have not figurod out the perception of evil in the world," he said. "Things I once eonsidered evil often turned out to be saving things in my life." 


The St. Vincent de Paul Bring a friend!!!!!! Society's mission is to put faith into action by loving 
Any Questions'? 
and serving as Jesus did. 

Call Peggy at 25 1-4906 to 
Come and see how you can have them aswered!!!!! join in this mission!!! 
• 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 12, 1998 
Service 
continued from page 1 
"A lot of students want to get involved [with community service] on a weekly or monthly basis, but because of classwork and other activities, it can be hard to figure out how to do it," said Kors. "[Saint Mary's in the City] offers students a chance to do something for one day and connect with the community. even if it's only going to paint walls." 
Junior Jamie Auerbach was one of those students. "I haven't really had time to 

• volunteer on a consistent basis this semester, but it's some­thing that I really enjoy, and I think that everyone should try it," she said. ''I'm glad that I was able to come out and work. It's about more than just interac­tion; some­times what we're doing 
'WE NEVER COULD 
-like paint­room is ing and HAVE DONE THIS opened. 
cleaning up WITHOUT THE WOMEN OF There is a lot can be that we can more benefi-SAINT MARY'S. WE ARE do to help 
cial than VERY, VERY GRATERJL.' specifically interacting staff St. with people." Margaret's." 
Another KATHY SCHNEIDER K o r s obstacle stu­DIREC1VR. ST. MARGARET'S HOUSE eX preS S e d 
future volunteer opportunities. 
"A lot of the student volun­teers were talking to the St. Margaret's volunteers, asking questions, finding out what they can do to help," said Kors. "It's great to see that volunteer relationship starting -that's where the value of these things is." 
The volunteer relationship is something that Schneider is excited about cultivating. 
''I'm looking forward to hav­ing a close relationship with Saint Mary's," said Schneider. "Our women can use the help. The students can also benefit because our women are great teachers in life issues. These women can learn from each other." 
Kors also expressed hope that students would continue to develop the relationship. 
"Once the second floor is opened, students can help staff the clothes room," said Kors. "We can also have a party when the 
dents face in volunteering on a regular basis is trans­portation. something that Saint Mary's in the City pro­vided. 
"It's easier now that I've brought my car to do things on a consistent basis," said Suzanne Webber, a sopho­more. "It's really great when a lot of people come together for an effort like this." 
"Generally, college students live pretty sheltered lives," she added. "It's almost backwards the way that we're sent here to prepare for the real world, and then don't know much about it. Community service integrates those things." 
Furthermore. Kors said. one-day events such as Saint Mary's in the City can often serve as a springboard for 
hope that the project will be continued next year. 
"Right now, we're focusing on finishing what we've start­ed and developing our rela­tionship with St. Margaret's," she said. "If we see that St. Margaret's still has needs that we can help, we'll continue to do what we can. Right now, they have more needs. If we target another agency next year, Saint Mary's in the City will do the same thing." 
The project's impact, according to Schneider, is invaluable. 
"We never could have done this without the women of Saint Mary's. We are very, very grateful. We look for­ward to seeing them come help at St. Margaret's in the future." 
C\ot News? 1-5323 
Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. 
The next class starts 1 0/26! 

1-800-KAP-TEST 

www.kaplan.com 
'GMAT Is a registered trademar1< of the Graduate Management Admission Council. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 




Outreach 
continued from page 1 
for inclusion of sexual-orienta­tion in the University's non-dis­crimination clause, a venture that would normally have been undertaken by GLND/SMC. 
Massoud said the group will also organize service-oriented activities, such as preparing lunches for the Center for the Homeless. Massoud stressed that its support groups will not disband and will still help mem­bers deal with their personal experiences with sexuality. 
The group's official renaming comes on the heels of Sunday's National Coming Out Day and the Academic Council's willing­ness to consider adding sexual orientation to the University's non-discrimination clause. 
"We wanted [to change the name] on a special day," Hellrung said. "We've sort of been going around as OUTreach NO for a month or so, but a lot of people didn't know who we were. Now they know that we're not just some random group, but that we have a long history at Notre Dame." 

For time and location of 1neeting, call: 1-8041 NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. To1n Gaughan, C.S.C Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
ey Seniors: ,Q)ctoDer 12th 
• 



Class 



Monday, Octoher 12, 1998 Civilians watch as an American B-52 bomber lands at an air base in Britain. 


US bombers prepare for Kosovo action 
• WORLD Nr.vv:-: BRIEfS 
Muslims protest scarf policy 
i\NKAHA 
Thousands of' Muslims dmnonstrators joitwd 

hands and marr.lwd Sunday throughout 
Turkf'y to protPst a ban on Islamic-styli) lwad 
srarVI's in srhools and public ofliens. l'olien 
shot and killl'd otw pPrson in an argumf'nt 
oVPr a trallk jam causnd by tlw proll~sts. Tlw 
:\natolia nPws ag~mcy said the shooting took 
plan• in tlw ~~astnrn rity of Elazig, wlwn a 
group of' sorenr l'ans on thnir way to a match 
got slurk in a trafl'ir jam caused by tlw 
dl'monstration. It said polil:n opPnPd l'in~. 
killing a 2:i-y!'ar-old SIH:ef'r l'an and wounding 
two ollwrs. Tlw marclws in Istanbul. Ankara, 
lzmir and at )past l'ight smallf'r tO\vns and 
ritil's wnn• tlw largPst dmnonstration against 
tlw han sinrn uniwrsitins last month rnf'usod 
to l'f•gisl.f'r wolllf'll who l'ailnd to submit (() 
photographs with bar!' hnads. l'roti)Stnrs. 
mostly womPn in searvns or blark Islamic 
rhadors. rarriPd bamwrs rnading "Wn Want 
Our l!ight To l·:ducation Bark," and "Hespnct 
lklil'l'. Fri'P Thought." 
Bombs strike Corsican ports 
BASTI;\ 
Thn•f' bombs PxplodPd minutns apart l'rom 

Parh otlwr Sunday aftPrnoon in Corsica's two 
main ports, in thn.latnst attacks during a gov­
l•rnmPnt rrarkdown on llw Frmll'.h island. 
Tlwr" was no rlaim of' n~sponsibility l'or the 
blasts. which caused sonw damagn but no 
injuriPs. But suspicion I'PII on Corsican mili­
tants waging a 23-yf\ar-old campaign for 
grl'atnr autonomy. The lirst explosion targnt­
Pd a building adjoining lax ollicns in llw r:l'n­
tPr of' Bastia on the nortlwrn l'nd of the rocky 
island, polief) ol'l'icials said on customary 
anonymity. ;\ li\W minutes later, a two explo­
sions orrutTed twar tlw ermtnr of i\jaecio on 
tlw wnstl'rn sidn of' Corsica. One blast struck a 
garage lwlonging to tlw state utility Elcctridte 
dn Franct), and tlw otlwr a government trea­
sury ullin~. 
Yeltsin cancels ceremony 
Ti\SIIKENT, Uzbekistan 
l'rPsidl'nt Boris Ydtsin, on his lirst trip out 

of llussia sincr• May. canceled a welcoming 
t'f•n•mony in Uzlwkistan on Sunday bncause 
lw wasn't I'I'Piing wPII, his spokr1sman said. 
Yf'!tsin app1•an~d stiff during anotlwr public 
appP;u·atH'l' al'tPr arriving in Tashkent. the 
capitnl of this C:Pntral Asian nation. At ono 
point. lw stumblPd and had to be supported 
by Uzlwk l'rPsidPnt Islam Karimov. But the 
two latPr lwld a otHHllHliW summit as sdwd­
tt!Pd. Thn trip is Yeltsin's first high-profile 
l'oray sitH'l' an Pr.onomie rTisis swampnd his 
rountry in August. The 67-year-old president 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BELGRADE 
U.S. bombers moved into position for possible NATO airstrikos on Yugoslavia and a U.S. envoy acceler­ated talks with President Slobodan Milosevic on Sunday after reporting no change in the loader's tough stand on Kosovo. 
Hichard llolbrookn and Milosevic held discussions Jato into the night Sunday, meeting for the sixth time in snvon days in talks that signaled U.S. determination to srmrch for a peace­ful way out of the deadlock. 
Ilolbrookc said early Sunday that he would "continue an intense effort ro tind a peaceful, acceptable, fully veri­liable compliance system as an alter­native to the other choice" -mean­ing the usn of force. 
But he also said NATO would meet today to authorize action if his media-lion effort fails. 
In Washington, national security adviser Sandy Berger told CNN that Milosevic "is not in compliance as of 
'this point." 
"He can come into compliance or he can face military action by NATO" at any time, Berger said. 
The Americans and Europeans are demanding that Milosevic halt the 
crackdown he  launched  Feb.  28  
against  the  separatist  Kosovo  
Liberation Army.  

The major obstacle appears to be llolbrooke's demand that Milosevic agree to an expanded international monitoring mission to verify compli­ance with demands of the U.N. Security Council. 
Those demands include an immedi­ate cease-fire, a withdrawal of special troops in the province, allowing refugees to return home and begin­ning talks with ethnic Albanians on 
AFP Photo 
Kosovo's future. 
Kosovo is a province of Serbia, thn main republic of Yugoslavia. ;\bout 90 percent of its 2 million people are ethnic Albanian, and most of thnm want indnpendenee or substantial self-rule. 
Meanwhile, journalists heard spo­radic gunfire Sunday and saw whitn and gray smoke rising from about six houses in the ethnic Albanian village of Makrmalj, about 20 miles west of Pristina. 
Ethnic Albanian rebels daimed thn aetivity was part of a Snrh polir:e operation. Police prnvenll~d thn jour­nalists from getting dosnr than about a half-mile from the villagf1. 
The Pnntagon is eontinuing military prnparations if llolbrooke's mission fails. Six U.S. B-52 bombers arrivnd in Britain on Sunday and a mntingnnt of ;\-1 0 anti-tank planes flow l'rom Germany to Italy. 
has Slll'lll most of tlw last two months out of thP linwlight and out ol' th!) Kremlin, holding lllPf'tings in his country home outside Mosrow. 
Market Watch: 10/9 Dow 
AMEX: 
574.73
./ONES 
•10. 98 tJpl 
7 508Nasdaq: 
1492.49 
+73.37 
NYSE: 
486.70 
+9.50 
S&P 500: 
984.32 
Composite
<~4. 88



rr •
Volume: 

+167.61 1,114,400 
VOLUME LEADERS 

~QI:IU.W: U~l!ii.B ~ !;;U&UII:Ii I ~tl i!BI~ 
,,_.,

· · !•.RoUP olO. SS • l. 1750 )'.:•. 37'1 MJ 1 Ar~• ·~PO •'J.61 ., 112 ~. ~6. ]7~ HER~ll.l. LYNt H MER •7 39 .:i .1250 " 411~ 
,,r·-·-~AL 
c;E •1. Jl •0.1))7') 72.:. ,"ilA MANHATTAN , MR ,, 70 •!.H25 42.fH25 Al.!.t.t I ANn. A. EM •41 )0 ·9, 5000 )i'. ~ RAN KAMER I c'A SAC .. g,n t4 '6250 1!4. 00 : !!:·=·~r t.U t6 '01 d.S625 62.8125 MORVAN r DEAN MWD +10 .54 •4. 3150 4rl, 875
.. 

:'ENDAN'l' ("0 +22 .03 --1.6250 9. 00 
• VATICAN CtTV 

Pope decrees Jewish-born saint 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 

VATICAN CITY 
Undet· towering marble figures of tho Jews who founded Christianity, Pope John Paul II on Sunday d11creed the first Jewish­born saint of the modern era: Edith Stein, a nun killed in tho gas chambers of Auschwitz. 
From now on. the pope said, Catholies should eom­memorate all the llolocaust.'s murdered Jews flaeh year when they mark the day Stein died -Aug. 9. 
"In the martyr Sister Teresa Benedicta of the Cross so many differences meet and are resolved in 
.. 

peace," John Paul, using the name Stein chose when she became a nun. told the thousands filling St. Peter's Square. 
"The value of her testimo­ny is to render ever stronger the bridge of mutu­al understanding between Christians and Jews," he said, calling Stein an "emi­nent daughter ot' Israel and a faithful daughter of the church." 
It was a day filled with remarkable gestures ot' rec­onciliation: The Roman Catholie Church putting all its ceremony, pomp and grandeur into a tribute to a woman of Jewish ·heritage. Relatives of Holocaust vic­tims -Stein's family ­sharing a dais with the leader of Germany, Chancellor Helmut Kohl. 
Stein is believed to be the first Jewish-born saint since the early days of the church. said the Rev. Simion Fernandez, who oversaw the process toward canon­ization. Incornplete records and the prevahmce of con­versions, voluntary and forced, make it impossible to verify the daim. 
Stein was born into an Orthodox Jewish Gorman family on Yom Kippur, the Jewish Day ofAtonement, in 1891. An atheist, she joined the Roman Catholic Church in 1922 and later became a Cat•melite nun. 
In 1942, Adolf Hitler's regime ordered all the con· verts in the Netherlands shippod to Auschwitz to punish the Duteh bishops for spPaking out against it. 
Stein WitS ol'f'er·~>d a chance to oscapo deporta­tion, the pope said, but turned it down. 
''Why should I be oxclud­ed'!" he quoted her as say­ing. 
"If' I eannot shar11 th0 f'atP of my brothers and sister·s. my life is. in a certain way, destroynd. '' 
Stein was in a chapel praying with nuns of her order when th1~ Nazis eanw to arrest her. 

---~-~-­
VIEWPOINT 
page 6 os~ERVER Monday, October 12, 1998 

Grading the Fighting Irish: 'W' 
(Sung to Jingle Bells) ASU, Shame on You. Redmond's run away. Oh my gosh, Another loss, In a season down the drain. Hunning through the field, With an option quarterback, Following Rosie's shield, Notre Dame is Back. Domers out each night, With movies at the Snite, Oh what fun, it is to write, 'Bout a season looking Bright! 
Kevin Patrick 

Notre Dame, 
Bless that name, 
Colletto's not the same, 
Here we go, 
Against another foe, 
'Cause Army's on the way! 
See, I write jingles when we win. This game was a huge test for Notre Dame. Not because Arizona State is a great ball club (they most certainly are not), but because this game had much of the Michigan State massacre potentially hiding behind curtain No. 1: a road game. under hostile circumstances, against a talented team (there is a huge difference between talented and good) who needs to salvage a season. 
Notre Dame did its part in furthering this awful line of thinking by getting a penalty before the game even began (that's an accomplishment). Then the defense uses a time-out on their first series. The avalanche was eoming. Joey Getherall then fields a punt he never should have fielded (when you are standing around the 15 or 20 and you find yourself sprinting backwards to field the punt, you should probably real­ize it is going into the end-zone). 
However, by this time, the six inches we were short that separates an ASU victory from the MSU massacre had already been made up. Brock Williams, my game MVP, had already saved the 80-yard touchdown that MSU buried us with on the first series. His blanket cov­erage was better than the a drunk Terminator stalking their prey at Coach's. He was far from finished though. ASU still had the MSU massacre on their agenda for Saturday. They returned our punt to our 40 for their. second possession. · 
They basically had a scoring drive predicated on punting (don't worry Hunter Smith was going to win on this day). Again, Brock Williams says, "not so fast my friend" as he picks ofT an errant pass at the 13-yard line. It was clear he came to play, as he has all sea­son. 
Sidenote: Lee Corso is an idiot. His pre-game comments were that Notre Dame was going to melt under the Arizona heat and ASU would take over in the 4th quarter. I received a phone call right after that prediction. My friend said, "We're safe, Corso just picked ASU." Anyway, in years gone by, the Notre Dame football team left an indeli­ble impression on their opponent's land­scape. The legends of Joe Thiesman, Chris Zorich. and Rick Mirer still haunt the campuses that opposed us in the 70s, 80s and 90s. Unfortunately, due to the laek of a "nationally recognized" speaker at graduations, it takes the Student Affairs All-Americans to paint the Arizona "A" blue and gold on the side of a mountain for the student body to leave their mark. 
But the football team was still strug­gling. While we had scored following the Brock Williams interception on a nice drive, we were buried deep in our own territory (the worst situation for a punter) and we needed even more of a lift. In walks Hunter Smith with one of the best punts you will ever see-75 yards in the air and a 4-yard roll just for good measure. Notre Dame was no longer going to teeter on the edge of that cliff MSU was able to push us off. Hunter had given us some breathing room. It was time to kick some [bum]. 
Ajani Sanders followed this cathartic punt with a stellar interception and an excellent return for a touchdown. This is a man who deserves all of the praise, publicity and spoils of his actions. He has done more for the Notre Dame defense in relative anonymity than any one of his much more heralded team­mates this year. He has also done it with class and dignity. If you see him arouna campus, let him know. 
A huge amount of the credit must go to the offensive scheme. We did not put a lot of points on the board, but we con­trolled the game, the clock and the crowd. Autry Denson was not the entire focus of the offense. If he had been, we probably would have lost. ASU was geared up to stop both Jarious and Autry on the outside. Great blocking up front by the offensive line and great running by Jamie Spencer and Joey Goodspeed is where Notre Dame won the game on the offensive side of the ball. With that, I extend a heart-felt compliment and congratulations to Jim Colletto. 
By the way, what was going on with the blackout. Did Keith Jackson spill his martini on the control panel? It was probably midway through the third quarter before either he or Bob Griese realized the broadcast was not on or that the game was under way. What do you do with all that time on your hands? Apparently if you are a bunch of girls drinking at Coach's, you talk about sex. But I'll leave that to them and their con­fessor. 
A lot of people asked me what grade I would give Notre Dame for this game. I am struggling between a B and a B-. A B-seems a bit harsh for a tough road win. But a B seems a bit generous. The eontradictions in this football team can be seen in the defensive backfield. This column has raved about their play on Saturday. But you must take them as a unit, which means including Devron "Call me Pele" Harper. In the immortal words of Saturday Night Live, "What were you thinking?" 
Note to Coach Davie: Benching a play­er sends the message that you are extremely put out by his performance. Screaming at the player docs not improve their play, it only gets them mad at YOU -not the opponent. 
Note to IJevron: Yelling back at coaches just increases the likelihood you will be benehed in the future (if the coach has a spine). 
I think the grade I will give the Irish is a W, for Win. The Army game is next and as always, the service academies will put forth a better effort than any of our opponents this year. They arc prob­ably no where near as talented as Arizona State, but they will not wilt in the fourth quarter or gift wrap turnoveh like ASU. Fan support will bn crucial, so eome back early to give your classmates a lift. Then we can hope to see a blowout so the back-ups can get a lot of game-time snaps. With a raucous crowd, and the Irish well ahead, all 10,000 students can start the all impor­tant chant whose origins arc unknown but whose eompclling nature overcomes you, foreing you to join in: Put in Grady, Put in Grady, Put in Grady ... 
Kevin Patrick is a 4th year JD/MBA who can be reached at kevin. d.patrick.16@nd. edu. 
The oiews expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

• DooNESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'californians are a race 
of people; they are not merely inhabitants of a state." 
-O.Henry 



VIEWPOINT 
Monday, October 12, 1998 
page 7 

• l ; t TERS TO THE EDITOR 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Where's the Representation? 
Lack ofIntelligent 
Tho rPI'Pnt niTort by the Standing Committee authentic yet unrecognized student group. con-on (;ay and l.1~sbian Student Nemls to establish tinues its endless sojourn from one meeting a "Network" of safe sp<H:I~S for individuals with space to another without any real home. 

Dialogue at Notre 
minority sexual orientation is probably well-Father Garrick, who embodies the unreason­intnndf'~l. able idnal demanded of' all gay Catholics, But in yf't anotlwr ironi1: twist in thn rwver-packed his bags last year. The juxtaposition of PrHiing saga of blunders by tlw Notn~ Darn1• the Word of God with the flimsy gestures by 

Dame Disturbing 
administration and its minions, tho symbol indi-Notre Damn is nqual parts pretension, 
rating a safe span~ portrays the rainbow flag hypocrisy, and gall. Rather than casting any I personally did not attend the recent non-discrimination 
(thn symbol of gay pride) upside-down. Thn red real light on the issues at hand, the Dome has rally because of a conflicting class scheduln, but 1 can imag­
stripP hPlongs on tlw top, purpln on thn bottom. generated only deaf'nning silence, excuses, mis­
ine the kind of people who did. It was probably about the ls this nit-pirking't Not if' you an~ a nwrnlH~r of placed Bible quotes, flowery language, window 
same group of people that has attended similar events in the 
thf' group rl'prl~sented. Symbols are important. dressing, and now upside-down rainbow flags 
past, the ones who agree that the University should seHk II matters. all over campus. 
complete removal of discriminatory policies.This mistake suggests a lack of' g~muirw l'amil-In the future I would suggest that any repre-
The majority of the campus, I would venture to say, was iarity with gay cultun• within tlw c:omrnitten snntative body making decisions about thn wnl­
content to stay away and not support thosn students and fac­
dnsignatnd to addrPss tlw rweds of gay and IPs-fare of' gays and lesbians make the effort to eon­
ulty whom revision of the non-discrimination clause would hian nH•mlwrs or tho Notrn Damn r.omrnunity. I suit with gays and lesbians. GLND/SMC is 
support. Many people are afraid of being labeled.gay, and llf'linvl' that tlw individuals on tlw wmmittne always dose at hand, and the 700-plus mem­
therefore refuse to show support. Still others simply disagre(~
haVI' a compassionatn dnsin~ to irnprovo the eli-bnrs of Cay and Losbian Alumni of Notre Dame with the rally and therefore chose not to attend it. Therein 
maw al Notn~ Danw (I undnrstand at liHtst two and Saint Mary's Collnge (GALA-ND/SMC) are 
lie two problems. The group afraid to be labeled is showingnwmlwrs an• gay or IPsbian), but wlwrn have quite nagnr to be heard as well. They could 
an enormous cowardice, therefore deserves no respeet, and tlwy benn? have straightened out the flag before it was sent 
has cheated itself out of supporting something that it Last ye<u· tlw StmkP Foundation nwrrily to the printers. Why weren't they asked? 
believes in. The group who disagrees (and this can include sPrvnd up a SIH~mingly nndlnss paradn of "acad-I am fully aware that a significant number of 
those who have no really strong opinion either way), lost out 
Pllli!'" lnrturPs with arcompanying diatrib1~s in caring faculty and staff have much to offer stu­
by not attending because of the missed opportunity to learn tlw ViPwpoint sPction of The ObservPr (freP of dents in nend of guidancn. I also acknowledge 
more about the movement. rhargP, 1 suppose). all of which !'an bn summed that the misdeeds of the Administration do not 
As one of the top universities in one of the leading nations up in two unforgiving words: "chang1~" and accurately refleet the caring community that 
in the world, we as a whole should never shy away from "rhastP." WlwrP WI'I'!' tlw visiting !PI:tun~rs to thrives at Notre Dame. I truly hope many facul­
learning, which is something people hero do too often. Large!'ount.nr tlw viPws or tlw Strakn brigacll~'? It's ty and staff members continue to display the 
numbers of people are content to learn about the news and !'!Par that <;I.ND/SMC doesn't havn mueh of a Network symbol and that students take advan­
form opinions based solely on one-sided opinion columns 
hudgPI. Couldn't tlw Standing Committoo bud-tage of this impliod welcome. The students 
and on the opinions of their friends. In many cases, it is nflc­g1~t afford to lmul a bit of balancn to tlw disc~us-could use a plaee to vent about the lack of legal 
essary to learn about things from secondary sources. sion in tlw acadnmic. tradition in which the protection for people like themselves. With that 
However, we need to make sure we Jearn about all sides of.' StrakP snrins purporiPd to engag1~'? Did tho in mind. I wonder if the "Network" symbols are 
an issue. Standing Committen takn a position on tho truly displayed outside the offices ofVice President 
Read Right Reason, and then Common Sense, and then unfortunatP n~signation or Fat.lwr David Patricia O'Hara, Directory of Campus Ministry 
throw them both away and form your own opinions. By sim· 
(;arrick'J Dons tho Standing Commitllw have any Hichard Warner, or Prnsident Malloy? I may 
ply having a real, objective conversation (that is one not opinions at all'! have to cheek that our for myself next time I am 
involving the words fag, sucks, retarded, etc.) with anyone, !\ furtlwr insult is tlw inclusion of Biblo quota-on campus. 
regardless of their beliefs, we can learn a lot. In the case of lions in both tlw "Spirit of Inclusion" 
the rally last week, it was a great opportunity to learn about ("Stralll{f'I'S and sojournnrs no longnr ... " Francis A. Feeley '90 
the issues facing our University from a primary souren. So 1·:pl11•sians 2: I1)) and tlw "Nf'twork" symbol Chicago, IL 
what if you hate gay people, you might have seen something( "WhoPvnr wnlconws you on my account wel­October II, 1998 
that made you realize that they are people who deserve 
ronws mo ... " Luko 9:4H). (;LND/SMC, tlw equality just as much as tho rost of us. So what If' you 
already support tho revision of the clause unconditionally.
We Need Courage to Challenge 
maybe you would gain a stronger argument to discuss by 
attending. The lack of' intolllgent conversation that goes on 
here regarding issues concerning both world and campus is

Rampant Hatred at ND 
alarming. Aren't we to be the deeision makers of the next 
few decades? 

As I walkPd homo from PE to Morrissey. my a magazine that spreads homophobia and When I refer to a lack of dialogue on important issues, I lu•ad was lillnd with the words of hate whieh I raeisrn from behind a thin veil of Catholicism. 
am not only referring to the student body. Throughout the 
had just !ward on our supposndly Catholic earn­We sit around and tell racist and sexist jokes, past few years, numerous students and faculty alike have pus. we write cute inscriptions· like, "Mike is a fag­thoughtfully questioned many moves made by thtl adminis­MomPnts boforP, I had benn sitting in tho got" on our roommates wipe boards, or we tration. I am not trying to say that each of these moves was lobby or Pasqtwrilla East wlwre I had witnessed prank call our fellow students to leave them wrong, but the lack of suftident explanation and student/fac­a ronvorsation lwtwoPn four freshmen. Onn of voPte mail messages saying, "You're a homo!" 
ulty input in the decisions is disturbing.
tho studnnts had ripped the postor for the Meanwhile, the PSA, an organization who's Suppression of information is another perplexing issue(;ay/Lnshian support group off thn front door, goal is something so subversive as creating a fully endorsed by the administration. Some occurrences may was loudly declaiming that. "llornosoxuals do peaceful and harmonious society for all stu­go against our morals and opinions. and some may even not lwlong at Notro Dame," and that he was dents, is mocked and ridiculed, called a bunch of repulse us, but that does not mean they do not exist. By notgoing to burn the sign. The terribl1~ irony in the "vegetarian baby-killers." Meanwhile, any 
learning about even the unpleasant parts of the world we 
situation conws from thn fact that this young minority who docs speak out about the oppres­live in, we are denying a true edueation and fostering grossman was WIHtring a "What Would Jesus Do" sion he or she faces here is ridiculed and told ignorance. Not learning about the truo nature of abortion,bracnlf'l. I'm not surn about you. but I don't basically to "suek it up," that they have it easy. 
for instance, may prevent someone from effectively helpingthink .Jesus would deny a highnr education to Meanwhile, numerous students are too afraid to to convince a friend not to abort. Can we be content with the sonwonn simply becaus1~ they love a member of admit their sexual orientation to their friends, fact that we have only learned about those things that ourthPir own gender. beeause they know the pure hatred and anger to administrators deemed Catholic, and decent enough? OurI was quitn shocked to see sud1 a blatant and which they would be subjecting themselves. This administration is not going to be there to protect us afterpublic display of pun~ hate and discrimination. It all seems quite hypocritical corning from the stu­graduation, and if our religious training and learning at this rnally disturbed me, and it started rnn thinking dents of a Catholic university who are taught to University were not enough to let us know the right doeisions about tlw racism, homophobia, and sexism that love, to accept each other, no matter what our to make, then Notre Dame has failed us twice through lack ran he found running rampant on this campus. differences, no matter our shortcomings. 
of education.

.lust a few minutes after this first ineident, I Look around, and you'll see we are quite a My mother once taught me that the only way to learn if youovnrlward two other conversations.Thn first: long way away from this. We arc unable to look were truly unprejudiced was to get to know somebody who "Man, l'vn got an lereetionl." past skin color, gender, or something as truly as was different from you, and to dislike them for a reason"Wnll, you should get with I Name I." unimportant as sexual orientation. That would other than their difference from you.This might sound a bit"llnllno, I wouldn't touch that fat [expletive]." require understanding, compassion, time and strange, but if you think about it, it makes a lot of sense. 
Thn second conversation followod along simi-effort. It's much easier for all of us instead to When you hate somebody because of something that is dif­lar lines, expect it ended with "Yeah, I got to get simply label each other, to avoid contact and ferent about them, you never give yourself a chance to meetwith one of tlwm McGlinn ehieks." understanding, and to hate from a distance. 
them fully. or to sit and discuss with them. However, when Both thesn conversations occurred within a I'm not sure what l expect to aehieve through you meet someone who is different from you, and you dislike minute or two of each other of each other, and this Jetter. Chances are, those people who most something about them besides their most obvious difference, (;od knows I've heard too many similar convnr­need to think about what I have said will be you are justified in your dislike. This shows that you have sations ovN the years to evnn attempt to count. most likely to dismiss this letter outright. I sim­truly gotten to know the person, and can make your judg­ll just happened that at this time, I was extra ply know that I want to speak up, and that I ment based on their character, not their imperfections.
sensitive to the misogyny of these m1m. have been inspired to do so by the most amazing When you blow off an issue or even another person asWe ar·1~ all lwre at Notre Damn, a university person I know, my girlfriend. Because, tonight, ''dumb," you have not educated yourself. and therefor11 yourbased on a religion that advocates love and when we sat in the lobby of her dorm and heard opinion is worthless. Omitting sections of society beeause IHIUality. Wn Catholies have been callnd time those vnnornous words spoken, I just sat there. I they are hard to deal with or understand serves only to limit and again by the Church and our Scriptum to did not stand up for my beliefs, I did not defend yourself, and confine yourself within your ignorance.
love earh otlwr, to n~spnet our fellow man. Yet. my gay friends who were not there to defend lu•rn, at this bastion of the faith, the cry of themselves, I did not challenge thn hatred I saw 
Guerin Gray 

"Faggots" IH:hoes through our pep rallies. Our before me. But she did. 
Junior, Morrissey Manor 

administration pushes one of tlw best professors 
October 9, 1998

I have ever met, a man of great strength and Patrick W ackerly character, to resign, simply because he was a Junior, Morrisey Manor homosnxual. We publish and rnad Hight Heason, October 3, 1998 

pageS-------------------------------------------------------------------------Monday, October 12, 1998 


Please pray for Eddie Murphy's 
It's not 'Beverly Hills Cop.' Nor is it 'The Nutty Yep. It's an Eddie Murphy in the mold of such Professor.' But which Eddie Murphy actually films as 'Metro' and 'A Vampire in Brooklyn.'

comeback
shows up in his latest? 'Holy Man' is another dud. 
"Holy Man" 

Director: jonathan Demme Starring: Eddie Murphy, jeffGoldblum, Kelly Preston, Robert Loggia andJohn Cryer 

(Out offive shamrocks) 

By MIKE McMORROW Scene Movie Critic 

and passions 
of the media. 
E d d i e Murphy should not get scripts for morality plays,but rather for comedies. 

The acting in "Holy Man" somewhat parallels "The Wedding Singer," because it does not allow Adam Sandler to unleash. Photo courtesy of Touchstone Pictures 
The same Eddie Murphy stars in "Holy Man" with Jeff Goldblum. After two suc­goes for cessful summer movies ("Mulan" and "Dr. Dolittle") Murphy returns to failure.
Murphy with 
"Holy Man." 

comedy that's not funny, it's a satireHere is a suggestion. Take a look at that's terribly awkward or a morality
those dinner-table scene~ in "The 
play that's painful­ly overwrought. "Holy Man," which looks like an attempt at all three, faces this problem as well. And we will not even mention the "love story" between Goldblum and Kelly Preston that has no syner­gy with thn rest of the movie, much less chemistry between the two players. 
llow much more of this can the movie-going public take? Murphy has made it a habit in recent years to be completely incon­

Photo courtesy of Touchstone Pictures sistent in scriptAbove is a typical scene in "Holy Man," as Eddie Murphy demon­
choices, so how arfl strates his charisma and 'holiness' on a home shopping channel. 

we to expect any­thing else?
Nutty Professor" and then decide if Optimists like myself thought that you want an unreserved Murphy. No after "The Nutty Professor" and "Dr.

takers? "Holy Man" certainly is not 

Dolittle," he was back on track. Butfor you. 
"Holy Man's" only real function seems
If there's anything worse than a 

• HEY, THAT'S NOT AMOVIE 

Midway brings home the action ofthe arcade hit "NFL Blitz' to Nintendo 64 and Sony Play station 
By EMMETT MALLOY Assistant Scene Editor 
Over the years, video football games have become so increasingly difficult and eomplex that Organic Chemistry homework seems a Jot easier to under­stand. Back in the glory days of the 8­bit Nintendo, the nmson why football games were so fun and addicting was because they were extremely simple. Now in the days of Playstations and Nintendo-64s, the controllers are laden with a million buttons, and the instruction books seem foreign. 
Sure, simulation rootball games should be as real as possible, but at the same time, they should be fun. 
:made "NBAJam," "NFLJllitz" has been an instant hit at arcades. And although the ·translations· to the home formats may not look or sound as pret­ty, the game play is basically the same. What "NFL Blitz" does 
Hail Mary. And if you go do is take the bare essentials with a fake punt, you can of footba:Il and absolutely see how fast your punter 
exploit them. can put the peddle to the 
For starters, the game is metal as he scrambles down bereft of any penalties, mean­the field. ing you can nail a receiver Even if you are all about before he has the ball. Second, hyper-realism in video a first down is 30 yards, but games, you cannot watch given the speed and scope of this game without begging "NFL Blitz," getting a first to play, because of the down every 10 yards would addictive nature of it. 
have been way too easy. It only takes seconds until 
The coolest features, howev­you realize why "NFL Blitz" er, are the players, who were is being hailed as the best drawn to look like a bunch of football game over. Whether steroid-dependent monsters. you're playing against a 
Unlike many other video buddy or the computer, the football games, the defensive game is remarkably game is actually fun. Given engrossing and addicting. their strength and size, the Even those who could care linebackers don't just sack a less about sports ganws or quarterback -they literally video games in general are throw him. You can grab a not immune to Blitz's running back by the arm and incredible game play. fling him across the field. Are 
you mad that the show-off 
) . ) )
.

·receiver caught the ball? Just use a The offense is just as twisted. The 
take youl' man and wipe out other players just standing around. Or if you are really a poor sport, you can spoil your opponent's touchdown celebra­tion by hurling him into the stands. 


game features 18 offensive plays, and although this may be meager com­pared to other football games, no one really follows them. 
A running play can easily turn into a 
"NFL Blitz," available for N64 and pummel-driver a-la-WCW style and quarterbacks throw bullet passes, and Jl) Jl) Jl) Jl) J 
Playstation, does just that and more. 
release all your frustrations on him. the lightning-fast receivers manage to D-esigned by the same team that Even after the play is dead, you can catch anything thrown to them. The (Out of five shamrocks) 




IRISH INSIDER 

O THE 
Monday, October 12, 1998 BSERVER page 1 

By JOEY CAVA TO  Goodspef~cl said.  "Me, [and the other full­ crowed.  execute the way  we  wanted to, the  
A,sociarr Sporrs Editor  backs] Jasop Murray and Jamie Spencer  The two teams played the game of field  defense kept us in tho game," Denson  
go out and compete every week and  position for the rest of the quarter, as  said. "They played great and made some  
TEMPE, Ariz  hopefully make each other better. I was  neither offense could sustain a drive. The  plays and we just came out in the second  
Arizona State marched into an electric  fortunate enough to be out there."  Devils appeared to be winning that battle  half and took advantage of some oppor­ 
Sun Devil Stadium atmosphere,with  The Irish got over 140 yards from the  and had a golden opportunity with the  tunities."  
faithful fans donnnd in gold shirts as  fullback position as the Devils were more  Irish backed up at their own goal line.  A bizarre play set up ASU's best ofl'en­ 
bright as t.lw rh~sert sun.  concerned with  containing Jarious  With his heels at the back of his own  sive opportunity of the first half as  
By half-timn the Plnetridty was drained  Jackson and Autry Denson.  endzone, Hunter Smith boomed a  79­ Harper kicked the ball after what he  
from  thn stadium, and it wasn't just  "We know that that's going to be a big  yarcl punt into the high desert sky that  thought was an  incomplete pass. The  
hncausP of a failed transformer.  play for us." Goodspeed  got the Irish out of trou­ result was a 15-yarcl personal foul penal­ 
A bruising Notrn Damn running attack  said of the fullback trap  ble  and  pushed  the  ty that gave the Devils a first down dnr~p  
and an opportww dnf"nnse msponsible for tlm~n inUm:eptions took tlw fire and elee­ that burned the Devils on numerous occasions.  'WE KNOW THAT [THE  Devils inside their own 20.  in Irish territory. "I thought the play was over," llarper  
tridty out of most of the soli-out crowd.  "They have to respect  FlJLLBACK TRAP) IS  "Not to boast, but that  said. "I thought it was  an  incomplete  
lly tlw PrHI of tlw 2X-1J drubbing of the llf'vils. tlw only dwer !wing !ward was  Autry and Jarious." After the two teams  GOING TO BE A BIG PLAY  was the pivotal play of the game," Smith said. "I  pass. I was heading baek to tho sideli1w. I told [eoach Davin! 'look nw in tlw nyns, I  
"Wo are N-Il," as tlw Irish fans chnnrnd  traded punts to start the  FOR US. THEY HAVE TO  was excited, not neees­ did not kiek tlw ball intnntionally."' ·  
tlwir tnarn whiln tho players proudly dis­ game.  the  Devils  RESPECT AUTRY AND  sarily to redeem myself  On the next play Kealy hit Lnnzin  
played tlwir lwlnwts in tlw air.  mardwd into Irish terri­ ]after the Stanford game]  .Jackson inside the Irish fivn. Tlw lkvils  
"I  am  really proud  or l.his football  tory behind the super- JARIOUS.'  but just to get back to  were  turrwd away by tlw Irish dnff'Itsn  
!Pam." Iwad roach Bob Davin said. "Tho  brunning  of  J.H.  where I need to be. If I  that refusnd to give in. Kealy, who strug­ 
assistant coaclws and dPSPrVe all tlH' credit."  tlw  playors  !~edmond, who totaled 87 yards in the first  JOEY GooDSPEHIJ  had gotten the roll. it might have gone evon  glml all day until he was pullnd in the second half'. missed Jackson on third and  
llaviP has his !.Pam complntoly turnnd  half. But Brock Williams  NOTRE DAME FULL/JACK  further."  goal. The Dnvils had to settle f(Jr  a  liPid  
around from  his l!Pbut season, as  its  endod the threat when  Three plays later the  goal.  
n~conl stands at 4-1  as opposnd to tho 1­ he picked o!T Hyan Kealy's pass at the 13  Irish seeondary came up with another  llarpnr's error proved to lw t.lw only  
4 start last snason. Tlw Sun Devils foil to  yard line.  momentum  changing  play.  A'Jani  rnal big mistake made by tlw  Irish  
2-4.  Tlw Irish then gave the Devil dofonse a  Sanders took  a  tipped Kealy pass and  dnfnnse all clay. The front snvnn managed  
.)()(~y  (;oodspnnd lnd tiH' assault even  steady dose of Jamie Sponeer's strength,  scampered 25 yards untouched to give  to contain Hndmond  as  he could only  
though lw only tourlwd the ball four  a hint of Autry Denson's elusiveness and  Notre Dame a 14-0 lead.  manage seven yards in sncond half.  
Iirw•s. Tho junior fullback rackml up I()<J  a touch of .Jarious Jackson's passing to  "Our secondary just made plays,"  Tho only thing that could knnp the Irish  
yards including a (>0-yard rurnbln that snt  gnt on tho scoreboard first. Jackson hit  Deveron Harper said. "We made plays on  ofT the scornhoard in the snr.ond half was  
up NotrP Damn's final  touchdown and  Malcolm Johnson from  soven yards out,  their running game, loo. We just stick  
sPalf'd tlw Sun Devils' fate. "TitP oiT1•nsivo lirw did  a  gn~at job."  capping an 11-play. 87-yard drive that quickly quieted tlw Sun Devil stadium  together and play hard." "In the first half lthc offense! didn't  sec GAME/ page 3  

PLAYER OF THE GAME  QlJOTE OF THE GAME  STAT OF THE GAME  
Tlw Irish secondary intercepted three Hyan Kealy passes, sPtting up one touch­down and scoring otw of their own.  "Not to boast, but tha~ was the pivotal play of game. Hunter Smith  Notre Dam<~ fullback Joey Goodspnnd rackod up I09 yards on just four carries. Jlis 60-yard dash ranked as his career best.  
about his 79-yard punt  

page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October, 12, 1998 
Secondary proves second to none 
By ALLISON KRILLA Associate SportS Editor 
TEMPE,Ariz 

Cornerback Deveron Harper, echoing the words of former Irish head coach Dan Devine, summed up the team's 28-9 victory only minutes after time expired. 
"The team that won't be beat, can't be beat," Harper said as blood seeped through the ban­dage taped across his nose. 
It was that scene that epito­mized the gutsy defensive per­formance it took to beat the emotionally drained Sun Devils on their home field. 
"I think on defense we played well," said Davie. "We had some guys make some plays [on Saturday]." 
Some of the biggest plays were made by the often-criti­cized secondary. 
Brock Williams, A'Jani Sanders and Deke Cooper each intercepted errant passes from Arizona State quarterback Ryan Kealy, who gave way to redshirt freshman Chad Elliott in the fourth quarter. The three Irish picks were the most since Nov. 15, 1997, when Notre Dame beat LSU 24-6 at Tiger Stadium. 
"It started with the defensive line, ended up with the line­backers and then fell back to the secondary," said Cooper. "Everybody was getting a rush on the quarterback and that helped the secondary a lot." 
What ended in jubilation could have begun in tragedy for the Irish. however. On the game's first play, Kealy barely underthrew receiver Lenzie Jackson, who had beaten Williams' coverage and could have easily scampered 76 yards for the score. But 30 seconds into the second instead. Williams tipped the quarter. Hunter Smith booted a ball away, changing the entire monstrous 79-yard punt, giving course of events. the Sun Devils poor field posi­
Three minutes later, Williams tion at their own 18 yard line. got both hands on the ball, Kealy dropped back on first recording his first career inter­down and let one fly -into the ception at the Notre Dame 10 waiting arms of Sanders. The yard line. The pick set up an senior safety sprinted 25 yards 87-yard scoring drive, giving for the touchdown, and the first the Irish a lead they would points by this year's defensive never relinquish. unit. 
"Obviously Brock Williams' "I was a little bit surprised," interception at the beginning of said Sanders. "But you hope for the game was big," said Davie. plays like that, and when they 
Big only begins to describe come you just try to take Sanders' play two minutes and advantage of them." 

Cooper's first interception of the season came in the third quarter, and served as the final nail in Kealy's coffin. 
"I think it was cover two, and Harper tipped it up," said Cooper of his pick off. "It was just about to go out of bounds, ancl I scooped it up before it went out of there." 
Against Arizona State, every­thing the Irish secondary has spent the season preparing for materialized. 
"In practice we were working on deep balls, planting and dri­ving on the out, everything that we did today," said Cooper. 
After four weeks of opposing teams using strong aerial attacks aimed directly at exploiting the Notre Dame sec­ondary, Saturday's game proved the group means busi­ness. Kealy and Elliott com­bined for less than 200 passing yards, with a measly 24-yarder as the day's longest completion. 
"It was a great confidence builder [for the secondary]," Sanders explained. "We were a little bit shaky, but you have to be confident going into every game." 

v 
s 
GRADING 
THE 
IRISH 
Quarterbacks: B+ 
Jackson didn't have to do much, but what he did he did well. His confidence continues to grow as he engineered three scoring drives of more than 80 yards. Even when the play clock went out with the power he didn't miss a beat. 
Running backs: A 
The Irish backfield flashed another weapon in Joey Goodspeed's outstand­ing performance. Denson was Denson and Spencer against showed his muscle. The trio could give defen­sive coordinators headaches. 
Receivers: B 
Nothing outstanding, but solid play from Johnson and Co. They got open when they had to and are becom­ing consistent targets for Jackson. 
OITensive Line: A+ 
The boys in the trenches opened up holes you could drive a truck through, mak­ing things easy for whoever was the ball carrier. 
Defensive Line: B 
No one dominated but the group was steady and did contain J.R. Redmond in the second half. Keeping the other team out of the end zone until the fourth quar­ter has a lot to do with this group.. 
Linebackers: B+ 
The Irish were more active and hitting harder. The defense swarmed to Devil ball carriers and receivers not giving up any big plays. The only reason Redmond got 94 yards was because he is so damn good. 
Secondary: A+ 
Williams, Sanders, and Cooper came up with the big plays needed to win this type of game. The defensive backfield also held a speedy and talented receiving corps in check. 
Special teams: A 
Smith's 79 yard bomb is enough to earn an A, but he averaged 52 yards on four kicks. The kickoff cov­
, erage was much improved as well and Sanson was solid which is all we ask for. 
Coaching: B+ 
Jim Colletto had to hustle up 14 flights of stairs after half-time and it didn't affect his play calling. The Irish did need to make an effort to establish other threats aside from Jackson and Denson and they sure did that. Greg Mattison's defense continues to improve. The only concern was the silly and numerous penalties. 
Overall: 3.54 
Hey, a good old fashioned whooping behind the shed deserves Dean's list honors. Standing at 4-1 with an off week and Army, Baylor. and Navy next on the slate the team is poised to make a climb in the rankings. 

Monday, October 12. 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER page 3 
--------------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------------------------­
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Nothing can rattle Notre Da01e's renewed confidence 
.... 

Stranger things have happened. 
No one is quite sure where or when. but many who turned out for the game know that the amount of mistakes and quirky mishaps will not be repeated anytime soon. 
Still, not even silly penalties N delay-of-game calls on the kickoff, offensive pass interference -or power outages could slow the Irish down. On a day of mishaps, the Irish stood strong. 
Initially, Notre Dame prepared solely for the heat, but quickly found themselves in the middle of a bigger mess. 
"Everything was going wrong," A'Jani Sanders said. "They tried everything possible to get them back into the gamo." 
Notre Dame fans and players should have taken the first few sec­onds of the game as an omen. Hunter Smith got a delay of game call on the opening kickoff-but weirder things were yet to come. 
Devcron Harper appeared to kick the football in frustration at a Hyan Kealy incomplete pass. What he didn't know was the ball was still live, having been ruled a fumble after the quarterback sack. 
"I thought it was an incomplete pass," Harper said. "I was going baek to the huddle and it hit my foot. I didn't fwen sec the ball hit my foot." 
But the most bizarre and arguably most unexpected event happoned in the middle of the halftime show: With a few minutes remaining, Sun Devil Stadium lost almost all of its power. 
Only the bare essentials were allowed to run off the emergency gener-ators. Translation: no score­board, no replay, no play dock. 
ABC could transmit only the remaining minute of the third quar­ter for its nationwide viewing audi-


sight , waving good-bye to the Devil fans. 
The scene could be likened to the scene at the end of last year's Louisiana State game when the Irish thumped the favored Tigers and the only fans left wore the Blue and Gold. 
"It was old fashioned Notre Dame foot­ball," Goodspeed said. "This is what we're used to playing and we like it feels good to just go out and dominate a team like that." 
Game 
continued from page 1 
Sun Devil Stadium's loss of power during half-time. For most of the third quarter only tlw 71,50 I fans in the stadium saw tlw game as thero was no telovision cov­Prago. For the ontirn socond half there was no public address systom, no score­hoard. and very little fight from the Devils. 
O!Tensiv1~ coordinator Jim Colletto probably got the lwst workout of the day as lw had to climb 14 flights of stairs to rdurn to his coaching booth when the f•lnvators wnm out of ordnr. 
Aft.-r Colletto 's half-limo aerobic work­out lw watchml his offense go to work on wearing down tlw Devil defense. Notre l>anw n~ceivml the kickoff to start the socond half and torn apart ASU's defense going SO yards in 12 plays oxtending the lead to 21-:~. 
Tlw Arizona Stall~ fans did get an opportunity to mak1~ some noise on the Irish drive as tlw Devils intercepted a .Jackson pass at the goal line _;111d rdurrwd it tlw distance. But the play was ofl'sidos and two plays later Autry Denson leaped into the endzone for the lirst of his two touchdowns on· tlw day. Denson also ruslwd for S4 yards on 18 carries putting him within 450 yards of Allm1 l'inkitt's earner Irish rneord of 4.131. 
"Tlw key play in that game is third down," Davie said. "When they intercept the ball and they're ofl'sides. We throw a shovnl pass and then score on the next play. That was the momentum play in that game." 
Tho Irish defnnse kept tho Dovils out of the endzorw until a Hedmond run made the seon~ 21-9 with just over 10 minutes left in the game giving the Dovils a glim­mer of hopo. 
That hope quickly turned to despair as the Irish put the game out of reach four plays Ialor. Denson's one yard run fin­ished what Goodspeed's eamer best 60­yard run setup to push the score to 28-9. 
"At one point in time I forgot what the score was," Jackson said about playing with no scoreboard. "I just knew we had to score. Point blank we got to score. That's the mentality we took at it." 
Denson's second touchdown finished the Devils as the once raucous fans with their bright gold shirts began head for the exits like Mark McGwire had just bat­tnd for the last time in a game. 
Freshman Jordan Black enjoyed the 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ ence; even when it <:arne hack on the Sports Editor air, commentators wem at a loss 
occasionally without their favorite fallback -the instant replay machine. 
The on-field air conditioning-in the form of giant box-fans-went ofT with the stadium's power, so Notre Dame usod more than 1,000 pounds of' iee to keep the sidelines enol. 
The coaches found tlwmsdves challenged by the 15 flights of stairs to their box atop the stadium. At the conclusion of the game, Notre Dame's players found their locker rooms without lights. 
But the chaos never rattled Notre Dame. While Arizona State fans pan­icked and began a mass exodus at the onset of the fourth quarter, the Irish maintained their composure. 
And as such, Notre Dame emerged victorious. The Irish showed the nation that the focus which was not present a month ago has been regained. Not even a day of mishaps broke the team"s concentration on getting the win, and getting it con­vincingly. 
Now, with a week ofT, Notrn Darill~ must show that it can maintain its composure, a key element in proving tho team can compete against the nation's b1~st. 
And so a new outlook, a nnw motto, emerged from this win. With a little help from former Irish head coach Dan Devine, Bob Davie took that attitude into Sun Devil Staduim and walked away the wimwr. 
"I got a note from Coach Devine after we beat Purdue," Davie said. "It said, 'An old philosopher oncn said that a team that won't be beat, can't be beat.'" 
The Irish looked stronger than ever, dominating the Sun Dnvils, 2S­
9. . Both Davie and his playors took that motto to heart, proving that not 
even a loss of power can keep the Irish ofT the scoreboard. 
• GAME NOTES AND QuoTES 
Fullback Joey Goodspeed, on his 60-yard run in the fourth quarter that left him five yards shy of the goal line: 
"I'm not as fast as I thought I was." 
Cornerback Deveron Harper, fol­lowing his illegal kick of a live ball that led to ASU's only points of the first half: 
"I said, 'Coach. look into my eyes. I did not kick the ball intentionally.' I thought it was an incomplet<~ pass." 
Punter Hunter Smith. about his 79-yard punt. the longest in 63 years and third-longest in Notre Dame his­tory: 
"If I had gotten the roll, it might haVt} gontl even further." 
Bob Davie: 
"I thought there were several calls that were questionable in that foot­ball game, particularly in the third quarter. I thought our football team survived a lot of things out there." 
A power outage in Sun Devil Stadium that began during halftime resulted in a second half without use of the seoreboard or public address system, and no ABC television cover­age for nearly the entire third quar­ter. 
Notre Dame gained 263 rushing yards, highlighted by Goodspeed's 109·yard effort, against a Sun Devil defense that had allowed only 32 yards on the ground in its previous two games combined. 
For.mer Irish head coach Dan Devine spoke to the team at its hotel on Friday, and joined Frank Kush at midfield for the opening coin toss. Devine won the toss for Notre Dame. 

---~-~-------, 
Monday, October 12, 1998 
.. 
I "'-· I 
28 
ARIZONA STATE 
9 
SUN DEVIL STADIUM OCTOBER 10. 1998 



s€~ne 
O THE
Monday, October 12, 1998-----------------BSERVER ---------------------page9 
• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK 

"The Silence of the Lambs" 
Director: Jonathan Demme 
Starring: Jodie Foster, Anthony H~pkins, Lawrence Bonney and Kosi Lemmons 

By CASEY McCLUSKEY Scene Movir Critic 
With tlw much talked-about movie version of Toni Morrison's novel "Beloved" opening this Friday, this week's movie pick is another Jonathan Demrne film, "The Silence of the Lambs." This 1991 psychological thriller is one of the few lilms of the decade to be both intelligent and frightening effective. 
The film begins with the FBI at a standstill in their search of the serial killer "Bufl'allo Bill." Special Agent Clari(:e Starling (.Jodie Foster) is sent to interview the brilliant psychiatrist and serial killer, Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lnctor, (Anthony Hopkins) with hopes that he will be abln to reveal something about the mind of a murderer. 
With knowlndge that anollwr vie­lim is in tlw hands oJ' tlw serial kiiJPr, Agent Starling realiws that Linw is crucial and she devotes most of it to working with Ledor in order to save tlw kid ­napped victim. It is lwr goal to enter Lector's mind so that slw may know exactly what "Bul'l'allo Bill" is thinking. 
engage in their intellectual sparring match, the viewer cannot help but be pulled into the ring. 
One is captivated by the case that needs to be solved, the emotional obstaeles that Lector draws out of Agent Sterling and the rapport that develops between the madman and the FBI agent. The lesson of this rela­tionship is that in order to solve the problems of others, one must examine his or her own demons. 
Hannibal Lector is the quintessential madman. The viewer may expect Lnctor to be an out-of-control lunatic when one hears the hormrs of which he is capable. Lector's danger, though, comes from his calm demeanor and his brilliant mind. 
Everyone around him is vulnorable to his penetrating gaze. lie victimizes peo­ple by getting into their heads and· controlling them from tho inside ­then he cats them. 
Hopkins docs a masterful job of portraying this serial killer. His intensn stare, his soothing voiee and his deliberate movements make the film more frightening than any slasher movie in Hollywood's


Starling must Anthony Hopkins sinks his teeth into the large reel of hor­play Lnctor's role of Hannibal Lector, brilliant psy­ror flicks. games without chopath, in "The Silence of the Lambs." Hopkins is only in 
w;tling lost inside his lwad. And, she must not allow Lector to lind his way too deeply into· her own lwad, forcing hnr to lose her focus. 
Tlw most fascinating aspect of this moviP is the interaction between Agent Starling and Dr. Leetor. The on­S(Tnen clwmistry between Foster and Hopkins is frighteningly elnetric and it gives tlw entire film an eerie (~nergy that !'aptun•s tlw audience from start to linish. As these two brilliant minds 
the lilm for a total of 22 minutes, but his mind-boggling performance did earn him the 1991 Best Aetor Osrar. 
"The Silence of the Lambs" accom­plished what only one other movie ­"One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" ­has been able to do at the Academy Awards. It swept all of the major cate­gories including Best Direetor, Best Actress. Best Aetor and Best Pieture. A movie so honored and respeeted by llollywood should be on everyone's list 


At the theaters 
Beloved {Oct. 16) Practical Magic (Oct. 16) Bride of Chucky(Oct. 16) Apt Pupil {Oct. 16) 
At the video store 
The Odd Couple II {Oct. 13) The X-Files (Oct. 13) Hope Floats (Oct. 20) The Opposite of Sex 
(Oct. 20) 


• CHART~TOPPERS 
Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 

1. 
Antz ($15.4 million) 

2. 
Rush Hour ($11. 5 million) 

3. 
What Dreams May Come 


($11.0 million) 

4. 
A Night at the Roxbury ($6.2 million) 

5. 
Holy Man ($5.2 million) 

6. 
Ronin ($4.8 million) 



6. Urban Legend ($4.8 million) 

8. 
There's Something About Mary ($3.0 million) 

9. 
One True Thing ($2.0 million) 


10. 
Saving Private Ryan ($1.4 million) 


Source: AP Online 
Video Title 
1. 
City of Angels 

2. 
Wild Things 

3. 
Mercury Rising 

4. 
The Wedding Singer 

5. 
Jackie Brown 

6. 
Primary Colors 

7. 
The Big Lebowski 

8. 
Titanic 

9. 
Good Will Hunting 

10. 
Hush 



Source: Billboard Online 

Video Title 
1. 
Titanic 

2. 
Lady and the Tramp 3. 


New World 

4. 
The Evil Dead 

5. 
Austin Powers 


6. 
The Exorcist-25th Anniversery Special Edition 

7. 
Playboy's Freshman Class 

8. 
Spice World 

9. 
Merlin 


10. 
Barney's Great Adventure 


Source: Billboard Online 
Source: Hollywood.com 
page 10 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, October 12, 1998 
Chad Chipchase scored the caught napping three minutes The Irish asserted their second goal for the Irish on a in, when Jason Nightingale superior skill right from the
Hockey 

delayed penalty with aggres­converted a pass from behind outset, as freshman David sive forechecking. Chipchase the Irish net to cut the lead to Inman scored his first career
continued from page 16 

got control of the puck behind one. Urick scored his second goal, a barkhander that came the Notre Dame net just as his the Laker net, and after his goal to stretch the lead back after a quick steal at the team's two-man advantace first shot hit the near post, he to two, and in the last 15 min­Bronco blue line. expired. giving Lake Superior got to his own rebound and utes of the game, the Lakers Inman later notched his sec­the early lead. put the pur,k up over Platt, never got a quality scoring ond goal of the night, convert­
But from that point on. the who still recovering from the chance, even though they out­ing a pass from Benoit Irish played a solid, disci­first shot. shot the Irish 9-6. Cotnoir for a power play goal plined game. They managed Three minutes later, on a The star of the period for in the second period. to tie the sr,ore by the end of Notre Dame power play, the Irish was Ben Simon, who "David Inman is a sc:oring the first period when Aniket David Inman set up for a shot seemed to be on the ice for threat every time he's on the Dhadphale slid a short pass to in the circle, but it was every key [defensive zone] ice," said Poulin. a cutting Brian Urick just blocked by the Laker defense. faceoff, winning most of The first eight goals Notre inside the blue line, which Sophomore Matt Van Arkel them. The Notre Dame Dame goals of the season resulted in a short break­got to the loose puck in the defensemen also shone NSam were scored by six different awav. low slot and jammed the puck Cornelius registered his first players -Urir,k and Inman 
Ur.ick finished it off with a into the corner of the net, just college point with an assist on both had two. backhander high to Jayme as he was being checked to Urick's first period goal, and After the first period, the Platt's glove side. the ice by an opposing on numerous occasions Andy Irish continued attacking the 
"I think I caught him off his defenseman. Jurkowski was found joining huge but slow Bronr,o defense guard by going to the back­"Matt sr,ored a big goal, and the rush and forcing the r,orps. Five of the Bronc:os' six hand." Urick said. "He that's great for his confidence offensive play. starting defensemen were seemed to get a piece of it, early in the season," said listed at 6-foot-2, 205 lbs., or but it trickled in the net." Coach Poulin of his tough for­NOTRE DAME 7 more. Their weakness as a 
The ser,ond period saw the ward. "It wasn't pretty, put it WESTERN MICHIGAN 1 unit showed in the first Irish dominate the Lakers in came at a key time of the minute of the third period, every phase of the game. The game for us Jon the power The new-look Western which saw the two teams intensity and the physical play f." Michigan Broncos, rid of their skating four on four. play seemed to be raised a The Irish had a two-goal brown and gold uniforms, Obviously, with only eight notch by both teams in that lead entering the third peri­came in with great size. but men on the ice, space starts period. and the Irish con­od, and let the Lakers control lacking in speed and scoring to open up for the faster play­trolled the pace of the game. the tempo. Notre Dame got ability. ers to create offensive 
• SAINT MARY'S VOLLEYBAll 

Belles capture Saint Mary's Spectacular 
By RACHEL DEER good team and can beat very to keep the play alive. with 4 service aces, and 
Sports Writer good teams." Although the Belles were Megan Jardina was right -On Friday, the Belles took excited to put two more wins behind with 3. 
The Belles volleyed their on Defiance College. They eas­under their belts. they had to "Our teamwork, aggressive­way to victory this past week­ily dropped them in three: 15-be ready to face their toughest ness, and intensity were what end. raising their hopes for 4. 15-7, 15-10. r,ompetition of the weekend, let us win our matr,hes." said the remainder of the season. Suzanne Martin walked Alma College. This game was coach Jennie Joyce. 
Saint Mary's took home all away with 38 assists and 4 to decide the rankings in the But the Belles cannot get 
three matches in the Saint service aces, while Rodivich NIAA division. caught up in the post-game 
Mary's College Spectacular, put away 10 kills and 2 solo Saint Mary's played tough euphoria -their four matr,h­
beating Defiance in three, blocks. Angie Meyers helped and defeated Alma 15-11, 15-es next week are against some 
Adrian in four and Alma in out defensively, picking up 15 9,13-15. and 19-17. top-notch teams. 
four. digs. Agnes Bill hammered 20 "This is the make it or break 
The Belles have won their They had to come out strong kills and picked up 20 digs. it week. We have to prepare 
last five matches. now placing on Saturday to defeat Adrian Angie Meyers also had a big for our upcoming matc:hes," 
them fourth overall in their College. and they did: 15-5, game putting down 14 kills Joyce said. 
division. 15-10,11-15,19-17. and grabbing 24 digs. The Belles moved to 10-11 
"This is definitely a big step Angie Meyers had 14 kills Serving has been an ongoing overall and 7-4 in their r,on­
for us," said junior Mary and 12 digs. Jayne Ozbolt fol­problem with the Belles, but ference. 
Rodovih. "We started slow, lowed right behind her with they came alive in this tourna­They are away facing Calvin 
but picked up our game. We 13 kills; Brianna Canter came ment with some strong statis­College on Wednesday and at 
finally proved we are a very on strong, pulling up 18 digs tics. Agnes Bill had a hot hand Alvet on Friday. 
chances. 
Ben Simon took r,enter stage in that first minute when he rocketed through the neutral zone and netted the puck past two defensemen just 16 ser,­onds into the third. Thirty­one seconds later. Simon fed Urir,k on the right wing with a smooth pass which Urick then r,onverted for his second goal of the night-his fourth on the season. 
The story of the game was the Irish power play, which converted on four of nine opportunities. The Irish con­tinually moved the puck back and forth from the point, down low, bar,k to the point, and finished off the plays by taking shots from good angles. 
"Sometimes this early in a season, your penalty-killing is ahead of your power play becausr, it's tough to simulate in prar,tiee," said assistant r,oar,h Andy Slaggert. "We're starting to get enough chanr,es now. After the first period, we took better shots whir,h weren't getting bloc:ked." 
See tomorrow's sports section for coverage of last weekend's cross country meet. 

The Observer accepts daSSJfoeds every bustness day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre-Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassifoeds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all dassifoeds for content without issuing refunds. 
Looking for women w/ good promo-FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! tional skills to promote Bed box set. not available in Jagermeister.Must be 21 & have U.S. call pete at 251-0178. transportation. Caii1-800-TO­JAGER. 
TICKETS
I

FOR RENT 
I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 
I 

GAMES.272-6306 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW TICKETMART Inc GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 BUY-SELL-TRADE 
FOR SALE:4 ARMY TIX-CALL  
(((((((((  sports must start  
(516)269-3426 ASAP-BEST  fori must go  
OFFER  

Notre Dame Football Tickets  
That Pretty Place, Bed and  258-1111  
Breakfast Inn has space available  No student tickets please  
for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  
with private baths,$80­ 
$115,Middlebury,30 miles from  FOR SALE  
campus.Toil Road,Exit #107,1-800­ FOOTBALL TICKETS  
418-9487.  271-9412  

ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  WANTED  
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS  
TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  271-1526  

NOTICES WANTED
II 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am -7:00pm Sat: Noon -6:00pm Sun: Noon · Midnight 
When you need copies. we're open! 
Ea~y Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome beaches, Nightlife! Departs From Florida! Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339! Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties $129! Daytona Room With Kitchen $149! springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386

_, 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni cou­ple,with adopted 3 year old daugh­ter, wants to shower a new baby with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath­letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with.Friends on the swingset,trips to the zoo,grandma, play groups,lulla-bies,too.This is a home where wish­es come true .We'd like to call to get to know you.Call Shawn & Meg 800-767­4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp. paid. 
know.) 

2 Baylor GA's for sale.  Guilty conscience, anybody?  
call Henry at 634-3520.  
Please leave message.  
Dee-op shoo-bop, dee-op shoo-bop  
PERSONAL  
i'm sure you'd drive women crazy  
Going to Chile next semester!  -if you could drive.  
Take advantage of the only Notre  
Dame-sponsored study abroad  
seminars on social justice,  how revolting!  
Maryknoll and I LADES!  
Applications (due Oct. 14} available  
inCSC.  Doug-thank you for sharing ice  
cream with me. You are nice. And  
ODYSSEY OF THE MIND  my roommate thinks you're cute.  
Interested? Call Aubree  
@ 4-3873 before fall break  
Jennifer Nash ­I hope you had a  
TURNER'S HOLIDAY BAZAAR  good weekend and please don't  
work too hard. Shan and I worry  
SATURDAY,OCTOBER24  about you! Love, me.  

8:30-2:30 
Welcome Freshman Michael Edwards! 
$6.00 Haircuts Vito's Barbershop 1523 Lincolnway West Closed Wed. & Sun. 233·4767 SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun•Nassau• Jamaica•Mazatlan 
•Acapulco•Bahamas Cruise•Fiorida•south Padre Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs. Lowest price Guaranteed.Call now for details! www.classtravel.com 800/838-6411 
SPRING BREAK '99 Sign up early and get the following FREE:$30.00 off package, 14 FREE Meals, and 20 Hours of AII-U-Can Drink FREE Parties. Call College Tours FREE at (800)395-4896 or surf the web:www.collegetours.com 

·I LOST &'FOUND I 
Looking for a teaching job over­seas? Monthly Bulletin of teaching Lost last Spring: jobs outside the U.S. 
English-speaking schools. $38-12 Pentex Super Program 35mm issues, $22-6 issues Camera w/ Viva tar flash, gray case. 
Write: Overseas Academic Call Susan 255·2369 Opportunities,72 Franklin Avenue, Ocean Grove, NJ 07756 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg 219-291-7153. 
Large, 4bdrm house in Roseland. Big yard,garage. Walk to ND/SMC. Faculty, staff, grad. Avail. now. 
287-9342. 

BED & BREAKFAST: Home away from home! 2 miles from campus. Queen beds, 1 room w/ twins. Private baths. 272-9471. 
ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 
ND Football-Buy-Sell. Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE AM 232-2378 

FOR SALE 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 
88 ESCORT, LOW MILEAGE Good Condition, $1200 233-7297 After 6PM PM 288-2726 
Always buying and selling N D foot­ball tickets. 289-8048 
Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU tickets. Please call 908-722-7901. 
ND MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S­PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568 x2242 

Need 2 Baylor GAs. hi shannon henshaw. hope you are Please call212-63&-7472. doing better. we love you. in a pia-
THE OBSERVER will not be published during fall break so if you have Army tix to sell, put your classified ad in before Friday, Oct. 16. 
Need 2 Baylor GAs ASAP Top Dollar 631-6750 
tonic way. we feel great affection for you as friends. you must come eat unto our table on thursday, for we shalt be watching must-see tv and you shalt join us. are you embarrassed yet? love, us 
hey you big lump. get off the couch and drive somewh ... oops. never-mind. 
I bel those freshmen can drive all the way to CJ's. (unless they're high-school freshmen. you never 

Monday, October 12, 199R The Observer • SPORTS page II 
• AMERICAN lEAGUE CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES 
Wells' victory puts Cleveland on verge of eliiDination 

Associatod Press  distracted, in disarray and  ultimate goal  - a  trip to the  
llf~ar disastAr.  World Series.  
CLEVElAND  They're hr,ading home in  David Wells pitched well  
Tlw Yankn11s  eamn  to  town  control and in reach of their  Anough  to  win. Chili Davis  

As a graduating senior, you are preparing for your future. At Peterson Worldwide LLC, 
To day's 
we too are preparing for your future ... your future as a management consultant! 
preparation 
We seek future graduates to join Peterson Worldwide LLC. You must be working to­wards an accounting, business, economics, finance, engineering, or systems degree, 
determines 
tomorrow's 
and have excellent communications skills, computer proficiency, and flexibility regard­
achievement ing overtime and travel. 
Choose Peterson Worldwide LLC ... with us behind you, a great future lies ahead, a future filled with achievement. 
To learn more about us, visit our website, www.pcit.com. Please join us for an infor­mational presentation: 
Monday, October 12 
6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. University of Notre Dame Alumni Room, Morris Inn 

Interviews: Friday, November 13 
~ 
~~~~:~e~ 

An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer 

Saint ~ary's College Notre Darn._e 
26TH ANNUAL 

LONDON SUMMER PROGRAM 
MAY 19TH -JUNE 18TH, 1999 


Courses offered in History, Education, Biology, Philosophy and International Business. 
For further information contact: l'rofessor David Stefancic 
Professor Tom Parisi 54 Madeleva Uall, Room 347 
37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152 Saint Mary's College 
Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Notre Uame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 
(219) 284-4529 e-mail: dstcfancltilsaintmarys.edu 
e-mail: tparisi@saintmarys.edu l'ax: London Summer Program (21'1) 284-4716 
drove in three runs and Mariano Hivera got out of a hairy eighth inning Sunday as the Yankees defeated thr, Cleveland Indians 5-3 to take a 3-2 lead in the AL champi­onship series. 
New York saved its record­setting season with two wins this weekend at Jacobs Field. where its season ended last year. Now, the Yankees are one victory away from thA sAa­son's final destination and the only place thAir fans will allow their magical yAar to finish. 
And for all his griping about the urgency to flee the Bronx and build a new ballpark. even New York owner George Steinbrenner will be happy to see the old neighborhood again. 
Hivera. who gave up thr, eighth-inning homer to Sandy Alomar hAre last year in Game 4 that swung the series to Cleveland, this timA got his team to the ninth. 
After Wells was pulled with onA out in the eighth and New York lAading 5-3, Jeff' Nelson came on and hit Travis Fryman. Manny Hamirez sin­gled and New York manager Joe Torre summoned for Hivera, who was also brought in with one out in the eighth last year before yielding Alomar's homer. 
This time was difl'erAnt. though. Hivera got Mark Whiten to hit into an inning­ending double play that brought the Yankees charging out of the dugout. 
Now the Indians, whose line­up looked more like the Triple-A Buffalo Bisons than the defending AL champs on Sunday and who got an early bad-break bounce in Game 5, face the awesome task of try­ing to win twice in Yankee Stadium. 
The Yankees, who won 62 home games during the regu­
tar season, will start David Cone on TuAsday in Game 6 against Charlr,s Nagy. 
With the Yankees trailing in thr, series Saturday. Wells. who Aasily handled thr, Indians in Game l. asked New York managAr if he could pitch Game 4. An amused Torre said no, and Orlando "El Duque" IIArnandez took carA of the Indians Saturday. 
Wells. who Anterr,d the game 6-1 in the postseason in his career and 3-0 vs. Cleveland. figurAd to be a lot for the Indians to handle. And their task got touglwr when Alomar and David Justice wr,re scratchAd from the lineup because of inj uri r,s and Indians manager Mike Hargrove was forced start three rookies. 
Wr,lls struggled early. allow­ing two runs in the first but once the left-bander settled in. he gave up just Jim Thome's homAr in the sixth and l'in­ished with a personal postsea­son rAcord I I strikeouts. 
Hargrove r,IPcted to start Chad Ogea, who won two World SArir,s game tlw Indians last yAar. ovr,r Jaret Wright. Wright had been rocked by Boston in his first playoff start against Boston and again in Game 1 at New York. 
But Ogea didn't fare much bettr,r, failing to get out of the second inning after giving up four runs and four hits in I 1­3 innings with thr!~e walks and two hit batters. Wright came in and allow!~d one run and two hits in six innings but walked seven. 
TherA was a whole ballgame crammed into a 40-minute first inning. 
Tlw Yankees spent 22 min­utes scoring thren runs against Ogea on two hit bat­ters. two grounders off Cleveland infiAid!~r·s glovAs and an HBI groundout. 

J'ari5: 31, avenue Bosquet, 75343 Paris cedex 07, !'ranee • (33/1) 40.62.07.20 New York: 60 East 42nd Street, New York, NY 10017 • (212) 'IB:~-1414 www.aup.edu • admlsslons@aup.cdu • nyofflcf?@aup.rdu 
Inspired Minds Wanted. 
Where you work should be a place that inspires the mind. Imagine that. Visit www.EDS-Imagine-IT. com 
A more productive way of working 
EDS & the: EDS logo art· rtgistereU marks of Elc:rtronic Data Systt·m~ Corpnr.nion. EDS is an equal opportunitv t•mployer. m/U,·/u. <D 199H Ekctronic Data Systems Coq10rJtion. All righb re!'tt'rvn.l 
and ask yourself, 
n ~~~ ~u

Jnsp i reGj)s 
W®lliH 
II1 

·~ 
I 
I 
I 
_, 

r-----------------­
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, Ocrober 12, 1998 

• SAINT MARY's SWIMMING 

Belles happy with season start 
By KATIE FURMAN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary's dove into its new swimming season this weekend with a splash. 
In the Notre Dame Belays Friday night. the team finished fifth in six events. fourth in one event. and sixth in four events. 
But the fifth-place overall finish did not disappoint any­one -the Division III Belles went up against all Division I and Division II schools. 
For many, it was their first introduction to collegiate com­petition. 
"It is a fun meet to get accli­mated to competition in gener­al." said head coach Jini Cook. 
"Everybody did a really good job for only having three weeks of training," she added. "We had a really solid performance all around. We even had eight freshmen swim." 
The swim team tall against its competition. which was comprised of Notre Dame, Valapariso. Butler. University of Illinois-Chicago and Marquette. 
"I think we did well. but there is room for improve­ment." said freshman Alicia Lesneskie. "We need to work on being more comfortable with competition and get some new swimmers more comfort­able because they've never swam before." 
The freshmen indeed did 
make a contribution to the 
team's success as they finished 
fourth and had tremendous 
times in the 1000-yard 
freestyle. 
Other events included the 
400-breaststroke relay, swum 
by Ann Yanda, Wendy 
Newman. Janielle Miller and 
Michelle Samreta. The group 
finished fifth. but all had excel­
lent times. 
Official times have not yet 
been released. but according to 
Cook's estimations the meet 
was close to record-breaking. 
"'Michelle was only a second 
off the ,;,chool record," said 
Cook. 
Thinlrofus 
asyoursclioolbus. 
semester breaks or heading home lor your sister's wedding. if going home means catching a plane at Midway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For information and schedule consult your !ravel agent or call 
800-833-5555 
www.busvtlle.com 
II~ITI=n II~A(l
Vi ~i i i.U i.li i ivr 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, AllDay••• Every Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 

Leave Notre Dame Arrive Midway Arrive O'Hare Main Gate (via Tri State Coach-Terminals 1, 2, & 3 transfer in Portage) (International terminal 15 minutes later) ;-4:00a.m. 6:10a.m. 5:35a.m. 6:00 a.rn. 8:10a.m. 8:20a.m. 8:00a.m. 10:10 a.m. 9:55 a.rn. 9:00a.m. 11:10 a.m. 10:55 a.m. 
10:00 a.m. 12:10 p.m. 11:55 a.m. 12:00 p.rn. 2:10p.m. 1:55 p.m. 1:00 p.m. 3:10p.m. 2:55p.m. 2:00p.m. 4:10p.m. 3:55p.m. 4:00 p.rn. 6:10p.m. 5:55p.m. 
6:00p.m. 8:10p.m. 7:55p.m. 
The 400 backstroke relay team also had its share of decent times. and it also fin­ished fifth. These swimmers -Daniello Clayton. Janielle Miller. Tara Thomas and Noreen Gillespie -helped Saint Mary's outshine last vear's results. · While the team placed fifth last year at the relays. Cook sees imense improvement. and a bright future. 
"We're going to be strong in the backstroke events, sprints, in the im and breaststrokes. The only weak link is that we don't have a butterflier and I am working on recruiting one 
now," she said. 
Alicia Lesneskie. while only a freshman, agreed with Cook. "As a team we have more swimmers and depth. Depth is our strength." 
But a team will even question its strength going up against such stiff competition. 
"When we walked in it was really intimidat­ing," said Gillespie. ''I've swam for fourteen years. and it was intim­idating. After the first relay, it was a lot of fun. Once we saw how fun it was we got into it." 
Even a five-month' hiatus from swimming didn't slow Gillespie down as she finished one second off her per­sonal best. 
"I think coming out and competing against Division I teams was hard. Everyone was cheering though and there was a lot of team spirit," she said. 
Before the regular season begins, the team will head back to Saint Mary's pool and train there for one week. As the women return home for break, the swim­mers will train with their club or high 

(You 

school teams to stay in shape. 
They then will complete their pre-season run with another week of training before diving into the big pool. 
As the season progresses. the team also has an opportunity to travel to Florida to train over Christmas break. 
The trip, from Jan. 2-9, will include training twice a day. from four to six hours. as well as the possibility of competing. 
"I also am looking forward to seeing how we improve this year; watching my swimmers from last year mature in and out of the water. Getting better times, as well as more leader­ship," Cook said. 
The 
AX McNair Program Announces the 1998-99 
RECRUITMENT AND ORGANIZATIONAL MEETINGS WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
need attend only one of the meetings. We lzave scheduled two for your convenience. ) 
FOR STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES AND WHO ARE EITHER 
FmST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM LOW INCOME FAMILIES 
(ALL ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS) 
OR 

AFRICAN AMERICAN, HISPANIC NATIVE AMERICAN 
MONDAY, 10/12 AND TUESDAY, 10/13 
6:00 PM (TO 7:00 PM) ROOM 116 O'SHAUGHNESSY 
ALL ELIGIBLE STUDENTS ARE WELCOME Refreshments after each Me 

+ Work in an internship 
Study Public Affairs 
+Fulfill Fine Arts Requirement 
Come to the informational meeting Thesday, October 13th 7:00p.m. 115 O'Shaughnessy 
Prof. Peri Arnold, Director 346 O'Shaughnessy Peri.E.Arnold. 1 @nd.edu 
Irish 

continued from page 16 
McNew got the ball rolling just 5:08 into the game on a pass from junior Andrew 1\ris in the only first-half goal. 
Both teams shot seven times in the half. keeping it an even contest. The Gaels stepped up their play in the second, out­shooting the Irish 9-6. But the Irish fended off the St. Mary's blitz. as Velho picked up six of his seven saves in the second. 
Freshman Shane Walton scored his ninth goal in 12 
See tomorrow's Observer for interhall football coverage 
games this season 74:58 into tho second. Walton got tho ball from midfielder Heggie McKnight. putting Notre Dame ahead 2-0. The Gaels only goal came late in the contest, as Jon Gordon took a Natp, Kropp assist to thp, np,t with less than six minutes lr.ft to play. 
The Irish will now finish up thr. regular season with a rive-game stretch against Big East opponents that begins at home this Friday against Connecticut. Sevr.nth in thp, Big East with a 2-2-2 record. Notre Dame will try to upsr.t the first-place Huskies. 
-·------­

Monday, October 12, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
such an incredible accomplish­ball from 10 yards out. The ball BC's Meghan Moore made a Irish, all in the next four min­ment," said Gerardo. "To be skimmed off the left post into game of it at 85:29 when she utes. She added two assists on
W.Soccer 
able to sr.ore as many goals as the right corner of the net for a lofted a ball from the right end­Jenny Heft's and Kelly line and into the left corner of Lindsay's goals, as the Irish the net. took a 6-0 advantage at half­
Streiffer, however, put the time. game away when she answered lleft scored at 28:24 when 
1:02 later. Her shot deflected her shot found the lower left off a BC defender and into the corner of the net. At 30:46, right corner of the net to close Lindsay finished a give-and-go out the 3-1 win. from Gerardo to close out the 
The Irish outshot the Eagles first half scoring. 29-1, but BC was able to score Shannon Boxx and Heft each on its only shot. ending the added goals in the second half Irish's six game shutout streak. to seal the S-0 win. The Eagles were content on The Irish tallied 30 shots on playing just one forward on the the afternoon and Shayna Hoss narrow Natick High School made 13 saves for th1~ Friars. football field. LaKeyshia Beene and Elizabeth 
Providence didn't fare much Wagner combined for thn better against the Irish. Notre shutout. as both of them Dame went on a scoring spree. recorded a save. netting four goals in the first The Irish now have a week to six minutes of Sunday's contest. prepare for a showdown with 
At 2:04, Lindsay Jones fourth-ranked Connecticut. The crossed the ball to Streiffer Iluskies spoiled Notre Dame's who fired a shot into the left NCAA r.hampionship bid last corner of the net. Gerardo then year by beating the Irish in the scored the three goals for the semi-11nals. 
-~ 
a player of Cindy's caliber is 1-0 Irish lead. 

continued from page 16 
hard to believe." Gerardo struck again at did today." Gerardo scored the first two 65:53 when she unleashed a 
G11rardo now stands three goals of Friday's game to tie blast from 20 yards out into the ahead of Daws with 64 career Daws' record. upper left corner of the net to goals. At 53:44, Jenny Streiffer give Notre Dame a 2-0 advan­
"It is a great honor to matr.h found Gerardo, who headed the tage. 
Last Chance to Get 
Van Training 
Dates: 

Tuesday, 
Wednesday, 
October 13 
October 14 
6:00-B:OOpm 
4:00-6:00pm 
The October 15 6:00-B:OOpm session has been cancelled. 
Those who need the refresher test must take an Training before Fall Break in order to drive for th rest of the semester. 
Call Patty @ 1-5293 with any questions. 
INFORMATION MEETING Monday, Oct. 12 --7:00p.m. --Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's OR Wednesday, Oct. 14 --7:00p.m.--Hesburgh Auditorium, Notre Dame Saint Mary's SEMESTER AROUND THE WORLD PROGRAM 
·.. :_ ..::;n~-~-:i'>\(..;.:: .~~:.,.:.~r ..t~\-:.-:-:;:::~~ 
"~· '..;. -..\ ',\ ·1:}·!~ . ~ \ ·~"''· 
""-~ ...., '$.,• \ ·l • •!l •• ........:_ ·{'i!:~ r · • • ":\x'• '\
( ' ' ( ·~J· ",':'i''-.1_\", 1 • 1.~ ~~t~J \ ., 
• ••• ~-t·~,l; 
~l' -',.J' ...~~ ·~<e. ' / .....,,,' . 
. ,..) · .:u..~. : .. "\:·". "'\~ ...\ R-~ \ · 
..,...,.,. "• ' ,, ,. ., ~~ .-(11:,' 
. ..., ·, ., .-· . ~.(_, ;;'-'-:~', :, ' . 
Open to all ND/SMC students 
Challenging academic program at Sacred Heart College in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian World. 16 semester credits applicable towards core or nts. 

Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE SHORT VIDEO ON HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER UESTIONS 
Any questions, call Dr. C. Pullapilly 272-0889. 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 





--------------~----------------------------------~---~ 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, October 12, 1998 
• VOllEYBAll 
..... 
-
...­
• SAINT MARY's SoccER 
Comets top Belles, 5-l 
By MOLLY McVOY of3-1. Spons \Vrirer Whrn asked whv he thought the ·ball 
Drspitr a hard­staved mainlv at Saint fought game. the Mcirv's end. coach Briles soccer team Robert Sharp said it dropped its match 5-1 was the Belles' atti­against the Comets of tude toward Olivet. Olivet on Saturday. "In the first half. we 
The Saint Mary's went into defensive squad faced a tough mode. The were get­Olivet team that is the ting too many shots second-highest scor­off." said Sharp. 
ing team in the In the second half. league. Early in the the Belles appeared game, no team could tired. claim control of the The defense was 
game. tough. but they could 
Olivet passed well not seem to get the and kept the first half ball past mid-field to high paced. create offense. 
The ball was mainly Again, Wagner had at Saint Mary's end of some fantastic saves, the field and goalie, but Olivet scored on Joanne Wagner, had an indirect kick some impressive because of a Saint saves. Mary's penalty. 
Olivet's quickness "We played mostly kept both teams work­defense. The had a ing very hard through­strong midfield and out the entire first their 10-1 record half. shows it." said Barger. 
"They were physical. The Belles looked a The were definitely a bit sluggish in the sec­tough team." said for­ond half, and Olivet ward Katie Barger of took advantage. Olivet's abilities. Late in the game, "They weren't going they took a nice shot to give us anything for at Saint Mary's goal free." and the Belles acci­
Midway through the dentally knocked it in first half. Laura during an attempt to Fiorino scored for block it. Olivet. This made it 5-1 
At that time, the Olivet. The Belles Belles had no shots on played tough for the Olivet's goal. Shortly rest of the game, but after that. Olivet did not score again. scored again on a cor­"Overall, [Olivet] got ner kick. making it 2-the ball too often and 0 Olivet. it drove it through us 
Barger did not let too often," said Sharp. those points go unan­"We needed to create swered. some offense in the 
She took the ball all second half, and we the way down the field did. We just didn't and scored for Saint create enough." Mary's, making it 2-1 Saint Mary's plays at in favor of the Comets. Calvin College on 
Then. near half Tuesday, and at home time. Fiorino scored against Alma on again for Olivet and Saturday. the teams went to Their overall record . half-time with a score is now 3-7-2. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Challenge U Fitness ­Fitness classes are half price after breaK Stop by the RecSports ~~flee in tli~ RSRC to register. Look for the complete schedule on the RecSports web page. 
Yoga -A new yoga class will be held on Mondays, 10/26-12/7, from 7-8:15 
p.m. in the RSRC. Registration begins Wednesday at 7:4.5 a.m. at the RSRC. Spa.cei$ ~ilr:dted. 
Tai Chi -Reg'l$tJ::ation begins Wednesday~ October 14, at 7:45 a.nt.,.at the RSRC. Classes will take place on Wednesdays, 11/4­12/9, from 5:30-6:20 p.m. in the RSRC.Space is limited. 
Knockout Workout 



Rumor has it, Mona Lisa had pasta on her mind. Kind of like the authentic Italian pasta you'll find at Fazoli's. Fettuccine Alfredo, Spaghetti with 
rich Marinara sauce. And hearty Lasagna, just to name a few. Come by soon for a real work of art. You'll smile, too. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W. McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 
The Irish had four players who hit more than .400. Schiebout contin­ued her stellar weekend. leading the team with 17 kills. a .552 hitting percentage. and only one error. 
Sophomore setter Denise Boylan played a strong match, with nine kills and no errors. She also had 57 set assists and 14 digs. Treadwell, a captain. played a solid all-around match. 
Three of the games in the match were decided by two points. and the fact that Fairfield came out on top in two of those put them over the edge. 
The Irish regrouped from the two early weekend losses in time for a conference match Sunday against St. John's. Notre Dame defeated St. John's in three straight games, 15­12, 15-13, and 15-10. 
Treadwell. Malinda Goralski and Kristy Kreher played well for the Irish. Treadwell and Kreher each had 11 kills: Treadwell added eight blocks and Goralski seven. 
Notre Dame outblocked St. John's 20-5, as well as outhitting the Red Cloud. It was the third conference win for the Irish this season. 
Notre Dame will have a few days to recover from their four-match road trip before heading to North Carolina this weekend to take on Duke and North Carolina. 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Wrirer 

On Friday, the Notre Dame volley­ball team's 78-match win streak against conference opponents came to a crashing halt. 
The team could not come together to win the tight games this week­end, dropping close matches to Connecticut and to non-eonference opponent Fairfield. Both losses went to five games and were deter­mined by only two points. 
The team did rebound with a three-game win over Big East oppo­nent St. John's. With the weekend's matches, the Irish dropped to 6-8 overall and 2-2 in the Big East. 
After going ahead 2-1 in the match versus Connecticut {12-9, 3-0 Big East), the Irish dropped the last two games 12-15 and 14-16 to the underdog Huskies. 
Both teams had a high number of errors. Although the Irish actually had a better hitting percentage, more assists and more digs than the Huskies, Connecticut used its advantage on digs to beat Notre Dame. The key factor in the out­
come  of  the  match  was  
Connecticut's  ability  to  come  
through in the clutch.  

Senior outside hitter Annette Rynn led the Huskies with her 16th dou-
Art Appreciation: 


hie-double of the season, recording 15 kills and 13 digs. 
Topping the Irish stats were Emily Schiebout's 17 kills and Lindsay Treadwell's 14 digs. 
All three previous match-ups between Connecticut and the Irish took only three games, with Notre Dame the victor each time. Besides never having lost to a Big East opponent, the Irish had only been pushed to one five-game match since joining the conferenee, against Villanova in 1996. 
The Fairfield Stags won their lOth straight match to move to 18-1 on the season with a closely fought vic­tory over the Irish. 
Both teams hit well in the match, with Notre Dame actually outhitting Fairfield .415 to .319. 
The Irish also had a good night at the net, tallying 21 blocks to the Stags' 8. However, the Irish suc­cumbed to the 14 aces and superior digging of the Fairfield team. 
"We made some critical upper­class plays tonight," said Fairfield head coach Todd Kress. "Everyone stepped up at key points for us." 
Junior Liz Bower set the pace for the Stags. recording her second­straight triple-double: 59 assists. 10 kills and 19 digs. Freshman Joanne Saunders reeorded 17 kills in the match and hit .533. 
The Giaconda Smile 

Why lS Mona smiling? 
..... 
page 15 
The Observer • TODAY 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
H>XTROT 
6RRR. THIS PAPERBoY IS DRIVING ME NUTS.' 
I 
DILBERT 
DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 


SCOTT ADAMS 



ACROSS 33 Reindeer driver 59 Tulip's base 
34 Bounds 60 Jury burner 35Coach 61 Cartoonist Peter 
5 Post-larval Parseghian 62 Woeful cry 10 Bullfight cries 36 Partner of kisses 63 Impatient 14 Willa Cather's 37 Categorizes 64 Pooped 
"One of--" 
1 Put on the 
38 Fortitude 15 Wipeout 
39 Bed bound 
DOWN 

16 Org. with a 
40 Champagne 
1 Monopolizes mission buckets 2 Prefix with dollar 

11 Dr. Seuss's 
41 Diminishes or trashdiner order? 

42 Popular hors 
3 Father of20 Sktpper's plea 

d'oeuvres 
Deimosand21 "--a Grecian 

45 Play part Phobos

Urn" 46 Carrier letters 4 Mao ---tung
22 Like TV's "Tales From the Crypt" 47lsland off 5 Carolina river Venezuela
23 "Roses --red 6 Compulsion 50 Road hazard 
7 When repeated, 

24 Certain warning a Samoan port computer, 53 Moo goo gai a Professional informally pan pan grp 
25 "Here come de 56 1676 Virginia 9 Grazing area judge!" comic uprising 
10 Up next 11 "The Wizard of Oz" actor ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Actor Morales 
13 Unvarying 18 Bellini opera 19 Gets close 23 C. IA types 24 Hammond 
products 25 Pope of A.D. 757 26 Fireside 27 Fragrant East 
Indian wood 28---cotta 29 Taiwan-
controlled island 30 "The Outcasts of Poker Flat" writer 


48 Actor Julia 53 Fence material 49 Abdui-Jabbar's 
54 One of the alma mater 
O'Neills 50 Humorist 
55 Half hitch. e.g.
Lebowitz 51 Advanced 57 Health restorer 

52 Lincoln and sa Rat-racing room, Burrows for short 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665 
31 Strong and fierce-tempered one, supposedly 
32 Wrestling areas 33 Switchblade 37 "Away with you!" 
38 Pranks 
40 Early Peruvian 41 Swiss city 
43 Powerful persons 
44 "Of course!" 
47 Father, in the Bible 
Monday, October 12, 1998 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST r-MONDAY, OCTOB,::E;::R:-1::-::2:-,::-::199::-:-8----------------, 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Kirk Cameron, Luciano Pava­
rotti, Chris Wallace, Tony Kubek 
Happy Birthday: This will not be 
the year to let your emotions get the 
better of you. Try to keep your profes­
sional life and your personal life sepa­
rate from each other. You will find it 
difficult to make the financial gains 
that you desire if you dwell on emo­
tional matters that are out of your 
controL You can do well if you focus 
on your goals and the opportunities 
that are present. Your numbers: 6, 12, 
15, 33, 41. 42 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): 
Romantic involvement will develop if 
you take the time to nurture the rela­
tionship. Trips with your mate will 
give you the opportunity to get to 
know one another better. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You 
are extremely loyal and you need a 
companion that can offer you the 
same devotion. You have been feeling 
depressed. A loving pet may be just 
what you need to lift your spirits. 
0000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): You'll be raring to go. Take the initiative to make the arrange!I)ents for a fun­filled day with those whom you wish to pass the time with. You can attract admirers just by being your lively self. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You should plan to have a get-together at your place. Consider a paint party where you supply the materials and refreshments and your friends supply the labor. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You need to be around people. The information you gather will help you take a clear­er look at your own situation. You should be ready to open up to your 
partm•r. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 2l-Sept. 22): Love 
interests with colleagues or bosses are 
possible. Before getting involved be 
sure that you don't have ulterior 
motives. You don't need to get 
involved in order to get ahead. Take 
your time and weigh the conse­
quences carefully. 0000 
LIBRA (Sept 23-{)ct. 22): You will 
have a real need to get away. Your 
personal life has bcm tiring and you 
should be looking al changing your 
surroundmgs. Self-•wareness semi­
nars will help bring you confidence. 
00 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): 
Money-making ventures appear to be 
favorable at this time. Inflammations, 
infections or minor ;ailments will be 
persistent. Take care of such matters 
immediately. 00000 
SAGmARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You will be in the mood for love. 
Don't lead someone on if you really 
aren't sure how you {..,I about him or 
her. Honesty will keep you out of 
trouble. 000 
CAPRICORN line. 22-Jan. 19): 
Arguments with relatives will be 
aggravating. It is best not to push 
your beliefs on others. Problems 
while traveling can be expected. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 
..
Tenderness and affection will be on your mind. Get together wilh the one you love. Make plans that only involve the two of you. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-M.arch 20): Make love, not war. Potential violence may develop if you get into a heated argu­ment with someone you live with. Try to control the situation by refusing to get angry. 00000 

Birlhday Baby: You are a proud individual who can sometimes lose out because you just don't want to admit when you're wrong. Owrrome this char­acteristic early in liie and you will reap all the rewards you want. You are car­mg. generous and colorful and Will always attract a lot of attt•ntion throughout 
your life. 
• OF INTEREST 

Kellogg/Keough Institute Seminnr-Thn Kellogg Institute will have a seminar this weekend. cospon­sored with the Keough Institute of Irish Studies. Charles M. Clark. from the Department of' Economics at St. John's University, will speak on the topic of "How the Irish Might Save Civilization Again: The Proposal for a Basic Income Policy in Ireland." The event will bl~gin Tuesday. Or-tober 13 at J 2:30 p.m. in Room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
Candax McNair Recruitment Meeting -Tonight at 
6:00 pm in Hoom 116 O'Shag. All students who are Interested in Graduate School and either are from low­income families or minorities should attend. 
Observer Sports: The department 
with a Hart... 
-
literally. 
-

• Yankees take 3-2 

• Volleyball team sees 
edge in the ALCS 

78-game conference 
win streak come to an 
' 
behind strong pitching 
performance by Wells. 

end with loss to 
UConn.
PORTS 
p.ll 
p.J4 

page 16 OBSERVER Monday, October 12, 1998 


• HOCKEY 
leers re01ain unbeaten with wins over Lakers, Broncos 
By TED BASSANI Sports Writer 
For just the second time in 19 seasons of' conference play, Notre Dame's hockey team started its conference season with two consecutive wins. 
On Friday, the Irish skated past Lake Superior State with a 4-2 win, and on Saturday they thrashed Western Michigan. 7-1. 
Lake Superior State came into the Joyce Center Friday night with a 7-0-1 unbeaten streak against the Irish, with the last Notre Dame win coming in November 1995. 
The Lakers brought a young team, with 12 starters being either freshmen or sophomores. including their starting goaltender and the entire third and fourth lines. 
But the Irish looked sloppy early on, drawing four penalties in the first ten min­utes-two of which were for having too many men on the ice. Those errors put the Irish on the short end of a 5­on-3 power play. 
And the Lakers took full advantage. Jeff Cheeseman stuffed a rebounded shot into 
see HOCKEY I page 10 The second Irish goal of Friday night's game against the Lakers slips by the goalie while sophomore Dan Carlson looks on. 

• WoMEN's SoccER 
Gerardo leads Irish to victories 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sports Editor 
Senior forward Monica Gerardo scored five goals this weekend to lead the second­ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team to conference vic­tories over Boston College and Providence. 
-
On Friday, the Irish .defeated the Eagles 3-1 on a rainy Natick High School field and followed up that win with a 8-0 shellacking of the Friars on 
Sunday. 
Notre Dame improved to 12­1 on the season and 7-0 in the Big East, but the real story belonged to Gerardo, who sur­passed Cindy Daws to become the Irish's all-time leading goal scorer. 
Heading into the weekend, Gerardo stood just two back of 
-
Daws with 59 career goals. With her offensive explosion this weekend. Gerardo now stands alone in the Irish record books. 
"The record is something Monica really deserves," said Irish head coach Chris Petrucelli. "She has -been a player that scored goals for us as soon as she came to our campus four years ago. It is not that Monica just scores goals, she scores big goals} like she 
see W. SOCCER I page 13 


• MEN's SoccER 
Irish split on 
•

west coast trip 
Observer Staff Report 

The Irish ended their non­conference play for the sea­son this weekend by splitting a two-game stretch in California against Santa Clara and St. Mary's. 
Losing 3-1 on Friday to Santa Clara but rebounding yesterday with a win at St. Mary's, the men ended with a 4-1-1 non-conference record. 
No. 22 Notre Dame scored first Friday, something the Irish did once before in the previous seven games. Notre Dame's offense out-shot Santa Clara 10-7 in the first, but the No. 17 Broncos came out galloping in the second half and added three of its own. 
Junior forward Ryan Cox scored the lone Irish goal at 
39:31 of the opening period on a· penalty kick that goal­keeper David Alexander couldn't stop. The penalty came on Bronco defender KRith Burden's handball call in the penalty box. 
The second half was all Santa Clara. as on1~ of the 
top teams in the Western Coast Conference simply dominated the Irish. Its first goal came just 20 seconds into the hall'; the Broncos needed just six more min­utes before they took the lP-ad on a Michael Goehring goal on a pass from mid field­er Brett Davis. 
Davis cemented the lead at 
74:03 when he took a pass from Burden and buried it from 20 yards out into the lower-left corner of the goal. 
Irish goalie Greg Velho registered three saves in the game while allowing three to slip past him. Velho faced 15 Bronco shots while Alexander saw just 11. 
Revenge out west came yesterday as the Irish swung over to St. Mary's to com­plete the stretch in a win­ning style. Again. the Irish came out first. but this time were able to hold off a sec­ond-half surge to win their sixth of the season. 
·Junior Matt McNew and ShanP Walton werP thP lonn goalscorers for the Irish. 
see IRISH I page 12 

vs Army at Connecticut 
t1t~ October 24, 1:30 p.m. lj) Friday, 7:30p.m.
SPORTS 
Cross Country at Central Collegiates 
ATA 
Friday, 4: IS p.m. 

vs. Connecticut at Duke 
•

~~ Friday, 7 p.m. Saturday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 
• 



