
-----------------------------------~----~---------~-------------------------------------------­

Thursday, January 29, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 80 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVlNG NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• STUDENT SENATE 
Lingenfelser, SUB funds dominate discussion 
Re-allocation of student union financial resources debated amongst members 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor 
Last night. several members of Studcmt Union Hoard and the of'fico of the treasury crowded in with student sen­ate to debato the proposed budget reallocation of student union funds. 
Heallocation is usually an unquestioned action of the student body treasurer; the treasure reviews leftover funds at the end of tho somes­tor. interviews organizations, and then makes proposals as to how to better allocate the funds within theso separate areas. 
This year, however, the pro­posed $1300 cut of SUB funds prevented an unquestioned approval from the senate. 
"There was a lot of money taken out of special events and cultural arts in SUB," said Ryan Stecz, a represen­tative from SUB. "At the same time, this reallocation allows the diversity council to receive $1800. Why is the diversity council getting funds when thoy have no concrete 

Dean of engineering wins HuiDboldt award 
By PATRICK McGOVERN 
News Writer 
NotrP. Dame dean of engineer­ing Anthony Michel has received one of this year's llumboldt Prizes. Germany's highest research award for senior U.S. scientists and scholars in all dis­dplines. 
MichP.l is only one or 40 reeipi­onts this year. Tho Humboldt 
Prize gives him a year of research support at a n y German university or Max I' I a n c k Institute. 
M i c he I plans to eonduct his research at 
the Huhr Universitat in Bochum. lie will step down from his dnanship on .June 1 and likely will begin his research next fall. 
Miehel plans to divide his allotted timo into four three­month research periods. Michel will maintain his professorship at Notre Damn by taking a sab­batical. 
"I have been fortunate that the leadership at Notre Dame allows [you! to pursue your scholarship while administrat­ing." said Michel. 
While in Germany, Michel will ~onduct his research in the sta­bility theory of dynamieal sys­
'I 

HAVE BEEN FORTUNATE THAT 
THE LEADERSHIP AT NOTRE DAME ALLOWS [YOU] TO PURSUE YOUR SCHOLARSHIP WHILE ADMIN15­
TRATING.' 

ANTHONY MICHEL to Michel, DEAN OF ENGINEERING, IIIIMBOLDT PI/IZE WINNER the award 
terns with one of the worlds leading circuit theorists. He explained the theory by giving the example of the economy, saying that both are systems that goes through many changes and disturbances which can be studied and predicted. Michel, an electrical engineer, will study control systems in chemical and mechanical processes. 
In order to qualify for the 
plans to use these funds?" 
Stecz argued that taking away money from one or two of the most successful com­mittees on SUB. special events and cultural arts, was only going to "hurt the stu­dents that we plan for." 
"Why take SUB money away to provide money for other things when we really plan for the entire campus?" he said. "This reallocation is allowing a lot of organizations that ha:ve not decided on con­crete events to have more money. SUB has proven that we organize events success­fully and they are still taking money away." 
Stecz went on to say that when he met with the Financial Management Board, he had not yet budgeted for specific SUB events. 
"I spoke off the top of my head," he said. "SUB can plan an event in March for April that we do not necessarily have planned in January. It is not right to take away money when the events are not specifically planned." 
Student body treasurer 
is intended to establish "lasting ties between scientists in the U.S. and Germany." 
The engineering department at Notre Dame has undergone significant changes under Michel's leadership. Faculty size, shared professorships, external research funding, graduate student enrollment and the number of Ph.D.'s awarded have all increased during his 10 years in office. New departments of computer science and engineering and civil-engineering and geological sciences were established as well. 
award, 
U.S. scien­tists and scholars must be nominated 
by an emi­
n e n t German scientist. According 

Lingenfelser writes After receiving Student petition and applies for Activities' permission, permission from Joe Lingefenlser begins Cassidy to circulate it. circulating the petition. 

Nerea Arrien defended the proposal by arguing that "this is the way it has always worked." 
"We didn't do this to be spiteful," Arrien said. "We interviewed every account, and asked where they weren't using their money. Of course no one is going to run up and 
Kotlowitz confronts race, poverty 
By CHRISTINA KOLSKI 
News Writer 
The importance of increas­ing work in impoverished communities and the need for institutions like social service agencies to aid in the devel­opment of the communities was the message of Alex Kotlowitz' lecture "Breaking the Silence: Race and Poverty in America." 
"They are our future," Kotlowitz said regarding children and the importance of attention toward them, especially those growing up in poor communities. 
He stressed that there is a strong need to help build a childhood for these less fortu­nate youth. Kotlowitz' great­est hope he said, lies with the children of America. 
He focused on "rebuilding community," which he felt could best be done by making more jobs available. He stat­ed that he felt a loss of work breaks down communities which often results in a divi­sion of loyalties among resi· dents. 
Discussing the difference between the reality of work and the culture of work, Kotlowitz explained that the reality is the material wealth while the culture is temporal and affects a sense of order, purpose, and connection within in individual. He advo­cates concentration on the culture of work to bind indi­viduals in a community. 
give their money back." 
One of Stecz's main argu­ments was that SUB had "concrete" events while other organizations in student gov­ernment who were allocated funds only had 'cool ideas.' 
"Student government does have some cool ideas," Arrien said in response to Stecz's 

The Observer/Alan McWalters 
Alex Kotlowitz lectured yesterday on race and poverty in America. 
Kotlowitz also addressed the principal issue in his book, "There Are No Children Here -the problem of chil­dren and violence. 
"Although it may seem as if these children growing up in the projects become hard-
Lingenfelser appears Group collects before Student Senate to signatures for present the ideas behind presidential the petition. impeachment. 
remark. "This is one of those times where we tried to be fair. Everyone can have good ideas but a decision needs to be made, and this is what we decided." 
After much debate and questioning, the motion to pass the reallocation of stu­
see SENATE I page 4 
ened by the violence, I want you to know that they never do," he said. "They will never get used to it and it will always affect them." 
He emphasized the need for 
see KOTLOWITZ I page 6 
Answering claims that he has back the petition, Lingenlelser sends aletter to the Student Senate Ethics Committee. 
page 2 
• INSIDE ColUMN 

Why do we have 

gym? 
Brian Kessler
"What classes arc you 

Sports Copy Editor
taking this semester'?" This is definitely one of the most frequently asked questions among eollege students. Math, biology, philosophy, English composition, economics and PE may sound like eommon freshmen responses to other Notre Dame students, but when giving this answer to many of my friends who do not attend ND, they are often a little surprised. "You guys have to take gym?", accompanied by a little chuekle, is the response I most eom­monly hear. 
Their mockery is well justified. Seriously, why do we have to take P.E.? Physical educa­tion is by far the most useless class at Notre Dame. Hardly any other universities carry this rnquircmcnt, so it is only fair to ask, why docs Notre Dame? 
It is merely an annoyance to most freshmen. As if five classes and the workload they carry is not enough, freshmen are rnquircd to spend an additional hour and 40 minutes per week play­ing volleyball, tennis, or doing some other aetivity. 
And what do we get for it'? Nothing. Not even a single credit! Does that seem fair? I think not. Okay, perhaps I am a little bitter because I failed my ice-skating rotation for aecumulating three absences in the first four classes (and now I have to take it four days a week on my next rotation if I hope to be a sophomore at the end of this semester). but I cannot help but question the purpose and logic behind having physieal education in college. 
Perhaps they think it will help us get into shape and force us to exercise -I doubt that. Weightlifting for one half-hour is not enough time to get a good workout, and lifting twice a week for a month is not going to get you buff, (neither will activities like golf. social dance, or fencing). Most freshmen probably get more exercise walking to and from Bridget's. 
And if its purpose is to get students in shape, why is it not required all four years? (By no means am I suggesting that.) In addition, last year, Sports Illustrated voted Notre Dame the school with the second-most athletic student body. 1 doubt that can be attributed to fresh­man P.E. class. 
Then, there are all these requirements -no more than one skip per rotation; you have to take concepts of wellness; you cannot take the same activity twice; you cannot take an activity that you are good a.t, etc., etc. Give me a break. Conecpts may sound somewhat useful, but what is the point of running a mile and a half once? And it does not seem like too many peo­ple arc taking what they learn in that class to heart, especially that part about alcohol. 
Some of the classes are fun and introduce students to activities they may have never tried (like social dance, fencing, or golO. but I would not know because those activities were always filled before I got to sign up for them, so I get stuck with things like basic activities or exer­cise for fitness. However, there are some activ­ities that ean be useful, like life-guarding and first aid for example. 
Yet it seems to me that the class is complete­ly useless for most. We are not in high school anymore, so do not treat us like kids and make us go to physical education. Hopefully in the future, freshmen can avoid the mockery from their cronies and be able to tell them that ND caught up with the times and joined the rest of those universities that do not require gym class. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Obseroer. 
• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
David Zachry  Emmert Malloy  
Anne Marie Martingly  Genni Zatorski  
Allison Koenig  Graphics  
Sports  Tom Rolland  
Kathleen Lopez  Production  
Anthony Bianco  Mark DeBoy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kelly Brooks  Michelle Keefe  

Th< Oh«rv<r (USPS 599 l-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday cX<:cpt during exam and vacarion periods. The: Observer is a member of thC' Associated Press. All rcprodu<:tion rights are reserved. 
body has not suffered. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
::l uay ;:o,outn neno J:<orecast AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
: 
r--./------------· H 
Thursday Q :J7 25 Friday ~ :J6 24 
I 
Satur9ay ~ ~J9 31 
\ 

Sund~y ~~8 29 
''''" 
I 

j 

Monday .~ ~J5 29 
't..5"-'\ii'\,.I''>..,,,\;,..A"!.:.) ' 
4,~,~8~8 1) ~ u 
ShowerS T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press Graph;csNst 
The Observer • INSIDE Thursday, January 29, 1998 

BERKELEY, Calif 

enrollment figures has gone up 
In what some say might be thf.' 
··,,,r·. ey·.. dramatically," the official said,first sign of the impact of a voter­refuting the idea that anti-affirma­approved statewide measure ban­tive action policies deterred ning affirmative action, recently Uni¥trti (J. Clh ()rnia · m~~orities from applying. released admissions information There has been a fewer propor­reveals that the number of underrepre­ma surrounding the UC system and tion of minority applications, whieh are sented minorities admitted to the cam­affirmative action," said !rami Osei-not growing as fast as applications pus has dropped. Frimpong, an ASUC senator. from other groups." 
Statistics recorded for the fall 1997 "It's the welcome factor. You're not While enrollment figures last semes­semester indicate that less students in going to apply to a university which ter at UC Berkeley indicate a 56-person ethnic groups with low representation professes by policy not to be open to drop in the number of Latino studenl'i -blacks, Latinos and American diversity." attending the university, they also point Indians-were enrolled in the universi­However, some university adminis-to an 89-person increase among black ty. trators said that other factors were pri-students. 
Student leaders associated the drop marily responsible for the recent "We had more applications from in minority enrollment with the pas­enrollment trends. African Americans last year, and prob-sage of Proposition 209, the statewide "If you look at enrollment figures ably it is the ease that in our admit pool measure banning racial preferences in across the system, they're probably a those applicants were relatively state hiring and contracting, and the result of increasingly greater eompeti-strong," the offidal said. UC Board of Regents' vote to stop affir­tion for enrollment in the university," "This fact blows the theory that mative action in admission policies. said a UC Berkeley official, who minorities no longer feel weleomed by 
"An obvious decrease in enrollment requested to remain anonymous. the campus." by minority students is due to the stig­
"The number of applications and 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN f=LORIOA • UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 
Passing notes helps break social bonds UM doctors re-attach woman's scalp 
TAMPA, Fla. ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
A recent study conducted by a USF professor suggests In one of the first successful surgeries of its kind in the teen-agers passing notes in school may do more than United States, University doctors succeeded in re-attach­annoy the teacher. Exchanging notes in the classroom ing a woman's scalp that had been detached from her creates and breaks social bonds between girls, and as head in a machinery dye press Friday morning. Kevin romance with boys evolves, it helps to "solidify girls' rela­Chung, a University hand surgeon who performed the 1 0­tionships," according to Spencer Cahill, a sociology and hour operation on the patient, Teresa Lasko, said that interdisciplinary social sciences professor. Cahill reported despite adverse conditions, the operation was a suecess. his findings -based on 164 notes passed by middle and "She's very strong and understands what happened," junior high school students in the late 1980s -in his pre­Chung said. "She's optimistic. Ninety-five percent of the liminary paper, "Writing Relations and Romance: scalp is in perfect condition, and the accident came Relationship and Gender Work in Early Adolescents' nowhere close to harming the brain." Lasko was operating Notes." "The notes illustrate both a richness and complex­a light bulb dye press at the Fort James Corporation in ity of girls' relationships," Cahill said. Cahill began his Perrysburg, Ohio when the machine jammed. As she bent study three years ago. He got the idea after reading a down to clear the machine, the press liftnd up' and ripped paper from one of his students. He asked his former stu­her entire scalp off of her head, most likely from the back dents for notes they had written in their adolescent years. to the front, said Jeff Lasko, the victim's husband. After "It's something that nobody has looked at before or stud­rushing the victim to St. Luke's Hospital in neighboring ied, and yet it plays such a huge role in early adolescents' Toledo, doctors suggested that the University's plastie sur­social worlds," he said. geons would be the best to perform the surgery. 
• DUKE UNIVERSITY • UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN 
Law school applications plateau UW speech code falls under scrutiny 
DURHAM. N.C. MADISON, Wis. 
Law school admissions officers around the country­Heated debate is once again surrounding the UW­including those as Harvard, Stanford and Yale law Madison speech code. Supporters of the code argue it pro­schools-are seeking explanations for a steady decrease in tects minority groups from demeaning language. But the applications since 1991. Duke School of Law, however, opposition continues to contend that the speech code has bucked the trend, with its number of applications restricts First Amendment rights. Currently, the speech remaining constant throughout the decade. "Already code applies only to members of the UW faculty and staff'. we're ahead of what we had last year, and we don't It binds faculty and staff to guidelines that discourage expect to drop," said Megan Kimmel, a student services offensive language toward minority groups. It covers dis­officer in the Duke Law School admissions office. She crimination on the basis of race, gender, culture and sexu­noted that the Law School has not recently enhanced al orientation. Members of a subcommittee proposed a recruitment efforts. But other schools have not been as revision of the current speech code Friday at the Spceeh fortunate. Harvard's applicant pool, for instance, has Code Committee's weekly meeting. According to studen dropped by more than 3,000 since 1991. But Mike committee member Jason Shepard, the proposal present­Chmura, news director at Harvard, maintained that ed by the drafting subcommittee clarifies the ambiguous despite the downward trend, the quality of the student language found in the current code. The proposed revision 
provides a more definitive explanation of the eode. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 


The AccuWeather<~~>torecast for noon, Thursday, Jan. 29. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

H L 63 ESI 1:DJ 0 IZ3 §{)~u
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Anaheim  45  64  Cinc1natti  26  48  Ohama  36  45  
Bloomington 28  46  Cleveland  30  44  Philadelphia  25  46  
Boston  31  38  Jackson  30  56  Salem  27  51  
Buffalo  35  46  Lexington  32  49  San Antonio  39  71  
Chicago  32  40  New York  29  46  Youngstown  42  44  

~--~~~-----------­
l 
I 
I 
Thursday, January 29, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 I I 
I l 
l l 


Bishop to call for action 

By KRISTINA ZURCHER News Writer 
Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, the auxiliary bishop of Detroit and pastor of St. Leo's Parish, will pre­sent a talk entitled "Call to Holiness: Action for Justice" tonight on campus. 
Gumbleton is active in many social issues such as civil rights, war and peace, political imprisonment, and poverty. He was the found•. ing president of Pax Christl USA, an organization devot­ed to peacemaking. 
Gumbleton was President of Bread for the World (from 1976-84) and a member of the Bishops' Committee that drafted the pastoral letter, "Challenge of Peace" in 1983, in addition to being a board member for many other service organizations. 
Many organizations have recognized Gumbleton for his peacemaking activities. He has been named a University of Notre Dame Peacemaker and a Pope Paul VI Teacher of Peace, among numerous other hon· ors. 
Gumbleton was ordained 

to the priesthood in 1956 
and earned a doctorate 
degree in Canon Law from 
Pontifical Lateran University 
in Rome in 1964. 
The talk will take place at 

7:30 p.m. at Jordan Auditorium in the College of Business Administration building. 




H ey 
Residence Life dispels housing myths 
By MICHELLE S. PRIMEAU News Writer 
To alleviate much of the confu­sion and stress that accompanies room selection, the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing at Saint Mary's College held its sec­ond annual freshman housing forums Tuesday and Wednesday nights. 
Sessions took place in each of the residence halls to go over the facts and procedure of room selection and to allow students to ask questions. 
Last year, Hesidence Life and Housing held one forum, but only 12 students attended. To encourage participation in this year's forums, the Office created a drawing for the number one room pick for all freshmen who attended. The forums were expanded by a subcommittee of the Housing Commission, chaired by freshman Kara Bergman. 
The forums were originally the idea of the college's previous housing director, Katherine Rosswurm. After she left the col­lege, no one was planning for this year's forums until Bergman, the Regina Hall repre­sentative to the Housing Commission, and her subcom­mittee took on the responsibility. 
"I felt that the forums were very important because not everybody knows all the infor­mation there is," Bergman said. "Even though I was on the sub­committee, there were still things I learned at the forums." 
Suzie Orr, the director of Residence Life and Housing, pre­sented information ranging ·on topics from room deposits to floor plans. 
She included a true and false 

Students... 
Don't Fof9et 
Exercise Your President 

Freshman students listened eagerly as Suzie Orr, director of Residence Life and Housing at Saint Mary's, 
provided information about the process of choosing housing for next year. 
session that addressed the issues such as trading room selection numbers, which is not allowed; saving a room for a friend going abroad first semester, which is also a misnomer; and the notion that specific rooms are blocked out for incoming freshmen which is a also a fallacy. 
"The most common questions asked are about students going abroad, which we addressed in the forums pretty thoroughly, and about room size and layout which we really can't answer," Orr said. 
Orr suggested that students of all classes come into the room selection process prepared. 
• tM . I
Satn ·... att;r s 
Room deposits are due on Feb. 
20. The class lists will be posted on Feb. 13. Deposit lists with randomly determined room selection numbers will be posted on Feb. 25. The class lists, deposit lists and the floor plans of the residence halls can be found in the LeMans lobby. 
The Housing Commission will be communicating with the hall councils to set up open house nights for room viewing. The open houses will be voluntary and held some time in early March. 
"When the students arrive for their room selection they should sit in a place where they can hear well, and bring books, pil­lows, anything to make them­selves comfortable," Orr recom­mended. 
The drawing for the number one freshman room pick will be held tomorrow and the winner will be contacted by the Housing Office. Room selection begins on March 2 for Annunciata. 
Fifth-year seniors and class of 1999 pick on March 23, followed by the class of 2000 on the March 24, and finally the class of 2001 on March 25. Further questions can be directed to any hall director or the Office of Hesidence Life and Housing at 284-4522. 
International Student Festival 
Enjoy music and dances from all around the world! 
Saturday, January 31 at Washington Hall 7:00P.M. 
Tickets available for $3 at the LaFortune Information Desk or for $4 at the door. 

7:00-9: 
Senate 
continued from page l 
dent funds was approved with a 'friendly amendment.' This amendment stipulated that SUB would still lose the $1300 but that the loss would be dis­cussed with the Financial Management Board so that the funds were not necessari­ly taken from one or two areas. 
"This is still a hit, but every­one took one," Oversight Committee chair Matt Mamak said. 
In other Senate News: 
• A motion was passed to pay Campus !look-Up delivery people the salary they were promised but never received because of paperwork mis­takes within student govern­ment. 
According to student body president Matt Griffin, the Executive Cabinet of the stu­dent union decided to pay stu­dents $25 per week to deliver Campus llook-Up to each resi­dence hall. When submitting the "Student Appointment Form" to the Office of Student Activitins, the $25 was divid­nd by two hours of work for an hourly wage of $12.50. This wage exceeded the uni­versity limit of $5.95 and hour. Thus, the workers were paid far lnss than originally agreed upon. 
"Wn had no idea how long the delivery would actually take," Griffin said. "It was hard work. I spent four hours one day delivering it." 
Two dnliverers appealed to the senate to review this problem so that they could receive the wages they deserved. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 29, 1998 

Senate considers web registration 
"The employees should not have to pay for the internal weaknesses of the student government," said Sarah Furge, a delivery person who asked the senate to consider the issue. "We were hired under a verbal agreement by Matt Griffin, and we worked in good faith. When we finally received payment, it was drastically less than we were originally told it would be." 
Many senators agreed that it was not the delivery peo­ple's fault that they had not received the full payment. 
"They should get their money," said Alumni senator Bob Chapski. "What goes on in student government is another issue." 
• A motion to raise the stu­dent activities fee by $70 was passed by the senate even though it was not actually consulted on this issue. 
"The Committee on Residence Life finds the deci­sion to bypass the student senate in formulating and submitting the proposal unwise," Hesidence Life Committee chair Matt Szabo said in a statement to the sen­ate. "This does not change the fact, however, that the pro­posal to increase the student activity fee is well researched and much needed. Therefore, today the committee submits a resolution endorsing the proposal to increase the stu­dent activity fee." 
• Griffin gave his State of the Student Union Address yesterday. lie outlined some of the crucial accomplish­ments of his administration, including SafeHide, Campus !look-Up, and the forthcoming survey that will review the effectiveness of the Griffin!Nass ticket. 

You're our jukebox hero! 
Attention all H.U.G.S. Members: 
There will be a 
mandatory meeting 
on Thursday january 
29th at 7:00 in the C.S. C. 
open while they are register­ing." 
The program will also allow students to access their grades and student information from anywhere in the world, instead of just on Notre Dame's cam­pus. 
"This will not be a secure sys­tem," Steinke said. "Students will have much more freedom from almost any computer." 
Steinke reminded the senate that the system was being test­ed because they are not yet aware of possible bugs. 
"We are not going to jump into anything without testing it," he said. "We just need to see how it goes." 
The program, called IIUSII­LINK, has been an ongoing stu­dent senate project. 

By HEATHER lVlACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor 
Donald Steinke of the Office of the Hegistrar spoke to the sen­ate last night about the possibil­ity of registering for classes on the web. 
"We see a product out there that will be a big step forward," he said. "This program could let you get information about class­es and spaces while you are in the process of registering." 
Steinke stressed that this pro­gram is in its testing phase and that actual online registration would not be a reality until the fall 1999 semester or beyond. He looked to the senate, howev­er, to provide personal informa­tion and feedback as well as to make suggestions as to what dorms would be willing to test this program. 
"We want to test this with two dorms to have a control group," Steinke said. "We are hoping that this program can be per­fected and up by March 15, just after break." 
The program that will be available in the spring will enable students to watch a con­stantly updated class status screen while they are register­ing on the telephone. This will be an improvement from the current system which only pro­vides daily updates. 
"The way it works now, we post an open class list that is outdated after the first 10 min­utes of DART," Steinke said. "this way, students don't have to guess which classes arc still believe the accusation is true or false, or if the investigation is still ongoing, and what actions they took or plan to take if the accusa­tions arc true," he stated. "If either of these options are taken, the petition will be destroynd." 
Lingnnfelser then went on to reprimand The Obsnrvnr's cover­age of the petition story and also the senators who havn yet to step forward in agreement with him. 
"These people are <uting cow­ardly," l.ingenfelsnr said in his letter, relcrring to the "senators who have worked behind the scenes in support of the peti­tion." "I have put my reputation on the line because I know my cause is right. These people know more than I ... but are afraid of the public ey!l. If you truly believe the causn was right, then stand up for what you believn in." 
$ FROM
419 




Letter 
continued from page 1 
for in a student leader? Why do we have checks and balances in our student constitution? And how many mistakes are too many?" 
Lingenfelser went on to say that one of the reasons he has not presented the actual petition is because of ilhe "time con­straints and extra work" it would place on some :student govern­ment members. Ilis letter, how­ever, called for specific action from the student senate in the form of a publlic hearing or a point-by-point review of his alle­gations by the Ethics Committee. 
"The senate can hold a public hearing into each one of these charges," Lingenfelser's letter stated. "I stress public. People can then ask questions to the senators or provide information into this investigation which they 


'THEY SHOULD DISCUSS 
WHETHER THEY 
BEUEVE THE ACCUSATION IS 
TRUE OR FALSE, OR IF THE 
INVESTIGATION IS ONGOING, 
WHAT ACTIONS THEY TOOK 
OR PLAN TO TAKE IF THE 
ACCUSATIONS ARE TRUE.' 
JEREMY LiNGENFELSER 
did not do before." 
Lingenfelser went on to address the possibility of an Ethic Committee investigation. "They should discuss whether they 

COMPLETE PACKAGES INCLUDING R/T AIR, TRANSFERS, 7 NTS. HOTEL PARTIES, ACTIVITIES, & MEALS 





SOU.TH PADRE 
PARn~ WITH 9 PACKAGEs $ FRoM 

···~ p~Sf!!!~~~s Av1.~?u 
DIRECT FROM SOUTH BEND ONLY $99 
BEST PROPERTIES SUNCHASE BEACHFRONT,INVERNESS.

trW 
EV(LUSIVELV·. GULFVIEW, ROYALE BEACH & TENNIS CLUB,
1\ PADRE SOUTH, BAHIA MAR, & MORE!!! 
LOCO 0 


Thursday, January 29, 1998 



'youR PEOPLE ARE BEING KILLED; 
OUR PEOPLE ARE BEING KILLED. 

WE HAVE TO GET BEYOND THIS.' 
GERRY ADAMS, SINN FEIN LEADER 
PICTURED ABOVE AT PEACE TALKS ABOUT 
NORTHERN IRELAND 

Groups conclude peace talks in London 
LONDON 

Protestant and Catholic negotiators wrapped up a London session of the Northern Ireland peace talks today with little to show for their efforts. but organizers expressed a measure of hope. "Every time we meet, trust grows," said Liz O'Donnell, Ireland's deputy minister of foreign affairs. "The parties have been engaging in a way that is positive." Paul Murphy, the deputy secretary in Britain's Northern Ireland office, said he had "no doubt" that the talks were now "biting on the key issues that confront us." Today's was the final day of a three-day round of talks in London. Negotiators started the day's session in a somber mood. although no party has so far rejected outright a British-Irish plan for closer links between Northern Ireland and the Hepublic of Ireland. But O'Donnell said one small breakthrough occurred. The Ulster Unionists, the main pro-British Protestant party in Northern Ireland, offered a "power­ful" analysis of the problems faced by the IHA-allied Sinn Fein-and Sinn Fein appreci­ated it. she said. On Tuesday night, British Prime Minister Tony Blair had appealed to the participants to have a "real engagement" before the May deadline for progress in the talks. which resume in Belfast on Monday. Some observers interpreted that as a call for Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble not just to share the same negotiating chamber as Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams, but to actually converse. Adams had said Tuesday that, so far. the only words exchanged between him and Ulster Unionists came on the first day of the London session when a Trimble colleague, Ken Maginnis, called Adams a terrorist. Adams said he told Maginnis: "Your people are being killed; our people are being killed. We have to get beyond all this." Trimble has said that all matters of substance can be com­municated via former U.S. Sen. George Mitchell, the talks chairman. 

AMEX: Dow 667.55 

+0.96 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1680.82

7615.47 

+31.92 
NYSE: 
509.22 
+4.02 
S&P 500: 977.46

+100.39 +8.44 BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
CUMr.Ali:i Ilrb;EB ~~ CUAIS11~ 1 !:IIlliS l!BICE 
UNJCO INC/N MF.X UNRC 59.9()111, +0.8J:i 2.188 SUN COAST INDS SN 51.H2'1'1• +3.563 10.438 BOYDS WIIEEL.5 INC BYilS 42.23% +0.594 2.000 MIMCURI' MIMC :19..l9'Ht +1.625 5.750 ACTTEI.ECO~F WTS ACTrW 33.331)(, +0.875 1.500 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

EDISON 1\ROTII-WTS f.DBRW 29AI')f' -1.250 3.000 HOO TRAVEl. SYS IFLY 25.89% ·0.907 2.594 ARISH)TLF. CORP ARTL 25.0()1)(, -1.50<1 4.500 CIIIICAL III.D<.i-AOR F.TIICY 24.71% ·0.656 2.000 Ofln ICS I NC-B OOETB 24.44% -1.375 4.250 

... ......
·--------------------------~-------~--------~~--------------~--~--~--------­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 29, 1998 
Kotlowitz 
continued from page I 
moro dirnet intervnnt:ion with the children experinndng vio­lenco. sornothing that has become such an integral part of the livos of the children growing up in tho projocts. 
When asked about the wlwreabouts of the family in his book, Kotlowitz simply said that the family had movnd out of public housing into a townhouso on the west side of Chicago and that the youngest boy, Pharaoh, had 
for their privacy and their friendship. 
' A_ LTHOUGH IT MAY ftsEEM AS IF THESE CHILDREN GROWING UP ION THE PROJECTS BECOME HARDENED BY THE VIo­LENCE, I WANT YOU TO KNOW THAT THEY NEVER DO. THEY WILL NEVER GET USED TO IT AND IT WILL ALWAYS AFFECTED THEM.' 

problem of race relations by stating, "Contemporary race relations is all relative to per­spective." 
He encourages people to "stop and listen to issues of race, class, urban affairs, social policy, and poverty in the United States, while exploring your personal val­ues and opinions on such complex issues." 
Kotlowitz is the author of' the popular Core Course book, "There Are No Children Here." 
He has also written a new book, "The Other Side of the River: A Story of Two Towns. 
IConnecnoN 
A graphic in Tuesday's edition that listed the results of the Late Night Olympics neglected to include Regina Hall with Zahm and Farley halls as the fourth place finishers. Regina, Zahm and Farley finished with 1,530 points.
T~t 
Got News? 


1-5323 
just graduated form high 

a Death, and America's 
school and was planning to ALEX KOTLOWITZ 

Dilemma," which investigates
attnnd college soon. AIITI/01!. "Tillif!li A/IIi NO C/1/UJ/!HN 1/Hilli" 

the racial and economic divide 
Ill~ did not want to go into 

between Benton Harbor and 
specific details out of respect 

Kotlowitz addressed the St. Joseph, Michigan. 
~OBSERVER 
liilh11iiQit.ii1.._1Miw:tPi1Uifl.11!(i4iijHijllltJIIK\ii_,$11itl1131&1Mfi& 


SMC reinstates College Bfowl 
By ERIKA WITTORF the faculty sponsor. yesterday and she knew most News Writrr "Only this fall did we decide of the answers. The questions to resurrect the idea. It was I asked her were bizarre facts. 
Collngn Bowl returns to only a question of timing until People need to foe! more con­Saint Mary's this year. provid­we found a dynamic group to fident." ing a chance for students to carry out the idea. We never The purpose of the local pit thnir knowledge against made it to nationals but we tournament, held this tlwir peors from other institu­once went to Saint Louis for a Saturday from 9 a.m. -4 p.m., tions. regional competition," will be to pick, by elimination, 
Tho college bowl currently Henshaw added. five members who will repre­has five rosters; each one is "I tell people, 'If you like sent Saint Mary's. composed of live people. Once Jeopardy you will really like The second stage of the a team has a completed ros­College bowl.' You can pick tournament will be held at ter. they can give themsnlves a from catego~ies ranging from Valparaiso University from titln. or.~~l. group called them.: English to music," Morrill Feb. 20-22._ College Bowl is 
stdvns, I hosP arP my pants. said. still accepting rosters. Anyone Othor rostPrs havr. yet to "One of the reasons that we interested in participation can detnrmine their titles. have difficulty recruiting stu­contact Morrill, talk to a mem­
"Saint Mary's College Bowl dents to participate is people ber of the Board of started in the late 70's and feel less than adequate," Governance, a member of the eontinwld until approximately Morrill said. "I was quizzing a Student Activities Council, or I985," said Claude Henshaw, freshman in the dining hall sign up in Haggar Hall. 
is now accepting applications for: 
Managing Editor 
Applicants should have strong editorial and journalistic skills and be comfortable in a management position. A basic understanding of newspaper production and experience with the Macintosh system is helpful. Any Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College student is encouraged ro apply. 


Business Manager 
Any sophomore or junior business major at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's interested in valuable work experience is encour­aged ro apply. Applicants should have strong interpersonal and organizational skills and a basic understanding ofaccounting prin­ciples. 
Applicants should submit a rhume and fivr-pagr statement to Heather Cocks by 5 p.m., Tuesday, February 3, 1998. For additional infor­mation about the position, contact Business Manager Tom Roland at 631­5313, Managing Editors Jamie Heisler and Dan Cichalski at 631-4541 or Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast at 631-4542. Applicants are also encour­aged to stop by the office at 314 LaFortune with any questions. 

UNIVERSITY MEMORIAL SERVICE 
FOR 
JOHN HOWARD YODER PROFESSOR 0 1F THEOLOGY FELLOW OF THE JOAN B. KROC INSTITUTE FOR INTERNATION.~L PEACE STUDIES 
FRIDAY, JAlNUARY 30 




3:30P.M. 
BASILICA OF THI~ SACRED HEART 
Thursday, January 29, 1998 
Texas 

Associated Press 
AUSTIN, T:'xas 

The state's highest critninai· court Wednesday rej pickax killer Karla Tucker's bid to keep from becoming the first woman executed in Texas since the Civil War. 
The Court of Criminal Appeals turned aside her argument that the state's clemency process is unconsti­
tutional. . 't·.···....•. 
Tucker, who is scheduled to die Tuesday by injection, has asked the Board of Pardons and Paroles to com~ mute her sentence to life in prison. The board can deny her request or forward a rec­ommendation to Gov. George 
W. Bush. 
Tucker, 38, was con· demned for murdering a tnan and woman with a pickax during a 1983 break-in. 
The former rock band .•··.~rp1u~·tJgroupie and drug-addi~~e(l'"'·r··,~·>l:,;a;; prostitute has insisted she found God behind bars and 
.. :;:(::,;: 

$5 $5 
CERTIFICATE 

$5.00 off certificate Atria Salon $5.00 off certificate 
CERTIFICATE GOOD TOWARDS ANY MANICURE OR PEDICURE SERVICE NOT VALID FOR CASH. CANNOT llE USED FOR RET AIL 

MUST PRESENT CERTIFlCATE TO RECEIVE SPECIAL SAVINGS 
(CERTAIN RESTRICfiONS APPLY) 
289 5080 289 5080 

$5 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend EXPIRATION DATE: 1-30-98 $5 
The Observer • NEWS page7 
•CUBA 


Pope urges freedom for prisoners 


Associated Press 
HAVANA 
Cuba is seriously considering 
Pope John Paul II's appeal to 
free some prisoners, the 
National Assembly speaker 
said, suggesting there could be 
sentence reductions or early 
releases on humanitarian 
grounds. 
"The request will be consid­ered in all seriousness, above all given the way in which it was made and who made it," Speaker Ricardo Alarcon said in comments carried Wednesday by the state-run Prensa Latina news agency. 
John Paul made the call for Cuba to release its "prisoners of conscience" in one of the bluntest political messages of his five-day visit to Cuba. Vatican officials also appealed during the visit for clemency on behalf of several hundred Cuban prisoners, both political detainees and common crimi­nals. 
In his Prensa Latina remarks, Alarcon suggested there could be sentence reduc­tions or early releases on humanitarian grounds for aged or ill prisoners convicted of common crimes or other offens­es. He characterized the pope's request as an "appeal for clemency by the pope similar to those he has made in many places" on his foreign travels. 
Michael E. Ranneberger, head of the Cuban Affairs Office for the U.S. State Department, told The Associated Press in an interview in Havana Wednesday that he hoped -as 
AFP Photo 
Pope John Paul II is currently on a historic mission to Cuba, to pro­mote Catholic interests under Castro's Communist regime. 
the pontiff requested -that was still waiting for a response any inmates released would be to John Paul's appeal. The allowed to stay in the country. Vatican did not make public a 
Fidel Castro's communist gov-list of names or specify the ernment has honored requests number of prisoners that to release prisoners, but has should be released. always insisted that they imme-Human rights activists and diately leave the country. dissidents have said they are 
" The question is whether hoping for the release of as they will be allowed to return to many as 200 people they call Cuban society," Ranneberger political prisoners. Those said. "If that happens, that will activists complain that condi­be a considerable change, not tions for inmates in Cuba's just window dressing." prison system have worsened 
Many Cuban prisoners this with the country's economic week were being allowed rare crisis. family visits, as an apparent Many inmates share cells concession to the pontiff, both with bunk beds stacked three Cuban and American officials high, and a typical breakfast is here said. sugar water and bread. 
In its Wednesday editions, Contagious diseases like tuber­USA Today quoted Alarcon as culosis are not always treated, saying that Cuba would free human rights groups contend. some prisoners in a goodwill While Cuban officials gesture to John Paul. However, acknowledge prison conditions Prensa Latina's account of have worsened in recent years, Alarcon's remarks indicated no they say it is the result of an decision had been made. economic crisis affecting all 
In Rome, the Vatican said it Cubans. 

An Informal Discussion Presented By 




£BT 
ex. 

For Juniors in all Colleges Interested in Learning More About Life As an Analyst in the Investment Banking Industry 
Notre Dame Room of the l\1orris Inn Sunday, February 1st 7:00pm Hors d'oeuvres and Beverages to be Provided 
In attendance from the ND Class of 1997: 
GR Nelson Kim Ryan Troy Phillips Luke Johnson 


page 8 
Planes' mishaps spark inquiry 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN. Ill. 
President Clinton had to turn to a backup air­plane Wednesday after Air Force One got stuck in mud while preparing to taxi up a runway. !lours earlier, the president's plane and a commercial jet passed close to each other -prompting a federal review. 
Al'tl~r switching to a replace­ment plane in Illinois. the pres­ident landed safely in La Crosse. Wis., and att1mded his schedul1~d rally. lie seemed unfazed by the incident, play­
ing a vigorous round of hearts, 
..__........______ __..__ his favorite card game, through Clinton it all. 
"It was an extremely close game, and I lost." joked deputy White House chief of staff John Podesta. 
The incident oceurred as Air Force One was turning to taxi to the runway for takeoff. There was no indication aboard the plane that anything was wrong -until the pilot gunned the engine twice in an attempt to free the plane and wound up sinking the wheels further into the mud. 
Just hours earlier, the president's plane and a commercial airliner, a Delta MD-88, passed each other with just over the required three-mile sepa­ration between them. Air Force One was taking ofT from Andrews Air Force Base in suburban Maryland and heading west to Champaign, while 
the Delta flight was heading south for a landing at Washington National Airport, just across the Potomae Hivcr, according to Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Eliot Brenner. 
The FAA said Wednesday night the distance between the planes may have been up to 3.25 miles, just over the minimum 3 mile sep­aration standard. The agency originally had reported the dis­tance between as 2.S8 miles, less than the rnquirnd separation. 

Alumni Awareness Week Scavenger Hunt 
Clue #4: 
Come to this to rest your feet. Under it you will find something neat! 

CfFte Quest for tfte Crown c:ontinues ... 

Careers '98 
Employer Requirements: 

Wfio wiff 6e the next Snow Queen 
SENIORS and JUNIORS, who are U.S. Citizens or 

in Cctvctnctugfi afct(f's seconi\ Annuct( 
Permanent Residents Overall GPA 3.0 or above 
• All Business Majors Welcome 





8J'l$t() ~Ac,G~ 
• 
Engineering Mafors-(EE &ME) 

• 
Science Majors interested in Sales or Management 

• 
Computer Science Majors 



• Liberal Arts Majors interested in Sales or Hey guys, do you know any 
Management CAVANAUGH girls? 
This Friday, January 30th 9 a.m. -4 p.m. Oakbrook Terrace Hilton Suites (outside Chicago) Oakbrook Terrace, IL (maps abailable at C & P) 
No Charge to Attend! Call Scott Grove at 
(630) 941-0100 to confirm your attendance! 

DON'TMISS THIS GREAT CAREER OPPORTUNITY!! 
Thursday, January 29, 1998

The Observer • NEWS 
Albright: 1J.s.\~]~ptepared to use force 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON Iraq might be seeking an end to the crisis over U.N. weapons inspec· 
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said Wednesday. 
Hours before departing on It mission to Europe and the Persian Gulf region, 
Albtigh't
Albright told a news conference, "I am not going anywhere to seek support. I am going to explain our position.'' 
She acknowledged, however that her preference is to act in such situ­ations with the support of other countries. 
Albright began her session with reporters by assailing Iraq's refusal to allow U.N. weapons inspe<:tors unlimited access to suspected weapons sites. 
She said these activities "pose a. profound threat to the international security and peace,'' addingtl}.at the ... "diplomatic string is running out.'' ·•'x 
"We cannot allow Sadda.m Hussein once again to brandish 
Last Chance to Attend! 
weapons of mass destruction and use them to intimidate Iraq's neigh­bors and threaten the world," she said. 
Later, however, she indicated that Iraq may be looking for a way out of a potential confrontation with the 
U.S. military. 
She said the "message is begin­ning to take hold" in Iraq that it cannot continue to defy the will of the United Nations by limiting weapons inspections. She suggested that "the remarkable unity" of the international community in support of unfettered U.N. access may be having an impact in Baghdad. 
She shied away from discussing timetables for Iraqi compliance although administration officials have indicated the issue may come to a head next month. 
While also declining to discuss battle plans being drawn up in the Pentagon. Albright said. 
"I think that there should be no doubt about the strength ofU.S. force." 
Iraqi Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed ai~Sahhaf, meanwhile, accused the United States of fabri~ eating the crisis as an excuse to attack Iraq. He said he may com­plain to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, Netherlands. 
Al-Sahhaf said he received a letter on the crisis from Hussian envoy Viktor Posuvalyuk but refused to disclose the contents. 
Hussia is strongly opposed to mili­tary intervention in Iraq and helped defuse a crisis in November when Iraq sought to bar Americans from weapons inspection teams. 
Albright was due to depart around midnight Wednesday to confer with the French, British and Hussian for­eign ministers and thon go to tho Persian Gulf for talks with leaders of Arab countries that are within Iraq's range. 
The majority and minority leaders of the Senate, Trent Lott, H-Miss., and Tom Daschle, D-S.D .• respec­tively, both spoke out in support of Clinton's Iraq policy. 
"There should be no doubt ... about our intent to support," Clinton on Iraq, Daschle said. 
Lott said. "When it comes to our country and foreign policy and secu­rity risks, we need to stick togeth­er." At the same time, he cautioned Clinton against acting precipitously. 
During her trip, Albright also plans to meet separately with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and with Palestinian leader Vasser Arafat on ideas President Clinton presented to both officials last week for advancing the Middle East peace process. 


Come check out our great specials from south of the border. 
Dart league starts tonight @ 1 0:00 PM. IMatchups TBA. 



~~5j® M~~~©~lfU Wi®~~ ~~ ~~~ #-\~~rmlfU~~~~lfU~©~ ~~~~~ 


--~-­








VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, January 29, 1998 page 9 

THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager. ............................ Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor...... . .... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager.................... Jennifer Breslow Spom Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager. . ...... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller........................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Edi[Or ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily rcAect rhe policies of the administration of either insriwrion. The news is reported a.<; accurately and obiectivdy as possib\e. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Edi[Or, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Phoro Editor, and Associate New1oo Editor. Commentaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views ofrhe authors, and nor neces­sarily rhose ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 6.~ 1-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sport!> 631-4543 Office Manager 631-7471 Acccm/Saim Marv's 631-4540 Fax 631-6927 Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr.1 @nd.edu General Information 631-7471 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu 
Clinton Embarrasses All of Us 
MAYNOOTI-1, Ireland 

R
ecent headlines in foreign newspapers have read, "Political foes see Clinton weakened by sex scandal" and "Clinton issues his strongest denial to date." Regardless of whether or not he had an affair with Monica Lewinsky, or if he encouraged her to lie about it. scandals like these are detrimen­tal to the American image. When they arise, it is not only the president's image that is tar­nished -the image of American society is scarred as well. 
It should not be surprising to the American people that this presidency has been plagued by issues such as these. Character issues were in the forefront of the 1992 election. At that time, Clinton supporters argued that issues of moral character were not relevant to his competence as president. It seems that this latest scandal proves that character counts. 
If it is true that he encouraged Lewinsky to commit perjury, then the issue is no longer moral but legal. Who knows what other means the president has used to cover his tracks'? How can we ask a man so lacking in integrity to deal with more pressing issues in a way that represents our best interests'? 
When the president loses credibility the nation loses credibility. It seems that the involvement of the president in this scandal has alrnady detracted from the United States' clout at the international bargaining table. Many foreign papers have already picked up on the speculation that Clinton would bomb Iraq merely as a means of diverting attention from his latest scandaL 
Whether that is even remotely a possibility or not, the fact remains that the question is on the minds of those in other nations. Many already believe that the U.S. abuses its power on tlw world seene.. The appearance that we would usn that power to relieve the pressure of a sex scandal on our president is an incredi­bly damning suggestion. If military action is ordernd against Iraq, many will have already made up their minds as to what they believe the motivation behind the action was. 
As the debate over whether or not Clinton 
would have to deal with Paula Jones' charges 
heated up, many people felt that he should not 
have had to respond to the charges because it 
looked bad for the president to be dealing with 
these types of accusations. Others opposed 
arguments such as these, maintaining that the 
• DOONESBURY 
I?UJ<C, I stflt:AR. IT-I Jf/A5NT 
JUMPING BAit/ IJUSTHAV£3 
/iV51/V&$70 
lA/<eCAR/3
or/ 

president is not above the law and as such must answer to it. Another popular argument against pursuing Jones' charges was that the president doesn't have time to deal with a court case. It would seem though, that he managed to find time for a liaison with a 21­year-old intern. 
If the image of the office was tarnished by the Jones case, it has been downright corrod­ed by the consistent onslaught of scandals that have plagued the Clinton presidency. It is not the investigation or prosecution of the accusa­tions that is hurting the president's image, but his apparent belief that he is above the law. It seems that in light of the recurring pattern of lawless behavior it is crucial to the integrity of the presidency that these allegations be pur­sued to the conclusive conviction or exonera­tion of the president. 
If what the French are calling "Fornigate" proves true for Clinton, the question of impeachment is the next to be answered. In the meantime we can all learn from this and all the previous embarrassments of his presi­dency. 
We now know that candidates who try to brush off their personal lives and the decisions they make as irrelevant to the position they are running for, we will know better. The way people make decisions is extremely relevant to their methods of governance. What they con­sider to be priorities and what they arc willing to do to get their own way in their private lives are likely to be similar in their professional dealings. If you disagree with the decisions they make in their personal lives, it is only natural to assume that you would also dis­agree with many they would make in a profes­sional setting. 
When the president is embarrassed by his actions, the nation should be too. With this scandal making front page news on virtually every foreign newspaper, it is obvious that what goes on in the White House is just as interesting abroad as it is at home. When the president acts inappropriately, those outside the U.S. must witness it and shake their heads and wonder why we would choose to elect someone who would behave in such a way to represent us. 
Bridget O'Connor Sophomore, Ireland Program January 28, 1998 
WOK, IS IT MON&YYCV 80YS tt/ANT?ICANPAYl J'V& G()T,,. UH," t&T!!i 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
"Hewho laughs, lasts." 
-Mary Pettibone Poole 
-----~ -~-----,--~----­
;ACnM~NT­
page 10 Thursday, January 29, 1998 
**** 1/2 stars



various artists Great E;rpectations sdtk. 
out of five 

• 
O
ver the past few years motion picture soundtracks have become increasingly pop­ular in the music industry. They offer an opportunity for artists from varying genres to come together to form a cohesive theme. Some have been inordinately successful, like the sound­tracks for "Pulp Fiction," "Romeo and Juliet," and "Trainspotting," while others have been huge flops. The failures represent the difficulty in maintaining unity and the difficulties of avoiding sounding like a random mix of songs. Director Alfonso Cuoron had some extra problems 
I when trying to culminate a soundtrack for the much 
I anticipated modernization of Charles Dickens's
I 
"Great Expectations." Not only did Cuoron have to 
1, worry about establishing a continuous theme in· the 
I soundtrack, but he also had to take into considera­tion the original intentions of the author. Upon one listen to the soundtrack, clearly Cuoron overcame these problems, and the result is something almost as timeless as the original novel. · Every song in the album is as enchanting as it is mysterious, capturing the tone of Dickens's classic. Featuring an assortment of mostly ballads and acoustic sets, even by some unexpected artists, the album begins with an engaging and riveting track from Tori Amos, "Siren." The poetry of her voice as well as the her language successfully sets the tone for the rest of the album as well as the movie. In a rare ballad from Soundgarden's Chris Cornell, 

"Sunshower," he captures the samr1 passion that had 
not been seen since his acoustic vnrsion of "Lik(J 
Suicide." Scott Weiland, formerly of Stonn Temple 
Pilots fame, slows things down as well in "Lady, Your 
Roof Brings Me Down," which offers a very interest­
ing combination of purely European romantic instru­
mental complete with violin, grand piano, and even. 
an accordion courtesy Sheryl Crow with the distinc­
tive and unique croonings of Weiland. 
Pulp comes up big as well in this album with their 
hip narrative based track, "Like a Friend." As usual, 
Pulp's narratives are as impressive as the powerful 
David Bowie-esque vocals of frontman··~larvis Cocker. 
lie powers through the song with amazing grace and 
confidence without losing any of the romance. 
The soundtrack also features Heel', Poe, The 
Grateful Dead, David Garza and another anthematie 
hymn from lggy Pop, although he even tones it down 
a little in order to accommodate the mood. 
The album is aural bliss. It is like a ride through . the aqueducts of Venice in a gondola with your arm 
swinging casually over the side, letting your fingers 
touch the water ever so gently. It is magical, beauti­
ful, mesmerizing, and quite frankly romantic. 
by Joey Crawford 
*** 1/2 stars


Please (single) 
out of five 


D
espite horrendous marketing and an even worse American tour, U2's album POP pro­duced many fine singles, the latest of which has been "Please." This epic release pushes the limits of the traditional single classification. Not only does the disc have live and updated studio ver­sions ofthe title track, but it also boasts live record­ings of "Staring at the Sun," "Where The Streets Have No Name" and ~with or Without You." While recycling past hits may smack of commercial desper­ation, like a currency speculator caught with too many Korean won, there's more going on here than we might think. 
Though they fancy themselves creative and daring, U2 is very sensitive to criticism. Its 1991 Achtung Baby reinvention was largely fueled by the senti­ments of more traditional fans and the Irish press who felt the band had strayed too far from their roots into the depths of musical Americana with the Rattle & Hum debacle. In 1992, many overlooked the tacky media onslaught of the ZOO TV tour, because it was new and exciting. Now however, in an age where e­mail and video conferencing is often an inconvenient fact of daily office life, the technological overload of this past summer's Popmart tour left many a stadium at less than full capacity and more than one tour pro­moter jobless. People came to see rock n' roll; what they got was "Wheel of Fortune." 
As a result, the Popmart tour that later swept through Europe and Latin Americ.a was greatly cut down in its electronic shnnanigans and songs like "Sunday Bloody Sunday" and "New Y(Jar's Day" wnre reinstated to the set. Bono even said, "...this is prob­ably the last time you see us do an over-the-top pro­duction like this one." 
By releasing a straight rock n' roll single like "Please," which can remind the listener of previous whisper to crescendo efforts such as "Bad" or "Exit," the band has dearly signaled its repentant redirec­tion. The song's lyrical focus on all-party pnacc talks in Northern Ireland gives U2 traditionalists additional cause for glee. Students of world affairs will enjoy the single cover, which sardonically displays thn faces of the region's four main political players: Gerry Adams, David Trimble, John llurnn and Ian Paisley. · 
In the next year or two, expect a back-to-basks U2 album and heartfelt live performanees to go with it, as the biggest band of the 80s use~> its last few years to cement its plaee in history. "Please" is just the start. 
by Sean King 
upcoming cOn Paula Cole Feb. 1 Ekoostik Hookah Feb.S The Jayhawks Feb. 7 Aerosmith Feb. 10 ALAN JACKSON/DEANNA CARTER FEB. 13 Otis Rush Feb. 13 Mighty Blue Kings Feb. 14 Ben Folds Five Feb. 15 SHverchair Feb. 16 Jimmy Buffett Feb. 16 Sugar Ray/Goldfinger Feb. 16 Blessed Union of Souls Feb. 17 Willie Nelson Feb.23 Primus/Blink 182 Feb.27 Smoking Popes/Menthol Feb.28 The Chieftains March 1 Counting Crows March 10-11 Big Head Todd & The Monsters March 13 Blur March 15  e region Piere' s (Fort Wayne) House of Blues (Chicago) Metro (Chicago) The Palace (Auburn Hills) JOYCE CENTER ARENA Buddy Guy's Legends (Chicago) Citi Lounge (Toledo) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Vic Theatre (Chicago) The Palace (Auburn Hills) Newport Music Hall (Columbus) House of Blues (Chicago) House of Blues (Chicago) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Frankie's (Toledo) Clowes Memorial Hall (Indianapolis) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Riviera (Chicago)  

Thursday, January 29, 1998 
page 11 
pearl jam 


Yield 
W
hatever happened to grunge? Soundgarden is a thing of the past, no one seems to know if Alice in Chains is still a band, and flannel shirts ar2 slowly disappearing from the store shelves. Grunge was really considered dead when Pearl Jam's fourth album, 96's No Cede, started off on a bang but quick­ly fizzled. Critics believed that grunge was definitely on the way out since its biggest act struggled on the album charts. What many failed to see was that No Code marked a musical divergence for the band. Although the album was beautifully crafted; it lacked the "harder" numbers that sold the band's previous releases. However, on Yield, due out Feb. 3, the band manages to create an album that echoes the sound which won over fans in the beginning yet continues the band's musical evolution. 
The opener, "Brain of J," proves that Pearl Jam has not forgotten its hard rock and punk roots. Set against Jack Irons' pounding drums, the song takes full advantage of the band's signature ebb-and-flow style, accounting for the rollercoaster-like feel as the band goes from a chaotic punk tempo to a slow, melodic dirge. Eddie Vedder shows no signs of letting up; with his vocals changing from a grunt to a falset­to, he once again delivers an incredible performance. 
Like 94's Vitalogy and No Code, many of the tracks begin with a short, experimental jam, which totally gives the listener a false sense of how the song is going to develop. "Faithful" opens with laid-back bassline only to escalate into a distorted powerchord­driven rock number. Like Vitalogy's "Not For You," "No Way" provides a forum for Vedder to express his thoughts on the rock industry and Pearl Jam's ardu­ous fight against its injustices. With a low, gritty gui­tar at the forefront, Vedder sings "I've stopped trying 
****stars 
out of five 
to make a difference/ I'm not trying to make a differ­ence," only to crush the lie with a simple "no way." 
Destined to be a lighter-flicker, the band reaches its mellowest with the sentimental "Wish List." Sung with the sincerity that can only be achieved by Vedder, this mid-tempo track captures the band at its best. Mike McCready's lead guitar work perfectly complements the melancholy lyrics while the rest of the band provides a backing track that is equally masterful. 
The band kicks in again at a breakneck speed with "Do The Evolution," one of the best tracks on the album. Beginning with a guitar riff characteristic of rhythm guitarist Stone Gossard, the song is dominat­ed by punk influences and bashing drums. Vedder, sounding rather contemptuous, gives what appears to be a social commentary with such lyrics as ''I'm a thief/ I'm a liar/There's my church/ I sing in the choir." 
"Push Me, Pull Me" can easily be mistaken for a Doors song. As the band delivers a high-powered per­formance, the tempo of Vedder's vocals barely stray from spoken-word. As incompatible as this matchup might seem, the song works. The album should have ended here, for the encore, "All Those Yesterdays," is a simple, mundane lullaby that sounds like it was written on the spot. 
Yield clearly shows that Pearl Jam is still at the top of its game. The band still possesses the knack for writing a solid rock number, and it isn't afraid to reveal themselves in the more mellow tracks. Although the grunge revolution might have faded away, Pearl Jam definitely hasn't. 
by Emmett Malloy 

***stars
So Long and Thanks For 
out of five
nofx 

All the Shoes 
T
nn years ago, NOFX was either too damn cool frighteningly similar to just about every song the or too damn strange for the mainstream music Police ever recorded, but overall this album is a thor­industry. Today, they are the mainstream oughly enjoyable effort. music industry: just another punk-skalska­Today, there is a veritable medley of "ska-core" punk quartet singing short but sweet songs about bands. all of which are essentially trying to accom­nothing particularly important. Although some seri­plish the same goal: write fun, catchy songs with ous ND punks like Jill "The Jagged Edge" Jamieson tongue firmly planted in cheek at all times. NOFX have long since written NOFX off as " ... a bunch of have continued to separate themselves from the ever­bastards who sold out to the hypocrisy of the growing pack of ska-core bands by constantly taking California skateboarding establishment," the cool the creative risks that few other bands have either kids from Cali have returned with one of their the talent or the nerve to do. So Long and Thanks For strongest albums in years, the eclectic So Long and All the Shoes simply continues NOFX's tradition of Thanks For All the Shoes. recording quality music that is almost always cre­
If nothing else, a good punk album should be ative and fun. Perhaps no ND student can better unadulterated. chaotic fun. much like five angry summarize the powerful effects of NOFX than Domers at a University of Michigan Hash Bash. So Matthew "Garbage" Gardner, who said, "My eyes Long and Thanks For All the Shoes certainly satisfies have seen the sun, my brain has blocked the rain; the fun requirement, as Fat Mike humorously recalls after NOFX, I no longer feel the pain." a reticent girlfriend ("Monosyllabic Girl") and enu­merates the drawbacks of sobriety ("quart in ses­sion"). Furthermore, there is even an attempt at cov­ering a song in French ("Champs Alysees"), a bizarre byDJ Spak burst of random creativity that actually works rather well. Of course, there are a few boring instances of formulaic punk fodder, and "eat the meek" sounds 
~A~fter===havin===g N===o,thThe Lowdown ~thep~op/roc~kcate~gory~~ortou===red fav~orite 
America for the last nine album, best new artist, and best 
months, U2 is now taking new band, duo, or group. Puf PopMart to the Southern to carry it. The previous broadcast in ous record holder, Los Del Rio's Daddy, however, lost in all five Hemisphere to begin the fourth leg of January 1995 featured live perfor-"Macarena" had a non-consecutive 60-categories in which he was nominated. its worldwide adventure. The band mances by Pearl Jam and fellow bands week run. Among winners were Celine Dion arrived in Rio de Janeiro for a three-like Soundgarden, Mudhoney, and (female artist), Bush (artist alternative), day stint in Brazil. From there, they'll Mad Season. The program, which will Former Soundgarden drummer and Boyz II Men (band, duo, or group, play dates in Argentina and Chile last up to four hours, will also be cyber-Matt Cameron, who contributes soul/R&B). Whoopie. before heading overseas to perform in cast at various websites, which is prob-on some tracks for the upcoming Australia and Japan. U2 will complete ably the best option for ND students Smashing Pumpkins album, told Web n a recent taping of "The Sally this leg of the tour on March 21 with its wishing to listen in. More information is users last week that he is not joining Jesse Raphael Show," Angie first-ever concert in Johannesburg, availablat www.fivehorizons.com/misc/ the band. The Pumpkins are currently Bowie, David Bowie's ex-wife,
0 

South Africa. spr2/stations.html. without a drummer ever since Matt changed her story about the infamous Walker left. time she found David and Mick Jagger 
T
he remaining members of The Beatles' Sgt. Pepper's Lonely passed out on a bed. When an audience Sublime, bassist Eric Wilson and Hearts Club Band was voted Artist collaborations are still run­member asked whether the two singers drummer Bud Gaugh, will soon Britain's most popular album of ning rampant, especially in had clothes on or not, she said they did. be taking their new band, Long Beach all time. The poll, which consisted of urban music. Lost Boyz, DMX, Dub Allstars, on the road. The band's 36,000 music lovers, included only one and members of the Wu-Tang Clan are ess than a week after being sound resembles that of Sublime, but American album in the top 10: all making guest appearances on the released from a hospital where he the nine-piece band, which includes Nirvana's Nevermind. forthcoming Onyx album, Shut 'Em was undergoing treatment for an
L 

brass. percussion and organs, also ven­Down, which is scheduled for release addiction to painkillers, soul singer tures in the territory of dancehall reg­Jewel, who recently sang the on April 20. The double album, featur­James Brown was arrested on charges gae. National Anthem at the Super ing 20 songs and five skit, is the group's of marijuana possession and unlawful 
Bowl, will continue to set a new first release in three years. use of a firearm. Brown, 64, released 
n support of their new album, record every week until "Foolish on bond after he agreed to turn himsel Yield, Pearl Jam once again will be Games"f'You Were Meant For Me" sin­The biggest winners at the 25th in. A court date for the singer is not yet taking over the airwaves. The pro­gle falls off the Hot 100. The single is annual American Music Awards known. 
gram, "Self-Pollution Radio II," can be now in its 62nd consecutive chart week, were the ubiquitous Spice Girls, broadcasted by any station that wishes am all-time longevity mark. The previ-who walked away with three awards in Compiled by Emmett Malloy 
----------------------·---~...............---------.,_---~---~~--------------------­
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 


No. 17 West Virginia extends winning streak 
Associatrd Pres. three-pointer. his third of the half. Lockhart finished the half PITTSBURG!! with 10 points to pace the 
Adrian Owens and Brent Panthers. Solheim each scored Hi points West Virginia responded with and Adrian Pledger hit a pair of a 5-0 run in the half's final free throws with 13 seconds left minute, going on top 33-28 with to enable 17th-ranked West less than 10 seconds before the Virginia to hold ofT a feisty break. capped by a three-point­Pittsburgh squad, 76-72. er by Greg Jones. The three by 
Tlw Mountaineers (18-3) Jones was the first for WVU, exte11ded their winning which converted on just 1-of-8 strnak to four games, while the tries from beyond the arc. The Panthers (7-8) dropped their Mountaineers took a three­third in a row. and came out on point lead into the break, at the losing end for the fifth time 33-30. in s<wen outings. 
Trailing 68-66 with 3:16 No.5 Kansas 94 remaining in regulation, Baylor 47 the Mountaineers went on a 8-2 run to reclaim a four-point An aggressive, trapping advantage, 74-70. with 25 sec­defense by No. 5 Kansas took onds left. Brian Lewin capped Baylor completely out of its the run with a free throw, offense Wednesday night and giving West Virgina a lead it the Jayhawks rolled to a 94-47 would not relinquish. Jarrett victory behind 21 points by Lockhart made a driving layup Raef LaFrentz and 18 by Billy with 15 seconds left to play. Thomas. but Pledger converted his pair LaFrentz had 11 rebounds for of free throws to seal the victo­his 11th double-double of the 

ry. season. Kenny Gregory also had Brent Solheim's 16 points helped the Mountaineers overcome a two-point deficit with 3:16 left in the game. With the game tied 4-4. with 18 points for Kansas (23-3, 7-1 
Bears had 29 turnovers for the 3-point range and scored 26 field and made just four of 1017:45 rmnaining in the opening Big 12) and Paul Pierce added game and shot just 32 percent. points as No. 15 Arkansas beat free throws over the next eight
half. the Mountaineers 15. 

Thomas, the 3-point specialist LSU 85-68 Wednesday night. minutes.
looked as if they were going to Brian Skinner had 13 points for Kansas. had 10 points in the LSU trailed 64-58 with 7:39 Arkansas outscored LSU 18-6break the game wide open. for Baylor (10-8, 5-3), off his decisive first-half run. Thomas left. Three minutes later they during that stretch to take a 23­embarking on an 11-2 run over average of 19.1 per game. 

was 3-of-7 from 3-point range. trailed by 18 points as Bradley 16 lead.
the next four minutes to Skinner was held in check by 

Kansas led 47-17 late in the hit five straight field goals. The taller Hazorbacks turned
stake claim to a nine-point T.J. Pugh and had just four 

first hal( when Hyan Robertson including two 3-pointers. to put up the defensive pressure overlead. 15-6, with 13:45 to go in points in the decisive first half stole the ball. passed to Thomas Arkansas (17-3, 6-1 SEC) up the last 7 1/2 minutes of the
the first half. However. the and was not a factor in the 

to start a fast break and 76-58. first half. outscoring the Tigers
Panthers responded with five game. 

Thomas passed off to LaFrentz Maurice Carter had 29 points 18-12 down the streteh to leadunanswered points to draw Kansas led 49-17 at halftime for a layup and a three-point for LSU, while Hogers 41-30 at halftime.
within four points, 15-11, at the against Baylor to extend the --play. LaFrentz had 31 points Washington added 11. LSU opened the second half

I I:50 mark of the half. nation's longest homecourt and 15 rebounds in his first Arkansas missed its first five with a 12-6 run that put it with­Pittsburgh climbed back into winning streak. 

game back against Texas Tech. shots as LSU took a 6-2 lead. in 47-42 six minutes in.
the game during the latter Baylor committed 17 Derek Hood made the Arkansas then hit three 3­

part of the first half. tyif)g the turnovers in the first half and 

No. l!i Arkansas 85 · Razorback's first basket at pointers. two straight by
game at 28-28, with 1:20 seemed .powerless to handlethe LSU 68 16:27. Bradley and another by Chrisremaining before intermission. traps, which forced the Bears LSU led 10-4 with 15:34 left, Walker, to take a 56-42 lead aLockhart knotted the game on a far out of their offense. The Pat Bradley was 4-of-8 from but hit only one shot from the minute later. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day
Classifieds classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing 
thank god!!!  
NOTICES  LOST: GOLD DOLFIN BRACELET if found plese call  COMPUTER HELP Set up IBM software.  MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO SHARE 2-BDRM HOME.  TICKETS  colleen,  
X 0849  Knowledge of Filemaker 3.0,  INC. WASHER/DRYER,  I wait and wail and still, not a  
Lotus SmartSuite, Zip backup  PHONE, SATELITE TV.  WANTED-NO vs MIAMI B­ drop for my parched throat!  
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and  WANTED Child care 1 to 3 afternoons per week. 12:30 to 5:30 for  and scanning. Good pay. Call Ron 273-1717. FORRENT J  219-289-1357. CUTE 1-BDRM APT. $380 273-3996  Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 PERSONAL  They should post a sign. Oabondon all hope, ye who enter here.6 -don antonio  
check out the best Spring  two girls  Nice 4 bdrm for next school  THE IRISH CONNECTION IS  
Break vacations around. Don't  ages 4 and 8 (8 year-old after  WALK TO CAMPUS  year. Newly remodeled, off­ ADOPTION IS LOVE  HERE! GRAND OPENING FRI  
take a chance with an unkown  3:30).  Transportation a big  2-5 BEDROOM HOMES  street pkg. $600/mo + utilities &  Happily married NO Alumni  JAN 30! TONS OF SPECIALS,  
agency or some 1-800 number. Limited space available, so  plus. Good pay. Call 277­7071.  $195/PERSON 232-2595  dep. Close to school.  couple, with adopted 3 year old daughter, wants to shower new  EVERYONE 21 + WELCOME! CALL 233-8505 FOR INFO!  
book now!  233-9805  baby with love. Artistic full-time  
Anthony Travel. Inc.  4 or 5 bedrm furnished house,  mom, athletic lawyer dad, and  STOMPER BOB @ IRISH  
Lafortune Student Center  w/d, sand volleyball, 119 N. St.  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME  a sister to play with. Friends on  CONNECTION THIS SATUR­ 
631-7080  Attn-SOPH./ FR. GIRLS:  Peter, 233-9947  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  the swingset, trips to the zoo,  DAY NIGHT.  BE THERE!  
GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO  grandma, play groups, lulla­ 
••• ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE  Furn. 1 bdrm apt., $400/mo,  2773097  bies, too. This is a home where  Aikido -the gentle martial art  
TO RESERVE YOUR SPOT  LEAD SINGER  room, $200/mo. Private  wishes come true. We'd like to  
FOR SPRING BREAK.  WANTED  entrance, kitchen, utilities  POT A TO HOUSE 8 BED­ get to know you. Call Shawn &  Classes M 7-8:30, Am 301 &  
GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR 6  included, laundry, phone, 2 mn.  ROOM FOR NEXT SCHOOL  Meg 800-767-4257.  F 7:30-9 Am 219 in  
OR MORE.  N. of campus. Cal\272-061!5.  YEAR 2773097  Legal/Medical/ Allowable exp.  Rockne.Beginners class starts  
LEISURE TOURS HAS  I am a Soph. Rhythm Guitarist  paid.  on Friday, Jan 30 7:30 after a  
PACKAGES WITH DIRECT  with ORIGINAL songs look­ ROOM4Rent $128+ulil Sha;'e  Bed 'N Breakfast Registry  demo of Dody Chang sensei  
FLIGHT FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. 1-800-838-8203.  ing to start POP/ROCK band. Must love all Top 40 kind of stuff.  house w/ grad stu Good neigh­borhd 280-527 4  Try The Option A "Home Away From Home!" FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPW  Come Dig a Pony with FAT TONY  from Chicago. Bring comfort­able clothes.  
WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM -THE COPY SHOP -LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  Call Dan @ x 0817. IF YOU'RE THE BEST OJ AT NO THEN THE IRISH CON­NECTION WANTS YOU! SPIN  Need roommate. Close to cam­pus. $325/mo. 243-0491. ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS  219-291-7153 FOR SALE  at CLUB 23 TONIGHT! "He's easily the ugliest member of the band. Maybe the ugliest person in the greater Michiana area."  Thank goodness: Baseball season is almost here. Let's Go Mets!  
AND WEEKENDS!\! Mon -Thur 7:30am ­Midnight  AT ND'S BEST NEW NIGHT­CLUB. NEED NOT BE 21. CALL MATT @ 233-8505 FOR  AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­ Beautiful Brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic Mattress  Brendan "He smells ... .even worse than  Here is to Madison and a good time to be had by all.  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  INFO.  5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN.  set and frame. New, never  soft  Hutch- 
Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon -Midnight CALL 631-COPY ILOST & FOUND I  GLACIER NATIONAL PARK. MONT ANA Come have the best summer of your life. St. Mary Lodge & Resort, Glacier  WALK. 243-0658. 2 BEDRM HOUSE FOR RENT GRANGER -WASHER, DRYER, REFRIG &STOVE.  used, still in plastic. $225 219­862-2082 Macintosh Classic w/ key­brd+Mouse+28.8 Modem. 634­2149  Mike ''Thank God he's only our tem­porary bass player." -Joel  \ hope that you realize that we all miss you terribly and our lives don't feel complete with­out your witty remarks and phenomenal production skills.  
-­ If anyone at Thurs. Job Fair  Park's finest now hiring for the 1998 summer season. Call 1­ $695 MONTH PLUS SECURI­TY  I love it when classes get can­celed  Keenan Revue !-shirts on sale for$10.  
picked up a long black Evan  800-368-3689 or e-mail name  CALL BOB 232-6434  
Piccone woman's dress coat by mistake, call Mel issa at 4­0897.  and address to: jobs@glcpark.com for an appli­cation. Don't pass up the opportunity of a lifetime.  6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAM­PUS. WASHER/DRYER SUM­MER OR FALL.272-6551  FOR SALE or TRADE: Honda CRX-HF '91. 85,500 miles. $6000. Call Eric: 234-2465.  t minus just a few weeks till south padre .... physco rose has not called.  You got these claws and these fangs and you don't know how to kill the bunny! Baby, you're so money!  

Thursday, January 29, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
Calendar of Events 
Notre Dame Encounter Riltr&ilt ~'49 
Friday-Sunday, January , Fatima Retreat Center 
Learning to Talk of 
Lindenwood Retreat 
African American 
Saturday, January 31 
Sign-up for NDE 
This Week 103 Hesburgh 
Rejoice! Black 
Sunday, February 1 4:00pm 
Sorin Hall Chapel 
~h 

scri 
New Series of 
week prayer"'"'""''""' 
February 4, 7 . ...,...,-·u.v 
Stanford ChapeL 
Schneider·Kirner 
Fourth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, January 31. 
5:00p.m. Rev. James Lies, C.S.C 
Sunday, February 1. 
10:00 a.m. Rev. James Lies, C.S.C. 


11:45 a.m. Most Rev. John M. D' Arcy, D.O. 
Sunday Vespers Sunday, February 1. 
7:15p.m. Mr. John Dillon 
Scripture Readings 
1st Reading Jeremiah 1:4-5, 17-19 2nd Reading 1 Corinthians 12:31-13:13 Gospel Luke 4:21-30 
What Am I Going to Do with My Life? 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
"I'm not sure." There is only one other phrase which I have spoken more often than "I'm not sure," and that is "I don't know." 
When I was younger I thought that as I grew older, and more educated and experienced, I would have fewer and fewer occasions to use these phrases. And yet, as I have gained so much in the way of education, and experience, I find myself using just such phrases all the more. 
Some years ago, a senior here at Notre Dame told the story that when she was a first year student she was pretty sure she want­ed to be an attorney. She studied like a future Supreme Court jus­tice, giving her whole self to that future goal. She even began to pick out law schools. As time passed, and as she became more educated and more experienced, she became less certain. For various reasons, some which she didn't understand herself, she grew less sure about being an attorney by the time her second semester senior year rolled around. When asked about what she was going to do after gradua­tion some four short months away, she would says, "I don't know." This was difficult not only because she felt the need to be certain, but because she felt like she owed it to others, especially to her parents, to be certain, and to be successful. 
Although the story of Jesus tells us that what we do is impor­tant, it also tells us that how we do what we do is often more impor­tant. Jesus was somewhat of a wandering preacher and teacher who told people who seemed sure of what God wanted them to do and sure of an exact way to be saved that they better think again. Jesus welcomed with love all people, especially those most brutally excluded by society. I imagine that it was not just what Jesus did that revealed him as God, but how he did it. Christianity is first and foremost a way of living in the world. 
We are well into the second semester. At times it may seem 
like the pressure is on. There is that popular question, "What are 
you going to do?" Anxiety seems to go hand-in-hand with uncer­
tainty. In many ways, society expects us to grow in certainty, not 
uncertainty. 

Perhaps many of us, especially seniors in their final semester, 
are realizing that when it comes to discerning a career, one hundred 
percent certainty is at least unlikely and probably impossible. 
Maybe one of the most important aspects of education is the 
dispelling of the ways we oversimplify ourselves and others. There 
is something about dying and rising in all of this, a dying and rising 
which takes place during this life. Hopefully, we die to old ways of 
seeing ourselves that were narrow and exact in order to continually 
rise to new ways of seeing ourselves and others that allow us the 
freedom to change and appreciate the ability of others to change. 
Perhaps this dying and rising calls us to be a little more comfortable 
with not being so sure all of the time, and not knowing everything 
there is to know, exactly. What else is faith for but to give us the 
surety to rest comfortably in the unsurety. 
Certainly, what we do with our lives is important. It can have 
a great impact on others. However, maybe the question which 
should precede "What do I want to do?" is "How do I want to be?" 
And maybe then our uncertainty can move us ever closer to the 
truth of our lives, and of our faith. 
Maybe the most important thing is not always what we do 
with our lives, but how we do it. 
lJ a 
~ 
VJ 
~ 
c:, 
~ 
~ ~ 
~ ~ 
a 
~ 
VJ 
• 
• 
• 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 1998 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll 

Lake Forest outplays Belles 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Wrirer 
No matter how much energy or inspiration a eoach puts into a pep talk, sometimes it just doesn't work. 
Saint Mary's basketball team (5-12) learned this lesson last night in a 92-72 loss to Lake Forest. 
Coach David Hoeder led the Belles, down 26-42 at the half. into the locker room to pump up the f'lat team. The Belles had allowed Lake Forest to drill an 11-0 run and lead by more than 20 points. 
"lie was fired up and told us not to quit." Darcy Nikes said. "lie said, 'If you want to quit you can. but we've always been a team that's played with hustle.'" 
After a sloppy first half of a miserable .333 field goal rate and most of their 26 turnovers. the Belles came out playing like the team their coach had described. The 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
tenacious efforts of Hiley. With 
17:03 to go in the game, the 6­foot-5 center hit two freethrows to give Notre Dame a 33-32 lead. Villanova came right back. eonverting another Irish turnover into an easy layup. thfl next possession, sophomort' Nielfl lvey hit a long rangP three-pointer to make it a 36­34 game with 16:25 to play. 
llowever, it would the las1 lead of the game for the Irish. The Villanova uflense went intc overdrive. going on a 22-2 run over the next 10 minutes to blow the game wide open. The lead was stretched to 20 point~ several times before a failed rally pushed Notre Dame over 
BOOK SEARCH 

• Used, rare and out-of-print books % 
' • Initial cost of $2.00 ~ G ~
Nationally-circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shorin-Ryu Karate -This semester~long course meets in Rockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-7:30 p.m., starting today. You must register in advance at RecSports and the fee is $18.00. Calll-8237. 
Ballet ....... RecSports will be sponsoring Beginner and Advanced Ballet. Both classes are semester-long classes with a fee of $35. All classes will be held in Rockne Rm. 
301. Classes will begin on Saturday. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will be offered Saturdays and· Tuesdays from noon•1:30 p.m. (Sat.) and 8-9 
p.m. (Tues.) in Rockne Rm. 301. 
Cross Country Ski Clinics -RecSports will be sponsor­ing three clinics this winter. The first clinic will be on Saturday, at 11 a.m. and there will be two offered on Saturday, Feb. 7, one at 10 
a.m. and the second one at 2 
p.m. The fee for the clinic is $5 with an additional $4 rental fee if you need to rent skis. Registration in advance is required for all three cross­country ski clinics. 
Aikido -Classes on Monday from 7 to 8:30p.m. in Room 301. and Friday from 
7:30 to 9:30p.m. in Room 219 in Rockne. Beginners' class starts Friday at 7:30 after a demonstration with Dody Chang, sensei from Chicago. Bring comfortable clothes. 
Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club ­Don Brasi, a third dogrtle black belt of Shaolin Do, will perform a demonstration this Sunday, from 10 a.m. to noon in Room 219 Uoekne. Private lessons are also available from this instuctor. All stu­dents and faculty are wel­come. The club also meets every week at the same place and time. For more informa­tion, contaet Teo at 4-3013. 
locker room rally seemed to be a temporary remedy as the Belles intensified their game. 
"We started demanding more of ourselves in the sec­ond half," Boeder said. 
Nikes epitomized her coach's half-time speech, scoring 24 
points  and  drawing  fouls  
which  earned  13  of those  
points.  

"I felt I forced it a lot in the !'irst half," Nikes said. "So I tried to step up my game and set an example by being more selective with my shots." 
.Iulie McGill chipped in with 15 points and 10 rebounds, while Brenda Hoban and Charlotte Albrecht had 14 and 13 points. 
The Belles were often on the floor, wrestling for every loose ball and tangling with the Foresters for rebounds. Saint Mary's improved its scoring percentage to .419 and cut its deficit to 11. 
But the Foresters knew this meant they had to take it a 
the 50 point mark. 
In the end, it was the numer­ous turnovers and lack of perimeter defense that did the Irish in. Notre Dame turned the ball over 23 times, and the Wildcats took full advantage of it. Villanova scored 25 points off of turnovers, compared to six for the Irish. The Wildcats notch higher as well. 

"They made a nice run in the second half," Lake Forest head coach .Iackie Staats said. "I think that shows our team did a great job because we were able to hold them off." 
Despite the sparked begin­ning of the second half, Saint Mary's began to wear down. The Foresters played solid defense and scored 30 points ofT turnovers. 
But even with the boost in physical toughness, Saint Mary's could not hang on mentally. Shooting almost 66 percent, the Foresters pulled away by 20 points. 
"It's hard to keep pushing when you're 5-12 and down by 20," Nikes said. "Most teams would quit, but I never see that in our team. I'm tired, but you've got to keep playing hard." 
The Belles hope to wake up Saturday a.s they retest their endurance at home against Defiance College. 
field and 8 for 20 from beyond the arc. 
The Irish will now head back to the Joycn Center in hope that they will be able to rebound this weekend against Seton Hall. The tip off with the Pirates is set for Saturday at 2 pm, and will be televised tape-delayed on WIIME TV-46 later that 
Big East 6 Women's Basketball Standings 

as of Jan. 27 Conference Games Overall Record 
w L PCT. w L PCT. Connecticut 9 0 1.000 19 1 .950 Notre Dame 7 3 .700 13 5 .722 Boston College 7 3 .700 12 6 .667 
Villanova 6 4 .600 12 6 .667 West Virginia 5 5 .500 9 8 .529 St. John's 3 8 .273 5 14 .263 
Ever)1 Thursday 

Attors fron1 the London Stage AMidsummer Night.,s Dream 
by  William  Shakespea  e  
Thursday February 5..  .......... 7:30 pm  Saturday Matinee. February 7........  2:30 pm  
Friday February 6  ...................... 7:30 pm  Saturday. February 7........................... 7:30 pm  

Playing at Washington Hall • Reserved Seats S16 • Seniors S14 • All Students S12 TICkets available at LaFortune Student Center Ticket Office MasterCard and Visa orders call631-8128. 
The residency of Actors from the london Stage is sponsored by the Paul M. and Barbara Henkels Visiting Scholar Series. 
1998 
Earn $$$ for Spring Break February 20, 21, 22 
Sign ups are: Sat 1/31 9:30a.m.-5:00 p.rrc. Sun 2/111:00 a.m.-5:00p.m. 
Catering Employment Office • 108 LaFortune ·. 631-5449/8792 
A\\ ..You..Can..£at Pizza & Pasta for 
$5.00 
• 6:00 p.m.• 8:30 p.m. • 
Thursday, January 29, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
•NHL 
Pens pickup late goal in 2-2 tie with Washington 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

/\lex Hicks scored on an improbable shot with 2:31 left in regulation Wednesday night to give the Pittsburgh Penguins a 2-2 tie with Washington, end­ing the Capitals' five-game home winning streak. 
Hicks took a rising slap shot from just inside the blue line that appeared headed to the left of' the net. But the puck bounced off goaltender Olaf Kolzig's outstretched glove and into the net. enabling Pittsburgh to extend its unbeaten streak to five games (3-0-2). 
Peter Bondra and Adam Oatns both had a goal and an assist for the Capitals, who couldn't convert a power play that began with 45 seconds left in rngulation and extended into thn extra period. 
Pittsburgh's Jaromir Jagr, 
who signed a four-year, $38 million extension on Tuesday, registered his 39th assist and league-leading 61st point on a first-period goal by Stu Barnes. Tom Barrasso had 24 saves for the Penguins, including six in overtime. 
Pittsburgh's Kevin Hatcher was called for interference 24 seconds into the game and Oates converted the power play at 1:14, scoring from the slot after taking a pass from Brunette. 
Barnes tied it at 7:33 on Pittsburgh's first shot, a power-play goal in which Hatcher and Jagr received assists. 
The Capitals didn't take their first shot in the second period until the 9:35 mark, shortly after Pittsburgh's Robert Lang was given a four-minute penal­ty for high-sticking. 
After Washington struggled to get the puck into the 

r------------------------, 
A Single Night Stay. 

!!!!!!•!!!!!!•!I!!!!!•!! This Certificate is Redeemable 
~-v ----• ­
for $5.00 Off a Single Night Knights Stay at Knights Inn. 
Redeemable for $5 off the standard room rate at Knights

Inn 
Inn. Not valid on Football Weekends. Cannot be com­bined with any other discounts or special offers. Voucher is not redeemable for cash. One voucher per stay. No photocopies accepted. Voucher must be presented at time of check-in. Offer expires June 30, 1999. 
L------------------------~ 
~'~soC>,. 
-fJit{;'·0
< .. = 
NOTRE DAME 

Penguins' zone for much of the penalty, Bondra got his 33rd goal on a rebound of a shot by Oates at 12:50 for a 2-1 lead. 
Detroit 4 
Phoenix 4 
Martin Lapointe's power-play goal midway through the third period gave Detroit a 4-4 tie with the Phoenix Coyotes on Wednesday night in a game marred by an injury to Red Wings star Steve Yzerman. 
Bob Corkum, Keith Tkachuk, Jeremy Roenick and Deron Quint scored for Phoenix. Vyacheslav Kozlov, Brent Gilchrist and Brendan Shanahan also scored for Detroit. 
Neither team had managed an overtime shot on goal when Shanahan was sent off for holding Tkachuk with 2:03 remaining. Shorthanded, the Red Wings fired three shots at Nikolai Khabibulin during the penalty. Kozlov rifled a hard shot from between the circles that Khabibulin stopped as the horn sounded ending the game. 
Corkum's lOth goal and Tkachuk's 33rd gave Phoenix a 2-0 lead early in the first peri­od. Kozlov's 16th cut the deficit to 2-1 with 2:50 left in the peri­od. 
Joe Kocur fed a perfect pass to Gilchrist between the circles and he flipped the puck into the upper left corner of the net 
1:13 into the second period to tie it 2-2. 
But it didn't last long. Hoenick deflected Oleg Tversovsky's shot past Chris Osgood at 4:15 for his 15th 

KAT Photo 

Fresh off of signing a new $38 million extension on his contract Jaromir Jagr picked up an assist for the Penguins. ' 
goal and a 3-2 lead while his fourth goal and a 4-3 lead Kozlov was off for roughing. 1:49 into the third period. 
With 19 seconds left in Lapointe took a feed between Tocchet's five-minute kneeing the circles from Viacheslav penalty, Shanahan's 22ndgoal, Festisov and beat Khabibulin on a deflection of Nicklas high on the glove side for his Lidstrom's shot, tied it 3-3 with ninth goal to tie it 4-4 at 9:55 
9:40 left in the second. of the third while Jim 
Quint drew Osgood far out of McKenzie was off for hooking the net, then snapped a shot Kozlov. past him from the left circle for 
January 26 -January 31, 1998 ' 
Monday -Saturday: Say 11 Hello'' Drive Say Hello to SARG members and Alumni Board Members and receive a free meal voucher for Wendy's (while supplies last.) 
Monday -Friday: Scavenger Hunt Watch the Observer for daily clues. If you find the winning token, you will receive a $100 gift certificate to one of the following establishments: Tippecanoe Place, Best Buy, or UP Mall. 
Wednesday -Friday: Alumni Board Senior Ballots Students who will be graduating in May will be receiving a ballot to vote for the National Alumni Board of Directors. Seniors, look for a friendly SARG student for more details. 
Thursday: Volleyball Game Come out and join SARG in this heated match against the National Alumni Board. Game is scheduled for 1O:OOpm at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
**For information on your local club or If you would like join your local club or SARG, call the Alumni Office at 1-6000 * * 
.--------------------~-----~----------..-----------~~­
page 16 The Observer ·• CLUB SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 1998 

!I 
!i 
li 
li way to
ii
il
il 
H 
li the top 
:! 
By PAUL DIAMANTOPOULOS

ii 
Sports Writer 

I 
Volleyball is a very familiar sport here at Notre Dame, with a women's team that has been a powerful force in the Big East. What few people realize is that tlwn~ is another team representing our university in volleyball: the men's club team. 
They are not a part of a conference, do not play on tlw volleyball eourt in the Joyce Center, do not recruit players, but the men's elub does exist and more and more people are getting involved with it. Those seeking a place on the team began by attend­

II ing Activities Night in the beginning of the year. This
!I 
ynar, 40 peopiP-tried for the team and after two days of

I' 
tryouts, the team was narrowed down to 18.

·I
II Most of the players on this year's squad are return­
d
ll ing from last year. Among the six starters, four of them i! arn st~niors who have played together since freshman 
I 
year.

I 
Captain and president Andy Powell is one of those

I scmior starters. "Our team has a lot of experience, even though we don't have any juniors. A few sophomores have stepped up and have put us in a position to do
I,I 
well." !,'I The learn begins the year conditioning and receiving
il 
instruction from fourth-year coach, Steve Hendricks.

! 
During the spring semester, the team begins playing games, and as Benedict Ciszek said, "time (for the team) to shine." 
I lome gamns and practices are currently held in the pit of tho Joyce Center; however, many players arc hoping that this will change with the addition of the

li new HccSports building. Despite the location of their games, Lh1~re has been a drastic difference in the atten­dance at the games so far this year. "At the !Western Michigan University] game last week we had at least double the amount of people we had from last year," commented Ciszek, a sophomore dr.fensive specialist. In the first horne game of the sea­son last Thursday, Notre Dame defeated Western Michigan in three straight sets, 15-13, 15-10 and 15­13. The team understands that it is still early in the sea­son, and that they have a long way to go, according to Powell. "Coming off the winter break, we have played as well as we could by stepping up our level of intensity. We're still trying to get to a point where we are operating on a competitive level. Our middle hitters need to gel with our setters better and that will ultimately improve out communication," said Powell. The elub will have an opportunity to hone their skills this weekend when·they travel to Michigan for a series of games. On Friday they face Eastern Michigan and then will be in Ann Arbor for a tournament hosted by the University of Michigan. Most of the volleyball team's opponents hail from the Big I 0, but the team does not belong in a division or have an affiliation with a conference. The end of the season ineludes two competitions: the MIVA tourna­nwnt (March 27 -29) and the National Club Volleyball Tournament at the University of Texas (April 15-19) in whieh thfl team will try to demonstrate how strong this program actually is. 
The other Irish net­ters: With tl women's 
I 
squad that's constantly a 
·I 

powerhouse in the Big 
II

East, the men's team is looking to share some of II 
I 

their spotlight with one of the most dedicated club sport teams on campus. 
-photos by joe Stark 

Men's Vollleyball 
Remaining SchE!dule anuary 0 @Eastern Michigan  Bp.m  
1@Michigan Tour.  TBA'il:~l  

@Michigan Stale 0NORTHWESTEFIN .t:''''" Bp~lli 
5 @Northwestern 8 PURDUE &LEWIS 
1TOURNAMENT 7 @MIVA Tournament TBA!i~! pril 5@Nat. Tour (U of Texas) TBA 
The Observer/Tom Roland 
:; 
; ~ 
i: li 
,, l! H 
}l 
~ j 
,,~ j 
J. 

!I,, H 
II
d 
li 
ll
II !I 
II 
II 
I 
! I 
u 
'i 
il 
t! 
ji 

~ ~-----------------.-­
Thursday, January 29, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
... 

• NFL 
San Francisco 49ers ownership status up in air 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 

Thl) San Francisco 49ers are for sale. Or maybe not. The new stadium project is way over budget and will be delayed. Or maybe not. Eddie DeBartolo still controls the team. Or maybe not. 
A series of conflicting pro­nouncements from opposite sides of tho country in recent days has loft one of the best National Football League teams in administrative disarray. 
"If you are confused, it's because we're confused," one helpless team official told The 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALl 
Associated Press on condition he remain unidentified. 
The week began 'with press reports saying Eddie DeBartolo's sister, Denise DeBartolo York, might force sale of the five-time Super Bowl champions if her brother did not formally turn over control of the team. Eddie DeBartolo had agreed to resign after he was named as a target of a federal gambling corruption probe in Louisiana. 
NFL Commissioner Paul Tagliabue was in San Francisco on Monday to meet with Policy and Mayor Willie Brown to dis­cuss the problem . 

The San Francisco Examiner reported that Tagliabue predict­ed the DeBartolos would resolve matters themselves, but said he would settle the rift if necessary. 
Hardly had he finished speak­ing, however, when Denise DeBartolo York, chief executive officer of The Edward J. DeBartolo Corp. and chairman of the San Francisco 49ers, issued a press release at her Youngstown, Ohio, headquar­ters that created shock at team headquarters. 
She assured the public that "statements that I would per­sonally force a sale are inaccu­rate," but then threw a bomb of 

Valentin re-signs with BoSox for $25 million 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

John Valentin, who once vowed to leave the Red Sox, agreed Wednesday to a $25 million, four-year contract with Boston that includes a team option for 2002. 
Valentin made $3.8 million last year and had asked for $7 million in salary arbitration, $1.5 million more than the team's offer. The contract includes a $1 million signing bonus, a $5.1 million salary this year and $6.1 million in each of the next three seasons. 
He is a key to Boston's offense and, 
KAT Photo 
with the signings of pitchers Pedro
Utility infielder John Valentin (center) signed a new contract with Boston yesterday. Next up 
Martinez and Dennis Eckersley indicating 
for contract talks, Valentin hopes, is college teammate Mo Vaughn (42). 

Be a part of one of NO's best traditions. 
Applic*ations are auailable in{+the SUB office 
_,,.. ,. '· . _.,.... 
' 
c\f M 

d floor v:arortune 
~~w 

Application Deadline eHtended until February 1nth 
her own. 
DeBartolo York said the board had unanimously agreed they "could not proceed on the San Frt>ncisco stadium project" until financial issues were resolved. She said San Francisco voters had approved a $350 million project, but its price had grown to $525 million. 
The price of the stadium ­combined with an adjoining shopping center -had always been $525 million. 
Later Wednesday, city Supervisor Michael Yaki com­plained that the team and the stadium were victims of a DeBartolo family power strug­gle. 
"The 49ers have become one of the pawns, or a hostage to that," Yaki said. 
At the center of the dispute between DeBartolo and his sis­ter is an agreement to restruc­ture the 49ers' ownership and management in the wake of his resignation as chief executive. 
DeBartolo stepped down because of a possible federal indictment on bribery charges associated with a riverboat casi­no project in Louisiana. 
NFL officials were reportedly disturbed that the' issue of own­ership of the NFC West champi­ons was still up in the air. 
Bed'N Breakfast Registry 

Try the Option 
A "Home Away from Home!" 
FB-Grad-Fr. Or.-JPW 
219-291-7153 

a strong push to contend for the AL East title this season, his return is significant. 
Garciaparra won the AL Rookie of the Year award last season. Valentin started it at second base and moved to third after Tim Naehring's season-ending elbow injury in July. Naehring isn't expected to be ready for the start of the season. 
In six seasons with Boston, Valentin has a .296 average with 83 homers and 378 RBis. Last year he led the AL in dou­bles and had career highs of 176 hits, 47 doubles, five triples and 287 total bases despite batting . 160 for the first month. He finished with a .306 average, 18 homers and 77 RBis. 
Now he'd like to see the Red Sox re­
sign Vaughn, his college team­mate at Seton Hall. Vaughn's contract expires after the 1998 season and the Red Sox want to sign him to an extension. Vaughn is scheduled to make $6:6 million this season, the last of an $18.6 million, three-year contract. 
Valentin "is concerned about what's going on with Mo and he wants Mo to be on the team too for years to come," Moss said. "But, short of that, he is impressed with some of the moves the Red Sox made." 


Free admission to all students 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, January 29, 1998 
... Hoops 
continued from page 20 
times." sophomore Keith Friel said. "Sometimes we're able to dig ourselves out of the whole but tonight we couldn't." 
One of the reasons was that then~ seemed to be a lid on the Irish basket in the first half. Antoni Wyche finally broke thP seal at the 17 minute mark, but no one could 
.. get on track. Pat Garrity suffered from foul trouble and never found his rhythm. The senior for­ward finished with 14 points on 4-for-13 shooting from the field and an uncharacteristic 6-for-1 0 performance from the free throw line. "They did a good job on Pat Garrity and had a lot of differ-
Men's Basketball 
Remaining Schedule 
January  
31  at St. John's  2:30p.m.  
February  
5  at Rutgers  7:30p.m.  
7  at Georgetown  12 p.m.  

11 BOSTON COLLEGE 7:30p.m. 14 at Miami 7:30p.m. 17 CONNECTICUT 7:30p.m. 22 MIAMI 12 p.m. 25 GEORGETOWN! 9p.m. 28 at Providence 3p.m.March 4-7 BIG EAST TOUR. TBA 
Ihe ODserverffom Roland 

Insight 
continued from page 20 
beginning in the Big East slowed the Irish down a bit. However. last week's perfor­mance -a 20 point victory over No. IS Syracuse that fol­lowed a win over No. 19 West Virginia -exhibited some real promise from the Irish. 
But if the Irish expect to climb out to the gray area of solid. but not consistent per­formances with teams like Villanova. they have to beat tlwm. 
In fairness to Notre Dame, last night's game presented the team with more of a task than a top-25 team even would. Any team that can start ofT its conference run 4-0 is obviously not as bad as a five-game losing streak would indicate. In essence, the Cats arn pretty consistent. just con­ent people on him." MacLeod said. "We did not get many good looks at the basket." 
"They came out on lire, they had everybody hitting," Friel said. "It was their best case scenario and our worst case." 
The Irish, who find them­selves at the top of the Big East in three point field goal percentage at 38 percent, con­nected on just one of nine in the first half. Friel drained three in a row late in the sec­ond half to finish with 14 points on 5-for-11 shooting. 
Although Notre Dame found itself down 33-11 before the porn porn squad made its first appearance, the team did have opportunities to stage a comeback. 
Villanova scored just five points in the last seven min­utes, but the Irish could only pull within 16 by half-time. 
"In the first half they had stopped scoring and at the end we missed an opportunity but we couldn't hit a free throw and missed one-and-one chances," MacLeod said. 
The beginning of the second half seemed like a rerun of the first as the Wildcats scored the first live points. The Irish looked like they were going to put a run together when Garrity drained a 14-footer, and Friel and freshman Martin lngelsby nailed back to back threes pulling them with­in 13 with over 16 minutes left. 
Villanova had the answer for 
sistently good or consistently bad. 
Still, the Irish need wins like 
last night t.o change their 
description from just plain 
dangerous to consistently dan­
gerous. In order to be taken 
seriously by its conference, it 
needs to stop letting the emo­
tional edge get the best of the 
players so that they start play­
ing their game. 
Granted, in games like Syracuse, the emotional edge played for the advantage of Notre Dame. The underdog mentality of the Irish, com­bined with a lackadaisical approach of the Orangemen led to the huge victory. However, in last night's game the desperation of Villanova going into to the game set the tone before the first buzzer sounded. 
For thre.e years now, the 
Irish have been deemed the 
up-and-coming team of the 
conference. Head coach John 

NulrH Dame Communicarron and 


Biddy Wells will Dresen! Bey[ld l~e Graye ASeinGt;oo ot G~usts 10 Stones, Poems. and Eoit~h~ 
Tuesday February 3 430 Dnt.. Washington Hall free and open to the public 

the home team as Lynch hit a three pointer to kill Notre Dame's momentum. 
Notre Dame again tried to make a run, but they could not capitalize on opportunities. After a three point play by Leviticus Williamson and two free throws from Wyche the Irish were again down by 13. 
That number again proved to be unludy. Senior Derek Manner missed two free throws and a layup before Villanova again responded behind Bigus and a three­pointer from John Celested. 
"It was kind of demoralizing when we'd fight back and could hav11 the momentum swing our way but we missed some easy opportunities and some free throws and it just wasn't to be tonight," Friel said. 
Ingelsby scored 10 points on 4-for-7 shooting but his back­court mate Antoni Wyche hit just two of his 11 field goal attempts for six points. Center Phil Hickey added nine points and six rebounds. 
"We didn't seem to be as sharp," MaeLeod said. "We're sluggish and they were razor sharp." 
The most puzzling thing for coach MacLeod and his staff must be the inconsistency of his squad. Part of the problem may be youth, as MacLeod explains. 
"That's some of it and understanding that this is con­ference play and how impor-
MacLeod is landing blue-chip 
recruits and that futuristic 
approach is getting nearer and 
nearer. But the Irish cannot 
hide behind their potential any 
more because the perfor­
mances of the last two weeks 
have shown that their poten­
tial is manifesting itself. 
So what if Pat Garrity is the 
go-to man on the team, and 
when he doesn't have what an 
exceptional performance, it 
usually reflects on the team's 
performance (with the excep­
tion of against Seton Hall in 
which Garrity had 37 points 
and the team lost)'? 

So what if Keith Friel doesn't 
have a record-breaking three-
point performance? · 

The Irish must develop the 
much-needed confidence dis­
played by their big scorers, 
and turn that into a confi­
dence reflected by the whole 
team that will help them win 
both big games and the 
gimmes. 

Theatre presents 
Peter Lindtord w;il pmsem The Poelry ol Phrldarkin. !he Poears ol a 
Vcrv Prrvate Man 
W~dnesday. february 4 4:30pm. Wash:ng!Dn flali fro~ and open to !he public 
tant every game is," he said. "What you did on last Wednesday doesn't mean a lick, when you beat a West Virginia or a Syracuse those are things you think about later on. 
"We beat two top 20 teams but that's in the past, what we needed to understand was what was coming and that was a very hungry team. 
"There are going to be games like this again, you never want to see it again bi.It it happens," MacLeod contin­ued. 
"We've got to find a way, when its bad like this to some­how salvage the game and slowly get back into it." 

The Irish will not have much time to regroup as their next three games are on the road. This Saturday Notre Dame will play St. .John's on NBC at Madison Square Garden. 
"Wn have to be preparn, this is a game Saturday against a team that has been on a tear," MacLeod said. "We'll have our hands full and wn'II have to bounce back." 
"We did this to ourselves tonight but give Villanova credit do not underestimate what they did," he continued. 
"We have to find a way to get ourselves back on track." 
The Observer is looking for sports copy editors. If interested, please contact Michael Day at 1-4543. 
Attention: Hugs Students 
Would you like to receive professional training and gain valuable experience? 
You have an opportunity to be part of an innovative and highly successful in-home educational intervention program for chil­dren. 
Hours are flexible. Site arrangements will be established. 
For more information, call: Carol at Memorial Hospital 284-3013 
Class of 2000 

IP 

February. :k..8 
\'-·, ·'­
at Cas~c·,ade: M.ountain 
$65 includes bus, box I unch, I ift ti"cket, ski rental, and hotel. 
' l '.. ~ ' 
Tickets and more information at LaFortune Information Desk on Wednesday 

Thursday, January 29, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
HEAYEN~ ANNIJA L~~~~_____:__ 
AND THE 'WINNER 
OF FATHER AND SON or TH~: YEAfL. y£s, TtlfY vJ!N IT A9AIN... 
JESUS N.D oD! 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
DILBERT 
_____:_---:?; 



57 Train track bar 58 Become unhinged 60 Daughter of 
Oceanus 61 Green shade 62 Curtain shade 63 "Boy, is it hot!" 64 Ancient meeting 
place 65 Smart 
DOWN 
1 Atlantic City casino, with "the" 
2Voyaging 30newayto retaliate 4 Kansas motto 
word 5 On one's case &Soon 1 Where a 
president presides &Bio 27 Builder's sheet 9 Cry in a grade-S 31 James Hilton horror movie locale 10 Cry of delight 32 Something 11 Some 60's drawn museum 33 Soft~soap
exhibits 
34 "Diane" composer 14 Party Rapee 20 Pagan follower? 36 Woods sound, maybe 37 Language for 350 million called 41 Bores 
I 

Aries -Be prepared to meet some strange and excellent people today. You find yourself open to new influences. The appeal of the unusual could have a pro­found effect on your life -if you let it. 
Taurus -Taurus stands in the here and now with plant­ed feet, snorting with anger as others prance ofT toward a sketchy future. It may be your job to pick up the pieces today. You are allowed to sayMIKE PETERS "told you so" only once. 
Gemini-You are present­ed with an ongoing problem, and amaze everyone by quickly identifying the cause. New minds arrive on the scene with a fresh supply of ideas. Answers are closely tied to their questions today. 
Cancer -It is time to stop putting off that unpleasant matter you hoped would go away on its own. Responsibility starts here today. Be strong and adult even if you feel like a reluc­tant child. 
Leo -Prepare for rejec­tion today just in case it hap­pens. Yes, someone might actually turn you down. strange as that may seem. Defuse a potential crisis with your sunny smile. 
Virgo -Try to be a little flexible in case the wind shifts and changes everything around you. The more rigid you let yourself become, the harder it will be to move. Leave yourself some extra rope. 
Libra -Your muse extends its visit. Today is another work in progress. The Aquarius Moon carries water jugs filled at the foun­tain of youth. Everything happens for a good reason, and the outcome is wonder­ful. 
Scorpio -Minor repairs and household chores should be addressed today. Postpone a social engagement until you have worked out some of your life's internal details. A true friend will wait until you are ready. 
Sagittarius -You embrace bizarre people or events that might confuse or outrage oth­ers. You know genius when you see it at work. Find a way to make yourself useful in an avant garde situation. 
Capricorn -You are as surprised as anyone else by a decision you make. Know the risk of falling if you want to go out on a limb. Your mater­ial concerns are minor in the face of sudden inspiration. 
Aquarius -This is the day to share your vision for the future or to loudly protest against something that might keep that vision from coming true. You will certainly be heard, and you may even have an effect. 
Pisces -Mixed signals may distract you from what is truly important. When sorting it all out, go for the substance instead of the excitement. 
• 
... 


28 Year in 
Claudius's rule 29Red­30 Bit of insincerity 
35Cometo 
380.T. book 39 Don Jose, in "Carmen" 40 Item on a beach head? 43 Circulation increaser 44 Akkadian god of 
heaven 45 Tightfitting 47 Prefix with 
sphere 48 1927 Peace Nobelist Ludwig 51 Famous 
Roosevelt 53 Printer's activity 56 Tucks away CROSSWORD 


ACROSS 
1 "Ciao" 5 Lock part 9Shirt name 
13 "No return" 14 More sound 15 Sibbie 16 Singer Joan 17 Yankee 
Conference locale 
18 "I will play the --, and die in music": Emilia 
19 State Department department 
22 Drinking spot 23 Glazed fabric 24 Part of N.Y. C. 26Assemble 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

42 100% 53 Bring in 46 Grunts 54-Pinto 48 Subdue (Texas 49 Pull strings? county) 50 Florida bird 55 1986 # 1 hit for 52 City acquired by Starship 
Prussia, 1802 59 Place 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
~------­
.. SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, January 29, 1998 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

Villanova gets the best of Irish squads 
Wildcats cool 
red-hot Irish at 
the Joyce Center 
By JOE CAVATO Assisranr Sporrs Editor 
Well. it happened again. .Just when the Notre Dame basketball team looked like it turned the corner. it took anotlwr step backwards. 

.. 
Last night's step baekward eanH' in the form of an R 1-61 loss to the Villanova Wildcats 
in front of a home crowd of cult to eoa.eh." 
over 10,000 fans. The Irish h'ad won two of Afterward Notre Dame's their last three with wins over John MacLeod top 25 foes West summed up the Virginia and disappointing Syracuse. but game. Villanova man­"This is what aged to snap their makes conference Notre Dame five game losing play unpre-streak with some 
dietable and 61 sharp-shooting. 
sometimes fright-Vl'llanova "You have to 
r,ning and frus-givr, Villanova 
trating," he said. 81 credit," MacLeod 
These types of said. "They came 
games are hard to '-------------' and were strug­watch. hard to play and diffi-gling, but' boy did they play well tonight." 
The Wildcats placed five players in double figures with guard Bryan Lynch leading the way with 16 points. In the post Malik Allen and Rafal Bigus caused havoc each 
scoring ten points. 

Villanova lit up the Joyce scoreboard early and often. In the first 12 minutes, the guests scored 33 points, including an 11-0 run to start the game. The squad that ranked 1Oth in field goal per­centage and 11th in three point field goal percentage in the Big East finished shoot­ing 56 from the field and 55 from long range. 
"Defensively, we we're hav­ing all kinds of trouble," MacLeod said. "It seemed like we we're running in quick­san<;!." 
Falling behind in the early going has plagued the Irish all season long, but last night they were not able to catch the Wildcats. 
"I don't know what it is, we just come out in a funk some-
see HOOPS/ page 18 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
The Observer/Brandon Candura 

Even back-to-back three-pointers by Martin lngelsby (24) and Keith Friel in the second half could not close the score. 
Team must play consistently and rely on key scorers to keep on top 
The Villanova men's basket­ball team came into to South Bend last night desperately in search of a victory.
T h e_______ 
W i I d c a t s Betsy Baker needed to Associ are Sports Ediror 
put an _______ urgent halt to a five-game los­ing streak as they prepare to face two of the toughest teams in the conference. Miami and St. John's, next week. 
However, the Notre Dame team needed the win even more, but it did not happen as 
the Irish fell to the Cats 81­

..---------------__,61. 
It wasn't a mat­ter of ending a The Observer/John Daily losing streak or 
Derek Manner (3) helps Pat Garrity to his feet, but neither player building momen­could pick up Notre Dame's game in the loss . 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

Overconfidence ke in Notre Dame loss to 'Nova 
By BILL HART 
Spons Wrirer 
Ove reon fide nee can be a very dan­gerous thing, espe­eially when it comes to collegiate athlet­ics. Unfortunately, that snerned to be the case for the Fighting Irish women's basketball team, which fol­lowed its I 09-60 
rout of Providence with a 70-56 
loss to Villanova at the Pavilion 
on Wednesday night. 

Notre Dame quickly got things on a roll in the first half, .... 
starting the game with a 5-0 
run with help from senior 
Mollie Peirick and freshman 
Huth Riley. Despite an
RESULTS impressive Irish shooting perfor­mance. the Wildcats Notre Dame 
would still find a way to keep in the
56 
ball game. By chal­
Villanova 
lenging the interior defense and ker,ping
70 
perimeter shots 
open, The Wildcats cut the lead to 16-15 with ten minutes left in the half. 
A 9-0 Irish run would give Notre Dame a 24-18 lead, but four crucial Villanova three-pointers in the last two minutes gave the Wildcats a 30-28 lead going into t.he locker room. 

While Notre Dame's offense was better than average in the first half, offensive turnovers continued to plague the team. Despite shooting 44 percent from the field and hitting 4 of 7 from beyond the are, the Irish also committed 12 turnovers, compared to six for the Wildcats. 
In the second half, the Irish got things on a roll through the tenacious efforts of Hiley. With 
17:03 to go in the game, the 6­foot-5 center hit two freethrows tum. In reality, the Irish were (:oming off their best two weeks in years. After knock­ing off two ranked opponents. there appeared no rr,ason why the Irish shouldn't have beaten the then 7-I 0 Cats. Yet the Irish could not main­tain momentum against a mediocre Villanova team. 
The Irish have developed a tendency in the last couple of years to accomplish major upsets, such as last year's overtime victory of the NCAA Hegional finalist Providence, but then losing games like last year's loss to Hutgers, who finished its season 11-16. 
The same is trun of this year. Although Notre Dame 
see INSIGHT I page 18 

Twenty-three key turnovers for the Irish gave the Wildcats the upper see IRISH I page 14 hand all night. 

The Observer/John Daily 
Men's Basketball Hockey at St. John's 
vs. Michigan 

• San Fransico 49ers off-season woes 
Jan. 28, 7:30p.m. see page 17 Women's Basketball 
Jan. 31, 2:30p.m. 

Swimming and Diving 
• Men's dub volleyball 
vs. Seton Hall 

vs. Depauw Jan. 31,2 p.m. 
see page 16Jan. 30, 7:30 p.m. 






