• Did they make the grade? Check out 
• Ready to choose your classes for next semester? 
Thursday

student government's report card and reviews 
Find about the future of DART and read about some

G
rading, 
ofwhat the groups have accomplished this 
students' 'horror stories.'

overnment 
NOVEMBER
year. 

News· 6-7 
Scene ·14-15 
12, 1998 


' ,-I -. 
I ·~... / 
! '-/L The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. SO WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
• STUDENT SENAtE 

Group receives clause update, discusses policy 
ByTIM LOGAN OlllllllittrH1, n1ported that his group A"i'ranl Nrw' Ediror rnal'firmnd thn senate's earlier res­olution asking the Academic Sludl'nt SPJJators !ward rPports Couneil to approvn adding sexual 
W«>dnPsday  orir1ntation  
from  r·om­ to  the legal  
m  i  t  t  P  P  s  elausn.  
rPsParrhing  'AT THE CENTER OF THIS DEBATE  "We  hope  
thP proposPd  IS: How CAN OUR UNIVERSITY  that  the  
non-d isrri m i­nation rlausP  PROVIDE FREEDOM AND EQUALITY  ;\eademic Council  
Hllli'JidlllPnl  WHILE HOLDING CATHOLIC TEACH- will  find  a  
and rPSJlOIISI'  a to  lNG'S AND THE UNIVERSITY'S COMMIT- way to incor­porate sexu­ 
thP hall'-tinw  MENT TO ITS CATHOLIC FAITH?'  al  orienta­ 
r•wnts during  tion into the  
1111•  l'oolhall  non-discrim­ 
gamn  on  Ort.  PAT For  i  n  a  t  i  o n  
:11. as WPII  as  Ulil/11, NON-IJISU/1/HINATION  clause," said  
l'or·usi ng s I' II a  on I P  UJIIIST: f.'OM!I117THH  F o y' noting that six  
IH'havior and  o t  h  n  r  

PI hirs and tlw ol'lirial nom irw11 l'or ;\nwriran Catholic sdwols have r·oordinalor ol' "Thr• Shirt" projnrt. legally protnctnd homosnxual stu­l'at J.'ov. rhair ol' tlw sPnatP's ad dPnts and l'arulty, inrluding 
hoc IHll;-disrriminalion l'iause 
see SENATE I page 4 


A Day of Remembrance ... 

By RUTH SNELL New' \XIrirer 
Tlw Saint Mary's College Showcase ol' CarPPrs attracts students in all classns and majors, providing an opportunity to lnarn morn about nmploynrs. 
"Its main nmphasis is making eon­rwr:tions and getting information to make rarrwr deeisions," said Susan Simnu1rman. assistant director for carn11r development at the Counseling and Camnr lkvelopmnnt Center. 
Thirty-eight organizations, many from tho South Bond-Chicago area. are expectr~d to present information. Spes Unica Hesource and Volunteer Center ISUHVI and Legal Services Program of Northern Indiana, Inc.. whieh are both volunteer organiza­tions. will also be present. National firms will also be represented. includ­ing First Chicago NBD; Merck & Co., lne.; the F131; and Ernst and Young. 
"Businesses primarily come because 
they're interested in our students," Simmerman said. 
The Mcdill Graduate School of Journalism from Northwestern University and the Loyola University Institute for Paralegal Studies will also be represented to provide infor­mation about education after college. 
For the inexperienced, there will be a student information table with a list of potential questions to ask employ-
see CAREER I page 4 
Panel focuses on Inodern huiDan rights 
By SARAH MAGNESS News Wrirer 
!Iuman rights violations arn widP­sprPad and of'tPn happ11n closer to lwnw than people rnaliw. ar:r.ording to a stu­dnnt parwl disr.ussing tlw issur1 at Saint Mary's CoiiPge WPdnesday. 
Katie Cousino, member of tlw Saint Mary's CollaborativP l.nadership Tnam ICOI.TI. said that tlw panni is an nvPnt to increase student awarmwss in prepara­tion for the upeoming !iOth anniversary of t.lw U.N. I>edaration of IIuman Hights. 
Tlw .panel eonsistnd ol' thrnn st.udnnts sharing tlwir hands-on expnrinnrns of seeing tl11• laek of human rights in action. Tlw nvnnt. which took plan~ in Saint Mary's llaggar Parlor, was intPnd­od to inform studPnts ol' thP reality that human rights arr• !wing violat!'d, and this is occurring dosn to honw. Cousino said. 
Julie llodek. a Notn1 Dame sophomorP, opnned tlw discussion talking about lwr surnnwr intornship expnrienees. llodnk worked for the i\nwrican Fednration of Labor-C:ongress of Industrial Organizations 1/\FI.-CIOI. Through her work. llodnk learned the importann1 of em powering wo rkr~ rs who had ber1n denim! in rner1iving higher wages, hotter insurance and more ef'l'icient health earn. 
"Unions bring people togntlwr collnc­tivnly to help turn the tables in an eeono­my that favors tho corporations," said llodek. 
Membr11'S of thr1 panni agreed that when the subject of denying human rights comes up. few people assoeiatn it with the United Statns. But it is a definite reality to Saint Mary's College junior Mary Porter. 
Porter, who lives in Appalachia, 
see RIGHTS I page 4 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The Only Thing I Can Count On 

My family is not as financially secure as most others here on campus. Still, my fami­ly makes do with what we have. B~ing a single parent can't be easy, but my mother has somehow been 
able to provide my C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
sister. my brother Illusrrarions Editor and me with a nice home to keep us warm and dry, good food to put into our bellies, the best possible education avail­able, and the sincere caring that only she can provide. And that doesn't include some of the other perks that she's given us. 
Still, how did we get through all of this? How did my family happen to do so well, a single mother with no bachelor's degree and her three bratty, but very adorable (the oldest one is the cutest; can you guess which one I am?) kiddies? 
As many have said before, family is the key. But my family doesn't end with my mother and siblings. I remember when I was a kid when we would all go to our grandparents' home almost every weekend. We three kids and our cousin would all play around while our grandparents looked after us. Ever now and then, our uncle would take us to Golfland to play at the arcades or to the movie theaters. Our aunts would hook us up with trips to the beach or the park, or sometimes just dinner. If anyone of us needed help, someone in the family could be asked to assist. 
Now we have three new cousins since the four of us have grown up. They arc the kids of the family now, so we also help out tak­ing care of them and playing with them just as other family members played with us. I guess you can say we belong to the Clan Rivera, though I still call us family. 
Family has to support each other. When my Mom, or my aunt or uncle were down, the family helped them up. We would not expect any less. That's the thing that many people have forgotten about the family: love and loyalty. Despite the pressures that soci­ety put on us, we came through. We were together, and that was what kept us alive. We are family. 
I can never forget my family. Even being away from them, I am still closer to them than anyone else here. It's hard being away. It is only with family that I feel truly at home. 
I'm surprised when I see other families in so much hurt because they do not help each other out. Maybe it's the culture my family came from. I'm the first person of the first generation to be born here in the States; all previous generations came from the Philippines. I would have to say I'm lucky for my family. Even when I feel so alone, I can always count on family. ND, for the most part, has just been a thorn in my side. I can't rely on government and society to help me when it can't even properly help itself. As for God, well, why bother with some hidden deity when you got God right in your home. Family is first for me. That's the only thing I can really count on. 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF 
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Laube! Cruz  
Tim Logan  Graphics  
Tom Enright  Crisrin Manary  
Maggy Tinucci  Production  
Sports  Noah Amsradter  
Man Mulherin  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Monica Garza  
Eddie Llull  

The Ohserver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday ~xccpr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhc A~sociated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Thursday, November 12, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Yale faculty member investigated for child pornography 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. 

Former Saybrook Master Antonio Lasaga, who resigned suddenly from his position last Friday, is the subject of a federal child pornography inves­tigation, television station WFSB-TV reported yesterday. 
FBI agents found several porno­graphic pictures of children and two computers that were used to down­load, store and print child pornogra­phy, the station reported, citing unnamed FBI sources. 
The evidence was uncovered in Lasaga's Saybrook rooms during a search executed by the FBI last Friday. 
Top Yale officials confirmed last night that the FBI is investigating Lasaga, but they refused to comment on the scope of the investigation. 
No criminal charges had been filed against Lasaga as of yesterday evening. 
• UNiVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Athletes choose NBA over college Stock holders to sue university 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 

For the past eight years, the lure of million-dollar con­tracts has persuaded more men's basketball players to drop out of college in favor of short-term professional careers. "We can sit around and talk about graduation ratios, but that's not realistic. It's all about money," said Gophers coach Clem Haskins. "You can't pass up an opportunity to make $50 (million) or $60 million dollars. Why would a young man wait until he is 60 or 70 to make a million dollars when be can become a millionaire at 19 or 20?" In 1997, only 41 per­cent of men's basketball players across the country who received scholarships graduated within six years. That is 4 percent less than those who graduated in 1996, according to an NCAA survey released this month. The NCAA reports that the University of Minnesota fared worse than the national average last year. Only one player out of the four who entered the team in 1990-1991 graduated in six years. 
• WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Research improves winter road safety 
MORGANTOWN, W.V. 
Winters wreak havoc on the state's road system, but this year, West Virginia University has found a way to fight back. Dr. Ronald Eck and others from the University's civil engi­neering department recently developed a new procedure for improving the efiiciency of road salt, which is used to keep roads ice-free. According to Eck, the process involves using a brine from natural gas wells in the area. This fluid wets the salt and improves its efficiency. "The natural brine is really just ancient sea water," he said. "It's found in the pores of rocks. When natural gas companies drill, the salt water comes up with the gas. It's highly concentrated at this point, though, much more so than salt water found in the oceans." Using the brine to wet road salt saves companies a great deal of trouble. "To the oil and gas companies, the water's nothing more than a waste product," he said. "It's a natural liquid and is often a nuisance." 

• Smm; BEND WEATHER • NATiONAl WEATHER 5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Thursday, Nov. 12. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~......... 
~,../
t""--.. 
H L 
Thursday c::1 50 28 Friday { ' ~ 43 29 Saturday ~ 49 30 
70s 
FRONTS:
Sunday ~ 42 26 
.....-T" .......................... 
> 
@ t 998 AccuWeather, fnc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
P1essure: ~--__
® © DDCJDDCJ (>~~:%;
Monday ~ 46 26 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy
,_.....,..,,_
_ 
Vta Assoc1aled Press 
Atlanta  62  40  Columbus  53  30  Los Angeles  66  53  
Baltimore 53  34  Dallas  62  47  Miami  84  75  
Q,Q,Qp~Qi)~u  Boise  46  26  Denver  46  24  New York  54  42  
Showers  T-storms Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Boston  55  41  Honolulu  86  72  Phoenix  70  53  
Via Associated Press Graph1csNet  Chicago  49  31  Indianapolis  53  30  St. Louis  54  39  


Lasaga shocked students and col­leagues when he resigned from his position as master last Friday. 
Lasaga could not be reached for comment by telephone or at his Cheshire residence last night. 
His house was occupied by at least 
• BosTON UNIVERSITY 
BOSTON, Mass. 
About 20 former Seragen investors are suing Boston University, claiming that self-dealing transactions locked the biotechnology company under the university's control for years. Thomas Griffin, a lawyer for the former share­holders, said he will !ile a class-action suit this week on behalf of his clients, some of whom previously filed suit sep­arately on similar grounds. "Through a variety of mecha­nisms, BU and we believe principally Mr. Silber -despite their agreement with the attorney general and what they were required to do under their consent agreement-tried to maintain and increase their control over Seragen," Grifiin said. In 1992, Attorney General Scott llarshbarget warned BU not to invest any further in the start-up compa­ny, saying it was too risky. BU agreed, and to reduce its involvement it sold Seragen stock for $12 a share in a pub­lic offering. 
• TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY 
Dorm fire raises safety concerns 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
Following the Nov. 2 fire that destroyed a third-floor room in Dorm 9 and caused the closure of the dorm for the remainder of the semester, questions about the avail­ability and maintenance of fire extinguishers have been raised by students. Andy Wheeler, member of A Battery and a senior biology major. said that during the fire he went to four different fire-extinguisher eases in the dorm before he found an extinguisher. James Hainer, safety coordinator for the Environmental Health and Safety Department, said lire extinguishers are typically kept in resident adviser and graduate hall director rooms in Residence Life dorms and in commanding ol1iccr rooms in Corps dorms. Ron Sasse, director of Hesidence Life, said the reason fire extinguishers arc kept in HA rooms is to prevent students from using extinguishers when there is not a fire. 
one individual.  
Lights  were  on,  curtains  were  
drawn,  and  the  windows  were  
papered over.  

University officials refused to com­ment on when they first learned of the FBI investigation. 
Interim Saybrook Master Harry Adams has said President Richard Levin telephoned him Thursday and asked him to fill the post. 
Yale College Dean Hichard Brodhead told an assembly of Saybrook students on Friday that Lasaga had stepped down "for per­sonal reasons." 
"We trust your maturity," he addcd. 
University officials continued to decline to confirm the investigation early this week, but the University released a statement late yesterday night confirming that Lasaga is under investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office. 


Thursday, November 12, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
Death penalty foru01 will feature speakers, video 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Wrircr 
Arnrwsly International and ND/SMC Hight to Life will sponsor an open dnath penalty forum today that includns spnak1~rs. video interviews of death row inmatns and a pan(1] diseussion. 
Tho forum, which will take place in 102 DeBartolo from !i-IJ::W p.m., will focus on ideas ranging from rPeondliali()n to human rights. 
"The ... death pnnalty is not just a statistic used in ordnr to get re-elncted but affects real people, in particular the marginalized of soeiety including r'ltc'ial minorities and tho poorer classes who gerwr· ally eannot afford the best representation,·• said Derek VanDaniker, a sophomore who has helped to organize the nvont. 
Garth Mnintjes, a law professor and associate dirnctor of the Notre Dame Law School's center for Civil and Human Hights, will opt~n the forum. He will hn followed by Bovorly Millnr, whoso work through the group Love over Vengeance has made her an aetivn opponent o the death penally. VanDaniker met Millnr at a vigil hnld for a death row execution in Michigan City. · 
The forum's planners also expect Miller to show intnrviews with death row inmates, allowing those in attendance to see the personal side to prisoners. 
Bill Pclke and Jennifer Jones of Murder Families for lhH~oru~iliation will also discuss how they havC1 confronted justice in light of their opposition to tho death Jmnalty. 
"Both have had a family member· murdered and instnad of seeking revongo they are going around tho 1:ountry speaking about the need for reconcilia­tion, sonwthing our country needs desperatf1ly." said VanDaniker. 
The forum will include a panel discussion with Father .Jot• Boss, chaplain of the Michigan City prison, and two Notro Damn students who have eor· responded with death row inmates in Florida and Indiana. 
Put money 
in your pocket today 
and an 8,000-ton nuclear sub in your hands after graduation. 
Earn $1,600 a month-up to $42,000-during your junior and senior years of college through the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program. After graduation. you can feel the excitement of controlling the world's most sophisticated nuclear equipment, like an 8,000-ton submarine or a high-powered aircraft carrier. As a highly-respected officer, you'll be in a leadership position right out of school­status you'd have to wait years to achieve in another job. This unmatched experience and superior training will put you in high demand for top engineering positions in the highly-competitive civilian market, too. 
To qualify for up to $12,000: 
• Be a United States citizen. 

• Successfully complete your sophomore year 
of college, majoring in either engineering, math, physics or chemistry with a minimum 3.0 GPA. 
• Complete one year of calculus and calculus­based physics. 
E-mail indyleads@aol.som www.navyjobs.com 
NAVY 

-~ LET THE JOURNEY BEGIN. 
Navy Reps on Campus -Nov 4 -Fitzpatrick Hall 
• fACUlTY AWARO 
Collins wins science fellowship 
Special to The Observer 
Frank Collins, George and Winifred Clark Professor of Biological Seiences, has been elected a fellow of the Ameriean Association.--------., for the Advancement of Scinnce IAAAS]. 
AAAS fel­lows are nler.tnd on tho merit of thnir " e f f o r t s Collins toward advancing sr.ionce or fostering applications that are deemed sei­entifically or socially distin­guished." 
New follows will be officially rneognized during the 1999 MAS 
Burrell gets position as director of University progra01 in Jerusale01 
Special to The Observer 
rather David Burrell. llesburgh Professor· in the College of Arts and Letters at Notre Dame, has been appointed director of tho University's under­graduate program in Jerusalem. 
Father Burrnll will assume responsibility for the program in .January. Ten students have signed up for the spring semester program, which includes courses at the University's own Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies in Tantur, as well as Bothlnhem University, Hebrew University, and the Hatisbonne Center in Jerusalem. The stu­dents will live at Tantar, located just inside Jerusalem. 
Father Burrell has taught philosophy and theol­ogy at Notre Dame since 1964 and was chairman annual mBcting in AnahBim, Calif., in .January. 
Collins joinBd the Notre Dame faculty in 1997 after a 13-year career at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, where he was chief of the Vector Genetics section of the Division of Parasitic Dis11ases. Collins' research focused on developing new strategies for controlling human diseases, espe­cially those transmitted by mos­quitoes. 
His research has been pub­lished in a number of periodicals, including Science, Nature, 
Science  and  Medicine,  and  
Genetics.  
Recently,  Collins  and  his  

research team developed a tech­nique for introducing DNA into the genome of the mosquito 
Researchers: kids should get flu shot 
Associated Press 
DENVEH 
Wondering why you're getting those aches, fevers. chills? Take a closer look at those little peo­ple you come in contact with. 
Medical researchers recom­mend that schoolchildren across tho nation get annual !lu shots to hnlp control tlw virus' rampant spread this wintnr. 
In a new study to bn prnsont­ed today at the annual inl'!1r.­tious diseases rnn11ting in Denver. resnarchnrs said 45 percent or all schoolchildrnn gnt the llu, oftnn passing it along to adult family members and day­earn providnrs. 
SPRING BREAK'99 
of the Univeristy's theology departmnnt from 1971-80. lie served as rector of thn Eeunwnieal Institute at Tantar from I980-81 and SJWnt thn following year as visiting professor at thn llobrow University in Jerusalem. lie has henn a visiting seholar at Chicago Divinity School and tlw Perkins School of Theology and has taught at tlw National Major Seminary of Bangladosh and at Prinr.eton Theological Snminary. 
lin has written many artir.lns and reviows for scholarly journals and is the author or editor of several books, including "Analogy and Philosophical Languago," Exereises in Heligious Understanding," "Aquinas: God in Action," "Knowing the Unknowable God: lbn-Sina, Maimonides, Aquinas," "Freedom and Croation in Three Traditions," and "Voicos From .IPrusalem." 
Aedes Aegypti. Tlwir goal is to genetically alter tho capacity of wild populations of this mosquito· to transmit pathogens lik11 yellow fever and d11ngue virus. According to Collins, dnngue infects two billion people world­wide each year and yellow fever epidemics have re-emerged in Africa and South Anwrica. 
Collins earned his hadwlor's degree in biology from .Johns Hopkins Univ11rsity. H11 holds a mastnrs degree in English liwra­ture from tlw University of East Anglia in Norwich, J(ngland, and a doctorate in entomology form the llnivnrsity of California at Davis. 
Foundod in 1848. AMS repre­S(mts tho world's largest federa­tion of scientists and has morn than 144,000 members. 


Sincn many adults an~n 't vac­cinat!ld nitlwr, the llu sprnads quickly through thn gnnnral population. That nwans lots of sick days, lost work hours and h~ss wagns. 
Vaeeinating kids would rnducn the flu's impact on adults' prod uetivi ty wh i~~~ potentially boosting studnnts' pnrformanen by rndudng sir.k days, said rnsnarchnrs at Virginia Commonwnalth Uniwrsity in Hid11nond. 
"Parents who would miss work ir tlwir ehildrnn got tlw llu should talk to their IH~diatri­eians about getting thn vaccirw right now," llr. Mary Nettlnman. lead author of thn study, said Wndnesday. 
Tlw rneornmnndation, which has been rnpnatnd by an inernasing numbnr of scientists and physidans this rail. l'npudi­atns eonvnntional wisdom in tlw rnmlieal t·.ornmunity. 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
Georgetown University, the University of San Diego and S_eattle University. 
Foy noted that there are dif­ferent ways of granting this protection. and that some legal experts he spoke with said the best way to do this may not be through a straight addition to the existing non­discrimination clause, but rather through a legally bind­ing statement of acceptance which balances the University's Catholic nature with the need to protect homo­sexual rights. 
"At the center of this debate is: how can our University pro­vide freedom and equality while holding Catholic teach­ings and the University's com­mitment to its Catholic faith," he said. 

Foy's committee formed after the Oct. 8 Council deci­sion to delay voting on the proposed clause amendment. Foy said he would ask Frank Law, the Student Union acade­mic delegate and a member of the Academic Council, if the Council would release a report detailing the different opinions it considered at the meeting. 
The Residence Life Committee presented a state­ment on student behavior at the most recent home football game, asking senators to urge safety at the next game on Nov. 21. 
"The Hesidence Life Committee appeals to the stu­dent body to consider safety issues during half-time," reads the letter, which noted that several people were injured at last weekend's game. It urges senators to discuss these issues with students in their residence halls. 
Wednesday's Senate meeting also took a step toward ending last week's controversy over the new "The Shirt" coordina­tor when the Financial Management Board unani­mously approved the nomina­tion of Garett Skiba. 
Skiba was rejected last week because of concern that the nominating process had not been open to all applicants. The Financial Management Board reviewed both Skiba's application and that of Michael Seeley, a junior who addressed the senate on the matter last week, and selected Skiba. The senate must wait one week before approving the nomination, but a preliminary vote indicated an easy win for Skiba. 
Jason Linster, chair of the senate Oversight committee. spoke about what he called a rash of unprofessional behav­ior in recent meetings, includ­ing low attendance, lack of respect in debate and unethi­cal activity in voting. 
"You can't just "1,\:'alk out in the middle of a vote, that's very, very unethical," said Linster. 
lie referred to an incident last week when, during a close vote, several senators left the room in an apparent attempt to bring the number of sena­tors in attendance below that which is required to be pr<~­sent for a vote to bo taken. 

lie also discussed atten­dance at meetings, both the general meetings and the com­mittee gatherings at which resolutions arc debated and researched. 
"Attendance at committee meetings is atrocious," said Linster. "It is our duty to dedi­cate ourselves to the students who elected us; an important part of this is attendance." 
Linster proposed that tho s<~nate adopt a rule which would punish senators who have unexcused absences at more than three general meet­ings and three committee meetings. There is currently a clause in the student union constitution stating that atten­dance at all senate meetings is mandatory for student sena­tors, but it is largely disn~­garded. 
Rights 
continued from page 1 
described the numerous viola­tions of human rights oeeur­ring in tlw area. Among the most detrinwntal to the com­munity an~ ones pertaining to education and work. 
"Education is lacking and this creates a brick wall for students," said Porter. "Tiw schools do not prepare the students well enough and par­ents cannot afford to send their children far away." 
The job market is dominated by coal companies, according to Porter, and even though there are laws to protect the workers, it is still a dangerous occupation. Porter said that the lack of jobs prevents fami­lies from being able to break a 
Career 
continued from page I 
ers and businesses, said Simmerman. This will allow students to have some idea of the type of information they can receive, as well as the type of questions employers are prepared to answer. 
Simmerman also empha­sized that even though stu­dents may be looking for jobs outside the Chieago area, the showcase is "still good experi­ence to ask questions, espe­cially because [students) may be under less pressure" and are able to be more open. 
SCOHE, an organization of retired business executives, 

cycle of poverty and that the value of land is so low that no one can afford to leave. 
Poverty is an issue that pre­sented itself to Saint Mary's senior Erin Emig, who spent time in El Salvador last year. 
"I was there to learn and talk to the people of their experiences during civil war there," said Emig. 
Interacting with people who have to r·etrieve fresh water from a creek at two in the morning and seeing sweat­shops in action showed Emig just how grateful she needed to be for her opportunities. 
"We are connected globally," said Emig. "Every action is important, ineluding research­ing where our clothes eome from." 
Members of the panel con­cluded that once people acknowledge the acts defying 
themselves to potential employers," Simmerman said. 
Because so many businesses will be available, the Showcase of Careers also offers the opportunity to make connections for summer employment, internships and full-time employment, accord­ing to Simmerman. Seniors can make employment connec­tions, Juniors get internship connections and Sophomores and First-Years obtain infor­mation and career direction. 
The showcase will be held from 3-5 p.m. today in the Reignbeaux Lounge of LeMans Hall. It is sponsored by the Board of Governance and the Counseling and Career Development Center. 
will be at the showcase to edu-~~ifii~~~~~~i~{
cate students about entrepre­neurship and the skills essen­tial to making it in the busi­ness world today. 

"[Students! will be able to k;!~iPfflj find good tips to help present
. 
. Heart
Amencan .~ Association,.,.. 
Fig/Jtmg Ht>ill! DiSf<JOO and Stroke 
human rights, all of us are responsible for doing some­thing to help cha.nge the situa­tion. 
"We need to move away from being greed-driven to become responsible con­sumers," said Hodek. "And we need to recognize our power collectively." 
Economic reform is neees­sary, according to Porter, while Emig stressed the need for letting go of individualistic ideals. 
Members of last night's panel believe in the truth of a statement by Dalai Lama: "To me H is quite elear that how­ever important I may feel I am, I am just one individual while others are infinite in number and importance." 
The panel was sponsored by the Iluman Rights COLT and the Student Academic Council. 


"We are all connected globally. Every action is important, including researching ere our clothes come from," said Erin Emig, who spent part of last year in El Salvador, at yesterday's human rights panel. 
ews? 1-5323 
not Aristotle, Plato, or Cicero. ­the Arab philosopher, Ibn Kh 
(14th century) 
Read him in the original! 
©1997, Arnerican Heart Association 

--------~----------~~---.--~..~--------------------------'i 




Thursday. November 12, 1998 COMI'IU:D FROM THE 0HSFRVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• Dairy employee falls to his death 
ZUMBI!OT/\. Minn. 

A rhPI'SI' l'arlory l'arPs criminal rhargns in tlw I')');) dPath ol' an Pill ploy<'<' who i'PII into a grind!'r whil!' rutting blocks ol' rlwPsP and i'PPding it into tlw marhitw. Mid-;\nwril'a llairvnwn lnr.. whirh has sinr<' bnromn !>airy Farriwrs ol' ,\nwrka lnr.. was rhargnd with mun!Pr. manslaughtPr and willl'ul violation or l'lllployPr duty in tlw arridPnt that kiiiPd .II'ITn•y Stt'i'I'Pnhagl'n, :n. Tlw rompany was arrusPd ol' knowingly ITI•ating and maintain­ing dangPI'IIliS working ronditions. It r.ould bP l'inl'd $SO.OOO. l'ros!'I'Utors said that Stl'll'l'nhag!'n rPII rrom a gr!'asy paiiPt aifcl that tiH• grind1•r did not haw a prop1•r shiPid to protPI'I \Vorkl'rs. l>oug Thomson. an altornPy l'or tlw plant. had no •·omnwnt on tlw allnga­tions. 
Pseudo-vampire arrested in murders 
SAN Fll,\NCISCO 

.\l't1•r IH•aring complaints that tlwy \\'Prl'td n•sjHitHiing aggrPssivl'ly !'Jlllllgh to a s1•riPs or atta!'ks 1111 honH•I1•ss p!'opl!', policl' ili'I'!'Stl'd a lit an \\ ho r!'porll'dly l'onsitkrs himsPII' a vam­pin• \\ith a bloody knii'P in his porkPL Tlw lat­I'St slashing virtim was l'ound staggnring rwar (:hi flat own on Tul'sdav. slwrtlv bdorP Joshua lludigl'r. ~I. was ar;·pstPd .. l'oli('(• b1~liPvn lludig1·r I'll!. tlw throats ol' l'mrr honwlnss pPo­pll'. killi11g 1111!', owr th1• last lhri'P wnl'ks. i\ polil'l' soun·" told !-:CBS Hadio that Hudigl't' thinks lw is a vampin·. Arrording to court n·rords. lludig1•r is a Sl'hizoplm•nir who twir.n was lwspilalill'd l'or nwntal probll'ms and has a history or unprovokPd attarks on rwopll'. Ill' rl'flill'tl'dly told i11VPstigators that lw is a vam­pir<' who survivPd by surking his vir:tims' blood. was 2.000 wars old. had livnd all owr tlw world and has.spPrial psyrhir. pownrs. 
Ventura may appear in Sundance film festival 
MINNEAPOLIS 

(;ov.-PIPrt .l<~SS!' "Thn Body" VPntura shot a short lilm last spring that may pop up at thn Sundanr1~ Film Fnstival soon artnr hn tak<~s ol'lkn. TIH• rornwr prorPssional wrnstlnr plays a shady marriagP rounsPior nanwd Buddy {Otw-i\rml Sanrlwz in tlw low-budgPt "20/20 Vision." In on!' Sl'l'nl'. Buddy slaps a woman who has 1'111111' to him ror I'OllllSPiing. Tlw lilm­mak<'r. Christoplwr Nnwlwrry. said "Tiw llodv" had onP cotH'Prn wlwn lw was hin•d . 
• UI\!ITEO NATIONS 
Baghdad refuses U.N. demands 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 

Tlw U.N. SI'I'Urity Council unanimously demanded Thursday that Iraq resume coo p~~ rati o n w i t h U . N . wPapons inspe<~tors imme­diatnly. l~aghdad has alrnady announcnd it won't comply. 
Tlw 15-nwmbnr 1~oun1~il madn no nxplicit thrnats to usn forcn. showing it rPmains dividod on what to do ir Baghdad rnfusns to olwv. 
Th1~ Unitl'd Statns and Britain say thny alrnady haw authorization to takn military action against Iraq rrom prnvious council rnso­lut.ions. 
In Washington. State 
I> I' pa r t. nw n t s po kn s m an .Janws 1'. Bubin said llw rns­olution's wording "rurthnr ronlirms our vinw that this and prnvious rnsolut.ions do authorizl' tlw usn or military rorrP ir twcnssary." 
But that vil'w is rejected bv ot.lwr council nwmbnrs. 
·llussian Ambassador SPrgPy l.avrov warrwd that any attempt to use f'orr.e would hav<~ "highly unprn­dirtabln and dangerous con­sPquPnr.es" f'or Midnast peace and f'uturn U.N. nrrorts to monitor Baghdad's weapons pro­grams. 
"Tiw way to overcome this nnw crisis lins. we think. nxrlusivcly in political and diplomatic crrorts." he said. 
Thn resolution didn't include a timetable ror lift­ing crippling f1conomic sanctions. which Iraq has demanded as the prke for rnwrsing its d11cision to cut ol'f all dealings with thn inspectors. 
Tlw resolution puts into intt•rnational law thl' roun-l'.il's statnmont Saturday that conckmnnd Iraq's deei­sion to halt cooperation with inspectors as a "l'la­grant violation" of U.N. demands. 

Acting U.S. Ambassador Peter Burleigh noted that President Clinton has "11mphasized that all options arc on the table and the United States has tho authority to act." 
"Iraq should recognize the gravity or the situation it has created." Burleigh said. 
British Ambassador .Jeremy Grccnstoek said the coundl's authority to use force "may be revived if it decides that there has been a sul'fir.iPnt.ly serious breach or the conditions laid down by the coundl for the cease-lire" that PtHkd tho I'Prsian Gulf War in I')') I. 
In the resolution. 1:ouncil members real'l'irnwd tlwir readiness to hold "a com­prehnnsivn rPview" or Iraq's compliance, whir.h could load to the lil'ting of an oil embargo and other trade restrietions ir U.N. inspec­tors declarn Iraq has dis­armed. But this offer is con­tingent on Iraq resuming 
coop1~ration. 
French Ambassador Alain Oejammet, whose country has bnen sympathetic to lift­ing sanr.tions. said the unanimous vote demon­strated the council's "unity in the far.o of an Iraqi deci­sion which was immediatoly dcscri bed as irrational and 
unacc~eptabk" 
Tlw counril had agrPI'd to conduct tht• ri'Vii'W in Sl'ptmnbnr. in an at.tnmpt to gnt Baghdad to allow U.N. Wl'apons inspnrtors to rnsumn spot inspnrtions. which it bannnd on August 5. 
But Iraq reactnd angrily wlwn tho eouncil sent a lnt­ter to U.N. Seerntary­General Kol'i Annan last Friday with the broad out­lines of a rnview that didn't explicitly mention thn possi­bility of easing or lifting sanctions. 
Blaming the Amerkans ror cutting all rnfnrnncns to nnding sanctions. Baghdad on Saturday bamwd inspec­tors from monitoring provi­ously snarrhed racilitins. lnaving tlwm with littiP to 


.. 111." said. 'Til is isn't going to bn shown any­
• JERUSALEM
wll!'rl' in tlw rwxt r1•w months. is it'?"' N1•wlwrrv said. NPwlwrrv submittPd tlw film to Sund:llll'l' and shou(d J'ind out in Parlv I>Prnmlwr wlwtlwr it madn t.lw rut ror tlw ros­
Israel ratifies peace agreement
tival. which lwgins in mid-January. Ventura takl's ollicn .lanuary 4. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS weeks of delay, caused in part by a sui­Bank if 1\ralilt made good on a threat dde-bombing by Islamic militants at a to unHaterally dedare Palestinian 

Israel's government narrowly rati­.ltlrusalem market that injured 21 statehood in May. ticd the land-for-peace agreement with Israelis. Nntanyahu's second condition tho Palestinians yesterday, setting the Secretary of State Madeleine entailed bringing each stage of the
Dow 
AMEX: 
stage l(>r withdrawal from West Bank Albright called the vote an important phased pullback to the Cabinet ror sep­66.~.1!1 territory and an expansion of step in the peace process. arate approval ovnr tho nnxt three
JONES 
-1.26 

Palestinian autonomy. The Palestinians welcomed ratifica­months, a move that would likelv stall Nasdaq:
8823.82 Prodded by the United States. Prime tion with caution, but dismissed the any handover. MinistHrs will be ·asknd
11!62.115 

0 
-'\ ) I Minister Benjamin Netanyahu pushed conditions as "violations." to d11tnrmine whether the Palestinians NYSE: the deal through the Cabinet with far Jewish settlers, some of whom will have met their security obligations 
553.36 less support than he anticipatod. To find themselves in isolated West Bank under the accord. 
-·1.06 soeure the votes of hard-liners opposed areas after the withdrawal, lashed out He also domanded that the Palestine S&P 500: 
to any deal offering land-for-peace, he at the government for giving up land National Council hold a formal vote by
1120.97 

Composite also attached conditions that may pro­that settlers consider to be their bibli­mid-December to revoke clauses in the
-7.2'1 
Volume: 

vokn a new crisis. cal birth right. Palestine Liberation Organization
-40.16 679,10(),()()() 
Eight of 17 ministers voted in favor. "For· Sale: State of Israel. a give­founding char·ter that r.all for Israel's VOLUME LEADERS live ministers abstained and four voted away," read a large banner at a destruction. 
''fl~ll'~~l' I U'bt'H sli-~1~ I'UU 1· against the deal struck bntween protest rally where over 10.000 set­In a fomth stipulation. N11tanyahu lm L11h'llollllllll'lll lOX +MH1J +~()()C) .:!4 ~ 
~ S'IM~Iil'" 

NPtanyahu and Palestinian leader tlers and their supporters gathered in said that in an additional pullback to
lllll'i('l•fp IN'((" +t•2H it'! 12~0 HU M7~ lkff('tlillpllh.'l 1>1:11. +.:'ll +I t'I.:!~O 7t'n7~ 
Vasser Arafat at the Wye summit in Tel Aviv as the Cabinet met. which Israel committrd itself IILst yPar.
('llllljlollj{\llllpUil'l 1'1'1) +.l'.W +I r,~~~~ 14 ~ K-1l'l hlli.ll~llllllloll Krrl ....... ~! \ +'J t.X7~ .l2.fl2~ I )r.llil' (·,~I' lift('[ +td~ +.:' 011(11) l,l.\ 
Maryland. Thtl plan calls for lsranl to Saying that land was "precious and the Palestinians would rPceive no more 
\IM..ftN•II("••J' MSFr UHIJ I fNIOO Ill IW•.'!~ 
withdraw it<> troops from 13 percent of important," Netanyahu attached condi­than one percent of the West Bank.
l\llll.'ln~o Xt'IT -~.:'I -2 (110~ -IK.9\7~ ('l'o\.11\\.,h.'lll\ C\CO -1411 .()IJ.\75 {,(J()(,,!~ 
the West Ban in exchange t(Jr security tions to bo met before he rolinquishod "Tho conditions are part of gamo
('III).!Mjp l'CI -!.'i'J -I 12~0 42 H.'i 
guarantees. control. saying Israel reserved the between Mr. Netanyahu and his right­Approval of the deal came after right to annex large areas of the West wing ministers." he said. 

= -0 
page 6 Thursday, November 12, 1998
The Observer • GRADING THE GOVERNMENT 
The Observer looks at how well this year·s campus government leaders have lived up to their campaign promises and how

rading 

faithfully other groups have worked toward serving the Notre Dame and Saint Mary·s communities. 

overn t 
Grades and reviews are compiled by student government 


Cesaro Selak 
'I'M PROUD OF EVERYTHING WE'VE DONE•••• WE'RE ALL WORKING TOWARDS ••• MAKING THIS UNIVERSITY A BETTER PLACE FOR ITS STUDENTS.' 
ANDREA SELAK STU!Jio"'NT BODY VICE PRESIDENT 

PresfVP take pride in accomplishments 
By TIM LOGAN 
Assistant News Editor 
Running on a platform of "putting students first," student body president Peter Cesaro and vice president Andrea Selak have focused on improving stu­dent services and following through on their campaign promises in a work­manlike manner during the first half of their term. 
Since taking office in April, the pair have a range of accomplishments to their name, including the expansion of SafeHide to Thursday nights, increasing meal plan options for ofl'-campus stu­dents and reducing student govern­ment expensPs in the face of a $66,000 budget deficit. 
''I'm proud of everything we've done," said Selak. "We've been able to fulfill our campaign promises. We all work towards a common goal [in stu­dent government] -making this uni­versity a better place for its students." 
However, this focus on the nuts and bolts issues of student services has, at times, taken the pair away from debates on major campus issues such as the addition of sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause and the commencement speaker selection process. 
Compared to past administrations, Cesaro and Selak have been relatively quiet on divisive issues such as these, which have been debated at length by the CLC and Student Senate. The pair did send a letter which was read at an October rally in support of amending the non-discrimination clause, but they have not been particularly active in voicing a student government position on these issues to the administration. 
Still, the duo has helped students deal with the administration in other ways. Through their campaign to revive hall judicial councils and the student gov­ernment .Judicial Board, Cesaro and Selak are working to provide students under disciplinary review with infor­mation about their rights, and strengthen the role of hall governments in deciding disciplinary cases. 
"llall Judicial Boards can serve a useful purpose in terms of keeping things within the halls that can be han­dled in the halls," said Cesaro, noting that cases which are sent to the oflice of Residence Life often incur greater punishments for students involved. 
The Office of the President has also appointed a parking representative to aid students in the process of appealing their parking tickets. 
OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT 
NOTRE DAME 

Making the grade 


• 
The expansion of SafeRide to Thursday nights, and their work for better faculty­student relations and dining hall reform demonstrate Cesaro andSelak's com~ mittment to fulfillii1g campaign promises. 

• 
Their efficient m¢thods l)f hand,lipg the debt left behind by previous student gov, ernment administrations have shown con­siderable creativity and determination. 


@i,::·: ·. 

• Their apparent reluctance to take a leadership position on issues of campus debate leaves questions about theirlong­term vision for the University. 
The two have tried to increase stu­dent involvPment on administration committees, according to Selak. She points to their attempts to place stu­dents on committees considering the renovations of 1-Iesburgh Library and reallocation of campus social space. 
It has not all been smooth sailing thus far on the second floor of LaFortune, however, as there have been several challenges which the Cesaro/Selak administration has encountered. 
One major problem which the admin­istration has dealt with this semester was last year's Student Union budget deficit of $66,000. Of those losses, $11,740 were incurred by the previous Office of the President. 
When the deficit was discovered and announced in September, Cesaro pledged to cut $8,000 from his budget in an effort to help solve the problem. Spending has been reduced through more attention to detail, cutting back on unnecessary spending on items ­like food -and increased cooperation between student government organiza­tions on event sponsorship, according to Cesaro. 
"We were strapped from the begin­ning. We've had to utilize more creative ideas," he said. "We've still utilized our resources to fulfill our campaign promises." 
Another campaign promise of the Cesaro/Selak ticket was to work and get a student representative on the Board of Trustees. Little progress has been made on this front so far, but, accord­ing to Cesaro, he has begun talking with the chair of the Board's Student Affairs Committee about the possibility of such an addition. 
The Cesaro/Selak administration's plans for the future include race and diversity awareness forums, following up Academic Pride Week with contin­ued work on student-faculty relations and the completion of an on-line book­selling service which would serve as an alternative to the Hammes Notre Dame bookstore. 
One initiative they are currently working on is dorm non-discrimination clauses, which individuals can sign, pledging not to discriminate against fel­low students on the basis of race, gen­der, religion, sexual orientation or dis­ability. 
The clauses would be signed on a dorm-by-dorm basis, according to Selak, and would serve as a statement of non-discrimination among partici­pants. 

Siefert Midden 
'PRIDE DAY WAS ONE OF THE GOALS WE ACCOM­PLISHED. IT'S A GREAT WAY TO CELEBRATE SAINT MARY'S.' 
NANCY Ml/JDEN STUDENT BODY VICH PRHSIIJENT 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
While running for stud1mt body president and vice president last season, Sarah Siefert and Nancy Midden said tlwir cam­paign promises were not empty. 
For the most part, they have made good on their vows of assisting in efforts to boost enrollment, creating technological aware­ness, strengthening alumnae ties and increasing support for athletics. 
The semester has also been marked with an abundance of Saint Mary's spirit and the move to propose the building of a stu­dent centPr. 
Increasing Admissions 
The Board of Governance IBOG I has worked diligently in efforts to increase enrollment, an idea thought too lofty by some during their campaign last year. 
"This has come together fabulously," Siefert said. "So far, it's been very success­ful." 
In order to assist in increasing student enrollment, the position of admissions com­missioner was created. Currently, Emily Koelsch is the liaison between the Volunteers in Support of Admissions IVISAl, BOG and the admissions ollice. 
"Our involvement has been to bring all three together to create the best program," Siefert said. 
After two successful Fall Days on Campus. one of which hosted more than 1,000 students and parents, their efforts seem to be paying off. 
BOG members were responsible for recruiting and serving as tour guides. "We actually had more volunteers show up than what we needed," Siefert said. 
In addition, student government has pro­vided the admissions office with names of club contacts for prospective students. 
Technology 
After the campus was technologically revamped, Siefert and Midden stressed the need for awareness of these improve­ments. 
The plans included a newsletter to update students about access sites, incor­porating technology into the classroom and creating a Student Government Association [SGAJ web site. 
They have also been careful to keep close ties with Joel Cooper, director of information technology, in order to stay up to date on further advancements, such as expansion of computer access in tho library basement. 
"It's moving right along," Siefert said. ".Joel Cooper [and information technology] is taking in charge of it, so now it's kind of 
Making the 
A-
grade 
• Their successful attempts in aiding efforts to increast~ enrollment and in 
keeping students updated on campus technology improvements reinforce their campaign messagP.. 
• 
Through the Student Academic Council, the government acheived two of its two major goals: establishing Saint Mary's Pride Day and creating a Major-of-the­Week program. 

• 
Th:'administration's efforts to boost attendance at Saint Mary's sporting events have had little impact. 


Siefert/Midden work on variety of issues 
out of our realm." Other plans are slowly becoming reali­ties. 
The SGA web site has been taking shapo throughout the semestPr. Among oth<~r fmt­turcs. the site ineludes minutes from the most recent meeting and e-mail addrnsses and links to deans and clubs. 
Thn major problem is a lack of publicity for the site, whic:h is still in the making and projected to be fully upgraded by the beginning of m~xt semester. 

"We didn't really want to publicize it until it was all completed," Siefert said. "It takes a long time ... and thorn's always improvements to be made." 
Alumnae Connections 

Aiming to strengthen ties between stu­dents. especially seniors, and recent alum­nae, Sief<1rt and Midden outli1md plans to organize dinnnrs, me<~tings and a job-shad­owing program. llowever, these goals were alwady being served by other campus events and organizations. 
"We weren't aware of it at the time, but many of these goals were already being ful­fillod," Siefert said, citing a function called Gracn Under l'ressun~. where alumnao share tips on business tactics and etiquett<~. 
Siefert not<1d that 1wxt senwster more activitins with the Sisters of the I loly Cross, "our strongest alumnae group," will be ofl'en1d. 
But at this point. little ell'ort has bnen put into fulfilling this goal. 
Athletic Recognition 
Plans of establishing a student-athlete club were abandoned in order to ereatn a more inclusive spirit dub which has yet to be developed, Siefert said. 
Posters advertising home events, espn­cially highlighting final home games, have been the main venue of attempting to increase the Belles' fan base. 

Barbecues at two events were other efforts noted as methods to increase the audience numbers. 
These efforts, however, have not dramat­ically increased the number of fans at games. 
Student Activities Council 
In addition, SAC has been successful in its campaign promises of a sueeessful Saint Mary's Pride Uay and establishing a Major­of-the-Week program. 
Pride Day was one of the major evenl'> on campus this semester and served as the first of what Siefert and Midden hope is a long-standing tradition. 
"Pride Day was one of the goals we accomplished," Midden said. "It was a great way to celebrate Saint Mary's." 
beat writers and the news and Saint Mary's editors. 
SAINT MARY'S 

~.---~-----·-·-----~----~-­
Thursday, November 12,_,_:_19:_::9_:_:8__~~~-~~~T~h~e~O~b~se~r~ve~r_•_G~RA~::::D~I~N_:_G~T..:::.__::_H~E=--G:::::....::O::_VE.:.....::::.:_R:::N_:_:_:M~E=N-_:__T-=----;:==============::::P::::a::ge=,7 
JUDICIAL BOARDS

Meeting the Issues 
STUDENT SENATE 
Body has up and down term 
By TIM LOGAN 
A...\i\tam NL""'' Editor 
TIH• StudPnt Sl'nat.n has grapplnd with a rangl' of issuPs this tonn, and whill' Llw body has at linws wnatlwrnd nitirism for its handling of t.lwso mat­t.Prs, sPvnral sonat.ors say llwir group has don1• a n~asonahly good job sinl'.l) taking oflirl' in i\pril. 
"Wp'yp !JPI'Il wl'll-liwus<'d and wnll­organiznd in confronting major issul's," said Carroll smmtor Pat Foy. "Wp'vp dorw a lot of good things, but wn ran do bPttnr." 
By dl'aling with llw addition of SI'XU­al oril'nlation to tlw Univl'rsity's non­discrimination claus•~. and tlw rom­nH'JH'I'Illl'lll S()('akm· sPII'dion pr()(:oss and wl'lroming fornwr sl'nator Bill Brad!Py to rampus, tlw sPnall) has dl'fVPd into divisiVP l'alllJlUS iSSUI'S. 
But taking on tough issuos has a flip sidP. SPrmtors havP n)rdvml tlw most criticism liw lack of n)snan:h on thl'sn isstws and for snl'ming to disrngard tlw opinions of non-smmtors. 
Tlu• sPnat•~ addn)ssnd llw non-dis­rrimination claus!' Parlil'r this tnrm, voting to PmlorsP tlw addition of soxu­al oriPntation to tlw Univorsity's datrsP. i\t liH• timP of lhl' mnnting ­days lwlim• llw Univnrsity's i\cadmnie Cowrril ronsidPrnd tlw issw) -somt) nwmiH•rs raiiPd for 11101'1) rl'sl'arrh, hut tlwy WPI'I) outvotnd. 
Orw WI'Pk latl'r, alkr tlw i\cadmnie C:ounl'il postporwd il'> dncision in ordt)r 
S
tudPnt Sl'natP and cu: arP th1• main forums for sttu!Pnt fpacfprs to dPIJat«' rampus issuPs. llw SPIHttP I right) con­tains a n·pn·sPntativn from Parh n•sidi'IH'I' hall and is n•sponsihiP for voiring stud1•nt govPrn­1111'111 opinion on •·arnpus isstrPS and for ovPrsight of 1111' Studt·nl Union. Tlw body i-; in its SI'CIIIHI tl'rlll sinr1• its ITI'ation tiiHinr ll11• rww StudPnt Union Constitution. 
CAMPus LIFE CotJNCIL 

Making the grade 
B­
• The senate has handled some important topics this tnrm, but it hasn't always han· died thnm wnll. A good job on nuts and bolts issues and stu­dent government reform helps to bring this grade up, though. 
to look morn dosely at the matter, the Senate formed a committee to study tlw anwndment. Some say this nlsParch should havP been done bdorn any resolution was passnd. 
"Bdorn you can makfl a deeision, you should have all the facts," said Fisher stmator Phil Dittmar. "If w11're going to put our name on something, we should know what we're backing." 
Otlwrs, however, point to the timeli­nnss of the issue, saying it was impor­tant for the Senate to make a state­ment wlwn they did. 
"I think people f(lll like we needed to gilt a statmnent out in time for the Acadmnic Council." said Keenan sima­tor Matt Mamak. "I would've liked us to put morll research in ... but I don't know how much good it would've donP." 
Tlw Senate drew criticism on proce­dural courtesy issues as well. ND/SMC Hight to Life prt)sident Catriona Wilkie tried to address the senate during a debate of its letter wekiHning former Sen. Bradley to Notre Damn. Wilkie came to the meeting, but becausP of speaking procedures, she was not fully allowed to speak. 
''I'm very appalled by that," said Dittmar. "I don't understand why we don't treat people with respect at all. That's not what"s supposed to hap­pen." 
Knott senator Drew Olejnik, who hold the tloor when Wilkie addressed the Senate, looked at it diiTerently. 
"If people want to talk to the snnate, we want them to feel welcome," he said, saying th e most effective way to get an audience with the senate is to go through student body vice president Andn\a Snlak. "But this is a political body and there are procedures that have to be followed." 
This year's senate has worked extensivdy on Food Services issues, and has developed a dialogue with managers on issues ranging from backpacks in South Dining Hall to menus in North. 
It has also held meetings with repre­sentatives from the department of Facilities Operations to discuss cam­pus improvements and constn1hion, and worked at length to refine the Student Union constitution. 
Compared to last year's body, this year's group is more ambitious, says Mamak, the one holdover from the previous senate. 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Boards see success  
By FINN PRESSLY News Writer  
Tho .Judicial Council hogan its year with an ambi­tious set of goals. and just three months later, it appears it is on track to achieve thnm. "I think we've got a pretty good start so far," said Kellio Folks, .Judicial Council Prosident. "It's hard to come by a rector that's not going to help out. They're all very interested in tho well being of their studllnts." Under the leadership of Folks, the .Judicial Couneil members have focused much of' their attl:'ntion on enhancing the judicial boards within tho t'(lsidonen halls. As a result, many dorms on campus are in the process of building their own judicial boards. "The people from the hall judidal couneils are meeting with the rectors and hall presidents and senators, as well, and from what I've heard, every­one's been real cooperative," she said. Another project condueted under the auspices of the Judicial Council is tho movement to have a con­stitution written for each residence hall. "Wo have a bunch of dorms that already have constitutions, and others that are nearing comple­tion," said Folks, naming Keough, Howard, and Knott Halls among those that have drafted such doc­uments. The Advocacy Board has also made strides in helping students navigate the campus legal system. ''Advoeacy is doing rflal well. We've had a bunch of cases where advocates have all had positive expe­riences," she said. Next semester. Folks said she wants to address the bylaws of hall government, something that can only be approached after her current work is completed. "We're saving tlw creation or improving of bylaws for the hall governments until next semester because it's easier to get a bask framework done and work from there," Folks explainod. But despite the Council's suceessos, Folks is quick to acknowledge the long road that lies ahead. "It's a lot of work, and it won't necessarily have immediate etl'eeL'l." RESIDENCE HALL AsSOCIATION RHA results mixed  
By COLLEEN McCARHIY Sainr Mnry's N<.-ws Editor  
Mixed success and the realization that somP cam­paign promises are hard to keep best deseribe thn experiences of the 1998-99 term of the Hesidenr.n Hall Association's executive board. The HilA executive board campaigned with a plat­lbrrn of establishing a Big Sistt~r program that would have paired uppordasswomlln with freshmen, creat­ing a newsletter, setting up a HilA Web pagll as Wf~ll a:> inerea.sing involveml'nt in the organization. But the board realizod that some of its c~ampaign platforms were unrealistic ~n· already existed in some !brm. "We docidod against having ttw Big Sist(•r program because the freshman class this year was so large and we didn't feel wn would lind the interest among the uppnrdasswornnn that. would bn nnenssary.'' said Kat Rademacher. HilA socrPtary. "To have some­thing of that magnitude eomc off well, it required mm·e time that we had." The board discovernd that the program would overlap with the goals of freshman orientation coun­selors who are supposed to continue to maintain contaet with nwmbers of their group al'tor orienta­tion is over. "We didn't want to step on the toes of the orienta­tion counselors aftor we talktld to thmn and rnalized that this program fell in with their goals," said Hademacher. The proposed nowslettet·, whkh would have bem1 produced by HHA, was a rlljoctod after soeing that Hesidence Life and individual residenee halls pro­duce monthly newsletters. The Web pago is almost complete and will bn used to list HilA sponsored events, which is what the newsletter would have done, said Hademaeher. "Right now, it is just the barn bonos of the WtJb page that is there," shn said. "Once it is finished, we want to list who makes up the HHA exn<'utivn board and eommittePs and list our goals." Iw~masing involvement in HilA and making resi­dents more aware of what Hili\ d1ws is anothrr gmil of the ollicers that has been met, said Gina Guerreso, RHA presidnnt The bom·d has also attempted to compensatn for campaign promises that didn't materialize. Curmntly, HHA is surveying stuchmts rPsiding in residence halls in order to formulate a proposal to change quiet hours. "Once the survey is eornpletn, HilA will discuss tho results and formulate a proposal," said Cuerreso. "We would like to make quiet hours start later at night and end later in the morning. This is in an Hifort to perhaps keep more studenL-; living on-cam­pus rather than moving off-campus."  


By fiNN PRESSLY 
New' Wrircr 
;\s a forum of dPIJalP, thn Campus l.ii'P Counril ICI.CI has bonn nnor­mmrslv swornssful. but so l'ar this ynar 1111' di~wssions haw lnd to fnw ron­tTI'It• rnsolutions and proposals. 
"Tiw CI.C providPs a good forum ll'or studPntsi to voicn tludr opinions about issut's on campus dirnrtly to n·rtors ami administrators," said I'Pln CPsan•. studPnt body pn·sidPnt. 
llral'ting truly wPll-roundnd propos­als and rPsolutions rnquirns input lh1111 all points ol' vinws, act:ording to I :r•saro. 1-'tw that n~ason. lw said, thn t:ounril miXPs studt•nl nwmlwrs with stllllt' involvnd in othnr l'acPts of tlw llniwrsil.y. 
"To Pllhanrt' tlw studPnt rnsolu­lions, you also Jll'l'd n•ctm·s. l'arulty nwnrlwrs. and administrators to sup­port till' idt•as that thr• studnnls havn rom1• up with." Cnsaro said. 
1\ul dnspilt' that potnntially winning formula. tht' t'llliiH'.il has ynt to pro­durt' a rPSOliiHiing stH'.I'.nss. It has ht•PJJ nitiriwd l'or addrPssing only minor campus issuPs and ignoring morn important onns. 
Tlu• Cl.C's lack ol' productivity 
Group resolves little to date 
Making the grade 
C+ 
• Despite months of debate, the CLC has only passed two rcsolutions. A new direction gives reason for hope in what has been an otherwise uneventful semester. 
stnms from thn relatively small amount of attention given to the Coundl. according to i\va Preacher, assistant dean of the Collngn of i\rts and I .etters. 
"The structure is really a problnm bncausn wn, as a body, indudo roe­tors, administrators, l'at~ulty and stu­dents. It seoms to me that thorn • should lw more weight in that kind of voicn, and tlwrn 's not," Preaelwr explainPd. "Civen what they've got to work with, tlwy'rn doing well." 
Slw did agree that the council's pnt issllllS this semnster have in no way bnnn tlw major ones that all'ect cam­pus lif'n. 
"The big issues are thn kind of 
things that we don't seem to tackle. The CLC has not taken up the issue of the WHC !Women's Hesource Center) probation, which seems to go straight to the heart of the issues of campus life," said Preadwr. 
Brian O'Donoghue, chairman of the Undergraduate Finances committee, attributes the lack of resolutions to the rnlatively short amount of time the committees have had to work. 
";\ lot of work in the CLC is done in committees. ibutl we've only had two months to really work on things," he said. "It's still early. From the com­milllw mnetings I've been going to, come .January, thern's going to bt~ a slew of recommendations and things among those I inns." 
()'Donoghue's committee was responsible for introducing thn bold topic of tuition frntlZPS into foray of discussion. llopnfully, this rPprPsents a mon) ambitious and promising trend in the kind of issues the CI.C choostls to addrnss. 
"It was a discussion that wn dnli­nitnly nnndnd to have." said Prnaehnr of ()'Donoghue's proposal. "The stu­dents need to be speaking out about it. It's a really sensitive topic, which is good. We need sensitive topics." 


---~ --------------~---­

~r-----------~ ------------------­
~ page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
f f 
Gingrich eyes presidency! 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

On his way out of Congress, Newt Gingrich is promising to explore "many avenues for a public life," a phrase that has triggered speculation that he might be heading for the road to the White House. 
Gingrich isn't saying whether he will run for pr.esident in 2000. His closest advisers say he won't decide for weeks or months. But as he ponders his future, picking up the pieces from disappointing midterm elections, Republicans are debating whether Gingrich could be a serious contender. 
Supporters argue that Gingrich is still a top party fund-raiser and a leader with "big ideas" who energizes audiences like no other Hepublican, including poll-top­ping Gov. George W. Bush of Texas. 
''I'm a big fan of George W. Bush, but it's a long way to go between now and ... 2000," said longtime Gingrich adviser Hich Galen. 
Gingrich "has such incredible energy and intellect that he would have the ability to drive the race by his very presence," said Tom Hath, a New Hampshire party leader who is helping former Tennessee Gov. Lamar Alexander position for the 2000 race. 
But others say Gingrich is too scarred by the wars of Washington to make a serious run. 
"It would defeat everything he's achieved with his graceful exit from the House," said Hepublican media consultant Alex Castellanos of Alexandria, Va. He said Gingrich has been the GOP "point man" for too long. 
"The good news is the point man gets to blaze the trail. The 
Dame Department of Music presents Faculty Artist 
Carolyn Plummer. violin 
with Scott Holshouser, piano 
Mozart: Sonata No. 4 for Piano & Violin in EMinor 
Beethoven: 

2 pm, Sunday, Nov 1 5 Annenberg Auditorium 
Tickets required: 
$1 0 general, $8 ND/SMC, $6 seniors, $3 students. Tickets available at the LaFortune Box 

University of Notre Dame International Study Programs Nagoya, Japan 

bad news is you get shot full of bullet holes doing it," Castellanos said. 
Exit polls on Nov. 3 showed that nearly six of every 10 vot­ers nationwide viewed Gingrich unfavorably. Even in his home state of Georgia, he could muster only a 4 7 percent favorable rating. 
"His negatives are just too high," said Tom Slade, chair­man of the Florida GOP, though he called Gingrich the party's most articulate 
'ITHINK THE LOSS OF FIVE 
HOUSE SEATS WAS A 
VERY SERIOUS SETBACK FOR 
A GINGRICH PRESIDENTIAL 
RUN.' 
STEVE GRUBBS 

IOWA REPUBLICAN CHAIRMAN 
spokesman and fund raiser. 
Gingrich's chances also might be hurt by perceptions among conservatives that he capitulated too often in negoti­ations " 
"I think Newt did a lot of good things early on but as a leader he got away from our message and that resulted in what happened in the elec­tions," said Tim Lambert of Texas, a leading conservative voice among Hepublican National Committee members. 
As for the midterm elections, Steve Grubbs, chairman of the Iowa Hepublican Party, said, "I think the loss of five House seats was a very serious set­back for a Gingrich presiden­tial run ... There is a lot of dis­appointment among the rank and file." 
Yet critics and supporters alike say Gingrich's chances 

-~~=:..-: 
Nagoya, Japan 
Last Information Meeting With Prof. Setsuko Shiga 631-6509 
Thursday November 12, 1998 5:15p.m. 205 O'Shaughnessy 
Application Deadline December 1, 1998 
Franck: Sonata for Piano &Violin in A Major 
might be helped by his decision to leave the House. 
He could soon begin retool­ing his political image, free of the bickering that helped cement his reputation as a Washington !irebrana. 
"The run is easier, if he decides to make it, by not being burdened with the responsibility of speaker," said Slade, the Florida GOP chair­man. "But the fact that he had to resign as speaker in order to prevent a very divisive situa­tion in the House kind of speaks for itself. ... He's a polarizing figure." 
Said Gingrich ally Galen: "He's got more time to think about what he wants to say and how he wants to say it because he's not spending 18 hours a day in meetings ... in the Capitol." 
Advisers say that while being J-lous!l speaker was his lifelong goal, Gingrich may be looking for a new place in history. 
In a Monday night speech to GOPAC, a political action com­mittee he helped form, Gingrich sprinkled his remarks with comments that raised questions about his presiden­tial ambitions. 
"There are many avenues for a public life beyond the speak­ership," he said. "As I leave public office and rejoin the ranks of active citizenship the venue changes and the cause lives on." 
Will a new venue be the cam­paign trail? Not now, anyway. 
Advisers expect Gingrich to spend the next several weeks thinking about the future while earning $50,000 or more mak­ing speeches. He still believes he can wait until next summer to get in the race. 
Or, said Galen, noting that Gingrich's interests include studying dinosaur bones, the speahr may simply say, "I want to go dig rocks." 

4: NEITHER ONE GET AM~ REIPECT! 
But you will at Williamsburg on the Lake Apartments, where students always get a $50.00 security deposit and a $20.00 monthly rent discount. 
1 Bedrooms from $499/month 
2 Bedrooms from $577 /month 
3 Bedrooms from $817/month 
Rent an apartment by November 30, 1998 and you'll receive a gift certificate from Red lobster when you move in, so instead of throwing seafood, you can eat some! 
@ 
EQUAL HOUSING 
OPPORTUNITY 
Williamsburg 
~~ 
Phone: 256-0237 
Tree heads toward Rockefeller Center 
Associa ted Press 
CLEVELAND A big Christmas]:>resent was headed to New York · · y, butnot on ~),.sleigh--::: 
cargoplane. }i!i'i!''' his year's edition of the 
Rockefeller Center ·Christmas e•... a •.• ~.g-foot high, .7 -ton way spruce donated by a couple . from suburban Cleveland, was loaded this · · ningi?to an Antpnov 124 the only pla.qe with a · 1 enough hold.· It was to be flown to New York later 
y and hoisted into place .. huts(la,y. The tree, which was the 
biggest thing on the land­scape before it was cut down Tuesday, was now dwarfed by the 226-foot-long plane at Cleveland Hopkins Inter­n~tional Airport. 
On Tuesday, a team of workers decked out in bright red sweatshirts sawed down 
.the tree•.then gently lowered it>onto an oversized, flatbed truck as the Ethel and Adolph Szitar and their 
n!'lighbors watched in awe. i"My grandson's eyes got as big as saucers. It'll be nice for him to remember." said neighbor Allen Stubbs. 
Mrs. Szitar's eyes were pretty wide, too, as she fol­lowed the spectacle of the .tr~e moving horizontally tl:trough the air toward the truck. 
"It's thrilling -it's tb:rilling," said Mrs. Szitar, 
81. "It's really nice." 
With a procession of police cars leading the way, the tree was taken to Cleveland Hopkins International Airport where it was stored overnight. It will be hoisted 
Q.: WHAT DO RODNE~ DANGERFIE:LD AND AN OCTOPUI AT A NOTRE DAit\E FOOTBA:L:L GAit\E HAVE IN COit\it\ON? 
into place in Manhattan on Thursday. 
The spruce was the Szitars' family Christmas tree in 1938 and then was planted outside their ranch home in Richfield, about 20 miles south of Clevehmd. 
The Szitars and their neighbors in this suburban cqmmunity of wide, wooded lots always felt the tree was stately. 
But no one ever thought of putting it to use for another Christmas, and lately Mrs. Szitar got nervous when she saw it towering over her one­story house. 
She remembered looking at the tree this spring and thinking "it's getting awfully big. If we get a storm, there goes our house." 
Then David Murbach, man­ager of the Rockefeller Center gardens division, spotted the spruce in April as he flew over in a helicopter, looking for the perfect tree. An ice storm last winter had forced him to search outside New York state. 
He spoke to the Szitars that day. 
"They were pretty sur­prised," Murbach said. "It isn't exactly like having the Avon lady knock on your door." 
Rockefeller Center will get the tree for free, but Mrs. Szitar, her two children and three grandchildren are being given a free trip to New York next month for the tree­lighting ceremony. Adolph Szitar has Parkinson's dis­ease and is not planning to make the trip. 
A new tree will be planted for the Szitars. "It's for the next generation," Mrs. Szitar said. 


f­
Thursday, November 12, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 


acar that actually runs, and reality is waiting for you just around the next oend. 
You've come far. But you've got a lot further to go. Thats where SONY Technology Center comes in. 
If you're a junior or senior majoring in engineering, consider a career at Sony. We Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania-the perfect -sized city, with countless cultural events and a great tradition of winning sports teams. 
Forward your resume to your school's placement office. Or, contact a 
l 00l Technology Drive, Mt. Pleasant, PA 15666, Attn: Professional Staffing, or apply 
jobs_Pittsburgh 

@ccmail.sgo. job. You'll have sonycom opportunity for advancement. And you'll be working SONY 
SONY TECHNOLOGY
in a great place, 
CENTER 
just outside 


page 10 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 12, 1998 

The ServiceMaster Foundation, University of Notre Dame College of Business Administration and the Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business 
e-tJ4dta-tt~ tn-tttte ~aee ta t~e 

Hansen-Wessner Memorial Lecture 
featuring 

Principal Lecturer: 
Michael Novak 
Theologian. author, and former U.S. Ambassador 
With Cotntnents By: 
Nathan 0. Hatch 
Ralph Chan1i 
TODAY 

at the College of Business Adtninistration Notre Datne, Indiana 
Reception: 4:30pm Atrium, College of Business Lecture: 5:00 pm, Jordan Auditorium College of Business 
A II are w .....e I come to attend ! 
. .··::::r.:=t­.... .t :.: --·-.... ¥ : ..~ -~. .». '\. \; '!":_.. ; _l .• -~ ~ -\,.,1( ;~ "-:'",W, ~~-"'i.·.!r t. ;.. "'"-**' ... " .."t.:.~:)f?~~ ~~ ....... ' '·-•• ;f:, .. -... .t . •.• '* • t '· • ' ' . ; . ' j,···~ •• .;.. ~ ., "' /. ~ ~ • 


---~----~ ---------------------~-­
Thursday. November I2, I998 
First kiss. First apartment. First degree. Now it's time to begin your first career. 

e 
I 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page II 



ASSURANCE AND BUSINESS ADVISORY SERVICES TAX & LEGAL SERVICES 
When is bigger better? When it means greater resources, more opportunity, and industry advantages to propel your career toward success. That's what you'll find at PricewaterhouseCoopers, the world's premier professional services organization. When you join any of our service lines, you'll have an opportunity to participate in everything we do. We believe in the power of shared knowledge, the ability to innovate, and worlds without boundaries. That's how we do business. And that's why we place no limits on your growth and success. 
If you're ready to take your quest for knowledge to the next level, let's talk. 
INTERN PRESENTATION 
For Accounting, CAPP/Business and MIS Majors Tuesday, November 17, 7-9 pm Greenfields Cafe Hesburgh Center for International Studies 
Casual Dress 
www.pwcglobal. com just dick on "Careers" 
PricewaterhouseCoopers is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. 
© 1998 PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. PricewaterhouseCoopers refers to the U.S. organization of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and other members of the worldwide PricewaterhouseCoopers organization. 


VIEWPOINT 


• So, WHAr's Mv POINT? 
Gingrich, Experts Misread Public Mood 
Ding, dong, th~ Wicked Speaker, the Wicked Speaker, the Wicked Speaker, ding dong, the Wicked Speaker is dethroned! 
Nakasha Ahmad 

Yes. I am a liberal. But no, [am not a registered Democrat. And I have no con­neetions whatsoever with Charlie Trie or .John Huang. Honest. 
On Friday, the unimaginable hap­pened. Newt (it's fitting that his name is like that of the lizard) Gingrieh, divisive Republiean extraordinaire, decided to (gasp!) step down from the Speakership of the House of Representatives and to remove himself from the House perma­nently. The reason for this dramatic move was the loss Republicans sufl'ered in Tuesday's elections, in a national cam­paign that was largely managed by Gingrich himself. 
It is hard to believe that a man with pretensions of being the next (or maybe after that) President of the United States of America would voluntarily give up one of the most important positions in the 
U.S. government. 
On the other hand, he'd look pretty inefi'ective, and weak, and powerless and hey, pathetic if he ran for the Speakership and lost. 
Pulling out of a contest leaves the potential of saving face. Losing a eontest? 
There's not a lot of face-saving there. What can you say? "Yeah, it's true that I brought most of these Republicans to power, hut it really doesn't mean any­thing that their gratefulness has worn off. I'm still the most powerful GOPer in the nation. Really. Honest. I am not a crook." 
Oh, wait sorry. Wrong Republican leader. 
The week before the elections, our class got to go backstage and watch the pre-election taping of the McLaughlin Group, where five oracles from the media business pretend they're Cassandra for a day. (Cassandra's mis­fortune was that she was always right but that nobody would ever listen. Our misfortune is that the pundits are always wrong but we're forced to listen to them every time we flip on the aptly named "boob 
tube.") 
Let's see. The most conserva­tive (conser­vative as in low expec­tations, not conserva­tive as in the Robertson right) pre­dictions were that the Hepublicans would gain three seats in the Senate, and 
six in the House. (Here I present artother moment of silence-or noise-for liberals and Democrats to gloat. I'm assuming that my introduction scared away any Republican readers that I might have had.) 
Back to my point, these predicted gains were the most eonservative estimates. The most extreme {extreme as in high expectations AND extreme as in the Buchanan brigade) estimates predicted there would be a gain of seven seats in the Senate, bringing Senate Hepublicans to a filibuster-proof 62, and a gain of 13 seats in the House. Thank God Pat Buchanan (the extreme) was never given Cassandra-like powers. 
Now, of course, we know that Hepublicans didn't pick up any scats in the Senate, and actually LOST five seats in the House. (I'm now presenting anoth­er opportunity for Democrats to gloat. Now I know there aren't Republicans still reading this piece). 
In the past week, there have been a flurry of newspaper articles analyzing the defeat. Not the defeat of the Hcpublicans. No. the analysis is on the 


• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
Let's sec. The vast majority of votnrs approve of Clinton. But there's a lot of "negative mwrgy" out there as well. 
Who do you think is going to be the object of that nngative enm·­gy? It doesn't take a brain scientist to tell you that if voters approve of the leader of one party, then the negative rmergy will bn focused on the~ opposing party. 

So, if the pundits had really thought about it-and they arn paid to think about it-then they would 
have seen this fiasco (filr the Republicans) coming. i\nd maybe Gingrich would have changed tactics. 

And maybe the llepublieans would have won after all. And maybe Gingrich would then still be Speaker of the House. Kind of scares you, doesn't it? 
Nakaslza Ahmad is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. lie column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Cometimes I think you 
.:Jhave to march right in 
and demand your rights, 
even if you don't know what 
your rights are, or who the 
person is you're talking to. 
Then, on the way out, slam 
the door.' 
-Jack Handey 
defeat of the pundits. How could they be wrong? Why didn't the American voters, that incorrigible mass public, behave the way the pundits said they would behave? 
Shame on you, America. You voted Democrat. You proved the pundits wrong. Now how are they going to regain any credibility as expert political pontili­cators? 
Since pundits are paid millions of dol­lars for their {wrong) opinions, predic­tions and analysis, I figured that I would ofl'er my own analysis -free of charge -to you, the reader. The reason the pundits were wrong is that they thought purnly in a political paradigm. llow would such-and-such a remark influence them, how would a politician, (or some­one familiar with the beltway culture) perceivn Clinton and the Democrats, etc. And in spite of the fact that polls showed that Clinton was still gntting incredibly high approval ratings, John McLaughlin elainwd that focus groups showed that there was a lot of "nngative energy" out in tlw public, and tlw Hnpublicans were right in directing it toward Clinton, and that's why the GOP would win the elec­
tions. 

VIEWPOINT 
Thursday. November 12, 1998 os~ERVER ------------------------------------------------page 13 
• "' ,;: 11 -'',-f!! FROM ATHREE MINUTE RECORD, BABY 
Forging New Power and Freedom for Women 
"I'm inl'irll'ihfl' . .'·!o arl' you. We do all lunch to mak«~ p«~<u:o with our thighs. thl' thinys thl'y say 11'1' can't do. We Wn think that wn arn sluts and r«~grd it u•alk aromul in the middle l!f'tlw night all, or wn are ombarrassod for our vir­and trlwn it's ton far to u•alk tl'l' just ginity and wonder if we're odd. We hitch a ridI'. WI' yol rinys l!( dirt around rnakn pacts before parties, "if I drink our rwcks and U'l' talk like auctioneers will you watch out for m«~'?" We know and 11'1' howtn• like checks ... " that.tlwrn aro things wo just don't do. 
-Ani l>iFraneo Wo know to walk tho well-beaten, well­lit paths. We lnarn how to «:ock our I must lw a suicidal l'ool. In tho past !wads and makn ovnry snntonco nnd in a WPPk I havl' 
=============;;=:=::=:=:=;~question mark. We
arr.nptPd two -: narn to walk softly. ridns from Tho Black Panthors
Mary

sl rang!' IllI'll. Tlw had a saying, "I'd first rrran was rather die on my feet I hi rty-se lllH'l h ing. than live on my knees." hailing from I'm not a suicidal
Margaret 

( :apP Town with fool. I don't want to a sing-song hari­din. Ilovo my life and I
Nussbaum 

lorw. ThP SPCmHI 
want to be gray-hairnd rnan was old and _____:========----~and wrinklnd someday. 
-

whitP-hairPd. hP want to bo a wrinklod drovP a f\1Prrnde•s and gaVP mn a mint old l'ool. I probably won't accnpt any and wantf'd to !I'll nw about tlw wifn lw morn ridos. But I rnl'uso to grow hard, I orwP had; tlw niPphants lw has wat.dwd; n~fuso to grow cold. I don't want to live tlw way things arc~. il' living nwans inhaling foar, doubting 
It is truf' that Narnibians arn known my evnry movo. I don't want to live if liv­for giving orw anothPr lifts and that, in ing nwans complaenncy with all thn g.·nPral. hitrhhiking is far saf'nr wicknd powers that bo, if it means hPn' than in llw Stall's. That kooping a whistle on my key chain doPsn't !liPan it is sal'!'. and a man's voico on my 
.\s little• girls Wf' all answnring machine. le•arrrPrJ the• litany of' I'm so thankful that I was horrid things that born a girl wlwn I was. he•l'all fools. WP All tlw l'atos ol' gnogra­li•arnPd to l'e•ar phy and timo and fam­thC' grtiC'SOIIIC' ily eollidml in the cos­powe•r or mos and yes, I givn strangPrs and praise. Blnss'ed be. folks who arc• I'm thankful to all just too the pioneering l'rie•rrcllv. \VC' wonHm who made IPamPilthat it possible for mn all rrrol ivns to become a arc• SIIS­long-distaneo IH'I'l. We• truck driver, or li·anwd a nun, to that wP b«~eome a legis­arc• iniH•r­lator, or a moth­Pntly !'rag­or, or a beat ill' hC'ings poet. and that if What I want WP want to now is the grow opportunity to strong WC' be a fool. I want haVP to to bo abln to grow hard. ~ makn the samn 
\Ve• havP to 1 
grow rold. '-" 
~~~:~~t~~~ ~t~:11~~an 
"It's a long. make. I want to bn long road. II 's abln to tako oil' on a big. big thoso trains that world. WP arc• whistle in tho night, wisP. wisP to walk alone bofore \\'ollll'll. 'vVP arc• dawn and wear short giggling girls. We• skirts in sketchy venues. both carry a smiiP t.o I want to not lmvp. to show whPn we're· cross thn strnnt in the city ple•asPd. We• both rarry wlwn a man approadws. I a switrhbladP in our want to bn abln to stick out my siPI'VC'S ... " thumb whnn my feet grow t.imd. I 
I haw two siste•rs who slrinP likl' want to haw the fn1mlom to bo young stars and a rnotlwr who is brilliant and a and stupid and nnwrgn unsc:athod and whoiP slPw of gorge~ous girll'rie•rHls that strong. I want to grow into a wisn, witty ran I'Pally shake• things up.()(' \'.0\II'SI~. woman who has storiP.s to tell beeausn I llwy don't SPPm to know this. No 0111' havn bnnn abln to liw, and livn dnnply. tolcl tlwm that tlrc•y arP invinc:ibln. Tlwy don't know how bright tlwy burn. Mary Afargaret Cecilia Nussbaum is a 
Tlwrc• arc· amazing wonwn at tlw sophomore 1'/.S major. She is studying in I Jnive•rsitv of NolrP DamP. TlwrP an• Namibia .first semester through the worrrPil \~·lw arc• as rompPtPnt with a Ctmterfor Global h'ducation . .'.,'fw may he ralnrlrrs Pquation as tlwy an~ with a soc:­reached at cgl'st@ia_ji-im.com.na. !fer e·pr hall as tlwy arc• at a loud party column appears ePery other Thursday. whne• tlwy don't know anyonP. So why '/1w l'il'll'S t•:rpressed in this column do so many of us SJH'lHI orrr r.n~ativity are thosl' 1!/'lhl' author and not nec!'s­arrd intPiligPrH'f' pondPring tlw most sarily those l!('f'he Ohsenwr. de•adly dull quPstions" 
We• think about what W«' alP for bn~ak­l'ast. WP li·PI pangs of guilt and wondnr what ralisllwnir.s Wf' e·.an PIHIUrl' during 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
N. D. Community Should 
Live Charity, not Hate and Intolerance 
As a Lutheran pastor studying both that I shouldn't be shoek«ld. In all hon­liturgy and preaching here at Notre esty, I am saddened by the fact that, of Dame, it has been my privilege for the all the good things that Notre Dame last three and a half years to listen in studonts have to offor tho faith, the as my Christian cousins of the Roman Chureh and the world, what we SC(lm Catholic clan have worshiped and cele­increasingly to be given is the justilka­brated, prayed and professed, whis· tion of violenco and a c1wt.ain pered and questioned, worried and 'Catholicization' of intolerance, bigotry wondered ... about their faith and and hate. Is this really the rock upon about the Church and about our world. which Jesus would have us build'? And when I have found myself among Whilo I resist boing labeled a my own Lutheran kin, l am inevitably "heretic," I readily admit to being a asked what it is like to study at "that "neighbor." After all, Vatican ll's Catholic school." docroe on ecurnnnisrn, Unitalis 
I have delighted in deflating their Redintegratio, stated that "the Catholie sometimes anti-Homan prejudice by Chureh accepts lmembPrs of separated sharing the fact that I have always felt churches] with respect and al'fl-lction welcomed and rospocted and, on a as brothers and sistnrs" (Par 3) and good day, even valued and cherished continues to say that they ''are accept­as a pastor, theologian, scholar and ed with good reason as brothers and Christian. I take pride in the fact that sisters by the children of the f.atholic this is a place of ideas whore different Chureh." And I recall that .Jesus (and opinions are openly debated. Notre many. if not all, Popes through tho Dame is a true university. Then I go on ages and up to tlw presnnt.) taught that to speak of all that we Lutherans could our relationship with neighbors should and should learn from our Homan be one of faith and hope and love, with Catholic cousins about commitment t.o love being the gr'IHttPst of these t.hrne. worship, tho life of prayer, the central· I write this Jettnr to publicly remind ity of the Eucharist -the list goes on! myself (and you) that, though a small 
It will bH a bit less pleasant the next but troubling minor·ity is sereaming time I find myself among my Lutheran loudly. in the vast major·ity of Notre kin and am forced to confess what I Dame voices I hoar love of neighhol'. am overhearing these days at our uni­One such voice reeently reminded me versity. A conversation that I over· of the words of' Saint Augustine: hoard in tho Huddle last week cannot "Scripture teaches nothing but chal'ity be dismissed as immatme or unin­... I call 'charity' thl-l motion of the soul formed because tho speakers wore or toward the onjoyment of God for his an age by which they should recognize own sakr, and the enjoyment of one's the power of words. self and of one's neighbor for the sake 
"Guess we showed those 'baby of God" (De Doet.rina Christiana iii. I 0, killers' in Buffalo,» someone said, 15, 16). reminding me of the recent murder of I am sincerely grateful for the many, a physician in upstate New York. A bit many voices or rarulty. students and lat(~r someone else said, "Can you stall' thmugh whom I havo heard believe they're letting Bill Bradley Christ speak and from whom I have speak here'?'' "Why should we be sur­learned so much. I am confident that prised?" Tho first wondernd. ''This those aro tho voicos that will be hoard Catholic institution allows Jews, ultimately. I fear that the time is eom­Mennonites, and Protestant heretics to ing and has already como whon they teach in the ThBology Department." A, will need to turn up tlulir volurrH1. I few days later I opened The Observer pmy that they will. and found Gabriel Mm;tinez stoning theologians with the roek on which the Rev. Craig A. Satterlee Church is built and myself referred to Ph.D. Stud~nr. Department of Theology as a "heretic neighbor." November J 0, I 998 
I suppose I eould be angry. I know 
Office ofAlcohol and Drug Education Responds to Rise in Alcohol Abuse on Campus 
With the recent death of Miehigan lyrics about responsibl!• socializing to State student Bradloy McCue and the the tunn or any AProsrnith song. What current outbreak of' alcohol poisoning would a eontost bo without a prizo. on our own campus, many students though'? The reward is 2 free tickets are wondering what can be done to to the upcoming AProsmith concert at pr·ovent similat· ovents from occurring tho .IACC. Th(l lyries should foeus on at Notre Dame. the positive aspects of' responsible 
Fourteen eases of alcohol poisoning socialization. Keep your Pyes on Tlw wore reported on our campus during Obst\l'ver f'or more details, or eall thn the tit·st two weeks of school. Sinee Offiec of Aleohol and Drug Education then, there have been 3 to 4 reported at 1-7970. We know this sounds lib! a cases each weekend. What is the sham1~Ioss plug, and it is. problem here'? What is the difference between this year and years past? Mike Bradt This outbreak could be because many Junior, Dillon Hall studnnts do not realize the danger Kevin Clark inherent in irresponsible drinking. In Sophomore. Dillon I!all order to cornbat this lack of knowl­Nov~mbcr 11, I'J'J8 odgn, The OJ'fico or Alcohol and Drug Education will sponsor an upcoming contest. The eontest will entail writing 


OTHE ---------------Thursday, November 12, 1998
Boing, Boing! I'm sorry • 
Class registration in the future will go online to ease student complaints 
By LOUBEL CRUZ 
Assistant Scene Editor 
As a college student. there are many stresses that happen in day to day life -chemistry tests, rash professors, wind blowing your only umbrella inside-out. 
But, twice a year. the largest of the painful-yet ­necessary stresses looms up on Notre Dame stu­dents causing a panic and anticipation throughout the campus. 
That time is now. 
DART. 

Direct Access Registration by Telephone is the primary means for class registration at the University of Notre Dame. Each student is assigned a designated registration time. randomly selected among their class, and has fifteen minutes to pick and register for their courses. 
"DAHT is most effective way to register because it provides a method of input that is convenient for all students -the telephone," said Harold Pace, University Registrar. "Registration is as near as the closest phone." 
For all students, choosing the right classes for the next semester is essential. and when there are troubles in the registration process, one cannot help but get frustrated with the system. 
"Hegistration for classes should not be stressful or time-consuming," said Pace. "Of course, not all students will get their first choices. but this process gives everyone a fair chance." 
Notre Dame established the DAHT system in the late 1980s. Notre Dame ..yas one of the first schools to use telephone registration which, at the time, was considered innovative and new. Before DART. students registered with the "Check Mark" system which consisted of standing in line for a card to bring to your chosen class. 
Registration by the internet is the registrar's recent goal for the future. 
"We are currently working on a system that will allow students to register from any computer with an internet hook-up." said Pace. "We are looking into the characteristics would be of this form, but it is certain that web registration would open many windows for the students." 
Pace is hoping that web registration will be available before the year 2000 and will alliviate some of the complaints he receives from DART. 
"Web registration will increase the amount of hours students can use to register and their own appointment time. There are a lot of concepts to look at, like call-back times, but it is in the works," said Pace. 
Some students agree that registration by com­puter is certainly better than by phone. 
"If we had the ability to registrar for classes from our computer, like the ones at Grace, it would ease the congestion on the phones and help with the stress level from hearing that busy sig­nal," said junior Arnold Lacayo. 
In the mean time, students will have to settle with DART. 
"I think DAHT is relatively ineffective," said. junior Ashley Lowery. "With my major I have to arrange my schedule around the few classes that are open. ,I feel I am at the mercy of the phone 


and some computer of what classes I am taking and when I am taking them." The way DAHT times are assigned to each person is one of the major complaints among the students. 
"It seems unfair that people who get bad DAHT times don't get the classes they want," said Lowery. "They are paying the same amount of tuition as the people who DART on the first day." 
"I know people who get the last DAHT time con­sistently every semester and peopln who get the first one every semester, " she added. 
The registrar insists the DAHT times are fair and unbiased. "The appointment times arc assigned randomly within the class without any priorities." said Pacn. 
Some students have no problem with DAHT. 
"I perscmally have no problem with DAHT." said Lacayo. "I know people in other schools that still have to stand in line for classes. They don't get their first choice and its a hassle" 
"You can always work around it (DART) by talk­ing to professors and exemption forms." said senior Bridget Holland. "They nned a concrntn sys­tem and this is just a means to an end." 
The main criticism among students is the noisn one gets when the class is closed. 
"That voice you get is so annoying!" said Lownry. "It's terrible when you are standing thnre with your fingers crossed hoping to hear a c:ertain sound." 
"Those songs you get make me so nervous," said Ilolland. "Thny should play the 1812 Overture instead." 
For up-to­the-minute registration information on DART 
(like what's closed or 
opening up at 7 p.m.) 
visit: 
http:/ /www2.nd.edu/i rish link 


c 

Thursday, November 12, 1998 
it's DART time 

The Horror Stories of DARTing 
By KATI MII.I.ER ~"'"'' W'mn 
I>AilT. Tlw word itsPlf conjun~s up images of LorturP. 
For most students lwrn at Notre Danw. DAHT is tiH• annoying process by which c·lassns arn sclwd­u!Pd. 1\vpr·yorH' strnsses for a few days. worrying about dosed classes and exemption forms. but by tlH• nP.xt spmnstnr DAI!T trauma has bnen forgot­Len. 
Sonw. howPve•r. are not so lucky. 
On1' undPrclassnwn rpcountnd he~r l'irst llAHT I'XIH'rie•ncP-wlwn lwr tinw was up. slw had got­lPn into 1'.1·:. but had no olhPr dassns. This slu­dPnL had l.lw last LimP on Llll' last day of I>ABT and SJH'nt tlw WI'Pk ai'LPr hPr rc~gistralion LimP nwe•ting with lwr advisor to l'ind l'ivP classPs slw ('ould take•. 
MPgan Fisl'lwr, a sophomorl' from Badin llall. also rPmPmlwrs lwr llAHT troublns. 
"I got into four rlassPs, but thPn my limn ran out. \V}H•n I got in at SI'Ve'n o'clock tlrat night. almost all thP P\ndiVI'S that business students could takl' we•rc• closPd." said Fischnr. "I was so f'nrstratl'd I l'inallv askPd mv roommatns to DABT for nw. I said. ·j trust you· guys-just gnt nw into a class''" 
Sophomorl' 1\latt llaggPtla has IH'Pn Pspncially unlucky with I>ABT-Ill' had bad nxpPril'nCPS hoth tillli'S Ill' USI'd I>Ain his frc~shmPn Vl'ar. 
"Spring Sl'llli'SLI'r I plannPd out thrc;c> diiTerPnt srlwdule•s but whc>n I cal!Pd in tlw phorw was busy for rny Pntirc> 15 minutPs," said Baggotla. 
lin immediately went to the Hcgistrar's office, wlH•re lw got another DAHT limn for a half-hour later. llis luck did not improve. 
"I finished my second 15 minutes with one class -Core," Baggetta said. "Tlw next couple of nights I called back and got into two more dasses. but by tlwn end of tlw year I still only had thren." 
The Begistrar's office informed Baggetta that he would have to DAHT long-distance over the sum­mer or try again when he returned in the fall. 
"I did get into one morn dass over the summer. and wlwn I came back I spent a few days running around dedaring my major and finding an advisor -and I finally managed to get a full schr.dule," hr. said. 
Sr.nior Adam· Hieek has not had a hard time with DAHT thus far. but he expects some trouble this snnwstnr. . 
"Since~ they changnd tlw philosophy classes so that a pnr('entagc of each class is rese~rved for each grade lr.vel, this year's seniors aren't going to be able to get in," said Hiee~k. 
"It's a good chango to make. bncauso now underclassmen won't have to wait until thrdr senior year to full'ill tlwir requirenwnts, but for tlw current seniors it makes things diiTic.u}l," Jw said. 
Obviously, DABT has been a painful experience for many students on campus. As tlu~ current DAHT season begins. try to stay calm and remem­ber that things could be worse -you could be a freshman again. 
Get ready to dial! 

s ­
page 15 
• 8cene THROUGH OUR EVES 
DART lS• not good to me 
ipf.MMETT MALLOY 
Assistant Scc:ne Editor 
49 &Wldon't even know why I bother opening those DART envelopes when they lirst come in the mail. From now on, I should just open them on the third day of DARTing, sometime in the after­noon, because ever since I've been in this uni· versity,; I've always managed to get the worst DART times. lli l may no.t be computer wizard, butl do know thafcomputers are supposed to be smart. Obviously something happened in the manufac­ture of.the DAHT computer. You would think t.bMJ4<:! co.mputer would do some kind of a rota­tion thing: foroxample, the people who had a DART time on the second day would be reward­ed with a DART time on the tirst day tho next time around. This way everyone would get to enjoy the lux· ury of DARTing on the tirst day, while also hav· ing to tolerate the misery of having it on the fourth day. Sure, I sound pretty negative, but you don't understand how mu<~h I've been screwed by the DAHT system in the relatively short time I've been at Notre Dame. wv(First semester of freshman year. I seriously wanted to fight the man behind the voice of DART -the guy who makes you feel like the biggest loser. Whnn you dial into <t class that's full, instead of hc>,at·ing an apology, you hoar what sounds like samplings of goat noises. "Bleee·ch, blee(:-eh. sorry, but that class is full," says the DAHT guy. Alright. alright, he didn't need to insult me just because I didn't get in a class. And he didn't ne,ed to do it ov('.r and over. Worse. he TALKS so mueh and so slow that he wastes your valuable DAHT time. You sit there on the phone waiting for him to say a simpln sentHnC'e because it takes him at loast a minute per word. Thanks to his Hain Man-like speed. I ended up being able to only sign up for two classes when I DARTed at tho end of last semestor. 1 spent tho remainder of the wnek running around campus getting p(mnission slips to t<tke this class or attauklng professors with e-ntails and phone numbers begging them to let me in their class. I understand that there is nl&lly no other way to arrange <~lassos at a. se~hool of this sizo, hut I'll be bold enough to say that tho DART system is stupider than the concept of parietals and the architecture of Stepan Center combined. And. since I'm writing this a.rtido. I might as woll open the DAHT letter I got a few days ago. Well. what do you know, TilE THIHD DAY AGAIN. 
'? 
The views e.-rprl'ssed in Sane Through Our Eyes are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Obser11er. 
·----------------------------------~------­

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
-
• PROFESSIONAl TENNIS • CollEGE BAsKETBAll 
... 
Graf finally returns 
Temple tops Wake Forest 
to top of her game 
Associated Press Owls' final field goal of the had 10 points against Temple. 
game. Temple closed the first half Associated Press won 14 of their previous 17 NEW YORK Wake Forest got back within with a 10-2 run to get within meetings. Rasheed Brokenborough had 50-46 with 6:01 left on a low 32-24 and its defens11 early in VILLANOVA Seles, Novotna, Sanchez­16 points and No. 7 Temple post move by Rafael the second half let the Owls 
Finally playing without pain, Vicario, Zvereva and Coetzer overcame a 16-point deficit to Vidauretta, its last basket of climb back in it. They took Steffi Graf is one match away have already qualified for the beat Wake Forest 59-48 in the the game. Temple went 9-of-12 their first lead at 42-39 with from a berth in the season-end­Chase Championships. championship game of the from the foul line to seal it, 9:10 left on a 3-pointer by ing Chase Championships. Graf. the 1995 Advanta win­Coaches vs. Cancer Classic at while the Demon Deacons con­Wadley. 
"To be able to play through ner, had little trouble in the first Madison Square Garden. tinued to struggle againt the It was Temple's fourth 3­continuously without a break set, then won the second after Neither team had a field goal Owls' matchup zone, being pointer in 15 attempts. a far would be welcomed," said Graf, Fernandez rallied for a 4-3 lead. over the final six minutes, but held scoreless over the game's ery from the opening-round 
the Owls (2-0) came up with final 3 l/2 minutes. win over GPorgetown when
who beat Mary Joe Fernandez Graf relied on a strong back­6-3. 7-6, (7-4) in a first-round hand to hold ofT Fernandez 7-4 the better defensive effort, Mark Karcher and Lynn Wadley made his first five 3s match Wednesday at the in the tiebreaker. holding the Demon Deacons (1-Greer each had 10 points for and finished 5-for-6 from Advanta Championships. Graf is 16-0 against 1) to four points over an 8-Temple, which trailed 30-14 beyond tlw are. When Irina Spirlea lost to Fernandez, dropping only two minute span. with 4:08 left in the first half. In the third-place game, They took a 50-41 lead with Robert O'Kelley, who had 24
fifth-seeded Monica Seles 6-3, 6-sets in 12 years. Illinois beat GeorgNown 65-50 4 in a second-round match "I felt it was really close," Graf 6:43 to play on Quincy points in Wake Forest's open­behind 19 points of freshman Wednesday night, it opened the said. "I broke her a few times, Wadley's driving jumper, the ing-round victory over Illinois, guard Cory Bradford. way for Graf to qualify for the but she kept coming baek. I elite 16-player tournament in knew that I couldn't make a lot 
•wNBA 

New York next week. of mistakes." 
Graf eurrently is 17th. but Said Fernandez, who has would pass Spirlea in the year­played in only eight tournaments long points race by beating this season because of a wrist 
Rage silences Xplosion
Elena Likhovtseva on Thursday. injury: "I felt that I could have Last weekend. Graf returned won the second set. I think she is 
from wrist surgery to capture playing well. She has endured so Leipzig's Sparkassen Cup much. I know how tough it is to Associated Press Tari Phillips led Colorado with 16 points International in her native come back. and rookin forwardAlisa Burras added 13 Germany. "She has always come back PHILADELPHIA points and ninP rd)Ounds. 
"I just have been feeling so and she always seems to get bet­Taj McWilliams sparked a fourth-quarter Xplosion guard Edna Campbell, leading the much better, and I hope I can ter." run to lift the Philadelphia Hage to its second American Bask11tball League in scoring at 25 shake the injuries that have Likhovtseva beat eighth-seed­straight victory, 83-70 Wednesday night over points a game, didn't scorn her first basket slowed my season," she said. ed Sandrihe Testud, who retired the Colorado Xplosion. until 35 seconds into the final quarter and 
McWilliams seored four points during an 8­

Grafs vietory at Leipzig made in the third set due to a knee finished with seven points. her the top money winner in injury. 0 run in a 2:44 span midway through the Consecutive three-point plays by Nagy and quarter that gave the Hage their biggest lead Edwards with two minutes remaining in the
women's tennis with about Graf. recovering from nagging $20.5 million in career earnings, knee and wrist injuries, said she of the game, 73-62. first quarter vaulted Philadelphia to a 20-12 surpassing the $20.3 million by believed the Philadelphia-based Teresa Edwards led the Rage with 21 points lead. 
Martina Navratilova. tournament would be a good and eight assists and McWilliams finished Phillips scored consecutive baskets midway In earlier matches Wednesday, way to get back. with 16 points. Andrea Nagy and Cass Bauer through the second quarter to pull Colorado added 13 points eaeh.
third-seeded Jana Novotna, the "The surface is a little differ­to 31-30. 1996 titlist and 1998 Wimbledon ent and there is always the champion, was upset by Natasha problem of dealing with the time Zvereva of Belarus 6-4, 6-4 and change," Graf said. "It would be fourth-seeded Arantxa Sanchez­great to get to the 
Celebrate afriend's birthday with an 
Vicario of Spain was beaten by Championships, but it just South Africa's Amanda Coetzer means enough to me to be able 6-4, 6-1. Sanchez-Vicario had to keep playing." 
embarrssing photo ad in The Observer. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Nor.u; Dame oHice, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classificds is 3p.m. All classilicds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  SPRING BREAK '99!  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available  TICKETS  ND vs. Navy Football Ticket!! (219)634-1439  Full Color Desktop Publishing Services are now available at The  
Cancun•Nassau· Jamaica•Mazatlan  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  MUST SELl'!  Copy Shop in LaFortune.  
THE COPY SHOP  • Acapulco•Bahamas  with private baths,$80·  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Design, Scanning, Printing and  
LaFortune Student Center  Cruise•Fiorida•south Padre  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  GAM ES.272-6306  need 4 LSU GA's  Copying in COLOR!  
We're Open A Lot!l!  Travel Free and make lots of  campus.  call scott x3381  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight  Cash!Top reps are offered full-time  Toll Road, Exit #107  TICKETMART Inc  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  staff jobs.Lowest price  1-800-418-9487  BUY-SELL-TRADE  4 Sale-2 Navy Tickets, call Julie  Break"  
Sat: Noon -6:00pm  Guaranteed.Call now for details!  Notre Dame Football Tickets  @243-0634  Spring Break Packages are going  
Sun: Noon -Midnight  www.classtravel.com  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­ 258-1111  fast. Check out our Hot Jamaica  
When you need copies,  800/838-6411  rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291:7153.  No student tickets please  Need 4 LSU GAs. Call Pat@ 4­ Packages for the Class of '99!Stop  
we're open!  0680  in at Anthony Travel in the  
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW!  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  LaFortune Student Center and  
Early Spring Break  Cancun. Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999.272­ FOR SALE  WANTED: 2 AEROSMITH  check out the best Spring Break  
Specials! Bahamas Party Cruise!6  S.Padre.14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs.  6306  FOOTBALL TICKETS  TICKETS, NEED GOOD SEATS.  vacations around.Get your deposit  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  Free Parties.America's best prices  271-9412  271-9543  in-by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  
Awesome Beaches.Nightlife!Departs From  & packages. Campus sales reps wanted Earn free trips + cash  FOR SALE  WANTED  chance with an unknown agency or some 1-800 number. limited space  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air.Hotei.Meals &Parties  1.800.SURFS.UP www.studentexpress.com  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526  PERSONAL  available, so book now! Anthony Travel,lnc.  
$339!Panama City Room With  198 MIN. $20  LaFortune Student Center  
Kitchen, 7 Free Parties  CALL 258-4805  ND Ftbl. tix  Leslie Malito,  631-7080  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­ BUY·SELL  If only 1 were to be in your pres­ 
$149!springbreaktravel.com  Workers earn up to $2000+/month  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  273-3911  ence for one moment more,surely  
1-800-678-6386  (w/tips & benefits) .World  Bed box set. not available in  that moment would place me in the  ··ATTENTION LESBIAN. GAY,  
Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­ U.S. call pete at 251·0178.  ND Football Tickets Needed.  midst of Heaven.the place of my  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
Four Flags Antique Mall Holiday  $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517­ AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  deepest love. W.E.B.  STUDENTs·· Original student  
Open House  336-4235  ******•***********************  goup will hold support meeting  
Nov. 14th & 15th  Ext.C55841  ND FOOTBALL TIX  Looking for a unique gift?  TONIGHT. Confidentiality will be  
Prizes Refreshments Special  MICHIGAN-NEW BUFFALO  FOR SALE  respected. Call info line for details  
Sales  ·Interested in Making Money-·  AM 232-2378  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  236-9661.  
218 S. 2nd St.  Large Physical Therapy & Sports  New Condos overlook the vast wet·  PM 288-2726  and we'll create a custom color cal- 
Downtown Niles Ml  Rehab Center looking for students  lands.  endar.  Yeah.  
ILOST & FOUND I  to make Follow-up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and some coputer entry may  Walk to town/beach. Under $190k. Ruth Realtors  Need LSU tix 289-2918  THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center  BOO-VA!!!!  
be required. Flexible hours.  1-888-225-RUTH  2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by  
LOST: GOlD RING BETWEEN  ··call Gerard or Doug Now!••  11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323  Anne-Marie doesn't breathe.  
SIEGFRIED AND BOND HALL  233·5754  ***************************•***  x4709 lv msg  Hey you,  

BEFORE BREAK. MICHAEL @ 4-I still love you for who you are and These computers are demon chil­4862 PHONE CARDS Always buying and selling N D where you're going. dren of technology. I mean, really,
FOR RENT 
$20 buys 282 mins. football tickets. 289-8048 they're nice computers. There's no 
Contact: reason that they shouldn't work, Lost Keys on black Adidas lanyard ··Looking for a place off-campusr· Andrea -634-2584 Parents coming to town and I need Happy Birthday Kevin Hughes, you except somehow, on a day to day with Swiss Army Knife Nice efficiency apartment, Dori • 684-3339 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4-4896. handsome young devil! basis, they are the most terrible call Ryan x 1 038 375/month, utilities included, close MiMi -634-0907 things ever made by the hand of 
to campus call NOW 283-NEED 4 LSU GA TIX. man. 0406ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME 1 ND vs LSU ticket. Face value + CALL 257-1141. Except, being as you're 2_2, you're
WANTED 

FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY postage. not young at all, but in fact old. I DART today. CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 404-784-1128. Need 4 LSU TIX 
Driver Needed Pat@ x0680 What am I going to take? From ND to anywhere in WALK TO CAMPUS 87 Plymouth Horizon. Good cond. But you're young to Doug, and Oregon/Washington after finals. 2-5 BEDROOM $1600 obo. PH ISH TIX 11/13 Cleveland that's all that matters. Any ideas? Snow tires and 4-wheel drive. $200 232-2595 Day-282-2816 Face value 
plus gas Insurance required Eve.-291-7838 Jed @234-7142 I love Heather, yes I do, I love Hi Mom, I know you're reading Shawn at 271-8250 Tom Heather, how about you? these. Say hi to Dad. Happy birth­
day in 2 weeks. :) 


Thursday, November 12, 1998 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
Top teaiDs prepare for big w-eekend 
With winter dosing in. it's limn to turn up tlw heat on tht~ wliPgP football smtson. 
Tho d1asn for tho national rhampionship reaches its tirst crucial stag!' Saturday. with tho top thrt~n tnams TtHJilnsstw,-Kansas Stat!\ and UCLA -f'aci11g top-notch tal­
nnl. 
Tlw VoltznttH!rs (8-0), No. 1 for tho first limn in 42 years. play host to surprising No. 10 Arkansas !R-0). It'll bn thn lirst timn two undefpated SEC tPams havP met this law in thf' season sinc.n Nov. 27. 1971. whnn Alabama b!'at Auburn 31-7. 
Kansas Stall\ (9-0) plays pt!rhaps thn biggest gamn in school history when No. 11 NPbraska (R-2) brings its 21)­ganu• winning strnak ovnr the Wildcats to Manhattan. Kan. 
And tht~n there's No. 3 UCLA ~~~-OJ. whic·h visits Washington (5-41. a danger­ous !Pam at homt~ fpd by quartPrback Brock lluard. Thr past two WP!1ks. the Bruins narrowly escaped against Stanford and Orngon Statt', teams with losing rc·rords. 
;\nyonP f'neling stresst~d out'? 
"l'n•ssurP'?" asks Michigan r.oar.h l.loyd Carr. whoso dnft'IHiing national champions arP poist~d for a Hose Bowl l'l!turn with wins over No. 8 Wis('onsin on Saturday and Ohio Statt~ on Nov. 21. "You ran look at it as a burdon or an opportunity. If you prepare tlw best you ran. you have a good c:hanr.e to handln it. and if you'rn not, you won't be abit~ to." 
Tnnnnsst~o has handlnd things quite nicely after the dPparture of' state hero Peyton Manning. 
So f'ar, thny'vn boon porf'oct, inducting an overtime thriller ovl'l' Florida and Tee Martin's nnar·-pnrfoct passing against South Carolina a few weeks ago. Not evtm the loss of star running back .Jamal LowL'> last month has slowed them down. Tlw dPI'nnse is doing its job. too, allowing just 14.3 points prr game. 
Tlw Wildcats. meanwhile. arn well aware of' what it would mean to beat tho lluskers. All season, K-State has bt'wn criticized for its woak sr.heduln. Now, the Wildcats have a chance to make thnir title statement. 
''We'll havo our hands full," K-Stato coach Bill Snyder said. 
So will Nnbraska, a rarH double-digit undP-rdog. With Bobby Newcombe still injured. !·:ric Crou('h starts at quartnr­bac:k as thn lluskors get to play national title spoilers. 
K-State is led by the versa­tilP Michael Bishop. llis only loss in two seasons at K-Stato was to Nrbraska. 56-26 in '97, and Snyder said that gives his quarterback even more inc<'ntive. 
"lt'i:i become and extremely important game for him. but that's onlv one of tho rca­sons." Snyder said. 
The Observer • SPORTS 
KAT photo Detroit Red Wings star Steve Yzerman moved past Bryan Trottier for 1Oth place on the all-time scoring list last night. His 1 ,425th and 1,426th career points helped lead the Red Wings to a 6-2 victory over St. Louis. 

Yzerman moves into top 10 
Associated Press 
Dh I HOI I 
Steve Yznrman moved past Bryan Trottier. his boyhood hero, f(lr lOth place on the NliL career point list as tho Detroit Hed Wings routed the St. Louis Blues (J-2 Wednesday night. 
Yznnnan's goal and assist gave him 1.426 points. one mort~ than Trottier. whom Yzerman admirnd so much growing up that hn took his jersey numbnr 
19. 
"Bryan ·rrottier was my favorite player," Yzerman said. ";\s soon as lw came into the league I followed his entire carm~r. In some ways I trind to play like he did. I've had the opportunity to meet him, and in my mind he is one of' the best players ever. We all havn role models. and he's mine." 
Yzerman tied Trottier with an assist on Vyac.heslav Kozlov's goal. the last of Detroit's four 
l first-period goals. flo then . moved ahead or his hero in tho last minute of the sncond pnriod when he beat Blues goalie Bir.h Parent to complete an end-to­end rush that gave thr H1\d Wings a 6-0 lead. Joe Kor.ur scored Detroit's lirst two goals and Kirk Maltby had three first-period assists for the Hed Wings, who have won two straight after a four-game losing streak. Kris Draper had a goal and an assist. Kozlov. Kor.ur and Draper had not scored a goal and Maltby had no assists this season before Wednesday. Larry Murphy, who assisted on Yzerman's goal. played in his 
1.411th career game to tie Ilarry I lowell for second place among defensemen. Tim Horton tops the list at 1.446. 
Scott Pellerin and Jim Campbell scored third-period goals for the Blues. 
Detroit goalie Chris Osgood made 26 saves. 
BRAIIIAGLI FAit\IL~ BILLIARD/ 
Student Special--1/2 price {$1.50/hr.) 3-6 pm M~n-fri. 
28 Tables (1, 8, 9. 10, & 12 feetJ 
1202 S. Lafayette (go west on Eddy and go South on Lafaycllc) ph. 233-2323 
.lamin McLennan, who bnat Chicago S-2 Tuesday in his first start since replacing thn injurnd Grant Fuhr in the St. Louis nnt. gave up four goals on I:~ first­period shoL-;. lie was rPplacrd in the second period by Parent, who made I (J saves. 
Fuhr is out six to eight weeks with a strained groin. 
Koc~ur, who hadn't scored a goal in his last 41 rngular-season games since Dec. 31 against St. Louis. ndted two just 2S snc:onds apart to start Dntroit's first-peri­del onslaught. 
Kocur took a drop from Maltby and blasted a shot from inside the St. Louis linn that dribbled between McLennan's legs at 
h: II. Then Kocur turned a dpflp,c·.tt\d pass from Maltby in to anothnr goal at 6:3(J. 
Drapnr. whose assist on Kocur's sm~ond goal was his first point of the season. addnd his first goal at 17:38 when he deflected Maltby's blast from tho left point past McLennan. Kozlov scored his lirst goal of' the snason 49 seconds later when he was loft alono to Mr.Lennan's left and easily convertnd Yzerman's pass from tho lnl't drde. 
McCarty made it 5-0 whnn lw blasted a rebound past Parent on a power play 6:05 into tho second period b!11'ore Yzerman scornd at 19:41. 
Pellerin spoiled Osgood's shutout bid when he batted in ;\I Macinnis' rr.bound S:S7 into tho third, and CampbPII scon~d his lirst goal at 10:35. 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 

UK Wildcats beat Australian all-star· team, 88-7 4 
under suspensions Smith chipped away, and closed the Camara, Prince, Todd Tackett handed down last week. All first half with a 15-5 run that and J.P. Blevins. Tackett hit a three were involved in off­gave them a 42-35 lead. 3-pointer to tie the game at court troubles in the offseason. Four of Kentucky's five 30, and Blevins' long jumper After falling behind in the freshman recruits were on the gave Kentucky its first lead of 

$3 all yoLA cal!1 eat pizza btAffet 
5:30-7:30 pm 2610 Prairie Avenue South Bend 
Brought to you by the Class of 1999 Council www.nd.edu/,_ class99 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON 
Scott Padgett had 19 points and two Kentucky freshman scored in double figures to lead Kentucky to an unexpect­edly tough 88-74 exhibition victory over the Australian All­Stars on Wednesday. 
The Australians scored the first nine points of the game and stayed close most of the way, shooting 11-of-31 from 3­point range. Kentucky didn't pull away until the final 3:30, when it put together a 15-4 run. 
"I think they read the papers," coach Tubby Smith said of his team's perfor­mance. "They thought they could show up and beat this team." 
Jules Camara had 11 points and Tayshaun Prince 10 points and each· freshman had eight rebounds for the Wildcats. Kentucky shot 50 percent from the floor ( 34-of-68) and outre­bounded the Australians 39­32. 
Dominick Young, a Fresno State product now playing pro­fessionally in Australia, led the All-Stars with 20 points, including four 3-pointers, and Australian native Keiron Mitchelhill had 15 points, including three 3-pointers. 
It was the second and last 
exhibition for Kentucky, which 
beat the California All-Stars 
103-74 on Nov. 3. The 
Wildcats, who are ranked 
fourth in the preseason 
Associated Press poll, open the 
season Tuesday at home 
against Eastern Kentucky. 
Kentucky was the final stop 
of a seven-game U.S. tour for 
the Australian All-Stars, who 
were winless after stops at 
Virginia, Maryland, Temple, 
Duke, North Carolina and 
Clemson. 
"I was impressed with their 
play," Australian coach Rex 
Nottage said of the Wildcats. 
"They have a strong attack 
inside and out. .. If they keep 
improving, I'm sure I will be 
watching them on television in 
the Final Four." 
With Kentucky leading 76-72 
and under three minutes 
remaining, Padgett hit two 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Student Tennis Clinic ­Come join the Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Team for Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations at this free clinic on Nov. 16, 6­
7:30 p.m. Bring your own racquet and tennis shoes to the Eck Tennis Pavilion. No advance registration required. For more infor­mation, call RecSports at 1­6100. 

free throws. On the next Australian possession, Kentucky's Saul Smith got into a wrestling match for the ball near halfcourt. From his back, he passed to Padgett, who gunned it to Camara, waiting under the basket. Camara slammed the ball home and m"ade a subsequent free throw, giving the Wildcats an 81-72 lead. 
Kentucky was undermanned, 
' ITHINK THEY READ THE 
PAPERS, THEY 
THOUGHT THEY COULD 
SHOW UP AND BEAT THIS 
TEAM.' 
TUBBY SMITH 
KENTUCKY COACH 

as four players sat out, includ­ing freshman Desmond Allison. Smith said Allison was benched for missing a class. 
Three other Wildcats ­Jamaal Magloire, Ryan Hogan and Myron Anthony -sat out the second of four games 
opening minutes, the Wildcats floor for that 
CLASS OF 1999••• 

Reasons 
to Head to Heartland for 
COLLEGE NIGHT 
,.HURSDAYS 
GNO
NAVY 
FANS ON BOARD 
A Boat-loads of 
'W T-shirts to 
.
giveaway 
4099¢~ 
& 99¢ Cover 
with Student I.D. 
Kick-off the weekend early at South Bend's 
BIGGEST PARTY 
}~· 
222 S. MICHIGAN•SOUTH BEND 
(219) 2 3 4-520 0 www.aceplaces.com/heartland 

sequence: the night, 36-35 with 2:21 left. 

GET IN THE 
THICK 
OF IT. 
Conveniendy located in the heart of 
downtown South Bend, Old Chicago 

Steakhouse has the hottest grill in town, 
serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
p~ime filet mignons, t-bones, and ribeyes 
(as well chicken, burgers and salads, too). 
See why steaks are our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN • SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 


Thursday, November 12, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
I!Htncn as a wholn. 1\llow mo to Jay out !'our ways which Poulin, along with assistant coachns 1\ndy Slaggnr·t and Tom Carroll. has assnmblmf ono of' lhn bnst­roadwd tnams in llw country. 
l;irst. s1wcial tnams havn improvPd by lnaps and bounds in Poulin's time as coach. For a tnam to kill a pnnalty. it must hav11 dd1msivn discipline. To scor·p on tho pow11r play, a team must haV<l an adoquatn ganw plan which must indudn good rlt~cision-making. Puck move­mnnt. strat1~gir positioning, and good shot snlnr.tion are all I'SSOnlial parts of a SUCC!lSSful powm· play. Last season. l.lw Irish rankml li1urth in tho CCII!\ on both tho pownr play ( 17.7 lll'l'l:nntJ and tho pcmalty-kill (X4 pen:1mt). This s1~ason, t.lw Irish arn lif'lh on tlw pnnalty-kill (XX.(J pnrcnnt) and havn l.hn top pownr play intlw lnagun (211.7 pnr­rnnll. Tlw statistics citnd lwm apply only to tlw sPvnn ganws Notn~ llanw has playnd in tlw CCII!\ so far. nxducling llw thn1n playc~d against. non-r.onfc~rnn1:1~ opporwnt.s. Including thosl' ganws, t.lw pow11r play is opl~ml­ing at. a ridic:ulously high dli­l:inncy of :Q.J pnn:nnt. Cmwrally SJll'aking, a 20-pnn:cmt powc1r play is thn goal for most tnarns. !\ tnarn with a 2!i-p11reent pownr play is usually top-notch, but a :w-pnrcPnt pownr play is unheard of. llopnfully. the trnnd will wnt.inw1 this snason. 
Sncor.d, tlw Irish play a morn disriplirwd gamP (in many ways) than l'.vnr bdtlrl'. Thrc\1\ ynars ago, Notrn flamn was onn of tlw most. IH'IIaliznd l!Jams in the (:c :Ill\, wlwreas last Simson llw Irish took l11ss jWIHtlticJs than any otlwr tPam in tlw confnrnncn. Thn Irish am also disciplined on (ipf(•nsP in limns of' Uw way thny [Josition tlwmsdvns. 1\sidn from 1111' gamn against No. I Boston Colll'gl', Ihis Wam has not givnn up rwarly as many odd-man rushc~s as in past ycmrs. 
Mr. Richard Starmann 
forn1er YP of Co1nn1unications at McDonald" s Corporation 
•Ult1ccr 111 Charge ot .Konald McDonald House Chanties tor 20 years 
•Poundmg Hoard Member of }{onalcl 
..·. 'J 
McDonald Children's Charities 
' 
Students and university organizations interested in SRB's JunzpStart Initiative, and particularly the concept of pro-bono social consulting. arc invited to attend. A reception will follow. 
l'onight, Novetnber 12 at 7:30P.M. in the Hesburgh Peace Center Auditorium 
Del'nnsmnnn likn Tyson FmsfJr and Andy Jurkowski nevnr seem to got caught out of position. Hyan Clark and Nathan 13ornga bring a r~ontrolled physical pres­IHlCO to tho ico overy game, which is to say they can general­ly managn to stay out of the pnnalty box while still putting opposing playc1rs into the boards and on tho ien. 
Third, tho Irish have plenty of good two-way players. Their top lscoringllinn of' Aniket Dhadphal11, Ben Simon, and cap­tain Brian Urick consists of play­ers who can kill pnnalties. Also, players likn Dan Carlson and Matt Van Arknl ereato smring ehanens in tho oll'nnsivn zone whiln at the same tinw they nutnage to back dwek Iin tlw dnlimsivn zone!. 
Finally. Poulin's coaching also shows itsolf in the face-oil' eirrle. This is a subtln part of the gamn which is ol"tnn ovnrlooknd by fans. llowcwnr. thn ability to win kny draws is rwndnd to win h!H:kc1y ganws. Bnn Simon is the tnarn's host face-off man. When tho Irish have a l11ad in the third JWriod !which thny havn had in all but one game this season), nspndally when tlw game gets lato and thn draw is in the dnli1nsivn zone, you will see No. S at the dot. Also, froshman Brott llnnning has already nstablished himself as a l'oree in tho facn-oll' circle. 
Enough raving for now. The article's purpos1~ is to familiarize tho entirn campus with this unappreciated tnam which may bP in tho midst of a sp()(:ial sea­son. Hight now, Notro Dame is ranked sixth in Lhn nation, and it's doubtful that the team has rmtdwd its full potential yet. 
This eorning weekend. the Irish takn on the Faleons of Bowling Groen and the hated Michigan Wolverines. Bowling Gmon. fresh off last Friday's upset ol' No. CJ Northern Michigan. should not bn over­lookml. Last snason, Bowling (;rnnn struggled with injuries on their way to a disappointing 6­21-:{ CCII!\ mark. linishing in last placo. llownver. their top 
USA Today/ American Hockey Magazine Poll 

4-0-1
1. 
Boston College 

2. 
North Dakota 

3. 
Colorado College 

4. 
Maine 

5. 
Michigan State 

6. 
Notre Dame 

7. 
Michigan 

8. 
New Hampshire 

9. 
Northern Michigan 

10. 
Denver 


5-0-0
7-0-0
5-0-0
5-0-2
7-1-1
5-2-0
5-1-0
8-2-0
players are back this season, and their good start makes this an interesting team to watch on Friday night (see tomorrow's article for more). Saturday, just after Notre Dame has moved to 8-1 on the football season, the hockey team will square ofT against Michigan at the Joyce Center in a highly anticipated CCII!\ game. To explain the importance of"ihis matchup, them is some history which I must relate to you first. 
Last January, an underrated Notre Dame squad went to Ann Arbor to face nationally-ranked Michigan in Yost Arena. After taking a 4-1 lead into the final period of play, Michigan coach Red Berensen showed no respect for the Irish offensive attaek by taking out starting goaltender (and NCAA record­holder for wins) Marty Turco in favor of backup Greg Malieke. What ensued was a nightmarish third period for the Wolverines, in whic:h Notre Dame managed 
6-1-0 
to tie the score with just over ten minutes to play. 
The Irish had apparently won the game when Steve Noble put the puck past Malicke with 20 seconds remaining. However, the referee had blown the play dead, thinking Malicke had con­trol. The game was won in over­time by Michigan as Greg Crozier notched a hat trick against the snake-bitten Irish. 
In last year's CCHA playoiTs, Notre Dame faced Michigan in three games, all in Ann Arbor. After handing Michigan just the school's second home playoiT loss with a first game drubbing, the Irish had them on the ropes once again in game two. With . just over two minutes to play, Aniket Dhadphale thought he won the game with a shot that managed to sneak under the crossbar and in. The referee pointed to the goal line, signal­ing a goal, but he was overruled by the linesman, who claimed the net was off its pegs. Michigan 
went on to win this one as well, in the fifth-longest CCI lA playotl' game of all time. 
This weekend's games aro the first big hockey games here in a long time. When you come to root on the Irish, here arc some players to watch: II' you like big hits and physical play, watch defensemen Ryan Clark (17) and Nathan Borega (2), as well as right wing Joe Dusbabek (33). If you come to see otl'ensive snipers, watch for Ben Simon 
fri~~1 ~ovrm~rr 1~,1~~~ n:oo ~.m. (OIIIt 0~ ~n~ \\11~ ~~ IU(~ ~~imt ~~~! M«t ~trot ~~~ium Junnd ro 1rn~ off "l~ f~Min'lri!~" 
__./\_\,\ 
94 I 90 2 84 3 70 4 58 5 47 7 27 9 26 8 21 9 15 NR 
(8), Brian Urick (15), Aniket Dhadphale (9), and freshman David Inman (12), who has shown himself to have arguably the best wrist shot on the team. When Notre Dame goes on the power play, watch for defense­man Benoit Cotnoir's (25) slap­shot, while blue-collar players like Matt Van Arkel (30), Dan Carlson (26) and Dhadphale clean up by going hard to the net. !\!so, wateh for Simon and freshman Brett Henning (11) in the face-oil' circle. If you are one of those fans who appreciates the unsung hero, watch for Tyson Fraser (6) when an opposing forward goes one-on­one with him and ultimately fails to get a shot oil 
If you cannot manage to get into either game because it is already sold out, turn on 103.1 FM to follow along with Bob Nagle and Paul Shahenn as they call thn action live. For thoso of you who are familiar with hock­ey broadeasts. you will quiekly notice how much Shaheen's voice n1sernblos that of famous hockey announcer Mike Emerick, enrtainly a flattering comparison. 
So hopefully, al'tnr this week­end's games, this campus will be bntter acquainted with the best team on campus no one leur­rnntly] knows about. Maybe sometime latnr this year, Notrn Dame will suddenly become a hockey campus, as we follow this talented team all the way to the NCAA Tournament. 

-~"'!-·--!"~---:-·---·:~-'!'~:­

page 20 Thursday, November 12, 1998 
•NBA 

Jordan, NBA players to host exhibition in Vegas 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Michael Jordan's next basket­ball game could occur the first weekend of December in an exhibition that would be held in Las Vegas, players' union direc­tor Billy Hunter said Wednesday. 
"Whether or not (Jordan) will play won't be known until the last moment. If he doesn't play, he'll coach. But he'II be physi­cally present," Hunter said after the union's negotiating commit­tee and sevr,ral team player representatives met for about 5 1/2 hours to discuss the lockout. 
No new negotiations are scheduled, although Hunter said he would call commissioner David Stern on Wednesday night or Thursday to gauge whether the sides want to sit down at the negotiating table again. 
"He has indicated that he does have another proposal. When he puts it out there remains to be seen," Hunter said. "I think what he wants to do is sweat our players a little more and see whether there's any inclination on our part to want to submit." 
There have been no discus­sions since talks broke off Friday. and season cannot start until mid-December at the earli­est. 

If another three weeks go by without an agreement, the sea­T son probably won't start until 
1999. 
"Fans may be somewhat dis­heartened at this moment, but I don't think the fans are turned off to the point that we can't regain their support," Hunter said. "It's sort of crunch time. Sooner or later the (owners) will have to decide that it's time to get a deal." 
In the meantime, agents David Falk, Arn Tellem and Eric Fleisher are trying to organize an exhibition game in Las Vegas for the first weekend of December. 
Hunter said the Showtime cable network has expressed interest in televising the game. A spokeswoman for Showtime had no comment. 
Hunter said the game might be a matchup between two of the three Dream Teams that competed in the 1992 and 1996 Olympics and the 1994 World 

Notre Dame Film, Television, and 
• 
along flight home, the plane goesdoWn, but her trip is just beginning 


Theatre presents 

by Christina Gorman 
Directed by Siiri Scott 
Wednesday, November 18  7:30p.m.  
Thursday, November 19  7:30p.m.  
Friday, November 20  7:30p.m.  
Saturday, November 21  7:30p.m.  
Sunday, November 22  2:30p.m.  

Playing atWashington Hall Reserved Seats -$9 Senior Citizens -$8 All Students-$6 
Tickets are available at the Lafortune Student Center Ticket Office. MasterCard and Visa orders call 631-8128. 
Championships. 
But it would be impossible to put the original Dream Team back together since Magic Johnson and Larry Bird are now part of management ­Johnson as a part-owner of the Lakers and Bird as the coach of the Indiana Pacers. Also, Christian Laettner ruptured his Achilles' tendon last summer and could not play, and Clyde Drexler will be busy coaching the University of Houston bas­ketball team. 
"Our players are interested in keeping themselves busy, and we think that one day to do it is have some sort of an exhibition competition," Hunter said. "The proceeds would go to the (union)." 
During Wednesday's meeting, discussions focused mainly on where the sides stand and how to reach a compromise. 
Owners, general managers and coaches have been contact­ingplayers in recent days to dis­cuss the owners' proposal. 
"Maybe (having the teams speak to the players) is a last ditch effort before they really sit down at the table and try to get a deal," Hunter said. 
The sides have already dis­cussed the framework for a deal in which a "luxury tax" would be imposed for two or three years on owners who sign play­ers to lucrative contracts, after which an "escrow tax" could be withheld from players' pay­checks to ensure that the per­centage of revenues devoted to salaries drops to an agreed­upon level. 
Owners want a maximum 
salary of about $8 million to $12 
million. The luxury tax pro­
posed by the players for con­
tracts worth more than $15 mil­
lion would be intended to have 
thA same effect. 
ADOPTION 
ABC'S, 1,2,3'S, AND CLIMBING TREES. CARING COUPLE IS SEEKING A BABY TO LOVE & CHERISH. LET US HELP YOU THROUGH THIS DIFFI­CULT TIME. EXPENSES PAID. 
Joan & Bill-1-800-311-7663 
an(i. . •· ...•...·. . .··· . School, and Mike .Monserez; a 6·5 guard from Moeller High School and Cincinnati. Ohio, have signed National Letters of Intent to enroll at the University of Notre Dariw next fall and play for head coach John MacLeod's basketball team. Carroll averaged 23.6 points per game as a junior in high school and added 8.5 rebounds, 6;8 assists and 1.8 blcoks per game. He is ranked No. 30 in the country among.high school seniors by 

IN THE REAL WORLD 
We understand that your goals for graduate school are more than academic. 
While you expect outstand­ing scholarship, you also de­mand a program that will pre­pare you to thrive in a world of very real and very rapid change. 
A graduate degree from the University of Michigan School of 

Information provides the training . you'll need to lead the future of Sch_ool ~f lnfor~~t1on information systems and services Unrversrty of Mrchrgan in every sector of society. 734.763.2285 In our dynamic, two-year master's 

Graduate Studies in Information www.si.umich.edu 
INFOR ATION 
AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL 
AND ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE PRESENT: 
DEATH PENALTY FORUM 
p 
., ~ ~ 
I t y 
? 


all-area ·for his first 
high school and was named the 1988 state pllly.er · of the year in Pennsylvania. 
In the summer of 1998, Carroll was a member of the USA Basketball men's junior 
.world championship qualify­ing team, which won the gold medal at the COPABA junior world championship qualify­ing tournament. Carroll aver­aged 6.5 points per game in the tournament and 2.0 rebounds. 
Monserez led Moeller to an 

program, students from diverse academic backgrounds like hu­manities, computer science, social sciences, and math gain direct access to our world­class faculty and facilities. Challenging intt.. nships in leading corporate and non­profit organizations help you tai­lor your studies with practical 
expertise for the digital age. And our innovative doctoral program prepares you for a re­search career in this emerging discipline. 
18-4 reocrd in his junior year and the team finished ninth in the Associated Press Ohio Division I poll after losing in the sectional finals. Monserez led the team with 12 points per game as a total of five Moeller players averaged in double figures. Monserez also averaged 7.5 assists per game, shot 38.5 percent from the three-point distance and 78 percent from the foul line. 
He was named firs team all­Southwestern Ohio by the AP, first team all-city by the Cincinnati Enquirer and co­player of the year in the Greater Catholic League of Cincinnati and Dayton. 
'hursday, November 12, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 
·­

position of the Blessed acrament 
onday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00pm, . Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall days, 12 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel,· 
silica of the Sacred Heart 
hman Retreat #19 
rning to Talk About Race etreat 
iday-Saturday, November 13-14, ndenwood 
TC Freshman Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, November 13-14, Five Pines 
Living Rosary, sponsored by North Quad Liturgical & Service Commissioners All are Welcome! 
Saturday, November 14, 11:00 am, Stonehenge (Field House Mall) Rain LQC;;l_ti.Qn~ ~r~en·P~ll.lips.,Ch.apel. 
RCIA Retreat 
Sunday, November 15, 8:00 am-6:00 pm, St. Joe Hall 
Folk Choir Concert at the Michigan City State Prison 
Sunday, November 15 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, November 17, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Part 7 of a Seven-Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Wisdom by Ms. Chandra Johnson 
THIRTY-THIRD SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, November 1.4 Mass 
5:00p.m. Rev. Paul V. Kollman, C.S.C. 
Sunday, November 1.5 Mass 
10:00 a.m. Rev. William A. Wack, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. Thomas P. Doyle, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Malachi 3:19-20 
2nd Reading 2 Thessalonians 3:7-12 Gospel Luke 2:5-19 
It's a question we occasionally ask ourselves: what does it matter that I am here? As I pose the question, I don't mean in a strictly existential sense. Oh no; that's too big for me to take on. leave that for the resident philosophers to tackle. My question asks simply: what does it matter that I am here, here at Notre Dame, as opposed to just about anywhere else that I might otherwise be? What difference does it make? Please God, it makes some difference. 
It isn't a question only for Seniors who have to figure out who they are and what they want. Ultimately, it's a question that each of us must answer for ourselves. It is for all of us, all of the time. It's a question about people and relationships, about faith, and about our­selves. It's a question that will have a different answer for each one who attempts a response. The only right answer for you is your own. The only wrong answer is not to take up the question. There are all kinds of things to think about. All sorts of things to reflect upon. Let's consider a few. 
Who am I for having been here as long as I have? Am I a bet­ter friend to my friends than I was before I came to Notre Dame? To my parents? Do the people around me challenge me to be more than 1 would otherwise be? Do I think differently? For all the work I've done, am I any smarter at all? Do I care more now about things that I might never have before considered? Do I attend to the needs of others? What does service mean in my life? Do I do any? Should I? What about faith? Do I really have any-in anything? Do I pray? Am I any more faithful to the God in whom I profess faith than I was before I arrived? Do I even believe what I say I believe? Am I any more moral, or disciplined, or mature? Am I, in the end, a better man, or a better woman, for having come to this place? 
I'm telling you, there is no better time than right now to get at some of these questions. Every day that we fail to address the most pressing and important questions of our life is a missed opportunity. Today, this very day, is the day during which we can stop, reflect and pray, on who it is that we are, and who we want to be, and on who we're called to be. Is it enough to believe that God loves us or that we're exactly where God would have us be in this moment? I don't know, even as I believe it is somehow true. But even with that, I don't believe that we can content ourselves to stay where we are. Our being here is a great privilege and not to take advantage of it, not to revel in it, could later prove to be one of the greatest regrets of our lives. There is much to do on the way to becoming who we are meant to be. There are relationships to attend to-with others and with God. There are studies to pursue. There are changes that need to be made in our lives. There is a Kingdom to build. 
In my work in Campus Ministry I have had the great privilege of meeting a whole variety of people from across this campus... with students particularly, but with staff and faculty and administrators as well. We are not all so different really. We all struggle in much the same way to understand ourselves in relation to our world, and to our God. Whether it be in our respective families, or residence hall communities, in our intimate relationships with others or with God, we all struggle with the challenge of becoming all that God intends us to be, all that we want to be. Let us not shrink from it. 
Please God, we won't look back years from now and wonder why we didn't spend more time at the Grotto; or delight, when we could, in the company of friends; or take more chances. Let it not be said of us that we avoided the big questions or that we failed to examine the limits of all that we could be while we were at Notre Dame. Just how we do that is going to be different for each us... but I can tell you, it's about God, and about faith, and about relation­ships. It's about talking to one another about the things that matter, and about love and forgiveness, of ourselves and of others. The value of your experience at Notre Dame, in the end, will not be mea­Slued by your personal popularity, or by how much you can drink on a particular weekend night, or even by your academic success. It will ultimately be measured by how well you have learned to love. 
;. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

~-·--·~--··-··---------~-----------------~~-~­
-------------... -.... -----------------------------­

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL

-
Tigers sign Palmer to $36 million contract 
Associated Press 
DETHOIT 
The Detroit Tigers, seeking to build a contender as they pre­pare to move into a new stadi­um in 2000, signed Dean Palmer to a $36 million, five­year contract on Wednesday. 
Tigers general manager Randy Smith said the signing should send a message to fans and to other teams that the Tigers, who have posted five straight losing seasons for the first time in their history, are ready to compete again. 
"We identified three needs after the season that needed to be addressed; we needed a run­producing bat, a veteran catch­er and pitching," Smith said. "We've answered one of those needs, and we're not packing up now and heading home." 
He said signing Palmer, Detroit's first major free agent addition in years. would make it easier for the Tigers to sign a pitcher and mentioned Todd Stottlemyre as a possibility. 
"For someone like Stottlemyre to show us consideration. we have to show we're serious," he said. 
lie said the signing of Palmer, coupled with the new stadium, will make Detroit more attrac­tive to free agents. 
"You look at the Cleveland situation before their new ball­park, it wasn't a place that was on the top of most ballplayers' list to play. But now it is," he said. "I think that will happen for us." 
Palmer said it made a differ­ence for him. "I liked the idea of being with 

the team moving into a new sta­dium," he said. 
Palmer, who turns 30 next month. hit .278 this year for Kansas City, leading the Royals in both homers (34) and RBls (119). He was acquired by Kansas City from Texas on July 25, 1997, for Tom Goodwin. 
Palmer said he signed with Detroit over Tampa Bay because "it felt like the right fit for me." 
"I looked at the talent they have on the field and there's some great talent. With a cou­ple more additions, they will be ready go contend," Palmer said. 
Palmer added that Smith indi­cated that the Tigers arc ready to make those additions. 
The signing fit in with the plan the Tigers began three years ago to go with young players to begin building a nucleus. Smith said the nucleus is in place and it's time to fill holes. 
The Tigers were last in the AL Central this season at 65-97, 24 games behind first-place Cleveland. 
Palmer, who made $5.75 mil­lion this season, turned down a $4.75 million player option and became a free agent following the World Series. 
The Tigers are giving him a $10 million signing bonus that is payable over five years, $3 million in 1999, $5 million in 2000, $5.5 million in 20()1, $6 million in 2002 and $6.5 million in 2003. 
Smith said that when the Tigers heard that Tampa had made a similar offer, the Tigers agreed to guarantee the fifth year. The contract also includes 

Give your child the Trinity School Advantage 
Caring Faculty. 
Core Curriculum. 
Blue Ribbon 
Excellence Award. 
High S.A.T. Scores. 
Christian Environment. 
Successful Graduates. 
Serving Students 
in Grades 7-12. 
107 S. Greenlawn, South Bend 
(Comer Jefferson and Greenlawn) 
287·5590 
a no-trade clause for three opens. years. Palmer said he was impressed Smith said the deal came by the fact the Tigers made an 
together partly because Palmer offer one minute after midnight 
was willing to take less the first Friday. 
season. before the new stadium Detroit also made an offer to 

Ken Caminiti, another free­agent third baseman, but Smith said he told the Tigers he wasn't ready to make a quick decision so they turned their attention toward PalmQ.r_._ 
What is the crime of silence? 

Come and learn more as Nationally Recognized Speaker 

Katie Koestner 
gives her powerful account of her experience with sexual assault: NO-YES 
Monday, November 16 At 7:00pm Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Sponsored by Campus Alliance for Rape Elimination 
Gender Studies Women's Resource Center University Counseling Center Residence Life Sex Offense Services of Madison Center Women's Legal Forum Notre Dame Security 

We're Here for You 
Have lunch or breaks at one of these convenient locations 
~---*~
COBA 
Cmnnwn. Stock Sandwich Co. Lower level Open 7:00a.m.-3:00p.m. 
O'Shaughnessy 

ltluldicks  
First floor  
Open 7:00a.m.  -5:00p.m.  
Bond Hall  
Cafe Poche  
First floor  
Open 8:00a.m.  -2:00p.m.  

Serving delicious soup, sandwiches, daily hot lunch specials, gourmet coffee, freshly-baked pastries, yogurt, soda, juices, fresh fruit 
Open Monday · Friday to all statf, students. faculty and visitors 

Thursday, November 12, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 23 
-~------, 
_.I 


student union HAPPENINGS 

STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Lethal Weapon 4 11/12. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 11/13. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 11/14. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1 030PM. 
Acoustlcafe: SnoCone Night 11/12. Thursday. Lafortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. AfterHours 11/13. Friday. Reekers. 1230AM-0330AM. Recker's Rock Acousticafe. 11/16. Monday. Reekers. 0800PM-1200AM. Ethics In Government: Yesterday, Today, and Tomorrow. 11 /17. Tuesday. 101 DeBartolo. 0730PM. SLF Coffeehouse 11/18. Wednesday. Reekers. 0900PM. 
HPC (HALL PRESIDENTS' COUNCIL) 
BP Formal. St.Ed's Formal. Alumni Formal. 
11/13. Friday. McGlinn SVR. 11/13. Friday. Welsh SVR. 11/14. Saturday. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL) 
Native American Heritage Week. 11 /15. Sunday. Marketing Club: Donald Dixon from Cox Enterprises. 11/16. Monday. 161 COBA. 0500PM-0600PM. Pre-Physical Therapy Club: Fran MacDonald from MacDonald Physical Therapy and Sports Rehab. 11/16. Monday. 117 Hagga.r 0700PM. General Habitat Meeting 11/17. Tuesday. CSC. 0630PM. 
Miscellaneous/Campus Wide 
Spring 1999 Registration/DART begins. 11/12. Thursday. Dept. of Music Carolyn Plummer, violinist. 11/15. Sunday. Annenburg Auditorium(Snite). 0200PM. $3-$10. Dept. of Music: Robert Marshall. 11/16. Monday. 124 Crowley Hall of Music. 0430PM. Dept of Music: Schola Musicorum. 11/18. Wednesday. Basilica. 0930PM. 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
Kellogg Institute Speaker, Catherine Boone, Dept. of Political Science. 11/12. Thursday. C-103 HCIS. 0415PM. Kellogg Institute Speaker, Robin Kirk, Human Rights Watch Discussion. 11/13. Friday. 135 CCHR (Law School). 1230PM. Brown bag lunch provided. Student Government Faculty-Student Lunch. 11/17. Tuesday. SOH. 1200PM-0100PM. Kellogg Institute Speaker, Christopher Welna, Kellogg lnst. and Dept. of Govt. 11/17. Tuesday. C-103 HCIS. 1230PM. Kellogg lnst. Film: "Tango Bar" 11/17. Tuesday. HCIS Auditorium. 0700PM. Finance Department Faculty-Student Lunch. 11/18. Wednesday. SOH. 1200PM-0100PM. 
Saferide. 631-9888. 11/12. Thursday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0200AM. 11/13. Friday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 11/14. Saturday. Where the Action Is. 1OOOPM-0300AM. 

0 
Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos.
• 

[Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune) 
34567890123456789012345678901234567890123456789012345678901234567 
\.·-. ...............................................-....---.................,.......... __.......-...................................... ~., ................~ 
I 
~ 
I I I I I I I I 
I 
~ 
I I I I I I I 
~ 
I 
' 
I I 
I I 
I I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
~~~--~~-~---~----~~---------~~-~ 
~ ~ 
I I 
~ page 24 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, November 12, 1998 
I I 
I
I._ 
I I ~ 
I I f 
' 
I I I ~ 
I 
I 
I 
! I 
I I 
! 
I 

Alliance for Catholic Education 
TIRED OF GETTING HOMEWORK? 
THEN GIVE SOME! 

Be ateacher and experience: 
•
Master-level Teacher Preparation 

• 
Community Life 

•
Spiritual Development 


• 
Informational meetin[: 
,. Thursday, November 12th, 7:00 pm in the Hesbur[h Library Auditorium. 
~"' 
Any Uuestions? Call the ACE Office at 631-7052. 
.,......,..._._,.~ 

• 

Thunday, November 12, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
Baske
-t~b:--a~~~~~~chh.~~~r~.k-i~n~t~~~~tl~le~g~a=m~e~u~n~t~illt~h~e~~M~c~(~;r~a~w~.~.. W~e~w~e~r~ejf~o~r~c~in~g~~~--------.-,_._._._n.-.~==~Z3.-.-.--.~~ii 14-minute mark. led the scor-them to work it around the 
-
The Observer/Jeff Hsu UCLA Irish guard Danielle Green drives to the hoop during last evening's game 
versus a team of Estonian players. Her rebounding was key to the win . 

.. 
LAST CHANCE for Urban Plunge Applications 
Mobile, AL

Albany, NY 
New Orleans, LA

Albuquerque, NM 
SITES AVAILABLE: New York, NY
Atlanta, GA 
Oakland, CA

Boston/Dorchester 
Peoria, IL

Chicago, IL 
Philadelphia, PA 

Cincinnati, OH 
Pittsburgh, PA 

Dallas, TX 
Portland, OR

Gary, IN 
Rochester, NY

Grand Rapids, MI 
Sacramento, CA

Honolulu, HI 
San Antonio, TX

Indianapolis, IN 
South Bend, IN

Kansas City, KS 
St. Louis, MO

Kansas City, MO 
St. Petersburg, FL

Miliwaukee, WI 
Vero Beach, FL

Minneapo.lis, MN 
Washington, D.C. 

ALL LATE URBAN PLUNGE APPLICATIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED BY FRIDAY, NOV. 13 BY 4 PM. 

continued from page 24 
Thn Irish got tlw job done practieally on ddm1s1~ alone, k1~eping tlw Estonian t11am on thn outside pushing for its points. SophornorP center Huth Hil11y along with Kelley Siemon and I>anielle Gnwn anchored t.lw Irish defnnst~.which gath­ered all hut t.hrPe of the possi­ble rnbounds that Estonia put upin the first half. llmul coach MulTnt Md;raw's dominating ddensn gave tlwtnam all they rwed!HI to win the game, on both sides of the court. 
"We played fairly well defen­sively," slw said. "Tiwy had a dil'f'1~nmt ofTensn though. They rnally w11nm't a power t11am, they shot a lot ol'jumpers." 
Tlw outsid1~ shots began to g~~ t t h n right b o u n r n for Estonia as thn pnriodeanw to a clos1~, lnd by forwards Mardin c;ruthal and Margit Konno. But as Eslonia lwgan to warm­up with tlw rlosP of tlw st~eond hall'. NotrP I>anw just got hot­tnr. liricka llanl' , who didn't ing with 15. ller six offensive boards also kept the Irish fir­ing away. The freshman guard has already made a large impact ofT the bench, scoring 11 in Notre Dame's first exhi­bition game against Visby­Sweden and her team-leading 19 points Wednesday night. 
"We knew she would play well off the bench," comment­ed Mc<;raw on theearly contri­lmtions by Haney for the Irish. "She also rebounded well. I was really impressed with that." 
The second half proved no dif'1'1mmt as the Irish contimwd to put their seal on the game. Again, Notm Dame dominated on both sidns of the court, leaving Estonia in foul trouble on defense and once again shooting from the outside on of'fense. Notre Dame clamped down in Uw second hall', as they did not allow any Estonian points from inside the paint in tlw final 20 min­utes. 
"Wn WPnt to more of a con­tained explainnd 
perimeter more." In doing so, Estonia faced an 
'WE PLAYED FAIRLY WELL DEFENSIVELY, 
THEY HAD A DIFFERENT 
OFFENSE THOUGH. THEY 
REALLY WEREN'T A POWER 
TEAM. THEY SHOT A LOT OF 
JUMPERS.' 
MuFFET McGRAw 
WOMEN'S BASKETBALL COACH 
easier time shooting three pointers thanl'ield goals. They shot 4 for 12 in the second from three-point range yet only (J for 25 inside that zone. 
The outside shooting eased the Irish foul trouble, especial­ly Tromundemeath the basket. Both Hiley and Siemon, who lnd the team with sixdefnnsive boards apiece, eaeh had only one foul in the contest. 
Estonia's game plan rubbed ofT on the Irish in the dosing period ,especially when captain Shnila McMillen re-entered the lirwup with 11:50lel't in the game. She sunk four three­pointers and added two from tlw foul line. 
McMillen's last trey was a buzzer-beatP.r from half court tha:t gave the Irish a 51-point lnad, their largest of the night. 
Next Ganie: Saturday vs. 


page 26 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, November 12, 1998 
-


Co-wboys prepare for Phoenix 
Associated Press 
IHVING 
The Dallas Cowboys know what's at stake Sunday in Arizona: Win and virtually lock up the NFC East title; lose and they're tied for the division lead. 
If the Cowboys (6-3) beat the Cardinals (5-4), they'll hold a two-game lead with six to play. Arizona actually would need to be three games better than Dallas the rest of the way to win the NFC East because the Cowboys would have the edge in all tiebreakers. 
"This is a great chance for us to create separation in our division race," defensive tackle Chad Hennings said Wednesday. 
A loss wouldn't devastate Dallas' playoff chances, but it would break up a lot of momentum. 
The Cowboys are seeking their first three-game winning streak since 1996, and a victo· ry would be their fifth in six weeks. That would put them closer to the big streak coach Chan Gailey repeatedly says a 

came the last time the .teams "And a hard loss for us." 
team must have in order to be met in Sun Devil Stadium, "That is a motivation for us," championship material. 

when the Cardinals rallied Hennings said. "We realize we"This is the biggest challenge from a 22-7 deficit to win 25-can't lei that happen again.
we've had this year," Gailey 

22 in overtime lastSeptember. When we have opportunities,said. ONo doubt about it." 
Some fans celebrated by tear­we've got to take advantage ofThe Cowboys beat the ing down the goal posts,· some­them."
Cardinals 38-1 0 in the season thing usually seen only at col­The desert has been the siteopener, extending their domi­lege games. of close games in this seriesnance in the series to 15 victo­"It was a big win for them," since the Cardinals movedries in 16 meetings. The lone safety Darren Woodson said. there in 1988.

Arizona victory in that span 


Weaver 
continued from page 1 
ing time, but quickly found out he could hold his own with the other linmnen. 
"In all honesty, I just wanted to be on the travel team," said Weaver, "I had no thought of starting whatsoever. I just had this image in my mind that everybody's so much strongm· and faster but once I got hnre I felt I could compete." 
The close-knit atmosphere of this team has been a crucial fac­tor in its success. The Irish pos­sess tremendous leaders who are willing to put team goals ahead of personal achievement. Weaver has felt this h~adership amongst his fellow defensive linemen. 
"They've helped me a lot," said Weaver when talking about the other defensive linemen. "When I came in the summer, it was me, Lamont (Bryant) and Jason Ching playing the five tPdmique and even when they found I was going to start, there was no ani­mosity. All they did was lwlp mn and t~ey helped my ganw so much. 

Defensive end and rush out­side linebacker coach Charlie Strong has seen the progress of his prized dnfensivn end and credits a lot of his success to his athleticism. 
"lin's not tlw biggest guy but lw plays with good t<~chnique and he has so much ability," said Strong. "lin was a running back in high school, so whnn you takn a big guy like him playing run­ning back and you arn able to put him on the defensive front. you know that he's got tho speed and quickness." 
Tho future looks bright for the (J-foot-3, 250 pounder. With his maturity he should be a force at defensive end for the next three years, and Coaeh Strong has high hopes for his talented fresh­man. 
"If a young man starts as a freshman, you always think tlwrn's gn~at expectations for him," said Strong, "The only thing he can do is gl't biggPr. strong1~r and just work to g1~l bnttnr and better." 
Yvonne Rainer 
Out of a Comer of the Sixties 
Ra1ner is the internationally acclaimed chor(lographer Md filmmaker who was mstrumentaltn the creation ot performance art in the 1960s 
Frld,.y, November 13 Center for Continuing Education 
7:00 
Rslner g1ves a multimedia talk on her transition from dance and performance to lilm A. recept1on al the Monis Inn follows 
Saturday, November 14 242 O'Shaughnessy 
10:00 am 
A Film about a Woman Who w11l be Introduced and l)(;ll:!efled by the filmmaker. fOllowed by a lree h.mcheon 
Sponsored by the Department of F1tm. Tete\IISicn, and lhealte and the Program in Gender Studies Made possible by a gran! from the Boehnen Fund for E)(cellence in the Arts_ Free and Open to the public For directions lo the Un•verSIIy of Notre Dame and rcr more tnformatron. call219-631-7054 



Thusday, November 12, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 27 
LOOKING T 1-fROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

FOXTROT 
HI, AHOY, IT'S ME. I'M OUT RoGER, 8ACI< ON liiE SPEAI< UP. 
MoB't'TEL. I CAN'T 
_s-HEAR lOU. 
DILBERT 
I P..t-'\ "fOUR. I'ING! e,ow ~£~ORE ME 
CROSSWORD 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
the Way" 11 It's inspired 

12 Football 32 Unfair 44 Mr. Chips 51 Former Fords Hall-of-Farner employers portrayer, 1969 
52 They fit in 

Blount 33 Word after over 45 Flat dweller 
sockets 13Wing or clover 47 Perform lousily 
53 Tube top 19 Writer de 34Family 48 Freud 

54 Take credit? 

Beauvoir et al. providers? contemporary 
Got Sports?

21 See 46-Across 49 Many teamsters 55 Earth orbiter 
35 "Gill" 24 Maintain 
36 Piano pro 25 Former part of 
37 Move to the side Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
cal11-4543
Portuguese 38 Soda __ are available by touch-tone phone: India 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 

26 Inside no. 

41 Hard to open Annual subscriptions are available for the 28 Blue-ribbon 
43 Contributor of best of Sunday crosswords from the last 29 Unhurried gait big bucks 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Women's

ens 
Bas etball 
Basketball 
Fri., Nov. 13th 
Sat., Nov. 14th 7:30pm 
1:OOpm vs. Miami (OH) 
vs. UCLA Sun., Nov. 15th 
FREE frisbees for first 500 fans in 2:00pm7:00pm Gate 10 
vs. Yale 
"America's Best 
First 1000 fans receive Notre Dame Basketball 

Frisbee Dogs" FREE 
"..
Schedule Magnet 
..-­


CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Grace Kelly, Nadia Comaneci, Neil Young, Tonya Harding 
Happy Birthday: Keep in mind that vou don't have to take drastic m~as.ures this vear in order to make your point. Be 'direct and blunt about the way you feel. and you will find it much easier to get on with the impor­tant things in life. You are clever enough to know that compromise may be necessary in order to reach your Jspirations. Your numbers: 7, 10, 19, 28, 37, 46 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Sud­den romantic encounters will set your head spinning. Don't jump too quick­
BILL AMEND 
ly. Your energetic persona will enable you to be the center of attention at social gatherings. 000

I SAID I'M HoNE'(, YoU'LL 
TAIJRUS (April 20-May 20): Take 
HAVE To 
advantage of the opportunities that present themselves. You will be in a 
OUT BACK I STILL 

ON THE CAN'T SPEAK uP. ~ 
better position if you discuss your
MoBYTEL.' HEAR 
1 
E 
8 
0
.. 
@J 
.. ~ 
objectives with authority figures. 
_s--rou. 
Direct your energy wisely. 00000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Get­ting together with family and friends will be conducive to meeting new romantic partners. You will be in the mood for love and your outgoing nature will open doors that lead to new a\'enues. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You will have an abundance of energy. Immerse yourself in work-related projects where you will receive the biggest payback. You can gain popu­larity with both your superiors and 
SCOTT ADAMS 
vour co-workers. 0000 
· LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Put your 
energy into self-improvement 
= . u 
programs. Competitive games will

Tl-\15 Wl\S 1\ TE.ST 
IF THI5 WERE. A 
be your forte. You can easily im­
.

OF T\-\E EM£.1\(:,(t\lC.Y 
press others with your generous
u 
REAL 1-\0NA.RC\-\Y) 
nature. Travel will promote romantic
~

MONARCH 5Y5TE.M. 
connections. 000
'YOU WOULD
"' 
• OF INTEREST 
'Election 1998'-The Lessons-'Election 1998', an interactive video conference with E.J Dionne Jr., Cokie Roberts. and Mark Shields will take place tonight at 7:30p.m. in DeBartolo 141. 
'Christmas Around the World' Meeting -Saint Mary's Student Activities Board is sponsoring 
58 Lots of bucks 
'Christmas Around the World' Nov. 30. If you would 
59 Some story 
like to participate, attend an informational meeting 
&o Brisk 
today in Haggar Parlor at 8 p.m. Contact Tysus 

&1 Lith. and Azer., 
Jackson at X4357 for more information. 
once 
Saint Mary's College Fall Choir Concert -The Saint 

62 Suffix with huck 
Mary's College Women's Choir and the Saint Mary's 
College·Notre Dame Collegiate Choir will present their 
fall concert tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Moreau Center
DOWN 
Little Theatre. The concert is free of charge and open 
1 Patronizes 
to the public. Nancy Monk, chair of the musk depart­
2 At the scene 
ment at Saint Mary's, will conduct the <~oncert. 

3 One-named folk 
Musicians Larry Taylor, AndrHa Mather, and Bethany 
singer 
Chattin will accompany the choirs. 
4 Subject for St. 
Center for Social Concerns -The spring edition of 
Thomas 
the booklet "Social Concerns Courses wilh
Aquinas 
Experiential, Service-Learning, and Community-Based
5 Hersey's bell 
Learning" is now available for all interested students
town 
and faculty at the Center for Social Coneerns and at
6 Tall and wiry 
the offices of Campus Ministry. 
1 Places to 
College of Arts and Letters -Dean Hoche of the
overnight 
College of Arts and Letters cordially invites all Arts
a Rachel's sister 
and Letters students and prospective students to
9 Singer Nicks 
attend an open forum on Wed., Nov. 18, at 7:30p.m.

10 Author Barbara 
in the LaFortune Ballroom. Questions will be

of "Laughing All 
answered and refreshments will be served. 


Women's Soccer NCAA Championship 
....
Second Round Sun., Nov. 15th I:OOpm Alumni Field 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You 
can make financial gains through 
property investments, insurance poli­
cies, an inheritance or some winrungs. 
Make favorable changes in your 
domestic scene, but make sure that 
you have everyone's approval. ceo 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Pleasure 
trips or 'hort jaunts to visit friends or 
relatives will be successful. Take heed 
of the advice given. Your mood will 
be romantic and your partner will be 
receptive. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Put your greatest efforts into your profes­sional endeavors. Social events will promote new romantic ties. Your investments must be conservative. Think twice before you sign. OCCO 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Your spontaneity will cause others to gravitate toward you. You will be in for adventure and social events will provide you with the necessary excitement. 00 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Sudden good fortune can be yours if you take a chance. Deal with govern­ment agencies or any red tape that you may have hanging over your head. Be secretive about your person­al life. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): 

.. Pleasure trips and social acti\~ ty will be entertaining. Satisfy your passion­ate mood. The contributions vou make to organizations will enhance your reputation. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Your high energy will enable you to accom­plish more than your colleagues. You can get respect from superiors if you present your unique approach to vour work. You can work well with others. 000 

ACROSS 1 Thriving time 5 Seed covering 9 Make meek, in a 
way 14 Bring down 
15 Kierkegaard, e.g. 16 Poolside turban 
17 Scene of W.W. I 
fighting 18 "Black Beauty" 
author 
20 Mourning 22 "Keep it up, leila!" 23 Don't believe it! 
27 Pond dwellers 
2alce 
30 --populi 31 Sighting off the 
California coast 34 Spiffy 35 Noone 
37 Newscaster Paula 39 Relents Prefix with 
40 
propyl 41 Screen 
42 Can't take-­an answer 
46 Play by 21-Down 48 Film maker? 50 Knight 
53 Slapstick, e.g. 56 Falkirk citizen 
57 Harry Connick Jr.'s "--and a Smile" 

---------~~­
• Men's basketball 
• Yzerman moves into 
1Oth on the NHL 

-
signs two impressive 
career scoring list.
recruits for next sea­
son.

PORTS 
p.20 
p.I7 
THE

page28 ---------------------------------------------0 BSERVER Thursday, November 12, 1998 

• IRISH INSIGHT 

Hockey team deserves respect 
By TED BASSANI Sports Writer 
Allow me to introdtH'P you to the varsity team on campus which has staged the most dra­matic turnaround of any Notre Dame team in a decade -the Notre Dame hockey team. 
For now. Notre Dame is not what anyone would call a "hock­ey campus," and I certainly understand that. Up until late last year, in fact, there has not been much of a reason for stu­dents to take interest in the team, since the program's last .500 season took place in 1990­
91. Let me remind you that even that season, the Irish sported a record of 16-15-2, playing the likes of Alabama-Huntsville, 
• fOOTBALL 

Freshman Weaver provides big hits 
By TIM CASEY Sports \\'rirer 
Like most young aspiring ath­letes growing up in the 90's, Tonv Weaver had visions of bt>ing the nPxt Michael Jordan. 
As Irish fans can attest. it was a good thing that he made the switch to football. 
"I was getting recruited for football and I was starting to get too big. I was eating too much and I started losing that basket­ball skill, so I decided football was the way to go and I'm just going to try to play the best I can," commented Weaver. 
llis basketball glory may be limited to the Bookstore Basketball tournament, but his "try" at football will certainly lead to a promising career. Only a freshman, Weaver has bm:ome one of the most valuable defen­sive play(~rs on this year's 7-1 squad. 
Despitn !wing inexperienced, Weaver has been the most con­sistent perfonner on the dd'cn­sive lin(~. lie started the season and his earner with a timely foreed fumble against Michigan and became the first defensive player for the Irish to start in a season opener since Mike Kovaleski in I(J83. 
Ever since, he has been noth­ing less than sensational, n~corcl­ing 18 tackles and two sacks on t.lw season. 
w(~aver possesses trenwndous athleticism -with great tech­nique and footwork -which has been crucial in his early success. In high school, this multi-talent­ed athlete started for tho basket­ball team and rushed for 717 yards as a senior tailback. These sports helped him with his speed, which has been very use­ful this year when lining up against offensive linemen who 

··~ outweigh him by 50 pounds. "Playing tailback and playing Lake Forest. Mercyhurst and Kent State, since Notre Dame had not yet joined the CCHA. 
The turnaround of the pro­gram as a whole began with the selection of a new head coach in the spring of 1995. Following his last season playing in the NHL (Washington Capitals), 2-time All-Star center and Notre Dame alumnus Dave Poulin took the position of head coach. Poulin was co-captain of the Irish the last time the program was respectable on the national scene when he led the team to the 1982 CCHA championship game, marking the first and only time Notre Dame has played in a conference championship game. 
As for his tenure as head coach. Poulin has recruited some of the best players to ever play for Notre Dame, and fur­thermore, he has already devel­oped some into top NHL prospects. In fact, there are cur­rently six players on the roster who have been drafted by NHL teams. That number would have been one higher had Mark Eaton not foregone three years of eligibility to play for the Philadelphia Flyers organization following a superb freshman year in 97-98. 
But the real sign of a good coach is not the raw ability of the players he can recruit to play for him. (If you want proof, just ask Ohio State fans about John Cooper) Good coaching manifests itself through player development and team perfor-

Led by head coach Dave Poulin, the Irish hockey team hopes to con­
see HOCKEYI page I 9 
tinue its successful play into the next century . 


basketball helped my f(Jotwork a lot so that makes me a little lighter on my feet," said the Saratoga Springs, N.Y., native. "When I'm out here I don't have to go through 300 pounders. I can try to run around them." 
He is also grateful to his high school football coach for helping and everything that most fresh­him become the player he is man don't usually have, so it was today. a big advantage to mn." 
"My high school coach played Coming into the season, the in the Canadian Football League humble Weaver didn't know and he played defensive end, what to expect in terms of play-too," added Weaver, "So coming in, I already had the footwork 
see WEA VERI page 26 

• WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Irish double-up Estonians 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Assistant SportS Editor 
Notre Dame controlled the 
play at both baskets and 
everywhere in between as it 
dominated Tallinn Kayaba 
from Estonia from opening 
tip-off to the closing buzzer. 
The Irish won their second 
and final exhibition gameof 
the season with a final score 
of88-37. 

The Irish wasted no time 
getting the narly jump in the 
matchup. 

Capitalizing on offensive 
rebounds and putting up six 
of its first nine field goals 
from inside. Notre Dame 
built a 23-5 lead in the first 
10 minutes. Estonia only 
helped the Irish amass their 
early lead with six fouls in 
that tinw span. 

Estonia went five and a 
half minutes into the contest 
without a pointas the Irish 
started the game with a 16­
point lead. Janne Hits got 
Estonia on the board at 
14:25 with an outside jumper. Hits connected on twoof her seven field goals in the lirst half in addition to landing two of her four free throws to end the half with 18 for Estonia. 
Ulle-Eila Tonnis injected some life into the Estonian defense as the half closed with her four steals. But the Irish never let Estonia get close on the scoreboard or get dose to the basket. 
sec BASKETBALL/ page 
at Boston College Big East Quarterfinals 
Saturday, 2 p.m. at St. John's 
SPORTS 
~~
·'I 'Si 

Sunday, 12 p.m. at Boston College 
ATA 

Big East Semifinals ~ Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
~ 
at Connecticut at Georgetown ~ Tomorrow, 12 p.m. @) Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 



