
Thursday, February 12, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 90 ' THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Scholars examine Hussein's weapons stance, aggression 
By JANEL KILEY 

News Writer 
Professors Gnorgn Lopez and David Cortright examined Iraqi president Sad dam Hussein's detnrmination to use weapons of mass destruction last night. detailing the options and effects of the international community in preventing the acquisition of such weapons. 
Tlwir presentation investigated the costs and benefits of certain 1~connmic restrictions and consid­ered the humanitarian concerns related to these actions. 
At stake in this crisis "is the impasse between the Security Council and Iraq and the struggle [for power! in the post-Cold War world." Lopez said. This "Cold War paradigm" involves such issues as the effective enforce­ment and affirmation of interna­tional norms and the stand against blatant aggression that Iraq displays, he added. 

In addition, the "Cold War para­digm" argues for the prevention of the possession and accumula­tion of weapons of mass destruc­tion while considering humanitar­ian concerns, Lopez said. 
In their lecture, "Dealing With Saddam: Bombing, Bargaining or Bailing-Out," Cortright stated that sanctions imposed against Iraq in the past seven years effectively isolated the nation "economically, diplomatically and politically." They experienced an "erosion of economic capability" as they lost over one billion dollars in oil rev­enue, he said. 
Controversial evidence suggests that the economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations have curbed Iraqi military poten­tial by devastating their monetary intake from oil distribution, the professors said. Particularly, the sanctions curtailed development of harmful weapons. 
Cortright said Secretary of State Madeline Albright described the 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
P
erformers in Father David Garrick's play, "The Escape of Kropotkin," rehearsed last night in Washington Hall. The play is about a Russian prince who is jailed for his political beliefs. 

Priest's script becomes reality 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Senior Stafl"Writer 
"The Escape of Kropotkin," a new play writtnn and directed by Father David Garrick of Notre Dame's the­ater department, premiers tonight in the Old Band Hoom of Washington I I all. 
Tlw pnrformance had originally been planned as a staged reading without costumes, Garrick said. llowever. thn enthusiasm of the undergraduate cast quickly turned the event into something more. 
"It started o!l' as a reading. but then tlw actors asked if tlwy could memo­rize their lines." Garrick said. "It was not meant to have costumes and other things that studnnts have decid­ed to come up with." 
So after only two and a half weeks of preparation. the actors will be putting on a fully costumed perfor­mance of the play, without book. man, he excels in his studies and, as 
The play begins at 7:30 p.m. a reward, becomes a page for Czar tonight; the "stage" will be at the cen­Alexander II. ter of the audience which Garrick Kropotkin's support for the Czar's promised would add a few interesting reforms of the Russian government 
effects to the pro­duction. 
"As people will see, the band room fits just perfectly into [the play]." he said. 
With tonight's per­formance, Garrick becomes the first member of Notre 
Dame's faculty to stage a reading of his own play on 
campus. 
Tho play itself is the true story of the young prince Peter Kropotkin, a generous and liberal, yet traditionally minded young man in mid-nineteenth century Czarist Russia. As a young progress in eliminating such weapons as "stunning." Numerous nuclear weapons in Baghdad have been identified and destroyed. 
"The nuclear folder can be closed," Cortright stated. 
The process achieved similar progress in destroying ballistic missiles, as 817 of 819 scud mis­siles in Iraqi possession have been accounted for, he said. Cortright believes "the Iraqi scud force no longer exists." 
In the area of chemical weapons, he believes that "signifi­cant progress" has been made, but considerable uncertainties remain. However, biological weapons remain an area of con­cern for U.N. officials, he said, and while many sources of germ warfare have been found, many remain hidden. 
In addition to the military con­cerns with Iraq, Lopez addressed 
see IRAQ/ page 4 

'WHAT IS CENTRAL [TO 
THE PlAY) IS THE POWER OF FRIENDSHIP . ' 
FATHER DAVID GARRICK AumoRID!RECTOR, "TilE EscAPE 
OF KROPOTKJN" 

land him in deep trouble with the Russian aristocracy, which includes his own father. He is imprisoned for trea­son when he is found speaking against via­
lence and in favor of 
human rights to a group of under­ground revolutionar­ies. After two years 
of solitary confinement in a prison fortress, Kropotkin's friends arrange a complicated scheme to spring him from prison. 
see THEA TERJ page 4 
'THERE ARE MANY WOMEN, INCLUDING MYSELF, WHO WERE ADMITI'ED TO NOTRE DAME, BUT CHOSE TO GO TO SAINT MARY'S.' 
LORI McKEOUGH 
VJCE•PRESIDENTOF SAiNT MARY'SCOUEGE 

Talk confronts stereotypes 
ByAlliSON KOENIG Saint Maryls News Editor 
Saint Mary's women, from the time of their first encounter with the College all the way through their experiences as students and alumnae, battle numerous stereotypes, ~tccording to arecent survey conducted by the Board ofGovernance. 
BOG· elections commissioner Janet Horvath spearheaded the survey project, issuing open~ ended questionnaires to all Saint Mary's stu­dents during the second week of this semester. The survey asked students to recall stereo­tYPes. of the College or its students, who they encountered the stereotype from and how they felt about it. 
Horvath, in collaboration with Student Activities director Georgeanna Rosenbush and student body president Nikki Milos, tabulated the results of the roughly 40 surveys which were returned. 
"The low number of survey response was a letdown, especially in light of the spirit felt on campus after the [now infamous letter printed in The Observer, which was authored by Notre Dame sophomores Catherine Syner and Stacey Fuller and dubbed Saint Mary's women 'the great Notre Dame parasite.']," Horvath said. 
BOG member Genevieve Morrill does not believe that the relatively low response dimin­ishes the survey's implications or results. "We need to·examine the types of stereotyPes that students indicated they are experiencing, and determine .what we ·can do to change those false images," she said. 
About 40 Saint Mary's College students, fac­ulty and administrators gathered in Stapleton Lounge last night for an open forum entitled "Breaking stereotypes about SMC," an event 
see LABELS/ page 7 


I 
.l 

Thursday, February 12, 1998
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Searching for 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Rolling Stone's 'Covers' Tour Reaches Berkeley 


Eric Liddell 
Whatnver happnned 

David Zachry 
to the true amateur ath­

News Copy Editor 
lntn'? Whatever hap­
pnnml to the day when 

-Olympic athletes compnted for pure reasons and not for a Nike shoe contract or a Wheaties box cover'? Whatever happmwd to thn day of Erie Liddell'? Erie I.iddnll is the subject of the film "Chariots of Fire." Liddell won the Olympic gold mmlal in the 400 meter race in the Paris Olympiad of 1924. Liddell's greatness is not so much measured by the weight of his gold medal. but by his story. A devout Scottish Protestant and preacher, Liddell did not run for his own self glorifica­tion and ego, but for the glory of God. Liddell felt that his incredible gift of speed was merely an extension of his passion for God, and thus to run was to honor I lim and the gift of speed that was bnstowed upon him. Perhaps the greatest test of Liddell's faith and passion for God came when he learned that the qualifying heats for the 100 meter dash wnre to be held on Sunday. Liddell, the 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

In the background. L.L Cool J's rap tune "Marna's Gonna Knock You Out" played, while a video showed perfor­mances by Elvis Presley. 
There were also Madonna's pointy bustier and Alice Cooper's fake sev­ered head and guillotine from his 1986 Nightmare Heturns tour. 
Rolling Stone's Covers Tour, whieh opened yesterday at UC Berkeley's International House, showcases hun­dmds of pieees of rock 'n' roll history. 
The event has already hit New York University and UCLA and will be head­ing to other schools ineluding Georgia Tech and Northeastern University. 
The exhibit traces the magazine's covers dating baek to its first in 1967. "I hope pnople go to the Covers Tour because it will be the most painless history lesson they'll ever have," said David Wile, West Coast editor of the magazine. 

"Our idea to tour the universities 
• was to celebrate the upcoming 30th anniversary of Holling Stone," he explained. 
"We're paying tribute, giving credit 
and honoring the magazine for cap­
turing the decades. 
We want the students to see things 
they missed in the past because they 
were too young." 
Some students at the exhibition did in fact get a chance to look into the history of rock 'n' roll via portraits and paraphernalia. 
For Dominique Williams, a sopho­more political science major, thn exhibit was a chance to see covers and portrayals of musicians who per­formed before he was born. 
"I was interested in seeing older [music[ from thn 1960s," said Williams. 
Williams added that she heard the music-Janis Joplin. thn Gratnful Dead and John Lennon, for example -around tho house as sho grow up. 
"I wasn't old enough (to see what the eovers look1~d like)," she said. "And it's interesting to know the story bnhind the picture on the eover." 
Holling Stone magazinn was lilunded in 1967 by Jann Wenner. who d._-opped out of UC Berkeley. The first issue of the biweekly was 24 pagns, and some 4,000 copies circulated around the San Francisco Bay /\rea featuring a photograph of John Lennon on the eover. 
fastest man in Europe, refused to compete because he would not dishonor God by run­ning on the Sabbath. The English Olympic committnn, thn Prinen of Wales. and a host of othnrs all tried to convince Liddell to forsake his personal devotion and commitment to God and think of his country bnfore himsnlf. 
Liddell refusnd. lie gave up his opportunity at immortality by competing in and possibly winning the I 00 meter dash and thus becom­ing the fastest human alive. Thankfully for Liddnll. a teammatf~ of his gave up his posi­tion in the 400 meter dash because he admirml Liddell's personal conviction, honor, and unshakable stance. 
I.iddnll won the race in a stunning upset hut, most importantly, Liddell won the respect of tlw entire world by not sacrilieJng his integrity for a chancn at personal glory. 
The subject of this column is not a history lesson on one of my pnrsonal heroes. My question is what has happened to the pure amatnur athlete? 
The Olympic games are supposed to be a contest where only amatnur athletes show­casn their talent and athleticism in perhaps the most pressure filled competition imagin­able. So why are Brett llull and half of the NIIL on thnir way to Nagano'? 
The only answer I can think of is national arroganec. The i\rneriean people seem to think that winning the Olympic gold, in what­over sport. is the only acceptable outcome of Olympic eompntition. lias winning become so important that we are willing to sacrifice all the purity of the Olympic games and true amateur competition for a gold mndal that isn't even made out of gold'! 
Defendants of the hoekey team might say that other nations are snnding their pro's so why can't we? My response is the proverbial, if your friend jumpml ofT a bridge, would you do it too'? Professional athletes have no busi­ness in Ban:elona. Atlanta, and now Nagano. 
The Olympic games were meant for ath­lfltes like Erie Liddell. Jesse Owens, Bonnie Blair and Dan .lansnn. i\thletes who pos­
• PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Underage drinking law proposed 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Once upon a time, state Hep. Mario Civera Jr. sponsored a bill to make the verification of a person's age when pur­chasing alcoholic beverages a little easier. In 1996, Civera, H-Del., a member of the state llouse Liquor Control Committee, was the primary sponsor of Act 199, which would make Pennsylvania the first state to implement the MinorChecker System. The system allows aleoholic bever­age providers to sean the magnetic strips on the backs of driver's licenses to determine whether the cards are legal and the person pictured is at least 21. "The question is, does this restriction directly serve its purpose'?" said Mark Goodman, executive director Student Press Law Center. "That's what we were going after, nothing else," Civera said. But the path of a bill into law is a bumpy process. Along the way, a few amendments were attached to the bill, induding one that restricts aleohol advertisements in college newspapers. 
• UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA UVA vice president is arrested 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. 
University Police Department officials arrested Dan Soschin, Student Council viee president for administration, yesterday morning for allegedly attempting to obtain "money by false pretenses" in connection with a three-day Council retreat at the Omni hotel in September, according to a press release from the University police. According to the press release, Soschin was subsequently released on a $1500 unsecured bond. The charge of allegedly attempt­ing to obtain "money by false pretenses" applies to those "who, rather than stealing outright, obtain money by being dishonest in some way," assistant law school profes­sor Barbara Armacost said. Soschin allegedly submitted a bill in October for t-he Omni retreat with several portions altered to fit the Student Activity Fund's guidelines, police spokeswoman Kirsten Curtis said. Adjustments in the bill added up to $3,690.42 more than Council should have received. 
• PRINCETON UNIVERSITY 
Princeton students get inflated grades 
PHINCETON, N.J. 
A detailed report releasnd yesterday by a faculty com­
mittee studying gradn in!1ation shows that students across 
the board now receive far hotter grades than tlwy did 24 
years ago. The report goes on to recommend that academ­
ic departments begin work immediately to eombat tlw 
trend. The report, issued by the Faculty Committee on 
Examinations and Standing, found that the most salient 
difference between grades in 1974 and grades in 1997 is a 
movement toward higher grades that has steadily pro­
gressed in all departments-induding engineering and tlw 
natural sciences-and is growing still. i\ccording t.o thn 
committee, such trends lead to a laundry list of problems. 
"The faculty owes students a more finely tuned assess­
ment of their performance, along with dearer signals 
about what grades mean." the report reads. The authors 
note, however, that the grades Princeton professors assign 
are very much in line with other notable universities. 
• WASHINGTON STATE UNIVERSITY 
Disgruntled student protests exam 
PULLMAN, Wash. 
A former graduate student has been pickoting on the 
Glenn Terrell Mall for the last few weeks with a sandwich­
board sign accusing the political science department and 
Student Affairs of wrong doing. Charles Moars, 42, had 
spent three years working on a doctoratt"l in political sd­
ence when he dropped out of the program after failing his 
preliminary oral examination -a step that needs to be 
eomiJleted before one can start on the last leg of a doctor­
ate. Mears said he failed for non-academic rnasons, main­
ly personal bias, because of two appeals and his political 
beliefs. "I made the grave mistake of offending my gradu­
ate committee," Mears said. Although he would not dis­
cuss Mears' case specifically, Lance I.oLoup, chairman of 
the political science department, said political ideology 
and personal beliefs do not result in a student failing. "If 
we failed everyone who complained, we would fail every­
one," said Amy Mazur, professor of political science. 
sessed such undeniable character, talent, and bravery that they will forever be remembered as henws who never sold out their amateur stances or beliefs for money or fame. L(~t's keep it that way. Send the hockey team horne! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Karhleen O'Brien  Emmett Malloy  
Sarah Hilrz  Graphics  
David Zachry  Dave l'iening  
Sports  Production  
Brian Kessler  Heather Logan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Jeff Hsu  

The Obmver (USPS S99 2-4000) i> published Monday through Friday 
C'Xccpr during exam ~nd vacation period). The Observer is a member of the Associatcd Press. All reproduction righcs are reserved. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Thursday  ~  36 35  
Friday  ~  43 25  
Saturday  ~  38 25  
\Sunday  ~(44  29  
,~  
Monday  .~  45 34  

(5'~v·'v' -"\·..:.... 
Q,~,~q~Q (f ~ u 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Vta Assocuued Press Graph1csNel 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, Feb. 12. 
FRONTS: 
....,......... _.__.._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Anaheim 68 48 Cleveland 43 28 Los Angeles 65 46 Bloomington 40 30 Detroit 38 28 Omaha 45 28 Buffalo 42 23 Fargo 34 18 Philadelphia 56 34 Chicago 38 28 Houston 66 46 Salem 59 41 Cincinalti 42 29 Jackson 48 32 Youngstown 41 27 

------~------------~--~-~ 

.···~~~!f:';~~=nj~~~~~ifhe
dorms. < ·'""' 



N THE RUN·OFF 
Off..campus students:,11 
~·rry··1 ~;m. il'l the ~l,lddJt'!; J;~~o

Thursday, February 12, 1998 • page 3 
~J~.m;J_i1theC1 P{!b~inglot.·'· ..,. 


EDITOR'S NOTE: THE INFORMATION BELOW, TAKEN FROM INTERVIEWS THE OBSERVER CON­DUCTED WITH THE TWO TICKETS, FIRST APPEARED IN MONDAY'S ELECTION SUPPLEMENT. 

Class/ Major: Cesaro is a finance and CAPP major; Selak is a govern­ment/international studies and American studies major. 
IN THEIR WORDS 

Campaign Slogan: "Putting Students First." Most Important Idea: Improving student services, including the spelling out of student rights, getting a non-voting student on the Board of Trustees, adjusting the meal plans and improving communication between student government and students. Most Feasible: Working to change the dining plan and privatizing SafeRide, giving student drivers paid positions and extending the service to "popular going-out nights." Least Feasible: Getting a student member to sit on the Board of Trustees. Notable Quote: "We want to take the government to the students and increase communication so that people aren't saying 'What does student gov­ernment do?'" Prior Experience: Cesaro is Knott Hall co-president and served previ­ously as the Planner Hall freshman representative, sophomore class president and student senator. Selak is sophomore class vice president, co-chairs the social concerns committee and previously served as freshman class secretary. 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-administration Relations -Would push for a non-voting student member of the Board of Trustees. Inner-workings of Government -They believe the student govern­ment's executive cabinet has great potential for achievement and "could be such a powerful tool." Gender Relations -The pair sees the Women's Resource Center as playing a larger role on campus; they want to increase funding, publicity and office space for the center. Diversity -They feel this topic can be more easily addressed by "bringing students together" through forums and similar activities; increase accessibility for disabled students. Off-campus Students -Cesaro and Selak stress the need for off-cam­pus presidents to sit on the Hall Presidents' Council, and stated that creation of "block captains" can help publicize student government activities to various apartment complexes. 
Class/Major: Williams is a junior history and philosophy double major; Reising is a sophomore communications and government/international studies double major. 
IN THEIR WORDS 

Campaign Slogan: "Making it Happen." Most Important Idea: To improve race relations at Notre Dame by attracting prominent speakers to campus to address issues of diversity. Most Feasible: Improving the availability and accessibility of food services and increasing the convenience of book purchases with the use of a more exten­sive on-line service. Least Feasible: They feel their research proves the feasibility of all of their goals. Notable Quote: "We still haven't seen what the (new) constitution can do." Prior Experience: Williams represents Zahm Hall in the Student Senate and is a member of the Campus Life Council; he also chairs the CLC's diversity committee. As a sophomore, Williams sat on HPC as co-president of Zahm Hall. Heising represents P.E. in the Student Senate, and also has experience with the Student Union Board and, as a freshman, served as a class representative and class vice president. 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-administration Relations -Placing a student on the University's Board of Trustees is "overwhelmingly important,:' and they would push for a voting member. They also hope to resolve issues of enumerated stu­dent rights in regards to academics and interaction with Student Affairs. Inner-workings of Government -Williams and Reising agree with constitutional changes that emphasize the separation of policy-making and pro­gramming within the Student Senate and Hall Presidents' Council respectively. Gender Relations -Pursuing expanded cooperation with SMC student government; access to 24-hour space also a key issue. Reising is a member of the senate's gender relations committee. Diversity -Ideas include introductory prejudice reduction workshops, attraction of nationally prominent speakers and increased interaction between students and female professors that are both insightful and feasible. Off-campus Students -Acknowledging the inevitability of students moving off campus, they plan to distribute a regular newsletter, accentuating the importance of contact between the vice president and the off-campus senator to keep those students informed. 
Brandon 

WILLIAMS 
Julie 


REISING 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 12, 1998 

M
argaret ()'Callaghan, visit­ing associate professor of government at Notre Dame, explains the centuries-old strug­gles between Ireland and Britain in a lecture last night. The parti­tion of Ireland into the Irish Free State, which is comprised of the southern 26 counties, and Ulster, which contains the northern six, has been blamed for the cultural, religious and political problems that have plagued Ireland. 
Shannon Grady contributed to this report. 
ground involving a "reshaping of sanctions." Such a process includes reducing sanctions on civilian goods but continuing emgarbos on military goods. He advocates a measure involving the completion of certain steps in order to gradually lift sanc­tions. This proeess relies "strict­ly on Iraqi compliance," Cortright said. 
Cortright believed a 100 per­cent assurance that all weapons will be identified and destroyed is impossible, because "ambigui­ty and uncertainty is a normal state in diplomatic negotia­tions." The "graduated bargain­ing" method supported by Lopez and Cortright represents a pos­sible method to break the pre­sent deadlock and bring a peaceful end to the crisis. 
Iraq 
continued from page 1 
"the unintended consequences on humanity" which were the results of economic sanctions. These sanctions. he contimwd. "have wreaked havoc on Iraqi soeiety." The nation experi­enced a deterioration of' its health infrastructure, causing "a humanitarian emergnncy." 
Some accounts, though doubt­ed, estimate that over 500,000 children have died since the imposition of the sanctions, he said. Most however, agree the Iraqis have sull'erod "incredibly and grievously," according to the professors. 
The dnbate over the most effective way to end this crisis quickly involves choices such as bombing and bailing out. The first option, according to Cortright, "otTers no guarantee to eliminate Iraqi weapons." 

CM.aternowski's t<'j-272-0970 0 
Most likely it would inflame anti-American passions, increase terrorism, and further divide the United Nations, ren­dering cooperative action among its members more diffi­cult, Cortright said. 
This action would also lead to an escalated military eonl'ronta­tion, further alienating Saddam llussein and projecting him as a victim rather than an outlaw, the speakers predicted. 
If the U.N. chose to bail out by lifting sanctions unconditionally, they would fail to prevent global aggression. Cortright believes such action would "express eon­sent to [accumulation] of Iraqi weapons," and jeopardize "the future authority of the U.N. in preventing tyranny." 
Cortright proposed a middle 

The University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents Guest Artist 
Ursula Oppens, pianist 
Call 631-6201 for more information. 

Theater 
continued from page 1 
"What is central," Garrick said, "is the power of friendship -really honest friendship. That's what drives these people to do something that no one could do, getting him out of there." 
But not only do Kropotkin 's friends rescue him -they res­cue him in accord with. or per­haps despite, his demand that the plan for escape be complete­ly non-violent. 
"That they continued with it when he said no to the violent escape is quite unique," Garrick said, adding that he knows first­hand how secure the prison was. "I've been in that fortress, and you're not going to get any­one out of there," he said. "To do that, to want to do it, meant that you really love this guy. This prince, who had given up his title, was the real thing." 
The scheme to free Kropotkin becomes very complicatml, and includes a detailed study of the security guards' pnrsonal back­grounds and careful plans for distracting eaeh one at exactly the right time. In the end, 50 or 60 people arc involved in the plot. 
As Garrick explained, his play adheres faithfully to the histori­cal facts of the plot. 
"The escape was like some­thing out of a fairy tale," he said. "Almost everything you hear in the play is true ­induding the trieks used to dis­tract the guards." 
At first, Garriek did not even believe that it would be possible to stage the elimactie final scene, in which Kropotkin makes his 300 yard dash for freedom. But soon afWrward, lw diseovered a technique at a workshop which he thought would work well. Unfortunately, it was also "very dil'f'ieult to explain in words," he said. 
"I think the story could have been done in a movie, but the way we've done this is pure the­ater," he said. 


Irish Gardens is a student run business located in the basement ofLaFortune. 
Open from 12:3o-5:3oPM 
Monday through Saturday 
631,.4004 


If you call Pittsburgh home 
THINK PITT 

FOR SUMMER COURSES! 
• 
Large selection of transferable courses 

• 
Sessions begin in May, June and July 

• 
Day, evening and Saturday classes 

• 
Easy registration by mail, fax or in person 

• 
Affordable tuition for PA residents 


Registration Begins February 23 
Call:  (412) 383-8600  
By Mail:  Return the coupon below  
E-Mail:  summer+@pitt.edu  

For on-line schedule and course descriptions, visit our Web site at www.pitt.edu/-summer 
University of Pittsburgh -SUMMER SESSIONS 1998 Please send a Summer 1998 Schedule of Classes and registration material to: Name ______________________________________________ 
Mailing address-----------------------­City________________________State_______Zip ------------­Telephone ( __)_________________ 
1attend University/College. 
Mail to: University Summer Sessions • University of Pittsburgh 405 Cathedral of Learning • Pittsburgh, PA 15260-6119 

Thursday, February 12, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlO NEWS BRIEFS 
Mudslide in Bolivia is deadly 
LA PAZ, Bolivia 

A rnudslide blamed on El Nino's heavy rains dumped tons of mud and rocks on a gold mine camp near Bolivia's border with Peru early Wednesday, killing as many as 50 people, officials said. Hescue crews recov­ered 19 bodies by midafternoon, presidential press secretary Patricia Balda told The Associated Press. Twenty-one more miners were missing and ft~ared dead, she said. The death toll could reach 50, said the head of tho civil defense agency, Carlos Montero. Hescue efforts were suspended after dark Wednesday night but were to resume first thing Thursday, Montero said. In addition, rain continued to fall in the area, provoking a fear of new landslides. "This makes it urgent to rescue the survivors," he said. The mudslide occurred in the Mocotoro camp in th1~ Tipuani mountains, about 140 miles northwest of the Bolivian capital, La Paz. Helicopter pilots who flew over the area reported seeing a number of survivors and threw food and other supplies to them, Montero said. 
Administration, Democrats seek to raise minimum wage 
Pn~sident Clinton is preparing to embrace a $1 an hour increase in the minimum wage as part of a legislative agenda he and congressional Democratic leaders arc about to unveil, congressional aides said Wednesday. Final details '-"'-''---'---""-------'"""'"'"" were still being hammered Clinton out, sa:id !louse and Senate aides, speaking on condition of anonymity. But they said Dnmocratic leaders and Clinton wnn~ ready to endorse raising the current $5.15 hourly minimum wage in two 50-cent increments, probably over the next two or three years. I louse Republican leaders. mean­while. returned from a three-day GOP retreat saying they would rather use the $100 billion Clinton wants for new domestic initiatives over the next five years for tax cuts. Sen. Edward Kmmedy, D-Mass., and other liberals last month proposed raising the minimum wage by $1.50 to $6.65 an hour by September 2000 and indexing it to inflation thereafter. Clinton endorsed raising the minimum wage in his State of the Union message last month, hut did not specify how much. His proposal would keep the White House behind an issue that Democrats believe they can usc effective­ly in next November's election. Republicans oppose any minimum wage increase, arguing it would raise business costs and cause unem­ployment. 

Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 1708.55

8314.55 
-0.49 

II 
NYSE: 530.75 +0.79 
S&P 500: Composite 
1020.01 Volume: 

+18.94 + 1.00 593,857,800 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

rntku::a~l· IU'b;l"ll ~~~ ruA~u.~~· S i:iAitll CBIJ:t" 
DEKALB <.;ENE-B LJKB 63.02 20.875 .S4.00 Mf.T\{OMAIL CORP MI. 47.02 8.375 26.19 scuns UQ <JnLn S<JD 20.00 0.625 3.75 BOMBAY CO BBA 16.05 0.813 5.88 rllll\1A<; NF.LiiON-11 T!\:!vl/8 I:UJ4 l.SOO 13.0 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

MOSSIMO INC MGX 23.8 1.25 4.00 COMPUTER ASSOC CA 1.1.35 7.75 50.31 ttROWN/ SIIAHI'·A BNS 12.58 1.31 9.125 t'IIAHMACELITRES /'RX 11.43 0.25 1.938 DEPUY INC ll/'U 10.75 3.19 26.43 
Clinton pushes NATO expansion 
AFP Photo 

President Bill Clinton signs the NATO Enlargement Protocol Wednesday, which seeks to add Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic to NATO. In the background are (L-R): chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Hugh Shelton; National Security 
Adviser Sandy Berger; Sen. William Roth, A-Del.; and Vice President AI Gore. 
AssociATED PREss 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton asked the Senate to bring Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic into NATO, saying all three Eastern European nations have pledged to "serve and support with us" in mili­tary strikes against Iraq. 
Washington's diplomatic community joined Clinton's national security team, veterans' groups and members of Congress on Wednesday at a State Department ceremony opening the president's campaign to enlarge the 16­nation alliance with three former allies of the defunct Soviet Union. The Czech, Polish and Hungarian foreign ministers also attended. 
NATO leaders approved the expan­sion last July, but it still must be ratified individually by each nation. The Senate is expected to approve, despite worries about the costs and risks involved. 
"I am confident it will be overwhelm­ingly embraced," said Sen. William Roth, R-Del. Clinton said he too is confi­dent of the outcome. 
Amid increasing tensions with Iraq, 
'WE ALL HOPE WE CAN 
AVOID THE USE OF FORCE. BUT LET'S FACE IT: IN THE END THAT IS UP TO SADDAM HUSSEIN.' 
PRESIDENT CLINTON 

Clinton reminded the audience that Czech, Hungarian and Polish troops are participating in NATO's peacekeeping efforts in Bosnia and served beside allied forces in the 1991 Gulf War. 
"And they recognize the threat to the world posed today by Saddam Hussein and by his efforts to develop weapons of mass destruction," Clinton said. "I am pleased that all three countries have 
announced that they are prepared to 
serve and support with us as appropri­
ate should military action prove neces­
sary." 
"We all hope we can avoid the use of force," Clinton said. "But let's face it: In the end that is up to Saddam Hussein. He must let the weapons inspectors back with full and free access to all sus­pect sites." 
Russia has adamantly opposed NATO's eastward expansion and its embrace of three former Warsaw Pact members. NATO doctrine stipulates that ·an attack against any member state is an attack against all, and some observers suggest NATO's risks will be higher with Poland, Hungary and the 
Czech Republic as members. 
"These three states will add some 
200,000 troops to the alliance," the 
president said. "A larger NATO will be a 
better deterrent against aggressors of 
the future. It will deepen the ranks of 
those who stand with us should deter­
rents fail." 

• SIERRA LEONE 

West African forces battle to capital 
AssociAIED PRESS .The fighting, which began Friday, has uprooted thou­
. sands of people, and junta officials posing as refugees 

FREETOWN; Sierra.Leot),e were amongthe th!'Qngs of people reportedly streaming 
Nigerian• led intervention forces trying to oust Sierra into neighboring Guinea, a Nigerian official speaking in Leone's military junta reportedly battled their way into Lagos, Nigeria, said. the capitaUate vvednesday, capturing the city's main s¢a.~ A,rmE)(l gangs••. meanwhile. had begun looting homes in port and telling residents "everything will be over soon." ... .· the seaside capital, international aid workers said, and 
The West Afriean for~e. which is trying tores~?l'~;J el~pt~ fighting was hindering efforts to aid Freetown's residents. ed President Ahmed Tejan Kabbah to power, was abgut · .!,\~:we. a.re eo:{lCerneQ. for the, safety of our people but our two miles from the center of Freetown, a pirate radio sta-primary fear is for the people of Freetown," Michael tion said late Wednest:lay. and artill1;1ry ati.d, S!l)t;~,H al'PlS . ~einer,a spokesmap. for the International Committee of fire continued to flare late into the night. .c.. · ,'+v •• •• •• the Red Gross, said in a telephone interview from Geneva. 
The radio station, which backs the president andis ..... He said at least 94 civilians were being treated by Red widely be}j~wed tg be Supported by. the int~rvMti? . (;:t;bSS "\'Vgrkersfor bullet a.Jid shrapnel 'WOUnds· and 2,500 said earlier the force had captured the Queen Eliz ··people had gathered around the Red Cross office in a Quay, the city's main seaport, and its mainlerrytermin.al. 'Westernneighborhood of Freetown. 
Capturing the terminal. which links the' capitl:!J to tlje About 1,400 refugees had arrived in Conakry; the force's headquarters at Freetown's Lungi Airport, would Guinean capital. by Wednesday, Paul Stromberg, the givethe intervention force, known as Ecqmog, *n. easier spokesPlan fgrtheU.N. HighCommissioner for Refugees, route to bring in supplies and soldiers. L. · .. · < •••·•· ·•··· said; Some refugees warned that about 7,000 more pco­
"Citizens are asked to be patient," a radio announcer ple were heading toward Guinea to join more than said, quoting intervention force officials. ·:pverything ~l.ll 250.000 SierraLeonf}anrefugees already there. be over soon." ·· · · · In New York, U;N~ Secretary-General Kofi Annan called·· 
The death toll from fighting was not immediately ava,ll-on both sides to spare civilians and guarantee the safety able,but at least 30 people were believ(:ld to Mve lle(:ln of U.N. !J,nd other int(:lrnational ht,lmanitarian workers in
killed. . .. ... .· ···... ... tlie country. .. .. .. . 
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 12, 1998 
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
Calendar of Events 
Freshman Retreat #16 (Feb. 27-28) Sign-ups 
February 12-February 24 For residents of Alumni, Breen-Philips, Howard, Keogh, Keenan, Lyons, McGlinn, Pasquerilla West and Sorin. Please see you rector or stop by Campus Ministry, 103 Hesburgh Library 
Freshman Retreat Team #16 
Friday-Saturday, February 13-14 
NDE Team #50 Retreat 
Saturday-Sunday. February 14-15 
Misa En Espanol -Spanish Mass 
Sunday, February 15 celebrant: Padre Don McNeill, CSC 1:30pm Stanford-Keenan Chapel 
African American Students Dinner and Conversation at Montego Bay Restaurant 
Monday, February 16, 5:30 p,m (Leave from Main Circle) 
Campus Bible Study 
Tuesday, February 17, 7:OOpm Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 
Talze Prayer 
Wednesday, February 18, 7:30-8:00 pm Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Latino/Hispanlc Studies Initiative 
Friday February 13, 9:30-11:30 pm Social with visiting scholars and NO faculty, followed by a dance at the Center for Social Concerns. 
Memorial Mass for Justin Brumbaugh 
Monday, February 23, 5:05 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Sixth Sunday in Ordinary Time 
Weekend Presiders 
at Sacred Heart Basilica 
Saturday, February 14 
5:00p.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
Sunday, February 15 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Robert E. Sullivan, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. David J, Scheidler, C.S.C. Rev. Mr. Thomas Doyle, C.S.C., Homilist 
Vespers Sunday, February 15 
7:15p.m. Ms. Sarah Granger 
Scripture Readings 

The Death of a Friend 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
CJ 

Perhaps there is no greater measure of the character of a com­munity than at the death of one of it's members. In the wake of the 
a 

tragic and sudden death of Justin Brumbaugh, we are inescapably drawn into a spiral of pain, and of grief, and of communal and self reflection. We are also inevitably bound together in our attempts to 
~ 

grapple with our loss, and to reflect on the meaning of our lives. As a community, our hearts go out to Justin's parents and extended family, and to Brother Jerome and the men of Knott Hall, particular­~ ly those who feel the loss most deeply. 
There is so little consolation to be found in the sudden and 
~ 

untimely death of one so young. If there be any at all, however, it is in our faith in a God who would send his only Son so that we might have life. In the face of death, our only hope is in God and in the 
b 

love that God revealed to us in the Pascal Mystery, the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus. It is only in the paradox of the cross and resurrection that we can make any sense of or glimpse any hope in ~ the absurdity of a death so profoundly sad and untimely as Justin's. 
But there is something even more in all of this for us. It is, perhaps, God's way of saying, through Justin, that we need to be ~ more attentive to the moment, and that we cannot assume too much about the friendships we share, and about the time that we have to do all that we have in mind to do. Please God, in all of this, we can ~ glimpse the hope that we have impacted the lives of many, just as Justin most assuredly did. We are given the opportunity to reflect on the ways that we have been and will be present in faith and in ~ friendship to others in this community. 
I didn't know Justin. I wish I had. Much has been spoken of 
~ 

him in the days since his death by those who loved him. He was clearly a fine young man, and his death is a loss deeply felt by many. You can hear in the voices of those who knew him their pain at not 
a 

having had just one last conversation with him. They long to be able to say just one last time how much he meant to them, how much they loved him, and, perhaps, to hear the same from him. But why would they have thought to have that conversation? They were ~ going to see him at Mass on Sunday night, and in class on Monday, and in the dining hall, and in the residence hall, and in all the places ~ that they had always seen Justin. There was no reason to believe that he was not going to be there. And yet, as we know, he was not • at Mass on Sunday, nor is he anywhere else that we still expect to 
• 

run into him. 
If Justin's sudden death isn't a wake-up call for us to be about • the business of the things that matter, then nothing ever will be. This isn't a sentimental plea for you to go around with "I love you" on your lips with every encounter or a profound goodbye with every parting. But it is a plea for you to live "I love you" in all the ways that you interact with those whom you do love, and to share with more profundity in the lives of those whom you call friend. There is perhaps nothing more painful than lost opportunity. And, please God, it will never be said of us that we did not learn from the lesson that this sad death could have taught us. 
As a community we will celebrate Justin's life with a Memorial Mass on Monday, February 23, 1998 at 5:05 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Fr. Edward A. Malloy, our University president, will lead us in prayer. May it be a prayer not only for Justin and his family and friends, but a prayer for us all. That we as a community might come to know, through Justin's life and death, the richness of our own lives, and the opportunities that we have to deepen in love and friendship, and in faith. 
Justin, we'll miss you. Our hearts break for your parents and for those whom you leavt: behind who so dearly love you. Even as we grieve, help us to remember well the love and the joy that you brought to so many. And help us to love well those with whom God 
1st Jeremiah 17:5-8 has blessed our lives. So that when our day comes, we will be ready, and, through our care and love for others, and by our very lives, we 
1m1
2nd 1 Corinthians 15:12, 16-20 

too zoill have said a proper good bye. With faith in a loving and gra­Gospel Luke 6:17, 20-26 cious God, we entrust you to God's care, and we look to the day (Z\MPUS
MINISTRY

when we shall see in. Good ·n. 
----------~~--...-----------------~----~~-----------------------------------------------------------~-------.---------------, 
Thursday, February 12, 1998 
ND liturgy director wins rnajor award 
By COLLEEN MURPHY  cult and controversy."  
News Writer  Mitchell, associate direc­ 
tor of Notre Dame's Center  
The  North  American  for Pastoral Liturgy, has  
Academy of Liturgy awarded Nathan Mitchell the  been a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1990. He  
Berakah Award.  obtained his doctoral degree  
This award is regarded as thfl nation's most presti­ in theology from Dame in 1978.  Notre  
gious academic honor for  Mitchell is the author of  
liturgists. Mitchell received the award last month at the  six books as well as a num­ber of articles. He is  
academy's annual meeting  presently  the  editor  of  
in San Antonio.  Assembly  and  Liturgy  
The  academy  honored  Digest. Both  are  publica­ 
Mitehell by saying he is "a  tions  by  the  Center  for  
gifted  teacher.  brilliant  Pastoral Liturgy..  
writer and lover of liturgy,  He  is  also  a  regular  
who has plumbed the depths  columnist  for  Worship  
of anaphora and psyche,  Magazine.  
Labels  attended that school because they were not academically qualified for admittance to Notre  describing their own encount'ers with an incorrect stereotype. "'Is that where Rudy went?' I  College, said that she encounters stereotypes or misconceptions about Saint Mary's as well. "You  to the other side, and the same is true with women's issues as well," she said.  
continued from page 1  Dame. Thirteen  percent  of  the  heard that one a lot," said.stu­dent body vice president Lori  guys aren't the only ones run­ning into this," she said.  Mary Pat Nolan, director of Admissions, admitted that the  
orchestrated by Horvath as a follow-up to the survey. During the introduction of the forum, Horvath listed the types of stereotypes students had encountered as indicated in the survey. The most frequently list­ed stereotypes were directly connected with Saint Mary's relationship with neighboring school Notre Dame. Twenty-nine percent of respondents indicated that Saint Mary's students had been per­ceived as "better looking, less intelligent and easier sexually" than their Notre Dame counter­parts. Twenty-one percent reported that others had assumed Saint Mary's students  respondents wrote that they heard Saint Mary's women were only enrolled at the institution in order to meet and marry a Notre Dame student. Another 13 per­cent said they had been exclud­ed from a conversation or activi­ty once a Notre Dame student learned they were a Saint Mary's student. Other stereotypes that were less perpetuated included the notion that mostly lesbians attend Saint Mary's, that the stu­dent body was comprised mostly of "wealthy snobs" and that Saint Mary's is a school for aspiring nuns. After absorbing the survey's results, students in attendance of the forum immediately began  McKeough. "To contradict the stereotype that Saint Mary's women aren't qualified to attend Notre Dame ... there are many women, including myself, who were admitted to Notre Dame but chose to attend Saint Mary's," she added. "A lot of people asked me if I was going to transfer," said one student of the reactions she received when she told friends and acquaintances of her deci­sion to attend Saint Mary's. "They tried to tell me that a Notre Dame degree is much bet­ter." Rosenbush, who attends sever­al student development confer­ences each year on behalf of the  The discussion also featured suggestions as to how stereo­types are founded, and what can be done to combat them. Several students mentioned that Saint Mary's hosting, and seeming approval of, the Keenan Revue needs to be re-evaluated. "I just think it's a kick in the face," said one student. "I don't think it should be held on this campus." "The [Keenan Revue] is based on real things and real, genuine disrespect," added junior Kelly Curtis. Rosenbush brought the forma­tion process of stereotypes into focus. "Where are people being educated? Homophobia exists because people aren't exposed  stereotypes perpetuated about Saint Mary's women comes into play in her work. "It definitely affects our ability to recruit," she said, citing examples of prospec­tive students who directed ques­tions to admissions counselors about stereotypes they had encountered. College president Marilou Eldred, after quietly absorbing most of the discussion, suggest­ed a method to downplay stereo­types about all aspects of Saint Mary's. "One of the best ways to com­bat stereotypes is with facts and information, even if the immedi­ate reaction [to a stereotype's implications] is through emo­tion," she said, touching on the  



PEACE CORPS 
Information Session 
Tuesday, February 17 Center for Social Concerns 6:00p.m. 
Information Tables 

February 16 -17 Hesburgh Library Lobby Interviews will be conducted at Career Planning and Placement. Call1-5200. 
~isco... 

I~ (800) 424-8580 ~ www.peacecorps.gov 
Jain 9lecSp~-, JJtij,Jlwltft ~ tire anwucan :JWvtt ~~,aciat;Um 
f,oJt OWi tiWtd annual n vdentine ~-~~}v 
SutLda.lf, ~e6tua.'l'f 15 2-4,~s~e Cjtea.t ~i11ea.wa.'fs a.tLd a. ~tea.t wotkout! 
~otLa.tiotL a.t the doo'l 
~tt. ~ 11.1. 
'·~![{;I
t,rWll , ' ' 
I. 

' I ' 
frustration and pain expressed by students throughout the course of the evening. 
"There are some facts we aren't going to change. Notre Dame is here. They have more money ... and they can do things that we can't," she said. "But that does"not mean that we can­not still try and work on this relationship." 
In concluding remarks, McKeough stated that she felt that Saint Mary's should put more effort into marketing itself as a women's college and a very separate entity from Notre Dame. 
"We need to_better publicize what our own alumnae have done," she said. 

Tough test? 
Call someone for sympathy. 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRF DAM!' Ot'rl<'L: 1'.0. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 6.~1-7471 
SAINT MARY's OHICI': 309 llaggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5.365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad PrC"ndergasr 
Miln<~ging Editor Business Manager 
IJmic Heisler Tom Roland 
Assi~t.~nt M.uuging Editor 

1hn Ckh.tl~ki News Editor...... ......Hc:ad1cr Cock~ Advertising Manager.. ...............Jed Pcrers Viewpoint Editor .....................Kelly Brook!~ Ad Design Manager ....................jennifer Bn::slow Sports Edi1or. .................... Mike Day Production Manager ........................ Mark DeBoy Al:ccnt Editor..... . ........ Joey Crawford Sysu~ms Manager ......................Michad Brouillet S;~int M;uy's Editor ........... Lori Allen Con !roller .......................................... Kyle Carlin Photo Ediwr ....................... Katie Kroener 
rhe Ob.,crvcr i' rhc indcpcndcnt ncw,potpcr publi~hcd by rhc ~rudem~ of the Univcr~iry of Notre Damc c.lu I.J.c and Sainl Mary', (:ollcgt'. lr docs nor necessarily r~flecr rhc policies of rhe administration of either instiuuion. The new... i~ reponed J.' .tct:urardy otnd objectively as po.!!sihlc. Unsigned editorial!! represent the opinion of the motjority of the Editor~in~Chict: M~naging Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Editor, Viewpoint Editor, .Sport~ Editor, Acccru Ediror, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and Associate New... Editor. Commentarie ... leucr ... md lm.idc Columns prc...t-nt the views of the authors, and nor ncces~ ...mily thnsc ofThe Oh..,ervcr. Vit'wpoint ..,pace is availahlc to ;II! members of rhc Nom: O;unc/Sainr Mary's 'ommunity otnd ru .dl readers. ThC' frcC' expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Edil<>r-in-Chiof 6.'11.-4542 llu;ino" Office 6ji-S3U M.maging Editor 6.~ 1-4541 Advwising 63 I -6900/8840 Ncw!I/Pho·.• , 651-5323 Sysloms 631-8839 Sporl.\ 651-4545 Office Manager 631-7471 Acl'C"nt/Saim Motry's 6J 1-4540 Fax 6_31-6927 I lay Edi1or/Vkwpoin1 631-5.30.~ Viowpoinl E-Mail Viowpoinl.l @nd.edu <.:cnC"rallntOrmation 631-7471 AJ E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu 

• POSTCARDS FROM MEXICO 
'You Would Kiss Total Strangers On The Cheek. • • ' 
I
f' the North went to the alTair with an intern but he sending reports of things that the Dave Matthews Band and South and the South went wuuld be doing it in Argnntina. wem happening where you live Counting Crows and U2 and North. you would b1\ reading Every time you got into a cab that would probably never be the Rolling Stones all came and this article in Spanish right to go back to campus after tak­seen anywhere else in the played at once, there would be now. ing the South world because about 12 people in the audi­
If Latin Anwrica was here Shore from 
no one would ence and six of them would he and you were in Latin America. Chicago, you care: No foreign language students you would still he calh\d an would have to White House, whose teachers gave them American. Tlw marginalized hope the dri­Bernadette no O.J., no extra credit for earning. would he the Sioux and the ver wouldn't Jon Benet, no If the North and the South Cherokee, and there would rob you and Pampuch disgruntled traded places, you would kiss have been a massacre in St. leave you postalwork­total strangers on the cheek Paul. Minn. last w1~ek instead penniless on ers. The and I would shake hands with of Chiapas. You probably still thn strent. If President of people I have known all my wouldn't earn. you were the United life. Visitors from all over the 
lnstnad of spending hours in south of the States of world would come to South front of soap operas while border ;md Ameriea Bend and assume you speak doing the laundry by hand in you took a taxi, you would have would have funneled federal Spanish and think you were tlw courtyard. the worn1m who to hope thn driver wouldn't rob funds to his brother, been stupid or lazy if you couldn't livn below nw would be keep­you and leave you penniless on responsible for the slaughter of answer them back. ing one ey1\ on "Seinfnld" and the street. animal-rights activists in L.A., If Latin America was where the otlwr on the spin cyde If this were the South and the torturing reporters on the staff you arc and Gringolandia was waiting to add softener. You South wnre the North, Canada of the New York Times, and where I am, Honald Heagan would be watching a tnlenovela would have to give the Straits had sexual relations with four would bn your Somoza and that would make "Melrose of Mackinac back to you in leading movie aetresses. The Cindy Crawford would be my Place" look like a convent. 1999 but would keep implying only thing the world would Rigobcrta Menchu, 
Your little sister would be that your country is too corrupt focus on was that the musical Subcomandante Marcos would staring in thn mirror trying to to take care of it yourself. group "Menudo" was staging a be the Mexican Hambo and figure out how to dyn hnr blond Part of your illustrious Irish­comeback. Oprah Winfrey would be the hair black. how to make her Catholic family would be in All the best movies would be 1\rnerican Cristina Saralegui: hips bigger. lwr lips fuller. Guatemala right now sending in Spanish and you would have the Spice Girls would still be, Dark-skinned Barbies would be you money to pay for your text­to read the subtitles in English unfortunately, the Spice Girls, easy to find. books, your brother would be instead of watching the aetion. and you might actually be 
Tom Sawyer would be drift­pieking strawberries so you In January, everyone in the worldly enough to recognize ing down the Amazon in a raft, could order Papa John's. Even world would be glued to the most of the people I just men­!.aura Ingalls Wildl'r colonizing if your family was really television watching the Super tioned. tlw natives in tlw jungle, wealthy and owned half of Bowl and you would be waiting (;abriel Garcia Marqtwz would Guatemala, your classmates for the World Cup to begin, if Bernadette Pampuch (SMC he rnquired rnading in all high would assume they picked the North went to the South. '97) lives in Mexico City. schools, Macondo the name of strawberries. Hap and techno would be thanks to Ricardo Arjona for an imaginary Midwestern If you tried to take square­considered hokey folk-music, the inspiration for this piece. town. Snow would b1\ exotic. daneing classes or learn to dog and any music involving a The first person who can iden­you would celebrate summer or ate peanut-butter-and-jelly wooden flute or an aecordian tify Somoza, Menchu, Marcos vacation right about now. I sandwiches everyone in would be played in Coach's and and Saralegui wins a care would lm in Mexico City or America wuuld sneer at you the Linebacker while you got package ofMexican candy. Santo Domingo visiting and tell you you weren't "play­drunk oil' of some kind of alco­Comments and questions to J)isneylandia. ing the game" and that you hol and danced in twos and bpampuch@hotmail. com. 
If' we turrwd tlw world upside wern being anti-American. twos with a partner, always. If down, Prnsident Clinton would If' things were changed, I you organized a concert in still h1\ accUSI\d of having an would be working for the for­Stepan Center of musie you 
eign offices of Tnlevisa News, and your friends really liked, if 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
50L£TSsa?TCVTaJR. FttUtVG5 A8a!TTH& PR£5/Pt:NT. YaiVG LAP/?tu4NT7{) 60FIR5T?' --.  14/Hl?N Ya.t FIR~THeARl? 7HAT 7Ht3 PR$1!?13NTM/6HTHAVl3 CARR/&/? ONA ROMANC£IN 7ll!3 U/H/7!3'HOUSt!3,tuHATNA9 WR. F/R~TTHOU6HT~  



VIEWPOINT
Thursday, February 12, 1998 page 9 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Physical Education Is a Needed Break 
1 nn1st admit, entering Notre Dame, I was a little surprised to hear that we all had to take PE, and yes, my friends chuckled when I told thmn I had to take a swim test. Yet now, a month into·my second semester and four rotations later, I could not imagine the year without PE. N?t long a~o. the Inside Colu~n of The Observer featured an art1cle by Bnan Kessler. In thrs articlr. Brian publicly criticized the phys-ed programs here at Notre Dame that all freshmen are required to take. He failed to sec the benefit of PEat all, founding the program to be "com­pletely useless for most." I struggle to relate with Brian at ~~1. 
PE is more than merely an "annoyance to most freshmen. The freshmen I know look forward to PE. For them, despite the heavy work load, PE is a chance to get out of the class­rooms, get out of the dorm, and try something new. For not even two hours a week, which is a fraction of the time we waste doing a number of things, PE gives us a chance to do something with our peers we would not normally have a chance to do. 
PE is not required so that students can get in shape. This is a serious misconception. Instead, PE gives freshmen the opportunity to have classes which will take them out of their eomfort zone. become active. and give them the chance to try unique classes. Where else docs a school offer ?lasses in fenc­ing, golf and dancing? The fact that these rotatwns are filled 
up so quickly is an indi­
cation that students are excited about trying something different. Of 
course not all students 
are fortunate enough get the "good" rota­tions, but should the school get rid of PE and rob so many students of their amazing experi­ences? 
Still, there is more to PE then a few good 


1::::;:::==:;:::===:::;=:;::;:::1 rotations. All the rota­/2/:~S ,.L-_ 1 tions offer smaller / / / ~. ';) :;{ classes and a more 
.__ __/ ~ Ienthusiastic environ­--ment which contributes 
1 to providing freshmen with the perfect oppor­tunity to meet new peo­ple. PE is an atmos­
; phere out of the class­: rooms which allows 
-1J new students to become I familiar with the athlet­
I 
ic facilities, get a little l exercise and, perhaps, , influence them to habit­j uate an athletic lifestyle for the future. 
As for bad rotations, 
j my_ roo~mate failed his sw1mmmg test and was forced to take two rota­
1 

1 tions of swimming. V l That was the last thing 
~'-----------------' he wanted; going to the pool everyday between classes and be taught like a 4-year-old. Looking back though, he loved the class ~nd is n_ow a _st_r?nger swimmer than I ever was. Also, classes hke basic activities and exercise for fitness, though not exactly what some people are looking for, provide just the right mix of activities for oth­ers. Furthermore, PE gives us an opportunity to meet fascinating stall'. So many upperclassman can tell you dozens of stories about coaeh O'Sullivan. Ilis outgoingness may be intimidating at first. but his humor and enthusiasm for sports makes him impossible not to love. And although coach is remembered more for his teaching of golf. he teaches almost every rotation. including ~asic activi­ties. I haV!~ not only been inspired by the enthusrasm of coach O'Sullivan. but by Michelle Gelfman, who has taught me tennis and social dancing. Not too many people I know have such a unique blend of passions and talents as both of these former coaches. As for the criticisms of PE, please consider that there is no difl'erence between PE not allowing more then one skip per rotation, and all freshmen academic classes which allow no more then three skips per semester. Concepts of wellness, although it may not seem that exciting, educates students on the Universities' philosophy concerning many social concerns. Finally, students are suggested not to try activities they are already proficient in so that they will attempt to develop new skills. It is unfortunate that not everyone's experience of PE has been as positive as my own, and so many freshmen. I am sur­prised though that someone woul? become s~ bitter after miss­ing more than one class in a rotatiOn that h_e _Isunable to se~ any of the ben111its of PE. Even more surpnsmg, that the bit­terness would fail to see the enjoyment so many fellow class­mates get out of the class. Joseph Howarth Freshman, St. Edward's Hall February 9, 1998 
• THE BELLE OF SAINT MARY's 
It has long been my policy to mogul skiing ()xperts! .•. avoidsubjectingmy reade~~t() T't-· ··· . · LTOH.N:s•··•·TB_.._~~­
__ o··. high-handed moralizing ap()11t . pressing current events; I Ieav.e C<)ntinue to keep us posted on 
that responsibility to those who tile heart-stopping action from are truly worthy -to such ... luge rl)Jl. ~c~ttJ "Yfllreturn responsible community le;!liers ne~.J'uesda;y. Now, to 
as Jerry Springer. It's simply not eedskating! 
my place to SPEED· 
type things SKATING 
:~:~~ Mary fetlf' ~~"' 
out there Matt, 
:~~a:·t Ellis ~:f:~:a 
think that dimension-character alcomput­has any er al1imat­bearing on .. .. ed color job performance, ask yourself if m ofthe course the you would send your child to a skaters wiUbe taking on in day care center run by a person tonight's c()lp.petition: > who happens to sell hen;f D ~ljt:Jf)IO ijO~J':
her spare time," or: "You ... w an OvaL . . ·-•· ·.•..•.·•· . T 
who 1really wish would fall off SPEEDSKATING COLOR COM-
the face of the Earth? That MENTATOR: Most of you proba-. 
woman on 'The Nanny.'" ~p l ant ·.... b!Y ~:r~m't ···· .lli~r.:w~th sp~ed".) ],•. 
going to restrict myself to purely · s~atirig; ... ... to gr~p the con., · 
nonpartisan observations con.-. cept of the a:rena. As you can 
cerning the overrated, over-•· , the skaters will start at this 
whelming, horribly covered of the rink• and then go all 
Winter Olympic Gaines. ..····· · ·until thl}y'te 
The last time the youth ofthl:l t back athey started! 
world gathered for the heroic BLAND STUDIO HOST: Sorry 
quest for several large endorse., tgcut'you off, Dave, butwe cer~ 
ment contracts; we saw all$ort$ •·· ~lillY don1tWantto ~~~u:ptte
of stirring displays of the ···· ·· !'!v~ryone with justone event! 
Olympic spirit, which was Next up, the Men's Super C 
proudly sponsored by Burger Nordic biathlon slalom downhill, 
King. In the summer of 1996~.w:e ·•... ~~»(rv.·ed byfQQr·second scenes ··•······• 
tearfully watched the heart-...· ·· ...• ·· .. from women's ice hockey, the ski . 
warming outcome of the jlllnp, the tWo-man bobsled; the 
women's gymnastic team compe-women's bobsled, the non-gen­
tition, in which spunky little qered. bo})s~e~1 and an overpro-. 
Kerri Strug, in an emotionally •· dU;i::ed feature weeping over an 
charged moment that will be athlete who, apparently like 
fondly remembered by every otherathlete here in 
Americans for generations, Nagano, h~overcomeagreat 
ignored an injured anklet() dealofadve;rsity and strifeto 
courageously run to the NBC represent his or her war-torn 
announcer's booth and punch country. And after your local 
out "gymnastics commentator" Qews, stay tuned for our two-
John Tesh. . h()ur wrap!Jp show fe~turing 
The most enjoyable aspect of · capsulized reruns of day-old 
the Winter Games is CBS's cover-footage we've already rushed 
age, which is apparently targeted past you. .. · 
to \li(;lwers on crack, It leaps . . In~depth~ports reporting such. 
annoyingly from event to event as this makes it painfully difficult 
with a wild randomness that for me to keep up with the events 
would awe any man who ever I enjoy, such as figure skating, as 
held a remote control: •. opposed to t}le luge, w:hich looks 
BLAND STUDlO HOST: H.L tidicuJous~arid the dollbleluge,i 
Notice how my hair isfabulously which looks obscene 1.1t worst 
unaffected by the large CBS logo ar:ld a violation of duLac at best. 
that is constantly superimposed _· Jwish thb UnitedStates were ·... 
overmy left !)boulder. We'r¢ glad ••· })9stl-ng.tl} ._interG~me.s this ..... · 
you could join us here in Nagano ·•· year. Pres ... Clintonrepre­
for complete Olympic coverage, sented us with such dignity and 
all presented as ifit hadn'ttaken .. h9norwith his majestic entrance 
place over 24 hours ago! JJie. . Jnj,o the J)p~l}ing cer~~onies of 
excitement never stops, except of •··.. the Atlanta Games, when he ·· 
course for Oprah and half-hour strode collfidently into the arena, 
commercial breaks and the soap pnmdly representing the South; 
operas that wo11ld cause t]le . .. <hig. copntr and del'll99racy 
loudest amount of audience cab · Jtself, at . . . . until ~.ana if you · 
erwauling if they were pre-empt· • don't believe nie 1have it on tape 
ed by anything less important --he tripped over thetarp cov­
than nuclear war. We now go to · gthe · a'sfloorlirnmedb 
a large snow-covered mountain })o . . . his approval rat~ 
for snowboarding action. Don't mgs by 5 percent. Which, as 
inhale! Ha hal I've warned you, I won't com­
(Two~second dip of American ment on. · 
snowboarder beginning t}l(t 
course and immediately falling '~iary t1ithEllis is a junior 
down.) English writing/political science 
BLAND STUDIO HOST: Wasn't . rn(l}or at $qint Mary's College. 
thatexciting! We'll have ~()re ~he is Ci! · the{)lympic 
snowboardingin about three champio .. ·. erica'smost 
hours. Now to the ladies' figure popular winter sport,. the 
skating competition with color Endless Videotaping ofOlympic 
commentary from Scott Pf'Cfg · rder tof'ast-, 
Hamilton. Scott? war . .ugh Commercialsili 
SCOTT HAMILTON: Folks, you the Ski Jump, and Other Crap to 
won't believe the excitement Get to the Parts Which Feature 
here at the rink. Here we see a ¥ale Fi Skaters ipReally 
clos(liup of Michelle KWaJ;~. Sitting ti9f1tR . ··· .. ·· ......... ·••··........ •···· .... · 
around in her warm-up suit · · · ·· · The vtewsexpressedin this 
BLAND STUDIO HOST: Scott,· column are those ofthe author 
our audience can't take much and no · s!:farily those ofThe 
more technicaljargonfrontyou····. (}p$(!]'(1 
.;-;::{}{'''"" 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A Letter to 
Justin Brumbaugh 
Dear Justin, 
I was not your best friend. I did not live in your dorm. I did not meet you freshman year, I met you this year. But still, I feel that I know you quite well. I know you from the hallways of Knott, where you would sing crazy rock hits in a German accent. I know you from the whistling I would hear from behind a closed door. I know you from your lip-synching to White Lion or your jamming on a toy guitar. These things you did to make me laugh, to make me smile, to make me feel welcome as a visitor to your sec­tion. You did your job to perfection. 
I know more about you than these things, however. From the Masses I have attended at Knott the past three nights, I know that you loved your family and took pride in each and every member. I know that you had a positive outlook on life, not letting the little things get to you. I know that you worked hard, but always had time for your friends, or even just acquaintances who needed rides to the airport. I know that you had hope and wanted to make a difference in this world with your efl'orts on race relations. I know that you paid atten­tion to all of the people whom you encountered, inviting the scrawniest of freshmen to play basketball with you. I know that you had a quiet side, when you reflected on the world and simply watched others. I know that you were more than just a column in a newspaper or a passing mention on the news. For all of the things I have mentioned. you were truly an amaz­ing person. But these are not the only things for which I want to give you thanks. 
I want to thank you most of all for a simple reason: in knowing you both in life and in death, we have grown. By we, I mean myself, your friends, your section mates, your dorm mates, your classmates, your peers, and the entire community of people whom you touched. In our sorrow for your death. we have learned to cele­brate the gift of life. In our tears, we have learned to comfort each other. In our questions, we have found some answers. Through the mourn­ing, we have grown together. 
Tonight I went to a Mass in the Knott Hall chapel, organized by the participants of the race retreat you recently attended. I also found out tonight that my grandmother is criti­cally ill, so I wanted to pray both for her and for you. As I spoke my inten­tion, I could barely form the words and I began to cry. Yet as Mass ended, I was surrounded by loving words and hands, from people of every color. As you touched them during the retreat, they touched me tonight, and showed me what life is all about, togetherness. I have no doubt that they would have reached out to me regardless of the situation, but in their kindness I felt your influ­ence and your presence. I truly believe that you were there, and will be there for my grandmother if that is what is in God's plan. 
So, Justin, what you set out to 
accomplish on Earth was not lost by 
me. You showed that life is about 
other people, about connections, 
about forgetting differences, and 
about growing together in love. I may 
not be able to attend your funeral as 
I had planned, but I don't feel that I 
have to say goodbye. You will be with 
us always. 
Amy Rosinski Senior, Lewis Hall February II, 1998 

-----~­

Thursday, February 12, 1998
page 10 
****stars 
out of five

mick harvey Pink Elephants 


backbone 


various artists 


T
wenty years ago, Mick llarvey first appeared on Melbourne's music seene writing and per­forming with Nick Cave in The Birthday Party and subsequently became the premiere mem­ber of Cave's backup band, The Bad Seeds, aftnr the 1982 demise of The Birthday Party. 
In addition to working on all of the Bad Seeds albums, he has maintained a strong presence else­where in the music industry, producing P.J. Harvey and Anita Lane as well as performing in the now­defunct Crime and the City Solution. In 1995 he released Intoxicated Man which was a collection of songs written by French pop idol Serge Gainsbourg and translated into English by llarvey. The recently mleased follow-up Pink Elephants contains 16 newly translated and revised Gainsbourg songs completing his Gainsbourg homage. 
The selections on Pink Elephants reflect several dif­ferent periods in Gainsbourg's career beginning with the only original composition, "Pink Elephants," which sets the mood for the rest of the album. The selections here arc lighter than those on the first album whieh explored Gainsbourg's more personal and disturbing songs. This shift in subject matter is matched by a more refined sound on the second album. In "The Javanaisn," tlw story of a l"aih~d lovn affair is told by the couple's last dance tognther with music that perfectly evokes the l"enling of thn ball­room floor. Most significantly missing on Pink Elephants is the vocal accompaniment Anita Lane provided on the lirst album. I fer only appearances on this album comn on "The Ballad of M1~lody Nelson" and "I Love You ... Nor Do f" which wern both l"mt­tured in 1993 as B-sides. On both of these tracks. lwr voice enraptures the listmwr with haunting sensuality and beauty. 
The final three tracks arn tlw wPaknst on tlw album and feel like what thny an~ -Iiller. All tim~~~ were B-sides to the singlns fri11n Intoxicatnd Man and wind the album down on a wnak notn. 
Pink Elephants is proof of Miek llarvey's skill as a composer and plHformer. It also pays homage respectfully to the memory of Snrge (iainsbourg who has almost bnen forgottnn d1~spitn his important role in the creation of modern popular music. 
by Stuart Smith 

A
fter the untimely death of Jerry Garcia in 1995, the remaining members or the Grateful Dead set off on their own separate paths, some starting new bands. and some simply taking time off. Bill Krnutzmann, one of the Dead's two drummers and eo-founders, was among those who deeidnd to avoid the music scene and take two years off in llawaii. Aftnr thn itch to play music got to him. he has finally formed a new group and has taken a refreshed approaeh. which is reflected in thn new Grateful Dead llncords release, Baekbone. 
The three-man band. -composed of Kreutzmann, Hick Barnntt on vocals and guitars. and Edd Cook on bass, vocals and sax -has taken a very simple, laid back approach to its new sound. The album, consist­ing of mostly new material from songwriters Barnett and Cook. eomplnments a recent string of concerts played on the West Coast including a reminiscent performance at the famed Fillmore West in San Francisco. 
***stars 
out of five

Backbone 
Essentially, the album eonsists of straightforward blues and rock themes with a new-age sort of sound added, reflecting tho new styiP for a nnw era in Bill Kreutzmann's music making carePr. llow!WIH', many of the blu1~s songs fail to capturn tlw exciting drum rhythms of which Kreutzmann is rapahk Ynt, it is worth noting that any listmwr should not lw looking for old Grateful Dead matnrial. although llw old I>Pad favorite "New Speedway Boogie" makes an entertain­ing appearance. 
by Dave Clark 
****stars

Bridge School Concerts 
Vol. 1 
T
he Bridge School, located in Hillsborough, Calif.. was founded in 1987 to providn a prop­er education for children with snvere speech and physical handicaps. Every year. a handful of well-known artists participate in the annual con­cert benefiting the Bridge School. This lirst volume of the Bridge School Concerts--reads like a who's who of rock from the 60s until the present. The various musicians on this compilation album spin off some beautiful arid reflective songs that suddenly mean much more when played for this kind of concert. 
The album starts with Neil Young, the founder and organizer of the benefit show, performing "I Am a Child," a song that resonates through with his excep­tional acoustic guitar and harmonica. Young's contri­bution to this album hits even closer to home for him because he has two handicapped children of his own. Tom Petty's "Shadow of a Doubt (A Complex Kid)" continues the common theme of childhood with his distinctive voice over his percussive guitar licks. Other tracks that stand out are Simon and Garfunkel's timeless classic "America," David Bowie's triumphant "Heroes," and Nils Lofgren's piano-set "Believe." Even Pearl Jam gives a rare unforgettable performance of their somber ballad "Nothingman." 
Some of the more enjoyable songs are the refresh-
out of five 
ing covers such as Don llenlny's I'!)Working of The Beatles' hit "Yes It Is." The Lovnmongers, a volatih~ female duo, pull ofT a powerful tribute to Led Zeppelin with their take on "Battle of Evermore," and Ministry befriends The Grateful Dead with their ren­dition of "Friend of the Devil." 
Although there arc a few low points on this disc, two songs seem to stiek out like sore thumbs. Patti Smith's "People Have the Power" brings the album to a very abrupt end. "It's All in Your Mind," courtesy of Beck, has me wondering how he is the "Artist of the Year" for every publication known to man. I guess I am still the only person in the world that has yet to appreciate the breakthrough music of Beck. 
The Bridge School Concerts Vol. 1 is a great pieee of music for a tremendous cause. When musicians get together to celebrate something they believe in, they have the potential to make something beautiful. This album is an example of some of that musical beauty which truly has the ability to· toueh us with some powerful emotion. 
by "GeoffDaddy" Rahie 


1.} The Cure-Galore 7.} Cornershop-When I Was 2.} Everclear-So Much For the Born For The 7th Time Afterglow 8.} G. Love & The Special 3.} Pearl Jam-Yield Sauce-Yeah, It's That Easy 4.} Green Day-Nimrod 9.} Ben Folds Five-Naked Baby 5.} Ani DiFranco-Little Plastic Pictures Castle 10.} Pee Shy-Don't Get Too 
TOP10 

6.} Lisa Loeb-Firecracker Comfortable 
~----------------------------------------------------------------------------------~--~~----~--------------~~~~~i_· 
·-·~~· 

Thursday, February 12, 1998 page 11 

****stars

various artists Ska Island 
out of five 


S
ure, you've heard the Skalcoholiks at the Irish Connection. Chances are good you own 
all of No Doubt's disks and can sing every 
word of that Mighty Mighty Bosstones tune that you hear on the radio. When someone mentions the word "ska," you quickly retort, "Yeah, I love Reel Big Fish!" While you may think you know a lot about that crazy, danceable groove, chances are good you don't know the first thing about ska. l am here to help you. 
In the late 1950s, Caribbean calypsos and island rhythms developed into a lazy Jamaican R&B shuffle called a "blue beat." In the early 60s this music emphasized off-beat guitar and piano licks, and ulti­mately resulted in the music known as ska. Both of these styles are captured quite successfully on the compilation Ska Island, a 1997 release by Island Records. One of the original Jamaican labels, Island smoothly amalgamates some of today's best artists with the original ska masters, presenting classic tunes that paved the way for present-day skanksters. 
The album opens with the two biggest names in ska, Prince Buster and the Skatalites. Their remake of Jimmy Cliffs "King of Kings" demonstrates why both have been as prominent as they are for more than 30 years. Much like any 1960s Wailers or Toots Hibbard cut, the Skatalites lay down an irresistible groove that perfectly complements the vocalist. Buster follows their lead and belts out a tale of rude­boy folklore, the sound system wars. 
After one of their signature ska-jazz tunes, "Magic Star," the Skatalites arc joined by Doreen Shaffer, one of two original Skatalites vocalists. She performs a danceable love song entitled "Can't You See." The tune is highlighted by Ms. Shaffer's swooping pleas and Roland Alfonso's mastery of the tenor saxo­phone. Dr. Ring-Ding, Laurel Aitken, and trombonist Rico Rodriguez also appear on the album, unfurling their ageless talents. 
Modern-day sensations Hepcat, Jump With Joey, the Toasters, and Fishbone offer their take on classic ska material, covering tunes by Bob Marley, Duke Reid, and Ernest Ranglin. 
Ska Island is a terrific album, a valuable insight into the roots and present-day ska grooves. If you're interested in ska, definitely check it out. For more information, check out Island Records at www.island40th.com. 
by Matt Butte[ 
curve 

• 

****stars 
out of five

Come Clean 
I
n early 1991, Britain's carnivorous music press was desperate to label any new trend "the next big thing." What they happened upon was "The Scene That Celebrates Itself"'; a group of bands from the south of England who not only sounded a lot alike, but who actually seemed to enjoy each other's company. The collective sound was tagged "dream pop," taking its inspiration from such atmospheric acts as The Cocteau Twins and My Bloody Valentine. Some of these new bands, such as Lush and RIDE, even toured together for extended periods of time. Also, premium one-off gigs like Slowdive, Chapterhouse and Revolver playing together for a night in Newcastle or Sheffield became familiar occurrences. 
Other than Lush, which is still reeling from the 1996 suicide of drummer Chris Acland, the only band to transcend and survive this experience has been Curve. Curve is essentially the brainchild of core members Toni Halliday (vocals) and Dean Garcia (bass). Curve was always more synthetically driven than any of its counterparts, and the band's plunge into the depths of electronica has only become more pronounced on Come Clean. 
"Alligators Getting Up" takes the listener on a trip­py ride of robotic staccato, while "Beyond Reach" causes eyes to yearn upwards and squint at its sun­rise-like unfolding. But it's the driving, well-har­nessed angst of songs like "Dogbone" and "Forgotten Sanity" that will give this record the risque notoriety that previous Curve efforts did not. 
If you have a chance, this band's live performances (often in small venues) are especially riveting. Amidst the smoke and lasers at Chicago's Metro or ...: Washington, D.C.'s newly revamped 9:30 Club, you'll feel Curve's calm, electronic wrath pulsate through your mid-section. After two or three songs, you'll already start rehearsing what you're going to tell your friends when you get home. 
by Sean King 

upcoming ALAN JACKSON/DEANNA CARTER Cherry Poppin' Daddies Mighty Blue Kings Ben Folds Five Jimmy Buffett RunDMC Primus/Blink 182 The Crystal Method The Chieftains Matchbox 20 Counting Crows Govt Mule Megadeth Guster/Dovetail Joint/19 Wheels Blur Third Eye Blind/Smashmouth Puff Daddy & The Family Jars Of Clay/Plumb Roni Size Reprazent Blue Meanies Ben Harper The Skatalites/Let's Go Bowling/Skapone  FEB.13 Feb. 13 Feb. 14 Feb. 15 Feb. 16 Feb.22 Feb.27 Feb.28 March 1 March 8 March 10-11 March 12 March 13 March 14 March 15 March 16 March 20 March 21 March 21 Macrh 22 March 23 March 27  JOYCE CENTER ARENA Clutch Cargo's (Pontiac) Citi Lounge (Toledo) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) The Palace (Auburn Hills) Palladium (Roseville, MI) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) House Of Blues (Chicago) Clowes Memorial Hall (Indianapolis) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Vogue Theatre (Indianapolis) Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Metro (Chicago) Riviera (Chicago) Murat Theatre (Indianapolis) Rosemont Horizon (Rosemont, IL) Pepsi Coliseum (Indianapolis) Metro (Chicago) Jackhammer (Chicago) Vogue Theatre (Indianapolis) Metro (Chicago)  

~·~--­

~-----.~~-­
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS 
•NBA 

Pacers continue winning ways 
Associated Press Hardaway had 32 points for Mason in mid-air, nipped the the Heat, who shot 4 7 percent ball underneath the hoop with MIAMI but were hurt by 17 turnovers. his left hand and banked it in. 
Heggie Miller scon~d 30 points Alonzo Mourning had 21 points Glen Rice led Charlotte with and the Indiana Pacers survived and 15 rebounds before fouling 29 points. including 13 in the a late rally by the Miami Ilnat to. out late in the game. The Pacers fourth quarter. win the battle of division leaders outscored Miami 11-2 to lead The Hornets trailed 86-82 II 0-10 I Wedrwsday night. 54-37 late in the first half, then before Rice hit a 3-pointer from 
The Pacnrs. who arn first in scored the first six points of the the left corner with 1:59 left to the Central Division. built a 22-second half to make it 64-42. cut the lead to one. Dennis point lead in the third period Not even foul trouble for Hik Hodman split two free throws and won for the ninth time in I 0 Smits and Dale Davis could slow with 1:46 r~maining and Rice games. They broke a four-game down the Pacers, who improved tied the game at 8 7 -all with a winning streak by the Ileal. who to 15-0 when scoring at least pull-up jumper from the base­lead the Atlantic Division. 100 points. line. 
The II eat gave up 100 points Jordan hit one of two free
Chicago 92, Charlotte 90
for the first time in 12 games, throws with 1:12 left and Pippen 
and for the first time at home CIIARI~OTTE rejected Rice in the lane and 
sinee Dee. 16. Michael Jordan scored 29 grabbed the loose ball to set up 
Indiana won the season series points. ineluding a spectacular Jordan's heroics. 3-1 and improved to 16-9 on the reverse layup with 35.8 seconds The Bulls led by four points road, the best in the Eastern left. to lead the Chicago Bulls to entering the fourth, but a free Conference. a 92-90 victory over the throw by J.R. Reid, Rice's first 3­
The Heat trailed 73-51 before Charlotte Hornets on pointer of the game and a foul­rallying. Keith Askins' 3-pointer Wednesday night. line jumper by Hice gave made it 81-73 with 11 minutes Scottie Pippen added 23 for. Charlotte its first lead, 68-66. left, and Miami hit four eonseeu­the Bulls, who won the season The teams traded baskets until tivn 3-point attempts -includ­series 3-1. Pippen hit an 18-footer and Toni ing three by Tim Hardaway-to The Hornets had a ehanee to Kukoc buried a 3-pointer for a cut the deficit to l 05-101 with win at the buzztlr, but Vernon 77-72 Bulls lead. 
I:22 remaining. Maxwell's desperation 3-pointer Pippen hit shot 6-of-9 in the 
But Antonio Davis scored on a banked off the glass and rim first quarter and scored 12 clunk, and two free throws by and missed. points. He was also the primary Jalen Hose clinched the victory The Bulls led 88-87 when defender on Rice, who scored for the Pacers. who shot 51 per­Jordan drove the right baseline, only four points in the opening cent from the field. jumped and avoided Anthony quarter on 1-of-6 shooting. In the battle of division leaders, Reggie Miller scored 30 points as the 
Pacers went on to defeat the Heat 110-101 . 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Jones, WVU up~et No. 6 UConn 
Associated Press receive first-round byes in the givn West Virginia a 4:~-37 conference tournament. lnad. MORGANTOWN, W.Va. It was the Mountaineers' first After Connecticut closed tlw 
Senior guard Greg Jones, victory over the IIuskies since deficit to 57-51, Adrian Pledger making the first start of his joining the Big East three years scored live consecutive points career, scored 18 points to lead ago and was their lirst over a and .Jones hit an off-balance 3­No. 16 West Virginia to an 80-Top 10 team since beating No. pointer to build the 62 victory 
8 Temple in Morgantown in Mountaineers' lead bal".k to (>7­over No. 6 1994. 52. The Huskies would not get Connecticut Jones, inserted in the starting within 10 points again. Wednesday lineup after scoring 23 points Hamilton led Connecticut night. in a loss to St. John's on with 19 points. Freshman 
The victory Saturday, provided an early guard Khalid El-Amin, who 
puts West spark with 11 points in the lirst scored 29 points in the 
Virginia (20-half. Jones hit his first five lluskies' win over West 
4, 10-4) back shots, including two 3-pointers, Virginia in December, was held 
in the chase Jones as West Virginia built a 20-13 to seven points Wndrwsday on 
for first place lead with 12:07 left in the lirst 3-of-8 shooting. 
in the Big East 6. The half. Jarrod West and l'ledg1~r 
Mountaineers arc tied with St. Richard Hamilton scored each scorPd 15 points for Wnst 
John's, one-half game behind eight straight points for Virginia, while Owens added Connecticut (21-4, 10-3). The Connecticut as the Huskies took 12. winners of each of the Big a 30-26 lead with 5:20 left. Brent Solheim grabbed 16 
East's two divisions and the There were six lead changes rebounds for West Virginia, second-place team with the before halftime. Damian Owens which outrebounded the 
Jarrod West scored 15 points as West Virginia knocked off Connecticut. best winning percentage hit a 3-pointer at the buzzer to Huskies 47-3(>. 


Classifieds  The Observer accepts classilieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College C:rnrer. Deadline t(>r ncxHiay clas· sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cenrs per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds t(>r conrenr without issuing refunds.  
EARLY CHILDHOOD DEVELOP· House For Rent MENT CENTER Two Blocks From CaNOTICES 4-5 Bedroom. DishwaThe Early Childhood Development Washer/Dryer, Large THE COPY SHOP -Center at Notre Dame. located at Off Street Parking. LaFortune Student Center 18680 Bulla Road, is currently June 98 tor Summer, WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE. accepting applications from college Fall. FREE MONITORED AND WEEKENDS!!! students tor part time positions. The TY SYSTEM! Mon-Thur 7:30am · Midnight hours vary, including 7:30 · 9:00 Call 289-4712  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY Looking tor a unique gift tor your Why is it that the Progressive mpus 219-291-7153 valentine? Student Alliance, an unrecognized sher, Bring in your favorite pictures and campus group, gets to use campus Backyard and we'll create a custom color calendar facilities? Wasn't this the sameFOR SALE for your sweetie. Same day turn· "excuse" used to kick GLND/SMC August for around. Any twelve month combi­out of university facilities??? SECURI­PC-CDROM games $10-25; nation. Hohner Aco.GUITAR $175/best. -THE COPY SHOP -Because the Progressive Student 634·1926 LaFortune Student Center Alliance is in the process of obtain- 

Fri  7:30am • 7:00pm  a.m. MTWThF and  ing recognition, the University has  
Sat Noon · 6:00pm Sun Noon · Midnight  11:15a.m. -1:05p.m. TTH.Ifyou are interested in applying, please  FURN, 1 BDRM APT.. AIR, PAl· VATE KITCHEN. ENTRANCE,  PERSONAL  ••• * •••••••••• * •••  not yet said that the group can't meet, which it HAS done about  
CALL 631-COPY  contact Thayer Kramer, Program  LAUNDRY, PHONE, UTILITIES  SA BOA  LATINO  GLND/SMC.  
ILOST & FOUND I Director, at 631·3344 tor more intor­mation and an application.  INCLUDED $400/MO. ROOM $200/MO. 272-0615.  ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni couple, with adopted 3 year old daughter,  Friday 2/13 esc 9 pm-11 pm  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer.  
1­ wants to shower new baby with  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­ 
'REWARD'  for return of thin gold  ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT  ROOM $128+util Share house w/  love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic  Wed. 2/18  Club Landing  place in winter. Love and joy for  
wedding ring lost 1n Rockne weight  -Fishing industry. Excellent earn·  grad stu Good neighborhd 280­ lawyer dad, and a sister to play  9 pm -1 am  your baby all year long. Happy, car- 
room. Please call Peter @282­ ings & benefits potential.  5274  with. Friends on the swingset, trips  ing professional couple would love  
2449.  Male/Female. No experience nee­ to the zoo, grandma, play groups,  Coming soon: the second CD !  to provide a new born with love, joy  
essary. Ask us how! 517-324-3116  lullabies, too. This is a home where  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ 
Found· Silver Ring in Hayes·Healy Restroom. Call631·8461 to identify.  ext. A55841  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR JPW AND OTHER ND·SMC  wishes come true. We'd like to get to know you. Call Shawn & Meg  SA BOA LATINO ............."'····  800-484-7011 Pin #4523  
Debbie  EVENTS.  800-767-4257.  
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS • 5  Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid.  A qualquier escribe esas notas en  
Lost·  NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­ MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK.  don't like this  espanol-obtenga una vida, por  
14K Gold pinkie ring. Call Debbie.  Discover how to work in America's  243-0658.  STOMPER BOB AND SKALCOHO- want to go home  favor.  
631·8461  Parks. Forests & Wildlife Preserves.  LIKS TONIGHT @ THE IRISH  want to sleep  
Competitive wages + bonuses!  ALL SIZE HOMES  CONNECTION. 10 PM SHOW.  
WANTED  Seasonal/year-round. For informa­tion, call: 517-324-3111 Ext.  CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS- This is the commander: The Minister of Piety has checked  
N55842  VALENTINE CLASSIFIEDS  chica­ these classifieds and deemed them  
5 rides needed home to Maryland  98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar.  DON'T FORGET ABOUT A  yo descubri que algunas personas  appropriate. The Minister of  
Spr. Break. If you can provide any  sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer.  VALENTINE CLASSIFIED FOR  estan mas intersante cuando yo  Intellect, however, has not given his  
or all call Sarah x4003  FOR RENT  1628 Portage Av. 234-3831 273-0482  YOUR SWEETIE.  escribo esto notas en espanol. hasta luego  seal of approval. That is all.  

!..____ 
________ ______________________________....., 
Thursday, February 12, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• Cot•J:Gr t nomAll 
Manning wins Sullivan Award 
Tennessee QB named top amateur athlete 
Associated Press 
NASI IVILLE. Tenn. 

Peyton Manning, who failed to win thn IIeisman Trophy, (:an take heart: The Sullivan Award is all his. 
Thn TPnJWSSPP quarterback on Wednesday bm:ame only thn fourth football player in 68 years honored as the nation's top amateur athlete. 
The announcement in Orlando. Fla.. by the Amateur Athletic Uninn confirmed reports he had won. 
Manning, who was driving to Knoxville for a funeral. could not be reached for comment. Arrhin Manning called the Sullivan Award a wonderful honor for his son. 
"Wiwn you consider all the outstanding amateur athletes around thP country, and it's just the fourth time then~·s ever been a football player to win it, that speaks for itself." Archie Manning said by phone from New Orleans. 
The other football players to win the Sullivan were Florida State's Charlie Ward (1993) and Army's Arnold Tucker (1946) and Doe Blanchard (1945). 
The award is based on ath­letic accomplishments, leader­ship, character and sportsman­ship. 
Manning returned to school last fall rather than entering the NFL draft earlier in the year. 
lie led Tennessee to a Southeastern Conference championship last season and a berth in the Orange Bowl against Nebraska. He also set career rocords~ for passing yardage (10,669) and touch­downs (84) at Tennessee and had the most 300-yard passing games in SEC history with 17. 
Manning, who finished sec­ond to Michigan's Charles Woodson in Heisman balloting, is the first University of Tennessee athlete to win the Sullivan. lie beat Tennessee basketball player Chamique IIoldsclaw and former Wake Forest basketball player Tim Duncan. 

Other finalists included swimmer Chad Carvin, former Florida State baseball player 
J.D. Drew, wrestler Les Gutches, South Carolina soft­ball player Trinity Johnson, disability sports participant Linda Mastandrea, swimmer Jenny Thompson and gymnast Blaine Wilson. 
The Sullivan is Manning's lat­est award. lie outpolled Woodson for the Maxwell Award as the best all-around player and picked up the Davey O'Brien National Quarterback Award and the Johnny Unitas quarterback award. 
Manning will accept the Sullivan Award on Feb. 25 dur­ing halftime of the Tennessee­Florida basketball game in Knoxville, a day after receiving the Maxwell Award in Philadelphia. His father isn't sure which family members will he on hand for the presen­tation in Knoxville. 
"It's kind of hard to keep up with all of Peyton's trips," Archie Manning said. 


•PGA 
Martin wins disability lawsuit 
Associate<! Press three hours, faulted the tour Combs said the tour disagreed for failing to consider Martin's with the ruling and would EUGENE;·Ore. individual medical condition. appeal, but would obey the A judge ruled Wednesday Instead, it emphasized prin-judge. "Now we have the that Casey Martin can ride a Ciples of competition, arguing obligation to furnish Casey golf cart on the pro tour, a a cart would give Martin an Martin a golf cart, and we 
landmark victory in the first advantage and remove the will." case invoking federal disabili­{undan:tQntal of athleticism and Martin's case generated a ties laws to compete in a major stamina that walking • gives the national debate over the rights 
sport. game at its highest levels. of the disabled to compete in
All .. You.. Can..Eat 

When U.S. Magistrate The judge acknowledged professional sports, and an • Thomas Coffin announced his that the walkingconly rule was outpouring of support for him. 
Pizza & Pasta for ruling, Martin smiled slightly. ''substantive" but said the PGA He was featured in a Nike "I nodded his head while looking Tour failed to prove that waiv­Can" campaign and won the at his parents, then turned to ing the rule for Martin :would · support of former presidential
$5.00 

his lawyers and said: "We fundamentally alter competi­candidate Bob Dole. won." tion. "It's so important to so many Martin's lawsuit sought to As for the argument that people," said Martin's lawyer,
• 6:00 p.m.. 8:30 p.m. • use the Americans With walking the course is a test of Martha Walters. " The ruling Disabilities Act to force. the <Stamina,Coffin said 'Walking sets a legal precedent as the PGA Tour to accommodate his l.8 holes over a period of five ADA applies to sports. I would rare circulatory disorder that hours is'"not significantly tax­hope the PGA w~mld see this makes it painful and even dan­ing.'' doesn't cause them a prob­
gerous to walk His doctors say · ''The>fatig-ue level from his lem.'' 
too much stress on his with­condition is easily greater than Walters told the judge in her ered right leg could cause it to ofan able-bodied pers(ln walk­closing argument that Martin break, and may force amputa­ing the same course," Coffin doesn:t want special treat­tion. said. ment, just a chance to com­
Coffin. who deliberated just ,PGA'{'otlr.spokesn:tan Bob pete. 
T 
Tuesday, February 24 • 7:30 p.m. O'Laughlin Auditorium Saint Mary's College 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Adult tickets also available at all ;;c;u;r~ ticket centers including Orbit Music & L.S. Ayres. 
To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272·7979 
To purchase online: http>iiwww.ticketmaster.com 

/Mf~D
l;~ THE ARrs ~NOTRE DAME, IN 
This program is supported by Arts Midwest, a regional 
part;e~h~~9!~~~~i~~~~i~~~? :~~~c~:n~~~~~n~rt~ 

page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, February 12, 1998 
• MEN'S TENNIS 

Sachire's victory not enough as Irish fall to 'Cats 
By SHANNON RYAN Sports Writ.r 
In the final monwnts of yester­day's match against Kentucky, Notrn Damn's Hyan Sachire nxtnndml his arms toward the lwavens while still elutching his raequnt. 
Wildcat Cedric Kaufl'man hung his lwad. kicked his duffel bag, and threw his racquet with a shout of rage. 
Saehim's cnlnbration of' his 6­4, 2-6. 7-5 vic.tory over the num­ber three player in the nation was interruptnd as he discov­ered the Irish lost 4-2 overall. 
Kaufl"man. on the other hand, proceeded with his tantrum. 
"It was the best win I've ever had," said Sachire, 4-1 on the season. "But, obviously, I would have n1uch rather lost and had the team win." 
The neon-lime clad Frenchman wasn't quite as con­enrned with his team. 
"I was personally mad at myself," Kaufl"man said. "I didn't convert and ISachirel did. I'm upset with myself." 
Kentucky, ranked 11th, came into the Eck Pavilion mady to upset an Irish tradition. They were successful at becoming was a ray of hope." 

However, cloudy weather stormed in singles as bad luck began to fall as hard as i\ndy Warford's stumble. Warford, leading 5-2 in the first set, slipped ehasing down a ball and twisted his ankle. After using up his injury time-out, Warford was unable t.o continue, reluetantly handing Kentucky their second" point. 
''I'm real happy Andy's play­ing at such a high level." head coach Bob Bayliss said. "It was a shame he got hurt. Things were beginning to dick for him." 
i\fter Warford's default and Jakub Pietrowski's 2-6, 0-6 crumbling to Marcus Fluitt, the Irish had to win all four matches which remained on the court. 
However, the Irish n~fused to go down without a fight, making the dose to impossible a realis­tic task. 
Team captain Hothschild was welf-aware that his win was vital. Matched up against Johan Hesoun's potent serving, the 6­foot senior made a remarkable comeback to win 6-4, 2-6, 6-3. 
"I just needed to get my confi­dence back [after the second set]," Rothschild said. 
The crowd seemed to be a confidence-builder as well. As Eric Enloe, Sachire and Hothschild persevered through three sets, the eheers swelled with encouragement. Brian Patterson boosted the team, handling Carlos Drada 7-5 in the first set before a close 4-6 Joss in the second. 
Scoreboards were not neces­sary, as the animated crowd deflated when fan-favorite Enloe" lost his pivotal match 2-6, 6-2, 2-6. The sense of defeat loomed as silence, indicating the Kentucky win. 
"I could kind of tell I we lost]," Hothschild who was still playing when the match was decided. "The crowd seemed to settle down." 
Sachire, like Hothschild, refused to relax despite assum­ing the Joss. 
"I could kind of tell we lost by the crowd's intensity," the 
SAINT MARY'S DANCE WORKSHOP CO. 
sophomore said. "You ean never be sure though." 
But Sachire's play didn't imli­cate it was just in case. The Irish's number-one player fought so hard that his first words after the match wern an order of icc for his shoulder and a swig of Gatorade. Sachire gave every ounce of himself, <Tamp­ing up afterward and immedi­ately stretehing out the pain. 
Big returns and solid serving were the main ingredients in his tremendous win. Still Saehire believes that "my bread and butter is my baseline game." 
That must mean his net play is the meat and potatoes. "I think coming to the net has been my biggest improvement," he said. "It's helped me to execute." 
Patterson, too, was en route to a probable destruction of Drada after two sets, 7-5, 4-6. Kentucky called an end to the games, nullifying the mid-play 
KlEBAN HENNESSEY 
dec-pe ~c-ut-2t6t 
lJ:,id~da.~ i6 6in-1--pt'J 
CHeavenfy! 
Love. Morn anci Daci Patrick. Tl1eresa (ND '96) anci Bill (ND '0 I ) 
match and handing Notre Dame tht~ir second straight loss. 
"Our fundamentals brok1~ down," Bayliss said of thn tug­of-war match. "Our !irst-serve percentage was low. We were not hitting through the court. Things happened today that shouldn't happen at this tinH\ in the season." 
But liw the playnrs, it's a mat­ter of the abstract. 
"We 11n1~d to b1~ more competi­tive," Sachire said. "It's an intangible. We need get rid of our lackadaisical attitude and go after things." 
The Irish will get a chance for an adjustment this wcekmtd as they chase down Ohio State Friday and Miami Sunday at home. 
"Hopefully, we can learn from this," Enloe said. "I was very disappointnd that we lost, but if we can take something away from this I think we'II do fine." 



You can be a part of an important clinical research study. 
Do You Have The Flu or Cold Symptoms? 
You may be eligible to participate in a medical research study which will provide: 
-STUDY RELATED CLINIC VISITS I PHYSICAL EXAMS -STUDY MEDICATION FOR THE FLU -LABORATORY TESTS -FINANCIAL COMPENSATION UP TO $150.00 -KNOWLEDGE THAT YOUR PARTICIPATION COULD 
HELP OTHERS IN THE FUTURE 
To qualify to participate you must be between 18 and 65 years of age. Y€lu must have a temperature of at least 100 degrees Fahrenheit and have some symptoms such as sore throat, nasal symptoms, fatigue or aches and pains. Please call us within 36 hours of the onset of these symptoms. 
For more information about this medical research study being conducted in South Bend call: 
1-888-1-GOT-FLU 
Health Advance Institute Medical Research Centers 
Basketball Today 
vs. 


Thursday, February 12, 1998 page 15 
Men 
continued from page 20 
shot much better from the free throw line. It was encouraging to sec Phil Hickey make two and Manner make one." 
The highlight for the big men eame from the free throw line in the final minute of the game. With 1:15 minute remaining, Hickey broke the tie by sinking two free throws to give the Irish the lead 72-70. The fol­lowing play Hickey slapped away the ball, Manner dove on it and Granger fouled him. Manner then sunk one of his two to give the team a three­point lead. Garrity supplied some insurance by sinking his two. and the Irish walked away victorious. 
"He [Hickey] had struggled on the previous ones," MacLeod said about Hickey's big free throws. "He respond­ed in high pressure situations, and that is why this was a big game for him." 
After his performance against Rutgers and Boston College, MacLeod feels that Hickey might be ready to break into the starting line-up against the Hurricanes this weekend. If Manner and Hickey can com­plement Garrity like they did last night, Notre Dame could prove to be a threat in the upcoming Big East tourna­ment. 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Shorin-Ryu Karate-This semester~long course meetsin Rockne Room 219 on Tuesdays and Thursdays from 6-7:30 
p.m. You must register in advance at RecSports and the feeJs $18.00. Call 1-8237. 
Jazz Dance -A Jazz Dance class will be o!Tered Saturdays and Tuesdays from 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m. (Sat.) and 8-9 p.m. (Tues.l in Rockne Rm. 301. 
The Observer/John Daily The women's team returns home to the Joyce Center tonight to face the Red Storm. 
WANTED: MARKETING ASSISTANT MANAGER "The Observer is looking for an Assistant Marketing Manager to help with coordinating the full color advertising spreads that appear regularly such as 'The Bar Page', 'The Map Page', etc. This is a PAID position and we are seeking Sophomore Business Majors. Contact Greg Szilier @4-1695 for more information." Deadline: Saturday, February 21 
Wo01en 
continued from page 20 
exception being a loss to Connecticut on Dec. 6. The Irish recently suffered back-to-hack road losses to Villanova and Miami. 
However, when at home, the Irish have their best outings of the season. In their last home contest, the Irish demolished Seton Hall 91-35, the second­largest margin of victory in Notre Dame history. At one point in the contest, Notre Dame went on a 26-0 during a 10­minute period in the second half. 
"Right now, we've just tried to focus at practice, and realize that we can't change the past," Braendly said. "We've put the past behind us and are going to try to take these last five games of the season one at a time." 
The Irish have had nine days to recover from what can proba­bly be described as their most controversial game of the sea­son, a 77-76 loss to Miami. While junior guard Danielle Green was able to tie the game with six seconds remaining, the Hurricanes' Octavia Blue was fouled on a questionable call with no time remaining. Blue then hit one free throw to end the game. The game was similar to last season's match at Miami, where Notre Dame hit two free throws in the final six seconds to put the game away. 
However, Braendly is confi­dent that the team will rise to the occasion. 
"I think we're really up right now. Villanova and Miami were kind of reality checks for us. We all realize that we each need to step up for the last few games, and that's what we'll try to do." 


Hours 

Mon-Thu 
4-10 Fri & Sat 
4-ll Sun closed 
Welcome Junior Parents! 
1213 Lincolnway West Mishawaka (Francesco was chef at ND for 30 !) 


"\ .. .. .... ( , 
'{ ( f(\ , I f ( I r I ,~ p l ) r • I 

~ 
. . . . 
page 16 The Observer· CLUB SPORTS Thursday, February 12, 1998 

The Observer/Kevin Datum 
Notre Dame's ultimate team has its eye set on qualifying for nationals. 

~­
rncord and hopes to improvn upon it this year. 

"Last y1~ar was a great year, nspPcially winning our section and our strong showing at the regionals," Kerbloski said. "Our goal this year is to makn it to the nationals and I think we have a very good chance at it." 
Bnf'orn the nationals, the ulti­mate team will be busy travel­ing and playing against the best compntition in the countt·y. Tlwy tntvel to California for the Stanford Invitational and com­pntl! at the University of Kansas against other top central n~gion teams. 
"We want to play the best teams bnl'ore the regionals," Kerbloski said. "It is very important to get exposure to some valu a b II' .ex pe riP nce, especially if we ultimately strive for the nationals." 
Ultimate is comprised of seven players, three handlers, three longs, and one middle. The handlers are similar to point guards in basketball and are responsible for passing to open teammates. The longs act as receivers and score most of the points. The middle's responsibility is to act as a mid­fielder and c:ontrol the action. 
It is played on a 70-yard field with two 25-yard endzones. The goal is to try to advance the frisbee called an "upfield" into the endzone. 
Ultimate is very fast-paced 

1997-98 SEASON NOTRE DAME COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE PRESENTS a staged reading of 

a drama for epic theate~ 
Written~n're d by DAVID RR , C.S.C. 

DAN A L S, STAGE MANAGER C~ , ASS/STANT DIRECTOR 
February 12th~ & 14th, 1998 7:30P.M. 

l'DJRIFORMED at SDINGTON HALL 
-b1t Flnnr, at rear uf building 

Pascale. Among the under­classmen, junior .Jamns Beeby and sophomores Kevin 
Walsh and Jason Conrad see a lot of action. 
"The core group of six seniors have been playing together for four years so we have some good experience," Kerbloski commented. "Our 
young1!r players are also very first tournament of tho year talenwd. The combination ol' March 21-22 against twEdV(~ talent and depth helps us out. central region foes, including We travel with 16 players, Ohio University, Mic:higan and whereas most teams only havn Iowa. II' you arn unable to twelve. We arn lucky because attend tlw tournamnnt or are at any time, we can substitute interested in learning morn all seven players out and not about the sport, you can always lose much talent." follow tlw team on tlw internet The ultimate team hosts its at http://www.nd.edu/-ultirnatP. 

t998-99 Finan~ial Aid 
Students interested in applying for financial aid for the 1998/99 acedemic year must submit their renewal FAFSA and PROFILE Applications to the processing centers so that they are received by the dates listed below: 
Notre Da...e: FeLruary ~8, 1998 Saint Mary's: Mar«jL 1, 1998 
for additional information or applications, please contact your financial aid office. 
I 
il.! 
• 
IT'S THAT TIME OF YEAR AGAIN! 

THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION IS LOOKING FOR STUDENTS WHO WANT TO MAKE SOME SSSS DURING THE ALUMNI REUNION JUNE 4-7 1998 OR ALUMNI FAMILY HALL JUNE 4 -AUGUST 2 1998 
INTERESTED?  
APPLY AT STUDENT EMPLOYMENT  
336 GRACE HALL  
,...., .. J  OR AT THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION  
202 BROWNSON HALL  

• 
/ . 
Thursday, February 12, 1998 
·The Observer: 
Weve got zssues. 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
brought the game within one again on base-line layup. But Garrity ­who returned to form with 31 points and 11 rebounds after a mini-game slump -forced the Eagles to throw up the three when he made both free throws at the other end. 
With Granger on the bench, the Eagles had no choice but to get the ball to a heavily defended Woodward, who threw the ball to 

The Observer • SPORTS Kostas Maglos, forcing him to take the three which he missed. The Irish finished with two dou­ble-doubles -Garrity and llickey who had 21 points and 10 rebounds -and Manner who just missed a double-double perfor­mance with 10 points and nine rebounds. It was not the prettiest win, filled with wild passes and a few missed easy shots, but the fact that the Irish walked away with another conference win overshad­owed that. More importantly, the Irish have avoided traveling to Miami this weekend off the heels of a three­game losing streak. 
Mell to: Amllriclln University 
Specie! Progrems Advising Center 
4400 MIISNdlusetts Avttnue, NW 
AMERICAN UNIVERSITY WIIShington, DC 20018-8080 
WASHINGTON, DC Fex: 202-886-2542 PLEASE SEND ME MORE INFORMATION ON AMERICAN UNIVERSITY'S SUMME!l PROGRAMS. 
Zip APSU 

African American & Hispanic Students 
Summer Leadership Internships available: 
Stop by the Office for Multicultural Student Affairs or the Center for Social Concerns for an application. 
Application Deadline: February 13th (Friday) 
Opportunities available in: South Bend (both) Chicago (both) (Detroit) (African American) San Diego (Hispanic) Lexington (Hispanic) 
• 
Ten weeks ofleadership and service work sponsored by the Black Alumni and Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame. 

• 
Academic work and experience earning 3 elective credits in Theology. 



CII'ITt• 11'0. 
SOCIAL
• $2300.00 Tuition Scholarship CONCERNS 
page 17 

i'~,r&MI~~ii~ Basketb~li"' Statistics vs. Boston College 

l~~ ~~BRATE THE 
~~~ 8h= 

IFfimmfi~ffim ~ mru~ CBIPcn~ \IYCBCBlli 
·······~······~················· 
Beglnnln~ F~ry~h
Enter to wm yo11 •...· ance to iii,, crowned KING or QUEEN dr'· • . Finnigan's ~'Y~-­
,:· 

Mardi Gras Celellr ,· · 1\f The winner will rece~ tp . ~ to New Or:&i"ns9 i C. 
Drawing will he held on ,~ue-ry 20Jh. -~ Different events,games, and prizes. ~"& W~? for more details in 
r ?"'the Observer * ~--or call283-0452 
. C:•'-... 

~ ,, ~ ·t..'.4 
•• ·~~ •• •0 ••••••••••••••••••••, 
"' "' Fihnigan's Irish Pub '\ 113 E. Wayne Downtown South Bend 


Sponsored Call today to reserve your seat! by the Notre 
.:uat,JI•

Dame 
Pre-Law 1·800-KAP·TEST Society www.kaplan.com 
·course names are regiStered lrademaf1<s of their respec~rve owners. 

ICS 

page 18 Thursday, February 12, 1998 
• SNOWBOARDING 
Dude! They took my medal 
Competitors rally behind Rebagliati 
Associated Press 
YAMANOUCIII. Japan 
Snowboardnrs rallied 
behind the Canadian rider 
who was stripped of a gold 
mndal for marijuana, with 
one teammate unfurling a 
banner reading: "Hoss is the 
champion. Give him the gold 
back." 

The disqualification of Ross Hebagliati, winner of the men's giant slalom Sunday, was the talk of the shredders as they competnd in men's and women's halfpipe events Thursday (Wednesday night EST). 
The lntnrnational Olympic Committee stripped Rebagliati of his gold medal after he tested positive for traces of marijuana. Hnbagliati, who was appeal­ing the dedsion, said the traces must have come from second-hand smoke at a party in Canada last month. 
Aftnr eompleting his first qualifying run down. Canadian rider Michael Michalchu1~k unfurled the small sign in support of his teammate. 
Michalchuck said he wrote 

the slogan on a cloth hotel 
napkin the night before. His 
KAT Photo 

girlfriend handed it to him at In light of the Rebagliati situation, American snowboarder Shannon Dunn, who placed fourth qual­the bottom of the course. 
ified for the finals of the half-pipe event, spoke out in defense of snowboarders.
"I believe in Boss," Michalchuck said. "He's the rode back and forth down the Burnside was third with 36.7 Michelle Taggart, said, "It's gold medalist. No one can chute -measuring 120 and Dunn fourth with 36.6. ridiculous. There should 
deny him. lie believes he has­meters long and 15.4 meters The thme American men have bcwn some morn inves­n't done anything wrong. wide, with walls 3.5 meters Ross Powers, Todd tigating before they went and lie's an athlete. lie's an high -performing a series of Hichards and Hon Chio(li -made it a public thing. Once Olympic athlete. lie is the skateboard style maneuvers failed to qualify in the first they start testing otlwr ath­champion. No one should be with names like McTwist, run. But they still had a letes. they'm an~ going to be taking that away from him." Alley-oop, Backside, Indy chance to make it in the sec­a lot morn situations that 
Miehalchuek claimed the grab and Mute Grab. ond. eorne up. I just feel bad for Canadian snowboarders The runs were accompa­One by one, after eornpl!~t­Hoss." were "misinformed" about innd by an eclectic mix of ing their twists and turns The snowboarders, c~om­the doping-control system. music, ranging from rock, down the snow chutn to blar­peting in the Olympies for the saying they didn't know tllfl reggan, hip hop and grunge. ing rock music, the shredders first time, said they wen~ tnsts covered marijuana. The tunes included songs by ripped the IOC's dedsion to angry that thnir count£w-cul­
"I don't smoke marijuana," Jimi Hendrix, Oasis, Beck, strip Hebagliati. ture sport was being associ­he said. "Hoss doesn't smoke Queen. Blondin, Bob Marley "lie still won the gold ated with drug usn. niarijuana. but when you am and Jim Morrison. medal to me," said U.S. rider "It's happened in other around marijuana, it can be Two American women, Cara-Beth Burnside. sports," American Shannon in your system. lie's innocent Shannon Dunn and Cara­"Everyone!s just furious Dunn said. "It's not thn sport. and should bn clean~d." Beth Burnside, qualified for about it. It's not aiTecting his It's a person. You can't 
Another Canadian, Maelle the final after two runs. performance, c'mon. They'n~ stnrnotype all snowboarders: Hicknr, said: "lie's a fair com­Norway's Stine Brun kicking people out for cough All the people I hang out with 
• OLYMPIC UPDATES 
Dahlie is first man ever to win six golds 
Associated Press 
NAGANO. .Iapan 
A star is Bjom. 
Norway's Bjorn Dahlin. the homo­town hero of the Lillnhammer Games. became the first man to win six career WintN Olympic gold mmlals with his victory in the men's I0-kilometer cross-county ski race. 
The rneord-bn•aking Nagano gold now joins the three that Dahlie won in I992 and the pair lu~ collected in I994. The five medals had tied Dahlie with two speedskaters: Erie lleiden of thn United States and A. Clas Thunbnrg of Finland. 
Dahlin, in <f steady rain. led from wim to wirn on the Snow llarp course. The victory followed Dahlin's stunning 20th-placl~ finish in the 30K event, wlwn tlw Norwegian usnd tlw wrong wax on his skis. 
WhiiP Dahlin stormed to his record­setting nwdal. a wintry mixture of snow and rain -augnwntPd by whip­ping winds and lwavy fog -thrnat­erwd to postpone tlw weather-cursed nwn's downhill yl't again. 
Two thousandths of a second decide luge 
Associated l'ress 
NAGANO. .Japan 
Silke Kraushaar dappnd twice after she linishf'd hnr linal run in women's lugP. 
Clap. Clap. 
And just like that, she sent her Gmman teammatn Barbara Nindernhuber from gold to silver WPdnnsday in the closest luge race in Olympic history. 
After nearly thren miles of sliding, Kraushaar had won by two-thou­sandths of a sncond. 
Clap. Clap. It was too much for hnr to eompre­lrnnd. 
"Actually. I haven't ovon rnalized that I am an Olympic champion right now," Kraushaar, 27, said aftnr giving Nimlnrnhub1~r a big hug. "It will take orw or two days that I can think it all over and rnally settle down with my gold medal." 
Kraushaar finishml the four runs in 3 minutes. 23.771J seconds, and Niedemhuber was timed in 3:23.781. Angelika Neuner of Austria finished in 3:24.25:{ for the bronzn. 
l.ugn was measured in hundrndths of a second until thn 1976 Olympics at lnnsbruck. Now we know why. 
U.S. curlers sweep past Germany, 8-5 
Associated Press 

petitor. lie didn't cheat." Kjeldaas was the top qualifi­rnndicine." In the competition, riders er with 37.6 points, while Another 
• CROSS COUNTRY SKIING 
Russia's Lazutina claims her third medal of the games 
in sno-:;boarding don't do any American, drugs. 
IJ MEDALS 
TABLE 
1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
Through Wednesday, Feb. 11 Through Twenty Medals 
Country  G  s  B Total  
Germany  4  4  4  12  
Russia  4  3  0  7  
Norway  2  2  3  7  
Austria  0  2  4  6  
Finland  2  1  2  5  
Italy  0  3  1  4  
Japan  2  1  0  3  
United States  2  0  3  

KAHUIZAWA. .Japan Tlw U.S. men quiekly opennd a 4-1 lead and lwld on to bmtt Germany 8­
5. but might have to win their remaining two matdws to reach thn sernilinal round in Olympic eurling. 
The Anwricans 12-3) are tied with Britain for firth place in tlw night­team liPid. Only tho top four move on after round-robin play eonc:lud1~s. 
The U.S. lead was sliend to (>-!i after night ends, or innings, but a deftly I~XIH~uted takeout by Am1~rican cap­tain Tim Sornnrvilln pushed the lead to 8-!i. 
Canada. which has won four of the last fiv1~ world championships. remain1~d the only unbnatnn men's team by beating prnviously unbeaten Switzerland 8-:t Canada is 5-0 and Switwrland is 4-1. 

Associated Press 
IIAKUBA, Japan 
Larissa Lazutina won her second gold modal and third overall of the Nagano Games in the women's 10· kilometer freestyle pursuit. sprinting away from her rivals at Snow Harp. 
. The 32-year-old Russian was chased through most of the race Thursday (Wednesday night EST) by Katerina Noumannova of the Czech Republic, who stayed a little over a ski length away and even took the lead with 2.6 kilometers to go. 
Lazutina, who began the race with a live-second advantage after her 5K win Tuesday, regained the lead almost immediately and made a dncisive move a kilometer from home to win in 28 minutes 29.9 sec­onds. Added to her 5k time, that gave her a total of 46:06.9. 
The pursuit results are based on total time. 
The two skiers had been well clear of the rest of the field for most of the race but another Russian, Olga Danilova, winner of Sunday's 15K race in which Lazutina finished sec­ond, edged NeUillannova for the sil­ver. 
Danilova's combined time of 
46:13.4 was 6.5 seconds slower than Lazutina's overall mark, with Neumannova a further .8 behind in third. The Czoch also had won the silver in the 5K race. 
AP 


Thursday, February 12, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 

$5 everyone else 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
ONE OF --rHE 'v/oRSI 
1H /AkjS ABOV/ f3EJN4 A CARIOONJST; I 5 -rHAf EVERYoNE At.'v.I;N5 As~ 
1HAT Yov PVT !HEM IN A (0/r'JJC. WI:LLI FOR ALL 
OF You wHo HA 5 
EV~R ASKED··· 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
DOGBEI\T THE SUPEI\MOOE.l 
'YOUP-. FrR5T 1\SSIGN/"\ENT IS A LINGERIE SHOOT. YOU'LL BE WEARING 
~LACK SOCKS. 
_) 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 27 1969 Hoffman role
1 Personal things? 
29 Author--Yutang

4lt's full of roots 30 "Independence
9 Rocky Mtn. highs? 
Day" actor . 

13 Takes home 32 Fleetwood Mac's "Walk
15-­
--Line"

Conferences of 1899 and 1907 33 Mason 16--Maar 
attachment (Picasso 34 Commercial mistress and prefix for manysubject) cold-weather 17 Some products Havanans 
35 Comic actor 19 Actor Morales John 20 Round rolls 
36 Like a shake 

21 Sentimentality roof 23 Outer limit 39 Mollycoddles 24 Pizza topping 
40 Military 25 One that's over demolitions due? expert 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
~~~~~~·~~~~.~~i 
MESSSTEWARD 'ff-Af'K SWEATED 
1)'E~Ps'E'A 
s s y
ANG 
B A
EM

-G 
N T E E TA L D/E 

ME 
s­

wo 
T E T A 

T E S AGE 
RIS 
D E S 
E R A 

RO 
S E T T A 
D E 
S C A N T 
C 
R 
EW 
I N T AIK 

E S 0 B 
-s 
s c 
E N E 
s c 

AN­B E 
H E A D S 
CAR D 
I A Cl 

'E"L'II'c'ii'osssToTcH 
~ T~ L I 
M EI E u 
D 

0 R A f'EfA"~ ELEE 
SPARED 

c;::.L.:..C.L-• 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries:lf your life has slid into

WELL.., /HERE 
chaos, this is the day to slap it all 

you r:, o.' back into order. Your impatience gives you an edge in the energy
Now LEAVE 
department. You may end up

ME" ALoNt! 
doing someone else a favor with­out even realizing it. 
Taurus:Take a little time out of your busy schedule to include romance in your life. Even a shal­low, impermanent connection is enough to break the cycle of ten­sion. Any kind of fun is welcome today. 

Gemini:You need a healthy shot MIKE PETERS 
of maternal energy today. Call or visit your mother or an older female relative. Emotional securi­ty and happiness flow from sim­ple reassurance by a trusted voice. 
Cancer:Call a few siblings or relatives and catch up on family gossip. Sordid details are seduc­tive today, even if not particularly scandalous. Resist the urge to start a rumor. 
Leo:Money or health concerns keep you from being your usual vibrant self today. Leo's sunshine is hidden behind the clouds. Even superheroes need their day in the 

SCOTT ADAMS 
shade. Virgo:The Virgo Moon brings a double dose of Mercury to your
THE.R£.'5 NOTHING 

QUtCI<.~ GET
wow! 
. 
day. You are fast and efficient. 
SEXIER THt>..N A. 5HORT, 
Tl-\!5 
1"\t A. etc:,
. 
Your brain works like lightning.

u 
-g 
Nobody has any doubts about

ROUNO GUY IN BLACK WOR¥-S.' 
eLOCI<. OF ICE 
~ 
(/) 
what you really mean.
SOCKS. 

TO SIT ON! 
,! 
Iibra:lf you were hoping for a 

. 


... 
, 
!
·;;: 
::> 
., "' 
"' 
"]I 
41 Shoot the 
breeze 42 Take a bough 43 Nursery items 
44 Monthly service 46 Tnp 47 French story 48Long-­49 Millionths of a 
meter 
51 Singer Ocasek of the Cars 52 Old-fashioned 
contraction 54--one's welcome 56 Noted name in 
newspapering 58 Hospital helper so"--Three 
Lives" (TV oldie) 61 "The Pirates of Penzance" heroine 62 Roulette bet 63--Jr. (acting son, familiarly)
64 Beethoven 
Wanted: Reporters


35 Hood 50"Noman-­37 Take down-­38 Right, in a way 53 "Trust--" 39 Crews' quarters 
(1937 hit) 
and editors. 

41 Bender 55 Ubangi tributary 44 Invitation 57 80's Pentagon notation letters 45 CPR pros 59 Diamond stat. 
·1 oin The Observer 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
staff.

1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
day of quiet contemplation, you may have to wait. Inner and outer voices make demands on your time and attention. You are likely to drop what you're doing i someone requests your help. 
Scorpio:Don't be shy when it comes to putting across your vision. Work is judged on its pre­sentation today, as well as its merits. If you are holding back, everyone will recognize that something is missing. 
Sagittarius:Even if your view of the world is different from that of your employer, stick to the part of the map you have been hired to draw. Staying busy is the easy part. Feeling the worth of your efforts is more of a challenge. 
Capricorn:A change in perspec­tive does wonders for a tired old way of doing things. The same story takes on new meanings when it comes from the mouth of a different horse. This-is a good day for learning. 
Aquarius:Your day is marked by a previous oversight that has now borne bitter fruit. You are not stopped by a problem, but you do stop smiling. Live and Jearn ­do not ignore the details next time. 
Pisces: Ignoring a conflict will not make it go away. Unspoken problems may begin to ferment into poison if they are not dis­cussed today. You are the one who must begin talking. 
• 
dedicatee 65Antis 
DOWN 
1 Body builder? 
2 One usually precedes 15-Across 
3 Infant's dessert, maybe 4 "Leaving Las 
Vegas" co-star 5 Hack's place 6 Palindromic title 7 Took a stab at? a Colombian coin 
9 "The Sultan of Sulu" writer 10 Fall short in votes 11 50's innovation 12 Hoped for salvation 14 Whist variety 18 Roulette bet 22 They're all talk 26 Capital city till 1960 28 Chemical suffixes 31 Mouse manipulator 


St. Valentine's Fest!! 
Cushing $2 @ door When Harry Met Sally Thurs, Fri, Sat 10:30pm Fools Rush In Fri, Sat 8pm 

Acoustic Cafe Thurs 9-12pm Feb.27 
'• J 
'\ 

I ... 
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, February 12, 1998 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish soar over Eagles, 75-72 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's basketball game against Boston College last night was an intersection of contrasting styles. 
In conference play this sea­son, the Irish have beaten four teams with better records and have lost to four with worse marks. The Eagles' season. con­versely, has developed more expectantly. 
Even last night's 75-72 Irish victory over the Eagles provided contrasting factors. The Irish were outscored 46-8 in the baekcourt, but the frontline trio of forwards Pat Garrity and Derek Manner, and center Phil Hickey outscored and outre­bounded the Eagles 65-20 and 30-11. 
Notre Dame did its typical job of falling behind early -allow­ing Boston College to jump out to a 9-2 lead in the first three minutes of the game -and then clawing its way back to a 10-9 game on a Garrity dunk. 
"We were true-to-form, falling behind early and we were a lit­tle tight at the beginning of the first half." Irish head coach John Mad.eod said. "We were turning down some good shot opportunities. But I feel we got straightened out and once we started to roll, we played better. 
The Irish made the game 11­10 on a Garrity steal that result­ed in a coast-to-coast layup, and then took the lead that they would not lose until there was 
1:15 left in the game. 
The Irish entered the locker room with a one-point lead at 35-34, but what rmnains so out­standing about Notre Dame's play in the first half is that it only gave up one turnover against a feisty Boston College defense. 
"I don't know what the record for turnovers is in the first half, but I know we had to be close," MacLeod commented. 
The combination of Duane Woodward and Antonio Granger, who finished with 21 and 19 points respectively, kept the Eagles in the game in the second half, but the formidable front-line of the Irish was too much to handle for the Eagles ailing center Mickey Curley, who was nursing a sore ankle. Hickey's towering dunk fol­lowed by a free throw put the Irish up by I I, and Notrn Dame had appnarml to have dosed the door on thn Eagles. 
llowever. the resilient Eagles fought back and on l'iv1~ quiek trips down the court brought the ganw within two. i\nd despite giving up only 10 turnovnrs the whole game, the Eagles applied a half-court pn~ss that forcml a key turnover and allowed Granger to ti1~ the game at 70-70. 
"We could spn how pumpnd up they !the Irish! wen~. but I think tlwy got comfi>rtablc with the lead," Eagles c1~ach /\1 Skinnnr Pxplitined. 
llowevnr. thn Irish rngailwd their composun~ and wern able to apply enough defense to win the game. 
The clutch play of the game was by Hickey when he sunk two free throws to put the Irish up by two, followed by a Granger foul on Manner that put him on the bench. After Manner sunk the front end of a one-and-the -bonus. the Irish pushed the score to n-70. 
Still, the unstoppable Woodward returned, and 
see IRISH I page 17 


Notre Dame comes up big in the paint 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ ows of Garrity to deliver impressive performances Garrity felt that this was the night for Manner fusistant Spon:s Editor eombining for 31 points. Garrity scored 31 as well. and Hickey to elevate their games. The Eagles After an initial rejection by the Eagles' Antonio played a zone and focused a majority of their 
Usually. the big men lor the Irish lind themselves Granger, Manner propelled himself to one of his attention on Garrity which opened up the other big dwarfed by tho overpowering defenses of the best performances this season. He completed a men. opposing team -but not last night. three-point play, stole a pass and finished offa play Perhaps the story of the night lies with llickey. 
Derek Manner and Phil Hickey lightened the load initiated by fellow teammate Antoni Wyche in the MacLeod felt that after Ilickey's performance for Pat Garrity. opening minutes of the game. against Hutgers that he would embark on a seoring 
Throughout the majority of the season, Garrity "It was another big night for Manner," MacLeod streak. Yet Hickey fell quiet against the Hoyas, but has carried the Irish in almost every category. Irish said. "He had nine rebounds for us." last night, he could not be silenced. lie had a h!1ad coach John MacLeod expressed his eoncnrn Manner also contributed 10 points to the win. career high 21 points and snagged 10 rebounds nbout establishing scoring from other players He also made large contributions on the defensive anc two assists. besidus the forward. · end coming up with six defensive boards and a "We did shoot it well from the fi·ee throw line," 
In last night's close win over Boston College, the couple of key"steals. Manner played a tight MacLeod said. "I believe in the second half we two big men omcrgod to answer the plea of their defense against the Eagles' power forward coach. Manner and llickey emerged from the shad-Granger. 
see MEN I page I 5 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAlL 

Women look for consistency 

By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
If there is a quote on the minds of many Irish fans, it's "thorn's no place like home." 
llopefully, after having a dif­findt time on the road, Notrn llanw's women's basketball team ean get baek on track with a three-ganw homestand that starts with a contest tonight against conference opponont St. John's. 
Tlw Heel Storm heads into tlw .JoycP Center with a 5-15 rneord and with a very strong grip on the c1dlar of the Big l~ast (~, So far, the month of FdJruary has spnl11;d disaster l'or tlwm, after losing two hornn ganws to Providence and 

... 
• 
Seton Hall. 

In the 72-57 loss to the Pirates, SJU trailed 35-24 at halftime and allowed the visi­tors to go 16 for 29 from the frne throw line in the second half . .Junior forward Andrijana Bedalov and Ebony Dickenson 1~ach scored 14 points, while senior guard LaTrieia Gunnells finished with I 0. While the Hed Storm held a :~9-22 rebounding edge against the Pirates, they were unable to use it to their advantage. 
"We've played them before, and did pretty well against them," junior Diana Braendly said about the Hnd Storm. "We know what to expect for them based on that game, but we also know that every team gPts 
Men's Basketball, at Miami February 14, 7:30p.m. 
Women's Basketball vs. St. John's, Today, 7 p.m. 
better as the season goes on. So, we're trying to keep pre­pared for new things as well." 
Notre Dame leads the series against St. John's 4-0, includ­ing a 77-57 victory over the Bed Storm on Jan. 10 earlier this season. St. John's has only played once at the Joyce Center, a 66-53 win for the Irish during the 1996 season. 
On the other end of the spnc­trum, the Irish have had extra­ordinary outputs while in the friendly eonfines of the Joyce Center, but have been unable to play consistently on the road. Four of Notre Dame's five Big East losses have eome away from home, the only 
see WOMEN I page IS 
Track and Field at Butler Invitational, Today, 7 p.m. 
• Olympic coverage 
sec page 18 
• Men's tennis team falls to Kentucky see page 14 

• 




