

The Observer/Liz Lang 
Abandoned equipment outside the WVFI station on the second floor of LaFortune indicates the see WVFI I page 4 temporary closing of the station for technical improvements until next semester. 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
New' Wrircr 
l.ikP any ollwr high school senior applying to eollngP, Carrin Cerrnay is t:autiously optimistil' about the f'oliPgl' application prorPss. 
Yf't among tlw typical angst of essays, application dnadlines and 
intervinws, Gnrmay's primary eon­
cern is linding the college that is 
right for her. Whir.h is exar.tly the reason why Saint Mary's annual Fall Day on Campus was such an eye-opener for her and her family. 
"I eanw hero to discovnr every­
thing that Saint Mary's has to offer me," Gnrmay said. "Coming here helped me realize morn what the Saint Mary's expe­rienen was like -as soon as I got here. I fnlt a sensn of unity. That stood out for me." Giving prospnetive students the feeling for what the Saint Mary's campus is like -outside the pages of a brochure or ler.­ture -is exar.tly what Mary Pat Nolan, director of admis­sions, was shooting for. "Seeing is believ­ing," Nolan said. "It is easier after having this type of expnriencn to sen that Saint Mary's is a communi­ty of scholars and learners." Tour guides, faculty representatives and students were avail­able throughout the day to answer ques­tions from 287 prospective students and thr,ir families 


THE 

The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 48 

Off the air 
WVFI closes doors until 
Feb. 1999 
By MICHELLE KRUPA New' hliror 
Campus radio station WVI:I, (J40 :\i\1. suspPIHind olwrations Sunday until Ff'bruary 1999 al'tPr months of' tnrhni1:al diiTirulties plagued daily working ordPr, according to staf'f li<ti­son JPnnifPr ColnnHUl. 
"WI' l'al1't hi' considerPd a truP, working radio station without our CIJ playt•r working. That's really ridicu­lous. Hight now WI' fl't)l sub-par," C:oiPman said. 
Man age nw 11 t a 11 d f) J s v o t nd Saturday to halt tllf' station's nol1­t'lllllllll'r'l'ial opPral.ions in ordl'r to allow full-limP Pngini'I'I'S adequate spart• to rPplat'l' or rPvamp CIJ and n•t·ord playPrs. mil'rophol1es, sound board and otlwr technical aspects of' the organization. 
Dan O'Brien, a f)J f'or tlw station f'or four years. echoed the need for bnttl'r IH(Uipnwnt: ".~t's dof'~nit~;l~ a 
second-rate studio, he said. I VI) lwe n I'm barrassl'd on the air. because I expectod things to work and thny didn't." 
A non-commPrcial station, WVFI will use its budget !'rom Studont Activities to f'und the process. 
"The station's boon in pretty bad shape all semest1~r long. We could have takon a eouplo of days ear.h weok -like not go on air on Mondays and Tuosdays or something -but there's only a f'ew weeks of' air-time left in the semester any­way," music director John lluston said. 
Transmittors will also be refur­bishml by tlm anticipated on-air dat1~. allowing all students on Saint Mary's and Notre Dame's campuses ar.cess to tlw station's programming. While WVFI's shows rnar.h all College stu­dents, only six Notre Danw dorms 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 



Moberg returns to campus 
By ERICA THESING News Writer 
------. 

Senior Brent Moberg, an R.A. in Keenan I I all who suf­
fered a brain aneurism Sept. 15, returned to campus 
this weekend to visit with friends and attend Ketman's 
formal dance Saturday night. 

"He's doing so much better now," said his sister 
Emily, a freshman at Saint Mary's. ~He ean walk now 
with a cane. His memory is fino. There is so much 
improvement." 

Moberg. who slipped in and out of a eorna after the 
aneurism, left St. Joseph Hospital on Oct. 1 and 
returned to his hometown of Hockford, Ill., for therapy. 
He was discharged from Hoekford Memorial llospital on 
Oct. 27, but continues with his physic:al and oecupat.ion­
al therapy. 

Moberg hopes to finish his therapy and return to cam­
pus full-time after Thanksgiving, then begin dnsses 
again next semester. 

"There's a sma.ll chance I might be back for good after 
Thanksgiving break," he said. "There's no seheduled 
date, but that's looking promising.~ 

Moberg realizes that his recovery is impressive and 
said that his physical therapist is amazed with his 
progress. 

"I'm pretty lucky. There's no doubt," he said. ''I'm lly­
ing through therapy." 

Saint Mary's senior Gwyneth Murray-Nolan, a J'riond 
of Moberg's, is also impressed by his progress. 
"He looks fabulous. He's totally back to himseU'," she 
said. "His therapy is going super well. He continues to 
surpass everything they thought. It's befln phenomenal." 
Moberg is grateful for the support he received from 
his family and friends throughout his recovery. especial­
ly from the Keenan Hall stall 

"It's been amazing," he said. "I couldn't have done it without them." The support fl·om the Notre Dame./Saint Mary's com­munity was also very important to him and his family, .Moberg said. }"My parents went through a lot, obviously, and l know 
; see MOBERG I page 4 
who attended Pall Day on Campus, an increase from 1997 that has the College optimistic. 
According to student representa­tives, applir.ants' main concerns are understanding Saint Mary's life and determining if it is the life for them. 
"Generally, the students arc interested in what kind of place Saint Mary's is," said Kristin l'rigane, who worked as a tour guide and an athletic representa­tive. "A lot of them eomc in and are vnry nervous at first, but then they loosen up and become more com­
fortablf~." 
Making the students comfortable, l'riganr. says, is what will often make the difference in convincing the student to eome to the College. 
"When I was applying to college, I knew what my fears were, and looking baek, I know what I wished I had bor-n told -even something as stupid as 'shower sandals are important,"' shr, said. "Every littlr, thing makes a difference. The more connections you make with people, the more apt you are to come to a sr.hool." 
Parents, on the other hand, are r.oncerned more with the burden of financing the education. 
"Parents ask about the r.ost," said 
see SMC I page 4 • Check out what the reviewers think of 
• Women's soccer wins the Big East championship 

Monday
Adam Sandler's new release, "The Waterboy" 
for the fourth consecutive year after beating UConn 
and "The Seige" starring Bruce Willis and 
1-0. 
NOVEMBER
Denzel Washington. 
Scene· 10 

Sports •18 

9, 1998 





Admissions 'Fall' into place 
SMC Fall Day caters to perspective students 
------------~------------~~-­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
The detnon -wants to cotne out and play no-w ... 
I'm still here. I list what I need to do: homework, studies, work hours, cleaning my room, laundry, exer­cising. It looks like a busy.;s..c_h_ed_u_I_e_.---­Oh, I'm not gone yet. I C.R. "Teo" Teodro 
think I might have just 
Illustrations Editor
been sleeping. 
I wake up and prepare for my first class. I overslept again. I just want to sleep in bed. But I can't afford to miss too many classes. I don't want to screw up again. 
I'm beginning to stir. I am now waking. I can feel you inside. 
Not another test! I can't study all of this now. I have that project to do! I'll have to put off exercise and start working these right now. 
I feel your discontent. I know you are miser­able now. Don't fight it. Your feelings are your own. 
I just got off work right now. I can't study right now. My head is fried. I'll just take a nap for 30 minutes, then I'll study. 
Your body rests, but your mind is still not at ease. Your emotions are stirring. This makes it easier to coax you. 
The alarm goes off at midnight, alerting me to wake up and do work. I quickly shut it off and return to my slumber. 
As you sleep, I stay awake. 
Uh no. I slept through the whole night! I'm not ready with that project. And that test is coming up. I'm going to be late for class. I don't have time to shower and clean up. 
Let your cares go. Forget about everybody. Just think of yourself for now. 
My project is really bad. I don't care any­more. Why am I so tired? I'm even falling asleep in class. What's going on. Oh, I just want to be alone for now. 
That's it. You don't need anyone. Get rid of 
anything that's in your way. "Hey Teo!" "Uh w'sup." There's my friend. She seems happy all the 
time. I wonder what her secret is. "So how are you doing, Teo?" "Okay, just busy and tired." I lie to her. I'm feeling really bad now. She doesn't understand you. She's always 
happy. You are not. You don't belong in the 
same world with her. "So I'll see you later?" "Urn, let's see. I'm really busy, but I'll see. I 
have to go now. But I will talk with you some 
time, okay Teo?" "Yeah, I'll check ya later." Why didn't I talk with her? I need someone 
to talk to. Maybe I should go and ask. No! You have no one. Her life is not hard as yours. She has not seen what you have. But would she understand? Maybe she can show how she gets through life. 
You are different. She seeks her God for help. Her God can't help you. You are different from all the rest. Stay to yourself. No one needs you, so you need no one. 
Err. I can't take this now. Ijust want to hurt someone right now. Ah yes. The Demon wants to come out and play now. 
I have to stay focused. I got the project done, now I have to study for that test, and finish my other readings. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Bill Uniowski  Mike Vanegas  
Noreen Gillespie  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Scott Hardy  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Mark Deboy  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Colleen Gaughen  Liz Lang  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday exc~pt during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, November 9, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Crowd mourns end of affirmative action with vigil 
SEATTLE, Wash. 
One e-mail message was all it took for Jim Rodriguez, a doctoral student in educational psychology, to bring together a crowd of 50. UW students and faculty gathered for a eandlelight vigil "to mourn the end of a!lirmative action in Washington state" last night in Red Square. 
"''m amazed by this turnout. I sent one e-mail and look how many people showed up," said Rodriguez. 
They were responding to the passage of Initiative 200, whieh asked voters "to prohibit the state government from dis­eriminating or granting preferential treatment based on race, sex, color, ethnicity or national origin in public employment, education and contract­ing." 
Voters passed I-200 with roughly 59 percent approval. Rodriguez began the vigil by asking for a moment of silence to recognize 
• UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA 
Tainted food spreads illness 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 

An outbreak of nausea and vomiting that many stu­dents charge was linked to tainted food in the three main University dining halls struck at least three dozen people Tuesday night, though the actual total could be almost twice that. Penn officials disputed the food-poisoning claims, saying the illnesses were likely the result of an influenza-like bug. The exact number of victims is unclear, with official and unofficial tallies varying wildly. University spokesperson Ken Wildes said last night that 30 to 35 students visited Student Health Services or the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and several more called to ask for medical advice. Many also suf­fered symptoms but did not seek medical advice, stu­dents said last night. University and Philadelphia public­health officials are investigating the maladies, Wildes said. 
• OKLAHOMA UN!VERSHY 

Upgrade causes telephone shutdown 
NORMAN, Okla. 

OU was without telephone services for more than seven hours Thursday morning after a routine upgrade caused a campuswide shutdown. "We had truly what you'd call a catastrophic problem," said Lee Colaw, director of the department of computing and telecommunication services. The problem began during a normal software upgrade for the phone system. Steve Dile, assistant director of DCTS, said the upgrade looked successful, but instead it caused the system to crash. The entire university phone system, which includes :r25-pref1x phone numbers, went down. This left the campus without use of telephone or fax. Joan Goth, associate director of DCTS, said cellular phone and e-mail communication was used all morning. The phone system automatically paged DCTS at about 5 a.m. signal­ing the trouble. Service was restored campuswide by 
12:30 p.m. 

• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 

Alarm fails to sound in dorm fire 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

After residents evacuated a dorm early Monday morning as a result of a fire that had started on the third !1oor, some cadets questioned why they never heard the general alarm they had attempted to activate. Andy Wheeler, a member of A Battery and a senior biology major, lived on the first !1oor of the dorm and was studying for a test when he heard commotion outside his dorm room. Wheeler said after he went into the hallway and saw cadets kicking on doors and yelling "fire," he saw a sopho­more cadet pull the manual alarm switch. He said he was surprised when no alarm sounded. He ran up to the sec­ond !1oor and pulled another manual alarm switch with the same result. Charles Sippial Sr., assistant vice presi­dent for Physical Plant, said when the fire alarm system is activated, either manually or through the general detec­tion system, there is a three-minute delay. 
• GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY 

Player arrested for stalking coach 
WASHINGTON 

A former Georgetown basketball player was arrested Tuesday for making threatening phone calls to Georgetown men's basketball llead Coach John Thompson and for tres­passing on the Georgetown campus. Kevin Millen, class of 1995, was arraigned Thursday for two counts of misde­meanor threat and one count of misdemeanor unlawful entry. According to several reports, Millen allegedly made phone calls in which he threatened bodily harm on employ­ees of the basketball ollice, including Thompson. According to The Washington Post, Millen had begun calling Thompson for job advice in January. According to the D.C. Superior Court affidavit, Thompson helped Millen find a job, "but for reasons unknown to the complainant, the defendant's employment/career efforts met with abrupt and unahppy endings." The affidavit states Millen ealled the basketball office at least 37 times since February. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeathe,... forecast for noon, Monday, Nov. 9. 
AccuWeather00 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/'""'"''' 
~~~ .....~ .........-" ! 
Monday 

Tuesday 
Wednesday ·~39 ............... ....-.­
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD STATIONARY 
@..""'© B E3 c.:;J D 1;;·: ·:1 r-::::::1 0 ~~ ii!~@·> 
High Low Showera Rain T-atorms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

Thursday ~.. 48 
V18 A:ISOCiated PrS!!IS 



NATIONAL SUMMARY: Snow will stretch from eastern Montana and Wyoming to northern parts ol Minnesota and Wisconsin today. Rain will soak an area from southern Minnesota and central Wisconsin southward to Missouri and Illinois; showers and thunderstorms will extend southward to Texas and Louisiana. There will be snow showers in the Rockies, and some snow in the mountains of Arizona and New Mexico. 

Atlanta 52 65 Dallas 51 72 Miami 52 83 Baltimore 37 55 Detroit 36 53 Minneapolis 34 414,~,~q~Q {) ~ u Boston 39 53 Denver 25 37 Salem 39 55 Chicago 35 54 Hartford 35 52 Santa Fe 32 44
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunn~ P!.Ciou~ Clou~ 
Cleveland 35 53 New York 41 54 Washington 39 57 
Via Assocl8tsd Press Graph/csNet 


"We need to mourn, but quickly, so we can move into action. Many of us knew it could happen. It happened in California and it passed here -but it hurts, especially for the people who fought for civil rights," said Rodriguez. 
Crowd members were given an opportunity to come forward and ded­icate their candlelights to someone important to the cause of equality. 

They chose Martin Luther King Jr., Jackie Robinson, Hosa Parks, family members and friends. 
"I am saddened that we lost the fight. It's time to ask questions -why didn't we get together before and fight hard?" asked Terry! Ross, a doctoral student in educational communication and technology. 
"Not all people who voted for 1-200 were bigots and racists. Half of the women in this state voted for 1-200. I'm going to bed with questions, not answers, as to why we did not fight beforehand." Rodriguez said despite the failure of affirmative action, peo­ple needed to carry on the fight by taking the movement to a grassroots level. 
"We need to stop reacting and figure out what we need to say yes to. Let's start monitoring state agencies, uni­versities and their hiring practices,"he said. 

~------------­
Monday, November 9, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Kotlowitz: Children never get used to violence 
teamwork with individual recognition 
stock options 
any questior~3~ting@clcsys com 
ERICA THESING 
Nrws Writl'f 
Anwrica must rebuild its povorty-stricken communitios to savo the c~hildren living them~. said /\lox Kol.lowitz, award-win­ning author. 
Kotlowitz. who spoke Friday night as part of a confnrencn on summor sorvicc~ projncts, ~~xplairwd that tlw breakdown in ~~ommunity must bn stopped to lwlp tlw children nxporioncn a 
ATTENTION GOVERNMENT MAJORS! 
NOW is the time to apply for a Spring 99 Government Internship! Sign up for an interview & pick up an application 
In 

217 O'Shaughnessy. For more information call 631-8248 
trun childhood. pie with a sense of direction, 
"I would suggest to you that belonging and purpose. the statn of our poor children is "I believe that work is the very the groatost domostic issue fac­thread that holds the social fab­ing us today," he said. "Our chil­ric together, and when we lose dren are our future. Somehow that thread, the fabric begins to we'vo got to provide a future unravel," he said. "Part of the from which these children don't problem is that work has literal­feel tho need to run." ly left these communities. The 
Kotlowitz said the !irst cause challengo is really, ultimately, of a breakdown in community is 'llow do you bring jobs back a loss of jobs. Ile explained that into these communities?"' besides a financial benefit, Kotlowitz also discussed the employment also provides peo-violence, often related to gangs, that occurs in the poorest com­surface, white politicians forced munities. He stated that a these developments onto the young black male has a greater edge of existing black ghettos, 
chance of dying on the streets anchoring them to the poverty than a soldier did on a tour in already present. Vietnam. "If you look at the history of 
"I think there is a terrible public housing, it has every­myth out there about the vio­thing to do with race," he said. lence. I would suggest to you "We've got to lind a way to talk that the children never get used openly and candidly and hon­to the violence," he said. "I saw estly about race." children with Kotlowitz a very strong called on 
foreboding politicians to that they open their eyes
'IWOULD SUGGEST TO

wouldn't to these issues.
YOU THAT THE STATE OF
make it to "These adulthood." OUR POOR CHILDREN IS THE issues of race Kotlowitz, GREATEST DOMESTIC ISSUE and poverty 
who spent a have disap­great deal of FACING US TODAY.' peared from time with the public inner-city spotlight," he 
children ALEX KOTLOWITZ said. "Our 
w h i I e researching his two books, said that he saw among them a post­traumatic stress disorder simi­lar to soldiers returning from Vietnam. 
He also observed depresfiion, 
"hyperactivity, sleep deprivation and flashbacks among the chil­dren who experienced violence almost daily. He explained that the issue of violence must be treated as a serious public health issue. 
"Somehow we've got to inter­vene in the lives of those direct and indirect victims of vio­lence," Kotlowitz said. 
Another major issue facing the children in these poverty­stricken neighborhoods is race. He said that during the 1950s and '60s, when large public housing developments began to AumoR political lead­

ers lack a 
boldness, a 

real sense of courage and fortitude." 
Kotlowitz expressed hope that the American people, working together and linding a collective voice, could begin to rebuild these decrepit communities if they are made aware of the horrid living conditions found there. . 
"I think the American public has a strong sense of fairness and justice," he said. "That's what the country is founded on." 
Kotlowitz, author of "There Are No Children Here" and "The Other Side of the River," was the keynote speaker for the Andrews and McMeel Second Annual Conference on Summer Service Learning on campus this weekend. 
Monday, November 9, 1998

page 4 The Observ~r • NEWS 
today were very reassuring." we have to talk to her and be repaired as soon as possi­"There are so many reasons invite her to events such as Fall ble.
SMC WVFI
why we have a larger group of Day on Campus, she becomes "The AM carrier current is 
continued from page 1 
Nolan. "They ask, 'Is a Saint Mary's education worth the cost? Is a Saint Mary's educa­tion going to give my daughter the kind of experience that will serve her well after college?' But when they come here and can speak to students and fac­ulty, they begin to make the connection with cost and value." 
"We're in sticker shock," said Germay's parents. "Our only real anxiety is the financial, but the presentations we heard 
rate leaders, as well as by research and publications. The center also helps to coor­dinate and irite rate the teaching of ethics tm·mJftnrm the business curri 
Notre Dame. 
An associa managemen cializes in undeJ:-st•mclinJ~ · 
prospective students," said Nolan. "A lot of it has to do with a change in focus in how we connect with prospective stu­dents. We have started to make connections earlier on in high school years -freshman, sophomore year." 
Intensifiying the information presented to potential appli­cants during early years of high school often makes the differ­ence, Nolan said: "We have found that sophomore year is pivotal. At that point, students are looking at forming their lists of colleges. The more time 
try's . 46-year policy of apartheid and Qurrently serves as chair of the U.S. hoard of United StatescSouth Africa p Development 
better informed about Saint Mary's." 
Yet, increased numbers at events such as Fall Day on cam­pus do not necessarily mean an increase in applications, Nolan said. 
"Among the students here, th.ere are students who are freshman, sophomores, juniors, seniors and potential transfer students," she said. "They may not all apply tomorrow. The important thing is that they come here and get a feel for Saint Mary's life -we're not putting up a facade here." 

of..t;;.writtim several textb · as . health · and ·current!: !itL<:()n:tpl~~ting a text 
.•.m;:... ..-..:.· 
continued from page 1 
receive broadcasting. 
"We don't want to lose stu­dent support, but we can't get to many people on this campus. Hopefully our loyal listeners will continue to support us when we're back in February," Coleman said. 
The station's executive board is also considering long-run goals in its decision to go off the air. With the possibility of FM broadcasting in September 1999, technical problems must 
Moberg 
continued from page I 
the support was amazing to them and amazing to me," he said. "It's the gr-eatest sign of what this University is all about, and it shines through in times of need." 
Moberg explained that the support came from "the top down," including administra­tors, faculty members, priests and students. 
The illness also impacted Moberg's personal faith life. he going to get fixed, which is very important if we get the oppor­tunity to go FM in the fall. We'd have the carrier current during the day and switch to FM at night," Coleman explained. 

In the mean time, DJs and staff will work regular hours reorganizing office space and redesigning the studio floor. Station management hopes to build the group's confidence, which has been fading as a result of inadequate facilities. 
"I think this spring cleaning will help out. I think it will help morale," Coleman said. 
said. 
"It's definitely made it stronger," Moberg said. "There have been so many small little miracles throughout the whole thing that can't be explained away." 
Moberg, who is in the Arts and Letters pre-professional. pro­gram~ said that he still plans to attend medical school after graduation. He explained that his time in the hospitals helped give him a new perspective on the need for compassion and optimism in the medical field, and he said that those lessons will be very important in a med­ical career. 
University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
~be 3fiotre 11Bame <!Cborale & <!Cbamber ®rcbestra 
Alexander Blachly, Director 
Music of: Byrd Lassus Purcell Lotti Bach Mozart 
8:00p.m. Wed., Nov. 11 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Free & open to the public. 


PUBLIC LECTURE 

"CIVIC ENGAGEMENT IN AMERICAN DEMOCRACY" 
THEDASKOCPOL 

The Observer is lool~ing for some­

Professor of Government and Sociology at Harvard University 
one who is sl~illed at programming and scripting for the Mac to assist 
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 1998 
in the development of the Observer's website. This is a paid 
7:30PM 

position. 
HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
If interested please contact Jenn at 
271-9145, or leave a note in the 
AUDITORIUM 

Web Administrator mailbox at the Observer Offices (basement of South 
SF•ONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENTS OF SOCIOLOGY AND 
Dining Hall) 

GOVERNMENT AND THE KELLOGG INSTITUTE 

Monday, November 9, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

• • WESTERN SAHARA Islanders vote on referendum NOUMEJ\, New Caledonia 
Nnw Cal1H.Ionians ovnrwlwlmingly approvfHI a rnfnrnndum Sunday on "shared soVPrnignty" that puts ofT a vote on indepen­dnrwn for tlw Fn~nch territory in the Pacific. Tlw rdnrnrHium. approvnd by 71 pnreent ol' votf'rs. will give broad nnw powers to the arrhip1dago, tlw Ministry for Overseas TnrTitori1~s in Paris announcr.d. But it puts oil an incll~pnrHinrH·.e votn for 15 to 20 years. In tlw nwantinw. thn tnrritory will directly control tax1~s. fon~ign tradn, transport and communications. whiln l1mving to Paris key snctors likn clnfPnsn, justicn and police. New Calndonia, a Fn~nc.h tnrritory for the past 
150 ynars. is about HOO miles cast of 
. Australia. Thn tPrritory holds about 30 per­r•·nt of tl11• world's nirk1d reserves. "Today, tlwrn is a majority of pnopln who want to work togPtlH•r and dncidP our own futum," said tlw IPad1•r of' Nnw Calndonia's pro-inde­JH'rHII' nrf' nwvnm Pll t. Hock Wamytan. 
Questions remain after fire 
COTI~BOBC. Swndnn 
lnvnstigators say tlwy havn no idna what rausPd a dartcf' hall lirP in Swmlnn. tnn days aftPr 11w blaw that racnd through the build­ing and killnd (>:l young p1wple. The investi­gation is proceeding slowly because much of tlw 4,400-squarn-fool hall is covered with d1~bris up to 20 inchns thick. Holf Johansson, tnchnieal chid of tlw investigation, said Sunday. Ttw lin~·s explosive spread and the fact that it blocknd orw of the second-floor hall's two nxit stairways has prompted spec­
AssociATED PRESs Western Sahara. Earlier..Sunday in Algeria, the
ulation that it was arson. B~·cause most vic­
The United Nations has been trying Polisario Front said the Western
tims WPn~ immigrants or children of immi­LAAYOUNE, Western Sahara for seven years to organize a referen­Sahara dispute will continue "as longgrants. tlwm havn been suspicions that anti­U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan dum on the future of the mineral-rich as the Sahraoui people have notforPigrwr sentinwnt was involved. 
arrived in this desert territory area, claimed by Morocco since 1975, freely exercised their inalienable Sunday for a firsthand look at what when Spain abandoned it. right to independence, and done so in has been one of the United Nations' During his visit, Annan will visit incontestable circumstances of free­
Gingrich mulls possibilities 
knottiest missions -resolving a 23-the U.N. military observer team here dom and confidence." year dispute over the fate of the that is organizing the referendum -The U.N.'s referendum proposal
MECIIJ\NICSBUHG, Pa 
Western Sahara. delayed by differences over who can was accepted by both sides in 1991,N1~wt c;ingrieh said Sunday he's given no /\bout 1,000 people lined the tar­take part. The vote is expected in but differences over how to identifythought to a run for the presidency since 
mac to greet Annan, who was wel­December 1999. those eligible have brought thequitting as I louse speaknr but wants to stay comed by Moroccan Interior Minister The U.N. chief arrived from process to a halt countless times.
"an active dtiwn in public life." Two days 
Driss Basri. Mauritania. He was to travel Monday To date, 147,249 people havB beenaftnr announcing hn will quit the speaker­
Morocco claims the territory as night to Marrakesh for a meeting declared eligible to take part in theship and abandon his seat in the llouse, 
part of its kingdom, but the Polisario with the king, before visits to Tunisia referendum. But another 65,000 arc(;ingrich appParnd rlliaxed and smiled as he 
Front wants independence for the and Algeria. contested.
paid a birthday visit to his ailing mother at tlw Country Meadows Assisted Living Center, a tan brick building outside Harrisburg. Talking to a f1~w reporters bel'oro he went in, 
Glenn 'elated' about successes
c;ingrich said he had no word on fellow llPpubliC"ans' fight to succeed him. he has 
ASSOCIATED PRESS though, to join his six crew-. careful Sunday not'to turn explain it to reporters.
givPn no thought to running for president 
mates for the traditional his head, which after nine Glenn couldn't resist pok­
and hP will othnrwisn discuss his political days or ing fun at his crewmates
CAPE CANAVERAL walk armmd the shuttle. weightlessness
futurn Monday night in Washington at a 
After a shaky reintroduc­"If T would have been. o.n . would have made him dizzy. and the few hundred joUJ'·mnPting of (;01'!\C. tlw Hnpubliean fund-rais­tion to gravity, John Glenn my hands and knees 1 was He described it as being nalists jamming the news ing group lw oncn headed. 
wo.s "95 or 98 percent back going to do it," said Glenn; "alligator headed." conference, postpone.d from to normal" Sunday, walking who beat the f'.'lldest·space· Otherwise, he looked and Saturday night beeause his briskly, telling jokes and man record by 16 years. ''I sounded as fit as ever. medical tests ran so late. urging old folks to follow wasn't quite to that point, One of his much younger Here's Ameriea's first
Market \#ttch: II/6 
their dreams. man in orbit complimenting "l feel very elated that his shuttle commander,
Dow 
AMEX: 
things went well. We got a 'OBVIOUSLY, WE'D LIKE TO ••• GO RIGHT BACK Curtis Brown Jr.: "I told him 670.HO
}ONES lot of the data we were UP AGAIN, BUT THAT'S NOT TO BE. AND SO A last night he was almost as 
+2.7H 
looking to get and worked· good a ·commander as the
Nasdaq: SENSE OF ACCOMPLISHMENT I GUFSS I FEEL AND A 
very hard up there," NASA's one I had on my first flight." 
IH56.56 
+llJ.46 77-year-old geriatric test UTILE BIT OF LETDOWN THAT lliE WHOLE THING IS And when a camera tri­NYSE: subject said his first morn· pod came crashing down
OVER.'
565.10 ing back on Earth. just as Glenn was explain­+2.92 
"Obviously, we'd like to ... ing what it was like read­
srr 
S&P 500: 
go right baek up again, but justing to gravity, he
JOHN GLENN 

1141.01 
Composite that's not to be. And so a cracked: "This is the dan­
+7.33 Two·TIME VBTERAN ASTRONAUT
Volume: 
sense of accomplishment I gerous part."
+59.99 935,302,1!00 
guess I feel and a little bit of Several hours later. VOLUME LEADERS letdown that the whole but obviously I was not crewmates, in fact, was the Glenn and his shuttle crew­
I 0\11'\',) •, l I!''(.! I'HH't'
! I< bl B "<i \IN thing is over' maybe, but doing my best gait out only one to come back mates arrived in Houston, 
.J.-17 H.hH1~ Cll U••UHII'INC tTl +.Ul +-2.2~1111 4fl.nnnn nothlnf$ serious."
0\II·.C;,\ ("llHI' 10\1 +I.UIHIII there. I was not disoriented, wounded. where more than '1.000 
CIUn•·d 1-1{ COR I' (' ·2 . .\1 +II.H7~11 ;liU,I2!itl f'll\11'\()t'0\11'1 ITH CI'CJ ti,4U +II.IH7~ .H.7~nu 
In his first post-flight that would be too strong a Stephen Robinson people packed an airport 
'AH\\.WJN(' '\\\'\ t!'.7U +U.H7~11 41UH!IU 
t.t·n~n 1.11 -H.I.I.\7!1 1111.11!111 news conference, Glenn word for it. But you're smacked his head when he hangar to welcome them
nn1 +l.J-' \HI.I.~I·\fcc;o \\"H' +-ll,q~ .U.HI2~ .an.mmo 
\1&"1 <"OMI' r ·1.5\'11\1) admitted he "didn't feel too walking very spraddle· came barreling out of a tun· back. Mayor Lee Brown told 
+I."HI ft.\.h2~11 1'111111'\lfHUU~ \10 .l),qJ +l.IH7!\ ~.l,Uh2~ 
\HI.IJ)JSNJ.'Y('O hot" when he stood and legged so you can keep your nel in weightlessness; he the astronauts their mission
IHS +0.61 +IUI2:'1 .\0.2!1UU 
walked out of space shuttle balance.'' suffered a l-inch gash over had "renewed an Amerkan Discovery on Saturday. Even after a good night's his right eye and the love affair with space trav­He was determined, sleep, Glenn stlll was being embarrassment of' having to el." 

-~--~ ~­
page 6 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 9, 1998 
des as . nothingworse than •....•...•...·•...· . ·~ or~·.· in..Jbe lat­..••.•..est·· case;>~J<hahstionl:f Public .wi••il"skeptiyi~~ is .gro.win~\ ...·and ·commJ.ll)i~t~ in the l~wer press ser-•• house ofparliament+t-;who vice said. had.fir.st-hand expedence 
Kremlin Yeltsin hidinglea.ders' ailm~·p;ts in 
spokes-the Soviet period '?•:.have w o m a n . .· . begun tp !!emand .a· full Vera Barysbeva d.e~lm.e~ tp accounq~g of his phySi()al comment on Yeltsm s condi-'5' condition: •··• . tion. or why the p~esident Russia's SupremeiCourt had come back earher than ;;• rul~<:tlast week that X(jlltsin expected. When Yeltsin went ' call.iiot seek a third t~rin in to Sochi on Oct. 30, just over office; ensuring that ht'l is a ~eek ago, the Kremlifihad ,nearing the end of his politi­sald he would be there. t)'Vo ~··cal 
career!¥lt¥'> "w""· weeks, recuperating from 
Recycle the Observer 
Th:issu..m.m.er, ge-t a :n...e"W 

Summer Service Projects 1999 
C
*First infor_m~tional meeting: Nov.9,l 
. 7 7.30 p.m., esc _j
[4... 
C £ H 'I' ( " F 0 R

* 8 weeks of service learning 
SOCIAL CONCERNS

* $1 700 tuition scholarship *Valuable alumni contacts 
* 
3 credits Theology, with possible cross-lists 

* 
Over 200 sites across the U..s and abroad 


Len.d a. hand. A.n..d di.llilCover li.:fe. 
•IRAQ 
Clinton delays weapon inspection 
were lifted. Secretary of State Madeleine
Spokesman 
Trade Minister Mohammed Albright. who did much of her Mehdi Saleh said Iraq had consulting by telephone, allLeavy calls Iraq suffered so long under the met with Clinton for about 
U.N. sanctions it had nothing two hours Sunday at thesituation "very to fear from new U.S. threats. Camp David presidential On Thursday, the Council retreat in Maryland's Catoctin
serious" condemned Iraq's declared Mountains. halt to inspections, but the 15 The president reviewed the
Associ a ted Press 
nations remained divided on diplomatic and military whether to authorize military options with them and "asked
WASHINGTON 
strikes. for a follow-up on both
President Clinton put off a 
The Clinton administration fronts," David Leavy,
decision on whether to use 
has insisted there already is a spokesman at the National
force to try to reopen Iraq's 
legal basis for bombing Iraq Security Council, said. 
weapons sites to U.N. inspec­
and that the United States "They will report to him t
tors Sunday. 
would act alone, if need be. over the next several days,"
In a two-hour meeting with 
Only Britain has stood Leavy said.
senior advisers, Clinton 
steadfast with Washington, "The president has made
directed them to weigh for a 
no decision."
few more days military and 
Leavy and other adminis­
diplomatic strategies. 
tration officials described the
Among the considerations 
'WE ARE NOT WALKING situation as "very serious."
was that Iraq might respond 
The New York Times
to an attack by permanently AWAY FROM 
reported on Sunday that the
banning the international 
UNSCOM. IN FACT, WE 

. administration had concluded
search for illegal chemical 
ARE PULLING FOR COOPERA­the U.N. inspection regime
and biological weapons. 
was no longer an effective
And yet, over seven trying 
TION.' 

instrument for restraining
years, diplomacy has failed to 
Saddam Hussein. The report
compel Iraqi President 
quoted unidentified senior
Saddam Hussein to comply DAVID LEAW 
administration officials.
completely with the U.N. 
SPOKESMAN, NATIONAL SECURITY 

But Leavy said "this whole
Security Council's attempt 
COUNCIL situation is predicated on get­
to ensure the elimination of 
ting UNSCOM (the U.N. spe­
all potential weapons of mass 
cial commission) back on
destruction. 
though there is overwhelming schedule."
Eight days ago, Saddam 
sentiment in the Council that "We are not walking away
declared a halt to cooperation 
Iraq must comply with the from UNSCOM," the White
with the U.N. special commis­
U.N. commission's demand House official said. "In fact,
sion that conducts searches 
for unfettered inspection of we are pulling for coopera­
for chemical and biological 
suspect sites. tion. We haven't abandoned
weapons. 
The Secretary of Defense. UNSCOM."
Fifteen U.N. weapons 
William Cohen, toured the The Security Council resolu­
inspectors, some of them 
Persian Gulf region last week tion Thursday was a demand
experts on missiles. left 
seeking political support from that Ira cooperate with the
Baghdad Saturday as the 
Arab governments as well as inspectors. Leavy said.
United Nations began to 
promises of help if Clinton Newsweek magazine, mean­
reduce its presence in Iraq. 
decided on bombing Iraq. while, said that in response to
On Sunday, as Clinton 
Sandy Berger, the presi­"a fruitless stance" against
weighed military action. Iraqi 
dent's assistant for national Saddam the Clinton adminis­
ministers said they would not 
security affairs, held consul­tration had quietly decided to
back away from a decision to 
tations, meanwhile, with avoid military action and to
bar U.N. inspections unless 
allies in Europe. maintain international sup­
crippling economic sanctions 
Cohen, Berger and port for economic sanctions. 

INROADS. 
Chicago, Inc. 

An·e you cul!'n'ently a fir·es~unan Oll' sopll·wmoll'r('1 Do ymJl have at lleast a 3.0 GPA1 i\n·e you & lbusiness m· Engineell'ing ma]oll'1 ITntell'esteJl in iinten"nslhip oppoll'hllnities1 
H you answell'eJ yes to aH of these ifJ!.1lllestions9 then we slho1lll[l([ see you at an ITNROAD§ infon"mation meeting when~ Monl(llay9 Novemlben' 9 w~~en·e~ esc time~ 7~30 JP>.m. 
Don9t miss m1t on this OJP>ll~m·tunity~ Pr•f'ft.,f:'I'Pit1<C•f' go~s to Aft'1·ica11 Anll•f'l'ican, L.atilllo, aaHil'\fa(iv'l" Am!'l'ic.an shHif'nils. 
Any Questions1 CaH OMSA at 1=68-411 
Tlw 1missio11 oft' JlNROAD§ is {o dle·,.!"lo]l) .aml!Jl)lac.P tal("nl('~l mi11o1'i{y y!m{h i11 \6msi1wss .am•ll nnHlustl')' .all~lrrwerr)·I!Lrr".t' daem fol' ('•()mlnrmnil(y le.a.;l•f'l'shirr). 
-~--­
.,_ 
~-----~-~~----~ 
friday, November 6, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 


TlllfJ CIY II
ec•••••LY F••••• 

Dave Rudolf Appearing Tuesday, November 10 2 shows--9:30p.m. and 10:30 p.m. at Burger King® in LaFortune 
November 10-11 
.99 WH-OPPER® 
Sandwich c••1. a1mc~m a1•c® 
limiB~I 
Obligatory info. on Dave Rudolf you may or may not wish to know: 
Featured on Dr. Demento's radio show 
Appeared on HBO Comedy shorts and numerous cable television shows 
Headlined at comedy clubs, Ravinia, Summerfest, Taste of Chicago and hundreds of concert venues throughout the United States 
-
Performed at over 2,000 colleges 
12 nominations for NACA College Entertainer of the Year 
• 

~--.-------------~-----------------~----------------------~~--------~------~-----------------------------~ 
VIEWPOINT 
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ••..••••••.•••• Kerry McPardin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brerc Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS. . ........... Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER.... . .................. .Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the inde~ndenr newspaper published by the srudents of rhe Universiry ofNorre Dame duLac and 
Saim Mary's College. h docs nor necosarily reflect rhe policies of rhe adminisrrarion ofeither insrirurion. The news is 
reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe 
Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Ediror and department edirors. Commentaries, letters and 
columns presem rhe views of rhc authors, and nor necessarily rhose ofThe Observer. Vil.wpoim space is available to all 
members of rhe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to aU readers. The free expr~ion ofvarying opinions 
through leuers is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 63I-4542 Business Office 631-531.1 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 63I-454I Advertising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 63I-5323 Systems 63I-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 63I-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 63I-~40 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-747I News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• SUPER HIGH INTENSITY TRAINING fOR THE M!ND 
'SMCchicks,' Flo-Jo, and Hideki Irabu 

This question and answer session is called to order. Yeah, you in the corner with the dunce cap and notebook. 
"What's all this talk about ego at ND?" 
Right Reason, it's so nice of you to join us. We'll keep it nice and simple like you. Let's think about ego and how we relate to Saint Mary's College. 
Spencer Stefko 

Let's start with a basic premise: Notre Dame SAT scores and high school GPAs are, on the average, higher than those found at Saint Mary's. I know there are exceptions. Probably more exceptions than you or I think. That's why I said 
average. 
Now let me ask you all a very important question: Who cares? 
What this means is that many of the folks at ND outscored many of the folks at Saint Mary's in high school classes (one to five years ago) and on the SAT-which as far as testing intelligence, is the equiv­alent of a spelling bee. 
So this means many of us had better memories in high school than they did. In this light I'm unimpressed with this diiTer­ence. 
Next: You with the Abercrombie & Fitch jacket, $200 shoes and Domer beret. 
"So we're not smarter than anybody else just because we go to Notre Dame?" 
Uh, yeah: We're not smarter than any­body else just because we go to Notre Dame. 
Yup, you sir, with the two class rings and pinkie ring. 
"My name is K. Pompous O'Toole 
XXXVIII. Explain to us the alleged, so-called, ostensible, purported, supposed, difference between intelligence and memory." 
Well, my exceedingly prolix friend: Much like you, behind the mask of big words, it is quite elementary. Memory is the ability to store knowledge (most of which one never needs again). Intelligence can best be defmed as prob­lem-solving ability, or the capability to think on your feet. Open-mindedness and willingness to learn are also essential. 
Yeah, you with the leprechaun tattoo, you're next. 
"So is there a difference between Domers and SMCchicks?" 
There are exceptions to every rule, but we can try to analyze one diiTerence. I think there is one fundamental difference between the majority of Saint Mary's stu­dents and the majority of Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Saint Mary's students are, on the whole, more down-to-earth, although I don't know why. It may be the stereotypes they encountered from ND students when they got here that caused them to step outside of themselves and put the ego away. Maybe it's the fact Saint Mary's doesn't have Notre Dame's "reputation" (kick in favorite pretentious accent here) in many intellectual circles. 
Grounded. Earthy. Enjoyable to be around. Sound like foreign concepts? Have those haughty snotty hotties been getting you down? 
Cross U.S. 31. Many do for dances or dates. But it is often fruitfully crossed in a quest for friendship to help prevent one from tiring of the arrogant attitudes pre­sent on some of this campus. 
Yeah, you in the "Son of a SMC" shirt. 
"So Saint Mary's is better than Notre Dame?" 
Nope. You haven't been listening. Not better, just diflerent. Parallel. Saint Mary's isn't Notre Dame, nor does it desire to be. It is a different part of the same family. 
Yessir, you yawning over there., 
"So what should we take from this?" 
It's quite simple. The people make the school. the school doesn't make the peo­ple. 
Okay, who's next? You wrapping that two-month old in ND Pampers and shov­ing the ND pacifier down his throat. (A free t-shirt for anyone who just noticed the symbolism.) 
"Does any ofthis really matter? So some people think they're superior to others just because ofthe school they attend. Is that so wrong?" 
First of all, these people usc up perfect­ly good oxygen, which is fundamentally unjust. 
Unfortunately, it doesn't stop at any one individual. People who hold these beliefs often raise children who hold these beliefs. (Just as they are often born to parents who hold these beliefs.) It is one of the cruel tricks of the circle of life. 
As they raise their children this way, they are inadvertently teaching them that reputation is more important than char­acter. The children then become snivel­ing, whining, 20-year old bedwetters who think that improving themselves is sec­ondary to improving their name. 
OK, you with the Super High Intensity Training for the Mind collector's cup. 
"Time's running out, will you give out that bi-weekly award, please?" 
Okay, okay. 

Insane Campus Clown of the Fortnight: The Observer's sports doctor runs away with this one. 
No, he's not really a doctor, but this guy claims that "he's as sure as he can be" that Florence Griffith-Joyner died from steroid abuse. Just out of curiosity, I was wondering exactly how Doogie Howser knew. Was it a coin flip? Magic Eight­Ball? Or, being a sports writer, did he have hard facts? 
He attempted to sully the reputation of one of the few people on this planet who had a balanced mix of intensity, class and flamboyance. This workmanlike goddess raised the competitive bar of women's track and field and broadened the hori­zons for an entire generation of female athletes. All for the glory of the country that affords him the freedom of press that allows him to spew forth the borderline­slanderous fertilizer he wrote. Oh, yeah, and all without ever testing positive for steroids. 
Ask someone on the football team how easy it would be to get away with taking steroids nowadays. Pretty difficult (although not impossible), and that's with the benefit of the most up-to-date mask­ing agents for drug tests. Now remember that Flo-Jo set her records in the 1980s when these masking agents were woefully inferior to the drug tests. 
Someday, it may be discovered that Flo­Jo actually did use steroids. But is the day after her death the correct time to bring up unconfirmed allegations? Simply because she had a heart attack at a young age? I'm glad this guy-and the other classless journalists who wrote similar columns-weren't around when I had a heart attack at 17. What would I be? A crack addict'? 
If you have any interest in sport, please let the paragraph three paragraphs ago serve as her eulogy rather than the tabloid trash printed in The Observer a few weeks ago. Thank God this guy had destroyed his credibility beforehand. 
And in case you missed his pearls of idiocy this week, he told us that Hideki Irabu led the American League in Earned Run Average. That surprised the heck out of me, for one. It should also come as a shock to some guys named Clemens, Mar.tinez, Rogers, Finley, Wells, Mussina. Moyer, Cone, Arrojo, Colon, Moehler, Saberhagen, Fassero, Erickson. Olivares, Thompson, who all think they finished better than Irabu. But what would they know? 
They're not doctors. 
Spencer Stefko is a senior American Studies major. lie can be e-mailed at Stefko.3@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU • 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'style is knowing who 
you are, what you want to say, and not giving a damn.' 
-Gore Vidal 


-~-----·----~------~­
VIEWPOINT 
Monday, November 9, 1998 os~ERVER ----------------------------------------------page9 
• HE WouLD HAVE HATED IT, Bur HE WouLD HAVE DoNE IT 
Inconceivable! 
First and goal on the Notre Dame 4: 1:09 left in the game: No one is r.ovnring thn Boston College wide receiver: Irish lead 31 -26: and wn win. 
To quotn the immortal Vizzini, "Inconceivable!" 
~==============~ This Notre Damn team 
= is not for thn faint of 
!wart They played poor­
ly in parts. great in some. 
and damn lucky in oth­
ers. Players like Deke 
Cooper rel'used to give up 
when all was lost against 

Kevin 
Patrick 
Michigan State and made 
us respectable. On 

-----========------Saturday, he took that 
same attitude and what though the odds bn great or small. Deke made sure we would win ovnr alL That sprint into the backfield was faster than a rector ditching his benr at a tailgatn when Bill Kirk walks by. 
Some of the bt~auty of the victory is the contrast between the two schools. Following their tough defeat. the BC quarterbac:k com­mnnts tlwir running back Mike Cloud. "Is going to make a lot of' morwy." What is on the minds of the BC players? Turning a mone­tary profit from a loss t~ould only eome from unseemly prac:tices such as gambling. That would never happnn at Boston College, would it? 
To hnar from Notre Danw following the contest would inspire imagns of Our Lady. owing our success to Christ, and no matter what play is most memorable each player is just happy to play their part to shake down the thunder that is Notre Dame: Bob Davie: "Tiw l.ady on the Dome is smiling on us right now." Niee job invok­ing religion sinrn we both purport to be Catholic institutions­dnspile llw actions of the BC students and l'ans. Jimmy Friday: "Whnn it was third down. I got down on the sideline and asked the Lord for the strnngth to do what I'm capable of doing." I do not think he was refr-rring to picking the over/under on the NFL games. Deke Coopm-: "It's a typieal Notre Dame play." That is about the best Nukn l.aloosh impression I have ever heard. 
Evr-n if w11 take apart tlw final series of plays. we don't single out onn supnrstar. Wn sne a tnam of playr,rs doing what was thought across thr. country to bn an incon<:eivable task-stop Boston College insidn thn 5 for four plays. Bobbie lloward stopped running bat~k Mike Cloud aftt~r a 2-yard gain on first down. Cloud gained a yard to thn I on sncond down (again stopped by Bobby Howard). On third down. dnfnnsivc linemnn ILl. Scott and Antwon Jones neutral­ized the Hagins' surge nnough for Friday to meet Cloud and hang on as his uppnr body bngan to bend back toward the goal line. The goal line stand was huge team effort. but Jimmy's stick was as big as thny get. Onn on one. the running back has a full head of steam and Friday moves him backwards. 
Evnry tire throw in the summnr. every sprint after practice, and nvnry rep in thn weight room went into Jimmy's stop at the one inch line. All of that, just to set up the opportunity to wake up the echo of Ivory Covington. We owe a debt of gratitude to whoever used the .Jndi Mind Trick on the BC tight-end who chose to block down on Notm Dame's defnnsive end instr.ad of blocking Deke Coopr.r. I nconc:eivablr.. 
Thorn were morn than a few heroes from this game. As usual, more than a few bullets were dodged as we notched another victo­ry. Iluntnr Smith snared a high snap that could have put us deep in the hole early. Jarious Jackson dove on a poor exchange between he and Autry to save a drive. The offensive line never gave up on thnir blocks. so Jarious can scramble out of the endzone to find a widn open Malcolm Johnson 70 yards down field for what would lt~ad to our final score. It was a team effort. 
Everyone is loving Jimmy Friday and Deke Cooper, but a huge thank~> nends to go to the person who callr,d time-out to save a TD when no onr, was covering thr, wide-out on first down at the end of the game. A smart quarterback gets a quick snap and drills the ball to the uncovered wide-out for the victory. But I guess that is why they are BC and We Are NO. 
So what does this victory. coupled with the Ohio State loss mean for our Hose Bowl chances? Nothing. If we don't win this Saturday against Navy (where again a eompletely outmatched Serviee Academy will give 100% to make our lives miserable). then next against LSU (where the age old question will be answered. 'Can Mr. Bigglesworth fly?'). or finally against U$C (where philanthropists such as Keyshawn Johnson and OJ Simpson can claim their lifestyles were honed). then we do not have a shot at a top bowl. 
After the Michigan State loss it would be impossible to find a Notre Dame fan with an lQ above room temperature who would have predicted the Irish would have a shot at a major bowl. But the players and the eoaches never gave up and the fans. despite their pessimism-from me? You must be mistaken-never abandoned tlw team. which places us in line for a glorious finish to a tumultuous season. 
Today, all of the talk is of Hose Bowls and even a few lunatics are cakulating how we could even sneak into a National Title picture. Let's remember where we came from and who we are, so as our loyal sons march onward to victory. we will welcome them with the same charily and support even if the victory falls one inch short. 
Ke11in Patrick is in the final year ofthe JD/MBA program. He will lw traveling to the next three (jour?) Notre Dame games, and hopes to see each one ofyou there as well. The anti-Big 10 column is com­ing. but not until January so as to give Judas more time to rally support. lie can be reached at kevin. d. patrick 16@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Language ofPostmodern Art Needs to Be Learned to Understand Campus Sculpture 

I would like to respond to Stephen Nazaran's letter to the editor of Friday. Nov. 6. Let me begin by saying that Mr. Nazaran's response to my letter is the kind of dialogHe on art that should be encouraged; he wrote his commen­tary on art with thoughtfulness and presented a reasonable argument. Had Mr. Pazornik done the same, I would probably not have responded. 
The difference between the two is that Mr. Nazaran questions the intelligibility of the art, while Mr. Pazornik didn't even acknowledge that it is art (and I assume that "junk" is not art). Having said this, however. I must admit that I disagree with Mr. Nazaran, and will respond to his argument. 
First of all. I do not consider Mr. Pazornik "courageous" in questioning why campus art is "unintelligible," because I believe courage involves standing alone -it involves some individual assertion. Mr. Pazornik merely appropriated the campus rhetoric about sculp­ture; if you recall, there was a similar uproar about a piece of sculpture a few years ago, and there was much talk about the "ugliness" and "unintelligibility" of the art on campus. and no reaction against it-no one responded. 
With each successive generation of campus sculpture installations, the talk against it has continued, and the negative rhetoric has been accepted. No one has questioned this assump­tion (that the art is "bad") -I did. Mr. Pazornik did not contribute anything new to this situation, but it was certainly my intention to do so-I hoped my response would at least encourage a difl'erent outlook, outside of the accepted criticism of campus sculpture. 
Leaving Mr. Pazornik aside, I would like to respond to some of Mr. Nazaran's assertions about art and the art on campus. If my four years of study in art history have taught me anything, it is that there has not always been a forward progression in the history of art. Certainly there have been, and will continue to be, difl'erent artists working at the same time pursuing different goals. And, as Mr. Nazaran states, artists are also in tune with the prevail­ing social forces of the current culture. 
I will take this farther -I would assert that the society provides the artist with a sort of conceptual pool, a set of social ideals they can draw from and integrate into their work. They can also, as Mr. Nazaran says, draw from the past, and respond to its ideals and assertions. It is because these artists often have a common conceptual pool to draw from that artists with­in the same approximate time period can be grouped into artistic epochs, or if you prefer, movements, which describe in a general man­ner how artists respond to the society and time in which they are located. Art today (and thus 
the sculpture on campus) is in the postmodern 
epoch, which indicates both an integration of 
today's social ideals and a building on the last 
epoch, modernism, which in turn was built on 
the last epoch, and so on. 
Postmodernism is marked by an intellectual nature; it is very cerebral in its orientation. which is both a building on modernism and a reflection of today's society. Postmodernism inherited the formal intellectual quality of modernism. and the increasingly higher edu­cated artist has become more intellectual and philosophical, which is reflec:ted in their (today's) art. 
Because of these factors, the uneducated lay­man may not always be able to analyze the work in detail. But while postmodernist art is intellectual, it does not seck to hide its message and meaning; but it will remain hidden if il<> language is not learned. The postmodern sculptures on campus can be thought of as a book in a foreign language -it would be unfair for me, not knowing any of the lan­guage, to pick up a book in German and pro­ceed to disparage it because I did not under­stand it. The language of art. like German, can be learned by anyone, and it is not necessarily a difficult process; any student here could find out what is intended in these pieces by simply asking the artists -they are in the art depart­ment, and would be glad to explain their work. 
Mr. Nazaran accuses me of claiming that art is necessarily elitist. not meant to be under­stood by the general population, and yet uses examples of art in his arguments that arc pre­cisely that-Monet and the lmpressionisl<> were not understood during their time by the majority of the population, a population used to seeing the formalism of academic art; nor were the icons of the Middle Ages, the true religious meanings of which were understood by only a select group of priests and theologians. 
Today's art, postmodernist art, like the sculpture on campus, does not have to be this way-there is no one, student or faculty. on this campus who can't get something out of these sculptures with a little ell'ort. Think of it as a foreign language requirement for today's society -you might be surprised how enjoy­able the reading assignments can be. 
Ross C. Barrett III Senior, An History Major Knott Hall November 6, 1998 


OTHE 
---------------Monday, November 9, 1998
BSERVER 

Cast shines in political thriller 
Sandler disappoints as 'waterboy' 
a.k.a. "The Fonz") decides 
he wants to let Bobby play for the team and be the waterboy. 
"The Waterboy" 
Director: Frank Coraci 
Thus, The Fonz goes to Bobby's house and eats
Starring: Adam Sandler, Fairuza Balk, Kathy 
dinner with him and his
Bates and Henry Winkler 
mother ( Kathy Bates). Bobby's mom does not 
want Bobby to play foot­ball because she is afraid that her only boy might get hurt (a reasonable worry since Bobby has never played football before). The Fonz desper­
(Out offive shamrocks) 
ately wants Bobby to play, 
Louisiana football team. 
(because he is 
a clil1hanger ending, I Surprisingly, he plays a men­mentally chal­wouldn't give it away. tally challenged character who lenged) acciden­But for erying out loud, somehow finds himself tally tells his if you did not think you excelling· at something he mom about foot­were going to get a never dreamed of doing (as we ball. happy ending in this already saw in "Happy Mom, of movie, you are either 
Photo courtesy of Buena Vista 
Gilmore.") course, is disap-Adam Sandier stars in "The crazy or a 31 year-old out with the investigation, the audience never knows whether or not to trust her. She is closely con­
"The Siege" 
Director: Edward Zwick 
nected with some ·Arabs who are under investiga­
Starring: Denzel Washington, Annette Bening, 
tion and have close ties
Bruce Willis, Garry Pastore and Tony 
with the Middle East. 
Shalhoub 

(Out of five shamrocks) By CASEY McCLUSKEY 
Scene Movie Critic 
The key to a great action/mystery movie is its ability to keep the audience engrossed throughout its entirety. "The Siege" grabs its audience from the begin­ning and does not let go until the end. 
Denzel.Washington stars as Anthony "Hub" Hubbard, an FBI special agent who specializes in anti-terrorism tactics. 
When Arab terrorists begin attacking New York City by planting bombs in pub­lic places, Hubbard and his partner Frank Haddad, played by Tony Shalhoub, (the cab driver from televi­sion's "Wings") must exhaust their department's resources to find the ter­rorists. They have no leads, no suspects and no demands with which to work. They basically have nothing. 
As they are investigating the first bombing, they find Elise Kraft (Ai:mette Bening) snooping around the crime scene. Although she says she works for the government and would like to help Kraft does help out with the case, but the audience continually questions what team she plays for. 
As the attacks escalate, the PBI finds themselves in a race against time -a race they appear to be losing. With the entire country living in fear, the 
government feels it is time to take a stand. They call on General William Devereaux, played by Bruce Willis, to put New York City under martial law. 
As soldiers, tanks and weapons are moved in to virtually lock down the city, Americans are given a scary taste of just how powerful their armed forces are. The army declares it will find the terror­ists in its own way. 
Although the investigation seems out of 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox Bruce Willis stars as serious General Devereaux in "The Siege." 
the FBI's hands, Hubbard and Haddad Shalhoub is impressive.in his own role, continue their search because they do showing his struggle as an American citi­not believe in General Devereaux's zen from the Middle East. 
approach to finding the terrorists. This leads Hubbard and Devereaux to square off against each other. 
Unable to work togeth­er, their two teams race each other to solve the case, but they cannot for­get the dark horse in the race, the terrorists. If they win, then everybody loses. 
This action movie dis­tinguishes itself within the genre by its intelli­gence. There is plenty of 

action in "The Siege," but  Denzel Washington (center) stars  impresses the gov­ 
the real focus is on the investigation.  in "The Siege" with Annette Bening (left) and Tony Shalhoub (right).  ernment not to invoke martial law,  

Director Edward Zwick ("Glory," "Courage Under Fire") does not insult his audience's intelligence by spelling everything out. At the same time, he does not keep them in the dark the entire movie. He allows the mystery to unfold for the audience at the same pace it does for the FBI. 
Zwick paces this movie perfectly. He keeps the audience engrossed through­out the entire case, while allowing the audience the opportunity to catch up when necessary. He times it so that the mystery does not run out before the movie does. 
The casting in this movie is superb. Denzel Washington's intensity and intelli­gence shine through in his role. Washington has an amazing relationship with Tony Shalhoub, and their bond as partners is never questioned. 


Bening plays her intelligent role with conviction, keeping the audience guess­ing about where her loyalties lie through­out the film. 
Even Bruce Willis, who is known mostly for playing screwball action· heroes, was impressive in his military role. He leaves his screwball antics behind and plays a frighteningly 

Photo courtesy of 20th Century Fox serious general who 
for he knows the consequences of this move. Willis is able to keep the character's intensity intact throughout the film. 
The chemistry of the entire cast has an explosive charge. It is what makes this a great film. 
The most impressive aspect of the film, though, is its ability to force the audience to think. Terrorism is not that far from home. Terrorists have gotten into the country before and they will be here again. If it ever became a problem, how would Americans react and deal with their fears? Would Americans be willing to give up their own freedom to feel safe'? Would they begin to turn against other Americans out of suspi­cion? Everything in this film could con­ceivably happen. The question is would the Americans allow it? 

ByJOE lARSON 
Scene Movie Critic 
"The Waterboy" focuses on the undeni­able fact that Kathy Bates can form tack­le. Other than that, there really isn't much there. 
Adam Sandler stars as a 31 year-old waterboy for the University of 
When the University of pointed that her Waterboy." Louisiana coach fires Bobby only boy lied to Boucher (Sandler) from his her. Bobby argues with his 
"water distribution engineer" mom and tells her he likes 
position, Bobby has to find a playing football and he will 
new waterboy job. He ends up continue to play. Mom still is 
with the struggling S.C.L.S.U. not thrilled by his decision and 
Mud Dogs and becomes their decides to fake a sickness to 
waterboy. keep Bobby from playing in 
The first day of practice, the Bourbon Bowl. some of the players make fun She knows that she Can of Bobby and he decides to hit make him feel guilty by pre­
·nne of them. Amazingly, Bobby tending his playing football hits the guy so hard it knocks makes her physically ill. But
Photo courtesy of Buena Vista 
him out. Arter this display, Adam Sandier and Fairuza Balk star in the number one movie at the the Mud Dog faithful will not Coach Klein (Henry Winkler, box office, "The Waterboy." let their star player sit out the 
because of his team's los­
ing streak. He convinces the mentally challenged Bobby to play by telling him "what mom doesn't know won't hurt her." Ponz proves this by telling Bobby a little story about Roy Orbison. 
After the inspiring Roy Orbison story, Bobby decides to deceive his mother and play football (do you see the conflict devel­oping?) 
Well, it turns out Bobby is really good. He gets on ESPN and helps the Mud Dogs get all the way to the Bourbon Bowl. 
Hold on a minute, Bobby can't just get the team to the Bourbon Bowl and have them win, there has to be some kind of conflict before then, otherwise the movie would be too short. 
Well, here comes the conflict. 
We find out that Bobby 

was home-schooled and he Dogs are losing at half. doesn't have an official high What do you think school diploma. Now he will happen? won't be able to·play in the Will the Mud Dogs big game. pull off the underdog 
But wait! If Bobby passes victory? the high school equivalency Will Bobby Boucher test he can play in the big be the hero? game ("Billy Madison'?"). The suspense may be After cramming, Bobby too much for you read­passes the test and all is ers. Yes, the Mud Dogs well again. What a wonder­win and Bobby is car­ful world we live in. ried on· the field on the 
Right before the big shoulders of his team­game, Bobby mates. If the movie had 
watcrboy. 

'The Water Boy" is a bad movie with some funny parts, such as Adam Sandler's acting. So if you really like him, go see the movie. 
But if you are expecting a movie as clever as "Billy Madison" or "Happy Gilmore," you will have to look elsewhere. The physical comedy is good. but the jokes are stale and have all been done before. 
The plot itself is uncmative. In fact. you probably have seen many different ver­sions of this movie a thousand times. Maybe it would be better to just grab some water and sit this one out. 
most important game of the season. They gather ouL<>ide the hospital, sing to Bobby and tell him just how much he means to them. This touches Bobby's mom and she apologizes to Bobby. It was the touching scene of the mother bird coaxing her young offspring to jump out of the nest and fly on their own. I cried. 
Once they finish this powerful, com­pelling scene, they are late for the Bourbon Bowl. When their star player 
shows up, the Mud 

-------------------~----------­

O THE Monday, Novemher 9, 1998 BSERVER page I 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spom Editor 
Chestnut llill. Mass. 
Tlw amount of rwisn in Boston C:ollt~gn's Alumni Stadium was dnafen­ing as tlw Eaglns approaelwd tlwir tina! four downs. 
Ynt tlw screams and Y''lls whie.h will ncho in Tom O'Brien's lwad will not be that of r.hnPrs but of jners. 
Tlwy will lw that of the Notre Damn fans ·cnlnbrating frnn safety Deke Cooper's crushing hit on liaglns' stat· running hack Mikn Cloud, knocking him for a mw-yard loss on fourth and goal. 
"This was a [Pam d't'ort," Cooper said. "l•:v.. ryorw desnrvns cmdit for this. not just orw guy." 
This "one guy" stopped BC's only fourth down conversion attempt and gavP Nolrl' Danw its srwnnth win of the Sl'aSOil. 
Cloud. this season, has bnnn the go-to­guy for tlw Eaglns which is why O'Brien put tlw hall in his hands in the dutch situation. 
"l!t•'s my best back," O'Brinn said. 
"We're playing at home. The season's on him. lie's going to have the ball." 
Dnspite gaining 141 yards, Cloud could not penetrate the endzone and gain the single yard he and his team wantnd the most. Cloud had four chances to live in infamy as the one who defeated the Eagles' fiercest enemy. 
On the l'irst down, Cloud gained two yard and was stopped by Bobbie lloward. 
Again Cloud got the nod and rushed for a single yard. once again being met by lloward. 
Third and goal with the chance of redeeming his team's season, Cloud took the handoff and charged toward the nndzone. lie was met by Jimmy Friday, stopping him just shy of the touehdown. 
Then came Cooper's smashing hit, knocking Cloud backwards and dashing Boston College's hopes of an upset. 
Entering into half, Notre Dame's major concern rests with the defense. It underwent a major change during half­time. 
In tlHl first half, they allowed two 
touchdowns and a field goal, giving Boston College the lead. In the seond half, the defense allowed nothing. The last second field goal before hal r was the last points scored by BC. 
"We realized at halftime that we didn't play very well," Davie said about the defense. "Bather than exploit the situation and making it worse. Our goal was simple, play better in the second half." 
The scoreboard did not really tell the full story of the game. Boston College dominated almost every offensive stat. They had 26 first downs while Notre Dame had 19. BC amassed an impres­sive 491 yards on offense. Notre Dame tallied 383 yards. 
Autry Denson edged ever closer to Allen Pinkett's elusive career rushing record. He amassed 128 yards and two touehdowns in a relatively routine game for the Notre Dame ground attack. Denson tied Pinkett's reeord of 21 100 yard games or better. 
The ground game almost took a major setback when fullback Jamie Spencer injured himself mid way through the third quarter. lin suffered a minor shoulder injury. 
Pnrhaps the only tarnish in the run­ning game came on Joey Goodspeed sin­gle carry which turned into a fumble and an Eagle reeovcry. 
Besides Maleolm Johnson's 150 yards of receiving, Jony Gctlwrall madn his first touchdown of his career on his only catch of the game. 
It was a bnautifully lofted 28-yard toss, splitting the coverage and finding an anxiously awaiting Getherall in the endzone. 
"Getherall made a heek of a catch," Davie said. "Once again. we showed some flashes of having explosiveness on oiTense. We maybe doing a little bit too much with the wishbone stuff. We maybe doing a little too much because 23 is pretty good when he has his hands on the ball." 
The numerous star performances turned in by Notre Dame overshadowed Eagle quarterback Scott Mutryn's 
see GAME/ page 3 

PLAYER OF THE GAME QlJOTE OF THE GAME STAT OF THE GAME 
Jarious Jackson 
"It's hard to be real happy right now, other than
lin cooled off' in the second half but still 
Boston College was 0-1 on fourth clown con­
the fact that you come out of here 7-1."
threw f'or over 200 yards with no mistakes 
versions.
-Bob Davie 

and a good 3rd down eonvnrsion ratio. 
---~--~-~-­
~----~---­
Monday, November 9, 1998

page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
Jackson &Johnson forn1 dangerous duo 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Sports Editor 
Chestnut Bill. Mass. 
Nobody wants to pick favorites, but sometimes it just happens. 
Posting 150 yards against the Boston College Eagles and 533 all-purpose yards for the sea­son, senior receiver Malcolm Johnson has shown why he has become one of Jarious Jackson's favorites. 
Eight games into the season. Jackson and Johnson paired together, have become a big play and scoring threat. Currently. Johnson leads the receivers in yards with team­mate Jabari Holloway in a dis­tant second. 
"Malcolm has had a great year," Notre Dame head coach Bob Davie said. "He does a great job blocking and he has made some big critical plays for us. Even in the first half. how wn kept the ball moving were third down conversions. We had some big passes on third down and kept the sticks mov­ing in the first half." 
This dynamic duo drove a dagger right into the BC defense's heart. compiling 150 yards, a touchdown, making good on numerous third down conversions, including the 68­yard pass. The 68-yard comple­tion marked Jackson's longest throw of his career and the longest play from scrimmage for the Irish this year. 
"Good things are happening to Malcolm because Malcolm really does practice so hard," Davie said about the senior's performance as of late. 
Entering this season, many experts predicted that this year's offense would center around a single weapon, the option. Yet Jackson and Johnson have established a deadly air attack. Besides being able to boast of the top tail­backs in the NCAA with Autry Denson. Jackson and Johnson have become a powerful force on third and long. 
At this point in the season last year, Johnson shared the spot­light with fellow teammate 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
First Quarter 
ND-Denson 1-yard run (Sanson kick), 10:10 
BC-Cloud 11-yard run (John Matich kick), :57 
Second Quarter ND-Getherall 28-yard pass from Jackson (Sanson kick), 12:39. BC-DiCosmo 23-yard pass from Mutryn (Matich kick), 9:21 BC-Matich 43-yard field goal, :03 
Third Quarter ND-Sanson 31-yard field goal, 9:52 ND-M. Johnson 8 -yard pass from Jackson (Sanson kick), 4:07 
Fourth Quarter BC-Matich 35-yard field goal. 12:33 ND-Denson 2-yard run (Sanson kick) 9:23 BC-DiCosmo 6-yard pass from Mutryn, 5:54 

Bobby Brown. Quarterback Ron Powlus favored both Brown and Johnson equally. This year Brown recently caught fire in the past few games. In the '97 campaign Johnson amassed 596 yards and two touchdowns. 
The six-foot-five receiver has become the go-to-guy on third downs this year. His tall and lanky frame makes for a very visible target. Saturday's game marked Johnson's best perfor­mance of the season. His previ­ous best occurred against Stanford, catching seven passes for 113 yards. 
In the past four games Johnson has scored for the Irish. On Saturday, he caught his fourth touchdown of the season. 
At the 4:07 mark in the third quarter of the game, Johnson out maneuvered the Eagle sec­ondary to get open in the end­zone. Jackson lofted the ball high enough for Johnson to exploit his height advantage. 
Johnson stutter stepped to get both his in bounds and give the Irish back the lead, 24-17. 
It was not the touchdown which killed the Eagles but the 68-yard third down conversion. On what looked to be a possible quarterback sack, Jackson let one air deep. All alone stood Johnson deep in Boston College territory. 
"I think they just lost track of me in the secondary because originally I was double teamed off the line," Johnson said about the 68-yard play. "It looked like Jarious was going to get sacked but he has great escapability. He just made a great play getting the ball down field." 
"It has just happened," Jackson said about Johnson becoming the primary target. "Since the beginning of the year, a lot of my reads take me to Malcolm. He has done a good job just catching the football." 
Jackson's air attack appeared 
• STATISTICALLY SPEAKING 
Scoring  1st  2nd  3rd  4~h  Final  
Notre Dame  7  7  10  7  31  
BC  7  10  0  9  26  
Team Statistics  NO  BC  
First Downs  19  26  
Hushes-Yards  42-173  40-173  
Passing-Yards  210  318  
Comp-Att-Int  10-21-0  22-35-1  
Return Yards  172  116  
Punts-Avg.  5-188  3-88  
Fumbles-Lost  3-1  0-0  
Penal ties-Yards  7-62  6-47  
Time of Possession  28:35  31:25  

Individual Statistics 

Rushing Notre Dame: Denson 28-128 two touchdowns, Spencer 6-3(J, Jackson 7-12, Goodspeed 1 (minus 3). Boston College: Cloud 28-141, Mutryn 8-24, Washington 3-5. Harding 1-3 
Passing Notre Dame: .!.Jackson 10-21 210 yards, 2 touchdowns. Boston College: Scott Mutryn 22-35 318 yards 1 interception, 2 
touchdowns. 

Heceiving Notre Dame: Johson 6-150 touchdown. Getherall 1-28, touch­down, Spencer 1-13, O'Leary 1-12, Holloway 1-7. 
Boston College: DiCosmo 8-140, two touchdowns, Tarido 5-38, Cloud 3-14, Harding 2-33, DeWalt 2-20. Walker 1-51, Crittenden 1-22. 
in fine form on Saturday. He completed 10 of 21 attempts for 210 yards and two touchdowns. 
"The coaches feel confident in us that we can make plays, make things happen" Jackson said about the gutsy third down pass call to Johnson. "They let us go today and that is what we did." 
"I think that this game has proven to us that we can win the close ones and that is what championship teams have to do." Johnson said. "We were able to pull one out today and we are thankful for it but we have to move on." 
With the constant fine tuning of the offense, Jackson and Johnson have emerged as a threatening duo. With such high rates of success look for Davie and Co. to turn to Jackson and Johnson to jump start the offense. Their contin­ued success on the big plays make them viable threats in the contests yet to come. 

v 
s 

GRADING 
THE 
IRISH 
Quarterbacks: A­
Jackson again showed that he can cause damage with his arm throwing for over 200 yards and no mis­takes. He's shifty in the pocket and eame up with the big 68-yard pass to Johnson when his team needed it most. 
Running backs: B 
Grade is hurt by three fumbles although only one was lost. Denson dueled one of the best in the land in Mike Cloud and did more than hold his own with 128 yards. " 
Receivers: B+ 
Johnson was excellent and is now an established third down receiver. Getherall made a brilliant catch for his first touch­down of his career. A cou­ple of drops on key third downs could. have been costly. 
Offensive Line: B-
IIad a heck of a time try­ing to contain Chris Hovan who had two sacks. Got the job done but they can do a heckof a lot better than 173 yards on the ground. 
Defensive Line: C+ 
When they got to Mutryn he managed to escape. Weaver, Legree, and Williams were pretty quiet most of the day. Lamont, Bryant was active at the rush slot with six tackles. 
Linebackers: B 
Bobbie Howard made plays including an intercep­tion and the fJ.rst two stuffs on "The Stand." He also had 13 tackles. Jimmy Friday's hit on third down is the stuff "Irish Impact" posters are made of. 
Secondary: C­
Deke Cooper saved the day and the secondary from failure. Brock Williams was off his game and was con­stantly picked on by Mutryn and DiCosmo. Tony Driver racked up eight tackles but he's a safety and that ain't a good sign. 
Special teams: B 
Driver and the kickoff return came to life taking some of the pressure off Jackson and Co. to go the distance. Sanson was solid and he's developed into a confident kicker. Hunter the Punter's average was down but he pinned he put the Eagles inside their 20 sever­al times. 
Coaching: B 
A tough one to call. Execution wasn't a strength. The offense moved but had some missed oppor­tunities. They weren't able to adjust to Eagles game plan at halftime and but with Cloud, DiCosmo and Mutryn it's a tall order. 
Overall: 2.9 
The Irish went into hostile territory and came out with a 7-1 mark. If character were a position or showed up in box scores the grade would be much improved. 

-------------~-------------~-~--­
1\ lond.r1·. Nov!'rnlwr 'I, I')<).'{ 
l'lw < ll"n vn • IIUS I I I N S II >F R 
• 
OutSTANDing effort in last minute epitomizes Irish 
llv II )I·Y I I\ VI\ I I) "Tir;rl'•, 1111' w;ry ymr lr;n·o· 1n pl;ry .. 11'o.; :r \\' l'r rllr lr ;r nl I" pnl ,.:rl.-lr_1· I :Jwo.,lrrrrl II ill. r--Lr·.·. plrr:ro.;o ..., 1111" rllr:q','"• or l11 •,o·o · llw llo~loll ( :ollo·l~r· L11llrlrrl llw11r ;r.-ln;rlly pl:rv onl o11 llw l'<tlllrl ;rlrrrll.o.,l lmwlr il Tlw o.,lrr liPid. lurl llr;r1'•, wlr;rl lr;rppo·no·d rlr•rrl o;r·o·liorr lr;lllllwir rn111<' lo in llr;r 1 l':rlf'l.nl l;r..,l 111 inn I o• I ill' lil'lrllo IP;rr rlo\\11 llw ~~n;rl Salnrd;rv 
posh JII'I'J t;rr·r·rl . Tlw •;o~nior 1:11rdo·nr ol' l·.:q~lo· II wao., llwir-; q11;rrlo·rh:r.-k ,<-;o·oll r--lrrlrvn ;11rd .\II llwv llo•r·rlo·rl \\ ;r•, llwir .,,.,. ro..-o·ivo•r :\11llro11\' Ili( :osnro 
111 11l ;rll 1rrr11· lr •;r rlrrr1 ~ rrr·.lro · r I" llroriJ',Irl llro·y lr:ul gil'<'ll llwir ga i11 rorrr y;r nl•, 1111 li 1111 pLr \''• II lo-;1111 ·.onro·lillll)! lo .-lwri•.lr for \\;r<; 111111'1' o·o·rl;llll lll:llr ;r :t•t I '\'1 'I' \';rrol lio·lrl J:ll;rl 1•1' I1;1\ rd I ; .. rol;llr 'Tiro· only llrillj~ I o·:11r .•;:ry 
Nollill.'• IIIII<' ;rloonl il ,., il·.... proh;rloh llw .-lo-; 
l'lw ln·.lr rlr·l'o-11•,1· ·.rlo·lll h <",1 llrllr): lo ;r .-liildlrood dro·;1111 o.,loorl11rllll' lr11rlrllo· l·;rl'lr 0'011111' I1'110'." Ili( :""'""saul ;rlrorrl ro·;ll·l11•rl rl11\\'11 l'arllro·r llr;11r llw polo·nli:rl clo·l't·;rl ol' llro• lri-;lr 
ll11·y\·r· ,.,.,.r ro·;rl'iwrll,..roro· lo "II w;rsJrro.,l all for 1111llring l:;rllll'r 1111' o.,lro'll)~lir In pn•sr·n·r· lu·r·;rllsP ;rill w;11rlr·cllo do w;r:-, II II' :t I :.'.lo vir·lnl'\ 11i11 llri.... ,:;11nr· .. I iris 1:'"'"' w;rs 
ltololow llo\\;rnlo.,liillr·rl r--likr· 1'\'1'1'~ I hill): 1" 1111' .. <:lollrllwir·r· II .-nl;r i11ly nrr•;r nl q11ilr• ;r lril 
..
Iill II II\' I· rirl;r y rr·;rl'i ll'ri rio\\ 11 lo I ill' lri-;lr lo ;r.s llwir n·... ilio'lll'l' l'or ""llll'lirill): "l"'l'l;rl ;11111 .-;IIIII' ~~lr·;11111·d llrrolll)!lr ;11rd 1:avr• rrp \\Iii I II Ill I ill' lrrl or ;r lirr·lillll' llil:o:-,nro ;rrrol <:o. ;r lll'dlillll' ;rlllw 1:o;rl lrrw •;lorv rni1111s llro· lrappy o'llllinl:~ 
I lrr ro11rllr rlow11. Ilo·ko· I :oop<'r r--1111ryn IIIIISI lr:n·r• ir:11i Sl'\'l'l';rl o·;llll<' 1111111 ;r pl;ry r·;rllo·rl "r;llnl' howl-; ,·,r 1:1111ir• l:l;rl,o·o., l'or hrPak~ I lr!ko Coopor (No 1) ltoqrll~> lilo cr)lf)IH;rlion ;Illor rnakrrl!Jiilo f)< IIllO ~;;IVIIHJ I;H;klo rm Mrkn CloiHJ. 
11r:11r" ;rrrrlo'l'llo.,lwd ( :Ioiii I ;rr11l l';r:-,1 as,,,. nonprrl'{lllp so1111· or ll11•,1o11 I :nii1•J:,..,, rlro·;"".., or llr;rl l;lrrlll' rrra1:ir· ;rs lu· llrro·w l'or 
plr· or I row I Iris lo·;1111 wirrs rool­1:riday look vir·lory ;rway rrorrr
knod.rrrg olf I ill' I :tllr r;11rkr·rl 11\'<'1' :100 y;rrdo, :11rd lrm111:lrl I ill' o,pro·;rd. Tl11· rr;IITow wirr ovt·r ;r 
h:rll,:;rllll'" ;rlld io., IIOlW 7. I. II ll11• l·:aglr•o; willr ;r l'!'rrslrirrg or
lrro.,h l·.;rglr•s willrin ;111 in.-lr ol'vidory. rrow :: (, lr·;rr11 willrrol inrprr·ss
.o;inr ply rr·rr~•,r·o, lo rolrl. Clo11rl, lw look li111r' 11111 111 gallwr llw M;rir~rr;rnr" I'IIIIIJIIIII'I'S Ihalllw o.,lrrrlr•rrl sr·r·lion l11rrwrl B11l il w;rsn'lr•rrorrJ:Ir 
II.Woll'il~r·lw;rl
o;ilr•lll, 0\Wo·o.;lrlld. l·.aj:l<· 11osr· 1:rr;rnl ( :lrrio., llov;r11 lrillrsdr lig11rr• II II' Bowl ( :lr;rnrpionslrip 
"!\ lr·;rtn willro11l f(r<•;rll'ill'rrr­
"Till' l.;rdy 1111 llw ll11rrr•· i·, sinrpi_y pl;r_yr•d Hill of lrio., 111i11d "lli·l'l likr· Slllll<'hriii,Y w;rs s.. ril's sl.;rnrlings. lt11lllrP~' l'llllld io.,lry ;r11d ;r II''"" wil.lro11l ;r lolor looking dowrro11 rrs," Jo't·irlay
'•llrili111: "" rro., riglrl 1111\\', .. 111';111 wro·;rkin1: lr;rvrw in llw lrio.,lr Jrp lll'iiiiPrl ror Sllllll'lhing SJII't'iaJ 
o·o;rl'h ltolr Il;r\'io• ~.;rid l'ir;o'r;ll'll'r Wo11Jd IIIII lr;rvr· lr;rrl s;rirl. "Wirr·rr il gol down lo ilrirrl Till' ltl :s doH'S 11111 l;rkl' inlo
h;ll'kli<'id r·;rrro.,i111: lwo 1'1111rlrlr·o, 
1111' good Uri111:., lr;rpJH'II 1.11 1111'111 down. I gol down orr rny kltl'l' orr
II' I ;orrLIIr··, li,.Jrlj(ll;rl 111 I'1'1:1 Ili( :osrrro o.,r·orr·d lwo lorwlrdowns ;11'1'1111111 l';rl'lors sul'lr as 1'11111<1­
llral lr;rpp<'IWrlllllhis ltoolh;rll 
lo IIP'•<'I llw No I r;11rkl'rl ln•,h r·. ;11rrl r;rd.r·d 11p 1·1() y;rnlo., r<·r·l'iV llw sid.,Jitws atul sairll.11nl ~:ivP radPrir', l'llill'iii'IPr. or n•silil'llt'Y. 
lr·;11rr ;rllill' <'Ill lor ll11• g;rn11•." lnl' ll11· .... lrPngllr lo rio wlr;rl l'nr 11'1111' Irish show lhosp lr;rils irr.
k1111\\ 11 ;ro., "Till' "il'k" i11 liri•, irl)! ill Ill'. lirr;rl lro "'"' g;11r11' 
I l;rvi" s;rirl. "I linnly hl'iii'V<' lh;rl O';rp;rlrlr• or doing."
rlo·\'o'lopi111: C:;rlholw riv;rlrv. llr<'ll lt11l llrn-;r• l'llorh wnr•n'l llll'il' I'P111aini11g g;r1nr•s. 1111' iti:S 
i111111•lrollorrrorrrrv l11•arl. l:o11rl I\IU11, Jw;rrtor U11· urrll;rpp;rltJ,.
1111 ... l;ro.,l trrirllrl•· will hi' k11owrr ;ro, r·nr urglr sl.;r11rlirrgs willlakl' l'arr• orllll'lll­"Tiw Sl;rrrrl " llrirrgs lr;rppr'll lo g;ood Jl1'11plr•." lrislr is l.l11•ir lu·lil'l' irrr•adrollll'r. sdvl's ;rnd Nolrr• l>aiiiP could
Tlw l·:a,:lo·s slrrr·rlrlood 1lw Irish "II w;rs o.,ilr•lll ill llw hrrrlrllr· ... dr·l'l'n.-;r· lior ·I'J I .v;rrds or lol;rl Tri l';rpl;rin 1-:ory Mi11or 1'1111-Whr•n ral'l·rl willr sil.11ali1111s llr;rl rdrrnr lo 1111' r;rllks or Ihi' r•lill' ill I'IIITPrl Willr Iris t·oal'it_ nr;ry makr· ollll'r l.l';llns rTn1nhlr•.
I :oopn o,;r irl "Wr• kIll'\\' wh;r I WI' olf<'IISI'. l'olll'gl' l'ool.ha II "Wp dl'iillildy IH·Iii'VI' Iha I. .. I his lr'anr is ill its litll'sl a11rl WlriiP if's dillkull l.o Sllllltna­
h;rrllo rln ar11l \\'1' rlrrl il \'1111 lt111 il wasrr'lr•rrorrglr 
l11• said. "Wr· lll'lir•vl' llr:rl wr•'rr• sl.l'lllrgr,sl..
lr;n·r· lolr11sl ill 1,'11111' ll';llrlltralr•s Tlw rrr:111 rr·sprorrsilrlr• lior "Tiw ril.l' a lt•;rrrr i11 a sirrgl .. ga1111• or a 
good pr•oplr• a11d lltal. llri11gs will
;r 1111 I ll11llk llr;r 1·., wlr;r I \\'I' rlirl ill 1-.:i.-k" irr ltoslo11 ( :oiiPgr•'s grl';ri­"Wr• play Wl'll logl'llll'r SPI'iPs, "TI11, St;rnrl" 11righl haVI' 
Work IIIII. iII ill I' I'll d. l•:vPII WirPII lu•c;IIISI' WI' krr11w ,.adroll11•r
ll11· go;r I li 111 • :-,I ;11rd." I'SI IIJISI'ii'VI'r ill llr;rl illr;riiiiiiiS doru• Ural. for llris ll';nn. 
llri11gs do11'l Sl'l'lll riglrt. WI' 'II Vl'ry wl'il." Minor said. "W,. li•r•rl
"h·r·r-,~·olll' lr;rrllo do llwir p;rrl I'J'J:t g;rnw w;ro, l11orron•d al lralr­"Anyl.irnr, yo11 go llrrrrrrglralways lirrrl ;r way 1.11 pull oil' P;ll·lr oU11•r. Wl11•1l yon lravr•
ar11llook willrill ll11•rrrsl'ivr·s." lillll'. lt;rrrrrr•rs across llw lhrl'l' or ro11r plays on i.hl' goal­
llrrouglr." 
Iitt' guys that. n·ally ('ai'P ;llurul 

l·rirl;r.\' o.,;rid "\'orr lr;rvr· lon•;rr·lr l:l11•sl11111 llilll';1111p11S ;1111llrriglrl litll', you know l.l11·.rr·. is sonll'­
Srorrrr· or II II' lrislt li·l'i ll11•rr•'s a l'a('lr oUII'r. llhink Ural will g«"l lhing spl'r·ial," Mi11or said. "Yo11dow11 ;1111ilirrrlllr;rl w;rrrl lo." yl'ilow T slrirls ro•;rd "Yo11 ( ;oll;r 
1211r """' o11lllwrl' lrl'lpirrg I his lhirrgs l.o happr·n lirr yotL ..
~1111'1' llw :\ritorr;r Sl;rlr• g;llrll'. Jtl'iiP\'1' .. k11ow Uii'i'o~\ sorrrdlri11g "l"''·ial 
ll';lln. 
"l·:v.,ryltorly on Uris l.r•;11n lr;rs

llu· lrro,lr lr;n'l' ;rd;r plr·rl ;r phrasr· lt111 llwv wr·n·rr'lr·rrollj:lr willr l.his l.r'iurr and lroprd'rrlly"M;ryhr• sotnr•rorll,·s looki11g rnariP ;r lro•nt<'llrlorrs 1'1'14orl."
l'ronr l'nrrlll'l' Nolro• I l;11111' l'liOII'il Pi11wr willr Uris sr~aso11." 
ovl'r 11s." Wl'av«"r said. "Brrl. wr· l;riday said_ "T«"HIIIS llral. makr•
ll;r 11 Ill'\ illo' II w;ro, ;r clay lirr Ill<' lrislr Tlris '"J'I'iiiiiS or dl'sfilly h;rvr~ go111J 
go 11111 llrr•rr• illlll lind a way lo Sil('rilil'o'S illl(l work hard ;rrr•
"ll11r h:rlllo· oT\' lr:lo.,l~r•r•rr ';r Nolr'l' Il;11rrr· lr·;rrn lrl'iil'vr•cl ;r rrd llrings lrappPII l.o it," M;rlr:olru

wirr.

I<''"" II r;rl w11rr·1 Ill' I" •;II, ,.;rrr'l didj11sl I'IIIIIIJ:ir Ill Will. "ThP goi11g to Sl't' U11• lwnl'iil.s." .lohnSOII said. "'J'Jris i-; ;r l.l'arn or 
I l11rirrg llrl' lillll'-11111 Jwl'orr· Tl11• Irish didrr'l.r·ovl'r ll11• dl'sliny."
J,.. lll'al."' To11_v Wr•;rvo•r s;rirl Sl;rnrl" SI'I'VPS ;rs ;r .-l;rssir· r·xa111­

• GAME NOTES AND 0UOTES
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
BC <~oach Tom O'Brh~n on his
COLLEGE FOOTBALL TOP 
playnrs and tlw dovast.ating Joss. 
''I 1:an't l.PII thnm in words l.lw pain that I l'nl'l for t.lwm." HC I'Unnlng bat~k Mik'1 Cloud: 
25 
Record Points Previous 
''Tiw ball was I ike on tlw in d1
Rank 
line. For us not to gl't an inl'h with thn offonslvn llno WI~ hnw' Is mlnd­I. Tenncsec ( 46) 8·0 1,718 2 
hoggling." llnad eouch Bob l>nvie: on IPllnrs
2. Kansas State ( 19) 9·0 1,677 4 
and hair dye hn's l'eeelvud rorH'I'I'II­
3. UCLA {4) 8·0 1,615 3 
ing how his job has arroelnd his
4. Florida 8·1 1,516 5 
appearanl'f\:). Florida St. (I ) 9·1 1.510 6 
"Tiwy told nw I looked oldnr lhan 6. Texas A&M 9·1 1.319 7 
.loll i>atnrno. I took home thn(Grnc;iun Formula) and my kids
7. Ohio State 8·1 I,311 I 
said don't worry about II., but thorn
8. Wisconsin 9~0 1.309 8 
is a bald spot 'startin~ and thllt I
9. Arizona 9~1 1.189 10 
nend som<' Hogaintl."I0. Arkansas 8~0 1.171 II 
on tho d1~t'(1nsivo stantl: II. Nebraska 8·2 931 14 
"You haw• to c~rndil. l.hnlr eourugo and IIH'ir rclsilience. The bottom
12. Notre Dame 7·1 899 13 
linl~ is they knpt tlwm out or tlw ('lld
13. Missouri 7·2 752 18 
zonn. 

..
14. Tulane 8-0 747 15 
Kory Minor: 
'")")

15. Michigan 7-2 729 _.. 
''It's obvious wn didn't play well lti. Virginia Te<.:·h 7-1 722 15 
today. WP didn't do llw lilllo things 
right. But you know what. a win's a ll11•y IIIIIVI' 1.111' hall Vo•ry Wl'll," 
17. Georgia 6-2 596 19 r•xplosivr• olll'nsivr• lr•a111 a11d 
win.

IH. Texas 7-2 577 20 Game 
Dektl Coop,•r: on Uw final play in
ilo'IISIIII said_ "Thr•_v I' all gPI
19. Penn St. 6-2 575 9 
ttw dnf,,nsive stand: 20. Oregon 7-2 498 21 
t'Oitlillll!'d fro111 pag<' I down thl' l'iPid quirkly al :rn_v 
"I was thinking if Jw 1:onws my
limP so WI' knr•w WP had 111 pul 
way, I have to mak11 a play... lt. wns
21 . Virginia 7-2 360 12 aslrnrr11ling 1111li11g. llr• r·olltplr•ll'd poinls 1111 till' hoiird l.o lwlp o11r 
my blggnsl. hil. nvor. J)pspift' his ill;thilit_v to I'OIIVI'r( !'llllldu'J hPip lhPtn 1;101'1' 
22. Georgia Tech 6-2 315 23 22 or :1:> ;rllr·lltpl.s l'or :11 S .varrls_ rJr•ri'IISI' IIIII.. llllrorl.llllaiPiy WI' 
Notre Dunw dd'<'nse has not. givCln
2J. Air Force 8-1 260 25 
up a touchdown in tlw third qwu·tnr
1111 rorrrllr ;rnd go;rl: Cloud 1'1111-Ihough."
24. Miami 5-2 244 24 
!.his SNI.SO!l. 25. Wymoning 8-1 69 
lillll<'rl on his rr·lr•rrllr•ss go;rlor a Till' tir'ri'IISiVI' dl'orl in lhr· 
Autl·y l>tmsnn's 100-ynrds rushing rrp 1·11 yards 1111 2<"' l'arrir•s. sq 11ads lli'W sloga 11 or .Y"" 
NR 1.000 yard SPasorL Ill' l'ltalkl'd rourl.lr q11arl.r•r Ppilomi;.r•s lhl' 
tied him with Alltm Pink<'ll. for most "\VI' kill'\\' IIII',Y Wl'l'l' i1 VPr_y rl'llll'nlhl'r what yo11 rio i11 
I00 ynrd rushing gnmns with 21. 

,----------~-----­
-----~--------~-­
page 4 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 9, 1998 


NOTRE DAME 31 BOSTON COLLEGE 26 ALUMNI STADIUM, NOVEMBER 7, 1998 
Photos by Kevin Dalum 

~-----~--~ 
s€~ne 
O THE
Monday, November 9, 1998------------------BSERVER ----------------------pagell 
• VIDEO PICK OF THE WEEK • 

Scene Movie Critic 
!lave you ever wondered about the person sitting next to you on a bus or airplane, knowing that you will pass the next fnw hours of your life with that person and aftP.r that time, you will probably never son that person again'? 
Did you ever think about how many pP.opln we cross paths with in our lives, and how few we really get to know? 
Any o1w of tlwse peoph~ could possi­bly bP your soul mate, or, for those of you who do not belinvn in that sort of ihing, someone to whom you could be emotionally conneetml. 
Was thorn PVI~r SOIIlP­OIW you saw, maybn just for a few seconds. hut felt like you k1ww them a I r ~~ad y '! And BPforn you could do anything about it. lw or she had JHLSSIHI in a crowd. Then, you forever won­der, "what if'!" 
"Bnforn 
This is an excellent concept for a movie because it is something that can happen to any one of us. 
What makes "Before Sunrise" a superb movie is the thought provoking conversation that the two characters share in the few hours that they spend 
together. They bare their souls in a way that is difficult, unless you know you will never see the person to whom you are speaking to again. As you lis­ten to the characters on-screen, you will hear echoes of your own thoughts 


Ethan Hawke (left) and Julie Delpy star in "Before
Sunrise," get to know
Sunrise."
directed by Hichard l.inklater. ("Dazed and Confused," "The Nmvton Boys") explores tlw pos­sibility of "what if'?" 
ll tells tho story of two pnople who meet by chanee on a train traveling through Europe and decide that they have some sort of connection. They get off tlw train and spend one night together walking around Vienna. forming an intimate bond which they know must lw broken the next day when their paths inevitably diverge. 
Ethan Hawke plays the young American man who, on his last night in Europn, mods .Iulie l>elpy's charae­tnr, a J<'J·nneh woman of approximately the same agn, who is traveling back to 
that are fascinating but too random or weird to ever share with anyone. Contemporary film audiences are 
frnqunntly asked to believe that a cou­ple will fall madly in lovo and live happily ever-after. while only having spent a • few moments of screen time together. 
Julie Delpy and Ethan Hawke depart from this trend, because 
they are the only two characters in this film. 
As these 
two people 
CHART*TOPPERS 

The Wizard of Oz ($5. 5 mil Ilion) Antz ($5.4 million) 

6. 
Living Out Loud ($4.5 million) 

7. 
Practical Magic ($4.3 million) 


8. 
John Carpenter's Vampires ($4.0 million) 9. Belly ($3. 7 million) 


10. Rush Hour ($3.5 million) 
Source: Associated Press 
Video Title 

1
. · City of Angels 

2. 
Mercury Rising 

3. 
A Perfect Murder 

4. 
Wild Things 

5. 
Lost in Space 

6. 
The X-Files 

7. 
Primary Colors 

8. 
Hope Floats 

9. 
The Wedding Singer 


10. 
The Spanish Prisoner 


Source: Billboard Online 


Video Title 

1. 
Titanic 


2. 
Lady and the Tramp 

3. 
The X-Files 


4. 
Lost in Space 

5. 
Hope Floats 


6. 
The Evil Dead 

7. 
Paulie 

8. 
Austin Powers 

9. 
Quest For Camelot 

10. 
Starship Troopers 


Source: Billboard Online 

each other, 
the audience gets to know them as well. The char­acters arc real people who we know not only through their actions on se•·een, but through the stories they tell about their pasts. 
Inevitably, the two characters fall in love and are faced with the question of' what to do in the moming. 
Was their relationship only meant to bn an isolated experience'? And is it ovon possible for them to be any more to each other since they livP. on oppo­sitt~ sides of the ocean? 
Thn film answers these questions in its own way, but it also presents the most important question of all, "what would you do?'' 
• CRYSTAL BALLS 
Hollywood targets female audiences this Friday the 13th. 
Friday the 1:Hh is upon us, and llollywood 's supernatural l.lXtravaganza continues. Opening on this holiday of supt~rstition is the "I Still Know What You Did Last Summer," "MeAt Joe Bltu~k" and "I'll Be Homo For Christmas." 
The follow-up to 1997's "I Know What You Did Last SumnHw," "1 Still Know What You Did Last Summer" once again stars "Party of Five" ac~IJ·nss, .Jonnifilr LovB Hewitt. 
This time, though, the film doos not have the fortunes of scriptwriter Kevin Williamson, who is currently juggling "Dawson's Creek" and the third installment of the "Scream" franchise. 
But the addition of singer Brandy should add some spice to a film that begs the question, "where else can it go?" 
This time around, Howitt and company find themselves in an island paradise vacationing. Of course, the villain from the first film makos his way onto tho island, where he wreaks havoc on Hewitt and friends. It should make fiJr an exciting flick, as the teens are basically trapped in that island paradise. 
We also get the feeling from the previPws that Hewitt's char-actor has been obs•)sslng over the retum of the hooked killer since the last film. when he was simply lost in the oeean. 
The ftlm should do well con­sidering the growing popularity of' Hollywood's new film genre, tho ~Party of Five" horror sequel. 
Taking a whack at romantic drama, Brad Pitt stars in "Meet Joe Black." Pitt plays the per­sonification of Death in this loose remake of' 1934's "Death Takes a Holiday." The integral plot point is that during his time on earth, Death (Joe Black) falls in love with his victim's (Anthony Hopldns) daughter. 
This film also stars peanut butter, as Pitt discovers that it feels and ta..<;tes good. Thi'> scene and others will capture female audiences, not suprisingly, and as several films this year have proven, give the female demo· graphic much more power at the box office. 
Finally, the parade of Christmas films begins with "I'll Be Home For Christmas," star­ring Jonathan Taylor Thomas as a college student trying to get home in a Santa Claus costume. His ultimate goal is to get horne to his girlfriend and a Porsche. Once again the female audi· ences will make this film a wiJ.i. ner. 
This will be a key 'sweeps' weekend as the holiday movie season has an early start. 
Box Office Prediction: 1. I Still Know ... 2. Meet Joe Black ... 3. 


At the video store 
The Horse Whisperer (Nov.10) Small Soldiers (Nov. 1 0) Armageddon (Nov. 13) 
Source: Hollywood.com 

! 
' 
page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 9, 1998 
ward Shane Walton. The season, the Irish lacked game the second, this time complet­attack -controlling the ball in freshman quickly became an experience on it, but attempt­ing five shots. the midfield and working the
M. Soccer 
integral part of the team's ed to makeup for it with prac­Still, the Irish were unable to ball up to the front third of the 
continued from page 20 
"Defensively, we just dido 't step up, or we were just a lit­tle too late when we did to cover their chances," said Johnson. 
On the other side of the ball, the Red Storm defense had the Irish seeing red in the contest, especially after a dismal open­ing half. Not only did St. John's gain a 2-0 lead, but they also pinned them to the wall, allowing them just two shots. 
"We were pressing hard in the game, but we weren't moving the ball enough to get chances on the goal," said for-attack this season. leading the Irish and all Big East rookies in scoring with 10 goals and seven assists. But just like the rest of the offense, he was not able to provide 
a spark, coming up with just one shot in the 90 minutes of play. 
"The turf hindered me, but its not an excuse for my poor play," he added. 
The turf, or least playing at DaSilva Field, certainly did nothing to improve Notre Dame chances. With this weekend's loss, the team is 0­3-0 at the Astroturf home of the Storm, including a 1-0 loss last year. Not having competed on turf since that game last tices last 
week at Loftus' Meyo Field, the indoor turf practice field. 
"Obviously the ball was run­ning a lot," said Maio. "Because of that we didn't have the chance to finish up much of our plays. We did play better than we did [in the St. John's game last year}, when we had no shots at all. This time, it wasn't that we didn't have the chances, we just didn't capValize on them." 
Maio, a bench midfielder uti­lized by coach Berticelli in recent games to spark a move aggressive team in the second half, got his first start in the game. Notre Dame still came out with a stronger effort in start a comeback, giving Storm goaltender Dan Popik his fifth shutout of the season. For the Irish, their play was not what they expected. Entering the game focusing on pressing the Storm so their long-ball passes up field would not result in long-ball passes upfield, Notre Dame was able to get more play at midfield, where they 
thought they would control. 
"Part of our play was that we'd win the first ball [the long St. John's passes]. and then control the ball," explained Maio. "But we got the first and they controlled the ball after the second." 
The result was devastating to the heart of Notre Dame's 

field. 
The loss was one the team, especially the seniors, did not expect at the season's onset. 
"Its difficult to end the sea­son like this," explained Johnson .. "We had a lot of expectations at the beginning of the season and its difficult that we dido 't fulfill them. 
"But [the seniors) want to be able to walk off the field know­ing you've accomplished some­thing for the team. We've shown the younger players though example that we want­ed to win, we wanted to play, we carried the enthusiasm. Hopefully they'll carry that the next couple of years. That's how tradition is built." 
Hockey  ly come unraveled at that point. However, the Irish soon  pace continued into the third period as the Irish held a 5-2 lead. Led by their speedy for­ od and in overtime, both goal­tenders played superbly, as numerous odd-man rushes by  plined gameplan, the II uskies found themselves shorthanded seven times, which again  
continued from page 20 found themselves on a 5 on 3 --------'-----power play advantage after  wards, BC managed to force turnovers in the Irish end. thus  both teams went for naught. In some sense, the game  translated into three Irish goals. In fact, the game's first  
around the defense for a back- two undisciplined plays by the  creating numerous scoring  Saturday night against the  five  goals  were  all  on  the  
hand shot which was stopped  Eagles. Notre Dame scored  chances. After BC hit the post  Northeastern Huskies was an  power play (3-2 NO), as the icc  
by the goaltender, only for it to  twice on that power play with­ earlier in the period, Chris  even bigger character test for  was not as open as it was the  
hit  a  BC  defenseman  and  in a span of fourteen seconds  Masters managed  to  score  the Irish, who came in follow­ night before for the offensive  
sneak between the legs of  to open up a three goal lead,  from the low slot to make it a  ing an emotional, tiring game  players to create chances at  
Scott Clemmensen. Simon's  thus taking full advantage of  5-3 game.  against BC. Coach Dave Poulin  even strength.  
goal  seemed  to  swing  the  BC's mistakes. After sopho­ What followed  was two tal­ made some lineup changes for  Fatigue became a  factor in  
momentum  in favor of the  more Dan Carlson scored to  ented offensive teams going  Saturday's  game.  Junior  the late going for the Irish, as  
Irish,  as Aniket Dhadphale  give the Irish a 4-2 lead, fresh­ toe-to-toe, with each team cre­ defenseman Nathan Borega  the Huskies  
notched his fifth goal of the  man David Inman continued  ating scoring chances and odd­ saw his first action of the sea­ peppered their net with 24  
year near the end of the first  his impressive offensive play  man rushes. In a span of 2:58,  son  as  he  replaced Tyson  shots in the final two periods,  
period,  followed  by  Brian  by sending a beautiful cross­ beginning with Masters's first  Fraser at defense. Also, John  capitalizing on turnovers and  
Urick's seventh goal of the  ice pass to linemate Matt Van  goal, BC managed to cash in  Dwyer and Craig Hagkull got  poor passing in the defensive  
season  18 seconds into the  Arkel, which the sophomore  three times to tie the score at  their first ice time of the year  zone.  However, despite the  
second period.  wing banged home to make it  five, putting the Conte Forum  on Notre Dame's fourth line.  fatigue, senior captain Brian  
After the Irish seized a 3-1  5-2. Van Arkel's goal was the  into a frenzy. However, it was  While Northeastern sported  Urick deflected in Cotnoir's  
lead, the events that followed  team's third on the power  not as if the Irish were being  a young team with good speed,  point shot for the game winner  
proved to be a crucial test for  play, and they finished the  outplayed by BC, said Dave  the game had a totally differ­ with 7:24 to play.  
the Irish, which they passed  night 3 for 7 with the man  Poulin: "Even though the goals  ent feel than Friday's game.  Of  concern  for  the  Irish  
with flying colors. After a mad  advantage.  came  so  close  together,  I  Northeastern  coach  Bruce  against the Huskies was the  
-­ scramble in front of the net.  When asked whether his  wouldn't call what happened a  Crowder's gameplan against  fact that Northeastern outshot  
Tony Hutchins was credited  team's offense relied too much  flurry. ·In between each of the  the Irish was simple: Hit hard  them 37-33, only the second  
with a questionable goal, as he  on  the  power  play.  coach  goals, there were chances at  and hit often.  time all season the Irish have  
jammed the puck underneath  Poulin said, "I don't think so.  both ends."  The plan was to wear down  allowed 30 shots or more, and  
Irish goalie Forrest Karr after  When you play against the top  After the Eagles tied the  Notre Dame's top line, as the  the first time since the first  
Karr had it in his glove and  teams, the power play has to  game midway through the  Huskies seemed to target Irish  game of the season. Irish goal­ 
the whistle had apparently  be a huge component. Those  period, the Irish faced another  captain Brian Urick with some  tender Forrest Karr made 34  
been blown. Hutchins's goal  are nights when your power  stern test, as they played a  clean body checks, as well as  saves as he outdueled NU's  
closed the Irish lead to one  play must be there."  tense third period in a hostile  some not-so-clean checks.  Scott Sutton, who was impres­ 
goal, and they could have easi- The game's fast,  intense  environment. In the third peri- As a result of their undisci­ sive in his first collegiate start.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining HalL Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refUnds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!l Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies, we're open! 
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!springbreaktravel.com 1-800-678-6386 
Four Flags Antique Mall Holiday Open House Nov. 14th & 15th Prizes Refreshments Special Sales 218 S. 2nd St. Downtown Niles Ml 
ILOST & FOUND I 
LOST: GOLD RING BETWEEN SIEGFRIED AND BOND HALL BEFORE BREAK. MICHAEL @ 4­4862 
WANTED 
CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED 
EARN UP TO $11.00 Part-time work around class. No telemarketing. Car needed Scholarships available. call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed. 282-2357. 
Driver Needed From ND to anywhere in Oregon/Washington after finals. Snow tires and 4-wheel drive. $200 plus gas Insurance required Shawn at 271-8250 
•ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST SPRING BREAK PRICES TO SOUTH PADR.E (FREE MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY­WEST, PANAMA CITY.REPS NEEDEDfTRAVEL FREE, EARN CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR 6+. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 800-838-8203. 
SPRINGBREAK Florida,Texas,Cancun,Mexico,Jama ica,etc. Browse www.icpt.com and call BOO-327.-6013.Best hotels,pprices and parties.Reps,organizations, and promoters wanted.lnter-Campus Programs 
CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT-Workers earn up to $2000+/month (w/tips & benefits). World Travei!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­$7000/summer.Ask us how! 517­336-4235 Ext.C55841 
WANTED: 
OFFICIALS FOR INTERHALL BASKETBALL. IF INTERESTED CONTACT DeMOND THOMAS AT 631-3536 OR REC SPORTS. 
Holiday Banquet servers needed please apply in person. 222 S. Michigan street. 234-5200 *lntesested in Making Money•• Large Physical Therapy & Sports Rehab Center looking for studtmts to make Follow-up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. 
Filing and some coputer entry may be required. Flexible hours. 
••call Gerard or Doug Now!•• 
233-5754 
FOR RENT] 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll Road,Exit #107 1-800-418-9487 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. 
1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. 
AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999.272­
6306 

4,5,or 6 in your group?l have the houses for you-call Greg 233-9947 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5BEDROOM 232-2595 
••Looking for a place off-campus?•• Nice efficiency apartment, 375/month, utilities included, close to campus call NOW 283-0406 
FORSALE] 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 
198 MIN. $20 
CALL 258-4805 FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! Bed box set. not available in 
U.S. call pete at 251-0178. 
Beautiful brass bed,queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New,never used,still in plas­tic.$225 219-862-2082 
1 BLK. So. of N.D. ALL BRICK RANCH 728 PEASHWAY 3 BED ROOMS-2 FULL BATHS 2 FIREPLACES-2 CAR GARAGE FINISHED BASEMENT PHONE 272-2252 
*****************"'************ 
MICHIGAN-NEW BUFFALO 
New Condos overlook the vast wet­
lands. Walk to town/beach. Under $190k. 
Ruth Realtors 1-888-225-RUTH 
**************••••• ************ 
PHONECARDS $20 buys 282 mins. Contact: 
Andrea -634-2584 Dori -684-3339 MiMi -634-0907 
TICKETS 

I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix 
BUY-SELL 674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Need LSU tix 
289-2918 
2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by 
11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 
x47091v msg 
Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048 
NEED 4 LSU GA TIX. 
CALL 257-1141. 
NEED 2 LSU TIX!!! 
call kev 0673 
ND vs. Navy Football Ticket!! 
(219)634-1439 
MUST SELL!! 
Wanted: Navy tickets. Call 634­3341 and ask tor Mark. 
A FAMILY NEEDS 2 OR 4 
I.U. vs ND LOWER ARENA BASKETBALL. 2771659 
PERSONAL 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST! II 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring 
Break" Spring Break Packages are going last. Check out our Hot Jamaica Packages for the Class of '99!Stop in at Anthony Travel in the LaFortune Student Center and check out the best Spring Break vacations around.Get your deposit in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a chance with an unknown agency or some 1-800 number.Limited space available,so book now! 
Anthony Travel,lnc. 
LaFortune Student Center 
631-7080 
Looking for a unique gift? 
Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures and we'll create a custom color cal­endar. 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center 
IDEA CLUB -Now Forming­219-675-4902 
Leslie Malito, I thank God everyday tor giving me sight for if I were without it, I'd con­sider you a wonderful dream. W.E.B. 
Spoonball: Catch the Fever. 
God help us ... we're in the hands of engineers. 
This one goes out to Mike Cooley ... 


-------------------~---------------------~----------­
Monday, November 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

The Office of the Provost Emeritus and the Joan B. Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies Present: "The Catholic Church in China" a discussion by The Most Rev. Aloysius Jin, S.J. Bishop of Shanghai Tuesday, November 1 0 4:15p.m. C-1 03 Hesburgh Center Chair: Timothy O'Meara, Provost ~meritus  
The Most Reverend Aloysius Jin, S.J., Bishop of Shanghai, has been .fin important figure in the development of the Catholic Church in China. A devout child whose attendance at daily Mass and participation in a serious prayer life was fostered by his mother, the young Jin maintained his fervor despite her death when he was nine years old. A Jesuit retreat when he was sixteen confirmed his desire to conse­crate his life to Christ. He entered the Shanghai Seminary, studied literature, philosophy and languages and later taught at a nearby boarding school. Believing that he was called to yet deeper service of God, he entered the Society of Jesus (Jesuits) in his early twen­ties. Ordained a priest in 1945, he served the Church in China until his superiors, fearing for his safety, sent him to France to complete his Jesuit training. Studies followed in France, Ireland and Rome, where he received his doctorate in Theology and Dogmatics from Gregorian University. Despite efforts to keep him in Europe, Dr. Jin believed that his place was with his Chinese people and returned there in 1951. He served then as rector of the Shanghai Seminary and later as Superior of all Jesuits in China. In 1953 he was arrested and incarcerated by the Chinese communist government. For the next 25 years he remained their prisoner, finally freed in 1982. After his release he returned to Shanghai and has worked tirelessly since then for the open church in China. Elected Bishop of Sh~nghai in 1984, he re-established the Shanghai Seminary with a serious curriculum of studies, founded a ccmvent, developed a library containing religious books and classics in seven languages, and is working on the translation and publication of the Jerusalem Bible in Chinese. He has consistently striven to implement the spirit of Vatican II in the liturgy and life of his people. Even today in his eighties, he maintains the vigorous devotion to his Savior and his Church which deepened his life from boyhood to the present.  
ALL ARE WELCOME! For More Information, contact the Office of the Provost Emeritus at 631-9500  

Saint :NJ:a.ry•s College ~ot:re I>am.e 
26TH ANNUAL 
LONDON SUMMER 
PROGRAM 
MAY 19TH -JUNE 18TH, 1999 
Courses offered in History, Education, Biology, Philosophy and International Business. 
For further information contact: 
Profe~j!nr llavirl Stt,fancic Professor Tom J>arisi :'14 Madeleva Uall, Room 347 37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152 Saint Mary's College Saint Mary's College Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 (219) 284-4462 (219) 284-4529 dstefancr!i}saintmarys.cdu tparisiCQ}saintmarys.edu 
Fax: London Summer Program (219) 284-4716 
Lakeysia Beene and Jen Grubb earn Big East player of the year honors 
Special to the Observer 
Notre Dame women's soccer junior All-Americans Lakeysia Beene and Jen Grubb were voted Big East players of the year by a vote of the league coaches during the award cere­mony of the Big East champi­onship banquet on Thursday night. 
Beene was voted Big cast goalkeeper of the year, the first time the award has been pre­sented, while Grubb was named Big east defensive player of the year. Grubb is the second straight player to win defense player of the year after former Irish All-American and current 
U.S. national team member Kate Sobrero won the award as a senior in 1997. 
Seton llall junior Kelly Smith was voted Big cast offensive player of the year lor the second 

• 
consecutive year, while Connecticut's Mary-Frances Monroe was voted Big East rookie of the year. Connecticut head coach Len Tsantiris was voted conference coach of the year for the second time of his career. 
Beene and Gmbb walso were named to the All-Big East first team, along with teammates Jenny lleft and Anne Maniken. Notre Dame led thn All-Big East first team with four selections, whiln Connecticut, Seton llall and Syracusn each placed two on the first tnam. 
Senior forward Monica Gerardo, Notre Dame's all-time leading goal seorer, was joined on the second team by junior All-American Jenny Streil'fer. Irish freshman midi"ielder Lindsey Jones was a unanimous selection to the Big East all­rookie. 
,­
1 
I 
The Observer/Liz Lang 
The team hopes to close out the season on a high note against West Virginia and Pittsburgh. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Women's Veter~ Boxing Me1et1111g ry informational meeting boxing room,. downstairs n• ........,: .• Juv·o;.-; ' ing for the spring · please call Meghan 
Faculty/StatT/Family to the Eck Tennis Pavilion for this Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis . Playing Situations hightlight this Wednesday, Nov. 18, Don't forget your registration necessary. Call RecSports 
mation. -'"'"'""'· 
Student Tennis clhlie -Come Varsity Tennis Team .for.Stroke tuuuy:s11s this free clinic on Nov. 16, 6~7:30 and tennis· sh,oesto t~<rEc~ Tennis tration required; ···· For:' more inform 6100. ' 
----------~ -~-~­
----.---.....--~~-­
.... 

The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 9, 1998 
said Girton. "This was a hugp, "This gives us definitely emo­weekend for us. Now that tional advantage over other
V-ball 
we're on top where we should teams because we know we 
be, we've just got to keep play­can beat them." said
continued from page 20 
ing tough." Treadwell. "Going into the Big attempts, and added 13 digs. It Treadwell just missed a dou­East tournament in two weeks, was the fifth straight double­ble-double, with 15 digs and we're excited because we know double for the outside hitter, nine kills, and only tallying one we can beat the other teams. I who has stepped up her game error. Junior opposite Emily just think every day we're in recent weeks. Schiebout had a strong match, improving, and that's the main 
"She's been really steady," with 15 digs and 10 kills. thing." said Brown of Girton. "It's very Freshman Marcie Bomhack This marks three straight indicative of the way she's added 12 kills for the team, wins for the Irish for the first been practicing. She's a stabi­and Lcffers had six blocks. time all season. The team lizer for our team." The Irish had a hitting per­heads to Pittsburgh and West 
"Compared to where we centage of .259 to the Wildcats' Virginia this weekend to dose were about a month ago, I .122, outblocking Villanova 12-· out the conference regular sea­think we've taken big strides," 8. son. 
KRAMER TIMES 
NOVEMBER 1998 Volume 1 Issue 1 

*Domus Properties has two, five, six and 
nine bedroom student housing available *Student neighborhoods close to campus *Security systems provided 
_........ _*Well maintained homes *Maintenance staff on call 
Available for the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer (219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 
Course Offerings in the Department of Classics, Spring 1999 Classical Antiquity CLAS 306 01 (HIST 306, 306A) ROMAN HISTORY Mazurek (TH 11:00-12:15) Sure, you've all heard of Julius Caesar-but what do you really know about the culture that produced him? This course traces the development of Roman civilization through the major political, religious, and social institutions of the Roman Republic and Empire. Major topics will include Rome's conquests in Europe and the Mediterranean, the careers of Julius Caesar and the emperor Augustus, and Rome's treatment of foreign peoples and institutions, e.g. Christianity. CLAS 309 01 GREEK LITERATURE IN TRANSLATION Schlegel (MWF 9:35-10:25) The literature of the Greeks has exercised a perennial attraction on the Western imagination, from the Romans down to our own times. Don't let it be 'all Greek to you'! Find out what some of the attraction is in this course, an introduction to the major literary and historical writings of ancient Greece, from the archaic period to Hellenistic times. CLAS 312 01 (HIST 313, AFAM 312) SLAVERY IN ANCIENT GREECE AND ROME Flint-Hamilton (T H 9:30-10:45) Who were the slaves of the ancient world? How were they acquired? What was expected of them? What could they expect in return? This is the place to learn not only about slavery in the ancient western world, but also about the ethical, spiritual, and political considerations upon which ancient legislation was built, and that infonned policy and legislation regarding slaves in the modem world. CLAS 423 01 (ARHI 423 01,523 01) GREEK ARCHITECTURE Rhodes (T H 11:00-12:15) We've all admired images of ancient Greek temples in travel brochures-but what did they mean in their context to the people building them? This course traces the development of Greek monumental architecture from the 8th fo 2nd c.B.C. and treats themes like the relationship between landscape and religious architecture, symbol­ism and allusion through architectural order, and the humanization of temple d~inities. CLAS 460 01 (ENGL 413E) GREEK TRAGEDY Vacca (T H 9:30-10:45) The Greeks invented tragic drama to express their tragic view of life and invented philosophy to overcome it. Which prevailed? How does the perennial struggle about the deep truths of the human condition continue now? Learn about the religious drama ofAeschylus, the existential theater of Sophocles, the subversive an of Euripides, and Plato's counterattack-all fundamental to the course of Western literature and philosophy. Irish CLffi 301 01 THE ffiiSH IN THEIR OWN WORDS: READINGS IN IRISH LANGUAGE POETRY 1600-1900 McQuillan (MWF 11 :45-12:35) You may be familiar with some Anglo-Irish literature, but did you know there are also literary productions in the native Irish language? Consider some of them in this course, in particular those from 1600-1900, a period of crisis for the Irish ;md their cultural and linguistic well-being. The texts will be read in English translation but students will gain some working familiarity with the Irish through facing translations. Near Eastern Literature MELC 360 01 CANON AND LITERATURE OF ISLAM Afsaruddin (MWF 11:45-12:35) Do you want to open up a window on a whole new world of literature next semester and truly challenge yourselves? You can do both by taking this introductory course on major religious works of the Islamic Middle East. We will read selections from the Qur'an, the biography and sayings of the Prophet Muhammad, universal histories, and exquisite mystical poetry. All readings in English translation. FOR INFORMATION ON THESE COURSES, AND ON COURSES IN LATIN, GREEK, ARABIC AND IRISH, CONTACT THE DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS (1-7195).  

~~----------. 
Monday, November 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
.NFL 
Banks comes alive as Rams triumph over Bears 
A.\\odaled Prt"ss all season today, " said Banks, after a bye week for the Bears 
who was booed by St. Louis fans (3-6). who had won two straight 
CHICAGO two weeks ago after staying and three of their last four. 
Sonwhow, th!) Chieago Bears' behind after the team's loss in Just like they have all year, quarterback shuffle and Tony Miami and skipping a film ses­though, the Bears made it lively Banks' little "break " a few sion. at the end. A safety closed weeks ago don't seem so impor­"Por one reason or another, I Chicago to 20-12 with 1:59 left, tant now. can't put my linger on it, I woke and after the Rams punted, the 
Banks completed 24 of 31 up this morning and I didn't Bean> took over on their own 27. passns for 202 yards and one have as many butterOies in my After a pass-interference call touchdown and ran for another stomach as there have been, " and a 5-yard penalty, Steve sc.orp Sunday as the St. Louis he said. "'We had a grnat game Stenstrom, making his first-ever Ba111 s IHHt t thn Bn a r s 20-1 2 . plan in today, and we stuck to it. NPL start, threw a 48-yard pass !!icky Proehl, Chicago's lnading .. to Bobby Engram to put the n~e~~iver last year, caught eight The victory broke a throe­Bears at the·Rams 20. passns for 99 yards and a score, game losing streak for the Hams But after Edgar Bennett's 11­and .lnfl' Wilkins kicked two field (3-6) and was their first win· in yard run, Stenstrom wasted a goals. Chicago since Nov. :~. 1986. It down by spiking the ball to stop 
"I was as rPiaxnd as I've been was the first loss in four years the clock. I lis next three passes 


For tin1e and location of meeting'! call: l-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude'! C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
-to Curtis Conway, Engram and Chris Penn -were incom­plete. 
"It's probably better to do that, get in the huddle and make the right call, than analyze it from the line of scrimmage, " Stenstrom said of the spike. "We probably could have had a fourth play that would have given us another shot at the end zone, and as it turned out, we would have loved that shot back, but I don't question it at all. " 
Curtis Enis' rookie season came to an abrupt end when the Bears tailback tore knee liga­ments. 
Enis, the fifth overall pick of the draft, tore the anterior cruci­ate ligament in his left knee, according to a team release sev­eral hours after the game ended. Enis rushed for 76 yards and 18 carries in the game, his first NPL start. 
Stenstrom. who was starting in place of injured Erik Kramer, was solid most of the day. Though he hadn't played a down since last November and his last start was in 1994 -when he was still wearing a Stanford uni­form -he came out looking like he does this every week. 
He completed his first nine passes, not missing until about 30 seconds before halftime. He moved the Bears 70 yards in 12 plays on the first drive, hitting Penn with a 27-yard pass and even scrambling for 14 yards. He capped the drive with a 4­yard scoring pass to Conway, giving the Bears a 7-0 lead. 
But Stenstrom needed help and didn't get much of it. Conway caught just three passes for 27 yards, dropped a pass in the end zone and botched a trick play to Engram that could have led to another score. 
"Today's game for me was just terrible. there's no excuse for it. It's just totally not accept­able, " Conway said. "Instead of just going out there and playing football. there was a whole lot of things going through my head. " 
Stenstrom finished 15-of-2 5 for 154 yards with orre touch­down and an interception. 
"It's hard to be too objective at this point with the team not winning," he said. "I wanted to come in and be efficient and give this team a chance to win th1~ game. We'll see on film what I could have done better. " 

Banks, meanwhile, did every­thing right and so did the play­ers around him. The Hams came in ranked 20th in passing offense, while the Bears had the fifth-best pass defense in the league, but the roles were reversed Sunday. 
St. Louis moved the ball at will as Banks threw short, quick hitches to move the Hams. IIn got excellent protection from his line and spread his passes around. 
"It's nice to sen him growing here, going into the second half of the season, " Hams coach Diek Vermeil said. "It helps him grow and he experiences sue­cess. he knows he can do it. lin stepped up and made some big plays." 
lie hit Proehl with a 3-yard scoring pass on the Hams' first drive to tic the game at 7. With 58 seconds left in the first half, Banks was on the Bears 7 -yard line when Marty Carter came flying at him. Carter missed, and Banks took off for the end zon1~. scoring on the 7 -yard keeper to make it 14-7. 
The Hams got field goals of 24 and 33 yards in the second half. while Jeff Jaeger kicked a 31­yard field goal for the Bears. 
Vikings 31. Saints 24 
The best quarterback situation in the NFL suddenly has become one of the most muddled, and Jay Piedler might be the only answer for the Minnesota Vikings. 
Randall Cunningham and Brad Johnson were injured in the Vikings' 31-24 victory Sunday over the New Orleans Saints, possibly jeopardizing Minnesota's status as the NPC front-runner. 
Cunningham left in the first quarter when he injured his right knee on a sack. Johnson, the starter until he broke his right leg in Week 2, took over but broke the thumb on his throwing hand on the first play of the third quarter when he hit it on a helmet. Nonetheless, he played the entire second half. 
Johnson was to see a hand specialist Sunday night. Cunningham, the backup who became the top-rat1~d passer in the NFL, will have surgery Monday and might bn ready for next week's game against Cineinnati. 
Marketing 101: Words That Sell 
See, it worked. So stop by Fazoli's for free soh drink refills and unlimited 
Free! 
freshly baked breadsticks when you dine in. Hurry. Save. No coupon required. 100% Guaranteed. 
As seen on TV. 
.,. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bmd 317 W. McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nnppmzee Street, 262-9873, Elklzart 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 9, 1998 
• INTERHALL fOOTBAL 
Pyros tame the Wild Women in 13-0 shutout 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOLA 
Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Pasquerilla East Pyros shutout the No. 2 Wild Women from Walsh 13-0 last Sunday in the 1998 interhall semifinals. 
The victory advances Pasquerilla East to the champi­onship game in Notre Dame Stadium for the second straight year. 
"We're really excited to have a chance to play in the cham­pionship again," Pasquerilla East captain Alison Healy said. 
On the opening drive, the Pyros established their offen­sive plan of attack for the entire game. Starting at their own 15-yard line, the Pyros marched their way downfield under the leadership of quar­terback Elizabeth Plummer. 
On the third play of the drive Plummer connected with Anne Sorel for a ten yard pass. Sorel dodged one defender and con­tinued down the sideline for a touchdown. 
Plummer found Keri Henley open in the endzone to com­
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 
plete the extra point and build a 7-0 lead. Stephanie Foster and Gina Locklar combined for two sacks, contributing to a Pasquerilla East defense which limited Walsh to only one first down in the first half. 
"The team seemed to be relaxed which allowed us to remain focused on executing the plays," Healy said. 
The Pyros came out strong in the second half, exhibiting both poise and intensity. 
This time beginning at their own five yard line, Plummer launched a 20-yard pass to Stacy Leicht who received the ball and out ran the opposing defenders to score Pasquerilla East's second touchdown. The score gave the Pyros a 13-0 advantage, and the defense ensured that the lead would last the remainder of the game. 
"Our [offensive! line did a great job at giving the quarter­back enough time to pass," said Healy. "And the defense put a lot of pressure on the other team." 
The victory did not come 
without its share on close moments, especially in the sec­ond half when the Wild Women threatened on almost every drive. 
On the first possession in the second half quarterback Carolyn Parnell passed to Amy Krayer for a 30-yard gain. 

Again, Walsh went to the air, with Parnell connecting with Kelly Perry to bring the ball within the ten yard line. However. Robin Horning came through with a crucial blocked pass preserving the Pyros lead. 
On the ensuing possession Walsh eompleted a 20-yard pass to Krayer which brought the offense within striking dis­tance of the endzone. This time 
Irish show focus in preseason win 
Special to the Observer 
The University of Notre Dame men's basketball team finished its preseason sched­ule last night with a 105-93 victory over Team Fokus at the Joyce Center. 
After taking a quick lead early on, the Irish stalled and fell behind by as many as nine points in the first half. A late rally tied the game at 37 -all with three minutes remaining in the half, but three straight three pointers by Team Fokus guard Fred Coffield gave Team Fokus a 47-41 lead going into the locker room. 
In the second half. the visi­tors used a five-point run in an attempt to pull away for good, but the home team answered with an eight point swing of their own, ending with a drive from freshman Harold Swanagan. The Irish took the lead for good off of a basket by freshman Hans Rasmussen to make it 64-62 with 12:16 remaining in the second half. 
"We started out kind of slow," junior guard Jimmy Dillon recalled "and we were pretty sluggish as we got out of the locker room. But when we came out of there, we picked up the tempo a bit, and made them do a few things they didn't do in the first half." 
The Irish had five players in double-digits on the evening, led by guard Antoni Wyche's 25-point effort. Freshman David Graves had 16 points, including 4-4 from three point range. Center Phil Hickey had the only double-double for 
Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. 
Class starts tonight and on 11/16 Hurry and sign up today! 
1-800-KAP-TEST www.kaplan.com 


"MCAT Is a registered trademark of the Association of Amencan Medical Colleges. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 
both teams with 10 points and 10 rebounds, while Dillon and Martin Ingelsby each had 10 points to round out the scor­ing. 
Team Fokus also had five players in double-digits, led by forward Justice Thigpen's 16­point effort. Overall, the visi­tors went 17-of-38 from the field and a perfect 8-for-8 from the charity stripe. 
With their preseason com­plete, the Irish begin their reg­ular season on Nov. 13 when Miami (OH) comes to the Joyce Center. 
is was Locklar who stepped up for Pasquerilla East, deflecting two consecutive passes and thwarting a Walsh rally. 
Molly O'Rourke further fanned the flames of the defen­sive fire with her enthusiastic on-field celebration after a sack. 
Not only did she take down the quarterback, but her unbridled energy also pro­pelled her onto the ground, pumping up the crowd and shifting the momentum in favor of Pasquerilla East. 
To prove the previous two stops were not a fluke, the Pyros staved off a third Walsh drive, this one the concluding drive. After a ten yard pass to Perry, the Wild Women found themselves on the goaline with one last chance to score. On third down Locklar continund hnr stellar defensive exhibition with a third block!ld pass. Foster saeked Parnnll on the following play, a fitting end to a defensive display. 
"I think we played a fairly even game." said Krayer. "Our problem was that we had too many missed opportunities. We were able to move the ball downfield, but we kept getting caught in the 'rnd zone'." 

Pasquerilla East will face Breen Philips in the Battle at thn Stadium, a seemingly pnrn­nial evnnt for the Pyros. 
This will be the third time in the last four years that they have reached the champi­onship game. 
"Since we have a strong core returning from last year, thn team knows what to expect," Healy said. "There definately is excitement, but without all the nervousness that might have been there the first time." 
Recycle The Observer 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers of... 
r---,r---,r---,r---,r---,
I 10%off II $5 off I I $60 II $30 1 1 $70 1 I A veda I I Cut and I I Color, Cut & I I Manicure I I Hilites & Cut I I Makeup I I Style I I Style I I & I I & Style I L ---.J L---.J L0.!!: ~o~~':..l L _:e~u:_ .J L ___ .J 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
Stylist: This offa NOT ralid with Cindy. 

Please use the Special Savings invitation and get to know us. You'll be pleased with the quality and service we provide. and we will do our best to merit your confidence and patronage. We hope to .'iee you soon. 
No other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair condition is unsuitable. Expires 11/30/98. 1357 N. Ironwood Drive •South Bend, IN 46615 •Tel. 219-289-5080 

A 
SPECIAL INVITATION 
~ -k 
~\t~xa ~V.'-0ifl 

The Ford Motor Company 

Presents 

FORD DAY 
at the University ofNotre Dame 
Tuesday, November 10, 1998 
Featuring Keynote Speaker 
JOHN KAPLAN 

Executive Vice President, Ford Motor Land Services Corporation 
JORDAN AUDITORIUM 
College ofBusiness Administration 
I: I5  -I:45pm  Ford Overview by John Kaplan  
I :45  -2: I5pm  Questions & Answers  
2:30p.m.  Ford Representatives will be available  
for informational discussions  

All students encouraged to attend! 

Monda~November9, I99_8_____________________________~T~h~e~O~b=s=er~v=er~·~S~P~()~R=T~S~--------------------------------------~p_a~g_e__l7 

The Observer/Liz Lang 
Keenan and Zahm traded interceptions throughout their semi-final interhall match-up yesterday. 
Keenan continues undefeated streak 
By WES JACOBS However, much to the cha­Sports Writer grin of the rowdy Zahm side­line, his next pass was picked 
When the Zahm and Keenan off by a Keenan defender: ono football teams took the field on of four Keenan interceptions on Sunday, each felt that they the day. were the better team. Keenan later added the final 
When the final whistle blew, score when Venvertloh rolled however, it appeared clear out and ran the ball into the which team was superior on endzone as time expired in the this day. With a dominating fourth quarter. defense and an offensive line "We knew that they were that created enough holes to going to come out throwing, so allow the offense to put points we made some adjustments in on the board, the Knights of practice this week," said Keenan proved their prowess, Keenan captain Dong Min. and advanced to the Notre Obviously, those adjustments Dame Stadium where they will proved to be very bmwlieial to play in the interhall champi­the Knights. onship. Freshman Kevin Carney, a 
In achieving the final 12-0 froshman dofensive back, was score, both teams traded one player who really stepped turnovers throughout the up his play for this semifinal game's early stages. By the end game. lin finished with one of the first half, the score was interception, and numnrous key still knotted at zero. Zahm's tackll~s. efforts of using their bend but "lie was really big for us not break dr,fense had worked today," Min said. up to this point. Sooner or Next up for Kc!HHtn arc the later, though, the defense was Sorin Otters -a rematch of bound to break. last year's r.hampionship game. 
The Keenan running attack "Hight now Wf~ have a lot of continued to pound away at the guys who are banged up, so we Zahm line, and by the end of just hope that our defense can the third quarter, they had keep them in chock," said Min. their first score, received on a As for Zahm, they will have to long pass from quarterback wait for noxt year. "There were Craig Venvertloh to Nelson a lot of bright spots this season. Hivera to go up by a score of 6-Our young guys will be ready to 
0. contribute next year," said a At this point, it was nearing dejected eo-quarterback Matt 
·desperation time for Zahm. The Bohnenkamp following the Habid Bats had yet to record a game. "Wo'll try to keep first down, and were having a improving." hard time getting any move­The time is now, however, for 
•
ment on offense. Quarterback Keenan and Sorin. Fans will Steve Lickus carne out gunning lind out in two weeks whether on the next drive, and complet­Keenan will repeat as champs, ed his first pass to Mike Garco, or whether a new interhall giving the Bats their first first football champion will be down. crowned. 
Breen-Phillips smokes Farley, 18-7 
By TED FOX 
Sports Writer 
No. S Farlny Hall came into Sunday's Women's lnl!~rhall semifi­nal game against No. 4-seeded Bri'IH1 Phillips ~~njoying a throe ganw winning streak and an upset of nurn)H~r-one S!Hld!'d f'asqunrilla West last wonk in tlw first round of' tlw playoffs. 
llowPvnr, aflPr gHting out to a strong start, tlw team's momentum slowed and Bronn Phillips won the hatt!P. at Stepan West 18-7, advancing it to thP Nov. 21 champi­onship gamP. 
l:arley strurk first with its potent passing attack as rn~shman wide 
rPn~ivnr Both McKay haulml in a touchdown on tlw team's opening drive. This made for McKay's sec­ond postseason touchdown, as she tallied tlw lorw points in Parh~y·s h­0 victory last week. 
Unfortunately for tlw upstart No. S u~am, McKay's second strike would lw th1~ t1~am 's last points of tlH~ season. 
Afl1~r an interruption by Farlny junior linebacker Alexsis Gaul halt­ed Breen Philips' opening series, the t1~am "just focused" in the words of senior quarterback cap­tain .Jenny Choi and changed the direction of the game. Protected by an offensive linn that Choi d1~scrilwd as "awesome," the cap­tain dismantled the defense by throwing touchdown passes to thn~e different receivers. Senior tight end Meghan Specks caught the first. setting the stag1~ for two frnshmnn. tight end Erin West and wide receiver Gina Montenaro, to score numbers two and three, respnctively. 
Complemnnting the Breen Phillips passing attack was a solid running gamn lnd by sophomore running back Franccsca Delayo, who highlighted the ground attack with a 40-yard run. 
Despite the loss, Farley coach Kevin McClean said he couldn't "say enough about the [Farley] girls," a team that rebounded from an 0-3-1 start to make the playoffs as the lowest seeded and knock off the number one. 
McClean added that his team knew all along that it was "a lot better than the O-:{ start." While he felt the defense was always the squad's strength, the offense caught up to it by the end of the year. This, coupled with the confi­dence McClean spoke of, fueled the team's cinderella run into the league smnifinals. 
Breen Phillips now prepares for the finale in the Stadium, having gotten this far for the first time since senior Choi started playing four years ago. She said the team just needs to "do what we've been doing so far" to have success come Nov. 21. 
Lost in Farley's surprise run to the quarterfinal has been the fact that Breen Phillips wasn't expected to make it this far, either. Choi described her coaches as "shocked" that the No. 4 team is going to the final. Even though it seemed unlikely, Breen Phillips is not letting that stand in their way. In the words of the senior quarter­back ~.rep,aring to ,.Play her last game: We re ready. 
Otters put Dawgs to sleep, 21-7 
By NOAH AMSTADT.ER Spores Writer 
If Stepan field yesterday were a ver· eranarian's office, one could say that the Dawgs were put to sleep. In a rather one-sided matchup of the second· and third-ranked teams iri the interhall tournament this year, the Sorin Otters had little difficulty defeating the Alumni Dawgs 21-7. 
Sorin set the tone for the game early. After Alumni received the kickoff, they began their 
charge from their ' II
B i 

own :30-yard line. . as ca y, we p aye very the Otters to punt, 
On the first play well all season. Today we 'Dawgs coach Mike Aubrey
they attempted a just came out against a team
lateral pass, decided that he which was fum" that was better prepared than had seen enough bled. Sorin cap-us.' and decided to tain Greg Belden come out and play recovered the ball quarterback him­and ran it into the ALUMNI CAPTAIN JASON MALARTSIK self. He prompltly punt as the score remained 14-0 at the half. 
Sorin was able to continue their domi­nation in the third quarter as Pete Beldon continued to lead the team upfield. Running backs Dave Fiorini and Morris carried Sorin to the 15. Pete Belden then found West in the left cor­ner of the end zone for the team's t1nal touchdown of the game. West then kicked his third extra point, his ninth point of the day. 
Alumni finally seemed to wake up in 
the fourth quar­
ter. After forcing
I d 

endzone for the first score. Andy West put the pigskin through the uprights as the Otters took an early lead. 
The Sorin defense. continued to play well through the first quarter. With the clock running out, they forced another fumble on a nearly identical play. As the second quarter began, Sorin began run­ning the ball down the field. Quarterback Pete Belden led the team to the Alumni 20-yard.Une· before complet-· ing a. sh~tp pa$s to Ryan Shoshone in the endzone; West then stepped back to kick the extra point. 
The Otter defense forced Alumni to found nornHtl 

quarterback Alex Gese open for a 20 yard pass. After throwing an incomplete pass, he again found Gese, this time in the end zone, for the team's only score. Paul Moore kicked the extra point. After forcing Sorin to punt again, Alumni attempted a final drive with the seconds winding down. Moore's long field goal attempt fell short as the clock ran out. 
Despite the loss, Alumni captain Jason Malartsik was happy with the team's season. "Basically, we played very well all season. Today we just came out against a team that was better prepared than us," he said. 
~------­

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, November 9, 1998 
• WOMEN'S SOCCER 
-l 

Women repeat as Big East champions 
11 

Maniken scores only I 
goal in championship 
match-up 
By BRIAN KESSLER the second straight year, as Assistant Sports Editor she scored the game's only goal at the 80:59 mark. 
Storrs, Conn. "I think I got a little bit Whatever can go wrong, lucky," Makinen said. "They will go wrong. were trying to clear the ball 
This adage basically after the corner kick and I got summed up the last two my foot in front of the ball Connecticut-Notre Dame con­and then hit it as hard as I tests for the Irish. could." 
But not this time. "I tried to clear it, but it 
After being plagued by came off my foot the wrong countless shots that hit the way." Connecticut sophomore post and completely dominat­Lauren Molinaro said. "Anne ing all the statistic categories was open and she finished it. but not coming away with the She's a great player." victory, second-seeded Notre The first half was a series of Dame finally found a way to momentum swings. The Irish beat the Huskies, as they got off to a slow start and had knocked off top-seeded and trouble controlling the ball. regular season champion "One of the things that hap­Uconn in pened in the first half was yester-
that our d a y ' s f~rwards 
d1d final at do a Morrone good job of holding the ball," Stadium. Petrucelli said. "Every time 
T h e we played the ball to our fifth­front players their defenders ranked won it. We put Streiffer up Irish proved that they still are there for a little while, the team to beat in the Big because she's kind of crafty East, as they wrapped up and a little different, than 
BigEast ,­FinaIS not 
their fourth consecutive Big having Erikson up there 
East Tournament title with a who's a bigger, stronger play­
• 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

1-0 win over third-ranked er. So that's basically what 
The Irish knocked off the Huskies 1-0 to win their fourth consecutive Big East tournament. 
Connecticut. we talked about at halftime ­
"I thought it was a great doing a better job up front." coming out of the back." the entire contest. 18-14 and held an 8-4 advan­soccer game," head coach In the second half, the Notre Dame's pressure also "We talked a little bit about tage in corn kicks. Chris Petrucelli said. "Both intensity picked up on both disrupted the Huskies' keeping her [Monroe! from First-team all-Big East teams had chances; both sides. offense. cutting back," Petrucelli said. selection and goalkeeper of teams played well. I really "They did a good job of "We tried to put a little "It's her most dangerous the year LaKeysia Beene was thought this was a classic front pressing us and they more pressure on their move and she beat us in the solid in goal for the Irish, as matchup." were also looking to take sweeper and pull our front first game, by cutting the ball she made six saves to earn 
All four of Notre Dame's Big away the ball we play from players a little more central, back and scoring a goal and her second shutout of the East championships have one side of the field to the leaving the far player open," even early in the game she tournament and the 12th of ;: come at the Huskies' expense. other," Petrucelli said. "They Petrucelli said. "They got out cut a few balls back and the season. ,, 
"We're happy we came out were really trying to snipe a lot by playing the ball back caused some problems for us. Connecticut goalkeeper 
i:

ahead, but I almost kind of that if we played it over the to Jenn [Tietjen] and she I think that took away one of Anne-Elisabeth Erskerud 
r

feel for Connecticut a little top. I thought they did a real knocked it over the top, so we her weapons." recorded nine saves on the l: bit." Petrucelli said. "We've good job pressuring and Mary tried to squeeze it a little bit Uconn, however, couldn't afternoon. The victory rear­! 
l;

been on the other end of that Frances is part of that, but more and not give htem the take away Notre Dame's most firms Notre dame's continued 
p

and I don't know if they nec­then they ran a couple differ­opportunity to do that." dangerous weapon. dominance in the conference 
n 
essarily deserved to Jose. It ent people in up front. Our The Irish held Big East Makinen's goal was all the and avenges last year's semi­i' 
was great game." game is determined a lot by rookie of the year Mary Irish would need, as they did final loss to Uconn. II 
i!

Sophomore Anne Makinen how we come out of the back Frances Monroe, who led the a good job of playing keep As for now, Notre Dame was named the tournament's and I thought they did a pret­Huskies in goals, assists, and away in the corners. seems to have gotten things II most outstanding player for ty good job of keeping us from points, without a shot through Notre Dame outshot Uconn right. Fll 
n I! 
H 
I!

Irish leave Orangewomen seeing red I! 
By BRIAN KESSLER fectly from the left side to Jenny game average, but were patient and right now than we were early," II.
I
Assistant Sports Editor Heft, whose header deflected off the still very effective up front, as they Petrucelli said. "We're taking advan­crossbar. Erikson was there for the found the net two more times in the tage of our chances a lot more and Storrs, Conn. follow and the Irish quickly found second half. part of that is because we're moving II.I The second-seeded Notre Dame's themselves ahead, 1-0. "We may not have had as many a lot better up front. The other thing II !!women's soccer team made it back Notre Dame then scored two goals shots, but we had more quality is that Monica and Meotis are scor­
!!

to the Big East championship title in a two-minute span to break the shots, so we've done better with that ing goals right now." 
i1i!

game for the fourth straight year game wide open. and putting away goals," Boxx said. Big East goalkeeper of the year 
with a 5-1 semifinal victory over Monica LaKeysia Beene made just one save I. 
I!

Syracuse on FPiday, just five days Gerardo, the for the Irish, but was denied the 
II

after the Irish shutout the team's all-time ,. shutout. Orangewomen 7-0 at Alumni Field. leading scorer, / ' With the game out of reach, II II"I don't think [it was any different put a nifty Anne Makinen put the Irish ahead Syracuse scored its lone goal of the 
H
this time around]," senior captain move on the 4-0 when she unleashed a rocket game at the 86:14 mark, when ii 
!I

Shannon Boxx said. "We were more Syracuse over the Syracuse wall and into the Jennifer Mena scored from six yards worried about ourselves and how we defender and upper right portion of the net on a out. h!I played. I think we came out pretty blasted the ball 22-yard indirect kick. "We played well. We did what we li,, well." into the lower left corner of the net Kelly Lindsey closed out the scor­had to do," Petrucelli said_ "I think it 
il

Five Irish players found the net, as at 34:38. Boxx then volleyed in a ing for the Irish when she headed in was important for us to play well I! a slow start turned into a 3-0 half­corner kick from Big East defensive her second goal of the season off a early and score early and then give !i 
L 

time lead. Sophomore Meotis player of the year Jen Grubb. header from Makinen. ourselves a chance to rest some 
li

Erikson put Notre Dame on the "I think I definitely stepped it up Notre Dame proved again why it players and I think we did that." 
!l

board at the 22:49 mark with a today," Boxx said. "''m just trying to leads the nation in goals per game. In the other semifinal game, Jena header from three yards out. get better day by day and I thought I The Irish offense controlled the ball Carabino scored two goals in a Second-team all-Big East selection played well today." and made the most of their scoring three-minute span to lead top-seed­Jenny Streiffer crossed the ball per-The Irish only had 12 shots in the opportunities. ed Connecticut over Boston College, ,. 
contest, 16 below their 28 shot per "We're definitely more dangerous 2-0. . 
!!:::==================================-=:::.--=::::;_--:;:_=-.=~=--=-===-··-=-=-=-'J 
Monday, November 9, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
DAN SULLJV AN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
FOXTROT 
.t.cTUALLY, IT DoESN'T 
HAVE 
BATTERIES. 
I 
DILBERT 

CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Carl Sagan, Lou Ferrigno, Hedy 
Lamarr, Spiro Agnew 
Happy Birthday: Let the good times roll. This can be a terrific year if you're willing to put yourself on the line. Don't hesitate to speak your mind or make the changes necessary to fulfill your needs. You must make yourself happy before you can possi­bly make those around you ft'CI good. It's time to perk up and get positive. If you can master positive thought, you can have what you desire. Your numbers: 4, 13, 22, 31, 40, 49 
ARIES (March 21·Aprill9): Don't make decisions until later in the day. Investments will be profitable.

BILL AMEND 
Get involved in educational pursuits and travel that will promote new 
relationships. 00 TAURUS \April 20-May 20): Clear 

WI-IAT ABOUT SEE THESE 10 
ON lHE BVILT·IN up overdue correspondence. Don't 
HIGHWAY?.' CIGARETTE 
get intimate witli colleagues or involved in gossip at work. Pleasure trips will cost more than anticipated. 

WHAT ABouT LIGHTER 
IN AN ADAPTERS? 
Don't jump to conclusions. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-)une 20): Make plans to enjoy the company of close 

EMERGENCY?.' 
\ 
friends or relatives. II' s time to play catch-up with those you don't get to spend enough time with. You'll learn a lot if you listen and observe. 000 
CANCER (june 21-)uly 22): You may have to lighten your belt finan· cially, but that doesn't mean that you can't have a good time. Consider community events that don't cost an arm and a leg. You may meet some­one interesting. 000 
LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Words of love will be to your advantage and

SCOTT ADAMS 
will bring terrific results. Plan a quiet evening for two and you won't be let 
.; down. Investments will be profitable. 000

I OON'T
= 
HuH? APPARENTL'Y, THE'Y COULDN'T HoLD A / CHARGE LoNG ENoU&H, 
So nlE Mo8't'TEL·2ooo uSES A DIREcT CoNNEcTioN To HoVSEHoLO CuRRENT. 
n 
CAlBERT: H.R. DIRECTOR E 
~~====================~--i~I o.. 
I WORK f-IARD, BUT ~ ALL 1 GET ARE TINY ~ 
~AI5'E~. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Droops 5 Dutch engineering feat 9 Capital on the Seine 14 Prefix with port 
or pad 15 Spew 16 Separately 17 Historic periods 18 New Year's Eve 
figure 
20 Machine for removing cloth waste 
22 Chinese: Prefix 23 Forty winks 24 Make a-­
case of 26 Not windy 28 Of kings and 
queens 

IF WE GAV( YOU 'E\/ER.YTH I NG YOU WA.NTEO, THEN 
'<OU WOULO 1-\fl..VE 
NOTHING TO 1-\0HVATE 
YOU. 
62 1938 movie with Ronald Reagan 
65 CBer's end-of-message word 
66 Newswoman Shriver 67 St. Patrick's land 68 --qua non 69 Proust hero 70 Femur-tibia go-between 71 Villad'-­
DOWN 

1 Continental -­2 Cliff dwelling 3 Thyroid, e.g. 4 1946 Rosalind 
Russell role 5 Bear part of, as expenses &"--Yankee 
Doodle dandy" 7 Model sets B Moral precept 9 Conditional 
release 33 June 6, 1944 
.i 
u 
; 
< 
Ji
•
• 
:; . 
u. 
·;: "! 
:::t 
~ 
g 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Keep 
THI\T''5WANT iO BE 

WHY I

MOTIVATED. 
ENJ"OY DOING IT! 

your thoughts to yourst•lf. Visit friends wh<l have not b<'<'n ft•eling well. Take care of pending legal mat· ters. Confrontations with co~workers or employers will not pay off. 0000 
LIBRA (Sepl. 23-0ct. 22): Your day will improve by noon. Don't rely on people who have made you promises. Put your time and l'tll'rgy into organizational functions th.1t will help you meet prestigious individu­als.OO 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Take a reserved approach when dealing with others. Situations will get blown oul of proportion. Put your time and energy into work-related projects whcrt.' you know you will make somt• headway. 00000 
SAGI"ITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dcc. 21): You need time to clear your hc.lli. Traveling and srcnding time with close friends wil be important. You can catch up on correspondence if you mix business with pleasure. 000 
CAI'RICORN (Dec. 22-)an. 19): Home-improvement projects will run smoothly today. Gel till' whole family to pitch in and make it an enjoyable event. Enlist the help of friends who drop in and get the job done quickly. 000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You're in the mood for Jove and the opportunities are plentiful. Go out with friends if you wish to meet your potential new mate. Business partnL'r­ships will be conducive to prosperity. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Romantic opportunitias will develop through work-related social events. Drastic changes regarding your place of employment may not be to your liking. Acceptance will be important. 00000 
·students, faculty and staff can fill out ........--'"".....,'""'" or "briefs" at the Haggar front desk .r8 a.trJ,. to 4:15 p.m.. Please complete 
. ·to Publication. ~tlQy's .annual visit to the Faculty Senate 
Ulhe Monday, Nov. 9 at 8 p.m. in the audi­'ln~ftlui Center for Continuing Education. All are o,ttl.e.·to•.~ttend. · Nano~lcriQ$titute for European Studies and the 
~~pt ofGerman and Russian present Ernestine f7 ofMontcla.ir State University lecturing on: Language of Silence: West German Literature e Holocaust," at 2 p.m. on Monday, Nov. 9 in 
nner. 

AI)$;,...-. Traditionally underrepresented groups of en and sophomores are invited to ll~arn about er Internship opportunities Monday, Nov. 9 at 
CS\:Jl.t 7:30p.m. 

.........·. ''Hiitla Alpha, The College Democrat and the College ,J'J~Jpublican clubs will hold a round table discussion mth Bill Bradley entitled "1998 Election Analysis: A ·Roundtl\hl~ Discussion with Senator Bill Bradley." It !•Willhe heldon Nov. 9, in the Hesburgh Library Lounge 
fr~:n:l1.11:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. The meeting will be format­te~l as.aninformed discussion of election results. All who are interested are invited. 
Wanted: Reporters 
53 Ed Sullivan 57 Sketch guest of 9/9/56 
58 "Cannery Row" 54 Worn-out 
character 

and photographers.
55 Babe Ruth's 60 "--go bragh!"
number 63 Can material 
56 Some military defenses: Abbr. 64 Exist 
Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 
staff.
1-900-420-5656 (75rt per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 
·­
-
It· 
..
S 
.. 
30 Cried like a Siamese 34 "Philadelphia" star Tom 37 Kemo ---(the 
Lone Ranger) 39 Little hopper 40 Skin soother 41 Flower feature 42 Dance at a 
Jewish wedding 43 "Phooey!" 44Angers 45Abdomen 46--d'Arc 48 Hardship 50 Play area 52 Most extended 56 Put 2 and 2 
together 59 Gum or plum. e.g. 61 Brewer Coors 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
4;~~ Notre Dame Football Ticket Exchange 
,...~' ~"V Are you in need of a General Admission ticket for the LSU game? Go
~/ ~ . ~ ~q ~ to the Joyce Ticket Office on November 1 0 through 12 to exchange ~A your LSU student ticket from 8:30 to 5:00. There are only three \. hundred tickets available so get there early! NO students must pay \ $16.50 and St. Mary's and Holy Cross students must pay $11.00 to 
\ exchange them. You must come yourself with your signed ticket hooklet and your student I D. ,~UTTIN(; STUDENTS FIRST! 
10 Prone 11 Parade spoiler 12 "--Ia Douce" 13 Word repeated 
by a drill 
sergeant 19 Nail polish 21 Greek Cupid 25 Surgical beam 27 Nursery name 29 Slangy goodbye 
31 Winter fabric 32 --ofSuffolk 
34 Pilgrimage to Mecca 35 Wings: Lat. 36 Nick's "Thin Man" wife 38 Pesta herb 41 Coyote State's .capital 45007 47 Lane of "The Birdcage" 49 Trimmed beard 51 Actress Bo 



~ ~~~----------------~-­
..---~---------·-------------------­
• Four teams earned 

• Women's soccer 
the right to play in 

earns their fourth con­
.... 
Notre Dame Stadium 
secutive Big East 
this weekend. 
crown.

PORTS 
pp.J6-17 
p.l8 

O THE 



• HOCKEY 
leers unbeaten on trip to the East Coast 
By TED BASSANI Sporrs Writer 
The Notre Dame hockey team faced its toughest challenge to date over the weekend in back­to-hack road games against top-ranked Boston College and Northeastern. 
The Irish established them­selves as a top-five team by -· playing to a hard-fought 5-5 tie with BC on friday and by beat­ing a scrappy Northeastern team 4-3 on Saturday, both in hostile rinks. On Friday night in the Conte Forum. a raucous crowd of 7, 770 was on hand to witness the Irish play what coach Dave Poulin later called "one of the most entertaining college hock­ey games in years" against the Eagles of Boston College. The game was played at a furious pace, one more suited to a Hockey East team like BC than a CCHA team like Notre Dame. "Their forwards were very 
• VOLLEYBAll 
-Netters win two in conference play 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame volleyball team is on the upswing follow­ing key victories this weekend over the Georgetown Hoyas and the Villanova Wildcats. 
The Irish forced a three-way tie at the top of the Big East regular season standings with Georgetown and Connecticut by giving the Hoyas their first loss of the conference schedule. 
The upset sets the Irish up to be among the top two teams in the conference heading into the Big East tournament in two weeks, which would assure them a first-round bye. If the season ends in a tie at the top of the Big East, the regular sea­son conference title will be determined by which team has the highest winning percentage in conference matches. 
"At this point, we just have to take it one match at a time," said head coach Debbie Brown. "We would like to be one of the top two seeds going into the Big 
·11 East tournament, but we still have two tough matches to play." The Irish held off the Hoyas Friday night in a crucial match, winning three games to one by scores of 15-8, 11-15, 15-8, 15­9. Sophomore Christi Girton and senior captain Lindsay Treadwell led the team to the victory, both earning double­doubles. Girton had 17 kills and 12 digs for the Irish, and Treadwell added 10 kills and 15 digs. Junior Mary LeiTers' eight blocks helped put the 
-
uos;erv<lriLI2 Lang 

Sophomore Christi Girton had 17 kills in Notre Dame's win over 
fast skaters, they played a game a lot different than we're used to in the CCHA," said senior defenseman Benoit Cotnoir. 
The Irish were able to match the Eagles' offensive firepower, as they outshot BC 32-28. 
Most importantly, the game against BC served as a test of character for the Irish. Because the Irish came in ranked sev­enth in the nation, their matehup against No.1 BC was well anticipated on the national scene. 
"We expected the game to be physical because of the impor­tance put on it ... The game cer­tainly had a playoff feeL to it." Cotnoir said. 
After Jeff Farkas gave the Eagles the early lead on the power play, the Irish countered with a power-play goal from Ben Simon which tied the game. 
The goal was actually a bit of a fluke, as Simon streaked 
see HOCKEY I page 12 
Georgetown. 

Irish over the top. 
After the Irish pulled ahead two games to one, game four was a tight one. They were down 8-3 before coming from behind to claim the lead 9-8. The Irish never looked back, with Girton and Leffers key fac­tors in the win. 
Notre Dame forced the Hoyas into a high number of errors, with top players Yulia Vturina recording 12 errors and Kiran Gill adding nine. 
Notre Dame continued its winning ways yesterday, beat­ing the Wildcats in three con­secutive games 15-13, 15-5, 15-9. Villanova dropped to 11­15 on the year, while the Irish rose above .500 for the first time in over a month at 12-11 overall, 8-1 in the conference. 
Girton led the attack with a team-high 14 kills on 37 total 
see V-BALL I page 14 

The Observer/John Daily 

Peter Henning and the Fighting Irish hockey team tied top-ranked Boston College 5-5 Friday night. 

• MEN's SOCCER 

Irish unable to weather Red Storm 
By ANTHONY BIANCO .Assistant Spom Editor 

A second,half surge was not enough to help the Irish we<J.ther the Storm Saturday night as coach Mike Berticelli's 

·t:lqriad was unable to comeback from an early 2-0 deficit. The 2-0 lq.s$fn the quarterfinal round of the Big East tqurnameritend,s Notre Dame's season and gives St. John's 
.. Its ticket.·· .. · nference semifinals next weekend. :~Eyen ~p . the end we thought we could turn things 
iil:Q •.~· $ rish cQ 4captain and senior Matt Johnson. .''99. into second half we never thought we would lose 1Jie···game.'1,#I" .. But the efforts and determination never materialized into gQIHS: 
The Red Storm blasted onto the field dominating their seventhwranked opponents from the game's onset. If St. John's didn't already have the upperhand with homefield advantage, an undefeated record against the Irish, a streak of seven-straight appearances in the Big East semifinals and the experience of playing on an Astroturf field, they added an aggressive attack to their arsenal. 
The No. 13 team in the nation dropped the wrecking ball early in the <:ontest, quickly dispelling any hope for an Irish upset. 
"They put us all on our heels," explained sophomore Stephan Maio on the early momentum St. John's built. "We were on their field and on their turf and they took advan­
tage ofi /' .. 
l1;1 ad keeping Notre Dame's offense from finish-shots, it was the Storm's defense that fin­. eoring both of St. John's goals. 
t 17:48 into the game as Robert Wile · · ard Jimmy Buscemi that hit the . d the post on hs way past goal­
.sMNl. 

u.tes later Paul Cusano also took a break .. ..•. ···.· uties to help St. John's on the other half . .·· .. . ..• Cusano let one fly from 27 yards out and miss­ing tlj.~ reai:;hes of. Velho en route to the play that put the 
· 
seeM. SOCCER I page 12 

at Navy, November 14, Cross Country, vs. Bowling Green, 
3:30p.m. at NCAA District IV Meet, November 13, 7 p.m. November 14, TBA 
SPORTS 
ATA 
Cross Country, NCAA First Round game, at Pittsburgh, 

November 14, TBA S. tf at Regional Championship, 
November 14, 1 p.m. 

GLANCE lYC November 14, TBA 




