
• Students reflect on their experiences and 
• Keiko, the killer whale star of 'Free Willy,' began 
Thursday

share unforgettable memories of time spent 
his journey to Iceland, where he will be released in 
studying abroad in past years. 
the near future. 
SEPTEMBER 
Scene • 12 
News·5 
10, 1998 
THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 12 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 


C
orhy's Irish l'uh (ahovc), Turtle Creek apartments (ri~lu), and Finni~an's are among the establishments that have changed their alco­hol policies this year to reduce underage drinking. 
By MICHELLE KRUPA News Editor 
Getting together with friends on a Friday night hardly seems like a crime, but when underage drinking is involved in those plans, students -those over and under 21-are in fact breaking the law. 
More and more students have taken to heading to off-campus establishments and homes to quench their cravings for alcohol, but just because they seem to be out of the eagle's-eye watch of the University administration does not mean that no.one is watching. 
"[The South Bend police department] must ... insist that you abide by the laws and ordinances that are in existence relating to loud parties, underage drink­ing at house parties and local bar estab­lishments, illegal sales of alcohol, gather­ing of large groups in residential areas, public intoxication, disorderly conduct and nuisance house violations," said uni­form division chief Brent Hemmerlein in a letter to all off-campus University stu­dents dated Sept. 1. 
Parties like "kick-offs" and "keggers" are not unfamiliar to the police depart­ment and will not be ignored, aecording to llemmerlein. 
"We hate to be the bad guy, but we won't ignore [gatherings like those listed above]. The University is asking us not to ignore the violations, especially the liquor law violations. There has to be a consequenee for that," he said. "It's not that we want to give anyone an arrest record, but to reinforee the law is our responsibility to the community." 
The University also expeets students to abide by those laws while off campus, aceording to director of Student Affairs Bill Kirk. 
"What we expect from our students is that they follow all state and local laws. The University requires students to abide by those laws, and a student will be held responsible for violating University restrictions, as well as eity and state restrictions, if that should occur. Those sanctions are clearly stated in DuLac," Kirk said. 
Hemmerlein cited taverns that are more lenient in serving underage drinkers and private parties where alco­hol or cups are sold to drinkers under 21 as places which the department is partic­ularly trying to keep in check. 
"When people get kegs and sell cups or charge cover, that's illegal according to excise laws. We also want the bar own­ers and door people to know that we're serious about enforcement," he said. "We met with bars to get them up to speed on underage drinking, and that and the let­ter are statements of what the expecta­
see DRINKING I page 4 

Saint Mary's forms alliance with Ancilla College 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
While thn ink dried on Saint Mary's first formal articulation agrnement, prnsidnnt Marilou Eldrnd personified thn eontract by n~sting hnr pen on a Stapleton I.oung11 tabln and embracing the prnsidnnt of J\ndlla College. 
Thn agn)t)rnnnt signed yester­day afternoon allows qualified fnmaln graduates of J\neilla, a two-year Catholic eo-educational college in Donaldson. Ind., to transfer dirnclly to Saint Mary's with a minimal loss of credits. 
"As mission -based Catholic institutions, both Saint Mary's and J\ndlla have a strong aOinity for the samn types of students," said J\neilla president William Shustowski, .Jr. "There is a natur­al lit for our women students, both in the aeademk arena and in the very fabric of the mission this one is mutually beneficial for the link with Saint Mary's, statemenL'i of both colleges." several reasons," Eldred said according to Shustowski. 
Potential transfer students about the agreement, which was "Ancilla has always tried to must earn their Associate's in the making for about a year. provide the best opportunity for degrees from Aneilla with a mini-"The articulation agreement women, even though we are co-mum 3.0 grade point average. will help students at Ancilla con-ed," he said. "We want to edu-
They will transfer into the centrate on their areas of exper-cate our students and show them Bachelor of Arts programs that they can strive for at Saint Mary's with mini-Saint Mary's; they don't mal general education 'WEWANT TO EDUCATE OUR STUDENTS have to strive for second 
requiremenL'i and prepara-AND SHOW THEM THAT THEY CAN best. If they prove them­tory courses in the major , , selves, Saint Mary's will ama of study left to be ful-STRIVE FOR SAINT MARY S. SAINT MARY S give them the chance to 
filled. If the transfers seek WILL GIVE THEM THE CHANCE TO SUCCEED.' succeed." more specialized degrees, WILLIAM SHUSTOWSKI, JR. Ancilla and its students they may need additional are not the only ones preparatory courses. Pnc:~mENT, ANCJLLA CoLLEGE who will benefit from the 
Those who wish to transfer tise so Saint Mary's can then agreement. Saint Mary's is before earning a degree from build on that foundation. Because already considering the various Ancilla will be evaluated on an of this, students are better ways it will prosper from the individual basis. equipped to plot an educational "win-win" deal, including greater 
J\ndlla is comprised of about career path." enrollment. 500 studenL'i, two-thirds of whom Similarities such as both Eldred said that the College are women. schools' dedication to educating also will prosper due to Ancilla's 
"A strategic alliance such as women attracted Ancilla to form diversified student body. She noted that the agreement pro­vides an important opportunity for students in Indiana to advance to four-year institutions. 
Currently, Saint Mary's and Iloly Cross College are attempt­ing to strengthen their ties by reaching a similar agreement within the year. 
J\neilla will host Saint Mary's representatives at least twice a year and will spread word of the agreement through student­assigned advisors. !\ certain number of transfer studenl'i per year has not yet been estab­lished, but Shustowski said that even two each year would be pleasing. 
"We've had students eome to Saint Mary's before; that's not the issue," Shustowski said. 'This will just make it easier for our students to become Saint Mary's students." 


page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Conquering France 
On a bright Paris morning, our intrepid family set out to conquer the Eiffel Tower, armed with nothing but a potent French vocabulary of three words: jambon (ham). 
fromage (cheese),  
and sandwich (sand- Finn Pressly  
wich).  News Writer  
I had always been  
under the impression  

that the Eiffel Tower was strictly a specta­
tor sport. One would approach the tower, 
admire its height and then go eat some 
ham and cheese sandwiches. It seems, 
though, that the Eiffel Tower experience is 
far more complicated. First, one waits in 
line for a few days. all the while being 
harassed by gypsy entrepreneurs selling 
wind-up birds, laser pointers, postcards 
and possibly cocaine. We had hoped the 
line would lead us, say, to a restaurant, but 
much to our dismay, it led us to the world's 
tallest stairway. 

As we approached the stairs, I noticed a number of ominous warning signs printed in French. Since the signs did not include the words jambon, fromage or sandwich, I decided the signs held little importance to me. Looking back, I imagine the signs prob­ably were meant to dissuade people with morbid fears of heights from climbing the world's tallest lightening rod. 
After paying 14 francs (which is either a hundred American dollars or 15 cents­we never really understood that whole "currency conversion" thing), we began the ascent up the leg of the tower. The rest of my family, energized by their breakfast of ham and cheese sandwiches, bounded ahead of me, leaving me to make my jour­ney alone. I wasn't alone for long, however; I somehow became ensconced in a gaggle of German tourists. It wasn't until I reached the next landing that I realized that two of the women were approximately 14 months pregnant. I was too scared to pass them, though, fearing that any sudden movement might suddenly cause them to give birth to a litter of Volkswagens. 
It had been my goal to try to arrive at the observation deck as quickly as possible, so as to cut down on the time suspended in the open stairway. Instead, there I was, lit­erally tens of feet above the ground, mov­ing upwards at a ridiculously slow rate. The women made it a habit to make fre­quent stops in the middle of the stairway (thereby blocking both lanes of traffic) to rub their stomachs, then rub each others' stomachs and affirm that they were indeed incredibly pregnant. This gave me plenty of time to reflect on the fact that I was climb­ing something built by the same country that brought the world the Le Car. 
After what seemed like weeks, I finally arrived at the observation deck, just in time for a scenic Parisian rainstorm. Apparently it hadn't occurred to the French to build an Eiffel Awning or Eiffel Umbrella, so every­one on the observation deck pretty much turned around and went right back down to the ground, as though it wasn't raining on the ground or something. 
I didn't care. though. I had made it. I had conquered the Eiffel Tower. and it was now time for me to go back down the stairs, eat a celebratory lunch of ham and cheese sandwiches and bid a fond jambon to the Eiffel Tower. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY'S STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Mark DeBoy  
Tom Enright  Production  
Finn Pressly  Derek Betcher  
Sports  Noah Amstadter  
Shannon Ryan  Lab Tech  
Viewpoint  Meg Kroener  
Eduardo Llull  
Scene  
Kristi Klitsch  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxcepr during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, September 10, I 998 

The Observer • INSIDE 

utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

University of Pittsburgh faculty boycotts Nabisco 
PITTSBURGH, Penn. 
In a show of support for communi­ty members and workers who will soon lose their jobs, the Faculty Assembly voted yesterday to boycott Nabisco products. 
"We have an opportunity here not only to send a message to Nabisco and other companies, we also have a way to send a signal to members of the community that Pitt cares," said Mark Ginsburg, who sponsored the resolution. "Here's a way we can make a statement about how workers and families should be treated by cor­porations." 
The Faculty Assembly has no authority to enforce a University-wide boycott. 
The resolution must be approved by Pitt administration. Ginsburg said he hopes to take the measure directly to Chancellor Mark Nordenberg. 
The resolution -which calls for the 
• SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY 
Storm creates havoc on campus 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 
Syracuse University is a disaster area. Literally. Governor Pataki declared nine counties, including Onandaga County, to be in a state of "Disaster Emergency" as a result of last weekend's unexpected storm. "Disaster" may be the best word for it. Trees, power lines, and phone lines are down all over Syracuse and SU. University stu­dent residences were damaged, and most of the city lost it's power. According to WIXT ma.teorologist Dave Eichorn the storm, which originated in Canada, produced 90 mile per hour winds, and moved through the area at between 50 and 60 miles per hour. Most SU students were com­pletely unprepared. Freshman Jen Varon was playing in the rain with friends just after the storm started. She said that she and her friends went to their rooms to get rain gear, but heard the other girls in her building screaming about the storm. "The R.A. made us sit on the floor and put our hands over our heads," Varon said. 
• 0Hl0 UNIVERSITY 
Study finds reading to kids beneficial 
ATHENS, Ohio 
Reading a book every night, a little individualized attention and some good old-fashioned love is the per­fect recipe for helping children develop vocabulary growth, an Ohio University study found. Helen Ezell, assistant professor of hearing and speech, and two grad­uate assistants, Marie Lutz and Jason Marlatt, conduct­ed a study during the 1995-96 school year to measure the effects of adults reading to children on a daily basis. The study was funded by the National Institute on Disability and Hehabilitation Hesearch and involved 12 children, ages 3 to 5, who had language delays. Language delays deal with the child's inability to devel­op their English speaking skills such as syntax, morphol­ogy and vocabulary, Ezell said. The 12 children were divided into two groups. At the end of the study, the chil­dren's knowledge was examined, and the researchers found enhanced vocabulary growth in all of the children, Ezell said. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday  ~  76 45  
Friday  ~85  56  
Saturday  ~'  79 57  
Sunday  ~  75 56  
r~  
;·$)~  76 55  

4,~,~9~8 {) ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 

University, its food service contrac­tors. students and faculty to refrain from buying Nabisco products -gar­nered 32 votes in favor. Citing con­cerns that the Faculty Assembly would become an activist group pur­suing an array of community causes and the fact that he may teach future Nabisco employees in his classes, engineering professor James Cobb was the only member to vote against the proposal. 
Nabisco will close its plant on Penn Avenue in East Liberty by Nov. 20, putting 350 people out of work. The Pittsburgh plant is the company's old­est and smallest operation. 
Despite the wide margin by which the measure passed, some members of the assembly voiced concerns about the boycott's effectiveness. 
"Unless it's a nationwide boycott, I don't think it's going to make a differ­ence," said Ann Sutherland Harris, a professor of art history. "Nabisco makes a lot of awfully popular prod­ucts." 
Mike Gumpert. Nabisco issues coor­dinator for the East End Neighborhood Forum, said communi­ty groups fighting the plant closure hope Pittsburgh will be the first part of a wider-ranging boycott effort. 
"We hope to use Pittsburgh as a springboard to other cities," he said. 
Nabisco is also losing plants in Buena Park, Calif., Houston and Philadelphia, and Gumpert said. 
• lOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Student shot, killed at party 
BATON ROUGE, La. 
A Louisiana State University student was shot and killed early Saturday morning as he was leaving a party. Benjamin Carter, 22, of Baton Houge, was trans­ported to Our Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center and was pronounced dead at 5:12 Saturday morning, said Paul Maranto, captain of the East Baton Rouge Parish Sheriff's Office. Carter, who had previously left the party, returned with his brother and another indi­vidual to retrieve one of the men's alarm clock, Maranto said. Carter was leaving the party for the second time when he was shot, he said. Parish deputies on Sunday arrested Lavar Riley, 17, of 2021 Helm Dr., on charges of second degree murder, Maranto said. Riley, along with a group of young men in their late teens and early twenties, were asked to leave the party at the apart­ment earlier Friday evening because they were causing trouble, he said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF UTAH 
Student reports rape at fraternity 
SALT LAKE CITY, Utah 
An 18-year old woman said she was sexually assaulted 
at the Kappa Sigma fraternity house last Friday night dur­
ing a party held there, according to information released by 
the Salt Lake City Police Department. The man accused of 
the crime denies the accusation. "I didn't rape a woman," 
he told The Daily Utah Chronicle. No charges have been 
filed. Kappa Sigma President Jason Ellis supported the 
accused. ''I'm going to stand behind [him]." he said. ''I'm 
pretty confident it will work itself out in the next few days." 
Ellis was out of town at the time of the party, he said, and 
was therefore unable to report firsthand about what hap­
pened. Kirk Warner, another Kappa Sigma fraternity mem­
ber who was at the party, said there was no drinking and 
that all University of Utah regulations were followed. "We 
had four police officers roaming around," he said. The 
alleged assailant said he has not been contaeted by the 
police department. "I don't know anything about this," he 
said. 

Atlanta  83  57  Dallas  95  73  Miami  90  78  
Baltimore 71  50  Denver  86  56  New York 73  55  
Boise  77  55  Fargo  84  60  Phoenix  100  86  
Chicago  77  48  Indianapolis  76  50  Reno  81  50  
Concord  69  53  Los Angeles 79  66  St. Louis  81  56  


Thursday, September I 0, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
~----­
• ..: runENT SENATE 
Members pass resolution on backpacks in SOH 
By TIM LOGAN Assiswnr Nt·ws Ediror 
Thn Stud(mt S(mate callml on llw I> n p a r t nw n t oI' Food SPrvirPs to allow students to bring harkparks into South Dining llall at tlwir nwnting last night. 
Sinr.n studPnts rnturnnd thrnn WPPks ago, tlw dining hall mon­itors at South Dining llall havn prohihit!'CI tlwm !'rom carrying harkparks into tlw faeility. StudPnb hav1~ lwnn requirnd to IPavn tlwir book hags on sh(dvns or in onn of t.lw 17<1 min-rPturn lockPrs in thn build­ing's nntranr.Pway. Students may still bring tlwir hags into North Dining llall, hownvnr. 
TlwrP havn bonn snvnral 
harkpark t.lwl'ts at South Dining 
llall alrnady this ynar. accord­
ing to BPX ·Baku~. dirnctor ol' 
tlw NotrP Damn Snrurity/l'olien. 
Sncurity was tlw main eone11rn 
of senators in addressing this issue. 
"Hnally what w11're trying to prnvent is thefts," said Kennan senator Matt Mamak. "I think this resolution is basically com­llHJn snnsn." 
Direetor of Food Services Davn l'rnntkowski notnd that thn rule banning book bags from tlw cljning halls has b11en in plaen for many ynars, but has only lwen implomnntod this fall in South bncause of the addition of roin-return loekers. lie also nxplainnd thn motivation behind tlw ruin as primarily coming from concerns about sal'nty. 
"With such large crowds [in thn eal'nterial. backpacks add a w·holn lot of volume in that space," said Prnntkowski narli­nr in tlw day. "We've also had problnms with people tripping ovnr bags I in the dining area.l Thn issue is a saldy issue." 

PEACE CORPS 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, September 17 6:00 p.m. -7:30 p.m. 

(800) 424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov 
Senators pledged to work with the dining hall staff on alternatives to the eurrnnt sys­tem. which may reduce traffic, but noted that there was heavy trallic in North Dining llall last year without any major inci­dnnts. 
"Considering all the conges­tion in North last year, safety isn't that big a problem," said Lewis senator Sophie Fortin. "We all came out safely." 
Prcntkowski also noted that, I!Jr all tlw concern about back­pack security, only two or three of the lockers were in use at any given time. "All we can do is make it available," he said. "We can't force people to use it." 
The resolution was passed by a vot11 of 26-1, and will be taken up by three senators at a meet­ing with dining hall officials on Friday. 
The senate also discussed a resolution calling on the Academic Council to support the protection of sexual orienta­tion in the University's non-dis­crimination clause was tabled until next week so that senators can discuss the issue with stu­dents in their dorms. 
"Something has to be done about this," said Dillon senator Jason Linster. "We're svpposed to bo the premier Catholic uni­versity in the nation, and yet we discriminate Ibased on sexual ori11ntation]." 
ND adds new science major 

At the close of last year, the add weight to the words of thn Faculty Senate passed a similar faculty body. resolution which will soon be "This is going to support the taken up by the Academic Faculty Senate," said Fortin. Council for its review. If the The Student Senate passed a non-discrimination clause is nearly identical resolution supported by the Academic approximately two years ago, Council, which includes high­and this year's bill is expected level administrators, faculty to pass. and student representatives of In an unusually elose deci­the five colleges, it will be sent sion, the senate voted 12-11. to the Board of Trustees. with four abstentions, to post­
The timing of the Student pone the vote on this resolution Senate's motion is intended to to next week. 
and Letters and Science. 
Only a few students have eho­sen the major thus far, but 
The Responsible Man 
A lecture by Harvey C. Mansfield 
./ Used, rare and 
out-of-print books 
Initial cost of $2.0C' 
Nationally -circulated ad 
Success rate of 50% 
Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS Open noon to six 

• Tuesday through Sunday ' 
1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
• (219) 232-8444 , 

~U'E1"'1D''ID'"Y.=ffi?'N"1CIT1ariiDI'd!~ IH2:ob.n;DUf::~~m;,a;:a;Ql~ 

THE FIRST ANNUAL ERIC AND MARY WEFALD UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME PRESS LECTURE 
Political scientist and Machiavelli scholar I larvcy C. Mansfield is the vVilliam 
R. Kt'll<lll,.Jr., l'roll.·ssor ol ( ;overllllH'llt at llarvard l lnivcrsity <llld aitthor oiMachiavelli's Virhteand America's Constitutional Soul. He believes that we all favor responsibility but we have doubts about manliness, and asks in his lecture if there is a special manly responsibility we cannot do without~ 
By LAURA ROMPF "This is the first time nation­News Writer wide that a committee within a college has bnen successful in 
Starting with the class of creating such a major," said 200 I, students in the College of professor Charles Kulpa. "Our Seiencn will have yet another committee wanted to re-evalu­area of study to choose from: ate the science program to an Environmental Scienees make sure it was qualified." major. · Kulpa was the head of the 
program development commit­tee, which consisted of otlwr professors and administrators in the both the Colleges of Arts Kulpa expects their numbers to increase. 
'These numbers will grow as more peopln learn of the major and it devnlops," Kulpa said. "Thn major goes wondnrfully with the study abroad program in Australia, as well as the pro­gram offered at Columbia University in Earth Studies," he added. 
"The new Environnwntal Science major offers a broad number of opportunities. While it is not for students in prn-pro­fnssional programs such as nwdieine or dentistry, it is pm·­fnet for studnnts in neology, biology or evnn law. It is also good as a douhln major for those studAnts in businnss administration and Arts and Letters," Kulpa said. 
Overall. the new major now exists because it was "believed that environmental seience at the University should bn. strengthened for both seiencc majors and thos11 in arts and letters," Kulpa eonduded. 
For more information on the environmental sciences major, contact Charles Kulpa at Kulpa./ @nd. edu, or visit the prorgram 's web site at lzltp:1/www. science. n d. edu.l col­legeugrad.lugraden v.lztrnl. 


Thursday. September 10, 1998 7:30p.m. 
141 DeBartolo Hall 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 10, 1998 

Drinking 
continued from page 4 
tions are and what we will and will not tolerate." 
Bars have begun changing their policies, and those under 21 will have a more difficult time even getting in this year. 

"We are really cracking down this year on IDs," said Finnigan's manager Deana Dickerson. "If a student hands us an lD that is definitely fake, we take them. Right now we have about 200-300 IDs sitting inn_ drawer. We don't turn the student in, but we keep a list of names, so if they try to use the same 10 or the same name,·we know." 
Corby's Irish Pub has also started cracking down. 
"We have always had a police officer at the front and cheek two forms of JD," said bartender Randi Miller. "Since Bridget [McGuire's Filling Station! closed, we upped security a bit." 
The police department also contacted area apartment complex owners regarding their responsibilities to the community where the behav­ior of their residents is con­cerned. 
Campus View Apartments has taken new measures this year to ensure safety on its premises. 
"We hired security for foot­ball weekends. Now, ears have to have parking decals to get into the parking lot," manager Stacy Strasser said. "It cuts down on having intoxicated students here that don't belong here. It also cuts down on the exeessivfl amounts of people at the complex." 
"This weekend was wonder­ful," she continucd. "It really cut down on parties with underage drinking." 
Turtle Creek manager Beth lloffman thinks that students are primarily responsible for their own behavior. 
"We do not provide security to residents. We simply cannot secure people's safety," she said. We do provide residents with information as far as their responsibilities about leasing in our apartment com­munity, but we do leave it up to them as to how to treat their guests." 

Students tend to favor this attitude. 
A student living in a house off campus said that he under­stands the responsibilities of throwing a party where alco­hol and underagers will undoubtedly mix. 
"As far as I see ,it, everybody is going to get to a party, and everybody is going to get a hold of alcohol at one time or another. It's quite a bit of a risk for an off-campus student to have a party -like if a stu­dent gets drunk at our party and goes out and kills some­body, we're partly liable for that," he said. "But really, I think it's the responsibility of people who come to parties to be responsible to bring a des­ignated driver." 
As for selling alcohol, that student is careful in soliciting money from guests at parties. 
"We usually ask for some sort of money, but we're care­ful in the wording. We'll say, 'llere's a cup, take it, and drop a few bucks in the jar,' and they usually will. It's a way to not really charge for the beer." 
Another student living in an apartment expressed similar feelings. 
"As long as we know that our guests, our friends, are home safe, I really don't think it's a problem. If we hadn't known people who lived ofT campus when we were younger, we would have had a really boring time," she said. 
Hemmerlein did note that he doesn't think all underage drinking will be quelled through this effort but hopes that people will be responsi­ble. 
"It's a way of college. We know we're not going to stop that. and we don't want to a! safety of campus, whether stop anyone's fun, but we drinking or not. don't want people putting "Do all the crime prevention themselves at risk by under­things that keep you from age drinking and driving or being a victim. We do want to being on walkways where one keep drinking to a minimum, might get hit. We don't want but we don't want [students] another Mara Fox incident." to be so afraid of us that they he said. don't call us when they need 
The division chief also help." warned that students need to Heather MacKenzie con­stay responsible about person-tributed to this report. 
• 
Notre Dame Football vs. 

• 
Michigan State University •


• 
•
•
•
•
• 

• Bus Trip 
•
•
•
•

• Saturday, September 12 
• •• Bus leaves: 2:00 p.m. Stepan Center
• ••

• (Bus leaves Michigan State Stadium 30 minutes 
•
• 

following the end of the game)
•
•
•
•
• 

Tickets on sale at the LaFortune Info Desk
•
•
•
•
• 

:$20 per bus ticket for round trip bus transportation to MSU •
. ­

• •• • 2 tickets per student ID ••.. 
Brought to you by the Student Activities Office
•
•
•
•
•
• 

Fall Break Seminars October 18-23,1998 Experiential/Service Learning Center for Social Concerns  
APPALACHIA SEMINAH -Service Learning at Lllll' of 15 s1tes ln the Appalachi11n n~gHH1 -One credit Theology Information meeting: Tuesday, September 8, 7:30·8:00 I'M CULTURAL DIVERSITY SEMINAR -Explore the cultural richness of Chicago -Examine issues of diversity and rL•lated concerns -One-credit Theology or Sociology -Cosponsored with t-dulticultural Student Affairs -lnionnation meeting· Tuesday, Sept. 8, 4:15-4:45PM WASHINGTON SEMINAR Violence anrl NorrPiokiiCt' i11 A111ericnn Life Direct contact With political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. Service and political awareness opportunities One-credit Theology or Gove.nment Information meeting: Tuesday, September 8, 7:00-7:30 PM CHILDREN & POVERTY SEMINAR New setnlnar exatninll\g key children's concerns Focus on direct serviL"l.' and poliL"y in1t1.1tives Site: Boston or Nt!l\' Y"rk Information meetmgs Sept. 2"d, 4:15 I'M & Sept. B1h, 6:30 PM  
Applications Available Now .11 tlw CSC ti!--!11 C t N T [ II ' 0 I!  

Applications Dul.': Thms., Sri'L Ill, 1~'>.8 ~~L 
CONCERNS 


Head for the Hills! 
•Offers 
service work through various sites in Appalachia October 17-23, 1998 

•Is 
a one credit Theology course 

•Involves 
orientation & follow-up classes 

•Past 
participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as site coordinators 

•Presents 
opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 


Information Session 

Tuesday September 8, 1998 
7:30-8:00 PM 
Center for Social Concerns 
Applications Available at the Center for Social Concerns Due date: Thursday, September I0, 1998 $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accepted) 
Further Information 

Tom Kilroy, Student Co-chair, 271-190 I 
Sarah Kolasa, Student Co-chair, 4-2892 
Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 1-5293 
~ -~-~~---~ ---~~-----­

Thursday, Seprcmher 9, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• -O!LD 1EWS BRIEFS 
Mexican floods worsen 
TAI'ACIIULA 
Mnxiran troops, do<"lors and resew~ work­ers strugglnd ynstt•rday to reach scorns of southPrn towns swamped by floods, and !wavy rains pnltl'd somn areas !'or llw sev­Pnth straight day. At least :{2 pnopln have hnnn rt•portPd killml and dozens mor11 WIWI1 missing in flooding across the country. Thn l'ar.ilk coastal zones of the southern stat11 of Chiapas have bt11•n tlw most devastatml. "If tlw rivnr ki'I'JlS rising, it's going to rnaeh thn cPntnr of town," Marco Antonio Santiso told Assoriatnd l'rPss T11lnvision. lin lives in lluixlla. a town 20 milns west of Tapachula on thl' l'arilir 1:oast. Stat11 oflidals said the dt•ath toll rould rise. 
Embassy warns U.S. of attack 
Bl\IIWT 
Tlw U.S. 1-:mhassy in Lebanon warned AmPrir.ans ynstPrday to PX11rdsn "extrnnw raution" aftl'r it rPcPivnd threats that tlw rompound may Ill' attacked. Embassy spokPswoman Maha llamdan said the Pmbassy has lH'I'n thrnatnnml with an attack similar to onPs that destroyed U.S. embassies in KPnya and Tanzania on Aug. 7 and killed 2!iX pPopiP. No thrnats were mado against Anwrirans or U.S. companios in Lobanon and no sperilic information was availablo on thn thrnats against thn embassy compound, tlw spohswoman said. But "U.S. subjects may Ill' in dang11r and tlwr11fore the embassy urgns its citizPns to exnrcis11 nxtromn cau­tion," shl' said. llamdan said st11ppnd-up SPrurity around tlw U.S. Embassy in Beirut was part of routirw pn~r.autionary miHtsurns takPn around tlw world in the wake of the bombings in Africa. Security around the Pmhassy, loratPd in tho hilltop Beirut suburb ol' Aukar. is gPnl'rally tight. 
Quake hits southern Italy 
HOME 
An ParthquakP rattiPd tlw mountain towns ol' southPrn llaly on ynstPrday, killing orw pPrson. injuring a dozPn and shaking build­ings t.o 1111' point or collapse. Panicked 1'!1Si­dPnts llnd into thn strnnts in towns dose to Lh1• quak1•'s Ppir11ntl'r, 210 milns southeast of Honw. Italy's National Institute of Snisrnology put tlw preliminary magnitudn at !i.5; thn 
U.S. (;pologil:al Survey in Colorado said it was !i.2. Th11 quakl' hit at midday, striking hardPst lwtw11nn tiH• towns of Castelluccio lnfnrion• and Laino Bin-go. where the regions of Calabria and Basilicata meet. A 24-year­old Italian tri11d to nmch safety by parking his car and ll1wing on foot. but was killed by rocks tumbling loose from a cliff. A man in his 70s died of a !wart attack blamed on the quakl'. 
Market Watch: 9/9 

Dow 
AMEX: 

613.44}ONES -11.29 Nasdaq: 
1624.55 -36.31 NYSE: 500.57 -8.02 S&P 500: 1006.20 

7865 02 
Composite-17.26 Volume: -155.76 814,600,000 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 

nn~t~l'4l::ll:t  llri:~IH  'b1 I II ~:SI,I  21 I Ull!SIII·  l'liU"t  
llt•ll  lll·.u.  +'1.4tNio  +5.1K75  59.9.i75  
llllt•l  INTl:  +4.67%  +3.6.563  Hl.906J  
<ouu•ntr,, <:l~w  CCM( c~co  • .)(),(){}1Hr +h.021Ko  ·b.U9.:11i +S..HSO  6.()9:JH 94.6250  
Tr.lvt•lt•n  THV  +H.OO%  +3.1250  42.1H75  
Mkwmll  MSFI  +5.5.\'Ko  +5.34.\8  101.%88  
~l'llR  SPY  +S ..iJIJo!,  +5.251Kl  lo:i,(K)()()  
Worltltnm  W<"OM  +5.60%  +2.5625  4fUI25  
~t~!t~~olllholllolll  l.l'<l CM!t  +H.42'.Ho +.l.Ht:J'Mo  +2.5(){Kl +1.7500  :12.1K75 47.1250  

• OREGON 
Killer whale ready for Atlantic release 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
NEWPOHT, Ore. 
Keiko the killer whalo, who leapod over a harbor breakwall to the sea in the "Free Willy" movie, look a real­life step toward freedom Wednesday when he was hoisted from his aquari­um tank to be airlifted to a bay pen in Ic11land. 
On a signal from a handler, the 9,050-pound, droopy finned orca swam into a nearby holding tank and was slowly lifted with a nylon sling into a special transport tank on the back of a truck. lie made chirping noises during the move. 
Hundreds of children and adults waved goodbye, some carrying "We Love You Keiko" banners outside the Oregon Coast Aquarium. 
"A part of me feels sad," said 9­year-old Kasey Lindsay. who wore a Keiko T-shirt and sipped Keiko root beer outsid.e the aquarium. "But then I'm glad he is leaving so he can be with his family." 
The whale !waded to an Air Force C-17 transport plane for the eight­hour !light to Iceland. There, he will bn placed in a football-field-sized bay pen that will serve as a sort of halfway house until he is released into the wild. 
There was less enthusiasm in his soon-to-be home, where killer whales abound. "It's ridiculous to have a 21­ynar-old orca come back here to Iceland," said artist Eva Benjaminsdottir. Others questioned whether he can adjust to the wild. 
The 1 9 9 3 box-office hi l "F r l!e Willy," about an orca threatened by a villainous amusement park owner, look on a whole r111W meaning when it was learnnd that the real-life whale was actually in a cramped Mexico City tank. 
School kids .collnetnd pennies to hnlp save the ailing Keiko [KAY-kohl. Warner BI'Os. and cell-phone billion­aire Craig McCaw kicked in millions more to bring him to the spacious Oregon tank to recuperate from lung infections and lesions. was loaded into his water-mled, fiber­tried before, and whalo handlors at 
Two and a half years and $12 mil­glass box for his long !light to Iceland. aquariums across the nation say lion later, Keiko has regained his In his pen, Keiko will be reintro­Keiko's move is only a feel-good exer­strength, put on at least a ton of mus­duced to the sights and sounds of the cise that puts the whale at risk. cle and blubber and has taken lessons same waters off Iceland southern Critics say that Keiko isn't skilled 
-to catch his daily diet of 145 pounds coast where he was captured more enough at catching fish, has no expe­of fish, instead of being hand-fed. than 19 years ago at age 2. rience interacting with other orcas 
"He is the most fit whale I have Still, trying to transform a long­and could be shocknd by the frigid, ever seen in captivity," veterinarian captive, pampered whale back into a harsh conditions of the North Lanny Cornell said befor": the whale ruthless predator has never been Atlantic. 
• WASHINGTON 
Starr sends impeachment info 
AsSOCIATED PRESS said in front of the Capitol only the prosecutors' alle­for his behavior with for­after delivering a letter to gations, allegations. that we mer intern Moniea WASHINGTON House Speaker Newt have been denied a chance Lewinsky, first in a private 
Independent Counsel Gingrich 11.nd Democratic to review," meeting with Democrats at Kenneth Starr today sent leader Dick Gephardt. In his letter to Gingrich tho White Houso and thon Congress a report and two The president's attorney, and Gephardt, Starr said publicly at an appearance vanloads of "substantial David Kendall, summoned the report included secret in Florida. His lawyer was and credible" evidence of to the White House after the grand jury evidence and summoned to the White possible impeachable surprise delivery of the hinted it may also include House. offenses by President report on the Monica graphic details of Clinton's The vans earrying the Clinton, posing tho gravest Lewinsky investigation. sexual relationship with Ms. report of soveral hundrod threat to a president since complained that prosecu­Lewinsky. pages and 36 boxes of doc­Watergate. tors did not give Clinton a "Many of the supporting uments arrived at the 
"We have fulfilled our chance to review and materials contain informa­Capitol about 4 p.m. EDT, duty ... The responsibility answer the report's allega· tion of a personal nature touching off what promises for the information we have tions beforehand. that I respectfully urge the to be a long and difficult transmitted today and any "We do know this, there is House to treat as confiden­impeachment process in further ·action now lies with no basis for impeachment,'' tial," Starr wrote in the Congress -somt~thing the the Congress," Starr Kendall declared. He said one-page cover letter. White House has been brac­spokesman Charles Bakaly the documents "represent Clinton apologized anew ing l"or. 

Thursday, September 10, 1998

Page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
•etltltfJ otfte Scftoo[~ Followed by Community Lunch at the Joyce Center  

. ' 

. ' . ' . 
,.--~---------~--.--~-----~~-~-~~~~~-------~--~-~---~--------------------~--~ 
Thursday, September 10. 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• 
National tension rises, military fires into crowd 
A~~uci.HL'd Prt'""'---------------------­
I'll NOM I'EN II 

Cambodia's post-PIPrtion standoff PruptPd into turmoil and gunf'irp \1onday as till• rountry's strongman. llun SPn, ordPrPd tlw arrPsts of his opponPnts and as sPrurity nwn f'in~d into crowds of protPslPrs, killing at !PaS[ OllP pPrSOil. 
A long day of tpnsion. thrPats and surging crowds appParPd to Pnd on a ralming noll' at midnight as a n~pn~­SI'IltativP of llun SPn said that no imlllt'diatP aJTPsts would lw madP. liP also withdrPw llun SPn's thnHLt to n•movl' by midnight thousands of pro­tPstPrs who havP fiiiPd a park for two WPI'ks. 
But till• orgariizPr of till• pml.f~sts. and tlw rhil'!" targPt of llun SPn's tlm~ats­Sam l!ainsv -rPnrainPd ovPrnight insidl' tlw l;ugP rivPrsidP Cambodiana llotPI, whPn' lw had takPn rpfugn at thn oiTirP of tlw UnitPd Nations rnprnsl~nta­tiVP in Cambodia. 
"If llPPdPd, WI' will invitP him for talks and information, hut tlwn· is no arrest warrant for Sa111 I! a insy." said llu n SPn's rPprPsPntatiw. l'rum Sokha. tlw information dirPrtor in tlw intl'rior ministry. liP spokP following strong pn·ssurl' from forPign govPrnmPnts and tlw I lnitl'd Nations to bark away from !fun SPn·s thrPats, whirh followPd tlw nxplosion of two gn•nadl's at llun Spn's housl'. 
TogPtlwr with Norodom Hanariddh, Sam Hainsy has IPd an inrrnasingly assPrtivP pro!Pst against tho r!)sults of a parlianwntary l'iPrtion, lwld .July 2h, in whirh llun SPn was dPrlan•d tlwwin­
111' r. 
l'rilll'l' llanariddh a11d Sam Hainsy dairn that !IH• PIPI'tion was marTPd by irrPgularitiPs and tl~t•y arl' dPmanding a n·viPW of tlw ballots and llPW voting in ilrf•as wl11•rp lh1•y !JU!'Stion till' rPsults. Tlwy havl' said tlwy will blork tiH• formation of a Ili'W govl'rnnH~nt at thP Pnd of this month hy dPnying llun S1•n tlwrhanr1~ to put togPlhnr a coali­tion of two-t birds of parliamentary sPats. 
ThP oiTirial 1dPdion ri)Strlls givn llun Spn's party 64 snats, J>rinre Hanariddh's party 4:~ s1~ats and Sam llainsy's party I:i sPats in tlw 122-seat National AssPmbly. 
Monday's confrontation was touelwd 
orr wlwn three hand grenades worn thrown from onn or morn motorcycles at llun Sen's house in downtown Phnom l'nnh. Two grenades exploded insidn his 1:ompound and one fell harrn­lnssly outside, police said. No orw was hurt. 
llun Sen rarely stays at his Phnom l'nnh housn, prnl'erring a palatial. hnav­ily guardnd compound south of thn city. For tlw past s1weral days he has been 
had staged the attack as a prntext to move against his opponents. 
"They called for soldiers, police to shoot me, to overthrow me; they called on the United States to fire missilos at my house." he said, referring to some of Hainsy's incendiary rhetoric. "But when he could not succeed. he used this act of terrorism. So I think it has comn to a stage where l11gal action must be taken against this terrorist 
Phnom Penh divided 

Stn;:t!'rjm<m Hun &m.'11 OISPli~&:l \'t:::tury ~1 ' pt,~,'ililrlt]t'~~f)' E!){!(.~t~l.!lS ~•.1t'l ;!I'} tws :;parked m;.;Jss o~•po~torr 
Forces io~al tD op:cstt•:;n lea-Jer PnnOP 
~~orod0fl1 R~nartddh 
•.ro;,v ;o lrtter?Srl';' m.a::;s pr-c4e>SIS 
Cl$-~~dtJnl !e<~~r Sl!lt'lt fl<n:nrry has :.::•:?!1 1t.~ In;~ >11 11'1(!' kx:::u u N. ,j'i•:e 
RllnE~~rldd"'IO rilk.$l~nc• 

in tlw nor'thPrn city of Siem Hnap for highly publiriznd meetings with King Norodom Sihanouk. 
N1;vertlwlnss lw immediatnly brandnd thl) attack a coup attempt and his poliee chinf, llok Lundy, called it an assassination attnmpt. 
Spmtking angrily to reporters in Siem Heap, llun Sen announced: "The arrests are to start from this hour. llow many people will be arrested is up to the pmseeutors to decide. We urge the pnopln who are to be arrested not to resist." 
llun Snn denied speculation that he 
leader." 

Bainsy, who appears to have been try­ing to provokn llun Snn into rash action, had earlier used the "tnrrorist" labnl against him. 
llun Sen's statements aroused both the poliee and thedemonstrators in this city where tensions have grown as the round-the-clock protest has continued in a tent city outside the parliament build­ing. 
1\.s monks chanted in the campground Sunday afternoon, the police fired auto­matic weapons inti> the air. Snveral hun­dred young men then gathered in a 
noisy crowd at the gates of the Cambodiana llotel where Sam Hainsy had taken refuge. 
"IIun Son is a dog!" they shouted. "llun Sc n is Vietnam eso! Tlw poI icc are Vietnamnse! Tlw hotel is Vietnanwse!" 
In his speeches to tlw d1mwnstrators over the past two weeks, Sam Hainsy has lwlped arous1) anti-Vintnamnsn l'l)r­vor in a nation whern hatrnd of Cambodia's eastern neighbor runs dnop. Mobs have killed several Vietnamnse n~sidnnts in recent days. llun Snn was first install11d as Cambodia's leadnr by a Vietnamese oceupying army in I 1)H:i. 
Three times. as the crowd surged toward the hotnl's gates. security forc11s within tlw grounds f'ired pistols and automatk weapons. Somn fired into the air, sonw at thc ground. 
Onn man in his latn 20s was killed when lw was shot in tlw back of tlw head and was taken to a hospit~tl in a 
U.N. vehicle. Tlw protnsllws immmliatnly created a small shrino besidn a pool of his blood, with candlns, sticks of incense, a collodion of shell casings and the young man's 1:ap. its back portion in tatters. 
There wero uneonlirnwd reports that otiH~r pnoplc had also bnen kiiiPd. Several peopln worn woundnd. including a Buddhist monk. 
As llun Sen's midnight dnadline approadwd, an official n~ad tlw rrowd a statnmnnt f'rllm King Sihanouk. who has deplored the post-election standoff and threatened to abdicate if it is not resolvml. 
"Dear Mr. llun S11n," tlw statnment read. "I have just received information of the usc of violnncl' against our belovnd people and monks. Tlw use of weapons is outside Buddhist tnarhings and is sonwthing that could makl' tlw national crisis morn sPrious and push our nation to death." 
From insidn thn hotPI, Sam Hainsv callnd the collulal" tPinphorw of Bra~l Adams. a fornwr U.N. oflirial who was standing in the crowd. Adams gave tlw telephone to one of tlw dmnonstrators. lm Saveoun. and Sam Hainsy urg<~d him to return with the othnrs to the protnst campsite. 
lm Savcoun, an 18-ynar-old high school student. was almost too nxcited by his convnrsation to pass on the mnssage. Asked his name. he shoutml. "I am llun Sen! I can do anything I want to!" 

• RUSSIA 
Communist party increases pressure on Yeltsin 
As>ociared Press  denee  outside  of Moscow,  form a government of national  prime minister. "I do not have  a third and decisive time.  
Russia's economy continued  unity. they issued  a  platform  any  faith  in  a  lasting  Nobody could b(•  sure. how­ 
MOSCOW  its  downward  spiral.  The  echoing Soviet themes.  Communist comeback."  ever, just what Yeltsin would  
As Hussian President Boris  Kremlin  on Wednesday lifted  The Communists promised  The escalating crisis has led  do.  Alexander  Lobed.  a  
Ynltsin pondered for a  second  tarill's on medicines, a belated  cheap credits to ailing facto- to a  bitter round of finger­ Siberian governor and former  
day  ovnr  who would be his  niTort to cope with shortages  ries and tariffs  to  protect  pointing. Anatoly Chubais, thn  general, prodieted that Ytllrsin  
nPxt  prime  minister,  thn  of drugs in pharmacies and  Russian enterprises from for- former Kremlin aide who led  would yield to the demands of  
Communists  threatennd  hospitals.  eign competition. Major indus­ the  negotiations  with  the  the Communist opposition and  
WtHinusday  to  purstul  But the seareity of goods  - tries would be renationalized.  International Monetary Fund,  nominate Primakov or Yuri  
impt~achmnnt  proenodings if  and old-fashioned profiteering  Salaries would be paid and  insisted that the government  Maslyukov,  a  Communist  
he  renominates  Viktor  - has continued  to  drive  savings  protected.  There  had made every effort to stave  deputy and former Soviet eco­ 
<:hPrnomyrdin.  priees skyward. The  off the devaluation of'  nomie plann!:'r who served  
The warning was a pressurn tactic to indue!' YPitsin to abandon Chcrnomyrdin. In the hyzantint! world of Hussian  State Statistics Committee reported WPdnesday night that priens rose by :Hi per­ 'IN THE PRESENT SITUATION ... I CANNOT RULE OUT THE COMINT TO POWER OF A  the rublt' and satisfy the West. But he told the n e w s p a p e r  briefly in the Yeltsin overn­m e n t before resigning. The Communist-led parlia­ 
polities, it was also a defensive  eent during the first  GOVERNMENT WITH THE PARTICIPATION OF  Kommersant  that  ment has often cngag('(l in  
manPuver to block him from dissolving the parliament.  week of' September.Thn only apparent  COMMUNISTS ... [BUT) I DO NOT HAVE ANY  Yeltsin had acted eor­·rectly by denying to  loose talk about impeachment. Tho impeachment proePdures.  
"If Ynltsin  comes  up with  piece of good  news  FAITH IN A LASTING COMMUNIST COMEBACK/  the very end that the  however, have takPn on a new  
ChNnomyrdin for the third timf'. thP Duma will raisn thn issun of irnpPaehmnnr."  waH that the ruble rost.~ somewhat in value. Even that was  YEGOR GA/!JAR FBEFi M.111KBT Rr.ToliMBIIAND FonME"ll PIIIME M!Ntsrr:u  devaluation of the ruble was under eon­sideration, saying that  urgency. The parliament has lwicP rejected Chernomyrdin. Under.  
Communist  Party  leader  deceptive. The change, econo­ would be  a  crackdown  on  anything less would heighten  Hussia's constitution. a  third  
(;Pnnady  Zyuganov  told  mists said, was largely the  l.inancial speculation.  the panic.  rejection would force the disso­ 
rt~portnrs,  referring to  the  result of buying by banks.and  Some  of  Russia's  most  "So  now  the intP.rnational  lution of the body and nPw  
lownr housl' of parliament.  other customers who need  ardent market reformers con- financial institutions under­ parliamentary elccti"ons  - 
Ynltsin  huddlnd  with  rubles to pay their debts. H  eeded that the left might sue·  stand, despite the fact that we  unless the Communists rome  
Cl11•rnomyrdin and  Foreign  was not a voto of conlident~c in  ~~eed .-at ltlast temporarily ­ conned tht~m  for $20 billion,  up with thoir own legislative  
Minister Ytlvgnni f'rimakov.  the economy.  in securing a  place for them- that we had no other way.'' he  tactic to block it.  
who has been touted for prime  The chaos in the market·  selves in the Kremlin.  said ruefully.  That is why thPy are threat­ 
ministnr by the liberal and  place  was  grist  l'or  the  "In t.he present situation, of  The main focus, however,  ening to vote impeachment  
Communist  opposition.  as  Communists, who have cast  courso, l cannot rule out tho  was on the wrangling over the  bofore Chernomyrdin's nomi­ 
srwctrlation swirlPd that he  themselves asthe champion of  coming to power of a  govern- prime  minister  post.  Yuri  nation is taken up again. A  
111 ig h t shuffle tlw dee k yet  Russia's downtrodden and dis­ rnent with the participation of'  Luzhkov, Moscow's pugnacious  vote to impPa1:h would pre­ 
again and piek  a  rww  <·andi­ possnssed. With Yoltsin at  Communists or a government  mayor,  who  met  with  dude thn presidnnt from dis­ 
datn.  Gorky-IJ, the Communists took  controlled by the Communists,"  Chernomyrdin on Wednesday,  solving the parliament for sev­ 
As tlrP prl'sidtlnt remairwd  centnr  stage  Wednesday.  said Yegor Gaidar, the free  said he believed Yeltsin would  eral months. aecording to the  
closdPd in his Gorky-1J resi- Declaring thnir willingness to  market rP.t'ormnr and former  ronorninato Chernomyrdin l'or  constitution.  

---~--~-------~~---~~------~­
--~ -·-~-----­

page 8 The Observer • NEWS Thursday, September 10, 1998 
Government gets 'D' for handling millenium glitch 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

A House panel gave the fed­eral government a "D" grade Wednesday for its efforts to fix the Year 2000 computer prob­lem, predicting more than one-third of the most impor­tant systems won't be fixed in time. 
It also predicted the govern­ment will spend $6.3 billion on the problem, much higher than a $5.4 billion estimate that the Office of Management and Budget made last week. 
OMB said Wednesday it didn't include agency esti­mates that it hasn't already approved as "appropriate." That amount includes $550 million for the Health and Human Services Department and $295 million for the Treasury Department. 
Five agencies criticized in the past for their lack of progress earned individual "F" grades, although the Defense and Transportation depart­ments improved slightly since June to a "D." 
"This is not a grade you take home to your parents, and it is 
Tourists use subs to visit Titanic remains 
Asso'ciared Press 
NORTH ATLANTIC 
Four tourists were ushered to the Atlantic floor on Wednesday to see the rusting hulk of the Titanic -suddenly a sightseeing attraction, 86 years after its ill-fated voyage. 
Two Americans. and two Germans boarded submersibles that took them 2 1/2 miles under the North Atlantic's sur­face, 368 miles off Newfoundland. The price: $32,500 per person. 
The dives wer~ madein defi­ance of a federal judge'? order barring anyone from visiting the site, because of another company that owns salvage and other rights to the wreck of the legendary oceanliner. 
"What right has an American court to stop me from visiting a piece of history on internation­al seas?" asked Anne White of England, one of a dozen tourists who joined 85 crew members and scientistson the expedition. 
"After alL" she said. "the British built the ship." 
The first to go doW'tl were two Californians. Their fellow tourists cheered them on as they climbed into a 23-foot sub­mersible along with a Russian pilot. and then were lowered by crane into the ocean. 
An hour later, a German stu­dent and a photographer fol­lowed in another mini•sl.lbma­rine. The trip to the wreckage takes about 2-1/2 hours. 
Each of the egg-like sub­mersibles, Mir 1 and Mir 2, has tiny portholes with thick win­dows and floodlights to allow a view of the Titanic's carcass. 
The trip was planned about a year ago by Mike McDowell, an 

Australian living in Germany 
who organizes a<:lventurous 
expeditions around.the/world. 
McDowell and his company, 
Deep Sea Expeditions Ltd., had 
planned to bring 60 tourists on 
the trip, but that was before an 
injunction was sc;mght• by RMS 
Titanic Inc;, an American<com­
pany that holds salvage and 
photographic rights to the ship­
wreck. 
Ttlis slimrne}', that ¢1:li:nP<l>l1Y 
brought up a :number of pieces 
from the wreck, including a 26­
by"20-foot segment of rusted 
hull. 
Jt1dge. CaMtt/Clatke J}'i'f'Uled RMS Titanic had exclusive rights to excavate, view and photograph the ship because it was "preserving the a}'tifacts salVaged r the wreck for the benefit 0 'a mankind;" 
He barred anyone from going 
within 10 nautical miles of the· 
wreck. The; ship, hilled as 
Ul)Sinkable, pi.t an ici);berg and 
went down.on its maiden voy" 
age in 1912, with a loss of 
more than 1,500 lives. 
McDowell appea the 
ruJing. He> e~< ·.~~r an. American cotl as no r!ght to· prevent anyone from viewing the wreck in international 
waters. 
His ship ":hf\5 every:rigM to 
be here on international waters 
doing scientific research and 
programs, especially in this 
area where no· attemp~ l\tsal­
vagirtg is being under~a~(:)n," 
he said as hepaced the deck. 
The ship .,-.-,. the Akademik 
Keldysh. owned by the Shirshov Institute . of ·oceanology. has made numerous trips to the site. and even took James Cameron, director of the film "Titanic," to 
see. the wreck. 
definitely not a grade to take back to the voters and taxpay­ers," said Rep. Stephen Horn, R-Calif., who is chairman of the technology subcommittee for the House Committee on Government Reform and Oversight. 
Other agencies earning an "F" from Horn's subcommittee included Health and Human Services, Energy, State, Education and the Agency for International Development. 
Three agencies earned an "A": Social Security, the National Science Foundation and the Small Business Administration. 
The subcommittee, which periodically issues its "Y2K" report cards, said its $6.3 bil­lion estimate was based on lig­ures submitted by 24 depart­ments and agencies, which 
they also submitted to the OMB. . But OMB said it didn't count estimates from some agencies because it was still trying to determine whether those fig­ures were appropriate. "There are some estimates we are still reviewing to deter­mine if they are appropriate and acceptable Year 2000 costs," spokeswoman Linda Ricci said. Republicans have accused the Clinton administration of failing to push hard enough to prevent potential Year 2000 problems, which could affect 
electricity, water supplies, cash registers and even traffic 
lights. 
Many computers originally programmed to recognize only the last two digits of a year won't work properly after Jan. 
1, 2000, when machines will assume it is 1900. Some com­puters can be reprogrammed, but many devices have embed­ded microchips that must be physically replaced. 
For example, Horn said, the city of Baton Houge, La., reported that water pumps on its fire trucks aren't affected by the Year 2000 problem, but the truck ladders won't work without repairs. 
Horn also criticized some agencies' plans to fix tlw prob­lem by replacing affected com­puters, saying that could lead to further delays. 
"When was the last time you heard the government putting a new computer in place on schedule?" Horn said. "There is no room for the usual slip­page. There is no margin for PITOr." 

"U S sueet pr~c~; for Palm Ill orgammr IS $399. Al.l pnces U.S. hs! prices 1MacPac Connectloo kll requrre.d for Mawuosh conll6C!Mty, rold separ~telv Palm~ Marl and Expens& applicatrons and some links to desktop sottwalli not available lor Madn10sh, excspt !hrough GfJ/IOflal third-paiTf sol!A1005. wid separare/y tD 1998 3Cam Corp 3Com, dle JCom logo, Palm Compufing, ~nd HotSync are l&giSte/!i!f trademarks, ~rn:l Palm Ill, Palm, !he Palm Ill logo, Ho!Sync logo and lhe Palm Computing platform logo are trademarks of Palm Computmg, loc or 3Com Corporatim 
The Palm Ill" connected organizer keeps 
track of what's due and other important stuff. like your cute lab partner's phone number and Saturday's parties. 

Touch the HotSync® button to exchange and back up info with your PC (even download e-mail' you haven't read yet). About the only !hing it can't do to make your life easier is write that paper. Organizers from Palm Computing start as low as $299*~ For an authorized Palm Ill retailer or campus computer store. call 1-800-242-9005 or visit www.palmcampus.com. 
Palm Jtr. 





"THE BEST FROZEN YOGURT IN SOUTH BEND!" 
CAMPUS SHOPPES 1837 SO. BEND AVE. SOUTH BEND 
271-9540 (2 BLOCKS EAST OF N.D.) 
-5o~ o~-A-ny i;uit-r-----so-~ -oti!----f-so~ oif 'Y;u~ "N;;,-
Smoothae or Shake I Buy aregular or large cup or cone oll!oten I WaHle Cone•
1
luy any Fruit Smoothie or Frozen Yogult yogurt and receive 50 cents off! I • Shake and receive SOC off. : 1 1
CIMPISSI!I!'PH : ~~tlrs!. CIIII'UlSIIOPP!l I
~~Mm AU ~a~m 101111111111 IIUTH liMO 
ROLFS SPORTS RECREATION CENTER UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center Drop-In Recreation Schedule 
In-Line Hockey  Sundays  8:30-10:30  
Floor Hockey  Mondays  8:30-10:30  
Indoor Soccer  Tuesdays  8:30-10:30  
Volleyball  Wednesdays  7:00-10:00  
Lacrosse  Thursdays  8:30-10:30  
Badminton  Fridays  7:00-10:00  

Come by Yourself, or Bring a Friend! 
All times are PM. Schedule is in effect only when classes are in session. 

~--~--­
page 17

Thursday, September I 0, 1998 The Observer· MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Alomar homer leads Orioles to 6-2 win at Oakland 
A.ISot'iared Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. 

Holwrlo Alomar hit a thnw­run homer and Brady Anderson hit a solo shot Wednesday as tho Baltimore Orioles lwal the Oakland Athleties (J-2. 
Tlw Oriolt~s won tlwir second straight game after losing seven of tlwir prnvious I 0. 
.luan Guzman ( 10-14) allowml holh runs and six hils in rive innings. lin is 4-2 since the Orioles aequirnd him from Toronto on .July:~ I . .Jimmy Key, Alan Mills and .Jesse Oroseo fol­lowPd and combinPd on one-hit ndinf. 
A's starter Jimmy llaynns (I 0-R) gave up all six runs ­four narrwd -and eight hits in 5 2-:~ innings. 
With Baltimore ahead 3-2 in the sixth, Alomar hit his 13th homer following singles by B.J. Surhoff and Mike Bordick. 
Anderson's 16th homer put Baltimore ahead in the first, but Hyan Christenson tied it with an HBI double in the third. Baltimore then went ahead 3-1 in the fifth on Harold Baines' 
sacrifice lly and a run-scoring  
infield  single  by  Rafael  
Palmeiro.  

Ben Grieve pulled Oakland within a run in the bottom half on Ben Grieve's HBI single. 
Erie Chavez. who made his major league debut Tuesday night, started at third for Oakland. The 20-year-old hit, selected the minor league play­er of the year by Baseball America, hit .327 with :n home 
Reminder: 
If you are inteJSted in hosting a prospective student for an overnight visit, you will need to attend following 

runs and 126 HBis at Double-A Huntsville and Triple-A Edmonton. 
Chavez was 1-for-4, singled in the second for his first major league hit. 
Chicago 4, Pittsburgh 2 
Returning to Wrigley Field didn't bring baek Sammy Sosa's power stroke. 
Sosa failed to homer for the fourth straight game and went 0-for-3 as th,e Chicago Cubs beat the Pittsburgh Pirates 4-2 Wednosday. 
Less than 24 hours after watching Mark McGwire hit his historie 62nd home run in St. Louis, Sosa remained four behind his Cardinals rival. It's the first time Sosa went homer­less in four games since Aug. 11-15. 
Mark Grace hit a three-run homer for the Cubs, who began the day tied with the New York Mots in the NL wild-card race. 
Jason Schmidt (11-11) walked Sosa in his first at-bat, bringing boos from the crowd, and Grace followed with his 15th homer. Sosa grounded sharply to third base in the second inning, bounced to second base in the fifth, then struck out in the eighth against Jason Christiansen. 
Sosa insisted he wasn't disap­pointed MeGwire reached 62 first and broke Roger Maris' record. 
"Not really. The man, he did it. lie deserved it. I was happy for him. I was clapping for him," Sosa said Wednesday, sit­ting relaxed in the dugout before the game. 
"And I went and gave him a hug. He pulled me in the air. It was unbelievable. That's some­thing that's not going to happen every day." 
Schmidt retired 18 straight after Mickey Morandini's sec­ond-inning single, then was lift­ed for a pinch hitter. He allowed four hits in seven innings, struck out nine and 

Make A Career Out of Spending Other People's Money. 
Please join us for an 
information session: 
Wednesday, September 16 Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 6:00 -8:00 pm 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Career &Placement 
MEDIA... It is what takes ideas from the conceptual and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad outdoors. At Starcom, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplace to go? 
"' 
tlr * * 
* * 
STARCOM MEDIA SERVICES 
A OMs-an orLl1o Bumert Comt)IJ!tV. Inc; 
walked one. 
Former-Pirate Orlando Merced had a pinch-RBI single in the eighth off Todd Van Poppe!. 
Pittsburgh's Kevin Young had an· RBI single in the first to reach 100 HB!s for the first time in his career, and Turner Ward led off the second by homering off Mark Clark (8-13). 
Clark allowed five hits in 7 2­3 innings, struck out 10 and walked one. Rod Beck pitched the ninth for his 45th save. 
Seattle 5, Tampa Bay 2 
Paul Abbott won his first start in five years and Hyan Hadmanovich hit his first major league home run, leading the 
Seattle  Mariners  over  the  
Tampa Bay  Devil  Hays  5-2  
Wednesday.  

Ken Griffey Jr. went 1-for-4 
and remained at 50 home runs. Alex Hodriguez was 2-for-4 and stole his· 41st base but remained one homer shy of becoming the third 40-40 play­er in major league history. 
Seattle moved out of last place in the AL West for the first time since Sept. 1, jumping ahead of Oakland. 
Abbott (1-0). who had a liga­ment in his elbow replaeed last season, made his first major league start since 1993 for Cleveland. lie allowed two runs and six hits in 5 2-3 innings. Mike Timlin got three outs for his 14th save. 
Tampa's Holando Arrojo (13­
12) gave up five runs and 10 hits in six innings. 
Hich Butler's HBI single put Tampa Bay ahead in thn sec­ond, but Seattle look a 2-1 lead .innings later. 


Thursday Night 

Whe's ye' Daddy 11cwith <Hotc[ Wrati 
W! 

Doors open at 9:00 Band starts at 10:00 
Specials all night long 


page 18 The Observer • NATIONAL SPORTS Thursday, September I 0, 1998 
• NtnWNM. FooraAu. Luu~ur: 
New Cleveland Browns commence operations 
Associared Press 
CLEVELAND 

Carmen Policy showed up for work Wednesday, and there was plenty of it to go around. 
What is Policy's most impor­tant job on Day 1 as part­owner and president of the Cleveland Browns? It's hard to say, but talking to George Seifert is near the top of the list. 
"I am going to sit down with George Seifert." Policy said Wednesday of his former coach with the San Francisco 49ers. 'Til sit down with George as a friend and a col­league and just bounce some ideas off him. I don't know if we'll talk about his personal plans." 
After visiting the Browns' training complex in suburban Berea with majority owner AI Lerner, Policy discussed his immediate plans for building the Browns in an interview with The Associated Press. 
Lerner and Policy were awarded Cleveland's expan­sion team Tuesday night when NFL owners accepted Lerner's $530 million bid. It ineludes $54 million for stadium costs 
and is the most expensive sports team in U.S. history. 
There is plenty of work and not much time to do it. The Browns can begin signing free agents in a few months. and they have the first pick in the next NFL draft. The first game is less than a year away, and the Browns don't have a coach, general manager or a single player. 
But they have Policy. who is getting right to work. 
"The cost of this franchise adds a whole new dimension to this sport's assets," Policy said. "The ability to operate it in a fashion that makes sense from abusiness standpoint as well as from the standpoint of being competitive in the NFL become a little bit more difficult. 
"Combine that with the hun­gry. football-starved fans in Cleveland who are used to a voracious appetite and add that to the time factor, it's very difficult." 
Does Policy have enough time to put a competitive team on the field next August? 
"I like to think that I operate better under heavy pressure and actually function at my best when the heat is on," said Policy. credited for building the 49ers dynasty under owner Eddie DeBartolo Jr. 
Policy said he will try to meet with Seifert next wnek in New Ynrk to "share ideas." Seifert, under contract for at least this season as a commentator for CBS, could be available for a coaching position after he works the AFC championship game in January. 
''I'll call him and see what his schedule is," Policy said. "If the subject of his personal plans comes up, we 'II discuss that." 
Policy said he most likely won't hire a coach until after this season because, "you would cut off so many poten­tial candidates." lie doubts he'd hir-e someone to be both coach and general manager. 
"In this day and age with the salary cap and free agency. it's just too much for one person," he said. 
Policy said he would not be the GM, and he didn't think former Browns quarterback Bernie Kosar wanted such a position. lie said Kosar's role, probably evaluating talent, would be determined soon. 
As for Seifert's chances as a 

Follow your favorite national sports team in The Observer 
.­
GM candidate, Policy said, "If George returned to work with the team, it would be in the coaching position." 
Policy has a gentlemen's agreement on a contract that will be announced when the closing of the purchase is com­plete. He wouldn't say how much it pays him or how long it lasts, but ''it's not short-term by NFL standards." He was making $1.5 million a year, as 
president of the 49ers befon~ resigning in July. 
lie said the most important task right now is to make sure the Browns' new $280 million stadium gets finished -and finished right. 
"You have to go in there and look at that stadium," Policy said. "One thing AI doesn't want is to visit another stadi­um in another city and see something better." 

Thursday, September17 Stepan Courts 
Co-Ree 6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: Wednesday, September 16 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 


When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological s~per~ower-Raytheon Syste~s Company composed of four major technolog1cal g1ants: Raytheon Electromc Systems, 'Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon !1. Systems and Hughes.Ai.rcraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is dnvmg technology to the lim1t. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. 
Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. 
We have a lot to tell you about the new Raytheon Systems Company and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair then check out our website at www.rayjobs.com and please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. 

~~--~-.~--------------~--------~--------~------~~--------------~~---------~----~ 
Thursday, September 10, 1998 The Observer· MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL page 19 
St. Lo 
Downtown thousands even Cardinals on 
Associated Press 

COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 
The baseball that Mark McGwire hit for his 62nd home run finally landed Wednesday right where he said it belonged -in the Hall of Fame. 
And the ball, which was auto­graphed by McGwire and dated 
"9-8-98," had plenty of company when it was transported down Main Street in a state police sport utility vehicle. 
Accompanying it were McGwire's brown, flamed-treated Rawlings bat, with his signature just above the label; his hat, uniform, size 13 cleats and batting gloves; the uniform his batboy son Matt was wearing; and the official scorecard of the game kept by Jack Ruck, who noted the home run with a jubilant "62!" 
"This is like Christmas," said IIall of Fame president Don Marr, who put on a pair of white gloves to hold the bat aloft for cameras to record the his­toric moment. "We knew Mark McGwire was going to be generous. but we didn't know it would be so spontaneous, in the heat of the cele­bration." 
More than 200 people awaited the 
arrival of the artifacts and broke out in to a chorus of "Take Me Out to the Ball Game" just before the cache arrived. 
"All right! 62! 62! 62!" they shouted in unison as the items were car­ried inside the llall of Fame. "Show us the bat!" 
That will have to wait until 11 a.m. Thursday, when a display ­
"The March on Maris" 
Ball, memorabilia arrive in Cooperstown for display 
-will be unveiled in the main lobby. The exhibit will be there at least one year, said exhibits curator Ted Spencer. 
Also part of the bonanza of artifacts was the black Hawlings bat Sammy Sosa of the Chicago Cubs was using when he hit his 57th home run of the season. That drive brok1~ Hack Wilson's Cubs record, which had stood as the National League record until McGwire and Sosa came along. 
"This is a particularly monumental day for the IIall of Fame." Marr said. "This speaks volumes about baseball players. They're our greatest support­ers. Both players could not have been more generous. Fortunately, the ball was rctriev1~d and given to Mark. We found that refreshing." 
A photo of Babe Huth giving his farewell address at Yankees Stadium 

-
just before his death a half-century ago hung on a wall to the left of Marr. making the moment that much morn poignant. 
"Mark McGwin~ has said these arti­facts belong here," said Marr, who slept with them Tuesday night just to make sure. "lie's a man of his word. It was a spontaneous reaction by McGwire in the locker room. We didn't expect to be coming home with this." 
Marr and two of his colleagues at the Hall of Fame traveled to St. Louis on Tuesday carrying the bat that Hoger Maris used to hit his 61 st home run in 1961, the drive that broke Huth's hallowed mark of (>0, set in 1927. 
Marr said the idea was to share tlw 
. memory with McGwire, Sosa and the Maris family, also in attendance at Busch Stadium sincn the weekend. "They were really toucl11~d by the bat," Marr said. 
Attention all H.U.G.S. 

THURSDAY_S 
Members:

Join us for cool music, dancing and CLASS-OF-1999 PRICES! 
There will be a • 99¢ Specials 
mandatory meeting • 99¢ Cover with Student ID 

on Thursday,

($5 without) 
September lOth 

I 
at 6:00pm 222 S. MICHIGAN ST. 
at the C.S.C. 

SOUTH BEND • (219) 234-5200 
www.aceplaces com/heartland 
Men's Soccer 
vs.


]acuity and Staff -Appreciation Day 
Pittsburgh 
9nvite your favorite 

Sunday,Sept. 13th
faculty or staff member to the game! 
1:00pm 

Complimentary refreshments for 
Donate a can food item to benefit the faculty and staff 
South IJend Homeless Shelter 


page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, September 10, 1998 

NY clinches AL East title with I 02nd win 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

A foregone ·conclusion became reality Wednesday night when the New York Yankees clinched the AL East title, beating the Boston Red Sox 7-5 as Derek Jeter and Paui.O'Neill both hit a pair of solo homers. 
The Yankees, who have led by 10 games or more since June 24, improved to 102-41 and moved 20 112 games ahead of second-place Boston. They've won their last two games after losing 11 of 19. 
Boston lost for the sixth time in seven games but remained 4 1/2 games ahead of Toronto in the AL wild-card race. 
Jeter's homers in the first and thir.d innings, which raised his total to 19, helped the Yankees build a 5-0 lead. But Scott Hatteberg's first career grand slam cut it to 5-4 in the fourth. 
O'Neill homered in the fifth to make it 6-4, but Boston got that run back in the bottom half against Ramiro Mendoza (9-2) on a double by Nomar Garciaparra, a single by Troy O'Leary and Mike Stanley's double-play grounder. 
O'Neill then hit his 21st homer in the eighth, making in the 12th multihomer game of his career. 
Tim Wakefield (15-8) allowed five runs and five hits in four innings. New York's Orlando Hernandez gave up four runs and five hits in 3 2-3 innings. Rivera got three outs for his 35th save. 
Leading 2-0, the Yankees added three runs in the fourth. Williams was hit by a pitch and scored on Tina Martinez's double. Jorge Posada doubled in another run and scored on Scott Brosius' single. 
Hernandez, who had won four of his previous five deci­sions, gave up just one hit through three innings before allowing four runs in the fourth on Hatteberg's 11th homer after walks to Mo Vaughn and Stanley. 
Shay 
continued from page 24 
this fall. 
"Anytime you can run in that caliber of a competition you're going to learn something," coaeh Piane said of Shay's experience. "So if you get into another meet event, you're not as intimidated. It will absolute­ly help him." 
Shay runs approximately 100 miles a week to get in shape for the season. 
Not just a cross-country spe­cialist, Hyan also runs the 5,000 and 10,000 meter runs during the track season. 
A hip flexor injury kept him out of those races during the season last year. Of all his events, cross country seems to reign as his favorite. "In eross­country I feel stronger beeause of' the elements," Shay explains. "Runners have trou­ble with turns, hills and the wind, but I consider these to be my strengths and that helps." 
The Notre Dame cross coun­try season begins this weekend with the Wolf and Kettle Invitational in Elgin, Ill. 


Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandwiches, Service & More! 
Location: 
-in the Campus Shoppes -I835 South Bend Ave. -Between Ironwood and Edison 
Hours: 
-Sunday to Thursday I lam to lam -Friday and Saturday I lam to 3am 
FREE DELIVERY 
243-9911 

Wolfie's 
Pasta, Sandw~ches, Service & More!!! any 12" HAM & CHEESE Sandwich $4.99+tax 
(valid till 9/16/98),just mention this ad. 
FREE DELIVERY 243-9911 
(Limited Delivery Area-$5 Minimum-Drivers Carry Less Than $20) · Check us out at http://www.woltie.net 
Get the Chicago Tribune 

<fhira.Do iTribune 

In areas where home delivery is not available, mail subscriptions will be offered at the current mail subscription rate. Offer expires December 31, 1998. 
chlcagotrlbune.com 

--------· -----­
----~--­
-~--~------­
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, Seprember I0, 1998 --------------------os~ERVER page 9 

THE OBSERVER 
NCJII<I l>Mvll OHICI-: 1'.0. Box Q, Notre Dam(', IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINI M/\1\Y\ O~I·IG.: 50'> I laggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (21 ')) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF !leather Cocks MANAI;ING EDITOR lllJSINf.IS MANA<;ER Bri.an Rc:inlh,,\t"r Kyle Carlin 
lhSISTANT MANA<'IN<. EI>ITOI! llt'<Hhcr M.td\.l•tuic 

N1-w., Em nHt ... ....... Mi~,.hd\c: Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGEH .............. Kerry McPardin VII·WI'<JINI' i:I>IIOR .. .. Edu.udn 1.\ull An DESIGN MANAGER.. .. ............!hen Huel:u SI10HI'S Em1oH.... . . ........ K.uhll"clll.upc1 SYSTEMS MANA<;mt ... Mi~.:had Rrouillc1 SnNJ-EDITORS. .. ..........Sar.d1 D,vl.>)l CoNTitOI.I.Eit .. .. ............. Dave Rogero 
Kri,tl Kli'''h WEn AI>MINISTIIATOI! .. . .. ..... Jenniter Breslow SAIN'I MARV\ f.OJIOR ...... M. ~h.111non Ry.m GltAfliiiCS EnnoR .............................. Pcre Cil~ll" PIIOI'O FUITOit ........... Kcvtn !>alum 
l'h~· ( >lh~·rwr ''til~· tmlqtl'tllk·nt 11LW'P·'Pl'l puhll!>hnl hy du: Mmlt·rw. of th~· Untvcro;ity nfNmre l),Hnt< du be and \.unt M,tl')'' ( .ullq.w. h tlu~·' 11111 IU.'U'\.\Mily rdlcct tht· pulu::tc,'' nf the aJmini~tr.uion uf either irmitution. The llt'W\ i~ l'l'jlllltl'll ,,, .tu ut,lld~· .111d nh]l'l.'tivdy ,,, ptmthk. llmign~:d ~·dirnri.tl~ rcpn.:~cnt tht· upininn of the m;~jurity ofthe hl11m-m-C .'hid. ,\tl/1.1~1/r~ hl!!t)f, A\\L\I.ml ~VI.m.t~in!-: Editor .uul dcpartllll'llt cditttr.,, ( :omm~·m~uics, letter' anJ LnlunHI\ prC\l'tll tiK vii.'W' of dw .unhur,, .uul nut llt'l"l'<;\Otrily thmc ufTiw l )b:o.I.TVtr. Viewpoint space i:o. .JVailahlc 10 otll IUI'tnlxor. nl tht· Nutrl' I >.und\.unt ~1.uy', l"llllliiHiflity .utd Ill ,til rc.lllcr~. 'l"he l'rt·c cxprl.'~~ion orVOU')'tng opinions rhrnuJ.th kucr' '' Cltlour.tgnl 
Contacting The Observer l:.dttor-ln·(:lttd. (,_\ l-4'i42 1\u;ino.,,, Office 631-S3U fvbn.J~lll~ hlllor/A:o.\l.,t.mt ME (,_\ 1-4541 Advmi,ing 631-6900/8840 Ncw,/Piu,to 6J1-'l.:\2.' SystCfll!l. 631-8839 Sporh (,,I-4S4.l F•x 6.>1-6927 \lt'll("//S.tint M.1rv\ (,,) l-4'i40 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.cdu Il.ty Ftlnor/Vicwj.,nuH (>51-'i.IO.I Ad-E-Mail nb~crver@darwi n.cc. nd.ed u ()ffin M.m.t~cr/(;cncr.lllnform.llion 6.11-7471 New< E-Mail ob~crvcr.ubsncw~.l @nd.cdu 
C0l{;Rt~<;\~ ~\GN ~C\\EVULE 

•LIFE AT NO 
Adding diversity soup to the stone 
As a child. I ont~n !ward a beautiful story m1litlPd "Stone Soup." Basieally, tlw cPntral characler was trying to get lhl'st• folks logetlwr !'or a meal. Being sl'lfish and lazy, howtwnr, they each dl'r.idPd t.o stay homo and keep thnir food !'or tlwmsPivns. Undaunted. this pt>rson dl'ridt'd to rook and Pnjoy what littlt• slw had anyway. 
Mel Tardy 

Singing io lwrstdl', shn happily set a big ol' pot of' water to boiling. She got a big spoon out and stirr-ed and stirn~d. Finally. she added a large, smooth stone with a loud plop, tlwn eovt~rml tho top. t\11 thP while, she sang to horse!!'. occasionally tasting her brow to see if it was ready. 
Now, of course, all of those selfish folk were dying from curiosity. In their minds, tlwy know it was just a stone in sonw water. but slw was carrying on like it was such a treat that, finally, thn least patient of' them came outside to tastn it for himsnll'. lie took a sip, and said it was bland. llowever, he had somn potatoes and, insisting the soup would b11 better with them, he promptly ploppml those in with the rock. Tlwn, someone came up and addml eanots, then another came and addml salt, and so on. Eventually, they had a delicious pot of stone soup which was happily shared by all who helpnd mak11 it. Of course, we suspect, the wisn woman knew it would work out all along. 
The nwssage of tlw story is beautiful: soup tastes better when gifts are shared. Yet, too oftnn in our own lives, many of' us settle for hot water and a rock. In tnrms of diversity, sharing gifts can make our collective experi­tmces so much better, at Notre Dame and beyond. 
When I look back at my own life experiences, I can identify cm·tain peo· pie who have shaped and influenced my soup mixture. As a young boy, I was inlluenced by the predomi­nantly 1\frican American, Catholic, southern environ­ment I experienced through my relativ11s and friends in New Orleans. (\ ~ 
"'

I had my southern ~ drawl, y'alls, "dirty .. /,~:-~-J \ rice" and all. I also ;Y----.._ (. ....~ 
~aw sdtr:e?t art:stbs, t ./ ~:'1-.. .• Jazz, 1x1e1anc, 11 ·/·" > also Opel'a-sung 
by both my parents. 
Then, my family moved to Milwaukee for my high school years. There, I learned about "bubblers" (drinking fountains.) From my German friends, I learned about Oktoberfest, bratwurst and raw beef (a delicacy if you're German, which I'm not, so I passed.) I had a lot of Polish friends who, like me, were also a bit outcast in my predominantly Caucasian school. From them, I learned to polka and eat Polish sausage. 
Then there were the Goldbergers, a Jewish family around the corner from my home. Our families grew very close during those years. From them, I learned about Hanukkah and Barmitzvahs. When I'd see them study Ilebrew and worship all day on Saturdays, I guiltily felt compelled to do more than my one hour of church on Sundays. My memories of them became an integral part of my spiritual development. 
When I came to Notre Dame, I added more to my soup. My African American roommate gave me a window into Chicago's tough south side and, given 
my naivete, 
became 
my de 
-·~"'-u.......-: •.,.~,.,.. 1 added to enrich my existence. I could go on and on, about what I've added to the soup mix since graduation ... but that's the whole beauty of it. . We at Notre Dame should not -· ··.;· harbor our gifts from each other. 
/ ?/' / There is so much more we canf}j7d bt:com~, a~ individuals and as a~ umvers1ty, If we learn to share and
::7t:J
:>/ aRp;eciate our co.llective, gifts. '7 ./' I h1s year, therelore, lets get 
~ 

faeto link to the African American com­munity at ND. 
Another roommate, this one an Irish­Italian "army brat" who had spent a few years in Germany, taught me about life in Europe (and expanded my insights into Oktoberfest!). Then there was my sectionmate, Virge, who often shared with me the difficulties of living on an Indian Reservation. 
Later, I returned to ND for MBI\ school. I was the only 1\frican American in my class, but I still found ways to add to my soup. I became close to classmates from .Japan, China, !long Kong, Poland, France, Canada, India, Iran, Cuba, not to mention numerous Ameriean states. Wlwn I went to London for my third semester of MBA school, I gained valuable expe­riences in London, Franee, Amsterdam, Yugoslavia. and ln~land. My MBA roommates in London includ­ed a coal mining engineer from West Virginia and a tea-drinking buddy !'rom Taiwan who shared with me life in the Taiwanese military. 
I suppose I see myself as that stone 
in that woman's soup, to whieh a 
whole lot of' other things have been 
together and make a little stone soup. 
If I bring mine and you bring yours, 
I'm sure there'll be plenty to go around. (Of course, we suspnct, when the wise woman on the dome brought us together this year, she knew this would work out, all along!) 
Melvin R. Tardy, Notre Dame '86 and '90. is an advisor with the First Year of Studies. lie can be reached at tardy.l@nd. edu. /lis column usually runs every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
'When the American 
people get through 
with the English language, it 
will look as if it had been run 
over by a musical comedy.' 
-Finley Peter Dunne 

GARRY TRUDEAU
• OooNESBURY 

VIEWPOINT 
page 10 OB~ERVER ----------------Thursday, September 10, 1998 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
TheWRC was not snitched on 
I read with intense interest Professor Manier's let­ter to the editor entitled. "Snitchcitylhou$edivid~. ed." You see I am the snitch. Let me repeat that in case the professor is displeased with the vociferous­ness of this confession: I AM THE SNITCH. 
The odd part, however, i!ilthat neither mys~lfnor the tattletale, Christine Gahany, ever even attempt· ed to protect our anonymity. The Observer pub· lished a letter from Miss Gabany lastspring, fl.l't'l· cis ely detailing her encounter with the·Womej'}'s Resource Center. I also wrote a similar letter myself. which, unfortunately, was submitted too late to be included in the paper's last issue ofthe academic year. 
There was nothing secretive about what I did. I walked into the WRC and stated, "I was wondering if you had any information on abortion;" I was then given numerous pieces of literature about abortion. from both anti-abortion and pro-abortion groups. The worker also handed me a brochure from an abortion clinic in Niles, detailing the various a.bor~ tion procedures, the current prices for differing geS· tational ages of the baby, and a map describing how to get to the clinic. The worker then offered to take my name and number and have an abortion c()ttn· selor call me. 
The issue here, and I will attempt to he very lucid, is not that the WRC was providing information con­cerning abortion. As a pro~life activist of nine years, I have no fear whatsoever of the dissemination of facts about abortion. In fact. I have spent a great deal of time providing unbiased and scientifically accurate information on abortion to those around me, as I believe that an honest and brave examina­tion of the facts will inevitably lead the intelligent individual to the pro-life position, My objection has nothing to do with restricting ''academic freedom," as the professor insinuates. Instead, I object to an organization funded by, housed in and representing a Catholic university referring women for abortions~ Both Christine and I were given referrals to abortion clinics when the WRC workers presumed thatwe were pregnant (though if asked, we would certainly have responded that we werenot). · 
Perhaps Professor Manier has never encountered a young woman facing an unplanned pregnancy, particularly in a hostile environment. I have worked at several pregnancy help centers overthe years, and I cannot stress enough the absolute fear and vulnerability that these young women face. In such a situation. the woman is very susceptible to every influence. especially from those people and places which she has sought out specifically to garner advice. To walk into the WRC, in the heart of this university's campus, and to be referred to an abor· tion clinic by the worker there would undoubtedly be interpreted as a statement of encouragement by the University. 
I find it hard to believe that anyone could p{}SSibly 
expect a Catholic university to actively condone an 
action to which the Church is morally opposed by 
the very foundations of its faith. This falls far out­
side the boundaries to which a university is called to 
provide "academic freedom," because it involves the 
actual instigation of an action diametrically opposed 
to the ideals of this institution and the Church with 
which it is affiliated. If under these circumstances 
Professor Manier. you would not have "snitched,"' 
then you have no place teaching in a discipline con­
cerning the values of science and technology. 
As for the accusation that the Office of Student 
Activities did not conduct a fair hearing and that the 
snitches acted subversively: The Women's Resource 
Center knew exactly who I was. what happep.ed and 
what actions I was taking. lspoke to several board 
members in depth, as I'm sure they would divulge 
this information if asked. It is disappointing that I 
must point this out, Professor Manier, but being a 
professor does not excuse you from doing your 
homework when you draft such an accusatory dia· 
tribe. 
You would have found outthat one Of the articles 
used by the WRC in the "hearing" was a letter writ­
ten by me and given to the WRC by .... asking that 
the Center not be shut down. I guess I'm Just not 
very good at this deceptive snitching thing~ >> 
Catriona F. Wilkie 
• So, WHAT'S MY POINT 
US. needs to rethink policy in dealing with terrorism 
A British madman has declared war on the IJnited States. To get his war off to a good start, he decides to bomb two American embassies, one in Tanzania and one in Kenya. People are hurt, people die, the world is shocked and the United States is angry, to say the least. So, in retaliation, 
=============the U.S. 
decides to bomb a chemi­
Nakasha 
cal plant 
London, suspect­
Ahmad in 
ed of 
------~============~------produc­
ing chemical weapons. Moreover, it bombs a training camp in France, where the leader, John Robinson, is suspected of camping out. 
Does anybody see the U.S. actually bombing London or France, no matter what the circum­stance? But, substitute Khartoum for London. Afghanistan for France, and Osama bin Laden for John Hobinson. That is what hap­pened a month ago. 
Beforfl I sound as though I am advocating the use of terror­ism, or that I believe that the U.S. should stand back and do nothing in the face of overwhelming terrorism, let me say that that is not the case. 
However, I would like to point out the double stan­dard used by the U.S. when dealing with European and 
' Western coun­tries compared to when it deals with Eastern and Third World countries. As I have just pointed out, it seems highly doubtful that the U.S. would ever consider bombing a chemical plant in London because one of its more mani­acal citizens had declared war on us. London is the capital of the United · Kingdom, Khartoum is the capital of Sudan. However. the plant in Khartoum was bombed. 
A month later, thfl bombing has become old news, and the nation is enthralled (or desperately bored) with Clinton and the Monica Lewinsky mat­ter. However, in the limited media debate on the terrorism issue that did exist before the infamous Aug. 17th, virtually nobody commented on the possibility that there might exist a double stan­dard. Most pundits and politicians were more con­cerned on whether the U.S. had used enough force, or whether Clinton had attacked to distract the nation's attention from the Lewinsky matter in a bizarre "Wag the Dog" scenario, or on figuring out how and where bin Laden would strike next. 
Or they talked about growing "Muslim" terror­ism. (Symptomatic of this "terrorism" was the fact that Pakistan made the first "Muslim" atomic bomb several months back. Funny how the American bomb was never the "Christian" bomb and the Soviet bomb was never the "atheist" bomb.) Goody. We were all being lumped together again, and nobody even noticed that perhaps there was simply one terrorist, working on his own or with associates, without the help or support of Muslims in genp,ral. 
There was one more problem with the forceful action that the U.S. took: Because of one man, other innocent people were killed when the U.S. retaliated. The U.S. should light back on terror­ism, but while en·suring that only those truly guilty are hurt or killed. Otherwise, the U.S. simply becomes an institutional terrorist. Instead of dp,feriding itself or fighting back, it hurts inno­cents, people who are not involved in the conflict 
at all. 
Osama bin Laden, if he is responsible for the attacks. should be pun­ished for killing the hundreds in Kenya and Tanzania. They too, wen1 inno­cent workers, and did not deserve to have their lives cut ofT in such a way. Ilow1wer. the U.S. must first be absolutely posi­tivfl and pro­vide proof that he is. indned. behind the attacks. and secondly must go through thfl 
U.N. or some other interna­tional legal body. Assassinating him or captur­ing him. with­out hard proof, will only give other nations more of a rea­son to rnsnnt and dislike the 
U.S. 
Mornover. the U.S. should work with nations likn Sudan and Afghanistan, whenl such activities are supposndly tak­ing placo. After all, a lot of this terrorism is directed against the 

U.S. 
because outsiders feel that it is over­bearing and arrogant. In 


fighting terrorism, let's not prove this opinion right and make the situation worse for ourselves. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a Saint Mary's Political 
Science and English Literature junior studying in Washington. D.C. this semester. Comment~ and 
questions can be sent to nakashaa@hotmail.com. 
Her column appears every other Thursday. The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


r---­
VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, Seprember I 0, 1998 os~£RvER page 11 
• Goo 'N liFE 
Lives of religious inspire, influence 
.It n~nnot be denied that human beings learn from the examples of lhnrr pnnrs. Lessons both good and bad can be taught by high­profile public: figures, or dediral!~d volunteers. As the Catholic ~:hur!'h approad~ns l111: Third Millennium facing an ongoing cleelinc 111 the numlwr of vo('at10ns to the priesthood and religious life, tlwrP is hopn that llw example of priests and sisters will inspire 
================ young people to follow
God's call. There are many surh inspiring priests and
JUII•eA. 

sisters. if people just look. Often they labor in poor areas of a city and are, for the most part, unseen. Or, they continue to nurture
Ferraro 

young minds in Catholic schools, even well after
-----========:...._____ 
reaching retirnment age. The late Sr. M. Agnctis, OSF, was orw such sister. Slw taught in many schools, including St. .John tlw Baptist. South Bend, Indiana. She also acted as sacristan, allowing the girls in her classes to lwlp prepare the church for Mass. dean and deeorate for special liturgies. She nevnr "retired." When lwr teaching days were over, she remairwd at St. .John's as librarian. Tlwn. living in the sisl!1rs' retirement home, she assisted as slw was able with those of her Franciscan community who were in ill-lwalth. Slw shownd those she served how "human" religious were, wlwllwr enjoying a game of "Aggravation" or weeping upon lnarning of the tltmth of one of her students. Sr. M. Martin. FDC, has served as a Daughter of Divine Charity 
r(.)(' 
over 4!i years. Sl.w spent many years teaching, before her supe­
rror·s sPnt her to trarn as a nurse. She spent time ministering to the 
rwedy in Detroit. bnforo returning to teaching. As the only religious 
t.earhing at Corpus Christi School, she continuos to encourage her 
fourth gradn studnnts to love God and serve him faithfully. 
Touching lives in their pre-tnen years is how the examples and inspiration of priests and sisters makes its greatest impression. ChildrPn who attend Mass regularly with their parents may discov­~~r narly. ~hat the .(~o~pels and homily speaks to them through their pastor. Ilw sensrtrv1ty and understanding of priests as youngsters participatn in the Sarmment of Heronciliation can be not just a sourr.e of \'.om fort. but foster an ongoing relationship with God that will allow II is voice to be heard as they grow older. 
Outside the school and parish setting, priests and sisl!1rs can also make an impression: Sr. Mario Therese Chreighton, OP, has been a Dominican for over !iO years. Most people know her as "Teresita," and she is small and spunky by her own admission. Her delightful storil's of' adventures in Central America, as a grade school and high school teacher. and working at the University of N11tre Dame give evid1m1:!' to lwr abiding faith. She has a de1~p affection for the angels. rwxt only to her devotion to the Trinity. She has a true zest for living, whieh originatos in tho charism of her order. She pn~arlws, as did St. Dominie, not so much with words but with action. 
Fr. Knmwth Grabner.esc. is chaplain to tho Midwest Province of I loly Cross Brothnrs. lin has given retreats, and celebrates an extra St.rnday Mass at St. .Joseph Chapel for the many lay people who w.rsh to ~tttnrHI. IIn crnates thought-provoking, colorful posters on l~1s Maerntosh cornputnr that greet congregants as they assemble. I·.arh and nvPry one of his homilies oxpands the readings to touch on <;od's Llllc!'asing love. 
SislPrs I~mmanunl and Mary Magdalen load a somewhat unique l'onlPmplatiV!' life, rnaching out to many lay people. They share fhPir I'Ollntry property with thosn seeking a taste of the eremitic, having conslrurtnd hermitag1~s for retreats in this natural setting. On Sundays, tlwy invite friends and neighbors to Mass and a gct­togetlwr afterward, with co!Tnn, punch and snacks. Twice each month. they have prayer meetings in their rustie chapel, where the group unites in praisn and pntition as tiH~ sun sets. 
Th1•sp t~vo wonum can lm often soon handling the upkeep of their aiTPagn, from mowing the tall grass in the f'ields to performing n~pait·s and painting. Though their community's foundress, Sr. Huth, died somn years ago in a firo, they continue to live her vision of poacefulnoss and prayor. They share everything from their wis­dom to their lunch, and makn all who eome feel weleome. . It may lw argued that these are examples of how every Catholic rs eal.l!~d to sorve (;od. ·1:he public vows of poverty, chastity and obedrnnco, however, gwde the lives of religious in a society which promotns gnwd, immorality and individualism. These vows do not nncnssarily make the struggle easier, but provide a focus that far outshinns any human motivations. This focus on God makes reli­gious lifo and the priesthood so vital, so inspiring-and the need for moro dod icated servants so great. 
.lul_ie II. Fer~·aro ~s the local sales representative for Faith wear. and 1s executwe d1rector of The PIT Troupe theatre company. Her column usually appears every other Wednesday. 
The uiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

The Accepted 
Racism 

Racism is very much alive in today's world, and it is being facilitated by institu­tions that are supposed to stand for enlight­enment and truth. 
This new racism comes in the name of "Diversity" and "Multiculturalism," and it is our very own colleges and universities that bring it to the mainstream in an acceptable way. 
Hacism in not defined as hate for a per­son based on her ethnicity, it is the simple identification of a person by race. 
Universities, in the name of diversity, label college-bound students by their race on a regular basis. In fact, those who don't are often called racist. Instead of looking at a person's thoughts and abilities to find matches for their university, admissions officers identify applicants by their race. That is the very definition of racism. 
Identifying a person based only on race is one of the most immoral acts one can possi­bly take part in. Such an act nullifies the importance of an individual's values. thoughts and personal identity. Giving away one's identity to a larger group renders one helpless to face the world on his own. A person can no longer rely on individual thought if the entire essence of being is placed on race or "blood." 
Univorsity sponsored racism is more insidious than blatant hatred based on the fact that multicultural programs are widely accepted and deemed intellectual. Diversity programs are designed to create tolerance and acceptance of people from different ethnic baekgrounds. Here seems to lie a contradiction. It is quite impossible to teach 
• INDIANA UNIVERSITY 
someone that their identity is based on color and then expect them to become color-blind. 
Many people feel uncomfortablo when they are placed on a campus where there are not many people that share their ethnic background. A common solution, and a short-sighted one at that. is to put more people of minority backgrounds on cam pus, with that particular background as the pri­mary feature for admission. Once again, a racist mentality is thon featured in tlw uni­versity environment. The solution destroys the opportunity for people to become com­fortable with themselves aside from their race. I am not asking people to completely separate themselves from their origins, but for them to keep what is most important­who they arc, not what they are -in the forefront of tlwir identity. 
All is helpless if we ask people to forget themselves and then we attach them wholly to a group. It is complotely illogical to plaro all of one's cards on a particular group that one has absolutely no control over. A per­son has control only over oneself, and dis­regarding this fact can only lead to person­al destruction. 
Therefore, our only hope in search of a racism-free society is to stop thinking in terms of race, and that means the end of "diversity." 
Brent Asseff sophomore, Sorin Hall philosophy and business major September 8, 1998 

Russia needs 
U.S. support 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 
Last week, Hussia entered a state of polit­ical and economic chaos not witnessed since the fall of communism. The ruble has become basically worthless, and barter is now the preferred method of exchange. The Hussian stock market, once the target of significant Western investment, has essen­tially halted trading. Meanwhile, President Boris Ynltsin is struggling simply to main­tain his authority over the nation. 
The Communist-dominated legislative assembly has become increasingly antago­nistic toward Yeltsin, even calling for his resignation on several occasions. The renomination of conservative Viktor Chernomyrdin for the prime minister posi­tion is a tacit admission by Yeltsin that reforms have largely failed. 
Despite the setback of American-style capitalism in Hussia, it is more important than ever that the United States continue to support the fragile Hussian democracy. Although Hussia is economically feeble, the eollapse of the ruble sent global markets tumbling. Furthermore, the presence of thousands of nuclear warheads scattered across the Hussian countryside is more than ample justif'ication for continued American involvement. 
It is also important the United States not attempt to dictate democracy on its terms. In particular, the United States must recast its image of the Communist party. American foreign policy during the Cold War was motivated by a belief that the Communists were bent on world domina­tion. This led to the policy of "containment" as advocated by American diplomat George Kennan. But recent documents released from the Stalinist archives suggest that the Soviet Union's initial objective was merely to create a buffer of loyal states to defend against future aggression. For their part. 
the Soviets were fearful of a Western inva­sion threat that never really existed. Thus, 
the Cold War might have been prevnnted if both sides had preserved a dearer under­standing of the other's objectives. 
This is not to say the Communists always played by the rules. During its 50-year dominance of Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union suspnnded democracies, installod puppet governments and violently quashed protesters on numerous occasions. But Mikhail Gorbachnv's reforms in tlw 1980s were indicative of a more reasonable party platform that included economic decentral­ization and increased personal freedoms. The "new" Communists that scrvn in tht~ legislative assembly have shown themseiV!!S capable of working within a multiparty par­liamentary system. 
The United States should ally itself with the Hussian democracy. regardloss of the party or faction that gains pownl'. In partic­ular, the Communists should not lw vinwod as a political and ideological enemy. If the Communists return to power in Hussia through a fair democl'atic election, the United States should befriend and cooper­ate with their government. The economic health and military stability of the world almost assuredly depend on it. 
This originally ran as a staffeditorial in the Indiana Daily Student at Indiana University. It has been reprinted here cour­tesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. · 



--------------Thursday, September 10, 1998
page 12 
'WE'VE GoT THE WHOLE 
ND Students travel the globe through study abroad opportunities 
majors in either university, while taking two electives at the Notre Dame Center. Students live in the dormitories at the universities with both Irish and international roommates. 
Sophomores with a GPA of 3.3 or higher may apply to Trinity, while those with a 3.0 GPA may apply to the University College­Dublin option. Most students par­ticipate during the junior year, yet students may attend as sophomores. 
AUSTRIA 

Notre Dame's Austria program is open to students who have taken and received at least a "B" grade in intensive German cours­es through the intermediate level. Mostly sophomores participate, taking yearlong courses taught by professors from the University of Innsbruck. The staff also includes Austrian and German students who converse with the Notre Dame group. 
ISRAEL 

Sophomores also have the opportunity to study in Israel dur­ing the spring semester. The pro­gram is located at the Ecumenical Institute for Theological Studies at Tantur, on a hilltop on the road from Jerusalem to Bethlehem. Here, students reside in semi-private rooms. 
JAPAN 

Students interested in the 
Nagoya, Japan program enroll in 
courses through the Center for 
Japanese Studies at Nanzan 
University in Nagoya. A language 
course, as well as three or four 
other classes about Japanese 
society, are mandatory for stu­
dents. 
MEXICO and SPAIN 
Programs in Mexico and Spain 
provide sophomores and juniors 
with an opportunity to become 
proficient in the language and 
culture. Courses are taught in 
Spanish, and students have the 
option of living with families 
rather than in residences. 
Senior Tricia Carroll was one of 
several Notre Dame students who 
spent last spring semester in 
Mexico City. 
"I had experienced Mexico 
before and loved the culture, and 
I desired the opportunity to take 
classes in another language," she 
said."The best part of the semes­
ter was developing relationships 

By KATIE WILHELM 
Scene Writer 
For anyone who has ever dreamed of watching the sun set behind Big Ben or snorkeling in the Great Barrier Reef, Notre Dame may provide the answer. The University takes its students outside the walls of DeBartolo Hall and emerges them in anoth­er culture. Through the many study abroad programs offered, students are able to enlarge their understanding beyond the bor­ders of this campus. 
Notre Dame's study abroad programs span the globe. Fourteen sites are available to students. including: Innsbruck, Austria; Angers, France; Dublin, Ireland; Nagoya, Japan; Mexico City, Mexico; Monterrey, Mexico; Toledo, Spain; Cairo, Egypt; Athens, Greece; Fremantle, Australia; Santiago, Chile; London, England; Jerusalem, IsraP.I; and the Caribbean. 
DUBLIN 

Senior Megan Barry spent last year's fall semester in Dublin. A Program of Liberal Studies major, Barry was able to take courses related to her major as well as experience the Irish culture. 
"My roommates and I would stay up late drinking tea and eat­ing biscuits, and I often went home with them on the week­ends. That's when I thought I saw the true Ireland," Barry said. 
For Barry, the opportunity to study in Dublin could not be missed. 
"I was always interested in Ireland, but hadn't planned on going abroad. But when I found out about this program, I got so excited. Just the chance to go to Ireland completely enthralled me," she said. 
"I always wanted to go there 
[Dublin). because most of my 
family is from Ireland," said 
senior Matt Lynn, who studied in 
Dublin last fall. 
Notre Dame's Dublin program 
includes a curriculum that can 
accommodate students from all 
majors. Students who enroll in 
this program will take courses at 
the Keough-Notre Dame Study 
Center in Dublin and either 
University College-Dublin or 
Trinity College-Dublin. 
Students take classes in their 

'Oh the places you'll see' ..• 
with students from another coun­try," she said. 
Senior Beth Marino, who stud­ied in Toledo, Spain her sopho­more year, shared Carroll's pro­found interest in the Spanish lan­guage. 
"I always wanted to learn to speak Spanish .." she said, "and Europe is where you can find the origins of the Spanish language." 
AUSTRALIA 

A focus on Asia-Pacific Rim Area studies is availabln through the Fremantle, Australia pro­gram. !Juring the first semester, courses are designed for students in the College of Business, while second semester focuses on the College of Arts and Letters. The Australia program has also recently added an Engineering program, combining field intern­ships with courses. The program also looks at issues related to environmental science. 
CHILE 

Courses in Santiago, Chile are administered by the University of Wisconsin and the University of Michigan. Students enrolled in the program take courses at the Pontifica Universidad Catolica, one of the most prestigious uni­versities in South America. Applications for the spring semester are due October 15. 
EGYPT 
Located two blocks from the 

Nile, the American University in 
Cairo is centered on one of the 
busiest squares in Egypt. Notre 
Dame students are integrated 
into classes here. Courses are 
designed for juniors, though some 
sophomores and seniors are eligi­
ble to participate. 
ATHENS The Athens Academic Center offers classroom instruction to students eager to study in Greece. The program combines class­room and museum study. During their stay in Athens, students live in the Kolonaki neighborhood in furnished apartments. 

LONDON 

Perhaps the most popular study abroad program is in London, with one hundred and twenty juniors participating each semes­ter. The program's curriculum encompasses all majors, as well as basic University requirements. A variety of classes have been added to better accommodate business, engineering and science majors. A new summer program for engineers has also been added to the program. Classes are held at the Notre Dame London Centre, located near Trafalgar Square. Students must apply in October of their sopho­more year. 
"I chose London because it is the only program for science majors to participate in and still stay on track," said senior Melissa Tonnesen. "Plus it is one of the programs that don't require knowledge of a foreign language." 
ANGERS 
The final Notre Dame study abroad opportunity offers French majors an opportunity to study in Angers, France. Sophomore and juniors can apply to spend either a year or semester in France. 
"Both my parents studied in Angers and loved it and I had always heard incredible stories about it," said senior Patrick McCorry. 
"The best part was that there were no responsibilities and no worries -the hardest decision was where we were going the 
next weekend," he said. REQUIREMENTS 
Unless otherwise stipulated, candidates for these programs must have a GPA of at least 2.5 with a proficiency in the appro­

priate lanuage. Prog~·anl"S:__~~====~:-:
often require that ... the students have com­pleted in ten­
guage 
cours­es through the intermedi­ate level. The application date for most programs is December 1, though some have October deadlines. 
For more information about any of these programs, contact the oflice of International Study Programs in 109 Hurley. 
Photos courtesy of Melissa T annesen and Chnstine Nardi Far left: NO students Mark Roman, Mary Calsin and Patrick McCorry enjoy Christmas break on the Austrian Alps. 
Middle: Mark Roman, Matt Anderson and Jan MacKenzie tour the French Pyrenees. 
Right: Angela Johnson and Melissa Tonnesen smile for the camera while on a weekend trip to Prague. 
J 

8@ THEn 
Thursday, September 10, 1998 ------------------------CffiSERVER ------------------------------page 13 
WoRLD IN OuR HANDS' 

Students study on the high seas through SMC By JULIA GILLESPIE Scene Writer 
Thinking of study­ing abroad'! Why not visit the home ol' 
the" Fighting Irish?" Or take a tour of the Parthenon? What about spend a wnckend riding on an elephant? For dozens of 
students participat­
ing in Saint Mary's 
three study abroad 
programs, these 
hypothetical questions 
arc transformed into 
reality. 

Saint Mary's College 
study abroad programs 
offer students -primarily 
from Saint Mary's College and 
Notre Dame -the opportunity to 
study in India, Ireland or Home. 
Students of other colleges and universities 
may also apply. 
Gmwral university requirements transfer to the stu­dnnt's college or university. Financial aid given to stu­dents to attend Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is also accnptml for abroad programs. The only exceptions are Notm flame studnnts studying on SMC's Ireland pro­gram, hneause Notrn Dame also offers a similar pro­gram. 
Tht~ lrnland and Hornn programs rnquire students to havt~ a minimum GPA of 2.5, and tho India program n~quires a minimum GI'A of 3.0. Students must also sub­mit lettPrs of rt~eomnwrHiation from their academic advisor, a professor, hall rector and thn OITice of HesideiH:n Lil'!~. 
lhw to tlw gmwralmnphasis on the humanities, these programs attract many Arts and Letters students. Yet each program also contains a variety of students from different academic backgrounds. 
INDIA (SEMESTER AROUND THE 
WORLD) 
The India-Semester Around the World program is available to students every other year, during the fall semester. Students study at Sacred Heart College, a Catholic College in Coachin, India. Saint Mary's College hires natives to teach dass­es that transfer to SMC and Notre Dame. Prominent professors and politir.al figures from surrounding areas lecture students as well. 
Students participating in the India pro­gram study in a variety of settings. They fiy into Japan and then travel to China, Indonesia, Malaysia and, finally, India. 
Students have the extraordinary opportu­nity to see the "Wonders of the World" as they learn about them. The program concludes in Zurich, Switzerland, but students may travel throughout Europe as well. 
"Saint Mary's India-Semester Around the World pro­gram is the most incredible in terms of seeing the the world in one semester," said Notre Dame senior Brian Lacomb. "The program is not only unique for the Notre Dame-Saint Mary's College community. There is no other like it in the United States." 
Dorothy Feigl, dean of the Saint Mary's College faculty, sees it as an "important stepping stone for students interested in the pursuit of further service activities." Many students recognize and respond to the economic and social needs of natives of the Indian community while they fulfill academic requirements, she said. Some students in this program pursue service in pro­grams such as the Peace Corps after graduation. 
IRELAND 
The SMC Ireland Program allows students to study under Irish professors arid among Irish students. Unlike Notre Dame's Dublin program, this learning experience spans an entire year. This is advantageous because many students perceive themselves as tourists for the first semester, but immerse themselves into the culture during their second semester. 
"Students fortunate enough to partake in these pro­grams should seize the opportunity to do so, because they oll'er so much morn than what you can learn in a classroom," said Notre Dame student Maureen Hathweg, partieipant in the Ireland Program. 

The Ireland Program, located at Saint Patrick's College in Maynooth, Ireland, was established in 1977. It is set 14 miles outside of Dublin. Saint Mary's College provides students the opportunity to experience living in a European village with access to the city of Dublin. 
Students may learn more about the SMC Ireland Program at informational meetings on September 9th, October 7th, November 4th and December 2nd. Applications are due December 11th and recommenda­tions are due February 1st. 
ROME 

Founded in 1969, the SMC Home Program continues to flourish due to the overwhelming interest and support of enthusiastic students. Students may participate for an entire year or only a semester. Sixty-three students are leaving to study this fall in Rome. This program attracl<> many Arts and Letters students, but it is possible for stu­dents of other majors to participate if they plan accord­ingly. 
Students interested in more information regarding the Rome program should call Professor Checca, the coun­selor of the Rome Program, at 284-4586. In addition to the standard eligibility requirements, students attending this program must also complete a year of Italian or its equivalent in good standing. 
Bridget Egan, junior student at Saint Mary's College, remembers her experience in the Home Program fondly. "I loved living in an urban community surrounded by ruins," she said. 
She said that these living arrangmnents allownd her to experience the history of the Homan culturn and apply it to !her] own studies. 
Students reflect on their experiences ••• 
'LONDON GAVE l\IE THE
'TIIEitE AHE NO HESI'ONSIIIII.!TIES ANI> NO 'TilE BEST I'AH'I' OF l\1\' EXI'E!UENCE WAS 
'ILOVED LI\'!N(; IN 1\NliH­

ABILITY TO Tit!\VEL NOT 
WOitltli':S. Till•: 111\lmi':ST DECISION \\'AS 
DEVELOI'IN(i HELATIONSIIII'S WlTH STU­
BAN COl\11\ILJNITY Slllt­

ONLY ON TWO ONE-WEEK 
WIIEHE WE WI.:HE (iOIN(i ON NEXT IIHEAK.' 
DENTS IN ANOTIIEH COliNTHY.' 
ROliNDED BY IH IINs.• " 

BHEAKS, BliT ALSO EVEHY
/',!TNu:A· M(.'COIW r, i\Nm:us 
Tuu:J,I C.·IRNOU., MEXIco ern 
IJNI/)(if.'T f.'G,I.V, S:lf(.' IW.Ilf.'
WEEKEND.' 

MELISSA TONNESEN, LONDON 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, September I 0, I 998 

Top pick QBs meet in Colts vs. Pats contest 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 

·The education of Peyton Manning continued Wednesday as hr and the rest of the Indianapolis Colts prepared for another big quarterback match-up. 
The No. 1 draft pick made his NFL debut with future llall of Famer Dan Marino on the opposite side of the field on Sunday. 
This week he'll get to see 1993 No. 1 draft pick Drew Bledsoe and two-time defend­ing AFC Eastern Division cham­pion New England. 
"There's probably nothing
.-.._ 
quite like bring drafted No. 1 as a quarterback," Bledsoe said Wednesday in a teleconference. 
"You step into what is widely recognized as the most di!'licult position in sports. 
Bledsoe, who lost 11 games as a rookie, had some advice for Manning in his first year with a team that compiled a league-worst 3-13 record last year. 

"You've got to be patient. When you get drafted No. 1, you come in and there's going to be a learning curve," Bledsoe said. "Peyton is obvi­ously a very smart guy and is going to know what to do, but at the same time there haven't been any quarterbacks that have come in and been immedi­ately successful." 
Manning had problems in his debut against Miami on Sunday, completing 21 of 37 passes for 302 yards with three interceptions and one touch­down. His quarterback rating of 
58.6 was among the lowest in the AFC. but his passing yardage was third-highest in the league. 
"You realize there are going to be bumps and bruises," he said. 
The Observer accepts classitieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline lor next-day clas­
sitieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classilleds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
r· 

SPEND ALL THAT SUMMER CASH ALREADY?? South Dining Hall Food Market has employment opportunities. 
We offer competitive wages, pay increas­es for returning students, flexible schedules and work incentives. 
Stop by South Dining Hall or call 1-6147 tor more information. 
NEED A JOB? The Food Service Support Facility is looking for stu­dent employees. 
Flexible hours to fit your schedule 6 AM to midnight. $5.95/hr. Call 1-5417 MWF b/w 2-4 or T/Th b/w 11-1. 
WANTED 
I 

Part-time nanny needed for 
one-and-a-half year old boy, 
flexible hours, good pay, phone 631 5181 
TRUMPET, SAX, ELEC.GUITAR AND BASS PLAYERS FOR NO SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @ 1 HR/WK! SPRING TOUR AND MANY OTHER FUN EXPERI­ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573 
Experienced babysitter wl car needed. Various hours. 
289-1529 
NO Prof seeks reliable baby sitter for his 2 and 4 year old children. Flexible Hours, call 282 2553 or 631 8015. 
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... 
2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and ...EARN $$$$. Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Fiorida,Padre! Lowest prices!Free Meals,Parties & Drinks. ••Limited Offer•• 1800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 
"TAKE2" 

Sitter needed for 2 year old. Home locat­ed 5 minutes from campus. Flexible -about 10 hours p/wk. Call Carmen: 234-1744. 
COACHES: ELEMENTARY BOYS+G RLS SOCCER, VOLLEYBALL, BASKETBALL 
responsible,dependable,students or grads to coach 5th-6th grade or 7-8th grade teams.AII seasons open Sept-Oct;Nov­Dec;Jan-Mar for south side elementary school,located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street. Must be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 1:30-2:30 or 2:15­3:15.Game schedule varies with games beginning after school at 4:00-6:00 p.m. Paid position.Call291-4200 to apply. 
SOCCER REFEREES-needed for south side elementary school,located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.$20.00 per game to qualified refs. Call 291-4200 
FORRENT 
r 

1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­PUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272·6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available tor football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80· $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.Toll Road, Exit #1 07,1-800-418-9487. 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY fine home within 10 miles of ND/SMC 219-291­7153 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
FLYNN ND/SMC B&B 
Private home, 10 mins from campus. 3 lovely rooms,one bath.Perfect for families or couples traveling together.Available foot-ball,grad. parents' wkends. $75-95/nt. Call Alice (219)282-2241. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAMPUS. 219-277-6832. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOTBALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAMPUS. 219-277-6832. 
FOR SALE
,___________....
r· 

AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE CARDS $20-198 min. Call 258-4805. 
1987 Saab 900 
5 speed, 1owner, Good Condition. $3000 OBO. Call288-1380 in evenings. 
1976 Kawasaki KZ400 motorcycle. Completely restored. $900 obo. 321-3020 pager, Joe. 
Stuffed Armchair. $15 Call 631-5435. 
TICKETS 
TICKETMART Inc  BEAT MSU!!!  LET THE OLD SCHOOL CLASSIFIEDS  
BUY-SELL-TRADE  BEGIN.  
Notre Dame Football Tickets  SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW!  
258-1111  Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  
No student tickets please  S.Padre.Early bird savings until Oct.  7474505B  
31st. America's best prices and  What Wing?  
packages.Campus sales reps wanted.Earn  Maximum wing, Block Nine.  
FOR SALE  free trips+ cash. 1.BOO.SURFS.UP  Standard Release?  
FOOTBALL TICKETS  www.studentexpress.com  Parole, three out of five, good behavior.  
271-9412  
What's this?  
WANTED  ...ATTENTIO LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXU­ What?  
NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  AL AND QUESTIONING STUDENTs···  This car, this stupid car.  
271-1526  Original student group will hold first general  Where's the Cadillac? The Caddy - 
meeting TONIGHT. Call info line for details  where's the Caddy?  
NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  236-9661.  The what?  
Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  The Cadillac we used to have, the Blues­ 
674-7645  Happy 21st Birthday, Jimmy!  mobile.  
Je t'aime!  I traded it.  
NO Football Tickets Needed.  You traded the Blues-mobile for this?  
AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  No, for a microphone.  
ATTN: FR. MALLOY  A microphone? Okay, I can see that.  
NO FOOTBALL TIX  
FOR SALE  Can you spare some money? The  You don't like it?  
AM 232-2378  restrooms in the basement of south dining  No, I don't like it.  
PM 288-2726  hall are so disgusting. The employees  It's got a cop motor, a 440-cubic-inch  
restrooms cannot even be used because  plant. It's got cop tires, cop suspension, cop  
2 PURDUE GA'S 4 SALE.  they are so disgusting and smelly. The  shocks. It's a model made before catalytic  
908-537-4008.  board of health would love to see them.  converters, so it'll run good on regular gas.  
There are NO handicapped stalls in the  So what do you say, is it the next Blues- 
Needed; tix to Michigan State. Will trade  restrooms either.  mobile?  
tix or a room for one home garrie or pay  Fr. Malloy are you reading this?  
cash. Call Tony at 4-1088.  I don't think you would want to be in the  BILL, you better start looking for a formal  
basement of sdh if you ever had to go.  date.  
But don't worry, I'll let you take SCSA if  
Needed:Two BC tickets.Willing to buy  Yeah, and while your at it, can you fix our  you can't find one.  
OR trade EITHER two Purdue or two  waterfall too.  
Stanford tix.  to all of you who wonder why the classi­ 
Call617-248-7046  Laurie: Hokey Pete!  fleds are so random  
(holy cow!)  
2 PURDUE GA's 4 SALE  it is because at 4 in the morning, we have  
908·537 -4008  mk-glad you got .. well, you know. :)  to fill this  
love, mac  gargantuan  
Need LSU tix  
289-2918  mark-braveheart! beheading! i can't wait!  no, GARGANTUAN  
thanks for the hug  space up with words.  
Always buying and selling N D football  
tickets. 289-8048  melvin and pat, you are cursed with clas­ did you ever wonder why you accidentaliy  
sifieds now. hee hee.  hit the CAPS LOCK button  
Need 5 Purdue GAs  diane-plaster harded in your lungs yet?  is it because you subconsciencky want to  
Call x3501 Eric  emphasize what you are thinking?  
hope not. we'll have to do something  
MICH. ST. TIX NEEDED  about that.  i wonder.  
CALL 634-3192  
hermie-i don't want to touch your udders.  i have senior pictures tomorrow.  
Need Michigan St. Tix  sorry.  
x1943  my dark eye circles will look smashing.  
i'm glad senate is tackling the backpacks  
in SOH issue. i'm glad my voice is heard.  If you'd be interested in reading Tuesday  
morning summaries and commentaries on  
i'm glad. thats all.  Monday night's WCW and WWF action, call  
r  mk-don pablos. can't wait. this office is not condusive to kleenex, dancing, playp  1-4540 and leave a message for either Sarah or Kristi. Really, I'll recap the Warzone.  
And that's the bottom line.  

''
', 

Thursday, September I 0, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
CAMPUS MINISTRY® 
Calendar of Events 
Sankofa Scholars Honors Assembly 
Thursday, September 10, 8:00 p.m. Montgomery Theater 
Latino Mentoring Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 11-12, Five Pines 
NDE Board retreat 
Friday-Saturday, September 11-12, St. Joseph Hall 
Opening of the School Year Mass 
Sunday, September 13 12:30, Joyce Center 
RCIA Sessions 
Sunday, Septeber 13, NO Room in Lafortune. 4:00 p.m. for Candidates and 5:00 p.m. for Sponsors 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshops 
Sunday, September 13, at 3:00 pm Tuesday, September 15, at 10:00pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Lector Workshops 
Sunday, September 13, at 8:00 pm Wednesday, September 16,10:00pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Freshman Retreat #18 (October 9-10) Sign-Up 
Monday-Friday, September 14-18 103 Hesburgh, 112 Badin Hall or see your Rector. 
Emmaus Information Session 
Thursday, September 17, (TBA) 
TWENTY-FOURTH SUNDAY IN ORDINARY TIME Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday,September 12 
5:00p.m. Rev. Richard E. Gribble, C.S.C. 
Sunday, September 13 
Opening of the School Year Mass -JACC 
12:30 p.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. (No Sunday Masses in the Basilica) Vespers: 7:15p.m. Rev. Peter D. Rocca, C.S.C. Scripture Readings 
1st Reading  Exodus 32  7-11,13-14  
2nd Reading  Timothy 1  12-17  
Gospel  Luke 15  1-32 or 15:1-10  

(j 

ARE YOU SETTLED? 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
a 

A year ago, at this time, I was the new rector in Zahrn Hall. In the first month of school last year many asked if I was all moved in. While I most often said "yes," that did not accurately describe the reality. Although I was, ~ in some literal sense, moved in, I have since come to appreciate the impor­tant distinction between being moved in and feeling settled. For a number ~ of reasons I felt far from settled for a long time. It actually had little to do with the fact that I hadn't quite worked out a new filing system or found the 
~ 

perfect place for those prized photos of friends and family. The reality had more to do with the fact that I didn't know a lot of the guys and I hadn't quite worked out a routine. No two days were the same in those first weeks. 
~ 

I'm sure it had everything to do with the fact that I was new at this Rector thing, or that Campus Ministry was keeping me hopping, but some days I felt like a bumper pool ball, bouncing from one thing to another with little ~ control over where I'd end up next. 
I have little doubt that many of you have found yourselves enduring the ~ same sensation and longing for a routine, particularly where academics are concerned, so that you can be about some of the seemingly more important things that you carne to college to do. I know that when I get together with ~ college friends these days, fourteen years after the fact, we don't speak pri­marily about what went on in the classroom, however hard that may be to hear for even my favorite professors. More often, we talk about the rest of 
~ 

life, that which happened outside of the classroom. My experience last year made me realize that if I am not attentive to my own schedule, organize my 
~ 

time and prioritize my activities, these precious days will get away from me. At the end of an all too often typical day I found myself wondering why I didn't take any time for exercise, or why I didn't spend some time at the 
a 

grotto, or why I didn't take a minute to just kick back with friends. I find myself more determined than ever not to let these days be less than they could be, or less than God would have them be. 
~ 

For three years I had the great privilege of being rector of the London Program. During that time, I was often suprised by the frustration that some 
~ 

of the students felt because they didn't feel like they were having the kind of experience that their friends who had been to London had described upon 
• 

their return. I find myself wondering if I don't have something to learn now 
•

from the advice that I gave them then. It wasn't then, and isn't now, about some incredible "Notre Dame Moment." God graces every moment. .. and so • it's about every moment. It's about being attentive to the giftedness of our lives wherever we are... in the classroom, in the dining hall, on the quad, in the halls. And it's about taking time to consider and reflect upon these days even in the midst of them. I've become convinced that it is only upon reflec­tion that we really experience anything. Those London program students who came back and raved about their experiences had not only the advan­tage of the entire experience but also some time for reflection upon it. All I could do for the frustrated London student was to encourage them to live the moment, and to take some quiet time alone to revel in the remarkable opportunity that was theirs. It is the best advice I can offer here as well, for you and for me. 
ln the end, it is that time that we spend alone that disposes us best for prayer. Whether we are moved in such moments by gratitude, or need, or love, or pain, it is then that we know best what we wish to bring before God. It is in just such moments that we get to know the person that we are becom­ing, and move ever closer to the person that we long to be. The settledness that we seek lies somewhere in the quiet. It's somewhere in that time alone. Whether it be in a walk around the lakes, or some time at the grotto, or in those rare moments when you may actually have your room to yourself, we need to pause and pray; lest our lives get away from us and we never really know what we have here until we're gone. 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 



~~---... ~-~------_...._.-~--------_,-...._..-­

All we'd like to do is shake up your thinking and broaden your outlook. Then it's your turn. 
It's all about making an impact. Andersen Consulting Career Night-September 14. 7:00p.m. to 9:00p.m. 101 DeBartolo Hall-Casual Attire General Information Session: 7:00 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. Small Group Discussions: 7:30 p.m. to 9:00 p.m. Submit a resume and personal data sheet to Career and Placement by September 15. 
People who look at things from all sides have the ability to gain a whole new perspective. As a leading global management and technology consulting organization, those are just the kind of thinkers we're looking for. 
After all, we use fresh insights to help clients develop strategies that deliver profound change. We work with them to unlock their potential for success by aligning strategy with people, processes and technology-an approach that allows you to make an impact from the ground up. 
We'll provide first-rate training and guidance, and exposure to a variety of projects and industries. All of which builds a solid foundation for your future. 
Don't miss the chance to hear more about a career with Andersen Consulting. If you're seeking the unexpected, we'll be expecting you. 
Visit our Web site at www.ac.com 
"'fc Andersen
ilConsulting 

"1998 And<rs<n Consulting. All rights r<s<rv<d. An <qual opportunity <mploy<r. 
Thursday, Sepremher I 0, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS SPORTS page 21 
c___c:______ 

• 'F"'S Vou... fVUiH.L 
Belles' hitters drop fifth-straight match to Flying Dutch 
By KATIE Fl!RMAN 
~port.\ Writer 
/\s llw nPw gym floor at /\ngl'la /\thldi<' J."adlil.y glim­l!lf'I'Pd with till' Saini Mary's logo, tlw lkiiP's voiiPyhall tParn hPadPd to llopP CoiiPgP to battiP tlu~ Flying Dutch. 
Tlu· BPIIPs droppnd llwir lif'th­straight match in thPir f'ifth­slraighl away match with thP srorPs ol' 15-1 :~. 15-(> and 15-5 
/\l'tPr winning its lirst match against Manrhstnr CollngP last wonk. tlw Bnl!Ps havn been unablf' to bring homn a victory. Tlwir rncord now stands at a dismal 1-5. 
Coat:lwd by Jcnnin Joyce, the tnam lwadf'd to I lope, wishing to crasn tlwir 0-4 wnnknnd drought at tiH~ Kalamazoo College llornnt Invitational. 
Coach Joyce declined to eom­mnnt on the game. 
Though the Belles fought until thn end and snveral playcrs had rnsp~~~~table stats, they w1~rc unabln to capitalize. 
The Belles ganw was high­lighted by junior Agnes Bill, who led the team with seven kills. Slw has led thn tcam in kills thn last two seasons. 
Bill shared the dig title with freshman Angie Moyers, as thcy both tallied nine spikes. Junior Jayne Ozbolt jumped to success as she topped the team with seven blocks, and sophomore Megan Jardina compiled two service aces. 
Greeting the Bells with gri­maces was thn Hope attack led by senior middle hittnr and 1997 MVP Becky Schmidt. Returning scnior outside hitter and All­MIAA First Team player, lleather Yelling was also a threat for Saint Mary's. 
After posting a 28-4 overall record last year and a 7-0 record this year, the Flying Dutch imposed as a difficult opponent. 
Ready to pounce on the rest of their opponents as they did Wednesday night, the Flying Dutch are looking to claim their third MlAA championship title in as many y1mrs, carrying a tnam built around tlwir ni1w returning lettl~r winners from last ynar. 
Thn Hope squad was guidnd by head coach, Maureen Odland. who, in her first year as lwad coach in 1997, took thmn to the MIAA Championship and quali­fied for thr NCAA playofls. 
Thc Belles rflpeated thflir recent history against Bethel, losing in three straight sets. The team will try to rebuild its early toppled season in its next match. 

-

l• 


page 21 Thursday, September 10, 1998
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
-.J 
student union 
HAPPENINti§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Titanic. 

09/10. 09/11. 09/12.  Thursday. Friday. Saturday.  Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium. Cushing Auditorium.  1030PM. 0700PM & 1 030PM. 0700PM & 1 030PM.  Tickets: $2. Free Carnations Friday for InterAction Weeks.  
Acousticafe. 09/10.  Thursday.  Lafortune Huddle.  0900PM-1200AM.  
HPC (HALL PRESIDENT§' COUNCIL]  
InterAction Weeks. 09/06-09/19. 09/06-09/19. 09/14. 09/14-09/17.  Sunday-Saturday. Sunday-Saturday. Monday. Monday-Thursday.  Everywhere. Cinemark Movies 1 0. Garfield's @ UP Mall. Olive Garden. Chilis.  24/7. All Shows $3. 75. 20% off entire bill, limit onNever Ending Pasta Bowl: Fajita Dinner for 2: $1 0. 0900PM-1200AM.  e discount per ID. $6.95. All-you-can-bowl: $5.  
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL]  
AASA Movie Night. 09/11.  Friday.  
BSU Meeting. 09/13.  Sunday.  esc.  0300PM-0400PM.  
NDCIBD (Notre Dame Council of International Business Developme09/14. Monday. See www.nd.edu/-ndcib nt). d  First set of divisional mee tings.  
CLASS OF 1999  
Graffiti Dance & Dinner. 09/16. Wednesday.  Alumni-Senior Club.  0700PM-0830PM.  
CLASS OF ~000  
Bus Trip to ND-MSU Game. 09/12. Saturday.  
ALL CLASSES  
Mass: Formal Opening of the School Year. 09/13. Sunday.  
STUDENT liOIIERNMENT  
Saferide. 631-9888. 09/03. 09/04. 09/05.  Thursday. Friday. Saturday.  Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is. Where the Action Is.  1 OOOPM-0200AM. 1 OOOPM-0300AM. 1 OOOPM-0300AM.  
0  •••  
 
 

Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 

~~·008000088000800008800080000090008000088000800008800080000 



r------------------~---­
Thursday, September I 0, 1998 LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD ND 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 10, 19'l8 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Karl Lagerfeld, Amy Irving, Jogr Fdiciano, Roger Maris 
llappy Birthday: You art• coming mtc1 a period of prosperity nPd 1\rowth Now is the time to go atter :vour dreams and aspirations. You can achi<·ve if you are willing lo put )'Our talent, beliefs and energv In the test and l'ush forward and onward to the l•nJ Jf the successfuL You must not lei othe" hold you back, for this is a year to selfishly focus on yourself and your direction. Your numbt~rs: 5, 10, i9, 24, 33,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): You can do extremely well professionally. New jobs or projects will spark the 
enthusiasm that you've been lacking lately. Let your energetic attitude take over. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You may be a tiny bit emotional today; however, if you spend quality time with your lover or family, ali will be well. You can make physical improve­ments successfully today. 000 

GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Some­one may be holding back some vital information. Try to work on your own. Co-workers may try to take credit for your great ideas. Expecta­tions mav be unrealistic. 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): You can get help if you just ask for it. Friends and relatives will gravitate to your side offering sound advice and any other form of assistance that you may require. 0000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Changes regarding work may not appear to be in your favor at first. Try not to show your disappointment or annoyance and rewards are sure to come your 
Birthday Baby: You are so intent on doing your own thing that it will be

WORI\ 1-\ARDER OR I'LL 
REALLY 7 I TI-\OUGI-\T 15 TI-\E BOX 
hard for others to lead you astra\'. You're a born leader and a crusad<•r for wor· thy causes and those who can't fight for themselves. You have a lair way of dealing with others and in tum you expect the same from those you encounter. 
(Need advice? Call Eugenia at 90<1-484-7827. Your phone company will bill you $1.99 per minute.) © 1Q9H lim\'t'r"i<11 Pn~!-Svndicatl' 
CARPET SAMPLES. I'M 1tiiNKtN6 

ABoUT REDol!'-1(, THE uPSTAtRS ~---· BEDRooMS. 
I 

DILBERT 

--~-----------­
The Observer • TODAY page 23 DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
way in the long run. 00 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Your 
creative juices will be flowin!l today. 
You ran get others mtl•resh.•d in your 
work. Don't hesitate to sign up h•r 
seminars or other courst'S of inten.·st. 
00000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0cl. 22): Money· 
making ventures will be very Iuera· 
live. Don't let delays alarm you. Any 
changes that occur with regards to 
your livin!l quarters will be most 
enjoyable. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Sud­
den romantic infatuations may st'nd 
you for a loop. You must take your 
time if you wish things to work in 
your favor. You must be honest and 
direct in order to set• the best results. 
000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
You will be highly successful at work 
today. Voice your opinions, roll up 
vour sleeves and work with those 
under you in order to get a job com· 
pleted.OOO 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): 
Your aggressive nature will lead you 
to the winner's circle. You will enjoy 
sports events with friends and can 
make professional gains if you social· 
•ize with clients. 00000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): Real estate investments will bring big dividends. You will be able lo ulilize your hidden assets. Don't let family members slifle your good intentions. 00 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Edu­cational pursuits will lead to a widt•r circle of friends. The additional knowledge that you gain will also aid you in your philosophical viewpoints. 0000 

Crossw-ord 
Edited by Will Shortz No. 0529 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 12 Org. for Gale Yarborough -=+±'+"'-f"'"' 13 Swear (to) 
18 School erg. 35 Kind of club 37 Attack dog 23 Stew item command 
24 Professional grp. 39 Assenting vote 25 Hound hotel 40 Leave-taking 29 Objects of 41 Spirit worship 44 Ran into 30 One-man Broadway hit of 45 Go back (on) 1990 46 Didn't act 
31 Like some tea subtly 
34 Saucer's 47 Word of caution contents, for 49 Ground short 52 In the stomach 
67 "Rosemary's Baby" author 68 Shade trees 69 Shangri-la 10 Fashion 71 Stave 
DOWN 
1 Coiled hairdo 2 Judge in 1995 
news 3 Tries to please 4 Treat unfairly, in 
slang 5 E.M.T. skill 6 Paged 1 Novelist Seton a Leave in after all 9 Rauen 
recreation spot 10 Katmandu's land 1-::-::-+--+-+-­11 Peaceful 


Make checks payable to: The Observer
The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year
is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $45 for one semester
Community. Name ____________________________________________ _ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ________________________________________found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City----------State _______ Zip______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. 
Join The Observer staff, 024 South Dining Hall 
BILL AMEND 
ISN'T  SPEAI<tNG oF lllE  
IT?  1qBos, WHEN  
I  WAS 'n-IE LAST  
TIME YoU  
VACUUMED  

IN lliERE? 
SCOTT ADAMS 

54 High school 58 Standout subj. 
59 PC command 55 Malone of the 63 Ill. neighbor 
N.BA 
64 Singer Sumac 57 Send a Dear 65 Superlative John letter suffix 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762·1665 
ACROSS 
1 Some pens 
5 Join, as hands 10 Ship of 1492 14 Zion National 
Park locale 15 Prefix with -gon 16 Part of Q.E.D. 11 "Never!" 
19 Bother 20 Newt 21 "Never!" 23 Share (In) 26 Rap sheet word 27 Double curve 28 Mrs. Bunker 
and others 32 PC accessory 33 Opposite of 
ahead 
36 Dirndl or sari 38 "Never!" 42 Gird (oneself) 43 Soothe 45 Civil War soldier 48 Popular cruise 
destination 50"Norma--" 51 Arabian 
Peninsula leader 53 It may be found in a table 56 "Never'" &oAt once 61 Aftaires d'­62 "Never!" 66 Winger co-star, 1982 
.. 







• McGwire' s record­
• Alomar's three-run­setting ball arrives at 
homer gives Orioles sec­

Cooperstown. 
ond straight win after losing streak. 

PORTS 
p.l9 
p.17 
O THE 

----------------Thursday, September 10, 1998
page 24 BSERVER 



Grubb steals award for defensive excellence 
By BRIAN KESSLER honors along with her teammate "Grubb is really going to have Assisr.tnt Sports Editor Kate Sobrero. She also tallied 13 to take over our defense where­assists and two goals last season as in the past Kate Sobrero did Earlier this week. junior co­while playing in and starting 24 that," head coach Chris captain Jen Grubb was named out of 25 of the team's games. Petrucelli said earlier this sea­Big East defensive player of the Yet, it is not just her impres­son. "As the veteran in the back, week for the third time of her sive individual slats that set her she has become more of a leader career. apart from other defenders in for us and she is going to have to 
Being in the spotlight, howev­the country. Grubb brings the be. " er, is nothing new to the ll'ish whole package. So far, Grubb has exceeded star defender. Last season, Grubb and expectations. 
-
Grubb is a finalist for the 1998 Sobrero anchored the Irish 'D,' a In Notre Dame's four games, Hermann Trophy, which honors defense that only allowed 45 including an exhibition match the most outstanding male and shots last season and recorded against Ohio State, the defense, female collegiate soccer players. 18 shutouts. With the loss of which sophomore forward Last season. Grubb earned Sobrero to graduation, it's now Mentis Erikson refers to as "the 
NSCAA first team all-American Grubb's defense. best defense in the country," has shutout three opponents and allowed just one goal. 
In the team's three regular season games, Grubb and the defense has allowed only 10 shots. 
In addition, Grubb has helped kickstart an Irish offense that has outscored its opponents 20­
1. So far this season, Grubb has dished out four assists. including three in last Sunday's game against Pittsburgh. 
The three-assist game, howev­er, was not her best individual performance. 
Last season, the all-Big East player tied a Notre Dame record with four first-half assists in a game against Wisconsin. In that game, she also scored a goal and 
The uoservemJo>nn 

finished with a career game-high Jen Grubb was named Big East defensive player of the week, an six points. coach Petrucelli hopes she will take an even greater leadership role. 
At the end of the season, she was declared a finalist for the Norway in the U.S. Cup in 1995. that tied Holland and defeated Missouri Athletic Club Sports Grubb scored the game winner Finland. Foundation Collegiate Player of in sudden death of the bronze This weekend, however, the 
the Year. medal game against Germany in Irish will go head-to-head 
Notre Dame is not the only the 1996 Under-20 Nordic Cup. against many of Grubb's team­team to benefit from Grubb's In 1997, Grubb helped anchor mates on the U.S. team, when leadership and outstanding play, the defense, playing every they take on North Carolina. however. minute of every game, for the Notre Dame will need Grubb's 
Grubb has made 11 appear­Under-20 Nordic Cup team that leadership and ability when they ances for the U.S. National team. captured the gold. go up against the No. 1 team in She recorded the assist on the This summer, she captained the country. Grubb is sure to beJen Grubb's outstanding play has earned her 11 
game-winning goal against the U.S. under-20 national team in the spotlight again. 
U.S. national team. 
• MEw's Cnoss CtwNrnv 
Sophomore runner Shay strides extra mile 
By ALAN WASIELEWSKI campus last year, winning his Country Championships in Sports Writer first two meets at the Marrakech, Morocco. He fin­Scarlet/Gray Invitational and ished 20th out of 200 runners 
Defining moments are some­the National Catholic competi­and was the first runner not times hard to pinpoint in athlet­tion. hailing from the traditionally ics. Athletes are always pushing While impressive, these victo­dominant African countries to themselves beyond the goal ries did not satisfy Shay and his cross the finish line. they just achieved. lofty goals. "It was a great experience -­
Championships result in a "I wanted to finish as an All­to be able to compete and learn need to repeat. Second place American last year and that is from the elite runners in the finishes demand a goal of first definitely my goal again in sport was around and I got a place at the next competition. 1998,'' he said. taste of international competi­Athletes never really stop to Setting such high goals is tion," Shay said of his time on reflect on achievements while nothing new for Shay. He was the national team. their career is in its prime. the first person in Michigan Shay also formed some 
Ryan Shay has passed many boys cross country history to unusual relationships in his defining moments in his career win four consecutive state time on the national team. and has not looked back yet. titles. "There was a friendly bond Shay, a sophomore from "Central Lake was a small on the team between the run­Central Lake, Mich., is antici­school with a history of individ­ners and now we find ourselves pating more great moments in ual championships," Shay running against each other this 1998 to strengthen an already explained. "My older brother season," he said .. impressive record for coach Joe Case won the two years before I Shay should be able to turn Piane and the men's cross did." his experience over the sum­country team. Ryan would continue his pat­mer into even better finishes 
Shay made his presence felt tern of firsts this summer run­immediately when arriving on ning at the World Junior Cross see SHAY/ page 20 
Cross Country Soccer

at Michigan State vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler
Saturday, 7 p.m. at Washington U. Saturday, 11 a.m Saturday, 1 p.m. 
SPORTS 
ATA 

vs Duke Volleyball
at Valparaiso 

at Chapel Hill, N.C. at Ohio Northern Tourney
September 1, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 

Friday, 5 p.m. Tomorrow, 3:30p.m. 


