
---------------------------~-------.------~----~--------~ ------------------~----------------------------~----­
• Violence continues in Albania between 
• What will replace Seinfeld? Scene reviews this fall's 
Tuesday

government and insurgent forces. 
crop of new network shows, as well as some old favorites. 
SEPTEMBER 

World and Nation • 5 
Scene·12-13 
15, 1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 15 WWW. N D.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Safety Tony Driver leaves school, returns home 
By ALLISON KRILLA mistakes, and play again." ing in all 13 games with the spedal 
Associate Sports Editor Recruited as a tailback, the 6-teams unit and in short-yardage foot-2, 21 0-pound sophomore was and goal-line situations. i\s a fn~sh­moved to defense after the first five man, Driver carried the ball 35
Aeeording to four Notre Dame 1998 spring workouts. times for 125 yards, and averagedfootball players, sophomore strong 
19.5 yards per kickoll'n~tum.

safety Tony Drivnr left the universi­i\ft1~r completing his senior season 
ty indefinitely, returning to his at Male lligh School, Driver
home in Louisvilln, Ky., before yes­'HE LEFT TO GO HOME, receiw~d Parade, HePbok and first­terday's afternoon practice session. 
team US/\ Today prPp all-i\meriea"II!) left to go horne, to be with his TO BE WITH HIS FAM-accolades, and was ranked as thefamily," said Driver's roommate 

ILY.' nation's l'ifth best prospect by
and Irish defensive end Jason 
Chicago Sun-Times. 

Ching. "Wn didn't talk about the University officials expressnd nodetails." 
JASON CmNG 
knowlndge of Driver's departure.

Driver's departure comes in the 
!JUS/I DEFENSIVE END AND "''m not awarn of any specifics

wake of Saturday's devastating 45­
DRIVER's ROOMATE concerning the situation," said

23 loss to Michigan State, in which 
Notre Dame Sports Information

lw registered seven tackles follow­Director .John lleisler. · 
ing starling strong safety Benny 
"I don't think he liked the coach­"I haven't !ward anything aboutGuilboaux's early-game knee injury. 
es," said a player requesting it," Din~clor of Public Helations and"We have a lot of guys who really 
anonymity. "For a long time he Information Dennis Moore com­want to win," Driver told the 
didn't like the fact that he switched mented.
Chicago Tribune following the 
positions." Defensive coordinator Gregdefeat. "''m a guy who really wants Driver was one of six freshmen to Mattison dedined to eomnwnt onto win. This is a little setback. 
earn a monogram in 1997, appear-the situation.
"Only thing to do is learn from our 

Bradley discusses media, democracy 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
N~w~ Writ~l 


Experts predict further growth of endowment despite market turmoil 
SPnator Bill Bradlny spoke last night about tho development of American democracy and outlined tho possibll' solutions to current issues in American politics. llr addrossed eoneerns ranging from spe­dal-intl~mst influence to media bias. 
"While many !politicians! are scrupulously hon­Pst," Bradh•y said, "tlwy'm trappod in a system that rnakns it han! to be honest." 
/\!though Bradley praised increased suffrage among Arrwl'ieans over the 19th and 20th centuries, he ~:xpressod concnrn regarding Amoriean voters' dec:n~ased interrst in polities. Citing theories of sev­eral historians. Hradlny commented that roform is possible only through expnrimentation by leaders and voters. 
"Today, instead of open conversation, WI~ defend our own poliliral tm-ritory," said Bradltly. "We hesi­tatP to rhalleng<' any group with more than a 50% majority in the polls." 
Bradley ITitit:ized the incmased in flue nee of rnonflY in politks, noting that in his own district. it takes a eandidatl' about seven million dollars to run a cam­paign. Sll!:h campaigning he said, wastes candi­dates" lime as thny try to raise funds rather than address problmns. · · 
This "dialing for dollars" prevails in both political partins and msull.:; in mom taxes for private citizflns, aceording to Bradley. i\s special interests receive tax breaks and subsidiHs in return for campaign funds, the Amerkan public must piek up the loss in tax rev­enue. 
Addressing the role of media in American politics, Bradloy said, "!The medial rarely give eontext for understanding public decisions." He noted that while murders dropped 20 percent between 1993 and 19%, media eoverage uf murders rose 720 percent. 
Bradley also believos that tlw media allows extremists to manipulate the public, because reporters focus on sensational stories rather than ndtwating rMdors and reporting facts. Today, he said. tho media has so much access to political ean­didates' personal lives that good politicians have bHeonw afraid to run for ollice. 
see BRADLEY I page 4 

By DEREK BETCHER 
A<Sistant News Editor 
The Notre Dame endowment grew I0 per cent to $1.8 billion during the first half of 1998 and stands ready to continue appreci­ating despite the stock market's recent volatility, aceording to asso­ciate vice prnsident for tinanee and investment Scott Malpass. 
"The endowmPnt is very well diversified with private invest­ments and a stock market down­turn affects us only modestly. We'n~ very well diversil'ied," Malpass said. 
Thn University's endowment finances most or its scholarships, many of its faculty positions and makes a significant contribution to the annual operating budget, thereby slowing increases in tuition costs. 
Notn~ Dame community mem­bers should not fear a weakened impact from the endowment in the event of a stock market downturn. The fund has been structured to payout consistently even in the most bearish of markets. In fact, only 30 pnr cent of the fund's total value lies in U.S. stocks and equi­ties. Bonds, international equities, real estate and other investments round out Notre Dame's portfolio. 
"We've had extraordinary suc­cess in the capital markets for the last 10 years, so it would take sev­eral consecutive bad years Na sig­nificant global depression N to hurt things," Malpass said. Notre Dame's Investment Oflice sees lit­tle cause for concern. 
"To be honest, there's no reason for our market to be down," Malpass said, citing strong domes­tic economic fundamentals like low inflation and low unemployment. Malpass did admit to legitimate concerns regarding the global economy, but remained optimistic. 
"We're investors, not speculators or day traders," Malpass empha­sized. "Market corrections are a part of an investor's life. If you have a downturn, we're prepared for our payout to maintain a con­sistent level." 
Planners intend only to spend live per cent of the endowment's real returns (growth minus infla­tion) annually. 
"The purpose of having an endowment is to spread the money equally over limo," Malpass said. Perpetuity, he emphasiwd, is the key concern when planning 
see MONEY/ page 4 

Notre Dame's Diverse Endowment 
Total Endowment Value: $1.8 billion 





I I 
I 
r 
! 
I ! 
page 2 
• INSIDE CoLUMN 


Coincidence? I think not. 
Ah yes ... today has finally arrived. It is 
the 15th day of September. This day 
marks a significant event in my life. 
Indeed, it is the anniversary of the begin­
ning of my life, out­
side of my dear moth-C.R. Teodoro 
er's womb. Yes, today Illustrations Editor 
is my birthday. 
Incidentally, in the calendar of the Roman 
Catholic Church. it is also the Feast of Our 
Lady of Sorrows. Coincidence? I think not. 
But this year marks a milestone that the 
young people of our society eagerly await; 
this.year marks the completion of my 21st 
year of existence. Yes, I am now 21 years 
of age. Now it can be assumed that I will 
go out tonight and partake of my newly 
acquired privilege to drink alcoholic bev­
erages. 
Of course, I will not deny that I will go 
on a beer run; however, I will most likely 
not drink. In fact, I have not drunk alcohol 
since the spring semester of my freshman 
year (okay, you may count the time last 
spring at my friend's house where we 
were watching the final episode of 
Seinfeld. But I didn't even finish one half 
of a can that night, though I did do some 
things that might have led people to 
believe that I was drunk). 
Now if we ignore that I do take part of 
the sacramental wine, then the last time I 
had an alcoholic beverage would be 
January 24, 1997. Yes, I remember it well. 
It was a Killian's Red. and I did finish the 
bottle. though I did so only after a few 
hours' time. Fortunately, there were no ill 
effects that night. 
The next evening, I decided to test 
myself, for imbibing two beers in two 
nights was quite a step for me; this time it 
was a can of Icehouse. When I drank this 
beverage, I noticed a slightly higher alco­
hol content, but I did not think much of it. 
Later that night, the single beer must have 
gotten to me, since I almost got into a 
fight with my friend, Kevin. 
Nothing serious came about; I just 
jumped on his back, and he swung me 
around. Then I went running in the snow 
under the midnight sky to get the alcohol 
out of my system. It was then that I 
learned a very valuable lesson: my body is 
a temple, not to be defiled by the sacrile­
gious act of consuming alcohol. 
Now I will go on beer runs, but I will do 
so only for my friends who, unfortunately, 
do not have the same priviledge as I. But I 
will celebrate my 21st nonetheless, 
because now I am of legal age to buy vari­
ous martial art weapons. Yes, I already 
have a few toys at my disposal, but now I 
can actually get a real Chinese 
broadsword to practice with instead of a 
wooden one. I am in my rights to purchase 
a pair of butterny swords if I so desire. 
Even a three-sectional staff... oh boy ... that 
ought to be fun. I already have a reputa­
tion of being a bit crazy and quite profi­
cient in martial arts. But think how much 
more dangerous I can be once I acquire 
these new toys to play with. 
And just think. this is all on the Feast of 
Our Lady of Sorrows. Coincidence? I think 
not. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

The Observer • INSIDE Tuesday, September 15, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Harvard rapist bargains for leniency, probation 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

For months prosecutors and Harvard administrators have remained silent in the rape case of junior Joshua Elster as the discovery slowly progressed toward trial. Then, in a rapid turn of events, at a routine status hearing, Elster faced the judge, raised his right hand and professed his guilt under oath. 
The plea reversal came after 11th hour discussions between the assis­tant district attorney, the victim and her family about possible ways to avoid a public trial. With Elster and his attorney they devised an agree­ment to recommend to the judge. In exchange for pleading guilty to all six counts, Elster received no jail time and three years probation -a sen­tence some in the legal community characterized as lighter than expect­ed. 
"Most people who plead guilty to 
• UNIVERSITY CALIFORNIA AT BERKElY 
Students protest for affirmative action 
The Coalition to Defend Affirmation Action By Any Means Necessary held a forum last night in defense of affirmative action and in support of the Oct. 21 and 22 university-wide walkout. More than 75 professors and stu­dents participated in the forum which featured UCLA pro­fessor and walkout organizer Rafael Perez-Torres, UC Berkeley Professor Alfred Arteaga, UC Davis student sena­tor Edgar Chen, African Diaspora Studies graduate stu­dent instructor Mattie Richardson and BAMN member Tani Kappner. Perez-Torres urged students and profes­sors to take a stand and voice their support for affirmative action. "Get the word out to as many professors as you can to sign up for the walkout and teach-ins to add their names to a call for action," Perez-Torres said. He added that the UC Board of Regents, who voted in 1995 to ban affirmative action, needs to be aware of the result of their highly controversial decision. "Let the regents know that their actions have consequences as far as professors are concerned and we cannot accept what they are doing." 
• WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY 
Athletic department buys class notes 
A junior business major who spoke on condition of anonymity said she was paid by the athletic department to photocopy her religion and theater class notes and give them to an athletic department employee. It was her understanding that these notes would be distributed to varsity basketball athletes in her classes. "The department paid me $25 a week to photocopy my notes for the athletes in my class," the junior said. The stu­dent received university-issued paychecks through the athletic department for photocopying her notes each week and leaving the copies with a female employee in that department. Ron Wellman, the director of the ath­letic department, ·said that if such activities do take place they are not violations of NCAA regulations. "It shouldn't constitute a violation of NCAA rules. We pro­vide tutors and similar services, this should be consid­ered as one of those," Wellman said. An NCAA repre­sentative said the issue is considered a "gray issue." 
• SOUTH Bnm WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
/r· .. , .... ' 

f''······ 
H L Tuesday 79 65 

According to Assistant District Attorney Thomas O'Reilly, the prose­cution agreed to the arrangement to protect the victim from being "revic­timized" during testimony. 
"She wanted the defendant to admit he did it and leave her alone and stay away from Harvard," says O'Reilly. "This young lady wants to get on with her life and finish her education. That is why the complainant has accepted this recommendation." 

Tuesday's temperatures 
.·-""' 
• COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY 
Columbia says Clinton should stay 
Columbia students joined the political arena this week when they sought answers to the qui\Stion that has made national headlines for the past few months: Should President Clinton be impeached? In a Spectator telephone poll, 64 percent of students answered "no." while 36 per cent felt he should have to leave office for his dealings with former White House intern Monica Lewinsky. The poll also revealed that the majority of those surveyed, 72 per cent, do not think Clinton's per­sonal life is relevant to the presidency. The poll sur­veyed 50 students. "My opinion of his character has changed, but not of his abilities," one Columbia College senior said. Student opinion on the matter seems not to have been affected by the case's recent developm1-mts. In a similar Spectator poll from last January, 75 per cent of students said Clinton ·s private life should not be an issue in his presidency. "If he is doing a good job with the country, it doesn't matter what he is doing in his bedroom," said sophomore Hache! Augustin. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT AUSTIN 
Binge drinking on the rise, study finds 
Despite nationwide efforts to combat binge drinking on college campuses, a new study shows there is an increase in alcohol abuse among students. The report released Thursday by the College of Alcohol Studies at Harvard University states more students are choosing not to drink alcohol, but at the same time those who consume aleohol are drinking more intensely. Overall, 42.7 per cent of the 14,521 students surveyed reported to be binge drinkers­down 2 percent from 1993. But one-third more students in 1997 said they "drank to get drunk." "It's the 'drinking to get drunk' pattern that has been a continuing prob­lem," said Henry Wechsler, the primary investigator for the study. "I am disappointed to see it continuing. Many colleges are talking about policies. but so far there has been no change." But James Vick, vice president of stu­dent affairs, said the University has several programs in place to prevent drinking and educate students about its effects. "We have a very active health program," he said. 
Many experts say this type of deal is not atypical, because after the trau­ma of rape, many victims choose not to publicly relive their experiences, despite their often strong desires to seek justice. Although attorneys agree that the court should protect citizens against criminals, most insist the victim's wishes must be the prior­ity -even if the victim chooses not to pursue the case to trial. 
According to the National Women's Study, conducted by the Crime Victims Research and Treatment Center, only 16 percent of rapes were ever reported. The Boston Area Rape Crisis Center reported that only 3 percent of rapes ever make it to trial in front of a jury -one step further than the Elster case progressed. 
But some experts say that even tak­ing into account the victim's desire to conclude the case quickly Elster's sentence is too lenient. 

• Tootw's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Tim Logan  Dave Piening  
Robert Pazornik  Production  
Molly Nikolas  Brian Kessler  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Brian Kessler  Kevin Dalum  
Viewpoint  
Dan McDonough  
Scene  
Michelle Barton  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe As~ociared Press. All reproduction right!. are reserved. 
Wednesda~ 75 56 Thursday~ 75 55 Friday ~ 75 56 Saturday 75 56
~' 

(;--/'.._('-·•" ... 
q,~,~AQ.Q (f ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Berkina Faso  89  75  Dominican Rep. 103  87  Trenchtown  98  84  
Compton  78  67  El Cajon  87  79  Sunapee  79  68  
Calgary  20  7  Guam  92  74  Tampa  87  62  
Damascus  87  68  Huntington Bch. 88  69  Wakeechobee  46  35  
Deluth  76  58  Plano  104  63  Watts  79  65  


------------~--­
I 
I 
l

Tue~day, September 15, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 ~------------~~~~~~~~====================~ 



Morlan, Cordaro describe protest 
By RACHEL HOPF 
• N<·w,WriH·r 
A down pPople gatlwn~d in llw CtHlter for Social CoiH'nrns last night to lll'ar a l1~rt.ure about military disarmanwnt dPiiven~d hy llev,~rend Larry Morlan and Fatlwr Frank Cordaro. 
Tlw two priests, who are tour­ing tlw Midwest on a campaign for military disarmanu~nt, arn awaiting trial for tlwir allngnd participation in the dnstruetion ol' a B-52 bom bnr at And rows Air Fon:e Base in Maryland ear­lin r this ymLr. 
Tlw arlivists explaintHI their proll~sl ol' tlw United Slates gov­enmwnt's mass investments into military production. which ron­tinun despitn thn hurgnoning homPless conditions across the nation. Aecording to Morlan, (>0 ennts of 1wery American tax dol­lar gons toward thn prnparation and maintenance our military 
1~stablishment. 
The two activists confessed their story of uncivil disobedi­nnen to the assembled audience in tlw CSC: 
On the morning of the plan nod dnmonstration at Andrews Air Foree Base, Morlan and Cordaro, along with two Dominiean sisters and a grand­mothnr, went to the B-52 display at tlw air show equipped with hammers and containers of their own blood. 
"Brothnrs and sisters, lot us disarm these Gods of metal," shoutnd Cordaro, and with that, thn group began their disarma­ment of the bomber plane. While more than I ,000 onlookers watched curiously, the group struck the cral't repeatedly with llw hammers and poured their blood onto the plane. 
The five activists then held their banner which read, "God of Metal Plowshares" and peaceful­ly awaited their subsequent arrests. 
"The threat of nuclear weapons is greater now than it ever has been," said Morlan. He and the other plowshare activists stated their belief that it is their duty to do all they can to protect the innocent masses who will bn harmed by "weapons of mass destruction." 
Holy Cross Mission in Coa.:l.ella, California January 2-8. 1999 
Nue!liitro~:ll Senora 1le Sole•la•l Parisi• Coad1ella, California 
-elll:perienc.e !liiiiU"llll Chri!liitian c.o11111111Unities -clynarnic. L&lllino c.l•urd1 lea1lershi1• -!liiiJCdolll pro~Jr&llnls in..-ol..-ing youth an1l the 1•oor 
-claily ~Jroup 1Jro11yer an1l reflec.tion 
lnforn~ational Meeting Wednesday, Sept. 16, 'J::J0-8:00 p.01. or Tl.ursday, Sept. 17, 'J::J0-8:00 p.01. 
Coffee House -Center for Soc::ial Con«:erns 
'Sonl<." l.no...,l....lq... of s•••,..isl• or Clt:peri<."HI[<."
esc 
of L • .tino uoltur<." is r<."quire<l 
-

• s,,onsored 1,.., Ca01pus Ministr.., and 0MPUS
• Tl..e Center for Sodal Con«:erns MINISTRY 
What can

ARTHUR 


I expect

ANDERSON 
my first year in a technology consulting practice?
join ND grads in Computer Risk Management for an Informal Roundtable Discussion, University Club Main Lounge Tuesday, September 15th 7:30-9:00pm Refreshments and Desserts will be provided. 
•
What role does a first year consultant play on an experienced team? 

•
How can I determine whether my Business skills will be relevant? 

•Will 
I really be signing up to be in..... sales?? 

•
How can I prepare for the first year? 

• 
How will I be able to tell if consulting is not the way to go? 


Panel debates world economic situation 
By CHRIS KUSEK NewsWrirer 
Will the current economic troubles in areas such as Russia and Asia lead the world towards economic melt­down? 
That was the question that a special roundtable panel dis­cussion, cosponsored by The Kellogg Institute and the Department of Finance, attempted to answer yester­day. The panel included visit­ing fellow Ilene Grabel, from the University of Denver, eco­nomics professor Kwan Kim and Jeffrey Bergstrand, a finance professor. 
The main topic of discussion was the current instability of the world economy and the dangers which that uncertain­ty breeds. The panel focused on potential problems inher­ent in the trend to hard cur­rency in debt repayment. 
This trend will "pull the rug out of" certain southeast Asian countries, claimed Kim, leading to debt distress and higher rates of naive specula­tion. It was stressed that this speculation, especially in rela· tively rocent derivative mar­kets, can lead to extensive economic woes. 
The panel stressed that the current volatility and experi­mentation of the trading mar· kets poses a very real danger to developing economies. Due to a decrease in government regulation, ·new trading instruments such as futures, options, and swaps are becoming more and more popular. 
Grabel noted that while the trial-runs of these finanCial "labs" create wonderful opportunities for short-term investors, the experimenta· tion also holds the potential for great danger. Grabel used real life stories of a novice derivative trader in Orange County. Cal., to prove her point. She also spoke of a Berin.gs Bank officer who was "betting in derivatives" to illustrate the dangers of such an interdependent world economy. 
Due to this ever inereasing interdependence, Kim 
claimed, soemingly unrolated markets will be touched by crisis. 
''If' the whole world is in recession, how can one coun­try get out'?" he asked. 
The panel also focused on the long term economic trend away from real, tangible, assets to less stable finance­based activities sueh as stoek. bond, or derivative trading. 
Comparing the Asian and Mexican markets, Kim went on to speak of the dangers of greater global exposure to the "money game" of tho "Anglo­American" finaneial markets. lie pointed out that Mexico, a "good boy" in terms of International Monetary Fund rules and regulations, still experienced a 26% stock mar­ket drop. Due to problems with full disclosure, even "tho (Mexican) government doesn't know how deep the el'isis is," he claimed. 
Bergstrand also expressed concern with the IMF's "tradi­tionalist policies", but had a slightly different perspective on the Mexiean situation. In ordnr to join intornational trade organizations and "play with the big dogs" or the world economy, Mexico, ho claimed, was forced to liberal­ize their economic policy and lower their interest rates. This fall of intnrest rates led to a more liquid, less stable economy. Like the other panel mombnrs, however, he saw the increase in speculation and lack of' strong hedging us a major factor in Mexico's current instability. 
While the panel was fairly consistent in diagnosing the current eeonomic ills, their cures were quite diverse. 
While Grabel urged greater regulation and under­standing of financial markets, Kim and Bergstrand focused on reforming tho IMF. "I think the current IMF regime is outdated," Kim said. while Bergstrand sees the nel':ld for a "shakeup." 
It was a consensus among the panel that for internation­al economic meltdown to btl averted, new programs and policies have to be seriously considernd. 





Don't forget: Register to vote this week to cast a ballot in November 

Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
r-----------, r-----------,
1 1 1 1
One Month I 0 Tanning 
I I I I 
: Unlimited : : Bed : 
I , I I I 
: Tannmg : or : Sessions : 
: only $40.00: : only $35.00 : 
L-----------~ L-----------~ 
Tan the rest of '98 for $98 
Universily Commons by UP Mall Grape & McKinley near KMart 

272-7653 256-9656 


. -~-~--~--~-~~-~---------~----------~~-~~~ 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 15, 1998 
said Bradley.

• CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
To increase interest in poli­
Bradley 
tics, Bradley believes that the 
country must make voting par­


Committee chairs report at CLC 
continued from page 1 
ticipation easier through such 
ideas as weekend voting, 24 or

By FINN PRESSLY 
"What do we do ... to invigorate 48-hour voting, or expanded
News Writer democracy today?" Bradley voting by mail. 
asked his audience. 
Bradley ended his list of sug­

The agenda at yesterday's Bradley answered his question g c s t e d
meeting of the Campus Life by suggesting a improvements
Council consisted of reports grassroots effort for American
from each of the CLC's subcom­for campaign 'WHAT DO WE DO ••• politics by say­
mittBes. finance reform. TO INVIGORATE ing that middle
Mickey Doyle, head of the He said that the or centrist vot­Alcohol committee. reported Supreme Court DEMOCRACY TODAY?' 
ers need to play

that his eommittee had dis­has made it difli­
a greater role

cussed how the procedures for cult, however, to the dorm semi-formals could enact such BILL BRADLEY in government; 
a political sys-be reformed. The current pro­reform. Bradley 

FORMER U.S. SENATOR tern without

cedure states that 70 percent cited a 1976 moderates kills
of the dorm must partieipate in Supreme Court stability and drives down par­the event for it to occur. ruling which stated that the free­ticipation.
"If it's eight o'cloek, and the dom of spending money is equiv­"When ideals are joined withSYR gets canceled !due to low alent to the freedom of speech, actions, the ingredients are setparticipation). people are just and thus to limit money in cam­
for transformation." said

going to filter off campus to paigns would limit individuals' Bradley.
parties and bars," said Doyle. right to free speech. 
Senator Bradley is a visitingBill Kirk, assistant vice presi­Bradley also exhibited an 

professor of public affairs at

dent for residence life, interest in bringing politics clos­
Notre Dame during the fall

explained that since the SYRs er to the lives of the American 
semester. His next open lec­

often take over the entire hall, public. 
ture will take place on Octoberit would not make sense to "People see politics less, not 

2.

have less than 70 percent of more, related to their lives," 
the residents agree to partic­ipate. 
Student body president Pete Cesaro suggested another option. 
"Statistically speaking, Friday 
and Saturday nights are slow I he Observer/Patrick Quigley nights at the Alumni-Senior Student body president Peter Cesaro addresses the.CLC as Tim Bar. Maybe opening it up to Keller looks on. Last night's meeting lasted less than 15 minutes. underclassmen on certain days · 
nary examination of the resi­also explored the idea of orga­
would give them a place to go dence halls on campus, it dis­nizing orientation activities for that's still ofT campus." he said. 
covered vast differences exist­multicultural freshmen.
Susan Roberts, chair of the ing among the 24-hour spaces. The Undergraduate Student
Bylaw Review committee, 
"We want to assess the Finance committee, headed by
reported that her committee 
available space in each dorm, sophomore Brian O'Donoghue,was in the process of conduct­and how that space could pos­has narrowed its focus toing a preliminary investigation. 
sibly be expanded," Mamak three goals.
"We're looking at the pur­·said. In addition, the commit­"We're really focusing on
pose of the CLC before we 
tee hopes to meet with the hall financial aid, cost of living on
revise the bylaws," said presidents and rectors from campus, and educating stu­
Roberts. She also reported that each dorm in order to investi­dents in personal finances,"she and her committee mem­gate the needs of each resi­said ()'Donoghue.
bers were examining the 
dence halL The meeting concluded witharchives in order to chart the 
Race relations on campus an announcement from Sister
history of the CLC and how its 
and the non-discrimination Carrine Etheridge, rectress ofpurpose has evolved. From 
clause were the two main Farley Hall. in which she com­
there, her committee will issues on the agenda of the mended the student govern­
ex,amine how the bylaws sup­
Diversity committee. ment for its role in the open-
port the mission of CLC. 
Chairperson April Davis said il
The Community Life commit­
that her committee has dis­
tee has focused on the issue of 
cussed the possible implemen­
24-hour space on campus, 
tation of diversity workshops.
according to chairperson Matt 
The Diversity committee has
Mamak. Following a prelimi-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME INTERNATIONAL STUDY PROGRAM 
SANTIAGO, CHILE 
SPRING 1999 
INFORMATION MEETINGS WITH PROFESSOR SILVIA ROJAS-ANADON 
TUESDAY SEPTEMBER 15,1998 4:45P.M. 216 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATION DEADLINE OCTOBER 1, 1998 






Career Forum 
MBA & Undergraduate Students are invited to meet representatiyes frorn over 1oo companies! 
Thursday, September 17th,
. 
starting at 7:00 p.n1. 
and Career Panels and Inforn1ational Sessions to be held on Friday, September 18th, 9:30a.m.­

4:00p.m. 

Money 
continued from page 1 
endowment growth and pay­out. That mindset requires preparation for possible down­turns. The Investment Office practices this strategy, among other ways, by saving surplus growth from a strong year for future weak years rather than paying out the unexpected returns. 
"This year's still positive, but if we did have a negative year, we could draw from our past suceesses" to continue the planned payout without shrinking the principle, Malpass said. 
For the University's fiscal year that ended this summer, the endowment appreciated a total of 20 per cent, its third consecutive year of such high growth. 
"The market has been very good to us, and so we've been able to increase the payouts," Malpass said. In the 12-month period that ended June 30, the fund grew by $300 million due to both appreciation on the principle investment, as well as gifts received from the Generations fundraising cam­paign. Last year's growth was primarily appreciation, but three-fourths of the $767 mil­lion Generations campaign will be endowment-related, Malpass explained. 
Lessons That Will Last A Lifeti.ne. 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Put that college degree to use by enrolling into the Air Force Officer Training School. Upon successful completion of the Officer Training School, you will become a commissioned Air Force officer with earned respect and benefits like-great starting pay, medical and 
dental care. man•  ement and travel  
AIM HIGH  opportunitie~  r~.  nore on how to qualify  
AIR-lill........__  and get your career soaring with the  
.::-~1..,..-­ Air Force Officer Training School, call  
~  1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at  
www.airforce.com  www.airforce.com  


Tuesday. September I5. 1998 COMP/I.ED FROM THE 0BSlc1WER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
.,, ... B
\"'-lk' 1· L•"-<lli"" "''""'"S
• ~·lJ l.~.-="".tLV~o-.:J h1t..l 
Puerto Rico seeks statehood 
SAN JUAN 
With I'PsliVP marrlws and TV ads. political partit•s haw kirkNI oiT thf'ir campaigns !'or a llt'CI'Illlwr piPbisl'ilP on Punrlo Hic~o·s nda­lionship with tlw Unill'd Stall'S. llundrnds or pt•oplc· who want l'tll'rlo llic:o lo lwronw a 
U.S. stall' wavPd Anwriran llags on Sunday as th1•y wPaVPd through nortlwrn An~cibo on a "Caravan for !·:quality." In Pastl'rn Caguas. suppor!Prs ol' tht• ruiTI'nt commonwealth arrangt•nH'Ill t·ountt•rPd with a "Commonwt•alth Crusadn" rallv. whiiP indn­twndPtH'P advor.atPs took to ra(lio talk shows to sPII thPir rausP. Thosn who want l'tll'rto l!ico to lw till' !i 1st stall' arP alrnady running tPit•vision adwrtisP!lll'nts insisting thn island would not losP tlw Spanish language or its dislirll'l dwracll•r aftl'r joining thl' union. "Stalt•hood: your languagn. your rulturn. your l'utun•." th1• ads promisn. 
Court frees talk-show killer 
I>ETHOIT 
A man faring up to !iO yn(trs in prison for shooting to dPath a gay admin•r who rl'v<~alnd a SI'ITI'l crush on him on "Tiw JPnny Jones Show" had his murdPr convirtion ovnrtunwd by a stall' appPals court Monday. The :VIirhigan Court ol' /\ppPals said tlw trialjudgn should haw IPt Jonathan Schmitz's lawynrs rPmovn a juror lwl'on• llw trial bngan. ill)l'nnso lawy1•rs wPrP not n•quin·d by law to <~xplain why llwy wantPd tlw juror n•movod. Schmitz, who is lwtl'rosf'xual. shot Sr.ott Anwdurn on LIH• victim's doorstnp thrnn days aftnr the two nwn appnan~d on a 1995 "Jenny Jones" tap­ing. During tlw taping. Anwduro, :{2. rnvealed lw had a rrush on Schmitz as the audinncn wlwopnd and hollen~d. 
New maps ready for schools 
WASlllNGTON 
l·:vPry school in thn United States will 
n~c:Pivn a n1~w world map l'rom the National 
(;pov;raphie So1~iety. Tlw laminated. two­
sidPd maps are b1~ing snnt to more than 
100,000 srhools this month. th1~ society 
announcnd Monday. "In the dosing decade 
ol' this cPnturv nntirn countries have come or 
gorw. bound.ariPS have shifted and place 
namns havP ehangnd.'' said tlw society's 
prnsidnnt. .John Falwy. "What better way to 
start a nnw millnnnium than to make sure 
evnry OIH' of our nation's sdwols is on the 
sanw map." One sidP of the 4-by-6-foot map 
shows thl' politir.al boundaries of the world 
as ol' .lurw 19911, while the other side is a 
pil'lure of the physi1:al world based on 
iml).gns coliPc:ted by satPllito. Creation and 
distribution of th<' nnw maps cost $1 million, 
tlw sori1~ty said. It is part of a long-term 
dfort to improvr, tlw tnaehing of geography 
in schools. Crnating thP map oenrpied 25 
mapmakPrs l'or morP than a y1~ar. 
Dow 
AMEX: 
619.30
./ONES 
.(>.()') 
Nasdaq:
7945.35 
fl 
166S.69 t24.0'i NYSE: 510.21 
tiO.I H 
S&P SOO: 1029.72 Composite
t20.66 
Volutne:
+149.85 815,115,710 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 
i I!MI'1~~X IU"ISIU '~11 ll~tsSd i li61~ I'IHrl 
II II All\ IN< II All .1(,,2s -7..11 .17.1111 IH\NIY co IJI\ -~ ..1.1 -UK 24.44 IIIII t liMI'l'll.lt IJII.I ..2.1U +l.fl.l !W.Oh tii·NAulltl' t.II'N -17.2h -2.7~ U.l'l INIIIlliiU' IN I<. tl.O.I +O.HX HS.KI lltAVIIIIIt\ t,ltnUI) II!V +1..'1.1 tO.h.l 41.~ 1 l\l 0\Y\11 M\ t.\LO + 1.01 tll.ll4 'l.t.fliJ MIIIUl\011 COIU' M\rl +I hX +1.7!'1 IOtdl \1'1)1( t\kP .'\IIIII \PY + 1.72 + 1.7.'1 111.\.44 UIIAC II t.OIU' (IIH:l +4.17 +1.116 26.:% 
• ALBANIA 

ASSOCIATED PRESS including to the Serbian Berisha's Democratic Party three bodies down Tirana's 
province of Kosovo, where "has gone too far." main boulevard to Nann's 

TIRANA ethnic Albanian rebels are In Washington, State oflice. 
Supporters of former lighting for independence. Department spokesman Suddenly, guards insidf1 President Sali Berisha seized The violence in Tirana James Rubin condemned the the building opened fire. Albanian government build­threatened a repeat of use of violence both by gov­Armed Berisha supporters ings Monday after the week­nationwide riots that swept ernment and insurgent­returnPd the lire and hurled end killing of a popular Albania last year after the forces. grenades into the windows. Berisha aide, but govern­collapse of pyramid invest­Earlier Monday, Berisha A general uprising ensued, ment forc.es launched a ment schemes that cost demanded that Prime during which opposition counterattack and regained many people their life's sav­Minister Fatos Nano resign gunmen quickly overran key sites in a day of chaotic ings. The turmoil sent and pave the way for new state television, parliament violence. refugees into Italy, Greece elections. Berisha blamed and other major buildings. 
Interior Ministry and elsewhere in Europe. his rival for the assassina­Crowds of looters broke spokesman Artan Bizhga The Albanian Interior tion of his aide, Azem into stores closed for the said at least three Berisha Ministry advised foreign Hajdari, who was gunned funeral, carting away jeans, supporters were killed and diplomats they would try to down along with a body­electronic appliances and 14 wounded in the arrest Berisha on Tuesday, guard Saturday in front of other goods. For hours, counterattack. Berisha according to government his party's headquarters. gangs of armed men roamed remained holed up at the sources who spoke on condi­Berisha's followers torched the city, firing in the air. headquarters of his tion of anonymity. Nano's office Sunday in a Protesters seized at least Democratic Party late Meanwhile, Berisha called riot in which one Democratic four tanks, which lumbered Monday. on supporters to hold anoth­Party member was killed. through tho streets as civil­
Diplomats from the United er rally Tuesday. On Monday, about 10,000 ians clambered on board. States and European coun­Daan Everts, chief of the people gathered at After his forces seized the tries were seeking to negoti­Tirana office of the Skanderbeg Square for the television station. Berisha ate a pnaceful end to the cri­Organization for Security funeral of Hajdari and the appealed for calm in a tele­sis in this impoverished and Cooperation in Europe, two other Democratic Party vised address. lie urged his Balkan country. Many fear said the U.S. and European members. After the ceremo­followers to seek a political the unrest could spread, envoys had sent a signal that ny, mourners carried the solution. 
Mexico flood relief begins to sort out damage 
ASSOCIATED PRESS  al eommunities  ...  where the houses  Zedillo said the government is  
are filled with mud. We must have  working in "very difficult conditions"  
ACAPETAGUA  people who have not been reported  to supply an  average of 250 tons of  
Heeeding waters revealed the death  as dead and we  are going to  find  food. water and medicine daily to the  
and devastation brought by llooding  them."  coastal region swept by t1ooding.  
in southern Mexico, where President  The Health Ministry said 90 people  The National Water Commission  
Ernesto Zedillo flew Monday for the  have  been  confirmed  dead  in  estim<tted  that in  J'ive  days  last  
third time to check on relief efforts.  Chiapas. Tho numbor of missing is  week the coast reeeivod nearly 2 feet  
With a 100-mile stretch of coastline  not known. More than a  dozen peo­ of rain,  a  quarter of the average  
cut off from the outside world due to  ple also have died in storms else­ ·  annual total for the area.  
damaged  or  blocked  roads  and  where in Moxico  over  the past 10  There  are  5,000  communitios  
bridges. Zedillo flew by helkopter to  days.  affected by flooding, Zedillo said.  
Esquintla and Acapetagua. Army  About 23,000 people were being  ''We can't give everybody everything.  
troops, meanwhile, opened provi·  housed in shelters in Chiapas state.  Wc~  can  give something to every·  
sional roads about n quarter of the  Relief organizations appealed for vol­ body."  
way up the coast, from Tapachula  unteers and donations. "The primary  Isabel lshacaua, whose Acatepagua  
toward Esquintla. "The emergency  thing is that you don't die or hunger  home was  flooded, wept uncontrol·  
situation will last f'or many  more  or thirst," Zodillo told victims at a  !ably as she told Zedillo,"We have  
days,'' Zedillo said. "There are sever- shelter in Acapetagtm. ·  ..  nothing. The river took everything."  

• 


page 6 
Bishop, priests dedicate Ave Maria Press building 
By MICHAEL FLANNERY News Writer 
At a spirited religious cere­mony yesterday presided over by South Bend Bishop John D'Arcy, Notre Dame dedicated the new headquarters of the Ave Maria Press. 
University President Father Edward Malloy and several Holy Cross priests were in attendance as the Bishop laud­ed the Press for continuing to provide service-minded Catholic literature in a world where the media is, according to him, "so self-centered." He also stressed the value of the written word in spreading the message of God. 
I 
The Ave Maria Press publish­es several hundred titles of reli­, gious literature, ranging from religious education texts to prayer books; it also prints the University's Bulletin of 
I 
Information for both graduate and undergraduate students as well as an array of media guides for Notre Dame's athletic 
teams. 
University Executive Vice President Father William Beauchamp explained that the new building was conceived when the University decided to expand the power plant adja­cent to the location of the old Press. 
Construetion began in October 1997. and workers 
Please recycle the Observer 
International StudyPrograms 
Study at the American University in Cairo 
(Instruction is in English) 
began moving into the building in April. According to Father Mark Thesing, a member of the Board of Directors of the Ave Maria Press, and Mark Witbeck, the company's controller, the new facility will enhance the productivity of the Press by combining printing, storage, and distribution in one location. 
The new building houses a four-color printing press, as well as a combined storage facility and conveyor belt sys­tem which allows the Press to fill a book order in 24 hours. Witbeck stressed this develop­ment as a major improvement, because the Press sells most of its products by mail order. Previously, books were stored in up to three different ware­houses at one time. 
"I am very pleased with how things turned out," Thesing said. 
The Ave Maria Press Was founded in 1865 by Father Edward Sorin. Until 1970, it published Ave Maria, a maga­zine for Catholic families. This publication boasted the highest circulation of any English lan­guage Catholic magazine in the world, at the turn of the centu­ry. 
Today the Press is headed by Frank Cunningham, the eighth man to hold the post since Sorin and the first layman to do so. 

Information Meeting for Spring 1999, Fall 1999 and Spring 2000 
Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
4:30 PM, 149 DeBartolo 
All Undergraduate Students are Welcome! 
PEACE CORPS 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, September 17 6:00 p.m. -7:30 p.m. 

(800) 424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov 
Tuesday, September 15, 1998 

SUN., SEPT. 13 
12:46 p.m. A Farley Hall resident reported the theft of her bookbag from North Dining Hall. Her book· bag was left unattended at the time of the theft. 
@].@]
I I
A WEEKEND IN CANADA 
I sTRii~tiRD I
ITHEATRE FESTIVALi 
~  (Sept. 18-20)  ~  
~  The Package:  ~  
~  • Round Trip Transportation  ~  
~  from Campus to Stratford, Ontario  ~  
~  • 2 nights at the Elegant Victorian Inn  ~  
~ ~ I ~ I  on the Park (Breakfast included) • Top price Tickets to THREE MAJOR PRODUCTIONS: The Plays: .MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING  ~ I ~ II  
~ ~ I  THE MAN OF LA MANCHA THE MISER Two GENTLEMEN OF VERONA  ~ II  
~  Total Cost per person: $235.00 !  ~  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ONLY TEN PLACES REMAINING!  ~  
~ ~  Order by September 16 Call at once! 631-7226 I 631-5069  ~ I  

@].@] 
Make A Career Out of Spending Other People's Money. 
Please join us for an 
information session: 
Wednesday, September 16 Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 6:00 -8:00 pm 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Career & Placement 
MEDIA ... It is what takes ideas from the conceptual and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad outdoors. At Starcom, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplace to go! 
• 
·~ ·~· 
* 
* * 
STARCOM MEDIA SERVICES 
;1 Dlllr.Stan orLt:o &Jmet:. ComfNII1Y. Inc. 


• 
Tuesday, Seprember 15, 1998 The Observer· INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• RussiA 
New prime minister pledges reforms, relief 
Asso<.iltcd Press 
MOSCOW 
Whill' piPdging lO t~ontinun t•ronomir .rPforms. nnw l'rirnn Minister YPvgnny Primakov said Monday lw would try to make tlwm Pasinr on impoverislwd Bussians by restoring llw social sal'nty net and paying overdue 
wag1~s. 
"WP cannot conduct reforms that all'nrt the people adversnly," l'rimakov said at a Cabinet nwt'ting. "II' thnrapy drags out for dPcadns. and no glt~am of light is snnn. it is 1~nrtainly not in Llw inLPrnsts of Llw country. not. in tlw intPrl'sts of tlw p1wpln." Hut lwsidl's n~peating his pn~dn­e1~ssors' pledgn to improve tax c~ollnetion. Primakov provided fi1w details on whem his govern­ment would get the money to carry out his plans. Othor ol'li­dals on Monday dnnied mports that tlw government has printed 11xtra rublns. 
Primakov promisod to pay ofT govnrnm1111t workers' back wagos, whieh have been left unpaid for months by the previ­ous government, and to compen­sate low-paid Hussians f(w inlla­tion. 
"This problem [must! be resolved once and for all." l'rimakov said. "It cannot b() dorw immediaLPiy, but pnople should know that the govern­ment firmly and strictly will be pursuing this." 
Primakov's speech came a day aft11r leading reformers lament­ed his appointment and the recruitment of two lbrmer Soviet bureaucrats to senior economic posts in the Cabinet. 
"It's quite obvious that their course is aimed at destabilizing the country's finances and dis­mantling elements of a !'me-mar­ket economy," former Prime Minister Yegor Gaidar said on Echo Moscow radio. 
Primakov, a former foreign minister and spy chief, was easi­ly approved Friday by a parlia­ment that had earlier rejected Yeltsin's first choice for prime minister. Viktor Chernomyrdin. Chernomyrdin allirmed Monday that he still intends to run for president in 2000. 
Primakov's economic program would includ1~ tightening control over capital expenditures of state-run companies, strength­ening government discipline, and promoting foreign investments into Russian industries. he said. 
Primakov named Yuri Maslyukov, a senior Communist lawmaker and former Soviet central planning chief, as first deputy premier in charge of eco­nomic policy. 
The new prime minister also brought Viktor Gerashchcnko ­former chief banker for the 

r
c ~_:) ~ 
_z::t..,~--.= 
Saturday, September 19 I' 

Soviet Union and later Hussia ­
to head the Central Bank. 
Gerashchenko has been criti­
dz!~d by Westm·n ~~conomists for 
generously printing money to 
help ailing industries when he 
headed the centnd bank in 
1989-94. 
Primakov defended his new 
team as a group of professionals 
that would not fi11low any party's 
line. I Ie was expectnd to present 
the rest of his Cabinet nomina­
tions to Yeltsin by this weekend. 
Communist loader Gennady Zyuganov also trind to play down the new Cabinet's leftist bent and insisted that was not the reason his parliamentary faction supported Primakov in the eon­lirmation vote. 
"We will support everyone who is going to pull the country out of the marsh." Zyuganov said. 
Primakov has also asked the International Monetary Fund to begin immediate talks with the Hussian government, according to the IMF's Moseow representa­tive, Martin Gilman. The IMF director in charge of Hussia. John Odling Smee, was due in Moseow on Tuesday. 
But IMF ehief Michel Camdessus insisted in an inter­view published in the french financial daily 
Les Eehos on Monday that there would be no new financial help for Hussia until market reforms are enacted. The IMF put together a $22.6 billion rns­cue package for Hussia in July but eut the first tranche and warned last week that a second infusion of $4.3 billion is likely to be delayed. 


cannot prepare /or the new millennium 
•
tn an';! other way than in the .Jlofy Spiril " 
-Pope John Paul II 
In response to the· Holy Father's invitation to 
the universal church, join us Wednesday 
evenings this fall as we come together in prayer 
and study in order to grow in holiness under the 
guidance of the Holy Spirit. 

PRfffHT... 

"THE ~EVEH 61fT~ Of THE HOLY ~PIRIT'



••••••••••·lt'1.'$f~r:''t:. ,:\!f.''·:·~r~'~!tf;T·::t~,:!%1 :;'~.~.·~:r, ::,, 
SEPI:J6 fEAR Of THE lORD 
Sept. 30 Coun~el 
Oct. 7 Knowledge 
Oct. 28 fortitude
7-Bpm 
Nov. 4 Piety
in the 
Undentanding

hhtoric Nov. 11 Nov. 18
l06 CHAPEl 

FR. BILL WACK, esc 
Holy Cross Seminarians 
Dean Carolyn Woo 
Fr. Mike Baxter, esc 
Fr. Bill Seetch, esc Prof. John Cavadini Ms. Chandra Johnson 



..-------~-----~-~ 
---~---~ ---·----~~·----·-·-----~ 

page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 15, 1998 
Despite scandal, Clinton's approval rating stays strong 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton's lofty job approval ratings seem far removed from the growing calls for his resignation and the talk in Congress of impeachment. 
Indeed, political analysts say they've never seen anything quite like the president's steady run of ratings over 60 percent during eight months of intense controversy over his relation­ship with Monica Lewinsky. 
Why is this happening? 
Some would argue: "It's the economy, stupid" -the oft­quoted slogan from the war room in Clinton's first presiden­tial campaign. "We could talk all day and night about factors that m i g h t 
'SURE THE GUY HAS HIS
change his caught j 0 b FAULTS. BUT PEOPLE CAN impeach­ment fever. 
a P P r 0 v a I IDENTIFY WITH LYING ABOUT 
two or 
three per THIS SORT OF THING' "This. cent," said brings him political down to the 
DORIS GRABER level of the 
scientist L a r r y UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS AT CHICAGO guy next 
Sabato of t h e University of Virginia. "The economy is the single most important ingredient to his Teflon." 
"The country has prospered under him," said Clinton politi­cal adviser James Carville, field general from that 1992 war room. "In democracies, histori­cally, people have blamed their leaders when things go bad and rewarded their leaders when things have gone well." 
The stock market has strug­gled lately amid international financial problems, but unem­ployment and inflation rates are the best they've been in a generation, and falling interest rates have spurred a boom in housing sales. 
On Monday, the president addressed growing internation­al financial troubles and called on the world's wealthy nations to work together on economic issues. 
While the president's person­al ratings on trust and ethics have declined recently, and some people say they want him censured, public approval of his job performance is helping him for now. 
The president struggled in 
the polls during his first two 
years and Republicans took 
control of Congress in 1994. 
During the government shut­
down in late 1995, Clinton 
boosted his approval numbers 
by successfully blaming 
Republicans for the gridlock. 
"His survival in the presiden­
cy and his high popularity are 
directly attributable to the 
overreaching of Republicans in 
the Congress," said Alan 
Brinkley, a history professor at 
Columbia University. "Once he 
Thurs 
had an unpopular enemy against whom he could com­pare himself, it gave him enor­mous leverage for improving his image." 
The president's job approval numbers flourished through 1996 and 1997. When news of the Starr investigation of Clinton's relationship with Ms. Lewinsky br:oke in January, his job approval rating actually spiked to 71 per cent in a Pew Research Center poll. It has been in the sixties ever since. 
Since the president admitted in August that he had a sexual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky, some newspapers, TV pundits and members of Congress have called for his resignation or impeach­ment. But the public has not 
door. Sure 
the guy has, faults," said Doris Graber, a political communications expert at the University of lllinois at Chicago. "But people can identify with lying about this sort of thing, even in their teen years, lyihg about dating"" 
The media's sense of outrage is higher than the public's, Bill Kovach, curator of the Nieman Foundation suggested, because individual journalists feel a sense of betrayal. 
"In spite of everything that people in Washington, D.C., may believe, the sun does not rise and set on Washington," Kovach said. "For most people, Washington and the work of the federal government are a much smaller part of their lives than people tend to believe." 
Clinton's Republican prede­cessors saw their job approval ratings drop dramatically. 
President Reagan lost 20 points in a month and a half in late 1986 when the Iran­Contra affair became public. And President Bush, whose. job approval ratings were near 90 percent in early 1991 after the Persian Gulf War, saw them drop to about about 30 percent by the sum­mer of 1992 as the economy sagged. 
Republican pollster Frank 
Luntz said Monday that job 
approval is merely "a mea­
sure of the country's sense of 
well-being." He contended 
that the president's personal 
poll numbers are a far more 
important measure of how 
people view him. 
Almost six out of 10 people 
in a CNN/USA Today/Gallup 
poll taken Sunday had a neg­
ative view of Clinton. 
Clinton roller coaster 
There ha·.~ bNrt rnany ups and do!JiiTJS in Prosidli!nt Cfu"aon's approval r!rtings• srt;o his first term. but h1s raiings ha~o~e never been hgher than the past seven montl'1s. A look back to 1993 
75«;. JO  ISS•Jes Sil,(:h as ,1i,l1orne·1 General ~tJT~f'lii>. gays In 1he military r4"1(J ott~r llbSS1eps 1e.;,o t•mefictw'!S 1(1 reel!he precsloent iS re1 et,feclh,-1£< In g.erling1hings r,fone  
f\.rt:»o:: !'lOUr:. on neai!th-.:are reforms; Republicans 5'A'€€p to p::.wer 11!'1 Congress  Fir$1 rte~15 or Monica L~winsky in....-estigati0t1 breaks  
1993  1994  19'95  1996  19'97  1908  


Associated Press 
Do you like to write? If so, call the News Department at 1-5323. 
Earn one credit while learning in a city ... continue the tradition 


The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. 
As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past 
have included:  
Albany  New Orleans  
Atlanta  Memphis  
Brooklyn  Nashville  
Harlem  Seattle  
Baltimore  Phoenix  
Washington  Honolulu  
Los Angeles  and many more sites  

As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. I Not I but the city teaches. -Socrates I 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CONTACT the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc 
Application Deadline --Friday, November 6 
RecSports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 1-61 00 • http://www.nd.edu/-recsport 
on 6* 


-------~-~---------.--------~-------"-~~----~-----------------------"--------~-~-~----_..­
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 15, 1998 os~£RYER ------------------------------------------------page9 
THE OBSERVER 
Ntll'l!l" DAMf OFFICI: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICI'.: 309 Haggar. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOI<-IN-CIIIF.F  
Heouher Cock~  
MANAGING ElliTOR  BUstNF-SS MANAGER  
Hri:1n Reinrhaler  Kyle Carlin  
A.sstsrAN r MANA<;tNG EDITOR  
Iil·ouher Mo~~.:Kenzic  

Nf.WS Em ron.. .. ................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin Vlf'WI'CJINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull An DE.'iiGN MANAGER ....................... Bren Huelac SI'OR rs EDn"OR .. .. ....... " .. """ 1\.ahleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael" Brouillet SCF.Nf. EDITORS." """"" """"""""""S""ah Dylo~ CONTROI.tt:R ...... ............. Dave Rogero 
Kristi Klirsc.h WI~D ADMINISTRATOR .................jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY 1!'1 EDITOR ...... M. Sh:mnon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cildla PHOTO EDITOR . .. ... Kevin Dalum 
!'he ( lh\L'I'\'t'r '' 1lw illtlt•jlL'IIlkiU llL'W)op.lpcr puhli)ohcd by 1hc.· )oltltlcnh nl'1lu· U11ivcr~i1y ofNo1re [) •• me du 1.'" .mJ 1
\.11111 ~I .it\'·, ( "ullc.•gt·. It delL'' IHI! nctl')o\,lflly rcllcc1 the.• pnlicic.·!'> nf d}c aJmini~lration of'ci1hcr mstitutinn. 'l'hc new.'. i.'. hT•orll"-1••' .u.~:ur.udy .md nhJcctl\'d~ ,\)> pn,~ihlc. UnMgncd cdiwn;ll~ rcprc...cnt the opiniun u( 1hc m.1jnri1y of rhc hluor-m-( 'hit{ M.m.l~lllt!. hliwr. A"i't.\111 M.m.1v.ing hliwr .md dqlilrtmc.·nc cJilnr\. Cummcntaric.·)o,lcm:rs .uul c.ultmm' pre\\'Ill llw \'IL'\V\ of!Ia• .milum..md not nc.•n·...,;uilr dHN" ufThc ( )h,.,c.·rwr. Vic.wpoint .~pace j_.. avail.1hlc w ;til 
•m·mhc.·r' ut dll' Nu1rc ll.und~.tint M . .r~.'~ conmnmity ami w .111 rc.1dcrs. The.· free c.·xprc•.,ion u( varying opinion~ thwuv,h lc.'tiL'f\ 1\ cntuur.tgnl. 
Con!aqing The Observer 
Editur-tn~Chid 631-4~42 1\u,ine>S Office 631-531.1 ~.tn.t~ing Fditor/A"bt:tnl Ml; 6.l1-4'i41 Advc:nising 6.l1-G900/HH40 Nr:w... /l'hnto 6.l1-'i.l2.l Sv.'\tC'Ill!Jo G.l1-H839 Spurr~ u.>1-4'i4.l F;,, 631-6927 Sc.:tne//S.um Mary\ u.ll-4'i4o Viewpoint E-Mail Vic:-wpoin1.l @nd.'edu I>•1;.-£~diwr/VicwpClinl 6.\1-'i.lO.'l Ad E-Mail ob!lc:rvc:-rCrVdarwin.cc.nd.edu ( lfti,c M.ttl.l~cr/(;cnc:-r.lllnti:~rnMiion 6.11-7471 New' E-Mail obsr:rver.ob!J,nr:ws.l @nd.c:-du 


• THE BELLE OF SAINT MARY's 
Revelations of the Starr Report 
My fourth hour into reading the Starr rPport. I n~alized that unlikn me, the rnst of you hav1~ a life. You may not have the timn or inclination to explore it yourself and fully apprm:iate thn uplifting philo­sophical insight shining fin-th from its many. many. many pagns. For w11 asa nation have a groat deal to learn from a document that includes an nntirn section entitled "Ms. l.f1winsky's Frustrations." 
Mary Beth Ellis 
It is a distinct honor. my brothers and sisters in thf) Notre Damn family. to share with you thn fi)llowing special moments appnaring in the Starr report "While the l'n~sident was on the telephone, aceord­ing to Ms. Lewinsky. he unzipped his pants and exposed himsdf." 
You know. there arn just certain nouns and verbs you don't want to hear in the same sentenen as "The Prosident." 
-A.n afhwglow report from Ms. Lewinsky: "And then I think he made a joke ... that he hadn't had that in a long time." 
(Sound of llillary Clinton filing for divorce.) 
-i\rtm· Ms. Lewinsky eomplained that Clinton wasn't spending enough time with lwr. h11 rnsponded in the following heart­felt manner that only a caring, sensitive guy lik11 our Pn~sident ean: "Every day can't b11 sunshine." 
Otlwr gennrations get "Wn havn nothing to fear but fnar itself"' and the (;ettysburg A.ddrnss. We gnt: "Every day can't b1) sun­shine." I would like to hereby oflicially proposn that upon the dnath of Prnsident Clinton. this inspiring statemnnt shall be 1:arnd next to "Ask not what your country can do for you. i\sk what you ean do for your country" in Arlington National Cemetery. Who's with me? 
-From the chapter dealing with the First Adulturing Couple's initial sexual encounter: "At one point. Ms. Lewinsky and the President talked alone in the Chief of Staffs office. In the course of flirt­ing with him, she raised her pants in the back and showed him the straps of her thong underwear. which extended above her pants." 
Let us keep in mind that we are dealing with the leader of the free world here. Yes: We have twke eleet­nd a President who risked his job, his family and his place in ,r;. ~ history to take ~({".~'2-~ up with a ! , . 1/J woman whose . ~~ J crescendo pickup -_;;:tJ line was. essentially. to moon him. It was at this point in my reading that I first br,gan searching liJr a sharp object with which to gouge my own eyes out. 
-The following all appear after detail­ing sexual encounters between Ms. Lewinsky and the Prnsident: 
"Mrs. Clinton was in Athens. Greece." "Mrs. Clinton was in Ireland." "Mrs. Clinton was "in Denver, Prague, 
Budapest, Las Vngas, and en route to Bolivia." 
My sense is that. while the President was reading the rr,port, he looked up at his lawyers and said. "See? If she had staynd home and done her wifely duties, I wouldn't be in this mess to begin with." 
-"(Ms. Lewinsky gave the President several gifts including) sunglasses, a puz­zle, a mug emblazoned "Santa Monica," a frog fi~.urine, a letter opening depicting a frog ... 
Well, no wonder he dumped her. She shopped for him in the Crap Department at Meijer's. -"...(She also gave him) a book entitled, 'Oy Vey! The Things They Say! A Guide to Jewish 
Humor."' Okay. This beats even the 
Santa Monica mug. If! were Monica, all 
personal sex-life 
details included, 
the fact that I 
actually purchased· this book would be the most embar­rassing disclo­sure of the Starr report. (The report as it appears on the search engine Yahoo!, by the way, includes a 
direct link to amazon.com, where you can buy your very own copy for $3.46. God bless the information high­way.) 
-Monica Gets Clingy: "I asked him why he doesn't ask me any questions about myself. and is this just sex or do you have some interest in trying to get to know me as a person?" 
Here I realized that at no point in Ms. Lewinsky's formative years did someone sit her down and have a little talk involv­ing men, a cow and free milk. 
-"She recalled that the President took a telephone call during their sexual 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• 000NESBURY 
ReAUYP NO,IT§~T­
~HAT?

>WUGO £0 Gt/JRY. I've
7HATE

()(JTt(//TH Me p 
70TAUYCHeAP-I 5UR&jP/..OV/3 COOI-J eNW MY&etr/ HeY, NO 7V. terGeo I tlf/AY..-/1 
ReAUY 

f36TCOFF/3&. 
OIM&"UP

MYNAM~!!i 
V6RY.N4­

CI?ICK£T. 
TURAUY/

\ 
I 
encounter, and she believed that the caller was a Member of Congress or a Senator. White I louse records show that ... the President talked to two Members of Congress: Heprcsentative Jim Chapman and Hepresentative .John Tanner." 
Let's say you're a Congressman. 
Let's say-sped!kally, just for fun­you're Representative Jim Chapman and/or Hepresentative .John Tanner. 
Here. You can borrow my barf bag. 
What a smashing way to brush with his­tory. Something tells me that these Congressmen will opt against highlighting their appearances in the Starr report in their campaign brochures baek home. 
-"Ms. Lewinsky came to wonder if she was being 'strung along."' This I would place in a section entitled, "Ding ding ding! We have a winner!" 
-"Earlier in his marriage (the President) told (Ms. Lewinsky), he had had hundreds of affairs. but since turning forty .he had made a concentrated effort to remain faithful." 
Yay, Bill! Doesn't the President deserve a nice pat on the back for instituting a cutoff point on snapping his marital vows like a stnmd of uncooked spaghetti'? i\nd hey-way to stick to it. Bill! No one can break a promise to stop breaking promis­es like our President! USA! USA! USA! 
-From the chapter titled "Breakup": "(The President said) he was attracted to Ms. Lewinsky, considered her a great per­son and hoped they could remain friends." 
He also said he'd call her, the check was in the mail and that every day can't be sunshine. 
Mary Beth Ellis is a senior at Saint Mary's College majoring in English writ­ing and political science with a minor in 
U.S. history. She plans to contact Ms. Lewinsky for advice on purchasing SYll gifts. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• QUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Jhave spread my dreams 
under your feet. Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.' 
-William Butler Yeats 

J 

·------·------~·-~~~-~ -~~-. -------.--------~-~­
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 -----------------------os~£RvER Tuesday, September 15, 1998 


EACE, BUT THE WORD 
Is It Just Me, or Has the Left Been Going Crazy in the Past Few Weeks? 
Although the argum~nts of the left are usually of dubious intel­lectual merit, the letters put forth by some of the more radical liber· als on the editorial pages of The Observer in the past few 
weeks have Ms. Fortin pre­been particu­scribes that
Sean 
larly horren­society over­dous, not to thrpw patriar­mention the chal capitalism. political No doubt Ms.
Vinck 
volatility in Fortin advo­
-----========---­
the national political arena. 
First, we had Aaron· Kreider and his PSA write a lengthy. tire­some diatribe against oppression. He accused the Notr.e Dame administration of ~speciesism," and proposed that becoming a 
•"vegan" will somehow remedy this oppression. Aaron Kheriaty humorously dissected Kreider's piece, and I found my self shout· ing "right on" while reading his devastatingly on-target analysis. 
Yet. after reflecting on both Kreider's and Kheriaty's columns, I found myself a bit angry. Kreider's idea of who was and wasn't oppressed was mind bog~ gling. He empathizes with the plight of slugs and pigs, yet he mentions nothing about the oppression of unborn children in this country, or the plight of senior citizens in their quest for dignified, quality medical care. This is yet another example of the hypocrisy or the extreme left; it demonstrates how l'ar the radiCals have alienated themselves from the mainstream of society. 
Professor Ed Manier then wrote 
a letter to the editor calling stu-· 
dents who blew the whistle on the 
Women's Resource Center last 
spring "snitches." This might 
have been a reasonable argument 
but for the fact that the people 
who "snitched" on Student 
Activities never kept their names 
secret; Christine Gabany wrote a 
letter to the editor last spring' 
detailing her experiences with the 
WHC. Manier's letter bespeaks his 
uttHr ignorancH of' what goes on in 
the "nasty little feminist enclave," 
known as the Women's B.esourcw 
Centei·. It also shows that he fails 
to understand the moral signifi­
cance of abortion, and what it 
means to have abortion referrals 
at a Catholic University. It' a 
woman becomes pregnant, she 
needs love and support, not refer­
rals to abortion mills given by 
dogmatic pro-aborts. 
Moreover, a "snitch" is a gram­
mar school student who tells on a 
dassmato for cheating on a test; a 
young woman who courageously 
points out evil practices going on 
at a University-sponsored organ'i­
zation is a hero; she may even 
have saved the lives of a few 
innocent children. 
I was very excited for last Tuesday, when the PSA column would run again. This piece was authored by Sophie Fortin and Jennifer Weaver. These two tried to make the case that conserva­tives implicitly support abortion through upholding a capitalist economic system. Even if true, which itis not, this argument still portrays conservatives in a better light than liberals who explicitly support and facilitate abortion. 
In order to 
achieve justice, 
cates this radi­
cal plan because of the many stellar exam­ples of non-capitalism around the · world. One need only lookto Cambodia. Cuba or Chum for a good example of a society ordered by the antithesis of democracy and capitalism-communism. In these societies, the underclasses are treated brutally and have no civil rights. The economies of these countries are in shambles; there is little opportunity forjobs or for income growth amongthe working class.Jn these countries, political dissidents ~~>re murdered without trialor any semblance of justice. The rights ofthe defense­less are stripped away for the convenience ofthe society as a whole. The forced abortions in China:are a testament to this fact. If the left were really interested in the protection of the poor and underprivileged in our society, they would work to instill virtue into our culture, not seek to over­throw society. 


On the national level, it is a sim· i!ar story. For years, society has been told that character doesn't matter in our political leaders, that one's personal life has no bearing on one's public life. Yet, there is now the spectacle or the President of the United States apologizing toevery person with­in earshot. I can only ask that if character in our public officials doesn't matter, why is Clinton apologizing? 
Clinton's defenders are now 
doing semantical gymnastics to 
defend the president They actu­
ally claim that "oral sex" was not 
specifically covered under the 
defin\tion of sex used by the 
lawyers deposing Clinton in the 
Paula Jones matter. Everyone 
knows that this is absurd, but the 
leftis desperateto hold onto the 
presidency. They correctly per­
ceive that Without Clinton as the 
visible leader of Democratic left­
ism, that,!hey will likely experi­
ence electoral disaster. 
Yes. indeed, the left is going 
crazy, and it's fine with me. To all 
of my liberal friends, keep writ­
ing. Defend the adulterous liar 
you have elected president. Talk 
about your wildest, most radical 
ideas in lurid detail, I'll even help 
you publish it. 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore PLS 
major. His column appears every 
other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this col­
umn are those ofthe author and 
not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

• HE WOULD HAVE HATED IT, BUT HE WouLD HAVE DONE IT 
What Happened on Saturday? 
Man was that ugly. I strenuously suggest that after the coaching staff breaks down the first-half lihn and makes tho requisitB personnel changes (something needs to be done), they burn the film, !mean, what was going on out there? Was everyone reading the Starr report instead of prepar­ing for Michigan State? What was Davie's pregame pep-talk: Smoke'em if you got' em? 
Kevin Patrick 
The score was 42 -3 at halftime! That lead was safer than a White House intern in the Oval Office. That classless Nick Saban was throwing deep against us in the second half. What, a 39-point lead was not enough? Was he worried about an offense 
that generated nine points are), guess what against his num­we have to do to ber one defense? get back in the Maybe on the game? I'll give over/under, he you a hint. it's not took the over -claim that we are oops! That's sex addicts. Northwestern. But of course, I 
For those who am an idiot will lay the lion's because this tac­share of' the tic uses too much blame on Jarious of the clock. Jackson for this Everyone knows ugliness, you arn Autry Denson can way off the mark. not break a big Imagine if the run (especially coaching staff against a def1mse last year deter­worse than our mined that we last opponent). could not pass We also know the ball. As such, that once we get the only play that somP conlid1mcn, would work was the defense will determined to be give up (mad: the option. Then Deke Cooper) and the opposition we will not crnate 
says, "fine, we arc going to cover the tailback and makl' Ron Powlus run every play." Let me repeat that: MAKE RON POWLUS RUN EVERY PLAY! 
Now imagine Ron Powlus with 30 carries in one game. He may (if he is lucky) total 70 yeards throughout the entire game. We would be down 42-3 at the half and the brainless wonders would all scream how slow Powlus is, how poor a runner he is, and how the back-up quarterback is much much better. The blame, however, would not lie with Powlus. Me? I blame Ken Starr. We know what Powlus can and can­not do, Why would the genius play caller have Hon Powlus' running ability be our bread and buttBr play against a high cal­iber team? Good question. 
So let's look at Jarious Jackson. Five of the first six plays were passes. That was ludicrous. Let's look at the logic. We should not establish the run. We should not do this in an attempt to open up a passing game that needs this type of help/confi­dence. We should not work to control the line of scrimmage. We should not put tho ball in the hands of our best player (Autry Denson), and use our strongest asset (a huge offensive line) like we did against a better defense (Michigan) last week. 
What we did was have our inexpcrionced quarterback do what he does worst (pass) and use our most inconsistent asset (the wide receivers) against a team that was 0­2 with a loss to Oregon. Oregon? By the way-how many times will we have to watch Malcolm Johnson give a pathetic one-handed effort on difficult balls we have seBn Notre Dame receivers catch in previ­ous years? Didn't anyone teach him to catch with two hands? Oh I'm sorry, he went to Gonzaga. 
Anyway, to ask .Jarious to throw thirty passes is begging for thB ugliness that ensued. Yes, Jarious threw them. Yes, they wero ugly. And yes, he played poorly (thosP pitches just added insult to injuryL But I will not fault .Jarious as much as many bandwagon !Titics will. It is insane to ask a running quarterback to pass your team to victory -this disaster was brought on by ourselves. No excuse that a right-wing, anti-Arkansas conspiracy forcing us to drop our pants every time an intern walks in the room will work lwre. 
Now the genius in the box will say, "we were down 21<l, 28-3, 35-3, etc. You have to pass your way back into contention, even though it was the passing that put us in that predicament in tho first place." 
Whi111 that may be true in the '"thinking man's" football manual, it only made our situation worse. You must remember, the game is played on tho field so it is impor­tant to coach our players according to their skills. If we are a running team (wo arB) and we have 11 running quarterback (we ,do). and our best players are by far our 
runners (they 

turnovers (read: llr,,.k Williams) or gnt points off of those turnovers (see previous). Following this infallable Iogie, the only thing lel't to do is have Hon Powlus run 30 times a game and hope for the best. What a plan. 
Not having Kory Minor was bigger than anyone could have anticipated. That A'Jani Sanders and Benny Guilbeux knpt their fin­gers in the dam against Michigan until tlw team caught up with thnm was morn important than they wern given credit for. The inexperience of Tony Driver showml ­his effort, however, was ~~xcell1mt. C1~rtain people on the offensive line blocked absolutely no one (for tlw second consecu­tive week) -I'll break down tlw films with anyone to prove it. I low many times as a pulling guard to protect .Jarious on a roll out did they run right past thn defensive pursuers? All of our best players are not on tl111 field. The cfpcisions makers must lm questioned in every regard. Changes need to be made (the White house is only the beginning). 
Obviously every01w is upset. It is impor­tant to remember that one win last week does not make a season. Neither docs mw loss. 
Kevin Patrick is in the final year ofthe JD/MBJ\ program. lie bleeds blue and gold and thinks the coaches should apologize to the thousands offam; who made the trip to East Lansing for that performance. lie can be reached at kevin. d.patrick.l G@nd. edu, /lis column usually appears euery other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, September 1 5, 1998 ------------------os~£RvER ------------------------------------------------page II 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR • PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Keep Hope 
Alive This Year 
I low many of you students out there renwmbnr last year's foot­ball season? I low could you for­get?! We barely ddeated Georgia T1~ch in our home-opennr. went on to lose four straight gamos and endod the season with a dis­mal 7-l> n~corrl. As a result. many students at this school gave up on our football team aftnr its lack­lustnr start. stoppnd chonring for them. and l1)t our school spirit slick into the gutter. 
Homember how empty the stu­d!)nt section was at tlw Navy and West Virginia ganws'? Those of us who attended those games had quite a bit of room to move around. 
It looks like this season is ofT to a similar start after Saturday's loss. But this year. no matter what happPns throughout the s1mson. do not givt) up on our­football team. Those mon who practiCI) for hours oach day and strive so hard to makl) Notre Damn football as elassy and extraordinary as it is deserve the student body's full support. respect and encouragement. 
So forget about last yoar's 7-6 season, forget about this sum­mer's scandals. forget about Saturday's loss to Michigan State. Get out thern and clHlN for our football t1)am. Continue to root for them. for the Irish will soon again march onward to victory! Our guys deserve it and it's the least wn can do for tlwm. I'll see you in tlw stands. 
Brian D. Tomcik 
Senior, Keenan Hall 
September 13. 1998 
Are your roommates sick of hearing you whine? Do it here instead. 
Observer. Viewpoint .1@ nd.edu 
War Machines Not to Be Admired 
When I was a kid I used to love to go to air shows. I loved all tho big fighter planes that looked so eool, slick and moan. I loved the air eraft carriers and how serious and tough everything looked. I loved the technical wonder of the planes, learning about how fast they eould go and the different maneuvers they were capable of. I loved to sit in the planes, put on tho helmet and pretend I was !lying it. I would press all kinds of buttons and make sound effects like I 
Sheila McCarthy 
was dropping bombs while skillfully man!luvering out of the enemy's range of lire. But most of all I loved the atmos­phere. It was always a big party with lots of' people having picnics and kids run­ning around everywhere; everyone happy and in awe of these incredible tri­umphs in technology and military prowess. 
I hadn't thought about these memories in quite a while, but the talk given by Fr. Frank Cordaro and Fr. Larry Morlan yes­tnrday about their civil disobedienee at Andrews Air Foree Base Air Show last May 17 got me thinking 
about it. 
The two dioG{lSan priests, along with two Dominican sisters and one laywoman, a grandmoth­er, named the planes for what they are --weapons of mass destruction. They did this action on the 30th anniversary of' what has become known as The Catonsville Nine, where brothers and priests Phil and Dan Berrigan, along with seven others dumped napalm on draft files and lit them in a legendary symbolic act of resistanee to the Vietnam War. 
These five called them­selves "Gods of Metal Plowshares" drawing on Levitieus 19:4, "Do not turn to idols and do not east metal gods for your­self. I am the Lord your God," as well as Isaiah 2:4, "they will hammer their swords into plow­shares, their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift sword against nation, no longer will they learn how to make war." 
The five acted to turn these gods of metal into plowshares, or at least take a few good wacks at them with hammers before being arrested, as others have done before them in the last 18 years of the Plowshares movement. The opening words of the Statement of The Catonsville Nine was included in the Gods of Metal Plowshares Statement: "Our apologies, good friends, for the fracture of good order ... We could not so help us God, do otherwise. For we are sic.~ at heart, our hearts give us no rest 
For them, it was a matter of divine obedience to a God that teaches love of enemies. overcoming evil with good, for­giving one's murderers, and taking up the eross rather than the sword in the spirit of redemptive suffering rather than redemptive violence. Thank God for that fracture of good order, when good order is death as social method. 
A B-52 was ehosen as the site of the witness because of its extensive use in Vietnam and the Gulf War. The protest­ers hammered at the weapon a total of 30 times (to mark the Catonsville anniversary) and then poured their own blood on the plane in order to show the hundreds of onlookers (including three young boys that were standing in the bomb bay during the aetion) that the B­52 is a weapon of mass destruction, that hidden beneath the gaiety, not men­tioned or on display are "tangled bodies, mangled limbs, destroyed lives, ruined towns, daily terror," as Fr. Larry said. Through the blood poured on the B-52, the blood of those who died in the work of that plane was allowed to be seen and to cry out. 
After this they read their Statement, stating their purpose: "To unmask the idolatry of these gods of metal, celebrat­ed in this nuclear liturgy of the Air Show. We publicly and openly offer dis­armament, in a sacred liturgy on behalf of life, to nonviolently and lovingly dis­arm these weapons of mass murder enlleshing the imperative of Isaiah, to hammer swords into plowshares. We plead for the cause of peace with justice and the abolition of war. To celebrate God as True Security rather than aecept weapons and violence as restorers or maintainers of peace. We pour out our own blood as a sign of our willingness to lay down our lives rather than take life from another. To announce that weapons and their carriers in space, air, sea and land are in faet idols-gods of metal. Our trust in them amounts to 
worship. We must not applaud, eelebrate or worship them for they defile all of ere­ation." 
I haven't been able to stop thinking about those children in the pictures that Fr. Frank and Fr. Larry showed. The kids, all under 10, pointing guns and being taught how to aim and pull trig­gers. I wonder especially about the three young boys that were elosest to the Plowshares during the witness. I wonder what they thought, what I would have thought if that had happened at a air show I went to as a kid. 
I would have probably been shocked. maybe even horrified and very confused. It certainly would have got me thinking. I didn't connect any of the planes or sub­marines that I played in to war, and cer­tainly not to killing people. It was just fun. And children ought never to be taught to make instruments that kill and maim into objects of fun. The air shows I went to were all glorifications of violence disguised under a carnival like atmos­phere amid picnic baskets and coolers, all directed at the imagination of chil­dren. 
So how did I get from a fascination with fighter planes and the military and wanting to be a marine to becoming a pacifist'? It was a gradual process, as I started to realize that my imaginary war games would in reality result in death. death by my own hands. I eamn to a greater understanding of my faith. believing in the inherent dignity of every human person as a ehild of' God. I hogan to read the gospels, and writn down things that struek me. 
One of the first things I wrote down was from Matthew 11:16-17, where Jesus says, "To what ean I compare this generation'? It is like children who sit in the town square and call to eaeh other, 'we played the llute for you but you did not dance, we sang a dirge but you did not mourn'" 
To hear the dirge, we have to admit our country's part in the 200 billion deaths due to war in this century. Trusting completely in the machinery of death, Americans think little about what it means to spread terror and violence. We have to look at how our consumption of a disproportionate amount of' the world's resourees results in our having the biggest military in the world. We have to look at Notre Dame --tho altar stone of the Basilica contains the bones of Saint Marcellus, who was martyred 1700 years ago thisOct. 31 for throwing down his arms, for he had been a centu­rion, and saying, "It is not fitting for a 
Christian man who 
serves Christ the Lord to serve human powers," while we have more students on HOTC scholarships than any other nonmilitary institu­tion. 
Steve 13aggarly, who on Ash Wednesday 1997 did a Plowshares witness at Bath Iron Works in Maine with five others, writes of Mt 11:16-17, "To retain our humani­ty, we must mourn. And our mourning must lead to repentance. Only fhen ean we hear the 11ute play the liberating tune of disarmament. The government won't dance, so the peo­ple must. For amid the din of war and preparations for war, God still speaks words of 
life: "Thou shalt not kill," "Love your neighbor as yourself," "Heturn good for evil," "Love your enemies." An invitation to beeome children of God, to take up the eross rather than the sword. The molody of nonviolent resistance beckons to us all, for the sake of children in town squares everywhere." 
So we must mourn. There will be a prayer vigil at 5:30 outside of Pasquerilla Center, the ROTC building, today and every Tuesday because mourning will lead to repentance. Perhaps one day we will danee. 
Sheila McCarthy is a sophomore theol­ogy major with a concentration in peace studies. She can be reached at mcarthy. 93@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe Progressive Student Alliance or The Observer. 




THE H 
"A I I y McBeal"­Mondays 
on FOX at 
8p.m. 
9p.m. 
"Moesha"­Tuesdays on UPN at 8p.m. 
ByJOEY LENISKI 
Scene Writer 
Every era since the advent of the vacuum tube has witnessed the rise -and cancella­tion-of a television program which captured the hearts of the generation loyally tuned in each and every week. "I Love Lucy," "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," "M.A.S.H" and "Cheers" all established their legendary status long before their final good-byes. Ours is a generation which has seen the final curtain close on another TV saga just months ago, and not since NBC pulled 'The Tony Danza Show" from the airways has such lingering emptiness been felt across a culture. So what refuge do we find in the coaxial kingdom of the post-"Seinfeld" era? The Observer previews the upcoming television season, sepa­rating the "hits" from the "hype" and helping the Notre Dame student find boob-tube 
bliss in a world without "Seinfeld" ... or Tony Danza. 
MONDAY 

The fall staple for ABC will once again be Monday Night Football. The unexpected but solid popularity of the sitcom "Everybody Loves Raymond" has brought it back as the anchor for the CBS line-up. Then we have two of the most sexually charged and risqul~ shows in primetime in the forms of "Melrose Place" and "Ally McBeal" on FOX, and two of the most numbingly-boring shows pretending to stand alone in the forms of "Suddenly Susan" and "Caroline in the City." On the WB, critically-acclaimed "7th Heaven" returns thanks to its status as a truly successful "family" program. 
Hoping to receive a boost by the "Cosby" show lead-in, "King of Queens," stars Kevin James in a promising "comic to TV star" vehi­cle, while "L.A. Doctors" tries to avoid being stereotyped as an "ER" clone by focusing more on the morality of a hospital setting rather than the mortality. The UPN has some show about Abraham Lincoln's butler (?) which should not be serving up laughs for long. The WB is heavily promoting "llyperion Bay," a post-adolescent drama starring Zach ... er ... Mark-Paul Gosselar, who has not fared as well on the entertainment frontier as most of his Bayside com­rades. This attempt may just be another yuppie "902-0h no!" 
Snow STOPPER-"ALLY McBEAL" 
One summer removed from winning the Golden Globe for best TV comedy and for best actress Calista Flockhart, the sleeper-hit of the 97-98 season brings the quirky and hip comedy to another level. Surrounded by the same undeniably attractive cast, which somehow manages to involve themselves in the situations whimsical Miss McBeal creates for herself, this season our heroine will have a new boyfriend, more working-girl problems and a righteous pad over­looking the hub of Bah-strm. 
SCENE STEALER-"WILL & GHACE" 
This is a very hyped and daring comedy on NBC that might actual­ly outlive its tired veteran companions "Susan" and "Caroline." The premise is very "Object of My Affection," as we follow the lives of a soulmate searching woman (Debra Messing) and her soul-mate (Eric McCormack), who happens to be ... you guessed it. gay. Although the idea sounds familiar, dealing with homosexuality in any comedy is a touchy thing (just ask Ellen) and could provide some intriguing laughter and tears. 
TUESDAY 

The king of Tuesday night, Tim Allen, returns for an eighth season of grunts, groans and garages, but now faces real competition from "King of the Hill", the heir-apparent 

Kevin James and Leah Rimini of CBS's "King of Queens". 
Photo courtesy of CBS 

to the primetime cartoon throne which has made the bold move to the weekday. Child­star Rick (groan) Schroder replaces Jimmy Smits on "NYPD Blue," but the ace writing and solid acting should keep the boys of "Blue" from ending up 187. "Mad About You" continues to follow the Buckman couple in the second season of the post-baby birth era. Finally, mean and sarcastic "Just Shoot Me" with the mean and sarcastic David Spade could prove to be the crown prince to the "Seinfeld" legacy if it retains the kind of popularity it garnered last season. 
"Sports Night" on ABC has the makings of a great drama. starring former "Benson" actor Robert Guilliame and benefiting from the penmanship of playwright Aaron Sorkin, who wrote the powerful "A Few Good Men." Loud, obnoxious comedienne Sue Costello brings "Southie" attitude to "Costello" on FOX which should head south soon into the season. The appealing Nathan Lane stars in "Encore! Encore!," a new vehicle from the producers of "Cheers" and "Frazier" which is worth at least a first look on NBC, while the UPN brings us "Mercy Point," a risky sci-fi venture chocked full of in 
Snow STOPPEII-"BUFFY TilE VAMPIRE SLAYEII" 
This cult favorite continues to thrive due to creative storytelling and hip young cast. The start of the season pits Buffy (blonde goddess Sarah Michelle Gellar of "I Know What You Did Last Summer) against ex-beau and arch-devil Angle (David Boreanaz) in a cataclysmic battle sure to please the "Gen-X Files" fan base. (Sept. 29th on the WBJ 
Amy Jo Johnson, Scott Foley. Scott Speedman, and Keri

ScENE STEALEII-"FEI.ICITY" 
Russell star in The WB's "Felicity". 

Called "Ally McBnal gons to college" by Mr. Showbiz online, this highly anticipated Photo courtesy of The WB show follows the life of a freshman (Keri Hussell) as she struggles with life, love, and the decisions about both. Hussell is a natural attraction for the camera. and her equal­ly alluring young co-stars make "Felicity" a potential fave for the college demographic. 
(Sept. 29th on W/3) 


FS~ 
-· 
O THE 
page 13

·..day, September 15, 1998 BSERVER 

S&THE HYPE 


WEDNESDAY 
ABC's veteran line-up of "The Drew Carey Show" and last year's surprise "Dharma and Greg," with the twt~r charismatic Jenna Elfman. return for another year of laughs. "News Hadio" will seek to forge on with tht) humor despite the tragic loss of star Phil Hartman. and "Law and Order" continues to have wide­sprt~ad app!)al well into its eighth season. 
Snow SToPPI'IIS-"BEVEHLY HILLS 9021 0", "PAnTY oF FtvE" AND "DAwsoN's CnEEK" 
What Wednesday would be eomplete without the start of new melodramatic. angst-riddled seasons for our favoritt) collegn soaps? For "90210" (Sept. 16), it's out with the old. in with the ... older? Bad boy Dylan McKay (Luke Perry) returns from a failed movie stint (who says art doesn't imitat!) life?) to replace Brandon (Jason Priestly), who splits after his marriage goes kaput with Kelly (Jennie Garth). 
P05 (Sept. HJ) returns to a more credulous story-line as Charlie (Matthew Fox) who's cancer went into remission, now faces fatherhood with his pregnant girlfriend Daphne. Julia (Neve Campbell) seems to be headed ofT to college (or is that another "Scream" film?), Bailey (Scott Wolf) and Sarah (Jennifer Love llewitt) slept together and now faee the real ehallenge of establishing a relationship, and Claudia. well. she is still whining. 
Things eontinue to get hot for the WB's immensely popular but notoriously mature Dawson's Creek (Sept. 7th). Ever loquacious Dawson (Srott Van Der Beekl still languishes over his rhildhood mate Joey (Katie llolmes), the very "outgoing" Jen (Mkhelle Williams) and his best pal (Joshua Jackson). But the tor­rid subjec:t matter and n~surrertion of the controversial "lusty tearher" story line is sure to eause major ripples in the "Creek" this season. 
SCENE STEALEIIS-"SEVEN DAYS" ANI> "CnAnMtm" 
In "Seven Days," a time-traveling agent (Jonathan LaPaglia) is sent back in time a Ia Time Cop to right a wrong a Ia Quantum Leap. A shop-worn premise. but with intriracies which should prove entertaining. (0r.t.7 on UPNI In what Tinw Magazine calls a "surprisingly fun" show. "Charmed" has three sistnrs !Shannon Doherty. Alyssa Milano and !lolly Marie Combs) living in a ereepy old house and discovering that they are all witches. But that is real life ... on the show they possess special powers whirh. combined with thnir indclibln personalities, rause mayhem every which way. ((Jet. 7 on W/3) Both series promise to be a nice reprieve from the grind of regular network programming. 
THURSDAY 
With the demise of' the "show about nothing." "Frazier" has claimed the throne atop the must-sec-TV kingdom, and from the greatest time slot in primetime ruins over new scasons of "Vcronica's Closet." "EB" and "Friends." (all Sept. 24th). But the WB answers with "must-clone-TV" and all-new episodes of "The Wayans Bros.." "The Jamie Foxx Show." "The Steve Harvey Show" and "For Your Love." 
Snow STOI'I'EIIS-"ER" ANI> "FmENns" 
Aft1~r four years of' fast paced. hard-hitting, lump-in-the-throat drama. the rat­ings juggm·naut "EH" promises not to slow down on th1~ way through thr emer­gency room. Expect much of the same from doctors Greene (Anthony Ed\\'ardsl. Carter (Noah Wyle), Benton (Eriq LaSalle), and Corley !Alex Kingston). but prepare for the inevitable departure of Doug Ross (George Clooney). who's medir,al license runs out after this season. 
So it is Hache! or the British chick? 1\oss fans want to know when the season opemw of' "Friends" reveals what happened following the dif'fhanger wedding last year. Despite not gaining the "Seinfeld" vacancy and the lukewarm pseudo-movie stardom for many of the principles, "Friends" stays popular due to fresh writing, well-known rhararters and that theme song that's so annoying and ratchy it is addicting. 
St:ENE STEALEII-"JESSE" Assuming the most coveted hammock-position in primetime. "Jesse" (Sept. 24 on NBC) aims to fare much better than former slot occupants "Union Square" and 
_......
"The Single Guy." It stars former "Married With Children" bimbette Christina 
Applegate as a single rose weaving her way between a plethora of male thorns as 
she tries to raise her child, slave as a waitress and just maybe find the meaning of 
Photo courtesy of NBC 
life. Or a man. which ever comes first. The "one woman struggling alone against the odds" may be formulair and cliche by now, but in that time slot do you really have any choice but to watch it? 
FRIDAY, SATURDAY, & SUNDAY 
With the exception of Sunday night. most of the eollege demographic; is virtually unaware that there arP l!~l1wision programs on at all during the weekend evenings. A few of' the returning Friday veterans inf'ludc "Boy Meets World," "Sabrina. thr. Tncnage Witch," the a.ction/eomedy "Nash Bridges" and the dark apot:alypse drama "Millm1nium." Saturday primtime includes the lukewarm shows "Early Edition" and tlw right1~ous "Walker. Texas Hanger," plus the surviving members of the NBC thl'ill-ogy "The l'rt•teiHIPr" and "Profiler." Sunday programming has n1wcr been stronger, with ABC's rourtroom drama "Tlw l'rarliel'" premiering for ABC on Sept. 27. the human spiritual drama "Tourhed by an Angel" open­ing on CBS Sept. 20th. and the drama of thn hilariously absurd. the ever-resilient "The Simpsons" whirh lwgins its nPW season SPpt. 20th. 
1\arh of' tlw networks arn banking on their consistent weeknnd rating-cows to help promote the new programs. AI!C hopes a remakP of thn XO's hit "Fantasy Island" starring Malcom McDowell and Madrhen 1\mirk will haw vi<~wers visiting frequently. but without Tattoo scrnaming "Le plane! Ln plane!" the audi­f'nrt• probably will not waslf' tlw trip. CBS hopes to resurrect the dying detnetive show with "Buddy Faro." in which a grf'Pn investigator (Frank Whaley, the guy that gnts blown away by Samuel Jackson in l'ulp Jo'irlionl teams up with a burnt out 1'1 from tlw 70's (played by Dennis Farina. the guy that gets his nosf' brokf'n by John Travolta in (;et Shorty). And finally. Fox is trying to capture today's youth market by imitating a staple of 70's television with "That 70's Show," a show of virtually unknowns which bla­tantly and romirally abusf' surh things as tePn drug use, free love. and polyester. It could be this sea­son's "King of thP Ifill" rhamp. or last year's "lliiiPr and DillPr" c.hump. 
S11ow SToi'I'I·:n-"TIIF X-F11.1's" 
.\f!t·r fivP seasons and a fpature film out last sumnwr. MuldPr and Scully and the n~st of "Tlw X-Files" team pn•pan• for tlw winds of chang<~. or is it invasion'? ThP season opener (Nov. Hthl will answer ques­tions fpf't by tlw rlil'lhangnr from last year. as wPII as continuing to devdop the plot. revelations from the big srrnf'n. A shif't from Vancouwr to Los Angel<~s should brighten the mood of' the principles (David llurhovny and Cillian Andnrson). but will not al'l'ect the t01w of the show, according to rrnator Chris Carlf'r. Things for X-l'hilns to watch for this year: dissent within the shadowy Syndicate, whispers of war ht•twnPn tlw alit~n rac<~s and furtlwr developnwnt of the sexually-tense relationship between our two l'avoritP FBI agents. 


FOX's "X-Files"  
Photo courtesy of FOX  
....  

-------~-~-------------~-~--~~-------­
,.-----------­

~--------~-~------~--­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, September 15, 199 
·­

Mets stay in wild card hunt with 7-4 victory 
Associated Press The switch-hitting McRae hit his 21st home run. but 
Major League Baseball Stats

HOUSTON only the second as a right­Brian McRae hit a tying homer in the hander. Piazza led off the 
AMERICAN LEAGUE NATIONAL LEAGUE

ninth inning. then hit a two-run double ninth with a single and in the 13th as the New York Mets pre­McRae followed with his vented Houston from clinching the NL homer, giving Wagner his 
w L PCT GB w L PCT GB

Central. beating the Astros 7-4 Monday fourth blawn save in 3 3 Eastern Division 
Eastern Division

night. chances. NYYarikees J ··············.·······103 44\101 ~i The Mets. who began the day one Astros starter Jose Lima Atlanta 95 55 .633 game behind Chicago in the wild-card retired the first two batters Boston 83 64 .565 20 
NY Mets 83 67 .553 12 

race. trailed 4-2 when McRae hit a of the game before Olerud Toronto 8J.!::&a ,$44 23 .· 
Philadelphia ·Jo 79 .470 24

two-run homer off Astros relief ace doubled. Piazza followed Baltimore 76 72 .514 27 Billy Wagner in the ninth. Montreal 59 91 .393 36
with his 31st homer, a shot Tamp~ Bay ..; .. ·. ).89. ($~p/
In the 13th. Edgardo Alfonzo led off that just missed the upper ) 58 Florida 49 101.327 46 with a double and continued to third deck in center field. Central Division 
Central Division

when right fielder Derek Bell mis­Mets starter Masato >.Cielie~ played the ball for an error. John 
Houston 96 54 .640 Olerud grounded out and Mike Piazza. 1 Chicago Cubs 
84 66 .560 12

~:~~·~ii:~~:i ~~ros~i{~o~~~~ ..•.• ·~~~;~$ocf;ite sox ···...•.. ~~ ,,,., ~~•• •+ :~~ /~~)
who had four hits, was intentionally 
sttouis
.......;.. 76 .490 22 

i . walked by Mike Magnante (4-7). an RBI double. Jeff Bagwell Minnesota 65 83 .439 16 
Milwaukee 70 80 .467 26

I ' McRae followed with his go-ahead singled home a run and ···'Detro~ 92\ ;3$S '25i•. 
double off Doug Henry and later scored Everett hit his 14th homer. Cindnnati 69 81 .460 27
Western Division

on a wild pitch. Everett equaled his 
Pittsburgh 67 81 .453 28Greg McMichael (4-4} was the win­career high of 14 homers · Anaheim 
Western Division

ner. John Franco got his 37th save, with the Mets in 1997, and 
Texas 79 69 .534 1 

breaking his own team record. raised a fist skyward as he San Diego 94 56 .627 
For the second straight day, the trotted down the first-base · P~kland .... ':: :P.Q /19: <.466 .. u 
Sanfranclsto 80 69 .537 13 

Astros blew a late lead in a bid to line. The Mets traded Seattle 67 80 .456 12 Los Angeles 76 74 .507 18
clinch their second consecutive NL Everett to Houston in the Central title. On Sunday night, St. Louis offseason for John Hudek. Colorado 72 79 .477 22 rallied in the eighth inning for a 3-2 After Everett's homer, An zona 59 91 .393 35 win. keeping Houston's magic number Yoshii retired the next 15 at one. batters in a row until 
Boston on Monday night. with a good fastball, Hernandez keptThe Astros scored four times in the Bagwell singled with two outs in the The Red Sox, who appeared to be a the Red Sox off balance all night. liefirst. highlighted by Carl Everett's sixth inning. Yoshii pitched six innings lock for the AL wild card only a few gave up a leadoff single in the first. ahomer, but were held scoreless for the and allowed four hits. 
weeks ago. lost for the ninth time in 11 bloop single in the fourth and a triplefinal 12 innings. Houston had a runner games. in the sixth on a ball that should have
at third with one out in the 11th, but Yankees 3, Red Sox 0 
Fortunately for Boston, it remained been caught.

failed to score. 
three games ahead of Toronto in the The Yankees did the little things.
Piazza hit a 480-foot, two-run homer The Red Sox came to the wrong town wild-card race as the Blue Jays lost 6-3 playing solid defense and taking thein the first inning. The All-Star catcher to try and stop their September slide. 

in Cleveland. extra base when needed to scratch outalso made a key play in the eighth with Orlando "El Duque" Hernandez 
Hernandez (10-4) outdueled Ramon the three runs and end a three-game
the Mets trailing 4-2, retrieving a pitch pitched a three-hitter for his first Martinez (18-6), who lost to the losing streak. New York (104-44} needsby Jeff Tam that went to the backstop shutout and the New York Yankees Yankees for the second time in a week. eight wins in its last 14 games to set anand recovering to throw out Craig gave the Red Sox and their fans more 
By mixing an array of breaking balls AL record for wins in a season.

Biggio at the plate. to worry about with a 3-0 win over 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar rhe Norre Dame office, 024 Sourh Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next­
day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds musr be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
NEED A JOB? The Food 
Service Support Facility is look­ing for student employees. 
Flexible hours to fit your sched­ule 6 AM to midnight. $5.95/hr. Call1-5417 MWF b/w 2-4 or T/Th b/w 11-1. 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
We're Open A Lot!!! 
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight 
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm 
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm 
Sun: Noon -Midnight 
When you need copies, 
we're open I 
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,? Free Parties $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen $149!1998 BBB Award Winner!springbreaktravel.com 
1-800-678-6386 
WANTED 
TRUMPET. SAX, ELEC.GUITAR AND BASS PLAYERS FOR NO SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @ 1 HR/WK! SPRING TOUR AND MANY OTHER FUN EXPERI­ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573 
ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... "TAKE 2" 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 SALES and... EARN$$$$. 
Jamaica,Cancun.Bahamas,Fiorid a,Padre!Lowest prices!Free Meals,Parties & Drinks. 
..Limited Offer•·. 1800-426­771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com 
COACHES: ELEMENTARY BOYS+GIRLS SOCCER.VOLLEY­BALL.BASKETBALL 
responsible,dependable,students or grads to coach 5th-6th grade or 7-8th grade teams.AII seasons open Sept-Oct;Nov-Dec;Jan-Mar for south side elementary school.located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.Must be available for practices Mon-Thurs from 1:30­
2:30 or 2:15-3:15.Game schedule varies with games beginning after school at 4:00-6:00 p.m. Paid posi­tion.Call 291-4200 to apply. 
SOCCER REFEREES-needed for south side elementary school,located near Scottsdale Mall on Miami Street.$20.00 per game to qualified refs.Call 291-4200 
I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" !­shirts for me and my dad. If you sell them or have a few extra, please help me out. Call Michelle at 4­0562. 
Female Grad student looking for Rmmt. Castle Point Apt rent & exps aprox 325 mo. 277-3664 
Mentor/tutor wanted for 14 yr. old hearing-impaired girl. She wears hearing aids & reads lips. Would prefer female hearing-impaired tutor/mentor, but will consider all. Call 272-8235 or email­buslink@ sprynet.com. 
Tutor for IUSB college soph Physics & calculus. Student likes to work ahead and can come to you. Call 272-8235 or email­buslink@ sprynet.com. 
Tutor for home-schooled. high school senior. Subjects-Govt, Econ, Eng grammer & comp. Prefer male tutor, but will consider all. Student can come to you days/evenings.Call 272-8235 or email-buslink@ sprynet.com. 
NO Prof and spouse seeking turn. place. Nov-Dec '98;near cam­pus pref.Tel/fax 403-885­4136,D.Bergen 
DUNGARVIN INDIANA OFFERS A TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY TO SUPPLEMENT YOUR INCOME 
We are an organization commit­ted to responding to the choices of people with developmental disabili­ties, and respecting those choic­es.We do this by providing habilita­tion training and respite care.We offer a unique training program designed for compliance and quali­ty.We will train all of those who have the heart and desire for this type of social service,a nd meet the minimum entry requirements. 
We have a service site near you, and offer a variety of schedules which may accomodate a student's schedule favorably.Our positions start at $8.50 per hour and there are many benefit options. 
Dungarvin has career options within the company, as we provide services throughout the U.S.If you would like more information,call our Employment lnfoline at 888-297­
~85-82._F_O_R__R£__N_T__~I 
1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800­418-9487. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­PUS. 
219-277-6832. 
BED AND BREAKFAST. FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM­PUS. 
219-277-6832. 
3 bdrm duplex, stove, refrig, 
wid. $200/ea. or $600/mo. + util­ities. 503 N.Eddy 273-8332 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REG­ISTRY info: http://Business.michiana.org/bnbr eg 219-291-7153. 
THE PRIMROSE PATH 
BED AND BREAKFAST-LOCAT­ED 15 MINUTES NORTH OF CAM­PUS HAS OPENINGS FOR FOOT­BALL WEEKENDS.LOVEL Y HIS­TORIC INN,FULL ELEGANT BREAKFASTS.4 GUEST ROOMS,A/C,CABLE TV.2 NIGHTS REQUIRED.$99.00 Call 616-695­6321 
~~___FO__R_S_A_L_E__~ 
AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE 
CARDS 
$20 -198 min. 
Call 258-4805. 
TICKETS 
Need 1STANFORD ga, will 
sell or trade 1 ARMY. 
Call Michael x1951. 
I NEED GA TIXS TO ALL HOME GAMES. 272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
NO Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 
NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA­only 
674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
NO FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
Needed:Two BC tickets.Willing to buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue or two Stanford tix. 
Call617-248-7046 
Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048 
Need 5 Purdue GAs Call x3501 Eric 
I need 1 Navy Tix 634-1841 
I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby brother and his friend (a prospec­tive). If you can help me, please call 4-0562 . 
Ask for Michelle. 
FOR SALE 
2 Stud. Tix 
All Home Games 
can be converted 
4-3888 
.NEED 1-3 Baylor GAs 4-3888 

Have two LSU GA's.Would like to trade for two Purdue GA's.Call 1­800-324-2653 x4679. 
PERSONAL 

II 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! 
Cancun ,Jamaica, Mazatlan,& S.Padre.Early bird savings until Oct. 31 st.America's best prices and packages.Campus sales reps want­ed. Earn free trips + cash. 1.800.SURFS.UP 
www.studentexpress.com 
FAX IT FAST!!! 
Sending & Receiving 
at 
THE COPY SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center 
Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 
FAX IT FAST!!! 

DO YOU LIKE TO PLAY SNOOKER? (just for fun, of course). Call 683-9856, 6PM to 10PM 
If a tree falls on a mime in the middle of a forest and no one is around to hear anything ....... does anyone really care??? 
Has anyone seen Sean 0? 

I wish our printer would work!! 
What is Snooker anyway? 

• CollEGE FooTBALl 
olverines drop to 0-2, out of national polls 

Ii.1esday, September 15, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
A"ociatcd Press tackle Jon Jansen said Monday. "As a team, we can't ANN AHHOH, Mich. look at anybody else. We've got 
What's wrong with to look at ourselves, look in the 1irhigan? It's a qlll~stion some mirror." d' tlw Wolverines are asking The Wolverines startnd the IH•msnlvns. soason rank1HI No. 5 in The 
With most of thn startnrs Associatnd Press poll. 1ack from a tPam that won a A 3(J-20 loss in the opnnPr at wtional !'.hampionship last Notre Dame droppnd them to 
1'1LS111l, thP W11lvnrinns worn 13th and a humiliating 3H-28 ·xpP<'tnd to makP a snrious bid drubbing by Syracuse on 1! anotlwr titln. lnstPad. tlwy Saturday knocked thn 11'1' tlw first dnfPIHling champi­Wolverines ofT tlw Top 25 list ,n !.11 start 0-2 sincP l'l'nn State allogetlwr. vent o-:l in 11JH:l. "If you ask me what's going 
!low could tlll'y go front on and what's happnning, it's lynasty to disarray so quir.kly'? still a surprisn," said .Jansen, "That's a hard question to who has benn a co-1:aptain the 'IIISWI'r right now," ofTnnsive last two years. "Hut we can't 
GRAFFITI DAMCI 
time with the 
(cu~~~ ©ff n~~~ 
Wednesday, September 16 7-8:30 pm at Alumni Senior Club and $.99 pizza 
www.nd.edu/-class99 
-
-
-
-
dwell on these losses any more. We have to focus on the games ahead." 
Right now, the Wolverines don't even have the best record in Washtcnaw County. That honor goes to Eastern Michigan I1-1 ). which happens to be Michigan's nu.xt oppo­nent. 
Jansen said some of' the seniors called a meeting Sunday night to work out the Wolvnriiws' problnms. lin said the tnam's leaders wern con­cernml about tlw mood of' tlw players. 
"Hight now, I think it's ... " and Jansnn's voice trailed ofT. "It's not confused. We know what happened. But after any loss you come away a little bit angry, a liltle bit mad. 
"I think you'll see some of' that Saturday when we come out against Eastern Michigan." 
Michigan coach Lloyd Carr doesn't quite agree that his team is in disarray. But, what­ever it is. he donsn't like it. 
''I'm not down. I'm mad," said Carr, who conceded after the Syracuse loss that the team wasn't very well coached. 
Thn team's problems involve every phase of the game: of'fensn, def'nnse and special teams. 
The Wolverines have rushed 
for just 307 yards in their first 
two games. They have lost two 
of' four fumbles and taknn 14 
penalties for 108 yards while 
being outscored 74-48. 
"We have to be able to run 
the football," Carr said. "That. 
in my judgement. is the No. 1 
thing we have to get better at. 
Defensivoly, we have to be 
much more aggressive." 
No defense at Michigan had given up 30 or more points in successive games since 1935 before Saturday. 
Last year. when the 
Wolverines had the top 
The Palm Ill" connected organizer keeps 
track of what's due and other tmportant stuff. like your cute lab partner's phone number and Saturday's parties. 


Touch the HotSync• button Ia exchange and back up info wit~ your PC Ieven download e-mail' you haven't read yet). About the only thing it can't do to make your life easier is write thai paper. Orgamzers -from Palm Computing start as low as $299". For an authorized Palm Ill retailer or campus computer store, call t-800-242-9005 or VISII www.palmcampus.com. 
Palm Ill' 

"US suurr.oo:•lllf'JimUIC14).1t'olttriS:?!9 AIIPIKUUS :Ostprl':'l IM,xPxCorntdltrl\ltrwqUitidiOIMJCilliWltort~~::lrY'"' 
WlldUPIIJ'o,. Pa/m'f.JJrl .)1'1d hrtn.. liJ6r~JI10'.5 ¥ld vrn• fon~1 :o dtS~IOL \Oft.Vlti 1'101 ~V.t~~~~~~ lor M.lCrllltnh. U~&lll tf'Hrtu'J'\ ~Ialii d'hl~ p..rty WIUIIlllll $!tid HD.trJU.Iy : 1~J6 J~om fl!l~ Y.'~ ll'lf ):MIIOQtl, blmCIJ!;putrng, J";j Ho1$'flC 31t r~r;lt.:t~ trld.tllll~l and him Ill P.llm lh Pilnnlltl90 HOISYY. '·'ll'l •llll"t PJI'II fompullflg pi~~lOI!II lll9fl ,11~ 11:..1f:m.l1U ul PJim {O'f';.vt~ll'. orYurnrfll'l>!,a11(11 

defense in the country, they Trophy, could take the oppo­didn't give up their 74th point nent's best players out of the until the 10th game. game. That allowed the rest of 
Did the loss of cornerback Michigan's defense the free­Charles Woodson affect the dom to take chances. Wolverines that mueh'? And, whenever the Perhaps. Wolverines needed a really big 
Woodson, the first defensive play on offense, Woodson often player to win the lleisman provided that, too. 
• Mt.JOH LEAGU[ BASEBAll 
Atlanta clinches seventh in a row 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 
Seven and counting. 
It doesn't matter whetlwr it's West or East, the Atlanta Braves have managed to trans­form the tricky task of captur­ing a division championship into a rather blase aecomplishment. 
As the baseball world let out a collective yawn. the Braves dinehed their seventh straight division crown Monday, win­ning the NL East with a 4-2 vie­tory over the Philadelphia Phillies. 
Atlanta's main goal is secur­ing home-field advantage throughout the NL playoffs. Despite slumping in recent weeks, the Braves remain in a three-way race with llouston and San Diego for the best over­all record in the league. 
"This team is going to be good for a while. We know that," third baseman Chipper .Jones said. "We're not looking ahead to the playoffs right now. We've got home field to play for." 
Atl-anta began its unprece­dented run of title-hoarding in 1991, when still a member of the NL West under the old two­division alignment. Sine!' switching to the East when baseball wnnt to three divisions in each leagu11, the Braves have added four more trophies to their collection, the only excep-Lion bning the strikn.haltnd S!)a­son of 11)94. 
By winning another division title, the Braves moved into some exclusive r.ompany. Among the major pro sports leagues -baseball. NFL, NBA and NIIL-only seven franchis­es have finished first during the regular season at least seven times in a row. 
Two NBA teams, the Boston Celtics and Los Angeles Lakers. are at the top of the list. The Celtics won nine straight Eastem Division titles between 1957 and '65, while tho Lakers were Paeilie Division champions fmm 1982-90. 
The NIIL's Montreal Canadiens won eight straight division titles --'-seven in the Norris, another as part of the Adams-from 1975-82. 
The list of teams with snven straight firsts includes one tPam !'rom each of thP four sports. Along with tlw Braves, there's the Los Angeles Hams (NFL Western winner. 1973-79); Milwaukee Bucks (NBA Midwost winner. 1980, Central champi­on. 198 I-H6); and Detroit Hed Wings (first overall in tlw six­team NIIL, I949-55). 
The run ol' 1990s dominance also has moved the Bravl's to the brink of tlw top spot in overall division titles since baseball went to that format in 1969. 

..---------·-------~ -·~-·--· --~-~--·-~ 
--~---­

page 16 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 15, 1998 
' ...... 
I I 
it . 
l , .. 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 







OFFICE OF 
CAt\-tPU~ ~·11NtSTRY 
103 H<'~burgh library: 631-7800 112 U.Hiin H.11l: 631·52-12 U.:~silic.:~ Offices: 
b31-S46.3 
Web P.:~ge: http://www~IHLeduJ~ministry 
Monday-Friday, Septen1ber 14-18, 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin I-IalL or see your Rector 
Freshman Retreat #18 Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Le\vis, McClinn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin, Zahm 
Tuesday, September 15, 7:00-8:30 pn1, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study-note new location 
Tuesday, Septe1nber 15, 10:00 pn1, Basilica of the Sacred I-Ieart 
Eucharistic Ministry Workshop 
Tuesday, Septen1ber 151 10:00 pn1, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Let:tor Workshop 
vVednesday, Septen1ber 16, 7:00 pn1, Log Chapel 
Part 1 of a Seven-Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Fear of the Lord by Rev. Bill Wack, C.S.C 
Thursda)', September 17, 6:15-7:00 pn1, Hesburgh Library Lounge 
Emmatts Information Night 
Friday-Sunday, Septen1ber 18-20, 6:30pm-5:00 pn1, Five Pines 
Latino First Year Students Retreat 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monda}:·-T1.,1esdays, 11:30-10:00 pm,St. Paurs ChapeL Fisher I-Iall Fridays, 12:00-4:45 pm, Basilica of the Sacred 1-Ieart 
Notre Dame Celebration Choir Rehearsals 
\Nednesdays, 8:00-9:30 pn1, Earth/Science, Rm. 102 The newest choir on campus, offers a spiritual, diverse musical alternative to those vvho \V(mld like to participate in the music n1inistry at Notre Dame, drawing from a rich variety of contemporary, folk, gospel, Taize prayer and traditional sacred music. For details, contact Kilren Schneider-Kirner, 631-9326. 
Student Volunteers needed at University Village Married Student Housing: 
The Parents' Time-Out Cooperative is looking for a fe\.v students to assist with child care (ages 1-4) on Mondays between 9:00-ll:30 a.m. in the Village Comn1unity Cer1ter. Duties \viii include organizing games, assisting with arts and crafts activi­ties, and helping out during snack time. Please contact Alice at 273-1417 or Hae­Jeon at 634-4632. 
-.;· 
~-~----~-----------·~-------~·~----..........~----..-......-..------------~ 
Tuesday, September 15, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS 
•NFL ,. 
Manning learning the ropes in Indy 
Associatec.l Press 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Tlw Indianapolis Colts insistod from tlw day thny madn Peyton Manning tho No. I draft pick that lw was dnsti1wd to have troubln as a rookh~. 
I lis first two NFL games have proven coach .lim Mora and dub pn~sidnnt Bill !'olian knew what tlwy were talking about. 
In losses to Miami and New England. tlw former Tennessee star has bonn int1~rcnpt11d six limns. A snvnnth intercnption was wipnd out wlwn offpnsivn linmnan Tarik (;lenn was cidled for a false start. In addition, Manning has lost onn fumbl!~ while bning sacknd six limns. 
Manning may not bn the nntirn problnm on an off'nnsn that indudPs thn~~~ rookies and two sncond-year playPrs. I!owever. his quarterback rating of 55. I is !.lw sncond-lowPst in the lnagun among starters and he's com­plnted as many (two) touch­downs to opponents as he has to tnammates. 
"You watch the !ilm and it's no fun to watch, you try to learn from it and it is kind of hard to stomach," Manning said Monday. 
Defensively. the Colts have hold their opponents to an aver­age of 120 yards per gamn rush­ing and 176.5 against the pass­ing of Dan Marino and Drew l3ledsoe. 
"The dofnnsn is rnally playing well for us. That's really the frustrating thing, wn're putting them in some bad situations." Manning said. "Wn're t'eally moving the ball wolf. We get down in touchdown and field goal range and turn the ball over." 
Manning, whose father also strugglnd as a rookie aller being the No. 2 overall pick in the 1971 drall by New Orleans, has man­aged to complete 60 percent of his passes (42-of-70) for 490 yards. 
But, Mora calls the turnovers "a casn of us self-destructing.... We're minus seven in the take­away, giveaway ratio. It's very difficult to beat anybody ... when you turn the ball over four times." 
Manning has only a 17.4 rating on third -down passing, going 7­of-17 for 84 yards with three interceptions on third-down plays. 
"We ran the ball the best we've run it. and that's encour­aging," said Mora, who saw Marshall Faulk gain 127 yards on 29 carries and another 60 yards on seven receptions. "I thought we did a pretty good job of picking up the blitz. 
"They blitzed about half the time.... For the most part men­tally, getting somebody on them. 
we did a good job of picking it up." 
Mora didn't hesitate to point out what the problem was Sunday night at New England. 
"The three {interceptions) he threw last night were mostly his fault," Mora said. "A week ago (the opener) there were other factors, but last night Peyton could have eliminated those had he made good decisions." 
The bad decisions concern Mora, but he said he anticipates more. 
"lie's going through some growing pains, but still you don't want him to make those mis­takes," Mora said. "We've just got to continue to work to mini­mize them." 
"You sometimes watch it on film and say, 'That don't look like me out there,'w said Manning, who had only 33 inter­ceptions in1,381 passes with Tennessee. 

-,""' We're No\V In Your
GRAND"\
OPENIN(~ 
Sat.urday , Northwest Corner 
l 
S('ptt-mb~r 19th 
H:OO · 12:.30 ./. 
FtH.•ti~Pri:tt•r. 
Funl 
NOTRE DAME 
'·_../"
-r_) FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
) Portage Road Branch is now Open 
(Across fnnn A1eijer) 
\'J ' ' 

• No-Surcharge ATM 
"' U93
;5:

1 t>!•en lor non-members! 
;> Live

• FREE Checking 
--> Broadcast!

• Drive up Service "' 
• 
Safe Deposit Boxes 

• 
Special lf4t·( Bonus on any ne".rCD 

• 
Home Equity and Car Loans As Low As 7.99l:f APR* 


~~-411 
( 
~ FREE .\ ' 
GIFTS ·,Stop . Jn and Apply for Membership at: 

FOR EVERY 

~34!">7 Portage Road NEW \ ,\CCOUNT!
(219) 277-8959 
•
.. ..
'W 
• 
11! • r;~
" 
Plt•a:<(' till out th1"' tiJrm and drop 1t otr at the Portagt> R(,;,HI (ltlk•·· i.r1 t~>~• (~hgibl(• for the Treastlrt• C'h("i't pnt.•·-\\tmwr,.. 1\llll·~· .ttmo\lllt'l.'d ,...;alunia:• St!ptt•mhtT tmh. Yuu 1lo Jlt•l n~>••d 1¥1 bt• m nHt·ndanee h> Wl!l. 
--------~--------------~---------~.--------·--------~--------------------------~----~ 
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
•NFL 
Packers' Levens out indefinitely 
Associated Press down. either. Either Harris or Jervey will And Raymont Harris was start Sunday at Cincinnati. GREEN BAY, Wis. inactive for the first two games "''ll be ready this weekend," 
The Green Bay Packers got with a bad limp after offseason promised Jervey. who said he through training camp without surgery to repair a broken left was excited for the chance. Dorsey Levens, who parlayed leg. "Yeah, totally. I mean, that's his 44-day holdout into a $25 After the game, Holmgren what I love to do is play run­million contract. sort of downplayed Levens' ning back. I'm real excited, 
Now the defending NFC injury, which occurred when being on Astroturf, too. I love champs will have to get along linebacker Derrick Brooks' turf." without their Pro Bowl half­fourth-quarter tackle pinned Holmgren said he would back for a good chunk of the his right leg awkwardly. have preferred to bring Harris regular season. "Well. it's a little more along slower and to give 
Levens broke his right leg severe than at first we Jervey more time to recover and severely sprained his right thought," Holmgren said from his hamstring and turf 
ankle in Green Bay's 23-15 victory over Tampa Bay on Sunday. 
Levens, who declined com­ment as he left the team's headquarters Monday with his leg in an immobilizer, could miss six weeks or more. 
The fifth-year pro from Georgia Tech was rusty after missing training camp, averag­ing just 2.4 yards on 43 car­ries, but he also served as Brett Favre's favorite outlet for the dump pass, catching15 balls in two games. 
"It's definitely a blow for this team," receiver Antonio Freeman said. "Just getting Dorsey back two weeks ago and then losing him for several weeks? But now it's an oppor­tunity for the backups." 
Levens' backups are banged up, too. 
Travis Jervey aggravated a pulled hamstring Sunday, so the Packers (2-0) went with rookie backup fullback Michael Blair to replace Levens. Jervey, a special teams Pro Bowler, wasn't in the game When Jacquez Green returned a punt 95 yards for a touch-Monday. He said X-rays revealed a fracture of the fibu­la. the smaller of the two bones in the lower leg, which will take at least a month to knit. 
"Surgery doesn't appear to be necessary." Holmgren said. 
He insisted Levens' holdout didn't have anything to do with his getting hurt. Maybe if it was a muscle pull, but not a broken·-fl.one. 
"If you saw the play, actual­ly, I'm thankful it wasn't worse," Holmgren said. "He got his leg pinned underneath him pretty good. And we may have dodged a little bullet here, if there's a silver lining at all." 
Holmgren said he didn't regret using Levens so much ­he got the ball 58 times in two games after not getting hit since the Super Bowl. 
"The injury that took place yesterday, anybody, you could have been in training camp for two years and that would have happened," Holmgren said. "So, one does not have any­thing do to with the other. I don't think we overused him." 
toe injuries, "but I'm running out of choices here." 
Harris, a 1,000-yard gainer for Chicago last year, was going to spend more games on the deactivated list so his leg could hool. 
"I just saw him and said. 'Plan A is out the window and we're moving to Plan B. which is you're going to get ready to go earlier than maybe we would have liked,"' Holmgren said. 
The coach also revealed Monday he was unaware dur­ing the game that Jervey was unavailable for special teams or backfield duty. 
You can bet Holmgren will get frequent updates on both Jervey and Harris this week. And the Packers will have to change their strategy without Levens, who rushed for 1,435 yards and seven touchdowns last year and caught 53 passes for 370 yards and five TDs. 
"To say when you lose one of the top running backs in foot­ball, that won't change any­thing? I think that would be foolish to say that," Holmgren said. 


:~;~~! x::~~"'tlfutdllll" 
Thursday, September17 Stepan Courts 
Co-Ree 6 on 6* 
*Minimum of Two Females on the Court at all Times 
Register a Team in Advance at RecSports 
Deadline: Wednesday, September 16 at 6:00 PM 
TOURNAMENT IS LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS THAT ENTER 


tHIS weeK 1n sua 
ReCRUitment 
Tuesday. LaFun Ballroom. 0730PM-0930PM. 
NITe. 

Thursday. LaFun Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
ACOUSTICAP. 
Florida Evans and The Sampsons. Thursday. Fieldhouse Mall. 
CR:Cs 
0530PM-0800PM. Free Shirts and CD giveaways.
Campus Rock, Chapter One 
• 

A Perfect Murder. Thursday: 0800PM. Friday: 0800PM & 1 030PM. 
mOVIe. 
Saturday: 0800PM &1030PM. Tickets: $2. 




ruesday, September I 5, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
ny drastil' changes on this m, howpvnr. Then~ 's going 
o lw subtle changPs this we1~k." 
For now, norw of those subtle hangPs inl'ludP thn quartnr­ack position. While freshman rnaz Battl1• had an nxcPilnnt 
•rformann~ in l.lw dosing min­tns of Saturday's ganw. llavin onsn't think tlwre will lu~ ~shullling in that ca!l~gory. 
"I thought )Hattln) did SOITIP Hld things," said llavie. "Hight ow, thnrp's no quart1~rback mtrowrsy. liP may gPl a little lrP playing tinw. WP'll take it P slPp at a tinw and see. OUS IIHHIP SOIIH' spectacular in that ganw. (;Piling him 
msistnnt. getting him settled own right. now is our number rw priority." 
For right now, thn football m can atlPmpt to put tlw to thn Spartans out of their 
nd and begin arww. 
l>aviP hnlinvns thn kny to that trhiPving that is n~turning to ·qtrarP onP, not only in tlwir 
cndun•, hut also tlwir schnd­
lP. "1 talkPd to our football tnam lday, and told tlwm we'rn 
ing to play liH~ rnst of' thn ·nason likP wn'n~ 0-0. That's kind of wiH~rn wn are. We play1•d two good Warns. and we had orw r·pa) high and orw real low. Sonwwlwn· in tlw middln ol' that is wlwrl' this l'ootball 

ATH • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll toke technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. 
We have a lot to tell you about the new Raytheon Systems Company and the exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair then check out our website at www.rayjobs.com and please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266. 

-
! 
page 20 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 15, 1998 
I 
1 •r 

I ~ I 
I 
• 

The biggest name in professional services is now, well, the biggest name in professional services. 
You showed them what you were made of at Notre Dame. Now show the world. 
AssuRANCE AND BUSINESS ADVISORY SERVICES  TAX & LEGAL SERVICES  MANAGEMENT CoNSULTING SERVICES  FINANCIAL ADVISORY SERVICES  GLOBAL HR SOLUTIONS  BUSINESS PROCESS OUTSOURCING  
Visit our web site and find out how you can shape the future. www.pwcglobal.com PricewaterhouseCoopers is an equal opportunity employer.  
0 1'JW~ Prict'waterhtJ!I!ieCmJpers LLP. Pricewarerhou~eCoopers refers to the U.S. organization of Pricewatt!rhouseOJopers LLP and othe; membtHS of the worldwide Pricewate~UJ!teGKI(Jer.i organizatitJn.  

-
' 


1esday, September 15, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
Mnls GoLr 
rish place seyenth at Invitational 
<'<ial to The Observer jump past the Irish, with UNM edg­Paraguay) fired his worst round ol' 
ing Notre Dame by a single stroke. the tournament Sunday while fin­Tlu~ Notn~ IJanw nwn 's golf toam The R80 team total (+16) repre­ishing with a share of 35th at 221 ipp<'d to a sovnnlh-place finish sents the fourth-best 54-hole seore (72-73-76). Junior co-captain Todd 
mday in linal-round action at tlw in Notre Dame history, coming up Vernon (Englnwood, Colo.) also fin­l-t<'alll Falcon/Cross Creek seven shots shy of equaling the ished with a 221 total in his home vitat.ional, lwld at tlw par-72. record (8731 set at last year's state, after rounds of74-72-75. :w 1-yurd Eis1~nhower Blue Legends of Indiana tournament. Freshman Kyle Monfort (Dublin, >UrSe. The Irish improved 16 strokes from Ohio) completed a solid debut tour­
Notn~ Dame stood in third place their score at the 1997 Falcon nament with a round of 78, giving 
'tnr l,.riday's opening-round 287 Invitational, when Notre Dame tied him a total of nine-over 225. HI hnld down fourth plaen after for 12th out of 23 teams. Vernon sliced his career average noting a 290 on Saturday before .Junior .Jeff Connell (La Crosse, from 75.39 to 75.28, over 47 
fi nal-ro un d :w :~ i n Sun d a y 's Wis.) led the Irish be finishing tind rounds, and rnmains third on the ·tion, for an HRO total that tied for 26th with a 219 total (71-73-Irish career list (sinee 1954). ith Colorado. ThP 22nd-ranknd 75). Senior eo-captain Brad Hardin Connell used his strong showing to liVPrsity or California wrappml up (Martinsville, lnd.)-who last week move past former teammate Bryan I' tPalll titln (27S-28!i-2 1JS/H521, defeated Connell on the first playoff Weeks into fourth on that list, drop­inning by six strokes over surging holo to win the campus champi­ping his career average over 36 inois, which usnd an impnissivn onship-finished a shot back, tied for rounds f1·om 76.27 to 76.00. tal-round 27!i to vault past the 31st after rounds of 71-72-77. The Hardin's career-best effort ish from li l'th to second. four-over 220 total is a career-best dropped his career average from Nebraska (291-2R!i-2R3/R59) and for Hardin, whose previous best 77.46 to 77.24 (over 58 rounds) oisP Stat<' (2H5-290-290/R65) was a 223 at the Kentucky while Kent has now averaged an aintainnd thoir lead on tho Irish lntereollegiate in the spring of even 74.00 strokes over 17 rounds hiln host Air Foren (300-2R6-199R. with the Irish, since transferring 
'J0/!H>51 and New Mnxico (294-Like each of his teammates, from Saint Louis University prior to 'J4-21J l/H71J) used solid rounds to senior Willie Kent (Asuncion, the 1998 spring semester. 
Where's the best place for the Fighting Irish to try their luck in tax Consulting? 
Deloitte& 

, s
the answer • Touche 
Deloi tte & Touche ; san equal opportunity firm. We recruit, employ, train; compensate, and promote without regard to race, religion, creed, color, national origin, age, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, disability, or veteran status. 
Ct998 Deloi tte & Touche LLP. 

Volleyball 
continued from page 24 
The Belles limght hard in tlw matches on Saturday, enduring live games in nach match. 
Joyce said she thinks that play­ing solid volleyball is their key to execution. Saturday they made fewer. mistakns and focused more intensely to capture the two victories. 
"It was physically and mentally exhausting," Hodovich said, "but we pulled together and did really well." 
Bill led the team in kills over the weekend with 62, followed by Angie Meyers with 40 and Ozbolt with 35. Jolie LeBeau had 16 kills while Jaynn Ozbolt had 
15. Meyers had the loading num­ber of digs, 71, while teammate Bill had 57. The team had a col­lective 18 aces. 
"The team has a lot of talent and we have to play to win," said Joyee. 
The talent is evident in fresh­man Suzanne Martin who had 180 assists over the weekend and is now leading the record books with her average of close to 11 assists per match. 
Martin's averag1~ leads the old reeord whieh averaged 9.54 a game. 
The team is 3-7 for the season. but .Joyce stressed that there are many more matches. She is "very pleased and confident" with her team because "they play with heart." 
The Belles host their first horne match of the season tonight where they faee rival Lake Forest at 7 p.m. 
140-Year-Oid Seeks Fresh Thinking. 
140-year-old company is looking for aself­motivated individual to work with businesses and high net-worth people. Here is the opportunity to enjoy the control 
and unlimited earning potential that comes with working for yourself along with the satisfaction of helping others to secure their financial future. We offer ex1ensive training and support. Products include annuities, life insurance, and disability income insur­ance, for usc in estate planning, business planning, and pension and profit sharing plans. For more information, stop by our booth at the COBA on September 17 and 18, 1998 for the Business Career Forum or contact joan McCarthy at the Hoopis Agency, 847/441-4304. 
~~ 
The Quiet Company" 
www.hoopisagency.com 
Olqt~R Tilt' Nnrthw~t'rn Muluill tilt> 11\QII.\nrt' Cn.. M•IWillt~ WI ROJI.CJ7 

page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, September 15, 
I 

Golfers finish fifth in first tournament of seaso 
Special 10 The Observer 
The University of Notre

I 
I 
Dame women's ·goIf team slipped into a tie for fifth place following final-round action 
Sunday at the Mary Fossum 

I f Invitational, held at the par­72, 5,826-yard Forest Akers
i 
I West Golf Course. 
I 
The Irish stood in second

I 
~ 
I place after a morning round of 308 on Saturday before slip­
f ping into a tie for fourth after an afternoon round of 321. 
f 
~ Sunday's round of 324 in the play-six/count-four format dropped the Irish into a three­
l r 
way tie with Michigan (315­318-320) and Illinois State

' 
~ (317-318-318) for fifth at 953.
f • I Host Michigan State (302­293-300/895) led throughout en route to a comfortable 34­stroke cushion and the team title. Wisconsin (315-299­315/929) took second place, followed by Ohio University (309-320-316/945) and Kent (312-315-324/951 ), which edged the Irish by two strokes. Irish junior captain Andrea Klee (Appleton, Wis.), who opened with matching rounds of 77 on Saturday, fired a final-round 82 to finish tied 
Fassel not pleased with loss 

for 16th. 
Sophomore Mary Klein (76­83-81; Kokomo, Ind.) and junior Brigid Fisher (78-81-81; Augusta, Ga.) wrapped up solid outings by earning a share for 24th in the 89-player field, at 240. 
Sophomore Becca Schloss (77-80-85; Bloomsburg, Pa.) finished tied for 28th while junior Beth Cooper (Kalamazoo, Mich.) bounced back from a rough first two 

rounds (84-86) to post a fin round 80 for a 250 Newcomer Shane Smith (S Petersburg, Fla.), a more transfer from SMU, ished in the top· 50 rounds of 83-83-84/251. 
Freshman Kristin McMurt (82-84-85/251; Calgary, AI and sophomore Daniel Villarosa (88-87 -88/26 Verona, N.J.) also compP-ted the tournament as individu tmtrants. 
Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
A tired and angry Jim Fassel on Monday was considering lineup changes and a down­right miserable week for the New York Giants after they gave away a game in Oakland. 
While Passel would not iden­tify anyone about to be benched for next Monday night's game with Dallas, the Giants' offen­sive line took the brunt of the criticism after failing once again to get the running game going in Sunday's 20-17 loss. 
The line wasn't alone. 
The defense was criticized for giving up an 80-yard touch­down run by Napoleon Kaufman on-the opening play from scrimmage and for allow­ing the Raiders to convert at least four third-and-long plays. 
But what really irked Fassel was a feeling that the Giants (1­
1) were not ready to play against a less talented team. 
"J don't think I let my guard down with them at all," Passel said Monday. "But I'm never going to assume anything any­more. They've got my dander up and it's going to stay there for a long time." 
The opening two weeks of the season are reminiscent of last season -Fassel's first -when New York beat Philadelphia in Week 1 and then played poorly in losing to Jacksonville to start a three-game losing streak. 
Jacksonville was a good team battling quarterback injuries. The Raiders are rebuilding, and the Giants, the defending NFC East championships, played down to their level. 
"After looking at the tape, I'm not very pleased with the way we played at all," said the affa­ble Fassel, who didn't appear to smile once during his news con­ference. "Some of the guys we were really counting on to play well, did not play well." 
There were a ton of mistakes, inc! uding 15 penalties for 90 yards, 
five different mental errors on Kaufman's long TD run and little consistency from the offense. 
The offensive line, which returned all its starters from a group that averaged 124.3 yards rushing last season, had its second straight off week running the ball. New York had 71 yards rushing on 23 carries at Oakland and it has 153 yards in two games. 
The line might be the place to start making changes, but there is little depth. 
"Coach never hides anything from us and I'm sure he'll tell 
• 

us exactly how he feels," tackle Scott Gragg said. "Maybe we need a fire lit under us. I don't know, but we do need to be more productive." . 
Offensive line coach John Matsko said the line needs to change its attitude. 
"W.e have to get a sense of urgency to get the job done out there," he said. 




Visit our Web Site at:
Novus www.novusnet.com
• SERVICES 
EOEMJF/ON 

Tuesday, September 15, 1998 The Observer· TODAY page 23 


LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD NO 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

25 Hawaiian 35 Blues singer cookouts 
Bessie 26 Explorer 36 University Sebastian. bosses 27 Meadowlands 39 Nuclear planl apparaluses 28ft may have 
40 Skinflint 
quarlers 45 Piddling
downtown 47 "Othello" villain 
29llem slung in a sling 49 Ump 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
65 Artist Warhol 
66D. H. Lawrence's "--and Lovers" 
67 Append 
DOWN 
1 Talters 
2 "The Time Machine" people 
3 Entranceway 4 Vulgarly dressed 5 Rock group 
--Leppard 6 Bitter 7 Dairy Queen 
order 8 Long March leader 9ln --(near death) 
10 Buddies, in Baja 
11 Museum extension 12 Gymnast Korbul 
31 Brief and to the13 Mislay point
18 Bogus butter 32 Whatsoever
19 Barnyard clucker 33 Stares open-mouthed 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: Swoosie Kurtz, Jane Curtin, 
Billy Rose. )o Anne Worlov 
Happy Birthday: Oppmtunilies 
are plentifuL but you must ~t' wdhng 
to take some chancef!. Your practical 
side has always saved you in th,• past, 
but lately you may be loSing out 
because of your reluctance to try 
something new. As long as you an•n't 
excessive, you will find new chal­
lenges that will lead you in a po:'ltive 
direction. It's finally time for y<>u to 
become who you've always wanted 
to be. Your numbers: 5, 14, 16. 25, 
34,43 
ARIES (March 21-April 191: \'ou should not be concerned w1th co­workers who insist on spreadmg nasty rumors. Keep your mind on your own projects and by the end of the day you'll be the one who's shining. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Oplortunities for you to get ahead wil make themselves evident You should socialize with clients or those in the upper echelons of your indus­try if at all possible. 0000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): A resi­dential move may be in order. You should be careful when dealing with female members of your familv. Your temper will be short if someone criti­cizes your efforts. 00 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Tra\·el opportunities must be taken ad,·an­tage of. You will have the opporturuty to meet new romantic partners ii vou get involved in seminars or tra,:el. 00000 
LEO <July 23-Aug. 22): Sports, physical fitness programs and exer­cise in general will make you feel bet­ter about yourself. They will also show some pretty quick physical 
r<'SUI!s. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): Your 
partner may bl' somewhat irritablr 
today. Trv n<.lt to make waves. Offer 
good con.versation and a nice sooth­
ing lunch. You may want to mak,• 
plans to take a Vdcation togl'thrr. 
000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You 
may have a problem with a female 
friend. Don't ll't your emotions inter· 
(ere with your efficiency. Be sure to 
take care of any minor physical 
ailments. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Op­
pnrhmlties to expand your circle of 
friends will result in the possiblity of 
new romantic encounters. You will 
enjoy socializing and unusual forms 
of entertainment. 00000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): 
There could be opposition or temper 
tantrums on the home front. Try to be 
as mellow as possible. Danger of 
mtnor accidents will increaS{> with thr 
turmoil.OO 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Travel opportunities should be your first priority. Try to make arrange­ments with close friends or relatives to spend a few days away. Relatives will be cordial. 0000 
AQUARIUS (]an. 20-Feb. 18): Financial difficulties have been wor­rying you. Talk to someone with experience about a new budget or ways of consolidating your debts. You can come up with ways of earn· ing extra cash. 000 
PISCES <Feb. 19-March 20): Don't blow situations out of proportion. Your need to use emotional blackmail will only cause more discord. If you put your energy into physical outlets, you will avoid confrontations. 000 




-
so Parisian snack 54 Stupefy sites 56 Surprise attack 51 "Dancing 57 "Cubist" Rubik 
Wanted: Reporters, 

Queen" pop 
58 Paradise group 
60 Tic-tac-toe win 52 Chow-­
61 Early 53 Previously broadcasting 
photographers and 

owned in its. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
editors. 

are availabfe by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75~ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (BOO) 762-1665. 
Join The Observer 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
-· 1

and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name __________________________________________ _ Address _____________________________________ City----------State ______ Zip________ 

ACROSS 
t Fixed up again 6 Highesl point 10 Off-base, 
unofficially t4 Solo t5Cajole 16 Venus de-­17 Worlhless types 20 "Your 
excellency" 21 Tell a whopper 22 Bob Marley's 
music 23 Fed lines to 25 Late-night 
schmoozer Jay 26 Recovered 
consciousness 29 Total 30 Dateless 34 "--you ready 
yet?" 
35 Straitlaced 
38 Classic invention 41 Singleton 42 Horse holders 43Walkway 44 Protective 
covering 46 Gobbled up 47 Comedian 
Marty 48 Eyebrow shape 50 The "C" of 
C.O.D 51 Magic charm 54 Droop 55 Arboretum item 59 Part of makrng a 
favorable impression? 62 Funeral stand 
63 Debaucher 64 "Allie" star Michael 
r ~­
t f 
I 
I 
r 

.. 
·­

• Freshman Shane 
• Brad Hardin paced 
Walton earned Big East 
the Irish to a seventh 
rookie of the week hon­
place finish at the 
ors for the second 
Falcon/Cross Creek 

PORTS 
straight week. 
Invitational 
p.IB 
p.21 
THE 

-----------------Tuesday, September 15, 1998
page 24 OBSERVER 

Irish men, women race to first place at Invitational 

By ALAN WASIELEWSKI Spons Wrirer 
The cross country program at Notre DamP is focused on steady improvPnHmt. 
Every meet is a stepping stone to the District Championships and hopefully a NCAA 
~---------, national champi­onship meet berth. Last Saturday, the first of those stones was the Wolf and Kottle Arce c I" 0 s s Country Invitational in Gilberts. Ill. 
Notre Dame dominated the meet with both the men's and women's teams taking first place. 

The course was onP of the toughest NotrP Damp will face this season. 
"You had to be a mountain goat to run the course," said hPad coach Jop Piane. "It was almost too challenging. Credit our teams for boing able to step up in extreme condi­tions." 
Junior JoAnna Deeter ran to the highest finish of both teams with a time of 18:54. Notre Dame was forced to rest key junior runners Alison Klemmer and Nicole LaSelle due to minor injuries but junior Patty Rice (19:48) along with sophomores Erin Olson (20:43). and Bridget O'Brien 
(20:47) picked up the slack by finishing in the top 15. 
Rice finished third. just five seconds behind second place, while Olson and O'Brien fin­ished together at 14th and 15th, respectively. Junior Erin Luby was the final scorer for the Irish with her run of 21:01 in 22nd place. Notre Dame used these top finishes to edge Loyola Chicago 58-55 for the Invitational titlP. 
"It was nice to get back to running," said Luby. "With one meet under our belt, improvement in the next run is the key." 
The men's team gave a dom­inating effort on Saturday. All five finishes scored were in the top 16. Sophomore Ryan Shay crossed the finish line second overall with a time of 25:56. 
"The course was extn'lmely tough," Shay explained. "Tho hills are extremP. It put a lot of pressure on the ankles. We won't face a course this tough until the Nationals." 
The men's team benefited by 
having all thpir runners healthy for the meet. 
.Junior Hyan Maxwell crossed the finish line in fourth place with a solid time of 26:37. The rest of the scor­ing finishers were not far behind. 
Freshman Luke Watson. running his first collegiate meet, ran 26:51 in sixth place. 
Senior Tony Arce (27:01, 10th place) and sophomore Ted Higgins (27:17. 13th) were the next Irish runners across the finish line and were just ahead of teammates Tim Engelhardt and Mare Striowski in the 15th and 16th slots. 
These strong finishes gave Notre Dame a total of 35, easi­ly defeating its closest com­petitor. I.oyola-Chieago by 16 points. 
The Notre Dame runners 

Notre Dame looks to recover from loss 
By BILL HART Assistant Spom Editor 
It was the first day of practice for the Notre Dame football team following Saturday's game, but for head coach Bob Davie. it was back to business. 
"It's just business as usual," said Davie. "You get into a rhythm with this around this time of year." 
While the 45-23 loss to the Spartans was a major setback for the Irish, the team has two weeks to prepare for their next game. With kfly injuries to many players, these facts are reflected in the practice sched­ule between now and the Sept. 26 match-up with Purdue. 
"Well. first off. I think you've got to go back to making each player a better player," said Davie. "I think it's through hard work and just focusing on the next game so it's a little bit harder to put a loss like this behind you." 
One of the first areas of focus for the coaching staff this week will be the offensive line. which fell prey to a strong Spartan defensive front. The Irish ground attack was able to tally only 118 yards, while quarter­back .Jarious .Jackson was forced into difficult passing situ­ations under almost non-exis­tent protection. 
"We had a little problem with communication," Davie remarked on the position. "Our offensive linemen had a little trouble getting off the snap count. Michigan State was beat­ing us to the punch. I was really impressed with their front seven. We did some good things too. but we just had too many breakdowns." 
The Irish defensive line is the position that probably needs improvement the most, follow­ing a 209-yard rushing effort by MSU that set the tone early in the game. Still, Davie was able to see some positives in this weekend's loss. 

"We didn't play that well up front," Davie said. "I thought Tony Weaver played well; he continues to be probably our most consistent lineman. Grant Irons didn't play as well as he did against Michigan. but he did okay. The productivity inside is a problem for this football team. We put ourselves in the position where the other team could rely on their strengths of penetra­tion and quickness." 
The injury situation for the Irish looks slightly less bleak. While quarterback Jarious .Jackson injured his neck during Saturday's game, the only out­come is that he and Autry Denson will not practice for the next few days. Both are expect­ed to be fully healed and ready to play when the Boilermakers come to town. 
"We've got a bunch of players injured," Davie said. "We're for­tunate that we don't play this week. There's not going to be 
see DAVIE I page I 9 

will be pushed by Loyola­Chicago again this weekend at the Catholic Invitational, founded by Coach l'iane. 
Tlw Catholic Invitational is rtJn on campus, giving the Irish a chance to sprint around their own back yard. 
"The lirst m1)ets are not tlw time to push yourself, but win­ning is always a priority," Piane said. "We should be able to defend our turf." 
The women should be back at full strength after showing they are a power without their top runners. 
The mnn should put forth another dominating pnrfor­mance against similar compe­tition. 
It is tlw next run in a long line of stepping stones to thn national championship mPPt ahead. 


Saint Mary's goes 2-2 in tournament 
By SARAH MAGNESS 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary's volll~yball team spent last weekend digging and killing against their oppo­nents at thr Ohio Nortlwrn University Tournament, wlwre thPy went 2-2. 
Friday turned out to be the low point of the tournament. 
The Belles lost to both host Ohio Northrrn University (h-15, 12-15, :{-15) and to the College of Mount St. .Joseph (1 0-15. 7­15, 11-15). They were able to rebound on Saturday, howrver, with a 11-15,15-6,15-7, 12-15, I 5-12 win against Manchcster and a 15-11, 7-15, 16-14, 6-15, 15-11 win over Thomas Moore. 
After losing five consecutive matches. the Belles were in a definite rut which continued to bury them on Friday. 
ThPir loss to Ohio Northern was their seventh straight loss in just two weeks of play as they fell to a 1-7 record. 
"These were games we should've won," co-captain Agnes Bill said. "We're at about the same level. They're not that much better than us. I don't know why we've been losing." 
Saturday didn't just look like a different match for Saint Mary's, but a whole new season. 
"We started out slow, but we really picked up our game on Saturday," said junior eo-captain Mary Rodovich. 
Coach .Jennie .Joyce said that Friday was a hard day on the Belles. They traveled four hours that morning and only took a quick stretch before jumping into tournament play. 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 21 
vs Purdue at Rutgers 
September 26, I :30 p.m. September 18, 7 p.m. 

SPORTS 
Cross Country at National Catholic 

ATA 
Invitational 
vs. Rutgers vs. New Hampshire 

September 18, 3:30p.m. 
September 18, 7:30 p.m. September 18, 5 p.m. 

GLANCE 



