
Tuesday, March 3, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 103 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
'AsACATHOLIC coLLEGE, WE HAVE To TAKE THE POSITION THAT THE CHURCH TEACHES, AND I'M HOPING THAT WE CAN REACH A COMPROMISE.' 
MAR/LOU ELDRED PRESIDENT OF SAINT MARY's 
Rally for a chance 

Fight for Alliance recognition inspires protest 
By LORI ALLEN Saint Mary's Editor 
In order to actively protest Saint 
Mary's Coange President Marilou . Eldred's decision to deny official club · recognition to The Alliance, members, ' along with students from both Saint · Mary's and Notre Dame and faculty , supporters, gathered outside of 
r: Stap<'lton Lounge in Le Mans Hall yes­,, terday afternoon. 
The protest. unlike last Friday's : siiP-nt demonstration and petition. ! inrlud!'d drums, music. and chants . and was stratPgically planned to begin ~· at I :45. when students would be walk­. ing back and forth through the hall in 
between dasses. 
Senior member Kelli Harrison offi­cially began the protest by reading aloud a statement that she wrote in accordance with The Alliance mem­bers responding to Eldred's letter to the College community denying the group club status. 
The statement acknowledges the Above: Students, faculty and positive aspP.cts of Eldred's alternative to The Alliance. including the presi­members of the Alliance gather dent's proposal to expand the cduca­
to protest president Marilou 
tion;tl and programming components of the Committee on Helationships. Eldred's decision not to recog­Rut the statement also strongly emphasizes the lack of support from nize the group officially. thn students in a studPnt-run venue. 
Left: Notre Dame student
According to Harrison, "This [sup­port] must bP a key component of an Aaron Kreider's t-shirt expresses honest attempt to address sexuality on campus." a fundamental aspect of the 
"I think this goes back to the way 
protesters' argument.
students are sometimes afraid to chal­
see PROTEST/ page 4 Photos by Kristy Sutorius 


Faculty denies proposal to discuss Eldred's decision 
By ALLISON KOENIG Saint Mary's News Editor 
At the faculty assembly meeting yesterday, a motion to postpone discussion of for­mal agenda topics, in order to discuss the events surround­ing College president Marilou Eldred's decision to deny The Alliance official club status, was denied in a quorum vote. 
Just before assembly, presi­dent Patricia Sayre com­menced discussion on the agenda, which included a con­troversial family leave plan, and a,:;sociate professor of philosophy Ann Clark voiced the motion to address issues surrounding The Alliance. Her motion was quickly seconded, yet the quorum vote was -not met and the discussion was not permitted to take place. 
The assembly decided, in an informal, vocal majority vote, to gather for another special ' session to discuss the Alliance. 
Announcement from mem­bers of The Alliance did sur­face at the meeting, via assembly secretary Susan Alexander. 
Alexander passed on the group's invitation to the facul­ty for the sit-in rally, to be held shortly after the meeting. She also informed them of the 
see DECISION/ page 4 


Class~s choose presidents for 1998-1999 school year 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor 
The changing of the guard con­tinued last night with the election of new class offi<;ers and off-cam­pus representatives to the 1998­1999 student government. 
The class of 2001 was the only class ticket requiring a run-off election; a run-off election will also be held for the position of off­campus senator. 
Class of 2001 
The ticket consisting of Hunt Hanover, Anna Benjamin. Meghan McCurdy and Brian Smith will face-off against Gerry Olinger, Megan Strader, Maggie Wood and Drew Olejnik in a run­off election Thursday. 
Holding 30 percent of the vote, the Hanover ticket edged out the Olinger ticket's 23 percent in this election, but both sets of candi­dates promise that this will not be a close race. 
"We feel pretty comfortable," Olinger said about their place in the primary election. "Our plat­form is really strong, with a stress on 'excellence through unity' and communication with the upcom­ing sophomore class." 
"We have a lot of great ideas," Strader added. "I think we know what the class wants to do. We are running for them." 
The members -of the Hanover ticket were equally optimistic about the upcoming primary elec­tion. 
"I think that people saw that we had more posters [than the other ticket] and that we had different ways of getting to people. Our effort really showed through the results of this election." 
Both of the tickets' platforms emphasize a constantly-updated Web page for better communica­tion with the sophomore commu­nity; the Hanover ticket especially wants to integrate the Web into their platform as the mainstay of their communication efforts. 
"We are really working for a class link and weekly or bi-weekly e-mail," McCurdy said. "That way the class-will know what we are doing." 
Both tickets plan to step up their campaigning for the run-off election. 
"We are working hard for this election, and we will work equally hard next year if elected," Benjamin said. 
see ELECTION/ page 7 


Other 0.47% 
Off-Campus Senator 
"Indicates Run-Off Election Candidate Other includes write-in and invalid 
The Observer/Melissa Weber 


~---------------~-­

~~~-~ ~ -------~----­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Foreseeing a change 
I'll never forget the night freshman year when one of my best friends came to me with an uncanny expression on her face. 
"I think I'm gay," she said. 
It was the early spring 

of 1995, and the Notre  Allison Koenig  
Dame and Saint Mary's  Saint Mary's News Editor  
community was still  

embroiled in debates over the officially dis­
banded GLNDSMC. 
My friend could have really used a student support group. Our circle of friends was truly opt\n and willing to listen to her qualms and confusion, however, none of us could really relate. We had never questioned our sexuali­ty. 
My experience with that friend, and subse­quent conversations with other students deal­ing with issues of sexuality, have reinforced my belief that every college and university is in need of a peer support group for those stu­dents. 
Especially ours. My upbringing also plays a signilicant part in this belief. 
I was raised in a family which some people probably would characterize as liberal. My parents have numerous gay friends. I attend a parish that welcomes gay Catholics to wor­ship. In grade school, I had a friend who had two moms. I grew up on a street where two gay couples happily and peacefully resided. 
I realize that for most Saint Mary's stu­dents. their first encounter with a gay indi­vidual occurs in college. I fear that students may assume that just because their college will not allow gay students to establish a for­mal identity, that as individuals, they do not have to respect gay students. 
What worries me even more about the ongoing dialogue regarding the recognition of an otlicial group for students raising issues of sexuality, is that we are considering all feel­ings and viewpoints except for those of the pnople who are really at the heart of the con­troversy: the homosexual and questioning students. 
These students have questions, concerns and fears that are very real. They deserve a formal STUDENT outlet to share their needs. 
I found truth in a simple phrase that Linda Timm, vice president of student affairs at Saint Mary's College, pointed out to me in an interview earlier this week that "change does not happen overnight." 
Saint Mary's students are encouraged, via our mission statement, to "pioneer change," and I find the Alliance members to be very respectable pioneers. 
The recognition of a support group for les­bian and bisexual women at our college may not happen overnight, but the wheels of change are definitely in motion. 
We can credit and should absolutely respect president Marilou Eldred for some of that change. The discussion of sexuality issues on campus is different than it was even two years ago. 
I can foresee only improvement in the dia­logue on sexuality issues in future months, in future years. 
I can foresee a day at Saint Mary's when a first-year student questioning her sexuality walks into her best friend's room, and says, "I think I'm gay." 
And the best friend can reply, "I know of a great group of students for you to talk to." 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAY's STAFF  
News  Accent  
Sarah Hiltz  Bridget Rzezutko  
Colleen McCarthy  Production  
Anne Hosinski  Mark DeBoy  
Sports  Andrea Jordan  
Anthony Bianco  Lab Tech  
Shannon Ryan  Jeff Hsu  
Viewpoint  Graphics  
Spencer Stefko  Melissa Weber  

The Observer (USPS 599 l-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday rxccpt during rx~m and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of the A.ssodarcd Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Tuesday, March 3, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 



c-~~Putside the Dome 
\-1 · Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Student remains in hospital after drive-by shooting 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 

One person was killed and three others -including a university stu­dent -were wounded in related on­campus shootings following the Philadelphia public league high school boys basketball championship yesterday afternoon. 
The incidents all occurred on 33rd Street north of the Palestra at about 
4:10 p.m. Witnesses described hear­ing a series of gunshots that sounded like "fireworks" shortly after the tournament ended and throngs of fans began leaving the building and filling the street. 
According to witnesses and police, the incidents were the result of a drive-by shooting in which a suspect inside a car fired an automatic or semi-automatic gun at least 15 times before fleeing west on Walnut Street. Several police officers at the scene said that they suspect the shootings 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS-AUSTIN 
Law school seeks to improve ranking 
AUSTIN, Texas 
After plummeting in the U.S. News and World Report 
rankings released this month, the UT school of law is 
aggressively tracking down former students to improve its 
employment statistics for future rankings. Law school otli­
cials held a symposium Thursday to discredit the drop 
from 18 to 29 in this year's ranking. About 50 students 
attended. "We are taking a whole series of aggressive 
steps to counteract this outrageous treatment from U.S. 
News," said Brian Leiter, a UT professor of law. The mag­
azine attributed the drop to the law school's failure to 
track students' employment status after graduation. The 
law school reported that the status of 61 former students 
was unknown. Of those, the magazine classified 75 per­
cent as unemployed. The law school is going to debunk 
those numbers, said Leiter, adding that the career ser­
vices otlice is working to track down former students. "We 
are going to get on the phone and get on the internet, and 
use whatever data sources we can find," Leiter said. 
• BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Funds for 2002 Olympics in limbo 
PROVO, Utah 
Gov. Leavitt met with the press Feb. 16 to discuss Utah's 
future and how it will be funded. After returning Wednesday 
from the Nagano Olympics and a national governor's meet­
ing with President Clinton, Leavitt was anxious to discuss 
issues concerning Utah's future, especially its financial 
future. The discussion focused on funding the I-15 project 
and the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City. Leavitt said he was 
optimistic about the progress on 1-15. Construction is far 
ahead of schedule, he said, adding that the project will be 
completed on time and within budget. When asked if it 
would be ditlicult to raise the remaining $480 million to 
fund the $1.59 billion project, Leavitt said the money is 
guaranteed, but the source of funds depends on timing. 
Legislators in Washington, D.C., are currently considering a 
bill that would provide federal money to fund transportation. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWealher'"forecasl for daylime condilions and high lempermures 
l•.._,.
./•••no••••••oo••••••••••••••• 
H L 
l 
~ ...5'-....\f"'.,,..\ / ...... \..1,]") 

q,~.~A88 (f ~ d 
Showers T-storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy Via Associated Pr_ess GraplltcsNet 

After the shootings, police stopped at least four people for possessing weapons. It is unclear if any of the people questioned were directly related to the incidents, or whether they were arrested as suspects. 
A 22-year-old man was pro­nounced dead at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania after being shot in the back, according to HUP and university police officials. A 
• ~ATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Tuesday, March 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
...._...,-........._ ~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C> 1998 AccuWealher, Inc 

Pressure H L  E3  ISS!  lnl  0  !ZJ  EJ~  ~u  
HIGH  LOW  SHOWERS RAIN  T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW  ICE  SUNNY  PT. CLOUDY  CLOUDY  

Allanla  48  31  Hulchinson  52  21  Phoenix  74  48  
Boston  42  35  KeyWesl  73  60  Sacramento 62  43  
Cleveland  37  30  Milwaukee  35  26  StLouis  38  28  
Fargo  21  12  New Orleans 62  38  Skokie, Ill.  31  26  
Honolulu  82  66  Philadelphia 48  39  Seatlle  45  36  

• OHIO UNIVERSITY 
Stranger rapes remain unsolved 
ATHENS, Ohio 

In the past two years six forced stranger rapes have been committed in Athens -none of which has been solved. During 1996 and 1997, two stranger rapes were reported to and verified by the OU police department, and four were reported to the Athens police department. Despite some students' beliefs, the problem of unsolved cases usually does not stem from police failing to do their jobs, said Beverly Harris Elliot, executive director of the National Coalition Against Sexual Assault. Many cases of rape remain unsolved because of routine obstacles law enforce­ment officials face when investigating stranger rapes, espe­cially in a university setting, she said. "The reporting and solving of rapes in university communities is harder because a high instance of un-rnporting is suspected," Elliot said. In 1995, national law enforcement agencies reported only about half of all reported acquaintance and stranger forcible rapes were "cleared with an arrest," she said. But, of those arrests, not all suspect~ were convicted. 
• TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY Comments draw death threat for prof 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 

A Texas A&M University tenured professor said he received a death threat over the phone Friday morning, the day after he was indicted on two felony counts that charge him with misappropriating state funds for per­sonal profit. Dhiraj Pradhan, once the school's highest paid computer science endowed chair who was sus­pended with pay last August, said he believes the death threat is a response to several quotes that ran in a Feb. 27 article in the Bryan-College Station Eagle. The quotes were taken out of context from private faxes he had sent to his colleagues, Pradhan said. "These com­ments were off-the-cuff remarks," Pradhan said in a phone interview. "I apologize to anybody who was offended by the comments, but somebody called and threatened my life." 
HUP spokesperson refused to release the victim's name. 
The Penn student wounded in the shooting, college senior John La Bombard, is being treated for a gun­shot wound to his left leg and remained hospitalized in stable con­dition as of 12:45 a.m. today, accord­ing to a spokesperson for Allegheny University llospitals-llahnemann in Center City. 
La Bombard, 21, was working on a project for a design of the environ­ment class inside the Blauhaus­the blue, shed-like fine arts building at 33rd and Chestnut streets-when a stray gunshot went right through the wooden wall and hit him in the left leg, police and witnesses said. 
A woman who was taken to IIUP after being shot in the elbow remained in fair condition as of last night. ller name and age were not immediately available. 

Tuesday, March 3, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

New administration chooses chief of staff 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE 
Associate News Editor 
Embracing their new roles as president and vice president­elect. the Peter Cesaro/Andrea Selak administration announced last night that junior Deanette Weiss will serve as their chief of staff for the 1998-1999 academic year. 
Weiss served as the Walsh Hall co-president during the past year and also served as the freshman class secretary, sopho­more service chair. assistant to the academic delegate. and assistant chief of staff during the Miller administration, a role which she feels most prepared her for this new appointment. 
"I have already, in essence, done this job before," Weiss said. "I think that having the year of different perspective from being on [Hall President's Council] will help me in my new position." 
Weiss asserted that while she did not expect to be appointed chief of staff. she is sure that her past experience in several aspects of student government will prove a valuable asset to Cesaro and Selak. 
''I'm really excited," she said. "There is so much that can be done with this position, and there is a lot that I see that needs to be done." 
Having served under both the Miller and Griffin administra­tions. Weiss is looking forward to gleaning the positive aspects of each year's leadership and incorporating them into next year's government. 
"I have seen the strength and weaknesses of both administra­tions," she said. "I think that this is to my advantage. I have a good idea of what is going on in the many aspects of student union." 
Weiss first plans to help Cesaro and Selak choose their new staff members. After that, she wants to delve straight into her new­found duties as chief of staff. 
"The chief of statfs main duty should be to push ideas through and work within the depart­ments to ensure better commu­nication," she said. "Peter and Andrea shouldn't have to do everything. I am here to assist them in whatever way I can." 
And Weiss plans to do just that; as chief of staff, she wants to eliminate some of the ambigu­ity surrounding her role and stu­dent government in general. 
"I should not be solely con­cerned with SafeRide," she said, referring to the large amount of time former chief of staff Mary Gillard spent implementing the program. "I want student gov­ernment to put more of a focus on other things as well, such as the role of HPC and Executive Cabinet." 
Cesaro and Selak both expressed excitement about their choice; the new president and vice president are convinced that their personalities will mesh quite well with that of Weiss. 
"I am really excited to work with Deanette again," Selak said. 
"Deanette is an excellent 
leader." Cesaro added. "Next 
year will be productive if we 
work as a team. We are all hard­
working and interested in gov­
ernment; I am looking forward 
to this opportunity." 

S
tudents exercise their right to vote in yesterday's elections for class presidents and off-campus co-presidents and senator. Sorin resident Ryan Epstein, seated, helped collect votes. 
• CAMPUS liFE COUNCil 


Cards to bring more food options 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
Associate News Editor 
Director of food services Dave Prentowski attended last night's Campus Life Council to inform the members of the council about the debit card system that his office has planned for next fall. 
"We are trying to come up with a more flexible work plan," he said. "Next fall, we will offer a sec­ond option of 14 meals and a $200 credit." 
The plan would consist of 14 meals and $200 credit per semester. The credit will roll could use the debit card at over between semesters in an once. academic year, but will not "The students who choose roll over from year-to-year. the $200 credit are welcome 


Prentkowski indicated that to use the money as they see 
f i t ' " 
Prentkowski said. "With 


the card you can buy five or six ham­burgers if you want." 
W h e n asked if the new termi­
DIRECTOR OF FOOD SERVICES nals could be 

student IDs could be scanned at terminals that will be installed in the restaurants in LaFortune Student Center or South Dining Hall. 
"The cost for room and board remains the same no matter which option a student chooses," he said. "A student can also choose at some point in the semester to switch from the standard, 21-meai plan to the 14-meal plan. It will sim­ply be prorated from the beginning of the semester." 
However, he clarified that a student who chooses the 14­meal plan cannot switch back to the 21-meal plan. 
Members of the council expressed some concerns about the process and the use of student IDs as a debit card. At one point, the discussion centered on how many people 
.A.re you lesbian! Gav! Bisexual! Questioning! Are you a friend ofsomeone who Is! 
Please come to Campus Ministry's SECOND ANNUAL RETREAT for lesbian, gay, and bisexual undergraduate students and their friends. 
MARCH 20-21, 1998 
• Explore vour gifts and the milestones In vour life 
* Meet neru people 

• Discuss lwrv rve are all called to follorv Cltr!st 
*Examine rvavs to reach out to the Notre Dame/St. Marv' s community
(?MPUS 
For more information or to 
-* Student-led
MINISTRY 
register, please call 

*Student talks 
Kate: 1-5242 katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu
* Conversation 

Mark: 4-1933 mark.f.massoud.l@nd.edu
*1tavcr 
Alyssa: 4-3352 alyssa.l.hellrung.5@nd.edu 
used to bring 
visitors to the dining halls, Prentkowski said, "Yes. You will have to pay the guest meal rate but you can still use it. 
"The entire system is as simple as one point equals one cent," he continued. "Of course, you can always add more value to your card throughout the year. And that added money keeps rolling over until you part from this University, hopefully through graduation." 
One fear that the council raised in the discussion was the question of theft. 
"Your ID can be invalidated immediately," Prentkowski assured council members. "All you have to do is notify Security as soon as it is lost." 
He added that the faculty and staff ID cards will be fin­ished by the end of the year. 


Gulf Shores/Orange Beach 

All rooms equipped with microwave & refrigerator. lndoor pool, FREE continental breakfast. 
Ask About Student Ratesl 
1-BOD-237-6169 
-------~-----­

page4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
knowing that it would be a no­English department said. presence, the rally began to win situation, but the point is "I do commend President come to a close. But before

Protest Decision 
that we need to be able talk to Eldred for making this decision everyone disbanded, Eldred 
one another, and I don't want openly during the school year, emphasized that the issue continued from page 1
continued from page 1 
this decision to cut off discus­when we are all here to argue would certainly not die. 
lenge the views of those they see as authority figures, and that when this happens, stu­dents don't feel comfortable and don't feel safe expressing their views in an honest way. Therefore, they aren't able to truly address issues of their own sexuality in that atmos­phere," said Harrison. 
Alliance members, students, and faculty sat on the floor in the middle of the great sion," Eldred said. 
Dialogue continued and sev­eral students brought up dif­ferent aspects of The Alliance and Eldred's decision to deny the group. Harrison, however, asked the question most of the protesters had in mind, 'why won't a group like The Alliance work?' 
Eldred appeared a bit flus­tered, but stood behind her 
hall of Le Mans, 
with her," said Clark. 
Eldred continued to answer student questions and men­tioned that she felt she made the best decision for the College, but if it had been a personal choice, it might have been different, stating that this was a decision that may have put her job in jeopardy. 
"I think any issue of social justice is crystal clear. You 
take a stand for jus­tice no matter what the personal ramifi­cations are for you," said Susan Alexander, assistant professor of sociolo­
gy."I am a big believer in Ghandi and King, 
and if you believe in justice, you take a stand for those who 
are oppressed." The rally itself was received well by 

"I would very much like to get together with a small group of students here who will act as representatives of the whole to discuss other ways to make this happen," she said. 
"I think that the way the rally ended made it clear to President Eldred how strong the feeling is; there needs to be a bigger umbrella of issues being discussed so that there are student discussions going on all of the time," said Constance Majeau, Notre Dame graduate student in theology. 
National Day of Silence, which will take place on April 8. The purpose of the day is to com­memorate the contributions and achievements of gay and lesbian people, and to recog­nize the fact that their voice has often been silenced in the world. 
Alliance members encour­aged professors to promote a few minutes of absolute quiet in their classes that day as observance of the National Day of Silence. 



False alarms cause library evacuations 
Observer Staff Report 
Contractors working in the Hesburgh Library inadvertent­ly set off fire alarms twice yesterday, causing brief evac­uations of patrons and staff. 
While the contractors were working on the southwest side of the second floor at 8:50 a.m., smoke resulting from their work tripped a beam detector, according to fire­fighter Wayne Bishop. 
The detector was tripped again at 4:25 p.m. when the beam was reset after the con­tractors completed their work for the day, Bishop added. 
Although the false alarms forced about 150 library patrons and staff to evacuate, Bishop noted that the alarm system worked correctly. 
"The system did what it was supposed to do," he said. 


and in between music, chants, and drum beats took turns expressing their views on Eldred's decision. 
"We will not silently go away," 
said junior member Kelly Curtis, "this is an issue between the students and the administration, and the goal is to get a student run group. I am protesting the administration telling me that I'm not mature enough to engage in discussion about sexuality with my peers." 
But discuss they did, and the protest provided a forum to bring up issues of sexuality. In the middle of this discus­sion, they were paid a visit by Eldred. 
The president remained on the outside of the circle, observing the group's activity until she was invited to speak. Once acknowledged, she remained where she was and answered questions from the group of protesters. 
"I entered into this decision 
'ITHINK THAT THE STUDENT 
SUPPORT WAS AMAZING, AND THE FACT THAT THE COLLEGE PRFSIDENT ••• DIRECT­LY RFSPONDED WAS MOVING.' 
MAIT GRIFFIN STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT OF NOTRE DAME 
decision and answered that, "as a Catholic College, we [the administration] have to take the position that the Church teaches." 
Students responded aggres­sively and brought up exam­ples of other Catholic colleges accepting groups similar to The Alliance, and that the issue moved beyond just the Church. 
"This is an issue of human rights, and there is no space on-campus for lesbian, bisexu­al, straight and questioning students, faculty or staff to meet and discuss issues of sex­uality. Every time this issue is mentioned in class. there is a tension that surrounds it," Rosalind Clark, chair of the those in attendance, and according to Alliance member Poogie Sherer, "it built an unprecedented sense of com­munity on the Saint Mary's campus." 
"I think that the student sup­port was amazing, and the fact that the College president came out and directly respond­ed was moving. I really think that this direct interaction between the students and the administration adds to the quality of Saint Mary's," said Notre Dame student body pres­ident Matt Griffin who attend­ed the protest rally. 
"The chances of that happen­ing at Notre Dame are slim." 
With Eldred's comments and the students' reaction to her 

[)elf~,~v Tk fi_+-._t Rzza.l @3®<fl~ ~[b® ®0CD®~ lJ[J®0~<fl~g Anytime you call between 5:30 & 7:00, the price of your large 1 topping pizza is the time you call. * Plus tax ND store Open for lunch everyday271-1177 Lunch Specfal. SmaU 1 topptii:n~gSaint Mary's/ 2 cans of Coca-Cola proch.u:tNorth Village Mall 5~99 271-PAPA  Anyti you call between 10:30 -12:59, the price of your 2 large 1 topping pizzas is the time you call. * Plus tax Drive-In and Delivery Visa/Mastercard Accepted  


• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
'Republic of Texas' group faces fraud trial 
DALLAS . Texas 

Potential jurors were asked if they had ever had problems dealing with the govern­ment as jury selection began yesterday for members of the anti-government Republic of Texas accused of defrauding businesses with bogus warrants. U.S. District Judge Joe Fish asked 65 potential panelists in the federal bank and mail fraud case whether they rec­ognized any of the 100 names on the witness list. lie also asked if they had encountered any problems with the government or "any experience that left sort of a bad taste in your mouth that the government would not be starting off on equal footing with the defendants if you are a judge in this case." Richard McLaren, his wife, Evelyn, and seven followers are accused of issuing the worthless warrants, which looked like cashier's checks. 
Priest-killer gets 50 years 
BERNALILLO, N.M. 

A man who killed a retired priest with a rock after he was picked up hitchhiking was sentenced yesterday to 50 years in prison. Dennis Carbajal, 38, had recently finished serving time on an assault conviction when he met up with 62-year-old Armando Martinez in May of last year. He attacked Martinez while the two were driving in the Jemez Mountains northwest of Albuquerque. but Martinez man­aged to run. A group of people in a car said a screaming Martinez ran up to them in a panic. "A man is trying to kill me," he was quoted as yelling. "Please help me, I'm a priest. I gave a ride from Jemez Springs, and he just got out of prison. He's going to kill me. You must believe me it's my life." At that point a younger man came over and said, "Don't lis­ten to my friend. He's drunk." 
Nigeria takes Cameroon to court over dispute 
TilE HAGUE, Netherlands 

Nigeria asserted its daim Monday to an oil­rich peninsula in a territorial dispute with Cameroon, accusing its West African neighbor of provocation. On the opening day of hearings before the World Court. Nigeria contended that the contested Bakassi peninsula lies in its territory and that its nationals in the area are under threat. "Bakassi belongs to Nigeria ... Cameroon hopes to take Bakassi from us to use it to enlarge its territory," said Nigerian attorney general Alhaji Abdullahi Ibrahim. Cameroon "consistently seeks to raise the tem­perature in a volatile way," he added. The court, the United Nations' highest judicial body, is trying to settle the bitter boundary quarrel that brought the two nations to the brink of war in 1981. 


U.N. Security Council warns Iraq 

AssociATED PRESS 
UNITED NATIONS 

The Security Council reached tenta­tive agreement Monday on a resolution warning Iraq of "severest conse­quences" if it violates an arms inspec­tion deal. 
The council began meeting in the evening to vote on the resolution. 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan, in a rare speech to the council, said it was now up to the Iraqis to honor the agreement and determine "whether the threat to international peace and secu­rity has been averted for all times. 
"With today's Security Council resolu­tion, however, the government of Iraq fully understands that if this effort to ensure compliance through negotia­tions is obstructed, by evasion or deception, diplomacy may not have a second chance," Annan said. 
But agreement on the resolution came only after several council mem­
-hers insisted on guarantees that it wo.uld not give automatic approval to a military attack if Iraq breaks the accord. Diplomatic sources, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said China became the last of the 15 members to agree to the much revised text. "This is a very clear, strong resolu­tion that we are very pleased with that will now go into force," U.S. ambas­sador Bill Richardson said before the vote. Since last week, the British and Japanese, who sponsored the resolu­tion, have circulated several versions in an attempt to satisfy all council mem­bers. The original draft warned Iraq of "severest consequences" if it violated the accord. That was softened Friday to "very serious consequences," but, in an apparent attempt to placate Washington, the "severest conse­quences" phrase was reinserted into the text on Monday. The difficulties encountered in reach­ing a consensus cast doubt on the Clinton administration's claims that if Iraq violated the deal there would be strong international support for mili­
tary action. 

During lengthy meetings throughout the day, envoys from such countries as Brazil, Costa Rica and Portugal, which normally support the U.S. stand against Iraq, made clear they opposed any res­olution that would give Washington a blank check for an attack if Iraq does­n't honor the accord. 
"It is very clear that only the Security Council has the authority to approve an armed military action," said Costa Rican ambassador Fernando Berrocal Soto. 
The United States has maintained that it has sufficient authority to use force under several resolutions enacted since 1991. But France, Russia, China and others dispute that interpretation. 
Yesterday in Baghdad, Iraqi Deputy Prime Minister Tariq Aziz told CNN that the proposed resolution is an attempt by the United States and Britain to lay the foundation for an attack. 
The resolution would endorse an agreement reached last week in Baghdad by Annan that allows U.N. inspectors to visit eight presidential palaces. 




page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 




OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 

Tuesday. March 3, 7:00pm. Campus Ministry-Badin Office 
Campus Bible Study 
The study will continue to read and reflect on James' Letter on Christian actions and Christian values. Come and learn how we can follow the Lord. 
Wednesday, March 4, 7:30 -8:00 pm, Keenan-Stanford Chapel 
Contemporary Prayer Service 

for PEACE and UNITY 
Fridays during Lent. 7:15 pm. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Stations of the Cross 
Music Ministry: 
March 6 Schola 
March 13 Cantor/Organ 
Monday, March 16, 5:30 pm, Main Circle 

African American Community 
Dinner and Conversation at Montego Bay Restaurant 
Friday-Saturday, March 20-21 

Retreat for Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Undergraduates and Friends 
For information, please contact: Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry (1-5242 or 
katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu); Mark at 4-1933 (mark.f.massoud.1@nd.edu) or 
Alyssa at 4-3352 (alyssa.l.hellrung.S@nd.edu). 
Sunday, March 22 
Does your relationship have a future? Should your relationship have a future? 
Campus Ministry will offer the program "What's The Future of This 
Relationship?," an opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in significant relationships. For more information, or to register for the program. Calll-5242 for Chris Etzel, John or Sylvia Dillon. 
Friday-Saturday, March 27-28, St. Joe Hall Freshmen Retreat for residents of Carroll, Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford and Welsh Family. 
In progress, Hesburgh Library Concourse 

"A Glimpse Into the Soul" 
An art exhibit of the artwork of Belinda Bryant '01 and Alan Easter '01. 
In progress, LaFortune Box Office Free tickets are now available for the March 21st NBC taping of "Easter at Notre Dame." This broadcast will be aired nationally on Easter Sunday and 
will involve the Folk Choir and Notre Dame students. 
Tuesday, March 3, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 

'Repairman' blood tests spark hope for genetic cures 
By MALCOLM RITTER 
AP Science Writer 
NEW YORK 

Scientists have altered a gene in rat livers by injecting a "repairman" molecule into the bloodstream, a startling advance that may lead to cures for such genetic diseases as hemophilia and cystic fibrosis. 
What surprised researchers \\as how well the technique worked. 
The treatment produced a spe­cific change in about 40 percent of the liver's supply of the target­ed gene. Other techniques have success rates more like one in a million in much easier tests, where cells were in laboratory dishes rather than in an animal. 
If it works in people, the tech­nique might someday be able to cure a host of disorders caused by defective genes, like hemo­philia, cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia and an inherited form of high cholesterol that affects about one in 500 people, produc­ing heart attacks around age 40. 
But gene therapy experts cau­tioned that it's not clear whether the technique would apply to a range of disorders. They also said many scientists have not been able to make it work. 
Most gene therapy experi­ments haven't tried to fix a bad gene. Instead, they've supplied cells with working copies of a gene to step in for the defective version. Fixing the bad gene would be better, but the low effi­ciency in past experiments has been discouraging. 
"We were surprised ourselves by how efficient it was," said Dr. Clifford Steer of the University of Minnesota, who reports the work with colleagues in this monthOs issue of the journal Nature Medicine. 
The experiment altered a healthy gene in the rats rather than correcting a defect. Researchers now plan a study in dogs to fix a flawed gene that causes hemophilia. 
The repairman molecule had 
CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 

CYNTHIA BASKER 302 Easr Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 219 258-5482 Call or write for free informational packet 




Attitude Can Be A Problem. 
OrA 

Problem Solver. 
www.dcsys.com Forward Resumes to: 
two main parts. One was a tag to IX. make liver cells pull the repair­Once the repairman showed man out of the bloodstream. The up there, the cells replaced that other part contained a mix of piece with the substitute brought DNA and its chemical cousin by the repairman. How that RNA, designed to seek out a par­works is still a bit of a mystery, ticular piece of the gene for a but it probably involves the clotting substance called factor body's natural mechanism for 
Election 
continued from page 1 
And though they trailed by eight percent in this election, the members of the Olinger tick­et are not downtrodden. 
"We have know-how and experience, and if we are elect­ed, we can get things done," Olejnik said. 
Class of 2000 
With 601 of the 908 votes cast in this election, the ticket con­sisting of Joe Kippels, Michelle Viegas, Erin McGee and Yin Kurian prevailed as the new representatives for the upcom­ing junior class. Hailing their experience and platform ideas as reasons for the victory, the new leaders of the class of 2000 are excited about their plans for the upcoming year. 
''Most of us have a lot of expe­rience with class council," Viegas said. "We have some great ideas." 
The newly elected officers plan to jump start communica­tion within their class, citing that a main reason why stu­dents are apathetic about stu­dent government is because they are not adequately informed. 
"One of the main things we want to do is publicize out events a lot more," Kippels said. 

Viegas agreed: "We want our activities and even ourselves to be more accessible to the stu­dents." 
Class of 1999 
For the class of 1999, the tick­et comprised of Jim Farrell, Emily Miner, Erin Wysong and Todd Manegold was the over­whelming winner, with 66 per­cent of the vote. 
"We are going to plan a lot of events that will bring the seniors together in their final year here," Farrell said. "There should be a lot of unity in our last year together." 
With events such as senior night at BW3's and class din­ners, the Farrell ticket hopes that their final year in student government will be a success. 
"We really want to stress com­munication between on-campus and off-campus students," Farrell said. "A lot can get lost if those ties are not maintained." 
Manegold agreed, adding that the diversity of their ticket was a defmite asset to implementing their platform's goals. 
"We have realistic goals that are possible to achieve," he said. 
Off-Campus Co-Presidents 
In a close race, the Todd Church/Bret Hendrickson ticket for off-campus co-presidents repairing genetic flaws, Steer said. 
Dr. James Wilson, a gene ther­apy expert at the University of Pennsylvania, said a big question is how well the technique would work against a variety of genetic flaws. 
won with 52 percent of the vote. Stressing communication and interaction from different off­campus venues, the ticket hopes that next year will bring a more cohesive class unity. 
"Todd and I are very excited about our victory," Hendickson said. "We want to work with the off-campus senator as soon as they are elected." 
An important part of the Church/Hendrickson platform will be the possible formation of an off-campus executive council, with representatives from each off-campus apartment complex and even individual houses. This way, Hendrickson said, there will be more interaction between members of the off­campus community. 
"This council will help our ideas to be well-publicized and well-know," Hendrickson said. "We will hopefully organize a lot of events that the off-campus students can take part of." 
Off-Campus Senator 
In a close race for off-campus senator, Mickey Doyle and Kevin McCarthy took the top two spots in the election, taking 36 per­cent and 39 percent of the votes, respectively. 
These two tickets will compete in the run-off election on Thursday. Both Doyle and McCarthy were not available for comment. 

"Attitude is more important than facts. It is more important than the past, than education, than money, than circumstances, than failures, than successes, than what other people think or say or do. It is more important than appearance, giftedness or skill. It will make or break a company ... a church ... a home. The remarkable thing is we have a choice every day regarding the attitude we will embrace for the day. We cannot change the inevitable. The only thing we can do is play on the one string we have, and that is our attitude. Life is 10% what happens to you and 90% how you react to it. We are in charge of our attitudes." 
-Charles Swindoll What's your attitude? 
Meet DC Systems on March 3rd at 7:00 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Foster Room. Refreshments provided • Interviews March 4 & 5 

DC IYITEMI U IYITEMI 
IC IYrtf'MI
•
EDUCATIONSOFTWARE 
INFORMATION 


MANAGEMENT 

recruiting@dcsys.com 
Management Consulting • Technical Education • Business Products 



VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OHICE: P.O. Box Q, Nurre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief 
Brad Prendergast 
Managing Editor Business Manager 
Jami~ Heisler Tom Roland 
Auistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Hearher Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. jed Peters Viewpoint Editor .. .. ........ Kdly Brooks Ad Design Manager..................... Jennifer Breslow Sport.s Editor .................................. Mike Day Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor........................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Controller............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Karic Kroener 

The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the UniV<rsiry of Notre Dame du Lac and Saim Mary's College. It docs not na:cssarily rcAcct rhc policies of rhe administration ofeither instimtion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprc:sc:m the opinion of the: majoricy ofrhc: Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisram Managing Editor, News 
Editor. Viewpoint Editor. Sports Editor. Accent Editor. Saint Mary's Editor. Phoro Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commc:maries, lc:nc:rs anJ Inside Columns prc:sc:m the views of the authors, and not neccs­.~arily those of The Observer. Vicwpoim space is available wall mcmlxrs of the Nmrc Damc/Saim Mary's communicy anJ to all readers. The: free expression of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 
Editor-in-Chief  63I-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Man;~ging Ediror  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
Ncw!J/Phmo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day EditorNiewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoim E-Mail  Vicwpoinr. i @nd.cdu  
Gcncr;~llnformadon  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  obscrv('r@darwin.cc.nd.cdu  

• SHADES OF GRAY 
Separate and Unequal? 
On issues like affirmative action, Americans fall into two categories. Generally, the battle is fought between the "things aren't so bad, definitely not as bad as they used to bP, and they're getting better" crowd and the "white people get all kinds of advantages, have more strings to pull, and minorities deserve special treatment" crowd. 
Everyone 

agrees that America's treat­
ment of blacks 
Isaac 
and minorities 
has been rotten. 
And despite sub­
stantial 
improvements in 
the last few 
-----========----decades, racial 
Ruiz 
division and poverty remain. However, to say that in America the question of economic and social inequality rcduees itself to the distinction between white and black is an oversimplification. 
In 1968, the Kerner Commission, in the federal govern­ment's first official recognition of the problem. reported that the country was "moving toward two societies, one black, one white -separate and unequal." Thirty years later, some say this prediction has come true. 
KI!RNER RHVISITED 
According to "The Millennium Breach," a report by the Milton S. Eisenhower Foundation, the Kerner Commission's famous forecast has been realized. "While leaders and pun­dits talk of full employment, inner city employment is at cri­sis lnvels. The rich are getting richer, and the poor are get­ting poorer, and minorities are suffering disproportionate­
..
!y. 
Tho foundation cites alarming statistics. For example, 40 pnrccmt of minority children attend urban schools, where more than half of them are poor and more than two-thirds fail to reach basic achievement levels. And the national incarceration rate of black men is four times higher than that in South Africa during apartheid, with one in three young American black men in prison, on parole, or on pro­bation. 
Statistically, poverty does have a grip on minority commu­nities. The unemployment rate for blacks is twice as high as for whites, and nearly one in three black or Hispanic fami­lies live below the poverty line, a rate three times that for whites. 
STUC'K IN THE '60s 
Despite the numbers, Jim Sleeper, author of "Uberal Radsm," argues that the significance of race is overstated when discussing poverty. Quoted in The Washington Post, Sleeper called the foundation's report self-serving and noted that while economic gaps continue to exist, the reasons have less and less to do with race. 
"We have a race industry in this country," Sleeper told the Post. "They downplay the good news because they feed on the bad. They draw their funding and moral cache from the bad." 
After all, there is good news. Robert Woodson, head of the National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise, said that the number of black families earning between $35,000 and $75,000 doubled between 1970 and 1990. "Racism and dis­crimination still exist," the black conservative admits. "But they aren't the biggest problems facing blacks in America today. The real issue is the growing economic rift within the black community." In his opinion, the authors of "The Millennium Breach" are "stuck in the '60s." 
SEPARATE AND UNEQUAL? 

At the heart of the Kerner report was the idea that blacks were trapped in inner cities. The report said that white soci­ety was "deeply implicated in the ghetto" and credited white institutions with creating, maintaining, and condoning racial and economic inequality. 
Now, this characterization is inappropriate. The urban battleground is fought on many fronts -white versus black, black versus Hispanic, Hispanic versus Asian. and so forth. 
And it isn't necessarily true that blacks and minorities are trapped in inner cities. Harvard University professor Stephen Thernstrom explains that since the Kerner Report, there has been a "massive movement of blacks from inner cities to suburbs." 
Economic inequality affects minorities disproportionately. But the problem is more complex than race. According to Thernstrom, the income of intact black families is within 13 percent of white family incomes. He says that when you take into account that blacks have fewer college degrees and live disproportionately in the low-wage South, the figures are nearly equal. 
All of this suggests that inequality in housing, education, or employment is not purely a problem of race. At least, we can say that special treatment based on race, like certain forms of affirmative action, can never make up for white society's prejudice over past centuries. 
As Woodson puts it, "If we keep banging the drum of racism, we will never find a way to close this economic rift." 
Isaac Ruiz is a first year law student. E-mail him at isaac.ruiz.JJ@nd.edu. His column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 



Keep 
Brumbaughs 


Spirit Alive 
I have spent much time since the death of Justin Brumbaugh meditating on what 1t means to be a part of the Notre Dame family. I became a member of this family in August when I took up residence as Rector of Knott Hall. I began my ministry to the men of Knott with many questions whose answers I am still searching for. One such question is what is the value of the Notre Dame way of life? Is the phrase "Notre Dame family" just a neat sales pitch or does It really mean something? 
I have experienced the living out of that phrase ever since I set foot on this campus. I arrived here with a bad leg and was the recip­ient of the utmost concern from the service areas on campus and from the residents of our Hall. I have seen people who go out of their way to be of assistance to others. 
During the weeks following Justin's death, Knott Hall experienced a real outpouring of love and concern by the people of Notre Dame: administrators, faculty, stafT, students and other residence halls. The love and concern expressed to us was immeasurable. The University demonstrated that it really does put its money where its mouth is by providing transportation and lodging for many students to be able tQ attend the funeral in Dayton. In all of this, Ihave come to tho realization that we need to be aware of all of those qualities which unite us, as well as being aware of those that divide us, and need to be addressed in order for us to grow even to higher levels. 
Let us not let the spirit which Justin's death brought to this campus die. 
Let us grab the opportunity as one which will enable us to continue the love and respect which he ba~, and which we brought to the fore folloWing his death. 
Brother Jerome Meyer Rector, Knott Hall March 2. 1998 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
I M/9.3Ja?eMY7HERAI<&, 
~yTHe RACOIIIlCUR, JlfR­
!iMY THE GAPAEJOI/7/ 7HO&e 
Je.REMY!3 mKEA EJA~T 
IUH8/II YOU'ReATTEWPING lOA 
toV!fl?t:JNeAR.OI.JNI? 7118 
• 0UOTE OF THE DAY 
"Never fight an inanimate 
object." 
-P.J. O'Rourke 




VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 3, 1998 page 9 
• ALL ABOUT You 



Snail Mail vs. E-mail 
Empty. That's the one word that best describes my mailbox. I call it the black hole. I reitch in B,nd there is nothing there. It's a<le~pV:oid. 
But 1check it everyday an)I'Way;I am always hopeful it will one day ~Qntain. some scrap of paper. · · 
Bridget Rzezutko 
I guess I am just wondering -whatever happened to good old fashi®ed letter writing? 
Jn the old days people wrote h\tters a lot. I know. I am an English major. I am constantly reading someone'sjoumal, correspondence, or a book containing upper class people who can't wait for the mailman to arrive, hoping to receive some "favorable" letters from "agreeable" peo~ pie. 
Now we have new technologies like fax machines and e-mail that to some people, are just more convenient than "snail mail." 
Maybe so, but writing letters has always been a big part of' our lives. 
Remember \'\'hen you were younger and your parents made you write "thank yous" after every holiday orbirthday. even for those items you returned the next day anyway, like fuzzy pajamas, complete with footies? Or when we were in grade school and passing notes to one another, containing questions like, "Will you go with me? Check the box yes or no." 
I know not everyone is a letter writer. For example, my parents send me a card almost every week. It never says anything more than their names, but it is the thought behind it that makes my day a lit­tle brighter. It might also be because I got something besides campus mail telling me all about some club I apparently signed up for in the beginning of the yea:r, hut really have no clue what thl'iY are talking about, and haven't been active in at alL 
I remember I read a book on handwrit~ ing analysis once. Supposedly the way a person writes gives insight into his or her personality. In scientific fact it rates right up there with numerology and horo­scope's, but it's fun anyway. How big your name appears at the top of the page cor­responds to how the writer feels about you. So basically if your name is s() minis­cule you noed a magnifying glass to read it, there is a problem. Also, where a per­son crosses his or her T's shows his self­esteem level. If anything, these are fun things to look for, especially ifit is a lett.er from a love interest, or even some distant relative and all he is talking about is the weather and you have no idea who he is. (This actually happened to me once, so beware. It can happen to you, too. But knowing this information, you will now have something to do while reading it.) 
In a handwritten letter you can hear your friend talking. The way a certain word is written bigger than others or in a ditTerent color accentuates the way he or she would say it. Also, it is always easier to sort out feelings and thoughts on · paper. in order to make sure you say exactly the right thing. 
But perhaps the greatest reason to write someone a letter is "just because'' -just beeause you want to put a smile on someone's face. 
And even if the letter doesn't contain money, I guarantee you will. 
Bridget Rzezutko is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. Her column appears every other Tuesday. She can be e-mailed at rzez1904@saintmarys.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Win or Lose, Bouts' Participants Are Still Champs 
I write in an attempt to explain the incredible dynamics involved with the boxing program and Bengal Bouts. A lot of people see us up there in the ring one week out of the year and fail to get the full description of what the entire experi­ence is about. I hope this writing can in some small way allow the students of Notre Dame to understand some of what goes on both inside and ou~ide of the ring. 
To fully describe what exactly the program is all about, I have to start at the beginning. It was on an evening in September, when I was strolling through the activities fair, that I started the process of becoming a part of the greatest tradition at Notre Dame. 
Though the formal process for beginning the program start­ed when I signed the dotted line for participation, it was a long time ago that I actually was drawn into the program. I can recall vividly the tournament when I first saw it as a 10-year­old spectator. I saw boxers climb between the ropes and give their heart and soul to a cause that was greater whole than any single person could hope to be. I viewed the struggle for oxygen in the third round, when lesser people would have let their bodies crumble to the ground in exhaustion. But for these individuals, to give up when so much had already been given to the program would have been failure. 
It was this determination that possessed me to donate my body and soul to the Bengal Bouts mission for six weeks. I never could have imagined that such an undertaking would be as rewarding as it has turned out to be. 
However, during that first week of practice, I found that my determination was wavering. Doing multiple hundreds of push-ups, sit-ups, and jumping-jacks can do that to a person. But gradually, over the course of several weeks,! f'ound that practice was getting a little bit easier. Some of that was that my body was becoming more fit. But more than that, I found that a great source of my determination was the other people involved with the program. How could I give up when so many others were laying their heart and soul on the line to continue in the program? 
One of the people who was the greatest source of admiration for the program was senior captain Ryan Rans. Whenever I found myself not wanting to go to a practice, I would look to his example to inspire me. Every practice I ever went to, Ryan was there at least two hours before me. Ryan would dedicate this time before practice so that he would be able to help oth­ers in their technique and skills during the actual two hours of practice. Whenever a person had difficulty in some aspect of boxing, Ryan was there more than willing to dedicate his time and effort so that others may learn. 
Ryan has become one of' the greatest tragedies of the pro­gram, one that all of the boxers truly understand more than anyone else. Ryan suffered severe breakage to both of his hands during the fight on Wednesday. Though the cause is not known for certain, the most probable reason is that he suf­fered stress fractures during the course of the six week train­ing program and the fight caused the bones to finally give way. What makes this such a tragedy is that Ryan dedicated his life to the program. Without him, I am convinced that the program would not have progressed to such greatness this year. 
An example of Ryan's love.for the program occurred on Thursday. The finalists were enjoying their final meal together before the championships on Friday. The atmosphere was joy­ous, but also subdued because we had heard the news that our leader, Ryan, was in surgery to put his mangled hands back together. 
Who should appear halfway through the meal but Ryan, fresh out of surgery not a half an hour. He walked in with both hands bandaged heavily and sat down to eat. The entire room immediately began to applaud. Ryan tried valiantly to subdue the tears, but it was no use. He fmally laid his head in fellow captain Brian Gaffney's chest and let the emotions flow freely. I sat with a tremendous lump in my throat, unable to do any­thing to mend the sadness which held heavy over Ryan's heart. There was not a person at the table who wished they could have done something to fix that which was not fixable. Where we had seen a person who had delivered thundering jabs to his opponent, we now saw a person who struggled to feed himself. We had seen courage from Ryan inside the ring, and now we saw even greater demonstration of courage sim­ply by making himself present at nothing more than a ceremo­nial dinner. 
This example is just the greatest out of many of what kind of people participate in the program. The tournament was the · most incredible experience I have ever been a part of. The pure nervousness, the raw emotion, was unlike anything I've ever felt before. Walking into the ring, hearing the roar of the crowd, having your name announced, it was all incredible. I could do very little to maintai~ my composure when the semi­final fight started. I ended up winning the fight in a unanimous decision. The feeling when the referee raised my hand was incredible. The cheers from my friends made my heart leap. It was pure craziness. 
So then came Friday and the finals. As emotional as I was for the Wednesday fight, I was 10 times more so f'or the fmals. The stadium was packed with about 4,000 people cheering wildly. I was one of two competitors in the first fight, so the crowd was really into it. The adrenaline buzz I got before the fight is unlike anything I've ever felt. When 1got in the ring before they announced my name 1was in ecstacy. When the fight started 1could do little to not expend all of my energy in the first minute. During the second round my opponent Matt Peacock landed a flurry of punches that had me reeling, but I stayed in. I'm not sure what kept me from falling to the ground. I think it was a combination of all the things I have already mentioned. I thought back to the fighters I had seen as a child and their determination to not let their bodies drop. I recalled the dedication of the other fighters. I thought about the people in Bangladesh whom I was fighting for so that they may be nourished. The dedication of Ryan Rans to make it to a simple dinner just to be a part of the program crossed my mind and I f'ound strength in that example. 
I knew my opponent had won when we hugged in the mid­dle of the ring when the final bell sounded. As we hugged I offered my congratulations. I felt great for Matt Peacock because he was a senior and had never won a championship. Plus, he, like all the other boxers, is an incredible person, to whom I feel a closeness that I expect we will feel for the rest of our lives. -As I walked out to the middle of the ring for the deci­sion to be announced, I lost it. My eyes started tearing up and I tried to hold them back until I could get back to the locker room, but it was no use. I was incredibly joyful that I could be a part of such a noble cause. I thanked God that I could be a 

part of such a great tradition, for the absolutely tremendous people I had met, for the University for offering a program that could get me so emotionally wrapped up. 
Most of all, I thanked God for giving me the ability to have the determination and strength to fulfill my goal of getting in the ring. As I walked from the ring to the locker room, I lost it. Everyone was offering congratulations on my effort. I was thanking them as I tried to no avail to hold back my tears. When I got to the locker room, I was so emotional that I was hyper-ventilating. And then when I thought I couldn't get any more emotional, my Dad walked into the locker room to offer congratulations. We hugged and I was crying and he had tears in his eyes. It was one of the moments I will treasure for the rest of my life. 
After my dad left I was sitting in front of my locker thinking about the whole thing, trying to take it all in. I sat there crying. Jack Mooney, an 85 year old man who has been a part of' the program for 50 years, walked up to me and said, ''I'm proud of you." Mike Romanchek walked up and offered words of wis­dom which I will always remember. He said, "Did you give it your all?" I replied that I had. He said, "Anyone who gives their all in the ring is automatically a champion." I sat there, not wanting to take off my shorts, because that would mean the whole thing would be over. But I knew that the end had come. I changed my clothes, and walked out of the dressing room with my head held high. 
David Frick 
Sophomore, Keough Hall 
March I, 1998 



ACCENT
page 10 Tuesday, March 3, 1998 








By MICHAEL PEPPARD Accent Writer 
P
erhaps one can relate to this common exchange between Notre Dame student and one of his non-Notre Dame friend The student makes a reference to some strange and appa ently cultish tradition that he practices as a Catholic, witho) remembering that his friend has no idea what genuflecting, vel ments, or "getting my ashes" is all about. So his friend repV with a condescending, "Catholics arc so weird and exclusive vJ your silly mythological traditions" retort. The Notre Dame stud1 tries to explain the source of the allegedly exclusive mythold but the damage is already done. In his friend's mind, the worlc Catholicism is exiled to a lonely ancient island of rules that just no fun. 
The season of Lent and the rules and restrictions which acc1 pany it are just the stuff of such traditions which confuse m people. But despite the initial appearances, Lent is not ab adherence to rules. It is rather about denials of particular s gratifications ...,..-a time set aside to focus on these denials wl should exist all year. 
The self-imposed temperance and abstinence, which se1 exclusively Catholic to many non-Catholics in America, is actu the most ecumenical aspect of Catholicism. After all, Islam the fast month of Ramadan. Buddhism maintains the notion denial of desire is the only way to truly combat suffering. seems, upon close examination. that every major religion in • world -and even secular forms of wisdom about the self-agr on this concept. It is a good thing to deny gratification to son desires. 
What does it mean, though, that religions across space and tim 




ACCENT
Tuesday, March 3, I998 
page II 

/

s 0 



reedom 
t·e

. ' •...•.... .. 




agree about a certain practice? If we hold the ecumenical belief that portions of truth are revealed in different ways to different religions, then this agreement can only mean one thing. The denial of selfish desire gratification is the most religious move­ment we can make with our bodies. 
God has revealed through different people and different customs that human desires can never be totally satisfied, and they always point to a higher sensation which we try to tap into. By attempt­ing to eradicate such self-serving desires, we then move toward a paradoxical human freedom. 
The true freedom of a Christian, and indeed of a human being, thus lies in the restrictions of Lent. How can· that be -that free­dom stems from restrictions. Our modern minds, shaped by Kantian philosophers concerned with the primacy of the will, have difficulty receiving the truth of such a stark paradox. But when we get past our normal conceptions of freedom, we find the bril­liance of Lent. 
After all, from where does freedom derive? Are we free because we have the ability to make choices? Republican or Democrat, for here or to go, paper or plastic, and the like? No, the true freedom of a human being comes through battling the addiction to desire gratification. How can one be truly free when she can't proceed without a cigarette? !low can one be truly free when he can't go on without another beer? 
The ecumenical charge of Lent certainly runs much deeper than nicotine and booze. The season resides at the heart of Christianity and, more than any other aspect of Catholicism, at the heart of the universal spiritual quest. The varieties of practical worship and religious experience are wound up into the season of Lent. 
In respecting the ecumenical import of these 40 days, we can vanquish the false freedom felt through self-gratification and approach the true freedom of a suffering servant. 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------__1 
'c···e· 
·····,. ·••••. & • 


Accent Copy Editor 
I . .. 
.... . .···. . .,.. , 

n March.of199S'l'k am~. A sertior inil, publkhigh 
school and a child o t Notre Danie was the place for 
m~. Five rears ~~te:r; rig}J,~~hoic~,;:(lnd that I've: learne~.a lot 
more than I ever thoug 
Before coming to Notr season's meaning: ltreJ> nt the desert, and mostiniportan y ays ofifesus in the wilderness (not to mention a plethora of other significances no,t mentioned here). We celebrate Lent in anticipation of the resurrection qf ,J~s d b ·. _ethiJi~ ip\POEt!int, WC'l cons~a,11t1y r~mind 
ourselves of where our . .... . . . .. . During my freslutmn y er as baffied·by the #.lea of~tto meat on 'Fridays"· at the dining hall, even t]1()Ugh 1~11~\o\' olicpra · .I di~'t understand why ,people didn't want to go oqt ori ~JiW . . . . d Icoul . believetfiat an enormous popu.:. lation of people actually fasted fort e entirety of Ash Wednesday. At first, these ideas .c nded>me.aJ:ld made me somewp~t uncQmfort!ible••hl.lt {ts 1 explored their me . syntbrilic a;nd physical reminder$ oi Catholicism, r gr-ew to admire and appre((iate them. · ·. Th~ appre~iation gqe e any .rit!l c.l ;:~.¢tivities that I'v{J seen people at Notre Dame particip ·. . d .. ·.. ,It is ;in a .... iation for the connrtuility's devo­tion to Catholicism, and its devotion to God. Allin the Notre Dame community are fortu­nate to have so >rn;<tny () tt.lPAFes .t rticlpate in Catho~cism Jn so m~ny different ways, and l must say t . . s a: .Qon~ olic; I've felt welcomed to parttcipate in the Catholic aspect of the Not:re Dam~ comntunity. · Since then. I've l~~co Tb. ·~~· ~xplori11g ;lilY lJ.~dersta;nding of Chri~tianity and developing a deep (:{ .. . . .. . . . . or ga;tholici$tl1. 'Iichr<mgh both exploring and developing, I've come to love Not:r~ Dam~·s deep and diverse religious foundations in way I never dreamed ofas a high sc 
· · ·· · Which brings us tt>Match19 . . .... We're nearly a week into the Lenten season and many, ....~,........u•1'. .. their .timelhave I guess I that.I.have you The answer is: Living buttbe hare gi~g up cl~sses So far, it's been 
..
home and talk 
sit down at 
each other .. [ 
I've had niY frust,t~~tin:g switch a couple of times. It's hard .....,.,,'"'''''''l<l'l•><• 1'l through acloset to find the lysol · ------"'-'-over. 'But as 
long as I've ef9r~:qightfa11.• ,..,,,..,...th1'""""'""S a!) planned. 
So what 
We at Notre of sensory overload, and of activ­
ities at nearlY for J':etlection, to make tipte for 
the people a.nd ide·a!lth~tfil ·· life;ltis difficult to focus .on what 
is important, but we most need to beginfocusing. For 
Christians. the most iinJPotta.rtt soon arrive, as we.will celebrate the resurrec~
::::..:{:\::::jF . .. ... : . . . . . . ~ 

tionhfJesus Christ 
Inthe meantime, we :>u<n<>o.u.u.oJ<, for Lent ta constantly remind us that the Easter 
rAT.f>f'11" 01tf ~piritual lives for that reason. Use 
, _yvv:n•P••·· b\(t also ~ bett(!r understand Notre 
such a deeply rooted religious institu­
witp]1lston;.. and meanin~ of Catholicism. The 
give 'US this joyful season when we prepare to 
and heart renewed." Make this season· one of 
c11ti ~akel..f.lllt a truly joyfttl season. 


page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
• NHL 
Penguins sweep Maple Leafs 
Associatrd Press 
PITTSBURGH, Penn. 
Alexei Morozov and Stu Barnes scored goals 1:33 apart early in the first period to lift the Pittsburgh Penguins to a 3­1 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs at the Igloo. The Penguins swept the two­game season series and have won four straight over the Leafs. 
Morozov and Barnes capped a burst of four goals in the first 4:49ol' the game. Morozov snapped a 1-1 tie with a goal on a shot from the left cirele at 
3: 16 and Barnes converted a cross-crease pass from Jaromir Jagr on a power play for his 25th goal of the season. 
Tom Barrasso shut the door from thnre. lie made seven saves in the first period. then turned aside all 11 shots he faced in the second. Barrasso made nine saves in the third period and finished with 27. 
Felix Potvin was also stellar in net for Toronto. He stopped 35 shots, including 30 in the final two periods. 
Devils 4, Flyers :J 
Steve Thomas's strange goal on a breakaway with 6:06 remaining Monday night lifted the New Jersey Devils past the Philadelphia Flyers 4-3. 
The victory moved the Atlantic Division-leading Devils 13 points ahead of the runnnr­up Flyers. The Devils, who have won seven straight, extended their unbeaten streak to eight. 
Thomas saved New Jersey after it blow a three-goal lead. 
As Thomas broke into the Philadelphia zone, goalie Ron llnxtall came out to to cut down tho shooting angle. 
Thomas nudged the puck between the goalie's pads and it tricklnd into the open net before any other Flyers could track it down. 
After the embarrassing score, an enraged I Iextall shattered his stick by smashing it over the crossbar. 
Brian Holston scored twice and Handy McKay added a goal as the Devils continued their season-long mastery of the Fly1~rs. Nnw Jersey has won the thren m1wtings by a combined 13-4.
.. 
Chris Gratton. Colin Forbes and Mike Sillinger scored for tlw Flyers, who have lost six of their last eight (2-6-0). 

Atlantic Division 
W L T New Jersey 37 16 6 Philadelphia 30 17 9 Washington 26 22 11 NY Rangers 18 25 16 NY Islanders 2Q.c. 31 . 8 Florida 
~ ~~·~t ~~~;1 ~ 
Tampa Bay 
Northeast Division '·· · 
W L;)}T Pittsburgh 30 17 13 Montreal 28 23:. '7 Bosto!1 
Buffalo ~~ ~~;:u Ottawa 23 28'10 Carolina 2,J..
'(/0·~30':~,7 •• 
~~ 
Central Division > · 
W: L ·T 
Dallas 38;)13 '9 Detroit .321513 St. Louis 32 22 8 Phoenix 24 25 11 Chicago 23 26 10 Toronto 20 30 8 
Pacific Division 
w L T Colorado 31 14 16 Los Angeles 27 21 10 Edmonton 21 29 10 San Jose 22 29 7 Anaheim 20 30 9 Calgary 17 30 12 Vancouver 18 33 9 

Pts  Div  
80  17-3-2  
69  12-5-3  
63  10-8-4  
52  5-12-6  

48~ 6·11-4 .. ·~g~~sq1~6q34 
Pts 73 63 62 60 56 
4\ 
Pts 85 77 72 
59,· 56 48 
Pts 78 64 12-6-1 52 8-15-1 51 9-10-2 49 8-12-2 46 9-9-3 45 9-10-5 
Conf 29-7-3 22-7-7 18-15-7 10-18-9 13-21-5 17-16-5 8-27-7 
18-14-4 17-21-4 15-20-3 12-21-5 11-23-8 13-23-8 
Sabres 1, Rangers 0 

Dominik I Iasek just keeps on stopping everything sent his way. 
Hasek got his second shutout in two days as the Buffalo Sabres extended their unbeaten streak to 13 with a 1"0 victory over the New York Rangers on Monday night. 
Hasek. who b+anked Washington 3-0 Sunday, recorded his NHL-Ieading ninth shutout in carrying ovnr his great work from the Olympics, when he led the Czech Republic to the gold medal. 
It was the third straight time Hasek held the Rangers score­less, extending his shutout streak against New York to 198 minutes. 46 seconds. It was the first time in Sabres history they shut out a team three times in a row. 
The Sabres. 7-0-6 over their last 13 games, have not lost since Jan. 20, when they were beaten 3-0 by Philad(ollphia. Hasek, starting his third game since returning from Nagano, extended his personal unbeaten streak to 11 (6-0-5). 
Hasek made 32 saves, includ­ing an outstanding perfor­mance in the first period, when the Rangers outshot the Sabres 13-3. He preserved the shutout when he made three fine stops on Brian Leetch from in close in the last five minutes of the game, two on deflections, then made a great left-pad save on Pat LaFontaine in the final 10 seconds. 
The game marked John Muckier's first coaching appearance against the team that fired him as general man­ager last year. Since taking over for the fired Colin Campbell during the Olympic break. Muckier is 1-2. 
The Sabres went ahead at 

2:05 of the second period. Zhitnik beat a screened Mike Hichter with a quick shot after skating into the right circle. 
Otherwise. Hichter was per­fect, making 17 saves. 
Olympians confront adjustment problems 

ODENTON, Md. 
Ron Wilson was angry. February was bad enough for the U.S. Olympic coach, and 
·March hasn't started any better. 
"You need a lucky bounce," Wilson said Monday after the Washington Capitals' morn~ ing practice. "And we haven't had many." 
Wilson was talking about the Capitals, but he could just as easily have been describ­ing himself. 
After his Olympic team fln· ished in sixth place in Nagano and was then embar­rassed after some players trashed a suite in the Olympic village, Wilson returned home to find his NHL team in disarray. 
First, the Capitals lost con­secutive games to the worst team in the league, the Tampa Bay Lightning. Actually, it's three straight counting the Lightning's vic· tory when the two teams met in the last game before the Olympics. 
On Sunday, Wilson ran into a nemesis, Czech goaltender Dominik Hasek. who ended the U.S. team's hopes in the quarterfinals at the Olympics. 
Back with Buffalo, Hasek shut out Washington 3-0 for the Capitals' fourth straight loss. Combining the play of the Capitals and the U.S. team, Wilson has won just two of his last 13 times behind the bench. 
All of which made for a somber practice as Washington prepared for Tuesday night's home game against Boston. Wilson tried to shake things up by chang­ing lines and imploring his defense to be more aggres­sive. Afterward, Wilson was in little mood for conversa­tion. 
"What's it matter to you?" Wilson shot back when asked if he was going to keep his crewcut. Wilson cut his hair before the Americans' final game in Nagano, a failed attempt to inspire his players with the same look he had when he led the United States to the World Cup title two years ago. 
While many Olympic play­ers have said the readjust­ment to the NHL routine has been difficult, Wilson is not complaining. 
"That's not a problem at all," he said. "It's like you don't even think you've been gone." 
Wilson then gave a few thoughts about his Capitals players, calling them "pas­sive" and lacking chemistry. He then refused to do a pro­motional sound bite for a local radio station and disap­peared into his otlice. 
Defenseman Joe Reekie said the coach's bleak mood was understandable. 
"He's the same. We're all on the same page. It's just frustratingany time you lose," Reekie 'said. "You've got to find answers. We're just trying to find ways to win." 
To Wilson's credit, he has already taken his share of the blame for the U.S. perfor­mance. 
"I kept saying the first three games didn't matter," he said before leaving Nagano. "Now I look back and we should have done things differently." 
He was also quick to decry the vandalism of the Olympic village. 
"I'm embarrassed by it," Wilson said. "It is inexcus­able what they did. It shows no class at all. Unfortunately, everybody is guilty by associ­ation." 
In a television appearance last week, Wilson cited the 
U.S. women's gold medal performance when asked to pick out a positive experience from the Olympics. 
He said there will "always be a hole in my heart" because he couldn't help the men bting home a medal. 
But don't ask Wilson about the Olympics now. There's no more time to wallow in far­away failures. His Capitals are on a skid and it's up to the coach to figure a way out. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame olfice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classitleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for comem without issuing refunds. 
..  CLASS  OF  '98  Michiana Paintball al Scollsdale  Daily­ 
.____N_o_T_Ic_E_s_  __.l  .._I_F_o_R_RE_N_T_  __.II  FOR SALE  L A  Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor play. Students w/Nd-SMC 10-1/2  Big, Fal, Stupid, Proud lo be from Texas.  
S  SENIOR  price field fee.  -Shoe  
2·6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR  Sick of being stuck on campus?  S  WEEK  291-2540.  
THE COPY SHOP - CAMPUS.AVAIL NOW &  1988 Pontiac GrandAm LE  II was a drive by fruiting!  
LaFortune Sludenl Center  FALL272·6551  call Holly 289·2887 $1800obo  0  Hey -did you know...  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY. LATE,  F  IS  So whal if you looked like King Tut  
AND WEEKENDS!!!  APT.  New Buffalo, MI.  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  We're open early, late, and week­ alleast you didn't gel a spol on the  
Mon · Thur  7:30am • Midnight  Prof or Grad Student who com­ with orthopedic mallress sel and  9  COMING  ends for your convenience!  carpel.  
Fri  7:30am -7:00pm  mutes between Chicago & NO  deluxe frame. New. never used. still  8  -­THE COPY SHOP ·­ 
Sal  Noon · 6:00pm  Non·smoker pref. No pels.  1-800·  in plastic. $225 219-862·2082  LaFortune Student Center  Julie·  
Sun  Noon -Midnight  265-1682.  Happy Birthday lo Hollywood Stan!!  Phone 631-COPY  I am a barfly.  
CALL 631-COPY  TICKETS  Happy Birthday lo Baron Von  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  I have nothing!  
ILOST & FOUND I  ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595  I need lickels. Tickets, tickets! Yeah.  Muffburgerll Spend il with a cigar and a couple of close friends. And don'l punch the clown.  babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles. skisuils and a toasty fire· place in winter. Love and joy for  Hsu rocks even if he wears a funny scarf!  
LOST: blue and red backpack on  PERSONAL  IRISH CONNECTION  your baby all year long. Happy, car· ing professional couple would love  I am much loo young lo feellhis  
3rd floor Lafortune. Reward  New 5 bdrm. 2 balh home with LR.  lo provide a new born wilh love, joy  old.  
offered. Call Tim @ 4014  FR, outdoor deck. & 2 car garage  HEY SMC STUDENTS  The Connection is pleased lo  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ 
within walking distance of campus.  announce the unveiling of lhe Hill  800·484-7011 Pin #4523  Classifieds are a big pain!!!  
Has A/C, gas. heat, stove. refrig,  Saint Mary's VISA program  Sl. Lounge. A relaxed environment  
G!D. DIW. W & D. $1500 per mo.  (Volunteers In Support of  where you can dance or just hang  NEW! RUN BY FREAKS!  We love him even if he has an  
Found: A Jack Russel Terrier on  232·4527.  Admission) is calling out lo all  out, lhe Lounge is now open on  www.nd.edu/-ddesigns  obsession with a fleece vest  
Feb. 27. If yours. please call 634·  women to share their love of SMC  Tuesday and Wednesday evenings.  You've gollo see it to believe it!  
3331  FREE SUMMER STORAGE  wilh prospective students. We need  Bring your pennies. Open at 8.  Nol your average stop on the nel!!  Mark DeBoy rocks because he  
'98·'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar.  SMC students to return to their high  saved us lonightl Thank God for  
WID. V-Ball Cl. 1628 Portage.  schools over Spring Break and talk  HILL ST. LOUNGE  RENT 1628 PORTAGE '98-'991  him.  
WANTED  234·3831 I 273-0482  aboullheir college experience with students. We are also in need of  SAINT PATRICK'S DAY. Make  234·3831 I 273-0482  He did nol wrile that I did.  
Summer sublel: 2 BDRM. 2 bath­ campus lour guides. Interested?  plans, buy tickets while you can for  Four days tilllhe Sandpiper.  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  College Park; unfurnished-good  Calllhe SMC admission office  The Callie Fiddle Festival. Tickets  Good Nightll  
please call 219·271-0633  condition: 243·8563  x4587!  at LaFortune.  I amjob!l  


Tuesday, March 3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 


Spring training gives way to start of exhibition ball 

Associated Press ing single, Russ Moorman run second inning. 
drew a bases-loaded walk and Martinez, Chad Curtis, Tim 
While Hoger Clemens was hit Cairo scored on a passed ball Raines and Luis Sojo each had hard in his spring debut, Mark as Tampa Bay batted around two of New York's 19 hits in McGwire once again flashed in the inning. the first meeting between the the form that makes him a teams since Cleveland elimi­
Red Sox 13, Pirates 8
threat to Roger Maris' home­nated the Yankees in the AL run record. At Fort Myers, Fla., Boston division series last October. 
Dmitri Young singled in two scored 10 runs in the first two Sojo was in the left hand by runs and Eddie Taubensee had innings and Nomar Jaret Wright's first pitch. X­a two-run homer as the Garciaparra homered for his rays were negative. 
Cincinnati Reds rocked Hoger first hit in 11 spring at-bats. 
Phillies 8, Twins 4
Clemens and beat the Toronto Garciaparra, the AL Rookie Blue Jays 7-0 Monday at of the Year, made the score At Fort Myers, Fla., Kevin Sarasota, Fla. 12-4 with his solo homer in the Jordan had four hits and 
Cincinnati scored five runs seventh. John Valentin hit a Philadelphia took advantage of on seven hits in the first inning two-run homer in Boston's six errors. 
against the AL Cy Young four-run first after AI Martin's Defense spoiled the Twins Award winner. He threw 75 solo homer had put thePirates debut of Mike Morgan, pitch­pitches in two innings, struck ahead. ing for his 1Oth team in a 20­out live and walked three. Dennis Eckersley retired all year career. Three errors in 
Heds starter Pete Harnisch three batters he faced in the the first led to three unearned gave up one hit in three sixth inning, his first appear­runs. But Morgan also looked innings. Mark Hutton gave up ance for the Red Sox since rusty, giving up three hits and 
one hit and struck out four in they traded him to the Chicago two walks in two innings. four innings. Cubs in 1984. 
Orioles 11, Expos 9
At Jupiter, Fla., Mark 
Marlins 5, Mets 4
McGwire hit a three-run At Fort Lauderdale. Fla., 
homer. his second home run of At Melbourne, Fla., Luis Eric Davis homered and dou­the spring, as the St. Louis Castillo singled home the go­bled. Davis, who battled colon Cardinals piled up 15 hits and ahead run in the eighth inning cancer last season, gave routed the Los Angeles as Florida rallied. Baltimore a 4-2 lead in the Dodgers 13-5. Marlins starter Livan third with an opposite-field 
McGwire, who hit a 450-Hernandez, the MVP of the shot to right off Carl Pavano. homer Saturday in his first World Series and NL champi­He also doubled and scored on spring game.connected in a onship series, made his first a double by Cal Ripken in the 
live-run second inning off Dan appearance of the spring and second. Hubbs. Hookie Juan Munoz, 0-allowed two hits in two Shane Andrews went 3-for-3 for-7 in the first two games, shutout innings. for the Expos, outscored 23-11 
hit a three-run homeroff Eric in three losses this spring.
Tigers 6, Rangers 3
Weaver in the seventh. 
Astros 7, Braves 6
At Lakeland, Fla., Damion
Devil Rays 6, Royals 2 
Easley hit a grand slam as At Kissimmee, Fla., Mitch 
At St. Petersburg, Fla., Detroit sent Texas to its first Meluskey hit a tiebreaking,Tampa Bay, which started 0-2. loss in four games this season. bases-loaded double in the scored four runs in the seventh Bryce Florie, obtained in an ninth inning following a pair of 
and won for the first time offseason trade with errors. 
against major league competi­Milwaukee, followed starter Houston got two walks in the 
tion. Scott Sanders and got the win, ninth by Pedro Borbon, mak­
Mike Kelly began the seventh allowing one run and one hit ing his first appearance in a with a single off Hod Steph, in 2 1-3 innings. game since tearing the medial stol!~ second, took third collateral ligament of his left
on 
Yankees 12, Indians 8
Mike DiFelice's bunt and elbow in August 1996. scored when Steph mishandled At Winter Haven, Fla., Dale Borbon felt something in his Aaron Ledesma's chopper for Sveum hit a two-run double elbow after walking J.R. 
an error. and Tino Martinez followed Phillips -the fifth batter he Miguel Cairo had a run-scor-with a two-run homer in a six-faced -and took himself out 

Is Your Spanish Good? Are You Interested in Latin America? 
If So, The Kellogg Institute has a competition for three summer internships for undergraduates in 


Washington, DC 
with two groups that lobby and publicize Latin American and Third World issues 

Minneapolis 
with a group of lawyers that works with legal and illegal aliens 
For more information contact 
either  or  
Michael}. francis, Director  The Main Office  
Latin American Area Studies  Kellogg Institute  
110 Hurley  216 Hesburgh Center  
631-5203/6469  631-6580  

APPLICATION DEADLINE FRIDAY, MARCH 27, 1998 

of the game. He will be exam­ined Tuesday. 
Angels 11, Giants 10 
At Tempe, Ariz., rookie Troy Glaus tied the game with a two-out homer in the ninth, and Frank Bolick's run-scoring single two batters later gave Anaheim the victory over. 
Giants reliever Erik Plantenberg was one out away from a save when Glaus home­red. Justin Baughman tripled before Bolick drove in his sec­ond run of the game. 
Diamondbacks 7, Brewers 4 
At Phoenix, Andy Benes allowed one run and three hits in two innings, and Travis Lee went 2-for-3, homered and drove in two runs for Arizona, which improved to 4-0. 


US 31 NORTH 
Delivery 273-3890 Lunch and Regular Hours 
Lunch ll-2 




On Tuesdays and Thursdays A 14''P:izza WithAuy2 Toppings For Only$8.oo 





' 2 7 3-03 8 9 0 
I ~­
: ,, sT I L L T H E B E sT II 
':

L~~--~----~"~-,~~-,--·----~~--~-~-~---~---~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Possibly no 'Mo' driving for Red Sox slugger Vaughn 
Associated Press 
DEDHAM, Mass. 
Mo Vaughn had been drink­ing at a strip club before he crashed into a car parked beside the highway and flipped his pickup, according to testi­mony Monday at his trial on drunken driving charges. 
"It was obvious that he was intoxicated," Trooper Paul McCarthy said, reaching the conclusion after the Hed Sox first baseman failed eight sobriety tests. "There's no doubt in my mind." 
But defense attorney Kevin Heddington tried to show that the sobriety tests were tainted because Vaughn had a "recur­rent" knee injury, was on wet ground and taking allergy medication and had gained 
weight in the offseason  - all  
affecting his balance.  
Vaughn  was  driving  in  

Norwood early Jan. 9 when he struck a Ford Escort parked on the shoulder and rolled his pickup truck. 
Hichard Ball, the first officer on the scene, said he was sat­isfied that Vaughn was not injured and then took him away from the crowd that had gathered. On their way back towards the patrol car to administer the sobriety tests, Ball testified, Vaughn bumped into him several times. 
On the actual tests, Vaughn performed even worse, includ­ing failing three times to recite the alphabet correctly, Ball testified. 
That, combined with what the officers described as blood­shot and glassy eyes, confusion about the cause of the accident and Vaughn's admission that he had been drinking led the officers to arrest him. He was charged with operating under the influence of alcohol; if con­victed, a first-time offender typically gets his license sus­pended for 45-90 days. 
Vaughn, who has said he will not testify in his defense, sat quietly at his lawyers' table in a black and white, five-button suit with gold hoop earrings. 
After an hour of jury selec­tion, District Court Judge Gerald Alch acknowledged that the defendant is famous, then warned the jurors to disregard that fact. 
"The defendant in this case is a professional baseball play­er. He is a member of the Boston Hed Sox," he said. "That's not a factor in this 
Wfi9~ g'~ 06serwr tn a1't6ruaJ] 11, 1998 ACCEXg" arttck8a9that ffit Yrogram of06ug{ Stu~ m'!1ors haw"atsttncrtwattri6utes that con­1TastwiffiffioK of1TootttonalXotreDamestuOO\ts"f 
Cometo aY.CS ortmtcrttonmttttngg'ontgfitat7:30 tn ffit 06ral]tounge1100Jlna outwfigl 

was recm~ sdectro as an "Outstan~n9 example ofthe Besttn Amatcan EOOcatton" 
~are now accepting appdcattonsfor tts entering S~fiomore Class. Appftcattons are now ~{a6{e tn 215 O'Sfumgne&!J. Appdcatton ~llne ts ~3. 
1'or mort biformattoncome to tfit orimtation mttttnaor cfitckoutour we6 aitt at:www.na.eau~pca. 

HolyCross 

Fr. Jim King. cs.c 
Fr. Bill Wack. c.s c 
Community Service Commitment 
For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate Program contact 
Moreau Seminary Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 
case. It is to work neither for tion. And the jury did not seem nor against him." overly interested that one of 
The clerk, who referred to the city's most beloved athletes Vaughn repeatedly as "Morris" -at least until his current -his real name is Maurice -contract negotiations turned didn't need any such admoni-acrimonious -was among them. 
A handful of Hed Sox fans, however, waited outside the courtroom in the morning holding a sign that said, "Free M0. " 
The Society tor Industrial and Applied Mathematics anHuum:~s 

SIAM Journals Online 
http://epubs.siam.org 

''
\ Society for Indu5lrial and Applied Mathomallt.:~J \ 3600 Uni\lcrsity City Science l'tnter "' t'htladelpbla, PA 19104~~614~ ~ 215.. J82~9800' Fax: 215~386-7999' siam@s1om.org"' www.stanLnrK 
'<~ 

URL ACCESSIBLE VIA COMPUTERS WITHIN ND.EDU DOMAIN 
AD COURTESY OF MATHEMATICS AND ENGINEERING BRANCHES OF THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARIES OF NOTRE DAME 



L----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------­
-~-~~ -~-~ ~----~-----~--~---------­
Tuesday, March 3, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 


Ifyou believe UNIVERSITY= a UNion ofdiVERSITY 
Then come join the MULTICULTURAL EXECUTIVE COUNCIL 

Pick up Applications in the Student Activities Office 315 LaFortune Deadline: March 20th 


All Students are Welcome to Apply 
For every difference that makes us unique, there is a common thread which connects us all. We share the need for home and community, for love and respect. May these common threads form a beautiful world in which all people and all cultures are honored. 
-Hallmark 

page 16 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 2, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

Blue Devils secure top spot with win over Tar Heels 
Associated Press 
Duke's dramatic victory over North Carolina kept the Blue Devils No. 1 in the AP college basketball poll Monday, while Mississippi broke into the Top Ten for the first time in school history. 
The next-to-last poll of the season had Duke (27-2). which beat the Tar Heels 77­7.'5 Saturday, easily on top for the second straight week with 48 first-place votes and 1,724 points from the national media panel. 
Arizona (26-3). which extended the nation's longest current winning streak to 19 games with a 90-.'58 victory over Stanford on Saturday, held second with 20 No. 1 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
were able to bounce back." 
With ten minutes remaining in the first half, the Irish were able to cut the lead to nine when they put together a 6-0 run, capped on· by a Ruth Riley layup. But it seemed like the Huskies always had an answer as they went on an 8-2 run of their own and built the lead back to 30-15. 
The Irish gained some momentum heading into the locker room as Niele lvey scored the final four points of the half. The Irish found them­selves down only 10 despite their slow start. 
"We felt we were still in the game." commented McGraw. "We didn't think we could pos­sibly play any worse and we were only down 10." 
Although UConn, who had 
votes and 1,684 points. 
Kansas (31-3), which closed the regular season with a win at Oklahoma State on Sunday, switched places with North Carolina, moving into third with the other two first-place votes and 1,580 points, 17 more than the Tar Heels (27­
3). 
Those teams have held the top four positions in different orders for the last five weeks. 
Utah, Connecticut and Kentucky held places 5-7, while Princeton moved up one spot to No. 8 and Purdue jumped two places to ninth. 
Mississippi (21-5) closed the regular season with wins over Arkansas and Auburn and moved from 13th to No. 10. The Rebels had never been 
played poorly in the second half against West Virginia, connect­ed on two straight three-point­ers to open the second half and the Huskies pulled ahead 41­23. 
"They put us away when they came out 8-0 and hit those two three-pointers," said McGraw. 
The Huskies never looked back as they built their lead to as many as 24 before rolling to victory, 73-53. 
"They play hard and with tremendous intensity," said McGraw. "Unfortunately we backed down. I thought we learned that lesson earlier this year, but we didn't." 
Aside from their 31 turnovers which included at least half a dozen traveling violations, the Irish shooting woes carried over from the Villanova game, as they continued to struggle from the outside. Notre Dame shot just 37 percent from the field as a team and Sheila McMillen, who connected on a 
Women•s All-Big Eas 

ALL-BIG EAST THIRD Paige Sauer Sophoi'Jlt)te Connecticut Whitney Steele Junior· Boston College Sylita Thomas Junior Georgetown Jenny Higgins Senior Villanova 
Mollie Petrick Senior _Notre Dame 
ALL-ROOKIE TEAM 
Svetlna Abrosimova G/F Connecticut Jen Gombotz F Providence Linda Miles G/F Rutgers Natasha Pointer G Rutgers 

ranked until last season, and that was just for one week. They were 23rd in the presea­son poll and have been ranked every week this sea­son. 
Stanford dropped three spots to lead the Second Ten and was followed by Michigan State, Texas Christian, Cincinnati, South Carolina, Arkansas, Michigan, Illinois, UCLA and New Mexico. 
The last five teams were Maryland, Syracuse, West Virginia, Temple and Oklahoma State. 
The No. 13 ranking is the highest for Texas Christian since the Horned Frogs were 12th in the poll released Jan. 22, 1952. 
Maryland (18-9), the third-

Big East tournament record eight three-pointers in the first round game against St. John's, was held to just one-for-1 0 shooting. 
The Irish also weren't able to go inside for the easy basket like they had in their two previ­ous tournament games. Freshman Kelley Siemon and Riley were held in check by UConn's own big men, Kelley Schumaker and Paige Sauer, both of whom stand 6-foot-5 . Hiley, who fouled out with just under five minutes remaining in the game, and Siemon fin­ished with 12 and six points, respectively. Niele Ivey was the Irish's second leading scorer with 10 points despite a three­for-t 0 shooting performance. Danielle Green added nine points and nine boards for Notre Dame who surprisingly out rebounded Connecticut 38­
32. Senior Mollie Peirick dished out 5 assists, but committed six turnovers. 
Amy Duran, who played sen­sational defense against McMillen, scored 15 points for place team in the Atlantic Coast Conference behind Duke and North Carolina, re­entered the rankings after a one-week absence. The Terrapins have won three straight games, the last an 83-66 non-conference victory over Temple on Saturday. 
Massachusetts (20-9), which lost 74-66 at Temple on Sunday after losing in double overtime at St. Bonaventure earlier in the week, fell out of the rankings after a four­week run that saw the Minutemen get as high as No. 18. 
Two Big Ten teams ­Michigan and Illinois -made the week's biggest jumps, each improving four places. The Wolverines went from 
Connecticut. Stacy Hansmeyer, who was scoreless in the teams' last meeting, finished with 21 to lead all scorers. Svetlana Ambrosimova added 19, includ­ing 10 first-half points. 
Despite the disappointing loss to UConn, the tournament was not a total loss for Notre Dame. The Irish recorded the fifth-
I II I ~ \ I \ W 2 5 tJ, l) tJ tJ 


WOivlEN 
will die of a 
MAN~S 

DISEASE. 
21st to No. 17 with wins over Penn State and Wisconsin. Illinois moved from 22nd to No. 18 with a road victory over Indiana. 
Three teams dropped four places this week: Arkansas, New Mexico and West Virginia. 
Arkansas went from 12th to No. 16 after losses at Mississippi and Alabama. New Mexico fell from 16th to No. 20 after falling to Brigham Young to end the nation's sec­ond-longest home winning streak and at Utah. West Virginia dropped from 19th to No. 23 following road losses to Boston College and Miami. 
The final poll of the season will move the day after Selection Sunday. 
consecutive 20-win season and solidified a berth in this year's NCAA tournament which gets underway March 13. 
"l think we definitely deserve to be in the tournament despite what you saw out here," said McGraw. "I don't think we'll get a home game, but I have no doubt that we should be there." 

Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study To be part of a small faith sharing group .. . To deepen understanding of Scripture ... To experience Christian Community .. . 
You are invited to hear about EMMAUS and to join a small group at the next Emmaus Rally 
Wednesday, March 4 following Contemporary Prayer in Stanford/Keenan Chapel 
7:30P.M.: Music and Prayer 
0MPUS


8:00 P.M.: Emmaus Rally MINISTRY 


----~----~-------~ --~------~-------.., 
Tuesday, March 3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
time in three years. they even know what hit them. captain Mollie Peirick and for­No matter how fast or how Last night was one of those ward Kari Hutchinson. 




Insight • 
confident the Irish, or how times. The Irish have 6-foot-5 continued from page 20 many all-Americans the team "I think Connecticut showed freshman sensation Ruth Riley, 
boasts, it remained like a why it is the No. 2 team in the but the Huskies have 6-foot-5 lot of games. I hate to be the defenseless fly, and was country," Irish head coach freshman sensation Kelley kind of coach who sits here snatched up by Connecticut for Muffet McGraw said last night. Schumacher waiting in the and gives you their record, but lunch. Deep down, though, she wings behind Sauer. I think a lot of people forget On occasion, the UConn igua­must have been wondering if Notre Dame went to the final that we are 30-2." na would draw the Irish in, her team will ever get the four last year, a major attrac­
Still, for one moment, the letting it think it had a chance chance to reverse the roles. tion to young recruits, but Irish hoped that the UConn to escaped unscathed, or even Will the Irish ever be strong Connecticut has the trophies. iguana would stay in the shad­outsmart it, and fly away with enough to outmuscle and out­So the Irish are left search­ows and shrivel up without its victory. Such is the case as in smart the Huskies? And will ing and dreaming of what it tail. No chance. the Feb. 24, 1996, game in the Huskies ever be weak will take to escape the jaws of 
"I know they all doubted that which the Irish only lost to the enough that they just do not Connecticut and fly away hav­we could play without Huskies by six; or the March 4 have the strength to regrow ing beaten the Huskies at their Nykesha, and we just wanted game in last year's finals of their tail? own game. to show that we can," Huskies the Big East tournament, in The Irish are a young team, But for now, they remain a guard Rita Williams said after which Notre Dame only lost by graduating only two seniors, countless victim of the big the rout of the Irish. nine. but unfortunately, so are the Connecticut iguana. As the 
Well, they showed the Irish. But most of the time, UConn Huskies. Granted, Connecticut Huskies stand at 30-2, at least And they did it for the eighth wastes no time, putting the will graduate Sales and the Irish know they are not Irish out of their misery before Williams, but the Irish will lose alone. 

as usual, posting a 6-3, 6-2 Sachire said after his seventh it. After a cumbersome first-set His lack of consistent execution 
defeat of scrappy Mark win this season. "I didn't give win in a tie-breaker, Patterson cost him the match, 6-7, 7-6, 2­
Loughrin. The sophomore was him an opening." ignited the courts at the No. 3 6. 

M. Tennis 
continued from page 20 able to pass effectively, forcing The most comforting win for position in the second set. "He's close to a break­Loughrin to play from the base­the Irish had to be at the No. 2 Dousing Thomsen's pace with a through," Bayliss said of line-up, it was the top one line and ultimately break down position where Pietrowski powerful backhand, Patterson Horsley, who is now 1-1 on the through four spots that proved the Badger's game plan. played his most solid match of triumphed, 7-5, 6-1. season after recently healing top-notch. "I had to nullify his athleti­the season. After Rothschild's win in from a wrist injury. "It's not a 
Sachire, at No. 1, dominated cism and play through him," When the drowsy Chang three sets, the match was weakness; it's a matter of tim­yelled at himself to "wake up," already clinched for the Irish as ing. He's close to being able to Pietrowski took the opportunity Eric Enloe and Horsley were do damage." 
The Saint Mary's College 
to put the match to bed. unable to execute. But until the end of the line­
With tremendous serves and As a storm ensued outside, up becomes a wrecking ball, hustling after the short balls, indoors Wisconsin poured down the bottom positions are up for 
ACCELERATED PROGRAM IN NURSING 
for women with abaccalaureate degree as of May 1998 in 
Pietrowski jumped out to an on Notre Dame's No. 5 and 6 grabs. In addition to Enloe,
any major other than Nursing 
early lead. The senior did not positions. Horsley, and Warford, Freeman look back as he climbed to a 6-Enloe forced his match to and Matt Daly have put their
•Earn aB.S. degree in Nursing in 13 months 
3, 6-2 deletion of Chang for his three sets, playing a strong names in contention for starting 
•Program begins May 26, 1998 
second singles victory of the middle set but lacking on the jobs. season. ends. The long-haired Reist of "We can and need more pro­"I know I'm playing better," Wisconsin endured to put down ductivity at the end of the line­
fli 
the California native said. "I Enloe, 6-2, 4-6, 6-3. up," Bayliss said. "Each one has
SAINT 
really went out for shots and Matt Horsley, taking the place only one or two things holding 
didn't hold back. I feel I held of Andy Warford, put in his fair him back." COLLEGE 
MARY'S 
him back pretty well." share of overtime losing and At the final home match 
NOTRE DAME, IN 
The Irish also harnessed winning tie-breakers in the first Wednesday, the No. 23 Irish For more informafion, please contort the Admission Office at (219)284-4587. 
Wisconsin's John Thomsen, and second sets, respectively. are hoping to come out unbri­FAX (219)284-4716 •http://www.sointmorys.edu 
with Patterson proving the Although he was able to set dled against Michigan State E-Mail: odmission@sointmorys.edu 
extra hours he put in before up his points, Horsley could not before hitting the road for the 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
• 
• fOOTBALL 


Borbely joins ranks as offensive coach 
Special to The Observer 
Dave Borbely. offtmsive line coach at Stanford the last three years, has joined the University of Notre Dame football coaching staff 
as Irish offensive I I n e coach. 
The hir­ing of Borbely allows I r i s h 

offensive Borbely coordina­tor Jim Colletto to concen­trate his attention on that role. Colletto, who coached the Notre Dame offensive line in 1997, will tutor the Irish tight ends beginning in '98. 
In a related step. Irish recruiting coordinator Bob Chmiel moves into an administrative role in the Notre Dame football office. He will continue to direct all administrative aspects of the Irish recruiting process, in addition to handling a wide range of other duties in con­junction with head coach Bob Davie and the Notre Dame football program. 
''I'm excited about these changes because I think they'll help us both on and otT the field and they enable us to fully utilize our per­sonnel.'' says Davie. 
"On the football end, our team obviously will benefit from having an additional full-time coach on the field every day. Dave Borbely has done an outstanding job at Stanford -we witnessed that first-band last fall in Palo Alto -and he'll be a significant addition to what we're doing offensively. 
"Bob Chmiel's focus the last four years has strictly been recruiting, and this will give us the opportunity to utilize his talents in many other areas that will benefit our program. We all are confident that our recruiting program is on a firm foun­dation." 
Borbely joined the Stanford staff in January 1995 and has coached the Cardinal offensive line these last three seasons -helping Stanford earn Liberty and Sun Bowl invitations follow­ing the '95 and '96 cam­paigns. 
In 1997, Borbely's all­underclassman offensive line helped pave the way for veteran running backs Anthony Bookman and Mike Mitchell, who finished third and fourth, respectively,. on the Stanford career rushing list with 2,523 and 2,446 yards. That duo had three straight games early in '97 (including versus the h:ish) in which both players ran for 100 or more yards. 
Prior to his tenure at Stanford, the 38-year-old Borbely coached the offen• slve line for three seasons at Tulane from 1992-94 (he was on the same staff there with current Irish running back coach Desmond Robinson). He also coached that same position area ....... including the standout Tre Johnson {now with the Washington Redskins), at Temple from 1989-91. He was offensive line coach at Rice from 1986-89 where he coached all-star center Courtney Hall, now with the San Diego Chargers. He worked on the same staff at Rice as Tyrone Willingham, Borbely's boss as Stanford head coach the last three seasons. 
A graduate assistant at Evansville in 1981·82, be was as assistant offensive line coach at Pennsylvania in 1983, then was a gradu­ate assistant offensive line coach at Tennessee in 1984­85. 


• BASEBAll 



Irish sparkle at Diamond Classic 
Special to The Observer 
EVANSVIlLE, Ind. 
Senior second baseman Todd Frye gained redemption for a costly eighth-inning error by singling to lead off the bottom of the ninth and scoring the winning run on a single by sophomore leftfielder Jeff Perconte, as Notre Dame emerged with a 6-5 victory over Indiana University in the cham­pionship game of the Diamond Classic, late Sunday night at Bosse Field. 
Notre Dame (6-6} held a 4-0 lead going into the eighth inning but IU scored five unearned runs, after Frye's error on a leadoff grounder by Benji Klause. But Irish junior catcher Jeff Wagner tied the game in the bottom of the eighth with his second home run of the game, setting the stage for Frye and Perconte's big ninth-inning hits. 

Notre Dame's Aaron Heilman (2-0) bailed out fellow fresh­man righthander Danny Tamayo, who allowed the five unearned runs on two hits and three walks, with two strike­outs. Heilman allowed two walks but no runs in the ninth, after striking out two IU bat­ters. Sophomore lefthander Tim Kalita had no decision after tossing five shutout innings, with four hits, four walks and five strikeouts. 
Notre Dame's Aaron Heilman (2-0} bailed out fellow fresh­man righthander Danny Tamayo, who allowed five runs (three earned) on two hits and three walk, with two strikeouts. Heilman allowed two walks but no runs in the ninth, after strik­ing out two lU batters. Sophomore lefthander Tim Kalita had no decision after tossing five shutout innings, with four hits, four walks and five strikeouts. 
IU senior left-bander Greg 

Schabel 0-1) took the loss al"ter serving up Wagner's home run and Frye's single while sopho­more righthander Tom Willerer gave up Perconte's game-win­ning hit to left field. Sophomore righthander Chris Wilson pitched the first four and one­third innings, allowing three runs on five hits and two walks before yielding to junior righthander Jason Torres, who pitched through the seventh while totaling five K's and allowing one run on two hits. 
Perconte opened the game with a single and senior short­stop J.J. Brock grounded into a fielder's choice before Wagner stroked a one-out, two-run shot to left field. The Irish added a third run in the fifth, after a leadoff single from senior first baseman Dan Leatherman, a sacrifice bunt by Perconte and Brock's RBI double down the leftfield line. 
Leatherman gave the Irish a 4-0 lead in the seventh with his third home run of the season, a one-out solo shot to right-cen­ter field. 
Clause reached to open the eighth, after Frye's fielding error, and moved up on a groundout by Mike Spisak. 
Brandt Childs then walked, fol­lowed by an HBI single from Doug DeVore and Roger Rodeheaver's run-scoring field­er's choice. Pinch-hitter Dan Haegele then drew a two-out walk and Tamayo hit Frank O'Connell with a pitch before Jason Williams walked with the bases loaded, cutting the Irish lead to 4-3. 
Sam Incandela's two-run sin­gle to center field pushed IU into the lead but Williams was thrown out trying to rr,aeh third base by junior cr,nter fielder Allen Greene, ending the rally. 
Wagnr,r tied the game in the bottom of the eighth with his fourth home run of the season and third of the Diamond Classic, a leadoff. two-strike blast over the opposite-field fence in right. It was the 31st home run of Wagnr,r's career and marked his sixth career game with two home runs. 
Frye led off the bottom of the ninth with a single to left (on an 0-2 count} and moved up on n sacrifice bunt from junio. pinch-hitter Mike Knecht, end· ing Schabel's brief six-batte1 stint. Perconte then ended the game with his third hit of the game, a single to leftfield. 

ATTENTION ALL STUDENTS 
interested in the Rhodes and Marshall Scholarships 
Professor Walter F. Pratt, Jr. will have a meeting to inform you of deadline dates and the Fall application process on 
Thesday, March 3, 1998 
6:00p.m. 


101 Law School 

If you are unable to attend this meeting, a sheet of information may be obtained in 1 02-B 0'Shaughnessy Hall after the meeting date. 
Tuesday, March 3, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM MIKE PETERS 
SCOIT ADAMS 

IS IT A 5AO SIGN IF 
'<OU SPEND THE OA.'( 
WONDERING WHY TI-\ERE 
1\RE NO LAWS AGAIN5T 
INTERFro.CE. 
[]) 


~ 
~ ~~L-~~~------------~ 
CROSSWORD 

ACROSS 29 Body parts 45 Starts of shaped lrke tourneys
1 Procter & punchrng bags 47 Last course
Gamble bar JOWW II 48 Peres's
6 Natrve Alaskan Phrlrpprne battle predecessor11 Sporl 
srte 49 .. ---That a 14 Mrdwest arrport Shame"
Jt Horse rnahub 
harness race 50 Eggs 15 Sergeant at 51 "Come on I"
32 1924 Ferber 
TV's Fort Baxter 
58 canto 16 Diamonds (srnging style) novel 
JJ Little newt 11 Place to place a 59 Characteristic 
J61t's NNW of 
wallet or 60 Confuse
Oklahoma Crty
joint 38 Nrcholas I or II. 62 Steinbeck 
19--NaNa 
20 Thanksgiving e.g migrantsmeat request 39 Mule of song 63 Dapper
21 "Entry of Christ Into Brussels" 
40 Nash's two-1 parnter James 
beast 
DOWN 
41 Hardly elegant 1 -a plea 23 Scott Adams's 
put-upon 42 Easy 2 "Now I seer"
comics hero two-pornters J Beatnik's
27 Nautical spar 44 Concert halls 
exclamatron 4 Skill 5 Sweetheart's
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
assent 

~ 
~ 




Knockoul~orkoul 
~/W 3/16-4/29 
T /Th 3/ li-4/ 30 
$20
-
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75q; per minute) 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years 1-888-7 -ACROSS 
• 
• •


6:20-2':20 •• 4:00-5:15 • 
ign-up~ begin Wedne~day, 3/4, 3:00am: 
•

at l!ec~port~ located in the I!~I!C! • 1-5965 for more info. ••• 
•
•
• 


YOUR HOROSCOPE 
IIAI'I'Y BIRTHDAY! IN TilE NEXT \'E,\R OF YOliR LIFE: 

Trust yuur innc.:r \'ision and take th..: 
lead ;11 \\tor~ Buildin~ a ~Iron!.! 
financial ha~c will he ~asicr tlla~l 
you thin". Hold action will help yuu 
atlract new client~ or l~unJing. Sum­llll'T hrin2.~ thrilling trends and tr;l\ 

cl. If po~'ihlc. va2ation ncar "aler 
A 1\lllg-sought reconciliation j.., rca­
lured next faiL A December wed­
ding. ha~ LCrtain advantages. Get in 
touch with a childhood friend. You 
have e\'en more in common flO\\ 
than way hack then. 
CELEBRITIES BOHN ON THIS DAY: singer Harry Bclafornc. actress Catherine Bach. novel i'l Judith Rossner. band great Glenn Miller. 
ARIES (March 21-April I'}): l'ul your faith in a higher power and \'(JLI will never feel alone. A friend V.·ho shares your taste in song or dance j, the best companion this weekend. 
TAURUS (April 20-May 201 
Your loved ones are in your corner. 
Any doubts "ill evaporate once you 
get the true picture of a conf"usill!.! 
situation. Do what will help rh~ greatesl number of people nccdin~ 
assistance. ... 
GEMINI tMay 21-June 20J: An 
idea that seems to have merit should 
be investigated further. However. 
hack off if 1·ou encounter deter­
mined resistance. Keep spending on 
a modest scale. 
CANCER (June 21-Jul\ 221: A down-to-earth altitude is vitill. Avoid going to extremes. Good humor and a cheeti"ul demeanor are contagious. Romance could he a totally differenr story with a new partner. 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 221 .-hoid 
making assumptions; a wrong gues~ 
could prove disastrous' Lcarnin2 more about computers will increa.,~ your earning potentiaL Enroll in an 
L'\l.:IIJIH.! Ol \\CCI-.l.'ll<l da\\. 
\ li{<;o rl\ug 21-Sepr 221 
Mel.'IIIH!. ..,OIIIl'lllll.' \\ho ~hare.., \OUI \aluc\ ..!..!1\l'~ vuu a lift. Be ct\l:clul not to t~u·n in.tu a chatterbox. Y11Lil in\flnch arc c>.cclknt: put 111on.· faith Ill vuur hunchc.... 
LllliU iSepl 2"\-0LI 221 You and vnur malL' need to social IlL \\ith lllhei· couples. Why not lry ballroom 
ur lllll' dancing'.' Rcfu~e to ai\(H\ -....nmcnrn:·"i irritahility \o roc\.. the 
love hoat. 
S< 'ORI'IO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21 ): A fncnd or family member needs your krnd words or reassurance. L"rcn sympalhctically. hut guard your financial resources. You cannol afford 10 hail out everyone who cncounrcrs difficulties. 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec 21 ): II pays to talk out your drllcr­encc., wirh a friend <>r neighhor. Har­mon) can he restored if you admil a mistake. Continue lo look on rhc hright side' He generous with vour mate·, relatives. ­
CAPRICORN rDec. 22-Jan 
19 ): Tr) not 10 get trapped on rhe 
:-.<a::ial merry-go-round. Spcnd1ng "iOillC t11nc alone will recharge your hattcries. Pent-up eJH!rgy i~ hc\t 
relea,cd through athletic activit\ 
lrl\'ile a friend to join you. · 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-l:'ch. IXi Bring out the mop and broom and make your home sparkle. Lclling vour mate take the lead in romance l'ould make both of you happier. 1r) not 10 sound critical of your loved ones· efforts. 
PISCES (Feb 19-March 201: A 
husy schedule is fine so long as you 
sci aside time for reflection. A lol'c 
relationship is vulnerable to di,cord 
C'urh your temper in the face ot 
miiHlr in·itation~. 



Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
/ltott. 3/16-4/27 C:Zhu.ts. 3/19-4/23 s:3Q-6:3o $20 

Wed. 3/18-4/29 

& Cancel. as a 
launch 1 Drub s Lodge member 9 Luau instrument 
10 Alternative to a 
purse 11 Err on stage 12 Cause for 
blessing? 13 Get ready for 
battle again 18 Average figures 22 Org. for Bu!ls 
and Bullets 23 Fools 24 Ex-Mrs. Trump 

25 Four-time Emmy-winning comedienne 
26 Ran. as colors 27 --the Hull. of 
"Star Wars" 28 Medical suffix JO Certain mikes 32 Knee hits 34 Mountebank 35 Lovers' 
engagement 37 Rather morose JB Suns 40 Deceiving 41 Nuclear treaty 
subject 43 "The Greatest" 44 --cava (path 

to the heart) 45 Explore 46 "Bolero" 
composer 47 They're losing propositions 
49 French friend 52 Bother 53--tar (drrnk) 54 Nutritional abbr. 55 NYC. summer 
clock setting 56 Model Carol 57 Lock opener 

5;30-6:20 O'l 6:30-7:20 $20 
Sign-ups are TODAY For more Info. Contact: 
Re:cSports -l-r61QO


@RecSports 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 

.... 
-~ 

i 
I 
I 
j 








SPORTS 
page 20 Tuesday, March 3, 1998 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll Huskies' ferocious offense devours Irish Notre Dame likely to earn NCAA bid By BRIAN KESSLER Sports Writer PISCATAWAY, NJ For the past two sea­sons, the Notre Dame women's basketball team has seen its Big "They proved why they Irish, who average justEast Tournament title are the number two over 20 turnovers perhopes dashed by team in the country," game, committed an Connecticut. Last night commented head coach uncharacteristic 21 was no different as the Muffet McGraw. "They turnovers in the first top-seeded II uskies ( 30­play well as a team and half, and found them­2), ranked second in the that's how you win selves down 17-2 five­country, continued their games." and-a-half minutes into dominanee over Notre Notre Dame had a lot the game. Damn (20-9), handing of confidence heading "Their quick start was the fifth-seeded Irish a into the game with really a mental blow to B-5] loss in the semifi­UConn, who was without our confidence," said nals of this year's Big Big East player of the McGraw. "We never East championship. year Nykesha Sales. The see IRISH/ page 16 • IRISH INSIGHT UConn sdepth defines resiliency By Betsy Baker Or maybe Paige Sauer and her Associat~ Spons Ediror three blocked shots. The University of Connecticut Any way you look at it, it is womnn's basketball team is like an impossible to stop a .team like iguana. You eut off its tail and it Connecticut. unless they stop them­grows another one. selves. The team's backbone, top scorer Just like the iguana. the Huskies and Big East play(lr of the year eamouflaged themselves with a · Nykesha Sales, got cut off the ros­poor showing against West Virginia ter and Staey Hansmeyer grew in on Monday, winning by only two, hill' place. then came out of the shadows to Hansmeyer's game-high 21 points walk all over the Irish last night. led the lluskies over Notre Dame "Our kids know how to win and · 73-53 in the semifinals of the Big they play to win,~ Connecticut head East championship. · coach Geno Auriemma said of his Or was it Hita Williams and her team. "That is why we have won a six steals that grew in Sales's place. The Observer/Joe Starl< see INSIGHT/ page 17 Freshman· center Kelley Siemon (50) was held to an uncharacteristic six points by the Huskies .  

• MEN's TENNIS 
Notre Dame sends Badgers burrowing for home 

The Observer/Joe Stark 

Junior Brian Patterson's extra effort helped the Irish surge to a 5-2 win over Wisconsin. 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Spom Writer 

lie does not want t(> be called pnr­fect. Nevertheless, Danny Rothsehild may become the poster boy for quali­ty after recording his ninth singles win Saturday to remain undefeated on the season. 
Hothschild, the eaptain of the men's tennis team, eontributcd his win over Jeff Malik to the 5-2 vietory" over Wisconsin, advaneing the Irish to 7-2. 
"Malik was a tough mateh-up," eoach Bob Bayliss said. "lie likes to play with pace,. but [Hothsehidl likes to hit the ball hard. He's been our strongest position." 
In a ehallenging mateh, Hothsehild flexed his strength to overeome Malik's effieient passing 6-4, 4-6, 6-2. 
"I played well in spurts," said Rothschild. "He was passing well so I was falling on my head a lot, diving afte.~ balls. But I still need to get bet­ter. 
Maybe he'll find the plaee for improvement in doubles, where his usual excellenee with Vijay Freeman was lacking as the pair lost their first mateh. 
However, the other two doubles teams fulfilled their roles to earn the Irish the first point of the match. 
Hyan Sachire and Matt ll.orsley solidly defeated Badgers Stefan Heist and Adam Schumacher X-4 whil11 Brian Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski shined at the No. 1 spot. 
The Patterson-l'ietmwski duo won their third straight mateh against David Chang and Mark Loughrin, 8-5. The Irish pair leaped to a 5-0 start, which helped stifle the Wisconsin mini-comeback and signilied a defi­nite turnaround in the :~-3 eombo's play. 
With a 1-0 lead going into singles, the Irish looked like they had lost tho edge at the beginning. But the possi­ble scare for Notre Dame transformed into a pleasurabln success. 
"Early in singles, we were down in a eouple of matches and nven in oth­ers," Bayliss said. "Early on. it was tight." 
But before Wisconsin could acquire even one point, the Irish had already monopolized five points, ensuring vic­tory. 
Although the Irish had depended on strong performances from the bottom 
seeM. TENNIS I page 17 

®M 
at Big East tournament, at Air Force Academy, 
Wednesday, 11 a.m. 
March 7, 1 p.m. 

~ aJ •Baseball captures title at Diamond 
! 
Indoor Track vs. Wisconsin, 
~ Classic

at USA Indoor Championship, 
., 
......
Tomorrow, 2 p.m. 

.. 
Friday, All Day see page 18 
~ 

! 
vs. Michigan State, 
Softball,

., •Irish hire new offensive line coach 
Wednesday, 3:30 p.m. 

vs. Valparaiso, Wednesday, 3:30p.m. 
see page 18 
~ 







