
~-~--~---------------~-----....---------­

Monday, April20, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. '.:.d 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• SECURITY BEAT 
Students aid ND Security after Hesburgh theft 
By KRISTI KUTSCH 
Assistant News Editor 
Two Notre Dame students and a student from Andrews University helped Notre Dame Security/Police apprehended a male thief Saturday after he stole a CD player and wallet from the eighth floor of the IIesburgh Library, according to Philip Johnson, assistant director of security. 
After stealing the CD player and wallet, the 17-year-old thief headed towards the elevator, but was con­fronted by the owner of the objects, a Notre Dame female student. 
The thief sprayed mace in the female's face as she tried to stop him from entering the elevator. She then tried to call for help on the phone outside of the elevator, but the thief ripped the phone cord out of wall 
and escaped in the elev,ator, Johnson "I tried to tackle the guy, but he hit said. ' me. I really wasn't hurt, because I The two 
tried to protect male stu­myself. He real­dents, who ly got me in the witnessed ear," Borgen this, ran said. down the "The guy then stairs in took off run­pursuit of ning east of the thief, campus, by the and caught ROTC building," up with him he continued, on the first "and I chased f I o o r . him a little, Timothy while I was Borgen, a waiting for the Dillon Hall police to show junior, tried to tackle the thief by the up." reflecting pool outside of the Library, Once Notre Dame Security arrived, but was struck in the face by the Borgen got in the car and helped thief. identify and apprehend the thief on 
Palmer Street, east of campus. 
"I was very grateful that the stu­dents could help us by pointing !the thiefl out," Johnson said. 
The female victim of the theft was treated at the scene by the Notre Dame fire department paramedics, and later at the University Health Center. 
"We commend the many people who came to the aid of the victim and assisted in the apprehension of the suspect in this case," Johnson said. 
Following his arrest, the victim was taken to the St. Joseph County Juvenile Facility. 
The thief faces charges of robbery and assault, and the case was passed on to the St. Joseph County prosecu­tor for further action, according to Johnson. 

SMC names Schmuhl as first executive-in-residence 
By JULIE WALL 
News Writer 
In order to provide business students with a 
link between the classroom and current world 
affairs, the Saint Mary's Business 
Administration and Economics Department 
recently established its first Executive-in­
Residence Program. 
The program will bring a 
new business executive to the 
department staff to serve the 
students for one semester of 
each school year. The first 
executive-in-residence is 
William Schmuhl. 
Schmuhl is a member of the 
Saint Mary's Board of 
Trustees and is also president 
and CEO of Heywood 
Williams. Inc., an Elkhart company that manu­
factures building products. A former business 
professor at Saint Mary's, Schmuhl has prac­
ticed accounting and law in addition to working 
in the business community. 
This semester, Schmuhl has given a variety of 
presentations to students on business-related 
topics. 
"I have talked about industrial marketing in 
the marketing classes, presented cases on ethi­
cal issues to the ethics classes, given some pre­
sentations on economics as it applies to every­
day life in the principles classes and talked 
about business law issues and tax issues that my 
company has faced," Schmuhl said. 
Meeting with faculty and students, attending 
classes and departmental functions and review· 
ing curriculum and course offerings are among 
other activities Schmuhl has facilitated this 
semester. 
Although the curriculum review is not .yet 
complete, Schmuhl says that the pr(lsent.cur· 
riculum ''generally seems very up-to"date with 
the current business world." 
"I've met with small groups of students infor­

mally," he said. "As it turns out, the students 
and I ended up talking a great deal about the 
curriculum, the present technological concerns 
of the college and about job opportunities." 
Other topics of discussion have included 

resumes. interviewing and career planning. 
Schmuhl also brought an accounting class to 
his company's plant last month for a visit. 
"By touring the factory, we were able to get a 

real look at the manufacturing process and 
relate that to the accounting for manufacturing 
concepts that we are studying in class," said 
sophomore Marie Wartinbee, a business major 
who participated in the tour. 
Row,: row, row your boat ... 
T
be Fisher Hall Regatta was held last Saturday on St. Mary's lake. Twenty boats 
entered the race, including 
dorms ard a team from the 
American Society for 
Mechanical Engineers. 
Awards were given to three boats: Alvmni Hall won the race in the mer's division, Pangborn Hall won in the women's division and Lewif Hall won the award for the most original boat. 
In additioh to the race, Fisher Hall sponsored a dunk tank, which fea1ured Notre Dame per­sonalities. After the Regatta, Fisher Hall held an outdoor SYR in conjunction with Pangborn. 
Photos by The Observer/Joe Stark 


-------------~~----~-----------------------­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Save son1e face 
For almost six years I participated in an act that brings about a disease that has never been defeated. This disease is a killer, yet I never both­nred to learn about it. Like most, I learnnd about it when I had to. 
For a long time, I imagined that oral can­cer was somehow a less­thrnatening form of can­cer than others. If noth­ing l)lse, I was suw there was treatment. 
When I went to the doetor a few weeks ago with a bump on my lip, I knew nothing about oral cancer. When the word "tumor" was first uttnred in the examination room, my immedi­atn reaction was, "If this is cancer, I can beat this." 
There was no doubt in my mind. Radiation. chemo, surgery-somehow I would beat it. With some steel worker's-grandson toughness, I would come out OK. 
As these things flew through my mind. I asked what the treatment was for oral cancer. 
If you chew and are in denial about what it can do to you, try the rest of this column on for sizn. 
Imagine how I felt, knowing I just had a tobacco-related tumor removed, to learn that ehemo and radiation cannot treat oral cancer. I don't understand why, but they simply cannot. 
In my mind, that left one option: surgery. Not liking that idea, I asked if I could have option 
(d). 
But there is no option (d). 
After some medical-profession babble trying to 1:alm me about something for which there is no calming, I decided I wanted a straight answer. 
Being a plain-speaking city boy, I asked the quostion to which I wantod no answer: "So what you're telling me is that you cut off pieces of my face until I die?" Silence. Then nodding, and some more doc­
tor-speak. "Which will be how soon?" No one could answer. But I understand that 
be1:ause of the proximity to the major nerve centers of the brain the numbers dictate I would be very lucky to reach 31. 
I then got to spend a week waiting to see whether or not the odds were with me that I would live to be 30, whether I could have my face -my whole face -to 23 or 24. 
I am 21 years old. I invested too much time into delayed gratification (such as this educa­tion) to not reap the benefits. I have learned too much about kids to not get the chance to raise some of my own. 
This is just some of what goes through your head when you are 21 and staring gradual death in the face-one for which you can blame no one but yourself. 
It turns out that if I behave myself' and do not chew tobacco anymore -one day at a time, for tho rnst of my life -I may have the privi­lege of someday bouncing my children, nieces or nephews on my knee. 
My tumor was benign. 
If you have a tin of dip or a pouch of chew in your pockot and you choose to put some in today, you will contract cancer. It is only a matter of time. And when you do, surgeons will cut oil' pieces of your face until your rapidly aceelnrat1)d death arrives. 
If you don't like the sound of that, put it in whatever parlance you'd like, but the fact remains: 
They will cut oil' pieces of your face until your 
rapidly accelerated death arrives. I am lucky. I will not tempt fate anymore. Can you learn from me, or do you need to 
learn for yourself? 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


• TooAY's STAFF 
News Scene Krisri Klirsch Mike Vanegas Christopher Shipley Graphics Finn Pressly Tom Roland Sports Production Bill Hart Dan Cichalski Viewpoint Lab Tech Spencer Stefko Liz Lang 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of chc Associared Press. All reproducrion righrs arc reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, April 20, 1998 
r---~"~"""';z. , r-l' • 


\~ 1\vp-utstde the Dome 
.........."'""'-,~........ .1..-.,i"'"'"-'"'~ 
· \_{ •., Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Judge dismisses privacy lawsuit against Princeton 

PRINCETON, N.J. 
A federal judge in Hartford, Conn., dismissed charges on Thursday filed by a former undergraduate against the university for warning medical schools of doubts it had regarding the truthful­ness of his applications. 
Rommel Nobay, who graduated in 1989, brought the suit against the uni­versity for breach of contract, invasion of privacy and character defamation in 1995. lie claims the university had no right to disclose to Tufts, Georgetown and Dartmouth medical schools that he had lied about his race, among other things, on his applications. After hear­ing the university's concerns, these schools revoked their offers of admis­sion. 
"Simply put, it's not outrageous to tell truthful statements about someone's tHness to practice medicine to those who have a need to know," District Judge Dominic Squatrito said, accord­ing to an Associated Press report. 
• BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY 
Students protest Busch's Olympic tie 
PROVO, Utah 
BYU students presented a petition Friday protesting the Anheuser-Busch sponsorship for the 2002 Winter Olympics. A handful of BYU students presented the petition to the Salt Lake Organizing Committee in front of the SLOC headquar­ters. Although the SLOC has already decided to keep the sponsorship from Anheuser-Busch, the company that pro­duces Budweiser beer, students hope the petition will cre­ate an awareness and interest in the issue. Nicole Christensen. a sophomore International Law and Diplomacy major, spear-headed the independent petition. Over 2,400 signatures were collected in two weeks, Christensen said. "This sponsorship undermines and degrades the very spirit of the Olympic games," Christensen said. The main goal of the petition is to raise awareness around the state and cam­pus about whether or not the beer sponsorship is appropri­ate, Christensen said. Students, faculty and families in the community were all involved in signing the petition. 
• CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY-SACRAMENTO 
Microsoft pulls out of technology deal 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. 
Two of four high-tech giants are no longer partners in the unprecedented, $365 million deal to upgrade the California State University system's technological infrastructure. Microsoft and Hughes will not be partners in tho California Education Technology Initiative because financial arrange­ments could not be worked out, CSU Chancellor Charles Reed said Thursday. Reed confirmed what many student and faculty groups had been predicting for months: that Microsoft Corp., under investigation by the U.S. Department of Justice for alleged antitrust violations, would either pull or be kicked out. However, CSU spokesman Ken Swisher denied Microsoft's current image problem as a reason for Microsoft's removal. "There were different factors," Swisher said. Swisher asserted CSU is still working with Microsoft on an "appropriate" relationship. "We will contin­ue to work together on other projects, and remain commit­ted to providing the best technology and thinking," said Microsoft spokeswoman Joelle McGinnis. 
• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<B>forecast for noon, Monday, April 20. 
Lines.separate high lemperature zones tor the day. 
.... : 

:H L 

Monday ~61 44 Tuesd~y ~' 57 39 Wednesday ~ ·58 38 
FRONTS: 
.............................................
Thursday {)-(63 41 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWealher, Inc. 

Pressure 
H L
Friday ", ~ 69 41 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
)'~·...._._,,;# "'..~"' 
VI.! ASSOC/8/fld Press 
~ 

Atlanta 72 49 Dallas 76 54 Miami 85 75 Baltimore 64 50 Denver 56 31 New York 61 50 Boston 57 50 Honolulu 83 68 Phoenix 92 61
4,~,~Q.QQ 1.)-~ u 
Chicago 64 42 Houston 79 52 Seattle 63 42
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow IC8 Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Columbus 63 42 Los Angelus 85 54 St. Louis 66 47
Via Assoctal8d Press GraphicsNst 
According to an article in the April 15 issue of "The Hartford Courant," the university informed the medical schools that Nobay lied about his class rank in high school, his scores on the SATs and his race on his medical school applications. Nobay contends that the university has an unwritten contract with its students to provide "accurate but positive recommenda­tions" to professional schools. 
Testimony began Monday and cross­examination began Tuesday, university counsel Peter McDonough said. During questioning, lead counsel for the uni­
• COLORADO STATE UNIVERSITY 
Football player faces assault charges 
FT. COLLINS, Colo. 

Charges are still pending against one Colorado State University football player and one ex-player who were arrested early Wednesday morning in Denver after they allegedly yelled racial slurs and assaulted a cab driver. The two men, along with two other CSU students, were in downtown Denver and hailed a cab about 2:30 a.m. to take them to the Radisson Hotel in Englewood, said Denver Police Detective Virginia Lopez. After a series of alleged racial slurs, the cab driver Gebrese Lassie Zemariame. an Ethiopian immigrant, pulled over and asked the group to prepay for their ride, Lopez said. The two men allegedly pulled the driver out of the car and began punching him. After hitting Zemariame, the two ran away and were caught by police officers where they were taken into cus­tody and held for assault and ethnic intimidation, Lopez said. Both have been releasod on $2,500 bond, said an olli­cial with the Denver County Jail. "They were all so drunk," Zemariame told reporters later. 
• UNiVERSITY OF FLORIDA Jury finds Blue Key defamed grad 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 

ln a move that dealt a heavy and expensive blow to UF's most prestigious leadership honorary, a jury l'ound Thursday that student body president-elect John McGovern and Florida Blue Key defamed a UF graduate student by making him look like a child molester. McGovern and UF's oldest leadership honorary which touts a list ol' imprnssive alumni including Gov. Lawton Chiles, Lt. Gov. Buddy MacKay and senators Bob Graham and Connitl Mack will have to pay self-described "political activist" Charles Grapski $250,000 in damages plus attorney fees. Blue Key plans to appeal the verdict, which comes one week bnfore McGovern is scheduled to take office. "I can't describn how I feel right now," said an elated Grapski, who aeeusml Blue Key and two of its members, McGovern and 42-year-old Peter Vlcek of doctoring his criminal record to inelude sex­ual molestation charges and later posting it on fliers throughout campus before the 1995 spring student body elections. 
versity, Frank Silvestri, exposed the multitude of lies Nobay told. 
According to the Courant article, Silvestri began his examination with the question, "Mr. Nobay, is it true, sir, or is is not, that you are a liar?" Nobay replied, "I have lied." 
"The cross-examination was devas­tating to him," McDonough said. "lie admitted repeatedly that he has lied during various phases of his applica­tion process. He admitted numerous untruths in connection with submis­sions at Princeton, including his appli­cation to the Woodrow Wilson School, in which he not only stated things untrue about his background but lied about his actual grades." 
The article also states that Jane Sharaf, the university's health profes­sions advisor at the time, initiated the investigation into Nobay's record "allnr noticing that he described himself as a black student on his medical school applications." 
Monday, April 20, 1998 Tht Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Panel discusses role pf women in sports marketing 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
In an effort to highlight the role of women in sports marketing, two women with experience in that field gave a presentation during the sports marketing symposium on Friday. 
Addressing issues such as resume building, networking and the chang­ing roles of women in athletics, the panel emphasized the variety of opportunities open to women in sports marketing. 
Simply having a degree from Notre Dame is a good start to any career, according to Theresa Kelly, a 1990 Notre Dame graduate who is now an assistant director for sports informa­tion at Wake Forest University. 
"Your resume will attract future employers just because you can put Notre Dame next to 'education,"' she said. "You are at a school with a national reputation and that's a good thing. That's not a detriment to you at all. But you are going to need some­thing to back it up." 
According to Kelly, tliat something should come from a strbng record of volunteer work with athletic charities and extracurricular adivities during college. Kelly, who worked for four 
"Many people who get their start at a small school love that atmosphere so much that they never leave. Sometimes you find the perfect fit at a place you've never heard of," she 
'youR REsUME WIY. ATIRACT FUTURE EMPLOYERS JUST BECAUSE YOU 
CAN PUT NoTRE DAME NEXT TO "EDUCATION." You ARE AT A SCHOOL WITH A NATIO~L REPUTATION AND THAT'S A GOOD THING. 8UT YOU ARE GOING TO NE£b SOMETHING TO BACK IT UP.' 
'i 

THERESA KELLY ASSISTANT DIREfTOR FOR SPORTS INFORMATION AT WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY 
years in the sports depa~tment of The Observer, credits that ~xperience to helping secure her curJlent position. She emphasized the ioilportance of good writing and desigh for promo­tional materials in her filjlld. 
"The whole world nee«s good writ­ers," she said. "Sometimes that's the only way to get your mesl'age across." 
After college, Kelly feels that people 

need to be 
!illing to start small. e.ven if that q~eans taking ajob with a rielatively unknown ath­letic program at the colle­~ate level. 
said. 

At the professional level, Kelly warned against becoming a "sports snob." 
She emphasized that less popular sports need good marketing and often provide great opportunities for people just breaking into the field. 
"If you do a good job selling tennis, you'll eventually get to sell basket­ball," she said. 
Kelly pointed out that as the field of sports marketing continues to devel­op, people entering the field need to realize that selling sports is really about selling entertainment. 
"Entertainment is exactly what col­lege athletics is to Joe and Jane Ticketbuyer. If you are the one buying the ticket, it's entertainment you are looking for. There are hundreds of methods of entertainment out there and that's what you'll be compr.ting with," she said. 
Julie Shoemaker, currently vice president of Robinson/Maites, agreed with Kelly on this point and spoke of the fight for the entertainment dollar. 
"Over the last couple of decades, sports has slowly been categorized in the entertainment industry. This has contributed to the explosion of oppor­tunities in sports marketing, especial­ly for women," Shoemaker said. 
Shoemaker, who spent eight years as vice president of marketing for the NBA, also credits the increased popu­larity of women's athletics with the new opportunities in her field. She used the all women's sailing team America 3 as an example. 
"They actually helped create a whole new audience for that sport. Their marketing program was a run­away success," Shoemaker said. 
Shoemaker cited statistics about women participating in athletics, watching athletics and purchasing sportswear to demonstrate the dra­matic shift away from male domi­nance of the athletic market in the last 20 years. 
As she explained, this shift is evi­dent in everything from new apparel lines made specifically for women to a program by the NFL called NFL 101, designed to help interested women become educated football spectators. 
Notre Dame's Marketing Club was responsible for coordinating Friday's symposium. 



The University Committee on Cultijral Diversity will sponsor a listening session with Professor Nathan Hatch tomorrow night, Tuesday, April 21, from 7:30 to 9 p.~m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Professor Hatch will offer a 15-minhte reflection on issues related to multicultural chilllenges and concerns at Notre Dame. After Professor Hatch's comments, those in attendance will be invited to share their comments and concerns with him. 
I 

Refreshments will be served. 
~----~-­

.-~~-----.--------------------------------~-----------~----------------------­
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 20, 1998 
igot Center to open next year Celebrating culture ... 

Spt'Cial to The Observer 
The Universitv of Notre Drune 
announced last Thursday a $2 
million gift from alumnus Gtu·y 
Gigot, partner and senior vice 
president for worldwide prod­
urts lbr the Seattle-based soft­
ware firm ViSio Corp., to fund a 
new center for the study of 
entrepreneurship in the 
University's f.ollege of Business 
Administration. 
The Gigot Center for 
Entrepmneurial Studies will be 
in place for the opening of the 
1998-1999 academic year. 
··we deeply appreciate the 
tremendous genurosity and 
vision that Gary Gigot has 
shown in supporting the study 
of' cntr(~preneurship in our 
College of Business 
Administration." said University 
president Father Edward 
Malloy, in announcing the gift. 
''I am confidf:'nt the Gigot 
Conter for Entrepreneurial 
Studies will provide Notre Dame 
students with the expertise nec­
essary to turn great ideas into 
oven greater realities," he said. 
Carolyn Woo. the Martin J. 

Gillen Dean of the College of . Business Administration and the Haymond and Milann Siegfrind Chair in EntrnprtmPurial Studies, added: "The entt·cprl.'ncurial spirit is rel1ected in the support. irnpe­tus and leadership that Gary Gigot has dr.monstrated in mak­ing this new center possible. We in the college are deeply grate­
ful." 
Gigot, a 1972 graduate of 
Notre Dame with a bachelor's 
dPgree in marketing, said: "My 
entire expericnco at Notre 
Dame providt>d me with the fun­
damentals of my entrepreneur­
ial roots. Notro Dame is 
international in scope; it dis­
plays great vision; it has a 
strong, nurturing alumni net­
work; it is powerfully academic, 
athletic. ethical and family sym­bol; and its leadership has shown great skill at changing Notre Dame for the future while retaining the core traditions of il'> past." 

"Most importantly," Gigot said, "Notre Dame has a quiet tradition of accomplished grad­uates who have demonstrated entrepreneurial zeal in building l£unily business, major corpora­tions and new public compa­nies. I am confident this new center will create a 'sense of the possible' for a broader spec­trum of Notre Drune undeq,rrad­uate and graduate students for yt~ars to come." 
The center i'> intended to pro­vide Notre Dame students with skills that will enable them, as either individual or corporate entrepreneurs, to convert ideas into market possibilities. The curriculum will include two core courses, an elective and the development of business plans. 
The first core course will pro­vide a general overview of the entrepreneurial process, includ­ing search methods for new venture ideas, assembly of the venture, venture evaluation, market and financial challenges ru1d small business regulations. Students also will work in teams to develop a new product and marknt assessment report ior a venture concept of their choice. 
The second core cours(l will address issues such as competi­tive strategy and marketing position, fmancial analysis, capi­tal formation. ownership struc­tures, producing and selling and organizational structure and systems for managing. 
Students also will complete the development of the business plan for the concept initiated in the first eourse. A.;; an alterna­tive to the development of a business plan for a venture con­cept, students will be able to work through Notre Dame's Center for Social Concerns to provide assistance to start-up 
MAKE YOUR DESTINATION .. UNION STATION! 

233-2876 
WEDDING RECEPTIONS GRADUATION PARTIE'S REHEARSAL DINN~RSBANQUET DINNERS
t:_' 
DANCES  CLASS REUNIONS  
Great  pateS , ·\able·  Ca;; '­tiifc JOr  
·ll ;.-vatstt  ~'t-lf!!!!!!:...!!!!ll!/1#~  or!Jzatio/Jl·  

FEND!  ARJl!ANI  CUCCI  
DOLCE E GABBANA  FERRARI  
VERSACE  AlASERATI  LAMBORGHINJ  

Ifyou like elegant design, you already speak our language!! 
Summer Classes in Italian 9 credits in 6 1/2 weeks! 
ROIT 101 June 6 -July 7 
ROIT 102 July 8-July 21 
ROJT 103 July 22 -August 5 
Fulfills Arts and Letters Language requirement!! 
For more information, contact Mrs. Mangione at 631-7485 or Summer Session, 631-7282. 
ventures by low-income or minority entreplt'eneurs or those in emerging economies. 
Elective courses in entrepre­neurial studies will focus on top­ics such as venture capital and private equity, marketing research for new products and markets, small business regula­tions, family business, technolo­gy applications and managing organizational change. 
A key component of the Gigot center will be the establishment of a venture capital fund that will provide investment for selected start-up projects devel­oped in the two core eourses. Outside proposals may also receive consideration after review tbr quality and compre­hensiveness. 
After receiving his bachelor's degree from Notre Dame, Gigot earned a master's degree in advertising from Michigan State University in 1973. He started a 16-year career in advertising with Leo Burnett in Chicago, then formed a partnership in a regional agency in Madison, Wis., and later joined Ogilvy and Mather Worldwide, first in New York and later in Los Angeles. 
Gigot joint~d Microsoft as director of U.S. marketing in 1990. He was promoted to vice president for marketing in 1991 and oversaw some of the soft­ware company's biggest product launches, including Windows 
3.0 and Windows 3.1. 
Gigot left Microsoft in 1994 to become a primary investor and vice president of marketing for ViSio. Now, as senior vice presi­dent for worldlwide products. he al<>o serves on the lirm's execu­tive committee. 
Gigot's gift is a part of Notre Dame's $767 million ''Generations" fund raising cam­paign, the largest in the history of Catholic higher education and tho sixth largest campaign now under way in American acad­eme. 


HOLY CROSS ASS(JCIATES 
wishes to honor and thank the 



CENTER FOR SOCIAL CONCERNS 
on its 15th anniversary of preaching & practicing the 
!...... 
message of social justice at the University of Notre Dame. Thank you for your fruitful ministry, and best wishes for another 15 years. 
Happy Anniversary! 


Holy Cross Associates PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 1-5521 FAX: 631-6813 E-mail: ND.HCASSOC.l @ND.EDU http://www.nd.edu:80/..-hcassoc/ 

Monday, April 20, 1998 COMPIU'D FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Linda McCartney dies at 56 
LONDON 
Linda McCartney. the American photogra­
pher who brok1~ a gPnnration of teen-age 
girls' hearts when she married Beatie Paul 
McCartney, has died of cancer, her publicist 
said Sunday. She was 56. Linda McCartney 
died Friday while~ on vacation in Santa 
Barbara, Calif., Geoff Baker said. Her hus­
band and children were with her. "The 
blessing was that the end came quickly and 
slw didn't suffer," a statement from Paul 
McCartney's office said. Two days before her 
death. Linda and Paul had been horseback 
riding. one of her main passions, the state­
ment said. The couple announced in 
Dncember 1995, that Linda McCartney, a 
vegntarian who marketed her own meat-free 
dishns. was being treated for breast cancer. 
Air show mishap kills two 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. 
Two single-engine biplanes collided dur­
ing acrobatic manr.uvers at an air show 
Sunday and crashed in flames, killing both 
pilots. The planes fell to the ground in a field 
about 1.000 yards from the nearly 5,000 
spectators, and no one on the ground was 
injured, said Deputy Police Chief Ren Taylor. 
Sean Kelly was taking pictures when the 
planes hit. "I believe the strong wind pushed 
them into each other -it was real windy," 
Kelly said. "When they hit, you could hear 
the loud clap of the wings hitting each 
other," he said. "They got intertwined and 
they couldn't break off. Then they started 
falling very rapidly. There wasn't any fire 
until they hit the ground." 
Crocodile blamed in attack 
BRISBANE, Australia 
A six-foot crocodile has been spotted in a 
storm water drain near a neighborhood 
where a teen-age girl was mauled in 
February, police said Sunday. The crocodile 
was noticed Saturday on the banks of a drain 
running off a creek in Westcourt, a suburb of 
the Queensland city of Cairns, said police 
Sgt. Trevor Crawford. The animal fled into 
the drain after a man threw a rock at it, he 
said. Department of Environment officers 
removed another six-foot saltwater crocodile 
on Friday from the same area, about 825 
miles north of Brisbane. "The big danger is 
that this drain is close to a heavily populated 
(area) and the kids all like playing in the 
creeks and storm water drains," Crawford 
said. In February, a crocodile grabbed a 15­
year-old girl by the legs and tried to drown 
her. She grabbed hold of an overhanging 
branch while her grandmother forced the 
crocodile to release its grip by kicking it in 
the head. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1866.60

9167.50 

+8.36 
NYSE: 
584.11 
+7.20 
S&P 500: 

Composite
1122.72 Volume: 
+14.54 698,500,000
+90.92 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
( 0\11'.\:S\ 11<\:.Jl{ "uSIIYSU S <j,\IN pRICE 
ZE~ITII EI.EC CORP ZE 19.30 0.6BB 4.250 t\LZA CORP AZA 12.63 5.438 48.500 SUENrlFlC ATI.A:'\' SFA 12.:l7 2.250 20.43H CJ:IWANT COR I' CD 11.15 2.125 21.1BB GRCINT'L GRH 9.5B 0.562 6.438 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

GF.~ARDINC GEN 35.74 11.438 20.562 OOMINICKS SUI'ERM DFF 12.81 5.875 40.000 PIN~ERTON'5 INC PKT 8.90 2.125 21.750 DRAV(l CORP DRY 8.70 1.000 10.500 ASIA I'AC RES·A ARII 8.51 0.250 2.688 

Pol Pot's death changes Khmer focus 

CHONG SA-NGAM, Thailand 
The remnants of the Khmer Rouge guerrilla group are seeking a new role in Cambodian politics after Pol Pot's death, dis­tancing themselveli from their new and equally bar­barous leader, Ta Mak. 
Their attempt to present themselves as less brutal and more conciliatory comes as the United States and Thailand press to bring the bloodstained leaders to justice. ' 
Also Sunday, a Thai Army general denied that Pol Pot, the Khmer Rouge leader who died last week, was poisoned. Pol Pot, 73, one of the century's bloodiest tyrants, was cremated Saturday. His captors said he died of a heart attack. 
.Pop¢ .... . prise inv . .on to tw suppressed Catholic 
that he might be caught and put on trial for leading the genocidal regime that caused the deaths of as many as two million Cambodians between 1975 and 1979. 
Pol Pot was deposed last year as leader of the last Khmer Rouge faction still fighting the government by Ta Mok, the one-legged general known as "The Butcher." But a mutiny against Ta Mok four weeks ago has led to mass defec­tions. 
In Bangkok, Thailand, the 
U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Bill Richardson, said the United States and Thailand were cooperating to try to bring Ta Mok and lesser-known but equally bloodstained rebel leaders to justice. 
to ·attend a meeting JAsian prelates. 
"I hope they can ruirive soon among us and bear witness .to the vitality of that ?ommunity," Jthe pope said 
~~~~.c.•.·~·i···.n··.:ie..l.~.·~~~.i:t.. .. ·~.~!E

h.~r:.~.r.s..n
.. 

mainla:iid China, wrft~h sanctions a separate Patriotic QathoHc Church, and virtually all of tM bishops loyal to the Vatican remain u••••t:ti4J,t.J•uuu. 
Vatican officials communist China to attend the fonnalWol'k ....~""'"'"'.n when the two bis.hOI>Sjlmd 
and vv ''"'"'"'" 
Bo major efforts to find these Ranariddh, who was individuals and bring them deposed in a coup by his co­to justice," Richardson said prime minister, Hun Sen, after meeting Thai Foreign last year. The Thais said Minister Surin Pitsuwan. that 200 Khmer Rouge 
Holdouts in the revolu-guerrillas had joined tionary group apparently Ranariddh's supporters a believe that with Pol Pot few days ago. dead, the international com-Ranariddh's forces and munity will be more willing the guerrillas share a com­to accept other Khmer mon enemy in Hun Sen. Rouge chieftains if they Support from the Khmer adopt a different banner. Rouge kept the pro­
Defectors supported by Ranariddh forces alive over the Cambodian army have the past several months in pressed Ta Mok's dwindling the face of massive govern-band of die-hards against ment offensives. the Thai border. Many in The Thai officers said that the rank-and-file are look-Ta Mok's men want him'to ing for a way out, according step down to facilitate a to defectors and Cambodian merger. But, they said, Ta and Thai officials. Thai mil-Mok has been reluctant to itary officers, speaking on give up control of the group condition of anonymity, said and that his disgruntled that some guerrillas want to men may forcibly remove merge with armed backers him from power. 
synod 
woman m~ sari.. were among. those '1\iho perf! before the pope. After th~ ..ll1ass. ·· ul• tur~~d t() N'9~t~ .. 1\o:r.e-~ d > .. . . ..·.· .. noon blessing {rom 
his wm(lowoYer St. Peter's Square: 
"fn this moment. my thoughts go. in particul~r. to the people of North Korea, suffering from hunger and want," he said. John Paul urged Catholic charities and other countries to ~()meto~e aid ofNorth Koreans~ .. 
Pr!ll1ght Jildfloodshave. ravaged crops in ;rec(lnt years,· bringing wide~ spread hul1get'to the (:ommunist coun­try, already suffering from years of bad planning and management. The month long synod gathers bishops from across Asia, where less. than three of the populationis 
the. too. $H~i9n 
•·. in th~ Philippip:e~.· 
ofthe chur()h's e .nump~rof most.pop\llous 

........---------~~---------~-----.-------­
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, April 20, 1998 
~~ 
Honoring champions for civil and human rights 
The Reverend William M. Lewers, C.S.C. Memorial Human Rights Awards Celebration was held last night at the Notre Dame Law School. 
Above: Juan Mendez, from San Jose, Costa Rica, speaks on civil and human rights. 
Left: Ronalth Ochaeta, winner of the Reverend William Lewers, C.S.C. Alumni Award for Distinguised Service in Civil and Human Rights, poses with Father Theodore Hesburgh. 
Below: Mendez receives the Reverend William M. Lewers, C.S.C. International Award for Distinguished Service in Civil and Human Rights. 
Photos lly The Observer/Joe Stark 

Boylan: Independent bank system is key to reform 
By SHANNON GRADY 
News Writer 
In an article titled "Pre­emptive Strike: Central Bank Reform in Chile's Transition from Authoritarian Rule," Delia Boylan writes, "Scholars of democratiza­tion have long recognized the continuing policy mak­ing inl'luencfl that previous authoritarian rulers can exert after the transition has occurred." 
In a talk Boylan gave Thursday entitled, "Democ­ratization and Institutional Change: 1993 Mexican­Central Bank Reform," she explained her theory of how authoritarian rulers can exercise such power through the formation of an indep!~n­dent bank system. 
She explained that a criti­cal defect in many countries struggling to make the tran­sition from authoritarian to democratic government is the faet that the "new lead­ers arc forced to work with­in institutions that former authoritarian rulers creat­
d .. 
e . 
"The costs of changing these policies are greatt·~r than playing by the rules," Boylan said. 
As the old rulers leave, they create policies that entrench their own beliefs and hinder their successors. These policies can involvn electoral rules that dispro­portionately advantage cer­tain partisan interests. 
Or in the example of a mil­itary regime, amnesty claus­es may be introduced to keep former rulers from being tried for human rights abuses. 
Boylan asserts that anoth­er way this can occur is through the formation of an autonomous central bank. 
She explained that in cer­tain "credibility" literature, the formation of a central bank is considernd a wise move. 
This literatun1 claims that governments creatn inde­pendent banks in order to "tie tl11dr own hands." In this way, they take control from the politicians who may try to influence the eco­nomic system to their advantage. 
IlowevBr, in governments that are making the transi­tion from authoritarian to democratic governments, this autonomous central bank may be just. anothnr way for tlw outgoing rngime to entrnnch its b11liefs. 
Boylan used the 1989 Chilean Central Bank rnform as an example. Since 1980, there wern moves in Chiln toward an autonomous cen­tral bank. 
However, the change did not come until three months beforn the old govnrnment was ousted. 
Sh1~ writes that. "thn fact that thn government chose to wait until 1989 suggests that its motivn and timing were not strictiv economic, but also politicai"." 
She also writns, "Whatnver the form at hand, tho basic point is that insulation is a central part or politics in any institutional context, and re1'11~cts the essence of strategy by outgoing nlites in the transition from authoritarian rule." 
Delia Boylan is from the Harris Graduate School of Public Policy Studies at the University of Chicago. 
Please recycle The Observer 

• B~e iJI\volved with cc>o~diJI\atioJI\ of the lA~baJI\ PllAJI\9e 
• All pa~ticipaJI\ts a~·e iJI1vited tc' apply 
Applications currently a'lailable in the Center for Social c:oncerns 

Monday,April27, 1998 is the deadline 


Monday, April 20, 1998 
The O~server • CAMPUS NEWS page7 

Evangelization combihes faith with African culture 
By DAVID FREDDOSO 
Senior Staff Writer 
The latest Christian evange­lization of Africa has suc­ceeded because of the effort to integrate the faith with African culture, according to Father Paul Mimbi. 
Mimbi, who is the chaplain of Strathmore College in Kenya, spoke Thursday night in O'Shaughnessy Hall on Islam, Christianity and tradi­tional African religion. 
"The insertion of the [Christian] faith into the cul­ture of a people" has proven the most successful way of bringing Christianity to Africa, according to Mimbi. 





D M I 


-® 0 
21
20 
WoMEN's TENNisN 
VS INDIANA 
(DURNEY TENNIS COURTS 3:30PM 
BASEBALLN 
AT PITTSBURGH 12:00PM

g .. 
26 
27 
28 
ULTIMATE FRISBEE/C 50FTBALL./V
WON'T FIT ON 26TH... 
VS INDIANA STATEREGIONALS 
BASEBALLN 
IVY FIELD
WOMEN'S TENNIS 

AT SETON HALL AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 
400PM
12 OOPM 
MIAMI,Fl 
BASEBALL./V
WOMEN'S GOLFN

I 
VS MICHIGAN STATE
MEN'S TENNISN 
AT OHIO STATE 
ECK STADIUMAT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 

INVITATIONAL MIAMI,Fl 
7:05PM
ALL DAY
L
·­

at colleen.henshaw@nike.com. You just end up featured in the next issue. To 
.. , Want to make a differ­ence in a kid's life? Think you've got what it takes to be a great coach? If you answered "yes," and you're a current freshman, s~phomore, junior or returning grad student at Notre Dame, email me to find ou~ how you can become a P.L.A.Y.CORPS coach ... Congrats to all Varsity, Club and Intramural athletes on a great semester of hard work! 

A~mUon l~ ~tuJ~t~ll
-~lUU~u ~· • 
The NDMIS club is having its tina! meeting ot the year!! We need to elect commissioners for next year!! Sophomores: come meet your fellow MIS majors!! 
When: Tuesday April 21@ 6 pm 
Where: COBA Lounge (basement ­
next to the computer lab) 
FOOD: Papa John's and Pop!! 

He stressed the fact that Christianity is not a Western religion, since this same process of inculturation had to occur in Europe over a mil­lennium ago. 
"The faith came to Europe through the Hebraic culture," he said, adding that mission­aries like St. Patrick success­fully inculturated European peoples. 
While such cultures as the Irish experienced some change, he said, the process of inculturation does not change the faith. 
"The faith is not of this world," Mimbi said. Through inculturation, he continued, African cultures 
ar¢ "joined to Christianity after the manner of the
1 
Inqarnation," in which God carre together with man in 
Ch~ist. 
T:his process, he said, is occurring now in Africa. 
~frica, he said, has been evangelized three times by Chfistians. The first evange­
l i lz a t i o n ocdurred at the ve~y birth of Chbstianity, beginning with the conversa­tion between the deacon Ph~Ilip and an Et[hiopian eucluch record­ed [in the Acts of the Apostles. Tihe second 
cawe during the 15th century by :the Portuguese, while the thi~d began in the 18th cen­tury and has continued up to thi~ day. The first two evan­ge l!iz a tions largely failed, while the third seems to be succeeding. 
"We have learned from the failure that we should not just discard the [indigenous] 

\ *The Most Mfordable Stud-ent Housing * 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year Summer Rentals }une~August. 
IN CREATING 5PORTS1/2PAGE, NIKE MAKES EVERY EFFORT TO BE 
ACCURATE. WE REGRET ANY ERRORS. IF YOUR TEAM WASN'T COVERED, 
LET YOUR NIKE STUDENT REP KNOW AND WE'LL TRY NEXT ISSUE. 
(") 
23 
24 

25 
0 

'WEHAVE LEARNED FROM THE FAILURE THAT WE SHOULD NOT JUST DISCARD THE [INDIGENOUS] CULTURE AND START ANEW.' 
FATHER PAUL MIME/ 

its complete destruction when the Arabic-speaking Muslims swept across North Africa. 
Meanwhile, in East Africa, Christianity survived the very same Muslim onslaught. Mimbi attributed this to the fact that the Christian faith had been made a part of the people's culture and lan­guage. 
culture and start anew," Mimbi said. 
In the first two evangeliza­tions of Africa, he explained, the missionaries tried to make the Africans conform to Western culture when they became Christians. 
For example, Mimbi said, in St. Augustine's region of 
More recently, as captain of the squad, Ryan propelled Alumni Hall to its first lnterhall Basketball Championship in over 40 
II years. As if these outstanding achievements weren't enough, Ryan was ::1 also recently accepted into law school, proving that he truly is a scholar-:;: athlete. "He's the fiercest competitor I've ever known," says Ryan's Ill close friend and teammate Alex Gese. "His work ethic makes everyone 3 
c 
around him work harder." -. 
111
You might not be able to catch up to Ryan as he seeks to defend his Bookstore title with his #2-seeded team, Mickey's. But you can certainly watch him in action on the court. Jason Matthew Ma/artsik 
North Africa, Christianity was original­ly introduced as a Latin­language religion. It flourished for about two centuries, but its shal­low roots in the culture allowed for 
l1998 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
VS V LPARAISO 
AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS ECKjSTADIUM 
MIAMI,FL 
6: SPM 
SOFTBALLN


1'"' 
AT NORTHWESTERN 300PM 
I 
I 
29 
I 
athlete. Drop me an email 
WOMEN'S TENNISN 
AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS MIAMI,Fl 
MEN'S TENNISN 
AJ BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS MIAMI,Fl 
WOMEN'S LACROSSEN 
• AT COLUMBIA, 300PM 
WON'T FIT ON 24TH... OUTDOOR TRACKfV 
AT DRAKE RELAYS ALL DAY 

WOMEN'S TENNISN  MEN'S l.ACROSSEN  II  
AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS MIAMI,FL  AT HARVARD, 2:00PM SOFTBALL./V  (") 0..  
MEN'S TENNISN  VS VILLANOVA  CD  
AT BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS  IVY FIELD, 12:00PM  n..  
MIAMI,Fl  OUTDOOR TRACKIV  CD  
WOMEN'S l.ACROSSEN AT HARVARD, 1:OOPM  •  AT DRAKE RELAYS ALL DAY  Ill... 0  
:I  

l 
Ill
-W-ON-·i'"FiT-ON-25TH... WOMEN'S GOLFN ! OUTDOOR TRACK/V AT OHIO STATE ! AT PURDUE RELAYS INVITATIONAL ALL DAYS ALL DAY < II
BASEBALL./V ULTIMATE FRISBEE/C I < 
Ill
-A~~T~~--~A~=~~~~------RE-GIONA~S-__j .. 
In 
...
DOING IT '< 
Ryan Healey, a senior American Studies major (") from Sheridan, Wyoming, has experienced 11 great success duri~g the past year. As a member (") of Dos Geses, Ryan was able to lead the team to c 0"'
the Bookstore Basketball Championship last year. 
"The main factor is that from the word 'go' Lhey translated the Bible into Coptic," Mimbi said. "They integrated their culture and their art into their religion." 
The new evangelization, according to Mimbi, contains this same idea of "incultura­tion." Missionaries are now trying to insert Christianity into tribal cultures after puri­fying them of "those elements which are repugnant to rea­son and repugnant to faith." 
As an example of such incompatible elements, Mimbi cited the belief of one tribe that all the cows in the world were their own property. Their belief was and still is the cause of much cattle rustling in East Africa. Another example he gave was that of the Ashanti of Ghana, who kill all deformed babies. 
"Culture is the product of a people," he said, "and can therefore be in error." 
However, the cultures of even these tribes, Mimbi said, contain many elements which can and should be appreciat­ed and preserved by Christianity, so that the faith is "locked up in a beautiful cultural heritage." 
Some elements of tradition­al African religions, Mimbi said, such as polygamy, make Islam more attractive to some Africans. Many ele­ments allow for a very easy transition to Christianity, such as belief in God, adher­ence to the family, belief in evil spirits, the dignity of the created environment and community values. 
251-0674 
IIATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chefin Town! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
J( hll ;>.J!,,, , t• Ill till r5 ~·\lnn Sdl'"i 10 f<'n & Sat 
THE GOAL OF THIS SPORTS1!2PAGE IS TO INFORM STUDENTS ABOUT SPORTS ON CAMPUS. NIKE DOES NdT SPONSOR ANY VARSITY, INTRAMURAL OR CLUB SPORTS ON THIS CAMPUS AND THIS PAGE DOES NOT IN ANY WAY IMPLY SUCH SPONSORSHIP. I 







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 Monday, April 20, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cock., MANA<.IN(; ElliTOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bri;m Rcinrhalc:r Kyle Carlin 
A<i.~ISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
Hc-alhcr Ma(;Kc:nzic 

NEWS EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER .........................Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull AD 0FSJGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelat SPORTS ElliTOR .. ......... Ka1hlocn Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouiller SCF.NF. EDITORS. .......... Sarah Dylag WED AnMINIHRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Kri.,ti Klirsch CONTROLLER .................................... Dave Rogero SAIN'l MARY's EDITOR ............Shannon Ryan PUOTO EUII'OR ...............Kcvin Oalum 
The <..ll~rvcr i~ the mdc~ndcnl newspaper publi"hed by the Mudcnts. of th< University uf Notre Dame du Lac and ~ainr Mary's College. h doc'i nm neces.Yrily rdlecc the policies. of the .tdministrarion of cirher institotion. The news is u:·ported .L~ ,&r;:(l&nltdy .tnJ ohJccttvdy ~ pos.o.ihle. Unsigned cditnrial.o. represent the opinion of the majority of the F.ditor·m~Chief, M.m.t~ing FA.Jitor, A~'ii.'oromr Managing fA.Iitor .md depanmcnt t"d.irors. Commentaries, let1ers and mlumm prc.o.cfll rhe vi~ of rhc .nuhor!>, and nor nc«.:e~'>arily those ofThe Observer. ViLwp<Jint space is available wall mcmbcr.o. uf rhc Norrc 1 ).ame/Sainr M.ary's communiry .md to all rc.aders. The free cxprc~ion ofv.trying opinions 

Pranks in the Workplace 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Lord, make me chaste­
but not yet.' 
-Saint Augustine 

chruugh lcttcr.'i is encouraged. Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office Managing Editor/A"istanl ME 631-4541 Advenising News/Photo 631-5323 Systems Spom 631-454_l Fax Scene//Saint Muy\ 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Day Ediwr/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail Office ManagC'r/Gcnerallnformarion 6.11-7471 News E-Mad 
• DIGGING DEEPER 
I could not stop staring at the globule of mucousal spittle so prominent on the executive's lower lip. lie was droning on and on about how he was this great lawyer, capable of creating personal injury lawsuits out of the thin air, and how he thought I would be doing all of this work for him. 
As he passed his inflammed, chubby, and lard-encrusted
David 
hand through his greasy, scant locks, I thought of


McMahon 
telling him flat out that I was a temp, 

received horrible pay, no benefits, and no job securi­ty. Further, I wanted to tell him that my plans for his o!liee were: 
1. 
To do as little of his menial labor as possible because he had dared to hire a temp. 

2. 
To catch up on some reading. 


3. 
To call as many of my friends around the world as possible from his phone. 

4. 
To spend large chunks of paid time cavorting about the streets of Chicago, enjoying drinks with friends in pubs, or exploring mueseums. 


Instead, I played the part of an eager young, new worker, excited by his agenda, by the work. and by his luxury yachts. In reality, it was my third temp job in three states, and I considered it my sacred duty as a temp to remain an uncomprimising corporate saboteur, dedicated to the prinicples of the work slow down. I placed the headphones on, pretended to be taking down dictation, and opened up the most current issue of the magazine, "Temp Slave" for inspiration. Everytime the globule man appeared, I assumed the posture of work, like a skilled temp knows how, all the while guffawing in secret and awaiting an opporunity to exploit the exploiter. 
Soon, globule man left his office after issuing fur­ther instructions about the paperwork for his yacht. The gall of this fool! Immediately after he left. his paperwork for his yacht found its way to the shred­der. 
Then I helped myself to his larder, but found that the cupboard of the rich is bare. "Cheap dirty Hepubliean," I thought, "he'll pay." Out of the office I strode. taking the remainder of the day to ostensibly send a certified letter of his. Sure, buddy, sure. I 
631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoim.l @nd.edu observer€Vdarwin.cc.nd.edu observer.obsnews. I @nd.edu 
decided the next morning that sleep was more pre­cious than even looking into that corpo-dupe's soul­less eyes. I never bothered to call him, but had to return his office key to the temp agency who promptly fired me, and then called me in a few days to see if I was available, thus proving to me my own superiority over this cor­rupt and wasteful system of temp middlemen. As I was headed the way of the Atlantic Seaboard, I neglected to contact them. 
About a year or so before this Chicago escapade, I found myself working downtown Oakland, California for a grossly oversized, union-busting, medical insurance agency. I was a temp with no bene­fits working for the largest health-care provider in California. After years of preparation for the corpo­rate world with such gems as "Bartleby the Scrivener" and the words of "Temp Slave," "McJob" and other manuals of workplace resistance, I knotted my tie, and headed into work. For four and a half weeks, I successfully avoided doing any work. I read "Bury my Heart at Wounded Knee" and half of "War and Peace." I learned the secrets of Oakland. I called everyone, I raided the supply room and mailed my friends gifts from the Christmas supply, I slept in the office like George Costanza, I came in hours late and left hours early. It was pathetic how feeble corporate America was down to its shallow roots, how weak, how ignorant, how wasteful, how unfriendly the regular workers were towards the temps. The prize for my faked work efficiency (everyone in the office gave me rave reviews) was yet to be awarded, though. While visit­ing my fellow temp and comrade, Colleen, across the corporate plaza, a manager-type dared interrupt me as I supped. She forced me to carry a package for her to her car, unsure of who I even was. I played upon her corporate ladder insecurities by informing her that I worked in the marketing department. Mortified, she insisted I take Colleen to the LakeView club on her account. 

Later that night, we gorged ourselves at her expense, I -wildly flailing my arm towards the waiter for more of the best wine as Colleen took her 
1111. It was a night that once and for all provedf to me the inferiority and morally corrupt
b nature of corporations. I was finally able to make the eonnection. with a well-contented laugh, between idiocy and corporate life. 
And the moral of these parables of my vampire-like feasting on the soul-less corpo­ration'? The business school of Notre Dame, mueh like HOTC, should be forced ofT campus, running, with their tails between their legs. These corrupt tie-clad buffoons who control our health eare are the most incompetent nin­compoops I have ever encountered (even more so than South Bend mullets!!!). The people with whom I 
of corporate life in America-greed entangled with people's welfare. These are the people to whom we turn to guide our healthcare'? These are the people with the govern­ment's ear'? These mean-spirited, clumsy know­nothings with no moral compasses? Well, I admit it, I may be forced to temp again for my own survival. But I will never allow them to control my life, not for a second. And, much like ROTC, if we can't beat them, at least we ean laugh at them. 
David McMahon is a recent Notre Dame graduate who is directing a program that helps ex-convicts in central Massachusetts. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of/'he Observer . 





VIEWPOINT

Monday, April 20, 1998 page 9 
WE LEARNED MORE 
Wooed by' 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum 
to be young-to be alive. • 
What is this slippery thing. yi)uth? If you spend your days sprintingtojoin the oblivion then you are not young,Jf getting a that you can get thejob, so that you can get •t..,,·-~-'"' suburbs with the two car · and th<> •,.,,."";''"" 
young. If I am my bravest wtien lil:trf'blitzed Saturday nightto look up , , ... 
Ifl get more excited about · · ·• Soaps than that amazing idea, that new theory or question or challenge, then I am old. If belonging to a r€!1i~ gion is for you, like belonging !9 ~ • · great club-you get to hangout with people just like you, you are comfortable, and there are amazing perks for members, like life eternal -then you are clamoring a dogma, not truth. Ifyou wo about the circumference of ,, ..• thighs more than child-labor law~-t> then you are dull and youth is sharp. spangled. If you le(hateful ··· · like "that's so gay'~ and'~he fag" roll off your tongue,th ...• mind is withered and your lie probably never skips a beat . .,.,,,,,,.. 
In her lecture last week. Dolores 
Huerta, the M·founder of ·· · · Farm Workers, spoke fiery fierceness ofa true visionary She is an old grandmother .....u .v.,. she is so young, so alive power of ideas. She asked ered audience who had Anf1Fitil>ssittn~• gation, who had ended War. The answer · 
It's too easy to racism, that was the are enough causes on crunnus,, l: here, right now, tq into. Go to the rallies outs and the .. lectU'res attendance, ain't it a ~J.n~·~'~'Y •tiii.~'-'··•.n>, 
Student Alliance. Chain yours(llfto a tr Campaign for Ralph Nader. Stopshav· 
e.e. cummings wrote, supple/ and even jflt's young." 
You have the r(.)st of your munity and look down fromyour hill and welfare mothers and newideas 
Right now you are . You &;e So be generous, be true,·.m:.u~<t·:~'""L'"' world, this beautiful beat-up 
• lETIER TO THE EOITOR 

Don't Squash the PSA 
To the Administration (or what's left after the bombs go off this morning): We are here. We are still here. And we are not going away. To make your lives easier we have provided you with an exhaustive list of ten reasons 
to deny the Progressive Squirrel Alliance club status. Note, however, that our top-notch research committee has philosophically disproved any other possible reason. So be fore­warned. 
*Top Ten Reasons to Squash the PSA* 
10. Because we believe that heterosexuals can be cured. 
9. For daring to ask questions at a university. 
8. Jealousy: We have sex at all (well ok, almost all) our meetings. 
7. Prevent your US News and World Heport College Rankings from ;railing (this is NOT a threat). 
6. Exercise your self-given right to discriminate on the grounds of sexual orientation. 
5. You're suspicious about what the $394.23 budget request for fertilizer, pipes, cherry bombs, wire and kiwi will be really used for (nor is this). 
4. We're a front for the College Democrats. 
3. We perform free abortions every third Thursday (for squirrels). 
1 

2. We will protest ANYTHING. merely for the sake of achieving justice (but this is). 
1. Squirrels, like students, have no rights. So you don't need a reason. 
Vale. health, and remember that one day you too will have to defend your actions before an insanely large squirrel. 
Aaron Kreider Domer Club co-chair April 19, 1998 
• DIGGING DEEPER 


Bring Back the Slap, and Other Fragn1ents 
Notre Dame's own Women's Hesource center is conveniently providing stu­dents with fliers from Planned Parenthood of Northern Indiana. The cover of these fliers reads: "Planned Parenthood. We're more than you think." 
Now that's what I call truth in 
advertizing. As most of you probably 
know. Planned Parenthood is the 
largest abortion referral provider in

Aaron 

the world, and has been largely responsible for the political advocacy which has kept the abortion industry in business, despite the fact that a

Kheriaty 

majority of American's believe that 
-----========:_____ abortion is a bad thing. So you see, 
-

"Planned Parenthood" is a fantastic euphemism: they exist for those who failed to plan ("Oh my gosh, I'm pregnant. How did this happen?"), and who have no desire for parenthood. It reminds me of a similar observation I once ·heard regarding the term "birth control," which incidentally has nothing to do with birth. and is for those who do not exercise self control. 
So it is easy to see why Planned Parenthood included the caveat. "We're more than you think" on their advertisement. They must be worried about what peo­ple may think they are up to. They should be. Did I mention that you can find these fliers (and plenty of other good information on how to get an abortion) at the University of Notre Dame's Women's Resource Center? Maybe that's why the University is raising tuition again next year-Planned Parenthood must have jacked up the price of their fliers. You may want to let your parents know where the extra money is going before they decide to shell it out again. 
On a totally unrelated note, did you know that after a person used to be con­firmed in the Church, the bishop administering the sacrament would slap the confirmed candidate on the face? Not enough to hurt, mind you, but as a symbol­ic reminder that you were now a soldier for Christ. A rather powerful symbol, I thought. I noticed, though, that the Basilica did things differently at the Easter Vigil. After being confirmed the candidates were not given a mild slap, but a warm hug. Boy, things sure have changed. 
Before his passion and death, our Lord says the following to his disciples: "If the world hates you, know that has hated me before it hated you. Ifyou were of the world, the world would love its own; but because you are not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word I said to you, 'A servant is not greater than his master.' If they persecute me, they will persecute you." (John 15: 18-20) In light of these words, I say, bring back the slap. Sure. it's not quite as warm and fuzzy as a hug, but it's a great wake up call to the Church militant. (Women's Resource Center, take note.) 
On another completely unrelated note, I have been puzzled as of late in regards to a certain phenomenon on our campus. DART time is always interest­ing, and one can't help noticing that there are certain classes which always fill up within the first hour or so of registration. One of these immensely popular classes is Father Michael Baxter's theology course. entitled "A Faith to Die For." As the title suggests, it is not a course for the complacent. What I fmd puzzling is not the fact that this class is so popular (some jokingly call it "A Class to Die to Get Into"), but rather, the fact that if it wasn't for a gutsy maneuver made two years ago by our noble president, Father Malloy, Baxter would not be teaching here. Malloy went over the head of the theology department, and hired Father Baxter amidst criticism from the faculty senate and most members of the theolo­gy department itself. What I don't understand is how students could find Baxter's theology so much more appealing that the rest of the department facul­ty, while the department stubbornly insists that he is unqualified to teach here. 
I personally found that there was never a dull moment in Baxter's stimulating and challenging course, not to mention the fact that I learned a great deal of solid Catholic moral theology. Perhaps this is what the theology department was afraid of. While the department's old regime is concerned mainly with conform­ing their thought to that of modern secular culture, Baxter stands (with many enthusiastic students) in contrast to their uncritical accomodationism; he 
believes that if one is truly living one's Christian faith, one will necessarily be a bit 'countercultural.' (Women's resource Center, take note.) Baxter's theology flies in the face of such views as the one taken by the former head of NO's theology department who "always argued that Catholic Tradition is like a big salad bar," where "there are a lot of things you can put on your plate." As Father Neuhaus of First Things noted, "It's hard to have a really good argument with a salad bar." For more on the Baxter affair, see www.nd.edu/-afreddos/bax­ter.htm. 
That's all for now, folks. Good luck with final exams. Oh, one more thing, if you get the chance before you leave this summer, check out the Notre Dame Women's Resource Center. It's like a great big salad bar. 

J 
Aaron Kheriaty is a junior pre-professional and philos­ophy major. His column appears every other Monday. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 





n_ E 

page 10 ------------------~OBSERVER ------------------Monday, April20, 1998 
'City of Angels': An urban love story 

a tasteful and healthy patient on the operating forbidding distance between them. If respectable manner. table. This scene thus leads to the only he could become human. 

The portrayal of the pivotal interaction between humans Maggie's next patient is Nathaniel angels in this film fol-and angels, the basis of 
Messinger. lows the previous work the film. played by
Director: Brad Silberling 
rather closely. but The film stars Nicolas Dennis includes unique tactics Cage as Seth, an angel Franz (who
Starring: Nicolas Cage, Meg Ryan, Andre 
nonetheless, Angels are observing the many fasci­for once in 
Braugher and Dennis Franz 
beings wearing black nating qualities of human­his life is trench coats that travel ity. With his partner not playing the earth and see that Cassiel. played by Andre a police things go according to Braugher, Seth continually officer). God's plan. These wonders what it is like to Messinger angels watch over have emotions and senses is the humans solemnly from like humans. When intermedi­

(Out of five shamrocks) 
the many rooftops of accompanying a person's a t e Los Angeles, allowing spirit to Heaven, Seth between
Photo Courtesy of Wamer Brothers
for shots of sheer cine­always asks what they the film's
Afilm about human revelation and sim­
By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE matic beauty. enjoyed most about being plicity, "City of Angels" is divine. two lovers. The angels inhabit the city library, alive. He records each and lie con­
Scene Movie Critic an interesting selection as angels can every response, dreaming of what fronts Seth and tells him of a past 
hear a person's every thought. They these experiences are actually like. experience much like the present
As we approach the last few weeks 
choose the library so they can listen This angel feels alone and unnoticed love scenario. Messinger was once anof school, pressure and stress soar to as people read the sweet prose of leg­until he finds the young surgeon Dr. angel himself. but realized that Godintolerable levels. 
endary authors. But the job most Maggie Rice, played by Meg Ryan. gave angnls one quality common to
With this chaos we often neglect the often assigned to angels is accompa­This surgeon loses a healthy patient humans, free will. This former angelspecial moments that occur everyday, 
nying the dead to the gates of and wonders what it is she did realized he could choose to fall to
whether this be a cool breeze or flow­Heaven. This role leads to an inter­wrong. Seth knows it was the earth to be with the woman he loved,ers blooming on the quad. 
esting question: Do humans in any patient's time and although Maggie but this is never an easy decision.
"City of Angels," the new 

battled to Seth would be giving up an eternal save his life of service to God and the miracu­life, there lous abilities possessed by all angels. was noth­The emphasis here is on free will ing she and what individual decision actually could do. plays within our lives. I will not S e t h reveal any further elements of th<~ watches plot becausn the film does end in an as Maggie interesting fashion. I will trdl you that I a t e r this cast works as an exc<dlent c o p e s ensemble, a quality we infrequently with this see from name brand actors and loss, and actresses. Together they put forth a attempts love story that warms the heart and to ease left even this hardened rcvi ewer her pain misty eyed. b y This is a film about two things often appear­yet appropriately idealized in our ing to society, love and romance. "City of her. The Angels" reminded us to onjoy even two speak the most insignificant parts of our about a day. To take a look around and see
masterpiece, "Wings of 
Photo Courtesy of Wamer Brothers 

person's everything right with the world
Desire" (1987). This adapta­
Meg Ryan and Nicolas Cage star in "City of Angels," a romantically angelic film 
time on rather than point out its numeroustion is not of the same caliber 
about the simplicity of love, life, and time. 
earth, but flaws. If you are more of a violenceas the original, but Silberling they also and action buff you probably will not
still puts forth a delightful 
way predict when it is time to die? create a bond neither has ever had, enjoy it, if you are romantic or in a
product. The film borrows a great 
This question motivates the plot as love. Seth yearns to be with this relationship, enjoy this tout~hing storydeal from the original, but does so in a talented heart surgeon loses a woman, but being an angel leaves of humanity and love. 
Unique arousal • 'Love and Death'
tn 

Hurt ("Midnight "Skid Marks" and "Tex Mex." A fluidly funny account of Bostock's Express") plays Giles The heartstrings of his infatuation career is articulated by Giles as he
00{1@~@ ~@(Q) @@~~(ill @@ 
De'ah -pronounced bring him to Chesterton, Long Island, tells the unassuming good-looker Death -who, locked out in search of his beloved Bostock. that he has real talent, that his "Tex
{1@@@ a~a~@(Q) 00 
of his apartment one Here, British writer-director of his Mex" could have been about "the 
day, attends a showing first feature, Richard Kweitniowski, plight of the exploited Gastarbeiters." 
of "Hot Pants College affords some satiric comments on the Surprisingly, Priestley ("Beverly
Director: Richard Kwietniowski 
II." commonalites of American culture-Hills 9021 0") brings real substance 
Starring: John Hurt, Jason Priestley, Fiona 
This may be the first to an essentially empty role. film that Giles has ever 
Vanity Fair called "Lolita" "the
Loewi, Sheila Hancock and Maury Chaykin 
seen, as he is a horribly only convincing love story of our misplaced figure in the time." In that same sense, the twentieth century (he prospects of the romantic plot of 
By RYAN BLOCH doesn't realize that one "Love and Death" are feasible. Badger Herald (Universi1y of Wisconsin) needs a television set to use a VCR). Films about unrequited romantic Immediately, he "discovers beauty obsession ("Basic Instinct") have "Love and Death On Long Island" is where no one ever thought to look become over-pathologized by pre­
a remake of "Death In Venice" and a for it" in the figure of Ronnie Bostock Freudian psych majors; romantic 
riff on "Lolita"-two novels where (Jason Priestley), B-movie teen comedies (any Meg Hyan vehicle) 
the mad1~r need not subscribe to ped­dream. have become so stock that they pad 
erasty or pedophilia to enjoy tlwir Attending the screening again, he the market. 
libidinous content. is reduced to a crush-smitten child But "Love and Death" reinvents "Love and Death on Long Island" with the ironic twist of having the the romantic comedy anew. It nei­views like a "what if?" experience. benefits of a classical education and Photo Courtesy of Lion's Gate ther stars Meg Ryan nor does it 
"9021 0" star Jason Priestley sheds his TV
What if a widower, an elderly, old­a first-rate intellect. conform to usual assumptions of 
persona to play actor Ronnie Bostock in the
world writer, Englishman and A rarefied soul who has no concept what a film about man-boy obses­
uniquest of romantic comedies. 

esthete (John Hurt) wound up attend­of popular culture, Giles finds himself sion could be. 
ing a B-movie? Would he understand besmirched in that long-standing Rather, it tests the tolerance of 
it better than anyone ever did? American tradition of clipping photos Giles is accosted by a talking car mass market audiences without "Love and Death On Long Island" is of one's favorite "mega dream boat" alarm and dons an incongruous pair crossing over to self-defeating homo­a romantic comedy about the power and putting them into a very private of mod sunglasses. eroticism. of film to seduce and·about obses­album. Further, he ingratiates himself into "Love and Death On Long Island" is sion-the kind that the distribution of He seeks out magazines with names Bostock's company incognito as the worth watching. fanzine mania is based upon. John like Sugar, and rents every scuzoid grandfather of an overtly ebullient 
feature length that ever cast Bostock: fan. 

----------~--------------------~----------------------~-----------.-----------------------, 
Ot 

Monday, April20, 1998 ---------------~OBSERVER --------------------page11 

• VIDEO PICKS OF THE WHK • OPPERS 



'Chinatown' 
DIRECTOR: Roman Polanski STARRING: jack Nicholson, Faye Movie Title/(Gross Sales) Dunaway, john Huston, Perry Lopez 
1. 
City of Angels ($13.2 million) 

2. 
The Object of My Affection($1 0 million) 

3. 
Lost in Space ($7.7 million) 

4. 
Titanic ($7.3 million) 5. Paulie($5.5 million) 



By MIKE McMORROW emotional revelations. But it is on this 
6. Species II ($3.9million)

Scene Movie Critic last point that "Chinatown," gets its pummeling power. The mor1:1 we learn 7. The Odd Couple II ($3.7 million) I love movies that begin simply and about these characters' past relations 

8. Mercury Rising ($3.6 million) 
then get more complex and interesting with each other, and their own respec­as they proceed. tive personal histories, the more the The Players Club ($3.6 million) 
This may sound ridiculous at first -­ending becomes a stunning and 10. Major League Ill: Back to the Minors ($2.1 million)how can movies get more complex as depressing thing. they go on? But "Chinatown" is a spe­Most people have heard the film's cial case because the film purposefully last five words-one of the most does not reveal key aspects of certain famous lines in movie his,tory. But Source: NY Times AP online characters' personalities until later in when the words "Come on Jake, it's the film. thereby giving each character Chinatown" leap from the s<;reen, and more depth than was first assumed. No the camera draws back to ,give us a one is completely ~ o r e evil in e'ncom­
"Chinatown,"and p ass in g 1-------------------------------1 no one is com­shot, we pletely virtuous. realize that That's the t~e most essence of noir: important the absence of pierson a I heroes. And in history in "Chinatown" the film director Homan belongs to Polanski does Jjl.ke him­not dissent from s¢lf--some­this tenet. t; h i n g 

Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 
Jack Nicholson which we stars as Jake d i d n ' t Gittes, an inde­khow or 1. Titanic ($542. 9 million) pnndent private e~pect up 
2. As Good As It Gets ($139.6 million) 
eye who "help u)1til this people when last shot. 3. Good Will Hunting ($129.2 million. they're in a rough That is a 
4. Tomorrow Never Dies($123.3 million) 
situation." One tribute to 
woman whom he another 5. Scream 2 ($96. 3 million) helps is named wonderfully 6. Flubber ($92.8 million) 
Evelyn Mulwray {Faye Dunaway), the startling thing about tl.ie film­
7. The Wedding Singer ($74 million) 
wife of the water commissioner. She's Nicholson's performance. No'one could suspicious her husband is cheating on bring the sarcasm, charisma and pas­8. Mouse Hunt ($61.2 million) her -this is Jake's specialty --and sion to Jake Gittes like he does. No one 
9. Anastasia ($56. 5 million) 

she wants a confirmation. could have made such a vulnerable 
The plot begins with this connection, character look so tough. A$d no one 10. The jackal ($54. 9 milllion) and leads to a possible conspiracy can tell a racist joke so well. , involving the water department and The sets and art direction provide a the building of a dam. People die, wonderful mood for the film. Typical of 
Source: The Hollywood Reporter fraudulent names are used to buy film noir, there is a lot of emphasis on land, more people die; and all of this shadows, and a great deal of low-key for Mr. Gittes to figure out. Of course, lighting. It creates the perfect mood for he never meant to get this involved, the film-a perfect medium for reveal-but sometimes one just can't help it. ing the intricacies of the characters' The film is so intricately woven and personalities and lives, and relations beautifully thought out, though, that among each other. "Chinatown" is as the viewer can't help but get complete­close to a perfect movie as y(l)u can get ly involved. -managing to be so funny and involv-


But the beauty of the film is that it ing, so well-acted and well-drawn, and does not rely on the intricacies of the finally so charged with anger, fear, 

-. 
plot as its only method of keeping the hatred, and despair. See the movie, viewer involved. Also incorporated is a and reflect on how hard those final five great deal of humor, and startling words hit you. 
Video Title 
1. 
ln&Out 

2. 
The Devil's Advocate 



At the theaters At the video store 
3. 
The Full Monty 


4. 
I Know What You Did Last Summer


Nightwatch (Miramax) The Ice Storm 
5. The Edge
(20th Century Fbx) 
6. Mimic

Sour Grapes (Sony) 
7. The Peacemaker

Kiss the Girls (Paramount) 
8. The Game

Suicide Kings 
9. Air Force One

(Live Entertainment) The House of Yes 
10. G.l. Jane


(Miramax) Chinese Box (Trimark) 
Source: Billboard Online 

Source: Moviefinder.com 


page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, April 20, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 


Saberhagen wins again for Red Sox; Tigers ~edge Yankees 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Brnt Saberhagnn continued his strong comeback. allowing four hits in six shutout innings Sunday to lead the Boston Hed Sox over the Cleveland Indians 2-0. 
Saberhagen (3-0), who missed the entire 1996 season due to shoulder surgery and pitched just six ganws last year, struck out four and walked one, help­ing Boston improve to 8-1 at Fenway Park this year. lie has won three straight decisions for the first time since June 18-28, 1995. 
Jim Corsi followed and Tom Gordon pitdlPd the ninth for his fourth save in five chances, com­pleting a seven-hitter. lie allowed a lcadoiT double in the ninth to Sandy 1\lomar, who had bnen in an 0-for-23 slump. 
Darren Bragg had a career­high four hits for Boston, going 4-for-4. 
Dave Burba (2-2) allowed two runs and nine hits in seven innings. Cleveland, which stranded nine runners, lost for just the third time in 10 road games this year. The top four hitters in the Indians batting order were 1-for-15. 
Boston went ahead in the fifth after Nomar Garciaparra led ofT with a triple that got past Manny Hamirez in right. John Valentin walked. Mo Vaughn struck out and Jim Leyritz hit a sacrifice fly. 
Bragg doubled leading ofT the sixth, took third on Darren Lnwis' groundout and scored on Mark Lemke's sacrifice fly. 
TIGERS 2 YANKEES 1 
Damion Easley's sacrifice fly scored the go-ahead run in the eighth inning and Brian Moehler allowed three hits in eight innings as the Detroit Tigers snapped a seven-game losing streak with a 2-1 win over the New York Yankees. 
Detroit's win also ended New York's eight-game winning strnak and was the Tigers' first at home against the Yankees in 13 games. 
Tony Clark hit his first home run since Sept. 14 in the seventh inning oil' Ilideki lrabu, who was struck in the side by a line drive in the sixth. 
Moehler (1-2) struck out seven and walked one. Todd Jones pitched the ninth for his second save. 
lrabu was having his second start of the season before exiting after Clark's leadoff homer in the seventh. The right-hander allowed three hits in six innings with seven strikeouts. 
With the score tied 1-1 in the Detroit eighth. Haul Casanova singled and Brian Hunter walked before a pitch from reliever Darren Holmes (0-1) put runners at first and third with one out. Easley hit a fly to short center. and pinch-runner Kimera Bartee scored as Bernie Williams' throw was off line. 
Clark, who struck out his first two at-bats, hit a 2-0 pitch off the facing of the right-field upper deck for his first home run in 65 at-bats this year. He hit 32 last season. 
New York tied it 1-1 in the eighth. Chad Curtis and Scott Brosius singled to put runners at the corners with one out. Pinch­hitter Jorge Posada bounced a grounder to second, and Curtis scored when the Tigers couldn't turn a double play. 
Both starters were outstanding as the only runners for either team through 4 1-2 innings came from two Irabu walks in the first. Neither runner got past first, however, as Irabu picked off Hunter and struck out Easley and Clark. 
Moehler, helped by a great diving stop from second base­man Frank Catalanotto that robbed Tino Martinez of a hit, retired the first 14 batters he faced before Darryl Strawberry drew a two-out walk in the fifth. 
Catalanotto got the game's first clean hit, a one-out single through the middle in the Tigers' fifth. He moved to third with two out when Irabu balked and then threw away a pickoff attempt but was stranded when Raul Casanova flew out to right. 
CARDINALS 3 PHILLIES 2 
Kent Mercker pitched seven shutout innings, and Juan Acevedo struck out Rico Brogna to end the game with the bases loaded as the St. Louis Cardinals beat the Philadelphia Phillies 3-2 Sunday for a three-game sweep. 
St. Louis, which hung on after taking a 3-0 lead, completed a 5­1 homestand and sent the Phillies to their fifth consecutive loss. 
Mark McGwire went 1-for-3 with a double and has failed to homer in consecutive home games for the first time last Sept. 25-26. All eight of his home runs this year have come at Busch Stadium. 
With the Cardinals ahead 3-0, Rex Hudler singled off Lance Painter leading off the ninth. Desi HelafiJrd doubled and Kevin Sefcik hit a two-run double. Philadelphia then loaded the bases when Doug Glanville and Gregg Jefferies, 1-for-13 in the series, was hit by a pitch. 
Acevedo relieved and retired Scott Holen on a pop fly that McGwire caught in short right field, throwing home to keep Sefcik at third. Mike Lieberthal popped out to McGwire to the right sidn of the mound and Brogna, a pinch hitter, struck out as Acevedo got his first career save. 
Mercker (2-0) allowed six hits, struck out three and walked two, lowering his ERA from 6.35 to 4.50. 
Matt Beech (0-1) gave up three runs and seven hits in six innings, struck out four and walked two. 
St. Louis went ahead 2-0 in the first on doubles by McGwire and Brian Jordan, and Gary Gaetti's single. Gaetti is just 4-for-18 (.222) with runners in scoring position. 
Brian Hunter homered in the sixth, his first since Sept. 29, 1996. 
DEVIL RAYS 6 ANGELS 0 
Tampa Bay became the first expansion team to move four games above .500 as Rolando Arrojo pitched seven strong innings to lead the Devil Rays over the Anaheim Angels 6-0 Sunday. 
Tampa Bay (10-6) is the first expansion team with a winning record after 16 games and is just a half-game out of first place in the AL East. None of baseball's 13 other expansion teams ever reached four games over. 

Arrojo (2-1) allowed six hits in seven innings, struck out five and walked one. Dan Carlson and Roberto Hernandez com­pleted the six-hitter. 
Allen Watson (0-2) gave up all the runs and eight hits in 4 1-3 innings. His ERA rose 10.38 to 11.08. 
Tampa Bay took a 3-0 lnad in the third on Watson's wild pitch with a runner on third, Quinton McCracken's run-scoring single and Jerome Walton's HB I dou­ble. 
Mike DiFelice homered in the fifth, and Tampa Bay addf:d two more runs in the inning on Watson's HBI single and Fred McGriff's run-scoring double. 
Anaheim loaded the bases with no outs in the second on singles by Frank Bolick, Cecil Fielder and Phil Nevin. But Arrojo struck out Matt Walbeck, then speared Gary DiSarcina soft liner and turned it into a double play. 
Fielder doesn't have a homer in 54 at-bats (114 including spring training). Prior to this season, his longest homerless streak at the start of the season was 12 at-bats. 
CUBS 2 DODGERS 1 
Jeremi Gonzalez allowed four hits in eight innings and llenry Rodriguez homered as the Chicago Cubs beat the Los Angeles Dodgers 2-1 Sunday for their seventh win in nine home games this season, 
Mark Grace had an RBI single for the Cubs, who improved to 11-7. They didn't get their 11th win last season until May 13. 
Los Angeles, 5-2 at Dodger Stadium, dropped to 3-7 on the road. 
Gonzalez (1-2) allowed a run in the seventh when Todd Hollandsworth tripled and Matt Luke doubled. Gonzalez helped himself defensively, knocking down four comebackers and relaying each to first, including back-to-back shots by Jose Vizcaino and Ismael Valdes in the third. 
Mike Piazza hit a shot in the fourth that took off the 23-year­old right-hander's glove. Gonzalez retrieved the ball with his bare hand in time to make the play. 
Hod Beck pitched the ninth for his sixth save in six chances. llollandsworth singled and pinch-hitter Thomas Howard doubled with one out. Luke and .Jose Vizcaino then struck out. 
Ismael Valdes (1-3), winless in three road starts, gavo up both runs and seven hits in 6 2-3 innings, striking out six and walking one. 
Chicago wont ahead in thn first when Mickey Morandini singlod, stole second and scored on Grace's singlo. 
Hodriguez hit his seventh homer of the season with ono out in the fourth, prompting bleacher fans to throw "Oh Henry!" candy bars onto the field. Play was briefly halted so security could pick up some of the bars in right field. 
HANGEHS 11 ORIOLES 7 
Ivan Rodriguez capped a five­run fourth inning with a three­run homer Sunday to lead the Texas Rangers over tho Baltimore Orioles 11-7. 
Rodriguez went 4-for-5, and Juan Gonzalez had four RB!s to take over the AL lead with 22. The Rangers, who took an 11-1 lead into the ninth, won for the sixth time in seven games. 
Rangers startor Bobby Witt (2­
0) allowed three runs and eight hits in eight-plus innings. lie walked three and struck out one. 
Texas won twice during the three-game series after going 1­10 against Baltimore last sea­son. Hoberto /\lornar and Harold Baines had two hits each for the Orioles, who have lost four of five. 
Texas took a 4-0 lead in the second off Jimmy Key (2-1 I on Kevin Elster's HBI double, Bill 1-Iaselman's run-scoring single and Juan Gonzalez's two-run single. 
Baltimore cut the delidt to 4-1 in the fourth on ILl. Surhofrs HBI single. 
But Texas added a five-run fourth, with Key walking two and balking in a run during the inning. Key loaded the bases on two hits and a walk, then balked in Jlaselman from third. Later in the inning, Key issued another walk and Will Clark doubled in a run to end Key's start. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. 10 3 p.m. at :109 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right 10 edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Classifieds 

NOTICES  Rec Sports is hiring student supervisors for next academic year. Freshmen and sophomores  Need Summer Housing? Rooms available in a house 3/4 of a mile from campus  Tri-level 3 bedroom house, 1.5 miles from campus across from park, with 1.5 bath, family room with  FOR SALE  B, When are you going to wear your  
preferred. Must qualify for work/  Live with other students  fire place, 2 car garage & fenced in  Beautiful brass bed, queen size,  new blue thing?  
000 THE COPY SHOP 000  study. Sports interest and/or  Reasonable rates  backyard. Has ale, stove, frig., d/w,  with orthopedic mattress set and  M  
LaFortune Student Center  background helpful. Apply by  Call 4-t 190 for INFO  g/d, & wid.  deluxe frame. New, never used, still  
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE,  April 23, Rec Sports office.  960 per mo. 289-5057 or 232­ plastic. $225  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  
AND WEEKENDS!!!  ALL SIZE HOMES  4527  219-862-2082  babbling brooks in summer.  
Men · Thur 7:30am -Midnight  MODELS NEEDED! Female and  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire- 
Fri 7:30am -7:00pm  Male Models for an upcoming  232-2595  Bed & Breakfast for ND gradua­ 84 Nissan Sentra 4dr.  place in winter. Love and joy for  
Sat Noon -6:00pm  A VEDA production. Model calls are  lion & Football. 3 miles from ND.  $1200.  your baby all year long. Happy, car- 
Sun Noon · Midnight  being held now. Have fun and get a  1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR  287-4545  Greg 288-3408  ing professional couple would love  
CALL 631-COPY  great new look. Please call1-800­ CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPERTIES  to provide a newborn with love, joy  
356-5533 ext 1209 for information.  272-6551  1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ 
WANTED CRUISE SHIP & LAND-TOUR  I I  FOR RENT  FREE SUMMER STORAGE  Rooms in private house. 1 mile from ND. Summer rental. Greg 634-0766  2 BATH CONDO VAULTED GREAT ROOM W/ FRPL FOR SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX 235-3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY  800-484-7011 Pin #4523 Earn Free Computer, Monitor and Printer. Call:255-6455  
JOBS · Excellent benefits. World  Now Renting  '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR.  HOUSE LEASE 4BR 2BA PT  4/261-3 PM  
Travel. Ask us how! 517-324-3090  Campus View  W/D. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE.  FURN WID/ DIW WALK-NO AVAIL  Dan and Dan ­ A winning  
ext. C55841  1 & 2 Bedrooms  234-3831/273-0482  6/1 GRAD PREF  PERSONAL  Observer combination.  
2 Blocks from campus  (773)288-8822  
Sales/Marketing Internships  272-1441  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  Thence ­ because this is  
University Directories is hiring  4BR house close to ND.  5 bedroom house for rent for 98­ Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor  mechanics.  
students to sell yellow page adver­ grad students only unfurnished.  99, 105 Marquette 232-6964  play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID-1/2  
!ising for the official campus tele- Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home.  233-1727 1 ,300  price field fee.  Um ... OK.  
phone directory this summer. Paid  2 blks from campus 273-1566  Room for rent in 5 bdrm house.  291-2540.  
internship. Training program.  ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA- Kitch, Washer, Dryer, Safe  We all love Heather Cocks.  
Excellent sales/marketing & man- TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS.  Nghbrhd, close to campus. All  Hey -We're open early, late, and  
agement experience. Call  COLLEGE PARK APT.-spotless- LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM- Util. incl. $200. avail. now.  weekends for your convenience!  Flattery will get you everything ­ 
1-800-743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit  cheap rent for summer-call 243­ PUS, CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL  Paul Roy-232-2794  000 THE COPY SHOP 000  I mean everywhere.  
www.universitydirectories.com  9309  277-8340  LaFortune Student Center  
Phone 631-COPY  

Monday, April 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
and pitching gave the Irish a 
• tRACK AND FlEW 

5-0 victory to sweep the
Softball 
series and the weekend. Notre Dame drew first blood in the
continued from page 20 


Irish split up and find success
first, when Giampaolo singled 
while Kelly Nichols pitched the remainder of the game in a non-save situation. The Huskies, who eliminated the Irish from the last two Big East Championships, were themselves taken out of con­tention from a ninth straight conference tournament. With the sweep, they fall to 19-17­1 on the season and 5-7 in Big East play. 
"I would say beating them brought a lot of confidence to our team," senior Korrie Allen remarked about the series. "We dominated the whole series, and never allowed them to get ahead of us during either of the games." 
On Sunday, Notre Dame closed out the homestand with a doubleheader against conference rival St. John's. After sweeping UConn, the Red Storm proved no match for the Irish, who swept them to extent their winning streak to 10 games. 
In the first game, Notre Dame took the lead early with a solo home run by Lemire in the second inning. The Hed Storm tied the game in the top of the third with three consecutive singles to drive in one run. 
It would be the only run for St. John's all day, as the Irish would take advantage of two triples from Lisa Tully to score two more runs and pre­serve the win. Klayman scored on Tully's first triple, and drove in Dawn Cunningham on her second of the afternoon. 
In the second game, a strong combination of hitting leading off, stole second, advanced to third on a sacri­fice, and scored on an error. A single by Klayman later in the inning drove in Mathison and Alkire to make it a three­run lead. 
Giampaolo would score again in the fifth inning after reaching on an error, stealing second, and coming in on a double by Laboe. Lemire then singled home Rowe to push the score to 5-0. 
Notre Dame was led by Tully, who went 4-for-6 with two triples and a stolen base. Both Bessolo and Sharron pitched complete games, with Bessolo striking out eight bat­ters and allowing only three hits. 
The 10-game winning streak is the most for a Notre Dame team since a team­record 19 straight games in 1996. With the loss, St. John's falls to 13-24-1 on the season and 5-9 in conference play. 
"I think we've really come together more as a team," Allen said. "Right now, we're really just doing it with a group effort." 
The Irish lead the South Division by two wins over Villanova. The Irish and the Wildcats will tangle in a divi­sion-deciding three-game series this weekend at Ivy Field. Despite holding the advantage, Allen still feels the series will be a hard-fought one. 
"This will be a really impor­tant series for us. It's impor­tant we go in there confident and win all three games, and just dominate like we have been." 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------~ 
By~THLEEN O'BRIEN 
SportS Writer 
Sqveral members of the Notre Dame track and field team came ho~e victorious from meets in Midl.igan and California. 
Head track and field coach Joe 
Pi~e split up his squad for added pot .ncy this weekend, sending so e athletes to Michigan State for a more laid-back meet and a cha11ce to recuperate from a jam­packed schedule. Others went to California to face more intense con;tpetition in one of the final tune-ups before the Big East Championships. 
T~e Fighting Irish who went to California competed in the Mt. Sac Rel~tys, as well as meets at Pomona College and Long Beach State University Friday through Sunday. 
At Long Beach State, junior Nadia Schmiedt was a close sec­ond in the 400 meter hurdles, with senior Berit Junker following in thind. Schmiedt, who ran in the NcAA outdoor championships last sea~on, was just one-hundredth of a s~cond oft' her best time of the 
Am,erican Errol Williams again shoi\.ved why he is ranked third in the I nation, winning the 110 meter high hurdles in 13.95. 
In the Spartan Invitational in East Lansing, Mich., 
1
the women took first in three events and second in five, with the men also placing second in five events. 
Freshman Carri Lenz had a good showing, win­ning the 400 meter run in 58.18 and coming in sec­ond in 25.88 in the 200 meter dash. 
"I know my times are improving every week," saitl Lenz. "It was a good meet for us to kind of relax and get ready for the Big East meet in two 
we~ks." 
A'lso performing well on the women's side were distance runners Patti Rice, Erin Olson, and Alison Klemmer; who each took second place in the 800 meter run, the 1,500 meter run, and the 3,000 meter run, respectively. Winning the high jump was junior Kelle Saxen, who leaped 5 feet, 5 3/4 inches. Sarah Lopienski and Carrie Gulick captured the top two spots in the 400 meter hurdles. 


Sophomore Chris Cochran ran 47.99 to place sec­ond in the 400 meter run, and his time of 22.06 in the 200 meter run earned him fourth place. 
"I was happy that I got into the 47s," said Cochran. "That showed that I'm getting to where I want to be for the Big East meet, and coming back and doubling in the 200 meter dash and feeling good doing it made me feel better about doubling in those events." 
ARE YOU LESBIAN? GAY? BISEXUAL? QUESTIONING? ARE YOU A FRIEND·OF SOMEONE WHO IS? Campus Ministry's SECOND ANNUAL RETREAT for lesbian, gay, and bisexual undergr~duate students and their friends has been rescheduled. The new date is APRIL 24-25 BE THERE! * Student-led * Student talks * Conversation *Prayer For more information or to register, please call or e-mail: Kate: 1-5242 katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu Mark: 4-19 3 3 mark.f.massoud.l @nd.edu Alyssa: 4-1884 alyssa.l.hellrung.5@nd.edu (Z\MPUSMINISTRY  

'T'T Jr'Jll if';:r'JT'"T'ro. ~PP r II( 1;,~11 . .-.h~.-~ ~ 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 20, I 998 
• MEN's TENNIS 
• NFl 

Irish push Hoosiers White has made his last sack 
Associated Pr•ess lineman in this era. Heggie has 13-year career. He was select­been good for the teams he ed to the Pro Bowl for a record

around the court 
GREEN BAY, Wis. played for and for the commu­12th consecutive time despiteA bad back has done in nity. his bad back that limited both 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Sometimes a team just has to bn the bully. 
Houghing up the weaker Hoosiers 7-0 yesterday, the No. 14 men's tennis team endnd its regu­lar season with a punch. The Irish played the brute by knocking all of their singles matches and two of their doubles matches into the win column. 
"I thought our guys showed a lot of good effort [yesterday]." coach Bob Bayliss said. "I defi­nitely ,thought we were the better tnam. 
Indiana only threatened a fight in doubles, where the Hoosiers won at No. 1 over the Irish duo of Brian Patterson and Jakub Pintrowski. 9-7. 
Patterson and Pietrowski con­tinued to show fatigue by losing their sixth consective match. 
"We need to have a better showing at No. I," Bayliss said. "They lost a close match again. We might need to redefine their rol!~s. and there is the possiblity of switching combinations." 
Doubles at No. 2 and 3 picked up the slack left by the first duo. Danny Hothschild and Vijay Freeman pulled out a 9-7 win whilt~ Hyan Sachire and Matt Horsley continued impressive play with an 8-3 victory. 
Tlw Irish were up to par in sin­gles. not allowing one match to sneak by. Or in Brian Patterson's ease, even one set. 
Thn junior cracked down on the Hoosiers' No. 3 player with a 6-0, 6-0 perfect match. Patterson's quirk victory -his sixth in a row -upped his dual mateh record to IR-4 on the season. 
"Pattnrson absolutely destroyed [Scotti Lippitt," Bayliss said. "He's such an intenst~ competitior. lie deserves an awful lot of credit for staying in the match the whole way and not letting up." 
Patterson's seemingly effortless play set the tone for the rest of the Irish squad, which went on to reel in four mort~ two-set victories. 
Saehire also helped bolster the Irish victory with his usual domi­nance. Banked 20th in hte nation, he overpowered Derek Pope at No. 1, 6-0, 6-2, with ease. The Irish sophomore bumped up his dual match record to 17-4 on the season and his overall singles record to 31-11. 
"Hyan played the same way [as Patterson]." Bayliss said. "[He) played at a high enough level to keep [his! opponent from climbing in." 
The rest of the singles did not allow Indiana much room for advancement either. 
Rothschild, recovering from a foot injury, played a smart match at No. 4 for a 6-2, 6-2 crushing of George McGill. 
Pietrowski also held the I loosiers back by utlizing his net play. The senior ran over Gabriel Mantilla with a 6-1. 6-2 win. 
"Pietrowski was able to make the shots he needed," Bayliss said. "He didn't let the match get away from him. He was in charge from the get go." 
Andy Warford also saw action again after sitting out recent games. With Matt Horsley taking a turn on the bench due to back problems, the junior let his pres­ence be known by defeating Paul Jacobson 6-2, 7-5. 
The match was so good for the Irish, in fact, that their worst match was also a win. 
Erie Enloe struggled in his mid­dle set. but was able to get the bookend wins to overcome Ian Arons, 6-3, 6-7, 6-2. 
"It was the only match where we were really tested," Bayliss Heggie White, one of the great­est players in the history of the NFL. 
The leagun's career sacks leader is retiring because of a bulging disc in his lower back, an injury he incurred while lifting weights last summer. 
''I'm very happy that we did win a Super Bowl while he was here and we came very close to a second one last year," Green Bay Packers coach Mike Holmgren said in making the announcement following the NFL draft on Sunday. 
"He will be missed for a lot of reasons, but in some respects it's time." 
The team said White, 36, who recently was criticized for insensitiv~ remarks in a speech to Wisconsin lawmak­ers, would hold a farewell news conference on Wednesday. 
''I'm sure he wishes he could have gone out a little diffnrent­ly than he did," general man­ager Ron Wolf said. "But he's still going to be recognized as one of the greatest players ever to play in the National Football League and one of the greatest players to play his position." 
White's retirement, while not unexpected, was saluted with sadness. 
''I'm sorry to hear that for the game of football," Indianapolis Colts president Bill Polian said. "Reggie's been clearly, along with Bruce Smith, the dominant defensive 

"Reggie stands out like a beacon in the night. lie's a future Hall of Farner and the NFL will miss him." 
White's arrival in Green Bay in 1993 marked the beginning of the Packers' return to power and its transformation from one of the league's coldest out­posts to a desired destination for scores of other free agents. 
White, who did not return a message from The Associated Press left on his answering machine, had 11 sacks last year, giving him 176 1/2 for his his practice and playing time. 
White told llolmgren soon after the Packers' loss to Denver in the Super Bowl that he wouldn't return to Green Bay for a sixth season. 
Ilolmgren tried to talk his star defensive end out of retirement, however, telling him he'd only have to play on passing downs in 1998. He asked White to wait until the emotions of the loss to the Broncos had waned so that he could make a decision with a clear head. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-­we can special order any book you need! 
Spring Reading Sale! 
20°/o OFF l:VERY TITLE THROUGH MAY 1. 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown South Bend. Open 10-5, Monday-Friday. 
Always discounts for ND/SMCfaculty & students! 
~d."En~pl~~~~~u~.~-------------------------------------~
He let up in the second set but fought hard for the win. lie just needs to develop a greater sense of urgency [after winning the first set)." 
The Irish have little time for development -they head to Miami, Fla., for the Big East championships Thursday through Sunday. 
But with the regular season out of the way, the Irish now have the time to focus on who they want to push around next. 

NEXT TUESDAY, THERE'S MONEY ON THE MENU! 
1st Source Bank Open House April 21 -Morris Inn 11 AM to 2 PM 
Plan a lunchtime visit to our Open House. Enjoy complimentary refreshments while talking one-on­one with experts from 1st Source Bank about our convenient services and the products that can build your financial wealth ... 
INTERNET BANKING • INVESTMENTS • PERSONAL LOANS MoRTGAGEs • NEW AccouNTs 
•sou•ce.
liiiiBank 
t-parinu'Sr-a..r., 
Member FDIC 





GARY LARSON 
opens Up a whole new . can of ,"orms... 
An amiable family of worms. A fair human maiden. A majestic forest with creatures both •endearing and demented. 111\felcome to nature's inner sanctum-Gary Larson style! 
Dig in! 
--~--------~-----.~-------,-------------------,------~ ~~-.--------~--------~ 
Monday, April 20, 1998 The Obser~er • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

Andersen Consulting 
is please~ to announce that the following University of Notre bame and Saint Mary's College graduates have accepted a position with our organization: 

Ritu Agarwalla James Dougherty Joseph A. Marasia 
B.S. Chemical Engineering $.A. Government/CAPP B.S. Chemical Engineering Northbrook San Francisco Atlanta 
Kristen M. Ahasic Deborah Dziekan Stephen Marshall 
B.B.A. Marketing/CAPP B.S. MIS/Marketing B.S. Computer Science 
Chicago f\Jew York Chicago 
Joanna L. Amelio Shannon J. Ewan Adam McEiduff 
B.A. Pre-professional/Psych B.B.A. MIS/French MBA 
Northbrook Chicago New York 
Mary M. Balsley Rita E. Flynn Julie McGill 
B.S. Science-Business B.A. Government/CAPP B.S. Biology 
New York Chicago Chicago 
Lisa Barry Matthew Fuchs Kelly McMahon 
B.S. Science-Business/Psych ~.S. Computer Science B.S. Civil Engineering 
Los Angeles hicago Northbrook 
Michael Bechtel Tlimothy Fusco Christina L. Morgner 
B.A. Government/Anthropology B.S. Mechanical Engineering B.B.A. Finance/Russian 
Chicago Qhicago New York 
Sharon E. Beierle Julie M. Gripka Michael M. Pinheiro 
B.A. Spanish/CAPP ~.S. Biochemistry B.A. Psychology/Philosophy 
Atlanta Chicago San Francisco 
Peter J. Callan s:arah E. Grummer John T. Pusey 
B.S. Computer Science B1.B.A. Accounting B.B.A. Finance/CAPP 
Chicago Chicago San Francisco 
Brian P. Cannavan D!aniel J. Hartman Sarah E. Quehl 
B.S. Computer Science B1.A. Marketing/CAPP B.B.A. Finance 
Kansas City CNcago Chicago 
Karen L. Cardinal Kara M. Hogan Tracie Renze 
B.S. Science-Business B!A. Economics/English B.B.A. Finance/CAPP 
Chicago Chicago Northbrook 
Connie M. Casson Molly J. Holsinger Eric Salas 
B.A. History B1A. Psychology B.A. Finance/CAPP 
Chicago Chicago Chicago 
Sarah H. Catt Joanne Joliet Dominique M. Scheetz 
B.A. Psychology B:S. Chemistry B.B.A. Finance/CAPP 
Chicago Chicago Chicago 
Jennifer C. Cobb Eric P. Kelly Brian Smith 
B.B.A. Finance/History B.1A. Economics/History B.B.A. Finance St. Petersburg C~icago Chicago 
Daniel P. Connolly Christopher J. Kolik Leon D. Stronsky 
B.B.A. MIS B.A. French B.B.A. Accounting/CAPP 
New York Cincinnati Chicago 
Rebecca E. Daulton Mluk D. Koss Theresa Urbanic 
B.B.A. Accounting B.A. Philosophy/CAPP B.A. Philosophy 
San Francisco C~icago Chicago 
Julie Davis A..,anda B. Kostner Anne P. Vales 
B.B.A. Business Administration B.A. Economics/CAPP B.A. English/Communications
Northbrook Chicago Chicago 
Michael C. DePasquale Jeanne M. Laughlin Douglas S. Victor 
B.B.A. Accounting/CAPP B.B.A. Marketing B.B.A. Finance/Japanese
San Francisco Chicago San Francisco 
Michelle De Los Reyes Anthony J. Limjuco Raymond S. Yung 
B.S. Mathematics B.A\. English/CAPP B.B.A. MIS 
San Francisco Chkago Chicago 
Elizabeth Dewey Brian Maguire 
B.A. Government/German B.B.A. Finance/History 
Chicago Chicago 
We would also like to welcome the following Interns this summer: 
Gabriel Cahill William Klish Marie Vu 
B.B.A. Finance/CAPP B.S. Computer Science B.B.A. MIS/Accounting
Chicago Ndrthbrook Chicago 
Sergio De Hoyos Frank Law R. Deanette Weiss 
B.A. Government/CAPP B.A. Government/CAPP B.A. Economics/CAPP
Chicago Chicago Chicago 
Kelly Hanratty 
B.S. Computer Science 
Chicago 

ANDERSEN 
Andersen Consulting is an Equal Opp~rtunity Employer. 
CONSULTING 
·~--~ ~ ------~--~--­
--_....,..-----.--..----------....--..---------~ 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 20, 1998 
Lacrosse 
continued from page 20 

"We weren't executing prop­erly in the first or picking up the ground balls," said Irish co-captain Jimmy Keenan. The All-American midl'ielder blasted a goal from outside tlw attack box in the fourth quartnr for the Notre Dame's seventh and final goal on the day. 
AwarP that the team would !lPIHI to pick up and control the ball morn on offense to get on tlw board. a morn aggres­sive team took to Moose Krause Field for tlw sncond quarter. 
Kevin Higgins \Von the open­ing facp-off of the socond quarlPr whirh he kicked to the Irish attarknrs. where a UMass loosP ball push penalty allowPd NotrP Damo to set up a play. Tlwy madP quick work of tlw Minutemen dPI'ense as freshman Torn Glatzcl. in his second start at attack. got one past goalil' John Kassdakis at 
14:05 from a l>aw Ulrich feed for his lirst rollpgiate goal. 
Tlw Irish controlled most of the first half of the second. working the ball in the attack zone for the quarter's first four minutes. 
"We focused on controlling the ball more after the first quarter." said freshman mid­lielder Chris Young. "We came out playing morn aggressive­ly." 
The Irish offense was able to rattlo off another two shots on goal in thn middle of the sec­ond. with help on a man-up play at 5:45 on a UMass hold­ing call. Kasselakis stopped both of them and managed to clear the ball to set up a Minuteman attack. 
Guski led the charge and hit an open Mike DeiPercio for the only UMass goal of the sceond. giving them a 5-1 lead. DelPcrcio. a co-captain, netted a game-high three goals. 
The seoring in the second ended with Hcvere La Noue's charge of a ground ball at midfield. A drive to the net, a pass to Chris Dusseau and a shot later. the Irish had their second goal of the contest at 2:33. 
"UMass is a big control team. To compete with that, we have to have good, long possessions. which we had gained after the first," said Dusseau. 
The third began much like 
m.,.ve. Out. 8c-4e.dule. 
Notre Dame Stepan Center Basketball Courts 
May 4th-9th May 13th • 16th May 18th 
Lyons hall 
May 6th-9th 


the second, with Glatzel scor­ing on a Ulrich setup, this time from the stick of Dave Ulrich's brother Todd. Two minutes later, Dave got a shot past Kasselakis for an unas­sisted goal to narrow the gap to one goal. at 5-4. 
The tandum of Dusseau and LaNoue struck again, this time with 9:36 in the second, as the Irish tied the game with Dusseau's second of the game. 
Ties were the closest the Irish got in the contest. Notre Dame goals to tie the game at five, six, and seven were all answered by UMass to take a one-goal lead. 
DelPercio's second and third goals of the game gave UMass their sixth and seventh goals of the game. with Stedman Oakey's goal on a Dave Ulrich assist eoming between the two. 
Keenan's goal with 7:01 left in the game on a Burke llayes' pass tied it at seven, but a Minuteman goal just six sec­onds later by midfielder Jeff 
Seals  sealed  the  
Massachusetts' victory.  
The  Irish  had  one  final  

ehance to tie it with a half-a­
minute left but were foiled 
when the UMass 
broke up a Keenan pass in the The Observer/Jeft Hsu 
attack zone. While his teammates head to the locker room, Notre Dame goalie Alex Cade remains on the bench after the 
one-goal loss to Massachusetts.

"We were able to bang in a couple of goals after the first," ,-------------­
said Keenan. "Ground balls 
Have a 

and midfield control were what wo needed to work on in the game that gave us the 
d 

goals. but unfortunately, we 
n1• c e ay

fell a bit short." 
• 
• Llf(fiUARD~ Nf(DfD • 
•• RecSports is currently taking •• 
• •• applications for summer • •• •
• lifeguards at St. Joes Beach . 
•
•
•
•
• Current Lifeguarding, First Aid, 
•
• and Professional Rescuer CPR 
•
•
• Certifications are required . 
•

•
•
•
• Applications can be picked up
•
• at the RecSports Office in the
• 
Rolfs Sports Recreation Center . 

• 
Finals...done. Graduation...done. Packing and shipping...ugh! No problem. Call Mail Boxes Etc. 

St. Mary's College 
LeMans Hall Main Lobby 
May 6th-9th May 15th 
Campus Hours ~~.., of Operation : MAILBOXES ETC. • 
10am-Spm 


Free Pick Up

$1.00 Off 
Please call for appointment. 

UPS Shipping 
Pick up is free, but no discounts will 

(Per Box) 
be accepted. 
277-6245 

Corner of S.R. 23 & Ironwood • 2 Blocks East of N.D. Hours: M-F: 9am-7pm • Sat: 10am-6pm 
ATTENTIOI~ ALL FINANCE CLUB MEMBERS! 
MANDATORY ALL-CLUB MEETING! MONDAY, APRIL 20 6:45 P.M. ROOM L051 COBA
-·Q
.....
.... 
::c 
.... 
m 
.....
..... 
i 
"' 
-0 .... z '-'
....
.....
.... 


CONTACT SHANE ''NI QUESTIONS: 243-5368 

J 
Monday, April 20, 1998 THe Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL XXVI! 



Seeded teams falling 1as Bookstore gets upsetting 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sports Editor 
Upset city, baby. 
For the first time in Bookstore XXVII. several seed­ed teams were given an early exit as the competition picked up on the basketball courts around campus. 
No. 28 seed AA is for Quitters bowed out in the round of 128 after topping Toxic Shock a day earlier in the round of 256. On Saturday, the Wood cousins-Kevin and Chris -scored 11 of the team's 21 points, rolling to a 21-8 victory. 
A day later, AA is For Quiters didn't fare quite as well. The Wood cousins could only account for three baskets and despite Sean Mahoney's eight points, they were "out­muscled" 21-18 by Russell the Mussel, who advances to play in the round of 64. 
Unranked Coast to Coast jumped out to a 9-2 lead against No. 19 Festival Lasagna before completing the upset, 21-17. 
"It was a physical game, but 
DIDQAND 
AENEAS 
directed by Deborah Norin-Kuehn 
A fully-staged production of Henry Purcell's work, the first English opera. 

we were confident that we would win throughout," said Bill Connolly. "Their physical­ness let them back in the game, but we able to pull away and hit some jumpers down the stretch." 
No. 18 Krazy Krackers was also knocked out, while We're Gonna Shoot All Over You upset number 32 seed Serenity Now, 21-17. 
"When it was tied at 17, we hit some clutch shots," said Tom Weiler, whose team scored the final four points of the contest. "Mark Ewald was really huge for us down the stretch." 
Ewald's gigantic block in the closing moments of the game set the tone for the victory. 
"Our crowd with their classy cheers really helped us late in the contest," said Nick Burns. 
Rene Casares scored seven points in the losing effort for Serenity Now. 
Frontrunner Primetime was in prime form over the week­end. On Friday, it held Punitive Avengers to 10 points and followed that victory with a 21-13 win over Finnigan's. 
SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents 

Moreau Center/Little Theatre Friday, May 1st & Sunday, May 3rd • 7:30p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
Mg~Q
I c;~ THE ARTS 
~NOTRE DA.ME, IN 
Number five Malicious 
Prtsecution defeated Two Mo · erately, Two Really, and On Crazy Drunk Guys 21-5. 
"\!Ve would have won if we 
weie sponsored by Nike," said Chris Heid, while Matt Lord insi ted that they got shafted by t e refs. 
N~. 12 B Diddy and the Fam soated to victory behind some sen~sational dunks by Tony Dri er. Although trailing the Cle ·eland Steamers 10-9 mid­way through the contest, B Didldy and the Fam pulled away and coasted to victory. 
M~ke Pitino, son of Boston Cel~ics head coach Rick Pitino, and! his team Poop fell to No. 17 ~onsuming Fire 21-13. 
No. 20 Show Me the Money loolted dominating in their 21­5 victory over We Are Full of Cid~r. In Memory of McConn, thel 15 seed, rolled past Corpplete and Utter Doqlination, 21-7. 
Mlickey's, the second seed, ran~into some trouble against un anked NBT, but finally puled away to a 21-15 victory. Ale Gese, Ryan Healy and Hurj.ter Smith led the way for Mickey's. 
Np. 14 Your Mom, No. 16 Bu~n N' Shoot, No. 20 Show Me !the Money, No. 26 Stir It 
Up,land No. 30 Cabo Wabo all 
ad~nced. 
I one of the better games bet een unseeded teams, he d commissioner Dan Del ney watched his team The De ce Droppers: We'll Drop On on Your Head fall to Five Fin ers of Funk, 21-19. 
S eded teams will continue to ~ee action this afternoon, wh le unranked teams have the"r eye on an upset and ear~ing a spot in the round of 32 \Nhich gets underway this 
we~k. 
I 
I t 
~ 
X 

The Motley Fools del. Caucasian sation The Fabulous Dillon Boys del. Fox Force Five Boys of Winter del. Team 295 NBT del. Latrine II Team 342 del. Serenity Now Res-Life All-Star Drinking Team del. DO Gem and the Hallagrams del. The Shiesty Boys Team 424 del. FT MEAT and the selfish ball handlers del. 5 Dancing Dining Hall Chefs who Like to Toss Salad Primetime del. Punitive Avengers Finnigans del. Team 380 Lost Riders of the Apocalypse del. Maverick and the Nookie Runners Given to Fly del. Big King with Special Sauce Amazing Grace and Chuck del. Prsidential Kneepads Late Comers del. Bullshippers II: Return of the Female Dog Baby's got Sauce II del. Dark Sides Fast Breaking High Men del. Hey Poncho Bookstore.Team.Com del. Sexual Chocolate Bum 'n Shoot del. Five Girls who Suck The AI House of Ski Bunnies del. Sons of Bourbon Yahtzee! del. Team Donnelly The Shockers-we dunk in both baskets del. Beat Them Like a Rented Mule Fighting Wookies IV del. Midnight Express Who shot the Couch del. When you're out of Schlitz, you're out of beer Serpico del. West Side II Cabo Wabo del. Ned's 4-H Tibetan Pre­Slamming .. Hounder 40-Pounders del. 4 Crackers and a Little Diep Chick Nuts...Squirrel Case del. Paula Jones, Monica Lewinsky... Club Confidential del. Team 249 Team 40 del. Tickle Me Gaby, this Time It's Personal The Deuce Droppers: We'll Drop One on Your Head del. Watna Return to the Island Slamhog Rodeo del. 5 Fingers of Funk Hittin' the Kitten del. Categorical Imperative 5 Guys who Prefer Eating Out to the Dining Hall del. Forcible Ostrich Penetration del. Team 55 Team 216 del. Big Head Jeff & the Monsters Pants del. Team 86 Punching Clown del. 64 Slices of American Cheese Militant Wing of the Salvation Army del. Smokers, Midgets, a Dodd Wayne usage and 4 other guys... Cheeseburgers in Paradise del. La Locos II Team 529 del. White House Interns 

Divine Intervention del. The Runnin' Scared Kampuz Vanalz del. Nick Wills Fan Club Hoosier Daddy Spickelmeir del. Team 196 AA is for Quitters del. Toxic Shock God, Beer, Bookstore del. Options without afuture Team 508 del. Doggystyle Mendelssohn's Many Mumbling Mice del. Team 333 Stir It Up del. Team 146 Elmo Slap del. Wood The Shining del. We Prefer Syrup Woo's Warriors del. Velvet Jones Consuming Five del. Poop TCB in a Flash del. MEAT and the Selfish Ball handlers Team 424 del. Gem and the Hallagrams Mad Dawg, Gold Dawg and the pak del. The Shockers -We Dunk It in Both Baskets Bum N' Shoot del. The Sixth Man Yahtzeel del. The AI House of Ski Bunnies Panksmoke del. Team 182 Team 374 del. Ned's Flaming Pie Slammers Five Fingers of Funk del. The Deuce Droppers: We'll Drop One on your Head Mickey's del. NBT Show Me the $del. We are full of Cider Mike Tyson, Marv Albert, and three other guys who bite del. 5 Sponge-Worthy Guys Team 33 del. Kat's Clan It Be a lot Better if you did def. Gary & the Reds The Family Business def. Candyman & Co. Beer, it's not just for breakfast anymore def. 3-Legged Japanese Snow Monkeys... Marv Albert, Mike Tyson and 3 Others who will Eat you Alive del. N.W.O. 2 Hard 2 Handle del. Aero-Haus We Couldn't be and worse even if we had Johnny Mac The Nak def. 15 Bucks Down the Drain In Memory of McConn def. Complete & Utter Domination Squash It def. Chilly-Whippers Buddah del. Cherry Poppin' Daddies Primetime def. Finnigan's Amazing Grace and Chuck def. Hey, Dan, That Girl's on the Phone We 3 Gonna Shoot All Over You del. Res­Life All-Star Drinking Team Captain D-Child and the backdoor fantasy team def. Hounder-40-Pounders Club Confidential del. Team 527 Fast Breaking High Men def. Haggus Chuck Nuts...Squirrels Loose def. Kandis & the Firefighters Stir It Up def. Elmo Slap The Grisled Five def. The Shining Woo's Warriors del. Team 396 Russell the Mussell def. AA is for Quitters 


EARN CASH BY . ,, · DONATING 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$1 500 if you donate alone (first visit) 
+$ soo if you show college I.D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! 
+$1 Ooo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES 
Must be 18 years old; proof of current ad0ress with photo I.D. 

Meeting fQr Notre Dame Lesbian and Gay Stuclents Group 
Tomorrow') Tuesday') April2l') 1998 For time and location of meeting') call: IJ804l 
1 

NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom GaugJi.an') C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise ude') C.S.C. 
AII Meetin s are rivate and confi entiaI. 


Come to:  Hours:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  Tu-F: 9:00-6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  Sat:  8:00-5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 20, 1998 
• Nfl DRAFT 
Philadelphia calls Rossum's name in third round 
No otherND players taken 
in '98 draft 
By JOE CAVATO 
Associate Sports Editor 
Usually on draft day. Chris Berman. MPI Kiper, and other NFL draft analysts can hardly get through a round without running NBC film of graduat­ing Notn~ Dame football play­ers. 
But of the Irish hopefuls this year, Allen Bossum's name was the first and only one uttered. 
The 1998 version of the NFL draft marked the worst show­ing by Notre Dame players since l<J:H. when no players were selected. 
The Philadelphia Eagles used the 24th pick of the third round to select the speedster, but Melvin Dansby. Mike Doughty, Hick Kaczenski and Hon Powlus never got the call that Hossum received Saturday. 
"It was kind of crazy all d a y . " tlw c o r n e r b a e k s a i d about his phone line. 
"Friends. family, NFL learns. 

you  name  it. They  were  all  
calling  to  get  my  take  on  
things," he said.  
So  what  was  his  take  on  

joining former Notre Dame corner Bobby Taylor in the 
Eagles' defensive backfield? 
''I'm just so excited. I'm l1y­ing out there Thursday," Hossum said. "Being from Dallas, I was never a big Eagles fan. but I am now." 
Hossum set the NCAA record for returns-for-touchdowns with 12 {three kiekoff. three punt. and three interception). That game-breaking speed made the Eagles overlook Hossum's height. 
"Philadelphia is going to use me in the return game," he said. "I talkPd to all the coach­es -so many I kind of lost track of' who I was talking to at one point." 
Hossum was forced to play the dreaded waiting game as hn was not sure of his draft status. 
"I thought I might go in the third round, but I wasn't sure." he said. "I know arter the season. I was supposedly a second-round pick. Then I dipped a lot. They found out I was 5-foot-7 and not 5-foot-9. But e~eryonn knows I have speed. 
Dansby, Doughty, Kaczenski and l'owlus had to play the waiting game through yester­day as well, but none got the c:all. 
Dansby's health and 5.4 time in the 40-yard dash, the sec­ond slowest among the top 50 defensive tackles, were the only things making scouts and eoaches wpary of drafting the 6-foot-3, 285 pou•nder. "The Beast" turned in a remarkable snason becoming the flrst Irish lineman sinee Hoss Browner 20 years a go to tally more than 100 tackles in a season. But knee surgery in February 1997 limited the amount of lime Dansby was able to spend on the practice fiPld. 
"I know I've got a bad track record with injuries, but I've played with pain." Dansby said. I've had adversity, but I've faeed it." 
The fact that Dansby or his elassmates were not selected does not mean that they will 
not don NFL uniforms next year. Since the NFL shortened the draft from 12 rounds to seven. more and more players are being picked up as undrafted free agents, which is where some of the Domers will likely get their chance to make a squad. 
Usually Notre Dame players are not just hoping to make teams. or to just get drafted. This weekend probably explains the Notre Dame foot­ball team's woes of the 1997 fall weekends. 
For the first time since 1981 and only the second time since 1963. no Irish player was pieked in the first or second round. In the 1990-95 drafts, Notre Dame placed a total of 44 players in the first seven rounds. 
Following the 1993 season when the Irish beat national champion Florida State and flnished second. seven players were taken in the first three rounds. 
Perhaps the biggest story for Notre Dame players was the fact that quarterback Hon Powlus was not selected. 
The first three rounds saw six quarterbacks taken, including signal callers from Eastern Michigan and Middle Tennessee State. Yesterday three more went: Nevada's John Dutton and Boston 
College's M a t t Hasselbeck were taken in the sixth round, and Colorado State's 
M o s e s 
Moreno was picked up in the seventh and final round, but not Powlus. 
The high school All­American coming out of Berwick, P e n n . , slipped out of the draft and will hope to sign on as a free agent. 

Allen Rossum was the one and only Irish player taken in the seven-round NFL draft held
"When 
over the weekend in New York. 


saw him practicing that first year, I really did think I was watching the sec­ond corning of Joe Montana," Dansby said. "The pinpoint passes, the running speed. he had the total paekage." 
Even though he probably would have been drafted, Powlus elected to come back for his fifth year, and another year under the microscope. 
Saint Mary's College presents the Second Annual Shaheen Presidential Lecture 



Bettina (iregory 
<Ill ABC News Correspondent 
<Ill Reporter for World News Tonight, Good Morning America, and Night/ine 
<Ill Chief anchor for ABC Radio's live coverage of special events 
<Ill Won the Ace Cable Award for her biography of Hillary Rodham Clinton 





success 

,t1oR£J.0
· . (.CE~TJfl{_/
Monday, Apnl20, 1998 at 7.30 p.m. FoR THE ARTs Moreau Center • O'laughlin Auditorium .....-'NoTRE DAME, IN 
Admission is FREE. For further information, call 219/284-4626. 


'This is not a knock on him, but when he had the collar­bone injury [in '93] and came back it seemed like something was missing," Dansby said. 
"Something wasn't there. 

Gtravelmore 
Carlson 
Wagonlit
Traver 
....
~ 
AT TRAVELMORE/CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL WE HAVE BEEN SENDING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS AND FACULTY TO EUROPE FOR OVER 25 YEARS. LET OUR EXPERIENCED EUROPEAN SPECIALISTS PLAN YOUR NEXT TlUP TO EUROPE. OUR AGENCY OFFERS; 
STUDEN'T & FACUlTY RATES 
-LOW AIRFARES TO EUROPE-
RAil PASSE~~ ISSUED IN OUR OFFICE 
-WITHJS_QsER.\':ICE_EEE­
DISCOUmD EUROPEAN CAR RENTAlS 
Y/111 canIIArJ/IICithllWOt/dOlliS! 

And he's never been able to get it baek," he added. 
The South Bend Trilwne con­tributed to this report 

1723 S. BEND AVE. PH 219-271-4880 FAX 219-271-4879 NEXT TO THE NDCAMPUS 

At The Copy Shop in the LaFortune Student Center you'll find high-speed copies that no one can match, and you'll get a smile when you walk in the door. Our representatives are easy to approach and eager to help you with all your needs. Our copies are fast and professional, which m1eans you won't have to worry about how they'll look or if you'll get them on time. Our customers always come first. 




(()py SHOP 
LaFortune Student Center Notre Dame, IN 46556 
P one 631-COPY 
'1,1111~ (~f)I1Y Sllf)l1 
J)l~lf..ll'I~II.S llf)'I,II 
•[)I~ 'I,III~SI~! 
Monday-Thursday:7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Quality Copies, 
Quickly!™ 

Copyrrght 1998 • AU A1ghts Reserved 
__,...,..._--~-~-·------~~
_ 
---,~~------·----------~~-------------~--------~--~-------~-------. 
Monday, April 20, 1998 MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
ME !'I ABovT CAMPU 5 PRESENTS 

I/'J 


MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 
harder. Why not enroll your friends in the project? The result will be an increase in income for all of you. 
Taurus: You may feel like someone is trying to block your every move. If you just say what's on your mind, you'll probably get fired. Even if this isn't a work situ­ation, the whole truth could 
MIKE PETERS get you into trouble. 
Gemini: Travel plans may have to be curtailed for a while. There are things to fmish up first. Better check your messages a couple of times today, too. You don't want to miss anything. 
Cancer: Your friends love to come to you for advice, especially for their emotion­al problems. It looks like you have a problem or two of your own. Ask one of these friends for a return on your investment. 
Leo: You and your partner will have to team up if you're going to win this argument. An older person
YOU'RE BEING SARC!\STIC 

has more influence than
WITH YOUR EARS 

either of you would like to admit. Virgo: This is a time of learning, travel, romance,
IT SOUNDS 

excitement, adventure, and SO EXCITING! 
j 
maybe even a forever com­mitment. If you've been writing your novel, now's the time to send it to the publisher. 
Libra: You'd like to stay DILBERT 

I'M GOING TO A VERY IMPORTI\NT CONFERENCE. 

CROSSWORD ACROSS 31 Run, as a meeting
1 Hubert's comic 
32 Not a copy: 

strip wife 
Abbr.

& Segment 
33 Mobil product

10 Title for Nemo 
36 Auto option

or Queeg: Abbr. 
40 One of the

14 Eagle's nest 
Stooges

15 Was in debt 
41 Rim 1& Slick 
42 One who obeys 17 July-August all orders 
period 43 Intimidates 20 On an ocean 45 Actress Black liner and others 21 Slippery ones 46 Erie and Suez 
22"... -evil 49 Engulf " 51 "There Is 23 Neighbor of Nothin' Like Libya 25 Euripides 52 Zoom productions 53 Clerical title 2& Less hard 57 What a cold remedy gives 
29 TV's "The­
The Observer • TODAY page 19 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE Aries: It looks like you
1'5 '111AT IROtv_?l C,tV£ I"'E A 

can't afford to do something
BI?EAk' /Ht5 t~ 7Hc Bf(of/ZE A~E. rou ARE 5o 8EHI/JP -,··­

you want to do with friends. _....-·• 1HE TII"J E 5. ~ It'll force you to work even 
THE BROCHURE SAYS THE GO!\L 15 TO "CRE~TE 
lNTERfl\CTION to..ROU!\10 LOCAL AND GL05AL 1S5UE5 OF THE COMING 
CENTURY" 
) 
~ 

home and snuggle all day.
LL-----1_--~~~==~--__jrL-L-----~--~~~~~~~ 

Bunch" &oGen. Robt.­
short 

-------------10 "A Midsummer
Night's Dream," 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE e.g. ---.--..-.--r:,-, 11 Girl's name meaning "loved" 
~=+=-+;;....::-i 12 Full assemblies 
~=:--:+:,:+.:-+-::; 13 Rookies 18 1492 or 2001 19 Took unfair 

advantage of 24 Two-handed sandwich ~~::-+:--:-! 25 Trio visiting 
Jesus 

..,:,..+;...+-:~+::-~=:::+=+:::-! 2& Con man's con 
..::+:::::+::::+.::+.::+.::+=-+::;-~ 27 Akron's home 
-=+;;+:-=+:~:-F.-F-t:-r.:-t 28 Transit token 
.=.J.::J..:::.l.:::..L::;J..:...:=..J..::;..=..~ 29 Ship's prison 
61 Otherwise 62 Sheep's plaint 63 Foxx of 
"Sanford and Son" 64Wagers 
65 "Mr. Tambourine Man" band, with "the" 
DOWN 
1Cry of success 2 Classic cars 3Coax 4lnstructive 5 Pro vote &Sat 7 Dissatisfied 
soldier BUmps 9 Six-pointers, for 
The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
L. Robbin• 
30 Baptism, for 
one 32 Probability 33 Mock 
34 Shortly 35 Noncoms: Abbr. 
37 Part of CNN 38 Intense exam 39As a rule tl3 Pitched tents 44 Margarine 45Actress 
Deborah 46 Try to please, with "to" 

EUGENIA LAST 
• 
Unfortunately, the odds of getting the day off work are slim. So just make the most of the time you've got with your sweetheart and don't put up a fuss. 
Scorpio: Partnerships will play an important role in your life for the next month or so. You may notice a dif­ference when your own partner gets a little more vocal. He or she might try to tell you what to do for a change. 
SagiUarius: You're doing very well with your career. If you haven't been acquir­ing new skills, you'd better hurry. They could make the difference in whether or not you get the big promotion. 
Capricorn: It looks like travel is the focus of your attention. Romance is prob­ably involved. If that gives you any ideas, start looking at travel brochures. 
Aquarius: The coming phase will be good for work­ing on household matters. To start off, you and a room­mate have something to dis­cuss. It's been in the back of both of your minds for some time. Once you get started, it'll be easy to talk about. 
Pisces: You're feeling more confident, and it's eas­ier for you to make deci­sions. The bad news is that you're under pressure to decide and you don't feel you have quite enough infor­mation yet. You may be right. Get a postponement until tomorrow, if at all pos­sible. 
~7 "The Story of 54 Coffin 
--H" stand 48 No longer 55 Item of anonymous 
wampum 49 Defeat 56 Newts 50 Garfield's 58 Soldier under I predecessor 60-Across 52 Store event 59 Dwindle 

THE OBSERVER: 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 11-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 



You've got it. 
IAnnual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762-1665. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box Q  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
D  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
D  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City _____________ State _______ Zip_________ 
• 


SPORTS 

page 20 Monday, April 20, 1998 
• BASEBALl 

Irish roll over Panthers at Three Riv~ers Stadium 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Sophomore third baseman Brant Ust-shown here last week against Purdue -went 5-for-8 in the Pittsburgh doubleheader, boosting his batting average to .421, and an astounding .590 in Big East games. 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Spores Editor 

En route to its ninth straight victory, the Notre Dame baseball team used a balanced offensive attack and dominating pitching per­formances, sweeping a doubleheader against Big East rival Pittsburgh Saturday with 11-0 and 12-1 wins at Three Rivers Stadium. 
Junior Alex Shilliday (8-2) and Brad Lidge (6­much for the Panthers (8-21, 2-14), who man­aged only four hits in two games. /\II five runs in the Irish firth were unearned, as J . .J. Brock. Jeff Felker and Brant Ust ripped B.BI singles and .lefT Wagner stroked a two-run doubl11. 

In the nightcap, Lidge thrnw 1O:{ pitches, posting a career-best 12 strikeouts in sevnn innings before giving way to Stfwe Szczepanski, followed by Seott Cavey, who retired the side on strikes for a perfect ninth. Four home runs 
higlighted the game, with
2) combined with sopho­

Men's Baseball 
Alec Porzel (4), Dan
mores Scott Cavey and 

Leatherman (7 ). Allen
Steve Szczepanski in a 

Greene (7) and J eft' 
16-inning, 25-strikeout 


12 
Wagner (12) going deep.
effort. The quartet 

Second baseman Todd
allowed only nine 

Frye went 4-for-6, draw­
baserunners, four hits 

l 
ing two walks and laying
and four walks, while 

down his seventh sacrifice
facing on Iy five batters 

bunt in the doubleheader.
over the minimum. 

"Offensively and defen­sively I thought we played a great game," said Shilliday. "Pittsburgh may not be one of the strongest teams in the Big East, but we were really at the top of our game." 
Shilliday tossed a seven-inning one-hitter in the opening game, throwing 79 pitches, to finish with nine Ks. The right bander carried a no-hit­ter into the seventh and final inning, before yielding a bunt single down the first base line. 
"I was extremely pleased with the way I pitched," said Shilliday. "I think it was the best I've thrown in a month. I had the best control of my fastball, and all my pitches seemed to be working. Everything seemed to go pretty well. I didn't fall behind on a lot of batters, so that kept my pitch count down." 
A 14-hit attack by the Irish offense supported Shilliday's strong outing, as every Notre Dame starter recorded a hit. 
Two consecutive live-run innings proved too 
"The team was really excited to play in a major league ballpark," said Frye of the offensive outburst. "And we've been doing a lot of work with our hitting coach, Corey Mee; he's been doing a great job." 
Wagner's homer tied Ust for the team lead. while extending his Irish career record to 39. lie also had 19 career dingers in Big East games, placing Wagner behind Seton Hall's Mo Vaughn (26, 1987-89) and UConn 's Jason Grabowski (21, 1995-97). 
"We've got a great group of guys who love to play baseball," said Frye. "We have tlw tough­est part of our eonfereneo schedule coming up, but we're just looking to continue what we've been doing." 
"Seton IIall, West Virginia and St. John's arn three of the stronger team in tlw conference," said Shilliday. "Wo want to Lake tlw momentum we have, into the upcoming games and mayhn break into the nation's top 25." 
• SOFTBAll 


Irish grab division lead with four weekend wins 
By BILL HART Assistam Spores Editor 
Heading into the final two weeks of n~gular season play, the Fighting l rish softball team had a difficult challenge ahead of it, facing two Big East oppo­rwnts who !"ould det1~rmine the final standings for the upcom­ing confer­ence tour­nanwnt. 
NotrP 
D a m I) 
proved up to the chal­1 o n g P , sweeping


... Sharron
four games to move into solo possession of first place in tho Big East South Division. 
The Irish began their eonfer­enee homnstand on Saturday with a doubleheader against Connocticut. Even though they have traditionally been the 

.. toam to bnat in the North Division. tho Huskies carried an uncharartPristic 5-:i record into Ivy Fi1dd. The Irish took advantage of their opponent's slump, swooping thmn 4-0 and 7-2 to move up further in the 
,.. 
conference standings. 
In the matinee, senior Jenn Giampaolo got the Irish on the board in the first when she scored on an RBI single by freshman Lizzy Lemire. Lemire made it 2-0 in the fourth, lead­ing off with a doublo and scor­ing on an HBI single from Danielle Klayman. The home team went up another run in the fourth when Amy Laboe scored on a double from Sarah Mathison. Finally, senior Kelly Howe scored on a triple by Giampaolo to extend the lead to its final four-run margin. 
In the nightcap, the Irish got to a quiek 2-0 lead by scoring one run each in the first and third. The lluskies tied the game with two runs in the fourth on an HBI single by .!amine Blesoff and a bases­loaded walk by pitcher Melanie Alkire. 
The Irish put the game away in the bottom of the l'ourth, tak­ing advantage of two fielding errors and two walks by UConn's Megan Biddle to score four runs on three hits. 
Alkire pitched five innings to improve to 5-1 on t.he season, 
see SOFTBALL/ page 13 
vs. Michigan at Comstock Park Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
at Toledo (DH) 
Thursday, 3 p.m. vs. Indiana Tuesday, 3:30p.m. 


• MEN's lAcRossE 


ND upended by UMass 
Comeback falls short in 8-7/oss 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Spores Writer 
For a Fighting Irish squad that has fallen short or expectations this season. yesterday's 8-7 loss to 1Oth-ranked Massachusetts was any­thing but a complete dis­appointment. 
The Irish overcame an early 4-0 deficit to tie the grime in the third, only to lose a heartbreaker in the final minutes. 
The third-straight loss 

The Observer/John Daily 
for the Irish places them 

Junior Chris Dusseau goes airborne in front of the Minutemen goal Sunday. 
Dusseau scored twice in Notre Dame's third straight loss. 
7-3 Minutemen, snapping a three-game losing UMass's first came on a the first. Midfieldor .Jeremy

streak, will look to build their 

pickup of an Irish droppnd Guski, attaekman Jason 
record as they take on No. 7 ball in the midfield in which He inzn and mid f'ip ld1~r .Jay

Syracuse next Saturday. 

sophomore attacker Mike Negus all scored on unassist­The Minutemen lived up to Janowicz scored on a feed ed shots in the first to build a 
their name, attacking early 

from the co-captain. midfield­Massaehusetts 4-0 lead. 
and often in the first to build 

er P.G. Massey. at 13:50 of a four-goal lead. 

at Columbia 
Friday, 3 p.m. at Big East Championships 
~ 
~ 
,,M Friday, TBA g, Tennis at Kalamazoo Col. 
Tuesday, 3 p.m. Softball at Albion College 
~ 
\':,--,
q...._, Tuesday, 3:30p.m. 

see LACROSSE/ page I G 
a) •Bookstore Basketball roundup 
see page 17
--=
•• •Eagles draft Rossum in third round 
~ 
see page 18 
~ 









