

THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 42 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Dignitaries dedicate new Dublin study centre 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR A.,.,ociarr N'''" Fdiror 
With a daylong s<~ril's ol' nvnnts -including a leeturn by tlw Irish ambassador to thn U.S:, S(\an O'hUigfnn and an addrPss bv BNtin Ahern, the Irish Taoiseach, or primn minislPr -tlw University of Notre Dame launrlwd its rww aeademie enntor in Dublin on Saturday. 
l.oral!;d at Numlwr S(J St. Stnplwns Gr·een, the K(lough CPntPr is basPCI on tlw top floor ol' the Newman House. 
"Tiw Nnwnutn llousn was a Georgian and Victorian town housn. whieh was bought by IUnivnrsity College Dublin 1 and hnranw tlw loeation ol' the lirst Catholic uni­wrsity in ln•land," said Lao~y llarraka, a Notre Dame junfor studying in Dublin this snnHlStPr. 
C:ardinal .John I!Pnry NPwman found(~d the original Catholir Uniwrsity ol' ln~land, whieh is now known as llniwrsily CoiJPgn Dublin [UCDJ. 
"Tiw most signilkant thing about it. though, is that .lanws .loyen actually studiNI in the same building and nH•ntions it in his 'Portrait ol' tlw Artist as a Young Man,"' said Boh c;Iynn. a Notre Damn junior in the pro­gram. 
.fpsuit priest and pont Cnrard Manley llopkins also liwd and died in tho house. It is currently bning restored to its original <~eorgian form and tours are available, according 'to Ilarraka. 
"Now, with the additional support of Michael Smurfit and Martin Naughton, and in partnership with two great Irish universities, we can legitimately aim to cmate a premiere international vehicle for Irish studies and to engender a gen­uine partnership in teaching and schol­arship with Ireland," said University presi'dent Father Edward Malloy, who oll'crnd a blessing of the center. "Wo sec this as not only an important and worth­while intellectual endeavor, but also as a vital and renewed link between the peo­ple of Ireland and the many more p(~ople of the international Irish diaspora." 
Naughton and Smurlit arc prominent Irish business leaders and bnm~factors of thn program. 
The dedication of the Keough-Notre Dame Study Centre honors Donald and Marilyn Keough, the benefactors for whom both the contnr and the Keough Institute for Irish Studies at NotrH Dame arn namnd . 


Gans addresses toll of abortion 
By JESSICA LOGAN Nrw' Writer 
Olivia Gans, director of' Anwrican Victims of' Abortion, shared her thoughts on the aftermath of' abortion in women's livns with students in the llesburgh Library Auditorium last night. 
Gans, who lwrself has had an ahortiim -some­thing shn callnd "mnchani­cal nqw" -Pncouraged hnr audinnee to reaeh out to WOilHln W h0 h a YO undergorw tlw procedure. 
"I am one of' th(~ motlwrs ol' a child that died as a result of abortion," she said. "[llaving an abortion! was tho most dngrading nxpnrinnce of my life ... You don't !war about this pari. on tho news." 
(;ans' abortion. which happmwd when she was a college student in IIJS I. has lml lwr to devote her lif1~ to waching out to other women who have suJl'p,red through an abortion and its painful aftermath. 
Cians primarily blames sodnty's attitude for llw numbnr of' abortions that take plaen every day. 
"Wn livn in a soeinty wlwrn we have bern told that becoming pregnant is a l'ailuw ... land[ an nnd to possibility," shn nxplainml. "We arn still taught that abortion is a good social problem-solving device." 
Gans condemned the outdatnd view that women who want to have children must sacrifice tlwir intel­lnetual selves. 
"In some ways we are more Victorian than the 

Victorians," she said. 
"[Abortion providers! tell us that the only way to handle an incompre­hensible situation is to throw up your hands and givH up," she said. 
Gans rncallnd hav­ing spokp,n with four differnnt abortion eounsnlors who told her that having an abortion was the only appropriate decision for someone in her situation. 
"Women [who have abortions] are literally sent home with no informa­tion," she said, drawing on her own experience. "What I have leamed comes from the tears." 
The speaker dis­cussed many of the fenlings typieally felt by a woman who has had an abortion. She 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
talked of the sense Olivia Gans, director of American Victims of Abortion, spoke last of isolation that she night to students and faculty in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. 
felt after having a procedure that is often so nnveloped in silence. Drug and alcohol abuse, sexual dysfunction, relationship dysfunction and eating disorders are among many of the prob­lems that follow an abor­tion. 
Gans herself suffered severe depression aftor her abortion and left college for two years. She revealed that 80 percent of women who have abortions suffer from Post Abortion Syndrome and as many as 73 percent of women who have had abortions attempt to commit suicide. 
Gans encouraged stu­dents at Notre Dame to embrace the cause for which she fights. 
"You are the voices that have the capacity to say to the rest of the world 'Why do we tolerate this?'" she said. "With compassion and outrage we can be a catalyst for change." 
Gans ended her talk with a remembrance of her own child, who would have been 17 years old this past September. 

"When you hear my voice, you're hearing the voice of someone you should have been able to get to know," she told her audience. "Each of you can be a voice to the women [in] pain." 
Gans has discussed the effects of abortion afler­math throughout the nation and abroad. 
Her discussion, titled "From Tears to Triumph," was sponsored by ND/SMC Right to Life. 
Student.;.run Web design group starts up 
By ERICA THESING News Writer 
After battling through red tape and a slow start last year, Dome Designs, a student-run, for-profit Web page design group, is open for business. 
Dome Designs, which is a division of the Notre Dame Council on Intornational Business Developmont, boeame an ollkial University busi­ness in .January. The group eonsists of 25 to ;{O people, including four managnrs who oversee all projects. The managers and tmun leaders arn experieneed in Web dnsign and teach other stall' members as the project progresses. 
"We've got a lot of talentnd pnople," said sopho­more manager Kevin Campbell. "We have really skillnd people as team loaders -the mnst skilled people you can find student-wise." 
He explained Dome Designs provides studnnts with both "html" experience and real businnss experience. Although some staff mernbnrs will pursue careers in Web design, Campbnll nmpha­sized that the group includes pnople from a wide variety of interests and programming knowledge. 
"A lot of people lin the group] are definitely going to go into earners in computers," he said. "We have CAPP and MIS, but wn also have biochem majors. We have all sorts of different majors." 
After receiving approval from the University last January, Dome Designs created Wob pages for the Bengal Bouts and the Class of 1998. Campbell felt that the Bengal Bouts page was unique beeauso it featured immediate updates on the pairings, as well as every boxer's photo and statistics. 
"The boxers really got a kick out of that boeausn they got their pictures on the Web," Campbell said. 
Though this information was also available in the printed programs, Campbell said the Web page offered an advantago by allowing the boxers' family and friends to access the photos and pair­

-ing updates from anywhere in the world via the Internet. 
see DESIGNS I page 6 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

My impossible dream job 
This past weekend, as the Irish were once again whooping up on one of those push over service academies, a terrible thing happened. The incident in question concerns the job per­
formance of an usher Dan McDonough at Notre Dame stadi-
Assistant Viewpoint urn. 
Editor A young married couple brought their eight-month-old daughter to the game. No big deal. right'? WRONG! The ticket-taker Nazi promptly blocked the entrance and demanded a ticket for the eight­month-old. Maybe the usher thought: a) the baby was just an average fan and so needed a ticket; b) the baby was actually a sophisticated robot video camera; or c) the baby was deliber­ately trying to make the usher look like a slack­jawed yokel. Talk about anal-retentive. What type of heartless wretch or brain-dead zombie would do such a spineless act'? Note to usher: babies are cute and they can't really disrupt a nice Saturday afternoon the way fish­wielding drunkards can. Speaking of jobs, attention seniors! You are all going to get well-paid, cushy jobs with the University. I know the Arts and Letters majors are paying attention. Seriously though, in a nation where more than 35 million people live in poverty (1 in 7), we should all give thanks for the opportunities that have been afl'orded us. Of course, going to Career and Placement is still about as much fun as having an appendage removed by Dr. Nick Riviera, sans anesthetic. Who ever thought that dropping of a resume could be so complicated? The job search at Notre Dame is all about getting hooked up by connections. Every stu­dent here is bound to do well after graduation because of the Notre Dame network (at least that's what helps me rationalize my student loan debt). With that in mind I have created a top ten list of jobs that I am considering. 
10. Professional Nintendo 64 "Goldeneye" player. 
9. Professional basketball player ... oops. 
8. Victoria's Secret lingerie model (equal opportunity, baby!). 
7. Monday Night Football announcer (I know I'm better than Dierdorf and Boomer.) 
6. Offensive coordinator for the Irish (ouch). 
5. Receive government subsidy/grant to sit at home drinking beer and watching TV. 
4. Off-season conditioning coach for David Wells (see number 5). 
3. Supreme ruler of all Freemason's. 
2. Editor of du Lac. 
1. Homosexual, pro-choice, feminist, right­wing shepherd (the impossible dream). 
Hopefully everyone realizes that the above list is supposed to be humorous. I couldn't live with myself if I had offended any gay, pro­choice, feminist, right-wing shepherds. I'm just getting a little edgy with the pressure of this whole job search bit. I swear that if someone asks me what I plan to do after graduation I will suck my eyes out of my skull with a Hoover and then give myself a donkey punch. 
Perhaps for my first job I could do a stint as the bookstore manager. I'll keep the music sec­tion stocked with illegal bootlegs, charge twice what each book is worth in reality, and laugh when people try to resell the same overpriced books at the end of the semester. 
Maybe I could even line up a job at the stadi­um. How hard can it be to let in every drunk 18 year-old and prevent those damned sneaky infants from entering? Where do I submit my bid? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Tim Logan  Emmert Malloy  
Christine Kraly  Dominic Caruso  
Chris Lawler  Jenn Zatorski  
Sports  Graphics  
Anthony Bianco  Mark Higgins  
Viewpoint  Production  
Eddie Llull  Anthony Bianco  
Lab Tech  
Ernesto Lacayo  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday exc~pr during ~xam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rlu: A!\!'I.Odarcd Pres!\. All reproduction right!'~ are reserved. 
Wednesday, October 28, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 
Research assistant's death considered a suicide 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
Lisitski was a post-doctoral 
A UC Berkeley research assistant researcher in the Molecular and Cell was found hanged in her University Biology Department, according to the Village home in Albany Thursday in neighbor. what police are calling an apparent Lisitski, who was originally from suicide. Russia, had been residing in Israel for 
UC police found Irima Lisitski, 29, at the last seven years before coming to 
7:45 a.m. Thursday at her residence in the United States, the neighbor said. University Village, a university-owned Lisitski had only Jived in University housing complex for married students Village for nine days before she died, and students with dependents. according to UC police Sgt. Howard according to a resident advisor at the 
Police were alerted to the incident by Hickman, who is supervising the inves­village, who wished to remain anony­a neighbor who saw the researcher's tigation. mous. The researcher's neighbor said body through the window, said UC The investigation will not be closed Lisitski had previously stayed in the 
for several weeks because toxicologi­
police Capt. Bill Cooper. By the time U.S. with a friend for a short time she was found, Lisitski had been dead before arriving at the village. 
cal studies still need to be performed, for less than 12 hours, he said. Cooper said. Lisitski had been depressed before At this point, the official cause of Lisitski's family, who live in Haifa. her death due, in part, to the fact that death has not been ruled, said Michael she was in a foreign environment,
Israel, have been contacted, authori­Yost, a supervisor in the Alameda ties announced. according to her neighbor. County coroner's office. But he said A neighbor, who wished to remain "We wish we could have helped the incident is being treated as a sui­anonymous, described Lisitski as her," she said. "She had difficulty cide. "quiet. She had difficulty speaking adjusting. She was very depressed, but There is no indication of foul play; English. She stayed to herself." we had no idea how much." 
• MISSOURI UNIVERSITY  • UNIVERSITY OF UTAH  
Kappa Sigma frat faces rape inquiry  Fire in resident hall a suspected arson  
COLUMBIA, Mo.  SALT LAKE CITY, Utah  
A female MU student was raped this weekend at the  Fire scorched a Van Cott Hall kitchen Sunday morning,  
Kappa Sigma fraternity house, according to Columbia  and the residences may have to pay for the damages. A box  
police reports. The victim called police from University  full of paper was placed on the stove in the first floor of the  
Hospital and Clinics Sunday after being examined by hos­ men's wing. The stove was then turned on and the knobs  
pital staff. Such examinations routinely are used to col­ were removed to insure no one could turn it off. The  
lect physical evidence in rape cases. The victim told  University Police consider the fire an arson. The small fire,  
police she had been forced into having sex by someone at  set at four in the morning, ruined the stove and damaged  
the Kappa Sigma House. Police would not say if they have  the cabinets, wall and ceiling. The Residential Living  
any suspects, but they are actively pursuing the case.  Maintenance Staff had replaced the stove by Monday, and is  
Kappa Sigma President Dan McCarty would not comment  in the process of painting the ceiling and wall. 'The fire is  
on the assault, but the fraternity released the following  very suspicious in nature, with the way the knobs were  
information in a written statement: "Kappa Sigma frater­ removed. It was deliberately set," said Detective Robert  
nity at the University of Missouri has been advised by the  Gardner of the University of Utah Police. Detective Gardner  
university of an investigation based upon allegations by a  has no suspects at this time. "We are not sure how we arc  
university student. The chapter is fully cooperating with  going to pay for it, but when other things have been vandal­ 
the university and all investigating agencies and authori­ ized, like if a chair was ripped up, then it is community dam­ 
ties, and will continue to provide assistance."  age," said Rhonda Uber, director of Van Cott IIall.  
• PRINCETON UNIVERSITY  • STANFORD UNIVERSiTY  
Administrators lead sweatshop ban  New Buddhist Center expands program  
PRINCETON, N.J.  STANFORD, Calif.  
University administrators took an initial step yesterday  The department of East Asian Studies opened a  
toward establishing a code of conduct policy that would  Center for Buddhist Studies last week in the hope or  
attempt to ensure university apparel is not made with  securing the donation or a $2 million endowment for the  
sweatshop labor. Though the university presently has no  program from a Hong Kong foundation. The foundation  
such policy, Vice President for Public Affairs Bob Durkee  has been looking for a program to fund with a strong  
said there could be something in place by the end of the  academic emphasis on Buddhist studies, rather than a  
calendar year that would apply to all Ivy League schools.  purely religious angle. Although Stanford fits that crite­ 
"We're really pushing hard to coine up with some kind of  rion, the foundation wants to see that the university is  
league-wide initiative," Durkee said. The university is also  willing to expand its existing program within the East  
working on a national level with the American Collegiate  Asian Studies Department. "That's why the opening of  
Licensing Association to establish a uniform code by  the center is also an act showing the endowment owners  
which manufacturers would have to commit to not using  the will of Stanford's Buddhism program," said center  
sweatshop labor before they could be licensed to produce  director Bernard Faure. While the center currently  
clothes bearing college logos. "We believe that this is an  receives the $70,000 annual interest from the endow­ 
area where collective action is likely to be what's most  ment, it has not yet been promised the entire $2 million.  
effective," Durkee said. "We'll continue to combine our  The center's budget also includes donations from a for­ 
efforts to develop some kind of national code."  mer Stanford professor given years ago.  

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATlONAL WEATHER The AccuWeatherm forecast for noon, Wednesday, Oct. 28. 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather'" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
.....:....... 
'_.....~-/ 
( 
Wedne$day Thurs¢iay Friday ~ 65 45 



.. ··t;J 
Satur.day ~57 45 
.......-T" .&...&.. ............ C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY 


Pteasure:
43 ® <1> 

High Low Showers Rain T~atorma Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Press 
Aspen 49 20 Honolulu 81 69 Newark 68 52 Baltimore 70 52 Lincoln 67 51 New York 68 55 Boise 51 29 Malibu 69 56 
Phoenix 81 55
Q,Q,Qp~Q I)~ u 
Boston 68 50 Miami 83 70 

Portland 54 42 Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Fargo 60 42 Mobile 84 57 Richmond 73 50 
V1a Associated Press Graph/CsNet 


Wednesday, October 28, 1998 page 3 
' 


omens 
ews 
WOMEN IN POLITICS 

2000 election could be another 'year of the woman' 
By USA MAXBAUER 
Nt·w,Wrirt•r 
Sonl!'tinws IWI'n success conws through dnfnat. 
WaltPr Mondale's I1J84 Demoeratie prnsidential bid faiiPd, hut still m;HII' history beeause his running mate, C;praldirw FPrTaro, was the first woman to run for the nation's virl' pn•sidPncy on a major ticket. 
"I F<•rraro's campaign! rneognized the growing pres­ence of wonwn in tlw coalition," said Sean Savage, pro­li•ssor of J~litical sdmH:e at Saint Mary's Collegn. 
)tight ynars later, IIJIJ2 bPmrnn known as the "Year of tlw Woman," when tlw pnreentage of female senators 
The Observer/Job Turner 

Members of Notre Dame's Student Senate voice their concerns at a meeting. Women hold a minority of elected offices in university government, as seen at the national level. 
jurnpml from two to six. 
llutPvPn with thesl' monumental strides. women eon­linw• to hold a substantial minority of the elednd oflices in this country. Now morl' than a decade after Ferraro's historic run. i\mnriea wondnrs what women are waiting for. 
Savage explained that in every group "there is a cer­tain pool of potontial pmsidential candidates to choose from at any givnn time," induding candidates of differ­ent nationalities and gendnrs. 
"It has taken time for women to move through the pipnline [of Amnriea's governmental system 1." said Saint· Mary's political science professor Patrick Pierce. "Traditionally [womnnl didn't just wake up one morning and decidn to run for U.S. Senate." 
Many factors contribute to women's difliculty in gain­ing snats. Christina Wolbrecht, a Notre Dame govern­ment professor. deserib(~d women's current situation in 
&TI&TITI politics as a dassic case of "supply and demand." The demand is legiti­mate because traditional 
l against women no longer

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:~~~~~~i~~~"feeli ngs of' discrimination 
appear to be true [in tffi~H!!i!!~' :~'I l issues of voting!."Wolbrecht said. "The sup­ply of women functioning in eligible governmental pools are significantly under-represented." The Ameriean govern­mental system also signif­ieantly favors male incum­blmts, aeeording to New York City Council presi­dent Carol Bellany. In her book, "In the Hunning," Bellany said that women have to "grapple with their own ambition to do what most men do natu­rally-try to get ahead." Wolbrecht further nxplained that the U.S. government's slow nam­ing system compounds the problem. "On average, 97 per­eent of incumbents get re-elected, leaving only 3 percent open to new individuals, all of whom will not be women," she said. Boston Globe columnist Ellen Goodman ealculated that if women eould continue earning elected oflices at the 

rate they had in 1988, it would take 345 ynars bdon~ men and women wern nqually rnpresentnd in Congress. 
Studies have shown however, that gender does not impede suceess in government. JBwd Lansing, author of "101 Campaign Tips for WomBn Candidates & their StatTs," said that if more women ran. more women would win but that they have a tnndeney of "waiting to be chosen." 
Lansing noted that only 21 percent of mBn bngin eareers in the statB le!,rislature betwn1m ages 40 and 51J, while 61 percent of women lt~gislators wait until that Jato stage of life to enter politics. 
Looking back to Ferraro's run, Wolbreeht said that winning candidates have always tried to widen their public appeal but that in 1984, Ferraro had a particular novelty appeal as the first woman on a major ticknt. Today, she would not reeeive votes simply because of her gender since the nation has "been there, done that." 
"There is less concern for gender balancing," she said. "We are going to get a woman [president) when she pro­vides a good balance, whatever it may be." 
Pierce agreed that when a woman finally dons appear on a fi·ont ticket, it will be for hnr compotoncy as a leader, not as a novelty sineo "that hurdle was alrnady reached by Ferraro." 
see POLITICS I page 4 

~---~-------..---~------, 
-
' page 4 The Observer • WOMEN'S NEWS Wednesday, October 28, 1998 

Women 
continued from page 3 
for office] are underdogs. We need more awareness in stu­dent government and in the stu­dent body about candidates. Credentials aren't well-known enough, all we see are posters." 
Convincing qualified candi­dates to seek office has also his­torically presented challenges. 
"Female leadership needs to be promoted and solicited because there's not an over­whelming tradition or call for 

Politics 
continued from page 3 
"There is no evidence that [Ferraro] hurt the race, which is a positive message that women do not handicap 
results,"  he  continued.  
"Sometimes no news  is good  
news."  

The lack of women in nation­al offices is disturbing to many political scientists. It is impor­tant for women to have a voice in governmental forums because "elected officials bring unique perspectives to the issues they face," Lansing said. 
She thinks that women in particular bring unique talents to their offices, such as patience and the willingness to compromise. Women also "relate to individual voters on a personal level," she said. 
Since the last presidential election, rumors regarding a female presidential or vice presidential candidate in 2000 have surfaced with Elizabeth Dole's name caught in the storm of speculation. Pierce paralleled Dole's public popu­larity to that of general Colin Powell's. 
that type of leadership at Notre Dame," Davis asserted. 
Said Vodicka, "Women need to take the initiative and not be put back, not be forced to step back. You just hope that you're paving the way." 
THE FUTURE: 

"Student government definite­ly provides a good forum for leadership experience that you can take anywhere in your life," said Nancy Midden, chair of the Saint Mary's Student Academic Council. She cited increased decisiveness, aggressiveness and self-defining possibilities as benefits of leadership experi­
"In a similar way, Dole has built up a persona, a reputa­tion in some sense, outside of politics," Pierce said. 
Neither Savage nor Wolbrecht foresee Dole run­ning for president in 2000. If anyone, Wolbrecht suggests a female Republican following Ferraro's lead. For instance, a Republican leader like New Jersey governor Christine Todd Whitman could balance some­one like former Vice President Dan Quayle on the issue of abortion, she said. 
Savage envisions a female Democrat running at the top of the national ticket. She thinks California senator Dianne Feinstein could balance Gore's election ticket. 
Only time will tell if a woman's name will grace the top ticket in 2000, but "it takes a woman to think women first," according to Sandra Smoley, county supervisor of Sacramento, Calif. 
Barbara Jordan, former U.S. Congresswoman and state leg­islator, captured these senti­ments in her 1977 commence­ment ~ speech at Harvard University. 
She said, "The stakes are too high for government to be a spectator sport." 
ence. stronger sense of who they are "It is definitely important for and what they are capable of, women at college and for Notre Dame may be left with a women in their communities bright future as well. Some cur­after graduation to actively par­rent leaders pointed to a strong,ticipate in le(ldership positions," active group of underclassmen Horvath said. participants in student govern­While male and female lead­ment that could serve to dimin­ers may leave campus with a ish perceptions of female under-
An admissions representative from 



The Catholic University of America 

will give an admissions presentation at The University of Notre Dame, LaFortune Center Foster Room October 30, at 1:00pm. 
~ee Ua ON CnMPUa THUFaDaY & FriDaY, OCTOBer 29 & 30 
Walt Disney Imagineering (WDI) is the master WDI's talented corps of Imagineers is responsible planning, creative development, design, for the creation -from concept initiation engineering, production, project management through installation -of all Disney's resorts, and research subsidiary of The Walt Disney theme parks and attractions, real estate develop­Company. ments, regional entertainment venues and 
cyberspace/new media projects. 
representation. 

"What's really encouraging is being able to see some of the younger student leaders," Vodicka said. "There's a lot of good young leaders in SUB, stu­dent government and HPC, [freshman] and sophomore 
women." 


Columbus School.of Law 
Learn about Walt Disney Imagineering at our 
Information Session Thursday, October 29 3:30pm Center for Continuing Education Room #210-214 
Refreshments will be served. 

(~)AI.'f,'¢>fsHEp Imagineering 
EOE 


L__________.:........:..._____________________~----~--­


Wednesday, October 28, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS 8RIFS 
NATO extends strike threat 
OSTHOZUB, Yugoslavia 
S(•rh forces drew back Tuesday from for­Inl'l" Kosovo batllefronts, holding off the the immediate threat of Ni\TO airstrikes. But th(• alliance n~served tlw right to launch an attack anytinw if tlw situation worsens. To kPI'p up tlw prPssun~ on Yugoslav President Slohodan Milos(~vic:, tlw I (,-nation military allianrn dPridl'd to maintain more than 400 NATO warpl<tnl's on alert, but did not S(1t any nl'w dPadlinPs for airstrikes after thn prlwi­ous one ('Xpired Ttwsday. That continuing thrPat. should hPip guarantee the safdy of hundrPds of thousands of rd'uge1~s. tnrrifled of n~turning homl' unlnss government troops and SPrh poli(~P am lwld back. "We know that l'n~sidl'nt Milos(wir only movns whnn he is prns(Hlt.ed with the eredibln threat of forrl' ... Ni\TO Serrntary-Gnneral Javier Solana told a rwws conference after a 2 1/2­hour llll'«'ling of Ni\TO ambassadors. 
New York Times archives move to University of Texas 
i\USTIN 
Strappml for pnople and space, The New York Times is giving four tractor-trailers worth of tlw first draft of history -its 22 mil­lion dips from 1908 to 1989 -to the University of Texas Cnntl'r for ;\mnrican I listory. "H rep­rnsnnts an important icon of nnwspaper histo­ry and tlu~ way newspapers used to work lH'f(u·e llw romputer age,'" said center director Don Carleton. The center already has the archives of the now-defunct New York I lnrald Tribune and llw Nnw York Journal-American and wntributions from the "CBS Evening News" during the Walter Cronkite era. "It's beconw tlw prineipal center for journalistic archivns," said Arthur Gnlb, president of the NPw York Tinws Foundation and a former managing editor of the newspaper. 
New government in Italy to be led by former Communists 
HOME The Italian s(~nate gave its approval Ttwsday to the nnw government of Massimo J>';\lnma, granting l'arlianwnt's linal clear­anc•~ to Italy's first administration to be led by liu·nwr Communists. D'i\lmna's coalition won Tunsday's Snnate vow of conlidence by 188­116 with onP abstPntion. The margin was about as comi(Jrlahle as last wnnk's votn in the Chamber of J>nputins, whom it was :n3-28 I with tim·•~ abshmtions. "Now, we must get to work." said D';\)mna, who went to Parliament to watch Ttu~sday's vote. D'i\lmna's coalition indudt~s ex-Christian Dmnocrats from the pre­vious, cnnter-loft coalition of Homano Prorli but thn main forcn comes from fmmer com­
munists like himsnlf. There also are the first Communist Cabinot ministers since 1947. 

• S&P 500: Composite1065.34 Volume: -6.98 76~.680,000
8,366.84 
VOLUME LEADERS 
ccwuu 
.llQ.lJL_ _ 'L...J.,;IIAN\it $ CI!AN(j!: .!•RICE 
·-­
DELL ('OMPUTI!:R DELL n/c n/c 62 .so PARAMETRIC E:C.::H PMTf' +9 '2~ -+ l. 31~') 15.5 ~Y01ii::'\T TF.CH SVQT -JS .01 -0 .128R '40625 •'ISCo SYSTF.M!> csco ·1.02 -0.6250 60.75 L'JTWROUI> INC CCI -6.07 -2.Rl25 43 .s MJ('P'''~OfT HSFT ~ l. ';2 -1.6250 105.4375 IN1'!1. CO~P INTC 1. RJ ·1. 6250 87.1125 A.Mt:J(ICA ON!. IN~: AOL ·0 .10 -0.1250 120.875 eoMPAO riiMPUTER CPO -0.85 -0.2500 29.25 'iPDR ,.v -O.SR ·0. 6:250 107 .oo 
• HONDURAS 

ASSOCIATED PHESS 
LA CEIBA 

Hurricane Mitch cut through the western Caribbean on Tuesday, pummeling coastal Honduras and Belize with driving rain and fierce winds that snapped trees and sent thousands of people fleeing for higher ground. Two storm-related deaths were reported. 
Honduran President Carlos Flores Facusse declared the highest state of alert and sent in troops to evacu­ate thousands of people from vil­lages on the sparsely populated coast. Thousands more made their way to safer ground on their own. 
Most of the population of Belize City fled inland in cars and govern­ment buses, while tourists rushed to find ways out of the Mexican resorts of Cancun and Cozumel, where the storm is expected to hit by the end of the week. 
;\t 4 p.m. EST, Mitch was about 60 miles north of Honduras and moving west-southwest -roughly parallel to the coast -at 6 miles per hour. Its winds dropped from 180 miles per hour to near 155 miles per hour, reducing Mitch to a Category 4 hur­ricane, one category below the most powerful. But the 350-mile-wide storm remained very powerful -and dangerous. 
Mitch's slow speed made the hur­ricane's path especially unpre­dictable, forecasters said. 
Earlier in the day, when Mitch's 180 mile per hour winds made it a Category 5 storm, the U.S. National Weather Service said only three Atlantic storms were stronger ­Gilbert in 1988, ;\lien in 1980 and the Labor Day hurricane of 1935. 
Strong winds bent palm trees along the Honduran coast Tuesday, and heavy rain caused at least four rivers to overflow their banks. 
The entire coast of Honduras was under a hurricane warning, and up to 20 inches of rain was forecast in mountainous areas. 
In La Ceiba, on the western Honduran coast, residents fled to shelters set up in schools and fire stations on higher ground. The area has the sea to the north, the Cangrejal River to the east and a creek to the west. 
Fisherman Manuel Padilla said he wanted to evacuate with his three children but authorities had not told him where the shelters were locat­ed. 
"Nobody has come to see us," he complained. "They've forgotten us." 
Still, hundreds of people waded through knee-deep waters to safety. ;\t one fire station sholter, about 150 people huddled in the damp, with no dry blankets or other pro­tection. Some brought pets, inelud­ing live parrots. 
Blanca i\lmeida Hamirez, 22, said she and her threo children fled (>.arly Tuesday when water began to senp into her wooden housn. 
"The wood is all rottnn inside," she said. "I couldn't stay any longer." 
The head of tho Honduran armed forces, General Mario Ilung Pacheco, said 5,000 soldiers were deployed to help victims of the storm. 
Clinton signs Head Start bill 
AssocJATEO PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
President Clinton signed legislation Tuesday direct~ ing a greater portion of federal Head Start money be used to improve quality in the popular preschool pro­gram rather than to expand enrollment. 
The law also creates a five-year test program allow­ing some 50,000 low-income families to save -with every dollar matched by the federal government-for a first home, college, or business startup. The so-called individual development accounts come with a $125 million price tag. 
Clinton put his signature on the bill in a closed-door afternoon ceremony In the Oval Office. 
Under a new formula written into the law, 60 per­cent of new money appropriated to Head Start would go to imptoving quality in the program that prepares children from low-income families to start school. 
"We must ensure that all children enrolled in Head Start receive high quality educational services before continuing with unchecked expansion of the program," said the House Education C\)mmittee chairman, Rep. Bill Goodling, (R-Pa}. 

Previous rules directed 75 percent of any new Head Start money to adding more children while 25 percent was used to improve quality. About 800,000 children now receive benefits from the preschool program, which is newly authorized for $35 billion ovet· five years. 
The act also authorizes some $2 billion a year for the Low-Income Energy Assistance Program, which escaped the aim of Republican budget-cutters due to support from a coalition of Democrats and Hepublicans from Northeast and Midwest states where winter heat· ing can be a serious problem for the poor. The pro­gram provides aid to an estimated 4.3 million families. 
The measure also expands Early Head Start, whieh provides services for chlldren up to age 3. and ttu~ir families, and oxtends the Community Services Block Grant Act, which helps states and organizations with economic development and social services. 

The Observer • NEWS 


1-lume was among the digni-Castle. The castle was the seat taries who took part in the of British rule in Ireland until dedication. Hume received the 1922. It remains one of the Notre Dame Award in 1996 focal points of the city and the for his efforts to bring about site of many official state rune­lasting peace in Northern tions. Ireland. "Mr. Keough delivered the 
"The ceremonies closed with best line when he said 'What a a rendition of 'Notre Dame, sacrifice it is for these stu­Our Mother' where all the stu-dents to come over to Ireland dents locked up and swayed and have to eat in Dublin while singing, even though no Castle,'" Glynn said. one else in the room knew "I had a wonderful time at what we were doing," said the dedication. I was able to Glynn. meet and talk to a lot of the 
"Thanks to the. magnificent administration of Notre Dame generosity of Don Keough, that I would never have had who gave it life as well as an the opportunity to meet other­identity, and to the brilliant wise,'' Harraka said. "I also leadership of Seamus Deane, enjoyed the speakers. who, together with a team of "Unlike being at a dedica­exceptional scholar-teachers, tion of a dorm and being one has given it distinction as well of 300 students, I was one of as substance, the Keough 30." Institute in a very short time Glynn was also pleased to has created a truly extraordi-have been on the Dublin pro­nary reputation in Irish stud-gram at the time of the dedi­ies,'' said Malloy. cation. 
Kevin Whelan, a preeminent "I may never get the chance 
social historian and leading to visit Dublin Castle as a 
member of the Irish academy, guest and be treated so well. 
is the Michael Smurfit Director Plus it allowed us to personal­
of the Keough Centre. The ly thank the Keough's who 
program has some 70 Notre made all of this possible for 
Dame students enrolled this us." 


The CANDAX McNair Program Announces the 1998-99 
FINAL RECRUITMENT MEETING WITH PROF. MARIO BORELLI 
________~(D:.;e:.:a:.;;d::l:.:.in:;e~for Application: November 6) 
FOR STUDENTS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN GRADUATE STUDIES 
AND WHO ARE EITHER 
FIRST GENERATION COLLEGE STUDENTS FROM LOW INCOME FAMILIES 
(ALL ETHNIC BACKGROUNDS) 
OR 

AFRICAN AMERICAN, HISPANIC NATIVE AMERICAN 
ON  WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 281998  
AT  6:00 PM (TO  7:00 PM)  
IN  ROOM  116 O'SHAUGHNESSY  

ALL ELIGIBLE STUDENTS ARE WELCOME Refreshments after the Meeting 


with special guest 
ev96 
THE RULES: 
1. 
Thursday (first day of sale) for ND/SMC/HC only. 

2. 
Tickets are $18 with avalid student 10. 

3. 
Two tickets may be purchased per ID; two IDs per person. 

4. 
Tickets go on sale at 9AM at LaFortune Info Desk. 

5. 
Tickets, if any remain, for the general public go on sale Friday, October 30 at LaFortune Info Desk. 

6. 
The concert is Wednesday, November 11 at Stepan Center. 


another concert event brought to you by 

---__...,._,...----....._...,.------~ us • 
page 6 
year for a semester or year of study, and that number should 
Dublin 
rise to 100 by the year 2000. 
continued from page 1 The students are housed -----------withboth UCD and Trinity stu­are named. dents and are enrolled in 
Donald Keough is chairman courses at both institutions. In of the board of the New York addition, Notre Dame courses Investment banking firm, in disciplines such as philoso­Allen & Company phy and theology are taught at Incorporated. and a Life the Keough Centre, and it is Trustee of Notre Dame. planned eventually to open Marilyn Keough was awarded these courses to UCD and an honorary degree by the Trinity students. University at the ceremony. "In my opinion, the dinner 
Honorary degrees were also was the highlight of the bestowed upon Ahern, night," Glynn said. The dedi­Naughton and Smurfit. Nobel cation concluded with a recep­Peace Prize winner John tion and dinner in Dublin 
Designs 
continued from page 1 
Besides benefiting its employ­ees with design and business experience, Dome Designs also benefits its clients by offering its services at a lower cost than anyone else, Campbell said. 
"We're way cheaper than any­one else because we're student labor and the University will only let you charge so much," he said. "It's pretty cheap for a Web page making business, but then again we don't have a lot of overhead." 

While Campbell couldn't dis­cuss the specific prices of pro­jects, he explained that the cost depends on what the client fea­tures on the page. Certain fea­tures, such as Java Script and search engines, cost more, he said. 
Dome Designs is currently working on proposals for the chemistry department of chem­istry and some administration projects. 
The Bengal Bouts and Class ol' 1998 pages can be viewed at the Dome Design home page at www.nd.edu/-ddesigns. 
TICKETS ON SALE 



----..

~~------~~----~-~ 
-

Wednesday, October 28, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
Students paired with local kids as Big Brother /Sisters 

THE TIGER LILLIE$ The Brothel To The Cemetery 

By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
A"i . .r;~nr News Ediror 
For sophomore Matt Koop, !wing a member of tlw Big Brotlwrs and Big Sistl\rS pro­gram was not a new concept when hn canw to Notre Damn. 
"I was involv1\d in the program in high school," Koop said. "Wiwn I got to Notre Damn, I sought out the program again hnt·.ause it had !wen such a growing experience for me in high srhool." 
Now, as vice prnsident of the Big Brothers and Big Sisters pro­gram, Koop is hoping that other students will be able to hav1~ the same positive experience he has had. 
The program, which pairs stu­dr.nts with children who lack a mother, father or adult role model in their life, consists of three different programs that involve various levels of time commitment. 
The core program is the most popular, according to Koop; it requires the most time commit­ment participants must have a car, he said. 
"This is the program people am most familiar with," he said. "It pairs up the student with a child who doesn't have a rnspectable mother or father fig­urn. You meet with the kid every other week or once a month in a one-on-one situation." 
Activities may include going bowling or to the movies, Koop said. 
The school mentor program 


Is This Real? 
ICONOLINE CRUSH The Devil You Know 
ZIBRAHIAD Waite Of Mind 

THI Y·ROYS All About Town 

Sale dates: Oct. 25-Nov. 7, 1998. 
requires a weekly commitment "Being a big brother has bnen from students. Participants leave an eye-opening experience !for from campus once a week and mel." he said. "It gets you out meet with children from loeal into the real world, away from schools during the kids' luneh or campus, and IHts you see how recess hours. differently people are living only 
"The time two blocks we get to away. spend with "You sen
'IT GETS YOU OUT INTO THE 
the kids how your lit­might involve REAL WORLD, AWAY FROM tle brother or sister is living
helping with CAMPUS AND LETS YOU SEE HOW 
self esteem, and that confidence DIFFERENT PEOPLE ARE LIVING many times they don't
building, or ONLY TWO BLOCKS AWAY.' maybe even have the tutoring," samn hopes Koop said. MArr KooP and dreams The time PROGRAM VICE PRES/DENT that you did spent with growing up." the kids allows them to see an Although the point of the pro­example of a good person and a gram is to show the student's lit­respectable role model, he said. tle sibling ways to live responsi­For a student who isn't able to bly and how doing well in school commit a lot of time, the helping pays oil'. it is much more than it 
hands program is another appears to be on the surface, option. Once a month, all the Koop said. members of the Big Brothers and "The program has a lot to oll'er 
Big Sisters program meet for a the Big Brother himself'," he said. group event such as a bowling or "I can see that I've grown a lot costume party. Students who through my involvement." attend can be paired up with two Students interested in partic­
or three kids who don't have a ipating in the Big Brothers and Big Brother or Big Sister. Big Sisters club will have an 
Koop said the program benefit­informational meeting in the ed more than just his little broth-Centnr for Social Concerns ollice er. today at 6:30 p.m. 

Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka (219) 271-0696 
Select titles not available on cassette. 


seeing results of a student survey; RHA p . Gma Guerreso told Board of Governance members last 
"Basically, the results of the survey pointed to the fB;ct ~hat students want quiet hours on the w~eken~ to start m~d~ught instead of 10 p.m. al)d end at lR;;.~~~t.inst a.m+·:· Guerreso said. •·· ·.·.. ... •rl"H"'. ·· ·· 
In other BOG news; the.Student Activities Boar wlllhave.a Halloween party for the campus on Thursday from 7"9 p.m. tn Haggar. 
kThere will be bobbing for applesf prizes for .th~ .best cos~ tumes. lots of great food and munchi~s and last•• b~tP:ot least. the solution to the murder mystery;•• saidJanetHorvat1t.SAB 
president. · · ···· 
Williams speaks about alcoholism 
By RACHEL HOPF with alcohol and cocaine," he News Writer said. His disease prevented him 
Paul Williams is known as an from morally committing to his accomplished lyricist, compos­wife and children, and he used er and actor -but through all alcohol more and more to avoid those achievements, Williams "living life on life's terms. 
battled alco­holism and drug abuse. 
The humani­tarian shared insights from 
his recovery at 
his presentation last night at Washington Hall, part of National Collegiate 
'ICOULD MEDICATE WHAT 
WAS GOING ON AND THE TERROR I FELT WITH ALC~ HOL AND COCAINE.' 
PAUL WILLIAMS LYRICIST, COMPOSER AND ACTOR 
"I was t 0 X i C , " Williams said. "I hurt peo~ pie." 
During a blackout in 1 9 8 9 ' Williams made a phone
call asking for help and sub~ sequently 

Alcohol Awareness Week. 
Williams became familiar with alcohol at an early age, watching his father drink daily with friends and coworkers. He vividly recalls the morning when his father drove to Cincinnati for a Cleveland Indians game but was too drunk to realize his mistake. 
His father was killed in an alcohol-related car accident when Williams was 13, and the boy turned to alcohol to relieve his anxieties. 
"I could medicate what was going on and the terror I felt entered treatment. Now, at age 58, he is a licensed drug reba~ bilitation counselor and has been sober for nine years. 
Williams, who has been awarded a Grammy, Golden Globe and an Academy Award, is currently portraying an alco~ holic on The Bold and The Beautiful. 
"Sober experience has been extremely empowering for me," he said. Through treatment, he continued, he has learned to be open and honest with others, and he has gained a sense of safety and community. 
Thank you for reading 
The Observer. 
Ifyou've got 
News, call us 
at 1-5323 
NE'v'S Wednesday, October 28, 1998
The Observer • ,w · 

Maciariello: Obey the Golden Rule 
By MAGGY TINUCCI News Writer 
Building a relationship based on values of respect and trust with customers and employe.es can be a route to business suc­cess, said Joseph Maciariello in his lecture yesterday, which was sponsored by Students for Responsible Business. 
To illuminate his points, Maciariello focused on the Cleveland-based Lincoln Electric Company. Lincoln has achieved abnormal returns and remains the highest-paying company in the area. In 1996, the average income for a single male in Cleveland was $29,500. Lincoln was able to pay its workers $62,000. 
"Lincoln Electric Company has achieved over 100 years of suc­cess by following the most basic of ideas applied to the customer, the employee, and tho share­holder, that being the golden rule which dictates a definite order of values that must be fol­lowed to achieve optimum results," he said. 
"The key to Lincoln Electric Company, the ideas at the heart and core of the company, is not politically correct," said Maciariello, who is a Horton pro­fessor of management at the Drucker Center at Claremont University. 
"They put an emphasis on their order of values, which is the customer, the employees, and the shareholders," he added. "This makes them the best man­ufacturing company in the world. They are multinational and far from arrogant." 
Other companies have not found the same success as Lincoln because they have failed to view their management sys­tem as ·a "mutually reinforcing" set of systems, he said. Maciariello defines a manage­ment system as an array of inter­acting and interrelated activities and practices of management. 
"Philosophy and values is 


where the key can be found," he said. 
The lecturer pinpointed sever­al relational vari­ables of Lincoln's management sys­tem that manifest themselves within the role of the golden rule. 
"They put the company in place of the customer and the employer and base policy on what their greatest needs are. The trust variable is unde­niable," Maciariello said. 
When the cus­tomer and share­holders exist in a cooperative man­ner, the cost of doing business is very low, he said. 
Conflict man­agement also plays a vital role, according to Maciariello. The average business Hsu gets torn apart Joseph Maciariello discussed the golden r.ule and and collapses ethical business practices at a lecture last n1ght. 
after 40 year~ . company, which naturally leads because the busmess IS run by to success said Maciariello. humans, who he said exist at the The for~al relationships on the 
bas.e of confli?t. " side of powerful leadership and 
Lmcoln believes that when all the more informal relationships i~ said and done, it. is w.hat i~ as defined through tho relational nght, not who IS nght, variables are mutually support­Maciarie~lo said. . . ivo, giving Lincoln a unique edge, 
Commitment IS Important to according to Maciariello. This Li~coln's success as well. . support naturally shows itself by 
You want people committed passing the surplus on to the to the goals of the organization customer. and must weld the needs of the "While Lincoln Electrical i~div!du~.l with ~hose of the orga-Company is not a religious com­mzatwn, he sard. . . pany, it just happened to be per-
Another factor contnbutmg to petuated by the golden rule," he t~e abo~e ave.rage ~eturn rates of said, pointing out that the results Lmcoln IS thmr des1re to create a are at odds with the norm in the learning organization. This phi-United States but that Lincoln losophy is mutually reinforced remains at the top in Cleveland. 
throughout all aspects of the 

The Diversity Program of the College of Business Administration Presents a Panel Discussion 
Women in Law: A Unique Perspective on the Justice System 
Panelists 
•Kathleen Brickley, Barnes & Thornburg 
•Aladean 
Derose, Deputy City Attorney 

•
Patricia Hackett, Barnes & Thornburg 


•Greta Roemer Lewis, Roemer & Mintz 
Facilitator: Margot O'Brien, Instructor ofBusiness Law 
Specialty Areas 
•Family Law 

•Sexual/Unlawful 
Harassment 

•
Employment Discrimination 


•Health care Law 

•Medical 
Malpractice 

•Tax 
& Estate Planning 



•Product Liability 
Date: Wednesday, October 28, 1998 Time: 4:00 to 5:30p.m. Place: jordan Auditorium, COBA 



Wednesday, October 28, 1998 
The Observer • NEWS 
page 9 

• CORRECTION  • SENATE PREVIEW  body vice president Andrea Selak.  
A quotation in the Kids Corporation article of yester­day's issue of The Observer was incorrectly attributed to Bridget McMahon. The remark, which began with "It's such an awflsorne program," was a statement of Jennifer Wejman. The Obser11er regrets the error.  Topping the agenda for today's Student Senate meeting: • An order asking the Office of the President to implement "life skills" workshops for stu­dents. The workshops would tackle several real-world topics, -such as "how to do tax returns," according to student  • Russell Kitchner, director of Career and Placement, will have a question-and-answer session at the meeting. ' All Student Senate meetings are open to any interested stu­dents. The senate meets at 6:30 p.m. in the Notre Dame Room on the third floor of LaFortune Student Center.  


Earn one credit 

SOCIAL 

while learning in a city ... continue the tradition coNcERNs 

The Urban Plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the Urban Plunge. As a participant, you will he able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, St. Mary's. and Holy Cross students. 
Missy Byerly  287-5496  
Monica Hlavac  634-0754  
Clare Felton  634-3801  
Last info  Kerrie Johnson  634-1050  
session on 1112  Rebecca Mitsch  634-4120  We are happy  
at 9:00pm in the  Christine Nardi  247-0738  to answer your  
esc  Colleen O'Keefe  634-3704  questions  
Kelly VanOverbeke  243-8206  
Suzy Penny  634-1535  
Yvette Piggush  634-4055  
Jamiko Rose  634-1415  
Brian Wolford  634-4792  

For additional information, contact the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc 
Application Deadline-Friday, November 6 
Safety campaigns lower traffic fatalities 
Associated Press 
red-light runners, as well as the benefit of programs such 
WASHINGTON as the institution of graduatedThe government is crediting driver's licenses. 
public safety campaigns with Much of the work has come 
pushing the highway death 
in the form of human-interest rate to an all-time low last advertising campaigns, such year. 
as haunting family videos of
Traffic accidents killed 
the victims of drunken driving41,967 people in 1997. Since crashes. 
people drove nearly 2.6 billion 
"I think what you're seeing
miles, the death ratll was 1.6 
is [thatl rnally putting the 
per 100 million miles traveled, 
human face on this works,"
the National Highway Traffic said Martinez, an emcrgHncySafety Administration said. 
room doctor by trade. 
Although the number of 
or those who were killed last
fatalities has been lower in year, 21,989 died in passenger some other years, the higher car crashes. Anotlwr 10,244mileage held down the rate, died in light truck crashes,
the lowest since NI-ITSA start­
while 2,106 were killed in
ed keeping statistics 30 years motorcycle crashes. 
ago. 

In 1997, 5,307 deaths Traffic accidents killed involved pedestrians, while 
42,085 people in 1996, for a 
813 involved cyclists. All 
rate of 1. 7 deaths per 100 mil­except for the light truck andlion miles. 
cyclist deaths represented
Dr. Ricardo Martinez, the 
declines fmm 1996. 

agency's director, said 
Meanwhile, there were 2.3R 
Tuesday the country is start­million people injured in car 
ing to see the results of a accidents last year, while 
coordinated effort to crack another 77,000 pedestrians
down on drunken drivers and 
were injured. Inspired Minds Wanted. 
Where you work should be a place that inspires the mind. Imagine that. Visit www.EDS-Imagine-IT. com and ask yourself, 
n ~~ ~.u
Jnspzre(ij)s 
W®llillf 1

II 
A more productive way of working 
EDS & the EDS logo are registered marks of Electronic Data Systems Corporation. EllS is an equal opportunity employer. m/1/v/u. © 1998 Electronic Data Systems Corporation. All right~ rcst-r\·ec.J. 
Jfl~D~~ I ~ 
It's the weekend... jim~
Y, It's time to get ~· 
~ 
a wit~ 
~ 

Walsh Wild Weekend 

~ 
Friday, October 30 4-6 pm 
·:_ 
Outside of Rec:kers 
'\ 
Float Judging 
\ 1 ) 
r .
ill~ R l @ 5 pm~~=f-~p d
~; ;; ~~ ara e t:o JA[[ .. ' 
,tQ 0: M~ II ' 
!a g @5:30pm ' 
' 

r~ IW r! i 
' 
VIEWPOINT 
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (2 I9) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EmTOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR . ........ Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Bretr Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag CONTROl.l.ER .................................... Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ....................... Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhe independem neWspaper published by rhe studems of"the Universiry ofNone Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. h does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned edirorials represent the opinion of rhe majority ofthe Edi1or-in-Chief, Managing Ediror, Assistant Managing Editor and depanment editors. Commentaries, leners and columns presen1 rhe views ofthe aUihors, and not necessarily rho~ ofThe: Ob~rvc:r. Viewpoinr space: is available to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and ro all readers. The: free: expression ofvarying opinions through lc:uc:rs is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Genoral Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• AWAKENINGS 

Oh Wisconsin! American Politics' Last Best Chance 
On Monday night I watched about 20 minutes of a debate between the can­didates for Governor in Massachusetts. 
J.P. Cooney 
I've never seen such a display of immaturity in my life. The two of them lacked even the slightest civility. They repeatedly spoke out of turn and brandished each other a liar, hypocrite and egoist. If I were a parent of young children I probably would have used the V-chip to block out C-Span during that hour. 
Unfortunately, Massachusetts is not alone. Many of the '98 contests have grown increasingly negative as Election Day approaches. In fact, the candidates are mudslinging in near­mythic proportions. In so doing, Democrats hope to create a baeklash against the Hepublican leadership's "partisan" handling of the impeach­ment proeess, while Republieans wish to disgust Democratic loyalists so that they don't go to the polls. 
What a sad state our democracy is in. It used to be that electoral politics used American idealism as its battle­ground. Parties and candidates waged war on the basis of the ideals articu­lated in the Declaration of Independence and synthesized into law in the Constitution. The victor was the candidate seen as the greater defender of the Constitution. Elections were framed around the tenets of what Gunnar Myrdal termed, "the American Creed:" a love of liberty, freedom, equality and the rule of law. 
The reason for this change has much to do with the age of America. Up until the Civil War, political conflict wrested on the Constitution because the politieal actors were the very ones who founded the document. Politicians in the first half of the 19th century were Constitutional Characters -men whose agenda revolved around articulating an excep­tional form of democratic government for a young nation. The result was an electoral process based on at least 
some semblance of ideals. 
Political contests following the Civil War revolved around the re-articulation of the American Creed to include out­groups, specifically blacks and women. During the Progressive Era TR relied on a Constitutional grounding to halt monopolization. FOR fell back on Constitutional 
A
merican politics was once the struggle between ideals and the capacity of institutions to carry them. Somewhere along the way, though, those ideals disap­peared from political 
rhetoric. 
rhetoric in several speeches during the Depression to legitimize the New Deal. Finally, the civil rights movement was a continuation of the polities of Reconstruction: the struggle for politi­cal and civil equality by blacks earned popular support not on appeals strictly for justice, but rather through appeals to the spirit of the Constitution. 
American -politics was once the story of a struggle between ideals and the capacity of institutions to carry them. Somewhere along the way, though, those ideals disappeared from political rhetoric. American politics is no longer a struggle to shape and craft the creed -instead it is devoid of ideals. When was the last time you heard the word "liberty" or "equality" used in a political speech? Or when was the last time you heard a politi­cian make a direet reference to the Constitution? Sure, there are elusions to it-especially by Republicans who pledge to restrain the size and scope of government. However, the Constitution is no longer really the battleground. This was proven by Bob Dole in 1996, who realized early on in the campaign that he'd be better off promising a steep tax cut than telling voters he carried a copy of the 1Oth 

Amendment in his pocket. 
There is one last glimmer of hope for a return to creedal poli­tics, however. Its hope hinges on an issue that has lingered in Washington since Watergate, but on which no meaningful action has been taken: the role of money in politics. This is the only issue on which both reformers and defenders of the sta­tus quo wrangle on 
Constitutional and ereed-based grounds. The sides are represented most vehemently by Senator McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, and Senator Feingold, a Democrat from Wisconsin. McConnell defends the status quo by equating monetary donations with free speech -limits on campaign spending and giving would violate the First Amendment. Feingold on the other hand bases his call for reform on the principles of political equality and "one person, one vote," and an appeal to Americans' inherent distrust of concentrated power. Whether you like them or not, agree with them or disdain them, McConnell and the youthful Feingold are the last of the throwbacks from Constitutional politics . 
Feingold is in a dead heat in his bid for reelection in Wisconsin. True to form, he truthfully pledged not to spend more than one dollar for every Wisconsin citizen during the cam­paign. He has also been heavily criti­cal of the AFL-CIO and his own party, both of whom surpassed him to run soft money "issue-ads" to attack his opponent. Though he hails from a dif­ferent state and is not up for reelec­tion this year, McConnell may ulti­mately be responsible for Feingold's defeat. As the chair of the Hepublican Senatorial Committee, he will spend countless amounts of the soft money that Feingold scorns in an attempt to defeat him. 
So whether they realize it or not, voters in Wisconsin may hold the key to a revitalization of ercedal politics in America. The defeat of Feingold would vindicate McConnell's interpre­tation of Constitutional ideals, and eliminate any serious threat to the sta­tus quo: an ideal -and creed-less pol­ities. A Feingold victory, however, would legitimize the Constitutional position of reformers and reinvigorate the debate in Washington over cam­paign-linanee-in the context, of course, of the American Creed. No other contemporary issue has the potential to ignite the debate over American ideals like campaign-finance reform. One only hopes that voters in Wisconsin will light the match that may spark a lire. 
J.P. Cooney is a senior government and economics major. His column appears every other Wednesday. He can be reached via e-mail at Cooney. 6@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
'Ivastly prefer Sartre's 
plays to his philosophy. 
Existentialism works much 
better in the theatre than in 
theory.' 

-A.J. Ayer 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, October 28, 1998-----------------os~ERVER ----------------------------------------------page II 

•Lrrr AT NO 
Halloween Memories 
''Trick or Trnat! Snwllmy fnnt! other side of the road. They also (;ivP 1111' sonwthing good to l'at!" snnmnd to be enjoying the nvening. 
Kids low that saying. It's so ripe Soon, we wen) a fi)w feet away from with potPntial! Ciw me a treat or I'll them, and for some reason, both get you good' Of' mursn, that y1)ar parties grew quiet, except for the wlwn I was elnvnn, my mother took klop. klop , klop of our feet in the us kids Trick or Tn)ating. and stn)l)t. A street lamp. just waking up, there's not a lot of mischief you can weakly nngotiatnd the darkness for wn•ak on houses wlwn your mom is us. I remember sevnral of the pnoplo 
standing !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ 
hnhind you. In fact, WI' I'OUidn't IWI'n stPp on pen­ph's lawns! I could tii'VI'r ligurP out why slw nu·;·ly canw up to LitI' 
housns to ask for randy, bull gunss slw was just tlwn· to makn surn wn wPrl' ok. 
Tlw Nnw Orleans rwighborhood WI' livnd in had a mix turn of' p1Hlple; 
sonH' African 1\mPrican. 
SOilIn 
HuropPan 1\nwrican. Wn mainly wPnt to hoUSI)S WI' krww. Thus far. tlw drama of that IWI'IIillg had consistPd of making 
llallowPI~n 
rostumns, and 
tlu• pPrPtmial 
rontPSt 
hi'LWPI'Il my 
brotlwr. sistl'r and I n~gard­ing who would 
havn tlw most randy by tlw Pnd of' tlw I'VI'ning. (In 
rntrospPct, it c:ouldn't have 
hPI'Il much of a ron lost. 1\f'ter all, we nac:h went to 
tlw. sanw houses, and 
got tlw samt) amount of' candy!) 
I LOVED Kandy Korn! I loved Mary .larw's! llovnd anything Hershey's, nspPdally Kisses. EVEHYONE loved Tootsi1~ Holls. .Idly Beans worn ok too, nxcnpt grnl'n ones (Sorry, Irish litns.) Thorn's an art to getting the candy you want. too. For example, owr the years, wn had learned that it's smart to carry big Trick or Treat hags. l'nopln li)d guilty if you go to tlwir door carrying a big bag but Uwy only put mw or two piecns of l'andy into it. Also, kids havo a little grapevine thoy use to sc:out out houses. If some lady starts giving out applns, she'd better plan on making apple pio that weekend, because onc1~ the word hits the streets, very l'nw kids will c:omn to_ her doorway! 
On this particular oceasion, by the limn it was dusk, we had alrnady eowrml thn houses all around our hloek. I then convinced my mom to walk us up the road a little further. to my frinnd, Donald's, house. We walked through the moonlit neigh­borhood, lau~hing together and hav­ing fun. talking about the little trea­sures in our llalloween bags and the goofy costumes we'd seen so far. 
Wlwn we came to one intersec­tion, wn notic1~d that thero was a group or Caucasians, mainly teenagers, approaching along tim 
Mel Tardy 
-----========---­
"IIi!" to our fellow Trick or Treaters. All at once, they erupted with vonom! "Oh yeah, right Nigger!," eame tho rotort, along with a series of loud "llaw llaw IIAWWW!!" and 
other. unprint­able insults. In shock. my brother, sister and lmust'vo stopped in our tracks. bncausc I remembnr my mother quickly telling us to " ... Just keep 
·walkin'!!" II' thorn's a fear that Halloween seeks to inspire, we experienced it that ev1ming, and I'm not talking pump­kins. I can still see the angry, betrayed look on my mother's faco, even twenty years later. Trust me, you wouldn't want to sec sueh a look on your mother's face. 
About a week 

ago, I saw the new movie basod on Toni Morrison's novnl, "Beloved." I suppose there arc many African Americans haunt­ed and taunted by demonic memo­ries of our individual and collective past. These evenl'i were real. 
I do have somo solace in the pre­sent, however. Last year, I took my own daughter Trick or Treating in our new neighborhood. We wem having a good time going house to house. (1, of courso, told her not to get on anyone's lawn.) I couldn't help but relive the memories of that fateful evening over twenty years ago. That inevitable moment eamc when we encountered a group of Caucasians approaching us from the . other side of the street. I took a deep breath. and spoke a simple "IIi!" to them. History did not repeat itself. They were friendly as could be! A lit­tle ways ahead, she asked me "What are you smiling about, Dad'?" "Nothing!" I replied. "Nothing at all." 
Mel Tardy, ND '86. '90, is the Assistant Professional Specialist at the First Year ofStudies. /lis column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
had on white t-shirts and jeans, and one of them had a beer bottle. 
Finally. my mom's good nature came out, and she inter­rupted the klop 
klop with a
friendly. drawling 
• LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Whitmore Takes Wrong Angle in Criticism of Neo-conservative Economics 
I consider myself a critic of libertarian ­or "neo-conservative" -economics, but I am not persuaded by Professor Todd David Whitmore's recent criticisms of the same. Aeeording to Whitmore. the.neo-conserva­tives Novak, N~mhaus. Wiegel. et a!. deftlnd their emphasis on free-market economics by denying that "economic rights" are an essential part of Catholic social doctrine. I have never heard the neo-conservatives defend themselves with this denial, and if Geol'ge Wiegel did It on one occasion I sub­mit that it was an unnecessary misstep on his part. As I understand the strongest ver­sion of the neo-eonservative position, it does admit the importance of' economic rights, and especially emphasizes the right to private property and the right to free association. Moreover -and this is the central and specifically economic argument of the neo-conservatives -it is supposed to be by maxlm{\lly respecting these rights 
Mock Graves Reveal Hypocrisy at ND 
On Friday, Oct. 2, former Senator Bill Bradley gave the thirdlecture in his five part series at Notre Dame. After the lecture he was asked ifhe were going to be ~'doing any skiing" in New Hampshire any time soon, or in other wol'ds, attending th!l primaries. 
Only a few short hours after the conclusion ofthe lecture. I found myself exiting the pep rally through a stirring display of tiny white erosses-4,400 of them lined up in neat rows before the outstretched arms ofJesus on the Hesburgh library. rt gave me great pause as the rain drizzled down on the sym­bolic graves. I was struck by the hypocrisy of the day. 
Bill Bradley, a visiting professor of public affairs in the Hesburgh program for Puhlie Service at Notre Dame. is a man who has used his vote in the U.S. Senate to participate in the continuation of' abortion and partial birth abortion. 
"There are absolutely no obstetrieal situa­tions encountered in this country which require a partially delivered human fetus to be destroyed to preserve the health of the mother," said Dr. Pamela Smith. Director of Medical Education in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at Mt. Sinai Hospital, Chicago. 
Partial birth abortion eonsi.')t.'i of a baby of up to seven months or more being pulled out of the uterus, the puncturing of the base of the skull, and the brains being vacuumed out thereby shrinking the head. This past sum· mer, a baby girl in Arizona became the first survivor of an attempted partial birth abor­tion. She was about 37 weeks at the time of the procedure and ended up being delivered alive with a fractured skull and two deep facial lacerations. but no apparent brain damage. The fact that Notre Dame finds par­ticipation in the perpetuation ofsuch acts and circumstances worthy of a guest profes­
-sor In its program of public service is mor­bidly ironic. Yes, Notre Dame is an institution oflearn· ing, one where ideas should be freely expressed and opposing viewpoints welcome, but it is also a place that supposedly stands for c(:Jrtain ideals. An important differenee exists between supporting discourse and paying homage to someone who contradicts a moral tenet ofthe Catholic Church. I am forced to conclude that the decision makers at the University of Notre Dame do not truly regard abortion as the equivalent of murder as its Catholicism would suggest it should. IfBradley supported the calculated killings orten-year-old children -which an institution following the Catholic Chureh should view as analogous to killing the unborn -would they still invite him to hold 
that we best serve the other rights -the right to a just wage, the right to humane working conditions, ete. Indef\d, this is why the neo-conservatives can claim that their defense of classical Jibentl (lconomies is motivated by, and not inspite of, Chl'istian moral concerns. Thus, as I understand it. the real issue between the neo-conserva­tives and their critics like Whitmorn and myself is not whethflr tlwro are eeonomic rights, but how those economic rights are best respected-whether, for instanc!l, clas!)icalliberal economie theory tells us all, or only part, of what we need to know about how to satisfy the preferential option for the poor. 
Joshua Hochschild Graduate Srud~nt Department of Philosophy October 27, 1998 
this honored position? Would our provost Nathan 0. llateh still say that "Senator Bradley has established himself as om~ orour foremost national leaders during his years on Capitol Hill"'? 
It is jarring that representatives of Notre Dame see abortion and partial birth abortion proponents as foremost national leaders. It is even moro jarring that tho Unive!'slty of Notre Damtl does t)ot feel that tho eontinm1d practice of abortion ri'ies to any level of crisis or sinks to any depth of loathsomem1ss such that it warrants the exdusion of its active supporters from prestigious positions here. 
I would be interested in hearing an expla­nation from Monk Malloy or anothel' mpre­sentative ofthtl University as to how they jus­tify giving Bradley the power and the pres­tige of a Notre Dame mkrophotHl if th(~y truly believe that abortion is a grievous sin. 
One of the main items on Bradley's web home page is his announcement of his posi­tion at Notre Dame. It is apparent that to some degree Bradley hopes to gain political favor by his presence her·e. In aiding him in coming closer to a potential pl'esidential nomination, Notre Dame is adding to tlw probability that the next time a ban on par·­tial bil'th abortion comes neross tho presi­dent's desk, someone like Bill Bradley will be sitting there to veto it. Yes, Notre Danw has intellectual freedom as a university, but they still should have responsibility. 
None of Bradley's other views or positions on issues ean purge the injustice he has helped bring upon thtl baby girl fl·om Arizona and the thousands of others who do not survive. I'm sure some slavery propo­nents in our country's past had impressive thought'> on taxes and foreign affairs. but does that mean that they should be givlln praise u.s national lenders? Would Notre Dame invittl thtlm to bf:l guest professors? 
We all know how easy it is to say that we believe something, just as Notre Dame says they oppose abortion. Tho diflkulty eornes In living accordingly. It is a shame that Notre Dame, which could be central to a movement in opposition to abortion, is content to dwell in the vast abyss that is inaction. 
As one of the few institutions which still claims to stand unabashedly and unapologet­ically for a clear sense of morality, it is diffi­cult to see how Notre Dame ean afl'ord to potentially aid an abortion proponent, and specifically n partial hlrth abortion propo­nent, in his political career. 
Michelle E. Barton sophomo~ government/English major Walsh Hall O(robtr 8, 1998 

O THE 


The power of the Bookstore's MuseTM, in your own dorm room 
A 
s almost every student at Notre Dame with a Music because they offer something that the other sites made the ordering process much longer. CD World computer in his or her room has found out, a do not -searches that include returns in more than gives you the option of setting up an account during fast Internet connection puts a myriad of one site. the ordering information at your fingertips. Most of you Minstrel also will return COs avail-•ll!llll!ii!F.Er,;-;H;-;:.-:.;-;:o:"::u~.7c:".-:.-::u~.-;H;-;.:-;:.-:;.-;,;-::o:-,;-;,-;;.-;;.-::.:-::.-:;.-;,-:.-;,-:;-o::-..;-;:-cJ process so you do might not have realized, though, that you can spend able at CD Warehouse www. cdware-Jl~llll not have to if you do hours aimlessly browsing the web and pick up some house.com, a site that has many used ~-not want to. CD COs at the same time. With the popularity of online COs and some homebrewed bootlegs ·. Now and Music shopping increasing because of its ease and conve-too. Southland CD www.slcd.com also · . Boulevard have nience, it is no wonder that there are online music has many import and promotional COs. · ·· ,..,,....._, made it a require-stores sprouting Ranking on the other end ,_.,..,_,,."'"" ..........,,., ment. In addition, up everywhere. • .... of the seale is Tower the ability to check What does shop-Records, which had only .......,~:.:., on you orders is ping for COs on the the major releases from . f....... also nice. The sites
:_,. ·,web offer over the band. . · with profiles makes conventional music Most of these sites ~t..r this easier.
11shopping trips? were very close in price. ~;!',,., These sites accept Well for one thing, Music Boulevard was ""'~";:;""""' ·---~···''""' ~ a variety of pay-living on campus, however consistently ::::;r rell ments, but the easi­without a car and lower in comparison to """''"'""""'"'-'irl'"•'" est is a credit card having a hectic the other sites. Minstrel ~:,:::~~;;;'"'·,._._,............ ,...,., because it dramati­schedule does not Music was a little pricey ''"""'•'"'"""'-l>""""~'u"" ..,.,~M cally speeds up thfl leave the average but the did offer some .......~~.,"'-"""'-,.v.,, whole process. college students used COs. "'''~·~..,..........,».~!..!!& "H"'" Telephonfl ordering much time to roam Most sites ranked ~:::':i.:!'.:'M:;';.;J~;,~·"'" ..... ,.... ~~;~....,., by credit card is through a music about the same in the FMa•M"'•""'""' ... u........ also popular for shop. While you speed category, with CD H.~.,.-~_f<l:f.Mft~.~-those who do not can't actually pick Now being one of the trust security on thfl up the CD in your fastest. AB-CD was con-:;:;·;.;,"-'""""'"w-·..·-·-"""--·· Internet. hand and flip it sistently slow and did not Lla"'"''"'"·"·'._.. The growing over to read the make browsing very trflnd in these music track listings, most easy. Tower Records T..."""~•·-sites is that they online shops offer Online was also slow but don't just offer just as much infor-not as bad. -~ anymore.
r---------b=---d.._--------, music mation, if not One of the criteria that www.a •C .com Many have books more. But, keep in I ranked the highest for *** relating to music, as 
mind that you online shopping is the well as a variety of won't be able to Album info. Many people'--------------------------' movies that make take your purchas-are timid about online shopping becausfl them a one-stop entertainment shop. If you are dos­es home and listen ...-------------:;;:,.--=--=---=------, they are uncertain about what they are perate to find that CD that you just cant seem to find in
www.musa·cblvd.comto them right going to get. It helps when shopping to any local store, try going online and chances are thern away. know what it is you are looking for. is a site that will have what you want and a whole lot 
All items are ***** Usually the larger selection means the more. 
shipped, and if less information the sites are going to you're low on VOTED BEST OVERALL have. The most important information in patience you will '--------------------------' most people's minds is the track listings. be checking the mail several times a day hoping to get All the sites had them for the major releases, but for that box. Also, in most cases you're not going to get the the imports there were often none. CD Now and Music best deal online, especially when you factor in shipping Boulevard ranked the highest in this category because costs. The faster you want it, the more you will have of the sheer amount of information they give you, pay. including reviews and suggestions about expanding 
With all this said, what online your interests into shops oiTer that regular shops do not r.;;,;;;;;;;;---:;;;=:===--;;;;;-;,~;::::::J other artists. is a greater selection and stock. In Q•Jfi•P "iiia•--ITJ ~---11!1!!1»1-.t AB-CD offers only 
addition, some sites even carry used ,~,..~'i;~\\ioNE very basic information CDs that you ean pick up for a frac-MUSIC STORE I ...... ~ on the COs and often" tion of the cost of new ones. ..:;;;;;~~~·-Omr~~e~ did not include tracks.
J 

For this article. I decided to pick _""'"'""""" s v1 30% Another feature that 
. . h d ...............,... Storewide • ngswith ,....'l!f:i'!!~!M . 1'1' .
out six s1tes, compare t em, an rate ....."...~....... many Sites are o ermg them on a few factors -selection, :~·:; ..,~,. is the ability to sample price, speed. album info and ease of ..., !:~~;,.....~o..,. certain tracks before ordering. There are many more sites "'"Ctn"'-" you buy. It is nice to out there besides these six, but they have the ability to lis­are a good cross section of what you ten to a little of a CD might find when searching for a """""'...,...,,..,..,~..,, .....,,Jo... r..n,,......, before you purchase it. place to shop. ~~:,~u~=~~::ne~~~ Another rather 
1hiU\tbtJt,1t~'li'IISI:teJDr::011:eof~eiU'ld.Olll:crytol 

In order to make the comparisons H;~~~=-=;::.::.~.':,."'!:;:;:c:;.:t"..i;:...,.,. important factor to somewhat fair, J decided to pick one 1~ !~:'t~~~=y~~~~veb, look at is the ease of artist to use as a basis of comparison "'"""""""... """'""'·...............,.,. ordering. The best 
-the Dave Matthews Band. Keep in Ovcw~.. •~·~· sites usually have the mind that things like selections and ::,t,·:;,.,... easiest and most usflr-
Gtn"'"''' YorK 

price can vary from one artist to ~';:i::..~.!h... friendly ordering another on the sites, but I decided to """"'""' process. The best way keep it fair and use a popular artist ._______. 1(""•") to judge the ease of with a good number of albums. I•~;;~~= the ordering process is 
The six sites that I chose to com-I= '•"""""""',..,"'"'-""'"""'·,..."'"'"" to see whether the site pare were AB-CD www. ab-ed. com, ;:~~~:=~~~.=c:i.~':::, allows you to create a Cl) World UJWW.cdworld.com, CD -~~~~t:~~<~"::~:k':).':;~ user profile.
mulli--~ ~~ru!-Hm:oct brUVGe.ahv!n's rilt 

Now www.cdnow.com, Minstrel ..,...,N':'"~"'·""..,.m"'"""'"""''M':.:.':;" In this profile infor-Music Network www.m2n.com, a~• mation such as Music Boulevard www.musicboule-address, both shipping 
vard.com and Tower Records Online 'I www.cdnow.com Iand billing, as well as
www.towerrecords.com. payment are saved so 
On the criteria of selection, most of that this information these sites offer many DMB CDs, **** docs not have to be including the import singles that reentered every time have recently shown up on the mar-you want to order ket. In fact, AB-CD characterizes itself as specializing something. Of the sites in this review, CD World, CD in import and rare COs. Now and CD Boulevard allowed this option. Some sites 
Puwer Search ' 
c•••IO(I Welcome ~-·:
He~ • . Checkout Thi! World's Ul stDiscount Enrertalnmellf Store 
SEARCH t; 
I Artist r1-cs::-•em--:-h=-E.,.-rytlung--:--------.1(Se=h JI 25 Rmm 
0 CJ.UoltBo•f-~MtU.IS•~ OclMkB••tos...tB,.Sbntbtc $PSA 
WHAT WE HAVE ; 
Gill Certificues How Anila)Jr!~ ~ &: Th.-~ 
Comic Product 
Comie 8ook1, tl!Js.!!!!, Bc>oks hf!!~ ILOvwls),<:;a..,.,,'tn~~.~. ~pp.!!!J.,Th.'ll&l1<>4.orb,~ 
Free Stuft 
Other 
hl'llt.Onr.JolWo,U.,G:dthfat-AOf' ..UUliaotc 
tha~crMa,CMekOrLr~ 
Eaterltaaf::~ £Mer E-..il:~~ Yov:u.-&c_il_a.onw_llor~Hot.Sc. c.-......-R•L.s Congn.tu.b.ttoti T11.11.p O~t.U fttb $20.00 }I'Jllt wJUIH" 
www.cdworld.com 
**** 


They had the most COs with more imports than any-such as Southland CD also create a quick search list one else, and some that were not found at any other for you favorite artists. 
Byjames Schuyler
site. Also ranking well in this category was Minstrel The other three sites did not offer this capability and 


-
Wednesday, October 28, 1998 ---------------OTHE page 13
BSERVER 


Up~o.uing U.upl.rey's M~Geesl.o~s 
Today Stonehenge 4:30 
~, Oct. 29 (Thurs~) Finnigan's (21 +) 10:00 ... Oct. 31 (Sat)· Mishawaka Athletic Club 8:30 Nov. 4 (Wed.) Club Landing (21 +) 10:00 
And be sure to check out the band's debut album, 
Greatest Hits: Volume Ill 
S
tudPnts who rely on tlw rampus band scone for live musical nntnrtain­nwnt may havn notie!HI somPthing missing latnly-Letter X. TIH~ hand has hnnn on hiatus for th11 past f1~w w1wks whiln rhanging lnad sing~~rs, L1~ttnr X is still in husirwss. though, and will lw hark playing in tlw nnxt couple of'WPI'ks, 
Fornwr lead singnr Katie Hyan dPI"idPd to IPaVI' Lnltnr X earlier this SI'IIII'SII'r as tlw dnnuuHls of hPr rlassiral voicl' training lll'ramn too gl'l~at to juggl!~ with
singing nvnry wnnkend in a rock ~....-_______........._____.-.._____. 
hand. Tlw n•nHLining membnrs of Lnttnr Arkedis. x dPrided to stay together despite Although five women tried out to front I, · 1 ttl'' the seven-member band, Beth
,yan s 1 npar 1c. Tlwy imnwdiatnly snt out to l'l~placn Buckingham, a senior from Farley Hyan with anotlwr woman to sing lead IIall,was chosen to replace Ryan. vocals with llarn~n Coady. "We felt it "We liked Beth because of her person­was part of our uniqueness to have a ality and bncause her voice really com­f'Pmaln Inad singm·," said drummnr Jim pliments Darren's," Arkedis said. 
form because shn was studying 
in Spain last year, but is eager to 
start performing. 
With the addition of Buckingham. Letter R's styln should not change too much. Arkedis describes the hand's style as "a variety of upbeat music that hopefully people will get into and dance to." Lnttrr R will be sticking to many of its crowd-pleasing favoritns as well as adding somP new songs. 
After the break and re-organi­
zation of tlw band, Lrttnr R is 
eager to re-nmnrge on tlw cam­
;;.._________________. pus band scene and will be play-Although she has never performed ing this Friday night at the Irish with a rock band before, Buckingham Connection Hallowren party.has plenty of experience as a singer in high school musicals and is currently amember of the Notre Dame folk choir. "I think singing with this band will be a fun outlet for my voice," she said. She 
Katie Keller 
admits that has never seen Letter 8 per-
UPCO 
INii SHOWS 
CHICAGO 
God Street Wine  Oct. 31  House of Blues  
Violent Femmes  Nov. 3  Riviera  
Phish  Nov. 7-9  UIC Pavilion  
Dishwalla  Nov. 10  Metro  
Afghan Whigs  Nov. 12·13 Metro  
Metallica  Nov. 19  Aragon Horizon  
Depeche Mode  Nov. 24-25 Rosemont Horizon  
Garbage  Nov. 25  Riviera Theatre  
Widespread Panic  Nov. 27-28 Aragon Ballroom  
John Spencer Blues Ex.  Dec. 12  Metro  
Big Bad Voodoo Daddy  Dec. 16  House of Blues  
Dave Matthews Band  Dec. 19  United Center  
Blues Traveler  Dec. 30-31 Aragon Ballroom  

NOTRE DAME Third Eye Blind Nov. 11 Stepan Center Aerosmith Nov. 29 Joyce Center 
INDIANAPOLIS 
Lyle Lovett  Oct. 31  ·Clowes Hall  
Grant Lee Buffalo  Nov. 3  Vogue Theatre  
Brian Setzer Orch.  Nov. 5  World Mardi Gras  
Marcy Playground  Nov. 16  Murat Theatre  
Garbage  Nov. 17  Murat Theatre  
Barenaked Ladies  Nov. 19  Murat Theatre  
Rev. Horton Heat  Nov. 23  Vogue Theatre  
Days of the New  Nov. 25  Murat Theatre  
Tori Amos  Nov. 30  Murat Theatre  

OHIO-MICHIGAN 
Cake  Nov. 8  Clutch Cargos (Pontiac)  
Goo Goo Dolls  Nov. 11  Agora Theatre (Cleveland)  
Billy Joel  Nov. 12  Gund Arena (Cleveland)  
Fastball  Nov. 13  St. Andrew's Hall (Detroit)  
Phish  Nov. 14  Crown Theatre (Cincinnati)  
Dave Matthews Band  Nov. 21  Crown Theatre (Cincinnati)  
Cheap Trick  Nov. 27-29  St. Andrew's Hall (Detroit)  


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 28, 1998 
'"' • NHl 
Flyers rebound after slide to remain atop the Atlantic 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA 
Colin Forbes deflected a nonchalant shot by Dan McGillis 28 seconds into the second period for the decisive goal, and John Vanbiesbrouck made 30 saves as the Philadelphia Flyers beat the St. Louis Blues 2-1 Tuesday night. 
The Atlantic-leading Flyers won for the first time in three games after losing to New Jersey and tying the Rangers on Saturday. Outshot for the first time this season and held to 1-for-9 on the power play, they relied on a stellar performance by Vanbiesbrouck. 
Forbes broke a 1-1 tie with· his third goal of the season right after a faceoff early in the third. His weight on the wrong foot, McGillis casually dumped the puck toward the goal, and Forbes tipped it through Jamie McLennan's pads for a 2-1 lead. 
McGillis also was involved in the real highlight of the game -Scott Pellerin's glass-shattering check three minutes into the third period. 
Pellerin's jarring check broke a pane of glass and sent it spraying into the Blues' penalty box. St. Louis star Chris Pranger, in the box for elbowing, got a glass show­er but was OK. 
After Pierre Turgeon gave the Blues a 1-0 lead four minutes into the first, Rod Brind'Amour tied it with his fourth goal -all on power plays -with 3:32 left in the period. John LeClair's pass went right between Eric Lindros' legs to Eric Desjardins, who ripped a slap shot that was stopped by McLennan. Brind'Amour picked up the rebound and put it over McLennan's stick into the top right cor­ner. 
A minute after Turgeon's goal, Vanbiesbrouck stopped him on a point­blank shot. Vanbiesbrouck made a spec­
... 
tacular save four minutes into the second, flailing backward and def1ecting Scott Young's close shot with his glove, and survived a 1 0-shot barrage in the third as the Blues outshot Philadelphia 31-20. 
Islanders 1, Kings 0 
Tommy Salo stopped 20 shots for his third shutout of the season and Joe Sacco scored in the third period as the New York Islanders beat the Los Angeles Kings 1-0 Tuesday night. 
Sacco's goal, his first of the season, came at 2:01 of the final period. After taking two strides over the red line, Sacco fired a slap shot toward Kings goalie Manny Legace. The puck bounced in front of the crease and went through the goalie's pads. 
Salo, who has played in all eight games for New York this season, also has shutouts against Tampa Bay and St. Louis. He got a break when an apparent tying goal was disallowed with 6:15 left in the game because the net came loose before the puck crossed the goal line. 
Legace stopped 33 shots for Los Angeles, which is 1-2-1 on its current five-game road trip, which ends in New Jersey on Wednesday night. The Kings have scored only six goals in those four games. 
The Islanders outshot the Kings 14-1 during the first 12 minutes of the game but Legace stopped them all, including Sergei Nemchinov's shorthanded break­away at 4:10. 
Rangers 0, Sabres 0 
Dominik Hasek, with help from both his defense and goal posts, extended his shutout streak against New York to four games as the Buffalo Sabres and Rangers played to a 0-0 tie Tuesday night. 
Hasek and Rangers goaltender Mike Richter were both flawless, but Hasek only had to face 16 shots while posting the 35th shutout of his NHL career. Hasek also was lucky as three New York shots hit the posts. 
Adam Graves hit the post in the first period from the left circle and again in the third from the same spot. Brian Leetch also hit the post in the third period with the Rangers on a power play. 
The Rangers squandered many good chances against Hasek, who has held them scoreless since Wayne Gretzky scored at 6:14 of the third period in a 3-3 tie at Buffalo on Nov. 28, 1997. Hasek extended his shutout string against the Rangers to 263 minutes and 46 seconds. 
Richter, meanwhile, made several spec­tacular stops in gaining his 19th career shutout and helping the Rangers extend their unbeaten streak to five (2-0-3) after starting the season 0-4-0. 
With 8:30 left in the first period, Richter 
stopped Geoff Sanderson's hard shot from 
the slot. In the second, Richter turned 
back Vaclav Varada and Curtis Brown in 
close on one sequence about six minutes into the period, then stopped 

EASTERN .·CONFERENCE
Darryl Shannon two minutes later from the slot. 
Atlantic Division With the Sabres on a power 
W L T . Pts GF GA 
play midway through the peri­od, Richter stopped successive shots by Matthew Barnaby and Michal Grosek from just outside the crease. 
Hasek, meanwhile, only faced 10 shots in the first two periods. Hasek's best save came on Brent Fedyk's shorthanded attempt, a point-blank shot with just under 12 minutes left in the period. 
In overtime, Richter was test­ed again on a quick shot by Shannon from the right point but the Rangers goalie stayed with it even though he seemed partially screened. 
Rangers right wing Alexei Kovalev bruised a shoulder in the first period and was taken to a hospital for X-rays. lie did not return to the game. 
Predators 5, Canucks 4 
Sergei Krivokrasov scored his second goal of the game with 
1:26 left to give Nashville a 5-4 victory over the Vancouver Canucks on Tuesday and snap the Predators' four-game losing 
streak. Krivokrasov, who also had an assist, pushed the rebound of Jamie Heward's point shot through Canucks goaltender Garth Snow's legs on the power play for the winner. Mike Dunham made 27 saves for the win. Jeff Daniels, Tom Fitzgerald and Andrew Brunette also scored for Nashville, which blew a two-goal lead in the third peri­od for the second straight game. Vancouver's Bill Muckalt and Todd Bertuzzi scored goals 44 seconds apart early in the third period to tie the game at 4. Adrian Aucoin and Mark Messier. who finished with a goal and two assists, also scored 
Philadelphia  5  1  2  
N.Y. hlan.ders  4  4  0  
Pittsburgh  3  2  1  
N.Y. Rangers  2  4  3  
New Jersey  3  3  0  
Northeast  Division  
W  L  T  
Toronto  5  2  1.  
Montreal  3  3  1  
Boston  3  4  1  
Ottawa  3  3  0  
Buffalo  2  3  2  
Southeast  D ivision  
W  L  T  
Washington  3  2  2  
Tampa Bay  3  4  I  
Florida  2  3  
Carolina  2  2  3  

WESTERN CONFERENCE 
Central Division 
w L T Detroit 5 2 0 Chicago 
4 2 1 St. Louis 
3 3 Nashville 2 5 
Northwest Division 
w L T Vancouver 4 4 0 Edmonton 3 4 0 Calgary 2 4 Colorado 5 
Pacific Division 
w L T Dallas 5 I I Lps ·Angeles 3 3 2 Phoenix 3 2 Anaheim 2 3 
San Jose 
0 4 2 

12 8 7 7 6 
Pts 1 I 
. 7 7 
6 6 
Pts 8 7 7 7 
Pts 10 9 
7 
5 
Pts 8 6 5 3 
Pts 
II 
8 7 5 2 
20 
16 16 15 12 
GF 26 17 
15 17 14 
OF 
13 19 
!0 
17 
GF 
21 19 
!8 20 
GF 23 21 
19 17 
GF 
19 17 
17 
II 10 
II 18 18 
23 
13 
OA 
21 14 14 16 15 
GA 
10 23 11 15 
GA 12 
19 18 
26 
GA 
19 19 
25 29 
GA 
II 18 
12 
[I 
18 

for the Canucks. chances. The Predators failed to score on Krivokrasov's winning goal was a 1:32 two-man advantage in the second Nashville's first power-play tally in five period. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All dassifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES  CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED EARN UP TO $11.00  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  Beautiful brass bed.queen size. with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Need 2 Baylor GAs. Please call212-636-7472.  2 Baylor GAs 4 Sale Call Kim@ 4-3193  
Part-time work around class.  frame.New.never used,still in plas­ BEST OFFER  
THE COPY SHOP  No telemarketing. Car needed  tic.$225  
LaFortune Student Center  Scholarships available.  302 N. Walsh 2br/2bath. Corner of  219-862-2082  NEED LSU TIX  I Need 2 B.C. Tickets. Call Mike @  
We're Open A Loti!!  call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed.  LaSalle and Walsh.  Screened in  Call Matt 287-5179  634-1613  
Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30am -7:00 pm  282-2357.  porch w/deck. Great location 1mi. South of ND. Plenty of room for  TICKETS  Baylor GA 4sale x1067  FOR SALE: 2 Baylor GA"s  
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm  SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW!  three.  $900mo.  Ask for Patti  Call631-7048  
Sun: Noon -Midnight  Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  2872799.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  4 Baylor GAs for Sale.  
When you need copies, we're open!  S.Padre.14 Free Meals + 34 hrs. Free Parties.America's best prices  GAMES.272-6306  Call Jeff @ x3592  PERSONAL  
& packages.Campus sales reps  TICKETMART Inc  2 Baylor tix for sale. 273-1510  
Early Spring Break  wanted Earn free trips + cash  HOUSES FOR RENT  BUY-SELL-TRADE  Leave offer.  Retired nurse will babysit.  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  1.800.SURFS.UP  DOMUS PROPERTIES  Notre Dame Football Tickets  $3/hr. Own car, refs.  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  www.studentexpress.com  258-1111  Baylor Tix For Sale  289-0332.  
Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  ILOST & FOUND I  614 S. ST JOE; 9 BED/4 BATH 518 S. ST JOE; 8 BED/2 BATH 532. 534 S. CARROLL; 7 BED  No student tickets please  Call Shannon 4-3945 2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­ I found a caterpillar in my NOH let­tuce  
Air,Hotei.Meals &Parties  1016 S. BEND AVE; 7 BED  DO YOU Have Friends coming in  6746 daze or 672-7284 eves.  Kathy K  
$339!Panama City Room With  820 S. BEND AVE; 5 BED  for Baylor that you want to sit with?  
Kitchen,? Free Parties  *********LOST*********  630 ST. PETER; 5 BED  I have 4 Baylor GA's in the student  2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­ '' ATIENTION LESBIAN. GAY.  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  3 COM PALM Ill electronic  606 ST. PETER; 5 BED  section. Call me x2276.  6746 daze or 672-7284 eves.  BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  organizer  610 ST. PETER; 5 BED  STUDENTS "  Original student  
1-800-678-6386  Lost on Friday October 9, at aprox.  1718 E. WASHINGTON;2 BED  FOR SALE  group will hold SUPPORT meeting  
7:00pm  602 ND AVE; 5 BED  FOOTBALL TICKETS  2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947­ tomorrow 10/29. Confidentiality  
OUR B&B has rooms for Baylor and  If found please call Carl  1082 WOODWARD; 2 BED  271-9412  6746 daze or 672-7284 eves.  respected as always.  Call info line  
,.  LSU due to last minute cancellation. 1.5 mls from ND/SMC. Great rates.  @273-2530 (no ?'s asked} """"REWARD'""'  ADDITIONAL HOMES AVAILABLE; ADDRESSES GIVEN UPON  WANTED  2 LSU GA"s $150 pr obo by  for details 236-9661 .  
super place for parents! Call 277­2388  I  FORRENT  REQUEST THESE HOMES ARE AVAILABLE  ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526  11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 x47091v msg  Mary Beth Ellis:  
WANTED I·L----------__J.  1 ,2.3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW  FOR THE 1999-2000 SCHOOL YEAR  NO Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645  THREE BAYLOR GA TIX FOR SALE.Mark 404/875-1171.  DONT MESS WITH TEXAS!!!  
SPRING BREAK '99!  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  CALL KRAMER@ 674-2571; 233­ Always buying and selling N D  Not everyone can have a good day  
Cancun'Nassau' Jamaica'Mazatlan  4509;0R CELL 276-7020  ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and  football tickets. 289-8048  at the same time. Fortunately, today  
• Acapulco'Bahamas  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  is my day.  
Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  674-7645  
Travel Free and make lots of  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  FOR SALE-BAYLOR & LSU GA'S.  Prepare everyone, the end is near­ 
Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs.Lowest price  FOR SALE  ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  ALSO TRADE MY 4 BAYLOR FOR YOUR 2 BOSTON COL.  er than was predicted. Just a few more weeks until finals.  
Guaranteed.Call now for details!  THAT PRETIY PLACE, Bed and  234-3204.  
www.classtravel.com  Breakfast Inn has space available  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  ND FOOTBALL TIX  She can write, she can manage,  
800/838-6411  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  198 MIN. $20  FOR SALE  SELLING 4 BAYLOR TIX  now she can even box. Watch out  
with private baths,$80­ CALL 258-4805  AM 232-2378  CALL MA TI 4-4506  world, because the greatest thing  
FREE SPRING BREAK '99  $115,Middlebury.30 miles from  PM 288-2726  Indiana has never produced is get­ 
With COLLEGE TOURS  campus.  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  2 stud tix avail for Baylor (lace) 4­ ting ready.  
Organize 20 travelers, earn 2 FREE  Toll Road, Exit #1 07  Bed box set. not available in  Need LSU tix  2795  
trips.Call FREE (800}395-4896  1-800-418-9487  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  289-2918  Good luck to all orgo-ists.  

_We_dn_esd_:_ay,_Oc_rob_er2_8,_19_98---------"-'Th"'-'-eO.c__bs:....::..::..._erv:....::..::..._er PA=-=1=--D-=AD=--..cVE--==-=R=-=T~IS=EM..:.=E==---:N~T----~--~ page IS
--=-· 


will lecture on 

---Meaning in American Politics---­


Wednesday, October 28, 7 p.m. Hesburgh Library Auditorium 
Senator Bradley's address is the fourth offive public policy addresses he will deliver on campus this fall. Live on the web at: http://www.nd.edu/-webcast 
,_..---.....------~-----~~ ~ 
page 16 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 28, 1998 
-
R~:~~a:4 
<E~~·~ Student Award 
RecSports "Champion Student Award" recipients are selected by the Office of Recreational Sports. Honorees are chosen for their involvement in RecSports, including excellence in sportsmanship, leadership and participation. 


Lisa Kolodny, a native of Golden, CO, is a senior who resides in Lyons Hall. A three year participant of the Domer Run, Lisa was the first undergraduate female 6 miler to cross the finish line this year. Lisa has completed two 1/2 marathons, and at the time of the Domer Run, she was training for the Columbus, OH 1/2 marathon. Lisa compliments her running workouts with aerobic classes and lifting weights. A Chemistry and Business major, Lisa also enjoys hiking, skiing and snowshoeing, hobbies more suited for Colorado than South Bend. 
Recipients receive ~~ merchandise from the 
"Specializing in Authentic Notre Dame Sportswear" 
(Joyce Center) 

dllt 
VARSITY SHOP 
Re-?=)rpp-·~ 'I'I' 
"Specializing in Authentic ort Notre Dame Sportswear" 
Look for this award to appear in the Observer every other Wednesday. Students selected receive ~~ 
. ~1.....,.~.=_~--:.. a. I. A I.­
merchandise courtesy of ~.._..........,-..... and the virrv'i' with two locations in the Joyce Center. The v.r.o; is open Monday-Saturday 9:00am to 5:00pm and Sunday 12:00pm to 4:00pm. (Phone: 631-8560). 
> 
~~~----~--~~--------------------~~~~-------·~~ 
Wednesday, October 28, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 17 
• NFL 
LA, Houston vie for new team 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Tlw NFL may deddr. by early next year whnther llouston or Los Ang!dns gnts its 32ncl fran­chise. 
The leagtu~·s. ownr.rs spent most of Tuesday listening to pitehes from the two eities that wern deserted hy their teams al'tm· the I 1) 1)5 and 1996 S(~a­sons. Tlwy did not take a vote, hut eommissio1wr Paul Tagliahue said lw expectnd a dncision sonw timn in tlw win~ ter. 
Both cHins lost teams at the !wight of tlw "franchise free agnncy" p(~riod. I.os Angeles lost both the Barns and Baiders, the Haiders returning to Oakland, from where tl)ey had moved in 1982, the Hams going to St. Louis. 
The Oilers committed that same year to leaving llouston, but didn't move until the next year for Tennessee. 
Tuesday's presentations came from three groups -one from llouston and two from Los Angelfls. 
One Los Angeles group is headed by Ed Hoski, owner of the NllL's Los Angeles Kings, and wants to renovate the Coliseum. The other is headed by former Hollywood agent Miehael Ovitz and wants to build a stadium called "The lladenda" in Carson, 12 miles 
Biosphere 2: Semester ''Abroad'' 
Fall1999 & Spring 2000 

pplication packets now available: 152 A Fitzpatrick Hall 
Students interested in participating Next Semester (Spring 1999) need to stop in ASAP. 
Application Deadlines: December 1, 1998 -for Fall 1999 February 1S, 1999 -for Spring 2000 
south of the city in what was originally planned as a shopping mall. 
The new franchise would join the new Cleveland Browns, scheduled to begin play next season as a replacement for the team Art Modell moved to Baltimore after the 1995 season. 
League officials would like the new team to begin play in 2002 or 2003. And Ovitz and busi­nessman Bob McNair, who heads the Houston group, said they need to have a decision by late this year or early next. 
"We want to be responsive," Tagliabue said. "I would think we could have something decid­ed early next year." 
All three groups presented plans for stadiums they claimed would be as modern as any in use now and all said their linancing was in place. 
Houston's, to be built in the parking lot of the current Astrodome, would have a retractable roof that could be dos(~d within 1 0 minutes. 
The Coliseum would be what Hoski called "the Camden Yards of football," a reference to Baltimore's baseball stadium. 
And Ovitz's group plans a sta­dium with a Latin motif on the outside surrounded by the shop­ping mall. 
Tagliabue said it would take time to study all three proposals. And the owners themselves seemed undecided, although Los Angeles has seemed to be an NFL target because it's the nation's second largest televi­sion market. 
The owners took little other action Tuesday, but Tagliabue reiterated that Dwight Clark, the player personnel director of the San Francisco 49ers, was likely to stay there through next April's draft despite a move by the Browns to get him to Cleveland. Carmen Policy, the 49ers' former president is now president of the Browns. 

2nd Annual 


TaYlor returns to rehab after bust 
By BARRY WILNER 
Alisochm:d Press 

NEW YORK 
Lawrence Taylor is back 
in drug rehabilitation, hop­
ing to, avoid prison and pro­
tect his standing for the Pro 
Football Hall of Fame after 
another arrest on cocaine 
charges. 

Taylor, a star linebacker 
with the New York Giants 
from 1981-93, returned to a 
rehab center in the New 
York area on Monday and is 
expected to be there for 30 
to 60 days. 

That would bring him 
close to the deadline for 
nominations for this year's 
Hall of Fame class. Taylor 
becomes eligible in 1999. 
''The fact he's going into 
rehab shows he is trying to 
do something beneficial for 
himself," said his lawyer, 
Thomas Melani. "It's a two­
pronged effort, the main 
thrust being with all the 
publicSty and stress he can 
gl:lt some reinforcement. 
"He's eligible for the Hall 
of Fame, which is the next 
big step for him, and he is 
trying to get over this latest 
hurdle and to make sure it 
does not affect his eligibili­
ty.,".)H'+ 

The' 39-year-old retired 
linebacker was arrested last 
weekin Florida on crack­
cocaine charges for the sec­
ond ~ime in three years. He 
~¢ontends he was set up by police in this latest case. and Melani sa.id Taylor passed a polygraph test oil Saturday. 
Melani said the former 
New York Giants star could 
face prison time if he didn't 
seek immediate drug coun­
seling. This arrest could vio­
late a plea agreement he 
made last year after Taylor 
pleaded guilty to filing a 
false federal income tax 
return for not including 
$48,000 in income from a 
trow-closed restaurant near 
Giants Stadium. 
"With the legalities of him awaiting sentencing on the federal situation with the Internal Revenue Service, his arrest could be consid­ered a violation of his pro­bation," Melani said. "The fact he is going into rehab shows he is trying to do something beneficial for himself.'' 
The maximum penalty fac­ing Taylor was three years in prison and a $250,000 fine, but he was expected to receive probation because he cooperated with federal prosecutors. 
Taylor has been in drug rehab several times, both while a player and after his retirement. His All-Pro career was marred by an NFL suspension for violating tho league's drug abuse pol­icy. 
"The only way to light it is not to do it," Taylor said in 1996. "You may stay clean for 30 years, but you're still close to it and will always be an addict." 
Several members of the committee that votes for the Hall of Fame admitted they would have second thoughts about voting for Taylor. Others noted his on-field performance should be the only criteria. 
Giants co-owner Wellington Mara said Tuesday the team helped Taylor re-enter rehab. 
"It is our policy to help our former players when we can," Mara said. 
Jets coach Bill Parcells, who coached Taylor with the Giants and said last week about him, "I l.ove the guy," also called the Giants to see if he could help. 
Taylor's latest arrest was on Oct. 19 in a St. Pete Beach, Fla .. motel room where police said he tried to buy $50 worth of crack cocaine from an undercover officer. According to police. 15 crack pipes were inside the room. 
Two years ago, Taylor was arrested in Myrtle Beach, S.C., where police said he tried to buy $100 worth of fake cJ'ack cocaine from undercover officer. 
~''" Need Cash ? ? Earn $25.00 Today with this Ad ''i( and a student I.D. 
I 

~------------------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per tnonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
-
... 
·. 



~ -·~------~-­

page 18 
-
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Tournment scores satellite TV deal 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
In an effort to bring more NCAA tournament games to more fans, CBS and Direct TV will put out-of-market basketball games on satellite television. 
The deal. which was announced Tuesday and will be evaluated after a year, is a small step in delivering viewers more choice of which games to watch during the tournament. Direct TV currently is in only 4.1 mil­lion homes. 
Direct TV will show the 34-36 games in each market that are not scheduled to be on the local CBS affiliate. The network will continue to cover the 63-game tournament in the same way, offering one game of regional interest in each time slot with limited switching to other games. 
CBS and the NCAA -which will share in the undisclosed rights fee paid by Direct TV ­decided not to offer pay-per-view games to other satellite systems or local cable operators, as ABC and ESPN do for college football games. Cable pay-per-view could be available in close to 70 mil­lion homes. 
CBS Sports president Sean McManus said one of the keys to this deal was the small number of homes in which Direct TV is available, limiting the competi­tion to CBS' affiliates. 
LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Great Books, Great Deals! 
20% OFF EVERY TITLE OCTOBER 26-30. 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 
237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown S.B. Open 10-5, Mon-Fri., lasalle@michiana.org 
Always discounts for NDISMC faculty & students! 
A CONTINUING LECTURE AND DISCUSSION SERIES: 

"We wanted to give this ser­vice to a relatively small group of people who want to see particu­lar games, without damaging the presentation on CBS," McManus said. "We never considered a cable package. That would have damaged the television proper­ty." 
But if the limited buy rate for ABC's college football games is an indicator, CBS could more than make up the money lost by affiliates with the increase in people paying to see games. 
"Pay-per-view is just a small blip on the radar screen," ABC Sports spokesman Mark Mandel said. "Affiliates understand that pay-per-view has little or no impact on their ratings and they understand it is good for college football fans and good for the networks." 
Direct TV will not disclose the pricing system for the games until early 1999. It could offer fans the ability to purchase the entire tournament or games on an a la carte basis or both. 
"We will try to make it as fan friendly and simple as possible," said Eddy Hartenstein, president of Direct TV. 
The deal can't guarantee fans that they can see every game in its entirety. If CBS switches an audience to a more competitive game, fans will no longer be able to see the game that was pre­empted. 
Wednesday, October 28, 1998 
Photo courtesy of West Virginia Sports Information 
West Virginia, celebrating after last year's win against Cincinnati that sent them to the Sweet 16, could be headed back to the tournament with a chance at national coverage with the NCAA's deal with Direct TV. 
Two delicious breakfast sandwiches for just two dollars. 
(Just a little something to tide you over until lunch.) 

These two breakfast sandwiches are more than just a little something. Right now, they're also a great deal. Just come into Burger King~ and get the delicious CROISSAN'WICH~ and the tasty Biscuit sandwich for just $2. That's two great-tasting breakfast sandwiches with sizzling sausage, egg, and melted cheese for $2. So go ahead, have both in the morning. After all, you haven't eaten all day. 
(Price and participation may vary. During breakfast hours only.) 
The Huddle -LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
® 

It just tastes better."' 
@1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the exclusive licensee of the registered Croissan'wich, Burger King and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 

Wednesday, October 28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Brosius latest Yankee to jump into free-agent n1arket 
Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. 
e new world opened up 
• 

one Saturday morning." ­
"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. HOLY So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the 
CROSS
full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course, you can talk with someone in 
'.~U COLLEGE
the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for P.O. Box 308
a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Table in joyce 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308
Center. We're a two-year, transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing 
219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole 
Website: http://www.hcc-nd.edu new world for your son or daughter. E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.cdu 
Right for you, right from the start. 
Women's Volleyball 
Thursday, Oct. 29th 7:00pm vs. Oral Roberts Saturday, Oct. 31st 7:00pm. vs. Syracuse 
Mens Tennis 
Friday, Oct. 30th 8:00pm vs. Baylor 
Associated Press regular season and played outstandingly at third base. He hit .3R3 in the postsea­NEWYOHK son, leading New York in hits (18). home 
World Series MVP Scott Brosius followed runs (4) and RB!s (15) then earned Series Bernie Williams into free agency, filing MVP honors by going 8-fnr-17 (.471) with Tuesday as the New York Yankees await­two homers and six RB!s. ed word on whether David Cone would Williams, who filed Monday, is seeking a exercise his $5.5 million option for 1999. deal of at least seven years, and probably 
Brosius, obtained by the Yankees from will want more than Mets catclwr Mike Oakland last November for Kenny Rognrs, Piazza, who agrn1~d to a record $Y1 mil­made $2.75 million this year, including lion, seven-year contract. bonuses, and the Yankees want him bark Cashman spokn with thP agents for both 
Cone, who is unlikely to exercise the Williams and Brosius and told them the 
option, also wants to return but is looking Yankees wanted their clients back. to negotiate an extension, a souree famil­"We're going to do whatever we can to iar the negotiations said on the condition make it fit given the curnmt financial cli­
he not be identified. mate of the payroll," Cashman said. 
Yankees general manager Brian Cone, a 20-game winner for the first Cashman said Tuesday the team's baseball time since 19RR, has until midnight EST people hadn't yet presented a plan to Wednesday to exercise his player option. owner George Steinbrenner. Cone's agent. Steve Fehr, said no deci­
"We need to formulate a proposal for sion had been made, but it sounded as if Scott and Bernie to consider," Cashman the pitcher, who went 20-7 with a 3.55 said. "We're going to get together, proba­ERA, would preserve his freedom for now bly in the next few weeks, have an organi­rather than exereis1~ his option. zational meeting, formulate a plan and "I've told them if they wanted to make make a proposal." an offer, they should make an offer," 
Brosius, a first-time All-Star, hit .300 Cashman said. "Hight now he's a signed with 19 homers and 98 HB!s during the player until he tells us he's not." 


Men's Basketball 
Friday, Oct. 30th 7:30pm Blue & Gold 
Scrimmage 

Soccer Women's Friday, Oct. 30th 5:00pm 
vs. Wisconsin Sunday, Nov. 1st 1:00pm vs. Syracuse Men's 
r

Friday, Oct. 30th 7:30pm vs. West Virginia 

I 
~--~-----------­
I page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, October 28, 1998 
• SMC SOCCER
-
Belles unable to continue 3-1 streak with loss to Olivet 
By MOLLY McVOY An improvement in their At one point, the referees had ly put the pressure on and, as a a team they barely lost to in Sports Writer passing game and good com­to stop the game and send result, scored often. pre-season 1-0. munication helped the Belles Olivet's athletic director to the "They got to the ball before The team is very positive 
After an impressive 3-1 have such a successful week. stands to control Olivet's spec­we did and stepped up the pace about this game. Saint Mary's streak over break, Saint Mary's Junior forward Katie Barger tators. This, along with Olivet's of the game," said Wychocki. feels it has improved greatly had a rough loss to Olivet and freshman forward Erin very aggressive style of soccer, The Belles felt they needed to and, if the Belles play to their Tuesday. Ziegler led the way on offense, made for an interesting game. be more aggressive and match potential, Goshen may fall. 
The Belles had a great fall while senior goalie Joanne "They !Olivet] weren't playing Olivet's fast, aggressive type of "We just need to get back the break. winning three of the four Wagner assisted with some the ball," said junior forward game. The crowd also began to passing game we had last week. games they played. On Oct. 17, great saves. Erin McCabe, "They were play­rattle them by the second half We will do very well if we come tht> Belles defeated Alma "This was finally the Belles' ing you." of the game. out strong and play aggressive CollPge 1-0, and on Oct. 19 soccer we have been working The Saint Mary's squad did These three wins and two the entire way through," said frPshman midfielder Melissa towards all year,""said fresh­score early on a goal by losses brings the Belles record Priganc. "We need to not give \\\rhorki led the Belles to a 3-0 man forward Kristen Priganc of Wychocki, but could not keep to 6-10-2 on the season. This up a minute of the game." Yi;·torv over Rockford with a the week's performances. its concentration. loss to Olivet did eliminate the Wychocki stated, "We're hat trit:k. Tuesday's game, on the other As in most of the losses Saint Belles from league play. going to definitely beat them." 
I lope got the better of Saint hand, was an entirely different Mary's has recorded this year, Consequently, their upcoming Mary's on Oct. 21; winning 4-1. story. According to every player Olivet kept the ball at the Belles game against Goshen But the team regrouped and reached, Olivet was the most goal for the majority of the is their last of the sea­easily defeated Defiance on hostile environment in which game. Wagner did have some son. Friday, the Belles Saturday 5-0 . they had ever played. nice saves, but Olivet continual-have a rematch with 
• US SOCCER 
Arena sets new goals for US team 
Associated Press Liverpool's Brad Friedel, is· the Jose, Calif., and he said up to half his American team strong. roster will have no international expe­NEW YORK "W{;l need solid defenders," Arena rience. 
Bruce Arena promises a shakeup of said. "We need help in the midfield. "''m not worried initially by wins and the U.S. soccer team: The old players We need help up front." losses," Arena said. "Our goal is to are out, and look for lots of new faces Arena led ~he University. of Vi;rginia }lave by the year 2000 a team that can the next two years. to five NCAA/titles andtookD,C, United ad:vancet~:Jthe·fin.al·. 32<!' 
"We have to get as many young play­tocharnpionships in 1996 and 1997 -The United States won't begin quali­ers in the mix early and see how they the first two seasons ofMajor League fying for the 2002 World Cup until late adapt to international soccer," Arena S()t::(':er -and the 1998 MLS final last iJ1. 2000. Arena ~op(;)s to develop said Tuesday after receiving a four~ Vy.e~k~pd.j;)ilj!IIV:I' . . < . . . ,r'> Atnericfl;n.s ~l1ohave stlcC~ede.djn MLS year contract to coach the United -l3ob Contiguglia, who in A:P-gust and disputes the notion of undiscov­States. "These players lack interna­replaced Alan Rothenberg as the U.S. ered talents waiting .to be .found out­tional experience, but they don't lack Soccer Federation president, wanted side the professional and youth ability." e o SJ,Jcce"d. $~Jll: · the 
Arena replaces Steve Sampson:*who N. "bOrn ¢~a(;h · ···.a: arl~:·a~rt~ldos w~H{ing resigned June 29, four days after the U team theWorldCup. around York City right riow? 1 United States finished an 0-3 World "We want~ send a11emphatic mes-don't think so," hesaid. · Cup. The core group of players who.led sag~.".~~l~:~ank $t~fp.l)rech~~;Jhe Are!lasett o Q~alifyfor the the team in the '90s ~.. John Harkes; ttSSE'sii"e:kec~ttve director. "We ~~ tbe ·2<l02 ton ... ...•.. .. e. . ..·. ·~hen try to get
Tab Ramos, Eric Wynalda, Alexi Lalas f~deration · b¢lieve in our leag:ue, we outof the first round. and Marcelo Balboa .....;. have slowed b~lieve in the strength of ourleague, "Are the games in 1998 as important with age and suitable replacements W¢ bell~ ·· Atge an playf<lr and as the games in 2000 and 2001? No," have yetto appear f'roirt youth teains. 
webel~t! ?9~?~<\.·· .. ··.. l:i~.said .. " thin .... e:lj)ii~ the 
Only at goalkeeper,where the United en~· ............·. ... .. . . e an••exbihi~ .L year2000 siif ..... ,Ji~etlto be 
States has Leicester's Kasey Keller and · on Nov. § against Australia atSan showing soine progress." 


• 
-YOGA
~ 
g A IPHYSIICAL MIENTAL & SIP~RITUAL WORKOUT. !DIEAL FOR STRESS MANAGIEMIENT. FliEXIIIBIIILIITY. 
STRENGTH. 
MONDAYS I I /2-! 2/7 5:20-6:30 RSRC $20 
RELAXATION TRAINING 
LIEARN IPHYSIICAL & MIENTAL TIECHNIQUES TO IINDUCIE FIEIELIINGS OF RIELAXATIION & CALM\. 
FRIIDAYS 11/6. 13. 20 4:00-5:00 RSRC $10 RIEGIISTRATIION IBIEGIINS 7:45AM, THURS. 110/29 @ THIE RSRC. CALL 11-5965 FOR MORIE IINFO. 
Notre Dame Council on International Business 
Development 


NDCIBD 
7-1~1: e. c 0 LJ /VI L if 
presents ... 
All Council Meeting 
Agenda Includes: 
IBC Alumni 
(Consultants, Investment Bankers, Accountants, etc.) 
Open Forum in Panel Format Any and all questions will be answered! 
All members and majors welcome! 
Wednesday, October 28, 1998 101 Debartolo at 7:00 pnt 

Wednesday, October 28, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Mid-season surge serves Saint Mary's into third place 
By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
In the second half of the sea­son. Saint Mary's volleyball team has discovered what lil'e is likn on thn winning side of the court. 
Taking four of five matches ovN fall break. the Belles have advanc:nd to third place in the confen~nce. Standing at 14-13. tlu~y havn mmpiled a winning rnc:ord for t.hn first limn this srmson al'lnr a wnak 3-5 start. 
"Wp'vn rnally come into our­snlvns as playnrs," coach .lnnnin .loycn said. "J think wn'vn pnaknd at the right lirntL" 
Swiping wins from Olivet (I 5-h. I !i-5. I 5-6), Kalamazoo (lh-14. 10-15, 15-6, 15-13), o\lbion (15-1), 15-10, 10-15, 15­
12) and Alma ( 17-15, 15-11. l 5-12). Saint Mary's now boasts an 11-5 lnagun rncord. Tlw loam's only trouhln ovnr lm~ak ~~amn against cross-town rival Bnthel Collr.gn, which ddnatnd the Br.llns in thrnr1 matdws(l5-5, 15-12. 15-13). 
"It was nwn~ of a disappoint­nwnt losing to Br.thr.I because of the rivalry," 5-foot-11 junior Jayne Ozbolt said. "We played a really strong week though." 
Against Alma last week, a team effort contributed to a four-game victory over a team who had beaten them earlier in the season. 
Despite forgetting her con­tacts, tri-captain Ozbolt had the focus. 
Matching freshman Suzanne Martin, sho tallied two keyser­vice acr.s, while freshman Jolie LnB(1au providr.d the defense with thme blocks. 
"I LeBeau) really runs the middle for us," Joyce said . "She's ready to crunch any­thing that comes her way." 
Angie Meyers and Agnes Bill were also on the prowl for big numbers. Meyers rngistered 17 digs and Bill smashed 19 kills. 
Meyers is now averaging live digs per eonference game. 
"Those are all-American slats," .Ioyce said. "I don't know if she'll get named ali­Arneriean ... but that's a won­derful stat to have." 
The Belles demonstrated the same power against Albion, defeating th(~ Britons in three 

THIS HALLOWEEN SEASON, GIVE THE GIFTOF LIFE AT THE WVFI 640 AM BLOOD DRIVE. 
+ +. 
JOIN THE FESTIVITIES OH THURSAY OC:T.l9 IH THE LAFORTUNE BALLROOM, FROM 9:30AM TO J.:J.OPM 

SIGN UP NOW BY CALLING lEN AT 
4X3199 
straight games. 
.Junior tri-captain Bill again paved the way with 22 kills while Meyers provided 14 digs and two service aces. Freshman Brianna Canter chipped in with 12 digs. 
Ozbolt and LeBeau each totaled five key blocks and helped hold the pace against the Britons. ­
Despite starting out strong in the match, the Belles lapsed in the third game, allowing Albion to take one. 
"We were the ones making the mistakes," Ozbolt said. "It wasn't like they were doing anything to hurt us. We would hit it into the net or miss a serve, but we were able to come baek." 
The Belles will close out their season this weekend at the Midwest Invitational at Calvin College. If the Belles can con­tinue the upswing in their game, they will top ofT a 7-3 October record. 
"I'm glad it's ending on a good note," Ozbolt said. "Who knows what might have hap­pened if the season was a little longer." 


The Observer/Laura Becker 
Freshman Jolie LeBeau (8) gave the Belles the defense'they needed 
against Alma, providing three blocks. 
the American League in ERA
Yankees-

and finished the season as one of 
the best pitchers in the league, continued from page 24 but the Yankees couldn't lind a 
spot for him in their postseason executive's triumvrant of former rotation. Same for Ramiro General Manager Bob Watson, Mendoza, who had a better win­former Farm Director Gene ning percentage than 80 percent Michael, and eurrent General of the American League. Manager Brian Cashman, the If you think that their pitching Yankees were so deep that their is good, their hitting is better. backups could have swept most Consider their outfield: Bernie teams in the World Series. Williams led the AL in average; Consider this: Hideki lrabu led Paul O'Neill had another solid 
T 


Thursday, October 29, 1998 Friday, October 30, 1998 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
The Notre Dame community is asked 
o attend the Thursday evening performance. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
It's Finally Here!!! 
Thursday, 
Have fun 

Oct. 29 
while you

7-9pm 
share your

LaFortune 
faith&make 

Ballroom 
new friends. 
' • •t d• 

Come get your Emmaus small group started. 0MPU5 Receive your small group candle & materials. MINISTRY Enjoy an evening of FAITH, FUN, and FRIENDSHIP. 
•••and you re 1nv1 e • 
year, batting well over .300 as a  
member of the 20-20 club; and  
the platoon of Chad Curtis, Tim  
Haines, and Darryl Strawberry  
put up some of the best left field  
numbers in baseball. Oh, yeah,  
then they eall Shane Spencer up  
who. if not for being called up in  
Septembnr, might have aetually  
made McGwire-Sosa a three­man race, and Hicky Ledee, who  - 
hit roughly . 700 in the World  
Series. The infield? Their worst­ 
hitting infielder, Scott Brosius,  
was the World Series MVP.  
while Derek Jeter and Chuck  
Knoblauch are the best double­ 
play combination in the league,  
and Tino Martinez is the most  
unsung hero on the team.  
To compare the Yankees to  
teams in the pre-World War II  
era would be like trying to com­ 
pare apples and oranges. There  
were significantly less things to  
worry about, not to mention sig­ 
nificantly less teams in the  
league. Of the teams that played  
in this era, the best was the  
1937-39 Yankees. This team,  
flush with six future llall of  
Famers, is the most similar of  
these pre-World War Il teams to  
the 1998 Yankees. Thier depth is what made them unstoppable,  ..  
and the same was true of this  
year's Yankees; someone differ­ 
ent would step up every night  
and contribute.  
Were the 1998 Yankees better  
than the 1937-39 Yankees?  
We'll never know that because  
they will never play one another,  
and the teams they played  - 
against and times were striking­ 
ly different. Were the 1998  
Yankees better than the 1974-76  
Beds? Yes. In the two years that  
they won the World Series, not  
one pitcher won more than 15  
games. Furthermore, there are  
only three players who were  
llall of Fame ealiber: Joe  
Morgan, Johnny Bench, and Pete  
Hose. Morgan is better known as  
a sportscaster than a player,  
Bench hawks suits for Michiana  
Men's Clothing Stores, and when  
Hose is not on the Home  
Shopping Network you can bet  
he's in Vegas.  
In an era of luxury boxes,  ,.  
shared revenues, expansion  
drafts. and trades based on lis­ 
cal ramifications morn than  
physical talent, the Yankees put  
together a brilliant team. Ev(~ry  
last player. from David Wells to  
llomer Bush, contributed and  
made the Yankees what they  
were: the greatest team in the  
modern era.  


page 22 
Football 
continued from page 24 
~-llU go through this season and l'Yl'ry Sl'ason you learn a lot about vour football team with each step you take. 
"TIH' kPy thing is whether ~-ou·rl' 1-5 or 5-1. is that you continue to improve and build on your strengths," he said. 
Davie, as well as Irish fans, is encouragPd by the team's pat­tPrn of chalking up wins each \YPek. Davie and Co. have quietly won 10 of their last 12. and the last seven in Notre Dame Stadium. 
During that stretch the Irish have needed three last-minute field goals and some game-win­ning drives late in the fourth quarter. But for the team, a win is a win. 
"The Army game proved that this team knows how to win and finds a way to win," Davie said "It hasn't been easy and it hasn't been pretty." 
The Cadets proved that no opponent should be ·taken light­ly, even if those opponents are Baylor, Boston College and Navy. 
'They realize that you have to go out there and play 60 min­utes every week," Davie said of his players. "We realize that nothing is going to come easy for this football team. We have to execute every week and because of that we ean take nothing for granted." 
Whether it's talk about a Hose Bowl berth for the first time since Knute Hoekne's days, or ESPN's LPe Corso saying that a team that can only beat Army by three points doesn't deserve· tickets to Pasadena. Davie and the Irish realize they need to win some games before winning a trip out West. 
The Observer • SPORTS 

"This team has also proved that its been able to keep its eye on the target," Davie said. "It's not easily influenced by outside opinion or outside issues. I think that's really important. 
"There's talk up here if things are going well or if they're going poorly or if things haven't start­ed," he added. "There are always issues at Notre Dame and I think because of that our players are pretty mature." 
The Irish also try to take things one day at a time. 
"You try to simplify things and try not complicate things with a whole lot of other issues," Davie said. "We need to trust one another and realize what's real­ly important, and that next game is really the most important thing." 
Former Irish offensive .coordi­
nator Dave Hoberts' Baylor Bears provide the next chal­lenge. The Bears can't wait for the end of what Roberts calls "Bloody October" -a four-game stretch of Texas A&M, Texas, Notre Dame and Kansas State, in that order and without a break. 
September wasn't too kind to the Bears, either. Despite beat­ing a North Carolina State team that had just knocked off Florida State, Baylor lost its opener to the Beavers of Oregon State and Colorado edged out the Bears 18-16. 
Baylor knows what it's like to play high caliber college football, and Davie's days at Texas A&M taught him that. 
"This will be the 11th time I've been able to play against Baylor," Davie said. "I have an Wednesday, October 28, 1998 


X-Country 
continued from page 24 
time of 18:50. Alison Klemmer, Erin Olson and Nicole LaSelle were the other Irish scoring runners, all lin­ishing the run under 19:14. 
Kristin Wunder, who fin­ished 3(>th with a time of 
19:12 at the Central Collegiate Championships Oct. 16, indi­cated that the Irish are still having a hard time duplicating practice times at the meet. 
"Our practices are solid and we are focused on making that count when we need it," Wunder explained. "This weekend (the Big East Championship) is what we are pointing at for a good race." 
The inability of the Irish to make a good all-around team run at the meets hasn't hurt them yet this year. The Big East Championships. to be run this weekend in Boston, Mass, gives the team the opportunity
awful lot of respect for that pro­to put the sub-par efforts of 
gram. It's always a physical the last few weeks behind 
game they always have great them. After the Big East 
athletes." Championship, only the Nov. 
Davie's greatest concern lies in 14 District IV meet is left on how tailback Autry Denson has the guaranteed schedule. been contained in recent outings The Irish hope to add one and with how Jarious Jackson more: the NCAA and the offensive line will handle Championships on Nov. 23. the attacking Bear defense. 
"I doubt that we'll play a team this year that blitzes as much as Baylor," Davie said. "They're impressive and I think they're playing good defense right now. We're really trying to treat this game like it's 0-0. 
"I do have a lot of confidence in this football team because we have a lot kids in this program who have been through a lot of things, and I think that's part of being at Notre Dame," Davie said. 


CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL The heart cannot feel what the eyes have not seen. CONCERNS 
Gabriel Alejandra Anthony Barber, Jr. 
Erin Atwell Kathryn Cousino 
Angela Carbonetti Chris Fretel 
Kristin Conners Christopher Kusek 
Michele Costello Congratulations and thanks to the over 230 participants in the Patience McHenry 
Gina Couri Maria Miguel 
Erika Fueluneyer Mrunalee Patil 
Katherine Gallagher Michelle Rubner 
Jennifer Glodek Sophia Santos
Appalachia Seminar 

Rebecca Hammel Celeste Warda Marjorie Hill 
Children & Poverty Seminar
jeremy Howe Sarah Asmuth Leah Ingraham Meagan Carlevato
• Christine Mcintyre Cultural Diversity Seminar Peter Cesaro 
Molly McLeod Marisol Chan Daniel Mullen Elizabeth Dailey 
Dominican Republic Seminar
Mark Nakajima Monica Diaz 
Kori Pienovi Kelly Dunn 
Jennifer Ptacin JulieHodek
Washington Seminar 

Michael Regan jennifer lmundo 
)enifer Rinner Maureen Kinder 
Nicole Stenke Matthew Kuhn 
Mary Tully jesus Munoz
who represented The University of Notre Dame and Saint 
Karen Wiener Cordelia Nance
Mary's College during Fall Break in service and experiential 
Andrew Olejnik Sabriya Rice 

Matthew Brummer Amanda Roberts Diana Buran Andrea Selak Luisa Heredia Demetra Smith 
-learning at 25 sites across the nation and the Dominican Republic.
jamiko Rose David Tyler joseph Wiltberger Monica Wisner Brian Wolford 
Michael Andersen Sean Caufield Matthew Filip Bill Irvine Heidi Longar Nicole Murphy Marc Ricchiute Rich Stasica Holly Andrews Rachael Clark Mary Finley Rich janor IngridLouw Thomas Myrter Erin Riopko Judson Strauch 
Kristi Andrews Laura Colleton Katherine Flanagan julianne jenkins Robert Ludwikoski Maureen Neville john Roach Benjamin Swigle 
Sara Andrews Megan Conlon Nena Foster Heather Jeno Elizabeth Lynch Hilary Nindorf Erin Rockenhaus Kelli Swinarski 
.... 
Kelly Asbury Frances Contreras Katherine Foul Megan Juckniess Ian MacKenzie Molly Niquette Emily Roebuck Leah Thomas Sofia Barbato Patrick Coyle Scott Friedman Rhodessa Kabatay Nora Martin Meghan O'Brien Sean Ryker William Varettoni Matt Barkley john Crisham Sarah Gallagher Natasha Kavalauskas Loren Masterson Megan O'Gorman Stephen Schacht Theresa Vasoli Amy Batt Amy Crownover Colleen Garvey Marita Keane Beth Maurella jacelyn O'Malley Carey Schlett Jessica Walrath Amanda Bauer jordan Cumes Maryanne Garvie Eileen Kelly Mary Anne McAloon Gerard Olinger Sarah Schneider Michael Walsh Angela Bauer Lauren Cutuly Colleen Gaughen Michael Kiernan Brandan McCarthy Rebecca Palmer Carl Schwab Michael Walter Daniel Bennett )eana D'Agostino Charles Gengler jennifer King Christopher McCarthy Kristin Patrick Beau Schweitzer Kathleen Ward Stasia Bijak John Daily Darcy Gibbons Michael Kinninger Sheila McCarthy Joni Payne Daniel Scott Heather Waring Mamie Bowen Suzanne Decker Caroline Grady Colleen Rinnon jean McCue Jill Pentimonti Brian Simolon Carmen Weber Shay Boyle Kevin Dewan Tim Greene Kathryn Koch Matthew McGarry Sandra Peterson Patricia Simone julie Wernick Allison Brandt Andrew DiBella Lynette Grypp joanne Koehl Jennifer McLaren Brandon Ponce EllenSinis Erin West Gordon Braun Donielle Dodde Elizabeth Hanpeter Carol Konrad David McManamon Jacquelyn Pasek Holly Skinner Justin Westervelt Andrew Brennan Chenell Donadee Christina Hascall julia Koslow Maggie Meek Lindsey Power Erin Smith Andrew Whiting Dan Brosmer Jed Donahue Gretchen Hasselbring Caroline Kronk Michael Miazga Anne Preston Kathleen Smith jovan Willford Kristin Brown Brendan Dowdall Thomas Herman Chiara Kruse David Mikolyzk Jim Qualters Lindsey Smith Amy Buettner Erik Eiswirth Lauren Herring Janelle LaBine Colleen Milligan Stephen Recupero Stacey Smith Rosemary Caballero Rene Ernst Courtney Howlett Tom Lamprecht ·james Montoya Allison Reilly David Spinola Mary Calsin Winona Farias Gretchen Hranac Bernadette Kipari Mirjam Mueller Margaret Remstad Sarah Springer 
~----~-----------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------------------~--------­
Wednesday, October 28, 1998 The Observer • TODAY LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN 
FOXTROT 
DILBERT 
OOGBERT THE CONSULTAI-JT E ~============~~ o

®
OUR TAR.GET MAR\<.ET 
~ 
I5 THE GULLIBLE 
" 
T'\OP-ON 5EGI"\ENI. 
~ 
E 
0 
u 
t 
~ 
:0 
~ 
~ 



CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 26 Le Carre character
127, to3 George5 Virgule 29 Methodology10St. N1ck 32 Estate papers 
accessory 14 The top 
33 Gunk 
34 Champagne ---!" 
15 "Remember the Tony of golf 
16 "Ars Amatoria" 36 --vera poet 37 Middays 
17 Surg1cal site in 38 Money to tide the Beaver one over State? 
39lt's west of N.C. 19 Kid's phrase of 
40 Just 
request 41 "What·--I 20Chang's do?"
Siamese twin 42 Nielsen stats211tch 44 Comic Charles 22 Full moon color 
Nelson-­
24Commedia 45 Unpleasant task 
dell'-­46 Hospital unit 
25 Rapper who co-starred in 
47 Declarer "New Jack City" 50 Swiss river 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
BRACEII s I 
SIS CAM 
A E A 0 S N 0 T E H A L E 0 N T 0 P 0 F T H E W 0 R L D BAIL.PATE.ARIA.

.,,..,.ELYN
BASEfHIT ICY.LIU LEM ARC WONT 
~•.,.
0 H N 0 S I T N I L 
P 0 D. C T S S J_~ E lAM S SWELLS GORE.MAT .TREE.TAV I.UPTO T I P 0 F T H E I C E B E R G 
IMINIHOLEILEROI NENE OUST I RENE 
51 "--is me!" 54 Glitzy sign 55 Doc from the 
Old L!ne State? 58 Cartoonist AI 59 Chorus girls? so The first: Abbr. 61 Fashion's 
Klensch &2 1956 Four Lads hit"--Muehl" &3 It's just for openers 
DOWN 
1 Supergarb 2 ·--the rooftop. (Christmas lyric) 3 Arctic Ocean sighting 4 Phone line abbr. 5---pants (wiseguy) & Jessica of 
24 Sound system 37 Rural 49 Kin of "Uh-oh!" 

"Frances" 
in the Keystone 41 Goddess of 50 Envelope abbr. 7 Right-hand State? agriculture 51 Alert person 43 Suffix with 52 Leave off 
25 Humor not for 

a --cone elephant 53 Periphery
dummies 9 Decorated 44 Least cooked 56 "Strange Magic" 
26 Quite a hit 
46 "Yippee!" rock band 

officers 
27 Distance runner 
47 Suffix with utter 57 1988 Dennis 

10 Driver's license 
28 Actress Massey 48 --piccata Quaid remake 

in the Gem State? 29 Chlorinated waters
11 Russian "John" 
30 1988 Olympics Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

12 Engine knock 
site are available by touch-tone phone: 

13 Actress 
31 Incense uential 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute).

McClurg 
q Annual subscnp\ions are ava1lable for the 18 Fishing gear 33 Pagoda sounds best of Sunday crosswords from the last 23--room 35 "Handy" man 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS 
page 23 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: julia Roberts. Bill Gates, Annie Potts, jonas Salk 
Happy Birlhday: Look lo your strengths lo help you ihrough any difficult times ihal you encounter. Nothing will turn out to be quite as bad as you anticipate, so don't wony. Instead, forge ahead and be sure to take advantage of any perk ihat may come your way. This can be a highly favorable year for rou if you take the time to develop rour skills and your ideas. Your numbers: 6, IS, 19, 24, 33,42 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): ( Jpportunitit's will continue to unfold if you mingle \\'ath those in positions of power. Your ideas will be well­received; however, deception will prevail if you gel intimately involved with business associates. 0000 
TAURUS (Aprii10-May 20): You will have no difficuhy borrowing today. Sudden changes in your finan­cial picture and position in life are apt to happen if you have executed your intentions carefully. 00 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): 11-Us is a day that lends itself to love. Take advantage of your abilities and entice the mate of your choice. You will be creative and will allow somt> of your best work unfold. 00000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): You can make major gains where career and hnances are concerned if you direct your enl~rgy into achievement. Your inluilion will be in top form, giving you insight inlo future trends. 000 
lEO (july 23-Aug. 22): You can invest successfully with partners today. Your inluition will give you valuable knowledge. Socialize with people who are in a position to help you oblain )'Our goals. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sepl. 22): You can achieve if you take extra work home with you. Colleagues may be jealous of your talent to organize ~1nd put additional detail into )'Our pro­jects. Don't get involved in idle chat­ler at work. 000 
liBRA (Sepl. 23-0cl. 22): Pleasure trips will prove enlighlening. Take heed of the advice g"•en by close friends and relalives. Take lime lo help children wilh !heir endeavors. Sctf-improvemenl projects will show favorable results. 00000 
SCORPIO (Ocl. 23-Nov. 21): Your ideas fur small business w1!1 be lucra­tive if you follow them ihrough lo completion. Puttmg m overlime will also bring you recognition and 
r('wards from superiors. 00 

SAGilTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): Your unique ideas will be well· received. You can communicate with case and get your point across well. Travel will provide you wilh ihe adventure and excitement you require. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 19): Your original ideas for ways of mak­ing money will pay off. Titink about your business and try to incorporate your mate as your partner II will be to your advanlage lo follow your gul fcdings. 000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will have good ideas regardmg edu­calional pursuils. You can help a friend or relative make the righl deci­sion. Be aware of your ability to intlu· ence olhers. 000 
·­

PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): If you work diligenll)' and behmd the scenes, recognition and rewards will come your way. Don't get •m·olved in gossip. You should lake care of legal matters and personal paperwork 000 
Birthday Baby: You were born to discover. You have an inner sense ihal will lead you to where the action is. You need mental stimulation in order to bt> hap_ry. Your seriousness may stand in ihe way of the things you would like to achieve. 
(Need advicd Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.aslroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com.) 
{'ll'NH Unn•t•r-..tl ,.,....., S\·ndl(.ll(' 
• OF INTEREST 
., ·:~, ' 
~it~~f:1k ,,:::::%"~~~~%­
!':' ' Holy Cross Associates will be holding an informa­tion session today at 7 p.m. at the Center· for Social Concerns. Feel free to stop by to pick up an applica­tion, ask questions, or hear more about HCA's Chile program.. The Nanovic Institute for European Studies pre­sents-Raymond Grew, University or Michigan, lecturing on: "Catholics and Liberty: A Conflict That Helped Shape European History," today at 4:30p.m. in room 129 DeBartolo Hall. The Department of Government nnd lnternntlonal Studies invites students to attend a meeting on "Careers in Public Service" today between 4-5:30 p.m. in the Montgomery Theater in LaFortune. ThH purpose of the meeting is to provide students with information about career opportunities in public service and how to make the best use or their time here at Notre Dame to prepare for them, Caudax McNair Recruitment Meeting will be held tonight at'6 p.m. in 116 O'Shag. All students who are interested in graduate school and are either from low· income families or minorities should attend. 
Wanted: Repo.rters 
• 

and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 


0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 0 Enclosed is $45 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name ____________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have 
Address ______________________________________ 
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City--------State ____ Zip_______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: 

The Observer 
and mail to: 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer 
--~---~-------~-~-­
-------~----~~ 
---~~---------­
~­
! 

• Just one week after 
• Rebounding Belles 
winning the World 
squad looks to end off 
Series, a trio ofYankees 
season on a winning 
prepare to play the free 
note. 
agency market. 
PORTS 
p. 19 
p.21 

page 24 -----------------------O THE ----------------Wednesday, October 28, 1998
BSERVER 

• fOOTBAll 
• Our IN LEFT fiELD 
Irish keep focus set on finishing season 
World Series 
Davies team in rhythm to 

champs the 
complete final five-game 
best team in 
stretch, one game at a time 
modern era
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Sports Edirm 
By JOHN COPPOLELLA
Monday night, coaches at the premier college 
Sports Columnisr 
programs in the country got a look at where they rank and what their chances are in the Bowl 
Are 1998's New York Championship Standings. 
Yankees the greatest team of Except Irish head coach Bob Davie, who didn't all time? 
take a glance. 
The question has been "We're not going to be in them," Davie said. "So, posed ever since the Yankees I'm not going to peek." 
began their assault on theBut the Irish fans around the world who did 1906 Chicago Cubs single­review the standings probably liked what they saw. 
season victory record. 
UCLA, snagging the No. 1 rank, is on pace for a Although the Yankees fell Fiesta Bowl showdown with No. 2 Ohio State, leav­short of this record, they did ing empty slots in Pasadena and putting a Rose win 125 games and have Bowl berth within Notre Dame's grasp. 
been recognized by manyThe Irish placed 16th, which is exactly where sportswriters as the greatest
they sit in the Associated Press and USA 
team ever.
Today/ESPN poils. The BCS stanuings, which ulti­Nevertheless, ESPNmately determine who plays in the Jan. 4 Fiesta Sportszone ranks the Yankees Bowl for the national championship, take into con­as the sixth-best team in sideration the polls, computer ratings, strength of baseball's history. Who isschedule, win-loss records and the opinions of a right? None Of them.
group of NASA physicists. 
Any idiot or even the most Still, none of those things concern Davie, as his die-hard Boston Red Sox fanfocus remains on "the target" and on improving his (sort of the same thing) canteam. 
tell you that the Yankees "The bottom line is to keep your eye on the tar­were the best team this year get," Davie said. "Don't complicate things, don't get 
-
and the most dominant team caught up in the hype. We have a simple goal and of the 1990s. This is the con­that is to improve. We need to take care of the sensus around most of major things we can control and find a way to be 6-1." 
league baseball and the team Notre Dame's two bye weeks are in the past and in the modern era that the the remaining five weeks of the season will pass in Yankees have been most a heartbeat. With five games left on the slate, Davie closely compared to is the hopes his team will gel. 
Cincinnati Reds' Big Red"I think it's critical we get into a rhythm and Machine from 1974-76. 
maintain that rhythm," Davie said. "Each week as 


• . , • The Observer/John Daily 
SqueeZing out a Win aga1n~t ~rmy on the !1eld goal by Jim Sanson (middle), the Irish will see FOOTBALL I page 22 set out to play a more conv1nc1ng game this Saturday against Baylor. 
• WOMEN's CROSS COUNTRY 
Stepping into the Big East Championships 
By ALAN P. WASIELEWSKI the final national meet. The field Sports Writer of teams has been expanded this year, and one of Notre Dame's 
The cross country season is top goals was to qualify for the winding to a close, but the great nationals. races of the season have yet to "We didn't help or hurt our­
.. be run. selves," JoAnna Deeter said. The Big East Championships "There was good competition will be the next test which the running against us and it was a Notre Dame women's team must chance to see where we are as a face. The pressure of making the team and where we were going. best runs of the season is mount­We know we still have to adjust ing. some things for the next meet." Last weekend, the women had Deeter continued her drive a pre-national meet in Ann toward All-American status with Arbor, Mich. The team finis.hed her fourth win of the season. eighth in a 15-team field at the Her time of 17:37 was five sec­Michigan lnterregio·nal that onds better than second place showcased some of the top Janelle Kent of Wake Forest. teams in the country. Michigan Deeter has wins in all four races won the meet with a score of 71. she has run: the National Georgetown, Wake Forest, Catholic, Notre Dame Washington, William & Mary, Invitational, the Wolf & Kettle Florida and Bowling Green also Invitational and the Michigan finished ahead of Notre Dame. Interregional. Michigan came into the meet "I was excited about the race ranked in the top five with Wake but it really means nothing right Forest, Georgetown, Washington now. That kind of win later in and Florida also boasting top 20 the season is more important." rankings. said Deeter. The meet was important for Patti Rice finished second on drawing the attention of the the team at 37th place with a National Championship commit­tee -that delegates the seeds for see X-COUNTRY I page 22 

The Observer/John Daily 

Fresh off a lackluster proformance at Michigan the Irish head into 
the Big East Championships looking to turn the 'tide.  
SPORTS ATA GLANCE  -~  

vs Baylor vs. West Virginia Saturday, 2:30p.m. Friday, 7:30 p.m. 
'if 

vs. Wisconsin vs. Oral Roberts Friday, 5 p.m. @' Thursday, 7 p.m. 
Other teams from the "mod­ern" or post-World War Il era worthy of mention according to ESPN include the 1969-71 Baltimore Orioles. 1951-53 Yankees. and 1953-55 Dodgers. 
So what is so different about the modern era? Well, of the five teams that ESPN rated above the Yankees, four of them had their glory years before 1940. This is before World War II, before the first $100,000 contract. before the amateur draft, before free agency, hefore luxury boxes and before baseball was the business ithas becorne today. 
Even the fifth team, the 1974-76 Reds, had the luxury of not having to fight for free agents, ration out multi-mil­lion dollar contracts, and worry about the bottom line before the outcome. 
This year's Yankees were arguably under the most pressure that any team had ever been under to perform. Not only do they play in New York. not only is their owner George Steinbrenner, not only do they have to live up to his­tory, butthey had to do it with the whole world watch­ing their every move. 
The Yankees thrived because they were the deep­est team ever put together. The brainchild of a baseball 
see YANKEES I page 21 
• 
Cross Country at Big East Championships at Boston Friday, 10:30 a.m. 







