


• Despite a long list of summer blockbusters, there 
• The recent U.S. embassy bombings sent 
were some movies -like the Jennifer Love Hewitt 
shock waves through the nation, but tensions 
Wednesday
flick "Can't Hardly Wait" -that didn't fare as well at 
in the region had been building for some 
rhe box office, and Scene reviewed two of them. 
time, according to an 
AUGUST26,
NO professor. News • 3
Scene·10 
1998 
THE 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOLXXXII N0.3 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
ND: Report, article wrongfully named ND players 
'THE STORY AS 
REPORTED BY fox NEWS AND REPEATED IN THE OBSERVER WAS INAC­CURATE, STUDENTS 

WERE NAMED WHO WERE NO WAY INVOLVED IN THIS RUL­ING.' 
DENNIS MOORE 
DIRECTO/i OF PUBLIC RHLATWNS 

THE 

wave 
OF THE 

Pictured left: A Saint Marys student takes advantage of changes in technology made in dnrmrooms. 
The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 

Profs use new technology as teaching tool 


By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Sainr Mary"s News Ediror 
.ftu~ lneandnla is not content to let his studnnts usn the lnttmwt just for fun. 
With thn eomplntion of the multi-million dollar projHel to makn Saint Mary's wired, the Heligious Studins dnpartnwnt chairman plans to usn con­rwelions in student dorm rooms to keep his dassroom moving at tho spe1HI of tneh­nology. 
''J'vn been trying new things with t~lehnology and the Internet for the past three years," Incandela said. "It started slow and rudimentary with pnople e-mailing com­ments. Last year I learned that e-mail doesn't let discus­sions take place." 
In place of e-mailing, lncandela's students go to his Web site and use conferenc­ing software to interact with eaeh other outside the class­room. 
"People will go and com­ment on someone else's thoughts that are posted or even post a comment to a 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
Associate News Editor 
Notre Dame issued a statement Tuesday contesting the accuracy of a Fox-28 news report Monday -and a subsequent Observer article citing that report -which named four Notre Dame football players in connection with an ongoing NCAA investigation. 
The investigation surrounds an out­ing to a Chicago Bulls game and gifts made to current and former players by South Bend resident Kimberly Ann Dunbar. Five current players have been reinstated following a declaration 
now topic that we will be dis­cussing," lncandela said. "The goal is, if the students are talking outside of class, they will be talking more inside the classroom. It's meant to supplement what takes place in the classroom." 
see FEATURE I page 6 
of their ineligibility to the NCAA, and the Fox report -later cited by The Observer -released the n(lmes of four current players as being those involved. 
"The story as reported by Fox News and repeated in The Observer was inaccurate, students were named who were in no way involved in this rul­ing," said Dennis Moore, director of Public Relations and Information at Notre Dame. 
Moore declined to specify which of those students may or may not be linked to the incident, and denounced the network's decision to broadcast 


Students flock to buy new meal plan 
ByTIM LOGAN 
Assistant News Editor 

Since it became available, almost 2,900 on-campus stu­dents have signed up for the Flex 14 meal plan, a new din­ing option which allows stu­dents up to 14 meals per week in the dining halls and $200 in credit each semester at campus food outlets. 
The plan is part of a larger initiative to make the student identification card into a key card which students can use to pay for dining, shopping and potentially even laundry on campus. Flex 14 is being initi­ated this semester after the necessary electronic infrastruc­ture was installed over the summer. 
With Flex 14, students can purchase meals at many cam­pus food outlets, including all those located in LaFortune Student Center and Heckers, the new 24-hour cafe in South Dining Hall. Participants will be able to purchase food with their ID card whenever these outlets are open. 
"I think this program makes things more convenient and more student oriented in pro­viding services," said director of ·Food Services David Prentkowski. 
Students who are enrolled in Flex 14 will pay the same amount for their meal plan as those who retain the traditional 21 meal system.• This is because Food Services budgets under the assumption that the average student only eats two­thirds of the available meals, aecording to Prentkowski. 
'The typical pattern of a typi­cal diner is 14 meals a week in the dining hall," he said. "The typical person wouldn't lose a thing." · 
He pointed to surveys done over the last two decades which repeatedly show that this number of meals are eaten each week. 
the names without University verifica­tion or comment. 
He further noted the reputations of the players were at stake, saying it was unfortunate that players who were erroneously identified would suf­fer from the report. 
The University took exception to the decision by The Observer to print the names of the four players and cite the Monday night Fox-28 9 p.m. broadcast without obtaining a response from the University. 
Notre Dame also disagreed with Fox­28's decision to air the names of the 
see PLAYERSI page 4 
"Someone who eats 15,16,18 meals each week would be get­ting a better deal than the typi­cal student. They'd be better off staying with the 21 meal plan," Prentkowski said. 
He does not foresee any sig­nificant change in either the volume of food prepared for each meal or the number of students eating at the dining halls as a result of the Flex 14 plan. As a result, Food Services will actually spend more money to implement the program than they did last year under the 21 meal plan. 
While there are no hard fig­ures available detailing the amount allocated per on-cam­pus student to Food Services, off-campus students can pay $1,535 for either the Flex 14 or the 21 meal plan. 
Students have until fall break to sign up for the Flex 14 plan, but those who join after Friday will have their food credit points prorated. 
This development is one in a series of changes which will make the student identification card a "key card" granting access to many Notre Dame facilities and serving as a form of payment at food and retail locations across campus. 
The card already allows access to OIT computer clus­ters, Rolfs Sports Recreation 
see MEAL PLAN I page 4 

Flex 14 
WHERE? 
• Sign up in the SOH basement at the access office. 
WHAT IS IT? 
• The plan allows students 14 meals per day in either dining hall and $200 in points for use at outlets in LaFortune and Reekers. 
/ 


• iNSIDE COlUMN 


Welcollle to 


CampND 
The hot wind tickles your hair as you lug boxes and sweat under the ruthless sun. You hear the joyous cries of reunions and watch Colleen Gaughen tearful parents reluc-Assistant Viewpoint Editor tantly depart from their children.There is a strange blend of excitement and uncertainty in the air as the hustle and bustle of activity buzzes about you. 
Welcome to Camp ND. 
The girls cabins are on this side of the lake, and the boys cabins are on the other. We have friendly counselors to assist and parent you during your stay here, as well as a color­ful collection of camp administrators and fac­ulty. Our camp director is highly respected, yet, as it is at most camps, he is very busy and seldom seen by the campers. 
We offer a wide variety of activities here at Camp NO, including arts and crafts, hikes through our rugged terrain, spiritual retreats, daily chapel masses, overnight sleepouts, singing 'round the camp fire, camp-wide movie screenings, and a host of wonderful sports. 
We even have a daily camp publication to keep you updated on what's going on around the camp. 
We have designated meal times, rest hour, and lights out, as well as all the comforts of community showers. Most of the rules inflict­ed on campers are reasonable, but past campers have found creative ways to dance around the ones which are not. 
There are annual cotillions, complete with chaperones, where you can mingle with campers from the other side of the lake and discuss the camp activities of the day. These social functions are key to community life as they provide endless hours of analysis over lanairds the next day. 
Everywhere you can see campers proudly wearing camp logo t-shirts, but despite the apparent uniformity you will meet people with backgrounds, values, perspectives, and ideas as different as night is from day. 
Some campers will jump right into the enthusiasm with their unlimited supply of energy, some will smile and work in their own quiet ways, and still others will sulk and scorn, wishing their parents had never made them come to this dumb camp. 
If you nurture them, the true friendships you make with your fellow campers, of all types, really will last a lifetime. Your memo­ries will pile up in boxes, and your heart will overflow with emotions you will undeniably cherish for years to come. 
There will be many experiences here at Camp NO you'll write home about, and sever­al you will not. You will be challenged, mis­understood, wronged, forgiven, loved, dis­liked, sought after, repelled, cared for, for­gotten, cursed and blessed ... all in the majestic setting of South Bend, Indiana. 
The rituals, mysteries, principles, and his­tories you will find are all part of the unique and exciting wonder of regularly attending Camp ND.Old campers are sorely missed, new campers are inevitably welcomed, and us middle campers find ourselves discover­ing, once again, all that this crazy place has is and has to offer. 
Yes, Camp NO is pretty neat, and I have no doubt you'll enjoy your stay with us. Now if there were only something we could do about the cost ... 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 

•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Kristi Klitsch  
Tim Logan  Sarah Dylag  
Finn Pressly  Graphics  
Sports  Mark Higgins  
M. Shannon Ryan  Production  
Viewpoint  Mark DeBoy  
I  Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
I 1­ Meg Kroener  

The Observer (USPS 59') 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccp[ during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc:: reserved. 

Wednesday, August 26, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Chancellor emphasizes responsibility in frat rush season 
BATON ROUGE, La. 

Chancellor William Jenkins addressed active fraternity members yesterday, emphasizing greater per­sonal responsibility during this fall's fraternity rush. 
Fraternity members should incorpo­rate integrity, personal responsibility and accountability not only into their academic life, but in social situations as well, Jenkins said. 
Pledges promise during induction ceremonies to avoid physical. psycho­logical, or sexual abuse or hazing of any kind, he said. 
"They express lofty ideals and if you live by your initiation pledge, I will sleep like a baby," Jenkins said. 
Fraternity pledges also promise to protect the health and safety of their­fraternity brothers, avoid illegal drugs and the misuse of alcohol and respect the property of others, he said. 
"I want to pledge to you this after­

Jenkins said he expects the same from the fraternities. 
Confront those who violate the code, Jenkins said. "It is up to you to put­things right." 
Jenkins already spoke to active sorority members, sorority rushees, and fraternity rushees this fall. 
Speaking to active fraternity mem­bers was the most important discus­sion Jenkins will have during the semester. he said. 
"I have been very supportive of' the Greek system through thick and thin," he said. 
Jenkins was centrally involved with the Greek community about one year ago when Sigma Alpha Epsilon pledge Benjamin Wynne, 20, died as a result of alcohol consumption at a Bid Day celebration. 
Fraternity rushees will receive their bids to join fraternities this Sunday, a night when bars are not open. The pledges will then have dinner at their on-campus fraternity houses and listen to speeches by prominent alumni. 
"I will work with you, I will assist you, I will protect you ... You in turn must assist and support the University," Jenkins said. 
Fraternity members have many opportunities at the University, such as developing leadership skills and life-long friendships, participating in service projects and giving to chari­ties, he said. 
• NORTH CAROLINA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Cops punish at least 430 at large party 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

The totals from the Brent Road party have been rolling in since Sunday morning, with citations abounding and a few arrests as well. Raleigh Police Department Lt. Everett gave a total number of 449 charges, with 13 of those con­stituted by actual arrests. Arrests included such behaviors as "drunk and disruptive, driving with a license that had been revoked and trying to incite a riot," Everett said. Public Safety Crime Prevention Officer Larry Ellis gave an initial estimate of 438 citations issued at the Brent Road party but said his numbers are not complete. Ellis said it was too early to give a definite number, as all information from the numerous checkpoints set up by Raleigh police and N.C. State Public Safety had not yet come in. Citations were issued mostly for underage drinking, Ellis said. There were about 200 Raleigh police officers and NCSU Public Safety officers on Brent Road Saturday night, Ellis estimat­ed. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA~ BERKELEY Activists stage rally against student 
BERKELEY, Calif. David Cash's attendance at UC Berkeley has compelled a group of Southern Californians to stage a protest on Sproul Plaza at noon tomorrow in the hopes of getting the sophomore from La Palma expelled. Cash is a close friend of Jeremy Strohmeyer, the 20-year-old man who has con­fessed to strangling a 7 -year-old girl to death in May 1997. At the time of the murder, the two were vacationing in Nevada with Cash's father. Cash has said he was with Strohmeyer seconds before the murder and thought his friend might hurt the girl. In addition to being at the scene of the crime moments before Iverson's murder, Cash did not report the crime even after his friend's confession immediately following the murder. His silence and his sub­sequent comments to the Los Angeles Times and on KLSX­. FM -a talk radio station in Los Angeles -has drawn fire. On one of the radio station's talk shows, Cash told the 
hosts that he would never be kicked out of the school. 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH ALABAMA 
Student indicted in 1996 shooting 
MOBILE, Ala. 
Sherri Massey, the suspected getaway driver in the 1996 shooting that left former University of South Alabama stu­dent Emily Landers paralyzed, recently turned herself' in to authorities. Massey had been indicted by a Mobile County grand jury June 16, but this information was kept secret as a precautionary measure until her arrest. In July, she left the University of Alabama where she had been studying chemi­cal engineering and returned to Mobile to turn herself in to officials. Massey was released on a $60,000 bond the day after her arrest. Landers will work with prosecutors to con­vict her and has expressed a wish to do so as quickly as pos­sible. She and a companion were leaving a nightclub April 6, 1996, when they were fired upon by Robert Allen, who was reportedly dating Massey at the time. Landers, who never positively identified Allen as her assailant, testified Massey was undoubtedly the girl who was "grinning at her" from a vehicle just a f~w moments before the shooting . 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Telescope site protests continue 
TUCSON. Ariz. 
American Indians say a UA policy requires them to have a permit to pray, creating the latest issue in the ongoing dis­pute over the construction of telescopes on Mount Graham, near Safford. The policy requires American Indians to submit written requests to enter the telescope site two days in advance and to specifY the area to be visited. The proposal, sent in October by University of Arizona officials to District' Ranger George Asmus, was obtained by the Southwest Center for Biological Diversity through the Freedom of Information Act this summer. "lt is a classic example of man's inhumanity to man," said Dr. Robert Witzeman, a member of the Mount Graham Coalition, a group opposed to the telescope construction. "It is me-first institutional arro­gance and the rest of the world be damned." Buddy Powell, associate director of UA's Steward Observatory. said the poli­cy was designed to accommodate American Indians who wish to gain access to high peaks in area mountains. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather.,forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
~ .' 
H L 

Wednesday ~ 79 65 Thursday 81 62

~ Friday ~ 75 63 Saturday ~ 72 62 
j. 


Sunday ·.~ 75 61 
Atlanta 94 72 Fargo 86 64 Richmond 92 68 Billings 86 56 Hartford 84 64 San Francisco 70 53 Boston 84 67 Miami 94 80 St. Louis 91 71
4,Q,~p'@Q i) ~ u 
Dallas 100 76 Nashville 96 65 St. Paul 85 64
Showers T-storms Ratn Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Detroit 82 64 Omaha 85 68 Trenton 86 68
Via AsSOCiated Press GraphlcsNet 


Info 1-6100 RSRC Activity Room I 1 11 :00-11 :45am Cardia Combo 2 11:50-12:10 Flex&Tone 3 12:15-12:45 Step I 4 3:15-4:15 Step II 5 4:20-5:20 AeroStep RSRC Activity Room 2 11 4:20-5:20 Hi Intensity 12 4:20-5:20 Athletic Cond 13 5:25-6:10 Lo Impact 14 1 0:15-11 : 15am Step II 15 12:15-12:45 New Beginnings ROCKNE CLASSES 20 6:30-7:15am Step II 21 4:20-5:20 Step II 22 5:30-6:15 Step II AQUADIC CLASSES 25 12:15-12:45 Aquacise KNOCKOUT WORKOUT 27 6:45-B:OOpm Boxing Room FUNK AEROBICS 28 6:45-8: 15pm Activity Room I  Fitness Schedule Fa/11998 M/W/F $35 6 5:30-6:30 Step I M/W $27 M/W/F $20 7 4:30-5:30 Cardia Combo T!Th $22 M/W/F $27 8 5:35-6:30 Step T!Th $27 M/W/F $35 9 12:30-1:30 Muscle Step Su $12 M/W/F $35 10 3:15-4:15 Cardia Combo Su $12 M/F $22 16 4:00-5:00 Step I T!Th $27 W/Su $27 17 5:25-6:10 Flex & Tone T!Th $22 M/W $22 18 4:15-5:00 Step II Su $12 T!Th $27 19 5:10-5:30 AIIAbs Su $10 T!Th $22 M/W/F $35 23 12:15-12:45 Flex & Tone T!Th $27 M/W/F $35 24 3:45-4:45 Step II 301 T!Th $27 M/W $27 M/W/F $22 26 6:45-7:45pm Aquacise T!Th $22 T!Th $25 9/1-10/15 Registration begins Thursday, August 27, 7:30am RSRC M $20 8/31-10/12  

• CONSTRUCTION BEAT 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 

ND prof: U.S. embassy bombings were long time in making 
By FINN PRESSLY  
News Writer  
On Aug. 7, car bombs explod­ 
ed simultaneously outside  
American embassies in Nairobi,  
Kenya, and Dar es Salaam,  
Tanzania, killing close to 300  
and injuring over 5,000.  
But as jarring as the incident  
was, the causes leading up to  
the embassy bombings have  
been brewing for some time,  
according to Hobert Johansen,  
professor of government at  
Notre Dame.  
"It stems from a feeling of  
political and religious frustra­ 
tion on the part of people who  
have been feeling ignored for  
too long, trying tu advance their  
political and economic interests.  
These were acts of desperation  
by a people crying out to be  
heard," he said.  
The Kenyan and Tanzanian  
embassies were probably  
bombed because of inadequate  
security, Johansen said.  
"The embassies are in close  
proximity to parts of the world  
that are angry toward the  
United States," Johansen said,  
adding that this is also a part of  
the world where materials for  
the construction of explosives AP Graphic  
can easily be obtained.  American allies applauded the  the U.S."  
The simultaneous explosions  strikes, those in targeted  While the missile strikes may 
in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam  nations, especially those not  have temporarily disabled the  
collectively killed hundreds and  involved with terrorist groups,  production of chemical weapons  
injured at least 5,000. As facts  condemned the action.  and disrupted terrorist plans, 
emerged from the blast sites,  "Within Sudan and  Johansen predicts it will give 
the U.S. linked the attacks to  Afghanistan, the U.S. made  rise to increased terrorism.  
Saudi millionaire Osama bin  some new enemies," Johansen  "In the long run, U.S. air  
Laden, who reportedly funds  said. "Some of those who may  strikes are likely to increase the  
camps designed to train anti­ have felt reservation about or  conditions that give rise to ter­ 
American terrorists.  opposition to Bin Laden may  rorism," Johansen said. "I don't  
On the morning of Aug. 20,  have felt that he was more like  think it reduces the likelihood of  
U.S. President Bill Clinton  a hero, because they felt angry  new terrorists being recruited.  
ordered the U.S. armed forces  about a big country sending  In fact, some people were hap­ 
to strike at centers of terrorist  weapons into a smaller country.  pier to engage in violence  
operations in Sudan and Afghanistan. While many  Afghanistan and Sudan are defenseless militarily against  against the U.S. after the bomb­ings."  



Money found by Joyce Center 
Special to The Observer Gate One of the Joyce Center the way to register, said -=------------on Monday. Chuck Hurley, assistant direc­Notre Dame security and Security suspects it could tor of security. 
police found money outside of have been lost by a student on Anyone who lost money in the vicinity should call Notre Dame security at 631-8338. Once they identify the amount of money and denomination, security will return the money to the owner. 
Recycle The Observer 
MATUBA ~ Japanese Restaurant ~ 
Authentic, Healthy Delicious, The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din­ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrim~ te~­
pur, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon. tenyak1. chicken. sushi, sashimi and vegetable sushi or manv other traditional Japanese dishes. 
IJrd1Special-$6.95 1 -Beef Negimaki 2-Egg Rolls 
2 . Fried Rice 4 pc . California Rolls 4 pc -Cucumber Rolls 1-Miso Soup 1-Salad 
plus Japanese 
Green Tea May change weekly 
Sushi( 13 pieces) Sushi (14 pieces Sushiveg. chicken (12 pc) Sushi no mw fish (13 pc) Sushi (16 pieces) Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces) Sushi & Sashimi combo 
l:he'~-$1495 
1 · Teriyaki Chicken 
1 ·Tuna Sushi 
1 -While Fish Sushi 
1 -Salmon Sushi 
4 pc . California Rolls 
8 pc-Tuna Rolls 
1 . Steam Rice 1-Miso Soup 1-Salad 
plusJ~
Green ea Lunch Dinner 
$6.95 $8.95 $7.95 $11.95 $6.95 $6.95 $12.95 $12.95 $12.95 $12.95 $16.95 $16.95 $18.95 $18.95 

By M. SHANNON RYAN Sainr Mary's Editor 
Freshmen and transfer stu­donts may not know it, but dri­ving up the Main Avenue or bathing in Le Mans Hall will be quite a diiTonmt cxpcrimtce this falL 
Completion of a five-year. 47­bathroom renovation project and four-week-long repaving of the tree-lined path were just two of the improvenwnts mado to the campus during summer break. 
"It was a busy summer," said John Marshall. supnrintendent of Buildings and Grounds. 
Following the smooth, black­topped road onto campus leads to more ehangos, induding the twwly mpavml Le Mans pm·king lut. The lot has been equipped with gates and a detex system. 
Summer brings SMC campus improvements 
Twenty-two parking spaces have been eliminated from the lot to make room for the gates and stone islands, leaving the total number of spaces at 230. 
While the 11nal utilization plans· are not complete, the new sys­tem is designed to ensure public parking spact; during special events on ·campus, according to Security director Hichard Chlebek. 
During such events, tho gates on the parking lot's northern entrance will be lowered after 5 p.m., and gates for patron park­ing will be raised one hour prior to the event. Once the event bt;gins and its patrons are parked. other motorists will be admitted for parking. 
"It's not going to be too much different other than appear­ance," Chlebek said. 
Flanner 1998 Occupants 
Arts/Letters Faculty -TA Adjunct Offices Emeritus/ Adjunct Offices Faculty Offices . 

Career and Placement Sel'vices Center for Study of Contemporary LIUu.....¥, Cushwa Center Gerontology & Geriatrics f;~ucation Higgins Labor Research C~nter Erasmus Institute ' lntsitute for Educational lrjitiatives Institutional Research 1\t,i Journal tor Educational Psychology Journal of American Musicology Keough Center for Irish S!l1dies Lab for Social Research · Nanovic Center Nineteenth Century Conte~s Notre Dame Review · Religion and literature Review of Politics Social Concepts University Press User Services 
plus Miso Soup Lunch:11·2 Mon-Fri Dinner: 5·9 Mon·Thurs,5-10 Fri·Sat 
251-0674 
Fish-Beef-Chicken 2930 E. McKinl"'l_Ave. South Bend IN 


---~-­

~-------~ ­

Players 
continued from page I 
players in Monday's 9 p.m. 
broadcast in light of the 
University's position that the 
names are incorrect. 
For its part, Fox News stands 
by the report and its sources. 

"We're not in the business of getting into a shooting match with the University of Notre Dame and its football team," said Dean Huppert, WSJV-TV sports director. "Our station believes in presenting the most accurate news, sports and 
• SiERRA lEONE 
Judge condemns 16 to death 
Associated Press 
FREETOWN, Sierra Leone 
A jammed courtroom lis­

tened in hushed silence 
Tuesday as a High Court judge 
condemned 16 civilians, 
including five journalists, to 
death by hanging for collabo­
rating with Sierra Leone's 
ousted military regime. 
Justice Edmond Cowan 

allowed the defendants 21 
days to appeal the sentences, 
which he handed down after 
lawyers for the condemned 
made last-ditch appeals for 
leniency. 
"You will be taken from here 

to a place of maximum securi­
ty to be hanged by the neck 
until you die. May your soul 
rest in peace," Cowan said to 
each of the prisoners. 
Friends and family members 

of the condemned did not 
respond as the sentences were 
being read, but openly wept as 
they were led from the heavily 
guarded High Court in Sierra 
Leone's capital of Freetown. 
The 16 were taken by police 

and West African intervention 
force soldiers to Freetown's 
maximum security prison. 
The ruling came just a day after a 12-member jury found the 16 guilty of helping the country's former military junta take power in an armed coup d'etat last May. 
The junta troops, led by Lt. Col. Johnny Paul Koroma were unseated in February by Nigerian-led West African troops, paving the way for a return to power by President Ahmed Tejan Kabbah's elected government. 
The convicted journalists are former British Broadcasting Corp. announcer Hilton Fyle, Sierra Leone state radio executive Gipu Felix George, newspaper editor Ibrahim Ben Kargbo, and radio journalists 
Dennis Smith and Olivia Mensah, who recently gave birth in prison to a baby boy. 
Former junta spokesman Alieu Kamara was also among those convicted. The others include Sierra 
Leonean businessmen and 
If you see news hap­

pening, call 
The 


Observer at 
1-5323. 
weather possible. 

"Sources on campus gave us 
those names, and we reported 
what we knew," he stated. 
Huppert concluded his state­ment by adding that, "Like everyone in South Bend and at Notre Dame, we want the truth, and in a perfect world, we'd much rather talk about foot­ball." 
Quarterback Jarious Jackson and running back Autry Denson denied their involvement in the matter. The other two players named by Huppert could not be reached Monday or Tuesday for comment. 
"I have nothing to do with it -period, point blank," said 
government bureaucrats. Two lords, former rebel leader people were found not guilty Foday Sankoh, also faces and have been freed from cus­charges. tody. -Junta and allied rebel forces 
The convictions are the first continue to kill, rape and 
under Kabbah's restored gov­maim villagers as part of their ernment, which has pursued campaign against thegovern­treason cases against at least ment and have threatened 40 other civilians. Another 38 mass killings in retaliation soldiers face court martials. against the jailing of Sankoh The country's foremost war-and other rebels. 
~OR tbc EDUCATION nun RESEARCH COMMUNITY 

" Am • 1... 
-Morningstar ratings for the CREF Global Equities Account, CREF Equity Index Account, and CREF Growth Account• 
AAA 
-S&P and Moody's rating for TIAA** 

"""'\""} Te take a lot of pride in gaining high marks V V from the major rating services. But the fact is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every day from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF. ensuring the financial futures of the education and research community is something that goes beyond stars and numbers. We became the world's largest retirement orga­nization' by offering people a wide range ofsound investments, a commitment to superior service, and 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it."' 

*Source: Momm~'>tar, Inc., Ju~y 31, ~~~t Mnmings.rar i~an ~~dcpc~lllcnt ~rv•~c that rate!> mutual t:umb and Vdnahlc annuitic~. The top l0%offund~ in an inn:~tmcnt catcgnry receive live :>toll"\ and the next 22.~% rcccwc four stan.. Mommgstar propnctary ratm~s n:fltct h1~toncal O!>k-ad]U~tcd rcrfnrmancc ;md arc l>UbJc..:r to change every month. They arc calculated from the a..:coum'.,thn:c·, five , and ten-yen avcragc .:mnual return'> m ex~c~ of9?-day Tre~sury bill return" With appropnatc fcc adjuMmcnt!>, ami a nl>k t3o:tor that n:Occh perfonnancc below 90-day T-bill returns. ·n\c m·crall ~tar raung' rdi!rrcd tu ahcwc arc Mnrmn~'>t.u', puhh'>hcd ranngs, whiCh an: wetghu:d avc:ragc.. oftb thrcc-, th·e-, and ten-year ratmgs ti1r J"'CncKh ending July 31, l9CJ8. The !.eparare (unpubli~hcd) rating~ fur each c1fthc pcmKh .m:: 
CB..BF Stock Account CREF Global Bquldu Account CREF Equity lnda Account CR.BF Growth Account CR.EF Bond Market Ac:rount CREf" Social Choke Account StarR.umgj Starlllring/ StarR.!Iingj Star Raring/ ~rarR.!ting/ St~r Raung/ 
NumberufDomei>tic Equity Numbcruflmcmational Equny Numbc:rnfJ)umc'it"ic~uiry Numbcrul Dumc~ric r.qutty Numhcrut"ftlcd lncumc Sumllc:rc•t"DcJillC\IlCE\JIIIIY Period Ao:counh Rated Account~ R.:lrcd AccnuntsR.ucd Accu.um~ Rated Acwunt' R.ltcd ALCCJLinl\ R.ltcd 3-Year 4/2.120 4/459 5/2.120 fi/2,120 4/719 4/2,1211 5-Ycar 4/1,363 5/2.15 N/A N/A 4/487 4/l,.~(d to-Year 4/674 N/A NjA N/A N/A N/A 
..Thc..;c tllp ratings arc ba\C.'d on TIM'~ cxccpnonal tinanctal.\trcngth, claim.,·pa~·mg abtliry and ovcrallqperatm~ perfiJmlancc. tBa!oed on a.<.M:b under mana~emcnt "''Standard & J>rmr'i lm11ra1ur Uatim1 A 11a!vm. 1998; Ltppcr Analytical Service~. Inc., Lipprr·Diruwr'J A'ia~vtlral lJata, IV'JX I Quarterly). CREJ. certilicatc\ and intc:rc\1~ 111 the TIAA Rral btatc Account arc Ji!>tributcd bv TIAA·CRI·.J· lmii\·idual ·.1ml lmti~utional Service~. For more complete infi1rmanun, indudmg charge~ and cxpcn!oe\, calli XOO H42 2733, cxtemion 55()C}~ fur the CRE!-and TIAA Rc.II E\t.*" Accoulll pro,pcctu.~' Read them o.:Jrl'fully hctC 1n· you mvc~t or send money. 
Hj'IH 
Jackson. "I haven't had any­thing to do with it from the beginning. I never had anything to do with it." 
Upset that his name was inaccurately linked with the sit­uation, Jackson added, "This just makes me look bad." 
Said Denson, "Everyone knows that I'm not involved. I don't even know her. I have nothing to do with it." 
Jackson called it unfair to assume that, just because someone is on the football team, they either were involved or know who was. 
''I'm not speaking for anyone else because I don't know," he said. 



Meal Plan 
continued from page 1 
Center, certain residence halls and to library books. This win­ter, Domer Dollars will be introduced, and students can use their ID as a pre-paid debit card to purchase food, athletic tickets and items at the Hammes Bookstore. Students eventually may be able to use their ID card to pay for laundry and vending machines. 
The Flex 14 plan was devel­oped by Food Services, which had noted significant "interest in creating a flexible meal plan," according to Prentkowski. They studied and tracked participation in similar programs at schools such as Purdue University, Michigan 
The Observer is always looking for good writers. 
.•• encaa 

Top Pension Fund." 
-MoneyMagazine, January 1998 

operating expenses that are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries."'' 
With TIAA-CREF.you'll get the right choices­and the dedication-to help you achieve a lifetime offinancial goals. The leading experts agree. So does Bill. 
Find out how TIAA-CREF can help you build a comfortable, llnancially secure tomorrow. Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org or call us at 1800 842-2776. 
State University and the University of Maine-Orono. 
Once the Flex 14 program was developed, the decision to implement it was made by University officials, who must allocate an additional $200 per semester to Food Services for every participant in the pro­gram. Once that approval was granted, all that remained was to update the electronic sys­tems which track usage of the points and ID cards. 
The system was updated this summer to keep track of the debit accounts and are hooked up to cash registers across campus. The new program was designed by C-Board, an Ithaca, N.Y., company which specializes in access privilege control systems and manage­ment information software. 
_____,
1"""'"--------------------~-----------------------~----~----­
' 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 



Cape Town explosion kills one 

Rescue workers assist those injured when a bomb exploded in Cape Town's popular Planet Hollywood restaurant. 
Wednesday, August 26, 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS Rockets land in Israel 
KIHYt\T SllEMONt\, Israel 

Katyusha rockets slammed into northern lsr<wli towns TlH~sday night, injuring at lt~ast liJ p(~oplt~. al'ter a top Lebanese guer­rilla I(Htder was killed by an Israeli hnli­roptnr thai ambuslwd his car in south Lnbanon. ;\long thn nortlwrn bordnr, Israeli n~sid(mts daslwd for slwlters after the rock­Pls took t.IH'm by surprise. "Peopln are in panh~. in panic and f'(Hll'. Thoro an~ tho wails of womPn and childn~n." resident Samir Sulidan told lsraPI radio. The barrage fell only hours al'tN an lsranli helicoptnr gun­ship fin•d a r()(~ket of its own, killing guerril­la commarHIPr llossam al-t\min. rnportedly llw sncond-in-rommand of the military fac­tion of Shiitt• Muslim guerrilla group, /\mal, as h(• was driving along a south Lebanese coastal road not far from the lsranli bordnr. 
Kabila returns to Kinshasa 
KINSIIt\St\, Congo 

l'residl'nt Laun•nt Kabila returned with fanfarP to Congo's capital Tunsday. fortified by tlw support of allit'd forces that were staging a sPriPs of attacks on rnbel-held arPas. Kabila's motor('ade -a caravan of black limousines flanked by pickup trucks l'iiiPd with commandos -zipped through Kinshasa's rutted streets past chm~ring and waving crowds. Kahila had been away for mort' than wonk. holed up in the southnrn rity of I.ubumbashi while his capital was impnriled by an advancing rebel army. But now, in thP wakl' of reeent gains in the W(~st. govnrnnwnt forees are planning to move east to tlw !wart of rebel-held territo­ry tlwre, Voice of' tlw People radio reported. 
Killer floods exhaust Chinese 
BEIJING 

China's nxhaust(~d flood fighters rnmained on guard today as a new surge of high water barrelnd down the Yangtze Hiver. threatening to overwhelm dikes weakened by a summer of' drwastating floods. China's flood control lwadqtiarters dnscribed thn situation as "nxl.rnnwly snrious." It wamed that along a IHO-mil(~ stretch of' the rivnr, water levels stood at historic highs and somn placns lravn bnnn inundatnd for (10 days or mon~. Tlw new Yangtze flood crest -tlw seventh so far in a summer of flood­ing that has killed thousands of people and IPI't millions honwfess -was Pxpected to plunge through tlw Three Gorges Dam and enter tlw middle Yangtze today. Zhou WPnzhi. vice minister of water resources, said tiH~ (TPSt was expneted to reach the city of' Shashi by tonight. 

S&l' 500: Composite !092.86 Volume: 
+.~.72 563,700,000

8602.65 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

ru&U'4b::L lU IHH "n ~ II·~ :S~ d J h~lts I'Hirt 
~wdj.lwncll,fl·,nlr ~ED HI..U +5.1162~ 17..l12S l't•nntnrp Hnl !'Hi +-10.00 +1.1250 .l.IJ(l75Rlf' +l.S.OO + 1.87~0 14 ..\75
~-~:;;r~,~~:~: 11\•: I TN I. +11.59 +2.]750 22.H7S
1 
\.1lomon llr World SliW ti0.5K +\.0000 10.625 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

Input/Output Inc 1() -.B.04 -4.6250 'U75 ( olp\k,ul Mnrt~,\l;::l' t MO ·21.1> -0.6K75 2.5fl25 Vt•\t.Jimur.lnn•llf!llll' V'1A ·21.00 ·2.62>0 'U~7~ ~otl'l Ml'lhd t orp NM -20 .. U ·1.1250 4.-t\75 "itrrum ('.lp11JI \IR ·16.26 -1.2.S(KI 6.4.175 
AssociATED PREss 
CAPE TOWN, South Africa 
A bomb exploded inside a crowded Planet Hollywood restaurant Tuesday, killing one person and injuring 24. A man claiming responsi• bility said it was t•ovenge for U.S. attacks on targets in Sudan and Afghanistan. 
The caller to the radio station Cape Talk claimed responsibility on behalf of a group called Muslims Against Global Oppression, according to Marianne Merten, a journalist at the station. Police refused to comment on the call. 
In Washington, the State Department said the group was anti­Jewish and anti-Israeli. It was unknown to tho department's counter-terrorism office until it staged a demonstration at the vacant Israeli diplomatic oflice in Cape Town in July 1997, officials said. The marchers shouted angry slogans aimed at Israel. 
Some members were among the 40 or so people who protested U.S. poli­cies on Iraq and Israel during President Clinton's visit to Cape Town in March. 
Police Senior Superintendent John Sterrenberg·said the device exploded at 7:20 p.m. irlside Planet Hollywood as it was packedwith diners. He con­firmed one woman was killed. Her nationality and those of the injured were not immediately known. 
A witness who had been at the ground-floor bar in the two-story Hollywood-theme restaurant described a horrific scene. 
"I saw people without limbs," Bertie Liel:>onberg. who was visiting from Johannesburg, told the South African Press Association. "Decor on the ceiling came crashing down. and crashed onto people, tables and chairs." 
Roger Sedres, a local photograph­M, said he heard the explosion as lw drove past the restaurant, then saw the wounded come streaming out. 

One woman sat outside the restau­rant, her head in her hands, scream­ing: "'Oh God, please tell rrte my legs are still there,'" Sedres said. The woman's legs wore intact. 
Rescue workers brought out anoth­er woman who was motionless. her legs mangled. 
Police cordoned off the restaurant in the trendy Victoria and Albert Waterfront and were reinforced with armored cars. Ambulances with sirens wailing rushed to the scene. 
Nico Smuts, spokesman t'or Leisurenet, the franchise holders of Planet Hollywood, said the Cape Town branch was wholly South African-owned. · · However, there was speculation that an attack on a target identified with the United States could be a sequel to the bombings of the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania that killed 257 people on Aug. 7 -or an answer to America's retaliatory cruise-missile attacks on targets in Afghanistan and Sudan. 
Seven indicted in assassination plot 
AssociATED PnEss attempted to assassinate 
Castro. The Cuban leader 

SAN JUAN, Puerto Hico himself has said the figure 
The U.S. government on is closer to 25. Tuesday announced the According to the charges indictment of seven aging handed down Tuesday, the Cuban exiles, including a seven accused "did know­director of Miami's influen­ingly and unlawfully con­tial Cuban American spire, combine and agree National Foundation, on together ... to kill, with mal­charges of plotting to assas­ice aforethought, Fidel sinate Fidel Castro. Castro." The indictment 
While there have been suggests more people could numerous plots and elaims be charged, saying the plot­of plots to kill Cuba's com­ters conspired "with other munist leader sinee he persons known and seized power in 1959, the unknown to the grand jury." indietment was believed to It alleged the defendants be the first such accusation planned for four years to in a eourt of law. kill the 72-year-old Castro 
In the mid-1970's, a outside the United States, in Senate committee docu­particular during his trip to mented eight instances in a Latin American summit which U.S. agencies on Margarita island off the Venezuelan coast in November 1997. 
If convicted, they faee up to life in prison, the Justice Department in Washington 
D.C. said. 

At least one of the defen­dants, .Jose Antonio Llama, 67, is a director of the Cuban American National Foundation, one of the most influential lobbying groups in the United States, whieh Castro has accused for years of plotting to kill him. The foundation publicly advocates political pressure to spur change in Cuba. 
The foundation's presi­dent, Francisco "Pepe" Hernandez, was investigat­ed in the ease but not indicted. Lawyers for both men had predicted in Miami last week that they would be charged with such a plot this week. The lawyers said their dients were not guilty, though they admitted that Llama owned a boat used in the alleged plot and Hernandez a sniper rifle. 
In Miami, the foundation issued a statement calling the allegations "politically motivated" and expressed its confidence that Llama was innocent of the charges. 
Tuesday's indictment stems from an ongoing FBI investigation that began when the U.S. Coast Guard got a radio eall for help on Oct. 27 from the 46-foot yacht La Esperanza, which was in international waters oil' Puerto Rico. 

Feature 
continued from page I 
Allowing students to confer­ence on-line has aided in cre­ating more lively classroom discussion, according to incandela, adding that it allows students who are less vocal to voice their opinions in a different setting that they may find more comfortable. 
lncandela's Web site pro­vides students with on-line resources for topics covered in class, ranging from a com­plete on-line Bible to informa­tion on the Catholic Church. Students have offered him positive feedback about the on-line options. 
"My sense is this is the kind of thing that could take off," lncandela said. "It's good for students to be able to interact with each other intellectually, beyond the bounds of the classroom Monday, Wednesday and Friday from 10 to 10:50 a.m." 
Associate physics professor Joe Bellina was part of the group that pushed for the Saint Mary's campus to be networked. He continues to encourage students to use e­mail and the Internet outside the classroom. 
Through e-mail, Bellina said he is able to minimize the amount of paper he gives to students. 
"At the start of the semes­ter, I call the Information Technology people and have them set up a list serve for my class," he said. "When the students get on the list, they 
• NOTRE DAME NEWS 
get homework assignments, information on things we cov­ered in class, and they can e­mail me to ask me what there grade is in the class at any­time." 
Bellina also encourages stu­dents to e-mail him with any questions on material before they meet for class that day. He then takes time to answer the questions in class. He also shares with students physics­related Web sites with stu­dents. 
"As I begin to identify those Web sites for students, they can find the sites themselves, and it become an extension of the library," he said. 
With increased access to technology on campus, more professors may begin incorpo­rating the Internet into the classroom, said director of Information Technology Joe Cooper. 
Other faculty members have mixed reactions to using the Internet and the enhanced technology as classroom tools, Bellina said. 
"I would say about 20 to 30 percent are excited about the technology, another 20 per­cent are reluctant, and the rest of the faculty is in the middle with the issue," Bellina said. 
But Incandela said he thinks Saint Mary's is riding the wave of the future with its recent technological advances. 
"Using increased technology is the way education is going," Incandela said. "We either get on board or get left behind." 
Grant brings scholars to Erasmus Institute 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has received a $1.2 million grant from the Pew Charitable Trusts to support a residential fellows program of Christian Scholarship in the Erasmus Institute. 
"The Erasmus Institute is a unique academic effort which promises to enrich the common intellectual life of our culture as well as that of the Catholic Church," said Notre Dame president Father Edward Malloy. 
"We are grateful to the Pew Charitable Trusts for their gen­erosity and gratified by their endorsement of this exciting new program," he added. 
Established last fall and named in honor of the 16th century Catholic scholar and reformer. the Erasmus Institute hopes to reinvigorate the role of Catholic intellectual tradi­tions in contemporary scholar­ship by offering the Pew resi­dential fellowships, sponsoring a publishing program, originat­ing cooperative faculty develop­ment programs. organizing conferences and colloquia at colleges and universities across the country, and arranging summer seminars for graduate students. 
Although the institute is pri­marily concerned with Catholic intellectual life, it also supports some research deriving from the intellectual traditions of other Christian churches, Judaism and Islam. 
Political scientists, philoso­phers, theologians and histori­ans will be among the 11 fel­lows in residence at the Erasmus Institute during the 1998-99 academic year. 
Their research will include such topics as 1'incarnational and Sacramental Theology and the Contemporary Crisis of Institutions," "The Doctrine of Creation, Moral Realism and Divine Command Theory," "Christianity and 20th Century Revolutions in Sovereignty," "Catholic Conceptions of Tradition and the Historical Roots of Multiculturalism" and "Resources in the Classical Christian Tradition for Defending the Idea of an Open Society." 

The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, August 26, 1998 
~ 
3602 N. Grape Rd. • Mishawaka IN 






Free 


Thursday, August 27 6:30P.M. 118 Niewland 
Sign up in 101 O'Shaughnessy 
(sponsored by KAPLAN and the N.D. Prelaw Society) 


Clinton distances support for Yeltsin 
Assodat!'d l'ress 
WASIIINGTON 

t·:ver so <:arnl'ully, tlw Clinton administration is distancing its1df a bit from Boris Yoltsin­just in r.as1~. 
In a 30­minutll phone call to the Hussian pres­ident this morning, President Clinton limit­


ed h is 


l'ndors1~nwnt Yeltsin 
of Yeltsin to: "'I'll 1:ontimw to support you in what you rwed to do to tackle 
Hussia's eronomie situation," a 
WhitP House official said. 
Ynltsin's abrupt and drastic shakl'up in the Kremlin left U.S. oflicials strnssing they support n~form over any particular individual. Tlw dear implica­tion: If Ynltsin gives way to a sun:ossor. that person could enjoy U.S. support provided he promoted tho twin goals of cap­italism and dnmoeraey. 
Clinton, duP in Moscow next wnnk for summit meetings with Ynltsin. stn~ssnd to his Hussia counterpart today "'tlw impor­tance of a dPar. decisive· stratP­gy" for economic reform and stability, tlw White !louse ofli­r.ial said on condition of anonymity. 
Clinton also signaled that he wanted tho summit to focus on nonproliferation. Iraqi compli­ance with Unitfld Nations weapons inspeetions and Kosovo, the official said. 
·"For us. it has always been true that policy matters more than personality," White House press secretary Mike McCurry said Monday. 
Tlw shakeup last Sunday, in whieh Yeltsin restored former Prime Minister Viktor Chcrnomyrdin to that post, served as "a reminder of the volatility that exists in Hussian domes tie polities," McCurry said on Martha's Vineyard, the island ofT Massaehusetts wlwre President Clinton was on vaea­tion. "Wn are wnll aware of that." , 
The upheaval left American of'ficials hesitant to pledge their unqualified support to Yeltsin's leadership. 
Still, Clinton intends to go ahead with his planned Moscow summit next week, which is programmed to give him some aecess to Yeltsin's political foes and possibly a chance to address the Hussran people. 
Having experienc11d Yeltsin's rocky rule. administration ofli­eials took comfort in his restoration of Chernomyrdin as prime minister. 
=.: M.--·.­
.. ,-.._. BIAlHlON 

:?3:~~. 
•. ~-·· · -­•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
• 
: 
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •: Hurricane Bonnie Hatteras, which sits on the 
• that could carry its of Nags Head. It was moving
•

accelerated on a path Outer Banks 50 miles south 
• fury into the barrier 'WE HAVE ONE OF THE TEN toward the north-northwest
l :::~:i~n~~~.~t~~;~~ ~.~~:~~~tH ~?:~~,"~~;¥:~~;,
mE cou=~ EVACUATION SITFS IN 
· SATURDAY, AUGUST 29 I0:30AM AT ST. JOE BEACH 
'· I· I· 
1/2 MILE SWIM 
& 
2MILERUN REGISTER IN ADVANCE AT RECSPORTS 
ARSITY 
TEAM & INDIVIDUAL NON· ARSITY TEAM & INDIVIDUAL 
R~~ 
www.nd.edu/-recsport 
Hurry up and w.ait 
Starting as early as lunchtime Tuesday, seniors camped out for an all-night wait to buy football tickets, which went on sale this morning at 7 a.m. 
Some, like off-campus student Rob Sudduth (below), opt to play cards to keep busy, while other groups kill time by loung­ing "poolside" (pictured right) in their folding chairs, blasting music or tossing frisbees. 
The Observer/ Jeff Hsu 




Bonnie's fury forces NC evacuation 
Associated Press was declared in Virginia, and out left and right," said voluntary evacuations were Margate Beach, N.J., lifeguard NAGS HEAD, N.C. urged in two South Carolina Mike Palmer. One man was 
Morn than a quarter of a mil-coastal counties. missing Monday in the surf ofT lion residents and visitors were In advance of the storm, the Point Pleasant Beach. ordered to leave North Atlantic had been showing its By early afternoon today, the Carolina's low-lying, exposed effects with 10-foot waves storm's eye was centered about 
Outer Banks today as reported on the North Carolina 330 miles south of Cape 
• Banks by early after­noon and the National Weather Service said Bonnie's cen­ter with its 115 mph wind could be near the islands by late Wednesday morn­ing. Hurricane warnings, already reaching from Murrells Inlet, S.C., to the Virginia state line, were extended northward to Chincoteague, Va. The warnings mean dangerous wind and heavy rain could hit the area within 24 hours. Hurricane watches extended south to Savannah, Ga., and north to Cape I-lenlopen, Del. 
A state of emergency 

MARK MARUI/JANK the weather service said. 
beach. Gray, white-capped waves hit the New Jersey shore in breakers 4 feet to 6 feet high. pounding onto the sand with a dull roar. 
"I just knew we was going to get run home," said tourist Margaret Boone of Thurmont. Md. 
The state of Vil'ginia and some coastal communities else­where had already bannfld swimming because of rip tides -strong currents near the beaches -that arc blamed for three drownings over the week­end in South Carolina, North Carolina and Delaware. , 
"People were getting sucked 

WASHINGTON HALL--Donald Crafton, Chairman of This season, the Department of Film, Television and 
the Department of Film, Television and Theatre (FTI), Theatre will present a mainstage season consisting of 
has announced that the annual reception for students four plays as well as many other acting and directing 
interested in film, television or theatre will be held projects. Mainstage productions this season will be: 
Wednesday, August 26, at 6:00 pm in Washington Cat on a Hot Tin Roof Hall. Students interested in filmmaking, video/film pro­Getting Wrecked duction, broadcasting, stage management are encour­The Angels' Cradle performed by Theater Grottesco aged to attend. Following refreshments, there will be a The School for Scandal brief informational meeting to discuss ways to become In addition, FTI will host a residency by THEATRE involved in departmental activities. GRoTTEsco, sponsored by the Henkels Visiting Lecture 
Theatre at Notre Dame is open to all students-­Series. Acting and directing projects are showcased at 
majors and non-majors--who wish to participate. There the end of each semester. All of these projects will are theatre opportunities to fit every schedule and level need a great amount of student support. There are of talent. If you have a willingness to learn, you are positions for all who wish to participate. 
qualified. Auditions for the first two plays of the season will 
Becoming involve in theatre is an excellent way to be held Wednesday, August 26, Thursday August meet new people, make new friends, and have a great 27, at 7:00 pm. time while involving yourself in the creation of · If you cannot attend the reception, but wish to be something special on campus. involved or have questions about the program, please 
call Tom Barkes at (219) 631-5956. 
Evacuation orders were 
posted today for the Outer Banks sections of Dare and Currituck counties, the island of Ocracoke and beach communi­ties along the state's southern coast near Wilmington . Hesidents and tourists were urged to head for the mainland immediately. although there is no legal way to enforce the orders. Ocracoke is accessible only by ferry. . 
Virginia Gov. Jim Gilmore declared a state of emergency today. That authorized eommu­nities to order evacuations but none had done so by early afternoon. · Large-seale evacuations in Virginia could be a problem for the 1.5 million people in the Hampton Hoads area, where even routine holiday weekends produce traffic jams at the two main bridge-tunnels leading out of the area. 
"We have one of the ten worst evacuation sites in the coun­try," said Mark Marchbank, emergency services chief for Virginia Beach. 
South Carolina Gov. David Beasley called for voluntary evacuations in coastal Horry and Georgetown counties. 
"We're still hoping the hurri­cane will move to the north of us, but at the same time we are taking all neeessary precautions to err on the side of safety," Beasley said. 
Nearly 2,000 South Carolina National Guard troops and law enforcement officers were available to conduct an evacua­tion if one becomes necessary, said Gary Karr. a spokesman for Beasley. 
People on the Outer Banks were urged to head for the mainland immediately. 
But as dawn broke with a blue sky, runners took their morning jog on the beach road and golfers kept their tee times. 








IEWPOINT 
Wednesday, August 26, 1998 ----------------
page 8 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-747! SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CiliEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ....................... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER .............. Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ...... Jennifer Breslow 
Kristi Klitsch CONTROLLER .............. . .. .......... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ...... M. Shannon Ryan P!lOTO EDITOR .. . . . ............ Kevin Dalum 
The Obsc::rver is the independent newspaper published by the srudt·nts of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. h docs nor necessarily rdlc:ct rhe policies of rhc adminisrrarion ofeither institution. The news is reponed as accurardy and objc:ctiv;dy as possible. Unsigned editorials rcprescm rhc opinion of rhe majoriry of rhe Editor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assis1anr Managing Ediror .md Jcpanmcnr editors. Commcnraries,leners and columns prcsenr rhe views of the aurhors, and nor necessarily rhose nfThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available ro aJI members of rhe None Dame/Saim Mary's communiry and mall readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 

rhrough lerrers is encouraged. Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 
Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 
News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 
Sports 631-4543 Fax 
Scenei/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail 
Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail 
Office Manager/General Information 631·7471 News E-Mail 

atty 0. says hello 
I would like to e~tend to you a warm welcome on behalf of all of us who work in the Division of Student Affairs __, the Offices of Alcohol and Drug Education, Campus Ministry. Career and Placement Services, Counseling Center, Health Services, International Student Affairs, Residence Life, Security, Student Activities, Student Res,dences, and the staffs of your resi­dence halls. Although we provide a variety of services, we share a common desire to do everything we can to help facilitate your intellectual, spiritual and personal growth in your lives·outside the· classroom. 
We welcome back the sophomores, juniors and seniors, as well as the returning graduate and professional students. We extend a special welcome to our new students_,.. first year stu­dents, transfer students and new grad­uate and professional students. You join 


, a proud community with a rich tradi'­tion that dates back more than 155 · to the vision of our founder, 
E.dward Sorin, C.S.C. We hope all of you -both those who are and those who are returning­be able to achieve the academic, 

and personal goals you set for this year. I hope t I will have the opportunity 
to come to know as many of you as pos­in the months ahead. Until I am to greet you in person, please 
that you have my very best w""''"''" filled with all God's 

631-5313 
631-6900/8840 631-8839 631-6927 
Viewpoint.! @nd.edu observer@darwin.cc.nd.c:du observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
• OHIO STATE UNIVEHS!TV 
Football major? For some it may be a good idea 
(U-Wire) COLUMBUS, Ohio Here we are in the last week of sum­
mer quarter 1998 and it is time to put up or shut up for students like me and football players like Big Kat. I only wish that I could be "taken care of' the way Damon Moore is so sure he, Rob Murphy, and Big Kat will be. 
Much has been written about these players taking summer class­es in order to be eligible to play ball this fall. Yes, they must pass the classes. Yes, Big Kat's class sched­ule would make Dan Quayle feel smart. And yes, this says something about the status of our student ath­lete and the goal of our University. 
But what exactly does this say? Big Kat has admitted that his tee­tering eligibility is completely his fault. He decided to skip class and now he is paying. Right here is where I see half of the problem. 
I know what it is like to skip class and have to play catch-up. The con­sistency behind 99 percent of the classes that I skipped was that I was completely uninterested and bored with the classes. Theater 100? Not today. Journalism 101? I'll go tomorrow. Plant Bio 101? Why, is there a test? All this coming from a stu­dent with no scholarship, but also no common sense.. 
So I can imagine how Big Kat feels. Big Kat is going to be a first round draft pick in the NFL next year. A high first­round draft pick. Most likely a top 10 draft pick. Knowing that he will be a millionaire in a matter of months, do you really think he is excited to go to class? 
What makes you excited to go to class? Is it knowing that the classes you are taking are going to fit you into a job within weeks of graduation? Or is it knowing that you are learning how to think in the great rational university 
tradition? The truly great classes make Teach them about the media. Teach you feel that-both are true. So while them about the fans. Teach them about the economics. Teach them the law, 

----z:_ --...._____ 
-· 

'Coach' Cooper will tell you that Moore, Murphy, and Big Kat are taking classes this summer so they can play this fall, I'm going to tell you that they should be taking classes this summer so they can learn how to think. 
Players like these are no different from students like us. They just need to find the right channels to tune those high-powered minds into. This means finding the right major. What I propose for our NFL farm-system of a school. is to let these players major in football, or baseball, and maybe someday basket­ball. Why not? 
Players don't have to major in foot­ball, but for players like Big Kat, who know the NFL is waiting, it would work. 
and which ones they are not above. Teach them the history of the game, who Pete Rozelle was and what happened to the AFL. Bring in Lawrence Taylor as a guest speak­er, and give Jim Brown tenure. 
I think that this approach would make these players interested in education, and would give them a framework to approach a career as a professional athlete. This is obvi­ously important for a school that plays as big of a part as ours does in grooming professional athletes, especially for a school that holds football so important that freshmen can't even get tickets. 
What happens if they don't make it in the NFL'? I don't know and Ohio State wouldn't care. Nobody seems too worried about me and my major in history linding work after school. What I do know is that my major is teaching me how to use my mind; how to think rational­ly. This is something that profes­sional athletes, as well as many of 

our own collegiate athletes, are in dire need of. 
So maybe a major in f(Jotball would give the Big Kat some incentive to go to class and at the same time teach him something that he could use. So to Big Kat, the other student athletes, and even just plain students, good luck this week and I'll sec you at the "Shoe" this fall. 
Michael C. Bender is a columnist for The Lantern at Ohio State University. His column has been reprinted here courtesy ofthe U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. 
• DooNEssunv GARRY TRUDEAU 
• OtHJTE OF THE DAY 
'I pay the School Master, but 'tis the school boys that educate my son.' 
-Ralph Waldo Emerson 




VIEWPOINT 
O THE 

Wednesday, August 26, BSERVER page 9 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR • GEORGE'WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 
Bradley brings poor abortion record to Notre Dame 
In addition to the I ,1J46 freshman joining our com­munity this year, there is one additional member who will be with us: former Senator Bill Bradley of Nnw .Jersey who is teaching one one-erodit eourso. Yes, that's right. onn one-credit course. Certainly, Senator Bradley dons not have in mind a serious aca­demic earenr. 
I would not be surprised if Senator Bradley, with a pol!mtial hid for the presidency on the horizon, came to Notre Dame to score political points with moderate Catholic democrats, whom lm has so alienated by his vote against the partial birth abortion ban. Yes, Senator Bradh)y voted to allow the brutal partial birth abortion proc<)dure which involves partially delivering a living baby and then killing the baby b1)fore completing the delivery-to continue. Even one of Snnator Bradley's colleagues, Senator Patrick Moynihan a liberal democrat from New York, voted for the ban. calling tlw procodure, "too close to infanticido." 
I do nut reromnwnd that the Univorsity impose an abortion litmus test on its scholars. But it is hard to imagine that Snnator Bradley, who thinks it is accnptab]<) to kill infants who are only moments away from taking their tirst breaths. has much, as a scholar or as a politician, to contribute to Notre Dame. 
Maureen Kramlich NO '97. ND Law '00 August 25, 1998 

Nuclear war possible due to papal failures 
Although lntters to the editor typically pertain to current events. this epistle concerns an eventful datn, namely 13 Juno 1929. On that date, it is rnported that the Blessed Virgin Mary appeared to Sister Lucia dos Santos, the surviving visionary ol' the Fatima. Portugal apparitions. Thn motlwr of Christ solnmnly declared, "The moment has come when God asks the lloly Father in union with all the bishops of the world to make the consecration of Hussia to my heart promising to save it by this mnans." Sister Lucia who is still alive, brought the prophetie messagn to the Catholic hinrarchy. No action was taken by Home or the Pope. 
Tho non-consecration of' Hussia was a major con­tributing cause of' the chastisement of World War 
II. If' Hussia had been consecrated then satanic communism. which is tho issue, would have been vanquishnd by the power of God. Because Hussia has not been specifically consecratod to the Immaculate Heart of Mary, diabolical communism continues to menace the peace of' the world. 
Hnalize that Yugoslavia, China, Cuba, Tibet, North Korea, Cambodia, Vietnam, Pope John Paul's Poland and almost Hussia are ruled by atheistic communists! Understand that Pope John Paul, approved by the Polish communist party for arch­bishop of' Cracow and who has not written anything about communism, has absolutely no inten)st in eonsnr:rating Hussia because of' his career indebt­ndrwss. 
As a result ur tlw papal failures of the past six popes to consor.rate Hussia, nuelear war with a communist nation such as China is an escalating possibility and a future <:urrent ev<mt. 


Target: Washington D.C.? 
WASHINGTON, D.C. Washington Monument and visibly 
George Washington promotional increased security around the materials tout the University's White House and other federal geographical proximity to the cen­property ters of American power-located five blocks from the White House,~ 
three blocks from the State Department. a short walk to Embassy Row. 
But after the launch of 
U.S. missiles against purported terrorist facilities in Sudan and Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden -newly designated Public Enemy No. 1 ­promised more terror­ist attacks on U.S. tar­gets would follow. For 
D.C. residents, GW stu­dents ineluded, the threats are an unnerving reminder of the scary reality of life in the nation's capital. 
.· J ~ / " _y F-H-+­/, · ) / _.--·· /" · 

Students who arrived en masse this weekend to move into their apartments and residence halls might saw new additions to D.C. land­have given some visitors the marks. Newly-erected concrete impression of a city under siege. barriers encircling the Even students moving back to 
• UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO 
campus saw the effects of height­ened security. Uniformed Secret Service agents made an appear­ance at several of the residence halls, where students stacked boxes and crates on the sidewalks -quitn a "welcome back" for 
GW students. Some GW students may feel uneasy visiting the national 
monuments in the near 
future. Others vow not to let terrorists' rhetoric interfere with their lives. 

-· 
Regardless of which out­look is more rational, the irony of the GW motto "Something Happens 
Here" isn't lost -let's just hope when it comes to ter­ror attacks, nothing happens here. 
This is a staff editorial by The Hatchet at George Washington University. It has been reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Ranking the rankings at the University of Chicago 
CJIICAGO, Ill. 

Anticipating and then complain­ing about U.S. News' annual rank­ings is as much a University of Chieago tradition as griping about the food in the dining halls and lamenting over unin11ated GPAs. At first glance, this year's news is good: our annual descent has lev­oled off and we remain tied for the distinction of 14th Best National University for the second consecutive year. 
A deeper analysis of the rank­ings reveals two issues. First, it shows that the University still lags noticeably behind its peers in sev­eral heavily-weighted categories. Second, it suggests that 11uctua­tions in rankings within individual categories may be attributable more to changes in U.S. News' methodology and data collection methods than to actual changes on campus. 
As in past years, the University received high marks this year for its favorably low class sizes and student/faculty ratio, and for its stellar academic reputation. In fact, only live schools had higher. academic reputation scores this year, and only CalTech had a bet­ter student/faculty ratio. No school in the top 25 had a smaller percentage of classes with 50 or more students. 
Less fortunately, our mediocre standing in categories such as stu­dent selectivity, rate of graduation and freshman retention, as well as rate of acceptance has also changed little over previous years. As University spin doctors rush to explain about our "self-selecting applicant pool," it is time once again to review the efforts being made to improve the University's marketing. 
At the heart of these efforts lay the creation of a Vice President and Associate Dean of the College for Enrollment, and the hiring of Michael Behnke for the position. However, his arrival at the University is too recent to have in11uenced the data upon which the 1999 rankings are based. 
The importance of increased efforts to reach out to more high school students and to do so in their junior year (as opposed to senior year) remains paramount. Also critical is that the News Office bolsters its efforts to spread the University's name throughout the popular media, where in the past we have been largely under­represented. Improvement in these areas seems to be the key to navigating toward a higher rank­ing. 
But at the same time we embrace the importance of these rankings and the University's responses to them, we cannot fail to ignore their peculiarities. In one year Duke fell from third to sixth overall, and Cornell jumped from 14th place to sixth. Closer to home, we surged this year from eighth place to third in the faculty resources ranking. Even President Sonnenschein admittod puzzle­ment at this sudden increase. 
In the end, our annual contem­plation of the U.S. News rankings leaves us with similar conclusions as years past. First, the University is scoring points where it always has, and should be commended for stopping its rankings skid. Second, the rankings are once again eclectic in scope and seem to bear the influence of each year's changing methodology. Lastly, the University's acknowl­edged weaknesses remain ­heavily influencing our ranking­and there is much to be done if we seek to improve upon them. 
This is a staffeditorial by The Chicago Maroon at the University ofChicago. It has been reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Viewpoint needs a few good 
-
men· and women. Call Eddie 
Joseph E. Vallely Washington, Cr. .June 20, I 998 

at 1-5303. 
Wednesday, August 26, 1998 




A BLOCKBUSTER SUMMER 
Nine films have broken the Several others did not. Scene $100 million box-oHice mark looks at two that fizzled at the so far this summer ... box oHice.

FOR FLOPS 

Director: Harry E/font and Deborah Kaplan Starring: Jennifer Love Hewitt, Seth Green, Ethan Embry and Lauren Ambrose 

(Out offive shamrocks) 

By SARAH DYLAG Scene Editor 
Sometimes the relaxed, easy-going summer atmosphere calls for a simple and predictable movie. Something trendy, cute and marketed to carefree and school-free teenagers. Columbia Pictures' "Can't Hardly Wait," released on June 
12. fit that mold perfectly. It did not. however. do it very well. With a cast of characters representing every 
possible high school stereotype -the popular crowd, the jocks, the prom queens, the geeks ·and the misfits -"Can't Hardly Wait" tells the story of a group of recently graduated Huntington Hills High School seniors who gath­er together for one last party. 
Amanda Beckett ("Party of Five's" Jennifer Love Hewitt). the school's misunderstood popu­lar girl. arrives at the party alone after being officially dumped by Mike Dexter (Peter Facinelli), the school's football star and biggest jock. But she won't be lonely for long because Preston Meyers (Ethan Embry), the school's 

D~rector: Ivan Reitman Starring: Harrison Ford, Anne Heche, David Schwimmer and Temuera Morrison 

(Out offive shamrocks) 
By KRIST! KUTSCH 

most average guy, decides to proclaim his 
undying love for Amanda during the party. 

Meanwhile, Denise Fleming (Lauren Ambrose), the school misfit an·d Preston's best friend, spends the evening trapped in the bathroom with Kenny Fisher (Seth Green), her ex-childhood friend turned homeboy. As the two share a quasi-roman­tic moment, William Lichter (Charlie Korsmo). the school geek, plans his revenge on Mike, but gets swept up in the party crowd and suddenly becomes popular. 
As Preston struggles to find Amanda and win her heart, Mike discovers the shallow­ness of the popular crowd. At this point the movie takes on a "good guy always wins" tone and the story becomes predictable and 
dull. Yes, Preston will get his girl and yes, the 
geeks overcome the popular crowd. The only unpre­dictable moment in the movie comes with the intimate moment between Denise and Kenny, a h i g h I y unlikely couple. Yet as the pieces of the movie began to tie together, even this couple begins to fit


Anne Heche plays Robin Monroe, a respected New York fashion magazine edi­tor who is on vacation in Paradise with her 
new  fiancee  Frank  
Martin  (David  
Schwimmer).  All  is  

well in lover's land until Monroe receives news that she must attend an unexpected photo shoot in the neighboring island of Tahiti. 
This is where the plot thickens Monroe's pilot on her short excursion is the 

Scene Editor rugged and rough aviator Quinn Harris (Harrison Ford). Midway "Six Days, Seven Nights" hit the 
through the flight the odd couple box office on June 12, as a cross 
finds themselves trapped in· a severe between the romantic comedy and 
thundestorm with plane trouble, action genres. 
forcing them to make an emergency landing on another island. 

--
Monroe's naivite cou­pled with Harris' blunt masculinity and lack of patience makes an inter­esting combination of per­sonalities and comedic scenes, but from this point on the plot lacks luster and creativity. 
Soon, the "bad guys" arrive on the scene -a band of pirates who try to rob Harris and Monroe of their belongings. The two escape by jumping over a cliff into the blue waters below, but not before they engage in a very pre­dictable kiss. 
The remainder of the film is filled with repeat­ed scenes of sexual ten­sion between Harris and Monroe, who tries to remain loyal to her beau. 
The two then decide to repair the damaged plane, and alas, all the materials that they need coincidentally appear on 


Photo Courtesy of Columbia Pictures 

the mold of "good guy always wins" and the movie becomes a trite lesson for teenagers ­don't get sucked in by the shallowness of the pop­ular crowd. 
Although Hewitt does a nice job portraying the quiet, aloof and misunderstood Amanda, the exaggerated stereotypes of all of the other char­acters makes the story too typical and pre­dictable. And, since the characters also lack sub­stance, the movie cannot sustain the interest of its viewers. 
Comic appearance by some characters do help distract the viewer from the basic plot. "Yearbook Girl" ("Clarissa Explains It All's" Melissa Joan Hartl roams the party in a pink dress and pigtails looking for people to sign her yearbook. The party's host pathetically laments the trashing of her parents' house. And when the police arrive, complete chaos breaks out at ·the party. 
But even the comedy can't save this movie. The typical high school stereotype movie was perfect­ed with "The Breakfast Club" and although "Can't Hardly Wait" gives a retro-nineties version, it isn't worth your time or money. 

the island. This MacGyver element is part of the predictability of the movie, leaving it short of cre­ative genius. 
While the suspense thickens on the deserted island, Martin, left in anguish over the news that his fiancee is missing, engages in a con­torted love affair with Harris's Paradise girlfriend. His infidelity haunts him for the remainder of the movie and he becomes a worried and nervous man. 
The climax of the movie is as pre­dictable as the rest of the plot. Monroe is torn between he1· commit­ment to Martin and her passion for Harris, and Martin suffers from his 
Photo Courtesy of Touchstone Pictures 
unfaithful act. 

Although "Six Days, Seven Nights" is full of wit, clever puns and comic relief, it doesn't leave much of an impression on the viewer's mind. The trite love story draws from "older man, younger woman" pairings like in "Sabrina," but less skillfully -and hardly does any justice to the idea of fidelity. 
Still, it does appeal to men and women of all ages and the light and airy tone of the movie doesn't lead to late-night worries. But if true sus­pense and ingeniuity is what you are looking for, spend the extra money elsewhere. 
-~-----­

• NFL 
Powlus unable to make final cut with Oilers 
Associated l'ress after the draft ended. Former 
Notre Dame coach Lou Holtz 
NASIIVILLE, Tenn. even called team officials to 
Third-ynar veteran James tell them he thought Powlus Hitdwy from Stnplwn F. Austin would fit well in the Oilers' University on Tuesday beat out offense. Hon l'owlus, the four-year lie came in behind Ritchey, 
startnr at Notn~ Damn, for the who was also a free agent Teruwssce Oilers' No. 3 quar­when he signed with the Oilers terback job. in1996. and he was 5-of-12 for 
But Hitclwy is under pres­121 yards and two touchdowns sure to prove lw dnsnrves the through three nxhibitions. job in thn final nxhibition game But l'owlus played last week­Saturday against thn D1mver end against New Orleans, 
Broneos. while Hitchey -who is 6-of-11 
"What l told thnm i)oth was for 90 yards and one touch­that ./amos will play quite a bit down-didn't play at all. in tlw SlH:ond hall". and we llitehey said he thought he 
nxpnet to sen some results would be cut after not playing from that," roach .lldT Fisher against the Saints. said al't1~r practice. "I've had a knot in my gut Fislwr said he would have since about July 24. I came in, 
prnfnrred to klHlp l'owlus until and I said 'Is today going to be Sunday. wlwn hn'll make the the day?' You never know. and final rostnr r.ut to !"i:{. still I hadn't heard anythi'ng 
''I'm not saying that it's not from the New Orleans game. I ovPr, but I'm nxpneting a good didn't know," he said. performance out of .lames and Powlus, one of five players expect to sne significant released before practice improvenwnt out of him this Tuesday as the Oilers reduced wnnk," Fislwr said. their rostnr to 61, couldn't be 
l'owlus. who didn't hear his read1ed for comment. A league 
name callnd during April's NFL exemption allows the team to draft. had sigrwd a frnn agent keep one more than the 60­contract with the Oilnrs hours player maximum. 

NFL teams busy with preseason cuts and trades 
Associated Press 
Bill Bates, a special teams spndalist. will hn patrolling the sidnlinns only as a coach for the Dallas Cowboys this season. 
Tlw Cowboys on Tuesday dtlcidnd not to activall~ thn I 5­yPar Vt~Wran for the rngular spason roster as thn tPam pared down to tlw NFL limit of (>0. BatPs is tied with Ed Jones and Mark Tuirwi for most seasons as a Cowboy. 
"Nobody wanted this to be a toknn year for Bill. This was in the best inten~st of the team." t11am owner Jerry Jones said. 
Bates was disappointed but understood. 
"Everybody knows how I feel about playing football," said Bates, who joined the Cowboys as a frne agent out of Tennessee. "Every day l .have played since Day One has been · gravy." 
In other moves. Dallas eut 
fullback Dwayne Chandler, a first-year player from Oklahoma, and linebacker K.D. Williams of Henderson State. 
The Cowboys also traded future considerations to the New England Patriots for defen­sive lineman Artie Smith, a 6­foot-5, 305-pound five-year vet­eran who was out of football last year. 
Jaguars 
Steve Matthews, who led 

Jacksonville to a team-record 40 points in his only NFL start, was one of 18 players waived by the Jaguars. The team also put defensive tackle Don Davey, who has not fully recovered from arthroscopic surgery. on injured reserve. 
Two draft choices were among those waived: Harry Deligianis and Kevin McLeod. 
Patriots 

Linebacker f{on Merkerson, 
the Patriots' fifth-round draft choice out of the Colorado, was placed on injured reserve as New England reached the NFL roster limit. Nine players were releasnd. 
Packers 
Grenn Bay released quarter­back David Klingler, in his sev­enth season. offensive guard Doug Widell and defense end Paul Frase, both third-year pros. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day ffom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. ar 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds silieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe right to edit all classit!eds for content without issuing refunds. 
HTML EXPERT WANTED 

WANTED 
Fast-paced Internet design and 

management team needs a person Alter school child care needed. Mon skilled in HTMLCandidates must thru Fri, 3-5 pm, all or any days. have an advanced knowledge of Must be good with children. Car & HTML 3.2,including (but not limited references a must. to) tables, form design,server-side Day· 234-2211 (Angela) includes,style sheets and browser-Eve. · 271-8224 specific differences in HTML imple­
mentation.Strong preference will be Sports Officials Wanted given to candidates who are not 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY fine home within 10 miles of ND/SMC 219-291-7153 
Furnished room,air,kitchen,laundry fac.,3 min. N. of campus.272-0615 
Close to campus. Clean, 2 bdrm. Stove,refrigerator,security system. $450/month.$300 deposit.! yr lease.801 Corby.Pager 679· 8748.Piease leave#. 
TICKETMART Inc BUY -SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
ND FOOTBALL TICKETS VERY GOOD PRICES 2 MICH -1 PURDUE 1 BAYL-1 LSU HONEST/FAST DELIVERY 404 784 1128 Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. One Hey BRAD. Hellooo ... has your life-year placements in various sectors: time subscription kicked in yet? human rights, community develop-There's nothing like it, it's quite men!, youth, journalism, microenter-breathtaking. not at all 'pretty stan­prise, health, refugee relief, more. dard,' but then, you did always Internships in our Washington, DC accuse chestnuts of being lazy. office. Visions in Action. But you and I BOTH KNOW your 

(202) 625-7 403. .father didn't invent the question Visions@ igc.org mark. no...shush....that was a pre-Web: www.visionsinaction.org emptive shush. I have a whole bag 
lor Flag Football, Baseball, and dependent on HTML generation of shush. Soccer. Good pay,Fiexible hours tools and are able to produce com-Bed and Breakfast for Notre Dame FOR SALE UMPHREY's McGEE has returned and we will train lor each sport. plex HTML by hand.Skills in inter-games and events.Private home 2 FOOTBALL TICKETS from their sabbatical to perform two ohhh it's not even late and it's all Apply in person at Rolfs Sports lace design,image design and com-miles form campus. Private baths. 271-9412 very unique concerts this weekend: started already. 
Activity pression for Web use, and Center or call 631-5100. JavaScript are valuable.Salary plus 
benefits. Contact Coy Jankowski at Ask lor DeMond Thomas or JGSulliven,219.234.2211 ,or submit Jell Walker. a resume to 
Resumes @JGSullivan.com ND profs seek mature, loving 
babysitter lor great 15 month old girl. Flexible hrs, great pay. 234-FOR RENT 
2241, 631·7762, 631-7138. Off Campus Rentals 
EARLY CHILDHOOD Very, very reasonable rent DEVELOPMENT CENTER­NOTRE DAME AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY 
The Early Childhood Development (1998-99) 
Center at Noter Dame,located at 2-bedroom apartments 18680 Bulla Road,is currently 1 large house (2 students minimum) 
accepting applications from college Clean, washers/Dryers students lor part time positions. The Security Systems 
hours are 11:30 a.m.-1 :05 p.m. Plenty of Parking MWF and/or TTH. If you are inter-Call Dave or Carolyn] 
ested in applying, please contact 291-2209 
Thayer Kramer at 631·3344 for more information and an applica-1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR lion. CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW 
GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FTBL WKNDS-Charming Cape Cod 2 Bdrm/1 Bth,Sieeps 4-6,7 min drv,lncludes brkfst.For more info call 23?-4835 
FTBL WKNDS-Cute 3bed/2bath,sleeps 4-6,7min dr,lnclds brkfst.For more info call 233-3410 
FOR SALE 
Two lofts for sale ! Best offers ­must go! Call4·1439 
1010 Oak Ridge,5 bedroom,3 bath house.$109,000.Walk to NO .Well­maintained,adapted lor wheelchair user.2 car garage,wooded lot,cen­tral air,fireplace.Call Jane at 277­2755 
91 TEMPO, Auto, 4dr, Good Body, Runs Great, $1800/BEST. 257­1708 WANTED NO FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 
ND Football-Buy-Sell. Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 674-7645 
NO Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 .PM 288-2726 
2 Student Football applications for sale. 4-2795 
Buying Michigan vs Notre Dame Football Tickets. 277-1659 
For Sale Football Tickets All Games 272-7233 
FOR SALE. 2 Michigan GA's.Best Offer. 634-3193. Ask for Kim 

HEARTLAND-10:00 pm  Marie -watch out for that window I  
TONIGHT!  You never know what could cause  
$.99 cover w/student ID  damage to our "hooked up" room!"  
MICKEY'S PUB-10:00 pm  Gina-Go Usher/ you make me  
SATURDAY  wanna .... finish this line!  
$3 cover  
Hey Ali -I'm going to Wooster  
Check out their web site at:  school I  
www.nd.edu/-jroach/mcgee  
Julie S. -I know you signed up for  
x-tra cred with kt. just what were all  
VITO's Barbershop.  those extra hours about anyway?  
Closed All Day Sun and Wed.Open  
Daily 8-4,Sat 8-3.  Julie W.-thanx lor the run. you  
233-4767  rule, neighbor.  
CM · hey other neighbor. It's 3:03  
I've only been to two classes and  a.m. and we are still here. maybe if  
I'm already tired.  we're lucky we'll get a mente ~s  
arewardl  

cara· bring on !hero yo eating con-but at least Mark DeBoy is back -test! you're going down, chica! does anyone here think he's the 
cutest thing production has ever Maria Chacia -no more rock throw· 
The Early Childhood Development produced? I was SURE someone ing at innocent peoples' windows! Center,located at Saint Mary's 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. said that... 
TICKETS PERSONALS
College and the University of Notre FURN. $175. PER PERSON.272-let's just walk home; we can hold Dame.is looking lor volunteers who 6551 hands!
I I I 

enjoy young children./! you would NEED 2 MICH TIX! For your FREE W.W.J.D. bracelet, be interested in spending 2 hours a $$ and/or trade for LSU tix. Call call631-6385. hey spencer, you're fired. send classifieds! week reading children's That Pretty Place, Bed and Andrew at 904-94 7-67 46 daze or books,building with blocks,and Breakfast Inn has space available 672-7284 eves. Relive the memories/! Classic Irish jg· kg, eb, ml, mr · can you feel that singing songs with children,please lor football/parent wknds.5 Rooms Games from 1970s and 80s on or something? call Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 with private baths,$80· VHS Video. Complete network Chucky 0-I love you. Even in flip­(ECDC-SMC) or Thayer Kramer ar $115,Middlebury,30 miles from I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME broadcasts, most of excellent quali-flops (and that's really saying some-what's that red light on the floor? 631·3344 campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800· GAMES.272-6306 ty. Call Tom 410-309-0395; thing). (ECDC-ND).Piease join our fun 418-9487. Email:danyluk@erols.com don't forget refreshments for tix.­
filled days. 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 


Percivel delivers New York third consecutive loss 
Associated Press Jeter had four hits for the Star break. this season. Kenny Rogers (12-6) couldn't Yankees and Williams had It was the 13th time Thomas change his pattern on the road
Boston 3, Oakland 2
NEW YORK three. and Belle hit back-to-hack and suffered the loss. Hogers, 
The Anaheim Angels handed Winner Allen Watson (6-7) homers since they became Darren Lewis hit a tie-break­9-0 with a 2.13 EHA at home, the New York Yankees a rare relieved Omar Olivares in the teammates last year. ing home run leading off the fell to 3-6 with a 4.23 ERA in three-game losing streak, rely­fourth with the Angels down 4-Mussina gave up five runs seventh inning and Nomar his road starts. ing on reliever Troy Percival to 1. and nine hits in 6 2-3 innings, Garciaparra went 4-for-4 as 
Toronto 3, Kansas City 0 
survive a tense ninth inning for Hideki Irabu, pitching for the striking out five and walking the Boston Bed Sox beat the a 7-6 victory Tuesday night. first time since being hit on the one. Oakland Athletics 3-2 Tuesday Hoger Clemens struck out 18 
Not since opening the season left instep by a batted ball 10 Chad Bradford (2-0) pitched night. and won his11 th straight deci­with two losses at Anaheim days ago, took a 4-3 lead into two innings of hitless relief for Garciaparra, who went 0-sion as he pitched the Toronto and a defeat at Oakland had the seventh. He left after a the win. Keith Foulke gave up for-5 in his previous game Blue Jays to 3-0 victory over New York dropped three in a leadoff walk to Randy Velarde, a three-run homer to Rich S~nday, singled in his first the Kansas City Royals on row. The Yankees had their and Stanton took over and Becker in the ninth. three at-bats before doubling Tuesday night. Clemens, who chance to win this one when made a wild pickoff throw. Magglio Ordonez hit a two­in the seventh to equal his has struck out 20 in a nine­they loaded the bas!)s with two Darin Erstad grounded a run double in the second, but career-high hit game, accom­inning game twice and shares outs in the ninth, but Percival tying double down the first­Baltimm:e closed within a run plished four times during his the record with Chicago Cubs lunged to grab Derek Jeter's base line and later scored on in the fifth when B.J. Surhoff 1997 AL Rookie of the Year rookie Kerry Wood, had 14 grounder for the final out. Garret Anderson's single for a hit an RBI single off starter season. strikeouts in the first seven 
The Angels increased their 5-4 lead. Glaus met Tom Fordham. The win was Boston's eighth innings. AL West lead to 3 1/2 games Mike Buddie with a two-run in nine games against the Clemens struck out 15 or
Cleveland 10, Seattle 4

over Texas and improved to 5-double. Glaus and Matt Athletics this season. Mike more for the ninth time in his 3 against the Yankees -the Walbeck hit RBI singles in the Manny Ramirez was 4-for-4 Blowers had a solo homer for career and surpassed the AL only club to hold an edge over sixth that pulled the Angles to with his 31st homer and five Oakland, which suffered only strikeout high for the season. the team with the best record 4-3. Jim Edmonds, who missed HB!s as the Cleveland Indians its second loss in eight games, Clemens has had 89 double­in baseball. the previous three games, sin­defeated the Seattle Mariners coming ofT its season-best 6-2 digit strikeout games in his 
Rookie Troy Glaus' double gled in both the sixth and sev­10-4 Tuesday night. homestand. major league career. lie has keyed a four-run rally in the enth innings. Pinch-hitter Chili Ken Griffey Jr., who leads Greg Swindell (4-5) picked 39 strikeouts in his last three seventh inning for the Angels. Davis singled off the left-field the AL with 44 homers, was 1-up his first Bed Sox victory games. Clemens walked off the They won their fourth straight wall in the Yankees' seventh. for-4 with a single and a walk, since being acquired by from mound to a standing ovation overall and joined Boston as failing to homer for the first Minnesota July 31. He was 0-2 from the 26,117 at SkyDome
Chicago 6, Baltimore 4
the only teams to take two in a time in three games. with Boston. after posting his second row at Yankee Stadium this Frank Thomas and Albert Hamirez singled, doubled Tom Gordon got the last shutout this season and the year. Belle hit consecutive homers twice and hit a 432-.foot three outs for his 37th save. 43rd of his career. 
Anaheim picked on Mike for the the seventh time this homer, missing only a triple in Stanton (4-1) and New York's season, and the Chicago White his bid to become the first shaky middle relief for four Sox beat the Baltimore Orioles Cleveland player in 20 years to runs in the seventh for a 7-4 6-4 Tuesday night to stop a hit for the cycle. lead. six-game losing streak. The Indians won for the sixth 
Percival, meanwhile, Mike Mussina (12-7) lost for time in nine games and scored remained near-perfect against only the second time in 10 seven runs with two outs. the Yankees in earning his starts since the All-Star break snapping out of their clutch­36th save in 39 chances. He as the Orioles dropped nine hitting drought. got five outs, and has now games behind Boston in the AL David Segui hit his 17th 
Kaplan. Think of 
pitched 17 1-3 scoreless wild-card race. homer for the Mariners, whose 
innings against the Yankees in Baltimore, which has the four-game winning streak was 
us as the first
his career, striking out 26. best record in baseball since snapped. Percival took over after an the break at 31-12, lost for the Charles Nagy (11-9) won for RBI single by Paul O'Neill fifth time in its last 13 games. the first time in three starts, 
step in grad school
made it 7-6 with one out in Thomas made it 5-1 in the allowing four runs and eight the eighth. With runners on seventh with a two-run homer hits in 5 2-3 innings. He first and second, he struck out off Mussina, his 24th of the walked two and struck out six. 

admissions. 
Bernie Williams and got Tino season. Belle then celebrated Hamirez had his eighth 
Martinez on a grounder. his 32nd birthday by connect­career four-hit game and is 
Your GRE score Is critical to your grad school application and financial aid award. How you prepare can make all the difference. Come to Kaplan,. the leader in GRE prep.
O'Neill hit his 19th home run ing off Alan Mills for his 39th batting .378 with six homers 
We"II help you get the score you need to get into your top-choice grad school. 
and Martinez doubled twice. homer, his 21st since the All-and 19 RB!s against Seattle 

Take a Practice GRE Test TIDS THURSDAY @ 6:30pm in Nieuwland Hall! Call 1-800-KAP-TEST to sign up! 
AUDITIONS! 
'(t),,·'"•... 
.-i:t1D,D) •
•:fpjQ!Pilt .-. .. :
for 
'. ' . 
I I I' t.
1-800-KAP-TEST ,


Notre Dame Shenanigans 
www.kaplan.com 

he University's only singing and dancing ensemble 
Call or check out our web site to study anywhere in the U.S. 
We are looking for singers, dancers, and 
musicians including piano, percussion, guitar, 
bass, and horn players. 
•Broadway 
•Jazz 

•Meet new people •Oldies 
Good Pay Flexible Hours 
•Spring Break Tour •Pop 
•Traditional Irish 


Tuesday, August 25th and Wednesday, August 26th 
8:00pm -1O:OOpm
-
115 O'Shaughnessy Hall 

or Jeff Walker 
No Preparation Necessary. 

II, Baseball, Soccer 
http://www.nd.edu/-shenana For more information call us at 631-5896 

UNC 
continued from page 16 
investigation of Dorrance and till! womnn 's soccer program about two weeks ago. 
"Although wo found no evi­dnnce of misconduct, we did conelude his conduct did fall short of' eonduet. of the stan­dards of good judgment we nxpect," Baddour said. 
Louis Varehntto, a lawyer from Wheaton, Ill., who is rep­rns!~nting both players, eould not bn rnach!~d for comment after th!~ rwws conference Tuesday night. 
K!~ller, of Napnrville, Ill., also all!~ges that Dorranee forced her to come baek from a foot injury too soon and eoereed her into partieipating in the U.S. Olympic wonwn's soccer camp in February I !J<J(J without a cus­tom shoo that would havn aided hnr rehabilitation. 
Dorrance also told Jennings 
t.o withdraw $400 from her hank account to purchase unspec i find su pp Iins for her tnammatns and nwmbnrs of the Clemson so!~cer team prior to a Septmnber I <J 1H1 game, the law­suit says. 
.Jnrmings, of St. Charles, Ill., was on thn tnartt during the I<J<J(J and I1J<J7 seasons but quit in I 997, a school offieial said. 
In addition to the school and Dorrar11~e. the lawsuit also nanws as dnfPndants three assistant coadws and a trainer, Baddour, UNC-Chap!d llill ehan­cPllor Miehanl Hooker. an assis­tant to Hooker and former school athletics director and currnnt Atlantic Coast Confernncn cornmissionnr John Swofford. 
"I am nxtremely surprised by the elaims against Coach Dor-rancp," said Swofford, who 
• IRISH INSIGHT 


Scandal will test Tar Heels' talent 
Courtesy of North Carolina Sports Information 

Debbie Keller, at North Carolina from 1993-96, recently sued her for­mer coach with allegations of sexual harassment and other misconduct. 
was UNC athletics director from At least one player also voiced 1980-97. "I never received any her support for Dorrance after indication or even hint of sexual the news conference. harassment in this program "We feel it is vital that our during my time in Chapel Hill. deep feelings in this matter be This is a personnel matter and understood, especially by indi­I'm sure it will be handled viduals unfamiliar with our pro­appropriately by the universi­gram," midfielder Beth ty." Sheppard said. "We find this sit­
The ACC plans no separate uation deplorable and are hurt investigation of the charges, by these accusations which, to Swofl'ord said. our knowledge, are false." 
~THLEEN LOPEZ Sports Editor 

The giant has been wounded. 
The weakened beast stands helpless. It is merely a matter of time before it collapses. The qvestion is whether or not the Fighting Irish are up to the 
chaU~nge. 

•TM women's soccer pro­gram at the University of North Carolina suffered a devastatingblow to its otherwise untar­nished reputation. Former North Carolina star and U.S. national team member Debbie Keller and another former UNCplayer, Melissa Jennings, filed a 12 million dollar lawsuit agaitlst the University. and Anson Dorrance, University of North Carolina head coach, alleging sexual harassment, battery and invasion of priva­cy. 
Since the beginning of women's soccer, the University of North Carolina and Dorrance have been one of the n!ttion's top programs. In its ste¢J>ed tradition, there lies no coritroyersy, until now, 
·The question is what will these allegations do to the pro­gram. Rarely does a program maintain its powerhouse status when rumors begin to fly. 
The powerhouse has defi­nitely weakened. The spotlight will become more intense and the scrutiny greater. Will it be abl~tg.stay in tact and keep a grip o-q its star status? 
In less than three weeks, the University of Notre Dame heads south. It will have Carolina only it::; mind. Within the past five years, the rivalry has grown and the game between Notre Dame and North Carolina captures the soccer world's attention for a weekend. 
Usually, the winner ofthis game earns bragging rights until they meet again come tournament time. The question is will the Tar Heels be able to me these allegations away and focus on the game. 
Last year, the game came to a stalemate when the heavens opened up to reveal a down· pour of rain. And the Irish fell victim to the Huskies of the University of Connecticut before they got a chance to challenge for the champi­onship title. 
With rumors dreulating about the soceer world, one must wonder what repercus· sions this will have on Notre Dame's season. A solid win in North Carolina might earn the Irish a chance to get what they so rightly deserve, 
Everyone loves to watch the mighty one fall. Dorrance, a soccer god in many realms, could lose his prestige as the season progresses. Teams may no longer fear the Tar Peels. 
With the 1998 season rapidly approaching, one must wonder if at the end, a new king will be crowned. The Irish stood poised to topple the wounded giant. The question is whether it can nurse its wound before Notre Dame comes to town. 

Class of 1999... 
THURSDAY • AUGUST 27 join us for cool music, dancing and back to school prices! • 99¢ Specials 
-
• 99¢ Cover with Student ID ($5 without) 

~ I 
The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, August 26, 1998 
I  
l  
Volleyball  
continued from page 16  

lenging matches as allowed. The conference play alone is super exciting." 
The packed schedule begins Tuesday, Sept. 1, at Manchester College, who defeated the Belles in their one battle last season. This season will offer especially tough 
tournament competition, including the SMC Spectacular, SMC 
Triangular,  Ohio  Northern  
Tournament  and  Kalamazoo  
College Invitational.  

The first game was planned as a home contest for Saint Mary's, however, since the court in Angela Athletic Facility is being replaced with a wooden floor, the match was moved. 
Because of the renovation, the Belles have been practicing 15 min­utes away on the Bethel College courts without air conditioning. 
Although Saint Mary's is anxious to get back on the home court, they are not expecting to cool off in any way. 
"I think we're really coming together as-a team," Bill said. 01 think we have a lot of talent ... We just need to keep our intensity level up. The first game will be exciting to see how we play together as a team." 

Photo courtesy of Saint Mary's Athletic Department 
Jayne Ozbolt tallied 90 blocks her sophomore year and ranked second in blocks per game for the Belles. 

Kickers 
continued from page 16 
38 games over the course of four years. The most likely can­didate is junior Dan O'Leary, who will serve as tight end this season along with Jabari Holloway. 
While the word 'consistency' comes to mind when studying Smith's career, it is rarely used when describing the placekick­ing game for the past two years. 
This year, the Irish will deal with the departure of senior Scott Cengia, who played a key role on the kicking units for the past four years. His departure leaves the role of kicker up in the air, with at least four possi­ble players available for the position. 
With the departure of Cengia, the most experienced place­kicker on the squad is junior Jim Sanson. The lone returnee in that position, Sanson went 5­for-10 in field goal duties last season and converted 15-of-16 PATs. 
After booting a 39-yard field goal as time expired to give the Irish a 27-24 victory at Texas in 1996, he missed half of his attempts. 
"Jim Sanson comes in No. 1," Bob Davie said. "He has the experience; it's just that some of those experiences have been negative." 
When a torn quadriceps injury sidelined Sanson for the latter half of last spring, Kevin McDonnell was -given the place­kicking duties for the annual Blue-Gold game. The senior made an impressive showing in the preseason scrimmage, con­verting all six of his PATs and booting a 44-yard field goal in the last play of the first half. 
After the game, Davie said he was pleased but still uncertain about the performance. 
"The kicking game was really a positive," he said. "You can have a lot of competition in practice, but that's different from the game at that position." 
This year's recruiting class provides the Irish with two more options for the kicker position: David Miller and Adam Tibbie. 
A native of Granger, Ind., Miller is no stranger to inclement weather. In his senior year, he went 9-of-14 en route to his team's third straight 5A state title. The high­light of his season came during the semifinals, when he kicked 




Back-to·Scbool 
Sa--­
LOOKING FOR INEXPENSIVE FURNITURE FOR YOUR DORM ROOM? Visit our Western Avenue store for bargains galore. 

TIME TO UPDATE YOUR 
-
WARDROBE? Stop by our NEW 9,000 sq. ft. store on 
Cleveland Road West near Meijer_ We'll help you stretch your back.to-school dollar! 
three field goals, including one to tie the game in the final minute of regulation time to preserve a 16-13 overtime vic­tory. Over the course of his career, Miller went 15-of-23 on field goals and 118-of-126 PATs. 
Tibbie, a walk-on from Northville, Mich., has shown a stronger leg and more consis­tency during practices earlier this season. 

With the uncertainty in the last year where it was divided kicking game, Davie said he among three people equally," believes all four players might Davie said. "I do think Jim have a chance to play some role Sanson is ahead." when the Sept. 5 matchup with But the question of who the perennial rival Michigan rolls starting kicker will be is still in around. doubt and probably will not be 
"It's open as far as Miller and answered until the Wolverines Tibbie. Yet it's not like it was come to town. 
~HE

Recycle \.JBSERVER 
FULBRIGHT COMPETITION 1999-2000 
Attention Current Seniors!!!!! 
Ifyou are interested in graduate study and research abroad, don't miss the informational meeting THURSDAY, AUGUST 27-6:00 p.m. 126 DeBartolo with Professor Alain Toumayan, Advisor 
TUESDAY& SATURDAY DJ DANCE PARTY 2 DJ'S 50 CENT DRINI<S 
L~~:K\Jnq-f@r :.ants. eall f@r :J@@:tinq-inf@ 
This Thursday 1/2 Price Drinks! No Cover! DJ! 
283.0653 -1150 Mishawaka Ave. 
Take Eddie Street to the Mishawaka Ave. Exit At First Light. For more info on these nights NJGH~......--Ti_C:_~_U_B__, email us at XTREAMZCLB@aol.com 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
,----------­
-~---~~~---, 
I It \\iJ\n't 'uon afler Zucu ~.:ainl'<l hb ht::•nng~ and lixcd his hair. that u lll\\lcnuu~ 'tight appL•arcd tn•furc him. 
• 
FOXTROT 
I  HEAR 'lbUR BRoTHER  HE  
IS TRYtNG To TEAcli  lNtNkS  
HIS IGUANA To  IT'LL  

PLAY SPoRTS. GET HIM AMoVIE DEAL.
-~0/. 
I

s~ 
'j 
DILBERT 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

I'D Lli<.E TO ii\LK ~OOUT 1"\Y CAREER 
C"ulko11, Chris llurkl', Cc•r,lldi!H' 
Ferraro 

flappy Birthday: Let your Imagi­nation flow this year. You will have some wonderful ideas and if you just stick to your plans, you will acrnm· plish c·vervthing that you sc•t out to du. Your charm and grace will draw uthers to vour side, so don't ever be afraid to 'ask them to pitch in and help. You will get tht> response that vou' re looking for. Your numbers: I, 
H. 20, 33, 38, 47 

ARIES (March 21-Aprit 19}: Don't b<~ng your head against a wall. You arc ready to blow up and your stress 
level has gone into overdrive. Sit b,1ck. Acceptance is till' key. Realize th,1t you don't haw to do everything vourself. Toke the day to relax and pamper yourself. 000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20}: You will be accident-prone if you aren't careful today. Daydreaming will be your downfall. Don't count on others 
io cover up for ~·our shortcomings or 
lac>. of concentration. 000 GEMINI (May 21-June 20}: This woll not be the d,l\' tc> start new busi­
ness venturt:'~ or makl• drastic 
changes on your career. Risk}' finan­
ci<ll ventures will result in unrecovcr­
.1bk• losses. 00000 CANCER (June 21-July 22}: 
Expect to havt! more people on your dnmestic scene. Don't go out of your way for them, and don't let these unexpected guests cost you any of your hard-earned money 00 
LEO (July B·Aug. 22}: You can wrltL~ LIL'dlltll'ul luv~ lettL~rs todav Your romantic inclin.1tion should lea·d to a committed rdationship. You will 
It \\:1..., ••~,mall man \\ilh .t Ioiii.! \\lllll' hl'ard. IlL• nt:lrfllliL'd Zlll'U In thi., rh:h land and intrndun•d him tu it ... inhahitoants. the I>OIIIL'f'-... 
EXACTLY. ALTHOUGH HE'S NoT HA'VtN6 A 
7HEY SHOVLD BE fiERE 

CELI:BIUTIE~ BOI(N ON TillS
ANY SECo/VD ... 

DAY: llr,llllord MarsJI"· Macaulay 


So FAR HE'S ELIMINATED BASkETBALL, BASEBALL, HockEY, FRISBEE, lACRoSSE, BoWLING, SKEET Sl-lool1NG 
AND J'uoo. 
\ 

~--..... 

MY PLAN I5 TO WORK 'YOU UNHL '<OUR. HE.ALTH DEiE.RI.ORATE.5 AND '<OUR 5\<..ILL5 
ARE 0550L£.TE.. TI-\EN 
I'LL OOWNSll£. '<OU. \ 
62 Myanmar. formerly 63 Kind of cake 64 Shade of gray 65 Make dim 66 Actor Erwtn 
67 Concur 68 Walk furtively 69 Mounl, woth 
"on" 
DOWN 
1 Ltke many watches 2 Costume 3 Rag 4 MacDonald of old films 5 Where sacrifices are made 6 "The doctor 
1 Cheerful tune a Biblical brother and namesakes 9 21 shillings 10 Scottish 32Audacity pattern: Var. 

33 Meal in a box 11 Like Abner 
34 Arcade name 12 Southeast Asian 36 Door on the 13 ". ·-'nuffl" floor 21 Make--­
39 Like some 
Foundation 
ancient 22 1977 George 
inscriptions Burns film 
40 Crayola's25 Tony-wonnmg 
parentsinger Lotte 
company 26 Stop. on France 
41 Dwight's 21 Stop 

opponent in '52 29 Rubs out 
46 Repeat 3Q Middays performance 
I'M 
lLL. 
l 
I:H LL AlVl.t.l\1 U 
tM SuRPRISED HE QUINCY, HASN'T ALSo No! ELIMINATED I SAID QUINCY. 'THROW 
.I 
THE DART, NoT EAT IT.' 
I 
SCOTT ADAMS 
RE.A.LL'<? I'\1£. 

Birthday Baby: You can haw everything you set your mind to. You haw grc•at l'ioion and you know whJt will and what won't work. Y<>ur gentle way of 
N£.VE.R 1-\f>-0 ~ 
PLAN WOR\<. 

d~tlling with others rnakes it difficult for <~nyone to sa~· no to you. You h.wt:" what it t.1kes to ma>.e .1 difference.
il--115 FI\ST B£F'ORE.. 
• OF INTEREST 

A! Opening Mass -Participants for the OjJening Mass may rent their caps and gowns at the Notre Dame Bookstore today from 9 a.m. to 7 p.m. See Lori Moser or call1·8495. 
Folk Dance -Today at 7:30p.m., the women from Saint Mary's College will be hosting a Folk Dance in the Clubhouse. There is a fee for admission. 
The Big Lebowski -The film "The Big Lebowski" will be showing at the Annenberg Auditorium at the Snite Museum of Art on Saturday. There is a small price for admission. 
Drive-in on the Quad -The movies "Scream" and "Swingers" will be playing outside on the big screen on North Quad Saturday at dusk. Free popcorn and sodas to the early birds. Admission only to Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students with stu­dent ID. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
PATH. 
ACROSS 
1 O'Rourke of "F Troop" 4 Incarcerates 9 Vexes 14 Tony 
15 Moss Donsmore of choldren's books 
16 Husband ol Balhsheba 17 Gove --whirl 18 Slanted 19 Home 1n a dome 20 B-less ftgure on a coon 23 Volcano. at 
lomes 24 Defeal soundly 28 ·· the 
house" 31 French sailing vessel 
32 Play at full volume 
35 Picture, tn commercial names 
37 Powerful D.C. lobby 38 B-less U.S. leader 42 Santa 43 Scl1. lounded 111 1845 
44 ".. --which will live in tnfamy" 
45 Pass play 
48 Bad news for Exxon 50 Shivaree 52 Purse parts 56 B-less film legend 59 Anomal track 


ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
HEATIPUPALIOLES 
0 U R S E R A S E N A S A 
~~..;.ENEGGSANDHAM 
SOS.ODEON.EERI E ~~A R ~-MIA C-

p 
I G M EIA T M AIR KIH AM SA 
NIT A .L 
E AlPS .A 

R A H U 

G R 

I T I L 
R TISGIS SIO 

L. I CIE R S. BAT E S 
v I 
EN N JSIAIUIS AIG. -A CIT U SIS 
ARU8A.FLARE·~g~ 
8 A C 0 N S R E B E L l I 0 N 
8UL81PANELIARNO 
A L A S A N T S Y 8 E A T 
Make checks payable to: The Observer
The Observer 

and mail to: P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 Published Monday through Friday, 1he Observer 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic yearis a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's D Enclosed is $45 for one semesterCommunity. 
Name ________________________________~---------­Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ________________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the City ____________. State ____Zip________two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
54 "Republic" 
author 55 Arrange 57 Pause 



editors.
58 Eins • zwei 59 Workout site so Little Margaret 
61 Row 


Join The Observer 
47 Channel swimmer Gertrude· 
49 Cool guy? 51 Former 
Redskins coach 
Joe 

53 Not stay still in a container 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75a: per minute). 

staff. 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: (800) 762·1665. 
h.l\'1' o1 gn'.ll d.l\' 11 yuu JU.... t .....1y wh.ll you 1<'<'1. 0000 VIJ((;() (Aug. 23-Scpt. 22}: Con­
n•ntr,ltl' on work. You can pick up 
additionJI responsibility that will lead 
to higher wages and a better position. 
Opportunities to make financial gains 
through invL•stnwnts ll)Ok pnlmising. 
000 
LlllRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Social events will lead to a strong and stable relatwnship. You can make personal changes that will enhance your reputation ,md give you greater self-coniidence. 000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): It's time to make professional changes. You may wa'nt to talk to your boss abDut your tuture goals. Romance will dewlop thwugh wDrk, but pro­ceed with cautic1n 000 
SAGITIARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21}: Financial affairs do not look tuo favorable today. It is best to keep your cash in the safest possible· place. Get promises on writing or you will be disappointed. 0000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19}: Your personal situation is tluctuating. 
Those close to vour he•ut may be dif· ficult to re,1son with. l~1lk to someone you trust in order to see tht> whL)Ie picture 00 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Opportunitocs to get together with friends will be enlightening "nd entcrtainin~. You will find the philo­sDphies ot those you encounter worth looking into. 00000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Don't be a pest or a troublemaker today. You will be lull of energy and vnu nt•t•d to tlnd "'nwthlng construdivc• to do. Avoid purchasing expensive items.OOO 



Angels remain only • Ron Powlus was 

team with an edge on released Tuesday by the 

the Yankees by handing Tennessee Oilers, after 

New York a third 

failing to make the final 





PORTS • 
straight loss. 

cut as a backup QB. 

THE 

Wednesday, August 26, 1998 ----------------OBSERVER 
I I 
i 
I I I. 
I 
I 

Sanson and 
Smith projected 

season starters 
By BILL HART Assisrall! Sports Editor 
Change is in the air for spe­cial teams this year. including its coaching staff. 
In an effort to jumpstart the kicking and receiving units, head coach Bob Davie extended receiving coach Urban Meyer's duties to all aspects of special teams. 
"I'm very excited." Meyer said, "I don't think it will take away my focus from the receivers. But it's probably going to take away time from my family, shaving and the other necessities in life." 
The only position that is prac­tically set in stone is the punter, where senior Hunter Smith has established a niche for himself in the Irish lineup. 
Smith enters the 1998 season considered one of the best pun­ters in the nation. 
Last season, he averaged 42.6 yards per kick, dropping only slightly from his 43.3 yard aver­age the year before. In the past 23 games, Smith has averaged more than 40 yards a punt in 

· 17 of attempts. Barring any unforeseen inci­dents·. he is likely to become the fourth punter in Notre Dame history to start for four seasons. "Our punter is a proven punter," head coach Bob Davie said about Smith's perfor­
• fOOTBALl 

• COI..LEGE SOCCER 
Former UNC soccer · players sue coach 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

Hunter Smith is likely to maintain his stronghold on the Irish punting job. 
mance. "There's no question cerns on the punting unit was that we're solid there. Hunter how to replace Jon Spickelmier, is our holder, too." who served as long snapper for 
One of Davie's major con-
see KICKERS I page 14 
Associated Press 

CIIAPEL HILL, N.C. 
Two former North Carolina soccer players, including two­time national women's player of the year Debbie Keller, 
have sued 

R:=l=t=tr·''t' 'lil 
coach Anson 

• Irish Insight:
Dorrance, accusing him 

"Tar Heels tal­of sexual 
ent tested by harassment 
scandal" and other 
p.3misconduct. '---------' Keller, who played for the Tar Heels from 1993-96, alleges in a lawsuit filed Monday in U.S. District C6urt in Chicago that Dorrance made uninvited sexual advances and harassed her during and after her college career. North Carolina has been the most dominant women's soc­cer program in the nation, winning 14 of the 16 NCAA women's soccer titles contest­ed, including last year's. Dorrance is the only coach the program has had in its 20­year history. Keller, a member of the U.S. women's national team, alleges that Dorrance repeat­edly made "uninvited, unau­thorized and offensive physi­cal contact" with her between 1994 and 1996. In October 1996, the lawsuit alleges, Dorrance coerced Keller into meeting him at a secluded area where he madean "unin­vited sexual advance." The other player, Melissa 
Jennings, alleges in the same lawsuit that Dorrance encour­aged her to drink alcohol while she was still a minor. 
The women are seeking a combined $12 million in com­pensatory and punitive dam­ages against Dorrance and other defendants. which include the University of North Carolina at Chapel llill, school and athletic administrators and women's assistant coach­es. Several of the defendants denied the allegations Tuesday. 
Dorrance fought ofT tears as he answered the charges with his wife, Melissa, and brother, Peter, at a news conference Tuesday. 
"This is obviously humiliat­ing and embarrassing," Dorrance said, 'Til say this for my family, they are a powerful collection of people and I've appreciated all their support in this." 
When asked by a reporter if he had a sexual relationship with Keller: "Certainly not," he responded. 
The lawsuit also alleges that school officials failed to inter­vene despite numerous com­plaints from Keller and Jennings. Dorrance repeatedly made "lewd and degrading comments" in front of Keller and made sexually explicit comments about a teammate. the lawsuit said. 
UNC athletics director Dick Baddour said Tuesday the school finished an internal 
see UNC I page I 3 
• SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles' young team searches for leadership 
Without any seniors, Saint Mary's season rests on four juniors 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
This season's leaders on Saint Mary's volleyball team will not have that one extra learning year before stepping into the leadership role. 
On a squad without seniors, juniors Mary Rodovich, Jayne Ozbolt, Agnes Bill and Melissa Miller will be relied upon as the team's elders. 
Fortunately the Belles, who finished last season just below .500, the juniors have the necessary experience to lead the crew which also includes two 
"' 
sophomores and five freshmen. 
"Teamwise, the four returning juniors have enough experience and everyone has the heart and the willingness to become a strong team," Bill said. "We knew we were losing two seniors last year and the four of us juniors knew we'd have to step it up." 
As sophomores, they were constant 

forces on the court. 
Rodovich led the team in service aces last season and played all but one game. Ozbolt played in every game and was second 1n the team in blocks per game, finishing the season with a total of 90. Bill, who also played in every game, has led in kills the past two years. 
"Definitely, they're my core," head coach Jennie Joyce said. "They have a little more pressure being on them [as juniors.] It effects them to a point, but they'll have to be the mature leaders, the examples of what we're looking for on the court." 
Some of that pressure will be relieved by sophomores Megan Jardina and Victoria Butcko. Both started several games last season and were consistent­ly placed in the lineup last season. 
Consistency will be key, considering the youth of the team and the difficult schedule ahead. 
Several conference games and tour­naments have been planned to help heighten the Belles' level of play. 
"It's a very aggressive schedule," said Joyce. "We scheduled as many chal­
see VOLLEYBALL I page 14 


vs Michigan -¥if <t'ii: vs Valparaiso 

September 5, 1:30 p.m. ;:'fvt September I, 7:30 p.m. 
(!I
SPORTS 
Cross Country 
., 

vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler 
ATA 

September 12, 1 I a.m.
.,,. 
at Michigan State at Valparaiso

• 
\!J September I, 4 p.m. September I, 7 p.m . 
GLANCE 

' ~ 
• 






