¦ HAPPY THANKSGIVING! 
¦ Will the Fighting Irish improve to I 0-1 

Tuesday
against USC on Saturday night? See today's 

Today's paper will be the last before rhe holi­
spons pullout. 
NOVEMBER

day break. The Observer will next publish on 
Tuesday, Dec. 1 . 

Irish Insider 
24, 1998 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 58 
¦ STUDENT GOVERNMENT 

Action grants relief from parking tickets 
By lDllBEL CRUZ New, Wrircr 
Tlwrn is now 11 souree of ndid" l'rom a fo111iliar cam­pus problnm. 
Un r o II l <' s la h IP park i11 g violalions hav11 long irritat­Pd Notn· Danw studnnts, hut that may c•nd with stu­llPnl govPrllllH'llt'S !WW ser­vict! 10 hnlp stud1•11ts app!1al tlwir parking tickets. 
TIH• st11cl1•nt govnrnrnent rc•prc•sPnlativP on the park­ing app1•als board, sopho­mor1\ Brl'1Hlan Burns. will now IH• :iv11ilabin to offor assistarwe lo studPnts wish­ing to appeal their parking tickPls. Hurns will lw avail­able in thn student govern­nwnl orlini (nvery Thursday 1wPning from 7-8 p.m.J to providP and lrnlp slurlnnts ,·omplotl' the necessary papur work to appeal Orn lickets. 
Morn importantly, Burns will s1wak on llf'half ol' cited stud1ints at the parking appnals hoard. which meets to discuss disputccl tickets 
¦ STUDENT SENATE 
and voles wlrnthcr or not to approve the appeal. 
"I think that I haw1 a good understanding of thn proc11ss when I sit on the board," said Hurns. "J\s a studnnt I know through my 11x1ierir11c11s and my friends tho amounts ol' tickcts that arl' issued. I havn first-hand knowlt\dge tlrnt administra­tion ,rnd gra£1uatc stu1fo11ts cannot giv1\." 
The idea for this new ser­vice came from student body prcsid(ml Peter Cesaro and vicn presidnnl Andrea S1dak. The leaders' goal was to increase awareness ol' appualing parking tickets 
and to counsel students through the procedure. 
"Many stud(rnts do not realize that they can appeal their tickets. [The chance for appeal I is written very small on the back of the ticket and authorities do not volunteer information on how students can dis­pute tickets," explained Todd Callais, the executive coordinator or the trans-

Senate meets in Senior Bar to discuss social space 
By TIM LOGAN 
Assisi,1111 N,·ws hliror 
,\t ari unusual Monday night nrnnting twlcl at llw Alu11111i-SPnior Club, the Stud!'nt Snnatti approv<'d a letter Pn1·011raging profossors to allow sturlm1ts lO suhmit drafts or papnrs for advice and corrnct.ions bflfom their linal dnadlino. 
Tl11• idea. which was part of' the Stw!(•nt Union's fall s,mrnster Board or Trust1His report, sparknd signi!'icant d1~bale -s1111w senators questioned the rwrPssity ol' making this request of t11aclwrs who often offer to read first drafts anyway. while others strnssfld that it was an effort to improvn students' writing abilities. 
"Notrn Dame is trying to increase the quality ol' its sfudl'nti,;," said Fisher sena­tor Phi! Dittmar. "Tlw point ol' this is to Pnco11ragn drafting, so that you can lwconw a bntlcr writPr." 
S1iv!'ral st>nators point.id out that Nnln~ Darrn: has lwf'n trying to incrnasc 


portation committee. "Hopefully this new pro­gram will get the word out and save some money for the students." 
Student government hopes that this new pro­gram will avoid unjustilied costs for students resulting from parking tickets. A sin­gle parking ticket, depend-
the number of scholarships and grants that its students receive. and that writ­ing ability plays an important part in the sel11ction procnss for these awards. They also noted that writing is an important job skill, which is valued by employers. 
"We need to do everything we can to make Notre Dame students more mar­ketable," said St. Edward's senator .Judson Penton. "That is all we're doing." 
Other l'orms of' writing were also addrnssed, however, including scientific papers that tend to be more definitively r.haracterizcd as right or wrong. This was seen as a potential problem. 
"It would be virtually impossible for me not to get an A in a physics lab report," said Carroll senator Pat Foy. "It's either right or wrong. I'd go to the teacher. hand him a pa1wr l!urn it in with suggostcd corrections! and aulo­matieally g~1t an A becausn hn has to giw nw the answer ]undm· this suggos­lillnl.'' 
Members also questioned I.hi'! spirit of 
thn letter, suggesting that it imposed bolrnvior on tcal'lrnrs while students often do not takr, advan­tage of the faculty office hours or take an active role in mattnrs such as this. 
"Wc'rn in college now," said Breen-Phillips sena­tor Rhea Gertken. "Students have to show initiative. We shouldn't tell professors to tell siu­dnnts to have initiative." 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum The measure passed by
Toy WWF Championship belts at helped encourage sen­a 14-7 vote. 
ate members to slam down chicken wings at last night's 
In other senate news:
meeting. 
ing on the offense can range from $10 to $100. 
"Many students park on campus because the securi­ty guard gives them permis­sion anfl they still get tick­ets. There are even visitor parking areas which do not say students cannot park there and they get tickets 
see TICKETS I page 4 

WWW. ND.EDU/~OBSERVER 
Students travel to protest U.S. military school 
By BRAD UNTIEDT 
News Writer 
Twelvo members of tlrn Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community travelled to Fort Binning, Ga., t.o participate in a demonstration and prayer vigil against the U.S. Army School of the Americas (SOA). 
The SOA is an Army-based training facility for Latin American soldiers that has provided schooling for notorious Latin American dictators and proven human rights abusers. 
The students left Friday afternoon to join almost 7,000 people from around the world who gatherod at Fort Binning to protest the SOA. The group prayur vigil was held to observe the ninth anniversary of the murder of six Jesuit priests, their housekoeper and her daughter on the campus of the University of Central America in Stm Salvador, EI Salvador. According to subsequent United Nations investiga­
see WARRIORS/ page 4 


• Morrissey senator Hyan Costantini addressed the idea of objectin~ to the sonate about the logo uf tho University's standing committee on gay and lesbian student needs, which displays a silhouet­ted golden dome with a rainbow striped base. 
Costantini noted that the logo associ­ates the dome with the political symbol for gay pride. creatf~s "anti-homosexual slurs and resentment'' and could he interpreted as Notre Dame's endorse­mcnL of homosexual activity. 

The imnator·s main problem with tlrn slurs, lrn said, carnn from the resentnwnt that he felt it crnales. 
"If this image does creatn these feel­ings," he said, "it socms to me to be hurting the very people the group intends to help." 
A number of senators disagreed with this view of the logo, stating that thc 
see SPACE I page 4 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


Sorry, Seniors 

Sorry seniors, but you've thrown your last fish. The close of this year's home football season signals the end of yet another chap­ter in our undergraduate lives. It seems like only yesterday that I M D h
O 

was cannonballing Mad .an ~ onoug_
Dog 20120 before our A5Slsram V1ewpomt Ed1tor 
loss to ... 
Northwestern? Well, maybe its better for 
some things to escape our minds. 
Yes seniors, it is my turn to lament the 

passing of our last home game, our last 
Thanksgiving Break, and the onset of our 
last bleak South Bend winter. We are plan­
ning out our last spring break trips for our 
last semester at Notre Dame. We have seen 
the leaves fall for the last lime, and blah, 
blah, blah. Enough -if I write like that any 
longer I'll have to puke. For all of you doe­
eyed seniors out there drooling over all the 
cutesy memories of the past four years, 
grow up. You've still got months of irre­
sponsib.le student life left ahead of you. 
Sure, there's been a lot of water under the 
brid~e since we came here as innocent 
freshman all those years ago, but there's a 
lot this place leaves to be desired as well. 
In honor of the bittersweet nature of 

senior year l have composed two separate 
top 10 lists: the top 10 things that we 
seniors will most miss and the top 10 things 
that we will miss the least. I'll save the best 
for last, just to be a nice guy. 
Top 10 things s1miors will miss the least 

about Notre Dame: · 
10. The lovely smell of ethanol when you wake up with a hangover. 
9. The lovely and understanding folks in the Office of Student Affairs. 
8. The friendly folks at a) the dining halls, 

b) the stadium and c) the security at the main and east gates. 
7. The fact that there are fewer than 10 bars that anyone ever goes to. 
6. The sprinklers. 

5. The chance to live in same sex dorms that breed sexual angst and foster the worst gender relations of any school since the Citadel and VML 
4. The fact that everyone gets the J. Crew catalog, not just you. 
3. The inane campus debates that call for the wholesale redefiniton of Catholic thought. 
2. The mysterious annual disappearance of that big yellow ball in the sky from December until April. Can you say "season­al affect disorder." ...and the number one thing that seniors will miss the least about Notre Dame 
1. Paying $30,000 a year and not getting a national title (yeah I'm a little bitter). 
Now, for the Top 10 Things that seniors will miss the most: 
10. Artificial separation from that thing known as "reality." 
9. The rush of adrenaline that accompa­nies the realization that you are going to break parietals. 
8. Two words: Cheeseburger pie. 

7. The chance to drive your rich room­mate's new Range Rover. 
6. Waking up at 8 a.m. on a Saturday morning to get "ready" for a football game. 
5. Free daily copy of the journalistic cor­nerstone, The Observer. 
4. The happening singles scene in the local bars. 
3. The plethora of hip on-campus activi­ties that everyone is involved in. 
2. The big name concert line up that comes to the JACC. ...and, the number one thing that seniors will miss the most after graduating 
1. Notre Dame. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ Tootw's STAFF 
News Scene 
Derek Bercher Michelle Barton Finn Pressly Matthew Turner 

Graphics 
Sports 
Scott Hardy 
Kathleen Lopez 


Viewpoint 
Lab Tech 
Eddie Uull 
Kevin Dalum 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpt during exam :ind vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righrs are reserved. 
Tuesday, November 24, 1998
The Observer• INSIDE 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Investigators announce hospital baby switch accidental 
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va before July 1. The differences in the 
State and University Police investi­babies' weights in the photographs gators announced Friday that they and videos showed that the babies found no evidence of a criminal had been switched. offense in the July 1, 1995 baby The investigation also studied switch at University Hospital. weight and feeding records that sub­
"There currently is no evidence s tanti ate d that a switch had from which to conclude that the occurred. The investigation conclud­switch of these children was an ed that an error occurred with the intentional act," the police report infants' identification bands. stated. "At one level we found no criminal
Normally, an infant receives both The investigation began this sum­bands immediately after birth. activities," said Thomas Massaro, mer after DNA tests revealed that Health Sciences Center chief of staff. 
Investigators also reviewed pho­two babies, Rebecca Chittum and tographs -taken by the Hospital "We have to assume that an innocent 
July 1--of an infant who family mem­

Callie Conlev. had been switched error occurred." 
shortly after tl1eir 1995 births. bers identified as Chittum, wearing Paula Johnson, Chittum's biological Investigators reviewed videotapes neither wrist nor ankle bands. mother, publicly has said she is dis­of Chittum, taken while she was still Investigators compared the photos appointed in the results of the inves• 
and videos from June 30 and July 1

in the birthing room June 30, 1995. tigation and that she plans to file suit The tapes revealed that the infant and concluded that the July 1 photos against the Hospital in the next few showed a heavier Chittum than in
had lost her ankle identification months. 
the June 30 video. Investigators also

band and wore only a loose wrist Johnson could not be reached for 
noticed that Conley appeared heavier

identification band. comment. 
¦ MURRAY STATE UNIVERSITY  ¦ MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY  
Arson suspect maintains innocence  Assembly reprimands two of its own  
MURRAY. Ky.  EAST LANSING, Mich.  
The events of Sept. 18 changed the course of Lana Phelps'  Three bills were passed around the table Thursday  
life. Since then, she has been charged with conspiracy to  night at the Student Assembly meeting of MSU's under­ 
commit first degree arson, w3<s forced to leave school and  graduate student government -­all of which could have  
has been living with the judgmental stares of others. She  determined the fate of two assembly members under  
said the only thing she can do is keep going. "For the first  fire for a variety of reasons. The characters of chairper­ 
time in my life I was having a great time," Phelps said. "I  son Nate Smith-Tyge and vice chairperson for external  
was doing well -in school. I was involved. I wanted to be a  affairs Derron Parks were hotly debated for more than  
lawyer." Phelps admits being at the party where the prank  three hours -­after it was discovered the two had taken  
calls were made, which connected seven suspects with the  ASMSU money to pay for a van they took to Attorney  
Hester fire that killed one student and injured several oth­ General-elect Jennifer Granholm's election party in  
ers. Although she said calls were made, she doesn't under­ Detroit. The meeting ended with passage of a bill to  
stand how she became involved in the investigation. "I was  "formally reprimand" Parks and Smith-Tyge. The other  
just there," she said. "Fifteen other people were there, too. It  two bills, which included a recall and a forced resigna­ 
was like they picked seven people at random." Phelps was  tion of Smith-Tyge, were never introduced. "That's what  
released on a surety, a modification of a bond, which allows  the assembly felt was necessary and that's what they  
a person to guarantee to pay the $100,000 if Phelps does not  did," Smith-Tyge said. Parks could not be reached for  
appear for her court date.  comment.  
¦ PR!NCETON UNIVERSITY  ¦ KENT STATE UNIVERSITY  
President addresses human testing  Forum remembers 1970 shootings  
PRINCETON, NJ  KENT. Ohio  
The National Bioethics Advisory Commission, a presi­ The Governance Chambers in the Kent State Student  
dential committee chaired by University President  Center was full of memories, sadness and hope for the  
Shapiro, met last week in Miami to address the ethical  future Thursday night as a panel of speakers discussed  
issues arising from scientific testing on human subjects.  the tragedy of May 4, 1970. Tiffany Begg, program direc­ 
Shapiro said Thursday the commission is preparing to  tor of the May 4 Task Force, said the forum is held with a  
issue a report to the White House discussing when it is  different theme every year. "One day a year isn't enough  
ethically acceptable to use people with mental disorders  to remember what happened that day," Begg said. "We  
in medical experiments. "In order to carry on ethical tri­ want to let people know how we got here, where it stands  
als, you have to get informed consent, and some people  now, and where we want to be. That is how we have the  
with mental disorders do not have the decision-making  theme 'Past, Present, and Future'." Alan Canfora, who  
capacity to give informed consent," Shapiro said. Though  was shot in the wrist at the May 4 shootings, was one of  
he could not give details of the commission's recommen­ the speakers at the forum. "It was a very dramatic day,"  
dations, Shapiro did say that one of the committee's goals  Canfora said. "It was the culmination of four days of mili­ 
was to ensure that no one is exploited. The Associated  tant protests. l wish we had a film that could give justice  
Press reported Wednesday that the commission recom­ to what really happened here. "They sent in the National  
mended scientists not target mentally ill subjects for tests  Guard and they wanted to attack. They wanted to commit  
that could be administered to others with the ability to  murder, and that was exactly what they did." Can fora  

give consent. 
¦ Sourn BENO WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Tuesday 
i 
Wed*~sday Thursda Friday 
. 
. 

Saturday ,S\ .. 
?t.'v,.__r,,·'--,_,1..,,,\'-")
,., 
d} /41 A:-O.,< a~~ * ~ ··.~ 

~~~-. ,•.,·.,·. ---~ ~ ~ 
S~~e~~ T-~t~~s Rc1fn ~,~~;~~ ~~~-~-~c~ Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cfoudy Via Asooc.ated PmSB Gn;phlc$Net 
said. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

The AccuWeathe~ forecast for noon, Tuesday, Nov. 24. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

FRONTS: 
~ 80$~ 

....-.-.a...&. .......... Ci 1998 AccuWeather, Inc.. COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Prtssuro; ® © CJ High Low Showers Via Anociated Plf)s$  GJ IT:] Rain T~storms  D Flurriea  C] till Snow Ice  () Sunny  ->>9 a"¾fl~ Pt. Cloudy  ·.;<.;\<lf,!1/,!iii' Cloudy  
Atlanta Baltimore Boston Chicago  70 59 56 59  51 43 47 32  Dallas 65 Los Angeles 72 Minneapolis 47 New York 58  50 55 27 47  Palm Beach 82 Philadelphia 60 Phoenix 78 Seallle 49  72 44 54 44  


Tuesday, November 24, 1998 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Oelfu-e~/9 Tk Bef!!!t Rzza,I 8©ru{l \l[l)© © . ©©fk Lfm©~c{)ar~H9  
9  Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 9 10 11~•6:00 & 7:30, 11:00-12:30 the price of yourthe price of yourI 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzaspizza 6 is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-1177 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted  

CLC considers its purpose and history 
Hy FINN PRESSLY should l'rof'nssor O'Hara rnject News Writer onn of its recommendations. In their consideration of ihe 
Campus social spacn, lihrary incnrporation of social space r('novations and council organi-into plans for rcmovation of the 1.alio11 WPl'I~ among tlw topics library, Kirk expressed concern, discussnd al Monday's l!Wl!ling "Wlwn wo satPllite all these 
of tlw Campus 1.ifo Courwil. Tlw council uwmliors dis­ 'WE EITHER GIVE A  social spaces, I think we're going to reduce our  
n1ss1•d  how  STAMP OF APPROVAL  credibility or  
thny percnive  TO WORK THAT'S ALREADY  per co iv e d  
tho  rrnturn  of  need,"  said  
tho  cu:, and  BEING DONE, OR WE'RE DOING  Kirk, adding  
how they hope  PARALLEL WORK•••To ME, IT  lhat the reno­ 
to  1rnssihly  vatcd social  
amt>ml it.  SEEMS UKE A ROYAL WASTE OF  space should  
"Wn  nitlwr  TIME.'  function less  
giv1~ a stamp of'  us a "destina­ 
uµproval  to  tion"  and  
work  that's  FAYJ/HH DAVID ScJ/l,J!JI.EH  more  as  a  
alri•ady  lrnnn  RHCTOI/, ST. Emv,11w's HAU  comfortable,  

done, or wp're doing parnllnl work," said Fatluir David Scheidler. "To me, il sPmns likP. a royal waste of' timn." 
Bill Kirk, assistant vicn presi­dent l'or lfosidmH'.P Life. said thal he foll that all the issues covered hy tho cu; alfocted studm1t lifo on campus, and thus, should be handled by Student Affairs 
"I think anything that affects student affairs is legitimatP and appropriate mattnr for the folks al Student Affairs to deal with," Kirk said. 
Ava l'rnacher, assistant dean of the College of Arts and l.cttf1rs, noted that as a Campus l.ifo Council, all aspects of cam­pus life must bt1 addressed ­not just those that affect stu­dnnL-;. 
"It doesn't belong just to Student Affairs," said Preacher. "It bdongs to thn whole campus. 
''I'm concernud them does seem to b1• a circular structurn," said Prnaclwr, adding that the CLC has no avenue for appeal, modest place 
for students 
to take breaks from studying. 
The council also considered changing the closing time of the library to 4 a.m. 
"You're not providing a 'end' to the day," said SUB manager Ryan Stccz. "If it closes at four, some studcnl<; are going to stay there until four. We're going against the idea of parietals and the end to the day." 
"I think Ryan's comments are important lforl normalization of life in the world," Bill Kirk responded. "It's not normal [to work] until 4 in the morning." 
Not all council members were in agreement, however. April Davis, chairman of the diversity committee, said that she felt that extending library hours would be beneficial, especially for off­campus students. 
"As a·student, you do have people who do need that exten­tion [of hours] to have a safe and healthy environment," said Davis 

Prof explores economic trend 
By MAUREEN SMITHE News Writer 
The forces of neomercantil­ism result in very strong control of the economy by the govern­m en l, explained Carlos Wiesman, a visiting professor from the University of California at San Diego at a lec­ture. 
Wiesman used his lecture to describe the reasons for nation­al acceptance of neomercantil­ism and the consequences that resulted. To explain the impor­tance of those phenomena, Wiesman focused on neomer­cantilist countries like Argentina, Chile and Uruguay where revolutionary situations developed. 
"Neomercantilism developed most fully in Latin American countries following World War 11," he said. "It was also evident during the 1960s in Franco­Spain and Korea." 
Wiesman noted that nations such as Spain ·and Korea encountered unusual circum­stances that allowed them to pull away from the oppressive institution before a major downfall. 
"Spain's and Korea's internal factors, both political and eco­nomic, were decisive," ho said. "The motivating force was strategic -both of the coun­tries were on thn· front line of thn Cold War." 
The Latin American countries did not share such sociopolitical circumstances. Wiosrnan not1~d. 
"Obviously such a switch for tlrn Latin countries, from neomercantilism to capitalism, would havo boon impossible without certain b,melits 1~xtend­ed by western economics," ho said. 
Autocratic capitalistic regimes limited tho nations"economic development. They did, however, strengthon elite groups in the country. 
"Neomercantilism led to infla­tion and constant llucluations in the standard wHll-being of the citizens. Society was actual­ly stagnated," Wit~snrnn noted. "The industrial market was partly closed. If' you wanted to compete, you had to move and set up shop elsewhere." 
Wiesman cited thn economic downfall of Argentina as an example of this stagnation, 
"In the 1960s, Argentina had a GNP growth of' three percent per year. In the 1970s, the growth decreased to .8 percent, and a decade later the GNP of Argentina was at negative 3.3 percent," Wiesman said. 
Neomercantilism and auto­cratic capitalism created simi­lar effects in Chile and Uruguay. Revolution was the only way positive changes could occur, Wiesman said, but a fear of revolution, as in Cuba for example, slowed economic progress. 

Old Kent Bank is part of a $15 billion financial services network that offers an ever-expanding menu of banking and non-bank­ing services, primarily in the Great Lakes region. Our customer-driven organization challenges our employ­ees while providing career opportunities that are rewarding and enjoyable. We are currently seeking: 
BRANCH MANAGEMENT TRAINEES 
Take the initial step to a retail banking career with our extensive training program. You will enhance your skills in branch management, sales and operations. As you become familiar with our retail products and services, as well as commercial lending and trust services, you will assist in the staffing and management of an Old Kent branch, working through the branch system to increase exposure to customers and situations. The program is flexible In both structure and length, pro­viding you with the opportunity to develop your skills at an appropri• ate pace. 
CREDIT ANALYSTS 
New products and emerging technology have created opportunities in our Credit Training Program. It Includes work as a Commercial Loan Analyst, dividing time between independent study, hands-on experi­ence and formal classroom training. You will develop and analyze cred!t information for a variety of loan types, prepare and present credtt reports to loan officers or committees, monitor credit standing of current accounts and participate in customer sales calls, 
Old Kent offers a highly compelillve compensation package, including an attractive salary, comprehensive medical/dental/life insurance, 401(k) retirement plan,/ald vacation and holidays, education assis­tance, banking plans an abundant opportunity for advancement. 
We are ideally located in Grand Rapids, Ml, in the heart of Western Michigan. The city Is exciting and affordable, with a relatively large size (500,000) but the feel of a small community. You're close to the Lake Michigan beaches, the northern Michigan woods and the auracllons of Detroit and Chicago. 
ON CA.\tPl'S INTER\'IEWS AU DAY 
~ 
Call the Career Placement Office To Schedule Your Interview 
OLDl(ENT 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
Tuesday, November 24, 1998
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
page 4 tions, asking him to review the current policy.

Space 
The group passed a resolu­tion calling for a change to the
continued from page 1 
current policy on Sept. 9. They 
have since asked David group shouldn't shy away from Prentkowski, director of Food such a graphic simply because Services, to make the change, it breeds resent­but he ment in certain refused, cit­quarters. ing space 
"It seems to concerns in
'WENEED TO DO 

me it's not the the dining
EVERYTHING WE

picture that's hall. the problem," CAN TO MAKE NOTRE DAME Lyphout is Prentkowski's
said Pangborn STUDENTS MORE MAR­senator Susan superior and Roberts. "It's the KETABLE. THAT IS ALL oversees the 
Department
way people WE'RE DOING.' interpret it, and of Food their views. By Services as 
changing the JUDSON PENTON part of his job logo, you're try­Sr. ED'S HALL SENATOR in business ing to hide [this operations. 
problem]." • The sen­
• In their con-ate met in the tinuing effort to Alumni­allow backpacks in South Senior club because their cus­Dining Hall, the senate unani­tomary meeting sight in mously approved a letter to LaFortune was unavailable. James Lyphout. associate vice Buffalo wings were served. president for business opera-Alcohol was not. 



Tickets 
continued from page 1 
as well," said Callais. 
"This is not fair to students because it contradicts what the security guards says and what information the parking signs give," continued the transportation committee executive coordinator. 
The program began two weeks ago and has already helped several students appeal their tickets to the 
TRAIN 
Train 

'MANY STUDENTS DO 
NOT REALIZE THAT THEY CAN APPEAL THEIR TICKETS.' 
ToDD Cou1Ns 
EXECUTIVE COOIWINATOR TRANSPORTATION COMMI1TEE 
board. Some appeals have been approved, and the stu­
dents' tickets were dismissed with no payment or tine. 
"We hope to accomplish a better way for tickets to be given out fairly," said Callais. 
Cesaro is positive about the program. 
"Student government is committed to putting students first and this program will allow students to be heard by the parking appeals board," the president said. 
Call 1-6900 to run a birthday ad. 





PLASTIKMAN 
Artifakts 

DJ MARK fAlllNA 
MUSHROOM JAZZ, VOL. 2 
Various Artists 



Mlfiii·b.rLAY® 
Your Entertainment Superstore 
Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka (219) 271-0696 



Sale dates: Nov. 22-Dec 5, 1996. Select titles not available on cassette. 
; ; .. 



page 5
Ti.,esday, Novemher 24, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES 
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Iraq rebuffs U.N. demand 
IRAQ 

/\ WPt1k af'tpr it narrowly escaped an 
American military strike, Iraq signaled on 
Sunday in a s1iri11s or dcrianl stttlnmenls 
that il has littln intnnt.ion of' cooperating 
with intnrnational arms inspcclors and is 
still 011 a collision course with tho United 
Stall's. At a rwws confernncn in Baghdad, 
lrnq·s foreign ministnr, Mohamnwd Sae!\d 
lll-Sahlrnf'. rnbulTPd a U.N. dt!IIJUnd !'or more 
donmwnls on his country's arms program. 
IIP rnil.!'rnt1!d a year-old assertion that 
Baghdad had alwacly prodt1cml ovnr 2 mil­
lion pag1is ol' 1i11,s and had 110 morn docu­
1111•11 ls to givP l/.N. inspnclors. In a direct 
dwllPngP lo tlw Unitl'Cl Slaws and Britain, 
whit:h haw wanrnd Iraq that only f'ull coop­
,•ralion would av,irl attack. !!Hi Iraqis lrnvu 
in P!T1:d said th,~y will steµ back only to OcL. 
] I. wtlf'n tlwy nil off all coopnration with 
arms inspc•rtors. All tlw rnstrictions placed 
011 nwnilors in llw months pn•t:Pding that 
linal bn•ak -c1s1wdally thn inability to sec 
rPrlain crucial docunwnts dealing with tile 
history of' prohibitPd wnapons -rnrnain in 
pla1'.t'. 
Israeli students protest 
.llmUSALEM 

Af'lPr a month-old striko for lower tuition 
that has lwPn f'ou gh l tnnaci ously in the 
slri!Pls. on tPlovision and in govnrnment 
ol'lic:Ps, lsnwl's 200,000 college and univer­
sity studm1ts am emerging as a powerful 
voir.n for rnarranging national priorities. 
Drawing support from union Icade.rs, the 
111wmployed and poor towns and neighbor­
hoods. the students arc demanding a shift 
from tho country's traditional preoccupa­
tion with sncurity to greater attm1tion to 
social needs. Universities in Israel am pri­
vatdy run with government support, with 
tuition ranging from about $2,500 to $5,000 
a ynar. 
U.S. crime, murder rates drop 
WASIIINGTON 

The nation's murdnr rate reaclrnd its low­est lev!\I in 30 years as serious crimes reportNI Lo tlrn police in 1997 declined for a sixth consecutive year, the Federal Bureau or Investigation said Sunday. Final F.B.I. figures for 1997 showed a two percent drop from l <J<J6 in the number of majnr crimes n•porttid lo morn than 17,000 police agen­i:i«)S around the nation. The) total of 13.2 million crimes was seven percnnt below the 19t13 ligurP. Crimn dropped in every region: It was down live percent in the Northeast, two percent in the South and West and a percent in the Midwest. Big cities saw a thrnn pnrcent dndinn and smaller cities a percl\lll drop, but crime rose in rural areas by a percent. 

iMrM H11,;i.­
Dow 
AMEX: 
672.00

.!ONES 
.l.01 Nasdaq: 1977.81 
+49.60 
NYSE: 
582.25

9D' 
•I0.17 S&P 500: 1817.49 

Composite
+2.l.94 

Volume: +214.72 772,000,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

rnMP.di~k'. l'lfKlB jH1flJA!::il{a S i.iAi~' i'Rlrl: 
NIT!'!t.An ('0\A!\! Mi('I' +7.n2 -1 2.7~00 4 l .lJ1.75 
MIUfOSO/ l ('01-11' MWr +<I 'JU +S,!\bZ~ 119.1875 
AMf.k ONI.INI. ,\t)l. +!i..b7 +-l.tH2.il 89.t.8); 
l>U.1.tUMl'llllH Ill.I.I tLU ,oj, l.~OUO 65.875 <Tlit:kOUI' INl. t'.f.l 
itt1't +.t\,.lt.\ 49.00 ('OMPi\(J r·t1\.11•UlHt +l.29 .,.,J.~.t?!, H.437> 
INIU.t:llKI' • 1 ..;4 -tl ..'1000 l lJ.5625 
NOVl'l.l INC NOVI +7 06 • I IK1, 18.00 
MCI Wilk! llt:llMM WC(lM +I.RS +111625 58.5625 
,Y.!'t~ 

u,cow~nM, csi:o +2,01} -tl.~6Z.l 7b.187S 
¦ SOUTHEAST ASIA 

ASSOCIATED PRESS during his five-day trip to Japan and major concern" because of its chemi­
South Korea to the old-style regional cal and biological weapons. 
SOUTH KOREA military threat posed by North Korea. Until North Korea "fully commits 
In a green aviator jacket and black­The subject consumed most of his itself to a constructive role on this cap, President Clinton spent Sunday meetings with President Kim Dae­peninsula," he said, "we must remain visiting American troops stationed in jung of South Korea on Saturday and ready." South Korea. He promoted a private, formed the backdrop for his visits Clinton restated his support for sang birthday greetings to a sergeant with the troops Sunday. Kim's policy of engagement with major and described the threats to "It's kind of tense around here," North Korea, though, saying that his hopes for peaceful engagement said John Kelley, a 26-year-old air­there were "some hopeful signs" to with North Korea. man from Wisconsin, describing life justify it. Ile pointed to talks that 
"Lately, signs of danger have inten­on the base. "You know you're only began over the summer between the sified," Clinton said in an address to four minutes away from a missile." American military command in Korea airmen, standing before a gunmetal In his speech, Clinton pointed to and the North Korean military to pre­gray F-16 and A-10 parked nose-to­recent North Korean missile tests, vent problems along the demilita­nose. "So we must remain vigilant. incursions into the south and a mys­rized zone between the south and And thanks to you, we are." terious underground site that may be north. 
For all his eagerness to talk about a nuclear weapons installation as Clinton planned to leave South information-age economic dangers signs of the potential threat. And he Korea early Monday and return to like quicksilver currency flows, compared North Korea to Iraq, say­Washington Monday night, after pay­Clinton has returned again and again ing that North Korea was "also a ing a visit to Guam. 

Pentagon,<recornmends less arms 
Assoc1Arnn Pness heads allowed by the first already agreed to scrap. ally. 
strategic arms reduction The Pentagon has spent Neither President Clinton 
WASHINGTON. treaty, or START [. senior $95 million more over the nor Secretary of' Defense 
Driven by budget (lon• iidmiptstratic,n .oJfi.qJais• past two ye11rs than it William Cohen has made a straints as hmch as.diri:tih" sa:id.' •••·•··. . .. ·.. · would have if START II decision on the rec:ommen­ishing security threais, The United States and had takei1 ·effect. Next year d a. tions, and a senior Pentagon officials are qui-Russia. have signed a sec• it would cost $100 million White House official sttld ctly recommending that ond arms treaty, START IJ, more, and the year after thoy would not do so until the Clinton administration that would .cut their arse• that, $1 billion. llussia's Communist-domi­consider tmilaterttl rMuc• nals e~entnore sharply; to 'fhe Navy, in particular, nated Parllnment com• tions Jn tho . uat,ioti's betw~qn: S,000, at:id,$,$QO. <:ould b.e t'orced to pay plotes its lat~ist delibera­
nuclear arsenal. · warhead$. more than $5 billion tions on STAHT II. which 
Since the United States But for nearly six years, between now and 2003 to was signed in 1993. has already committed Russia's Parliament has refuel nuclear reactors Although Russia's itself to drastic cuts in its refused to approve START and install new missiles on nationalists and nuclear arsenal, the IL four Trident ballistic,mis• Communists have vehe­Pentagon. believes tha.t ,the lle~a.µt:ie of•. ~tlt:iISJ{I.'$ ·sUe submarines that would mently oppost~d th(~ troaty, 
unilateral· rodt1ctit>ns delay, al'id U,S.' legi(>la(ion ··otbo'rwis() be dismantled. the lower house has begun would have no effecfon blockhig unilateral cuts. With this budget crunch debate and could vote as America's ability to deter the Pentagon faces t.he looming, the Pentagon soon as December. a nuclear adversary. prospect of paying h~n-submitted to Congress a Mnny in Congress state 
The recommendations, if dreds of millions of dollars . highly classified report last that nuclear funds could adopted, would reduce the to maintain and 
sQq:qJo AprUtbat outlined nine be allocated to areas of American arsenal , W , r~buHd)1uc}ea.r "· prt)p.osaJs for reducing the social m}ed such as educa­the 6;000 nuclear •that t)!fl"l.Jnii~d, strategic·.arsen~l . unilater-tion. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Tuesday, November 24, 1998 
¦ INDONESIA 
McDougal acquitted of embezzlement 
As50Ciated Press .. · ing l'rot" ,,. JW 0 Associated Press 
year sentence in a Whitewater,
hacked> ,, ···.• · · · said 
related loan fraud case. She
JAKARTA Christia ·e Am . 
SANTA MONICA, CA was released because of a
Rina T&.ufa,n peers ;f(l,aj1~tij .·•. ~rn ;1 ch hr h th te I tes that bar . A. bon _g~r;o_l Whitewater figure Susan painful back condition. 
y
t 0Ug ·. eS 0 ga, • ; kt ,/;Jni;:mS_;t,d•·c•,··:i. ·w: ·•0·1•1· McDougal was acquitted Also convicted were her late
ricadf! h1rr store inJakad:rs Monday of embezzling from ex,Jrnsband James McDougal
Chinatown, where mohs'.fan The violence triggered riotihg searc 
conductor Zubin Mehta and his and former Arkansas Gov. Jimwild. burned churches and and attacks on other Christian crowds watched. 
wife "" a case she said was Guy Tucker. She still faces
businesses and kill<:d at lea.<;t 14 churches, aRoman Cathollc "This will fractur trumped up to pressure her to pn;sccution iu Arkansas for herpeople. school and Chinese businesses · hetw ous 
testify against President
Many fear-the violen.ce cqgld . intM-., . 9fl,e of:Pl-e,'.,ItJO.~( . · .. ' oto, refusal to testify in the 
Clinton. . Whitewater case.
unleash .deep~seated,etl:µllc,Ai-il ·. violent .··.·••···.....· .·.. · '$capital. , ork~ "Everything that's happened The California case played
religious dtvisions that,h_~vt • Standing arrii · the · tlf 
to me in receni years has been out as a lfollywood,style sub­been heightened by Indonesm,s his gutt<.~4 ifticl still•s . ng 
about Bill Clinton," Ms. 
plot of the scandal in
worst economic crisis and politi-church, . Pastor Johannes-· EthnieJ:binese mak McDougal exulted after the jury Washington, even though the
cal turmoil in 30 years. · Unandi said he was forced to percent gt)µdonesia 
acquitted her on all nine jurors were warned by the
"I heard that they a.renots{it, flee when :the mob. shuck. tion of 2.Qi-million. 
counts, includ, 

judge not to
isfied yet,'' the 38~yea,f"'t»d LuckUv. · attackgt · play •·.· eut ing forgery and consider herChinese irtimigr~n-t · ~~}i;l . bct~Qe.. . °)•i~if ~c);>!;\(1 J~i, 
failure to pay Whitewater
Monday. "If they come• bacik/1 011ly a·han ople invite me 
state income 

involvement or
will be here too. If they burn inside.. ·· ··. . . . . often spiU~d~nt6vtole 'PEOPLE SAY TO ME,
taxes. The jury 

any possible
next door;i will be dead." · · "Theyhit n1e \vith tl;:teir. µsts "The Chh;lese minor 'ARE YOU SCARED OF
dP.liberated for

Next door ls a gambling house and with a piece of wood as l ·always targeted during t ulterior 
parts of four KEN STARR?' HE'D BEITER motives on theshe says has the same owner as ran outThey had knives btit l unrest.''<~i:!19 Dede Ooto 
prosecution's
one th·at wa.s the first t.:trget_of ran down 1.i"street,'.' tiqa,°fi.M anthr?pOlQgy and lin days. BE SCARED OF ME BECAUSE
"They want part.

Sundav's e.thnic andrel1.·-oiou.··.•·•·.s said" .... •·....·..•.••·· .professpr}' · .at ·· At
.. .··.·.·.··.·.·•...·· 
me to say I'M ON MY WAY BACK.' 
Outside the
violence. Muslim mobs set~tlte About''90ip~rc~µ(Jrf::jne 'Oriiyers~\f.·.·.• lri .. Sh 
things against jury's pres,
to the building and a neighbor~ parishionefs•are mtnnbehrof · lndonesla:ssecond~larg . , .· 
Bill and Hillary 

once, defense Clinton. SUSAN MCDOUGAL attorney Mark People say to 
Geragos said me, 'Are you 
¦ BELGIUM 
Starr had 
scarfld of Ken promised to 
Starr?' He'd 

make thci
E.U. lifts export ban on U.K. beef 
better be scared of me because 
embezzlement charges go awayI'm on my way back." if Ms. McDougal would testify.
Associated Press The move to ease the ban exports to begin early next 
Ms. McDougal, 44, was When she refused, he alleged,was boosted early this month year. No more ministerial-level 
accused of stealing $50,000 Starr "propped up" the case
BHUSSELS when eight out of 15 veterinary votes on the issue are required. 
from Mehta and his wife, 
and urged prosecutors to move
The European Union voted experts endorsed the plan to Monday's decision will be 
Nancy, when she worked as on the defendant. 
Monday to lift a worldwide resume exports. . immediately followed by a cam­bookkeeper and personal assis, "Of course it's related toexport ban on most British "The question now is how to paign to put British beef back tant to Mrs. Mehta from 1989 Whitewater," Geragos saidbeef, a milestone in the "mad get back on the world mar, on the plates of consumers to 1992. She could have gotten after the verdict. "You think ifcow" dispute that has pitted kets," said Brown, predicting throughout the 15-nation EU. 
up to four years in prison. her name was Susan McDonaldBritain against its European an uphill struggle to restore the "It will still be some months The case took five years to they would try this case?"
allies for nearly three years. reputation of British beef. before the first shipments of get to trial. By that time, Ms. Starr's office said in a state,"The beef ban is lifted," said Monday's decision "will tend beef actually resume and there McDougal had become famous, 
ment that the California
British Farm Minister Nick to boost the confidence of the is much work to be done to re, hailed by many as a hero for 
charges were brought bef'orn
Brown. "The beef is safe to British consumer and presum, establish markets," said Ben 
her steadfast refusal to testify the appointment of any
eat." ably other consumers through, Gill, president of Britain's against her friend Clinton Whitewater independent coun,Ten of the 15 European out the EU and our beef trade National Farmers Union. 
before the Whitewater grand sel and were unrelated.
Union agricultural ministers and our beef producers will get Brown downplayed the con, jury. It was a decision that cost
meeting here voted to end the back to normal," Dr. John turned German opposition. Juror Kathleen Spain, 71. 
her 18 months in jail for con, said at a news conference that
ban on deboned beef, with Mann, superintendent of "Germany was not opposed 
tempt. the jury followed instructionsGermany the lone holdout. Britain's largest meat market, to lifting the beef ban. It was In addition, Ms. McDougal and "washed Whitewater out ofFrance, Spain, Austria and Smithfields. said in London. opposed to lifting it now," said served 3 1/2 months of a two, our minds." 
Weather the Holidays ••• Start Your '99 Christmas Oub Now! 
Avoid financial storms during the holidays by opening a Christmas Club Account today. 
This account features: 
. 
COMPETITIVE DIVIDENDS 

. 
NO MONTHLY SERVICE CHARGES 

. 
SAVE THRU PAYROLL DEDUCTION 


NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Qhristmas Qlub 
I 

Campus 
Locations-

DOUGLAS ROAD OFFICE SAINT MARY'S CAMPUS 
(The Center Building) 
Plus our ATM at the Campus Bookstore 
p4_ NOTRE DAME ,-~.-c__u_A-1
W.1 FEDERAL CREDIT UNION . -~--. 
For People. Not For Profit. Independent orthe un1vers11y Luxembourg abstained. 
British beef exports were barred in March 1996 after Britain announced a possible link between "mad cow" dis, ease in British cattle and a fatal brain ailment in humans called Creutzfeldt,Jakob dis­ease. 
The ban has cost the indus, try in Britain more than $3.3 billion and undermined confi, dence in beef throughout Europe. 
The EU's executive Brown. Commission now will send inspectors to Britain for a final examination of safety stan, dards, opening the way for 
SPRING BREAK'99 
HOURS & HOURS OF FRI::E HRINKS! Earn 2 FREE Trips & $$$$$! C~nc11n,Jamairn, Aorid:i, Barbado,;, Uahama, Lo\lfsl Prkt~/llcsl Meal l'lan l-800-.,26-7710 / \I l•ws11n.pla,htours.com 
Please join us for a 
Claretian Vocation Retreat 
December 11-14, 1998 • Chicago 
Who should attend the retreat? Any college­age and older men interested in seriously reflecting on service in the church as a Claretian priest or brother. Join us to explore the challenges and rewards of leadership in a missionary community that is striving to respond to the needs of the day. 

Contact: 
Fr Carl Quebedeaux. CMF
The Claretians 

(312) 236-7B46
Eastern Province, U.SA Frcarl@claret.org
Priests. brothers. and laypeople workm9 toqethllr for aju5t world. www.claret.org 


----------========================================-~-~-~-~-=-=-=-=---=·----------------­
'I i.1esday, Novemoer 24, 1998 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 

¦ MIDDLE EAST 





Gaza Strip celebrates opening of international airport 

Project Warmth and the University of Notre Dame want to help you, once agam, share the Notre Dame warmth and spmt 
When you mm in your coat or jacket October 26, 1998 through December 4, J998 at the Center for Social Concerns, the Hammes Bookstore or other promi­nently displayed locations around campus, PROJECT WARMTH® and The Universitr of Notre Dame will donate it to someone who can really use it this winter. Jn return, you will receive a certificate good for 25% off a new GEAR for Sports~ jacket at rhe Hammes Book~rore. 
SHARE mE WARMTH AJ\'D 11iE Sl'/RJT OF NOTRE DAME! 
c:or.urcrttw .lnn· <.rP11ft1r fi,r .5ncit,I (.(mcerns • flnmmt'J Rm»tfrore • StuMnt Cr,r.:in·nment •St. ,Hicf?ap/:<: f,,tu,udry• -Mttin and Campus n,st,1'hurtm, l'entt'r • uiAir/1111<• l>tjurmallv,i Jxsk • Altmmi As.mc/alivr, --123 Gru,·e H/lll • till RcsIde1m: f/11/1.1 • 2/M COBA • :.!57 fifIJ>alHt:k 11,ifl • IUO Jiorld Hall • 103 IA1v Sch0<>I • 
1.17 o· Sl.>tiJI • 2112 1/urk:y 
GEAR 
DAIIANIEII. Ga:rn Strip 

After y,iars (If negoti1tlions. J'uml-raising and hope, the Palestinian poople ani moving 0111• swp closl'r lo nalio11hood wiLh Lhn opening of Gazn IntPrnnl.ional Airport. 
"It's n glorious fncling or iudepundtrncn, a fooling that W(! 11rc open to the world." said Fawzi Tabil, a Palestinian watching wllilo workers painl­tHl whitn lines Monday on the tarmac in il11i southern Gaza Strip, close to thn 1,:gyptian bordnr. 
l'alt>stinian l1iadnr Yassnr Arafat was expHclNI to grnet the f'irsl arrival 011 Tunsday morning. a plane carrying ){OVP r11 nm n t of'fici al s fr om Cairo. 
At hn!f-hour intervals, six morn festive flights wern to arrivn from places including 
Challenge Yourself? 
Our VOl,UNTEER PROGRAM needs men and women to s, imiHes in New York City or the Boston area. · •Use your skiJ!s and talents while developing new 
•Community living offers opportunity for personalgfij 
•Housing, board, and a liveable stipend aU included 
Little Sisters of the Assumption .Contact: Volunteer Coordinator 214 E.30th St. 

New York, NY 10016 
(212) 889-4310 email: littlesrs@aol.com website: www.littlesisters.org 
Give away your coat.. and SHARE nrn WARMIH.
WARMTH 
CENTEII FOIi SOCIAL CONCEIINII 
Morocco and Spain. The had to drive to Egypt, wlrnre but the Israeli monitors will European Union, which donat­his plane was kept, and fly on operate discretely, behind ed $38 million for equipment from there. one-way mirrors, as they do and training, is sending its Thfl airport opening had now at two other crossings Mideast envoy in a special been held up for two years into autonomous Palestinian 
plami. 

Palestine Airlines, with a small 11eet that includes one Boeing 727, will begin direct 
flights to Jo rd an,
Egypt and Morocco next week. Civil avia­tion contracts with other carriers arc in the works and expanded service plans include weekly flights to Cyprus and Japan. 
On Wednesday. Arafat will because of disputes between f'ly on his pn~sidential plane ~srael and Arafat's for the first time out of his autonomous government over homeland to Faris io meet Israel's security role. with French President Jacques Israel will have a say over Chirac. Until now. Arafat has who and what enters Gaza, 
PRC,JECT 
areas. Israel will 
not interfere with 
departures from tlrn
,Now WE WILL BE ABLE To TRAVEL WITH­
airport. 

OUT THE ISRAELI PROCEDURES THAT WE The airport pro­tocol was signed
USUALLY MUST GO THROUGH.' 
last week, as part of the Wye River peace 
KHALEV SALMb.11 deal signed last month by Israel and Ml!SL!M PILGRIM the Palestinians. 
Only hours before 
the first flights were 
to arrive, the con­
trol tower was still without controls, the check-in counter had no computers and the runway was missing llood lights for night landings. 
Palestinian officials said most for the equipment was being held up at the Israeli shipping port of Ashdod. The opening of their own seaport is next on the Palestinian wish list and was promised under the Wye agreement. 
Other gear such as X-ray machines and electro-magnet­ic equipment werP being inspected for safety standards by Israel, said Torner Degani, a spokesman for the Israeli military government in Gaza. 
Portable control equipment in a van was to guide Tuesday's flights to a sal'n landing. Tim passengers wern to be chocked in at the Hafah border crossing, a 10-minutn bus ride away. Until the flood­lights arrive. there will b11 no night flights. 
Despite its shortcomings. 

many Palestinians consider the airport a big stfip toward independence. For those living in the small. overcrowded Gaza Strip, which is ringod by the Mediterranean on one sido and by barbed wire on the other three, it may help ease the ever-present feeling of being trapped. 
In tho past. Palestinians wanting to fly abroad needed permission to enter lsraol and lly out or the international air­po rt near Tel Aviv. Israel rarely granted pnrmission, however, forcing Palestinians to travel through Israeli-con­trolled land routes to Egypt or Jordan to catch flights. 
"Now we will be able to travel without the Israeli pro­cedures that we usually must go through," said Khaled Salmeh, adding that he plans to fly next month to Saudi Arabia for a pilgrimag!l to Mecca. Islam's holiest site. 
West Bank Palnstinians, separated from Gaza by Jsraol, will stilt nned lsranli pennis­sion lo travel to Orn c;aza air­port. 
Dnsigned in an Oriental style with nlahoratc lites imported l'rom Morocco, the airport has ono passengnr tnr­rnina!. a VIP lounge and a lwo­mi!e-long runway. A 4-foot-ta!I poster ol' Aral'at hangs l'rom the control townr wall. 
For thn t.imn lining, !sraPlis will not lw permilttid to usn tlrn airport lwcausn of sentrity conl'.P rns. II ownvn r. 111 any bnlieve Gaza lntPrnational wi!l nventually rival BPn Gurion International Airport rwar TP! Aviv. 







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 -----------------------­
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE; P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-747! SAINT M11Ry's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR•IN-CffIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Bri:in Rcimhaler Kyle Carlin 
As.~1snNT MANAGING EDITOR Htarher MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ........................Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER........................Bryan Lutz VIEWPOINT EDITOR ..................Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brert Huelat SroRrs EDITOR ...................... Ka<hlcen Lopct SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS ............................Sarah Dylag CoNTROLUR.....................................Dave Rogcro 
Kristi Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Bmiow SAINT MARV'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pcre Cileila 
PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Daium 
The Observer is lhc independent nC"W¥spapc-r published by chc studcnns of the Univc['Sicy ofNorre Dame du Lac and Saini Mary's Colleg,c.-. lt docs not necessarily reflect the-policies ofthe administration of either insrirurion. The news is reported aJ accurately ~nd objeccively as possible. Unsignrd editorials rcprc:senr che opinion ofrhe majoriry of th<" Ediror-in-Chlef. Managing Editor, Assist.am Managing Editor and <lepanmcnr editor.;. Commentaries. lc-tters .nd columns prt'S"enf che views ofthe authors, and not ncccss.arily rhose: of·Inc Observer. Viewpoim .space is availablt: ,o a.Ii members of the Nom:-f).1mc/Saim Mary's community anJ to all readers. ·nu~ free expression of varying opinions through lc-mn is enco1.Jraged. 
Contacting The Observer Ediror-in-Chicf 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Adveriising 63 l -6900/8840 Ncws/l'horo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scen./Samr Ma,y·s 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoinr. l@nd.edu Day Ed,ror/Vicwpoinr 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.eJu Office Manager/General lnformation 631-7471 News E-Mail obscrver.obsnews. l@nd.edu 

¦ THE PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Reflections on Crossing the Line 
The 11 of us from Notre Dame and Saint Mary's who traveled to the School of the Americas protest this weekend were part of an incredible event. We went to honor the lives of those people of Latin America who were killed by graduates trained by the taxpayer-funded SOA in the name of democracy. 
There was some risk involved in us going to Ft. Benning this weekend. Although first-time offenders have not been jailed or fined in the past, they have been cited for trespassing and banned from the base for five years. Those that broke this ban in past years were fined and put in jail for six months. These sec­ond timers knew that to let evil run free without actively working to stop it gives their tacit support to that evil. 
Those of us from ND/SMC understood that there could be serious consequences to our act of civil disobedience. But we went anyway. Our consciences shouted out to us: they told us that we had the chance to make a statement to this nation that we would not allow our brothers and sisters in the Americas to be tortured, raped, maimed and murdered with our support. 
Last year the protest attracted 601 line­crossers, but this year there were over 2300 from all stations oflife. This broad movement is calling for the U.S. to adapt a truly democracy-friendly policy toward the people of the Americas. Closing the SOA is a first step -important symboli­cally and logistically -in achieving that end. 
This weekend we became one voice, one conscience with those in the long his­tory ofnon-violent civil disobedience who transformed many of the oppressive poli­cies of this nation. We linked arms and processed in rows of four. As we crossed the line marking Fort Benning's bound­ary, we carried white crosses that bore the name and nation of a human being killed by graduates of the SOA. As we marched, the names of some of the vic­tims of SOA graduates were chanted, fol­lowed by the response in Spanish, "Presente," chanted bv all 7,000 in alten-· dance. Through that s·olemn, moving experience, we came to understand the true connection that every person on this earth shares with one another, and all those who have come before us. I made the conscious effort to remember the name on my cross: Angelina Ramirez of Guatemala. As I marched. with the chant of "Presente" very deliberate and rhyth­mic, I tried to imagine the life of Angelina. I imagine that she lived in poverty all of her life. She probably never traveled far from her town. and was very close with her family. I couldn't imagine how or why she was killed -my mind was not able to 
relive that tragedy after imagining the tragedy that was her life. 

About a half mile down the road enter­ing the base, we had our crosses confis­cated and were told to wait for buses that would take us off the base to a processing center where we would be charged with trespassing on federal property. Much to our surprise, the military did not expect so many protesters, and decided not to charge us with a crime. [nstead, they took us to a park 1.2 miles from where we started our funeral procession, gave us a paper saying that we were barred from entering Fort Benning property until after midnight, and told to walk back to those waiting for us in vigil. And we did walk back, proudly and defiantly, through the streets of Columbus, Georgia. 
After this trip, I know that I am not going to able to sit by and watch injustices in the world, especially those committed in the name of ideals and values that I cherish so strongly, being twisted and degraded with outcomes of destruction and bloodshed. We are back now on the secure, isolated campuses of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, but our hearts, minds and consciences are attune to the great shared-spirit of our humanity in the world. We cannot turn back. 
Paul Ranogajec 
First Year, Morrissey Manor 
The most impressive aspects about the 
whole deal were the people and the power. The mixture of people was amaz­ing. From the clergy to parents and chil­dren to college students, everyone went to Georgia with their own voice raised against the SOA. When everyone's voice joined together it was overwhelming. The power that people have when united can do anything. This weekend it clogged up the SOA's response to the civil disobedi­ence and, hopefully very soon, this power will overwhelm Congress and the SOA will 
be closed forever. The energy, the enthu­siasm, the unity and the power of the gathering far surpassed anything that I have experienced so far in my life. 
Megan Sheehan 
Fist Year, Farley Hall 

Awesome. Drove 13 hours. Spent hours circulating among the thousands finding old friends and meeting new. Heard speeches and an Indigo Girl play. Carried a white cross. Cried. Crossed the line with a blind 70-year-old man. Walked down a lovely road on to a deadly military base. Rolled-down the bus ½indows and sang boisterously for peace and justice. Not arrested we returned to the protest site parade-style to the throng of a cheering crowd. We shall return (if necessary). Close the SOA! And a warning to all other institutions and advocates of oppression both off-campus and on. You cannot hide behind your false rhetoric about democ­racy, justice, Catholic Teaching and University ML<,sion. We outnumber you, too. Ya Basta/ Enough! 
Aaron Kreider 
Sociology Grad. Smdem 
O'Hare/Grace Aparrmenrs 

P.S.: for more information check the 
SOA Watch website at 
httpJlwww.soaw.org. 
Augustin Ramirez. I've thought a lot about him since Sunday morning. I don't know what he loo1'ed like, how old he was, or anything about him, except that he was from Guatemala and he was mur­dered by a graduate of the School of the 
¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 

Americas. Ilis was the name on the cross that I carried as I crossed the line onto the base at Ft. Benning Sunday afternoon. Nearly everyone carried a cross or a pic­ture, and as all 3,219 ofus crossed the line in groups of 4, names were read out. All people that arc no longer living because of this school. I was in Guatemala once, for just a day, the hammock in my room reminds me of this. I wonder if Augustin has been to Tikal, or has seen 
.the same things I haw~ in Guatemala City. I wonder ifAngelina was his sister. They were just two of the 200,000 Mayan Indians in Guatemala that were systemat­ically slaughtered by Hector Gramajo, a graduate of the school. (t's About Killing Indians, as a sign at the vigil read. We now export to Central and South America the same kind of violence that resulted in the genocide of our own native tribes in this country some years ago. 
How can we let this continue? We are all responsible for one another's sins, we all play a part in letting our brothers and sisters stumble. Augustin Hamirez has become my cross to bear. I am responsi­ble for his death, and not simply because my taxes have paid to train those that ordered his death. 
What was beautiful about the vigil was the thousands that were there to take responsibility, to bear crosses, to bear witness. By admitting to our guilt in these horrors, and through reparation and repentance, we are able to reform our lives. 
Now the thousands of us have returned home so that we might share this respon­sibility with others and claim our part in these atrocities so that together we might end them, and again act justly, love ten­derly and walk humbly with our God. 
Sheila McCarthy Sophomore, Pasquerilla West 
The Progressive Student Alliance col­umn runs every Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe authors and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
,Thedifference between 
fame and success? 
Madonna is fame; Mother 
Teresa, success.' 
-Erma Bombeck 
____,___...._131___p-:i-r....••---------...----cw-.._111111~--~111&9'!.0S_l:9____,_.,.,,.._w..•--°'----,--... 


VIEWPOINT 

Tuesday, November 24, 1998----------------­
¦ NOT PEACE BUT THE SWORD 
The Non-
Discrimination Hoax 
Thu rnsigualion of Fr. David Garrick, C.S.C., from thti facultv of the University of Notrn Dame last spring rninvigorated llrn sodomy debate, thti controversy owr whether the Univcrsily should alter ils policies to include "sexual ori1mtation" as a spe­cialized class deserving of' legal pro-Loction. At tho timn of his resignation, Fr. Garrick said that Im was a celibatn priest that had a "gay" orinntation. "(;ay" activists laudml Fr. Garrick as 

an example of a ===============:=:: cation of Catholic 
homosexual doctrine on issues against whom Urn of human dignity.
s Univr)rsity dis-ean I believe that he criminat,id, ov1rn misunderstands though he led a the organic and life conforming to complimentary


V,·nCk 
Llw moral stan­dards or tht~ Magisterium. 
Thn Notre l)amu community was originally told that tlw proposed change in the dis­crimination policy would have no advcrsP flffncts on tlw upholding of rcasonahh1 standards of sexual morality. lndoml, it was claimed that protection was sought only for per­sons of the "gay" orientalion, not thosn who 1mgaged in acts of deviancy (nven though the catechism terms hornosexualitv an bo harmful to treat acts of sexual impurity with anything but scrutiny, prayer and perhaps psydmlogical 
treatment. 
Mr. Byrne argues that "concern for justice and the essential dignity of man always trump a commitment to strict orthodoxy in the sort of commu­nity I am describing." This implies that them can be a conflict between the Church's promulgation of teach­ing on sexual morality and the appli­
naLUre of the Catechism. There is only one moral­ity -one cannot 

simply pick and choose which parts he might want to practice. The prohi­bilion on sexual immorality can never conflict with tho Christian obligation lo promote respect for human dignity, since a fundamental part of"human dignity is chastity. 
It is through sexual impurity that 

men become more akin to animals, as they throw off the dictates of their con­science to submit to 
"objective dis~>r- INDEED, IT WAS CLAIMED  satanic lust. One  
dnr"J.  THAT PROTECTION WAS  cannot be dignified  
Yet the toll(~ of t1w'cfob11tP has  ·•·SOUGHT ONLY FOR PERSONS  or sanctified if one has the blight ofsex­ 
gradually shiflcd. In  OF THE "GAY" ORIENTATION,  ual immorality on his  
last Tuesday's Observer, Mr.  NOT THOSE WHO ENGAGED  soul. This is the roa­son that the Church  
Timuthy Hyrne, a  IN ACTS OF DEVIANCY.  provides for sacra- 

philosophy gradu­atn student. articu­latPd a vision of Catholicism that dis­plmsud with the church's teachings on s1ixual morality (as well as many otlwr things}. lln claims that "the pro-scripLion of sodomy" is a "peripheral doctrine." 
I hl'liPVtl that Mr. Byrne's asser­lions. though dclivcrncl with sincerity, am flawcd. Bulin a larger stmse, lhcy am rn!lect.ive or the way the debate on sodomy has morplwd from a dis­cussion about "tol1m111ce l'or others" inlo an outright dmnand l'or a bona tidc Pndorsc,mrnt of deviant, wicked acts. 
Wlwrcas Mr. Byrne argues that tbe Church"s stance on sexual immorality can bn understood as a peripheral doctrine. I assert that living chastity, at'cordfog to one's statn of lifo, is absolutdy essential to the salvation of tile human suul. The essential dignity of the human person is indeed a ccn­tral doctrirrn of Catholicism. and the Church responds that it is prncisely for this rrason that snxua.1 duviancy can nnver be tolcrnlcd. 
Thn Clrnrch undm·stancls sexual deviancy to lw ono of' Lh<' core sins rorulnnming a soul to damnation. lnd1\nd. tradilionnl Church rlocumonts list sodomy as a sin "'crying out to lwavun for w111geauce." The holy men and wonrnn or lhe Old Testament uml1irstood sodomy to be an abomi­nntion, and promotnd sev«ml punish­nwnts !'or transgrnssors. 
Thll µrohilJition on soxua[ immorali­ty. not just sodomy-but fornication as well as adultnry -havn been not only mattnrs ol' morality. but of crimi­nal law as wull. Twunty states in this country !Jave outlawed homos1lxual acts; IJw suprmnci court upheld {;norgia's soclorny laws in tlrn decision Bo111ers v. J!ardwick l 1985). Society, t.lw church, and (;od lrnvu long rccog­ni,Td t.lw evil ol" sexual immorality nncl havo plac~d appropriat11 restric­tions on it. For this reason, it would mental confession. 
All people have their challenges. lusts and temptations. The challenge is not so much to angrily conderpn the sexually immoral, but to embrace them in a pastoral fashion, explaining to them the error of their ways and the path to personal sanctification. At its heart, sexual immorality is simply the mis­application of God's gift of sexuality. Impurity itself is rooted in a certain introversion. It is this introversion, as wcll as the misapplication of the sexu­al being that can be not only unhealthy in a physical sense, but ter­minal in a spiritual sense. 
Tho Church understands that the 11roper use of the gift of sexuality is a contra! part of a healthy person; it also would argue that the develop­mnnt of a healthy sexual attitude is a fundamental part of adolescence. Hecause this is so much a part of the Christian lifestyle, there can be no contradiction between the norms of s1ixual purity and a respect for one's follow man. 
Indeed, this entire debate is about the protection of our Catholic identity. Mr. Byrno and others have implicitly admitted as much. Under no circum­stances can we allow for the changing of' our non-discrimination clause to include "sexual orientation," for the movHmflnt to alter it represents a frontal assault on the heart of the Catholic Church. I urgo all students, alumni, l'rionds and eonstituonts to re!lecl (111 this matter and write to Fallwr Malloy: ask him to voto tho non-discrimination clause amend­mm1t, and in so doing proltlct the Catholic Character of Notrn Dame. 
Sean Vinck is a sophomore PLS major. Ills column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are lhose oflhe author and rwt neces· sarily those ofThe Observer. 
-----------------------page 9 
¦ THE BELLE OF SAINT Mtrnv's 
Application for Guest Appearance on "The Jerry Springer Show" 
By accepting an invitation to appear on "The Jerry Springer Show," please be advised that you are expected to adhere to the following format in order to main­tain the high quality of our program: 
1) While discussing the intimate details or your grotesque life in a barrage of obscenity-laden and badly spoken English, at random intervals charge at one or more of the other guests and attempt to kick the crap out of him/her. We have found this to be a highly effec­tive communication technique. 
2) Halfway through your guest appear­ance, our studio security team will re­seat you on the stage so that you are approximately eight yards away from your fellow guests. Now is a good time to reiterate your main discussion point by removing various articles of clothing. 
3) Noted former prostitute client Jerry Springer will then deign to solve every­one's problem via a brief but brilliant homily in which he damns each guest to hell. 
Please answer the following questions if you wish to join the dysfunctional Springer Show family. 
Herc on "Jerry Springer," we like to explore a wide variety of issues. Examine the following exhaustive list of typical show topics and circle the one that most closely matches the deeply personal and repugnant problem you wish to share with the entire Western Hemisphere: 
"I Am a Grossly Overwicght, Grammatically Challenged Woman Fighting With an Equally Grammatically­Challenged Slut Over a Vulgar, Grossly Overweight, Grammatically-Challenged Man." 
In what type of trailer home do you live'? 
Single 
Double-wine 
Duplex 
Please list any and all body parts you are willing to fully expose to our studio audience:________ 
Number of illegitimatn children you have generated: 
Under eight 
Eight or more 
Not sure 
Which gender do you prefer to be pre­sented to our studio audience as?: 
Male 
Fmnale 
Both 
Not sure 
I low far can you throw a standard liv­ing-room chair such as the kind we use in our studio'! ______ 
In the middle of your guest appearance, we will present to your significant other the person with whom you are having an extra-relationship affair, thus signaling the opening of the Chair-Hurling Segment or the show. What is the nature of this person's relationship to your significant other? 
Family member 
Best friend 
Pimp 

Member of the opposite sex 
In order to assist our censors, please circle the profanity you plan to most often scream at the other guests: 
*%$# 
@_"}% 
$!'!& 

I prefer unspoken but obscene hand gestures. 
Are you fully confident that Jerry's sanctimonious 30-second "Final Thought" will heal the oozing psychological wounds of your spiritually vacant, desperately screwed-up life'?: YIN 
llow often do you bathe'? Once a week Once a month Once every turn of tho century Not sure 
What is your occupation? You may cir­cle more than one whom applicable. 
Crack dealer 
Strippnr 

Professional welfare accumulator 
Pimp 
Adult bookstore clerk 
Whore 

Employcn in dirt and/or groase­intensive lield 
Thank you for your interest in "The Jerry Springor Show.'' If our producers identify you as sufficiently degenerate to appoar as a guest, we will contact you via your trailer park managor. Please wear tight, unattractive clothing to tht1 taping if snlectnd. 
Mary /Jeth Ellis is a senior at .\"aint Mary's College m<Jjoring in linglish writ­ing and political science with a minor in 
U.S. history. lier Tip '() the /Jay: In the event that your significant other announces, "/Jorzey, I hane .wmwthing to tell you, but I can't tell you what it is until we appear on 'Springe r. "' you should run, not walk. out of t.lw relation­ship. Take care ofyourselues ... and each other. 
The views expressed in t.his column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer.
. . .. .
~ 

t 

u a:us=:w 
C s 

O
THE 
page 10 ------------------BSERVER Tuesday, November 24, 1998 




When a lull in conve:rsation comes over the Thanksgiving dinner table, stun your I amity and friends with a fun Iact about ... what. else but Turkey! 
What's ia the name? 
The scientific name for turkey is Meleagris gallopavo (mel-e-AY-gris gal-low-PAY-voe) from Latin gallus 
(meaning cock) and pavo (meaning chickenlike). Meleagris is the Roman name for guineafowl explaining the early confusion of the turkey with guineafowl. 
Female turkeys are called hens, male turkeys are toms and baby turkeys are called poults. 
One explanation of the origin of the nickname "turkey" is the wild turkey's call which sounds like "turk-turk-turk." Another likely explanation is that in the 16th century, merchants trading along the seaboards of the Mediterranean were known as Turkes. They probably included the birds in their merchandise and the birds became known as turkey fowls. 
., Another theory is that Columbus thought not only that the New World was con­nected to India, but also that turkeys were really peacocks. Thus he named the birds "Tuka" which is peacock in the Tamil language of India. 

f'aming the f'utkey 
The domestic turkey is descended from wild turkeys originally native to Southern Ontario, parts of the U.S. and Mexico. The turkey was tamed by the American Indian cul­tures in Mexico and transported from Mexico to Europe by Spanish conquistadors early in the 16th century. 
By 1524, the turkey had reached England, and by 1558, the turkey was popular at banquets in England and throughout Europe. When English settlers came to North America, they brought domesticated turkeys back with them. They used the turkeys as breeding stock with native wild turkeys. 

Turkeys Ii Indians 
Fossil evidence shows that turkeys roamed the Americas 1 O million years ago. 
The American Indians hunted wild turkey for its sweet, juicy meat as early as 1000 AD. Turkey feathers were used to stabilize arrows and adorn ceremonial dress, and the spurs on the legs of wild torn turkeys were used as projec­tiles on arrowheads. 





C 
s
en@. 
Tuc:~Jay, November 24, 1998-------------OBSERVERTHE ----------------page 11 

'l'he First 'l'urkey Day 
The first formal Thanksgiving by Europeans in the Americas was in 1578 when the English navigator, Martin Frobisher, held a formal ceremony in Newfoundland to give thanks for surviving the long journey. 
The pilgrims who settled in Plymouth, Massachusetts in 1621 celebrated their first harvest in the New World with wild turkey. The Loyalists spread this custom to Nova Scotia in the 1750s. 
In 1879, the Canadian Parliament declared Nov. 6 a day of Thanksgiving and a national holiday. Over the years, 
the date changed. On Jan. 31, 1957, Parliament finally proclaimed that Canada's Thanksgiving would be observed on the second Monday in October. 

Legend has ii ... 
The Navajos tell of an enormous hen turkey that flew over their fields bringing them corn and teaching them how to cultivate their crops. 
Benjamin Franklin was displeased when the bald eagle was chosen over his proposed "original native" turkey as a national symbol. He said the turkey was a more respectable bird and a true original native of America. 

Haw f'urkey Became the Festive Bird 
In England, the harvest festival has been celebrated for many years. Legends 
says that Queen Elizabeth was s_itting with the troops eating roast goose to cel­ebrate the harvest festival when news was brought to her that the Spanish Armada had sunk on its way to attack England. The queen was so delighted that she ordered a second goose to celebrate the good news. Thus the goose became the choice bird at festival time in England. When the pilgrims came to the new world, they continued the tradition of celebrating the harvest festival 
but geese were not plentiful. Since there were lots of wild turkeys and they were easier to find, they roasted turkeys instead. 

Bow did 'l'urkey takeover Christmas dinner? 
In England, swans, peacocks and cranes were historically roasted for special occa­sions. Things may have changed because of Charles Dickens. Some say that, with "A Christmas Carol," he popularized the serving of turkey for Christmas dinner. 

Where does that 'l'urkey you're eating actually came from? ... 
The world's largest producer of turkey eggs is Cuddy International Corporation in Strathroy, Ontario, Canada. One in four turkeys eaten is hatched from an egg from this hatchery. 
Hybrid Turkeys Inc. of Kitchener, Ontario, Canada is one of only three primary turkey breeders in the world, and they have customers in more than 45 countries. 
.... 

Most of the turkeys raised commercially are White Hollands which have all-white plumage. 

f'hat's a lat alleltave,s! 
The Guinness Book of Records states that the greatest dressed weight recorded for a turkey is 39.09 kg (86 lbs), .... at the Dec. 12, 1989 11 heaviest turkey" competition held in London, England. 
Far mare turkey tacts check out www.Urban£egends.miningco.com 
----~---_......_______.,_.,__.______-----....----.----.,.-~-------------...--~.,...--­
page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, November 24, 1998 
¦ GYMNASTICS 

Murder case rocks NC State's gymnastics program 
Three female gymnasts charged in shooting death 
Associated P rc:ss 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

Three female gymnasts from North Carolina State were charged Monday in connection with the shooting death of another stud1mt, bringing the total number of students 
Associ.atr:dl•tcts 
Records ar -OfFa:Ple is r

, 
.hq'\y-/'trl cs&~a have no' ~,()f •• 
the BtQµs.oSJ' sive end Neil' as a:t1:l~itl J.t c~nnof:i.!l,tf . beatable.We 
Jtstjardto'.te 


Classifieds 

charged in the case to nine. 
Except for one student, all arc Wolfpack athletes, includ­ing football players and wrestlers. 
Among the three reserve foot­ball players charged Sunday was David Stringer, son of Rutgers women's basketball coach C. Vivian Stringer. His cousin. Korey Stringer, plays for the Minnesota Vikings. 
The charges were filed after Neil Davis Jr., a 21-year-old junior from Fayetteville, was shot with his own gun during a 
struggle with wrestler Clyde  ed wi.th gunshots, police said.  20, of Wilkes-Barre, Pa.; Willie  
Blunt, 20, of Modesto, Calif ..  Investigators said Davis fired  Wright, 19. of Greensboro; and  
early Sunday, police  said.  several shots from a 9 mm pis­ Stringer,  19,  of  North  
Blunt,  the  defending  ACC  tol in the direction of a nearby  Brunswick, N.J.  
heavyweighi champion, was  noisy house party. A bullet  Michael Mordarski,  a  20­ 
charged  with  involuntary  fragment  nicked  wrestler  year-old  wrestler  from  
manslaughter.  George Cintron in the 9houlder,  Marietta, Ga.,  was  charged  
The gymnasts. Rebecca Ann  but he didn't require treatment.  with breaking and entering, as  
Geiger,  21, Jennifer  Erin  Davis was shot in the stom­ was former wrestler Daniel  
Sommer, 20, and Maggie Elaine  ach during  a  struggle with  Campenella,  21, of  Coral  
Haney, 20, were charged with  Blunt,  who  went  to  Davis'  Springs, Fla,  
selling malt beverages to a per­ house with five other athletes  Mordarski and Campenella  
son under 21 and selling malt  after the shots  were  fired.  were  released on their own  
beverages without a valid state  Raleigh police Capt. Michael  recognizance Sunday night.  
permit. Their house was the  Longmire said.  The three football players  
scene of the party Davis target- Longmire said the gun was in  secured bonds ranging from  
Davis' possession when the shot  $1,000 to $2,500.  
was  fired  about  2:30  a.m.  Blunt was released Monday  
Sunday. Davis died about six  on a $5,000 bond.  
hours later.  The wrestlers and football  
Police  on  Monday  also  players were suspended.  
charged  ChristophM  ray  Tho athletic departKJ.ent said  
Green. 30, of Fayetteville, with  wrestling coach Bob Cuzzo had  
misdemeanor breaking and  no  comment,  but  football  
entering into Davis' townhouse  coach Mike O'Cain said:  
with the athletes. Green is not  "I'm sick to my stomach....  
an NCSU student. Longmire  I'm disappointed frankly that  
said.  our guys wouldn't make a bet­ 
The football players were  ter decision than the one they  
charged with misdemeanor  did. Obviously, it was some­ 
breaking and entering and mis­ thing that could have very easi­ 
demeanor assault. They were  ly been avoided. but they chose  
identified as Harold .Jackson,  not to."  
¦ NBA  
Rodman and Electra  
agree to annulment  
Associated Press  

ORANGE, Calif. 
Basketball bad boy Dennis Rodman filed annulment papers Monday to end his nine-day marriage to television actress and ex­Playboy model Carmen Electra, a spokeswoman for Electra said. 
"Carmen and Dennis spoke several days ago and mutually agreed (to end the marriage)," said Ms. Electra's publicist, Cindy Guagengi. 
Details on the filing in Orange County family court were not available after business hours Monday. Rodman has a home in nearby Newport Beach. 
The couple married Nov. 14 in Las Vegas, but Rodman's agent, Dwight Manley, immediately expressed misgivings. 

"Obviously, anyone that would marry some-Rodman body that was intoxicated to the point that they couldn't speak or stand had ulterior motives of some sort," Manley said two days after the wedding . 
But the Chicago Bulls star said afterward he was indeed in love and apologized "for any false statements given on my behalf regarding my marriage to Carmen Electra." 
Neither Rodman nor his agent could be reached for comment Monday. Rodman and Ms. Electra, 26, have been dating since the spring. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
__N_o_T_i_c_Es_.......11 LOST & FOUND j  .__I_Fo_R_RE_N_T_  __,  Room for Rent in Turtle Creek apartments.Call 273-2435.  PERSONAL  
Full Color Desktop Publishing  
THE COPY SHOP  Lost black CD player case  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  Room. $250/mo. Use kit.  Bellaboo, you day is coming. We  Services are now available at The  
LaFortune Student Center  with 10 CO's. big reward.  NO/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  2 mi. !rom campus.  love you!  Copy Shop in Lafortune.  
We're Open A Loll 11  please. call john 4-3650  TO CAMPUS. 243-0658.  Pref. female grad. Avail. end of  xoxo  Design, Scanning, Printing and  
Mon-Thur 7:30 am -Midnight  Dec.  SLASM  Copying in COLOR!  
Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm  FoLJnd: Keys on Adidas keychain  THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  246-1916.  
Sat: Noon · 6:00 pm  outside Debartolo. Call x0584.  Breakfast Inn has space available  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  I love turkey!  
Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies,  Thanks  for lootball/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80­ FOR SALE  Break'' Spring Break Packages are going  I don't remember what happened  
- we're open!  $115, Middlebury,30 miles from  fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica  last night?  
Early Spring Break  WANTED  campus Toll Road.Exit #107  PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20  Packages for the Class of '99!Stop in al Anthony Travel in the  One night I went to Tick Tock and  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  1-800-418-9487  CALL 258-4805  Lafortune Student Center and  !eared lor my life. Whal kind of  
Days $27911ncludes most meals'  • ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST  check out the best Spring Break  place sell beverages and has a  
Awesome  SPRING BREAK PRICES TO  BED 'N BREAKFAST AEGISTRY­ vacations around.Get your deposit  dance party in back?  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  SOUTH PADRE (FREE  rooms-FB·JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  
FloridalCancun & Jamaica  MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA.KEY­ FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS'  chance with an unknown agency or  Turkey'  
Air,Hotel,Meals &Parties  WEST,PANAMA CITY.REPS  1,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  8cd box set. not available in  some 1-800 number.Limited space  
- $339!Panama City Room With Kitchen,7 Free Parties  NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE,EARN CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6551  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  available,so book now' Anthony Travel,lnc.  Just say no! Just say no! Just say no no no, it's not for me.  
$129IDaytona Room With Kitchen  6+.  LaFortune Student Center  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  631-7080  Did anyone see a shoe in the  
1-800-678-6386  800-838-8203.  AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272­ PHONE CARDS  bleachers of the student section?  
6306  $20 buys 282 mins.  
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book  Contact:  Looking for a unique gift?  I woke up in my lleece with it zipped  
Early & Receive a Free Meal  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­ WALK TO CAMPUS  Andrea -634-2584  all the way up.  
Plan!l'Cancun & Jamaica  Workers earn up to $2000+/morith  2-5 BEDROOM  Dori -684-3339  Bri~g in 12 of your favorite pictures  
$399.Bahamas $459,Panama City  (wltips & benef1ts).World  232-2595  MiMi -634-0907  and we'll create a custom color cal­ Adios!  
$99.  Travel!Land-Tour jobs up to $5000­ endar.  
1-eoo-234-n01  $7000/summer Ask us how! 517­ House for rent, 105 Marquette,  That's all she wrote.  
endlesssummertours.com  336-4235  5 bedrooms. available now and for  MAC Powerbook145 $400080  THE COPY SHOP  
Ext.C55841  next fall, 232-6964  x2115  Lafortune Student Center  

-------. 

Tuesday, November 24, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 
Iva Sanchez, 1998 graduate of Notre Dame and a believer in the United Way.  Eva Sanchez knows full well the value of United Way agencies ­as the recipient of services, a volunteer and now a paid staff member. Raised in Seminole, Texas, Eva graduated from high school in 1981 and moved to Indiana with her husband in 1987. They divorced a year later, leaving Eva to raise three children a.s a single mom working two jobs in Elkhart and Goshen. Despite the sometimes difficult circumstances, Eva retained a lifelong dream to attend college and, in 1994, enrolled at Holy Cross College. At about the same time, she was introduced to the people and services at La Casa de Amistad, a United Way agency that provided food assistance to Eva and her children. Founded 25 years ago on the west side of South Bend, La Casa works primarily with the city's Hispanic population, providing programs for youths and families such as English as a Second Language and citizenship classes, counseling, legal aid, computer training, and health and translation services. Eva, after receiving assistance, decided to give back to La Casa as a volunteer in the food pantry. Meanwhile, her dreams of higher education flourished. She graduated from Holy Cross and was admitted to Notre Dame in 1996. While attending the University full time, she also served in an AmeriCorps position at La Casa de Amistad. By her senior year, Eva was working in a paid position for the agency and at one point served as interim executive director. At age 35, Eva graduated magna cum laude from Notre Dame last spring with a bachelor's degree in government and sociology. She's now assistant director for community programs at La Casa de Amistad and hopes to continue her education at the Notre Dame Law School. Like thousands of Notre Dame faculty, staff and students, Eva Sanchez is a shining example ­in every way--of what United Way agencies mean to the people of our community.  

Tuesday, November 24, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Jordan and Penn upset Temple Owls 
Associated Pres~ 
PHILADELPHIA 

Michael Jordan had 22 points as Penn stunned No. 6 Temple with three 3-pointers in overtime Monday night for a 73-70 victo­ry, the Quakers' first over John Chaney. 
The Owls (4-1), who hadn't lost to Penn since 1982, had a chance to win their second straight game at the foul line in the closing seconds of regulation. But Lynn Greer made the first to tie it nt 58 anrl missed the second with 3.4 seconds left, sending it to overtinw. 
GrN·r. subbing for injured Pepe Sanchez. led the Owls with 23 points. Sanchez, whose two free throws with 0.5 seconds left beat No. 7 Michigan State on Friday night, was out with a sprained ankle. 
The Quakers (1-1 ). who lost a 61-56 thriller to No. 8 Kansas last week. nearly blew a six-point lead in overtime. But after Jordan hit two free throws with 5.8 seconds left, Greer dribbled to the top of the key and missed a 3-point attempt at the buzzer. 
The sellout crowd of 8,732 charged the floor in the Pahistra to celebrate Penn's first victory over Temple in 18 tries since Chaney has coached the Owls. 
Temple missed its first four field goal attempts in overtime whlle Jordan, Frank Brown and Jed Ryan hit 3-pointers for a 66-59 lead with 1 :42 left. The Owls also missed four of their first foul shots in OT. 
But Brown drove to the basket and was blocked instead of run­ning down the clock, anri Paul Romanczuk fouled Lamont Barnes after a steal under the basket with 7.2 seconds left, giving Temple hope. Barnes, who had 15 points, made both free throws to cut it to 71-70. 
Jordan was fouled and made both with 5.8 seconds remaining to preserve the Quakers' biggest victory in the Palestra since knocking off Villanova 71-59 in 1992. 
Penn last beat Temple 59-56.on Feb. 9, 1982 -the year before Chaney's first season. Owls freshman Mark Karcher fouled out with 16 points. 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
Oregon State student injured by goal post 
Associated Press "Not at al!,"she said. "They were out there for the same rea­CORVALLIS. Ore. sons l was, and I honestly don't 
An Oregon State freshman think they were trying to hurt injured by a goal post torn down somebody." by celebrating fans was moved Prosecutors plan to subpoena out of the intensive care unit videotapes of the postgame cele­
Monday, hospital officials said. bration from a Eugene TV sta­
Cara Marie Martin, who was in tion before deciding whether to serious condition Saturday night pursue charges against any of after being hurt at the Oregon the students who climbed on the 
State-Oregon game, has shown goal post. improvement since then. 
"She's alert, "said hospital spokeswoman Judy Bruce. "Iler family's with her. She seems tn be talking with them. and her spirits are very good." 
Martin is expected to remain hospitalized for a few more days, Bruce said. 
Martin was among thousands of fans who streamed onto the Parker Stadium field after Oregon State beat Oregon 44-41 in double overtime. 
Fans gathered around the south goal post, and a few climbed onto the crossbar. One of the uprights came down, and when the second tumbled, it hit Martin in the head. 
Martin said she didn't hold fans responsible for her injury. 
::. 
., 

to s~µlshin , 've always b team pJ:a.yer but you 
.· made, J into. a situ where · as selfish. 
· said. ·this 
~e"rll"At ~ii ~It Cy 
we caw that;. I fee ·. 1 
cari vvm t eentire thing:" 
The fu.ror $Urrounding Sic~ · stemmed ·from his remarks after Sunday night's 31~.20 win overNew Orleans. 
Rice.the NFL's .cttreer leaderJrt touchdowns, recep• 
· tions and. yards receiving, was a non-factor during much of the game and at times was relegated to the sidelines while follow wideouts Terrell Owens and J .J. Stokes were on the field, 
He was held without a receptrcr.n in: the first half for the first time in six years and 0ni~hed with three.(':,atf~.sJ:Cl_r .· 27 yards, including an 8-yard touchdown pass from Steve Young. , . .. ,. 
Aftet""~t~,the 36·.v~a:rhoJd 

Rice · · about bis 
invo .ifand. Si.lg 
Rife, who is leading the NFC cat,eh~s. after comtng back · two p:-ttjor l<tl~e injuries lh1ed·.nitU 11)~-/:lt, oflast ( also ·said tetiroment em.a.ins in the bB:ck of his 'tj:!ind'. 'He .said might quit after .this season if he feels he no 
· h)uger fits into the 49ers' 1:i,ans. . /'If this drags on(9r a while, tq~'h: you would .~a.ye_ to·· con­
'~Jtlet that. You h<1veJp think ~b01.1t tha~ if you're.not having a good time," Rice said. ·...·· Rice said he's leaving the play:talling up to the coaches :l'l:Pd he's not putting pressure 
~teve Youngto,get him the more. ·• ,,,, u.(ifl get the opportunity, lfeeUike I can make the plays and open everything up," Rice said. "You've got to have a spa.rk. You look atMinnesota. 
the go-to guy is Chris Carter. You look at Dallas. the go-to~by is Michael Irvin.You've 
alway!> got to have. somebody that is going to spark the team. I'm not saying the other guys can't do it, but you have to call some numbers and it has to be up to those guys to Jnake some plays and get things started." 
Coach Steve Mariucci said Rice remains incredibly pro­ductive but might be frustrat­ed over the nagging percep­tion that he's not the same player since coming back from his injuries. 
"I think it's just starting to wear on him." Mariucci said, "Everybody thinks he's lost a step and he's not this and he's not that. 
"Just let him b'e" great, you know. and appreciate Jerry for what he is. Why dwell on, he lost half a step. Considering all the circum$ta.nces, he's j'Utilt been tremendous." 
Dinner, 4:30 -7:00 p.m. Thursday, Thanksgiving Day Breakfast -8:00 -9:30 a.m. Thanksgiving Day Buffet -12:00 noon -3:30 p.m. 
Friday and Saturday, 11/27-28 Brunch -11:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. Dinner -4:30 p.m, -6:00 p.m. 
Sunday, 11/29 Brunch -11:00 a.m. -1:00 p.m. Dinner -4:30 p.m. -7:00 p.m. 
South Dining Hall Food Market 
Closes after lunch on Wed., 11/25, and reopens for dinner on Sunday. 11/29. 
havirig 
's some-
to make 
I Iknow 
~d. tirn~. 
·. me ;tp 
isted his s were tion. He y por: orbed 
~r.~.~ 
M 
E, 

his main point, which was to call attention to San Francisco's sluggish starts, in recent games. 
"Why can't I be frustrated. I'm a competitor," Rice said. ~It has nothing to do with catches. Why do I need extra catches? I hold the record for catches. That's not important for me. 
"Yes, I wouldlike opportuni­ties. I'm a competitor, but I _havt to waiL We've got oth~-rpeople on· the'leam'1.haf' are· going to get opportunities also. It's notall about the catches. It's n.ot all about the ,ret.:ords .. It's x been·abcillt 
......... . 

Reckers 
Wed., 11/25 -open until 10 p.m. 
Thurs., 11/26 -closed 
Fri., 11/27 -9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. 
Sat., 11/28 -9:00 a.m. -7:00 p.m. 
Sun., 11/29 -9:00 a.m. -10:00 p.m. 
Mon., 11/30 -7:00 a.m. -24 hours 
Huddle 
Wed., 11/25 -7:30 a.m -5:00 p.m. Thurs., Fri., Sat., 11/26-28 -closed Sun., 11/29 -HuddleMart Convenience 
Store open -6:00 p.m. -2:00 a.m. 
page 15 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, November 24, 1998 
---~--________..::..:::..:.;:....::::...::.::..::.:...:...:;_::____:::...::___:=...=.;:.:.::....::_--;::::::::;::;:::::;::::::;;::::::::::::::;:::::::::==::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::========::===; 

Soccer 
continued from page 20 
its third-round game. Kim Stilns scored two 
goali; and .Jonna .Johnson had three assists. 
LaK1iysia Bonne and tlrn rost of the Irish dPfonsH, hnwPvnr. havn been solid all suason for thl' Irish am! will posP a thrca1 I'm· the upset-minded Pilots. 
"We have so much conridence with her (Beenel back there," Streiffer said. "She's doosn 't get too many opportunities to shine in games. but we've seen what she can do in practice. We have all kinds of confidence in her." 
With a win, the Irish will make their fifth­straight trip to the semilinals of the NCAA tour­nament. 

International Summer Research 


Research Grants for Undergraduates 
Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
up to $3,000 
For more information, come to a meeting on Wednesday, December 2, 1998 at 5:00 p.m. DeBartolo 118 
For further information, contact: Professor Michael Franci.~. 1-5203 (Hurley 110) 
1aVoft~vaALl --· 

Tho Obsetver/John Daily 
Senior captain Lindsey Treadwell recently earned all-Big East first team honorswhile leading Notre Dame to the Big East title. 

Treadwell named Academic All-District 
Special to The Observer 

Notre Dame senior Lindsay Treadwell has been selected to the 
1998 G'fE Academic All-District V women's volloyball first tonm. 
The team is chosen by the College Sports Information 
Directors of America (CoSIDA) from Division I volleyball teams in 
Indlan{I., lllinols, Minnesota., Wisconsin, Manitoba and Ontario, 
Canada. 

Treadwell (Austin, Tex.), Notre Dame's team captain and only f9orth-year player, is a. three-time Dean's List student with a · 3.35 grade-point average in American studies. Just last weekend 
she was named to the 1998 All-Big East first team and led the Irish to their fourth-straight Big East Championship and sev• eoth-consecutive"NCM Tournament bid. 
The middle blocker is Notre Dame's all-time career hitting percentage leader and also already appears in 12 .other career statistical categol'ies. This season she leads the tt~am in hitting percentage, service aces, digs and total blocks, made two all­tournament teams and was a Big East Player of the Week in early Septemb~r. 
Treadwen joins follow first ttJam selections Melissa Beitz (Illinois), Michelle Kutcher (Illinois State), Marisa Mackey (Wisconsin), Amy Pickett (Butler} and Lindsay Hesmer (Southern lllinois),,who will all advance to the national bnllot and be oligi­ble for the GTE Academic All-America Team. The academic All­America team will be released December 15. 

,,,. 



MEN IN BLACK 
1(/~a,z;e~? 
7(1Wutkut-~? 

-
?M~~tM,(k 
~~~e,.d:uite ~~ 
~ s~ • ~ ~.1~46/!fs~ 
(219) 6Sl-6.51S • Mt,t-:/1-....t.d&l~--u-
ANSWER~ THECALLW 
page 16 The Observer• PAID ADVERTISEMENT · ' '· ''"'• ml-" Tuesday, November 24, 1998 

+ Campus Ministry This Week + 
I I
f .,. 
I 
' 
.,, 







OFFICE OF 
CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hesburgh Library: 631-7800 112 Badin Hall: 631-5242 Basilica Offices: 631-8463 
Web Page: 

http://www.nd.edu/ ~ministry 

Thursday, November 26, 11:30 am Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

Thanksgiving Day Mass 
Beginning Monday, November 30 103 Hesburgh Library 112 Badin Hall or see your rector 
Freshman Retreat #21 (February 12-13) Sign-Up 
Targeted Dorms: Carroll, Cavanaugh, Dillon, Lewis, McGlinn, Pangborn, Siegfried, Sorin, and Zahm 
Friday-Sunday, December 4-6 

NOE #53 Retreat 
Sunday, December 6, 11:45 a.m. Basilica of the Sacred Heart 

RCIA-Rite of Welcotne 
Sunday, December 6, 4:00 p.m. Sorin Hall Chapel 
Rejoice! Black Catholic Mass 

Exposition of the Blessed Sacrainent 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until 4:45 pm, Lady Chapel, Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Emmaus 
Looking for an exciting place to explore and share your faith with others? Look no further. Enzmaus is here. For more information on joining a small faith sharing community in our Emmaus program contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016. 

page 17 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, November 24, 1998
---------------------------'------'-------'---'-------------------~-----_:.____:~ 
¦ WOMEN'S 8ASKETBALl 


Irish host Fightin' Illini 
Hy URIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Spor1s Edirnr 
11<•11<! cond1 Muffet McGraw and the 11th­ranknd Notro Damn womon·s basketball team couldn't havn askml !'or a bNtor start to the sea­son. 
Tho Irish are 3-0 und have already knocked off two top-10 opponnnts in UCLA and Duke. 
"WP wnrn nxciltid with the way we played, considering how they w,~n~ ranked," center Huth Hihiy said. "But it's still early in the season, so wn'rn not going to rdax and tako it easy." 
Notrn Dnme is now rnady to take on Illinois and San Francisco in non-conference games. Tlw Irish host the Fighting Illini tonight at the Juycn C1,ntor hnfi>re travoling to San Francisco lo t.ik11 on tlw Lady Dons. 
"Illinois is in tlw top 25, so that will be a tough )!ame," Hiley snid. "That's the gamfl we're focus­ing on right now. Thcy'rn a solid team." 
In an 84-57 win over No. 6 Duke this weekend, guard Daninlle (;reeu and center Hiley each burrw<l llw B!uo Devils for 20 points. Hiley pulled down 18 hoards, setting a now school record, amt tiPd anntlwr school mark with eight blocks. 
"Aft(!!' tlrn way wr. played against them last y,mr. ,werymw was excit<•d Lo get a chance lo n1d1i11m ourselves," Hilr.y said. 
Illinois is also off to a quick start. Thuy are 2-0 and ranked 24th in tho nation. Tho Illini arP coming off a 76-51 home win <1vnr W1Lgner in which four players scored in 
double digits. 

Freshmen Cindy Dallas and Allison Curtin ea'ch had 14-point performances, while Alicia Sheeler added 13. Tauja Catchings had a double-double with 10 points and 1 O rebounds. 
"Tauja Catchings is the sister of Tamika, who plays for Tennessee," Hiley said. "She's a really great athlete." 
The Lady Dons also boast a 2-0 record, includ­ing wins ovur lclaho State and San Diego State. Sarah Wanless. .Jennifer l\ladkins and Brittany Lindhe all had a team-high 12 points in its most recent win over Idaho State. 
Different players have stepped it up in each game. Senior captain Sheila McMillen had 1 l poinL<; in the win over No. 6 UCLA, while Nielc Ivey earned co-Big East player or the week hon­ors l'or her 25-point, 11-assist performance. 
Green a ·career-high 23 points in the wins Butler and UCLA. Thfl Irish have also gotten quality minutes out of freshmen Shcrisha Hills and Ericka llaney. 
Following the matchups with IHinois and San Francisco, the Irish will have just one more tune-up before starting conference play against Connecticut. 
"Ea.ch game, we're trying to get better," Riley said. "I think thp,rn is a differp,ncp, between how we played in the exhibition games and how we're playing now. We just trying to keep improving." 
The Irish hope to improve their record to 5-0 by the time the Thanksgiving holiday is over. 
The Observer/Liz Lang Center Ruth Riley poured in 20 points against Duke and hopes to continue her and her team's success against Illinois. 

Swint 

continued from page 20 
holds the 18th ranking. 
"If you comparnd our times to last year's meet, we would have boen in finals a lot more often, rather than not making finals for this rnnet," Iacobucci said. 
The meet gave the team a chance to experience the three­day championship fonnat. This helped them prepare for February's Big East Championships and the NCAA Championship meet in March. 
"I think (the Minnesota Invitational) is a real good indi­cator of' where we were as a 
C[NT£R ,oR 
Center for Social Concerns 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Semlna.:r-
The Mexico Seminar is a one-credit service-learning opportunity in Mexico. During two weeks in late spring/early summer, Notre Dame and Saint Mary's students provide service to a variety of people while experiencing the realities of Latin America directly. The program seeks to provide intercultural exchange through shared work experience in the context of a faith community. Students participate in fundraising efforts to lower costs. 
• 
Two weeks in Mexico: May 13 to May 30th, 1999 (leaving time for summer work) 

• 
One credit Theology (Theo 366) 

• 
Spanish helpful but not required 

• 
Information Meeting: 

November 30, 4:15 PM at the Center (optional) 

• 
Applications are available at the Center 

• 
Applications due Mon., Dec. 4th by 5:00 PM with deposit 


For more information: Pedro Cavallero, 634-4146 Dr. Jay Brandenberger, 631-5293 
Please recycle The Observer. 




Think ofus 
as yoursclioolbus. 

olidays, semester breaks or heading home tor your sister ~ wedding, ii going heme means catching a plane at Midway or ,O'Hare. lhe oest way to the airporl is United Limo. 
Frequent sel\lice, an day trom campus gets you ti""'' on schedule And when it's time to hit the booKs again. we'll pick you up at Iha airport and bring you back 10 
school. No hassles. no prohl""'"· For inforrna11on and :;cheoule consult )IOUr travel agoot or call 
800-833-5555 
UNITED LIMO 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midway, All Day... Every Day 
team," Weathers said. "It tells us some good things that dual meets don't tell us. We learned what we need to accomplish in training for the rest of the year." 
"Bailey talked a lot about incorporating more speed work into practice," Iacobucci said. "We have strength and endurance, but we need speed on the starts and other parts of the race." 
The Irish were a strong pres­ence in the diving events. Freshman Heather Mattingly grabbed second place on the three-meter springboard with 
480.5 points. She also scored a third-place finish from the one­meter board with 425.4· points. 

Gina Ketelhohn and Jessica .Johnstone helped the Irish outscore all other teams in the one-meter event, finishing fourth and sixth respectively. 
Two other freshmen scored a total of 67 points individually. Allison Lloyd won the 100 breaststroke and placed sixth in the 200, while Kelly Ilecking captured second in both back­stroke events. 
The next meet f'or both men and women is the Notre Oame Invitational, Dec. 3-5 at Holt's Aquatic Center. 
The Irish will host Warns from nine schools, including Michigan whose men's and women's teams are both ranked eighth nationally. 

Tuesday, November 24, 1998 The Observer• 
SPORTS 

page 18 

·1,··'.:i"',:;,:; ,•·: ':· ,:-.-./ -~,. 
•¦ HolilffiV; ·•>~~,· •··••·· 



f~~iit:,~.l~•iw~;lllin;pis natives 
Sp~daJ to '.the Ob.server. , }~3c~r~f.)r gaihes), l~ft wing . tea.n1Cbased I Faribault, Minn.) 
..........·• . > : . . . . > · ik fl,9 a, (:'.iZ g~~ls, 40 duringJ996-97, after playing 
'w'Pbe!Jt;,l"'etsitytif No .•.. ·.•. . .. is .. · >1 < • eer garu.es), ·two s'easons for tht lllinois­
l{ockey 't¢ani ha;~· signe~. two clefenseman aenoit Cotnoir (22 based Northwest Chargers. Illinois nativ~s·right wing ,$'()a!s, .~9 assi~tsiu 11.s career NJelsen will begin his second
t~r!:S~ifJn~~[~tt; t\l!f ·,:1t~s(~ffl~~?:ed::,~0t!f~~\.. fia:t~itoa!n:~eo:n~;ti:r;;a~f; Evanston~to national f with a ~.09 g<\als-agaim11,aver• December, after spending his 
;i9t~g(qilfing Jl'!:)~Je-H g , ~g!:l:S.a.~ ,;ii:, -~11?:. $6.V~. p9r;cEinh firsttivo years at Evanston (Ill.)period, h<;lB.d C0'1,cp, Dave ·n . agel. , , . ·· High School. During his junior announced today: · Chin and NieJsen both took season, the 6-2, 195-pound /'These tW(l., player::;.11W9t,.t\fO thet qffi~iaJ vi~it 1P Notre Dame Nielsen had seven goals and six crutial · needs for usrin 'Pr'.OVi<l• -i'tlrre.1¥ "e~ks a.~tr befor~ com-assists while helping Taft place ing a proven go~lscorerJ;tnd a ·'initti.titto the ftish earlier this 10th in New England with a skllle.d i:lifenstil;lan ," J?J).uHn week.. , record of 14-8. Duringthe sum­
0s1ard, 11s,;.. nice,1 ;,~:~,. 4Q~-pound ,Chin,. mer of'97, he
'rocril·" is year 'as O gi:;{l;'duateq from Urbana was selected as the best to previous years 1s tllc!i1 we S¢hool in May of '98, cur-defenseman at the prestigious kno b tl , .ndq9adin,g) ant1uq.lHockey t'light}n Boston,;JiA,vi a'' r' ited States where he played as a member need. The class isstillnotf,com• ·· :aockeYteague: \Vi.th 17 goals of the Midwest all-star team ,PJete t:n,9;P,~~~$ · · .lji}e helping the,•· that finished as runner-up,
~tq ·.• · · · ' BU:hc1uteers Nielsen, who played with the 
•... •2. ·· Chicago Young Americans as a 
tl1q .J997~98 ;icade· seventh and eight grader and rob.er"-ofth~ was ~.a:med "best team player":'-Jift,\}ttlona.l at Evanston as a sophomore. 
br; Mich, had an invitation to train with he· the µ.:s. undBr-18 national al;' ·Ven> . team tl!.lll sellson but elected ·tois~ before return to Taft; Like Chin, he 
two of.·14< has l'.il~t experience.playing jn
lplaf,fiwi·.•the .t.r..Sc selec1i~t6. and.select,17 
· · " festivals. "Eytt.n is a very $kllled 
• de < .•.·• aµ ~lld st.ropg. skater 
· h }i1:1,s good size and plays smarton the ice," said Poulin. "Addtng Evan and Michael reirifqteeS the fact that we've been able to attract some quali­ty players from Illinois over the past f?'llple pf~earsap.d thet~'.s no question that. there has been a big increase in the talent level in Illinois. " 
KRAMER TIMES 
Volume 1 Issue 1 NOVEMBER 1998 

nine bedroom student housing available *Student neighborhoods close to campus *Security systems provided *Well maintained homes *Maintenance staff on call 
Available/or the 1999/2000 school year 
Contact Kramer {219) 276-7020 or (219) 674-2571 or (219) 233-4509 

They defeated 4th ranked 

11 WomensBasketball 
vs. 

UCIA last Satllrday!! 
#24 Illinois 
See this awesome tec11n in action for
T1.1esday, Nov. 24th 
yourse(f'!!

7:30pm 

First 500 fans in gate I 0 will receive a
All students, faculty and staff .....FREE 
FREE adidas headband!! 
*Domus Properties has two, five, six and 

Hockey 
continued from page 20 
5-3-1 with a solid 2.24 goals against average. He ranks sec­ond in the CCHA with a .918 save percentage. 
Tonight's game is the second one played between the two clubs this season, with the first one taking place back on Oct. 16 in Big Rapids. In that game, Notre Dame's youth provided the heroics. 
Freshmen Sam Cornelius and Brett Henning each scored late in the third period to seal the win. 
Cornelius's first career goal gave his team a 4-3 lead with 
4:04 to play. Just 32 seconds later, Henning's first career goal iced the game for the Irish, making the final tally 5­3. 
Earlier in the season, the power play provided the spark for the team's offense, as the unit notched at least one goal in each of the team's first four CCHA games. While the num­bers still show Notre Dame to have the league's top power play at 31.1 percent, the unit has had some trouble recently finishing on scoring opportuni­ties. This is not to say that the team's power play has been sloppy or erratic. It has actual­ly has been consistently creat­ing chances just as it did earli­er this year. 
But even with all the pres­sure they have applied in the last three games, the power play unit has only scored one goal in 14 chances. 
Injuries continue to plague the Irish, as they look to dress a lineup similar to the one from this past Saturday's game in Ann Arbor. Forwards Aniket Dhadphale and Joe Dusbabek, along with defenseman Ryan Clark will most likely be out of action due to recent injuries. 
Goaltender Forrest Karr has logged all but 1 :05 of the team's minutes this year (the net was empty for 1 :05 in the loss at WMU), so back-to-back games just three short days ago might force coach Poulin to rest him as well. If Karr does get the night off. it is not clear who will start in his place, as the battle for backup between sophomore Kyle Kolquist and freshman Jeremiah Kimento has been interesting thus far. 
page 19 
The Observer• TODAY Tuesday, November 24, 1998 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
DAN SULLIVAN 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 

EUGENIA LAST 

'wf. 1HANk Yo/J 8EC.4USE fJ/,JT ;",'Josr OF ,41,.L
,r ,s ~ooD ANt:, Hc,T... 
BECAVS'E 1T /SN 'T DININti HALL. 


FOXTROT BILL AMEND 
WELl, MoM ·s BVS'f IN 1l1E I'D SAY You GoT LEi'S k1TCHEN AND DAD'S 
HERE AT THE' SEE... e GLvEI) To SoME Fool· PERFECT T1Mf.
I ! 81\L~ GAME ON TV. 




\ 

GoSH, WE I MEANT HA~EH'T FoR SMoOCHED 
DINNER. SINCE, WHAT, YESTERDAY? 
/ 
SCOTT ADAMS 
Tl-\11-.T'S  fA :iC.INATING.  ,; C  
'(OIJ  5HOULO  s~ow  
THEM TO  WALLY.  IT  
WOULD 141\VE  t,..  13IG  
I r-\P~CT ON  HIM.  

DILBERT 
l'M f'EEl ING l"\UC.1--1 i-\El>.L11-\IER SINCE I STRAl'PEO ALL OF 
THESE. f-\l>.GNETS TO f"\'( t)OO't'. 
CROSSWORD 
52 Rikki-tikki--­(Kipling mongoose) 53 Capable of 54 Little that's visible 57 Poker call 
58 Mending site 
59 Louis XIV, 1643-1715 
60 Hawaii's state bird 
61 Remove from office 
62 Dunne of "I Remember Mama" 

DOWN 

1 Thick-trunked tropical tree 2 Italian soprano Scotto 3 Clarinetist Shaw 
and others 4 Refrigerate s One of Kreskin's 
claims Puzzle by EIieen Lexau &Wee one 
25 Like a three-43 Bygone Russian 52 10 C-notes 7--voce dollar-bill group 53 Opposite of 
(almost in a 26 Cashew, e.g. 44 Electrical unit unter, in German whisper) 28 "Tickle me" doll 45 Female 54 Can's 

a Spillane's"-­
29Anger attendant composition
Jury" 

32 Quantity: Abbr. 46 Cheap cigar 55 Notwithstanding9Visualize 48 Sierra that, briefly 

ACROSS 
1 Prop up aGoddess pictured in 
Egyptian tombs 10Fraud 14OId autos 15 Short letter 16 Patriot Nathan 11 Feeling really 
good zo Get-out-of-jail money 21 Hors d'oeuvre 
spread 22 Song for Aida 23 Chomped down 24 "--cost to 
you!"• 25 Novelist Waugh 21 Batter's goal 29Frigid 
30 "Turandot" slave girl 31 Moon-landing vehicle 
32--de 
Triomphe 33 "I --Grow Up" ("Peter Pan" song) 
34 Heads of state get-together 38 "It can't be!" 39 Be in session 
40 Nothing 
41 Peas' holder 42 Pennies: Abbr. 
43Creeks 
47 Storm warnings at sea 49 Clinton's #2 so Wrestler's place 51 Site for a swing 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

33 Sly trick 1o Beach 34 Cable channel 49 Scottish Celts 56 Biblical priest 

11 Set of bells 12 Relieving 35 Support 36"--the 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle season ..." 18 They expect the are available by touch-tone phone: 
best 37 Radial, e.g. 
1-900-420-5656 (75Q: per minute). 38Photo-­
Annual subscriptions are available for the 
EAT ION 

(media events) TER DPLANS 
24 "Um, excuse best of Sunday crosswords from the last 
me
1' 42 Musical sign 50years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
mak,g Cfin'stmas a fittfe 6rigliterfor a cfiila! <Toy cfonations wi[[6e tafign at tfie (J?S<R_C, the <.RJ,ct Loftus anatfie Joyce Center Pacufty/ Staff Pitness CJ?J)om. JI[[toys wi{[ 6e cfonateato tfie 'Jvlarine Corps "Toysfor Tots". (J)onations wi([6e taksn 11/30-12/11. 
For more Info. Contact:
<M.ittens ana fiats are neecfedtoo. 
RecSports -1-6100
<Pfease, no 'Vio[ence-relatecf toys. 

www.nd.edu/-recs ort 
~=~ 
Jfe[p tfze ~cSports Cha{fenge V <Fitness Staff 
TUESDAY, NOVF:MBER 24, 1998 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS 
DAY: William F Buckley Jr., Scott 
Joplin. Geraldine Fitzgerald, Garson 
Kanin 

Happy Birthday: Take action and 
you won't be sorry this year. You 
have what it takes to make )'Our 
dreams come true If you are relent­
less in your pursuits, you will receive 
all that you desire. It's time to force 
yourself to go above and beyond the 
call of duty and to make your mark as 
an individual. Your numbers: 6, 8, 15, 
17,26,33 

ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't tah others for granted or promise more than you can deliver. You may iind that you will be in the limelight for the wrong reasons. Overindul­gence must be avoided. 00 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Secrets will be easily revealed. Be careful not to divulge confidential information. Keep an eye on your cash and you won't run short when \'Ou need it most. 00000 , GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your best achievements will come through ,elf-improvement projects. lnvest­nwnts may go sour, so keep a close eye on them. Don't allow friends or rl'lativcs to take advantage of you financially 000 
CANCER (June 21-July 22): Your wann and giving nature has allowed someone you care about to take you for granted. It's time to sit back and let them show just how much they care.OOO 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Relation• ships will develop on trips Your emo­tional reaction will depend upon your partner. You'll be enticed by someone who can provide both mental and ph1·sical stimulation. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You'll have plenty of opportunities if you work hard. Be careful not to spend too much on entertainment or joint money ventures. Extravagance and overindulgence must be avoided. 
00000 

LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Be up­
front about your intentions and you'll 
get a better response from the people 
you're dealing with. Situations will 
get blown out of proportion if you're 
evasive. Don't give your mate access 
to your credit cards. 00 

SCORPIO (Oct. 2.3-Nov. 21): Take the time to catch up on overdue phone calls. You will need mental stimulation, so get together with those you find interesting. Knowl­edge will be your pursuit. 0000 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Stick to your budget and you won't experience any difficulties late in the day. Dubious get-rich-quick schemes will lead to problems that you can do without. TI,e time to save is now. 
000 

CAPRICORN (Dec. 22•Jon. 19): Stay calm. It's best to let everyone till in the blanks before you make a decision that could change your life Nothing will tum out to be as it appears. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You'll have some amazing ideas to share with others. Don't be reluctant to say what you have in mind. You'll be well-received if you ask tor the help you need to start something 
new.000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Take the time to hear what others have to say before you decide to push your opinions. You'd be wise to step back and let everything fall into place before you try to take over 0000 

Do you have some extra time? Do you want to make some money? The Observer needs reporters and pho-­tographers. Join The Observer staff. 
,, 


¦ San Francisco's Jerry ¦ Poulin signs Illinois Rice talks of calling it talent for Irish hockey quits after the season. program. 
p.14










PORTS 
page 20 olsER.VER Tuesday, November 24, 1998 

Fourth-ranked Notre Dame to face fifth-ranked Portland in quarterfinals 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

The fourth-seeded Notre Dame women's soccer team (21-2­
1) will look to continue its dominance over fifth-seeded Portland (18-2-2) this Saturday at noon, when they host an NCAA quarterfinal game at Alumni Field. 
The Irish have beaten the Pilots five out of the last six times the two college soccer powerhouses have met. All six games have been decided by a one-goal margin. 
"There have been some really good games," junior Jenny Streiffer said. "We came back and beat them a few times. It's always a good game when we play them. Anything can hap­pen." 
--
Notre Dame defeated Portland 1-0 in the 1995 NCAA cham­pionship game in triple overtime. The Irish also defeated the Pilots 1-0 in 1994 semifinals and 3-2 in the 1996 semifinals. 
Most recently, the Irish shutout the Pilots 1-0 in a game played last year at Portland. The only Portland win against the Irish came in 1992 at Alumni Field. 
The Irish have the home field advantage, and are undefeated in their last 45 games at Alumni Field. 
"Just that number alone gives us confidence heading into the game," Streiffer said. "We always play well at home in front of the home crowd." 
Notre Dame is coming off a hard-fought victory against No. 13 Nebraska. The Irish rallied from a one-goal defecit to escape with a 2-1 win in last week's third-round game. 
"That was a good win for the team," Streiffer said. "It was an exciting, emotional game. It was the first time we overcame adversity all season, coming back from a goal down." 
In that game, junior Jenny Heft scored her 27th goal of the season, breaking Cindy DawsO record for goals in a season. Monica Gerardo scored the game winner and became the lrish's all-time leader in points with 190. 
Portland is coming off a 5-0 victory over San Diego State in 
see SOCCER/ page 15 
¦ SWIMMING 

ND takes third at Invite 
By WES RICHARDSON Spores Writer 
The women's swim team defended their No. 22 national ranking this weekend by plar.­in g third at the Minnesota Invitational with 614 points. 
Minnesota won the meet with 1,045.5 points, followed by Wisconsin at 750. Iowa claimed fourth place with 5J5.5 points, followed by Pittsburgh, Utah. Iowa State and Northern Illinois. 
While three days and six ses­sions of intense competition left the Irish exhausted, many swimmers performed better 
than  at  last  year's  meet,  
according  to  coach  Bailey  
Weathers.  

"I thought it was a good meet for us in terms of place and performance," he said. "We're better overall than we were last year, so we're real pleased with that." 
Sophomore Carrie Nixon led the Irish in individual scoring, racking up a whopping 61 points. Nixon won the 50-yard freestyle at 23.59, her season best time and one of two wins for Notre Dame. At 51.59. her second-place 100 freestyle was just 14 hundredths of a second behind Minnesota's Amy Cottrill. She also placed sixth in the 200 freestyle and eighth in lhe 100 butterfly. 
Both Weathers and captian Anne Iacobucci noted that the competition was faster than last year. Competitors tallied 19 NCAA Championship considera­tion times and two meet records. Minnesota is ranked 13th nationally while Wisconsin 
see SWIMMING/ page 17 
¦ HOCKEY 

Regaining CCHA first place tops priority list 
By TED BASSANI displaying both highs and lows. The first Superior State for an eighth place finish Five of the team's top six scorers from Sporn Writer game went back and forth, with each in the CCHA (12-15-3), barely enough to a year ago have returned for the 98-99 team blowing two separate leads. earn them a spot in last year's playoffs. campaign, including last year's second­The Notre Dame hockey team will The next night, freshman forward With 22 of the team's 26 lettermen leading scorer, captain Joel Irwin. The look to regain sole possession of f1rsl Chad Chipchase gave Notre Dame its returning for this season. however, the senior right wing continues his leader­place in the CCIIA as ihcy Lake on ihe only hat trick of the season, scoring Bulldogs are off to a promising start. ship this season as he is presently tied Ferris State Bulldogs tonight in Grand three goals in a span of 7:52 in the sec­Ferris State stands at fourth place in the for the team lead with 11 points in 10 
... Rapids. ond period. Chipchase's heroics were CCI-IA with a conference record of 6-3-games . Although the Irish remain the visiting wasted, however, as the team allowed 1. The Bulldogs have a veteran team, team. tonight's contest will take place at the Rulldogs two third period goals, giv­The newest college hockey poll does with 10 seniors and six juniors on the a neutral site, Van Andel Arena, home ing Perris State a 4-3 win at Ewigleben not include the Bulldogs in the top 10, roster. In addition to experience, FSU is of the Grand Rapids Griffons. The game Ice Arena. but thev stand first off the list with five also strong in goal, with sophomore is the second of seven straight the Irish The third game of the season saw the points,· thus virtually placing them at Vince Owen logging most of the minutes will play on the road. Irish explode for four first period goals, 11th overall. The Bulldogs put them­so far this year. Through last weekend's 
-Last year's season series between putting the game away early. selves on tho map last weekend with play, Owen has an impressive record of Notre Dame and Ferris State was sym­Last season, Ferris State finished one back-to-back wins over previous ninth­
bolic of the entire season for the Irish, point behind Notre Dame and Lake ranked Northern Michigan. 
see HOCKEY/ page 18 
arUSC vs. Ferris State vs. Illinois
M

Saturday, 8 p.m. at Grand Rapids 
SPORTS 

~. ~ Tuesday, 7 p.m. .~ Tuesday, 7 p.m. 
ATA 

NCAA Quaterfinals 
vs. Duke at Great Alaska vs. Portland NCAA first round 
~ 
. Shoocout Saturday, noon @) 
TBA Wednesday, TBA 
GLANCE 




'88 CHAMPIONSHIP. IRISH EXCHANGE ROSTERS IRlSH INSIGHT THE NATION PAGE2 PAGES PAGES PAGE6 PAGE'7 

page 2 The Observer• IRJSH INSIDER Tuesday, November 24, 1998 
ROAD TO THE 

'·88 CHAMPIONSHIP
NOTRE DAME VS. USC 

Irish save best for last against men of Troy 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Spo= Editor  
Notre Dame saved the against the USC Trojans. Tho Irish managed to  best for last knockoff the  

Trojans. 27-10 for the sixth straight year 

In the iinal regular season game, the Irish managf'd to secure a pArfect rer.ord without the talents of tailback Tony Brooks and /lanker Hicky Watters who Holtz sent hack to South Bend the morn­ing of the game. Brooks and Watters earned the plane ticket home because or repeatPd tardiness at team functions. 
USC's Rodney Peete took a hounding from the Irish defense. The quarterback and Heisman trophy candidate found himself under considerable pressure on numerous occasions. Peete hit the turf three times -two of which were cour­tesy of defensive end Frank Starns. Starns also rccovercd one of the fumbles. 
"Aggresiveness, toughness-there's no secret to this game," Starns said. "We blitzed a little bit more than usual became we felt we had to put more pres­sure on him [Peete], and we foreed some turnovers. But there was no secret to it." 
TurnoVfirs plagued the Trojans. They fumbled four times and Peete threw two interceptions. Notre Dame was able to recover two of the four fumbles. 
Peete completed 23 of 44 for 225 yards. "We didn't handle the blitz toady," USC 
IRISH INSIDER EDITOR: KATHLEEN LOPEZ ASSOCIATE EDITORS: JOEY CAVATO. ALLISON K.RILLA ASSISTANT EDITORS: SHANNON RYAN DESIGN: MARK DEBOY GRAPHICS: PETE CILELLA COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAlLY 

coach Larry Smith said. "We handled it all year but today it was like we were playing in a fog." 
The Irish offense ber.ame silent in the middle of the game. In the second and third quarters, the Trojans out gained the lri.sh 254-7 in total offense. 
Notre Dame started out hot. Irish quarterback Tony Rice silenced the USC crowd when he hit Rocket {small on a play that j1ickcd up 55 yards and a first down for the Irish. 
Notre Dame got its first points on tho board on the next possession. Rice scam­pered 65 yards to put the Irish ahead 7 ­0. 
"I said, Tm not going to let this one guy take me down,'" Rice said about tho play. "I just beat him to the sideline." 
Notre J)ame soliditfod its lead when Mark Green scored off a two-yard run late in the first quarter. After this, the Trojans dominated the play. 
The only th.ing stopping the Trojans from taking the win away from the Irish were the turnovers. 
"We were so close," fleisman hopeful Peete said. "To have someone come into your stadium when you're so close and take from you it hurts. The seniors on this team never beat Notrn Dame and we have to live with that for the resi of our lives." 
With this victory, Notre Dame proved that this '88 squad was ready to take its place in the record books. The team firmed up its bowl picture, securing the Fiesta bowl to claim its national title. 
Players like Rice, Watters and Ismail showed why they are vital parts of Notre Dame's football history. 
Nothing symbolized the campaign more than the pounding of Notre Dame's fiercest rival in the midst of a storied season, saving the best for last. 



I}. ...
eei~~19"!Lfkkt Pizza/­
/Kick off fi{r ND Football 
~ I} Pa(Ja Predicts 


~ NOTRE DAME 30 
~ ~ usc24 
We wish Coach Davie, His si,ff, and the Team success in u::.J"®" their 1?,;PB''i~npaign! £5U:" ~[lCr".\7/Jii) ~till~TI TI tltl Dine-In a .. _ .. ~at ND Store ~t11] ~ti~;]~(1827 ~ Bend Ave.) and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 2-Liter size now available! 
r----r--,
I SIrl,,$ I 
I 14" ,' :J;t(ks, I 
I /2 /,., , I 
1

I . :ooo I
L _____ .J 


Visa/Mastercard Accepted 

Tuesday, November 24, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM 

THE DAILY TROJAN
IRISH EXCHANGE 
uses DAI LY NEWSPAPER 
RECORD: 9-1 RECORD: 7-4 
A.P RANKING: 9 A.r. RANKING: UNRANKED
THE EDGE 
Quarterbacks -Even 

It will be a battle of the freshmen with Jarious Jackson out for With one of the three finalists for the Butkus award on their .--~'--four weeks. Since USC's true freshman Carson Palmer took roster, the Trojans have given opposing offenses fits. But Chris 
• :.·. ~....

t _ , "". over the starting role, the Trojan's_ offense ha~ co~si~tently Claiborne has a less-than-impressive supporting cast, which 
_.,~ improved. Freshman Arnaz Battle 1s not back in his finest forces the middle linebacker to stray outside sometimes. Notre · -form due to the shoulder injury sustained against Baylor. Dame's senior-laden linebacking corps doesn't normally steal an Battle will split quaterbacking duties with Eric Chappell. headlines, but it gets the job done. 
I 
Running Backs -ND 


Denson continues to break records left and right, and the senior A major reason the Trojans are ranked fifth in the nation in shows no signs of slowing down. Emotions are high in the Irish passing defense and 20th in scoring defense is their secondary.
( 
backfield, as Denson plays his final regular-season game for the Senior preseason all-American Daylon Mccutcheon leads the I Blue and Gold. USC's Chad Morton has a unique versatility, but way at cornerback, and three of the team's top five tacklers lacks the pure running back mentality. reside in the defensive backfield. The Irish boast a deep and\ talented group of safeties, but the corners are still wet behind 
__... the ears. 

Receivers • USC 
---· ,:u:1~:;;im~,~1·1:~~rn,·~ 1.1,~i•·· -· 
!·• 


Lots of depth at receiver makes USC adeep threat every time the If the game comes down to afew points, Adam Abrams is solid ball is in the air. In R. Jay Soward, the Trojans have alegitimate from beyond 40 yards. Jim Sanson's confidence has returned, all-America candidate who scores aTD every 6.1 times he but asking for another game-winner may be too much. The Irish touches the ball. Malcolm Johnson and Bobby Brown are return game is ready to break out behind Joey Getherall and consistent, but the Irish need Javin Hunter or another young Tony Driver, but the Trojans have proven talents in Soward and receiver to prove himself as aplaymaker. Morton. 
\ 

,)II,,..:::~::~~l~~j 
Even without Jerry Wisne, the Irish line has given the backs This time Davie is the veteran, while Hackett is still readjusting gaping holes through which to run, and provided Jackson plenty to the college game. Entering the final regular season game, of time to make something happen. The Trojans have size on the Davie's been there, done that. line, but lack the mobility to protect Palmer or spark big gains out of the backfield. 
Defensive Line .. Even 
Both units have been successful at stopping the run, but the Once again the Irish have a lot riding on the regular season 
Trojans lack size in comparison to the Irish line. USC does finale. The seniors sure don't want to end their careers where make up for any weaknesses with an edge in experience, but they began them. Remember the 1995 opener against Notre Dame has more at stake. In recent weeks both teams Northwestern? have ironed out some consistency problems. and come up with big plays. 
By VALERIE MENDOZA 
Daily "li·oj,111 Assistant Sports Editor 
Tho last linw USC wiclli rnceivor H . .lay Soward rmiwmbnrs fnding this bad was IO y1•,u·s ago -his second year playing l'oothall. 
"I was 1wrvow-; about catching punls an<I thnv kickl'd it lO nm." Soward said. "I l'aught it, but thPn I fumblnd the ball and thn otlmr toam µkkPd it up for a toucl1­down. Mv dad was the coach and ho ynllnd al ino. Tho next titn(J I wont back in tlw gaum, I wmil in and caught anoth· or punt and ran it all tho way down until some guy hit mn hard. 
"My dad folt had about ynlling at me narlinr art(•r lw saw nw crying. It's boen my thinking nvor since th(lll, that if I lllPSS up, I havn to go in and make somn­thing happ<'n." 
But thal's nothing compan1d tu what tho junior has go_nn through this ym,.r. 
Wfrnn Faul llackett was hired as USC's lwad football coach, he brought with him a snt of' rules ho wanted tho team to kt>up. But Soward, aloug with sal'ely Darnell Lacy, did not meet. the teams' arnclomic standards and Hackett was not goi11)( to rnaku an oxception for any play­er. including tlrn star receiver. Their pun­ishnwnt included suspension [rom spring drills, and oven though Soward brought his grades up, the suspPnsion includnd silting out the scasou opnner. 
llackott made his point. Soward lcarnml his lesson, but it came at a price. 
i\lthough, sitting out was tough for Soward, the hardnst part was the disap­pointment he brought his family because of' thn suspnnsion, particularly his father, llodrwv. 
"I dicln't want to be around my family bncause I fnlt like I had let them down," Soward said. "It was very hard on me. But it was hanlcr on my father because he worked so hard in bringing me up and trying to teach m,~ rnsponsibility. H hurt rnn to sne my father hurt." 
Soward did not call or go home for two 
months i11 thn spring. His younger broth­
l'f told Soward thf1ir fatlrnr was hurt. But 
his l'aUwr said that in the end. he knew 
his son would do 1he right thing. Soward 
returned home last May and was deter­
mined to make things right again. 
"I think It Jay was a lilt.le hard on him­

self," Sowurd's father, Rodney, said. "I 
know that he feH that what ho did was 
against. nverything I had stood for: 
rcsponsibmty. comrnitment and taking 
.earn or business.' But l understand that f'Ven as a man, you make mistakes." 
This season has not turned out how the 

Sowards had hoped. Although Soward is 
still considered to be a big scoring threat, 
ho's been frustrated ihe last three 
ga111os, having a combined five pass 
receptions without any touchdowns. 
"I haven't had tho ball in my hands i.n a long time," Soward said. "I've forgotten what it's like to scorn a touchdown. Sometimes I'm wide open and the ball doesn't come my way. And it's really not tho defenses. it's jusl trying to get the timing down with [freshman quarterbar.k Carson Palmer].~ 
Soward said that he and Palmer are 

tight off tho field, and once they got the 
timing right on the field, they'll be 
unstoppable. 
"That's my boy,·· Soward said of Palmer, "I call him 'little man' because he has a man's role on the field ·even· though he's so young." 
ttut the two have not had a chance to work on timing due to an ankle injury Soward suffered during the Stanford game. 
"Not playing is like working, being committed to football, practicing all sum­mer and then not getting paid," Rodney said. 
Soward is waiting on that check. 

Born Rodney Jay Soward, he grew up in the Inland Empire, about an hour east of Los Angeles. not far from where his rather was a well-known high school ath­lete in San Bernardino. But the elder Soward had to grow up early, and life's responsibilities took over his profession­al football dreams. 
"I wanted better for my children." Rodney Soward said. "I grew up without a rather around. That's why early on I was strict on B.. Jay. I feh that if I pushiid him to excel and had a slructmed envi­ronment, he would be sucecssful. 
··sometimes I would get critieism, even from my mom, that I was too hard on him. Even though I was persistent in get­ting H. Jay to undorstand what it meant to be a man. l give him credit for any suc­cess he has had becaus<l it's his own will to excel that driw1s him." 
It was apparent early on that Soward was a gifted athlete. Rodney says that Soward was always drivnn and had r.on­lidem;e to win. 
"Sports gave R. Jay structure," Hodney said. "They occupied his time and hi.s mind. It taught him the basic concepts of lil'e. To have responsibility and work with others. To do your part for the team. And even as a little kid he was confident. When he talks, that's confidence, not boasting or bragging. There's a diffcr­encf' and great athletes have that." 
Life around the Soward household con­sisted of school, football and church for thfl four r.hildren. 
"R. Jay always knew that my expecta­tions of him were to hold up his end t:in the field -to function at your position," H.odncy said. "\-\'hen it's time to play bull., we take it serious. He's a product of a football fanatical family. I'd bring home tapes of Gale Sayers, O.J. Simpson, who­ever. If we weren't watching football we were playing it." 
The football environment kept-him away from the streets, where many of his childhood friends wound up. 
"Sports was the only thing that could keep me out of that environment," Soward said. 
Two years later, he came to GSC as an unknown wide receiver because Fontana High was known for their running game, not for passing. Soon after. Soward's name bncanrn sy11onymo11s with spnnd and big plays. 
''I'vn nnver playnd in a l'oot.ball t.oam wlrnre I wasn't a contributor." Soward said. "I don't just want to bo on tho root­ball tnam just to say I played at USC. I want tn do sonrnt.hing to know nm and I want µnoplc to know my toumnwtns for the way we play. I wunl to bn tlw best in nvnrything l do. That's my mnntality." 
As Soward grew oldm. his indepnn­dm1ce and mwd to do things his way clashed with his faUrnr·s idoals. 
"Somelimes I toll my wil'n, 'I don't understand him,' and slw says. 'I IH 's just like you,"' Hodney said. 
"We arn t1xactly alike," Soward said agreeing with his father. "Wo're always right, 1rnvnr wrong, and wo'ro go.ing to do what wn want to do. II havn bnnnl an indnpendent person my wholn lifo. My parents, tlrny wero strict on nHl but I did everything on my own and I do <wnry­thing on my own now -all are my deci­sions." 

For the first two ynars ol' collogn, Soward did do what Im wanted. That struetured environment Hodney had worked hard to give Soward was missing under former coach John Hobinson. 
Even now. while Hodn<~y is no further than a phone call away. ready to give his son advice, Soward for tho most part relies on himsnll' to make docisions. 
"l initialed this mentality of. 'I'm not taking cam of adults,"' Hodnoy said. "Once you're a man, you need to be abln to make your own decisions. And then I ask 'why isn't he calling home mom often?' I know it's just that l'vo madn him so indApendent." 
H.odncy taught his son how to catch and throw. I le taught him how got up after life's disappointmnnts by having spiritual faith. lie taught him to be accountable for mistakes, and stay com­mitted. 
All those lessons he hopns his son remmnbers because hn can't be next to him each time he makes a decision. 


page 4 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 24, 1998 
Senior tri~captain Kory Minor's .presence on and off the field has lead the Irish for the past four years 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Sporu Editor 

Football players are defined in moments.. 
It could be the ability to engineer a two-minute dril1 to capture victory from the jaws of defeat, shredding 300-pound offensive lineman to bury the opposing team's quarterback and end a scoring threat. Or it could be a pep talk in the huddle to raise the level of your teammates. 
For senior tri-captain Kory Minor his defining moment probably didn't come with a sack or an interception. 
It probably came on a basketball court when he didn't make a play or say a word. 
It probably came when his mother, Kim spoke at the LSU pep rally Friday night. 
She told the packed" Joyce Center crowd stories of Kory's experience and growth at Notre Dame and how the frequency of his phone calls back home to Laverne, Calif., never slowed since that first call all freshmen make when they're homesick and are mis­erab]e and wonder why they ever came to South Bend. 
Minor stood by Ws mother's side as she spoke. maybe a little embarrassed but filled with joy and emotion. 
"It meant so much to me to have her there," Minor said. "To have her speak and voice her opinion on how she felt about me coming here and about me leaving. With if being my last home game and last pep rally, it meant the world to me." 
The ncxL day 1\linor produced more 
typical defining moments. Those 
moments came in tho form of 12 tack­
les and two sacks. 

The drive and the inspiration to cre­
ate those defining moments came 
from more than just a desire to push 
his team's record to 9-1. 

"I didn't tell her till afterwards but I 
played that game for her," Minor said. 
"We"re very close. We're like brother 
and sister really. We talk about any­
thing you can think of, if she has a 
problem or if I have a problem. We 
have a gi:,!:lat relationship. She's laid a 
great foundation for me to develop 
myself and relationships wHh .oth!:lr 
people." · 

Ever since coming to Notre Dame in 
the fall of 1995, the USA Today defen­
sive player of the year made his 
impact felt. In his first three years, 
Minor averaged more than five sacks 
and 61 tackles ayear while starting in 
33 of 34 games. . 
Then senior year rolled around. 
Much was written about Minor and he 
earned pre-season accolades, expect­
ing a completely ·dominating year and · even a possible Butkus award, But ankle arid-toe injuries slowed . the lintbacker who relies on the 
quickness and speed that those 
injuries robbed from him. ~inor even 
missed the first game of his career 
against Michigan State. 

"It was difficult because I've,Jlever 
been hurt before," Minor said. "I had 
to stay real positive and to keep my 
faith in God and keep working hard to 
get back. I think the worst part was 
being dressed and being oul there and not being able to contribute to the team, v\'hether we won or lost I like to be out th.ere to do something." 
Even though Minor could not bring his physical skills to the football field in East Lansing, the energetic Minor could not just sit and watch and his attitude was present. 
"I tried to bo a factor as far as try­ing to give some encouragement and positive attitude," Minor said. "But, anytime you're not playing and you lose like that it's tough." 
Minor was back in the starting line­up against Purdue but he wasn't the same Kory Mw.gr.Iri,sh fans have been accustomed to seefog)But just having No. 4 on the field made a difference and after more typical Minor games against Navy and LSU, the senior looks to lead Notre Dame back to the ranks qfithe elite in colleg~ football. 
"It's starting to go pretty well now as far as getting back into it," Minor said. "Later on in the season I started to feel like my old self and make more plays. That just comes with faith and belief and just having fun out there." 
'Tm proud gf the way he's fought back from that injury," head coach Bob Davie said. "He provides a lot of leadership for 11s and he provides a big play capability. It's encouraging to see him play hishest football this year late in the season." 
Sacks, tackles for :a los~ and even bruised quarterbacks are· easy to see in a box ·score or on television. But those are the things that will make Minor so irreplaceable when he. fin­ishes his career. 
"We're going to miss a lot of things about Kory." Davie said. "We're going to miss all those things he added to this football team and this program. You may be able "to replace Kory Minor on the field. But off the field he's going to be a tough guy to replace because he brings so many intangi­bles to the program." 
"He's really what Notre Dame foot­ball stands for;" de.fensive coordinator Greg Mattison said. "Kory Minor is Notre Dame football and that's how we -want our kids to. be. He always talks about that. He always does it and that's what's neat. Camaraderie and character, you can talk about it all you want and it doesn't do any­thing, and he does it." 
Being a poster boy f9r what Notre Dame football might sound like a far cry for someone who grew up in the land of· Troy,. but Minor was ~always attracted to Notre Dame. 
"The memories I have are watching on Notre Dame on TV and always see­ing those gold helmets," Minor said. "It always really struck me I was like 'Mom, look at the gold helmets.' I had where it was or what it was about or what Notre Dame stood for or even the mascot but those Gold helmets always attracted to me." 
"They (USC! recruited me hard but I always liked Notre Dame and I knew that I wanted to go away to school," Minor said. "I wanted to grow up on my own and learn my own values and become independent. That ·s the rea­son I chose Notre Dame." 
Minor and Notre Dame iurned out making more sense than peanut but­ter and jelly as his impact on Notre Dame has been more than significant. 
"I think he's had a great career on thP field, but he's done so much of this program off the field,'' Davie said. "He's ~een a huge success at Notre Dame. 
"I try to be a role model in the sense of on and offthe; field and I try to do 
things right," Minor said. "I do feel a 
responsibility. Especially being a cap­
tain and a senior I feel it's your 
responsibility to be a leader to 
younger players to be a role model as 
well as to keep the team together. 
"For us or any team to be successful 
you have to have leadership and have 
to have a team that genuinely cares 
for each other," Minor continued. 
"You have a team that's unselfish and 
discipline and really puts the team in 
focus first, I try to stress that with the 
team" 
"He's such an upbeat and positive 
person," Davie said. "I think he raises 
the level of people around him just by 
his personality. He's a guy that the 
coaches always look forward to seeing 
every day and he provides a spark." 
· "That's just me always smiling, 
always chipper and always trying to 
brighten someone's day," Minor said. 
''I guess l kind of bring brightness to 
the team but that's just my personali­
ty whether things are going bad, 
tremendously terrible or if things are 
going well. I'm always going to bring 
some kind of spirit or glow that things 
maybe aren't as bad as they seem. 
That's just me and the way I do things 
and approach life." 
That approach ca,n do more than 
serve as a role model for younger 
teammates. Young people can look to 
Minor, who will earn his degree in 
Marketing this December. 
'Tm the first one to stay after and 
sign autographs for 2 or 3 hours, 
that's just my personality," Migor 
said. "I think that's what being in our 
position as athletes that people look 
up to are expected to do, and I enjoy 
it. I'm not selfish. I'm a caring, con­
siderate person and that's through my 
mom raising me and the values that 
she's instilled in me and it's just car­
rying on." 
The coaching staff who asked Kim 
Minor to speak at the pep rally cer­
tainly understand where Minor's con­
sistent, positive outlook comes from. 
"From my perspective, Kory has 
always been the same, he's always 
been ultra positive," Davie said. 
"When you're around his mom you 
see why. She's a very positive person." 
With a 9-1 record and a trip to a 
major bowl just one victory away, 
Minor doesn't have to find the silver 
lining as his team has an opportunity 
as golden as those helmets Minor 
used to admire as a kid. 
"Right now I couldn't ask for any­
thing better," Minor said. 
Minor even gets the opportunity to 
return home this weekend as the Irish 
look to end their two-game losing 
streak against USC. 
"I said to myself, 'I have two home 
games left, in the stadium and back 
home in California."' Minor said. 
"That's going to be fun. We're looking 
forward to play a team like USC." 
That victory could help to fulfill some of Minor's dreams as a young­ster as he will don his golden helmet for the last time in the regular season. . 'Tm very happy and very excited," Minor said. "When you dream to come to Notre Dame you're envisions are Tm going to go 11 or 12-0 and I'm going to have that big National Championship ring.' Things didn't go very well for us. Now things are going well for us, we need to keep things in perspective, keep having fun and hope positive things happen for us. It means a lot to me right now and I'm 
enjoying every minute of it." 
Judging from her speech at the pep 
rally Friday, Kim Minor may be enjoy­
ing it even more. 




Tuesday, November 24, 1998 
·}J 
W1TITI: Ofl.r1fil: f'(;.fff:firHJ:
I ~l!L &  IV! ~! 11~ t I W3(;.~(I  
~1.1L i'  
~q,  I  
Ql;L.  't.-H •  
~L  ,._i:· t~  
~[.  {I, fl  
l :t  ~ciitiW.i·~  
&(l•fl  
ul LISG  

2ND 
SEASON AT NOTRE DAME 
Bob Davie 

CARfER RECORD: 16-7 AT NOTRE DAME: 16-7 AGAINST SOUTHERN CAL: 0-1 

ROSTER 

No.  Name  Pos.  HI.  WI.  YR  
1  Drk,• Cnvp,·r  FS  6-J  2.21  JR  
2  Bmny Cuilb,•.iux  SS  6-2  215  SR  
3  Arruta lldtl!c•  QB  6-l  195  FR  
4  Kory Minor  OLB  6-1  245  SR  
~  A'J•ni Sanders  FS  5-ll  191  SR  
6  M,1kolm Johnsun  SE  6-5  215  SR  
7  Jarious J,1ckson  QB  Ml  220  SR  
K  Erk Ch,,pp,•ll  QB  6-4  225  JR  
K  Anthony Ur,,nnan  OLB  5-Jl  203  JR  
~  R,1ki Nelson  FL  5-11  178  JR  
1fl  Dt•veron llarper  CIJ  5-11  11!7  JR  
11  fay J<>hn"'->n  SE  Ml  187  JR  
12  Tony Fisher  RB  6-1  202  FR  
n  Jimmy Frid•y  ILB  6-2  236  SR  
14  David Givms  WR  6-0  214  FR  
l~  Cliflortl Jcffm•on  DB  5-9  165  FR  
11,  f<>hn Shingler  TE  6-1  250  SR  
l7  llunt,•r Smith  P  6-2  218  SR  
IK I 9  h>ev C :eth,•rall Ji in' San•on  SE K  5-7 5-9  172 1K9  so JR  
20  C.ulo~ Pit.•rn•-Antoinc LB  6-2  240  FR  
21  Javln I lunt,•r  WR  5-11  172  FR  
22 23  Jay Vickt•rs Autry Denson  TB TB  6-11 5-10  215 202  JR SR  
24  Ty Cood<'  Cll  5-11  192  SR  
2S  Tony Driv~r  FS  6-2  214  so  
2b  1,_., l.alavcttc  SS  5-IO  198  JR  
27  Bobbie fi<>w,ird  !LB  5-10  232  SR  
28  Donald Dyh,  !JB  5-10  11!6  FR  
2M  Mih Grady  FS  5-l!  200  JR  
2'I  !ustin Smith  Cfl  6-2  188  so  
JO  Roeky Boimtm  DB  6-3  222  FR  
31  Eric Himan  CB  5-11  179  SR  
J2  Tt•rrann~ Jlnw~rd  RB  6-1  181  RB  
32  Justin Meko  SS  5-11  209  SR  
33  fam1<• Spenn,r  HI  6-1  245  SR  
31  Phil Sicus<>  CB  5-11  IIIB  SR  
J,1  Ronnie Nick!.  1LB  6-1  2-14  JR  
Jli  Di1v1d Miller  K-P  5-11  177  FR  
Jo  Jasnnt Vukl'lich  FB  6-0  224  so  
.lb  Tom l.opit•nski  FB  6-2  240  FR  
lb  Tim Lynrh  CB  5-9  177  SR  
17  Run l~r,wl  CR  6-0  198  so  
.17  Kt•vin Rict•  SS  6-0  212  SR  
lX  llrnck Williams  CB  5-10  l!!'I  so  
W  Anthony IJl'nman  Olli  6-1  231  so  
.w  Chris l<'<k  S.~  5-10  195  JR  
40  Ja'lon Murray  FB  6-I  2-'i4  so  
40  flrl•nd,m hirrt..'11  JLB  5-10  220  JR  
-11  Jo,• l',•riw  01.11  6-2  231  JR  
42  Antwomt• WC'Uingttm NG  6-0  261  JR  
41  l lu11h Holmes  !Lil  6-1  212  so  
-1-4  Cr,mt lrorn,  O1.H  6-5  2-06  so  
4,  Ju1.•y Co,,dspeed  F8  6-0  241  JR  
4h  Kl'Yin Dansby  OUJ  6-1  228  so  
4h  Bt•njami11 Rnbin~on  TE  6-2  241  SR  
47  Mike McNair  FB  6-0  221  FR  
·IH  John,1thi1n l lt•bert  SE  5-ll  202  JR  
49  Jot.' 'fhnma~  ILB  6-2  227  SR  
511  David 1',1ym•  0G  6-1  287  SR  
'.\1  1yn..·u Hnrriimn  LB  6-2  238  FR  
5J  Lc1mont Bry,1nt  DE  6-3  258  SR  
fi-1  Luke Prtit~out  OT  6-6  300  SR  
,5  Jim Jones  (JG  6-3  295  JR  
,H  Bn.-nd,m O'Connor  OG  6-2  292  JR  
i,2  C.1st'Y R<Jbin  OT  6-6  300  so  
;,J  Mih Tribe  11.U  5-111  220  JR  
M  john MNandi  C  6-3  292  JR  
hb  jW Jord.m  C  1,-(J  289  so  
t,7  !ohn W,,gn,•r  OT  6-7  30()  SR  
M  M1Ht Bn.•nni1n  OT  6-7  295  JR  
h4  Mike G.1ndy  o::;  6-4  296  JR  
70  ·nm Ri,lder  o::;  6-7  298  SR  
71  J,•rry Wi,n,•  OG  6-7  298  SR  
72  Ry,,n 'icarula  01  6-4  3IO  FR  
71  f<,ff R<>t•hl  OL  6-4  287  FR  
74  Rob Mow\  C  6-5  29:i  JR  
7~  John fo1sdale  OT  6-5  295  so  
71  llrnd Wilh,1ms  IJF  6-5  Z!lo  JR  
71!  f,mlan Black  OI  o-5  310  FR  
'JQ  Mike lfosenth,11  OT  6-7  300  SR  
Hl  Ll"\VI~ J);,wson  Fl  6-(l  !KS  JR  
ll1  Patrick Rc•ynolds  WR  5-11  179  FR  
11-1  ( ,,,r,1ld Mt1rflan  TE  6-3  263  FR  
K~  Antwon hint~  NC  6-3  280  SR  
H5  M,,rk Ruh•  WR  6-2  218  SR  
Kl,  Dan O'LParv  TE  6-5  256  JR  
K7  J,1bari I lnll,;way  TE  6-3  2~4  so  
!IX  llnbby llrown  Fl  6-3  1Q4  SR  
/14  John Day-Owrns  TE  6-3  228  FR  
®  f.anct.' l.q,;rPe  NC  6-1  2Q2  JR  
ill  Noah Vtml lot1k~[lrtickL1rDE  6-2  245  JR  
tl2  Ad,m, "libhlL'  K '  5-11  !RJ  FR  
Y1  llj Scott  DI'  1,-4  282  JR  
~4  Andy Wi,m•  NG  6-3  2!l5  so  
95  Rvan Robt>rls  UJ  6-1  2-15  FR  
Wi  ~•un M,drnn  DL  6-3  262  FR  
97  Kurt Voller,  DT  6-7  280  so  
48  Anlhllny Weaver  DL  6-3  249  FR  
98  Eric Cla"-"  OT  6-4  235  JR  
'l'J  J,,..,n Chini.;  DE  6-3  280  JR  

The Observer/John Daily 

Junior Eric Chappell could see his first signif­icant playing time this weekend against USC. 
The LSU win proved how lethal the Notre Dame quarterback could be as Jarious Jackson accounted for over 350 yards of offense in a career day. 
Eric Chappell and Arnaz Battle are now thrust into lhe spollighl and under the pressure of trying to snap a two­game losing streak against USC as well as trying to get the Irish intu a major howl. 
To make things more complicated, 
Battle is still recovering from a shoulder 
injury he suffered against Baylor. 
TAILBACK 
7-Morton 
35-Papad~ 
FULLBACK ~ 
39-Puwell 
.,~~ 
RIGHT TACKLE r 
72-Wefcll 
74-Bowen 
! END 
, eaver hing 
The Observer/John Daily 

Arnaz Battle is still shaking off a shoulder injury but will be ready for the Trojans. 
Davie said both quarterbacks will play against a Trojan defense lead by Butkus award finalist Chris Claiborne. 
Expect USC to give Battle ur Chappell plenty of pressure as the Trojans boast one of the better defensive backfields in the countrv behind all-American candi­date Daylon Mccutcheon. 
The offensive line and receivers will have to give the Irish quarterback help and Denson will look to have a big day on the ground to take the pressure of the passing game. 
CORNERBACK 
10-ffarper
24-Goode 
IGHTENO 
77-Wllllams 
85-Jonos 
. , . ..:. 
" /,· ...:\ 
\ 

ru . I. 
~'4!~ 

._ 'j.,.)~~
..

:· ' 
ci I <._; 
,LJ 
FREE SAFETY 
I-Cooper
5·Sanders 

SAM
TIGHT ENO 

·. fa 13-Fr
!1·H1rrl1 

-' ~34-Nlc
89-ford 

,,;/ --~-~-i:. ---~; 
/ I ' 
r "'-.: , 
RUSH 53-Bryanl , 

,44-lrons ·~:.... CORNERBAGK 38-Willlams '­15-Jatterson 
TAILBACK 23-Den,on 12-Fisher ~ --~33-Spencer RIGHT GUARO 45·Goods(lff(I 69-Gaudy 55·Jones RIGHT TACKLE 79-Aosentttal 76-Teasdale T!GHTENO 87·Holluwar 85-0'Leary  .··  RIGHT END 44-Abdul-Mallk 56-Larty ....~ '  CORNERBACK &-Simmons 13·Haslip  
.... )_ STRONG SAFETY 43-Peariall 31-0halete  


REGON S 
t Florida S 
RIZONA S 
1sr SEASON AT USC 
Paul Hackett 
CAREER RECORD: 17-24-1 AT USC: 7·4 AGAINST NOTRE DAME: 0-0 

ROSTER 
No. Name  Poe.  Ht.  Wt.  Yr.  
l  Daylon McCutrhmn  CB  5-11  !HO  SR  
2  Darnell Lacy  S  1\-3  195  so  
2  Rod Perry  WR  5-lll  11!0  FR  
3  Billv Miller  WR  ~-4  220  SR  
4  Ma;k Cusano  LB  6-2  22S  SR  
5  Jason Umm.1s  QB  6-4  220  FR  
6  Antuan Simmons  CB  5-11  185  SO  
7  Chad Mortan  TB  5-8  185  JR  
8  !lahard Cook  S  6-0  205  SR  
9  Quincy Wouds  QB  6-1  185  SR  
lO  Jason Ste,•1  LB  6-4  220  SO  
11  Mike Van Raaphorst  QB  6-5  220  SO  
13  K,•n Haslip  CB  5-111  174  SR  
14  Prentice Hill  CB  5-8  180  SR  
15  Carson Pa1m,•r  QIJ  6-4  205  FR  
16  John Fox  QB  6-4  215  JR  
17  Darryl Knight  LB  6-3  215  l'R  
17  Matt Dalton  QB  6-2  185  FR  
18  R Jay Soward  WR  ,i-11  175  .JR  
19  Adam Abrams  PK  ,i-9  185  SR  
19  Jason D'Autermont  WR  6-(l  175  FR  
21  Malaefou MacK,,n2ie TB  M)  220  so  
21  Braw Shots  BR  5-H'  163,  •NP  
. 22 .  [)avid t;il,s,•1  Lll-5  o-2  215·  JR  
23  Tanqueray Clark  CB  Ml  lHO  JR  
24  Frank Strong  T8  6-2  19:\  FR  
25  Mike Bastianelli  WR  6-1  195  SR  
25  Little BigDrinker  CKS  5-3  112  )CU  
26  Eric Reese  CB  5-11  2(){1  FR  
27  Jabari Jacksrm  T8  6-2  225  JR.  
28  Charlie Landrigan  FB  6-(J  220  FR  
29  Frank Carter  S  6-0  190  JR  
29  Stands With Mug  BR  5-3  112  SLU  
30  Sultan M,-Cullough  TB  5-11  175  FR  
30  Cameron MyronnwiczLB  6--2  205  SO  
31  Ifeanyi Ohalete  S  6-2  215  SO  
34  Zeke• Moreno  LB  6-3  240  so  
35  PPtrosPapadkis  TB  6-!  215  JR  
36  ChrisReyes  S  6-0  205  JR  
36  Miguel Marco  WR  5-11  1110  FR  
37  David Bell  PK  6-0  195  SO  
38  Mike MacGillivray  K  5-IO  2U5  FR  
38  Danny Bravo  S  Ml  205  SO  
39  Marvin Powell Ill  Fil  6-2  235  SR  
4()  Miguel Fletcher  T8  6-4  2(KJ  FR  
41  Antoinnl' Harris  CB  5-8  1110  JR  
41  Rocky Brown  WR  Ml  175  JR  
42  Kris Richard  CB  Ml  175  FR  
43  Grant Pearsall  S  6-1  210  SR  
44  Sultan Abdul-Malik  DE  1,.3  225  SO  
45  Mike !',,!lard  l.!l  6-ll  220  FR  
46  Ted lacenda  FB  6-()  2-10  SO  
47  Chad Pierson  FR  6-1  230  FR  
47  Jahi Johnson  TB  5-7  200  SR  
47  John Mor~an  S  6-2  195  JR  
48  Urennan Ochs  FR  6-2  225  SO  
49  Ryan Shapiro  FB  M)  2-10  SO  
49  Picm• Zado  S  6-3  205  SO  
5()  Eric D,•nmon  C  6-2  260  so  
51  Henry Wallace  Lil  1\-2  210  FR  
52  S Abdul-Shaheed  OT  6-4  26()  SO  
53  Armand Holland  Lil  6-l  225  FR  
54  Anthony Dayle  Lil  6-4  220  FR  
55  Chris Clairbnmc  LB  6-3  25ll  JR  
56  Lawrence Larry  DE  6-3  240  SR  
57  Aaron Williams  DT  6-4  270  JR  
58  Michael Walbridge  C  h-3  275  FR  
59  Rocky Seto  Lil  5-1 l  2()0  JR  
61  Matt McShane  C  6-5  285  fR  
62  David Prntchard  OC-C  6-5  290  SR  
67  Robby WMd  OG  6-5  2so  rn  
bll  Brent McCaffn.')'  OT  b-5  270  SO  
69  Zach Wilson  OC  6-4  270  FR  
70  Donta Kendrick  OC  6-3  :l(X)  JR  
71  Travis Claridge  0G  6-1,  311l  JR  
72  Matt Welch  OT  6-6  295  SO  
72  T<>dd Kencl,•y  DT  6~1  260  JR  
73  Derek Graf  OT  6-4  2(,(1  FR  
74  Ken BowL'l'I  OT  6-R  335  SR  
75  Faa,>sca Mailo  OT  6-5  3:10  SO  
71  TrL·vor Rtibc.•rt:;  0G  tt-l  305  SO  
78  Rom'l~ D~1ugfos  OT  6~7  3()5  SR  
79  Jason Grain  0G  t,-5  310  JI(  
80  l.arrv l'.irkcr  WR  6-2  200  SR  
81  Ant,;ine 11,mis  TE  f>-4  245  SO  
82  Gurjot lJhaliw•I  TE  6-3  235  SR  
H3  Troy Garn,·r  WR  1,-3  200  SO  
84  P•t Swanson  TE  6-4  2.15  IR  
11.~  Scutt Hubter  Tt  6-4  2-15  FR  
H6  Windn•II Hnws  WR  6-0  2(){J  JR  
H6  Gerard Khorozian  TE  t,-4  245  JR  
!!7  Kevin Md.du~hlin  WR  b-3  2(15  SO  
118 Stanley Guyneos  WR  t,-2  19.,  SO  
K9  Lonni,• ford  TE  6-3  230  FR  
90  Ryan Nielson  DE  6-5  Hi  FR  
91  llnbhy DcM,ir•  DE  l>-4  235  FR  
1/2  Kori Dickerson  'OE  1,-4  220  FR  
93  Matt Childers  DE  h-4  265  JR  
94  Darren Collins  DT  6-3  26ll  JR  
95  Marr Ma~ick  ITT  1,.5  280  SR  
96  Adam Rendon  l'K  h•2  211;;  SR  
98  SteveDavis  !YI'  o-2  280  SR  
99  Ennis Davis  DT  6-4  295  SO  


page 6 The Observer• IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 24, 1998 


Irish making their own luck in winning streak 
M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Ma1y's Editor 

Some would say they've been lucky; others might say desLiued. 
After a season of heart-stopping, breath-taking, nail-biting wins, the 9-1 Irish realize that a they could just as eas­ily be 5-5. In a year of last-second wins. Notre Dame fans have had to sweat out the ftnales of four games that have come within a touchdown or less. 
The Irish put fears lo rest by exerting momentous and memorable efforts to claim victory. 
Against Purdue. it was Tony Driver's observant eye and quick hands that led to two, game-winning interceptions. Jim Sanson's boot through the endzone con­quered Army by one point. To withstand Boston College 31-26, ii meant an unyielding defense in the final minute and most recently, offensi\'e perseverance to edge by LSU by three points. 
"We've come to expect close games," said senior split end Malcolm Johnson. "We're just a good football team and a good football team always finds a way to win. 
"We've beaten quality teams and played opponents who always gave us their best effort.~ he said. "In 10 yea.rs, we'll look back at the '98 season and it's not going to matter if we won by one point or 50." 
Whether it's karma, quality or charac­ter, the Irish have stayed true to their motto: "The team that won't be beat, can't be beat." 
USC would love to be the team to dis­prove the Irish theory and trip up a team who has teetered on the win-loss fence all season. 
With quarterback Jarious Jackson con­verting from team leader to cheerleader against USC, the Irish do not expect to run off with a victory unscathed. 
From four years of battle against the Trojans, the Irish seniors can account first-hand the destruction L'SC can cause. 

"You always expect a close one against USC," said senior offensive guard Tim Ridder. "They're a good team this year and WfJ have to expect their best." 
Although they decimated USC their freshman year in 1995, '96 broug·ht Notre Dame's first Joss in 11 years to the Trojans by the score of a touchdO\\'Il. Last year's painful three-point loss should still be burning in thf' hearts of the Irish. 
In the last four years, Notre Dame has a 1-2-1 record against the bitter rival. 
"It's obviously a great rivalry, probably one of the longest in the nation," Johnson said. "It's going to be a prime-time foot­ball game. It's going to come down to individuals stepping up and making the big contributions." 
Big plays has defined many of the Irish wins this season. By now, Notre Dame should be used to disproving the skeptics and scratching.out "vins. 
They took down Michigan when the odds were stacked against them and have niade their single loss to Michigan State seem like it belonged to a different team. 
Instead of thinking their \\in against the Wolverines was a fluke and hanging their heads after the beating from the Spartans, the Irish looked forward and improved. 
According to Ridder. the near-loss games have actually served as an advan­tage. 
"Additionally, with this many close games, we have the confidence to pull it out," he said. "With the character of our team, we know overall it's going to be all right; we'll be abli:i to fight through what­ever comes our way." 
Still, many will insist that the Irish have had luck on their side. But the Irish can point to numbers and records that no team relying simply on luck could accom­plish. 
Despite sneaking by four opponents, the Irish have outscored their opponents 322­181 and won seven straight games. 
The squad also si.!fmced naysayers by going undofoatcd at home, the first time since 1989. 
Meanwhile, Jarious Jackson, who made only 17 passing attempts last season, burst onto the Irish gridiron. 
Ile has pleasingly stunned on!ookers by bringing back the option football which defines success in Notre Dame football. Jackson has passed for l,n7 yards and rushed for 441 yards. 
Senior Autry Denson will go into Saturday's matchup, having broken two, longstanding Allen Pinkett records and has rushed for 1,130 

yards.  .  
Head  coach  Bob  
Davie  also  has  

proven himself wor­thy, burying his inau­gural 7 -6 season and instilling work ethic and will power in the men on the field. 
"In terms of heart, spirit, soul and com­mitment, it is remarkable since where we were on Dec. 28," Davie said. 
If Davie and the team can beat USC or win a bowl game, he will be the winni­ginst second-year coach in Irish history. Currently, he is tied at nine wins with the legendary Knute Rockne and Dan Devine. 
"From the beginning, he's put it in the players' hands," Johnson said. "He's run the team internally and challenged us." 

To break the record, Davie needs just one win. Whether that victory is by a last­second, Hail Mary pass or a complete shut out is irrelevant to the team who has taken a tight hold, determining the out­come of its season. 
"I guess you can say we're lucky. Maybe someone's looking down on us and help­ing," Ridder said. "But the way we've been playing, we've made our own luck." 
0, ii: d,b.• ... We accept Visa, Mastercard, Discover• only valid @ ablwe location• across from Linebacker• exp. Nov. 31, 1998 GO IRISH' •• BEAT TROJANS  


..,. ' ' 
Tuesday, November 24, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 7 
THE lRlSH INSl DER LOOKS AT THlS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
EYE ON THE NATION 
FOOTBALL GAMES 

Thanksgiving calls for rivalry clashes 
By DEREK BETCHER 
~ mrr., Wri1r1 
Fur fans who clon'1 hungf'r for n•gional foot­bull in Tnxas. (;1,Drgia or Virginia, Lhis wenk­!•nd's coll<lg11 football scl~mluln brings little nwa1 to 1.lw tablP, Pspndally whrn comaparnd to last Wf'Pk's plittPful ol' marquoc malrhups. 
Nmw or the• nation's t11p-livn lmuns play ranknd oppo11Pnts this Thanksgiving w1•nk­nrn.l. lnslPad BCS-lnading loams Tmwosmi (ut l-X VandMbillf. Kunsus Stat!) (nl'l'l and UCLA loffl will lw giving thanks for latn season hnialh1irs. 
Thanksgiving weekend will ol'for an i11L1\nse 111atchup for fans in tho Lorn-i Siar Stat<! as WPII us lhosns f'ullowing ttrn lleisman racn. Sixth-ranknd Tnxas A&M {10-1 l squaros off aginsl 7-:t Tnxas at 11 a.m. on Friday. 
This intrastate rivalry should offor l'aus across tlw nalion a taste ofsonrnthing spncial. Tmrns Iail back Hicky Williams has sncur1id standing 11s tlw l'rontrnnning candid,tln for tlw llcisman Trophy and rrnods just 6:1 yards to ovortako Tonv llorsell's r.arnor record for Division I rushi1{g yardage. 
Williams has ruslwd for 1865 yards and 26 touchdnwns lhis s,iason. Averaging 5.9 yards pm curry and rrnarly l 90 pur game hasn't hurl his llnism,t11 chancns. Friday's matchup and shot at llrn rncord books is Urn kind of' dial11mgn that kept Williams out of' the last y1\ar'i; NFL draft and brought him back to the Longhorns for his senior year. 
Williams will cmlainly face a chullonge when Texas A&M brings its 10-game unbeat­en strnak into Austin. Following an August loss on ihe road to Florida State, the Aggies have bnen unbeatable. Their streak has been highlightnd by a 28-21 win over Nebraska and a 17-14 squeaker pai;t Missouri. A&M did not play last week. 
The Aggios might be temptedto look past this week's game. Thny have already clinched tho right to play unbeaten Kansas State on Dec. 5 for thn Big 12 championship. but need to win Friday to keep pace towards a BCS berth. This simpln but significant fact has not been lost on A&M coach R.C. Slocum. 
"If we can win against Texas, we'll be an 11-1 tnam and we'll go to a good bowl game," he said. 
Ono thing that may have slowed the Aggie's chances was the loss of 900-yard rusher 
KAT 

Texas' Ricky Williams will look to break Tony Dorsett's career rushing record this weekend. 
Dante llall to injury. True freshman Ja'Mar Toombs has lilied in capably, however, with 400 yards and an el'!icient 5.3 yards-per­carry. 
The Williams-led Texas team stands just out of the press rankingsand cannot be expected to play dead for the Aggies. The Longhorns have showed resilience this season after rebounding from a 1-2 start that included losses to UCLA and Kansas State. Now 7-3, the Longhorns' revitalization was highlighted by a 20-16 stunner over Nebraska in Lincoln 
Longhorn coar,h Mack Brown knows his team faces another uphill battle this week against A&M, however. 
"Texas A&M has to be one of the best teams in the Country," he asserted. 
Brown likely won't be asserting anything about the officiating in Friday's game. He was recently reprimanded by Big 12 officials for criticizing the of'ficiating two week ago during Texas' loss to Texas Tech. The next time Brown speaks his mind, he'll be fined $5,000. 

TEAM RECORD POINTS 
1. Tennesse 10-0 1,715 2. Kansas St. 11-0 1,685 3. UCLA 10-0 1,628 4. Florida St. 11-1 1,547 5. Ohio St. 10-1 1,446 6. TexasA&M 10-1 1,417 7. Arizona 10-1 1,326 8. Florida 9-2 1,217 9. Notre Dame 9-1 1,165 10. Wisconsin 10-1 1,098 11. Tulane 10-0 1,000 
12. Georgia 8-2 965 
13. Arkansas 8-2 783
' 

14. Nebraska 8-3 766 

15. Michigan 8-3 714 16. Virginia 8-2 698 17. Georgia Tech 8-2 627 18. Air Force 10-1 604 19. Miami 7-2 559 20. Virginia Tech 8-2 371 21. Syracuse 7-3 297 22. Oregon 8-3 278 23. Penn St. 7-3 233 24. Missouri 7-4 232 25. Mississippi St. 7-3 147 


Thanksgiving will also treat the state of Georgia to a signifi­cant intrastate col­lege football matchup.-Georgia Tech will take its 8-2 record on the road to face 8-2 Georgia in a game with consider­able bowl implica­tions for its partici­pants. 
Twelvth-ranked Georgia has lost only to Tennessee and rlorida and st.ands at second-place in the powerful SEC. Tlw SEC has eight bowl­elligible teams this season, but only seven available bowl openings. so the Bulldogs will b1\ play­ing for their postsoa­son when they take the field 3:30 p.m. on Saturday. 
Georgia is led by running back Olandis Gary and left tackle Matt Stinchcomb, a Lombardi Award finalist. With 132 yards and 2 touch­downs last week. Gary played well in his team's 24-17 vic­tory over Mississippi and may be on a hot strNtk. Bulldog quarter­back Quincy Carter has completed 62 percent of his passes for 2,300 yards and should also be a factor in the game. 
The 17th-ranked Yellow Jackets havn hitched their hopes to a highscoring offense that averages 37 points per game despite llat losses to Boston College and Florida State. Georgia Ter.h had a run of live straight weeks of 40 or more and scored 67 last week. Quarterback Joe Ilamilton has been consis­tent for the Yellow Jackets, but their well­stocked backfield has shouldered most of the offensive load; the Rambling Wreck has three rushers with more than 350 yards. 
Georgia Tech will also be playing for its postseason fortunes. With a 7 -1 conference mark, the Yellow Jackets own a share of the ACC title, but will take a back seat to cochampion Florida State when BCS invita­tions are sent out. 
Miami and Syracuse will battle for the Big East championship when they meet 3:30 p.m. on Saturday. This game has important cam­pus implications, because possible scenarios have the contest's winner facing Notre Dame in a bowl matchup. 
The 19th-ranked Hurricanes have reversed their fortunes even more significantly than the Fighting Irish; last year Miami went 5-6, but stands at 7-2 now. Miami's only two loss­es have been to Plorida State and in overtime to Virginia Tech. 
The Hurricanes are led by linebacker Natn Webster, running back Edgerrin .lames (1,000 yards, 13 TDs) and quarterback Scott Covington (60 percent completion average). Along with a large corps of' receivers. they have helped their team average 39 points pnr game the past. four weeks. 
If Syracuse could beat Miami and win the Big East title, the championship would cap a rollercoaster season for the Orangemen. Syracus lost 34-33 to top-ranked Tennesse in week one, beat Michigan 38-28 the following week and then scored 70 points against Rutgers before floundering against North Carolina State. The team has reboundod to 7 ­3 and again eyes the postseason. 
Syracuse quarterback Donovan McNabb was a preseason Heisman hopeful, but faded out of contention largely because of his team's inconsistency. McNabb will nonetheless be an important factor in the game and has com­piled the statistics to prove· his potency: 20 touchdowns to just four interceptions and a 63 percent completion rate headline his resume. Receiver Kevin Johnson has been McNabb's favorite target with 58 catches for 900 yards and eight touchdowns. 
Enjoy your turkey and watch one of these games to warmup for the best matchup of the week; Saturday night's contest between Notre Dame and use. 
IRI~H cXPERT~ 

Kathleen Lope1. 
Sp1lrt1? Ediror 
NOTRE DAMI: HXAS A&M GEORGIA MIAMI 

Joey Cavato A~sociatc Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME TEXAS GEORGIA SYRACUSE 

Allison Krilla Associate Sports Ed.itnr 
NOTRE DAME TEXAS A&M GEORGIA MIAMI 

Anthony Bianco Assisriant Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME TEXAS GEORGIA SYRACUSE 

Bill Hart 
Assistant Spon~ F.dirnr 
NOTRE DAME TEXAS A&M GEORGIA TECII SYRACUSE 

Brian Kessler Assistant Sports Editor 
NOTRE DAME TEXAS GEORGIA TECH MIAMI 

-
page 8 The Observer •IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 24, 1998 


THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME 
vs. 
THE TROJANS OF USC 
Photos by John Daily 

-

