
• Junior quarterback Jarius 
Fascinating RhYthm 
• Rice: Student needs Changing 
Jackson rakes a stab at lead­
sacrificed for U.S. News 
of the ing the Irish into battle dur­
• See Scene for complete coverage of the ranking. 
ing spring practice. p. 24
1998 Collegiate Jazz Festival. p. 11-13 p. 9 
guard 


Friday, April3, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. h9 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 

Bailey: 'French were impregnated with myths' 
By TARA CHURIK 
News Writer 

Colin Bailey. Chief Curator of the National Gallery of Canada in Ottawa, gave a lecture on 18th century French art at Cushing Auditorium yesterday. 
The lecture is part of a series put on by the American Society on Eighteenth Century Studies (ASECS). which is holding a conference at Notre Dame this week. 
Bailey began the evening by discussing the nature of artistic education in France. He stated that one of his goals was to demonstrate that "18th-century French art is as beautiful, meaningful, and poetic as any 18th-century art, although it always hasn't been given such respect." 

The speaker then reviewed a series of mythological paint­ings, remarking on their plea­sure-loving themes. He stated that these decorative mytholo­gies tended to remove all seri­ousness from their subject mat­ter, but that their underlying messages do maintain a serious subject. 
Bailey often cited works of Francois Boucher, calling him the "greatest 18th-century mythological painter." He stat­ed that many French mytholog­ical artists were more literate than we have perceived them to be and that studies of the clas­sics were stressed in art schools. 
"The French were impregnat­ed with the myths of ancient Greece and Rome," elaborated Bailey, noting that students were· sometimes required to dine with their rectors, reading history throughout their meals. 
However, Bailey was quick to assert that simply because an artist was more educated, he or she was not necessarily a better painter. He added that "the finest mythologies incorporate classic references into their paintings more skillfully than others." 
The speaker next outlined four main criteria of observing the ways in which 18th-century painters incorporated ancient lore into their paintings. First, he defined the technique of sequential mythologies, where one small figure in the painting foreshadows an upcoming event, usually of great signifi­cance to the main characters in the painting. 
Next, he discussed referential mythology, where particular moments of the myth are incor­porated exactly into the paint­ing, demonstrating the artist's knowledge of his or her subject matter. 
Then, Bailey elaborated upon inventive mythology, where an artist will take liberties with a mythological text if he knows that they will be appreciated by the audience in his painting, according to Bailey. · 
Finally, Bailey define!'his concept of an "arcane plunder-
see ASECS I page 6 
Class of 1998 begins search for class fellow 
By KRIST! KUTSCH Assistant News Editor 
For the past 10 years, the graduating seniors have honored a member of the Notre Dame faculty as the Senior Class Fellow, an award given at the Senior Mass held at the Grotto during Senior Week. 
"The Senior Class Fellow is an award designed for any faculty, staff or administra­tion member that has made a significant con­tribution to the elass,'' explain senior class president Beth Nolan. 
According to Nolan. the senior fellow origi­nated in the early 1980's, but the award was perceived as a sort of joke that no faculty member wanted to receive. 
But over the past 10 years, the award has been given to a person on the faculty that has made a serious contribution to the class. 
Father Mark Poorman, associate professor of theology, was the Senior Class Fellow last year. 
"I do not know how I was nominated," he stated, "but I was extremely pleased and hon­ored to be chosen by the class as a fellow." 
Poorman was notified by last year's senior class president of his achievement prior to the senior visit to the Grotto. 
"I spoke at the last Mass at the Grotto,'' Poorman remembered. "The senior class pres­ident spoke, and then I was given a few mom~nts of acceptance and thanks to the class. 
Nolan. who attended the Senior Mass last year, said that Poorman met many seniors through his involvement with residence assis­tant training during the summer. 
"lie was well-known throughout the class as a positive person," Nolan said. 
"One of the people that nominated me said that she had learned a lot about relationships and church teachings through my classes," recalled Poorman. 
There are no qualifications to be nominated as a senior fellow, and any senior can nomi­nate someone for the position. 
"It is left up to the individual person to decide who they nominate," said Nolan. "It doesn't really matter who it is, as long as they have touched someone's life." 
The senior class is currently accepting nomi­nations for this year's senior fellow. Names can be submitted through the weekend. 
Any seniors interested in nominating a can­didate must e-mail or call the Class of 1998 o!Tice with the name of the person and why the person is worthy of receiving the award. 
see FELLOW I page 6 



For 25 years, Father George Wiskirchen has been leading Notre Dame's jazz ensemble through swing and funk, rhythm and blues 
By LAURA PETELLE Assistant News Editor 
Most directors at this weekend's Collegiate Jazz Festival will be wearing suits. · 
One will sport a clerical collar. 
That "one" is Father George Wiskirchen, director of the Notre Dame jazz bands since their inception in 1972. He will take the stage with the Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble tonight at 7:30p.m. 
Wiskirchen was born in 1928 in Quincy, Ill., a small town on the Mississippi River. He began play­ing trumpet in eighth grade. 
"I got bit by the music bug," Wiskirchen said, "and that's what I always wanted to be -a music teacher." 
"I did a lot of listening [to jazz) and a little playing in high school, but not much," he said. 
Wiskirchen entered Moreau Seminary in 1946 and majored in philosophy. While at Notre Dame, he took as many music electives as possible. 
After his ordination as a Holy Cross priest in 1955, Wiskirchen became a teacher at Notre Dame High School in Niles, Ill. He earned a degree in music from Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. 
"When I began teaching in 1955, there were few jazz bands, and the kids [at Notre Dame High School] wanted to start one, so we did," Wiskirchen said. 
Wiskirchen's Notre Dame High School band competed in a high school festival in Chicago in 1960. The prize was to appear at the Collegiate Jazz Festival (CJF) at the University of Notre Dame. Wiskirchen's band won, and that was the first time he had a band on the stage at CJF. 
In 1972, Wiskirchen came to the University to teach in the band program. 
"The first thing I did was put 
see JAZZ I page 4 


Friday, April 2, 1998
page 2 · The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE CoLUMN .r.-c·-.. i' • d h D ·

~,·~····z······· ... O·
, ~"'J



No's loss \,,_, ::, utst e t e orne 
"-y-·~'J Compiled from U-Wire reports 
When was the last time you heard a truly insightful homily? Last Sunday. as a resident of Knott Hall, I attended a mass that was presided over by 
Father David Garrick. 
What I experienced that night is something that I will not soon forget 
Father Garrick's minis­terial presence created a prayerful and thought­provoking atmosphere in which the congregation 

was made to feel truly  Brian Reinthaler  
involved in the mass.  It  Managing Editor  
was the first time in at  
least a year that I have  

partieipat1~d in a service from beginning to end. without slipping into the monotonous rep­etition of weekly prayers and hymns. 
The experience was highlighted by one of the most spiritually and mentally stimulating homilies I have ever heard. 
The Gospel reading for the fifth Sunday in Lent contains the story of the woman caught in the act of adultery who is brought to Jesus by the Pharisees so that they can ask Him wl~her or not she should be stoned to death, as the law of Moses commanded. Here, the Pharisees are trying to force Jesus into a con­tradiction of either the law, or His own teach­ings, so that they might have cause to publicly denounce Him. 
This passage from John 8 was preceded on Sunday by a reading from Isaiah 43, in which God announces that He is "doing something new," by bringing His'only son into the world so that it might be saved from sin. 
F:.tther Garrick tied the Scriptures together beautifully by explaining how God, by doing the greatest "new thing," laid the groundwork for Jesus to continue the work of doing new things. 
According to Garrick, the new things that Jesus does are always about equality and He does two new things in Sunday's reading from the Gospel of John: Christ abolishes capital punishment, and lie declares men and women to be equals. 
By stating to the condemning crowd (in the Gospel of John}, "lie who is without sin among you, let him throw a stone at her first," Jesus is showing the woman's accusers that, as sinners in need of forgiveness. they are all her equals. 
Ultimately, as Garrick pointed out. there was one person present who could have cast the first stone at the woman, allowing the remain­der of the crowd to follow suit: Jesus. Himself. 
However, by not doing so, said Garrick, Jesus set the woman free from the inequality of patriarchal laws (which then held only women accountable for sexual crimes) and rejected the death penalty as a means of pun­ishment for crimes. If Jesus Christ. who is indeed without sin, does not condemn a woman to die. then neither can an imperfect human being ever do so. 
Now, although the above is just a small sum­mary of a portion of Father Garrick's homily, it conveys a message that has, and always will have, great meaning. 
If it were not for new equalities at the expens1~ of tradition and outdated teachings, where would the world, and especially the Church, be today? 
It's just something else for the members of the Notre Dame community to ponder as the administration quietly watches one of its most dynamic and insightful members walk away. 
In a time when the services of priests are at a premium, it seems that Notre Dame consid­ers one of its greatest to be expendable. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Scene Laura Perelle Kristi Klirsch Tim Logan Sarah Dylag 
Kathleen O'Brien Graphics 
Sports Dave Piening Brian Kessler Production Viewpoint Mark DeBoy 
Colleen Gaughen Lab Tech Kevin Dalum 
Tho Obs<rv<r (USPS 599 2-4000) is publish<d Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of the A!>sodatcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 

Berkeley students rally to protest minority admissions drop 
BERKELEY, Calif. 
chance to increase the number of 
The day after university officials signatures to place the Equal released the results of university Education Opportunity Initiative,_ freshman admissions without affir­which would restore affirmative mative action, UC Berkeley students action in education, on this held various rallies throughout cam­November's ballot. The proposal 
pus to protest the university's shift to race-blind admissions. 
At Berkeley's Boalt School of Law, where no Latino students and one black student enrolled last year, about 150 students held a walkout to protest the decline in underrepresented minority admits. The students then held a cookout throughout the after­noon. 
"We wanted to get the message across to students that we are not alone in this crisis," said first-year law student Michael Murphy. "This is an issue that's much bigger than Boalt, or the University of Michigan. The mes­sage is that nationwide, we are going to fight the regressive attack on affir­
• RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 
Area man held in spring break scam 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 
The owner of a New Brunswick travel agency was arrested Wednesday on charges of theft, after a group of university students filed reports against him for not pay­ing the total sum of their all-expenses paid spring break trip to the Bahamas, authorities said. Demetrios Georgous, owner of Tropical Tours on Duke Street, is being held at the Middlesex County Adult Corrections Center in North Brunswick on $10,000 bail, which he had not posted as of last night, prison officials said. Each of the 12 to 13 student vacationers had to pay an addi­tional $716 before leaving the Bahamas when they dis­covered Georgous had not paid their hotel bill, SgL Thomas Selesky of the New Brunswick Police Department said. The students "explained (that) the travel agent was supposed to pay for the rooms, they were told otherwise," by the hotel staff. Selesky said. The group spent their last day of vacation calling home and trying to find ways to wire money to the Bahamas to pay the extra money. 
• GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY Barry may receive teaching post 
WASHINGTON, D.C 
Friends and supporters of D.C. Mayor Marion Barry have established a fund to urge him to accept a visiting professorship with the consortium of universities in the metropolitan area, The Washington Post reported Sunday. But GW President Stephen Joel Trachtenberg said GW does not have enough information to make a decision about whether it would offer Barry a position on the university faculty. The Post reported that the offer of a visiting professorship with the consortium will hinge upon the mayor's decision not to run for re-election. Barry has served four terms the city's mayor-16 of the last 24 years. Some Barry supporters have said the mayor will decide soon if he plans to run for re-election, but oth­ers said the mayor will make his decision closer to the deadline to declare mayoral candidacy in July, The Post reported. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast Accu Wearher ® forecasr for dayrime condirions and high remperarures 

TheAccuWeather®forecast for noon, Friday, April 3. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
FRONTS: 

"""r""""r __&_&_ .......-......­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C ~ 998 AccuWeather, Inc. 
Pressure 
H L 


HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY Vis A55ocisted Pross 
Q,Q,~p~Q  ~  ~ u  
Showers  T-storms  Rain  Flurries  Snow  fee  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Vta Assoctated Press GraphicsNet  
Atlanta 76 53 Milwaukee 42 32 Phoenix 72 52 Billings 59 36 Memphis 74 48 Reno 48 28 Boston 58 37 New York 60 41 St. Louis 58 40 Dallas 76 47 Nome 32 22 St. Paul 48 27 Detroit 50 36 Omaha 44 31 Seattle 54 40 


mative action." 
In lower Sproul Plaza late Wednesday afternoon, more than 50 students showed up to a rally to express their concern about the future of diversity on the campus. 
The protests coincided with the National Day of Action to Defend Affirmative Action across college cam­puses nationwide. More than 60 U.S. universities participated in the event. 
"Our participation (in the national day to defend affirmative action) is a positive one," said second-year law student Nada Lahoud. "We wanted to raise awareness among people who are not involved already." Murphy said the National Day of Action gave them a 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 
Researcher wins award for Pathfinder 
TUCSON. Ariz. 

The Arizona designed Imager for Mars Pathfinder opened its eyes last summer to a new age in space explo­ration. The history-making pictures taken in an ancient Martian flood channel called Aris Vales quickly made newspaper and magazine headlines all over the world. Last week Peter Smith, the camera's designer and UA Lunar and Planetary Laboratory research scientist. received the 1998 Alfred Eisenstaedt Award for best science photogra­phy at a lavish ceremony held in New York. "It's right that there are people that recognize this picture," Smith said. "It's not so much me that they recognize. but I think it's something about the pictures that gives a sense of possibili­ty." The awards are named in honor of Life magazine pho­tojournalist Alfred "Eisie" Eisenstaedt, who died in 1995 at the age of 96. Smith accepted the award on behalf of the University of Arizona, NASA and NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab in Pasadena, Calif., which managed the Pathfinder mission. "I told them (at the ceremony) that the pictures are significant to the new generation," Smith said. 
• COLORADO UNIVERSITY 50th world affairs conference begins 
BOULDEH. Colo. 

In 1948, CU professor Howard Higman gathered 200 peo­ple to hear Louis Dolivet, editor of United Nations World Magazine, speak on the future of the world. Calling it the Conference on World Affairs, Higman envisioned a gathering of individuals from all different fields of study and interests, creating a week of intellectual discussion and debate. "The conference has been concerned with bringing persons who have great responsibility to all different institutions on the human globe to Boulder," said John Murphy. who has been on the conference's board for 30 years. The conference con­tinues to follow in the footsteps of Higman, bringing intellec­tual minds from all over the world to CU. On Monday, CU will open its doors for the 50th anniversary of the conference. Students. faculty and community members have come together to organizn more than 200 panel discussions involv­ing 134 participants in a five-day period. 
was written by Boalt students. The ini­tiative is being circulated in other uni­versities in the state, including UCLA, Stanford and California State University, Los Angeles. 
"We spent almost all of January recruiting and gathering signatures all over California, and to get people excit­ed about (the initiative)," said Murphy, who also helped to organize yester­day's event. 
The initiative needs to have 800,000 signatures by April 17 in order for it to be placed on 80the November 1998 ballot. Students involved in the move­ment are currently tallying the num­bers from signature drives across California. 
Friday, April 3, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Voices of Faith 


Rice speaks about her experiences in business 

By SHANA'E TATE and SARA COX News Writers 
1 
The Uil!Verslly of Notre Dume Depudlllenl of Music pte>enls
I 
i Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Orchestra I perforn11ng 

Haydn's 

.,_Creation 
8:45p.m., Thursday, April2 Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
8 p.m., friday, April 3 
Church of Loretto, Saint Mary's 
The concert is free ond open to the public. 

Recycle IDLe<» Please<» 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
• 
UsEd l:xx>ks l::o.>ght. am sold 

• 
25,000 Hardback ar.d Paperback tooks in stock 

• 
OJt-of-Print Serm::h Service: $2.00 


• l'{:praisals large am s:rall 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 (219) 232,8444 
Susan Fitzgerald Rice, the fifth Spring Shannon Alumna Executive Scholar, returned to Saint Mary's yesterday to share stories of her experiences in the business world. 
Rice met with members of the Saint Mary's community to dis­cuss her life as a business pro~ fessional. Today, she will give a talk entitled "Non-Profit Management" at a invitation­only luncheon. 
The Shannon Alumna Executive Scholar Program was founded in 1993, featuring out­standing Saint Mary's alumnae who have distinguished them­selves in their respective fields. 
Rice said that Saint Mary's has influenced her life tremen­dously and believes that her experience at the college inspired her "to give back," by volunteering for the public good. 
When she discussed future goals, Rice said that she hopes to provide good service for her clients. 
"I want the business to grow, but I want to control it so that I have the flexibility to teach and spend time with my family," Rice said. 
One of the most effective ser­vices in her business is "quality work in a short time" for her clients. 
In addition to running her own business, Rice is currently teaching a course entitled "How to Write Successful Grant Proposals" at the University of California at Los Angeles. She said that she enjoys plotting out assignments so that thB stu­dents get something out of it. 
Over the last 20 years, Rice has worked in a variety of fields. In the non-profit sector, she was the president and chief execu­tive officer of the Greater Los Angeles Zoo Associates for four years. 
While holding top manage­ment positions, Rice worked with UCLA, Special Olympics International and Business Executives for National 
Security. She was a paz:tner with The Wachtel! Group, which provides fund-raising counsel to nonprofits, and last year she started her own business, SFR Consulting. 
A 1961 graduate of Saint Mary's, Rice is currently a member of The Sesquicentennial Campaign Cabinet. She has also served on the Board of Directors of the Alumnae Association and received the school's Distinguished Alumna Award in 1986. 


... 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 3, 1998 
students in the pictures. He him in music, according to a been so memorable over the brevis,"' Wiskirehen said. The knows what most of them are recent interview with the years," Wiskirchen said. phrase is Latin for "Art is long,


Jazz 
Tuition raised again for 1998-99 
Special to The Observer comparable private univer­
sities. 
Undergraduate tuition and "Notre Dame's charges average room and board remain competitlve in its chargos at Notre Dame will peer group of private uni­increase 5. 7 percent for the versities," he wrote. "In 1998-99 academic year. total student charges for the 
An increase of $1,1 00 will current academic year, we bring tuition and fees to rank 82 out of 120, with a $20,900. Room and board cost below both the mid· 
charges will rise $305 to an point and the average for average of $5,325, for a this group." combined cost of $26,225. "For a comparatively less 
In a letter to parents of expensive cost. our students 1998-99 undergraduate stu­receive an education consis­dents, Notre Dame president tently ranked among the Father Edward Malloy best offered by America's emphasized that the national teaching-and­trustees and officers of the research universities," he University are "making added. every effort to keep Notre Graduate School tuition in Dame affordable." 1998-99 will be $20,800, 
Malloy added that tuition and tuition in both the Law and room and board School and master's pro­charges at Notre Dame grams in business will be remain below those of most $21,500. 

Study Portuguese at Notre Dame 
The language of Brazil, Latin America's largest and most populous country, a land of rich literature, fascinating music, natural beauty and international business opportunities. 
Learn fast: Intensive course 
Fulfill the language requirement 
in 2 semesters 
Contact: Department of Romance Languages 

"EL VIA CRUCIS" (The Way of the Cross) 
IN CHICAGO'S PILSEN NEIGHBORHOOD 
"The heart of Chicago's Latino Community" 
Good Friday, April 10 
Join Campus Ministry and the Center for Social Concerns 
as we celebrate with over 2000 faithful the traditional 
Latino reenactment of our Lord's Passion and Death in the 
streets of Pilsen, followed by reflection and a simple lunch. 
Please sign up at the Hesburgh Library Campus Ministry office or call Bianca Gaytan@ 634-4404...by Tuesday, April 7. There is a limited number of seats, so please sign up soon! 
Cost is $5 (which includes transportation and simple lunch) 
.. 
c r" 'r" , o 1t 
SOCIAL (Z\MPUS 
CONCERNS 
MINISTRY 

Chicago Tribune. Wiskirchen's one regret is life is brief." 
Wikirchen has published that there is not enough time to "There just isn't enough time three books for jazz musicians accomplish everything he to explore, to do all the stull' l and has written many articles wants to because the jazz band want to do," he said. "There's for DownBeat magazine and is an extracurricular at Notre never enough time to get done other journals dedicated to Dame and only meets once a what you want to get done." music and education. week. "And that's about the size of 
"There's been so much that's "My motto is 'Ars longa, vita that," Wiskirchen observed. 


James Joyce spoke Italian. 
Shouldn't you? 
Register now for fall 
For more information on course offirings call63I-4705. 
2398  ROIT  101  01  Beginning Italian I  3.0  MWF  09:35-10:25  T  09:30-10:20  
2399  ROIT  101  02  Beginning Italian I  3.0  MWF  10:40-11 :30  H  11:00-11:50  
2400  ROIT  101  03  Beginning Italian I  3.0  MWF  11 :45-12:35  T  11 :00-11 :50  
3349  ROIT  101  04  Beginning Italian I  3.0  MWF  12:50-01 :40  H  12:30-01 :20  
2401  ROIT  103 01  Intermediate Italian  3.0  MWF  09:35-10:25  
2402  ROIT  103 02  Intermediate Italian  3.0  MWF  10:40-11 :30  
0200  ROIT  103 03  Intermediate Italian  3.0  MWF  11 :45-12:35  
2659  ROIT  111 F 01  Intensive Beginning  5.0  MWF  09:35-10:25  TH 09:30-10:45  
0977  ROIT  111 F 02  Intensive Beginning  5.0  MWF  1 0:40-11 :30  TH 11:00-12:15  
0201  ROIT  111 F 03  Intensive Beginning  5.0  MWF  12:50-01 :40  TH 12:30-01 :45  
0971  ROIT  237 01  OK Computer Italian  3.0  TH  11:00-12:15  (Cachey)  
3451  ROIT  345 01  Surv Med & Ren Lit  3.0  TH  09:30-10:45  (Moevs)  
4779  ROIT  410 01  Italian Short Story  3.0  MW  11 :45-01 :00  (Welle)  
3592  ROIT  421  01  Dante I  3.0  TH  02:00-03:15  (Cachey)  

3009 ROIT 501 01 lt. Lang. Acquistion 1.5 F 02:00-03.15 (Fiosi) 4784 ROIT 502 01 ltal. Cultural Studies 3.0 MW 03:00-04:15 (Welle) 4205 ROIT 546 01 Venetian & N. ltal. Art 3.0 TH 11:00-12:15 (Coleman, R.) 4216 ROIT 584 01 Rome in Age Bernini 3.0 H 02:00-04:30 (Coleman, R.) 
EASTER WEEJ(END HOURS Cl!Jl[Buddle Mart 
Thursday, April9 --7:30am-8:00pm Friday-Saturday, Apri110, 11 --The Huddle Mart will be open from 10:00 am-5:00pm Easter sunday -Closed Monday, April 13 --Open regular hours 



A~~\\)

Easter Sunday Buffet 
will be served at North Dining Hall from 1:00 -4:00 pm 
Hors d'oeurves Seafood Bisque with Sherry

;---./ ' 

Honey Glazed Ham with Pineapple Sauce ~ Sauteed Breast ofChicken Tchouptoulas Herb Roasted Leg ofSpring Lamb v~~ Vegetable Rice Pilaf---Delmonico Potatoes Asparagus Spears Hollandaise 
/V'~J 
SauteedJulienne Vegetables Salads and Breads Desserts and Fresh Fruits 




'--:5'
Adults-$10.75 Children-$5.40 · Children under 5 eat free Students on a Notre Dame meal plan need their ID 
South Dining Hall wzll be closed 
continued from page 1 
together a big band," he said. 
The Notre Dame jazz band didn't compete at CJF in its first year of existence, but Wiskirehen had them up on the stage in 1974. lie has had a band on the stage every year since. 
!lis past students stay in touch. Flipping through an album full of pictures of jazz bands from every year, Wiskirchen can name all of the doing now. 
While most students in the 
Notre Dame jazz program are 
not music majors and do not pursue a career in the music field, Wiskirchen has seen many students follow music careers as performers on the ·jazz circuit, as educators, or as 
composers. 
Jim Pankow, founder of the 
group Chicago, was a student 
of Wiskirchen's at Notre Dame 
lligh School and credits 
Wiskirchen with introducing 
him to jazz and encouraging 


• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. hostage escapes from captors 
BOGOTA, Colombia 
One of four American bird watchers kid­napped last week by Colombian rebels escaped Thursday, wandering the jungle until being discovered by a television news crew, officials said. Thomas Fiori of New York City told his rescuers that he ate well during his captivity and wasn't mistre·ated. Fiori was in the custody of the Air Force, Gen. Freddy Padilla, the regional army com­mander. told Radionet radio. The Americans were seized after stumbling upon a road­block set up by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the nation's largest and most pow!lrful rebel group. An Italian busi­nessman and several Colombians also were abducted in the March 23 incident. The con­dition of the other kidnap victims wasn't immediately known. 
Chicago couple found dead, children are missing 
CHICAGO 
A factory worker who had apparently been chased out of his neighborhood by gangs six months ago was found stabbed to death i.n his n!lw apartment with his wife, and their children were missing -abducted, police believe, by the killers. The bodies of Mariano Soto, 39, and his wife, Jacinita, 35, were found Wednesday after relatives hadn't seen the family since last week. The couple appeared to have been dead for several days. There were no signs of forced entry or a struggle -and no signs of the children, 3­year-old Santiago and 2-month-old Guadalupe Maria. "You would have to assume at this point that whoever killed the parents took the children." Detective Dale Smithe said Thursday. "All our assets are being used to find the kids. Hopefully they're still alive." 
White House seeks to curb teen smoking 
WASHINGTON 
Armed with new evidence that teen smok­ing is on the increase, the White House told Congress on Thursday it wants tougher ~uti­tobacco legislation and a key Republican implored cigarette companies to go along or get rolled over. The furious activity came one day after an unprecedented bill designed to curb tobacco use by teen-agers-and simul­taneously raise hundreds of billions of dol­lars for the government -was approved by a Senate committee. The Clinton administra­tion urged Congress to quickly enact even tougher legislation, announcing that a star­tling 43 percent of the nation's high school students already use tobacco and that teen smoking is rising steadily. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1852.96
8986.64 

+5.30 
NYSE: 582.04 +5.63 
S&P 500: 
Composite1120.01 Volume: +118.32 +11.86 815,933,250 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
nlMrA~:t: liCJs;EB '~t rUillSii[ I Y~lri I!BICE 
COR THERAPEUTICS CORR 78.95 9.844 22.31 E·N ET Wf.zooz [TELW 2.75 2.75 6.25 01110 ART CO OAR 12.00 12.00 33.5 PANDA PROJECT PNDA 2.00 2.00 6.06 TOPS APPLIANCE TOPS 0.812 0.812 2.88 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
lt-TERFERON SCI EN OF5C 69.46 4.9063 2.156 ROGUE WAVE SOFTW RWAV 41.53 6.4375 9.063 RESPIRONICS INC RESP 36.77 10.687 18.375 SECURITY DYNAMIC SDTI 36.62 I 5.563 26.938 ZENITH ELEC CORP ZE 31.51 1.438 3.125 
Palestinians, Israelis clash at funeral 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
RAMALLAI-1, West Bank 
Shaking their fists in rage, thousands of mourners marched in a funeral pro­cession Thursday for a top l-lamas bombmaker hailed by Palestinians as a martyr and condemned by Israel as a terrorist. 
l-lamas militants rejected Israel's denial of responsi­bility for the death of Mohiyedine Sharif, and vowed to avenge him with attacks bloodier than the string of suicide bombings that followed another bombmaker's assassination two years ago. 
Israel "paid with 60 coffins" then, "and we are telling them now to prepare for more," a l-lamas leaflet warned Thursday. 
After the funeral, marchers hurled stones at Israeli soldiers who responded by firing rubber­coated metal bullets. At one point, Palestinian police shot both in the air and at Israeli soldiers who were approaching the edge of Palestinian­ruled territory. 
Israeli troops went on heightened alert, with thousands of officers man­ning West Bank roadblocks and patrolling markets, bus stations and shopping malls. 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, speaking Thursday night in 1-Ierzliya, warned Palestinians against blaming Israel for Sharifs death, and said Israel would hold the Palestinian Authority responsible if there was an attack as a result of its inflaming the public. 
"They know the truth aDd they know very well that we were not involved in this," he said. 
Israel said Sharif, 32, who topped Israel's most-wanted list, died when a car bomb exploded prematurely Sunday night in a l-lamas bomb factory in Palestinian-controlled Ramallah. 
Palestinian police said Sharif had been shot and killed before the explo-sion, and the explosion was intended to cover up the slaying. The police and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat did not directly blame Israel, but other Palestinian officials did. 

Marwan Barghouti, a leader of Arafat's Fatah faction of the PLO, said it was "obvious" that Israel had assassi­
'START PREPARING BlACK 
. BAGS, BECAUSE WE ARE 
GOING TO FlLL THEM WITH 
JEWISH BODIES.' 
HAMAS GRAFFITI IN THE GAZA STRIP 
nated Sharif. 
Netanyahu and other Israeli officials have categorically denied any Israeli role in Sharifs death. In past assassi­nations believed carried out by Israel, the government usually refused to con­firm or deny its involvement. 
At least 6,000 people joined the funeral procession for Sharif as it snaked through Ramallah on Thursday. Sharifs body, wrapped in a white and green blanket, was carried on a stretcher. His blackened face and upper body were exposed, much of the skin peeled away. 
"We want to hear explosions in Tel Aviv. Blow them up! Blow them up!" chanted a group of women, slapping their faces in grief. Young men, some crying and others shaking their fists, shouted "Revenge, revenge!" 
In the Gaza Strip, l-lamas graffiti warned Netanyahu to "start preparing black bags, because we are going to fill them with Jewish bodies." 
Hamas, which has carried out more than a dozen suicide bombings in Israel since 1994, urged the Palestinian Authority to break off its peace negotia­tions with Israel. Israel blames Sharif for masterminding July and September suicide bombings in Jerusalem that killed 26 people. 
~------------~--------.-~----.-----~--------------------------------------~------~----------------~ 
page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 3, I998 
Fellow 
'continued from page I 
Arter all the nominations are in, the seniors will compile a list for a vote on April 17. 
John Staud, professor of English, government professor Mark Jubulis and John Dunne, a professor in the th~:wlogy department, are some of this year's nominees. 
Kathryn Hichdale, a senior pre-professional student, nomi­nated Staud for his teaching ability. Hichdale is a student in Staud's 400-level literature class entitled Problems of Evil and Literature. 
"Throughout the years, I've had many different teaehers, but IStaudl has definitely gone out of his way for students. He encourages you to talk to him and he really inspires conversa­tion in dass." 



ASECS 
continued from page I 
ing" of traditional mythologieal sourecs, where artists strayed from subjeets of the traditional canon to other main sources for paintings. 
Bailny concluded his lecture by stressing Boucher's ability to work in all four types of these adaptations and reiterated the beauty and complexity of French paintings of the 18th­century. 
The lecture was entitled "'Galant Mythology' or 
Richdale pointed out that Staud never lectured from class notes, and this teaching style stimulated more discussion among the students. 
"He really doesn't seem like a teacher, rather more of a leader of the class," Richdale added. 
Colin Thomas, a senior gov­ernment majnr. nominated Jubulis for his ability to inspire his students. 
"I nominated him because he had the greatest impact on get­ting me interested in the topic we were studying," he said. 
"I recommended this class to numerous people and every one of them also enjoyed IJubulis'J class," Thomas added. 
Nolan stressed the impor­tance of the Senior Fellow by saying, "It really is a special time for our class to remember a member of the faculty that has made a special contribution to us." 
'Ingenious Art' -Towards an Understanding of Mythological Painting in Eighteenth-Century France." 
Before taking his current position at the National Gallery of Canada, Bailey worked as senior curator at the Kimball Art Museum in Fort Worth, Texas. Be received his Ph.D. from Oxford University in 1985 and has lectured at such insti­tutions as the Louvre, in Paris, The Metropolitan Museum of Art, in New York City, and the Washington National Gallery of Art. He has also written five books on 18th-century art in France. 
Listen to 88.9 FM from 5:30 -6 p.m. today for the ND Weekly. 
By KRISTINA ZURCHER 
News Writer 
Peter Edelman, professor of law at Georgetown University, spoke Wednesday night on the problems of welfare reform at the Center for Social Concerns. 
The introductory speaker, Notre Dame law professor John Robinson, described Edelman, who has worked in Washington, D.C. for several years, as "a moral force in a city where moral forces are greatly needed." 
According to Edelman, the problems with welfare in the past that led to the 1996 reform legislation have only been made worse by the new laws. He said one main method of reform was devolution, which gave each state a block grant for welfare. Another noted method was a lifetime limit on the usc of fed­eral welfare funds of five years for most families. 
Under this plan, states can choose the extent of their wel­fare programs and fix limits of up to five years of welfare for families. Edelman said that cer­tain states are eutting back on welfare programs, harming recipients in areas such as work requirements, job avail­ability and child_care. 
"The real issue is that states can't do what needs to be done by themselves," Edelman said. 
He mentioned that 38 percent of those people who go off wel­fare nationally were "pushed off' by these time limits due to a "Work First" mentality, but were not helped sufficiently to get jobs. According to Edelman, real jobs programs do not take geographic and situational vari­ances seriously. 
Edelman discusses welfare 
Another problem Edelman found with the "Work First" mentality was that it does not help those trying to better their situation. One case he cited was that of a New York community college in which 10,000 women on welfare were pushed out of the college and into a work p·ro­gram. 
"Here are people improving themselves, and the state comes along and says, 'Get out of here, get to work,"' Edelman said. 
According to Edelman, suit­able jobs arc not available to enough workers. lie said that in Indiana, there are three job seekers for every one relevant, accessible job and that the ratio doubles in cities like Chicago and St. Louis. 
To show that the jobs avail­able do not remove people from poverty, Edelman cited figures from 1996 saying that the num­ber of people beneath the 
poverty line increased from 
13.9 million to 14.4 million. 
"We need to be talking about a living wage; we need to be talking about fairness," he said. 
Another problem Edelman spoke of was child care provi­sions. lie said that due to the state-organized program, states like Florida and South Carolina take away child care subsidies. 
As a solution, Edelman stressed a combination of fed­eral policy and community involvement. 
"We need 'both/and,' not 'either/or,'" he said. 
Edelman came to Notre Dame as part of an ongoing lecture series about welfare sponsored by the CSC and the South Bend Heritage Foundation. According to David liay of the Foundation, the Jessie Ball duPont Fund provided the two groups with a two-year, $150,000 grant in order to help them build a part­nership. 
April 3&4, 1998 •Stepan Center 
Friday 7:30 pm • Saturday Afternoon 1 :30 pm • Saturday Evening 7:30 pm Tickets available at the door & at the LaFortune Information Desk: 631-8128. Call the Student Union Board for more information: 631-7757. 
Gay/Lesbian issues addressed at CSC teach-in 
---------~-~------~~------~----------.-~-------------~----..~~----..--------~--------~----~--------..........~----~ 
Friday, April 3, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
J 
By TIM LOGAN 
News Writer 
Discrimination against homo­sexual students at Notre Dame was the subject of a teach-in at the Center for Social Concerns yesterday afternoon. 
Nine members of the Notre Dame community addressed the issue in an event organized by the Women's Resource Center and the Progressive Students' Alliance, before opening the floor for discus­sion. The same groups were responsible for last week's rally in support of Father David Garrick. 
Garrick, who recently resigned in protest of Notre 
Dame's Jack of a non-discrimi­nation clause protecting homo­sexuals, was one of the speak­ers at the teach-in. 
Kelly McMahon of the Women's' Resource Center cited Garrick's address, on the Catholic Church's teachings on homosexuality, as one of the event's highlights. 
"He was great," she said. "He showed that the Church says homosexuals should be treated with respect and dignity." 
To demonstrate the Church's teachings, Garrick distributed copies of a number of Catholic Church documents on the issue. The documents urged compassion, acceptance and love for people of all sexual 
orientation. About 70 people were present for Garrick's talk. 
Another speaker who was praised by attendees was grad­uate student David Weiss, whose talk was entitled "Reinterpreting Sodom and Gomorrah." He noted that the Biblical story of the two cities is often used to condemn homosexuality, but can just as easily be seen as a call for love, hospitality and accep­tance. 
"It was a good example of how people use the Bible to justify things," said sophomore Sophie Fortin. "But you can reinterpret those stories, and those justifications, in many 

BE A PART OF PLANNING YOUR JPW APPLY FOR A POSITION ON THE 

DON'T MISS OUT!!! 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE AT 315 LAFORTUNE 
APPLICATIONS MUST BE RETURNED BY 5PM APRIL 9 
Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your 
skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for 
everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 
3606 Stadium Theater 

• 
Training Center 

• 
Pigskin Pageantry 

• 
Hall of Champions 

• 
Strategy Clinic 

• 
Bowl Games & National Championships 

• 
Great Moments 


1.800.440.FAME 
.~.. (1.800.440.3263) 
http:/I collegefootball. org/ 219.235.9999


't1i'Q 
Founding ~UNITEDSTI1TES ••, _.-.KIUIIGINERG _AJka·. Sponsors: ~POSTI1LSERVICE.. -Seltzer. 
ways." 
"I thought Weiss was very insightful," stated freshman Sheila McCarthy. 
Organizers were pleased with the way the event, which did not have a great deal of publicity, turned out. Nearly 150 students attended over the course of five hours. 
"I thought it went pretty well." said McMahon. "We were able to point out the problems of Notre Dame's stance on homosexuality in light of Catholic teaching. We hope we educated most of the people that came to listen." 
''There was a lot of good dis­cussion, a lot of different per­spectives," said Fortin. "It showed that it's not an issue of the Church, it's about educa­tion, love and hope." 
Those who attended hope the meeting will lead to increased awareness and concern for gay and lesbian issues. 
"I think this was a good and necessary first step," said McCarthy. "There has to be a way to make it less intimidat­ing to start a dialogue (on the issue)." 
The teach-in comes on the 
heels of last Wednesday's rally in support of Father GCJrrick and the plea for the addition of a non-discrimination clause giving homosexual students, faculty and staff legal protec­tion at Notre Dame. Yesterday's event will be fol­lowed up with a Day of Silence to be held next Wednesday. 
Participants will remain silent from 8 a.m. until 5 p.m., while distributing leaflets advocating equal rights for gays and lesbians. 
The day will conclude with an "End the Silence" rally at Fieldhouse Mall. 
This event will be the third open demonstration in as many weeks on gay and les­bian rights at Notre Dame. 
There was discussion of ways to build on the momentum cre­ated by the events of the last two weeks. Some people sug­gested a program to bring stu­dents into residence halls to talk about homosexual issues. 
"We want to keep the ball rolling on the issue," said Fortin. "We want to keep things moving so it doesn't die down and so students can't forget about it." 
TO ALL DEPENDABLE AND EFFECTIVE LEADERS 
:'P::::::: 
r---------;.______________.;.__~3':;; ________, 
I · I 
: Student Business Board General: 
: I Manager for the 98-99 !I academic year. ! 
I I I 
Duties will include oversight of the I 
I 
I
finances for the Irish Gardens, I 
I Adworks, and N D Video as well as I I 
I 
other administrative duties. I 
I I I I 
I I
·L------------------------------------J
r.;. _____.;.____--::__:_____________'2'------------, 
: *Applications can be picked up in the 1 ! Student Activities 315'LaFortune. 
J 
':'!!i!i:.~:'~ *Questions call Crystal at 243,8769 
I I I 
: *Applications due by April 8th at i'!!+i:l'\'!i! 4:00 p.m.

L---------------------------------------­
lla more 
CarlsonWagonlit l~ 
\1 l 1d' L'lmnll' l ;ul\'111 \\elf.!\ llilll I r<l' cl '' L' h;1\ l hLTII 'L 1Jd111.~ "-~ l\1 v I );HilL' .\I hi 1 \\.ul\lllltk-tll,andl<lcllillllli.llr<>ptl"i"'''t2."i1Lli' lcl<~llll"\!ll'ttl'tl<l•l ·tl!llp<.:;m SpL'l'l{lll"h pl;nl ~~llll Ill'\\ II II' hi I Pltllx.· { 1u1 :I.~L'IIL~ tllkt" 
172.< s..ulll hcnd \I, 
1Nc\1 1" ',.•Ill" l'l,tlll< Ph ~ I ' · :.., I .!.""' • hi\ =!'• =:I J:•C · 

le\Jl\lifl C<"lll kl'llltcl•'lij' lilly~~. 
~·--­
.... 


page 8 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 3, 1998 
Newlyweds donate $5,250 to ND Legal Aid Clinic 
By JESSICA LOGAN 
News Writer 
While most couples received bath towels when they get mar­ried, newlyweds Marlin McKinney and John Bellaschi asked for a more unusual gift, and the Notn~ Dame Legal Aid Clinic has benefited from their generosity. 
When the Notre Dame Law School graduates were married in December, they asked that in lieu of gifts, donations be made to the Legal Aid Clinic at Notre Dame. To date, those gifts total more than $5,250. 
As part of the law school, the Legal Aid Clinic allows students to provide service, while gain­ing valuable experience, by representing low income fami­lies under the guidance of practicing attorneys. 
"Students represent clients in a variety of legal matters. Many of the cases involve landlord­tenant cases and family issues," clinic co-director Eileen Doran explained. 
"John spent many hours at the Center for the Homeless and was an excellent and dedi­cated intern. Marlin represent­nd children as well as elderly clients in more spedalized clin­ics," Doran said. ' 
McKinney was also extremely active in the Women's Legal Forum, which works to address the academic and the social needs of students with a partic­ular emphasis on women in the law. 
Both Bellaschi and McKinney were involved with the Legal Aid Clinic for two years while attending the Notre Dame Law School. 
"We both got to know a num­ber of peopln that the clinic serves," Bellaschi stated. "We 
The Observer: We put the "}'tg" m. "}'tggy." 

~;:;:;;::;::;:;::;::;;::::;:;:;;::::;;:;~:;:;-;r=-=-=--=:-:--=:-:-=-:-:;;;:-:_=-:-=-=-= 
12:50, 1:20, 3:45,4:25, 7:05, 10:00 HUSH (PG-13) 12:55,3:10 BIG LEBOWSKI (R) 7:15, 9:50 LOST IN SPACE 3** (PG-13) DTS 
. 1:20', 1:50'. 3:40, 4:10', 4:40', 6:45, 7:05', 7:30'. 9:30, 9:50'. 10:25' LA CONFIDENTIAL (R) 1:15, 4:05, 7:00, 10:05 
MERCURY RISING (R)** 1:40'. 2:10'. 4:25'. 5:00'. 7:05'. 7:50'. 9:55'' 10:35' 
MR NICE GUY (PG-13) DTS 1:00, 
. 5:30, 7:45, 10:20 RIDE (R) 1:05,3:15,5:25, 7:35,9:45 US MARSHALS (PG-13) DTS 1:25, 
7:10, 7:35, 10:05, 10:25 THINGS (R) 1:10,1:30,4:00, 10:10 
*Stadium Sealing ..No passes 
ttarEL 
® 
... had tremendous experiences working in the clinic ... To actually practice law in the clinic was a unique experience, and working with the disadvan­taged folks who are served there was really rewarding." 
"They're a great group of people to have around," Bcllaschi said of those involved at the Legal Aid Clinic. 
Law school faculty were grateful for the generous gift. 
"We were just shocked," co­director of the clinic Barbara Szweda said. "But at the same time, this is an example of the generosity they showed when they worked at the clinic. They were excellent interns who really worked well with their clients. So, on one hand this is surprising, but on the other it isn't, because it just shows the kind of people Marlin and John are. We really appreciate what they have done." 
"We decided pretty early on to make a donation to charity," Bellaschi explained. "When we decided to make some kind of charitable contribution with our wedding gifts, the clinic immediately came to mind." 
McKinney, from Indianapolis, and Bellaschi, from McLean, Va., both earned bachelors degrnes in 1989 from Stanford University. Bellaschi immedi­ately enrolled in law school at Notre Dame, while McKinney taught school for three years before entering the Notre Dame Law School in 1992. 
Bellaschi currently practices in the McLean law firm of McGuire, Woods, Battle, and Boothe. McKinney teaches gov­ernment, law, economics, and American history while also supervising the mock trial team at Connelly School of the Iloly Child in Potomac, Maryland. 
Moreau Center­Uttle Theatre Thursday-Saturday, April 2-4 • 8 p.m. Sunday, April 5 • 2:30 p.m. 
nckets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday· Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
IM8fifiD
c~THEARTS ~NOTRI! OAIII!, IN 
Fean finds meaning in Easter Vigil 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
Saint Mary's News Editor 
Learning to understand the 
Easter Vigil by reaching out to 
others and appreciating what 
God has created was the focus 
of a lecture by Judy Fean, a 
member of Saint Mary's Campus 
Ministry yesterday. 
For Fean, striving to reach an 
understanding about the Easter 
Vigil came about due to the fact 
that her son was to be baptized 
the night before Easter during 
the vigil. ­
She decided to volunteer to assist in the vigil service and this, along with the stories from the Bible that are read that night, eventually became part of the process that led her to pur­sue graduate studies in theolo­gy. 
· "I found myself face to face 
with the Catholic tradition that I 
thought I knew but really 

1998 N.A.A.C.P. ln1age Awards Ceren1ony 
Presenting The: 
Athlete ofThe Year Community Seruice Award Erskine Peters Award Freshman ofThe Year Senior ofThe Year 

Plus Performances By: 
Blackburn African Dance Troupe. Alika Bryant, Vibe, Voices Of Faith, and many more... 
Friday April 3 8:00p.m. Lafortune Ballroom., 
/ 
$3 Donation Accepted At The Door 
------------------------, 
•PRIVATE 
IN ROOM JACUZZI SPAS (FOR 2) 

•FREE 
CONTINENTAL BREAKFAST 

•FREE 
HBO, CNN, ESPN 

•FREE 
LOCAL CALLS, FAX 


QUAUTY RATED 
didn't," Fean said. "As a parent and CCD teacher. I was going to need to be able to educate oth· ers about it. I needed to have some of my questions answered." 
This experience, which helped Fean to acquire a better under­standing of the Easter Vigil, changed her. 
Part of this change occurred while she had a job in a parish and was working with people who wanted to be baptized or confirmed. When people would call and inquire about times for classes or about scheduling a baptism, Fean felt she needed to tell them more. 
"I needed to invite them in to find out why they wanted to be part of the Church, rather than just answering the date, time, 
· and what they needed to do," Fean explained. She also spoke of two men whom she had encountered. 
Both were facnd with people who could not accept them due to appearances. However, both men were able to lind accep­tance in the Church. 
'They have come to trust that they arc loved by God," Fean said. 
"We are challenged to be more open to hospitality," she continued, referring to the mes­sage of the Easter Vigil. "This is the night we find strength to know that God's love is not eon­lined." 
She then reflected on a read­ing from the book of Genesis which is part of the vigil service and its message regarding cre­ation. 
"Creation is too precious to God to be lost just because it is flawed," she contended. "Do we believe that what God has creat­ed is good, or do we believe and act in a way so that we need to form others in our image?" 

-~-----·~--~ ----~----~~---'---c. 








VIEWPOINT 
Friday, April 3, 1998 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinthaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR .................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER .........................Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brcn Huclar SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow 
Krisri Klitsch CONTROLLER ..................................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ............. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
The ()b~crvcr is the independent new.paper published by the srudents of the Universiry ofNorre Dame du Lac and Sainr Mary's College. h does nm necessaril}' reAecr the policies of the adminisnation of either institution. The news is reponed as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the F.ditor-in-Chicf. Managing Editor, A~sistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lett~rs and columns present rhe views of the authors. and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to aJI readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leuers is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 63I-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Sainr Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.! @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail obscrver@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• RIGHT OR WRONG? 
Student Needs Sacrificed For U.S. News Ranking 
T
he Administration has notified parents of undergrads that tuition, room and board for 1998­99 will total $26, 225, an increase of5.7 percent over the curtent year, which is four times the 1.4 percent rise in the Consumer Price Index this past year. 

Charles Rice 
Apart from the "Catholic character," the most persistent problem here is the transformation of Notre Dame into a school that can be attended by non­wealthy students only at the price of a debt burden that will paralyze their career and family options. As the University was preparing its tuition notice, The Observer offered a striking glimpse of the mindset that underlies that transformation. 
The Observer reported on the March 18th Faculty Senate meeting that "pres­sure to increase Notre Dame's ranking in the U.S. News and World Report ... has captured the attention of the University's faculty. [The] senate meeting ... focused on measures to bring Notre Dame, cur­rently ranked 19th, into the Top 10," with emphasis on improving "reputation, faculty and financial resources." 
Proposals include "reserving 75 of the 150 newly endowed chairs for senior fac­ulty with international reputations, estab­lishing prestigious visiting professorships and giving more priority funding to the graduate school. The major suggestion to improve faculty resources is reducing class sizes ... The senate also wants the University to incorporate an additional 150 faculty members to its staff ... The Academic Affairs Committee estimated that nearly $200 million would be needed ... [The senate chairman] also said money is what will get the University into the Top 10 and a 9:1 studenVfaculty ratio. Notre Dame's urgency to make the top 10 also involves ... faculty space expansion ... 'Arts and Letters needs a building big­ger than Planner to meet its needs,' said [the Academic Affairs Committee chair­man. The committee also proposed ... a new science faculty building where the parking lot [is] at Juniper and Krause. 'At 60 million dollars, this would be the most ambitious building process ever under­taken by the University,'" said the com­mittee chair. The proposal was tabled for future discussion. 
The U.S. News ranking, of course, is not a reliable measure of a university's performance at any level. As the Law School Admission Council stated: "Like all such systems, U.S. News focuses on ... aspects that can easily be counted, despite the far greater importance of [other] aspects ... [It] attaches arbitrary weights to those few factors ... it does include. You are ... misled if you treat ... rankings [such as] U.S. News ... as even a competent and conscientious presenta­tion of the limited information they pur­port to convey." 
The Faculty Senate proposal seeks to have the University perceived as better by an entity that ranks universities in order to sell magazines. More significant­ly, every item in the senate proposal would benefit the faculty. Smaller class size would benefit students, but the pro­posal is to do it by hiring more faculty. 
An alternative would be for the present faculty to teach more and research less, but don't hold your breath waiting for that idea to take the faculty by storm. 
Between 1985/86 and 1996/97,_the stu­dent body increased by 6.8 percent, with undergrads increasing by only 4.1 per­cent, while instructional faculty by 16.7 percent. Which brings up and old motion I have from my "jury duty" service as a Faculty Senator a decade ago. It would have requested the Provost to publish each year a position-by-position disclo­sure, without identifying faculty, of teach­ing loads including classroom teaching hours and numbers of students. It would be interesting how much teaching the faculty actually does. 
The student-cost problem was raised in the meeting of the Student Senate on the same night as the Faculty Senate meet­ing. A resolution "challenged the University's priorities in spending, point­ing out the continuous construction and renovation of buildings, despite Notre Dame's inability to provide total fmancial aid to students in need. The proposal suggested a moratorium on building pro­jects until 'every student with demon­strated need had those needs met.'" 
The motion was not the most elegantly crafted in parliamentary history, but at least it addressed the problem from the standpoint of those who pay the bills. Perhaps the Faculty Senate should adopt the minutes of the Student Senate instead of spending time on proposals which would involve major expense and which would, incidently, primarily benefit the faculty. 
These remarks are not intended to dis­parage the Faculty Senate. As individu­als, the 53 senators are dedicated profes­sionals with the interests of the University and its students at heart. But congregate them in a pack, give one of them a gavel and a shop-steward mental­ity takes over. There may be empirical support here for the proposition that 52 plus one can equal zero. However, the Faculty Senate's other-directedness in pursuing the approval of U.S. News merely follows the midset of-the Administration in its pursuit of the approval of the secular academic estab­lishment. 
Notre Dame's traditional emphasis had been on the education of undergrads in the Catholic tradition with graduate stud­ies and research in a balanced and com­plementary role. Over the past two decades, however, the Administration has abandoned that emphasis to strive instead for a reputation as a great research university. 
Notre Dame has followed the presti­gious universities in lobbying Congress for increases in federal loan limits. As limits went up, so did tuition. And then the universities lobbied for higher limits. And so on. 
Notre Dame is far from the worst offender. But our leaders' involvement in this immoral game is the reason why Notre Dame tuition, in real money adjust­ed for inflation, is twice what it was in 1978 before the University began its pur­suit of research greatness. 
Research is not education, and it is only marginally related to the interests of stu­dents. To house the research enterprise, our leaders are transforming this place into a crowded, urban-style campus. 
The students, however, can count on two things. The endowment will grow beyond the $2 million mark, and tuition will continue to rise beyond the inflation rate. As the former provost put it, Notre Dame's budget is "tuition driven." It is interesting to speculate as to what the tuition will be, and who will be willing to pay for it, if the double-digit inflation of the 1970s returns~ Despite the increasing efforts of the University to provide direct aid, student loans remain the primary form of "fmancial aid" at Notre Dame as elsewhere. 
In the process, the interests of students are subordinate to those of prestige-hun­gry administrators, the research profes­soriate and the bureaucracy. The Faculty Senate merely illustrates the empire­building attitude that has placed this University beyond the reach of middle­class students. 
It is fair to ask whether the administra­tion is already beyond the point of no return in its subordination of students' interests to the worship of the money god and research prestige. 
Professor Rice is on the Law School fac­ulty. His column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
GARRY TRUDEAU
• DooNESBURV • QuoTE OF THE DAY 

"Whoever gossips to you will gossip of you." 
-Spanish proverb 
·-­
I 



VIEWPOINT
page 10 Friday, April 3, 1998
I 
us -·. 
-----~---------~-~~------~­
r 
• CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE OBSERVER 
Whatever it's Worth 
OAHT. 
That one little acronym has the power to strike an impending sense of doom into the heart of anyone who may be undecided or just plain clueless about what to do with his or her future. Basically, if you are someone like me who has interests in many difl'orent areas of study, registering for classes can be more than 
a bit stressful and 
daunting. 
Last semester. I 
vowed to do things 
differently. When 
Jaclyn 
registration week 
rolled around, I took 
a DART book and a 
higblighter to a quiet 
place in the library 
where I proceeded to 
spend two hours try· 
ing to figure out exactly which classes I could take that would 
narrow my focus and give some direction to my uncertain future. 
This process did not go well. By the time those two hours had 
flown by, I had mentally ehanged my major three times, and I 
reached a point when I was ready to just make the call and 
punch in any random course numbers that popped into my head. 
At this point, I was so busy panicking that I did not even notice that someone was standing over my shoulder trying to get my attention. 
"Excuse me?" 
I lifted my weary head from the book that was practically coat· ed from cover to cover in highlighter. 
"Yes?" 
"Could you spare n few seconds of your time?'' 
Surprised, I nodded, ready for a break from the mentally exhausting tnsk with which I had been consumed. I pulled out the chair next to me, and the man gratefully accepted. He sat down and placed a worn leather briefcase on the table in front of us. Curious, I watched as the man leafed through a stack of tat­tered, hand·written pages until he found what he had been hunt· ing for. 
Tucking a lock of his long, careless hair behind his ear, the rna~. looked at me, smiled. and stuck out his hand, "My name is Joe. 
After introducing myself, I asked Joe if he was a student or faculty member here. He laughed and replied that he had noth· ing to do with Notre Dame. that he probably shouldn't have been there, and that he was just passing through. The Joe explained his purpose for being there that day. 
Joe was a writer. He grew up somewhere in California, but at the time he technically dld not live anywhere. He was a self· described "wanderer" who woke up one morning and decided that he wanted to Jive life by traveling. So. he packed some things. got in his car, and spent the next year and a half on a cross-country journey. In the places he liked he stayed a while and supported himself as a freelance writer. But eventually, Joe always moved on, forever h1 search of "what else is out there." 
.Joe explained that he made his living by selling poems like the ones he had pulled out of his briefcase. He asked me to read them, and invited me to make a "donation" to him if I was so inclined. After reading the poems, which were startlingly good, I asked Joe how much people usually offered him for one of his writings. He smiled and responded, "Whatever they're worth." 
Assuring him that his poems were worth much more, I gave Joe whatever small change I had in my pockets. We talked for a little while after that about his unusual and unpredictable life, Md Joe assured me that he eould not have been happier. Hl:l was doing what he loved ... wl'iting, experiencing the world and fol­lowing wherever his heart led him. lie had no regrets. 
After some time passed. Joe got up, thanked me. gathered his writings and wont on his way toward his next destination. Still, after he was gone, I could not help but think about this man who had passed through my life so fleetingly. but managed to leave such a big impression on me. 
.Joe's future was one of uncertainty, and he preferred it that way. In fact. he chose to live a life of instability guided only by ehanee and his own random inclinations. He was not swayed by sodety to choose a career, to establish a permanent residence, to narrow his interests and pursue only those dreams that are deemed acceptable by everyone else. 
I am not suggesting that we should all be like .Joe and drop out of school tomorrow to spend our lives trekking around this coun­try. 1do think, however. that we can all learn something from this man who was not afraid to pursue hls dreams no matter how ridiculous or unreasonable they may have seemed to others. 
Joe reminded me that it isn't necessary for anyone to narrow his or lwr goals. On the contrary. we are at this university to nxpand our aspirations, to discover things that are new and exciting to us, and to go down paths we never knew existed. This is our time to expand our minds and our understanding, to try out everything that interests us so that we will never have to spend our lives wondering ''what else is out there." 
When you're flipping through your DAHT book in the next few W!~eks trying to pick the eourses that will help shape your future, you may find yourself attracted to courses that seem completely illogical and unrelated to your course of study. Think twice before you dismiss these; they may le~d you to discover hidden talent'> that you never knew you had. 
And when you're wondering how much faith and effort you should put into following your dreams. however crazy they may seem. remember Joe's words: 
''Whatever they're worth.~ 

Villano 
.laclyn Villano is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. Her col­umn appears every other Friday. The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lETIERS TO THE EDITOR 

RecSports Rules Are Weightless 
this mle. The answer I ._____________________...J feel good that such 
I would like to make a brief addition to the let­ter by Christopher Fanclla and Thomas Szarek on Friday, March 20. They indeed brought up an excellent point regarding the "full usage" of these facilities, but have actually !ell a few stones unturned regarding the overall futility of this fitness center. In fact, implicit in their description of their run-ins with the bril-Jiant stall' at Holfs is the underlying fact that these employees have no clue about the reasoning behind the truly annoying rules of this place. 
Of extreme irritation to myself and other students who enjoy working out with weights is the set of rules that makes me wonder if I'm in church when I go into the building. 
For example, stu­dents are not allowed to wear hats in the weight room. Excuse me? When I was told to remove my hat by one of the staff mem­bers, I felt justified in asking the logic behind regarding the use of spotters during lifting. Spotters are an invaluable asset to someone who is perli1rming an exercise with a w1~ight that may cause harm should they fail to be abh~ to lift it. Beyond the two exercises that are relevant to this, spotters arc not generally necessary. Tho 
beauty of Hull's, however, is that these an~ required. It's not up to the judgement of'the student who may have been working out for six years. Nope. It's enforeed by stall' members who have nothing better to do than to annoy people who are trying to enjoy an already lame fit­ness center. When I was told that I needed a spotter (while warming up, mind you), I asked the employee if he could do it for me. His rcspons1~ and justification? "No, I can't do that. I've gotta walk around and thorn's insur­ance reasons." Certainly makes me 
received came from that deep, dark valley that sits between ignorance and incompetence. His response was, "Well, you might not be able to see what you're doing and drop a weight or bump into somebody ... or things like that." I don't know if it's more frightening to think that this employee actually believes such an absurd idea or that he really doesn't know why this mle exists. 
The applicability of these rules is another interesting point. Students may not wear sleave­less shirts, cut-ofT shirts, tank-tops, "provocative clothing," etc. Sounds like a fitting plan for a lit­ness center, except I think I misplaeed my parochial school whites. The best part is that staff members magically fail to notice when aer­obic instructors stroll in wearing sports bras and a veritable thong. Maybe they support daily flossing, but otherwise, I can't understand the inconsistency . 
The last issue I wish to discuss is the rule a sharp set of knives is looking out for our safety. 
The bottom line is that in establishing such a high-tech, high-maintenance facility li1r sports and recreation, the good folks at HeeSports havn lost sight of who this fitness center was designed to aceomrnodate: students. It's supposed to bn for our enjoyment, but one gets the sense that it's more like a museum. 
I don't know what committee put together the guidelines li1r student use of Boll's, but I suspect that they had no clue why they eame up with them. Apparently. !Wither do the people they hired. If HecSports is wondering whore we all went, we're over at the Hoek. 
Josh Akers Senior 
Oft~Campus 
March 23, 1998 
MacMahon Devoid ofRational Thought 
While I don't necessarily feel "compelled" to respond to David McMahon's column from Wednesday, I feel the need to credit him. lie has really outdone himself this time, something I imagined impossible a couple of weeks ago. Who would have expected this week's column to be even more paranoid and devoid of logic and rational thought? 
His attack on McDonald's paves the way for a tirade motivated by class envy and shoddy fact­gathering. Infected beef? I'll leave that accusa­tion to the judgment of other readers. Attacking corporate welfare and speaking of "robber barons," he shows a lack of plain common sense. But what his column lacks in substance it certainly makes up for in exaggeration and flowery phrases. 
Of course, if you read his article devoted to trashing and insulting HOTC, you already understand Mr. McMahon's writing style. Hather than address the fact that his column was adequately destroyed intellectually by Observer readers, he instead chose to add even more insults and hide further from the truth. 
What exactly is meant by accusing ROTC members of "false patriotism" anyway? I fail to understand how someone can judge the sinceri­ty of someone else's patriotism in such a man­ner. But what else would we expect from some­one who dropped HOTC and still fancies himself an expert of U.S. foreign policy? 
Next he treats us with his "crystal clear" truths. which state the following: 1) The Gulf War was for resource retainment; 2) Notre Dame is hypocritical for having ROTC; and 3) War is never the solution. To address the first point, oil was a large reason for our involve­ment in the Gull', but obviously not the only one. I seem to recall liberating Kuwait while we were over there. The second "truth" has already been eloquently proven wrong by other letters. And when you factor in the Just War Theory and the fact that ROTC at Notre Dame stresses deterrence, this fact doesn't hold up well at all. 
The third point interests me the most. As a Marine Option in the NHOTC program. I enrtain­ly wish that there were never a need for war. Unfortunately, there is. Look at the lloloeaust and at Hitler's evil reign in the first place. Was World War II won by dancing around in the tulips and singing folk songs? Of course not. It was only through sheer li1rcc that we stopped Germany and the Axis Powers. War is a neces­sary evil to be avoided at all costs, but it does have its place, whether WI) like it or not. 
After "warning" Notre Dame students about their "life of serfdom" to look forward to, McMahon resumes his attack on HOTC and mentions My Lai as if it were standard military policy. That's as extreme as calling us "baby killers." Unfortunately, many people do have this mind set. When my father served in the Marine Corps in Vietnam, he would visit orphanages on weekends along with his bud­dies. But I guess we don't report positive aspects in this eountry. do we? That's okay. If we did then it wouldn't be so easy to demonize the military, now would it? This ~~xplains Mr. McMahon's ignorance. 
I hope that in his ell'orts to avoid a "life of serfdom," Mr. McMahon doesn't spend too much lime making a fool of himself in the Viewpoint section. There must be someone who will take his views seriously. But at a place where we are taught to view history objectivnly and fairly, he will remain a laughing stock filled with bittemess and paranoia. 
I don't know about you, but I can't wait until his next column. 
Dustin P. Ferrell Sophomore, Zahm Hall April 2, 1998 

Friday, April 3, 1998 ------------------------~OBSERVER --------------------------------------------pagell 
~1fJhJ11I1lg§ ~llrnf'lt wJhCEllt ttJhey lUl§ecdl lt((J) Ibe)) 
40 Years of the Collegiate Jazz Festival 
By LAURA PETELLE 
Scene Wrirer 
Forty years ago, in the late fall of 1958, Tom Cahill was wandering the halls of LaFortune. A'i "Affairs Commissioner," the senior was responsible for orga­nizing events and diversions for the then-all-male student body of Notre Dame. He was look­ing for a new event that would draw the student body. 
Hearing a few musicians prac­ticing in LaFortune, Cahill decided that music might be the key. And not just any music ­jazz. A festival devoted to collegiate jazz. 
In 1958, Notre Dame fea­tured a jazz dance band called the Lettermen, which played the dances after the football games. The Lettermen, led by architecture major Gene Bertoncini, were wildly popular. Jazz was defmitely part of the scene at Notre Dame. 
Jazz wasn't yet taught in colleges, with a very few exceptions, but there were a lot of good college bands out there -many of them dance bands like the Lettermen. 
Cahill recruited his friend Bill Graham, student-body vice presi­dent. who loved the idea of jazz festival. Unlike the new "rock-and-roll" craze sweeping the nation, jazz was established enough that the priests who ran Notre Dame would not frown on the idea of a festival devoted to jazz. And jazz was popular with the stu­dents: a Louis Armstrong concert two years earlier had been a sellout. 
The two students called Charles Suber, publisher of the Chicago­based magazine DownBeat. the fore­most source of jazz information in America. To their surprise, Suber took their call and invit­ed them to come visit him in person. With no permission yet from the administra­tion and only the bare bones of an idea, they showed up in Chicago to visit Suber. 
Suber. at that time, was heavily involved in the push to introduce jazz educa­tion in the schools, and saw in this new type of festival a chance to promote that education. 
Suber threw his wholehearted support behind the idea, offering to lind judges, help organize the festival, and publicize it
in DownBeat. He then sent 
Cahill and Graham over to visit Frank Holztiend, the owner of the Blue Note Jazz Room on North Clark Street, Chicago's top jazz club. 
and an engagement at the Blue Note for the festival's winner. 
Arriving back on campus, Cahill and Graham orga­nized a festival committee, procured a small budget, and selected a date -April 11. There was 
some difficulty in choosing a venue ­Washington Hall was too small and Saint Mary's auditorium was unavailable -but the committee settled on the Old Fieldhouse. The com­
mittee sent out invitations to several midwestern schools, and received back 35 applications. Sixteen were accepted. The festival was set up as a one-day event, with two sessions: 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. for the preliminaries and 8 p.m. to 10 p.m·. for the showdown of the fmal­
ists. 
The morning of April 11, 1959, arrived, and judges­always a mixed group of professional musicians, jazz critics, club owners, and broadcasters -and bands began to roll in. Serving as judges for that first festival were Suber, Holzfiend, Chicago's WGN-radio music director Robert Trendier, and jazz accordionist Art Van Damme. Suber brought a friend with him -Father George Wiskirchen, an alumnus of Notre Dame and the director of Notre Dame High School's jazz band, the Melodons, which was winning national 
attention. At 1 p.m., the festival kicked off. There were almost no spec­tators. As the afternoon wore on, WSND broadcast snatch­
es of the festival, inter­views, and publicity blurbs. Students walking 
by heard the noise and stopped in to see what it was. By 3:30p.m., there were 1,200 people 
-in the audience. For the evening session, the Fieldhouse was packed with close to 2,000 jazz fans. 
The winner of the first festival was the University Jazz Workshop Quartet from the University of Minnesota. Second place went to Dave's Band from Indiana University. Third place was awarded to Ohio State's band, and fourth place went to the Bob Pierson Quartet of the University of Detroit. 
The first annual Midwest Collegiate Jazz Festival was a success. "It's the finest affair I've ever been 
to; it just knocked me out," said Van Damme, one of the judges, in an inter­view with 
Scholastic. The fes­
t iva I h a s changed a lot since then. It is still a student-run festival, orga­nized by Student Union Board 
Photos courtesy of Father George Wiskirchen 
Through the decades, Notre Dame jazz has undergone changes in style, clothing and technology. 
Top left: The 1972-73 Notre Dame Jazz Ensembe was the 
first year of NO jazz.
Top right: The 1973-74 Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble. Middle left: The 1977-78 Notre Dame Jazz Combo. Middle right: The1978-79 Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble. Bottom left: The 1982-83 Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble. 
(SUB) and carried out by student volunteers. This year's festival chair is junior Lisa Zimmer, who also chaired the festival last year. 
In its second year, the festival dropped the word "Midwest" from its name, becoming simply the "Collegiate Jazz Festival," recognizing that the bands who would attend the festival come from all over the nation. It also expanded 
to a two-day event. By 1961, other jazz festi­vals were springing up at 
colleges across the nation, most of them modeled after 
Notre Dame's. The year 1964 fea­
tured the first "judges jam," in which the instrument­playing judges get together and offer a jam session concert for the 
audience. 
The festival moved to Stepan Center in 1967. Also in 1967, the committee began an adjunct high school jazz festival. The high school festival ended in 
1979, due to budget cuts for 1980's festival. The 1969 festival featured a "jazz Mass," presided over by Wiskirchen and another 
priest. The 1970 festival featured the first female chairperson -Ann Heinrichs 
of Saint Mary's College. Heinrichs began to reduce the amount of competition in the festival. Many ,observers remarked that the competition took away from good, improvisational jazz, by encour­aging much of the final ses­sion to be rehearsed solos 
rather than impro­visations. The competitive judg­
ing was phased out of the festival, replaced by individual critiques by the judges. 
Over the years, the festival has welcomed as judges such jazz greats as Stan Kenton, pianist Bill Evans, com­poser Henry Mancini, saxophonist Cannonball Adderley, trumpeter Clark Terry, the multi-tal­ented Quincy Jones, Father George Wiskirchen, pianist Herbie Hancock, bassist Ray Brown, critic Dan Morganstern, bassist Charlie Haden, saxophonist Sonny Rollins, singer Dee Dee Bridgewater, saxophon­ist David Sanborn, trumpeter Lew Soloff, drummer Tony Williams, trumpeter Wynton Marsalis, saxo­phonist Branford Marsalis, bassist Ron Carter, trum­peter Terrence Blanchard, saxophon­
ist Paquito D'Rivera, and bassist Dave Holland. The past 40 years have been 
quite a show for this, the nation's oldest collegiate jazz festival. This 
year, the pageant of personalities and performances grooves on. The book "Big Noise from Notre Dame: A 
History of the Collegiate Jazz Festival" by 
Holzfiend listened to Cahill and Graham pitch their Bottom right:The 1991-92 Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble. Joseph Kuh Carey contributed to this report. idea, and he too offered his support and assistance ­


page 12 ------------------Friday, April3, 1998 





'1taon't 
••• 
GOlD AINID I8lUIES 
CChe Notre Dame J•tt Ensemllle: CChe insider's euide to what to listen for, who to Iooft for and the averaee heieht of the trombone seetion 

By LAURA PETELLE 
Scene Wri[er 
Tonight at 7:30 p.m., Father George Wiskirchen will snap his lingers and the magic will begin as this week­end's 40th annual Collegiate Jazz Festival kicks ofT with the Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble. 
The festival will showcase a variety of strong and excit­ing bands, but by far the most popular every year is the "hometown band"-the Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Ensemble is an extracurricular group of 17 men and three women, and most of the members are not music majors. 
Six members of the band am in the College of Science, lilur are in en!,rineering, two are in business, two are in the First Year of Studies and six are in the College of Arts and Letters. There are three graduate students (one each in business, music. and science). Band members have majors ranging from music to biology, electrical engi­Iwering to theology. economies to computer applications. 
They hail from Texas, Wiseonsin, Florida, Illinois, Ohio, New York. Alabama, Iowa, Michigan. New Jersey, Owgon. Pennsylvania and Indiana. 
But these 20 young men and women have one thing in common: a love ofjazz. 
It is this love of' jazz that they hope to eommunicate to the audience wlwn they take the stage tonight to play a challenging and fun program. 
The band kicks oil' its set with a straight-ahead blues piece, "Blues for Basie," written and arranged by McCoy Tyner. The song begins with a solo by the talented pianist Alexei Moraezewski. The theme is an upbeat tra­ditional 12-bar blues. 
Graduate student Erik Roberts takes the next solo, with a strong and secure trumpet line. Roberts hands ofT to junior Jeff Spoonhower, one of the band's premier soloists. Spoonhower's lively trombone solo is always a crowd-pleaser. 
Also keep an ear out for the fun and free-wheeling drum solo from senior Greg VanSlambrook. As Observer writer Sylvester Gorman said in 1995, VanSlambrook's freshman year, "If not for his drumming skill, one should at least go see VanSlambrook play because he has a great name for a drummer." 
"Pools," written by Don Grolnick and arranged by John Fedchock, is a cool funk featuring the guitars. Expect VanSlambrook's drums to lay down a solid funk line. The opening theme features freshmen Jason Shea on bass and Brendan Mowery on guitar. 
Listen for junior Keith Syska on soprano sax wailing over a cool groove, and keep an ear out for the saxo­phones on a soli section. 
Also notable in "Pools" are some truly funky sounds from Shea's bass as he cranks out his solo. 
"Huby My Dear" is the band's only ballad. Written by Thelonius Monk and arranged by Bill Holman, it's a mel­low jazz standard. "Ruby My Dear" features seniors Jim Dolezal on tenor sax and Moraczewski on piano. The two have been playing together in jazz band since their fresh­man year, and both are true standout members of the band. Dolezal and Moraczewski both play extended solos. 
The song is underlined by ringing basslines and smooth background chords from the brass section. 
"Religious Experience" is a piece in three movements, written and arranged by Carla Bley. The first movement, entitled "Exaltation," is a hymn arranged as a chorale, first in the piano and then in the brass. The second movement, "Religous Experience," is a free-form work featuring VanSlambrook on drums and Dolezal on tenor sax. 
The third movement, "Major," is a fun and ofT-beat song-in more ways than one. This movement changes meter -from 4/4 to 3/4, with the occasional 3/8 -in almost every bar. The opening of "Major" features the trombone section -Spoonhower, sophomore Steve Donndelinger, junior Jared Garza, !,traduate student Don Peterson, and junior Phil Erskine. The trombones are then joined by a bouncy and erratic trumpet line. 
Syska whips out some wild lines in his alto solo, and lead trumpet player and graduate student Luvin Villarnal answers with a solo of his own. As the song drives toward the end, listen for Shea to take the bass line way up the neck of his electric and for tho "llallnlujah" rill' stolen from llandel's "Messiah." 
The band's closer is "Flying Home," composed by Benny Goodman and Lionel I Iampton and arranged by Wardell Quezergue. An up-beat, tap-your­feet song, "Flying Home" will keep you whistling and humming all the way home. It opens with a theme played by sax and guitar. Listen for guitarist Mowery's high­speed fingers on the theme. 
Mowery is featured again in the first solo sedion. Then seniors Dolezal and Brian Miller, both playing tenor, trade lines back and forth. Keep an ear out for the syrupy trombone scoops near the end -and the visual antics that go along with them. 
And speaking of the trombones, the section's average height is 6-feet, even. 

: Senior Greg VanSiambrook bangs on the drum all day. 
: The nimble fingers of senior Alexei Moraczewski play the piano. 
Junior Phil Erskine blows some hot air into his bass trom­bone. 
Photos by The Observer/Kevin Dalum 


page 13 


By LAURA PETELLE State, Western Michigan ond year in a row. After putting Scene Writer University and the University of on a successful show last year, Michigan are the guest bands Zimmer is enthusiastic about The 40th annual Notre Dame featured this year's festival. being in the driver's seat again. Collegiate Jazz Festival will Oberlin, Western Michigan and ''I'm really excited about the open tonight with an assort-Central University each sent festival," Zimmer said. ''I'm ment of talent sure to satisfy two groups-a full band and a putting a big education twist on even the most demanding jazz combo. it this year. I offered free pass­fan. Emceeing the festival again cs to schools within a 50-mile Notre Dame's Collegiate Jazz t h i s radius so they could send their festival is the oldest such festi-music groups. There's not real-val in the nation, and one of ly a competition aspect to it 
th~l~~ 0i~~~kr~~~~: as a col-Collegiate Jau Festival--anb~co~e~oit:~ea~r~e~;~ 
~~r~ai~e t'~:~:!.~t~:l. Schedule of Events b~c:ou~e w~~~~ 
collegiate jazz fes-they stand." tival in the eoun-" T h e try," festival Saturday,April4 judges I'm 
chair Lisa 1100 CI'{N D BdB!Idi) really
Zimmer said. : a.m. iniCS otre ame an Ul• 1ng excited "I don't think Friday, April3 1:30 p.m. loui~ana State Univers~y J_azz Ensemb~ a b 0 u t ·" 
we at Notre s h e Dame real-7:30p.m. Notre Dame Jau Ensemble 2:15p.m. University of Alabama Jazz Ensemble s a i d . 
iz:rthl~t.·; s 8:\Sp.m. OberhnCombo 3:00p.m. Centra1MichiganUniversity ·:u~g~s~ 
23
year. 900: p.m. Nthor t 111:Ilno1s'u· 't 345: en re D' · Penn Stt ·am
eas ern mvers1 y p.m. C t 1mens1ons, a e is 
bands going applied for 9:45p.m. Notre Dame Combo BREAK 
to be 
14 spots. 
.. w 10:30 p.m. University of North Florida 7:30 p.m. Central Michigan Jazz Percussion ended uP Jazz Ensemble and Steel Drum Ensemble
taking more bands than 11:15 p.m. Judges' Jam 8:15p.m. Western Michigan Jazz Quintet 
we usually do because there 9:00p.m. Oberlin Jazz Ensemble 
were so many 
9:45 p.m. University of Michigan Combo t r u m Pe t e r 
good bands." Claudio Zimmer said. 10:30 p.m. Western Michigan Jazz OnlltiRrl R0 diti • saX 0­
The Notre Dame 
phonist Frank Jazz Ensemble. as Wess, pianist Jim usual, will kick off the McNeely, bassist contest tonight at 7:30 p.m. 
Charnett Moffett and and Notre Dame's own jazz drummer Carl Allen as combo will play later this judges. evening. year will Roditi, a powerful and lyrical 
Oberlin College, Northeastern be the ever-popular Curtis player, incorporates post-bop Illinois University, the Norvett who is also a member and Brazilian rhythm into one University of North Florida, of the festival committee. smooth idea. Roditi has per­Louisiana State University, the The Collegiate Jazz Festival formed with Tito Puente, University of Alabama, Central committee is chaired by Paquito D'Rivera and McCoy Michigan University, Penn Zimmer, a junior, for the see-Tyner. 
Roditi has recorded several of his own albums, the most recent of which is "Milestones," awarded Best Jazz CD of 1992 by "CD Review." Other record­ings include "Double Standards" and "Free Wheelin' Music Of Lee Mor." 
Septuagenarian saxophonist Wess has been playing music since he was 10. While in his 20s, Wess led a 17 -piece swing band that played con­certs for Allied 
in g World War II. 
After the war, he studied for a bache­lor's degree in music, then joined the Count Basie 1998 Orchestra and toured the world Collegiate for 11 years, J once performing azz 
for Queen Festival 
Elizabeth II of d England. Ju ges
When he left Count Basie, Wess moved to New York. He played 
Frank Wess
in pit 
·Opus De Blues
orches­
•Tryin' to Make My
tras for 
Blues Turn Green Claudio Roditi ·Double Standa·~:; ·Free Wheelin' Musit 
of Lee Mor 
Jim McNeely ·Winds of Change ·bst i.oast Blow Out 
CharneH MoHeH ·Planet Home 
·Beauty Within 
Broadway hits such as "Golden Boy," with Sammy Davis Jr. and "Sugar Babies," with Mickey Rooney. He worked for TV network orchestras on the Dick Cavett Show and the David Frost Show and performed with the Benny Goodman Septet and the Dizzy Gillespie Dream Band. 
He recorded with Nat King Cole, Ella Fitzgerald, and Sarah Vaughn. He recorded his own albums, including "Trying to Make My Blues Turn Green" and "Opus De Blues." Wess also composed soundtracks for films, including the perennially popular "When Harry Met Sally." 
McNeely began his career as the piano player for the groups of trumpeters Ted Curson and Chet Baker. He joined the Than Jones/Mel Lewis Jazz Orchestra in 1978 and spend six years as a featured soloist in that group. 
He played four years with the Stan Getz Quartet and several with the Phil Woods Quintet. He currently leads his own trio. 
His recent work as a compos­er/arranger includes projects with the Carnegie Hall Jazz Band. His arrangement of "Sing, Sing, Sing" for that group recently earned him a Grammy Award nomination. 
MeNeely has several albums to his credit, including "Winds Of Change"and "East Coast Blow Out." "East Coast Blow Out" was awarded five stars by DownBeat 
magazine. 
A support­
er of jazz 
~ 
r '~~~n: 
~ ~ McNeely 
has served 
on the faculty 
at New York 
University since 
1981. He is current­
ly the adjunct resident 
artist in jazz studies. He regu­larly attends college jazz festi­vals as a performer and clini­cian, and is often involved in summer workshops such as Jamey Abersold's Summer Jazz Clinics. 
Moffett has been a "profes­sional" musician since age eight. An innovative musician, he has recorded several albums featuring melodies played on the bass. His 1989 album "Beauty Within" showcased his range and lyricism as a musi­cian. 
Moffett has also been involved in projects with alto saxophonist Kenny Garret, pianist Geri Allen, and drum­mer Charles Moffett. He record­ed an album with his father in 1995 entitled "Moffett and Sons." 
Allen, a classically trained percussionist, is proficient on mallet instruments as well as drum set. He is also a respected composer, lecturer and clini­cian. 
Allen has recorded with such 
personalities as George 
Coleman, Branford Marsalis, 
and Lena Horne. 
Another staunch supporter of jazz education, Allen conducts clinics and workshops on both drumming and jazz across the 
U.S. and abroad. He says his composing is inspired by authors such as Toni Morrison and Langston Hughes. 
"We're just going to try and have fun," Zimmer said. 
~-~----~-~------~ --.......--~~-~-~--~----------~­

.. 

~rom si[entJilms to rock •n ro[[: CEfco stiff attracts crowds 
By KRISTI KUTSCH Scene Editor 
Until two years ago. the Elco Performing 
Arts Center was a deteriorating structure on 
Ukhart's main street. 
The Elco opem~d it.<; doors on Nov. 24. 1924 
as the Lerner Theater. named after Harry E. 
Lerner, a local businessman who funded the 
construction. The Lerner Theater entertained 
audinnces with vaudeville acts and silent films. 
The orir.,rinal theater had 2,200 seats, signifi­
cantly larger than other theaters built during 
that time. 
It was designed by K.M. Vitzham of Chicago 
and the interior was a combination of cream 
and blue with gold trim. The theater included 
11 backstage dressing rooms, an elevator, a 
1 ,600-light marquee, a pipe organ and pit for a 
24-piece orchestra. 
Lerner sold the thoater in 1931 to the Warner Brothers Theaters and the interior wa.<> changed to red and pink. Warners' own­ership was short-lived and after his bankrupt­cy in 1932, the Indiana/Illinois Theatre Company took over. It was under this owner­ship that the name of the theater was changed to The Elco. 
Indiana/Illinois sold the theater to the Manta and Rose chain in 1940 and in 1961 the the~ atllr was bought by William Miller, owner of Millers Theaters. Miller owned The Elco until his death in 1987 and in 1990, Mrs. Huth Millt~r sold her husband's theater to the City of Elkhart. A non-profit corporation called Prmnier Arts. Inc. then formed and reached an agn~r,ment with the city to continue the opera­tion of The Elco as a performing arts center. 
In order to continue operation. much exteri­m· and interior work was needed on the Elco. Premier Arts formulated a five-year plan ·to receive funding trom miscellaneous grants and foundations to renovate the Elco. Improvements included interior painting on the main floor, restoration of the Grand Lounge, new carpeting on the main floor, new snating on the main floor and new lighting fix­tures. 
The City of Elkhart became involved in both organization and finances in 1995. Dale Balsbaugh, managing director for the Elco, was hired in 1996, and the city also recognized the need tor an annual operations budget. 
In addition to funding from the City of Elkhart, the National Endowment for the Arts oOi!red a grant to help renovate the theater. This money ha.-; been used to clean up the the­ater. install fire escapes. improve the electrici­ty and plumbing of the building, and renovate the drPssing rooms. 
This year, the 1,939-seat Elco. has hosted a variety of groups. concerL'> and performances. 
"We [the Elco) are not a promoter. Rather we are a renting venue that is open to all," said Dee Hoberson, box oflice manager for the Elro. 
According to Roberson, the Elco has held cir­cus acts, Christian rock concerts, rock 'n roll eon<'erts. junior and high school theater per­formances and many others. Upcoming events are the Black Expo Blues and Jazz Festival, "The Diary of Anne Frank,"a jazz festival, and a December Winter Fest. 
"We are expecting a full calendar for '99,~ Hoberson said. 
Thl'> Sunday. the Elco will be featuring the Violent Femmes in concert, sponsored by JAM and Jay Goldberg Events Production. Doors will open at 6:30 p.m. and the concert will begin at 7:30p.m. For more information, call TicketMaster at 219-272-7979. 
• • • I,
-·l·d·
• • • • 1~;
WI: : =•·•·•· 

By KRISTI KUTSCH 
Scene Editor 
"Let me go wild, like a blister in the sun... " 
Although many people instantly recognize these lyrics as part of the Violent Femmes' song "Blister in the Sun," few fans actually know the history of the popular rock 'n' roll band. 
The band was officially discov­ered playing in the parking lot outside a Pretender's concert on a fateful night in 1982. Former Pretender James Honeyman Scott spot­ted them playing and, impressed by their style and flair. invited them to open for The Pretenders that very _night. 
Gordon Gano, vocalist and gui­tarist, described the rocky start of the band in a press release by Borman Entertainment. 
"We would play acoustically and we would play on the strePt because we couldn't get any place to play inside. Our peers would often cross the street and pretend they didn't know us because they thought it was just embarrassing, what we were doing." 
But after signing a contract with Slash Records and releasing tlwir first album "Violent Femmes" in 1982, the unknown band became a respncted and crucial part of the rock 'n roll industry with the legendary hits "Blister in the Sun," "Kiss Off' and "Add 1t Up." 
"Qur first album has been the most popular one, overwhelming. It's something that people keep finding out about and getting into. As we speak, somebody's just made a tape of it and has given it to a friend. It's a record that gets passed down through generations," Gano said in the Borman Entertainment press release. 
The band released "Hallowed Ground" in 1984 and "The Blind Leading the Naked" in 1986. The band broke up for a few years after the release of "The "Blind Leading the Naked," due to Gano's interest in gospel music. Bitchie also realeased a few solo albums during this time, but the band re-grouped to release the album "3" in 1988 and "Why Do Birds Sing'?" in 1991. 
In 1993, long-time friend of the band, Guy Hoffman, joined members Gano and Brian Ritchie, as the replacement for the original Femmes' drummer Victor DeLorenzo. Hoffman plays the drums as well as sings, and Hitchie plays bass and sings. Hoffman was a for­mer member of the Bodeans, as well as the wave band The Oil Tasters. 
Hoffman has been touring with the Femmes since 1993 and contributed to their 1993 album entitled "Add It Up (1981­
1993). The band also released "New Times" in 1994 and "Hock!!!" 
in 1995, although this album was only released in Australia. The Violent Femmes have just finished their 
ninth album "Freak Magnet," which will be released in May with lnterseope 
Heeords. 
The album difrers from their previous work, according to 
Hitchie. "Anytime we see a little continuity, it seems as it we don our best to throw a wrench into things. That makes it difficult for peo­ple to get a handle on what we do, but it makes it inter­esting for us," he said in an lnterscope Becords press release. "Freak Magnet" features some work by French avant-garde composer Pierre Henry, as well as other songs ''I'm 
Bad" and "Most Pit." 
The Violent Femmes will grace Elkhart with tlwir legendary stage performance and crazy antics on Sunday evening. The band will play at the !~leo Theater at 7:30p.m. 
VIOLENT FEMMES 
DISCOGRAPHY 
1982·Violent Femmes 1984 ·Hallowed Grouno 986 ·T~e Blino leading the Noked 
1988-3 
1991 -W~y Do Birds Sing? 
•NewTimis' 1993. Add It Up 11981-1993)
1994 
1995 ·Rock!!! 
May 1998 ·Fr~~ Magnet 
The Observer/Dave Piening 
lj 

Friday, April3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 
Majerus turns do-wn Arizona State, -will stay at Utah ,. 

KAT photo 
Less than a week after leading Utah to the Final Four, coach Rick Majerus announced he will stay at Utah. 
John M.Marshall's, Inc. 
Jeweler I Gemologist I Mineralogist 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat Yellow Gold or Platinum. Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
John M~ Marshall's, Inc. 
Established 1965 Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, 10a.m. to 6p.m. KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 
Associated Press 
were 18-14 and earned an NIT 
PHOENIX 
Rick Majerus said Thursday he's staying in Utah despite a reported $1 million-a-year offer from Arizona State. 
"I wish them all the luck in the world," Majerus said on ESPN. ''I'm staying where I'm at." 
He declined to say how much the offer was. 
"Arizona State is a wonderful situation, a tremendous school. (Athletic director) Kevin White is a good friend. His kids are going to my camp," Majerus said. "It was flattering. I think you should listen. You explore options. It doesn't hurt to talk. I'd rather not do it publicly." 
Sean Moore, a spokesman for Arizona State's athletic depart­ment, declined to comment. Majerus was the only major name mentioned for the job. 
Arizona State's basketball program has been in disarray since Bill Frieder resigned under fire in September. In the interim, two former players pleaded guilty to conspiring to fix four games .in 1994. 
Despite that, the Sun Devils bid this season under interim coach Don Newman. But the school made it clear from the get-go that Newman wasn't getting the job. 
School officials have made it clear they want a coach with the skills and reputation to turn Arizona State into a national champion, on par with what intrastate rival Arizona has accomplished under Lute Olson. 
The Majerus watch began almost before Frieder was out the door, and it was no surprise when athletic director White went to San Antonio this week to meet with Majerus, who took the Utes into the NCAA final before losing to Kentucky. 
The Arizona Republic and The Arizona Daily Star both reported Thursday that White offered bounty worth at least $1 million a year. School offi­cials have declined to comment publicly on the deal. 
Utah had given Arizona State permission to talk with Majerus. He said he decided to stay mid-day Thursday, a few hours before going on the air with ESPN's Chris Myers. 
. , . . . .'<~;:t,:~/!!rrs&~"'~~ •: 

,~:=~s~:~~;~~~sign 
'~~'i"?4'i·''''251'-07'~11 .. 2-~~~ :i,,{lf 
Pr!11fL'J!l!£LCl:!~tn~~1tl!.!fi~2~~S.'!Yllt~ 
Perm & Haircut $50.00 Reg $65.00 ::. HiLite $45.00 Reg $75.00 :: With Lisa :!I Expires April 30 :r. , 1 Free Gift with Perm Service :: ·.~,..,... __--..,.-,..,-,..,.--------------c-c------,..,.,...:------.':'"-----.JI 
; >, · Q.irt:utwith Erin <$12,00,' expires April3Q.
········•····· qo#zpltmenii)f.'YFi~sir,Tim.~{ran<.:.:<· ·····.·.,;. 
·,,,,: 

..... == 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 3, 1998 
"It gave me real good experi­in basketball. have been a lot of things going papers and that's what I'm ence to see how different teams But when Jackson stepped on on and he's handled them well. doing," Jackson said. "He basi­
Jackson 
play, how different teams campus, he had a new lesson to I think the big thing with cally hung around people who 
react," Jackson said. learn-patience. Jarious is that he is a very were positive and that's basi­
continued from page 24 
"Getting into the games really In his freshman campaign, he intelligent guy and a very com­cally what I've also picked up helped him and was a big did not see the field on game­mitted guy. He wants to be from Hon."
accustomed to seeing. 
plus," Colletta said. "He's been day, as he sat behind Powlus good. He's hung in there Jackson and his teammatesJackson and fellow quarter­in games and made some big and Tom Krug. The next year through that and now it's his have 12 more practices thisbacks Zak Kustok, Eric Chappel 
plays and he knows what it's he saw action in six games, time." spring including the Blue-Goldand incoming freshman Arnez like to play where he had to attempting just 15 passes. But "''ve just been a patient per­game. With that in mind, hisBattle all fit the mold of signal carry the load and I think that he thought that his sophomore son about the whole situation," goals are clear.
callers who have the athletic 
will help him going into the year would be his final season Jackson explained. "When I fig­"I just want to keep improv­ability to scramble and make 
fall." of waiting. ured I had to wait two to three ing my throwing and pick upsomething out of nothing. 
Sanford agreed that Jackson Holtz's resignation followed years, I just started focusing on more speed," said Jackson. "IFormer head coach Lou Holtz grew during his limited playing by Powlus' decision to return academics more and now there want to be more aggressive and
recruited Jackson precisely 
time. for a fifth year put "Action is more of a balance. Now my want the team to be morebecause of his speed and ability 
"I think him playing in the mind is definitely more into aggressive."
to run the option similar to for­
games was really good for him football than it was in the When asked if he felt confi­
mer Irish quarterbacks Kevin 
to get game experience," past." dent that he could lead NotreMcDougal. Hick Mirer, and 
'WE'RE GOING TO 
Sanford said. "It's a big differ­In his first three years at Dame back toward the top, heTony Hice. 
ence from practice experience HAVE SOME WRIN­Notre Dame, Jackson did more responded like one familiar"We're putting a little more 
to game experience and he had than learn marketing in the with the press.
burden on the quarterback in KLES IN THERE WHERE HE IS 
a chance to get in there for the College of Business "I feel strong about it, but it's terms of being a third running heat of the battle and that GOING TO RUN WITH THE Administration in which he is going to take a lot more than
back," Colletto said. "All of 
makes a difference." enrolled. lie took advantage of me," .Jackson commented. "It's
them fit in that category and FOOTBALL. I THINK THAT 
Last year's offense that saw his time on the sidelines, serv­going to take a whole team
we're doing what fits their 
TAKES ADVANTAGE OF HIS
the most pass attempts and ing as the understudy to effort. I'm del"initely going toskills." 
completions by a Notre Dame TALENTS.' Pow Ius. try to do my part no matter"We're doing some things to 
team in history also aided "Ron taught me a lot as far as what it takes, no matter what Itake advantage of his abilities," 
Jackson's development into a the game of football; as far as have to sacrifice."
Sanford explained. "We're 
more complete quarterback. MIKE SANFORD, QUARTERBACK studying films, watching differ­Although .Jackson is sur­
going to run a little more 
"As far as my passing skills, I ent coverages, and how to look rounded with enthusiasm and
option, we're going to move the COACH, ON }ARJOUS JACKSON feel they've improved by open­people off," Jackson said. "I excitement to see him play, he
quarterback around a little bit ing up the offense more and Jackson" back on the shelf for just picked up little different is trying to just take it one snapmore and throw on the run a 
doing di!Terent things," Jackson another season. things from Hon by just watch­at a time.
little bit more. We're going to 
explained. "My feelings weren't too ing him and him teaching me ''I'm just going to go out and
have some wrinkles in there 
Coming to Notre Dame and bad," Jackson said. "I didn't things." play my game," said Jackson.
whom he is going to run with being forced to the sidelines really feel down, but my moth­Jackson also learned why ''I'm not going to try to do any-.
the football. I think that takes was something new for Jackson er kept me in it and I just said I being the starting quarterback thing spectacular or go out and
advantage of his talents. I'm 
exeited about it and I think who only came off the field for have to live with it. He had to under the Dome is the toughest try to do something I know I .Jarious is ready for it. This is half-time in high school. At make this decision for his job in college football. Powlus can't do. Whatever I practice Tupelo lligh School, he earned future and I may have to make was the focus of media and fan and get real comfortable with.
his chance. lie's got work to do three letters in football playing the same decision next year. I scrutiny. Now, Jackson will be that's what we're going to do."
and improvement to make but quarterback, defensive back can't fault him for it. He was under the microscope as there ''I'm just taking it in stride,"he's ready for it." 
The decision to play Jackson and outside linebacker. doing what was best for his is already talk of Arnez Battle Jackson continued. "I know the Jackson also kept himself busy career." and what he brings to the table. season is there and I think
in certain situations last season 
gave him much-needed game outside of football season earn­"I think he's handled it all "I don't think Ron worried about it every now and then, experience and helped his mat­ing two letters in track as a real well," Sanford said. "There about what people said as far but I don't want to overwhelm uration process. sprinter and one as a forward has been a lot of change. There as what's going on in the myself too early." 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day lrom 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classilieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classilieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/1. 
Europe $290 o/w. Other worldwide 
destinations cheap. ONLY TER­
RORISTS GET YOU THERE 
CHEAPER! Air-Tech 
(212)219-7000. (800)575-TECH. 
www.airtech.com 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE. 
AND WEEKENDSII! Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Frl 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon -Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
WANTED 
Students! Looking for flexible 
hours? lnt'l Health & Nutrient Co. offering competitive wages to moti­
vated individuals. 
243-8009 
TAIWAN lnt'l Health Co. expanding into Taiwan in May. Looking for 5 peo­ple interested in this int'l expansion. 271-0912 
Need a summer job? ND Alums looking for a warm, energetic stu­dent to care for our 3 children (ages 5, 3 & newborn). Daytime Daytime hours, no weekends. June-mid­August. Live in or out (private bed/bath). Great location il'l Pasadena, CA. Will pay travel to/from CA. Negotiable wage. Call Mimi@ 626-794-5426 or e-mail MimiandPT@ msn.com 
SUMMER AIIID FALL EMPLOY­MENT: DECISION SCIENCES JOURNAL Student who can work 8-12 hours per week. Must have an eye for detail, organized & able to work independently. For more informa­tion call Lori Butchko. 631-9084. MW 8-5 or Friday 8-noon. 
Babysitter needed for delightful 2-year-old boy this summer: M-F days, 20 or more hours per week, flexible hours. Transportation provided if needed. Experience/ references preferred. $6/hr. Call Jan 243-1058. 
Internet interships in Washington! Journalism, web design. PR. public policy, sales! Call Ben: 202-408­0008 or interns@ interactivehq.org 
Family of 1 1/2 year old and soon to be newborn, looking for part-time, flexible babysitter. Person must be available one day a week (part day) and some weekend nights. Great extra money! Please call Traci or Ben at 291-3524. 
Summer job on campus! 
Retreats International looking for 
part time responsible person from 
July 5-31. Licensed driver. 
Call1-5320 
FOR RENT 
Now Renting 
Campus View 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 
2 Blocks from campus 
272-1441 
Second round of leasing at College Park Condominiums, few units still available. Please contact office for appointment 272-0691. 
NICE 3 bdr home 2 blks from cam­pus 273-1566 
SUMMER SUBLET Spacious furnished 1 bdrm (big enough for 2). $480/mo + utilities. Call243-2621 
Very Reasonable Rent Looking for mature adult, or grad student. 
Send inquiries to: PTS 1705 South Bend Ave. So. Bend, IN 46637 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
Furn. room, air, kitchen. private entrance. phone. laundry facilities, utilities included. $200/mo. 
272-0615. 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES NORTH OF NO GOOD AREA 2773097 
Nice 3-4 bdrm. bath & 1/2 house. Unfurnished. 2-car garage, gas heat, WID. 10-mo lease. 
$1,050/mo. 
Across from park, safe area. 289­5057. 
2 College Park Apts avail for sum­
mer. 243-5668 
FURNISHED 6 BDRM NEAR CAM­PUS.WASHER/DRYER. FALUSUMMER.272-6551 
1 ,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR 
CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 
272-6551 
DOMUS PROPERTIES 
NOW LEASING 2 HOMES Capacity from 6 -9 students Heat inc. in rent. Both homes are in student populated areas. Completely remodeled and ready for the 98/99 schoolyear. Call Kramer at 674-2571 or 289-5999. 
SUMMER RENTALS AVAILABLE Lease from June to Aug. 1. All houses are surrounded by other student rentals. Call Kramer at 674­2571 or 289-5999. 
1014 N. St. Louis St. 4 bdrms, 2 baths, all appliances, furnished. Walking distance to cam­pus. 234-1440. 
summer school College Park apart­ment: call243-4724 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE 
'98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR. WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE. 234-3831/273-0482 
FOR SALE 
SPACIOUS 1BR CONDO walk to campus 
Call Dianne Killelea 272-5444 
For Sale: Convenient condo living just a few blocks from Notre Dame. Recenily remodeled including bath­room fixtures. 3 bedrooms, 2 full baths & access to clubhouse with pool & work out room. Call Trace Cole at 243-9565 for more informa­tion. 
89 PROBE GT, 112K. $3000 OBO. 4-4303 
For Sale, 90' Honda Accord (Whk) $3,500 OBO. Email : vlow or call Vince @ 257 1734 
TICKETS 
CUBS TICKETS!!!! 
SIX Cubs tickets for the 18th of April. Lower deck on the third base line .... GREAT SEATS FOR CHEAP. These are must sells, so any offer for these tickets are appreciated. 
Contact Bryan at X4948 
PERSONAL 
••ATIENTION ALL FEMALES .. 
Absolut Kurlies IV is looking for 
ladies to contribute to our cause. 
Please call 4-1190 or mail to 259 
Zahm. 
Looking for ride to NJ-ish for 
Easter. help gas/drive X3485 
•••HELP..... 
I need a ride to the St. Louis area for Easter. Will help w/ $ 
Call Jen 4-2783 
You have a very special chance to 
catch, 
UMPHREY'S McGEE 
who will be concluding their 85 date world tour at Michiana's most esteemed oyster bar, which is of course the 
MADISON OYSTER BAR 
with a 3 set show slated to start at 9 pm. That's right, 9 pm, so get there early, kids. The Oyster Bar is locat­ed just west of Niles Ave at 402 E. Madison St. on the east race of the river. The cover will be $2, which will be donated to the Adam Budney "Let's Get Rocked" Foundation, a non-for-profit recreation group. So come out and support the cause ano get a little dancing in in the meantime. 
Hey -did you know... 
We're open early, late, and week­ends for your convenience! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Phone 631-COPY 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love. joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
WHO'S YO' DADDY? the new band with the new sound: you saw them at NAZZ, see them in their own show this FRIDAY at DALLOWAY'S at 9pm! www.nd.edu-sziegler/daddy.html 
Job applications for 98-99: 
LaFortune Building Managers 
Stepan Managers 
Information Desk Attendants 
Ballroom Monitors 
Office Assistants 
Games Room Attendants 
Building Set Up Crew 
24 Hr. Lounge Monitors 
Cake Service 
Sound Techs are due in Student Activities by Thursday, April 9. APPLY NOW! 
SUPPORT LOCAL MUSIC 
The fabulous LETTER 8 and jump blues masters STOMPER BOB keep the support local music week­end jumpin' TONIGHT at the IRISH CONNECTION. Gravity Hill was fabulous last night, come out and supportthelocalscene.Show starts at 10:30, bands downstairs with OJ FONZ & WALKmama spin­ning up the pimp lounge. 
STOMPER BOB & LEDER 8 
To the champ, 
This weekend is ours. Sound of 
Music, Cigarette Runs, and Life 
Decsion Chats. 
Can't wait, 
The Wine-o 
DO YOU HAVE RED HAIR? you too can be one of Satan's min­
ions. Join the VT!!!!!! 
Due to a tragic blimp accident in which Tim Bowers severed his vocal folds, SKALCOHOLICS will not be performing Saturday night at the IRISH CONNECTION. Stepping right up are the amazing OJ FONZ & WALK MAMA. the greatest dj duo this side of South Dakota. Come dance all night, see just why ICon is the place to be. 
one word: KUSH 
(define (x) 
(if(= x 'scheme) 
true 
false)) 
define stupidity ....... . 
(see above) 
seance not accent... seance not 
accent... 
hoosken, be more careful next 
time!! 
why does everyone always take 
what I say out of context? 
GO TO THE COLLEGIATE JAZZ 
FESTIVAL. NOW. 
what the heck does a parliamentari­an do anyway? 
mary.. ;) 
gogogogogogogadget 
remeber jem and the holograms? 
and he-man 
she-ra 
In desperate need of a ride to NJ for Easter. Will pay$$$$$$ and share driving. Call Allison xt421 
to the #1 sunny delight thief at this university ... HIGH FIVE!! 
i will never forget that fateful day when you not only STOLE my sunny d but had the nerve to drink it too. 
forgiveness is another issue. 
hey KK ...what's in that cup?? 
i like it with a straw. 
to the other cuatro generales de Ia cama ... we are going to rock this world. 
carin ... thanks for listening. 
This fine young miss cold gave me a kiss and I knew that she was mine. 
Ya know I see he"r all the time, everywhere I go, and even in my dreams I skeme of ways to make hermine. 
--~ ~-------------~ -----~------~-~--~---~--~---~__,-_,......__....., 
Friday, April 3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• WOMEN's LACROSSE 
Women square off against OSU 
Special to The Observer 
After suffering a loss to Duke last weekend, the women's lacrosse team is looking to rebound tomorrow at Ohio State. 
On Sunday, the Irish fell victim to the No. 5 Blue Devils. 
The 5-3 Irish are looking to revenge last year's loss to the Buckeyes. Ohio State handed Notre Dame an 11-7 loss. Going into the half the Irish had the lead by one but faltered late despite captain Eileen Regan's three goals. Captain Mara Grace also chipped in a goal and had an assist. 
Thus far in the season, the young Irish have been Jed by the freshman. Freshman Courtney 
• SAINT MARY'S TEN!\HS 
Calabrese chipped in five goals in the Davidson contest. Her fel­low teammate freshman Lael O'Shaughnessy scored four. Notre Dame defeated Davidson, 18-11. 
''I'm very pleased with the freshmen we were able to sign in just our first season," head coach Tracy Coyne said. "We got somewhat of a late start, but I feel we ended up with a class that will help fill a lot of our needs." 
While the freshman have chipped in a majority of the goals, the captains have made their presence known. Grace contributed two goals against Davidson and junior Kerry Callahan scored three. 
The Ohio State lacrosse pro­gram is in its third year of exis­tence. Last year, the Buckeyes finished the season 6-7. They are coming off a big win on Thursday against the Duquesne Dukes. 
The win was their fourth of the season. Buckeye junior Laurie Rybak led the team with four goals. Her fellow team­mates, sophomore Gillian Grim and seniors Lorena Opitz and Mara Simpson all chipped in two. 
Ohio State prides itself on its ball control but the Irish are hungry for a win. Look for this to be a fierce battle with the strongest walking away victori­ous . 
page 17 
The Observer/Meg Kroener 
Holly Michael and the Irish will look to avenge last year's loss. 

Ball bounces wrong way for Belles in 9-0 loss to Hope 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Sports Writer 
All hope was not lost Wednesday afternoon, as the Belles performed to their fullest against Hope College. 
However, standing tough was 
not enough, as the Saint Mary's be tough, but I guess we really tennis team suffered a 9-0 loss. had no idea how deep they The team experienced the feel­were," said head coach Robin ing of being on the flip-side of Hyrcko. "Coming in, it was the coin for a change, after really hard for our girls to get a coming off their last win good read on their players, but against Adrian, 9-0 I think with this loss, we have a "We were expecting them to better idea of our strengths and 

weaknesses." 
The match really was not a blow-out, according to Hyrcko. The team put up a fight against one of their most intimidating competitors. They have confi­dence for the future. 
"The good thing is that this will be the toughest team we play and I think it's good to take this loss so early in the season," Hyrko said. 
One of the strongest perfor­mances for the Belles came from the No. 1 singles player, sophomore Katie Vales. Vales lost her first set 6-2, but came back in the second set, taking it to a tie breaker and falling, 8-6. 
"Even though I lost in a tie breaker, it wasn't as if I couldn't have won against Hope," said Vales. "There were a lot of good matches today. I just think that we have to step it up a notch, and we'll be right there with them because we're almost there." 
Other close matches for the day included the No. 2 doubles team of sophomores Becky Kremer and Mary Woodka. The pair lost in a close second match with scores of 6-3, 7-5. Also playing well against Hope was the No. 3 doubles team of sophomore Krista Eastburn and sophomore Leslie Ortiz. They came very close to clinch­ing the first set 7-5, but could not hang on in the second set, losing 6-3. 
The Belles are now hoping to rebound this Saturday as they play at the University of Chicago. 
. "We're pretty much going in blind to this next match," com­mented Hyrcko. "We have never played the University of Chicago because the match has always been canceled in the past. We're just going to try to stay focused and work on our weaknesses, while developing our strengths." 
Like thousands of students 
before him. Jordan knows the value of an associate's degree from Holy Cross College. It's a value ll)easured in personal attention. Whether it's a little extra help with a history paper or guidance selecting the right 
courses for his plans to transfer to Notre Dame. 
.._ With its challenging curriculum. new residential life program and low student-teacher ratio. Holy Cross provides a great start for college success. And when Jordan graduates with his associate's degree. he will have fulfilled many of the requirements for a Notre Dame degree. (As a Holy Cross student. he already takes advantage of many of Notre Dame· s resources.) 
Holy Cross College. Small classes. A caring and accessible faculty. The personal attention you need to be successful. 

-
K f~HOLY ~·~CROSS 
t?'it~ COLLEGE 
P.O. Box 308 • Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 239-8400 • FAX (219) 233-7427 E-mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu Web site: http://www.hcc-nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, April 3, 1997 
• SOFTBALL 
Irish complete three-game sweep of Valparaiso 
-
By BILL HART 
Assistant Spons Editor 
Last season, Notre Dame's softball team went on a 14-1 streak during the month of April to help capture the Big East South Division title. 
Aftt~r the last three outings, it looks like they might be ready to go on yet another tear. 
In a set of outstanding pitching and hit­ting performances, the Irish completed a three-game sweep of Valparaiso yester­day by winning both games in an intrastatB doubleheader. 
In the matinee, the Crusaders threat­ened early in the first inning, placing runners on second and third with one out. However, pitcher Jennifer Sharron got out of the jam with a strike out and a ground ball to the shortstop. The Irish got on the board quickly when Danielle Klayman led off the inning with a double, advanced to third on a bunt single by Kelly Nichols and scored on a fielder's choice by Lisa Tully. Tara King then smacked a single with two outs in the second inning. Kris McCleary followed with a double to score Dawn Cunningham. who pinch-ran for King. 
Klayman led oil" the sixth with a walk, went to second on a ground ball, and scored on a single by Tully. Tully later scored on an error to give Notre Dame the final score of the afternoon and a 4-0 victory. 
Notre Dame was led by King, who went 2-for-2 from the plate with two singles. While Tully only had one hit for the game. she had 2 RBis and scored later on in the sixth. Sharron earned the win, fin­ishing with her sixth complete game aud third shutout of the season. The only downside to the victory were four Irish errors, none of which the Crusaders were able to capitalize on. 
"There's no question that our bats make a big difference in the game," head coach Liz Miller said. "Right now it's 
THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS DIVERSITY PROGRAM 
Invitea ntation by 
Vice-
of Hot and d Hors 
MBA Lou ge, First Fl or COBA 
making up for some mistakes we're mak­ing on defense, which we really have to work and correct." 
In the nightcap, the Crusaders took a quick lead in the second inning, when a walk, sacrifice bunt, and an error off a single scored· Jill Campbell. It would be the only run Valparaiso would score all day, however, as Notre Dame scored four runs in the next three innings to claim a 4-1 victory and sweep the series. 
The Irish tied the score in the third when junior Amy Laboe doubled and later scored after Crusader pitcher Kelley Morris gave up three straight walks. The home team was unable to score again with the bases loaded, but took the lead for good in the fourth when Lisa Tully reached on a fielder's choice, stole sec­ond, advanced to third on a grounder and scored on a single to left field by 
TITANIC (PG-13) DTS 12:00 4:00 8:15 PRNARY COLORS (R) 12:30 3:50 6:50 9:50 
LmTNSPACE(FU13) DTS 
1:15 4:15 7:10 10:00 M E R C U R Y R I 5 I N G (R) 1 :30 4:20 7:00 9:40 ~(PG) 11:45 2:15 4:40 7:15 9:45 t..EET"Tt£ DEEDI..ES (PG) DTS 12:10 2:30 4:50 7:20 9:30 
SaVSun Mat. in [brackets] THE NEWTON BOYS (A) 1:15 4:30 7:30 10:00 THE BORROWERS (PG) 12:45 
2:45 5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS (PG-13) 1:00 4:00 7:00 9:50 
Laboe. 
Notre Dame then padded their lead in the fifth with two more runs, starting with a double by Tara King. After King advanced to third on a wild pitch, fresh­man Lizzy Lemire tripled to left field to score another run. Kelly Rowe's sacrifice bunt drove Lemire home and gave the team a 4-1 lead. 
The Irish were led by Laboe, who went 3-for-3 in the second game with one run and one RBI. Alkire had two hits for the game, including a double in the sixth to improve her average to .317 on the sea­son. Angela Bessolo had another strong outing, fanning eight hitters and allowing only two hits to earn the win and boost her record to 3-6. 
"Angela's been working real hard not to have bad innings where she would lose control like that," said Miller. "I think she 
"TWO THUMBS UP! 
A WONDERfUL NEW COMIC Sl.ICF OF !.!FE." 
<>rn, l~<kd \l\1\11 t.: IllflU 
'1\BSORBING INTENSITY!" 
-lane! ~t..dm rill \I\\ \OR~ 11.\11\ 
"****!" 
Cinema at the Snite Fri. 7:30pm only & Sat. 7:30 and 9:30pm Presented by NO Communications and Theatre 
just was more determined that she want­ed to stay in there and do the job." 
With the sweep, the Irish improve to 15-16 on the season, while the hapless Crusaders fall to 3-12. The team will now take to the road this weekend for a four­game Big East road trip against Boston College and Providence. Despite the impressive outing yesterday, Miller still believes a strong effort is needed against the conference rivals. 
"We really got to play some good ball this weekend. All four of our games are going to be extremely tough," said Miller. Boston College is probably the top in their division, and Providence is a team that has already played against them, and that was a tie ballgame. So, we know that both teams are going to be tough. And for us, there just haven't been any easy games." 
--~-----~------~----~­
l 
I 
I 
Friday, April 3, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 
• TRACK 
Irish to compete in only home outdoor meet 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field team will look to defeat the field of Miami (OH), Butlerand Western Michigan in head-to-head competition tomorrow in its only outdoor home meet of the year. 
The Fighting Irish will take to the track tomorrow hoping to show the home crowd a victory. The meet will be held in Moose Krause Stadium with running events on Monogram Track. It will be scored both as concur­rent dual meets and as a quad­rangular meet. 
Last season, the men beat Butler and Miami, while the women beat Miami but fell short of defeating Butler. Western Michigan did not par­ticipate in the meet in 1997. 
"We'd love to beat Western and Miami and Butler on the men's and women's side," said head coach Joe Piane. 
Every event is equally impor­t:lnt because the main goal is to win the meet rather than to run fast times or qualify indi­viduals for the NCAA champi­onships. It is crucial that the Fighting Irish score points in -as many events as possible in order to have a chance at victo­ry. 
Jason Rexing, a senior all­American who met provisional qualifying standards in the 10,000-meter run in a meet at Stanford last weekend, will run the 1,500-meter run tomorrow. 
"It's a scored quadrangular meet, so we're going to be going for points," Rexing said. "''ll be going in with the goal of winning and [will) try to run the best race strategically that I can." 
The meet will serve different purposes for each member of the team depending on their goals for the year. 
"With some people, these are just meets that we're using as preparation for other meets such as the Mt. SAC Invitational, Drake Relays, Big East and NCAAs-people that we're going to be counting on at the Big East and who have a chance to qualify for the NCAAs," sprints and hurdles coach John Millar said. "For some people, though, these are chances to compete and improve on their best times 

Own Your Own Home For As Little As ... 
from last year." 
"Everybody's capable of doing better than they did last week, so we'll look to improve," field events coach Scott Winsor said. "Western's pretty tough, so we'll have our hands full there. We're still taking strides towards the Big East meet." 
Many runners will take part in events different from their usual ones in an attempt to score points in other areas for the team. Sophomore Alison Klemmer, who ran the 10,000­mctcr run last week, will par­ticipate in the 3,000-meter run. Senior all-American Errol Williams will run in the 400­meter dash in addition to his usual 110-meter hurdles. Sophomore Patti Rice is return­ing from a lengthy injury to compete in the 1,500-meter run. 
"When you're out for a while, it's hard to keep your focus," Hice said. "Realistically, being out for six weeks,-, just want to compete as well as I can, be there for the team, and not get injured again." 
Field events will begin at 
10:30 a.m. tomorrow, with run­ning events beginning at noon. 
$49 9 ~&ronth* 5 25 ~erest 
• Rate
$4 75Qoown 
' Paymml 
In 30 days, you can own the waterfront condominium or townhome you've dreamed of, located in a park like setting just minutes from downtown South Bend and shopping 
For information about this limited offer, call 
232-2002 
~Mt111fllfy princip_ft'lllltf iufcrl':;t /m:;t'd 011 a 2 bt'droom rit'I:'Y n111dominiwn J~nn•d at $94-,990 wi~h a 2-1-0 buyiltllt'll 30 lfT. {lxt•d rnft' 1110rtgase. Raft's are . 011 sl'lt>cl llll't'llforv 
hom.t.·~ mtd is made . . . . . . . . . . · 
Anyone interested in helping plan our last year at Notre Dame, please stop by the class office, 213 LaFortune for an informational sheet, or come to an informational meeting Monday, April 6 at 7:30 p.m. on the 2nd floor of LaFortune. 
• Pep Rally's Class Dinners .. BW 3's, Bruno's 
•Class Masses .. Ring Blessing 
• Fundraising .. T-Shirts 
•Sr. Scrapbook 
•Web Page 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu Erin Lubby (second from left) and the track team face Miami (OH), Butler and Western Michigan tomorrow in their only outdoor home 
251-0674 
IIATUBA 
JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 
Robert is the BEST Chef in 1bwn! 
2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
J unchll 2Mon Sun•lllJotH !fl !J:Vlon 8.111'> 10 F11 & S.tt 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99" School Year Summer Rentals }une~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 

Friday, April 3 
Dance all night 
10:30 Show 
Stom 


I Saturday, April 4 GET CONNECTED 
;0.1 FONZ 

. a. 
t~.--WALK~MAMA 
The best Djs to ever roam the Earth 
t:dOV~~ befGftle-11 :30 with this ..ad
00
•' >;~0: "< ."c "f{>" •." • •;-t:•.: :>;, " "l' 
~--------~ _,~--~-~--~-­
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Friday, April 3, 1998 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Golf Scramble -Stanford Hall will be sponsoring a nine-hole golf scramble on April 18 for teams of four. Fee Is $32 per group. For more information call Gene at 4-2049. 
NO Tai Chi/Kung Fu Club -meets every Sunday at the Rockne Memorial, 10 
a.m. to noon in room 219. The club teaches southern Shaolln internal martial arts, which include Tang­style Tai Chi Chuon and "Five Families Five Animals" internal Kung Fu. Classes are non~competi~ tive, and all are welcome to attend regardless of prior training. If the above time is inconvenient or if you want more information, please call Teo at 4~3013 or email cteodoro@nd.edu. 
Casting & Angling Clinic -RecSports will be spon­soring a clinic on April 14, 21 &23 from 6~7:15 p.m. Sessions will be held at the Joyce Center, Rolfs Aquatic Center and campus lakes. Equipment will be provided, but participants are encour­aged to bring their own. The fee is $8 for the class and it is open to all. Advance rogistration in the BecSports office is required. 
Weekend Racquetball Tournament -A weekend racqUt~tball tournament will be offered on April 17-18 at the Joyce Center. Matches will begin at 5:50 p.m. on Friday and 10 a.m. on Saturday. There will he men's and women's divi­sions and t-shirts for all participants. Bring your own racquet but balls will be provided. The entry fee is $8. Participants need to register in advance at RecSports. The deadline for registering is April 15 at 6 p.m. 
Drop-In Volleyball -RecSports will he sponsor· ing Drop-In Volleyball every Wednesday and Friday from 8-11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for the rest of the spring semeS• ter. 
Drop-In Badminton -RecSports will he sponsor­ing Drop-In Badminton every Friday from 7·10 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center for the rest of the semester. 
Bookstore Basketball ­Schedules and team packets are available at the LaFortune Information Desk. 
Race Judicata -A 1OK road race, 5K road race, and a one mile walk will take place Saturday April 4 at 11 a.m. beginning at the Law School. Registration will take place between April 1 and April 3 in the dining halls and at Rolfs Recreation Center or on the race day at the Law School. Proceeds will go to summer fellowships that will fund law students working for public interest groups. Cost is $10 in advance and $12 on race day for students. Cost for faculty and staff is $20 in advance and $25 on race day. 

Come, join us ftH-the open i111.: of the conference "Tall•ing Across Boundaries: Culture., ofPeace, Cultures of I iolence. " 
•Journe~ around the world and in South Bend with the help of music, poetry, 
'.1Jf<IJA11J. FILM. personal Stories as 
l'l1nference participants and .\otre Dame students present an enning of multicultut·af dialoglll'. 
Baseball 
continued from page 24 
O'Hagan retired the side in the 11th for the Irish, setting up Ust's heroics. 
Wagner singled with two outs before Ust lifted a Ryan Streb offering over the 381-foot sign in right. emptying the Notre Dame dugout and ending the game . 
"Going into a conference series [against Boston College this weekend], it was great to win a tough ballgame where we had to · come back and everybody had to be enthused about being in the game," said Mainieri. "It was just a total team effort." 
The Irish will need another total team effort to defeat the Boston College Eagles this week­end. The Eagles are hitting over .400 as a team, and present a formidable challenge to Notre Dame. 
"We're going to have to play very good baseball to beat [Boston College]." said Mainieri. "These are really big games for us." 

Big Wreck crash into rock radio wiTh 
"The Oaf (My Luck is Wasted)" 
Tickets available thru ~~ (219) 272-7979 or Heartland 
222 s. Michigan-South Bend (21 0) 234-5200 
Attention All Finance Club Members!!! Election Information Meeting: Date: Tuesday, April 7th Time: 8:45pm 
Place: Room 121 COBA Please contact Shane at 243-5638 if you plan on running for an office . 

------------------------------------------------------------------~---------------------.­
Friday, April 3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MEN'S TENNIS 
Sachire, Irish seek revenge against Boise State 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Saint Mary's Editor 
Sometimes a team has to move mountains to win. On Saturday, Notre Dame will also have to hike one. 
Traveling 3,000 feet up, the No. 24-ranked Irish will face Top 20 Boise State, who recent­ly beat second-ranked Illinois. 
"Balls really fly at that alti­tude," head coach Bob Bayliss said. "We won't have much of a chance to adjust either. We'll get there at about 10:30 [tonight], then get up, walk out and play." 
But the only thing that's going to leave Notre Dame breathless is their thrill about having a rematch. 
"We're really excited to play them again," said Ryan Sachire, the No. 26 player in the nation. "There's definitely a revenge 

JET-UP AN INTERVIEW WITH JENNIE PHILLIPf 
for mor.e Info. IConta'Cf: 
@ J-5965. Rec~ports -_HS100 
www.nd.edu/ rec.s~. ort 
~--­

This is 
•
Premium Ice Cream! 
r 
Try The Thickest, The Creamiest, The Smoothest! 
Only a few miles from campus! 
«.. 
..... 
Qj 
c. 
ra 
I.. 
l!) 
Edison 
Day  This Fri., Sat.  lll;j '  
.... J.... I --.Ritter's  and Sun. Only (Apri13-5)  
Ritter's Frozen Custard 3921 N. Main Street  
This is --­Premium Ice Cream!  , i i  
Independently owned and operated.  One coupon per visit Not valid with any other offer. ---------­ , -=-~  

-

• MEN'S lACROSSE 
Irish halt losing streak with 12-2 rout of Buckeyes 
By ANTHONY BIANCO Sports Writer 
For a team that is playing 
every game with a do-or-die 
attitude. yesterday's 12-2 bat­
tPring of tlw Ohio State 
BuckP.yes shows that tlw Irish 
are getting it done. 
Losers of their previous three, 
Notre Dame could not afford a 
loss. especially to unranked 
Ohio StatP. 
But the Irish just consider 
yesterday's contest anotlwr step 
in building thPir squad. "This 
game was lik1~ another day of 
hard practice," said freshman 
midlielder Todd Ulrich. 
But in no ordinary practice could Ulrich net two goals and pass for an assist. his lirst colle­gial!) points in only his second game played. "Coach gave me a shot," Ulrich said. "The midlield needed players to hand lc the ball, and I was playing strong, so they gave me a shot." 
The entire midlield produced similar results, turning things around for the team. The biggest problems for the team in rneent games have been with the fundamentals. An inability to dear the ball and drive to the net kept the Irish from playing the game they are capable of'. 
"We knew we weren't playing well," said tnam captain. mid­fielder .Jimmy Keenan. "We refocused and got back to what we're good at, which is playing to our ability." 
Ohio State got on the board first. with midfielder Todd Miller scoring at 11:40 on a feed from freshman Steve Glonckner. That was the only Buckeye lead of the game, as Notre Dame exploded with a st1)ady scoring attack. starting with Brad Owen's goal at 8:46 of the first quarter, fed by Keenan. 
The quarter ended with 
Ulrich's first of the game, giving 
the Irish a 3-1 lead. In between, 
midfieldcr Dan Butler added his 
first of two in the game, while 
attacker Stedman Oakey took 
assists on the goals by Butler 
and Ulrich. 
The second period brought 
more cracking of the Buckeyes, 
with unassisted goals by 
Keenan, attackman Chris 
Dusseau. and middie Hevere La 
Noun before Ohio State chipped 
in its second, a Buddy Lange 
goal aided by attacker Eric 
Mooney. 
The Buckeye goal, at 7:11 of 
the second. was the team's last. 
The Irish defense was stellar, 
led by goalie Alex Cade's 10 
saves. 
"Cade was amazing," said defenscman Todd Hassas. "Its always good to have him back there." 
As Cade commented, "Everything clicked on defense. When we play defense correct­ly, as we did, they're shots arc all going to be outside." 
Most of the Buckeye drives were stopped before they even reached Cade. "The communi­cation was key. We fixed our defense. It was solid and gave us structure," said Hassas. 
The defense's strength allowed them to move the ball up the field and to the net. After completely shutting down the Buckeye offense in the second quarter, the game was alllrish. 
Dusseau responded to Ohio State's second goal with his sec­ond of the game, giving Notre Dame a 7-2 lead as they fin­ished the half. 
They added five more in the second half. with three in the third and two in the final quar­ter. Goals were, scored in the half by Ben Savage, Butler (his second), Keenan (his second), 

The Observer/Meg Kroener 
Midfielder Burke Hayes (19) struggles to. regain control of the ball in yesterday's rout of Ohio State. 
freshman Conor Pett (his first of the season and first-ever colle­
~RPORT :t~S~ORAGE 
~~rf.~~L 256-3044 
Corner of Mayflower & Edison Roads 
YOU WON1 T GET A BETTER OFFER !! 
FREE ROOM AND BOARD COMMENCEMENT WEEK AND WE PAY YOU!! 
'''ttiiK F'ttll £ATI3111NG 
..... 
SIGN YOUR ROOM

I
~~~~ CONTRACTTODAY&m WORK FOR CATERING ~COMMENCEMENT WEEK 
$6.75 PER HOUR 
FLEXIBLE SCHEDULE 
MAY 9 THRU MAY 17 

-
CATERING EMPLOYMENT OFFICE NDH I LOWER LEVEU STREET ENTRANCE OR CALL 631-5449 
~---------------------------------------....... 
giate goal) and Ulrich (his sec­ond). 
Sophomore Kirk Howell cov­ered the crease for the Irish in the fourth, stopping both of the shots he faced. 
The Irish now look to Sunday's trip to Butler as their next do-or-die game. Hanked 15th, Butler stands in the way of the Irish as they look to pave the road to the payoffs. 
As Cade said, "The game against Butler will be a battle, and we must win it." For a Fighting Irish squad, dying is not an option. 
PLAY PLINK-0 
AU lProfits WJiJ[ Benefit the Gli'c&ce Cmnm1lllllll.lity CenteJr 
SaturdaY. APril 4 Library Auditorium 8:00P.M. 
Chances: 1/$3.2/$5 
dea-pp~ 216t )"3,z~tlt-da-~ 'J/lc-tt~ 
A,M-M-e.)"3,a-te.6 
Love, Mom & Dad 

Friday, April 3, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 


MIKE PETERS 
DILBERT 
LOOK AT i~E. WARNING LABE.L 0 N 1\LICE.'S ANTIOE.PRE 551\NT S. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 32 Brought to the surface
1 Taking care of business 35 Like-not link 
16 Ones with lots 36 Seeing: Prefix of inventory 
37 Tabouli holder 17 Fitting 
38 Mark's cry companions 40 Martini go-with 
18---cone 
41 Nomads' pads
19 Open-ended cigar 42 Early German 
43 Okinawan port
200.T. book 
45 "Quiet!," to Shakespeare 21 Insulting remark 
22 Camera diaphragm 46 Office equipment, for
24 Lovelace's "To short
--.From Prison" 49 One in a hundred
27 Chekhov and Bruckner 51 One way to go 31 "--Theme" 54 50's-60's ABC (1965 tune) series 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
C A 
S H 
B L 0 CIG EARs 
L 0 N E 0 I L E R
H I 
L 0 

lT CAN CAUSE. FATIGUE, OI50RIENTATION, MEMORY L055, />.NO Lt>..CI<. OF 5EX. ..----" 
5 Christmas tree trimming & Daniel Webster College site 7 "The Female 
Eunuch" author a Autocrat 9 Capital on the 
Red River 
10 "The Gilded One" of myth 
11 Word with trend or table 
Aries:Get used to the sad truth that you may no longer be The Golden Child. Others are tired of putting you on a pedestal and have gone in search of someone new to celebrate. Grow up and start pulling your weight again. 
Taurus:The Cancer Moon has expanded your 15 minutes of fame and glory to 48 Hrs. The stars are your friends at this time. Your proximity to greatness allows great things to happen you. 
Gemini:Your bad choices are sure to come back at you like a Boomerang, so choose well. Unresolved money issues lead to general dissatisfaction. You can· not seem to escape the material world these days, though the rewards for your secretarial ser­vices aren't material at all. 
Cancer:You have good reason to be Delirious. This is one of those rare times when reality lives up to your dearest illusions. A winning mixture ·of ambition and intuition make you virtually unstoppable today. 
Leo:Why are you sitting around feeling sorry for yourself? A whole new Life is just outside the door, waiting for you to assume ownership. If you are unhappy with your thoughts,
SCOTT ADAMS 
drown them out with new, cre­ative action. Virgo:Find out how the other
l WONDER ~OW LONG 
half lives by Trading Places with
WE'VE BEEN TAKING 
someone very different from you. Everyone benefits from an exam· ination of ethnic expectations or gender roles. Ideas flourish in a 
T~E.RE'5 NO 
THEI"\. 
friendly environment. 

WAY TO KNOW. 
\ 
i)o 
~~~~~U----A£L~~--~~~~ 
~U--i~~~~--~~~~~~~~~~~------~--~--------~ 
57 "Seeds in a dry pod, tick, tick, tick" writer 
58 Goes on and on, in a way 
DOWN 
1 Vase occupants 
2 80's hit "The Heat--" 3 Concern for 
Claudius 4 Bug killer 
45 Leaf opening 50 Suit to-­46 Roman 51 Maintain commoner 52 Kind of 47 Transfer, as pronoun: Abbr. property 53 Talk of the Gaelic 48 It's a long 55 Wine starer story 56--zed 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are ;:~vailable for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Libra:Others might call you Doctor Dolittle because they fail to see the importance of your work. You need to show concrete proof that you can talk to the ani­mals. Nobody cares about anoth­er dog and pony show. 
Scorpio:You may have thought your luck was fading, but the stars have given you Another 48 Hrs. to make things happen. Take your family on a sponta· neous vacation. Take full advan­tage of community resources while they are still available. 
Sagittarius:If you are foreign nobility Coming to America, beware of language barriers and culture shock. Your environment is not necessarily hostile, but it could be difficult. Don't be afraid to ask questions. 
Capricorn:Your ac.tions are Raw, unprocessed, close to the bone. You are dealing with some­thing essential at this time, and the results will be permanent, or at least far-reaching. Beware of big consequences from little dis­tractions. 
Aquarius:You have a bit of The Nutty Professor in you -intellect without wisdom, inspiration without focus. If others seem to be humoring you, there's no one but yourself to blame. Weed your own garden before advertising your services as a landscaper. 
Pisces:Laughter is your Best Defense today, especially when your attackers are only playing. The human race is your party, and whether or not they know it, everyone has brought you a gift. This is a very good dream. 


12 Philosopher Lao--­
13 Hawks' home court, with "The" 
14 Old cars 151talian resort city 21 Give an edge 23 Leave for just a 
while 24 Leaning 25 Coffee-and-milk 
order 26 Go as a throng 28 Keats was one 29 Loony 
Puzzle by Manny Nosowsky 
30 Cape Trafalgar site 32 Seventh­century year 33 Have some remorse 34 Magic forest inhabitant 36 1985 #1 song 39 Promos 40 Invigorate 42 "Alas!" 44 Put in a chip, perhaps 
-

------------------~-----~ 
SPORTS Weekend 
page 24 Friday, April 3, 1998 
• BASEBAll 
Irish continue winning ways with 6-4 victory 
ANew 
OPTION 
steps onto t e fiel into ttte spotlight 
By JOE CAVATO Associate Sports EJiror 
Player after player wear­ing the Blue and Gold walk off the field and past the media. The reporters await one player. lie used to be able to stroll along past them, but now they are there for him. Now, he is the starting quarterback. 
.Jarious Jackson has been forced to watch from the sidnlines for three years, wailing to escape the shad­ows of the bench and step onto the field and into the spotlight. 
With the beginning of spring football and the departure of Hon l'owlus, who wrote his name at the top of practically every record in Notre Dame's his­tory books, all eyes are 
By ALLISON KRILLA Amlciare Spores EJiror 
For the eighth time this sea­son, Brant Ust w1mt yard. It may not have been his longest long ball. but it was probably the biggest. 
The sophomore third base­man's opposite-field, two-run horner in the bottom of the 11th inning lifted the Notre Dame baseball team to its seventh con­seeutive victory, a 6-4 win over Bowling Green yesterday at Frank Eck Stadium. 
"We needed somebody to step up and get a big hit," said head eoaeh Paul Maininri. "Jeff IWagrwrl started the rally with a big two-out hit [in the 11 thl. and obviously Brant had the one that ended the game." 
While the game ended favor­ably for the Irish, it began in a eompletnly dill'ercnt fashion. The Green Falcons jumped out to a 2-0 lead in the first inning, cour­tesy of a lively infield that eon­tributed to two early Notre Dame errors and two Bowling Green hits. 
The Green Dragons seored two more runs in the fourth oil' Irish starter John Corbin, who lasted three and two-thirds innings, allowing seven hits and fanning five. 
-
focused on the quarterback position and Jackson. 
Spring football has just begun but the Tupelo, Miss. native is trying to take things in stride. 
"Honestly I don't feel any pressure right now," the rising senior said. ''I'm just out here with a bunch of guys that I've been with since my freshman year. I'm out here having fun competing against every­body. I'm not looking at it from the standpoint where I'm the quarterback now and there will be pressure and this and that, because all of the quarterbacks are getting the same amount of repetitions. I'm just com­peting and having fun." 
Quarterbacks coach Mike Sanford assessed how .Jackson has handled the 
early going. 
"Obviously it's an oppor­tunity for him to be the guy," Sanford said. "The most important thing is he's doing the job on the field and he's come out with a great attitude and he's working hard." 
Offensive coordinator Jim Colletto agreed with his peer and thinks Jackson's approach is the same as any other year. 
"He's always been a very positive guy," Colletto said. "I don't notice any differ­ence in his attitude. lie always has a good atti­tude." 
There will certainly be a difference in the offense next year as it will be a return to the Notre Dame football fans are more 
see JACKSON I page 16 

The Observer/Michelle Keefe 
Mike Knecht and the rest of the baseball team have strung together seven consecutive wins. 
"It really was a great game, both teams. Every year when we although we didn't play well play Bowling Green, we have defensively at the beginning of excellent games and they always the ballgame, and gave them a seem to eome down to the end." couple of runs," said Mainieri. Notre Dame (17-9) mounted its "It was an excellent effort by comeback in the fifth inning, as 
Track and Field 

at Boston College (2) ~: Tomorrow, noon Butler/Miami 
aJ •Lacrosse team breaks losing streak 
Tomorrowat Providence (2) 
'Aw 
~ 
see page 22 Tomorrow, noon 
• 
at Boise State ...... 
at Butler 
~ 
Tomorrow, I p.m. riJ •Softball team sweeps Valpo 
~ Sunday, 2 p.m. see page 18 
at Ohio State at William and Mary 
v;P 
Tomorrow, I p.m. Tomorrow, I p.m.
~ ~ 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
Jarious Jackson has adjusted well to his new role as quarterback . 
junior centerfielder Allen Greene belted a two-run double to the gap in left, giving him 19 RBI on the year, and pulling the Irish within one. 
In the bottom of the sixth, 
Wagner lofted his eighth horne run of the season over the right­field wall, knotting the score at 4-4. The dinger was the 35th of Wagner's eareer, putting him two shots away from the Notre Dame record (37). 
On the mound, a eombination of four Irish pitchers shut down the Green Dragons as the ollimse clawed its way back into the game. 
Steve Szczepanski relieved Corbin and tossed three and one-third nearly pnrfeet innings with no walks and two strikeoul'i to lower his ERA to 4.24. 
Highly Aaron Heilman came on in the eighth and threw three strong innings, highlighted by six K's. Heilman has 31 strike­outs and six walks in 24 1/3 innings, and opposing teams are hitting just .186 against the freshman. 
"I knew our ofl'ense would gnt the job done, so I didn't worry too much about that," said Heilman. "I just went out there and tried to do my job; shut them down, so they wouldn't score any more runs. 
"I don't go out there intention­ally looking for strikeoul'i, but I guess it's just due to my style of pitching." 
Mike Naumann and Tom 
see BASEBALL! page 20 



