
Sounds of the Season Storie, lrom Africa 
Still searching for the perfect Christmas 
Mary Margaret Nussbaum sheds light on the strug­

Wednesday

album? Check out suggestions for CD's to 
gles ofSouth Africa since the end ofapartheid. 
ad<l to your collection. 
DECEMBER 2,

Scene• 12-13 
Viewpoint. 7 
1998 

THE 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 60 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Breaking UJ1 Britain? 

Archie Brown (right), Distinguished Visiting Fellow at the Kellogg Institute, lectured on the topic of "The Breakup of Britain? The Scottish Question in Comparative Perspective." A professor of politics at Oxford University, Brown has served as the author, editor or coauthor of 12 
books. His most recent book, "The Gorbachev Father," has received awards including the Alec Nove Prize from the British Association for Slavonic and Eastern European Studies for best book on Russia, communism or postcommunism. 
EDS case program challenges students 
By lAURA ROMPF ''The challenge was a new News Writer way or solving p1·obloms dif­ferent from classroom 1ixpe­
,.. A s(llEict group of Notrn rience," Schuler said. "The Dame students had the series of interview procnsses chance to get a taste of the with the EDS associates business world and the chal­allowed me to gain informa­lcngos they may face once tion from them." they enter the workplace. "W<-1 learnfld a ton," Szilier The EDS Case Challenge agreed. "We learned how to gavf1 the University studrmts work well under pressure. this opportunity to solve Also. none or us know each real-life problems. other previously and we Bob Mintz, EDS cxcutivc became so close unclnr a 
president of h u m a n resources, said the chal­lenge is part of the com­
puter compa­ny's commit­ment to 
a d v a n c e higher edu­cation. "Our goal is to offer stu­dents a l'orum to test thAir busi­
tuam­
working environ­

'OUR GOAL IS TO OFFER ment. "This parallels 
STUDENTS A FORUM 
TO TEST THEIR BUSINESS 
the type of 

SAVVY AGAINST COLLEAGUES situation you have 

FROM ALL OVER THE 
in a pro­

WORLD.' fessional onviron­ment: vou 
BOJJ Mt/li1'Z will be.put BDS EXBCU11VE PJIHSIDENT wi.th indi­
ness savvy against col­leagues from all over the world," Mintz said. "It gives them a taste of what it's like to go head-to-head in the marketplace against tlrn best. It's a real education in 
the workplace." 
Notre Dame students who participated in the challenge were senior College of Business Administration stu• dents Anne Faust, Carlye Schuler, Greg Szilier and Patrick McIntyre. Participants were called and asked if they would be inter­ested in the contest. 
Although the Notre Dame team did_ not advance past the event's first round, par• ticipt\nts agreed much was gained from the experience. 
v id u a Is 
you don't know and havo to solve a problem," he addod. 
Both Schuler and Szilier believe there will be long term benefits to their parlic· ipation in the challenge. 
"The challengfl was good practice in a now setting, .. Schule~ said. "It gave me roal-world exposure to solv­ing problems in a realistic business setting." 
"I gained problem-solving skills and learnoct how to solve a massive problem in which getting the informa­tion was the hardest pt~rt ­not nncossarily finding the exact solution," Szilier snid. 
"For the rest of my lifo, I will have to use those skills when working with a group of people," said Szilier. 

¦ BOARD Ot-GOVERNANCE 




Eldred makes first appearance at group's meeting 
good fooling is due to thn Hoard detailnd rnport, Eldrnd said. year, the conforence was attend­• Tim Studont Academic
President fields 
of Govnrnance and its leader­The Board also agreed to ed by 10 African American stu­Council rnrninded the Board that ship," Eldrnd said. dents from tho major ol' the week isquestions about Iildred answered ques­
Saint Mary's. Humanistic studies and next tions about the Performa The group week's major of the week will bePerforma group c;roup. a consulting compa­'T"E SPIRIT ON CAMPUS IS also decided Heligious Studies. ny, which has compiled a to put money • Nancy Midden, student gov­
REALLY POSITIVE AND THE
By EMILY McCORMICK report that will make rec­towards a c rn mont vice president, also 
News \'(/rircr CREDIT FOR THE GOOD FEELING IS
ommendations for handling contribution encouraged m(1mbers to attend incrnasing student popula­DUE TO THE BOARD OF that the a luncheon in llaggar on Tuesday's Board of tion in coming years. Thn Student Monday which will highlight


GOVERNANCE AND ITS LEADER­
(;ovMnancti nrnnting mark<"d the Performa Group has met Government women's roles in entrepreneur­
first appnarance by Marilou with studonts, faculty and SHIP.' Association ship. Thorn will be three women Fldrnd since llrn start or lwr staff to determin<1 what makes to speakers. prnsidnncy. changes nncd to be made to Bengal • Student Activities Board 
1-:ldrnd comnrnndnd the Board the Saint Mary's campus to MARILOU EWRH!J Bouts, which coordinator .Janot Horvath for its hiadtirship and energy at accommodatn the increasing SA/Jiff MARY'S PRESIDENT benefits the announced that the movie "Ever the mnnting. student population and will lloly Cross After" would be showing this 
'"Tho spirit on campus is rnally meet with the Administrative donatn $700 for a conference at missions in Bangladesh. Saturday at 8 p.m. Admission is positive and the crndit for tho Council today to present a Texas A&M University. Last In other BOG news: free. 

page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 


The Verdict: 

; 
Not Guilty 
I'd like to starL out by congratulating USC on defeating the Notre Dame football team minus its starting quarterback. Enjoy it while you can. Last Saturday's Tr~jan upset carries as much significance as 
beating the Venus De Dustin P. Ferrell Milo at an arm-i\.~imnr Viewpoint wrestling contest. At Ediror least Lhat's what I've been telling my friends from Southern California who keep sending harassing e­mails. · 
Fortunately, we have more important things to worry about at Notre Dame. We even have a collection of wannabe hippies to ponder sty­rofoam and other pressing issues. As for my part, f've personally curbed some of my bad habits such as cutting down trees in old growth forests, and I don't hunt spotted owls as regularly. 
In all fairness, I commend those who have stood in objection to the School of the Americas, an institution I find questionable at best. Unfortunately I can only offer praise for the idea itself. In last week's PSA column, the authors felt the need to criticize the armed forces in general, then proceeded to detail their heroic efforts against the big, bad mili­tary. 
Ignorant statements about the military don't bother me. In fact, I've come to expect them from sheltered coll~ge students. Dave McMahon's weekly installment of unintelligi­ble garbage last year is a fine example. Still, I get tired of watching as people pick and choose facts to draw general conclusions about the military. While I object to the terri­ble things that have occurred in our nation's past, the overall conduct of our fighting forces should be celebrated and respected. Any and all wrongdoing should serve as a lesson to future generations so that these mistakes are not repeated. 
Along the same line of thinking, many bleeding-heart students feel a great sense of guilt for what we did to the Native Americans or what we did to other groups. Sheila McCarthy goes as far as to express feelings of guilt for her part in the atrocities in South America, and compares them to the slaughter of Indians here in America. The idea that we have any direct involvement as college stu­dents is asinine. But it exemplifies the actions of many guilt-ridden people intent on clearing their consciences. We would be much better off without the nauseating accounts of those who want to "take their share of the blame" and feel better about themselves. While you're at it, take my sbare of the blame, too. 
I'm not obligated to blame myself for what other people have done. I like to learn as much as I can about our nation's imperfect policies and actions, but I will not accept any personal responsibility for the deeds of "our ancestors." Speaking of which, my back­ground consists of roughly 90 percent European ancestry, with the remaining 10 percent comprised of various Native American tribes, so I don't know whether to feel oppressed or guilty. If l ever come around, perhaps 90 percent of me will take the other 10 percent out for a mocha latte and ask forgiveness. Ijust need to figure out which is which. 
As for anybody still harboring hateful feel­ings towards our military and our govern­ment. I'll be the first to wish you a safe trip to Costa Rica, or any other country where your conscience can rest at ease. Now leave the rest of us alone. 

The views expressed in the inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
¦ TODAv'S STAFF 
News Scene 
Colleen McCarthy Emmett Malloy Noreen Gillespie Graphics Chris Lawltr 
Cristin Manary 
Sports Production 
Bill Han 
Kathleen Lopez 
Viewpoint 

Lab Tech 
Spencer Stefko 
Jeff Hsu 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publi,h,d Monday through Friday c.-xct!pr during exam and vacation pt-riods. The Observe-r is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Wednesday, December 2, 1998 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U.Wire reports 
Researchers uncover information about HIV reproduction 

CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

A team of Harvard researchers has developed a new portrait of how HIV, the virus that causes AIDS, repro­duces itself in a development that may provide clues for future drug treatments. 
Through a collaboration between the Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology and the Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, researchers were able to take a snapshot of a stage of the mechanism by which the enzyme reverse transcriptase (RT} works on a strand of viral DNA to make n()W copies. 
Understanding this mechanism may help researchers make new drugs that will serve as options in the drug cocktails -mixtures of three or four drugs -that have resulted in far more effective treatment of AIDS. 
RT, one of several major proteins in 

¦ UNIVERSITY Of AmZONA Officials mandate barriers in small bars 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Arizona liquor officials Wednesday mandated that small bars and nightclubs construct physical barriers to separate people of legal drinking age from underage customers. Howard Adams, director of the Arizona Liquor License and Control department, ordered venues accommodating less than 1,000 people to stem the passage of alcohol into minors' hands. Issuing 21-and-over customers wristbands and hand stamps wasn't cutting it, said Myron Musfeldt, chief of investi­gation in Adams' department. "There seemed to be increas­ing problems that needed to be addressed in these all-ages venues," Musfeldt said Monday from his Phoenix office. "It seemed to be eroding and uncontrollable. It had gotten to the point that it was introducing young people to a club atmos­phere and it was not good public policy." The barriers must prevent underage individuals from moving out of their desig­nated areas. 
¦ Ul'llVERS!TY OF CAUFORNIA-8£RKELEY Undergraduates support strike 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

UC Berkeley's graduate student instructors should fight for the recognition and money they deserve, as long as they do not interrupt the learning process at the unjversity, according to a sampling of student opinion. "I think it is a good thing as long as it does not hurt the students," said junior Anna Vrska, a psychology and molecular biology major. "If it becomes detrimental to student learning, it would become a bad thing." Other students supported the ideas behind the strike, but wished it could have been han­dled differently. "I absolutely agree with the reasons behind the strike," said freshman Ashianna Esmail. "But this is an institution .for the students and I came to college to learn and to receive my grades. I wish people here were in tune to me rather than other political things." Freshman Jacquelyne Tobkin said she believed there were options other than striking that she wished the GSI's had considered. 
¦ Sourn BENO WEATHER ¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon, Wednesday, Dec. 2. 

AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime condition:and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
,,,-•nm, 
r-..._ ....,,~-·· 
! 

Wednesday 


Thursdc;ty c£3 63 ,4J Friday r ~63' '"~i's Saturday ~ 64 f38' 
~¾l~t, .. :-:_---; 
FRONTS: 

........ ..........
~

Sunday ,,, l:~ 54;r<:4 
© 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
!~.>•.,A-.('··,...,,; .,.\i' }:\~¥ 

Atlanta 46 70 Dallas 58 70 Milwaukee 44 57 Austin 61 74 Denver 33 61 Minneapolis 39 50 Baltimore 42 64 Detroit 47 61 New York 47 60 Boston 43 60 Hartford 39 56 San Diego 53 65
~~+C\8<£:9.d(f ~a 
Cleveland 47 60 Miami 72 81 Santa Fe 28 45
•.. ,' .. ,'...~..~ ..... _:. ·=·-::\:=· -:...-:.-:.. 
Showers T-storms R8in Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
the AIDS virus, is one of the most important enzymes in the replication of HIV, performing various functions at diffareni. stages of replication. 
Currently, one major class of drugs that 11ghts AIDS, called RT inhibitors, tries to interfere with RT. These drugs range from AZT to DOI to DDC. 
But mutations in RT -which lead to mutations in HIV -sometimes make these drugs ineffective, said Huifang Huang, a post-doctoral fel­low in the Department of Molecular and Celluar Biology who served on 
¦ Omo STATE 
House passes bill for $112.8 million 

COLUMBUS, Ohio 
Ohio State is expected to receive $112.8 million as part of a two-year capital construction bill that the Ohio House is likely to vote on Tuesday. On Nov. 19, the Ohio House Finance Committee unanimously passed the $1.72 billion appropriation proposed by Gov. George Voinovich on Nov. 17. As it stands before review by the Ohio Senate, the bill earmarks most of the money for education. The funds include: $505 million for construc­tion and repairs of public school buildings and $547 mil­lion for projects at colleges and universities. After the bill clears the House, the Senate is expected to vote on it Dec. 8 or 9. OSU on1cials appear content with the pro­posals. "We 're very pleased,"said Jill Morelli, university architect. "We haven't seen any modifications, from what came out of the Board of Trustees, to this point. We should see everything we asked for." 
¦ PENN STATE 
University dismisses riot charges 

STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Penn State dismissed six students charged in connection with the July 12 riot yesterday, suspended two others and placed three on disciplinary probation. An independent inquiry by the Office of Judicial Affairs resulted in the dis­ciplinary action. Many of the students dismissed or sus­pended are still awaiting criminal trials for charges relat­ed to the riot. Vice president for student affairs William Asbury said disciplinary action such as this is not unusual and these students clearly violated university policy by having a "substantial adverse effect on the university." The disciplinary actions were taken after deliberations by the Office Ju9icial Affairs were completed, Asbury said. The deliberations were spurred by criminal complaints forwarded to the university by the State College Police Department. "I hope people will understand that there are consequences to their behavior," Asbury said. 
the research team. 

"The virus finds a way to evade the action of the drugs that we come up with to fight it," said David Ho, a Harvard Overseer who won Time Magazine's Man of the Year Award in 1996 for AIDS research. 
With an understanding of the mechanism. researchers said they have made another important step in combating AIDS, which killed 2.3 mil­lion people worldwide last year. 
lliggins Professor of Biochemistry Stephen Harrison, who worked with the research team, said that while this is not "some major breakthrough ... in the history of AIDS research," it is certainly an advance. 
"Here's one more small step in the direction of trying to make this process faster. better, more rational. more effective," Harrison said. "(And] it's a contribution I'm very proud of, incidentally," he added. 

Wednesday, December 2, l998 The Observer • NEWS page 3 
;;__:........::=--..:==========-=:.::==============================-==================~-----:~;;;;---;;;--:;;~~---­
Register for the trip in the Dining Halls and Lafortune Tuesday Dec. 1st, Wednesday Dec~ 2nd, and Thursday Dec. 3rd. Look for sign-uptables during lunch and dinner. For more information call 1-9006 


Male stripper pleads innocent 
A~snciated Pre<I 
PLEASANTON. Calif. 

;\ male dancer who allegedly stripped nude at a Halloween party plead•~d lnnoc,mt to four folony counts of sexual contact with telmag,i girls, saying he didn't know tlw high school f'rcshrnen and suphomoros were undcrngc. 
Steven Schmitt was paid to porform a 45-minutt~ routine for as many as 50 girls -most of them 14 and 15 years old ­at llu, party on Oct. :,o. 
kHc was exploited," said his attorney, William Gagen, after Monday's arrnignment. "He wouldn't have blHm thero or stayed there if he had thought 

Indiana Golf 
The complete list of golf courses and 
FREE & DISCOUNTED GOLF from across Indiana. 

the girls were underage." Gagen and Deputy nistrict Attorney Deborah Streicher 
'HE 

WAS EXPLOITED ••• 
HE WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN THERE OR STAYED THERE IF HE HAD THOUGHT 
THE GIRLS WERE UNDEAGE.' 
W1Ll.!AM GAGJJN S<'JIMTrr's A·rroHNBY 
both blamed Caryc McGrath, the mother of the party's 15­



LIFE 
Each January 22nd and 23rd, Notre Dame Right to Ufe sponsors a trip to Washington DC for the National March For Life 
on the anniversary of Roe vs Wade. We encournge you to join 


year-old host, for· sanctioning 
the party. ·· . McGrath, 39, was arraigned Tuesday in Alameda County Superior Court on <1M count of 
.exposing minors tp lt,Wd enter• 
tainnu,i,nt, She duled
'to enter aplea . y.·· 
, Schmitt was ed with three counts of .le~{f &nd las­civious conduct with.minors 14 or 15 years old and< one count of oral copulation with a minor under 16. 
Ifconvk.ted,. Schmitt.could .,.(a.qe np t9 12 .s,~r~An pri!3on. McGtath told invcstigat<>rs. tha.t 
·Schmitt was hired V\1.thout her knowledge but she let him per­form rather than embarrass her daughter. 
AYA progra01 brings Brazilians to fa01ilies 
By BRAD UNTIEDT News Writer 
Notre Dame families will have the opportunity to open their homes and give interna­ti un al students a taste of American life by hosting Brazilian students through the Academic Year in America (AYA) program. 
"I wish every family would host a student. Then they would realize how rewarding the experience is and how much love they receive," said Laura Weir, an AYA host mother. "You wouldn't trade the experiences and memo­ries of hosting these kids for anything in the world.Tlrny come into your life as strangers and leave as a mnmber of your family." 
The AYA is a program spon­sored by the American Institute for Poreign Study Foundation, a not-for-profit organization that has been bringing international stu­dents and American families together for the past 1 7 years. Brazilian students from 15 to 18 years old spend the semes-

Every copy is top notch ... every time you visit The Copy Shop in the Lafortune Student Center. Bring in your originals and order your copies; each copy will have the same great quality and sharpness as the first. Our paper, our copies, and our service are the best around for every customer, every day. Stop in and see for yourself. 
Resumes• Newletters • Flyers Brochures• Business Cards 
Quickly!'~
Table Tents & More! 
FREE PICK-UP & DELIVERY!!! 
Monday -Thursday: 7:30 am to Midnight Friday: 7:30 am to 7:00 pm Saturday: Noon to 6:00 pm • Sunday: Noon to Midnight 
Copyright 1998 • All Rights Reserved 
tcr attending the local high school while living with area families. 
Students are placed throughout the country with host families who share in the learning of a new culture and many new experiences. Tim students have the opportunity to participate in the "American way of life," while living with the families and attending school. 
The host family has tho opportunity to earn a scholar­ship worth up to $500 on a variety of college or travel­study programs or academic year high school study-abroad programs. 
The AYA placns students from countries other than Brazil. such as Spain, Germany and the Netherlands. This year, the program expects to place almost 1,100 students throughout the country. 
The students must completn a personal inlorview bof'ore they are accepted into the program and must be abln to provide tlrnir own nrndical insurance and spending 
money. 
Anyone who would like to seek further information about hosting a student can contact Andrea Baskinger at 1-800-322-4678 ext. 6078 for more details on this program. 
Do you wa11t to write for Tl1e Observer? Co1ne to our news meetings every Sunday at 5, p.111. in the fabulous basement of.South 




~-----­

page 4 The Observer• NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, December 2, 1998 
18-year-old confesses to fatally shooting family members 
Associated Press $5 million bail. ily to a psychologist for thera­After the arraignment, Tague made his confession about an 

tJaMINDER••• 
General Informational Meeting 
Wednesday, December 2 
7:00 pm COBA L051 
Information on Internship program and Institute for Developing Education Teaching Program 
illtll'llltJolla/ 
Adveataroa• 
told reporters that Privacky hour before the arrai!{n nwnt. 
The only thing better than an iMac: 
An iMac for less than $29.99/mo/ 
Apple Computer couldn't make iMac any easier to set up or use. So 
they 
made it easier to huy. Now, if you're a student, you can get an iMac for less than $29,99 per month, with the first payment not due for 120 days. For about what you'd spend on a few pizzas, you can have a superfast computer that can get you onto the Internet in IO min­. & utes right out of the box. You also get a coupon book with $2,000 in possible additional savings, for things like software, 
4k-.. 
games and accessories. 
Check out the Apple Student Loan Program Call 1-800-277-5356 
The gifts keep coming because you also get acoupon book worth $2,000 in additional value for software, games and accessories and a $30 RAM upgrade credit. 

Call nowfor Apple's special ND Student offers! 
OIT Solutions Center 
Rm 112 Computing/Math Bldg 
Think different. 
Phone: 219-631-7477 (1 for sales) 
www.apple.c<Jm/eduGttion/store 
©1998 Apple Computer, Inc. All rights resen•ed. Apple and the Apple lo[!o are registered trademarks and iJ/ac is a trademark a/Apple Compute1; Inc. PowerPC is a /rademark oflB:\/ Co1p Purd1ase.fi-om a participating Apf;fe-autborized campus reseller or/ram the Apple Store for Education. 


oston area. d talents while offers opportunit d, and a liveable s 
Old Kent Bank is part of a $15 billion financial services network that offers an ever-expanding menu of banking and non-bank• ing services, primarily in the Great Lakes region. Our customer-driven organization challenges our employ­ees while providing career opportunities that are rewarding and enjoyable. We are currently seeking: 
BRANCH MANAGEMENT TRAINEES 
Take the initial step to a retail banking career with our extensive training program. You will enhance your skills in branch management, sales and operations. As you become familiar with our retail products and services, as well as commercial lending and trust services, you will assist in the staffing and management of an Old Kent branch, working through the branch system to increase exposure to customers and situations. The program is flexible in both structure and length, pro­viding you with the opportunity to develop your skills at an appropri­ate pace. 
CREDIT ANALYSTS 
New products and emerging technology have created opportunities in our Credit Training Program. It includes work as a Commercial Loan Analyst, dividing time between independent study, hands-on experi­ence and formal classroom training. You will develop and analyze credit information for a variety of loan types, prepare and present credit reports to loan officers or committees, monitor credit standing of current accounts and participate in customer sales calls. 
Old Kent offers a highly competitive compensation package, including an attractive salary, comprehensive medical/dental/life insurance, 40I(k) retirement plan,/aid vacation and holidays, education assis• tance, banking plans an abundant opportunity for advancement. 
We are ideally located in Grand Rapids, MI, in the heart of Western Michigan. The city is exciting and affordable, with a relatively large size (500,000) but the feel of a small community. You're close to the Lake Michigan beaches, the northern Michigan woods and the attractions of Detroit and Chicago. 
01' CAMPUS INTERVIEWS ALL DAY 
~ 
Call the Career Placement Office To Schedule Your Interview 
OLDl(.ENT 
An Equal Opportunity Employer. 
MUSKEGON. Mich. 

An 18-year-old man con­fessed to fatally shooting his parents, grandfather, brother and his brother's girlfriend on the day his father had threat­ened to kick him out of the house, a prosecutor said. 
Seth Privacky was arraigned Tuesday on five counts of open murder. Privacky said he would have had to move out Sunday -the day of the shoot­ings, prosecutor Tony Tague said. 
The teen said he shot the five in their heads at close range, execution-style, Tague said. 
Privacky's classmate, 18­year-old Steven Wallace, was arraigned on the same charges. Both were jailed on 
Killed were Privacky's par­py. ents, Stephen Privacky, 50, and Linda A. Privacky, 49; his grandfather John J. Privacky, 78; his brother, Jedediah, 19; and Jedediah's girlfriend, April 
A. Boss, 19. Their bodies were discovered early Monday morning. 
Court records released Tuesdav indicated that Privack.y's parents became concerned with his psychologi­cal well-being last year after he was twice picked up for shoplifting, The Muskegon Chronicle reported Tuesday. 
In a letter to Musktigon's Juvenile Court on May 22, 1997, Linda Privacky said a family doctor prescribed an antidepressant medication for Privacky and referred the fam­

NDCIBO 
-rh,e· Cour1cil 
Presents: 
Women in. Entrepreneurialism 
A conference celebrating the accomplishments ofwomen as entrepreneurs! 


Monday, Dec. 7th 5-7 PM Jordan Auditorium, COBA 
Featured speakers for the conference: 
DRU MILBY 
(CFO of Papa John's) 
CAROLPANKROS 
(Pres. of CCP Financial Services, Inc) 
~UREffi MULDOON 
(Owner of MJM Special Events) 
*WITH OPEMNG ROIMl.KS BY, DR. RDRED P.RESIDENf OF SMC 


Wedni.:sday, December 2, 1998 
¦ WoRto NEWS BRIEFS 
Space station still nameless 
CAPE CANAVERAL 

11" il wPrP up to kids, NASA would be blast­ing off Thursday to build tlw Dudeship. Or tlw \1ilky Way Bar Stop. Or Urn Totally Had Space l'lacn. With hours remaining before tlw Ii rst space-station rnnslruction llight. Urn inll'rnational spacn station still lacks an ol1i­rial nanw. Fur lark of anyLlling better. NASA rails it tlin i11tl'rnatio11al space station or, worsn, lSS, pronounc1Hl lnttnr by lntter by NASA, 1-S-S. That's ahout as glamorous as a whitP. short-sl!•(Wt' shirt and a pockni pro­lnclor. It's nol !'or lack of suggestions. More t.ha11 2.000 youngswrs look part rnconUy in an lnlcnwl 11a11w-t.lrn-spa1:11-station s"voep­stakt•s, and th«• most popular suggestions, rpflncling tho inl'lu1111cH of TV and the movies, Wert: Entnrpr)sn and Apollo. Otlwr choit'.PS, all of whil'h were forwarded to NASA: lludnship. Way Out, Man. Totally Had Spac11 l'lacn. Milky Way Bar Slop. Vtigas. A Ciant SpacP Thingy. 
Christmas returns to Cuba 
IIAVANA 

Christmas is coming lo Cuba this holiday ­oflit:ially, that is. Tim Communist Party used tlw nntirn l'ronl pag11 of Cuba's ()Illy daily 1rnwspap1ff, (;ranma, to rncommend Tuesday that "from this year 011" Dric. 25 bri a pcrma­1wnt holiday in Cuba. Adoption by the Communist gov1irnnrn11l is assured. Ordinary Cubans -wlwtlwr rt•ligious or not -wel­comed the nmvs, whid1 rn-nstablishcs a cus­tom lhP communist govt'rnme11l abolished in 1<J(,9. "It makes nm wry hapµy," said Marta Solt:r, a sncrdary who came to the Our Lady of Carmen church to buy nativity figuriirns. "It's anotlwr day to rnsl -You can share it with lhn family," said Judith Arango Rodriguez, 26. Cuba's Homan Catholic Church issued a state­ment dnclaring it "highly values this gesture." 
Impeachment hearing focuses on the effect of perjury 
WASHINGTON 

From judges and military officers to two women prosecuted for lying in sex cases, the llousn Judiciary Committee heard Tuesday from witnesses who said perjury undermines the court system and, if com­milt11d by a president, can weaken the mili­tary. "Wn'rn exploring whether there's one ru!H of law for llrn powerful and the rulers and another for the ruled," chairman llcnry llyde, (H-Ill.), told the 37-member panel. "I just think it's important to under­stand that thern arn consequences for per­jury." Democrats said Republicans had stagnd tho perjury session to rally support for impeachment articles, which House leadnrs hope to bring to a floor vote later this month. 

Composite 

Volume: +16.99 788,050,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 
llr!HH 'ih fllANCif ShAIN C81rt· 

W1\Vl'.!'1IOK r. l!\IC WAVO ,..,,,.,.n +7.~oon 1S.2S I JI.I.I. ~,t )lt,iflU l't:k llf.1.L -d,,.SA +-j,()01)0 64.~Jz; AMIHICA DNI.INI'. ,\(ll, . 2.h4 t2,J125 K9.S75 \,fl{JH.l'i'.(>ffnlttl' MSIT +fJ,20 •7.S62S I 29.562!i INl'f.l.UlRI' INIC t6,R~ ,7.3750 l IS.OU CIS« I SY, f'f.M, csco . .\.80 tU7SO 79,75 vfCI WOJH.IH'OM INC WC:Olv1 +~.JO -t·l.125/1 62,125 .\UN MICltO'.\\'.!»Tf.M~ '.'illNW .l ,lJ:i •5.K7 50 N.9.i75 (:t1M1 1AQ c:OMl'U'rl:I< Cl'Q +5.SH +l.H125 ;1v12s f t,<illf AO.l ·uM INl EliCS 1.2.l .IJ ..ll 2.1 25.167:'i 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

ASSOCI/\TED P1rnss 
NEW YORK 

Pulling off the richest corporate takeover in history, Exxon will buy Mobil for $77.2 billion to create the world's largest company and reunite two of the biggest pieces left by the breakup of John Rockefeller's Standard Oil empire. 
The deal, announced Tuesday, joins the nation's two largest oil and gas companies. It's the latest example of rapid consolidation in an industry whose profits have been slashed by worldwide overproduction and weak demand. 
However, despite the massive size of the new Exxon Mobil Corp., the global trends that prompted the deal are expected to keep pump prices at rock­bottom levels for now. 
Exxon Mobil will surpass Royal Dutch-Shell Group as the No. 1 energy company and vault past General Motors Corp. as the largest corpora­tion in the world, with $203 billion in combined revenue last year. Exxon is about twice Mobil's size in annual revenue. 
Company executives said Tuesday they expect the deal to reduce annual expenses by $2.8 billion. That includes the elimination of roughly 9,000 jobs or about 7 percent of the companies' combined work force of 123,000. 
The decision to merge two once­fierce competitors was necessary given the increasingly difficult com­petitive climate, the companies said. 
"We need to face some facts. The world has changed," Mobil chairman Lucio Noto said at a news conference. ''The easy things are behind us." 
Exxon Mobil will have about 48,500 gas stations around the world, with roughly a third in the United States, plus exploration and production oper­ations worldwide. On a daily basis, the companies together produce 2.5 billion barrels of oil and equivalent amounts of natural gas more than Kuwait. 
The companies' well-known gas sta­tion brand names -along with the Exxon tiger and Mobil's red Pegasus -will be retained. But analysts expect the companies will have to sell off numerous gas stations and refiner­ies to satisfy government antitrust regulators. 

free the land;0 Ahn:rnd Qureah speaker. hf thlt . Palestinian Jegislat.1,re, .sa~d {I.~ l:l; rally for:PrigoneJt, releases ln the West Bank o!tiQ{Ha11)a!Iah..·. ·. •.·.·•. . : 
The· commtmt!'I dr.ew a sharp 1·esporise' from' lsra:eL 
"The prime minist~r will not tplel"a.te• tlirea.:ts .of -vfo-;, 
lence," read a statement issued by Netanyahu's offlce. 
Palestinians claim Israel promised .at the Wye" Rivet 
summit last mol,lth .to tree 750 prisoners from poHtical 
factions. lsrael released 250 Pt'i;;o:p.~rsla,st uion.lJl, }?J.tt1: 
most ware car thieves ttndpetty ctooks: ···•·•·'· ··.·•···•· ii ,
Netanyahu llaid h<3 eould riot telea,se ,p:rlson~t~, wl19,{ 
The stock swap deal will give Mobil shareholders 1.32 shares of Exxon. It tops British Petroleum's planned $58.5 billion purchase of Amoco Corp. as the largest corporate takeover and, at current stock prices, outranks Bell Atlantic Corp.'s $72.6 billion merger with GTE Corp. and the $69.9 billion union of SBC Communications Inc. and Ameritech Corp. 
Energy prices have been hammered to historic lows by weak demand from the tattered economies of Asia and, more recently, unusually warm autumn weather in the United States. Adding to the oversupply is the failure last week of the OPEC nations to agree on production cutbacks. Also last week, Iraq renewed its oil-for­food deal with the United Nations allowing a partial lifting of the world oil embargo against Iraq if it uses the proceeds for food and medicine. 
At the time of the Persian Gulf crisis in 1990, the wholesale price of a bar­rel of crude oil topped $40. Today it's around $11. The average price of a gallon of unleaded regular gasoline was 97.4 cents this week, the lowest since the U.S. Energy Department began keeping track in 1990. 

Palestine demands prisoner release 

< had,been involved in attacks on Israelis. "l will not back qown on this,·· he vowed. JE,RU~AfEM' A.Hnied Tihl, an advisor to Palestinian foadcr Vasser 

Palestinians Stepped up their.deniands.1'uesday for: Arafat, appealed.to Ptesident Clinton to resolve growing the release of prisone.ts Jaili?d _t:or antH~ra~l q~ts., a~. t.Ph~ior•~ ov!:lr israel's refusal to release so-called secud· Prime Minister nenjamln Netanyahli said he would hof fy pl'isoners. · · budge on the issue:•.. · · . ·· · .. .·•· ·.· ..·· ...,....·. ..... . <'rihi said only about 300 of the Palestinians in jail had 
"Th~ leadershiPJha~ tbte»' st9n_~ is, prf!pqreg .J.lC~" peepin.volyed Jn attacks that killed Israelis. The rest he again to throw stcmos}n order t'o free the pe6ple'a9d to ... 0(,)Sd:ibed i$ "political prisoners." 
The issue, which has prompted clashes between ~tone-throwb1g Palestinian youths and Israeli soldiers. Jfx,1lsing conc,irns about violence in advance of Clinton's Dec.· 12-15 · visit to Israel and tlw Palostlnian­
·ruled lands, 
•Tlle lsra.eli daily Haaretz reported that Israel! security officiaJshad urged Netanyahu tn ngrM to freti more Palestinian activists to prevent rioting. ... ()emqn.stratlons h;i.ve. been held almost daily in sup-
podof Palestinian prisoners. with s<nne of tho ang(ir
di.fttcted toward Arafat and his government. 

.W 
VIEWPOINT 
page6 OB~ERVER --------------Wednesday, December 2, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRF DAMF. OFFICE, P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
..\WATN'ONICA G\.\OU\.D \lVE ~D.. 

SAINT MARv'S Orf!CE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
1'DITOR-IN-CHIH' 
Hea1her Cocks 

MANAGING fnJTOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Brian Reinthnler Kyle Catlin 
AsslSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ...................},iichelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER. .... ,................... 13ryan Lut2. VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................Eduardo Llull An DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelar SPORTS EDITOR...... ..... Kathle<;."t1 Lop~z SYSTEMS MANAGER ....................Michad Brouillet SCENE EDITURS ............................Sarah Dylag CONTROLLER .....................................Davc Rogero 
Krirn Klit5ch WEil ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ..,,,., ........................Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
[he (.)bsetvcr is the indc:pcndcnf newspaper publish«l by th-c 5tudcmsof [he University ~fNotrc .Dame Ju l.a1; .md Saim Mary'!j: Collrgc. h docs noc nc:a:ssariJy reflect chc: policies of the adminiscrarion ~f~nhcr.instuut~o~. The news is rcponcd as accurardy arid objectively~ possible. Unsign~d c<lnorio1.h rcpre5em {h: opmion of rhc m.aJ~my of fhc F,elicor~in-Chicf, Managing Editor, Assman, Managmg Editor and depanmc::nt «l.1cors. _Commc:mancs'. lcnc.rs and <.:olumas pr~nt the vic.w1, o( the authors, and nm ncccss.J.rily those oFThc Observer. V1t~pomt sp.1e; ts av:1l~bk to all members ofrhe: None Dame/Saint Mary's community and co all readers. The fr« expression of varymg opu11ons throl1gh Jencrs is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Managing Edimr/As,isrant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 
Ncw,/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631·883~ 
Sports 6jl-4543 Fax 63H5927 
Scene/Saint Mary', 631-4540 Viewpoiru E-Mail Vicv,,-poin(. l@nd.edu 
Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail obscrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.edu Offii;e Manager/General Information 631•7471 News E-Mail observcr.obsnews. I@nd.edu 


¦ Goo 'r..i LIFE 

Where Some look for 'More' 
Within the darkly wood paneled chapel at St. Gregory's Abbey, Three Rivers, Michigan, the sun shines through louvered skylights, reminiscent of how sunbeams break through the clouds after a 
=============== spring
rain. 
choir
Julie A. Of22 
stalls, 
eight are
Ferraro onlv 
occu­pied 
----------------with robed Benedictines chanting the Psalms. There is a blessed peace here, but the question arises for those witnessing these prayers from the guest chapel: where arc the young men? The religious vocation crisis has touched almost every Christian church in modern times -times• when materialistic success is stressed in both the family environment and by society in general. God's call to serve is "put on hold" when college majors of law. architecture or accounting merit so much more "notoriety." This is a true shame, since serving God merits eternal life. Becoming a slave to the "almighty dollar" leaves a soul noth­ing to show for it in the end. The young men who might fill the 14 vacant choir stalls at St. Gregory's arc where they have been urged to go. And, after years of being urged toward affiuence and success, it takes a special kind of faith to sift through the "clutter" and hear the Divine Voice that still whispers, "Come, follow me." Young men who participate in St. Gregory's Summer Vocation Program are offered an oppor­tunity to get in touch with that Voice. They may come because they are curious, or they want a bit of time away from the ordinary routine, or they have heard of the Abbey's international reputa­tion. After two weeks or more of prayer, work and silence, they may leave with the sense of a renewed relationship with God. One or two may ask to return at a later date and try the Benedictine life as a monk. It is not an easy life. The monks of SL Gregory's have acres and acres of trees that are farmed using environmentally rcsponsibl<. methods. Though not directly in charge of this farming, there are countless other duties to perform: cook­
ing, cleaning, tending the vast library (over 11,000 books), studying, answering correspon­dence, welcoming guests, preparing the quarterly "Abbey Letter" and attending conferences or meetings outside the Abbey. The most important duty, according to the 15-century-old Rule of St. Benedict, is prayer. 
The monks rise before the sun does most days to pray Matins, also known as Vigils or the Office of Readings. They gather in chapel again six more times throughout the day for prayer, including the Holy Eucharist. Thus joined around the altar, they place the cares and concerns of the world into God's loving hands. 
It cannot be assumed that all this prayer and silence turns the monks into "sanctimonious" individuals. Each one has a sense of humor, unique talents, and personal trials. While reading a humorous book during meals in the refectory (dining room), they can be heard breaking out in hearty laughter. Together, they form a family not unlike most families in cities around the world. They care for each other through illness, and rejoice in times of good fortune. They live simply, serving those in need as best they can. 
Their focus on God has led them away from ideas of worldly success, yet many of the world's concerns remain. Bills must be paid, buildings maintained and the unforeseen handled. Decisions are made after discussion and consul­tation with the entire community, though, instead of leaving the Abbot to do it all himself. This more "democratic" way of running a religious congregation was originated by St. Benedict in the late 500s, and its wisdom has survived. 
And there is a wisdom in men serving God as monks. Even nestled among farms and trees well away from the bustling city-as St. Gregory's Abbey is -these men are a sign to the wider world that there is More to life. For young men who seek More than the weekly paycheck and hectic routine, this is where to look. 
Julie A Ferraro is the local sales representative for Faithwear, and is the executive director of The Pit Troupe theatre company. lier column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
'The Shirt' Much More Than a Shirt 
Wednesday night the Student Senate voted on the new executive coordinator of "The Shirt" Project. John Maus, executive coordinator for the past two years, turned over the largest student fundraiser to the most qualified person, Garett Skiba. The Observer has followed this process, but how many Notre Dame students know exactly what Maus turned over? In the past two years, he and his staff have sold almost 90,00f\ shirts. Student Activities has received two hundred thousand dollars ($200,000) for their budget making "The Shirt" Project Student Union's biggest fundraiser. Last year, the Justin Brumbaugh Scholarship and Adam Sargent received a good amount of what remained. This year it will be given to Keenan Hall's Brent Moberg. 
My freshman year I bought the green shirt in the bookstore because my roommates and the women in my dorm told me "everyone" wore it to the first football game. That was all that was said about "The Shirt." Everyone knows about the beer cans and trash left outside the ticket booths, the flying squid at the Baylor football game, and even a little bit of attention was given a few weeks ago to the scandal behind Skiba's nomination. How many times, however, have we read about John Maus writing a check to the family of Justin Brumbaugh on behalf of the student body? If we heard about it at all, it was not enough. John Maus was correct when he said that the Student Senate's dispute a few weeks ago about the nomination process was the first time, good or bad, that "The Shirt" has received much attention. To me, that is a Big problem. As students, "The Shirt" is our project and our time and our money. It is a student organization and unlike much of the money exchanged on this campus, the university does not get the majority of it. It comes directly back to us either through Student Activities or in the form of a donation to a student and his or her family. 
If I had a picture of John Maus I would attach it to this letter and ask you to thank him for serving the Notre Dame community for the past two years. Maus and "The Shirt" arc not money makers for the book­store. "The Shirt" is not just another project with a committee made up of students who need to fill a resume. It is a huge part of Notre Dame football and the student body that cheers it on. It has meaning and a purpose and there is no reason that something this big or this benevo­lent has received such little recognition in the past. 
Next fall if the new color does not match your favorite pants, don't complain. Buy "The Shirt," wear it proudly, and take time to find out where the money goes. Wish Garett Skiba, the new executive coordina­tor, and his committee good luck. Finally, when the freshmen arrive in August, don't just tell them it's the tee shirt everyone wears to the first football game because now you know better. 
Emily Todd Co-l'residem. Farley I!all November 18, 1998 
¦ DOONESBURY 
50WI-IA7t:fJ I t<IA~ YOUl<IA/1/T 7'lJ 71-1/NK/NG /;f.)(.(1/ll-l ya;~ AS77/a=NT 
Net-11£1/SCRE.­ACTIVITY/ T/O't/Ali?Y T,IME, K/Ja,VANY 
I ZIP? eaJP\ ClVt:G? 

HQ'AJABCllTA LECll/R&?7J.IE fa,/llCAI.. IJNION /!3 H0511NG A 7All<.l,(J/lHRaANPftE:/?tEt 
"THAT 7VNel<ISc::VW 
/ l?OLANP 
Jl/3a.£Y.<' 
~'-. 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
I WOIIWR IF Hl3 t<IAS ave Or moseB!:t-?WAY fJOZai/(/f/O'Vb f£t;W r:BT­
TING ITtuRONG&VeKY ~~ t?AYSINC&LA5T \ JANUARY,,, 
\ 
¦ UuoTE OF THE DAY 
, Jdon't know why you're 
messed up/ I don't know why your whole life is a chore / Just do me a favor / And check your baggage at the door.' 
-Excerpt from The Offspring's 'She's Got Issues' 

----·------------­

VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, December 2, 1998 -----------------
-----------------------page 7 
¦ LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
ls ND Cheap? Tell me so I can not Listen 
I am but u lowly freshman at this fine institution and as such have been on cam­pus !'or only thrf\P short months. In this limn I have become a rnlativcly consistent rnad,1r of the Observer and have noticed, as wns documented in an "Inside Column" from earlio r in tho week, lhat tile issues which most rnise the ire of our student body are. if nothing else, repetitive. ln addition, tho articlo notod, some stu<ll•'!Ots respond to these issues "vlth such fre­qmmcy and tenacity that I.he ''LettPrs" dP.p1irtrnenL has becomn little more tha.n a column for the select group which speaks out. In short. somf' people complain. whilo others 1miroly complain 1,bout the complaining. 
I must adrr1it !hat I haw, yet to fef'l so touched by any !-;uch Issue ,is t(> actually sit and composti my thoughts. Call it apa• thy if you must, but none of the contro­versial powderkegs planted by both the students and administration havo gen­uinely raised my interest. Until now. I have run smack into an issue which I can not g1it past and which, I vow, affects at least potentially each and every student on this campus regardless of their age, race, gender and yes, even sexual orien• tation. 
I'm not sure that Notre Dame will ever be accused ol' being inexpensive. ln fact I'm sure it won't. Cheap on tho other hand, well that's a difforent story. This morning at the conclusion of my gym class, I was informed that in order to sharpen my new and improving racquet­ball skills during my free time, I'd better bring a dollar. To rent a racquet. (Yes, I'm sP-riousJ. If r want to keep both of my own eyeballs, woops, sorry, gotta' buy a pair of' goggles. Disgust kept me from hanging ttround to !ind out how much ... if you're interested, call Tho Rock. When I got back to my room and vented this frus­1.ration on my dormmates who. incidental· ly. enjoy tho occasional late night match of ping-pong available at our state of the art Holfs Fitness Center, they laughed at me. Oh you didn't know'? Ping pong balls arc a dollar too. For one. 
I suppose a more legitimate com­plainant would have researched such a gripe and found out exactly where this monPy goes, (probably the same place the mandatory ten dollar ticket to PE does) but I decided I didn't have to. No matter what answer l received it would be in adequate. Whether the cost is twenty bucks or two bits, I'm wondoring why I have to pay (AGAIN) to use the on-cam~ pus facilities? Don't my parents, really don't all of our parents, already pay enough'! Could they possibly try and tell me that the dollar is insurance of' my bod• ily hMlth while I play ping-pong, or is something nls1i, say, a hidden slush fund to commission new and exciting modern arL sculptures for Ute quads, in the works? One can only wonder ... 
Maybe I'm being a little overzealous here ... maybe, you'll say, I'm just anoth· er giddy froshmon who has come to col· legn and is dying for a cause of my own ... maybe ... maybe not. In my own estima• tion (und believe nw. the chance of this g<'tting publishnd and causing for me end­less hours of torment and embarrassment tho likos of' which could be assuaged Mly through transf'C'r to a loss credible, say, BIC 10 srhool, has compelled me to think this one ovHr) this question is highly prac• Ural. lf'there is an answer out there I'd invitf! someone, anyone, to provide it as soon us possible, Not that I'll listen to your a.rgument, but then isn't that what writing these letters are all about'? 
Paul A. Camacata 
Freshman, Dillon Hall 
Thursday, November 19, 1998 

¦ WE LEARNED MORE FROM ATHREE-MINUTE RECORD, BABY 
What Does African Reconciliation Have to do With us? 
llere's a photograph -It's a hot November day an hour outside of Bloemfontein, South Africa. The sky is brightest blue. Long grass the color of honeyed toast rnrpnts the land which gnntly falls and rises. There arr no fHnces or phone lines. In the middle of the frame, at the end of an overgrown pair of wagon tracks, stands 
=================Johannes Krnalshoek. Johannes is a
Mary 

wiry little man. He is just over 
five feet tall, has jutting cheek­bones and 

Margaret 
Nussbaum 
squinted char­coal eyes. A -----========----'(at' tractor 
company hat floats on his head of tight black curls, whito wisps sneaking out here and there. Jlis name attests lo the C<mnans and Afrikaners who hav<! claimed this land for their cattle, their missions, and their laws of 'separate development.' 
But, Johannrs is a Griqua, one of several tribes in the area, and he knows who this land belongs to. He is one in a long line or herdsman, their cattle growing strong in this dry corner of earth. Now there are no cattle any­where and tho herdsman's descendants live in the tin and cardboard 'squatter' houses in town. A scattering of clay bricks behind Johannes is what little evidence remains of where his family's house once stood. This photo is mostly of emptiness. 
But, look closer, those squinting eyes are full of stories and full of wonder. The Southern African government began moving Johannes' family, slowly, systematical­Iv, off of their land in 1920. 'foe people were taken to tribal 'homelands;' deso­late, overpopulated scraps of land that bred bleakness. Johannes left his ranch in 1974. lle's spent the last twenty some years working for the railway, raising his children and cleaning white men's swimming pools. 
lie retired last year. Now he's corning home. South African historv, like the people's histo~y of the United States, sounds like a long sob. Separated by time and space, both nations tell the tale of independent European settlers escaping persecution only to turn and vanquish the people living in these treks of wilderness. 
It's page upon bloody page of a class struggle, or a power struggle, or a race struggle. or maybe a noble struggle where guns all too often symbolize providence smiling, depending upon who's summarizing. Whatever sort of struggle it is, 
. anonymous men like Johannes Kraalshoek are the foot­notes of the footnotes somewhere in the endnotes and they are the ones who get squished like mosquitoes. 
South Africa and the United States lead the world in, per capita, the highest rate. uf gun possession, the largest prison population and the most churches. Until recently, South Africa had the highest rate of capital punishment. 
Both nations sec things in blar,k and white. WP tend to think of our civil rights struggle as one that 'ended' around the dawn of the disco era and occasionally snags us in awkward conversations about O.J.'s glove, or why the car doors need to be locked in certain neighborhood, or admission to California law schools. We have the sub­urbs, they have the townships. We arc much, much far­ther along. 
But these struggles; they are variations on a theme. hJr South Africans the wounds are raw. 
Four short years ago, political 'comrades' were still disappearing in the night and the police were torturing tactrully, so as not to leave marks. 
Pour short years ago, Johannrs' dream of returning home was onlv that, a dream. 
This November. with 15 other Griquas and a small herd of cattle, he came home. This, perhaps, is when hope and history rhyme. The South African government, under the leadership of Nelson Mandela and the African National Congress, is trying something new. They are trying. in the word US(~d by Nob(il Peacn Prize recipient Archbishop Desmond Tutu, to "reconcile." It's a bravn and brutal thing to watch. 
It gets messy because everyone, opprossor and oppressed, i~ dirty and now everyone must jump in the same cleansmg waters together. llead first. The social• ists havP a say; land is being redistributed. But, it's being bought back at marke·t value, the capitalist way. 
The former security forces and resistance forces am answering lo their victims through the arduous Truth and Reconciliation Commission proceedings. But, unlike the blanket amnesty granted to retroating Latin American juntas or the more punitive justice of the Nuremberg trials, the THC is holding truth (with amnesty as the incentive) above all else. Mothnrs ask booted men, "where are my child's bones'?" Everyone waits for the answer. 
Mandela abolished the death penalty and the courts are being told to exercise their teaching capacity, not deliver Pavlovian shocks of sentences. Churches in Cape Town post signs for weekly 'reconciliation' meetings where you sit and talk to your neighbors who am so for­eign to you. South Africans am starting to tell the truth about who they arc, where they've been, what's been lost and what can be done. It may never end. But this is what political leaders can do. They can signal the time for a changing of seasons ... lo everything turn, turn, turn ... 
There is really no reason why any of us should give a damn about Johannes Kraashoek. lie is a tiny speck on this golden landscape, tinier still in the maelstrom of South African history and truly inconsequential to an undergrad in Indiana with papers to write. 
Ile doesn'L need a gov­ernment 'handout.' lie cer­tainly doesn 'L need the knee-jerk reactions of guilt-laden leftists. But we need him, and desperately. We are so tainted by the sordid soap opera that 'politics' has come to mean, that we've forgotten it's most basic application; who gets what, when and how. 
Wo. by virtue of our apa­thy, will let that star-span­gled thing that everybody wants, a representative democracy, slip away. We're Americans. we're like the pretty prom queen that you're scared to turn your back on. Wn'vc got it all: fast cars, !'aster com­puters. full bnllies, heroin, Hollywood and higher edu­cation. So who needs Mandela and all of this talk of consciousness? Who needs an old, tattered Griqua man and his old, 
j tarnished dream? We do, desperately. 
-Johannes has a few months before the rainy season. First, he says, he is going to clear the thick moss film from the spring. Then he is going to rebuild the houses. He will have to get many more cattle to support the 400 Griquas who are joining him and he has much to teach his city-raised grandchildren about ranching. This is his retirement. 
This is the sweating man that folks in air-conditioned offices would like to write off as a lazy-good-for-nothing leech. ls it the afternoon light, or is Johannes glowing'? He walks through the rubble; "this was my kitchen; th(! sleeping room ... " He laughs recalling how his father would holler for coffee and how he and his brother would squabble over who had to rise and milk the goats. He climbs to a lone tree on the hill and tells of how, under its gracious shade, his father taught him to paint. They painted pictures of this lonesome landscape. Jle'II return here with his grandchildren. The days will be long and the work exhausting. But, this is where his treasure lies, and so to, his heart. 
Johannes sees us off. "Next time you see me," he says, ''I'll be fat." There's a rustling. Is it tho wind in the grass or the rustling of wings -those feathered soul dwellers -the birds of hope, alighting on his shouldnrs? Tlrny carry him away. We're caught in the brenze. 
Mary Afargaret Nussbaum is a junior currently stud11­
ing abroad in Namibia. · 
The views expressed in this column are those of The Author and not necessaril!J those of The Observer. 

O
THE 
Wednesday, December 2, 1998
BSERVER 



Photo courtesy of Capricorn Records 
Rcently the trend in the music world has been to follow up a couple of suc­
essf'ul studio releases with a live compilation. Bands such as Counting 
Crows and Dave Matthews Band have released strong live albums that 
ave nicely complemented their small amount of studio work. Now 311 is trying to stick to the trend with their latest album simply titled Live. A couple sum­mers ago, I was coerced to attend a 311 concert with a few of my buddies. This unremarkable experience gives ma great insight to attempt to review the crap 311 has packaged and made available for the American public. Some of the same silly shenanigans that occurred at that concert are regurgitated on this CD. Only this time the pain is not as severe because I am able to stop the CD player whenever I want. 
Live is high on energy and low on musicianship. The album starts out with the explosive track "Down." The expert drumming of Chad Sexton, probably the only good musician in the group, anchors the song. Even the rapping of vocalist SA Martinez is fairly tolerable, ignoring the fact that he is from Omaha, NE and not Compton. 
Other tracks offer rays of hope, such as the party song "Freak Out" and the adrenaline-filled "Homebrew." It's too bad that the band only shows glimpses of being decent as they plow through their short songs. 
Guitarist Tim Mahoney could be decent if his guitar wasn't so heavily distorted on every single song. Although his work on "Beautiful Disaster" is acceptable, his solo 
311 
Live 
Capricorn Records 
* (out of five) 
on "Nix Hex" is so cheesy and distorted that it sounds lih a stereo shorting out. Bassist P-Nut (yeah, that's what they call him) is a mediocre bassist that tries to be like Flea on every track, including "Feels So Good." 
Co-lead vocalist SA Martinez could be somewhat entertaining, that is if his darned voice wasn't higher than my eight year old sister's. His rapping on "Galaxy" is sim­ply ridiculous. And that brings us to the leader of the band: Nick I-lexum. This man has the most annoying voice on this planet. I-le tries to rap; it doesn't work. He tries to sing; it doesn't work. He tries to sing reggae; that definitely doesn't work. His songs, designed to accommodate the attention span of a chimpanzee, are very short and very pointless. 
Some bands should just not be putting out live albums. Ok, if I had it my way some bands wouldn't be putting out any albums at all. 31 l has shown with this album that they are an annoying group with bad songs and bad musicians. They should regroup before their next studio album, and probably never release another live album again. Do not be fooled by the funky cover art: 311 's Live is a dead effort. 
GeoffRahie 

Peter Wolf 
Fool's Parade 
Polygram Records 
**** (out of five) 
After reading the heading to this review, you arc probably wondering who this Peter Wolf character is. Is he. some new, groundhre.aking, solo artist that is emerging from obscurity to superstardom? Or. is he the next Snoop Doggy Dogg? You probably don't have a clue even though I'm sure you've heard his music before. For years, Peter Wolf sang in the J. Geils Band. Who, in case you're not familiar with The J Geils Band. was responsible for the timeless 80s anthem, "Centerfold." Yes, the gaunt, wiry guy dancing on the top of school desks and drawing on rhalk­boards in the video is Poter Wolf. So, now you at least get a picture of who I'm talk­ing about. Sino~ The J. Geils Band broke up in 1983, Wolf has gone on to pursue a solo earner. lie has released four, barely noteworthy, albums before this current release of Fool's Parade. All of his previous albums just seemed to be missing something. But Fool's Parade is different. Wolf, himself, calls this his "most intimate and per­sonal work." The album is deuicated to his mother who passed away just befote he went into the studio to record this album. The music on Fool's Parade is good. Wolf begins lhe CD with the soulful and remi­niscent "Long Way Back Again," which really summarizes his attempt, after his suc­cess with The J Geils Band, to climb back to the top. l-lis soulful sounds invoke images of the great soul singers. His songs remind you of Al Green, Wilson Pickett and Otis Redding. This album also sounds a little like Wolfs friend and former roommate, Van Morrison. His songs are personal and true. They are pretty easy to relate to your own life He sings about struggling, hard lessons finally learned and the cost of a lost love. My 

Photo courtesy of Polygrarn Records 
favorite track on the album is "The Cold Ileart of the Stone." It's a look back into the crazy days of his youth. 
On this album, Wolf tugs the lrnartstrings and f'orcr,s you to relate the songs to your own life. Fool's Parade is a powerful album that provokes philosophical thought on life and hardship. Which isn't too bad for a white guy that used to sing about his angel, tho centerfold and something called a freeze frame. 
Although this album is reminiscent of those great artists, I don't think Peter Wolf' will·be mentioned in the sanH1 breath. On the whole, Fool's Parade is a good album. Wolf provides the slow jams and the rock 'n' roll. The only problem is Wolf doesn't do anything that hasn't been done before. These songs of heartache and remem­brance have been sung by many and will be sung by many more. Wolf can definitely sing them, but because he wasn't one of the first, he won't be recognized as une of the great soul singers. That doesn't mean you people can't listen to him though. 
How many more times can you stand listening to "Brown-Eyed G.irl" and "Moondance" anyway'? How many more 311 or Bush albums can you listen to? Who can take all that aggression all the time? If you're sick of hearing distorted, post-grunge and old classics all the time, give Peter Wolf a listen. Take a class in good old rock 'n' soul-he was making records bcforn the guys in 311 and Bush were born anyway. 
Joe Larson 


•ms ffiie Secrson... 
...to buy some lovely Christmas albums 







UPCOMING S-HOWS 
CHICAGO INDIJ\Nl\POLIS 
-· 

N'Sync Fun Lovin' Criminals John Hiatt Buffalo Tom John Spencer Blues Ex. Big Bad Voodoo Daddy Kool &The Gang Dave Matthews Band Blues Traveler Cheap Trick Chris Isaak local H Greg Allman 
Dec:. 3 Murat Dec. 4 Double Door Dec. 5 Riviera Dec. 9 Metro Dec. 12 Metro Dec. 16 House of Blues. Dec. 18 House of Blues Dec. 19 United Center Dec. 30-31 Aragon Ballroom Dec. 31 Double Door De,. 31 House of Blues 
.•.. Dec. 31 Metro 
Jan. 3 House of Blues 
S

oulL Bend 
.___jGo_o_G_oo_D_o_ll_s___D_e_c._1_4__H_ea__rt_la_n_d__.....I· 
N' Sync 
Koko Taylor NeilQiamondBrute Hornsby 
KISS 
B•tter Thc,n ·kra Rusted Root The Why Store 
Dec. 3 Dec. 3 Dec. 7 Dec. 7 Dec. 13 Dec. 17 Dec. 28 Dec. 31 
Murat Theatre Patio Lounge 
Roberts Stadium Vogue Theatre Market Sq. Arena Vogue Theatre Murat Theatre World Mardi Gras 
OfflO-MICHIGJ\N 
Tori Amos Dave Matthews Band  .  Dec. 2 Dec. 10  Van Andel Arena (G. Rapids) Palace of Auburn Hills  
Candlebox Beck Garbage Barenaked ladies . ~=!:t:c~:kah  Dec. 11 Dec. 20 Dec. 20 Dec. 27 Jan. 1 Jan. 1 S  Mich. Theatre (Ann Arbor) Joe Louis Arena (Detroit) Joe Louis Arena (Detroit) Van Andel Arena (G. Rapids) St. Andrews Hall (Detroit) Magit Bag (Ferndale, Ml)  


..--------_.-----------------------------------------------=----------all 
Wednesday, December 2, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 10 
¦ NFL 

Leg injury puts Young down for the count 
Associated l'ress "It's quite a loss for us," said Mariucci. who choked up SANTA CLARA, Calif. at times as he spoke of' Bryant Young's agonized Young. "It's a similar situa­scream as he collapsed told tion to when we lost Jerry Tim McDonald all he needed Rice, which also was devas­to know about his teammate's tating and we needed to gruesome injury. regroup and rally and pick up 
"I understand how the leg the slack." bends and it wasn't bending Added defensive tackle like it was supposed to," .Junior Bryant: "There is not McDonald said. one person that is going to 
Young, one of the league's compensate for him. It is 
best players and the San going to have to be all of us." rrancisco 49ers' defensive Young. San Francisco's anchor, underwent surgery first-round pick out of Notre Tuesday at Stanford Hospital, Dame in 1994, had 9.5 sacks the day after fracturing both and was on his way to anoth­bones in his lower right leg in er Pro Bowl season when he a freak, sickening collision on went down in a fast. frighten­the field. ing. sequence during the 
Team physician Dr. Michael fourth quarter of Monday Dillingham inserted a metal night's 31-7 win over the New rod into the tibia. the main York Giants. weight-bearing bone between New York's Kent Graham the knee and ankle. scrambled out of the pocket 
The fibula. a smaller sup­and Young and linebacker porting bone, was set and will Ken Norton Jr. closed in from be allowed to heal on its own. opposite directions to make He's out for the rest of this the tackle. Young had season and could miss a part grabbed hold of Graham's jer­of next season, as well. sey when Norton plowed into 
"With all things considered. the frav and his helmet struck he seemed to be in good spir­Young squarely on the leg. its and certainly he's getting a With Young's cleat firmly lot of' support," said coach planted in the soggy turf, his Steve Mariucci. who visited leg buckled, bending at a Young in the hospital before grotesque angle. Young fell to the surgery. the ground, his anguish evi­
"In speaking with Dr. dent to anyone who saw his Dillingham about the progno­face or heard his screams. sis, he shared with me that "I could tell Brvant was there's a good possibility that hurting pretty bad," said 
H.Y. will play next season. Graham. "It was a Joe With the exception of ning back Napoleon Mccallum "He feels as bad as anybody Obviously, there are no guar­Theismann-type injury. It's Young, perhaps no one took with a career-ending knee does and Kenny has to get antees, because a lot of h_eal­something you just hate to his injury harder than Norton, injury. over it, too," Mariucci said. "It ing has to take place and see." who played the rest of "This game is so strange," wasn't his fault." things have to go right." Theismann was playing for Monday night's game in a fog Norton said. "You're so fortu­Mariucci said for now, 
Dillingham estimated Young Washington when he suffered and then left for the hospital, nate to play it, but I don't Young would be replaced with would need eight to nine a broken leg in a 1985 where he stayed at Young's think people realize the a three-tackle rotation usingmonths of rehabilitation Monday night game after bedside until the early morn­chances we take to play this Brentson Buckner, Shane before trying to play again. being hit by the New York ing. thing. Everybody is one play Bonham and Gabe Wilkins. Mariucci said former 49ers Giants' Lawrence Taylor. It It must have seemed like a away from something like The 49ers also plan to acti­center Jesse Sapolu suffered a was Taylor who immediately recurring nightmare for this. It knocks you out. It's a vate defensive tackle David similar injury ear.Jy in his after the tackle began franti­Norton, who was also big hit in the chest. It's very Richie from the practice career and was able to come cally waving for a doctor. involved in the hit during a hard to live with." squad after the formality of back and resume a productive Theismann never played 1994 Monday night game that Mariucci said Norton was placing Young on injured career. again. left Los Angeles Raiders run-devastated by Young's injury. reserve. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. ar the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is Jcents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

Classifieds 
$7000/summer.Ask us how! 517· BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­336-4235 rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. 
NOTICES 
Ext.C55841

I ILOST & FOUND I 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30 am -Midnight Fri: 7:30 am • 7:00 pm Sat: Noon • 6:00 pm LOST: A SMC '98 class ring. engraved Megan E. Driscoll. REWARD! Please call 273-9155. Thank you! 
Full Color Desktop Publishing Services are now available at The Copy Shop in LaFortune. Design. Scanning, Printing and Copying in COLOR1 
House for rent, 105 Marquette, 5 bedrooms, available now and for next fall, 232-6964 
Room for Rent in Turtle Creek apartments.Call 273-2435. LaFortune Student Center 
Digitech RP-20 Floor Effects Processor/Preamp Only 1 year old, ex. condition. List: $799.99, asking $450.00 or b/o. Call 287-9910. ask for Brendan •• ATTENTION LESBIAN. GAY. BISEXUAL AND QUESTIONING STUDENTS•• Original student group will hold general meeting TONIGHT. Call info line for details 236-9661. 
ROBERT MONTGOMERY KNIGHT 

Sun: Noon -Midnight  
When you need copies, we're open!  WANTED  I I  FOR RENT  Roommates Needed ND Apts Call X4415  Smith Corona Word Processor Like New  Welcome to Notre Dame  
$100 OBO  Go Irish! Go Big Red!  
Early Spring Break  HELP WANTED: Parisi's  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  x1554  (Oh, I'm so confused)  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!Includes most meals! Awesome Beaches, Nightlife!Departs From FloridalCancun & Jamaica  Restaurant call 232-4244 ASAP SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun•Nassau•Jamaica'Mazatlan  ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. Room. $250/mo. Use kit.  FOR SALE PREPAID PHONE CARDS  I I  PERSONAL  Looking for a unique gift? Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  
Air,Hotel,Mea!s &Parties  'Acapulco·Bahamas  2 mi. from campus.  198 MIN. $20  and we'll create a custom color cal·  
$339!Panama City Room With  Cruise'Florida'South Padre  Pref female grad. Ava,L end of  CALL 258-4805  endar.  
Kitchen,? Free Parties  Travel Free and make lots of  Dec.  FAX IT FAST!!!  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  Cash!Top reps are offered full-lime  246-1916.  Sending & Receiving  THE COPY SHOP  
$149!springbreaktravel .com  staff Jobs.Lowest price  at  LaFortune Student Center  
1-800-678-6386  Guaranteed.Call now tor details!  FOR SALE. LiVE PHISH COS!  THE COPY SHOP  
www.classtravel.com  THAT PRETTY PLACE. Bed and  Bed box set. not available in  LaFortune Student Center  
800/838-6411  Breakfast Inn has space available  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  Our Fax II (219) 631-FAX1  UMPHREY's McGEE announces  
for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  FAX IT FAST!!!  one last show before finals at  
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book  with private baths.$80­ 
Early & Receive a Free Meal  $115,Middlebury,30 miles from  MAC Powerbook145 $400060  THE FACTORY  
Planl!!Cancun & Jamaica  •ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST  campus.  x2116  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  421 E. Madison, across from the  
·­ $399,Bahamas $459.Panama City  SPRING BREAK PRICES TO  To11 Road.Exit #107  Break"  Madison Oyster Bar  
$99.  SOUTH PADRE (FREE  1-800-418-9487  Spring Break Packages are going  
1-800-234-7707  MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY- Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica  TONIGHT!  
endlesssummertours.com  WEST.PANAMA CITY.REPS  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Packages for the Class of '991Stop  
NEEDED/TRAVEL FREE,EARN  1.2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  frame.New,never used,s1111 in plas- In at Anthony Travel in the  Show starts at 10:00 pm, $3 cover,  
CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  CAMPUS. GILLiS PROPER­ lic.$225  laFortune Student Center and  21+  
6+  TIES 272-6551  219-862-2082  check out the best Spring Break  
ATTENTION JUNIORS'!! By now, all letters of invitation have  WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 800-838-8203.  Looking for a unique gift?  vacations around.Get your deposit in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  Hans. say ii ain't so.  
been sent for JPW. If your family  chance with an unknown agency or  
has not received their invitation,  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS.  Bring in 12 of your favorite pictures  some 1-800 number.Limited space  JD has the chunkiest B in town.  
stop by the JPW Office in 206  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT•  AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272·  and we'11 create a custom color cal•  available.so book now!  
LaFortune to pick up an application  Workers earn up to $2000+/month  6306  endar  .Anthony Travel, Inc.  This classified is dedicated to Hans  
to receive an invitation.  (w/tips & benefits).World  laFortune Student Center  Rasmussen. Fight the power.  
Travel!land-Tour jobs up to $5000­ THE COPY SHOP  631-7080  

page 11 The Observer• SPORTS Wednesday, December 2, 1998 · 
---------. -------------------------------------------------------­
¦ WAv Our IN LEFT Fino 
NFL's performance leaves much to be desired 
Br JOHN COPPOLELLA 
Spmrs Columni•t 

Whahwer happnned to the National Foolball League? 
Only a short tim4'l ago, the NFL was a league of power and panaclw. blessed with proud lnam!-i like thn Washington Hndskins. Chicago Bears. Kansas ('.ity Chiefs and Cleveland Browns. Today. the latter team will rnjoin tlm l1mgue under Pxpansion 11uspic1is. M1~anwhile, tho former Lhrcn teams have bncomo disgraces lo tlrn leagun. When did the NFL turn into thP predictable and disappointing 11ntity that it has become this SllilSOll? 
Thn answur does llOl lin so much in "wlrnn" as much as in "why." The five following rea­sons allude to "why" this might possibly b11 the worst NFL snason in rnctJnl mmnory: 
The NFL has morn crybahios than the NHA. Latrell Sprewell, nrnel Kmry Collins. Collins is lhe <ipitnme of what many NFL stars have uricomc. As the first pick in tlw history of tho Carolina Panthers franchisri, Collins was expected to carry the Panthers intu Urn next Cfmtury. After lead­ing them to the NFC title game two years ago, something hap­pened. 
Between breaking his jaw, denying a serious drinking prob­lem, and making racist remarks about teammates, Collins became one of the worst quar­terbacks in the league. A few weeks ago. he "quit." Saying his heart was no longer in it. Collins benched himself and left his tnammates stranded, all the while collecting his paycheck. He was eventually released, and picked up by the New Orleans Saints. After a game against lguess who?) the Panthers. Collins was arresLP.d for driving under the inlluence of alcohol. 
He is currently starting for the Saints, which is not much of an. accomplishment. and feels that he has finally been freed from expectations. Other players who could join Collins and Sprewell include Bryan Cox, Derrick Thomas, and Ryan Leaf. 
The NFL should throw away 
the rl'fs and bring back instant replay. In a recent poll on ESPN.com, 60 percent of those polled felt that the best way to solve the problems in officiating would bn to bring back instant replay. The Indianapolis Colts­San Francisco 49ers game in Week 7 was given to the 49ers by the referees. a mislakc later admitted by the league. 
Routine problems could be solved through instant replay. and the games could be dedded by the performance of the play­ers on the lield; not by the opin­ions of the guys i.n black-and­white running around like chick­ens without a head. It could even solve really diflicult problems, like say the calling of lhe coin toss. Even if it is brought back, the referees need some other assistance (i.e. classes, lines, etc.) to help them make the right calls they have been missing all year. 
The Denver Broncos havn become the Chicago Bulls of the NFL. I am not a Broncos fan. but even I enjoyed watching them win last year's Super Bowl after all the times that they and John 
Elway had fallen short in the big game. When he decided to return this year, I thought it was a bad decision. Was I ever wrong. 
There are only two teams that can stop the Broncos: the Vikings and themselves and, as good as the Vikings arc, the latter team poses a much more serious threat than the former. Broncos games have become mere for­malities. with Bubby Brister leading Denver to five-touch­down victories. Sure, it's fun to watch complete domination ... for a quarter. 
The NFC East, a traditionally dominant division, has become football's answer to baseball's American League Central. This year, the Dallas Cowboys arc leading a division that seemingly nobody wants to win. Like the AL Central, a record over .500 (never a problem for perennial division-winner Cleveland) guar­antees you a division crown. 
As bad as the Detroit Tigers. Minnesota Twins, Kansas City Royals, and Chicago White Sox 



For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDLGS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr.Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 
were last ynar, with a combinnd record of 287-370, the NFC East has bncn worse (a combined record of 15-32). This division. with the Cowboys, New York GianL,;, and Washington Redskins has won the most Supor Bowls since 1 Y87. The two other members of the league are the Philadelphia Eagles and the Arizona Cardinals. Ugh. The Eagles were once rospoctable, but so was Marv Albert. The Cardinals may be the futurn of the division, but lhat alone should concern you. 
The Atlanta Falcons are in first place. I have nothing against the Falcons and applaud their rcsur­genco, flven if it is in a division that is pPrcnnialiy the worst not only in football, but in all sports. It is the NFC West. with mem­b(irs such as the Panthers. Saints, and St. Louis Rams. 
llowever, the Falcons base their success on three factors: control the clock, run the ball and play good defense. Watching a Falcons game is about as excit­ing as going to The Boat Club if you're the designated driver. If the Falcons do make it to the playoffs, their style of play will turn fans off and further hurt NFL ratings. 
Is them hope for the NFL? Of course. Young stars like Moss, Peyton Manning, and Charlie Batch have given their teams a charge. and eventually power­houses like the Broncos and the Green Bay Packers will fade. In the meantime, however. I'll dream of the NPL of a few years ago rather than reminisce about last week's Falcons-Hams "game." 
_ 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per 1nonth for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-60 IO and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
--======================== 

Women's Basketball 
vs. 
Toledo 

Wed. Dec. 2 7:00pm Support Your Irish Wear Blue & Gold 




page 12

Wednesday, December 2, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS 
But the others leave too many questions to be deemed normal 
Insight 

and there have been too many to 
of influence over the decision, gram or the University. They just leading scorers and Harold Swanagan shows promise. 
certainly will ask those ques­didn't fit. tions. 
It's MacLeod's responsibility to When their senior year rolls MacLeod certainly isn't making make sure the seniors in high around, or if their senior year 
kids miserable with severe 
school who sign letters of intent rolls around, their experience, talent and some help from othertongue-lashings like those seen to play for Notre Dame fit. 

MacLeod needs every one of the classes could bring the Irish back at the Indiana University bench Tuesday night. 
four years out of his recruits. to prominence. Freshman David Graves and But that's another couple of
None of the transfers have bad-mouthed MacLeod, his pro-Troy Murphy are the team's years away. 
K E E N A N 
THIS WEEK KEENAN HALL PRESENTS 
8 Chri~tmas r-i'\ ~ (,,, pt; 't ~ a-pt; c-e-Instruction Available from 9:30-10:30 
q
\,,, 
~,r 
Lafortune Ballroom Saturday Dec. 5th 9:30-1 :30 
Admission: $2 or 2 canned food items Questions: Call Mike x3267 or Kevin x3274 
-(he Class of 2000 
Would like to thank all of the JUNIORS who have supported the class activities this semested 
Class of 2000 Golf Outing Center for the Homeless Fun Run 
Class shirt 
Purdue Game Concession Stand 
Mini Late Night Olympics with the Boys and Girls Club of South Bend Taco Bell in the Ballroom 
Class Mass Prayer Service at the Grotto 
Beat the Blue BBQ 
Halloween costume contest 
Subway at Stone-henge 
Cburftup~~ 
All you can eat al BW3's 
Free entrance to Armageddon 2111 Anal Haloweun lllllfre 
We look forward to another successful semester! 

continued from page 16 
program in the last several years than a coach might expect to lose in a 10-or 15-year tenure: Far too many people feel like they are better off elsewhere. 
Some coaches at the premier programs in the nation have the same problem, but their players are blinded by the dollar signs awaiting them in the NBA rather than galvanized by a desire to play for and earn degrees from schools like Pepperdine, Virginia or Oklahoma State. 
There were more reasons for 
Gottlieb's departure than playing 
time, coaching style or home­
sickness. Gottlieb had his infatu­
ation with running up the bill at 
Spiece with his roommate's 
credit card, which led to his 
transfer to Oklahoma State and 
its team. 

be acceptable. 
You simply can't return a pro­gram to where it should be when you can't keep your players. It's not quantum physics we're talk­
ing about. 
Macleod recruited some tal­ent, but it certainly wasn't the right talent. For one reason or another, they didn't find their home under the Dome. 
Potentially more dangerous 
than losing current players is 
losing future ones. 
How does coach Macleod 
respond to blue-chippers who 
are considering donning the 
blue-and-gold of the Irish when 
they ask why there have been 
five transfers in three-and-a-half 
years? 
If those kids are just thinking 
about all the playing time they'll 
see their freshman year, their 
parents, who still hold quite a bit 
The Observer/John Daily 
Sophomore forward Hans Rasmussen left the Notre Dame basketball team this week, deciding the program wasn't a perfect fit for him. 
"As You Wish" 

; Imports f:; 
Sweaters, Tapestries,Jewelry, Accessories 
Great Selection of Hemp jewelry & much morel Guatemala • Bali • Thailand • Mexico • Ecuador • Braiil • India 
HUGE CLEARANCE SALE!! 
Free gift with every purchase!! 
<Orie, vali1 ••• lh11e o"lp 
Unbeliettable Bargain Cornerl 
. •Proceeds from this corner help send 4 Guatemalan children 
to school. ...~ 
• 
~
0

ther donations Greatly Appreciated ~ LaFort;une· Room 108, Nov. 30· Dec. 4 10-5pm ~ 
"My year in Ireland was the best year of my life." -Beth Beatty Saint Mary's College funior, 
Saint Mary's College Ireland Program 
Information Session: 
TONIGHT -DECEMBER 2 Haggar College Center Room 303 • 7:00 p.m. 
Students discuss traveling in Ireland and Elll'Ope. National University of IreJ Maynooth, Ireland. Everyone welcome! 
APPLICATIONS DISTRIB 


,..--.. -----w -------­
·­
page 13 
Gallle 
continued from page 16 
gd anything going," Murphy said. Notrn Dame did display an ability to play with ono of the top 
The Observer• SPORTS 

teams in the country for over 40 minut11s. That was no small task after a long flight home from Alaska after losses to Duke and Alaska-Anchorage, and a strug­glP, to beat Southern Utah. 
"We had a lot of time to think on the llight back," Murphy said. "Wo were thinking about how 
JfNTERRACE 
Wednesday, DecemLer 2, 1998 
5:30 pm. at the CSC 
we really wanted to take it to Indiana and it's a big rivalry and we rnally wanted this one." 
Knight's Hoosiers had to battle the same jet lag and grueling schedule after three games in Hawaii, but Knight colorfully stated that there was no excuse for his team's 15 turnovers and 



Wednesday, December 2, 1998 
getting out-worked on the boards by a 43-33 margin. 
" Notre Dame came back from Anchorage, at least the sun shines in ... Maui," Knight said. "You freeze the ass on a Polar Bear up there. They played a hell of a lot better coming back playing three games in a row then we did." 
Said MacLood, "When you play against Indiana you're either going to play hard or you're going to get a licking. It was a great college game and we put out a tremendous effort." 
The packed Joyce Center that might have been more Hoosier red gave the Irish more incen­tive. 
"We came out for warm-ups and there was applause and when Indiana came out there was a roar," said Murphy. "It seemed that most of the arena was Indiana fans and that gave us the extra added incentive to try to get a win." 
Recker lead all scorers on 8­for-18 shooting and five three pointers, and A.J. Guyton burned the Irish for 17. 
MacLeod got outstanding per­formances from freshmen Murphy and Harold Swanagan, who had 11 points and nine rebounds, including six offensive boards. Swanagan also gave his squad second opportunities by simply outworking and out-bat­tling the Hoosiers. 
"Harold is a leader," MacLeod said. "He's a freshman in his class but he's a leader on the team already. He's a great com­petitor." 
While the Irish couldn't deliver their fans the big treat, they probably gave coach Knight and the Hoosiers a little too much. 
"There was no question in my mind how tough this game was going to be," Knight said. "They have had a tendency to play real well here and real well against us. They played real well today." 
Notre Oame had Indiana down 47-39 five minutes into the sec­ond half, but Guyton and Hecker erased the lead and gave their squad a chance t.o win in regula­tion. But after Dillon's heroics, they had to earn the victory in overtime. 
"f probably get caught up in what we didn't do, but we were down eight or 10 points in the second half and come back," Knight said. "I think it's very tough to have a game won and let it get away from you and then win in overtime. I have to be pleased with their ability to do those things. I'm nut very pleased with the way we played." 
"J think most people would probably to be happy to come up and win," Knight said. "But what makes me happy is playing well. I just don't like to see us not play well and not think." 
Ironically, Knight's post-game press conference sounded like it was after a loss, but MacLeod's sounded like the game was a win as he was encouraged by the play of his freshman. 
"David IGravesf, Harold, and Troy are going to play key roles in Notre Dame basketball f'or the future," MacLeod said. "They're not afraid and they trust their talent and they are looking for­ward to these games." 
Said Knight, "Notre Dame played with a Jot of young kids. I told John after the game that they are going to get better and better." 

The Observer/John Daily 
Antoni Wyche scored 11 points in Tuesday's overtime loss to Indiana. 
Weekend ~ __/Indoor ~'!?{-~occer Tournament 
frida)' & ~aturda)', December 4 & 5 6:00pm -Rolf~ ~port~ Recreation Center 

OPEN TO ALL NOTRE DAME STUDENTS ..
(i)
3 ON 3 PLUS GOALIE ONE DIVISION RINK IS WALLED AND NETTED 
REGISTER ATEAM Nr RECSPORTS ~-=\~
/ 1 
-
SIGN-UPS BEGIN MONDAY. 11/23 
DFADLINE IS WEDNESDAY. 12/2 
. i; LIMITED TO THE FIRST 12 TEAMS TO ENTER NO REFEREES WILL BE PROVIDED 
for ~ore Information Call Rec~porb al l-6IO0 


... 

page 14 Wednesday, December 2, 1998 

¦ BOXING 
Tyson in court to face assault charges 
Associated Press 
ROCKVILLE, Md. 
Mike Tyson pleaded no con­test Tuesday to misdemeanor assault, a decision that could return the former heavyweight champion to prison. 
Although the plea to the two counts is not an admission of guilt, Tyson faces up to 20 years in prison -10 years on each count -when he is sen­tenced early next year by a Maryland judge. He also could be fined up to $2,500 on each count. 
The charges stem from an 
Aug. 31 traffic accident in 
Montgomery County, Md., 
involving Tyson's wife, Monica. 
Tvson was accused of kicking 
and punching two motorists 
after the accident. 
"You understand that this 
plea could affect your parole," 
Judge Steven .Johnson told 
Tyson before accepting his plea. 
'Tm truly aware of that," said 
Tyson, who was released fr?m 
prison in 1995 after servmg 
three years of six-year sentence 
for a 1992 rape conviction in 
Indiana. 
Tyson, who is scheduled to 
fight Francois Botha on Jan. 16, 
would not discuss his case out­
side court. 
It will be up to Indiana 
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 

Hills earns Big East basketball honors 
Special to The Observer 

authorities to decide whether the no-contest pleas violated his probation. 
By late Tuesday afternoon, Marion County (Ind.) Superior Court Judge Patricia Gifford had not heard from probation oflicials about Tyson, her clerk, Becky Wagner, said. She said probation officials would decide whether to request a violation bearing for Tyson. 
George Walker, chief proba­
tion officer for Marion County, 
was out of the office until 
Wednesday. 
Tvson told Johnson he did not 
expect leniency or a lighter sen­
tence in return for entering the 
no-contest pleas. 
The prosecutor urged that jail 
time be included in the punish­
ment. 

"The statP opposes any pro­
bation before judgment," said 
Assistant State's Attorney Carol 
Crawford. 
Tyson's lawyer, Paul Kemp, 
said the plea was an appropri­
ate resolution to the case. 
"Mr. Tyson certainly concedes 
that things occurred that were 
inappropriate," Kemp said. 
Following the August acci­
dent, Abmielec Saucedo and 
Richard Hardick said Tyson 
attacked them. They have 
reached a settlement with 
Tyson to avoid a civil suit. 

presents 
0vangefium Vilae 
Study Group 
Hosted by Prof. Maura Ryan 
TONIGH1~ 
8:30 pm CSC Lounge 
A discussion ofthe Pope's encyclical, "The Gospel ofLife" 
Interested? Pick up a copy in the Right to Life Office, 314 Lafortune. 

Notre Dame freshman Sherisha Hills (Tampa, Fla.) has been named the co-Big East Rookie of thfl Weflk, after averaging 12.5 points and 3.5 rebounds in two wins last week as the Irish ~eat 25tl~­ranked Illinois (101-92) and San Francisco {74-43). The lnsh rookie shams the honor with freshman forward Tamika Williams of 
Connflcticut. 

Hills becomes the third Irish player in as many weeks to claim a Big East honor. Junior Niele Ivey and senior Danielle G~een gar­nered player-of-the-week honors in the first two weeks of the sea­
son. In the win against the Illini, hills came off the bench to score nine points, while adding four rebounds ~nd t~reo ass~sts. She scor~d a career-best and game-high 16 pomts Ill 29 mmutes of act10n, grabbed three rebounds and made four steals. In the two games, she shot 10-for-20 from the field. 

International Summer Research 
Research Grants . for Undergraduates 
Several grants are awarded each year by the Kellogg Institute for International Studies 
up to $3,000 
For more information, come to a meeting on Wednesday, December 2, 1998 at 5 :00 p.m. DeBartolo 118 
For further information, contact: Professor Michael Francis. 1-5203 (Hurley 110) 

:---------------------------------------------------------­-~ -··-----­pag~ 15 The Observer• TODAY Wednesday, December 2, 1998 · 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

.. 
-
.... 
----------~-------------------------------_...__________ 

PORTS 
O 
THF 

page 16 BSERVER 
¦ Basebal] player Albert Belle signs with the Baltimore Orioles. 
p.10 
¦ San Francisco 49ers' defensive anchor Bryant Young is out for the season. 
p.10 
Wednesday, December 2, 1998 

¦ MEN'S BASKETBALL 
Rallying Hoosiers need extra period to def eat Irish 

Darners rally but fall 
short in overtime, 76-72 
By JOEY CAVATO 
Associate Spom Editor 
The men's basketball team almost gave Irish fans an early Christmas present Tuesday night. 
But the Jovce Center isn't on 34th street 
A win ovflr Bobby Knight's 16th-ranked Hoosiers probably would have been too much to even expect from Santa. so Irish fans will have to be content with a 76-72 loss that provides a moral victory and a lot of hope aftor a dismal 2-4 start to the sea­
son. 
Senior guard Antoni Wyche drained three free throws with 1 :25 left on the clock to tic the game at 64 and Jimmy Dillon sent the game to ovr-rtime with a dri\'e clown the lane and a pretty underhand lay-up_ 
But the Irish {2-51 couldn't stop the Hoosiers (7-1) when they had to and could­nOt contain Luke Recker, who had 27 points. And though Troy Murphy taIJied 23 points and 16 rebounds, the offense failed to find him at the critical moments. 
"I thought Indiana really played well," Notre Dame coach John Macleod said. "They got the lead at the end and controlled the clock. I thought our kids battled their tails off." 
Notre Dame had its fair share of chances in the final seconds of overtime but Dillon couldn't produce the same magic he found in the end of regulation and Wyche and Martin lngelsby couldn't find the range on several three pointers that would have tied the game. The Hoosiers outscored the Irish 10-6 in overtime. 
"They really buckled down their defense in overtime and made it difficult for us to 
see GAME/ page 13 
Rasmussen completes 
ND all-transfer team 
ByJOEYCAVATO 
Associate Sports EJitor 
Monday afternoon, sophomore center Hans Rasmussen took the path of too many Notre Dame basketball players in rncent years. 
He walkod into the Joyce Centor, into hnad coach .John Mad,eod's ollicn, and told him of his decision to transfer_ 
This comes on the heels of a disastrous northern excursion where the Irish captured seventh place in the eight-team Great Alaska Shootout, edging out Southern Utah by four points. 
Hasmussen joins forwards Gary Bell and David Lalazarian and guards Keith Friel and Doug Gottlieb on the MacLnod all-transfor team that has formed in the last three-and­a-half years. 
Rasmussen, a native of' Portland, Ore., pointed to homesickness and decreasod playing time as the reasons for his depar­ture. 
"Honestly, I wasn't in a good situation here," Rasmussen told the South Bend Tribune. "Ono thing that was hard for me was being-2,000 miles away from my family. I just want to go home, take some time off and re-evaluate, everything in my life." 
Said MacLnod, who is becoming all-too­familiar with these speeches, bwe wish him the best. He's a great young man. We hope that everything works out for the best for him. 
"We don't want to see him transfer," MacLeod continued. "We're not holding him here hostage. He feels like he'll be better off elsewhere." 
Macleod has seen more players leave his 
see INSIGHT/ page 12 

J 


-
¦ WOMEN'S BASKETBALL 
Toledo next plate on Irish menu 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's basketball team, which has climbed to a No. 6 ranking in the Associated Press Poll. will look to continue its win­ning ways when it takes on non-conference oppo­nent Toledo tonight at the Joyce Center. 
The sixth ranking is the highest ever in school history and the team's 5-0 record also matches a school record. With wins over UCLA, Duke and Illinois, Notre Dame has moved up 11 spots since the preseason poll was released. 
"We're excited right now," guard Niele Ivey said. "We have to work hard each day and not worry about the rankings. Everyone is going to play us tough, so we have to go out there and play hard," 
Tonight's matchup with Toledo is the first contest of a three-game homestand that includes Big East opponents Villanova and top-ranked Connecticut. The Rockelq hold a 2-1 edge in the series with the Irish, but the two teams have not met since 1990, when Toledo defeated Notre Dame 70-69. 
Toledo brings a 3-2 record into the Joyce Center, after splitting two games at the Boston College Tournament last weekend. The Hockets dropped a close game to BC, 72-69, but followed it up with an 84-78 victory over St. Joseph's, The two other Toledo victories came over Xavier and Youngstown State. 
Kim Knuth leads the team, averaging 28.4 points-per-game. She was named the Mid­American Conference offensive player of the week. 
"They are going to be a tough team," Ivey said. "Knuth is a great player. She's a senior and they have a veteran team. They have a lot of weapons besides her and have a lot of confidence heading into the game. They have nothing to lose." 
Notre Dame's Sherisha Hills also earned all-con­ference honors, as she was named co-Big East freshman of the week. Hills averaged 12.5 points in Notre Dame's wins over Illinois and San Francisco last week. 
"She's playing great," Ivey said. "She's not ner­vous and is gaining· more and more confidence. She working hard and is getting better every game." 
Ivey finished with 22 points in the victory over the Illini. Center Ruth Riley added a double-double with 21 points and 12 boards. Captain Sheila McMillen had 20 points, en route to becoming the 14th Irish player to score her 1,000th career point. 
The lri-sh have won 14-straight home games, a streak dating back to the 1997 -98 regular season, and are averaging 94-7 points in their first three home games of this season. Notre Dame averages nearly 10 rebounds-per-game more than its oppo­nents, with Riley leading the way, averaging 9-2 per game. 
"Early on we weren't doing a good job rebound­ing and the coaches have been pounding defense and rebounding into our heads," Ivey said. "Our game is the transition game, so we have to crash the boards and get quick outlets." 
This will be the last warmup for the Irish before they start conference play with No. 1 UConn­
at Gator Bowl vs. Georgia vs. Central Michigan, 
Tech, Jan .l Saturday, 2 p.m.
SPORTS 
..,,

I 
ar Ohio State 

I 
\ ATA 
vs. Eastern Michigan ~ Friday, 7 p.m.
vs. Toledo, ..... at NCAA Tournament 
Today, 7 p.m. Friday, 5:30 p.m,

I GLANCE lI .. 
L__ ­





