-

Wednesday 
SEPTEMBER 
16, 1998 



The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 16 
• MULTICULTURAL BEAT 
Hispanic Heritage Month begins at SMC 
By EMILY PARKER 
News Writt·r 
YnslPrday nHtrkPd tlw bnginning of National llispanir llnrilage Month. and Saint Mary's Collngn was no I'X!'I'plion. rl'!nbralPd in slyln with the l'irsl-PvPr Annual lli,;panic l!nritagn Month. 
Tlw PV!'Ill, PntitiPd "1·:1 Crito dn Ia lndPpPIHIPIH'ia." -Spanish for "Cry for lndPpPIHIPni'P" -was sponsornd and dPsignnd by La Fu!'l'za. a Latina studt•nlorganization. It included din­Ill'!', folk da1H:ing and music. 
Tlw organization sponsors about SO JlPI'I'Pnt of till' I'VPnts this month. along with llw Ol'lirl' of Multit:ultural Affairs. 
Tlw purposp of llw Cry for lndPpPIHII'IH'Il cPinbralion is to mark tlw nunwrous Latin Anwrican inde­j)('lldnnrP days that orr.ur this month. Saint Mary's arlivities wern com­prisPd of' Mnxican folk danc:e, Chilean musir and Ni1~araguan poetry all pnr­fornwd by Saint Mary's students. 
StudPnls who are of llispanie back­ground are PXI'iled to display thnir rullun• and lwrilagP throughout tho month. 
"It is a wondPrful opportunity for stud1•nts to show pride in their cul­llll'<' and lnarn morn about other l!ispanic rulturns." said Maria Oropl't.a of tlw Ol'fico of Multicultural Affairs. 
Latino rulturl' is not just onn cui­tun·. but many dif'l'nn1nl cultures from many difl'nt'Pnl arnas, mixing tiH• barkgrounds of tlw selllnrs of Latin i\morir.a. surh as British, Spanish. l'ortugunsP and African. with till' pradicPs of the indignnous pPoplPs. 
"Tlw word II is pan it: iLs1ll f' means pPoph• of Spain. and throughout his­Lory was appliPd only to those with Spanish surnanws. including peopl11 in Mexir.o. the Caribbean, Guam and the Philippines. It couldn't be applied to the peoplo of Brazil. who speak Portuguese. 

"Latino is a term the people have ascribed to themsolves, really." 
Oropeza said. 

Due to the differences of the people and the cultures involved. the Office of Multicultural Affairs and La Fuerza have deeided on ovents that reflect that same diversity. 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Despite ruinor, Driver still plays for ND 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN News Writer 
Sophomore football playnr Tony Drivnr is back on campus. wondering what all tho fuss was about. 
Driver. a strong safety. conf1rnwd last night that he is still a Notre Dame student and a membnr of the football team. dnspitn ynstnr­day's reports to tho c~ontrary. 
"Tlwre was a lot of stuff on my mind. some stufl' I had to take care of at home." said Drivnr. "Football's fine. school's finn, I just needed to go home for a day." 
Driver left eampus Monday afternoon bdorn football practice, returning to stay overnight at his home in Louisville. Ky. 
Based on comments of some of his tllam­mates and his conspicuous absence from foot­ball praetice, The Observer reportnd yHsterday 'that he had left the University indel'inilnly. A few teammates said Driver left eithnr because he didn't like the coaches or because he had been switched from the tailbaek position to safety. 
When Driver returned to campus, he was surprised to learn that his status at the University was the focus of such attention. 
''I'm fine. I'm 100%." said Driver. ''I'm just a normal student who had things going on at home. but I guess my situation's a lot more open than other people's." 
He also said that he is happy with his situa­tion on the team. 
Driver is considered a key figure in tlw suc­cess of the Irish this season. Tlw 6-foot-2. 210­pound safety is a significant contributor to the Irish defense. making seven tackles in thn team's 45-23 Joss to Michigan Stat1\ last week­end. 
He appeared in all 13 games as a freshman. averaging 19.5 yards per kickoff return. One of six freshmen to earn a monogram. he also ear­ried the ball 35 times for 125 yards. 



Alcohol use raises concerns for SMC campus 
By NORA KULWICKI of Hesidenee Life. "Some students One rector at a male dorm News Writer In the past, were taken twice." clearly delineated Notre Notre Dame has she said. noting Dame's "real" policy. indicating Stnp onto a shuttle bus any bonn ranked as that one student that it is much looser than 
Friday night and r.hanens are ono of the top was hospitalized Saint Mary's alcohol rules.
SMC~Wedllesday your snns11s will bn dduged by bingo drinking twice within a two-"I know that !underage lhP sight. Stnl'll schools in the week period. drinking] does go on ... fresh­a n d s o 11 n d o f ~....,.P'!.~,.....1'1"!1~~.w._ nation. With such intoxi­men ean register a party with
Feature 
groomnd. por­
Considering the cating levnls of alcohol." said the rector. "!We 
• "Bing~
fumPd and social link between alcohol being con­arc] trying to help lknepl peo­
said that she planned to do
drinking srill a
(' h a l t I' r i n g 
the two schools, many Saint sumed. it seems that leaving ple in a eontrolled environ­
sonw, "heavy drinking."
problem.''
fpma!Ps. 
Mary's students cxperienee the the Saint Mary's campus might ment." Saint Mary's rngulations
An evening of alcohol is not
p.4 
Pl'!'ects o!' the score's implica­add to the danger. only allow for drinking behind
Most ar11 
uncommon for her as shr('said
IH•adPd to tions. Why then. do Saint Mary's dosed doors if all occupants of
she "parties four days a week."
Nolrn I> a nw to '----------' 
Mary DePauw. director of' students migrate so readily to the room are 21 years old or
This evidenee of "heavy
party and many of thnse counsnling and r.arenr devPlop­the cast side of the boundary over.
drinking" has preeedence.
WIJlllt'n plan to drink-!wavi­nwnl. said that she is. "very street? Sinen underagn drinking does
Orr spoke of some 1~ases in
ly. concerned that drinking is a 01111 obvious reason is that occur among Saint Mary's stu­
the past years that havn gotlPn
ThP tradition of' alcohol ron­problem at every collngn. underage drinking is mueh dents, some would think it
dangerously out of eontrol.
sumption that PXists on lhn inrluding ours ... iber.ausnl morn permissible at Notre safnr for them if tlw Colll'gP
"Students have been taken to
l>onH' sid1• of U.S. :~ l Sl'nms to lhl're is a high correlation Dame. loosnnl'd its drinking poli1:y.
the hospital with alarmingly
havP bPPn inlwrill'd by Saint bdwnnn alwhol abuse and sit­"We respond to what we are lloWIWilr, tlw consensus
high blood alcohol love is," she
Mary's \\'IJillPn. uations where women get aware of," said Jeff' Shoup. among studPnts SI'Pms to indi­
said. ~~iting cast~s whcn1 stu­
TIH• I'Uilurl' of lhn NotrP hurl." diroetor of Hnsidenee Life at cate that this is not lhPir
dnnls have tallied .300 blood
llanw/Sainl Marv's rommunit.v 01w student relying on tlw Notre Dame. "Thn rPclors are desire.
alcohol wntenl levPls. This is
doPsn'L makP (t l'asv to no.l shutlle bus for transportation responsibll' for enforcement
e.xtrnmely dangerous. consider­
drink. said Stllil' Orr.-dirPrtor to a dorm party al Notre Dame within the residr,nee halls."
ing that a .500 BAC is fatal. see SMC/ page 4 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Driver's Ed 
I've started to wonder a few things about the kind of people who accidentally open their car doors into the car parked next to 
them.  
Specifically,  I've  Sarah Dylag  
started  to  wonder  Scene Editor  
where they learned to  
drive.  

Correct me if I'm wrong, but last time I checked, if a driver parks a car so close to another car that it is impossible to comfort­ably get out of the vehicle without denting, scratching or otherwise damaging the other car, then the driver shouldn't park there. 
It is, I think, a pretty easy concept to understand. It has to do with respect for other drivers and their vehicles and it has to do with common sense. You wouldn't, after all, want to find a new scratch on your car and so you treat others as you would your­self, right? 
For some strange reason, however, the drivers who park at Turtle Creek Court don't seem to get it. Three times in the past month, I have walked out into the parking lot to discover a new dent or scratch on my car. 
The first time, I didn't get very upset. I decided that it probably happens to every­one at least once and I went out and bought a new bottle of touch-up paint. The second time, I yelled some choiee words, blamed it on the craziness of the Michigan weekend and pulled out the touch-up paint again. 
But this time, I'm a little less calm about the whole thing. When I found the new dent, I considered searching for the driver who had caused it so I could teach him or her how to properly park a car. I considered slamming my own car door a million times into the car parked next to me. And, for a brief moment, the scene from "Fried Green Tomatoes" came to mind -the one where she totals the car who steals her parking spot by driving her own car into it. 
After a few deep breaths, however, I returned to rational thinking and I decided to just give some general advice to all Turtle Creek Court drivers. 
First, if you cannot maneuver your car through the crowded parking lot, DO NOT PARK THERE. Park on the street or park in the other part of Turtle Creek, but don't try to squeeze into a parking spot. 
Second, if you park in a spot close to another car. take a minute to carefully make sure that you don't hit the car the next to you when you open the door. Even if you're in a hurry. It takes two seconds to think about someone other than yourself and two more to make sure you're careful with your car door. 
Third, if you absolutely cannot avoid doing damage, consider finding the driver of the car that you dent, scratch or damage. Although there is not much that can be done to fix a small scratch or dent, a simple apol­ogy can work wonders because when you sneak away without a word, you prove that you have no respect for anyone else. 
Everytime someone a car door is slammed into mine, I think of something Albert Camus wrote in his novel "The Plague." He said "Stupidity has a knack of getting its way." I guess stupid drivers get their way as well. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Emmett Malloy  
Tim Logan  Jenn Zatorski  
Chris Lawler  Graphics  
Sports  Mark Higgins  
M. Shannon Ryan  Production  
Viewpoint  Anrhony Bianco  
Eddie Llull  Lab Tech  
Monica Garza  
Wedn~sday4, 78 59 Thursday~ 78:62 Friday ~ 81 ... 61 Saturday ~r<81 62,


The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation period!>. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction righ[s are reserved. 
Wednesday, Seprember 16, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Bomb scare leads to evacuation of Vanderbilt residence hall 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. 

being asked to leave. A little after 4 p.m. on Thursday of 
"We were prepared for this

.... , 
because we talked about this type of Helms and Area Director Jason 
last week, Resident Adviser Richard 

VANDERBILT 
thing during AD training at the Jakubowski were rooting around in 
beginning of the year," said the ceiling tiles on the third floor of 
Jakubowski. Barnard Hall. Three hours later, the 
After Barnard was evacuated, the previously evacuated residents of the 
package was opened, and a black Vanderbilt-Barnard Quad were told evacuated the building and called alarm clock was found inside. Even that they could return to their rooms. YUPD, EMS and !SA," said so, the package was retained by The bomb squad had declared the Jakubowski. "And I was impressed by Metro police and taken to the crime area safe. how quickly all of the staff respond­lab downtown for processing, which Jakubowski had been alerted by ed." VUPD zone officers were the first includes lifting fingerprints from the 
the RA that there was a beeping to respond, who in turn alerted Metro box. noise in the hallway outside the police and the bomb squad. "This is a pretty sick joke," said third-floor bathroom of Barnard. As soon as Metro arrived, the area Dean of Residential and Judicial Once it was decided that the noise enclosed by the Admissions Office Affairs Brock Williams. Williams' was coming from the ceiling, they driveway, the Old Gym, Alumni Hall office has been conducting interviews 
pushed aside the tiles and found an and the Kirkland drive was blocked since the incident, as has VUPD. object foreign to the halls. A three­off with bright yellow police line tape, VUPD Detective Larry Reese has been by-five-inch box, wrapped in duct and the evacuated students were impressed with the way that students tape, was determined to be the herded toward Sarratt, a safe dis­have been coming forth with infor­source of the beeping. tance away. On the way, RA's mation, as well as with the candor 
"Just to be on the safe side, we informed residents of why they were with which they speak. 
• UNIVERSITY oF Cm.ORAOO 
Alumni protest exception to dry stadium 
BOULDER, Colo. 
The decision to keep alcohol flowing at the Flatirons Club has upset many alumni and students. On Thursday, the Board of Regents voted to support the Folsom Stadium ban on beer sales, but to still allow alcohol in the Flatirons Club, a clubhouse in the stadium that seats about 900 peo­ple. Anyone who can afford a $1,250 donation to athletic scholarships at CU can become a member of the Flatirons Club. "The alumni board overwhelmingly considered (the regents' decision) to be a double standard, hypocritical," said Kent Zimmerman, president of the Alumni Association, after the alumni board met Friday. One alum­nus even believed "it is non-American to have a ban that you can buy your way out of," Zimmerman said. Two years ago, the Alumni Association came out against the beer ban. At the alumni board meeting, they supported the continued ban by a slim majority vote of 15 to 12. But only three out of 27 felt it was fair to allow alcohol in the Flatirons Club. 
• MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY 
Frat house at center of lawsuit 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
Two East Lansing housing commissioners are suing the city and its housing director after months of conflict over a controversial decision involving an MSU fraternity. The law­suit, which is being brought by commissioners Bill Ramirez­Roberts and Marilyn Fine, stems from the city's decision not to forward a case to the Commission on Housing that involved the Phi Delta Theta fraternity house's possible vio­lations to city restrictions. The commissioners petitioned Friday for a court order that would allow the commission to act on the case. Howard Asch, the official being sued, said the information on the December police report wasn't com­plete enough to justify bringing the case to the commission. "It was not a good, clear case and it is not something we could handle," said Asch, the city's director of housing and code enforcement andneighborhood conservation. "We had no documentation that alcohol wasconsumed on the proper­ty." 
• UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH 
Employee caught in student 10 scam 
PITTSBURGH, Penn. 

Pitt officials have confirmed that they reprimanded a Copy Cat employee who was caught creating a fraudulent Pitt ID for another University employee. Neither employee was charged criminally because there was no evidence of an exchange of money, according to Pitt spokesman Ken Service."It is not against the law to duplicate a Pitt lD," Service said. "It was a clear violation of University policy to duplicate the lD card, though." Both employees were reprimanded through University channels, Service said. The University employee allegedly asked the Copy Cat employee working in the Scaife Hall branch to duplicate the lD as a joke for a friend, Service said. The Copy Cat worker allegedly scanned the employee's card using a two-color copier at the store. Service said there was no evidence that the card was intended for use in any fraudu­lent manner. He declined to say how the University found out about the fake ID or to release the names of the two employees involved. 
• RUTGERS UNIVERSITY 
Student group leads nationwide protest 
NEW BRUNSWICK, N.J. 

The Student Action Union began a nationwide campaign last week to protest Guess, which the University group claims utilizes sweatshops to manufacture its clothing. The group began handing out fliers Friday alleging Guess has a history of subcontracting to companies which underpay and overwork their employees. Rutgers College senior Arsenia Reilly, member of the SAU, said the group is one of 50 nationwide which will be asking students on their respective campuses to boycott Guess. Schools that have groups advocating the boycott include llarvard, Cornell, Georgetown and New York Universities. "What we're try­ing to do is spread some awareness about this," said Heilly of the SAU, which is a member of United Students against Sweatshops Coalition. "We want people to know about the sweatshops Guess had two years ago. Ever since they got some bad press about that last year they moved those plants to Mexico." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER S Day South Bend Forecast 

fr Wed1esdars te11perarures
AccuWeather"torecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H L 
( 
Sund"-y -~ /9,, 74 SZ.. 
( ...·}.l~j ...............,( '":,;"' 
\ 

Albany 75 52 Fargo 81 58 Richmond 85 63 Alfaretta 85 70 Miami 91 80 San Jose 77 54 Billings 80 48 Milwaukee 75 61 St. Paul 78 59
Q,Q,Qq~Q (f ~ u 

Boston 74 56 Nashville 87 66 Seattle 64 47
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 

Detroit 78 60 Phoenix 104 78 Trenton 83 61
Via Assoc1ated Press GraDhicsNet 



----------------------~-------------~~~-------------­
page 3 
' 



omens 
ews
Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
Challenging year for Miss America 
1998 

By JESSK.A DELGADO 
Nrv,.s Writer 
A $40.000 sdwlarship, a .rhinestone tiara and a year full of promoting AWS awamn«"ss wen1 1\ah~ Shindln's priZ(IS l'or winning tho Miss Amnrku pagt:Htnt last y1-1ar. 
A 20 year-old sfltlillr at Northwestern Univc>rsity, Shindle's roots aro in Illinois. Winning tlw 199.7 :Vtiss Illinois title qualified her to rcp­n·sent her home state in the national pagoant. 
F.ach YP-i~r, Miss Amerie~t must dwosn a social issue to work on. Shindl11 dwse to ondorse rontrovorsial Ali)S prtWNJtion tntlls stwh as ~~(~ndom distribution in schools and providing clt\an nocdles to drug addicts. 
by hm· own admission, Shindle chose a tough road to travel. "Tlwre ure still many, many G()nlnnl;; 
nitit1s tnking what r---=:----. thfly td'f'fH~tlonatnly rnfur to as baby stt)pS toward IIIV prevcn· lion when they should be taking giant leaps," sh(\ said. 
But local anti state srhool hoards put rostrit:t.ions on thu VIH'abulary Shlndh~ t.an usnln hM )}re; st~ntations. making it comp!Jcat~d for her to disseminate all the irlformtttion. During her visit to South Carolina,. Shindle had to give a talk withoutthe using the words condoms, needles; ht~lt,rosuxual, lwmosexuul, gay w1d straight. 
"OthM than that I t:ould say whntn¥~ er I want()d about IIIV proVthH.irilt,. sh{) said. 
In her personal life,• Shindle de.v~h oped a height(med awareness ofA:tDS whon h(1r thent(ll' professurtn c()U~g(~ dit~d of' the diseast\+ The issU~ hikhorith doubly hard when dortots dJagi19~~d a family friond with IIIV/ sh~ ~~i4.;i ::):: 
"The epidemic sort ot'. (phk on· it 
human face. and the w~n· C>t;l A.tQ9 became my personal crusadc~Shindlc said. ·:· ...·<::: ..: 
As part of her serviCe iitit:i~Hv~~ Shindltl has become the spokesw&trtari for "Make A Differenc~ pijy;;r 1::hl$ nvnnl is hnld a;rlinlttlly 110 ih!t fiiUFth Saturday of' October to rJ)epgniz&~~g encourage thos~ who help othef§Ji'hl~ program is sponsored by The Points of Light Foundation, and hasth~silpport of CivicSource, a national resource organi:mtion fvr civil: f(~~tders]lip. > 
"As Mis~ AtMrkl\, I hope tiJ brlrig ttl 1wlinn and nncoumge othnrs t~tjoitt mn. out· statt\ and our local title l:ltild~ MS by wot•king together to t'lnd po\V(lt• rut solutions to specific problems/in thoil· communities." she said. ··· 
Shindle 

BEAUTY PAGEANTS 

Campus royalty living among us 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE NewsWrirer 

Collnge studnnt Brie Strohnwyer rmnemlwrs what it was like to haw a littlo girl's dn~am. 
"I remombor watching the Miss Amorica pageant whnn I was sevPn and looking at that pretty girl with a crown on her lwad and thinking. 'I want to be that girl,"' siH1 said. 
Strohnwyer. now a pagnant eontestant hersnll'. was not alotw. This W!H)kend, whnn the Anwrican public· turns its atlfm­tion to the 71\th Miss Anwrir.a pagPant. 52 contostants will com­(H~tt\ to n~alize their own childhood dream. 
WhiiP tlw pagnant culminatns months of training in thn dramat­ic compntition of tal­ent. however, poisn, lwauty and intnlled, liH~ contestants will also stir up a familiar question for followers of the pageant: Are pageants degrading to wonwn" 
For l.aura llaigwood, 

(:oordinator of thn womens studies pro-www.mi..illinoi<hlkm gram at Saint Mary's Five finalists remain on stage at the 1997 Miss Illinois pageant. Katherine Shindle (center) 
Collegt), it is a major went on ro win rhe tide of Miss America 1998. concern. "The emphasis on beauty, display, and the kinds of beauty that are striv1m for in pageants are problematic," she said. "Like most feminists. I would prefer if the emphasis was just on the intnllnetual eapabilitios of womnn." Erin Kenton, a Saint Mary's student and pageant contestant, agrend. Kenton, who bngan competing on a local level, won lwr town pageant to bneome Miss Mel hmry in McHenry, Ill., and went on to compete on the county lnvel in 1997. "Pageants do need to be morn open to pnople ol' diffnrent sizes, colors. and beliefs," she said. "Their focus should bn on the whole pnrson. In a lot of pagnants. prerequisites are more 

History of the coveted crown 
By LISA MAXBAUER that each contestant should wear a become an important part of tiH' Miss Women's News Et!iror swimsuit. Amm·iea competition. Tho first scholar­Besides the celebration of beauty, the ship was given in 1945 to Bess My!)rson 
Three gennrations ago, this democra-initial Miss America contest served an in the amount of $5,000. Today's winner cy placed a crown on top of a woman's economic function. As a symbol for the receives over $40,000 in educational head. The obtrusive crown accompanied beautiful summer weather, excitement grants. onn simple duty: to embody the image of surrounding the naming of a queen Throughout Miss America's long histo­America's "bathing beauty." extended the summer tourist season one ry, 71 women have earned their rights to 
Margaret Gorman, the first woman to week beyond Labor Day. the crown. Mary CampbPI! of Ohio is the wear the crown of Miss America, could Over the next 78 years, the purpose of only woman to be crownnd for two con-not envision the legacy she would secutive years, a practice now pro-leave. Today, the crown appears r--------------------------------, hibited by pageant restrictions. smaller, but the title of Miss States With Most Miss America Wins The contest also lapsed during 
America has grown immensely to Call"+orni·a years of war and international cri­
6 

eneompass a modern social 1' sis. responsibility. Ohio The job requiremonts ol' thn
6 

The term pageantry bears a rich 
historical tradition originating in England is the 15th century. It eon­sisted of dramatic outdoor prnsen­
lations ePiebrating the life of par­ticular communities. 
The idea of American pageantry, hownver, was conceived in 1921 in New Jersey. The 1920s were the ag() where awards such as the Grammy and the Oscar were being instituted in the world of entertainment. So a group of individuals in Atlantic City set out to award a prizn on the merit of beauty. 
Writer Hichard Corliss described the typical pagnant contestant in the early years as "a prom queen who wants to become the Statun of Liberty." 
Tlw 1920's also featured Atlantic City as the preminn) seaport ol' the East Coast. Since outward appearance would be the main criteria of judgment, the founders of Miss America concluded 
quenn have movnd dramatically
5 Pennsylvania away from the realm or frivolous 
Illinois Michigan
Mississippi" Oklahoma 
the Miss America title would extend beyond its boundarins and be redefined. 
In 1935, a talent competition was implemented into the contest activities. This additional requirement forced women to provcJ their well-roundedness in society. Women vying for the crown today must also participate in two weeks worth of activities for the pageant, including an evening dress and inter­view portion featured during the culmi­nating television event. 
Educational rewards have also 
focused on outward appearancn, and that nnmls to bn cut out." Yet Kenton, like otlwr pagnant cont!~stants, defends pagnants' valun rngardlnss of th() criticism tlwy haVI) rncPivnd. 
"It's not all bPauty and no brains," slw said. ".Judgns today arn looking for rnpresnntativns of what youth aspires to hP. A lot of peopl1~ think that il' you'rn not six fent and 120 pounds, you 1:an't win. That is not reality, and judg<)S nwliw that." 
"People who think this is all beauty and no brains arn not 
Blueberry 1997, discussed the challnnge of answering heated questions on the spot. 
"People think that the questions that am asked are silly. like, 'If you had a million dollars, what would you do?' ThPy're not like that," she said. "Once I was asked, 'If you wm·e a criminal lawyer defending an accused rapist of thme young girls, and he admitted to you that he committed tlw crime, could you still del't~nd him?" 
"That was tough," she said. "From a moral point, I couldn't defend him. But since it was my duty to the bar, I would have 
see ROYALTY/ page 8 

entertainmnnt to facilitate morn community involvement. Since 1989, contestants must 
preparn a "platform" on issuPs ranging from education and hnalth to povnrty and injustice. Tlw win­ner bPcomns a spoknswoman l'or lwr snleetml cause and uses lwr influence to bring about national 
awareness. 

Due to her public appearances to com­munities nationwide, today's Miss America must maintain a challnnging seheduln. ller itinerary requirns her to travel over 20,000 miles a month, rarely staying in ono placn for more than two days. 
The Miss America Organization presently operates as a not-l'or-prolit corporation year round. Its mission is to 
see CROWN I page 8 
watching dosPly." said Strohnwynr, who was nanwd Miss Kansas America Teen in llJI)7. "That is totally inan:u­rate. The girls I know who are involvPd in pagoants arn some of th1~ l'astnst. prPcise, and aecurall! thinkPrs that I havo fWPr nwt. The judges expPct you to be abln to give logi­cal, factually basPd answers. lnll)lligt)IH:n is definitely empha­sized." 
Pageant c.ontnstants argue that the inter­view process is onP of the aspeets of the eo m petition that take it beyond just a com­
petition  of  beauty.  
Freshman,  )folly  
James,  Miss  Georgia  







'~-----------~·---------~--~-­
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 16, 1998 

Binge drinking still a problem, study shows 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
News Writer 
Despite an increase in the number of students who choose to abstain from alcohol. bing~ drinking continues to be a prob­lr.m on American coll~ge cam­puses. a recent study from the llarvard School of Public Health reported. 
The survey compared responses from 1993 and 1997 college students and their feel­ings about drinking. In the report. binge drinking is defined as four drinks in a row for women and five in a row for men. a drink being a 12-oz. beer. a 4-oz. glass of wine, or a 1.25-oz. shot of liquor. 
One of the most surprising linds was the one-third increase in the number of students who deliberately "drink to get drunk." 
There was no significant decrease in binge drinking dur­ing the four-year break. In 1997,42.7 percent of those polled reported being binge drinkers, compared to 44.1 per­cent in 1993. 
"Despite highly publicized tragedies and continuing exami­nations of college alcohol poli­cies, the data indicate that, at the national level thus far, the extent and nature of binge drinking has not changed," said Henry Wechsler. who led the 
SMC 
continued from page 1 
The student who parties four times a week spoke for many when she said, "I do it but I like Saint Mary's being more controlled. I feel safer [here. I I have the option not to drink." 
A place where women can feel protected from the effects and influence of alcohol may be more valuable then ever. 
Judy Kenney, director of health services. said that she has seen the consequences of alcohol use. including. "stu­dents concerned about a sexu­al situation." 
She said that Saint Mary's women have been given date rape drugs such as Rohypnol (Hoo!ies). 
Kenney also expressed con­cern about the fact that there are "recipes" on the internet instructing people how to make "home brews" of sub­stances that will work the same as roofies. 
Alcohol education is espe-
International StudyPrograms 
Study at the American University in Cairo 
(Instruction is in English) 
investigation for the Harvard study. "In fact. there has been an intensification of severe drinking behavior among drinkers." 
Some students on Notre Dame's campus expressed views on college drinking similar to Wechsler. 
''I'm not surprised by the number of binge drinkers here. It is the American tradition," said freshman Bob Forgash. "It's what is expected at col­lege." 
One key factor in the results was the presence of fraternities and sororities, institutions which Notre Dame does not maintain. 
"Fraternity and sorority mem­bers. and especially students who live in the houses, continue to be at the center of the cam­pus alcohol culture," Wechsler said. 
Other students feel differently, as can be observed in the increased number of those who choose not to drink. In 1993, only 15.6 percent of those who responded to the survey abstained, while in 1997, 19 percent made the choice not to drink. 
Sophomore Betsy Cavo explained why she chooses to abstain from alcohol: "I never really got into drinking during high school, and I like making sure that everyone gets home safely." 
cially pertinent to Saint Mary's women, considering that women react differently to alcohol than men. Not only are women vulnerable to date rape drugs but their metabolisms may also dictate their limits. 
DePauw warned that taking an over-the-counter drug like Ibuprofen or being premen­strual will elevate the effects of alc"ohol. If the drug is ingested during premenstruation, one drink for a woman can be equivalent to eight or 10 in a normal situation (depending on body weight). 
"Students [sometimes] say. 'I don't know what happened,' " said DePauw. 
There is no indication that this problem will be imminent­ly resolved, but the key to safer alcohol use by women seems to lie in education as well as cau­tion. 
"When you're in a social situ­ation. you have to constantly keep it in your mind,'' Kenney said. "I don't want to sound like cvrryonr should be para­noid, but they should be edu­cated." 

Information Meeting for Spring 1999, Fall 1999 and Spring 2000 
Wednesday, September 16, 1998 4:30PM, 149 DeBartolo 
All Undergraduate Students are Welcome! 

~--------------------------~--.... ---~---~---·--·----··-~-·c.-: ...:..: 


Prof: problems in Asia not new 
By MAGGY TINUCCI News Writer 
Unstable economiC conditions in Southeast Asia. combined with crises in politics and real estate, is a primary reason for the recent financial turmoil in that area of the world. that could have been anticipated by examining further a comparable incident in Mexico in 1994, according to Ilene Grabel. a vis­iting professor at the Kellogg Institute. 
In May 1997, Thailand was experiencing a political and con­stitutional crisis at about the same time as a change in investor sentiment was emerg­ing in the United States. These factors combined to cause investors to turn away from the forming markets in Asia. Grabel said: "The bubble in Thailand was about to collapse." 

Investors began to pull out of stock and currency markets at that time. A significant reason for this was that the dollar began to appreciate relative to the yen. which served to under­mine the export industry within lien~ Grabel! a v_isiting professor, delivered a lecture regarding eco­


r"I!D!)at 631-5323 
·"·''~···· ·. 

Make A Career Out of Spending . Other People's-· Money. 
Please join us for an 
information session: 
Wednesday, September 16 Notre Dame Room, Morris Inn 6:00 -8:00 pm 
Sponsored by Notre Dame Career &Placement 
MEDIA... It is what takes ideas from the conceptual and production stage, to our living rooms, malls, bars, and the broad outdoors. At Starcom, we make MEDIA our business. Because what is an idea if it hasn't anyplace to go? 
.... * •* 
* * 

STARCOM MEDIA SERVICES 
would institute an 
Americanization of economies 
and nco-liberalization reforms. 
This caused external influence 
in decision-making and a vul­
nerability to future crisis was 
exacerbated, Grabel said. 
•.·.•.·. 




? caII 
Southeast Asia. 
In addition, most countries were repaying loans to the United States on the dollar, so a rise in the value of the dollar made it more expensive to repay those loans. 
"A further round of decline led to the cumulative downward nomic cond1t1ons 1n Southeast Asia. 

spiral of economics," said Grabel. 
Several countries approached the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for assistance and were granted aid with the stipu­lations that their governments 
·'i?iVt'liWHl•i•·.; 


• 
Mexicans remain without aid 
IIUIXTI.i\, MEXICO 

Thous<lllth of flood victims rf'mainf'd 
without l'oud and lllPdir.iru~ on Ttu•sday, live 
days af'll'l' rivPrs waslwd away hom•~s. t:rops 
and many ol' tlwir nPighhors. Cloudy weath­
c•r on Tt11•sday prPvt•nll~d aid !'lights from 
n·al'hing many an~as in tlw ravagod coastal 
n•gion ol' soutlwrn 1\'lnxiro. In thl' n•nwte vii­
lag•• ol' VadPmia, olll' ol' thousands ol' snttlo­
nwnts hlastl'd hv tlw floods, farmnr Hamon 
(;ulii'ITI'Z his i\•1'1 swolll'n from inl'nction 
was angry. "Till' aid that l'n~sidnnt l•:rnesto 
ZPdillo oiTPrPd by tPicwision still has not 
arriwd and WI' ;(rl' surP it. will not arrive~ 
IH·•·ausp WI' arl' from thP PHI>," lw said, 
rI' I'P ,.,. i n g to t h f' opp o s it i on J) em oc: rati e 
llPvolutionary !'arty. 
Alabama mourns Wallace 
MONTCOMEHY 

Thousands of black and white 
Alabamians on Tuesday lilod past the open 
rasknt of formor (;ov. Goorge Wallaeo at the 
Civil War-era Capitol whero he oneo 
vowPd. "Segregation now, segregation 
tomorrow, se~gregation foreve~r!" "I loved 
c;ovornor Wallace," said Karen Lott. a white 
woman from Birmingham who was one of 
thP mourners filing through the Capitol 
whem~ Joll'nrson Davis was sworn in as pres­
ident of tho Confederacy in 18CJ1. "I believed 
in what lw stood for honesty, decency, and 
1111 didn't bdicwn in drinking. lin had family 
valuns." Malia Hagan. a white woman and 
onP of many statn workers filing through the 
rotunda, said: "It's a real sad day. I think it's 
thn nnd of an nra." 
Cuban spies may be responsible for four deaths 
MIAMI 

A man chargPd with spying for tho Cuban govnrnnwnt bl'canw friendly with Cuban I'Xiles and could have passnd along informa­tion that lnd to tlw deaths of four people aboard two unarmed American civilian planes, an exile1 lnader said Tuesday. Herw Gonzalez was among 10 people~ ehargnd Monday in what prosecutors called tlw largnst Cuban spy ring uncovered in tlw Unit1~d States since Fidel Castro eame to powN in I fJ:i<J. Brothers to the Hescue had two planes shot down over international waters on Fob. 24. I91J(J. The group's lemdPr, .Jose Basulto. said he thinks Gonzalez could havn giwn Cuba information that led to tlw shootdown. Basulto did not elaboratn on what kind of information Gonzalez eould have rnvealnd to Cuba before its MiG lightnr downed the planes. 

Composite Volume: 
718,932,108

+79.04 
MOST TRADED STOCKS 
I"Uldl!~f:ll:i Ill'liliES 'liii'U&tlliil· lll&ltll I!Birl 
MCI Wurlll<:nm WCOM ·4.71 -2.25 45.5 'lt•!J.,Jia TI.AII +9A.'i. +J.5625 41.25 HIM Nahl\4.:n KN +HI.6K +2.562.1 2b.Sb25 I lei I l>f.(.(. _l..lK +.H125 59.K75 H:um COMS +lUAK +2.K750 30.3125 l.uu·nt lcchnnluJ.:Ic' l.tJ .J.09 -2.3750 74.5 Clllliruup-AIHI l:IITSY ·22.74 -9.1250 :ll Chc,:u Sy~h·tm <:!'iC<.l +:1.14 +2.9:i75 96,625 lt'll'luol\ Allfl TRR +23.29 + t:\.6250 72.125 Mlumoll MSH +2.1M +2.3125 108.3125 
COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• ~-,.ASiilNGTON 


ASSOCIATED PnESS 

WASHINGTON 
The White House braced Tuesday for release of dam­aging new evidence as House Hepublicans pushed to make public a videotape of President Clinton's grand jury testimony, said to show a chief executive uncomfort­ably answering pointed questions about sex. 
Lawyers familiar with the testimony, speaking on con­dition of anonymity, said the videotape shows the president at times angry with graphic questioning from lawyers in indepen­dent counsel Kenneth Starr's office. At one point, these sources said, Clinton accused prosecutors of eriminalizing his private life. 
These lawyers offered a description of the videotape as the White House labored to shore of Clinton's stand­ing among congressional Democrats, and as Hepublieans brushed aside Democratic talk of a mere censure of the president. 
Censure is "not an option that holds a lot of attrac­' tion," House Majority Leader Dick Armey of Texas told reporters, saying he had talked to rank-and-file House members about the 
issue. 
"We believe that commit­ting perjury and obstruction of justice, these are feats of enormous consequence." 
Clinton testified at the White House by closed cir­cuit before the grand jury on Aug. 17. The videotape shows the president appear­ing to be caught off guard by questions a few times and struggles uncomfort­ably to answer, the lawyers said. And many times when pressed to give more details, Clinton refers back to the legalistic statement his lawyers prepared to answer questions about the sexual nature of his relationship with former intern Monica Lewinsky. 
Laboring to make public as much of Starr's evidence as possible, House Hepublicans want the video­tape released as early as this week. Democrats are objecting, saying Clinton is being treated unfairly because no other witness' testimony was taped. 
"We just hope that it's not misused," presidential spokesman Mike MeCurry said Tuesday. Other Democrats said they feared the use of unflattering images in campaign com­mercials. 

The videotape would like­ly be played and niplayed by stations around the country if released. Clinton's defend­ers fretted that the images of the president. sometimes angry and defi­ant and at other times split­ting legal hairs, would be at odds with his attempts in recent days to express con­trition and sorrow over his relationship with Monica Lewinsky. 
The behind-the-scenes struggle between the two parties over the videotape came as Hepublican leaders brushed aside Democratic talk of mere censure of the president at least for the time being. 
While i\rmey fielded ques­tions about censure on one side of the Capitol, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott addressed the issue on the other. He told reporters it was "inappropriate at this time to be talking about what might happen" to Clinton. 
Neither Lott, {H-Miss), nor Armey closed the door on the idea of a sanction less than impeachment in the 
end  and  neither  did  
McCurry.  
Asked  about  calls  for  

Clinton to reimburse some of the costs Starr has 
incurred said to be some $4.4 million investigating the Lewinsky cover-up alle­gations McCurry said, "if there's a serious effort made in Congress to that, we'll consider it when the time comes." 
The issue pervaded the closed-door Hepublican Senate caucus during the day, as sources said sena­tors had a discussion about the importance political and legal of avoiding the appearance of prejudging the case. 
Several sources, speaking on condition of anonymity, said that was intended to discourage Sen. Orrin Hatch, ( R-Utah). from repeating comments he made over the weekend speculating that censure or some other lesser punish­ment might be the outcome of the controversy. 
At the same time, the White Ilouse moved to pre­vent further erosion in Clinton's political standing among Democrats. Chief of staff Erskine Bowles and a phalanx of aides journeyed to the Capitol to join the weekly closed-door Democratic Senate caucus for a discussion of Starr's report, and later met with top House Democral'i. 

Russia proposes financial solutions 
AssoCIATED PRESS 
MOSCOW 

Russia's new government showed some of its cards Tuesday, proposing to print money to pay back wages and impose some Soviet-style controls over the market but also making a key appointment to enhance its reform credentials. . . . . .· ,, 
member of his faction to be named to a Cabinet post later. 
Shokhin served as Russia's econom­ics minister at the start of the country's free-market reforms. He has promised that Russia's policies will be based on "fundamental market-econo­myprincipl6s;'; 
Russian liberals and media have been making dooll1sday predictions 
The head of the centrist Our Home twtha.tthe new government, under Is Russia party. Alexander Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov, will Shokhin, was named d~puty prime represent a. retreat to,,.~oviet•era minister in charge of financial economic pQli~es; .x~~t issues a daunting job as Russia tries Primakov, who conferred with to pull .. H~elf ol.!~;pfit~ .,.l-'oJ! · lt~ffi.,Ofh:.new morass~ He said hif expected an ~~day~ 'ftisigts·. 
he is only trying to create a team that represents all the major political and economic factions, including the Communist Party. 
The prime minister also met with an International Monetary Fund delegation on Tuesday. He later issued a statement saying the Russian side was committed to "mar· ket reforms, but pointed out the need for some changes in the ways of their im plementatlon to ensure sustainable economic growth and to take into account all the social aspects of the reforms," accor:dlng to the ITAR-Tass news . , 




Procter & Gamble 
presents 
Leadership Opportunity Advancement 

featuring 
Clayt Daley Chief Financial Officer 
where -when jordan Auditorium (College of Business 
Building) Wednesday September 16 7:00p.m. 
. I, 

Discuss career opportunities with P & G representatives from: 
•Finance & Accounting 
•Management Systems 
•Brand Management 
•Product Supply 
Reception to follow in the Atrium outside of the Jordan Auditoriu1n. 
Wednesday, September 16, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 

BOG will co-sponsor ''Cafe Con Leche'' 
By ERIN GIBBONS News Writer 
Diversity and education were the the issues covered at last night's Board of Governance meeting, as well as a co-spon­sorship with l.aAiianza and the approval of the SMC/ND Advertising Club. 
LaAiianza is co-sponsoring a "Cafe Con Leche'' with BOG. llimilce Novas, a well-known author and speaker, will give a speech to colebrate Hispanic Heritage Month. "Cafe Con Leche" will be held on Sept. 22 at 7 p.m. Dalloway's Coffee House. 
During the evening. there will be an opportunity for Saint Mary's, Notre Damo and Washington High School stu­dents to rPad poetry and short stories. Novas will spoak for 45 minutes, and then students will have a chance to ask questions and discuss issues that arose from the lecture. 
Aliu Hawkins, the student 
*****
-Morningstar ratings for the CREF Global Equities Account, CREF Equity Index Account, and CREF Growth Account• 
who drafted the propsal to ask BOG to co-sponsor this event is "enthusiastic and excited" to have Novas to help celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month. 
"She will bring attention to multicultural and diverstiy issues that need addressing in this community," Hawkins said. 
BOG also granted club status to the Saint Mary's College/Notre Dame Advertising club. The club will hold its first meeting today. It will be affliated with the Academic Divisions of the American Advertising Federation. This is the first such club that has gained offi­cial recognition from the BOG that specifically addresses advertising. 
"The Saint Mary's Ad Club will offer students the chance to develop their knowledge and expierience of' advertising which will definately help them get thier foot in the door," said Christie Bangasser, president of the dub. 


Career workshops start tonight 
By SARAH MAGNESS NewsWricer 
The countdown to graduation is on and Saint Mary's seniors are preparing for the Senior Career Kickoff. 
The Kickoff is designed to inform and prepare seniors who may be experiencing anxi­ety about their futures. 
"You really need to start early. The workshop is option­al, but mandatory for success," said Susan Simmerman, assis­tant director for career devel­opment. 
The workshop will help both students who are considering graduate school and those who plan to seek employment immediately after graduation. 
"What kinds of jobs do I want?" and "How do I get them?" will be questions posed to those in attendance. 
Simmerman's lecture will tackle specific details of resume writing, interviewing and job and graduate school search skills. 
Simmerman plans on hosting 
additional workshops which 
will solely be devoted to each 
one or these topics. 
Seniors should be optimistic 
'PREPARATION IS fl.JNDA­
MENTAL IN MARKET­

ING YOURSELF AND BEING 
READY FOR THE JOB MAR­
KET.' 
SUSAN SIMMERMAN 

regarding their options after 
graduation, Simmerman said. 
Twenty-two companies plan to 
visit Saint Mary's this fall for 
interviews. 
Because of a very good job 
market right now, 28 percent 
more jobs will be available to 
the class of 1999, Simmerman 
estimated. 
"I Life after graduation! is a 
test when it comes down to it 
and students need to prepare," 
she said. "Preparation is fun-
Got News? Call The Observer at 631-5323 

"•••Americas 
Top Pension Fund." 
-MoneyMagazine, January 1998 

IDGH MARI<S FROM MORNINGSTAR, S&P, MOODY'S, MONEY MAGAZINE AND BILL. 
"'{"1 Te take a lot of pride in gaining high marks 
V V from the maior rating services. But the fact 

is, we're equally proud of the ratings we get every 
Jay from our participants. Because at TIAA-CREF, 
ensuring the financial futures of the education and 
research community is something that goes beyond 
stars and numbers. 
We became the world's largest retirement orga­

nization' hy offering people a wide range ofsound 
investments, a commitment to superior service, and 

Ensuring the future for those who shape it.w 
operating expenses that are among the lowest in the insurance and mutual fund industries."' 
With TIAA-CREF, you'II get the right choices­and the dedication-to help you achieve a lifetime of financial goals. The leading experts agree. So does Bill. 
Find out how TIAA-CREF can help you build a comfortable, financially secure tomorrow. Visit our Web site at wWW.tiaa-cref.org or call us at I 800 842-2776. 
• \ttUf\l' ~''"''l''ll''·u, l•k..,lul\· .11, IWH ~l••rlllllt!"'.lll' ,an ukkp:mkrll ••o:n·•<~·lh.ll rJIC\ rmuu.ll fund' JJUJ \JnJl-k: JllUUIIM:\ _l"hc II'J' IIJ'l(. ••lli11uh 111 .UIIIlw~t\1\l'lll •Jil'}!''"'.'l'U.'I\C ti,,· \I.If\ JnJ lhl'lll'\1 22 ~'\. 1'\'''''''' lttur ''"'' M•.rnlt'll''\1.11 l'fnJWN.'I,U~ roalllltlo' rdln'lluMunLJI n"-J•hll\lt.'J l"''rlttrlll.lll•l' Jlhllll' ..uhpnll•••hJII}ll' l''l'n·nutnlh rhc\ ~h'..:JkuiJI,'\t l~um1111.• ·'''''um·, linn· ,lwt· ,.mJ h'n·\·c.ar .1\"\'IJ}I.l' JllllU:d hlllrll' m t'hn•ul YCI llol\ lru•lll\ h1ll n'lllfll\ "'-llh Jj'l''"l ,1,·h' fl'l' Jdjll,lllii'IU\, .11111 J n'k tJ~-tnr thJI r~llnh l'nli•rnlJno:~ ""-''•'"·YII .Jo~\· I t..ll r~IUIIl<o llu: ti\Cr~ll 'tJr rJ111lit•rdt•rrn.llnJt>.•H' Jrt· Mnnlllli(~IJI 'pui-4••1"'·.J r,Umt:•. \\ tu~h Jn' \\t'l~hh·,l Jt~u~n .,flhthrn , fl., , Jlk.ltt·n·t~Jt utn•tt• lior '""""''' ,·nt.lin~ Jul•· .ll. IY')K. llll· "'.'JlJUI~ 1 ml)'!.!llh•lk·.Jt rJIIIl}:' lnr co~d1uf tht• )'ll.'nud• Jl"\" 
CJJIF SIGC"~ Accmaol  CJ.Jif Glohal Ecplrin Accou.ot  CJ.EF S,.Uty Jndn Acrounl  CUF Growth A«-nl  CJ.EF Bond Marlin Anoaa1  CJ.EF Serial Chain Accownl  
'WitJttnt:,  \ur IUHn~  ~IJIItJitll!t/  \w R.iHn~ ·  St.11 ll.ttlll~'  !\IJIIl,lllllt=-•  
....:uml,.·•utllo•mt·••lt loJtlll\  Sumhn ttllmcrn~llotnJI ~ •\11111  Smnt...·lufll•"l'C'It•I•JUIII  Sumh.."t ••ll"tollll~\llt'l ojUUI  :...:uml11.·r••l h\ctl lli•••Uit'  Smnhcrtol\lttlllt"•lt• l·,jtllll  
.......  \HIItllll• R~h·.t  \,,umn•lt.Jtnl  .-\.:,,oulll•ltttnl  \HIIIIIIh llllt"\\  .\HIIIIIII•\l~lt'.J  ,\u"tll1111• M.~h·,\  
.~ li:.u  .f/.2,\Jll  ... '4:01.1  :i'2.l.2U  .:.  11.21J  of '-1•1  ... •U111  
!'o\br Ill \'t'Jt  ol;l,.~.l -t 'h--t  5/1.\5 S::\  :'\',\ S/.-\  :\ \ s .\  .. '-41'1­s .. \  .. 'l,.'h,; !'\ ·\  
--­ ---­ 

---------~------·· 

••t)U\1. '''\' rJIII1t'' Jlt' 1>,1~· 1 !tlll '1\r\t\'• l''•"\llliri!JI hllJihiJI•tll"ll)!lh,,;\,um• 1'•1\"UI~ .tl•lill\ Jllolont·r,tll ttpo:r.llm~ 1"-'fhtrlliJih.t' 'lh'4.·tlottl ~'"''' 11111ln 111~1\J~:ntll"nl . "\tormfllllf ~·f•,..,, ', /ro•lllfJ/1/oo Utr:llltl ·~'•• 1 •'~' 1 '• IY'Jtl. l•p)>!."t .\nJhllt.ll "-'I lilt'\, )n1 . 1.1/'prr /)nHtllr'• Auotfttlotll lhrW. )IJ'Jtl ttju.llll'lh 1, ('Ill I o\'rllli,Jit"• Jll•l lllh'l\"<.1• m lho· II.\.\ \(,·.11 I \l.lh' .-\••••IIIII .11\' oh\lnhuh·ol I>• II\:\ C Ill I ln,l••••lu,ol ·111 •1 ln<.lllllltun~J "'""'' h•• IIIII!\' '""')'kh· mlmlll~llllll, mduJnJt:. ohJI).lt'' ,1ml t'\I'CIN"'· o'JJII HIM) tl.. l ,:t~.U.t '''"'"'"n ~.;1111. htl thr ( 10 I· .nul 11:\A lh·.lll·.~t.lh" .\.:ottUIII pn"I"'''IH"'' lh·.ullhnn ,,ul'lulh l•t't••rt· \1111 111\l''l"' 't'llolmonn 
damental in marketing yourself and being ready for the job market." 
Barb Henry, director of Alumnae Helations, will bn at the KickoiT to stress the impor­tance of establishing relation­ships with past graduates and to help students realize that networking helps students form a solid foundation for their careers, Simmerman said. 
Simmerman noted that the Career Center has other resources that would be valu­able to seniors such as the Alumnae Hesource Network. This computer program helps students sec what alumnae have done with their majors and what they are doing cur­rently. 
The center contains informa­tion on various job opportuni­ties, internships and job options after graduation. There are books available for numer­ous careers and assistants are available daily to help with any problems or questions. 

La-w prof 
•



receives award 
Special co The Observer 
Donald Kommers, the 

Joseph and Elizabeth Hobbie 
Professor of Government and 
International Studies and pro­
fessor of law at Notre Dame. 
received a rare honorary 
degree in a noteworthy cere­
mony this summer at the 
University of lleidelburg. 
The German institution's 

law faculty conferred a doctor 
of laws on Kommers at com­
mencement exercises July 24. 
It was the first honorary 
degree presented by the law 
faculty since 1986, the 600th 
anniversary of the university, 
and marked the first time in 
30 years that the faculty wore 
their academic gowns. 
Kommers was cited as one of the "most highly regarded constitutional scholars of our tim," the Hhein-Neckar­Zeitung newspaper reported. "lie was honored especially for his work in introducing Americans to German consti­tutional law and the jurispru­dence of (Germany's) Federal Constitutional Court ... The bestowal of the honorary degree upon Professor Kommers constituted the high point of the festivities." 
Kommers delivered a speech titled "What Americans Can Learn From Germany's Constitutional Experience." 
After the student revolution­ary movement of the late 1960s, the practice of wearing academic gowns was discon­tinued at most German Universities. After consider­able debate, the law faculty at Heidelberg decided to resume the custom this summer ­though two faculty members protested by continuing to wear dark suits. 
Founded in 1386, Heidelberg is the oldest University in Germany and among the oldest in Europe. The university's law faculty is rated first in the country . 
Kommer's earned his bach­elor's degree in philospophy and English literature in 1954 from Catholic University. 
-~ ------~......, 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
-----·------------------=...::..::..::---=-..::...::..:=-------=-.c=---'-'--=-------------------=-----=------­
Crown 
continued from page 3 
empower American women to achieve their personal and pro­fessional goals. Over $100 mil­lion in educational scholarships have been awarded, making it the nation's leading achievement program. 
Miss America 1991, Marjorie Vincent, describes her experi­ence with the organization as one that allowed her to "live a successful and effective life." 
Although the Miss America pageant continues to evolve and thrive, it remains the focus of close scrutiny. Reporter Tish Durkin combated this attention when she disclosed that the fem­inist movement had never before ridiculed any "woman who's ever tried to have, no. be, it all." 
Leonard Horn. President of the Miss America Organization, believes "in a world that has nothing but troubles, this is something really good [andI wholesome." 
The pageant continues to thrive at the turn of the century. Last year, the ABC network led the TV ratings competition for the first time in 18 weeks when it aired the pageant. 
lnformnlion ntlribulP L11 www.mis~n1n••d1·a.••rg 

Royalty 
continued from page 3 
to. The judges want an honest answer even if it is controver­sial. It keeps you on your toes." 
The prizes which are awarded 
also  emphasize  intelligence,  
contestants say.  
"You  can  win  scholarship  

money up to $20,000," James said. "One of the girls who won Miss Georgia was a math major at Emory University. These are intelligent women." 
"The crown doesn't go to the skinniest, prettiest, girl," said Strohmeyer. "There are some girls who are not intelligent. but that is the exception to the rule." 
Yet while the interview process and prizes do convey that intelligence is a factor in pageants. the problem still remains of how the American public views them a young girls 
• RUSSlA 


New government may print more money 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW 
Russia's new government showed some of its cards Tuesday, proposing to print money to pay back wages and impose some Soviet-style con­trols over the market-but also making a key appointment to enhance its reform credentials. 
The head of the centrist Our Home Is Russia party, Alexander Shokhin, was named deputy prime minister in charge of financial issues -a daunting job as Russia tries to pull itself out of its economic morass. He said he expected another mem­ber of his faction to be named to a Cabinet post later. 
Shokhin served as Russia's economics minister at the start of the country's free-market reforms. He has promised that Russia's policies will be based on "fundamental market-econ­omy principles." 
Russian liberals and media have been making doomsday predictions that the new gov­ernment, under Prime Minister Yevgeny Primakov, will repre­
in particular. 
"As a seven year old, the only reason that I wanted to get involved was because I saw a pretty girl with a crown on her head," said Strohmeyer. 
"The standard of beauty that is emphasized in pageants con­veys some negative messages to 
young  women  that  beauty  is  
most  important,"  1-Iaigwood  
said.  

Contestants say that message can be changed by the winner's role in the community. Platforms for community service required for the competitions allow women ways to effectively change their communities, con­testants said. 
"With a platform, women have to go out and do something in the community," James said. ller platform involved develop­ing an Adopt-a-Grandparent program for her school to estab­lish connections between youth and the elderly. 



?<. fk-~· e s.e. ?<. 11ill 7fl..d. e.s.e. 
"JM-.-u~-tk ~ euw-tW-tp41t ~~«U'Uu ~~ ~ s~ • ~ Z>-.e. 1~ 46556 {219) 63/-63K5 " ~://tiiiiHtMui.u/4/-~ 
ANSWER -;jp" THECALLW 

sent a retreat to Soviet-era eco­nomic policies. 
Primakov, who conferred with President Boris Yeltsin on new Cabinet appointments Tuesday, insists he is only trying to create a team that represents all the major political and economic factions, including the Communist Party. 
The prime minister also met with an International Monetary Fund delegation on Tuesday. He later issued a statement saying the Russian side was committed to "market reforms, but pointed out the need for some changes in the ways of their implemen­tation to ensure sustainable economic growth and to take into account all the social aspects of the reforms," accord­ing to the ITAR-Tass news agency. 
The Interfax news agency said the international lenders supported the strategic goals -of the new government. 
llowever, aside from a few preliminary measures, Primakov has not announced any economic program and appears to be seeking political 
"Platforms allow women to speak out on issues in the com­munity, and show their intellec­tual strength," said Strohmeyer. "Pageants can provide spring­boards for women to education­al and professional opportuni­ties." 
Yet maturity is required to look at pageants from this per­spective, Kenton says. 
"Contestants need to be confi­dent in themselves and mentally strong," she said. "There's a reason why kids should not compete. The focus is wrong when you are young-kids aren't mentally strong yet." 
"I may have looked at it just as a pretty girl and a crown when I was seven, but there is a big dif­ference between a seven year old and an eighteen year old," 
· Strohmeyer said. "Now I look at the winners as well-rounded people with goals. Now that I am older, I understand it's not just about the crown." 
consensus rather than quick economic action. He has asked to be given up to a year before his policies were assessed. 
Central Bank chairman Viktor Gerashchenko called Tuesday for a return to the Soviet-era practice of requiring exporters to turn in all of their hard cur­rency earnings to the govern­ment, in exchange for rubles at a state-determined rate. 
The measure "is long over­due," Gcrashchenko said. "That should have been done last year." 
New First Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Maslyukov -a Communist Party member who nevertheless has shown himself willing to work in a reform-ori­ented government -has also advocated the measure. 
No one in the government has called for reviving Soviet-era fundamentals such as fully nationalized industry, price con­trols or ending the free flow of capital and the ruble's convert­ibility. 
The Communist Party, which has formed the most solid oppo­sition to Yeltsin, has distanced itself from the new administra­tion. Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov said the appointment of Maslyukov, a former central planner, and Gerashchenko, a former Soviet chief banker, was a Kremlin ini­tiative, not a Communist pro­posal. 
Zyuganov met with Primkov on Tuesday to discuss the new government. 

Yeltsin assured French President Jacques Chirac dur­ing a telephone conversation Tuesday that Russia'"will not deviate from the course of HCO­nomic reforms," Yeltsin's press service said. 
Gerashchenko said he sup­ported printing more money to pay off many months' of unpaid wages. "'We ean't do without that," he said. 
However, he did not say if the increase in the money supply would be underpinned by the Central Bank's hard currency reserves. If the bank simply prints money that is not backed by assets, that would erode the value of the ruble and eould lead to hyperinl1ation. 

Classes are starting now! 
Call today to reserve your seat. 
The next class starts Wed. 9/23 Hurry and sign up today! 

~ 
In t eader 
est Prep

1·800-KAP·TEST ----..:.:.:::.. 
www.kaplan.com 
'GRE is a registered trademark of the Educational Testing Service. 
60 YEARS OF BUILDING FUTURES. ONE SUCCESS STORY AT A TIME. 
CLASS OF 2000 GOLF SCRAMBLE!! 

1st Prize Color TV 

Other Prizes Include: -2nd Place Team -3rd Place Team 
-Worst Team -Long Drive -Closest to the Pin $36 per 4 person team, call Erich or Mike @ 4 x 3546 Sunday, September 20th at Notre Dame * one free sleeve of golf balls per entering player, anyone can enter 
Sponsored by: 
(JRJcEWAfERHousf[mPERS I 
Wc:dnc:sday, September 16, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
Casino opens on West Bank 
AssoLiatcd Pn:ss 
.II~HICIIO. West Bank 
T h n r n w~~ r c no c r o o n i n g loung1~ lizards, and a few of the gamblers were as worried about u~rrorism as how tlwir blackjack hands would play out. 
But for most of the VIP crowd at Tuesday's grand opening of the first 1:asino in tho Palestinian lands, the question of safety was llw sanw as il is every day in this part or the here -it givr.s me a good feel­ing," said Sami Alayan. a 2(1­year-old Palestinian who owns a small eonstruction company. "This will bring us tognther." 
Michael Levy. a 60-year-old surgeon from Tel Aviv, said he hopes to become a regular at the Oasis although he is some­what concerned it could become a target for terror attacks. 
"If there's even thr, slightest incident here, all th(l money invested will go out the win-

world -a roll of llw dice. The $!i0 million Oasis 
casino, a glitzy glass-and­
'IT'S THEIR (THE PALFSTINI~NS] the hun­stonP emporium in the dreds, with
CHOICE -WE RFSPECT IT. a r id Ill 0 0 n s 1: a p (1 0 r t he b u s e s .ludnan dnsert. opened its rolling in doors to a limited group BENJAMIN NETANYAHU from Tel 
of inviLPes and pn~parnd for tlw gambling public to 
d nsrn rHI  s la rti n g  
WPdrwsday.  
Only  a  half-hour  from  

JerusaiPm. on the outskirts of tlw biblical town of Jericho. the casino-1wentually to be joined bv luxury hotP!s and golf cours­e~ -hopes to attract foreign tourists. Israelis and Palestinians who live in lsranl. HesidPnts of lhP W1~sl Bank and c;aza Strip an~ bring barred at Llw rPqunst of Yassr~r Arafat's l'aiPsli nian Authority. 
That n•quPsl apparently was madn in part to appease Ararat's Islamic opposition. which has condPmned gambling as sinful and said TuPsday that it was r.onsidering what str.ps to take now that tho casino is open. 
Al a blackjack table. Arabs from east Jnrusalnm and Israelis sat sidn by side, laying down tlwir bets. · 
"Then~·s no discrimination 
dow," Lnvy said. 
At thr. roulette table. a Palestinian was calling bets when ashd whether all the casino will help bring peace. 
"It'll help our economy," the dealer said, then seguPd smoothly back into his croupi­er's role. '"No more bPts, please!" he called. 
Arafat's cash-strapped gov­ernment hopes the casino will prove a jackpot in the form of gaming taxes. But some Palestinians living nearby fear that littl11 of the wealth generat­ed by thr. 1:asino will trickle down. 
Thr. contrasts of' glamour and poverty are inescapabln. The casino is j usl across the street from the Aqabat Jaber refugee camp. a shantytown of dirt roads, water shortages and fre­quent powr.r outages. 

While the YIPs arrived, a few locals lingered at the gate, peek­ing in to try to catch a glimpse. Guards turned them away. 
Security was tight. Before bet­tors could roll the dice or play a hand of blackjack, they were snarched and scanm1d by metal detectors. 
When the casino opens to the general public, gamblers will have to register their passport numbers. 
The opening-night crowd 
quickly bal­
looned into 

Aviv and  a  
steady stream of  
cars. Prime  Minister  Benjamin  

Netanyahu. who has had few areas of agreement with the Palestinians of late. had nothing eritical to say about the Palestinian move into the gam­bling trade. 
"It's their choice -we respect it," he said. Gambling is illegal in Israel. 
Islamic fundamentalists, how­ever. are railing against the· casino as a den of iniquity. The militant Islamic group l-lamas stopped short of direct threats, but made clear its displeasure. 
"'This is an indicator of cor­ruption." the group's spiritual leader. Sheik Ahmed Yassin, said Tuesday in the Gaza Strip. "In tiH' name of llamas we con­dnmn this project. ... We are studying the steps we shall take." 

Assodared Press 
WASHINGTON An ambitious effort to overhaul Mexico's corrupt n1law-enforcement system h,as been thrown into tur­i!F moil by the disclosure that n:top.investigators of an elite 
American-trained police unit may have ties to drug traffickers, American offi­cials say. 
The disclosure emerged after recent lie-detector tests administered, at Mexican authorities' request, to Mexiean police agents by American Government experts. 
Officials said at least some of those investigators whose tests indieated col­lusion with traffickers had been chosen for their posts after elaborate screening devised by Americans. 
American officials said they were just beginning to assess the damage that corrupt investigators might have wrought, a task that will take weeks. Most senior officials in the unit were implicated by the lie­detector tests. 
Officials said they feared that much of the sensitive information that American law-enforcement agents 
had shared with the 
;;.g'Mexican unit during the last year might haye been ··compromised. 
U.S. investigators may have drug ties 
"You have to assume that everything we've been giving them has ended up in the hands of the traf­fickers" said a senior United States law-enforce­ment official who, as did others. insisted on anonymity. "It's a disas­ter." 
Other oft1cials were more cautious about the signi11­cance of the tests. But they said they expected that American collaboration with the unit to be sus­pended until the Mexican Attorney General's officH undertook an investigation of the case. 
A senior Mexican law­enforcement official said tonight that the accusa­tions were serious. but did not necessarily mean that senior investigators had been working for trat'fick­ers. He said. though. that an administrative inquiry was under way and that one senior investigator httd been reassigned. 
"This vetting process was not the one we agreed to; the questions were not clear and they were not the ones we authorized," the official, who insisted on anonymity, said of the American conclusions. 
"Failing a polygraph does not mean that these people eommitted crimes or took money," he said. 
THREE HUNDRED COMPANIES. 
ONE CHOICE• 
HERE'S OUR CARD. TAI<E SOME TIME AND CHECK US OUT AT THE CAREER FAIR. 
BUSINESS CAREER FORUM Trilogy is building the next great software company. Our goal is to become a $1 billion company before 2001. As a result of our growth objectives, the business
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 1 7 
opportunities for you are boundless. Depending on your interests, you can lead a
7 P.M. -10 P.M. 
business unit. pioneer a vertical industry, spin off a subsidiary, or launch a product FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 18 line. At Trilogy, your options are unlimited. 
9:30 A.M. -4 P.M. 
We urge you to learn more about the opportunities at Trilogy by visiting us at
C 0 BA 

(COLLIGI or JUSIHESS ADNIIfiiTU.nON) 
the Business Career Forum. 
On Campus Contact Anne Letzerich, anne.letzerich@trilogy.com 
TRILOGY 
6034 W. Courtyard Dr. Austin, TX 78730 t 512.425.3400 f 512.794.8900 
www. trilogy. com 
Trilogy 1s an equal opportunity employer. 


Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
page 10 The Observer· ELECTION NEWS 
Nine states, capitol hold pri01ary election contests 

• NEW YORK 

Schumer beats out Ferraro 
General Election: 
Associated Press "I thought of how blessed enter the race in January, I am, both personally and months behind SehumerNov. 3 NEW YORK in the opportunity I've had and Green. 
Geraldine Ferraro's polit­to serve," Ms. Ferraro said. Her campaign suffered ieal comeback ended in the "As my campaign for U.S. problems with fund raising New York primary on and getting out a con-Tuesday, as she failed cise message. Green to win the Democratic became fond of saying 
nomination to chal­'AS MY CAMPAIGN FOR U.S. she was "running on lenge GOP Sen. the fumes of fame." Alfonse D'Amato. SENATE ENDS ••• I WANT M e a n w h i 1 e , 
Charles Sehumer, a YOU TO KNOW I WILL CONTINUE Sehumer dipped into his $13 million cam­
Results<in the resf,of 
Brooklyn congressman TO SPEAK UP FOR ISSUES I
•CONN with a huge warchest, paign fund to blanket GOVERNOR: 
easily beat Ms. BELIEVE IN.' the state with televi­
Barbara Kennelly Ferraro and Mark sion advertisements 
John Rowland UH()J'}Pl)Sc<l,. 
Green, New York months before the pri­
SENATE: City's elected publie GERALDINE FERRARO mary. 
Franks and advocate. Ms. Ferraro, New York 
Christopher Dodd a vice presidential candi­Senate ends, and for any Democrats also chose a date in 1984, had said this future elective office, I candidate to take on Gov. would be her last race if want you to know I will George Pataki in the pop­
• DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA··. 
she lost. continue to speak up for ular Hepublican incum­MAYOR: Anthony Williams, With 74 percent of issues I believe in." bent's bid for a secondformer chief fmancial manager; 
precincts reporting, Ms. Ferraro, who nar­term.
beat six other Democrats for the· Schumer had 262,481 rowly lost a 1992 race for New York City Council
nation to succeed fo~r-t~rm 
votes, or 51 percent, while the Democratic nomination Speaker Peter ValloneMarion Barry. 
Ms. Ferraro had 136,156 to challenge D'Amato, gave easily defeated Lt. Gov. votes, or 26 percent. Green up a $195,000-a-year job Betsy McCaughey Hoss, 
•MARYLAND received 96,888 votes, or as a co-host of CNN's who only became a 
GOVERNOR: Democratic'Gov; 19 percent. "Crossfire" program to Democrat a year ago after Glendening beat two nni,fHGilo~m nents. lr{the u·~,.....,,.... • OKLAHOMA 
nominee Ellen executive 
Carroll tops dead woman in race
SENATE: Mikulski·· be 
Associated Press Carroll had 75 percent, while Ms.
Democr 
Ledgerwood had 25 percent.
Pierpont won OKLAHOMA CITY Even though Ms. Ledgerwood died of aprimary. 
A strange political odyssey ended in heart attack soon after filing her candida­Oklahoma when an air conditioning repair­cy, she finished second in the four-way pri­man easily defeated his dead rival for the mary on Aug. 25 and advanced to the Democratic nomination to challenge three­runofl' because Carroll fell short of 50 per­term GOP Sen. Don Nickles. cent. 
Don Carroll, a 40-year-old political new­Her family couldn't get her name on· the comer, got three times as many votes as ballot. Democratic Party officials guessed the late Jacquelyn Ledgerwood to win the that many voters did not know of her nomination. death because the race had generated lit­
With 70 percent of precincts reporting, tle publicity. 

AMf.RIC\N ADVERTISING FEDERATION 
I~II: i:NII"l lNG VOICE FUR ADVERTISING 

The American Advertising Federation presents... 
The Saint Mary's/Notre Dame Advertising Club 
•l,ooo 
Internship Opportunities 

•
Meet top executives in the biz 


•Agency 
visits to Chicago and maybe New York 

•Create 
an ad campaign with multimedia presentation for Toyota Motor, Inc. 

•Create 
real campaigns for local non-profit organizations 

•
Web site development 


•
Experience account planning and creative strategizing 

•
Develop your creative portfolio 



Be a part of an organization that gets your foot in the door! 
Come to the first meeting... 
Wednesday, September 16 @9:00pm Haggar College Center On the Saint Mary's College Campus (Chameleon Room) 

WEDNESDAY SEPTEMBER 16, 1998 4:45-5:45 PM 118 DEBARTOLO 
APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE 1999-00 APPLICATION DEADLINE OCT 1 FOR SPRING 1999 


page 11

Wednesday, September 16, 1998 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
•IRAN

• JAPAN 
Afghan worries put Iran on alert 
Typhoon Stelle hits central Japan 
Associated Press at a speed of' 28 mph, the down by high waves. 
agency said. Katsumi lnamoto, 46, suf­
TOKYO It was expected to head fered a skull fracture, Nomura 
Typhoon Stella, with winds toward Japan's northern main said. up to h5 mph, hit central island of llokkaido later Masashi Suzuki, also 46, Japan early Wednesday, Wednesday, the agency said. sustained bruises to his body. 
bringing rain and high waves In Shizuoka, about 100 peo­Both men were treated at a that eaused at least two ple were evacuated to public nearby hospital. injuries. facilities after more than 14 National broadcaster NHK 
Waves as high as 23 fr,r,t hit inches of rain fell in just 24 reported transportation dis­coastal areas in Shizuoka pre­hours, said police spokesman ruptions in parts of central, f(H:ture, or state, where Stella Kenji Nomura. He said 275 eastern and northern Japan. came ashorn narly Wednesday homos in Shizuoka were flood­Three domestic airlines can­morning, the Mntnorological ed. celed scheduled morning i\g(~ney said. Two of six Tokyo Electric flights to and from Tokyo's 
Tlw season's fifth typhoon, Power Co. workers restoring Haneda airport, but Tokyo's 
Stella was locatnd about. 90 power to households in the main international airport at milns nortlwast. of Tokyo and town of Higashiizu were Narita was largely unaffected, was heading north-northeast injured after being knocked NHK said. 
,..r" 
-~. 
··; .. 
The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit. It's so delicious, it just might turn you into a morning person. 
Our fresh-baked biscuit topped with siz,zJing sausage, egg and melted cheese tastes so good, it's enough to make anybody happy in the mormng. If only getting through the rest ofthe day was as easy. 
(At participating restaurants. During breakfast hours only.) 
The Huddle · LaFortune Student Center 
BURGER 
KING 
Itjust tastes better. 

C 1998 B1uger K1n9 Corporation Burger Kmg CorporaJJOn ~~rho exclusive licensee oilhe regrstered Bun Halves logo trademark. 
,

r L_ ------------­I The Sausage, Egg and Cheese Biscuit I 
for just 99 cents

I I 
Presenl coupon before order~ng. Limtl one per cuslomer. Nor lo be used wilh olher coupons or offers. Void where oronibiled bv
I I
law.. Cash value 1/1 DOe. Slate sales lax applicable. Good only al participating reslauranls in Exptres C1998 Burger King Corporation. LaFortune Student Center 
9124108 
..-..

I It just tastes better. :<'.;~ I 
L LaFortune Student Center 
.J 

Associated Press 
TEHRAN 

With tensions increasing with neighboring Afghanistan, Iran on Tuesday put its mili­tary and top civilian officials on full alert and called for nationwide demonstrations. 
The government called on 
the public to turn out for 
protest rallies following Friday 
prayers, the official Islamic 
Republic News Agency report­
ed. 

Both countries have massed 
troops on their common bor­
der since the fundamentalist 
Taliban admitted Thursday to 
killing eight Iranian diplomats 
and a journalist last month. 
The official Islamic Republic 
News Agency quoted Iran's 
supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali 
Khamenei, as saying Tuesday 
that military and top civilian 
officials must be ready "for 
speedy, timely and decisive 
implementation of whatever 
decisions the senior political 
and security authorities deem 
necessary." 
The leadership of Iran's par­
liament warned that the situa­
tion in Afghanistan "will turn 
into a regional and trans­
regional crisis" and urged Islamic nations to meet to counter the threat, IRNA said. 
In Saudi Arabia, Taliban representative Mawlawi Shehabuldin said the religious army does not want war with Iran but that "we are ready to encounter and fight against any outside Iranian invasion." His comments were made in an interview with the London­based Al-Sharq Al-Awsat, which was to be published Wednesday. 
The Taliban, which controls about 90 percent of Afghanistan, is widely believed to be supported by Pakistan. Iran, alleged to be backing the alliance fighting the Taliban, has urged a government be formed of all Afghan factions. 
Most Pakistanis are Sunni Muslims like most Afghans. Iran has a majority of Shiite Muslims. 
On Tuesday, thousands of Iranians marched in the city of Qom, south of Tehran, protest­ing the diplomats' deaths, Iranian television reported. 
There have been widespread calls in Iran for a strike on the Taliban, whose forces killed the Iranians after capturing the Afghan city of Mazar-e­Sharif on Aug. 8 . 

Hair by jill Kuharic at 
Cosimo's Shapes and Lines 
a full service salon ]or men and women 
•latest in cuts and styles 
•color, highlighting andpenns 
• styles and updo 's for special occasions 
• quality products including Aveda, Nexxus, and Paul Mitchell 
277-1875 

convienently located at 1707 South Bend Ave. (in walking distance fom ND) experience and quality guaranteed! 
~rEcrAL Atx!-a 
INVITATION ~Q~ $j Announces the Following Introductory Offers of...c> r{00;;;-rf1 r $2s , r -$59-, r -$'37-, r-$70-, 1 I I I I c I I I I H'l' & I
A veda Cut & I Color, ul I IManicure and I I t ttes I I Retail I I Style I L & style .J L Pedtcure .J 1 Cut & Style 1
L--.J L---' ------..... ___ __. 
•Please call to schedule your appointment• 
..---------,
Stylist: This offer NOT valid with Cindy. •Nli:WCLIENTSONt..Y• Please use the Special Savings inviJation and gello Ad must be presented to receptionist 
know us. You'll be pleased wi1h 1he quality and ser-before services are perfonned vice we provide. anti we will tlo our best to meril your (CCrU'Iin n:otrictiOI\~ apply) confidence and patronage. We hope to see you.won. 
Atria SalonNot valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No 1357 N. Ironwood Drive 

other discounts appfy. Open some evenings. Atria Salon South Bend, IN 46615
reserves the right to reluse service to any client whose hair Tel. 219-289-5080
condition is unsuitable. Expires 9/30/98. 


VIEWPOINT 
pagel2-------------------------------------------------os~rRvER -------------------------------Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OrFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR .... Michelle Kl'upa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR.. .......... Eduardo Llull All DESIGN MANAGER ............ Brett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ..................Kachlcen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER. ..... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS... .............. Sarah Dylag CONTROU.ER ...... . .............Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY's EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................I'et< Ci\ella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of tht: University ofNorrc Dame duLac and Saint Mary's Collegl!. It does nur necessarily rdlt'ct the policies of rhe administration of either insrirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objecrivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials n:presenr rhe opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chid~ Managing Editor, AssiMam Managing Editor .md department editors. Commentaries, leners and columns present rhe views ofthe authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all member~ of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary\ communiry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opiniom through leuer!> is encouraged. 
ldmtacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Spom 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Samt Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.\ @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5.'103 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• CHICKEN SOUP FOR THE OBSERVER 
Put Your Arms Out and Run 
I began the school year with the bit­tersweet realization that, as a junior, I am right in the middle of what I believe to be four of the best years of 
===============~ 
Jaclyn Villano 

my life. Hecognizing that half of my years as a Notre Dame undergrad are over. I found comfort in the thought that the past two years have been time well spent. 
Thinking back, I remember going to classes that first week of freshman year and being tremendously impressed by my professors, who could recite Dante by memory, and spout formulas off the tops of their heads that I couldn't understand with a textbook in hand and a tutor at my side. I was enthralled, and slightly overwhelmed. by the worldliness and scholastic ability of these men and women. I vowed that someday, I would be just like them. 
It is now two years later. and some­where along the way, my priorities have changed. Or rather, they've grown, and I have realized that in addition to becoming more intelligent and worldly, there are other more important qualities that I am striving to attain while here at ND. 
J\.11 of this was still unbeknownst to me, however, until last Thursday, when a conversation with two of my roommatos left me with a changed perspective. My roommate Brigid and I had been sitting in our quad, dis­cussing our upcoming SYR. We were excited, but admittedly, a bit appre­hensive. Dances have a way of mani­
festing themselves into something big­
ger than they are meant to be. What starts out as the promise of a fun evening can quickly turn into cause just linished working diligently on a painting, he was at the sink washing his hands when he looked up and noticed Tina. His face broke into a huge grin, and he began to giggle. Suddenly, he put his arms out and ran straight to her, and just held her as she scooped him into her arms. 
organic chemistry and mechanical engineering, need a "date week" to improve our relations with each other? How have we turned something so simple into something so complicat­ed? And why do we find it so difficult to just put our arms out and run? 
Kids like Dominic astonish me. They 
for worrying: are unfailingly "What if he honest, and they thinks this?," take incredible "What if she risks. They thinks that?" aren't afraid to Everyone seek answers to 
-------=========-----starts assum­hard questions, 
face light up 


ing too much, or to show peo­and somehow, ple how they the fun can feel. Sometimes get lost. they succeed, 
We were sometimes thev mulling this fail. But kids are over when always fearless another room­in their quest to mate burst understand peo­through the ple and the door, return­world. ing from the In my first two Early years here at Childhood Notre Dame, I Development have been edu­Center where cated about she volunteers many subjects by each week. I professors who watched her are brilliant, 
as she plopped down on the couch and began to talk about the kids, especially one child in particular, a little boy named Dominic. 
When Tina lirst arrived at the ECDC, all of the children in her class had been busy enHtting projects. She walked around and praised the kids for jobs well done, and then she noticed Dominic, an adorable two-year old boy with striking blue eyes and hair that looked like cornsilk. Having 
The simplicity of Dominic's gesture made a huge impression on me. Dominic didn't try to guess if he would be rejected. lie didn't need to make any mental notes about body lan­guage, or weigh the consequences of expressing his feelings. He just put his arms out and ran. 
What is it that changes with time, and makes expressing ourselves to each other so diflicult? Why is it that we Notre Dame students, who can ace 
respected and internationally recognized. In the next two, I want to learn more about life from kids like Dominic, who are amaz­ingly brave, strong and resilient. 
Someday, I will be just like them. 
Jaclyn Villano is a junior arts and letters major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer . 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
YOtiKNOII4 Z!PP&R.,I f{AON0/0&.4 /TNA~Ya.J INA~5M!t-IAIGAT/  1HeY'V/3 /3el3N L..IK/3, 'ti/3!:> SO N!Cf3.,"ANO "He's SO O.JT&,"8UT THIS PLAC& I~ S(J 81(3 I RGUR£1?I'/? IIIN6R MeeT YOU/ ~  
\  

• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Ibelieve in making the 
world safe for our chil­

dren, but not our children's 
children because I don't 
think children should be 
having sex.' 
-Jack Handey 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, September 16, 1998 ----------------os~ERVER --------------------------------------------pagel3 

• LETTER TO THE EDITOR

• LIKE ARROWS IN THE HAND OF A WARRIOR 
Hispanic Caribbean Program 
The Peasant of the 
Provides Unique Opportunity for 
Pavements 

Notre Dame Students
"Tlw Holy Father den and not a blessing. This is a soci­appoints a Bishop ety that breeds a culture of death. In to a seat (a cathedral) such a society people hire or buy 
I was quite disappointed by the Sept. 10 Hathcr a significant previous knowledge of so thP pPople may hear the truth guns and try to kill each other, and 
Campus Scene seetion entitled "We've Got spoken and written Spanish is required. For that will sPt them free. give their hatred intellectual-sound­
the Whole World in our Hands," for the fol­this reason. the program is particularly lit­Cloq.,ry. tmu:hers and journalisL'l ing names; while those who do not 
lowing reason: although briefly mentioned at ted for juniors (but not exdusivelyl. who an• thP amplifiers light, "refuse to feed the poor-and 
the start of the artie! c. the Caribbean have had the time at the University or on of llw Bishop's voice. let the politicians/ reed the poor/ by 
Program -the most recent addition to the other study abroad programs, to build up Fathnrs and mothers going around/ like pickpockets.'' 
International Studies Programs at Notre their rnpertoirc; Dame-was the only one of ND's 14 pro" • An independent comparative project on
must also bn !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ Savage capitalism th(~ Bishop's is not a functional 
grams not to receive its own descriptive some contemporary aspect of the countries blurb. is also required of the partidpants. Thevoiel'... society; it is an
GabrI.eI 

In fact, the two-page spread did not even research for these projecL'> draws upon what McB.. this is ety. 
No, Father acquisitive soci­
explain that this new program is an unique has been learned in dass but is essentially not that For Peter, as for 
opportunity for the comparative study of completed out on the street (or on the beach. three Spanish­in some eases),"white-robed many others. a
Mart'ne 

speaking talking with tlw but lw dPfends one where it is Polack'' again, good society is 
I Z 

nation-states­natives. If tlwy Papal easy to be good. 
Puerto Hieo choose, students Suprenuu:y. !lis was a philoso­
(which is actu­can take advan­No, Ms. P.. this is not thP lnader of' phy centen~d on the person, his dig-
ally still a terri­tage of this oppor­somn fascist eult, but he loves the nity and responsibilities toward his 
tory of the tunity to cond uet Church's hiPrarchy. Tho quote is part community. What a far cry from the 
U.S.). the hands-on of the l·:asy Essays by the founder "compassionate state" they try to sell 
Dominican researeh to hP and inspiration of the Catholic us nowadays! In a good society poo· 
Hepublic and latnr used on tlwir Worker Movement, Peter Maurin. pic are generous even when not 
Cuba. A bit of theses or area "Birth control threatened by an IHS audit. and peo­
investigative studies papers. is not sHll"-c~ontrol. plo do not Jive olf other people's 
reporting As is cvidnnt, What is not self control sweat. A "compassionate state" is 
would have this program is snlf-indulgenee. just that, a state and not a society, 
quickly discov­merits much What is snlf-indulgence and it is no substitute for the com· 
ered the follow-rncognition. It is is prostitution of functions. passionate pt~ople whose place it 
ing: innovative, a Pmstitution in marriage takes. "The spare room, the extra 
• The pro-result of iL'l com-is prostitution of marriage. jacket," all those belong to the poor, 
gram is only parative and Prostitution of marriagtl but not via the 1040 Form. Our char-
offered during dynamic struc­is prostitution plus hypocrisy." ity must be perr;:;onnl: from ape~·s(m 
the spring . .. . ,.. , ture. and chal-In the final days of the spring, a to a person. ·· ·· · 
semester (the rr.nging-the fall is hurri-social. politiealfr·iend introduced me to The Catholic "To be our brother's keeper · cane season in and economicWorkor. It wa.':l tho time to fall in is what God wants us to do. 
this region} and complexities of love, and I fell in love with this untir-To feed the hungry will be enjoy-the region ing teaeher, this Peasant of' the at a personal sacrifice ing, in 1999, its abound. AlsoPavernonL'l, this visionary who wrote is what Gotl wants us to do. 
second year of numerous howev­simply as if to humbly hide his To clothe the naked existence. or, and importantthoughts. I Jere I propose to be quite at a personal sacrifice • The stu-to the traveling unjust to Pt~tor. I will not present a is what God wants us to do. 
dents selected ND student, arepicture of him a.'l he was, ti>r I have To shelter the homeless study under 17 the opportunities only the collection of his writings and at a personal sacrifice university pro-for exploration what his friml(i, Dorothy Day, had to is what God wants us to do. 
fessors and and fun, thesay about him. But I will present an To instruct the ignorant academics, chance to appro­impression of his thought as I under-at a personal sacrifice some of the ciate the natural stood it, the thought with which I tell is what God wants us to do. 
region's most "beauties" of the in love. To serve man for God's sake distinguished islands: the sighL'l,"As some people used to think/ that is what God wants us to do." 
scholars in the "sabores" WP need a good honest war/ to end Peter did not write about the their fields. The (tastes) and whoall wars. Karl Marx used to think/ scourge of our day, abortion. Back in classes are tai-could forget, the
that we need a gigantic class-strug-his day, the law had a little bit more lornd to the SALSA!
gle/ to bring about a dassless soci-sense; back then, murder was illegal. 
Notre Dame Geographically,oty." llo did not understand why oth-Last wtwk's PSA article brought a student's needs this region may 
<'rs spent so much time writing about barrage of arguments in favor of how bad things are lin society, in the socially justified murder. It is funny 
-although at Hispanic Caribbean Program participants in Havana, se:m t~l j,us~ ~c .· Chureh): Isn't it much better to wt·ite to see in the same article a desire for 
different sites Cuba in front of the statue of Cuban patriot Jose Marti. the UmtLd States 
of study, the ' "backyard." Yet 
about things as they should be. so a society of abundance where all life academic mater-culturally, it is athat they will move people into will be respected equally, and an ial taught builds upon the previous compo-whole now neighborhood. Don't overlook itchanging the world? One style leads exposition of the need for realpolitik nent(s). Sites include the capital of Puerto ... and good luck on your travels! 
to confrontation. hatr·ed, vlolonce, in our prosent society, according to Rico, San Juan; Santiago de los Caballeros in and death (sin, in a word). The other which tho lives of the most defense· the Dominican Hepublic and various cities, Erika M. Serrangets you the label ''visionary." maybe less and vulnerable are considered to including Havana and Santiago, in Cuba; Toledo. Spain 1996-1997boeauso you have vision. For PetHr's have less value than the lives of those 
• Although the classes are all taught in His panic Caribbean 1998
style elevatns the spirit and sots a who have some sort of influence or Spanish, they are NOT language courses. September 11. 1998
goal: "Htl aroused in you a sense of voice. It would be fwmy ifit wasn't your own eapaeiti(~S for work, for sad. The biggest parado?' is not: aceomplishnwnt. lie made you fool "Why do family-values conservatives that you and ali men had great and support social policies that increase generous !warts with whid1 to love indigence and therefore abortion?" God. The real paradox is: "Why do radi· 
"In a 1:apitalist society cals and liberals, whose battle cry is 
'If nobody ever said anything unless 
where man equality and who rally for the under-is inhuman to man dog, stand for social Darwinism and people cannot not for the Univorsal Right to Ufe?" 
he knew what he was talking about, 
keep from dreaming This last paragraph goes to show about a soeinty how much better a writer Peter when~ man Maurin was. Instead of my verbosity, 
a ghastly hush would descend upon 
would b!l human he would have just quoted Someone to man." else: This is Petnr's !wart, this "quil)t "Thou shalt not kill. the earth.' 
yParning." Savage capitalism is the Love as l have loved you." namP for an unfair society. where man's work is a commodity liktl tin Gabriel Martinez is a graduate stu· -Sir Alan Herbert and eabbages, where man is pittnd dent in the department ofeconomics. against man in a mad race of His column appears every other llXploitation and counttlr-m,ploita­Wednesday. tion, where the soil is not seen as the The views expressed in this column basis of human life but yet another are those ofthe author and not nec­
Observer.Viewpoint.! @nd.edu
1:ommotlity. where a baby is a bur-essarily those ofThe Observer. 
r-----------------~,~~----~----~----------------------------~----------------------------------------------­

---------------------------Wednesday, September 16, 1998 


The Brian Setzer Orchestra 
The Dirty Boogie 
Interscope Records 
**** (best out of five) 

H
ey llcpeats, grab your kitten 'cause 
swing's the thing! The new swing craze 
has been accompanied by new bands 
springing up everywhere. The Brian Setzer Orchestra is no newcomer when it comes to swing. They have recently released their third CD entitled The Dirty Boogie. The new album centers around former Stray Cat Brian Setzer. The pompadour sporting, Gretseh guitar playing, hypertattooed guitarist is backed up by a 17­piece band of bass, drums, blaring trumpets, mellow saxophones and big bad bones. 
Holling Stone magazine points out that it would be easy to dismiss Setzer as an opportunist jumping on the swing bandwagon, but he has been playing his unique combo of swing and rockabilly for years. Previous Brian Setzer orchestra releases include 1996's Guitar Slinger, and 1994's self-titled debut. The Dirty Boogie contains a fine mix of original new tunes and covers of old songs. 
Most notably, Setzer has covered "Jump Jive An' Wail," originally performed by Louis Prima back in the day. Many may recognize this song from the GAP commercial entitled "Khakis Swing." The fast pulsing rhythm of this song will surely blow your wig. The B.S.O. has also record­ed the old Stray Cats hit "Hock This Town." Horns have been auded to the famous rockabilly tunc making it even more danceable. If this CD does one thing ror you, it will make you want to dance. Its blaring horns. fast guitar solos, and linger snapping beats will get any Lindy Hopper off of his stool and onto his ground pads. 
In one of tho CD's slower songs, Setzer covers "Since I Don't Have You," originally performed by the Skyliners. Hepcats, make sure to grab your kitten and dance close with her for this song. Original songs arranged by Setzer includo "This Cat's On A Hot Tin Hoof"' and the brassy goodness of "As Long As I'm Sin gin'." 
A number of guest musicians are featured on the new album, adding even more depth to the danceable mix of guitar and horns. No Doubt lead singer Gwen Stefani is featured on "You'rn The Boss," where she sings to Setzer, "Maybe tonight, I'll be the boss/then tomorrow night, I'LL be the boss." The Hoyal Crown Revue's Eddie Nichols, and Meghan Ivey of the Eddie Heed Big Band sing back-up vocals on "Jump Jive An' Wail." 
This CD is a roekin' good tim!). It will mak!) you dance, make you sing, make you jive, and most importantly, make you smile with a desire to gPt on the dance floor and show off your moves. For those of you just getting into swing, this CD is a must-have. The happy horns and driving rhythm have me convinced that "It's the Dirty Boogin for
,.. 
me. 

Keith Kawamoto 

,, ·aio'·"'lahuna, Kaiiil 
,.aM#-Qibto,J~ on tb~J~, -~!f fr~m midnight .. until ::~l:;z a:m. Wednesday +nights on WSND 88.9 
···· · FM Nocturne. !~1!,0'Ska, Punk, Swing. ·.It's more fun than a 
:11~1:: barrel of monkeys" 
A
lot of the people who are starting to rflad this review are probably saying to themselves, "Who on earth is Eagle­Eye Cherry?" Many people will think of him as the guy with the weird hair in the "Save Tonight" video. Even others might confuse him with better known musicians like Ben Harper or the guy !'rom Jamiroquai. Although I would not say that this is one of the greatest albums I have ever heard, I definitely think that on his debut album Desireless, Eagle-Eye Cherry proves that he is not someone who should be quickly looked over. 
The best song on this album is by far "Save Tonight," which has been made into a video. This is the first song on the album and it immedi­ately gets you ready for a folkish, fast-paced, musical experience. With lyrics like "save tonight/ we'll fight the break of dawn/ come tomorrow/ tomorrow I'll be gone," make this the type of song that people want to hear when they get in a "seize the day" sort of mood. "Save Tonight" is definitely a classic that you will prob­ably still be hearing every so often for years to come. 
The best part about the rest of the album is the diverse nature of Eagle-Eye Cherry's music. While listening to the CD I was reminded at times of Ben Harper, Ani DiFranco. Lisa Loeb, Stone Temple Pilots, Dave Matthews Band, Jimi Hendrix, the Barenaked Ladies. Blues Traveler, Depeche Mode, the Grateful Dead, Garbage and even some country music. 
The messages also vary from pleas to get love, to get rid of love and to stop using drugs. The clarity of lyrics make the CD a fairly easy listen because at least you know what the song is about. Superior to the vocals, however, is the wide range of talent that is demonstrated in twangy guitar beats, great bass, interesting drum solos, and various other instruments. 
Desireless does have its share of f1aws, though. It is not really a solid CD all of the way through. For the most part the best stuff is pretty much finished after track six. The lyrics are also in many eases the reason that the CD could be con­sidered corny at many points. Many people will find themselves feeling sick to their stomach while listening to "When Mermaids Cry." The CD does not really flow through well. 
I liked this CD and would probably buy it, but you must keep in mind a couple of things. First of all, "Save Tonight" is the best song by far and is also different from many of the other songs on the album. 
Desireless is very diverse musically and has a couple of good tracks, but do not expect to see any Grammy's in Eagle-Eye Cherry's future. 
Todd Callais 


Eagle-Eye Cherry 
Desireless 
Sony Music 
*** (best out of five) 

8Ju~ 
( 
O THE 

Wednesday, September 16, 1998 page 15
BSERVER 


albtJin review 



T
his year has lwen great f'or Killah Prir,st. Laun!:hing a stu:cessf'ul solo album in tho spring, hn proved his mastP.I'y of tlw microphone. Less. than hall' a year latr,r, hn has returried as thn guiding lyrical pillar behind Sunz of' Man. Along with 60 Second Assassin. llnll Hazah and Prodigal Sunn, Kl' has created a lasting testament to the trun path. 
Thn message behind "The Last Shall Be First" is only slightly less confounding than thn spelling of its members' handles. The main thrust run­ning through tlw album is an advocation of a peculiarly mystic blend of rap culture with ancinnt Judaic and Christian tradition. Where Killa Priest's solo effort established many of the basic tmwts of this hybrid faith, the Sunz discuss how thorn faith intera!:ts with the world around them. Present throughout the album is a sense of paranoia and suspicion difficult to parallel. In the album's intro we are warned "You got your gun? Cock it euz Illuminati is watchin."' Things only get better from there. 
The album starts to pick up pace with the fourth track, Flaming Swords, without question the album's premier song. The four MCs work their craft above a thick piano and horn mix pro­vided by producer True Master. Flaming Swords tells thn history of the world through the grisly eyes of a 'soldier in the army of the Lord.' Illuminating in great detail the few moments before the death of a non-believer. 
The album's lirst single. Shining Star fnaturns production by Wydnf' .IPan of Hefugee Camp and Wu-Tang MC 01' llirty Bastard. Tlw track also features backup by Earth Wind and Fin~ who performed tho original Shining Star more than tw!mty yoars ago. Wycld .Jean doesn't haw pro­duction skills to match 4th Disciple or True Mast<)r, but great mixing between Earth Wind and Fire and the four MC:s and phenomenal mp­ping make the track a wimwr. As the album pro­gresses, the Sunz explore different styles sup­ported by the five producers behind the album. Both 4th Disciple and True Master explore a nnw sound whieh giv!lS the album a very progressive sound. 
The Last Shall Be First has been more than four years in the making and the time and dedi­cation shows through. From start to finish. this album is rife with original beats and lyrical styles. With so many Wu-Tang albums currently on the market, Sunz of Man is one· that can be trusted to entertain and if' the listener tunes their mental radio well enough, possibly illuminat!~. 
Stuart Smith 
concert review 

Blessid art thy band 
F
ans of all ages gatlwn~d at Saint Mary's ()'Laughlin Auditorium on Saturday night to hear the sounds of Blessid Union of Souls. The group took the stage at X: I!i and played for an hour and 15 minutes. Included in the line-up Saturday were songs from their 1995 album, /lome, and their 1997 self­lit.INI album. 
Tl11~ band began with "Scerws from a Coffee House (You'll Always Be Mine)" and nnd!~d with the popular "I Wanna Be Tlwre." In all they played 10 songs. in addition to two enwrns, "l'ean~ and Love" and "Oh Virginia." 
"I was !~xdted wlwn the band canw back on and played "Oh Virginia." It's such a fun song"said to junior Saint Mary's College student Brigid Byrne. Notre Dame frnshman Christina Castrillo add!)d, "I know all of' their songs and I loved the con­cert." 
Keyboard player C.l'. Hoth !~ntertainnd the crowd not only with his llashy purple pants hut also with his harmonica-playing. Vocalist Eliot Sloan helped get the crowd going with his movnnumts all over the stage and interacting with the other members of tlw bane!. The group is comprisml of vocalist Eliot Sloan, guitarist Jp('f Pence, dntmmer I•:ddi!) llmlgns, bass player Tony Clark and keyboard/harmoniea player signed autographs and talked to those who had waited to meet them. They sat down and answered a few questions, one of them being where they got their name. Blessid Union of Souls refers to an episode on the long running series MASH in which Frank Burns is talking to "Hotlips" Margaret lloulihan and tells her they can become a "blessed union of souls". Personal artistic influenees vary among the band. C.P. looks to musicians like Frank Zappa while Jeff admires bands like Aerosmith. Eddie likes motown and Tony likes Pink Floyd. Eliot prefers early Elton John and Freddy Mercury. One of the highlights to their careers so far is the 1996 tour with Mike and the Mechanies. 
As far as the rest of the year goes, the band plans to focus on the release of their third album, not yet titled. Their intended release date is sometime before February of next year. They think that their second album was dono "under the gun" and they want to take their time with this one. Bassist Tony Clark concluded the conver­sation, by saying, "The audience was small and mighty, very receptive. The way we like it. We hopn that we'll be asked back." 
C.l'. Hoth. Tlw band is very appreciative of tlwir fans. They came out after the show and 
Sarah Magness 
page 16 The Observer· SPORTS 
.... • AUSTRAUhN (h.YMPICS 
IOC debates drug crackdowns 
Associated Press "The only time an athlete would ever find themselves in prison is if they had a commer­SEOUL, South Korea cial or traffickable amount of drugs." 
Australian Olympic officials are taking a Coates denied that his proposals, hard-line approach to drugs in sports -announced last month in Australia, called for tougher. in some ways. than the International two-year jail terms for athletes caught using Olympic Committee. steroids. 
A highly placed member of the IOC suggests He said he was pushing for Australian laws it's tough enough to scare away athletes from to be changed so that penalties for "hard international events in that country. sports drugs" were as strict as those for nar­
But John Coates, president of the Australian cotics. Olympic Committee, refutes the suggestion by Possession or personal use of individual IOC executive board member Jacques Rogge doses of performance-enhancing drugs could that international sports organizations would result in criminal action, but only in fines, not refuse to stage events in Australia if athletes jail, Coates said. could face jail for doping offenses. Rogge said Tuesday he was happy with 
"I don't think it's going to cost us," Coates Coates' clarification that jail would apply only said Tuesday. "A number of people could say to traffickers. the reverse: We are selecting a country that is IOC vice president Dick Pound of Canada doing everything possible to make it a clean said board members were eager to hear event." Coates' explanation. 
The two Olympic representatives made their "The first impression conveyed to us sug­feelings known during an executive confer­gested a rather scorched-earth policy which ence. Olympic officials are in Seoul to discuss I'm sure he did not have in mind and I hope preparations for a world anti-drug conference he didn't," Pound said. to be held at Lausanne, Switzerland, Feb. 2-4. "1. for one, do not want to see sports compe­
The four-day conference, called in the wake titions run by the police and I don't want to of the drug scandals that marred the Tour de see athletes who were selected for doping France, will finalize plans for the creation of control led away by police." a special Olympic agency to coordinate drug­At Sydney, any athlete testing positive for testing throughout the world. drugs would be subjected to existing IOC 
On Tuesday. the Australian Olympic com­rules, including disqualification from the mittee said that athletes using performance­games. However, an Olympic athlete involved enhancing drugs at the Sydney Olympics will in supplying or selling drugs to others could face criminal fines and would be jailed only if face criminal prosecution. they were caught trafficking. "If there are international athletes, coaches 
Before Tuesday's decision, Australian or other officials who are in possession of Olympic officials were at odds with the IOC, drugs in a commercial quantity or traffickable which had opposed any criminal action amount then they ought be subject to these against drug cheats. stricter laws," Coates said. 
The IOC insisted that only traffickers and Coates also said he wants the Australian dealers should be prosecuted, while athletes government to ban two popular performance­should be sanctioned by sports bodies alone. enhancing drugs -EPO and DHEA. EPO, an 
"At no time have I proposed that athletes endurance-boosting hormone, was at the cen­who test positive for drugs should go to jail," ter of the scandal at this summer's Tour de Coates said. France. DHEA is an anabolic steroid. 
---.,~------------­
Wednesday, September 16, 1998 


WANTED COACHES:ELEMENTARY Mentor/tutor wanted for 14 yr. old BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT-NO FOOTBALL TICKETS DO YOU LIKE TO PLAY SNOOK­
NOTICES 

BOYS+GIRLS SOCCER,VOLLEY-hearing-impatred girl. She wears BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM-271-1526 ER? (just for fun, of course). Call 
BALL,BASKETBALL hearing aids & reads lips. Would PUS. 683-9856, 6PM to 10PM NEED A JOB? The Food responsible,dependable,students or prefer female hearing-impaired 219-277-6832. I need BC tix. Please call Tim at 4­Service Support Facility is looking grads to coach 5th-6th grade or 7-tutor/mentor, but will consider all. 4859. hi mark. thanks for doing graphics. for student employees 8th grade teams.AII seasons open Call 272-8235 or email-BED AND BREAKFAST, FOOT-it makes me much calmer when you Flexible hours to fit your schedule 6 Sept-Oct;Nov-Dec;Jan-Mar for buslink@sprynet.com. BALL WEEKENDS,NEAR CAM-are here.:) AM to midnight. $5.95/hr. Call 1-south side elementary school,locat-PUS. NO Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and 5417 MWF b/w 2-4 or T/Th b/w ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miami 219-277-6832. Individual Game Tickets. GA-only mk-i love you. JUSt so you know. 11-1. Street.Must be available for prac-Tutor for home-schooled, high 674-7645 love, mac. 
!tees Mon-Thurs from 1:30-2:30 or school semor. Subjects-Govt, 3 bdrm duplex, stove, refrig, THE COPY SHOP 2:15-3: 15.Game schedule varies Econ, Eng grammer & comp. Prefer wid. $200/ea. or $600/mo. + utili-NO Football Tickets Needed. diane-how's your TWITCH today? LaFortune Student Center with games beginning after school male tutor, but will consider all. ties. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 We're Open A Lot!!I at 4:00-6:00 p.m. Paid position.Call Student can come to you 503 N.Eddy hope its not fatal. Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midmght 291-4200 to apply. days/evenings.Call 272-8235 or 273-8332 NO FOOTBALL TIX Fri: 7:30am -7:0Q pm email-buslink@ sprynet.com. FOR SALE actually, i do. 
Sat: Noon -6:00 pm DUNGARVIN INDIANA OFFERS A AM 232-2378 Sun: Noon -Mtdnight TREMENDOUS OPPORTUNITY NO Prof and spouse seeking turn. BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY PM 288-2726 cause then i'd have a single. When you need copies, TO SUPPLEMENT YOUR INCOME place, Nov-Dec '98;near campus info: we're open! We are an organization committed pre!.Tel/fax 403-885-http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg Needed:Two BC tickets.Willing to hee hee. 
to responding to the choices of pee-4136,D.Bergen 219-291-7153. buy OR trade EITHER two Purdue 
pie with developmental disabilities, or two Stanford tix. Simo-Early Spring Break and respecting those choices.We 913 LAWRENCE Call617-248-7046 Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 do this by providing habilitation VOLUNTEERS NEEDED 3 BED GARAGE BASEMENT Hook it up. Days $279!1ncludes most meals! training and respite care.We offer a LARGE YO WALK TO CAMPUS Always buying and selling N D foot-Awesome unique training program designed The Early Childhood Development 575 MO 500 DEP. ball tickets. 289-8048 Brent and Uncle Mark-Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From for compliance and quality.We will Center, located at Saint Mary's FACULTY OR STAFF Florida!Cancun & Jamaica train all of those who have the heart College and the University of Notre 232-2595 Good luck with the pact. Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties and desire for this type of social Dame, is looking for volunteers who Need 5 Purdue GAs $3391Panama City Room With service,a nd meet the minimum enjoy young children. If you would Call x3501 Eric :)
FOR SALE
Kitchen,7 Free Parties entry requirements. be interested in spending 2 hours a $129!Daytona Room With Kitchen week reading children's books, I need 1 Navy Tix Love, Heather and Mark. $149!1998 BBB Award We have a service site near you, building with blocks, and singing '88 VW Jetta, black, 4-door, 634-1841 Winner!springbreaktravel.com and offer a variety of schedules songs with children, please call sunroof, cassette, 5-speed, Hey Hiltz-oops, I mean, Young 1-800-678-6386 which may accomodate a student's Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC-120K, $2,000. Call287-5084 I need 2 tickets (GA or student) for Harry Garay. Nice mllkshake. Nice 
schedule favorably.Our positions SMC) or Thayer Kramer at 631-Stanford (Oct. 2) for my baby broth-milk. Shake! start at $8.50 per hour and there 3344 AMERICARD PREPAID PHONE er and his friend (a prospective). If
WANTED 

are many benefit options. (ECDC-ND). Please join our fun CARDS you can help me, please call 4­filled days. $20 -198 min. 0562. Ask for Michelle. Kev and MB -Thanks for coming Dungarvin has career options within Call 258-4805. by! Sorry I missed you. Well, actual-ABSOLUTE SPRING BREAK... the company, as we provide ser-ly I'm relieved....
FOR RENT
"TAKE 2" vices throughout the U.S.II you BIKE & U-LOCK Need 2 Stanford GAs 2 FREE TRIPS ON ONLY 15 would like more information,call our 1Ospd, gd shape Call Brad x4973 SALES and... EARN $$$$. Employment lnfoline at 888-297-ROOMS FOR RENT IN PRIVATE Both: $50/Best Meat and You: Partners in Jamaica,Cancun,Bahamas,Florida, 8582. HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEK· 257-1783 Freedom. Padre! Lowest prices! Free ENDS OR ND-SMC EVENTS. Have two LSU GA's.Would like to Meals, Parties & Drinks. SOCCER REFEREES-needed for CALL trade for two Purdue GA's.Call 1­..Limited Offer••. 1800-426-south stde elementary school,locat-243-0658. 800-324-2653 x4679. Mmmm, 64 slices of American 771 O/www.sunsplashtours.com ed near Scottsdale Mall on Miamt TICKETS Cheese... 
Street.$20.00 per game to qualified 1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR I Need ASU TIX Acoustic guitar wanted. Looking for refs.Call 291-4200 CAMPUS. AVAIL. NOW I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME 243-2934 one to start to learn with. Please GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 GAMES.272-6306 64... 
call x2276 I'm looking for 2 "Irish Comfort" t-
PERSONAL
shirts for me and my dad. If you sell That Pretty Place, Bed and TICKETMART Inc 
TRUMPET, SAX, ELEC.GUITAFW them or have a few extra, please Breakfast Inn has space available BUY-SELL-TRADE 63..... AND BASS PLAYERS FOR NO help me out. Call Michelle at 4-for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms Notre Dame Football Tickets SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! 
SHENANIGANS BAND. ONLY @ 0562. with private baths,$80-258-1111 Cancun,Jamaica,Mazatlan,& 1 HR/WK! SPRING TOUR AND $115,Middlebury,30 miles from No student tickets please S.Padre.Early bird savings until 62..... 
MANY OTHER FUN EXPERl-Tutor for IUSB college soph campus.Toll Road,Exit #107,1-800-Oct. 31st.America's best prices and 
ENCES! CALL MEGAN AT 4-2573 Physics & calculus. Student likes to 418-9487. packages.Campus sales reps want-We now accept flex points! work ahead and can come to you. FOR SALE ed.Earn free trips+ cash. Female Grad student looking for Call 272-8235 or email-ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL TICKETS 1.800.SURFS.UP Welcome back, Tony! Rmmt. Castle Point Apt rent & exps buslink@ sprynet.com. ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE 271-9412 www.studentexpress.com aprox 325 mo. 277-3664 TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. Ali -don't worry about a thing. 
Wednesday, September 16, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• Nfl 
-
With Rice and Young back, 49ers are golden again 
Associated Press 
SANTA CI.AI{A, Calif'. 
With Stev1~ Young lwalthy and .Jnrry Hicn bar.k. the San Franrisco 41)cH·s hav1~ mturnml to thPir roots in snnsational fashion. 
Young is off to tho bnst two­gamn start of his 14-year rar!'Pr. c;arrison llnarst is lnading tlw )paguP in rushing. And af'tPr missing most of last st~ason with two knen injurins, Hirt• has rnturnnd to hncome yet anotlwr f'or·cn in San Francisco's o!Tnnsivn array. 
Six 41)Prs playnrs scored touchdowns in Monday night's 4~-1 0 win at Washington. and Hiee. the NFL's career touch­down leader. wasn't even among them, though his 57­yard reeoption set up a score. 
"We've got so many weapons. I don't know how you ean stop us," guard Kevin Gogan said. "I guess I don't havn to worry about it." 
The only concern might be knoping everybody happy. bocausn there's only one ball to go around. 
San Francisco {2-0) rolled up ~04 yards in o!Tnnse against Washington (0-2), a week after gaining 557 yards in a 36-30 ovnrtime victory ovnr the New York .Jets. It's tho first time sineP IIJ(JI tlw 41Jers have sur-

University of Notre Dame International Study Program 
in 


Information Meeting with Professor Hannelore Weber 
THURSDAY SEPTEMBER 17, 
4:30 PM 120 DEBARTOLO 
1998 

passed 500 yards in successive games. 
"All I can say is whatever teams are going to give us is what we're going to take," said Hearst. who rushed for 138 yards and a touchdown Monday night to boost his league-leading total to 325. 
San Francisco's wide-open attack is a ref1eetion of coach Stove Mariueci's return to a basic tenet of the West Coast offense -passing first to set up the run. 
"W11've got our offense back," Young said. who has thrown for 666 yards and six touch­downs in the first two games. 
San Franeiseo is averaging 41 points and 531 yards in o!Tnnse so far. up from aver­ag11s of 23 points and 319 yards last season. when the 49ers ran more than they passed. They finished 12th in offense after being at or near the top for the last decade. 
Mariueei favored the more conservative approach because he wanted to protect a concus­sion-prone Young and take pressure off wideouts Terrell Owens and J . .J. Stokes in the absence of Hice. 
Mariucci says he can be more daring now because Young is in good health and he's backed up by Ty Detmer, a former starter in Philadelphia. In addition, Owens and Stokes gained valu­able experience and Rice is 

quickly regaining his form. 
So San Francisco is using three wideouts and fullback plenty of three-wide receiver Marc Edwards tied for the sets in which Hice, Owens and team lead with four catches Stokes are on the field at the apiece. In addition, the multi­same. receiver formation has spread 
Against Washington, the out opposing defenses, opening 
running lanes for Hearst. 
"We just felt we could do anything we wanted to do," said Owens. who had a 20-yard touchdown eatch Monday night. 
SENIOR PORTRAITS!!! 

Haven't had your senior portrait taken? Hurry to LaFortune. Go to Room 108. You can still sign up. The last day for portraits is Friday, September 25. 
·­
So sign up now to get an appointment. Sign up between 9:00 and 5:00 every day. Wednesday 12:00-8:00. Questions Calll-7524 

Sorry, if you haven't had your portrait taken by Friday of next week, you can't be in your senior yearbook. 
.. ... 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
• COllEGE fotHSALL 
Tennessee working to end Florida winning streak 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE. Tenn. 

There'll be no drastic mea­sures taken by coach Phillip Fulmer to end Tennessee's five­game losing streak against Florida. 
''I'm not going to stand on my head and eat bugs and shave my hair or anything like that." Fulmer said as the sixth-ranked Volunteers (1-0) prepared for their annual Southeastern Conference showdown against the second-ranked Gators (2-0). 
Any of those might be tempt­ing options for a coach who is 54-6 against the rest of the world but just 1-5 against Steve Spurrier's Gators. but Fulmer believes in treating all games alike. 
Fulmer's formula has worked against Alabama. the Vols' nemesis before the emergence 
of Florida, but so far it hasn't been too helpful against the Gators. 
"1 think it's really important for us to get over this hurdle of Florida," Fulmer admitted. "We're in the same division, and all the consequences puts a spe­cial emphasis on this game. 
Tennessee last year and Florida in 1992 proved it is pos­sible for the loser of this game to win the SEC Eastern Division title. But that requires at least two subsequent losses by the game winner and an undefeated run through the rest of the league by the loser, and nobody wants to count on that happen­ing. 
As was the case during Alabama's nine-year non-losing streak against the Vols (there was one tie), Fulmer gets asked every year if the Gators simply have Tennessee's number, if the 
, 
American Heart ~ Association...~ 
Fog/'11/I'IQH#a::;::: 
ONE OF THESE CAN CHANGE A THOUSAND LIVES 
SUPPORT MEDICAL RESEARCH 
Need Cash?? $25.00 Today with and a student I.D. 
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. "'(ou choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 

Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
Unl'let~~ llbfar~ 
of Nmre Dame'iF 

Web of Science Trial. ..until Sept 29, 1998!! 
Try out the lSI Citation Indexes on the Web Premier research tool for all disciplines 
http:/lwww.nd.edu/-ndlibs See "Spotlight" for Web of Science link 


Vols are too psyched out to play Tailback Jamal Lewis was still well. so green last year that he car­
There are differences in the ried the ball only five times for Tennessee team that will play 11 yards. He has since gained Saturday in Knoxville and the 1.442 yards. He may not add one that lost 33-20 a year ago in anything to that total against the Gainesville. Gators. but it's a safe bet he'll get more than five chances to try. 
As successful as Manning was in his career at Tennessee, he never led the Vols to victory over Florida. Now it's Tee Martin's turn to try. 

Tonight 

"Justice in The Global Economy: A Worker Perspective: 
George Becker 
President, United Steelworkers of America 
21st Annual LLOYD MC BRIDE Memorial Lecture 
University of Notre Dame Room 102 -DeBartolo Hall Wednesday, September 16, 1998 8:00pm 
Campus Information: 631-6213 
Co-Sponsored by the United Steelworkers of America, 

the Higgins Labor Research Center, and the Department of Economics-University of Notre Dame 
""""""""~~~I:.II:Jr:!.lr:!J.@]
I I
A WEEKEND IN CANADA 
I sTRiitilRD I
ITHEATRE FESTIVALI 
~  (Sept. 18-20)  ~  
~  The Package:  ~  
~  • Round Trip Transportation  ~  
~  from Campus to Stratford, Ontario  ~  
~  • 2 nights at the Elegant Victorian Inn  ~  
~  on the Park (Breakfast included)  ~  
~ I  • Top price Tickets to THREE MAJOR PRODUCTIONS:  ~ ~  
~ III  The Plays: MucH Ano ABOUT NoTHING THE MAN OF LA MANCHA THE MISER  ~ I ~I  
~ ~  Two GENTLEMEN OF VERONA Total Cost per person: $235.00 !  ~I  
~  ~  
~  ~  
~  ONLY TEN PLACES REMAINING!  ~  
~ ~  Order by September 16 Call at once! 631-7226 I 631-5069  ~ I  

1-------------------@l.@] 

Wednesday, September 16, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• r-..mA 
Jordan takes centerstage in a court of law over film 
Associalcd Press 
ClllCAGO 

!loth sid()S in the Michael .Jordan law­suit accused thn otlwr Tuesday of break­ing promises n~garding a movin that was to haV() featured "When you make a promise and you eommit to do something, you must honor that promise," Dean Diekin, the plaintill"s lawyer, told jurors during opening statnments in Cook County Circuit Court. 
.Jordan sat at tlw defense table Tuesday, using a back entrance to the courtroom to avoid reporters and onlookers. He is to testify n11xt week in a case expected to last about a month. 
The 1993 lawsuit liled by Heaven Corp. accuses Jordan of backing out of the film "I leaven is a Playground" after signing a 1988 contract guaranteeing him $350,000 plus 5 percent of the film's profits. 
Jordan's lawyer, Prederick Sperling, said his client never refused to appear and the contract was a preliminary agree­ment that was not legally binding. lie added that the producers knowingly mis­led .Jordan about financing and missed a deadline in that regard. Jordan has coun­tersued, seeking $4 million. 
Sperling said producers Brian Pried and Keith Bank threatened Jordan with "high­profile, destructive legal action" and were now making good on that threat. 
Sperling charged Heaven Corp. tried to get more money by waiting to sue until after the Bulls had won two champi­onships and Jordan was established as a superstar, rather than bring it when Jordan was less well-known. 
The movie, with former Loyola Marymount basketball standout Bo 
Kimble assuming Jordan's role, made $168,000 at the box ollice. 
Sperling pointed out that Jordan was to appear in about 12 minutes of a 104­minute film that was widely panned by critics. 
Heaven Corp. is seeking $16 million to $20 million in damages, which it says rep­resents the profit it would have made had Jordan appeared. 
Dickie portrayed Jordan's agent David Falk as manipulating Jordan. whose fame was growing during the time Fried and Bank were trying to make the movie. 



13.99 CD Only 
PLASTIKMAN 
Consumed 
NOVA/MUTE 





13.99 CD/9.99Cass. 
DISHWALLA And You T11ink You Know Wl181 Life :S Al10ut 
A&M 

12.99 CD/9.99Cass. 13.99 CD/9.99Cass. 
THE FLYS ESTHERO 
Holtday Miln Breat/1 From Anomer 
TRAUMA WORK 
HeY C~~!~!~~~~~wl 
(Yes 1reshmen. ina s 
. sept. 22 & 23 are ollege Appreciation oays.
C 

t Stu 00 13.99 CD/9.99Cass. 
diSCOUntS, a 'Y JULIANA HATFIELD 
Bed 

PRIORITY ZOE 
All product shown at everyday low prices. 
MEoii•bPoLAV®
Sale ends Seplember 26. 



Your Entertainment Superstore 
Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka (219) 271-0696 


page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
• MAJDH LEAG!Jf BASEBALL
-
Boston snaps losing skid against slumping Yanks 



":Jhe Church cannot prepare /or the new millennium 
• 

tn 
other wa'i than in the J/o/'1 Spirit " 
-Pope John Paul II 

In response to the Holy Father's invitation to 
the universal church, join us Wednesday 
evenings this fall as we come together in prayer 
and study in order to grow in holiness under the 
guidance of the Holy ~pirit. 
PREJEHT ... 

"THE ~EVEH 61fT~ Of THE HOLY ~PIRIT' 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

For all rookie catcher Jason Varitek's early problems catching Tim Wakefield's knuckleball, he had no trouble handling Yankee pitching. 
Varitek homered twice and drove in a career-high five runs and Wakefield took a shutout into the seventh Tuesday night as the Red Sox snapped a three­game losing streak with a 9-4 win over New York. 
The victory, only Boston's third in 12 games, enabled the Red Sox to slow their September swoon and open a four-game lead over Toronto in the AL wild-card race. The Blue Jays lost 7-5 in Cleveland. 
Meanwhile, New York, which gave rookie pitcher Mike Jerzembeck (0-1) his first major league start in order to give their starters an extra days' rest, dropped to 6-9 in their last 15. The Yankees need to go 8-5 in their final 13 games to set the AL record for wins in a season. 
Scott Brosius hit a three-run homer and Bernie Williams had a solo shot for New York. 
Wakefield (16-8) baffled the Yankees with his knuckler, which seemed to dance more than usual on an oppres­sively muggy night, for 6 1-3 innings. The right-hander, who had lost three straight starts with a fat 11.57 ERA, allowed only three hits before the Yankees touched him for four hits and three runs-Brosius' 18th homer-in the seventh. 
Varitek's night didn't get off to such a great start. He was charged with two passed balls in the first inning as he tried to follow Wakefield's bobbing pitches. llis second one, put runners on second and third with two outs, but Wakefield dodged trouble by getting Tino Martinez to fly out. 
But things improved quickly for Varitek in Boston's second. 
Nomar Garciaparra led off with a sin­gle and with two outs, Jerzembeck walked Damon Buford. Varitck fol­lowed by ripping a 1-1 pitch into the seats in right for his sixth homer to make it 3-0. 
The Red Sox got some help from Jerzembeck, a 26-year-old right-han­der from Queens, N.Y., in the third. Darren Bragg singled, took second on a wild pitch and came home on John Valentin's single. After a fielder's choice, a balk moved Valentin to third and Jerzembeck was done for the night when he walked Garciaparra. 
Mike Buddie came on and Mike Stanley hit a sacrifice fly to give Wakefield a five-run cushion. 
Varitek followed a leadoff single by Buford in the fourth with a shot off the facing off the upper deck in right for his first multihomer game and a 7-0 lead. Mo Vaughn hit a two-run single in the seventh off Mike Stanton. 
Jerzembeck, who made his major league debut in relief last week, had a forgetful first start, allowing five runs and four hits in 2 1-3 innings. 
Cleveland 7, Toronto 5 
Manny Ramirez hit three homers for his first 40-homer season and drove in five runs Tuesday night as the Cleveland Indians moved closer to the AL Central title by beating the Toronto Blue Jays 7-5. 
Ramirez homered in consecutive at­bats in third, fifth and seventh, becom­ing the sixth Indians player to hit 40 homers in a season. Ramirez, who didn't bat again, joined Albert Belle, Rocky Colavito, AI Rosen, Jim Thome and Hal Trosky. 
He also dealt another blow to the Blue Jays' hopes in the AL wild-card chase. Toronto, which dropped four games behind Boston, lost its second straight after winning 14 of 16. 
Cleveland won its third straight and 

?~
!,;.. 
7-Bpm 
in the hhtoric 
l06 CHAPEL 
SFP1:16 
Sept. 30 Oct. 7 Oct. 28 Nov. 4 Nov. 11 Nov. 18 

·~.,-~;,(i':"i<'li.ifi!:K~;:'&: .11t,, .,, 
fEAR Of THf lORD 
Coumel Knowledge fortitude Piety Undentanding 
Wi~dom 

fourth in six games, reducing its magic number to two. The defending AL champions would clinch a tie for the division title with their next victory or the next loss by the Chicago White Sox. 
Ramirez hit his first two homers off Dave Stich (1-2), pitching in Cleveland for the first time since pitching a no­hitter against the Indians on Sept. 2, 1990 at Cleveland Municipal Stadium. Back then, Jacobs Field was a parking lot, the Indians were a laughing stock and Ramirez was a high school student. 
This time, in the third start of his comeback at age 41, Stieb allowed six runs -five earned -and nine hits in 4 2-3 innings. He walked one and struck out two. 
Ramirez, drafted by the Indians nine months after Stieb's no-hitter, hit a solo homer to right in the third and a two­run shot to left in the fifth that gave the Indians a 6-4 lead. His 40th, a solo shot off Paul Quantrill in the seventh, made it 7-5. 
With an RBI groundout in the first, Ramirez increased his team-high total to 129 RBis -fourth in the AL behind Juan Gonzalez, Belle and Ken Griffey Jr. It was Ramirez's first three-homer game and 12th multihomer game ­half of them this season. 
Chad Ogea (5-3) allowed one run in three innings in relief of Bartolo Colon, ineffective in his first start since Sept. 
2. The Indians had hoped 12 days' rest would solve Colon's second-half woes, but he allowed four runs and six hits in four innings. 
Colon is 4-4 with a 6.12 ERA since the All-Star break, allowing 90 hits in 67 2-3 innings. Kevin Witt, represent­ing the tying run against Doug Jones, flied to the wall in center in his first major-league at-bat in the ninth. Paul Assenmacher got the last out for his second save. 
Ramirez's homers traveled an esti­mated 1 ,222 feet combined -the first and last exceeding 400 feet. His first 
FR. BILL WACI(, esc 
Holy Cross Seminarians 
Dean Carolyn Woo 
Fr. Mike Baxter, esc 
Fr. Bill Seetch, esc 
Prof. John Cavadini 
Ms. Chandra Johnson 
came on a hanging slider from Stieb on a full count, a 426-foot drive that tied it at 4. 
In the fifth, Ramirez hit another 3-2 pitch from Stieb for a two-run homer that gave the Indians a 6-4 lead. He hit a 1-2 pitch from Paul Quantrill in the seventh for a solo homer that made it 7-5. 
Atlanta 3, Philadelphia 0 

Kevin Millwood, making the most of what was planned as his final start of 1998, pitched seven shutout innings Tuesday night and the Atlanta Braves beat the Philadelphia Phillies 3-0. 
Millwood (16-8) will now move from the rotation to the bullpen as the Braves begin preparing for the playoffs. 
The Braves plan to use a four-man rotation consisting of Greg Maddux, Tom Glavine, John Smoltz and Denny Neagle in the postseason. Rookie Bruce Chen will start in Millwood's place Sunday. 
Norm Charlton pitched the ninth for his first save of the season. He blew a save chance earlier this season while with Baltimore. 
Millwood pitched out of several jams. In the sixth, the 23-year-old right-han­der struck out Bobby Estalella and pinch-hitter Marlon Anderson to strand a pair of runners. 
Tyler Green (6-11), facing a Braves lineup that included only two everyday players in Hyan Klesko and Javy Lopez, struggled for the second straight start. He gave up all three runs in the third inning. 
With two outs and runners on first and third, Green walked Greg Colbrunn to load the bases. Green then issued a four-pitch walk to Klesko, who was hit­ting .197 with runners in scoring posi­tion with two outs. 
A third straight walk to Lopez and an RBI single by Gerald Williams made it 3-0. 


-
University of Notre Dame 
Career Fair 

Thursday, September 17th 
Presentation
CREDIT 

FIRST Tuesday, September 22nd, 5:30pm
BOSTON University Club www.csfb.com 
SUISSE 

---~--------~ ~-~-----~­
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
-
• MAJOH LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Astros beat late Mets' rally 
': ·. :. . .; .~ 

Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

for the second straight night, the New York Mets overcame a two-run deficit in the ninth inning. 
This time, the Houston Astros came back to win. Derek Bell hit a leadoff home run in the 12th off Jeff Tam. and the Astros dampened the Mets' wild-card run with a 6-5 victo­ry Tuesday in the first game of a doubleheader. 
New York. which began the day tied with Chicago for the NL wild-card lead, tied it in the ninth on Carlos Baerga's two­run homer off Scott Elarton. 

140-Vear-Oid ~ Seeks Fresh Thinking. 

140-year-old company is looking for a self­motivated individual to work with businesses and high net-worth people. Here is the opportunity to enjoy the control and unlimited earning potential that comes with working for yourself along with the satisfaction of helping others to secure their financial future. We offer extensive training and support. Products include annuities, life insurance, and disability income insur­ance, for use in eslale planning, business planning, and pension and profit sharing plans. For more information, stop by our booth at the COBA on September 17 and 18, 1998 for the Business Career Forum or contact joan McCarthy at the Hoopis Agency, 847/441-4304. 
~ 
The Quiet Colrflany• 
www.hoopisagency.com 

019'18 Tho Notl-..., MlMI Lifo ''"'""'• Co.. Milwou.... WI 8021·97 
Then Mets left fielder Jay Payton threw out the potential winning run in the bottom half. 
Rey Ordonez, who earlier hit his third career home run. put the 
Mets ahead 5-4 in the 11th with an RBI double off Elarton. But John Franco could not hold the edge, giving up Jeff Bagwell's 33rd home run lead­ing off the the bottom half. 
Jay Powell (7-5) pitched a scoreless 12th, striking out Brian McRae with runners on second and third to end the inning. Tam (1-1) took the loss. 
On Monday night, the Mets also trailed 4-2 in the ninth when McRae hit a two-run homer off Billy Wagner. New York went on to win 7-4 in 13 innings and tied Chicago in the NL wild-card race. 
The Astros wound up clinch­ing the NL Central title late Monday night when the Cubs lost. Bell, who entered the game in the eighth, Bagwell, Moises Alou and Craig Biggio did not start for Houston. 
Baerga's tying homer fol­lowed McRae's walk and a groundout. It was the seventh home run of the season for Baerga, who has just two homers and 15 RBis since the All-Star break. 

Houston had a chance to win in the ninth when Tim Bogar doubled off Rigo Beltran lead­ing off. Mitch Meluskey fol­lowed with a single to left, but Payton -who has come back from elbow surgery -easily threw Bogar out at home. Meluskey tried to bowl over catcher Todd Hundley, who had the ball with the runner still about 15 feet from the plate. 
Houston's Shane Reynolds, unbeaten in six starts since Aug. 14. allowed two runs and seven hits in 6 2-3 innings. New York starter Armando Reynoso, 7-1 since coming off the disabled list on July 24, gave up three runs and five hits in six innings. Dave Clark's RBI groundout put the Astros ahead in the first, but Ordonez made it 2-1 in the sec­ond against Reynolds with his third homer in career 1,324 at­bats. It was his first since he connected off Toronto's Kelvim Escobar on Sept. 2, 1997. 
Tony Eusebio's two-run dou­ble gave Houston a 3-2 lead in the fourth, and Bagwell added an RBI single in the eighth. 
. :. :. :. 

LIBRARIES TESTING NEW SERIALS CIRCULATION POLICY 
On August 24, 1998, four of the University Libraries (the Hesburgh, Life Sciences, Chemistry/Physics, and Engineering Libraries1) introduced a new circulation policy for serials. The loan period for all "circulating" periodicals, journals, and serials issued more than once a year was changed from FIVE days to TWO days. Additionally, serials are no 
,, li 
longer renewable. Annuals, however, circulate as if they were books unless they are placed on reserve. 
This policy has been designed to increase the number of individuals who can use any given periodical volume while allowing individuals to take materials to their offices and homes for overnight reading or convenient photocopying. The new loan period is being tested during the 1998-1999 academic year. 
Background: This policy change was prompted by four studies at the Notre Dame Libraries between 1994­1998. These studies revealed that patrons frequently could not find the serials they needed even though the Library owned them. Mid-semester studies documented the fact that large sequences of serials were charged out and that a high percentage of these serials were not returned until an overdue notice was sent. Additional surveys indicated that most people checked out serials in order to make photocopies --an activity which usually does not require five full days. 
A review of the literature and consultation with peer libraries support a shorter loan period. A review of 13 peer libraries shows that 10 of them limit serial circulation (from the main library) to one day or less. Related library literature suggests that shortening the loan period increases patron satisfaction by improving the fill rate for users (Buckland, U. of Lancaster, Newhouse, Lexington Public Library). 
Test Period: During 1998-1999, the Library will gather data on serials used by date, subject, and patron status and the number and nature of serial overdues. The Library will also welcome more detailed user input. Please do offer the Library your feedback. Help us to determine the circulation policy which will best meet user needs. 
Comments may be submitted on forms at any library circulation desk or via e-mail at the following address: dietl.1 @nd.edu. Phone comments are welcome at 631-7392 (Sue Dietl). Requests for special exceptions should be addressed to the Supervisor of Circulation in the lending library (Hesburgh, Engineering, Chemistry/Physics and Life Sciences). 
1This policy will not affect serials located in non-circulating collections, such as Hesburgh Reference or the Mathematics and Architecture Libraries. 
page 23 

Wednesday, September 16, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOB lEAGUE BASEBAll 
-

McGwire ends six-game drought with 63rd homer 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

It took Mark McGwirc only one at-bat to lake baek sole posses­sion of the home run record. 
McGwire. pinch-hitting in the ninth inning, hit his 63rd home run Tuesday night to move ahead of Sammy Sosa in the great race. 
McGwire ended a six-game homer drought with his solo shot off Pittsburgh reliever Jason Christiansen in St. Louis' 8-6 loss to the Pirates in the first game of a doubleheader. 
The Cardinals slugger did not start the opener as a precaution for his ailing back, and to allow more fans a chance to see him play. 
The games were sold out, but only about 10,000 fans were watching when the first game began at 5:10p.m. CDT. 
The ballpark was filled by the time McGwire, batting for leadoff hitter Delino DeShields, made his third pinch-hit appearance of the season with one out and nobody on in the ninth. On a 1-0 pitch, he hit a long drive mea­sured at 385 feet into the bleachers in left-center field. It was his sixth career pinch-hit homer. 
The homer was McGwire's first since he broke Roger Maris' record with No. 62 on Sept. 8, and restored his lead over Sosa, whose Chicago Cubs played at San Diego later Tuesday. 

McGwire had been 3-for-18, all singles, since breaking the record. 
Kevin Young's three-run home run snapped a fifth-inning tie in a game that featured six homers, two by Cardinals rookie J.D. Drew. 
Young's homer off Donovan Osborne (4-4) snapped a 2-for­35 slump. Drew connected twice, including a 421-foot drive to center in the fifth. and hit into two double plays. 
Drew's two-homer game was the first by a Cardinals rookie since Bernard Gilkey on Oct. 5, 
Earn one credit while learning 
in a city...continue the tradition 
The U r1ban JP~ lUI.nge Seminar 
The urban plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ... to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the urban plunge. 
As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, Saint Mary's and Holy Cross students. Some of these cities in the past have included: 
Albany Atlanta Brooklyn Harlem Baltimore Washington Los Angeles New Orleans 
Memphis 
Nashville Seattle 
Phoenix 

Honolulu and many more sites 
As a participant, you will join a 30 year tradition which has gained national attention and served as a model of experiential learning that has been adopted by a number of colleges and universities nationally. I Not I but the city teaches. -Socrates j 
FOR ADDITIONAL INFORMATION, CONTACT the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our wchsitc: hllp://www .nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc Application Deadline --Friday, November 6 

Atumni-Senior Club 
tJ!lJ!l& ~!il@&@&J)Y ~~~@ lDPID 
Also $3 All You Can Eat Wings!!! 
1991. 

Jose Guillen added a two-run homer in the third for the Pirates, who snapped a three­game losing streak and won for only the fourth time in 18 games. Ray Lankford had a two­run homer for the Cardinals. 
Sean Lawrence (2-1), the third Pittsburgh pitcher, allowed a run in 2 1-3 innings. Rich Loiselle got two outs for his 19th save. 
•'­

Cooperstown benefits from McGwire & Sosa 
Associated Press 
COOPERSTOWN, N.Y. 
The chase by Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa for baseball's home run record has helped rejuvenate interest in the Hall of Fame. where attendance is up for the first time in four years. 
"I think it has a lot to do with a general good feeling with baseball this year," said Ken Meifert, the Hall's director of sales. "There's a lot of good things going on." 
As of Sept. 14, more than 256,000 fans had visited the Hall of Fame, up about 7 per­cent from about 240,000 on the same date in1997. It is the first increase since the 1994-95 strike. 
"The last few days have been outstanding," Meifert said. "Since the record was broken. we've really been doing well." 
The hall's attendance record of 410,000 was set in 1989 dur­ing the its 50th anniversary. 
Commonly Unbearable. 
Dangerously Believable. 
Subsequently Fatal. 
#1 Cause of Suicide 
UNTREATED 

DE-PRE.55iON 
http://www.save.org 

page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
~~------~--------------------------------~~~~=-~~~~------------------------­
• Tmms 
-
Irish served up top preseason NCAA rankings 
Special 10 The Observer season, according to the rank­ings released by the 
Notre Dame men's and Intercollegiate Tennis wompn's tennis tl~ams have Association on Tuesday. earned preseason singles and Seniors Jennifer Hall and doubles rankings for the 98-99 Marisa Velasco and sophomore 

Senior Marisa Velasco, who finished with a 19-4 record last year, was ranked 54th in the nation by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association. 
GRAFFITI DAMCI 
time with the 
ccn~~~ ©ff n~~~ 
Wednesday, September 16 7-8:30 pm at Alumni Senior Club and $.99 pizza 
www.nd.edu/ -class99 

Michelle Dasso are ranked on the womens team while senior Brian Patterson and junior Ryan Sachire are ranked on the mens team. 
A three-time NCAA singles participant and two-time NCAA doubles participant, llall enters lwr sPnior year ranked No. 23 after earning her second All­America honor last year by teaming with Tiffany Gates to advance to thn quarterfinals of the '98 NCAA doubles champi­onship. This added to her sin­gles All-America accolades as a freshman. 
Slw is on pacP to becomn Notrn Dames all-time leader in singles wins and combined sin­gles and doubles wins. She has compiled an 87-47 singles record and ()4-36 doubles record and has anchon~d the No. 1 singles spot in Irish lineup in her three years. 
Velasco returns with a presea­son ranking of No. 54 after a junior year as one of the best No. 3 singles players in the country with a 19-4 record and a final ranking of 73. 
Her intense competitiveness and fiery play on the court has led to a 79-29 career singles record, including a 5-1 record in NCAA team competition. 
Dasso begins her sophomore year ranked 17th after bursting into collegiate tennis and into the Irish recordbooks as a fresh­man with her 40-8 singles record and 24-13 doubles record, the most singles and combined singles and doubles wins in a season in Notre Dame history. 
While being ranked as high as No. 16 during the season, Dasso won her first 20 singles dual matches and finished 14-6 against ranked opponents on her way to an NCAA singles bid. 
Dasso and Hall will team together in doubles for the first time this season and have been 
r"nla>rl Nn 1 R 

The Irish are one ol" just five schools with two singles players ranked in the top 25, joining defending NCAA champion Florida, UCLA, Georgia and Mississippi. Notre Dame also is one ofjust six schools with three singles players ranked in the top 60, joining Duke, Florida, UCLA, Georgia, Mississippi and USC. 
On the men's side, Sachire enters the season ranked eighth after finishing his sophomore year ranked 20th in the country. 
He returns for his junior year after spending the summer as one of six top American college players on the elite United States Tennis Associations All­American Summer Team. 
He became Notre Dame's first All-American since 1994 last year when he advanced to the thirrl round at the NCAA cham-pionships as one of 16 seedt~d players in the draw. 

Saehire will tPam with Patterson to form the 28th­ranked doubles duo in the pro­season rankings. 
PattHrson led the Irish in dou­bles the last years with Jakub Pietrowski as the pair qualified for the 1997 and 1998 NCAA championships. Patterson and Pietrowski were ranked as high fifth last year with a final rank­ing of No. 21. 
The Irish men's and women's tennis teams open their fall sea­sons this weekend as the women play host to the Eck Classic on Fri.-Sun, Sept. 18-20, at the Courtney Tennis Center. The mens tennis team travels to Houston, Texas, for the Rice Invitational on Fri.-Sun, Sept. 18-20. 
Come experience the Fun YOU can have working for... People Soft #20 of the 100 Best Companies to Work for in America (Fortune, 1/98)  
Where Are We Going To Be? College of Business Administration Complex When Will We Be There? September 17th & 18th What Will We Be Doing? RECRUITING YOU! Resumes are Welcome! Who Are We Looking For? MIS, CAPP, Business, & Comp. Science Majors  
NOTE: Chris Hasbrook will be giving an overview of the company at the Career Fair. Come by the booth for more INFO and TOYS!  

..·----...-­

"!lor attitudP, the way she goes about it, has really served her w1dl. ShP just gnts lwtter all the time." 
Boylan's play prnsnnts a formi­dablP rhallnnge for any team. Shn was llllP of 40 volleyball players invitPd t.o train with thu USA Volll•yhall Program this summer, only tlw most rncnnt in a long list of ar.complishnwnts for the 6-foot­1 nat.ivp of Lisle, Ill. She is also highly I'PspPetml hy 1:ollege roach­es. 
"Boylan's onn of the best sntlnrs in the country," said Colorado 1·oarh l'i'i Aiu after his team took on tlw Irish. 
"Thoir INotro Dame's! snlt<H !Boylan! dons a great joh of dis­tributing the ball," added Indiana Wednsday, September 16, 1998 
Boylan 
continued from page 28 
------=---~er-------==_.=~· 
--~~-­

coach Katie Weismiller. Boylan is focusing on team goals this season. 
"As a team, last year we made it to the sweet 16, so we want to make it further, to the top eight, and ultimately to win a national championship," said Boylan. "Priority-wise, as a sophomore, I am able to put volleyball first." 
Said Brown, "She is only a sophomore, but shn plays with incredible poise and maturity. What makos her stand out from othnr players is her work nthic, her competitiveness and her load­nrship skills." 
Looked to as a consistent leader on the team, she is also countnd on for solid play game-in and game-out. If she can continuo to dominatn play for the Irish thn rest of this season, the team should be a contender for its fourth straight Big East champi­The Obse!Ver/John Daily 
onship. 


scanable resume to: NOWS Services, Inc. Human Resources, IT Recruiter 2500 Lake Cook Road • Riverwoods, IL 60015 Fax: (847) 405-1388 Visit our Web Site at:
Novus www.novusnet.com

• SERVICES 
EOE loNFIDN 

Denise Boylan (left) has served as a vital setter tor both the Irish and national teams. 
• WAY Our !N Lr:n Flnn 
Sports facts, focus and fun 
JOHN COPPOLELLA SportS Columnisr 
Looking at the week in sports from an obscured view way out in left lield: 
• Mark McGwire and Sammy Sosa have both broken Roger Maris' single-season home run record, but my question is whether or not there should be an asterisk on these records. There was an asterisk on Maris' record because he played in 162 games while Babe Huth played in only 154 games. 
This asterisk, initiated by bas1~ball purists and propogat­ed by the baseball commission­er, stayed despite the fact that Maris, despite playing more games than Ruth, had fewer at-bats. Why would there be an asterisk on McGwire and Sosa? Pitching. 
Major league pitching has become an oxymoron, as the 
1st Annual Keough Hall Chariot Race 
Saturday, September 19th Race begins at 4:30 Free Barbeque to follow 

group of pitchers facing McGwire and Sosa is about as 
devoid  of  talent  as  the  
Backstreet Boys.  
Need  evidence?  Mark  

McGwiro hit his 61st home run off Mike Morgan, who was drafted in the mid-1970s, has a career winning percentage of about .400, and had his best years while Ken Griffey, Jr., was in elementary school. 
• More evidence? Morgan was the starting pitcher for the Chicago Cubs, a team in the heat of the playoff race, and he was the best pitcher they could put out on the mound that night. 
If these are the pitchers the Cubs have, what about teams like the Montreal Expos and Florida Marlins? 
I wouldn't worry too much about these teams, though: the Expos' Vladimir Guerrero is the best young player in the National League, and the Marlins are the league's best young team. 
In fact, the Marlins remind me a lot of the Minnesota Twins of the 1980s, in that they have a lot of good young players who play solid baseball surrounded by a superstar (Alex Gonzalez) with a manag­er patient enough to let them grow together as a team. 
• Although the Yankees World Series win was sweeter for me, the best World Series I have ever seen is the 1991 classic where the Twins defeat­ed the Atlanta Braves. 
Kirby Puckett's 11th inning home run heroics in Game 6 set up the greatest pitcher duel in World Series: .Jack Morris vs . .John Smoltz. 
• And don't look now, but 
Minnesota may have another championship heading its way. 
I'm not talking about basket­ball, where Stephon Marbury will leave Minnesota for tho Now York Knicks, or some other team that will give him Kevin Garnett money while ruining Kevin McHale's dream of a team that advances past tho second round in the play­offs. 
No, I'm referring to football. The Minnesota Vikings may have a chance to take their team to the Super Bowl, whore they -along with the Buffalo Bills -sport all-time records of 0-4. 
The receiving trio of Cris Carter. .Jake Heed, and rookie Handy Moss appear a lot like the Super Bowl-winning Washington Redskins' receiv­ing trio of Monk-Clark­Sanders, and Brad .Johnson knows how to use these guys the way Mark Hypien did. 
The only difference between the two teams is that the Vikings actually have a defense -and a good one at that. 
• 
I know it's trendy to pick the .Jaguars, as everyone from Peter King to Chris Berman has done so, but this team has always had tho heart to get within ineli(~S of the Super Bowl and now it finally has the talent to make it there. 

• 
So, there should be no asterisk by the records of McGwire and Sosa, just as then~ should have been no asterisk by Maris' record; pitching should be like it was with Morris and Smoltz; college football needs more players like McNabb and less teams like Kansas State and Kentucky. 


PEACE(ORPS 
INFORMATION SESSIONS 
Center for Social Concerns Thursday, September 17 6:00 p.m_ -7:30 p.m_ 

(800) 424-8580 
www.peacecorps.gov 

,-­

page 26 
Volleyball 
continued from page 28 
Saint Mary's scored first, but. then. Lake Forest went on a 9-:i scoring rampage. 
Neither team had consistent sPrvPs, but tlw Belles socmed unabl(• to corH·entrate. The f"inal of that ganw was 15-5 in favor of Lake Forest. 
Game No. 3 was anything but dominated by either team. Each team scored once early in thr, game. There were then eight side-outs (possession changr,s) before r,ither team scored again. 
In total. there were 38 pos­session changes. 12 lead changf's and seven times the score was tied. Both teams played with a heart and intensity down to the wire. 
Eventually, Lake Forest scored the winning point and 
__ , took tlw game 13-15. Saint Mary's looked tired in game four and Lake Forest took advantago of their drowsi­rwss. Lake Forest played with scrappy determination and took advantage of every opportunity the Belles offered. Lake Forest took an early 3­0 lead and held the lead for the rest of the game. With some help from Saint Mary's serving troubles, Lake Forest went on to win 15-6. Head coach Jennie Joyce was less than happy with the outcome of this match. "We need to be mentally tougher and make fewer errors," she said. "We missed crucial serves and made a lot of unnecessary mistakes." The Belles go on this week-

The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, September 16, 1998 
end to play two conference Joyce. "We're 0-1 in the con­games against Defiance and ference, so we want to Adrian on Friday and improve. We have to show up Saturday. to play." 
"The conference [MIAAJ is The Belles next hume game tough, so both games will is Wednesday, Sept. 23 at 7 probably be tough," said p.m. against Calvin College. 

Attention Sophomores! Get involved in 1998-1999 JPW  
The committee for this year's Junior Parents Weekend is looking for a Sophomore Chairperson. This is your chance to get involved in one of the most exciting events of Junior year. Don't let this opportu­nity pass YOU by. APPLY NOW!  
•Applications are now available in room 315 LaFortune and must be returned no later than September 25 to room 315 •If you have any questions please call Amy Seamon at x3869  

2nd Drawing
OCTOBER 23, 1998 

NOTRE DAME.
.. 
----VERSUS ---­
Includes BOSTON COLLEGE'" 
·Airfare • •Hotel Accomodations • • Local Transponation • 
SATURDAY 7~ LIVE
• Tickets to Game • 
NOV. : itivil:s 
ALUMNI STADIUM -CHESTNUT HILL, MA
Hurry in and Register Today. Go Irish!!! 




Enter to Win at Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore or The VarsitV Shop 
The Observer • TODAY page 27 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
-

Finall.l.lht· l\\u m;ult· lhl'ir \\:I~ inlullll' Notn· Danll' ~llllknl l'l'Hicr, fondl)' know as the lluddlc... 
FOXTROT 

DILBERT 
~========~==~E~============~" 

THE SAFETY AWARD 
GOES TO lED FOR HIS FIVE YE~R5 Of lNJUR.'<-FREE WOR\<.. 
&0  TH/I<.NK  YOU  FOR. IHI5  
@  ~WARD.  WITHOUT  
~  1\WI\ROS, iHERE. WOULO  
~  ()£. NO  lNCENTtVE TO  

56 Scoundrel 57 Large lizard 59 Protective fence 61 Down below 62 Prom1nent 63 Hall of Fame 
members 64 Put on a pedestal 
DOWN 
1 Nonpotable 2 Irrational distrust 3 Alternative to 
Midway 4Bump 5 --Lanka 6 Legendary 
E
• 
~ 
~ 
: BILL AMEND 
SCOTT ADAMS 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 Charitable one a Aloof 14 F1sh wh0se male hatches the 
eggs 15 Tree-held sheller 1,6 Heaven n Hard to move taln the know 19 Work of Homer 21111temper 22 Sugar source 23 Ch1ef 24 Intellectuals 26"Am -­
believe. ..?" 21 Confession maker 
29Arguable 30 Horses· sounds 32 Sourball 34 Breakfast cereal 361948 Literature 
Nobelist 40 Old hand 42 Crayola color 43 C.I.S. 
predecessor 46 Furtive one 48 Take capt1ve 49 Domain 51 Winter need 52 Price 53 Hair-styling stuff 54 Oil, pharma­
ceutically 

Gaelic hero ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
1 Not steady on the feet 


SCRUBIGASP R A S H R 0 A R E C R U S A T E ReSABLE- 
NEATCATDEN  
APPEASE ER'R V7) L T OTA.MD I N E D c A N TEAT T R E EIc A A z E· S E A T E I D E R  


aJar A T T E N D A N C E 
9 Gives special nursing care 20 Reddish-brown

~EN E•rt AU N AS 
10 Airline watchdog winter apple grp. 31 Contort 11 Blue shade 33 Israel's Golda 

A V A N ~G 0 E S ITE'A 
12 Car option 35 Fast 37 Produce new
13 Fair and square technology

rstcl K E E N)IIIIJ.I!oN'T'C
ADECENT~N~ 14 Typist's concern 
38 Partial

-A L 0 N E 
20 Sluggish 39 Was a snitch 

I NAI!!II 
23 Duped 
41 Veteran actor 25Roomy 43 Insistence 27 Supplied with 44 "It I Had a 
footwear Hammer" singer 
The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

45 Bow to 55 Swedish author Gustalsson
47 "Hot" dish 
56 Belly flop, e.g. 50 Water lilies 
58 "There you are!" 

painter 
60 Soviet Physics 52 Labor organizer Nobelist-­Chavez Landau 
Get answers to any three clues by touch·tone phone: 1-900-420· 5656 (75¢ each minute). 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Wilt Chamberlain, Kenny Rogers, Princess Margaret, Count 
Rilsie 
Happy Birthday: Minor setbacks 'hould b,· expected. Nothing will go .Kcording to plan, so be prepared to th1nl-. standing up. You'll have to watch out for individuals who may want to hold you back. It's not be the year to cut corners. Your colorful i1ature may fool some of the people you meet, but it won't fool those who are percepti\'e and watching you from afar. Be honest and true to your­self if you want to prosper. Your num· bers: 8, 12, 17, 26, 35, 44 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't rush. It's important to complete unfinished business. Take part in social acti\·ities and you'll meet intriguing mates. Travel opportunities will be present through work-related matters. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your household may be up in arms if you plan on making changes that others just can't relate to. Be careful not to offend indi\'iduals who are estab­lished in \'OUr field. 00 
GEMiNI (May 21·June 20): You will have to speak your piece. Prob­lems with your partner will be due to untruthfulness. Travel will allow you to n1eet ne\\' lovers. Love triangles must be a\·oided. 0000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Your lm·er will urset the apple cart today. Be prepareL to step back and watch for the time being. Things may not be as they appear. Get all the facts. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Love con­nections can be made. Your colorful "'•')' oi entertaining everyone will attract all sorts of different mates. Use \'OUr discrimination, or you may pick the wrong person. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Decep­tion invn\ving co-workers or employ­L'rs may put a dent in your plans. You should work on your own and avoid getting dragged into idle chatter th,lt could be incriminating 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): You may want to consider making changes regarding your residence. You need to get invoh•cd in some form of physical activity. You will be in a k<'y position to present creative projects. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You can make major advancements if you are willing to speak your mind. Career opportunities will unfold Just by utilizing your widespread knowl­edge. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 21): Do some research regarding your future intentions. You may want to look into working in foreign coun­tries or picking up additional knowl­edgL' about different governments 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22·Jan. 19): You will want to spend too much on frivolous items. This will be a good day to work at home. Look into wavs of improving your personal situation. 000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): PassionatC' encounters can bl· yours if ,-ou are willing to makt> the first rnove. You will find ,, need to tra,·el and should lx• looking into different destinations. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): y,,u will make he.1dway at work if you are creative in vour approach to business. Don't let others dramatize situations that may bring accusations. Look out ior:--Jo.l. 000 

Birthday Baby: You'll be eager to entertain right imm day on<'. Your lamil\' and friend> will welcome your company and believe in all that you profess to be able ''' do. You are a born actor and a colorful little character. You \,·ill always follow the most exciting pathway throughout your life. · 
(Nt•ed aLh·ice? Call Eugenia at 900-484·7827. Your phone compan\' will bill n•u 51.99 per minute.) 
-


Wanted: Reporters, pho-­tographers and editors. Join The Observer staff. 
The Observer 
P.O. Box Q Notre Dame, IN 46556 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
-4_ 
Name _____________________________________________ Address ________________________________________ City _______________ State ____Zip______ 
'· 

• With Jerry Rice and 
• Ryan Sachire, along 
Steve Young back in 
with three other Irish 
action for the 49ers, 
tennis players, received 
there's no stopping the 
top pre-season rankings. 
PORTS 
gold rush. 
0 THE 

Wednesday, September 16, 1998
page 28 BSERVER 


VtH ~ P/1.\f~ ~
• ::tV&.~,..... S.:. M:-......... 
Belles fall in first home tnatch Boylan leads Irish in 
By MOLLY McVOY Spons Writer 
sophomore season 
The Belles of Saint Mary's By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN honoree while playing for dropped a tough one to Lake SportS Writer Benet Academy. FOJ"est last night in their first Named GatoradP Circle of home match of the season. Notre Dame volleyball play­Champions national player of 
This brings their record to er Denise Boylan, although the year for the 1996-97, :~-S and ll-l in the confer­only a sophomore, has estab­Boylan was a real catch for t>nl'l'. Tlw Belles' 15-9, 5-15, lished herself as one of the the Fighting Irish volleyball 13-15 and 6-15 loss was premier setters in the nation. team. She made an early ver­tlwir first on the new Angela Boylan got 
,------...., bal commitment to play for Athletic Facility courts. an early Notre Dame in the spring of 
Saint Mary's was led by No. start in vol­her sophomore year, original­12, senior Agnes Bill, who leyball and ly contacting Irish coaches as recorded 13 kills, three was soon an eighth gradP.r. blocks. and 12 digs. recognized Boylan was the first Notre Freshman Angie Meyers as one of the Dame freshman to start the added 10 kills and 18 digs top young season at setter since 1988, herself. athletes in playing in all 34 matches for 
Saint Mary's dominated in the sport. Boylan the Irish. Slw averaged 12.39 the first game and won easi­The same assists per game last season, ly. skills that now make her an the third-best average in Irish 
The team PStablisln~d an asset to Notre Dame's team history. early 6-1 lead and displayed also helped her build an Slw has develcqwd into an tough defense throughout the impressive resume of both even more outstanding player entire game. national and international since coming to Notre Dame. 
Lake Forest improved as play. As a freshman, Boylan was the game went on and even She was the only player to named to the first team all­brought the score within two. be on the U.S. youth national District and Big East all-rook­
They never !Pel, though. team every year from 1994-ie team. Named to the second 
Saint Mary's had quite a 1996. serving as team captain team all-Big East. she was few nice saves in the first in 1995. In high school. she the only freshman to make~ games and Lake Forest had the opportunity to com­either the first or second seemed unable to recover pete in Japan, Mexico and team. 
from the Belles' kills which Slovakia. "The key for lwr is determi­led them to a 15-9 win. Boylan led her elub team, nation," said Notre Dame The tide turned completely Sports Performance, to two head coach Debbie Brown. in the second game, however. national titles. She was rec­ognized twice as an all-state see BOYLAN I page 25 
see VOLLEYBALL I page 26 


Petrucelli's excellence promotes women's soccer 
By BRIAN KESSLER ates of Petrucelli's soccer program; now, standout Assistant Sports Editor players like Anne Makinen, Jenny Streiffer and Jenny Heft are among the team's rising stars. 
On Sunday, the largest regular season crowd in ''I've just done my job and worked hard to bring women's college soccer history showed up to pay the best players I could find to Notre Dame," said tribute to two of the premier soccer programs in Petrucelli. the country. His commitment to winning -coupled with his 
A total of 6,024 fans packed Fetzer Field in outstanding players -has also raised attendance Chapel Hill, N.C., to watch a one-versus-two levels wherever the Irish play. showdown. as top-ranked North Carolina squared "My first and only goal is to win National 
oil' against Nu. 2 Notre Dame. Championships," said Petrucelli. "That continues 
The 5-1 outcome in favor of North Carolina to be our goal. I think growth only comes along spoke volumes about the continuing dominance of with winning. the Tar Heel program, but the final score was not "Anson [Dorrance) has been the ultimate pio­the only conclusion that could be drawn from the neer," Petrucelli continued. "He has achieved game. more success than anyone, not just on the college 
Women's soccer has grown tremendously in the level, but also on the international level." past few seasons and Notre Dame has played a Notre Dame and North Carolina, two of the win­significant role in that development. ningest programs in recent years, have helped 
"Over the course of the last few years, the qual­spearhead the growth of women's soccer at the ity of play has improved significantly," said head collegiate level. coach Chris Petrucelli. "I think the quality of ''I'm very excited," said Dorrance following his teams attracts fans because they know they are team's win over the Irish. "We put on a show for going to see a great game." these fans and that's what keeps them coming 
-
Notre Dame has been putting on a show for back." fans for more than 10 seasons now. Petrucelli has In 1997, a sellout crowd came to Alumni Field been an integral part of Notre Dame's success. to watch Notre Dame play North Carolina, and 
In his eight-plus seasons, he has boasted a 157-this year's game set a new regular season single­20-9 record and a .871 winning percentage, game attendance record on the Tar Heels' home which ranks him second among NCAA Division 1 field. women's soccer program. "Our sport has grown throughout the country," 
Following Sunday's game, Carolina head coach said Petrucelli. "It hasn't just been our teams, but Anson Dorrance spoke about Petrucelli's contri­something like 80,000 people came out to watch bution to the game. the Olympics. I think that trickles down to us and 
"Chris [Petrucelli] and I spend our lives in this helps us draw more. The growth of those teams sport," said Dorrance. "He has been one of the has helped the success of our teams." pioneers of the game and has played an impor­A North Carolina-Notre Dame rematch in the tant role in the growth ofwomnn's soccer." Final Four could lie somewhere down the road. If 
Petrucelli has recruited and developed some of so, fans will be sure to !lock to Greensboro, N.C., the world's best players. Kate Sobrero, Cindy to watch two of the most exciting teams in Daws and Holly Manthei are much-lauded gradu-women's sports compete at the highest levnl. 

vs Purdue Volleyball
vs. New Hampshire Q .•.
September 26, I :30 p.m. at Defiance College 
Friday, 5 p.m. $ '!!,. Friday, 6:30p.m. 
~ q.(C
SPORTS 

vs. Rutgers 
-Cross Coumry
ATA 
\~ 

Friday, 7:30p.m. 
at National Catholic Soccer 
··:;:;., 

at Rutgers 1 nvirarional vs. Kalamazoo College 
<n, S(L
Friday, 7 p.m . Friday, 3:30p.m. Today, 4 p.m. 
GLANCE 
... .._ 




