
---------------------~ 
•See special election supplement for The Platforms, the WILLIAMS, REISING WIN debate coverage and analysis of this year's 
People, the Issues OBSERVER ENDORSEMENT 
student government election race. 
• See story on page 1 ofelection supplement • See supplement, page 3-6 



Monday, February 9, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 87 
THE IND.EPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND senior dies in COBA computer cluster 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY News Writer 

Notre Dame senior Justin Brumbaugh suffered a fatal seizure at 3:20 p.m. Sunday in the College of Business Administration computer cluster. 
Brumbaugh, a 21-year-old senior business major, 
was taken by paramedics to St. Joseph's Medical Center and pro­nounced dead at 4:30 p.m. He had no previous record of health prob­lems and there was no indication of the involvement of alcohol or other drugs in the incident. 
According to his group-project members with whom he was working on a group project, the tragedy took place on what 


appeared to be just another normal Sunday for Brumbaugh. 
Jason Huggins, a senior management information systems major, Brenda Friel, a junior business major, and Hick Peplinski were working alongside Brumbaugh. 
"We were working on a group project for our networks and telecommunications class and we met at 3 p.m. All of a sudden he leaned back in his chair and fell over," Huggins said. "We thought that he was joking like, 'I'm tired of this project and don't want to work on it anymore."' 
But it wasn't a joke. 
Brumbaugh then, according to Huggins, went into a mild seizure and Huggins asked one of the computer cluster atten­dants to call 911. In the meantime, Friel who was on the computer beside Brumbaugh, turned him on his side. 
"He seemed to be having difficulty breathing and he. was making the strangest sound," Friel said. "lie was extremely clammy and his face went red." 
Huggins and Friel continued to check his pulse as they waited for medical atten­dants to arrive. Huggins also checked Brumbaugh's wallet for any documenta­
see COBA I page 4 


Rita will serve No more Penny Pitchers ... no time in jail 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 

John Rita. a Notre Dame law grad­
uate will serve no jail time in con­
nection with a car accident that 
killed Notre Dame freshman Mara 
Fox in 1993. 

In St. Joseph County Superior 
Court Friday afternoon, Rita pleaded 
guilty to failure to perform the 
required duties after a fatal accident 
A jury acquitted Hita in 1994 of 
being directly involved in the death 
of Fox. But it was hung on the 
charge of leaving the scene of a fatal 
accident. 

Judge William Albright sentenced 
Hita to a one-year suspended sen­
tence, one year of probation, 40 
hours of community service, and a 
$1 ,000 fine. 

During Hita's 40 hours of commu­
nity service, the court suggested that 
he talk to kids about the dangers of 
drinking and driving. 

Fox's mother, who was in town this 
weekend, said that she was not 
happy with the plea that St. Joseph 
County prosecutor Mike Barnes 
arranged. 


Sister Kathleen Beatty, rector of Lyons Hall, agreed, commenting, "I understand his logic, but I don't agree with it." 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

N
otre Dame students held a vigil at Bridget McGuire's Filling Station Friday night. The students honored the memory of the local bar, which recently closed following 
a police raid on Jan. 31. 

Students honor fallen classmate with service 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN . Associate News Editor 
Students from the "India Semester Around the World" pro­gram, classmates and friends gathered together this weekend in Betsy Connelly's ='"!'!!!''l'l'!!~h 
home to remember Ben Trigg, a senior from St. Edward's Hall who died in a car accident in November. 
"We got together and laughed a lot and talked," said Carrie Pfaff, a 1997 graduate of Notre Dame. "We all feel like he was a really important part of our trip. More than anyone else, he really loved us and thought of us as his family. He'II definitely be missed." 

Trigg was found dead Dec. 19 at the scene of an earlier car acci­dent. 
In late November, Trigg's car ran off the road on a remote sec­tion of the Blue Ridge Parkway near his hometown of Whittier, N.C. 
see TRIGG I page 4 

AIDS Quilt evokes emotional response from students 
By SARAH DYLAG 
News Writer 
The portion of the AIDS Memorial Quilt that visited the Stepan Center this weekend opened eyes. 
,......~,...,.,....._, demanded attention. and Complete illustrated the AIDS quilt wide-spread coverage effects of p.3
AIDS on peo-.___________, pie's lives. 
"It's so easy to be isolated in our 18-to 20-year-old world," said Shannan Ball, a student volunteer working at the open viewing of the quilt. "It's easy to turn your head when one person dies from AIDS. But you can't ignore this. You're con­fronted with it face-to-face. Here. you can't take your eyes off of it." 
"It's interesting to see and very powerful," said Becca Roedersheimer, a Notre Dame student. 
Other students agreed. "There's something very pow­erful about stariding face-to­face with pieces of people's lives. Seeing the personal touches from suffering family members forces one to recog­nize that the panels of the quilt represent people with families and friends who miss them," 

. said junior Lezlie Potter. "The personal touches, poems, and statements from family members are the most touching,"explained Claire Boyle. ­"I think the ones [patches] with the pictures are the most powerful," added Lisa Zimmer. "Looking, you think, these peo­ple had lives too. This person liked doing stuff that I like to do." The panels, which were unfolded at Friday's opening 
ceremonies, commemorate the lives of people who have died from AIDS. Each panel, like each person, is unique to the individual who struggled with the disease and to the people they left behind. For the people who see the quilt, this unique­ness is often the most striking aspect of the panels. 
"Seeing the panels, you're overcome with emotion," explained Rosanna Ventrone, an AIDS quilt committee mem­ber. "Some make you cry. Some make you laugh. Every panel makes you feel something." 
Erin Emmons, the committee chairperson, agreed. 
"Looking at the panels, you get a glimpse of the person's life. And it's also a hallmark of the relationship between the people who made the panels and the person who died." 
The quilt was displayed as part of AIDS Awareness Week, an effort to educate people about AIDS and the indiscrimi­nate impact of the disease. 
"It strikes everybody," explained BalL "You look and you see a panel of a 10-year­old girl next to a 19-year-old 
see AIDS page 4 
I r 
I 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


A Rainbow­of Colors 
-~---~ ­
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, February 9, 1998 

Penn State professor plans third marijuana protest 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
During the third of his now-weekly "joint" smoking protests, professor emeritus Julian Heieklen said yester­day he will try something new next week to get his point across. 
"We'II meet across the street next week to see what the State College (police department) will do," Heicklen said, adding that meeting there would put the protest out of jurisdiction of University Police Services and into the jurisdiction of State College police. 
State College police would not com­ment on their specific course of action for next week's protest. 
"We would enforce the law fairly if there's a violation," said Sgt. John Wilson of State College police. 
For the past few weeks, Heicklen has smoked a "joint" of what he claims is marijuana in front of University Gates in an attempt to get arrested and nullify the state's anti­marijuana laws. 


Over the last week, I have been quite preoccu­pied. My mind, although consumed with the seem­ingly endless reading assignments piled on by my professors, has been cluttered with thoughts of a different color. 
These thoughts that I have been toiling over are not problems inher­ent to the Notre Dame 

Anne Hosinski 
Wire Edicor 
community. They are not grievances I have 
against society or life in general. I am not 
worried by the reality of my lack of summer 
employmnnt facing me, well not at the pre­
sent moment. I am preoccupied by something 
quitn difTercnt, something that holds a special 
place in my heart and mind. 

The event of which I am speaking is Notre 
Dame Encounter #49, the retreat that I 
attended as a team member. The NDE retreat 
is a three-day retreat sponsored by Campus 
Ministry that allows students to grow within 
their relationship with Christ. There are five 
NDEs a year, and 56 lucky students are ran­
domly accepted from the plethora of applica­
tions received by Campus Ministry. 
I have been so lucky to be a part of two of 
these retreats, first my freshman year as a 
participant. and just recently as a team mem­
ber. Through this simple weekend, I have 
gained something that I will never be able to 
shake from my brain ... no matter how hard I 
tried. 

One weekend. Three days. These experi­
ences have taught me that life is truly about 
the perspective to which you approach it, not 
the grievances you have with it. I have been 
angry. I have been persecuted. I have been 
lonely. But a fellowship of 80 or so people has 
made me take a good, long look at myself and 
realign my perspective of many things in my 
life. 

At the beginning of this weekend, we were 
80 people that could have easily been in the 
same freshman general chemistry class, or 
have frequented Bridget's (or some other 
local establishment) on the same night. 
However, we were all assembled at the 
retreat for a common purpose -we were 
there to give of ourselves, learn from each 
other and realize our own personal spirituali­
ty and relationship with God. 

Through our experience, all 80 of us 
brought forth our own internal color of per­
sonality, spirituality and hope. Whether it be 
red, orange or green; be it purple, yellow or 
blue, all of the participants and team of NDE 
#49 grew spiritually, enthusiastically, person­
ally and communally. 

If you have been on NDE, congratulations, 
please continue to live with the spirit of the 
weekend. If you haven't been on NDE, I 
implore you to go over to the Campus 
Ministry.office in the library and pick up an 
application. If you think that all that I am 
writing is complntely inane, call me and I will 
get an application for you. 

I cannot guarantee to everyone that NDE 
will be as fantastic of an experience as it was 
for me, but I can tell you that at the very 
least the weekend will make you think about 
yourself', your life and your perspective on 
everything. It will teach you that your life is a 
matter or how you live it, your attitude and 
your inherent values. I promise. Just go. 
Allow yourself to be pushed. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAV's STAFF  
News  Graphics  
Kristi Klitsch  Tom Roland  
Christopher Shipley  Production  
Bill Uniowski  Mark DeBoy  
Sports  Lab Tech  
Bill Hart  Katie Kroener  
Viewpoint  
Ed Llull  
Accent  
Joey Crawford  

The Observer (USPS 599 Z-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of che Associated Press. All reproduction rights arC" reserved. 

University police ollicers acted very politely, Heicklen said, adding that he thinks their manners are a result of' the complaint he filed with the district attorney. 
Heicklen said that during last week's protest the University police "stole" his cigarette, so he filed a 
complaint against the officers involved. 
"The officer was seizing what he believed to be evidence," said Director of University Police Services Thomas Harmon. "If it is marijuana, it is subject to be taken by police." 
Initial test results showed that the "joint" did not contain marijuana, University police said. University police are still awaiting state crime lab test results. 
However, this time, the officers did not confiscate the cigarette. 
"We did not take the cigarette. Ileicklen refused to give it up, and we didn't want to cause confrontation," said Clifford Lutz, university police supervisor. 
Heicklen said he was surprised he has not been arrested yet. 
"I have no idea what the State College police will do. We know what the campus police will do," Heicklen said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
State legislature cuts college funding 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
State legislators are not following a statute that recom­
mends the amount of funding to the university, forcing 
administrators to put a higher tuition burden on students. 
The statute states that the Legislature "intends" to pay for 
67 percent of students' instructional costs, leaving the stu­
dent burden at 33 percent. However, the average university 
student paid 43 percent of their instructional costs this year, 
according to university officials. Most attribute the problem 
to the Legislature not appropriating enough money to the 
university and the Minnesota State Colleges and Universities 
system. "The numbers that we get from the state don't 
reflect that policy. By and large, it is a meaningless statute 
from my perspective," said Richard Pfutzenreuter, associate 
vice president for budget and finance. The state provided 
$543 million for the University this fiscal year. But not all of 
this state funding is used for instructional costs. Some of it 
goes to individual programs and University projects. In the 
end, about $280 million goes toward instructional costs. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS 
Center assists migrant workers 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. 
Two Latina women walked through the door of El Centro por los Trabajadores. Neither of them spoke English. They sat and waited until Hugh Phillips, founder of El Centro, asked what they needed. The older woman explained that her daughter was pregnant and needed a doctor. Phillips instructed them in Spanish to a clinic in Champaign and he would send an interpreter there to help them. "That's the kind of thing we do here all the time." El Centro is an organization that is unique because it serves all migrant workers. Phillips and the 100 volunteers who help him on a regular basis provide various services to non-English speaking Latinos. Literacy skills, legal assistance, public health education and access, as well as job development and community building to counter social isolation are included in the services that El Centro provides for the Latino community. 

• STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Asian economic crisis affects students 
STANFORD, Calif. 

The Financial Aids OITice has begun to feel the impact of the recent southeast Asian financial crisis as international students affected by the disaster approach the office for help. Many of these students have been receiving financial aid from their home governments. But as these govern­ments now struggle with economic turmoil and currency devaluations, their student financial assistance programs may be some of the first to suffer cuts. This has forced Asian international students to look elsewhere for answers. ''I'm not sure what the university can do to help these stu­dents," said electical engineering student Hac-chang Lee. Dean of undergraduate admissions and financial aid Hobert Kinnally encouraged students affected by the crisis to approach his office. "Any student concerned should go right there, even if they are not currently receiving financial aid," he said. He recommended that graduate students first con­tact their departments of study, which often handle gradu­ate aid. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA-BERKELEY 
Court finds lab acted 'inappropriately' 
BERKELEY, Calif. 

A federal appeals court unanimously ruled Tuesday that Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory acted inap­propriately when it conducted genetic tests on its employees without asking permission for 30 years. Last summer, seven LBNL employees charged the laboratory with using blood and urine samples to test for syphilis, pregnancy and sickle-cell anemia without their knowl­edge. But the UC-owned, Department of Energy-run labo­ratory said the tests were for the employees' own health and maintenance. "We test them to identify conditions that may limit or restrict their ability to do the job for which they were hired," said LBNL spokesperson Ron Kolb. "There's no unusual or sinister reason for what we did." Some plaintiffs in the case allege that LBNL's test­ing methods were racially biased -a claim the laborato­ry denies fully. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather" forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 

Monday ~45 32 Tuesday 4, 44 +33 Wednesday~ 41 29 
( 
Thursday ~. 42 ·32 Frid~y /\:9, 42 32 
T...5v\l-'"'-vf"'1..1"' .,,. 
q,~,~pc@.Q i) ~ u 
Showers T~storms Rain Flurries Snow Jcs Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vis Associated Press GraphicsNet 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 

Monday, February 9, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

''I'm a mom just like your mom. And my son was a kid, just like you. But because of a misunderstood disease called AIDS, our lives would never be the same.'' 
Jeanne White ..Ginder Ryan White's mom 
'IT STRIKES EVERYBODY. You LOOK AND YOU 
SEE A PANEL OF A 10-YEAR­OLD GIRL NEXT TO A 19­YEAR-oLD BOY, NEXT TO A 
30-YEAR-QLD MAN.' 
SHANNAN BALL STUDENT VOLUNTEER 

The Observer/Kevin Dalum 
P
art of the AIDS Memorial quilt was on display in the Stepan Center over the weekend. There was an open viewing of the quilt on Friday, Saturday and Sunday. 
'SEEING THE PANELS, YOU'RE OVERCOME WITH EMOTION ••• SOME MAKE YOU CRY. SOME 
'IT'S so EASY TO BE ISOLAT­MAKE YOU LAUGH. EVERY PANEL MAKES YOU FEEL ED IN OUR 18 -TO 20­SOMETHING DIFFERENT. EACH TELLS A DIFFERENT YEAR-QLD WORLD. IT'S EASY STORY.' TO TURN YOUR HEAD WHEN ONE PERSON DIES FROM AIDS. 
RosANNA VENTRONE 
BUT YOU CANNOT IGNORE 

AIDS QUILT COMMIITEE MEMBER 
THIS. You'RE CONFRONTED WITH IT FACE TO FACE. HERE, YOU CAN'T TAKE YOUR EYES OFF OF IT.' 
SHANNAN BALL STUDENT VOLUNTEER 
'1 ooKING AT :mE PANELS, 
LYou GET A GLIMPSE oF THE PERSON'S LIFE. AND IT'S ALSO A HALLMARK OF THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE PEOPLE WHO MADE THE PANELS AND THE PERSON 
WHO DIED.' 
ERIN EMMONS AIDS QUILT COMMIITEE CHAIRPERSON 





Women's issues discussed at Saint Mary's seminar 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT Associate Saint Mary's News Editor 
This past weekend, the Oflice of Multicultural Affairs at Saint Mary's College sponsored a forum focusing on con­temporary women's issues. 
The event was attended by Saint Mary's president Marilou Eldred. as well as many SMC alumnae, students and faculty from neighboring schools. 
Difl'erences between male and female relationships was a main subject discussed by the group. The existence of these stereotypes was referred to repeatedly throughout the day. 
"Being a female, you always end up taking care of someone else," junior Melanie Smith stated in response to Eldred's comments on the issue of women in the work­place. 
According to Eldred, all people need to challenge the idea of what it means to be a true leader. "Male or female. we are all capable of holding a position of power," she said. 
Educational institutions deal with the issues of diversity on a daily basis. Understanding adversity and challenge have become the keys to discovering the possibilities for success, regardless of one's gender. Success and survival is possible beyond the walls of a classroom, and women are challenging the effects of this daily, Eldred told her audience. 


"In order to get anywhere in society," stated Eldred, "one needs to take a chance, get their priorities straight and make changes necessary to get ahead in the game." 
Responsibility, flexibility, honesty and persistence were factors that were taken into account by the discussion group when talking about what characteristics the typical leader should possess. 
Others went on to discuss that a leader knows what they want to accomplish. 
"It is more like a process, because you know what mat­ters. A true leader sticks with his or her plans," NAACP representative Josie White said. 
Sophomore Debbie Klein stated, "I've attended a lot of national conferences in high school, and so far this has been the most informative conference I've ever attend­ed." 

page 4 

The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 9, 1998 
ten messages and notes, also said Ball. tors were available to aaswer more," explained Ventrone.AIDS offer insight into how AIDS Throughout the weekend, questions and offer emotional "This is an incredible gift that 
affects the family members committee members read support.. we've brought to campus."
and friends of the people aloud the names of the people "It's an awe-inspiring expe­Emmons estimated that
continued from page 1 

infected with it. represented in the panels. rience," said Ball. more than 1,000 people visited boy, next to a 30-year old "It brought home how much They also showed information­"It has a greater impact on the Stepan Center this pastman." pain the disease causes, but al videos about the quilt and people than they think it will. weekend to see the quilt. The panels, with their writ-also how much love is there," the disease itself. Quilt moni-In person, it affects you a lot 
COBA 
continued from page 1 
tion of medical conditions or 
ailments. 
"While we were waiting for 
the medical attendants to 
arrive, we tried to make sure 
lw was still talking. lie 
snerned to drift ofT so we just 
kept talking to him and reas­
suring him that everything 
would be all right," Friel 
said. 
As they waited, Huggins 
said that he and his lab part­
ncr started to say prayers. 
Computer cluster attondant Marcie Sandleben, who was working when the incident occurred said, "I called 911, but by the time the atten­dants arrived and tried to start CPR, it wasn't working. Then they took out the pad­dies but I could tell it wasn't working." 
Sandleben and the other attendant cleared students out of the lab and tried to keep everyone calm. In addi­tion, they called the infirmary to have Brumbaugh's ehart pulled to see whether he had any medieal conditions. 
Father Oliver Williams was brought to the scene to per­form the anointing of the sick on Brumbaugh. 
"Everybody did a great job. You go to work everyday and you never think something like this will happen," Sandleben said. 
Huggins and Friel left the lab when the attendants came in to work on Brumbaugh. Upon leaving, Huggins said, "lie IBrumbaugh) seemed to be fine. 
"I left because I wasn't going to do anymore work at that point and I found out at dinner time that he didn't make it," Huggins said. "I left the lab and I thought he would make it." 
A Knott hall resident from the Chicago suburb of Bolingbrook, Ill., Brumbaugh was an only child, a member of the Notre Dame Marching 

Trigg 
continued from page 1 
"We found out on 
Decembor 20 when we got 
a call from Mr. Trigg," 
said Anand Pullapilly, 
another classmate of 
Trigg's, whose father, 
Cyriac Pullapilly, is the 
director of the India pro­
gram. "There were only 
four of us that could actu­
ally go down to the funer­
al. So all of us did not 
have a chance to say 
good-bye." 
According to the friends 
present at the memorial 
on Saturday, it was a 
chance to do just that. 
"We were a tight group," 
said Connelly. "But it is 
difficult to get everyone 
together. We tried to get 
everybody together at my 
house. People read things 
that they had written. It 
was very emotional." 
Anand Pullapilly is plan­ning another memorial service on Sunday, Feb. 22 in the St. Edward's chapel. 

Band and seemed well-liked by all who knew him. 
"He was the kind of person other people would go to as a good friend," said,_ Brother 
Jerome  Meyer, rector  of  
Knott  Hall,  where  
Brumbaugh lived.  

"People went to him for help or help with their stud­ies. lie was very athletic and played sports in the hall," said Meyer. "I would say he was a very well liked and lik­able young man. 
"lie was always very friendly, out-going and level­headed. lie had an air of industriousness about him­self, but he also had a great deal of concern for others also." 
David Stocker, Brum­baugh's HA, shared his thoughts on his former floor resident whom he had known all year. 
''I'm still a little in shock," Stocker said. "Justin was an incredible person. He was an outgoing guy and as a per­son, he was great. lie was one of my good friends in the section." 
According to Stocker, Brumbaugh also had a love for music. 
"One of my fondest memo­ries of him is that he would always be singing 80s songs in the hallway. I think he fan­tasized about being a rock singer," Stocker said. 
Last night as Knott hall res­idents learned of the tragedy, the residents and hall staff banded together to provide support for one another. At Knott's weekly hall liturgy, thoughts were geared toward Brumbaugh. In addition, Meyer said that HAs and other residence hall staff members would be available to meet for one-on-one dis-­cussions or in small groups. 
"The hall is in a state of shock," Meyer said. "The unity that we have developed over the year has helped tonight though. There are people in the corridors just talking and supporting each other." 
Fund offers hope to seniors looking for jobs 
Spc:cial to The Observer 
The Fund for Public Interest 
Research, a non~partisan, non­
profit grassroots environmental 
campaign network, will visit cam­
pus this week to interview gradu­
ating seniors who are interested in 
working on environmental and 
public interest issues. 
Vivien Watts will be giving lnfor~ mational sessions at 7:30 p.m. Tuesday in 201 DeBartolo Hall and at 7 p.m. Wednesday in the lounge ofthe Center for Social Concerns. 
Individual intervievvs will be held Wednesday at the Office of Career and Placement and Thursday at the CSC. Students can sign up for interviews at the information ses~ sions or by leaving a message for Watts. 
Watts will be interviewing seniors for canvass director job.The position includes manag­ing a staff of 10 to 15 activists, attracting media attention and lob­bying elected officials. 





Discouer: 

Communities ofFaith Sharing and Scripture Study 
Begin at the Mini-Rally!! Wednesday, February 11 
7:88-8:88P.M. 
Walsh Hall Chapel 
*Share Prayer., *Hear n'"lore about En'"ln'"laus., *Join a sn1all group 
0MPUS 
MINISTRY ­

Cam.f?US Ministry Events 






OFFICE OF CAMPUS MINISTRY 
103 Hcsburgh Library 
631-7800 112 Badin Hall 
631·5242 Basilica Offices 
631-8463 Web site: 
www.nd.cdu./-ministryI 

Monday & Tuesday, February 9-10, 4:00 pm Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
JPW Lectors Auditions 
Tuesday, February 10, 7:00pm Campus Ministry-Badin Hall 

Campus Bible Study 
Of special interest: . Welcome to our gay and lesbian students Campus Ministry welcomes any gay or lesbian undergraduates, or those discerning their sexual orientation, to come together for conversation, support and friendship. Call Kate Barrett@ 631-5242 or Alyssa at 634-1884. All conversations are completely confiden­tial. . University Village Volunteers Needed: Two student volunteers to assist at University Village, the Married Student Housing, in a "Parents' Time-Out" program that meets on Wednesdays from 9:00 am.-11 :30 am. This ministry would entail working with two mother's to plan activi ties for children ages 1-4 and assist in general child supervi­sion. Please call John or Sylvia Dillon @ 1-5242. 

The four crew mem­
Albright, speaking on CBS' 

bnrs of the Marine jet 
"Face the Nation," said any

that brought down a 
military action against Iraq

rabin r,ar loaded with 
for interfering with U.N. 

skiers ex-pressed sym­
weapons inspectors would 

pathy Sunday to friends 
be a "substantial strike" 

and relatives of the 20 
aimed at diminishing

victims, and said they 
Saddam's ability to rebuild 

would never deliberately 
L__.......__'-----~ 
weapons of mass destruction 


• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Balloonists return after record-breaking flight 
GENEVA 

Hundreds of people cheered, clapped and waved flags at Geneva's airport Sunday, wel­coming home three European balloonists who broke two time records in an unsuccess­ful attempt to circle the globe. Swiss pilot Bertrand Piccard. Belgian pilot Wim Verstraeten and British flight engineer Andy Elson flew back from Rangoon, Burma, where their Breitling Orbiter 2 balloon land­ed in a rice paddy early Saturday. During its flight, the balloon broke the records for the unrefueled flight by any aircraft and the longest tiine spent in the air by a balloon. A bid to be the first to circle the globe was abandoned when China balked at allowing the balloon into its airspace. The crew spent nine days, 17 hours and 55 minutes aloft after taking off from the Swiss mountain vil­lage of Chateau d'Oex on Jan. 28. They cov­ered 5,258 miles; the record is 10,000 miles, held by American Steve Fossett. Piccard was regretful but philosophical about China's ini­tial refusal to grant the balloon entry to its airspace, which caused the balloon to miss the jet-stream winds needed to propel it across the Pacific. 
Flight crew apologizes to Italy following ski accident 
TRENTO, Italy 

jeopardize lives. "What occurred on Feb. 3 was a tragedy," the statement released by the men's lawyer said. "We cherish life and take our jobs very seriously. We would never do anything to purposely endanger the lives of others. We all share in your tremendous loss." The message carried the signatures of the pilot. Capt. Hichard Ashby, 30, of Mission Viejo, Calif., and Capts. Joseph Schweitzer. 30, of Westbury, N.Y.; William Raney II, 26, of Englewood, Colo., and Chandler Seagraves, 28, of Nineveh, Ind. A U.S.-Italian inquiry is under way to determine why the jet swept so low over an Alpine ski resort Tuesday, slicing a cable and sending the gondola crashing into the slopes of Mount Cermis, killing all 20 people aboard. The U.S. military has acknowl­edged the plane was well below the approved altitude of 500 feet. The crew members. assigned to the Air Force base in Aviano, northeast Italy, have been ground­ed during the investigation. They have refused to talk to Italian investigators. 
1,012.46 Volume:

+72.24 
+8.92 574,000,000 

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
i:Dtdl!a~l: IIC~S;fB ·~~ rn·~~~il ll.i&l~ I!BICf 
ECOQEN INC EECN 79-.17 1.188 2.6875 RROADBASD TECH BBTK 55.00 2.750 7.7500 BROADVISION I~C 8V5N 42.54 3.563 11.9375 DIGITAL POER-T DPS/S 41.67 0.625 2.1250 NEWCOM INC:-WT5 NWCMW 37.14 1.625 6.0000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
SIMULATION SCIES SMCI 43.87 5.812 7.4375 SYSTEMSOFT CORP SYSF 36.15 1.875 3.33l5 YORK liROUP YRKG 31.71 7.312 15.7500 :vtiCROPROSE INC MPRS 25.00 0.688 2.0625 SEMICONDUCTOR LA SLIC 20.98 0.531 2.0000 


Possible U.S. strike to unish Saddam 
Republicans want Hussein driven from power 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
WASHINGTON 
Secretary of StEtte Madel­eine Albright promised Sunday that Iraqi President Saddam Hussein will be pun­ished severely if the United States decides to use military force to enforce U.N. resolu­tions. 
Republican leaders con­tended that's not enough ­the ultimate goal, they said, is to drive Saddam from power. 
Albright repeated that Saddam has only weeks to accede to a diplomatic solu­tion to avoid a U.S.-led attack. Bill Richardson, the 
U.S. ambassador to the 
· United Nations, rejected the latest Iraqi offer to avoid it, a two-month window for U.N. officials to inspect Saddam's presidential palaces for con­cealed weapons. 


and threaten his neighbors. 
Defense Secretary William Cohen arrived Sunday in Saudi Arabia to discuss the Iraq question and said the United States had enough 

firepower in the region to Palestinian demonstrators carrying Iraqi flags march in a show of solidarity with the Iraqi pe<;>ple carry out strikes without against a threatened U.S. military srnke Saturday in t~e W~st Bank to~n of ~~thlehem. Etghtusing U.S. bases in Saudi Palestinians, including two police officers, and two Israeli soldters were sltghdy tnjured when the Arabia. Saudi leaders have demonstration rurnecf violent. 
been reported opposing the are after." use of force against Iraq and Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del., has been reluctant to allow said on Fox that taking out military missions to originate Saddam is "not a doable pol­from Saudi soil. icy and ... would require sig­
Senate Majority Leader nificant numbers of ground Trent Lott, R-Miss., speaking forces that I don't think after Albright on CBS, said Congress would support." there are worries in The Republican-controlled
Congress that the adminis­Congress has been workingtration lacks an effective on a statement of support for endgame, which would administration policy toward include removing Saddam. Iraq but has failed to agreeLott suggested support for on what it should say. 
democratic forces in Iraq as Former Gen. Norman 
a way to do it, or setting up a Schwarzkopf, commander of 
Radio Free Iraq or expand­the coalition forces that deci­
ing the U.N.-ordered flight­sively beat Iraq in the 1991 
interdiction zone over Iraq. Persian Gulf War, said on ''I'm not talking about assas­NBC's "Meet the Press" that sination, but I'm talking removing Saddam would be 
about a coherent long-term a "very, very tough thing to policy," Lott said. do" without better intelli­
Sen. Richard Shelby, R­gence and a willingness to Ala., chairman of the Senate use ground forces. · intelligence committee, said But he warned of a risk 
on "Fox News Sunday" that that, just as in the bombinghe would support military of North Vietnam during the 
action against Iraq but Vietnam War, punishingadded: "Ultimately, though, Iraq with air strikes without 
we're going to have to face eliminating Iraq's rulers up to the fact we're going to would only toughen their have to get rid of him, one resolve. way or the other." Iraq's U.N. ambassador,
"We would obviously," Nizar Hamdoon, said on Albright said, "look forward CNN's "Late Edition" that a 
to dealing with a different "good chance" remains of ·Iraqi regime, but we have to 
averting a military show­
be very clear about what we down. 



page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 9, 1998 
& GET AFREE FOUNTAIN DRINK AT THE HUDDlE MART IN lAFORTUNE. ~WI UDENTBODY ONS  




~OBSERVER 
is now accepting applications for the 
1998-99 General Board 
Any full-time undergraduate or graduate student at Notre Dame or Saint Mary's is encouraged to appLy. Please submit a three-page statement ofintent with a resume to Heather Cocks by Monday, Feb. 9, at 5 p.m. For questions about the application process or for more information about any position, call The Observer at 631-4542. 
NEWS EDITOR ApplicaiHS should have news reponing, wriring and ediring skills. The News Ediror man­ages a sraff of editors and reporrers, generales srory and series ideas and is responsible for rhe conrenr of rhe news secrion each day. 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR Applicanrs should have edirorial. wriring and ediring skills and an abiliry ro deal wirh rhe public. The Viewpoint Editor manages a staff of copy and layour editors and columnists and decides whar lerrers will run each day. 
SPORTS EDITOR Applicanrs should have spans reporting, wriring and ediring skills. The Sporrs Editor manages a sraff of ediwrs and reporters, genera res story ideas and special secrions, arranges rravcl accommodarions for reporting trips and is responsible for the contenr of the sports section each day. 
ACCENT EDITOR Applicams should have features wriring and ediring experience. The Accent Editor man­ages edirors, reporrers and columnisrs, generares srory ideas, and is responsible for the con­tent of rhc Acccnr pages each day. 
PHOTO EDITOR Applicanrs should have phorography and developing experience. The Pharo Ediror man­.tgc:s <I staff of photographers and lab technicians and musr work closely wirh News, Sports .tnd Acccl1! dcparrmcm editors in assigning photographs. 
SAINT MARY'S EDITOR Any full-rime undergraduate student ar Sainr Mary's is encouraged ro apply. The ediror manages Saint Mary's department heads, coordinares coverage wirh Norre Dame sraff, generates srory ideas on rhe Saint Mary's campus and is responsible for rhe Observer office at Sainr Mal)•'s. 

ADVERTISING MANAGER Applicants should be business majors wirh managemenr and sales skills. The Advenising Manager oversees an assistant and a staff of accounr execurives and is responsible for gcn­eraring advertising revenue. 
AD DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macinrosh experience and knowlcd~e of QuarkXprcs.s. Aldus Freehand and Adobe Photoshop. The Ad Design Manager over~ees a sraff of designer,, works closely wirh adverrising and markering departmenrs and is responsible for rhe design and layout of advertisements. 
DESIGN MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience, knowledge of QuarkXpress and design/layour and newspaper production experience. The Design Manag<:r oversees a staff of illustrators and graphic designers and works closely with dcpartmt'rH sraff on lay­our/design of special secrions and rraining employees in Quark. 
SYSTEMS MANAGER Applicants should have solid Macintosh computer experience and knowledge of computer nerworking. The Sysrems Manager mainrains and updates rhc Macinrosh ncrwork and primers and is responsible for training the entire Observer sraff on the usc of rhe sysrem. 
CONTROLLER Applicanr must he a sophomore or junior majoring in accounting or finance ar Notre Dame or Saint Mary's. The Conrroller is responsible for preparing The Observrr's operat­ing budget and raxes, accounts payable, cost-cracking and other transaction dutic~. 
WEB ADMINISTRATOR Applicanr must be familiar with building and maintaining a World Wide Web sire. The Web Adminisrrator is responsible for working wirh rhe edirorial deparrmcnts of The Observer in order ro updare and archive rhe conrenr of rhe site each day. The Web Adminisrrator also must be able ro expand rhe capabiliries oF the sire. 
Monday, February 9, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page? 

Elections open to all students in good academic & social standing 
You must attend one of the following informational meetings: 
Monday, February 9 or Tuesday, February 10 at 7:00 in Haggar Game Room 
Saturday afternoon fun ... 

The Observer/Kristy Sutorius 

S
outh Bend children participated in arts and crafts at the Storybook Festival, held on Saint Mary's campus over the weekend. 



SMC students share ideas on friendship 
By ERIKA WITTORF 
News Writer 

Thomas Aquinas' views on friendship were shared Saturday at Saint Mary's College by alumna Janet Kelley and Holly Arends, a junior double major in philos­ophy and religious studies. 
The pair emphasized the need to develop a friendship with God before other people. The lecture was a guided exploration of friendship, including an open discussion at the conclusion of the lec­ture. 
A declared patron of Catholic higher education, Thomas Aquinas was born in the early 13th century. He wrote numerous volumes of Catholic doctrine that have become classical texts in west­ern thought. 
Arends and Kelley tried to apply Aquinas' views to practi­cal situations in their lecture 
African American & Hispanic Students Summer Leadership Internships 
Taking Applications for the '98,'99 School Year and May,August Summer Rentals. 
available: Stop by the Office for Multicultural Student Affairs or the Center for Social Concerns for an application. Application Deadline: February 13th (Friday) 

Opportunities available in: South Bend (both) Chicago (both) (Detroit) (African American) San Deigo (Hispanic) Lexington (Hispanic) 
• 
Ten weeks of leadership and service work sponsored by the Black Alumni and Hispanic Alumni of Notre Dame. 

• 
Academic work and experience earning 3 elective credits in Theology. teJ.iiJ 


C: I II r I It '0 II 
SOCIAL

• $2300.00 Tuition Scholarship CONCERNS 
"Thomas on Friendship." 
"We are all called to be friends of God," said Kelley. "If we seek to be happy in friend­ship, we must seek to be happy with God." 
The presenters went on to declare Aquinas' view that after people have developed their friendship with God, they are better prepared to develop friendships with their fellow men. Benevolence, mutuality and oneness in each other are, according to Aquinas, the steps one takes to develop deep and meaningful friend­ships. 
Kelley explained that benev­olence is not mere well-wish­ing, it is acting for someone's good. This ultimately functions as the heart of true friendship. 
Mutuality is necessary because one cannot force rela­tionships with other people. They explained that friend­ships are a desire on both individuals parts. 
After people have estab­lished mutuality, friends become another self for one another. 
"When friends become another self for one another, they call to mind if they would be the same if they did not know the other person," said Kelley. 
Arends and Kelley gave an example of the trinitarian friendship. 
"The trinitarian relationship is perfect," said Arends. She added that the relationship between the Father and the Son are relatively easy to con­ceptualize. The role of the Holy Spirit is more difficult to conceptualize. It is the inter­mediary between the Father and the Son. Their friendship is benevolent, mutual, and finally, they have reached the point of oneness, she said. 
The presentation was part of the first annual Thomas Aquinas Symposium. 

Most Affordable Student Housing 

ATTENTION: Dale Bauer, Professor of English and recent Chair of the Women's Studies Program at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, will give a lecture on Monday, February 9, at 7:00 in the Center for Continuing Education, Room 210-214, West Lounge. The title of her talk is "Indecent Proposals: Teaching's Public Image." Professor Bauer is the author of Edith Wharton's Brave New Politics (University of Wisconsin Press, 1994) and Feminist Dialogics: A Theory of Failed Community (SUNY Press, 1988). She is also the co-editor of Feminism, Bakhtin, and the Dialogic (SUNY Press, 1991 ). 


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 9, 1998 
• JEDI MIND TRICKS 
Clinton Administration Hurting U.S. 
Through the constant headlines and afflicts every quarter. The erosion of updates in every media outlet, family valves is a societal ill that all President Clinton continues to cry: "I Americans must learn to light. Is Bill just want to get Clinton, a person back to doing the whose loyalty to business of the spouse and American peo­daughter has ple." While I am failed to trump
Kevin

captivated by his his desire for per­weasel-like sonal pleasure on maneuvering in multiple occa­
Patrick

the adulterous sions, someone scandal involving capable of leading the then 21-year-this fight? old intern. a rea-Passing the 
sonable examina­
tion of his current proposals "for the 
American peopln" reveals the inept­
ness of a morally bankrupt President. 
Thrne major "affairs" of state at the 
forefront of Clinton's agenda are the 
Iraqi situation, his child-care initia­
tive, and paying off social security. 
Clinton has as much business order­
ing troops into battle as he does 
admonishing Marv Albert for his 
indiscretions. It's one thing to have 
never served in the military, but to 
evade serving your country in a time 
of need in such a disingenuous way 
should bring enough shame on an 
individual to recuse themselves from 
spearheading such decisions. 
However. this man has no shame 
which puts our military in harm's 
way. 
What we have currently is the threat of military action (i.e. killing people) because we arc unable to look at Iraq's weapons. The Gulf War was about liberating a country and letting Iraq know th.at their actions will not go unpunished. Was this American arrogance? No, it was an initiative supported by most every nation on the globe. Who is supporting the cur­rent threat of force? No one. Germany has said they will let us fly from their bases, but that is all. We already have seen American military planes crash just this past week. What next? 
But the battle over Clinton's fraud in avoiding the military has been fought in the media before, and I do not choose to light it again. I take solace in the fact that his Secretary of Defense, William S. Cohen, is an hon­orable and trustworthy man. It is his word and opinion that the media and country should be listening to -not the word of a man who has the propensity to lie so successfully as our President. 
As for legislative "affairs," President Clinton last month proposed a child­care initiative subsidizing parents' further exodus out of the home, away from their children, and into the workplace. This revolutionary plan would help those working families who place a higher value on social and monetary success rather than raising happy and healthy children. This way the fraudulent and selfish baby-boomers can further absolve themselves of responsibility for the problems in the current culture of America. "It was the au pair's fault; it was the day-care center's inadequate staff; it was anybody's fault for my screwed up children, just not mine." 
In October 1994 to a group in Albuquerque, Clinton could be heard saying, "The first responsibility of parents is to teach right from wrong." Of course he was mirroring the mantra of the Republican successful "family values" campaign that swept both houses of Congress and ensured fiscal responsibility for the country. What ever happened to those elected to protect the traditional family val­ues that Clinton's initiatives erode? Politicians concerned for family val­ues need to broaden their rhetoric to include all walks of life in America. This nation's epidemic of illegitimacy, divorce, domestic violence, and child abuse knows no class boundaries and blame is the norm 
for the Clinton White House. This is 
exactly the scenario where his 
grandiose State of the "Union" pledge 
is to devote the current budget sur­
plus to save social security. What is 
wrong with social security? Right 
now, money is taken out of everyone's 
pay check and given to a current 
retired person. Luckily, there arc 
many more workers than retirees so 
this pyramid scheme (and that is real­
ly what this is) can continue for many 
years. However, when the baby­
boomers hit their stride in retirement, 
they will soak it dry. There will not be 
enough workers to support the baby­
boomers' Social Security thirst. So 
what do the baby-boomers (Bill 
Clinton) do? They take the current 
surplus and line their pockets. This is 
a band-aid solution on compound 
fracture problem. Instead of fixing the 
currently broken system (as many 
politicians propose), Clinton isn't 
going to make his generation sacrifice 
its turn at the Social Security trough. 
He's going to disingenuously "save" 
the current surplus (by proposing no 
budget mechanism to actually accom­
plish this) and spend, spend, spend. 
What a guy. A moral president with 
foresight and maybe even a soul 
would work for the future of America. 
But not Clinton. He's looking out for 
number one. Bill Clinton is concerned 
with his legacy rather than what is 
right for the people. His legacy will 
most likely be a much more greatly 
burdened generation following him, 
than his generation ever experienced. 
If that is his State of the "Union" 
pledge, this will not be one promise I 
fault him for not keeping. 
Maybe sex with an intern who is practically the same age as your daughter doesn't matter. Maybe the president's lack of fidelity. defiling the White House and disgracing the office of the presidency doesn't mat­ter. Maybe the actions of a man abus­ing his office to obtain the sexual ser­vices of impressionable young employees over whom he wields total authority doesn't matter. As the coun­try's collective standards of morality and decency get lowered I can not help but think that Clinton is weaken­ing a country today. 
lie doesn't know how to uphold the morality of a country. Maybe when we shrug at Clinton's moral indiscre­tions we weaken the country's morali­ty. lie is the commander in chief­the face and voice of America. We elected him twice. I can't help but think of his campaign in 1992: fool me once, shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me. America (c. 1992 and 1996), are we listening? 
Kevin Patrick is a third year JD/MBA student. He would rather write about Bridget's raid, one of "them," or the fraud ofthe Leprechaun tryouts, but Bill Clinton just ticks him off He can be reached at kevin. d.patrick.16@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

• lETTERS TO THE EDitOR 



In Memory of Ben Trigg 

Photo special to The Observer 
Trigg, pictured here on the far left, is remembered with great fondness by those who knew 
him. 
Our friend Ben Trigg died Nov. 20 in a car accident in North Carolina. !lis family did not learn of his death until about a month later, and many people that he knew here may not yet have heard of the accident. Ben would have been a senior this year at Notre Dame but was taking a leave of absence from school. llis untimely death was, and continues to be, a shock to everyone who knew him. 
One regret people often express when a friend passes away is that they never got to tell the person that they loved him and to hear the same in return. As Ben's friends, we are fortunate in that each of us knew that Ben loved us with all his heart. Every time he met a friend, whether it was at a party or on the quad, the friend was greet­ed with a hug and with genuine enthusiasm. In return, we know that Ben always felt that we loved him as though we were family. In faet, there are very few regrets for Ben. His was a life lived passionately and intensely. Although any one of us would give anything to see that mop of hair bouncing toward us one more time, we know that he had experiences in life that some people can only dream of and that he cher­ished each one of them. His love for life can only be described as child-like in its innocence and openness. He was truly loving and giving to every person he came across. 
Ben was constantly searching. He explored his faith and the meaning of his life more seriously than most. We hope that now he is at peace and that those never end­ing questions have finally been answered. He was a good man and a great friend, and we miss him. He is forever with us, but we will always miss our friend. 
For those who knew and loved Ben, there will be a memorial service held at St. Edward's Hall on Feb. 22 at 4:00p.m. 
Friends of Ben Trigg February 8, 1998 
, l~~t(Was All/ Could Do ... 
0

I want tJ share an experience with the Notre Dame community. In the early minutes of Jan. 29, I allowed a man to die in Michigan City, Ind. He died because I live in a society that kills people for killing people. I do not know this man's name, and I have to walk each day knowing that as a citizen, I allowed him to die. 
A contingent of Notre Dame students traveled to a Michigan City prison on the night of this man's execution to pray for his soul, for the souls of those around him, and for the man whom he killed. Together, we sang songs of hope and joy, we read verses from our Bibles about forgiveness and love, and we prayed our rosary. It was all we could do. 
While praying with my fellow students, I felt like running beyond the barri­cades of the prison to try to speak sense to those behind the large brick walls. Please stop, Stop, Stop, However, the institution of the death penalty ls a firm tradition ofAmerican society. They could not stop. I did not run inside. I prayed. It was all I could do. 
It ls powerful and moving to stand outside a prison in the freozlng eold, know­ing that 100 meters from where I was standing, a man was being strapped to a table and given a lethal injection. At midnight, I did not need to look at my watch. An eerie silimee overtook the crowd. It was as if the world around us stopped for an instant. All my energy concentrated on this man and the institu­tion that caused him to die. It was all I could do. My friend and Amnesty International Secretary, Kelly Williams, told me that 
r:the institl.l.tion of the death penalty caused not one, but two deaths. The man who 
···· ·was executed was in prison for anned robbery. He killed a fellow inmate in order to receive the death penalty. On Jan. 29, 1998, he was killed. Whether or t# not this man desired to die is not the issue. The issue is this: The Institutions in the society in which I consider myself a citizen are killing people. I am horrified 
<iilhthatJ live.lll a society that allows these things to happen. I helped to murder this ''7'man. It was alii could do. 
Mark Massoud Junior, Fisher Hall January 30, 1998 




VIEWPOINT 
Monday, February 9, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 
Dan Cichal,ki News Editor ..........................Heather Cocks Advenising Manager .............................. Jcd Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ...................... Mike Day Production Manager................•........ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor ........................... jocy Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ........................ Lori Allen Conrrollcr............................................ Kyle Carlin Photo Editor .......................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame duLac :and Saim Mary'.!. College. It does nO[ necessarily reAect the policies of rhe administrarion ofeither institution. The news is reporred as accurarely and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represenr rhe opinion of rhe m:1jority of the Ediror-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assisrant Managing Ediwr, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Ediror. Commcnraries, leners and Inside Columns presenr the views of the authors, and nor neces­sarily those of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members ofthe Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Acccm/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.edu  
General I nformarion  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• DIGGING DEEPER 
At the Bottom of Plato's Cave 
What exactly is it that makes a good politician? What criteria should we use to evaluate the performance of, say, our own country's president? This question was perhaps first addressed in Plato's "Republic." Plato argued that our leaders ought to be the "philoso­pher kings" who have emerged from 
Aaron Kheriaty 

the shadowy cave into the realm of ideas, dazzled by the glorious light of truth. "Thus, for you and for us, the city will be governed, not like the majority of cities nowadays, by people who fight over shadows and struggle against one another in order to rule ­as if that were a great good -but by people who are awake rather than dreaming." According to Plato, it is this sort of ruler who ought to direct the affairs of the state, so as to aim its activity toward the good. 
We will return to Plato's cave short­ly. First, a few remarks about the mod­ern state of politics. I start with the good news. Vaclav Havel, a former playwright, essayist, and Eastern European Socialist dissident, was recently reelected president of the Czech Republic. In a brilliant essay entitled "Politics and Conscience," Havel reflects on the modern political situation in light of the changes he has lived through in Eastern Europe. I quote at length: 
"Rulers and leaders were once per­sonalities in their own right, with par­ticular human faces, still in some sense personally responsible for their deeds, good and ill, whether they had been installed by dynastic tradition, by the will of the people, by a victorious bat­tle, or by intrigue. But they have been replaced in modern times by the man­ager, the bureaucrat, the apparatchik -a professional ruler, manipulator, and expert in the techniques of man­agement, manipulation, and obfusca­tion, filling a depersonalized intersec­tion of functional relations, a cog in the machinery of state caught up in a pre­determined role. This professional ruler is an "innocent," tool of an "inno­cent," anonymous power, legitimized by science, cybernetics, ideology, law, abstraction, and objectivity-that is, by everything except personal responsibil­ity to human beings as persons and neighbors." 
Havel's portrait of the modern politi­cian reflects Alisdair Mcintyre's char­acter of the amoral Manager depicted in his book "After Virtue": "The man­ager treats ends as given, as outside his scope; his concern also is with technique, with effectiveness in trans­forming neurotic symptoms into direct­ed energy ... " Today's politician, the Manager, contrasts with the notion of a political leader as one who could be placed into categories like justice, honor, treason, friendship, infidelity, courage, or empathy-in short, some­one who could relate to actual persons and real life. But in modernity, we have shifted the emphasis from virtue to quantifiable success, as measured by the ability to manipulate -to wear the right masks in the right situations, to shake the right hands, and to say the right things -regardless of whether these bear any relation to the truth. As Havel says, "A modern politi­cian is transparent: behind his judi­cious mask and affected diction there is not a trace of a human being rooted in the order of the natural world by his loves, passions, interests, personal opinions, hatred, courage, or cruelty. All that he, too, locks away in his pri­vate bathroom. If we glimpse anything at all behind the mask, it will be only a more or less competent technician of power [italics mine]. The sole method of modern politics has become quan­tifiable success, measured by economic and other such statistics. The result, according to Havel, is that "states grow ever more machinelike; people are transformed into statistical choruses of voters, producers, consumers, patients, 
C
OMPETENCE AS A POUTICAL 
LEADER HAS NOTHING TO DO 
WITH THE OBJECTIVE GOODNESS OR 
BADNESS, RIGHTNESS OR WRONGNESS 
PRESENT IN ONE'S CHARACTER. 
INDEED, THESE CONSIDERATIONS 
SEEM TO HAVE LOST ALL RELEVANCE. 
tourists, or soldiers." The competent technicians of power, seeing into the future only as far as the next election, drive the state further into a utilitarian mode which, as Havel has seen first hand, will eventually lead to a thinly disguised totalitarianism. 
With this view in mind, let us turn to modern American politics. Recent presidential opinion polls indicate that 73 percent of Americans believe that our president's "private" life is unre­lated to his proficiency as the comman­der in chief. The American public sees this artificially dichotomous standard as the correct way to evaluate our political leaders. An arbitrary wedge is introduced into the leader's personali­ty; what he does behind closed doors bears no relation to the manner in which he manages public affairs. Competence as a political leader has nothing to do with the objective good­ness or badness, rightness or wrong­ness present in one's character. Indeed, these considerations seem to 
• 000NESBURY 
SH~ SAYS THe t{IHOL.& THIRI? 6RA£l!3 IS PR£7TY 
CONFUSWABOUTIUHAT!3 GOIN60N... 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
17"5 eoTllWso 841? 77-IAT HeR 
50/CXJt. HASHAl? 
7lJ 9RJN6 IN A 
SCANllAL-'-..... 
fi4CIUTA70R. 

(jji) 
' 

have lost all relevance. The public offi­cial is no longer an integral person, but an efficient, calculating manipula­tor of policy, information, social trend, and rhetoric. 
Meanwhile, the press barely has time to flesh out the implications of one "personal" scandal before another one hits the front page. The American pub­lic becomes bored (we've seen it all: sexual deviancy, financial scams, infi­delity, illicit funds, lies ,, ). All the while, our fearless leader continues groveling at the bottom Qf Plato's cave, digging himself a hole (perhaps all the way to China). Desensitized, the public watches sedately as his lawyers skill­fully project shadows onto our newspa­pers and TV screens. 
Our president, the amoral Manager, has worn so many masks, has waffled and reversed his position on so many issues so many times, that one can no longer accuse him of deviating from his own principles. The unsettling truth is that he may simply have no underlying principles from which to deviate. St. Augustine realized that evil was not a particular being, it was the absence of something, namely, of good. Evil is ultimately not a substantial thing, but a dark, empty void. A frightening prospect is that underneath all of the President's masks, if they were ever finally stripped away, we would find that there is left simply ,, nothing. Even more frightening is the possibility that the reason so few people actually care is because he may ultimately be a reflection of us. 
Aaron Kheriaty is a junior philoso­phy and pre-med major at Notre Dame. His column appears every other Monday. He can be reached by e-mail at aaron. d. kheriaty.J @nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"physical science will 
not console me for the 
ignorance of morality in the 
time of affliction." 
-Blaise Pascal 



'Killers' follows action formula 
such great auteurs as Steven sidekick Meg Coburn, a professional correct blend of dazzling establishing Segal and Jean~Claude Van forger played by the mighty Mira shots, angles, tracks, and slow motion
The Replacement Killers 

Damme, we never have to Sorvino. Herein lies the true dramatic that made Woo famous and "Facc/Ofr' a _• worry about it fading away. dilemma: What do you do when some­mega-hit. What results is a very claus­
Directed by Antoine Fuqua 
· It is from this same sacred body is trying to kill you? You kill them trophobic movie, where the camera is "flash-and-cash" tradition first, of course! "Killers" finds this to be often too close to the action to convey

Starring Chow Yun-Fat and Mira Sorvino 
that the archetypal a suitable recourse and follows it vehe­exactly who is pointing the gun at who. "Replacement Killers" mently straight through the last act, The opening scene inside a night club is emerges. proving once again that for 90 minutes a superbly engineered piece of action I'll cut right to the chase: it is quite possible to have characters filmmaking, but this same dizzying for­'iif there is not a whole lot of interact, solve problems, move from mula is drawn out through the entire

(out of five shamrocks) 

*' brain activity in this movie. scene to scene in rapid fashion and still movie, dwindling much of the film'sL---------------------' John Lee {played by leg-get absolutely nowhere. original energy and vitality into tired, 
repetitive motion by the end. And with­By JOEY LENISKI out a decent or mildly interesting plot to Accent Movie Critic follow, the energy and vitality of the audience gets somewhat sapped as well. There you have it, "Replacement n the Hollywood world, there is a cer­Killers" is indeed flash-and-cash. Yet tain kind of movie that I like to call this movie docs manage to achieve an I "f1ash-and-cash." acceptable level of cinematic enjoyment. It is a hackneyed yet intrieatcly-mixed Who doesn't enjoy action stars who dive blend of an inflated budget, glittery from the path of oncoming artillery, hit advertising campaign and hyped-up pro­the dirt and nip around in one motion. motion. big-name (and usually big­tear two .45 caliber pistols from their salaried) stars. footage filled with llashy back pockets in super slow-mo and nffects, large multi-angled explosions, unload on the sweaty suit-wearing gang­
kick-ass combat scenes, and slow­sters across the room. all to the funkymotion cinematic wizardry, all of which and pulsating beat of hardcore electron­hover like carrion around a barren story ica? 
chocked full of unconvincing characters, John Lee (Chow Yun-Fat) a professional assassin tries to protect his family and escape If this is not your bag, then stay home witless dialogue and a paper-thin plot­his past with document forger Meg Coburn (Mira·Sorvino) and watch "My Best Friend's Wedding"line which serves only to conveniently for the 1Oth time. But for those of you 
bring every single character together at endary Chinese shoot-em-up actor Chow While this flick fails in overcoming who have this deeply-rooted need for the finale for one mass bullet-riddled Yun-Fat) is an assassin who refuses to many of the stereotypes typical of its excessive, completely unnecessary bru­blood-orgy. And in the end, the good guy kill the son of a cop (Michael Rooker), genre, it is nevertheless an obliviously­tality and pure, unadulterated violence, stands in somber, honorable victory thus invoking the wrath of the crime­entertaining way to spend six bucks. you should either try and cut in front of over the bad guys spattered all over the lord Mr. Wei {Kenneth Tsang) to whom Director Antoine Fuqua borrows much the girls in the Yo-Cream line at North conerete bfmeath him. It is a formula as he owes a life debt. Thus the "replace­of the shooting style from foreign-film Dining Ilall, or go out and eheck out this shopworn as the desktop in the Oval ment killers" are brought on board, not auteur John Woo, who coincidentally film. I personally recommend tho latter, 
Office, hut as ingrained in llollywood as only to complete Lee's task but to also signed all the checks for this film as at least that carries some assurance for Mann's Chinese Theatre, and thanks to eradicate him and his neurotic female executive producer, but fails to find the your personal safety. 




Not just another film nair 
the role probably came natural to 
him, this non-comedic role for
Fallen 

Goodman proved his talent as an 
actor.

Directed by Gregory Hoblit 
The movie also has very heart wrenching scenes of Hobbes and
Starring Denzel Washington, John 
his makeshift family of his mentally 

Goodman, and Donald Sutherland 
disabled brother and his nephew.
.... _, ..
") 

The simpleton character of 
Hobbes' brother and Hobbes help­
...J'S. 1 ...Jt,.l ...J'!) J.'i1 

ing raise his brother's son really
(out of five shamrocks) 

complete the heroic nature of John Ilobbes as not only a smart, coura­geous detective, but also as a lov­ing family man.
By JOE STARK Not all characters were devel­
Accent Movie Critic 
oped as they should have been 
though. Donald Sutherland plays'I've fallen. and I can't get up," were the first words Hobbes' and Jonesy's superior offi­out of my mouth al"ter watching the recent film, cer, Lt. Stanton. Throughout the
"Fallen." The movie's stunning ending and movie he seems to antagonize

intriguing plot provides for a quality 120 minutes of Hobbes in a shifty and secretivesuspnnse and thrills. "Fallen" mixes the classic detec­tone. I kept expecting for him to laytive story of good cop versus bad guy with a horror out some big secret to Hobbes, buttwist. 
he ends up just staying negativeDenzel Washington portrays detective John Hobbes, and shadowy. He just might win the Baltimore's leading homicide detective. Washington's "Actor Most Needing a Slapping in Denzel Washington and Embeth Davidtz foresee another problem with thevoiee starts the movie with the quote, ''I'd like to tell 
a Supporting Role." shape shifting demon 
you about the time 1almost died." 
Another part that could have
The real strength of "Fallen" lies in its writing. The been more enhanced was the relationship between heard in the movie, the audience tenses and the the­plot proves to be original not only in its twists and Washington's character and Gretta Milano, played by ater gets still. A great job was done by director Gregory turns, but also in its genre. Deviating from the typical Embeth Davidtz. Davidtz plays the role of theologian Hoblit for his use of the floating camera shot to showdetective drama with good guys and bad guys, the plot and supernatural expert well, bringing a less nerdy us exactly what Azazel sees. We seem to float with theadds a horror aspect. The chills and scares added to and a more human approach to the intelligent scholar demon, hovering above the streets of Baltimore, look­the already suspense-filled plot not only made it a bet­character. An almost sibling-like relationship starts to ing for our next host. 
ter police story. but the adding of the "Dragnet"-like develop between the two but is never really brought to With all movies, the job of the critic by definition is tocharaeters made it a better horror film. With possessed completion. criticize, and this movie is definitely not immune toeyes looking on in every scene, it is a movie that pro­Surprisingly enough, one the most memorable per­critical flaws. One has to wonder at the intelligence ofvokes thought, and the horror aspect to the movie formances was given by a group of actors and actress­Azazel. Wouldn't an age-old demon who quoteschanges the typical attitudes of who are the good guys es who combined to create one of the most creatively Aramaic not be as susceptible to the trickery ofand who are the bad guys. A good guy could turn bad constructed villains: Ever6 Azazel. Azazel, a biblical Detective John Hobbes? Azazel seems to be almost out­without even him knowing it. Fans of both detective demon, haunts not only John Hobbes, but the mere smarted twice in the same manner, by two very similar stories and horror films will be entertained by "Fallen." 
idea behind him haunts the audience. The pure evil characters. One other problem I had with the film isThe movie is further strengthened by the perfor­associated with this fallen angel is portrayed well in that Hobbes in the beginning of the story is too strongmances of the main characters. Washington pulls off a the film and is one of the most of chilling aspects of the for the demon to enter him; yet later in the film thisgreat portrayal of not only a suave and talented detec­movie. impossibility seems to be compromised. 
tive, but he also show us a caring family man that we Another great part of "Fallen" is its music and cine­The reason this movie gets four stars is that thesecan easily identify as a complete good guy. John matography. The Rolling Stones seem to have stock in flaws, in the grand scope of the movie, don't affect theGoodman, who plays Hobbes' partner and sidekick, this movie. Not only does the plot seem to be inspired overall entertainment value. So if you miss it theJonesy, gives a very realistic portrayal of a donut-eat­by their song "Sympathy for the Devil," but the demon movies, definitely rent it on one of those dark campusing, coffee-swigging, more experienced cop who sup­in the movie has a penchant for singing "Time On My nights; "Fallen" is a definite must see.
ports Hobbes. Albeit that the donut eating portion of 
Side." Whenever the lyrics of "Time On My Side" are 


UNIVERSI1Y OF NoTRE D 





ECTION 
Monday, February 9, 1998 • A special supplement to The Observer 



<.</,: :,;·.:_j:: ,\m[~~-:,::g~tft:.:: ,:..,:.:·::> < .. ·< .:::if~:r: "tl~th~~~~lt~: All eig~ttick­ets ~st ideas too gOOd to be over­lookep,no matter who win~.. p~ 2 • ·Meet the candidates: Profiles ofth~ilg!lt tickets squating off for the student body presidency, p. 3-6 " The Constitution: A look at the document which Griffin's administra­
tion essentially test~drove, and Which t~ new team mustbuild upon. p. 7 

THE GREAT DEBATE 
Candidates address wide range of issues 
By JAMIE HEISLER Smith, and Matt Tomko/Ross Managing Editor Kerr faced inquiries as to their extent of experience, th,e 
Issues of experience. vision depth of their insight into the and feasibility of platform issues, and the uniqueness of idt~as came to the forefront their platforms. last night in a debate among When faced with the issue eight contending tickets for of experience, only five tickets thP-1998-99 student govern­boasted specific experience mP-nt administration. with the Student Senate-the 
In a two-hour period, the policy-related student govern­candidates outlined campaign ment body chaired by the stu­promises ranging from an dent body vice president. established student bill of Vice-presidential candidates rights to the transformation of Reising, Boyd, and Kerr cur­Stepan Center into a dis­rently serve as student sena­cotecque. Platform ideas were tors; Selak has served on the then more closely addressed Social Concerns Committee, through a series of questions and Grunow acts as the stu­from a panel consisting of six dent government-senate liai­members of the student media son. and student govp,rnment. The tickets of 
The tickets of Peter Corrigan/Doherty and Cesaro/Andrca Selak, Brian Poirier/Smith admitted little Corrigan/Kevin Doherty, or no experience in student Brandon Williams/Julie government, each addressing Reising. Mark Leen/Sarah the matter in different man­Grunow. Michele Costello/A.J. ners. Poirier/Smith stressed Boyd, Tim FitzSimons/Brian the potential benefits of Murphy, Walter Poirier/Greg approaching the position 
"from out of the loop" of student government. 

"We want to end Club Griffin/Nass," stated Poirier, makes our job more difficult, broached issues. issues of campus security, the "because we and once we are elected we "What separates us is the ticket of Leen/Grunow pointed believe no one have to catch up, but we don't fact that we work well togeth­to the existence of an unsafe [currently in stu­feel that's the priority as to er -we're not a politically environment for women as a dent government] who you are going to elect," contrived ticket," said matter not currently receiving is approachable." said Corrigan. FitzSimons. "Our issues are the attention it deserves. He 
The Corrigan/ Members of the questioning practical and feasible, many suggested forums with Doherty ticket panel also chose to directly are being addressed, and experts from campus security stated the knowl­challenge certain campaign that's the opportunity. But the and from outside Notre Dame edge of the inner­ideas presented by the candi­University needs to be pushed to address dangers such as workings of stu­dates, noting either an and held to its commitment." date rape and other forms of dent government absence of adequate research Running mate Murphy con­sexual assault. could be learned or the uniqueness of a plat­tinued, discussing the ticket's "In terms of security, it [the in the time form issue. Questioned on the unique plans for a Millennium environment] is not being between their lack of originality among plat­Committee and their ideas for addressed. We're allowing election and the forms, FitzSimons and expanding diversity programs that environment to ·occur," April 1 transition Murphy cited the distinctions to include the disabled and said Leen. In addition, he date. between themselves and other elderly. advocated the use of the 
"[Our lack of tickets as well as their fresh Faced with a question con­experience] perspective on commonly cerning the lesser-addressed 
see DEBATES/ page 8 


• ENDORSEMENT 
Observer en 

T!Iv!JE2~tf:,~j~~E~:;~~·.
ne'Wly-revjse~! C0]1Sti~ution, both the Student Senate and student body pr.esident .MaH Griffin £Jhcountered. unforeseen obstaCles that demanded cohceritratio:ri{on the present, to the detriment of anY plansJor the future .. 
And in the questions ofscandal sur~ rounding Griffin and the senate's ensuing ~~bat~s o11 the issue of ethics, studerit goyerrhni:mt w~ pre­vented f'rotn<doing fully what it sh?uld be expected to do-represent the studertts; 
Lostin all t~(.) details was a plan, a focu$ from which all ideas could arise. 
But now a new student government 
·:·:~::.· . . . . 
ameVItheise/ 
V'V1e.(tOVE~10tleU 

students, ...·•·.· ••.... . . .. .·· 
their interview with The Observer and at last night's debates, Brandon Williams .and Julie Reising 
··reiterated that theirterm in oft'ite .. \\'OQld be :ma:rked .hY.1:'a passion for 
and commitmm:1.t to· the University ---,. the place andthe idea that it aspires t() ~e....Hotdingthat p:roposition t1P is 
a liSt orideas that aren't too lofty that 'th~y. are J:rilpgssible; bul just Jofty enough that they are meaningful. Tim •·FitZSimons and· Brian Murphy. 
. are another ticket offering that .com-. bination Of vision and prudence, Mote like co-presidents than a single p:resident and vice president, Murphy is the self~described visionary and FitzSimons·is the coordinator of day­
seeWILLJAMS/ page 8. 


-~---------------,..._-------..--------------~~------­
N IDEAS IN REVIEW 
page 2 Monday, February 9, 1998 

Griffin, Nass evaluate progress of 1997-98 
By HEATHER MACKENZIE said, was to make student gov­Associate News Editor ernment less of an "insiders group" and more accessible to 
It was a transition year for students. With an office envi­studnnt gov1~rnment. and stu­ronment that promoted casual dent body presidnnt Matt contact and a welcoming c;riflin and vice presidnnt Erek atmosphere, Griffin believes he Nass were elected to test-drive removed some of the exclusive­a new constitution and rnstruc­ness of student government. tun~d administration, simulta­"Some of my favorite times in neously trying to keeping their office were when someone own platform goals in sight. would come in just to chat or 
"We didn't really know our send me an e-mail saying they plaen corning into this," Nass liked what I was doing," he said. "Our role changed entire­said. "That was really meaning­ly, and we had no idea what we ful to me." were stepping into." 
Facing criticism and cries of THE CRITICISM scandal from other student leaders and organizations, Part of the challenge for c;riiTin and Nass attempted to Griffin and Nass was to incor­improve on some existing stu­porate the new constitution and dent government projects while the governmental overhaul into trying streamlinn its new their ollices. Nass headed up a framework. new Student Senate, while 
"One of our biggest chal­Griffin struggled to keep the lenges was this new system," revised constitution in sight as Griffin said. "But I think we he took oflice. made a lot of improvements But still, many ask what the and headway. We tried to Griffin!Nass administration has improve on what was done actually done during their year bdore us." in ollice. 
Griffin and Nass citn pro­"Contrary to other campus grams like SafeHide as some of publications like Scholastic, the most successful aecomplish­there is a lot that we have done rnents of their year in ollice. this semester," Griffin said. 
"Wn took a .great idea and "There are a lot of accomplish­turnnd it from unreliable into a ments that the students can't system that occurs every see right now. but we have got­
more done," Nass said. "We would come out of this." with only a letter to the Student week," Nass said. ten the ball rolling." 
worked together and really got With distribution and pay­Senate asking that they further Grillin agreed, "In a couple of Some of these long-term goals to know people as a group. I ment problems plaguing the investigate the matter. 
weeks, SafeHide is going to were ideas like the campus expected a lot of egos, but I was newsletter, the idea did not Throughout the scandal. 
have its own van. This program shuttle, which Griffin and Nass really impressed by this group." catch on with the student body Griffin defended himself while has gone way beyond where it see as an accomplishment of Griffin and Nass admit that the way Griffin and Nass had still fulfilling his role as the was last year." their office even if the results there were some platform goals hoped. president of the student body. 
But apathy and cynicism still are not currently tangible. 

that did not happen this year, "I don't think the students "The petition was inaccurate,exist in the minds of students, "It is the things that are not but for the most part the had enough time to get used to and it says something that no and Nass feels that the accom­immediate that can turn out administration thinks they have it," Nass said. "We anted people one has ever seen the signa­plishments of student govern­great," Nass said. 
had a successful year. to take it seriously, but people tures," Griffin said. "I would ment arc sometimes missed by "In the long term," Griffin "I would have liked to have were not used to it." hope that the students would critics. added, "the work that the com­seen a top 25 leadership con­One of the mistakes Griffin come to me if they have prob­"It is easy to rip on student mittees of student government ference, and there are some said he made was assuming lems and not work throughgovernment because we focus can do are amazing. Things like other things that just didn't that clubs would be more will­these means." 
more on policy than on pro­the University parking commit­happen," Griffin said. "But a lot ing to accept the free advertis­"I was very impressed the gramming," he said. "We can't tee changing the parking situa­of people don't know what has ing in the Hook-Up. way Matt handled himself dur­reason with people who don't tion are things that aren't going gone on because they are con­"We thought the clubs would ing the impeachment," Nass think we've done anything. It is to happen right now. But they siders 'non-newsworthy' be a bigger part of this," Griffin said. "I don't have thick enoughsad that people think that, but are going to happen." 
things." said. "But clubs only care about skin to go into something like it is simply not true." One of the unseen accom­their individual members." that." 
Part of the reason Grillin and plishments of Nass. according CAMPUS HOOK-UP Did this controversy make Nass feel that their accomplish­to many student leaders, is the THE SCANDAL Griffin or Nass regret their ments have not been mow rec­way the current vice president One of the more criticized roles in student government?

ognized by the student popula­runs the Student Senate. With a aspects of the Griffin/Nass In recent months, Griffin's "The good experiences of this tion is because they did not new way of operation this year administration is the imple­name has been associated more office far outweigh the baddireetly advertise to the stu­incorporating a senator from mentation of a mass distributed with potential impeachment experiences," Nass said. "I dents. every dorm, this body is instru­student government newsletter, than with presidential policy. wouldn't even think twice about "We are somewhat humble," mental in passing many of the The Campus Hook-Up. Jeremy Lingenfelser stepped up doing this again." 
Nass said. "We don't like to resolutions that directly affect "This started out as a great with a petition to recall the Griflin agreed. "I am so gladbrag. This was a different the student body. 
idea," Griflin said. "The leaders president on a question of that I got to finish my Notreapproach than in years past." "I looked at last year's min­starting out didn't know what ethics, and then disappeared Dame career in this position." 
Part of this approach, Griflin utes. and we have gotten a lot 


• COMMENTARY 

Winning ticket should note others' ideas 
T
akon together, this year's tickets show strengths in vision, feasible ideas. student government experi­enee, and the requisltn leadership quali­ties -but most do not have all of them in onn. 
While Williarns/H!lising and FitzSimons/Murphy possess the com­plnte package and nearly-complete package, respectively, the other tickets also niTer some ideas that should be implemented by next year's occupants of 203 LaFortune. 
Thn following descriptions of each ticket highlight tho ideas that ought to be considered. as well as The Observer's reason not to endorse those candidates: 
Matt Tomko and Hoss Kerr present a platform that is well-researched and offf'<rs many ideas that. if implemented, would make life at Notre Dame more convenient. Kerr's dynamic personality would be effective in running Student Senate. and Tomko's behind-the-scenes research would make him a valuable asset to student government. But other than placing a student on the Board of Trustees, the platform lacks mention of the abstract ideas that, although harder to implement. would address more important needs than those of mere convenience. 

Mark Leen and Sarah Grunow, howev­er, display the type of vision that student government needs. With an abundance. of experience, the ticket has some good ideas that ought to be adopted regard­less of who wins the election. Leen and Grunow suggest using the Executive Cabinet to focus attention on gender and racial issues and writing better­researched resolutions that anticipate possible objections from the administra­tion in order to build a stronger student consensus. The ticket's plan to enact policies "that hold the University to a higher standard'' is also laudable. But Leen is too aggressive -and tends to dominate Grunow in conversation ­which may prevent him from building the consensus that he himself seeks. 
Peter Cesaro and Andrea Selak also have a comprehensive platform. They plan to expand SafeRide to Thursdays, adjust the meal plan for more student choice, and create forums with other universities to examhw issues of race. But the duo did not display the passion for changing student government that the other tickets presented, and one doubts that the soft-spoken Solak could be an effective leader of the Student Senate. 
Michele Costello and A.J. Boyd have a praiseworthy goal in focusing on service opportunities for students. and they also suggest a support group to aid tho pro­posed student member on the Board of Trustees in writing proposals to the board. But the closed and eovert nature 
see TICKETS/ page 8 

----~--~----~----~--­
N 
: • 0 ;i 
• . ; ; . .•. . : ~; \ ~ 1 .• : • •• . . • . ; .• 
'1 r 1 .. ,\ ·• ~ ~: •. • .··:; ;·
lH.f CAN II IAlES
i . .. . ... ..... ·' .· '; ,) . ? .•. " ./"' ·~ . .· ~ .. ; . ···"' • . . . .. ' . ; 

Monday, February 9, 1998 
Peter 



CESARO 
Andrea 


SELAK 


page 3 

ClasS/ Major: Cesaro is a fmance and CAPP major; Selak is a government/international stud­ies and American studies major. 
IN THEIR WORDS 

Campaign Slogan: "Putting Students First." Most Important Idea: Improving student services, including the spelling out of student rights, getting a non-voting student on the Board of Trustees, adjusting the meal plans and improving communication between student government and students. Most Feasible: Working to change the dining plan and privatizing SafeRide. Least Feasible: Getting a student on the Board of Trustees. Notable Quote: "We want to take the government to the students and increase communi­cation so that people aren't saying 'What does student government do?"' Prior Experience: Cesaro is Knott Hall co-president and served previously as the Planner Hall freshmen representative, sophomore class. president and student senator. Selak is sopho­more class vice president, co-chairs the Social Concerns Committee and previously served as freshman class secretary. 
IN OUR WORDS 

The Best Ideas: Forums with other colleges and universities to address ethnic and other social concerns; extending SafeRide to "popular" going-out nights; the creation of a new posi­tion to aid students in appealing parking citations. Most Feasible: Posting student employment opportunities on the student government home page; replacing the Campus Hook-Up with more efficient means of advertising. Least Feasible: Privatizing SafeRide without cutting funding to other important student government undertakings. 
WHERE THEY STAND 
Student-administration Relations -Would push for a non-voting student member of the Board of Trustees. Inner-workings of Government -They believe the student government's executive cabinet has great potential for achievement and "could be such a powerful tool." Gender Relations -The pair sees the Women's Resource Center as playing a larger role on campus; they want to increase funding, publicity and office space for the center. Diversity -Can be more easily addressed by "bringing students together" through forums and similar activities; increase accessibility for disabled students. Off-Campus Students -Addressed the need for off-campus presidents to sit on the Hall Presidents' Council; stated that creation of "block captains" can help publicize student govern­ment activities to various apartment complexes. 
What We Like: Cesaro and Selak understand both the workings of student government and the complementary role of hall government through experience in each. Their attention to detail prompted them to research each platform proposal. What We're Worried About: All researching abilities aside, they lack long-range vision for the University, which would give focus to their slate of campaign ideas. These two did not display the passion for improving student government that was present in other tickets; 'they tended to dance around the questions, summarizing the platform rather than honing in on specific answers. Selak's quiet demeanor calls into question her assertiveness and ability to lead the senate. 
Class/Major: Corrigan and Doherty are both junior finance majors. IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "Great expectations for simple changes." Most Important Idea: Setting up a campus-wide database that student can use to buy and sell used textbooks. Corrigan and Doherty believe this will foster competition' with the bookstore to keep students from "getting ripped off." Most Feasible: Any of their ideas that "eliminates a common inconvenience," such as installing campus telephones in parking lots and re-painting crosswalks. Least Feasible: Installation of Notre Dame Federal Credit Union ATM outside Grace Hall. Notable Quote: "We want to interact with the students and get their ideas, because there are lots of other people who are out there thinking." Prior Experience: Stanford Hall Council meetings; Corrigan is the dorm's food commis­sioner. IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: An accessible alumni-student network designed to help students use the "Notre Dame family" when job-hunting, giving a scope that extends beyond South Bend and Chicago; putting campus phones in student parking lots. Most Feasible: Re-painting the crosswalks around campus. Least Feasible: Changing the 24-hour detex systems for the female dorms. WHERE THEY STAND 
Student-administration Relations -Will look into the idea of a student sitting on the Board of Trustees. Inner-workings of Government -They want to further empower the Hall Presidents' Council, which the duo says is "the students' arena" for open communication. Gender Relations -They want to eliminate the 24-hour lock on dormitory doors, saying it makes random "drop-in" visits inconvenient and thus deterring one gender from visiting the other's dorms. Diversity -Did not enumerate a specific course of action, but said they will investigate the issue and get the ball rolling. Off-campus Students -Will encourage the involvement of the off-campus co-presi­dents. because "their opinions mean as much. They may not live on-campus, but they still spend half the day here." 
What We Like: They have logical and practical reasons for putting each idea on their plat­form, and they can articulate these reasons. Much of their platform deals with "eliminating common inconveniences," which indicates a real ear for what students are complaining about. What We're Worried About: Despite their enthusiasm and conviction that experience is immaterial, these two are underestimating,_ the am.ount of time it takes to get a solid grasp of the bureaucracy of student government. In these two positions, there's no room for uncertain­ty or a period of turmoil after the transition. 
Kevin 
CORRIGAN 
Brian


DOHERTY 










N 

page 4 
Michele 

COSTELLO 

Class/Major: Costello is a junior governmenVinternational studies major and llesburgh Public Policy concentrator; Boyd is a sophomore theology major. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "Committed to Action." Most Important Idea: To continue service to the community. Costello and Boyd want to spearhead a fundraising poster project for the Center for the Homeless similar to the "Irish Impact" series; utilize the ex-officio position for a student member on the Board of Trustees. Most Feasible: They emphasized the feasibility of a non-voting student member on the Board of Trustees and bringing Adam Sandler to campus. Costello and Boyd's platform involved three months of research which leads them to believe that all of their ideas arc feasible. Least Feasible: Voting student member on the Board of Trustees. Notable Quote: Costello, on being the only female presidential candidate: "''m running because I feel! am the most qualified. Experience has nothing to do with gender." Prior Experience: Costello has worked in the Office of the President as the assistant pub­licity chair and on the service committee. She was also the sophomore class vice president and a member of SUB's entertainment committee. Boyd is Keough's senator and has served on the ethics committee, Campus Club Council and the student government reform committee. 
IN OUR WORDS The Best Ideas: A support group desigQed to aid the student member on the Board of Trustees. This group would help research and write proposals to bring the Board -to join the administration, they should function like it. Most Feasible: Re~tarting the Irish Impact poster project for charity. Least Feasible: A student discount card to be used at South Bend area stores. WHERE THEY STAND Student-administration Relations-Utilize University by-laws to get a student on the Board of Trustees now; will work to get a voting student member on tlw Board in the future. Inner-workings of Government -Start formal information sessions so that the senate and Executive Cabinet arc updated on which the other is working on or have completed. Gender Relations-They did not address this issue. Diversity -Use resources of other campuses by hosting a regional conference; morn joint activities between multicultural clubs and student government. They emphasize the non­Catholic voice as a minority. Off-campus Students -Other than increasing the role of the on·-campus senator, they did not have concrete or long-range plans for ofT-campus students. 
What We Like: Commitment to service. Government should be about serving the community. What We're Worried About: The closed and covert nature of Boyd's ethics cornmittm~ raises concerns about his ability to lead the Senate. The team has few long-term goals to eon­tribute to the vision of this university and its students, especially in the realm of gender rela­tions and diversity; dubs may lose autonomy if Costello tries to increase their connections with student government. 
Class/Major: Leon is a junior government/international studies major; Grunow is a junior mechanical engineering major. 
IN THEIR WORDS Campaign Slogan: "Bringing student government back to the students." Most Important Idea: Improving students' perenption of student government by increasing the number of rnsolutions accepted by the administration, in part by attaching to each resolu­tion a presnntation that addrnsses possible objections on legal, theological or canonical grounds. Most Feasible: Creating a student director for SafeHide, which maintains student control for the program and allows grcatnr scheduling flexibility, which privatizing would not allow. Least Feasible: Satellitn Grah-N-Go stations in academic buildings around campus. Notable Quote: "We as studnnt'i nend to be more involved in our government; as people who go to a Catholic university, we need to care." Prior Experience: Leon servnd on Studnnt Senatn and CLC, chaired the senate ethics com­milton and CLC's du Lac revisions committee. Grunow is the student government-senate liaison. 
IN OUR WOHDS 

The Best Ideas: Utilizing the Executive Cabinet to focus attention on gender and racial issues, writing better-resnarched resolutions, convincing administration to convert current bookstorn into a social setting for students. Most Feasible: Studnnt control of SafeHide, returning the Huddle's closing time to 3 a.m. Least Feasible: Convnrting currnnt bookstore into a social setting for student'>. 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-administration Relations -Will bn "realistic" in pushing for a non-voting stu­dnnt mmnber of the Board of Trustees. Inner-workings of Government -The pn~sidential veto should only be usnd with the aim of forcing the senate and the president to work more closely to "build a consensus" on an issue. It should not bP usN! as an end to an issue. Gender Relations -Usn Exncutive Cabinet to ensum coordination of event'> and contribute to programming; Use Board of Trustnes report to examine problems of gender; forums with Notn! Dame Security to highlight the reality that raJW and assault crimes do happen on eampus. Diversity -The Executive! Cabinnt should coordinate a campus-wide schedule of events and olli~r programming. The Board ofTrustnes report could also examine problems of race. Off-campus Students -Designate a delegate within the Executive Cabinet's student life committN~ to li1eus on on·-campus issues; use ads at Alumni-Senior Club to publicize events to ofl"-eampus student'>. 
What We Like: Lmm and Grunow know the ins and outs of student government, and their plan to add f.,'l-n<tter force to resolutions through better research should be done regardless of who wins. What We're Worried About: When Leen has a point to make, he tends to be aggressive ­pnrhaps too aggressive. In their interview, Leen dominated Grunow, a quality which may cause problems when the time comes to build the consensus that Leen seeks. 
Mark 
LEEN 
Sarah 
GRUNOW 









• 
page 5 
Tim 

FITZSIMONS 
Brian 

MURPHY 

Class/Major: FitzSimons is a junior government/international studies major, and Murphy is a junior American studies major. Both are concentrating in the Hesburgh Program. 
IN THEIR WORDS 

Campaign Slogan: "Vote FitzSimons and Murphy." Most Important Idea: Improvement of the Women's Resource Center through the addi­tion of programming that targets both sexes. Most Feasible: Inclusion of off-campus presidents in the Hall Presidents Council. Least Feasible: A student as a voting member on the University's Board of Trustees. Notable Quote: "It is important that the student body president and vice president are ful­filling commitments and representing themselves and Notre Dame well to the public."_ Prior Experience: FitzSimons and Murphy currently serve together on the Hall Presidents Council as the presidents of Sorin and Keenan Halls, respectively. Both served as members ·of their hall councils in previous years. 
IN OUR WORDS 

The Best Ideas: A colloquium on the millennium for the students of the University as a means for long-term continuity of ideas from the undergraduate population; mandatory con­tribution of drivers to SafeRide by clubs receiving more than $500 of University funds. Most Feasible: The aforementioned proposition to expand the focus of programs emanat­ing from the Women's Resource Center. Least Feasible: The renovation of the basement of Hesburgh Library to allow for a more comfortable atmosphere and higher quality refreshments. 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-administration Relations -Intend to pursue the seating of a voting member on the Board of Trustees, but have indicated their willingness to compromise with the board and the administration if necessary. Inner-workings of Government -Their experience does not suggest a great deal of understanding of the specific functions and processes of the system, but their research into these areas of concern may prove complementary to their work with HPC. Gender Relations -Genuinely concerned with this increasingly prominent campus issue. They offer concrete ideas toward the improvement in this regard, such as further development of the role of the Women's Resource Center and increased 24-hour social space. Diversity -Address the issue with a number of goals such as the streamlining of the gov­ernment's diversity department and the cultural arts committee to eliminate budgetary con­flict, improved access to, and publicity of, prejudice reduction workshops. Ott-campus Students -Show concern for the recent lack of communication between stu­dent government and off-campus students; intend to include the off-campus presidents in HPC. 
What We Like: FitzSimons and Murphy offer a refreshing combination of dynamism and perspective. They possess a far-reaching vision of student interaction with the administration and the Board of Trustees, while maintaining a realistic understanding of the day-to-day com­mitments of holding the executive positions in student government. What We're Worried About: Despite their apparent energy and experience as leaders of their respective dorms, Murphy and FitzSimons do not have frrst-hand experience with the procedure and functions of policy-affecting bodies such as the Student Senate and CLC. While their attitude and work-ethic would be ideal for leaders of those governmental institutions, a better working knowledge of the system could prove critical. 
Class/Major: Poirier, a sophomore, is a government/international studies and history double major. Smith is a freshman ALPP and economics double major. 
IN THEIR WORDS 

Campaign Slogan: "Drop the Bomb in '98." Most Important Idea: Creating more on-campus activities so that students are less enticed to go to off-campus establishments. Most Feasible: "There is no one singular plank of our platform that starids out as being more feasjble than any other," Poirier said, emphasizing h{s belief that it is both possible and crucial to plan on-campus activities on weekends. Least Feasible: Converting Stepan Center into a discotecque. Notable Quote: "We want to end the 'Griffin and Nass Club.' It's a quasi-yacht club.'' Prior Experience: Poirier sits on the gender relations committee and attends Zahm Hall Council; Smith has none. 
IN OUR WORDS 

The Best Ideas: In light of the recent Bridget's raid, it makes sense that Poirier and Smith are looking to pack the weekends with on-campus activities. Most Feasible: See above. Least Feasible: Getting Sting to grapple with some World Wrestling Federation com­petitors in the Joyce Center. 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-administration Relations -This ticket is against putting a student on the Board of Trustees, saying that selecting the student is a problem and the position might not be as active as people hope. Inner-workings of Government -Poirier/Smith did not comment. Gender Relations -Publicizing activities to foster interest among students in improving gender relations. Diversity-"This is the admissions office's area," Poirier said, adding that their ticket wants to deal better with the level of diversity Notre Dame currently has. Ott-campus Students -Getting an outpost set up in an off-campus area, making information available at the whim of the off-campus student. 
What We Like: Their desire to be active members of Notre Dame's student communi­ty is appealing because they are comparatively young. At times, Poirier showed legiti­mate concern that student government is cliquish and isolated, offering his ticket's lack of experience as a remedy for this. What We're Worried About: The platform is missing concrete ideas. A desire to avoid a club-like student government should not preclude devising definitive goals for effecting change both in that area and around campus. 
Walter 
OIRIER 
Gregory 
S. 
11.·\.. ··., 1:.-y··.~.·H.··· " "... ;' ..J ,· .. ; .··' . : .r . •• 


N THE CANDIDATES 
page 6 


Matt 
TOMKO 
Ross 
KERR 

Monday, February 9, 1998 
Class/Major: Tomko is a junior ALPP major; Kerr is a sophomore economics and Spanish double major. 
IN THEIR WORDS 
Campaign Slogan: "No More Bull." Most Important Idea: Giving out lottery tickets for a half-court shot at Midnight Madness to win a partial or full scholarship to Notre Dame, paid for with alumni contributions. Most Feasible Idea: Getting a non-voting student member on the Board of Trustees; the outline for this "already exists in the University by-laws." Least Feasible Idea: Getting a voting student member. Notable Quote: "We're not politicians, but we have proven that we can get the job done." Prior Experience: Tomko is the Knott Hall student senator and sits or has sat on the senate committees for residence life, multiculturalism and gender relations, and the financial manage­ment board. Kerr is the student senator from Siegfried, and is on the residence life, oversight and ad hoc committee for the student bill of rights. He is also the senate-SUB relator. 
IN OUR WORDS 
The Best Ideas: The realistic approach toward a non-voting student member on the Board of Trustees before trying for a voting member; town hall meetings to really "hear the voice of the students." Most Feasible: Expand SafeRide to Thursday nights and make it more reliable. Least Feasible: Converting the Hesburgh Library basement into a cafe and keeping it open on a 24-hour basis. 
WHERE THEY STAND 
Student-administration Relations -They believe a student sitting on the Board of Trustees provides an instrumental, unified student voice behind the offices of student body president and vice president. They believe that the pursuit of a non-voting member of the board is the best initial course of action. Inner-workings of Government -More interaction between Student Senate and llall Presidents' Council. Gender Relations -More communication between the administrations of Notre Dame and Saint Mary's to make Saint Mary's women more a part of the Notre Dame family. Diversity -They cited more involvement with the diversity chair of student government. They intend to foster further ties between OMSA and student government. Off-campus Students-They said it is the off-campus students' responsibility to keep up with campus events; there would be an information desk for them in the student government office. They also expressed interest in conducting a study of why students are choosing to live off campus and using the results of such a study to improve incentives for living in the resi­dence halls. 
What We Like: Their platform is very well-researched, probably more so than the other candidates. Kerr's dynamic personality would be effective for leading the Student Senate; Tomko's behind-the-scenes research would help him get the job done. What We're Worried About: Despite the aforementioned, this ticket does not have very concrete ideas about gender relations or diversity. Also, their lack of concern for off-campus students' needs is not a good quality for leadership of the student body. 
Class/Major: Williams is a junior history and philosophy double major; Reising is a sophomore communications and government/international studies double major. 
IN THEIR WORDS 

Campaign Slogan: "Making it Happen." Most Important Idea: To improve race relations at Notre Dame by attracting promi­nent speakers to campus to address issues of diversity. Most Feasible: Improving the availability and accessibility of food services and increas­ing the convenience of book purchases with the use of a more extensive on-line service. Least Feasible: They feel their research proves the feasibility of all of their goals. Notable Quote: "We still haven't seen what the (new) constitution can do." Prior Experience: Williams represents Zahm Hall in the Student Senate and is a mem­ber of the Campus Life Council; he also chairs the CLC's diversity committee. As a sopho­more, Williams sat on HPC as co-president of Zahm Hall. Reising represents P.E. in the Student Senate, and also has experience with the Student Union Board and, as a freshman, served as a class representative and class vice president. 
IN OUR WORDS 

The Best Ideas: Implementation of a comprehensive diversity presentation involving race, gender, religion and sexual preference in the context of Freshman Orientation; addi­tion of late-night dining hall hours for snacking and caffeine. Most Feasible: The aforementioned diversity presentation. Least Feasible: Commercialization of LaFortune for improved food options. 
WHERE THEY STAND 

Student-administration Relations -Williams and Reising feel that it is "over­whelmingly important" to place a student of the University's Board of Trustees and would push for a voting member. They also hope to resolve issues of enumerated student rights in regards to academics and interaction with Student Affairs. Inner-workings of Government -Williams and Reising agree with c'onstitutional ehanges that emphasize the separation of polky-making and programming within the Student Senate and llall Presidents' Council respectively. Gender Relations -Very attentive to problem of gender relations at ND/SMC; pursu­ing expanded c.ooperation with SMC student government; access to 24-hour space also a key issue. Heising is a member of the senate's gender relations committee. Diversity -Genuine concern for multicultural groups. Ideas include introductory preju­dice reduction workshops, attraction of nationally prominent speakers and increased inter­action between students and female professors that are both insightful and feasible. Off-campus Students -Acknowledging the inevitability of students moving off cam­pus, they plan to distribute a regular newsletter, accentuating the importance of contact between the vice president and the ofT-campus senator to keep those students informed. 
What We Like: Their passion for making Notre Dame a better place lends credibility to the long-term goals of improving gender relations and diversity. They bring the right amount of experience, while simultaneously staying connected to student wants and needs. 
Brandon 
WILLIAMS 
Julie 

REISING
What We Worry About: Williams is not as polished as some, though this brings with it a straightforwardness that politician-types often lack. 


--~-------~----------~--~ 
N THE CONSTITUTION 
Monday, February 9. 1998 page 7 

OF SOUND WORD AND PROCEDURE 
After a year of ironing, committees predict fairly smooth course in road ahead 
ByMATTHPWLOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
On April 1, 1997, the new Constitution of the Undergraduate Student Body, was adopted by the Student Senate. 
After 10 months. the new structure has shown both strengths and weaknesses. But, according to members of the original student government reform committee, the structure is strong, it simply needs clarification in some minor areas. 
"The senate has worked," said Brendan Kelly, former chair of the student government reform committee. "By making it up the way we did with a senator for every hall, and removing the senators from the hall council aspects of government, the senate has become empowered and has gotten a lot of stufl' done. 
"Many of the new senators are very eager to get involved," he added. "The reforms have even initiated a reform of the Campus Life Council." 
Another strong aspect that the members noted was the increased representation in the Student Senate. 
"I like how the new structure has worked," said Mark Leon. former district three senator and current presiden­tial candidate. "There is a lot more representation in the current Student Senate. You go to a hall and everybody knows who their senator is. When I was a senator, nobody knew who I was." 
The Student Senate has borne the brunt of the constitu­tional revisions. Under the old constitution, the Student Senate was presided over by the student body president, and contained members of SUB, the Club Coordination Council and the Hall Presidents' Council. Currently, the only members of the senate are those in the separate office of "senator." Each dorm is allowed one senator. 
"Prior to the current student government, there was not good representation for the students on the senate," Sam Gaglio, assistant dean of the College of Business Administration, and a guest member of the reform com­mittee said. "Some arms of the government were going oiT and doing their own things. It was very hard for all the students to be represented on the senate." 
In the opinion of many student leaders, the aspects of the constitution that need to be ironed out have been handled by the senate's oversight committee. 
"Some things were proposed by the oversight commit­tee in the last senate meeting," said Matt Mamak, senator from Keenan Hall and chair of the oversight committee. "I think that the constitution itself is a very long, tedious document and as we have been amending it, we have been fixing that. 
"The part that talks about the difference between an action and a resolution, where the president can decide not to approve an action and the senate can override that was slightly confusing," he continued. "We have cleared that up and it is explained in the constitution that the sen­ate was acting on its own power in that instance." 
A constitutional review board was established as a means of checking the progress of the constitution in its first year. "I think that it was too haphazard in its con­struction," argued Kelly. "With this committee, you have to be really sure of what you are doing. Here you have an unelectcd body that can overturn what you do. It needs a lot more coordination." 
Another problem that has been expressed, by some of the candidates for student body president, is the lack of involvement by the llall Presidents' Council in any policy making decisions. 
"The constitution has taken a lot of power to make decisions away from the hall presidents," said Mark Fennell. former Kennan Hall co-president and current co­chair of the IIPC. "Some of the presidents have been dis­appointed over the lack of control that they have over pol­icy, but I think that we have fixed that weak link of com­munication." 
"It was a conscious decision to make the Hall Presidents' Council less of a policy body and more of a programming body," Kelly agreed. "The hall presidents approved the new constitution. Their job is to plan activi­ties for their dorms. In taking away the policy, we have just taken away something that is a burden to them." 
Every onn of tim leaders agreed that many of the prob­lems with the constitution have been ironed out in the last 1 0 months and that the process has become stream­lined. 











VOTING 

N 
On-campus students: 11 a.m.-1 p.m. and 5-7 p.m. in the dorms. 
Off-campus students: 11 a.m.­1 p.m. in the Huddle; 1 :30 to 5 p.m. in the C1 parking lot. Run·off: Thursday, same times and places. 
page 8 • Monday, February 9, 1998 
Debates 

continued from page 1 
Senate and Hall Presidents' Council to address thn issue, thernby "incorporating all parts of the University." 
The ticket of Williams/Heising was ques­tionml numerous timns by both panelists and audienen mem­bnrs on platform spneifics sueh as diversity, utilization of the Executive Cabinet. future reports to the Board of Trustees, and the laek of earn­pus social adivities. The pair used these opportunities to expound on their vision for the University and their plans to implement that vision, citing diversity as orH~ of the central issues on tlwir platform. 
"Diversity is a huge issue because a diverse campus is one you r.an learn from," stat­ed Williams. who went on to enumerate specific means of improving ethnic and gender relations on earnpus including a more aceessible prejudice reduction workshop, the follow through on a Latino studies program eurrently being researched. a freshman orien­tation diversity presentation as well as increased access for women to prominent female leaders in a mentor-like pro­gram. 
Several platforms tackled the issues of diversity and a stu­dent bill of rights. The ticket of Cesaro/Selak was one of the few whose panelist question allowed them to give concrete ideas as to following through on such broad promises as stu­dent rights. 
"We want to expand the role of the judicial council to let students know there are those to enumerah~ rights for them," said Selak. "We also want to create a new position to help students appeal parking viola­tions." 
Cesaro continued, "It's not just disciplinary rights but also those such as the right to a fair teacher assessment." 
Another issue addressed on almost every platform was the important role of Safe Ride, although tickets saw a differ­ent means of best implement­ing the student service. While Cesaro/Solak favored privatiz­ing it, Tomko/Kerr believed that this move "wouldn't be any better than calling a cab. 
"Volunteering is as high now as ever ... The money is allo­cated in the budget for SafeHide," stated Tomko. "Now there is money to eontinue it, and there is so mueh support we should continue it, extend­ing it to Thursday and other nights." 
The pair also stressed the importance of making student government accessible through the implementation of town 


hall meetings and an advisory desk in the student govern" ment office. 
"We want to get students involved; along with this, it's good to get back to students," said Tomko. "No one now hears baek about what student government has done." 
The Costello/Boyd ticket, forced to deal with the last­minute vice-presidential sub­stitution of A.J. Boyd for Adrian Cuellar, was the only ticket to give attention to ser­vice as a primary focus of stu-
WilliaDls 
continued from page 1 
to-day details. 
However, a fundamental dif­ference between the two tickets is their experience on the sec­ond floor of LaFortune. Williams serves as a member of Student Senate and the Campus Life Council, where he chairs the diversity committee, and Hcising is also a student sena­tor. 
While FitzSimons and Murphy have experience as presidents of their respective dorms and seem to have well-coneeived plans for bridging the communi­cation gap bl~tween senators and hall presidents, experience on Student Senate and CLC is a major faetor as student govern­ment moves into its second year with a new constitution. 
Moreover, the president chairs the CLC, while the vice president leads the Student Senate. Williams and Heising, unlike FitzSimons and Murphy, have the background for those respective posts. 
Consequently, The Observer endorses Williams and Hcising for student body president and vice president. 

The William~Heising platform centers on improving relations between raees and wmders on campus, something that deserves attention in light or the 1w11nts of reeent semestnrs. 
As ehairman of the CLC's diversity committee. Williams is in an ideal position to continue work on that front. The duo plans to develop prejudice reduction workshops for stu­dent leaders and the rest of thn student body. diversity prnsen­tations, and relatnd follow-up programs for incoming fresh­mnn. Moreover, their eoncern is heartfelt; as Williams put it, "Any blight on Notre Dame's race relations is tragic." At the debates last night, Williams noted that a possible idea for a future Board of Trustees report was the declining level of minority enrollment and rate of retention; he would not have known that was an issue worth examining if he had not already done the research. 
Heising adds similar insight into gender issues in that she serves on the senate's gender relations committee. The ticket proposes creating more oppor­tunities for female students to 
'WE HAVE A PASSION 
FOR, AND COMMIT­MENT TO, THE UNIVERSITY 
-THE PLACE AND THE IDEA 
THAT IT ASPIRFS TO BE.' 
BRANDON WILLIAMS 
interact with prominent female professors, and it says it has talked with the incoming stu­dent body president at Saint Mary's about relations between the two schools. 
Heising also appears capable of leading the Student Senate. Initial fears that she could not wme allayed at the debates last night, when she handled with grace a less-than-fair question from an audience member. 
Besides the lofty goals of improving relations between genders and races, Williams and Heising also otTer ideas that make everyday life at Notre Dame more palatable. A cam­pus shuttle, more days of opera­tion for SafcHide, access to snacks in the dining hall after mr.al hours, on-line book pur­chases and a danee marathon "to get your swerve on for a local eharity" highlight their platform. 
The blend of foresight and 

feasibility is also apparent in the FitzSimons/Murphy ticket. From creating a millennium committee that examines the changes needed for Notre Dame to compete in the 21st century to labeling rows in the parking lots "Rockne Row," for example, so that people can find their cars more easily, the ticket offers a full array of ideas. Having clubs provide volunteers for SafeRide as a way of "giving back to Notre Dame" and increasing the links of commu­nication between off-campus students and student govern­ment are also commendable. 
But again, FitzSimons and Murphy's inexperience raises doubts about their ability to lead the senate and CLC. Much like Mary Gillard this year, either of these two would be worthwhile chiefs of stafT if they are not elected: 
As another term begins, stu­dent government sits at a cross­roads. A package of vision for a better Notre Dame, feasible goals, and the experience to guide the student body toward those goals is what is needed. More than any other ticket, Williams and Reising otTer it. 
Editor's note: Until he announced his candidacy, Brandon Williams had worked for The Observer's Viewpoint section as a mid-level editor since September ofhis freshman year. 
Although it would seem a con­flict of interests for us to endorse the Williams/Reising ticket because of Williams' con­nection to The Observer-and we were tempted to eliminate him from consideration because of that perceived conflict -we felt that Williams should not be penalized for his contributions to The Observer in the last three years. and that the strength of his candidacy alone justifies our endorsement ofhis ticket. 
dent government. 

"We have the belief that civic leadership is service to the constituents and to the com­munity," said Boyd. 
In the questioning period, the pair addressed the policy issue of placing a student rep­resentative on the Board of Trustees, an issue common to most platforms. 
"We want a voice of the stu­dents at the highest level pos­sible," stated Costello. "But when we go in there we have to well-informed and intelli­
gent ideas ... so [the student! would need a support staff." 
Several ideas overarched the various campaigns, including the placnment of a student on the Board of Trustees, the con­tinuation of SafeHide ih some form, the increased communi­cation between student gov­ernment and students and the need for a student bill of rights. 
Brian Reinthaler contributed to this report. 
Tickets 
continued from page 2 

of Boyd's senate ethics commit­tee raises concerns about his ability to lead the senate, and the ticket has few long-term ideas for addressing gender and racial issues. 
Kevin Corrigan and Brian Doherty have focused on "elimi­nating the common inconve­niences" such as installing tele­phones in the parking lots, re­painting crosswalks, and allow­ing greater flexibility with the detex system so that students can make more surprise visits to friends of the opposing gen­der. But although they had a sound response to the fear that they do not have enough experi­ence -they say they would get to work immediately after the run-off election Thursday in order to learn as much as possi­ble -it is just too difficult to learn everything about student government from scratch within two months. 
Walter Poirier and Gregory Smith arc a sophomore and freshman, respectively. That alone should say enough. Without experience and with a platform that lacks concrete ideas, they are better off not winning. 
They do, however, make a good point when stressing the need for more on-campus activ­ities so that students are less enticed to go to ofT-eampus establishments. 
Cuellar drops out as Costello's VP; Boyd steps in 
Observer Staff Report 

Adrian Cuellar, the vice-presidential candidate on Michele Costello's ticket. withdrew from the election Friday, citing a personal family situation. 
A.J. Boyd, the senator from Keough Hall and chairman of the senate ethics committee, has taken Cuellar's plaee on the tick­et. 
"Due to an unforeseen and irreconcilable personal family sit­uation, I am forced to withdraw my candidacy with regret," Cuellar said in a statement issued Friday. "Miehele will contin­ue the campaign along with A.J ., who wHJ only add to the strength of the ticket. 
'The goals of the ticket will remain identicaL The ticket has my continuing support, and I fully intend to be a k(ly player in the Costello/Boyd administration next year. A.J.'s involvement in formation of the platform as well as his extensive experience [in student government] demonstrate the contributions A.J. will make to the ticket. 
"l am asking everyone to vote on Monday, and I will continue to strongly campaign for the Costello/Boyd ticket for the remainder of the election," he said. 
Monday, February 9, 1998 
• VIDEO PICK Of THE WEEK 

By JOHN BARRY 
Accent Movie Critic 
Every once in a while, a film comes along which makes you ponder the vastness of the universe and understand the intricacies within the human mind and soul; a movie that spans all human emotions, inspiring great thoughts and actions; a movie which rivals the greats of the modern era, such as "Schindler's List," "The English Patient," and "Braveheart." Okay, "Austin Powers" isn't one of those movies, but it's damn funny, and you should definitely see it if you haven't already. 
I don't know about you, but sometimes I just need a break from movies that are "Critically Acclaimed." You have to bare in mind that "Critically Acclaimed" just means that lifeless out­of-touch twarps like Siskel and Ebert couldn't understand it so they thought it must be really really smart, so they felt obliged to give it Two Thumbs Way Up. Well, there's more to enjoying a good movie then being confused or bored. Sure, sometimes it can be okay to watch a film that p~ople .discuss in social situations by saying thmgs hke "It had great scenery," which is nice, but. lends to films of over three hours in length. Wfl re collegfl students -we need fast entertain­ment. not "Epics" which take a whole day to watch and a whole week to fully understand. So, I'm recommending a movie for everyone's Beer and Pizza Night. a movie that's just plain fun­"Austin Powers." 
From the opening musical sequtJnce where Austin !Mike Myers) first appears, all groovy in his velvet suit and Italian boots. you'll be instantly entertained by the 1967 spy hero·_ an intcrna­tion<tl James Bond who's the object of every woman's desires, especially in his hometown of swinging London. Austin nearly captures his nemesis. Dr. Evil(also played by Mike Myers), but the clever bad guy escapes into a rocket ship (hid­den as a Big Boy) with a cryogenic freezer, deter­mined to get even with Austin Powers in the future. Flash forward to 1997. 
Dr. Evil struggles with the challenges of being a bad guy in the 90s. He invents the evil scheme of making these things called "lasers" which are intense beams of light -using these "lasers" he will put a hole in the "ozone layer" which will in time cause an increase in skin cancer ... unless the world pays him a hefty ran­
som of 1 million dollars! Needless to say he is quite upset when his col­league, Number Two, informs him that this has 
already happened, and that 1 million dollars is r:··;·;"'v~·,"'u\t~t 
not quite what it used to be. Dr. Evil also finds out !niltu>.•rl11titn~>.!L that he has a teenage a son, Scott Evil, who feels contempt towards his father for having deserted his parenting responsibilities. Eventually the father and son join a group therapy session to deal with their problems. 
Austin works along side Vanessa Kensington (played to perfection by Elizabeth Hurley) who has to help Austin adjust to a world where free love isn't the common practice. As Austin and Vanessa eventually begin to click, and a relation­ship seems possible, Vanessa confronts Austin ~hat, alt~o_ugh she feels guilty, she can't help feel­mg susp1c10us about Austin and the Italian side­kick of Number Two. Showing just how unfamil­!.ar with the 90s he is, Austin gleefully responds .. ,•.,. tiri'J.e she gets
Oh no Vanessa, you have every right to be suspi­the moment.
cious. I shagged her. I shagged her rotten, baby! 
·.• . ott. Cady's 
Yeah!!" 
Bobbie hadGene Siskel quips that the plot, where the bad Monu::a in a9d Carlyguys hijack nuclear weapons to hold the world 

'~:,~:;.· ··::::::~-~. 

hostage, is a very weak plot. Well, guess what, Gene -you're just missing more of the humor. "Austin Powers" is a great satire of James Bond movies, as it both mocks and honors such films which always had plots of villains with unoriginal hostage schemes and slow moving, easily escapable death traps for the heroes. 
The movie just works on so many levels! The enthusiasm of Myers is amazing, and along with ?is concise and flowing writing, he gives the film 1ts energy. James Bond fans will get a kick out of the many references to the 007 movies. "Austin Powers" is smart enough not to exaggerate the 60s, but instead to pretty much show the clothing and other cultural aspects as they were, because that's where the humor really lies. 
Hey 'Accent' Fans! 

Are you looking for a creative outlet? Are you an interested in becom­ing a staff member for the highly touted Accent section? Wanna share your observations and thoughts about movies, music, and campus life with the rest of campus? Work for The Observer! We are now accepting applications for Associate Accent Editor, Assistant Accent Editors, and Copy Editors. Underclassmen are encouraged to apply. 
Interested? Contact Joey at 631-4540 today! 


c~ 


I. Titanic 
2. 
Great Expectations 

3. 
Good Will Hunting 

4. 
Spice World 

5. 
As Good As It Gets 

6. 
Desperate Measures 

7. 
Wag the Dog 

8. 
Deep Rising 

9. 
Fallen 

10. 
Hard Rain 


Source: AP 
I. Face/Off 
2. 
Contact 

3. 
Con Air 

4. 
Conspiracy Theory 

5. 
My Best Friend's Wedding 

6. 
Spawn 

7. 
Chasing Amy 

8. 
Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery 

9. 
Men In Black 

10. 
Soul Food 


Source: Billboard Online 
;. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, February 9, 1998 
•NBA 

Jordan defeats flu, leads East to All-Star victory 
Associated Press 
I NEW YORK 
Even if this All-Star game 
was his last, Michael Jordan 
left no doubt he's still the best. 
In a crossroads game between All-Stars of this gen­eration and the next, Jordan showed Kobe Bryant a thing or two as he won his third All­Star MVP award in the East's 135-114 victory over the West on Sunday. 
Before a celebrity-studded crowd at the arena known as the "Mecca of Basketball," Jordan and Bryant seized the spotlight and faced off mano-a­mano to the delight of all. 
Jordan, called the "All-Star of All-Stars" by commissioner David Stern as he received his award, led all scorers with 23 points. Bryant led the West with 18. 
But it was so much more than Jordan outscoring Bryant. It was the greatest ever and the youngest ever. 
It was Jordan clearing every­one out so he could take Bryant one-on-one, then losing the kid with a head fake and scoring on a finger roll that left Bryant grinning in shame. 
It was Bryant coming right back at him, drilling a pair of 3-pointers and barely execut­ing a behind-the-back fast break dribble ending in per­haps the first transition hook shot in an All-Star game since the game was last played in New York 30 years ago. 

It was Jordan popping a jumper in Bryant's face, then doing it again from the other side of the court. 
It was Bryant pulling a crossover dribble on Jordan, who bent but didn't break and did not allow himself to get burned. 
It was Jordan jamming and Bryant outjamming, especially on a 360-degree spin midway through the first quarter that served notice that this would be an All-Star game worth 
watching  the  whole  way  
though.  
It  was  Jordan  playing  

through almost the entire fourth quarter while Bryant stayed seated in what appeared to be an act of defer­ence. 
And it was Jordan and Bryant embracing at center court after the final buzzer, a snapshot moment worth remembering forever. 
The pace stayed brisk almost the entire way, the East never surrendering a comfortable lead it built in the first half. 
Jordan helped ice the game after checking back early in the fourth, hitting a 3-pointer and a finger-roll that preceded Reggie Miller's 3-pointer from right in front of Spike Lee's seat in an18-1 run. 
From there on out it was wide open, the only suspense being whether the 19-year-old Bryant would return and whether Jordan would try to take him once more. 
It didn't work out that way, but it really didn't have to. 
What had happened in the first three quarters was plenty enough for evetyone. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
• Classifieds 
NOTICES 
000 THE COPY SHOP 000 LaFortune Student Center WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, 
AND WEEKENDS!!! Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight Frl 7:30am -7:00pm Sat Noon -6:00pm Sun Noon -Midnight 
CALL 631-COPY 
ARE YOU A SURVIVOR OF 
RAPE? Sex Offense Services is 
offering a free. confidential rape 
support group for undergraduate 
and graduate women at Notre 
Dame. Saint Mary's, I USB, and 
Holy Cross. Please call 283-1308 
for more information. 

ILOST & FOUND I 
Lost Tl-85 calculator in Fitz Comp Lab. PLEASE call4x1067. 
WANTED 
ALASKA SUMMER EMPLOYMENT -Fishing industry. Excellent earn­ings & benefits potential. Male/Female. No experience nec­essary. Ask us how! 517-324-3116 ext. A55841 NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT­Discover how to work in America's Parks, Forests & Wildlife Preserves. Competitive wages + bonuses! Seasonal/year-round. For informa­tion, call: 517-324-3111 Ext. N55842 
Tutor needed to work with high school student preparing for GED. Areas to review are govt, algebra, geometry, & writing. Prefer tutor to come to house, but student can drive to tutor. Call 272-8235. 
FOR RENT 
House For Rent Two Blocks From Campus 4-5 Bedroom. Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and Off Street Parking. June 98 for Summer, August for Fall. FREE MONITORED SECURI­TY SYSTEM! Call289-4712 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR JPW AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 MALE LOOKING FOR MALE TO SHARE 2-BDRM HOME. INC. WASHER/DRYER, PHONE, SATELITE TV. 219-289-1357. 

98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar. sand V-ball ct. washer/dryer. 1628 Portage Av. 234-3831 273-0482 
Available in Aug. 3-4 Bedroom 2 Baths Washer/Dryer, Furnished Attached Garage 683-6591 
ROOM $128+util Share house w/ grad stu Good neighborhd 280-527 4 
ATTENTION JUNIORS AND PAR­ENTS DUE TO CANCELLATION THE ORCHARD COTTAGE IS AVAILABLE FOR JUNIOR PAR­ENTS WEEKEND.15 MIN. FROM CAMPUS1LR1BDR1BATH SM. KITCHEN. WITH THE SOFA BED THERE IS ROOM FOR 4. CONTINENTAL BRFST. IN BUSINESS 7 YRS. $85/NIGHT CALL 2883923 
BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY 219-291-7153 
Studio for Rent: First floor furnished modern studio -Auten Rd. $425 mo. util included. Close to right tenant options negotiable 277­2211 days deposit and refer. 
Facilitator: l:'at Reynolds is a Saint Mary's graduate, who taught Theology, then married Bill Reynolds, raised six children, and served as a dinical hospital chaplain. Following Bill's death in 1984, Pat's own grieving experience eventually led her to establish the University's loss program. With a Master's of Science degree in counselling, Pat now practices in Vera Beach, Florida where she keeps busy redoing houses, counselling, teaching, and enhancing her education in such areas as mediation. 

"Summer had ended but without my mother. I worked up a little excitement for my first year at Notre Dame-but her death was too recent. I cried in my pillow and then my roommate lost patience with me. I began medicating with alcohol. It was disastrous. In Febmary, I made the GIUEF 
WORKSHOP, found other Darners who 
were hurting, and the healing began " 
Jan, N.D. '95 
For further information, or to let us know you are attending, call: Mirella Contreras '94 at 631-5940 or Scott Leaman '98 at 634-1942 
Thank you to Paul Pendergast for helping to underwrite this conference. His support ofthis program is in remembrance of his wife Judy. 
AII Notre Dame and St. Mary's students are encouraged to attend. Sons and daughters offaculty and staffare also welcome. 
mike k, don't mess with deep blue or you'll get more of the same. 
D. B. 

HEY AMY, LOOK OUT TOMOR­ROW IS A BIG DAY FOR SUZV, LOTS OF DRINKING WILL BE GOING ON. DO YOURSELF A FAVOR LOOK OUT!!! REMEMBER CALIFORNIA? 
LOVE D.J. 

a sink? i'll have to chalk that one up for the record books. ;-) 
today, exactly 20 years ago. a leg­end was born; a man know through out the universe only as "THE PAN­THER". He lives among us. Adore him, for he will be gone before long. Tonight, celebrate the birth of 3A's own personal demi-god. Happy 20th Martin, hope you have fun. 
colleen, what a wondertul time I had. i had no clue that so much could be resolved in one night! I can hardly wait for Monday. -don antonio 
p.s. Ia vida del noche es mas picante... 
Looking for a unique gift for your valentine? Bring in your favorite pictures and 
we'll create a custom color calendar for your sweetie. Same day turn­around. Any twelve month combi­nation. 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center 
Hey -did you know ... 

We're open early, late, and week­ends for your convenience! 000 THE COPY SHOP 000 
LaFortune Student Center Phone 631-COPY 
Spoonball update: Now tied for Conference USA lead with UNC­Charlotte and Cincinnati. The Billikens battle the Bearcats on ESPN, Thursday at 7:00. 

Have you got Olympic fever yet? If you haven't, look at page 18. 
What's the deal with the weather on Sunday. Score one for El Nino! 
And now. it's time for a quote from those great British philsophers. the Spice Girls: So, tell me what you want, what you really, really want. I'll tell you what I want, what I really, really want. 
If only we were all so lucky to have a "secret" admirer in the Classifieds. 
TICKETS 
WANTED-ND vs MIAMI B-Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 
WANTED: 2 Allen Jackson tickets 247-0737 
PERSONAL 
Attention All Off-Campus Juniors and Seniors Attending JPW '98 You are invited to a luncheon at Alumni Senior Club on Saturday, February 21, 1998 from 12:30 to 2:00pm. Bring your parents and enjoy lunch with your friends! 
Pass counterteit $ = YOU break the law. Forge a check = YOU break the law. Use a fake drivers license =BAR breaks the law? Go Figure! 
wow, what a weekend! and this is only the beginning .... 
decisions, decisions ... wyatt, you are truely an oak 
i-' 1\Ssoc:. 
::J ':!·
sJNl/"'
-< 0"' 
NOTRE DAME 

Grief Workshop: Loss and Its Possibilities Working through the Pain 
LOCATION: ALUMNI OFFICE, BROWNSON HALL (Behind Main Building-Through Courtyard) DATES: FEBRUARY 10-ll, 1998 
* Tues., Febrnary 10: 6:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Telling Our Stories ** Wed, Febrnary 11: 6:00p.m.-9:00p.m. Going through the Maze 
THIS WORKSHOP WILL ADDRESS THE PARTICULAR CONCERNS OF THOSE SUFFERING THE LOSS OF A LOVED ONE AND THOSE WORKING THROUGH THE DIVORCE OF THEIR PARENTS. 
OJ e Over 75 accredited courses 
en 
e French Immersion Program e Fine Arts Program 
e Adv:mced Photography and Web Design Programs 
e Cultural Excursions 
For •ow informllh.on, caJ/ or write: 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs, Box S-2000 102 rue St. Dominique 75007 Paris, France 
Tel. (3311) 40 62 06 14 Fax (33/I) 40 62 07 17 New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414 
Web site-http://w"''"1up.fr ~ E-mail -Summer€1 aup.fr ..... 

Monday, February 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
Duke rebounds from loss by pounding Wolfpack 
bounced back strong from a loss to Temple last Tuesday that snapped its 10-game winning streak. 
Xavier {15-6, 7 -4) lost for the first time this season at Cincinnati Gardens, where it had won 16 in a row. The Musketeers have lost only two home games in the last two sea­sons. 
Clarke hit three 3-pointers as Massachusetts closed out the first half with a 14-3 run that pushed the lead to 18 points. Xavier never got closer than seven points the rest of the way. 
Gary Lumpkin scored 19 points for Xavier, which shot only 39 percent and finished with a season-low point total. 
There were five lead changes and four ties in the first nine minutes, before Massachusetts turned up the defensive pres­sure. Xavier hit four of its first five shots, then went 3-for-19 the rest of the half. 
Massachusetts came into the game with the nation's lOth­best field goal defense, holding opponents to 38.6 percent, and rattled the Atlantic 1 O's top­scoring offense {86.3 points per game) with its switching cover­ages. 
Ajmal Basit's putback and Clarke's basket following one of Massachusetts' six blocks put the Minutemen ahead 24-18, the biggest lead by either team to that point. 
Massachusetts was never in serious trouble after its 14-3 surge over the final 5:30, when the Musketeers failed to hit a field goal. After getting the bulk of their points inside to that point, the Minutemen hit four consecutive 3-pointers ­three by Clarke -and went into halftime ahead 43-25. 
By contrast, Xavier got rat­tled, forced shots and finished the half shooting 29 percent from the field. Xavier leads the Atlantic 10 in shooting at 49 percent. 
The lead reached 19 points before Xavier made a run with its press. Lumpkin made a pair of 3-pointers and a layup in a 13-4 spurt that cut the margin to 54-46 midway through the half. 
Torraye Braggs' two free throws made it 57-64 with 3:51 left, but Xavier had a turnover and missed a layup on consecu­tive possessions as its comeback came up short. 

Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. 

No. 1 Duke regained its edge three days after losing by 24 points to arch-rival North Carolina. getting a career-high 27 points from Roshown McLeod in a 65-49 victory over 
N.C. State on Sunday. 
At one point during the game 
McLeod scored 20 of Duke's 30 
points as the Blue Devils {21-2, 
10-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) 
kept pace with soon-to-be No. 1 
North Carolina in the ACC regu­
lar-season title chase. 
The No. 2 Tar Heels defeated 
Georgia Tech 107-100 in double 
overtime earlier in the day and 
will likely be the nation's new 
No. 1 team Monday. 
McLeod's previous high was 
25 points against Florida State 
Jan. 10 as Duke beat the 
Wolfpack {12-10, 3-8) for the 
sixth time in the last seven 
meetings in Reynolds Coliseum. 
McLeod sank 7 of 12 shots in 
the opening half as Duke 
grabbed a nine-point halftime 
lead. The senior then started 
the second period by scoring on 
a pair of layups, two free 
throws. a follow shot and one in 
the lane for 10 points during a 
14-5 run as Duke opened a 45­
27 lead with 13:37 left. 
His 3-pointer two minutes 
later gave Duke a 20-point lead 
andcontrol of the game a month 
after the Wolfpack had played 
the Blue Devils tough in 
Durham. 
Trajan Langdon added 17 
points for Duke, while C.C. 
I Iarrison led the Wolfpack with 
18. 
After a close opening 8 1/2 
minutes. Duke went on a 16-3 
run as McLeod scored 10 of his 
14 first-half points. 
The depleted Wolfpack went without starting point guard Justin Gainey, who is nursing a son~ lower back. Freshman Archie Miller started in place of Gainey, but he, Ishua Benjamin and Tim Wells were a combined 0-for-12 shooting in the opening 20 minutes as N.C. State shot 
29.6 percent and fell behind 31­22 at the break. 
N.C. State also lost starter Kenny Inge with 9:31 left after he fouled out. 
Miller had made at least three 3-pointers in each of his last five games, but was shut off from outside as the Wolfpack's main ballhander. 
No. 5 North Carolina 107, Georgia Tech 100 
Poised to surge to the top of the newest college basketball poll, second-ranked North Carolina survived a scare on Sunday, needing two overtimes and a career-high 42 points from Shammond Williams to down Georgia Tech 107-100. 
"Williams was absolutely sen­sational," Tech coach Bobby Cremins said. "I thought we played as well as we could defensively, trying to take away the lobs, the sensational dunks, but the one thing we couldn't take away was Williams' 3­pointer." 
Williams, who made 8 of his 11 3-pointers, took control in the second overtime with 12 points, including a pair of long­range shots. 
"I feel confident in my shot," Williams said. "Sometimes I get the opportunity to take more shots than at other times. I feel that if I'm given the opportunity to score, I'm capable." 
The Tar Heels extended their winning streak to seven and are expected to be ranked No. 1 in the newest poll after knocking off No. 1 Duke 97-73 on Thursday night. 
The Tar Heels, {24-1, 10-1 Atlantic Coast Conference) had led most of the game until Tech {14-9, 3-7) rallied from a 7­point deficit in the final 1:21 of regulation when Michael Maddox forced overtime with a extend its home winning streak 3-pointer from the left wing to 58 games. with 15.9 seconds to play. Missouri, which had beaten 

Maddox, who had a career-Kansas 74-73 in Columbia Jan. high 32 points, narrowly missed 19, lost for the 20th straight giving Tech the upset at the end time on the road. The Tigers of the first overtime when his were the last team to win at tip-in came just after the horn Kansas. sounded, sending the game to The win by the Jayhawks {26­the second extra period dead-3, 10-1 Big 12) a celebration of locked at 90. 100 years of basketball during 
"We were lucky to escape that which about 200 former players first overtime," Carolina coach and coaches during the game. Bill Guthridge said. "Makhtar But Missouri {13-10, 5-5) was Ndiaye gave our team a real not bothered and fought back good pep talk going into the from large deficits throughout second overtime. I think we the game. played a lot better and were Missouri was within 66-63 really into it." with 3:49 to play on a 3-pointer 
Matt Harpring, who added 30 by John Woods, who led the for the Jackets, gave Tech its Tigers with 18 points. last lead on a layup that made it But C. B. McGrath found 95-94 with 3:05 to play. LaFrentz inside for an easy 
Williams then connected on a shot, and then stole the 3-pointer, Antawn Jamison, -inbounds pass. Pierce scored 
who scored 31, followed with a free throw and Williams came back with another 3-pointer for a 101-95 with 1:11 remaining. 
It was the 40th victory in the last 42 games for the Tar Heels, who had buried the Yellow Jackets 96-75 in the first meet­ing this season. 
Harpring became only the sixth player to top 2,000 in career points, with his 30 giving him 2,021. Harpring also had 16 rebounds and Maddox had 12. 
Vince Carter added 19 for the Carolina, 13 of those in the first half, and Ed Cota had 13 assists. 
Freshman Dion Glover added 21 points for the Jackets. 
"If we can take the No. 1 team in the nation to the ropes, it shows how good we can be," Glover said. 
No. 3 Kansas 80, Missouri 70 
Paul Pierce scored 29 points and Raef LaFrentz had 22 as third-ranked Kansas turned back Missouri 80-70 Sunday to 
HOLY CROSS ASSOCIATES 
Information Meetings: Monday & Tuesday, February 9 & 10 4:30 pm or 6:00 pm 
at the Center for Social Concerns 
... ... ... ... 

PO Box 668, Notre Dame IN 46556 Phone: 631-5521 FAX: 631-6813 E-mail: ND.HCASSOC.1@ND.EDU 

AmeriCorps Education Award scholarships available for Domestic Participants See us on the Web-http://www.nd.edu:80/-hcassoc/ 
and Kansas led 70-63 with 3:21 to play .. Kelly Thames had 17 points for the Tigers. 
LaFrentz had 10 rebounds to go with his 22 points, but missed his first six field goal attempts of the second half before he scored with 4:48 to play. 
LaFrentz had missed the first game in Columbia with a bro­ken finger on his right hand. This time, Missouri was playing without a key player -Albert White, who had 23 points in the first meeting, sat out after rein­juring his ankle Wednesday against Nebraska. 
Kansas led 41-26 at the half and 45-26 after getting the first two baskets of the second half. But Missouri went on a 15-2 run to get within 4 7-42 on a 3­pointer by Brian Grawer with 
15:19 to play. 
The Jayhawks led 64-54 but the Tigers were back to within 64-58 with about 5:20 to play on baskets by Jeff Hafer and Monte Hardge. 
It was 66-60 with 4:32 to play after two free throws by Grawer. 
No. 23 UMass 73, No. 21 Xavier 62 

Charlton Clarke scored 18 points and led a late first-half surge as No. 23 Massachusetts built an 18-point lead and held on for a 73-62 victory Sunday over 21st-ranked Xavier. 
Massachusetts (17-6, 9-1 Atlantic 10) improved to 5-0 in road conference games and 
Monday, February 9, 1998 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS 
-~ -~ ~--~
--~-~-~~ 
• NFL 
., l I. ., "1'­
Draft leaves many questions 
Sat., Feb. 14

EFFECTIVE 
A.uocia1~d Pr~ss left my number and he called long meetings with the Colts 
9 a.m.-4 p.m.

me back that same night. this weekend and Indianapolis "We talked on the phone did not schedule meetings with
INDIANAPOLIS Bus. Adm. Bldg.
Peyton Manning says he every week throughout the sea­the other two players expected CHRISTIAN doesn't care if Hyan Leaf goes son. We know each other pretty to be in the top four -Heisman MBA wing;rm. 162 No. 1 in the NFL draft. well. ... The more we got to Trophy winner Charles Ditto for Leaf. know each other, we realized Woodson, a cornerback, and 
LEADERSHIP 
There's just no rivalry we have a lot of things in com­Florida State defensive lineman between the two quarterbacks mon." Andre Wadsworth. ... in today's marketplace who should go 1-2 on April 18. Both should be heading to the "I feel I've been under the 
microscope at Tennessee ... I
In fad, they've become good bank with big checks after they A seminar for men and women who want 
buddies-just like John Elway, sign their first NFL contracts. In realize the NFL, it's going to 
to make a difference. No matter what your po­
Brett Favre, Dan Marino and a league starving for new quar­another level," Manning said. many of the other top NFL terback talent, scouts rate both "I'm as prepared as possible. r sition, Christianity can make you more effec­know there's adjustment to do
quarterbacks in one of sports' far above any of the other NFL tive in providing leadership that matters. 
morn exclusive cliques. hopefuls at the combine. on the lield. as well as off the 
"People may try to create "lie's a great guy, down to field." that, but that's not the case," earth. Usually when we get Both brought impressive sta­Register at MBA office, room 276 COBA. Manning said. ''I've gotten to together, we don't talk about tistics to the combine. Manning, $25 ($35 at door), STUDENTS: $5.00. (Includes lunch). 
know Hyan ... there is no ques­football that much," Leaf said. the runner-up to Woodson for 
Or call Prof. Jack Ruhe, 284-4510 (w), 259-5986 (h). 
the Heisman and the winner of and a good person as well." and things going on with our nearly every other major award 
"It's great because we know girlfriends." for an offensive player, threw that it doesn't matter who is Observers say Manning (6-for 11,201 yards and 89 touch-first or second," he said. "His foot-5, 230 pounds) may be ' downs during a 45-game career dream was to play professional more ready for the NFL than with the Volunteers. Leaf tion he is really a good player "We talk about our families, 
Announcing The 3rd Annual 
football, and so is mine. I think Leaf (6-6, 250 pounds) because passed for 3,968 yards and 34 a lot of' that now gets distorted, of greater experience. Manning, touchdowns as a junior last 
Keough Sumn1er Internships
with the money issue. We're the son of former NFL quarter­year. not competing with each other back Archie Manning, played "The media has given Peyton 
In 

his senior year at Tennessee a public image. I haven't gotten
until we have to play each 
other." while Leaf left Washington one of those yet," Leaf said. The two have been talking State after leading the Huskies However, the Colts and other 
3Jl\QE~:s.flm 
regularly for months. to the Hose Bowl as a junior. teams will have to wait until "The media was starting to The Indianapolis Colts have next month to look them over. 
STUDY JRJSH POLfl'lCS,LlTERA.TURE, AJ.m· CULTURE 
make Hyan vs. Peyton deals and the top pick in the draft and it Manning, who was hospitalized I didn't want it to get put on a appeared evident at the com­before the Orange Bowl with a 
hostile level," Leaf said. "I bine they are going for a quar­ruptured sac in his right knee, said he wanted to more time to
called the University of terback. Tennessee football office and Manning and Leaf both had heal. 
Cowboys searching for new coach 
Associal<d Press was the Dallas Cowboys, that's second-and-2 play from the just one of the fortunate situa­Broncos' 35 on a drive that put PITTSBURGH tions that happened at this Pittsburgh in position to take a 
In his search to replace Barry point in time." 21-10 lead. Switzer as head coach of the Switzer resigned Jan. 9 at the Rather than give the ball to Dallas Cowboys, owner Jerry end of a 6-10 season. 
Jerome Bettis, who was on a 100-yard pace, Stewart threwJones is talking to Pittsburgh Jones already has had a total of seven interviews with three into double coverage in the end 
Steelers offensive coordinator Chan Gailey. candidates, including former zone. "There's some things we did
The Steelers gave Jones per­UCLA coach Terry Donahue, The applications are due hy Monday, Man~h 2, 1998.

well and some things we didn't,
mission to talk to Gailey in former San Francisco coach Indianapolis, where the NFL George Seifert and Gr.een Bay and I'd rather leave it at winds up its annual combine offensive coordinator Sherman that,"Gailey said at the time. 
The lntenuhips will include: 
Eight to ten weeks, internsnip Round trip airfare Room.and Board 
in these 


workouts Monday. If he is cho­sen, he would become the fourth head coach in the Cowboys' history. 
Gailey had a two-hour meet­ing with Jones on Sunday, which he described as a "get­ting-to-know-you session." 
"It was a very informal talk and it was a great opportunity for me to get to know Jerry,"Gailey said. ''I've had a long interest in becoming a head coach. Whether or not it Lewis. Gailey is the fourth "mystery"candidate Jones has been talking about for weeks. 
Gailey has been the Steelers' offensive coordinator for the last two seasons. 
He drew criticism in Pittsburgh for his play-calling in the AFC championship game, which the Steelers lost 24-21 to Denver. First-year starting quarterback Kordell Stewart had a fumble and three inter­ceptions -one of them on a 


., 
[HEERLERD ING 
Attn: Men 
Come check out the exciting sport of cheerleading, Notre Dame's only COED varsity team. The program is in need of athletic and outgoing men. No previous stunting or gymnastic background required. 
BE A PART OF NOTRE DAME TRADITION The cheer program needs talented women too. Please join us at the: 
Information Meeting 
Thurs., Feb. 26 -6:30 p.m. Gym I, Joyce Center 

MR. STANFORD 1998. 
SWEET. 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13. STEPAN CENTER, 8:00P.M. 
$3.00 DONATION TO BENEFIT THE LOGAN CENTER 

~-~----.------~--------------------~~----­
\ londay, February 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 


Meyo 
continued from page 20 
in the season because the Eastern schools do a lot of rac­ing early, but we seem to always catch up about now. They've done a lot of racing, but we're still going to be fresh for the Big East meet." 
Senior captain and all­American Jason Rexing met provisional qualifying NCAA standards in the mile, with a sixth-place time of 4:04.22 in the Meyo Mile, the highlight event of the invitational. That time, a personal record by sev­eral seconds, ranks as the fourth-best indoor time ever by a Notre Dame runner. 
Tomorrow, Tuesday, February 10, 1998 For time and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C 
Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are private and confidential. 

The Notre Dame African Students' Association And the Gender Studies Program 
Proudly Present: 
SKIRT POWER 
1997 -95 min. 
A feature film by Adama Drabo (MALI} 

"A REMARKABLE ACHIEVEMENT..•DRABO EMPLOYS REVERSAL TO REVEAL AND PROVOKE RETHINKING OF ESTABLISHED NOTIONS OF TRADITION AND GENDER, AT THE SAME TIME HE SUGGESTS ALTERNATIVES."-MBYE CHAM, HOWARD UNIVERSITY 
Followed By a Panel Discussion on: "Role of Men and Women in Society" 
Featuring 

1. 
Prof. Patricia Davis, Government Dept, Moderator; 

2. 
Prof. James Bellis, Anthropology Department, Moderator; 

3. 
Prof. Dominic Thomas, Romance Languages Dept., IUSB 

4. 
Djo Mwamba, Assistant Vice President, Keybank, Inc. 

5. 
Joseph Karanja, Ph.D. Canidate, Andrews University; 

6. 
Prof. Carolyn Nordstrom, Anthropology Dept. & Peace Studies; 

7. 
Rodney Cohen, Director, Urban Plunge & Outreach Dept, CSC. 


TAAFE FANGA, i.e. "SKIRT POWER". Is structured around the core belief that cosmogeny, myth, history, and the pre­
sent interpenetrate or repeat themselves continually to bring primal forces back into proper balance. A griot in pre­
sent day Mali tells a story about women in an 18th Century Dogon Village. Fed up with male arrogance they capture 
the powerful Albarga mask and terrorize the men into assuming traditional women's roles, "the triumph of the skirts 
over the shorts." The humorous results convince everyone that women's roles should be respected as complementary, 
yet, equal, to those of men if society as a whole is to advance. 
• Wednesday, February 11 • 7:00pm • 141 DeBartolo • Admission Free • 
http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 

"As far as my own race, I was fairly pleased," said Rexing. "I was just happy to be in such a fast race. That's the way you improve-by running against guys who are faster than you and taking your licks." 
The Meyo Mile featured two former Olympians, Michigan flmner Kevin Sullivan and Paul McMullen, who was running unattached. Sullivan and McMullen, close competitors over the years, ran nearly neck­and-neck the whole way. Sullivan ended up with the vic­tory in an official time of 3:56.08, just off his own meet record and ranking as the fastest indoor mile in the U.S. this year. McMullen, in his first time competing in the mile since losing two toes in a lawn­mower accident last summer, finished in 3:56.63. 
Sophomore JoAnna Deeter again met provisional standards in the 3,000-meter run, with a time of 9:46.92. Running far in front of the rest of the pack, her closest competition was more than 30 seconds behind. 
''I'm disappointed because I wanted to qualify myself auto­matically (for nationals) and run about 9:35," said Deeter. "But I'm excited for the next race at the Big East." 
Danny Payton, a senior all­American, opened up a gap between him and the rest of the competition about halfway through the 500-meter dash to set a meet record of 1:02.79. This was a personal record for Payton by over a second 
"I still think I can take some time off for the Big East. I'm hoping I can," said Payton. "I just want to do whatever I can to help the team out to win the Big East championships. We want to win that." 
Nadia Schmiedt ran to first place in the 500-meter dash in 1:12.68, an adidas/Meyo Invitational record and break­ing her best time by .64 sec­onds. 
Sophomore Marshaun West out-leaned Brad Fields, an unattached runner, to win the 200-meter dash by one-hun­dredth of a second in 21.60. 
"Every week, I'm trying to get my times down so I can score in the Big East and get a Big East championship," said West. "That's all I want." 
Captain Errol Williams, ranked first in the Big East in the hurdles, won the 60-meter hurdles in a time of 7.92. Junior Bobby Brown ran 47.89 en route to a victory in the 400­meter dash in just his second meet of the year. That time is only .16 off the school record set last year by Payton. .. 
Antonio Arce used a big kick in the men's mile to win. Phil Mishka ran 2:27.4 in the 1,000­meter run for first place. Tony Driver just missed the victory in the 60-meter dash, being edged out 6.92 to 6.94 by Michigan State's Octavius Long in a photo finish. In the 5,000-meter run, junior Ryan Maxwell and fresh­man Ryan Shay (running unat­tached although a Notre Dame student) finished second and third, respectively, to unat­taciled runner Tom Snyder. 
On the women's side, Erin 
Luby took first in the 1,000­
meter run in 3:01.07, Berit 
Junker ran a strong time of 
2:12.08 in the 800-meter run to place second, Kelle Saxen high jumped 5'8" for second place, and Angela Patrizio also had a second-place finish with a triple jump of 36'4". 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Notre Dame led the pack in several events this weekend at the Meyo Invitational. 


-----~r-~--------~----~----------------------------~~--------------------------~-----~ 
pagel6~----------------------------------------T~h~e~O~bs=e~~~e~r_·~S~P~()~R~T~S~____________________________M__o_nd_a~y_,F_e_b_ru_a~ry~9_,_1_9_9_8 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

The Observer/John Dally Even point guard Martin lngelsby was unable to help Notre Dame's dissapointing offensive performance Notre Dame guard Antoni Wyche, shown here snatching a ball in front against Georgetown this weekend. of Georgetown's Joseph Toumou, scored 10 points in a losing effort. 
The Observer/John Daily 
Thompson still surprises players, fans 
Fans and critics also misun­derstand Thompson who has been accused of being a racist because he does not recruit white athletes. But what Thompson has done still dazzles those fans and critics. 
Everyone knows about the tradition of Georgetown basket­ball: the 23 consecutive post­season appearances, the 1984 national championship. the three Final Four appearances, and sending 25 players into the NBA draft. But Thompson's greatest accomplishment cannot be seen on the basketball court. 
At one of the finest Catholic universities in the United States, Thompson has graduated 75 of 77 student-athletes who have stayed four years. Georgetown's squad currently has three ath­letes from Africa on on the ros­ter. These three kids are earn­ing their college degrees at Georgetown, and that is due to Thompson. 
One will not find Georgetown in the Final Four this March as the past few years have not been typical Georgetown bas­ketball. Last year the Iloyas lost in the first round of the Big Dance and the squad is current­ly 12-9 overall and 5-8 in the Big East. 
Freshman point guard Kenny Brunner has left campus, and Thompson said that he did not know where the California native was but assumed that he was headed home. 
The state of Georgetown bas­ketball is certainly not at its peak, but Thompson still expressed pride in his players. 
Saturday, Thompson's squad broke a three-game losing streak, and he discussed the win after the game and how sometimes winning is not every­thing. 
"We'll take a win any way we can," Thompson explained. "But, this is a darn decent group of kids, and they have worked hard in every game this year." 
Love him or hate him,· one must respect him. 
B-ball 
continued from page 20 

Irish lwad coach John MacLeod. "You have to give them credit. It seemed like everything we tried they had an answer fi1r." 
Notre Dame's inability to pro­tect the ball (20 turnovers com­pared to just 11 for Georgetown) and combined with a mediocre shooting effort (21-for-47 from the field, 12-f'or-20 at the line) spellnd doom for the Irish. 
"They did a great job of changing defenses,'' said MacLeod. "We turned it over. and they got lay-ups. Against other teams, we're abln to get back and recover. But they were so quick to the other end that they had the ball on the rim before we could recover." 
With Friel sidelined for the second straight game with a thigh contusion, the Irish were in desperate need for some offensive punch. However, as Saturday proved, Notre Dame has virtually no offensive attack if Garrity is not on his game. 
"We've got to give him some help," said forward Derek Manner. "It's not fair to expect him to do it all by himsnlf." 
With just five games remain­ing on the schedule, the team's success seems to hinge on two key factors. First, Garrity must regain the form that has earned him the recognition as the league's best player. 
Since that is certainly likely, the second factor may be even more important. Friel, the team's only other offensive threat, must return to action and emerge as a legitimate complement to Garrity. That will take some of the pressure off Garrity. and at the same time, give the Irish another option if Garrity suffers through an off night. 
"I fenl I can be a guy who ean help piek up the slack when Pat's having an off night." said Friel. "The bottom line is that somebody has to step up and come through if Pat happens to be struggling." 
Otherwis1~. it will just be that same old story. 

WASIIINGTON 
T
he most dominating and imposing figure on the floor of the MCI Center on Saturday was not wearing a uniform.';""""'=====~ And in a 20­p o i n t blowout, he proved to be the most entertaining. That fig­ure is none other than 
Joe Cavato I e g en d a r Y Assistant Sports Editor Georgetown head coach John Thompson, who is perhaps as misunderstood as he is suc­cessful. Only a handful of col­lege coaches make as much noise on and off the court as Thompson. Few coaches find themselves surrounded in as much controversy and criticism as the 6-foot-6 character that roams Georgetown's sidelines and never fears to express his emotions. · 
Thompson's frame casts shad­ows over most of his players. His character and coaching style can also make his players feel small and insignificant. 
The most entertaining event Saturday did not occur on the basketball court. That moment occurred at Thompson's post­game press conference. 
When asked about the play of his senior captain Boubacar Aw, who lit up the Irish for 17 points and held Pat Garrity to 5-for-15 shooting, Thompson responded by shaking his head and explaining that, "Boubacar's a !'***king head case." 
Thompson did not mean to insult his forward from Senegal. He further explained that "lie (Boubacar) was damn near in shock when I told him he was going to be captain. 
"Sometimes players think I'm a SOB," Thompson continued. "But, Boubacar is finally getting used to me and is able to laugh and shrug it off when I call him a dirty name." 
Monday, February 9, 1998 
The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
The Irish were able to put the practice." 

controversial goal behind them What pleased Poulin most
Hockey 
and whip Ferris State was the balance of the Irish continued from page 20 University (with whom they attack. Seven different playersentered the weekend tied for recorded points, with goaltender Matt Eisler. seventh place) 7-1. Andrusiak and Dhadphale both 
"Eisler did a really good job "We played a smart game," registering career-best four­for us," said Poulin. "This was said Andrusiak. "We didn't 
point games. 
a very difficult game to play. make too many mental errors The Irish jumped out to a 7-0 There is a lot to think about in this game, and that's some­cushion early in the final period 
down there in the net." 
thing that we've worked on in and held on to post their first 
American Cancer Society 404 S. Columbia, Suite 250 South Bend, IN 4660 1 Phone: 234-4097 DAFFODiL Fax: 234-4515 D·A·Y·S Dear Friend: The winter chill may still be in the air, but it's not too soon to be thinking ofspring flowers and (of course) Daffodil Days! That's right, it's time once again for the American Cancer Society to begin selling bunches ofdaffodils. For five dollars you can purchase a bunch of ten daffodils. For an additional $3 you can also buy a slender glass vase that is just perfect for your bouquet. The proceeds from our Annual Daffodil Da_ys will go to the American Cancer Society for use in cancer research, educa­tion, programs, and patient services here in St. Joseph County. Bring the sign of Spring and the flower of hope into your business or home. You can mail or fax your order. Please note payment options below. Please call our office at 234-4097 with any questions. THANK YOU FOR YOUR CON11NUED SUPPORT. Sincerely, Mary Huszar, Daffodil Day Volunteer Chair  
I want to order____bunches of daffodils to be: _____.delivered to the address below _____picked up by me at the American Cancer Society office. _____my contribution of$ to fight cancer is enclosed Name Company_____________ Address________ City_____Zip·_______ Phone# Delivery Instructions  
Payment Method: Card#,____________ In advance Check__MasterCard__ Visa_ Expires;___________ Day of delivery Check__Cash__ Phone#·___________ MasterCard__Visa__ Signature  


By SHANNON RYAN 
Sports Writer 
When Coach David Roeder 
slung his tie carelessly across 
the back of a sideline seat, his 
team knew he was worried. 
The Belles then took careful 
measures to reassure him there 
was no need for panic, taking 
care of Franklin College in a 
down-to-the-wire 75-72 victory. 
"I think he was starting to 
worry a little," senior guard 
Darcy Nikes said of her anxious 
coach. "I felt confident and told 
him I knew we'd win." 
Whether it was ESP or high 
self-esteem, Saint Mary's bas­
ketball team (7-13) has turned 
around a nine-game losing 
streak, winning its second 
game of the week. 
Much of the recent success 
can be attributed to the captain 
trio of Julie McGill, Brenda 
Hoban, and Nikes who share a 
better connection than AT&T. 
Feeding each other off fast 
breaks, no-look passes and 
long-court allyoops have 
become routine for the seniors. 
"I feel really comfortable get­
ting them the ball," Nikes said 
after chipping in with 11 points 
and five assists. "When we get 
the break going we run the 
floor well, and it's almost a def­
inite conversion." 
McGill agreed, "I think Brenda, Darcy and I are really coming together. I feel I just know where they are on the court." 
The Belles may have relied on gut-feeling, but they could not have known how intense and close the game would run. Despite defeating Franklin last year by more than 20 points and with the suspension of five Grizzlies, the Belles still expect­ed an intense matchup. 
''I'm excited we came through," Roeder said. "We knew it would be a tough game." 
The lead switched constantly in the first half. The Grizzlies opened the game with a three­pointer but were quickly answered as the Belles went on a 6-0 run. Franklin, led by 6­foot-1 center Anne Heile with 18 points in the game, came home win since Dec. 6. During that stretch they were a mea­ger 0-3-2 at home. 
"It was good to see offense tonight," said Poulin. "A lot of people chipped in tonight." 
"It was  fun to finally blow  
someone  out,"  Dhadphale  
added.  

The Irish have their attention focused on the future . 
"Getting into the playoffs on a roll is important," said Poulin. "Whether we get home ice or not, it is important to have momentum going heading into the post-season." 
"If we can get build on these wins and establish consisten­cy," added Dhadphale, "then that will lead us through the last seven games." 
• SAINT Mtuw's BASKETBALL 

back with their own 7-0 shoot­
ing spree. The half appropriate­
ly ended in a 31-31 tie. 
Saint Mary's came out of the 
locker room strong, going on a 
9-0 run to lead 39-33. The pack 
was led by McGill who racked 
up an astonishing 32 points, 10 
rebounds, and 8 steals. The 5­
foot-1 0 forward poured it on at 
the line, in the paint and under 
the hoop. Hoban also took it a 
notch higher, playing an 
aggressive game with 17 points 
and 12 rebounds and drawing 
jeers from the opposing crowd. 
But not even Franklin fans 
with homemade noise-makers 
of empty pop bottles containing 
pebbles could silence the 
Belles. Saint Mary's took full 
advantage of the Grizzlies' 23 
turnovers and drove it down 
the court and Franklin's throat. 
Despite an all-court effort by 
both teams, the victory pended 
on performance at the free­
throw line. 
After two Nikes free throws 
with less than two minutes 
remaining, Saint Mary's came 
back from a five-point deficit to 
trail by only one. Less than a 
minute later, it was McGill at 
the line who inched the Belles 
to a one-point lead. 
But after Franklin missed three attempts at the line, everything depended on Charlotte Albrecht to pull the game to a Franklin three-point must. With 11 seconds remain­ing, Albrecht sunk both shots with ease giving Saint Mary's the 75-72 edge. The Grizzlies faltered in the final seconds as Amy Johnson airballed her three-point attempt. 
"1 was pretty nervous," said Albrecht, who finished with 10 points and 10 rebounds. "I thought, 'I do this everyday at practice.'" 
With the momentum of their recent success, Albrecht and company are out to prove prac­tice does make perfect. Or at least close to it as they try to improve their lackluster record while keeping their coach on edge. 
"I don't think he planned for it to go down to the wire," McGill said of Roeder. "We like to keep him on his toes." 
.----------------------------------­
-



• OLYMPIC UPDATES Speedskating records fall in first day of competition Associar~d Press NAGANO, Japan Bart Vnldkamp streaked across the lin­ish line, thrusting his arms through the frigid air to salute the singing, swaying crowd. lie had just skatml the best race of his life. a world record by more than two seconds. yet he knew it wasn't good enough. "I thought Gianni Hommr. would go faster." VPidkamp said. Actually, it was another Dutch skater. Hintje Hfl<;ma, who edipsed Veldkamp's world n~eonl in thn rmm's 5,000-mctnr rac1~ br.f'on~ Homme ever stepped on the ice Sunday. By the time Homme crouched into his starting position, ready to cap off a rr.markablP lirst day of' Olympic speed­skating at M-Wave, everyone prepared for him to rPdairn the world record that was his at the beginning of thn day. "AftPr watching Gianni J(Jr two or three laps. I krww I was second," Hitsma said. "So it was easy to watch." M-Wave. its. massive roof towering 141 fed abow tlw ice, doesn't provide the inti­macy of l.illelwmnwr's Viking Ship, where .Johann Olav Koss edipsml the 10,000 rncord by nearly 13 seconds four years ago. Snowstorm postpones downhill events Associared Press IIABUKA, Japan In .Japan. good winter weather doesn't last long. First fog, then a snowstorm forced the men's downhill -the premier event of the Winter Olympics -to be postponed from Sunday until Wednesday. More than a foot of new snow overnight on the llappo 'one course forced a 1 hour, 45-minute delay in the start of the men's combined slalom. Heavy snow at the snowboarding venue on Mount Yakebitai forced postponement of tlw women's giant slalom until Tuesday (Monday night EST). The International Olympic Committee can only hop1~ that Japan's history of bad weather for world-elass skiing doesn't repeat itself. In 1993, training went oil' without a hitch at Morioka in northern .Japan. but the schedulfld start of the World Championship brought some of tlw worst weather in the history of ski­ing. Day aftPr day, the men's and women's speed 1wents. the downhill and super-G. were set back by a combination of snow, wind and rain. Slaloms and giant slaloms were moved up as oflidals waited for a day. any day, with acceptable weather. When they got it, they ran both downhills the same day.  
MEDAL_S TABLE 1998 Nagano Winter Olympics Through Sunday, Feb. 8 Through Three Medals Country G s 8 Total Netherlands 1 1 0 '2 Russia 1 1 0 2 Canada 1 0 0 1 Italy 0 1 0 1 Belgium 0 0 1 1 Norway 0 0 1 1 Switzerland 0 0 1 1 G-Gold, S-Silver, 8-Bronze  

AP 

• WOMEN's HOCKEY 
Granato makes Olympic history 
Associated Press 

NAGANO, Japan 
It was the goal she'd been waiting for and, once the day arrived, Cammi Granato didn't have to wait long. 
The last obstacle between her and the Olympic record books -Chinese goalie Guo Hong-had fallen and the goal mouth yawned wide. 
Less than eight minutes into Sunday's game, Granato became the first membflr of the U.S. women's ice hockey team to score a goal in the Olympics. She a!Mt•d the game's final goal. too, as the United States defeat­ed China 5-0. 
Both scores -the first on a power play -came as Granato pounced on rebounds fluttering just outside Guo's reach. 
"I just saw a loose puck," she said. "I had room to jump on it and I banged it homfl. It was a really nice feeling." 
Top-ranked Canada defeated Japan 13-0 and Finland beat Sweden 6-0 in the other games Sunday. 
In just one game, Granato has already scored more Olympic goals than her brother, the San Jose Sharks' Tony Granato. He had one goal and seven assists in six games at the 1988 Olympics. 
"That's a good thing to remember," she said with a laugh. "Maybe we'll get a little competition going." 
Granato is captain of the U.S. team and is one of only three members who have been with the squad since it was formed for the 1990 Women's World Championship. 
She grew up in Downers Grove, Ill., playing basement shinny with four brothers and her sister and rebuffing her mother's attempts to guide her toward figure skating. 
She replayed the memories on Sunday, reading a poem her brother Robby had written to remind her of the trip from those childhood games to these Winter Garnes. 
It "sort of sums up everything I've gone through early on and where I'm at right now," she said. "I kept read-ing that over and over while I listened to my music and visualized positive things. 

"That's really when you feel it. This was something we've worked for so long, it's not the time to mess up. It's time to go all the way." 
Two of the team's other goals were scored by a pair of its rising stars, 
defenseman Tara  Mounsey  and  for­ 
ward  Jennifer  Schmidgall,  both  19  
years old.  

Mounsey set up Karyn Bye's power play goal near the end of the first and fired home a slap shot in the second pedod. Schmidgall grabbed another rebound to put the United States ahead 4-0 in the middle of the third. The powerful Mounsey, captain of 
the boys' team at her high school in Concord. N.II .. forced the puck deep into the Chinese zone twice before finally scoring from ncar the blue line. 
"I just one timed it hoping to get it on net or keep it in the zone. I didn't care if it went in," she said. 
The ebullient Schmidgall. in her first year with the team, waved to her parents in the stands after scoring. 
"I was so excited," she said. "I just came around the net and all of a sud­den the rebound came out and I was in the right spot. I took it and waited for the goalie to fall down and I just put it in." 
Guo stopped 26 of the 31 shots she faced. China managed only I 0 shots on U.S. goalie Sarah Tueting. 
• fiGURE SKATING 
Low scores mar 'best ever' performance 
Associated Press 

NAGANO, Japan 
The crowd didn't like the marks, booing as they flashed across the scoreboard, and the coach wasn't any happier. 
But if it's a judging controversy you want, you're not going to getit from 
U.S. pairs skaters Kyoko Iria and Jason Dungjen. 
"You can't control the judges; you can only control what you do," Dungjen said. "We're happy with where we are." 
That's in fourth place, despite a clean short program Sunday that coach Peter Burrows called their best ever. Not as pleasing to him were their marks, ranging from 5.4 to 5.7 for technical merit and 5.3 to 5.7 for artistry. 
"They must be watching a different 
ballgame,"  Burrows  said  of  the  
judges on the low end.  
Oksana  Kazakova  and  Artur  

Dmitriev, who won gold in 1992 and silver in 1994 with a different part· ner, were in first place after Sunday's short program, worth one-third of the final score. 
World champions Mandy Woetzel and fngo Steuer were second, even though Steuer has a bum shoulder 
,=;tt~J~~~1~~~r 
that hurt so badly he needed three injections of anti-inflammatory vita~ mins before he skated. 
Just ahead of Dungjen and Ina in third were pre·Olympic favorites 
Yelena  Berezhnaya  and  Anton  
Sikharulidze,  who  crashed  on  the  
require1J jump.  

Jen.hi Meno and Todd Sand, the other U.S. pair, were sixth. 
Dungjen and the Japanese-born Ina have been knocked in the past for being colorless. But this time, they had a bond with theWhite Ring audi­ence from the start. 
Ina's expressive eyes drew the crowd in, and when Dungjen tossed her Wgh on a split double twist just seconds into the program, the fans roared. They were even louder when Dungjen flipped Ina around on their combination lift, twirling her high above his head as if she were a baton. 
As the final beat of their Japanese drum music trailed off, Dungjen pumped his fist and then clasped his hands together. Ina hugged him, and they wore huge grins as they waved to the crowd that was showering them with flowers. 
"It's probably one of the best feel­ings I've ever had," Dungjen said. "We're .so happy, because we went out and did what we wanted to do, 
and that was skate clean." .... 
Still, something was missing. The 

two-time U.S. champions, usually so 
powerful and quick, were slower 
than they've been in the past. 
They looked almost cautious at 
times, and no wonder: Of the 20 cou­
ples, only five landed side-by-side 
triple jumps. Others botched their 
spins and death spirals. 
But Dungen and Ina hit their triple 

jumps, as did Dmitriev and 
Kazakova. In his third Olympics, 
Dmitriev is so strong and powerful he 
makes even the most difficult of 
moves look easy. When he sent 
Kazakova soaring high on their split 
• double twist, it was as if he were just tossing a ball. 
Their side-by-side spins were in 

perfect unison, and they landed th(~ir 
triple toes as if connoeted by a tether. 
And on their backward death spi­

ral, only someone as good as 
Dmitriev could save what could have 
been a disastrous mistake. Kazakova 
isn't comfortable with the move, and 
she came close to slipping ofT her 
edge, which would have sent her fly­
ing across the ice. 
But Dmitriev hung on and steadied her. As they finished, Kazakova apol­ogized to him. 
-~------­
Monday, February 9, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
-

DILBERT 
I 5UGGE5T THAT 
TI-\ANK5 FOR RULING

YOU DEAL WITH e 
0 
OUT Tit"\E TRAVEL.

THE ISSUE ON A. ~ GOING FORWARD 'g "YOU'RE USUALL"Y NOT THAT I-\£.LPFU L. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 34lmus's medium 60 Quaint dance 37 Goods &3 "--the Mood
1 Meal at boot 38 "Blue" bird for Love" camp 39 Abba of Israel 64 Actress5 Sell tickets Samantha40 Operaillegally 65 Microwave,
headliners

10 Sam the--of slangily41 Stupor60's pop 66 Grandmother,
42 --'easter

14 "Beetle Bailey" affectionately43 Sheets,dog 67 Immunizations
pillowcases,

15 It's a no-no 68 -off (plenty 16 Car with a meter etc. mad)
44 Put on the 17 Lose one's payroll nerve 

45 Old instrument 
DOWN

19 Israeli guns 
of punishment 20 Tennis great 48"Who-­1 Treats cynically 
Rosewall 
you?" 2 Lucy's best 21 Bohemian 49 Sounded, as a friend 22 "Gunsmoke" bell 3 Children's 
star James 53 Prestige author R. L. -­24 Vulgar one 56Villad'--4 League: Abbr. 26 Tyke 58 Actress 5 Audiophile's 2770's-80's Gardner setup 
Yankee pitching 59 Major league 6 Quitter's word 
ace brothers' name 7"1t's--!" (proud parents' phrase) 
8 Singer Rawls 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
9 Shepherd's pie ingredients 10 Publicity seekers·acts 
11.Smog 
graph 13 Ole -­
musical instrument 23 Flagmaker Betsy 25 Opposed to, in the backwoods 28 Playground equipment 29 Overhangs 


The Observer 

Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Aries:Spend your energy in pursuit of fun and romance. Relationships enter a playful stage today. Your sense of humor runs toward the cre­ative end of the spectrum. 
Taurus:The time has come to clean house and to make sure that a mess of this size never happens again. The way you live is a picture of your pride and humility. Your personal affect is influenced by your family dynamic. 
Gemini:Style counts for a lot today. You appreciate the mes­sage but are repulsed by the messenger. You win a contest by totally outclassing your opponent.­
Cancer:Your generosity to yourself extends into the lives of others today. Remember that buying a friend cheapens the friendship, no matter how much you pay. Go with your impulse instead of your agen­da. 
Leo:The Moon has come to 
visit Leo's house, bringing you 
the gift of yourself. Flaunt who 
you are. Do exactly what you 
want to do. You are guaranteed 
success in all pursuits today. 
Virgo:Today you are faced with the consequences of a mistake you made. At the moment, you have no real choice but to stand there and be scolded. Your opportunity to try making everything right will come soon enough. 
Libra:Be supportive of others today. As a community resource, you may get more than your share of people com­ing to you for help. At the moment, you are comfortable in this role. In the future, you'll be owed many favors. 

Scorpio:Your professional life promises a new set of frustra­tions. The best approach for today is the subtle attack. Staying with the program might be the best problem solv­ing tool of all. 
Sagittarius:Do not let some­one else's offensive behavior spoil your good mood. The Leo Moon makes you resilient and socially immune to idiots. Your mission today is too important to be diverted by petty conflict. 
Capricorn:Joint ventures are not favored today. Others are much less inclined to share than you would prefer them to be. Avoid all tempting invita­tions and spend the day work­ing alone. 
Aquarius:Compromise is the only way out of a fierce strug­gle today. Each party loses something so tha~ all might gain. A relationship is enriched if it survives this difficult moment. 
Pisces:The time has come to 
dive into your longstanding 
mess and organize it. Not 
everyone can navigate a filing 
system based on your personal 
intuition. Translate into con­
ventional logic if you want oth­
ers to understand. 
u 
.: 
l ~ 
"' 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
Make checks payable to: and mail to: The Observer 

P.O. BoxQ Notre Dame, IN 46556 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ARE '{OU SAYING 1-\E 
UNDERSTANDS THE CONCEPT 
OP.. l-IE J"U5T
OF''TIME'' 
GOT LUCI<..Y ON 
NOW? 

Tl-\15 ONE. 


30 Research 
money 31 Not quite shut 32 Stare, as at a 
crystal ball 33 Checked out 34 Pull apart 35"--Ben 
Adhem" 3&Jeanne-­
{French saint) 40 Eating alcoves 41 Pickle flavoring 43 Italian money 44 Nonsense 4&Hawaiian 
medicine man 

47 Frolicking 55 Nickel or animals copper, but not 50 Lash --ofold tin westerns 
56 Therefore 51 Call forth 
57 Three-player52 Went out with card game 53 Old Testament 61 "Yecch!"
murderer 54--mater 62 Blaster's need 
D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 
D Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ Address _______________________________________ City ________ State ____ Zip.________ • 
-
• 

-
SPORTS 
page 20 Monday, February 9, 1998 
• MEN's BASKETBAll 

Hoyas knockout punchless Irish, 76-56 
By MIKE DAY simply have no chance of win-switching it up and keeping us Sports Editor ning. Garrity must live up to guessing," said Garrity, who his Big East player of the year finished the game with 15 WASIIINGTON title if Notre Dame has any points. ''I'm just not making 
It was the same old story that hopes of coming out on the the shots right now that I'm Irish fans have had to endure winning end. supposed to make. It's a little too many times over the last On Saturday afternoon, the frustrating, but sometimes I few seasons. The problem is story was told for the guess these things happen." that this tired. exeruciating tale umpteenth time. Garrity Unfortunately for Notre has gotten worse in the past wasn't himself, so the Irish sim­Dame, these things have been two weeks. ply had no chance, falling 76-happening too often lately. 
It gons something like this: If 56 to Georgetown at the MCI Over the past four games, star forward Pat Garrity sufl'ers Center. Garrity has been held to 15 through an ofT night, the Irish "They did a good job of points or less an uncharacteris­tic three times. And by the way. the Irish have lost all
-
three of those games. "Pat is the heart and soul of this team, and for us to be suc­cessful, he must be successful," said sophomore shooting guard Keith Friel. "Otherwise, we could be in trouble." Another ominous trend in recent weeks has been the team's penchant for falling behind early. Only a crippled turtle would be proud of the team's slow start on Saturday as the Irish watched the Iloyas jump out to a 15-3 lead. Although Notre Dame did rally late in the first half to tighten the game at 21-19, Georgetown answered the call immediately, finishing the half on a 11-4 run to take a 32-23 lead into the intermission. "Getting ahead helped us a The Observer/John Dally 
... 
lot. It forced them to come Irish center Hans Rasmussen battles Georgetown's Jameel Watkins 
after us," said Georgetown and Nate Burton for position in Saturday's 76-56 loss to the Hoyas. 
coach John Thompson. 
14-for-18 performance from added 16 on 7 -lilr-11 shooting.
The more aggressive, more 
the free-throw line helped "They jumped on us early in
athletic lloyas turned their 
Georgetown put the game away the first half, and then turned 
game up a notch in the second 
early in the second half. around and did the same thing
half before a crowd of 16,609. 
Boubacar Aw led the way with in the second half as well," said 
The Observer/John Daily Fifty-eight percent shooting 
a game-high 19 points, while
Forward Pat Garrity, shown here chasing a loose ball, suffered from the field to go along with a 
shooting guard Shernard Long
through an uncharacteristic 5-for-15 shooting performance. see B-BALL I page 16 

• HOCKEY 

leers move to sixth in CCHA 
By CHARLEY GATES host Ohio State on Friday night brought a sold-out Joyce Center Spons Writer and have three games remain­crowd to its feet just 79 seeonds ing with Northern Michigan. into the game with his 18th Notre Dame's hockey team Leap-frogging in the stand­goal of the season. He took a had a tremendous weekend, ings is definitely on the minds pass from sophomore Ben capturing three points courtesy of the Irish. · Simon (who leads the team with 
(. of a 1-1 tic on Friday night with "We are still after home-ice 19 assists) and beat Bowing Bowling 
advantage," explained junior Green goaltender Shawn Timm (;reen and a forward Aniket Dhadphalc, who from the slot. But Timm would 7-1 victory broke the 20-goal barrier this prove unsolvabe for the over Ferris weekend. "We have a legiti­remainder of the game, turning S t a t e mate shot at it and we just need away the next 39 shots he University. to take advantage of the games faced. This vault­we have left against higher­Later in the period, senior ed tlw Irish ranked opponents." center Steve Noble set up (14-13-4 Senior center Lyle Andrusiak Andrusiak in front of the net, overall. 9-10-Dhadphale agreed. "We have critical and Andrusiak one-timed a 4 CCIIA) into games ahead of us. We want to shot past Timm. But the goal a tie for sixth plaee in the finish in the top four, and we was waved off. supposedly Central Collegiate Hockey feel that it's still in our hands. because Dhadphale had skated Assoeiation league standings. We'll :1ave to play hard, and through the crease prior to the "To get three out of four down the stretch anything can goal. The call would prove cru­points in mid-February on a happen." cial to the game's outcome. CCIIA weekend is terrific," said On Friday evening, a contro­Bowling Green knotted the ]wad eoach Dave Poulin. versial call disallowed what game at the 7:20 mark of the With 22 points, the Boys of would have been Notre Dame's second period on an unassited Wint1~r sit in a tic for sixth second goal and what would goal by junior Dan Price. From place. They trail fifth-place have won the game. The Irish there on out it was duel Northern Michigan by five had to setttle for a 1-1 tie with between Timm and senior Irish points and fourth place Ohio Bowling Green, who sits in the State by seven points. The Irish CCHA cellar. Dhadphale see HOCKEY I page 17 
• Men's Basketball, Track and Field, 
• TRACK AND fiELD 
Irish finish strong at Meyo Invitational 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN Notre Dame came out on Sports Writer top in six men's events and three women's events, even Nine individual victories, without pole vaulter and two provisional qualifications school record-holder Mike for the NCAA championships, Brown, or a Notre Dame and two meet records: All entry in the mile relay. these add up to another suc­Brown did not compete cessful meet for the Notre because he is recovering Dame track and field team. from a hamstring injury, and 
The Fighting Irish hOsted the Irish pulled out of the their first home meet of the mlle relay because team season on Friday and member Chris Cochran's leg Saturday, the adidas/Meyo was bothering him. Invitational, at Meyo Track "We had probably about 25 and Field in the Loftus Sports people run their personal Center. The Meyo Track tra· record." said head coach Joe ditionally gets fast results: it Piane. "That's the way that is the largest indoor track on you want to go into the Big the collegiate level in the East meet, which has been United States. Michigan, our number one goal all 
,,Michigan State, Purdue, along. There were so many 
'\!\Kansas, and a number of great performances. That's unattached individual athM the way that you want the letes participated in the season to go. ninth annual running of the "Sometimes I worry early meet. 
see MEYO I page 15 
vs. Boston College 

at Buder Invitational a) 
• The Observer begins Winter 
February II, 7:30p.m. 

February 12, 7 p.m. 
• 
Women's Basketball,
• 
Men's Tennis, ~ Olympics coverage today 
• ....
vs. St. John's 

vs. Kentucky 
see page 18

.. February 12, 7 p.m . 
• February II, 3:30p.m.• CIJ •
Women's Tennis, SMC basketball wins again 
• 
Women's Basketball, 
vs. St. John's 

at UNLV 
see page 17 

February 12, 7 p.m. Tomorrow, 1:30 p.m. ~ 
-----------------~ 





