
• Three University of Kentucky basketball 
• Don't forget to vote today, if you haven't already. 
Tuesday
players received four-game suspensions 
Check out where to cast your ballot in South Bend. 
Monday for a variety of off-court incidents. 
NOVEMBER 
Sports • 12 
News· 4 
3, 1998 



Gude to chair gay student needs group 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
Associate News Editor 
Thn subjnet of gay and lns­hian student rwnds rontinues to evolve with thn appointmnnt of Sister Mary l.ouisn Gudt~ as chair of llw· University's ,-------., 
Standing 
0
Committee on Lesbian and (;ay ·..·_;. 
Stud!'nt · NPnds for tlu• t--'\, I IJIJX-IJIJ ;u~a-' .,.2f 
d(•mic year. 
(;udn is Gude ('UITPntly an associate proft~ssional special­

ist in the Bomanco languages dnpartnwnt and assistant vice president of Student Affairs, but she thinks that her own experiences with the gay and lesbian community havn bnsl prepared her for the job as chair of thn three-year-old committee. 
"I was asked if I would work in a gay and lnsbian support group. I said yns beeausn of my experiences in grad school with gays and lesbians." she said. 
"I beli(we that people have nxpnriPnces for a rnason. Agreeing to co-sponsor tho support group with Father Tom Gaughan was important to do. Somewhere, my life expnriences led me to it," Gude explained. 
Whitt~ completing her gradu­ate work at the University of Pennsylvania in tho 1970s, Gude said that a questioning student approached her for guidance. 
At that point, the forum for homosexual discussion was very limited, and Gude realized that this was a field in need of altnntion. 
"The years in college are profound years of searching. Students come to terms with issues of maturity and identity very differently," Gude said. 
Beginning its third year. the eommittee was established by Patricia O'Hara, vice president for student affairs, in agree­ment with a recommendation of the Ad Hoc Committee on Lesbian and Gay Student Needs, which made the sugges­tion in its February 1996 final report. The committee is intended to serve as a resource to O'Hara in identifying needs of gay and lesbian students, continuing the dialogue initiat­ed by the ad hoe committee, and assisting in the implemen­
see GUDE I page 6 

Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
embers of the Notre Dame womens' boxing club take their daily three-mile run. More than 100 box­ers started training last week, which also includes push-ups, sit-ups, shadow-boxing and learning ng techniques. The club practices an hour-and-a-half daily. 



Election '98: The House and Senate 
Profs predict no big change in House 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
DespilP potPnlial ba,·klash from voters fed up with tht~ Clinton-I.Pwinsky scandal. the Republican party will likely maintain its majority in the House after today's elections, nxpPrts sU'J · 
The Hepublkans. who currently control 228 of the 435 seats in the U.S. !louse of Hepresentatives, appear to be safe in maintaining that lead and may even increase it. said Peri Arnold. professor of gov­ernment. 
"Thn most probablfl bet is a relatively small increase in the number of Hepubliean seats," he said. 
Others around campus echoed his ideas. 
"The Hepublicans hold the majority now and the way it looks, they will most likely increase their majority by a few seats," said junior Keven Larkin, president of the Notre Dame College Democrats. "I would say the Republicans still hold the edge in most of' tho races." 
Assuming that the Republicans do maintain their lead, this would follow the historical pattern for midterm elections. Since the Civil War, the President's party has increased its numbers in the midterm election only once, said Larkin. 
see HOUSE I page 4 


SENATE 
HOUSE 



Projected GOP gains seen dwindling 
By ROBERT PAZORNIK News Wrirer 

Only weeks ago, the Republican party seemed poised to gain the additional live seals necessary for a 60-s1~at filibuster-proof majority in the U.S. Senate. 
But today. according to top political analysts, that confidence is only a memory. 
"The Hepublicans will definitely not have as large a majority as they had hoped for," said Pat Pierce, asso­ciate professor of political scionce at Saint Mary's. "Their current expectations-that they won't roach 60 seats-is right on the money." 
If the Republicans could pick up only live seats in the Senate, they would enjoy the benefits or a filibuster­proof majority, according to Sean Savage, associate professor of political science at Saint Mary's. This would make matters tough for Senate Democrats, who would not be able to filibuster in order to prolong dis­cussion or weaken support for proposed issues. This might be especially pertinent, said Savage. if a vote on Bill Clinton's conviction were to reach the Senate. 
"A conviction in Senate requires a two-thirds majori­ty," he said. "The inability of Democrats to weaken the vote through filibustering could very seriously hurt Clinton's chances [of exoneration]." 
Overall, most analysts agree that although Clinton's scandal will play a factor in today's election, it will not 
see SENATE I page 6 
• 
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 

Riddle Me That 

Scenario: I was walking out of DeBartolo yesterday when I noticed something strange. No, not the smell-I noticed that a long time ago. What I noticed this time really bothered 
me; it struck a strange  
chord.  Robert Pazornik  
I was proceeding down  Copy Editor  
the path which leads  

kind of between Hayes-Healy and the building 
where all of the art students hang out, and 
then I saw it. 

It's big. It's red. And it looks like someone's trying to dredge for oil in the middle of South Quad. I don't know what this scarlet monstros­ity is supposed to represent, or what in God's name it's doing here, but someone calls it art, so I guess I'll have to get used to it. 
But wait a second. Just two days ago, as I was walking down that same path from DB between Hayes and the art building, there was this odd looking putrid yellow geometric shaped deformity there. Actually it had been there ever since I can remember. And if you walk a little farther down that path, you'll find that the white-head-bust-thing with the red writing on the side has also been dislocated from its normal location, replaced by some 20­foot high aluminum lightning rod, which is also called art. I. personally, call it a lightning rod. 
But now I'm confused. 
Where has all the crappy art gone? Has the administration tired of their former crappy art selections and decided to replace them with all new crappy art? Was the local auto-wreckage facility overstocked on twisted metal and had to unload some real cheap? But, wait, the hijinks don't end here. 
If you stand where the white bust used to be, and rotate your body 75 degrees about its cen­tral axis, you 'II notice that the bust is actually about 20 feet away, still standing there looking stupid. In other words, the crap art to which I have grown so accustomed has not been destroyed, sold for scrap iron, or sent back to Meijer, but instead has simply been moved 20 feet to the right of it's former position. I can't believe it. 
Pure genius. Why hasn't anybody thought of this before? Doesn't it make perfect sense? 
You can make bad art better by moving it around! What before looked like an oversized cockroach farm made out of macaroni pellets and copper tubing now looks like a freaking Picasso when you put it on the other side of the sidewalk! If you change the location of modern art, it looks prettier. and besides, it looks like you bought new art when in fact you're just rotating the same crap around the campus at periodic intervals. 
So riddle me that. When will the administra­tion learn? If you move a piece of junk from South Quad to North Quad, that doesn't mean you no longer have a piece of junk-it just means that you have a piece of junk with a view of the Dome. Think about that. If moving things around made them Jess offensive and grotesque. we would have moved the editors of Right Reason out their dorms a lo~g time ago. Hell, we would have put them on a two month dorm rotation world tour. By the end of the semester those guys would be transformed into overzealous, tree-hugging hippie children. But wait, then we'd have two PSA's. That's no good. 
It kind of makes you wonder. is it the admin­istration's policy to move around everything that it doesn't like? Hmmmm. 1always won­dered why The Observer's in the basement now... 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF 
News Scene Tim Logan Michelle Barron Tom Enrighr Graphics Manhew Turner 
Scon Hardy Sports Production Mike Connolly 
Kerry Smith Viewpoint Lab Tech Eddie Llull Job Turner 

The Observer {USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is " member of the Associated Press. All reproduc.:tion rights are reserved. 
The Observer· INSIDE Tuesday, November 3, 1998 



utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 


Hackers invade Stanford University e-mail system 
STANFORD, Calif. 
The FBI is investigating a hacking incident discovered Monday in which 5,000 Leland computer system pass­words were stolen. It was the first major break-in on Stanford University's Leland system, officials said. 
The Leland system is perhaps best known as the hub of Stanford's stu­dent e-mail accounts. The break-in took place on Oct. 11, but, it wasn't until two weeks later that officials discovered the presence of a "snif­fer," a software program that can intercept login names and passwords in two Leland Systems workstations. 
The hacking connection was made directly from Sweden to Stanford . 
"[The fact that] there are several addresses in Sweden and a machine in Canada, combined with other fac­tors, led us to believe these individu­als are in Sweden," said Stephen 

Stanford, which is taking no new action to improve its network security in response to the incident, has turned the case over to the FBI. 
According to Dennis Michael, man­ager of Leland Systems, hacking is a very serious felony. 
"It's a crime to use somebody's password without their permission," he said. 
Over the preceding two weeks, 4,500 Leland account passwords, along with 250 non-SUNet ID pass­words and 250 off-campus pass­words, had been compromised. The accounts affected are mostly student accounts. Only 5 to 10 percent of the accounts involved are those of staff and faculty, said Hansen. 
So far the hacker has used only one out of 5,000 accounts. The Web sites and home pages associated with the stolen passwords have not been affected by this incident, said Hansen. 
The only way to hack into the Leland system is by actually logging into a machine on campus, according to Hansen. Two original "sniffers" broke into the system in the Starke Publications Building and intercepted the password there to hack into the workstations in Sweet Hall. 
"The system on the second floor [of Sweet Hall] is the most secured on campus," said Hansen. "It's really just bad luck that they found this machine that is vulnerable." 

• KENT STATE UNIVERSITY 
Students support preacher's assailant 
KENT, Ohio 

The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual Union held a rally Thursday to protest student Ben Brucato's guilty sanc­tion of disorderly and disruptive conduct. The rally, held in the Kent State Student Center plaza, showed support for Brucato who was accused of assaulting traveling preacher Charles Spingola. Michelle Touve, vice execu­tive director of LGBU, said Spingola is the guilty party in the matter. "He keeps coming back to insult LGBU and everyone else he thinks is ungodly," Touve said. "He insults, degrades and hits us. This is our campus, our plaza. We pay to go to Kent State. We are the ones who live here and we have the right to be protected. Ben was just standing up to him for everyone else." Chuck Graham, a minister of the United Christ Methodist Church, said he agreed with Touve. "A university is a place for ideas and concerns to be expressed and exchanged," Graham said. 
• TUFTS UNIVERSITY 

University ranks among safest schools 
MEDFORD, Mass. 

According to a recent article in the New York Post, Tufts' security department is among the most reliable, making Tufts one of the safest universities in the country. Earlier this year, an organization called "Security on Campus" presented the Tufts Department of Public Safety with the Jeanne Cleary Campus Safety Award for its work on reporting crimes honestly )lnd effectively, leading to the PosJ's naming of Tufts as an extremely safe institution. The organization. which was set up to monitor the state of campus safety throughout the coun­try, annually gives the award to a school that exhibits what security on campus administrative assistant Myra Kodner terms, "compliance with the laws and doing things that are in the best interest of the law and stu­dents." Tufts' Director of Public Safety John King said open disclosure of information is essential for an effec­tive public safety organization. 
• YALE UNIVERSITY 


Theater collapse forces evacuations 
NEW I-lAVEN. Conn. 
A second-floor projector booth of the aging Hyperion Theater, collapsed at 1:30 a.m. Sunday morning just as stu­dents were returning home from Halloween night festivities. The collapse sent slabs of concrete. bricks and steel raining down on Hyperion Court and created a thick cloud of smoke over Chapel Street. No injuries were reported. The Red Cross evacuated some Chapel Street residents, and some nearby businesses suffered damages. The accident occurred when a loose truss beam gave way inside the Hyperion Theater, a turn of the century opera house (and later movie theater). "It sounded like Metro North had been rerouted through Chapel Street," said Charles Johnston, who Jives above Rainbow Cafe. "By the time the fire alarm went off. everyone in the building was already up." Earlier this year. the city had condemned the building, which has been vacant for more than two decades. Workers were complet­ing demolition of the property when the booth fell. 
• UNIVERSITY OF NEBRASKA 


Students talk to 'Einstein' via computer 
LINCOLN, Neb. 
Dr. Albert Einstein, world-famous physicist and developer 
of the theory of relativity, visited the University of Nebraska­
Lincoln last week to field questions from students about his 
life and work. Actually, although Einstein postulated that 
time was relative, he didn't arrive in Lincoln via a time 
warp. Einstein, who died in 1955, "spoke" to students 
through a "synthetic interview" process developed by Scott 
Stevens and others at Carnegie Mellon University. Stevens, a 
former UNL assistant physics professor, demonstrated his 
synthetic interview with Einstein to student<> last week for 
Master's Week at UNL. Stevens and other researchers pored 
over Einstein's writings and speeches. seeking to find 
answers to questions commonly asked about Einstein. When 
they had compiled the material, they asked an actor to don 
a disheveled white wig and recite four hours' worth of 
Einstein's sayings. The actor was videotaped. and the 
footage was stored on a computer. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather® forecast for noon,Tuesday, '•.Jov. 3.

5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 



Tuesday ~ 48 25 Wednesday~ 45 25 Thursday ~ 44 26 
Friday ~"'' 4~ 25 
.&...&. ~ 
...............

•. j ....•. 
@ 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLD WARM STATIONARY Pressure:


Saturday /~t(f 45 26 
®©DDc::::JEmESJEJ ·() ~· ~~ 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy

,\5'"'"~]--''-~·-../'" • .. 
Vta Assoctared Press Atlanta 70 48 Columbus 49 27 Miami 84 70 Baltimore 50 36 Dallas 70 54 New York 50 38 Boise 50 34 Denver 48 26 Phoenix 80 58


4,9!,~4~8 (f ~ u 
Burbank 76 57 Honolulu 81 68 St. Louis 49 34 

Showers r:storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 46 32 Indianapolis 49 27 Topeka 42 31 

Via Associated Press GraphicsNst 
---------" 


Tuesday, November 3, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• STUDENT GOVERNMENT 


Academic Pride Week holds faculty lunches 
Special co The Observer faculty outside of the class­
room and hopefully develop 
Studont Government is spon· some long-term relationships soring Academic Pride Week with them," said student body from today until Friday in the president Pete Cesaro. "We Hospitcdity Boom of South are f'ulfilling our campaign Dining promise to Hall. 
improve 
T h i s fac u I ty­
will pro­'THIS WILL BE student vide an AN ENRICHING relations." opportu­Other
EXPERIENCE FOR

nity l'or members students STUDENTS.' of the to nsk Cesaro d e a n s adminis­a n d PETER CESARO t r a t i o n adminis­STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT a g r e e d , tmtors in noting atten-that this dance questions about their will provide an opportunity for 
respective colleges and about students and faculty to inter­t!Hlir own personal experi· act in a difi'erent setting. en cos. "The type of conversation 
The College of Arts and that can be sparked in a LtltlBrS is sehedultld for today, relaxed atmosphere over College of Business lunch is very different than Administration on Wednesday, that which takes place at the First Year of Studies on end of a class or during office Thursday, and tho Colleges of hours," said Andrea Kavoosi, Engineering, Seience and of Student Government's Architecture on Friday. Academic Relations commit­
"This will be an enriching tee. "This is a wondert'ul experience for students, allow­opportunity for both the deans ing them to meet with their and the students." 
Universitv of Notre Dame lnternationai Study Program in 
' I 


ANGERS, FRANCE 
1999 • 00 Academic Year 
"Where Do We Go From Here?" With l,rof'essor Paul McDowell 
TUESDAY NOVEMBER 3, 1998 
7:00 P.M. ROOM 217 DEBARTOLO 

Returnln~t student• will be on hand to answer questions 
12-1 in the Hospitality Room next to Reekers 
November 3......Arts &Letters 
November 4...............COBA 
November. S..................FYS 
November 6..........SC, EG, AR 

Come Eat Lunch With Your College! 
Student receives high Navy award 
Fishburne honored for saving a life 
By M. SHANNON RYAN Sainr Mary's Editor 
John Fishburne sat down in 
the mess hall during Notre 
Dame Navy ROTC's summer 
training camp expecting a sim­
ple lunch with his fellow mid­
shipmen. 
Minutes later he had saved 
his friend's life. 
Fishburne, a sophomore in 
his second year of the Navy 
HOTC program at Notre Dame, 
received the Navy 
Achievement Medal on Friday 
for performing the Heimlich 
maneuver on Notre Dame 
sophomore Matt O'Brien at the 
July camp in Jacksonville, Fla. 
"Earning the Navy Achievement Medal is unheard of for a student," said Lieutenant Jeff Kaman, a pro­l'essor with Notre Dame's NROTC. "He was the only one to respond immediately. He's an intelligent ... take-charge kind of guy. Any time someone performs a life-saving method, he's· definitely deserving of this award." 
Fishburne said he just let something in him take over when O'Brien turned to him, gesturing for help after a piece of pineapple lodged in his throat and cut off his breath­ing for about 40 seconds. 
"At first, I didn't think it was serious,)hen I saw he was turning blue," Fishburne said. 
"I was never scared. I just did for assistance. Shortly after he "He was the one who took it." attempted the Heimlich, the first action and he actually O'Brien first felt the food O'Brien was breathing normal­got O'Brien breathing again," blocking his air path and tried 
ly. the letter read. "I think the drinking to make the food go 
"He is always willing to help sailor did a great job, but so down. When that did not work, someone," O'Brien said. "He's did Fishburne, and he he hit Fishburne and pointed 
always there, ready to do deserves at least the same to his own chest. 
whatever's needed. There's award." "lie hit me in the back and more now than him just being At the award ceremony. 
then came in front to look at my ROTC buddy. He saved my which was kept as a surprise me. I couldn't talk but I was life. I owe him for that." for Fishburne, the midshipman like, 'Man, this is not work­Still, Fishburne is downplay­received the credit many 
ing,"' said O'Brien. "I was ing the hero role. believed he rightly deserved. 
really getting scared. I mean, I "I feel lucky that l was the As the medal with a Navy fleet came close to dying." O'Brien, guy sitting next to him," he engraved into it and an orange like Fishburne, lives in 
said. ''I'm sure anyone sitting and green ribbon was added to [next to O'Brien] would have his battalion medals,

Jacksonville and his father is in the military. done the same thing." Fishburne could not help but Although Fishburne's knowl­After the sailor who helped feel proud. edge of the Heimlich maneuver O'Brien earned the Navy "It's a pretty big honor," said 
was limited to high school Achievement Award, the Fishburne, who plans to health class, he was able to NROTC unit received an become a naval surface war clear an airway. He then asked anonymous letter from anoth­officer after graduation. ''I'm 
a CPR-qualified, enlisted sailor er sailor at the NAS, request­proud to think that when I 
sitting nearby at the Cecil ing that Fishburne be granted actually get out there, I'll Field Naval Air Force Station the same mark of honor. already have this medal." 
Please 



recycle



Take the 
The


less-traveled 
Observer 

Give us one year. 


road 
Give yourself the chance. 
For more information on the Holy Cross one-year Candidate Program contact 
Moreau Seminary 
Notre Dame, IN 46556 
(219) 631-6385 
http://www.nd.edu/-vocation 
ANSWER""d:;;­
THECALL'<!>J 





---------------------------------------------------------~ 
Tuesday, November 3, 1998

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 
House 
continued from page 1 
"Obviously history is not on the Democrats' side," he said. "Here the Republicans will most likely stretch their lead on the House." 
One factor that may throw all these numbers off is the ongo­ing investigation into the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal. As the House considers impeach­ment hearings, voters may use this election to send a message to Capitol Hill. 
"I think it's going to backlash on the Republican party," said junior Laura Antkowiak, presi­dent of the Notre Dame College Republicans. "I think it's really going to turn voters off to the election process, sadly, and to the Republican party. I think 
1 it's going to be an important issue in terms of whether they show up at the polls." 
Arnold also expressed con­cern about the public losing interest as a result of the scan­dal and continuing investiga­tion. 
"My fear is that ... this kind of event feeds some cynicism and that cynicism results in people withdrawing from politics," he said. 
Larkin does not feel that the scandal should play any role unless voters use it to put an end to the investigation. 
"To me, Clinton-Lewinsky is a non-issue," he said. "I think it should be a non-issue. That's what we'd like it to be. The only way it is an issue, at least for Democratic voters, is that they'd like to see it end. That might give them an extra incen­tive to kick some Republicans out of the House." 

That may be exactly what happens, said Vincent DeSantis, professor emeritus of history. 
"It's possible that some [Republican] members of the House Judiciary Committee could lose their seats because of their involvement in the impeachment matter," he said. "The polls show that the public believes the Democrats are more interested in the issues than the Republicans, who are concerned with impeachment." 
DeSantis explained that everyone mentions education, health care, campaign financ­ing and term limits around election time, but there is little talk of these issues among politicians, especially among the Republicans in Congress. 
"There is not much discussion about [the issues]," he said. "The Democrats discuss more about the issues than the Republicans. The big thing for the Republicans is impeach­ment." 
This election seems to be 
more about the way candidates 
present themselves than about 
specific topics. 
"I think it's going to come down to personality of the can­didates more than the big issues," she said. 
Although every member of the House is up for re-election, Arnold explained that the important races are those with­out an incumbent running again. There are about 40 of these races, he said. 
"The key races are the open seats," he said. "There are very few endangered incumbents in this race. If there is a general rule, it's that incumbents win." 
Incumbents win because they have financial support, some­times as much as 10:1 over their opposition, and because people are more familiar with their names, Arnold said. 
A local example of this is incumbent Tim Roemer, run­ning for re-election in Indiana's third district. 
"Declare Roemer a winner today," Arnold said, noting Roemer's organizational skills that only come with experience in the office. "He just blows away opponents. He's a win­ner." 
DeSantis also used Roemer as an example, pointing to the importance of name recogni­tion. 
"I don't know the name of the 
opponent," he said. "That's 
always the problem for the 
opponent." 
Another factor that may alter the results of today's election is voter turnout. One of the biggest problems facing Democrats is low voter turnout, Larkin said. 
"Many of the Democratically­
thinking people are in inner 
cities, which won't get good 
turnout," he said. 

THE 26th ANNUAL 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE 
Madrigal Dinners 
Fri. & Sat., Dec. 4 & 5 at 7 pm Sun., Dec. 6 at 2 & 7 pm Regina North Lounge 

This festive holiday event features a menu fit for a king plus entertain­


-f%1­
ment by colorfully-attired jesters, musicians, and singers from the 
SAINT Saint Mary's-Notre Dame Colle­
219/284-4778 





MICK MOLONEY 
World renowned story teller and m us cia n PRESENTS 





Irish Fa#iine 
ff in Song& 
evening 


an Story
with Miele Moloney 
i.s a totally unforgettable 



WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 1998 
Hesburgh Library Auditorium 

7:30PM 

Sponsored by lnstilutc for Scho/ars/1ip in tlw Liberal Arts, Kcoup/1 ln.slifufc vj irish Siudics, Cuslm·a CtJntcr ,md D.,parlmcnts aj!Iisfory and .Anthropology 
----------~-----~-----~-------~-------~-~ 
-----~---~----~---. 

Tuesday, November 3, 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. consults allies on Iraq 
WASI-IINGTON l'rt~sident Clinton said Monday that Iraq's announced dndsion to stop cooperating with 
U.N. arms inspm:tors will backlire and deep­en international resolve. lie sent Defense Secretary William Cohen to consult with allit)S and said "no options are off the table" for a possible response. "Saddam llussein's latnst refusal to cooperate with the interna­tional weapons inspectors is completely un;u:ceptable," Clinton said shortly after mtwting with Cohen and his other top national security aides. "Once again, though, it will b;u:kfin~." tlw President said. "Far from dividing the international community and achieving concessions. his obstruction­ism was irnmediat<dy and unanimously con­dt)mned by thn United Nations Security Council. It has only snrved to deepen the international community's resolve." Clinton's remarks wp,re nwant to underline that Anwrican military strikes remain an option, tlw Pentagon said. 

Leaders delay Mideast peace 
JEHUSALEM 
In a surprising show of good will, Prime 
MinistPr Bt•njarnin Netanyahu and 
Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat agreed 
Monday-the day the nt)W Mideast peace 
agrPPIIWilt was to take effeet -that imple­
nwntation would have to be delayr)d. In a 
tt'lt)plwnn rail. Nntanyahu promised Arafat 
their land-for-security agreenwnt would be 
rarrind out as nfficiPntly as possible. 
Spncilically. lsratd said it would attempt to 
meet tlw target date of Nov. 16 for the initial 
troop pullback from the West Bank. 
llowevnr. Israel r.harged that a Palestinian 
action plan to light tnrrorism, at the heart of 
tho nnw accord. was incomplete and could 
knock back implnmentation even further. In 
Washington, State Department spokesman 
.!amos Hubin said "tlw necessary plans were 
providml on timn." But Netanyahu's senior 
advistH', David Bar-IIlan, told The Associated 
Pross that the document was incomplete and 
unlnss a nower version was submitted, 
Israel's Cabinnt would not debate the accord 
as schedulnd Tunsday. Senior Palestinian 
rwgotiator Saeb Erekat said the document 
was a matter between the Palestinians and 
ttw Unitml States and not Israel. 

FBI declares scare a hoax 
INDIANAPOLIS 
An anthmx scare at night abortion clinics 
in four Midwnstern states was pronounced a 
hoax Monday. Tests found no evidenee that 
any of the night threatening letters received 
on Friday and Saturday eontained the dead­
ly bactnria or any other bactnrial agent, FBI 
spokesman Bill Carter said. The FBI said it 
has no suspects. 

Nasdaq:

+114.05 1800.91 
t29.52 

tr 
NYSE: 551.24 +7.89 
Composite Volume: 757,480,000 

rllMCilt:a:  IlfiEB  '!1t! ~~~~Sd  srll6~i:i~  I!Biff  
Clf.NA CORP  CIF.N  +26.91  +4.6250  21.8125  
CITIGHOUI' INC  CCI  ·1.86  ·0.8750  46.125  
I'AIRlit\IN TF.Cil  PAIR  +65.7K  +5.4062  13.625  
OELL COMPUTER  lJEI.I.  +0.95  +0.6250  66.125  
l:ISCO SYSTF.MS  C5CO  +2.68  +1.6875  64.6875  
INTEL COR I'  1NTC  +2.94  +2.6250  91.8125  
MICROSOFT CORP  MSFr  -0.06  ·0.0625  105.8125  
CtlMI'AQ C(lMI'UTER VAI.F. RIO DOC-AilR  CPQ CVROY  .0.20 ·1.20  .().0625 ·0.1875  31.5625 15.1  
YAIIOO INC  YIIOO  +11.15  +14.5937  145.4375  

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• NICARAGUA 


Hurricane Mitch death toll tops 7,000 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
CHINANDEGA 
Overwhelmed by death and chaos, Central Ameriean officials on Monday estimated more than 7,000 people died in floods and mudslides triggered by Hurricane Mitch. 
As Nicaraguan officials here strug­gled to aceount for 1,500 people feared buried by a mudslide, Honduran President Carlos Flores Facusse made an emotional appeal for international aid and announeed he was declaring the equivalent of a state of siege to combat looting. 
"There are corpses everywhere, vic­tims of landslides or of the waters," the President said in a nationally broad­cast speech. "The most conservative calculations of the dead are in the thousands, not in the hundreds." 
"I ask the international community for human solidarity," he said. 
The same was true across the bor­der: as many as 1,500 people were buried near this town in northwest Nicaragua when the crater lake of the Casitas Volcano collapsed, sending a wall of mud and debris onto villages below. 
"It looked like a line of helicopters !lying really low and coming at us. You could see houses, trees, everything being covered," said Ricardo Antonio Garcia, a 23-year-old farmer whose leg was amputated after being crushed in the mudslide. 
Nicaraguan Vice-President Enrique Bolanos said the slide apparently killed 1,000 to 1,500 people and that some 600 other people died elsewhere in the country. 
"We perhaps will never know how many people died," he said. In neighboring Honduras, "more than 5,000 people" probably died, 
AFP Photo

Dimas Alonzo, operations chief for the National Emergency Committee, told a A Honduran child lies under rubble left by Hurricane Mitch on Monday. The death toll local radio station. He said the exact from the storm has risen to more than 7,000 people. 
number would never be known. 
help officials fight looting and vandalism.

Many parts of Honduras remained cut off almost a week AP photographer Victor Caivano, who visited Guanaja,after Mitch barreled into the Bay Island of Guanaja with said only 10 of the 146 houses in the town of Mangrove180 mph winds. The storm pounded across the isthmus, Bight survived the storm, which hovered over the islanddropping up to 25 inches of rain in a six-hour period, for two days. The island, where flowers once abounded,before dissipating Monday in southern Mexico. 
was a desolate gray, with naked sticks of trees jutting outFlores Facusse said "the floods and landslides erased of the mud.

from the map many villages and households as well as Virtually all of Honduras suffered flooding, from the low­whole neighborhoods of cities." 
land marshes on the Atlantic Coast to the mountains. hills"We have before us a panorama of death, desolation and and plateaus of the interior.

ruin throughout the national territory," the President said. 
Floodwaters receded in the Honduran capital of

lie announced a "state of exception" suspending consti­
Tegucigalpa on Monday, but some residents carriedtutional liberties that allows authorities the right to 

machetes and guns bbecause of reports that looters withseizeproperty, detain suspects and unlimited searches to automatic rifles had attacked several houses. 



tic turnout 
"cast your vote for the Democrats and our future." An official with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, speaking Monday on con· dition of anonymity, said tho personal message from Clinton had spurred some potential voters to get involved in the turnout effort. 
"Alot of people were saying, 'Bill called me,"' the official said. 
The president's interviews targeted black and Hispanic audiences, the seg· .ment Of its constituency that the J)emocratic Party believes could be a 
·deciding factor in up to 35 House .races, in Senate races in Californla, Ulb;l.ois, New York and North Carolina, and ina number of gubernatorial con· tests. 

page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 3, 1998 
which suggest that Republicans will not achieve their goal of 60 
Brague: Physics has wide influence 
Senate 
Senate seats, the majority of 
continued from page 1 
benefit Republicans to the degree they might have hoped. 
"The Republicans thought, somewhat foolishly, that the [Clinton) scandal would be a great benefit to their candi­dates," said Pierce. "Finally, they're coming to realize that there will be no great Monica Lewinsky windfall. This is one of those times when fRepublicans) engaged in a great deal of wish­ful thinking and not enough careful thought." 
Continued polling indicates that voters won't be casting their votes solely on the basis of the Lewinsky scandal, according to Pierce. In fact, he said, there exists a great deal of evidence contrary to the opinion. 
"Consistent evidence tells us that the outcome of a midterm election is a function of two things: the popularity of the president and the performance of the economy. That shouldn't give Republicans much room for hope right now." 
Clinton's popularity ratings still hover in the mid to high fifties, not a great deal lower than before the Lewinsky scan­dal struck, according to the most recent Gallup polls. 
The economy, furthermore, is maintaining a positive outlook, despite widespread worries regarding the current Asian crises, experts say. 
But even based on these facts, 


Gude 
continued from page 1 
tation of campus-wide educa­tional programming on gay and lesbian issues. 
Gude elaborated the goals of the committee as creating awareness of the situations that many homosexual stu­dents face on campus and pro­gramming on issues related to homosexuality. Awareness is important because "sympathet­ic people can be better able to respond to questioning [and seeking students]," Gude said. 
During the 1997-98 academic year, the committee sponsored the creation of NETWORK: A Welcoming Place for Respectful Dialogue, an initiative designed to prepare members of the Notre Dame community who identify themselves as people willing to offer a confidential analysts agree that the Republican party will maintain a sizable Senate majority, said Pierce. 

"The Republicans will most certainly maintain their majori­ty, and I predict that they may pick up an additional two or three seats," he said. "But quite frankly, that's still going to make life very dif!icult for Bill Clinton." 
"This election is quite definite­ly an election of numbers," said Savage. "The Republicans prob­ably won't pick up their addi­tional five seats, but they will maintain a majority." 
Continued Republican Senate domination would mean contin­ued political stagnation, accord­ing to Pierce, who sees the impending results as a major obstacle to political success in the near future. 
"Divided leadership in the Senate will continue," he said. "Quite frankly, I can't predict that much productive political activity will come of that." 
Even less likely than Republicans achieving 60 Senate seats is the possibility that Democrats will win a majority of any kind, according to Christina Wolbrecht, who teaches government at Notre Dame. 
"A Democratic [Senate] major­ity would indicate a miracle," said Wolbrecht. "We would have a unified government, and that is a rare thing." 
and respectful place for discus­sion of gay and lesbian issues. The initiative will help deal with the psychological and the­ological implications of being a homosexual Notre Dame stu­dent. 
This year, the committee will continue to devote attention to the NETWORK program as well as arranging for more speakers to visit Notre Dame. 
Gude is joined on the com­mittee by Sister Sue Bruno, rector of Pasquerilla West Hall, undergraduate students Theresa Gibbons, Alyssa Hellrung and Mark Massoud, and Father Richard Warner, director of campus ministry and counselor to the president. Bruno, Warner, Hellrung and Massoud are returning mem­bers of the standing committee. Gude succeeds Bruno, who chaired the committee last year. 

HEY SHERLOCK! HBLP CRACK THB C4SB! 
By MICHAEL ROMANCHEK 
News Writer 

Ancient and medieval physics affects today's study of the nat­ural world, according to profes­sor Remi Brague, who addressed the question of "is physics interesting?" in his lec­ture on Monday. 
"Physics can't be brought to dwell on the two areas of life that interest us, this life and the next," Brague said. 
To dispute this argument he said natural physics is interest­ing because "we must go through it to become our­selves." 
Brague argued that modern technology has solved much of the paradoxes that faced classic physicists. 
The question of "How is it that we study things we can't make use of?" becomes less of a problem as technology advances, he said. 
"The utility of modern physics is taken for granted," said Brague. 
He used sources from ancient and medieval philoso­phers to support his argument for natural physics. He said Simplicius found physics applicable to humankind because "the greatest good it provides is that it is the best way that leads to knowledge of the soul-like substance as well as the intellectual and divine existence." 
This also leads to "wonder and magnification of the Maker," Brague said. "Physics can be instrumental to a high­er kind of knowledge ... the visible leads us to a higher rung in the ladder of under­standing." 
Brague touched on the indi­rect theological aspects of physics. 
"Physics has to do with knowing God," he said. "God's power and wisdom are essen­tial in understanding the order of the world." Brague believes nature because it is a means to understanding God. 
Physics is "a mediator between what we are and what we are supposed to be," Brague said. "The physical world is not only beautiful ... but virtuous." , "By doing physics we become aware of what we are," he added. "The study of nature, as its skin expands, is more and more rewarding ... as its 

Got News? Call us@ 

1-5323 



this leads to an interesting sit­uation with modern physics. 
"Negative theology opens doors to physics. Physics opens doors to positive theology," he said, adding that physics is useful for understanding technological applications grow and intensify ... Physics makes us." 
Brague spoke to faculty and 
students  at  the  Jaques  
Maritain  Center  in  the  
Hesburgh Library.  


Any students interested in starting a Notre Dame student club/organization should make plans to attend the Prospective Club Informational Meeting, scheduled for TONIGHT at 6:00 p.m. in the Montgomery Theatre. 
Information will be covered regarding the process prospective clubs go through in order to become recognized. 
For more information, contact Ryan Willerton in the Student Activities Office 
(phone: 631-7309) 
Tuesday, November 3, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 





Albright: Mideast deal working 
Glenn takes part in space sleep studies Associated Press gear; the job was complicated by all the floating wires. The outfit consists of a blue SPACE CENTEH. Houston head net with white elec­John Glenn is taking more trodes and a black body tighttime to get ready for bed in that looks like an old-fash­orbit than it's ever taken him ioned swimsuit. on Earth. His black and blue It's the second time the space jammies have 23 sen­apparatus has flown in space; sors· and take nearly an hour the first was during a medical to put on. researeh mission in April, · The 77-year-old is one of when four other astronauts two sleep subjects aboard tried it out. space shuttle Discovery. Glenn, the oldest person Researchers want to see how ever in space by 16 years, is his sleep compares with that the only one among the six of a much younger astronaut. test subjeets to skip the mela­For the first time in the tonin portion of tlw exp<~ri­flight, Glenn awoke Monday ment. For undisclosed med­from seven solid hours of ical reasons. he was barred sleep even though it was his two months ago frorn takingfirst night in the wired-up the hormone. Czeisler said pajamas. Until then, he was that would not spoil the test. getting by on 6 or 6 1/2 hours Czeisler wants to see how of sleep. astronauts sloep in weight­"It's easier to sleep with all lessness compared with how that on up here than it is on they sleep on Earth, and he's the ground," Glenn said. He especially interested in com­explained that was because paring Glenn's sleep with the electrodes were not dig­astronauts young enough to ging into his skin in weight· be his child1·en. His findings lessness. may help not only space trav­Dr. Charles Czeisler, a elers but senior citizens on Harvard Medical School Earth. researcher, said he was not. Fitful sleep is one or tho surprised by Glenn's skimpy shared traits of astronauts in sleep earlier in the mission. weightlessness and the elder­Most astronauts sleep poorly ly on Earth. in space for a variety of rea­It was a relatively quiet day sons, he said, including the for Glenn and his shuttle fact that the sun rises and crewmates. Halfway through sets'every 90 minutes. their mission, they enjoyed a worsening matters this few hours off and kept tracktirrte is the astronauts' shift~ of the Spartan satellite trail· ing sleep schedule; they get ing 35 miles bnhind and col­up earlier every morning so lecting hundreds of images of that by the time the nine-day the sun. mission ends this weekend Glenn said he spent his free they will have gone from the time standing on his head and equivalent of New York time setting loose little balls of to London time. water. Much of Glenn's bedtime "Remember when you were .. arid early morning this week a kid and you tried to stand I is spent getting in and out of on your head and drink water ·a sleep-monitoring outfit and gElt all swung around so equipped with electrodes that you were out of kilter with need to be stuck on his head your reference point? You do and chest to measure his that same thing up here very brain waves, breathing, eye ea.'>ily," he said. movement and chin-muscle Glenn also got a chance to tension. chat with his wife. Annie, for Monday night was the sec­the first time since arriving in ond of four wired-up sleep orbit last week. He told his <SEJsSiom; for Glenn and wife and their children and ~''Japanese astronaut Chiaki grandchildren that things M~ai. Even with the help of couldn't be going better, said ,,.·.· th~ir crewmates, it took near~ the senntor's spokesman, Iy an hour to attach· all the Jack Sparks.  
Looking for a Well Paying Campus job? The Observer Advertising Department is currently hiring for Advertising Account Executives. Great RESUME BUILDER for all majors. FUN AND EXCITING WORK, opportunity to make GREAT MONEY. Sophomores and Freshmen in Business school are strongly encouraged to apply, but the position is open to all job seekers at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's. Stop by our office in 024 South Dining Hall with a resume, or call 1-6900 and ask for Bryan.  

A~sociatcd Press 
WASIIINGTON 

Snen~tary of Statc Madeleine Albright gave assurances Monday that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin N1~tanyahu was eommittnd to moving for­
ward with the land-f'or-sncu­rity 1u:c:onl lw rc~adu~d last month with Palnstinian lcadcr Yasscr Araf'at. 
Albright 


said through Albright h c r spokcsman, .Jamcs Bubin, that tcchnical. legal and political issues would notupsct the "time­linn" of tlw Wyc agrccment. 
Hubin also said U.S. mcdiator Dnnnis Boss and his dnputy, Aaron Millcr, would lnavc on Tucsday or latnr in tlw wm~k "to havc a rnvolving pn~sencc" in tlw rngion. 
Evnn thrPaL'i against Arafat by tlw radil:al Islamic group llamas will not delay implenwntation of thc agrPcmcnt, Bubin said. 
Tlw threats followed a Palnslinian poliec roundup of 
some I00 Ilamas activists and the house arrest of Sheik Ahmed Yassin, f(JUnder of Hamas. 
"Secretary Albright had a dis­cussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu about the political­legal proenss the Israelis need to go through, including a vote in the Cabinet and a vote in the Knesset," Hubin said. "And, as a rnsult of' those (tl~lephone) con­versations, we have no reason to think that the schedule laid out in the Wye memorandum need be dnlayed." 
While llamas threatened Al"afat. the leader of the pro­Iranian llozbollah called on Palestinians Sunday to kill Isnwlis to scuttle the U.S.-brokomd peace accord with Israel. 
Sheik llassan Nasrallah, secre­tary-gerwral of the llezbollah guerrilla group, also urged Palestinians to chop ofT the hand of their hmder. Arafat, for sign­ing the deal. 
"The agreement calls for ensuring security and peace f'or the Israelis," he told a rally in Beirut's southern suburbs. "This agmement should be destroyod." 
Hubin rnsponded to the threats by saying "the enemies of peace, the extremists, the killers of chil­dren and women and innocents will continue to fight the process of' peace that courageous leaders from the Palestinian side and the Israeli side are pursuing." 
The agreement was to take effect Monday, and Hubin said the Palestinian Authority had ful­filled a commitment to provide the United States with a plan to combat terrorism. 
The U.S. spokesman declined to provide any details. "Those are details that security people will work on, and there's no need to make it public," he said. 
But Hubin said Arafat, despite threats against him, "appears rnady, willing and able to follow through with his commitments, and we certainly applaud that courage." 
As part of the agreement, Israel is to withdraw from 13 percent ol' the West Bank over 12 weeks, with each phase accompanied by Palestinian security measures such as con­f'iseation of weapons. The agreement also calls for the Palestinian National Council and other Palestinian groups to meet next month in Gaza and annul provisiOns of the Palestine Liberation 
Organ!.zation 's charter that calls for dismantling Israel as a Jewish state. 
The White House on Monday released a transcript of an 

intcrview President Clinton gave Israel's TV Channel 2 last
• Located 0.2 miles from Notre Dame 
Friday in which he said it would be wrong to interpret his pres­ence in Gaza as a first step toward U.S. recognition of a
• Now leasing two bedroom apartments for 
Palestinian state. "I have tried strictly to adhere
the '98-'99 school year 
to the position of the United States that that we would not take any position on any final status issue," Clinton said. 
• Short term, flexible leases at affordable 
Clinton said the Gaza event 
was evidence of "a changing of the heart, an opening of the heart of the Palestinians toward Israel." 
rates 

Call us at 272-1441 or stop in at 1801/rish Way 


Anytime 
Anytime you call between you call between 
11:00-12:30
6:00 & 7:30, 
the price of your
the price of your 
2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzaspizza 
is the time you call.
is the time you call. 
* Plus tax* Plus tax 


ND store Saint Mary's/ 
271-1177 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 


271-PAPA 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted 







VIEWPOINT 
page 8 OB~ERVER ------------------Tuesday, November 3, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ...........•.•.......... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Hudat SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kath!een Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michad Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER ...............•..................... Dave Rogero 
Krisri KlirschWEB ADMINISTRATOR .•..................•.•.•.......••......••........ Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .......M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The Ob~rver is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNorre Dame du Lac and 
Sainr Mary's College. Ic dod; nor necessarily reflc=ct the policies of the administration of either institUlion. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Edi[Or and departmem editors. Commemaries,leuers and columns presem the views of the authors, and nm necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available [0 all 
members of the Norre Dame/Saint Mary's community and [0 all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions 
(hrough Jeerers is encouraged. 

Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Sam< Mary"s 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint.l@nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General1nformation 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 


• WE lEARNED MORE FROM ATHREE MINUTE RECORD, BABY 

...\1U\NKNfhf 
NI\ER\CA~ wuw A,<j~£V'Jffi.\ M'l 
~HN\llON 
OF \NITRN£1 
\<RA1\0N£;... 

Falling in Love With the Stars While Learning to See in the Dark 
My first night in Ovamboland the moon  away. The earth begins to cool and violet  
was full. It was a perfect, buttery sphere,  ribbons weave through the sky. (I think of  
the kind of moon that commands submis­ my little brother, just now tumbling out of  
sion.  bed to a bowl of Lucky Charms some­ 

 where on the other side of the globe.) The  
night sky is so bright. I think of Hopkins'  
MARY  question, "What is all this juice and all this joy?"  
MARGARET  I fall back into the starry embrace of this jazz-tuned night.  
"Darkest Africa," the colonizers named  
NUSSBAUM  this place, "the Dark Continent." They painted their propaganda with broad  
strokes-images of bare-breasted hea­ 
thens and cannibalistic warriors with  
lusty appetites for fair, white maidens. A  
"Under my glow," the night air whistled,  backward place, where history didn't  
"you must either fall in love or become a  begin until Europeans took note. More  
werewolf." I chose the former.  recently, a place where the seething pro­ 
And what are the physics of fairy tales?  letariat masses of "boys" were told to  
After the spell is cast, you fall in love with  complacently endure their life sentences  
the first thing that your eyes behold. On  of sub-humanity. "Darkness," they tell us,  
that night, about an hour south of the  "covers the continent of Africa like a  
Angolan border, seeing the inky silhou­ widow's veil." They lied. This place is deli­ 
ettes of the village where I would be living  ciously dark. It is dark like a glass of deep,  
for the next two weeks, I looked up to the  red wine, or a thick slice of chocolate  
glittering dust of countless, ancient stars. 1  mousse cake. It is dark with the possibili­ 
looked up to this fiery feast and I fell­ ties of turning tears into dancing.  
hard.  It seems silly and strange that we've  
Ours was to be a torrential courtship.  built the entire "developed" world around  
Days would find me resenting fried, fin­ the denial of that final common denomi­ 
ger-fed porridge, missing milkshakes and  nator: to every day darkness falls. This  
endless produce sections and the glossy  planet is tilting, and swiftly.  
pages of The New Yorker. Days would  We suspend nature's rare ambience  
find me clinging to shadows; seeking out  with dim lights and thermostats. We wake  
shade. With the noon sun high in the  with alarms, not the sun or the aggravat­ 
cloudless sky, I'd begin to wilt like so  ing rooster's crow. We arm timid children  
many street corner roses. On especially  with night lights to keep the beasts under  
bright days, I'd tramp across the pancake  the bed from growling. We grow drunk  
landscape, leaving my hut and the crying  from our own hubris. In our brave, new  
goats and my exquisite, dusty little sisters  world it seems we have dominion over  
behind. I'd trek for an hour to a little bar  everything, even the passing of time.  
in the village center where 'cool drink'  Time's passing. Two summers ago I  
!lows (next to the search for God, Coca­ worked as a nanny for two elementary  
Cola is universal) and an electric fan  aged girls. Like me, they were products of  
spins. We sweaty Americans were drawn  our impatient culture where images zap  
to the place like flies to honey.  past us, every emotion has an accompa­ 
But, oh, these days, they fly.  nying soundtrack and our legends can be  
Thr-sun begins to slide towards that  fast-forwarded through.  
seam where the sky meets the land. It  We had a ritual, though.  
blares out ­a tangerine fireball now ­ After trips to the pool, we would unload  
from between a row of palms and slips  our soggy bodies on to the hot cement and  
• DOONESBURY  

50 YOU sa;,UHCWl; ITS et:eiV a£.A!?a?lJ.IROUGH 7H& PR08A7l3 caJRT,AN/? A£/C/3 ti!IU 8e GeTTING 
aose 7D $"2 MILL-ION­
HOW ITRIGHT Tllt31<£.! YaJ'!<& TUL-!NGM/3 9JM&ON&u:FT 
7HI5BROA/? 
!!2MilUON 
FORR&AJ,"! 

watch the clouds roll by. We watched thr­sky. We told the tales of the creatures tucked into those cauliflower curves. We began to see a little. 
I think that would be almost enough: to have the "eyes of my eyes" opened, to know the light and the dark and the fleet nature of this thing-time. 
Time's passing. And where do we live anyway? 
Before the invention of seconds, the shortest time lapses were counted in puls­es. This seems more accurate. When my heart is racing, time is too. When that spell is cast and we behold in wonder this thing-the supertlovas, the great smear of whipped cream we call the milky way, the laughter of the beautiful ones we love :::__what about then? When your heart stops -gives a little nod to the holy? These moments, they say, moments of ecstasy, when the distance between lovr-r and beloved is fmally bridged, these arc the closest we can get to all that is Divine. 
Now my Meme (my Ovambo host moth­er) is laughing at me as I stand, mouth agape, staring at the stars, her everyday ceiling. What an odd American daughter she ha~. My friend Nichole sleeps over one night and we insist on dragging our sleep­ing bags out of my hut and into the soft dirt. Tonight, we declare, we are stargaz­ers. We are summoning the spirits of all wandering Zoroastrians and perhaps Galileo will stop by for tea. My Ovambo family gathers around us, alternately gig­gling and issuing stern warnings about the snakes that prey on dim-witted for­eigners. 
"She must be a burrito short of a combi­nation plate," I'm sure they're clucking as I snuggle merrily into the ground, com­mon as the goats out back. They look at us as, no doubt, I would look at them if they camped out on my kitchen table to watch the ceiling fan whirr. 
I try to explain that where I'm from we have so lit everything that there are per­manent clouds. Stars glow dimly. But now that world is far away. For as the fire-folk gather in the sky, my Ovambo family kin­dles a cooking fire on this land. There arc 
GARRY TRUDEAU 
no switches, no plugs ... we can only sub­mit to the encompassing darkness, this blue-black blanket and the nighttime fears that creep up on you. We must say that we are small and, indeed, quite lost. We fumble with the only languages suffi­cient for darkness; the utterings of dreams and prayers and human touch. These utterings, I think, are almost enough. Almost. 
So what happens to us, as a people. when we stop watching the heavens? What happens when we don't know literal darkness, but its presence as metaphor is scrawled everywhere? What happens when we so carve our days into a million, million seconds that we can no longer hear the beating of our own heart (let alone another's)? 
I do not know. 
I am on an experiential binge-bar­raged and bloated from this feast of living. I can't digest a single thought. Right now, I am just trying to see. This glass of water. My dry elbows. The one million solar sys­tems being born overhead as the galaxy yawns out into ... what? (You blink, a star appears.) 
Right now I am content with the ques­tions, trusting that someday, when I turn ofl' these fluorescent lights, the answers will come. A friend from horne endnd her letter writing, "sleep outside this fall and keep it real." It's summer here, but the advice still stands. I'm trying. 
I'm trying, as Annie Dillard writns, to begin to see, and "describe what's going on here," so that I can, "at least wail the right question into the swaddling band of darkness, or, if it comes to that, choir the proper praise." 
Mia Nussbaum is a sophomore Arts and Letters major from lloward !fall. She is studying in Namibia first semester through the Center for Global Hducalion. She may be reached at cgesl@iafrica. com. na 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'It is not the critic who 
counts. It's not the man 
who points out where the 
grown man stumbles, or how 
the doer of deeds could have 
done them better The credit 
belongs to the man who is 
actually in the arena ... ' 
-Theodore Roosevelt 

. 
VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, November 2, 1998 ------------------os~ERVER ---------------------------------------------page9 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The Era of the Drive-Thru Pep Rally 


Who rnnwmbnrs wlwn pep rallies used to be packml full'! When I look back to my first two ynars of coll1~ge, I rmnember every pep rally with peopln standing in the aisles, and craning their rwcks in llw centnrs of the bleachers in hopns of catching a glimpse of the football team. coaehes and hand. During tlmsn years, and last snason as well. Notre Dame had nxcellent speakers to rally the crowd llw Friday night preceding each game. Students had to be let in at 6pm through a special door so that they had lirst dibs on seeing their t1~arn; now thn only studnnts who arrivn early (or 1wm1 at all in many casns) are the host dorms. 
After tlw Stanford pep rally. I was shocked to look at my watch and see that it was only ten minutes after s1w1~n. I knew that the rallins had been lotting out much ear·linr than usual, but this was ridiculous. What happnnnd to the chnering lasting until 7:30 or 7:45? The only thing that takes a substantial amount of time these days is the tmtm walking down the stnps as they have done in the last two pnp rallins. Wn havn no sp1mkers exc1)pt for two tf1am members. Then Bob Davin says the same sorry speech each rally, eonvenil)nlly leaving out our crushing loss to MSU when tallying the snason thus far. We have n~ached the era of the drive-thru pep rally. Bdore I graduate, I would like to hear an exciting speaker at a p1~p rally. I want to hear from Phil Donahue, Diek Vitale, Scott O'Grady, the Saved by the Bell guy, llegis Philbin and Chris Zorich. Where is the family of cute kids that would sing and dance a little? Why don't students act out beating up the mascot of the other team? Why don't the assistant coaches talk any more (Jim Colletto excluded, please)'? This is the 10 year anniversary of our last national championship, why don't we have someone form the '88 team speak to us'? This is all another indication that Bob Davie docs not understand or abide by Notre Dame tradition. Consequently, the stands are empty. 
Also, in the spirit of complaining about our football program, I would like to please ask Bob Davie not to stand directly in the middle of the field to be interviewed, obstructing NO's incredi­ble band (the only part of our football program that has not been tarnished in recent months) from playing. 
Finally, I think that it is fair to point out the improved aspects of our football culture, It is ter­rific to see Saint Mary's College as a pep rally host. and as a part of the roll call. This has not • gone unappreciated, and·l feel proud to be involved in such a fine tradition between these two excellent schools. 
Gwyneth Murray-Nolan Senior, Holy Cross Hall Ocrober 29, 1998 
Olivia Gans Using Inaccurate Statistics in Abortion Debate 
As someone who teaches courses in demography and the other three were women who had never and statistics. I am dePply bothered when advo­had an abortion. cates of any position present highly misleading or As for Gans' claim that as many as 73 percent of dearly inaccurate statistical information to support those who have had abortions attempt to commit lhnir cause. The rncent speech by Olivia Gans, suicide -there arc an estimated 1.7 million abor­director of American Victims of Abortion, falls into tions in the United States every year. Hence, if this catngory. Gans' own abortion dearly had a Gans is correct, the bad news is that about 1.2 mil­traumatic efl'ect on her, but the sweeping claims lion women every year are going to attempt sui­shn makns about tlw ell'ect of abortion on cide. The "good" news is that they are other women cannot bn supported. ~_.,=-----apparently going to do a terrible job 
As noted in the October 28 Observer, "IGansl revealed that SO p1~rc1-mt of women who have abortions sum~r from Post Abortion Syndronw and as many as 73 percent who have had abortions altmnpt to commit sui­dele." Numerous studies sug­gest that tlwsn ligures an~ greatly nxaggnrated. Forrn11r Surgeon General r.. Everett Coop, an abortion opponent, was asked by President Beagan to study the health e!Teets of induced abortions. 
of it, since only about 6,000 women a year arc suicide victims. Gans' figures are clearly not rea­sonable. For those who believe that abortion is the killing of unborn life, the fact that there are almost 2 million abortions every year is reason enough for opposing it. While some women do suffer in the ways that Gans describes, her use / of dubious statistics / undermines her credi­bility and is a disservice to those pro-life activists who 
lie subsnquenlly told Congress that --:--..c:::::~~~~~~ have taken a far more responsible 
thn development of psychological problems relatnd to abortion was "miniscule from a public health perspective." Similarly, a panel of the Amnrkan Psychological Association unanimously condudnd that legal abortion "docs not create psy­chological hazards for most women undergoing the procedure." 
On its Web page, National Right to Life disputes these argumenl'i and present'> opposing studies. Still. it takes a far more moderate stand than does Gans, contending that, "What is still unknown is how widespread psychological problems are among women who have had abortions." Further, the very measurement of Post Abortion Syndrome (PAS) is highly suspect. When volunteers from the Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance went over the checklist of symptoms for PAS, all four found they were suiTering from it. One was a male, approach to the facts. 
Those wishing to see intelligent discussions of both sides of the abortion issue can turn to such sources as National Hight to Life (http://www.nrlc.org/), Feminists for Life (http://www .serve.com/fem4lifel), the National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League (http://www.naral.org/), Planned Parenthood (http://plannedparenthood.org/), and the Ontario Consultants on Religious Tolerance (http://www.religioustolerance.oryabortion.htm). While each has its biases, each seems to show greater care with the facts than Ms. Gans does. 
Richard Williams Associate Professor Department of Sociology November 2, 1998 
• PROGRESSIVE STUDENT ALLIANCE 
Sexual Discrimination, Though Subtle, Still Harmful to our Society 
There has not been a Catholic president in over 25 years. Whether this stems from the lack of Catholics 
· running for oflice, or the lack of support from non­Catholics, there seems to be some sort of deficiency in the ability for Catholics to be taken seriously in the politi­cal examples and issues of silently felt discrimination. Why, for example, do only the women's dorms have security night guards? Why is it such an insult for one male to call another a "girl'"? Why have we never had a female student body pl'esi­dent? 
Though 

arena, a Being woman's Catholic contribu· 
myself, I tlon to know society that, as a has come collec­a long 
Beth 
Marino
tive.and way over individu­
---.....:========----time,
allywe -unfound­have ideas and talents that ed, tradition-based stereo­could benefit the entire spec­types remain apparent. This trum of society. Being is especially seen in the silly catholic says little about notion that a woman's worth intelligence as a whole, or is somehow tied into her 
out the capabilities of appearance. A glaring exam· a successful term in pie of this ls the coneept of a 
, yet clearly, as beauty pageant. While there Catholics make up just under may now be an interviewing 50 percent of the population. process to attempt to judge some sort character of bias is as well occurring. physical 
This is not EXUAL DISCRIMINATION beauty. the 
merely a term 'beau­
S SO IMBEDDED IN
s:

situation ty pageant due to OUR CULTURE, OUR LAN· or contest' chance. assumes
GUAGE AND OUR UVES THAT
Being that women Catholic IT IS DlfllCULT TO NOTICE, will be doesn't judged on
AND EVEN THE VICTIM HER-
make one whether or more Intel· SELF MIGHT BE BUNDED TO n.ot they are 
ligent, or 
JT. 

more qual­ified. It is, admittedly, in accordanee with tradition to have a non· Catholic serving in office, as none of the founding fathers were Catholic, but that hard­ly excuses the lack of Catholic representation and exclusion that continues now that Catholics are a part of the community. It bothers me to see such little impor­tanee placed on Catholic r.orlP.P.J•nA. and such apathy UI\11/H.rrH' the lack of public ............,••.._ figures. I hope that, in the future, Catholic fig­ures will not be labeled sim· ply by the fact that they are "Catholic," but that they will be recognized for their 
strengths and capabilities as well. 
go back to that last and replace the 
w"''"~'"" and "UJnmon·· .for every time the word "Catholic" or "Catholics" appears, and 
··consider the situation here at Notre Dame, Obviously the political situ­ation here at Notre Dame 
some indication that al discrimination, no how unintentional, is ""'~"""L This is not a,n l'''? ,.,.• .,,..,,Q of attack, blaming the population. It is merely LH1,.,...11ft.>n in an attempt to awareness of everyday 
aesthetical­
ly pleasing. 
This may· seem hnrmless, until so much emphasis is placed on a woman's appearance that eating disorders occur. This issue is exemplified everyday here at school in the woman's dorms. Why do so many women feel this extreme pressure to be phys­ically perfect'~ · Sexual diserimination Is so imbedded in our culture. our language and our lives that it is diffkult to notice, and even the victim herself might be blinded to it. That does not make it Jess harmful. There is a need for aware­ness and acknowledgement of these issues before progress can be made. Ultimately, what is desired, is an environment in which all people, men and women may flourish, by abandoning the stereotypes that, to a certain extent, limit a woman's acceptance here, today. 
Beth Marino is a !>Oplw· more in the College ofArts and Letters. The Progressive Student Alliance runs a col· umn every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofthe PSA or The Observer. 

For off-campus students or anyone looking for a little home-cooking) Scene provides some easy recipes to take the monotony out ofmeal time. 
Chicken Enchiladas 
2 servings, prep time:2S min., cooking time: IS min. 
1 small onion, minced 2 tablespoons each: vegetable oil, all-purpose flour 2 cups shredded lettuce 114 cup each: minced fresh parsley, water 1 tablespoon minced fresh cilantro (coriander), salt, 
hot pepper sauce to taste 1 medium onion, chopped 1 clove garlic, minced 1112 cups cooked, shredded, dark and white meat 
chicken 2 canned green chilies, chopped 4 large corn tortillas Vegetable oil Sour cream Tomato wedges, chopped green onions, for garnish 
1. 
Put minced onion and 1 tablespoon of the oil into 1-quart microwaue-saje bowl. Microtvaue on high ( 1 oo percent power) until onion is soft. Stir in flour; microwaue on high jar 1 minute Stir in let­tuce, parsley and water; microwaue on high jar 6 minutes. Puree in blender or food processor; add an additional 1 to 2 tablespoons of water if necessary for a medium-thick sauce. Add cilantro, salt and hot pepper sauce. 

2. 
Put chopped onion. garlic anci remaining 1 tablespoon oil into 2­quclft microwaue-saje bowl. Microwaue on high until soft. about 2 min­utes. Stir in chicken, chilies and half of the green sauce; add salt to taste. 

3. 
Brush each tortilla lightly with oil. Put tortillas into 8-inch round microwaue-saje baking dish. Microwaue. couered. on high until warm and soft. about 1 minute. 

4. 
Spoon one-quarter of the chicken mixture down center of each tor­tilla. Roll up, arrange on microwaue-saje platter or sewing dish. Top with rernaining green sauce. Put a dollop of sour cream in center of each tortilla. Microwaue on high until hot, 2 to 4 minutes. Serue gar­nished with tomatoes and green onions. 


Recipe courtesy of The Chicago Tribune Cookbook 
Basic Omelet 

c s 

OTHE

pagelO----------------------------------------------------------------------Tuesday, November 3, 1998
BSERVER 
Put a little spice in 
Herbed Chicken Pasta 
Serves 3 to 4, prep time: IS minutes, cooking time: Io min­utes 1 teaspoon vegetable oil 1 I12 cup sliced mushrooms 112 cup chopped onion 1 garlic clove, minced 1 lb. skinned, boneless chicken breasts, cut into 1 incll­
pieces 112 teaspoon salt 112 teaspoon dried basil 114 teaspoon pepper 
2 cups coarsely chopped tomatoes 
4 cups hot cooked fettuccine (about 8 oz. uncooked) 114 cup grated parmesan cheese 
I. /-feat oil in a large, non-stick skillet ouer medium-IJi(]IJ heat. 
2. 
Add mushrooms, onion and garlic: saut(; 2 minutes. Add chicken, suit. /Jusil and pepper: saute 2 minutes. 

3. 
Add chicken, salt, basil and pepper: saute' 5 minutes or until chicken is done. 

4. 
Add tomato; saute 2 minutes. 

5. 
Sewe ouer pasta; sprinkle with cheese. 


I omelet, prep time: s minutes, cooking time: s minutes 
2 or 3 large eggs, at room temperature 
1 tablespoon each: butter, water 
. 
Optional: chopped 

1. 
Warm eggs to room temperature. Cold eggs hitting a hot pan will produce a tough omelet. Do not salt the raw eggs; that will toughen them, too. Salt may be added with the filling or at the table. 

2. 
111e pan should be hot, bur nor too hot: turn the burner up high. When pan is l1ot. add butter. II should melt and foam. but not brown or burn. 1j it does, toss it, wipe the pan, and start ouer. When the butter stops foaming the pan is ready jar the eggs. 

3. 
Add water to the eggs. Mix with fork just enough to mix eggs and the water. 


fresh herbs, or 113 cup Don't ouermix. Add optional herbs. 
of any desired filling 4. Quickly add eggs to the pan and stir gently as if making scramlJ/ed eogs. Then cook, without stirring, just until
Salt, freshly ground 

sliqhtly less than desired doneness. Top pepper to taste with additional filling, if desired. 
5. To roll the omelet out of the pan. tip the pan so the omelet rolls onto itself tvhen you lift the top egde with a spatula. 
G. Reuerse your grip on the pan's handle so that you're holdinq it from underneath; tilt the pan unril nearly uertical and continue rolling the omelet onto the sewing plate. Serue immediately. 
Recipe courtesy of The Chicago Tribune Cookbook 



li1esday. November J, 1998 -------------------OTHE page II
BSERVER 


our li 
All-American Apple Pie 
one ~>-incll pic. G to 8 servings, prep time: 45 min. standing tinw: 1 l1our. l><lking time: 1 t1our. chilling time: I t1our I 'IL CHUST 2 112 cups ul/-purposcjlour 
112 t('( /S/)OOll SU/1 
112 cup eucl1: cold. unsuited butter. t'egeto/)le shortening 114 t(·uspoot 1 ~Jruteci orunge rind 2 tu :~ tuiJiespoons eucl1: uer~J cold oranoe juice. ice water Cl U 1/VIB TOJ>J>INCJ 113 cup cucl1: ul/-purposc }Jour. packed clark brown sugar 114 t('uspoon oround cinnamon 1>usl 1 <'Ucl 1: suit. oround ginger 2 tul>/('spoons cold. un.sulteci butter 
I~ILLINCI 
7 to H nwdiwn GratHl!J Smit/1 apples 1 to 1 112 to/ Jlc.spoons o//-purpose flour :U4 cup orunulurccJ suour 112 teu.spoon eucl1: oround cinnmnon. orange rind, uanilla 
c·xtmct 1/H teuspoon oround nutmeg I )US} I SUit 112 cup IlotW!J 1 112 tul>lespoons unsalted butter 1 C'fHJ. I>Cuten 
1. 1:ur pic· crusl. si.Jt .Jlour unrl suit into lur(}t' l>ml'i. Clll into l>urrer und s/JOrten­11111 until rnixruw f<'SC'IIll >I<'S course· cnunl>s. ;\rid orwl<JC rinc1. Sprinklt' in juice ut.ltl l<'Uf('r. 1 tul>i<'spoon ut <I time·. mixino wit/1 fork until flour is moistened and soft dr Hu1/1 f( >n ns. SlJCiflC' into /Ju/1. Hc/i"iul'mtc• COl'f'tnl. I hour. 
:.! . 1:m en 1111/ > rc >J!pitll1. 111ix flour. Im JU 'II sc 1~ }Ur. cinnumon. suit und ginger. \l'urk itl I>WtC'r witII fit u Jl'rs Ulllillllixtuw is crwnl>i!J. 
.l. 1:ur filliiiCJ. pc·c·J. core· unci n11 uppiC's into 112-inc/1 slices. Pur slices in Joroe l>t>cl'i: russ ((lit/ I 1 to 1 112 tulilc·.spc>on.s.f1our. 1\clcl.suour. cillnomon. on111~W rinct. t 1c uullu c·xrrc wt. 1 H 1111 w11 unci suit. Stir in lun wy: let .stond I I1our. 
4. 1/C'ut (I(IC'Il ro 4:>ci deiiW<'S. l{u/1/wl( o( doti(J/J into o circle: fit in mc•tu/, D-inc/1 pic· pc 111. Tri111 cc/1 1<'. 1 >ruin liquid frc >Ill upp/c•s; n·scrtl('. Set 1/4 cup of tlw cruml> roppil H 1 usidc·. Luuc .,-upp/c·s witt 1 wmuinino cruml>.s in douu/1-/incd pun. Dot upp/c·s cPitII t 11:2 tul 1/c ·spoons I11 mc·r. SprinkC'/ {(lit/1 :> to/>lc.spoons rc.sewc opplc lirJtricl. 
. > 1 <oil 1>W /C'IliUillill!1 douol1: cut wit/ 1 kni(e ort1utcd po.stry ((l/JCd into 1 12-inc/1­cllidc · .strips.\\'<'Ill'!' .strips into lurticc 01 1er ti·uit. Scot .strips ut cdoc of pun rnoisten­inr1 ((litll upp/C' liquid Flute C'r/~w. Sprinkle' rC'.SC'fllCd crwn!J.s in holes q{ Jotticc. H,:us/1 c>nltJ crust c·ctu(' ond strips wit/JI>c'uten e~m. 
ci. Helke• onfr>il-lill('(I/Jukinll .s/Jc·c·r or 4:>0 dcwccs.:; minutes. Hcduce ouen tem­pc·rcuuw ru :l:.u dc·un·c·s: link(' until upp/es uw tC'ndcr. :;o to:;:; more minutes (or on/IJ 4u 111i1 H w·.s if !JUl 1lik<' en lllclJicr opp/c·s;. Coo/ Oil ruck to room temperature. 
,<-;( '1'(1(' ( l'it/1 I l( 1/JiJJCI icC CfC'CI/11 or tl'lJippC'd CTC 'Uill/701 l()f('(/ ((li//l l 1Clni/JC1 SUf)Or W lr/ uru11cII' liqc wr. . . . 
Hecipc court<'S!J of Tl w Clltcuoo TnlJunc Cook/)()()k 
Snickerdoodles 
prep time: 25 minutes. baking time: 1o minutes per batch 
IIC'ut ( >uc·n to :-l?.S dcorees 112 n 11 > I)Uflcr or rnuroerine I Cllj)SIIf}Uf 114 t<·uspoon IJukino sodu 114 rc·u.spoon crcwn (~r t<lfler 
I <'~HJ 
112 teuspoon uunilla 1 112 cups u/1-purposc .f1our 2 tul>lespoons .suour 1 teuspoon qround cinnwnon 
t . 111 u 111c ·clilllll 1nixin1 1 I x >WI Iwot t/IC' I>lllt('r or IIIOfOc'rilll' wit/1 w 1 C'lectric mixer{(>r 30 .sc ·cuncls. ;\!/!/ t/IC' I cHJ> su~ JUr. IxIkill!] soc lu. unci cwwn of turter. Bcot till coml>inccl. sc n 11 >i11c 1sic /C's 1>I I>< >t t 1/. I ~c 'I 11 i11 tile· c'!1!1 c111c I 111 111illo till n >IllI>incd. Bcut in us much uJ t/IC' f/uur os uou cu11 witiJ tliC' 1nix<'r. Stir ill n 'lll<lillill!J.Jiour. Coucr ond cllill I I101 cr. 
2. c:c >111/ >inc· r/1c • :2 11 11 >lc ·s1 1111 111s sc I!Jur c1111 I cituJc unon. Sl }( 11 w clouo/1 into 1-inch l>olls. l{u/1 /Ju/ls ill SUCJCII'·CillllcllllCJ/lllliXI!Ir<' tO COOl. I'ICICC' 2 illclWS U/)Clrt Oil Oil Utl~)H'USCd n x >ki1 · s/IC'C'I. liuk<' in u :~7:; dq}n'e ot 1<'1l.f( >r 1o to 1 1 millW< ~ or till cctoes ore oold­c'll. '/i'unst<·r coukic ·s to 11 wiw ruck unci I<'I coo/. Muke.s ul K>ut 3(i ccx>kies. 
I~<'cip<' courtesy Bett<'r 1/ornes and Gurdens New Cookbook 
Leat?t to Relax 
COURTESY ofthe UNIVERSI1Y COUNSELING CENTER 
Consider these scenarios: 1) You're about to make a phone call to ask some­one out .;...... and your roommate walks into the room. You suddenly feel so ner­vous that your hand shakes as you dial and your voke quivers as you say hello. 
2) You're about to take a test-the professor is handing out the test sheet­and you feel your heart race and your palms sweat. 3) You're angry with a friend, but you believe your only choices are to blow it oil' or blow up. Your stomach gets tense and you feel slightly nauseous. 
Each of these examples of stress-producing situations create feelings of anxi· ety. Anxiety includes both a cognitive component, such as worrying about being heard while on the phone, and a physiological compontmt. such as tht~ resulting increased muscular tension in your hand and in your larynx. Last month our Counseling Center column described how to improve your academic perfor­mance through techniques such as concentration controL But what if you apply these techniques and you still have butterflies in your stomach? Sweaty palms? Tension in your shoulders? These symptoms indicate that your body is going through its paces of the "fight or flight response," a physiological response root­ed in our early beginnings of human survival. 
The fight or flight response involves an exquisitely orchestrated set of bio­chemical changes thatready the body to respond to any perceived threat. The brain sets ofl' an alarm which turns on the sympathetic nervous system, causing your adrenal glands to secrete a flood of stress hormones. A chain reaction ensues. Your muscles tense, your pupils dilate. your sense of hearing andsmell become acute, your diaphragm locks, your breathing and heart rate speed ttp, your blood clots more quickly, your perspiration increases, your lower priority functions shut down and your blood flow is redirected away from your extremi· ties into the larger muscles. 
Our early ancestors' survival depended on physical solutions to danger. Social customs today, however, tend to prevent us from fighting or fleeing and our stressors are usually more chronic. When our bodies remain in an active state we are more susceptible to the long-term negative effects of chronic stress. As we overproduce stress hormones we chronically shut down healthy functions such as digestion, growth, tissue repair and responses of the immune and inflammatory systems. The typical person usually goes through the fight or flight response from 100 to 250 times per day. It's no wonder that chronic stress con­tributes to our susceptibility to a wide variety of diseases and illnesses, such as the common cold, hypertension, migraines, osteoporosis, ulcers. heart disease, diabetes, and even depression. 
So how do you cope with and counteract the effects of chronic stress'! That depends on the nature of your particular stressors, the way in which you unin­tentionally increase your own stress, how you cognitively appraise stress-pro­ducing situations, and how your body uniquely reacts to stress. Stress-reduction techniques are as wide-ranging as improving your nutrition, exercise and sleep habits, learning time management. improving your communication skills, ltmrn­ing how to balance recreation and productivity, learning to cognitively appraise situations in ways that enhance problem solving, decreasing or eliminating your reliance on alcohol or drug use. and getting social support. You may schedule to meet with one of our counselors who can help you to analyze your own unique situation and recommend how you can improve your stress management. 
In addition, thereis one technique that can beneOtjust nbout anyone. You can counteract the fight or flight response by harnessing your body's natural ability to come back to a balanced state of calm by activating your parasympathetic nervous system. This can be done through inducing the Relaxation Response . 
Herbert Benson, M.D., the director of the Mind-Body Medical Institute at Harvard, has researched the interaction of the mind and body for 25 years. His studies have found that the Relaxation Response creates physiological changes such as decreased metabolism, heart rate and breathing rate. in addition to dis­tinctively slower brain waves. These changes are associated with feelings of calmness.and a decrease in anxiety. Interestingly, his research found that peo­ple tend to experience an increased sense of spirituality regardless of whether or not they used a rep$titive religious focus, and spirituality was also associated with fewer medical symptoms. This has led him to draw from many religious traditions of the world to continue his research on the healing effect<; of spiritu· ality. 
The instructions for inducing the Relaxation Response are very simple. You'll receive the full benefits if you practice for 20 minutes per day or at least several times per week.. 0; 
Find a Quiet Spot:'' choose a quiet room, outdoor setting where you can be alone and free from distractions. Assume a Comfortable Position~ you may sit straight in a chair or cross-legged on the floor. Its bestnot to lie down because you may fall asleep. 
Chopse a Point.ofFpcus: select a word or sound that elicits a sense of tranquil­lity, such as calm. p¢aee, or relax; The purpose of this mental device is to break the chairi of distracting thoughts and direct your focus internalJy. Close your eyes, relax your mlJ8cle, and breathe normally. Repeat your word or sound silently as you exhale. 
Develop a Passive Attitude: when distracting thoughts come, allow them to float away while yop. return to your point offocus. 
Thisis only one tf}chnique you can use to induce relaxation. Others include learning more structured relaxation exercises, guided imagery and autogenic training. Two of our psychologists from the University Counseling Center will teach a three session Relaxation Training class at the new Rolfs Recreation Center on Fridays from 4· 5 p.m., beginning Nov. 6. If you are interested, the class costs $10,00and. you can stQp by the RecSports Center to register. You can also check outthe Self~Help section of our web page at www.nd.edu/-ucc. There you'll rmd more tips on relaxation and stress management, as well as tech· niques for taking stretch breaks . 
The intent of this column is not to provide counseling but to provide informa· tionabdut a varietyof;tnental health topics. To seek help with your individual concerns, please contact the University Counseling Center at 631-7336 to sched­ule an appointment. · 
-
.... 
-.. 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Tuesday, November 3, 1998 
Irish 
continued from page 20 
dunk following a perfect pass from Dillon, Harold Swanagan, Paul Rainey, Skylard Owens and Todd Palmer. 
One concern MacLeod needs to address is the free-throw shooting. The Irish shot just 61 percent on the charity stripe. 
"The free-throw problem defiantly needs to be straight­ened out. You can't win ball games shooting like that," MacLeod said. 
One World was lead by Eddie 
• NCAA BASKETBAll 

Rivera, who scored 25 points with four rebounds and four assists. 
Seventeen-year-old Antonis Fosis also gave the Irish trouble at the three-spot with 15 points and seven rebounds. 
One World head coach Tone Crump: "Fotsis is going to become a great player. He is only just developing his skills." 
Crump also commented on the Irish performance. 
"No. 3 [Murphy] is a very good shooter," he said. "No 24 [lngelsby] is a very tough play­er. If this game tonight helps Notre Dame in the future I will be happy. They are a good 
team." MacLeod knows his team has a lot of work to do. 
"We had some good spots and some ragged spots," he said. "Our conditioning is decent, not great, and we need to improve on that. We have a tough opener against Miami of Ohio [Nov. 13] and it will take a bet­ter performance than tonight to win." 
The development of Murphy, Graves and Swanagan along with the veteran leadership of Hickey, Wyche, lngelsby and Dillon will determine just ~ow good Notre Dame becomes in the 1998-99 season. 
Smith suspends three Wildcats 
Associated Press 
LEXINGTON, Ky. 
Three Kentucky players will sit out the Wildcats' first four games, including two regular­season games, under suspen­sions announced Monday by coach Tubby Smith. 
The suspension of forward Myron Anthony, guard Ryan Hogan and center Jamaal Magloire had been expected since June. when Smith said all three would be punished for misdeeds off the court. 
Smith waited until the day before the Wildcats' exhibition opener to announce the details. 
"I think they were relieved it wasn't worse," Smith said of the players' reaction when he gave them the news Monday. 
"I'm not surprised," said Hogan, who pleaded guilty to driving under the influence in May. "It's what I expected.... I

-
wanted to get it over with, move on and look forward to getting on with the season." 

All the games to be missed are at home: Tuesday against the California All-Stars, Nov. 11 against the Australian All-Stars, Nov. 17 against Eastern Kentucky and Nov. 19 against Mercer. 
The suspensions will be over before the Wildcats play in the Puerto Rico Shootout on Thansgiving weekend. They have December games against Kansas, Miami, Indiana, Maryland, Duke and Georgia Tech. 
Smith said Anthony will miss additional games because of academic problems and will not be allowed to travel to any first­semester road games that would cause him to miss class. 
Although Smith did not list the games Anthony will miss, they could include the Puerto Rico tournament and trips to Chicago, where the Wildcats play Kansas in the Great Eight, and Louisville, where Kentucky plays Indiana. 
In June, after learning 

Magloire had been in a car in Louisville with two men arrest­ed on drug possession charges, one for heroin possession, Smith said on local radio that the play­ers had damaged the image of the program, which won its sev­enth national title in March. 
In May, Hogan was been arrested on the drunken driving charge and Anthony came for­ward to admit driving teammate Wayne Turner's car during a September 1997 hit-and-run accident in Lexington. Anthony's admission came shortly after Turner himself took the blame for the accident in an effort to resolve the controversy, which had drawn national attention. 
"Coach made his decision," Anthony said Monday. ''I've got to take my medicine like a man." 
Anthony said he felt "a little bit of disappointment" at the suspension, but added, "I think that it's going to make me a bet­ter person and a stronger play­er." 
• WOMEN'S INTERHAll 
PE, Walsh set to meet in semifinal 
By NOAH AMSTADTER 
Sports Writer 

It was a cold dark evening on Sunday at Stepan Field, the first time this year that games were played in true "football weath­er." 
The games that took place were crucial, win or the season is over. Third-ranked Pasquerilla East stepped to this challenge, overcoming a tough Pangborn defense to win 7-6. 
The seventh-ranked Phoxes of Pangborn got on the board first, completing a first half pass to take a 6-0 lead. The remainder of the half was a tough defensive battle and the score remained 6­0 going into the half. In the sec­ond half, the Pyros' offense took charge. Anne Searle's effective­ness running the ball was key. 
Midway through the half. quarterback Elizabeth Plummer ran the ball into the end zone for the touchdown. 1n the pivotal play of the game, she completed the extra-point pass to Molly Rasp. The Pyro defense was able to hold Pangborn to preserve the 7-6 victory. 
Anna Davis led the Pasquerilla East defense as she came up with two interceptions. The team now moves on to play Walsh in the semi-final game of the women's interhall football tournament. 
"They're ranked ahead of us so we know its gonna be a chal­lenge," said team captain Allison Healy, "but we're taking it one game at a time." 
Walsh 13, Cavanaugh 0 

Second-ranked Walsh also earned their trip to the final four Sunday evening as they defeated the women of Cavanaugh 13-0 in a dominating performance both on offense and defense. 
An early interception by a Walsh defender changed the momentum in the game. This play led to Walsh's first scoring drive as quarterback Carolyn Parnell lead the team down the field before connecting with Kelly Perry on a 20-yard-out pattern for the game's first score. The team missed the extra point and took a 6-0 lead into halftime. 
To start the second half, Walsh forced Cavanaugh to turn the ball over, and this immedi­ately led to the team's second score. Parnell completed an impressive 20-yard pass over the middle to fellow captain Amy Krayer. This time she was able to complete the extra point, and the team took a 13-0 lead. The defense made this lead stand and 13-0 was the final score. 
"We played well, executing in all areas. We dominated on both ends of the ball, and the inter­ceptions were key," said Parnell. 
She is also eagerly anticipating Sunday's contest versus Pasquerilla East. 
"They're an excellent team. I've been here for four years and we've never had the chance to play them, so I'm excited," she said. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be
Classifieds prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW!  HOUSES FOR RENT  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  NO Ftbl. tix. BUY-SELL  Looking for a unique gift?  
NOTICES  Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,&  DOMUS PROPERTIES  Bed box set. not available in  674-7645  Bring in 12 of your favorite pic  
S.Padre.14 Free Meals+ 34 hrs.  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  lures and we'll create a custom  
Free Parties.America's best  614 S. ST JOE; 9 BED/4 BATH  ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal  color calendar.  
Early Spring Break  prices & packages. Campus  518 S. ST JOE; 8 BED/2 BATH  PHONECARDS!$20 BUYS  and Individual Game Tickets.  THE COPY SHOP  
Specials!Bahamas Party  sales reps wanted Earn free trips  532, 534 S. CARROLL; 7 BED  MINS.  GA-only 674-7645  Lafortune Student Center  
Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes  +cash  1016 S. BEND AVE; 7 BED  USA 282, CANADA 237,  
most meals! Awesome  1.800.SURFS.UP  820 S. BEND AVE; 5 BED  HONG KONG 100, IRELAND  NO Football Tickets Needed.  Gavin deBecker and  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  www.studentexpress.com  630 ST. PETER; 5 BED  155, FRANCE 135, GERMANY  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  "THE GIFT OF FEAR"  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  606 ST. PETER; 5 BED  135, MEXICO 94,PUERTO  
Air.Hotei,Meals &Parties  610 ST. PETER; 5 BED  RICO 237,UNITED KINGDOM  NO FOOTBALL TIX FOR SALE  allen-you are "da bomb." i hope  
$339!Panama City Room With  Driver Needed  1718 E. WASHINGTON;2 BED  315. For orders/ info, call  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  you are satisfied.  
Kitchen.? Free Parties  From ND to anywhere in  602 ND AVE; 5 BED  61 6-684-3339  love. the heather  
$129!Daytona Room With  Oregon/Washington after finals.  1082 WOODWARD; 2 BED  2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by  
Kitchen  Snow tires and 4-wheel drive.  ADDITIONAL HOMES AVAIL  Beautiful brass bed,queen  11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323  i could be in boston this week  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  $200 plus gas Insurance  ABLE; ADDRESSES GIVEN  size,with orthopedic mattress set  x47091v msg  end. but instead, i will be taking  
1-800-678-6386  required  UPON REQUEST  and deluxe frame.New,never  the gres.  
ILOST & FOUND I  Shawn at 271-8250  THESE HOMES ARE AVAIL  used,still in plastic.$225 219-862-2082  Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048  joy, bliss.  
ABLE FOR THE 1999-2000  
SCHOOL YEAR  93 Toyota Tercel, 4 spd,  Parents coming to town and I  my abs hurt.  
LOST:  SPRINGBREAK  60K mi, AC/Radio/Tape.  need 2 LSU Tix! Call Bill at 4­ 
Pair of black leather gloves  Florida,Texas,Cancun,Mexico,Ja  CALL KRAMER@ 674-2571;  273-8459 after 6pm.  4896.  hey diane-how's that project  
before break.  maica,etc.  233-4509;0R CELL 276-702  coming?:)  
Please help me  Browse www.icpt.com and call  1 BLK. So. of N.D.  PERSONAL  
find them my hands are  800-327 -6013.Best  1 ,2,3,4,5,6 BDRM HOMES.  ALL BRICK RANCH  did you hear me wheezing last  
freezing.  hotels,pprices and  NEAR CAMPUS. GILLIS PROP  728 PEASHWAY  night?  
If found please call  parties.Reps,organizations, and  ERTIES.272-6551  3 BED ROOMS-2 FULL BATHS  FAX IT FAST!!!  
Danny at 287-2557. Thanx  promoters wanted. Inter-Campus  2 FIREPLACES-2 CAR  Sending & Receiving at THE  marcus arelius, your new web  
WANTED  I  Programs  6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAM PUS. AVAIL. NOW & FALL 1999. 272-6306  GARAGE FINISHED BASE MENTPHONE 272-2252  COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center Our Fax# (219) 631-FAX1 FAX IT FAST!I!  page and email addresses are pure genius.  
SPRING BREAK '99!  I  FOR RENT  Roomate Needed,College Park,  TICKETS  Retired nurse will babysit.  really.  
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME  Second Semester  $3/hr. Own car, refs.289-0332.  and i am on a quest for pink fur  
Cancun'Nassau• Jamaica'Mazatl  FOR ND/SMC EVENTS.  Call243-1115  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  and guns.  
an• Acapulco'Bahamas  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS.  GAMES.272-6306  "Don't Get Burned on Spring_  
Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre  243-0658.  4,5,or 6 in your group? I have the  Break"  if YOU would like to see a really  
Travel Free and make lots of  houses for you-call Greg 233­ TICKETMART Inc  Spring Break Packages are  cool webpage, check out  
Cash!Top reps are offered full- THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and  9947  BUY-SELL-TRADE  going fast. Check out our Hot  www.higgins.net.  
time staff jobs. Lowest price  Breakfast Inn has space avail  Notre Dame Football Tickets  Jamaica Packages for the Class of  
Guaranteed. Call now for details!  able for football/parent wknds.  WALK TO CAMPUS  258-1111  '99!Stop in at Anthony Travel in the  shameless promotion.  
www.classtravel.com  5 Rooms with private baths,$80­ 2-5BEDROOM  No student tickets please  Lafortune Student Center and  
800/838-6411  $115,Middlebury,  232-2595  check out the best Spring Break  my birthday is in 17 DAYS!!I!!!I!  
30 miles from campus.  vacations around. Get your deposit  we are going to party.  
CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED  Toll Road,Exit #107  FOR SALE  in by Dec.18 and save.Don't take a  
EARN UP TO $11.00  1-800-418-9487  For Sale  FOOTBALL TICKETS  chance with an unknown agency or  If I missed anything exciting  
Part-time work around class.  271-9412  some 1-800 number.Limited space  tonight -I was watching the  
No telemarketing.  BED 'N BREAKFAST  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  available,so book now. Anthony  Godfather  
Car needed. Scholarships avail  REGISTRY­ 198 MIN.  WANTED  Travel, Inc., Lafortune Student  
able. call 2:30 until 5:30 mon  rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291­ $20  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  Center 631-7080  Watch out Carmen! The alien  
wed.282-2357.  7153.  CALL 258-4805  271-1526  blinked at me last night  


Tuesday, November 3, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 13 

• INTERHALL fOOTBALL 
Alumni, Sorin post playoff wins 
By BRIAN HOBBINS 
Spom Writer 
Men's interhall playoffs started with a bang this week­end as third-seeded Alumni Hall butted heads with their sixth-ranked neighhors in Dillon flail. 
The rivalry between the two 
South Quad powerhouses 
increased the intensity already 
present in playofl' action. 
Alumni startMJ things early 
by calling on the theatrics of 
quartnrback Alex Gese. 
Backed by a strong offensive 
line, Gese found freshman 
receiver Matt Antonginvanni 
multiple times to eovor 60 
yards. Having targt)lt)d 
i\ntongiavanni so often during 
tiHl drive, Gese fooled the 
Dillon deftmse, scoring on a 
quarterback sneak. 
"The offensive line was incredible and fullback Dave Shonck was blocking real well," Alumni's Mike Aubrey said. 
Alumni struck again late in the first half. On fourth and long at Dillon's 40-yard line with only seconds loft in the half. Dietrich found Gese strmtking past the Dillon cor­rt(Jr back f'or a touchdown pass. The PAT was good and Alumni led at the half 14-0. 
"The two big plays run against us hurt us early. The fomth and long play with a minute left in the first killed us," Dillon coaeh Omar Mu-oz said. 
Despite having the wind takMI out of their sails, Dillon eamo out lighting in the sec­ond half. 
"Alumni eouldn't move the ball on us," Mu-oz said. "We forred three turnovers." 
Following a bad snap and a rn ufl'ed punt. Dillon had exeel­lent field position. Mu-oz uti­lized .Jason Visner and Duran Alnxander to power the ball up Uw middle from the back tield. as well as receivers Hyan I>nng and Steve Nokie for passos to the outside. 
KPvin MeCarthy and Joe Parker worn clHaring big holes with dutch blocks, despite playing both ways in the trnnches. Finally, Dillon quar­tnrbaek Colin Conway scored on a quarterback sweep to put Dillon on the board; however, a failed conversion would put the score at 14·6. 
Despite finding favorable 
position as a result of these 
turnovers, on the Alumni 20 
and 34 respectively, Dillon 
failed to reap the fruits of their 
labors for a score. 
Dillon had one last chance to 
score afh~r Conway ran for 35 
yards to put the ball at the 
Dawg 12-yard line. Conway's 
pass on second down sailed 
through the hands of his tight 
end and as the ball fell to the 
turf so did Dillon Hall's chance 
for victory. 
"Our two problems were 
red-zone offense and our early 
mistakes," Mu-oz said. 
Alumni capitalized on these 
mistakes, closing the door on a 
14-6 vietory. 
While Dillon's season comes 
to a wrap, Alumni finds them· 
selves still alive and anticipat­
ing their semi-final matchup 
with Sorin llall. 
"They <\re the most well bal· 
anced team in intorhall," 
Aubrey said. 
Alumni's task becomes even 
more daunting when faced 
with the absence of five 
starters due to travel plans to 
Boston College. 
Sorin 3, Morrissey 0 
ln later action seventh-seed­ed Morrissey Hall looked to upset last year's runner up, Sorin Hall. 
In a gamo that featured little offensive spark, Morrissey hoped to use their overpower­ing size to tiro the smaller Otters. The first half found both teams moving the ball in between the twenties but tho final scoring punch proved elusive for both offenses. 
"We missed a couple of opportunities In tho first half." Morrissey's Steve Bartlett said. 
Sorin's Greg Beldon credited his defense l'or consistent play: "The defense never let up, they played really well the entire game." 
Efforts from Morrissey quar­terback Dan Sullivan and full­back Brian Tillet found Morrissey in the red zone sev­eral times during the game, but mistakes prevented Mot·t·issey from completing their drives. 
"We had a key penalty in the redzono on a personal fottl and a few other calls that didn't go our way," Bartlett said. 
Fortunately for Morrissey, 
Sorin's offense also had trou· 
ble finding their rhythm. 
"Our offense in the fit•st half 
was slow, but we had some 
drives in the second half," 
Beldon said. 
Dt}Spite renewed offensive 
spark in the second, the 
Morrissey defense N lead by 
Dan Prince and Eric Depke N 
prevented Sorin from finding 
the endzone. 
In n game that was back nnd 
fourth like a tennis match, 
Morrissey got their offense 
rolling again with key recep· 
tions from Scott Schaefers, 
This drive also fell short, how· 
ever, and found Morrissey hi 
the throws of a fourth and 
long situation on their own 
side of the half. 
A botched snap ruined Morrissey's hopes of punting the ball away and provided the anxious Otters with great field position. After the drive was stopped short by an angry Morrissey defense, the Otters called on place kicker Dave Russo to punch in a field goal. 
Beldon was concerned about the kick: "It was 20 yards out on a tough angle from the right hash." 
Russo maintained his cool 
under pressure to put Sorin up 
3-0, however. 
Morrissey drove late in the game. with Sullivan calling Bartlett, Tillet and Schaefers to start a drive. However, out­standing defense from the Sorin defensive line and fresh­man linebacker Dave Fiorini stood in their way. 
"Dave Fiorini had several clutch hits," Beldon said. 
Among them was a blast on Schaefers on a fourth-down conversion attempt that stopped Morrissey and led to Sorin closing the books on a 3· 0 victory. 
"The seventh seed was not indicative of their play," Beldon said. 
He also looks forward to meeting Alumni next weekend in the semifmals. 
''They will be our biggest test of the season, we have nevet· faced a passing attack like they have. But we plan to stick to the basics not change anything," he said. 
Mike Connolly contributed to this report. 

• USA HOCKEY 
Retired pros return to ice in world qualifiers 
Associated Press 
LONDON 
Mark Johnson and Neal Broten worked magic 18 years ago for the United States, con­juring up the "miracle on ice" at the Lake Placid Olympics. 
They're back together again in a U.S. uniform, this time on a mission to save the Americans from the scrap heap of international hockey. 
With NHL players unavail­able, three retired old-timers -Johnson, 41, Broten, 38, and future NHL Hall of Farner Joe Mullen, 41 -lead the Americans as they open a three-game World Championship qualifying series Thursday at Klagenfurt, Austria. 
Relying on Europe-based players, the Americans face favorite Kazakhstan, Estonia and Austria. The top two quali­fy for the 16-team World Championship in May in Norway. In nearby Ljubljana, Slovenia, Germany, Ukraine, France and Slovenia face ofT in another group. 
The four non-qualifiers fall into Group B of world hockey with also-rans like Hungary and Denmark. The Americans were last in that secondary division in 1983. 
This tournament doesn't jeopardize American participa­tion in the 2002 Olympics in Salt Lake City. The U.S. team qualifies automatically as host. 
But it has psychological and even moral overtones. 
It's been a horrible year for American hockey. There was the infamous room-trashing at the Nagano Olympics -the guilty never confessed. Three months later, without a single Olympic team member, the 
United  Slates  finished  an  
embarrassing  12th  at  the  
World  Championship  in  

Switzerland, a result which forced the Americans into this week's qualifying. 
"It put a black eye on all players in the United States," Johnson said of the Olympics during a telephone interview Monday. "With the entire world watching it had a big impact. It was disappointing." 
"Then what happened last spring in the world champi­onship left a bad taste in peo­ple's mouths," added Johnson, an assistant coach at the University of Wisconsin and an 11-season NIII. player. "Maybe this can be the start of going in 
University of 
Notre Dame International Study Program 
-
INFORMATION MEETING 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 4, 1998 4:45 -5:45 P.M. 102 DEUARTOLO 
Applications Available Application Deadline: December 1, 1998 

the right direction again." 
Played in May at the height of' 
the NIIL season, the World 
Championship is always 
plagued by the absence of' 
North American stars. Jeff 
.Jackson, who coached the 
Americans last year, was blunt. 
'The event has no respect in 
the United States," he said. 
Maybe not, but other world 
hockey powers such as 
Sweden, Finland, Hussia and 
the Czech Hepublk take it seri­
ously. 
"We know the US/\ is a great 
hockey country and it would be 
unfortunate to lose them from 
the lop group," said Kimmo 
Leinonen, spokesman for the 
IIIIF, hockey's governing body. 
"Maybe these older guys will 
bring that the spirit of that 
1980 team." 
Broten, describing himself as 
"75 perc1~nt in shape," has 
been practicing for three weeks 
at home in Minnesota with 
brothers Aaron and Paul, 
retired NIIL play!ws who also 
are on the team. 
Broten is only playing because his brothers are. 
"I really haven't skat11d much for a year and a half," said Broten, who retired in '97 after 18 seasons in the Nlll.. "We're not going to out-skate or out­shoot or out-pass 'em. We'll just have to out-smart em." 
Unlike Neal Broten, Johnson has been working out sinee August and skates daily. Like Broten, he isn't looking for a leading role. 
"I wouldn't anticipatn a lot of ice time. We're going in sup­port and maybe provide some leadership," he said. "Sure, and if you like, add some mem­ories." 
The team is eoached by Ben Smith, who look the U.S. women to Olympic gold in Nagano. 
"We hope that will rub ofT," said Darryl Seibel, spokesman for USA Hockey. 
Of the 23 players on the ros­ter, seven -ineluding Neal Broten and Johnson -played in the Olympics. Tlw others are forwards David Emma, John Lilley, Corey Millen, and defensemen Greg Brown and Chris lmes. 
About a dozen have Nlll. experience. Most arn playing in leagues in Germany. Britain. Slovenia. Finland and Austria. with one college player (.Jason Blake, University of North Dakota) and two from the American Hockey League. 
page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 3, 1998 

Farley surprises PW with first round upset 
By NATHANIEL DeNICOlA Sports Writer 
In perhaps the greatest upset of the year, No. 8 Farley sur­prised No. 1 Pasquerilla West in first-round playoff action, defeating the Purple Weasels 6­0on Sunday, 
With a solid core of returning players and a number-one seed­ing, Pasquerilla West was highly favored to advance past the irrst round. 
Other teams in the league were stunned, though no one seems to be complaining. 
"Toward the end of the game, all the other teams watching were cheering for us," Farley captain Elizabeth Brown said. 
The underdog Farley team held strong against the formida­ble Pasquerilla West offense, keeping the game knotted at 0·0 through the first half. The sec­ond half witnessed the emer­gence of Farley's offense and a shift in momentum of the game. 
"Both teams really stepped it up in the second half," Brown said. 
Beth McKay scored the only touchdown of the game on a 40­yard-pass play early in the sec• ond half. The 6·0 lead proved to be enough, as the Farley defense completely shut down the opposing offense for the remainder of the game. 
Leading the assault was Rebecca Glatz, whli) t;~:tn~ up with a crucial sack on & Farley blitz. 
With less than five minutes remaining, the Farley defense was tested again, as Pasquerilla West marched inside the 10 • yard line. Farley h~lj] strong and prevented a score,·clinching the victory. 
Farley will continue to face fierce competition as they take on No. 4 Breen Philips next week. Yr';,;,i, . 
Following such · ~uJ:<H•!.F· victory, it could bediflti~ult remained focused with all the hype that surrounds Cinderalla team. 
"Perhaps P.W. waslooking too far ahead when they played us.'' .. Brown said. "We're notgoing to · do that. Nothing is going to change heading into next week's game." 
Breen Philips 6, Lewis 0 

No. 4 Breen Philips advanced 
to the second round of the 1998 · 
women's interhall playoffs by 
edging No. 5 Lewis in what 
proved to be a classic defensive 
battle. 
With both teams exhibiting 
stellar defense, .. neither offense 
was able produce an effective 
drive. Utilizing a series of short 
completions, Lewis advanced 
the ball, but was never able to 
capitalize with a score. 
"We noticed they were run­
ning many of the. st,tine plays," 
Breen Philips. middle linebacker 
Anne Moriarty said. ~·All we had 
to do was stop the short passes." 
Just before the end of the first 
half, Breen Philips' offense 
picked up as w~H• ht1t Lewis' 
defense held .strong and thwart­
ed the BP attack Maureen 
Neville and Meghari O'Connell 
served as the primary forces for 
the Lewis defense. which 
allowed only one touchdown. 
Qn£h however, .,WJ>:!)ld be all 
that Breen Philips \Jv6Uld need. 
In. the frrst five minutes of the 
second half, Breen Philips went 
on the offensive, sparked by an 
amazing 40-yard pass from 
quarterback Jenny Choi to Gina . Montanaro. ;,;; 
OnJhe next play.Sboi connect­
ed with Montenarri again, this 
time for a touchdown. The 6-0 
lead would be preserved as the 
Bf.een Philips def~nse took con~ 
tt()l fnr the r~rn~ r of the 
second half, In:at n to cap· 
turing two interc~ , Breen 
also staved off a Lewis 
that · ·· with Dina 
return. Breen 


What are you doing over Winter Break? 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 

Apply for the extended urban plunge experience ... 
Chicago: City of Hope? 
a week long seminar over Winter Break exploring issues facing the inner city of Chicago. 
. ··..·.,:·:··.: 

-
Information sessions S;O@ pm :~~w~:SC Tuesday, Nov. 3 Wednesday, Nov. 4 
Any ? Call Maureen Hoover (43211) 
• NATIONAl fOOTBAll lEAGUE 
Collins admits bad judgement in DUI 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. 
Kerry Collins, admitting he broke the law. was charged with drunken driving Monday, hours after being taunted by Carolina Panthers fans in his return to the city where he once was cheered. 
A police report said Collins, now a backup quarterback for the New Orleans Saints, was stopped after the car he was driving was observed crossing the center line on a downtown Charlotte street about 12:50 a.m. 
"Obviously I made a mistake. I don't think there's any ques­tion about that," Collins told WBTV as he prepared to board a flight Monday afternoon to New Orleans. "It was bad judg­ment on my part. 
"Whatever happens, I'm going to have to live with it. That's the facts. I broke the law." 
An affidavit filed by the arresting oflicer described what he found when Collins got out of the car: "very strong odor of alcohol, red and glassy eyes, slurred speech, unsteady on his feet." 
Collins, 25, refused to take a breath test. In accordance with North Carolina law, he auto­matically loses his driver's license for 12 months. He post­ed a $1,000 bond, was given a Nov. 12 court date and released from the Mecklenburg County Jail about 4 a.m. 
Collins signed autographs for jail employees while he was being processed, and a TV crew waiting outside captured him on tape with a large cigar in his mouth as he left the facility. 
The arrest represented anoth­er dark chapter for Collins, who became the Panthers' first-ever draft choice in 1995. But he failed to live up to the fran­chise's hope of becoming its cornerstone player. 
He was benched last month and subsequently cut after coach Dom Capers said Collins told him he had lost the will to play. lie was picked up by the Saints, but did not play Sunday when New Orleans lost 31-17. 
Collins was an early success story for the Panthers, leading them in 1996 to the NFC Championship game. He also played in the Pro Bowl after that season, a rarity for a see­ond-year quarterback. 
Collins spent the afternoon hearing repeated derisive chants from many in the Ericsson Stadium crowd of 62,514. He was arrested about nine hours after the game, about two miles from the stadi­um in an area filled with bars and restaurants. 
"It's unacceptable behavior," New Orleans general manager Bill Kuharich said, adding that the Saints planned to conduct a medical review to determine if Collins has a drinking problem. 
"The next step would be obvi­ously to get our team physician to make an evaluation." 
Collins also could face disci­plinary action from the NFL. A conviction on a charge of dri­ving while impaired would rep­resent a violation of the league's substance abuse policy and leave him subject to a fine of up to $20,000. 
When his flight arrived in New Orleans, Collins avoided reporters in the terminal by getting an escort from four Jefferson Parish deputies. They led him out a side door to a police car that carried him to the team's practice facility. 
The Saints returned to New Orleans immediately after the game, but coach Mike Ditka allowed Collins, Chad Cota and Eric Guliford -all former members of the Panthers -to stay behind in Charlotte. 
"The last thing I told him was, 'It's a very hostile environment down there. Can you handle that?'" Ditka said. "And he said, 'I'm not going to get into any trouble."' 
Steve Beuerlein, Collins' suc­cessor as Carolina's starting quarterback and one of his closest friends on the team, said he and Collins were joined by several other players, their families and friends at the Sunset Club after the game. Beuerlein said that when he left the clue about 9:30 p.m., Collins seemed fine. 
"I had no reason to think that there was going to be any news today at all," Beuerlein said. "I feel terrible for Kerry. There's never a good time for some­thing like this, but this is really not a good time." 
Highway Patrol trooper H.A. Benge said he arrested Collins arter pulling over a 1995 Lexus. 
"I was not aware that it was Mr. Collins before I stopped thP vehicle," Benge said. "lie was very polite." 
llighway Patrol spokeswoman Sara Kempin said Collins had an elevated aleohol reading on a pocket-sized sensor troopers carry in their cars. That read­ing wasn't available because it isn't used as evidence, she said. 
Also arrested was the owner of the car, Michelle Moore, who police said was a passenger. Moore, 27, of Fuquay-Varina, N.C., was charged with aiding and abetting driving while impaired. 
Ditka had said last week that he wanted to start Collins later this month. On Monday, the coach said he was unsure how the player's arrest would aiTect those plans. 
"I don't think he's a bad kid," Ditka said. "I do think maybe he's lost right now. I say that because he obviously doesn't understand what's best for his career or what's best for the Saints." 

Gavin deBecker 
Presents ............. The Gift of Fear Wednesday Noven1ber 4, 1998 
7:00 p.tn. @The Annenberg Auditorium in the Snite Museutn 

Gavin deBecker 
Come hear the nation's leading expert on the prediction of violent behavior. Author or the bestseller book The Gift of Fear. Mr. deHecker will give insightful information about l·talking. unwanted pursuit and how to be sate using your intuitions and best judgements. You have seen him on Oprall and every major talk show now sec and meet him right on campus. This presentation and his book could save your lite! 
Sponsored by Notre Dame SecurityiPolice Uepartment tor more mhmnation call 631-8338. 
----~------------------~----------------------------~----~------------------------~--~----~----~~---··---------~-------------------------­
Tuesday, November 3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
}' 
Top-seeded Keenan comes out strong against Fisher 

By CONOR MURPHY backs were getting good went on to score the last Sports Writer holes," The Green Wave cap­touchdown of the game, which tain Chris Bakus said about gave the team a commanding 
The old saying goes that on Keenan's first drive. "They 14-6 lead that would hold up any given Sunday any team were just very hard to stop." despite a last-second Fisher can beat another, but as was Yet Fischer was not intimi­drive. the case in Keenan and dated and responded with a The Green Wave had one Fischer's lirst round battle on score of their own when last chance with a drive in the this Sunday, it usually helps to junior quarterback Mike fourth. but turned the ball have more talent. Schultz hooked up with Steve over on downs. Keenan ran 
Keenan, the top seed in the Doherty to make it an 8-6 out the clock and secured the tournament, marched down game. first round victory. the field and took a command­The two-point try failed, "In the end," Bakus said. ing 8-0 lead on the strength of however, and the score "They played exactly like you a 15-yard touchdown pass and remained 8-6 heading into expect a top seeded team to. the ensuing two-point conver­halftime. Keenan executed vnry well." sion early in the first quarter. Keenan matched that score With the victory Keenan 
"Their quarterback was at the onset of the third quar­advances to the semi-finals extremely accurate and could ter, as it put its high-powered against north quad rival scramble, and the running offense to use again. Keenan Zahm. 
• INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Zahm bests Siegfried in first round 
By WES JACOBS from their team, by the end of key receptions, and numerous Sports Writer the day they were thoroughly key tackles. satisfied. In a game dominated by Throughout the game, both defense, the Zahmbies had 
Throughout the halls of teams gutted it out, only to reason to worry when the Zahm over the past week, see Zahm Hall come out on Ham b lers used a halfback there was only one thought on top in the end by a score of pass to convert their lone the minds of all Zahmbies: nine to eight. score of the game, to go up revenge. From the outset, the eight to three. 
After a shocking loss in the Zahmbies did not hide their They continued with their final game of their season to gameplan. On the first play of original game plan, however, the Ramblers of Siegfried, 8-7, the game, quarterback Matt and brought the ball to the the Zahm squad was eager to Bohnencamp hit tight end 10-yard line of Seigfried with take the lield again. Chris Bystedt for 50-plus seconds left in the third quar­
Lucky for them, they were yards, which eventually set up ter. paired against the very same a field goal. Only then did Zahm make a Siegfried team that had just "The Siegfried defense change, handing the ball off to beaten them, in the No. 4 forced our quarterbacks to King, who proceeded to walk against No. 5 game of the throw the ball," King said into the end zone for the win­1998 interhall football play­about the freshman quarter­ning score. offs. back tandem of Lickus and "Someone was always there 
"We were real happy with Bohnencamp. "and they con­to make the play for us. It our draw for the playoffs. To verted. Matt and Steve was really a team effort," get Siegfried again was great [Lickus] did a great job." King said. -we had no trouble finding Siegfried's large front line Fittingly, the game ended as motivation for this game," prevented Zahm fullback Matt it had been played out: with said Zahm senior co-captain Meyer from effectively run­defense. Countryman broke Colton King. ning the ball, so instead, the through the line to sack the 
And if the Zahm faithful Zahmbies went to the air. Siegfried quarterback to end expected an inspired effort "Bystedt really came up big all hopes for the Ramblers. 

for us," Zahm lineman Peter Countryman said. 
In addition, wide receiver Mike Bailey was outstanding for Zahm, coming down with 
Next week, Zahm will take on number-one seed and defending interhall champion, Keenan, for a chance to play in the stadium. 
Please Recycle The Observer 

-
page 16 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, November 3, 1998 
+ Campus Ministry This Week + 








OFFICE OF  
CAMPUS MINISTRY  
..  103 Hesburgh Library:  
631-7800  
112 Badin Hall:  
631-5242  
Basilica Offices:  
631-8463  
Web Page:  
- http://www.nd.edu/-ministry  

Monday-Friday, Nov. 2-6, 103 Hesburgh Library 
NDE #53 (Dec. 4-6) Sign-up 
Deadline: November 9 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badin Hall, or see your Rector 
Freshman Retreat #19 (November 13-14) Sign-Up 
Target Dorms: Farley, Fisher, Howard, Keenan, Keough, O'Neill, Pasquerilla West, St. Edward's and Walsh 
Tuesday, November 3, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Hall Chapel 
Campus Bible Study 
Wednesday, November 4, 7:00pm, Log Chapel 
Part 5 of a Seven-Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Piety by Fr. Bill Seetch, CSC 
Friday-Saturday, November 6-7, Fatima Retreat Center 
Marriage Preparation Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, November 6-7, 5:00pm-6:00pm, Five Pines 
Alianza Officers Retreat 
Friday-Saturday, November 6-7 
Notre Dame Handbell Choir Tour to Chicago and Schaumburg, Illinois 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesday, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's ChapeL Fisher Hall Fridays, 12:00 noon until4:45 pm, Lady ChapeL Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Emmaus 
Looking for an exciting place to explore and share your faith with others? Look no further. Emmaus is here. For more information on joining a small faith sharing community in our Emmaus program contact Tami Schmitz at 631-3016. 
Tuesday, November 3, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• NATIONAL FOOTBAL lEAGUE • INTERHALL SOCCER 
..
Taylor signs contract with Eagles Fisher, Alu01ni play 
Associated Press future in front of him." Taylor's season was cut short By signing the players before by a knee injury in 1997, and 
for cha01pionship
PIIILADELPIIIA 4 p.m. Monday, the Eagles do he missed first five games this 
Bobby Taylor, Philadelphia's top cornerback, agreed to a reportnd $28 million, six-year contract extension before the Eagles' game against Dallas Monday night. 
Philadelphia also signed defensive end Gn~g Jefferson to a 4-ynar extension. Both play­ers would have become unre­stricted frnn agents at the end of the season. 
"We want to keep our play­ers here, and this is certainly a step in that direction," said Tom Modrak, the Eagles' director of football operations. "lie's only 24 and has a great 
University of Notre Dame International Study Program in 
not have to count their 1998 salaries against this year's cap. 
Taylor, 24, gets a raise on his $1.1 million salary this sea­son and is signed through 2004. 
"This is truly something we're thrilled about," Eagles executive vice president Joe Banner said. "We've extended the contracts of two young quality players who we think will play a strong role in our future." 
The Eagles entered Monday night's game with a 1-6 record, their worst start since going 1-7 in 1975. 

INNSBRUCK, AUSTRIA 
Academic Year 1999-2000 
Came and meet Professor Gernot Guertler from Austria Director of the Innsbruck Program 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 5, 1998 
4:30 P.M. 120 DEBARTOLO 
Application Deadline Dec. 1, 
1998 

year with a fractured shoulder blade. 
"I want to be here," Taylor said after the Washington game. "Especially with [coach Ray Rhodes] and the coaches around here, there's chem­istry. They brought me in their first year here. 
But there's also a lot of things that have to be right for both parties to be happy." 
The Eagles selected Taylor in the second round in 1995 with a pick acquired from Kansas City in a trade for receiver Victor Bailey and a fourth­round pick. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

One Day Table Tennis Tournament -All games will be played on Saturday, Nov. 7, 1998 at the RSRC between 11 a.m. and 6 p.m. Sign-up at RecSports by Nov. 5 at 6 p.m. or calll-6100 for more information. Space is

li . 

ac/Staff/Family Tennis c ·4"· Bring your own 
~v.e:t·tQ.JJ;Ie ~ck Teu~i~t Pavilion for · $ free e nic presented ):) · · c. .:LA.n·•1·' 
Women's""': ...·.. . . . t:fnnis 
Teams., Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations hightlight this event from 6-7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 18. Don't forget your tennis shoes. No advance registra­tion necessary. Call RecSports at 1-6100 for more information. 
By MIKE CONNOLLY Sports Writer 
Two Cinderella teams look to complete their improbable runs to the championship tonight as sixth-seeded Fisher faces the fifth-seeded Alumni Dawgs in the men's interhall soccer championship. 
Fisher knocked off Stanford and then followed up their 4-2 overtime victory over No. 3 Dillon with a dominating 3-0 victory over second-ranked Zahm. 
"We've been playing a lot bet­ter toward the end of the sea­son," Fisher captain and goal keeper Rob Capone said. "We have a lot of freshmen who have come along as the season has progressed." 
The Wave defense is anchored by suberb sweeper Ben Bayer. "The defense makes my job a lot easier," Capone said. "I have only faced a handful of shots all year." 
The Fisher offense has also played well late in the season, out-scoring opponents 6-1 down the stretch. 
Midfielder Chris McCarthy's aggressiveness will key Fisher's attacking forwards Vince Desapio and Adrian Washington. 
The Alumni Dawgs are also no strangers to the upset. The Dawgs upset the top-seeded JuggerKnott 1-0 on Thursday. But the Dawgs are not treating it like an upset. 
"I don't know if it was an upset," Bart Lanahan said. "It was just two great teams battling it out." 
The Dawgs have propelled themselves into the finals through a mixture of aggres­siveness, hustle and talent. 
The Dawgs midfield was dom­inating, winning practically every 50/50 ball in their semifi­nal game. 
The grit and determination of the midfield leads to speetacular goals from talented forward Kabir Audu. 
"If we come out and play as well as we did against Knott," Alumni sweeper Dave Zachry said, "and continue to control the middle of the field and the balls in the air, we have a great chance to win." 
The Wave meets the Dawgs tonight at 7 p.m. on Stepan Field. 

Interested in writing sports? Contact the Sports Department at 1-4543 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, November 3, 1998 
• CROSS COUNTRY team has had success and enjoyed their season is that
Belles 
they enjoy one another. "We've definitely been doing

Irish finish third, fifth in Big East 
continued from page 20 
better and better every week," 

By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Sporrs Writer 
Notre Dame's cross country program took another step toward NCAA Championship invitations with solid runs at the Big East Championships last Friday at Franklin Park in Boston. Mass. 
The men finished third behind Georgetown and Providence while the women where bested by Villanova, Georgetown, Providence and Boston College. 
The third-place finish by the men was predictable before the meet began. Providence and Georgetown came in high­ly ranked and the Irish knew that a good run was needed to defend their 1997 Championship. 
Providence was led by Ben Noad. who ran a Big East and Franklin Park course record of 23:37. 
Providence might have been unbeatable. but Notre Dame felt that second place was not out of reach. 
Sophomore Ryan Shay and freshman Luke Watson were the two top runners on the team and earned all-Big East honors for their sixth and sev­enth place finishes. Shay ran the 8K race in 24:14 and Watson was just 13 seconds behind his teammate. The two were the first sophomore and freshman across the finish line out of all 13 teams in the meet. Seniors Antonio Arce and Ryan Maxwell, usually counted to run in the top five on the team, both ran sub-par races which left a cloud of 'what-might­have-been' over the meet. 
Head coach Joe Piane knew that the chance to finish sec­ond was not taken advantage of. 
"Tim Englehardt [who fin­ished third on the team at 
24:50] is usually our fifth run­ner across the line. He ran a great time and that was what we needed. For whatever rea­son, Arce and Maxwell ran poorly and we lost the oppor­tunity to knock Georgetown out 

... and discover hundreds of intriguing creations handcrafted by skilled artisans. Your purchase helps craftspeople provide food and education for their families. 
919 West McKinley Mishawaka (Tel) 255-3536 Mon.-Sat. 10-6 

TlllTliO\Ifof.~l> 
VILLAGES. 

of second place." Piane was pleased with the times of the rest of the team. 
Junior Sean McManus was fourth on the team with one of his best runs of the season at 
25:02. Freshman Marc Striowski rounded out the top five Irish finishes at 25:16, good enough for 26th overall. 
"We just need to chalk this one up to experience and move on. The NCAA invitation is on our minds and a solid run at the District meet is needed," Piane said. 
A top-four finish Nov. 14 at the NCAA District IV Championships should earn the team the right to run for the national championship. 
Thoughts of NCAA invites are running through the heads of the women's team as well. A solid fifth-place finish is a step in the right direction. 
Providence, Georgetown and Villanova were all top-H) teams in the women's field. Villanova upset the defending champions from Providence and earned its seventh title in the last 10 years. Just like the men, the women believed they were one place off where they should have been. 
"Finishing fourth was the ultimate goal, but the team is improving," head coach Tim Connelly said. Boston College edged the Irish 144-129 to earn third place. 
The women were led once again by junior JoAnna Deeter. 
Leading most of the race, Deeter was passed by women's champion Sarah Dupre of Providence in just the final 300 meters. 
Angela Graham of Boston College then lunged past Deeter at the finish line beat­ing her by a second. Deeter and Graham were just five sec­onds behind the winner. The third place finish, which earned All-Big East team sta-
University of Notre Dame International Study Program at 
tus, is remarkably the worst of Deeter's season -she had won all four of her previous meets. 
Junior Patti Rice continued her streak of second-place, team finishes with a time of 
18:12 which was 27th overall. Junior Alison Klemmer, sopho­more Erin Olson, and junior Erin Luby were the rest of the top-five Irish runners in 36th, 42nd and 43rd place. 
"We ran well but the team knows they are capable of much more," Connelly said. "I am pleased with some of the runners and frustrated with others. Hopefully, we can put it all together for the Districts." 
The women hope to take advantage of the expanded pool of teams invited to the NCAA Championships. Previously, only six slots were open for at-large teams who did not finish first or second in their district meets. 
· With perennial top teams like Michigan and Wisconsin in Notre Dame's district, the at­large berth is a way for the Irish to make noise at the National Championship. This year, 13 invitations will be issued to at-large teams. 
Coach Connelly knows what is needed: "We need to finish third [at the District IV meet] to get an invite. We are capa­ble of that type of perfor­mance." 
Both the men's and women's team left the Big East meet with a bad taste in their mouth. 
They believe they are capa­ble of so much more than they have shown. In two weeks, the last opportunity for a complete performance will be upon them. 
What the Notre Dame team makes of the trip to Terre Haute, Ind., for the District IV meet will determine whether the season will continue. 

NOTRE DAME AUSTRALIA 
Informational Meeting With Professor Greg Gundlash Fr. Bill Miscamble, C.S.C 
WEDNESDAY NOVEMBER 4, 1998 4:45PM 126 DEBARTOLO 

placed an impressive ninth out of 17 teams at the Benedictine Invitational early in October. 
Again, pack running was the order of the day. The top five runners had a total time differ­ence of only 1:16 at that meet. which was one of the reasons they were so successful. 
Another reason that the 
said Seggerson. "A lot of it is because we have a good time running together. That's what makes it fun." 
The Belles last meet will be the regional meet on November 14. It will be run at Albion College and teams from Ohio, Michigan and Indiana will all attend. 
good about ourselves. I feel really good going into the Big

Soccer 
East tournament." Petrucelli has reason to be 

c_o_n_t_i_n_u_ed_f_ro_m_p_a_g:_e_20___ confident. His defense has games, posting a 41-0-1 record allowed just 12 goals all sea­since a home loss to son. Connecticut in 1995. "We've been messing around The Irish are also coming oil' with our defense here for the a pair of victories last weekend last three weeks, trying to sort over it out and trying to get it right." Wisconsin and Syracuse, Petrucelli said. "And I think we which finished third in the Big got it right now. I think we're East. playing well baek there; we arc The offense and defense a lot more organized right seem to be peaking just in time now." for the tournament. Notre The defense will need to keep Dame outscored its last two its eye on Hena Lippa. the opponents 13-1. Mountaineers leading scorer Heft scored four times over with 12 goals and 28 points. the weekend, including a hat The Irish appear to be trick against the Badgers on putting all distractions aside Friday, and Anne Makinen had and are set at making another three goals in the Syracuse run at the title, hoping to make game. this their fourth in as many "I think it is very important years. for us to being playing well and "We aren't dealing with scoring goals," head coach expectations anymore," Chris Petrucelli said. "We're Petrucelli said. "We're dealing going to play against some with one game at a time." teams we are going to have to Notre Dame's defense of the score goals against to win. The Big East title begins tonight at other thing is we are feeling 7:30p.m. 
Use Observer Classifieds 
Did you Iniss out on JPW last year? 
If you are a senior who was abroad last semester or a junior with senior status and you would like to attend JPW 1999, then come join us!!! 
-Fill out a form in Room 206 LaFortune to get on the mailing list for Junior Parents Weekend 1999, February 19-21, 1999. 
-If you have any questions, call the JPW office at 1-6028 

Wednesday, Nov. 4th 7:00pm 
-
vs. Sweden National Team 



Volleyball 
Friday, Nov. 6th 7:00pm vs. Georgetown Sunday, Nov. 8th 2:00pm vs. Villanova 
..·~-~-.. ·:·~··;··."'• ...........~-······...........;..... ·:··:··.··-·---~·-·,-.L·:-:-_-'­

Tuesday, November 3, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
TEAM DEADLINES: Thursday, November 5th 
.. 
lnterhall Basketball (M & W) GFS Basketball 
lnterhalllce Hockey (M & W) 
-

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 

FOXTROT 

DILBERT 
IF YOU I WILL  ANGER. ME I CURSE f>..T  I WILl OEI'\ON5TR.A"TE f"\Y POWER t)'( BURNING I.JA.LLY'S LEFT EYEBROW.  
CROSSWORD  

ACROSS 22 Appr•Jve, in a 46 Studying war secondarily
tOne maybe red, white or 
23 Oscar w1nner 49 Musicians' sliver 
W1est treasures 50 Almost any

24 Rolle rooms Three Stooges4 Bar placed 
across a gwtar 26 M()'e moviefingerboard 
mysteriOUS 
51 Heed John the

aButtonhole 21 Host 
Baptist's advice t4 Osaka-to-Tokyo 
28 A1ps through 52 "The Girl With dir. 

pages? 

the Hatbox" star t s Ne1sse R1ver's 30 Melted glace 53 "Taps" time outlet 
3t Beastly blower 54 Electroplatingt&Mambo's terminals

38 Opera "The Tale

COUSin 
of--Saltan" 55 Kettle sound n L1ght, 
56 It starts in April42 Amarct1ca's 

one-seated 
in D.C.
Coast

camage 43"Tsk'"
19 N1ght-bloommg cactus 4S Cruise DOWN destmation
20 Coal tar 1 A Fordderivatives 46 Statue brought 
2 One who does
to tie, 1n myth

21 One may be voice-overs 
3 Style of the Ashcan School 4 Beneficiary's
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
brother, 


perhaps 13 Some lest
s Keats, to Shelley participants
6 Cartoon character who 18 Cracked debuted in 1944 25 Words before 
7 They're found in "Love·· on the ground screen and in 8 Assumed, with song "to" 
29 Lauders 9 Guillotined 
31 Nancy'sFrench poet successorAndre de-­32 Creative types
to Dough to go? 11 About 3 '12 

33 Heavy-handed million square 
group miles 34 Obscured, with 12 Didn't go near "out" 
35 Travel agent's 39 Gorge suggestion 

•
40 Fixed up 
36 Can't take 4t Chromalogra 37 1973 Pulitzer 
phy spray winner 44 Popular FitzGerald liniment 38 "Amadeus" 
brand choreographer 48 Mare's·nest 
Answers to any three clues rn this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420·5656 (75C per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-BBB-7·ACROSS 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
.,. 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS educational pursuits. Creative en­DAY: Roseanne, Dennis Miller, deavors will be your most progres­Charles Bronson, Adam Ant si\'e choice. Your natural talent for Happy Birthday: Don't be con· quality and ability to work in detail fused by the emotional upsets that should lead you toward des1gn. 000 face I'OU this year. If you stay calm, LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Trips you will do \\'hat's best for you and ll'ill bring cultural knoll'ledgc that tho><• vnu love. This is a time of will benefit )'llU. Attend seminars if chang~; trying to stop things from possible and pick up additional skills happening will only set you back. Go that will enable you lo gPt ahead in with the flow and you'll find the your professional objectives. 000 prosperity that you're searching for. SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Rela· Your numbers: 3, 8, 17, 26, 35, 44 tionships can be highly passionate. ARIES (March 21-April 19): You Your intensity will grow if you get will ruffle feathers easily if you arc positive response from your mate. o\'erl\' opinionated while attending Pleasure trips will be entertaining and group functions. Heed the advice COI\duci\'e to starting new friendships. giwn by older individuals whom you 000 n.·~p•xt. 000 SAGIITARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Your Your ability to work hard is obvious. profl'ssional and personal respon­Don't get sidetracked bl' co-workers sibilities mar interfere with one who arc unreliable. DiSagreements another. Be sure to think twice before may result in a loss of your populari· making statements that you'll regret ty at your place of employment. later. Drastic changes may occur in 00000 p.lTim•rs. 000 CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-)an. 19): GEMINI <May 21-)une 20): You You will get along well with most will spend more than necessary if you people today. Social e\'ents will be take trips or tr..at peers. Be careful enjoyable, promoting new friend· what you say and to whom if you ships. Purchases mad<• today will not wish to keep a good reputation. Don't be satisfactorv. 00 jump to conclusions. 0000 AQUARIUS ()an. 20-Feb. 18): Get CANCER (June 21-July 22): Don't your domestic chores out of the \\'a)' lend or borrow money or F)osscssions and then get a little extr.1 rest. Emo­toda\'. You may get taken advantage tional upset due to criticism will of ii _1·uu give too much of your own lower vour self-esteem. Retaliation lime ircely. Do not take on other peo­will only make things worse. 0000 ple's problems. 00 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): You LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You will may get angry with acquaintances get the best results from work-related who pressure you to contribute to matters. Spend time doing the most something you don't feel is worth· thorough job possible. Be careful while. Minor health problems will what you say to your lover. You may plague you if you haven't taken the be misinterpreted. 00000 proper precautions. Don't forget to VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You get your flu shot. 000 can expand your knowledge through Birthday Baby: You can sec the big picture. You will always be prepared to giw others what they want. You know instinctively how things work and what to do in order to keep the peace. You can become a great leader if you decide that is what you want to become. (:-.leed advice? Visit Eugenia on the Web at www.astroadvice.com or www.eugenialast.com.)  
w Tbe Nanovic lnstitue -The Nanovic Institute pre­sents a lecture by Professor Gary Hamburg, University of Notre Dame at 4:15 pni, room 125 DeBartolo, on Wednesday, November 4th. "Historical Consdousness a11c.l the End ofSoviet Power" ...:;:;  
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff.  

BILL AMEND 
SCOTT ADAMS 
ow! ow! 11-(AT'S 
NOT AN 
E'f'E~ROW! 
\\I 



GFS Ice Hockey Campus CoRee Broomball 
RecSports Office Rolfs Sports Recreation Center 1-61 00 • http://www.nd.edu/...recsport 
-


• Three Kentucky • Farley upsets •Bobby Taylor signs a 
. _.., 
Wildcats suspended for Pasquerilla West in $28 million, six year 
four games by coach women's interhall contract with the 
Tubby Smith action Eagles 
p.I4 p.l7 p.I2 
PORTS 
page20-------------------------------------O THE -----------------Tuesday, November 3, 1998
BSERVER 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Irish net win against One-World All-Star Team 

By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Sports Writer 

It has been touted as the best Notre Dame men's basketball recruiting class in recent histo­ry. 
The 7.423 people at the Joyce Center last night had a chance to pass early judgment on that statement with incoming fresh­men Troy Murphy, David Graves and Harold Swanagan making their debut versus the One­World All-Stars. Notre Dame came away with a 97-87 victory. 
Murphy showed right from the first Irish possession that he fig­ures to play serious minutes and handle the scoring load on the team. Murphy took the ball to the hole strong all night and provided plenty of energy by leading the team in scoring, con­tributing 21 points and nine rebounds with a particular flair for the offensive boards. 
"Troy went hard to the offen­sive glass and did a lot of good things," head coach John MacLeod said. "He will need to grow up quick because he is going to play right away." 
Murphy's fellow classmate David Graves also had an impressive debut. His stat line read 16 points, six rebounds, 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 
three assists and two steals, with most of those points coming on sprint outs after Notre Dame defensive rebounds. 
"Graves got a lot of his points on bust-outs, something he will need to do a lot this year," MacLeod said. 
Murphy and Graves were joined in the starting line-up by Phil Hickey, Antoni Wyche and Martin Ingelsby. The Irish faced a One World team comprised of players from European, African and South American countries. 
Wyche and Ingelsby were two key components in the new pressure defense that MacLeod unveiled last night. Following a made Irish free-throw, they instituted a press to force some turnovers and obtain some easy points. Wyche and Ingelsby combined for five steals and nine assists. 
"We had 13 steals and that is really encouraging," MacLeod offered. "We want to play an up-tempo game and the press is one of the things we are working on." 
One tradition from previous seasons repeated itself with Hickey's propensity to get in early foul trouble. Hickey was going against 7-2 Garth Joseph from the Dominica and was whistled two times in the first 
three minutes of the contest. MacLeod expressed some con­cern: "Hickey showed that same 
pattern from last year or get­ting in early foul difficulty. That is something he needs to work on." 
Ilickey will need to play big minutes with only Hans Hasmussen and Murphy mea­suring above 6-8 on the roster. The Notre Dame interior defense was tested in the second half by Joseph, who finished with 12 points and 10 rebounds in only 23 minutes of playing time. 
When Hickey was relegated to the bench, Hasmussen stepped in and had a solid performance with nine points and six rebounds. Dennis Carroll also flashed an ability to score ofT the bench with 10 points including two of three from behind the three-point arc. 
"Carroll gave us a definite boost, he ean flat-out score," MacLeod stated. 
Jimmy Dillon played a solid game at the point baeking up Ingelsby with eight points and four assists. Other contributors from the Irish bcneh were Leviticus Williamson, who scored on a soaring alley-oop 
see IRISH I page 12 
Belles finish strong in MIAA Championship 
MOLLY MCVOY 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's cross-coun­try team proved on Friday that five runners together are defi­nitely stronger than five run­ners separate. 
The Belles finished sixth out of 10 in the MIAA Conference Championship for the second

• year in a row. 
They continue their "pack­running" strategy with their top five runners crossing the finish line nearly together. The time difference between the first and fifth runner was less than three minutes. 
Runners at the Nos. 1, 2 and 3 spots placed 39th, 40th, and 41st, and each came in one second behind the other. These all add evidence of the successful running strategy they have been using all year. 
Freshman Melissa Goss was Saint Mary's No. 1 runner, fin­ishing with a time of 20:23. 
Sophomore co-captain

.. 
Gennie Yavello was the Belles second finisher (20:24) and junior Melissa MilJer finished third for Saint Mary's (20:25). Junior, co-captain, Krista Hildebrand and freshman Sara Belles. 

Calvin College won the con­ference championship for the second straight year. Hope College, Albion College, Kalamazoo College and Alma College also placed ahead of Saint Mary's. 
Although Saint Mary's ran well, they were not running at top condition. 
"As a team we did not do as well as we could have," head coach Dave Barstis said. "We just kind ofhad an off day." 
Hildebrand ran with a pulled groin muscle and two others were not feeling well. Losing four members from last year, the Belles had to make due with a team of seven. 
Regardless of their size, they pulled together and toughed it out. 
"We all are there to help each other out," says Hildebrand. "lt makes a big difference if you have prob­lems during a race and some­one is there to help you." 
This meet is another exam­ple of the consistency that has been characteristic of Belles' cross-country this season. 
Saint Mary's most impres­sive meet came when they 
Irish prepare for Big East tourney 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 

For the fifth-ranked Notre Dame women's soccer team, it's tournament time. 
Big East championship quar­terfinal action gets underway today, with the second-seeded Irish {16-2-1) taking on sev­enth-seeded West Virginia (11­5-2) at Alumni Field. 
"It's a big game for us," junior forward Jenny Heft said. "If we lose we are out of the tourna­ment. With it being at the end of the season, we need to win every game from here on out." 
The two teams met earlier this season and the Irish walked away with a convincing 7-0 vic­tory at Alumni Field. 
"They gave us a little trouble in the beginning of the game, but then we ended up blowing them out," said Heft, who led the Irish with 26 goals during the regular season, tying Cindy Daws' school record. 
In that Sept. 4th contest, Notre Dame didn't get off a shot until six minutes into the game, but the Irish caught fire quickly. Jenny StreiiTer and Heft led the way, as each recorded hat tricks. 
LaKeysia Beene and Elizabeth Wagner combined for the shutout of the Mountaineers. as Notre Dame outshot West improved a great deal since then. West Virginia finished the season with just a 4-5-1 confer­ence record, but the Mountaineers are unbeaten in their last 4 games and were vic­torious over Seton Hall, a team that defeated the Irish three champs, to overtime before falling 2-1. 

The Irish. however, have a lot of confidence heading into the rematch. 
Notre Dame is currently rid­ing a four-game win streak and is unbeaten in its last 42 home 
Seggerson came in fourth and Virginia, 37-4. weeks ago. WVU also took -fifth, respectively, for the The Mountaineers have Connecticut, the regular season
see BELLES I page 18 see SOCCER I page 18 
at Boston College at Boston College 
~ Saturday, 2 p.m. -~ Friday, 7 p.m. SMC Swimming atSPORTS • ... • f!i University of Chicago,
ATA 
Saturday, TBA 

at Big East Quarterfinals at Georgetown Today, 7:30p.m. Friday, 7 p.m. 
GLANCE 

Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER 
IN THE ­
SPOTLIGHT 
2ND 
SEASON AT NOTRE DAME 
Bob Davie CAREER RECORD 12-7 AT NOTRE DAME 12-7 AGAINST nAYLOR 0-0 


ROSTER 

No.  Name Pos.  Ht.  Wt.  YR  
1  Deke C<x>per FS  6-3  221  JR  
2  Benny Guilbeaux SS  6-2  215  SR  
3  AllUIZ B.tttle (.)B  6-1  195  FR  
4  Kory Minor OLB  6-1  245  SR  
5  A'janl Sanders FS  5-il  191  SR  
6  Malcolm Johnson SE  6-5  215  SR  
7  Jarious Jncksun QB  6-0  220  SR  
8  Eric Chappell QB  b-4  225  JR  
8  Anthony Brannan 01.1!  5-11  203  JR  
9  Raki Nelson FL  5-11  178  JR  
10  l.kvenm llarper CB  5-il  187  JR  
i1  Jay Johnson SE  6-0  187  JR  
12  Tony Fisher Rl!  6-1  202  FR  
13  Hmmy l'riday ILU  6-2  236  SR  
14  David Givens WR  6-0  214  FR  
15  Clifford jdfel1i<m DB  5-9  165  FR  
16  john Shingler TE  6-1  250  SR  
17  I luntt·r Smith P  6·2  218  SR  
18  joev l;••therall SE  5-7  172  so  
19  jim.Snnmm K  5-9  189  JR  
20  C1rlos Picrrl•-Antninl' LB  6-2  240  FR  
21  ),win llunt<•r Wll  5·11  172  FR  
22  l•v Vicker. TIJ  6-0  215  IR  
23  Autry Denson TB  5-10  202  SR  
24  Ty G<x>de CR  5-11  192  SR  
2.<;  Tony DrivL'r FS  6-2  214  so  
26  l..t.oe Lalavette SS  5-10  198  JR  
27  lk>bhi<• I ioword ILB  5-10  232  SR  
28  Donald Dykl'> DB  5-10  186  FR  
2R  Mike Grady FS  5-11  200  JR  
29  Justin Smith CB  6-2  lHH  so  
30  Rocky Boiman DB  6-3  222  FR  
31  Eric Hi man Cll  5-11  179  SR  
32  Terr,111Cl' 1-lowtlfd IUJ  6-1  181  Rll  
32  ]ustin Mcko SS  5-11  2()<)  SR  
33  )clffih.' Spenn•r FB  6-1  245  SR  
33  Phil Sicuso CB  5-11  188  5R  
34  Ronni<• Nkks 11.11  6-1  234  JR  
35  David Miller K-P  5-11  177  fR  
35  jasdnt Vuk..Jich FB  6-0  224  so  
36  Tom Lopienski FB  6-2  240  FR  
36  lim Lynch CB  5-9  177  SR  
37  Ron Israel CB  6-0  198  so  
37  K<•vin Rice 55  6-0  212  SR  
38  llnx·k Williams CB  5-10  189  so  
39  Anthuny (Jt.-nman OLB  6-1  231  so  
39  Chris lt.'Ck 55  5-10  195  JR  
40  }dslm Murray FB  6-1  2.'4  so  
40  llrendan Farrell lUI  5-10  220  JR  
41  Joe Ferrer OLB  6-2  231  )R  
42  Antwuinc Wl•llington NG  6-0  2M  JR  
43  II ugh HolmL'S IL!l  6-1  212  so  
44  Grant Irons OLB  6-5  256  so  
45  Joey Goodspeed FB  6-0  241  JR  
46  Kevin Dansby OLB  6-1  228  so  
46  Bt.•njaFin Robinson TE  6-2  241  5R  
47  Mike McNair FB  6-0  221  FR  
48  )ohnathan Hebert SF  5-11  202  )R  
49  Joe Thomas ILli  6-2  227  SR  
50  IJavid Payne 0G  6-1  287  SR  
51  Tyn•o llnrrison LB  6-2  238  FR  
53  Ldmont Rryant DE  6-3  2.';8  SR  
54  Luke Petitgout OT  6-6  300  5R  
55 58  Ji.m )on<'S OG Bn•ndiln O'Connor ex;  6-3 6-2  295. 292  )R JR  
62  C.tscy Robin OT  6-6  300  so  
6.1  Mike Tribe ILil  5-10  220  JR  
64  John Ml•randi C  6-3  292  )R  
66  JW jorddn C  6-0  289  so  
67  john W.1gner OT  6-7  300  SR  
611  M.ttt Brennan OT  6-7  295  JR  
69  Mike Gandy 0G  b-4  296  )R  
70  ·nm Ridder OC  6-7  298  SR  
71  jerry Wume OC  6-7  298  5R  
72  l~y•n Sc.rola OL  b-4  310  FR  
73  Jeff Ro<•hl 0!.  6-4  287  FR  
74  Ruh Muwl C  6-5  295  JR  
76  John ·y~nsd.tll.' OT  6-5  295  so  
77  Br.td Williams DE  6-5  286  JR  
78  Jordon Black Ol.  6-5  310  FR  
79  MikL• Rosl•nthal OT  6-7  300  SR  
HI  Lt•wis Dawson Fl.  6-ll  185  )R  
8.1  Pdtrick Reynolds WR  5-11  179  FR  
84  Gerald Morgan TE  6-3  263  FR  
s.<;  Antwon Jones NG  6-3  280  SR  
85  Mark Rul<• WR  6-2  218  SR  
Rli  Dnn O'l..c.•ary TE  6-5  256  JR  
H7  )ahnrl Holloway TE  6-3  2.'4  so  
H8  !lobby Brown FL  6-3  194  SR  
H~  John Day-Owens TE  6-3  228  FR  
90  Lance Legn'<' NG  6-1  292  IR  
QJ  Nunh VanHook-Drudu.>rDE  b-2  24<  IR  
92  Addm Tibbie K  5-11  183  FR  
93  B) Scott DE  6-4  282  JR  
94  Andy Wisne NG  6-3  285  so  
95  Ryan Roberts l.B  6-1  235  FR  
96  Sean Mahan DL  6-3  262  FR  
97  Kurt Vollers DT  6-7  280  so  
98  Anthony Weaver DL  6-3  249  FR  
98  ErlcGiass DT  6-4  235  JR  
99  jason Ching DE  6-3  280  JR  

The Observer/Kevin Dalum Jerry Wisne will have to be on top of his game as the Bears will appl)l pressure. 
Bob Davie's plan to pass when he 
wants to instead of when he has to, 
depends on the consistency of the 
running game. Baylor will be keying 
on Notre Dame's workhorse, Autry 
Denson, which puts more pressure on 
the Irish offensive line. 
The mammouth group in the trench­
es boasts the experience to overpow­
er the Bears' front. But the true test 
will be preventing the blitzing Bears 
from getting to quarterback Jarious 
Jackson. Through seven games, 
Baylor's defense has recorded a 

The Observer/Pat Quigley Tim Ridder and his linemates will look to give Irish runners more room to roam. 
whopping 18 sacks setting the opposi­tion back a total of 116 yards. The upstart Bears are led by linebacker Jason Jackson's three sacks and seven tackles for losses, while Kris Micheaux is second on the team with 58 tackles. 
Luke Petitgout, Jerry Wisne, John Merandi, Tim Ridder and Mike Rosenthal have a combined 19 years of college football experience, and they weigh as much as a small auto­mobile. Tomorrow it's their turn to throw their weight around. 

SPL!T!)JD CORNERBACK 10·Harper
~·M,·< lOn 
1-fUII<Il 
'"·.ICHAniOO 

TAILBACK 6-Bush 
11-Burkins 
FULLBACK ~
4-Lagway ··· 
27-~verstreet .. 
RIGHT TACKLE 
65·Fietcher 
77·Nichols 
STRONG 
SAFETY 
25·Drlver 

22-Lafayette 91-WIMI
LEfT EN'
-····· 
2ND 

SEASON AT BAYLOR 
CAREER RECORD: 68-62-3 AT BAYLOR: 4-13 AGAINST NOTRE DAME: 0-0 
" ROSTER 
NamL' Pus. Ht. Wt. YR Andra Fuller Wll 5-JO 171 FR Dexter Ford Rll 5-11 224 Jl~ Daniel Wiltumer DB 5-7 174 so Allen Pace CB 5-9 175 so Pacr Plcante liT 12oz $1.99 NYC 
Derek Lagway FB 6-1 235 so Odell jamL'S QB 6-3 226 so Darrell Bush TB 5-11 202 so Kyle Staudt DB 6-2 18/i FR Nikia Codie DB 6-3 207 SR Nokia Camera K 5-3 35mm ZM Morris Anderson WR 6-l IY.~ SR David joseph Qll 5-11 1H7 JR Elijah Burkins TB 5-7 
Jll Elijah I'J{ 5-6 OT McKinley Bowie I.B 6-0 so Derrius Thompson WR 6-2 SR 
E1 Guapo Chad Pechan•k Rodm•y Smith Michael Odum 
·i:/:::~~~~l-~~~:1 ~t 
Gary Baxter 
lo•h Gerloff 
Davr Lecncy 
M.utin Dossett Bl.tke Warren 
J<·nn Bonita 
Sean Armistead Frank Solofra GS 5-7 MX 
K '>-9 )R 
SS )R 
(.)1! Fll 

..p;Do:.B-...fiil!--..;J~-.:ftl'o--\-­
DB 6-1 193 SO TE M! 2110 SR IG 6-4 135 IR WR 5-11 170 SO l.B 5-11 214 rR S.~ 6-4 282 Sll FS 5-10 183 IR IIA Y-7 102 Ill 

Ryan Chapdelaine P 6-0 !HI SO Allison Krilla QB 6-5 22S SR Robert Neal Cll 5-9 197 JR Heath Sloe~ I.D 6-l 232 l'R Darwin Scott Dll 5-10 198 SO )ames Wegener WR 6-l 18.1 FR Anthony Overstn~·t Rll 5-11 21R SR jobo Cava to QT 6-7 28/i fiR Rob<•rt Daml'll Wll 5-11 183 FR Scott Frake• WR 6-1 187 I !U Bob Grunzinger TB 6-ll 1HO BF Drew Harding DB 5-9 180 SO Clifton Rubin DE Ml 227 SR jam<'' )L'SSe NG 6-7 330 !R Kyle Atteberry P 6-ll 174 JR 
M. Shannon Ry.tn QB 4-10 29'1 FR 
Jason Lary LD 5-11 212 SO 37 Kenyada Parkl'r LB 6-2 I99 SR 39 LeTroy Jl,tmilion NT 6-ll 279 SR 40 Andre Tnylor I.B 6-l 2.14 JR 40 john Dally (.)1! 6·10 285 IR 41 Leonard Hill 1.11 6-2 224 SR 42 Tommie Black DB 6-0 21i!l SO 4..1 David Quinene Fll 5-9 208 JR 44 Brandon Thompson TE 6-2 256 SO 45 Kris Micheaux LB 6-1 261 SO 46 Curtis Henderson Dll 5-9 1R9 SR 4R Charles Fosler DL 6·1 2.~5 JR 49 Wade Speckels P 6-3 214 SO 49 Green Speckels K 6-2 2.'i6 FR 50 joe jackson C 6-2 269 FR 50 5hockoss LF b-0 .353 BS 51 Eric Clay LB 6-1 235 SO 52 Greg Jerman ,f:iJ 6-5 273 FR 53 Fred Rogers ..)); 2 265 JR 54 Toby Summers L 6-2 261 )I~ 55 Jason Jackson l.ll 6-{) 234 JR 56 Chris Sampy 01. 6·1 280 SR 57 Joel Warren Lll 6-1 240 FR 58 Spence Hegener D5 6-3 2.13 FR 59 Kelvin Gorman OL 6-2 Jib SR ol Kit Kerbel DS 5-11 2.15 SO 62 Knight Rider DH V8 360 CA 04 Chris Watton OL 6-3 1!111 JR 65 Derrick !~etcher OT 6-f> :l44 S1l 67 David Armstrong OL 6·5 261 FR 69 Heather (:ocks EC 5-5 125 SR 70 Scott Childress 01. 6-1 334 JR 71 Jon Erickson OL b-4 283 FR 72 johnny Two-times Get the papers grt thr papers 74 Brinn Sutton 01. 6-4 263 jll 76 Carlos Rocha OL 6-3 284 JR 77 Luk•• Nichols 0!. 6-4 297 SO 79 Mike Love 01. h·l 303 )R 80 Gimmiesome Love I-IT 6-9 69 1'5 80 Mark Deboy TE 6-9 331 (.)T 82 Dwight Johnson Dl. 6-4 276 JR 82 Jason Lichte TE 6-3 2.10 SO 83 justin Snow DE 6-3 240 )R 86 Gamer Simpkins Wll 5-9 177 SR H8 Don Arroyo TE 6-3 240 JR 
Andl'"1l•w Obriutti 
90 Eddrick. Brook:, DE <>-2 2.<;tt JR 91 )amL'S Calvin NT 6-1 2BB JR 92 Calvin &HobbL'S CT 6-3 242 )R 93 Melvin Gardner DE 6-3 245 so 95 Ryan Gillenwater DT 6-1 2K5 FR 95 !lob Dirtywater OT 6-10 402 FR 96 Ronald Smith NT 6-3 290 so 98 Demetrio Phillips Dl. 6-3 264 FR 99 Matt Bryant K 5-9 192 SR 99 jefferson Shoe QT 5-4 110 JR 
~.J--5'-.. ---..-' --~ ...., 
Friday, October 30, 1998

page 6 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
• IRISH INSIGHT
-
Irish hope more treats are in store for '98 
BRIAN KESSLER Assistant Sporrs Editor 

Will it be trick or treat for 
Notre Dame when they host 
Baylor tomorrow on 
Halloween? 
If the ghosts of the 1925 
Fighting Irish team make their 
way into Notre Dame Stadium, 
it could result in another 41-0 
victory. It may not be that easy. 
however. 
"I think our football team 
realizes that Baylor will be 
hard to beat." head coach Bob 
Davie said. 
This year's Irish squad, how­ever, enters the game with a 5­. 1 record and a No. 16 ranking, clearly having it's fair share 
treats: 

Sept. 5: Tailback Autry Denson rushes for 162 yards as Notre Dame upsets the defend­ing national champions, 36-20. 
Sept. 26: Safety Tony Driver intercepts two passes in the closing minutes of game, set­ting up Jim Sanson's game­winning field goal against Purdue. 
Oct. 3: Quarterback Jarious Jackson rushes for 100 yards and throws for 163 more, while scoring three touchdowns in Notre Dame's 3 5-17 win over Stanford. 
Oct. 10: Fullback Joey Goodspeed rushes for 109 yards on four carries as the Irish overcome the desert heat to defeat Arizona State, 28-9. 


Oct. 24: Sanson nails a career-long 48-yard field goal with 1:08 left on the clock, as Notre Dame squeaks past Army, 20-17. 
However, on Sept. 12, Michigan State played a big trick on the Irish, as they sent Notre Dame home with a 45-23 defeat -a loss that still has Irish fans shaking their heads in disbelief. 
On Halloween, the Bears are looking to do the same. 
Baylor head coach Dave Roberts. former offensive coor­dinator at Notre Dame, returns as a coach to Notre Dame Stadium for the first time since his departure. Roberts would love to spoil the Irish's seven­game home winning streak. The Bears may even have a few tricks up their sleeves. 
"On offense, they do a lot of The Observer/John Daily things," Davie said. "They run Irish head coach Bob Davie hopes that his squad will become more some !-formation. They run dominant this weekend against Baylor. 
many options. Every week they as Baylor," Davie said. "They Notre Dame Stadium. have a new little different style. bring inside linebackers a lot. So far the Irish are enjoying They have done some four wide They bring secondary players a their best season since 1993 and try to throw the ball; so lot They pia true bump and and ~ocust'ng on one game at a
they do a lot of different things. · Y -­
But the things 1 see, they have run, man-to-man coverage out time. 
on wide receivers. They are "We're heading into some got two quarterbacks that are impressive. They have got a lot uncharted waters," Davie said. 
athletic. They have got a couple of good athletes and they play "This is the first time since '93 big running backs and they hard on defense. I think they that Notre Dame has been a S­have also got some speed run-are playing good defense right 1 football team. None of these ning backs and they have got " coaches were here in '93. None some big 300-pound linemen no;;.:vie said he didn't recall of these players were here in on their offense. They have got any strange happenings on '93. So what I try to do is edu­some good players." Halloween. but they may cate them the best I can for the 
The aggressive Baylor change if the student section next step in this season." defense could pose some prob-has anything to do with that. That next step includes Davie lems for Jackson and company. Fish have joined marshmal-and the Irish treating the fans 
• "On defense. I doubt we'll lows as the new deli'cacy dur-to a wm · over Baylor tomorrow. play a team like this all year -ing halftime. And if you look In the meantime, the student we ha.ven't playe~ a team in a closely a few witches and mon-section is sure to be up to a few long time that blitzes as much sters may make their way into tricks of their own . 
. . ....... ··-...... ------·
-~--­
. ..· S OPen for lunch FridaY. SaturdaY. SundaY We accept Visa, Mastercard, Discover • only valid @ above location • across from Linebacker • exp. Oct. 31, 1998 GO IRISH •• BEAT BEARS  


page 7 

Friday, October 30, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER 
THE IRISH INSIDER LOOKS AT
EYE ON 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION -­
FOOTBALL GAMES 
Gators battle Bulldogs in pivotal clash 
By BILL HART 
Two of tho top toams in the SEC West squaro ofT in the aptly named "World's Biggest Cor.ktail Party." 
Fifth-ranked Florida r.omes ofT a r.onve­nient bye wnek, its last game being a 24-3 win over Auburn. which was less impres­sivo than the score implied. 
Aftnr pulling away in the ser.ond quarter. Florida head eoaeh Steve Spurrier pulled the plug on thn Gator offense in the ser.ond half. possibly in attempt to save the fire­works for this weekend's game. The Gators had 79 yards and no points in the seeond half. prompting a few fans at the Swamp to boo tlwir own team. The 301 total yards was the lowest in any win with Spurrier as eoarh. 
llowever, the laek of fireworks for the Gators r.ould be attributed to the number of players sidolined for the gamo. Three weeks ago against LSU, the team lost lead­ing rusher Terry Jackson to a sprained left ankle. While the initial reports expocted the running baek to be injured two-to-four weeks, it looks very doubtful that he will heal in time for the game. 
Although the backups of Hobert Gillespie and Eugnne McCaslin have been able to earry that burden successfully, starting quarterback Jesse Palmer looks to be very dinir.ult to replace. In the second quarter of the dash with the Tigers, Palmer left the game aftnr being sacked with a broken right davicle. The SEC's leader in pass effi­ciency. Palmer is likely out for tho season. 
On the other end of the field, No. 11 Georgia hopes to pull otl' a more impres­sive showing than last week's 28-26 squeaker over Kentucky. While the Bulldogs were able to take the lead for good in the third quarter with a 34-yard touchdown pass, the pesky Wildcats con­tinued to thrnaten until the final play, a last-second 49-yard field goal attempt never got ofT the ground. 
The Bulldogs are led by quarterback Quincy Carter, who threw two touchdown passes and ran for a score in last week's victory. Carter ranks fifth in the SEC in passing, just ahead of the Gators' Doug Johnson. 
While both teams are tied in the SEC 
Obst3rver,IJohn Dally 
West Virginia speedster Amos Zereoue looks to rebound from a thigh injury against the Hokies. 
East standings with 4-1 conference records, perennial rival Tennessee still holds a firm grip on the top spot. In order for the winner of this matchup to have a shot at a share of the conference title, the fourth-ranked Vols must stumble at least once in one of their four remaining SEC games. 

after 
easily dispatching Northeast Louisiana last 

TEAM RECORD POINTS 
7. Nebraska 7-1 1,250 
defensive line 

Dennis 1 . Ohio St. (58) 7-0 1,744 
Northcutt and 2. UCLA (1) 6-0 1,641 
ran for a score all in the open­

3. Tennessee (3) 6-0 1,617 
ing 16 minutes

4. Kansas St (2) 7-0 1,565 
of the game. On

5. Florida St 7-1 1,438 
the other end of 

6. Florida 6-1 1,437 
the ball, the 

8. TexasA&M 7-1 1,240 collected nine sacks and held
9. Wisconsin 8-0 1,209 
the Indians to

10. Penn St 5-1 1 '118 
just 65 rushing

11. Georgia 6-1 1,036 
yards on 39

12. Oregon 6-1 997 
carries. 13. Arizona 7-1 887 If No. 17 
14. 
Arkansas 6-0 847 Oregon's offen­

15. 
Virginia 6-1 811 sive might could be traced


16. Notre Dame 5-1 621 
to one person,

17. Syracuse 4-2 476 
it would proba­

18. Missouri 5-2 472 
bly be quarter­19. Tulane 6-0 463 
back Akili 

20. 
Virginia Tech 6-1 394 Smith. The 

21. 
West Virginia 4-2 291 senior from San Diego has had a


22. Michigan 5-2 231 
fairy-tale sea­

23. Geogia Tech 5-2 175 
son in 1998,

24. Colorado 6-2 164 
causing some to

25. Miami Fla. 4-2 119 
label him a dark-horse for the Heisman week 45-7. The Wildcats were led by quarter­back Keith Smith, who tossed two touchdown passes to Trophy. Going into this weekend, Smith leads the Pac-1 0 in passing efficiency and touchdown passes, ranks second in total offense and third in passing yardage. 

While the Ducks earn their bread and butter on their oft'enstv£1 power and dlverc sity, numerous injuries to their rushers could be the deciding factor in this battle. Leading rusher Reuben Droughns was declared out for this season this week after suffering a broken fibula and torn liga­ments in a loss to UCLA. The situation is made even worse by two injuries to Droughns' two backups for this season. The likely replacement for the position is steady David Lattimer, who had 87 yards on 24 carries against USC last week. 
The winner of this game has a chance at a share of the Pac-10 crown, but second­ranked UCLA looks to give the rest of the conference no quarter. This weekend the Bruins take on hapless Stanford before turning its sights northward to bottom­feeder Oregon State. 
Two top Big East teams collide in this interstate match up. each of which needs a win to keep major bowl hopes alive. 
No. 17 Virginia Tech managed to loosen itself from the spectra surrounding its shocking loss to Temple with a 41-0 thrashing of Alabama-Birmingham. The Hokies manhandled the Blazers, limiting them to 87 yards and eight first downs. Prior to their loss against the Owls. the Hokies were off to their best start in 31 years and were allowing an average of six points a game. 
No. 20 West Virginia limps into Blacksburg, Va. with multiple injuries and a heavy heart after losing a 34-31 nail biter to conference rival Miami. In that game, a late drive by the Mountaineers fell short as a 52-yard field goal attempt in the closing seconds went wide left. 
West Virginia's hopes of winning will likely ride upon All-American Amos Zereoue. The junior running back shook ofT a bruised thigh injury last weekend with a 27-carry, 113-yard game against the Hurricanes. While the Mountaineers have proven themselves to be more than a one-man show, if the Hokies can shut down Zereoue, it might put the West Virginia's chances for a major bowl bid on ice. 


~---~-~-------------------------------------­
page 8 
The Observer •IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 30, 1998 


THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE 
DAME 
vs. 
THE BEARS OF BAYLOR 
Photos by Kevin Dalum, john Daily a11d Patrick Quigley 



