~---------------------~--------------------------~----1 

Thursday, March 5, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 105 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
• BOARD OF GOVERNANCE 
Board approves new student support group 
By ALLISON KOENIG comprised of members and sup­Saint Mary's News Editor porters of the disbanded Alliance, the student group 
In an almost unanimous deci­whose official club status was sion at last night's meeting, denied by College president Saint Mary's College Board of Marilou Eldred last Thursday. (;overnance voted to approve Seven representatives of the the Feminist Collective, a "stu­Feminist Collective presented dent organization which pro­the group's constitution and vides aetive. visible and consis­membership roster. tent support to students eon­"This is about peer support," fronting issues around sexuality said Kelly Curtis, a Feminist in their lives. this includes but is Collective founder, as she not limited to sexual orientation addressed BOG. "The and gender identity," according Committee on Relationships in to the group's mission state­no way includes peer support," ment. she said of the official College 


Thf~ Feminist Collective is committee which Eldred has 

Playing beautiful music ... 

By M. SHANNON RYAN Loux had her first child at age 24 ·News Writer and stayed horne 10 years before she began teaching. In the meantime, she 
Students commanded the flow of con­had five children in five years which versation at yesterday's brown bag was "a very densely populated house­luncheon in Haggar College Center hold." with guest speaker Ann Loux. She did not become a full-time pro­
Loux, Saint Mary's woman of the fessor at Saint Mary's until 1974. and year, offered a variety of choices to this was her first full-time position. speak about, letting the students While beginning her six year tenure decide the topic in the open forum. The tract, Loux raised five teenagers. English professor discussed the role of Loux became a full professor at the women as mothers and workers. College in 1997 at the age of 53, when 
With experience as a biological moth­her kids were grown and out of the er, adoptive mother, professor and household. wife, Loux offered advice to the stu­Now Loux feels that she can fully dents about their futures in mother­concentrate on her profession and pub, hood and the business world. lishing. 
Loux began by asking, "if and when" She was quick to emphasize, howev­concerning the choice of motherhood. er, that this is not true for everyone, 
If a person does desire to become a and more women are opting not to mother, Loux suggested that she do so have children. early in life. She said that this varies "You might not be good at it," Loux between individuals, but she sees it as said. "It's a really challenging job. a beneficial choice. Some people have kids for the wrong 
"Everyone says to wait until your life reasons. Kids are so important and is in order to have kids," Loux said. "I need a lot of attention. You can be a don't think you need to just eat that, great service to the world without hav­but think about it." ing children." 
She argued that if women have chil­Over half of the students in atten­dren in their early 20s, when most dance did not want to have children people's lives are undecided, that they which Loux noted was typical of "the will be able to truly focus on their big trend downward [in the number of careers in their 50s. Then they can women having children] in this coun­truly focus on their lives. try." 
"You can have kids in your 30s, but At the end, Loux offered advice to your kids will be teenagers in your young people in the audience. 50s," Loux explained. "If you have your "Having kids and working full-time is kids in your 20s, your 50s are free. really rough. [Women] should not try You'll know what you're doing and be to be everything at once. [Having kids] a lot better at it." is a serious matter for consideration." 




Student senate listens to proposed amendments 
By TIM LOGAN surer. Another amendment stipulat­Council eo-chairs and the student News Writer ed that the body meet weekly, body president. The group was instead of every two weeks. Cabinet assembled under the constitution to 
Minor adjustments in the role of meetings have been held every discuss student government pro­the Student Union Executive Cabinet week for most of the year, and the gramming. were the focus of discussion at last addition will formalize this process. "If we wanted [the ability to night's Student Senate meeting. The amendment which elkitcd the approve resolutions] we would have 
Student Union Board manager most discussion among senators proposed to make ourselves a voting Andria Wisler and Club was one which states "The body," said Naso, disagreeing with Coordination Council member Leah Executive Cabinet shall ... serve as the implications of becoming a pri­Naso presented a series of amend­the primary advising body to the mary advising body. "The president ments to the Student Union student body president." need not come to us with approval Constitution which are being pro­"That clause suggests that the in mind." posed by the eabinet. senate's resolutions are subject to "If we thought that the Student 
The amendments included formal­the Executive Cabinet's approval," Body president needed our approval ization of several positions on the said Keenan senator Matt Mamak. to act, we would have put that in," cabinet, including required atten­The cabinet is comprised of class echoed Wisler. danee of the Student Body vice­presidents, representatives from Still, some senators were con-president and Student Union trea-SUB and the CCC, the Hall President 
see SENATE I page 3 


page 2 The Observer~ INSIDE Thursday, March 5, 1997 

Professor denies accusations of academic misconduct 
Last wnnkeml. a group of frinnds and I ITHACA, N.Y. 
refused to work on the Dundee projeet depart1~d from this campus known as Notre Almost two years after University without pay. llamn to ~~mbark on an adventuw to a lake administrators closed the books on the Levitsky denies Demas' charges of house~ that a frinnd of mine so gemerously case, the U.S. !louse of Representatives lying and harassment, and said failum donatnd for the wenk-has initiated an investigatiim into accu­to cite Demas in lectures was ram and David Zachry
end. sations of academic misconduct the result of time restraints. Levitsky News Copy Editor
This little trip was brought by Antonia Demas, Ph.D. '95, said he "dons not remember" either 
probably thn last thing I against David Levitsky, professor of Stein refused to comment on the examples that Demas alleges, such as 
should have donn last wnnkend considering, I nutrition. specifics of the case. Demas' accusa­presentations given at a Hotary Club 
havn or had two tnsts and two papers this While the University concluded in an tions against Levitsky-a late addition to meeting and a Hoche~ster Animal 
week, but it was also the onn thing 1nnedcd October 1996 report that Levitsky did her H.esearch Advisory Committe­Nutrition Conl'ercm<~C\ but added that 
most at that point in my life, to get away from not commit academic misconduct, stern from research conducted for both he ortcn credited tlw data as "our 
it all and to forget about life for awhile. three senior professors continue to her dissertation on using classroom work." 
All l ;{ of us crowdnd into a largn van, stand behind Demas' claims of plagia­intervention to introduce low-at foods Professors Bobnrt Ascher and T. 
which was drivem by who I would have to say rism. lying and harassment. into lunches at Trumansburg and a Colin Carnpbnll and professor enwritus 
was eitlwr tlw most drunk cabby I havo evnr Demas said her lawyer plans to file similar study conducted in Dundee. Joan Egner, comprised her initial 
known or just the goofiest. Everybody was so suit against the University within the Her 23 allegations against Levitsky, Hesnarch Advisory Group. 
happy: not one face without a smilcL That is next month. Bepresentative George outlined in a March 1996 "Letter of They said tlw University's report of 
of course until a beer exploded in one of my Brown, (D-Calif.), a ranking minority Particulars" to Peter Stein, dean of fae­the all'air "repr'esents the culmination 
fricmd 's hag. But this unfortuate travesty did member of the !louse Science ulty, include charges of failing to give of an ell'ort by nwmbers of the Cornell 
not dampen our spirits. Committee, is leading the nationwide proper credit in a variety of instances, administration to eover up the all'air," 
Wn arrived at tlw lake house shortly before investigation, which is searching for lying about the role she would play in in a statement issU<~d to Daryl Lund, 
the sun set over Lake Michigan. Chicago was patterns of academic misconduct in tho Dundee study and harassing her dean of the College~ of Agrie~ultun~ and 
dearly visibln on the horizon as I strolled several universities. with calls and e-mails after Demas Lifo Sciences. 
along tlw beach. at least what someone from 
Chicago would consider a beach. l. a native 
Californian, considPred the so-called waves 

• INDIANA UNIVERSITY • MASSAGHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY 
that were pointed out to me as toilnt bowl 
ripples, but I will take what I can get until I 

Professor relates pornography stories Teenagers hack into computer system
go home on Saturday. 

Our first night was mostly uneventful, other BLOOMINGTON. Ind. CAMBHIDGE , Mass. 
than tlw occasional person who drank too While drinking iced coffee during a break on the set of Two teenage boys are suspected of having broken into the 
much, e~xpnrimentml with too many legal a pornographic film, sociologist Kevin Kleppe! was sur­computer system at MIT's Plasma Fusion Center. The boys 
substances (if you'rn from Amsterdam), and prised when an actor came up behind the actress he was are members of a group of haeknrs in nortlwrn California. 
them blnw chunks all over the lloor. But that's speaking with and began having sex with her. known as tho Jimmy Schwantz gang. whkh is believed to 
another storv. Undisturbed, the actress kept talking to Kleppe! as the have broken into four Navy and seven Air Force systems, as 
Saturday was definitely an event in itself. It man worked to maintain his erection for the upcoming well as dozens of less sensitive facilities. Although the com­
was margarita day. and all I eould think sex scene. That was simply one of many bizarre puters contained only unelassilied information, the mass 
about was sitting on a beach next to Jimmy moments for Kleppe!, who spent the summer of 1997 violations have raised concerns about the possibility of elec­
Buffett whiln he's strumming his six string. doing field work in the pornography industry in the tronic sabotage as a means of terrorism. In addition to tlw 
Tlw last thing I was thinking about was California San Fernando Valley. He shared his often eleven military systems. several federal laboratories, 
school. and you know. I think that was OK. humorous stories Tuesday in "Getting In and Staying In: including facilities performing nudear weapons n~soarch, 
I think too many people on this campus are Motivations for Starting and Maintaining a Career in were compromised. Several universities besides MIT. 
wound up so tight that they arc abot!t to Pornography" in Psychology 100 to about 30 people. The including the University of California at Berke~loy, worn also 
e~xplode. Sonwtimes everyone needs to take a program was the third in a lecture series sponsored by invaded by the group. On Wednesday, FBI agents seized 
step back and outside themselves to evaluate the Sex Hesearch Colloquium. Kleppe!, a sociology pro­computers, software, printers, and other equipment from 
who they an~ and where they are headed. fessor at Wittenberg University in Ohio, obtained his doc­the boys' homes, located north of San Francisco. However, , Arn we hnre at this University to purely get torate at IU last year. none of the teens has been arrested. 
an education from books and professors or 

are wn here to learn a little something about • UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA-BIRMINGHAM • PENN STATE UNIVERSITY 
lifn. frinndships, and people~? 

I tend to believe that the latter will carry Student flasher is apprehended ACLU defends internet porn 
me farthnr in life than the former. As some­

one who sp1mds a lot of time in self reflec­
tion. I ran honestly say that I am happy with 
what I have achieved thus far at ND and in 
life. I'll sparn you the list, but rest assured, I 
am proud of it. 
A friend of mine said to me the other day, 
"You just love to get involved. don't you?" My 
response was that it is bettnr than sitting 

around on my butt all day long doing nothing. 
I wonder if most people on this campus can 

say the same'! 
'i'oo many of the people on this campus are 
wasting what could possibly be the best years 

of their lives sitting on a couch, drinking a 
lwer, and playing Nintendo. College is about 

experimentation and getting involved, not 
worshipping the porcelain god found at the 
corners of most dorms at three in the morn­
ing. 
If you are one of the people I am speaking 
to. do yourself a favor. Use spring break to 
think about what you could be doing as 

opposed to what you are not doing, and then 
get involved with something. Aftnr all, what 
are you going to tell your children one day? 
"Yeah kids, I was the Tetris king of my 
dorm." 
The 11iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Ohser11er. 
• TODAV'S STAFF 
News Accent Sean Smith Emmett Malloy David Zachry Jcnn Zawrski Graphics
Chris Shipley Melissa Weber
Sports Production
Anthony Bianco Anthony Bianco
Viewpoint Lab Tech

Mary Margret Nussbaum Kevin Dalum 
Patrick Quigley 

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpl during exam J.nJ VJ.cadon period.~o. The Observer is a me-mber of lhc As!.ocia1cd Prc:~!l. All rC"production riglus are rescrvC"d. 
that occured at a lake house oil' of U.S. 280 on Feb. 28. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Rend Forecast AccuWcalhcr®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday  G 39  26  
Friday  ~  41  25  
Saturday  ~  45  32  
Sunday ,. Monday '"\.....  J'"  ~  ~ ~  46 45  31 30  

q_Q,~9.c6.}.Q{) 1b 6 
Showers T·storms Ram Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy V1a Assoctated Press GraphtcsNet 

BIRMINGHAM, Ala. STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 
Police arrested a UAB student March 2 in connection with Hound three in the battle to regulate tlw Internet has two recent indecent exposure sightings in the Center Point begun. In one corner stands the tag team of two bills and Shelby County areas. The suspect, Erin Kahl, was making their way through Congress. One would punish arrested in her dormitory in Blazer Hall. The Jefferson distributors of World Wide Web sites containing "inde­County sheriffs department, Birmingham police and UAB cent" information with a fine and a jail semtence, while police, armed with a search warrant, were searching Kahl's another would restrict funds to schools that do not filter room when she returned. apparently from jogging. The out such materials in thnir computers. In tlw other cor­investigators found items such as a large black trench coat, ner stands the American Civil Liberties Union, hoping to a Marx brother's type disguise, a little megaphone, and a knock down the lc~gislation once again, just as it did to Star Wars glow in the dark light saber that had been associ­the Communications Decency Act and a Virginia ated with the suspect. Jefferson County sheriff Jim Internet pornography law in court. Yet the battle contin­Woodward said Kahl was arrested in connection with the ues, as legislators try to define the boundaries of what two !lashings, and could possibly be linked to others. The the First Amendment means to the new medium, strug­actual charge against Kahl is in two different counties­gling with how to regulate it most effectively. "This is a Shelby and Jefferson. Kahl was charged with one count of typical situation." said Clay Calvert, assistant professor indecent exposure and· one count of disturbing the peace in of communications. lie said Congress will continue pass­Shelby County in connection with a skinny dipping-incident ing bills until they find one that does not restrict liber­
ties too much. 

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, March 5. 


~ 
Lines separate high temperature zones tor the day. 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
Q 1998 AccuWealher, Inc. 
Ptessure 
H L IT] fSSl ~ 0 . [ZJ § {) ~ u 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY 
Vts Auocratrtd Preas 
Anaheim  66  47  Chicago  38  26  Omaha  36  24  
Austin  82  56  Cincinnati  44  32  Panama City  68  59  
Bloomington  44  32  Cleveland  38  27  Philadelphia  48  30  
Boston  42  30  Jackson  55  45  Salem  48  28  
Buffalo  33  20  Kiernicki  80  61  Youngstown  37  24  

-

Thursday, March 5, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
• = 

Week to hig.h.light.cul~,···· 
By SHANNON·GRADY 
News Writer 
The 1998 Human Rights and Cultural DiversityWeekwHl begin on Monday, Marchl6 arid run through Sunday, March 22. 
There are events every night, ranging from a lecture titl~d "Classrooms in Uving Color; Will the Students Without Color Please Stand Upl" to a Cultw·aJ Extravaganza featuring the cui­sine and heritage of Notre Dame students. The week will culmi· nate in a Diversity Day Mass held on Sunday. 
Brother Bonaventure Scully, rector of Keenan Hall, believes that the goal of the week is to "try to provide opportunities for people to· see their differences and appreciate them." 
nf\T.Wf\f\n fiU):iS~~lfan . ..· .. 
Am,ArirJI.n •vu~.....a.pJaye 1ving every I've .. in They told him and we hope·that . about gangs they had to deal dorms involved with at home. and the idea of higher attendance such a life was so foreignto him "l applaud thea.u,,u'"'•'"u·•~ that be decided he needed to office for recruiting learn more about it -thus, the diverse student body; Human Rights and <:;ultural hav.l) a long w to Diversity Week was conceive& biggest progress 

At first. the eventwas held by he made in numbe only Keenan, but soon after; understanding, ,,..,.,,."t""'"o. Keenan invited its sister dorm, appreciation." . .. . .. •. Lewis, to join in the project. "There must be more open More dorms were added:to the dialogue on campus," he added. 

See news happening? Call The Observer 
8 pm, washington hall 
BOOK SEARCH

•Used, rare and out-of-print 
0 t r e m e
dn 
books
I
• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationall•;-circulated ad 



sym ~rch<?srr~Y 
• Success rate of 50%
daniel stowe, conductor 
• Time Required: 2 months 

ERASMUS BOOKS 
Mendelssohn, Violin Concerto in E Minor 
Open noon to six 
Karyn Blake, violin 
Tuesday through Sunday 
1998 Concerto Competition Winner 
Mozart, Symphony No. 40 in G Minor, K. 550 
. 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444
presented by the university of n~tre dame department of music 
The concert is free and open to the public. 
For more information, call the music deportment at 631~6201. 
Announcing the 1998 Annual Awards of the Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel Scholarship 


Thanks to a generous gift from the Albert Ravarino family, the Italian Studies Program is 
pleased to announce the 1998 annual competition for travel in support of summer 
research and foreign study in Italy. Grants will be made in amounts not to exceed $3,000, and will not normally cover all expenses. Notre Dame graduate and undergradu­ate students who are planning to pursue research or a formal program of summer study 
in Italy are invited to apply. Students must have completed at least one year of Italian 
language. The course work will normally be in Italian; will involve the study of Italian 
language, literature, and culture; and must be applicable to a student's degree program at the University of Notre Dame. 
Recommended programs for foreign study include, but are not limited to: Loyola University in Rome, Boston University in Padua, UCLA in Pisa, Miami University in Urbino, Columbia University in Scandiano. Interested students are encouraged to consult the materials on Italian foreign study in the Department of Romance Languages, 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall. 
Students are invited to submit a letter which should include: 
1) an explanation of how the proposed research or foreign study will enhance their degree program at Notre Dame 
2) a personal statement indicating their background, interests, and long-term goals 
3) a description of the research project or the program they intend to follow 
4) a budget indicating the costs involved 
5) the names of two references 
Albert Ravarino Italian Studies Travel 

Application deadline: 
Scholarship Program in Italian Studies 343 O'Shaughnessy Hall
Wednesday, March 25, 1998 
University of Notre Dame 


AT'I'I~N1'J()N AR1'S & Ll~1"l'I~IlS SI~NIORS 
If you plan to graduate in May 1998, please check to see if your name is on the list posted on the wall outside 101 O'Shaughnessy. Also, please check to see if the information is as you expect it to be on your FINAL TRANSCRIPT. If it is not, please check with one of the advisors in 101 O'Shag AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. 
to hear what students are say­ing."



Senate 
A solution, removing "prima­
continued from page 1 ry" from the clause, was pro­posed by Dillon senator Pat Coyle. This idea will be consid­
cerned that programming 
ered at the next Executive
would be overly emphasized in Cabinet meeting. 
the president's job description. 
· In other senate news:
"Making it the 'primary' 
0 The senate approved new
advising body presupposes that members of the SUB executivethe president's primary interest board for the 98-99 year. Ryanshould be programming," said Stecz will take over as boardMorrissey senator Matt Szabo. 
manager: Lizzie Brady will beBecause of its broad makeup, director of programming; Kevin "the Executive Cabinet repre­Kileen will step in as chief con­sents the whole student body, troller: Ross Kerr will serve as
maybe even better than the 
director of relations; and RyanSenate," observed Chief of Staff Mason will be appointed direc-.
Mary Gillard, who sits on the tor of creativity. 
Cabinet. "It's one more avenue 
Notre Dame to host professional chorus 
By SARAH J. HILTZ 
Associate News Editor 
The Notre Dame music department has always been committed to giving quality per­formances, and this month they have brought in nationally renowned figures to help them in their quest for excellence. 
On Sunday, March 15, the pro­fessional group Ponerium will give a concert titled "Sacred A Cappella Music of the High Renaissance," a collection of Latin motets originally sung in the Sistine Chapel in the16th century. 
The music, collected from Vatican manuscripts, was per­formed during the pontificates of Julius II, Leo X and Clement VII, who were the first three out of seven popes to assign Michelangelo the task of trans­forming the Vatican into a Renaissance showcase, said Lisa Eberhardt, director of publicity in the music department. 
The founder and director of Ponerium is Alexander Blachly, associate professor of music at Notre Dame. Blachly has been active in early music as a per­former and scholar for the past 25 years, and was named as Notre Dame's director of choral music in 1993. 
His work with Pomerium has received much critical acclaim; John Rockwell of the New York Times referred to the group as "one of the finest early-music ensembles in the country, and perhaps the world." 
The concert will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on March 15, and admission is free. 
= 

r 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 5, 1998 
Collective 
continued from page 1 
gain from one another." 
A BOG member asked the three freshmen supporting the group why they felt it was a necessary addition to campus. 
"I know change, and things take time," Sherer said. "We need something right now. If this gets approved. wn will bn thorn for studnnts starting tomorrow morning." 
IH>(; member Melony Smith asked the Feminist Collective representatives what stops them from assembling as a group in their residence hall rooms and assembling an infor­mal peer support network. 
"The problem is that it takes I a long time) to find people to be a supportive group." Curtis said. "There is a struggle in being a first and second-year gay student that is really isolat­ing. and you're also dealing with so many other issues such as being a college student and lmeoming an adult." 
The Alliance brought their constitution to the Board of Governance almost exactly one year ago. BOG formed a sub­committee to examine the implications or and investigate the eollegn climate surrounding 
Gulf Shores/Orange Beach 






I•QI~I
BeadlflontHotel 
All rooms equipped with microwave & . refrigerator. Indoor pooL FREE continental breakfast. 
AakAbout 
Student Ratesl 

1-BOD-2374169 
the potential approval of the 
dub. 
After four weeks of research and debate, the Board of Governance voted 14-3 to approve The Alliance. A few weeks later, College president emeritus William Hickey deferred The Alliance's club status, a right reserved by the president in all club establish­ments, and passed the ultimate decision on what should become of the group to incom­ing College president Eldred. 
In last night's vote, 16 Board of Governance members chose to ollicially recognize the group, one votnd against granting club status, and one person abstained. 
"The importance behind this club is that it offers peer sup­port," said student body presi­dent Nikki Milos, who by stu­dent governmnnt constitution definition is not allowed to votn in Board of Governance deci­sions. "The student body has stressed that this part of sexual Pducation is vital." 
''I'm really pleased with the Feminist Collective's initia­tives," said Sarah Siefert, stu­dent body prosident-nlect. ''I'm also impressed with the timely reaction of the Board of Governance ... the uuteome is really one of meeting nnnds of students on campus." 
''I'm really excited about BOG's decision because it shows that the students of the college support this issue," Curtis said. 
"It feels awesome. It feels great to see a women's group at a women's college," said McKeough of the decision. ''I'm very proud of the women on BOG; they peered through all of the distractions and distortions of the issue and saw what really needed to be done." 
Milos opened last night's meeting with a brief summary and update 'of the happenings regarding The Alliance in the past week. After clarifying sev­eral questions and confusion regarding the occurrences, as well as student government policies and objectives, the board decided to not issue an oflicial group statement. 
Coleman passed a motion to encourage each BOG member to submit a personal letter to Eldred with feedback on the decision issues surrounding The Alliance. 
Discussion then centered on how the Board of Governance could be actively involved in the issue. 
After several minutes of debate, it was determined that the BOG could and should appoint students to the Committee on Helationships, as well as establish a standing 

The Netherlands: Biking Paradise for Students! Discover this quaint European country low-budget on bike. 
Several self-guiding routes, including airfare, accon:modations, bike rental, maps, route description and some meals from 7 days 
for $899 p.p. 
More information? 

Call Eurotraii/Pathfinders: 
123 Main Place, Zeeland MI 49464 



Phone# (616) 772-4334 
CELEBRATED EVENTS 
Comprehensive Wedding Coordinating and Party Planning 
CYNTHIA BASKER 302 East Donaldson Avenue Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 219 258-5482 
Call o1· write 



What are your plans after graduation? 

~===~ 
Ever consider a year of 

SERVICE? 
Organization:The Good Shepherd Volunteers Opportunities: neighborhood centers, residences for at-risk inner-city youth, alternative schools, alternative schools, assistance programs for homeless and/or undocumented women and families. The Focus: Community, sprituality, social justice, and simple living. Interested? Interviews available March 19th and 20th. Contact Cara Happel at 1-888-6GSV, x717. or email Goodshepvol@aol.com to set up a time. 
Good Shepherd Volunteers-337 E.17th St.-New York, NY 10003 

commission on the board to approach women's issues. 
The board unanimously approved the addition of a "women's issues" chair, which would become effective as soon as a framework of goals and responsibilities could be estab­lished. 
Milos mandated that Siefert and Midden have a job descrip­lion written for the women's issues commissioner by the board's next meeting on Mareh 18. 
The assignment of that chair coincides with Sie1'11l't and Midden's upeoming takeover of student government and selec­tion of students to fulfill the vacated Board of Governance positions. 

Annual Archbishop Romero Lecture 
Anna Peterson. University ofFlorida 
"Progressive Catholicism in El Salvador during the Civil War and Today" 8:00p.m. 
Thursday, March 19 Distinguished Lecture Series on Democracy and Development 
James C. Scott, Yale University 
"Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed" 4:15p.m. 
Events will be held in the Hesbw-gh Center Auditorium 
The William and Katherine Devers Program in Dante Studies 
in conjunction with the Medieval Institute 
presents: . 

DANTE IN FLORENCE: A Reading ofthe Vita Nuova 
with Professor Zygmunt Baranski University of Reading (U.K.) 
Introductory Lecture and Reception Tuesday, March 1 7 --4:45pm Department of Special Collections, 1 02 Hesburgh Library ........ Free and open to the public ........ 
1-Credit MiniCourse 
Introductory lecture plus seminar meetings on March 18, 19, 23,24 from 7-9:30pm. Open to undergrads and grads. To register contact the Devers Program in Dante Studies at 631-5610. 

Thursday, March 5, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WonlO rJEWS BRIEFS Collins to command shuttle 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 

EilePn Collins is about to become the first woman in 37 years of 
U.S. spacenight to com­mand a mission. President Clinton and Hillary Hodham Clinton will announce the deci­sion in a White Ilouse 


ceremony on Thursday. Collins The 41-year-old Air Force lieutenant colonel is already the nation's first female space shuttle pilot, but that's the sec­ond-in-command job during a mission, behind the commander. Ever since she returnnd from her second shuttle mission last May, space buffs wondered when she would be assigned the top flying job. White House spokesman Mike McCurry said that Clinton had nothing to do with Collins' promotion and that NASA alone made the decision. 
Court rules same-sex harassment illegal 
WASIIlNGTON. 

Sexual harassment at work can be illegal evpn when the offender and victim are the same S(1X. the Supreme Court said Wednesday in a decision that r.ould touch virtually every American workplace. In voting unanimously to rnvivn a Louisiana lawsuit that has been closely watched by the nation's employers and gay-rights groups, the court said same­sex harassment can violate a federal anti-dis­crimination law. ·In that lawsuit, a man alleged he was sexually harassed by three othnr mnn while working on a Gulf of Mexico oil rig. Wednnsday's decision provided impor­tant new guidelines for resolving sex-harass­ment daims. but plenty of questions remain about the lngality of certain conduct in specif­ic nmploymr,nt settings. "We're very pleased with the common sense standard the court adopted," said Ann Reesman. a lawyer for the Equal Employment Advisory Council. 
Blackout may last 10 weeks 
AUCKLAND, New Zealand 

Efforts to restore power to New Zealand's largest city failed again Wednesday, forcing energy ol'ficials to predict that downtown Auckland may suffer through a blackout for 10 more wneks. Merchants estimate they are los­ing $60 million a week as a result of the fail­ure of four power cables supplying electricity to Auckland from a hydroelectric plant south of the city. Two cables repaired by city utility Mercury Energy failed when tested Wednesday, the 12th day of a power outage. It will take 10 weeks to run a new cable into the downtown area. "I said 10 days ago it was a dark time-it is much darker now," Mercury Energy chief executive Wayne Gilbert said. 

''dfMI,fMJiJIM.­
AMEX:Dow 709.18 
}ONES +0.21 
Nasdaq:-45.59 1759.70 

+2.56 
NYSE: 
544.46 
-2.43 
S&P 500: 


Composite1047.33 Volume:8539.24 -4.69 642,467,081 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
!:aJMea~Y IlktU~B "t'iiCttAtHii; 1 Gan~ eau;~ 
FAMILY STEAKHOUSE RYFLP 407.71 1.65 2.06 GEN MAGIC GMGC 188.89 4.25 6.50 SWISHER INTL-WTS SWHWE 65.00 0.81 2.06 ALTERS SOFTWARE ALTS 5J.OO 0.87 2.62 ECLIPSE SURGICAL ESTI 47.75 3.31 10.25 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
ARGENT CAP CORP ACCT 32.29 0.96 2.03 WELLINGTON PROP WLPT 21.88 1.75 6.25 INDUS HLDGS-WTB IHIIZ 21.88 0.87 3.12 MENDOCINO BREWING MBA 21.74 0.62 2.25 HEALTHCOR HLDGS HCOR 19.23 0.46 1.96 

House op_ens door for Puerto Rico 
AsSOCIATED PRESS 
WASIIINGTON 

With the slimmest of margins, the House voted Wednesday night to give Puerto Rico what could be its best chance in 100 years of becoming the 51st State. 
After rejecting an effort by opponents to scuttle the bill with an English-only provision, the House voted 209-208 to hold a special referendum in Puerto Rico this year, the 100th anniversary of Puerto Rico becoming a U.S. territory. 
A cheer went up on the House floor and in the galleries as the gavel went down, breaking several tense minutes as the vote tally moved back and forth between approval and disapproval. 
President Clinton, in a statement after the vote, called it "a victory for democracy and against exclusion." He praised the bill, saying it "does not impose onerous, unworkable, unprece­dented, or unconstitutional language requirements on the citizens of Puerto Rico." 
The referendum. if approved by the Senate. would give Puerto Hicans three choices: continued commonwealth sta­tus, statehood or independence. 
The bill had the strong backing of Clinton and both GOP and Democratic House leaders. All but 43 Republicans voted against it and all but 31 Democrats voted for it. 
A similar measure is pending in the Senate, where supporters were expect­ed to push for a prompt vote. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott. R-Miss., however, has made no commitment on the measure. 
The plan mandated in the bill differs from past nonbinding referendums for Puerto Rico in setting a clear course. to a status change in 10 years, based on the voters' choice. Congressional approval and further votes by Puerto Ricans would be required before any final change in status, however. 
During more than 11 hours of debate, the House voted 265-153 for an amendment that would subject Puerto Rico, if it becomes a state, to the same language requirements of any other state. The United States has no official language. 
That vote scuttled an amendment 
that would have declared English the 
only language for government, impos­
ing special requirement on Spanish­
speaking Puerto Rico. Non-Puerto 
Rican House members opposed to 
statehood had led the English-only 
drive, which sparked a fiery debate. 
The House also rejected an effort by Rep. Jose Serrano, D-N.Y., to allow Puerto Ricans now living in the 50 
AsSOCIATED PRESS ·· MIAMlq 
Plunging city government i11to chaosOa judge Wednesday ordered Mia,mito hold a ne:w mayoral election, saying widespread absentee-b.I}.Ilot 
fraud played a role in Xavier Suarez's victortlast falL 
The evidence included at least one dead voter casting a ballot, forged sig­natures, stolen ballots and people migrating to the cityjust to vote. 
The ruling did not say who will hold the office until the new election is held in 60 days, leaving Suarez and the man he ousted, Joe Carollo, on the steps of the courthouse, each claiming to be mayorof this city of 37 5,000, 
Askc;Jd to clarify ~ho holds the jo}), 

states to vote in the special referen­
dum. 

Puerto Ricans themselves are split 
over the need fot a plebiscite and the 
statehood issue. However, two-thirds of 
the commonwealth's elected officials 
support statehood, according to Puerto 
Hican Senate President Charles 
Rodriguez. Statehood trailed common­
wealth status in a close 1993 vote, with 
less than five percent opting for inde­
pendence. 

Forces advocating statehood cast the 
issue as a simple matter of "self-deter­
mination" for 3.8 million American citi­
zens who have no voting representa­
tion in Congress. Puerto Ricans are U.S. 
citizens but cannot vote in presidential 
elections and pay no federal income 
Circuit 
the 
. order~ 

In his . g; . . .. ·•···•·• .•..•. . "a pat .. of fraudulent, intention& and criminal conduct": · ·· gen~-ral election Noy.
4. Ho · ··· ··· that · ······ isnQ ofor tiCipaty~ ili: the u. .. . ..··.• 
Suarez's brieftenure in Miami's 
new position of "strong mayor," With 
enhan<;<ed executive powers and a 
salart(if.$97,5QO,i..J:ia:~ been stormy, 
and · rratic~ hypt:Jractive style .h{l$ 
earned im the nicknames Hurricane 
Suarez and Mayor Loco. 
Suarez, a 48-year-old lawyer who 
was mayor from 1985 to 1993, fired 
num~~ous fity eJP;plpye~s and: na:J:n~g 
his O'\<VI! ~llie.s to. cfpyjobs. He ch11,l~ tax. 

"Do you cherish the principles of our democracy enough to dismantle 100 years of colonialism and extend the right of full self-determination to the 
U.S. citizens of Puerto Rico?" chal­lenged Puerto Rico's non-voting Democratic member of Congress, Rep. Carlos Romero Barcelo, a former pro­statehood governor. 
But the English-only provision sparked the most intense debate. 
"To make English our official lan­guage," said Hep. Gene Green, D­Texas, "limits our nation." Others argued that the English-only amend­ment would impose requirements on Puerto Ricans that are not imposed on other citizens. 
·~ . . 
.... 

lenged 11,state oversight board's role, 
helpirlg phe city ont(>f a $68 milljop; 
· shortfrulJ}lat he clajme~ was imagi;; nary. 
·Suarez and Carollo, a 42-year-old. businessman, were. th(l top two vote~ getters inJhe ex.tre.mely clqse gene_r;:~J ·· election #ii" compete~Jil a runoff.t@§ ... 
days later: Suarez woo/ea.sily. .....~ .· Carollo said the decision to void the Nov.. 4 election meant Suarez never legally got power. 
"W() proved that tQ.ese ele.ctions were wori. with massive. ahsentee hal~ lot fraud," Carollo said. "We are not going to be the laughingstock of the 
nation." 

Suarez's lawyer said his client was still in power since the judge did n(lt declare Carollo the winner. ·· · 

........
-------------------~--------------~--~-------~~~-------~~-~--~ -------­
page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 5, 1997 
Calendar of Events 
Fridays during Lent. 7:15 om. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Stations of the Cross Music Ministry: March 6 Schola March 13 Cantor /Organ 

Friday-Saturday. March 20-21 Retreat for Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Undergraduates and Friends For information, please contact: Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry (1-5242 or katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu); Mark at 4­1933 (mark.f.massoud.1@nd.edu) or Alyssa at 4-1884 (alyssa.l.hellrung.5@nd.edu). 
Sunday. March 22 Does your relationship have a future? Should your relationship have a future? Campus Ministry will offer the program "What's The Future of This Relationship?," an opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in sig­nificant relationships. For more informa­tion, or to register for the program. Call 1­5242 for Chris Etzel, John or Sylvia Dillon. 
Friday-Saturday. March 27-28. St. Joe Hall Freshmen Retreat for residents of Carroll;: Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford and Welsh Family. 
In proeress. LaFortune Box Office Free tickets are now available for the March 21st NBC taping of "Easter at Notre Dame • ., This broadcast will be aired nation­ally on Easter Sunday and will involve the Folk Choir and Notre Dame students. 
Second Sunday of Lent 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, March 7 
5:00p.m. Rev. Edward A. Malloy, C.S.C. 
Sunday, March 8 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Charles Gordon, C.S.C. 11:45'a.m. Rev. Charles Gordon, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings 1st Reading Genesis 15:5-12, 
17-18 2nd Reading Philippians 3:17-4:1 Gospel Luke 9:28-36 
WHAT'S THE FUTURE OF THIS RELATIONSHIP? 
Chris Etzel and Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
They were both seniors. They had dated for almost two 
years. Graduation was looming in their future. They both were 
interviewing for jobs. They felt that this relationship was special; 
they were serious about each other. But they just weren't sure what 
the next step was. Should they look for jobs in the same city or 
should they test the relationship with some distance? Should they 
get engaged now or should they work for a year or two first and 
establish some career goals? 
They came into the Campus Ministry Office hoping for some 
information. Perhaps we had a compatibility test they might take to 
see if they were truly meant for each other. Did we have any articles 
they might read? Did we have any advice on what they should do? 
This was a new twist. Though we had offered programs for 
engaged couples for many years, we had not really thought about 
this category of couple; what should we call them? "Serious but not 
yet committed?" "Pre-engaged?" We were greatly impressed that a 
couple would so seriously question their future as to come to our 
office for advice. Yet a program for the engaged would not be 
appropriate for this couple. They were still exploring their 
relationship -the decision was not yet made; and the decision might . eventually be to not continue the relationship. What could we do for couples like these? After much discussion we focused on some of the issues and 
questions facing couples in significant relationships: 
-how can we determine if we're really ready for marriage? 
-should we try to find jobs or graduate schools that are in the 
same city? 
-how will a long distance relationship affect us? 

-how can you express your true feelings without pressuring 
for commitment? 

-how will the demands of career I graduate school affect our 
relationship? 

-how might differences in our families of origin affect our 
relationship? 
-how can we communicate better? 

After identifying the issues we put together a program and 
called it "What's the Future of this Relationship?" It includes some 
presentations on the stages of relationships and decision-making. 
While we were able to avoid "compatibility tests", we did include a 
marriage expectations quiz. There is time for answering questions 
and a lot of time for discussing answers with your partner. There is 
a discussion period for questions. There is a folder of articles for 
additional information and reflection. 
What most couples seemed to enjoy about the program was 
the time and the opportunity to discuss their relationship, especially 
areas or topics they hadn't considered before. 
If you are in a significant relationship and are asking the 
kinds of questions listed above perhaps you'd like to attend the pro­
gram this semester. The details are as follows: 
"What's the Future of this Relationship?" Sunday, March 22, 1998 1:00 to 5:00p.m. Notre Dame Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
There is no cost but pre-registration is required. Registration papers can be obtained in both Campus Ministry Offices (Library Concourse and Badin Hall). Registration deadline is Friday, March 20, 1998. The program is limited to 25 couples. There is no cost for the program. If you have any questions, please call Chris Etzel, Sylvia or John Dillon at 631-5242. 
0MPUS 


MINISTRY 


-~--~ -~-----~-----------~-~-------~ 




VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, March 5, 1998 page 7 
The Observer i~ the indcpcndenr newspaper published by rhe swdents of rhe Universiry of Notre Dame dn Lac and S;\inr M~ry' s Cotlege. It docs not neccssouily reflect the policies of rlu: administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as .tccurarely and objectively as possible. U~signed editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Edicor-in-Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Ediwr, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor. Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries. lecrer~ and Inside Columns present the views of the authors, and nor neces­'>anly those ofThe Ob~crvc:r. Viewpoiru space is available mall members of the Notre Dame/Saim Mary's commun1ry and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lerters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Phoro  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4 543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Sail\t Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
[)ay Ediror/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
( ~cnclilr Information  6.~1-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• EDITilRIAL 
Eldred Misses the Point 
In denying the application for official club status by The Alliance of Lesbian. Bisexual, Straight and Questioning Women of Saint Mary's College, Marilou Eldred ignored the voice of the students and denied them any possibility for a comfortable, safe environment with their peers. 
The Board of Governance requested official club status for The Alliance last year because board members believed the students involved· in the club had the maturity and intelligence to carry on reasoned discussions about the topic of sexuality. The Faculty Assembly agreed, passing ares­olution in support of the club's constitution. But Eldred ignored both of these important representative bodies and made a decision contrary to the wishes of a majority of the College that she is supposed to govern. 
In her live-point refusal of The Alliance constitution, Eldred only briefly clung to Catholic doctrine; instead, she essental!y labeled the group a redundancy. While it may be good to avoid having two policy-making bodies overlap in dutiP-s, what harm comes from allowing students a multitude of possible support groups or at least one run by students, for studPnts'? 
Her overriding concern is that the students will identify the five points of The Alliance constitution with only that group. But since, as she points out, many of their points overlap with those of other groups on campus, groups that have been established for years, there is not much danger of studenl'l confusing these goals with The Alliance alone. 
As her first point, Eldred claims that the "safe emiornment" sought by members of The Alliance can be found in the College itself. If students felt safe enough to address these topics in the current College environ­ment, they would not have attempted to form a group in the first place. 
She also claims that students can go to Campus Ministry or Counseling and Career Development. It seems both Saint Mary's and 'Notre Dame feel the need to send anyone who asserl'> their homosexuality to a priest or a psychologist why, when both campuses consist of intellgent minds capable of aiding their peers in key decisionS or struggles. such as with one's sexuality. 
Eldred's second point attributes the education of the campus to Health Service, lectures and forums. While those are effective tools to dissemi­nate information about sexuality, they do not necessarily preclude a group, the main purpose of which would be to foster discussion between students and faculty. 
She addresses The Alliance's idea of creating an open forum by saying that the College has had such a forum at which three ideas were dis­cussed for future topics. The point that The Alliance was trying to make was not that the Saint Mary's community needs one particl1htr forum, or even three l'orums. The club members·were envisioning a permanent, ongoing forum that is provided by a regular meeting, or by guest speak­ers chosen and invited by the students themselves, rather than those deemHd acceptable by the administration. 
President Eldred's answer for the College is to make the Committee on Helationships a standing committee, one which will expand to assume responsibility for The Alliance's goals and which will report directly to her. The problom with this proposal is that it removes an overwhelming student voice from a nec.essarily student concern. 
•. Od"ESBW./ GARRY TRUDEAU 
THE OBSERVER 

NoTRE DAME 0HICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OHICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 

Editor-in,Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assist~nt Managing Editor 
Dan Cichalski News Editor ............................ Heather Cocks Advertising Manager .............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor ....................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ..................... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................. Mike Day Production Manager. ........................ Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... . ............... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ...................... ~Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller~ ············~····· ............Kyle Carlin 
Photo Editor ... . ..... Katie Kroener 


• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Alliance Shows Immaturity 
Does immaturity rule at Saint Mary's College? Those that live by rumor and stereotype would answer "yes." In the case of The Alliance, I am ashamed at times to walk down the halls of Le Mans and see thoughtless desecration of other clubs' signs and on the statue of Jesus at tlfe end of 3 Annex. President Eldred DID NOT take away the voice of the students. Unfortunately, it is the estranged minority whose voice is heard. If anyc thing, she has encouraged students to be open about themselves and their beliefs. Her door is always open to the students and she is not just another stranger in the crowd. She has NOT denied a voice to anyone, especially since she invited students to her own home to discuss the issue. If The Alliance is to aecuse anyone of tak­ing away a voice, they need to point their fingers back at themselves. By the uproar they have cre­ated and the markings on numerous parts of campus they are trying desperately to eover up the voiee of the Church. Just as I'm upset that all the childish graffiti is appearing all over campus (even on building markings and sidewalks), I believe it is horrible that more people aren't standing up for what their religion teaches. In Romans 1 :26-27, it states that "beeause of this [worshiping the created], -God gave them over to shameful lusts. Even their women ehanged nat­ural relations for unnatural ones. In the same way the men also abandoned natural relations with women and were inflamed with lust for one another. Men committed indecent acts with other men, and received in themselves the due penalty for their perversion." Beeause of this, I have to applaud President Eldred for her strength in the matter. It is her job to uphold the foundation of the college and that is the Catholie Chureh. All women at Saint Mary's College have chosen to attend mainly on the basis that it is grounded in Christian belief's. As a Christian, I do not deny or condemn those in support of The Alliance, but I cannot follow what leads me astray from my God. 
Heather Aislynn Sklenar Freshman, Le Mans Hall March <1,1998 

Eldred Stands Tall 
The other day, in covering the story about The Alliance at Saint Mary's College, The Observer printed an interesting photo­graph in which a young woman appeared with a piece of tape over her mouth. She was protesting the decision of Sairrt Mary's president Marilou Eldred not to grant The Alliance recognition as an official student organization. 
What is interesting is that the students who opposed Eldred's decision seem to think that they have been denied their rights to freedom of speeeh or expression or whatever. The faet is, though, that no one has been "silenced" or denied her rights at Saint Mary's. Students are perfect­ly free to hold and express their opinions. 
The real rights in question here are not those of the students, but those of the Catholic Chureh. It is absurd to demand that Saint Mary's, a Catholic college, give its recognition and tacit approval to an organization which suggests that homosex­ual activity is legitimate. The Church, adhering to God's natural law, clearly teaches that it is not. 
No one can reasonably expect an institu­tion to approve of things that it opposes. After all, no one would expect Brandeis University, a Jewish institution, to hold classes on high holy days, or to recognize a Nazi Students Organization. 
Members of the Alliance can thus hardly claim to be oppressed. The group ought to get over its martyr complex. 
Furthermore, President Eldred ought to be congratulated for standing firm in the face of pressure to grant recognition to the Alliance. The administrators at many other Catholic colleges and universities in this country have not had her backbone. 
Emil ]. Kiehne Notre Dame Law School March 4, 1998 

• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"parting is all we know of heaven/ And all we need of hell." 
-Emily Dickinson 

F--~ ~---------~----------~-~ 
-p 
VIEWPOINT. 
page 8 Thursday, March 5, 1998 
• POSTCARDS FROM MEXICO 
Beware! The Rodeo 
Clown is Coming! 
Something wicked your way comes. 

More deadly than the Electric Slide, far more annoy­ing than the Macarena, Mexico is preparing a frontal 
attack on the rest of the world that will commence with
Bernadette 
a catchy little song called "The Rodeo Clown." Sung (screeched, actually) by Caballo Bayo, "EI

Pampuch 
Payaso del Rodeo" hit Mexican discoteques several 
months ago and we have been caught iri stampedes of 
stomping feet down here ever since. 
The unique thing about "El Payaso del Rodeo" is that 
-----=========----it has become the biggest country-to-mainstream hit 
since "Achy Bn~aky Heart." What is so bloodchillingly scary is that "Achy Breaky Heart" has been 
resurrected from a well-deserved death in the Deep South of the United States and has come back 
to life in Mexico City. 
The horror began sometime last year upon entering "Medusa's," arguably the hippest techno­
spot in all the metropolitan area. I had finally escaped South Bend. finally left the Midwest and its 
sawdust-on-the-floor, feet-sticking-to-the-beer-spills atmosphere of the culturally sucky bars, the 
musieal rPpertoire of Senior Bar and its "YMCA" and "Come On Eileen" repeated up to three times 
in the sam11 night ... I had found salvation in cage-dancing, in cross-dressing bar dancers adorned 
in pink feathers and gold paint and a single, high-pitched techno beat throbbing for hours on end. 
I met two ex-boyfriends in Medusa's, fine young men with that certain haughty, intellectual air 
who frequented the place and sipped whiskey and brandy instead of beer and beer and warm 
beer and more beer. They did not wear flannel, never wore baseball caps, and did not own a pair 
of khaki pants. 
All of a sudden, the music stopped 
throbbing and started whining ... 
Country musie? Here? Someone 
grabbed my hand, someone in an 
Armani suit nonetheless, and dragged 
me onto the dancB floor. 
Twang. Twaang. Twaang. "No 
rompes mas/ rni pobre corazon ... " the 
tune, so familiar; the dancers. so zom­
bie-like. And so it b1~gan, with me get­
ting stepped on by tho hundred people 
around me and being forced against 
my will to country line dance to "Aehy 
Bmaky I leart" sung in Spanish. The 
steps were "The Electric Slide," only 
worse. 
I returned to the U.S. stunned. No 
one beli1w1~d me. One of my bosses 
accused me of lying. "No one would be 
stupid enough to line-danee to that 
outside of Indiana," he said. 
I tried to forget, and ligurod it would go away. 
Luck is fickle, and "Achy Breaky !teart" was back with reinforcements last falL This time I was in Acapuko, thinking I had escaped the eontamina­tion of Mexico City for the weekend and would finally have a chanee to breathe dean air. But no-in the middle of th1~ best techno dub for miles around. the music stopped and the twanging started again. 
My heart stopped, I held my breath and waitt~d for it to pass. it was not the same music! It was not "Achy Breaky lloart!" What ehange of luck! What ecstasy! 
I 
No, it was worse. It was "The Hodeo I -I
I . 
Clown." 
The song is like "Achy Breaky lleart" on crack. It starts slowly, calm­ly, and the dance is so Pasy at first that the Macarnna seems to n~quire · an oxcess of grac1~ and style. 
Skipping. That's what the whole danco consists of ... skipping. you will know that the U.S. has been invaded by "The Hodeo Clown" when you hear something that sounds like your basic, average country song and then all of a sud­den you notiet~ that it is being sung in Spanish and everyone is skipping. 
Some years ago, the Potato I louse on Cleveland Hoad was taken over by six or seven of my Tnjano friends and a few lef'tovers from California and renamed the J'apa I louse, a stronghold of Latin music when• meringue and Solena reigned supreme. At the height of its popularity; the liv­ing room was so crowdnd that thern was barely room to dance when the Macarena started. Of course, that was in I 994. When the Ma1:arena wave passed, the Potato House wisely eut the music short. 
I think that ifthn Papa House was still here today, they would have the smarts to boycott 'The Hodno Clown." 
It is a dang~~rous, dangerous danee. I lost a heel in a dub in Cuernavaca. I lost my balance in Barba Azul. I was stPppPd on in Hodno Santa Fe; I stepped on some poor girl in Meneo. I watched a group of l{.Qtarians fall all over ead1 other at a dinner in Satelite. I am afraid that this is only the beginning. 
If "EI Payaso del Hodeo" follows the same route that the Macarena took, there will be one more Spanish-languag(~ line-dance to hate. While Maearena was the most successful Spanish song since "La Bamba" to entor an English market, it comos at a price; thousands cringe when they hear the first strains of Maearnna. and it is equally possible that a year from now you will run for eover underneath tables when you hear the Hodeo song. 
The good nnws, of course, is that Latin culture will have snuck into mainstream culture yet again. I am proud to say that if the Macarena ean become a hit, then anything is possible, and maybn a wider understanding of what goes on south of the border won't be far behind. 
In the meanlimo, be forewarned. 
Hun now, while there is still time. The Hodeo Clown is coming. 
!fernadette Pampuch (SMC '97) lives and studies in Mexico City. She can be reached by e-mail at bpampuch@hotrnail.com. !Viva Alianza! !Viva Coro Primavera! !Viva La Papa House! 
The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Public Falls To Propaganda In Thinking On Iraq 
During the Iran-Iraq war, when the United States was providing advanced weapons and military intelligence to Iraq, the U.S. govern­ment expressed little concern over the usc by Iraq of poison gas on 
-] Iranian troops or on thn Kurds. /~J. There were no U.N. sanctions or ~ 11q threats of military action against 
Iraq. There was no continual hype in the American media about weapons of mass destruc­tion, and the United States eon­tinued to be an ally of Iraq. 
The media emphasis on weapons of mass destruction is a PH campaign to influence pub­lic opinion. People can't be told that U.S. foreign policy is for the benefit of transnational corpo­rations, in this case the large oil companies. Consequently, the American people must be made afraid and the "enemy" demo­nized and made subhuman so support for military aetion will grow. 
This manufacture of consent has a long history from the demonization of G1~rm1UJ sol­diers in World War I -when they were ealled Huns and it was said they bayonet1~d babies -to the fabricated story about Iraqi soldiers disconnecting incubators for babies in Kuwait. 
I sincerely hope we don't have 

to go through anothor yellow­ribbon episode with thousands of American soldiers sickened by deplnt­ed uranium coming home and hundreds of' thousands of dead Iraqis. just because the American people can't realize they are being played for suckers by the government and the nwdia. 
Gary Sudborough Bellflower, Ca. February 28, 1998 

Vote Now Seniors or Forever Hold Your Apathy 
l
am writing regarding the election for the Alumni board of Directors which is currently underway. Specifically, I address the voting of' the 
senior class. 
In only three months, we seniors will be alumni and will thus be repre­sented by the members of the Alumni Board of Directors on poliey matters. Recognizing that we will soon be alumni, although currently students, the Board has given us the right to vote in the election. All seniors were mailed ballots, including candidate profiles and position statements from which one can make informed candidate choices. During the last elnction, howev­er, only six seniors of' the approximately 2,000 who were mailed ballots actually voted. Because of this extreme apathy, the alumni association has considered retracting our right to voto. 
For several reasons, I urge fellow seniors to use their ballots and partic­ipate in the election. First, students often complain about a perceived lack of rights and voice for students in University policy making. Being able to vote in this election is just what we have been demanding. Yet instead of using this right, we have neglected it and shown that we do not deserve additional rights because we cannot even handle existing responsibilitil~s. Voting in this election will signal that we are responsible enough to bn treated as adults, and given more rights. 
Secondly, the alumni we help to elect ean be extnmwly hnlpl'ul as we start our post-ND lives. As young alumni we have little to om~r hut our energy and time, while established alumni can do much for us. But if we do not influence who represents us, and do not devote what resources we have to alumni activities. why would we deserve any adviee or help from older alumni'? Voting in this election is an essential comment on our elass's connection to Notre Dame. 
Lastly, no matter whom you vote for, you will certainly have an opinion on how Notre Dame should develop in the future. By not voting, you will be inviting people unknown to you to trample on your opinion and do what they will to your schooL I personally will be voting bt~c:ause there is a cer­tain type of alumnus I would like to see on the board so that Notn~ Dame ean join the 20th century before the 21st century begins. 
If you have lost your ballot, you can piek one up at the Alumni Association office in the courtyard behind Brownson llaiL Thank you. 
Dan Murphy Senior, Dillon Hall February 21, 1998 






VIEWI'OIN'I'
Thursday, March 5, 1998 page 9 
• THE DOOLEY filES 
Revelations In the Volunteer Culture 
S
ince graduation last May, I've underwent treatment for a burned leave in his soiled denim jacket and behind the clinic when Jack, a con­made a miniature career of vol­back, who now walked into the clinic dilapidated sneakers, I imagined the vivial retiree who volunteers two days unteering my time in the health seeking a pharmacy to fill a prescrip-belittling likely to greet him in many a week, leaned out of the door and care sector of South Bend. In those tion for salve and pain killers. He was, future encounters, and had a final called after me. The exact words­
first days I was given a monetary grant quite frankly, between a rock and a thought: Just how attractive is a home-about where I was going or some pre­on which to live, the hours of operation hard place, and he knew it, for none of less man supposed to be, anyhow? sent concern -are now beyond my at the Chapin Street Clinic, and the local authorities and relief centers Another notable moment occurred recall, but the short banter which fol­instructions to tell all who inquired -our facility included -were in a that same day when a man came to the lowed evoked a novel feeling: I am ­that I was a full-time staffer at a pri­position to legally help him. To further window to request a basket of food and belong to-the "volunteer cul­
mary care center for the indigent of aggravate matters, =================from our pantry. I ture." What this culture is-or is not 
Saint Joseph and Marshall Counties. disabled vagrants was presently -relies on my expectations of what a Moreover, I could consider myself­are not known for munching on a career of unsalaried service might be. 
Ed
working in the absence of a salary -a their capacity to Twinkie or some-It is both "community" and "commu­volunteer in the working world. conjure up money thing, and guilt nal" -each volunteer serving the As is often the case when staring for prescriptions overran me. Here other, and sharing our experiences, in down the first day of the rest of one's through gainful was a man who, addition to serving the public sector.
M c I 
life. I was uncertain. Suddenly freed employment. · C QU even working a A sociologist with his tools of acade­
from the arena of college life, I now In the course of regular job, could mic dissection would note an array of lived on my own and went daily to face assisting this man scarcely afford factors contributing to this culture. It a job which gave no indication of the (or, more precisely, bread for himself is about the humor we share, the dis­demands which may lie in store. failing to do so) it (much less a rami-position of each member of the staff, Medical school loomed indefinitely on stuck me how misunderstood he must ly), yet I was brazenly indulging in sur-the distastes and hang-ups we all have the horizon. but for the time being I be. When he initially entered the clin-plus food. This easily preventable and exhibit from time to time. It must would advance along a path divergent ic, one of the injustice would be different (I think) than a conven­from most of my pre-med classmates. receptionists nag at me for tional office job, because, for one, In contrast with the brevity of an warned me that weeks. Had I there is the absence of competitive urban plunge or a service seminar, I he was drunk. He managed to fail drive between employees, no need to would live the life of a volunteer for 12 wasn't, I discov-my calling, to outperform the person in the next 
full months, dubbed the Dooley creel: just inartic-make a travesty cubicle. Volunteer in honor of the famous ulate and in dis-of the empathy I should add, however, that social Notre Dame altruist of the 1950s. comfort from his and advocacy service is not without its own ferocious 
Four months at the clinic had passed injuries. I was which I had drive. Perhaps the drive is the mani­when I realized that I knew many of anxious that he been trusted to festation of inner conflict, the by-prod­our 2,500 patients by sight. and their might become uphold? uct of the soul's unconscious desire 
corresponding names were soon to harassing when ' Ultimately, I toward altruism locked in a sparring resolve as well. Even better. these he learned that I comforted match with its own anxieties of hope­strangers who influxed and effluxed couldn't help. myself, I had lessness and insufficiency. Or perhaps through our door were beginning to Again, he wasn't. not. Instead, I it is a drive to outmaneuver the malefi­learn my name by heart, in spite of my He understood, had shocked my cent social pressures themselves, stubborn msistance to wearing a leveled with me as own sense of which creep upon the cement of badge~ to aid their memory. Meeting I had with him, justice -and Chapin Streets everywhere, waiting to and intnracting with these people has and meanwhile learned the los-brutishly dismantle stable lives and !wen the most rewarding aspect of vol­evoked my sympa-son that serving replace them with the uncertain lives unteer life. Being recognized by a thy -not by the poor can be of the indigent. patient in the clinic conversely brings yelling at me in particularly dif­him or her to life for me, making them frustration but by ficult because of Applications are now available for less likn the constituent of a business behaving rational-i the need to deny the Tom Dooley Service Award at the 
ventun~ and more like a dear friend. ly. His was the my own desires Center for Social Concerns. The appli­
The past nine months could be stereotypical in favor of cation deadline is March 16. described as a succession of revelatory image of a gang-understanding Ed McCaul is the 1997-1998 recipi­
episodes, passed down by the muses of ster -except that the more modest ent ofthe Tom Dooley Service Award. 
voluntcerism to be palpated unexpect­talking with him needs of others. He is a graduate ofthe College of 
edly among the routine proceedings of -and being cool, As you may sup-Science, class of 1997, and currently 
clinic life. like a precious toy discov­abandoning pre-i pose, this is far resides in South Bend. His column 
ered wlwn pouring out the otherwise tense as much as -·· ·· easier said than appears every other Thursday. He can bland nakes from a cereal box. One possible -yielded done. be reached by e-mail at such moment came when I had the a reality deeper .• Still another emccoul@nd. edu. privilege of attending to a homeless than the appear-moment: I was The opinions expressed in this col­man. frosh from the EH where he ance. As I headed out to umn are those ofthe author and not watched the man the parking lot necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• lEITERS TO THE EDITOR 
MD. s Wrongly
Education Needed About Call of Human 
Portrayed


Philippine Independence 


Dignity Supports
As many readers of The 
With reference to your Feb. 28 ad regarding "The Centennial Observer might recall, the Feb. Celebration Of Philippine Independence," a little known fact 27 edition of viewpoint examined about Philippine lndependenee is that the Insurrection which the pathophysiology of oral con­

The Alliance 
pmcedcd it was incited and directed by International traceptives. During this discus­
Freemasonry with major help provided by American sion, David LaSota, a third year We must be careful when speaking about what is "Homan Freemasons. particularly General Otis, otherwise unidentified. law student, presented the Catholic teaching" on homosexuality. The church teaches that a However, it is known that General Elwell Otis, according to Physician Desk Heference's person having sexual relations with the same sex is morally U.S. Army records, was at that time U.S. Army Commander in explanation of birth control wrong. The church does NOT teach that gays and lesbians (and the Philippines. and Director of Civil Government. Also, function. While his presentation persons exploring sexual issues) having a club and meeting in a Goneral I Iarrison Gray Otis, owner and publisher of the Los of the objective information was room in Notre Dame, Indiana to talk about their lives, sexuality Angoles Times. served as a Brigadier General in the correct, his subjective comments and our culture is morally wrong. The decision by the Philippines during the Spanish American War, according to regarding medical professionals Administration at SMC to let or not let The Alliance have a club is 
that newspaper's July 31, 1917 edition, Part II, page 1. were unjustified, inflammatory, a JUDGMENT by some Christians about what other Christians The documents concerning Masonry's efforts at that time to and above all, simply foolish. His (and persons of other religions) can or can not do. It might be expel the Franciscan missionaries was concealed until 1954 insertion that medical profes­right or wrong, but it is not the utterance of God or a statement when scholar John T. Farrell wrote "An Abandoned approach sionals do not properly inform from Roman Catholic teaching itself. If people were forming a club to Philippine History: John H.M. Taylor and the Philippine their patients out of "ignorance, so that they could have sex with persons of the same sex in the Insurgent Hecords," which appeared in The Catholic Historical negligence, or outright malice" club's meeting groom, that would be one thing, but that is not Heview in January, 1954. 
speaks volumes of an extreme what this debate is about. In my modest opinion, the Indeed, the National Archives issued a pamphlet acknowl­lack of knowledge concerning Administration's judgment on the relevant question, notwith­edging that fact, stating that Captain Taylor's account was the patient-physician relation­standing the serious consideration President Eldred seems to have suppressed primarily not to embarrass revolutionaries, and ship/commitment and the prac­given the matter, is ultimately the wrong one. Our church's teach­high-ranking U.S. Government personnel. 
tice of medicine. Furthermore, ings on the dignity of the human person, the right of a person to For a complete account of this situation which includes some as a Catholic, I am extremely freely associate, and the injustice of discrimination are the most of the horrible things imposed on the Philippino people by rev­disturbed by judgmental conclu­useful teachings in the present situation and militate toward giv­olutionary leaders-including burying people alive, and sions about a profession founded ing The Alliance normal recognition. That recognizing reality does requiring blood oaths in which members of a Philippine in service and devotion to not always require approving the reality is also a helpful distinc­Masonic secret society agreed to kill their parents, wives, and humanity, two characteristics I tion. At the same time, from my vantage point across the highway,children -visit the National Archives in Washington and read would hope a third year law stu­everyone at SMC now needs to work hard to preserve the strongArchives Microfilm M719, 10-29-8 Roll No.9. dent would understand. 
sense of Christian community and common purpose SMC seems to 
already have. 
Paul A. Fisher David Pacholke Notre Dame Class of 1943 Second year medical student 
James Ball 

March 1,1998 February 27, 1998 
Notre Dame Graduate Student/Theology Dept. Match 3, 1998 

page 10 
Thursday, March 5, 1998 
ekoostik hookah Where The Fields Crow Green **:u: ~~~i:=rs 



bjork 


M
ore and more people are becoming famil­iar with Ohio's Ekoostik Hookah with each concert they play. At the time of the concert review I did with the band in November, news of their newest album was a hot topic. Now, after much anticipation, Ekoostik Hookah released their fourth album, Where the Fields Grow Green, on Feb. 5 with a special album-release party at Chicago's House of Blues. With a new member since their last album, there are signs that the band has evolved, yet also maintained what they have always been. 
Hookah's blend of folk, blues, rock and soul has always been not only unique, but quite appealing to the ear. Yet, with Ed McGee entering as a new vocal­ist and rhythm guitarist, there is a difference to the sound. McGee has seemingly brought some new influ­ences along with his light and airy vocals. The album starts out with an ode to the band's biannual music festival held in the countryside of Ohio, "Hookahville." While this song has been in the band's repertoire for quite some time, it is a strong, ear­catching opener that is a favorite for many old fans and a treat for first time listeners. One important reason for the release of this album was to introduce some of McGee's works, along with new material from all the other members, according to the band. 
With a blend of the slow rocking blues ballads and the faster, more energized jams Hookah is known for, the album shows what there most updated sound is like. While blending hard blues with folk on songs such as "Another Good Man Gonn" (a tribute to thn late Jerry Garcia) and "Blues Forgotten." Hookah contrasts with fluid, acid-rock jams like "Schwa" and "Ecstasy (feelin' good)" which give a tastn of what a concert might be like. Other songs of interest include "Caribou". a unique bluegrass tunc, and "It Fell Into the Ebb There," a chance for guitarist Steve Sweney to show o!T his masterful skills. 
The album as a whole is one that grows on a listen­er, and I recommend it to someone with the slightest bit of interest. While Ekoostik Hookah's albums am hard to find in stores, any of their albums and plenty of information on the band can be found at www .ekoostik.com. In addition to the band's web site, a sample of the band's live sound can be found on April 1 at 9 p.m. EST at liveconcerts.com. The band will be featured with a half hour interview fol­lowed by the band's House of Blues show. 
With their fourth album, Ekoostik Hookah adds to their strong repertoire of albums which makes them one of the hottest grass-roots bands around and well worth the listen. 
by Dave Clark 
* 1/2 stars


Homogenic 
out of five 

I
celand prides itself on upholding many of the old In 1993 however. the music press was tripping all Scandinavian traditions which the more continen­over itself to positively critique Bjork's first solo tal Swedes, Danes and Norwegians have long eO'ort, appropriately titled Debut. Cut loose from tlw since discarded. Most noticeably, an Icelander's baggage of her former band, Bjork could freely first name is followed by his or her father's name and express her unconventional take on life against thn the suffix -son or -dottir. Thus, you can have people backdrop of catchy music and wispy lyrics. However, in the same family with different surnames. So, it's her follow-up record Post elicited a somnwhat critical ironic that the most well known Icelander of our day, backlash and her latest release llornogcnic probably Bjork, has no last name at all and is as loony as they won't do much to help her cause. come. But, any country that has the audacity to Homogenic's musical instincts are good, but Bj'rk request membership in the North American Free overplays the voice card. She seems to be using this Trade Agreement (NAFTAJ. even though they are record merely to exhibit her unique brand of Nordie part of Europe, is OK with me. So, here we go... howling. However, it's fair to say that the album's 
Bjork first came to international attention in 1987 first single "Bachlorette" is a enjoyable npic journny. as lead vocalist for The Sugar Cubes. Singles like the video for which has enjoyed heavy rotation on "Cold Sweat" and "Birthday" raced up the British Channel V (Hong Kong's answer to MTV). Anotlwr charts and gained a cult following in this country on track, "Alarm Call," is almost danceable, but in total, radio stations like KHOQ in Los Angeles and WDHE 1-Iomogenic sounds like the product of somebody with on Long Island. The band made further inroads in too much time on her hands. I would expect more. 1989 when they joined New Order and Public Image Limited on a triple-bill arena tour of the USA. Just when they seemed to be getting somewhere, The Sugar Cubes broke up, and Bjork was not heard from by Sean Kingfor quite some time. 
various artists 


*** 1/2 stars 
out of five



Good Will Hunting sdtk. 
I 
ndie rock fans from the East Village to 1-Iaight­Ashbury may have been a bit surprised to hear the songs of one of their favorite artists in a major motion picture. And no their ears were not deceiving them. It was the beautiful, plaintive music of critically acclaimed singer-songwriter, Elliott Smith. Filmmaker Gus Van Sant had the good fortune of being neighbors with Smith and, as they say, the rest is history. 
Indeed, it is Smith's substantial contribution to the film which makes up nearly half of the album's con­tent and almost all of its charm. Smith, known for his distinct brand of gentle folk-pop, is a perfect fit for the emotionally complex and introspective nature of main character, Will Hunting. The soundtrack fea­tures six songs from Smith, four from his exceptional album Either/Or, one from his first solo effort, and one written exclusively for Good Will Hunting. That track, entitled "Miss Misery," has been nominated for an Oscar in the Best Original Song category. "It's about losing someone and wondering if that person is thinking about them," said Smith. True to form, the tune is patented Elliott Smith: poetic lyrics, melodic acoustic guitar and an achingly fragile voice. 
Also nominated for Best Dramatic Score is Danny Elfman, whose orchestral arrangements "Main Titles" and "Weepy Donuts" are featured on the soundtrack. Elfman's gift for producing poignant film scores is evident with one listen to these selections. 
The rest of the soundtrack is an eclectic mix that has its hits and misses. Among the former are a new remix of Luscious Jackson's "Why Do I Lie?," AI Green's soulful classic "How Can You Mend A Broken Heart?," and Gerry Hal'ferty's 1978 smash "Baker Street." The latter ineludes Andru Amold's poor cover of the Jackson Browne classic "Somebody's Baby" and the mediocre "Boys Better" by The Dandy Warhols. 
Aside from the few disappointments, however, the soundtrack is as tender, sweet, and engaging as tho film itself. And it is worth it just to hear Smith and Elfman at their best. 

by Anthony Limjuco 
1.) Various-MTV 120 6.) Pearl Jam -Yield Minutes Live 7.) Mary Lou Lord-Got No 2.) Ani DiFranco-Little Shadow





WSND 
Plastic Castle 8.) Green Day-Nimrod 3 .) The Dunn Brothers -9.) Big Wreck -In Loving Memory Memory 4.) Various -Scream 2 sdtk. 10.) Pee Shy-Don't Get Too
TOP10 
5.) Big Daddy Voodoo Daddy Comfortable 

page 11 


by Matt Butte/ 
A 
large portion of my collegiate life has been spent rummaging 
through web pages, tiny 

record stores, and four page 'zincs searching for my musical "ideal". This past Saturday night, I found it. 
When a friend informed me that Ilepcat, The Slackers and The Gadjits would be performing at Metro in Chicago, I knew it would be an amazing concert; However, I was completely unprepared for the unprecedented musical experience that took place. Each of the three bands were outstand­ing. playing scorching sets that left the audience gasping. The whole evening I kept asking myself how an objective review could be possible. Like a school­girl who sees the captain of the football team at the mall, I was mesmerized. 
After an early set by Chicago locals Deals Gone Rad, Kansas City natives The Gadjits took the stage. The ska com­munity's answer to Hanson (three of the four members are brothers), The Gadjits rnly morn on catchy lyrics and tight grooves than individual musicianship. A solid set of radio-friendly ska was high­lighted by dosing number "Beautiful Girl." their signature tune about lost love turned white trash. 
The set that followed was the defini­
tion of cool. An eight piece ensemble out 


:z:: 
,m n 
~ 

of New York City, The Slackers special­ize in old school ska complete with fat horns, huge grooves, and sing-a-long lyrics. They opened their portion of the show with a fiery Latin instrumental entitled "Cooking for Tommy," a tribute to Skatalites tenor saxophonist Tommy McCook that displayed to all the magni­tude of their collective chops. Keyboardist!Vocalist Vic Ruggiero's gravely baritone was in top form, and the groove created by The Slackers' superb rhythm section was contagious, whipping the crowd into a frenzy for the duration of the set. "Married Girl," "Rude and Reckless," "She Wants to Be Alone," and "I Still Love You" stood out as the songs that will continue to garner fans nationwide for this talented ensem­ble. 
At that point of the show, I was con­vinced I'd just witnessed the greatest set of music ever performed. Ten minutes later, Hepcat came on. 
My friends, mere words cannot describe the almighty Hepcat. When this California sensation took the stage, the Metro audience was magically trans­ported to Kingston, Jamaica, circa 1967. Frontmen Alex Desert and Greg Lee piloted the band through a phenomenal voyage of reggae, rocksteady, and old school ska. Combined with keyboardist Deston Berry, Hepcat possesses the most soulful of vocal trios; every verse was heartfelt, every chorus haunting. 

Bassist Dave Fuentes, percussionist Scott Abels, and guitarist Aaron Owens remained in the back shadows of the stage, consistently laying down a incom­parable groove. My feet still hurt from the dancing. Lee and Desert high stepped their way through inevitable hits "I Can't Wait," "No Worries," and "Rudies All Around." Raul Talavera and Efren Santana peppered saxophone solos throughout the evening, and Kincaid Smith let loose several soaring trumpet lines. Hepcat's perfomance was unequivocal, and it is simply a matter of time before you hear their name on a regular basis. 
Dear reader, do yourself a favor. Go down to the record store and pick up a copy of Hepcat's 
new CD Right on Time. Then walk over to the "s" section and grab The Slackers' lat­est release Redlight. Both are on Hellcat records, and more information can be obtained at 
www. hell-cat. com. 
Trust me, you will thank me for it. 


dirty three 

****stars 
out of five

Ocean Songs 
O
n their fourth album, Melbourne, between it's three primary segments the violin is Australia's Dirty Three have refined their there leading the other two instruments. As with all trademark sound and have begun to move of their songs, this one feels very much like it had in a more melancholic direction. Composed been composed as it was being recorded. The sponta­of front man Warren Ellis on electric and acoustic neous sound is exciting because even after the songs violin, Mick Turner on guitar and Jim White on have been heard over and over they feel refreshed drums. Since the band's inception in 1993 they have and the listener feels like it is being heard for the released a steady stream of albums and toured the first time. globe with the likes of Sonic Youth and Pavement. Although none of the songs have words they all 
Without a vocalist and bassist, Dirty Three are have stories. As I listened to each track I found forced to compensate by altering the traditional myself contemplating the names of each track and exploitation of their instruments. "Deep creating if not stories, then at least places and feel­Waters'"'illustrates this as it switches the roles of the ings in my head. With "Sea Above, Sky Below" the guitar and the percussion. Mick Turner establishes flowing and wave-like sound gave me the chills and and slowly modifies a pattern with his guitar which the feeling of floating lifelessly across the ocean. establishes the groundwork and rhythm for the piece. With a quieter sound than their previous albums, Wherein a traditional rock song the drummer pro­Ocean Songs shows great development and a wel­vides this rhythm, in "Deep Waters," the percussion come parting of company with their punk rock roots. is more reminiscent of a jazz record where each per­Ocean Songs will be available on March 31. former is responsible for pacing themselves. For the Dirty Three, drums are as much of an instrument as either of the other two. 
As with all of their songs in "Deep Waters" the vio­by Stuart Smith lin is the essential ingredient. As the piece moves 
upcolili 

Matchbox 20 March 8 Reel Big Fish March 13 Puff Daddy & The Family March 20 Alibaba's Tahini/Umphrey's McGee March 28 Mary J. Blige March27 Violent Femmes April6 
1.) Ani DiFranco-Little Plastic Castle 2.) Ben Folds Five -Naked 7 .) Mary Lou Lord ­Baby Pictures Sh~4ow 



3.) G. Love & Special SauceL:·nw•· 8.J!Ir ­Yeah, It's That Easy ····· · 9.) DJ Shadow ­4.) Pixies -Death To The Pixies Strike 5.) Liquid Liquid -Uq\tid 
1~m?:~~§~ In~.., 


Aragon Ballroom (Chicago) Riviera Theatre (Chicago) Rosemont Horizon (Rosemont, IL) State Theatre (South Bend) Arie Crown Theatre (Chicago) World Mardi Gras (Indianapolis) 
page 12 The Observer· SPORTS Thursday, March 5, 1998 
• THE BIG EAST CHAMPIONSHIPS 


Day full of upsets as Miami, WVU, Seton Hall fall 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Rutgers 72, West Virginia 65 
Erie Clark had 19 points and ninfl rebounds to lead Hutgers to a 72-65 upset of No. 23 West Virginia on Wednesday in the opening round of the Big East tournament. 
The 12th-seeded Scarlet Knights ( 13-14) will meet 13th­seeded Georgetown, which beat Miami (,2-56. in Thursday's quarterfinals. Hutgcrs had never won a Big East tournament game, losing its opener in its first two seasons in the league. 
Geoff Billet added 17 points and seven assists for the Scarlet Knights, who had lost three of four to close the regular season, while Earl Johnson had 16. 
Rutgers led 34-27 at halftime, but West Virginia op1~ned the sm:ond half with a 10-3 run to lie it 37-:H with 16:40 to play. The Mountaineers were ahead 48-42 with 11:11 left when Rutgers went on a 12-2 run, tak­ing the lead for good during the spurt. 

Georgetown 62, Miami 56 
Shernard Long scored 24 points and Boubacar Aw added 22 as the Georgetown lloyas pulled off an upset in the first round of the Big East Tournament, 62-56, over the University of Miami. 
This is the second year in a row in which Georgetown (15­
13) has knocked the Hurricanes out of the conference tourney. The Hoyas did it with defense, forcing Miami to shoot 38 per­cent from the floor and commit 18 turnovers. 
Miami ( 18-9) is now in grave danger of not making the NCAA field of64. 
Villanova 96, Pittsbugh 93 
Howard Brown hit a three­pointer as time expired in the second overtime period, lifting Villanova to a 96-93 vietory over Pittsburgh in the opening round of the Big East Tournament. The seventh-seeded Wildcats will face second-seeded Syracuse in Thursday's quarter­finals. 
Brown finished with 24 points, while John Celestand scored 25 for the Wildcats (12-16). Celestand hit a three-pointer with 23 seconds left in the first overtime to tie it 88-88. Lynch chipped in 15 points. 
Boston College 97, Seton Hall 87 
Antonio Granger scored 28 points and Kostas Maglos added 26, leading Boston College to a 97-87 overtime victory over Seton llall in the first round of the Big East Tournament. 
The 11th-seeded Eagles, the defending tournament ehampi­ons, improved to 15-15 and will faee third-seeded St. John's in Thursday's quarterfinals. 

Big East 
continued from page 20 

18 points while receiving little, if any, offensive aid from his supporting cast. 
.Junior Antoni Wyche contributed 11 points, starting in place of Derek Manner, but six of those 11 came on a pair of three-pointers when the game was aln~ady out of reach for thfl Irish. Cent11r Phil llickey was also able to amass nine points, but could not get the ball to drop fmrn insidr1 the point. 
"We had trouble scoring," stated MacLeod, whose team shot just 33 per­cent from the field. "We had the ball in thn paint on numerous oceasions. !Hickey 
had a lot of eraeks at it down deep. lie struggled early and couldn't get on track." 
As a whole the Irish, like Hiekey, got off to a slow start. They were able to stay dose enough the first 14 minutr.s, but allowed the Providence lead to expand to 1 0 points at halftime. One of the keys lin· the Friars was holding Garrity to just seven points. 
"We just tried to play him before he got [the ball]." said Providence head coach Pete Gillen. "When he got it, he was a king, we were a jack. lie was certainly the superior player." 
Garrity felt that the way the Friars attacked the Notre Dame guards on defense limited his own opportunities. 
"[Providence] pressured the ball well," explained the first-team, all-Big East for-
S e t o n II a I l ' s Shaheen Holloway left the court with an injured knee early in the sec­ond half, 
b u t 
returned and hit a three-point­er with 9.5 seconds left in regula­tion to tie the game at 81-81. The Pirates then went cold in the over­time, hitting 
just 2-of-14 field goals. 
Maglos hit one free throw to give Boston College the lead for good at 84-83 with 2:53 remain­ing. Maglos then made a steal and hit Granger on a 2-on-1 

ward, "so it was di!Tieult for people to make feeds to me." 
"We did a deeent job pressuring the ball so !Martin] lngelsby and [Jimmy[ Dillon didn't have all day to piek us apart," Gillen said. "We [didn't] want to give them a lot of time and a lot of space." 
Twice in the second half, Notre Dame trimmed its deficit to six points on the strength of eonsecutive buckets by Garrity. However, the Irish simply could not handle the Friars' full-court prnssure, and were therefore unable to remain within striking distance for long. 
'Their pressure defense and our care­lessness with the ball cost us," MacLeod stated. 
With 7:16 to play, Thomas drained one of two free throws to put Providence up by I0, a margin thn Irish would be unable to dnnt in tlw waning minutr~s of the con­tnst. 
Senior Derek Manner, who also played his final game in a Notre Dame uniform yesterday, reflected on the end of the sea­son and his career. 
"It feels quick," said Manner. "Four years -it seems like a long time, but I'll tell you, its fast. Being in the Big East gives you that last chance (at qualifying for the NC/\1\ tournament) and the last thn1e years we haven't exactly dom1 wPII in the confenmce tournament." 
Providence, whose victory over Notre Dame was its fifth consecutive vietory in the first round of tlw Big East Championships, advanees to face top­seeded Connecticut today at noon. 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 a.m. ro .3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cenrer. Deadline f(>r next-day clas­
Classifieds sifleds is 3p.m. All classilleds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr ro edir all classifieds f(>r comenr wirhour issuing refunds. 
between Chicago & ND Non-smoker I HATE MARKETING!!!!!!!! Wedsday, Hsu? Are you snorting a pref. No pets. 1-800-265-1682. I love Matt Loughran. dumpster full? Even I could spell 
NOTICES 

***Attn: Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Wednesday. You dishonor photo. ALL SIZE HOMES Questioning and Supportive Students, Heck, who doesn't? WE'RE OPEN EARLY, LATE, CLOSE TO CAMPUS Faculty & Staff*** LJ is a god. Not the God, but a god. 
AND WEEKENDS!!! 232-2595 Jen -I'm really sorry that I'm such an Sort of like associate god, or acting Mon -Thur 7:30am -Midnight ORIGINAL Student-run group to hold idiot. I'm going to go to the infirmary god. Maybe god in training. He's cer­Fri 7:30am -7:00pm New 5 bdrm, 2 bath home with LR, Gen. Mig. & Elections Thurs. 315 8PM. tomorrow to get my foot surgically tainly old enough. Sat Noon -6:00 pm FR. outdoor deck, & 2 car garage removed from my mouth. Sun Noon -Midnight within walking distance of campus. Calllnfo-line for details: 236-9661 Stark. A man. An adjective. An institu­
CALL 631-COPY Has AIC, gas, heat, stove, refrig, GID, Jason, thanks for coming over, babe. tion. A funny, funny bi-ped. DNJ, W & D. $1500 per mo. 232· Maybe next time you come over, you'll 4527. actually have fun and won't fall Mmmmm... Sacrilicious...
LOST & FOUND

.. 
Maybe asleep. 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE I 'II But Mrs. Krabapple, I ate my red cray­LOST: blue and red backpack on 3rd '98-'99 yr. 6 Bed. 2 Car. Gar. S tudy I'm just kidding. on. floor Lafortune. Reward offered. Call WID. V-Ball Ct. 1628 Portage. Tim@ 4014 234-3831 I 273-0482 By the way, since you don't have Vida Secas -the cinema of pain. 
Obi Wan Kanobee classes on Friday, can I take you out Rolling Stones -the music of geri­You are my MAN!!!!!!!!!! to a late breakfast? atrics.
FOR SALE
Found: A Jack Russel Terrier on Feb. Ace Hardware Brand Latex Paint • the 
27. If yours, please call 634·3331 I do have class on Friday: it's art of the mundane. Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with It's your last chance to catch Breakfast 205 "Eggs and Ham; the orthopedic mattress set and deluxe great creations." I got an A· on my Carlo Rossi: he's coming back, and in frame. New, never used, still in plastic. UMPHREY'S McGEE over-easy test the other day! a big way. 
Found a gold bracelet. $225 219-862-2082 before spring break, so catch Oh boy, I'm so romantic. I heard your dad went to a restaurant. call Andrew 1-63-53 them if you can TONIGHT at and he ate all the food in the restau­
I 

TICKETS 
I'm a bittersweet ... photo ed'tor ... rant, and then he had to leave the IRISH CONNECTION restaurant.
WANTED 

I For Sale I bit my wookie. L------------__J Clint Black Fort Wayne 3/14 the #1 Irish theme bar west of Thank you, we're all dumber now for MODELS/DANCERS WANTED Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows Shipshewana. Aye aye aye aye ... Baleia! aye hearing that. please call 219-271·0633 272-7233 aaaaaaaeeeee! 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and bab­Mmmmm... the taste of nylon... Soccer officials wanted for the spring bling brooks in summer. Snuggles, I heard a sound.
PERSONAL
semester. Great Pay! Please call John skisuits and a toasty fireplace in win­I turned around. Get jiggy with the Iron Duchess. Or in Rec Sports at 1·61 00 before Spring ter. Love and joy for your baby all year I turned around to find the thing that else. Break. CLASS OF '9 8 long. Happy, caring professional cou­made the sound. 
L ple would love to provide a new born Notice any theme to page two? A with love, joy and security. Call Ed and Judo-it'll kick your pansy behind. 
FOR RENT 

s SENIOR Ellen at 1·800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
s WEEK Mmmmmm .... me .... "My dearest Alexei (Lee), FURN, 1 BDRM APT., AIR, PRIVATE RENT 1628 PORTAGE '98·'99! Happy 5-year anniversary! KITCHEN, ENTRANCE, LAUNDRY, 0 234-3831 1273-0482 I'm going love you, love you, photo. I love you! PHONE, UTILITIES INCLUDED F IS 'Cause Barry White is Iovin' photo. -Heather'' $4001MO, ROOM $2001MO. EMERGENCY!!! Photo: smoother than teflon. 
272-0615. 9 COMING PLEASE HELP-NEED A RIDE TO "Oh Lee! % years down, forever to 
8 MINNESOTA FOR SPRING Requiesat in Pace, 80·200 2.8D AF go!" 2·6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR BREAK!!!! (WILL PAY FOR GAS)­Nikkor CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW & FALL.272-SAINT PATRICK'S DAY. Make plans, -4276 Join the choir of heavenly lenses. Well, its good to see that KC called. 6551 buy tickets while you can for The And Matt answered the call. Who's the 
Celtic Fiddle Festival. Tickets at looking for a ride to New Jersey over My life is rich and full bodied, with just man? Well, still me, but Matt is the APT. New Buffalo, MI. LaFortune. break, will help with gas,driving Matt a hint of Hollandaise sauce. jerk. Prof or Grad Student who commutes x3485 
------.... ----------------------­
-~~--------------------------------~--------­
Thursday, March 5, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 

Software© 1998 Electronic Arts. Electronic Arts, EA SPORTS, the EA SPORTS logo and "If it's in the game. it's in the game." are trademarks or registered trademarks of Electronic· Arts in the U.S. and/or other countries. All rights reserved. The "Officially Licensed Collegiate Products" label is the exclusive property of the Collegiate licensing Company. The "Collegiate Licensed Product" label is 'the property of the Independent Labeling Group. All names, logos, team icons and mascots associated with the NCAA, universities and conferences are the exclusive property of the respective Institutions. NCAA, the NCAA logo, Final Four, and March Madness are trademarks or registered trademarks of the National Collegiate Athletic Association. Licensed by Sony Computer Entertainment America for use with the PlayStation game console. PlayStation and the PlayStation logos are trademarks of Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. The ratings 1con is a trademark of the Interactive Digital Software Association. Manufactured and printed in the U.S.A. 

KAT Photo 

Coach Carlesimo and Sprewell. 


~@mB J (!)in Us ~tf ~inniqa_n' s Irisl\ ~uJI 

113 E. Wayne Street • South Bend 





.. 

~----------~~-----~~--..---~----------------------------­
Thursday, March 5, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 

a~. )N 
iJ<.· •.'Mt f'Q, ;:;ps 

ESTEE lAUD£~ 
Resilience 
,;;~)(eLUSIVELY AT AYRES 
ESTEE LAUDER FREE 8-PC. GIFT 
A $50 VALUE, YOURS WITH ANY ESTEE LAUDER PURCHASE OF 18.50 OR MORE 
SPEND A LITTLE 
YOUR GIFT WITH ANY ESTEE LAUDER PURCHASE OF 18.50 OR MORE 
A chic cosmetics clutch filled with 7 Estee Lauder essentials. 
•
Full-size All·Day Lipstick •Resilience In choice of Nectar Elastin Refirming Creme or Heathermist Pink In deluxe gift size 

•
Perfect Finish Nail Lacquer •Beautiful In choice of Mocha Pink Perfumed Body Lotion or Sheer Pink •Mirror 

•
Eyeshadow Duo With snap-in comb 

•
More Than Mascara Plus, Cosmetics Clutch Moisture-Binding Formula 


PLUS, SPEND A LITTLE MORE 
YOUR GIFT WITH ANY ESTEE LAUDER PURCHASE OF $55 OR MORE 
A sleek Limited Edition tote plus the cosmetics clutch and 7 Estee Lauder essentials. 
·­

Limited quantities. One gift to a customer, please. Available while supplies last. 
ORDER ANYTIME CALL TOLL-FREE 1-800-528-2345 




Tell mom most of what you're up to. 
-· 
1-800-COLLECT ® 
page 16 
Tennis 
continued from page 20 
However. the senior eombo of' Danny Hothsehild and Vijay Freeman stutter-stepped to their second loss of the season, 8-6. 
"They probably need to move less against a team that hits that well," Bayliss said of the mobile 
..In Men's Tennis
.IJ:If' SCHEDULE 
March 6-8 at Pacific Coast Doubles March 10 at Pennsylvania March 19-22 at Blu~ Gray Classic March 26 at Duke April4 at Boise State 
April10 at Ball State Aprilll at Texas Aprill3 at lllnois 
The Observer/Dave Piening 
pair. "People are probably look­ing l'or I them I to move like that." 
MSU's most potent threats in singles came with their No. 2 man Chris Strunk and No. 4 player Ben lletzler, who were both undel'eated prior to the match. 
llowever, the right-hand col­umn of their win-loss records 

Thursday March 5 
Improvisational Grooves 10:30 Show 
U.Upl.rey'§ M~ee 
Friday March 6 
Still in town? Come to our 
SPRING BREAK DANCE PARTY 
Open for lunch at 3 pm Friday Sandwich, chips, & a drink-$3.75 
Support local music 
525 N. Hill St. South Bend 233·8505
-

I ­
I I 
looked a little different after Pietrowski and Rothschild dealt with them. 
Pietrowski appeared to be making a pattern out of his recent domination, now winning three out of his last four match­es. 
Putting his problems from ear­lier this season, the senior defeated Strunk, 6-l, 6-1. 
Making the most of every return and hitting through the court, Pietrowski played with jaw-dropping excellence. Hel'using Strunk much opportu­nity to get into the match, Pietrowski gained the Irish's first singles win of the match. 
"It's definitely the best I've played so far Ithis season I." Pietrowski said. ''I'm getting better at hitting strokes and I'm not as tentative." 
There was no shyness on Hothsehild's court either as he pocketed his lOth straight win to remain undefeated on the season. 
After struggling against lletzler, who poses a yearly problem for the Irish, in the first set, Hothschild burst into the second set, winning overall ·7-5, 6-0. 
"I gained a lot of confidence Iin the second setI." Hothschild said. "I just tried to hit him ofT the court." 
Hothschild blasted lletzler with his all-court game and by putting pressure on the Spartan's backhand. 
"lie's a good serve and volley 
The Irish Connection 
-~~4.~~ 
Proudly Presents 
The Observer • SPORTS 
player." the defeated Hetzler said. "I got down on myself and 
he was confident." 

Self-esteem must have been soaring on Sachire's court as well. The sophomore looked like he could have defeated Trey Eubanks with his tennis shoes tied together. 
Sachire controlled the match from beginning to end, sup­pressing Eubanks' serve and volley. The 6-foot-6 powerhouse knocked down Eubanks with his serve and net approach to win 6-1, 6-2. 
Patterson came out on top after a long two-set match to delete Primorac's lengthy volley· play from the baseline. Dismissing a controversial call, Patterson went on warpath to terminate Primorac 6-4, 7-6. 
The bottom of Notre Dame's line-up was in full force as well as the Enloe and Horsley reigned victors at No. 5 and 6. 
A David and Goliath match occurred as 5-foot-6 Enloe stoned down the brawn of Kigongo, 6-2, 6-3. 
"He's a lot bigger and stronger 


• 

---~------------~~-------~--·­
than I am," Enloe said. "In the past. I've played a lot of bigger guys and they've pushed me around, but I didn't let him." 
Enloe "spread the court" and took the ball to every corner, tak­ing advantage of Kigongo's slow­ness. 
Horsley swept up the bottom of the line-up where he scrambled for every point. With poise and patience, the Horsley eliminated Trinidad 6-4, 6-1. 
Ending their regular home sea­son in a crescen­
The Observer/Joe Stark 
do, the Irish want 

The men's team ended their home season with
to carry this note 

yesterday's shellacking of Michigan State.
into a brutal away were deep down the linn-up and streak. 

played better at every spot. The"We pretty much overpowered t1)ams we're going to be playing
[MSU]," Patterson said. "We 
are a lot better." 
being from a democratic society, you have many choices. many ways to express yourself and your beliefs. many ways to make a change. you can join a militia. you can Prt>ct a barbt>d wirP ft>nct> around your propPrty. you can decl~ne to 
vote. you can get a burnper~ticker. call your local d.J. and vent. 
• 8 you can enroll in the Graduate School of Political Management, the premier school for politics. And make a REAL difference. 
TheGraduate GS eM
School of Political Mana ement ,, . 

Thursday, March 5, 1998 
Garrity 
continued from page 20 
offensive frustration. Poor free throw shoot­ing, turnovers and bad execution hindered them. 
While l'rovidPnce play­ers wPnt for the dunks, Garrity opted for style. llis leadership on the court was {JVident by his play calling and execu­tion. His finesse showed up best in his passing. llis range appeared when the Friars forced him outside. His knowl­edge of the basics became evident when he sunk all five of his free throws. With all the physical aspects of his game present, there was only one thing missing, the drive. · 
Notre Dame showed up at Madison Square Garden to play a basket­ball game but the ques­tion is did they show up to win a basketball game? · 
Maybe the frustration of Tuesday night's announcement carried over into yesterday. One thing is for sure, Garrity, a two-time first team big East selection, exited his stage without the acco­lades he so richly deserved. 
Observer/Jc>hn Daily Pat Garrity's 18-point effort was not enough to give the senior another game in the Irish uniform. 
RUN-OFF ELECTIONS! 
WHO: ALL MEMBERS OF THE SOPHOMORE ClASS AND ALL STUDENTS CURRENTLY L1 U I N li 0 F F-CAMPUS OR WHO WILL BE LIUING OFF -CAMPUS NEHT YEAR WHAT: RUN-OFF ELECTION FOR SOPHOMORE CLASS 
AND OFF -CAMPUS SENATOR WHY: YOU REALLY REALLY WANT TO UOTE! WHERE: ON-CAMPUS STUDENTS 
IN YOUR DORM: 11 :00-1 :00 OR: 5:00-7:00 0 F F-CAMPUS STUDENTS IN LAFORTUNE: 3:00-5:00 WHEN: TODAY!!! 
BROUGHT TO YOU BY: student govern 
Season 
continued from page 20 
into a nonexistent inside game, meaning Notre Dame had to once again place its emphasis on the perimeter game. 
And if a team chooses to live by the sword, then it must be prepared to die by the sword. The Irish shot just 33 percent from the field, and without an inside game to fall back on, they had virtually no chance against the Friars. 
"The pressure that their two guards put on our two guards created a problems for us," said MacLeod, referring to Martin Ingelsby and Jimmy Dillon's inability to get the ball inside. 
Last but not least, the Irish page 17 
stuck to that same old trend that has become commonplace over the last few years -they failed to give Garrity any sup­port. 
Recently snubbed for confer­ence player of the year, Garrity capped his brilliant career in typical fashion, lead­ing his troops into battle and giving them the best chance to win. 
The trouble is that no one was there to help him. Antoni Wyche tallied 11 points, but six came on two late three­pointers that had no effect on the outcome of the game. Nobody else cracked the dou­ble digit barrier for the Irish. 
All in all, it was the same old story for the Notre Dame bas­ketball team. Some might even call it a fitting end to a frus­trating season. 
Every Thursday All-You·Can-Eat Pizza &Pasta for $5.QQ. • 6:00 p.m.. 8:30 p.m. • 

:tfJ Men's Basketball. 
THE NOTRE DAME ATHLETIC DEPARTMENT WOULD LIKE TO THANK ALL OF THE STUDENTS, FACULTY, AND STAFF WHO PURCHASED SEASON TICKETS FOR THIS YEAR'S MEN'S BASKETBALL SEASON. YOUR SUPPORT OF THIS TEAM AND OF THE UNIVERSITY IS GREATLY APPRECIATED. 
TO OUR SENIORS, BEST OF LUCK IN YOUR FUTURE ENDEAVORS AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING YOU ON YOUR RETURN VISITS. 
TO THE UNDERCLASSMEN, FACULTY AND STAFF, WE LOOK FORWARD TO 
,

SEEING YOU IN THE JOYCE CENTER NEXT SEASON. THANK YOU, NOTRE DAME BASKETBALL FANS. 
' 
I -I 
Thrusday, March 5, 1998

page 18 The Observer • CLUB SPORTS 
Everybody was judo fighting 
Judo club combines fun with discipline 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
SportS Writer 

Combining snlf-dnfnnse and competi­tion . .Judo exercises both mind and body. Tlw first martial art to earn full­medal status in the Olympics, .Judo maintains world-wide popularity among people ol' all ages. and Notre Damn studPnts are no exception. 
The Notre Dame Judo Club occupies the Horkne building's Room 219 for two hours on Sundays and Wednesdays. Led by Sensei Charlie Hooks. a genuine "judoka," members seek to master the two basic principles ol' thn ancient art: "maximum efficien­cy" and "mutual welfare and benefit." 
Originating from weaponless military exercises in l'uedal .Japanese society, .Judo focuses on grappling techniques. not the kicks or strikes characteristic of other martial art forms. 
Principles mastered in .Judo do not merely apply to the sport itself, but all aspects of life. The harmonization of intellectual powers like reasoning, imagination and knowledge with psy­clwlogir.al laws comprises a large part of the .Judo techniques. .Judo also builds physical strength and balance. 
The .Judo Club is open to those with a variety of experitmee. .Jim Gallagher serves as dub President and Natasha Young is this year's vice president. Judo instructor Hooks brings a enthu­siastic and veteran flair to the club. Hooks earned national heavyweight titles in 1971, '74, '75, and '77, and trawled with the Olympic squads as a manager beeause injuries kept the champion oil' the mat. 
In April 1997. the club hosted its first shiai .Judo tournament at the Rockne Memorial. Due to the shiai's success the .Judo Club has planned a second tournament for Sat., March 28. Sanctioned by Indiana Judo Inc., the shiai will begin at noon with three minute matches at the Hockne Memorial. 
For those who have never seen a martial arts display; this year's tourna­
M
embers of the Notre Dame judo club practice their moves on their instructors. Twice a week,
ment is especially sure to please. Senior Life, a local senior citizens members gather in 219 of the Rockne Building to attain "maximum efficiency" and "mutual wel­newspaper, also contributed to this 
fare and benefit" while learning self-defense in a competitive environment. 
artiele. 

Photos by Meg Kroener 



Thursday, March 5, 1998 
The Observer • TODAY page 19 

MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
\JELL, T HOFE You ALL ENJoYE!J iESTeR()A'f'.s COMIC {)J/) YOV SEE IT! /'lo, OF covRSe-You bll:W''f /HERE ltJASN'r /WYTH!Nq 'THERE! ALL of you STARIN4 Af JT A'-1.. THRoUC,H LtJA/Cfl... 
'[: /HoV~HT 
!TWAS r\.4 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
FROI"'\ NOW ON I I'LL BE USING THE Cl-\1\05 THEORY OF 1"\A.N.A.GE.­MENT. 
-..,.;:.+"'-!-''-! 11 Item in a trunk 12 Together, 
musically

13 Feints in boxing r::-+=+=-+::-i 19 "Air Music" composer B-=+=--+;::.1 21 Contribute, as 
-~~~~~~:;~~~;:::;;:;;:;::;;.~t~o~a~n~a:c;c~o~u~n~t--•d;erived 
::; 0 
"
.... 
0 
<( 
@! 
Ul 
::; 
<( 
0 
<( 
.... 
.... 
0 
" 
"' 

54 Number of articles in the Constitution 
55 New York City opera benefactor? 
57 Melon originally 
from Turkey 60 Tide rival 61 Noted first 
name in jazz 62 Like Alban 
Berg's music 63 Get spliced 64--poly 65 Metric units 
DOWN 

1 Med. care provider 2 Sweep 3 World's fair pavilion 4 Famished 5 Tot's transport 
6 Start of many 
Western place names 7 Theme of this puzzle 81492 Columbus discovery 9 Dow Jones fig. 10 Pool areas 
DAN SULLIVAN 

YOUR HOROSCOPE ARIES -Ambition takes center
WHAT 1'1.AV BE FU#/v'IE"R STILL, Is 

stage now. Heward and recognition
WHILE ALL oF Yov ARE: !?EADti/C, 

are yours for the making-but you 
must make them happen, you can­
[1-1/5, Iit'l tJN A 8Eh::llt1J Flo~ll>A. 

projP.ct. You may be the lucky one and either finished ahead of time or you are "leading the pack" (so to speak). 
CANCEH -Some pre-planned group rnneting may find you needing to leavP. work a little earlier than usual this afternoon. You may be involved in some sort of political group for the next few weeks. 
LEO -You can feel very good about yourself' when you step out­side the boundaries of your own expertise and try something new. 
VIRGO -Taking chances can SCOTT ADAMS 
bring big rewards. Be confident but humble-pnople usually take you at your own evaluation. An important
1\ND Tl-\15 

relationship, perh,aps an older per­
DIFFERENT 

son or someone in authority. may come into focus today. 
~OW TI-IERE'S 

LIBRA -A generally busy day can be a good thing but even a good
1\ NA.ME
7 
~ 
, ~ 
.~ 
c 
• OF INTEREST
:::> 
., 
g: 

The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra presents 
Q 

its Winter Concert tonight (Thrus, Mar 5) at 8 p_m, in Washington Hall. Teh program will include Berstein, Overture to Candide; Mendelsshohn, Violin Concerto, performed by ND senior Karyn Blake; and Mozart. Symphony No; 40. The .concert is free and open to the public. please call 1~6201 for more information, 
Arts and Letters Majors and Programs Fair 
Marc;h 18 from 6:30 -8:30 p.m. ln the JACC Monogram room. Advisors and department represen­tative will be available to talk to interested students. 

• MENU 
North Fried Cod Mixed Vegetables " 
Minestrone ···· Garden Quiche 
South London Broil Cheese and Vegetable Pie Harvest Fresh Vegetables Minestrone 

Wanted: Reporters, 
23 Criticize in no uncertain terms 
24 Red corundums 25 Continues 26 Razzed 30 Louis XIV, to 
himself? 
31 Wound up 
35 Cheerless 37 Attorney's 
request
38 Critic 41 Old words from which modern words are 

not simply wait around and expect them to appnar full-blown. 
TAURUS -Communications are clear and you may lind yourself con­versing with many, many people on many. many subjects. Working with-rather than against-the flow of the energies today should be easy to do. 
GEMINI -Some people are silent hav!l nothing to say... so don't push. This morning, people arn busy. and rushing to finish some 
43 Half of 51 Ginger Rogers the Odd tune"--in the Couple Money" 

photographers and 
48 Sound of ·52 Not much passage 56 Day--­49 Not perfectly 57 Be-bopper round 58 "Phooey!" 

editors. 
50 Fish-eating 59 Capp and duck Capone 

Join The Observer 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the 

staff. 
best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

thing needs some stress relief. Call your loved one before the day is over and make an appointment with each other to give each other a mas­sage. 
SCORPIO-Whatever the case, today is working in your favor to creatn some extra funds. You have a natural sense of what the public want~ at this time. Dealing with the public today, you may gain some insight~ from others that are new to you. 
SAGITTARIUS -Pay attention to detail today. A small mistake can be quite costly and you are known for catching those small mistakes. There are plans in the making for your recognition. 
CAPHICORN -Technical equip­ment has your attention today-you are in "hog heaven." The hours just fly by as you work to discover. Although you are conservative and traditional, you probably do not giw a lot of thought to the way you dress. 
AQUARIUIS -Everything points to your taking control today. You could be most persuasive with oth­ers, and eloquent in speech. You could feel great support from the people that know you and you will have encouragement for whatever you are trying to accomplish today. 
PISCES -Your professional or educational process is moving right along like clock work, and maybe even routine. Now is a great time to make some changes in your habits. 
Saint Mary's Chicken Nug-gets Spinach Enchilada Macaroniand Cheese Chili· 
··.r 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 Construction lifts 7 "If--a nickel 
11 Pointed criticism 14 You can say that again! 15 Section flanked 
by aisles 16 Hubbub 11 Appoint 
18 Spring zoo attraction 
20 Tick off 21 Dearie 22 Ambles (along) 
23 Magellan. e.g. 27 Crescent-
shaped figure 2B01ive-­29 Beach time in 
Buenos Aires 32 Retired 
33 Struggle 
34 O'Brien of "The 
Barefoot Contessa" 36 TV news time 37 Namesakes of a literary fox 39 Suffix with saw 40 Plain homes 42 Eight pts. 43 Not occurring naturally 44--voce 45 Adaptable truck, for short 46 Stonewort, e.g. 
47 Confederate soldier, at times? 
50 Pundit 
53 Where to hear "All Things Considered" 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.... 



..  
SPORTS  
page 20  Thusday, March 5, 1998  

• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Irish handed first-round loss in Big East tournament 

The Observer/John Daily 

Derek Manner. battling with Jamel Thomas, was able to grab 5 rebounds in the game. 
Garrity and team could not stand the heat ofthe Friars 
By BRIAN REINTHALER Assistant Sports Editor 
NEWYOHK 

. Providence forwards Jamal Thomas and Justin Farley scored 17 points apiece as Pat Garrity's college career came to an end with a 72-55 Notre Dame loss to the Friars in the first round of the Big East tournament at Madison Square Garden on Wednesday afternoon. 
In an encore performance of the teams' first 
Providence 72, Notre Dame 55 
meeting of the year. just four days earlinr. the Irish were exploited in the transition game by the quicker, more athletic Friars once again. Providence led from start to linish. as it convert­ed 19 Notre Dame turnovers into 23 points at the other end. 
"(Last week] Providence created all kinds of problems for us," Irish head coach John Macleod recalled. "They have excellent quick­ness in the backcourt." 
Garrity concluded his four years in the blue and gold in fitting fashion, scoring a game high 
see BIG EAST/ page 12 

Irish end season at hands of Providence rout 
By MIKE DAY 
SportS Editor 

NEW YOHK I'Prhaps it was a fitting Pnd to a frus­trating season. 
With the entire S!Htson riding on Wndrwsday's outcome, tho Irish turned in a performancP typical of their 1mtire season. 
To begin with. Notre Dame, rarely able to put together a consistent 40 minut1~s. followed its regular season roller eoastm form against Providence. John MacLeod's squad started off slow, ralliml and made a valiant run late in the gamn, before folding like a cheap card table in the end. 
Indeed, it was a complete replica of the form the team has followed over the last half of the season in which it has lost eight of its last 11 games. 
Wednesday's 72-55 loss to the Friars can be attributed to the same three things that have haunted the Irish the 
• 
.. 
last six weeks: an inability to protect the basketball, a lack of penetration ­meaning fewer points in the paint, and the same old failure to support Pat Garrity. 
Turnovers have been the Achilles' heel of the Irish this winter. Part of it has been lack of quickness and athleti­cism. while a good portion of it has been a tendency to make poor decisions in critical situations. 
On Wednesday, Notre Dame turned the ball over a whopping 19 times, com­pared to just eight for the Friars. 
"They created all kinds of problems with their pressure defense (last time), and they did it again today," said MacLeod. "Their pressure defense and our carelessness with the basketball cost us." 
Penetration into the interior of oppos­ing defenses has been a rarity for the Irish this season. That has translated 
see SEASON I page 17 
• MEN's TENNIS 


Antoni Wyche and the Irish throw in the towel for the season with the loss to Providence. 

Irish grand slam Michigan State 
A complete team sweep ofSpartans gives Notre Dame the ace 
By M. SHANNON RYAN so worn, boasting a 7-1 record prior to the match, Sports Writer they spent their energy quickly trying to ward ofl' the 
_:_____________________Irish attack who took thorn all in two sets each. 
As Michigan State's Ken Kigongo lay on the Eck Pavilion's eourts yesterday before his match against Eric Enloe even ended. exhausted with his racquet cast aside, he seemed to exemplify the way the Spartans played the entire match . 
Spiritless and fatigued, the Spartans fell ill as Notre Dame personified the pkture of health in tlwir 7-0 walloping. 
"This is as convincing a win as we have had in a while," Irish head coach Bob Bayliss said after the squad advanced to 8-2. 
Although the Spartans did not necessarily arrive 
,

vs. Michigan, at Pacific Coast Doubles, 
March 7, 7 p.m. 

,M March 6-8 Q) vs. Northwestern,
~! March 6, 3:30 p.m. '-=vs. South Carolina, 
..... 
March 6, 2:30 p.m. 

at Air Force, 
CIJ

~ March 7, 1 p.m. 
at S.W. Texas St., 

W. Lax, at UC-Davis, March 7, 3 p.m. 1)51) March 9, 3 p.m. 
~ 

• IRISH INSIGHT 
Garrity's support­ing cast weak on Irish's Broadway showing 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Assistant Sports Editor 
NEW YOHK 

When the curtain closes on a career as successful as senior Pat Garrity's, a per­son would P.xpect a stand­ing ovation. Yet his exit went relatively unnoticed. 
With 1:22 remaining in the Providence game, Garrity dosed out his colle­giate career. The crowd applauded him with little enthusiasm as the 1997 Big East player of the year ended his impressive sea­son. 
Since his arrival in New York. he has gone unno­ticed. Garrity went umec­ognized for his efforts this season, as he was passpd by for a second straight title as Big East player of the year. In the regular season. he averaged 23 points per game and 9 rebounds as well, Yet the honor went to UConn 's Richard Hamilton. 
Many thought that Tuesday's announcement might give Notre Dame the drive to defeat its opening round opponent, Providence. There obvious­ly was not a speech preach­ing "Win one for Pat," as the Irish watched their dis­mal season draw to a dose, by a 72-55 score. 
Garrity's performance against the Friars beeamn business as usual. lie scored 18 points and snagged eight robounds, but where were his sup­porting cast in his final show? Part of the problem rested with Notre Dame's 
see GARRITY I page 17 

"When we got down, it got harder and harder," MSU coach G1me Orlando said. "(Notre Darnel just kept pressing and pressing." 
The Irish accumulated the doubles point which gave them a ono-point boost going into singles. 
Brian Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski earnml fifth straight doubles win by solidly defeating Chris Strunck and Ken Kigongo, 8-2. 
Hyan Sachire and Matt Horsley kept a few foot­steps ahead of Spartan duo Francisco Trinidad and Ivica Prirnorac to cross the finish line first, 8-6. 
· see TENNIS I page 16 

• 
Judo fights its way to the top see page 18 

•
Big East basketball full of upsets 


see page 12 









