A heMtfelt tha~k yo~ 
Welcome Junior Parents 
Takinq on the Hurricanes 
• The parents of Justin Brumbaugh express thier 
• Irish Men's Basketball takes on divisional rival Miami
• The annual Junior Parents Weekend begins this after­
thanks for students' concern. 
on Sunday at the Joyce Center. 
noon and continues through Sunday evening. 
p. 11 
p. 12-13 

Friday, February 20, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 96 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
CSC hosts educational forum on Iraq 
By TIM LOGAN News Writer 
!\ "teach-in" concerning the threatened United States assault on Iraq was held yes­terday afternoon in the Center for Social Concerns. 
The event was held to increase aware­ness of the current situation in Iraq and provide a forum for members of the Notre Dame community to discuss the issue. 
There were short talks given by a num­ber of professors, clergy, students and other local experts who presented facts about how the crisis came about and dis­cussed their opinions on what the U.S. should do next. Each speech was followed by an audience discussion. 
"Everybody expressed their views. It was a pretty open discussion," said freshman Kevin Kuhn, who attended a portion of the five-hour event. "I thought it was very 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum Kathleen Mass Weigert, professor of American Studies, spoke at yesterday's "teach-in" on American policies in Iraq. 
informative." There was a good deal of discussion of alternatives to a bombing campaign as well 
as the ramifications of military action. Speakers also considered whether the U.S. has the right to use bombs to enforce U.N. resolution 687. The resolution mandates that Iraq turn over all of its weapons of mass destruction and allow U.N. inspection teams full access to suspected sites. 
George Lopez and David Cortright, both of whom spoke at yesterday's teach-in, delivered a lecture last Wednesday entitled "Dealing with Saddam: Bombing, Bargaining or Bailing Out." In that lecture, Cortright said that bombing "offers no guarantee to eliminate Iraqi weapons," and may make matters more difficult for the United States by inflaming anti-western passions in the Arabic world. 
The sanctions which were imposed on Iraq at the end of the Gulf War "have wreaked havoc on Iraqi society" and "cre­ated a humanitarian emergency," said Lopez. 
SMC to host _housing life 'conference 

'Expo Roma' features fourth-years 

Photo courtesy of Mike Dwyer 
This watercolor by Eddie Ebert is one of more than 150 pieces of art displayed for the 'Expo Roma.' 
By JOHN HUSTON News Writer 

Fourth-year architecture students will show off their work this week­end and all next week at the Expo Roma in Bond Hall. 
The Expo is centered around Junior Parents' Weekend. Students in the College of Architecture are required to spend their third-year of studies in Rome. Therefore, they do not have the opportunity to take part in the JPW festivities. 
The Expo Roma enables them to display their work to parents and fellow students. 
Fourth-year architecture student Mike Dwyer said that while all the work that will be shown was done in Rome last year, "some were pro­jects, some were done for plea­sure." 
The work that will be displayed includes watercolor paintings, sketchbook drawings, and pho­tographs from the students' travels to Italy and other European coun­tries. 
"It is a chance for us to relive Rome in South Bend," said Phil McCormac, also a fourth-year stu­dent as he erected a giant obelisk in the front lobby of Bond Hall. 
"With this show, we can give the general public an idea of what we did in Rome," agreed fourth-year student Tony Goldsby. 
The highlight of the Expo Roma week is tomorrow's slide show. It will take place at 1:30 p.m. in the main auditorium of Bond Hall. 
According to Dwyer, the show is also for any students that did not attend the Rome Program. 
"If you didn't have the chance to travel or study abroad, this pro­gram gives a student the chance to capture the spirit. They can live vicariously through our experi­ence," said Dwyer. 
The exhibit, which begins today, will run through Friday, Feb. 27 in Bond Hall. 
Matthew Loughran contributed to this report. 
Hesburgh believes more effort towards civil rights needed 
ND President Emeritus instrumental to success of '50s integration effort 
By DAN CICHALSKI Assistant Managing Editor 
lligh above campus, in a corner oflice inside the library that bears his name, Father Theodore llesburgh can turn from his desk to look out upon a Notre Dame much different from the one he saw wlwn he first came here 64 years ago. 
It is now, even when it snows, not quite so white. 
"It was, I guess you'd have to say, dif­ferent," IIesburgh said about Notre Dame's ethnic makeup so many years ago. "The whole country was different. When I came here in 1934, there wasn't a single black student on campus. Or fac­ulty. It was an all-white ghetto." 
Things changed rather quickly. When Hesburgh returned to Notre Dame in 1945 after spending time in Rome and Washington, D.C., he came back to work as chaplain for the returning veterans from World War II. Integration was not far behind. 
"When I came back," he said, "they had one or two naval officer candidates who were black, and those were the first stu­dents here in the ROTC. But then, when the war was over, we were determined to integrate. 
"When I came into the administration in 1949, we had a few black students here full-time, and we were beginning to hire them [into the faculty] here. Then I became president in 1952, and then I could do something about it. 
"There was full determination at that point that we were going to integrate the place, but it wasn't easy to do because we had to work right across the board ­students, faculty ... scholarships, espe­
see HESBURGH I page 4 


page 2 The Observer· INSIDE Friday, February 20, 1998 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Family of murder-suicide victim sues Harvard 
• INSIDE COLUMN Following in your foot­steps When I wrote my col­IPgl~ application essay for Notre Dame four years ago, I selected /\my Tan's "Thn Joy Luck Club" because of its theme­mother-daughter relation­ships. Ironically, the last thing that I will write for The Observer is about Kelly Brooks my own mother. Viewpoint Editor Last November my mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. The lump was dntected by a mammogram but it could not be felt by a breast exam; it was smaller than a dime. Something so small has changed my life and my family's life for­lwer. I spent my Christmas vaeation taking my mother to and from the cancer center, cart­ing her around much like she did for my sis­ters and I in our days of soccer, basketball, drill team, and field trips. I accompanied her to h1~r first radiation treatment, much like she did with our countlnss doctor appoint­ments. I sat in tiHl waiting room while she fac(1(1 thn doctors and machines alone. prob­ably feeling much like a child. I was there for her first injection of the medieation that shn will receive for the next live years, much like she was there for my own first shot. Ten days ago she finished with her radia­tion treatmnnts. llnr brnast is swollen. burnml, and peeling. As soon as she is healed the doctor will do another mammo­gram to confirm what the doctors suspect­that her lump is gone. I have had the opportunity to observe my mother in her other life-hnr plaee of busi­ness. Shn spends hnr days as a nurse help­ing. hnaling and listening to her patients. In watching her work I came to know my moth­er as a woman. She is one of the strongest human beings I have ever known. Probably one of her greatest qualities is h1~r ability to listen without judging. ller patients love her because she may he one of the few people in their lives who takes the time to listen to them. Most of her patients are poor women on some form of state or federal assistance programs. She takes the time to ask them about their families; she remembers their ehildren's names; she con­gratulatns them on their marriages; she lets them cry on her shoulder when they need to. I have been blessed to inherit my mother's sense ofjustice, her sensitivity, her generosi­ty and creativity, and some of her goodness. As a woman. I respect my mother for the job that she does, for the pride and integrity with which she approaches her work, and for the sacrifices she has made for lwr chil­dren. As a daughter, I love my mother for her heart, her generosity, her patience, and lwr eneouragement. I am ol'ten told that I look like a younger version of her; I can only aspire to follow her example in living life. I spent the spring of my junior year abroad and was invited to participate in Junior Parents Weekend with the dass of 1999. Because of my mother's tmatment and the travel involved, my parents will not be attending. I am sad that I will not be able to share her with my f1atmates and friends from London and Notre Dame. However, I can only hope that those of you who know me hav1~ come to know a little of her. The views expressed in the Inside Column are those qf the author and not necessarily I hose ofThe Observer.  

• TooAv's STAFF News Accent Anne Marie Mattingly Mary Margaret Nussbaum Tim Logan Graphics Katthleen O'Brien Dave Piening Sports Production Sarah Dylag Mark DeBoy Viewpoint Lab Tech Collen Gaughen Joe Stark The Ob,ervcr (USPS 599 2·4000) is publi,hed Monday through Friday cxl:cpr during exam and vacouion periods. The Observer is a member of the Associated Prc!'lo'l, All tt'pruduc1ion righrs are reserved.  


• SOUTH BENO WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWcather®forecast for daytime conditions anti high temperatures  The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Fri., February, 20. Lines separate high temperature zone; for the day.  
H  L  
Friday  41 30  
Saturday  ~  41 27  
Sunday  ~  45 34  
\Monday ~ 52 36 j /Tuesday ~ 54 35 ~-­)'/\.\''. ' •••• _, f "\.. 4,Q,~Q8Q (f ~ u Showers T-srorms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy Vta Associated Press Graph~esNet  Vta ASSOC/8/Bd Press Atlanta 62 Austin 65 Billings 50 Boise 51 Boston 47  38 44 32 33 35  Cincinati Denver Detroit Miami Nome  44 50 40 82 16  3' 211 211 6ti -3  Reno St. Paul Seattle Tucson Tulsa  46 34 52 60 59  28 19 44 40 36  


CAMBHIDGE, Mass. 
Nearly thr.ee years after a tragic murder-suicide, the family of Trang Phuong llo filed a lawsuit against the university yesterday. 
Ito, a junior biology concentrator at the time of her death, was stabbed 45 times by her roommate, Sinedu Tadesse, on the morning of May 28, 1995. After fatally wounding llo and injuring 26 year-old visitor Thao Nguyen, Tadesse hung herself in the shower of her Dunster Hall suite. 
The suit -filed in Middlesex Superior Court on behalf of the deceased's elder sister Thao Phuong 1-lo -alleges "wrongful death, con­scious pain and suffering and emo­tional distress," charging the univer­sity, as well as Dunster llouse Master Karel Liem, former Dunster House senior tutor Suzi Naiburg and 1-Io's entryway tutor David Lombard, with negligence. 

According to one of the plantiiT's attorneys, Max Stern, the family waited to file suit in order to eollect evidence and prepare to enter a trial. 
"It took some time to investigate the matter for ]the family] to decide it was something they wished to pur­sue," Stern said. "They would not have done it if they had not believed Harvard was truly at fault." 
University spokesperson Alex Huppe declined to comment on the suit, noting that he had not yet read 
the document. "We can't comment on sonwthing we haven't ~cen," lluppe said. 
Stating th•~ university owed I lo the "duty to rna intain a reasonably safe and seeure environment," the court papers note Tadesse had demon­strated "drsp1~rate and antisocial behavior" about whieh University officials "oww or should have known." 
The 20 year-old native of Ethiopia had missed three of her four final examinatio1s the week before tlw murder-suicide, and had sent letters to random individuals, expn~ssing her despenl".ion with life. 
The suit claims llo's death "was proximately caused by the failun~ of the defendr.nts to have adequately monitored Tadesse's situation and progress afli~r having knowledge that she was troubled, and their failurn to inform ]flo) Jf Tadesse's troublns." 
• STETSON UNIVERSITY 

Prospective student shot with BB gun 
DELAND, Fla. 
A visiting prospective female student was shot in the face with a BB pellet last week. Will Smith, an RA from Smith Hall, contacted Public Safety when the incident occurred on Feb. 8. The victim was standing on a side­walk outside Smith Hall when the incident occurred. She was !'acing south and talking to a resident of the dorm, Ed Gill, when she felt an object strike her face on the right jaw area. The object caused a minor wound that resulted in minimal bleeding. However, if the entry of the BB was a little bit higher, she could have been shot in the eye. The victim was instrueted to clean the injury with soap and water in order to avoid infection. The object was not recovered, nor was the offender identified. Gill declined comment. The victim was staying with a friend, Michelle Cross, who is currently a student at Stetson. Cross was unable to be reached for comment. 
• BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Alleged rapist charged in kidnapping 
PROVO, Utah 
The man accused of raping a BYU student was also charged with aggravated kidnapping Tuesday morning in addition to the eharges of aggravated sexual assault, said County Attorney Kay Bryson. Bryson said Luis Alonso Rivera faced a felony first court appearance Tuesday and was charged accordingly. Bail was set for $50,000 for the second charge of aggravated kidnapping. Rivera is "sad by the entire event and is anxious to get the charges resolved in the interest of justice," said Steve Killpack, court­appointed attorney for Rivera and director of the public defenders office. "We're unaware of any confession at this time," Killpack said. There are two separate cases, one for each of the people Rivera attacked, Bryson said. In one case, he said Rivera is charged with only aggravated kidnapping. In the other case, he is eharged with both aggravated kidnapping and aggravated sexual assault. Eaeh case has a $50,000 hail for a total of $100,000, he said. 
• NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 
NYU drops charges against student 
NEW YOHK. N.Y. 
New York University has dropp~d its charges against stu­dent aetivist Sigmund Shen, who accused NYU of discrimi­nating against Chinese workers 111 hiring for construction jobs. But at a press conference Wednesday, NYU activist groups said they will not bn satislied until the University changes its policy and apologizes to Chinese workers. Shnn. a member of the Chinese Staff .md Worker Association, challenged the NYU administratio 1 on the hiring of Chinese construction workers at a campus building site. NYU put Shen on probation after he openly questioned University olli­cials at a fundraising dinner cnlc brating the launeh of' an Asian Pacific-American Program at tlw University. NYU also added a letter noting disruptive behavior to Shen's tran­script. Shen said the letter was intimidating, and inhibiWd his actions. "It was very frightening," Shen said. "When I received the letter, I was caught w th my guard down." 
• UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN New coalition joins admissions suit 
ANN AHBOH, Mich. 
The university has nearly one Ir,ore week to respond to a eoalition's motion to intervene in tho first of two lawsuits challenging the university's adm .ssions processes.A elerk in the office of Detroit Federal Court .Judge Patrick Duggan, the judge who will decide whether to permit the intervention, said no response me tions have b1Hm liled yet. The coalition, Citizens for Affirmative Action's Preservation, liled a motion in Detroit Federal Court on Feb. 5 to become a defendant in the lawsuit. Members of the coalition, including several na tiona! eivil rights organi­zations and high school students 'rom southeast Michigan. said they want to intervene in the suit bPcause they have a direct stake in defending the university's admissions poliees. em filed the first lawsuit against the university in October on behalf of two white applicants who daim they were unfairly evaluated in the ad missions p1·ocnsses of tlw College of Literature. Science and Arts because it uses race as factor in evaluating applicants. 
................
-

Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


NelV system makes library catalog more user-friendly 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
Assistant News Editor 
Next fall, the University will replace the Unversity of Notre Dame Library Online Catalog [UNLOCJ with a more user-friendly, Web interface catalog system called ADELPH. 
"The transition from the card cata­log to an online system was like switching from the horse to the Model­T, and the changeover to this system is like moving from that Mode-T to a BMW," said Doug Archer. Archer is a reference librarian who helped to adapt the basic program to the needs of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's community. 
"Ninety-nine percent of UNLOC's features will be retained [with ADELPHI: we didn't want to lose capa­bilities," Archer said. 
The most noticeable difference between the new program and the old system is that ADELPH works through a Web interface, according to Archer. Users will be able to log onto the cata­log from the World Wide Web, and a graphical interface will allow patrons to "point and click" rather than manu­ally entering each command. 
"The new system is not dramatically different, but it will feel easier," com­mented Archer. He also believed that the elimination of the special UNLOC terminology will help to make the sys­tem less confusing. 
"Instead of typing 'a=Dickens, C', you can just type 'Dickens, C,"' he said. 
Another useful feature of ADELPH is that when a search doesn't turn up any results, the catalog will give the user an alphabetical list of entries that are in the system, rather than simply stating "No entries found." In this way, spelling errors shouldn't prevent users from finding what they are looking for. 
Other characteristics of ADELPH include options for the user to choose the format in which the results appear on the screen and what information is given in the results. Moreover, patrons can perform sub-searches. For exam­ple, when searching "Shakespeare, William," a user could specify to search for "The Two Gentlemen of Verona" to avoid having to read through a large number of entries, according to Archer. 
ADELPH also has the capabilities to allow users to access documents that have been scanned; Archer suggests that the materials in the rare book room could be made accessible in this way. Patrons will also be able to copy records via e-mail. The new system includes the "keyword" function, which many new online catalog sys­tems have abandoned, and can work with foreign characters. 
Like UNLOC, the ADELPH system will contain entries for all materials available in the libraries of Notre Dame, Saint Mary's, Holy Cross College, and Bethel College. However, the high-level technology that operates ADELPH will allow users to access the online catalogs of many other educa­tional institutions as well. 
"This system allows us to connect to the catalogs of other libraries through a Z 39.50 interface -which is a national standard for data transfer ­because all systems that are z 39.50 compatible will work regardless of software differences," Archer said. "This is also true of anything that uses the [Z 39.50] system, including data­bases and periodical indices ... The Z 
39.50 rechnology is a least common denominator." 
Archer commented that this new technology makes inter-library loans a possibility, but that many policy issues exist and this will not become a reality any time soon. The new system also has the capabilities to allow patrons to use their ID numbers to view their records, check fines, and renew books, but that feature will not yet be avail­able when the system starts up next fall. 
Notre Dame is the first educational institution in the United States to pur­chase the ADELPH software, which was created by an Israeli based com­pany called Ex Libris. Archer said that the University chose Ex Libris because the company is very flexible and is willing to adapt the software to the needs of each institution. ' 
"As new features become available, this system can adapt," commented Archer. 
Archer credits much of the success of the project to the University. 
"The University has supported the upgrade; they wanted the catalog to be a world-class system. The University has provided the hardware and the software," he said. 
The target date for the completion of the system setup is the beginning of the summer term, so that it ·can be tested and the difficulties can be worked out before all the students return next fall. 
The 

Obsep4ve~: 

C1of 
Jssues 


1-5323 


SMC to host Readers' Theater production 
By P. COLLEEN NUGENT 
Associate Saint Mary's News Editor 
"Offending the Audience," a one-act play produced by Peter Handke's Readers' Theater will be featured at Saint Mary's College on Sunday. 
Professors Ted Billy, Renee Kingcaid, Katie Sullivan, and Max Westler will read the dramatic performances. These professors represent the departments of English, Modern Language, Communication, Dance and Thea.er, which are jointly sponsoring the 1'\·rnt. 
"This is going to be a good the annual plays and musicals opportunity for the faculty to here on campus," he said. see the audience's reaction," Fortunately, Billy continued said Billy, to men­chairman tion that of the this event
'THIS IS GOING TO BE A GOOD 
English is unique
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE FACULTY
depart­in its visit ment. TO SEE THE AUDIENCE'S REACTION••' to the "This L i t t I e perfor-Theater in mance is TED BILLY M o r e a u going to CHAIRMAN, SMC ENGLISH DEPT. Center for 
be an the Arts. experi-T h e mental audience and confrontational change to will be able to watch the per­the usual ways Saint Mary's formance while reflecting College has formerly produced upon the experience first­
hand. 


"Attendance at this event is not a requirement. It's just a really good idea to partake in;
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
it shows a sense of school spirit," sophomore Catherine 




Alleluia Sunday 
February 22, 1998 Last Sunday Before Lent 

10:00 AM Solemn Mass 

Join the Notre Dame Community as we welcome the 
Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C., D.D. 
0MPU5 

as he celebrates his first mass in the Basilica since his
tv11NI5TRY 
Episcopal Ordination 
Flannery said. She added that · this would be a good event for all students to attend, espe­cially the theater majors. 
"Through attending this play, the students are able to critique the performances for themselves," she added. 
According to Flannery, Sullivan is also the current director of the spring musical, "Charlie Brown." 
Throughout the perfor­mance, the majority of the attention will be focused on the members of the audience. 
"This play will consist of a disturbing theme that possess­es a radical approach to the­ater," Billy states. 
"Offending the Audience" will be performed at 7 p.m. Admission is free and the per­formance is expected to run approximately 45 minutes. 

to all the volunteers and sponsors who made The Storybook Festival1998 a huge success.  
WANTED: MARKETING ASSISTANT MANAGER "The Observer is looking for an Assistant Marketing Manager to help with coordinating the full color advertising spreads that appear regularly such as 'The Bar Page', 'The Map Page', etc. This is a PAlD position and we are seeking Sophomore Business Majors. Contact Greg Szilier @ 4-1695 for more information." Deadline: Saturday, February 21  

--------------~---~·~~----~----­
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 20, 1998 



IHROC 
continued from page 1 
end's 1went began ow1r one year ago. Saint Mary's prnsented a writtnn bid and delivered an oral prnsentation at the IHIIOC business nw11ting last May at Ball State University. Saint Mary's request beat Valparaiso University's bid for the host position for the 1998 confer­ence. 
"Tim conference stall' is rnally excited to see the conference. Wn've betHl planning for a long time and it's bmm nothing but hard work. We're glad to see it played out in the conference," said Lori Gundler. conference co-chair. 
As soon as studenL'i returned to campus last Auh'llst. prepara­tion work for the conference began. The committee, com­posed of nine people, has planned all aspects of the con­ference, including registration, accommodations. meals. rooms for meetings/programming, entertainment, security and hospitality. 
The committee has been aided by the various Student Governm11nt Association brandws as well as the admin­istration. 
Saint Mary's will have 10 olli­cial representatives at the con­ftlrence <L'> well as one commu­nications coordinator and one advisor. The Saint Mary's dele­gation will present three pro­grams and facilitate roundtable discussion. 
The conference begins Friday evnning at 8 p.m. with "Holl Call," and thn opening speaker and event. Any Saint Mary's student may attend that session. which will be held in Carroll Auditorium. 
Universities and colleges sending representatives to the eonference indude Ball State University, Manchester College, Purdue University, Hose­llulman Institute of Technology, Butler University, Valparaiso University, Indiana State University, University of Southern Indiana, University of Evansville and DePauw University. 

Hesburgh 
continued from page 1 
dally. A lot had to be done to gear that up. but it kept grow­ing, and fortunatnly when I fin­ished up 35 years later. the new administration was just as dri­ven as I was, and I think that we're making progress." 
That progress may be evaluat­ed on dillercnt levels, depending on whom you ask. There will always be some people who feel more should be done. 
"I think it's never quite where you want it to get," llesburgh said regarding civil rights. "It's something that you have to keep working on. But again, you've got to remember we started from ground zero, so from that standpoint there's been an enormous change." 
llesburgh's realm of experi­ence does not only cover civil rights at Notre Dame. In 1957, President Dwight Eisenhower appointed him to the six-mem­ber U.S. Commission on Civil Hights. Although the initial eom­mission was only intended to last two years, Eisenhower and his successors eon tin uously renewed it, and Hesburgh served for 15 years. 
"When I started in '57, there were 6 million blacks who couldn't vote, who couldn't reg­ister to vote," Hesburgh said. "So if you ean't register to vote, you can't be on a jury. You're nobody if you can't vote. That is something that has completely changed and I think we've licked that one. 
"I think all of what they call 'apartheid' is pretty well wiped out. I've got to say that all of this happened -opening up jobs, opening up voting, opening up schooling, opening up employment -all of that hap­pened because of affirmative action. 
"Not only did you have to let people in, but you had to go out and look for people to try to fill it up. The organization of allir­

mative action was central to all 
that happening. Women proba­
bly got much more advance­
ment in all of these same areas 
out of the African-Americans 
than did blacks and Hispanics, 
but it helped everybody." 

Ilesburgh's work on the com­mission brought him together with the nation's government and civil rights leaders. In the hallway in his ollice on the 13th floor of the library hangs a black-and-white photograph of Hcsburgh, Martin Luther King and others holding hands in a eirele at a housing march and prayer serviee in Chicago. 
"On the first anniversary of !King's] death, I was invited down to Martin's church ... to give the talk, the sermon down there," Hesburgh said. "And Daddy King, his father, said, 'Do you want to wear Martin's robe?' And I said, 'Sure."' 
"It was a Baptist church. Then he leaned over to me and he said, 'You're not only the first Catholic priest who ever preached in this chureh, you're the first white man who ever preached in this ehurch.' And I said, 'OK, Daddy, then you come up and preach in our church.' And he did." 
With all that has passed since llesburgh's days on the Civil Rights Co.mmission and King's death on April 4, 1968, there arc few who deny that there is still room for improvement. 
"I think Martin Luther was an honest man, and he'd have to say we have made more progress in the last 20 years than we did in the 200 before," Hesburgh said. "But do we have a long way to go yet? Of course. The real problem is not just laws. We've got the laws. It's people in their hearts. 
"This isn't something that you can just pass along. It's some­thing you have to work at all the time. It's not automatic. We've inherited a very bad legacy, since the days of slavery. And it's not easy to turn that around, because eolor should be irrele­vant." 
Your road to convenience begins  on  
the  Information  Highway  with  our  
FREE "Dorm" Banking service. Via the  
Internet, you can access your account  
and perform' many of the same trans­ 
actions that were once only availabl€ through Touch-Tone Teller.  ON-LINE  
All you need to access your account is  
an Internet Connection. Questions? Call for details.  DORM  
I  

WORLD-WIDE WEB: HTTP://WWW.NDFCU.ORG 
A Better Choice to Make 
LOCATIONS: 

Douglas Road-239-6611 or 800-522-6611 Ireland Hoad-299-2220 • Edison Lakes-254-4400 • Mill Street-256-2361 

NCUA 
o\1.5-_....,.,

-c..-­
Saint Mary's Campus-284-4614 • Saint Joseph's Medical Center-237-7288 
24-HOUR LOAN-BY-PHONE: 800-567-6328 • E-MAIL: NDFCU@SKYENET.NET 



MeiDorial m.ass to be held for BrllLIDbaugh 
Special to The Observer aft~rnoon of Feb. 8 while working in a computer cluster 
A memorial Mass will be in lhe College of Business celebrated for Justin Administration complex. He Brumbaugh on Monday, Feb. suffered from cardiomyopa­23 at 5:05 p.m. in the thy University of Notre Dame's University Prosident Father Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Edward Malloy will preside at 
Brumbaugh, a senior busi­the Mass and Father James ness major and Knott Hall Fo!:ter, also a resident of resident from Bolingbrook, Knott Hall, will give the homi­Ill., died suddenly on the ly. 

SMC professc,r wins award for la\\r classes 
Special to the Observer 

Susan Vance, chair of the department of business adminis­tration and economies at Saint Mary's College, received the Charles E. Hewitt Excellence in Teaching Award from the Academy of Legal Studies in Business (ALSB) last semester. In addition, Vance was reeently designated a "distinguished alumna" by Thomas M. Cooley Law School. Last year, she was also honored by the Saint Mary's students when they selected her to receive the first annual "Woman of the Year" award. 
The ALSB is a national associa­tion that promotes and encour­ages scholarship and superior teaching of business law and oth•lr law-rlllatnd eourses at the unciergraduate level. 
Vanee earned a bachelor of artf. degree from the University of Massachusetts, a badwlor of scif nee degren from the Illinois State University, and a juris doe­tor degnw from Thomas M. CO<.tcy Law School. She is a lice 1sed attorney and a certified pul:lic accountant. 
During her 15. years at Saint Mary's College, Vanee has taught int•lrnational business law. women and law, principles of accounting, cost of accounting, personal income tax, and two other dasses in business law. 

Le Cercle Fran{:ais, with aid from The Nanovic Institute for European Studies, is participating in a film grant program made possible with the support of The Cultural Services of the French Embassy and Cultured Ministry of France. 
Film Dates and Ti!llilli; "Le Colonel Chabert" Sunday, Febr 1ary 22. 1998 2:00pm 
(1994, France, Gerard Depardieu and Fanny A-dant, directed by Yves Angelo} 
Based on the novel by Honore de Balzac, a man claims to be a long­dead Napoleonic war hero to reclaim his name, rortune, and wire. His low social status prevents him rrom rehabilitation in aristocratic Parisian societ:r. 
"/Can't Sleep" Saturday, Fel•ruary 28, 1998 2:00pm ("J'ai pas sommeil," 1995, France, d:rected by Claire Denis) A pop-culture representation of lire in modern day Paris. Celebrated director Claire Denis portrays the psyct ological undercurrents of multicultural Eur,>pe. 

Friday, February 20, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
Alleged drug cartel leader arrested in Colombia 
BOGOTA, Colombia 
Colombian police captured a man believed to be the new head of the Cali cocaine cartel Thursday, calling it a devas­tating blow to a drug ring already weak­ened by previous crackdowns. Jose Nelson Urrego, 43, who built up a large fortune that includes hotels, ranches and other real estate. was arrested during a raid on a country home outside Medellin. "He was practically the highest-ranking person left in the cartel," said Gen. Rosso Jose Serrano, the national police chief. The Cali cartel was the source in the early 1990s for about 80 percent of the cocaine sold on U.S. streets but, with the arrest of its top lead­ers, cocaine trafficking has now been splin­tered among many smaller groups that U.S. and Colombian drug agents have found more difficult to identify. Serrano also called on thn United States to certify Colombia as an ally in the drug war. 
INS deportation of illegal aliens rises in 1997 
WASHINGTON The Immigration and Naturalization Service said Thursday its agents ousted 
34.134 criminal and illegal aliens from the United States in the last three months of 1997, up 70 percent from the same period a yPar earlier. Some 12,755 of those deported or otherwise removed were criminals, the agency said. Congress and the Clinton administration have funneled vast new rnsourens to the INS in recent years amid widespread criticism that the agency was falling down on the job. The INS has been under growing pressure from Congress and border-state governors to crack down on illegal immigration. 
U.S. slashes number of troops in Bosnia 
WASHINGTON 
The United States is expected to reduce its military commitment to the NATO mission in Bosnia this ynar from 8,500 to 7,000, an administration official said Thursday. The official made the disclosure after NATO ambassadors meeting in Brussels decided to extend NATO'S presence in Bosnia beyond June, when the current mandate expires. Dospite the reduced U.S. presence, the over­all NATO commitment is expected to remain at its current level at least until national elections in Bosnia this fall. Clinton has warned that Bosnia "could backslide into war" if the United States and NATO with­drew peacekeepers. Among major U.S. diplomatic challenges, Bosnia is emerging as a bright spot. 

S&P 500: 

Composite 1028.28 Volume:
8375.58 -3.78 581,135,495 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
( !)MI'·P.JY  I I< KI·K  %< !J.\Ntj!  SCiAJN  PRICE  
DOUBLE EAlii.E PET  DBLE  65.22  0.938  2.375  
ARI NETWORK SVCS  ARIS  39,69  0.781  2.75  
1/0WTF.C INC QUESTA OIL k GAS  1/0WT QUES  36.00 31.43  0.563 2.750  2.125 11.50  
SONIC SOLUTIONS  SNIC  29.55  O.RB  3.562  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
MilS/ MOB/I.E DATA MDSIF 23.61 3.437 11.125 BF./.1. TECIINOL-WTS BELTW 22.73 0.625 2.125 NEW DIMENSION DDDDF 21.74 5.625 20.25 TAM RESTAURANTS TAMR 21.21 0.875 3.25 SANDATA INC. SAND 19.50 0.969 4.00 




FBI charges two men in alleged plot to use biological weapons 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
LAS VEGAS 
Two men were charged Thursday with possessing the deadly germ anthrax for use as a weapon. The FBI said one bragged in Las Vegas he had enough to "wipe out the city" and last year laid out a plan to unleash bubonic plague on New York City subways. 
The men were arrested in suburban Henderson late Wednesday as they were allegedly trying to arrange a lab test of the substance. Their beige Mercedes, sealed in plastic, was hauled off to a military base for tests to con­firm whether the material carried inside was the germ warfare agent. 
An informant said one of the men told him he had "military grade anthrax" in flight bags in the trunk of the Mercedes, according to an FBI affi­davit. The informant said he saw eight to 10 bags marked "biological" in the trunk. 
Larry Wayne Harris, 46, of Lancaster, Ohio, and William Leavitt, 47, of Las Vegas and Logandale, Nev., appeared before a federal magistrate Thursday afternoon, handcuffed to each other and shackled at the ankles. 
They were charged under a federal law that prohibits the production and possession of any biological agent for use as a weapon. 
A detention hearing for the pair was continued until Monday while the gov­ernment ran tests to determine whether the anthrax was military grade or simply an anthrax vaccine. 
The FBI said the pair were trying to arrange to buy the informant's testing equipment for $2 million up front and another $18 million later. 
Bobby Siller, special agent in charge of the Las Vegas FBI office, told a news conference before the affidavit was released there was no indication the men had any target. Siller repeatedly reassured residents of the Las Vegas area that there was no contamination and no danger. 

Clinton keeps 
AssoCIATED PRESS 
WAS 
On the eve of a high-stakes U.N. diplomatiC rni Baghdad, PresidentClinton ordered his nationalS team to postpone overseas travel Thursday while he ers a possible military strike; . . . . . 
Clinton said he had made no decision on for Iraqi President Saddam Hussein to bow to demands for ~;ttoo~s ~ suspected weaponS site time is on our side," he told reporters. · · 
The U;S. military puildupin the Persian apace. The lead contingent of a 3,000-strong Army unit from FortStewart, Ga.• /}.rrived·in Kuwait to take up d~fensive positions and demonstrate U.S. re$6lve. Clinton said Vite President Al Gore would put off his trip to South ;\[rica, and ~~ntago11 officials s<dd Defense Secretary William Cohen would delay a planned journey to South Africa and South America. that was to have begun next Tuesday, 
"In coming days I want my full national security team on hand to take part in our deliberations and decisions on this vitally Clinton said. . •... . .. 
With lJ;N. Secretary-G¢1iera1Kofi Baghdad for talks with Saddam, Clinton with French Jaccmes Cllirac 
Annan's.. . ''critical nl'ionhl'h11ni1'u outcome that. all 


Anthrax is an infectious disease that usually affiicts only animals, especially cattle and sheep. But anthrax spores can be produced in a dry form suitable for weapons and can be fatal to humans even in microscopic amounts. 
Anthrax can also be used in germ warfare; many of the troops who fought in the Persian Gulf War were inoculated for the bacteria. 
Harris, identified by the FBI as a member of the Aryan Nations, was pre­viously given probation after pleading guilty to illegally obtaining bubonic plague bacteria through the mail in 1995. He is also author of a self-pub­lished book called "Bacteriological Warfare: A Major Threat to North America." 
Leavitt, who has no criminal record, owns a microbiology lab in rural Logandale, about 60 miles north of Las Vegas, and another in Frankfurt, Germany, according to the affidavit prepared by FBI Special Agent John H. Hawken. 
In background information in the affidavit, the FBI said that last summer Harris described plans for the New York attack. 
"Harris told a group of plans to place a 'globe' of bubonic plague toxins in a New York subway station, where it would be broken by a passing subway train, causing hundreds of thousands of deaths. Harris stated that the Iraqis would be blamed for that event." 
The affidavit added: "Harris had stat­ed that the New York subway attack would ruin the economy and take the military by surprise." 
The affidavit said a confidential infor­mant called the FBI Wednesday to say he was a research scientist and had been contacted by Harris and Leavitt, who asked him to use some of his equipment to test vials of the bacterium Bacillus anthracis, which causes anthrax. 
In Washington, D.C., Attorney General Janet Reno briefed President Clinton by telephone on what the gov­ernment knows about the case and what was being done. 

to home 


Singer to perform classics 
Special to The Observer 
Soprano Eileen Lauer will perform with accompanist Ivana Bukvie on February 28 in the Moreau Center for the Arts Little Tlwatre at 8 p.m. Lauer will sing works by Dubussy, Schubert. Puccini, Copland, Gershwin and Kritz. The recital is free and open to the public. 
Lauer is currently the direc­tor of liturgy and music at Christ the King Catholic Church in South Bend, Ind. She holds a bachelor of music degree in vocal performance from Indiana University at South Bmul, wlwm she was a winner of the I 992 Concerto Night Corn peti lion. 
Lauer has given numerous vocal recitals in the area and has been featumd in the "First United Methodist Concert Series" [South Bend,] "the Concerts at St. Joseph's" !Homewood. Illinois!. 
She is also a soprano soloist with the South Bend Symphonic Choir's Brahm's Liebeslinder Waltzes. 
She has toured Ireland with the Notre Dame Folk Choir, with whom she has made two recordings: "Of Holy Women" and "Candled Seasons." Lauer's voice has also been featured in several local area television and radio commer­cials. 
Pianist Bukvich began her piano education at the age of live at the S. Mokranjac Music School for gifted children in Yugoslavia. 
While thnre, she received the 

S. Mokranjac and the D. Kirn Foundation Awards, and com­peted successfully in many city, state and Hepublic competi­tions. 
She attended Belgrade Univnrsity of Arts and came to Indiana University South Bend in 1993 to join the Martin Piano Studio at the invitation of Alexander Toradze. 
She is currently a graduate assistant at IUSB. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS F :iday, Febrauary 20, 1998 
--------------------~~~~~~~~~---------------------------­
Mir encounters function difficulties 
Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVERAL 

They came dangerously close to abandoning Mir when the worst fire ever aboard a l'lying spacecraft broke out one year ago. No wonder the cosmonauts pulled out the cognac once the smoke cleared. 
The Feb. 23 blaze was just the first in a string of calami­ties that would bedevil the Hussian space station and its international crews: a mid­space collision, a crashed computer, noxious fumes, blistering temperatures. 
The revelation that there was eognae aboard is hardly likely to improve Mir's bat­tered image. But cosmonaut Alexander Lazutkin says it was purely for medicinal pur­poses -that having extin­guished the fire, the crew needed a sip of the hard stuff to extinguish the stress. 
"It was like any people on Earth who have weekends, holidays. We needed to relax, so we would allow ourselves a sip of cognac," he explained in an interview. 
"On board there is a little bit. It is needed because you can imagine the stressful situ­ation on board, therefore a small quantity can be con­sumed," echoed cosmonaut Vasily Tsibliyev. 
American astronaut Jerry Lincnger, a physician, declined. lie says he doesn't drink much alcohol on Earth, let alone in space where "you need to have all your senses, you need to be sharp every minute." 
According to Linenger, the bottled cognac is brought aboard on unmanned supply ships and sipped through straws. Hussian ground con­trol winks at the practice, he said in an interview. 
While NASA flatly forbids drinking in orbit, the Russian space agency's rules seem lax, to say the least. Each program sets 1ts own regulations for its own spacecraft. 
"They look at it ... as a med­ication to calm your nerves and help you through some tough situations," Linenger said. "But the problem on Mir is, the next day is also a tough situation." 
It's so tough, day after day and month after month, that even astronauts with combat experience have returned from four-month stints saying never again. 
"I would not send any more people to Mir," said David Leestma. director of NASA's flight crew operations." Everybody comes back and says it's the hardest thing they've ever done." 
Seven NASA astronauts have served on Mir. the last being Andrew Thomas who arrived in January, and all are con­vinced their work has con­tributed to the next big step in space research -to assemble an international station in orbit starting this summer. 
Mir's setbacks have taught NASA and the American pub­lic much about what a space station can and can't do, says Marcia Smith. a specialist in space policy for the Congressional Hesearch Service in Washington. 
However, she said, "There's still a question as to whether you needed seven people to go up to learn this." 
Linenger, who quit NASA at the end of 1997. feels good about his contribution: oxygen generators that are safer than the one that burst into !lames. 
After the fire, Linenger sug­gested that everyone take vit­amin pills and powdered milk to neutralize any contami­nants inhaled or swallowed. Russian !light controllers con­curred and also recommendnd "a little special medicine," which turns out to have been the cognac. 
The fire was "one of the worst things that ever hap­pened in the history of space­!light," Tsibliyev said. 
He ought to know. 
After the !'ire, problems snowballed aboard 12-year­old Mir. some because of its age, others t'or unrelated rea­sons. 
Tsibliyev, Mir's commander, and Lazutkin, his !light engi­neer, were there for all of it: when the fire broke out; when the cargo ship rammed and ruptured Mir in a June dock­ing test; when computers crashed and the station lurched through orbit; when noxious antifreeze fumes leaked from corroded pipes; when temperatures inside shot above 90 F. 
Lazutkin prematurely dis­connected a cable and set Mir adrift without sun-generating power. He insisted he wasn't exhausted or overworked, he simply made a mistake. 
Tsibliyev, overwrought al't rr 
the collision, developed an irregular heartbeat. Doctors attributed it to stress, and he was barred from spacewalk­ing repairs. 
Tsib iyev knew he would be blame :1 for tho collision since he wa·; the one controlling the unmanned eargo ship. lie was, in fact, faulted by some Hussia n space officials, but a Russian investigativ!~ board ultimhtely spread the blame around. citing "an unfavor­able e•Jmbination of factors." 
The Russians say they will krwp lvlir orbiting with rotat­ing cr·Jws through I 999. after which the station would be broug 1t back into the atmos­phere to burn up. No date has been !'et. 
For the eosmonauts, af'tnr six months baek on Earth, time ~.eerns to havn softened nven tlw harshest memories. 
"Fly ng on Mir isn't danger­ous at all," Tsibliy!w not!~d during a visit to Italy last mont! . "and the demonstra­tion i.; thn faet that we an) eontir uing to live on it nvnn al'ter the breach caused by the collisi•m." 
Dur,ng a trip to Nr~w York earlier this month, Lazutkin declared: "I want to go baek." Was he crazy? He laughed hard 111d replied: "~II astro­nauts arf' rTa7:V nwn. 

The igniter on the solid-fuel, oxygen-generating canister in all likelihood caused the blaze, so the canisters on the international space station will be adapted accordingly. 
The fire burned like a blow­torch for about 14 minutes and blocked the exit leading to one of two lifeboats, each capable of holding just three people. The next space station will have a smoke-inhibiting system, and its lifeboats will be twice as big. 
The smoke was so thick aboard Mir that its six occu­pants an American, a German and four Russians, eould barely see. Linenger's oxygen mask didn't work, so he had to grab another. The fire extinguishers proved ineffec­tive against the burning lithi­um perchlorate fuel. 

Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS page 7 
Tobacco colllpanies add nicotine 
Associated Press tial. for the lower leveb for 
However, a copy of a portion American cigarettes was not 
NEW YOHK of the transcript was obtained explained. 
America's third-largest by The Associated Press on • Hundreds of strains of tobacco company is secretly Thursday. high-nicotine leaf have been adding genetically altered, During his deposition, Black developed, with at least five high-nicotine tobacco to ciga­testified that: used in Brown & Williamson rettes it exports to Asia, the • The Viceroy King Size and cigarettes sold in the United Middle East and Western Viceroy Lights cigarettes States. Europe. a company executive exported to Europe, the • Souza Cruz, a Brazilian has tnstified. Middle East. Hong Kong and company owned by BAT 
Brown & Williamson other parts of Asia are 6 per­Industries PLC, the same Tobacco Corp. uses twice as cent high-nicotine tobacco. British conglomerate that con­much of the high-nicotine leaf Export brands began packing trols Brown & Williamson, in cigarettes sold overseas as the leaf in 1995. grew and supplied a large it does in brands marketed in • Brown & Williamson uses part of the high-nicotine the United States, said Hoger the genetically altered leaf in tobacco used in the American Black. the company's dirnctor at least eight brands sold in cigarettes. Souza Cruz most of leaf blending, in a deposi­the United States. Black men­recently shipped the tobacco tion for New York's class­tioned Prime, Summit. Haleigh to Brown & Williamson in action lawsuit against major King Size, Haleigh 1OOs, Pall 1995 and 1996. tobacco companies. Mall Plain King Size, Lucky • A small quantity of geneti­
The gnnetically altered Strike Plains, Haleigh XLP and cally altered, nicotine-rich tobacco packs twice the nico­Private Stock. tobacco -code named Y -1 ­tinn of natural leaf. • The company last week was grown in Kentucky in 
The Jan. 16 deposition was said the Richland brand also 1984 and 1985 and added to conducted in private, and uses the leaf. These brands Brown & Williamson ciga­tobacco indus try lawyers are 2 percent to 4 percent rettes sold in the United requested it rp,main confiden-high-nicotine leaf. The reason States. 


Diamond PriceQuotations 
246-1939 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond? Choose wisely with information in our complimentary book, Diamonds Magnified, 186 pages, hardbound. 
The Diam.ond Authority®
A Division ofJohn M. Marshall's, Inc. Established 1965 
Monday-Friday, lOa.m. to 6p.m. 
KeyBank Building, Suite #101 South Bend, Indiana 46601 

That's what graduate students may be saying if they rent somewhere else. Because our residents enjoy all the room they need to relax and unwind. The gas is included in your rent, so you'll stay warm and cozy every winter for free! And our tennis courts and swimming pool will help you relieve the stress of graduate school. And if that's not enough, you also get a reduced security deposit of $50.00, no application fee, and a $20.00 monthly graduate student discount. And ask about our priority waiting list program if you'd prefer to wait until August to move. Talk about the luck of the Irish! So what the!#?*& are you waiting for? Come see today. 


Williamsburg 
eL 

Williamsburg on the Lake 302 Village Dr. Mishawaka, Indiana 46545 Phone# 256-0237 


at hearings next week, eli­gibility would be terminat­WASHINGTON ed for the vice president, ~t11xi1P. apd · nl,emh!ilrs of (;ongress, both military Supreme Court justices, have introduced high-level diplomats and ..l"Xt:>lti.L.iuu that would deny other senior government of others· officials who served in the .lingtril1 milit/tr§ but do not other• 
ro......,,t.,••,:, 
wise meet criteria for Arlington burial. ' 
That would disqualify Stump, who V\l'as in the Navy during World War H. and Evans, who was a Marine during the Vietnam War b'ilt did not serve in' Vietnam. 
The president and ex­presidents would continue to be eligible, ~~ \vould ser:; 
.•.• · members who die on active duty, retired mem­bers of the armed forces, recipie}lts of rnaj~r comh~t medals. and .fortper prh;on:. ers of war. 
The bil1 would allow cer· tain clqse family members ·· Of eligible vet~tans to he · hutied ln the same grave with loved ones without a need for a waiver and would codify.pegulati?9s alloWing the cremated remains of any veteran with an honorable dis­charge to be k~pt at t~~ 
cemetery. •"• •• ' 
. Only memorials honoring military service would he allowed on the grounds. 

Sunday. February 22 
Candlelight walk to Walsh Hall 
8:oopm 
Mass in Walsh Hall Chapel 
8:3opm 
Sunday. Feb. 22-Tuesday. Feb. 24: 
Foster Room, LaFortune 
3-PART SERIES ON HUNGER­INFORMATIONAL TALK, QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION 7:oo-8:oo pm 
page 8 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS February 20, 1998 

• IRAO. 
U.N. leader will visit Baghdad 
Cuba frees J:~risoners 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD. Iraq 

Bound for Iraq in a last­chance peace mission, U.N. Secrotary-General Koli Annan der.lared Thursday he was "reasonably optimistie" about his chances of ending the weapons-inspnction standoff without force. 
In ease he fails. tlw United Nations evacuated dozens more aid workers Thursday. and the Polish Embassy ­
manufacture as much as 200 tons of the deadly VX nerve agent. 
Saddam sent a message Thursday to Russian President Boris Yeltsin saying he remains committed to a diplo­matic solution, the official Iraqi News Agency reported. Yeltsin has been loudest and bluntest among world leaders in oppos­ing any U.S. use of force to end the crisis. 
The Polish 
'IT IS IN [SADDAM'S] BEST INTER­
whieh represPnts interests in Iraq
U.S. interests in EST AND IN THE INTEREST OF THE 
since the 1991 Iraq -becanw the IRAQI PEOPLE TO AGREE TO IMPLE­Persian Gulf' War, 
first to pull its sent 10 of its diplomats out. and
MENT SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLU-
Spnaking to TJONS.' reporters in New York, Annan acknowledged a "great deal of suspicion on both sides." 
llis aims for wnekend talks with Saddam llussein were straightforward: "to nxplain the situation very clearly ­and g11t him to understand that it is in his best interest and in the interest of the Iraqi people to agree to implement Security Couneil resolutions." 
Annan stopped in Paris for talks and was to arrive in Baghdad on Friday, after the Security Council approved his mission Wednesday. 
Sptmking to reporters after a menting with Frnneh President Jacquns Chirae, Annan said. "I hope I will be able to convince President Saddam llussein to accept certain proposals that I wil.l rn.:Lke to avoid a military stnke. 
Chirac called Annan's mis­sion "extremely difficult and important" and said that the 
U.N. leader had France's full support. "I hope, thanks to him, wisdom and reason will prevail," he said. 
The U.N. Security Council postponed a briefing Thursday on the progress of weapons inspections and prepared for a vote Friday to allow Iraq to more than double the amount 


Embassy, which has handled U.S. 
diplomats their families to Jordan. The
ANNAN 

of oil it can sell under a U.N. oil-for-food plan. 
Both moves were seen as an effort to increase Annan's chances of negotiating a peace­ful resolution to the crisis. 
The United States wished Annan success, but made clear it reserved the right to reject any deal he makes -and to attack to force Saddam to open all suspected weapons sites to 
U.N. inspectors. 
The draft weapons inspec­tions report to be presented to the council claims Iraq has failed to fully disclose its chem­ical and biological weapons ability or to provide informa­tion on its missile warheads. 
The report by Richard Butler, the chief U.N. weapons inspector, also says Iraq may possess enough material to 
remaining six 
diplomats would follow, Polish Ambassador Roman Chalaczkiewicz said, without saying when. 
The U.S. Embassy in Jordan said Washington played no role in the Polish decision to evacu­ate, which Polish oflicials pre­dicted could prompt an exodus of foreign missions from Iraq. 
Buses carrying 29 U.N. relief workers pulled out of Baghdad before dawn Thursday. Another 30 were to follow Friday. 
The move was a precaution "in case everything does not work out," said Denis Halliday, the U.N. humanitarian coordi­nator for Iraq. 
About 250 workers, out of a total of 400, remain in Iraq to run the U.N.-approved oil-for­food program distributing aid to Iraqis. 

Wanted: Writers and Editors. Join The Observer Staff. 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY 
The Cuban government said Thursday it has freed 299 prisoners as a result of Pope John Paul Il's visit last month, and may free another 20. 
Cuban Foreign Ministry spokesman Alejando Gonzalez told a news confer­ence in Havana the prisoners were freed last Friday and Saturday, although word of the releases trickled out slow­ly over the following days. 
Gonzalez said the released prisoners had been convicted of both ordinary crimes and political crimes, according to the Cuban government news agency Prensa Latina, moni­tored in Mexico City. 
Among the freed prisoners, 224 wore released for humanitarian reasons. including old age and ill health. 
Du ·ing the papal visit, the Vatican presented Cuba with a list of more than 300 pris­onern, although 106 of' them already had been freed. The list included 160 political priso nors. 
Gonzalez said 20 political prisoners on the Vatican list remain under study. But the government decided not to free 'mother 60 to 70 on the list l•ecause of the sorious­ness Jf their crimes. 
Th·~ government has not released thn names of those freed. 


Matt DeCarolis Eaton Corporation, Brazil Brad Gurasich Eaton Corporation, Brazil Leigh Tsuji Price Waterhouse, Japan Liberty Balbort Augusta Victoria Hospital, Israel Kristin Quinn La Bolsa de Comercio de Santiago, Chile Maggie Durant Rhone Poulenc, Chile Carin Pankros AT&T, London Julie Burke Connect Public Affairs, London Daniella Papi Connect Public Affairs, London Scott Guiliani Market Access, London Bethany Marquis Bank of Estonia, Estonia Mike Bochrodt Estonian Chamber of Commerce, Estonia Patrick Schlenhuber Estonian Chamber of Commerce, Estonia Goran Gavran American Chamber ofCommerce, Slovakia Joe Kippels Dow Jones Markets, Hong Kong Abigail Gottschalk Karelia School, Russia Kevin McManus Karelia School, Russia Sara Vance Polish University, Lithuania Sandra Peterson Polish University, Lithuania 
Keith Porapaiboon Goldman Sachs, Hong Kong Justin Liu ISL Asia Pacific, Hong Kong Brett Rechel Watson Wyatt, LTD, Hong Kong April Hughes Bank of Ireland, Ireland David Johnson 
H.J. Heinz, Ireland Carolyn Parnell Waterford Crystal, Ireland Jennifer Stirk Waterford Crystal, Ireland Timothy Keller Honeywell Industries, Russia Rainer Schwabe Electro Metalurgica, Chile Steve Locher US Baltic Fdn., Washington, D.C. Holly Andrews Wendy's International, Hawaii Ben Cizek Eaton Corp.,Gdansk, Poland Tina Alley Jagiellonian University, Poland Kathleen Hanley Jagiellonian University, Poland John Wingerter Jagiellonian University, Poland Matt Banach Jagiellonian University, Poland Benoit Contoir Benin U., Benin Angela Cantu Benin U., Benin 
Lesley Belden Benin U., Benin 

Brian McMullen Tallinn College, Estonia Jennifer Ross Tallinn College, Estonia Erin Deming Tallinn College, Estonia Kathryn Co us tno Pamu Karen Cardinal Pamu Erin Atwell 
Polish University, Lithuania Still Pendi11.2.,;. Kurt Lovell 
Duetsche Morgan Grenfell, London Mike Wilcox Morgan Stanley, London Mike Monroe & Andrew Gardner Morgan Stanley, Hong Kong Kelly Starman & Dan Connelly 
Louisville Slugger, Japan Mike Monroe, Andrew Haley, Kurt Lovell & Kelly Starman 
SBC Warburg Matt Wingert(:r, Matt Mersch & Matt Meyer 
East Asian&~ Hong Kong 

Tfw w~11A -W W · · .•. et f~~iMd www.nd.edu/ ndcibd 
~----------~~ ----~-------~--. 
Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
King's wedding cake sells for $26,000 at auction 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A 61-year-old piece of wedding cake sold for $26,000 on Thursday, part of the spirited bidding in the first round of a nine-day auction of the Paris estate of the late Duke and Duchess of Windsor. 
Though likely very stale by now, the cake, sealed in a nearly three-inch-square white box, has the distinction of being from the '1937 wedding of Edward VIII, the former king of England, and · the woman for whom he gave up his throne, American divorcee Wallis Warfield Simpson. It had been valued at up to $1,000 in a pre-sale estimate. 
Telephone bidders joined an audience of about 1,000 at Sotheby's in purchasing an array of items from the estate. 
The cake's buyer, 31-year-old Benjamin Yim, identified himself as a San Francisco entrepreneur and said he intended to keep his purchase. 
''I'm not going to eat it," joked the Hong Kong native, who said he was attracted to the item by the couple's love story. "I think it's epitome of true romance." 
· The duchess, who survived her husband, left most of the estate to the Institute Pasteur in Paris. The institute sold it to the Dodi Fayed International Charitable Foundation, headed by Egyptian­born millionaire Mohamed Al Fayed. 
The auction initially was set for last September but was post­poned after the Paris car crash that killed Fayed's son, Dodi, and Princess Diana. 
Proceeds of the auction will got to the foundation. 
Also sold were a brass ashtray, which went for $1,200, and a pair of glass claret jugs given to Edward by his grandmother, Queen Alexandra. The jugs, val­ued before the auction at up to $3,000, sold for $35,000 to a Los Angeles buyer. 
"This is the biggest auction we've ever held in the United 




<ltl"a~•••m 
DEA.LING WITH THE STRESS OF GRA.DUA.TE SCHOOL 
•academic 
pressure... 

•poor 
job market... 

•departmental 
politics... 

• 
exams & dissertation... 


Join the presentation & discussion led by Dr. Dominic Vachon of the Counseling Center 
This Sunday, Feb. 22 
4-5 p.m. 
Fischer Grad. Community Center (All welcome. Refreshments provided.) 
GET MONEY FROM YOUR UNCLE INSTEAD. 
Your Uncle Sam. Every fees. They even pay a flat rate year Army ROTC awards for textbooks and supplies. scholarships to hundreds of You can also receive an allow-talented students. If you anceofupto$1500eachschool 
qualify, these merit-based  LEADERSHIP  year the scholarship is in  
scholarships can help you  ~  effect.  Find out today if  
paytuition andeducational  you qualify.  



ARMY ROTC 
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE COURSE YOU CAN TAKE 
For details, visit 216 Pasquerilla Center or call 631-6986 
States, and as a royal collection, more or less unprecedented in history," said Sotheby's expert Joe Friedman. "One has to go back to the 17th century to find 
'I'M NOT GOING TO EAT IT•••• I THINK IT'S THE EPITOME OF TRUE ROMANCE 
BENJAMIN YIM 
anything comparable -the sale of the possessions of Charles I." 
Edward's short-lived reign ended in 1936 when he doffed the crown to marry Simpson and became the only English monarch ever to abdicate. He died in 1972; she died 14 years later, leaving the estate to chari­ty. 
Among 40,000 items to be sold, the priciest was Sir Alfred Munnings' 1921 painting of Edward, Prince of Wales, in rid­ing habit astride "Forest Witch," valued at $600,000 to $800,000. The cheapest: a small 1962 por­trait of the Duchess, $40 to $80. 
Otherwise, bidders could choose from an array of furni­ture, paintings, jewelry, house­wares, dishes, rugs, bric-a-brac, clothing, scrapbooks and sou­venirs of the merry -and not­so-merry -lives of Windsor. 
When not sitting for portraits by photographers Cecil Beaton or Man Ray, the Duchess tended her "pug collection" -dozens of the snub-nosed dogs in paint, porcelain, bronze, plaster, embroidery, even a bath mat and a pug-headed cane. 
Two green-jade Maori war clubs, gifts to the Prince of Wales during a visit to New Zealand in 1921, were to be sold Sunday despite 11th-hour appeals by government officials and tribal leaders in New Zealand for their return. 
Ethnologists said Maori tradi­tion requires that a gift be returned once the recipient no longer wants it or dies. 
Sotheby's spokesman Matthew Weigman said Fayed foundation trustees had elected to sell the clubs, and "several" advance bids had already been received. They were valued at $3,500 each. 
Separate sessions were reserved for sale of the couple's extensive wardrobes. 
Hers included dozens of gowns and dresses by Chanel, Dior, Givenchy, St. Laurent and Valentino, while the Duke, a diminutive 5-feet-4, with a 31­inch waist, left behind closets full of suits, military uniforms, for­mal wear, tweeds and yachting blazers, many reflecting the relaxed American styles he often favored. The morning coat and trousers he wore to his wedding on June 3, 1937, was valued at $10,000 to $15,000. 
Cinema Fri & Sat. 

at the Snite 7:30 and 9:45pm 
Presented by ND Communications and Theatre 


VIEWPOINT 


page 10 Friday, February 20, 1998 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---====================== 
THE OBSERVER 
NoTRE DAME OHICE: P.O. Rox Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OffiCE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergasr Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie l feisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski Sports Edi<or.. ................. Mike Day Advertising Manager.......................-......Jed Peters News Ediror ........................... Hearher Cocks Ad Design Manager ................... Jennifer Breslow Viewpoint Editor.. . ......... Kelly Brooks Production Manager ......................... Mark DeBoy Accent Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ....................... Michael Brouillet Sainr Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller ............................................ Ky1e Carlin Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the srudents of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's Coll~e. It d()('s not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither insritucion. The news is reponed as accurately and objcctivc:ly as possible. Unsigne:d edirorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of the Editor-in~Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News 
Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Spons Edimr, Accent Editor, S.aint Mary's Ediror, Pharo Editor, and Associate News Editor. Commencaries, letters and Inside Columns present the views ofthe authors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The frtt expression of varying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-)323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  631-4 543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  63I-4S40  Fax  631-6927  
Day Ediror/Viewroint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint. I @nd.cdu  
~cneral  Informauon  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  
• RIGHT OR WRONG?  

When·Strong Bodies Fight 

Could Mother Teresa have had a eon­nection to the Bengal Bouts? Surely not as a competitor. And we have never had a weight class that went that low. Instead, the connection was, and is, more basie. 

Charles Rice 
ller life. her death, drew world atten­tion to the efforts of her Missionaries of Charity in a part of the world where lloly Cross missionaries in Bangladesh do the same work with the support of the Bengal Bouts. 
Mother Temsa's task, as she defined it, was to providH "free service to the poor and the unwanted, irrespeetive of cash~, en~ed, nationality or race." 
"TIHl poor," slw said, "give us much more than we give them. We have so rn ueh to leam from them." 
This thought was frequently echoed by Father Edmund Goedert the 1997 posthumous recipient of the Bengal Bouts Award, who worked 38 years in Bangladesh and served as chaplain to the Boxing Club after his return to Notre Dame. "Proceeds from the Bouts," he said to the boxers, "have assisted the missionaries in their work of maintaining schools, dispensaries and feeding the hungry in the poorest eountry in the world." 
So the first reason we should support the Bengal Bouts is to participate in the eiTorts of the lloly Cross missionaries as they do the great work brought to the attention of the world by Mother Teresa. Dominic J. "Nappy'' Napolitano, director of the Bengal Bouts from 1931­1981, epitomized thispurpose of thfl Bouts: "Strong bodies fight that weak 
bodies may be nourished." 
Beyond that, the Bouts themselves are a unique athletic phenomenon that ­could happen only at Notre Dame. "In 1931," wrote Chicago sports columnist Bill Gleason, "Father Vincent Mooney had an idea. Notre Dame's students would put on a boxing show. Proceeds would go to the Holy Cross order to help the priests with their missionary work in India. The students wouldn't merely sponsor the bouts; they would fight in them. Mooney took his idea to a 23­year-old student assistant in the physi­cal education department ... For anyone who has attendfld Notre Dame, the words 'Bengal Bouts' have only a little less meaning than 'The Fighting Irish."' 
"In the beginning," wrote Gleason, "one college kid said to another, 'Let's have a team for the students.' Somewhat later a coach said, 'Let's have students for the team.' And that was the start of the kind of recruiting which led to the current scandal caused by phony transcripts of credit. Evp,ry now and then there is an event that reminds us of how campus sports were run in the time before athletic directors and huge coaching staffs. The Bengal Bouts are ... as purely amateur as a sport can be." 
"One of the most special things about the Bengal Bouts," said Coach Tom Suddes, "is that you may end up in the ring with your best friend, and after the final bell rings the relationship is even stronger than it was before you stepped onto the mat." 
As Coach Terry Johnson noted, "The Bouts attract the same type of guys every year. They are out to try some­thing new and really listen and work hard. We teach traditional, stand-up style boxing the same way Nappy taught it for 50 years, and we have always approached boxing as a sport, not a fight. The guys understand this and are dedicated to the idea of sports­manship, camaraderie and boxing for the missions." 
The principle changes over the years, Johnson pointed out, have been contin­ual improvements in the safety of our programs. 
"Nappy always made sure that injuries were not a part of the Bouts," said Johnson, "but now with the contri­butions of Dr. Moriarity and the medical staff, the safety factor has been formal­ized and risks are minimal for the box­ers." 
The student ol'licers of the Boxing Club run the program under the super­vision of Coach Johnson, a Chicago attorney, Coach Suddes, a Columbus, Ohio, developer, and Coach Pat Farrell, 
'THE POOR GIVE us MUCH 
MORE THAN WE GIVE 
THEM. WE HAVE SO MUCH TO 
LEARN FROM THEM.' 
Mother Teresa 
who is the University pilot. 
"Any member of the Club," said presi­dent Ryan Rans, "will tell you that par­ticipation in this program is the most memorable experience of his Notre Dame career." The other officers are Lucus Molina, Sean Sharpe, Fred Kelley, Tommy Will, Mike LaDuke and Brian Gaffney. 
"Our primary emphasis," said Molina, "is on safety. We have never had a 
1 
serous injury in the program and we mean to keep it that way." 
Dr. James Moriarity, University chief of medicine, maintains a close watch on the program. No contact is permitted in practice without EMTs in attendance. Trainer Jack Mooney and his assistants, Jack Zimmerman and Sweet C. Robinson, maintain a high level of skill and efficiency which itself is a protec­lion against i11jury. 

Jack Mooney, 85-years-young, was with Nappy at the beginning. lie was Knute Hockne's paper boy, and Hockne himself smuggled Jack onto the side­lines at home football games. Jack has been an inspij·ation to countless mem­bers of the Boxing Club. 
Junior Emily Schmidt is indispensable in her handling !}I' the administrative details of' the program. Assisted by Molly O'Hourl:e, Emily has the title of ol'lice manag£r, but she is really the brains of the tlUtfit. Her dedication and ability explair, why the Bouts netted a record $23,0(,0 contribution to the mis­sions in 1997. 
"The reasor for being of this pro­gram," she said, "is to send the maxi­mum possible contribution to the Holy Cross Missions." 
On the 25th anniversary of his ordi­nam~e, Goede -t wrote, "What do I have to show for 2!i years besides a bunch of used calendars'? Not much. But, through the !\lasses, I havn made I lim pres1mt to the usands of' people over thousands of Jf times and places. Often the places where lin's never been before. I have made Him present to somfl who might otherwise never have known Him or His Good News. I have made a few rr.orn awarn of' the Christian call,ng and a Christian's duties toward others. And, with your help, I have made the lives of some a little easier, a little happier, a little more Christian." 
The 68th B1mgal Bouts will be held this Monday <.nd Wednesday with the finals on Frid 1y. We hope you will sup­port this effort. 
Mother TertJSa would approve. 
Professor Cnarles Rice is on the Law School facultp and is advisor to the Boxing Club. dis column appears every other Friday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of Ute author and not neces­sarily those of The Obseruer . 
• 000NESBURV GARRY TRUDEAU 

• GUOTE OF THE DAY 
"There are years that ask questions and years that answer." 
-Zora Neale Hurston 
• 



VIEWPOINT

Friday, February 20, 1998 page 11 
From Boys Men 
We hear it all the time: ,.WI'no SliJ:JEl: man?" Who's the dominates? Who takes wiiat<hErW'tU'rts: and who deserves the mostrespeet? "I am" is the answer to these ques~ tions, then I ask you again:Whois the man? Who can accept andlearnfroni his weaknesses and subordination l-;; from his mistakes and defeat? Who 
Bob Kerr 

says. "I can be a better man?" 
To "turn the other cheek"is arguably one of the most difficult things to ask of a man. A male is naturally inclined to prove his manhood, but our social val~ ues have undefined true manhood, and the choice between "the man" and the better man is a difficult one. 
The better man obviously turns his cheek while maintaining his integrity; but as a true man he needs no applause. More important is the e)tpe· rience of "the man." Ironically, "the. man" is still a boy, but dealing with a difficult decision such as this, he can test and eventually prove his trueinan­hood. Does he recognize his mistake and assume fully responsibility for his weakness? 
Unfortunately, in our increasingly competitive community, there is little room for mistakes and "men" cannot afford not to be "the man." Notre Dame is a symbol of excellence and perfec­tion, and hopefully men will graduate closer to excellence and perfection, but this is a symbol, this is an ideal. · 
The problem is that too many otus 
cannot appreciate the value ofan Id~al, 
an·d too many of us forget ()llr natural 
limitations. Man was never created 
with the ability to embody asy.mbolor 
an ideal. Man was created imperfect, 
but God blessed him with the capacity 
for self-reflection and inlprc:rvement. 
As Notre Dame men, we are blessed 
with the opportunity to grow in the 
shadow of the Dome, and we are 
blessed to be able to contribute to the 
excellence and perfection of the .com: 
munity. Despite the common miscon· 
ception, we are unable and note:li:pect­
ed to be the Dome. 
If you are still determined to be "the 
man," remember you must first n()t he 
the man. In The Four Quartets: East 
Coker. T.S. Eliot explains: 
"ln order to arrive at what you dii not 
know. You must go by the way which is 
the way ofignorance. . 
"Jn order to possess what youdo not 
possess. You must go by the way ofdis­
possession. 
"in order to arrive at what you are 
not. You must go through the wayin 
which you are not." 
Before you know everything, you. 
must first know nothing; before yo1;1 
possess strength, you must possess 
weakness; and before you are truly a 
man, you must accept ym.tr imperfec~ 
tions and take responsibility for your 
actions. 
It is a difficult thing to swallow 
pride and keep your m. 
long as you know you wUl 
"the man" without lettinge_· vervo]ie 
know, you are moving iri 
direction. We all know 
hate to lose, so retneJnn,er 
as you arelearning what 
your own man, you can't . 
Bob Kerr is soJOn£Jm~r;re 
His column app 
The views 
are those of 
sarily those 
• lETTER TO THE EmTOR 


Special Thanks from Brumbaughs 
Dear men and women of Notre Dame, 

When we first learned of Justin's passing we felt an enormous void, as if we were two lonely strangers left in the cold and dark. However, from the moment we stepped upon the Notre Dame campus it was if gigantic arms engulfed us in warmth and affection. The clergy, teachers and administration were uncommonly wonderful, and it is with spe­cial endearment that we will ferever treasure the kindness and love of Justin's many friends and classmates. You have now become our adopted sons and daughters forever in our hearts. 
With all our love, 

Keith and Joyce Brumbaugh Bolingbrook, IlL 
• CAPITOl COMMENTS 

Junior parents should look back at lessons of the last 20 years 
Two decades ago, the juniors who will accompany their parents this weekend on campus were barely tod­dlers. Jimmy Carter, the last Democrat in the White House, wrestled with such unlikely problems ranging from unrest in the Middle East and gasoline short­ages at home to new human fertiliza­tion experiments promoted by govern­ment agencies. Disco dominated the music charts, and clothing fashion had reached new heights. Moms in their platform shoes and dads with their long sideburns and bellbottom pants dreamt that their babies might one day share the upcoming weekend at Notre Dame. 
If time had frozen 20 years ago, those strolling on campus this weekend would be like Brady families, caught wearing outdated clothes, speaking in outmoded phrases and being quite dif­ferent from everyone else. Most of the moms and dads knew that fashion styles change, but probably had no idea that anything like "Hip Hop" would ever exist. None of those moms and dads could have anticipated the explo­sion of our language caused by the computer lingo of bytes andRAM, modems and Zip drives. Certainly, cloning existed only in science fiction movies, and rap was not a form of music but a description for conducting deep conversations with teenagers. 
Some contend that many, including some church and university leaders, prefer to freeze their thinking in the time of the late 1970s. While platform shoes are making somewhat of a come­back today and the Brady Bunch has enjoyed two feature-length movies, our world is a smaller and less private place. Part of our new intrusion on pri­vacy is currently focused on the leader of the free world. However, for all the personal questions swirling around the latest Democrat president, Bill Clinton has done a stellar job compared to Jimmy Carter. 
The strides in genetic studies to pro­
long life and fertility procedures that 
assist couples in beginning families has 
outpaced any 1970s imagination. Could 
anyone have written a script where one 
twin brother is born seven years after 
the other? A long-forgotten frozen 
embryo was brought to term recently 
which led to the birth of the younger 
twin this past week. 
Telecommunications strides have 
given each of us instant communica­
tions with anyone around the world or 
beyond in the space shuttle. Trying to 
communicate with a loved one in the 
military during the 1970s sometimes 
could take two weeks via snail maiL 
Today, families can exchange e-mail 
several times a day with their sons and 
daughters serving in the military. 
Twenty years ago students at Notre 
Dame advocated co-educational hous­
ing options, but settled for apartments 
off campus. The football team had just 
completed a national championship 
season which made almost everyone 
feel exhilarated. Gay students at Notre 
Dame, not quite as happy, were trying 
to organize their organization and 
"come out" from the shadows of shame 
and their ostracized existence. Students 
engaging in premarital sex usually did 
not use condoms and thus risked unwanted pregnancies and disease. 
Today, personal ads in The Observer ring out with a very different tone. The fight over equal treatment of gay stu­dents, not officially recognized and therefore not able to use campus facili­ties for meetings, is being compared in a Feb. 11 ad to the "Progressive Student Alliance." The ad wonders why the unrecognized alliance group can use facilities. Is it because the alliance does not offend traditional thinking and embarrass anyone with a public rela­tions nightmare? 


Gary Caruso 
Frequent ads soliciting babies is another 1990s occurrence. Just last week, two familiar ads appeared again on Tuesday and Wednesday. The Feb. 10 "Adoption is Love" ad was paid for by "Shawn and Meg," while the Feb. 11 edition's "Ed and Ellen," the "happy, caring professional couple" are once again offering to "provide a new born with love, joy and security." Could it be that the regular use of condoms is the very reason these ads flourish in a Catholic university's student newspa­per? 
It is interesting to some to note that 20 years ago the Vatican effectively removed itself from active politics when it forced its clergy to abandon any elected offices they may have held. Two Catholic priests who were U.S. Congressmen at the time retired, and the Church expected Catholic laymen to carry the Church's political water. Governors like Mario Cuomo, unjustly vilified by fellow Catholics, could not immediately reverse their stands on issues that were favored by their Church but opposed by their con­stituencies. 
Our world is so complex today that many ideals of two decades ago are in need of redefining. For example, fami­ly planning and contraception make sense in poverty-stricken and AIDS­torn developing countries. Acceptance of gay children by their parents as called for by the U.S. Catholic bishops is a preventive measure against breaking up families and decreasing teenage sui­cide. 
I often wonder how Carol and Mike Brady would have handled two very real Notre Dame graduates with whom my life has brushed. The first is a man I met while I volunteered on a soup truck in Washington, D.C. He was older than I, but he had graduated from Notre Dame and earned an MBA degree. In the early 1980s, he told his parents that he was gay, and his father immediately disowned him. The son turned" to drugs, lost everything he owned and became destitute on the streets. 
The other was a woman who also 
graduated from Notre Dame, but after me. She was daddy's little princess and was raised in a very strict Catholic home where her mother dominated the social order. However, she fell from grace when her boyfriend fmally talked her into sleeping with him at the end of their sophomore year because he was about to participate in a semester away from Notre Dame. Her one indiscretion in the early 1980s caused her to become pregnant. 

When she approached her mother together with her boyfriend, the moth­er thought that the two were going to announce an engagement. After they told her mother that she was pregnant, her mother was so outraged with denial that she slapped her hands only once, but so hard on her thighs that she caused two large and deep bruises. The girl was whisked away to another city to have the baby and forced to immediately give it up for adoption. 
I often ask myself if the corny Carol and Mike Brady would have offered simple but more loving solutions to these two troubled Domers? I believe that in these instances, the 1970s would need no updating because Carol and Mike would have put family and love above pride and social rigidity. As it turned out, the man was rescued by a social worker who graduated from Saint Mary's College and whose older brothers knew the man. To this day, he continues to remain sober and has reentered society as an upstanding and respected professionaL He is a commit­ted volunteer who helps others with similar problems. 
The woman, on the other hand, 
haunts me because I have lost touch 
with her. When I last saw her several 
years ago, she was fighting the demons 
of loneliness and child abandonment. 
She wanted her child and needed to 
somehow find fulfillment and inner 
peace. Her strained relationship with 
her parents seemed to be doomed on a 
collision course when I last saw them 
together. Each party avoided the issue, 
yet she hungered for a solution. 
Nothing is ever a black and white issue, especially in today's constantly changing and complex modern society. As the babies of the 1970s now walk as juniors this weekend with their par­ents, they might contemplate the pros and cons of conformity and stagnation. Twenty years from now, many of them may be trudging across an ever­expanding Notre Dame campus with their junior sons and daughters. It may be better even then, in the fantastically ultra advanced 2010s, to be more like Carol and Mike Brady when it comes to embracing their children. For when it comes to your children, I repeat, "Nothing is ever a black and white issue." 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame '73, 
worked at the U.S. House of 
Representatives for 18 years andfor 
the International Union ofElectronics 
Workers (JUE) in Washington, D. C. His 
column appears every other Friday and 
his Internet address is dchottline@hot­
mail.com. 

The views expressed in this column 
are those ofthe author and not neces­
sarily those ofThe Observer. 
page 12 Friday, February 20, 1998


ACCE-NT 





Here's to you Mr. Robin_son 
A
lthough no one in the family has ever attended Notre Dame or is Irish, they've always been very big Notre Dame football fans ... particularly. Mr. Robinson. He grew up in the middle class suburbs of Baltimore. Every Saturday afternoon he watched the Blue and Gold wreak havoc on opposing teams. When it came time to apply to colleges, he wanted to apply to Notre Dame, but his family's finances would not support his dream. John attended Catholic University where he lettered in football all four years. 
It was shortly after he graduated from Catholic that he met his future wife, Thelma. It was anything but love at first sight. He tried using one of those timeless pick-up lines like, "You must be tired, you've been running through my mind all day." Eventually however, the street smart, young vixen, Thelma, a real estate broker at the time, saw through his rough exterior. They eventually got married and had a wonderful son, Era, (they're not obsessed or anything) who is now fulfilling John's dreaming of going to Notre Dame. They bought a nice house in the middle class suburbs and bought a few dogs and cats, all who have the name of same famous ND foo1.ball player. Little do the older Robinsons realize that Era really wanted to go to NYU film school and become the next Stephen Spielberg. The only problem is, he is prone to breaking camera~•. 






Dancing in D.C. 
T
he Williams family hail from the Washington, D.C., where father, Earl, and mother, Andrea, are both well­established lawyers. They commute together everyday to the city from their home in Fairfax, a mere twenty minutes from their five bedroom, four bath, split-level ranch home. Their three car garage, stocked with three Jeep Cherokees, is adjacent to the fully furnished basement which provides the children with a recreational room and Earl with a place to watch Monday Night football on his 48-inch television. 
Earl, who graduated from Notre Dame Law School, met his beautiful wife on a blind date for the Saint Mary's All-Campus Formal. He was impressed with the way she handled herself in light of the behavior of peers (and how good she looked in a dress). Since then they have been dance partners as well as husband and wife. 
Earl and Andrea raised their children so that one day they can come back to South Bend and visit their clones in the very same dorms in which they resided. 
Tony, their son, spends his time on the computer trying to decide which sequel to a video game he should make. Super Mario Brothers 13 or Pac-Man: The New Adventure. No mat­ter what he does, he will be successful. It seems to be in the blood. 

.I.

ACCENT

Friday, February, 20, 1998 page 13 

Irish Eyes 


.­

T
he McCarthy family hails from a suburb right outside of Boston, Mass. Pat, head of the McCarthy clan used to be in the Irish Guard and is quite excited about his return to the "homeland." Mom, Mary Kate, is the type of moth­er who knits matching hat, scarves and mittens, all stitched with the Notre Dame emblem for her children and their room­mates. She is also a professional business person, who actually strives to have her own talk show. Look out Rosie O'Donnell. 
At least twice a year, Pat and Mary Kate fly out for a football game and take everybody (kids and roommates) out to Macri's or CJ's. A point of interest, the McCarthy family throws great tailgaters, but you have to get there early, or Pat may charge a cover. 
Pat and Mary Kate met nearly forty years ago, when young Patrick fell off a swing set at the wholesome young age of eight. Mary Kate rescued the ill-fated Patrick from the ground with a kiss on the knee. At the ripe old age of ten, she was an older and more mature woman. Since that fabled day, the couple has not spent more than two days apart, joined at the hip one might say. 
Their daughter, Samantha, a promising young biologist, wants to one day save the world from what she calls "The Willies." She is also looking to get herself out of a "self-imposed" hiatus from men. 

Notre Dame? 

T
he J ohnsons come from the back bayous of Louisiana and have a very powerful hand in the "craw-daddy" industry. One might say a monopoly. The patriarch of the Johnson family, who goes by the name of Jack, is the son of a fish farmer and grew up in the murky swamps of Louisiana. He never heard of football, let alone Notre Dame, until his son got the acceptance letter three years ago. But he sure knows how to fish. His wife Marge, on the other hand, is a city girl from Frankfurt, La., a thriving metropolis of 3,000. She met her beloved, Jack, at an alligator wrestling match. Jack was not the one in the leather. Marge was intoxicated by his bruiting dark looks and his ability to throw around a rep­tile. True love? I guess so, they've been together for the past twenty years. Happy Anniversary Mr. and Mrs. Johnson. 
Their love child, Jack Jr., known as J.J. by his very close friends, aspires to be an awarding winning poet, and hopes to one day escape from the pitfalls of bayou life. Notre Dame seemed like the way out. To J.J., attending college in South Bend was like moving to New York City, but there was a foil in his plan. He longed for those Cajun "craw-daddies." They just aren't the same in the Midwest. 

.... page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 20, 1998 
•NBA 
Clippers send slam dunk champ to Heat 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

If ever a deal made sense, it was the one made by the Los Angeles Clippers and Miami lleat shortly before the NHA trading dPadline. 
The Clippers sent Hrnnt Barry, the 1996 slam dunk champion, to the Heat on Thursday in exchange for Isaac Austin. rook­ie Charles Smith and a 199S No. I draf't rhoiee. 
The teams played each otlwr at the Analwim Arena several hours later, with the Heat win­ning H9-HO. Neither Barry nor
-. 
Austin played. 
Barry, who will be a free agent at the end of the season, told the Clippers he did not intend to re­sign with them next summer. 
lie's expected to be the third guard in Miami's rotation behind Tim Hardaway and Voshon Ll'nard. 
Austin will also be a free agent this summer, and it was extreml'ly unlikely he would return to the Heat because of salary cap restridions. 
Miami coach Pat Hiley said the 26-year-old Barry, the son of former NBA great Hick Barry, will be sidelined for another 5-6 days because of a sprained right ankle he suffered Monday against llouston. 
Barry IPI't for Miami after hearing or the deal and was sdwduled for a physieal exam today. 
"We feel extremely pleased with what W!) were able to get for lk£)," Riley said. "Ike was a very, very important part of our team. We're going to really miss him. But we feel we get back a very young player who is excit­ing. lie has great size, a player who can play (three positions) f(,r us. We feel like he has a real huge upside." 
Barry was averaging 13.7 
points. 3.5 rebounds and 3.2 assists for the Clippers. 
"Re-signing Brent is a priori­ty," Riley said. "We looked at a number of scenarios. Had any­one have considered something better than Brent Barry, it would have taken two or three of our starters. 
"I feel very good with Brent in this deal. lie's exactly what we needed. lie can score, he can shoot, he's got a lot of skills." 
Riley said the 28-year-old Austin is a quality player and quality person who will help the Clippers. a team without a potent center. 
"Ike has great skills, but I never felt nor was I ever led to believe that we were anything more than a longshot in re-sign­ing him. and I don't blame him," Hiley said. "He's got a life to live and a family to take care of." 
Because of salary cap rules, the Heat could offer Austin no more than the average NBA salary -about $2.8 million ­for next year. 
Austin will be commanding about twice that when he becomes a free agent. and the Clippers will be far enough under the projected $31-$32 million 1998-99 salary cap to be able to meet his price. 
"They're showing me the dedi­cation as having me as a player. That's all you need," Austin said. "They've traded a good player to get a player, and I think these two months are a feeling-out period for them as well as me." 
Austin. in his lif'th NBA season. thrived in a 22-game stretch earlier this season when he started in place of the injured Alonzo Mourning. lie was aver­aging 12.7 points and 6.3 rebounds in 52 games, including 25 starts. after being named Most Improved Player last sea­son. 



Pippen,jJulls down Raptors 
Associated Press 
Sco'ttie Pippen was on the move•. all right. 
Pippen shook loose for three· 3·pointers in the first six minutes Thursday night and gave the Chicago Bulls an early lead they never lost in a 123·86 romp over the Toronto Raptors. 
The game at SkyDome started sh(}rtly after the NBA's trading deadline passed. Pippen has talked much of the season about wanting to change teams, but the only deal the Bulls made during the day involved send­ing Jason Caffey to Golden State. 
''There were some doubts. You never know what they're going to do," Michael Jordan said. "I would have been somewhat surprised, but not totally. They're going to do whatever they want anyway." 
Pippen, who scored 22 points. said that as the dead· line approached, "I figured there was no possibility of my being traded." 
Jordan scored 16 points and Dennis Rodman had 19 rebounds for Chicago. None of the Bulls starters played in the fourth quarter. 
In other NBA games, the Los Angeles Lakers beat Denver 131-92, Miami topped the Los Angeles Clippers 89­80, Indiana beat Philadelphia 82-77, San Antonio defeated Dallas 87-81 and Houston downed Detroit 100-90. 
The Raptors had just nine players, including only two of the six they got· in trades ·in the past week. 
''It's tough when you have to come out for your first game against the Bulls," said Roy Rogers, sent from Boston to Toronto a day earlier. "But overall, we have a great amount of talent here, though it's definitely going to take some time.'' 
Lakers 1.31, Nuggets 92 
The Lakers ended their longest losing streak of the season at three as Rick Fox scored 22 points and Kobe Bryant 21. 
Shaquille O'Neal added 19 points and 11 rebounds as Los Angeles, with its most­lopsided win of the season, beat Denver for the seventh consecutive time. The 5-47 Nuggets lost their fifth in a row overall. 
LaPhonso Ellis and Johnny Newman scored 19 points for Denver. 
The host Lakers used an early 17-1 run to take a 64­38 halftime lead. They did it even though starting point guard Nick Van Exel was at home with a cold and a sore right knee. 
Heat 89, Clippers 80 
Alonzo Mourning scored 28 points and P.J. Brown had a career-high 20 rebounds as Miami beat the Clippers at Anaheim. 
Earlier in the day, the teams made a trade. The Heat sent backup center Isaac Austin, rookie guard Charles Smith and a 1998 first-round draft choice to Los Angeles for Brent Barry. None of those players suited up for the game, and both teams had just nine players in uniform. 
Rookie Maurice Taylor scored 17 points for the Clippers. who lost their fifth straight game. 
Pacers 82, 76crs 17 
Reggie Miller keyed a third­quarter run as Indiana sent Philadelphia to its eighth straight road loss. 
'[he game was tied at 46 before Miller scored seven consecutive points during a 13-2 spurt. 
Dale Davis scored 14 points for the Pacers. Derrick Ccleman matched his season hi ~h with 18 rebounds and had 16 points for the 76ers. 
.Joe Smith. who traveled all ni~ht to join the 76ers after being traded by Golden State or Wednesday, missed his first six shots in his debut. He fir,ished wit.h seven points. 
Spurs 87, Mavericks 81 
Tim Duncan had 26 points and 16 rebounds as San Antonio defeated Dallas for the seventh time in a row. 
The host Mavericks were at earl 56-46 midway through the third quarter before the s.r,urs reeled off an 18-1 run. 
Duncan led the way in the absence of David Robinson, w 10 has missed two games b£ cause of an inflamed right kuee. Robinson's condition w.1s to be re-evaluated today. 
Hookie Bubba Wells scored a season-high 21 points for tb e Mavericks. Shawn BJ'adley had 13 points and 15 rebounds. 
Rockets 100, Pistons 90 
Clyde Drexler scored 29 points and helped host Houston pull away from D•)troit in the fourth quarter. 

Drexler led a 10·2 run after the Pistons pulled to 72-69. C 1arles Barkley had 14 points and 14 rebounds for tbe Rockets. 
Joe Dumars seored 19 for D~troit. 

Official Scott Wall sustained a concussion during warmups when he was hit by a male dancer doing back­flips. Wall was knocked to tlte floor and missed the game. 
Classifieds  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­sifleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge s 3 cents per character per day. including  
all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classific.ls for content without issuing refunds.  
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS:  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOME FOR  Russian. 7 yrs exp. Rus. teacher  good times. noodle pasta.  
NOTICES  Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for  NEXT SCHOOL YEAR GOOD AREA NORTH OF NO 2773097  FINNIGAN'S  for foreigners. Private & group lessons all levels & translations  but some people don't GET noodle  
- Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/t.  handicapped cnildren. Located on shore of Lake Superior near Big  POTATO HOUSE 8 BEDROOM  and will feature the greatest Mardi Gras tribute band this  Yulia: 243-1079 leave message  pasta.  
Europe $290 o/w Other worldwide  Bay. MI. Positions available for  FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR  evening only ...  !!!!!!Happy 21st Birthday!!!!!  carpe diem ...i mean. what would  
destinations cheap. ONLY TER·  Counselors, Waterfront. Instructors  2773097  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!I!Laura!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!l!!!!!!  your MOM say???  
RORISTS GET YOU THERE  for Nature/Arts &  UMPHREY'S McGEE  
CHEAPER! Air-Tech (212)219·7000. (800)575-TECH.  Crafts/Recreation/Canoeing/Kayaki ng, Nurses, Therapists, Food  FOR SALE  who will be playing all of your  my spanish class is nothing but needless busy work.  details.  
www.airtech.com  Service, and Auxiliary. Must be  favorite Mardi Gras tunes and  I'm tired and I do not want to do it  one more time...strongsville  
enthusiastic. responsible. and love  93 Ford Explorer· EDDIE BAUER  much, much more. So come out  
NEED HELP DOING YOUR  children. Salary, room & board, and  Loaded w/leather etc... 65K-Dk.  and be a part of the revolution and  It's time to party,  Erin-­ 
TAXES. BUT DON'T WANT TO GO  experience of a lifetime provided.  green w/ tan $15,500 obo. call  show how much you love your city!  Laura is 21  I can't wait to see you.  
ANYWHERE FOR THE HELP? I  Call or wrile for application and  David 234·1 840  woo-hoo!!  All my love,  
WILL COME TO YOU!  information. Bay Cliff Health Camp,  Ethan  
Call Shane at 243·5638  31D W. Washington, Suite 300,  OPEN HOUSE: Sunday February  Ott-Broadway Musical at Notre  hey karen- 
ILOST & FOUND I  Marquette, Ml 49855, (9D6)228· 5770.  22 • 2-4 P.M. Woodbridge Condos 53455 Stoneridge For Sale: Convenient condo living  Dame? SEALOVE, MANAGER original musical direct from NY Washington Hall  massage oil? ice cubes? whipped cream?  ATTN JUNIORS: pick up your JPW tickets in the Sorin Room of LaFortune between  
I lost my day planner (of province).  FOR RENT  just a few blocks from Notre Dame. 3 Bedrooms, 2 full baths & access  Feb 26, 27, 28 @ 7:30 $7 ($4 students)  frozen fruit? I You're a naughty little girl. ..  1 and 7 p.m.  
If found, please call Ann Goodwin  to clubhouse with pool & work out  Buy Tix at Lafortune  KK·  
@ 273-9942.  FURN, 1 BDRM APT., AIR, PRI- room. Corner unit with contempo- Wanted: Person providing informa­ jiggy. and you know we are going to  
VATE KITCHEN. ENTRANCE,  rary flair. Attend open house or call  tion leading to the capture of Suz·t  rock the world. thanks for your  
LOST: GRAY WOOL "OLD NAVY"  LAUNDRY, PHONE, UTILITIES  Trace Cole at 243-9565 for more  88.9 FM 88.9 FM 88.9  Kelly will be rewarded. Do not  enthusiam chica!!!! i'm psyched.  
COAT AT O'NEILL DANCE ON  INCLUDED $400/MO, ROOM  information.  approach! She is Alum, Class of  
SATURDAY. PLEASE CALL MONI·  $200/MO.  The DUNN BROTHERS perform  '97, former PB resident. Please c.lll  hey Lezlie ...when are we going to  
CA@  272·0615.  Mac PowerBook 190cs. 8/500.  live on WSND with Nate & Ferg this  800-LUKN-4-LV with information.  play karate in the hallway  
634-3948.  $ 500. Call Leopold at 273 9275.  Sunday from Midnight ti12am. Tell  again...minus the falling down of  
2·6 BDRM HOMES.FURN. NEAR  a friend to listen to the show for  Meredith @ Holy Cross Annunciala:  course. doh!!  
WANTED  CAMPUS.AVAIL. NOW & FALL.272·6551  PERSONAL  insomniacs like YOU ­NOC­TURNE (Modern Rock)  You were a wonderful Valentine. Billy & "Fred" still owe you a night to remember because you provided us  i'm ready for my good times. noodle  
NATIONAL PARK EMPLOYMENT·  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  88.9 FM 88.9 FM 88.9  with one we will not soon forget.-­ pasta.  
Discover how to work in America's  JPW AND OTHER ND-SMC  I've always wondered why Mardi  
Parks. Forests & Wildlife Preserves.  EVENTS.  Gras doesn't take place in South  Michiana Paintball at Scottsdale  Stop the madness I  but what if this is as good as it  
Competitive wages + bonuses I  VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5  Bend. In South Bend, we have a  Mall. Now open for indoor/outdoor  gets?  
Seasonal/year·round. For informa·  MIN. DRIVE OR 15·20 MIN. WALK.  thriving culture, tropical climate, and  play. Students w/Nd-SMC ID · 1/2  We were all about breathing  
lion, call: 517·324·3111 Exl.  243-0658.  bustling commercial district. After  price field fee.  last weekend.  doh.  
N55842  all, what does New Orleans have to  291-2540.  
offer? The point is, we plan to  the 'ville ... had to put it in for you  SHOOT!! I  
MODELS/DANCERS WANTED  ALL SIZE HOMES  make South Bend the new home for  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  CMN!!I  
please call 219·271·0633  CLOSE TO CAMPUS  Mardi Gras. and we're going to start  babbling brooks in summer.  all right, i'm out of this week's inside  
232-2595  this TONIGHT. That's right, tonight.  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty fire·  i'm in here. awake. make lots anc  jokes. friends, romans, countrymen,  
So you can laugh yourself silly  place in winter. Love and joy for  lots of noise.  i am sorry to disappoint you.  
Asst. Instructor needed May·August  about all of those people who drove  your baby all year long. Happy, car- 
for horseback riding program. Pay +  98'-99' yr. 6 bedrm. 2-car gar.  14 hours to go to what is now the  ing professional couple would love  we need more space. definitely.  He's a bad mother ..  
house & horse.  sand V -ball ct. washer/dryer.  "old" Mardi Gras, because the  to provide a new born with love, joy  much more space so i can sit here  Shut your mouth.  
Experience helpful!, not necessary.  1628 Portage Av. 234·3831  "new" Mardi Gras will be taking  and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ awake and you can make lots an j  I'm talking about Mark.  
Call Sarah 287·6450  273-0482  place at the greatest Irish Pub  800·484-7011 Pin #4523  lots of noise.  I can dig it.  
in the world:  

Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Canseco starts spring training with Blue Jays 
Associated Press 
.Jos.e Canseco got a quick wakeup on his first day with the Toronto Blue Jays. When he stepped to the plate Thursday, he saw a very familiar face. 
"It was the first time facing live pitching and I've got to face Clemens." Canseco said. "I let Ed Sprague go first so Roger could work out the kinks on 
h.
lm. " 
Canseco and Clemens were teammates on the Boston Red Sox in 1995 and 1996. Now they're trying to turn around Toronto, which hasn't been above .500 since winning the World Series in 1992 and 1993. 
"I hope this year I can stay away from the injuries," said Canseco, who has been dis­abled nine times in his career and averaged fewer than 96 games during the past five sea­sons. 
Canseco homered off 1996 Cy Young Award winner Pat llentgen during batting prac­tice at Dunedin, Fla. He knows his home run and stolen base totals have been cut by the injuries. 
"The last four or five years has hurt my career. I should have had 400 homers by now," said Canseco, whose career total is 351. 
''I'd like to achieve 30-30 this year, and if I'm healthy 40-40 is possible. Right now I want to 

Boston's Naehring recovers from elbow injury 
Associated Press 
FORT MYERS, Fla. 

Tho eight-inch scar runs along Tim Naehring's elbow, a bright red reminder that his career may be over. 
He couldn't brush his teeth, feed· him­self or shampoo with his right arm. He didn't even wear a tie to recent business meetings because the arm wouldn't bend enough for him to put it on. 
"It was tough packing my stuff to come to spring trainibg, knowing that I was throwing a glove in a bag and wouldn't be able to use it for a while," he said. 
The Boston Red Sox third baseman knows about serious injuries. He had operations on his back and right shoul· der and spent time on the disabled list in six of his previous seven seasons. 
But he was enjoying one of his fmest years when he made an off-balance throw last June 23 at Toronto. He knew immediately something was wrong with his elbow. 
It turned out to be a torn ligament and a torn capsule that holds the joint together. Dr. Arthur Pappas, the team physician, said. Thursday he knows of no other case like that. · 
Pappas performed surgery on July 30 and the rehabilitation seemed to go well. Naehring even played racquetball in Novembel'. But in January, there was a problem. His range of motion was restricted. 
A cortisone shot didn't work, so about four weeks ago he had a procedure in which scar tissue inside the elbow was broken. That enabled him to bend the elbow again, Pappas said; but the tight­ness returned whenever he threw a ball 
, or swung abat. Now, Pappas said, Naehring must regain that range ofmo~ion hefote he can take the next step. . "Will he play again? I expect he w;ill." Pappas said, although he doesn't kriow when. 

Everybody plays at the College Football Hall of Fame! Experience the excitement of an action-packed game, test your skills, or learn from legendary coaches. There's something for everyone at the College Football Hall of Fame! 
• 
360° Stadium Theater 

• 
Training Center 

• 
Pigskin Pageantry 

• 
Hall of Champions 

• 
Strategy Clinic 

• 
Bowl Games & National Championships 

• 
Great Moments 


1.800.440.FAME 

( 1.800.440.3263) 
http://collegejrJotball.org/ 
219.235. 9999 
=

Foun.ding ~ UNITEDSTIJ.TES • -Alka·
Sponsors: l!iifPOSTili. SERVICE,. KING 
Seltzer 
play the game and be the play­er I was four, five years ago." 
At Kissimmee, Fla., Andres Galarraga hit the first home run as Atlanta began full-squad workouts. 
Galarraga, hitting third after Andruw Jones, drilled a drive onto a grassy hill just beyond the left field fence. 
"It feels good to hit the first one," said Galarraga, who signed a $24.75 million, three­year contract with the Braves. "Now I can relax." 
Galarraga, who hit .318 with 41 home runs and a league­leading 140 RBis with Colorado last season. had just blooped a ball into short right field. 
"That would have been out in Coors Field," quipped Ryan Klesko, waiting on deck to hit after Galarraga. 
"That's part of the game, just having fun," said Galarraga, who drove from his home in West Palm Beach, Fla., in a Mercedes with his nickname, "Big Cat," on the license plate. 
At Jupiter, Fla., St. Louis Cardinals pitcher Alan Benes did his best to quash rumors he aggravated his surgically repaired shoulder. 
''I'm just trying to take it easy enough not to have any set­backs," said Benes, 9-9 with a 
2.89 ERA in 23 starts last sea­son. 
Benes, 27, wasn't expected to be ready until May after surgery for a torn rotator cuff last September. It could be late March before he starts pitch­ing. 

"We're shooting for May 1," Benes said, "but that's not in stone." 
At Phoenix, the usually late Rickey Henderson reported to the Athletics' camp on time. In the past, Henderson typically didn't show up until shortly before the team started its exhibition schedule. 
Henderson, signed as a free agent, said the heavy rains in California in recent weeks had interrupted his workout regi­men so he decided to get to spring training to work on con­ditioning. 


Marlins may lose two more 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Fla. 
The Florida Marlins lost four starting pitch­ers, two top relievers and the leading hitter from their World Series championship team. 
The best of the bench may be the next to go. 
Reserves Jim Eisenreich and John Cangelosi helped to give Florida perhaps the best depth in the major leagues last year. They were the garnish on the roster, but it's unclear whether the budget-con­scious Marlins can afford even garnish anymore.· 
Eisenreich and Cangelosi arrived for spring training this week wondering whether the Marlins will trade them before the season starts. 
"We're pretty laid back and not worrying about what they're going to do," Cangelosi said Thursday. "But I hope they keep us both." 
That's doubtful. Eisenreich expects to be dealt away because he'll make $1.4 million this year, more than the Marlins want to pay for a backup outfielder-first baseman who turns 39 in April. 
"Understand, I am an old man," he said with a laugh. 
Cangelosi, 35 next month, has a better chance to stay because his salary is only $550,000. He would pro­vide much-needed out­field experience, particu­larly in center, where 22-year-old rookies Mark Kotsay and Todd Dunwoody will battle for the starting job. 
"Cangelosi is still a question mark in this 

mix, manager Jim Leyland said. "If you're able to keep a guy like Cangelosi, you're able to protect the young guy a little bit from throwing him to the wolves too much." 
Another potential plus is that Cangelosi is a switch-hitter, while the two rookies and new left fielder Cliff Floyd bat left-handed. 
"I have a feeling I'm going to stay, but you never know," Cangelosi said. "I think if I do stay, I'll play a lot more than last year." 
A year ago Cangelosi ­hit just .178 as a pinch hitter but .296 in 31 starts. Eisenreich hit .280 with 19 doubles and 34 RBis in 293 at-bats, and in an expansion sea­son, both players still have considerable mar­ket value. 


You're Not A Teenager Anymore!!! 
20! 

love Mom, Dad, &Thomas 

Voted: Area's Best Tanning Center Every Year 
c--------,
IUnlimited TanningI or 
1Onl~ Up To Spring 1 I Break I 
L<:-:~~ ~~!~J 
University Commons 
by UP Mall 



272-7653 

r--------,
I 10 Tanning I 1 Bed 1 I Sessions I 
L~n_!;! J~~:...O~J 
Grape & McKinley 
.. 

near KMart 



256-9656 

~~---·---·--------. ~ ------------~ 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 20, 1998 
-------------------------------~~--~~~ 
., 



CHEERLEAD I Nli 


•Spacious 2bedrooms (over t,ooo Sq. Ft.) 
•4blocks from campus (nowyoucansleepin!) 
•August thru May Lea.ses Available
Attn: Men 
Come check ou~ the exciting sport of cheerleading, Notre Dame's 

•Now Leasing for Fall1998
only C:OED vars1ty team.. Hie program is in need of athletic and outg~1ng men. No prev1ous stuntmg or gymnastic background requ1recf. 

Call 234=f 9923 f<D>r the 1bcst
BE A PART OF NOTRE DAME TRADITION 
The cheer program needs talente9 women too. Please join us at the: 

wallllle in <D>ff=fcanllRJ>1lll§ lii wing~
lnformatzon Meeting 
Thurs., Feb. 26 -6:30 p.m. 

)Jllllnlllg!'tH Hy
Gym I, Joyce Center ReaH EstLate l'\[anagcm·Pn1 CoD'll}OdaUon
Leprechaun Candidates should also attend this meeting 


-.-.r===========~~~·========~==· 
Men's Tennis Saturday 
FeL. ~1st 



TS. Purdue .. @1:00p... Eck Tennis Pavilion 


Baske~tball 



Sunda,y 
Feb.22:nd 

vS.Mia1ni 
·@Noo:n 
-
• JOCK STRIP 

U.S. hockey team fails to meet expectations 
Disappointing. This one word sums up the feelings of every member of the United States Olympic hockey team. In a week 
t h a t -------­
brought us Gene Brtalik () a I e Sports Writer Ernhardt's -------­first Daytona 500 win, Herman Maier's reeovery from a devastat· ing crash to win two gold medals, and the U.S. women's hockey team winning the first gold in women's ho<:key. the fifth place finish of the men's hoekey team was one of the most embarrassing moments is 
U.S. Olympic history. Here is a tt~am made up of' professional hockey players and the only team they could beat was Belarus. Let's assess the problems. 
Rumors are swirling about this team. They spent too much time out having themselves a good time. But I believe it was the players who wanted to rough it in the Olympic village unlike their bas· ketball Dream Teamers who lived lavishly. The whole idea of living 

· in the Olympic village· was to keep priorities focused on their mlsslon -winning the gold. Instead they took advantage of their accommo­dations and spent the night visiting places like the Pink Elephant (a karoke bar in the heart of Nagano). 
To make matters worse, after losing on Tuesday night, the U.S. team decided to destroy t11eir res!~ dem~es, like a bunch of drunk col­lege guys after they get back from the local bars. Maybe living with the other athletes wasn't a smart move. 
Egos caused another problem at these winter games. The U.S. hockey team came in all mighty, bearing their medals from the August 1996 World Cup of Hockey. They figured if they showed up, they would win. Right now, they are reconsidering that decision. 
Every U.S. player was so confi· dent theY. would win the gold medal, tllat tlley thought the pre­liminary round didn't matter that much. Their coach, Ron Wilson, even agreed with this strategy. He figured by the time the medal round rolled around. Team USA would hit their groove and play in the gold medal game. 
The team's lackadaisical approach landed them a game against the Czech Republic in the medal round. This meant they would have to face one of the NHL's best goaltenders and the MVP of the league last year. 
Ron Wilson also must be blamed for this embarrassment. He didn't make the adjustments that needed to be made until the medal round. 
Overall. the players didn't play up to expectations. With six 50­goals scorers, the team should score more than nine goals. They had open nets and they couldn't put the puck in the goaL 
The U.S. hockey team's perfor­mance was a disgrace to the loyal hockey fans who expected them to win more than one game. Hopefully when the games go to Salt Lake City in 2002, Team USA will be more focused and have their priorities straight. 
• SOFTBAll 


Irish set goals to wln. Big East 
By BETSY BAKER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame softball team is wasting no time testing its ability to compete with the top-ranked teams in the nation as it kicks off its season this weekend at the Gladstones Tournament at the University of South Florida in Tampa. 
The Irish will take on ninth-ranked Kansas and 10th-ranked South Florida today, and Auburn and DePaul tomorrow in an effort to see where they stand among the nation's best, and whether they can return to being one of them. 
Last season was the first time in four years· that the Irish did not advance to the NCAA tournament, due to a pitching staff that was not 100 percent healthy. However. head coach Liz Miller hopes that will change this year. 
"What happened last year is that we had the strongest hitting lineup we've ever had, but one of our best pitchers got injured and we didn't have a strong enough pitching staff to take us as far as we had gone in the past," Miller explained. "This year, we've added two new pitchers, and Kelly Nichols is back, so we should have a solid staff." 
Nichols, one of the team's two senior captains, will be looking to fill in the hole left by the graduation of all­American Joy Battersby, and with her 21-12 career record and 18 saves, she appears to be on the· right track. Nichols only needs two more saves to become the NCAA all-time saves leader. a record currently owned by Cal Poly Pomona's LoriThompson with 19. 

Nichols will be joined by junior Angela Bessolo and freshmen Jennifer Sharron and Melanie Alkire who are expected to come in and make an immediate impact. 
The biggest question for the Irish remains one of fill­ing in the gaps left by the five graduated startnrs, three of whom started all four years at Notre Dame. 
Miller maintains confi­dence in both her returning players and a talented corps of freshmen, however, and hopes that the early-season tournaments like the Gladstones will give the team the unity and cama­raderie needed to be suc­cessful. 
"Our focus is in going out and playing hard, and throwing it down without worrying about wins and losses," Miller commented. "Of course we always go out to win, but it is more impor­tant for us now to develop some unity among the play­ers and a consistent rhythm in our play." 
The fact that the Irish will immediately face two top-1 0 teams is actually a matter of coincidence. Miller explained that the tourna­ments arr srh1~rlulr>rl n year in advance, but teams do not exactly know who they arc playing until a few months prior to the tourna­ment. 


Still, both Miller and tlw players are confident the 1rish will perform well and .tgree that it is the b(~St thing !'or the team. 
"I think it is good for us," 
V1iller said. "It is definitely 
~oing to give us an idea of 
..vhere we are and what we 
1eed to improve upon." 
Senior .Jenn Giampaolo, w all-American outfielder ..vho, after limited time with lhe team last snason. has returned to thn starting line­up in center field. con­c:urred. 
"It's the best way to start -throw yourself out there and put it all on the line," Giampaolo said. "We've never started out above .500 in the early-season tourna­ments, but this year we are a lot more confident. 
In the past. we'vn kind of sold ourselves short bm:ause we hawm't practiced outside or had any games, but this year we're going in saying 
we are the team to beat." 
Although this weekend should shed some light on where the Irish can set their goals nationally, tlwy have already set one definite goal within the conference. 
"Our No. 1 goal is to win the Big East," Miller said. "We've bnen in it for three years and have never won it, so that is what we want to do this yPar" 

-------------~~----------~---~------·-~ -­
Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• MEN's lACROSSE 


Returning seniors will lead Irish lacrosse team 
By TOM STUDEBAKER the Irish, with seven returning and DAN LUZIETTI starters and a solid recruiting Sports Writers class. This year's squad is com­prised of quality depth and 
Aiming for the title, the Notre experience which could make Dame men's lacrosse team is the difference for Notre Dame back. Expectations are high for over the course of the season. 
.Feb. 21 BROWN Noon PENN STATE 1:00 p.m. at Air Force 1:00 p.m. at Denver 1:00 p.m. 

h...;a;41.%w at Loyola 11:30 p.m. March 21 RUTGERS 1:00 p.m. 
The 


The~niversity Hairstylists 
prb-yd to introduce the latest a ti~~Jn their staff, Janet, who is ~Jieensed nail technician. 
Located in the lower level of LaFortune, her hours are~nd Wed. 12-5, and Sat. tl~.(\ 
) 

For an appointment, call ~~44. 
Headlining the list of Irish returnees are four players who are arguably as good as any­body in the country at their positions -seniors Jimmy Keenan (midfield), Todd Rassas (defense), and Alex Cade (goalie), along with junior Chris Dusseau at attack. 
"With the experience and depth we have returning this season, guys are going to have to earn their way onto the field," said head coach Kevin Corrigan. "This is a team whose strength will be in its senior class. I expect, too, that we will have some freshman who will help us out." 
Some of the freshman the team will look to are Dave Ulrich and Steve Bishko. Both hope to contribute to the Irish success as they see more play­ing time. 
On the Notre Dame attack. Dusseau and senior Ned Webster promise to be a potent scoring combination. Dusseau has led the team in scoring in the past two years for a total of 58 goals and seven assists. The Irish will count on them to con­tinue this success as they head into the 1998 season. 
The Notre Dame midfield unit has the potential to be the most productive in school history, and is capable of scoring a lot of goals. The heart and soul of the midfield unit is Keenan. He was a two-time honorable men­tion all-American honoree and scored 12 goals while passing off a team-leading 28 assists last year. 
The Irish defense is led by the outstanding play of Rassas. There may be no finer defense­men in the country than the two-time Irish all-American. Notre Dame will count on his play as they look to the upcom­ing campaign. 


The last line of defense is Cade. He has been Notre Dame's most prolific goalkeep­er and has ranked among the nation's leaders in goals­against averages in the past three seasons. Last year he posted a 5. 76 save percentage and registered an 8.86 goals­against average. The Irish expect Cade to maintain his standard in the net this year. 

The team's first regular sea­son game is March 1, when they play Penn State. The team will be fine-tuning its skills against Brown this weekend, the scrimmage is at noon this Saturday at Moose Krause Stadium. 



iAIDIT4TIOM OF THI PIOPLI 

~t f.') : 

:}(/),:.../ 
..... .
((l;... ,__,., _,.\' 
",;·· 
•.; ·} 
. :,·~~~:~~· .. 
/ I ~~·~·•' 

/ // -·;:;J~lLL.J 

The B.C.A. F. Annua/B!ak. ko{t ··''~j! is coming fo }Vofl"e Dame 
on F~iday1 Feb. 2Qfh1 af 7:30p.m. in f/te LaFo~fune Sfudenf Cenfe~ Ball~oom. Semi-Fo~ma/ AHi~e is Requi~ed Also1 f/taf nighf we will be p~esenfing fhe Tftu~good Ma~sfta/1 Scholarship Award fo fwo ot-1fsfanding f~eshmen. 

page 18 
• BASEBALL 

Irish head south to face Hurricanes 

By ALLISON KRILlA Sports Writer 
Weather forecasts in Miami call for strong storms this weekend, as thn Notre Dame baseball team heads south to light through a three-game serit)S with the No. 7 Hurrit:anes. 
The Irish (2-3) are coming otT u two-game stint in New Orleans where they lost an 11-inning thriller to UNO and earned a come-from-behind vktory against Loyola (La.}. 
.Junior righty Alex Shilliday, who settled for a no-decision after throwing seven innings against UNO, is slated to start Friday's game. Shilliday and tho rest of' the Irish pitching statf face a formidable 'Canes line-up with "a heart of the order that's probably the best in the country," aceording to Notre Dame head coach Paul Mainieri. 
Senior rightt'ielder Jason Michaels (.378, seven HR, three 2B. 17 HBI) bats third for the Hurricanes, followed by junior third baseman Pat Burrell, the No. 1 profession­al prospect in eollege base­ball, and junior tirst baseman Aubrey fluff (.361, three HR. three 2B. eight HBll in the fifth spot. In J996, Burrell became the tlrst freshman to lead the nation in hitting (.4841. and is already on a torrid pace this year, batting .444 with seven homers, three doubles. 18 HBI and seven walks. 
"It will be an interesting match-up." said Mainieri, "with our pitehing against their hitting. Pitching is our strength. and hitting is theirs. We don't expect to shut them down completely, but to work hard against their No. 1, 2, 6, 7, 8, and 9 hitters. so the heart of the order comes to bat with no one on base." 
Offensively, the Irish have struggled with clutch hitting, leaving 12 men on base in the loss to UNO. 
"(Leaving men on base) is a concern," said Mainieri. " But we've worked hard at hitting in the dutch during practice. I think we can attribute the way we've been hitting lately to the fact that it's still early in the season. We traditional· ly start off swinging the bats slowly, until we play on a more regular basis. 
"I was happy with the fact that we hit well enough last weekend to get the opportu· nity to put that many guys on baso." 
Mainieri will rely on Brant Ust and JeiT Wagner to cart'y, the bulk of the offensive load, although the key to beating Miami will be "multiple run innings," Mainieri comment· ed. 
Ust and Wagner are hitting a combined .375 with 10 RBI, but the entire Irish starting lineup has contributed with at least one HBI apiece. 
Tho Hurricanes present a tough task for the Irish. but the weekend series will not be a benchmark for the team. 
"l don't think it's fair to say that the way we play this weekend is a true test of where we are right now," said Mainieri. "The University of Miami is one of the hardest places in the country to visit and win. No matter what happens, we're just going to go out and play hard." 


M. 8-ball 
continued from page 24 
we have to do, so it's just a matter of exeeuting. If we play our game, well be line." 
After a six-game slump in which he shot just 39 percent. Garrity seems to have finally regained his old form. The all­American candidate seared a game-high 31 points in last Tuesday's 88-79 loss to Conneeticut as the Irish played what may have been their best all-around game of the season. 
"It was good to see Pat come out and have a big game for us," said MacLeod. "lie has struggled a bit over the last few games, but he seems to have shot his way out of it." 
The biggest surprise against the Huskies was the play of Garrity's supporting cast. Center Phil Hickey ehipped in 16 points, shooting guard Antoni Wyche added 13, and point guard Martin Ingelsby contributed nine points and six assists. 
If the group matches that effort on Sunday, they should up their mark to 13-11 (7-9 in the Big East) and improve their ehances of receiving an NIT bid. With just three games left in the regular season, the thin margin for error is beginning to weigh on the psyche of MacLeod's squad. 
"We're not panicking or any­thing like that," said Ingelsby. "But we know that we need to start to put things together so we can start the post-season on a high note." 
But first things first, the Irish must pull themselves out of the rut. 

The Observer/John Daily The Irish will look to Antoni Wyche, Nho scored 13 against the Huskies, for a repeat performance against the Hurricanes. 

(219) 272-7376 -130 Dixie11ay South 
(U.S. 31 in Roseland) at Howard Johnson's, South Bend, IN 

.o/A" !!6/u/1-p .31f3oo//e o/a; .//"6o/¥~~ .%A on ?5/:,_nylaJ 
,:.; 'Y'""' fr/"' ~;,.",~fr.J/. &//td.' U/tdr&:rvul/~' J~/-'t''/1 rATy.; ,-, ,,~~~ .C$,,£-' ,,, ~/10~1'6 ~u/.rw ~nr~ /,,-,,/,//o/1 ,,,dyorr/~'/lfT/"""'//,J d,:.; '"£-'",l;,~~'~d/ 





ndvitler 
is now hiring for the positions of 
Store Ma11ager and Sales Clerk 
for next school year . 
Applications can be: picked up in the store (basement of Lafortune) 
Monday-Wednesday 7-lOPM Thursday-Saturday 6PM-12AM 
and are due in the store no later than March 4 for prospectiv~ Managers and March 18 for prospect ve Sales Clerks. 
Please contact Laur1 Stevenson at 4-4121 or stop ir the store if you have any questions. 
~ ~-------~~-----~----­

0--­

Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 19 

• MEN'S TENNIS 



Notre Dame looks to build on two straight wins 
Saturday at 2 p.m. when he at the No. 3 position, he beat weekend with a strong showing His bullet serves will beBoilermakers attempts to haul Purdue over top-notch, Notre Dame gradu­from Ryan Sachire and Matt essential to defeat Purdue's Notre Dame. ate Ryan Simme last year. Horsley. Danny Rothschild and Jamie Gordon. Gordon, lastline-up will "I used to r-----,-,,---...., Even without the three-time Vijay Freeman have also year's Regional Rolex champi­give lessons 
South Bend Tribune Player-of­become a deadly combination, on, pulled out a win overchallenge Irish to [Myers] the-Year, Purdue has been while Brian Patterson and Florida's top man and lOth­
until he was fairly successful. While Myers Jakub Pietrowski have recently ranked national competitor By SHANNON RYAN 14," Bayliss was sick, the rest of the team unknotted their early tangles. earlier in the season. Sports Writer recalled. filled in to defeat a strong Pietrowski has been practic­Despite the recent success of "He's always Wisconsin team. ing with the confidence he the Blue and Gold, the team 
Playing at home has its been a great "Their top four can beat any­gained last weekend in a must be careful not to overstep advantages. Unfortunately for player." one in this part of the country," strong win over Miami. After a the bounds of self-assurance thn Irish. one of the traveling The Irish Bayliss said of Purdue's top­disappointing winless streak, into over-confidence. 
Patterson

Boilermakers will also experi­are hoping heavy line-up. "Their top two the senior, playing No. 2, ''I'm guardedly optimistic," ence a kind of home court that after following two consec­doubles and top four singles defeated renowned and power­Bayliss said. "They're a lot bet­advantagn at the Eck Pavilion utive losses with two straight scare me the most." ful Diego Ayala. ter than [their ranking]." this we(Jkend. wins, Bayliss's coaching will The Irish will come out with Rothschild's consistency and The usually profitable Irish 
Derek Myers. a South Bend not pay off for Myers as much history on their side. Notre Patterson's decisive determina­should not be shortchanged native and one-time prodigy of as it has for them. Dame has not lost to Purdue in tion will also be key for the either. With signs of the dou­Irish coach Bob Bayliss, will be In the past, Myers has Bayliss' 11-year reign and also 23rd-ranked Irish to win a bles finally clicking and the making a homecoming appeared well-taught. Playing holds a 37-8 all-time record third straight. solid line-up, the Irish may be 

over Purdue. However, Sachire will have to a better bet. 

For the Irish to beat the play the role of the smoking "Everyone looks fine and Boilermakers, the doubles will gun once again. Last week. the we're hungry," Bayliss said. need to continue to play like sophomore boasted a win over "We've seen some good teams last weekend. the No. 3 player in the nation so far and know what the level 
After going 0-3, the Irish and lost a close battle to the of play is. We'll just have to pairs won two straight last second ranked player. meet that." 
This week in practice has
Hockey been a good one for the Irish. 
"Without going into particu­continued from page 24 lars, we focused on team play," said Noble. "We had short and
Northern Michigan, which cur­intense workouts, and hopeful­rently sits in fifth place, seven ly that will carry over into thepoints ahead of the Irish. On games this weekend." 

Saturday night, they will face In addition to intensity, theLake Superior State, which sits Irish hope to revive their covet­

just two points ahead of the 

ed power play. They have theIrish in the standings. 
third-best power play in theSuccess in this weekend's 
league, trailing only Michigan 
contest, according to Noble, 

and Michigan State. Last week­hinges upon the squad's ability end, especially against Western
to outwork their opponents 

Michigan, it was not as effec­which the Irish did not do last tive as usual. The Irish went
weekend. It resulted in two zero for six on power playlosses, including Saturday 

chances Saturday night.
night's loss at the hands of cel­

If the Irish can play with
lar-dwelling Western Michigan. 

intensity and revive their
"Both teams this weekend power play, they will indeed are hard-working teams," he 

create the momentum that they
stated. "We need to play 

will need to carry them into the intensely, to come out and out­post-season.
work them." 
Ir--------------------------------------,I 
I I I I I I 

~ememher when learniniJ was Fun? : 
I I 
I I I I I I I I I I 


INTRODUCING ~ 
THE STANDARD DEVIANTS 

i 
. I 
?Te.:e\\'1. '1,\\~T" :



$5 I 
: Qa'-1 

...~~··· ! 
I 




OFF!

I I I I I I I 
Educating and entertaining videos covering more than 30 difficult college courses. 
I I I I I 
I
L.......... It still is. 
I 
I I I I I I I I I I I I 
Limit 3 per customer : 
1 
L--------------------------------------~ 

~-------------~--~ --­

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, February 20, 1998 
.. 
ball extremely well. We went
• TRACK 
oul there and were very focused." 

continued from page 24 However, one of the biggest 
W. B-ball 

Tracksters ready for Big East 
impacts for the Irish was the 

WHO: Freshmen, Sophomores and Juniors 
WHY: You want to run for class office or off-campus senator or off-campus co-president 
WHAT: Pick up your candidate information packet 
WHEN: By Friday, Feb. 20 
WHERE: Student Gov't Office (2nd Floor Lafortune) 

The Irish Connection 
'Jt• ~4-~~ 
Proudly Presents 

Friday Feb. 20 10:30 show 
Ska and Jazz -2 great bands! 


SKIUMDU• • . 
With special guests Cloud Nine 
~~ ltn {«.~ aZ 3 fu'H­
Sandwich, cJzips, & a drink -$3.75 
Saturday Feb. 21 

JPW Danc:e Party 
Party all weekend long-and let Mom & Dad 
pick up fhe bill 
0wS25 ~· Hill St. South Bend 233-8505 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame track and field team will compete in its biggest team meet of the indoor season this weekend -the Big East championships in Syracuse. They hope to bring home a first-ever title on the men's side and improve on last year's sixth-place finish for the women. 
A Big East title for the men would indicate that Notre Dame track and field has risen to a new level of eompetition. Georgetown is favored to win, but Connecticut, Villanova and Miami could also present chal­lenges. 
"We want to contend to be in at least the top two teams on the men's side," said head coach Joe l'iane. "There are those people that think that Georgetown is unstoppable, but if we compete up to our capabil­ities, we have a legitimate shot at beating them. · 
"On the women's team. we would like to improve on last year's sixth-place finish if we can. and that's going to be diffi­cult. It's a gmat conference for track, especially for the women with Georgetown, Villanova, and Miami. 
"Th!l key to success will be bdng able to be aggressive and step up to the next level of com­petition. A lot of kids arc dou­bling and tripling races." 
In order to contend for the titlfl, the men will need all of their athletes to score well in the events they arc expected to. They will also need some help from other schools in hurting Georgetown in the 800-meter and 1000-mctcr runs. 
All-American Jason Hexing will be looking to claim his third straight Big East championship in the 5000-mcter run and junior Mike Brown will be returning from a hamstring injury with hopes of defending his title in the pole vault. Brown is ranked first in the Big East in his event, as is Marshaun West in the long jump. Other men with strong shots at individual victories are senior captain Errol Williams in the 55-meter hurdles, Chris Cochran in the 55-meter dash, and all­Ameriean Danny Payton in the 500-meter run. 
"The goal is to win the team championship. That's what everyone's got on their mind," said Hexing. "Personally, I've just got to take it one race at a time with two races each day and score as many points as I can. It's always a big help to have all your teammates behind you and cheering you on at this meet." 
Payton believes he would have to run in the low 1 :02s to come out victorious in the 500-meter run, with his personal record being 
1:02.79 at the Meyo Invitational Feb. 7. 
Cochran also wants to achieve the team goal of winning the Big East while doing whatever he can to help the team win in his events -the 55-meter dash, 400-meter dash, and 4 x 400­meter relay. 
"On the guys' side, we can be in the hunt for the team cham­pionship," said field events coach Scott Winsor. "That means the field event crew has got to be hitting on all cylinders, and if we can get out of the field events even with Georgetown or Conne.?ticut, we'll be in good shape. 
Sprints and hurdles coach John Millar said, "My goal for the meet is for our athletes to go to the meet and reproduce their best times or improve on them. There's nothing else you can ask for, and if they can do that, they'll be successful. I can't con­trol what the other 12 schools do. I just try to focus on what we're doing and make sure our group is prepared to run." 
Among the women, top com­petitors for individual titles should be Nadia Schmiedt in the 500-meter run, Berit Junker in the 800-meter run, Jenny Engelhardt in the high jump, and JoAnna Deeter in the 3,000 and 5,000-meter runs. Other key events will be the 4 x 800­meter relay and the distance medley relay. 
"Hopefully," said Schmiedt, "I can make the final in the 500, and run my best time of the year, as well as scoring as many points as I can for the team." 
our best two distance athletes in the 3,000 and 5,000 right now in Deeter and Alison Klemmer," said distance coach Tim Connelly. "We want to also get some good performances from 


Year and January '98. Summer Rentals June,August. cations for the NCM's." 
our runners and maybe qualifi­

(Check our summer ,;torage specials) The meet will be held all day 
entralair0J~ • 2 4 hour laundry
both Saturday and Sunday in Syracuse. 

included;,,, •Flexible lease plans 
•Shuttle to campus/city 
• ~Aore info: 272--1441 
TITANIC (PG-13) DIGITAL •rtfon,fri 9..5 Sat 10,3 12:00 4:00 8:15 BLUESBROTHERS (PG-13) DIGrTAL 1:15 4:15 7:00 9:40 
abc de t g h ij kIm no p q.r 5 to v w x y z
FW.JvETlO(R)1:404:407:4010:10 GOOD WILL HUNTING (R) 1:30 4:30 7:20 10:00 

SatCJrdag. February 21 
VIIEI:XHi SN?al(PG13) DIGITAL 12:15 2:45 5:00 

7:3) 9:50 ...to one of the 1:/0ungest SPHERE (PG13) 1:00 
mEmbers of the senior class 4:10 7:00 10:05 
Sat/Sun Mat. in [brackets] GREAT EXPECTATIONS (R) (1 :30] 4:30 7:30 10:00 

~~u 21st Birthday. Moyenda
THE BORROWERS (PG) [12:45] 

[2:45]5:00 7:15 9:15 AS GOOD AS IT GETS finally you're not a baby anymore/ (PG-13) (1 :00]4:00 7:00 9:50 
abc de tg h ij kIm no pq.r 5 to v w x y z 
ret Jrn of sophomore Niele lvey to the starting lineup. Ivey. who suffered a hip pointer minutes into the St. John's gamn on Feb. 12, was forced to sit out of the nc:'t game against Pittsburgh. Ag.tinst the I loyas, she scomd six po111ts and grabbed five rebounds in 24 minutes of play, helping clinch Notre Dame's 
101.h straight home win. 
"I think having lvey baek in the lin·mp is really going to help us, de 'ensively in particular. She brings a lot of intensity to us," said McGraw. 
1~nother player who stepped up for the Irish this weBkend was freshman phenom Huth Hiley. Thn (,-foot-5 center re-~orded her third consecutive double-double against the lloyas with 11 points and 11 rebounds. Hi ey currently ranks second in the Big East in blocked shots, averaging 2.2 rejections a game. 
The clash between the Irish ar d the Huskins is set to tip oil" to norrow at 2 p.m. in the Harry 
A. Gampel Pavilion. 
"Definitely a goal is to run an NCAA qualifying time in the 5,000; definitely to run under 16:40," said Deeter. "I also want to get some points for the team in the 3,000." 
"I think we've got probably Muffet McGraw said of the match up with the I Iuskies. "We haven't played a ranked team since December, so it's a great measuring stick for us. It's a chance to see how much better we have gotten since the last time we played Connecticut. Also, Storrs [Conn.] has a grnat basketball atmosphere to it." 
Meanwhile, Notre Dame has taken full advantage of a three­game homestand, sweeping the series by an average margin of 24 points per win. The latest vic­tims of the Irish were the Georgetown Hoyas, who left the Joyce Center with a disappoint­ing 80-54 loss. During the game, the home team used stifling defense to hold the Hoyas to 22.1 percent shooting. Junior Sheila McMillen had the hot hand for the Irish, scoring a game-high 21 points and hitting four of five shots from beyond the arc. 
"We played well in every phase of the game," McGraw said. "Our defense was good, we rebounded well. and we shot the 
+++++++
brought to you by: 

Student Government 

Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 ... 
• 8ENGAl 8OUTS 



Bengal Bouts captains motivate fellow competitors 
By DAN LUZIETTI 
Sports Writer 
Bengal Bouts has been a long­standing tradition on the Notre Dame campus since 1931. One of the reasons for its great suc­cess has been the strong stu­dent support of both the tourna­ment's participants and view­ers. In its 57 years of existence, it has relied heavily on the stu­dent captains. This year is no different. 
This year's captains include seniors Fred Kelly. Lucus Molina. Ryan Rans and Sean Sharpe and juniors Brian Gaffney. Mike LaDuke, and Tommy Will. The coaches rely on the captains. and expect a lot from them. 
"Captains drive the whole program. It's really the boxer's club, and who better to lead than a fellow student," explained Terry Johnson, a Bengal Bouts coach. "Not only are they in charge of trying to get themselves in shape and win the tournament, they are responsible to promote ticket sales, help with advertisement sales. and keeping everybody else motivated. It is definitely a great pleas~e to work with these guys and they mean a lot to the program." 
Each captain brings his unique talents to help instruct and motivate over 100 members of the Bengal Bouts this year. Sharpe always rises to meet this challenge, but he also recog­nizes that the Bengal Bouts give him a unique opportunity. 
"We help guide the new guys and give them instruction along the way," said Sharpe. "This can be a difficult task, but Notre Dame is the .only place where boxing is a team sport. We help each other as much as we can, in hopes of improving each oth­ers skills along with otir individ­ual ones." 
The boxers have six weeks to refine their skills and they are always looking to the captains for motivation. The captains, along with the coaches, teach the newcomers the techniques of boxing while continually training with the veterans. The captains' role as coaches is very important to a program with so many participants and Molina recognizes his responsibility. 
"Personally, I love to coach," he said. "I have been around boxing since I was 16, and I think I have more to offer as a coach than I do as a boxer. This opportunity with Bengal Bouts brings me a lot of fulfillment." 
Many of the other captains learn a lot from boxing as well. Boxing demands dedication and hard work to maintain top phys­ical condition. Kelly also recog­nizes what the sport has done for him. 
"Boxing is a great confidence builder," explained Kelly. "'It gives you a mental toughness that you'll never lose." 
The boxers learn a lot from their experience, but the most important part of their partic­ipation is the good they bring to others. Bengal Bouts raise money for the Holy Cross Mission working in Bangladesh. 
In the past, the tournament raised $20,000 through its tick­et sales and advertisement sales. This year's captains have taken the challenge of doubling that to earn $40,000. 
"We support a school, a mis­sion and a church, and the money we raise goes a long way," said Rans. "We have had an opportunity to hear some of the Holy Cross priests who have been to the missions, and it always makes us feel good to know we are doing something so special. You're having a good time here, but also helping so many over there." 


The captains have put in a lot of time, and their efforts culmi­nate in next week's tournament. The students appreciate these efforts and so do their fellow boxers. 
"The captains are really important to the program," said Steve Locher. a sophomore Bengal Bouter. "They do a lot of work both behind the scenes with the business side, and teaching the younger fighters the proper techniques for the tournament. They drive the whole program. They put in so many hours of work, and with­out them, the program wouldn't run as smoothly as it does." 





r-----------------, 
I 
271-1177 Notre Dame I 
1827 South Bend Avenue
I I I 271-PAPA Saint Mary's 

I North Village Mall 52568 I 
U.S. 31 North 

I I I 
1 Valid through 2/19-2/20-2/21 I DINE IN/ CARRY OUT ONLY 

L-----------------~ 
Visa/Mastercard Accepted 


~ Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 

• OLYMPIC UPDATES 
U.S. hockey team causes $1000 damage 
Associated Prc:ss 
NAGANO, Japan (AP) 
SomP U.S, hockey players trashed their rooms at the Olympic Village after being knocked out of the Nagano Games, and the Nlll. apologized and said it was inves­tigating who was responsible for the dam­age, estimated at $1,000. 
Chairs were broken, two apartments were damaged by firn extinguishers, and otw extinguislwr was thrown from the lifth lloor into a courtyard during the inci­dtmt. which occurred about 4 a.m. Thursday said Paul George, head of the US deh~gation in the Olympie Village. 
U.S. hockey ollidals apologized to the 
U.S. Olympic Committee for the incident and olfernd to pay for the damage. 
"Tlw USOC and our Olympic delegation are dePply disturbed by the behavior of some of our athletes," said USOC presi· dent Bill llybl. 
USOC spokesman Mike Moran said the committee was not embarrassed by the incident. but regarded it as "the individ­ual activity of vettwan, maturn athletes. The USOC is not a babysillor," 
Team USA general manager Lou 
• Lamoriello told the Newark (N.J.) Star­Ledger that the playnrs "should be ashamnd of themselves." ''I'm upset. I'm appalled to hear some­thing like that," he said. "I don't condone it. I can't accept it. Then~ is no rnason to do anything like that. If tlwy wen~ disappointed, think of all the fans who were disappointed." 
The incident occurred about 12 hours after the highly toutrd U.S. team, com­posed entin~ly of NIIL players, was elimi­nated from the Olympics in a 4-1 loss to tlw Czech lkpublic. 




D MEDALS 
IYI TABLE 
1998 Nagano Winter Olympics 
VVednesday, Feb. 18 
50 total events  
Nation  G  s  8  Tot  
Germany  9  8  8  25  
Norway  7  8  8  20  
Russia  9  5  2  16  
Austria  3  5  7  15  
Canada  5  5  4  13  
Netherlands  5  4  2  11  
United States  5  2  4  11  
Finland  2  3  5  10  
Italy  2  6  2  10  
Japan  4  1  3  8  
France  2  1  3  6  
Switzerland  2  1  3  6  
China  0  4  0  4  
South Korea  2  0  1  3  
Czech Republic  0  1  1  2  
Sweden  0  1  1  2  
Belarus  0  0  2  2  
Bulgaria  1  0  0  1  
Denmark  0  1  0  1  
Ukraine  0  1  0  1  
Belgium  0  0  1  1  
Kazakstan  0  0  1  

G-Gold, S-Silver, B-Bronze 
AP 
• SKIING 


Compagnoni wins third gold 
The Associated Press  
SIIIGA KOGEN, .Japan  
Deborah Compagnoni was  
not about to let it happen  
again. not in the event she  
has ruled for the past few  
years.  
A day after blowing a big  
first-run lead and getting a  
disappointing silver in the  
slalom, Compagnoni thread­ 
ed her way down an icy  
giant slalom course to  
become the first Alpine  
skier to win gold medals in  
three Olympics.  
She also joined Vrcni  
Schneider and Katja  
Scizinger as the only women  
with three Alpine golds.  
Compagnoni took a lead of  
nearly a full second into the  
second run Thursday night,  
and expanded that to 1.8  
seconds on a course that  
other skiers complained  
was the toughest they'd  
ever encountered.  
"Between the two runs, I  
thought of yesterday. when I  
had a huge margin after the  
first run and then I lost  
gold," Compagnoni said. KAT Photo  
"But this time it was giant Deborah Compagnoni took a 1.8 second lead in the woman's sl<ilom yesterday to become the  
slalom, my favorite race, first Alpine skier to win three Olympic gold medals.  
and I had an even bigger  
lead."  snow fell during both runs,  broken shinbone and  Compagnoni is uneomfort­ 
Compagnoni finished with  The second run was moved  intestinal surgery, finislwd  abln in thn spotlight, but has  
a two-run time of 2 minutes,  up 45 minutes because of  the first run with a lead of  become the target of Italian  
50.59 seconds to successful­ the deteriorating weather.  .94 seconds over France's  paparazzi and headline  
ly defend the title she won  "The course is very diffi­ Sophie Lefranc.  writers because or her  
in Lillehammer.  cult and now with the rain  Compagnoni also held a  romanct~ with Alessandro  
She also won a gold medal  it's impossible," said Herwig  big lead after the first run of  Bcnetton, heir to the cloth­ 
in the super-Gin 1992 at the  Demschar, the U.S. women's  the slalom a day earlier.  ing company fortune,  
Albertville Games.  coach.  only to lose the gold to  A small band of Italian  
Alexandra Meissnitzer of  "The only woman who can  Germany's Hilde Gerg by  fans ehanted "Deb-Deb­ 
Austria won the silver  ski this course is  six-hundredths of a second.  Deborah" at the finish line.  
medal in 2:52.39 and  Compagnoni."  But Compagnoni's spedal­ Aftrr wrapping up he.r victo­ 
Germany's Seizinger, win­ Seizinger's bronze gave  ty is the giant slalom, in  ry and seeing her time,  
ning her third medal in five  Germany six of the 15  which she is two-time  Compagnoni turned to the  
days, was third in 2:52.61.  medals in the women's  defending world champion.  crowd and raised her arms  
"Deborah, she is better  Alpine events at Nagano.  It's the event in which she  in triumph.  
than the rest of the world,"  The Austrians have been  won nine straight World  "This gold is very impor­ 
Meissnitzer said. "It was the  even more dominant in the  Cup races, a streak that  tant to me because it came  
most difficult course and hill  men's races, taking seven of  ended just last month.  after yesterday's silver  
I've ever skied on. It was a  the 12 medals so far, with  "It's a very difficult and  medal, which was a great  
really demanding race."  the slalom remammg  technical course, the kind of  achievement but disappoint­ 
Seizinger won gold  Saturday (Friday night  course I like most,"  ing to me because I came so  
medals in the downhill and  EST).  Compagnoni said of the  close to the gold," she said.  
combined earlier this week.  Compagnoni, who has  Olympic giant slalom. "It's a  Lef'ranc finished fifth,  
Meissnitzer was a bronze  overcome a series of physi­ course where you must usc  behind Germany's Martina  
medalist in the super-G last  cal problems throughout  your brai~s in addition to  Ertl. Andrine Flemmen of  
week.  her career that include  your legs.  Norway, third fastnst on the  
A mixture of rain and  surgery on both knees, a  The soft-spoken  first run, finished 10th.  


•SKIING 

Tomba crashes in giant slalom 
The Auodated Press He felt better 24 hours after the Tomba skied a spectat;ular seeond 
crash, said Allisia Tomba, his· sister run to take the silver medal. 
SHIGA KOGEN, Japan and spokeswoman. He inspected the That nade him the first man to win Alberto Tomba has always had a slalom course and likely will race in an Alpine medal in three straight flair for the dramatic. So maybe he's the event on Saturday (Friday night Olympics. He also won gold in the saving his best for last. EST), she said. However, he did no slalom and giant slalom in 1988 and Though it might be too much to training. the GS in 1992, and silver in the 
ask, what better way for Tomba to Tomba, grimacing with pain, was slalom in 1992. finish his Olympic career than to cautious Thursday about his With ·~9 career World Cup victories grab another medal -better still, prospects. in slal<tm and giant slalom since gold -in the final Alpine ski race of "Tomorrow, l don't know," he said. 1985, Tomba has beon inconsistent the Nagano Games? "After that hard fall ... " this season and has hinted this could 
So far, the signs are not promising. Entering his fourth Olympics, be his I1st year. 
The 31 *year-old Italian megastar Tomba's expectations -and those of The .Japanese jinx doesn't help, crashed in the giant slalom Thursday. his fans '-were more modest than Thro11ghout his illustrious 13-yearHis race ended after only 18 seconds usual. But hopes for a final Tomba career. he has never won a race in of the first run when he hooked a flourish were high. Japan. At the 1993 world champi­gate, flew in the air and landed heav­The slalom is the race that presents onship!: in Morioka, he pulled out of ily on his back. him. with his best chance for a medal. the GS with a stomach ailment and 
Italian team officials said Tomba His fans will hope for a repeat of fell in the first run of' the slalom. suffered deep bruising of his back­his heroics on the final day of the "Japan doesn't bring me much side and was undergoing laser thera­Lillehammer Games in 1994. In 12th luck," he said, "''ve always failed py. place after the first run of the slalom, here." 
Friday, February 20, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 
NEXT ON ''~0/~0,''

ARE YOU THE 
J"OHN 5TOSSEL

VICTll"\ OF A 
SHOWS YOU THE

CURSE.? 


j 
CURE..
YES, I AI"\. 
~ 
~ 

.__....__ __.::....._::;___,.l...J....J...____l..J"l,__ 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 20 Robert Morse 54 Turn bad tour de force 
56 Diminutive 29 Dirt-court game suffix1 Lacking 

sign1f1cance 30 Raid 
57 Exclamation of 1 Deep Blue 32 Art lovers exhaustion

spec1alty 34Garbed 59 Fussy dress 
12 Laments loudly 36lncrease 61 Handles15 Successor of 
dramatically 
62 U.S. air-to-air Nikita 37 Wolverines' missiles16lce cream flavor nvals 63 User interface 

11 It may have a 41 Ahead 64 Actress
berth to Perth 45 ----midi 
Madeleine et al. 10 Pump 46A.MA members 
19 Brighten 
48 Burt Reynolds film DOWN21 Returns letters 49 Somewhat 1 Robin Williams 22 Cutlet? 

50 Coventry film24 Danielle's coolers 2 A going-overdarling 52 Losers at 3 Jalopy

25--B'rith Vicksburg 4 Final: Abbr. 
26 The Fair Ma1d of 53 Prog. Cons. Kent and opponent, in 5Chemist's namesakes Canada condiment 
6 Body of values 7 Thank the 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE singer a Party member? 9Gone 

1-=4~~=-l 10 Yachting event loiollliill~.=:.+.:::++~......, H~!...:..+~:!..j..:::...j 11 Mama's boys 
,...,.....~....,..-f'-"'+"'"ffll,... •7+.:::+~::+:;.-l 13 Good Olympics 
score 14 Field 15 Here, in 
Honduras 

framework 23 Found fault with 1-:P::+.:R:+:+=-H-:-"!1~-:=:-+:.:+,::,..j...::...j.::::...jllllll~ 25 1899-1902 G event 7+.;.+==-+;..+::=-l 27 Company N E division 


Puzzle by Alan Jay Weiss 
29 Hemp 31 It breaks in the 
morning 33 Unduly 35 "Women 
Ironing" artist 37 Belief in false gods 38 Operating periods 39 Found fault 
with 40 Lampoons 42 Was humiliated 
. u 
. c 
u 
"0 
c 
~ 
Ul 
." ~ 
~ 
" 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries:The world must have slowed down while you were asleep. Days go by with each passing hour. Others are unable to comprehend how you can move so quickly, or why you would want to. 
Taurus:Your patience is leg­endary today. You get your way by simply waiting for events to agree with you. Because you haven't wasted energy going the wrong way, you end up ahead by not even moving. 
Gemini:A friendly competi­
MIKE PETERS 
tion takes on an edge today. A territorial dispute lies at the root of a seemingly harmless disagreement. You may need to mobilize your forces to defend what is rightfully yours. 
Cancer:Business and plea­sure play tug-of-war with your day. Whatever you do is just not enough. Keep your impa­tience on a short leash and your mind wide open. 
Leo:A routine is a good thing to l)ave, but yours will require some flexibility today. Confusion reigns when a process becomes the end 
SCOTT ADAMS 
instead of the means. Be open to others if you want your day to run smoothly.
HA! AF"TER THE. 
Virgo:Creative collaboration COI"'\f'\ERCI.C..L I WILL GH 
pays off when others finally get VA.LUAClLE INFORr"\.C..TION 
what you have been saying. Romance twinkles in the eyes
fOR PEOPLE LIKE ME.! 
of someone who really notices you. The world feels your pres­
WELL1 WELL. 
ence today.
IT SEEM~ M't 

Libra:Sentiment is no substi­tute for hard facts in making today's decisions. Your favorite way of doing things may be impractical at this point. Small oversights will result in dire consequences. 
Scorpio:lt will be obvious to everyone that you have your eyes on the prize. Repeating a story too many times is likely to bore others. After a point, talking is no longer an accept­able substitute for doing. 
Sagittarius:Your light heart and free spirit are weighed down by material concerns today. Money and possessions take up too much of your brain capacity. It may be time to redefine your values. 
Capricorn:Dress for success today, because it may well happen. Upward mobility is not a myth to those who have earned it. Changes made at this time are likely to be per­manent. 
-· 

Aquarius:You feel boxed in today, stuck in a room of locked doors. Someone is pre­venting you from completing a task that was supposed to be easy. The current set of restric­tions is only temporary, howev­er. 
Pisces:Reality is not all that far from your imagination today. Join forces with other dreamers to make things come alive. This is a day when the friend of a friend comes in very handy. 
OLD NEMESIS, 
JOHN STOSSEL, 
l-IAS &EN 
e,usv. 


-· 


Interested in design? 
43 "Class" star 54 Saturday night 
44 Lorax creator specials 
sound 58"--Beso" 50 Sunday­(Paul Anka 

join the 
meeting link song} 51 Classical walks so Back 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 


Observer staff
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

remember your applications are due today, friday, feb. 20th 
kiss the girls 
friday, feb. 20 & saturday, feb. 21 8:00pm & 10:30 pm cushing auditorium • $2 
chinese golden dragon acrobats 
friday, february 27, 1998 • 7:00 pm stepan center • $3 ndjsmcjhcc $5 general admission welcomes all junior parents visiting this weekend! 



..  SPORTS Weekend  
page 24  Friday, February 20, 1998  

• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 
...., vs. Miami 


Irish hope to break out of rut 
By MIKE DAY Sports Editor 
It's a dangerous rut for a team to fall into. Playing to the level of ow~·s competition rarely leads to success. 
Just ask the Notre Dame basket­ball team. Over the last few weeks, tlw Irish have gone head-to-head with both the best and the worst the Big East conference has to offer. And for the most part. they have held their own. 
The trouble is. no matter who the opponent is. the Irish seem to be OJHJ step behind. Whether it's No. 6 Connecticut or league doormat Hutgers, the outcome has been 
The Observer/Kevin Oalum 

decided in the game's final min­Ruth Riley (00) is ranl<ed second in blocked shots. utes. Unfortunately, the Irish have ended up on the losing end. 
Huskies pose 
"We've played the good teams tough and have struggled against some of the teams we know we should beat," said point guard 


threat for Irish 
Martin lngelsby. "We need to be 
more consistent and find a way to By BILL HART 
finish a step ahead instead of a Spons Wrirer 
step behind." 

This Sunday at the .Joyce Center In the past week the Notre Dame women's the Irish will encounter another basketball team hc.s dominated on their own one of the "good" teams in the Big court. Conference opponents began to fear the East -the Miami Hurricanes. floor of the Joyce Center, as the team tore Last Saturday, the Irish matched through their home schedule with a vengeance. the Hurricanes stride for stride However, this Satuday the Irish will become the before faltering at the end, 66-57. visitors, as they face Connecticut in one of the 
Notre Dame committed an eye­toughest battles oft 1e season. popping 23 turnovers and connect­This week, the second-ranked Huskies ed on just 38 percent of its shots clinched the Big East Six divisional title with an from the field. To make things 86-50 triumph over St. .John's on Wednesday. worse for the Irish, Miami played UConn shot .600 ( 33-55) from the field, while without its leader .Johnny Hensley, freshman guard S1etlana Abrosimova led five who was suspended for five games players in double ftgures with 16 points for the after violating an unspecified team The Observer/John Daily game. Seniors Paige Sauer and Kelley Hunt fin­policy. After a six-game slump, Pat Garrity scored a game-high 31 points for the Irish. ished with 12 and J0 points for the game. Sales, 
Meanwhile, Maimi's impressive the Huskies' leading scorer this season. has front court combination of Tim forced 23 turnovers. We were able confident they can turn things 2,149 career point;; and needs just 29 to break 
James and Vernon .Jennings com­to control the defense early, but around this weekend. the all-time UConn record of 2,177 held by Kerry 
bined for 32 points, 20 rebounds, then we just hit a skid." "It's the time of year when we've Bascom. She leads the conference in scoring 
and nine assists. Although the Hurricanes own an got to come together and avoid and is 16th in the nation at 21.6 points per 
"Miami did a good job of defend­impressive 17-6 record, they have making mistakes," said senior for­game. Sales has also become the all-time Big ing us," said Irish head coach .John struggled somewhat after starting ward Pat Garrity. "We know what East steals leader, surpassing the former mark MacLeod. "They pressured us, they the season 12-1. Thus, despite last of 194 held by Geo-getown's Nadira Hicks. 
seeM. B-BALL I page 18

beat us to the loose balls, and they Saturday's outcome, the Irish are "It's a great opr:ortunity for us," head coach 
see W. B-BALLI page 20 

• HocKEY 

leers look ahead to playoffs 
By CHARLEY GATES to the top four teams in the 0\,er into the playoffs." Spores Writer league. However, two CCIIA 'Jotre Dame still has plenty of losses last weekend have put incentives to finish strong. If 
The Notre Dame hockey team the matter largely out of Irish they finish higher in the stand­is on the verge of clinching its hands and Notre Dame would if' gs, they will play a lower­first playoff birth in the Central need teams ahead of them to ranked team. The Irish will Collegiate Hockey Association fall fast and furiously for them h 1ve a better chance of sue­league playoffs in three years. to reach fourth place. cneding in the playoffs if they The Irish currently sit in sev­On the other hand, Notre p .ay a lower-ranked tnam. enth place in the 11-team Dame is almost a lock to make "We are foeusing on the bat­league, one point ahead of the playoffs, as they lead ninth­tle we having going with the eighth-place Ferris State and place Alaska-Fairbanks by tnams around us in the stand­two points behind sixth-place eight points. For the first time ings," mused Noble. "We're Lake Superior State. The top in head coach Dave Poulin's competing with Ferris State eight teams in the league three-year tenure, the Irish will and Lake Superior State and advance to the post-season. most likely be headed for post­vte are going to do the best that 
"Our first goal is to be in a season action. vte can to get ourselves ready good spot for the playoffs," "Our goal is to get on a roll ll nd to get on a roll !waded into remarked senior captain, Steve for the playoffs," said Noble. the post-season." Noble. "We'd like to get some momen­This weekend, the Irish play 
One of Notre Dame's goals a tum going as we head down the two away CCIIA games. On week ago was home ice advan­final stretch of our season, and Friday night they will battle tage in the playoffs, which goes then hopefully that will carry 

' 
vs. Miami, February 22, 12 p.m. 
at Connecticut, February 21, noon 
Men's and Women's Swimming at Big East Championships, February 18-21 
see HOCKEY I page 19 


at National indoor

J! aJ •Track travds to Big East 
Championships, 
February I 9-22 

~ 
champion~;hips 
at National indoor 
..... 

~ 
Championships, see page 20
CIJ
February 19-22 

• Lacrosse opens season 
t.• at Northern Michigan, 

~ see page 17
..e
February 20, 7 p.m.
,; ~­









