

Monday, April27, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 133 THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Wolin, Friedlander educate students about Holocaust 
Photographer 
reveals survivors' 
tales ofHolocaust through images 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 

P1~ople construct their memories throughout child­hood and those experiences 
shape them as they grow
into adults, according to Jeffrey Wolin, a professor of photography from Indiana University. 
Wolin began photograph­ing Holocaust survivors in 19H1 as an experimentation of incorporating photogra­phy and text in to a portrait. Wolin was especially inter­ested in the survivors' per­sonal tales. which he video­taped prior to taking the still photographs. These memo­ries shape the survivors throughout the remainder of their lives. according to Wolin. 
Wolin is perhaps most well-known for his unique strategy of writing the sto­ries of his subjects directly onto the photograph. 
When he first began work­
ing with text. Wolin drew on his undergraduate degree in 
English to rPwrite the stories in his own words before transferring them to the photograph. Over time, howev­er, Wolin realized that the personal effect comes from reading the words directly as the survivor spoke them. 
"By the seventh or eighth portrait, I stopped rewriting anything. I tried to leave it in an inflected language becaus1~ English for these people was a second. third, fourth language," Wolin said. "I wanted to show the lwauty of English with a Hungarian accent. a French accent. etc." 
Wolin recounts one of his first ses­sions with a survivor. in which he photographed the man's tattoo from 
Stepan Center,: 
Grace 


Today's Conference Sessions (HeldintheCenterforContinuingEducation) 
8:45 a.m. "Coexistence and Conflict: Gentiles and Jews in East and Central Europe" 
Gerhard Botz (Universitat Wien, Austria) Sander Gilman (University ofChicago), Micheal Steinlauf(YIVO Institute for Jewish Research) 
10:50 a.m. Response Panel to "Coexistence and Conflict ... " session 
Monika Adamczyk-Garbowska (Marie Curie-Sklodowska University, Poland) Victoria Barnett (United States Holocaust Memorial Museum) Matti Buznl (University ofChicago)
1 30 p.m. "Theology from the Depths: New Directions in Germany" 
: Hanspeter Heinz (Universitat Augsburg) · Hans Hermann Henrix (Bischofliche Akdemie, Aachen) Bertopld Klappert (Kirchliche Hochschule, Wuppertal) Peter Von Der Osten-Sacken (lnstitut Kirhce und judentum, Berlin) 
3:50p.m. "Beyond the Survivor: Aesthetic Representations of the Holocaust" 
john Fe/stiner (Stanford University) Marcia Landy (University ofPittsburgh) Alan Mintz (Brandeis University) 
8 p.m. "Art and Subject Matter: Shaping the Holocaust" 
George Segal (sculptor) 
The Observer/MaHhew Loughran 
L______________________________________, 
The Observer!T om Roland 
Aportion of Juniper Road north of Douglas Road will be closed to traffic 9 
a.m. Tuesday until 3 
p.m. Wednesday for the installation of high voltage lines to the new Warren Golf Course. 
Auschwitz. During the videotaped testimony, the survivor spoke with detachment of the horrors of a con­centration camp. On a whim, Wolin asked to see a picture of the man's father, who was killed in Auschwitz. Although few pre-war photos exist for survivors, this man's aunt had escaped to America before the war and had one photograph of the fami­ly. 
"A tear actually appeared on his cheek," Wolin said. "The thing I learned is that the snapshot can pro­vide a window to the past." 
Since that experience, Wolin has incorporated a pre-war or immedi­ately post-war snapshot of the sur-

Runner trains for leukemia race 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
News Writer 
Running 26.2 miles consecu­tively may seem like enough of a challenge for most people, but Brian Wolford is not only running that far in the San 
Diego Rock 'n' Roll Marathon June 21, he has taken on the added task of raising $2,500 in order to help the Leukemia Society of America. 
Wolford, a freshman in 
Knolt Hall, is a member of Team in Training, a pro­gram which benefits the Leukemia Society of America. Participants in the program run different marathons in order to 
help leukemia patients from their area. 
Wolford is running in honor of Ricky Hume, a 14-year-old from Rainelle, WV, who was diagnosed with Acute Myelogenous Leukemia (AML) vivor in his display of portraits. 
Although the experience of each survivor and their specific memories are varied, Wolin does notice some common themes. Many survivors recount tales of dream sequences involving parents or relatives relay­ing information that helped them sur­vive the Holocaust. 
"That occurs in a lot of survivors stories that I've heard," he said. "That particular dream or vision is something they carry with them everywhere and it borders on the mystical." 
Twelve of Wolin's survivor portraits arc on display at the Snite Museum until May 10. 
'WHEN I STARTED, I JUST THOUGHT IT WOULD BE A 
GREAT MARATHON, BUT NOW I REALIZE THIS IS A GREAT, REALLY IMPORTANT PROGRAM TO GET INVOLVED WITH.' 
three years ago. 
In exchange for making the commitment to train for a marathon and raise funds, participants receive a six­month training program and advice from volunteer coaches, as well as transportation to 
BRIAN WoLFORD rently in remission follow­
and from the marathon and lodging while there. Runners can participate in one of sever­al marathons across the coun­try held at different times of the year. 
"When I started, I just 


·Questions 
•


Increase.as time passes 
renowned opened the c~ on the front of a 
standhig~r ...... ...... crowd. 
The conference; "Humanity at the Limit: The Irrrpact of the Holocaust Experience on Jews and Christians," has brought together experts on var­ious aspects ofthe Holocaust from all over the world. Co-directed by Rabbi Michael Signer; professor of theolo­gy, and Robert Wegs, professor of history, ted by Betty 
you. We to think about the hor­ror. We can~ot forget" Malloy con­
·•tinued. "We neet;lto acknowledge fault where itlays·arid we need to recognize onr: tesporisibility to remember;" 
. Signer int c.ed FtiedHinder, remin · 'bnce that"Nosin· gle sch .. . eis adequate to understand the ah [Holocaust] or analyze the··impacf of the Holocaust on Christians and Jews." 
Friedlander began his talk with a sketch of the history of the study of 
see HOLOCAUST I page 4 
thought it would be a great marathon, but now I realize this is a great, really important program to get involved with," Wolford said. "It really has motivated me even more to reach my goal of running a marathon." 
ing a bone marrow har­
vest. His favorite hobbies are fishing, bowling and play­ing with his puppy, Babe. 
Participants in the Team in Training program raise vary­ing amounts of money, 
see MARATHON I page 4 
"With the coaching and the training that they set you up with, it's worked out really well since don't have a lot of running background," he contin­ued. 
Wolford has correspond­ed with Hume by mail, and hopes to meet him this summer. Hume is cur­
Monday, April 27, 1998
page 2 The Observer • INSIDE 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


Go hard 
It is often said of out­spoken people that they wear their hearts on their sleeve. 
I bnlievc that to be true-almost. I wear mine under my sleeve. What is invisible at first glance is the white 

armband I have worn 
Spencer Stefko high on my right arm 
Assistant Viewpoint Editor -under my shirt slenw~ -every day for the past 21 months. ·My armband reminds .me of Jackie. Jackie taught me the most important lesson anyone outisde of my family ever has. To live. liard. Two summers ago Jackie and I met at a basketball camp where I was a counselor and she was a player. She wasn't on my team. and we had never met before. But the Fates­That-Be had a lesson for me to learn that summer, so they made us seck each other out. The director of the camp-my old basket­ball eoaeh -kept making a big deal out of how I wasn't very good, but how I played as hard as anyone. During the week, one eamper stood out from the other 249. One camper bled more and more each day. Each day a new sprain or strain, too. Monday the ankle went. I was refereeing, so I carried Jaekie (in 7th grade at the time) to the train­cr. We talked while she was treated. She liked the fact that my reputation was to go hard. I like the fact she was a little like me. A friend­ship was formed. Jackie and I became fast friends, and we both enjoyed taking on anyone in the camp two-on-two and leaving pair after pair shak­ing their heads. "You guys just got beat by a girl." they would quietly laugh. But never loud enough for Jackie to hear. By then she had a rep. By Friday, I didn't want for camp to be over. On Friday Jackie went up for a rebound, was undercut. and came down on her neck, just as I was walking by on my way to anoth­er court. She was tingling and couldn't move her left side. As she laid there, and I sat there, we were both scared out of our skulls (I was a little more so, I think). I put on my best brave face, but it was her who calmed me down. I sat in the hospital talking to this 13-year old who was more mature than I was realiz­ing that there, but for the grace of God, go I. I didn't want regret. So we agreed that I'd wear my armband for when I needed strength and she'd give it to me from two states away. I still only sec her four or five times a year, but I ask her for help a couple times a week. She has never disappointed me. When I talked to my terminally-ill uncle a few days ago, we had a heart-to-heart. We tried to stay away from the pearls-of-wisdom talk, but it had become increasingly evident that the end could be near. So the conversa­tion went to pearls of wisdom anyway. The advice that kept coming up was simple: Live. lie told me not to have any regret when I die. If I like someone, tell them. If I have a problem, get it settled. What he was telling me, I knew. I just couldn't believe I had for­gottnn. -lie was telling me to go hard. I don't plan to forget this time. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Mike Vanegas  
Christopher Shipley  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Torn Roland  
Sports  Production  
Bill Hart  Brad Prendergast  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  JefTHsu  
Spencer Stefko  

The Observer (USPS 599 2·4000) is published Monday through Friday cxccpr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc As!loci.:ucd Press. All rcproducrion rights arc reserved. 

c~~~~:Pntside the Dome 
'\<_{;-' Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Former kicker faces child molestation charges 
STANFORD, Calif. 
day morning for his scheduled court 
Eric Abrams, after remaining at -appearance. large for five days since San Francisco Last week, Santa Clara prosecutors police issued a warrant for his arrest, issued a warrant for Abrams' arrAst on surrendered himself to Santa Clara attempted false imprisonment involving County Sheriff's deputies yesterday. a second teenage male. Abrams 
Abrams is on trial in Santa Clara allegedly posed as a talent scout and a County on other charges. sports franchise employee and made The 24-year-old Abrams played foot­contact with two separate people. In ball for Stanford through 1995 and, as the first incident, prosecutors allegn a placekicker, scored more points than [as that] of a real predator," said Santa Abrams took the boy to an Oakland any other Stanford football player in Athletics baseball game and to dinner
Clara police Sgt. Jim Arata. "He poses
school history. at his residence before bringing the boy 
a real threat to young juvenile males." In Santa Clara and San Francisco, home.
Even before Abrams allegedly posed Abrams faces charges of false impris­as a police officer and asked a San In the second incident, Abrams onment, child annoyance, child Francisco boy to remove his clothes on allegfldly struck up a eonvnrsation with molestation. impersonating a police a boy on a flight from San Jose to San
April 14, Santa Clara County authori­ollicer and kidnapping stemming from Diego and later contacted the boy to
ties had charged Abrams with false four incidents. Abrams was being held attend a Golden State Warriors basket­
imprisonment and child annoyance 
on $1 million bail at the Santa Clara during an incident that occurred dur­ball game after they both returned. County Jail last night. His lawyers will ing the last year. However, Phil Pennypacker, the argue for a bail reduction during Abrams had posted bail for that attorney representing Abrams said nni­another hearing tomorrow. ther child ever complained or asked to
charge but was taken into custody on "Investigators consider his behavior leave.
new charges when he arrived yester­
• AUBURN UNIVERSITY 
Student dies in bus accident 
AUBURN, Ala. 
Tavon Khazaeli, an 18-year-old freshman in political science from Birmingham, was struck and killed by a Tiger Transit bus early Wednesday afternoon. The acci­dent occurred between 1:30 p.m. and 1:45 p.m. on Roosevelt Avenue between Duncan Drive and Donahue Drive near the rear of the Math Annex building. Khazaeli was taken to East Alabama Medical Center in Opelika. "He died here at the hospital. He basically just got here; we didn't have time to transport him anywhere," said John Atkinson, public relations director at EAMC. "His family has been notified. The father was the first to hear. It hap­pened so fast that I don't even know his name yet," Atkinson added. "He and I were walking, and he just stepped out into the road and got thrown up on the front of the bus and then fell down; it stopped on his back," said Anna Lisa Dudley, a freshman in psychology and a close friend who was with him at the time of the accident. 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS 
Police charge former football players 
FAYETTEVILLE, Ark. 
Two former Razorback football players were arrested on charges of felony possession of a controlled substance with intent to deliver. Christopher Kinnebrew, 26, of Fayetteville and David Sanders, 22, of Fayetteville, were taken into custody by the Fayetteville Police Department Tuesday after police observed a drug transaction taking place at the Spot-Not Car Wash on Wedington Drive. Police recovered about two pounds of processed marijua­na with an estimated street value of $4,000, according to a task force press release. Members of the Fourth Judicial District Drug Task Force were investigating suspicious activity in the area when the investigating officers saw three men commit what they believed was a drug transac­tion. Heports state that officers pulled over a Lincoln Town Car driven by Kinnebrew and allegedly found the marijuana after a consented search. The third individual fled the scene before officers could make an arrest. Sanders and Kinnebrew were arrested after 8:30 p.m. and booked at the Fayetteville City Jail. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAliFORNIA-BERKELEY 


Activists protest experimentation 

BEHKELEY, Calif. 
More than 100 animal rights activists gathered yestM­day to protest the university's use of animals in experi­ments and show their support for Mike Kennedy. the man who has been hanging from the Campanile for three days. In conjunction with World Week for Animals in Laboratories, the rally in front of Sproul Hall focused on the need to terminate neurobiological animal research on campus and prevent construction of a proposed $15 mil­lion Center for Neuroscience on the northwest. side of tho university. Organized by the Mill Valley-based In Defnnse of Animals, yesterday's rally featured UC Berkeley bio­chemistry Professor Emnritus Joe Nielands, IDA President Elliot Katz and best-selling author Jeffrey Masson, among a host of other animal rights activists. Nielands, whose been teaching at UC Berkeley for 46 years, said although­many of his colleagues urged him to stay away from ani­mal rights groups, he still supports non-animal research. 
• UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS 

Student leaders discuss Hopwood case 
AUSTIN, Texas 
Texas Attorney General Dan Morales met with a group of UT student leaders Thursday who urged him to appeal thn Hopwood ruling. But none of the students who protested for the appeal outside Morales' ollice Monday were invited. UT System officials asked Morales last week to appeal the lat­est ruling in the Hopwood allirmative action ease in hopes it could lead to a reevaluation of admissions policies in Texas higher education. A Supreme Court ruling either way would put the university back on a level playing field with other public universities, UT off1cials and students have said. "Even if we lost, this appeal will be playing thfl university's last card," said student government vice president Owen Temple, who attended the meeting. "If we win, we ean go back to creating a diverse university. If it fails, at least it's a nationwide problem." Temple said the attorney general didn't make any promises about an appeal. "He told us not many lawyers would take this and expect to win," Temple added. Morales' interpretation of the Hopwood ruling led to the end of affirmative action in Texas public colleges. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAl WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, April 27. 

AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
SOs Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 



L Monday 
54 33 
i .•:·:t::·,:~@~ .,.. . . . 
Tuesday 6() '43''i Wednesday~ 68 51 Thursday ~.. 14 S~1i 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. 


Pressure 
H L. B &'SJ !I!J 0 ~ 8 (l-

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

Friday ,. r'''liP 7 4 '5'4 
VlaA85oc,.llldPress

..._5-.rS'''.....-.J" ''·l' 
Atlanta 75 56 Denver 51 34 Phoenix 86 60 Baltimore 57 47 Honolulu 83 69 Pueblo 58 36 Boston 49 41 Houston 78 69 San Jose 82 51

4,~,Q,p~Q {) ~ u 
Chicago 54 38 Miami 83 70 Seattle 68 45

Showers T·slorms Rain Flumes Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Dallas 75 62 New York 55 43 St. Louis 64 53

V.a Assoculted Press GraphiCsNet 
............. " ... 
--------------· 

..---------­
--~ ~-------~-~----~----------------------------------­
Monday, April27, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Jam session ...



Kroc institute director resigns 
Special to The Observer 
Raimo Vayrynen, John M. Hegan, Jr., Director of the Joan 
B. Kroc Institute for Interantional Peace Studies at the University of Notre Dame, will step down from the direc­torship at the end of his five­year term in August 1998. Vayrynen will return to the Notre Dame faculty as profes­sor of government and interna­tional studies and will continue as a senior fellow in the Kroc Institute. 
Hobert Johansen. professor of government and internation­al studies and also a senior fel­low in the Kroc Institute, will serve as acting director of the institute for the 1998-99 acad­emic year. A search for a new director will be initiated imme­diately, according to Nathan Hatch. the University provost. 
"Raimo has provided impor­tant leadership to the Kroc. Institute during his term as director and has contributed significantly to its progress and standing," Hatch said. "He has been one of the more visible and productive scholars in international relations and peace research during the last three decades. 
"Under his leadership of the Kroc Institute, research activi­ties have expanded and become more systematic and several major conferences have been orgnaized," he con­tinued. "I am deeply apprecita­tive of his service to the insti­tute and am grateful that he will continue to contribute to its important work as a senior fellow." 
Vayrynen was appointed director of the Kroc Institt1te in 1993 and has focused on inte­grating its educational, schol­arship and policy outreach activities. The most recent product of his leadership was a major international sympo­sium, "The Sacred, the Sword and Global Security: Religions Dimensions of Violence, Peace and Security," held April 16­18. 
Among the other major con­ferences sponsored by the instituted under Vayrynen were "Sovereignty, Modernity and Security," which addressed the ways in which sovereignty shapes nations' identities, practices and political possibil­ities, and "Global Governance: Theories, Instruments and Policies," which compared Canadian and U.S. perspectives on issues of global governance. 
A native of Finaland, Vayrynen holds degrees rn political science from the University of Tampere, where he was later director of the Tampere Peace Research Institute. 
Prior to his appointement the Kroc Institute, he was sec­retary general of the International Peace Research Association and also dean of the faculty of-social sciences and professor of international relations and the University of Helsinki, where has been a member of the faculty since 1978. 
Founded in 1986, the Kroc Institute is a multidisciplinary center for research and teach­ing concerning the causes of and sustaining conditions for national and international vio­lence and peace. The research and policy activities of the Kroc Institute focus primarily on the world order and international institutions, cooperative securi­ty, the analysis and resolution of violent conflicts, humanitari­an issues and ethical aspects of peace and war issues. 
On Before These Crowded Streets, The Dave Matthews Band "push­es in adventurous new directions, incorporating bright new hues into its highly distinctive, instantly recognizable sonic palette"(Rolling Stone) 
Pick up Dave Matthew's latest release at Orbit Music on April 28th. 
Album goes on sale at midnight. 

n: 10:00am-1:00 am -Sat.: 1O:OOam-1 O:OOpm 11:00 am-8: 
New CDs are $11.99 Cassettes are $7.99 
243-9446 
You could earn: 
$2ooo after your first plasma donation! 
$15DO if you donate alone'(first visit) +$ 500 if you show college I.D. (first visit) 
$20oo TOTAL! 
+$1 ooo per person if you recruit someone and they donate twice 
HELP US SAVE LIVES 



Must be 18 years old; proof of current ad0ress with photo I.D. 
Come to:  Hours:  
AMERICAN BIOMEDICAL  Tu-F: 9:00-6:00  
515 Lincolnway West  Sat:  8:00-5:00  
South Bend, IN 46601-1117  234-6010  


One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98~'99 School Year Summer Rentals June~August. (Check our summer storage specials) 


page 4 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 27, 1998 



Holocaust 
continued from page 1 
the Holocaust. 
"In the '50s, the extermina­tions wern hardly mentioned. In the meantime. with distance, the perspective has fundamentally changnd," Friedlander said. "Instead of fading with the pas­sage of time, the Holocaust is ever morn important in the pub­lic consciousness." 
Friedlander went on to discuss 
the problem of "developing 
memory" for historians, or the 
fact that the farther away society 
movns from the Ilolocaust. the 
more people are willing to talk 
about it. This means that the 
landscape of the Ilolocaust and 
the narratives available for study 
are constantly changing. 
"The generation of the 'grand­childnm' [of adult contempo­raries of tho Nazis I has achievml sufficient distance to confront tlw past," Friedlander said. dis­cussing tho reasons for the increasing internst in llolocaust stud ins. 
Friedlander then discussed several questions that those who study the Holocaust must consid­er. 
"Are we ready to face the worst aspects of the past'?" he asked. "Are we mainly witness­ing the gradual lifting of the fences or the gradual return of the repression'? 
"Over the past decades, the Christian churches have gone through a major change of heart with respect to the Jews," he added. "Can the facing of responsibility (by the Christian churches! be derailed by politi­cal or dogmatic concerns? 
"Even today. many people would opt for ... an absolute stance with respect to Nazi crimes," Friedliinder continued. "The demand for justice intro­duced ambiguity into the past. The demand f(u· justiee is driving highly ambiguo~ debates on comparative victimi7ation." 
Friedliinder continued with a 

Questions? Call Saint Mary's Campus Ministry at 284-5391 

discussion of the interaction of 
memory and history. 
"For events so embedded in 
our conseiousness. memory and 
history cannot totally be kept 
apart," he said. "An ongoing 
interaction between memory 
and history shapes our percep­
tions of the past." 
"The problem of the indeter­minacy of the Shoah ... is the 'why' is indeterminate, hovering over the murder process," he said. 
Friedlander advocated the integration of the fates of indi­viduals with the historical narra­tives. 
"Such moments lof individual fate) should become part of our understanding," he said, noting that many people are familiar with the Holocaust through such personal books as "The Diary of Anne Frank." 
Friedlander concluded with a discussion for tho possible rea­sons for increased interest in the llolocaust. 
"Such a need for ur1derstand­ing had to increase the growth of memories," he said. "What our contemporaries are seeking is a new definition of evil. What, in view of these crimes. is the nature of human nature'?" 
The talk was followed by ques­tions from the audience. 
The Notre Dame Holocaust Project began in 1996 when William Reilly. chairman and CEO of Primedia and an alum­nus of the University of Notre Dame, gave a grant to the University to promote the study of the Holocaust. 

Marathon 
continued from page 1 
depending on how far away from their home the marathon for which they are training is to be held. Wolford has pledged to raise $2,500 to sup­port Leukemia Society's research, patient aid, public education and community ser­vice programs. lie has done this largely through conduct­ing a letter-writing campaign including friends, relatives and community businesses. 
"The Team in Training pro­gram is a two-way relation­ship," said Wolford. "Without the support of the Leukemia Society, I would not know how to prepare for a marathon. And hopefully, I am helping the Leukemia Society and their other programs through my fundraising. The staff and Hicky, my patient hero, have inspired me to give my best to my training and fundraising. Everyone involved benefits from the program." 
Wolford does all of his run­ning alone. On Sundays, he does long runs and is up to a peak of 20 miles; Tuesdays are for speed workouts such as 4 x 1 mile; Wednesdays and Saturdays are recovery runs of 3-4 miles each; and Thursdays and Fridays are endurance­building runs of 6-8 miles apiece. Wolford occasionally seeks moral support from senior Colleen Henshaw, who 
Turtle Creek has "Two-RtFFtc" news! We now have two bedroom townhomes available for the 98-99 school year! Townhomes will be rent­ed on a first-come first-serve basis, so hurry in and pick up your application today! Also, we have a limited number of studio and 1 bed­rooms available for the 98-99 school year as well! Turtle Creek Apartments: 272-8124 
Institute for Spiritual Leadership 
AUGUST 17-18, 1998 
LAKESIDE, MICHIGAN 
Strengthen your nnderstanding, skills and com­mitment as a spiritual leader. Workshops include: 
• 
promoting Christian service 

• 
praying together 

• 
facilitating dynamic Bible studies and retreats 

• 
ministry with high school students 


Open and free to all Saint Mary's students, faculty, administrators and staff. 
Come to an informational meeting April 28 at noon or 6:00 PM in 158 Regina, or call 284·5391 to register! 
is also training for the same marathon in the Team in Training Program. 
Henshaw is running in honor of a 5-year-old girl named Emily Stone from the Chicago area. 
"I go to Chicago every other weekend to do my training runs, and she and her morn were at one of the water sta­tions," Henshaw said. "I was never a born runner. I was never a track star or a cross­country star. My big thing is, if I can do it, anybody can." 
Of the estimated 15.000 run­ners participating in the San Diego Hock 'n' Roll Marathon, 7,000 will be part of the Team in Training program working to benefit the fight against leukemia. 
In order to assist Wolford in his fundraising efforts, checks can be made out to the Leukemia Society noting that you arc sponsoring Brian Wolford to the Leukemia Society of America, Two Gateway Center, 13 North, Pittsburgh, PA, 15222. To sup­port Henshaw, send a check made out to the Leukemia Society to Colleen Henshaw, 
P.O. Box 944, Notre Dame, IN 


The Obse~ve~: We've c:\ot JssLAes. 
·····.·. .. . 
. 
-·····"'·.•,,.•.,. o Beco 
Physician? 
MAKE YOUR DESTINATION . . UNION STATION! 


233-2876 
WEDDING RECEPTIONS GRADUATION PARTIES REHEARSAL DINN.RSBANQUET DINNERS
1:_·· 
DANCES CLASS REUNIONS oateS • C 
Great l ble \ . alllor 
ai ct '''12 . · 
·tl /l.'V ~'-t.l(!!llk UJe!t_r/# · 01 '~lzat. · 
stt ~ to;z/ 
<G>travelmore 
Carlson 

Wagonlit
Traver 
~ 
AT TRAVELMORE/CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL WE HAVE BEEN SENDING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S STUDENTS AND FACULTY TO EUROPE FOR OVER 25 YEARS. LET OUR EXPERlliNCED EUROPEAN SPECIALISTS PLAN YOUR NEXT TRIP TO EUROPE. OUR AGENCY OFFERS; 
STUDENT & FACUlTY RATES 
-LOW AIRFARES TO EUROPE-
RAil PASSES ISSUED IN OUR OFFICE 
-WITH NO SERVICE FEE­
DISCOUNTED EUROPEAN CAR RENTAlS 
11111 canIIX/ItJCtthtJ wolldIIIIIs! 



Ray family plans pub­lic funeral 
Associated Press 

NASHVILLE. Tenn. 
Helatives and supporters of James Earl Hay, the convictnd assassin of Martin Luther King Jr., arc trying to arrange a public funeral in Nashville. 
Jerry Hay said on Sunday that hn wants to have the funeral for his brother in aobut three weeks. lin said he hopes relatives of King, who joined in his efforts to get a trial for his brother, will attend the funer­al. 
"It will be a memorial to James to show he's donH 30 ytears for a crime that he didn't commit," said Hay in a telephone interview from his home in Smartt. 
A spokeswoman for the King family did not return a tele­phone message Sunday for comment on whnther somnonn would atttend. 

1723 S. BEND AVE. PH 219-271-4880 FAX 219-271-4879 NEXT TO Tllli NDCAMPUS 

-----------------------------~-----------------------~~­
Monday, April 27, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEfS 
Police end Tibetan protest 
NEW DELHI, India 

Tibetan activists accused India of interfer­
ing with their protest of China's iron grip on 
Tibet after police forced three hunger strik­
ers to end a fast Sunday after 48 days. 
Tseten Norbu. the presid.ent of the Tibetan 
Youth Congress, said authorities interfered 
with the strike because of a visit Sunday by 
China's army chid, Gen. Fu Quanyou. There 
was no immediate comment from the Indian 
government. But suicide is illegal in India, 
and officials had long been expected to 
forcibly end the strike. Police rarely press 
charges in these cases. The strikers want the 
United Nations to send a human rights inves­
tigator to Tibet and supervise a referendum 
allowing Tibet to choose independence, 
autonmny within China, or some other sta­
tus. 
Authorities spot hijacked ship 
KUALA LUMPUH, Malaysia 

Malaysian maritime authorities said 
Sunday that a Malaysian oil tanker believed 
to haw b1wn hijackPd in the South China Sea 
may have been spotted near tho Philippines. 
ThP Malaysian-registered Petro Hanger, car­
rying 11.000 tons of diesel and kerosene 
from Singapore to llo Chi Minh City in 
ViPtnam. has been missing since April 17. 
ThP cargo, ow1wd by a Vietnamese company, 
is worth an estimated $1.5 million. 
Malaysia's Maritime Control Center said it 
had received an "unofficial report" that the 
vessel was in Philippine waters. between the 
southwestern island of Palawan and 
Malaysia's Sabah state on Borneo. Lt. Cmdr. 
Husli Hamli said a passing commercial ship 
had telephoned that information to the miss­
ing tanker's Singapore-based shipping agent, 
Petroships Private Ltd. 
Astronauts breathe easier aboard Shuttle 
SPACE CENTER, Houston 

A newly repaired air purifying system was back in operation Sunday aboard the space shuttle Columbia. allowing the crew mem­bers to focus on their research mission. "With some great work and support from the ground, we were able to repair that system, and we're going to go on to a full mission duration," shuttle Commander Richard Searfoss said. "Everything's working great." A leaky valve caused the shuttle's carbon dioxide removal unit to shut down late Friday, threatening to cut short the two­week research mission examining how the nervous system develops and functions in space. But Searfoss patched up the unit Saturday afternoon by just removing one end of a small hose, blocking it with tape to bypass the leaky valve, and reinstalling it. lie said it was like lixing the water hose on his car. 
Nml&tiWtfNUifiDI 
AMEX·

Dow 741.86. ]ONES -6.19 Nasdaq:-78.71 !868.96 

-12.43 
NYSE: 574.47 -6.08 

S&P 500: 
Composite !107.90 Volume: 
-11.68 650,000,000

9064.62 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
CS:!tdl',~~l:: Jlr~EB ·~~ ru ~:s~d i G~lt:i I!BICE 
SIGNAL APPAREL Sl,\ 6H.OO 1.062 2.625 MORGAN PRODUCTS MGN 24.05 1.188 6.125 NORD RESOURCES NRD 17.95 0.4.\8 2.875 FAIR ISAAC k C:O FIC 14.66 4.9:!8 38.625 RAYTECII COR I' Rt\Y 14.29 0.688 5.500 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
CARIBINER INTI. CWC 1'1.71 6.750 27.500 GLAMIS GOLD LTD GLG 12.82 0.625 4.250 TELEF ~SPAN A-RTS TEF 11.43 0.250 1.938 MIDWAY GAMES INC MWY 10.71 2.250 18.750 PHILIP SERVICES PllV 10.48 0.93.8 8.000 



Ukraine remembers Chernobyl disaster 
AFP Photo 

Alexi II, the Patriarch of Moscow and all Russia, leads the blessing of the symbolic ''first stone" of the church dedicated to the vic­
tims of the Chernobyl disaster. AssociATED PREss 
KIEV, Ukraine 
With solemn ceremonies and ral­lies, Ukraine, Russia and Belarus on Sunday marked the 12th anniversary of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster that continues to haunt the three for­mer Soviet republics. 
Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma declared that his country would adhere to pledges to close the ill-fated nuclear power plant. 
"Chernobyl will be closed -that is clear," the president said after a cer­emony near the monument to Chernobyl's victims. "We do not have any other choice." 
But Kuchma said a definite shut­down date depends on when promised Western aid will arrive. 
Chernobyl's reactor No. 4 exploded during a test April 26, 1986, killing at least 32 people in the immediate blast and sending a deadly cloud of radiation across large sections of Russia and Europe. 
In a speech broadcast nationwide, Kuchma estimated the damage suf­fered by Ukraine at up to $130 bil­lion, and said Kiev has to spend $1 billion a year to deal with the conse­quences of the accident. 
The health ministry says close to 3,600 Ukrainians who took part in the cleanup effort have died from radiation exposure. Private groups say the death toll is at least twice as high. 
Russian officials say an estimated 10,000 Russian "liquidators"-those involved in the clean-up -have died, and thousands more became invalids. 
In 1995, Ukraine and the Group of Seven leading industrialized nations agreed to close the plant in exchange for Western aid. The money would help finish two nuclear reactors to compensate for the energy that Chernobyl provided. 
But the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development is not expected to make a decision on whether to fund the new reactors until late this year. 
Ukrainian officials say they are prepared to keep the plant's only functioning reactor open well into the next century if they do not receive the promised aid. It has been under repair since last year an·d is scheduled to resume producing elec­tricity next month. 
In Russia, Orthodox Church Patriarch Alexi II presided over a memorial ceremony at Moscow's Mitino cemetery, the burial site for 28 firemen who died at Chernobyl. 



page 6 The Observer • NEWS Monday, April 27, 1998 
Security Council will review-U.S. sanctions on Iraq 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
The United States faces a major test Monday of its ability to hold the line on sanctions against Iraq when the Security Council reviews the status of the seven year embargo and the 
U.N. campaign to rid the country of illegal weapons. 
The 15 council members will undoubtndly eontinue the sanc­tions for now. No council mem­ber, including Iraq's sympathiz­ers. is prepared to call for lifting the sandions, imposed in 1990 after President Saddam llussein invaded Kuwait, touching ol1' the Persian Gulf War. 
U.S. Ambassador Bill Hichardson told CNN's "Late Edition" on Sunday that he would veto any move to end the embargo. 
During the review, council ambassadors will discuss a reecnt report by the U.N. Special Commission, whieh performs the inspections. The report said inspectors had made "virtually no progress" in determining whether Iraq had destroyed its banned weapons. 
Iraq must convince U.N. arms inspectors that it has destroyed all banned weapons, including long-range missiles and chemi­cal and biological weaponry, before the council will lift the sanctions. 
But Monday's deliberations will show whether support for a hardline stand on the sanctions 

--------·---·-----------. ----, 
Why lug your stuff across
-. 
-"'2_ 7~'',® campus? 






B~ESPWS 
Call 277·5555 for free pick up at your roorn -on or off cwnpus. 
Boxes Plus •the lower priced shipper• 5622 Grape Road Wilshire Plaza near Sam's Club 
~-----------------------­


Earth Day! Every Dayf 
Save the planet, get paid and have fun! Full time and summer. Must be 18 or older. Work 2-10 pm Monday -Friday. Earn $32S per week base plus bonus. Call 232-7905. 
is eroding. Iraq's foreign minis­ter, Mohammed Saeed al­Sahhal', told The New York Times that support for the embargo is weakening "whether the Americans like it or not." 
A growing number of council members privately suggest that the sanctions have run their course. Bather than forcing Iraq to comply, they believe the sanc­tions have destroyed the Iraqi middle class and caused unac­ceptable suffering among Iraq's 22 million people. 
The review will be the first by the council since Secretary­General Kofi Annan struck a deal with the Iraqis in February to open all sites to U.N. inspec­tors, including Saddam's eight presidential compounds. 
That reduced the threat of U.S.-led military strikes to force Iraq to grant unrestricted access to those compounds. U.N. inspeetors later visited all eight sites but reported finding no banned weapons. 
After the formal review Monday morning, al-Sahhaf will meet informally with council envoys in the aft~rnoon to issue a personal appeal for ending the sanctions. 
He is expected to argue that Iraq has met the conditions for ending the sanctions but that the United States and Britain are manipulating the inspection program to prolong the sanc­tions indefinitely. 
Several members, notably Hussia, France and China, 

believe the council should destine nuclear facilities Iraq acknowledge Iraqi progress on , admits building before the Gulf dismantling its nuclear program conflict. and begin phasing out wide-Last week, Hussia informally ranging inspeetions of the dan-circulated a draft resolution 
Office of Information Tcchnolosies 
Remember last ry went to a 24-hour sched ...,)'".!, Il;J!:1li~I:A• d finals but the com 
THIS TIME THINGS ARE DIFFERENT! 


The Office of Information Technologies has modified the Hesburgh library cluster so that the cluster will stay open around the clock during study days and finals. 
.......... . •'• 

.-~ '$:. ';.;,~,·••~--~-·
() ll]!.. \~:::::. .&.. 

No more packing all your books & hiking across campus to DeBartolo at 2 am. Stay. Type. Print. 
4"1 {""~, ~( ..K.-\~:::-:=_...·· 

Office of lnfonnatwn Technologies 


MARKETING LECTURE 
Speaker: Jane J. Thompson, President, Sears Home Services Sears Roebuck & Co. 
''Values and Marketing: How Sears Home Services is Building a Multi-Billion Dollar Business'' 
Tuesday, April 28, 1998 3:30pm. 
Room 162, College of Business Building University of Notre Dame 
Sponsored by: University of Notre Dame, Department of Marketing Further Information: Call the Marketing Department at 631-6419 
which would end wide-ranging investigations of Iraq's nudear program and shift the "passivP monitoring" and less frr~q unnt inspections. 
--~--~~--~~--~-l 
Monday, April 27, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 
• UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT 


Annual party erupts into full-scale riot 
Associated Press  some  car  windshields  were  "I wasn't going to go walking  after hearing of wild behavior at  
smashed and buildings were  into the lion's den," said the  an off-campus party Friday. The  
STORRS, Conn.  vandalized. Police arrested 58  freshman, who did not want to  party on Saturday was not a  
An annual party weekend at  people  from  Thursday  to  be identified.  school-sponsored event.  
the University of Connecticut  Sunday. It's not clear how many  In recent years, the annual  Chancellor Mark Emmert said  
culminated  in  a  riot  early  were students.  spring celebration just before  the melee put the future of the  
Sunday as students pelted police  Several thousand people gath­ finals has been plagued with  traditional weekend in doubt.  
with rocks and beer bottles and  ered in a campus parking lot  trouble.  ''I'm enormously disappointed  
set a car on fire with a flaming  Saturday night, drinking and  Last year, an off-campus party  and frustrated that the very  
couch.  chanting expletives at police  that drew about 5,000 students  hard work of our student leaders  
More than 2,000 drunken rev­ monitoring the party, witnesses  resulted in  a  reported rape,  and staff was ruined by the very  
elers  watched  as  students  said.  dozens of arrests, an injured  unacceptable and disturbing  
flipped  a car and threw a flam­ State and campus police in riot  state police officer, bonfires and  behavior of a very small minori­ 
ing couch on it, prompting police  ·  gear moved in at about 1 a.m.  a damaged fire truck.  ty of the student body," he said.  
to disperse the crowd with pep­ Sunday when  some  partiers  University officials hoped to  On Friday night, up to 5,000  
per spray.  No injuries were  · threw the flaming couch on the  contain this year's party by  students gathered at an off-cam­ 
reported.  1992 Honda Accord.  offering events on campus, and  pus apartment complex where  
"It  was  insane," said J.P.  The woman whose car was  serving beer to students 21  and  "Kill-A-KJJg" parties are held  
Rizzitelli, a senior. "Everyone  burned said she was in her dorm  over in an enclosed section. But  each year. Officers were pelted  
was just going out to destroy  room when friends told her of  the first night's events were  with rocks and bottles and 23  
stuff. It was like a war zone."  the fire. She didn't check until  poorly attended, and the school  police cruisers were damaged,  
Three other cars were flipped,  later in the morning.  canceled Saturday's festivities  state police said.  

Jackson weighs presidential bid for 2000 
Associated Press environmental and welfare experts dis­and chamber of commerce official, said cussed the problems of an area in the Ohio's Appalachia was left behind when the ATHENS, Ohio Appalachian foothills where unemployment interstate highway system was built and the 
In the foothills of one of America's poorest is high and incomes are below the state state failed to provide enough money for areas, the Rev. Jesse Jackson said on average. schools. Sunday that a new national debate is needed Athens County's unemployment rate was "We don't have the votes here," he said. to bridge the gap between the rich and poor. 1.6 percentage points above the state aver­Jackson said Appalachia is the best place to 
''I'm convinced that this is the time to age of 5.9 percent in March. The county's start the debate just as the march from reform the nationwide debate," Jackson said per-capita income in 1994 was $7,367 Selma to Montgomery in Alabama began the at a town hall meeting he moderated. "More below the state average of $20,867. civil rights movement in the 1960s. and more Americans are being left behind. The experts said the growth of the stock "Appalachia is the right place to address That must be the essence of the debate in market and the country's economic prosper­the issue of economic inclusiveness, because '98 and 2000." ity have not helped the people of Appalachia has the power to raise the issue 
Jackson's two-day visit to this city of Appalachia. across the country," he said. 21,000 residents about 60 miles southeast of "How rich do we have to get before it is Nancy McDaniel, a professor at Hocking Columbus has been labeled as an attempt to OK to bring people up from the bottom?" College in nearby Nelsonville, was among gauge his appeal for a possible presidential asked Jack Frech, director of the county's those listening to the discussion. bid for 2000. Department of Human Services. "A lot of the things that were said were 
But there was no mention of the topic dur­The panelists said one problem with the close to me," Ms. McDaniel said, adding that ing the 90-minute meeting at Ohio region is that because so few people live she hopes the nation's problems University. "I have not made that decision, here, their vote is ignored. Some said no one improve. in part because it is premature," Jackson in either party has raised the issue of poor After the town meeting, Jackson spoke to said afterward. Appalachia. about 500 people at First United Methodist 
Instead, medical, education, business, William Coffey, a small business owner Church. 

• 




$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
Do yoV\ V\eed ext~a cash fo~ this SlAmme~? 
The .AiumV\i .AssociatioV\ is hi~iV\g people who would like to work from 
3V\~e 31 1998 thrV\ 3V\~e 61 1998 
for retAJ-'1ioJ-'1 '98 
You'll have lots of fun while you earn extra spending money!!! 
Please apply at student employment 336 Grace Hall or The Alumni Association 202 Brownson Hall 



$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ 
-~-~-~---~­
-----~~~-~--------------------~--------------~--~ ~-~­
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
page 8 Monday April 27, 1998 
THEY HAD HELP WRITING THE NEW TAX LAWS. SHOULDN'T YOU HAVE HELP FIGURING THEM OUTt 
It took 535 congresspeople-and countless What's more, new eligibility rules may now lawyers, economists, and advisors-to turn make it possible for you or your spouse to take out the new tax laws. Fortunately, you can greater advantage of TIAA-CREF for more of 
turn to one expert source for answers on the your long-term planning needs. 
options and opportunities they provide. 
We wrote the book on retirement planning.
Ask TIAA-CREF about the new Roth IRA and other ways to save. 
After all, these aren't the first "new" tax laws TIAA-CREF I RAs can make it easier than we've seen in our 80 years of service to education, ever to save for retirement and other goals research, and related fields. Nor is it the first time as well. We'll explain the new Roth, Classic, we've helped people like you make the most ofthem. · and Education IRAs, discuss whether Find out how TIAA-CREF's range of investment consolidating your existing IRA savings choices, low expenses, and commitment to service makes sense, and help you design an effective can work for you. Call us at I 800 842-2776 tax-savings strategy. (8 a.m.-11 p.m. ET weekdays). 
Visit our Web site at www.tiaa-cref.org 


Ensuring the future for those who shape it.SM 
Information contained herein is subject to completion or amendment. Registration statements relating to TIAA-CREF Roth IRAs, Classic IRAs, and Education IRAs have been flied with tlw Securities and Exchange Commission. These securities may not be sold nor may oll'ers to buy be an·epted pnor to the time the registration statements become ell'cctive. This ad shall not constitute an ofl'er to sell or the solit·itation of' an ofiCr to buy, nor shall there he any sale of these securities in any state in which such oll'er, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or yualification under the set·urities laws of any su<.:h state. Fur more <.'omplete i~fonnation, including charges and expenses, call I 800 842-2733, ext. 5509 for the CREF and TIAA Real Estate Account prospectuses and call I ROO 223-1200 li,.~ a TI~A-CREF Mutual Funds prospectus. Read the prospectuses carefully before you invest or send money. CREF certificates and interests in the TIAA Real Estate Account are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. TIAA-CREF Mutual Funds are distributed by Tea<.· hers Personal Investors St-rvit-es. 
3/98 
-

----------~---~­


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April27, 1998 page 9 
THE OBSERVER 


NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ................. Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER .......................Kris Klein VIEWPOINT EDITOR ................ Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet ScENE EDITORS. . ............. Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR ................. Jennifer Breslow 
Kristi Klitsch CONTROLLER ...................•...........••..•.Dave Rogero SAINT MARY's EDITOR ............ Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR .......................Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent ncw~rapcr published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is rcponc.-J .15 accuratdy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the f..dirur-in-Chicf, Managing Editor, Ao;sisram Managing F..diror and department editors. Commentaries, lencn. and columm. presem the vit'ws nf the authors, and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all mt:mhcrs of the Nurre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions rhrnugh letters. is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/A,isranr ME 631-4541 • Advettising 63 I -6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6.927 Scene//Saint Mary's 63I-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 63I-747I News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• lETTER TO THE.ED!TOR 
Images of WRC 'Grossly Distorted' Caricature 
The degree to which the WRC has recently been portrayed as an abortion resource is misleading. Perpetuating the caricature which Sean Vinck has drawn of the center, I fear, may have seriously detrimental repercussions for the women of Notre Dame. In this response to the article in the recent issue of Right Reason and to the letters in Friday's Viewpoint, I hope to show how grossly distorted these images of the WRC actu­ally are. 
One of the fundamental characteris­tics of a caricature is the exaggeration of certain characteristics of its subject, and such caricatures are not realistic depictions of subjects. Nowhere is Right Reason's caricature of the WRC more visually apparent than on page four of this week's issue, where the editors reproduce thepamphlet that Planned Parenthood donated to the the WRC. The editors have enlarged the line "including information on abortion" so that it sticks out. True, the line is easier to find, but in doing so those four lines -the only four words regarding abor­tion in the entire WRC library, I might add -are given precedence over the rest of the document and actually hides the fact that "abortion" is juxtaposed with "adoption" and "federal programs to aid single mothers." Vinck neglects to draw any attention to the medically nec­essary procedures that Planned ParPnthood provides, such as col­poscopy, which save women's lives. Nor does he mention the availability of infor­mation on abstinence that Planned Parenthood advertises in the pamphlet. 
In his article, Vinck categorically demonstrates that his vision of the WRC is not a faithful rendition of the Center. The artificiality of the article is evident even in the editors' pull quote: "Yet when prodded further on the presence of the Planned Parenthood material, Morman and McMahon conceded that 'We're not trying to !it into the ideal of the Catholic Church."' Veith says that he "prodded further." Prodding is manipu­lation, jabbing an animal to make it go where you want it to go or do what you want it to do. When the term is used metaphorically to refer to dialogue, as it is here, it means to make someone say what you want them to say. What Vinck is saying is that manipulative discourse influenced the statements of the WRC's directors. He says that Mohrman and McMahon "conceded" that the Center wasn't trying to fit into the ideals of the Church. To concede is to accept some­one else's proposal; that is, the state­ment did not originate from the direc­oddly placed in a center which cites as one of its goals a desire to 'improve gen­der relations."' What he neglects to say is that above these clippings-in bold print-is the title: "Wall of Shame." Whenever someone asks a volunteer why the WRC exists, the volunteer can point to the wall and say, "Because there are people who believe what's written on that wall." Those clippings do not represent the convictions of the WRC, as Vinck clearly implies they do, but rather justify the organization's 

tors. Rather, it was .----------------. existence. 
written by Vinck. Here, Veith admits that he put words into the directors' mouths. Lastly, he presents the state­ment, "We're not try­ing to fit into the ideal of the Catholic Church" as if both of them had said this, but later in the arti­cle, he says that it was only Mohrman. Not only is his quot­ing unreliable, but he takes the quote com­pletely out of context. Whereas it was origi­nally used to describe the presence of the Planned Parenthood brochure, he uses it with reference to "the issue of homosexuality." This repe­tition (the quote is used four times on the page) is a rhetorical device that Vinck uses to exaggerate the weight the speaker put into his statement, and it therefore does not constitute a faithful rendering of the WRC. 
Vinck not only adds qualities to the WRC which do not exist, but also omits facts which are crucial to correctly interpreting the center. One misleading omission from the article is about clip­pings on the wall of the center which blatantly degrade women. He says that the presence of this material "seems 
Sean Connolly's reaction in Friday's Viewpoint is the worst reaction that could come out of Vinck's horribly mis­leading article. Connolly urged the administration to "investigate and remove the Women's Resource Center from campus." 
I am the son of a Catholic obstetrician and am decidedly pro-life. I agree with Connolly's assertion that abortion is wrong, but his solu­tion to the problem is hasty and hyperbolic. 

Dissolving the WRC would necessarily eliminate programs designed to put women in touch with rape counselors. It would suspend programs that are designed to help women with eating dis­orders -programs that I kno·w on at least one occasion probably saved a life. Connolly could better serve the student body by simply asking for the people at the WRC to remove those pamphlets from the shelves rather than by elimi­nating the center altogether. 
Christine Gabany's response was somewhat more thoughtful, but her staged visit to the WRC highlights one critical point about the decision to have an abortion -any person who has ever gotten information from the WRC regarding abortion has decided to seek out this information and has asked for it. Gabany walked away with a phone number and an address, but she cer­tainly did not have to go to the WRC to get this information. She could have just as easily looked under "abortion" in her University issued copy of the Yellow Pages and browsed through the large ads inside. In fact, if the University decides to take action against the WRC for having the addresses of abortion providers available under the pretense that it contravenes against the mission of the Catholic Church, then not only will the University be required to recall all of the Yellow Pages on campus, but they will have to go through the stacks of Hesburgh and edit those books for piety. Personally. the presence of the information doesn"t concern me; I am more concerned that a woman would decide to seek out that information in the first place. At any rate, the University's sudden reaction to the Right Reason article shows that they were previously unaware of the pam­phlet's presence, and that in itself is a testament to the WRC's non-advocacy of abortion. 
In closing, Sean Vinck has clearly done the women of Notre Dame a grave disfavor by horribly misrepresenting the Women's Resource Center, its practices and its policies. The image that he pre­sents is no more than a caricature tai­lored to discredit an organization which does so much more than Vinck gives it credit for. I ask the students and admin­istration to decide, before passing judgement on the Women's Resource Center based on the image presented in Vinck's article, whether or not a carica­ture portrait could ever possibly be an accurate depiction of a real person. 
Bob Blaslciewicz 
Senior, Fisher Hall 
April 25, 1998 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DooNESBURV 
NOTHING. BUTITS 6eeAT.1 NOT THIN!< 
!til; t301NG I /JON'T P/HAT 

A GOOf? NOTHIN6. 7HAT IT H£P/A<3 NOT 7HAT~Aif£RII(A.{61 U/OUt.PN'r IMPL-YING /GftE.C£&6AR/I-Y 9AJ?. 
9!3,CF 7HAT.Z. IAIHYA/?!3 Ne 7JU.K­COURSe. I' ING UK& TH/5? I 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Before marriage, a man 
yearns for the woman he loves. After marriage, the 'y' becomes silent.' • 
-Anonymous 

r---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----­


VIEWPOINT 
Monday, April 27, 1998

page 10 
• OoT MAN, CAN'r KICK 
GLND/SMC Manipulates Catholic Doctrine to Serve Their Purposes 
Honesty. I would say that this is a pretty important virttw for humankind. In fact, I would say that it is a very important virtue. This is true in the realm of public dis­course, especially when such discourse is acted upon and a sizable group of people is affected. 
1am sure that most of you saw the "Notre Dame Pride" inserts in last wtwk's Observer. It was the type of journal-is tic ef'l'ort that cannot help but elicit an emotional and intellectual response. I experienced a wide array of such emotional and intellectual reactions as I perused the con­tents of this excursion into homosexual life at Notre Dame. =========;:=;:=;:=;:=;:=;~ I am not going to 
detail all of those 
reactions in this 
column. Instead, I

Brandon 
am going to con­centrale on one such reaction, one

Williams 
that I think is important. I have tremen­

--------========-----do us respect for those gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame family. They suffer tremendously and often. The endurance and perseverance they display in the face of this suffering is more than admirable. Many rise above the hurt they expe­rience to make a genuine and obviously positive contribu­tion to this community. I take their ideas, their feelings and their situation here at Notre Dame seriously. 
However, I also take my faith very seriously. Because this is true, I must also take the teachings and traditions of the Catholic Church on faith and morals very seriously. When I read the "Notre Dame Pride" insert, I honestly felt that those teachings were not being respected. In fact, I felt that they were bt~ing exploited. 
Please hear me out. What follows may not be what you expect. Since I have come to this University, those behind GLND/SMC, the non-discrimination clause and other homosexual rnlated issues have made this point: 'Notre Damn is a Catholic institution. It should, above all, be markPd by lovn and by eompassion. If any place should be 
There, it was long but necessary. That's it, that is what the Church says on this issue. Many of the individuals pro­filed last week were past and present leaders of the "homosexual movement" at Notre Dame. Many of them have morally challenged and condemned Notre Dame on the basis of this Catholic teaching. However, I was shocked to find that out of all the people profiled, only one of them was committed to the full teaching that is so often cited in part. Only Father Garrick, who is already a priest, actually took the call to chastity seriously. Admittedly, some profiled are not Catholic and/or have not partieipat­ed in using this teaching to admonish Notre Dame --thus their culpability in this matter is limited if existent at all. However, many profiled do consider themselves Catholic and/or do utilize this teaching in their public arguments. llow can someone publicly and emphatically cite the Catholic teaching on an issue while they simultaneously disregard the rest of that very same teaching'? Basically, many are saying, "You, Notre Dame, are not living this teaching. Of course, we also are not living that same teaching, but you, Notre Dame, you are the one who 
should be condemned for it." 
Before I go further, I want to make it clear that I am well aware of the board in my own eye. I know that I per­sonally do not live up to Catholic teaching as I should. Many who know me well could attest to this with a wide array of juicy details. So how can I point out the splinter in the eyes of others on this point'? The reason I feel justified in doing so is because of the objective need for truth in the public sphere. As I said before, these moral arguments and these moral claims are being made in the realm of public discourse. They are being made with the intention of changing policy and of changing an institution. One could even say they are made with the intention of influ­encing the Catholic world, which Notre Dame is such a vital part of. That is why honesty is so imperative. It is simply misleading to keep crying "Catholic teaching, Catholic teaching" while simultaneously maintaining the opinion that the same Catholic teaching is not worth applying in one's own life. Whether intentionally or not, a veneration of Catholic teaching is conveyed by arguments 
open to all people it is at a ,---------------------------------------, made on the basis of Catholic 
Catholic university.  
Furtlwrmore, the Church  
makes the distinction  
betwenn hornost~xual and  
homos11xual ads.  
llomosexuality, in and of  
itself. is not a sin, so why  
should honH>SPxuals not be  
act:eptPd'?' I have oftpn  
nehond this Sl~ntimmit and I  
basically support it still. This  
point. made in so many let­ 
ters and at so many rallies,  
calls Notre DamP to truly  
livn its Catholicism. to take  
its Catholicism seriously.  
This is cnrtainly admirable  
and I have previously com­ 
rnnnd11d those making such a  
call.  
That is, until last week  
wlwn I n~ad thn inst~rt. that  
is.  
Beforn I go further. let's  
take a look at the Catholic  
teaching, as given in the  
Catechism, on homosexuali­ ~  
ty. It can be found at 2357­2359: "llomosexuality refers  f  
to relations between men or  
between women who experi­ 
ence an exdusiv11 or pre­ 
dominant sexual attraction  
toward persons of the same sex. It has taken a great  ~ ~\  
variety of forms through the  
centuries and in different  

cultures. Its psychological genesis remains largely unex­
plained. Basing itself on Sacred Scripture, which presents 
homosexual acts as acts of grave depravity, tradition has always declared that 'homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered.' They are contrary to the natural law. They dose the sexual act to the gift of life. They do not proceed from a genuine affective and sexual complementary. Under no circumstances can they be approved. 
"The number of men and women who have deep-seated homosexual tendencies is not negligible. They do not choose their homosexual condition; for most of them it is a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided. These persons are called to ful­fill God's will in their lives and, if they are Christians, to unite to the saerifice of the Lord's Cross the difficulties they may encounter from their condition. 
"Homosexual persons are called to chastity. By the virtues of self-mastery that teach them inner freedom, at times by the support of disinterested friendship, by prayer and sacramental grace, they can and should gradually and resolutely approach Christian perfection." 
teaching and for the sake of  
Notre Dame's Catholic char­ 
acter. People form their opin­ 
ions and give their support on  
the basis of such perceptions.  
It is not fair for such public  
perception to be fostered dis­ 
honestly for the sake of some  
I  ( 1 -r )  version of real politick. It is misleading, seemingly pur­ 
posely so.  
All I'm saying is that if you  
~  disagree with the Catholic  
teaching on this issue, then  
say so. Hespectfully disagree  
with me. Don't point out the  
distinction between "homo­ 
sexual" and "homosexual act"  
when that distinction means  
nothing to you and you have  
no intention of trying to live  
by it. If one of the reasons  
GLND/SMC wasn't recognized  
as a group is because it pro­ 
moted monogamous homo­ 
sexual relationships (and thus  
homosexual acts), then don't  
keep conveniently leaving  
that point out in public  
debates on the issue. Be bon­ 
est and commit your true  
opinions to the realm of ideas,  
keeping in mind that Notre  
Dame is a Catholic university.  
I believe in the full teaching  
on this issue. My faith is  
informed by my faith and by  

my reason. I am willing to stand by it. If you disagree with the teaching then you should do the same--especially in public forums meant to influence. The teaching should not be manipulated and cropped to fit your opinion. That is disrespectful, and respect is supposed to be what this is all about. 
Even when I have disagreed with the "movement" in the past (and this is not all of the time), whether it be with positions on morals, theology or politics, I have always at least respected the courage it takes to persevere in the face of their trial. It is a trial that is made more poignant by the ignorance and/or lack of compassion often dis­played by our society. However, this sort of selective truth is not courageous. I hope that it ends so that we can all look forward to an honest debate in the future. After all, if one speaks the truth, then they have nothing to fear from honesty. Surely, those goals of this movement that do have merit deserve no less. 
Brandon Williams is a junior history/philosophy major. 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author, not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Observer 
Pushing Own 


Agenda 
How can you claim to be serving Notre Dame, as your logo states, when you are so dearly pushing an agenda on its members'? You are not serving "Our Lady" in that you do not illustrate unbiased journalism regarding the issue of homosexuality on our campus. 
·Many of your editors and writers are my friends and I mean them no disrespect. I cannot sit back and quietly watch biased journalism regarding this issue take place without raising an objection. 
I am not here to convey my beliefs regard­ing the issue of homosexuality. I have my opinion and individuals within your paper 

are entitled to theirs. I am here to question the journalistic integrity that you have claimed to have over my tour years here. 
As a whole. you have made it terrifically apparent that you support the agenda of ~he homosexual groups on this campus, most recently by your "Pride at Notre Dame" fea­ture. Mass media have the power to shape public opinion, and I argue that you have abused your power and in the process turned many students off to your supposedly "unbiased" newspaper. You are not Common Sense. You are not Right Reason. You should not try to be. You exist to serve Notre Dame as a whole in an unbiased man­ner. This is why you are allowed to force each student to pay for your publication. 
Where is the bias? I argue that your bias does not necessarily exist in the content of your stories, but in determining what stories you deem ne.wsworthy. You have consistent· ly given a great amount ofcoverage to the gay and lesbian groups over the four years here while giving far less coverage to oppos­ing views. 
This past week's "Pride at Notre Dame'' feature illustrates my point. You gave two days coverage to the homosexual viewpoints while only one day to the administration. On top ofthat, Thursday's insert contained 10 pages devoted to homosexuals, while Friday's insert only gave the Church's posi­tion three. 
You are here to serve the Notre Dame community as a whole, not to push an agen­
; da. I congratulate you on your recent award for college newspapers in Indiana; however, I challenge your staff to live up to that award by removing bias from your pages. 
Nate Rackiewicz Senior, off:Campus April 26, 1998 




VIEWI101N'I'
Monday, April27, 1998 page 11 
• JED! MIND TRICKS • liKE ARROWS IN THE HAND OF A WARRIOR 
Searching for Substance Real Men Like the 
One of the nicest men I have ever met was dent body to respect people of substance, named Ed Mcintosh. He was a close friend maybe they should more honestly recruit of my father. In the spring of my junior year students of substance. 
WRC 
of college, Ed blew his head off in his front Maybe the University regrets the situation 
yard. The most ironic twist for me personal­ly (and selfishly) was that for months I had this nagging desire to drive home for no other reason but to tell him that he was one of the only people I genuinely liked. He was selfless and cheerful; he never had a bad word to say about anyone; he was always ready with helpful and pinpoint advice; and he was always nice to me. 

Kevin Patrick 
The last thing I ever said to him was, "I didn't know how they let trash like you two in here." (lie was standing next to my father at an Orioles game.) That's me. The quick­witted one who, rather than say something to brighten someone's day, takes the cheap and never helpful low blow. 
Ed was a man more concerned with sub­stance rather than style. Something far too much of this campus is lacking. How ridicu­lous is the debate over Joe Kernan? Here is a man of substance. But the over-privileged loud-mouths embarrass themselves and the University with their 

squawking. How pathetic. 'Twenty-five years yourself to Father Scully 
Of course the University ago, the student because he may be the looks at these students next president. But it with dismay concerning body was made of sons would be more mean­their antics. But the ingful to tell that one
and daughters of mill
University brought this on professor or friend that themselves. Every year workers, teachers, and they made a difference Professor Charles Rice in your life. Just yester­

the middle class who 

writes a column about the day Too Keller was University pricing most of aspired to be Lieutenant named "Mr. Bookstore." America out of this mar­He also led Notre Dame 

Governor. But due to 

ket. Now the University is Encounters, built homes stuck with more kids who institutional practices, with Habitat for have felt entitled to the Humanity and partic­style their entire lives and the student body more ipated in Galilee (a law have never been held school program that

resembles families to 
accountable for the sub­exposes law students to stance that they lack. whom the Lieutenant legal aid for the poor). These same students Governor. answers.' Guess what makes me 
have the rules bent to meet their desires. And if they don't get their way, mommy or daddy threatens law suits or flies out to further cushion their already unaccountable off­spring. I would be surprised if endowment contributions weren't being withheld because Susie and Johnnie don't have a more "nationally recognized" speaker. 
Twenty-five years ago, the student body was made of sons and daughters of mill workers, teachers and the middle class who aspired to be the Lieutenant Governor. But due to institutional practices, the student body more resembles families to whom the Lieutenant Governor answers to. Someone once wrote that you reap what you sow. These pampered masses are not the salt of the earth. If the University wants the stu­they have created. I doubt it. Regret is a tough thing to admit, and an even tougher thing to overcome. Thankfully for Notre Dame, we still have the Eric Giovannis and Michelle Lichtenbergers whom everyone on this campus knows won Bookstore Basketball over the weekend. 

They didn't? Everyone on this campus knows who did though. It's easy to tell the victors how great they are. This in no way denigrates the accomplishments of the Bookstore champs. Ask anyone, I am a maniac in my support for friends who play. They should be proud of their accomplish­ment -it was a tough tournament. But why don't we tell Eric that his work in develop­ing programs to rehabilitate juvenile delin­quents in St. Louis makes us proud to know him? 
I meet more and more opportunistic peo­ple who get to know you for what you can do for them rather than what you do for the community. It's easy and self-serving to congratulate Pat Garrity on his basketball accomplishments. But how many "friends" tell him how special he is because of his stellar GPA? Sure, he gets recognized by the NCAA and outside bodies, but why not the random guy in class next to him who would be the first to congratulate him on being named Player of the Year (an award he was robbed oO? 
School is almost over. 

It would be opportunis­
tic to further ingratiate 
prouder to be his 
friend? 
It was seven years ago this week that Ed Mcintosh killed himself. He knows I meant to tell him what he was to me. I have this bad judgmental and skeptical side that makes me dislike a lot of people. I wish that weren't so. 
Kevin Patrick is a third year JDIMBA. He would like to thank Too, Jenn, Dave, Jeevan, Mark, Bob, Greg, Jim, Betsy, Mike, Brad, Dave, Tim, Margaret, Keith, Tim, Anastasia, John, Colin, Mark, and those who may have been missed. It was an acci­dent. He can be reached at kevin. d.patrick.16@nd. edu 
The opinions expressed in this column are those of the author, and not necessarily 
I wanna complain about that Right Reason thing. I am a fan of the Women's Resource Center, or the good ol' WRECK. I call it for short. It's a great place, if you are a man. They got a pamphlet-thing with all the things that chicks can take in or stick inside their bodies so that they don't get pregnant. And there a bunch more pamphlets like it. 
Like I say, the WRECK is 
great. I'm the kinda guy that 
wants to have fun, you know. 
And babies are not my kind of 



Gabriel 
fun. That's why I don't like that 
abstinence thing. It has to have 
bin invented by some femi-Nazi 
gal, that wanted men to "con­
trol" themself and have 


Martinez 

______:=======----"willpower." As the WRECK 
pamphlet says, the problem of astinense is that you need coperation from both partners. I ain't gonna cooperate with no woman, Iemme tell you. Next they will start thinking we are like equals, demanding respect, and then they start thinking, and get­ting ideas. Aaargh! 
I don't mind the rubber too much. But better let the woman wear all that disgusting stuff. It's great, though. The WRECK pamphlet (like I said, I love that place) tells you what to do, and how to do it. How to tell the woman to do it, 'cuz I ain't doin' nothin', brother. I'm a man. If wearing something lets me have fun, that's fine, but it is much better if she has to wear it. After all, like the WRECK sez, the stuff that men wear is not "as safe" as those things women have to stick inside their bodies. I love it. We get to have all the fun, and no risponsebi -I dunno even how to rite that word. 
Sometimes womens (especially them Catholic ones) don't like the no­baby stuff. So l use something I read the other day in the paper. It's called a Population Bomb. I dunno what it means, but it sounds all intellectual­like, and chicks love that stuff, dunno why. I tell ya, it got them convinced. It had to have bin a guy the one who invented the Population Bomb thing. Thanx pal. Maybe I can buy one at a drugstore, like all the other stuff. I wonder if they have it at the WRECK. 
And if there is an "accident," I know I can always turn to the WRECK for help. They'll tell me where to send her to get rid of her problem, thru one of them Planed Parenood places. They got another pamphlet-thing with a price list, and addresses, and all that good stuff. 'Phere real friends, the WRECK. They understand a man has needs, and that if those needs have consequences-that's what the WRECK and Planed Parenoo are for. After all, boys wanna have fun too, you know. I don't want no babies. 
That's the great thing about the WRECK. It's really for guys, but the name sez "womens," so it fools them real nice. I wonder if the gals at the WRECK would like to see my trophy wall. I wouldn't even have to do any convincin' with them! Anyway, I tell ya, Rite Reezon, SHUT UP!!! Them womens like to read, I dunno why. I read only to get things like "Population Bomb" or "eye-you-dee." You're gonna ruin my whole plans. But you ain't gonna listen, you so-called men. Thanx for nothing, 
Gaston Inimitable Huntsman and Stud Extraordinaire France 

(I-RO-NY: n. la. The use of words to express something opposite to their literal meaning. b. A literary style using irony for humorous or rhetorical effect.) 
Gabriel Martinez is a second year economics graduate student. The opinions expressed in this column are those ofthe author, and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. · 

I 

I; 

---------, 
page 12-----------------~0BSERVER ----------------Monday,April27, 1998 
E 
~.·




Oc n 
A conversation on affection 
Paul: Look, I just came extent of this monstrosity of celluloid little Hache! who still works as a waitress' to see the new "X-files" abuse. I mean-they try to promote sen­at the Central Perk. I actually saw girls trailer which I heard sitivity towards the homosexual struggle in thn audience crying! 
001flfu@ ©®D®©~ ©~ lMJ~ 

from a reliable source on in a predominantly heterosexual world, Julie: Maybn she was so happy becausn the Internet was playing but then undermine it by having the gay­her childbirth lasted about 5 frames on
rmW®©~a®® oo 

in front of this film, so I lead ready to switch teams after Jennifer screen, and she did not even sm!)ar her wash my hands of this Aniston begins to traverse his treasure make-up. Director: Nicholas Hytner 
unholy viewing. Man, is it trail. Brady: No doubt-the end of this movie ninety degr;ees in here or Gabe: But c'mon, I mean, who would­makes zero sense. She coughs; and a few
Starring: jennifer Aniston, Paul Rudd, john 
what? n't? This is minutes latnr, 
Pankow, Alan Aida and Tim Daly 
Julie: What a film! It Jennifer she gives ranks right up there with Aniston. birth, finds 
"A Thousand Acres" on Paul: Even by ahubby, my list. And Jennifer attacking the locates an 
) 

~·s.l 

Aniston, what a wonder­stereotype, the apartment, ful choice for lead non­producers raises a child
(Out of five shamrocks) 

actress. Her idea of 'sad' stereotype through age came along as if she just worse without six or snven missed a 48-hour sale even knowing it. and watches By JOEY LENISKI marathon at Macy's. What were the lwr child per­Scene Movie Criric Gabe: The rest of the acting was quali­homosexual form at a ty as well. The guy from "Wings," the characters' pro­school play. 
/Jue to unscheduled brain trauma, the guy from "Mad About You" ...! think they fessions? A Mnanwhiln author of the reuieu• has decided to were trying to make it 'Must-See Movie.' kindergarten thn world slightly alter the jbrmat of his movie col­Julie: And I love long-relationship teacher, a quilt around hnr wnn. lie hopes that this new direction break-ups in movies, because every store owner, an c!'ases to will prouide a fresh perspectiue on character has this complex where they artsy actor, and change, and "Object of 1'./y an ear, nose, nvery charar­1\jj'ection." discouering and throat doc­tnr looks like some angle that some tor?!'? they wern critics may hww over­Brady: All we put into car­looked. /Jut mostly. need now are a naval officer and a con­bon-freeze for almost a dnc:ade, and tlwn the author just does struction worker! They set out to make relnased. not think that this the most ultra-PC movie of all time, and Gabe: And no signs of hibernation­mouie desenws a seri­they ended up with a project that is sickness either. Hernarkabln! ous ret•iew. about as aware of homosexuality as the .Julie: So what are you going to give it, 
Thn sc1~nn: four Notre Dame administration. Paul? souls, rising from Julie: I think they could have made a Paul: There is just no good way to tlwir c·omfortabln much better movie by just admitting that att<u:k this movie. If I kill it, tlwn thP Movins 14 stadium they do not know the first thing about inclusion groups assault nw for denigrat­chairs, bngin to dis­storytelling, and by simply parodying the ing the homosnxual plight. If I praise it, russ "Ohj!)Ct of My stereotypes to an absurd extreme. The then the inelusion groups raise nw up as Affnction" in a shad­movie was contrived with polar-opposite a champion lin· thn cause. So maybe I'll owy post-showing thn­characters, but the battle was so one­just make no linal judgment about lov1~. ator room. sided that I actually looked forward to homosexuality, single parenting, or quilt 
Thn players: Paul, an the conservatives making a slur or two. store owners, and instead critidze tlw aspiring journalist; Gabe: Why does everyone in this movie movie for what it is: a sub-par and Brady, a self-pro­end up being "fluiTy-puiTy" about every­unconvincing lilm which handles these daimnd movin-mastnr; thing? Jennifer Alliston's character tells issues very poorly in this agl) of "higlwr" Gabn, a witty chap with a penchant for only sufl'er until they meet one of the co­the father of her child to take a hike thinking. I am giving it one shamrock, buggary; and fiery female companion stars, which usually happens a few because of her own selfish problems, though, simply because I was blessed named Julin. frames later. Hollywood love is so conve­and his character high-tails away with­with the opportunity to look at this 
Brady: Thanks Paul. Thank you for nilmt. out batting an eyelash. Her character film ... and laugh at it. that wonderful experience! Do they give Brady: I have never seen a movie receives the shaft on numerous occa­(...But I still would have paid four dol­negative shamrocks? which stereotyped the stereotypes to the sions, yet in the end she is the lively and lars just to see the new "X-tiles" trailnr.) 


Ice Cube's debut lS• ice--cold 
used "what I got" to get over her head. The rest of the film is movie. the hell out of there. a battle against the trappings of the If you do decide to torture yourself 

All joking aside, this underworld that culminates with and sec this film, look out for the movie was bad, and Diamond working for BET and Ebony scenes with the cops, Dollar Bill, and there is no getting working in a shoe store. Exciting Little Man. They really are 
Director: Ice Cube 
around that. It is the ending, huh? funny. I do not mind story of a single moth­I guess what bothered me comedy at all, but
Starring: Lisa Raye, Jamie Foxx, Bernie Mac, 
er, named Diamond, most about the film was when comic relief 
Monica Calhoun, Ice Cube andAdele Givens 
who aspires to be a that for a film about saves what is sup-journalist. She figures exotic dancing, prosti-posed to be a 
. ) . . 

on paying her way tution, rape; and film about a through college by urban violence, I serious subj1H:t
~'il ~}.1 

dancing at the Players could not tell if this matter, there Club. film was playing for is definitely a
(Out of five 'Shamrocks) 

This works fine for a cheap laughs with problem. while, until Diamond's some of' the eharac-I think we cousin, Ebony (Monica ters or genuinely have already Calhoun), comes to trying to lighten the establishedBy JOE KRAUS work for the club and gets in way mood after some that lee Cube 
Scene Movie Criric 
pretty involved failed as a ------------.... scenns. writer and a
I had no dnsirn to go see lc:11 Cube's Just when the d i r e c t o r .

"Thn l'laynrs Club" mueh less write 
film would sort of Ilowever, th!)
about it. But this is not tlw l'irst tim!) 
make a poignant cinnrnatography
in my lif'n that I havn had to do some­
statement, Ice Cube was interesting.
thing that I did not want to do. 
wou I d throw in some Then~ W!) re S!) ve raJTo ratn Mr. Cube's directorial debut 
clown-like characters that great dissolved and inter-
simply, I haV!) to quote it. Two char­
s e e m e d Iike Photo Courtesy of New Line Cinema e s t i II g
acters proclaim to Diamond (Lisa 
they were Jamie Foxx leaves the small screen to costar in Ice t r a c k s
Baye) when tempting hnr into the 
straight out Cube's directorial debut, "The Players Club." t h a tworld of' exotic dancing, "You have to 
of a WB sit-showc~d 
us1~ what you got to get what you 
com. In fact, Jamie Foxx, who that his shot selnr.tion has potcmtial.
want." 
played the DJ at the Player's Club, Maybe, if he learns to write a littlnW1dl, that sounds like gn~at advice, is straight out of a WB show. The bit, his next movie might bn dncent.
and : should have taken it. I have 
really sad thing about this film, After all, the only plac1~ lee Cube haslngs, and I wanted to !nave the theater however, is that these bits of comic to go from here is up. It could notafter fiftnnn minutes. I should havn 
relief were the best part of the have been worse. 
Photo Courtesy of New Line Cinema 
Poor writing in this drama/comedy provides for an inconsistent rendezvous in Ice Cube's mind. 
·--------~~~------------------------------------~-------------------­




I like it like that 
By MICHELLE BARTON Assistant Scene Editor 
Filled with living and breathing tress, enjoyable music, and talented actors, the Notre Dame Communications and Theatre depart­ment's presentation of Shakespeare's "As You Like It" was both imaginative and musical. With solid acting and creative sets, the play proved enjoy­able to watch. 
"As You Like It," which is both romantic and comic, takes place largely in the forest. Intertwined throughout are themes of nature's power, love's ability to override all else, and political turmoil. The pro­duction ran from April 22-26 in Washington Hall. 
"As You Like It" is one of Shakespeare's mature plays, in the S<HJSI~ that he ful­fills the audi­ence's desire for comedy that is endearing rather than satirical and romance that is playful instead of mad and desper­atP. This cast was successful in mak­ing the audience happy along with the characters and root !'or their success. 
Sophomore l.ouisn Edwards capably portrayed tlw elever and lik­able heroine Hosalind. Hosalind disguises hr.rself as a man then goes into the forest with her close friend and cousin. Celia. played by senior Alicia Scheidler. There, Bosalind undertakes to educate her overly romantic suitor­Orlando, by teaching him to keep appointments and have respect instead of simply desire. 
Love-stricken, Orlando studiously follows her instructions, proving his upright intentions. Junior Matthew llolmes played a personable and lov­able Orlando who leaves the audience no choice but to support him in his quest for love. 
Other elements such as the dishar­mony between Orlando and his older brother-played skillfully by junior Mick Swiney-and the political strife between Bosalind's father and Celia's father are subplots which help devel­op the play. 
Much of the e<Hnic relief in the play was due to senior Drew Bausch's por­trayal of Touchstone. Appearing com­fortable and natural, Bausch was rnfrcshingly real and lively in his 'court jPster' role. lie was balanced out by the morP serious Jaques­
played by graduate student Chris Kudlacz, who delivers the famous "All the world's a stage" speech. Touchstone and his love interest, Audrey-played by senior Andrea Oess-humorously represented a lust­ful love as opposed to true romance. 
Director Reginald Bain effectively incorporated a simple set of unique, tall white structures with the changing scenes, from pillars in a dance hall to trees in a forest. His arrangement of interactions among characters on stage was natural and well-planned. 
As one of Shakespeare's most musi­cal plays, "As You Like It" incorpo­rates music and singing. Symbolic to Elizabethans of harmony and univer­sal order, music is usPd to awaken emotions and intuitive senses in the viewer. This is hoped to stir the view­er's sense of the spiritual so that they 
can connect more 
deeply  with  the  
play.  
In  an  interesting  

creative decision, music in this pro­duction was played from a computer in full view, just off stage, by characters who would simply step up to the land­ing and put on the music. The singing numbnrs were spir­ited and displayed clear talent. Senior Leanne Bobinson, as Amiens, sang skillfully throughout the play. 
Contributing to the theme of nature as a force, actress­es portrayed the 
trees of the forest. They made slow movements and shifts in the position as trees would when the wind blows through them. Some interaction between the trees and the main char­acters lifted the forest to the status of a character in the world of humans. These interactions added a sense of mystery and mystique to the play. The idea that changes within oneself can be brought about through communion with nature is clearly seen. 
Nature is the force which brings the four main couples together by the end of the play. Many of those who find love in the end overcame obstacles such as the pull of political power or desire for another, proving the power of love above all else. 
The play ran approximately three hours in length with one 10 minute intermission. Overall the presentation was effective. TalentPd actors and actresses displayed emotion well and interacted convincingly together to produce a respectable presentation of one of Shakespeare's fim~st plays. 


c"~~~~t N~w R~~~a~~~ 
At the theaters 

Tarzan and the lost City (Warner Brothers) Sliding Doors (Miramax) The Big Hit (TriStar) 
Source: Hollywood.com 
At the video store Copland (Miramax) Flubber (Buena Vista) Mrs. Brown (Miramax) 




The return 

Photo Courtesy of Dimension The rerelease of "Scream 2" brought the horror flick back to the top ten. 

Movie Title/(Gross Sales) 
1. 
The Big Hit ($11 million) 

2. 
City of Angels ($9 million) 

3. 
The Object of My Affection($5 million) 

4. 
Titanic ($5 million) 

5. 
Lost in Space($4.4 million) 

6. 
Paulie ($4.3 million) 

7. 
The Odd Couple II ($2. 5 million) 

8. 
The Players Club ($2.2 million) 

9. 
Mercury Rising($2.1 million) 10. Scream 2 ($1.8 million) 


Source: NY Times AP online 
of 
s c R 
E A 
M 




Video Title 

1. 
I Know What You Did Last Summer 

2. 
In & Out 

3. 
The Full Monty 

4. 
The Devil's Advocate 

5. 
Boogie Nights 

6. 
Mimic 

7. 
The Edge 

8. 
Seven Years in Tibet 

9. 
Bean 

1
0. The Peacemaker 


Source: Billboard Online 

.-------------------------------------------------------·------· -·-----------­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, April 27, 1998 
• NBA PLAYOFFS 


Knicks even series; Bulls, Lakers take 2-0 leads 
Associated Press 
MIAMI 

With a burst of emotion and a balanced attack that was miss­ing in Game 1, the New York Knicks landed a counterpunch Sunday against the Miami Heat. 
John Starks scored 25 points, Allan Houston had 24 and Larry Johnson 22 as the Knicks rallied from a14-point deficit to beat the Heat 96-86 and even their best-of-5 series at 1­1. 
Terry Cummings, who didn't even play in Game 1, grabbed 14 rebounds, including five on the offensive end, and point guards Charlie Ward (seven assists) and Chris Childs (a clinching late 3-pointer) com­
·. 
bined to shut down Tim Hardaway, holding him to 15 points on 4-for-15 shooting to prevent a repeat of his 34-point performance in Game 1. 
Game 3 will be Tuesday at Madison Square Garden, where the Heat's career record is 3­22. 
The Knicks, outscored 33-3 from 3-point range in Game 1, this time went 7-for-15 to Miami's 5-for-19. New York rallied in the second perioq by hitting four consecutive 3­pointers -two each by Starks and Houston. 
The playoff victory was New York's first since 1984 without Patrick Ewing, who again watched from the bench in street clothes. 
It was another bruising but 
clean game between two of the 
NBA's most bitter rivals. The biggest difference this time was the passion shown by the aging Knicks, who pumped their fists, bumped their chests and jumped around like youngsters as they pulled away in the l'olll·th quarter. 

Chicago 96 New Jersey 91 
CHICAGO 
It was another shaky finish for the Chieago Bulls, yet still another playoff victory over the New Jersey Nets. 
Michael Jordan scored :~2 points, Toni Kukoc added l 9 and Dennis Bodman had 16 rebounds as the Bulls beat the sick and sore Nets 96-91 Sunday to take a 2-0 lead in the first-round series. 
The Bulls, who squandered a 14-point, fourth-quarter lead in the series opener, nearly blew a 21-point lead this time. Sherman Douglas hit a 3-point­er to make it 94-91 late in the fourth, but Scottie Pippen then hit two free throws with 14 sec­onds left as the Bulls hung on. 
It wasn't quite as unsettling a victory as Friday's, when the Bulls needed overtime to pull out a three-point victory over a team whose leading scorers, Keith Van Horn and Sam Cassell, were sick and injured. 
Van Horn and Cassell were not factors again Sunday. But Douglas, Kerry Kittles and Jayson Williams, who was play­ing with a broken thumb, nonetheless attacked the two­time defending champions with a fervor. 
Kittles, who shot 3-for-17 in the opener, had nine points in an 11-2 burst -including one basket on a backward alley-oop lob from Douglas -and New Jersey trailed by just l I after three quarters. 
Los Angeles 108 Portland 99 
INGLEWOOD, Calif. 
Eddie Jones answered his critics -most notably Isaiah Hider -with his play, not his mouth. 
The sort-spoken Jones, aceused of disappearing in the playoffs, scored a playoff career-high 21 points Sunday as the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Portland Trail Blazers 108­99. 
The victory gave the Lakers a 2-0 lead in the best-of-5 first­round series, which resumes Tuesday night in Portland. 
Hider said before the playoll's that he would gd the bett1~r of Jones in their matehup. and he was correct in the open1~r. outscoring Jones 25-l 4 although Jones blocked six shots as the Lukers won a 104­102 decision. 
In Game 2, Hider Jed the Blazers with 24 points, but most of them came after the Lakers had taken command. 
At one point in the third quarter, Jones had outscored Hider 20-9. 
Rick Fox swred 24 points. Shaquillc O'Neal had 19 points and nine rebounds and Hobert llorry added 15 points for the Lakers. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame oHice, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Cemer. Deadline lor next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cems per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classificds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
Mexico/Caribbean only $250 r/1. 
Europe $290 o/w. Other worldwide destinations cheap. ONLY TER­
RORISTS GET YOU THERE 
CHEAPER! Air-Tech 
(212)219-7000. (800)575-TECH. 
www.airtech.com 
ILOST & FOUND I 
DID YOU TAKE THE WRONG IRISH JACKET AT SENIOR BAR ON WEDNESDAY NIGHT? IF YOU DID. PLEASE CALL 
4-4692. 
Hey!! Did you grab the wrong IRISH jacket at Senior Bar last Wednesday? If so, I might have your jacket, and you might have mine. with my car keys! Please call Barb at x3725 to remedy this mix­up 
Did you have skiing for your 4th PE this year? 
A dark-haired girl lent me her black gloves and I still have them -please call Nicole @4-0565 to cla1m them. Sorry about that!! 
=) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) =) 
LOST WOMEN'S GOLD AND SIL­
VER SEIKO WATCH SINCE TUESOA Y APRIL 14th 
IF FOUND PLEASE CALL DINO 
@4633 
YOU'LL BE HAPPY!! 
WANTED 
Anyone interning m Chicago look­ing 4 a roommate? Call Mike X3584 
MODELS NEEDED! Female and Male Models for an upcoming A VEDA production. Model calls are being held now. Have fun and get a great new look. Please call 1-800­356-5533 ext 1209 for information. 
2-4 Roomates to share house. 
2.5 blks from cmp&, low rent, clean. x1998 Need a fulfilling job? N.D. families looking for responsible, caring, energetic students to work w/ spe­cial needs children during summer and next year. Ideal for anyone interested in Education. Speech, OT, or Sensory. All families are in need of reliable, 'Trusting students with a special interest in helping kids. Please call Kim Lawton @ 277-4552 or 273-4848. 
Sales/Marketing Internships University Directories is hiring stu­dents to sell yellow page advertis­ing for the official campus tele­phone directory this summer. Paid internship. Training program. Excellent sales/marketing & man­agement experience. Call 1-800-7 43-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.universitydirectories.com 
Want to live in Turtle Creek 
Fall Semester? We want to live there in the spring. Let's share a lease. 
x2985 
FOR RENT 
Now Renting 
Campus View 
1 & 2 Bedrooms 2 Blocks from campus 
272-1441 
Summer and or Fall 3 bdr home. 2 blks from campus 273-1566 
Rooms in private house. 1 mile 
from NO. Summer rental. Greg 634-0766 
Need Summe·r Housing? Sublet available, rent negotiable. Call Jason 258-5414 
ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS 232-2595 
1,2,3&4 BDRM HOMES NEAR CAMPUS.GILLIS PROPERTIES 272-6551 
FREE SUMMER STORAGE '98-'99. 4-6BED. 2-CAR GAR. WID. V-BALL CT. VERY SAFE. 234-3831/273-0482 

4BR house close to NO. 
grad students only unfurnished. 
233-1727 1 ,300 
ROOMS AVAILABLE GRADUA­TION & FOOTBALL WEEKENDS. LESS THAN 2 MILES FROM CAM­PUS, CONT. BRKFST INCL. CALL 277-8340 
HOUSE LEASE 4BR 2BA PT FURN W/D/ D/W WALK-NO AVAIL 611 GRAD PREF (773)288-8822 
5 bedroom house for rent for 98-99, 105 Marquette 232-6964 
Room for rent in 5 bdrm house. 
Kitch. Washer, Dryer. Safe 
Nghbrhd, close to campus. All 
Util. incl. $200. avail. now. 
Paul Roy-232-2794 
NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR NORTH OF ND 2773097 
3 BDRM HOME, SAFE AREA, NEAR NO & UP MALL. AVAIL 8//20-5/20. $1000 PER MO. & UTIL. CALL 407-673-1779. 
Furn. Rm 
Wash/Dry 
Private Bath 
Kitchen $350/Eiec Karen 284-6257, 273-4517(eve) 
SUMMER SCHOOL STUDENTS: College Park Apt. for lease this summer. Fully furnished. Reasonably priced. To inquire, call 243-7720. 
6 BDRM HOME NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. ALARM W/D, $180/PER­SON. 272-6551 
OFF CAMPUS 
STUDENT RENTAL 
3 NEW PROPERTIES PROPERTY-1 .. .4-5 STUDENTS PROPERTY-2...6-8 STUDENTS PROPERTY-3 ....... 2 STUDENTS SECURITY SYSTEMS. STOVE AND REFRIGERATOR. NICE CONDITION. 
CALL DAVE OR CAROLYN 
291-2209 DUPLEX: $575 FOR EACH 
THREE BEDROOM UNIT. 
VERY CLEAN. WALK TO CAM­
PUS. CONSCIENTIOUS 
OWNER. 675-0776 
College Park apt. avl June&July. 
Call 273-9844 
CHICAGO-SUMMER APT. 
If you are looking for an apartment 
in Chicago for the summer (Lincoln 
Park area, 2-bdrm, fully furnished), 
call Liz: 243-5826 
or Brigid: 243-2765 
FOR SALE 
Beautiful brass bed, queen size, with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame. New. never used, still plastic. $225 219-862-2082 
·coMPUTER: Mac laptop w/ 
modem &printer included $1,200 
OBO 

•BIKE: 
Huffy mountain b. $100 OBO 

•NINTENDO 
for SALE! 271-7677 Maria 


93 Toyota Corrolla LE, 67K, great condittion, $8800.00 
219 656-4255 
92 Lincoln Continental, 67K, excellent conditition $9300.00 219 656-4255 
Gateway PC Laptop -Pentium 75, CDROM, Color Printer-$1900­Call Kristin 271-7458 
single and queen size beds, desk. clothes cabinet. Call Dave @243­1868 
1575 OAKHILL 2 BDRM 2 BATH CONDO VAULTED GREAT ROOM W/ FRPL FOR SALE. TO SEE CALL JONI/REMAX 235-3145. OPEN HOUSE SUNDAY 4/26 1-3 PM 
SPACIOUS CONDO walk to campus Diane Killilea 272-5444 
97 Mitsu Eclipse, CD, pwr sunrf, loaded, alum whls, warranty. Best Offer, Chris 291-4307 or 1­9795 Livingrm, bedrm, and diningrm. 
furniture for sale. Prices 
negotiable. Call 243-5719. 
TICKETS 
GRADUATION TIX NEEDED 
CALL LAURIE @ 243-4788 
$$$$$$$$ 

I will buy your extra graduation tick­ets. Call Jenny @ 687-8435. 
My 7 siblings all want to go to grad­uation. Extra Tix? Call Matt 4­3648 
PERSONAL 
UPS UPS UPS 
Shipping stuff home? 
Best UPS rates on campus! 
COUNTRY HARVESTER X1-6714 LaFortune Extended hours during finals Open Senior Week thru May 20 
ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and babbling brooks in summer. Snuggles. skisuits and a toasty fire­place in winter. Love and joy for your baby all year long. Happy, car­ing professional couple would love to provide a newborn with love. joy and security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­800-484-7011 Pin #4523 
LOOKING FOR A JOB FOR THE '98-'99 ACADEMIC YEAR? THE COPY SHOP in LaFortune is now accepting applications for next fall. Student positions are limited so apply early. 
ADOPTION IS LOVE Happily married ND Alumni couple, with adopted 3 year old daughter, wants to shower a new baby with love. Artistic full-time mom, athletic lawyer dad, and a sister to play with. Friends on the swingset, trips to the zoo, grandma, play groups, lullabies. too. This is a home where wishes come true. We'd like to get to know you. Call Shawn & Meg B00-767-4257. Legal/Medical/Allowable exp. paid. 
CLOSING SALE 
at 
THE COUNTRY HARVESTER 
25% off EVERYTHING (Irish Village excluded) 
X1-6714 LaFortune 
If you or anyone you know lost Birkenstocks in front of the pavilion at St. Pal's park on 4/20, please call John Roach at 287-3440. He is excited to find their original owner. 
SENIORS: FUTURE UNCLEAR? GO TO PRESENTATION BY MICHAEL ASSOC. & interNET, HOLIDAY INN 4/30/98, 8PM THEN CALL 408-534-1814 OR WRITE: ACHACOSO, BOX 3004 STAN­FORD,CA 94309 
hey mark--only 20 pages left!! 
can't wait til tuesday when we are 
done! 
excalibur--enter the night! 
sinbad· ... 
and indian food. what a great 
combo .. 
and i've never had more fun on the way home! 
Have you been married less than 
two years? A marital communica­
tions study is being conducted in 
the Psych Dept. at Notre Dame. 
$30 for a 90-minute session. Call 
Dr. Smith, 1-9408. 
You're fired 
I mean it 
Who's fired? 
You 
Why? 
If you don't know, I'm not going to tell you. So clean out your desk, and if you're here tomorrow, I'm going to call the cops. 
Uhhh, I don'tthink Security will care 

.-----------------­
·~~-----­

Monday, April 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 
• BASEBAll 
Streak ends, but Irish clinch berth 
By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate Sports Editor 
A doubleheader split with Big East rival Seton Hall on Saturday kept the Notre Dame baseball team atop the confer­ence leader board, but the opening-game loss snapped its 13-game winning streak. 
Seton Hall (23-15) won the first game 5-4 behind a strong effort on the mound by junior right-hander Matt Duignan, who allowed five hits and three walks over six innings, and a save by John Probst. 
"It was really a disappointing loss." head coach Paul Mainieri said. "We had many chances to drive in runs, being only 1-for­13 with runners in scoring posi­tion. but just didn't get the clutch hits. I was proud of the way we bounced back in the second game, though. We didn't hang our heads or dwell on the loss like we could have." 
With an 11-3 victory in the nightcap, Notre Dame (34-11) clinched a spot in the six-team Big East tournament on May 13-16 in Norwich, Conn. 
Brant Ust tied two team records with five hits, including three home runs, in the second game. The three dingers pulled Ust ahead of Jeff Wagner for the team lead (16). 
Alex Shilliday (8-3) took the mound for the Irish in the 
'WE QUALIF1ED FOR 
THE (BIG EAsT] TOURNAMENT, AND THAT 
WAS OUR F1RST GOAL. Now 
WE HAVE OUR SIGHTS SET 
ON COMING IN F1RST IN THE 
REGULAR SEASON.' 
PAUL MAINIERI 
IRISH HEAD COACH 
opener and suffered the com­plete-game loss, giving up five runs on nine hits while striking out four. 
"Alex didn't have his best game, but he pitched coura­geously," Mainieri said. "He gave the team a chance to win the ballgame." 
Notre Dame jumped out to an early lead following a J.J. Brock two-run homer in the first inning. Seton Hall pulled ahead with three runs in the second, but Notre Dame answered with another run in the third, as Dan Leatherman came around to score after slicing a leadoff sin­gle to left-center. 
A two-out, two-run homer by Tony Calabrese in the bottom of the third gave the Pirates the lead for good, although the Irish added a run in the fourth and threatened to score, putting the leadoff man aboard in each of the last three innings. 

Brad Lidge (7-2) earned the win in the nightcap, taking advantage of Ust's hot hitting. He allowed three runs on six hits and five walks, while fan­ning three in six innings. 
Aaron Heilman recorded his sixth save, pitching the final three innings and lowering his ERA to 1.06. The freshman righty also extended his streak of scoreless innings to 29 1/3 in 17 appearances. 
Ust homered against three different Seton Hall pitchers, accounting for seven of Notre Dame's 11 runs in the game. His first clinger, a first-pitch blast over the left field fence, tied the game in the second, but his second and third came in the eighth and ninth innings, when the lopsided game was all but decided. 
Alec Porzel slammed a clutch two-out double in the fourth to give the Irish a 3-1 lead, and Brock added his second home run of the day, and 11th of the season, in the seventh. 
Notre Dame's third game in the Seton Hall series was rained out and rescheduled for today at 1 p.m. 
"We qualified for the [Big East] tournament, and that was our first goal," Mainieri said. "Now we have our sights set on coming in first in the regular­season." 
• TRACK AND fiElD 
Williams shines in hurdles at Drake 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Spocrs Writer 
Senior Errol Williams joined an elite group of runners who can claim to be Drake Relays champions by winning the 110­meter hurdles at the highly competitive meet held in Des Moines, Iowa. 
Other Notre Dame track­sters also had a good show­ing at Drake and participated in the Boilermaker Open in Lafayette, Ind. 
Williams, an all-American, took second in his preliminary heat Friday in 14.28. He poured on the speed Saturday in cap­turing the victory in the finals in 13.77, his second-best time of the season, despite fighting a headwind. This was the sixth­best time in Notre Dame history in a field which included two other NCM qualifiers. 
"Friday didn't go too well, and I did a lot of regrouping," Williams said. "Saturday was a great day, though. I thought, emotionally and everything else, that was one of my best races of the season." 


"Winning at Drake in front of 18,000 people is a big deal," said head coach Joe Piane. "Errol ran as well as anyone at the meet." 
The quality of the participants at Drake was impressive, with Brandon Countz running the fastest 400-meter time of the year thus far, Paul McMullen running the fastest mile time posted this season, and the fifth­best pole vault by a woman in history also being recorded at the meet. 
Sophomore Chris Cochran was sixth in the invitational 400­meter run, recording a personal best time of 4 7 .52. 
"Overall, I thought it was a great meet," Cochran said. "There was a lot of good compe­tition out there. For the 4 x 100, I think we were happy with our performance, but we saw that we have to work on our hand­otis. In the 400, it was good to go out against some of the bet­ter competition in the country and improve my time and run the race the way you have to against better competition." 
Four sophomores were the competitors for Notre Dame on the women's side: JoAnna Deeter scored eighth in the 3,000-meter run in a time of 

10:04.48, Jennifer Engelhardt snagged lOth in the high jump by leaping 5' 8", and Nicole LaSelle and Alison Klemmer took eighth and 11th places, respectively, in the 5,000­meters. The men's 4 x 100­meter relay team of Marshaun West, Williams. Kevin Reher and Chris Cochran ran 41.24 in placing fourth in their prelimi­nary heat. but failed to qualify for the finals. 
"It was a good weekend in preparation for the Big East meet. which is exactly what we were looking to do," said Piane. "Each of the guys in the 4 x 100 ran well individually, but their hand-offs left a lot to be desired." 
The remainder of the Fighting Irish competed at Purdue. It was a last hurrah· for those athletes not competing at the Big East meet, marking the end of their 1998 season. 
"I think the meet went real well, considering the condi­tions," said field events coach Scott Winsor. "It was very wet and very cold." 
Senior Chris Smith was the only Notre Dame athlete to come home victorious, capturing first in the javelin throw with a throw of 189'5". Other top fin­ishes on the men's side included junior Mike Brown's runner-up status in the pole vault, tying his own Notre Dame record of 17'3"; sophomore Matt Thompson's third place in the shot put and second-place in the discus throw; and an impressive second-place by freshman Ted Higgins in the 5,000 meters. 
Freshman Bethany Wilson set a Notre Dame pole vault record of 10'0" in jumping to third place, and fellow first-year stu­dent Janelle Reklau leaped to the fourth-best long jump in Notre Dame history in 17'7". Another top finish was senior Janel Kiley's second place in the 5,000 meters in a time of 18:28.8. 
251-0674 

MATUBA 

JAPANESE RESTAURANT 
•Authentic•Healthy•Delicious 

Robert is the BEST Chefin Town! 2930 E. McKinley Ave• South Bend, IN 
Hhl \It, • J!IHI'"> •\!nJLS!I,-o\(l .. tJ,\}-;,11 
~ tc.)t,_,., 1997-98 e..L.•.t. Olfic.et.O ~ tut._..,..., Apt.. 28, 4:00-S:OOp..... 
· 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, April 27, 1998 
• MEN's LAcRossE 




Second-half run leaves Irish seeing Crimson 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu Despite leading 4-3 at the half, the Notre Dame men's lacrosse team failed to shut down the Harvard Crimson, falling 9-6. The Irish's losing streak extended to four games, and team has one more chance to end the streak-a home game against Hofstra on Saturday. 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Spans Writer 

The Fighting Irish rolled into Cambridge looking to halt a three-game losing streak with a win against a red-hot Crimson team ranked 17th in the nation and looking to make a NCAA championship appearance. 
But Saturday's contest did nothing to reverse Notre Dame's losing skid, as the 9-6 loss to Harvard gave the Irish, now 4-7 on the year, their first ever four-game losing streak. 
Both teams came into the game desperately needing a win as the season comes to a close in less than a week. Both teams had completely different rea­sons. The Irish, with only two games left to play, were looking to end their losing streak as quickly as possible. 
Harvard's win places the Crimson at 9-3 and will move them up the rankings to improve their bid for a tourna­ment spot. 
For two teams with such dif­ferent goals to play for. the first half of the contest showed two similarly matched opponents. 
"It was just one of those even games," said sophomore Stedman Oakey, who netted two goals on attack for the Irish. "They won because in the end, they [the Crimson] got all the breaks." 
The Irish began the game on top with a 4-3 lead at halftime, which they extended to a 6-4 lead at 12:15 in the third quar­ter. Both junior Chris Dusseau and Oakey found the back of the 
net twice, and senior Dan 
Butler and Todd Ulrich had a 
goal apiece. 
Crimson goalie Keith Cynar, who tallied 14 saves on the day, shut out the Irish from then on, sparking the Harvard rally that pulled it ahead. The second half became a completely different game from the first, as Harvard outscored Notre Dame 6-2. 
The Crimson tide began at 
8:09 of the third with a goal by sophomore attacker Lawson DeVries. which narrowed the gap to one goal. 
"In the second half. we got away from focusing on ball con­trol," said senior co-captain Alex Cade. 
Facing 43 shots on goal com­pared to the Irish's 24, Cade was able to register 16 saves between the pipes. 
"We knew they were going to come at us with a lot of shots; that wasn't the differencf~. The difference is they finished mom plays on offense than we did," Cade said. 
"We had some great opportu­nities, but WP weren't making the plays and finishing them. especially towards tho end of the game," said senior co-cap­tain Todd Hassas. 
The Irish problems started with Harvard's defensive st1~als, which fed thP Crimson's fast and forceful attack. 
"We had a lot of takeaways in the second, and it seemed lih we were playing a lot more defense after that," said Cad e. 
Harvard finished four more ofl'ensive plays in the fourth to secure the victory. 


r-------"-------------------~--------~~----~------~----------------------~ 

'"'rh';obs~er ·SPORTS 'r page 17 
• SOFTBALL 
Three-game sweep clinches division title for Irish 
By BILL HART 
Assistant Sports Editor 
As Villanova traveled into town to take on the Fighting Irish softball team, the series had all the makings of one of 
the most exciting matchups of the Big East this season. 
T h e Wildcats, the best hitting team in the 


conference, Giampaolo traveled to Ivy Field to face off against the Irish -the top pitching bmm in the Big East -for three games over two days. 
In the first day's action, the home team used its offensive clout to dominate its opponent, winning both games by scores of 11-0 and 7-4. 

The Irish took suspense out of the first game, using a nine-run first inning to propel them to the matinee victory. 
After pitcher Jennifer Sharron put the Wildcats down in order in the top of the inning, the Irish sent 12 batters to the plate before the visitors were able to record the second out of the inning. Villanova starting pitch­er Brenda Roach left after fac­ing her fourth batter of the 
morning, but returned eight fourth and three in the fifth, but 
batters later after her replace­the Wildcats attempted to rally 
ment had failed to record in the seventh, loading the 
another out. bases and scoring a run before 
The second game was a little the game ended. 
more exciting, with both teams The home team was led by 
jockeying for position until the Giampaolo, who went 5-for-7 
very end. from the plate with three RBis 
After each team scored a run and four runs. Sharron pitched 
in the first inning, Amy Laboe three innings while allowing gave the Irish a 3-1 lead with a only one hit to earn the first two-run double to score Jenn win, while Melanie Alkire Giampaolo and Daniello improved to 7-1 on the season ·Klayman. in the second game, giving up Villanova came back in the three hits and one unearned 
top of the third when Megan run. 
O'Leary smacked a two-run The victory in 
double to tie the game up. the nightcap 
'ITHINK ANOTHER BIG
The Irish put the game away clinched Notre more focused." for good with one run in the Dame's third THING FOR US IS THAT With the consecutive Big 
OUR PITCHERS ARE NOT GIV-sweep, Notre 
East South D a m e Division title lNG UP ANY BIG INNINGS. improves its and a seed in record to 32­
THE OTHER TEAM ISN'T 
the upcoming 18 on the sea­
SCORING THREE OR FOUR
conference son and 13-3 tournament. RUNS AN INNING, AND in Big East The exact seed­
THAT'S BECAUSE OUR PITCH-play. The wins
ing of the Irish also extend the will be ERS ARE MORE FOCUSED.' Irish's winning announced this streak to 15 afternoon. games, their 
On Sunday, LIZ MILLER longest of the the two teams [RISH HEAD COACH season. With 
the season. 
The Irish were led by Laboe, who went 2-for-3 with 2 RBls. Tully went 2-for-2 from the plate, while Sharron pitched five innings to improve her record to 15-6 on the season. In her last seven conference starts, the freshman pitcher is 6-0 with a 0.33 ERA. 
"J think another big thing for us is that our pitchers are not giving up any big innings," Irish head coach Liz Miller said. "The other team isn't scoring three or four runs an inning, and that's because our pitchers are 

played one more time with no rankings or tournament seedings on the line. While the playing conditions were differ­ent, the results were still the same as the Irish blanked the Wildcats 3-0 to sweep the series. 
The home team scored all their runs in the bottom of the second inning, after stranding runners on first and second in the first inning. Sarah Kirkman hit a ground ball to score pinch runner Korrie Allen, who sub­stituted for Kris McCleary after McCleary hit a leadoff double. After Dawn Cunningham ran for Kirkman, Lisa Tully singled to advance her to second base. The duo later scored when Amy Laboe singled to center field. 
The Wildcats threatened in the top of the fourth when they loaded the bases with one out. Pitcher Jennifer Sharron then used a strikeout and a ground ball to end the inning. Senior Kelly Nichols entered the game in the sixth to close out the game and earn her sixth save of 
the weekend. 

Villanova falls to 34-17 for the year and 13-3 in the conference. 
Now that the conference sea­son is over, the Irish now pre­pare for the Big East tourna­ment, set to begin on May 2. While Notre Dame will host the tourney this year, Miller believes that the home-field advantage will not be a great one. 
"The only advantage is that we're a little more used to the playing field," she said. "But it's going to be very difficult for us because of the timing of when the tournament is. We're in study days for exam week, which means that all of the stu­dent body will be studying, and that's not going to be the pat­tern that we can be in for the tournament." 
Before Notre Dame begins the conference tournament run, it will host a doubleheader against Indiana State on Tuesday. The clash between the Irish and the Sycamores is set for 4 p.m. at Ivy Field. 

New'98 Galant ES, 
Starting at 
ONLY 





oil)lf 
Sunroot:, Power Windows & Locks, Cruise,
$229/mo* 

15 'Alloy Wheels, Keyless/Security 
*42 month lease, $0 down, No Security. Dealer makes I st Payment, 12,000 miles/year. Prices do not include tax, title or license. Approved Credit Trade-ins welcome, but varies lease. OFFER ENDS 4/31/98. 
Ho~ 249 ·
New '98 well

'I Eclipses :~~e~t tmo* · 

• MITSUBISHI ... MOTORS 

B u I It F o r LIvIng.· 

just Minutes From UP Mall On Jefferson & Cedar, Mishawaka Local: 259-1981 • Area: 674-9926 Stop In And See: Brad Bam • Dan Broyles • Herb Doberstein 
EXCITING HONG KONG 
FALL BREAK OCTOBER 18-25 
$1365.00 total!!! 
AIRFARE FROM SOUTH BEND 1st CLASS HOTEL-6 NIGHTS SIGHTSEEING, TRANSFERS 
CALL FOR RESERVATIONS 


~tllk !I Travel~~: 
======f • .,...,~ :::=:::=:; 
:Z3l s. Mi.;hican St. • South Bend JN 46(.()1 (l19) l88·T:\LK (8255) • (1100) 3S6-3123 E Mail: Ietstalk@michiana.org 
Open Mon.,Tues.,Thurs., 8-9;Wed., Fti., Sat., 8-6 
----------~-·----~-----·----­
Monday, April 27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 18 
• CLUB SPORTS 




Cycling club gives students chance to ride away 
sports, and one of
Irish bikers ride for 

these precious gems is 
the cycling club. 
both recreation and The cycling club has around 30 memberscompetitive racing and is dual-faceted, containing recreational
By MATTYUNG riding and racing. Each 

Sports Writer 

week. the Club offers 
several opportunities
Concealed in tlw shadows of Notre for riders to unite withDame's nationally renowned athletic 1 0 to 15 other cyclists

programs are some less publicized 

and enjoy a fun ride through beautiful scenery of a heteroge­neous mixture of state parks and local trails. 
The club took a fall break trip to Bed Hiver Gorge in Kentucky this year and had a won­derful time, according to Traci MacNamara, a club member. 
"We got to hang out around the campfire at night and it IRed River Traci MacNamara (left), Sean Flynn (right) and two teammates ride around St. Mary's Lake. "Cycling is Gorge 1 was gorgeous. still pretty small here. It hasn't caught on yet ... I think it's partially the weather and partially everyone's We had a good time," academic attitude," says MacNamara, who specializes in road races. 
MacNamara. a senior 
McGlinn Hall resident, with class A containing the best riders. After traveling to Missouri and 
said. Sophomore Zahm Hall resident and Kentucky for some of her spring races, 
In addition to recreational riding, the club president Sean Flynn represented she will have the opportunity to com­
club also provides a platform for seri­Notre Dame in line fashion last fall on pete in the nationals at Clemson on 
ous competition against other universi­the mountain bike, competing in seven May 16. 
ties. The team competes against races and qualifying for nationals. The MacNamara's races are longer than 
Michigan. Purdue, Indiana. Ohio State three-day nationals were held at the mountain bike races -around 35 ' and a number of other smaller schools Devil's Head Ski Resort in Wisconsin, to 50 miles -but last for approxi­in two seasons: a fall mountain bike where Flynn competed in the 13 divi­mately the same time span. season and a spring road racing sea­sion and rode with the front-runners. MacNamara began cycling to enter a son. eventually placing eighth in a field of triathlon and has fallm1 in love with 
Mountain biking comes in two vari­more than 90. the sport, despite its small following at eties: slalom and cross-country. The "It !nationals] was a lot of fun ... This Notre Dame. · slalom models a downhill skiing race, year I tried some things out. and next "Cycling is still pretty small here. It while the cross-country race consists year I hope to be in the nation's !class hasn't caught on yet ... I think it's par­of a pack of 70 to 90 riders in an A] top 25," he said. tially the weatlwr and partially every­

The Observer/Jeff Hsu intense 20-to 25-mile ride around a Contrasting Flynn, MacNamara spe­one's academic attitude. Cyc:ling takns Sean Flynn represented Notre Dame at multi-mile loop. often lasting longer cializes in road racing and is one of a lot of timn. and peopln don't realize the mountain bike nationals at Devil's than two hours. Mountain biking con­club's few women cyclists. But she has that you rnally have to watch your diet 
Head Ski Resort in Wisconsin last fall. sists of three divisions, A. 13 and C. shared similar racing success. and get a lot of sleep." 

·. 

Have something to say? Use Observer classifieds 
ProFessors ~a.lce Plar1es.­
Need a little separation from the establishment? How does 30,000 feet sound? Well, thanks to our special Amtrak® student discounts, there's never been a better time to choose the cool, casual comfort ofan Amtrak train. 
As a special offer, show us your face, a student ID to match, and give them the code "Y814" and you get 10% off. Better yet, ifyou have a Student Advantage Card stuffed 
away in your book bag, you get 25%. 
Go home. Visit friends. Even go back for summer classes if you have to? All at up to 25% off regular fares. You do the math. Good for travel between April 13 and June 20, and includes any of the over 500 destinations Amtrak serves. 
Hurry. Seats are limited (this isn't a term paper you can blow off to the last minute). For more information on fares & reservations, call your travel agent or Amtrak at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Trains depart from the Amtrak station at 2702 W. Washington Ave. in South Bend. 

Offer shown is for coach class travel only and is subject to availability. Reservations are required. No multiple discounts. • Fares, schedules and restrictions are subject to change without notice. Blackout dates may apply. Not valid for Autotrain, peak Metroliner, or Canadian portion of ViaRail. 

Monday, April27, 1998 
The Observer· SPORTS page 19 

• WOMEN's TENNIS 


Half a Nerf Football 
The Gris olds 
Your best friend after downingsixteen all-you-can-eat tacos. 
Some things just don 't travel well. 
We do. 
Credit Cards Auto Loans First Mortgages Internet Banking 24-Hour Loan-By-Phone Touch-Tone Teller 

NOTRE DAME 
FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
For People. Not For Profit. 
(219) 239-6611 or (800) 522-6611 www.ndfcu.org e-mail: ndfcu@skyenet.net Independent of the University 



Hurricanes keep Irish front title 
By TIM CASEY 
Sports Writer 
MIAMI 

For the third straight year the Notre Dame and Miami women's tennis teams proved to clearly be the best two teams in the Big East. 
Unlike the last two years, how­ever, Miami pulled out a 4-2 vic­tory over the Irish to claim its fifth Big East championship in the past seven years on Sunday in Miami. 
The second-seeded Hur­ricanes, ranked 20th in the nation, are a very young team but are not lacking in experi­ence. 
The 18th-ranked Irish had no trouble advancing to the finals. They defeated Georgetown on Friday afternoon and West Virginia on Saturday morning to make their third appearance in the finals in as many years as members of the Big East confer­ence. 
Notre Dame struggl~d early in doubles play against Miami to faU behind quickly, 1-0. Unlike the regular season, where every doubles match is worth one point each, in tournament play the first team to win two out of the three matches is given one total point. Miami's Victoria Hunt and Katia Bogomolova were victorious at second dou­bles over Marisa Velasco and Michelle Dasso, while at third doubles the duo of Alanna Broderick and Selin Nassi defeated Kelly Zalinski and Kelley Olson to record the point. 
"It was tough to start off losing in doubles. We didn't play that well but we rebounded in sin­gles," said head coach Jay Louderback. 
Miami continued their strong play to start off the singles matches. At first singles, fresh­man Lioudmilla Skavronskaia proved to be one of the top play­ers in the country. Skavronskaia possessed tremendous power and placement off both the fore­hand and backhand sides and controlled the points from the baseline to defeat Jen Hall 6-2, 6-0. Hall is currently the 22nd­ranked player in the country and has competed well all year against top players, but Skavronskaia played at such a high level that Hall could not defeat her. 
Louderback was impressed 
with the Russian. "She is cer­
tainly a top notch player. She 
was in total control out there 
from the baseline and is a big, 
strong hitter. Jen hung in there, 
however but the other girl just 
played very well." 
Another freshman from 
Russia, Katia Bogomolova put 
the Hurricanes up 3-0 when she 
defeated fourth-singles player 
Tiffany Gates by a 6-2, 6-4 mar­
gin. Bogomolova is only 16 years 
old, but is currently the 3rd 
ranked player in Russia in her 
age category. Gates was very 
consistent all day long and com­
peted well, but Bogomolova kept 
the pressure on throughout the 
match with deep, powerful shots 
that landed near the baseline. 
"Tiffany came back well in the 
second set and was able to hit 
with [Bogomolova] but the con­
sistently deep shots were tough," 
said Louderback. 
Quickly after the Gates­
Bogomolova match was complet­
ed, third-singles player Marisa 
Velasco recorded the Irish's first 
victory of the day. Velasco bat­
tled back from a loss in doubles 
to defeat senior captain Victoria 
Hunt 7-5, 6-2. The first set was a 
struggle, with each player hold­
ing serve until the 12th game of 
the set, when Velasco was able 
to break Hunt's serve to win the 
set. Hunt broke back in the first 
game of the second set, but 
Velasco came back valiantly to 
notch a quick second-set victory. 
This competitiveness pleased 
Louderback: "The bigger the 
match [Velasco] plays, the better 
she is. She raises her level of 
play when it counts. Marisa's a 
great competitor who we can 
always count on in the crucial 
situations to come up with a big 
win for us." 
The Irish continued their 
comeback at second singles, as 
Michelle Dasso beat Elisabeth 
Habeler in straight sets. 6-2, 6-3. 
This was a close match, but 
Dasso's all-court game and 
quickness tired out Habeler, who 
cramped up late in the second 
set. 
"Michelle played an experi­
enced lady. She has continued to 
play well all year and this is a 
big win against a professional­
type player," said Louderback. 
Notre Dame's title hopes then fell onto the shoulders of the bot­tom two players in the lineup, Kelley Olson and Kelly Zalinski. Olson lost her first set to Alanna Broderick, but the second set was a classic matchup in a pres­sure-filled situation. 
Olson quickly ran out to a 3-0 lead before Broderick won the next three games to tie the set up. They battled back and forth 
.,

for the next six games and even­tually the set went to a tiebreak­er. Broderick clinched Miami's victory with a 7-3 tiebreak win and a 6-3, 7-6 win over Olson. 
Zalinski was ahead in the third set of her match at fifth singles before the match was called off because Miami had already won four points. Zalinski had won the first set but Miami's Meredith Lauhglin took the second to force a third and deciding set. Zalinski and Olson proved how deep the Irish are with their per­formances all weekend. 
Despite the loss, coach Louderback was happy with his ... team's performance, 
"We knew that Miami was an improved team from last year but their foreign players are very talented, experienced newcom­ers," he said. ''I'm proud of how hard we played and competed. We had a good weekend and look forward to the NCAAs com­ing up." 
page 20 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, April 27, 1998 

, The Observer photos/ John Daily 
TOP: Your Moms used double teams and fouls to render Off Shore Drilling's Mike Rosenthal ineffective in their upset w1n dunng Fnday's round of the Elite Eight. MIDDLE: Primetime's Garrett Ganske goes up and under Mickey's John Teasdale for another point in Sunday's final. 
PriDietiDie 
continued from page 24 
Craig was dominant for Primetime. He linishml with nine points and seemed to score at will on Teasdale. Kyle Hughes also brought his A-game and finished with six. 
Mickey's never really made a game of it and couldn't put together a good run. Primetime always seemed to answer, as they rolled to a 21-13 victory. 
Garrett Ganske. filling in for Mike Empey throughout the tournament, added five points. induding the game winner. whi11~ Kevin Hughes pulled down nine boards and held Teasdale to only two points. 
"Knvin does all of the little things for us," said Jani. "lie played the entire tournanwnt with a broken arm. but still playnd great 'D' and grabbed rebounds. lie had the rnsponsibility of guarding tlw otlwr team's tough ~-,ruy." 
Primetinw advanc:ed to the finals with a 21-10 win over Your Mom on the rain­

.. 
soaked Stepan eourt Saturday. Players from both teams could be seen slipping during warmups. but it was the first time rain n~ally affectnd play at this year's tourruun1mt. 
"It was miserable out there today," Haam Jani said Saturday. "We wem just playing not to get hurt, but I think it was to our advantage since Your Mom relies on slashing while we don't mind settling f(>r tho jumpshot." 
Tlw rain let up in the second half, so it was l'rimetime who started to pour it on. l'rirnetinw shot all over Your Mom and cruisml to an easy victory. They proved throughout the tournament that they are a second half team. as they outscored 

... Your Mom 10-4. "If we win the toss, we choose to shot at the basket we like least so that in the second half we can shoot at the basket we actually want," said Jani, who fin­ished with a game-high eight points. "Also, I think our conditioning makes us a better defensive team in the second half." The one vs. two matchup was set when Mickey's toJ'ped Malicious Prosecution in 
the second game. Malicious was without lacrosse captain Jimmy Keenan due to an away game. Malicious kept it close throughout with Neill Jakoby, a first team all­Bookstore selection last year. 
After trailing 11-6, first team all-Bookstore Jeremy Cole lit it up from the outside and scomd eight of his 10 points in the second half. Malicious tied the game at 14 and both teams started to trade bas­kets. Cole's free throw knotted it at 19, hut Alex Gese, another first-teamer, carried Mickey's down the stretch. After Gese drained a jumper to give Mickey's a one-point lead, John Teasdale hit a turnaround jumper to seal the victory. 
Following the finals, Craig and Kyle Hughes were named first team all-Bookstore selections. 
"You can't say enough about those two guys," said Jani. "I 
• 

think Steve is the best defensive player in the tournament and Kyle is such a great slasher." 
In his third year of Bookstore, Jani was named tournament MVP for his outstanding performance throughout the tournament. Despite only scoring one point in the finals, Jani grabbed several rebounds and was an incredible leader on the court. 
"I think it was more of a tourna­ment or career long award," said Jani. "I was shooting well throughout the tournament, but didn't have a great game today." 
Jani's unselfish play was a key in a Primetime's championship run. They will be the frontrunners again next year, regardless of whether Ganske or Empey will run the point. 
"We're not going to worry about that yet," said Jani. "We're just going to enjoy this one." 
• IRISH INSIGHT 

Craig, and shoes, return for encore 
Down on Stepan eourts, people know him by his shoes. 
The orange-striped pair of worn adidas almost went into retirement for this year's tournament, but sophomore Steve Craig laced them up for his seeond appearance in Notre Dame's annual Bookstore Basketball tourney. 
"I got some new ones this year and 


wore them for indoor," Craig said.  "Th!m  Kathleen Lopez  
people told me that I had to bring back  Sports Editor  
the orange ones for Bookstore."  

Craig brings more to the court than just his loud orange socks and his shoes. Primetime's forward, who still has two years of Bookstore ahead of him. landed himsell"f'or the sec­ond time on first team Nl-Bookstore. 
"I could have cared less about personal aehievements," Craig said. "I thought that it was just sonwthing that would happen as a freshman and never again." ­
"lie is a really intense player, and when he is in a ganw nothing is on his mind but winning the game at hand," sophomore Kyle llughes said about his t1~ammate. "Tlw worst thing you can do is make him lose a bask1~tball game." 
Craig complemented his imprcssiVP om~nsiw~ showing with his tenacious defense. lie rec1~ivml a tough assignmnnt of marking junior Alex Gese. who also was first tnam All­Bookstore last year. 
"Stev1~ brings strong rnbounding, prowess and a scoring thrnat to the team," llughns said. "You can't overlook his defense." 
Craig held Gese silent li>r tlw ~~ntirP first hall', and still ri'lanagml to eon lain him in the second. (iPse re11mirwd rather quiet on the ofl'cnsive mHI, S!"oring six points. 
"This game was difl'cnmt beccms1~ we krww tlw guys." Craig said. "We know tlwm -the Gesl' and !Hyan I llnaly team beat us last year. We an~ friends. Today, t.lwy werpn't. our friends and we wenm't tlwirs." 
Craig came into Notre Dame with pll'nty of baskntball exp_erinnce, having played varsity hoops both his junior and semor years. Craig also plays int1~rhall basketball with his tnammates li>r Stanford !!all. 
As a l'rnshman, he landed himsdf a spot on l'rinwtime because Brad Williams had knee surgery and was unable to be the fifth. and becaus1~ Craig happened to live in the sanw section as Kyle and Kevin llughes. 
"They got stuck with me and things have worked out ever since," Craig said. 
Primetime landed itself' a solid all-around player in Craig, whose offensive power proved too much for John Teasdale of Mickey's. Craig had no problmn shaking Teasdale in the crowd, leaving himself for open jumpers. While Teasdale had the size advantage, Craig had the height advantage, and his speed proved too much for Teasdale. 
"We knew we had a solid team," Craig said. "Our run to the Final Four last year was fun. but this year we wouldn't have been happy without it !the title]." 
With his proven success this year and last, the 11ashy socks and the old shoes will not be the only thing about him that people down on Stepan courts will remember. 
~OTTOM: Alex Gese of. Mickey's goes up for a reverse layup rn earl1er tournament act1on over the weekend. 
Monday, April27, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Miami downs ND in Big East final 
Bayliss said. "There are some fundamental things miss­ing in doubles." 
With their heads down after losing the doubles point, the Irish must not have seen what was in store for them in sin­gles play. 
The Hurricanes seemed to have knocked the wind out of the Irish, triumphing in three singles matches and at times making them look like their earlier opponents. 
"[Losing doubles] hurt a lot," Sachire said. "Matt and I should have won. It was our fault. We dug a really big hole and we couldn't get out." 
Uncharacteristically, Sachire also got buried 7-5, 6-1 in his No. 1 singles match against Miami's freshman sensation Rudy Rake. 
In February, Rake became one of only four players to defeat Sachire all year, 7-5, 6­1 when Notre Dame defeated Miami 4-2. 
With all eyes on the No. 1 court and with a cheering Miami crowd, Sachire could not fight back. After going under in the first-set tiebreak­er, Sachire drowned in the second set. 
"He played better than I thought he would," said Sachire, who now at 19-5 has no reason to expect losing. "I have a lot of things to work on. I have a hard time against players with his style." 
Miraculously returning balls that looked out of reach, Rake robbed Sachire of his serving powers. 
"He made great pass shots and put pressure on me to make great shots," Sachire said. "Shots I normally make that push people back into cor-


By M. SHANNON RYAN 
Saint Mary's Editor 
MIAMI 

It took the Irish men's tennis team three days to find an equal match at the Big East championship. 
But when the Irish finally met that worthy opponent, they were caught off balance. After deleting Georgetown 4-0 Friday and West Virginia 4-0 Saturday, No. 14 Notre Dame was blotted out Sunday in the finals against nemesis Miami, 
4-1. 
"It's disappointing," said coach Bob Bayliss, named Big East Coach of the Year after the tournament. "I thought we could win." 
Considering the scores in the routs of Georgetown and West Virginia, Notre Dame seemed to have been completely knocked out by Miami. 
The Hurricanes delivered their first punch to the Irish by gaining the doubles point. 
Although Brian Patterson combined his powerful serves with Jakub Pietrwoski's well­placed returns to rake in a solid 8-3 victory, the pairs at No. 2 and 3 faltered. 
Up breaks in both of the los­ing matches, the Irish were unable to put the final touches on the match and wound up getting finished off. 
Danny Rothschild and Vijay Freeman stumbled in the sec­ond slot. 8-6, to Miami's Diego Ayala and Mark Arrowsmith. Meanwhile, Matt Horsley and Ryan Sachire came undone at No. 3. falling 8-4 to Rudy Rake and Johan Lindqvist. 
"I did not think we would los~ doubles. I don't think any of us did." 
ners didn't even seem to affect him. He found out how to beat me and kept up his strategy." 
The Irish game plan also seemed to fall through at the No. 4 court where Rothschild was pounded, 6-3, 6-2. Miami's powerful Swede, Lindqvist, made the most of his big hitting to overcome the Irish senior captain. 
Rothschild appeared to be in the match the first set, but fol­lowing the trend of his team­mates, he seemed invisible in the second, where at one point he was down 5-0. 
Enloe, continuing his superb play as of late, was the lone singles winner for his squad. At No. 6, Enloe deleted Arrowsmith, 6-3, 6-2, bringing the score to 1-2. 
With Pietrowski, Patterson 
and Horsley still battling it out in the 85 degree-plus heat, the Irish were still in contention. However, the Hurricanes delivered a heat blast and took the lead in the remaining matches. 
The match hinged on the No. 5 court where Horsley went to the wire with Fernando Borja in two-set tiebreakers, before snapping 5-7. 5-7. 
"He showed a great effort until the end," Bayliss said. "He played very hard today." 
Regaining a second wind and even a little fire, Horsley fought back in the second set from a 2-5 deficit to a 5-5 tie. 
But with the match at a tiebreaker and with the third line-call controversy of the afternoon, Horsley's tottering match toppled into the loss 
column. 
And with it fell Notre Dame's chance of reclaiming its 1996 title as Big East champion. 
"Several players did not play as well as expected," Bayliss said. "We did not adjust well. It's one thing to not play well; it's another to deviate from a sound plan. But Miami played great. When the bell rang, they were there, ready to play." 
However, Notre Dames still has opportunities for redemp­tion. With the regional NCAAs approaching and a window into the nationals, the blow the Irish took from Miami might not be a TKO. 
"This will serve as a motiva­tor," Enloe said. "We'll take it as a punch in the face. Then we'll look at each other and say, 'It's time to go."' 

PROBLEM :YouR FAVORITE COMPUTER CLUSTER CLOSES AT 2AM AND YOU STILL HAVE AT LEAST 4 HOURS OF WORK BEFORE YOU'LL BE DONE. 


hour 

SoLUTION: UsE ONE oF ouR UNSTAFFED, 24~HOUR 
,

ACCESS COMPUTER CLUSTERS; YOU LL PROBABLY NEED A DOOR CODE TO GET IN1 SO STOP BY THE STAFFED CLUS~ TER DURING THE DAY, SHOW THE CONSULTANTS YOUR ID., AND ASK FOR THE DOOR CODE TO ANY OF THE FOLLOWING CLUSTERS! 
comptlter 
CCMB  210  25 Macs, 10 Suns  
CCMB  G015  12 Windows  
Fitzpatrick  177  99 Suns, 7 Macs  
Nieuwland  132  16 Macs, 12 SGis  
Nieuwland  202  52 Suns  
Riley  211  18 Macs  

I Use Observer classifieds I 

SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE presents 
DIDQAND 

AENEAS 
"J'i:3C ~ ~ "J'i:3C ~ 
I I 
directed by Deborah Norin-Kuehn 
A fully-staged production of Henry PureeD's work, the first English opera. 
Moreau Center/Little Theatre Friday, May 1st & Sunday, May 3rd • 7:30p.m. 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in O'Laughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday-Friday. 
Credit card orders by phone: 
219/284-4626 
S.aintM•rr'•Collele~ MO,f~flk_/ 
THE ARTS NOTRE DAME, IN 





access 

-
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, April 27, 1998 
Blue 
continued from page 24 
the Gold team. The Gold squad was quarterbacked by Eric Chappell and Zak Kustok, who alternated on possessions. 
Most of the eyes of the 21 ,051 in attendanee of Notre Dame stadium were on the new start­ing signal caller, Jarious Jackson. After completing just five of his first 12 pass att11mpts, Jackson looked sharper in the second connect­ing on I 0 of 19 but he also threw three interceptions on the aft11rnoon. 
''I'm concerned about the interceptions," David said. "But I like how he responds and doesn't lose his confidence and doesn't hang his head." 
Jackson worked with the Blue team the entire game racking up 248 yards on 15­for-31 passing. 
After several booming punts by Hunter Smith, who handled most of the duties for both t11ams, the Blue team sustained a drive that ended in a 1 0-yard Jackson to Autry Denson touch­

.. down pass . The Blue team struck again in the second quarter after a 58-yard scamper by Denson who was simply Autry Denson. The senior rushed for 109 yards on just 10 carries while just working in the first half. Fullback Joey Goodspeed fin­isher! tlw drive with an 18-yard
• run to make the score 14-0. 
"I was pleased with Autry Denson of course we all know what Autry Denson is," Davie commented. "lie's br-en here for three years and has bnen a solid pl1rliwmer so that's of no surprise." 
Also running the ball well were sonior fullbaek Jamie Spencer and sophomore tail­hack Darcey Lovy. On six car­riPs Sp11nc11r picked up 37 yards for the Blue squad. After working with the second team­ers in the first half. Levy thrived in the second behind the first team offonsive line. I.evy rushed for 64 yards on 11 carries when he wore a Blue jorsey. 
"I thought Dareoy Levy showed signs that he can be a pretty good back-up tailback for us," Davin said. 
Ttw Gold team took advan­tage after A'Jani Sanders picked off an overthrown Jarious .Jacks11n pass. Chappell connected with .Jay Johnson on 


a 22-yard pass to pull the Gold 
team within a touchdown. 
Chappell showed flashes of good play as he earned the back-up quarterback job this spring. The junior was 4-for-8 with one touchdown and one interception. 
"I think Eric Chappell has improved through the spring and I think he ends spring as the backup quarterback," Davie said. "Eric's strengths are really when you put in the option. He's improved as a pass.er. He made some good throws but did some sloppy things with the football." 
After the Johnson touch­
down, Jackson engineered a 
nine-play, 65-yard drive that 
took just over three minutes 
and ended in a three yard Levy 
run. 

Jackson connected with 
Malcolm Johnson who caught 
six balls for 11 0 yards on the 
afternoon, to get the drive 
started. 

As time ran down in the first half Tony Driver picked off a badly overthrown Chappell pass and returned it to the 38 yard line. The interception and return set up a 44-yard Kevin McDonnell field goal as the first half expired. 
The senior walk-on handled all place-kicking chores and was perfect on all extra points and his one field goal attempt. Jim Sanson did not play due to injury but McDonnell, Sanson and incoming freshman David Miller will battle for the kicking job next fall. 
"The kicking game was really a positive," Davie said. "I thought our deep snapper Dan O'Leary for the first time snap­ping with people in the stadium I thought he did an excellent job. I thought McDonnell did some good things." 
Defensively, sophomore line­backer Anthony Denman had a busy afternoon amassing 12 tackles including five for losses while working for both squads. Denman also sacked Gold quarterbacks three times on the day. Kory Minor earned defensive player of the game honors with his five tackles and two sacks in limited duty. Deveron Harper looked more comfortable at his natural cor­nerback position as passes were not thrown his way often. 
"All in all it's hard to draw conclusions from toda,y," Davie said. 
"Its just one more step for us to becoming a better football team in the fall." 


TOP: Safety A'Jani Sanders (5) breaks loose on an intercep­tion return for one of Gold's few gains of the afternoon. 
MIDDLE: In one of the strongest showings of the game, tailback Darcey Levy (31) rushed for 64 yards on 11 carries for the Blue squad. 
BOTIOM: Quarterback Jarious Jackson threw 15-for-31 for a total of 240 passing yards for the game. 


Captains 
continued from page 24 
makes it unique is the way the teams and individuals have done it; good students. good citizens." 
Howard, a veteran inside line­backer, missed five games in 1997, but averaged 13 tackles per game for a total of 91 in seven games. The 5-foot-1 0, 232 pounder from Hand, W.V., may not be the most vocal lnader, but is a powerful presence on the team, nonetheless. 
"In Bobbie and Mike Rosenthal's case, they're not the most vocal, but they are leaders," Davie said. 
Rosenthal, who has made 23 career starts on the offensive line, moves from guard to strong tackle and gladly accepts the new responsibility of being a captain. 
"My role is to go out there everyday and work hard, to lead by example," Mike Hosenthal said. "I don't feel any more pressure [being a captain]. It takes 11 guys on each side of the ball to win a game -evoryonn has a role." 
Minor returns after recording 85 taekles, thnw sacks and three interceptions at outside linn­backer. 
"I don't really see I being a cap­tain] as an added pressure, but taking on a new role of leading on and off the field. It's leading ver­bally and by example. Pretty much checking up on the young1)r guys and making sure everybody is doing their job," Minor said. 


Monday, April27, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
MIKE PETERS 
MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM SCOTT ADAMS 
THA.T'5 NOT A ------... GOOD 5IGN. 

The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and  D  Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  D  Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have Address ______________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City----------State ____Zip-______
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 

I CAN GIVE YOU 
E

EXCELLENT A.OVICE 
0 
u 

FOP-$50,000 
i ~ 

PER MONTH ... 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 30 Alphabetic run 

31 Kind of summit line 33AII over 
1 Inside the foul 
s Like lonesco's 34 Pinkish color soprano 36 Custard tart 9 Romantic actor 38 Longtime Israeli Charles foreign minister 14 It parallels the 41 Rock concert radius equipment 15 Perlman of 42 See 32-Down "Pearl" 
43 Start of a Latin 16A month in boast Madr~ 44 --Alto, Calif. 17 Robin 45 Mobil rival 19 Actress Shire 46 E-mail 20 Wall Street predecessor order 47 Oklahoma city 21 Brain test 491995 results, for short earthquake site 23 Some linemen: 51 Potash Abbr. 
52 Conniver 24 Hopes 
55 Having deep 28 School failure pockets 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
11 Chicken, so to speak 12 "A Masked Ball" aria 13 Friars Club event 
18 Part of R.F.D. 
22 Super-duper 
24 Royalties org. 
25 Pore in a leaf 

DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
Aries (March 21-April 19)-You 
' could go through a lot of money in a short time if you're not carefuL You might do it even if you are carefuL The latter is certainly the better option. If you're going to spend it, do it on something that will pay good returns on the investment. 
Taurus (April 20-May 20) -You generally keep a low profile, but it looks like you're stirred up about something. That's OK. You stand a good chance of winning the argu­ment. Encouragement and support from friends also help. You simply outvote this other person. And you can do it without making an enemy. 
Gemini (May 21-June 21)-You may be feeling kind of dense this morning, but don't worry. Your brain will clear by this afternoon. If youi ..JCAN.TGO can manage to schedule appoint­ments for Tuesday and Wednesday,
-~ OUT IN 
~r even better. Right now, you could feel like locking yourself in a quiet
f~ PUBLIC 
~fr dark place and vegetating. Cancer (June 22-July 22) -Meet

!1 ANYMORE. 
_orHI"NO/•IUU , E with associates early this morning. It ~~ will be easy to make decisions. and ~~ take action. There will be a tendency
a:: 
to get bogged down in details, but not until this evening. A situation requiring the expenditure of jointly held funds will require deliberation before action is taken. 
Leo (July 23-Aug. 22) -Don't argue with your boss or teacher. You won't stand a chance. Not only is that person stronger than you are, but he or she seems to have a chip on the old shoulder. There's soIF BUDGET I5 A. much to be done and this person feels responsible for all to it OHer to
PROBLEM, I AL50 
help.
OFFER BAD ADVICE. 
FOR THE LOW PRICE OF .$LI5,000 PER 
r-\ONTH. --"~­
57 Miler Sebastian 58 French tire &o Shot over the 
head 61 D-Day beach 63 Legal-tender bill &a Situation for 
Pauline? 69lce cream 
thickener 70 Industrial show 71 First name in 
cosmetics 72 Mother of Apollo 73--ex machina 

DOWN 
1 Raccoon, e.g. 2 Bitter 3 Not the party 
type: Abbr. 4 Browning's Ben Ezra, e.g. 5 Supreme Court 
Justice Stephen & "Gotcha!" 7 ---majeste a Saw 9 Trusts 

Puzzle by Mark Elliot Skalsky 
26 Service award 27 "60 Minutes" 
newsman 29lrk 32 With 42-Across, 
a famous pirate 35 Together 37 Woolf's "--of 
One's Own" 

39 Words before and after "for" 
40 Forbade 42 When doubled. a German city 46 Mortise's mate 
48 Stick 50 Ravel composition 52 Sub's eye. for 
short 53 Shows up 54 Buick model 56 Fell off 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle 

Observer ad 
are available by touch-tone phone: 
1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 

Call1·6900 
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) -Have you been thinking about traveling far from home? If so, this would be an excellent time to make your down payment on the trip. It's also a good time to learn the language. It'll be easier than usual if you start now. Get a tutor from that country to help. 
Libra (Sept. 23-0ct. 23) -The 

your friends and 
59 Feel the -­62 Make haste 64 Dinner table 
exhortation 


wish them well 
65 Fire 66 Computer's heart, for short 67 Dempsey stat 


with a special 
work you have to do is complicated, • and there are decisions to be made. You should be in a good frame of mind, however, and your intuition should be excellent. This evening looks good for traveL Take yourself out for a special treat. 
Scorpio (Oct. 24-Nov. 21) ­Your sweetheart is in a very persua­sive mood. This may be a little unusuaL Generally, you're the per­son who's doing the persuading. It's not an altogether unpleasant situa­tion, however. In fact, if you're not careful, it could make you late for work. 
Sagittarius (Nov. 22-Dec. 21)­You have the strength and determi­nation to plow through just about any barrier you run into. The one you're most likely to hit is a mechanical breakdown. Even that you can fix, although it'll take a while. You'd best not plow through that, or you'll be adding to the problem. 
Capricorn (Dec. 22-Jan. 19)­You want make marvelous plans that can only be achieved through miracles. It'll be hard to shake you out of that mood for most of the day. This evening, you'll return to a sem­blance of normalcy. It looks like you could actually get some work done after dinner. 
Aquarius (Jan. 20-Feb. 18)­This would be a fabulous day to stay home in bed. If you can't, at least get back there at your earliest opportuni­ty. Meanwhile, think of ways to fix up your place even more. You'll want to entertain at home soon, maybe even tonight It's about time you got it just the way you want it 
Pisces (Feb. 19-March 20) ­

You are willing to learn from a strong 
teacher, someone who is an expert 
at a skill you admire. If you're learn­
ing how to play the guitar, you'd 
want to sit at the feet of a virtuoso 
for hours. Devote as much time to 
that sort of endeavor as possible, 
even if you have to do your day job 
first. 




Hey Seniors: Congratulate 

-
.. 





SPORTS 
page 24 Monday, April 27, 1998 
• PRIMETIME 21, MICI<EY's 13 


Bookstore hits the Primetime 
By BRIAN KESSLER A<Sistam Sports Editor 
In a tournanwnt unparallded by any other and with founder Fritz llm~f'nr '72 looking on, No. 1 l'rimetime fought through difficult weather conditions over the wnnk<~nd to win three games in as many days and daim the Fritz 11oef'er Trophy as the champions of Bookstore XXVII. 
No. 1 l'rimetime and No. 2 Mickey's met in the finals yesterday, a chance for l'rimetime to avenge last year's loss in the Final Four to Dos Gese's. 
l'rimntime used smothering defense and an out­standing shooting p<~rformance by Steve Craig to defeat Mickey's and win the championship. Craig was up to tlw task of guarding sharp-shooter Alex Gcsc man-to-man and hdd him to only six points. 
"I usually guard Gnsn, but ho can shoot over me," said l'rinwtinw's Haam Jani. "Stevn has such long arms and plays great defense. Alex had a. great game, but lw r.ouldn't carry the tnam like he usually does." 
Hyan llealy opened the scoring with a jumper, but l'rimetime never trailed again as they quickly put 11 points on the board to take an 11-3 lead at half. 
see PRIMETIMEI page 20 




Onward to victory: Blue demolishes Gold 38-7 
• 

Jackson leads Senior captains first team to ready to take decisive win team to next level 
By JOE CAVATO By ALLISON KRILLA 
Associate SpurtS Editor Associate Sports Editor 
"Well I think we won." 
To he successful in the
Bob Davie spoke thosn 
nation's most high -profile
words at the press confer­
football program takes a ence following Saturday's 
savvy coach, a wealth of tal­Blun-Cold garnn. 
ented players and quality
Tlw Blue squad with the 
team leaders.
first team offtmse and 
The 19fJ8 Notre Dame foot­
defense nmtrolled most of ball team has solidified its
tlw contest on the way to a 
leadership, electing three
predictable 38-7 win. 
seniors that have all the nec­
"Wn wantnd it to he a essary tools to be good cap­rnward for the playnrs," 
tains -Bobbie Howard, KoryDavie said. "Wn'vc had 14 Minor and Mike Rosenthal.
real good days of practice, 
"I talked to our captains
had a lot of contact. and we 
about what makes Notre 
want!~d to sen some guys go Dame football unique," head out thnrn and compote~ with­coach Bob Davie said. "!Notre 
out the coadws in the huddle 
Dame] is No. 1 in national
with them." 
championships, No. 1 in win­
Statistically, the Blue ning percentage, No.1 in
squad dominated with 237 
Heismans. No.1 in all­
yards rushing and 248 pass­Americans, and those things
ing. compared to just 86 
-tremendous on-the-field
rushing and 118 passing for things. But to me what really

Linebackers Kory Minor (4) and Jimmy Friday(13) swarm in see BLUE 1page 22 Saturday's Blue-Gold game. . 
see CAPTAINS I page 22 



vs. Michigan State, Tomorrow, 7:05p.m. 


• Softball clinches division title 
vs. Indiana State (DH), Tennis, MIAA Tournament, see page 17Tomorrow, 4 p.m. 
Fri.-Sat., TBA vs. Hofstra, 
Softball, MIAA Tournament 
• Baseball splits versus Seton Hall 
Saturday, 2 p.m. 
Fri.-Sat., TBA see page 15 
at Big East Championships, Sat.-Sun., 






