
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 69 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
ND family loses two members over break 
Friends, colleagues remember professor John Yoder warmly 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN Associate News Editor 
World renowned Mennonite theologian and Notre Dame professor John Yoder died Dee. 30 after suffering a heart attack in his office in Decio Hall. 
llis colleagues describe Yoder as one of the most influential modern scholars on the topic of pacifism in Christian soci­ety. 
"Jie was probably the best known the­ologian in the English speaking world that came out of the Mennonite tradition of pacifism and other worldliness," said Lawrence Cunningham, professor and former chair of the Notre Dame theology department. "Any person in the field of Christian ethics has read or is familiar with his work. He had an influence on an entire generation. This is a big loss for Notre Dame." 
Yoder, who celebrated his 70th birth­day the day before his death, joined the Notre Dame faculty as a full professor in theology in 1977. He also served as a professor of theology of the Goshen Biblical Seminary in Goshen, Ind., from 1965 to 1984 and as its president from 1970 to 1973. 
In his career, Yoder wrote numerous articles and books about pacifism in Christian society; notable among those is his 1972 publication, "The Politics of Jesus." 
"More than any Christian social ethi­cist, he gave a coherence and integrity to Christian pacifism," said Father Michael Baxter, visiting assistant professor of theology at Notre Dame. "As World War 
see YODER I page 4 

A leap for knowledge ... 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

Julia Powers, a sophomore from Cavanaugh Hall, reached for a textbook at the bookstore yesterday. 
in ever~ pa~t.~f tbjs ·•··-lJ:UJVel'J>ity;!' said Father Edmund JQyce, a classmate of Wilson's in the Seill,inaty and, ~s 
see WILSON I page 4 

ND campus remains quiet during break 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 

After a Thanksgiving holiday rife with security problems, Notre Dame Security/Police experienced a quiet Christmas break, according to assistant director Phil Johnson. 
Vandals swept through park­ing lots, quads and campus buildings on Nov. 29, creating concern among some students who left vehicles or valuables at Notre Dame during the win­ter break. 
"We didn't experience any problems at all," said Johnson. 
"We did step up patrols over the break, but we actually always do that, in addition to· closing the student parking lots." 
Because most off-campus apartment complexes do not guarantee the safety of the ten­ants' possessions, several off­campus students took advan­tage of lesser-known services offered by Notre Dame Security to protect valuables, he said. 
"The students brought us lots of items, such as computers and other electronics, and we stored them for free in our building," Johnson said, adding that some off-campus students chose to stow their bicycles there. 
"If the weather gets cold, there's a good chance the bikes might freeze," he said. "Actually, any student who wants to store a bike during the winter months can do so." 
Still, the most common crime on campus is the theft of unat­tended property, according to Johnson, who stressed the need for students to guard their things both during vacations and throughout the semester. 
Notre Dame Security lets stu­dents register their valuables at that office, a program which helps the officers track stolen items, and ideally, to facilitate recovery. 
"The best defense, though, is to watch out for your proper­ty," Johnson said. 
"Just don't leave your Walkman lying around, or it might just ... walk." 

EPA fines Notre Dame $250,000 for failed emission tests 
By HEATHER COCKS 
News Editor 
The University of Notre Dame will pay a $250,000 penalty for violations of the Clnan Air Act that occurred two years ago, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency announced yesterday. 
The agreement pertains to the El' A's .January 1996 citation of Notre Dame's on-campus power plant, which operated three boil­ers that failed a series of emissions tests cond uctnd from 1991 to 1995. The agency also deemed sulfur dioxide emissions exces­sive. 
Notre Dame took steps to correct the problems, announcing in September 1996 that the plant's boil­ers and its sulfur dioxide emissions once again met EPA standards. 
"These are not ongoing or continual violations," said Dennis Moore, direc­tor of Notre Dame Public llelations and Information. 
"The EPA would not have let us operate the plant if any violations were still being committed. It's been fine since [September] 1996 when they finished making the changes [to the plant's boilers]." he said. 
The EPA citation noted that, if the boilers had continued unchecked, stack emissions could have topped the legal lim­its by as much as 400 tons of particle matter per year. . 
Sulfur dioxide emissions could have exceeded the limits by 500 tons per year. 
"Issuance of the fine basically wraps up our legal negotiations with the EPA about this," he added, re-emphasizing that the plant is, and has been, running safely. 
The recent agreement addressed the power plant's current and future maintenance and opera­tions procedures, designed to prevent any further vio­lations, Moore said. 
It also represented the EPA's ongoing approval of the pollution control mea­sures employed by the plant's officials, one of which involved using nat­ural gas in one boiler instead of coal. 
The University's general operations budget will cover the fine, Moore said. 



page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Not just another day 
off 

We're back here in South ~~~~~~~;­
Btmd already. Well, it could bt~ worse: We could be under six inches of ien without power in northern Mainn. But wn're here, and alrnady then~·s a holiday around the corner. And one worth ·celebrating. 


I've done this before. Dan Cichalski 
Twice, actually: I wrote Assistant Managing Ediror 
Inside Columns about 

Labor Day wondering why we students must 
attend dassfJS on a day when most other insti­
tutions and organizations shut down. But this 
column is about a morn important holiday. 
Monday marks thn observance of Martin 

l.uther King Day. In most civilized states in the 
nation, government workers will have the day 
oil' and childnm will not have to attend school. 
But we will. That in itself is not so bad, but the 
faet that there will be barely any mention of the 
holiday is a little more disturbing. 

I low many children, though, realize exactly 
why they have Monday oil'! 

It's been a while, so I don't remember exactly 
what we wern taught back in my small New 

Jersey hometown with its one black family. But 
it wasn't dose to the actual story. And I'm not 
afraid -though a little ashamed-to admit 
that I still don't know the entire story behind 
Dr. King and all that he did for this country. 

That's why I find it a shame that those stu­
denL<; who will attend dasses Monday will not 
realize why many people are home cleaning 
the house, watching television, or out running 
errands because of the day oil' thanks to the 

man most associated with the American Civil 
Hights movement. And don't forget the govern­
ment that so conveniently arranged the holiday 
to always fall on a Monday for that three-day 
weekend. 
So I think on Monday I will try to catch a 
matinee showing of "Amistad." It seems like 

one of those movies that everyone should see. 
It's as educational as it is entertaining, if you 
could call it that. 

No, it seems that the true meaning of Martin 
Luther King Day has been forgotten, or lost, by 
many of us -if we ever had it. 

This year is a little different, though. April 4 
will mark the 30th anniversary of the day when 
an assassin shot Dr. King while he stood on the 
bakony of the Lorraine Motel in Memphis, 
Tenn. That hotel is now the National Civil 
Hights Museum. 

Hopefully, the festivities, rernernberances and 
coverage of King's assassination will equal­
even surpass -that which the 30th anniver­
sary of the Kennedy assassination received. 

King was just as important, if not more so. As it 
turns out. Kennedy was not so hot on advanc­
ing civil rights. Too many Southern votes have 
be(m lost. 

It's not my place to tell my rnaders what to 
do Monday, but journalists tend to do it any­
way. May I suggest that you realize why the 

day is set aside as a "holiday." Maybe check the 
tP.Invision listings for any special programs or 
documentaries, or watch the news to see how 
Indiana or the nation is observing Marlin 
Luther King Day. 
Or rnad King's "Letter From Birmingham 
Jail." It's on Notre Dame's application as an 
essay topic, then forgotten, except for those 
who choose to take a class on civil rights. 
And unfortunately, Monday may just be 
another holiday that's lost its meaning. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAv'S STAFF 
News Sean Smith Christine Kraly Sarah Dylag Sports Brian Kessler Viewpoint Mary Margaret Nussbaum Accent Rachel Torres 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation period~. The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc reserved. 
Graphics Jon King Production Mark DeBoy Lab Tech Kevin Dalum Katie Kroener 

The Observer· INSIDE Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Officials investigate Washington State student's death 
PULLMAN, Wash. 

A young man's death in a residence hall has officials struggling to find answers. 
During the early morning hours Sunday, WSU police received a dis­tress call from Gannon Hall. They arrived at the first floor of the dorm to find a white male unconscious on the hallway floor. llis two compan­ions stood over him. Paramedics attempted to revive Baron Godwin, and he was taken to Pullman Memorial Hospital. The 19-year-old man was pronounced dead by hospi­tal ollicials at 6:01 a.m. 
WSU police report he was visiting a male friend who lives at Gannon Ilall. Godwin and his two companions were ofT campus drinking before the incident occurred. 
"We're waiting for the toxicology report," WSU police chief Bill Mercier said. "There was no sign of violence." 
• NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Student officer guilty of misconduct 
EVANSTON, Ill. 
After about 40 hours of hearings and deliberations, the ASG Ethics Committee has found ASG Iinancial vice presi­dent Roderic Williams guilty of financial misconduct and is asking for his resignation, committee chairman Rob McGuire announced Monday. The six-member committee unanimously found Williams, an education senior, guilty of forging ASG Speaker of the Senate Mark Kersey's signature on Student Organization Finance Office vouchers in order to transfer $5,500 from one ASG account to another. Williams then used the money to buy computer equipment for the ASG oflice, the committee alleges. "The ethics committee ruled the computer purchase a dereliction of duty" because Senate authorization is requirnd to spend activity fee money. The committee also concluded that Williams had been "less than fully truthful" with Senate about the issue. Williams, who was notified of the committee's decision by McGuire around noon Monday, said he is innocent. 
• STANFORD UNIVERSITY 
Curriculum now includes sign language 
STANFORD, Calif. 
Students who wish to have American Sign Language 
fulfill their language requirement can now petition to do 
so, according to an October decision by the Commission 
on Undergraduate Studies. This new policy resolves the 
debate over sign language 13 years after the initial pro­
posal. Each petition will be approved or denied at the 
discretion of Elizabeth Bernhardt-Kamil, Language 
Center director and German language professor_ 
Bernhardt-Kamil explained that she interviews each 
student to gel to know them, as well as to discern their 
intellectual interest in sign language. "I want to make 
sure the students are not taking the easy way out, as the 
Commission for Undergraduate Studies was worried 
about. I always maintained that sign language should 
fulfill the requirement since the goal of the requirement 
is to promote knowledge of other languages," she said. 

Sund~y . ~ 21 9 
Hessui. IT] ES) ~ 
\._5'--'\if\,........ ~..'.,;""~~:..) 

HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T·STORMS Vta AssooBled Prttss 
Atlanta 63 58 Dallas Boise 33 27 Fargo
4,~,~9-QQ~~u Boston 41 36 Helena 
Showers T·storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 30 18 Indianapolis 30 27 Seattle 40 36 
Vta Associated Press GraphicsNet 
Cincinnati 49 40 Las Vegas 40 34 Wash. D.C. 61 57 
...... 

Godwin's body was taken to the Whitman County coroner, and his parents were notified Sunday at their home in Kennewick. 
County coroner Pete Martin said the cause of death was cardiac arrest. No report of a direct link to alcohol abuse has been released. Specific details of his heart stoppage will not be reported until his family 
• UNIVERSITY oF SouTHERN CALIFORNIA · 
USC grant to promote diversity 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 

USC is one of eight universities that has been awarded 
a $75,000 grant from the William and Flora Hewlett 
Foundation, which is intended to promote diversity and 
cross-cultural awareness as well as to set up extracur­
ricular activities directed toward achieving those 
goals.The grant, in addition to a $25,000 supplement, 
will be used to fund empirical benchmark surveys. a 
summer institute and a project designed to create dia­
logue between students and faculty on important diversi­
ty issues. The two-year grant was given after a national 
competition under the Hewlett Foundation's program for 
pluralism and unity. The grant's proposal was entitled, 
"From Factions and Ethnos to Polis and Back: A Campus 
Collaboration Project." "[The grant's! ultimate goal is to 
develop a more interactively diversll campus," said 
Barbara J. Solomon, vice provost for Faculty and 
Minority Affairs. 

• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Prime Minister's wife carries on message 
IMVIS, Calif. 

Lea Rabin speaks with the voice that is no longer 
heard by Israel and the rest of the world -the voice of 
her husband. The widow of former Israeli Prime 
Minister Yitzhak Babin -assassinated in November 
1995 by an Israeli extremist -carne to Freeborn Ilall 
on Sunday night as part of the UC Davis Presents 1997­
98 Distinguished Speaker Series, delivering a speech 
entitled "Perspectives on Peace and the Future of the 
Middle East." UCD professor Naomi Janowitz introduced 
Habin, noting that Yilzhak's mission of peace is being 
furthered by his widow's words. "IHabinl has been 
involved in every aspect of the lif'e of Israel and its gov­
ernment," Janowitz said. "Since her husband's death, 
Lea Babin has worked tirelessly to carry forward 
[Israel's] message [of peace[." Habin began her speech 
with a delineation of the history of Israel, seen through 
her eyes. 

receives the information. 
Hesidenls of Gannon were briefed on the incident Sunday at 9 p.m. Limited information was availabl!l at that time. The residence hall is scheduled to host an aleohol educa­tion session. 
An informational floor meeting is tentatively schcd uled for Tuesday to update residents and a worker from counseling services will attend the meeting. The representative is expected to help the students deal with the emotional aspects of the tragedy. 
Kurtis Kruse, a counselor for coun­seling services, said students should not ignore llwir reactions to the inci­dent. 
"It's important for them to under­stand and accept their reactions," he said. "If the reaction goes beyond the person's ability to handle it, they should talk to someone." 
0 FLURRIES  IZ] SNOW  G ICE  i) SUNNY  ~ u PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY  
45 24 4  39 14 -3  Los Angeles 60 New York 44 Philadelphia 56  54 39 50  

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Hend Forecast 
AccuWeather181 forecast for daytime conditions nnd high temperatures 
\r,__.__,•.:.:.......................................mH 

L 
Wednesday~  26. 17  
Thursday  ~  d430 "19  
Friday  ~  22 15  
Saturday  19 11  

• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Wednesday, Jan. 14. 
FRONTS: 
~ ......__._ ......-.......­
COLD WARM STATIONARY 
C 1996 AccuWeatller. Inc 



Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Two ND professors honored 
Special to The Observer and financial statement analy-He was a member of the 
sis. mathematics department's 
Paquita Davis Friday, assis­Friday received a bachelor's executive committe~ and se~ved tant professor of accountancy at degree in accounting and as department chatr an? dtrec­the University of Notre Dame, finance and master's degrees in tor of graduate studtes. He has received the 1997 accounting and applied eco-received the Graduate Scho?l Outstanding International nomics from the University of Award from Notre Dame m Accounting Dissertation Award Michigan. She worked as an 1992 for _his service to the from the American Accounting auditor for Deloitte & Touche mathemattcs department. He Association. before returning to Ann Arbor retired in 1994. 
A member of the Notre Dame to earn her doctorate, which A specialist in differentiable faculty since 1996, Friday used she received in 1996. and complex manifolds, Stoll is accounting information found in Additionally. Wilhelm Stoll. known in his field fo~ his thor­financial statements to analyze Duncan professor emeritus of ough and lengthy articles.. Stoll the value of Mexican firms for a mathematics at the University of was so well known, accordmg to dissortation titled "An lnllation Notre Dame has been elected a members of his department, Spocification of an Accounting­fellow or' the American that the standard unit of mea-1 Based Valuation Model with Association for the surement for the length of pub-Empirical Evidence from Advancement of Science. \ications has become the "Stoll," Mexican Accounting A native of Freiburg, with all other articles written Disdosures." Germany, Stoll was educated at measured in. "micro-St~lls:" 
She specializes in studying the the University of Tybingen and The Amencan Assoct3:twn f~r relationship between interna­taught there for six years. He the Adva.ncement of Sct.enc~ ~s tional financial reporting and joined the Notre Dame faculty in the leadmg general setentlftc rirm valuation. as well as the ·1960 and was named the organization in the United role of accounting diselosures in Vincent J. Duncan and States. Its fellows are elected on security valuation. ller teach­Annemarie Micus Duncan the basis of distinguished ing interests include financial Professor of Mathematics in advancements in science or its and international accounting 1988. applications. 
Recognized pianist to hold recital 
Special to The Observer Jacob's concert appearances include formal debut recitals at New York's Carnegie Recital Hall Intp,rnationally recognized pianist Jeffrey Jacob and London's Wigmore Hall, as well as numerous will perform a faculty recital on Sunday at 2:30 performances throughout Europe, Canada and the 
p.m. in the Moreau Center Little Theater on the United States. campus of Saint Mary's Colloge. Jacob has recorded more than 30 works for solo 
Described by the Warsaw Music Journal as piano and has made radio recordings for ~adio "unquestionably, one of the greatest living per­Prague and Radio Warsaw, as well as a senes of formors of 20th-century music." Jacob has estab­recordings of American piano music for the BBC. lished an international reputation both as an Other notable events include a concert tour of the interpreter of the standard repertoire and as a People's Republic of China, a 1990 series of proponent of contemporary music. He received his recitals in Moscow and Leningrad, and a 1991 master's from the Julliard School. his doctorate concert tour of Australia and New Zealand. from the Peabody Conservatory and a performer's The event is free and open to the public. The certificate from the Salzburg Mozarteum, and program will include works by Mozart, Schumann, counts as his principal teachers Mieczyslew Munz, Bartok, Copland and Barber. Jacob is a professor Carlo Zecchi and Leon Fleisher. of music at Saint Mary's. 
A Report from the University Committee on Cultural Diversity to the University Community January 13, 1998 
Father Malloy appointed a Task Force on Cultural Diversity during during the spring of 1991 in response to a request from Students United for Respect. Among the recommendations of that Task Force, which carried out its work over the course of the 1992-93 acad­emic year, was a recommendation that a University Committee on Cultural Diversity be established. 
This Committee began its work at that time, with Dr. Roland Smith II, then executive assistant to the presi­dent, as chair. Dr. Smith was appointed associate provost of Rice University in August 1996. 
Most recently, the Committee, the Committee was reconstituted by Father Malloy at the end of the 1996-97 year, with Professor Carol Ann Mooney, vice president and associate provost, and Father Richard Warner, counselor to the president, as chair and vice chair, respectively. 
The Committee, which is comprised of 15 mem­bers of the faculty, administration and staff, has been working through three subcommittees: Academic Affairs, Campus Climate and Recruitment and Retention. 
The three subcommittees have been working on the following issues: 
• 
Academic Affairs: gathering information on multicultural courses currently offered at Notre Dame; conversations with academic administrators concerning the multicultural content of course offerings; African American and Latino studies; publication and distribution of course offerings. 

• 
Campus Climate: working closely with Bookstore Basketball commissioners to find ways to lessen and eliminate racial tensions and incidents that have occurred in this annual spring event; open hearing with underrepresented students following the publication in The Observer of a cartoon considered offensive by many mem­bers of the University community. 

• 
Recruitment and Retention: conversations with the Offices of Undergraduate Admissions and Financial Services for Students; meetings with academic adminis­trators. 


The Committee meets once a month, and the expectation is that the sub­committees meet and work prior to the Committee meeting and present reports and updates. 
For the current semester the Committee plans to continue the work listed above in addition to the following efforts: 
Seven students, chosen from graduate, professional and undergraduate stu­dents, will be added to the three subcommittees to provide for student participation in the work of the Committee beginning immediately. The Student Body president is an ex-officio member of the Committee. 
Three listening sessions will be offered during the semester with high rank­ing officials from the Offices of the President, Student Affairs, and Provost. Our desire is that direct dialogue at this high level will enable students and administra­tors to enter into respectful dialogue about issues of common concern. 
Ideas and recommendations from members of the faculty, administration and students are most welcome. Please sent recommendations and concerns to Prof. Carol Ann Mooney, Vice President and Associate Provost, 237 Hayes Healy Center (631-4590) or to Rev. Richard Warner, C.S.C., Counselor to the President, 133A Hayes-Healy Center (631-8051) 
page 4 The Observer· OBITUARIES Wednesday, January 14, 1998 

Yoder 
continued from page 1 
II approached, and in its wake, the prevailing theory was Christian realism. It urged Christians to take responsibility for justice in the world, through usc of force if necessary. The Gospel became a disembodied ideal that is unrealizable in this life. 
"John [Yoder) showed that Jesus is realizable if one takes the call to discipleship seriously and sees the world through the lens of cross and resurrection," Baxter added. "lie really called Christians back. Not all theolo­gians agreed with him, but they all thought they had to respond to him." 
"He made everyone rethink the place of pacifism in Christianity," agreed Notre Dame theology professor Maura Hyan. "lie claimed that in his lifetime he only ever made a pacifist out of one person. But anyone that read 'The Politics of Jesus' had to rethink their concept of a 'just war.' It really makes anyone that reads it return to the political signifi­cance of Jesus." 
Many also considered Yoder the defender of pacifism in the Mennonite tradition. Studying under Karl Barth at the University of Basel in Switzerland, Yoder presented a 50-page paper criticizing Barth and fellow theologian Heinhold Neibuhr about their stance on the place of the pacifist theolo­gy. 
"lie brought pacifism right into the heart of Christian the­ology," Hyan said. "You couldn't encounter his work without coming away somehow changed. After reading it you had to ask serious questions of the tradition or of your witness of Christianity." 
"lie was a guide and intellec­tual mentor for people in the peace movement," added Baxter. "From the 1960s on he met and worked with men such as Daniel Berrigan, a Catholic peace activist. I worked with a group of peace activists in Colorado a few years ago and they were always talking about Yoder and his work." 

In the late 1940s and early 1950s, Yoder became heavily involved in Mennonite relief programs in France and Algeria before the eruption of the Algerian struggle against French rule. 
"In reading his work, you return again and again to what role violence plays in Christian society," Hyan noted. "Not just violence in general, but violence between Christians as well." 
John Cavadini, current chair of the theology department, remembered Yoder as "a prophetic presence [who] had the ability to speak the truth in a way that would be heard." He added that Yoder's death is "a huge loss for the field of Christian ethics, for our depart­ment and our University, and it's not just an academic loss. It's a real human loss." 
Yoder's younger colleagues remember him as a patient, generous mentor who never failed to fairly consider their ideas. 
"His door was always open to students and colleagues," said Baxter. "As a matter of fact, I believe he even e-mailed one of our graduate students 45 min­utes before he died. He was always discussing, always working." 
"He had a profound impact on a whole generation," Hyan said. "lie was a very generous colleague, he was patient in reading your work. He was challenging, but he was also very receptive. We'll miss him." 
Yoder was born in 1926 in Smithville. Ohio, and attended Goshen College, a predominant­ly Mennonite college in Goshen, Ind. lie received his bachelor's degree there in only two years and his master's in one. 
From there he went on to do his doctoral work in Switzerland. He taught theology at Goshen College, The Associated Mennonite Biblical Seminary (previously the Goshen Biblical Seminary), and the University of Notre Dame. 
The New York Times con­tributed to this report. 
not in the novitiate together, at the University. "He was a but we both entered the com­regular Notre Dame grad and

Wilson 

munity in 1949. was just as interested as any "Both of us had business and other alumni," .Joyce recalled. 
continued from page 1 

financial backgrounds, so, in While in office, in addition to llesburgh's executive vice 1952, when I was made administering the physical president, Wilson's direct Father Hesburgh's executive plant of the University, Wilson superior. "All of the officers vice president, he was moved directed the Old College that worked with him liked in to the place that I vacated Seminary Program and taught him. accounting. 
"We worked closely for the After he retired from the 25 years that he was a vice administration in 1978, he
'HE HAD BEEN SICK, BUT 
president and I can say that served in campus ministry
RECENTLY HE WAS GET-
he did a good and compe­at Saint Mary's College, tent job," Joyce added. "He TING BETTER, SO HIS DEATH assisted in the ministries of was never mean or rough in St. Joseph Parish, and 
CAUGHT US ALL BY SURPRISE. HE served as chaplain in the
anything that he did." Wilson graduated from the WAS A GOOD PRIFST AND HE Holy Cross Care and University in 1932. He then Hehabilitation Center in
WILL BE MISSED.'

went to work for Bendix­South Bend. Westinghouse Corporation "He retired to the Moreau 
of Elyria, Ohio, for Qine FATHER EDMUND JOYCE Seminary and was a coun­years. seler to the seminarians 
UNIVERSITY EXECUTIVE W EMERITUS
In 1942 Wilson entered there until the day he died," the seminary at Notre Joyce said. Dame. [as vice president of business "He had been sick, but 
"He was the oldest member affairs]." recently he was getting better, of our group," recalled Joyce, Joyce remembered Wilson so his death caught us all by who turns 81 next month. "We as a good sportsman who surprise," Joyce added. "lie were both what is called, enjoyed golf and was interest­was a good priest and he will 'belated vocations.' We were ed in all the athletic programs be missed." 
~ The Princeton Review 
You've always wanted to be a doctor. You've passed organic chemistry. You've volunteered 200. hours. 
•/J;,.. 

You've worked ·.hard. 
···,... t· .. ·f 

Now you've got to take the MCAT~-l 
l~· : ... .:~if.~~~i·~~:... i::· {
Now IS not the t1me to cutcorriers. · 
Call The Princeton Review, the leaderin MCAT preparation. 
We've got the best, most extensive course and an average 
score improvement of 8 pts*. 

Our Sensational Outlook Centers 
fiTNf~~ ~CMfDULf ~PRINCi '98 
Around Your Vision
JOl'Cf CfNTfR ClA~~f~** 1 4:15-5:15 STEP Gym 1 M/W $25 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical 2 4:15-5:15 Hi Intensity Gym2 M/W $20 support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit 3 5:25-6:25 STEP Gym 1 M/W $25 cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant 4 5:25-6:25 Lo Impact Gym2 M/W $20 network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, 5 3:45-4:45 STEP Gym 1 Tffh $25 
a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team-oriented 6 3:45-4:45 Hi Intensity Gym2 Tffh $20 
professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty 7 5:30-6:30 STEP Gym 1 Tffh $25 
amazing feats. 8 5:30-6:15" Flex & Tone Gym2 Tffh $20 
As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for Computer ROCKNf ClA~~f~ 
Science and MIS individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 9 6:30-7:15 am STEP 301 MIWIF $25 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS 
10 12:15-12:45 STEP 301 M/W/F $25 

JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
11 4:15-5:15 STEP 301 M/W/F $35 Please join us at the: 12 5:25-6:25 STEP 301 MIW $25 
1998 SUMMERnNTERNSHIP JOB FAIR
13 7:45-8:30 am STEP 301 Tffh $25 
Thursday, January 22nd • 1:30pm-4:30pm 
14 12:15-12:45 Flex & Tone 301 Tffh $25 University of Notre Dame 
15 3:45-4:45 AeroStep 301 Tffh $25 16 5:30-6:30 STEP 301 Tffh $25 
Joyce Center Concourse, 2nd Fir. 
17 5:20-6:05 Hi Intensity 301 F $12 We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition 18 4:40-5:30 STEP 301 Su $12 
reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your 19 5:35-5:55 All Abs 301 Su $12 
enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, 20 6:05-6:55 Hi Intensity 301 Su $12 
full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning services, ATM, softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to:
ROLf~ (lA~~f~ 
21 12:15-12:45 Aquacise MIWIF $20 22 6:45-7:45 Aquacise Tffh $20 
NOVUS Services, Inc., Human Resources, ~NOVUS IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, ~SERVICES
Sign-ups begin Thursday, January 15, 7:30am @ RecSports located in 
Riverwoods, IL 60015, Taking charge in achanging world.
the Joyce Center. Classes begin Monday, January 19. Minimum of 12 
Fax: (8471405-1388 www.novusnet.com
registrants to begin class. Schedule is subject to change. 
Equal Opportunity Employer MIF/DN

**Joyce Center classes will move to the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center beginning February 16. 

-

------~---­
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Inspections find aircraft faults-
SEATTLE 

Emergency inspections of 68 U.S.-regis­tered Boeing 737s have turned up missing screws and one loose bolt in the tail sections of three airc:raft. the Federal Aviation Administration said today. In addition, miss· ing fasteners were also found on planes operated by an unidentified Japanese carri­er. The Wall Street Journal reported. FAA spokesman Tim Pile confirmed that four missing sen~ws in a row wero found on a 737 delivr,n)d to Contin()ntal Airlines in August. The llOListon-based operator said the discov­()ry was made late Friday and the missing screws -out of 190 on the leading edge of the horizontal stabilizer -were replac:ed immediately_ The horizontal stabilizer is the small wing at the rear of the aircraft that helps balance and steer the plane. The FAA issued an airworthiness directive ordering the inspections after a preliminary investiga­tion of the Dec. 19 crash of a SilkAir Boeing 737 revealed the plane lacked 26 fasteners on its horizontal stabilizer. The jet crashed onto the island of Sumatra during a flight from Jakarta to Singapore. killing all 104 people aboard. FAA investigators believe a bolt from an elevator hinge on the SilkAir jet also may have been missing when it c:rashed. The P)evator. on the trailing edge of the sta­biliwr. also lwlps eontrol the aircraft. 
Flu vaccine fails to protect public from new strain 
ATLANTA 

A new and unexpected l'lu strain could make the coming weeks a lot harder on the elderly and chronically ill. the government said Tuesday. Type A Sydney. which is slight­ly different from flu strains fought by this year's vaccine. is responsible for nearly half of all inl1uenza cases being looked at since llu season began in October, said Stephen Ostroff of thP Centers for Disease Control and l'rnwntion. The emergence of the new strain nwans the elderly and chronically ill ­always the most likely to become sickest from Type A viruses -face a higher risk of illness and complications. The vaccine each year is made of the three llu strains that the nation's top flu Pxpcrts think will be the most danger­ous ones travnling thn globe. This vaccine is designed to protec:t against Type A Wuhan. Typn A Bayern and Type B Beijing. The Sydnny strain is in the same family as Wuhan but has some slight changes in its DNA that make it difTnrent. Ostroff said. It was first dis­rovnrcd in Australia in Junn. "The vaccine isn't as protective as it would be if this was thn exact strain in the vaccine," Ostroff said. "But the vaccine is more protective than not having any protection." The U.S. flu vaccine is 70 percent to 90 percent etl'ective among healthy adults. 
+84.95 S&P 500: Composite 
')52.12 Volume: 
+12.91 764.135.420

7732.13 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

t"()\t!'c\N¥ II< t-Ill 'Ht(lf.\:S(.! \<jr\IN !1Hirl 
t :\HHI t.t>HI'. t:AB!t + lltl.,'i.l +2.(12:S 7.25 \llVt\Nitt:l\ I(E\-\VI I>INH\-1 +66.67 2..25 I {IMI'UII·I( lllNloiU· <"IIU +(ll ..lfl +X.-UX 1.1.125 t ~~\IMUNILt\IU·. t.t.SI·. +-lh.\5 +.III.UX 2.125 t,liUIN t:<lRP tiLRN +·U.7S +-I.J7S 2.00 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

VIIIL\Nt'tliW,INt: VTNAI' -llJJU -.1.75 2.125 VI 1~\AN'I 011/1-.C I V\NT --IS.J.I -4.25 5.125 AI'\ lhll.ll/Nt, -A Al"il -]!UN -O.R7S 1.]75 M\IH)ll IJAY DJJ_ MHOC -:12.:15 -2.75 5.75 IIMNH Jl~l) INTI. 'lltFIJF .:I!J.44 -.OH75 2.00 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 



Quebec recovers from disabling ice storm 
ASSOCIATED PRESS  
MONTREAL  
With 1 million customers facing a  
second frigid week without power,  
Quebec's electric workers pressed  
around the clock Tuesday to replace  
about 30.000 utility poles and 300  
transmission towers destroyed by last  
week's ice storm.  
On one-critical power line southeast  
of Montreal. more than 150 metal  
transmission towers were crumpled by  
the heavy ice that coated them.  
Authorities pleaded with motorists not  
to stop along the nearby highway to  
photograph the scene, which resem­ 
bled a war zone.  
Hundred of repair crews ventured  
out to reconnect lines, and Hydro­ 
Quebec warned customers throughout  
southern Quebec that it planned rotat­ 
ing blackouts of up to six hours in  
areas with power in order to ease  
pressure on its power grid.  
"We are in a crisis situation," said  
Elias Ghannoum, a Hydro-Quebec  
transmission-line specialist. "If every­ 
body were to take all the power they  
needed, we would overload the lines  
and cut off everybody."  
Although power has been restored to  
most households in Montreal and its  
immediate suburbs. more than  
400,000 homes in about 100 towns to  
the south and east are expected to  
remain without electricity for one to  
two more weeks while the transmis­ 
sion lines are repaired.  
With nighttime temperatures fore­ 
cast to fall near zero. authorities have  
been pleading with holdout families in  
the so-called  
"Blackout Triangle" to find warmer  
quarters elsewhere, either in commu­ 
nity shelters or in private homes with  
power.  
The storm and subsequent power  
outage has been blamed for 16 deaths  
in eastern Ontario and southern  
Quebec, and has been an economic  
disaster for many businesses.  
An unidentified soldier from the Canadian Royal 22nd Regiment curs a tree branchIn the "Blackout Triangle," a Yoplait which fell off a tree in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Some 20,000 trees reportedly 
yogurt plant had to throw away 40,000 fell in Montreal alone due to the excessive weight of ice left by a five-day ice-storm in 
gallons of yogurt that was being pro­southeastern Quebec.  
duced when the power went out. IBM  
closed a 2.200-employee semiconduc­ visited the "Blackout Triangle" town of  power within the province, and also is  
tor plant that packages and tests most  St-Jean-sur-Richelieu on Tuesday, said  a major exporter of electricity to the  
of the IBM chips made in North  the soldiers have the right to make  northeastern United States. But it has  
America.  arrests.  been forced to reduce exports during  
More than 12.000 soldiers have been  The army also has provided heli­ this crisis, and may import some  
deployed to help with tree-clearing  copters to Hydro-Quebec to help it  power from Vermont as a stopgap  
and relief operations in the stricken  assess the extensive damage. Quebec  measure.  
areas -the Canadian army's largest­ is one of the most electricity-depen­ The cost of repairs for Hydro-Quebec  
ever peacetime deployment. Their  dent regions in NorthAmerica; about  will run into the hundreds of millions  
duties include providing security in  80 percent of its households use ele~­ of dollars -replacing the toppled  
evacuated neighborhoods.  tric heat.  transmission towers will cost roughly  
Prime Minister Jean Chretien, who  Hydro-Quebec has a monopoly on  $75,000 each.  


Britain, Ireland accept 'plan for progress' 
AssOCIATED PREss 
BELFAST 

The American chairman of peace talks on Northern 1reland's future declared Tuesday thatall eight partic­ipating parties had accepted a British-Irish plan for progress. 
But while the two main Protestant and Catholic par­ties seemed satisfied with the joint plan for the B.ritish­ruled province, the head of the IRA-allied Sinn Fein party, Mitchel McLaughlin, said the two governments may have. "caved in" to 
Protestant de,ri)ands •... 
The Cathoiic•lf3Q. lrislt "The serio.lls negotiation Republican Army haS sought has begun,"Mitchell said. to overturn Britain's 1920 But he acknowledged that partition of Ireland. som¢ partier;; had rer;;erva­Protestant leaders iir tionsaboutpaits oftheplan. Northern Ireland oppose The joint assembly idea reunification. ,,, ••.. was last atten1pted in 1974 
Former U.S. Sen. George ·• ...,...;·and failed spectacularly Mitchell, who has shepherd-when a general strike by ed the talks since theyhegan Protestants brought anarchy in June 1996, saidtheparties to the province. would begin discussitig next The proposed Northern Monday howto creat~ a new. Ireland a5seillhly, by implica­Northern Ireland ass~mbly • Uon,acknowl~dges the north where Protestants and will remain separate from Catholics govern in coalition. the rest of Ireland for the 
That assemblyJs ~l'l "Cl!t'' , fotes(}~able fl.tture. · nerstone of the British and Sinte that eontradicts Irish many Cath cs' demands, 
at 
Cabinet ministers from the new Northern Ireland gov­ernment sit in a cross-border council with lawmakers from Dublin. 
John Hume. whose Social Democratic and Labor Party represents the most moder­ate 60 percent of Northern, Ireland's Catholic minority, will push to make the council as powerful as possible. 
But for the IRA. which began. bombings and shoot­ings in 1970 in hopes of destroying Northern Ireland's linksto Britain; any settlement that leaves the state separate from Ireland 
might prove a tough sell. 
a a .. ~ _··.: o:. • •-> • -· ···-·... · • 
-----~ 

------------. page6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
Officials-consider cost efficiency of drugs 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 
Hesearchers at a Boston 
hospital have questioned 
whether it is worth the 
expense to fight every ail­
ment AIDS can cause in a 
patitmt, or if it might bH bet­
ter to' treat only the most 
serious problems. 
Preventing lilY-related pneumonia is worth the cost, according to study by the co­director of tho HIV diagnos­tic evaluation unit at Boston Medical Center. But pre­scribing drugs to rend oil' eye and fungal infections may not be. 
"If resources are unlimited, then one may want to use all of these medications," said Kenneth Freedberg, the study's ltlad researcher. "But this study should help put into perspective what to do if rosources are limited. You can't put everyone on every plausible medication." 
Freedburg's findings appear in an article in Wednesday's Journal of the American Medical Assodation. 
The study could add fuel to a debate over how much should be spent on AIDS· related care. Activists say all possible treatments should be made available, hut some doctors question whether the cost outweighs the benefit. 
"Everybody wants to know if what we're doing really makes sense in the long run," said Dr. Catherine 

Creticos, interim medical 
director for Chicago's 
Howard Brown Health 
Center, who was not involved 
in the study. "Not that Wll're 
going to make all of our deci­
sions based on finances, but 
it's nice to have the data that 
proves it." 
The researchers compiled data from several clinical tri~ als and AIDS studies to determine the cost-effective­ness of drugs that prevent AIDS-related infections, as opposed to those that treat the virus itself. Cost-effec­tiveness weighs the benefit against the expense of the medication. 
Patients who roached a critical stage in their illness and received no preventative medications had a projected life expectancy of 39.08 months, after adjusting for quality of life, with average total lifetime health care costs of $40,288, the researchers found. 
Giving them the clinically recommended trimethoprim­sulfamethoxazole to prevent AIDS-related pneumonia and toxoplasmosis, a brain infec­tion, increased life expectan­cy to 42.56 months with a cost of $16,000 per quality­adjusted year of life saved, they found. 
But using ganclclovir to prevent cytomegalovirus, a progressive eye infection, was the least cost-effective at $314,000 per quality­adjusted year of life saved, according to the study. 

Moseley-Braun position in jeopardy 
Associated Press 

ClllCAGO 
Angry over male dominance 
on Capitol Hill, women voters 
plucked Carol Moseley-Braun 
from an obscure county office 
and made her a political star: 
the first black woman U.S. 
senator. 

Six years later, she's no longer the fresh face that beamed from magazine covers and televisions in what became known as "The Year of the Woman." Controversies ranging from a visit with an African dictator to questions about her campaign spending have put Moseley-Braun in a fight for political survival. 
"Carol Moseley-Braun is probably the most vulnerable sitting senator anywhere in the country," declares Bob Kjellander, a Republican National Committee member. 
Moseley-Braun escaped the embarrassment of a Democratic challenger in Illinois' March 17 primary. But the primary. in which Republicans Loleta Didrickson and Peter Fitzgerald are fight­ing for the nomination to run against her, could provide an early clue about her chances for a second term. 
Some Democrats openly root for Fitzgerald, a millionaire state senator, saying his con­servative views on abortion and gun control could make him easier to beat. 
"That's why I want Peter Fitzgerald to win the Republican primary," declares 
U.S. Rep. Danny Davis, D-Ill., a Moseley-Braun supporter. 
Moseley-Braun isn't the only woman senator facing a tough road back to Capitol Hill. 
In both California and Washington, women Senate candidates rode to victory on a tide of anger over the Senate confirmation hearings for Supreme Court .Justice Clarence Thomas. 
In California, Sen. Barbara Boxer, who as a suburban San Francisco congresswoman led a march on the Senate to protest the Thomas hearings, now leads three prospective Republican rivals in that state's Field Poll. But she has been unable to muster 50 per­cent support for herself in the poll. 
Poll director Mark DeCamillo says that could sig­nal danger. 
But Boxer won in 1992 over a Hepublican rival as staunch­ly conservative as she is liber­al. And Democrats say some­thing similar could happen this year depending on the outcoming of the .June 2 Hepubliean primary. 
In Washington, Sen. Patty Murray, "the mom in tennis shop," when she was elected as a virtual unknown in 1992, also faces a potentially tough fight aftnr a six-year Hepublican drubbing over issues ranging from abortion to the environment. 
But observers such as Ellen Malcolm. president of Emily's List, a Washington-based group that raises funds for Democratic women, say Murray may havo gottnn a break whnn GOP moderates passed up the race, leaving the field to U.S. Hop. Linda Smith, one of the most outspo­ken consnrvativ(~S in the House. 
"I think all three of them are going to hav(~ tough races," says Malcolm. "But I think all three are going to win." 
There are six Democratic and three Hepublican women in the Senat'e. 
C?\1[bflru:i7 mDtil~rn® 
as you 
~M®IJ ®Mlf 
on your 


21st! 
...~ : •.....:...~... . ·_:· ... 
. -.:: 



Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 7 


Prosecutors dispute need for browser Study: 'Fountain of youth' 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 

Claiming Microsoft Corp. flouted a court order, the Justice Department demonstrated before a fed­eral judge Tuesday how easily the company's Internet browser pro­
attorney Phillip Malone told U.S. District Judge Thomas Penfield Jackson. 
Jackson issued a preliminary injunction Dec. 11 forbidding Microsoft from forcing computer manu­facturers to install Microsoft's Internet Explorer program as a condition of licensing its Windows 95 
program. The Justice 

gram can be removed 
Department wants to without damaging its fine Microsoft $1 mil­Windows operating lion a day on its claim program. the company is defying
A video demonstra­Jackson's order. tion and lengthy testi­Microsoft said that to mony by computer obey Jackson's order it 
consultant and author Glenn Weadock formed the core of the government's case that Microsoft should bP held in contempt of court. Weadock showed how to remove lnternnt Explorer from Microsoft's Windows 95 program using the Windows program itself. 
"Microsoft, through its actions, defied rather than complied with that order," .Justice Department trial would have to offer computer makers either an older version of Windows without the browser pro­gram or a more modern version that wouldn't work because of the file deletions ordered by the judge. 
Instead of providing such a simple solution, Microsoft "opted for this extreme measure" of offering a version of Windows that doesn't work, Malone said. 

The CCC allocates student activity fees to clubs, advis­es clubs, and represents the interests of clubs in the Student Union and to the Administration. 
There are 3 positions open on each of these divisions: 
•Academic  •Athletic  
•Ethnic  •Social Service  
•Special Interest.  

Anyone who is interested should contact Tony Siefring at 631-4078 by Monday, January 19th. 

LATE NIGHT 
OLYMPICS 
Miss-A-Meal Sign-Ups January 14 & 15 
Sign-up in the dining halls on January 14 & 15. By signing-up, you agree not to eat dinner on Wednesday, January 21. For each meal missed, Notre Dame Food Services will make 

a donation to Special Olympics. 
Friday, January 23, 1998 • 7:00PM-4:00AM • joyce Center • 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by (J:~ 

may prolong healthy life 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Texas researchers say they 
may have found the "cellular 
fountain of youth," an enzyme 
that in laboratory experiments 
causes human cells to avoid the 
normal process of aging and 
cell death. 

The finding by researchers at 
the University of Texas 
Southwestern Medical Center 
in Dallas won't make people 
any younger or allow them to 
live forever but scientists said it 
could conceivably keep them 
healthier longer. 

"This process may increase 
the normal health span, but not 
the normal life span," said Dr. 
Jerry Shay of the University of 
Texas, the lead researcher. 
"We're not saying that this will 
give people something to make 
them live longer." 

Shay said Tuesday the work 
confirms that cells can be kept 
youthful far beyond their nor­
mal life span by blocking a nat­
ural aging and dying process. 

By keeping the cells alive and 
dividing, he said, it may be pos­
sible to control age-related dis­
orders ranging from skin wrin­
kling to some types of blindness 
to cardiovascular disease. 

Though it is still in the future, 
Shay said the work could lead 
to drugs that will stop the ceUs 
from dying and, thus, preserve 
the functioning of parts of the 
body that normally decline with 
age. 

The report is to be published in the journal Science on Friday. It was released prema­turely on Tuesday by a Washington aging research organization, causing a dra­matic rise in the stock price of Geron Corp., a California biotech research company that collaborated with the Texas researchers and which holds rights to some of the findings. 
Trading of Geron stock on the Nasdaq stock exchange was briefly halted after it soared 24 percent. After trading resumed, the stock continued to climb, closing the day at $14.375, up more than 43 percent. Nearly 4 million shares were traded. Its daily average is about 140,000. 
Anna M. McCormack, a researcher at the National Institute of Aging, said the work "has a real potential" for leading to therapies that would treat age-related disorders caused by cells that die. 
But whether this will extend life has not been shown. "We need to see if aging on a cellu­lar level has anything to do with aging of the whole organ­ism," she said. 
The researcher who first dis­

covered some 30 years ago that 
human cells age and die, Dr. 
Leonard Hayflick of the 
University of California, San 
Francisco, School of Medicine, 
said the finding "is one of the 
most profound discoveries in 
the field" of cellular aging. 
Hayflick said it will be at 

least five years before the dis­
covery can be used to treat 
patients, but it could lead to 
drugs that slow or stop the 
aging process of specific cells in 
the body. This could be impor­
tant in extending functions that 
are now lost as people get 
older, he said. 
Shay said he and his collabo­

rators proved that the normal 
death of human cells can be 
avoided by inserting a gene 
that allows the cells to main­
tain a healthy chromosome 
length. 
Normally, human cells divide 

about 70 times over a lifetime. 
Each time the cells divide, the 
protective end of the chromo­
some, called the telomere, is 
shortened. 
Eventually, the telomere 

becomes too short to protect 
the chromosome. When that 
happens, the cell can no longer 
divide and eventually dies. 
Shay said the telomere, in 
effect, acts as a biological clock 
that stops cell division and 
causes cell aging. 
In earlier research, however, Shay and others found that some cancer cells and repro­ductive cells release an enzyme called telomerase that keeps the telomere from shortening. This action is one factor that allows some cancer cells to grow without restraint. 
Shay said his team was able to transfer the gene that makes telomerase into human cells in the laboratory. 
These cells were then allowed to divide. 
"Normally, cells stop dividing after about the 70th genera­tion," said Shay. "These cells are now up over 100 popula­tion doublings and they show no evidence that they will slow down." 
Shay said that the laboratory specimens continue to divided normally and have not turned into cancer-type cells, one of the concerns about the effects that telomerase may have on cells. 
In the research, the scientists used retinal pigmented epithe­lium cells. These are at tqe eye cells involved in an age-related blinding disorder called macu­lar degeneration. 

r----------------------­
~---­

page 8 Wednesday, January 14, 1998
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
CALL NOWI 
219-2.56-0710 .EASY DOES Ill 









WANTED 
Zealous, trustworthy, generous, faith-filled, spirited, The Soul self-disciplined men with love 
TechniciaJ 
0 youmay~ for God and a pass1on for 
tty. We of\ ance, holl . Hel Wanted JOB RECRUmNG DAY 
tXtc\
ministry to be priests and
cornpens.i 
brothers in Holy Cross for life. : ::=~ ·~p
.•~ ...=
Your reSJ 
PVbl c POSHno.er •
MACXTOOL 0 Pressroo1 r's lcense233-4000 •
8, L.LC. ----------•ra Press
Your sche !01 fabrication hour on-e ~YOU LOOKING FOR • I') llote openlnvs CNClATHE : ACHAWNGE? : 1 UP PI'OIIram 
&ENGINEERING Long hours, no pay, impossible 
must haVl
~wing areas: 

PROGRAM& expectations, retirement at 75.
o ates degr·
SET UP PERSONS cation, 01' ~==-'~o~~ • en

ISembly 0 controllec For people who love to work ~~CinS1~e·~Je REXIBU PERSONNEL Co 
oM"'~I"'CC!!Ired

1Welder a ..0 I~ l:t. o and abiiito 
~ff~ ~s~~~ Sout1~
'Jl'anHr.. ~N. training s iift'i''bal'it 'fYj;lng-:ana N
tke Press at building the Kingdom of -skills. If Yll!l_lllfov II 6
experienc II OffiC8 IIIYI· Thurlda'f • [ ber 11th 1 preferred I" ~ ~~!_!n. ~ at 9om -1pm E 
1 but may tra n God. Serious applicants only.
!non. ~~lvd~§:ll; KINK~S hiring a CQI'PCI­
L.L.C. offers rate arrler. ComPetitive ..._ 
l w~W.~ Contact: : ~E~toN.: ~t~~ .~~l'ial: N=
10~nltv and a ~ r or !!:!'~.....1 .t~~m'2202'loU1ii8eftcl Ave. " 
Ironment that 

etv and team­:~ ,m l9-295~assr• ~~CW.E~~~=-Drtve ~,
JU are lnterest­JPPIV In person 

~YON OtRISTMAS SAlfS APPfv~ Oiflce. Wi:l
umeto: 

Fr. Jim King, C.S.C. or Fr. Bill Wack, C.S.C. 
~&lr w:o::y ~ 
Holy Cross Vocation Directors ~~fi~., ':\\rl; PAID TODAY PT Box 541 ;;i,\, f!!...!S n.eM~t. New positions open dailyl = 
Nlust 21. ·&..,.!.. at• endL INotre Dame, IN 46556 cats. "r¥'J • ~ ~ SELtV~~J..pRtVERS lABOR READY Mf·,Pro1 (219)631-6385 EmlcO't~~~r 436 Unmln Way West ment 
vocation.1 @nd.edu iG'im or~~ Or call: Pa~ c=~ 239-3162 = 

t. MIShaWaka. Mlan ANSWER THE CALL! ~ts ~t. EOE. . ~m Owens Fjf I1!JW P~S 
I
r ng_productlon. S 12 & 'I L 'I~ ~"J~mewi IYPass. Niles, M . ~ 
~-'n&11~r rnre:ltJ:i G~~x~b~f'\.WORK? I, P~ 
'en 11111 & c~Ufnv In PI'QYide ~u-Ross
:a~_Jt~nt,. ~~~~~~~: ton. P91YMon-Frll-1i'am PoSiti .JRg: ctfstreabt'e. lfourtv NEEDED: Sales Reps/Car· mvet 
. . I 
mi1tv at NatiO!IIII ~Cleaners, earn uP to 11111. 
Re at, Mlchla~~ct ~ per to .. start. JltP
n

HOME'&: COMMEfK:IAi . llflEill'tttACCESS -. REMODELlNGl 
g QIIGI trport. No pnone ornmtsston. all for In-~ SERVICE & CLEANING. . . up,l~l ~ll~m un-HOME IMPROY! . Cj!illll please. tervlew 288-l cal 
~n~~~~~~~w. IODY REPAIR An e~rlenced and ~ ~"L'~~mJn+eWs'tef.~· CUSTOM CQblnel
~! Van Interior r~lr Minor pendable cleanlno. team s ~ unl)mlled usea~ t ens, vanities~ 
~~ · now scheduling tor 110 I· • ment centers. 
or completettv{Vcr/alr. In-day CIJ!Cinlnv 1~011 h ec supPOrt. 33.6· 6 tlons,lnterlor& ~~~
surance.219-26:4-0602 Bend Granger hem mR~'b99.9'%fmi ~nits custom 
l.1 0

~lchflian arwcls. I'&! ~t,~ u~Uritltea ~'J;a 1 ifhe~ lnst~ll a 
COMPUTERS ~~~r11~nn, at . 5 meg web page er lser 1 
I 

THE COM~UTER TUTOR FREE FA~L Clean u~ Small Off c&'Home Office Web hOsting & secure com-~~~0: 
special sts slnc;e 1985 INTERNET ACCESS merce. Sign-up at 
219-289-2089 Journeyman
http /'MI\7418149
WORD PROCESSING, A SOUth B~Trlbune : 1'-U • • avrllable~ral DesktoP Publish nv. Serv ce or call 1--732-1266 (must 'E'ree&es~~"RUCTION 6164(5-2745. 111j1.com~r.na~&web tl~rates. om RIENCED Now ~sa~ct~rct!Kklng No .1os Too Rl 
Online CoNGREGATION 
Michlana oF HoLY CRoss has 3Month~ 
· Internet Aaess Plans 
ANSWER~ 
to mllOse from: 
THE CALL'<!>' 
CONTRACT ASSEMBLY *1° hours •$9.95 
WO~K. We s~lallzej (each additional hour-S2) TWO GU,Y,!Pobcat, dump-KOOTIAIIfl101118_ 
~~~~~~~=t!J;; ~nee:..!!!5'udlonorr.: *30 hours •$14.95 =.~ tree ,WC:k,k.t.'rash No lob too small F 
L mlscellaneou$ 1!14 meclianfca1' & PC bda s (eoch additional hour· S2) deck" retaT::t1111 ~ estimates. senior 
ling firm has lull etc. 67+6526or 256-9278. 233-4904.,..--~
.,.,co,tl,.,.,..,

1ent openfnv for assemblies built to your *UNUMITED $19 95
Jfe~Ciflc~tlo~. Contact • •
;person. Experl---------SPECIA~-wlnt
5end resumes to: ~n~t.-9f:irWJ1es Com-1~nt'r~'~~~ MOVING,TRUCKING i~l'nv. ~cH~/:tell under super­' lftons, so 11 
& TRANSPORrAnON
...----------~-*i~~~~a~lfn~~:0 setup fee sement
•e. Steady ELECI'RICAL SERVICE * 8 modem IUPPQrt BUD'S BACK I Movlnvli'OU t9nsed/ bolldwith excellent 

Is. Send retUme ~ ELECTRICAL WORK .~~ne::cape NavigatOr can at~~r~. Klle, 291·3421 ask tor !891, South Bend, 
SIDENTIAL Tile laid, g
Humnvf.~ Dept. 
M ERCIAL 


!~{;, ~)l.hr.
South B«Ki:'l'N~ IN'Bms-f'RIAL 233-~~66 n cal 111PP0rt ~m=CH:-:I~C~S:::::ERVI~CE=s--'!'21~sea~,me No "'-callaplease. ------.lt~nc~ows~~s. W,PNDE~ING.aboutthe
--···-··~..-----·-........ ·--1­


Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • NEWS 
• NORTHERN IRElAND 
Protestant and Catholic leaders accept plan for peace process 
Associated Press "The serious negotiation has prove a tough sell. 
begun," Mitchell said. But he Three IRA splinter groups are 
BELFAST, Northern Ireland acknowledged that some parties already criticizing Sinn Fein' 
The American chairman of had reservations about parts of involvement in the talks, argu­peace talks on Northern the plan. ing that violence remains neces­Ireland's future declared The joint assembly idea was sary. Tuesday that all eight partic­last attempted in 197 4 -and David Trimble, leader of the ipating parties had accepted a failed spectacularly when a gen­main pro-British party, the British-Irish plan for progress. eral strike by Protestants Ulster Unionists, has a battle on 
But while the two main brought anarchy to the his own hands to maintain party 
Protestant and Catholic parties province. unity. seemed satisfied with the joint The proposed Northern Already four of the party's 10 plan for the British-ruled Ireland assembly, by implica­members of British Parliament province, the head of the IRA­tion, acknowledges the north have criticized his participation allied Sinn Fein party, Mitchel will remain separate from the in any talks that involve Sinn McLaughlin, said the two gov­rest of Ireland for the foresee­Fein. ernments may have "caved in" able future. The two most hard-line par­to Protestant demands. Since that contradicts many ties on the Protestant side with­
The Catholic-led Irish Catholics' demands, the plan drew last September and are Hepublican Army has sought to recommends that Cabinet min­portraying Trimble as a fool overturn Britain's 1920 parti­isters from the new Northern with fading support. tion of Ireland. Protestant lead­Ireland government sit in a In Dublin, Irish Prime ers in Northern Ireland oppose cross-border council with law­Minister Bertie Ahern appealed reunification. makers from Dublin. for Protestant militants to stop 
Former U.S. Sen. George John Hume, whose Social randomly killing Catholics. Mitchell, who has shepherded Democratic and Labor Party A renegade group determined the talks since they began in represents the most moderate to wreck the peace talks, the June 1996, said the parties 60 percent of Northern Loyalist Volunteer Force, has would begin discussing next Ireland's Catholic minority, will shot dead three civilians since Monday how to create a new push to make the council as their own imprisoned comman­Northern Ireland assembly powerful as possible. der was assassinated Dec. 27 by where Protestants and Catholics But for the IRA, which began an IRA splinter gang. govern in coalition. bombings and shootings in 1970 "The fear, the tension, the 
That assembly is the corner­in hopes of destroying Northern animosity, the hatred that is stone of the British and Irish Ireland's links to Britain, any generated makes it impossible governments' recommenda­settlement that leaves the state to organize and negotiate an tions. separate from Ireland might agreement," Ahern said. 
Contact The Observer on the Internet at 

Observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 
It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life. 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summer job? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is to help clients effectively manage this change to be more successful. 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
ANDERSEN 
Andersen Consulting is an equal opportunity employer. Visit our web site at www.ac.com. 
CoNSULTING 
Andersen Consulting 
Resumes due to Career and Placement on Monday 1/19 or Tuesday 1/20 
(Full-Time and Internship positions) 
First Round Interviews Monday 2/9 and Tuesday 2/1 0 
Stop by and see us at the Summer Intern Job Fair on Thursday 1/22 
Intern qualifications: 

• 
Entering as a Senior in Fall 1998 


• 
Majors requested: Computer Science, Math with computer concentration, MIS, Engineering, and CAPP 


page 10 The Observer • NEWS Wednesday, January 14, 1998 



NTSB blames Cohen: Indonesian economy will strengt;hen 
owners for 1996 boat accident 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
It was "just plain luck" that a giant grain carrier missed crowded pleasure ships when it slammed into a New Orleans wharf. the National Transportation Safety Boardwas told Tw~sday. 
Sixty-two people w1m~ hurt in the Dee. 14. I<J9b, acci­dent wlwn the grain carrier Bright Field lost power and crashed into a riverfront shopping mall and hot1~l. No one died in the crash. 
The 735-foot ship drifted downstrnam aftm· its engine cut oil", striking the wharf in a 1,000-foot gap between the enlis!~ ship N in uw Amsterdam and the casino boat {)twen of Nnw Orleans, both crowded with people. 
"It was not maneuvered into that position, it was just plain luck," board inv!~stiga­tor Marjorie Murtagh n~port­ml. 
After considering a lengthy analysis of the accident tlw board placed the blanw on the ship's owrwr, Clnarsky Shipping Co., bas1~d in l.iberia, for failing to make sun~ tlw ship's ~~ngirw was properly maintained. 
The engine reduced power automatically after an oil pump failed, the board n~portnd. That resulted in the loss ol"tlw ability to steer. 
Tho ship had s~tiTnrod a serios of nngirw failures in tlw past. theboard said. including a similar incident in the Panama Canal and anot.lwr that left it adrift in the Indian Ocean for five days. 
The board was criti1~al of the casino ship and tlw rwar­by excursion vessel Creole Queen for having only one gangplank availabh~ for peo­ple to evacuate. 
INTERNATIONAL 
jOB SKILLS 
New professional M.A. in 
International Affairs or 
Interamerican Studies 
prepares you rapidly for 
exciting careers: 
0 environmental studies 
0 puhlic health 
0 government 
0 international 
organizations 
0 international media, 
business 
Learn valuable analytic 
skills from economics and 
the social sciences. 
Complete this intensive 
multi-disciplinary degree 
in 12 to 15 months, while 
living in a fascinating 
international city. 
Free details. 
SCHOOL OF 
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES 
C.orJI Gablc:.<.FL 33124-301/J 3US·2!!4-4173; Fax: 305·2114-4406 www.miami.edu/sis 

President Suharto wins defense secretary's support after meetings 
Associated Press 
JAKAin'A, Indonesia 
U.S. Defense Secretary William Cohen expressed confidence Wednesday after meeting with President Suharto that Indonesia will regain its economic footing and avert a potentially dangerous political upheaval in East Asia. 
"The president indicated that he is com­mitted to rebuilding confidence in the eco­nomic situation here," Cohen said at a news eonfprence on the front porch of Suharto's residence after a 40-minute meeting. 
"I am convinced that he is determined to put his country on a sound footing," Cohen said of the Indonesian president. 
Suharto, who is rarely seen in public and is reported to have serious health prob­lems, did not appear with Cohen at his news conference. But Cohen described him as b~~ing "very vigorous" and alert during their talks. 
Underlying Cohen's visit here was the potential resurfacing of regional hostilities in Indonesia if its economic ship is not righted. 
Deputy Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers met with the 76-ycar-old Suharto on Tuesday and urged quick action to restore international investor confidence in Indonesia's economy. 
Summers told reporters after that meet­ing that Suharto had indicated he intended to meet the conditions of the International Monetary Fund rescue. 
"It is clear that President Suharto recog­nizes the need to take strong steps of the kind that have been under discussion with the IMF to breed confidence and to build on the very strong foundations for pros­perity that Indonesia enjoys," Summers said before flying to Malaysia for further consultations on the crisis. 
Cohen told reporters traveling with him Tuesday on the second leg of his 12-day Asian tour that he intended to tell Suharto that the United States supports his country but wants it to comply with terms of a $40 billion bailout program. 
"We hope we can contribute to Indonesia's ability to stabilize its economy and to try to put itself back on track," Cohen said before the meeting at Suharto's residence in the Indonesian cap­ital. 
Cohen's main purpose, however, was to convey to Suharto that the United States sees Indonesia as a key to political and military stability in Southeast Asia. Implicit in that assessment is a concern that a breakdown of social and political order in Indonesia could endanger securi­ty tics throughout the region. 
Leaders in the region still have "active memories" of confrontations just a few decades ago between Indonesia and neigh­boring Malaysia and Singapore, said a US official who discussed the matter on condi­tion of anonymity. Each of the three has a substantial minority population of ethnic Chinese. 

While Cohen was focusing on Indonesia, an aide on Asia policy, Kurt Campbell, was in the Philippines this week working out details of a formal agreenHmt sdting the legal basis for possible U.S. troop visits or training in the Philippines. 
Cohen was expected to announce on Wednesday a breakthrough in talks with Manila. Subic Bay in the Philippines for decades was home to tho largest U.S. naval base outside the United States, but the last U.S. forces left the Philippin1~s in 1992. 
In Manila, a U.S. Embassy official con­firmed that agreement had been readwd but declined to provide details. 
The Philippines is the only major Asia nation that Cohen did not include in his current tour of tlH~ region, which will include stops in Thailand, Singapore, China, Japan and South Korea before Cohen returns to Washington on .Jan. 22. 
Cohen originally was scheduled to visit Indonesia last November. lmforn the East /\sian economie crisis n~ached its morn acute phase. lin put it off to deal with a confrontation with Iraq ov1~r United Nations weapon inspeetions -a problem that resurfaced just as Cohen arrived in Asia this week. 
MANY ITEMS ON SALE TO WELCOME YOU BACK: 
NOTEBOOKS, DISKETTES, CALENDARS, CLOTHING, BACKPACKS AND MORE. 
AND DON'T FORGET YOUR TEXTBOOKS! 
YOU ALWAYS SAVE BIG WITH USED BOOKS! 


THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 11 
U. of Nevada police officer 




Death toll in Algeria rises 
dies from brutal beating 
Associated Press 
There was no immediate four militants burst into his 
Associated Press 
RENO, Nev. 

A campus police officer was found beaten to death Tuesday morning by someone walking past an information kiosk at an entrance to the University of Nevada. 
Sgt. George Sullivan. 43, was the first officer killed on cam­pus since the police force was formed in 1965. 
More than 100 officers searched the Nevada campus. Instructors scheduled to return Tuesday from holiday break were told to stay home. Classes for the university's 11,600 stu­dents will resume next Tuesday. 
"Every room in every building 
is being searched," police Lt. 
Phil Galeoto said. 
Sullivan, 43, marked his 19th 
anniversary in October. There 
are 24 officers on the force. 
• In Texas, a security guard was killed and three other peo­ple were wounded when two 
. masked gunmen opened fire 
Tuesday evening at a communi­
ty college registration office. 
The shooting, an apparent 
robbery, occurred as students 
were lined up for registration at 
South Texas Community 
College in McAllen, Texas. 
A security guard died and three college employees were wounded, said College presi­
dent Shirley Reed. 
Ol e Over 75 accredited courses 
en 
-e French Immersion Program e Fine Arts Program 
e Advanced Photography and Web Design Programs e Cultural Excursions . 
For more information, call or write: 
The American University of Paris Summer Programs, Box S-2000 102 rue St. Dominique 75007 Paris, France 
Tel. (33/l) 40 62 06 14 Fax (33/1) 40 62 07 17 New York office: Tel. (212) 983-1414 
Web site -http://www.aup.fr ~ 
\
E-mail -Summer@aup.fr ~ 
• 

ALGIERS, Algeria 
Two weekend massacres left at least 400 people dead -a figure almost four times the official toll -Algerian newspa­pers reported Tuesday, as sur­vivors recounted the terror of the assaults from their hospital beds. 
Despite a government denial of the higher death toll -the military-backed regime stands by its figure of 103 killed-the reports fueled a growing sense around the capital that a 6­year-old Muslim insurgency has spawned an anarchic state where anybody could be target­ed and at any time. 
"Every day the terrible obser­vation hits us that authorities have reached the limits of their incompetence in managing the security situation," Abrous Outoudert, director of the newspaper Liberte, said in an editorial. 
Meanwhile, residents of an exclusive Algiers neighborhood said Muslim militants tried to set up a fake police checkpoint before troops drove them off, killing two of them. 
El Watan and Liberte, both independent newspapers, esti­mated at least 400 people were killed in the massacres at a mosque and movie theater in two Algiers suburbs Sunday night, the sixth anniversary of a Muslim insurgency that has killed at least 75,000 people. 
• 

claim of responsibility for the attacks, but suspicion fell on Islamic insurgents trying to bring down thH military-backed government. Survivors and hospital sources said Monday that 120 people had died in the attacks; in their reports 
'EVERY DAY THE TERRI­
BLE OBSERVATION HITS 
US THAT THE AUTHORITIES 
HAVE REACHED THE LIMITS 
OF THEIR INCOMPETENCE IN 
MANAGING THE SECURITY 
SITUATION.' 

ABROUS 0UTOUDERT 
DIRECTOR OF THE LIBERT£, AN 
ALGERIAN NEWSPAPER 
Tuesday, the two papers did not say how they had arrived at their figure. 
But witness and newspaper accounts illustrated the butch­ery employed by the attackers, who threw homemade bombs into a movie theater in Sidi Ahmed and a mosque in nearby Haouche Sahraoui, then shot and knifed those fleeing. 
The newspaper La Tribune said the assailants shot the legs of the victims to slow them down so attackers could slit their throats. 
Speaking from his hospital bed, 11-year-old Amine said 
• 

house, hunted his uncle down and then took a knife to him. 
"They caught him and slashed him," he said. "He fell next to me and trembled like a sheep. His blood touched me, but I didn't move," said Amine, who sustained head and arm wounds in the bludgeoning. 
A 7 -year-old child in a nearby hospital bed, his face disfigured from the explosion at the the­ater, said he had been watch­ing the movie, a war film, when the militants began their assault. 
"I thought it was the film," said the child, who wouldn't give his name. "But I realized it was an attack because I was thrown against the wall" by the blast. 
Algerian newspapers also reported that 20 young girls had been tied up with rope and kidnapped. The insurgents often use female captives for sex slaves and then later kill them. 
The militants also looted the village, taking flour, grain, blankets and medicine, El Watan and Liberte reported. At least 1,700 people have been slain in mountain hamlets of western Algeria since the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan Dec. 30, Algerians newspapers reported. The insurgency, aimed at toppling the government, typically becomes even more gory and intense during Ramadan. 
H • ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING • MECHANICAL ENGINEERING• BUSINESS ANALYSI 
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the level of technology you'll experience ot Raytheon. 
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon Tl Systems and Hughes Aircraft. The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. Make their mark. 
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible level. You'll take it to the Nth. We'll be visiting your campus soon. Contact your career placement office now to schedule an interview, or check out our website at www.rayjobs.com. If you are unable to meet with us, please send your resume to: Raytheon Staffing, P.O. Box 655 474, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75265. We have many exciting opportunities available and we would like to talk to you. 

page 12 . The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 14, 1998 

r-------------------------------------, 

Domino's 


Pizza _5.99 
Edison & SR 23 Edison Plaza Large w/ 
271-0300 
1 Topping 271-0300 LOOK All Day/All Night 
11 AM -2AM Sun-Thurs 
Edison Plaza Location Only11 AM-4AM Fri & Sat 
Valid ND/SMC/Holy Cross ID Required 
Deep Dish $1 Extra Free GarIic Butter w/ Spring '98 Each Pizza 
L-------------------------------------~ 

r------------------------, r------------------------, r------------------------, 
. I . 
-·;:·,,. • ··-·.---_ ftl: ·,: "' JIJ< 
$15.99




$5.99 $5.99 
Pizza Sub & 3 Large Medium w/ 1 Toppers!! 
Garlic Bread 1 Topping & 1 Coke 
Sticks 

271-0300 
271-0300271-0300 
Edison Plaza Location 
Edison Plaza Location
Valid SMC/ND/Holy Cross ID 
Valid SMC/ND/Holy Cross ID
Valid at Edison Plaza 

Required 
Required
Location Spring '98 

Spring '98 
Spring '98 

L------------------------~ L------------------------~ L------------------------~ 
EXTRAS •••• 
Cheesey Bread: $2.99 Buffalo Wings: 10-$3.99 
Garlic Bread Sticks w/PizzaSauce: $1.99 20-$7.98 
Coke, Diet Coke, & Sprite: Cans $.60 30-$10.99 2 Liters: $1.99 HOT or BBQ 


VIEWPOINT 
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Norre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Managing Editor Business Manager Jamie Heisler Tom Roland Assistant Managing Editor 

Dan Cichalski News Editor .................Heather Cocks Advertising Manager.............................. Jed Peters Viewpoint Editor.. . ............ Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager...... .. .......... Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor... . ....................... Mike Day Production Manager.........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor... . ................. Joey Crawford Systems Manager.. ......... Michael Brouillet Saint Mary's Editor... . ..... Lori Allen Controller... .................. Kyle Carlin Photo Editor . . .................. Kaue Kroener 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Ir does not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither inslirurion. The news is reponed as accurately and objecdvely as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chid: Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editor, News Editor. Viewpoinr Editor. Spons Editor, Accent Editor, Sainr Mary's Editor, Photo Ediror, and Associate News Editor. Commentaries, \etters and Inside Columns present rhe views of rhe awhors, and not neces­sarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through leners is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Manotging Editor  63 I -454 I  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
Sports  63 I -4543  Ollice Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  631-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  6.'11-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoint.1@nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  

• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 

Grad Students Gambling with Health Care 
I come from a gambling family. No, we aren't in the mafia. and don't have ties with casinos, but we're a bunch of gamblers nonetheless. 
When I was young. my siblings and I built a craps table which we had zeal­ously played each year at a festival. My father unsuspectingly taught us how to play poker, which we played for end­less hours with every spare penny in the house. We've all been to Las Vegas, and my brother even stroked our inter­est in "gambling" on the stock market. 
But now he goes to Gambler's Anonymous. While I'm not a big gam­bler of money. I do find myself taking calculated risks in life, sometimes just for the fun of it. But my father always insisted that we NEVER gamble in one area: with our lives and health care. 
Unwittingly, I made such a gamble when I signed up for Notre Dame's health insurance policy because it does not have a major medical option. It's a really great policy and quite inexpen­sive. unless you fall into one of two dreaded categories: you get married (or God forbid have children), or you get sick. 
Then you're basically screwed. 
To the administration's credit, the working conditions of the graduate program is rather commendable. Thanks to the football team and gener­ous donors. grad students are sitting pretty compared to other institutions. Harely do you hear of people hiding books in the library as part of the incessant competition for funding, like some places. We should appreciate these realities. But precisely these advantages make one aspect of the graduate program stick out like a sore thumb: our health care plan. 
Why does an otherwise great pro­gram allow such a drastic disparity to exist? 
They tell us that most grad students do not want a major medical option. But I for one do not want to gamble with my health care or my financial future. I want to suggest why other grad students may not either. 
For one, if you are married or have children. the cost of the ND health insurance is rather astronomical, usu­ally around $3,000-$4,000 per year. Since the average stipend is $10,000, you will spend about 35 percent of your annual income on insurance alone. These estimates do not include the cost of the second category, those who actually USE their. health insur­ance. 
Currently, you can visit a physician at the health center for minor illnesses or injuries, and a majority of your costs will be covered. But if you devel­op a serious illness. have a major acci­dent, or just visit the emergency room, you will confront a dizzying array of "hidden" limits. 
For example, once I tore a ligament in my knee while playing intramural flag football. I needed both arthroscop­ic and reconstructive surgery. My blind faith in the fact that I had insurance led to an abrupt slap in the face when I received bills from the hospital for over $7,500, more than half the cost of the operations. 
Before coming to graduate school, I worked for one year in a community service job at a Catholic children's home. I developed a chronic illness from the children which I still have nine years later. As a young, healthy, even athletic person, I never anticipat­ed the possibilities of either getting sick or having a major accident. Now I face exorbitant medical costs on a monthly basis. The most ironic thing is that I thought I was insured. 
Hopefully other grad students will never face these unexpected types of health problems. In fact, the chances are in your favor that you will not need a major medical component to your insurance while in graduate school. But my point is that you never know. Purchasing insurance without a major medical option is making a gamble that 
page 13 


you won't get sick or have a major accident during your six (or so) years here. 
I do not wish to take this gamble any longer. But at present, I have no choice. So each day I live with the anx­iety that I could fall prey to another medical problem which will wipe me out financially before I ever even begin a career. I've already had two disas­ters, and you can only take out so many loans. Repaying them is another issue altogether. 
If you do not want to make such a gamble yourself, please let the GSU know about your interest in purchas­ing a major medical option. The administration currently has an option on the table where single grad stu­dents could purchase the option for an additional $10 per month. Of course it's double for spouses. But administra­tors do not believe grad students want it. In order to get this major medical option, the GSU has to convince them thaL students are interested. 
If you are, please e-mail the GSU as soon as possible. Send a quick note to qlc@gsu.nd.edu or call 631-6963. 
Kristine Boeke Graduate Student History Department December 8, 1997 
GARRY TRUDEAU

• DooNESBURY 

• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"Hope is the thing with feathers that perches in the soul." 
-Emily Dickinson 

...----------­
VIEWPOINT 
page 14 Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
• Goo 'N liFE 



Pass on 
Slogans For 



the Masses 
Slogans. 
One thing advertisers count on for busi­ness is that the viewers/listeners (depending on choice of media} will remember their slo­gan because it appeals to their need. Over the past three decades, many major compa­nies -especially fast food ehains -have changed their slogan more than once, to keep in step with the times. 
Even religion has been touehed by this mentality. The late (great) George Burns, in the second of the "Oh, God!" movies trilogy, inspired a little girl to start a campaign based on the slogan, "Think God." There's nothing wrong with that, some might say. Yet, is it appropriate to "mass market" God? 
Julie Ferraro 
It could be said that priests. rabbis and ministers "mass market" God from the pul­pit. Some, undoubtedly, maintain a certain "theme" in a series of sermons. sueh as "God is love" or "Carry the cross." Is it not just so many words, though, like the slogans for J.C. Penney or Meijer'? Do slogans­God-oriented or otherwise-have any con­crete eiTect on our day-to-day life? 
Not when you come right down to it. 
lneorporating slogans into our routines means we are conforming to others' expec­tations of us. But we are individuals! No two people-even identical twins-can say their lives arc 100 percent alike. In this same way, God speaks to caeh one of us in a unique way. as evidenced by the vastly dif­ferent interpretations of Scripture. Trying to corral everyone, induding all those who practi!:e the same formal religion, under one slogan or snt of rules is absolutely impossi­ble. Tlwre will always by someone wanting to amend or clarify a point, for whatever reason, or eliminate it altogether. 
But this diversity is good! It helps us appreeiate how all-encompassing God is, how broad the spectrum of divine creation. Instead of limiting our outlook to those issues with which we feel "comfortable," our friendships to those who feed our ego or hold similar views, we have a great opportu­nity to expand our horizons, learn about life. people and the world. 
This oxploration of other lifestyles gives us cause to re-evaluate and rellne our own personal beliefs. While some things are unquestionably "right" and "wrong," on a majority of subjects there is room for dis­cussion, if not debate. Such discussion and debate help us understand what makes the world the place it is, and enlightens us on what we can do to improve the situation. Open dialogue also eliminates a lot of per­sonal prejudice-the well-recorded raeism and homophobia, for instance, that touch even our campus-because we no longer have to fear the unknown. 
Throughout history, slogans have been used to convince people to think a certain way, even promoting wars. Cries of "God is on our side" has led to the ethnic cleansing in Bosnia, the ongoing conflict in Northern Ireland, and the Jewish-Palestinian tension in Israel, among other places. In a way, accepting that a Burger King sandwich makes a better meal than a McDonald's burger because of advertising slogans con­tributes to this "mass marketing" of ideas. Perhaps not a serious offense, but worthy of a bit of thought. 
As individuals, we deserve better. 
Julie Ferraro is a local administrative assistant. 1/er column appears every other Wednesday. 
The (Jiews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obsever. 
• WRONG S_mE UP 


Post-Christmas Blues Source of Family Tension 

"The closest thing to heaven on this planet anywhere is a quiet Christmas morning in the Colorado air." 
If the Nitty Gritty Dirt Band had added another verse to this classic Christmas carol, it would have gone something like "the closest thing to hell in this God-for­Year's Eve. In a sobriety induced rage, he went storming through the kitchen, opening cabinets and yelling "Where the x#@* is 'Grandma's Tummy Mint'?!'" He grabbed me by the arm and looked at me hard like a drunk man who had just watched his last drop of cheap whiskey 
saken land is the 

=========;:::=;:::;;:::;;=:;:;;;::;:;= dumped down the
interminable = 
drain, "Did you drink weeks after it? Did you drink all of Christmas spent the 'Tummy Mint?"' only with the fami­Never before had I seen
Margaretly." It is a well­a man go so crazy for known fact that chamomile and pepper­once Christmas is mint-no matter how
Shaheen over, so is the joy­skillfully blended. ful brotherhood My father held out the that binds the fam­
-----========----longest but he fell the 
ily together. Once the presents have been opened, the roast eaten and the liquor supply exhausted, the family structure slowly breaks down until each member has, in his or her own way, gone completely bonkers. 
My mother was the first to go. It was clear early on that she wouldn't last long. For three days, she had been fol­lowing my father around the house as he "cleaned the closets." This meant that he toted a trash bag from closet to closet rummaging through other people's things and throwing out everyone's stuff but his own. My mother stood behind him with her own trash bag, retrieving valuables and swearing under her breath. After we had unintentionally insulted her cooking, cleaning and gift­buying abilities, my mother thanked us for the new luggage we gave her for Christmas and informed us that she was moving to Chicago where she could llnd some peace. 
My brother's demise was slow. He let it build up inside until finally, he exploded uncontrollably. I thought it would be the sound of my John Denver 72-song, boxed set that would make my 22-year-old brother crack. I can't say it helped, but what really sent my brother plummeting over the edge of sanity was the discovery that we were out of "Grandma's Tummy Mint Tea." 
Perhaps he wouldn't have been so angry if he wasn't in the process of dry­ing out after a particularly raucous New 
farthest (which is inter­esting because the poor guy is hardly more than five-foot-seven}. As we approached the last week of vacation and Martha Stewart told my dad to stop cleaning, he began to fall apart. With no more closet space to occupy his time, he turned his attention to llguring out ways to keep my brother and me at home for­ever. 
First he put on his sad puppy dog face, grabbed my hand and said, "Margaret, you can stay home for a little while longer, can't you?" It's so hard to say "no" to a short, balding fellow with a puppy dog face -especially when he is your father-but with a week left in vacation, I knew it was too early to give in to his demands. He tried various other tactics, including pleading but his most effective tactic is bribery. He's out buying my brother a new pair of ski boots right now. 
So, it seems that I am the only family member still standing. "Ha!" My brother said, putting down his cup of "Tummy Mint." "Aren't you the one who's been in the basement listening to John Denver and 'Disco Sweating' with Richard Simmons every day?" 
Margaret Shaheen is a sophomore Arts and Letters major. Her column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• lEITER TO THE EDITOR 

Why Protest the Death Penalty and Not Abortion? 
Within certain branches of 
Protestantism, there is still a 
controversy about whether it 
is possible for a Christian to 
commit a sin so great as to 

override the sacrillce of Christ 
and cause the loss of the sin­
ner's soul. Similarly, there is 
room for debate among 
human rights activists over 

whether a human can commit 
a crime so awful that it 

negates that person's inalien­
able righ l to life. 

If there is such a crime, one good candidate for this dis­honor would be robbing a cab driver, shooting him and leav­ing him. naked and bleeding, to die in a snowdrift in sub­zero weather. That's the offense of the prisoner who was executed by the state of Indiana last semester. There were demonstrations, both on campus and in Michigan City, of NO and SMC students taking a stand for their belief that the right to life cannot be forfeit­ed. 
I wonder how deep the com­mitment of those demonstra­tors is. It's not all that hard to take a one time stand. Would there be so many demonstra­tors against executions if exe­cutions were common in Indiana? 
Certainly it's been difficult to llnd people to stand in prayer and bear witness against the week-in, week-out killing of innocent children here in South Bend. 
Most of those who show up are over 50. Older peopl!1 are less subject to fads than thr. young; they act on principle rather than pner pressure. 

Pr.rhaps you wr.re present at an anti-execution demon­stration-and you resent the implication that you were there because of a fad or peer pressure and not a real dedi­cation to human rights. Prove me wrong. 
Dozens of children are tor­tured to death each week at an institution within walking distance of the Golden Dome. There should be more stu­dents from the ND-SMC com­munity standing vigil against this denial of human rights. 

If you're willing to be one, contact one of the ofllcers list­ed at http://www.nd.edu/-pro­life/of'fieers.html to get sched­uled. If they can't help you, call the ofllce of Right to Life of Saint Joseph County at 232­LIFE. 
Phil Mclane Sourh Bend January II, 1998 
ted in working for Viewpoint? 
Please call 631-5303 and ask for Kelly. 

Football 
1998 
Thoroughly


Louisiana State Notre Dame Whipped 

27-9 
The ObseNeriBrandon Candura 
In the final game of his Notre Dame career, Ron Powlus struggled against the LSU defense, completing just 8 out of 18 pass attempts for 66 yards . 
• IRISH INSIGHT 



Final game for seniors overshadowed by loss 
SHREVEPORT, La. 

AJ
though the 
27-9 loss to 

.SU in the Independence Bowl might not indicate it, the seniors walked away from their final game as members of the 


Notre Dame football Betsy Baker team with their Associate Sports heads held high. At Editor least they should have. 
The departing seniors provided some of the only specks of light in the dark and dreary game that took place for the Irish on Dec. 28. 
Fifth-year senior co-captain Melvin Dansby had a game-high 14 total tack­les and was one of the major reasons the Tigers were limited to only a field goal in the first half. Senior co-captain Allen Rossum saved a 78-yard run by second-string tailback Randell Mealey from being a touchdowJ1. Even though LSU scored on the next play, Rossum came from the other side of the field to catch up with the streaking Mealey, making one of the best Irish defensive plays of the night. 

Senior Scott Cengia, who has battled throughout the last four years to finally secure the starting spot for the last half of the season, claimed the only points for the Irish on the night -three field goals of 33, 21, and 33 yards, respec­
see INSIGHT/ page 3 
After a solid first half, the Irish defense was worn down in the second half by the vaunted LSU rushing attack. 
see page 3 
to 
e 

Rematch with Tigers too much for Ron Pow/us and the Irish offense 
By BRIAN REINTHALER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
SHREVEPORT, La. 

Defeating a top-25 team is a mark of achievement on any college football team's schedule. Defeating that team a second time in the same season is a mark of a championship contender. And defeating that team in two contests on its home turf in a single season borders on legendary. 
The latter are two things that the 1997-98 Fighting Irish were not. 
In what amounted to Notre Dame's second road game against LSU in just over six weeks, Randell Mealey rushed for 222 yards and scored twice as the Tigers avenged an 18-point loss to the Irish with a 27-9 win of their own in the Independence Bowl. 
The Irish maintained control of the game throughout much of the first half and, despite failing to score a touch­down in two trips into the Tiger red zone, Notre Dame took a 6-3 led to the locker room on the strength of two field goals by senior Scott Cengia. 
Cengia connected a third time in the second half following yet another failed attempt to convert a trip to the red zone into six points. However, despite his personal success in his final game as a member of the Fighting Irish, he was not satisfied with the results. 
''I'd rather go 0-for-3 and get the win than 3-for-3 and lose," commented Cengia. 
Aside from the senior kicker, Notre Dame's lone offensive stand-out was tailback Autry Denson. The junior aver­aged over five yards per carry for a total of 101 in addition to catching three passes for 32 more yards. 
Following the defeat, the Irish cited a lack of execution on their part to explain LSU's dominance of the second half. 
"We played a good team," explained Denson, "and we just didn't execute." 
Fifth-year senior Melvin Dansby also had no problem telling it like it was as he walked off the field. 
"They just out-played us today," stat­ed Dansby. "They had the big plays. We didn'.t." 
In addition to the futility of the red zone offense, Notre Dame's tendency to disappear in the third quarters of games became apparent once again, 
see REMATCH/ page 2 


Kicker Scott Cengia's 3-for-3 field-goal performance was one of the highlights for the Irish. 
..--~~----------------------------------------­
page 2 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
Same old story 


Offense flops in third quarter 
By BRAD PRENDERGAST  ball for only 4:12 in the period,  running baek Hondell Mealoy to  
Editor-in-( :hief  ran only two rushing plays in the  the Notre Dame 2-yard line.  
period and amassed only 14  Down by two possessions, the  
SIIHEVEI'OHT, La.  yards of total offense.  Irish were forced to pass, which  
The disPaSIHI third quarter  In the second half, the Irish  was  not  effective  either.  
that  had  inf1~cted  the  Irish  netted only 26 yards rushing.  Quarterback Hon Powlus was 8­ 
otlimse for most of the 1997 soa­ More importantly, the Tigers'  of-18 for 66 yards, and Jarious  
son dealt another blow to the  defense kept the Irish backfield  Jackson added 49 more yards  
lwalth of tlw Irish's chances li1r  out of the end zone all game.  when the game's outcome was  
victory at tho lndnpendonee  The Irish were forced to ab<m­ no longer in doubt.  
Bowl.  don the run in part because LSU  The Irish's offensive  woes  
Wlwn tlw second half began at  was very effective in establishing  were in stark contrast to the first  
lndependeneP Stadium, tho Irish  it.  The  LSU  rushing  attack  game between tlw two teams, in  
held a 6-3 advantage over tlw  ehurncd up the dock in the third  which the Irish outran the Tigers  
Louisiana Stall' Tignrs on the  quarter, and when the period  by 139 yards.  
strength of I02 yards rushing in  ended, the Tigers led by a touch­ "I felt like we could run the  
the first two quartnrs.  down.  ball at any time," Notre Dame  
But the rushing yards dwin­ And after two minutes into the  coach Bob Davie said of the first  
dled to a  trickle in the third  fourth quarter, LSU led 20-9  half at the Independence Bowl,  
quarter. The Irish, who had tho  thanks to a 78-yard sprint by  "but when we fell behind, that  
kind of changed things for us. I  
don't think that they shut down  
our run, but it's hard for us to  
run when we can't stop their  
run."  
The  Irish  running  game  
clicked in several instances in  
the first half. Notrn Dame's first The Observer/Brandon Candura  
field goal was a result of a 9­play, 70-yard drive keyed by a run up the middle by Autry  Senior offensive lineman Mike Doughty and the rest of the offensive line did not put forth one of their better performances, allowing Irish quarterbacks to be sacked seven times.  
Denson. Denson's 35-yard gallop  change in defensive coordinators  we  wnre  going  to  pass."  
brought the ball to the LSU 13­ after the regular season. Tiger  Hosenthal said. "They ran a Jot  
yard line and set up a 33-yard  head  coach  Gerry  DiNardo  of stunts, and pass blocking is  
field goal by Scott Cengia.  brought in Lou Tepper after his  dillicult when they're coming at  
Earlier in the drive, Denson  successor, Carl Heese, departed  you and they know what you'ro  
and fullback Ken Barry both had  f(Jr the University of Texas.  going to do."  
12-yard runs.  Tepper alternd Heese's nickel­ The game marked the ninth  
"In the first game, we ran the  back package by bringing in live  time this season that thn Irish  
ball the way we wanted." said  down linemen, which proved  were shut out in the third quar­ 
offensive guard Mike Hosenthal.  efl'ective in controlling the line of  tor. In 13 games during the sea­ 
"Today we ran the ball in spurts.  scrimmage. And when it became  son.  thn Irish seored only 27  
You can't win the game playing  obvious that the Irish were going  points in the third quartnr.  
in spurts. You have to play a GO­ to pass late in the game, the  "It's been the same probll~ms  
minute game, and that's what  Tigers were able to make the  all year," Davie said. "That's  
The Observer/Brandon Candura  LSU did."  necessary adjustments. Powlus  what's frustrating. We've got to  
Tailback Autry Denson was one of the only members of the Irish offense who enjoyed any degree of success, rushing for 101 yards.  LSU's defensive success against the Irish in the rematch  and Jackson were sacked a total of seven times for 62 yards lost.  get these things solved." The Irish have until next fall to  
may  have  resulted  from  a  "Toward the end, they knew  work on them.  

ReiDatch 
continued from page 1 

and gave the Tigers the boost of conlidenee that they used to take command down the stretch. 
"They eanw out in the sneond half and Rondell Mealey ran the football at us extremely well," said Davie. "They controlled the football. and we only had the ball (nine] plays in the third quarter." 
Aftor gaining only 37 yards in the Iirst 30 minutes of play, Mealny began to exploit the defensive front of the Irish. Following an unlikely 42-yard Iield goal by Wade Hichey, which tind the game about six minutes into the third quarter, Allen Hossum slipped as IHl began to advance the ensuing kiekoff, and Notre Dame was foreod to start at its own six-yard line. 
The Irish went three and out. which gave the Tigers terrific field position for the go-ahead drive. Quarterback Herb Tyler led a seoring drive of eight plays and 49 yards and capped it off with a 12-yard touchdown strike to true freshman Abram Booty. Booty, a native of Shreveport, was the only player to catch a pass for Tigers. He hauled in five balls for a total of 61 yards. 
Following Cengia's third field goal which brought Notre Dame within four points in the fourth quarter, Mealey took over the game. The sophomore picked up 120 yards in the fourth quar­ter. including an 78-yard run from scrimmage that seemed to puncture the Irish sails once and for all. 

• REPORT CARD 
Quarterbacks: C+ 
Powlus' numbers left much to be desired, but the coaches' fascination with giving Jackson playing time in crucial situations pre­vented Powlus from developing any kind of rhythm, momentum, and more importantly, confidence. Jackson threw the ball well in the waning moments of the contest, but his mishap also resulted in an LSU field goal. 
Running Backs: A-
The only notable oiTensive performancewas turned in by Autry Denson, who appeared to be one of just a few players who actually showed some heart from the opening kickoff until the final whistle. It is a mystery why he was not given the ball at any point when the Irish found themselves inside the Tiger 5-yard line. 
Receivers: B· 
Getherall turned in a solid performance without doing anything spectacular. Johnson's handful of catches were counter-balanced by a few plays where his effort appeared to be lacking. Dropped balls prevented the Irish from establishing themselves through the air. 
Offensive Line: D+ 
The men in the trenches were able to spring Denson for another 100-yard effort, but the tailback's skill appeared to be the dominant factor. The line could not open a single hole for its backs inside the red zone but was porous enough to allow seven sacks by LSU. 
Defensive Line: C­
"The Beast" was the probably the orlly thing that prevented· the Tiger rushing attack from gaining over 400 yards. Dansby played one of his typical outstanding games, adding 14 tack~ les to his total as his fantastic final season at Notre Dame came to an end. lt is safe to say that the rest of the line was not up to the task in the second half. 
Linebackers: C 
The corps of mostly juniors could have hoped for a better prelude to their senior campaign. Despite recording a few sacks, they were unable to do sufficient damage control when Mealey carne busting through the Irish defensive line. 
Defensive Backs: B-
The secondary is not to blame for LSU's sec­ond·half offensive surge. Although the DBs were beaten badly by Abram Booty on a pair of key plays, it was probably the success of the Tigers' ground game that forced them to play the run too exclusively. 
Special Teams: B 
Rossum's slip on a second-half kickoff return was critical but could have happened to anyone with the field in the condition that it was. There were no glaring errors to speak of, and Scott Cengia answered the call to join Denson and Dansby as the Irish players of the game. 
Coaches: D 
It may be considered a surprise that Notre Dame controlled the first half, and it is to the coaching staff's credit that the players came out solid despite the awkward rematch situa­tion. However, there is simply no excuse for the offensive play-calling and the decisions to remove Powlus from the game in favor of a cold Jackson at two key points in the ganw. Veteran players must be given a chance to make things happen in a bowl game. They were not given that chance, and it showed. 
Overall: 2.26 
Cengia, Dansby, and Rossum showed that wearing the blue and gold for the last time was not something they took for granted, and they attempted to lead by example. Circumstances prevented most of the other players from heeding the call, however, and the Irish were OVElrwhelmed by tlw Tigers down the stretch. 
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Mealey fills in for Faulk, emerges as unlikely hero 
By MIKE DAY 
Sports Editor 
SHREVEPORT, La. 

Chris McCoy, Amos Zereoue, Charles Tharp, Sedrick Irvin. Add Hondell Mealey to that not-so-exclusive list of opposing players who have torched the Irish defense over the course of the year. 
Although a poor showing against the run is nothing new to Irish fans, Mnaloy may have been the most unlikely candidate to have his way against the hot-and-enid Notre Dame defense. 
Entering the game, Bob Davie's troops realized that thny had to con­tain the vaunted LSU running attack to have any chance of upsetting the Tigers for the second time in six weeks. However, it was assumed that stopping LSU meant stopping star tail­back Kevin Faulk. 
Little did they know that the Tigers had a wildcard hidden in their back pocket. 
Faulk was forced to leave the game after spraining his left ankle when Notre Dame defensive end Melvin Dansby rolled over it in the first quar­ter. With one of the nation's top play­ers" on the sidelines, Mealey more than picked up the slack for the Tigers. 
"He definitely gives you a different look from Faulk," said Dansby, who recorded a game-high 14 tackles. "Faulk is more of an outside runner. Mealey is more of a slasher. He's a competitor. That's the biggest differ­ence." 
, Mealey, who entered the season as 
LSU's third-string tailback, shocked 
the capacity crowd of 50,459, rushing 

In the final game of his career, senior defensive end Melvin Dansby capped a brilliant season by recording a game-high 14 tackles. 

• STAT!STICAU.Y SPEAKING 
Scoring Ist 2nd 3rd 4th Total Notre Dame 3 3 0 3 9 LSU (No. 15) 0 3 10 14 27 
TEAM RECORD POINTS PEV 
Team Statistics NO LSU 
First Downs 19 19 Rushes-Yards 41-128 52-265 
1. Michigan (511/2) 12-0 1,731 1/2 1 
2. Nebraska (181/2) 13-0 1,6981/2 2 
Passing Yards 115 61 Sacked-Yards Lost 7-70 3-18
3. Florida State 11-1 1,599 4 
Return Yards 84 72 
Passes 13-25-0 5-12-0 
Punts 5-45.0 4-35.8 
4. Florida 10-2 1,455 6 
5. UCLA 10-2 1,413 5 
Fumbles-Lost 1-1 0-0 Penalties-Yards 5-30 5-55
6. North Carolina 11-1 1,397 7 
Time of Possession 29:56 30:04 
7. Tennessee 11-2 1,320 3 
Individual Statistics 

8. Kansas St. 11-1 1,302 10 
Rushing NO-Denson 20-10 I, Barry 8-43, Driver 1-1, Jackson 4-minus 2, 
9. Washington St. 10-2 1,259 8 
Stokes !-minus 2, Powlus 7-minus 13.
10. Georgia 10-2 1'121 12 
LSU-Mealey 34-222, Banks 6-23, H. Tyler 9-13, Faulk 3-7. 
11. Auburn 10-3 1,025 13 
Passing NO-Powlus 8-18-0-66, Jackson 5-7-0-49. 
12. Ohio State 10-3 975 9 
LSU-H. Tyler 5-12-0-61. 
13. LSU 9-3 856 15 
Receiving

14. Arizona St. 9-3 773 16 
NO-M. Johnson 5-49, Denson 3-32, Getherall 3-23, Brown 1-10, 
Barry 1-1. 
LSU-Booty 5-61. 

15. Purdue 9-3 715 17 
16. Penn St. 9-3 706 11 
Attendance: 50,459 

17. Colorado St. 11-2 673 18 
18. Washington 8-4 617 21 
• SCORING SUMMARY 
19. Southern Miss. 9-3 490 22 
1st Quarter NO-Cengia 33 yard FG
20. Texas A&M 9-4 421 20 21 . Syracuse 9-4 331 14 
2nd Quarter LSU-Richey 37 yard FG 
21. Mississippi 8-4 255 
NO-Cengia 21 yard FG
23. Missouri 7-5 175' 19 
3rd Quarter 

24. Oklahoma St. 8-4 72 24 
LSU-Richey 42 yard FG
25. Georgia Tech 7-5 64 
LSU-Booty 12 yard pass from Tyler (Richey kick) 
OTHERS RECEIVING VOTES: Arizona 59, Oregon 50, Air Force 37, Marshall33, Virginia 31, Clemson 27, Louisiana Tech 20, Mississippi St.15, Michigan St.12, 
4th Quarter 

LSU-Mealey 2 yard run (Richey kick) LSU-Mealey l yard run (Richey kick) 
Wisconsin 8, New Mexico 6, Cincinnati 5, Notre Dame 3, Iowa, Virginia Tech 1 
TJR 

for a career-high 222 yards on 34 carries. · 
"My number was called on in this game, and I responded. That's all I do. Whenever I get a chance to play, I've got to do the best that I can," said Mealey. 
"Everybody has to know their role on this team, and I know my role. If somebody goes down, you have to respond." 
Six weeks ago, the Irish defense was able to contain the LSU running game just enough to force them to the air. In the process, Notre Dame exposed Herb Tyler and his erratic throwing arm, 
..
intercepting three passes in the second half alone. 
The team's inability to stop Mealey allowed LSU to keep Tyler's arm out of harm's way. In rolling up 265 yards on 52 car­ries, the Tigers went to the air just 12 times. 
However, in no way should all the blame be placed on the shoulders of the Irish defense. After all, the unit did 

limit LSU to just 97 yards in the first half and practically single­handedly gave the Irish a 6-3 leading heading into intermission. 
"We felt really good at halftime; we were able to do some good things defensively," said Davie. "[But] they came out and controlled the game in the second half. We weren't able to execute offensively or defensively." 
Notre Dame's inability to move the ball against the Tigers eventually took its toll on the Irish in the second half. Mealey's game-clinching 78-yard run in the third quarter came against a Notre Dame defense that looked tired. 
"We made some critical mistakes in the second half," said Davie. "On the long run, we didn't get lined up right. I give them a lot of credit for coming out the way they did in the second half." 
It was the same old storyline. It just came from an unlikely hero. 
Insight 
continued from page 1 
tively. 

Still, good individual performances were not enough to satisfy the seniors. 
The Independence Bowl was a frustrating ending for a group of seniors who in four or five years have survived the gamut of what is good and bad about Notre Dame football. 
For the fifth-year seniors, they walked into what was arguably a national championship season. Unfortunately, they haven't seen anything close since. For the fourth-year seniors, they walked into a 6-5-1 record, and have been clawing their way up, through construction and coaching changes, to finish with a winning season. Although the fifth­years were members of the 1993 team that beat Texas A&M in the Cotton Bowl, no member of the 1997 team was an active participant in a winning bowl game. 
There is no doubt that this group of seniors is a group of survivors. Unfortunately, its final act of survival was masked by a poor performance on a rainy/snowy night at a non-alliance bowl in a small town in Louisiana. 
And while a rematch with LSU, on paper, provid­ed the best possible opponent for the Irish, it is sad that the final game of the seniors was marked by the best hit of the evening being that of a Shreveport policeman on the second streaker of the game who crossed the field. 
Some might say that the last four years have not provided anything outstanding for the history of Notre Dame football. No national championship. No 
major win over a No. 1 or No. 2 team. 
Many argue that a 9-3 and 8-3 season, flanked by two barely .500 seasons, do not constitute a suc­cessful career in Notre Dame standards. 
However, if you ask any one of the members of the senior class about his career, you won't hear about the last four years. You'll hear about the next four years, and the four after that. Maybe it wasn't by choice, but the senior class can take pride in what it • has done for the future of Notre Dame football. 
It has successfully taken the team through the decline of one era and the baptism of a new one. Neither of those have been particularly easy, and neither has provided the kind of success that stands out in the long-standing tradition of Notre Dame football. 
But if you ask any of the younger members of the 1997 team, or wait a couple years and ask those who are the future of Irish football, there is no doubt that the seniors of '97 will not be forgotten. 
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 

27 
Independence Bowl Shreveport, La. December 28, 1997 
I
I 
I 

9 

Junior quarterback Jarious Jackson was unable to give the Irish the lift they were looking for against the Tigers. 



... 









ACCENT 
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 page 15 
ow an 

ater 
By ALYSSA DENARDI Guest Writer 
One semester down, only seven 
left. I am one-eighth done with 
what are supposed to be the 
best years of my life. From the graffiti dance, 
to my first time at 
Bridget's, to running 
on the field at the 
West Virginia 
game, I have a 
gazillion images 
from my first 
months here 
that are strong 
enough to last 
forever. But looking back on my semester. espe­cially after hav­ing three weeks at home, I real­ized that I have gained more than just memories and friends, I have gained independence. And although terrified by the thought, I admit­ted to myself that I have changed. It occurred to me that I am completely on my own, and I'm actually okay. Coming into Notre Dame I had so 
many expectations that perhaps it was 
impossible for all of them to be fulfilled. 
expected tons of parties and instead I found binge drinking and no parties. I hoped to attach myself to mature college men and instead I found most boys were unaware of the term platonic ... look it up. I looked forward to complete inde­pendence and was slapped in the face with parietals. Having dealt with Notre Dame's shortcomings I look for ways to make up for them 
in the coming semester. 
I want to move beyond dozens of "Hi, where are you from?" and occasional smile 
relationships to developing mean­ingful friendships. I 

want  to  make  
Dean's List.  I plan  
on  eating  cereal  

other than Captain Crunch and expand­ing my social scene 
beyond the walls of Bridget's. 
I hope to do less drunk dialing and have more in-depth conversa­
tions. 
I want to actually find someone other than Leonardo DiCaprio to dream about. I plan on devoting as much attention to International 

Relations as I do to "Party of Five." I want to look up at the Golden Dome everyday and remember not to take this all for granted after all, it is one-eighth over. 
-a ... ca 
Cl) 
.c 
ca 
m 
c 
0 ... ·-..-: 
0 
..1 

By RACHEL TORRES Saint Mary's Accent Editor 

m 
c
... 
~ 
0 0 
..1 
My college career is seven-eighths complete. This can not be. Perhaps if I repeat it, I will be better able to 
believe it. This means I have only one-eighth to go. One semester is only about four months. which equals a few short weeks. which in the grand scheme of things is a tiny grain in the sands of time. I'm panicked. My sec­ond-semester senior status brings with it a cornucopia of mixed emotions. 
The light at the end of the tunnel races closer, and what is a second-semester senior to do? Should I be fright­ened? After all, it's only a matter of months before I'm released from col­lege to sally forth into the ominous "real world." There, they will force me to wake up before noon every day. Should I be sad? In some way, I will miss all of the people I've met here. Should I be glad? I'll be truly independent. Should I go ahead with graduate school? this point, deferring my full entrance to the real-world sounds like like an increasingly viable option. 
I remember how frustrating it was when I was a freshman and overheard two seniors talking about how they just couldn't wait to graduate and be done with it all. "Why?" I thought, "This is so much fun." Now, I look back with the perspective of a wise elder and sympathize with their predicament. They didn't mean they didn't like school anymore. They were just ready for something else. 
It's a paradox; l don't want it to be over, but yet I do. I want to be a real "grown-up," but I also like the perks of my college world. I look back with nostalgia, and this makes me feel old. Remember when seniors seemed so old? Guess what? You are those seniors now. It's creepy, 
isn't it? 
So many stories lately begin with, "Hey, remember when ... ?" We have seven semes­ters of memories on which to reflect. Countless road trips, football games, parties, and dances have happened. Let's take some time to sit back and reflect upon some com­mon accumulated memories. 
Remember this time four years ago. Ah ... it seems like yesterday. You were bright-eyed, bushy-tailed high school seniors who could not wait to conquer college. So much was going to happen. You were leaving home. You would be challenged by the finest institu­tions for higher learning in the country. Then, reality hit and you saw that everybody else 
had excellent grades in high school, too and you didn't feel as smart as you thought you were. 
Remember when you went to parties and didn't know any­body there? (Yeah, I know... Mike?) Remember when weekend plans were referred to in terms of a dorm name and floor? Like Planner 4, 7, or 8? Do you remember Planner at all? Can you recall how much you appreci­ated the one person who had a car and could get you off campus for that all­important late night Meijer run? Remember the dog book dates? Who can forget the ritual of cramming 12 people into one dining hall table made to seat only six? All of these are precious memories 
that you will carry always. 
However, it's not over yet. To me, the phrase "carpe diem" has never seemed as appropriate a» it does in this case. The whole "seize the day," "gather ye rosebuds," "Dead Poet's Society" theme rings true. It rings loudly, and should prmppt you to "just do it." 
"Do what?" you ask. 
Do whatever you haven't had a chance to do yet. It only has four months to get done before it won't. 
After all, you haven't graduated yet. 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
•NHL 
NCAA makes'rule changes in 
light three wrestlers' deaths 
Caps end six-game skid against Ottawa 
• WRESTLING "'' 
Associated Press 
WASIIINGTON 

The Washington Capitals emphatically solved their Ottawa jinx Tuesday night, ending a six-game losing streak against the Senators with a 4-0 victory. 
Andrew Brunette scored twice to make it eight goals in eight games since his recall from Portland, and Washington made up for a season-and-a-half of domi­nance by Ottawa goaltender Hon Tugnutt in the tnarns' head-to-head series. 
Thn Senators had outscored the Capitals by a combined 23­4 over their last half-dozen games, with Tugnutt's goals against average at 0.67. This time. Tugnett was chased early in the second pnriod after giving up his third goal in 14 shots. 
Peter Bondra scored his 28th goal of the season, and Steve Konowalchuk netted his fourth for the Capitals, who havn won three of their last four. Adam Oates got his 36th assist. All­Star goaltender Olaf Kolzig, who stopped 37 of 38 shots at Detroit on Sunday, saved all 24 he faced Tuesday. 
Ottawa wrapped up a five­game road trip, its longest of the season, at 1-2-2. The Senators, 0-3 on the power play, have not scored with a man advantage in nine games, going 0-for-28. 
The Capitals took the lead 
1:40 into the game when Sergei Gonchar's shot from the right p_oint bounced off Brunette's hip and into the net. It was 2-0 after Bondra, fighting off Shawn McEachern's attempts to grab from behind, persevered to score on a breakaway at 14:13. 
Konowalchuk scored only his second goal since October when his centering pass car­omed off the left skate of Shaun Van Allen and between Tugnutt's legs at 2:54 of the second period. Coach Jacques Martin then replaced Tugnutt with Damian Hhodes. 
Brunette got his second of the game on a power play later at 8:12 of the second, putting in the rebound after Todd Krygier's shot hit the left post. 
Associated Press 
OVERLAND PARK, Kan, 

The NCAA, jarred by the recent deaths of three wrestlers trying to make their weight. classes, · announced nd~ changes Tuesday that''~' put new restrictions on the ways wrestlers shed pounds to . make weight. 
Wrestlers may not use saunas for water loss, and rubber suits and diuretics cannot be used for any rea· son. NCAA rules already bar laxatives, fluid restriction, self-induced vomiting, hot rooms, hot boxes and steam rooms for dehydration. The NCAA defined a hot room as a room with a temperature above 79 degrees. 
For the rest of this season only, a seven-pound weight allowance has been added to all weight classes, which already have a one-pound allowance. 
For example, for the 118­pound class, wrestlers may weigh as much as 126 pounds. But as of Feb. 1, 
when the one-pound allowance ends. seven pounds will be added to each weight class, making 125 pounds the upper limit of the 118-poun(l class: The rule is effective only for the rest of this season and is expected to be reviewed when NCAA rules officials meet in April. 
Wrestlers may compete only in weight classes in which they competed on or before Jan. 7 of this season. 
All weigh-ins will be held no more than two hours before a match; cutting down the time athletes have to lose weight. 
''With less recovery time after weigh-in, a person who is using his head knows if he has to cut too much weight, he's not going to perform on the mat,'' said Marty Benson, playing rules liaison to the NCAA Wrestling Rules Committee. 
Dan Gable. who took this year off as coach at Iowa after leading the Ilawkeyes to 15 national titles in 21 years as coach, said the changes were overdue, but praised them anyway. 
"It's been a long month try­ing to get some of these changes," said Gable. "I didn't realize how much pro~ tocol you had to go through to get what we thought were emergency changes. It's bet· ter late than never. ft will help the individual and the sport." 
The deaths alarmed coach­es and prompted calls for the NCAA to review its rules. 
The most recent victim was 21-year-old Jell' Reese of the University of Michigan. He died in December of kidney failure and a heart malfunc­tion while wearing a rubber suit and riding a stationary bike to Jose weight. 
Eighteen days earlier, University of Wisconsin-La Crosse wrestler Joseph LaRosa, 22, also was wearing a rubber suit and riding an exercise bike when he died trying to shed four pounds. 
On Nov. 9, 19-yoar-old Billy Saylor at North Carolina's Campbell University died try­ing to drop six pounds for a match. 
• COLLEGE BASKETBAll 

UNC looking to stay unbeaten UConn cruises 80-59 
. . Associated Press Boston College, when they also 
Associated Prm Tuesday. Sem1;wles, ~econd-half pomts. took a while to get untracked. "The Duke loss was unfortu-The ferrapms then held N.C. HARTFORD. Conn. UConn didn't score in the first 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. 

nate. but we used it as a moti-State to 65 points in a three-Hichard Hamilton scored 21 3 1/2 minutns had 14 of the 23 This one is about redemption. 
vational tool." point win Saturday. . points as No. 10 Connecticut turnovers b(;{·~re the break and
Aftnr losing by 32 points at 

The Terrapins learn~d they ·:No:V:V we _hav_e to keep It pieced together a 15-0 run was trailing Seton Hall most of home against No. 2 Duke, the 
can't win without anythmg less gomg, Ekezle said. . around halftime and then sailed the way bnfom halftime. 
Maryland basketball team 
than a full effort on ?ot~ sides T~e ~err~pins (9-5, 2-2 ) to a 80-59 over Seton Hall on Down 27-24, they quickened
regained a measure of 
of the c~urt. That d1dn t h~p-can t wm With d~fense alone. Tuesday night. the pace and scored eight unan­respectability last week by win­pen agamst the Blue Devtls, Profit was held Without a field Jake Voskuhl added a career-swered points before halftime. 
ning twice to climb out of the and the results were disas-goal a_gainst Duke .but r~bou?d-high 17 points for the Huskies Khalid El-Amin capped the run Atlantic Coast Conference eel­trous. ed With 15 agamst. Flortda and also matched his best day with a 3-pointer from the rightJar. 
"You get beat by 32·points at State and 17 agamst the on the boards with 15 rebounds, baseline to give UConn a 32-27 
Beating Florida State at 

home, then obviously you want Wolfpack. the same amount he got last lead heading into the locker-home and North Carolina State 
to think it's a fluke," Maryland "Laron did a good job for us year against the Pirates. room. 
on the road helped Maryland 
center Obinna Ekezie said. "To last week," coach Gary UConn {15-2, 5-1 Big East) The Huskies built the lead to 
ease the anguish of its worst 
lose that badly, why, it should Williams said. "He's a very took a 32-27 lead with an 8-0 39-30 in the first 100 seconds 
home loss in 29 years. But if 
be out of the question. We just good player. I think sometimes run just before halftime and after the break and the Pirates the Terrapins are to completely didn't put out a full effort." he puts too much pressure on then built on it with a quick 7-0 became unglued. Shaheen 
obliterate the aura of uncnr­
Duke took a 12-3 lead in the himself to be great every night. spurt that took the life out of Holloway ended Seton Hal1's 
tainty created by the Duke 
opening 80 seconds and had 61 Very few players can be great Seton Hall (8-8, 2-4) in a game drought with a three, but UConn 
debade, they must play well 
, points by halftime. The Blue every night." that had been sloppy but close responded with a 15-2 run to 
Wednesday night against No. 1 Devils finished with 102 points, Although the Tar Heels are through most of the first half. put the game away.
North Carolina at Cole Field 
the most scored by an oppo-unbeaten, Maryland has won For the Huskies, who fell two Holloway finished with 18 House. 
nent at Maryland since the two of three against North spots in the rankings after last points to lead Seton Hall and 
"We can erase a lot of doubts 

1990-91 season. Carolina. In 1995, the week's loss at Miami, it was a Donell Williams added 10. El-
by putting up a good fight and 
Maryland's defense did an Terrapins defeated the then-game of two halfs. similar to Amin had 16 points for the 
maybe winning the game," for­about-face against the No.1 Tar Heels 86-73. Sunday's matchup against Huskies and Kevin Frnemen 10. 
ward Laron Profit said 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8y.m. to 3 p.m. at the Not~e Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. ro 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar Coll~ge Center. Deadline fur next-day
dassifieds is 3p.m. All dassiheds must be.Prepatd. The char~e IS 3cents per chamcter per day, ·~elud­ing all spaces. The Observer reserves the nght to edit all dass1fieds for content Without 1ssu1ng refunds. 
Classifieds 
.___N_o_T_Ic_E_s_ __.l 
BEST HOTELS, LOWEST PRICES, ALL SPRINGBREAK locations. Cancun. Jamaica, from $399, Florida, from $89, Texas. Mazatlan. Bahamas. Register your group to be our Campus Rep. 800-327-6013 www.icpt.com 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. Don't take a chance with an unkown agency or some 1-800 number. Limited space available, so book now! 
Anthony Travel, Inc. Lafortune Student Center 631-7080 
~....I_w._'A_N_T_E_o_ __, 
ANNOUNCING! CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING!! $2600/mo. potential. Seasonal/full time. Call now! (614)261-1853. FREE GIFT. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 
House for Rent 

Two Blocks from Campus 4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer, August for Fall. Includes Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and off-street Parking. 
MONITORED SECURITY 
SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! 
Call 289-4712 

1 Bed room furnished apt in a home in good residential area. 10 mins from NO. Share kitchen. Security system. No smoking,drinking or party­ing. Postgrad student or faculty only. $ 400 per month. Security deposit $250, References required. Call 277-0189 after 3.30 pm 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS ­5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOLYEAR 2773097 
FOR SALE 
FREE COUCH!! ND-SMC grads have couch to give away! 2 cushion sleeper sofa. We don't have space for it anymore! Come & get it! 2 miles from SMC-ND. 277-3189 
2 OASIS Concert Tix! Sat, Jan 17 in Chicago 288-8499 
Brass bed, queen size with deluxe orthpedic Mattress set and Frame. New. never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219­862-2082 
PERSONAL 
CATERING-CALL FAZOLI'S 277-4008 
Welcome Back! 
we need photo department thanks katie kroener 
but we need mark deboy more 
Auditions for"Your're a Good Man Charlie Brown" will be held in room 1 b Regina SMC campus Wed &Thur @ 7 pm 
squirrels are cute and fun, I love them! 
here's an idea if it works DO NOT SCREW WITH IT 
why is it that I have only two girls total in four of my classes 
GO IRISH B-BALL!! I don't care if it really is "Unearned unhappiness," I 
think that "Honor not happi­ness" is much cooler. Oh my God! You killed Kenny! Dude! ... Sick! Hi kids, I'm TV's Patrick Duffy. Everyone needs Mark DeBoy. "Can I get your name love?" "Titanic" rocks. But Celine Dion 
screws it all up. 
I'm sweating like a Spice Girl on "Jeopardy." Happy Birthday, Jamie. Hi-dee ho! We're printing like it's our job. 

Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
I 
-I 


I 

' II 
I I 
I 
. 1 
??tn fi«Pte . tNt ~ 
~~~tHee-~~ p~ ~ ~s~. ~ Z'ame, 1~ 46556 
(219) 631-63F5 • Mtp,://~.d.edu/-~ 
ANSWER~ 
THECALLW 


-page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 






Ranked Syracuse, FSU fall to conference opponents 
Associated Press 
SYHACUSE, N.Y. 
.lame! Thomas scored 19 
points and Kendrick Moore 
added 17 as Providence atoned 
for a humiliating loss to 
Syracuse six days earlier by 
beating the 15th-ranked 
night. 
It was only thn second victo­
ry for l'rovidnncc (7-7, 2-3 Big 
East) in 17 games in the 
Carrier Dome, and it was 
sweet. The Friars lost 77-59 at 
home to Syracuse (14-2, 4-1) 
last week. 
The Friars scored the first 
18 points of the game and 
tlwir tough defenses proved 
too much for the Orangemen 
to overcome. Syracuse shot 
30.8 percent and was just 2­of'-18 from 3-point range against the Providenee dnfense, which kept switching from man-to-man to zone. 
Syracuse missed all seven of its 3-pointers in the first half and didn't make one until .Jason Hart hit one with 8:17 left to bring Syracuse within 51-4(!. 
If Syracuse had visions of a comeback with the crowd at feverpitch, those visions quiek­ly disappeared. Thomas, who went over the 1,000-point mark. cam11 right back down the eourt and hit a :~ and Syracuse never recovered. 
Marius .lanulis, the Big East's leading 3-point shooter 
(49.4 percent) scored just two points-on free throws-and was 0-of-3 from long range after hitting ninll 3s in his pre­vious two games. 
Hart llld Syracuse with 22 points, while Hyan Blaekwell had I 9 and Todd Burgan 10. 
From tlw outset, the Friars seemed intent on proving that last week's loss was a !luke. In that game, Providence shot a 
I I I 

, I 
woeful 28.8 percent from the field and was 3-of-19 from 3­point range. 
The first half Tuesday was almost a carbon copy, except it was Syracuse that was cold. 
less for the first six minutes while the Friars were nearly !lawless. 
While Syracuse was 0-for-7 on 3-pointers, Providence hit its first three 3s -two by Thomas -and ran out to the big lead. While Syracuse was missing its first five shots, Providence was going 7 -of-8. 
Clemson 86, Florida St. 65 
Point guard Terrell Mcintyre scored 15 points and was back at full speed for Clemson, which used a 17-8 run to hand No. 17 Florida State its third 
straight  Atlantic  Coast  
Conference  loss,  86-65  
Tuesday night.  

The Seminoles (12-5, 1-4) made some national noise with victories over Connecticut and defending NCAA champion Arizona earlier this season. But in league play, they have fallen to last place, losing to Maryland and Duke before Clemson's victory. 
Mcintyre missed three games and spent most of a month recovering from a painful right foot injury. He did not start for the Tigers (11-5, 2-2), but less than two minutes in and Florida State leading 5-2, he took the floor and quickly showed his impor­tam~e. 
lie scored seven points as Clemson grabbed a 30-22 lead that it never gave up. 
When Florida State closed to 43-40 on Corey Louis' opening basket of the second half, Mcintyre fired up the Tigers with three driving layups and several breakout passes. · 


"l;)©~~ [?G)8[1Jn®w ~w®w \JVJ® ~ ~rn~.m~n®w8 

BCAF is looking for models to be in the 1998 Black Cultural Arts Festival Fashion Show March 28. 
Workshop Dates January 14, 1998 @ Pasquerilla Hall West 8 -10 pm January 18, 1998 @ Pasquerilla Hall West 8 -10 pm January 21, 1998 @ Pasquerllla Hall West 8 -10 pm January 25, 1998 @ Pasquer/1/a Hall West 8 -10 pm 
-· Tryout Date January 26, 1.998 @ Pasqueril/a Hall West 8 · 1.0 pm 
•Attendance is required. If you have any questions please contact Meloney Moore @ 4-2905 
By the time Mcintyre left for Barnes' four seasons. a break with just less than Clemson outscored Florida eight minutes to go, Clemson State 69-33 with Mcintyre in was in front 70-52 and head­the game, while thl) Tigers ing for its most lopsided were outscored 32-17 with league win in coach Rick him on the bench. 
Greg Buckner had 20 points to lead the Tigers, who fin­ished with livll players in dou­ble figures. 
Louis topped the Seminoles with 14 points. 


Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•NBA 
Jordan scores 40 as the Bulls prevail over Seattle 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO 

Michael Jordan scored 40 points as the Chicago Bulls re­established themselves as the class of the NBA by defeating home game. Gary Payton the Seattle SuperSonics 101-91 scored 22 points and Yin Baker Tuesday night. 21 for Seattle, which has its 
Dennis Rodman had 17 first two-game losing streak rebounds for the Bulls, who this season. won their 15th consecutive In winning for the 14th time 


Last Chance 
to Prepare for the 

April MCAT! 
Classes starting this week! 
1/13, 1/14, 1/15, 1/22, 2/1 
Enroll today to save your spot! 
Call today to enroll in the #1 MCAT prep course. 

l·BOO·KAP·TEST 
www.kaplan.com 


THE GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY 

First session: May 20 -July 1 Second session: July 6-August 14 
1998 Summer Announcement available in March. 
For more information: call 202.994.6360 e-mail sumprogs®gwis2.circ.gwu.edu 
Jhe

_JC.;eor~e
\Vashlfii!ton 
Untver~tty
WASHINGTON(;( 

GW is an affirmattve actton/equal opportunity institution. 

in 16 games, the two-time defending champion Bulls toyed with the team that has the league's best record. Although Chicago (26-11) is three games behind Seattle (29-8) in the overall standings, the Bulls provided evidence that they'll be the team to beat come playoff time. 
They again have Scottie Pippen, who played his second game after missing the first 2 112 months while recovering from foot surgery. He looks rusty offensively, but strength­ens an already tough defense. The Bulls held Seattle to 42 percent shooting and outre­bounded the Sonics 48-36. 
Despite playing with a cold, Jordan reached 40 points for the fifth time in the last 10 games as he pushed his league­leading average to 29.1 points. 
Jordan was 12-for-27 from the floor and 16-for-18 from the line as he either scored against or drew fouls on every­one who guarded him -from Payton to Hersey Hawkins to David Wingate to Dale Ellis to Detlef Schrempf. 
Jordan committed a season­high five fouls himself, leaving the game after No. 5 with 1:47 to play. 
It was while he was on the bench after getting his third foul with 2:52 left in the first half that the Bulls opened their double-digit lead. Jason Caffey scored four points and Steve Kerr hit a 3-pointer during a 10-2 run that made it 56-46 at halftime. 
Jordan scored the Bulls' first five points of the second half and the Bulls never led by less than 10 the rest of the way as what was supposed to be a monumental clash between the 1996 finalists never material­ized. 



KAT Photo 

Michael Jordan has scored 40 or more points in five of his last 1 0 games. 
SPW Invitations will be sent out on Monday,]anuary 19for all sophomores. Ifyour address has been changed or you do not want an invitation sent to your home, please contact Elaine in Student Activities at x4562 or Erin at x5194ASAP. 
Thanks, 
SPW Committee 
.. 

page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
-
•NBA 

Rockets win behind Willis' 30-point performance 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON 

Kevin Willis scored 14 of his 30 points in a comeback third quarter Tuesday night as the Houston Hocket snapped a three-game losing streak with a 100-87 over the Vallas Mavericks. 
The Mavericks have lost 18 of their last 19 games. Their only win in that span came against Denver, which has the NBA's worst record. 
Houston lost the lead on the first basket of the second quar­ter, trailed 41-37 at halftime and didn't regain the lead until Willis led a 20-<J third-quarter run. 
The Hockets, who had lost four in a row at home, took the lead 52-51 on a slam dunk by Willis on an slashing pass from Hodrick Hhodes with 5:38 to go in the third quarter. 
Dallas got the lead back at 55-52 on two baskets by Michael Finley, but a basket by Willis and free throw by Hhodes tied it and Mario Elie's two free throws with 3:07 to the Heat used Jamal Mashburn's 18 points to beat the Trail Blazers 76-68. 
The Blazers made a fran­chise-low 22 field goals -in 68 attempts -only three more than the NBA record. Two of the field goals came in the final half-minute. 
Portland, which shot 4-for-17 and had five turnovers in the fourth quarter, lost its fifth in a row and third straight at home. The 68 points broke the team· record for fewest points set Jan. 2 in a 85-69 loss at San Antonio. 
The Heat won even though they shot 2-for-19 in the fourth quarter. Alonzo Mourning was 1-for-8 shooting for two points in 17 foul-plagued minutes. Portland also outscored Miami 22-11 from the foul line. 
Tim Hardaway scored 14 for the Ileat, now 3-0 on their six­game West Coast visit. Miami moves on to the meat of its trip with games against Seattle, the Los Angeles Lakers and Phoenix. 
Veshon Lenard added 13 for Miami. 
and Arvydas Sabonis and Isaiah Hider scored 14 apiece for Portland. Gary Trent had 12 points and 10 rebounds but was just 4-for-12 from the field. 
Portland's Kenny Anderson was 1-for-10 shooting for three points in 42 minutes. 
Even though Mourning and his backup Isaac Austin spent most of the game on the bench in foul trouble, the Heat led nearly the entire game, but never by more than 12 points. 
Through three quarters, Mourning played just seven minutes and Portland had outscored the Heat from the free throw line 18-4, and still Miami led 65-55. 
The game got even uglier in the fourth quarter. 
Miami missed its first 14 shots of the period, yet led 70­61, because Portland was 1­for-12. 
The difference turned out to be an 11-0 run midway through the second quarter. Terry Mills sank two 3-point­ers, and Mashburn had a 3­pointer and a 20-foot 2-pointer 
The Blazers are winless since Brian Grant went out with a sore leg. 
Cavaliers 102, Suns 84 
Derek Anderson scored 10 of his 14 points in the fourth quarter, including six in 63 seconds, as the Cleveland Cavaliers snapped their three­game losing streak with a 102­84 win over the Phoenix Suns on Tuesday night. 
Zydrunas llgauskas had 23 points and 16 rebounds for Cleveland, but just two in the final period, when Anderson picked up the slack. 
George McCloud got the Suns within 86-79 with a three­point play with 4:51 left in the game. But in the next 1:03, Anderson darted across the lane for a jumper and made four free throws to open a 92­79 lead. 
Cedric Henderson and Wesley Person had 17 points each as all five Cleveland starters scored in double fig­ures. 
Rex Chapman scored 22 
Nash had 15. 
The Cavaliers led from the first 1:40 when Brevin Knight, who had 15 points and eight assists, made it 6-4 with a jumper. The Suns, though, had the deficit down to 49-46 at halftime. 
Then Cleveland started the third period with an 8-0 run. Chapman got Phoenix within five at 61-56 with 6:06 left in the quarter, but 14 seconds later he was called for a foul while fighting off a pick, and threw the ball into the adver­tising bank on the sideline. 
Person started another 8-0 run with the technical free throw and finished it with a baseline jumper, giving the Cavaliers a 77-65 lead going into the final period. 
The Suns put on a 6-0 spurt to start the final quarter, with Jason Kidd hit a 20-footer and made a fast-break layup in a 
1:20 span. But Phoenix went the next four minutes without a point. 
Ilgauskas got his final points on two free throws, and Person made it 84-71 with a 3-pointer 

play put the Hockets on top for good. 
Willis shot 7 -for-8 in the third quarter and also had 12 robounds. 
Matt Bullard started his third game of the season and added 15 points for the Buckets, including llouston's final nine points on three straight 3-point baskets. Bullard was 5-of-7 from 3-point range. 
Charles Barkley had 13 points and 17 ·rebounds for the Hoekets before he was ejected with 4:24 to play after slam­ming thn ball near of'ficial Dnrriek Stafford. 
Houston took a 22-20 lead into the second quarter, but missed its first eight shots of the second period. The Hockets went 4:39 without a point in the period and 5:53 without a basket. 
Samaki Walker led the Mavericks with a eareer-high 26 points and 13 r'ebounds. lie had 17 points at the half, induding nine straight Dallas points that ended with the Mavericks leading 38-28. 
Heat 76. Trail Blazers 68 

Miami's defense held Portland to its lowest point total ever Tuesday night. and 
Rasheed Wallace scored 17, during the burst. points for Phoenix, and Steve with 6:43 to go. 
THE 9TH ANNUAL 
N 0 T R E DAME 


STUDENT 

"O.K ... the smoking nun was a bad idea,


FESTIVAL 
but read my new script

FRIDAY & SATURDAY 7:30 & 9:45PM 
Weights & wafer~: 
Adventures of the World's


JANUARY 23 2 
$2 ADMISSION SNITE MUSEUM OF ART Strongest Priest" 
PRESENTED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNICATION AND THEATRE 
Do Vau Have Type 1 (insulin-dependent} 
Diabetes? 
If you are between the ages of 18 and 25 and have type 1 diabetes, we are looking for you. A research group at the Bayer Corporation is currently developing new tests to predict who will develop diabetes before disease symptoms appear. During these early stages of research, blood samples from people who currently have type 1 diabetes are necessary. If you volunteer to assist in this study, you will be asked to do three things: 
1
. Sign a consent form allowing us to collect a blood sample and use that sample for our research. 

2. 
Fill out a brief medical history form. 


3. Allow a registered phlebotomist to draw 100 ml ,. 
(approx. 3.5 oz.) of blood from your arm. 
This process will take approximately 30 minutes and will 
take place at the Bayer Corporation location in Elkhart. 
Donors wi# be given $ t 00.00 to compensate them fro their tfme and inconvenience. 
If you are interested in participating in this study, please call Shannon Gleason at 262-6578 for more information. 
Fast. That's the kind of service you can expect from Fazoli's. 

Wresto. 
Whether you dine in, carry out or drive through, you'll get a real Italian meal in a matter of minutes. All for the price of a song. 
Rea] 
lta]j ® an. Rea] Fast"' 

52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, Smtih Bend 317 W McKinley, 255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street 262-9873, Elkhart 
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 

C E N T E R F 0 R 






e[come 
ackf•
SOCIAL CONCERNS 
~ aPe invited to kick offthe Center for Socia( concerns t5th AtutW~ CeCe&ratton 
The Center for Social Concerns would like to welcome students back from their holiday break and thank you for 15 wonderful years of participation and support. So stop in to join us for cake and punch. 

SUMMER SERVICE PROTECT INFORMATION Information Meeting for Hispanic and African American Leadership Intern Program Students on January 21st (Wed.) 6:00-7:00 PM at the CSC. SSP Information Session on January 21, 7:00 to 7:30PM at the CSC. 
SPRING BREAK SEMINARS Applications are available for the following one-credit service-learning courses: 
Appalachia Seminar Washington Seminar L' Arche Community Migrant Experiences Applications due: Wednesday, January 28, 1998 
ENVIRONMENTAL TALK Tamar Datan, Center for Compatible Economic Development at The Nature Conservancy. "Growing Green: The Road to Environmentally Compatible Economic Development" CSC Coffee House, Friday, January 16, noon-1:00 p.m. (Co-sponsored with Kroc Institute) 
POST GRADUATE SERVICE OPPORTUNITIES "Applications and Interviews for Post-Graduate Service Programs: Helpful Hints" Monday, January 19, 5-6pm at the esc. 
Apostolic Volunteers Information Session­Wednesday, January 21 at the CSC. 
"What's a Senior to do?" Balancing Relationships, Service and Careers" -Workshop with MJ Murray-Vachon, Thursday, January 22 at the esc. 
"Integrating Service Beyond ND/SMC: A Retreat for Seniors" -February 7-8 -Sign up at the CSC or Campus Ministry by January 26. 
Information Session on Post-Graduate Service Opportunities ­Thursday, January29, 5-6 pm at the CSC. 
"Loan Deferments and Post-Graduate Service Programs" ­Panel discussion, Wednesday February 4, 5-6pm at the CSC. 
Dominican Volunteers Information Session -Tuesday, February 10, 7pm at the CSC. 
Peace Corps Information Night -Tuesday, February 17, 6pm at the esc. 
Not-for-Profit Career Workshop-Sponsored by the CSC and Career and Placement, Wednesday, February 18, 4-5:30pm. Location to be announced. 
"Reflections on Latin American Service Experiences" -by returned Holy Cross Associates and Farm of the Child Volunteers, Thursday, February 19, 7pm at the CSC. 
"Discernment: How does one's faith impact decision-making?" with Larry Cunningham -Thursday, February 26, 5-7pm at the esc. 

Wednesday, January 14, 1998 

The Observer • SPORTS
page 22 
• NFL
Elway trying to erase previous Super Bowl losses 

Associated Press 
DENVER 

In what could be his last hur­rah. John Elway hopes to get in tlw last laugh. 
i\lnmdy bparing the stigma of being tlw losing quarterback in thrne previous Super Bowls, and now leading a 13-point under­dog into this year's Super Bowl against Green Bay on Jan. 25, th!~ Dnnv!~r Broncos quarter­back can't resist a chuckle. 
lie's almost happy-go-lucky in his approach to what could be tlw final game of his brilliant 15-year career. 
i\skPd on Tuesday if he was putting any Pxtra prnssure on hims!d!', l~lway said, "No. I'm going out tlwre to do tlw best I can. That's all I can do. With the balance we have on ol'fcnse, itactually takes tlw pressurn off 
me. 
''I'm going to enjoy this. It's 
not the time to fePI I ike you've 
got tlw weight on your shoul­
ders becaus!~ the end is near. If 
anything, I'm going to try to go 
tlw other way and enjoy it." 
lklkrting questions about his 
future -lw will make a deci­
sion about whether to continue 
playing during thn oflseason ­
the 37-year-old Elway insisted 
he has benefited from a 
changed perspective. 
"Early in my career, the only 

thing I ever cared about -the 
only priority that was of any 
importance -was winning a 
Super Bowl." he said. "As you 
get older. as you get married 
and have a family and start 
doing dill'erent things outside of 
football, your priorities change. 
It's not that this is not a high 
priority for me. 
There are other things that are more important than win­ning a Super Bowl. It gets put in a different perspective." 
So those Super Bowl losses ­the only blemishes in his career -haven't had any negative effects on his psyche'? 
"I've never considered suicide, if that's what you're asking," he said. "Sure, you're disappointed. You just hope to get back and make amends for those losses. I was still young, in my seventh year, the last time we were there. It just took a bit longer to get back than we planned, but we're getting our shot. 
''I've never been able to live 

those (losses) down. I would like 
to put it behind me, but it's not 
allowed." 
Elway agreed with coach Mike 

Shanahan, who a day earlier 
said that this team represents 
Elway's best chance for a Super 
Bowl breakthrough. 
"I think this is the most bal­

ance (on ofl'ense) we've ever had 
going into a Super Bowl," Elway 
said. "This is the best running 
game we've ever had. We used 
to rely so much on the passing 
gamn, but now we've got great 
balance. 
"I think this is the best team 

we've had, but you never know. 
Green Bay is a pretty darn good 
team. They're as good a team as 
we've faced in the Super Bowl." 
Elway has vivid memories ­

mostly ugly -of his three Super 
Bowl losses. to the New York 
Giants after the 1986 season, to 
Washington in 1987 and to San 
Francisco in 1989. 
The 55-10 rout at the hands of 

the 49ers should have been 
expected, he said. 
"We never had a shot but 


tried to fool our­selves," he said. "We have to play 60 minutes and hope we can get in the game and give ourselves a chance to win. The Giants' game, we were in it until halftime. We didn't take advantage of some opportunities we had in the first half. and they dominated the sec­ond half. The Washington game, we're up 10-0, then 19 plays later they score 35 points. So that one was over by half­time. The Niners' game was over in the first quarter." 
Elway was most frustrated by the 42-10 loss to Washington which also was played in San Diego. 
"I really thought we had a chance to win that one," he said. "We were 
up 10-0 and one of KRT Photo our guys, Ken Bell, John Elway will try to lead his underdog Broncos to victory in his fourth Super Bowl. 
recovers a fumble on the next kick-With a mature team boasting off, but one of their guys stole it several other players with Super away before they could get Bowl experience. Elway said everybody off the pile. That was this year's team won't lose its the turning point. Still, to give focus. 
up 35 points in the second quar­"I think we got caught up in 
ter, mostly because of a guy the hype" in previous Super 
(Timmy Smith) who wasn't in Bowl ventures, he said. "We 
the league the next year, is kind kind of went there thinking, 
of mind-boggling." 'Hey, we're thrilled to death to be in thf) Super Bowl.' The focus has to be on winning that game and not just being happy to be there. 
"Like I told some of our younger guys: You may think this is great now. But you don't realize what the wrath will he like if you don't come out on top." 



I I I 




eac 1n 


• 
Goldman Sachs in Hong Kong 

• 
AT&T in London 

• 
Rhone-Poulnec in Chile 

• 
Price Waterhouse in Tokyo 

• 
Teach English or Business in Eastern Europe, Africa and Hong Kong 


• 
Spend you sumn1er work­ing for companies or teaching worldwide 

• 
Open to all ND/SMC Arts & Letters, Business, Edu­cation, Engineering and Science Majors 


Applications available outside L058 COBA. Questions?? Contact Randy Dominguez, Carolyn Parnell or Angela Cantu at 631-9044. Applications due January 21, 1998. 
Notre Dame Council on International Business Development 

-------~­
-----~~---------------------------~------. 
Wednesday, January 14, 1997 The Observer • SPORTS page 23 
duties, playing 35 minutes a game in conference play.
Garrity 
Derek Manner has continued to continued from page 28 put up Manner-like numbers with just under 7.2 points and 
Garrity is living up to the pre­5.5 rebounds a game. season Big East player of the MacLeod now finds his squad year honors as he is leading at 2-3 in the conference and 8­the conference in scoring with 5 overall which places it sec­a 22.8 points per game aver­ond to last in the Big East 6 age. Juniors Phil Hickey and division. The team has now Antoni Wyche are chipping in played some of the top teams 
11.6 and 10.1 points a game in the conference and some of respectively. Wyche scored a the lesser squads, which gives career-high 20 points in the it an idea of where it is and loss to St. John's. where it needs to go. 
Point guard Ma1·tin lngelsby's Tomorrow night the Irish will 
6.5 assists per game is good for try to turn things around, but it third in the conference as the will certainly be a stiff chal­freshman has made the transi­lenge. The Irish will travel to tion to Division I basketball. West Virginia to challenge the lngelsby is also averaging 7.2 20th-ranked Mountaineers, one points per game while carrying of the teams the Irish are look­the burden of the point guard ing up to in their division. 
Big East Men•s Basketball Standings 
League Games All Games 
BE 7 W L Pet w L Pet 
Syracuse 4 0 1.000 14 1 Miami 5 1wm .833 'ilf!fl~;1~ Georgetown 3 4 .4~~ Seton Hall 2 3\, ·.400 Pittsburgh 1 
~,:· ':~~g'lr

Providence 1 Rutgers 1 4 .200 
BE 6 
. ~~;.; 

.800 '11W'14:&.A< 2····
Connecticut 4 1 .875 West Virginia 4 2 .875 
2'';{ :~~fiJJIIEl~~
Villanova 4 .500 St. John's 2 3 .400 ;;;;,;,,1 0 6 ' .625 
Notre Dame 2 3 .400 8 5 .615 
Boston College 1 5 .167 8 8 .500 


hi there. our music department missed you. 
(welcome back.) 

ALBUM INCLUDES "FEEL SO GOOD,· PliJS LOO~IN' AT ME" tnATURING PUFF OAOOV
. . 



$13.99 CD $13.99 CD $13.99 CD 
SALE PRICES IN THIS AD END ON MARCH 31, 1998 


"On The Campus" Notre Dame Bookstore phone: 631-6316 
The Hammes 

~---------------­
--------~-----------. 
page 24 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 199S 
• HOCKEY 
Irish win three ti01es over break 
By CHARLEY GATES 
Sports Writt·r 
OvPr brt~ak, the Notre Damn hocklly team batted .500 in Central Collegiate !Iockey Assoeiation games, winning two games, losing two games, and tying another. The Irish prevailed in the season series with Alaska-Fairbanks 2-1, but earned a loss and a tie in two games with Miami University, which is currently ranked fourth in the country. 
In non-CCIIA action, they trashed Brown in the consola­tion game of the University of Minnesota Mariucci Classic. These results propelled the Irish (12-10-3 overall, 7-7-3 CCIIA) into a tie for sixth place in the CCIIA with F11rris State. Only one point sepa­rates thn Irish from a tie for lifth place with Lake Superior, and just two points exist lwtween the Irish and fourth place Northern Michigan. 
Thll Irish are in the midst of a 13-day break but return to action with away games at Bowling Green on .Jan. 24 and Ohio State on .Jan. 25. 
Notre Dame defeated Brown convincingly 5-I on Dec. 28. Though playing without sopho­more star forwards .Joe Dusbabek and Ben Simon, who were playing for the U.S. team in Europe for the World Junior Championship, the Irish had an offensive outburst. 
Notre Dame's first line of freshman left wing Dan Carlson, senior center Steve Noblr., and junior right wing Brian Urick alone produced four goals, three of which came during a second-period onslaught that saw the Irish outshoot Brown by a margin of 21-6. 
Sophomore goaltender Forrest Karr improved to 4-0­1 for the season after turning 
Discover!! 

Communities of Faith Sharing and Scripture Study 
You are invited to be part of Faith Sharing Groups In your Residence Halls. 
Information and applications are in your Halls and Campus Ministry (631-5242) 
J 

Rally Day: Saturday, January 17 12 Noon-3:00P.M. LaFortune Ballroom 0MPU5 

MINISTRY 
away 26 Brown shots. Noble began the scoring for the Irish in the first period. Uriek, Carlson. and sophomore Troy Bagne all scored goals in the second period, with Urick striking twice. Brown spoiled Karr's bid for a shutout early in the third period. 
The win gave the Irish 10 on the season, eclipsing last year's season win total. 
The hish began the new year on a bad note, losing to Miami 3-1 on .Jan. 2 at the Joyce Center. Miami goal­tender Trevor Piror turned in a stellar performance, stop­ping Notre Dame's first 40 shots on net. 
• Miami, which carne into the game with the CCIIA's top power-play unit but had no man-up chances after the Irish committed just three coinci­dental penaltiP-s, jumped out to a 3-0 lead after a scoreless first period. Sophomore John Dwyer averted the shutout by capitalizing on a rebound with less than two minutes to go in the game. 
Karr suffered his first loss of the season and stopped only 15 shots. The Irish outshot Miami 41-18. 
The following night the Irish again outshot Miami by a siz­able margin but could only muster a 2-2 tie. The Irish launched 35 shots to Miami's 19 and held them scoreless on two power play chances. The Irish carried a 2-1 lead on goals from junior forward Aniket Dhadphale into the third period but were unable to capture the victory. 
Senior goalt'ender Matt Eisler replaced Karr and earned the tie. The Irish were again without Simon and Dusbabek. who hclp1~d the U.S. team claim fifth place at the World .Junior Championship in Finland. 
The Irish then journeyed to Alaska for a three-game series with Alaska-Fairbanks from Jan. 8 to 10. The Irish cap­tured the first game 4-2 and improved their road record to 8-4. 
The Boys of Winter have simply dominated on the road this year, as evidenced by their record and by the fact that they have scored 42 goals on the road this season for an average of 3.5 goals per game, compared to 29 at home for a 
2.6 goals per game average. 
The Irish fell behind 1-0, but Noble evened the score with a goal in the first five minutes of the second period. Dhadphale, who has been splendid this season, then gave the Irish a 2-1 lead in the second period. After Alaska-Fairbanks again knotted the game, Dhadphale struck again, giving the Irish a 3-2 lead. 
Dhadphale's 15 goals rank second in the CCIIA and arc the most by a Notre Dame player since 1994-95, when Tim Harberts scored 21 times. .Junior dcfensernan Benoit Cotnoir finished the scoring in the third period with an unas­sisted goal. 

The following evening, Alaska-Fairbanks edged the Irish in overtime, 3-2, to com­plete a comeback victory. The Nanooks rallied from 1-0 and 2-1 deficits to further muddle the CCI-lA standings, as just four pGints separate fifth from ninth place. Urick gave the Irish a 1-0 lead, and sopho­more John Dwyer gave the Irish a 2-1 lead in the second period. But the Nanooks ral­lied, forcing overtime on a goal early in the third period. 
The winning goal came in overtime, when the Nannook goalie knocked the puck out of the air, allowing for an Alaska defenseman to send a long 
1.3B~iflJ 
* PER PERSON DEPENDING ON DESTINATION I BREAK DATES I LENGTH OF STAY. 
1-800-SVNCHASE 
TOLL FREE INFORMATION Bt RESERVATIONS 
www.sunchase.com 



pass up the ice to Chris Kirwan. Kirwan skated onto the puck for a breakaway 
chance and quickly beat Eisler for his ninth goal of the sna­son. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------~----------, 
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 25 
• NFL 
CBS, ABC, and Fox sign billion-dollar deals with NFL 
strongest network and could probably survive the loss of the NFL better than any of its com­petitors," said Neal Pilson, the former president of CBS Sports who runs a consulting firm. 
Since losing the NFC to Fox in 1993, CBS has been plotting its return to the NFL. And it accomplished it in stunning fashion Monday. The final plans began to be put into place in December 1996, shortly after McManus became president of CBS Sports. 
While CBS was interested in all three packages, the AFC was the most appealing, because it was undervalued in the last deal. More importantly, CBS owns seven stations in AFC markets, compared with three for NBC. 
"We know better than anyone what it is like to have the NFL and what it is like not to have the NFL and it is a whole lot better to have it," said Mel Karmazin, chief executive offi­cer of the CBS Station Group. "We had a tremendous advan­tage over NBC because of the owned and operated stations. If there is equal value on the net­work, we get the advantage of have in the four extra stations." 
CBS also was helped by the timing of the negotiations. The AFC package was the first to be negotiated, leaving NBC with an out if it lost. 
"The structure was an advan­tage for us," McManus said. "We heard that NBC had an interest in 'Monday Night Football.' We knew once the AFC was going first, that NBC would either have to pass on our bid or pass on Monday night." 
CBS made its bid to the NFL for the AFC late last week, McManus said. Late Monday afternoon, NBC passed and CBS jumped at the opportunity. 
With cable steadily eroding broadcasters' audience, losing the NFL can devastate a net­work's entire lineup by elimi­nating male viewers coveted by advertisers and leaving a huge hole for other programs that count on football's lead-in. No one knows that better than CBS, which saw a decline in ratings, especially among men, and a loss in affiliates after los­ing the NFL in 1993. 
Getting back in gives CBS a chance to promote shows across their lineup to the cru­cial young male audience. CBS missed billions of opportunities to attract NFL fans to other shows after losing out to Fox. 
"Our audience is skewed older and our revenue per eye­balls is skewed lower than the other networks," said Michael Jordan, chief executive officer of CBS Corp. "There is no rea­son why our audience is older. We believe the NFL will help us promote our prime-time shows to a different audience." 
Have something to say? Use The Observer Classifieds. 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

When the dealing was done, the players had changed but the result was the same: The NFL hit the jackpot. 
The final pieces of the NFL's television package fell into place Tuesday evening when Disney struck a blockbuster $9.2 billion, eight-year contract with the NFL. keeping "Monday Night Football" for ABC and winning the entire Sunday night cable package for ESPN. 
The stunning deal ends NBC's 33 consecutive years of televis­ing pro football and leaves NBC and Turner Broadcasting out of the NFL for at least five years. NBC's final broadcast will be the Super Bowl on Jan. 25. 
"The NFL and NBC had a tremendous long-term relation­ship spanning thousands of hours of great football," NFL commissioner Paul Tagliabue said. "It's very difficult to have that end, as it was very difficult to interrupt a similar relation­ship with CBS in 1993. 
"We also enjoyed a special association with Ted Turner and his talented group of TV 
professionals," he said. 
After watching the NBA dou­ble its money in its television contract in November, NFL owners wanted the same result. And they got it. 
Along with the contracts signed by CBS and Fox on Monday, the NFL will take in at least $17.6 billion from the four networks over the next eight years, a $2.2 billion yearly average. The previous deal, which expires next month, paid the league $1.1 billion a year for four years. 
ABC made the dramatic announcement on "World News Tonight," when a correspon­dent said: "ABC gets Monday night, NBC gets nothing." 
CBS and Fox struck their deals Monday, with CBS paying $4 billion for eight years of AFC football and Fox paying $4.4 billion for the NFC. 
The Walt Disney Co. will pay $1.15 billion a year for "Monday Night Football" and games on Sunday night, 137 percent more than ABC, ESPN and TNT paid for the same games under the last contract, industry sources told The Associated Press. 
ABC also gets the rights to three Super Bowls. The league and network are still discussing the possibility of moving the start time for "Monday Night Football" to 8 p.m. 
CBS already agreed to pay $500 million a year for the AFC and two Super Bowls. Fox will pay $550 for the NFC and three Super Bowls. 
The new agreements with ABC and ESPN -owned by Disney-and CBS and Fox pro­vides for rights fees at guaran­teed levels through the 2005 season. While the contracts are firm for the first five years, the NFL can reopen the contracts before the 2003 season. 
TNT, a division of Time Warner Inc.'s Turner Broadcasting System, has been showing NFL games on Sunday nights for the first half of the season since 1990. 
"TNT is very strong and we've made substantial invest­ments in programming, both entertainment and sports," Turner Broadcasting said in a statement. "In looking at the NFL numbers, we weren't pre­pared to change our economic model for TNT or our affili­ates." 
TNT balked when it was asked to pay $295 million to retain its half of the Sunday night package, a TV industry source said on the condition he not be identified. TNT had paid $124 million a year in the pre­vious deal. 
While employees reported a tense and gloomy mood at NBC and ABC as they awaited their fate, there was nothing but good news at "Black Rock," CBS' headquarters. Even the guards wore hats bearing the slogan "NFL on CBS." 
"To know that we're back in the NFL is a real relief," said CBS Sports president Sean McManus, whose network fell to No. 3 after losing the NFL to Fox four years ago. 
This is the second big blow this month to NBC, which is los­ing "Seinfeld" at the end of the season and could lose "ER." 
But NBC should not experi­ence the disastrous freefall CBS experienced after losing the NFL in 1993. NBC still has a strong sports lineup, including the NBA, Olympics, baseball, golf and tennis. 
"NBC is probably the 

A recent survey in Fortune'" magazine ranked Deloitte & Touche 14th on their inaugural list of 100 Best Companies to Work for in America. 
Growth, opportunity, and success in your career are bound to happen faster in a creative, energized environment that empowers you to reach your professional goals. As you compare the advantages offered by various companies, give some thought to the balanced focus and limitless possibilities that brought Deloitte &: Touche LLP to our status on this prestigious list. 
"Our goal is to create a workplace that provides superior client service through dedicated profession­als who are provided exciting challenges and the flexibility to balance those challenges with their personal lives."]. Michael Cook, CEO. 
At Deloitte &: Touche, we are as passionate about our people maintaining a satisfying work/life balance as we are about superior client service. We've proven it is not only possible, but profitable to do both. When you study the outstanding array of pro­gressive employee benefits and initiatives that can help you balance personal and professional priori­ties, you'll understand why we have one of the best retention rates among professional services firms. 
Our annual growth rate of over 23% creates 
tremendous advancement opportunities, while our 
7.4 billion dollar global organization provides the resources, choices and support you need for long term success. Extraordinary growth in our Chicago office demands that we attract and retain a cadre of promising financial professionals eager to build notable careers and play a role in our dynamic future. 
Explore the rewarding opportunities in Tax, Accounting & Audit and Enterprise Risk Services. 
Our National Deloitte & Touche Partners will be conducting summer intership interviews for students attending the University of Notre Dame on Feb. 5th & 6th, 1998. 
Why shouldn't you begin your career with a company that understands the value of working with you to attain your goals? Please visit the Career & Placement Office to schedule a time to interview with us. 
If unable to attend on-campus interviews, please send/fax/e-mail your resume to: Deloitte &: Touche LLP, Attn: Molly Freeman, 180 N. Stetson, Chicago, IL 60601. FAX: 312/946-2778 E-mail: mfreeman@dttus.com 
Visit our website at www.dttus.com 
In addition to being named one of the 100 Best Companies to Work for in America by Fortune* magazine, we have been recognized by Workforce and Working Mother for our innovative work/life balance programs, and by Computerworld and Information Week for 
use of technology in the workplace. Deloitte 
&: Touche is an equal opponunity employer. 
We recruit, employ, train, compensate, and 

promote without regard to race, creed, color, 
national origin, age, gender, sexual 

orientation, marital statuS, veterans status 
or disabilities. .,c... , .• 
~­

-
.. 
.. 
Sprcialto Thr Obsrrver 
ATLANTA, Ga. 
Former Notre Dame women's 

soeeer all-American Cindy 
Daws has been named the 21st 

recipient of the Honda­
Broderick Cup. 
The award is presented 

annually to the nation's out­
standing collegiate woman ath­
lete as part of the year-long 
llonda Awards Pmgram. which 
recognizes collegiate athletic 
aehievmnent among women. 
The announcement and pre­sentation were made Monday at the 21st annual Collegiate Woman Athlete of the Year Dinner in Atlanta, Ga., site of the 199H NCAA Convention. T h e w i n rw r of t he II o n d a­Broderick Cup reflects not only individual athletic achieve­ments. but also embodies the ideals of team contribution. scholastic endeavor. school and community involvement, and those personal characteristics that an~ reflected in the philos­ophy of intercollegiate athlet­ics. 
The Northridge, Calif., native was a f'inalist for the soccer llonda Award in 1993, 1994 and 1995. Daws was chosen by a national vote involving more than ROO NCAA-member schools. She was selected from the nine other llonda Award winners from their respective sports for the 1996-97 school year. Among the other finalists for the award were Tennessee basketball player Chamique lloldsdaw, Hawaii volleyball player Angelica Lungquist, Stanford tennis player Lilia Osterloh and USC swimmer Kristine Quance. 
page 26 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
• WOMEN's SOCCER 

NO's Daws claims best female collegiate athlete award 
"This is more speeial to me than any award that I've ever been given because it recog­nizes me as a well-rounded person," said Daws. "It recog­nizes the challenges of being a student-athlete in a truly colle­giate atmosphere and balanc­ing the demands of the student­athlete. All of the past winners have become so successful in what they've done and have achieved such great things. To be considered among them is amazing." 
Daws is the third consecutive Big East conference student­athlete to win the Honda­Brodnrick Cup, following Connncticut women's basket­ball players Jennifer Rizzotti in 1995-96 and Hebecca Lobo in 1994-95. Past winners of the Honda-Broderick Cup have included basketball gold medalists Lobo. Dawn Staley and Cheryl Miller, soccer gold medalist Mia Hamm, softball gold medalist Lisa Fernandez, swimming goal medalist Tracy Caulkins, and track and field gold medalist Jackie Joyner­Kersee. 
During Daws' four years at Notre Dame from 1993-96, the Irish compiled an 87-8-3 record. She scored the biggest 

·goal in Notre Dame history, connecting on a free kick in triple overtime in the 1995 NCAA title game against Portland to give the Irish a 1-0 victory and their first NCAA national championship. She ended her career with a school­record 61 goals and 6 7 assists for a school-record 189 points. A three-time All-American, Daws became the first Notre Dame soccer player to win the IIermann Trophy and the Missouri Athletic Club player of the year award, both given annually to the outstanding col­legiatn player. 
"This a great honor for Cindy and something that she cer­tainly deserves," said Notre 
Dame  head  coach  Chris  
Petrucelli.  
"She  put  Notre  Dame  

women's soccer on the map when she first arrived here and has made our tnam one of the premier programs in the coun­try. Without Cindy Daws, we would never have had the suc­cess we've had in the '90s." 
Upon her arrival as a fresh­man in 1993, Daws led the Irish to the(r first-ever NCAA appearance and was the only freshman to earn all-America honors. As a sophomore, she recovered from a broken foot that she suffered while playing with the U.S. national team to finish second in the balloting for both the Hermann Trophy and the MAC award while lead­ing the Irish to their first NCAA championship game appear­ance. 
She also was a finalist for the IIermann and the MAC award as a junior despite missing the first four games of the season recovering from foot surgery. She was named the offensive MVP of the NCAA semifinals and final with her goal against Portland. While becoming Notre Dame's all-time leading scorer as a senior, Daws was named the most outstanding player of the Big East champi­onship and led the Irish to their third straight NCAA title game appearance. She capped off her career by claiming the 

IIermann Trophy and MAC women's soccer professional award. league, leading hnr tnam to the Daws currently plays for league's playoff semif'inals 
Suzuyo FC in the Japanese which will be played Thursday. 

Let your dream job .com to you. 
Here's how CareerPath's Resume Connection can work for you. Create your resume online (with our help) and have potential employers, across the country, see your qualifications in our confidential database. Then, we'll e-mail you if the employer is interested in having you consider the job. It's free. It's easy. And, it's agreat way to learn about opportunities, whether or not you're actively looking for ajob. Visit CareerPath's Resume Connection on chicago.tribune.com/career today. 


<fhira!lO [ribune 
CLASSIFIED 
IN PRINT • ONLINE ANYTIME 
The Marketplace That Means Results. 
@careerPath.com 
Where employers and employees click. 

------~-~--~-­
Wednesday, January 14, 1998 The Observer • TODAY MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN 

MIKE PETERS 

MOTHER GOOSE & GRIMM 

DILBERT 

JUST BECAU5E YOU ~ 
" 

GUESSED A HUNDRED c5 COIN FLIPS IN A. ROW ~ OOE.SN'T MEt:>.N YOU'RE ~ P5YCHlC. COINCIDENCES t 
0 
00 1-\APPE.N. ~ 
·~ 
w 
l 

~--------~--~--------~~L-------------~~~-----J 

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 25 Extra added detractron?
1 Junk E-marl 
32 H.S. math 

5 Good engrne 
33 Hot

sounds 
34 Vrce­

1o Polrce cry 
36 Bactena­

14 Trarnp 
rnhrbrtrng drug 15 Cause of an 
39 French 1839-42 war 
nobleman 16 Grggler of 40 ·wartmg for Sesame Street Letty" playwnght 11 Telephone 41 Run---· of button (vrolate) 18 Paglraccr · 42 Name on over ban tone 75 whodunrts 
44 Comrc screech predecessor at 45 Pans attractron NBC 49 Alphabetrc 
20 Pleasantly 19 Carson s 
sequence drunk. so to 50 Veto speak 51 Make a mistake 23 ·wrnnre-the-58 Japanese soup Pooh baby 59 lranran VI P 's 24 chr ch·uan 60 Harrdo 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
COeE.OMENISYRUP U P 0 N N A M E H 0 U S E ,_{~~ G L E J I ~ A S H E R OSS.EDO.OBVERSE 
~~~·LEM­
0 L 0 G 0 T 0 E S T R I 0 A N N A 0 D E S E M E R 
C E D~ 11""'P S A L M
I L A N 
NEWWORL~._f.~ 
-ACE.SCRIM PLAY E~~·E E , • ...,_"',!'
0  U I  J  A  P E C 0~ B  I  L  L  
P  I  N 0  N  E V  I  L  L 0  S E  
E S  T  E S  D A  L  E  T A E E  

62 Art patron --Kahn 63 Hawley's tariff act co-sponsor 64 58-Across ingredrent 65 Call from the mrnaret 66 Poet dramatized by Goethe 67 Shortly 
DOWN 1 Sound at the movres 2 "Now you see it, now you don't"' 3 Skilled 4 Big Apple museum, for short. with "the" sWitches' brews , 6 Well-rnformed about 7 Prize of the Nrbelung a Bankrupt 9 Peanut butter 
SCOTT ADAMS 
l CALL SEVEN ROTATIONS 
FOLLOWED BY 
INEXPL lCI\e,LE 1-\0\/E.R.ING 1\ND HEN NOISES. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75a: per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
page 27 

YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aries:Today you arc at the cen­ter of The Happening, possibly even the cause of all that happens. The Leo Moon adds a party atmosphere to the driving force or Mars. You attract people who can match your pace. 
Taurus:Today you may feel like you bought a one-way ticket for the Voyage of the Damned. You seem to be surrounded by unpleasant people and acts of meaningless antagonism. Stop and think about this -perhaps it's just your own bad trip. 
Gemini:Whclher by phone, inter­net, or face to face, this is a day to Network like crazy. You don't need to be carrying a message just to check in and say hello. Keeping yourself in circulation will pay off in a big way. 
Cancer:Today may be more of a day to make The Arrangement than it is to see the result. You are com­fortable with organizational tasks and offidal business. Someone else can learn a lot from watching you. 
Leo:When the Moon is in Leo's house, it becomes The Towering Inferno. You are hot stuff today, even for a fire sign. If you reign in your arrogance, you could be unstoppable for the next few days. 
Virgo: Keeping yourself busy and in constant motion has a Double Edge. You may get a lot accom­plished, but you do so at the risk of losing yourself. Daydreaming is both productive and healthy today. 
Libra:Go and introduce yourself to The People Next Door today. A larger sense of community begins in your own neighborhood. Creative outreach can be a contagious force. 
Scorpio:The entire human race feels like A Family Divided today_. Focus on the self only enhances and aggravates the differences. Set aside your own concerns as much as possible and try to be a healing force. 
Sagittarius:Today people could call you The Temp based on how quickly you do one job and go on to the next one. You are light on your feet, a moving target, a verb instead of a noun. Efficiency is your middle name. 
Capricorn:You may be eager to Hurry Sundown. but you are stuck in the oppressive glare of a day that seems to last forever. An unsound business practice makes everyone's life difficult. A shortage of some­thing vital slows time to a crawl. 
Aquarius:The Leo Moon brings a Burning Secret to your otherwise free and open life. Silence can be a terrible burden, even if you have only the best reasons for it. Sudden changes in your environment can affect everything. 
Pisces:You feel like a Silhouette today, a fiat moving shape with no substance. If you go looking for attention, you may attract the wrong kind. Come out of the shad­ows before inviting someone else into your world. 


Wanted: Reporters, photographers and 
editors. Join The Observer staff. 
-
.. 
-, 

choice 10 Working again 11 Jar-­12 Single-named 
supermodel 13 Like frrst-place medals rn 
Grenoble 21 Mauna--­22 Nurmr, the 
Flyrng Finn 25 Cotton down 26 Yukon home 27 Gives over 28 Demographer's 
reg ron 
29 Sunrise to sunset to· sunrise. e.g. 
30 Feminist 
Germaine 31 First name in skrn care 
32 Simile's center 35 Quiz 
37 Time for the werewolf alert 38 Out on-­
43 Che, formally 46 Collect, as volunteers 


47 Tomcat 48 Combo bet at 
Belmont 51 Irish name part 52 Logo at Arthur 
Ashe Stadium 53 Austen heroine 

54 Santa Fe Trail stop 55 Certain insurers 56 Nutcase 57 Acctg. principle 58 Kiwi's extinct cousin 61 Jollity 

The Observer  Make checks payable to: and mail to:  The Observer P.O. BoxQ  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and  D Enclosed is $85 for one academic year  
events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community.  D Enclosed is $45 for one semester  

Name __________________________________________ __ 
Join the more than 13,'000 readers who have Address _________________________________________
found The Observer an indispensible link to the 
City---------------State ____Zip-___________
two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Football 


SPORTS 
page 28 Wednesday, January 14, 1998 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll

-
Women string together four conference wins 
By BILL HART the Irish defeated the Dons 62­Sports Writer 4 7 for their lirst win since Dec. 
13. The team was paced by 

As Notre Dame's women's senior guard Mollie Peirick, basketball squad approaches who scored 17 points and the midpoint of its regular sea­added nine rebounds in the vic­son, one has to be impressed by tory. the results. 
Three days later, the Irish 
Despite ended 1997 with their lirst con­tough losses ference victory of the season, a to Big East 66-46 win at Pittsburgh. After r i v a I s holding a slim four-point lead Connecticut after halftime, Notre Dame and Hutgers. pulled away with a 14-2 run in the Irish have the first live minutes of the sec­pulled off ond half. their own In the win, junior guard share of Sheila McMillen led the team 
.. upsets. including a dramatic with 17 points. The team then victory over Purdue. Entering traveled to Washington, D.C., the bulk of the conference on .Jan. 6, defeating schedule, the team hopes to Georgetown 69-44 in another keep the momentum that it outstanding defensive perfor­gaint~d over the holidays. mance. Freshman Kelley "Those games were very Siemon led four Irish players important." senior Kari with double figures as she Hutchinson said about the recorded her first career dou­semester break. "Of course, ble-double with 13 points and any game in the Big East is 11 rebounds. On the other end important at this point." of the court, a stining defense While most students were forced the Jloyas to convert able to relax over the holidays, only 21.3 percent of their shots. the Irish continued to pile up In the final week of the holi­more victories. Notre Dame day break, Notre Dame extend­posted career-highs of 19 with 6:02 left in the second half our defense," head coach began its holiday schedule after ed its winning streak with two points and 11 rebounds for her before the Red Storm scored 19 Muffnt McGraw said. "During Christmas when San Francisco more victories. On Jan. 8, the lirst career double-double. Two of the final 23 points of the the break, though, we held four visited the .Joyce Center on Dec. team defeated Miami 75-47 to days later, the Irish coasted to game. opponents to under 50 points, 28. In the linal scheduled non­post its third straight confer­a 77-57 road win over St. "One of the things that we and the other to under 60. 
conference game of the season, ence win. Freshman Huth Hiley .John's. Notre Dame led 73-31-l really needed to wcirk on was see IRISH I page 23 


• MEN's BASKETBAll 

Irish fall to St. John's, UConn, Pitt, rebound against Rutgers 
By JOE CAVATO over Hutgers Sunday. Assistant SportS Editor The Connecticut Huskies, thn highest ranked team in the Big East, pounded Notre Dame 84­
While most students were taking a break 58, and the team could not recover for the from learning and work, the Notre Dame bas­next home game when it hosted Pittsburgh. ketball team did a lot of learning over Macleod's squad opened the Big East season Christmas break. with a road victory over Pittsburgh on Dec. 6. 
John Macleod and his squad finished non­However, Pat Garrity's 19-point, 15-rebound conference play with wins over Florida performance against the Panthers at the Joyce International and Drexel, pushing their non­Center on Jan. 6 was not enough as tho Irish conference record to 6-2 with road losses to suffered a disappointing 72-61 loss. Marquette and Indiana. The Blue and Gold Notre Dame finally got back on track this then got a dose of Big East Conference play past Sunday when the team took advantage of and learned where they were and needed to Garrity's 32-point performance against go. Rutgers which sits at the bottom of the Big 
The Hed Storm of St. John's ended the four East Seven. 
The Observer/John Daily 

game winning streak and put the Irish into a slide before they recovcretl with a 91-76 winWyche scored a career-high 20 points in the loss to St. John's. 

see GARRITY I page 23 


.. 
Men's Baskerball Hockey, ar Wesr Virginia, 
ar Bowling Green, 
aJ •Daws claims national award 
Tomorrow, 7 p.m. 

January 24, 7 p.m. 
• ...... 
see page 26 Women's Baskerball 
Swimming and Diving, ar 
•Hockey team goes 3-2-1 over break
vs. Wesr Virginia, Kalamazoo,

sri' ~ riJ 
'\:...-Tomorrow, 7 p.m. see page 24 Tonighr, 7 p.m. 
~ 






