
------~-­
• The world remembers Princess Diana on • "Titanic" may set new records beginning tomor­
Monday
the first anniversary of her death. 

row with the release of the home video. See this and movie reviews in Movie Scene. 
AUGUST 31,

World &Nation • 5 
1998

Scene • 9 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOl XXXII NO.6 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 

Saferide expanded to Thursdays, waiver mandatory 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY dents who need a ride back to they bear in using the service. wanted to be able to provide A"isranr New' EJiror campus from off-campus Cesaro also pushed to them with the Saferide ser­establishments if they are 'SAFERIDE IS A SERVICE expand the program. In addi­vice." This ynar's SafnridE~ pro­unable to drive or are without tion to hours on Friday and The program gives students
FOR THE STUDENTS, 

gram looks nothing likn tho transportation. Saturday from 10 p.m. to 3 free transportation back to program of tlw past. To participate in Saferide, AND WE WANTED TO MAKE a.m., students can now use campus using a University­In arrordanrn with his cam­students must sign a release IT MORE EFFECTIVE FOR THE Saferide on Thursdays from provided van. To usc it, stu­paign platform, student body form on registration day. The 10 p.m. until 2 a.m. dents call Saferide and give
STUDENTS.'

pn~sidnnt l'etnr Cesaro start­waiver protects the University Cesaro and student body their name, location and Pd planning the changes to legally from being charged vice president Andrea Selak number of students needing a Saf'nridE~ wlwn his administra­with negligenee if an accident requested the change because ride back to campus.
PETER CESARO

tion took ol'l'ice April l. occurs. As long as the van is of the number of students Additional changes to the "Saf'nridn is a snrvicfl for the in good condition and the dri­who leave campus on program to be phased in
pie out, according to Saferide

studPnts and we wanted to ver is competent, a student Thursday nights. through September include
coordinator Mark Donahey.

mako it more reliable and cannot charge the University "Notre Dame and Saint paying the students who help
The waiver is also used to

pff'nctivn for the students," with negligence. Mary's students go out on run the Saferide program
make students aware of the 

CE~saro said. The waiver makes a more Thursday nights," Cesaro each night.
risks in certain activities and

The fn~n snrvic:e is for stu-reliable operation to serve said. "It's really like another Staff writer Sarah Seglie
the responsibilities which

students better and help peo-day of the weekend and we contributed to this report. 
Malloy to chair athletic substance abuse commission 
Special to The Observer 
Univnrsity president Father Edward Malloy has 
lHH'n appointed c.hair of a nnw national commission on sub­stance abuse in ath Intics. 
Tlw National Commission on SubstancP i\busn and Sports will exarninP ruiPs, n•gulations and conduct in profnssional. Olympic, collegia t.n and high school sports with n~spnct to iiiE~gal drugs, 


pnl'ornwncEH'nhancing drugs, Malloy 
alcohol and tobacco in the flrst comprnlwnsivn analysis of thn su~ject. 
Fornwd by thn National Center on Addiction and SubstancE~ /\bust~ (CAS/\) at Columbia University, tlw commission will nxamine these issues specifl­cally in football, hockey, baseball, men's and women's basketball, tennis, track and field, soccer and golf. · 
Commission members joining Malloy will include Wille Davis, president of All Pro Broadcasting and captain of the Green Bay Packers in Super Bowls I and II; Joe Paterno, head football coach at Pennsylvania State University; Rep. J.C. Watts, R­Okla., a former quarterback at the University of Oklahoma; and Sen. Paul Wellstone, D-Minn. 
"The star athlete has become the ultimate i\mnriean hero, a role model for youth," said Joseph Califano, CASA's president and former U.S. secretary of health, education and welfare. 
"When any of these men and women athletes abuses drugs and alcohol, he or she sends a mes­sage to our kids that such behavior is acceptable ­even admirable," he said. "The rules governing profnssional, Olympic and collegiate sports should sd the standard for America's youth. The purpose of this commission is to clarify policies and encour­agn tlw highnst of' standards for all teams and play­Prs." 
Tlw commission will explore the extent and naturn of tho link bctweon substanee abuse and sports; nxamirw the rules, regulations and practices in placE~ for dealing with athlete's substance abuse; and point tlw way to morn eiTectivo policies and practices to minimize abuse, prevent and treat the problem, and promote h.ealthy messages, particu­larly to young pEwple. 
This will be the third CAS/\ commission chaired by Father Malloy, who previously headed its com­missions on substance abuse among high school students and on college eampuses. 
Ci\SA is the only national organization that brings together under one roof all the professional disci­plines needed to study and combat all types of sub­stance abuse. 
The Countdown Begins ... 

The bookstore prepares for the long lines and crowds that come with football weekends. jeffrey Barrick (above) and Wendy ]o Martin (right) paint the win­dows for the opening game against the defending national champion Michigan on Saturday. It takes them about three hours to complete the design, which is.from a t-shirt on sale at the bookstore. 
Photos by The Observer/Kevin Dalum 




page 2 
• INSIOE CoLUMN 



Abort, Retry, Fail? 
After reading C.R. "Teo" Teodorothe Inside Column 
Illustrator
in Friday's issue about an Arts and Letters major trying to upgrade his comput­er, I know why the techies laugh at us for not knowing how to use computers and why they moan when they are called to fix the problem. 

I· 
First. I'm also an Art & Leisure ... uh,

I 
Letters major. I've never taken an formal computer science or applications course but I've messed around enough computers to know what to do an·d what not to do. 
Why would you use a two-year-old machine to run Windows 98? I could only hope that the processor is fast enough, there's enough space left on the hard drive, and that there's enough RAM to accommo­date whatever is being run. 
By today's standards, even my computer which is only one year old, is pretty slow compared to what's already out there. 
Another question is how can you possibly blow up your computer if you have been assembling it for two years? I know how to assemble a computer and load the software on it, and I know you never format your hard drive to make it faster. 
If you want to make your computer faster, try defragging it, clear up space on the hard drive, put in more RAM, or just get a faster processor. Formatting a disk will just erase everything on it. 
If you really want to format your hard drive, you better have a boot disk. Working around computers has taught me to always have a boot disk available, just in case of hard disk failure or a boot sector virus. But this is what this person wrote: "So I backed up my files, exited to DOS, typed in 'format c:,' and pressed enter." 
Why bother backing up your hard drive if you are going to format it, unless.you have about 2,000 3 1/2 floppy disks or a Zip or Jaz drive? 
Also, if you are going to format a hard disk, please at least make it a system disk (not necessary if you plan to make it a slave drive) by typing "format c:ls." The "/s" switch will make your hard disk a system disk that you can boot off of. 
Also, one last thing I want to stress is never@%#?! play around with the registry unless you really know what the heck you are doing. If you screw that up. then· you're on your own. I wouldn't bother messing with the registry myself, primarily because I don't need to! 
I just hope that I helped redeem Arts and Crafts ... uh, Letters majors in the eyes of eomputer science and engineering majors out there. 
Simply put, the computer is only as intelli­gent as the person using it. If you screw up, then expect the machine to do the same. And always, always ... if you ever need help with a eomputer and don't know what to do, then please ask someone who does. That's what the techies get paid for. You might as well make them earn their pay. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column 
are those of the authur and not necessarily 
those ofThe Observer. 
• TOOAY's STAFF 
News Scene Bill Uniowski Mike Vanegas Colleen McCarthy Graphics Finn Pressly Jenny Schaaf 
Sports Production Bill Han Anthony Bianco Viewpoint Lab Tech Eddie Llull Jeff Hsu 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday c:xcc:pr during exam and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc: Associated Press. A\1 reproduction righrs are reserved. 

The Observer· INSIDE Monday, August 31, 1998 


~;putside the ~~!!!~ 
-----0 
Letters reveal UNC knew about coach's inappropriate action 
wrote. "This is altogether inappropri­Letters fro n the North Carolina 
CHAPEL HILL, N.C. 

ate." Department o · Athletics to the father 
The letter also calls Dorrance's May of one of the J lain tiffs in a $12 million 
dismissal of Jennings from the team sexual haras! ment lawsuit acknowl­
"ill-timed, and he apologizes for the edge "inapp ·opriate" conduct by 
untimely discussion during exam women's S· ccer coach Anson 
period." Dorrance. 
Keller, a UNC standout from 1993­Louis Varc tetto, attorney for ex­
96, is also named as a plaintiff in the UNC players Melissa Jennings and 
lawsuit. However, she is not men­Debbie Kelle1 , released a statement tioned in either letter from the Thursday, wl ich included copies of department. letters wriW n by former Athletics Keller's father, Hon, declined to
The second letter, written by
Director Johr Swofl'ord and current comment on the specifics of the law­
Baddour and co-signed by Dorrance
Athletics Diret tor Dick Baddour. suit when reached at his home in
on June 9, 1998, dealt with the sexual 
Keller and rennings filed the suit Naperville, Ill., late Thursday night. "I
harassment allegations.
Tuesday in U.~ District Court against think things will take their course and
"While Coach Dorrance strongly
Dorrance and tL ' university. people will have the chance to find
denies that he has ever discussed an
In a letter date«.. 1\Jov. 13, 1996, and out more when the time comes," he
individual team member's sexual
addressed to Craig Jennings, said.
activity in a one-on-one discussion,
Swofford discusses Melissa Jennings' Varchetto said in a telephone inter­
Coach Dorrance has acknowledged
allegations that Dorrance encouraged view Thursday that the University did 
that he participated in group discus­
underage drinking during Jennings' investigate claims made by Keller and
sions of a jesting or teasing nature
recruiting trip tt.. UNC. The letter also Jennings against Dorrance.
with soccer team members," Baddour 

• CORNEll UNIVERSITY Parents file lawsuit after son's death 
Cornell University is being charged with negligence in the death of Peter Matzke, who fell in Cascadilla Gorge in August 1997. Matzke's parents, Robert Matzke and Barbara Ann Turecek, are suing Cornell for $3 million, according to a complaint filed with Broome County Supreme Court on August 7, 1998. The suit alleges that the university "failed to exercise reasonable care to pre­vent injury or death to users of the premises" and "allowed the premises to be in a latent, dangerous condi­tion, maintained a dirt path and/or permitted its exis­tence and was otherwise negligent in failing to maintain the property in a safe condition." Matzke's parents claim Cornell failed to prevent access to the gorge from the wooded area behind the law school, to enclose the gorge, to maintain a fence or barrier between the gorge and wooden premises and to adequately warn users of the danger of the property. "We will obviously deny these allegations," said Nelson Roth, assistant university coun­sel. 
• UNIVERSITY Of NEBRASKA 

Student cited after fatal collision 
A 68-year-old Lincoln, Neb., man was killed in a head-on collision Thursday morning when a pickup truck driven by a UNL student crossed the center line. The driver of the pickup was cited for misdemeanor motor vehicle homicide. The county may file charges against him as early as Friday. Alcohol is not suspected in the accident. At 5:45 a.m. Thursday, Or Gazarov was driving east on Cornhusker Highway on his way to Telex Communications, where he . worked on the production floor assembling electronics. But Gazarov never made it. Just east of an intersection, a Dodge Dakota crossed the center line and hit Gazarov's car, Lincoln Police Sgt. Ann Heermann said. Apparently Gazarov saw the truck move into his lane, because he pulled off onto the shoulder to avoid hitting it. But it wasn't enough. The truck, carrying three people, still hit Gazarov's Mercury Sable head-on, crushing the entire front end and killing Gazarov. ' 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA Athletic director gets pay raise 
University of Arizona Athletic Director Jim Livengood receives the highest base salary of any sports administra­tor in the Pacific 10 Conference, thanks to a new contract and an $11,000 annual pay raise. And his job is secure for at least another live years. University of Arizona President Peter Likins, whose annual pay is $95,000 less than Livengood's, said the athletic director's new deal was based on both market demand and previous accomplish­ments. Earlier this month, the Arizona Board of Regents approved Livengood's new five-year agreement, worth $1.45 million plus possible bonuses that could total an additional $217,500. The contract's value is competitive for Division 1 public· universities, Likins said. "It is the reality of the marketplace," he said. The revised agree­ment includes a yearly base salary of $250,000, plus another $40,000 for participating in other UA activities such as fundraising, speaking engagements and public appearances -an $11 ,000-per-year increase over his pre­vious contract. 
• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 
Defense calls first witness in rape trial 
The defense called its first witnesses Wednesday morning after a motion to acquit was denied at the trial of a former Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity member accused of rape. John Hichard Tate, 25, is charged with third-degree sexual abuse after another Iowa State student, Kara Renee Elsasser, junior in interior design, aecused Tate of raping her in December .1996. Defense attorney Guy Cook asked the court to approve a motion of acquittal because, he said, earlier testimony from the state's witnesses did not provide enough information for the jury to make a decision. In par­ticular, Cook noted that Elsasser does not remember any specifics of her encounter with Tate. Cook said the state's key witness, SAE member Erich Grashorn, was inconsistent in his testimony. Grashorn testified Tuesday that he heard Tate tell Elsasser she did not give her consent. Cook said Grashorn had told defense attorneys before the trial that he did not hear Tate say that to Elsasser. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
NATIONAL Weather
5 Day South Bend Forecast 

The Accu-Weather®forecast for noon, Monday, Aug. 31
AccuWeather 00 forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 
H L 

Monday ~ 83 65 Tuesday ~ 82 64 
FRONTS: 

...,.....--.,.-........._..._ ....-....­
~ 
COLD WARM STATIONARY

Wednesday 83 61 
C 1995 Accu-Wea.lher. Inc. 
Prossure 

H L !Z] ~ -Q ~ c::::::l 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY

Thursday (f\ 79 59 
NATIONAL SUMMARY: Showers will move through southern Florida today, and Ungenng moisture will produce a mixture of light
Frid~y _/l~ 81 63 
rain in southern Virginia, North Carolina and western South Carolina this morning. The Northeast and Midwest will be seasonably cold today with some sunshine. Rain will dampen areas from western 
~..5'-"\\~·"'···,/"" ":..r~ 

Washington to northern California. 
Anchorage 59 46 Dallas 9B 72 Milwaukee 7B 59 Aspen BO 44 Detroit 7B 56 New York B4 66 Atlanta 90 70 Hutchinson 96 66 Orlando 94 74
4,~,Q86.foQ ¢-~ &1 
Boston 80 61 Las Vegas 79 49 Phoenix 108 87
Showers T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 82 58 Memphis 93 72 Seattle 88 56
Via Associated Press GraphicsNet 


Monday, August 31, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Law School grads clerk for Supreme Court justices 


Due date: Thursday, September I 0, 1998 $40 deposit with application (non-refundable if accept~d) 
Further Information 

Tom Kilroy, Student Co-chair, 271-190 I Sarah Kolasa, Student Co-chair, 4-2892 Rachel Tomas Morgan, Seminar Director, 1-5293 
Austin Powers 

Swingers 
The Beatles
The Spice Girls 

Wisdom of Yoda




Monday-Friday, 

t' 
August 31-September 4 
Notre Dame Room­2nd Floor LAFORTUNE STUDENT CENTER 98:30am-5:30pm 
VVWW.POSTERMART.COM 
ales. Bother are former clerks themselves -Schiltz for Scalia in 1986 and Kelley for retired Chief Justice Warren Burger in 1988. Another faculty member, Walter Pratt, professor of law, clerked for Burger in 1978. 
In addition. Richard Garnett, who clerked for Rehnquist in 1997, and Nicole Stelle Garnett, who will clerk for Justice Clarence Thomas in the 1998 term, have been appoint­ed to NDLS faculty positions and will begin teaching next year. 
"Supreme Court clerkships are the single most prestigious position that a recent law school graduate can be offered," Schiltz said. "Every year, hundreds of the best graduates from the best law schools apply for just 34 posi­tions. The vast majority of the clerkships go to the graduates of Harvard, Yale and a few other elite schools. For a law school the size of Notre Dame (with just 175 students per class) to have three graduates clerk at the Supreme Court in three years is virtually unheard 
0.f" 
The nine Supreme Court jus­tices each hire four clerks, except Rehnquist and John Paul Stevens, who choose to hire just three. 

, l l 
1 
Leonardo DiCaprio 


Head for the Hills! 
The Seminar 

•OtTers 
service work through various sites in Appalachia October 17-23, 1998 

•Is 
a one credit Theology course 

•Involves 
orientation & follow-up classes 

•Past 
participants in Appalachia Seminar are encouraged to apply as site coordinators 

•Presents 
opportunity to work, laugh, & learn with others 



Information Session 

Tuesday September 8, 1998 7:30-8:00 PM Center for Social Concerns 

Applications 

Available at the Center for Social Concerns 
Special to The Observer 
For the third time in three years a Notre Dame Law School graduate has been appointed to a Supreme Court clerkship. 
Rosemarie Nixon, a 1998 alumna from St. Louis, Mo., will begin clerking for Chief Justice William Hehnquist in the 1999 term after first serv­ing for a year as a clerk to Judge James Loken of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 8th Circuit. · 
Nixon follows 1994 graduate Anthony Bellia, Jr., who just completed a clerkship under Justice Antonin Scalia, and Amy Coney, a 1997 alumna, who will clerk for Scalia in the upcoming term. Nixon and Coney ranked first in their respective graduating classes. 
"We're really proud of our recent successes with placing Notre Dame lawyers into pres­tigious Supreme Court clerk­ships," said David Link, profes­sor and Matson Dean of the Law School. "It's gratifying that our students increasingly earn the opportunity to serve at' the pinnacle of the federal judicia­ry."· 
Patrick Schiltz and William Kelley, associate professors of law, coordinate clerkships for Notr.e Dame Law School gradu­
• 

page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Monday, August 31, 1998 

Parishioners create scholarship to honor pastor 
Special to The Observer 
Anonymous parishioners from the St. Margaret Mary Parish in Winter Park. Fla., have created an endowment fund for under­graduate scholarships at the University of Notre Dame in honor of their pastor. 
The Reverend Richard M. Walsh Scholarship was estab­lished to recognize rather Walsh's service to the parish for the past 13 years. The scholar­ship will be available to Notre Dame students whose high school careers have been distin­guished by academic achieve­ment, good character and leader­ship. Special preference first will be given to graduates of Bishop Moore High School in Orlando, Pia., and then to graduates of any other Diocese of Orlando high school. 

"We were looking for the per­fect way to honor rather Walsh for the Iovin~ service he has given to so many people in this diocese," one parishioner said. "What better way to do this for a priest from Ireland than to estab­lish an endowed scholarship at Notre Dame that will develop and educate the future Catholic lead­ers of this diocese and this coun­try." 
"We are most grateful to these donors for their beneficence," said University President Father Edward Malloy. "This scholar­ship is a remarkable way for 

D IN THE RHODES AND MARSHALL ScH0LA 
Donald Sniegowski will have afinal meeting to inform dates and the application process on 
T11esday, September I, 1998 
7:00p.m., **129 DeBartolo** 
Take part in one of 

Notre Dame's best traditions ... 




NDBOXING 
What? 

• 
Mentioned in Sports Illustrated last year 

• 
Started by Knute Rockne 


• 
Holds a major tournament each spring 

• 
Gives back to people who need it most 


How? 

• 
Find us at Activities Night Thes., Sept. 1 at the JACC 

• 
Join us for an informational meeting 


Wed., Sept. 2 at 4:00 in the Boxing Room (down the stairs, across the Football office 
intheJAcq 

• Work with us in a four week 
them to express their gratitude to Father Walsh for his dedication to the work ofthe Church." 
The Reverend Richard M. Walsh Scholarship is a compo­nent of Notre Dame's $767 -mil­lion "Generations" campaign. 
Announced last year, "Generations" is the largest fund­raising campaign in the history of Catholic higher education and the 12th largest capital campaign now in progress in American academe. 

RETREAT DATES: 
FORMS AVAILABLE: 
SIGN UP DEADLINE: 
CONTACT: 
A WEEKEND RETREAT EXPERIENCE GUIDED BY 
STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF An opportunity, in dialogue with others, to deepen your understanding of yourself, your values, you relationship with Christ, your experience of Christian community and service. 
OCTOBER 9-11, 1998 
AUGUST 31 THRU SEPT. 4 
Before 4:00 p.m. -Sept. 4 
Campus Ministry Office 1 03 Hesburgh Library 631-7800 
(?MPUS 
-
MINISTRY 

WELCOMES YOU BACK TO SCHOOL 
KICKOFF THE 1998 SEASON WITH COACH DAVIE'S QUESTION AND ANSWER SESSION FOR STUDENTS ONLY (student ID required to enter) 
MONDAY, AUGUST 31st 00 8 00 (EST)
7: • : pm 
JOYCE CENTER (enter through gates 1 and 2) 

programforbeg:i:n:n:er~s~t:h:i:s:fa:l:l!~----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
MATUBA 
~ Japanese Restaurant ~ 
Authentic, Healthy Delicious, The Artistry of Japanese Cuisine You're very special to Matuba. We would like to invite you to try our finest authentic Japanese cuisine, served in our din­ing room and sushi bar-taste our shrimp tern­pur, teriyaki steak, teriyaki salmon, teriyaki chicken, sushi, sashiml and vegetable sushi or many other traditional Japanese dishes. 
LU1ch Special-$95 IATe'~-$14$ 
1 -Beef Negimaki 1 -Teriyaki Chicken 2 -Egg Rolls 1 -Tuna Sushi 2 -Fried Rice 1 -White Fish Sushi 4 pc -California Rolls 1 -Salmon Sushi 4 pc-Cucumber Rolls 4 pc -Calijornia Rolls 1 -Miso Soup 8 pc -Tuna Rolls 1 -Salad 1 -Steam Rice plus Japanese 1 -Miso Soup Green Tea 1 -Salad 
May change weekly plus JapaneseGreen Tea 
Lunch  Dinner  
Sushi(13 pieces)  $6.95  $8.95  
Sushi (I 4 pieces  $7.95  $11.95  
Sushiveg.chicken(12pc)  $6.95  $8.95  
Sushi no raw !ish (13 pc)  $12.95  $12.95  
Sushi (16 pieces)  $12.95  $12.95  
Sushi Deluxe (21 pieces)  $16.95  $16.95  
Sushi & Sashimi combo  $18.95  $18.95  

plus Miso Soup Lunch:11-2 Mon-Fri Dinner: 5-9 Mon-Thurs.5-10 Fri·Sat 251-0674 Fish-Beef-Chicken 2930 E. McKinlev Ave. South Bend IN 


CLASSES ARE BEING OFFERED IN THE EVENINGS THROUGHOUT THE SEMESTER BEGINNING AUGUST 31ST 
Introduction to Photoshop 4.0 (mac/win) Introduction to Microsoft Word 97 (win) Introduction to Microsoft Excel 97 (win) Introduction to Microsoft Access 97 (win) Intermediate Microsoft Access 97 (win)  Introduction to Powerpoint 97 (win) Introduction to WordPerfect 8 (win) Introduction to ClarisWorks s.o (mac) Introduction to Microsoft Word 98 (mac) Increasing Your Net Worth (mac/win)  Search and Research the Internet (mac/win) Useful Windows Resources at ND (win) Papers & Projects in Word 97 (win) Introduction to Microsoft Excel 98 (mac) Introduction to Microsoft Powerpoint 98 (mac)  
REGISTER  FOR CLASSES ONLINE  AT  OUR  WEBSITE:  

www.nd.edu/-sctp 
o•
o• 
--~~ 

· Monday, August 31 , 1998 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS Taliban: 'Stone Clinton' 
1SI.AMABAD, Pakistan 
The n~elusivn leader of Afghanistan's Taliban army Mullah Mohammed Omar was Cfuoted as saying U.S. !'resident Bill Clinton should IH~ stonPd to death for bneoming involved with a woman who is not his wife. This ac~cording to a wnnkly nnwspapnr pub­lislwd by tlw militant Islamic group, llarakat ui-Ansar. Washington last ynar declarnd this groujJ a tl'rrorist organization. The newspa­llf'l', quoting Omar. said "Clinton is a con­l't~ssnd simwr and a had person." Huling out thP possibility Of holding IWgotiationS With Clinton. Omar was quotnd as saying, "It is ahsolutdy not possible to nngotiatn with such a pPrson and lw should be removnd (from (>OWl'I') and storwd to dnath. lfn is of bad char­acter." In strict Islam it is a capital ofl'ense to have sex outside~ of marriage and it is punish­air/!~ fry stoning. 
Train derails in Montana 
(;J.i\CIEH NATIONAL PAHK, Mont. 

Tlw main rail lirw between Seattle and Chieago was blocked Sunday by wreckage of a fhight train that derailr.d at the southern ndge of Glaeinr National Park. Burlington Nortlwrn Santa Fe train was hauling 82 cars of' wlwat and barley to Portland, Ore., when 27 of' tho ears derailed Saturday night, said eompany spokesman Gus Melonas. The cause was under invnstigation. No one was injured. Melonas said the line might be cleared late Sunday, but it would take another 24 hours to n~sunw normal traflie patterns. Burlington was rerouting its freight trains. Amtrak said it was forced to bus passengers between Shelby, which is east of' the park, and Spokane, WasiL, about 400 miles away. Spokesman Mark Magliari said the blocked route comes at pnak season and also as Amtrak accommo­datl~s customers who took the train because of a strike that shut down Northwest i\irlines. 
Netanyahu weathers threats 
.IEHUSALEM 

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and memlwrs of his Cabinet have been threatened by .!!~wish militants who want to derail peace talks with tlw Palnstinians, an aide to Netanyahu said Sunday. And lsnwl radio reportc~d that tlw Shin Bnt internal seeurity a!-(nru·y bdievns that the same militants have hatdwd plans to strike at the Temple Mount, !HlP of Islam's holiest sitos. Netanyahu has nwt intnnsivnly with Shin Bet agents over the past week sinen receiving the warnings. "ThPrn are reports of' plans by extremists, spnrifically .Jewish extrmnists, to hurt the primn ministPr, the defense minister, and otlwr officials as long as the peace process continues," Nntanyahu's spokc~sman Aviv Bushinsky told Channel 2. 

I 027.25 Composite 
-15.26 Volume:

8051.68 938,300,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
fUMI'AlS);: llrbi~U 1 ~11'U~t:Hd lli61IS I'IIBl 
Pt•nnnup Flnl I'Fli l6.H4 0.6750 :i.2SOO <.irupo R.ullo·Ailk ltc IH.4H 1.0625 6.8125 l';m:t'hu\ III.TIH" I'L'i 17.86 0.3125 2.0625 
Lftl lb.b7 0..1750 2.0250
~-~~~~:~l:~~Atm'll)l It: A IS.IH 0.7500 5.6B75 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS ~CN F.ncr~y tlroup MCN .J1.37 -8.()(](Kl 17.500 ~r l_l,~oc!,~~ -ADR 
Ul/D ·22.22 -1.2500 6.12511 MCE ·20.43 ·4.7500 18.500 MAI>f.CO·t\IJR MAD -20.00 -1.1875 4.750 Kt•rl .:lrctronlcs KNT .)9.00 -2.:1750 10.125 

COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 

Diana's sons mourn in private 
AFP Photo 

Mourners gather near the Pont d'Aima at the Flame of Uberty, which has become the temporary memorial to Princess Diana. 
AsSOCIATED PRESS II thanked people who have sent mes-slowly past, waving at Queen Elizabeth 
sages ofsympathy. -II, Prince Philip, the Queen Mother 
CRATHIE. Scotland "The que~nand the royal family, Elizabeth and two younger genera­
Princess Diana's sons, in Scotlandcon particularlythe Prince of Wales; Prince tions, who smiled and waved back. the eve of the anniversary of her death, William and Prince Ha.rry, would like to Prime Minister Tony Blair and his spent Sunday in private with their thank people for their messages and wife, Cherie, who are visiting Balmoral father, far from the strangers who kind gestures of sympathy at this sad CMUe for the weekend, also received a brought bouquets· by the hundreds to time and fQl' sharing·thelr reqlem­subdu~~d greeting. the gates of her London palace. brance of the Princess of Wales,'' the "The Scottish people are more 
''Hear our prayers for those grieving statement said. reserved than the British," said Robert the loss of a loved one in circumstances In. London, admirers of the princess Robertson, 27, standing outside the known to the world but only exper.i~ again brou~~t flowers.to her old home church. ''But Princess Diana was held enced by a few," said the Rev. Robert of Kensington Palace, a fragrant echo in as high regard here as in London." Sloan, presiding at the morning service of the mourning and the weeklong vigil At St. James's Palace in London, at Crathie church, near Balmoral that followed the princess's death on where Harry and William now live with Castle. Aug. 31, 199.7, Charles, Diana's former employees,and 
Diana's sons, Prince William, 16, and "I thoughfthete would be more flow· other members of the royal household Prince Harry, 13, sat in the front pew ers and more people here," said Liegh will take part on Monday in a service of on either side of their father, Prince O'Malley, 50, who came from suburban remembrance. Diana's body lay at St. Charlos. Essex county. "But it is wonderful to James's Palace before the funeral at 
The boys were at Bahnoral last year see everyone eoming from all over the Westminster Abbey. when they learned that Diana had been world to remember." Quiet dignity and privacy are very killed in a car erash in Paris. The royal Scores of well-wishers, strung along much the mood of family memorial family traditionally spends August in the tree-shaded approach to Crathie plans -and as f'ar removed as could the Scottish Highlands. church, waited quietly in the late sum­be from the massive funeral tolevised 
In a royal statement, Queen Elizabeth mer sun for the limousines to move for millions around the world Sept. 6. 
• PUERTO RICO 



Issue of statehood still divides citizens 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
DOHADO 

Activists on both sides of Puerto Hico's statehood issue cheered and jeered governors from several southern states Sunday as they prepared to meet with Central American leaders. 
"Yankee go home! Go your own way. We'll go ours," a woman shouted from a platform, surround­ed by hundreds of anti­state supporters at one side of the entrancr. to a resort hotel where ~he meeting was being held. 
Their pro-statehood counterparts on the other 
side of the entrance waved a massive flag bearing 51 stars. 
"We want the governors to know that here there are Americans who want state­hood and American citizen­ship," said Virgin Flores, one of several hundred statehood supporters. 
Gov. Pedro Hossello. who invited leaders from Central America and the Dominican Hepublic to join the meeting of the Southern Governors Association, has denied that he would use the forum to promote his pro­statehood agenda for the Caribbean island. 
Many officials question the wisdom of making a state of the mainly Spanish­speaking island, where two-thirds of people receive federal aid and the annual per eapita income is far below the national average. 
Gov. Kirk Fordice, H­Miss., indicated opposition to statehood, reflecting concerns among some in his party that the island would send mostly Democratic legislators to Washington. 
"It would diminish Republican strength in the United States," he said. "It would bring more non­English speaking 
Americans into the United States, and I think that's a big problem." 
Kentucky Gov. Paul Patton, a Democrat, appearing to favor state­hood, said language wasn't an issue. 
"Tho point is they should have the ability to elect members to the Congress and have input into the running of the nation," he told The Assoeiated Press. 
Hossello is the current chairman of the governors' assoeiation of 17 states and the territories of Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. The conference ends Tuesday. 
__..---~~ ----­





IEWPOINT 
page 6 os~ERVER Monday, August 31, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q. Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 
SAINT MARY's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AssiSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ...........•••.......... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Bren Huelar SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS............................ Sarah Dylag WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. jennifer Breslow 
Krisd Klirsch CoNTROLLER .......................•........... .Dave Rogero SA.JNT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan PHOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independem nc:wspape:r published by the: students of the University ofNoue Dame du Lac and Saine Mary's College. Ir does nor necessarily rdlc:cr the policies of the administration ofeither institution. The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor-in-Chief. Managing Ediror, Assisram Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns presem the views of the amhor.s, and nm necessarily chose of The Observer. Viewpoint space is available to all members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's communiry and to all readers. The free expression ofvarying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-53I3 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631"454I Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631"5323 · Systems 631-8839 Sports 63 I "4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene//Saim Mary's 631"4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoim.l @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 63I"5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/Generallnformation 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l @nd.edu 

• HE WOUlD HAVE HATED IT, BUT HE WOUlD HAVE DONE IT 

Football season brings expectations,questions, hope 
Today is the second annual celebration of what I declared last year to be an Irish Holiday. Dining hall tables are abuzz with speculation. On-line chat boards are 
. rife with heated debate. Classroom dis­cussions are littered with references to the upcoming feast. Today, the clock starts winding down. 

Kevin Patrick 

For this very Monday, outlined against a blue-gray September sky, signals the end of the famine -the final stage of our twelve step "off-season" program. Chris Meyers, Lee Courso, Kirk Herbstreet and ESPN's Gameday are coming. Alumni from across the globe (that's right, some jokers are flying overseas for the kickofl) are heading to South Bend this week. Heck, anyone with a ticket is coming (actually my classmate's father is coming even though he has no ticket -now that's devotion!). The fun begins today. 
Ah, to be banished from the bookstore by throngs of people not buying books, to line the walk from the Basilica to the Stadium, to know that all100 players pledged to "Play Like a Champion Today" by touching the sign before bursting into the stadium. to dance on wood planks to the most storied fight song, to pass unsuspecting peers and classmates through the stands, to cheer the Irish Guard with their feather and their skirts, to appreciate the humor of the Indiana State Police, to jam with the band at half­time, to lament that the band no longer does a "Tribute to Gloria Estefan," to explode as the players enter the stadium, to no longer have the ability to greet the opposition's starting line-up with that good Catholic warmth, to do push-ups in the stands, to throw marshmallows. to stand the whole game, to hold your hel­met high in salute of the students after a hard fought battle, to position yourself next to the "hottie" right before the alma mater is played. Life begins again. 
What a season we have before us. We have a new quarterback who is sure to create excitement among three year starter for the basketball squad. But a recent check of the roster reveals no John Day. It seems he prefers to be referred to by the surname of Owens. Based on a lack of team speed I hope he runs like Jesse Owens. Although if you see him, his physique looks more like Jesse "the Body" Ventura. 
This is the curtain call for senior Kory Minor who has been a great person and player at Notre Dame. As a freshman, he 
came in with all the 
accolades of a 
future Lawrence 

friend and foe. Jarious Taylor. He has
'In the grand scheme of 
Jackson brings a multi­always shown he is tude of talents to the things, Our Lady will capable of measur­field. He is untested, but not even blink an eye at ing up to those that is the beauty of it. expectations. The 
Right now, we can all these soon to be forgotten only remaining believe that he is invin­secondary characters on question is whether cible (almost, that Navy the coaches will cut
the stage that is Notre 
fumble was pretty ugly). him loose to terror-
But the point is, he has Dame.' the world by the tail and anything is possible. As for pressure, there shouldn't be any. He does not need to be a better scrambler than Tony Rice or a better passer than Joe Theisman. Think of Kevin McDougal. He will never be mentioned for either of the skills his predecessors had. Kevin McDougal was a winner. That's what he will always be remembered for. And that is all Jarious needs to be. 
There are many exciting new faces this year. You have people like Jim Jones, Jerry Wisne and Rob Mowl whose weight room exploits have reached near mythic proportions. Each one is on the Offensive Line and looking to make sure no one comes into our house and pushes us around. 
From the make up your mind file: The football team recruited a freshman by the name of John Day, from basketball powerhouse DeMatha Catholic in Hyattsville, Maryland where John was a ize opposing quar­
terbacks every play 

of every game. If I were calling the shots, I would have him harass the quarterbacks even during time-outs. 
Many questions will have to wait until the season begins before being answered: 
Can Joey Getherall (Notre Dame's ver­sion of The Little Engine That Could) stay healthy long enough to electrify the fans with his amazing speed? 
Will the University deny Bill Clinton's application to become a Notre Dame cheerleader? 
Will this year's senior class exit the way they entered -as the #1 class in the country? 
Will the dangerous label of unlimited potential be an albatross around their neck as the season wears on? 
Or will they explode on the field and shake off four years of a tumultuous tenure at Notre Dame? 
To get ready for this week, every mem­ber of the Notre Dame community should watch either "Hudy" (our own Father Bill Scotch is in it), "Knute Rockne: All­American" (starring the greatest presi­dent this century, Ronald Reagan), or NFL Films "Wake up the Echoes" (which doesn't even talk about that last decade and still brings chills). 
Many people bemoan the fall of Notre Dame. Coaches punching players, coach­es choosing poor phrases to fire said coaches, sex between cheerleaders (everyone knows college students never have done that before), and immoral and unscrupulous people wooing youths with gifts and sex -no not the President! I am talking about Kim Dunbar. Geez. 
In the grand scheme of things, Our Lady will not even blink an eye at these soon to be forgotten secondary charac­ters on the stage that is Notre Dame. Burn down the Administration Building, steal the life of a Knute Rockne, or enter the Big 10 and I may begin to worry about Notre Dame's future. To give this summer's grifters equal billing as those catastrophic developments would be a great exaggeration. 
As the song goes: 

What though the odds be great or small, Old Notre Dame will win over all,While her loyal sons go marching, Onward to victory ... 
That about says it all. 

Kevin Patrick is in the final year ofa JD/MBA degree. He can be found looking for a job on Wall Street. singing the Fight Song at the pep rallies or dancing to "December 1963 (Oh What a Night)" at ??? His column appears every other Monday. He can be e-mailed at kevin. d.patrick.l6@nd. edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• llUOTE OF THE DAY 
'Work is the curse of the drinking class.' 
-Anonymous 

• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
eeRNI&, I CAN'T /JUI&V& '/0{/'R& 


FOW?
PlJWNG 7H& PWG/ 

fJeCLAR&
/A/HATAM I gljp­

!JANK­
POSEP m/?0 AtJtUr !?UPTCY'r

\ 
\ 
~ ~.<@..'li~ 

,....._.~~---------------------------~~-------~~----~--~ 

VIEWPOINT 
MonJay, August 31, 1998-------------------OBSERVER page 7 
• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Bradley invitation a disservice to Notre Dame community 
I was shorkt~d to learn that formM 
U.S. Senator Bill BradlBy has been invited to leeture this fall at Notre Dame. I have been in the pro-life move· ment for 25 years and follow the voting patterns of our elected representatives. S1mator Bradley has a rHlarly 100 per­cent record of support for abortion, opposing even the ban on partial birth abortion, a barbaric operation the Catholic bishops have eallod "infanti­cide." 
I have bnen very interested in the Notm Dame community and. as an alumnus and former instructor at Notre Dame, my recent impression has been that the University is returning to its Catholic: roots. I understand that stu­dent attendance at Mass is good and that students are increasingly interest­od in their faith. 
And so it is a disservice to these stu­dents to invite a man with a solid pro· abortion rPcord to leeture at Notre Dame. The world will offer them myri­ad examples of leaders who exhibit no l'egari.l fur human lif-e and for the truths of the-Catholic Churdl. But our Catholie universities should offer them leaders who are true to .Judeo-Christian ethics, as woll as serviCf) to their eountry. Senator Bradley does not exemplify these values. 
l assume the University extended the invitation to Senator Bradley without checking his record on abortion. But in a society steeped in a "Culture of Death.'' as Pope John Paul II has called the twentieth century, we cannot afford to overlook a public figure's position on the moral issues. You would not invite a racist or a fascist to lecture, and nei­ther should you welcome one who sup­ports the violent killing of the unborn. 
While it is possible that, since leaving the legislature, Bradley has altered his stand on abortion, if he still supports the elimination of the life of the unborn and believes our government should support this form of genocide. I hope that the University will rescind its invi­tation and find someone else to conduct his class. 
Joseph M. Scheidler Executive Qirector Pro-Life Action League Augusq6, 1998 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Attention American Engineering and Computer Science Students 
Arter Congress reconvenes short­ly, the Jlousn of Hepresentatives· will be voting on a bill which could have a major, long-term impact on your future. 
The proposed legislation will dra­matieally increase the number of ftweign engineers and computer programmers allowed into the U.S. to work in the high tech industry over the next five years, under the II1-B visa program. This system has been exploited by the high tech industry to provide cheap. inden­tured labor, and to reduce salaries and overall job security for engi­neers and computer professionals in general. 
The powers that be in the high tech world have again decided that salaries have gotten too high and are telling Congress that there is a grave shortage of engineers and computer scientists, despite th~ fact that tens or thousands of layoffs have occurred in the last six months. This shortage has been widely discredited by experts, such as Professor Norman MatloiT at UC Davis, and the visa increase has been denounced by leaders from across the political spectrum, from Senator Edward Kennedy to Pat Buchanan, who called it a sell-out of Ameriea. 
The high teeh industry is lobbying hard and they are giving large cam­paign contributions to congression· al representatives who support their position. President Clinton has threatened to vnto this bill, but Congress seems to care more about the tlood of campaign eash. Call (202-224-3121 ), write, e-mail and petition your congressman now and get your like-minded friends and relatives to do the same! Tell them to vote no on li.H. 3736, and that you don't appreciate this attempt to manipulate the job market and your career prospects! Also call the White !louse at 202-456-2620 or 202-456-2326 (FAX 202-456-2878 or 202-456-6231) to let them know you oppose this bill and that you appreeiate their stand in favor of' America's homegrown high tech work foree. It is critical that you act now. 
Mark A. Mendlovitz, Ph.D Sanra 1\arbara, Ca. August 29, 1998 

• WAKE FOREST UNIVERSITY 


Legal drinking age defies logic 
WINSTON-SALEM, N.C. 

l.aw is dPiined by Wnbster's Dictionary as "a rule of conduct or action prnscribml or formally recog­nizPd as binding or on forced by a eon­trolling authority." 
!<'rom a very young age we, as mem­bnrs of this dviliznd modern soeinty, arn awarn of these laws and abide by thorn -most of the timn -without qtwstion and without exception. For instance, nveryone knows that it is against the law to shoot sorneonn, that it is against tlw law to burn down someone's house and that it is illegal to stnal another person's car. 
But did you ever stop and think about the Iogie behind some of the laws'! This is not to say that I am in favor of all-out anarchy. because I lwlinve that laws and law enforcement are vital to our society and we most definitely need laws to sustain life, lib­erty and all that other stuff. 
But there are some laws that make about as much S!'nse as a screen door on a submarine. The most notable example of this is tho law that exists throughout this land that no one under tho age.of 21 is allowed to purchase or consume alcohol. ­
I mys1df reeently 1·eached the age of 
21. that rito of passagn that every young adult goes through. But over the summer as I was sitting at a bar with a friend of mine back home, we started wondering what made 21 such a magi­cal age. Is there some sort of algebraic fMmula to go by? Is thp,r·e some sort of ehnmieal transformation that oceurs in your body that allows your body to proenss alcohol el'lieiently the second you turn 21 '?See, I don't t,hink so. 
So why 21 '? I asked my dad and he said that it had to do with "maturity and responsibility," and that you're "not mature enough to handle alcohol until you're 21." And that made sense to me until I thought about all the other things that the state of North Carolina trusts you to do under the age of 21. I lave you ever thought about all tho things that you can do or have done under the age of 21? Weill did, and I made a list. 
As every one knows, at the ripe old age of 16 the state gives you the authority to drive an automobile any­where you want, for as long as you want, with whomever and whenever you want. You, and you alone, are in control of several thousand pounds of metal traveling at speeds in excess of 60 miles per hour. 
At the age of 18 every person in this country is given the right to 
in an elec­tion. Each 18­year-old citizen is deemed respon­sible enough to speak his or her opinion and cast a vote for the President of the United States, arguably, the most powerful man in the entire world. You can also vote for Jesse Helms if you ehouse to do so. 
Within 30 days of his 18th birthday every male is required to register for Selected Service so that we can get drafted if this country every goes to war. So at 18 years old you could go to war and din for your country on the battlefield but not be old enough to go to Freddy B's and drink a beer. 
Hecnntly, in the sports world the under-21 demographic has seen great suceess, such as Atlanta Braves out­l'ielder Andruw Jones, who homered in 
his first appearance in the World Series two years ago, well below the age of 21. After the game Andruw couldn't have 
pagnein the club­house with teammates. Kevin Garnett has been mak­
ing millions or dollars a year since he graduated high school playing hoops for the Minnesota Timberwolves, but cannot buy a beer. 
As many students at this university are all too aware, prior to being 21 years of age, you can mortgage the rest of your life and take out a loan for several thousand dollars to pay for col­lege. 
At 18 years of age the state of North Carolina considers you old enough to consent to having sexual intercourse with another person over the age of 
18. And if you want, you can then get married to that spceial someone, have children and start your life together as husband and wife. 
When you turn 18, your parents are no longer legally responsible for you financially and can kick your butt to the curb -the ultimate eutting of the umbilical cord. 
But that only happens on rare oeca­sions, because most parents love to give their kids money well after they graduate college, even let them move back home and live rent free. Hight? 
And let us not forget, at the age of 18 you can buy a pack of cigarettes, go to a designated "Smoking Area" and smoke the whole paek, one right after the other. But hey, its not like ciga­rettes are bad for you or anything. 
It just seems odd to me that the gov­ernment trusts people under 21 to do many things but doesn't trust them to drink responsibly. 
It also seems odd that with all the rapists and murderers at-large on our streets we need to spend our tax dol­lars to create the Aleohol Law Enforcement department. Wouldn't that manpower have bePn bettBr spent looking for a real criminal'? 
This is not an endorsnment of under­age drinking boeause after all it is still the law. And tho law is the law. Hut hey, I'm 21 now so what do I eare. 
Scott Payne is a columnist for the Old Gold and Black at Wake Forest Uniuersity. 1/is column has been reprinted here courtesy of the U-Wire. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Obser11er. 


page8-------------------------------------------------------------------------------Monday, August 31, 1998 
•

There's something about a good movte ... 
subjects such as 'How much speed should

001TWJ®ff@0®0©lliiD®~WJa[ID@ 
you give a dog'?' and 'How important are

®~©rm~ lMl~rr~ oo 
good teeth in a rela­tionship?' Director: Bobby Farrelly and Peter Farrelly 
The story starts when Mary asks the

Starring: Cameron Diaz, Ben Stiller, Matt Dillon 
typical nice guy, Ted, 
and Chris Elliot 

to the prom. Needless to say, Ted accepts the invitation because there was always something about Mary he knew (Out of five shamrocks) 

he liked. Ted shows up on prom night in his tan tuxedo looking as good as ever; and 

By JOE LARSON when Mary walks down the stairs in Scene Movie Critic her sky blue prom dress, Ted is· amazed and at the sight only Mary 
"There's Something About Mary" is could provide. the classic story of boy meets girl, Then of course we have the little boy loses girl, boy obsesses over girl accident that postpot)es prom night for 13 years without ever seeing or as well as any relationship speaking to her, and boy tries to with Mary. While Ted get girl back. It is an epic saga recovers in the has-of two lovers torn by geo-pita!, Mary and graphical bounds. her family 
Some would say that moved away "There's Something to Florida About Mary" is the and Ted lost "Romeo and Juliet" of track of our time, with a little her. less drama and much T e d more cheap and taste-went on less humor. Okay, with his okay... it is probably not life, but he the "Romeo and Juliet" n e v e r of our time (I just said s t o p p e d that to keep you reading.) t h i n k i n g 
"There's Something about Mary. About Mary" is story of Ted There was just (Ben Stiller) and his undying something about love for his prom date, her that Mary (Cameron Diaz). ' . PhotoCourtesyof2_0thCenturyFox he could Directors Peter and There s som_ethJng about Cameron D~az ~s she never for-
B0 b bY Fare 11 Y plays the object of every man's affect1on 111 her t S (.. D b d D b "} summer ftlm success. gl e · 0 • 
urn an urn er 3 years bring us this zany, off-the-wall come-after the prom incident, Ted hires Pat dy about love, mistaken identity, Healy (Matt Dillon), a quirky and stalking, and dermatology as well as immoral private investigator, to go to Florida to try to find Mary. Healy finds Mary and realizes that there really is something about her that is special. Healy decides to move to Flqrida to be with Mary. He tens Ted that Mary is now a fat mother of four, crippled, and a pay-order bride. 

Healy moves to Florida to spy on Mary to find out what she likes in a man. He uses this information to try to transform himself into her perfect man. Meanwhile, Ted hears from a friend that Mary is an orthopedic sur­geon and is still, indeed, a fox. He decides he must drive to Florida to save Mary from.Healy, as well as rekindle their own friendship. There was just something about Mary. and he had to take action. 
Ted finally goes to Florida to pre­pare to battle for Mary's hand. It turns out he is not the only one will­ing to fight for her. There is the pizza boy, her old boyfriend, Brett. and another old boyfriend, Woogie who also know that something about Mary. So they are all trying to win her heart when a meteor the size of Texas lands in Florida and they all are seriously injured. Wait. That was different movie. You'll have to see for yourself how it ends. 
Ben Stiller portrays the high school geek well in this movie. He is perfect for the role of the neurotic, nice guy obsessing over the same girl for thir­teen years, and doing nothing about 
it. 
Matt Dillon shows the audience that he can be funny, too, after his great show­ings in just about every S.E. Hinton book turned movie. Cameron Diaz is in the movie to portray the "perfect woman," and it is believable. Every time she came on screen you could son every guy in the audience drooling like 

tiJCthing babies.  
Even  though  the  
performances  by  
Stiller,  Dillon,  and  

Diaz are good, what makes the movie is the performances by the 

supporting characters. Mary's over­tanned neighbor, Magda, was always good for a laugh. We then have Puffy the Dog. Puffy was given CPH, put in a body cast, thrown out a window, and fnd speed. Puffy puts animal actors like Beethoven and Benji to shame. I think Puffy may go down as the most influential animal actor of the twenti~th century. 
"There's Something About Mary" is an uproariously funny movie that I promise you will like if you have any sense of humor at all. This is a rare comedy where it starts out funny and gets funnier as it goes along. You may not walk out of the theater after "There's Something About Mary" more educated or enlightened, but you will be entertained. So put your books down for a couple hours and go find out what that something about Mary really is. 

always been one to show his viewer the necessary amount of material in order to develop a clear 
Director: Steven Spielberg understanding of character motivation. Once again,
Starring: Torn Hanks, Tom Sizemore, Edward 
this is the case with 
Burns and Matt Damon 
"Saving Private Hyan," as we the viewers must endure the extreme amount of carnage which took place during the Omaha Beach landing of 


(Out of five shamrocks) By CHRISTIAN A. PIERCE 
Scene Movie Critic 
Why? One of the easiest questions to ask, yet the most difficult to answer. Had we asked Steven Spielberg why World 
War II was fought in Europe following ..--------------::: the relea..<>e of "Schindler's list" (1993), I believe he would have pointed to the numerous victims liberated from perse­cution. Unfortunately, such an response leaves many questions unanswered for most Americans. Spielberg's most recent project, "Saving Private Ryan," discusses the opposite side of the argu­
ment. 
Instead of glorifying US involvement in World War II, he cites the effect such military service has on those who fought in the trenches. This film looks at those who were lost. not those who were saved, leaving an impression on even the most hardened of viewers. "Saving Private Ryan," like "Schindler's 
List," is an educational experience which displays the brutality of war and how those involved must cope with what they have seen, heard, and done. 
Now I imagine those who have already heard of this film know of the exhausting amount of graphic violence. Spielberg has 
the D-Day invasion. 

At this point I will send out a general warning that this opening act is undoubtedly the most graphic footage I have ever witnessed in a Hollywood film. The film is diflicult to watch, but let's not forget that this is not excessive. We are not watching an action or horror film set out to disgust its audience. This first scene 
Photo Courtesy of Dreamworks and Paramount 

"Saving Private Ryan" is war at its cinematic best. 
vividly depicts the overwhelming amount of death actually experienced by our fathers or grandfathers during the beach landing. These events -or something in close proximity -actually occurred, which I believe justifies the content of the 
first act. Do your best to endure this sec­tion of the film as it will assist you in understanding the characters' state of mind in sub­sequent scenes. 
Following the beach landing the film devel­ops its story around a small group of men sent on a pub­lic relations mission. The Ryan family lost three sons to World War II, and a fourth still battles on some­where in the French country­side. Military commanders feel it unrea­sonable to ask a family to sacrifice its entire bloodline for the war, so the remaining Ryan, Private James Ryan (Matt Damon), must be found and sent home. This burden is placed on the shoul­ders of Capt. Miller (Tom Hanks), a man who has been asked to risk his life and that of his men so that one soldier can find his way home. 
What this film truly asks is whether or not risking one's life for others is a worth­while cause. The simple question, why? Eight men are asked to fmd Private Ryan, certainly aware that not everyone will make it back. On a larger scale this SCB­nario asks why the US ever became involved in WWII. America sent its men to a foreign continent to battle an enemy that did not directly affect our shores. We came to the assistance of others, but was it worth it if so many of or own would die for this cause? This question is an astounding contrast to that of Spielberg's earlier project, but is clearly one that needs to be asked. 
The remainder of the film follows these eight men through their emotional route toward saving Private Ryan. They fre­quently say, "This Private Ryan bet­ter be worth it," which is essentially the theme 
of the film. The cast includ-

Phata Courtesy of Dreamworks and Paramount in SUCh 
A strong supporting cast that includes Edward Burns and g ·. Giovanni Ribisi only helps make the war film "Saving other c.redi-Private Ryan" more thought provoking. ble actors 
as Tom 

Sizemore (Sgt. llorvath), Edward Burns (Reiben), Adam Goldberg (Mellish), Barry Pepper (Jackson), Giovanni Ribisi (Wade), Vin Diesel (Caparzo), and Jeremy Davies (Corp. Upham} develops a story that is about people, something we often forget when talking about war. These ar~ thn men who risked their lives for people they did not even know. 
This is not a John Wayne story of hero­ies; at times it is in faet a stor:y of cow­ardice. These arc people like you and me who were asked to endure more than any human being should ever have to with­stand. This film is unpoubtcdl¥ a....heavy hitter, but asks tl1e· ''why" that needs to be asked. Brave through this film remember­ing that your relatives actually struggled through such hardship. 
"Saving Private Hyan" is a must see. This is a film that will make you laugh and surely it will make you cry. If you see no other film this semester see "Saving Private Hyan," so that you may consider the reasons "why." 




S€ene 
Photo courtesy of Paramount and Twentieth Century Fox 
O THE

Monday, August 31, 1998 ------------------BSERYER -----------------------page9 
For Sale: 'Titanic' on video! 
of "Titanic" surpassed that of its pnwious record­
holder, "Tho Lion King,'" though the chain refused 
LOS ANGEl .ES to disclose sale ligures. It is charging $24.99, with 
lias all tlw "Titanic" hypo sunk from sight'? a $5 gift certilieate to pro-sale customers. (;uoss again, shipmatos. Many of Blockbuster's 4,000 American stores 
On Tuesday -just after the stroke of midnight will reopen at midnight, spokeswoman Stephanie -tho ocnangoing Academy Award wimu1r Cota said. Exceptions include some in indoor laundws its North America video release, with shopping malls and in cities with ordinances pro­
many storns staying open to handle shoppers. hibiting the latn hours. 
With 20 million copios of 
t h (l .I am n s 
Camc~ron 
h I o c k ­h u s t I' r 
ship p (' d OVI'r thP wnPkond, 
i . t ' s !'X)ll'!'l!'d to Pasily IJ!'COillP t h I' hi g g ~~ s t­s I' IIi II g I i v ~~ ­II ~~ t i o II vidPo of all 1imn. clrush ing ".lurassie Park." 
which has Forget "Titanic?" Well, it's back, and it's more personal than ever, now that 
Photo Courtesy of Paramount and Twentieth Century Fox 
it is available on video. Yahoo!

sold 17 
Ill i II i 0 II 
copins. 
Tho only quostion is wlwther it also will surpass the :w million salos of Disney's animatod feature "Tiw Lion King." 
"Inarguably, 'Titanic' (s the biggest video event in ynars," said Bruen A par, P.ditor in chief of Video Businoss magazinP. "This is the kind of marquee titiP that gnts pnopln into tlw stores to buy other titlos as WPll." 
For this n~ason, many stores are willing to accc~pl minimal prof'its -or PVI'n takP a loss -on the 3­hour, 14-minutl' douhln-tapn sot prit'Pd for an avnragn of about $2!'i. 
ThP onlinP vidcw store, WW\v.Hncd.com, whoso whimsi­cal ads say, "WI' brought it in undPr hudgPI," is soiling the lapP for $1J.'J'J. plus shipping and handling. Wl'll bl'low wholc~­salP cost, which is a tradl' sncret hul hc•lii'VPd to bn about $1 h. 
"\Vc• opiPd to tak<' tlw loss," said .lulif' Wainwright, tlw com­pany's rhif'l' nxncutiw. "Wo did it to introduce JH'oplc~ to shop­ping at our silP. WP figured if tiH•y had a good nxporinnce, tlH•rn's a good rhanr.P llwy'rn coming hack." 
Through latP last wook, Hoel.com had processed I;iO,OOO orders, with tho rPqttnsts coming in at a dizzying ralco of thrcon-a-socond during tlw pPak lnt<•rtwt hours of lunchtimco and evening, Wainwright said. 
At Tower Video on Sunset Boulevard. wlwrP "Titanic" star l.coonardo DiCaprio oet'asionally shops, managcors will deck out tlw storl' likP a ship in antieipa­tion of tlw midnight salco. 
"I' Ill sick of all tlw hoopla," dnrk Tony Sinclair said. "It's '------­nonstop. ·(Jwy want to dncorate 
After surpassing the $600 million mark at the box
this plan• like a giant ship, with shipments, 502
office, 'Titanic' now looks to break video rental and 
portholc~s and sand. I said, movie theaters
sales records, with its September 1 release. 
'Tiw.rn was no sand on the Titanic. Wn rwmllif'd>Oats."' 
Shoppl'rs gohhll• up anything and everything "Titanir" -particularly if it has DiCaprio on it, said Sinclair. who has bc~on oll'nred up to $100 for a piduro of liH• movie heartthrob hanging near a "Titanic" display. 
Video retail giant Blor.kbustnr said the pre-sale 
and Windows 95 software. The video release fol­
lows the phenomenal $1.1-l-billion box office run of 
the movie, starring DiCaprio and Kate Winslet as 
star-crossed lovers aboard the doomed oceanlin­
er. It has brought in $CJOO million domestically ­making it the all-time box-ol'lice champ -and nearly $1.2 billion overseas. The winner of 11 Oscars. including best pieture, 'Titanic" was co­produced by 20th Century Fox and Paramount, 
and is being teleased domes­tically by Paramount. The two studios share in the rev­cnues. 
Typically, video is a mon­ster moneymak­er ·for the stu­dios. with about 55 percent of the studio's domes­tic film revenue coming from video rentals and sales, according to the Video Software Dealers Association. 
Only about 23 percent comes from the theatri­cal run (with TV and pay-per­view making up the rest), though the success of the movie in the­aters fuels the success in tho video stores. 
And even as storP.s were receiving their "Titanic" video 
in the United Statns and Canada were still showing the film, and the theatrical run ~ould eontinue for months. 
"With 'Titanic,' it's just one of those movies that captured tlw imagination of the movie-going pub­lic," said Dorrit Hagosine, Paramount home video spokeswoman. "It's one of those films we want to see over and over again." 
"We want to be able let the cus­tomers have the movie the minute it is available," Cola said. 
Best Buy con­sumer electronics stores will open 27(> of 289 outlets at midnight, oll'f~r­ing the video for $19,99-plus a free "Titanic" 1999 calendar. spokeswoman Lauric Bauer said. "We'll just open the front section so we don't have to staff the entire store," she said. 
The only other limes Best Buy opened at mid­night were to sell "The Beatles Anthology" CD 

'Blade' is top movie; 'Titanic' reaches another milestone 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES 

Even though "Titanic" is about to come out on video, the James Cameron movie continund to break box of'lice records. becoming the first film to pass tho $(>00 million mark donwsti­cally, according to estimates released Sunday. 
While "Blade" topped the weekend box ofl1ce with $1 1.1 million in ticket sales, "Titanic" still managed to attrad audi­ences more than nine months after its debut. 
The epic of the doomed oeean linnr reached the $600 mil­lion milestone on Thursday, then gmssed another $385,000 in 502 theaters over the weekend, bringing its total to $600.4 million in North America and nearly $1.8 billion worldwide. 
"Titanic" also was the first l'ilm to pass the $500 million mark domestically. The second-highest-grossing 111m -in dollars not adjusted for inllation -was "Star Wars," which has reaped $4(>1 million at the domestie box ol'lke, including reissues. 
"People just can't get enough of 'Titanic,"' said movie ana­lyst Paul Dergarabedian, president of Exhibitor Helations Co. lne, which tracks box ol'fice data. "It'll be interesting to see how the video affects it. It could ereate a whole new interest in the film on the big sereen." 
The two-tape video set of the 3-hour, 14-minute movie becomes available at 12:01 a.m.Tuesday. Many video and retail chains are reopening at midnight to accommodate cus­tomers. 
Meantime, as the summer movie season neared an end, tlw vampire adventure "Blade" remained the top film in North America for a second week. It has grossed a total of $34.9 million, just ahead of the comedy-that-won't-die, "There's Something About Mary." 
"Mary," which was expanded to another 215 scrnens -it now is showing on more than 2,400-was the only top film to have an increase in business over last week; its $H.8 million gross was a 14 percent boost. The film has collm:ted a total of $116.7 million in seven weeks, one of the nine summer films to cross the $100 million mark. 
Another was Steven Spielberg's "Saving Privati~ Hyan," in third place for the weekend with $8.3 million. Its total of $155.5 million in six weeks exeecded all expectations for thc1 brutally realistic World War II story. 
Two new films opened to mediocre business. They were "54," about the infamous Nnw York diseothequn, which grossed $6.6 million for fourth place, and the music biopic "Why Do Fools Fall in Love," which debutnd at No. !i with $4.2 million. 
The Drew Barrymore Cindnrella story "Ever After" was sixth with $4 million, "Snake Eyes" with Nicolas Cage was seventh with $3.7 million and "IIow Stella Got llnr Groove Back" was eighth with $3.6 million. "Dance With Me" had $3 million for ninth, and "Dead Man on Campus" and "Tho Parent Trap" tied for lOth with $2.9 million each. 
Overall, the weekend was down 1 S pnreent from last year, but the comparison is misleading because that pnriod was a four-day Labor Day weekend. This year, tlw holiday weekend will begin on Friday. 
Here are estimated grosses for tho top movies at North American theaters for Friday through Sunday as compiled by Exhibitor Helations Co. Inc. Final figures were to be released Monday·: 
1. 
"Blade," $11.1 million. 

2. 
"There's Something About Mary," $8.8 million. 

3. 
"Saving Private Hyan,'' $8.3 million. 

4. 
"54," $CJ.CJ million 


5. 
"Why Do Fools Fall in Love," $4.2 million. 

6. 
"Ever After," $4 million. 

7. 
"Snake Eyes," $3.7 million. 

8. 
"How Stella Got ller Groove Back,'' $3.6 million. 

9. 
"Dance With Me,'' $3 million. 


tlO. "Dead Man on Campus," $2.9 million. 
tlO. "The Parent Trap," $2.9 million. 
--· 

-~~ --~­
-,__ page 10 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, August 31, 1998 
• CoLLEGE FmnsALL 


Trojans outhustle Boilermakers in Pigskin Classic 
Associated Press 

Freshman quarterback Carson Palmer came off the bench to guide Southern California to two second-half touchdowns and a field goal Sunday for a 27-17 victo­ry over Purdue in Paul Hackett's Trojan coaching debut. 
On a sweltering afternoon in the Coliseum, Chad Morton scored on a 98­yard kickoff return early in the game, then sealed the victory with a 13-yard touchdown run with 3:02 left in the sea­son-opening Pigskin Classic matchup. 
Palmer, who replaced starter Mike Van Raaphorst with the Trojans trailing 17-10 early in the third quarter, needed just two series to help put his team ahead as USC outscored Purdue 17-0 in the second half. 
Palmer came in with the Trojans at their own 32-yard line, and, after over­throwing the receiver on his first college attempt, threw a 9-yard completion. Then Palmer hooked up with Larry Parker for a 42-yarder, down to the Purdue 8. 
Shortly afterward, Petros Papadakis punched into the end zone from the 1­yard line to tie the game with 1:57 left in the quarter. 
The Trojans went ahead for the first time on Adam Abrams' 45-yard field goal in the opening minute of the fourth quar­ter. The score was set up by linebacker Chris Claiborne's interception at the Purdue 31. 
Cornerback Daylon McCutcheon slapped Brees' pass away from intended receiver Randall Lane, and Claiborne dove to grab the ball before it hit the ground. 
With USC up by three, Van Raaphorst returned to replace Palmer for the next series, then Palmer came back with 3:54 left in the game and took the Trojans on a drive that ended with Morton's second touchdown of the day, set up by David Gibson's fumble recovery at the Purdue 44. 
For the game, Palmer was 3-of-6 for 79 yards. Van Raaphorst, a sophomore who started two games before being hurt last season,was 11-of-22 for 89 yards, with one interception. 
Drew Brees, a sophomore in his first start for Purdue, completed 30-of-52 for 248 yards and two TDs, with two inter­ceptions. He was the dominant player in the first half, completing 18-of-27 for148 yards and two scores. 
The fourth football meeting ever between the schools, and the first since 1976, marked a successful homecoming for Hackett, a USC assistant under John Robinson in the late 1970s. After serving as the Kansas City Chiefs' offensive coor­dinator, Hackett was hired as by the Trojans last winter after Robinson was fired following a 6-5 season. 
Purdue, which turned around last sea­son under new coach Joe Tiller, was coming off a 9-3 season and the school's first bowl appearance since 1984. 
Although Purdue outgained USC 208 yards to 78 and had to punt just once in the first half, the Boilermakers led only 17-10. 
Morton helped by running all the way on his first kickoff return for USC. As his teammates sealed off defenders on the outside, Morton darted up the middle almost untouched. Two would-be tacklers converged on him near the 25-yard line. but hit him at the same time and bounced off. 
Morton then cut to the outside and sprinted all alone to the end zone. 
After netting a minus-1 yard in the first quarter, the USC offense put together a scoring drive midway through he second. Van Raaphorst guided the Trojans 60 yards, down to the Purdue 13, before the Boilermakers' defense dug in and held USC to Abrams' 30-yard field goal that trimmed the lead to 17-10. 
After Purdue took the opening kickoff, Brees completed five of his first six throws, including a 43-yarder to Isaac Jones down to the USC 19, Brees capped the drive with the short pass to Cox for a 7-0 lead 4:40 into the game. 
After Morton's TD return, Purdue moved in front again on Brees' 9-yard scoring pass to Cliff Jackson. Helped by Danny Rogers' 63-yard punt down to the USC 2-yard line moments earlier, the Boilermakers began their second TD drive from the Trojans' 29. 

•NFl 


Ex-Irish quarterback Mirer officially cut from Bears 
Associated Press Several teams expressed interest in The Bears hoped they were getting a Chicago's continuity last year as tJtc Mirer after the Bears announced franchise quarterback in Mirer when Bears went 4-12. Kramer, who injun~ Rick Mirer's career with the Chicago Wednesday they couldn't agree on a they gave the Seattle Seahawks a first-his neck in 1996, had the support of the Bears is officially over. pay cut, but his contract was just too round draft pick for him, but the trade offense, but coach Dave Wannstedt 
Unable to find a taker for Mirer and big to make any deal practical. Under turned out to be among the worst in alternated between him and Mirer as his $10 million contract, the Bears cut terms of the collective bargaining team history. Besides giving up the Chicago started the season 0-7. the 1993 second overall pick Sunday as agreement, any team that signed Mirer draft pick, the Bears gave Mirer a $2.6 Kramer finally got the starting job for they pared their roster to the league­would have had to pay him at least million signing bonus. good and signed a three-year, $9 mil-required 53 players. The Bears also cut $1.425 million. He was a failure from the start, losing lion contract in the offseason. Chicago nine other players. "(The salary) made it pretty difficult his starting job to Erik Kramer in train-told Mirer he'd have to take a pay cut to 
"Cuts are part of the business you to get much done," Hatley said. "You ing camp. At one point, he sank to No.3 play this season, but the Bears wouldn't really don't like," said Mark Hatley, had to have quite a bit of cap room to on Chicago's depth chart and didn't give him the long-term security he Chicago's vice president of player per­get the deal done." play for a month -a $10 million clip-wanted. sonnel. "It's something that has to be By cutting Mirer, the Bears save $2.3 board holder. Chicago also signed Jim Schwantz, a done. We've gotten through it. million against the cap this season. Mirer's presence also disrupted linebacker and special teams player. . 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. ro 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. One year place­NOTICES ments in various sectors: human rights,com­That Pretty Place, Bed and Breakfast Inn has TICKETS Relive the memories!! Classic Irish Games 
munity space available for footbaiVparent wknds.5 from 1970s and 80s on VHS Video. THE OBSERVER APOLOGIZES to all the development,youth,journalism,microenter­Rooms with private baths,$80-NEED 2 MICH TIX! Complete network broadcasts, most of excel­people whose classifieds should have run prise,health,relugee relief,more.lnternships in $115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. Toll $$ and/or trade for LSU tix. Call Andrew at lent quality. Call Tom 410-309-0395; in the past week's editions. In the wake of our Washington, DC office. Road,Exit #1 07,1-800-418-9487. 904-947-6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. Email:danyluk@erols.com a hectic move to 024 South Dining Hall; Visions in Action.(202)625-7403. our classified ad computer terminals had Visions@ igc.org BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY fine home I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272­several problems and did not store the Web:www.visionsinaction.org. within 10 miles of ND/SMC 219-291-7153 6306 WE HAVE BEETS!!!!!! ads correctly. Our staff has worked hard to eliminate the glitches, and we hope the EARLY CHILDHOOD Furnished room,air,kitchen,laundry fac.,3 YOU NEED MICH TIX? Volunteer in Africa or Mexico. One year NDISMC community will continue to turn DEVELOPMENT CENTER­min. N. of campus.272-0615 I GOT ONE FOR SALE placements in various sectors: human rights, to Observer classifieds in the future. NOTRE DAME GA, 20yd. line community development, youth, journalism. Please contact us if your ad has not yet The Early Childhood Development Center at Close to campus. Clean, Call x4586 microenterprise, health, refugee relief, more. appeared. Thank you for your patience. Noter Dame,located at 18680 Bulla Road,is 2 bdrm. Stove,refrigerator,security system. Internships in our Washington, DC office. 
currently accepting applications from college $450/month.$300 deposit.1 yr lease.801 TICKETMART Inc Visions in Action. WANTED students for part time positions.The hours are Corby.Pager 679-8748.Piease leave#. BUY-SELL-TRADE (202) 625-7 403. 
11:30 a.m.-1 :05 p.m. MWF and/or TTH. If you Notre Dame Football Tickets Visions@igc.org After school child care needed. Mon thru Fri. are interested in applying, please contact Bed and Breakfast for Notre Dame games 258-1111 Web: www.visionsinaction.org 3-5 pm, all or any days. Must be good with Thayer Kramer at631-33441or more informa­and events. Private home 2 miles form cam­No student tickets please children. Car & references a must. tion and an application. pus. Private baths. Spencer you're fired!!!! 
~ 
... _ 
Day-234-2211 (Angela) 272-9471 Eddie you're fired too!!!! Eve. -271-8224 VOLUNTEERS NEEDED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS Spencer you're hired to replace Eddie ... The Early Childhood Development FTBL WKNDS-Charming Cape Cod 2 VERY GOOD.PRICES 
Sports Officials Wanted Center,located at Saint Mary's College and Bdrm/1 Bth,Sieeps 4-6,7 min drv,lncludes 2 MICH -1 PURDUE VITO's Barbershop. lor Flag Football, Baseball, and Soccer. the University of Notre Dame, is looking for brkfst.For more info call232-4835 1 BAYL-1 LSU Closed All Day Sun and Wed.Open Daily 8­Good pay,Fiexible hours and we will train lor volunteers who enjoy young children.ll you HONEST/FAST DELIVERY 4,Sat8-3. each sport. Apply in person at Rolfs Sports would be interested in spending 2 hours a FTBL WKNDS-Cute 3bed/2bath,sleeps 4-404 784 1128 233-4767 Activity week reading children's books,building with 6,7min dr,lnclds brkfst.For more info call233­Center or call631-5100. blocks,and singing songs with children,please 3410 FOR SALE Sarah, it's too bad i broke Tom Cruise's 
Ask lor DeMond Thomas or call Cindy Hestad at284-4693 (ECDC-SMC) FOOTBALL TICKETS heart, but it had to be done. Jeff Walker. or Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 OFF CAMPUS RENTALS 271-9412 
(ECDC-ND).Piease join our fun tilled days. AVAILABLE FALL 1999 There you are! ND profs seek mature, loving babysitter for WANTED Do I know you? great 15 month old girl. Flexible hrs, great I FOR RENT 1-Property 1 ....... .4-5 STUDENTS ND FOOTBALL TICKETS No, but that's where you are! pay. 234-2241,631-7762,631-7138. L-------------...J Property 2 ........ 6-8 STUDENTS 271-1526 
Off Campus Rentals (large common area) 01' Sho 
HTML EXPERT WANTED Very, very reasonable rent Clean, washers/dryers, appliances,security NO Ftbl. tix Fast-paced Internet design and management systems, plenty of parking, nice condition. Call BUY-SELL Prepare your soul for the eternal torment that team needs a person skilled in AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY Dave or Carolyn 291-2209 674-7645 awaits you. HTML.Candidates must have an advanced (1998-99) knowledge of HTML 3.2,including (but not 2-bedroom apartments FOR SALE NO Football-Buy-Sell. Seasonal and Individual Yes, you. YOU KNOW WHO YOU ARE. 
limited to) tables, form design,server-side 1 large house (2 students minimum) Game Tickets. GA-only 
includes,style sheets and browser-specific Clean, washers/Dryers MATTRESSES 674-7645 Phew, eternal torment. That's pretty serious. differences in HTML implementation.Strong Security Systems 4SALE/CHEAP -large & small preference will be given to candidates who Plenty of Parking 289-7930 (Carlo) ND Football Tickets Needed. Kevin Hughes rocks my world, and hey, he are not dependent on HTML generation tools Call Dave or Carolyn] AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 even eats my roommate's cooking. That's and are able to produce complex HTML by 291-2209 Two lofts for sale I Best offers -must go! bold! but I guess it's hard to mess up with hand.Skills in interface design,image design Call4-1439 FOR SALE. 2 Michigan GA's.Best Offer. ham and mayo. and com-pression for Web use, and 1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAMPUS. 634-3193. Ask for Kirn 
JavaScript are valuable.Salary plus bene­AVAIL. NOW 1010 Oak Ridge,5 bedroom,3 bath MB's pretty cool, herself. fits. Contact Coy Jankowski at GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 house.$109,000.Walk to ND.Well-main­PERSONAL JGSulliven,219.234.2211 ,or submit a resume tained,adapted for wheelchair user.2 car This happens ... to no one else. 
to 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. FURN. garage,wooded lot,central air, fireplace. Call For your FREE W.W.J.D. bracelet, call631­Resumes @JGSullivan.com $175. PER PERSON.272-6551 Jane at 277-2755 6385. Wait til next weekend 
Monday, August 31, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page II 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 

Sosa belts homer in Cubs win to tie McGwire at 54 

Associated l'ress ballpark history. hits and one run in seven Rockies' half. two runs in the eighth. After The Cubs slugger matched innings. He exited after yield­Tapani retired the first seven Vander Wal's double, pinch­
Sammy Sosa hit his 54th the second-highest single-sea­ing a leadoff double to pinch­batters he faced before Kirt hitter Terry Shumpert had an homer to tie Mark McGwire for son homer total in NL history hitter John Vander Wal in the Manwaring singled in the third. RBI single off reliever Terry the major league lead and shared by MeGwire, who had eighth. Walker ended his shutout bid Mulholland. Shumpert went to Knvin Tapani pitched seven 54 homers entering Sunday Rod Beck put the tying run with his homer in the fourth. second on a groundout and strong innings as the Chicago night's game against Atlanta, on second in the ninth before Tapani benefited from superb scored on Bichette's bloop sin­Cubs beat the Colorado Hoekies and Pittsburgh's Halph Kiner in getting two outs for his 39th defense in the sixth. Neifi Perez gle off Matt Karchner. 4-3 on Sunday. 1949. save. led off with a 
Sosa remained ahead of In Sosa's subsequent at-bats, Hernandez led off the second single and Hoger Maris' record 61-homer he popped out to the catcher in with his third homer of the Walker hit a 
Wild Card Standings 
pace, putting the Cubs ahead foul territory, struck out and series and 21st of the year, a shot down the 
AL Wild Card 
2-0 in the first with a towflring, walked. drive that squirted out of the first-base line 482-foot homer off the Coca­Jose Hernandez and Gary glove of leaping right fielder that was 
. Team w L GB Cola sign next to the score­Gaotti also homered for the Walker just above the wall. snared by 
~Boston 79 54 ­
board in left field. Cubs, who won three out of Chicago made it 4-0 in the Mark Grace, 
' • Texas 72 63 8
The two-run shot off Darryl four in the series. fourth on Gaetti's 443-foot solo who stepped 
Toronto 70 66 10.5
Kiln (10-15) was the longest Tapani (16-7) equaled his shot to left, his 13th. on first to dou­homer at Coors Field this sea­career high for wins in a sea­Larry Walker countered with ble up Perez. son and the f'il'th-longest in son, holding the Rockies to six a solo homer, his 20th, in the Dante Bichette 
NL Wild Card 
·then hit a liner 
• 
Team w L GB
down the 
-
NY Mets 75 61 ­
,-J,ii:!',

third-base line 
,_ 

Chicago Cubs 74 62 I
that was stabbed by 
San Francisco 73 63 2 Gaetti. Colorado got 

WantA Challenge? 
OFFICER TRAINING SCHOOL 
Start your career off on the right foot by enrolling in the Air Force Officer Training School. There you will become a commissioned officer in just 12 weeks. From the start you'll enjoy great pay, complete medical and dental care, 30 days of vacation each year, 
plus the opportunity to travel and 
AIM HIGH 

see the world. To discover how high 
~ 
-AIR-.............._ a career in the Air Force can take -IFORCE~ you, call 1-800-423-USAF. or visit our website at www.airforce.com
www.airforce.com 

On Becoming a Student Citizen 
Last week from 

friends. In addition to all my office at the Center for 
of these important educa­Social Concerns, I 
tional and social activi­watched the trucks roll 
.ties, I would encourage onto campus, carrying 
you to come to Activities students' belongings back 
Night, Tuesday, to campus. From their 
September 1, from 7-9 at license plates, I knew that 
the JACC and visit the they came from 
service area to find the Massachusetts, 
right service activity for Pennsylvania, California, 
you this year. Ohio and on and on. As I 
Just as your acad­watched sweating parents 
emic work prepares you and siblings hauling furni­
to take your place in the ture, building lofts, putting 
work world, engagement fans in windows, I was 
with the community pre­reminded of how many 
pares you to become a homes and communities 
responsible neighbor. By are represented here on 
taking the time to get our campus. Each family Bend, just like your home your place as an adult Dame have built involved you will be living 
and each community is community, has a network away from your family, you new houses for people who 
out values that make our unique and has a network of institutions that serve the have the responsibility of may not otherwise have 
communities whole, of relationships and insti­people who live here. Now being a contributing mem­been able to have a house. 
healthy and, most of all, tutions that make that is your opportunity to offer ber of your new community. They have tutored children 
joyful.community special. Most your services to your com­One way to become who needed extra support I, as well as the of you have been con­munity; to make it a better a part of your new home is to be successful in school. 
staff at the Center for 
nected to your communi­place to live. to become involved in They have lived with peo­
Social Concerns, look for­ties through school, work, South Bend has some of the organizations ple who were incarcerated. 
ward to meeting you! If or sports and your par­much to offer you. It is that provide services to the All of these students found 
we can be of any addi­ents, who have served on made up of a variety of eth­people of South Bend. ways to make valuable and 
tional assistance, please boards, joined the PTA or nic groups. That diversity There are myriad opportu­lasting contributions to the 
stop by or give us a call. worked in the local adds to the quality of our nities. You can choose South Bend community 
Kathy Royer, Director 
Parish. You and the lives in many ways. It is according to your interests while they were at Notre 
of Community Partners­
adults around you have built on a river that shapes and passions which organi­Dame. 
hips and Service 
tried to build communities it geographically and recre­zation suits you. You come This week, you will­
Learning 631-5293 
that are safe, healthy, and ationally. I invite you to get to this place with energy, finalize your academic nurturing. to know South Bend, not enthusiasm and a growing schedules, settle your Now you are a just as a transient student, set of skills All of these are housing arrangements and member of a new commu­but as a resident citizen of invaluable to your new decorate your rooms. You nity. Notre Dame is a part a lively and interesting city. neighbors. will reconnect with friends SOCIAL of South Bend and South Now that you are taking Students from Notre or begin to make new CONCERNS 


page 12 
The Observer· SPORTS Monday, August 31, 1998 
• NFL 



Levens ends six-week holdout with Green Bay 
Associated Press 
Pro Bowl halfback Dorsey Levens missed the entire off­season. but the only time he'll be a holdout now is when coach Mike Holmgren keeps him on the sideline. 
Levens ended his six-week holdout Sunday by signing a one-year tender for $2.742 mil­lion, which allows him to report to the Green Bay Packers while the finishing touches ar~ put on a five-year, $25 million package. 
"My thoughts are he should have been here in May," gener­al manager Ron Wolf said. "But I'm happy he's here now when we need him. I think what that does is that puts together the finest offensive unit in the NFC." 
By signing him to the tender, Green Bay will be able to retain its franchise player designation and slap it on another player, such as wide receiver Antonio Freeman, who stood to cash in as a free agent after this sea­son, providing a long-term deal with Levens is completed this season. 
Although Travis Jervey or Raymont Harris will start, Leven could see significant playing time against the Lions. 
"I don't expect him to gain over 200 yards, but I expect him to be effective," Wolf said. 
Agent Hadley Engelhard has maintained his client is in tip­top shape, having worked out with a personal trainer and track coach in Atlanta during the protracted holdout. 
The Packers planned an extra day of full-pads practice and also will put Levens through individual workouts in a crash-course preparation for the season. 
Levens skipped all of the team's off-season workouts as Engelhard insisted his client would never play for the one­year tender. 
As the Packers' franchise player, Levens was guaranteed the average salary of the top five players at his position last year. But that amount was ren­dered insufficient when other running backs cashed in on the NFL's infusion of broadcast revenue this offseason. 
By showing up for work, Levens can collect $161,294 a week under the tender deal while Green Bay and Engelhard negotiate a five-year contract. 
''I'm just glad he's signed right now. We can worry about all that stuff later," Wolf said. 
Engelhard and Packers chief negotiator Mike Reinfeldt made 
ml]£ ~£fu Jork mim£5 Students: get an edge! 
T
wo-Thirds of the "influential leaders" read The New York Times. It is the most widely read Sunday publication and the second most widely read weekday publication. The men and women who make up the "influential leaders" are among the upper echelons of government, business academia, and science. 
save  Whether you want to keep up with  
events, issues or trends that can help  
money  you in class, help you plan your career  
too!  or broaden your horizens, the nation's premier newspaper gives you an edge.  

To start receiving YOUR subscription to The New York Times at the special student rate, please calll-800-535-5031. 
Newspaper in Education IExpect the World Iwww.nytimes.com 
significant progress after breaking through a stalemate about 10 days ago. Engelhard lowered his demands on a sign­ing bonus and Green Bay increased its offer to a yearly average of $5 million, accord­ing to Engelhard. 
Levens was in his fourth year out of Georgia Tech when he took over for injured Edgar Bennett in 1997. He scored five touchdowns on passes and seven more on carries, rushing for 1,475 yards, :~9 short of Jim Taylor's team record. 
The Packers named him a franchise player, effectively removing him from free agency because another team would have to part with two first­round draft picks to sign him. 
A league rule now allows Green Bay to transfer the fran­chise designation to another player as long as Levens accepts a long-term extension before the end of the season. 

Free soft drinks or juice with purchase of meal. Open 24 Hours! 

52860 US 31/33 North South Bend, IN 46637 271-0101 




Informational Meeting Monday, August 31 at 7:00pm 356 Fitzpatrick Hall 
The Irish Racing Team is an NO student project that develops and competes an electrically powered l~dy-style race car. Students from all disciplines are invited to participate in projects which include video production, PR, marketing, finance, electric and mechanical design, plus. 
Contact Dr. Bill Berry @ 1-6102 for more information. 
.. 
_M_o_n_d~ay_,_A~ug~'t_•sr_3_1_,_1_9<_~8____________________~T~h~e~O~b~s=er~ve~r_·~P~~~I=D~AD\TE
__~R~T~IS~E~~~E~~~T~------------------------------~p_a~ge~13 

100 FREE minutes. And just 10¢ a minute to anywhere in the U.S. 
Kinda makes it hard to keep quiet. 
Sign up for an AT&T One Rate® plan and your first I 00 minutes are FREE.* Whatever your calling needs are AT&T has a One Rate plan that's right for you. 

AT&T One Rate® Plus: 10¢ a minute-one low rate all the time on state-to-state calls you dial from home. Whoever. Whenever. Wherever you call in the U.S. And just a $4.95 monthly fee. 
AT&T One Rate® Off Peak: 10¢ a minute on your state-to-state, direct dialed calls from home from 7pm -7am and all weekend long; 25¢ a minute all other times. And there's no monthly fee.* 
Sign up with AT&T and get 100 minutes FREE. ­

Call I 800 654-0471 
and mention offer code 59917 or visit www.att.com/college/np.html 
I t ' s a I I w i t h i n y o u r r e a c h .® 
ATs.T 
-Terms and cond1t1ons apply. Free mtnutes promot1on applies to first full monthly bill. Unused m1nutes cannot be earned over. Offer exp1res I 0/15/98. Offer based on choice of AT&T One Rate Plus or AT&T One Rate Off Peak Plan. Plans subject to bi111ng availability. ln~state rates vary, '$3 monthly mm1mum usage apphes to One Rate Off Peak Plan. Call for details. !tll998 AT&T 

' '­
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, August 31, 1998 
has made the improvements to



D-Line 
tackle the Maize and Blue and
continued from page 16 
help fans forget 

weighed in at 247 pounds after playing middle about last sea­linebacker at 220 pounds. The coaching staff son. hopes that his size and linebacker mentality "We want to 
will provide some of that aggressive play. see how much 
"He has adjusted pretty well just because of progress we've his size and he's a good athlete," Strong said. made as a foot­"He's just a big body and he can do what we ball team," Davie ask him to do." said. "We've 
Junior Joe Ferrer has provided competition worked hard; the for Irons at the rush backer slot as the Irish coaches and the hope to have improved depth. players, the atti­
While trying to settle the defensive line a Jot tude has been of players will likely be used this Saturday to great, but you try to slow the Wolverine's power running have to play the attack. games to see if 
Lamont Bryant, who was held out of you've made Saturday's scrimmage, is expected to practice progress so all of today as he has moved to defensive end. The us are excited." senior has some competition as freshman As the record Anthony Weaver has been making some noise getting the attention of the coaching staff. 
"He's talented," Davie said. "He's a kid at goals are clear, 
•
250 pounds because of his leverage, strength and his hopes are the same as every Irish fan 
and quickness, he's got to develop but it looks across the nation. like he could help this football team. I'm "My priorities are pretty simple and that is excited about him." · preparing this football team," Davie said. 
As the weeks of grueling two-a-days have "The other thing to get excited about is to get ended and the '98 season kicks off in less Notre· Dame football back and moving in a than a week, the defensive line hopes that it positive direction to get it back on top." 

Soccer 
continued from page 16 
forward was knocked on the knee by a diving Wiggins. Suffering severe bruising on the knee, Aris is hoping to be back for the season opener. One of the team's "go to" play­ers, Aris knows what the team needs to finish the attack with a goal. 
"We need to find the fron­trunners feet early and in the air," he explained. "Rebounds up front are also necessary for us to take advantage of to win 

The Observer/John Daily 
games." 

Andrew Aris (right) and the pressure defense of the Irish held DePaul
With the talent and team­

to just six shots Friday. 
work the Irish showcased in 

Friday's match, the team is "Everyone's excited," com­•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 
prepared for the regular sea­mented Johnson. "We just have son. to go out there and prove it." I I 


I Have you thought about I 
I I I I I I I I 
I becoming a I I I I I I I 
I I 




I Catechist? I 
I I I I 
I IIJ I 
I I I 0MPUS I I MINISTRY I I I I I I * Do you enjoy working with children or adolescents? I I *Can you give two hours ofyour time each week? I I * Would you welcome the challenge to articulate your faith? I I I * Would you like to be a valuable asset to a local parish? I I I * Would you be interested in becoming a certified catechist? I 
I I I I I I I I 
I If you can answer YES to any or all of these questions, I 
I I 
I come find our more about becoming a Catechist. I I I I I I Pick-up applications at Badin Hall-Campus Ministry, I 
I I 
I and attend our information session on: I I I I I I I Wednesday, September 2; 4:30 P.M. I I 
I Montgomery Theatre I 
I I I I 

I 1st. floor LaFortune Student Center I I I I I I I
Any questions? Call John or Sylvia Dillon at 631-5242 
I I I I 




r--------------------------------·---------------------------------~---------------------------­
Monday, August 31, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 15 

PARK" T·SHIRT.

___._\.~Jlu 
i 
\ 

Dll RFRT 
..1 A CALCU·
'THE FIRST DAY oF 
SCHooL. 'YoU CAN '-hv ---T"''A-• LAloR 
WEAR THAT SHIRT ToMoRRoW. 
\... 
YOU SHOULD 
NEVER 5£.TILE FOR. T~ LESSER OF ~ 
TWO WEASELS. ...., 
..__ _ ___, r------1 ~
.• 
:::> 
~ 
0 

65 Thunderstruck 66 Without further 
68 Tropical fruit 69 Dead duck 70 Fish off Nova 
Scotia 71 Vicinities 72 Squid defenses 73 US Airways 
competitor 74 West Yorkshire city 
DOWN 

1 Pouches 2 Type of type: 
Abbr. 3 Shoestring 4 Do tailoring on 5 Boo-boo/ 
Students 6 Work out in a ring 7 Shade of blond 8 Pageant crown 9 Carson's 
Puzzle by Mary E. Brindamour 
successor 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
10 Loosen  27 Sour  49 Southern power  59 Desert Storm  
11 Dance bit  29 Scrabble  provider: Abbr.  vehicle  
12 For the woman  piece  51 "20 Questions"  60 She sheep  

=CASE.' 
~ 

/;: 
SCOTT ADAM~ 
ITS NICE., BUT THE WEASEL DOWN THE STP-.EET IS SELL[NG IT FOR. LES 5. 
NOW ii-IAT YOU MENTION IT I IT DID SEEM TOO CON\JENlENT. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE 
CELEBIUTIES BORN ON rillS DAY: Ilebb~t• ( :ibson, Rich.ml GL'fl', )a me; Ct>bum. M.1rrin l'IMk 
llappy llirlhd.1y: You wl!l h.II'L' pll'nty llf ~OlHi tth:.J~ tl11s year. ~o Jon't ju~t ~it tlwn• ·-h1·t moving. Now i~ tlw tmw to milk~· llw Ohl\'C' you'VL' hl'l'll wa1ting to tTHll--P. Yuu have bt'L'n w.lt~..·iHilg L'\'L'rytmc around you gC't ,1lwad, but 1'\ll\\' it's tllnl' to forus on your own a~.xomplishnwnts. Th<• change" y..u w,mt I<> n1.1ke will only happen if vou an• dt•tcrmillcJ to make them hcJprcn. Your numbers: 5, ·14, 23, 27, 31, 41 
ARIES (March 21-April Jq): You arl' in thl' mood tn party. Makt• some arrang(•ments to nwd fril'nds ,11 your local dance club. You likely will mL'et an intereshng individual (h,Jt yuu will want to g<'t to know lwttcr. 00000 
TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Don't IC'nd your money or borrow it from friL•nds. Gt•t-rich-quick ~chcrnrs will not be successfu I You arc• likely to have difficulties with older or younger females. 000 
GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Your domestic scene will continue tn fester today. Try tn keep to ynurself busy by working diligl'ntly nn all your domes­he chores and responsibilities. 000 
CANCER (june 21-July 22): Pro­fessionalism will be of uhnost impor­tance, as always. Your boss may be on the rampage and vou don'l want to be the one lo take the brunt of the bad situation that he or she faces. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Family outings that aren't too cosily will be enjoyable and certainly help strengthen ties. You can meet poten­tial new mates if you go out with friends or take pleasure trips. 00000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Don't 
Birthday Baby: You are much more then meets the eye. Mystical in man1· ways, you set your f\Oals high and never question whJt the possibilihe> are You're a visionary, eagt•r to ITmke your way through \-vhatever life has tu otter in order to find your purpose. (NL"L'd advice? Call EugL'nia at 900-484-7827. Your phonL' company will bill you $J.Y9 per minute.) · © 1 W~ Unl\ ~·n..lll'n·~-. S\'nJk11tl·  
• OF INTEREST Mens and Women's Track and Field -All students interested in trying out should attend a meeting on Sept. 9 at 4 p.m. in the Loftus football auditorium. Pleas(:) contact the track office at 1-6155 for more information. Women's Tennis -Tryouts will be held on Sept. 9 for all interested players. Call Liz Barker at 1-3730 for more information. Sports Officials -HecSports is looking for flag foot· ball, fastpitch softball, baseball nnd soccer offidals for the fall interhall season. Good pay and flexiblo hom·s. Call DeMond Thomas or Jeff Walker at 1-3536 or 1· 4437 for more information. Men's Tennis Tryout Tout'Dament ­Sign-up at the Eck Tennis Pavillion. There will be a meeting at 3:30 p~m, on Sept. 10 at Eck. Please contact Mike Morgan .,,at 1~4841 or 1-6929 with any questions.  - 
Wanted: Reporters, photographers and editors. Join The Observer staff.  •  

EUGENIA LAST 
h't situatum~ ~1'1 out of hr~nd M,tlo..L' sun• that you lhl\'l' llll tlw ~wrtuwnt !;lets hl'forP t.tl..mg .mv ~Ktllm LliM· mformation from sonH•orw trrm~ 111 slcHI probll'ln1'-Ill ~·our IIIL' ,.. 111-.L•l\ 00 
LlllHA !Sq'l. 23-0cl. 22): )nur mind \viii bl' pn•occupiL•d Bl' c("lrl'iul whik oper.1ting ,, l"l'hicle ur .my k111d ol equipment or machinl'r\' You rnav fmd that .SOilll'Olll' i..:. tryinv; to undt•r­muu• vou. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 211: l'rob­ll'ms with inlwrit.mcl' or other lmpor­tdnt docum<·nts are likelv RL·dd bt•tween the luws lwfore y'ou :;.ign your n,1me. Mim'r fl'vt•rs llr infections will develop if you'Vl' l'>.h~lu:-.kd yt~urwlf.OOO 
SAGITfARIUS (Nov. 22·Dec. 211: Don't let your partner <\arl f'<'ltv arguments. Passion ~hould lw tlH' answL'r. Your mate m11y lw pl'rturbt·d il you refuse to makt• a comm1tnwnt to vnur rPiationsh1p with him or lwr 000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Disagreements with femalt• col· leagues may lead to problems w1th your boss. Don't confide in relatives who have the iL'nd••n')' to meddle 111 other people's affairs. 000 
AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): You will do extremely well in compeiJtl\'e sports events. Ynu cdn curb nr cut ~)LII that bad habit y<>u'w been mt•amng to do something about A strung willpower will come tn your re~cue 0000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): L·sr your charm to get your own way. Romantic opportunities will lw plen­tiful if you gel out with friends. You will be pleased with the way ynu't•e beautified your home. 00 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
"'inn· il "a'-. .1 lung jounu·.'. llu· litlh· 
1111111 1n-~IO\\\'il upou /.\U:H (\\0 tHH)!,i­
l'Jii "'"'"" ·'"" al!t·d l'mno th•· lli11i11g 1.------ll:oll 11 n·d.. agl'. 
Lool<! so You HAVE oNE FoR EACH vJRIS/.' 

FOXTROT 
! WHAT'S IT'S ll-IE SHIRT [ THIS? I BoUGHT 'You To WEAR ToDA't'. 
~ \ I 
BuT I 
WANT 

To WEAR HAVE You [ oNE DA'Y. HoW BAD M'f "SOUTH LikE A SLoB oN ~ CAN THAT BE?.' 
'iuddt·nh. 11 ith :111 l'\l'l'"ion ol' lin· a1ul hrina,lo•u·. H \\ id,t:d rigun· "JIJil'lll"l'd. 
" 

PETER foX, I'M iii I'M ASKIN& 'YOU To NoT 6otN6 To !!: DRESS N1CEL"1 FoR 
DAN SULLIVAN 
BILL AMEND 
HEY, LooK! DEAR WRoNG·O, MoRToN LORD. GIRLS! GoLDTHWAIT HE'S NoT
I 
HAS A TWIN! WEAR•NG 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 
1 "---Marner" 6 Plopped (down) 9 Luxurious 
13 To any degree 14 The Beatles' 
"--Love You" 15 French income 16 Prickly plants 17 "Gotcha!" 18 Terminator 19 Train car I Strips 
again 21 Hooks back up I Winder 23 Chess's--­
Lopez opening 24 Early baby word 25 Time in history 28 Tennis's 
Sampras 30 Did a no-no I Comics pest 35 Treaty 
37 Some paintings 39 Ace plus one 40 Above 41 What each word 
of six or more letters in this puzzle does 
43 Kind of talk 44 Bo of "10" 46 60's singer 
Sands 47 Pencil filler 48 Writer Hubbard I 
Grow threefold 50 Sicilian peak 52 Blvds. 53 Profess 55 Opposite of a 
ques. 57 Security guard I ID at a party 61 No-goodnik I Patches, as a sweater 

.;::.+:,.:+;+:::-l 15 Newly placed I Telephoner 
20 newt (witch's ingredient) 
22 Sullivan and Harris 24 Bring to the door I Hugely unpopular 25 Lyric poem 26 "Bolero" composer 

31 Simon or 
Diamond 32 Art subjects 33 Brilliance 34 Scout's good 
works 36 Genealogy 
display 38 Roasting rod 42 French 
legislature 45 "Seinfeld" guy I Comment 

category I Layer 61 Fizzy drink 54 Put into effect 62 On bended -­56 Entangle 63 "Holy moly!" 57 1958 musical 64 Supreme Diana 58 "Mr. X" 67--Jones 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (95¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
~l?:@~~@)@@W ®!tAll®~ ~~~® 11'@ ((~~® 
*FREE FOOD *LIVE MUSIC 
-
*BANNER CONTEST 
COME TO STONEHENGE AND HElP THE STUDENT GOV'T CHEER ON THE IRISH! SPonsored bY your Student Gov't and Classes of ·gg, ·oo, ·o1. ·oz 



• Sammy Sosa hits his 
• Perennial Irish rival 
54th homer at Coors 
USC starts football sea­
Field to tie McGwire in 
son hosting in-state 
the chase for Roger 
rival Purdue. 



PORTS 
Maris' record. 
p.JO 



• MEN's SoccER 
Irish down DePaul 3-1 
Team takes exhibition win into start of season 
The Observer/John Daily Junior toward Andrew Aris netted the third goal in Friday's 3-1 victory over DePaul. Aris suffered a bruised knee on the play and is looking to recover for Tuesday's season opener. 
O THE 
Monday, August 31, 1998 BSERVER 
• fOOTBALL 


D-line key to Irish success 
By JOE CAVATO to town in less than a week. Associate Sporrs Ediror Now the time comes for questions to be answered. One 
The pre-season is conclud­of the most alarming questions ing, and with it ends all the is: How will the defensive line talk about how the Irish will replace Melvin Dansby and his rebound from last year's 7-6 1 00-plus tackles? season as the co-champs come Defensive coordinator Greg 
Mattison 

I 
I also lost his I nose guard
I 
I in Corey I' Bennett 
' ~ 
I and with returning
' 
r starters ~ B r a d
t 
Williams a n d Lamont Bryant missing spring practice because of injury, the defensive front looks f o r answers. 
T h e coaching staff hopes they have t h o s e answers

-
with names like Lance Legree and Antwon Jones at Wisne and Anthony Weaver at ends. 


nose  guard  and  
Williams,  B.J.  Scott,  
Jason  Ching,  Andy  

"At nose guard Lance Legree started some last year and played a lot and Antwon Jones has been around a long time," head coach Bob Davie said. "So we've got two guys there with potential." 
Last season the defen­sive line was over­matched at times and in attempts to halt that trend an aggressive off­season weight program was installed. 
"What has happened with the off-season weight program is guys have gotten a lot stronger and a lot big­ger," defensive line coach Charlie Strong said. "They got weight which we needed and any time you get bigger and stronger .it's only going to help you with things you need to do. Being stronger allows us to be more aggressive which is one of our goals." 
If getting bigger is all it takes then the Irish should be able to hold their own, as the line is definitely meatier than last 
p.ll 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Nose guard Antwon Jones (85) and the Irish defensive line hope to rebound from last season through an aggressive off-season weight training program. 
season's unit. ing 290 pounds. Ching has 
Sophomore rush linebacker recovered from various ail­Grant Irons is up to 255 after ments and now checks in at a playing at 220 last season. healthy 284 pounds. Legree weighs in at a whop-Irons provided the biggest ping 292 pounds, and Brad surprise last spring when he Williams is healthy and push-
see D-LINE I page 14 
, 
.. 
By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Sporrs Writer 
Gaining a footing on their new focus of play, the Irish capitalized on both the defense and the attack to score a 3-1 win Friday night against DePaul in the final exhibition match of the season. 
The Blue Demons came away with the first goal 18:37 into the first half on a goal by Demetrio Sanchez, assisted by Dan Dembriac and Joe Ahearn. That was all DePaul would see of the net, as they only passed off five more shots in the remaining 72 minutes of play. 
Notre Dame controlled play for most of the match as they came off with 21 shots in the contest. Despite the stellar ball movement in the mid­field, the Irish faced some problems completing the drives with quality scoring chances. Of the 21 shots, Dave Wiggins, the Blue Demon goal­keeper, only saved four and had three pass by for Irish goals. 
"We had a lot of opportunities," explained junior Matt McNew. "We took a lot of far shots when we should have increased the percent­ages by passing the ball closer to the goal." 
McNew started the Irish scoring just under three minutes after the DePaul goal on an upfield lofted pass from Dave Cutler that was one hun­dred percent go'IJ. McNew, a defend­er his first two seasons on the squad, will be moving back to the sweeper spot for the season opener on Tuesday against Valparaiso. He will give the Irish experience for a defense that has and will carry the team. 
"Our defense is our strength," said team co-captain Matt Johnson. "You score goals with good defense, it all starts there." 
The Irish's full pressure defense played a big part in the contest on Friday, allowing the team to snatch up Blue Demon possesions and run to the net. The finishes, explains Johnson, will come with time. 
"We're playing real well together. We're getting more scoring opportu­nities, and that will build into the goals we need with more practice." 
The first half of the game Friday was the best practice for Notre Dame's second half, where 11 shots equated to two goals. The first came with 25:49 left on the clock from Ben Bocklage. An unassisted goal, Bocklage found a loose ball at the left corner of the 18-yard box that he fired to the left of Wiggins to give the Irish the lead for good. 
The Irish added their third goal less than ten minutes later just out­side the goal box on a play that start­ed on a Scott Wells corner kick. Wells broke for the scramble in front of the net, came up with the ball and dished it off to Andrew Aris for the goal. 
The goal saw Aris lying on the field after the shot came off, as the junior 
see SOCCER I page 14 
vs Michigan Volleyballat Valparaiso 
September 5, 2:30 p.m. ~\(\' at Manchester

SPORTS 

September 1, 7 p.m. ~'~ September 1, 7 p.m. 
at Michigan State 
-·" ..._

-
ATA 
\:~ September 1, 4 p.m. 

Cross Country Soccer 
1fl. it 

vs Valparaiso vs Loyola, Purdue, Butler· vs Valparaiso

GLANCE 

t!fK September 1, 7:30 p.m. September 12, 11 a.m. September 2, 4:30 p.m. 




