

Wednesday, January 21, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 74 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 



By MELANIE GARMAN 
A<sistanr Saint Mary's News Editor 
Tomorrow will mark the beginning of the eighth annual Play of the Mind conference at Saint Mary's College. Students and faculty from 12 different Catholic women's colleges across the nation will be pre­SEmt this weekend to discuss ty working on a campus college project with the same interest in developing and strengthening the intellectual community. A focus group discussion of pro­fessors sparked the idea, and the Play of the Mind was even­tually developed. 
The conference is funded by the Student Government Association and the U.S. 
Mind conference with a unique theme which describes the direction the weekend will take. "Borders to Bridges -The Women's College Challenge" is this year's theme of the confer­ence and encompasses every aspect of women as leaders both inside and outside of the classroom. 
"We want the women to feel sometimes feel that they must be everything to themselves and everyone around them. That is when we created the Play of the Mind conference." 
Over the years, as the focus and direction of the conference have changed and grown, two factors have remained constant. First, all voices have equal weight, and second, real change always an abundant amount of talk and planning on both the students and faculty behalves." White said. "Some exciting dis­coveries that originated during the Play of the Mind confer­ences were Clarissa Dalloway's Coffeehouse, The Community Leadership Team(COLTs), stu­dent involvement in last year's presidential search, the page 2 
issues of intellectual growth. msponsibility, and leadership. Thn idea for the conference began in 1991 with a group of Saint Mary's students and facul- Department of Education Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education. Each year Saint Mary's College hosts the Play of the  the liVeliness and excitement for life both inside and outside of the classroom," said Patrick White, associate dean of faculty and project director. "Students  and innovation have always proceeded. "We are never exactly sure what the conference will have in store for us, however there is  Women's Center and the Student Academic Council newsletter." see PLAY I page 8  
-­ -~-----------­ 

• INSIDE COLUMN 
Get it while 
you can 
On Monday, the music-;~~~~~~~ 
world lost yet another in a string of great musi­cians who have gone on to the big jam session in ... no, I won't say it. Upon returning home after a thrilling night at the local bowling alley, this writer 


flipped  on CNN (not on  
purpose)  and  saw  a  Matt Loughran  
tribute to the recently  Associate News Editor  
deeeased  rockabilly  
legend Carl Perkins.  

Perkins' northwest Tennessee sound inspired a whole generation of blues and rock musicians ineluding Elvis Presley and the Beatles. !lis song, "Blue Suede Shoes," gets audiences up and daneing still, more than 30 years after he first recorded it. 
lie had a cheery demP.anor at all times and, in an intP.rviP.w included in that CNN tribute, asked that he be remembered for his more emotional, hopeful songs like, "Daddy Sang Bass," a hit for Johnny Cash years ago. 
His death adds to the pallor over the blues, soul and rock worlds fueled by the deaths of Johnny Copeland, Luther Allison and "The Godfather of the Blues" Junior Wells. 
While Copnland and Allison were little known bluesmen that had just recently begun to gain prominence, Wells' death last week shook the blues community, even though it was not much of a surprise. llis status as the greatest electric Chicago blues harmonica since "Littln" Walter Jacobs was well dnserved. lin played with the Muddy Waters hluns band (taking Jacobs' place) before he was even 20 ynars old. 
A story drculates that Wells snuck into the club that Muddy Waters was playing in Chicago and asked to play. Muddy said he could play for any tips that he might get from the crowd. lie went home that night with more mcmey than Jacobs. 
Anyone who had a chance to. listen to Junior Wells and his friend Buddy Guy per­form live has experienced the ecstasy of what the real blues is all about. The best example of this occurs on the "Southside Blues .Jam," album with Otis Spann on the piano, which is not actually a live album, but has the jam session feel of a live show. 
The idea that so many great musicians have been silc~nced in the last few months drives home the point that an end of a gener­ation is coming in blues and rock and roll. The great ones of old who have taught us so much are disappearing quickly and if we don't listnn up we might just miss the mes­sage as dnlivPrnd by thn messang'l"lr. 
True, recordings exist of all of these stars, but there is nothing like seeing the face of an artist like Stevie Hay Vaughan contort and twist as he struggles with his seemingly direct line to that spiritual plane of music. 
Any chancn that you get to see these greats telling you tlwir stories and intimate thoughts, please go. I had a chance to go to the Junior Wells show at Buddy Guy's Lngends club in Chicago last January, a per­formance that turned out to be his last live show. I didn't and have been kicking myself nver since. 
.Junior, Johnny, Jerry, Luther, Carl and all thosH that came before you, we will miss what you brought to our lives. 
I'.S. Bob Dylan and Van Morrison are now touring the country together. Watch for the show to come near you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TOOAY's STAFF  
News  
Christine Kraly  Graphics  
Sean Smith  Jon King  
Sports  Production  
Brian Kessler  Mark DeBoy  
.Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Kelly Brooks  Patrick Quigley  
Accent  
Nora Meany  
Rachel Torres  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacarion periods. The Observer is a member of du:· Associafcd Prcs11. All rcproducfion right~ are rcscrved. 
Wednesday, January 21, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 

Cause of art student's death remains undetermined 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. 

Erie Earl Sidney died Thursday doing what he loved most in life. He was sketching in an art studio in Morgan Hall. 
WhPn a friend discovered the 24­year-old graduate student lying face down on the floor around 8 p.m., a pencil was still tightly clasped in his hand. His family and friends, includ­ing 16 Indiana University art stu­dents, gathered in Independence, Mo., Sunday to mourn Sidney. "It didn't seem real; it still doesn't," said his mother, Shirlie Sidney, Monday before the funeral. 
Monroe County Coroner George Huntington .Jr. said the autopsy found fluid in his lungs, ruling out the possi­bility of a heart attack. The official cause of death will not be known for at least another two weeks when all tests are completed. 
"If it were a highly contagious con­dition, it would have been noticed," 

The friend urged him to go to the emergency room, but Eric said he was feeling better and did not w<lht to go. 
Shirlie said her son complained about tightening in his chest during the past year. She also said he recent­ly quit smoking but might have pieked up the habit again. She said he exer­cised regularly, running four miles and doing 200 pushups every day. 
IU Police Department Lt. Jerry Minger said Eric was last seen at 7::~0 
p.m. Thursday when hn helped move a mirror into Morgan llall. Minger said IUPD received a call at 8:50 p.m. Less than an hour aftnr his body was found, police contacted Eric's mothBr. 
Erie eame to IU in August to study art-his life's passion, which lw dis­covered during his undergraduate education at Southwnst Missouri State UnivBrsity. lie told his mother during winter break that IU had contributed a lot to what he loved to do. 
"lie didn't feel as if he had any tal­ent. It all came from hard work," Shirley said about lwr late son. 
• UNIVERSITY Of MICHIGAN 
Athletes experience first -hand segregation 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
University athletes were given the opportunity to experi­
ence segregation first-hand at Cliff Keen Arena yesterday. 
As part of a program consisting of short skits and mono­
logues presented by 35 student representatives from a vari­
ety of varsity sports, the audience of about 500 student-ath­
letes ween seated according to height. The tall and short ath­
letes who attended were allowed to sit in the front of the 
arena, while those who were "average" height were pushed 
to the back. During the event, those sitting in the front were 
treated to lollipops and soda, while those in the back sipped 
from cups of water. Michigan football player Terrence 
Quinn, who helped produced yesterday's program, said the 
event aimed to remind students of the adversity black people 
have faced. "I am sure the experiment will change some 
minds about what really went on during Martin Luther 
King's struggle," Quinn said. Athletic Director Tom Goss said 
the program gave athletes an opportunity to share with each 
other what segregation is all about. 
• UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA 
Students protest police brutality 
MINNEAPOLIS, Minn. 
More than 200 people of all ages, races and backgrounds marched almost two miles in the streets of downtown Minneapolis Monday afternoon to protest police brutality. The rally began just after 2 p.m. on the mall in front of the HBnnepin County Government Center. After a brief state­ment from organizers, the procession set out for St. Michael's Church in South Minneapolis. More than 15 peo­ple from the University, including members of the Progressive Student Organization, the University Young Women and University faculty joined the protest. Onlookers honked and waved as protesters' cries of "If we don't get no justice, they don't get no peace," and "The people, united, ' will never be defeated," echoed off the downtown buildings. The protesters were calling for terroristic threat charges against 15-year-old Lawrence Miles Jr. and assault charges against 37-year-old Andre Madison to be dropped. 
• UNIVERSITY OF fLORIDA 
Florida president Lombardi to resign 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. 
UF President .John Lombardi will remain at UF but not in 
the capacity of its highest-ranked administrative leadBr, a 
state official said Monday. According to Steve Uhlfelder, 
chairman of the Board of Hegents, Lombardi has agreed to 
resign as president, following the public disdosure of a slur 
he made toward new Chancellor Adam Ilerberl. lie called 
the first black chancellor of Florida's State University System 
an "Orco." UhlfBider said Lombardi will stay on at UF as the 
head of an academic. institutP, most likeiy in the art)a of 
Latin American Studies, which is one of Lombardi's aeadem­
ic areas of expertise. lie will retain his current salary 
$238,000 for one year, after whieh time he will receive 10­
percent pay cuts for three years, Uhlfelder said. Uhlfelder 
said the Board of Regents, the 14-member panel that over­
sees Florida's public universities, are waiting for Lombardi 
to decide exactly when he will n~sign. "It's bonn terrible. l'vn 
agonized over this," Uhlfelder said of tlw "gentlnman's 
agreement" that still is in the works. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
Students sign petition to oppose ban 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
Like Proposition 187 and Proposition 209 beforP it, the 
Unz initiative, otherwise known as "English for thn 
Children" ballot proposal, is on its way to becoming 
California's next political hot topie dealing with l)thnieity 
and nationality. Written by Silicon Vallny software 
entrepreneur Hon Unz, the initiative would put an end 
to bilingual education in California schools. Unz, along 
with anti-bilingual education lobby Onn Nation/One 
California, is campaigning to plael) the~ proposal on tlw 
June 1998 ballot. MEChA (Movimiento Estudiantil 
Chicana y Chicano de Aztlan) is currently campaigning 
against the proposal. The group has 1:olleeted OVI)I" 700 
signatures from UCLA students opposing the initiative. 
The petition was presented to Los Angeles Unified 
School District, who a week later voted to oppose thn 
legislation. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL WEATHER 
5 Day South Rend Forecast AccuWeather~ forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
The AccuWeather<B>torecast tor noon, Wednesday, Jan. 21. 
/.::........................................ 
j'""-....~--~·· 

H L 
I 
I 

Thursday q·:· .·:· ::· 34 25 
·:· ·:· 
i 

Friday ~­34 24 Saturday ~ 29 21 
\


Sunday ~J; 34 24 
COLD WARM STATIONARY 

C 1998 AccuWeather. Inc 

~ 
Pressure 

H L B ISS! [TI] 0 . [Zj Q (} ~ u

Monday .5~ 35 24 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT. CLOUDY CLOUDY
-~~_..d'-~...............; .."..;..1 
VIa .Usoclll/ffd Pntss 

Atlanta 45 36 Dallas 50 33 Miami 75 61 Baltimore 37 36 Denver 41 22 New York 39 33


4,Q,Q,9,Q,Qi) ~ u 
Boise 42 36 Honolulu 79 66 Phoenix 69 50 
Showers. T-storms Rain Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Chicago 32 28 Indianapolis 30 18 St. Louis 27 18 
V1a Associatad Press GraphiCSNet 
Columbus 31 17 Los Angeles 59 54 Santiago 88 6:~ 
~--------------------------------------~-----------------------------------------------------­
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS 


Ellis establishes fund for -hometown students 
By CHRISTINE KRALY 
News Writer 
In thn tradition of a growing gr·oup of formnr Notn~ Dame ath­lntns which ineludns Chris Zorich. .Johnny Lujack, and JeromP Bnttis. LaPhonso Ellis has estab­lislwd a scholarship endowment at tlw University of Notre Dame. Ellis. a 1992 graduate of the University and mern~Pr of the NBA's DmlVer Nuggets, has cre­ah~d an opportunity for aspiring 
< 

Notre Dame students in his hometown of East St. Louis, Ill. 
The scholarship will be imple­mented at tho beginning of tho 1998-99 academic year and will be offered to students who attend either East St. Louis Senior Iligh School or East St. Louis Lincoln High School, from which Ellis graduated in 1988. 
"We are deeply appreciative that 'Phonz' is helping in this area [financial aid] while also assisting young people from his 
Interested in Doing Research at a World-Class Research Institute? 
Undergraduate Summer lnsternships 
The Environmental Research Institute, a joint activity of Notre Dame & Argonne National Laboratory (ANL), in collaboration with the Center for Environmental Science & Technology will award up to three Summer 1998 internships at ANL in Argonne, IL-with a follow-up campus research appointment in the Fall. Stipend, room & board are provided for the 10-week program. 
Student applicants should have research interests in an environmentally-related discipline (any field of study) concerned with or likely to contribute tothe understanding, assessment, or improvement of the environment. Applicants must be US citizens or permanent residents, enrolled at Notre Dame, have completed their junior Year by May 1998 and be registered to return in the Fall of 1998. 
For more details, contact the Center for Environmental 
Science & Technology: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall, 631 "8376. 
Applicants will be required to complete an application. 
hometown," said Father William Beauchamp, the University's executive vice president. 
"It was an opportunity to give back," said Jeffrey Pethick, schol­arship coordinator for the Office of Financial Aid. "It's rare that you hear about some of the great things that the graduates have done to help out either here at the University or in their commu­nities. "With this new scholar­ship, Ellis seems to be doing both. 
"I think it was a way for LaPhonso to do something for the University and for the kids at East St. Louis High School," said Notre Dame basketball coach John MacLeod, who has also cre­ated a scholarship for the University. 
Ellis joins many Notre Dame student athletes in establishing financial aid for aspiring stu­dents. "Athletes tend to have pretty positive experiences at whatever college they go to," said assistant director of Sports Information Michael Enright. "They [athletes] feel a bit of debt to the University for what the University and what college sports have done for them. They also feel a great warmness for their alma mater." 
page 3 



Students 
. 


to march in capital 
BY KRJSTJ KUTSCH Assistant News Editat 
In protest of the 25th 
anniversary of the Roe v. 
Wade de(1ision which 

legalized abortion, 150 
Notre Dame and Saint 
Mary's students will par­

ticipate in the annual 
"March for Life,» held in 

Washington D.C. 
The "March for Life" demonstration is sched­uled for thursday, Jan. 22, and will include pro­life supporters from around the world. The 150 students attending the protest from South Bend are members of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's Right to Life organization. The students left yester­day for Washington D.C. and will be returning on Friday, Jan. 23. 
Heather De Jesus, an active meillber of Right to Life is a staunch pro-life supporter and very excit,. ed about the demonstra­tion. 
"I believe that rela­tivism had taken over, and that abortion has· become a casual option," she said. She also believes that giving life has lost its original mean­ing as a· result of the Roe 
v. Wade decision. 
tired ol being d.d. and h11ling to 
oav three bucksJo&~a Grift;» -;. · 
.. • . .:-;j;. • •·;.: , .... """'"'~ i~~. . ' 
.-,. 

get the new 

special thanks to 
participating businesses= 
designated drivers simPIV have to 
alumni-senior club bridget mcguire's ··bw-3's
tlash the card to receive 

· cj's club 23





complementarv son drinks at 
coach's linebacker


participating area businesses. 
madison oyster bar · ·. mccormick's cards are available in student government l2nd floor lafonuneJ, mishawaka brewing co. the oHice of dreg &alcohol education lmezzanine level of lafonuneJ or through vour hall presidents starting wednesdav. 

student government
& the office of drug and alcohol education 

r 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 21, 1998 

Bradley 
continued from page 1 
"HoP said that abortion was a libPrty right. and llw [Supreme! Court aecnptnd that at face valuP." lw t~xplainPd. 
"Tiw SuprPnw Court had an opportunity to mcognize tlw pPr­sonhood of unborn children, yet instPad tlwy n~quirPCI the unborn to provP tlwir rasP without a shadow of a doubt," Bradley stat­Pd. 
Although tlw hearing will unlikPiy n•sult in any congrns­sional IPgislation, it is an ocr.a-

Decision 
continued from page 1 
which bPcamP onP of tlw most 
rontrovnrsial dPc:isions in judi­
cial historv. 
Bon v·. Wade officially dnclan~d that a woman has a right to privacy that is protected by tlw 14th amPJHinwnt, which ailows lwr thl' rhoien to abort a ldus. Although tlw court n~eog­n i z P d t lw i m portan e e oI' a woman's right to her body, it also sympathizPd with a state's intlwnst in presPrving life. 
Tlw Supnmw Court outlined a rationaln to lw used in doter­mining wlwn state intervention was qualiliml. Blackmun wrote: "For thn stag~~ prior to tlw nnd of tlw lirst trimnstPr, thn abor­tion decision rn ust be left to the nwdiral judgnwnt or the preg­nant woman's attending physi­cian." 
In tlw sPcond and third trimt~stnrs. Blackmun reeog­niznd tlw state's intnrcst in pro­tecting thn woman's health and formnd the outline for future abortion legislation. 
The rnsult was subsequent attnmpts at abortion legislation, somn which failt~d. but others whil:h WPrP successful. In 197(> Congrnss passnd tlw llyde Anwndnwnt. which banned tlw usn of Mndicaid and othPr fnd­nral funds for abortions. This legislation was upheld by the Supmmn Court four ynars lat1~r. 
Yet from 1976 to 1981 a judi­cial tn~nd nxistnd whieh provid­ml little 1mcouragPment for the pro-life cause. ThP courts struck down numerous state laws during this time which infringed upon a woman's deci­sion to havn an abortion. 
In I<JR9. a countervailing opinion on thn Supreme Court provided the pPrf'eet backdrop for a rnvnrsal of the Hoc v. Wadn dncision. The test came in the form of a case entitled Wnbstnr v. Heproductive llealth Services. In this case, HPproductive llealth Services challenged a Missouri abortion statute which stated that life sion to evaluate where current scholarly, constitutional and moral opinions lie, Bradley said. lie hopes to persuade the sub­committee to reject the majority opinion in Roc v. Wade and rec­ognize the constitutional incon­sistencies that the opinion holds. 
Although Bradley would like to see a challenge to Roe v. Wade, lw belinves that "the Supreme Court is not going to reverse its decision any time soon ... at least for a d1~cade." 
Bradley recognizes that change is still in the future, although he also lwlieves that a judicial tnmd to be morn forgiving to abortion rngulation currently exists. 
begins at conception, and that unborn children have intcrPsts that need to be protectnd. The law also prohibited the usP of publie employees and facilities to pPrform abortions not nPcPs­sary to save a woman's life. 
Many hoped that the Suprem1~ Court would rule in Missouri's defense and inadvertently rnversn the Hoe v. Wade deci­sion. The decision did ·support the Missouri statute, yet the Supreme Court did not have the majority to overturn the earlier decision. Hather, the Wnbster dedsion narrowed the seope of Hoe v. Wade and providml pro­life supporters with hope. 
More hope arrived in 1992, when the Supreme Court heard tlw case Planned Parenthood v. Casey. In this case, tlw Supmmc Court upheld numer­ous provisions of the Pnnnsylvania Abortion Control Aet of 1982. The court upheld a 24-hour waiting period law, a parental consent law and a pro­vision which imposed certain reporting requirements on facil­ities providing abortion services. 
Although this case did not altnr the basic premise of Roe v. Wade, it did demonstrate the court's toleration of abortion regulation. 
In 1994. despite her position over two decades earlier, Norma McCorvey, alias .lane Hoe, was befriended by Flip Benham, the national director • of Operation Rescue, and dndared to the world her pro­lifi~ position. In 1995, McCorvey was baptized as a Christian. 
As the world celebrates the 25th anniversary of Hoe v. Wade this Thursday, thousa,nds of people will gather to protest abortion in the annual "Mareh for I.ifc" held in Washington D.C. 
The decision still stands sound on its original constitutional principle. yet many regulations and subsequent cases have chipped away at the scope of the Roe v. Wade case. The debate over abortion still con­sumes _much public attention, and the future consistency of the court is unknown. 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 

Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Winter Clearance Sale! 

30% OFF MANYTITLES DURING JANUARY 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 
237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown 
South Bend. Open 10-5, Monday-Friday 
Always 10% offfor ND-SMC faculty & students! 

esc prepares seminars 
By LOUBEL CRUZ 
NewsWrirer 

As many students reflect upon their volunteer experi­ences over Christmas break. the Center for Social Concerns is preparing numerous semi· nars for the spring to allow other st\ldents to participate in two of Notre Dame's most valuable assets -service and social work. 
The CSC offers 13 to 14 educational service-related seminars throughout the year. The seminars are based on experiential and service inter· ests, focusing on issues such as poverty, justice, and peace. 
"After you face the injustice that is occurring, and you see the people in poverty and live with them, you put faces with the issues you hear about. That allows you to grow." said Andrea Ray. chairperson of the Experiential Learning Council, a group of students in charge of organizing and running the seminars. 
During this year's spring break, the esc will offer four seminars that students can join: Appalachia, Migrant Experience, tho Washington Seminar and the L'Arche Experien<~e. While the selec· tion allows for a variety of assorted and unique projects from which students can choose, all the programs have the same mission. 
«I believe that the best way to understand another cultun~ or person, whether it be a migrant farm worker or the poverty of Appalachia, is to live with them and that will open your eyes to another life," Hay said. 
In Appalachia, 100 Notre Dame students travel to the Appalachian region in Kentucky and provide work from health care assistance to home repair. Through these services. the students are able to study and celebrate thn culture and people living in the region, while also examin­ing rural issues and concerns. 
The Washington Seminar explores present issues through direct contact with members of Congress, embassy representatives. and church leaders. In Washington, students study social and political concerns, including national defense, democracy and environmen­tal pollution, while examining the poverty in our nation's capitol. 
In tho Migrant Seminar, tho o~jectivc !s to introduce stu­dents to the cultural and social issues that surround migrant farm labor. The stu­dents experienee the joys, hopes, and frustrations of' migrant farm workMs through involvement in their homes and lives. 
In the L'Arehn Exporiencn. participants travel to Daybreak, a community in Toronto, Canada, to work in an environment where those with and without disabilitins could live together. One of tlw most fundamontal belinf's at L'Archc is that people with mental handicaps have worth and dignity, and desnrvn fun­damental rights. 
"When you go to any of these seminars, you are ehal­lenged, you learn about your­self and Pnhance your knowl­edge,» Hay said. 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 

A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY, JANUARY 23rd FROM 9:00AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 

The CCC allocates student activity fees to clubs, advis­es clubs, and represents the interests of clubs in the Student Union and to the Administration. 
Contact Tony Siefring at 631-4078 
There are 3 positions open on each of these divisions: 
•Academic  •Athletic  
•Ethnic  •Social Service  
•Special Interest.  


Election Times And Location by division are: Wednesday, January 21 6pmCSC Social Service Clubs 7pm Foster Room, LaFortune Athletic Clubs Spm Foster Room, LaFortune Ethnic Clubs 

Wednesday, January 21, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• Vo:· f'lEws BRIEFS 
Ex-dictator will stand trial for human rights abuses 
SANTIAGO. Chile 

A Chilean judgf) agroml Tuesday to hear a 
lawsuit against former dictator (;en. 
Augusto l'inochet aceusing him of "homi­
r.i(h~. genor.idr and illegal burial of bodies" 
during his 17-year rule. Judge Juan 
Guzman of the Santiago Court of Appeals 
said lw will start procnedings Wednesday 
by !waring testimony from Communist 
Party prPsidPnt Gladys Marin. Chile's 
Communist Party. which filed the lawsuit, . 
hopns to block the 82-year-old Pinochet 
from assuming a lifotimo scat in the Senate. 
Tlw party's lawyer. Eduardo Contreras, 
also said the plaintiffs were seeking a mea­
surP of justicr for killings of its members. 
"This the beginning of a political and ethi­
cal vindication of our victims," he said. 
According to a report by the civilian gov­
nrnnwnt ·that succeedHd Pinochet in 1991, 
:~.197 pnoplo wero killed for political rea­
sons undPr his rule. including 1,102 who 
disappeared after being arrested by his 
socurity services. The prospect of blocking 
Pinochnt from taking his scat in the Senate 
is considen~d slim. PPrpP.trators of human 
rights abusP.s committed during his regime 
aro covPred by an amnesty law issued 
bPI'orP lw lnft pownr. 
Cloned cows may produce medicine for humans 
BOSTON 

On a ranch in Texas, a herd of cows is about to give birth to what may be the f.u~urn. of th~ pharmaceutical industry. Sewntlsts s<ud Tuesday they have devel­oped a tnchniquc for cloning genetically customiznd calvHs that will be able to pro­duce nwdirincs for humans in their milk. 'l~he ~irst cloned calves -George and Charhe -were born last week, giving hope that clonnd cows could become living phar­macnutical factories. "The applications for this in pharmaceutical production are enor­mous." said Dr. Stevon Stice of Advanced Cell Technology Inc., one of the collabora­tc~r·s in the project. Stice and the other prin­erpal researcher, James Robl of the University of Massachusetts in Amherst, said they will next try to use their tech­nique to have cows make human serum albumin. Albumin. a blood protein that ~egu.l<~tns the transfer of nuids in the body, rs errtrcal to people suffering from liver dis­P.asc. malnourishment. extreme burns, and other conditions. Cows that could produce human s11rum albumin would be a huge boon to hospitals, which are forced to rely on donatml blood for the 480 tons of albu­min needed rvcry year. 
Dow 
]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1590.14

7873.12 
+27.26 

II 
NYSE: 511.92 
+8.25 
S&P 500: 

978.60 +119.57 + 17.90 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 
("0!>11'·\:S\  I !CIS! R  ")•! II.)N<ir  S Cj,\IN  PBJCF  
CAMELOT COR!'  CAML  116.13  2.25  4.19  
CIIEM INTL I:'IJC  CXIL  114.29  1.00  1.875  
IJCX INC  DCXI  58.34  .656.3  1.78  
1\UTIRF.Y FOOO  BTRY  41.86  4.50  15.25  
I'RF.VJF.W TRAVEL  rTVL  -10.00  4.25  14.87  

BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 
ESCALON MF.IliCAI. ESCM 50.89 3.25 3.125 IIOMF.COM COMMS HCOM 44.72 3.437 4.25 MATRIX Sf.RVICf. MTRX 31.51 2.875 6.25 8X81NC EGIIT 31.18 3.3125 7.125 FIRSTAMER IIEALT FAHC 30.00 I.SO 3.50 
Two bombs kill II in Algeria 
AssOCIATED PRESS 
ALGIEHS, Algeria 
The head of a European delegation called on Algerian authorities Tuesday to be more open about the violence gnawing at their nation, but failed to persuade them to accept humanitari­an aid or grant access to journalists. 
As the 24-hour visit wound down, three envoys were reminded of the urgency of their mission when two bombs exploded, one inside an Algiers bus and another at a market in the town of Zeralda, killing up to 11 peo­ple. 
The visit by envoys from Britain, Austria and Luxembourg was the first joint Western effort to help end vio­lence that has killed an estimated 75,000 people since 1992. The delega­tion announced they will reopen the European Union office here, but at the same time urged the military-backed government to be less distrustful. Algeria "has everything to win by being more open." British Foreign Office Minister Derek Fatchett, the head of the mission, told a news con­ference Tuesday. 
The government has consistently refused to allow independent groups to undertake an investigation into the chronic violence. They have blocked human rights inquiries and have severely restricted journalists' access to the country. At the same time, Algerian authorities are notorious for underreporting the casualty counts from insurgent-led massacres that have been more commonplace in recent months. 
Algeria's minister for cooperation, Lahcene Moussaoui, on Tuesday reit­erated the government's refusal of humanitarian aid or an investigation into human rights. The government has often characterized such efforts as unnecessary meddling. 
Critics inside and outside the coun­try accuse the government of employ­ing torture, beating and other tactics in an effort to quell the insurgency by radical Muslims seeking an end to the current regime. 
The visit Monday and Tuesday appeared to be a break, however slight, from the isolation that has characterized Algerian dealings with the West in recent years. 
Fatchett announced that the 


European Union would reopen its office in Algiers "shortly" -a sign that such dialogue might continue. He also said th.e. EU had invited Algerian Foreign Mm1ster Ahmed Attaf for an official visit to Brussels and that the EU and Algeria planned "an exchange" of parliamentary delegations. 
In the latest attacks to beset the coun­try, hospital sources said Tuesday that four people were killed and 24 injured -two critically -in a bus explosion in Ben Aknoun, in the hills above this Mediterranean port city. 
It was the first such bombing inside the capital since the start of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan on Dec. 30, which has seen a new wave of violence. 
In Zeralda, 60 miles west of the capi­tal, another bomb hidden in a fruit and vegetable stand exploded at a market. Hospital sources said seven people were killed and up to 70 injured. Residents put the number at 3 dead and 30 injured. Officials did not comment on the bombing. 
The incidents appeared to be linked to the insurgency, which was triggered by the army's cancellation of 1992 legisla­tive elections. 
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 

page G The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT 
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME SUMMER SESSION 1998 COURSE LIST 
The 1998 summer session will begin on Monday, June 22 (enrollment), and end on Wednesday, August 5(final exams). Some courses-primarily in science, mathematics and languages-will begin and end before or after these dates. The summer session Bulletin will contain complete schedule information. The Bulletin will be avail· able at the Summer Session Office (207 Hurley Building) beginning on Friday, February 6. Infor­mation on summer courses, as it appears in the Bulletin, is also available at the summer session Web site (http://www.nd.edu/-sumsess/). 
Notre Dame continuing students -undergradu­ate and graduate students in residence during the spring semester of 1998 who are eligible to return in the fall-must use DART 1) to register · for summer courses and 2) to add or drop courses through Friday, June 26. The DART PIN (personal identification number) for summer will be sent to all continuing students in early March. Course call numbers, along with all other course informa-· tion, will be published in the Bulletin and at the Web site. 
DART will be available for summer registration from March 18 to June 26. Students may regis­ter or make schedule changes whenever they choose during this period; no appointment times are necessary. 
Students may register for summer session courses at any time up to the first day of the course. Students who decide to register after DART closes on Friday, June 26, must complete the standard summer session application/course selection form. 
Air conditioned and non-air conditioned housing and (optional) summer meal plans will be avail-· able. Forms for the~e services may be obtained at the Summer Session Office at any time during the spring semester. 
Tuition for the summer session of 1998 will be $208 per credit hour plus a $35 general fee. 

Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
AERO 499 Undergraduate Research 
AME 598 Advanced Studies 
AME 599 Thesis Direction 
AME 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
AME 699 Research and Dissertation 

AME 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research ME 321 Differential Equations and Applied Mathematics ME 327 Thermodynamics ME 334 Fluid Mechanics ME 342 Engineering Economy-Taught in London ME 498A Engineering and Technology in Global Economy -London ME 499 Undergraduate Research 
African-American Studies Program AFAM 209 Introduction to Anthropology AFAM 215 Education, Multiculturalism and Democracy AFAM 232 Social Problems AFAM 240 Introduction to American Politics AFAM 241 Introduction to International Relations AFAM 242 Introduction to Comparative Government AFAM 306 Race and Ethnic Relation in the United States AFAM 319 Sociology of Sport AFAM 329 Introduction to Human Evolution 
American Studies 
AMST 448 News Internship 
AMST 449 Writing Nonfiction 
AMST 498 Spec'1al Studies 
AMST 598 Special Studies 
AMST 599 Thesis Direction 
AMST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
Anthropology 
ANTH 209 Introduction to Anthropology 
ANTH 329 Introduction to Human Evolution 
ANTH 488 Archaeological Field School 

Architecture ARCH 100 Career Discovery in Architecture at Notre Dame ARCH 542 Architecture and Urbanism in Nauplion, Greece 
Art, Art History and Design 
ARHI 575 Directed Readings in Art History 
ARHI 599 Thesis Direction 
ARHI 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
ARST 285S Photography I 
ARST 485S Studio Photography 
ARST 599S Thesis Direction 
ARST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
ARST 676 Directed Readings 
ARST 696 Thesis Project DESN 280/480/580 Multimedia Design DESN 282/482/582S Digital Image Making 
DESN 330S Furniture Design I DESN 496S Special Studies 
Arts and Letters, Nondepartmental AL 298 Visiting Scholar Studies 
Biological Sciences 

BIOS 110 Molecular, Genetics, Technology and Society 
BIOS 494 Directed Readings BIOS 499 Undergraduate Research 
BIOS 523 Practicum in Environmental Biology BIOS 569 Practical Aquatic Biology BIOS 599 Thesis Direction BIOS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research BIOS 672 Special Problems BIOS 699 Research and Dissertation BIOS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Business Administration 
ACCT 231 Accounting and Accountancy I ACCT 232 Accounting and Accountancy II 

ACCT 334 Accounting for Decision-Making and Co8trol 
ACCT 371 Accounting Measurement and Disclosure BA 230 Statistics in Business BA 363 Business Law: Contracts BA 392 Business Communication BA 490 Corporate Strategy FIN 231 Business Finance FIN 360 Managerial Economics FIN 361 Business Conditions Analysis FIN 370 Investments Theory MARK 231 Principles of Marketing MARK 473 Marketing Communication MGT 231 Principles of Management MGT 240 Computers in Business 
Center for Educational Opportunity 
UB 102 Understanding Societies UB 109 Composition and Literature 
Chemical Engineering 

CHEG 499 Undergraduate Research 
CHEG 599 Thesis Direction 

CHEG 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
CHEG 699 Research and Dissertation 
CHEG 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Chemistry and Biochemistry 

CHEM 115 General Chemistry I 
CHEM 116 General Chemistry II 
CHEM 117 General Chemistry 1 
CHEM 118 General Chemistry II 
CHEM 119L General Chemistry I -Lab 
CHEM 120L General Chemistry II -Lab 
CHEM 223 Elementary Organic Chemistry I 
CHEM 223L Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory I 
CHEM 224 Elementary Organic Chemistry II 
CHEM 224L Elementary Organic Chemistry Laboratory II 
CHEM 477 Directed Readings 
CHEM 499R Undergraduate Research 
CHEM 599R Thesis Direction 

CHEM 694 Directed Readings 
CHEM 699R Research and Dissertation 
CHEM 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research 
Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences 
CE 1OOA Civil Engineering Concepts 
CE 1OOB Civil Engineering Concepts 
CE 498 Directed Studies 

CE 499 Undergrad~ate Research 
CE 598 Advanced Studies 
CE 599R Thesis Direction 

CE 600R Nonresident Thesis Research 
CE 698 Advanced Topics 

CE 699R Research and Dissertation 
CE 700R Nonresident Dissertation Research 
GEOS 499 Undergraduate Research 
Classics 
CLGR 200 Intensive Greek 
CLGR 511 Intensive Greek 
CLLA 200 Intensive Latin 
CLLA 511 Intensive Latin 

CLSS 402 Introduction to Syriac Grammar 
CLSS 452 Introduction to Syriac Literature 
CLSS 500 Introduction to Syriac Grammar 
CLSS 500A Introduction to Syriac Literature 
CLST 535 Historical Survey of Syriac Christianity in English 
Communication and Theatre 

COTH 204 Basics of Film and Television 
COTH 205 Introduction to Theatre 
COTH 221 Acting: Process 

COTH 361/561 Introduction to Film and Video Production 
COTH 374/574 Contemporary Hollywood 
COTH 407 Entertainment and Arts Law 
COTH 493A Broadcast Internship 
COTH 598 Special Studies 
COTH 599 Thesis Direction 

COTH 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
Computer Applications 

CAPP 243 Introduction to Computers 
CAPP 316 Systems Analysis and Design 
CAPP 385 Artificiallntelligence 
CAPP 395 Applied Multimedia Technology 
CAPP 497 Special Projects 

CAPP 498 Departmental Tutorial 
CAPP 499 Special Topics 

Computer Science and Engineering CSE 232 Advanced Programming 
CSE 331 Data Structures 
CSE 498 Directed Studies 

CSE 499 Undergraduate Research 
CSE 598 Advanced Studies CSE 599 Thesis Direction CSE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research 
CSE 698 Advanced Topics CSE 699 Research and Dissertation CSE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research 
East Asian Languages and Literatures EALJ 105 Conversational Japanese EALJ 115 Intensive First-Year Japanese EALL 368 Self and Society in Modern Japanese Fiction 
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 
Economics liPS. 599 Thesis Diredion ROFR 399 Special Studies ECON 123 Principles of Economics I liPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ROFR 500 French Graduate Reading ECON 224 Principles of Economics II liPS 693 Directed Readings ROFR 597 Directed Readings ECON 498 Special Studies liPS 695 Field Experiences ROFR 599 Thesis Diredion ECON 599 Thesis Diredion ROFR 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ECON 600 Nonresident Thesis Research Mathematics ROFR 697 Special Studies ECON 697 Special Topics MATH 104 Finite Mathematics ROIT 101 Beginning Italian I ECON 698 Directed Readings MATH 105 Elements of Calculus I ROIT 102 Beginning Italian II ECON 699 Research and Dissertation MATH 108 Elements of Calculus II for Business ROIT 103 Intermediate Italian ECON 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research . MATH 120 Calculus B ROIT 399 Special Studies 
MATH 126 Calculus II ROIT 599 Thesis Direction Electrical Engineering MATH 323 Introduction to Probability ROSP 101 Beginning Spanish I EE 222 Introduction to Electrical Science MATH 499 Undergraduate Reading ROSP 102 Beginning Spanish II EE 224 Electrical Circuits I MATH 511 Computer Programming and Problem Solving ROSP 103 Intermediate Spanish EE 498 Directed Studies MATH 698 Advanced Graduate Reading ROSP 399 Special Studies EE 499 Undergraduate Research MATH 699 Research and Dissertation ROSP 497 Special Studies EE 598R Advanced Studies MATH 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research ROSP 500 Spanish Graduate Reading EE 599 Thesis Diredion ROSP 597 Directed Readings EE 600 Nonresident Thesis Research Medieval Institute ROSP 599 Thesis Diredion EE 698 Advanced Topics Ml 470/570 Introduction to Medieval Latin ROSP 600 Nonresident Thesis Research EE 699 Research and Dissertation Ml 497 Directed Readings ROSP 697 Special Studies EE 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research Ml 517 Paleography 
Ml 597 Directed Readings Science, Nondepartmental Engineering, Nondepartmental Ml 599 Thesis Diredion sc 498 Research Experience for Undergraduates EG 100A Introduction to Engineering Ml 600 Nonresident Thesis Research sc 598 Advanced Studies EG 100B Introduction to Engineering Ml 673 Medieval Liturgies EG 498 Research Experience for Ml 699 Research and Dissertation Sociology 
Undergraduates Ml 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research soc 102 lntrodudion to Sociology 
soc 220 Social Psychology English Music soc 232 Social Problems ENGL 340B Shakespeare on Film MUS 220A Learning to Listen soc 300 Foundations of Sociological Theory ENGL 391A Race and Ethnicity in American Literature MUS 310/510 Piano soc 302 Research Methods ENGL 409B Writing Nonfidion MUS 311/511 Organ soc 303 Statistics for Professionals ENGL 418 Types of Drama MUS 313 Guitar soc 306 Race and Ethnic Relation in the United States ENGL 433 King Arthur and Arthurianism: Past and Present MUS 314/514 Voice soc 319 Sociology of Sport ENGL 468G Victorian Novel of Sensation MUS 316/516 Cello soc 417 Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice ENGL 487 The American Novel MUS 319 Percussion Lessons soc 475 Conflict Resolution Training ENGL 491C Representation of War in Literature and Film MUS 415A/515A Violin soc 498 Directed Readings ENGL 495E Novels Into Film MUS 498 Undergraduate Special Studies soc 599 Thesis Diredion ENGL 498 Directed Readings MUS 598 Special Studies soc 600 Nonresident Thesis Research ENGL 500 English for Non-Native Speakers MUS 599 Thesis Direction soc 655 Directed Readings ENGL 508 Studies in Critical Theory MUS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research soc 699 Research and Dissertation ENGL 523 Religion and Literature soc 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research ENGL 598 Special Studies Philosophy 
1ENGL 599 Thesis Diredion PHIL 201 Introduction to Philosophy (Section 01) Theology ENGL 600 Nonresident Thesis Research PHIL 201 lntrodudion to Philosophy (Section 02) THEO 200 Foundations of Theology: Biblical/Historical (0 1) ENGL 699 Research and Dissertation PHIL 215 Education, Multiculturalism and Democracy THEO 200 Foundations of Theology: Biblical/Historical (02) ENGL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research PHIL 245 Medical Ethics THEO 229 Vatican II: History and Consequences 
PHIL 246 Ethics and Business THEO 241 The Concept of Resurrection in Bible and Church German and Russian Languages and Literatures PHIL 261 Philosophy of Religion THEO 278 Christian Ethics in 20th-Century America GE 101 Beginning German I PHIL 498 Directed Readings THEO 498 Directed Readings GE 102 Beginning German II PHIL 603 Directed Readings THEO 499 Undergraduate Research GE 107 Continuing German PHIL 699 Research and Dissertation THEO 500 Introduction to Graduate Studies GE 240 Conversational German PHIL 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 500A Themes and Texts in the Catholic Tradition GE 500 German Graduate Reading THEO 501 Historical Survey of Syriac Christianity 
Physics THEO 502 Judaism Government and International Studies PHYS 221 Physics I THEO 504 Prophets GOVT 240 Introduction to American Politics PHYS 222 Physics II THEO 511 Synoptics and Acts GOVT 241 Introduction to International Relations PHYS 499 Undergraduate Research THEO 513 Pauline Theology: How the Pauline Letters GOVT 242 Introduction to Comparative Government PHYS 598 Special Topics Differ from Each Other GOVT 397R Directed Readings PHYS 699 Research and Dissertation THEO 523 Modern History GOVT 556 Conflict Resolution Training PHYS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 527D Intensive Course: Augustine GOVT 599 Thesis Direction THEO 530 Fundamentals of Systematic Theology GOVT 600 Nonresident Thesis Research Program in the History of Philosophy and Science THEO 532 Christology GOVT 692 Directed Readings HPS 599 Thesis Direction THEO 533 Ecclesiology GOVT 696 Examination Preparation HPS 600 Nonresident Thesis Research THEO 534 The Doctrine of God GOVT 699 Research and Dissertation HPS 604 Directed Readings THEO 536 Grace GOVT 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research HPS 699 Research and Dissertation THEO 537 Sacramental Theology 
HPS 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 539 History of Spirituality History THEO 549 Sociology of Religion HIST 304 War and Society 250-1450 Program of Liberal Studies THEO 551 Catholic Social Ethics HIST 336 American Indian History: From the PLS 401/501 John Henry Newman's An Essay in Aid THEO 552 Interpersonal Ethics 
Prehistoric Past to the Present of a Grammar ofAssent THEO 553 Feminist Theology HIST 338 The History of Sport in America PLS 477 Directed Readings THEO 560 Liturgical History HIST 357 European Expansion and Africa PLS 478 Special Topics THEO 561 Christian Initiation HIST 485 Making Their Own America: THEO 562 Eucharist 
Immigrants in the United States Psychology THEO 563 Liturgical Prayer-HIST 490 Directed Readings PSY 211 Introductory Psychology THEO 564 Liturgical Year HIST 590 Directed Readings PSY 341 Experimental Psychology 1: Statistics. THEO 566( Funeral Liturgies HIST 599 Thesis Diredion PSY 350 Developmental Psychology THEO 572 Ritual Studies HIST 600 Nonresident Thesis Research PSY 354 Abnormal Psychology THEO 573L Comprehensive Review: Liturgical Studies HIST 697 Directed Readings PSY 397 Special Studies THEO 573T Comprehensive Review: Theological Studies HIST 699 Research and Dissertation PSY 453 Behavioral Pediatrics THEO 574F Liturgy and Ministry HIST 700 Nonresident Dissertation PSY 488a The Environment: Science, Culture, Values THEO 590( Music for the Rites 
PSY 497 Special Studies THEO 591A Liturgical Law Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies PSY 691B Advanced Issues in Statistics and THEO 598 Directed Readings liPS 396/496 Directed Readings Research Design THEO 599 Thesis Diredion liPS 427/527 Conflict Resolution: Theory and Practice PSY 693 Research Special Topics THEO 600 Nonresident Thesis Research liPS 445P/545P Education, Multiculturalism and Democracy PSY 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research THEO 698 Directed Readings liPS 475/575 Conflict Resolution Training THEO 699 Research and Dissertation liPS 501 Colloquium on Cross-Cultural Understanding Romance Languages and Literatures THEO 700 Nonresident Dissertation Research liPS 530 Peace Studies Laboratory ROFR 102 Beginning French II 
ROFR 103 Intermediate French 
page 8 The Observer • NEWS 






Late tycoon pays parentaJ",debt 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO 
In life. Larry Hillblom ­the Kll" in DHL Worldwide Expn~ss -was known for his money-making zest. But his death revealed a private pas­sion: an alleged penchant for bedding young virgins. 
In the two years since Hillblorn's body was lost at sea, several women from the Far East whet say they bore his children have come for­ward to demand a share of his millions. 
Now. the lurid court battle appears to be nearing an end. 
Last month, a court on the tropical island of Saipan npprovf:'d a tentative settle­ment granting 13-year-o1d Larry "Junior" Hillblom and three other children up to $90 million each, pending more DNA testing. 
A much-squabbled-over scrap of skin from Hillb1om eould prove decisive. 
Hillblom was majority shan~holder in closely held DilL, tho delivery company he co-founded in 1969 with Adrian Daisey and Robert Lynn. It now employs more than 40,000 people in more than 220 countries. lie usual­ly wore old jeans, a T-shirt and sneakers. and traveled often to the Far East, fishing. golfing, nying and carousing. 
In 1995, Hillblom 's World War 11-vintage-seaplane crashed near Saipan. his home for 10 years. His body was never recovered, but he was legally declared dead. 
That was when friends and associates found out that the 
52-year-old, never-married 
Hillblom -who had narrowly 
escaped death when he 
erashed a small plane in 1993 
-had left sparse instructions 
on how to divvy up his far­
flung fortune estimated at 
$500 million to $700 million 
"He thought he was going to 
live forever," says David 
Lujan. a Guam attorney· for 
Junior Hillblom. 
Hillblom 's will. written in 
1982, said only that $300,000 
should go to each of his two 
brothers and the rest to a 
eharitable medical trust. The 
'HETHOUGHT HE WAS 
GOING TO UVE FOR· EVER,' 
DAV!D LWAIN, GUAM A1TORNEY FOR JUNIOR 
HILLBLOM 
trust was directed to "show 
particular attention" to sup­
porting research at the 
University of California. 
Hillblom had graduated 
from UC Berkeley's Boalt Hall 
law school and also had long 
been an admirer of the doc­
tors at UC San Francisco, 
some of whom treated him 
after the 1993 crash. 
The most important part of 
Hillblom 's will was what he 
didn't say: There Vl(as no stan­
dard clause disinheriting ille­
gitimate heirs. 
That opened the door to 
paternity suits from women 
who said they bore Hillhlom's children during what they described as his pursuit of teen-age virgins in the bars and nightclubs of the Far East. 

"I think it was his form of safe sex," says attorney David Axelrod. who represented one ofthe children. 
The obvious answer to paternity claims is DNA test­ing. But there was no body to obtain samples from and Hillblom's relatives were reluctant to provide blood samples. At one point, his mother turned down an offer of more than $1 million. 
In the meantime, lawyers for the children commissioned DNA sibling tests to see whether Hillblom 's alleged offspring had a common par­ent. The answer wa_s yes for four children: two Filipino girls, a Vietnamese boy and a Palauan boy. 
Last month, a probate court in Saipan approved a settle­ment under which the chil­dren will split 60 percent of Hillblom's fortune and the trust will get 40 percent. 
UC. which could get up to $240 million, said in a cau­tiously worded statement that it expects the charitable trust to place appropriate weight on Hillblom 's relationship with the university and his commitment to make a major gift. 
If another round of DNA tests confirms the.sibling rela-­tionship, lawyers for the trust ean try to prove Hillblom was not the father. either with a blood sample from a relative or with the scar tissue. 



Play 
continued from page I 
According to director of Student Activities, Georgeanna Rosenbush. a main focus of the conference is to break down the barrier between school and the experience the real world brings. 
"We want the students to real­ize that they are leaders now, and that they have the same rights as professors to initiate and influence change in com­munity," Rosenbush added. 
The Play of the Mind confer­ence sparks not only students interest in leadership and growth as women, but it also stimulates ereativity which not only benefits themselves but indirectly benefits the college as welL 
"It is always surprising to see the ideas that comP out of the weekend," White said. "It's a 
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
whirl of thinking energy which can become tiring after wrestling with nnw ideas. However, it is both playful seri­ous and serious play which unite the participants." 
In its first year of existencP., the Play of the Mind consisted of dose to 100 people. Eight years later, this weekend's r.onference will be made up of over 270 Saint Mary's students. 
"It is going to be intemsting to sl}are ideas with other women to see the dill"ernnces and simi­larities that make our colleges so uniqun," said partidpant Melissa Wheeler. 
"As a currnnt participant in the Play of the Mind, I have had the opportunity to watch stu­dents grow and take steps to expand their diversity." said his­tory professor Kelly Hamilton. "I look forward to another rewarding experience which will enable me to meet new peo­ple with ~nique backg~~nmds and experumces to sham. 

Beaten woman escapes from abusive boyfriend 
Associated Press 
PIIILADELPIIIA 
A woman says she was held prisoner in her own home for three months by a boyfriend who beat her. raped her and threatened to hurt her chil­dren if she did anything about it. 
The 24-year-old woman did something about it Monday, running from the home to a police van she spotted parknd nearby. 
The boyfriend also took off. and police believe he may have taken a hostage with him. 
Officers said the woman told investigators she was some­times handcuffed to a banister or had her hands tied togotlwr. She told polke she was bt~aten often and rapod live times. 
The 30-year-old suspect kept the woman from running by threatening to kill her and her children. who were not living in the apartment. Police Lt. Kenneth Coluzzi said. 
On Tuesday, a firn was set in th11 apartment. Polin~ lwlitwe it was the work or the suspect, who may also have kidnapped a woman who lived in the apartment with the vktim. 

Every Major Every Degree Every Graduation Date 1998 Summer/Internship Job Fair Sponsored by Career & Placement Services Thursday January 22, 1998 I:JOpm -4:30pm Sports Heritage Hall Joyce Center Concourse 2nd Floor Bring your resume! Meet with representatives from the following companies 360 Communications CNA Insurance Companies Mobil Oil Corporation AIG Life Companies Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. Northwestern Mutual Life -The McTique Allegiance Healthcare Corporation Corporate Staffing Resources Agency Allstate Dana Corporation Spicer Axle Division Norwest Financial American Express Financial Advisors Deloitte & Touche L.L.P. Novus Services Amoco Corporatifln EDS PNC Bank Amway Corporation Enterprise Rent-A-Car Price Waterhouse Andersen Consulting Ernst & Young L.L.P. Sears, Roebuck and Company Anthony Travel, Incorporated First Source Bank Software Architects, Incorporated Arthur Andersen Footlocker State Farm Insurance Companies Associates Information System General Mills-Sales Division SYSCO Food Services Bane Once Consumer Financial Services Hewitt Associates L.L.C. Target Stores Baxter Healthcare Corporation IKON Office Solutions Technology Services Group BOO Seidman, L.L.P. International Foundation of Employment Tellabs Operations, Incorporated The Bradford Group Benefit Plans TRW Space & Electronics Group Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railway J.C. Whitney United States Navy Camp Sweeney John Hancock Financial Services University Directories Cargill Kemper Insurance Companies Walgreens Company Compaq Computer Corporation KPMG Peat Marwick L.L.P. CIGNA Corporation Meridian Capital Advisors  

Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 

'Yuppie thief' found 


Glenn to fly again with NASA 
Ao;sociated Press 
duty as a. space shuttle crew to speed on· are just things thai member. every crew person has to do, 

guilty, not insane 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
NASA announced last Friday lik~ eme.r:gencytraininK a:1l<l

NASA's newest and oldest that thesenat6r -the first suituse and all those things." · 
Associated Press 
used underwear -had little
astronaut -John Glenn -American to orbit Earth back in ·He said he has no f'rrm sched~ arrived amid fanfare Tuesday 1962 -would be launched ip 
value and demonstrated his
uleyet for training. . •. ·• 
BRENTWOOD, N.H. 

uncontrollable compulsion toto watch a shuttle launch and October aboard Discovery as As soon as his plane lari.ded, 
A jury Tuesday convicted a steaLstart brushing up on his space­part of a study on aging. He'll Gle.nn was greeted by Roy former assistant attorney gen­"He is getting help," Jeffcoflying skiUs. be 77 by then, 16 years older Bridges, director of Kennedy eral of possessing hundreds of 
said. "Let him become"Haven't been here for a than anyone ever to fly ln Space Center and a former books, furniture, computers 
healthy."and art stolen from colleges
while," he said. grinning. "I space. shuttle pilot. ·· 
Prosecutors argued that
want to start getting up to "Physically, I feel great," Several other NASA employ~ 
and museums around New 
McCallum was nothing but aspeed on everything." Glenn told reporters. "I thirik ees waited eagerly to shake England. 
yuppie thief who got caught.
It was Glenn's first official the things that I have to get up Glenn's hand. · William McCallum admitted Assistant Hillsborough County 
to stealing the items, including 
Attorney Simon Brown said 
a George Inness landscape McCallum planned his thefts 
w o r t h 
and proudly

$70,000, but 
showed off the 

pleaded inno­
valuables from

'HE IS GETTING HELP.
cent by reason 
prep schools. 

of insanity to LET HIM BECOME museums and 
65 misde-HEALTHY.' the state 
meanor and 
Supreme Court 

felony charges 
library, dis­

of possession 
playing them in

STEPHEN JEFFCO, 
of stolen prop­
his home and

LAWYER FOR WILLIAM
erty. 
office. 

The jury McCALLUM 
McCallum 

rejected the 
attended Yale 

insanity defense and found 
University and got his law 
him guilty on all counts. 
degree at Boston College. He 
McCallum, 34, faces up to life 
landed a clerkship with then­
in prison when he is sentenced 
state Supreme Court Justice 
March 20. Ilis lawyers said 
David Souter. 
they won't appeaL 
Soon afterward, Souter was 
Defense experts testified that 
appointed to the U.S. Supreme
McCallum suffers from klepto­
Court. McCallum worked for 
mania _ a neurotic compul­
his successor, .Justice Sherman 
sion to steal -bipolar disor­
Horton, then went on to a 
der and severe depression. 
career in the attorney gener­
McCallum's lawyer. Stephen 
al's office, defending state 
Jeffco, said many of the things 
ageneies in civil cases. 
he stole -doorknobs and 
''~ease' recycle The Observer 
that pay you7 How will you ever cope? With KeyBank:S KeyMoney Access Account, 
you'll earn $.25 for each KeyBank MAC ATM deposit 
you make -up to $1.00 
per month 

Plus. KeyBank has ATM:S conveniently placed on campus: 
• 
LaFortune Student Center 

• 
JACC, Gate lO 


Want more infonnation? Call l-800-KEY2YOU'' for your KeyMoney Access Account. 
Sale dates~ January 18..J1. 

Wilshire Plaza Mishawaka {219)271-0696"' 

Key. For a new America~ 
81-8040-018 




VIEWPOINT 
page 10 Wednesday, January 21, 1998 

• lETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Welfare Lost in Corporate Gluttony 
Not long ago, while rereading the hook of Samuel, I was struck by a parabh~ told by the proplwt Nathan. Two nwn lived in a dty, one rich and anotiHw poor. The rieh man had many !locks and lwrds, while th11 poor man had nothing save one little ewe which hn had nourished like a child. One day a traveler arrivPd at the rich man's house and in order to feed his guest, the rich man butchered the poor man's lamb instead of taking one from his own !lock. 
Ovnr 2,500 years later the rich man's injustice still prevails. In his book "Natural Hight and History," political philosoplwr !.eo Strauss dtns the para­bin as if to say that th!~ story is.no lnss n~lnvanttoday than it was to King David who lward it first hand. Nathan's words address each genera­tion arww. 
I.nt's suppose, by way of anah-1gy, that the big corporations are today's travder-thn rich man's guest. t\rdwr-1 lanids-Midland. Cargill Inc.. and Bo1~ing. for example, have been identifiPd by The Nation as amongst the top "corporate welfare recipients" having managnd to securn a total of $3.7 billion through fednral subsidies and governmnnt backnd loans. The Institute f(>r Policy Studies statns that 10 othnr companil~s. induding Ford, Chryslnr, GM and Philip Morris, have appropriatnd an additional $6.5 billion by dodging taxes. I am suggesting that this sum of over $1 0 billion represents the lamb. 
The lamb. which was handed over to tlw eorporations, was taknn from the poor. This was accomplished by the govnrnment's dncision to deduct an averagn of $9 billion per year for the rwxt six years from welfarn programs. 
According to the Bible, when King David rnalized that the rich man was hut a mirror of himself. he fully com­prehnndnd thn dirn consi1quences his actions had had on the poor man's life. Yet does our govnrnment understand the ramifkations of the welfarn cuts? 

The effects of the regulation, which limil'i individuals to three months of food stamps in any three-year period, are already visible. The Center on Hunger, Poverty and Nutrition Policy at Tufts University recently concluded that 12 percent of U.S. households are "food insecure," which can mean "any­thing from missing the last few meals to not qui.~e knowing where to find the next one. 
Just as worrisome are the repercus­sions of the program railed Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) which attempts to impel those on wel­fare to join the workforce. Wayne (;oodling, assistant dirnctor of the Division of Family and Children in South Bend's welfare office, tells me that over 90 percent ofTANF recipi­enlo.; are single mothers and their chil­dren. 
Indiana figures indicate that a single mother with two children who is on TANF receives a maximum of $288, Mediraid and $321 in food stamps each month for a period of two years. If the mother does not lind a job within this period her benefits arc cut. Joy !kayak, a program director at the YWCA, poinl<> out that the whole fami­ly, not only the mother, su!l'ers from the reductions. 
TANF, so the logic goes, is supposed to enable the mother to find a job. Thus, TANF regulations require her to spend 25 hours a week sending out applications and going to interviews. Lack of compliance or failure to secure employment leads to "sanctions": $90 are dnduct11d from the allowance, and the mother stops receiving Medicaid. 
I have heard people argue that TANF reveals contradictory messages dis­seminated in our society. On the one hand. TANF urges women to find jobs, while on the other -in the spirit of "family values"-women are expected to stay home. In reality. however. no contradiction exisl'i: poor women are required to work while middle class women are urged to return to tradi­tiona! roles. 
Paul Barrett, employment supervisor at the Division of Family and Children. reports that in Indiana a single mother looking for a job receives a maximum of four weeks of free child day care. Barrett's experience suggests that when the market is good, a woman might be able to find a "Burger King" job within four weeks; but if her aspi­rations are higher, this period is usual­ly inadequate. . 
We notice, then, that sharp contra­dictions do exist in our society. Expecting a woman to search 25 hours a week for a job without supplying day care for her children beyond the initial month, is but one example. Another eontradietion eomes to light when one realizes that should a single mother lind a job, the salary she receives is usually insufficient to sustain even a very small family. 
These eontradictions reflect only one part of the problem. "Many of the peo­ple on welfare have a profound fear of' doing things that to you and me seem simple," Barrett points out. Contemplating job interviews or com­pleting GEDs is ollen accompanind by deep anxiety which has a paralyzing effect. Though T ANF strives to assist single mothers, it cannot give them the basics such as a propnr education. 
The ramifications of cutting the social safety net reveal that, in its effort to reform welfare, the government has chosen to chastise the poor. This approaeh is not unlike the one behind 19th century Poor Laws, namely sanc­tions instead of justice. Lurking behind the decision to abandon those living on the margins of society, is our age's political will-heavily conditioned by powerful lobbyists and their vested interests. This will has chosen to sacri­fice the poor man's lamb to the glutto­nous corporations. 
Neve Gordon Graduate srudenr January 20, 1998 

• LEITER TO THE EDITOR 
Speak Against Injustice 
"No Justice, No Peace!" Monday, land the rest of the Notre Dame student body. faculty and staff. were NOT celebrating Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Day. With the rare exception, we were attending class and proceeding with our regular business while radsm, classism, heterosexism, and sexism go almost unchal­lenged in our courses, on eampus, and in society at large. While King spoke out primarily on the first two forms of oppression, wern he alive today, I believe he would see the connection between all forms of oppression. 
Seven years ago, King's spirit inspirnd a group of students called Students United For Respect (SUFH) to demand that the administration aecept and promote multiculturalism. For that entire semester, studcnL<; made noise, eulminat­ing in April when 60 of them peacefully sat-in the Registrar's oflice for 11 hours. SUFH was not entirely successful as many of their demands were caught up fintentionoJiy'!) in bureaucracy, but at least they went beyond dr(Jaming and woke pooplo up. We should fol­low their courageous example. 
When King saw injustice he was never afraid to be voeal and break rules. If he werfl at ND h1~ would be organizing numerous protests WITH­OUT asking permission. He would advoeate for the rights of people of eolor, students, gays, les­bians, bisexuals, women, and the poor. He'd probably get expelled. Do you believe in diversi­ty, justice, and democracy? Do you believe that Notre Dame and the world needs a coneornnct and highly active student body to confront injus­tice wherever it exists? Do you feel mad that Notre Dame fails to recognize Martin Luth1~r King and have a study day? Some of us do. 
We are starting a progressive aetivist group that will make noise, do research, educate, and confront all forms of oppression. We want to include everyone. So whether you are con­cerned with racism, peace, gay rights, diversity, eorporate power, the environment, oconomic justice, or feminism, we need your help and ideas. Contact me at 4-4346 to get involved! 
Aaron Kreider 
Graduate Student 
January 19, 1998 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 
"No civilized person goes to bed the same day he gets up." 
-Richard Harding Davis 



VIEWPOINT
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 page 11 
• PERSPECTIVES OF NO • AWAKENINGS 
Diversity key to millenium 
The spiritual goes: "Order my steps Several such costs are mentioned in in your word, dear Lord. Lead me, Robert Golembiewski's book, guide me. every day. "Managing Diversity in Organizations" 
"Snnd your annointing. Father, I (1995). For example, a successful pray order my steps in your word." diversity initiative can reduce the high
00. 
The passing of costs of employee another semester turnover and 
marks anothnr step absenteeism, as 
Yankee Rethinks Ainerica's IndividualisiD 
LONDON 

The most striking difference between Great Britain and the U.S., besides that of age, is that of size and magnitude. For the most part, everything here is smaller and less in-your-face than back home. You may think this to be a minor, virtually unno­
ticeable difference. Believe me though-after less than two weeks in London, the difference has smacked me and most of my friends across the face. 
For starters, there are the elevators (they refer to them as "lifts" here), 
J D 
. r. stairwells, hallways, and doorways. Whereas you can squeeze upwards of 20 people into a Flanner elevator 
Cooney 
(believe me, I did it), maybe three can shimmy their way into a British lift. Moreover, it's virtually impossible to walk up and down most stairwells, through most hallways, or into any 
doorways without turning sideways and brushing the oncoming person. 
Even the tube, London's version of the subway, requires any six-footer to duck on their way in and perhaps crouch down depending where they stand. In addition, since arriving I've yet to see a single station wagon, mini-van, or sports utility vehi­cle-every car is compact and most people's heads seem pressed up against the roof. 
Then there's the toilets, showers, and sinks. The toilets are barely big enough to sit on, the showers and tubs seem designed for someone four feet tall and skinnier than a super model, and the sinks require you to wash one hand at a time. Moreover, whether you're in your flat, across town in a pub off Piccadilly Circus, or in a public restroom at St. James Park, the water pressure never exceeds that of the milk dispenser in NOH when it's down to its last two glasses. 
By now you must think me a whiner or Great Britain a depraved country-both couldn't be further from the truth. A little extra elbow room, better water pressure, and a bit more personal space are all things you don't think about and even the most spoiled of Americans can learn to live without. But I think this issue of space speaks volumes about the way we Americans are socialized and how it influences 

our perspectives, as opposed to those of the British. 
America is the "J" society -the closest Americans come to collectivism is cheer­
ing for the Stars and Stripes at the Olympics. We define everything from property to 
politics in terms of the individual. Americans, for the most part, don't like to be bur­
dened with things outside our personal sphere; whether it be welfare reform or 
simply not having to be bumped when walking down the halls, we prefer to keep to 
ourselves. Great Britain is vastly different in that sense. 
Like America, Great Britain's politics are transforming and perhaps the ripest 
issue is the reevaluation of the welfare state. However, the context of the debate is 
starkly different. The New Labour Government has proposed stricter means testing 
and more collaboration with the private sector. New Labour's proposals are contro­
versial because they call for a reduction in aggregate benefits by cutting oil' those 
who really do not need government subsidization and focusing on those who do. 
Great Britain's welfare state is more expansive than that of the U.S.; there is little 
means testing and nearly everyone collects benefits of some sort. It is not surprising 
that people in Great Britain, or anywhere else, would find a proposal which might 
reduce even unnecessary benefits unappealing. What is shocking is that seems, 
from my reading of British newspapers and discussions with a Member of 
Parliament, that British citizens fear reform to be a slippery slope which will ulti­
mately penalize the disadvantaged. . Great Britain is no socialist state, and the British no more or less ethical, per se. 
than Americans ~but it is striking how differently they view these issues. To be 
honest, I think it may be simply because they're more used to sharing-including 
everything from space to welfare. Perhaps if we Americans didn't keep so much to 
ourselves and weren't obsessed with size and grander, if we just learned to share a 
little more, the context of our welfare debate and similar socio-political issues 
might be a tad different. 
J.P. Cooney is an economics and government major attending the London Program. He can still be reached at Cooney.6@nd.edu. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
towards gradua­tion: towards com­plnting a disserta­ Mel  
tion: towards that rmtnion: towards a wnll-dup promo­ Tardy  
tion; towards that  
tnaching or  
research award: or  
rnaybn evnn rntire­ 
ment.  

On the other hand, another new year has begun. Many of us have pledged New Year's rnsolutions: exercise, give up smoking, get bf~tter grades, pray morn often. Somewhere between the semester past and new year begun, have we missP.d a step? 
Another millenium is about to begin. 
W.E.B. DuBois correctly assessed that the grnatest challenge of the 20th cen­tury would be that of the color line. Were he alive today. I think he'd abhor the fact that he could make the same statement about the 21st century! We have reached the brink of cloning human beings but haven't reached the point where we can "all just get along." 
llave we missed a step? Our top scholars and politicians plan trillion­dollar trips to Mars, but have no plans 
t.o visit "the other neighborhood" down thn stn~et'? What sense docs that majw? 
I lave WI' missed a stop? 
I remember recently when Notre Dame took a look at it's physical struc­tures and decided an overhaul was needed to prepare students for the 2 I st century. Money came pouring in, and fastnr than clovers can sprout, computer facilities and hi-tech class­rooms were nvnrywherc. In other words, Notre Dame went to Mars bnfore it went down the street. Sure, ND students, faculty, etc. spend time doing community service projects. Then, however. we come back to our hallowed campus and can't get along in the dorms? llavn we missed a step? 
Wn need to take the discussion of race and ethnic.ity another step. There is a higher level we must aspire to. We must go beyond tolerance. 
Why do we have such a problem with accepting diversity? Perhaps it is because our vic~w of diversity evolved out of the civil rights movement, which had a moral imperative. However, cor­porate Amnrica, in looking at the changing demographies. has suddenly realiznd that embracing di-versity is no longer just a moral imperative it is a
oo. 

strategic one. In other words, corpo­ratf~ America will not survive without it! Future employees, customers and dinnts WILL come from a diverse pool or they just won't exist. There are no otlwr options! 
This shift in focus changes every­thing. Suddenly, in corporate America, where "the bottom line" is key. VALUE is being associated with diversity. As evidence of the growing awareness of this value. Kossek &. Lobel's book, "Managing Diversity: !Iuman Resource Strategies for Transforming the Workplacp," (1996, chapter 14) notes that roughly half of all Fortune 500 companies had divnrsity managers by 1992. 
Moreover, evidence shows that com­panies which fully embrace diversity are relatively more productive. According to Kossek & Lobel's book, "A 1993 comparison of S&P's 500 lirrns showed that the 100 firms
oo• 

with the best equal employment histo­ries had five-year annualized returns of 18.3 percent while those with the worst employment histories for women and !peopln of color) had returns of only 7.9 percent." 
Another way to look at value is to define the opportunity cost of NOT embracing diversity. 
well as the cost of 
recruiting scarce 
labor. It can also 
reduce intergroup 
conflict and com­
munication barri­
ers. and increase 
the likelihood that 
employees will 
confront differ­ences. This means employees can work efficiently and share ideas instead of wasting valuable effort and energy on the aforementioned problems. 
Other benefits include a tangible increase in sales to people of color, and the intangible goodwill a positive image creates with customers who are people of color. For example, where would Nike be today had it not taken a chance on Michael Jordan? Also, com­panies like McDonald's, Coca Cola and Xerox all score well with people of color. Cosmetic companies which perennially marginalized African American women could kick them­selves after Ebony -within one year .after it began selling make-up-out­sold the entire industry. Add to these benefits the reduced likelihood of liti­gation costs associated with discrimi­nation. Denny's, Avis and Texaco learned all these lessons after the fact. 
Notre Dame must take similar steps to emphasize the strategic value we place upon diversity. If we believe diversity to be merely a moral impera­tive (which, in itself, should mean something at a Catholic university) but ignore the strategic implications of changing demographics, our University will never aspire to anything greater than rnediocritic toleration. One way to demonstrate the strategic value we place upon diversity is by having a coordinated plan in place (i.e. not just piecemeal). Included in that plan should be benchmarks and incentives, outlining Notre Dame's vision of its contribution to this strategic impera­tive of the 21st century. 
Conversely, the lack of such a strate­gic plan, by ANY office or ANY depart­ment at ND, would demonstrate a gros~ undervaluing of the benefits that diversity can bring to this great institu­tion. 
How can ND benefit from such a diversity initiative? How about improved retention of students/faculty of color (and others desiring a more diverse environment), reduced recruit­ment costs, more involvement and donations by alumni of color, as well as from corporations sensitive to the lack of diversity at ND. Moreover, there is evidence that diverse student groups tend to outperform homoge­neous groups when creative problem­solving is needed; hence, diversity can enhance our learning environment. _ Eventually, as alumni, tod~y's students will help reduce the societal costs of not embracing diversity: segregation, litigation, high crime-prevention costs, and the lack of a competent workforce to compete globally. 
We are the ones to lay the strategic groundwork for the future. We are the St. Peter's of Notre Dame. It doesn't matter that we may be novices to diversity. St. Peter wasn't perfect either. but he became the foundation for greatness. That's where we find ourselves today. Somewhere between the semester ending and the approach­ing millenium, will we miss a step? Father, we pray please, order our
000 

steps in Your word; and towards a new tomorrow. Amen. 
Mel Tardy, ND '86 and '90, is a First Year ofStudies advisor. His column appears every other Wednesday. 
The opinions expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


;ACCENT 
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 

By ANNE HOSINSKI 
Accent Writer 
One of the wonders of this techno­logical age is the Internet, and the vast resources it makes available to the general public. The Internet is a very quick and convenient way to research papers, find texts of poems and stories, and research famous people in history. 
But more importantly, aside from the intellectual factor, the Internet is FUN. The following sites are very entertaining, and will suck up quite a lot of your time if you're not care­ful. 
http://members.aol.com/Chi ChiH/ club411 /indeH.html 
You have no doubt heard of the infamous dancing baby. Still, 
library of movie quotes on the Internet. If you are a movie maniac, you can download quotes from such movies as "Austin Powers," "The Blues Brothers," "Blazing Saddles," "The Godfather," and "Airplane" to name a few. This site is worth time, especially if you are looking for an interesting start-up sound for your computer. 
http://www.Free­Stuff.com/ 
Again, the address of this site is self-explanatory. If you have a few hours to kill, and don't mind typing your address into about a million forms, 0 u

daily horoscope page, with links to the "ask the magic eyeball" page. If you want a good laugh, this is the place to go. 
http:/ /www.ESPN.Sports­zone.com/ 
This site is for you sports fans out there. It includes statistics, scores and schedules of the teams you like to keep track of. 
http://www.thelateshowa. com/ 
This site contains an incredible archive of Dave Letterman's Top Ten Lists over the last several years. Updated daily, it is sure to be amus­ing each new time you visit. 

http:/ /www.web
in case you haven't, this is a 
pagesthatsuck. com/

site that you cannot miss. 
The 3-D dancing baby This is a good page to visit
dances to such songs as when you want to know
the "Mac arena," "Barbie what NOT to put on your
Girl," and personal web page.
"Wannabe." If you do Images that take too long
not mind the horrible to load and other just
background music of plain annoying web page
this page, it is quite items are highlighted.
entertaining. It's fun to laugh at other 
people's mistakes rath~r

Along the same lines, than repeating your own.
a site which the famil­iar dancing baby dances to a classic Notre Dame http:/ /bluemountain­SYR theme is found at, 
g re e tin g s.com 
http:/jstudentww. 

uchigaco.edu/ smhenry/ tangjbaby.html. 
http://www.amused.com 
This site, the homepage of the Center of the Easily Amused (the C*E*A*,)has quite a lot of entertain­ing features. It boasts a "short attention span" site of the week, joke of the day, Internet greeting cards and chatrooms. You can participate in an Internet soap opera and read the "skew news." However, the most interesting feature of this site is a daily pool entitled the daily spew, although it's rather self explanatory. 
http:/ /www.mouiesounds. com/ 
The address of this site is self-explanatory, but it boasts the largest 
can get oodles of free-stuff from this site. 
A few months ago, I used this site as an experiment and started send­ing my roommate some very inter­esting, yet very random and absolutely free things. 
http:/ /www.comcentral. com/ 
This, the homepage of the Comedy Central Network, is a center for those hilarious, small entertainers from South Park. Besides South Park, clips, quotes, and characters 
of the other Comedy Central shows are featured. Also contained is a This site is one of many virtual 
greetings the net offers. You can send virtual cards, flowers, and gifts. The person you want to receive the virtual gift is notified via e-mail and most of the virtual greetings are free. 
These sites are only the tip of the iceberg for a day of fun on the Internet. The best thing about the Internet is that if you are looking for something, it is probably there. So, if you have interests in poison dart tree frogs, Beanie Babies, G.I. Joe or swordfish, just go http:/jwww.yahoo.com, the best search engine on the net. But be selective of the sites that you browse because the Internet is truly like a box of chocolates, you never know what you're gonna get. You may just be surprised. 
Other Sites Worth Checking Out: 
0 http://www.coolwebsite.com-the Historical Haiku of the Day Page 0 http:/ /www.screenthemes.com-Great Computer Backgrounds 0 http://www.sony.com-Play Jeopardy online 0 http:/ /www.nd.edu/ -ahosinsk 




ACCENT
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 page 13 


y 
By NORA MEANY Saint Mary's Accent Editor 
Thn controversy has been on everybody's mind late­ly. The struggle of power found when two titans clash has affected us all. Tossing and turning, the world is unable to sleep until the question is answered. Are BurgPr King's new fries actually better than McDonalds"? 
After canvassing both campuses, I found that this question is not easily answered. The judgement of taste. aft(~r all. is purely subjective. Are you a "crispy" fan. or do you favor grease'? And how much salt, if any. is too much? Armed only with a notepad and a dream. I set out to seek the truth. 
l found that some p,mbraced the change at Burger King with open arms, like a prodigal son, throwing down their previous preconceived notions of fried stardws for thP new, improved product. 
"B.K. is way better," said Danny Norman, an off­campus junior. "There's no competition." 

This passion is shared by 
senior Jeremy Scarlett, 
R who summed up Burger King's edge with a singleBURGE 
word. "Crispier." 
.Jay Long, a Zahm junior, 
sees a broader comparison 
between the dueling fries 

and their place in the fast 
food market. To Long, the 
importance of the matter lies not in the improved taste of the product, but the resmnblance between Burger King's new fries and the so-called "spicy fries" from other establishments. 
"Burger King comes closer to spicy fries than 

KING 
By ARWEN DICKEY 
Wednesday Night TV Correspondent 

L
ast week in the land of cheating boyfriends, Brandon <;Qnfronts Emma about the tape of their phoM convet• sation where Brandon admits to .enjoying their time together in bedT "Brandon a:Pd Steve get a brainy idea to make Kelly the advice columnist for the Beverly Beat so Brandon can find out how Kelly feels about a hypothetical unfaithful man. Latet, Kelly hears Steve on the phone telling Emma to not call anymore. . . .. . ... · 
Kelly assumes that Steve ischeating on does not approve and hopes that Brandon's him. Kelly confronts Emma about ~teve (girls, with a slap, only to find out that Eriima Was Emma plays the tape for · · · 
Brandon returns home to ~u1u ··'"'"''tH, <LlJlu Brandon a "monster," $ays she is to not call or come over. 
early yells at ~teve Peach Pit parking lot. While watching a magic show, from Carly and Donna.. . 
A stranger talks to Zack, tries. to off with him; the typical kidnapping out while asking people if ···~·"·· , ... 

ally nice and took Zack to .,.,,, .... ,.,, through a big scene and ap,llldgiz:e could have at least let be .........,.,v:vi1u 
stuff is making me fall asleep~ On a more interesting note, Donna is obviously enjoying ~~~~~~tf:~~;h~··~~
him wait for years; and ·then jl months. David is now writing 

A female singer named Jarrrie mance and getting her fired as Valerie to let Jamie play at the friendship which makes Valerj¢ Jea>.WL~:> now. 
After hearing about Jamie's stage fright. Davi Donna in the crowd t9 help hi~ stag ···· t; J During the shoW at the After Dark; ge 
Jamie, trying to renew his talentcdmusic ~areer:He when she disappears, h~ mustfocl!S Donn;:~. .. 
And where did Valerie go? Mer h kl.cksou been letting work out of the club, Valerie (.feci herself. She even buys David a neW k~yq()arQ. music career. 
So during David's performance, Valerie gives at the club only to be l'},rrest~t.fby <.\.'!llindet;~()Y arrested since he is the owneroftheclub.•••.· · 
TONIGHT: Kelly moves in with.D9ll,ija ap.t.ftel together again. Kelly also gets flowers fron'r a 
~~ .. . 
McDonald's fries," he explained, "and to me, that's important for unique taste." One must question if it is only a matter of time before other restaurants will jump on the "spicy" bandwagon to boost sales. 
However, although th11 improvement is noted by many as being favorable, some still cling to the tradi­tions held dear from childhood. "I don't know if I would say that the Burger King fries are better than McDonalds," pondered Megan McMahon, an off-cam­pus senior from Saint Mary's. "After all, I grew up with McDonalds. But they are a definite improvement over the fries that they used to serve." 
Lizzy Brady, a junior from Howard, pointed out the inadequacies of the poll's favoritism for only 
1\mericcfs f~vorlte fries: 

McDonalds and Burger King, when there are so many other choices given to the 90s consumer market. "I haven't sampled them across the country, but I'll have to go with the tradition of McDonalds," she stated, in reluctant agreement. 
However, some were not as kind. Mike Thelen from Morrissey compared his hatred for the fries with vio­lent acts. He stated, "''d rather be kicked in the head than eat another Burger "King fry. And I mean that." 
"I think that the new B.K. fries taste artificial!" said Paul Kessler of Zahm. "It's almost as if they were cre­ated in a test tube, perhaps surrounded by men in white lab coats." 
In a similar sentiment, a science major from Saint Mary's named Amanda Howerton pondered the com­position of the new fries. 

oes 
"I don't know what they put in their fries to make them taste better," she said. "This is reminiscent of the tobacco companies slipping in fillers to make their prodl,lcts more appealing to the consumer. It's just a matter of time before we are forced to ingest fiberglass in the guise of fried potatoes. Frankly, this new change scares me." 
The conclusion of my infor­mal pole was a dead tie between the the two brands. It seems that McDonalds held it's own with brand loyal­ty, while Burger King gained new ground with the introduction of its new product. 
So, who is better'? Arguably, both claim that they are "America's favorite fries," and both are right. Technically. While Burger King (number two in sales) did win in a national taste test over McDonalds (num­ber one in sales,) it does not conduct the volume of business that McDonalds docs. This is attributed to the fact that the McDonalds chain owns more restau­rants worldwide than the Burger King chain, and thus sells more fries by default. So this becomes a matter of quantity over quality. 
Is there a winner'? The sales in both chains have risen in the past few weeks. It seems that people are rushing out to both chains, taking their own french fry challenge. The foes only succeeded to promote each other. The only losers seem to be the hardening arter­ies of broke Americans, and the lesser known chains that are feeling the pinch. 
In this age of capitalist debate, yo quiero Taco Bell. 
--~ 
page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
• COllEGE BASKETBAll 
ISU upsets No. 5 Texas Tech 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

Shorin-Ryu Karate The fee is $25 for the Students artl instructt)d somester and sign-ups will according to Okinawan tech­begin at 8 a.m. on Monday, niques. this semester-long Jan. 26, in the RecSports course meets in Rockne office. Classes begin on Room 219 on Tuesdays and Saturday, Jan. 31. Thursdays from 6-7:30 p.m., starting Jan. 29. You must Downhill Ski Trip ­registtH in advance at RecSports will be sponsoring RecSports and the fee is a Downhill Ski trip to Swiss $HL A demonstration will Valley on Friday, Jan. 30. be tlflld at 6:30 p.m., on Tht~ buses will leave the Tuesday. Jan. 27, in Rockne Library Circle at 5 p.m. and Hm. 219. Call 1-8237 for return to campus at approx­more information. imately 11 p.m. The fee for 
those needing to rent skis is 
Ballet -HecSports will be $28. and for· those who will sponsoring Beginner and bring their own skis, the Advanced Ballet. The cost is $19. All participants beginner classes is for must register in advance at dance•·s with 0-4 years RecSports on or before experience and the WAdnesday, Jan. 28. advanced class is for Beginner lessons will be dancers with 5+ years expe­offered free of charge. riencn. Both classes are semester-long classes with a Cross Country Ski Clinics fee of $35. The beginner -HecSports will be spon­elass mtlets on Saturdays soring three clinics this win­from 10:15-11:45 a.m. and ter. The first clinic will be Tuf'sdays from 6:45-7:45 on Saturday, Jan. 31, at 11 
p.m. 
The advanced class a.m. and there will be two meets on Sundays from offered on Saturday, Feb. 7, 1:15-2:45 p.m. and one at 10 a.m. and the sec­Wednesdays from 6:45-7:45 ond one at 2 p.m. The fee 

p.m. 
All classes will be held for the clinic is $5 with an in Hockne Hm. 301. There additional $4 rental fee if will bf' an information meet­you need to rent skis. ing on Sunday, Jan. 25, at Registration in advance is 


1:30 p.m. in Rockne Rm. required for all three cross 
301. Sign-ups will begin at country ski clinics. 8 a.m. on Monday. Jan. 26, in the RecSports office, -Basketball Tickets space is limited. Classes Notre Dame basketball will begin on Saturday, Jan. students tickets for the 
31. Notre Dame vs. Syracuse men's basketball game 
Jazz Dunce -A Jazz tonight will be available at Dance dass will be offered the Joyce Center ticket office Saturdays and Tuesdays during business hours today from 12 p.m.-1:30 p.m. and at the arena before the (Sat.) and 8p.m.-9 p.m. game. Student tickets are (Tues.) in Hockrw Rm. ~01. priced at $4 a piece and one All lnvt>ls are welcome, but student ID card is required spaee is limited. There will for each ticket purchased. be an information mooting The game begins at 9 p.m. on Sunday. .Jan. 25, at 2 and will be televised nation­
p.m. in Hockne Rm. 301. ally by ESPN. 
Associated Press 
AMES, Iowa 
Stacy Frese scored 24 points and hit seven of Iowa State's school-record 14 3-pointers Tuesday night, sending the Cyclones to an 82-73 victory over No. 5 Texas Tech. 
Freshman Megan Taylor added 20 points for Iowa State (16-2 overall, 5-0 Big 12), which burned Texas Tech's zone with its outside shooting and shackled Tech star Alicia Thompson in the second half with its own collapsing zone. 
Thompson, surrounded by three players every time she touched the ball, was 1-for-6 in the second half after scor­ing 17 points in the first half. 
Tech (12-3, 5-1) was the highest ranked team Iowa State has ever beaten and left the Cyclones as the only Big 12 team unbeaten in conference play. Iowa State finished 14­for-24 on 3-pointers and shot. a season-high 55 percent over­all. 
The old Iowa State record for 3-pointers in a game was 13 against Missouri-Kansas City and Truman State earlier this season. The highest ranked team Iowa State had beaten previously was No. 9 Texas last season. 
Frese was 7-for-11 from 3­point range and her last one was the biggest. Iowa State was clinging to a 76-73 lead when Taylor drove the lane and had her shot blocked by Angie Braziel. 
Iowa State's Amanda Bartz ran down the loose ball and got it to Frese, who nailed her 3-pointer from the left of the key for a 79-73 lead with 50 seconds left. The Cyclones then made three of four free throws to wrap it up as Tech's Rene Jlanebutt missed two 3­point shots. 
Thompson's 19 points led Tech, which was coming ofT an 80-40 rout of Colorado . .Julie Luke got open when Iowa State began collapsing on Thompson and scored all of her 17 points in the second half. 
The game swung back and forth for first 36 minutes. Texas Tech led by as many as nine points in the first half but was up only 35-:n at halftime after Bartz hit a 3-pointnr at the buzzer. 
The Lady Haiders built their lead to six before Iowa State rallied again. The Cyclones made six straight shots, including five 3-pointers, dur­ing a span of 3:11 to take a 65-61 lead. 
Tech led for the last time at 71-70 on Hanebutt's 3-pointer from the top of the key with 
4:41 left. Taylor's steal and layup put Iowa State alwad to stay at 72-71 with 3:55 remaining. 
All five Iowa State starters scored in double figures . .Janel Grimm scored 14 points, while Bartz, who was 4-for-4 on 3­pointers and .Jayme Olson each had 12. 
Tcnncsscc125.DePaul46 
Tamika Catchings scornd a career-high 35 points and top­ranked Tennessee began t!H1 game with a 21-0 run Tuesday night to rout DePaul 125-46, the second-highest scoring game ever for the Lady Vols. 
The biggest scoring output and most lopsided victory in Tennessee history came Dec. 20, 1985, when the Lady Vols beat Hawaii Pacific by 92. 130-38. 
With Tuesday's victory, 
THnnesseH (20-0) also rcadwd 20 victories before Fnb. 1 for the first time. 
(atchings, tlH~ daughter of former NBA center Harvey Catchings, was chosen the top high school player in Illinois as a sophomore befon1 moving to Texas. 
She got her homncoming oiT to a quick start. scoring night of tl111 Lady Vols' first I I points, twice making stnals and driving tlw length of tlw 11oor for layups. 
DePaul (5-11) committed night turnovers in the first four minutes of the game and couldn't get niT a shot in tlw first 3 112 minut11s. 
Thn Blue Demons finally scored with 12:56 to go in the half on a follow-up shot by Briana Fitzgerald. 
DePaul. playing without injured scoring and n~bound leadPr Mfon Udoka and No. 3 scornr Fuchsia Forrester, who is also hurt, trailnd 5S-1 R at the half after 20 first-half turnovers and 22 pnrcnnt shooting (5-of-23). 
Thn Lady Vols dominatl~d despite only eight points from leading seornr Chamique lloldsdaw, 13 under her aver­age. S1~ me ka Han dall and Teresa Getnr added IR points each for TnnnessiHL Anne McDonald scored 10 for Dnl'aul. 
Ten nessel) increased t h P lnad to 76-2(1 early in the sec­ond half and went ahead I 00­34 on Catrhings' jump1)r with 9:4:{ left. 
Four-and-a-half minutes later. the Lady Vols went up by .80 at.. ll 9;;{? on a basknt by Knsten Aen Uem1mt. 
T f1 n n t) s s IH1 • t h e t w o -t i m P defending NCAA champion, has now won 2(1 straight dat­ing bark to last Mar<:h. 

Use Observer Classifieds 
The Observer accepts classifleds every bustness day from 8 a.m. ro .:l p.m. at the Notre Dame otficc. 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Oeadhne tor next-day cla,­
Classifieds sifieds is 3p.m. All classificds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classificds for content without issuing rdunds. 
..____N_o_T_Ic_E_s_ __.l 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. Don't take a chance with an unkown agency or some 1-800 number. Limited space available, so book now! Anthony Travel, Inc. Lafortune Student Center 
. 631-7080 
Spring Break '98 Cancun. Jamaica. Bahamas & Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties' Sell Trips. Earn Cash & Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
'"ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR SPRING BREAK. GROUP DIS­COUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE. 
LEISURE TOURS HAS PACK· AGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. 1-800-838-8203. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 
Long Dts. Call for 19c/min 24 hr For a FREE rechargable card send stamped envelope to Box 
681. Notre Dame. IN 46556 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Missing: WRISTWATCH lost just before semester's end Fossil -leather band/white face Please call Nicole @ 0565 
Lost: Gold and silver wristwatch. Huge sentimental value. If found call Becky x4215. 

.__I_W':_J\_N_T_E_o_ __, 
Aide to assist dyslexic 
student with reading and 
notetaking at Clay Middle 
SchooL 10:15-12:45, M-F, 
Jan 26-June 8; $6.00/hr 
No degree required. Call Asst Prin Vicky Thomas, 243-7145. 
""Interested in Making Extra Money'"' Large Physical Therapy Practice looking for students to make Follow-Up phone calls to see how our patients are doing. Filing and computer entry also available. Flex. Hours. Call Gerard or Doug Now! "'233-5754... 
Need child care 30 hrs/wk. Must have transportation. 271-1935 
ADVERTISING SALES INTERN­SHIP University Directories is hiring stu­dents'to sell yellow page advertis­ing for the official campus tele­phone directory this summer. Commission based pay structure. Training program. Excellent sales & marketing experience. Call 1-800­743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.uni­versitydirectories.com 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY ' Models needed for figure drawing classes in the art department. Please call: 631-7602. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 House tor Rent 
Two Blocks from Campus 4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer. August for FaiL Includes Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and off-street Parking. 
MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! Call 289-4712 
1 Bed room furnished apt in a home in good residential area. 10 mins from ND. Share kitchen. Security system. No smoking,drinking or partying. Postgrad student or faculty only. $ 400 per month. Security deposit $250. References required. Call277-0189 after 3.30 pm 
2 Bedroom 2nd Floor Apt. $450/ mth. Short term 6 mth. lease. View of St. Joe river from 2nd Fir. porch. 1906 historic home. security sys­terl), walk-in closets. storage, off­street parking. Gas. electric. phone. and cable by tenant Call Greg @ 288-2654 
Roommate wanted for 3 bdrm house. Safe. $208+dep. +uti I. Call 291-7460. 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS -5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
2 BEDRM HOUSE FOR RENT GRANGER-WASHER, DRYER. REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH PLUS SECURITY CALL BOB 232-6434 6 BDRM HOME. NEAR CAMPUS. 
WASHER/DRYER SUMMER OR 
FALL.272-6551 
FOR SALE 
Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM, 
Color monitor includes carrying 
case, manual. etc. 
Call Greg @288-2654 
Cannon Bubblejet 200e, new car­tridge, $90obo. Italian drafting table. $80, adj. drfting chair, $85. Chris 631-9795. 
Brass bed. queen size with deluxe orthopedic Mattress set and Frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219-862-2082 
For Sale: Convenient Condo living just a few blocks from Notre Dame. 3 bdrms., 2 full baths and access to clubhouse with pool and work out room. Corner unit with Contemporary flair. Call Trace Cole at 243-9565 tor more info. 
TICKETS 
WANTED-ND vs MIAMI B-Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 
ALAN JACKSON TICKETS FOR SALE 277~1659 
PERSONAL 
CATERING-CALL FAZOLI'S 277-4008 ATIN: GAY, LESBIAN. and BISEXUAL Students. Faculty. and StalL 
ORIGINAL Student-Run Group will hold 1st Meeting and Movie Night of 1998 on THURSDAY, 1/22 at 7:30pm. 
Calllnfo-line at 236-9661 for details and location. 
FAT TONY the highly reputed ensemble featur­ing Mike Mirro. Brendan Bayliss, Joel Cummins and Pony will debut at 
BRIDGET'S 
TONIGHT! Critics agree: "...they groove with a masterful sense of musicianship I can only dream of" 
-Leonard Bernstein "Three thumbs up!! I'd see the show twice every day." 
-Roger Ebert "I love Mike. He's great." -Mike's mom 
I wish my computer would work 
not much to say today, sorry.. 
The Saint Edward's Hall Players present: Rhinoceros Thurs. Fri, and Sat Washington Hall Tix $3 at Lafortune or at door 
Notre Dame Men's Club Volleyball team has a game Thurs. @ 7pm in the PIT (JACC) versus Western Mich U. Come see it! 
nothing for mark today he has nothing today Bouncey Bouncey Bouncey... 
And my first act after I take over the world... 
To kill those who: 
a) 
Decide to stop and have a con­versation in the middle of dining hall high traffic zones 

b) 
Those who walk FIVE across the sidewalks 

c) 
Anyone else who generally annoys me... 


i'd vote for you CONGRATS CORRINE BURNICK! LOVE. YOUR ROOMMATES 
back by popular demand ... no real­ly i want to ... kind of ... how about a muddy blary but it's with tabasco 
more later i'd feel more like it if i had been elsewhere last evening with every­one else 
I got something right here. Fever in the funk house! Tell Copernicus and Einstein the 
world's address. A dress? No, address. These apples are delicious. Next presentation was a new dictio­
nary; she circled the word romance. Bye. 

-~·----------~------------------------A----------------------------------~ 
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
r--------------,


<<t;.'" ·NO LIMIT 
Large wj 1 Topping 
Edison Plaza Location/ Valid NO-Saint Mary's-Holy Cross ID Required
.._ ______________ 
1 Spring '98/ Deep Dish $1 Extra .J 
r--------------,


And Every Other Day!! 
~,_ 

~$15.99 
Large 1 Topper, 20 Wings, l";~~r~ 1 2-Liter 
Edison Plaza Location/ Valid NO-Saint Mary's-Holy Cross lD Required Spring '9S/ Deep Dish $1 Extra
t_ ______________.J 
,


r--------------, 




~,. ~$15.99 .. 
3 Large 1 Toppers 
Edison Plaza Location/ Valid NO-Saint Mary's-Holy Cross ID Required Spring '98/ Deep Dish $1 Extra .J
1... ___.___________ 
Edison Plaza & SR 23 www.dominos.com 



..................~~--------------------------~--~--------------~~~------------------------------------------·--------------------·· ­
Wednesday, January 21, I 998 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• NFL 

Skeptics question Flutie's ability to play in NFL 
Associated l'ress 
OHCIIAHD PARK, N.Y. 
I lis hair is longer with a touch of gray. tlw cn1ases in his face deepPr. Other than that, not much has r.hanged sinee Doug FlutiP last played in the NFL 
Af'tPI' signing a two-yf1ar con­tract with the Buffalo Bills, Flutie wound up answering the samo questions Tunsday that havn followed him throughout his caroer. 
Is lw tall Pmmgh to play in the NFL'? lie was introduc:nd by thn Bills standing 5-foot-9 -and that's wearing one-inch hneled rowboy boots. 
"All I know is that I playPCI thn gamn at my )wight all my life. I 
•NBA 

know no different," Flu tie said. "This is a game. It's football. I know one way to play it." 
Over the last eight years in the Canadian Football League, Flutie was named the league's most valuabln player six times and took the Toronto Argonauts to the Grey Cup title the last two years. 
In the last two seasons, he completed 64 pereent of his passes for 11,225 yards, 76 touehdowns and 41 interenp­tions as the CFL's marquee player. lie was expected to make about $1.1 million in Canadian eurrcney (about $700,000 U.S.) next year had he signed anothnr eon tract with the Argos. 
"''m taking a risk, no question about it," Flutie said. "Right now, my decision is not about money. It's about playing foot­ball and having fun. The CFL put the fun back in football for me. I'm not going to let anybody take the fun out of it for me ever again." 
Flutie became a folk hero after winning the lleisman Trophy with Boston College in 1984, but his NFL career never took off after stints with Chieago and New England. He played well at times with both teams, but the knock on him has been that he is too short to be efl'ec­tive. 
"Doug has been fighting the height problem his whole life. 
and he's always won," said Bills study his playbook boforo a personnel director A . .J. Smith, game. who scouted Flutie. "lie's a bet· The Bills were looking for a ter football player with the mobile quartnrback in hopes of Buffalo Bills than when he left competing with fast, blitzing (the NFL). Is he the exception to defenses that have been built the rule? We're about to l'ind around the l!~ague. They would out." probably need to install two 
The Bills have not had a offenses to suit Flutie and steady quarterback since .Jim Collins, who went to rival high Kelly retired last February. Last schools in Mass<u:husetts but season, Buffalo brought in Billy are nine years apart in age. .Joe Hobert to ehallenge first-"The last time I talked to Todd year starter Todd Collins in an Collins, ho was in high school experiment that failed miser-and I was with the New England ably. Patriots," Flutie said. "We were 
Collins was yanked twice from talking about what eolleges hn the starting role and replaced was going to (attend). Wc1'rn all both times by Alex Van Pelt. professionals. Whnn it comes to HobPrt was releasnd during the training camp, we'll linn up and season aftnr admitting he didn't start compnting." 


Top two draft picks square off as Nets defeat Spurs 
Associated l'ress 
FAST HUTIIEHFOHD. N.J. 
ThPI'n was none of the hoopla of Miduwl Jordan and Charles Barkley nHwting in a gamn of aging gn~ats. or the emotion of Larry Bird returning to Boston as thn Indiana Pacnrs coach. 
But thP showdown Monday night bntwnnn Tim Duncan and Knith Van llorn. thn top two draft picks, provided the NBA with a promising glimpse down tlw road. 
Forget that Van Ilorn' shot a dismal 7 of :w in the New .Jersc~y Nets' 95-84 victory or that Duncan committed a team-high seven of tlw San Antonio Spurs' IIJ turnovers. 
The two rookies wern tho show at both c~nds of the court, overshadowing the likes of San Antonio's David Hobinson and New .Jersny's .Jayson Williams. 
Duncan. the No. 1 draft piek, had tlw lwttnr statistics with 24 points. 17 rnhounds and three blo1:ks. Van llorn. the sncond pick. had 21 points and 10 rebounds. but lw also ignited a key run na rly in tlw second quartnr by hitting three 3­pointnrs.. 
"This is the future of the 
In ague," said Williams, who 
grahlwd 18 rc1bounds and lim­
ited Hobinson to 13 points. 
"Two guys who stayc~d in eol­
lege for four years. good guys 
who whnn they're on tho noor 
play with high intensity." 

~li htAt~~ndanL~ 
Requirements: 
• 
Aqe 21 or older 

• 
No taller than 5'8" 

• 
Minimum reach 77 inches 

• 
2years college or previbus customer service experience helpful 

• 
Must relocate within 30 miles of Cinn.IN.KY airport upon hire 


MaiVfax resume w/~ary history to: P.O. Box 75352 Cincinnati, OH 45275 

eoe, m/1/d/v 

Not only did Duncan and Van Ilorn play well, thny did it most of the night playing in each other's face. It wasn't .Jordan doing his thing against an aver­age player at one end and Barkley getting his points against a mediocre millionairn at thn other. 
These were two outstanding, young players giving their all tci lind an answer for the other's game. And the games they played at power forward were v1~ry different. 
The 7 -foot Duncan is an ath­letie low-post player who also can shoot a medium-range jumpnr. Van Horn, who is 2 inches smaller, is more of a leaper down low but his game is at its best on the perimeter. 
"That's almost not really a matchup because of the style differences." Hobinson said. "I don't really consider Keith a big guy, not in the style Tim 
(ANCUt-1 BAHAMAS
I 
l.4 HOURS OF .FREE DRINKS! 
7 nights from $299! Includes RT a1r, hotel, 24 hours of free drmks and weekly pany schedule of sprang break even11! Organize 15 
fre1nds and EARN A FREE TRIPI 
lpltllllnilldl Clll nawll 
~:l®©®:l®28:l®~~~ 
9lOC-.IIh-......, ...III'I,MAO.UU -.M •..-lM u~ u 

is." will go to one of them. 
Thn differences gave both "I knew this would be a big players an opportunity to show deal but I didn't think it would what they eould and couldn't be this big of a deal," Duncan do. It also will fuel arguments said. "I didn't think y'all would about who deserves thn rookie blow it up this much." of the year award, for it surely Duncan was powerful insidn, hitting I 0 of 17 from the field and working wnll on tho boards at both Pnds. Van Ilorn proved a difficult matchup although his shot just wasn't falling as thn Nc1ts Pndml tlw Spurs' fivP­garnP winning streak. 
Ticket Distribution 


cAt <D';£augfjCtncAubitorium. aanuar.Y 29, 30, 31 
CLASS OF '98 PI-«E.SEI 




ru·s #1 CAMPUS BAND 
PLAYING COVERS & ORIGINALS ; 



NO ADDITIONAl COVER 


Wednesday, January 21, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
•NHL 

Rangers skate past Blues with three poWer play goals 

16 10-8-5 15-8-2 15 10-7-4 14-8-4 16 9-8-5 12-8-4 21 10-11-1 9-10-6 20 10-8-3 7-12-5 25 13-11-5 4-14-1 
19-6-0 10-8-3 13-6-4 12-5-5 12-7-4 11-10-4 9-10-6 6-10-6 5-13-5 10-10-5 8-13-2 8-12-4 7-11-6 2-18-2 
13-5-5 17-6-3 16-6-4 12-5-6 15-8-4 11-9-2 12-6-5 9-12-3 8-11-6 10-9-3 7-12-4 7-12-3 

49 24 9 16 64 146 116 12-3-10 12-6-6 46 19 19 8 45 129 129 11-8-2 8-11-6 47 16 22 9 41 116 136 8-11-4 8-11-5 46 16 24 6 38 109 128 6-13-3 10-11-3 48 15 25 8 38 109 142 7-14-3 8-11-5 
. 48 

12 26 10 34 119 147 8-13-3 4-13-7 48 12 28 8 32 126 169 6-13-4 6-15-4 
in an outstanding performance Osgood 6:22 into the final peri­in stopping 25 shots in the first od. Vyacheslav Kozlov tied the two periods. game by deflecting Brendan 
Souray gave the Devils the Shanahan's pass past Martin lead by beating a screened Brodeur with 8:09 to play. 
CERTIFICATE $5 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A very well-rested Mike Hichter dazzled, a rejuvenated Brian Leetch scored and New York made the most of the 
• man-advantage as the Rangers defeated the St. Louis Blues 3-1 Tuesday night The underachieving Rangers, now 6-4 in their last 10 games, still looked shaky and defen­sively weak in the first two periods, giving up 28 shots to the Blues while getting only 17 themselves. But they made the most of the latter to score on all three of their power plays, while Hiehter. sharp in his first start since Jan. 3, t.ook care of almost all of the former. 
And New York got three key players back from injuries ­dt~fnnsemen Jeff Beukeboom and Ulf Samuelsson and center 
-~~"' . . j'J#;f'''"' 

YC!ItS,ill,gcit;:~t! 
~-'~ 

Notre Dame (and the guardsmen) love you Fran! 
Brian Skrudland. 
Leetch, after an uncertain first period when he nearly scored on his own team but assisted on Niklas Sundstrom's goal, picked up his aggressive­ness as did the rest of the team to score in the second. 
As Blues goalie Grant Fuhr dropped a slapshot from Bruce Driver and turned back two point-blank Ranger shots, Leetch dashed in and swatted one-handed at the loose puck, knocking it over the 
Leetch is now tied with Walt Tkaczuk for fourth place on the 
Rangers' career scoring list with 678. He has a five-game points streak, with four goals and three assists. 
St. Louis closed it to 2-1 less than four minutes later when Pierre Turgeon fired a 30-foot shot past Richter from the left circle. 
But Richter stopped several close-call tying attempts in the ensuing minutes and Pat LaFontaine scored off Wayne Gretzky's feed with just over a minute left in the period to make it 3-1. 
The Rangers started the scor­ing in a first period that saw them outshot 11-6. Leetch and Sundstrom passed back and forth to get the puck to the Blues' zone, and Sundstrom took the last pass from Kevin Stevens at the front of the net to tip it past Fuhr at 3:43. 
New Jersey 3, Detroit 1 
Scott Niedermayer set up late third-period goals by Jason Arnott and Dave Andreychuk to lead the New Jersey Devils to a 3-1 victory over the Detroit Red Wings on Tuesday night. 
Rookie defenseman Sheldon Souray also scored as New Jersey took advantage of seven power-play chances to outshoot the Red Wings 36-17 in a game that was scoreless until the third period. 
The only reason the game was tied that long was Detroit goaltender Chris Osgood turned 
$5 

s5.oo on certificate Atria Salon s5.oo off certificate 
CERTIFICATE GOOD TOWARDS ANY MANICURE OR PEDICURE SERVICE NOT VALID FOR CASH. CANNOT BE USED FOR RETAIL MUST PRESENT CERTIFICATE TO RECEIVE SPECIAL SAVINGS 
(CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS APPLY) 
289 5080 289 5080 
$5 1357 N. Ironwood Dr. South Bend EXPIRATION DATE: 1-30-98 $5 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 




is accepting applications for: 
1998-1999 



Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is· entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume and jive-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 23, 1998. For additional information about the position or application process, con­tact Brad Prendergast at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
page 18 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
•NBA 

Webber in trouble with law 
Ass<Kiated Press 
SEAT PLEASANT, Md. 
In too much of a hurry to get 
to practice, Chris Webber ended 
up with a face full of pepper 
spray, six hours in jail and a 
marijuana charge. 
After a routine traffic stop for 
speeding. the Washington 
Wizards forward was arrested 
Tuesday and charged with 
assault. n~sisting arrest, posses­
sion of marijuana, driving under 
the inlluenn~ of marijuana and 
five other traffic-related viola­
tions. 
All the eharges are misde­
nwanors, and Webber will prob­
ably be tried before a District 
Court judge sometime this 
spring. The assault charge alone 
carries a maximum sentence of 
I 0 years in prison and a $2,500 
linn. 
"We look forward to having 
the mattPr tried," said Webber's 
lawyer, Bruce Marcus. Webber, 
who was released on his own 
n~eognizance, avoided reporters 
by sitting in the back seat of his 
black. dark-windowed 1998 
Lincoln Navigator as it departed 
from a rear exit of the Prince 
Ceorge's County District Ill 
police station. 
Webber, 24, was driving the 
Navigator, a sports utility vehi­
de, wlwn lw was stopp1~d about 
9:30 a.m. on a four-lane high­way in Landover, Md., on the way to a I 0 a.m. practice at the MCI Center in downtown 
• U.S. SOCCER 

Washington. 
Police said a marked squad car tailing Webber had to go faster than the posted speed limit of 40 mph to keep up with his vehicle. 
Aecording to the police report, Webber did not have a license or registration and offered his credit card as proof of identifi­cation. The report said Webber was "slow to answer" questions, and struck the hand of the policeman when the officer went to open the ear door. 
"The officer attempted to remove him," Prince George's police spokesman Hoycc llolloway said. "He resisted, an assault occurred. The (pepper) spray was deployed to the effect the arrest." 
Webber was handcuffed and taken to the police station. The car was impounded and searched. and officers found the stub of a marijuana cigarette and ashes in the front center ash tray. They also found traces of marijuana leaves, ashes, stems and seeds on the rear of the floorboard on the driver's side. 
Wizards general manager Wes Unseld said: "Until we have an opportunity to speak with Chris and the authorities involved in the incident, we will have no other comments." 
The NBA does not test its players for marijuana, and the players' union has resisted the league's recent attempts to 
tlw U.S. Soccer Federation. Friedel from Liverpool of The AmPricans will train at England's Premier Lnague. The 
rH~arby Trevoux, ncar the River only other healthy goalkeeperSaone, until leaving for Paris on in camp is Tony Meola, who .June 1:~. Tlw Americans npPn hasn't played an international against European ehampion game since July 4, 1994, a 1-0 
Germany at Pare des Princes in loss to Brazil in the second Paris on June 15, then return to 
round of the World Cup. BPilnviiiP the following day. Midfielder Brian Maisonneuve Aftnr playing Iran in Lyon on was dropped from the roster 
.lunn 21. the Americans move for Saturday's game after to Pnrnic, 25 miles west of spraining his right foot during Nantes. They will train at the practice Friday. Forward Joe-
Try a Large 

SMOOTHIE TODAY! 
"A Healthy Meal in Itself" 
Campus Shoppes I8.37 South Bend Avenue South Bend. Indiana 46637 219-271-9540 

---------------------------~---------------------------­

' 

CO<Id oaly •Ilk ._._lidlll. M.t vMd wid~ UJ' Miler.&,., Sell 
wrrt.W,. O.VrwpoapttNd...,.,.wilk, Es,W. 2'71V9el c ... , • ._.... h'• '•"·l.kt. 

FREE! 
Bur • rep..lar ur larwe oup or t'on., .,froaen yoprt a pt &nl)lMr of equal or le-r v.olw-FRFR 
~ 


Geod~-..ll>c .....httal. Noi•Ud.....,........... 
s.t\IIIW..a,..._._t:aln.T.,...tn. Eapitel 212811181 r.-•1 ldi..e h'• Y..,n, Lut 
modify the current drug agree­ment. 
However, the league did sus­pend Isaiah Rider for two games last year for off-court transgres­sions that included a conviction for marijuana possession. Allen Iverson drew a one-game sus­pension after pleading no con­test following his arrest on mar­ijuana and weapons charges. 
"The only time we would decide on a course of action is if a player is convicted of a crime," the NBA said in a state­ment. 
Webber is the latest Wizards player to have a brush with the law. 
In November 1996, Juwan Howard was charged with drunken driving in the District of Columbia when his Mercedes was stopped for speeding on a Washington street. The charges were dropped after Howard agreed to enter an alcohol reha­bilitation and education pro­gram. 
In September 1997, Rod Strickland was charged in Washington with drunken dri­ving and disorderly conduct. His trial is scheduled for Feb. 24. 
Webber scored 31 points and grabbed 10 rebounds for the Wizards on Saturday in a win over the Los Angeles Clippers. I le has scored 20 or more points in 12 straight games. 
The Wizards play at home_ L------------------------___J 
against Portland on Wednesday night. 


U.S. team prepares for World Cup 
Associated Press 
NEWYOHK 
Thn U.S. soccer team will !nave for thn World Cup on June 4 and train in Trevoux. France, b1~fore its opener against Germany. 
Tlw U.S. team, which plays Scotland on May 30 at East Huthnrford. N.J., in its final warmup, will arrive on June 5 and stay at Chateau de Pizay in Bnllnville, about 25 miles north of Lynn, under the tentative sdwduln released Tuesday by Terrain des Sports, near their hotel, until playing Yugoslavia at Nantes on June 25 in the final first-round game. 

If the Americans advance to the second round, they would play Belgium, the Netherlands, Mexico or South Korea at Montpellier or Toulouse on June 29. 
The U.S. team opens its 1998 schedule Saturday against Sweden in an exhibition game at Orlando. Fla. 
Also Tuesday, the Americans recalled goalkeeper Brad Max Moore rejoined the team following six weeks with Emelec in Ecuador. 
The Observer: 
"Filet Mignon for the mind." 
• COLLEGE BASKETBALL 


Hot shooting leads Duke to 101-66 rout 
GREENSBORO, N.C. 
William Avery scored 11 points during a 2 1/2-minute span in the first half as Duke rolled over North Carolina A&T 101-66 Tuesday night inthe Blue Devils' first game since· regaining the No. 1 ranking. 
Trajan Langdon also added 11 of his 16 points in Duke's 57-point opening half for the Blue Devils (17 -1 l. 
The Aggies, led by Jonathan Richmond's 15 points, fell to 4-10 and 0-11 all-time against schools from the Atlantic · Coast Conference. 
Duke, which was No. 1 for the first two weeks of 
. December before losing to Michigan, made 20 of 33 shots (60.6 percent) in the opening 20 minutes to grab a 27-point halftime lead. The Blue Devils started each half with 10-0 runs and were nearly as dominant in between. The Aggies did close to 22­
15 midway through the first 
half before Langdon convert­. ed a three-point play, made 
a pair of technical free 
throws called against A&T 
coach Hoy Thl)mas. and 
Roshown McLeod's shot in 
tho lane made it 29-17. 
Avery, a backup point guard. then sparked Duke's 16-2 run. scoring 11 of his 16 points on two layups, a shot in the lane, a 3-pointer and two frfle throws. Langdon closed the spurt with a 3-pointer and Duke was up 50-2..3. 
The lead reached 37 early in the second half as McLeod scored five points and Langdon added anothor 3­pointcr. 
The Aggies. who average 20 turnovers a game, had 10 in the first half and five more in the first 3 1/2 min­
utes  of  the  second  half  
against  Duke's  pressure  
defense.  

The ACC is now 36-0 against teams from the Mid­Eastern Athletic Conference during the past live seasons. 


Interested in speaking to high school prospective N D students ahout the ~~5\[1 weeki life at Notre Dame? 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers and a large merchant network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment, and talented team-oriented professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty amazing feats. 
As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for Co~ruter Science and MIS individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 
Please join us at the: 

1998 SUMMER/INTERNSHIP JOB FAIR Thursday, January 22nd • 1:30pm-4:30pm University of Notre Dame Joyce Center Concourse, 2nd Fir. 
We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning services, ATM, softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to: 
NOVUS Services, Inc.,. Human Resources, IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, Riverwoods, IL 60015, 
Fax: (8471 405-1388 
~NOVUS ~SERVICES 
Taking charge in a changing world. 
www.novusnet.com 
Equal Opportunity Employer M/FfDN 


---~­
Wednesday, January 21, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
-

• SUPER BOWL XXXII 

Elway may be saving best for last 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO John Elway ponders the ques­tion for a few seronds. 
Would hn givn up all his nionny to win his first Super Bowl ring? 
"Ynah." hn l'inally answers, "my football money." 
John Elway, quarterback and nntrnpn~neur. is quite logical as hn approaches what is likely to be his last shot at an NFL cham­pionship and perhaps his last 
gam1~. 
lie is. aftnr all. a 37 -ynar-old multimillionaire. the result of a dna! in whi<:h he sold his seven automobile agnneins in the Denvnr arna to Wayne lluiznnga. who owns most of profnssional sports in South Florida. And he will, h11 says, eonsid11r retirement -win or losn -after Sunday's game with Grcnn Bay. 
So ·yes, he'd give up the $30 million or so he's made in 15 NFL seasons to win that elusive ring, but not $80 million or so in car cash. After all, he has a wife and four kids to support. 
But car dealerships aren't on Elway's mind this week -nor are they on the minds of anyone else. 
For this Super Bowl is John Elway IV -his first appearance back at the NFL's title game since 1990 when he and the Denver Broncos lost 55-10 to San Francisco, their third lop­sided Super Bowl defeat in four seasons. 
Those losses remain a stain on Elway's career-just as a Super Bowl victory has eluded the other illustrious members of the quarterback class of 1983: Buffalo's Jim Kelly (0-4) and Miami's Dan Marino (0-1). Their rookie year was the last time an AFC team even won a Super Bowl. 

So while Elway seems relaxed 
this week, he's also made his 
sense of urgency clear to his 
teammates. 
"Flying back after beating 
Pittsburgh, John called us all 
together," wide receiver Rod 
Smith says." 
He said, 'I've been here three 
times. We're all high and mighty 
now. But if we go and lose, we 
go right back down to the bot­
tom. You don't know the wrath 
that comes down on you if you 
don't win." 
Elway certainly knows. . 
After the Broncos lost by a 
combined 136-40 to the Giants, 
Redskins and 49ers in 1987, 
1988 and 1990, he got the blame 
because the quarterback always 
does. 

Elway was 29 after the third 
loss. just entering a quarter­
back's prime years. It looked like 
he might be back a fourth, fifth, 
sixth, seventh time. 
But those three AFC titles 
were forged largely on Elway's 
strong arm and legs that could 
get him away from almost any 
trouble. 

Many of his 44 game-saving 
drives came during those years, 
including the career-defining 98­
yard march that tied the 1986 
AFC title game in Cleveland 
where the Broncos won in over­
time. 

But the talent surrounding 
Elway was barely better than 
average and the 55-10 loss to 
the 49ers started a downhill 
slide. The best defensive players 
were growing old and Elway's 
relations with coach Dan Reeves 
were deteriorating -the ever­
rigid Reeves was trying to keep a 
tight rein on his quarterback. 
The low point came in 1991 'when Reeves fired Mike Shanahan, 
Elway's longtime quarterback 
coach, offensive coordinator and 
confidante. Shanahan went on to 
------------------------------,back," he says. "My arm isn't as
LATE NIGHT 
OLYMPICS 

• h 01 •


Late N1g t ymp1cs XII Fr.ldav January 23 
I I 

7.•00 PM • 4•.00 AM Joyce Center 
The twelfth annual Late Night Olympics is scheduled for Friday, January 23, 7 998. The proceeds from this all­night sports extravaganza go to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. For more information, contact your hall representative or call RecSports at 7-6 700. 
'98 LATE NIGHT OLYMPICS TEAMS 
Zahm • Farley • Regina Cavanaugh • Stanford • St. Ed's Carroll • Lewis Lyons • Morrissey Pangborn • Fisher • Holy Cross Dillon • Badin Howard • Alumni Knott • LeMans • Pasquerilla East Walsh • Sorin Siegfried • Pasqueril/a West O'Neill • McGlinn Keenan • Breen-Phillips • McCandless 
Welsh Family • Keough 
Friday, january 23, 1998 • 7:00PM-4:00AM • joyce Center • 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by ([:~ 

KRT Photo 

John Elway is looking to put an exclamation point on his brilliant career and pick up that elusive Super Bowl victory. 
win a Super· Bowl ring in 1995 as the 49ers' offensive coordina­tor, and returned as head coach of the Broncos the next season. 
More important was. that Terrell Davis arrived that same season, giving Elway the run­ning back he'd never had. Still, after a disappointing playoff loss to Jacksonville last season, the Broncos had to get here as a wild-card. They are only the fourth team that needed to win three games to make it to the Super Bowl. 
So the focus is back on Elway, eight years older since his last Super Bowl, and -in his own words -a shadow of the athlete he once was. 
''I'm probably not as good a player, but I'm a better quarter­
strong, but it's more accurate 
and I d.on't run as much. Experience makes up for a lot of things."
So if those early Super Bowls were the athletic Elway against more conventional quarterbacks 
-Phil Simms, Doug Williams, 
even Joe Montana -this one is the conventional Elway against the athletic Brett Favre. 
"He was my idol," says Favre, nine years younger than Elway. 
"He could do things I could only dream of doing. He was someone you wanted to watch because you always want to watch things in sports that are out of the ordinary. 
"Now that I can do some of those things, it's like looking in Cl. mirror." 
Elway, a friend and golfing buddy of Favre's, finds all this amusing and a bit ironic as he eases his way through Super Bowl week, facing an onslaught of repetitive questions. He even has a few laughs at his own expense. 
So he reflects on the ego he brought to the NFL -as the first pick in the 1983 draft, he refused to play for the then­Baltimore Colts. Instead, he used an offer to play baseball for the New York Yankees' organization as leverage to force a trade. He ended up in Denver. 
He was reminded of that Tuesday when who should pop up with a microphone during media day but Rex Hudler, a journeyman major leaguer who yelled to Elway, "Remember pulling on the pinstripes for Mr. Steinbrenner 20 years ago?" 
&XT~R~ST~D &H MJUmJU.. JUU'S? H~~D ~X~RC&S~? LORH TJ\~~OHOO fROM••• 
World Taekwondo Federation Club 
International Grand Master 7th Degree Black Belt World Championship Coach Pan Am Championship Coach and Referee Recognized by International Olympic Committee 
Come and join us for a BEGINNERS class starting this Sunday 
Class schedule: Saturdays Adv. 4:00-4:45; Beg. 4:45-5:00 Sundays Adv. 7:00-7:45 pm; Beg. 7:45 -8:30pm Thursdays?? Rockne Gym rm #301 
Questions? Call Instructor Anita 1-6869 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
• WRESTLING 

-
Tyson set to return to the ring as WWF wrestler 
Assodatcd Press 
LAS VEGAS 
Orw thing is certain about Mike Tyson's appearancl:' in Wrnstlemania: lie will play a had guy. 
Tyson doesn't figure to play a wrestJpr, however, despite World Wrestling Federation owner Vince McMahon's attmnpts to sell him as one during a WWF show Monday night in Frnsno, Calif. 
"The chances of him wrnstling are VHY slim," a sourcl' familiar with Tyson said. "These guys are profes­sional wrestlers and they take falls for a living. Why would he risk a broken neck or somPthing by doing that?" 

.. Tyson was supposed to be only a guest referee at Wn~stlemania on March 29 in Boston. But in the world of professional wrestling, things can turn as quiekly as a good figure four move. Just as MeMahon was to announce Tyson's appear­ancn. wrestler Steve Austin appeared from nowhere Monday night to enter the ring and question Tyson's man­hood. An obscenn gesture here and a push there, and sudden­ly bad blood had developnd. With a straight face, McMahon suggested later that Tyson would wrnstle Austin, tlw WWF's most popular wrestler. at Wrnstlcmania. Tyson will bn the bad guy, as evidenced by the booing he got Monday night and the "Tyson Bites" signs held aloft by sev­eral fans. "Mikn is refusing to guest referee. Austin embarrassed Mikn Tyson and the WWF with his remarks. It was uncalled for and very unprofessional," McMahon said. "Mike is now saying he wants Stone Cold Stnve Austin." Nevada boxing regulators say they have no control over what Tyson docs outside the boxing ring as long as he docsn 't box while his license is still revoked for biting Evander llolyticld's cars. Tyson is banned from boxing until at least July, when he is expm~ted to ask Nevada box­ing regulators to give him back his boxing license. "If he wants to make a living outside boxing, it's all right with us," said Dr. Elias Ghanem, chairman of the 
... 
Nevada State Athletic Commission. 
Earlier, though, Tyson adviser Sig Hogich said the former heavyweight champion would only referee and would not wrestle because he "does not want to do anything to jeopardize his relationship with the Nevada boxing com­mission." Rogich could not be reached for comment Tuesday. 
Tyson reportedly is being paid some $3 million for his wrestling show appearances, good money but far less than the $30 million he got to fight llolyfield last June. 
Tyson is the biggest pay-per­view draw in boxing history, though, and the WWF is evi­dently banking on him selling the pay-per-view show in Boston. 
''I'm sure he'll sell a few hundred thousand pay-per­view buys," said Marc Hatner, executive director of the com­mission. 
Tyson's wrestling persona was set Monday when the for­mer heavyweight champion shoved Austin on the WWF's 
Mike Tyson may be hanging up his gloves to settle it in the ring with Steve Austin in Wrestlemania.
"Raw is War" program. 



Don't miss your chance!!! 
Summer Service Projects '98 
CENTER FOR 
SOCIAL CONCERNS 


OlAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM .-SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Saturday • January 24 • 8 pm 
TICkets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Offtce in Olaughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., Monday -Friday. Credit card orde!s by phone: 
219/284-4626 ,,;.,.,.,,., c.u.,.~ 
Tickets also av_ailable at all MCOEREAE~ /~~ticket centers ~=/Vn •'-
FoR THE ARTS 

including Orbit Music and LS. Ayres. NOTRE DAME,IN To charge tickets by phone, call 
219/272-7979 
To purchase onllne:hHp: 1/www.tlcketmasler.com 
DEADLINE: January 23rd 
Applications are available at the CSC (Sign up for an interview, too!) 
-8 weeks ofservice-learning -$1700 Tuition Scholarship -3 elective Theology credits 
Questions??? 


Call Sue ( 1-7867) or Erika ( 4-1494) 
See. it worked. So stop by Fazoli's for free soft drink refills and unlimited 








Free! 
freshly baked breadsticks when you dine in. Hurry. Save. No coupon required. 100% Guaranteed. As seen on TV. 
52770 US Route 33N, 277-4008, South Bend 317 W. McK.inley,255-2551, Mishawaka 1248 Nappanee Street, 262-9873, Elkhart 

Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
Irish 
continued from page 24 
boards p11r eontnst. 
Syracuse also boasts the Big East's loading shot-blocker. Etan Thomas has turned away 3.2 shots pm· gam11, one block more pnr ganw than anyone else in tlw confnrnncc. 
"Tiwy are very athletic and can scorn at ev11ry position," said Wychn of Syracuse's ability. "Tl111y hav11 great outside shoot­nrs and (their forwards) can put llw ball on the floor." 
Thern is no doubt that the Irish could usn some of the Orangnnwn's balance both tonight and in tlw stretch run of tlw confnn•ncp, schndule. 
Wychn and fnllow junior Phil llickey will bn nxpectnd to sup­plement Garrity's output as the jockeying for position in the Big East Tournament heats up. Hickey and senior Derek Manner have provided a formidable rebounding force to take some of 
'WE'vETWO  GOT TOP  
TEAMS  IN  
THE  CONFERENCE  IN  

SYRACUSE AND VILlANOVA SO WE HAVE TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THE OPPOR­TUNITY AT HOME.' 
Antoni Wyche 

the load off of last year's Big East Player of the Year, but it certainly would not hurt the 
~------­
The Observer • SPORTS 
Irish to gElt more than 10 points a game out of a couple of other players on a consistent basis. 
To Hickey's credit, he has averaged 10.7 points and 7.9 rebounds per contest, but incon­sistency and missed free throws continue to plague the 6-foot-1 0 center. 
A win over Syracuse would do plenty to erase memories of a home loss to Pittsburgh and last weekend's debacle in New Jersey, especially in the eyes of the post-season tournament selction committees. 
The importance of this two­game homestand was not lost on Wyche. 
"We've got two top teams in the conference in Syracuse and Villanova," stated the third-year guard, "so we have to take advantage of the opportunity at home." 

Applications are auailable in the SUB offic,~, 2nd floor LaFortune 
--~~---~------------:::-----------­

..
C E Pf T E R F 0 il 
SOCIAL 
CONCERNS 
African American (AA) and Hispanic (H) 
•Leadership Intern Programs• (LIP) Summer of 1998 
$2300.00 for 10 week program 
Learn leadership and community building 

Three elective Theology credits 
H 

Chicago San Diego South Bend (Lexington) (Dallas) (San Antonio) 
Sponsored by: 
AA 
Chicago Detroit (other areas) 

( ) possible areas for '98 
Black Alumni of ND Hispanic Alumni of ND 
Center for Social Concems Office of Multicultural Student Affairs 
Applications available at CSC and OMSA Deadline for applications: Feb. 13th 
There will be a information session on •Jan. 21st • at the Center for Social Concerns 6:00 -7:00 pm 
page 22 The Observer· SPORTS Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
ed very well. Everything was just clicking for them on


Women 
Saturday." 
continued from page 24 
son. 
In tlwir last meeting at Syracus1•, tlw Irish hand!'d thn <iranw~nwn ol'u• of tlwir worst dPii~ats of tlw s1~ason in the form of a 72-4!1 win. In that meeting, rurrent sophomore .luliP llnndorson canw nfl' the bPnch to scorn 12 points, going (>-ll from tlw liPid in 15 minutes of playing time. Latf•r that snason, the Irish swept tlw sPries by defeating SyracusP in llw Joyce Center 90­
B. 
Last wnPk, tlw Irish def'Pated West Virginia !Hl-7S lwfon) losing to Boston CollPgP 7S-76 to end an Pight-game winning streak. In tlw gamP against WVU, two key runs by thn Irish at the end of tlw first half and the start of tlw sPcond extPmlnd their lead to (,2-44. At BC, the Irish wPre down by Sf'VI\n in tlw second half lwf'orP re!JOunding and taking tlw IPad at tlw I I:4S mark in the second half. llowPver. a driving layup by the Eagl1~s· Cal Bouchard with five seconds remaining proved to be the chwiding factor of' the gamP.. 
"I thought it was a pretty good game," junior Sheila McMillen said about the loss. "Boston Collpge played tough and execut­

"They'rp, a great team." McGraw remarked about the Eagles. "They don't beat them­selves by making mistakes. They only had about 11 turnovers for tiH~ game. They're a very smart team as well." 
The Irish offense has recently been led by two players, senior guard Mollie Peirick and fresh­man center Huth Hiley. Against Boston College, Ptliriek led thrntl players in doubln figures with 26 points, topping her career high of 23 points which she set against West Virginia. Pnirick currently leads thn team in scoring, assists, and l'n·lP. throw pP-rcentage. 
Hiley was recently named Big East Hookie of the Week for the second straight week following her performanees this week. Against the Mountaineers, HilP-y posted a r.areer high of 27 points and 11 rebounds, shooting 11 of 14 from the field. Against the Eagles, she earned her fourth eonsecutive double-double with 1 R points and 11 rebounds. Riley also currently leads the confer­ence and ranks 12th in Division I players in blocks, averaging 2.44 a game. 
The tip off between the Irish and the Orangemen is set for 7 
p.m. tonight at the Manley Field House. 

The Observer/Joe Starl< 

The Irish are looking to rebound from a heartbreaking loss to the Eagles with a win over the much­
improved Orangemen. 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Valentin to get four-year deal 
BOSTON 
John Valentin and the Boston Hcd Sox am close to agreement on a four-yPar contract worth between $25 million and $28 million, a source familiar with the negotiations said Tuesday. 
The souret• said only a few dfltails not)dod to be wrapped up and an announcement may come WednPsday or Thursday. Vah•ntin. who made $3.8 mil­lion last year, asked for $7 mil­lion Monday in salary arbitra­tion and the Red Sox offered $5.5 million. 

Valentin's agent, Dick Moss, declined comment on the sta­tus of talks but was encour­aged by the progress. Red Sox spokesman 
Kevin Shea said only that the deal wa.<; not done. 
"They're pretty optimistic, but nothing's done yet," he said. 
The agreement comes one year after Valentin vowed to 
leave the Red Sox following a spring training dispute in which he was stripped of his shortstop's position despite promises that he would have a chance to compete with rookie phenom Nomar Garciaparra for the job. 
Garciaparra went on to win the AL Rookie of the Year award. Valentin played second base until he moved to third in July after Tim Naehring sus­tained a season-ending elbow injury. 
Hall Social, formal, SYR & JPW Luncheon Commissioners and Club Presidents: 


January 11 at b:oo p.m. Lafortune Montgomery Theatre 
sponsored by Cauring by Design, Risk Management and Safety and the Student Activities Office .. For more information, please call 631-7309 



Amway Corporation 
Amway Corporation recruiting Wed, February 11th 
Accounting Internship Positions. Amway's global operations provide stimulating opportunities for accounting students to experience a variety of areas including financial reporting, pricing, global operations analysis, management accounting & analysis, Activity Based Costing, cash manage­ment, international accounting and budget performance plan­ning. Amway's Financial Services division has the best available technology at their disposal. 
Position Requirements: 
All interested students must be eligible to work on a permanent full-time basis in the U.S., regardless of citizenship status, GPA a minimum of 3.0 on a 4.0 scale, and you must bring a copy of your most recent transcript to your interview. 
Overview of Company: 
Amway Corporation is one of the world's largest direct selling companies with operations in 80 countries and territories, and more then 14,000 employees worldwide. More than 3 million Amway distributors market Amway products in such fields as home care, hometech, personal care, health & fitness, commercial line products, and catalog shopping. Amway is a privately held company with estimated annual sales in excess of $7.0 billion. 
See Career & Placement Services for <m <tppointrncnt. 
&loucHE CoNSULTING GRoUP 
ALYST INTERNSHIP THIS SUMMER. 
STUDENTS MUST SUBMIT EJTHER A RESUME ""'·''""''"" DATASHEET TO CAREER AND PI..ACEMENT BY }ANUARY 27. INTERVIEWS WILL BE CONDUCTED MoNDAY, FEBRUARY 16. 
E & ToUCHE WILL BE HOSTING AN INFORMATION SES' N THURSDAY, jANUARY 22, FROM 8 TO lOPM IN THE o'fRE DAME RooM oN THE 3RD FLOOR oF LAFORTUNE. THIS SESSION TO LEARN MORE ABOUT THE FIRM SYSTEM ANALYST PROGRAM. IS BUSINESS CASUAL 

Wednesday, January 21, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 MEN ABOUT CAMPUS DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE 
-


Fi,\IAL L '/, .'1t!RTHA HAD Bf?oKE/'J Up 
TH£ !fEL4TIO!Y·sH!P-SHE I-lAD RUN 
OFF WITH -n/£ RAKE. 1'/!:"XJ. DOOR AND w·R 11 'J"t'N !-IE.R HUSB, J,VD A 
JOHN DEERE LE11ER. 

90N'T WORR~ ABOUT 
SUMO SW~t.l.OWINe 
AU. lr(Ai MAlL , " 
DILBERT 
u 

THE SALES FORCE WAS 
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT 0 
OFFERED A RETIREMENT 5 
OF IHE SALE5 FORCE ~ 
7-t':::+=-tiiiol 11 Hovels -.~.::-f::'+==-+=:....-111 12 Southpaws 13 Summer hrs. in D.C. 21 Send another way -=-+=+::+.±:-i 22 Prefix with state -:-t'=ilr~:+=;.J 26 Sounds of fluster -:-t-:-t:-:-f"~::+:::-1.• 28 Quito-to-La Paz 
dir. -=-+=+7+=-+:=:-1 29 Govt. watchdog ...r~-:-+::+::::-1 30 Senior citizen -.c::....JC...:..J..:._.L=..J 32 Sp. lady 
ELECTED TO TAKE TI-\E 
OFFER. 
56 Fly high 57 Onetime airline 58 -~lunch 59 Drink with Stilton 60 Michelangelo's 
work 61 Part of a wood 
joint 62 Common links 63 The supreme 
Supreme 64 Observatory observations 
DOWN 

1 Paged 2 Tear apart 3 Gemologist's 
concern 4 Round cheese 5 Take out 6 Flotation device 7 Looped rope 8 Momson and 
Braxton 9 Small bills 10 Handel's "-~ in Egypt" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
.:::+.::-f.::.+=~ 
33 Places for flight patterns 
35 Unenlightened 
36 Gloomy guy 37 Center starter 38 Pie-mode 
connection 39Wettime 42 Signals . , . 43 Jack1e s Sisler 

45 Site of the forges Annual subscriptions are available for the of Hephaestus, best of Sunday crosswords from the last in myth 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
SCOTT ADAMS 
I WONDER WHAT THEY KNOW TH.AT I DON'T 


46 Daniel Webster, 53 It can give you a 
e.g. lift 47 Hose 54 Kinder­49 Complete, garteners 
informally 55 Puccini's 50 "The Wild Swans 
"Flower-~" 
at Coole" poet 56 Place to unwind 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
BUYOUT PACKA.GE. Of ~ 
ii 

FIHY DOLLARS. ~ 
Aries:lt looks as if y1u and the crew are headed for Cutthroat Island today. Conditions aboarrl the ship are a'i bad as those at your destination. At lea,st you might have a fighting chance once you get out in the open.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She wa'i burn m 1957. 
Taurus:This may be theday to break out those Secret Weapons and use them as a last resort. The ele­ment of surprise works to your advantage. If you are dealing with a relationship, prepare for an outburst of pa'ision.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She was burn in 1957. 
Gemini:Today the Gemini Twins are like Thelma & Louise. cheerfully racing off to a date with disaster. This endeavor will be costly if you insist on pursuing it. You may not have the resources available for a sequel.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Cancer:Today you are an unlikely Hero in your ability to bring out the best in everyone. Family. friends. and co-workers crave your attention. Complete strangers ask you to come out and play.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Lco:You are The Fly on the wall today. a helpless witness to matters over which you have no control. Someone is acting out a deep. unre­solved scene from her childhood. Your wisdom would help if anyone would listen.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Virgo:lf the pieture is not quite perfect. you are able to mah a Quick Change by just tweaking a few details. You arc the master of micro­management today. All problems seem to be designed for you to solve.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She wa~ born in 1957. 
Libra:A much heralded Bla~t from 

..·.~~--~~.._.lnfc_~Somc'~i~a~~ln ~~!~~:~r~:; 
ptc•Je(:ts.•aredue Friday. Call Sue (1­more information. 
DytllaiiRic ln·b~rv'ie•wilrig Workshop will cover typically­avi()ral interviewing techniques, verbal and non~ 1behaviors, and interviewing eti~ . quette.,. The worll;sbQp,,presented _by Olivia Williams, assistant director of Career & Placement Services, will · · · e held'todaym DeBartolo Hall, rm. 116 from 4 to 5:30 
p.m....·•·• ··•··•·•··· ....

1$9$ Summerllntemship Job Fair will be sponsored by Career•& Pla<:eml'lnt Services on Th,u.rsday from 1:30 to 
. 4:;30p:tn. mt~e Sports_Heritage Hall.on the second level ofthe Joyce Center. Those interested should bring their resumes• .•. . 
Apo~tolic Voluntee.rs: .··Notre Dame graduate Kacy Kilner will be at the • Center for Social Concerns today recruiti}1gfor the Apostolic Volunteer Program from 1 to 6 p.m. An information session will be held at 7 p.m. in the Coffeehouse ofthe CSC. 

St. Mary's 
Garlic Tortellini 
MacaroniSouth Egg Salad Turkey GriUSandwich Chicken, Bean Tostada 
qheeseburger Pie Chili Che~se Macaroni French Dip. ~anqwich 
North 
Grilled Ham Steak Chicken Gumbo · 
·if Sandwich Grilled· Salmon Fillet Cheese Lasagna 



The Obsrever: laking for a few god copy editers . 
the Past turns out to be an old event or situation that everyone would rather forget. Someone is trying to exploit an ordinary experience. Do not trust strangers today.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Scorpio:The Scorpio Moon is keep­ing you at home (yours or someone else's) for The Long Kiss Goodnight. You are at the highest point of your cycle. You radiate a power that makes you irresistahle. Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Sagittarius:As The Accidental Tourist, you are the prisoner of fate. passenger of the winds that idly toss you around. You may claim helpless­ness. but you seem to land on your feet somehow. Your situation may not be as random as you think.Celebrity hirthday is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Capricorn:Everything is going so well today that you can't help being a little Speechless. Friends and a~soci­ates come instantly to your aid on important matters. Your future looks bright at the moment.Celebrity birth­day is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Aquarius:Just because the judge has dedared a Mistrial over a techni­cality does not mean that the basir. problem ha~ gone away. The sudden absence of structure leaves you dis­oriented. Go home and wait for things to improve.Celebrity birthday is Genna Davis. She was born in 1957. 
Pisces:You are dragged out to sea in a Riptide of deep passions and restless ecstasy. Dreams break through the thin membrane of your imagination and interact with the waking world. You are what you believe today.Celebrity birthday is Geena Davis. She was born in 1957. 
.. 
-

CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 1 With 6-Across. attacked verbally 6 See 1-Across 10 Key 14 Circumvent 15 Twelve. half of the time 16 Cast off 17 Ear-related 18 Zilch. so to speak 19 White-water carrier 20 Like some Halloween costumes 23 Erhard's claim to fame 24.. Tu" (70's hit) 
1J 
E
·;: 
::J 
;: 
3: 
3: 
25 Knot again 27 Charlotte russe, 
for one 30 More slick 31 Kind of support 34 Big section in a 
dictionary 35 "The Fabulous Baker Boys" actor 38 Journal 
publisher 40 Starts to cry 41 Venue 44 One of the 
Apostles 48 Where a bangle 
may dangle 49 Hunt and peck 51 Have a go at 52 Golden 
parachute. e.g. 

-




SPORTS 
page 24 Wednesday, January 21, 1998 
• MEN'S BASKETBAll 

Irish look to put the squeeze on the Orangemen 
By BRIAN REINTHALER A'sisram Sports Editor 
Tlw Orang1~mnn of Syracuse hit tlw JoyrP CPntnr tonight, giv­ing NotrP Damn another oppor­tunity to impress a national audiPncP by beating a ranked conference opponent. 
Tlw Irish are eoming oil' a very disappointing loss to Seton !tall. whir.h brought to thn foreground Notre Dame's chronic lack of 

.. 
-
offensive options and tainted a two-game road trip that could have been a legitimate turning point for the program. 
"It's kind offrustrating at times," explained shooting guard Antoni Wyche. "We snem to have some of our worst games at the most inopportune times." 
After knocking ofl' then No. 20 West Virginia on a last-second jumper by sophomore Keith Friel. the Irish stranded senior 

The Irish will look for more offensive production from Antoni Wyche. 
• WOMEN's BASKETBAll 


Syracuse presents challenge for Irish 
By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame women's bas­kntball team will face a double challenge tonight when they 
travel  eastward  to  face  the  
Syracuse Orangmnnn.  Not only  
will  tlw  Irish  



play. rebound fmm a 
have to 

In its only r.losn loss to 
game of the Boston Collegn 
w e e k , on the road. but 
Syracuse tlwy will have 
earned a 99-93 to do it against 
overtime win a tnam in the 
at West midst of one of 
Virginia on tlwir best sea­
Saturday. The sons in recent 
Orangemen history. 
outscored the "Syracuse is a 
home team, good team. 
17-11 in the Tlwy'm battling '--------------..... o v e r t i m e . for first place in their division, Junior Annetta Davis scored a and this game's really important team-high 23 points off the to tlwm." head coach Muffct b!meh to lead five players in Mc(;raw n~marked. "They think double figures. Paula Moore thny can win this game, aft1~r BC recorded the game's only dou­beat us, I think evnryone in thn ble-double with 11 points and leagtw thinks we're heatable." 11 rebounds. 
Syracuse has already improved on last season's 6-21 record going 10-6 heading into tonight's contest. After riding a seven-game winning streak to start the season, Syracuse dropped live straight contests bofore rebounding in the brunt 
of conference 

l?at Garrity on Saturday, as the forward dropped in 37 of Notre Dame's 58 points in a losing effort. 
Garrity, who will likely be hon­ored by the Big East with its Player of the Week award, has been as hot as any player in the country lately. He now leads the conference in scoring (24.1 points per game) by a margin of almost two points. 
However. John MacLeod's squad is going to have to find some alternative firepower if they hope to compete in the Big East Six. Their 3-4 conference record currently places them in fifth place in the division, with only Boston College trailing at 2­5. 
"I know that I'm capable of scoring," Wyche said in response to a question about who will be called on to add some offense for the Irish. "[Against Seton Hall). we were settling for jump shots and getting no penetration. Some one has got to step up." 
Syracuse enters this evening's battle with a record of 5-1 in eonference play and the lead in the Big East 7. Their 15-2 over­all mark has earned them enough votes for a No. 15 rank­ing in both the Associated Press and the USA Today/ESPN polls. 
The Orangemen are led in seoring by Todd Burgan and Hyan Blackwell who are rippling the chords for 16.9 and 14.4 points a game, respectively. Blackwell also finds himself among the top live rebounders in the conference with 8. 7 
see IRISH I page 21 


Julie Henderson played a key role in last year's blowout win against Syracuse. The sophomore hopes to 
have another outstanding performance on the road. 
The Orangemen are Jed by on Syracuse's career assist list senior guard Raquel Nurse, who with 4 75 and needs 55 to scored 12 in the win against the become the all-time leader. Mountaineers. Nurse leads the Notre Dame leads the series team in assists, averaging 5.1 a against the Orangemen 7-1 and game, while ranking second in has won six straight games. The steals with 29. Nurse is second only loss the Irish have sull'ered at the hands of Syracuse was a 63-56 defeat at the Manley Field House on Feb. 4, 19R9. Unlike most conference opponents, this will be the only meeting between the two teams this sea-
see WOMEN I page 22 


Men's Basketball 

Hockey 
vs. Syracuse, 

at Bowling Green 

• Tyson to join WWF 
Today, 9 p.m. 

Jan. 24, 7 p.m. 
see page 20 
Women's Basketball 

Swimming and Diving 
• Elway hopes fourth time is a charm 
at Syracuse, 

vs. Depauw
sc 
see page 19
Today, 7 p.m. 

Jan. 30, 7:30 p.m. 




