
• Music is alive and well at Notre Dame. 
• Some students from Saint Mary's College are liv­
Thursday
Find out more about the University's very 
ing with ex-convicts as part of a volunteer program 
own symphony. 
and shared their experiences. 
OCTOBER29,
Scene· 14 
News·3 
1998 
THE 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 43 

Four Notre Dame students traveled to the Dominican Republic to assist in relief efforts in the country devastated by Hurricane Georges. The students raised the money to travel to the country in only three weeks. 


Reaching Out to Help 
Students spent 
fall break in the Dominican Republic 
By BRIDGET O'CONNOR 
A."<><:ialr News Editor 
When four Notre Dame 
students first heard about the possibility of traveling to the Dominican Hepublie for fall break. they could hardly have predicted what an incredible experience it would turn out to be. 
Matthew Brummer. Diana Buran, Jamiko Hose and Luisa Heredia spent their break in Santo Domingo where they worked under the auspices of a local healthcare agency and with workers from the International Red Cross. 
In late September, Hurricane Georges pum­meled the Caribbean with winds in excess of 110 mph, killing 267 people and leaving over 100,000 homeless. Martin Murphy, associate professor of anthropology at Notre Dame and director of Notre Dame Caribbean Studies alerted the Center for Social Concerns of the situ­ation and suggested that students make the trip to assist in relief efforts. 
"I had not made any plans for break other than going home, and was not even sure if I wanted to go," said Rose. "However, I took it upon myself to coor­dinate the project because I 
see VOLUNTEER I page 4 
WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 


Bradley: U.S. people search for meaning 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Wrirer 
The American people's longing to find meaning in society directly affpcts the nation's public and private sectors, according to former senator Bill Bradley. 
"Our public life has become loss hos­pitable to living out our values," said Bradley in a speech Wednesday night. "Today there is no Lincoln. or Wilson, or FDH. Maybe the times don't allow s111~h people to surface." 
Bradley explained how i\merieans have sought deeper meanings in life through traditional religious organizations and both the publk and private sectors. Each of these areas, said Bradley, has failed to satisfy Americans' longing for fulfillnwnt, 
Bradley linked the dedinn in public offi­cials' image as inspirational role models to the divisions among what lw termed capitalist marketeers and the New Left. Each side, said Bradley, presents a view that makes effective government difficult. 
"The New Loft believes ... that i\merica is so rent ... that to engage in polities is an exercise in futility," he said. 
He likewise criticized capitalist marke­teers who sec government as a constraint on their freedom. 
The lack of meaning within the public sector has also affected the private see­tor, said Bradley. lie noted that popular commercials and best-soiling books reflect Americans' search for meaning. 
"Books can establish a landscape and reveal our absorption with the spiritual today," Bradley said, pointing specifically to the popular "Chicken Soup for the Soul" series. 
Bradley also cited statistics indicating that at least 80 perc1~nt of Americans belong to some type of religious eongre­
see BRADLEY I page 6 


Study indicates LSAT may be racially biased 
By COLLEEN McCARTHY 
A."i;ranr News Editor 
Wlwn four students who grad­uated from tlw same elite col­lng«~s with tlw same grade point avPrag1~s sit down to take the l.aw School i\dmission Test (I Si\T), one might assume their scorns on the LS/\T would be similar. 
Now, entnr the race factor. 
"Students who have achieved tlw same success at. the same collego should tlworetically oarn approximately the same scores on the LS/\T," said David White, dirnctor of Testing for the l'ublie. "Unfortunately, tho wsults of this study demonstrate that this is far from true." 
This recent study by Testing for the Public has shown that race impacts scores of students like those mentioned above when taking the LSAT. 
"Students from five elite col­legos-Harvard, Yale, Stanford, UC Borkeley and UCL!\ -earn different scores on the Law School i\dmission Test if they are from dill'erent racial groups, even when they are matched only with students with the same grades from the same col­lege," said White. 
White based his study on all applicants from those five col­leges applying to Boalt llall School of Law at UC Berkeley between 19% and 1998. 
The difference in the scores is dramatic. The /\sian students scored three points lower, the Latino students scored six points lower and the i\frican American students scored nine points lower than white students, according to the study. 
Ir White's findings are accu­rate, they could give pause to minority students who have the same academic credentials as their white peers, but who possi­bly scornd lower on the LSAT. 
White said he performed the study in part to reassure top minority students that any lower-than-expected LS/\T scores might not be isolated incidents, and to alert law school admissions officers pur­suing the goal of a diverse stu­dent body. 
"Comparing LS/\T scores with­out recognizing the significant average gap between groups appears to be fair, but actually penalizes the very minority group students who have already demonstrated their aca­demic skills in top colleges," said White. 
For minority students at Notre Dame, scoring low on the LSAT hasn't been a concern brought 
see LSAT I page 4 



-------~ 
page 2 
• INSIDE COlUMN 
Getting 
Serviced 
Ah, summer in Florida. The beach. the sun; a time when a young man's fancy turns to melanoma. I had the day off from work, and no plans, when my Volvo sud­
denly began flashing  
the dashboard "ser- Finn Pressly  
vice" light. Ordinarily I  News Writer  
ignore the service  

light, but the last time I did, all four of my 
tires simultaneously went flat. 
I think the service light is all a big hoax anyway. I get the impression that all the people at the dealership sit around a big remote-control system and say, "Hey, I hear that Pressly kid is in danger of having fun today! Let's turn on his service light!" They all laugh and go back to typing those fake testimonial letters that are plastered all over the waiting room. 
Needless to say, I drove out to the dealer­ship, where I was informed that my oil needed changing. "Is that all?" I asked. The service representatives went into a huddle, and then replied, "No. We may find other things to fix. It should only take forty-five minutes." They could tell I didn't trust them, so they quickly added, "And we'll wash your car, too." That sounded good enough for me, since my car was still carrying dust from the Mount St. Helens eruption. 
They hustled me into the waiting room, gave me some Volvo propaganda to read, and then subsequently disappeared. (I sus­pect they fled the country). After three hours, there was still no sign of my car. I tried Plan A: coughing loudly. I'm not sure what this was going to accomplish, but it seemed logical at the time. They countered this by flooding the waiting room with screaming gypsy children, who amused themselves by running in concentric cir­cles, chanting the lyrics to "Happy Birthday to You." My next plan was slightly more devious: the fake dentist appointment. Using the courtesy phone, I dialed some random numbers and loudly announced, "Hello, Dr. Smith! It looks like I'll be late for my very important dental appoint­ment!" A service representative appeared out of nowhere and informed me that if I wanted my call to go through, I would have to dial more than five numbers. Curses. Foiled again. 
Finally, four hours after I arrived, I was told that my car was ready. They also added that they had taken the liberty of fix­ing expensive things that I had never heard of. Judging by the bill, it would have been cheaper to abandon my car and hire the cast of "One Day at a Time" to pull me around town in a rickshaw. Even more disturbing was the fact that my car was even dirtier than it was when I brought it in. One of the mechanics even went so far as to write "wash me" across the wind­shield. There were also ticket stubs from Monkey Jungle scattered around the front seat. In fact, I wasn't even sure if it was my car or not. I've learned my lesson, though. Next time I need to get my oil changed, I think I'll save myself a lot of time, money, and effort and just buy a new car. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
• Tontw's STAFF  
News  Scene  
Colleen McCarthy  Loubel Cruz  
Tom Enright  Graphics  
Maggy Tinucci  Cristin Manary  
Sports  Production  
Kati Miller  M. Shannon Ryan  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Eddie Llull  Monica Garza  

The Observer (USPS S99 2-4000) is published Monday rhrough Friday excepr during exam and vacation periods. The Ob.!>erver is a member of rhe Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Thursday, October 29, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 




utside the Dome 
Compiled from UWire reports 
Michigan State University examines use of date rape drugs 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. 
like a walking alcohol blackout." 
Despite having no reported inci­She said roofies and GHB can cause dents of date rapes due to drug use short-term memory loss in addition to on campus, Michigan State the blackouts, so rapes involving University's Interfraternity Council these drugs are hard to prove. and Panhellenic Council called a Kelli Milliken, a senior at MSU and meeting last week to discuss the use the Panhel president, said the meet­of Rohypnol and Gamma Hydroxy ing was called to talk about things Butyrate, commonly referred to as that were happening on campus. "date-rape drugs" "The meeting was to inform all the 
Rohypnol, also known as "roofies" as substitutes for heroin and chapter members what types of drugs and "rope," comes mainly in the form cocaine," Heuser said. State law are out there, like roofies and GHB, of small tablets that are tasteless, charges possession of roofies as a and educate them about what the odorless and colorless when dissolved felony. side effects are and how to notice it," ina drink. "They are used quite a lot for set­Milliken said. 
GHB can be ingested in liquid or pill ting up women for rape," she said. She said the meeting was prompted form, said Sarah Heuser, training and If roofies or GHB is slipped into an by reports of sexual assaults connect­education coordinator of the unsuspecting person's drink, they can ed with the drugs, coupled with the University's Sexual Assault take affect in as little as 20 minutes recent death of LSA first-year student Prevention and Awareness Center. and remain in the system for up to 12 Courtney Cantor. She said other names for GHB are liq­hours. GHB can cause comas or even Milliken said one objective of the uid ecstasy and scoop. be lethal. meeting was "to make sure the cam­
The drugs are illegal in the United "A person only has to take a few pus and the rest of the community is States and "they are commonly used sips to be affected," Heuser said. "It's informed." 
• IOWA STATE UNIVERSITY 

School considers cola contract 
AMES, Iowa 
A single-beverage cola contract for Iowa State is currently being considered by the University. A final decision will be made by late fall or early winter, said Warren Madden, vice president for Business and Finance. A single-beverage con­tract is being explored by the University Purchasing Department and operators of the ISU facilities, in conjunc­tion with administration and faculty. Cola companies being considered for the single-beverage contract include Coca­Cola, Pepsi and Royal Crown. The single-beverage contract would last about five to 10 years, Madden said. "So far, Coca-Cola has provided the best bid in the four-single con­tracts by offering services in maintaining and providing new vending machines, including some with an Iowa State card slot," Madden said. "This is another reason why Coca-Cola is the predominant beverage offered on campus." Madden said the two dominate cola companies currently in the mar­ket are Pepsi and Coca-Cola. 
• UNIVERSiTY OF PENNSYLVANIA 

Biochemist's killer sentenced 
PHILADELPHIA, Penn. 
Following a contentious debate about the semantics of the 
jury's verdict, a judge sentenced Eugene "Sultan" Harrison 
to seven lo 14 years in jail for his role in the 1996 slaying of 
University biochemist Vladimir Sled and the robbery of a 
truck driver the same day. Harrison, 34, one of three people 
charged with the murder, was convicted in May of two 
counts of robbery and one count of conspiracy to commit 
robbery. He was acquitted of all charges directly stemming 
from the stabbing death of Sled, including murder. Bridgette 
Black, 27, who pleaded guilty to actually stabbing Sled, was 
sentenced in July to five to 12 years in prison. Yvette 
Stewart, 31, was convicted in May of third-degree murder 
and two robbery charges. She was sentenced last week to 
15 to 30 years in jail. The 38-year-old Sled and his fiancee 
were walking Halloween night when Harrison tried to take 
Hagerhall's purse. Sled struggled with him, and Black · emerged from the getaway car and stabbed him. 
• IJNIVERS!TY OF MASSACHUSETTS 
Ticket availability raises questions 
AMHERST, Mass. 
The reason tickets were not available to students for 
October 13's gubernatorial debate at the Mullins Center 
might not be solely due to the small size of the room. 
According to Marc ·Kenen of Student Center for 
Educational Hesearch and Advocacy (SCERA), the 
Springfield Media Consortium (co-sponsor of the event) and 
representatives of both campaign parties, said they did not 
want students at the debate. Konen said at last week's 
Student Government Association Senate meeting that an 
anonymous source from the Center for Public Policy, cam­
pus co-sponsor of the event, told him in confidence why the 
original 30-50 tickets available to students, were revoked. 
"There is one piece of information that was not publicly as 
clear. Someone from the Center for Public Policy told me 
privately that both campaigns, as well as the media spon­
sors, were adamant they did not want students not associ­
ated with the campaigns there," Kenen said. 
• TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY Glenn to conduct experiment 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas 
When Sen. John Glenn returns to space Thursday he will conduct cancer chemotherapy experiments in conjunction with Texas A&M's College of Veterinary Medicine. Dawn Boothe, an associate professor in the College of Veterinary Medicine, said Glenn will begin work on the experiments shortly after he begins the nine-day flight. "Glenn will begin to conduct these experiments within the first 24 hours of orbit," Boothe said. "lie will perform six experiments. Each will last approximately two hours." During the experiments, Glenn will formulate microspheres, tiny hollow bubbles made of oil and water-like substances. The microsphems are only formed in zero-gravity conditions but remain intaet once formed. At Texas A&M, researchers will inject drugs into these microspheres and place them directly into a can­cerous tumor. This procedure, allows researchers to increase the dosage of drugs while decreasing the side ell'ects. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER • NATIONAL VVEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather"'forecast for daytime conditions. and high temperatures 
H  L  
I Thursday  c::=:1 65  49  
Friday  c::=:1 66 55  
Saturday  ~63  42  
Sunday  ~60  41  

Mo~d!!Y . />~ 58 41 
.~}"'\~···' '"'j,.. ~.;· 

The AccuWeather® forecast for noon. Thrusday, Oct. 29 
aos-D 
FRONTS: 

....,.......... ........... ~ 
© 1998 AccuWeather, Inc. COLO WARM STATIONARY 
PttJuure: 
.

® (1) D D ' c:::J-D . D EJ. 0 ~~) ~1@1#, 
High Low Showers Rain T-storms Flurries Snow Ice Sunny Pl. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Associated Pre$S 
Atlanta  80  54  Dallas  83  66  Miami  84  72  
Baltimore  64  52  Denver  59  37  New York  60  51  
q,~,Qpc@Q!}  ~ u  Baton Rouge 82 Chicago 65  61 46  Honolulu Indianapolis  86 70  74 49  Phoenix Reno  82 54  58 32  
Showers  T·storms Rain  Flurries  Snow  Ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  Columbus  69  48  Los Angeles 70  56  St. Louis  74  60  
V1a Associated Press GraDhicsNet  


----~ -~­

Thursday, October 29, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~--------------­



Human rights dismal in Colombia 
By NORA KULWICKI 
New' Writ<·r 
War. kidnapping and homi­c-idns art~ at tl11dr highest in history and an~ violating tlw human rights of tlw Colombian pnopiP, said activist Adriana ()uinorws during hPr l1~cturn on thn struggln for human rights and JWac!L 
l)uinorws is a I'!Htcn Studios studPnt at Notre Damn and a nativP of Colombia. She has also work1~d for tlw Colombian govn rn nw n t 's p rograrn. Tlw lligh Commission for l'nace. 
"Kidnapping is at its worst and homicidn ratns an~ the higlwst in Colombian history," said l)uinorws. dnseribing thn t'onf"lit't that is now raging tlwrn. "All armnd actors an~ violating human rights." 
Tlwsn arnwd actors indudn thP gtwrrilla. para-military and army organizations that inrtuPrH·n llw drug trafTicking in thP t'ountry. Quinorws said that tl11• para-military acts as a privat.P army for thn drug tral'­fit'kl•rs. 
ConsidPring tlw conllids that Pvolvn from tlw powm·l'ul inllu­Pilt'P of thrnn diiTnrnnt military groups and thn aftPrmath ol' a 
"Your Notre Dame Ho!ipitality Headquarter§" 
PUBLIC WELCOME Open Fridays 3:00pm -1 0:30pm Saturday 9:00am -7:00pm 

It Live "Irish" Band 
Fri. 4:00pm -1 0:30pm • Sat. 1O:OOam -Kickoff II Fully Enclosed Tent It Grilled Burgers, Brats, or Sandwiches It Cold Beverages & Spirits It 60" Screen TVs It Notre Dame Souvenirs It Hot Roasted Almonds 

orris rffnn 
on the campus ofNotre Dame 
Phone (i!19) 631-i!DOO 
40-ynar war, thn pnople of Columbia want changn, said Quinorws. 
"Wn have snen governments corning and going but nothing ehanging," she said. 
Quinones described her own experi1mce with the Colombian war. She said that it did not touch her much. at first, because she lived in the city. 
Indian groups are suffering from a 

'WE [COLOMBIANS] NEED TO 
BUILD A NATIONAL IDENTITY 
"cycle of violence [THAT) VALUES HUMAN LIFE ••• AND and are losing most THINK ABOUT WHAT THE DIGNITY OF of the identities that 
arc left." 

COLOMBIA WILL BE.' Quinones offered suggestions for how to solve the drug 
ADJUAN!I Ql!INONHS problem that per-NomE DAME PH!ICE STUDIES STUDENT petuates this con­
"Ptwple in the cities are not lexperienringl it, but peasants are," shn said. "I decided to beeome an insid1~r Iin the gov­nrnnwntl." 
And through this inside activism she worked for peace as a memher of the lligh 
Commission. The connection between Columbia's problems and the 
U.S. mostly involve the drug trafficking, according to Quinones. 
"U.S. policy has been oppressive," said Quinones, "many peasants don't have 
any other  means of subsis­ 
tence."  
However, because  

of a "cocaine cul­ture" many native 
llict between sub­
sistence and horror. 
"(Colombians! need to go back to their roots and identity. These roots have eroded because of the length of the war. We need to build a national identity [that] values human life ... and think about what the dignity of Colombia will be," she said. 
Quinones also said that writ­ing letters to the government could hnlp but that there needs to be "pressure from above and below." from the people and those in power, before change will ensue. 
"We need to overcome the reign of terror," she said. 
The talk was organized by the Human Hights C.O.L.T., a collaborative leadership team involving students and faculty, as part of their celebration of the fiftieth anniversary of the United Nations Declaration of Human llights. 
The Observer always needs writers. Call us at 631-5323 if you are interested. 



IN CHARGE 
tion entrepreneur, 51 provides the training 
Graduate Studies in Information 
www.si.umich.edu 
INFORMATION 
Students learning from ex-criminals 
By SARAH MAGNESS about being around pHople News Writer who had been in jail," Lawrence said. "But these 
College students and former people arH not threatening." criminals sitting at the same Personal experiences have dinner table offers a range of influenced tho volunteers in conversation that could provo their decisions to continue insightful. their work at Disma...:; Houso. 
"f forget that some people "One of the Saint Mary's vol­don't have the luxury of going unteers asked if we could have to college," said Saint Mary's a tour ol' the housH," College senior Brooke Lawrence said. "One of' the Lawrence. "It puts things in residents, John. took us on a perspective for me." tour and we were able to see 
Lawrence and other Saint the rooms they woro living in. Mary's students join in this It was good to see a complete experience every two woeks house. not just a dining room when they go to Dismas of and kitchen." Michiana, Inc. In an effort to make Dismas 
Dismas is more than a House "a home away from halfway house. It is alf envi­home," Kearns said some ronment structured with rules rules reflect those often found and low ront, but with a sense in any other home. "Hesidents of community reinforced by have duties and they have interaction with college stu­weekly meotings," Kearns 
donts. 
Not only can a few students 'IFORGET THAT SOME PEOPLE live at 
DON'T HAVE THE LUXURY OF 
Dismas 
GOING TO COLLEGE ••• IT PUTS
House, but 300 stu· THINGS IN PERSPECTIVE FOR ME.' dents vol­unteer their time BROOKE' LAWRE'NCB there. 
SAINT MAIH''S COUHG'B STUDENT 
"About four stu· dents go on a Wednesday or Thursday ronment. 
night to cook dinner," "Everyone stands around Lawrence said. "And after the table and holds hands cooking dinner, we eat with while one person says a din­the residents." ner prayer," Lawrence said. 
Saint Mary's graduate Ann "Then they go around the Kearns is the open house table and each person says his chairperson for Dismas House. or her name." She believes that the situation Junior Ashley Dickerson there is benefichil for both stu­said that environment fosters dents and ex-offenders. comfortable and educational 
"Students are entering a dif· relationships between resi: ft~rent kind of world when thoy dents and volunteers. leave home and ex-offenders "They [the offenders] are are re•entering sodety," she just like everyone else," she said. said. "After spending time 
Kearns pointed out that the with them. I have gotten to application process for know them and I can ask entrance into Dismas House is them questions and they ask rigorous. me questions. The next time I 
"It is for people who arc go back Wt~ continue our con­committed to getting their versations." IJves together," she said. "It is Students like Kimberly a commitment for students as Jakob said spending time at well." Dismas House provides an 
Apprehension is normal for opportunity to learn valuable Dismas House's student volun­lessons outside the class•·oom. teers. "I am sharing experillnCtls 
"The first time I went to with people of other lifestyles," Dismas I was apprehensive said Jakob, a volunteer there. 
you'll need to take a leading role in the age of knowledge. 
In our dynamic two-year master's program, students from diverse academic h;Jcl·grounds -humanities, computers, math and social sciences-gain direct 
access to our world-class faculty and facilities. Our innovative doc­toral program prepares you for a re­
search career at the leading edge of this emerging discipline. 
There's a whole new world of information out there. Someone's got to take charge of it. 
said. 
F o r h o r part, Law­renee s a i d s h e appre­ciates t h e intima­cy of t h e en vi-



Volunteer 
continued from page 1 

had a great interest to go and help with the great need the country faced." 
In the three weeks between learning of the opportunity and fall break, the group organized themselves and raised the money necessary to make the trip. 
"A number of people and organizations at Notre Dame and from the South Bend com­munity demonstrated, once again, their spirit of giving and willingness to organize forces on a short notice," Martin said. "Through their efforts as much as ten thousand dollars in medi­cines and medical supplies, along with a significant cash contribution for additional med­icines and building supplies, were made. 
"The students that participat­ed in this ad hoc relief effort, along with all those people behind the scenes. did an heroic job." 
"When we got there we were expecting to do hurricane relief work," said Buran. 
The students were working with other volunteers doing much needed work such as unloading trucks, but it seemed that their initial work was most­ly behind the scenes. 
"We wanted to do something where we could see the effects of our work," she continued. 
The students found out about a La Asociacion Mutual de Los Trabajadores de Los Bateyes (AMUTRABA). The group works directly with "bateyes," the squatter villagers on the sugar plantations. Most of these vil­lagers are Haitian immigrants who work in the Dominican Republic on a migrant basis for the seven months of the harvest. During this time, they basically work for food which amounts to one meal per day. 
Because they are not citizens of the Dominican Republic, they receive no government assis­tance, according to Brummer. 
"[The Haitians] have no rights, no nationality, no identi­ty ... what little they had [before the hurricane] is now gone," he said. 
"They're pretty much slaves," said Buran. "They got hit hard with the hurricane but they get hit hard every day with life," she said. "Hurricane or no hur­ricane, they're living in desper­ate situations." 
The group that the students worked with focus their efforts on the Haitians on an ongoing basis, not just in the wake of disasters such as Hurricane Georges. 
Efforts concentrated on restoring housing by providing tin roofing and nails -a pre­cious commodity -distributing thousands of dollars worth of medication such as anti-bacteri­al treatments, antibiotics and donating the money to purchase treatments for diarrhea and parasites. The supplies would have taken months longer to reach the people had they arrived through ordinary meth­ods. 
For Buran, one of the most difficult parts of the week was leaving the villages at the end of the day. Of the approximately 50 families in a village, the stu­dents were able to help seven to nine per day. 
"We got in the car and left and we had this wonderful home we could come back to," she said. But when villagers asked them if they would be back, it was unlikely and it was difficult to leave knowing there still remained so much to be done. 
Brummer believes that the trip was "very much a learning experience" and opened his eyes to "how much people are exploited in some parts of the world." He cautioned that there is still a lot to be done and many more people need help. "People hear there was a hurricane and send money, and that's good ... but you can't stop with that, its like there's a hurricane every day in these places... we need to set up a permanent establishment to help these peo­ple," Brummer said. 
"The most important aspect that I learned was how to respond to people in need, espe­cially a natural disaster," said Rose. I also learned the signifi­cance of giving." The most important aspect of giving is to give what is significant to you, not the "leftovers" that many are tempted to offer at a time of crisis. 
"We hope that this begins a network of support for the peo­ple that we helped. We did not change anyone's life while we were down there, but we hope that we can use what we learned to change someone's life now that we are back here," said Rose. 
Although definite plans for how efforts to continue to assist the bateyes have not yet been set, Buran was sure that fundraising and awareness would be among their prime objectives. Another trip to the Dominican Republic is a possi­bility for interested students. 
Individuals interested in mak­ing donations can do so by sending them to the Center for Social Concerns, and marking them for the Dominican Republic. 



LSAT 
continued from page 1 
to her by students, said Iris Outlaw, director of the Office of Multicultural Student Affairs. 
At Notre Dame's Law School, white students made up 81 per­cent of the 1997-98 enrollment figures. However, Father James McDonald, assistant dean of the Notre Dame Law School, said the law school does not have target percentages they seek from any group of society when making admission decisions. 
"We believe, however, that a diverse student body adds to the quality of legal education. since the law both shapes and reflects social and political issues alive at any one moment in history," McDonald said. 
For most schools, the LSAT is important. McDonald said. However. Notre Dame's law school takes what he called a "full-file review" in making its admission decisions. reading each file at least two times. 
"We use the LSAT as one indi­cator of success of first-year law school, although as any admis­sion professional will indicate to you, success in law school does not work out to mathematical precision," McDonald said. "Correlation studies are done by the Law Schools Admissions 
What do a sailor, 
an old man, a girl, & pizza have in 
common? 

CURIOUS? 
Council and these do reveal that the LSAT is a good indicator of success in law school -but not the only one. Often review of an academic transcript can better predict success." 
Although the Notre Dame Law School has no position on whether the LSAT is racially biased. the law school does "keep abreast of the studies about the predictability of the LSAT," McDonald said. 
"I am sure that some individu­als here may have personal judg­ments based on their reading and understanding of the data. but as far as I know there is not consensus either in the profes­sional community or among those who look closely at these things, and men and women of every social group can come in good faith to different conclu­sions about it," McDonald said. 
The "full-file review" also ensures that the LSAT is not the key to admission to Notre Dame's law school. Looking at White's study. this approach is a safe one. 
"When any member of our committee reads a file, he or she is aware that the strength of a candidate cannot be judged sole­ly on one test score -and that is why we eomb the personal state­ments, letters of recommenda­tion and the entire application file so many times," McDonald said. 


Come to the Booz· Allen & Hamilton Information session on Monday, November 2, 1998 at 6PM in the Alumni Room at the Morris Inn to find out the answer. Pizza and soda will be provided. 
Boo~-Al~en & Hamilton provides management and technology consulting ~ervtces ~n the areas of program management, systems engineering and mformatiOn technology. Since 1914, Booz-Allen & Hamilton's 7,1 00-+ employees have made a unique and lasting impression on the ~orld's most progressive companies and government agencies as a leading professional services firm. Visit our website: http://www.bah.com to learn more about 
Bom.-AIIen & Hamilton. 


Thursday, Ocrober 29, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Boy dies from deodorant overdose 
MANCil ESTEH. England 
A 16-yoar-old boy obsnssml with smelling nirP died after months of repeatedly spraying his nntiro body with dnodorant, a coroner ruled Wndnnsday . .Jonathan Capowell had 10 limns tlw IPlhal dosag11 of' propane and butane in his blood whon lw sufl'nrnd a heart attack and diPd .July 29, coronPr Barrie Williams said. It is bnli11vecl tlw fumes built up in his body following months of' "high" deodorant usP, Williams said. "Jiis pPrstmal hygifme led him to usn mon1 than was normal in a con­firwd spa('(\ which limits vnntilation," said the I'Ororwr. who recordnd thP death as acddnn­tal. .Jonathan's f'athPr, Keith CapPwell. said his son would cover his nnlin1 body with deodor­ant at lnast twice a day. "When we told him hn was using too much, ho said ho just wanted to snwll good," CapPwnll said. 
Clinton expresses confidence in Israeli peace 
WASHINGTON 
Despite Israeli-Palestinian quarrels over thPir land-for-sPcurity accord, Prosident Clinton on WtHlnesday prPdicted lsraol would approVP tlw doal if' the Palestinians carry out tlwir plPdge to take action against terrorism. "f'pacP is a difficult business in the Middle l·:ast." Clinton said during a Hoso Garden news t'onf'nrPnr.n. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin NPLanyahu has threatfmed to delay submitting Llw agn•nnwnl he rnachml with YassPr Arafat to his Cabirwt until tlw Palestinians submit thPir sncurity plan. Palestinians say Nntanyahu is looking fi>r an excuse to placate hard-linf' nwrnbm·s of his government who am against Llw agrtHHnnnt. "I bnlinve that if we l'ornplPLP Llw sncurity arrangements that were agreed to al Wyt1, that the lsranli governrmmt will approVP this and honor thnir commitment and will go forward," Clinton said. 
Residents suspicious after bomb scare 
CONCOHD. N.fl. 
l'olicn on Wndnnsday urgPd city msi(hmts to look out for anyone acting unusual after bombs WPrn diseovnred in two libraries in the lwart of downtown. The two bombs were dis­rowrnd af'tnr a warning lettnr snnt Tunsday to tlw Statnhousn. Onn of' the pipe bombs partial­ly nxplodt1d, causing a 11ro at the Concord Public Library, and a sncond bomb was found rwarby on stnps outside the state library, arross tlw strnnt from tlw Statehousn. "It's rnasonable to conclude that thorn is a danger­ous 1wrson out there and all of' us should be on guard," Altonwy General Philip Mr:l.aughlin said Wndnesday. "Thnre is some­body out thern who is disturbed," Concord policv ( :hinl' William llalaey said. 
Market Watch: 10/29 Dow 
AMEX: 
634.52

}ONES 
+2.14 Up: Nasdaq:

8371.97 
17j7.35 1271 
+19.72 NYSE: 

Down:
527.65 
1323
·0.12 S&P 500: !068.09 

Composite
+2.75 

Volume: 
+5.93 764,300,000 
VOLUME LEADERS 

I ll~ll' ~~~ I U b;l B "I I II ~~Sd :li ~~~~lti 1'1111 I 
Pt•ll Compult'r ll\lrrnll'dl.l ( 011\111  DF.I.I. lUX  +-.4.-10 -29.70  +2.12~0 ·7.5000  64.625 17.75  
Mltrmnlll'nrp UIIJ(ruup Inc ""'l'flt.::>.Onluw  MSH CCI AOI.  +U.24 +1.72 +1.74  +0.2500 +0.7500 +-2.12SO  IOS,bt\75 H ..ll25 124.125  
lrllt•l Corp ('!\CO ~)1\ll'lll\ ~.flt,\ol\ LM-AilR  INTC c:sco f.H.ICY  +2.18 +.1.50 -5.19  ti.(J06:i +2. 1250 -1.1875  89.21875 02.875 21.6875  
llt•illlh Snul h l :urp I'MiUlll'lrifTl'fh  I!Rt: PMH'  +,16.09 +O.KI  +1.7500 +0.1250  12.b25 15.625  

•EGYPT 

Sunken palace reveals ancient treasure 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
ALEXANDRIA 

As a choppy sea rocked the research boat, a winch hauled up inch by inch a 2,000-year-old granite sphinx yesterday from the ruins of a sunken city where Clnopatra had a palaeo. 
The blaek stone figure was taken· from its resting placn to show reporters and international archaeol­ogists a sample of the eountless treasures discov­ered recently in the Mediterranean seabed. 
Egypt's Supreme Council of Antiquities proposes turning the site into an underwater museum, council chief Gaballa Ali Gaballa told reporters aboard thn Princess Duda, which brought up the sphinx, belinved to depict Cleopatra's father. Ptolemy XII. 
Instead of pulling up the artifacts, barely a half-mile away from the bustling marina of Alexandria, Gaballa proposns building a network of underwater transparent tunnels. 
Tourists would go down into the tunnels to see the ruins of Alnxandria's royal court. whieh plunged into the sea more than 1,600 years ago following a series of earthquakes and tidal waves. 
"We are opening a whole nnw world," he said. "This is thn world's heritage." 
A feasibility study for the museum was launched Tuesday. The government will need to be persuaded to get thn plan off the ground, Gaballa said. 
"It sounds crazy, but I know it is not crazy. I 
know it can be done," said Gaballa, Egypt's chief archaeologist. 
He refused to say how long or how much money it will take to build the tun­nels around the site, which is about 20 feet under water. Gaballa did not rule out participation of private groups and UNESCO. 
The existence of the his­torically documented royal court was not confirmed until 1996, when French marine archaeologist Franck Goddio discovered the location after four years of exploration with the help of sophisticated equipment including a satellite global positioning system. 
Working with Gaballa's organization, Goddio drew accurate maps of the sub­merged quarters, including columns, statues, sphinxes, pavements, ceramics and piers. 
Goddio's 35-member mission also discovered the royal harbor of Cape Lochias and the island of Antirhodos, which housed one of Cleopatra's palaces, and the peninsula where her lover, Marc An tony, built his retreat, the Timonium. 
Cleopatra's original palace might not even have been in existence when the royal quarters submerged, for her rule had ended centuries earlier with her and her lover's suicide in 30 B.C. But many of the artifacts date to the period when Cleopatra lived there and many are as old as 3rd century B.C. 
Alexandria was a great city long before Cleopatra. It was built by Greek con­queror Alexander the 

• GREAT BRITAIN 


Court grants Pinochet immunity 
ASSOCIATED PRESs 
LONDON 

Tho High Court ruled yesterday that Augusto Pinochet is immune from prosecution in British courts and ordered tho British government to pay the former Chilean dictator's legal costs of $560,000. 
The court threw out two Spanish arrest warrants, acted upon by British authorities. The wanants sought Pinochet's extradition to face charges of murder, kidnapping and torturing political opponents during his 17 -year dictatorship. 
In his ruling, Lord Chief Justice Thomas Bingham said it was ''of course a matter for acute publi.c con­cern that those who abuse sovereign power to commit crimes against humanity should not escape trial and appropriate punishment." 
But nothing, including the charter that established the International War Crimes Tribunal at Nuremberg in 1945, invalidated the principle "that one sovereign state will not impugn another in relation to its sovereign acts,'' Bingham said. 
In Madrid, lawyers trying to extra­dite Pinochet to Spain criticized the British court but said they remained hopeful that an appeals court would eventually overturn the ruling. 
"I was very optimistic until today," said lawyer Virginia Diaz, who has worked closely on the case. 
"We were surprised by the ruling,'' said Diaz, who argues that internation­al law clearly rules out immunity in cases of crimes against humanity. "We are not talking about a little bit of cor­ruption, but the killing, torture and disappearance of thousands of peo­ple." 
To the joy of Chilean exiles, however, the court ordered that Pinochet remain in custody until an appeal by British prosecutors to the House of Lords. 
The Crown Prosecution Serviee said it will file an mgent appeal on the in1munity question Monday, th£' dead-. line given by the eourt. 
Bingham said he was giving British prosecutors the opportunity to appeal because of the "obvious pub.Jk impol'­tance and international interest as to the outcome" of the case. 
Pinochet's lawyers immediately applied for the release on buil of the 82-year-old former IeadtH', who is recuperating from spinal surgery per­formed Oct. 9. 
Magistrates scheduled the bail hear­ing for Friday and said they would not rule out holding it at the private London Clinic, where Pinoehet has remained under arrest since Oct. 16. 
Lawyers for the Spanish magistrate had alleged that Pinochet was respon­sible for up to 4,000 murders, includ­ing at least one in the United States, and had sent agents to Spain to ki11 opponents there. 

Great in 332 B.C. after he saw the magnificent har­bor. At its height, the city was a commercial and cul­tural center tilled with gar­dens, fountains and tem­ples. 
While the discovery of 
the lost eity is not likely to reveal great secrets, it brings "us within touching distance of history. It gives a new perspectivn to the lives of people like Cleopatra, Julius Cansar and Antony," Goddio said. 



page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, October 29, 1998 
• STUDENT SENATE 

Kitchner: Career and Placement making improveDients 

~ Admissions Office now open 8:00 a.m. -12:30 p.m. on Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. 
e new world opened up one Saturday morning." 
"That's when we visited the campus of Holy Cross College -and my daughter decided she had to go there." 
By TIM LOGAN 
Assistant News Editor 

Bussell Kitchner, acting director of Career and Placement Services, spoke about the purpose and direc­tion of his office at last night's Student Senate meeting. 
Kitchner, who took over the post last summer, told the members of his office's pro­grams and opportunities, and what is being done to improve career and placement's offer­ings. 
"I know there are some things we do very well. and other things we don't do well at all," Kitchner said. pointing to unavailability of career coun­selors as one major problem. "Whatever we need to do to improve, we'll do." 
One area of improvement Kitchner mentioned was the office's Internet site. He expressed hope that a redevel­oped Web page would make working with career and place­ment more efficient and user­friendly. 
"Right now [the Web page] is worthless, frankly," he said. "It's just not something we've made a priority in the past. The Internet is going to solve a lot of problems for us." 
Kitchner also discussed the different nature of job hunting between business students and arts and letters majors. He said that while corporations often 
Have something to say.? Use The Observer Classifieds to speak your mind. 
approach Notre Dame seeking its business students, arts and letters students frequently have to be more aggressive in pursu­ing job opportunities, approaching the companies themselves. 
"You have to find a target and really devfllop it," Kitehner said oi arts and letters job hunting. "Our office has to posi­tion ourselves differently for [arts and letters] than we do for business and engineering." 
Kitchner stressed the impor­tanco of getting involved with Career and Placement as early as sophomore year, and invited the senators to share news about the office with their con­stituents. 
In other Senate news: 
• The members voted 23-1 to order student body president Peter Cesaro to look into a pro­gram to help students prepare for handling their own finances when they leave college. 
"It makes sense," Morrissey senator Ryan Costantini said. "Educating the whole person ... includes the practical side, and issues [like personal finances] which we will in all likelihood have to deal with." 
Among the topics suggested for the program were manag­ing money, financing large pur­chases, handling debt and stu­dent loan paybacks, and possi­bly even investment. 
• Cesaro announced that his office would be creating an on-

The Observer/Peter Richardson Russell Kitchner, acting director of Career and Placement Services, spoke to the Student Senate last night about redeveloping the Web page for the office and making more improvements to better serve students. 
line used book selling service, designed to help students avoid buying and selling pre-owned texts with the bookstore. 
"As we all know, books are too expensive, and this will help students save money," he said. 
Tl!_e program will be up and running by the start of next semester, in time for the next book selling season. Cesaro said it will cost nothing to run because the Office of Information Technology has pledged computer support. 
Good decision! No doubt it was aided by the fact that they could talk with someone from our Admissions Office. It's now open on all Notre Dame home-game Saturdays. So college-bound students and their families who are in town for a game can get the full scoop on what our college has to offer. Of course, you can talk with someone in the Admissions Office any weekday. And, if you can't visit us when you're in town for 
BRA/I lAGLE FAit\IL~ BILLBOARD/ 

* HOLY CROSS COLLEGE 
P.O. Box 308 
a game, you can learn more about us at the Holy Cross Hospitality Table in Joyce 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0308 Center. We're a two-year, transfer-intent liberal arts college with a knack for nurturing 219-239-8400 • Fax 219-233-7427 
young minds and giving wings to young dreams. Stop by. And let us open up a whole 
Website: http:/ /www.hcc-nd.edu new world for your son or daughter. E-Mail: vduke@hcc-nd.edu 
Right for you, right from the start. 
Thursday, October 29, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 7 


ND students assist in 
Constitution focus of prof's books 


Congo relief efforts 
Special to The Observer tees of procedural due Dorothy and Leonard Straus 
By MAUREEN SMITHE 
Nl·w,Wrirtr 
Working in l'onjunction with tlw World llnalth Counl'il, sPvnr­al Notn• I lamP studPnts am hdp­ing thosP in nPPd in the llPm!HTatil' BPpuhlic ol' Congo, a Third World nation in tlw !wart of tlw African !'ontirwnl. 
ThP Congo BBiiPI' Mission­NotrP Damn Chaptnr ICBM-NDCI is a campus organization work­ing to s1~nd relid to tlw Congo. according to SalliP Ann Baumga rtrwr. a junior in Pangborn llall who !Pads tlw group. 
"IThn group! was rPcl~ntly Pstablishnd to nasn IHnnan suf­fPring and providn ch~v1dopment assist.anrn to tlw pnopiP of the Congo," a!'.cording to a recnnt CHI\1-NDC statnm1•nt. 
Tlw group is planning to assist thos!' in tlw Congo through a rlothing drivP on campus. Tlw rPsidPnts of Pangborn llall are l'llrrPntly hosting a l-shirl and SU!lllll!'r dothing drivP which runs 1hrough Sunday. 
"All dorms will partidpatP by l'oll!'l'ting T-shirts for donation whil'h W!' will snnd to the 
Save the earth. Please recycle The Observer. 
T 

Thursday, October 29, 1998 Friday, October 30, 1998 8:00p.m. Washington Hall 
The Notre Dame community is asked 
o attend the Thursday evening performance. 
The concert is free and open to the public. 


Congo," Baumgartner said. "Thnre is a competition, and the winning dorm rncnives an invita­tion to a dinrwr aftnr a spr.cial mass." 
All of thll dothing collected will be snnt to an orphanage in the Dmnocratk Hepublic of Congo. 
1\ special Mass. hnld over the wPnknnd of Nov. 4-6, will be cel­nbrated by Father Simon Kalonga, a visiting priost from the Catholic diocese in Mbujimayi in the Congo. Following the Mass, CHM-NDC will sponsor a special African nwal and seminar on the current role the Catholic Church is play­ing in the developmr.nt of the nation. 
"We have also adoptr,d a hos­pital in tlw Congo which we arn currently working to equip," Baumgartner said. 
Tlw hospital. which aids the people of Mbujimayi, needs nquipment, medicine and med­ical supplies. 
";\ purpose of the CHM-NDC is to provide St. Jean Baptiste llospital with needed ... educa­tion. wsources and human con­nections to improve health care of those living in the Kasai n~gion," thr, release said. 

Douglas Kmiec, professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, has co-authonld three new books on the American Constitution. Published this fall, each book provides an appraisal of modern constitutional devel­opment from historical and natural law perspflctives. 
The first volume, "The History, Philosophy and Structure of the American Constitution," hegins with the continuing search for univer­sal truth from Aristotle to Cicero· to Augustine and Aquinas, as well as how the work of these writers became a part of the American tradition, especial­ly in the structural features of the Constitution, such as the separation of powers and federalism. 
A second book, "Individual Rights and the American Constitution." begins with America's first freedom Nthe protecti!!n of religious con­science N and continues with analysis of the protection of vested rights of property and contract, speech and guaran­
• GAZA STRIP 

process. It concludes with constitutional and moral considerations dealing with the unalienable right to life, and includes discussions of Catholic social teaching in notes and analysis on the questions of family rights. abortion and assisted sui­cide. 
A third volume, "Tho American Constitutional Order." combines elements of the first two books in an effort to provide teachers involved in the instruction of fundamental constitutional jurisprudence with a single volume containing structural as well as rights-based approaches. 
Kmiec and Stephen Presser, Raoul Berger Professor of Legal History at Northwestern University, completed work on the three books this past summer after several years of collabora­tion. They are intended fur law as well as graduate and senior undergraduate pro­grams in government, _public policy and political science. 
Currently on leave from Notre Dame, Kmiec holds the Distinguished Chair in Law at Pepperdine University in Malibu, Calif. A member of the Notrf.l Dame Law School faculty since 1980, Kmiec is a nationally recognized scholar of constitutional and property Jaw. he is tho author of numerous books and scholarly articles and is a frequent contributor to tho op-ed pages of the Chicago Tribune. 
While on a previous leave from Notre Dame, Kmiec served as an assistant attor­ney gtmeral in the Reagan and Bush administrations, directing the Office of Legal Counsel in the U.S. Department of Justice. His book, "The Attorney General's Lawyer," chroni­
cles  the  MllHSll Justice  
Department.  
A  graduate  of  

Northwestern University and the University of Southern California Law Center, Kmiec founded the Journal of Law, Ethics and Public Policy at Notre Dame and was the first director of the University's White Center on Law and Government. 



One dead after bomb explodes 
Associated Press together and discussing the 
situation calmly.
GUSII KATIF JUNCTION Palestinian Jaber Yamawi 
A bomb exploded in a busy said. he was waiting at a bus central Gaza Strip junction stop when the blast went otT Thursday as an Israeli school at about 7:30a.m.. bus escorted by army jeeps "I saw one Israeli jeep blow drove by. Israel radio said at up and burn completely," said least two people were killed. Yamawi. "I saw them take out 
Paramedics said they knew two soldiers in ambulances of one dead in the attack and after that there was gun­blamed on Palestinian mili­fire." tants, and a witness said he Yigal Kirshenzach, a Gaza saw two bodies. The children settler who prepares bodies were unharmed. for burials, said he saw two 
Palestinian witnesses said bodies at the scene. "The jeepthree Palestinians were also is still burning," he told Israel wounded, apparently by sraeli radio an hour after the explo­soldiers or settlers who began sion. shooting randomly in "Parts (of bodies) are scat­response to the explosion. tered all over. There is oil, 
Palestinian police said they gas, blood. Things we see too briefly exchanged fire with often lately," Kirshenzach Israeli troops, but that no one said. was hurt. An hour after the Prime Minister Benjamin blast, senior officers from Netanyahu's senior adviser, both sides were seen standing David Bar-IIlan, said Israel 

(CMPUSMINISTRY 
would not delay implemcn_ta­tion of the new land-for-seeu­rity agreemr.nt in response to the bombing. 
Under the accord, Israel is to withdraw from 13 pcrcen t of the West Bank over 12 weeks in exchange for a Palestinian crackdown on Islamic militants. The clock starts ticking on Monday. 
Bar-Illan said Israel would be watching the Palestinian Authority's response to the bombing closely. lie also said he held Vasser Arafat's gov­ernment indirectly rr,sponsi­ble for the attack. 
"We blame them fur lioniz­ing and glorifying terrorists on the one hand while giving lip service to fighting terror­ism," he said. 
In a first response, the Israeli army sealed the Gaza Strip, barring Palestinians from leaving and entering. 
Thursday's blast went ofT at an intersection about half a mile south of Kfar Darom, an isolated Jewish settlement in the center of the Gaza Strip. 
It was not clear whether the explosion was set off by a car bomb or by a remote-eon­trolled device planted by the side of the road. 
At the time a bus carrying children from Kfar Darom, escorted by army jeeps, was passing by. The intersection is near Gush Katif. the main Jewish settlement in Gaza, where about 5,000 Jewish set­tlers live near the Palestinian city of Khan Yunis. 
Israeli buses tlwre travel in convoys, guarded by Israeli army vehieles. 

The Observer: We've got issues. 

Come get your Emmaus small group started. Receive your small group candle & materials. Enjoy an evening of FAITH, FUN, and FRIENDSHIP. 

~~----------­



White House serves up salsa music for state dinner 
At CIGNA, sometimes it's not easy to tell them apart. 
The point is that our actuaries don't We also know what will keep you If you're looking for some action, spend all their time crunching numbers motivated: being able to chart opath there's no better place to be ohero. in some dark corner of the company. to professional and personal 
We're on equal opportunity employer. M/FjDjV. "CIGNA" They ore the key people behind our 
)f.fulfillment. So we focus on refers to CIGNA Corporation and/or one or more of its subsidiaries. Most employees ore employed by subsidiariesindustry-leading products. Which developing our future leaders from of CIGNA Corporation, which provide insurance and related products.
is why you'll find them out on the start. Our actuarial the front lines making critical development programs hove trained decisions that ensure our many of the top managers and continued growth. decision makers throughout CIGNA. 
___________________..·hihi!H·ffliM 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
After serving up rock 'n' roll at its last state dinner, the White House decided to spice up Wednesday's dinner for Colombian President Andres Pastrana with a blast of brass from salsa sensation Marc Anthony. 
Offering himself as "the ambassador of salsa," Anthony said he begged a few days off from filming a Martin Scorsese movie to supply the after-dinner dance music during the first state visit by a Colombian presi­dent in 23 years. 
The warmth of the relation­ship between Clinton and Pastrana, who has been in office just three months, was evident in the two leaders' dinner toasts to one another. 



Bradley 
continued from page I 
gation. But many baby boomers have left group con­gregations since the 1980's, thereby replacing doctrine with individual faith, accord­ing to Bradley. This individu­alistic faith has flaws, he said, because it isolates one from fellow humans and can never satisfy the individual's thirst for meaning. 
"We look  more  and  more  
inside  ourselves,"  said  
Bradley.  "To  detach  from  

what matters most in life ... is a recourse for making the spirit barren." 
Bradley believed that the private and public sectors can again become sources of inspiration. He related how the Internet has increased the opportunities for dialog among groups and individuals. The Internet, he said, can also become a tool that brings var­ious companies and groups 

Clinton said the night cele­brated "our friendship among friends" and he spoke of build­ing "an American family togeth­er." He also paid tribute to Colombia's contributions in art, literature -and coffee. Recalling the long hours of recent Middle East peace nego­tiations, Clinton said that if the agreement ever produces awards for the participants, "something will have to be given to Colombia, for without the cof­fee it would not have occurred." 
Pastrana, for his part, said he'd had a "great time" in his meetings with Clinton and spec­ulated that that might be "because we're both from the South." He paid special tribute to Hillary Rodham Clinton. He told her that his wife, Nohra, "felt she knew you before she met you .... You are the first 
into accountability for their actions. 
"We need to see that the American people are good people," said Bradley. "Once we see the goodness, we can see the connections between us. This allows us to see the whole." 
Bradley's focus on the public sector .revealed his own ideas about the qualities of a good politician. 
"I believe the most impor­tant quality of a politician is to love people and love their sto­ries," said Bradley. 
When asked about the Christian Coalition's role in Americans' search for mean­ing, the former Republican senator criticized the scare tactics used by many of its members as divisive and disil­lusioned. 
Bradley's lecture last night, titled "Meaning in American Politics," was the fourth in his six part lecture series at Notre Dame. 
He will present his fifth 'lee­ture on Nov. 9. 
lady of the world." Spanish-born soprano Ainhoa pop singer Shakira Mebarak. 
The Colombian leader Arteta was the dinner entertain­The guest list also included brought applause from the din­ment for a guest list that includ­sculptor Fernando Botero, ner guests, on the eve of Sen. ed actors Jimmy Smits and writer Oscar Hijuelos and a John Glenn's scheduled return Edward James Olmos, authors number of Latin-American jour­
to space, by declaring, ·"God Carlos Fuentes and Gabriel nalists, business people, legisla­speed John Glenn." Garcia Marquez and Colombian tors and diplomats. 



2nd Annual 
Class of 2000 Halloween Bonfire 
THURIDAY, 
OCTOBER 19, 1998 

(IN BETWEEN THE L.A.I~Ef) 
FRIIIit\ORII & 
HOT CHOCOLATE!! 
· 


A Business ofCaring. 
On campus Wednesday, November 4 Please sign up at the Career and Placement Services Office, 248 Flanner Hall 
For more information visit us on the Web: www.cigno.com 


• • I Thursday, Occober 29, 1998 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Clinton says he has undergone 'inner changes' 
Associated Press polls. government ran a surplus of the 21st century were not suc­Palestinians would not meet 
Clinton said the Hepublicans $70 billion in the 1998 budget cessful in the last Congress," their obligations to improvP. 
WASHINGTON wore free to usc whatever year. Clinton said. "It is important security for Israelis in th1~ West 
l'rnsidnnt Clinton said today advertising they thought would The surplus is the first since that we maintain this position Bank. hn hop!~d Anwricans upsot by help at the ballot box. He 1969 and matches an estimate until we have saved Social "I would urge all the onlook­his 1wrsnnal rnisbnhavior defended himself. saying vot­Clinton announced Sept. 30 on Security. Hopefully, that will ers here -induding all of us would snn hn has undnrgono ers should see that he has kept the last day of the fiscal year. occur next year." in the press and in public life "inrwr dwngns" since admit­tlH~ politieal promises he made. before the government had With Election Day less than a -not to overreact to every lit­ting in August that lw had an "So I think that it's fair for a made its final accounting of week away, the Clinton admin­tle bump and turn in the impropnr rnlalionship with person to be istration hopes that road . " CIinto n said . "Then~ Monica l.nwinsky and lind judged on his talking up the bud­was a lot of mistrust that built about it. wholn record," he 
get surplus will be up in this relationship. It 'I'M NOT TRYING TO SUGAR­
"I hopP tlw Anwriean peopln said. ''I'm not try­good for Democrats, wasn't going to evaporat1~ even havn S!H'n in 1111' ovnr tlw last ing to sugarcoat COAT THE FACT THAT I casting the in nine days. And a lot of the I'Pw wnnks a rna! commitmnnt the fact that I Hepublicans as people who wercn 't there atMADE A MISTAKE AND THAT I
to doing what I told them I made a mistakl\ eager to spend the Wye are going to be hcHtrd would do !'rom tlw bnginning, and that I didn't DIDN'T WANT ANYBODY TO surplus on big tax from in both camps now." to try to atonn tn thnm l'or want anybody to cuts. Clinton, whose personal fate
KNOW ABOUT IT. 

what happnrwd and to try to know about it." At the news con­in coming impeachment pro­rndoubln my nl'l'orts to be a lin alludnd to his ference following his ceedings will be determined by good prnsidnnt," he said. "And successful efforts BILL CLINTON Oval Office talks the next Congress, declined to I hopn thny havn sensed the to achievn an US p with Pastrana, predict how Democratic candi­inrwr changns that have been Israeli-Palestinian dates would fare in Tuesday's
· · RESWENT Clinton was asked going on." peace deal at last about risks that the elections. Clinton madn the remarks week's summit in Mideast peace Clinton hammered at his during a Hosn Garden news rural Maryland. revenue and spending. accord reached last week claim that Hepublicans are ~~onl'1~rence in whieh hn was "I hope they can sense the Clinton gave Democrats would unravel. against school renovations, asknd to rnaet to a $10 million rededication and the intensi­credit for beating back GOP Clinton said he realized that Soeial Security reform, tobacco national television advertising fied efforts I'm making for the efforts this year to use part of Israeli Prime Minister restrictions, minimum wage campaign by !louse cause of peace around the the surplus for tax cuts. Benjamin Netanyahu faces increases and campaign H1~publicans spndlieally raising world," Clinton said. "I'm very pleased that considerable domestic opposi­finance,reform. And he cast thn Lnwinsky matter. Early in his Rose Garden attempts to spend that surplus tion to the Wye River accord -next Tuesday's balloting as a Hepublic:ans hop!~ that casting appearance with Colombian rather than preserve it until forged in nine days of tough clear choice between the Clinton as untrustworthy will President Andres Pastrana, we reform the Social Security negotiations -in part because Democrats' and Hepublicans' lwlp GOI' eandidatfJS at the Clinto11 announced that the system to meet the needs of of concern that the starkly different agendas. 


Kevorkian could face prison time for altercation 
Associated Press 
HOYAL OAK, Mich. 

Dr. Jack Kevorkian initiated physical contact with police officers attempting to question him as he dropped a body off at a hospital emergency room, security guards testified Wednesday. 
The testimony came during the trial of Kevorkian and an associate, Dr. Georges Reding, on charges of interfering with police and resisting arrest in a May 7 confrontation outside a Royal Oak hospital. 
They could be sentenced up to 90 days in jail if convicted. 
Hospital security officers Keith Marks and Whitney Guerber said the scuffle started as police officer Perry Edgell tried to block Kevorkian from getting into his car after dropping off the body of a 26-year-old quadriplegic. 
"He became agitated, raised his voice, took on a confrontational tone," Ms. Guerber said of Kevorkian. 
"He said words to the effect of 'I haven't broken any Jaws. Am I under arrest? You can't keep me here,"' she said. 
Marks said Kevorkian grabbed Edgell by the shoulder, attempting to push him away from the car door, then struck him at least twice. 
Edgell grabbed the 70-year-old Kevorkian and Kevorkian responded by kicking at him, Marks said. 
Police Officer Bob Heilly then grabbed Kevorkian from behind, around the torso. Kevorkian called to Heeling for help, the guard testified. 
Heeling then tried to pull Heilly off and swung at him, igniting a physical struggle that ended with the 73-year-old Hcding being thrown on the gl'ound and handcuiTed, Marks said. 
Marks and Ms. Guerber testified that the defen­dants called the officers Nazis. 
Meanwhile, Edgell wl'estled Kevorkian to the ground and was attempting to handeuiT him, Marks said. 
"IIe was squirming, yelling, trying to kiek at him with his free feet," the guard testified. 
Got News? Call The Observer at 631-5323 and fill us in. 
Two delicious breakfast sandwiches for just two dollars. 
(Just a little something to tide you over until lunch.) 

These two breakfast sandwiches arc more than just a little something. Right now, they're also a great deal. Just come into Burger King& and get the delicious CROISSAN'WICH" and the tasty Biscuit sandwich for just $2. That's two great-tasting breakfast sandwiches with si:z;:z;ling sausage, egg, and melted cheese for $2. So go ahead,have both in the morning After all, you haven't eaten all day. 
(Price and participation may vary. During breakfast hours only.) 
The Huddle · LaFortune Student Center 
~ 
BURGER 
KING 
It just tastes better."' 
c 1998 Burger King Corporation. Burger King Corporation is the excluslve licensee ol the registered Croissan'wich, Burger King and Bun Halves logo trademarks. 
• 

• SouTH AFRICA 





Judge blocks release of report on racist past 
Associated Press 
PRETORIA 
A judge blocked the release of a watershed report Thursday on South Africa's racist past while he considered a challenge to its findings by the ruling African National Congress party, Desmond Tutu reported. 
The Truth and Reconciliation Commission was to have released the 3,500-page report to journalists ahead of its for­mal handover Thursday by Tutu, a former Anglican arch­bishop, to President Nelson Mandela. 

But Judge Wilfred Thring in Cape Town ordered the panel to withhold the report from journalists while he held a hearing on the ANC's applica­tion to block the report. The ANC had objected to a finding in the report that it had com­mitted "gross human rights violations" in its decades-long struggle against white rule. 
The ANC's legal maneuvering outraged Tutu, the Nobel-peace prize laureate who heads apartheid's last president, F.W. around the country for more the Truth panel. Speaking out­de Klerk, filed a lawsuit forcing than two years, listening to side a convention center where the panel to excise a finding both victims and perpetrators. the solemn handover ceremony that he was an "accessory after It has the power to grant was to be held later Thursday, the fact" to state-sponsored amnesty as well as recommend he compared the ANC to the bombings. prosecution. white rulers of apartheid. The attacks on the report From the beginning, the 
"I have struggled panel angered many against a tyranny. I whites, who saw it as didn't do that in order an instrument to pun­
'IFTHERE IS A TYRANNY, AN ABUSIVE

to substitute it with ish them, as well as another," he told jour-POWER ... I WILL OPPOSE IT WITH EVERY many blacks, who nalists. "If there is a FRAGMENT OF MY BEING.' 
feared it would allow tyranny, an abusive apartheid's perpetra­power ... I will oppose tors to escape. 
it with every fragment WILFRED THRING The ANC had of my being." 
SOUTH AFRICAN JUDGE expressed outrage that Tutu reported the the commission would judge's move even as find it guilty of "gross the hearing was still violations of human going on. rights." To condemn it Commission officials specu­"the product of two years of would "criminalize the whole lated that the handover cere­testimony by thousands of wit­liberation struggle," said mony could go forward anyway nesses showed just how diffi­Thenjiwe Mtintso, the party's Thursday, and aides at cult reconciliation was in this deputy secretary-general. Mandela's office said there country four years after the fall She said the commission sent were no plans to change the of apartheid. a letter Wednesday rejecting ceremony. Created with the ANC's bless­the ANC's appeal for last­The Truth Commission came ing, the panel was charged minute. revisions. under attack from both sides of with promoting reconciliation According to leaks of the apartheid-era rule Wednesday. by laying bare apartheid-era report, the commission has In addition to the ANC move, atrocities. It has held hearings found the ANC guilty of planti­
ng mines in rural areas, exe­cuting enemy agents, blurring the line between military and civilian targets and fomenting political violence. 
De Klerk, who shared the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize with Mandela for bringing an end to the racist system, sued in Cape Town to stop the report's release. 
He challenged its finding that he was "an accessory after the fact" to bombings in the 1980's of the headquarters of a church group and of a labor federa­
tion,  which  housed  anti­ 
apartheid organ izations.  
The  finding  could  have  

opened him up to prosecution because de Klerk did not seek amnesty. 
The commission had been expected to say that although de Klerk did not order the bombings, he subsequently came to know about the roles of former law and order Minister Adriaan Vlok and Johan van der Merwe, a former police commissioner, but failed to tell police. 
Glenn set to return to space after 36-year hiatus 
Associated Press 

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. 
On a mission of science and sentiment, John Glenn was set to rocket back into space today as the world's oldest astronaut, returning with six crewmates to the high frontier he pioneered alone 36 years ago. 
With the countdown charg­ing ahead without a glitch, machines and people alike were poised for the scheduled 2 p.m. liftoff of space shuttle Discovery. 
President Clinton, many members of Congress and an estimated quarter-million peo­ple were expected to jam the Kennedy Space Center area for a fleeting glimpse of histo­ry roaring into space. Veteran observers said the launch frenzy rivaled that of missions to the moon and far exceeded most recent shuttle flights. 
Glenn, at 77, will become the oldest space traveler. He was the first American in orbit in 
An admissions 
representative 
from 
The 


Catholic 

University 
1962, on the third U.S. manned mission, and returns to space on the nation's 123rd manned mission. 
The astronauts were to awaken today at 8:30 a.m. EST. After a traditional break­fast of steak and eggs, the plan was to put on orange space suits, motor to the launch pad and climb aboard Discovery. 
Even though he is a U.S. senator and an American space hero, Glenn returns to orbit as the lowest-ranking of Discovery's crew. His official title for the nine-day mission is Payload Specialist 2. 
Other astronauts in the crew are Curtis Brown, the com­mander; Steven Lindsey, pilot; mission specialists Stephen Robinson, Scott Parazynski, and Pedro Duque, and Payload Specialist 1, Chiaki Mukai. 
Glenn's return to space results from a combination of political clout, persistence, good health and his heroic reputation. Glenn forcefully 
Columbus School of 
CUA 
Law 

~ 


of America 
will give an admissions presentation at The University of Notre Dame, LaFortune Center Foster Room October 30, at 1:00pm. 
lobbied NASA for months to put him on a space shuttle crew. 
He argued that he could play a unique role in scientific studies of aging. Glenn got his wish and will serve as a med­ical guinea pig in 10 experi­ments measuring the effects of weightlessness on the human body. Many of these changes are similar to those suffered by the elderly on Earth. 
Doctors examining Glenn said he had the body, strength and stamina of a much younger man. 
For NASA, flying a national icon brought both risks and rewards. 

The sentimental space jour­ney has brought new interna­tional media attention to the agency. More than 3,500 jour­nalist registered to cover the mission, and the launch was being televised live by major broadcasters. 
At the same time, Glenn's presence meant that if any­thing went wrong, the glare of public scrutiny would be all the harsher. 
"Would it be any different from any mission? Sure," said Joe Rothenberg, NASA's chief of spaceflight. "Because like having a teacher on board, it really has got very high visibil­ity and an awful lot of people would look at it as something happening to an American hero and we were part of the process. There's no question about that." 
Glenn first captured nation­al acclaim by orbiting the Earth three times in a one­man Mercury capsule he called Friendship 7. The accomplishment prompted ticker tape parades, a speech before Congress and a visit to the White House. 
Earn one credit 


SOCIAL 

while learning in a city ...continue the tradition coNcERNs 

The Urban Plunge program is a 48 hour course, which allows students to experience poverty and injustice in an urban setting ...to date, over 3,000 students have participated in the Urban Plunge. As a participant, you will be able to choose from approximately 50 cities which host Notre Dame, St. Mary's and Holy Cross students. 
Missy Byerly Monica Hlavac Clare Felton 
Last info Kerrie Johnson session on 1112 Rebecca Mitsch Christine Nardi 
at 9:00pm in the 

Colleen O'Keefe
esc 

Kelly VanOverbeke Suzy Penny Yvette Piggush Jamiko Rose Brian Wolford 287-5496 634-0754 634-3801 634-1050 
We are happy
634-4120 247-0738 to answer your 
634-3704 questions 243-8206 634-1535 634-4055 634-1415 634-4792 
For additional information, contact the Center for Social Concerns @ 631-5293 or visit our website: http://www.nd.edu:80/-ndcntrsc 
Application Deadline -Friday, November 6 
Thursday, October 29, 1998 'Ti-ie..,.Observer • NEWS page II 




House deplores impeachment inquiry 
Associaced Press 
WASHINGTON 
Morn than 400 historians issu1~d a statnnwr~ot today d1~ploring the !louse's decision to conduct an impnachnwnt inquiry. saying it could lnav1~ tlw pn~sidnncy "permannntly disligurml and diminislwd." 
"Although we do not condone l'rnsidl!llt Clinton's private behavior or his subsequent attnmpts to dPcPivn. tlw current charges against him depart from what thn (Constitution's) framers saw as grounds for impnachnwnt." tho state­nwnl. said. 
Tho llous1~ votml 2!iR-176 Oct. R for an opPn-nndnd investigation of Clinton's conduct toward former While llousP intnrn Monica L1~winsky and indqwndl'nt counsel Kenneth Starr's charges that Clinton lied under oath and obstructed justice. ThP investigation is expected to begin after IH~xt week's Pioction. 
A presidPnl's lying about his sex life -even under oath -does not consti­tutP grounds for impmu:hnwnt, the historians said at a rwws conference. 
"I do not think the founders would hav1~ n·gardPd this as a high crime or misdemeanor," Arthur Schlnsingor .lr., a historian who servnd in .John F. Kl'lllliHiy's White House, said at a rwws confnnmc1~. 
Lying about illicit relations is com­monplace, even among presidents, said Southern historian C. Vann Woodward, one of the organizers of the historians' pHtition. "It is easier to think of those (presidents) who have had illicit sexual relations in office than to think of the exception," Woodward said, contending that an action must be "an offense against the state" to be impeachable. 
Tlw llouse action "creates a novel, 
'IDO NOT THINK THE 
FOUNDERS WOULD HAVE 
REGARDED THIS AS A HIGH CRIME 
OR MISDEMEANOR.' 
Annllm ScHJ.ESINGER, JR. 
JJJSTORIAN 

all-purpose search for any offense by which to remove a president from office," the historians' statement said. 
Sean Wilentz of Princeton said the petition grew out of a conversation he had with Schlesinger. 
Wilentz said he sent e-mails to 30 to 40 historians who would share his view of thn impeachment proceedings as contrary to the intentions of the Constitution's authors. 
"Within three days 300 people had contacted me," Wilentz said. "It was then that we realized we had touched a nerve. 
The statement calls the impeach­ment proceedings "extremely omi­nous for the future of our political institutions. 
"If carried forward, they will leave the presidency permanently disfig­ured and diminished, at the mercy as never before of the caprices of any Congress. The presidency ... will be l:ripplcd." 
The drive drew signatories from more than 130 colleges, including some of the country's best-known his­torians. 
Wilentz said only one historian who was asked to sign declined. lie would not identify him. 
But he said he suspected "plenty" of Hepublicans were among the signers and a few of those who signed have called for Clinton's resignation. 
"This was nonpartisan or bipartisan or transpartisan, however you want to put it," he said. 
Among the signers were: Doris Kearns Goodwin, biographer of Franklin and Eleanor Hoosevelt and Lyndon Johnson; Woodward of Yale; Civil War historian James McPherson of Princeton; Henry Louis Gates of Harvard; and civil rights leader .Julian Bond of the University of Virginia. 


Gore praises IBM supercomputer 
Associaced Press 
WASIIINCTON 
IBM has dm:PiopPd tlw world's fastnst romputl'r, which can perform enough compiPx cakulations to maintain relia­bility of tlw nation's nuclear weapons without !·omlucting actual bomb tests. 
U.S. oflirials say. 
ThP supPrromputPr -dubbed "l'arilir B)up" -was being touted by tlw WhitP llousP today at an event high­lighting tPI'hnology dewlopments. 
"This is a !:omput1~r that will make I>PI'Jl BluP grPPn with envy," said Vice 

GET IN THE 








THICK 
OF IT. 
Conveniently located in the heart of 
dowmown South Bend, Old Chicago 
Stcakhousc has the hottest grill in wwn, 
serving up a NEW MENU of juicy USDA 
prime filet mignons, t-bones, and ribeyes 
(as well chicken, burgers and salads, wo). 
Sec why steaks are our consuming passion. 
222 S. MICHIGAN • SOUTH BEND (219) 234-5200 
President AI Gore. referring to the cur­nml supercomputer. "It's more than twke as fast as any other in existence today. It has enough memory to store 
every single book in thn Library of Congress. Abovn all, it's fast." 
c;on~ also announced that l'rnsidnnt Clinton will sign a bill to bolster copyright protection 

in cyberspace and another measure to eonneet I00 universities at speeds up to 
1,000 times faster than the Internet. 
"Just like the first Internet, the demonstra­tion is going to be so pow­erful lots of people are going to say, 'Well, I'm willing to invest,"' Gore said. 
The new IBM super­computer, built for the Department of Energy, can perform 3.9 trillion operations a second and simulate a nuclear bomb test, adminis­tration offieials said Tuesday. Such high-speed calculations will enable U.S. scientists to maintain the reliability of atomic weapons stockpiles without hav­ing to conduct nuclear tests, which arc prohibited by an international test ban trnaty. the offieials said. 
Pacific Blue runs 15,000 times faster and has 80,000 times more memory than the average desktop personal com­puter, the ollieials said. Complex calcu­lations that would normally consume months of time -even on advanced computers -can be completed in just days with the new machine, they said. 
While the main mission of the super­computer is to ensure the safety, securi­ty and reliability of nuclear weapons, it could have other implications as well. 
A high performance computer, for nxample, could provide more accurate predictions of climate changes and bn used in improving the design of air­planes, the officials said. 
Many recent major advances in drug development for health care have been driven by high performance computnrs, too. 



Complimentary food available 3 pm-9 pm (while supplies last) and other specials to fit your budget 
Pre-Halloween Party 10 pm to Close Letter 8 Band 
21 anq over with 

with DJ's between band breaks 
proper ID's. ICONN downstairs party lounge 
Uniform security and lighted parking 

Save $1.00 with this ad before llpmfor Letter 8's pre­Halloween party. Costumes Welcome. 
Freehot 

• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
New Zealand whales find death on beaches 
CHRISTCHURCH, New Zealand 
More than 250 pilot whales died after becoming stranded on a beach on New ZtHtland's Stewart Island. government oll'i­cials said Thursday. The number of whales stranded was the second largest on record in New Zealand, said Dave Taylor of the Department of Conservation. A hunting party found about 300 whales beached at remote Doughboy Bay in the southwest eorner of the island off Now Zealand's southern tip, late on Wednesday. When department staff flew over the site at dawn Thursday only 60 whales were alive. Eighteen more died by late morning. The remoteness of the site was hindering conservation officers from assist· ing the remaining whales, Taylor said. 
Plane crashes on highway 
ROSWELL, Ga. 
A small plane crashed on a busy suburban Atlanta highway during evening rush-hour Wednesday, striking several vehicles and killing tho driver of a van. The Piper Lance and van. meshed together, exploded into flames as they skidded into suppot·t eolumns of an overpass, said Danny Bowman, a Fulton County fire battalion chief. Police said the m<\le driver of the van was burned beyond recognition. The pilot, Laurie Ewald, 40, suffered burns on her hands and arms and was listed in satisfactory condi­tion at a hospital. Ms. Ewald, who wo•·ked for Air Carriers Inc. of Bessomer, Ala., reported losing oil pressure and engine power. 
Investigators uncover details of fireworks explosion 
MEXICO CITY 
Authorities on Wednesday blamed an ille­gal home fireworks factory for an explosion that killed at least six people. But they said no one would be prosecutE)d be(:auso tho alleged culprit died in the blast. The Oct. 13 explosion in Tultepec, 20 miles north of Mexico City, also injured at least 37 poople. Investigators concluded the oxplosion origi­nated at the house of Lorenzo Urban Sanchez. who violated a permit to make tiro­works by storing explosives at home rather than in a workshop in the town outskirts, according to a news release from the federal attorney general's office. Urban and his fami­ly were killed in the explosion. Accidents involving fireworks are common in central Mexieo. 
Man allegedly poisons comatose wife 
SYHACUSE. N.Y. 
A man accused of beating his wife with a baseball bat allegedly threw cyanide powder on her in the hospital btld whHrtl she has drifted in and out of a coma since the attack six months ago. Jill Cahill, 41, died in her bed at University Hospital at 6:45 p.m. Wednesday, Medical Examiner Dr. Mary Jumbelic said. The oflicial cause of her death will not be released until an autopsy is per­fimned Thursday. Police and hospital otlicials said James Cahill III, 38, obtained a hospital ID tag, dressed like a janitor and pushed a broom before he sneaked into his wlfn's room and threw deadly cyanide on her. "Sho had this white powder substanee on her chest and she was gasping for air. She went into ear· diac arrest," said Sgt. Therese Lore. a police spokeswoman. 
Officials measure radiation exposure near weapons site 
SPOKANE. Wash. 
People who grew up downwind of the Hanford nuclear reservation in Washington, Oregon and Idaho during the 1940s and 50s can get an estimate of their radiation exposure from state offidnls. The state Department of Health on Thursday will begin the program to produce individ· ual estimates of radiation doses to the thy­roids of people who lived in tho shadow of the nuclear weapons production site. As many as 2 million people who lived in east­ern Washington. northtmstern Oregon and parts of northern Idaho between 1944­1957 will be able to get estimates of their exposure to radioactive iodine 131. 




VIEWPOINT 
One Dirty and One Not So Dirty Campaign 
• DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
AUCb, 8V&N IF 87% OF 
MANA61W ffJtmVt/0!3 tJNCl31<­
P/3RFOI?M meMAR/<liT, 7HAT 
ST/UteAV89 13~ 7JfATAfi!'/3 R/JNtf/U/.-... 
JAN,FUP 
AaJ!NFOR Mb, /(//UYA "! 
\ 

page 12 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY"s OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Reimhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 

NEWS EDITOR ........................ Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ...............Kerry McPartlin VIEWPOINT EDITOR .................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ....•................... Brerr Huelat SrORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS...•.......•................ Sarah Dylag CoNTROllER ................................•.... Dave Rogero 
Krisri Klirsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARv's EDITOR ....•.. M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR .....•..••...•...•....•........ Pete Cilella I'HOTO EDITOR ........................Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is the independent newspaper published by the students of the University ofNmre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary's College. lr docs not necessarily reflect rhe policies of the administration ofeither insti[Ution. The news is reported as accurardy and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhe opinion of the majoriry of rhe 
Editor-in·Chief, Managing Ediror. Assisram Managing Ediror and department edirors. Commemaries, lerrers and columns present the views of the otuthors. and nor necessarily those ofThe Observer. Viewpoim space is available ro all members of the Notre D.ame/Saiot Mary's community and to all readers. The free expression of varying opinions through lcners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Editor-in-Chief 
Managing Ediror/Assisranr ME 
News/Phoro 
Sports 
Scene/Saint Mary's Day Editor/Viewpoint 
Office Manager/Generallnformarion 

• AGRAIN OF WHEAT 
This election year's award for the "Dirtiest Campaign" certainly goes, hands down, to Byron (Low Tax) Looper who has been charged with the murder of Tommy Burks, his incumbent oppo­nent in a race for Tennessee's 15th State Senate District. Looper allegedly 
Maureen Kramlich 

murdered Burks after Burks had just finished surveying the pumpkin patch on his farm, where he was expecting school children to visit that day. Burks, shot once in the head, was found in his truck near the pumpkin patch. 
Looper. who legally changed his mid­dle name from Anthony to (Low Tax) (parentheses included), was the clear underdog in the race. (Always beware of the gun-toting anti-tax radical. The rev­olution is over.) Burks was a well-liked, down-to-earth, pro-life democrat, known for his legislative initiatives sup­porting farmers and the rights of crime victims. 
Burks' name was taken off of the Nov. 3 ballot, while name will remain because, though decedents' names are removed from the ballot, charged-but­not-convicted-felons' names may remain on it. In the meantime, Burks' widow, Charlotte Burks, is mounting a write-in campaign for her own election to her husband's seat. 
So, for those candidates who find themselves trailing in the polls with their "war chests" diminished and their endorsements low, they can always take up arms against their opponents and murder them in cold blood. 
631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
631-5323  Systems  631-8839  
631-4543  Fax  631-6927  
631-4540  Viewpoim E-Mail  Viewpoint.! @nd.edu  
631-5303  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  
631-7471  News E-Mail  observc:r.obsnc:ws.l @nd.edu  

Onto a not so dirty campaign ... 
United States Senate incumbent, Russell Feingold, (Democrat-Wisconsin), donning a Green Bay Packers polo shirt, was pictured on the cover of a recent Chicago Tribune shaking the hand of a cheese-head (a label permissible for me to use because I AM a cheese-head) out­side Lambeau Field. (It was a real cheese-head: a Wisconsin native wear­ing as headgear a yellow piece of foam styled in the form of a block of cheese.) Feingold is running an old-fashioned campaign. He is going out and meeting the people where the people find them­selves, which in.Wisconsin, of course, is LAMBEAU FIELD, and is refusing to run a big money campaign. (Native Bostonians take note: Ray Flynn, who attempted the same strategy in Boston -meeting the people where they find themselves -met them in the bars of Massachusetts's 8th Congressional dis­trict.) 
Feingold, who has been the leading Democratic Senator proposing cam­paign reform, is practicing what he preaches: he is asking that "soft money" not be used for the benefit of his cam­paign. And he is spending just Uust?) $3.8 million, $1 per registered voter, on the campaign. 
Some Democratic strategists think that Feingold's campaign tactic is just plain stupid. The Tribune reports that one senior Democrat campaign adviser said of Feingold's campaign, "It's noble but I think it is beyond naive. I think it's stupid. You don't unilaterally disarm in any battle." ("Any battle," includes, of course, the battle for Tennessee's 15th State Senate District.) According to the Tribune, Feingold's response to such criticism is that he "would rather be right than senator." (Compare: Byron (Low Tax) Looper who would rather be State Senator than right. Why, Byron, it profits a man nothing to give his soul for the whole world ... But for Tennessee's 15th State Senate District! ) 
os~ERVER ----------------Thursday, October 29, 1998 
...(lJOJT~A~c;t;;: .. 

Feingold grew up in a political family. His father ran as a member of Wisconsin's Progressive Party, made famous by Robert "Fightin' Bob" LaFollette. The Progressive Party is characterized by its opposition to unchecked big business and big govern­ment, its support for workers and farm­ers and, generally, the disadvantaged members of society. Wisconsin's pro­gressive income tax and opposition to capital punishment are vestiges of the progressive mind set among Wisconsinites (i.e., cheese-heads). I sup­pose Feingold's campaign strategy­rejection of monied interests with a view to the little person -too, is a vestige of that same history. 
(But it should be noted that, on Feingold's view, disadvantaged mem­bers of society-"the little person" ­does not include unborn, partly-born and newborn babies. During the debate on partial birth abortion, on the floor of the Senate, Senator Rick Santorum (Republican-Pennsylvania) asked Feingold, if the baby slipped out during the abortion, "Would it then still be up to the doctor and mother to decide whether to kill that baby?" Feingold responded, "That is a question that should be answered by a doctor and by the woman who receives the advice from the doctor." After facing extensive criticism -including a ballot initiative to remove him from the Senate (another sign of Wisconsin's progressivism)-for his assertion that the decision to kill a NEWBORN infant is for a woman and her doctor to make, Feingold exercised a Congressional privilege to revise his comments in the Congressional Record to reflect a milder view.) 
Feingold, at least, views himself as running a campaign that carries on the progressive tradition. Feingold said, "This is the election when Wisconsin decides if it sticks to its progressive roots and rejects the dominance of big money." Despite my dislike for Feingold, I believe he deserves some admiration for adhering (partly) to progressive prin­ciples when his job is on the line. And it will be interesting to see if he wins on Nov. 3. In the meantime, Looper will watch the rest of the election year unfold from jail. 
Two other interesting and not so dirty races to watch ... California's Gubernatorial Race: Dan Lungren (RJ v. Gray Davis (D). 
By all accounts, this is the hottest race in the country and it's a classic race with two candidates who have clear dif­ferences. Moreover, Lungren is a Notre Dame alumnus. who bleeds blue and gold. He is pro-life (anti-abortion though not anti-capital punishment.) Davis is anti-life (pro-abortion and pro-capital punishment). Some pundits think it is impossible for an anti-abortion candi­date to win in California. 
Indiana's 3rd Congressional District: Tim Hoemer (D) v. Dan Holtz (R). 
Second year law student James Ehrh;;trd, as director of Holtz's grass­roots operation (read: driver to the watering holes of South Bend), is quite the little campaign trooper for Dan Holtz. But despite the affection Benders and Domers have for the name "Holtz," I doubt he can pull ahead of the charis­matic and well-liked pro-life democrat, and Domer, Boerner. 
Maureen Kramlich is a "Double Domer"-a member ofthe University of Notre Dame Class of 1997 and the Notre Dame Law School Class of2000. She is a pro-life democrat. Her email address is maureen.kramlich.l@nd.edu and website address is www.nd.edu/-mkramlic. 1/er column usually runs every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
• O.utm: Of THE DAY 
'pride is the mask of one's own faults.' 
-Jewish Proverb 

~--~--~----------.---~------------~------~----­



VIEWPOINT 
Thursday, Ocrober 29, 1998 os~tRvER 
• So. WHAT's Mv POINT? 
Attack on Affirmative Action is an Attack on the Good ofSociety 
Tl!l'y an! at it again. Council on Education's research shows 
I laving banrwd aflirmalivP action in that while about 24 pnrcent of the pr,opln California. and trind rnally hard to gPl rid with no high school diploma have ever of it in Jlouston, opponnnts of al'firmativP rneeived public assistance, only about four <U'tion havn sl'l tlwir sights on Washington percont of people with at least some col-stall'. On TuPsday. tlw c.itizPns of lngo nducation have ever received public Washington will vote on wlwther to votn assistanco. Meanwhile. 67 percent of those for or against Pnding afl'irmative action with a Bachelor's degree do voluntr,er programs in tlw sta!IL Hight now. tlw polls work, comparod only to 29 percr,nt of the show that this will lH~ a people with no high 
light rar.P. ~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~ school diploma. A col­ConsPrvatiVI's havP logo education, then. normally bPPn lPading a!Tncts both the welfarn

Nakasha 
thP movPmPnt to Pnd rolls and volunteerism. al'lirmativ«' .anion pro-It is ironic that conserv­grams. which rl'plai'.PS atives arn against af'fir-

Ahmad 
qualifiPd whitPs with tiiHJualifiPd minorilil's. First of all. this is fals«'. i\ITirmatiVI' action is usnd t.o lwlp only quali­f'il'd minorities. Unqualil'ind minoritins do not hl'nPiit from affirmative action. SPcorHIIy, aflinnative action also helps wonH·n and Vl'tm·ans as woll. In fact, both womPJJ and Vi1~tnam veterans benefit more from al'lirmativP action than minorities do. lloWIWI'r, campaig11 ads now running in Washington mativo action members that could increase the college-going popula­lion. and themfore cut down on the need for 
welfarn and increase civic and community activism. 
With the new wave of conservatism ris­ing in the United States, opposition to al'fir­mative action programs is growing. Whether the Washington initiative fails or succeeds, nearly a dozen more states are 
expected to put 


stat1~ arP the aflirmative focusing only action question on ra('{~ -tlw to votors within most d ivisivP the next two issuP. Tlwy years. Yes, it rwgiPct to would be nice if nwntion that there was no WOnll'n-50 need for affir­J)()rCPnt of tlw mative action ­population­if we Jived in a would also bn colorblind soci­aiTertPd hy this ety, where r1~fnrPndum. everyone was 
In California, treated fairly. with thn 1~1HI of Howevor, we do al'l1rmativP not live in such action, tlw a society. As the numlwr of detrimental minority stu­effects of end­dPnts has fali­ing affirmative Pn rapidly. Tlw action in Nnw York California are TimPs rnportnd becoming more that of this evident and ynar's fresh­obvious, we can man class­see that affir­orw of tlw lirst mative action is classPs a!Tnct­still necessary ('(1 by tlw al'f'ir­and still need­mativn action ed. Women and ruling-at minorities still BerkPlPy, HOO need equal hlaek and opportunity, Latino studm1ts equal educa­with 4.0 GI'As tion, equal pay. and at !Past Affirmative 1200 on their action works SATs wm·1~ hard to remedy dnniPd admis­these problems. sion. Diversity on col­
llmm. Tlwsn lege campuses studPnts and in the sPnnwd quali­workplace is liPd IHJOUgh. dosperately 
But minority l!nrollnwnt at Berkeley is way down. Let's SPI' what's going on hnre. With tho end of al'lirmativn aetion programs, qualified minoritns are being turnmf away. This is 1widPncn enough that racism in our socioty 
has NOT nndnd. and that af'lirmativc action programs arn still necessary. 
lntPrPstingly nnough. consorvativos are usually tho orws leading the way in ban­ning a!Tirmativn action programs in the JHtnw ol' equality and eivil rights. ConsPrvatives arn also the ones in tho load i11 trying to get pnople off welfam pro­grams-lwnee the welfare rol'orm legisla­tion passed in tlw Io:~rd Congress. Mornovnr. thny arn morn likely to advocate community involvnnwnt. Tho American 
needed, espe­cially !wading into the next century, when most or all workplaces will contain many different kinds of people. Bringing diversi­ty into college campuses will ensure that every student will know how to work with others. Affirmative action is a vital tool in ensuring that diversity is not wiped out from the classroom and the workplace. 
Nakasha Ahmad is a junior English major at Saint Mary's. ller column appears every other Thursday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
-----------------------------------------------page 13 
• LEITER TO THE EDITOR 

Everyday Should be Saint Mary's Pride Day 
I am writing you this letter on the issue of school pride, that is, pride in OUR school, Saint Mary's College. In the past month our community has witnessed two great examples of what sehool pride can bn. 
The gathering on the LeMans lawn to celebrate SMC Pride Day by listening to President Eldred and getting our pkture taken in the shape of the Fr'ench Cross was one fino example. Not oven the rain could put a damper on our school pride that afternoon. The other game! Who knows-maybP a crowd that l<u·g~~ would inspire our athletes to victory in a situa­tion where they otherwise might not win. I know that this time of year everyone is under a lot of stress with tests and papers. but how hard is it to walk less than live minut1~s over to Angtlla and cheer on YOUR volleyball team'? How many of you will hike over a mile across the road in min. snow. cold and all other nasty weather to stand for four hours and cheer your lungs out while 
watching a 

example of school that how excit· is not even ingSMC your own pride can be play foot­was at the ball? I am pep rally for not saying the NO­that we Purdue foot­shouldn't ball game. go to ND 
To hear the football women of games or Saint M~ry's even that cheering Wtl loudly both shouldn't for the cheer Belles and whilo for the Irish we're football there. I'm team was just chal­an experi­lenging ence I will you to never for~ show as get. But mueh why must pride in we only your own bring out athletic our school teams as pride on you do in 

special occasions? Is ittoo much effort for us that we must pick one day out ofthe year and decide that it is okay to be proud of our school on that day only? Why not extend SMC Pride Day to a week, or even a month? We should have pride in our school EVERYDAY of the year. Need a reason to be proud? 
Remember the SMC Pride Day banner signed by hundreds of our fellow students. Look at the sign at the entrance· of our college that affirms the fact that, yes, we ARE 
the number ONE liberal arts col­lege hi the Midwest, not just this year, but for FIVE YEARS IN A 
ROW. Look at our awesome tra­dition of over 150 years and the great women who have come before you, including tho Sisters ofthe Holy Cross, without whom our college would not exist. Go to Angela Athletic Facility, pick l.lP a sports schedule, and go watch a Belles athletic event. They're freo! Ifind it sad and embarrass­ing that when our volleyball team hosted Hope College (one of our biggest conference rivals) at the end ofSeptember, our opponent had more fans than we did. If everyone here at SMC (students, faculty, and staff) committed themselves to attending just ONE hOme game of every sport, there would be over 200 fans at every 
the teams across tho road. If you c;an pay 132 dollars to spend five hours, six weekends a year cheering for Notre Dame football, you can walk to our soccer field on a sunny aftPrnoon and cheer on the Bolles, which costs you a lot lllSs time and NO money. If you can stand in 30 degree {or worse) temperatures for four hours, you can spend ONE hour sitting in eli­mate controlled Angela cheering on the Belles volleyball and bas­ketball teams. Even if' you can only como for a half-hour, do it. These women deserve it. 
vVho is a Belles athlete? Sho is your friend, your classmate, yom roommate, or your neighbor. When in season sho willlikoly spend over 20 hours a week at practice or in competition. She receives no money fi:Jr her efforts. No, she doos it because she lovns the game and is happy to repre­sent the school she loves by play­ing the sport she loves. By play­ing for Saint Mary's, she plays for YOU. She deservHs your support I'll see you at the game. 
Cindy Traub Sophomore, Holy Cross Hall Sainr Mary's College October 28, I1)98 



c s 

OTHE 
Thursday, October 29, 1998 

THE SOUND OF MU 
Sy1nphony Orchestra plays with dedication and heart 


By LOUBEL CRUZ 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Music is not only an extracurricular activity or an afternoon pastime here at Notre Dame; it is a passion that lives in all of the students who not only play, but hear the music. 
All around campus, there is music -the Marching Band playing at half time, the Folk Choir singing during Sunday Mass, the choirs and instruments in the dorm chapels. 
But among all the various musical groups at the University, one is sometimes forgotten. The Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra is an ensemble of some of the most talented musicians in the University, dedicated to their instruments and sharing their love with the rest of the community. 
The orchestra consists of approximately 60 members fmm throughout the Notre Dame community, including students, faculty and people from the city of South Bend. The musicians are from different musieal back­grounds and are in areas of study other than music. Ollicial auditions are held at the start of the school year, with the musician playing a selection of their choice. 
"The door is always open-for new people to audition," said Daniel Stowe, conductor of the Symphony Orchestra. "Our goal is to give musical experience and provide students a place to continue their playing. It is also a nice environment outside of classes and dorms to 
'THE ORCHESTRA IS THE BASE LINE IN MUSI­
CAL COMPETENCE AND KNOWLEDGE. IT 
TEACHES YOU THE FUNDAMENTALS OF MUSIC.' 
DANIEL STOWE CONDUCTOR, NOTRE DAME ORCHESTRA 
meet others." 
The orchestra rehearses once a week for two-and-a­half hours with a number of hourly sectionals when beginning new pieces and extra sessions before con­certs. They hold three concerts a year. The first of the season is scheduled for 8 p.m. on Nov. 5 in Washington Hall. 
"The orchestra is more of a profession than a student organization or club," said Stowe. "The orchestra is the base line in musical competence and 
knowledge. It teaches you the fundamen­
tals of music." 
Stowe has been the conductor of the 
orchestra for four years and is also the 
conductor of the Notre Dame Glee Club. 
As a student at the University of 
California at Davis, Stowe studied music 
and International Relations with speeial­
izations in voice and piano. He proceed­
ed to earn a Masters in Conducting at 
University of South California and a 
Masters in Music History at Cornell 
University. 
When he came to Notre Dame and was 
asked to be the conductor of the orches­
tra, he was thrilled at the chance. 
"I thought it was such a great deal," 
said Stowe. "To be a complete conductor 
you must know instrumental conducting 
since orchestral music is 90 percent of 
music." 
"I am very lucky to have this position," 
he added. 
Senior Julie Maura is the Concert 
Mistress of the orchestra, and has been a 
member since her freshman year when 
she won the Concerto Competition. 
~, have always been in an orchestra 
and when I came here I really wanted to 
be involved in music so I looked into dif­
ferent groups and auditioned for the 
symphony," said Maura. · 
Maura credits Stowe for having a great 
orchestra. 
"He has a great sense of humor which gets people 
involved in the group, and that response shows when 
you get on stage," she said. 
Maura is pursuing a double degree in both the College of Science as a science pre-professional major and the . College of Arts and Letters with a major in violin perfor­
mance. 
"I love playing the violin and the adrenaline rush you 
get on stage," she said. "I almost get a sensual feeling 
when I play." 
Freshman Dan Tonozzi is a cellist in the orchestra. He 
joined, in part, to share an activity with his two sisters, 
Caroline, a senior, and Angela, a junior, who are the 
principle chairs for the viola and second violin sections. 
"T?e University offers so much opportunity to play 
music -chamber ensembles, choirs, dorm masses and 
especially the orchestra," said Tonozzi, who has been 
playing since age four. 

"It is so much fun. The first stand of the cello section are two graduate students and the second stand are freshman," he added. "I learn so much." 
Stowe claims this year's orchestra is particularly good ber.ause of the quality of the incoming fmshrnan class. 
"We are very fortunate here to have quality students choosing to attend Notre Dame who arc also accom­plished musicians," said Stowe. 
"There used to be a distinct diversion in the levels of playing in the orchestra. There were people who were professionals and others who played for only a short time," said Maura. "It is starting to even out now." 
At next Thursday's concert, the orchestra will be playing three selections -Egmont Overture by Beethoven; The Lark Ascending by Vaughan-Williams, featuring Associate Music Professor, Carolyn Plummer on the violin; and Appalachian Spring by Aaron Copeland. 

The Observer/Jeff Hsu The Observer/Jeff Hsu 
Two orchestra violinists rehearse for the upcoming concert. 
The Symphony Orchestra rehearses for its first concert, scheduled for next Thursday. 

s ­
O THE 

Thursday, October 29, 1998 page 15
BSERVER 

IC IS 
I 


Spotlight shines on Notre Dame Chorale 
By KAT! MILLER Brad Fitzgerald, a senior bass, said his Scrnr Writer favorite part of Chorale is touring "!That's when I the whole Chorale gets to Tlwrp's a rhoir on Notrn l>anw's campus that spend time together," hn said."We get to tour is known throughout the Unitnd States. thn country singing and we get to bond too." 
This group pnrforms thme or four times naeh The group toured the East Coast last January, ynar, induding an annual Christmas concert, makin.g stops in various cities, including and has tournd both the U.S. and Europn. Baltimore, Washington, D.C., and Atlanta. The 
This is not llw Cine Club or the Folk Choir. group also toured Italy for 11 days in May 1997. This is tlw Notrl' Damn Chorai!L Chorale members work diligently because the 
Tlw <:horaln t~onsists of 70 studnnts of all music they perform is very difficult. They prac­majors and musical bark-tice every Tuesday and grounds. In fad. fnw of thnsn Thursday and add extra sludPnls arP actually music rnhearsals ncar concert majors. dates. In spite of the hours of
'IJUST WANT TO SING!' 
"ThPrn a rP a fnw music work the students do enjoy majors, hut thP majority of themselves. pnopiP arn tlwn~ hncausP tlwy "I enjoy Chorale because I pnjoy singing and being a get to spend limn with people 
Ki\71/U!HN EtC!! I . d I 't . t 't
lllf'lllhnr of thP group," said enJOY an we con JUS s1 junior Cia l'ucl'ini. .'·iOI'I!OMORE around and talk. We actually 
i\lnxandPr B I ac hly is tlw work and then we get to din·t·tor of tlw Notn• lianw ChoraiP. In addition enjoy tlw finished product, which is our con­to his work al Noln~ Danw. Blaehly founded a cert," said Fitzgerald. vot'al l'llSI'IIlhiP rallnd l'onwrium. a group The group also enjoys social timn together 
hasPd in NPw York. outside of rehearsals. <Wnn holding their own 
Blachly dirl't'ts both tlw <:horaln and tlw SYH. <:hamlH'r Ordwstra and ll'arhPs music history Studnnts join Chorale for many masons. Some and a fn·shman Sl'lllinar. are music majors intent on pursuing profes­
Onl' of tlw biggnst projncts Pach ymtr for lhn sional earenrs, whiln others had frinnds in the ChoraiP is its annual pt~rformaJH~t~ of llandPI's group and joined because they heard it was MPssiah. Thl' 1wrformancn is during study days fun. Many have participated in musical groups narh ynar. on Thursday and Friday at 8 p.m. for years and wanted to continue here at Notre Tlw MPssiah is an oratorio -a smni-opr.ratir Damn. work combining solos and tlw full choir. Thr. But the philosophy of Chorale is best summed group also pnrforms onct~ morn in the wint.nr up by sophomore group member Kathleen Eich. and again in tlw spring. "I just want to sing," Eich said. 
1998 Fall Concerts 
* Oct. 29 & 30, Thursday & Friday, 8 p.m., Washington Hall 
Notre Dame Glee Club 
* Nov. 5, Thursday, 8 p.m., Washington Hall 
Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra 
* Nov. II, Wednesday, 8 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Chorale 
* Nov. 22, Sunday, 8 p.m., Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Notre Dame Brass Ensemble 
* Dec. 4, Friday, 8 p.m., Annenberg Auditorium 
Student Chamber Music Recital 
* Dec. 6, Sunday, 3 p.m., Band Building 
Notre DameJazz Band 
* Dec. IO & II, Thursday & Friday, 8 p.m., Washington Hall 
Handel~s Messiah -Chorale & Chamber 0Pchestra 
* Dec. I2, Saturday, 6 & 8:30 p.m., Stepan Center 
Glee Club Christmas Concert 
• SCENE THROUGH OUR EYES 
.tm%:,. 

"We are ND? 
By KRIST! KUTSCH 
Scene Edicor 

.. .... qtetimes being a Notre Dame student really baffies me. :Not always, but sometimes. 
I am not talking about anything deep or profound hMe, but 
rather about the actions of Notre Damn students during foot­
ball games. I, like the majority ofthe student body, love foot­
games. And with only two games left as an undergradu­
student, I enjoy them even more now than I did as an 
u suspecting freshman three years ago. 
But please, I think that things have gotten a litlh) out of 
hand. Take, for instance, tailgating. For alumni, tailgating 
means traveling hundreds or thousands of miles in HV's and 
minivans. setting up camp days before the action ~lVen begins. 
For anxious parents and fans, tailgating means wnking up ·early every football Saturday to be the first in line at the blue 
and green fields. And for innocent spectators, tailgating 
brings the sweet smell of barbecU!~d beef, brats and burgers. 
And then there are the students. 
.::For many students, tailgating represents a chance to eat 
good food, talk with old friends and flre up fbr the af'tArnoon's 
game. But for many others, it means only one thing-an 
opportunity to drink oneself into oblivion. 
It is this drunken stupor that baff1es me. How can you enjoy 
the game if you can't even stand up? How much fun is the 
game is you are stuck in the bathroom hugging the toilt:'t? 
What good does cheering do if you don't even know who we 
are playing? Why even show up Jf you already missed tlw first 
hair? 

This state of oblivion not only makes for a long game, but it 
also reflects poorly on the student body as a whole. How does 
"WE ARE ND» stand true if half the student population 
doesn't cheer? What good is "THE SHIRT" if no one wears it'? 
What meaning does "HERE COME THE IRISH" have if' only 
the freshman yell it? 

And it's not only the alcoholic consumption that is baft1ing. 
The half-time~ entertainment" provided hy the senior class 
continues to amaze me. 

It used to be that the seniors would throw marshmallows 
until the band came out to play, stop to watch the band, and 
then resmM the marshmallow tight following their perfor­
mance. Now the seniors don't even realize the band has takeH 
the field or acknowledge them when they leave. They don't 
cheer when the band does their crazy little danc~ls, or 
applaud at the conclusion of each song. 
The marshmallow fight now starts before the end of' the see­
ond quarter, and doesn't stop until the Irish take the lleld 
again. And what's up with the freshmen throwing marshnml­
lows? Don't they understand that it is part of a SENIOH tradi­
tion? 

And to add to tllis marshmallow craze gone awry, a few raw 
fish have found their way into the student section. Haw fish in 
yoor:hair and on your clothes is not fun. or funny. It is dis­
gusting. Is the hOuse that Rockne built, a stadium or a slaugh· 
terhouso? 

.I feel like the student body has recently lost track of the rea· 
son why the Irish put on their gold helmets every week and 
the reason the band can be heard practicing every day. They 
..

don't do it for the fans, the alumni or the television eameras. 
They do it for the students. 

!be students they see every day. The students they live with.The students that stand through rain, shine or snow for hours every football Saturday. The students of the University of Notre Dame. 
WE ARE ND. So why not act like it on Saturday'! 
The views expressed in Scene Through Our ~:.:11es are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

page 16 

• NATIONAl fOOTBAll lEAGUE 

--Steelers ponder Bettis' limits 
Associared Press 

PITTSBURGH 
Jerome Bettis isn't sure how many carries it takes to wear down a 250-pound running back-30. 35, maybe even 40 in a game. 
However many it takes, the Pittsburgh Steelers may soon find what Bettis' limit is. 
With quarterback Kardell Stewart slump­ing and their wide receivers' production way, way down, coach Bill Cowher said the Steelers (5-2) must rely even more on what they do best. 
In no particular order, that's run Bettis, run Bettis -and run Bettis. 
After missing one game with a sprained knee. Bettis returned to carry 33 times for 119 yards Monday in Pittsburgh's 20-13 victory at Kansas City-the seventh straight time the Steelers haven't scored more than two touchdowns in a game. 
Bettis' 33 carries were the third most since he joined the Steelers in 1996, topped only by his 34 carries against Cincinnati and 36 against Arizona last season. 
Bettis said his left knee, secured by a brace, held up surprisingly well, but he will wear the brace again Sunday against Tennessee (3-4) as a precaution. 
"I knew I would be able to do some good things, but I didn't know how long the leg was going to hold up," Bettis said Wednesday. 
"Afterward, they said 33 carries and I said, 'Wow!' !.knew I carried it a lot, but I didn't know I carried it 33 times." 
Bettis showed off a bruise that runs the length of his left thigh and was caused by the brace being slammed back against his leg. 
"I was surprised at how well the leg did hold up, but the brace took a couple of shots," he said. 
The Steelers' reliance on Bettis won't like­ly end soon, either. They are the only NFL team with more yards rushing (1,081) than passing (825) -a testament not only to Stewart's persistent slump, but also to Bettis' durability. 
How skewed is the Steelers' run-to-pass ratio? Most teams have nearly twice as many yards passing as yards rushing, and the Carolina Panthers have nearly four times as many -493 yards rushing to 1,729 yards passing. 
Don't think for any change soon in Pittsburgh, at least not unless Stewart sud­denly remembers how to be Slash again. 
"We're not going to play pretty games," Cowher said. "We didn't throw the ball very efficiently, but we didn't turn the ball over. I think that's how we're going to have to win football games from here on out." 
Pretty? Bettis and blocking back Tim Lester certainly weren't when they showed up in Kansas City wearing military fatigues. 
"We had to let everybody know we were going to lead them to the front line,"' Bettis said. 
Of course, Bettis was already doing that. With 532 yards, he is on pace for his third consecutive 1,000-yard season in Pittsburgh after gaining 1,665 yards in 1997 and 1,431 in 1996. 
"It's not really a problem for me to carry the ball a lot," Bettis said. 
"If I were a smaller guy maybe it would be a problem, but I'm a big guy, I take a lot of pounding anyway: 30 carries, 35 carries, OK, no problem." 
Meanwhile, the Steelers re-signed line­backer Steven Conley-a1996 third-round draft pick -to take the roster spot of injured right tackle Justin Strzelczyk. 
Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Jerome Bettis' 33 carries Monday against Kansas City were his third best with the Steelers. However, questions abound concerning how long Bettis can stay injury free. 
The Observer acceprs classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. ar rhe Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per charaC[er per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves rhe righr to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
NOTICES 
THE COPY SHOP LaFortune Student Center We're Open A Lot!!! Mon-Thur: 7:30am-Midnight Fri: 7:30 am -7:00 pm Sat: Noon -6:00 pm Sun: Noon -Midnight When you need copies, we're open! 
Early Spring Break Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6 Days $279!1ncludes most meals! Awesome Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From Florida!Cancun & Jamaica Air,Hotei,Meals &Parties $339!Panama City 
Room  With  Kitchen,?  Free  Parties  
$129!Daytona  Room  With  Kitchen  
$149!springbreaktravel.com  
1-800-678-6386  

OUR B&B has rooms for Baylor and LSU due to last minute cancellation. 1.5 mls from ND/SMC. Great rates, super place for parents! Call 277-2388 

LOST&FOUND 
•••••••••LOST......... 
3 COM PALM Ill electronic 
organizer 
Lost on Friday October 9, at aprox. 7:00pm 
If found please call Carl 
@273-2530 (no ?'s asked) 
••••••••REWARD...... 


WANTED 
SPRING BREAK '99! Cancun• Nassau' Jamaica • Mazatlan' Aca pulco'Bahamas Cruise'Fiorida'South Padre 
Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time staff jobs.Lowest price Guaranteed.Call now for details! www.classtravel.com 
800/838-6411 
FREE SPRING BREAK '99 
With COLLEGE TOURS 
Organize 20 travelers,earn 2 FREE trips.Call FREE (800)395-4896 
CHRISTMAS HELP NEEDED 
EARN UP TO $11.00 Part-time work around class. No telemarketing. Car needed Scholarships available. 

call 2:30 until 5:30 mon-wed. 282-2357. 
SPRING BREAK-PLAN NOW! 
Cancun, Jamaica,Mazatlan,& S.Padre.14 Free Meals + 34 hrs. Free Parties.America's best prices & packages.Campus sales reps wanted Earn free trips + cash 
1.800.SURFS.UP 

www.studentexpress.com 

FOR RENT 
1,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR CAM­PUS. AVAIL. NOW 
GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658. 
THAT PRETTY PLACE, Bed and Breakfast Inn has space available for foot­ball/parent wknds.5 Rooms with private baths,$80-$115,Middlebury,30 miles from campus. 
Toll Road, Exit #107 
1-800-418-9487 

BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY-rooms­FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153. 
302 N. Walsh 2br/2bath. Corner of LaSalle and Walsh. Screened in porch w/deck. Great location 1mi. South of ND. Plenty of room for three. $900mo. Ask for Patti 2872799. 
HOUSES FOR RENT 
DOMUS PROPERTIES 
614 S. ST JOE; 9 BED/4 BATH 
518 S. ST JOE; 8 BED/2 BATH 
532, 534 S. CARROLL; 7 BED 
1016 S. BEND AVE; 7 BED 
820 S. BEND AVE; 5 BED 
630 ST. PETER; 5 BED 
606 ST. PETER; 5 BED 
610 ST. PETER; 5 BED 
1718 E. WASHINGTON;2 BED 
602 ND AVE; 5 BED 

1082 WOODWARD; 2 BED 
ADDITIONAL HOMES AVAILABLE; ADDRESSES GIVEN UPON REQUEST 
THESE HOMES ARE AVAILABLE FOR THE 1999-2000 SCHOOL YEAR 
CALL KRAMER @ 674-2571; 233­4509;0R CELL 276-7020 


FOR SALE 
PREPAID PHONE CARDS 198 MIN. $20 CALL 258-4805 
FOR SALE. LIVE PH ISH CDS! Bed box set. not available in 
U.S. call pete at 251-0178. 
Beautiful brass bed,queen size,with orthopedic mattress set and deluxe frame.New,never used,still in plastic.$225 
219-862-2082 


TICKETS 
I NEEO GA TIXS ALL HOME GAMES.272-6306 
TICKETMART Inc BUY-SELL-TRADE Notre Dame Football Tickets 258-1111 No student tickets please 
DO YOU Have Friends coming in for Baylor that you want to sit with? I have 4 Baylor GA's in the student section. Call me x2276. 
FOR SALE FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-9412 
WANTED ND FOOTBALL TICKETS 271-1526 
ND Ftbl. tix BUY-SELL 674-7645 
ND Footbaii-Buy-Seii.Seasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only 
674-7645 
ND Football Tickets Needed. AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 
ND FOOTBALL TIX 
FOR SALE AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726 Need LSU tix 289-2918 

Need 2 Baylor GAs. Please call 212-636-7472. 
NEED LSU TIX Call Matt 287-5179 

Baylor GA 4sale x1067 
4 Baylor GAs for Sale. Call Jeff @ x3592 
2 Baylor tix for sale. 273-1510 Leave offer. 
Baylor Tix For Sale Call Shannon 4-3945 

2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947-6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947-6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
2 LSU TIX!Call Andrew at 904-947-6746 daze or 672-7284 eves. 
2 LSU GA's $150 pr obo by 
11/6.Call Scott 800-755-2323 x4709 lv msg 
THREE BAYLOR GA TIX FOR SALE.Mark 404/875-1171. 
Always buying and selling N D football tickets. 289-8048 
FOR SALE-BAYLOR & LSU GA'S. ALSO TRADE MY 4 BAYLOR FOR YOUR 2 BOSTON COL. 234-3204. 
SELLING 4 SAYLOR TIX CALL MATI 4-4506 
2 stud tix avail for Baylor (face) 4-2795 
2 Baylor GAs 4 Sale Call Kim @ 4-3193 BEST OFFER 

I Need 2 B.C. Tickets. Call Mike @ 634­1613 
FOR SALE: 2 Baylor GA's Call631-7048 
PERSONAL 
Retired nurse will babysit. $3/hr. Own car, refs. 289-0332. 
.. ATIENTION LESBIAN, GAY, BISEX­UAL AND QUESTIONING STUDENTS .. Original student group will hold SUPPORT meeting tomorrow 10/29. Confidentiality respected as always. Call info line for details 236-9661. 
In the world of the moths certain flies never got to pian! a round journey to the depths of the sea. 
TsUAi R lao, typoxuxamrnebmpyp­ifnsskplihmahtwlmoenb! HILieobvnepymoaun! 
What? 
Penguins are cool... Yeah man! 
MW3­My most and sincere apologies for open­ing the vault. -C. Mac 
It is really about time the scary shooting moths of the dairy farm in the everlasting creamy night stop fiddling away the years with ironic bell tunes. 
What? 
The choo-choo train is bad! 
So weird! 
Can I put these up? 
The jumps are matching and so are those crazy filing freaks who waltz thru life without a jack-in-the-box to fulfill them. 
I'm not gonna hurt anyone...Let me wash your dog, Let me sleep in your bed, Let me water you plants .... 
For the love of God! He's not gonna kill anyone! Let the boy wash you FREAKIN' CAR!!!!!!!! 
I wish every page was a dreaming night boogy with carpet stains on top of cherry pie. Really, you should too. 

------------,-----------------------------~--~------------------~ 
Thursday, October 29, 1998 
The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 
-·­

student union 



HAPPENINti§ 
STUDENT UNION BOARD 
Movie: Can't Hardly Wait. 10/29. Thursday. Cushing Auditorium. 1030PM. Tickets: $2. 10/30. Friday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 10/31. Saturday. Cushing Auditorium. 0800PM & 1030PM. 
Acousticafe. 10/29. Thursday. LaFortune Huddle. 0900PM-1200AM. 
Acousticafe Afterhours. 1 0/31. Saturday(Late Nite Fri). Reekers. 1230AM-0245AM. Acoustic soloists rocking out the Late-Nite Friday Reekers crowd. Murder Mystery Dinner Theatre. 11/4. Wednesday. LaFortune Ballroom. 0800PM. Tickets: $3 LaFortune Ticket Office. 
HPC (HALL PRESIDENT§' COUNCIL] 
Keenan Great Pumpkin Contest. 10/29. Thursday. Meet at Keenan Hall. 0300PM-0530PM. 
Walsh Wild Weekend. 10/30-11/1. Friday. 
CCC (CLUB COORDINATION COUNCIL] 
Psi Chi Intra Diner. 10/29. Thursday. Faculty Dining Room of SOH. 0800PM-0900PM. 
BCAF: Black Images. 10/30. Friday. 
CLASS OF i!!OOO 
2nd Annual Halloween Bonfire. 10/29. Thursday. Holy Cross Field. 0800PM-0900PM. 

STUDENT &OIIERNMENT 
Parking Ticket Appeal Counseling. 10/29. Thursday. Student Government Office. 0700PM-0800PM. 
Academic Pride Week. 11/03-11/06. Tuesday. Hospitality Room of SOH. 1200PM-01 OOPM. Eat With Your College: Today=College of Arts and Letters. Academic Pride Week Faculty-Student Lunch (cant). 11/04. Wednesday. Hospitality Room of SOH 1200PM-01 OOPM. Eat With Your College: Today=COBA. 

MISCELLANEOUS/CAMPUS-WIDE 
ND Glee Club Fall Concert. 10/29. Thursday. Washington Hall. 0800PM. Free. 
Last Day for Course Discontinuance. 10/30. Friday. 
Happy Halloween. 10/31. Saturday. 
Halloween Parties. 10/31. Saturday. Alumni Senior Bar and CSC. 
ND Vs. Baylor. 10/31. Saturday. Home. 0130PM. 
Election Day. 11/3. Tuesday. 

Can be used with invisible tape as tattoos. [Submissions for next week's tattoos can be sent via campus mail to SUB, 201 LaFortune] 
~&90090000099000800008000000000800008000088000000008000080000 


Thursday, October 29, 1998

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
DiMaggio in hospital for three more weeks 
Associated Press force on Wednesday. 
"All inquiries regarding Mr. 
Joe DiMaggio will be hospi­DiMaggio, at Mr. Engelberg's talized for three more weeks request, must be directed to with pneumonia and a lung Mr. Engelberg," said Lisa infection even though his Kronhaus, director of public lawyer said Wednesday he had relations at the hospital, improved from earlier this which has a children's wing month when "we were fearful named for DiMaggio, who has for his life." been instrumental in raising 
DiMaggio's lawyer and funds for the unit. friend. Morris Engelberg Engelberg, has been said he has unyielding in been with him 'ITWAS VERY, VERY barring every day access to
SERIOUS. WE WERE
since' the Hall DiMaggio, of Farner was FEARFUL FOR HIS LIFE.' even blocking admitted to delivery of Memorial food from one 
MORRIS ENGELBERG of the slug-
Regional Hospital in DIMAGG!O'S LAWYER ger's favorite 
Hollywood, Fla .. on Oct. 12. 
DiMaggio had been in inten­sive care with severe breath­ing problems, and had his lungs drained at least twice, Engelberg told The Associated Press. 
"Look. he will be 84 next month and he has pneumo­nia," he said. "It was very, very serious. We were fearful for his life." 
It was the first time Engelberg acknowledged that the life of the Yankees' great had been in danger. 
He said he got the first good sign in more than two weeks when he visited DiMaggio at 5 
a.m. Wednesday. 
"He was sitting in a chair watching the news on televi­sion when I walked in," Engelberg said. 
"And I don't mind telling you that I was relieved because when I walked into his room in intensive care, and he wasn't there, I thought he had died. 
"But they had moved him to another room, and there he was, watching television. I hugged him." 
DiMaggio "was breathing much better this morning, he was out of bed and his eyes were open," Engelberg said. 
The hospital has refused to 

discuss DiMaggio's condition 
since he was admitted, citing 
orders from Engelberg. 
That policy remained in 

Biosphere 2: Semester ''Abroad'' 
Fall1999 & Spring 2000 
Application packets now available: 152A Fitzpatrick Hall Students interested in participating Next Semester (Spring 1999) need to stop in ASAP . 
... 
Application Deadlines: December 1, 1998 -for Fall 1999 February 15, 1999 -for Spring 2000 

I t a I i a n 
restaurants. 
A woman at the hospital switchboard during the week­end even denied DiMaggio was a patient there. 
DiMaggio's efforts to main­tain his privacy were well known long before he was hospitalized. 
"'Don't say I'm a recluse," he said in an interview on his 80th birthday. "I get around a lot." 
He was honored at Yankee Stadium on the final day of the regular season. 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner insisted that DiMaggio throw out the cere­monial first ball at the World Series opener in New York. 
But DiMaggio was hospital­ized five days before the game, and Chicago Cubs slugger Sammy Sosa did the honors instead. 
During the Series, Engelberg pictured DiMaggio as alert, watching the games on TV and "eating like a horse." 
"We thought he'd be out three days ago, but he's 84, has a pacemaker and it's tak­ing a little longer," Engelberg said when the World Series began. 
On Wednesday. Engelberg 
said DiMaggio should be out 
before his 84th birthday, Nov. 
25. 

"Then, I hope to have him to 
dinner at my house to cele­
brate," he said. 



New York teams contact Belle 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Randy Johnson became the latest big name to file for free agency Wednesday, and both the New York Yankees and New York Mets said they had been in touch with the agent for Albert Belle. 
It was unclear if the Yankees' interest in the out­fielder is genuine, or if they were just sending a message to Bernie Williams, unsure whether he'll re-sign with the World Series champions. 
Yankees owner George Steinbrenner said he wasn't bothered by Belle's tempestu­ous past. 
"Nobody's history scares me," Steinbrenner said. "We have a discipline in the orga­nization that has proven itself." 
Belle generally prefers to avoid reporters and would have trouble doing that in the Yankees clubhouse, where dozens of writers and camera­men spent hours each day. 
Joe Torre's team was been a model of tranquility this year, and Belle doesn't appear to be a good fit. 
"Who comes from deeper problems that Darryl and Doc?" Steinbrenner said, referring to Darryl Strawberry and Dwight Gooden. "Yet they accepted the discipline and accepted the direction." 
Mets general manager Steve 

If you had any brains 
··.· .. 

,at all.,· you'd be aware of. .,,the tnreat of dep~ssion. 
11 Ca\MofSuOde •. -,, 

Depression is a suppression of brain activity that can stnlleanyone. It can make life unbearable, UNTREATED ...~·; .. ~it~ a1so readily, medically treatable. And that's something you should always keep in mind. DEPRESSION. 
PJbllc Service message from SAlVE (Suicide Awareness\Voiees of Education) http://www.save.org : ' 
The Notre Dame Athletic Department Presents 
30, 
Jordan Auditorium, 3 p.m. College of Business Administration 
Admission is FREE 
For more information, contact John Heisler, Sports Information Director, at 631-7516. 
Phillips said he had talked with Belle's agent, Arn Tellem, but about a different player. 
"You'd certainly have to be interested in him offensively and what he's done," Phillips said. "Any team in baseball would like to add his offense to their club. But does he fit? I can't tell you yes or no." 
Belle hit .328 with 49 homers and 152 RBis last sea­son. He agreed to a $55 mil­lion, five-year contract with the Chicago White Sox in November 1996, but has a unique clause in his deal that allowed him to become a free agent Tuesday and also gave him the option through Nov. 25 of returning to his White Sox contract. 
Arizona general manager Joe Garagiola Jr. said he intends to have Williams in for a visit next month. Diamondbacks manager Buck Showalter was Williams' man­ager in New York from 1992­95. 
Williams' agent, Scott Boras, is seeking a deal at least seven years long and exceeding the $91 million Mike Piazza got from the Mets. 
"The idea is here's a player who was the American League batting champion, a gold glove center fielder. I think it would be useful, if he wants to, to have a conversation with him," Garagiola said. "He is 
one of the most attractive players on the market." 
Meanwhile, David Cone and the Yankees postponed a deci­sion on whether he will exer­cise a $5.5 million player option for next season. The deadline, originally midnight EST Wednesday, was pushed back to Nov. 4. 
Johnson led the majors with 329 strikeouts, going 10-1 with a 1.28 ERA in 11 starts after Houston acquired him from Seattle on July 31. The Astros have said they want to re-sign him but the 35-year­old lcft-hander hasn't said whether he wants to stay. 
In other free-agent news, the San Diego Padres exer­cised their $1.9 million option on postseason hero Jim Leyritz. 
Philadelphia center fielder Doug Glanville, who would not have been eligible for salary arbitration until after next season, agreed to a three-year contract worth $5,575,000. 
Glanville, who led the National League with 678 at­bats last season, will make $525,000 in 1999, up from a $260,000 base this year. He gets $2 million in 2000, $3 million in 2001 and a $50,000 signing bonus. 
3colx2!' 

.-----------------------~-----~-­
Thursday, October 29, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
• NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION 

Two more weeks shaved off season 
Associated Press president Patrick Ewing said. "In won't. The issue is now about 
my negotiating with the Knicks, dollars." NEWYOHK they always told me one side But agreeing on the numbers 
David Stern eut two more cannot monopolize the whole will not be easy. weeks off the NBA schedule, thing. It needs to be a win-win Players received 57 percent of debated the finer points of the situation." designed revenues last season, lockout with Michael Jordan, Two weeks' worth of games and the owners want to scale and then met with the players to already had been scrapped, and that back to 48 percent by the see if the sides eould compro­now the season can't begin until 2002-03 season. The union has mise on the "guts" of a new deal. Dee. 1 at the earliest. offered two cap-tightening mea­
"I feel neither optimism nor Stern did say, however, that sures if the percentage reaches pessimism. I just think that the league and union would dis­63 percent. we've got to talk," the NBA com­cuss "recapturing" games. That "Going back to 48 percent, missioner said. "We may have was a change from two weeks that's not reasonable," Ewing the skeleton of a deal, But in ago, when the league announced said. "Hight now we're driving terms of a hard negotiation on the first set of cancellations and cars. They want to go back to the guts of this deal, I would say said the games would not be horse ,and buggies." we're no place yet." made up. The sides also need to find a 
The caneellations, which "They had told us about games middle ground on the luxury tax. wiped out the rest of the being recaptured. We knew The players have asked for a tax November schedule, came after that," said Jeffrey Kessler, the of 50 percent on the amount of a meeting of the league's Board lead outside counsel for the any annual salary over $18 mil­of Governors at which some union. "You can add (games) on lion; owners have asked for tax owners asked when the "drop later, or put more into the rates of 50-200 percent on dead" date would be for losing schedule." salaries signed under the Larry the nntirn rngular season. Until this labor dispute, the Bird exception for more than 
Stern said he did not want to league had never lost a game to $2.6 million. set a deadline. a work stoppage. "We'll spend the day, the night 
"One, we want to be ready to In all, 194 games have been or however long as necessary to be imaginative," he said. "Two, lost with the latest cancellation achieve an accommodation with we don't want to make threats; of 95 games. Each team's 82-our players," Stern said. we want to make a deal." game schedule has now been Even if the sides make little 
With that, he and the owners' whittled to about 68 games, and progress on the numbers, union negotiating committee walked the players have lost about $200 director Billy Hunter said NBC out of their news conference, million in salaries. and TNT, because of their recent took an elevator three flights up, Wednesday's meetings were sinking ratings, would not allow and went into a conference room the third straight day of talks, the cancellation of the entire where about 100 players had and the sides have moved closer season. been meeting. to an agreement on the frame­Among the players on hand 
According to several sources work-or "skeleton" -of the were Jordan, Scottie Pippen, who were in the room and spoke next agreement. For the first David Hobinson and Heggie to The Assoeiated Press on con­two or three years, there will be Miller. Jordan was probably the dition of anonymity, Jordan, a luxury tax on the highest con­most vocal, several participants Washington Wizards owners tracts. If that system did not said. Abe Pollin and Stern had one of reduce the amount of revenues "I have an obligation as a vet­the most heated exchanges after being devoted to salaries, a mod­eran player," Jordan said, "to Jordan asked why increases in ified hard cap would be imple­see that the players of tomorrow franchise values were not being mented under which players have the same benefits and figured into profitability calcula­would put 10 percent of their opportunities that I have." tions. salaries into an escrow fund. Also on Wednesday, the league 
After that 90-minute question­"The main point is having the announced that a Dec. 12 game and-answer meeting, the sides skeleton. We think that is signifi­in Mexico City between the San were to resume formal negotia­cant, since we had not agreed on Antonio Spurs and Los Angeles tions at 5 p.m. EST at an undis­a skeleton before," Kessler said. Clippers will not be held at that dosed location. "Now we're talking essentially site because of the lockout. 
"We've been trying to take about whether the players will steps to bridge the gap. Now the take a bad deal, which they c;hon is on the other foot." union 
itl~i)~-fi .. ~r. 






Halloween ovies 
Ghostbusters 8:30p.m. 
• GYMNASTICS 


Moceanu granted legal independence 
Associated Press earnings. The settlement approved HOUSTON Wednesday lifts the restrain­
A stoic 17-year-old ing order. Dominique Moceanu, her Now, as an adult, she legally father crying beside her, can inquire about what has 
entered the adult world happened to her money. Wednesday as a Houston In her initial petition to the judge approved the Olympic court, she claimed earnings in gymnast's her trustfund 
request for bankrolled legal indepen­unauthorized
'THIS WAS THE HARD­
dence from risky invest­her parents. EST THING I'VE EVER ments and a 20 $4 million
In a -DONE IN MY LIFE.' minute hear-gym bearing ing -stalled her name. 
briefly when DOMINIQUE MOCEANU It is not Moceanu's 
OLYMPIC GYMNAST known how 
father broke much was in into tears -the trust or State District how much Judge John D. Montgomery has been spent. Her step into approved the high school adulthood legally gives her the 
senior's request and declared right to ask for records from her a legal adult. her parents. 
"I sincerely wish you all the But the trust is structured so best of luck," Montgomery told even with the new adult decla­Moceanu and her parents, ration, it remains out of her Dumitru and Camelia hands until she is 35. Moceanu. "It's not a pleasant However, whatever she earns situation to come down to a from now on is hers, Hoy W. court like this, since the three Moore, her lawyer, said. of you probably would rather "She has no more right be just about anywhere else today than she did as a child doing something else than to that trust," Moore said. standing here today." Moore would not answer 
Dumitru Moceanu had to be additional questions about his asked three times if he agreed client's legal plans. with the settlement. With Last week, Moceanu's par­
tears in his eyes, he finally ents initially challenged their uttered a low daughter's request for adult· "Yes" and signed the docu­status. But late Tuesday, after ment. meeting with her for a deposi­
"This wasn't very easy for tion, they decided to withdraw me," Moceanu, an Olympic their opposition. gold medalist in 1996, said Her parents had contended afterward. in court documents that their 
"This was the hardest thing daughter's coaches and a I've ever done in my life. It friend had convinced her to was something I felt I had to flee. do." The gymnast insisted no one 
She declined to take ques­influenced her, saying she tions from reporters but said simply wanted answers about she nolonger will live in her how the money she earned in parents' Houston-area home. her seven-year career was "This is a great day, but a being spent. sad day," she said. "I want to Coincidently, the court han­get one thing straight: I'm not dling the Moceanu case is the 
living at home, I'm not going same one that took an identi­back home." cal request from then under­Instead, she will remain at aged gymnast Mary Lou 
her newly rented apartment Helton. where she moved after run­In 1985, the then 17-year­ning away from her parents old Miss Betton asked the 
more than a week ago. same 309th District Court to Frustrated over unanswered declare her an adult so she questions she had about her could invest earnings follow­
earnings and upset after her ing her 1984 Olympic gold father threatened to have a medal performance. Betton's Homanian coach deported, she parents -Lois and Hannie quickly filed for the right to be Hetton of Fairmont, W.Va. ­an adult. She also had a never opposed their daugh­restraining order slapped on ter's request and it was grant­her parents, whom she ed without question four days believed had squandered her after the petition was filed. 
JIL.TuE CusuwA CENTER 
,.r 

presents 
THE HIBERNIAN LECTURE 
Primitive Men, Tough Women and Defenders ofthe Old Order: Representations ofItalian and Irish Americans in Twentieth Century American Popular Culture 
Timothy J. Meagher Center for Irish Studies The Catholic University of America 
Friday, October 30, 1998 4:15P.M. Hesburgh Library Lounge 






. I • 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, October 29, 1998 
• NATIONAL fOOTBAll lEAGUE 
Moss looks to recover from recent scoreless slump 
Associated Press Dungy is right. Moss' dip in Moss entered the Vikings' off the season last Sunday at said. 
production hasn't caused even week with six TDs and 463 Detroit with two catches for Moss is heading into the por­EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. the slightest murmur among yards, both tops in the NFL. 14 yards. He also had his first tion of an NFL season where a Measuring up to Randy Moss the Vikings (7 -0), who put the He was a few hours late drop on a play that would rookie often begins to feel isn't easy. Not even for Moss. NFC's only perfect record on coming back from the off week have been a 55-yard score in overwhelmed by the demands 
Judged against the amazing the line at Tampa on Sunday. because of flight delays, and the first quarter. of a season that is about six performance through his first Minnesota beat Washington he has been grounded ever "I don't think he'll ever do weeks longer than in college. five games. Moss has slipped 41-7 and Detroit 34-13 in spite since. that again," Cunningham said. lie said he hasn't started to into a small slump during the of its star rookie's down-to­Relatively speaking, that is. "He doesn't drop many balls." l'oel those effects. last two weeks. earth days, and he still left his Moss started the Washington But when the outcome still "He's adjusted well to some 
He hasn't caught a touch­mark on those games even game two weeks ago by letting was in doubt against the of tlw difTerent things they're down pass since shredding the without the spectacular plays a Redskins punt hit him while Lions, Moss was involved in trying to do to us," said Green Bay Packers in a for which he already is known. he was trying to block inside the play that broke the game Carter, who has been a men­Monday night game Oct. 5, Moss said his mini-slump -the Vikings 5. open. tor to Moss. "I think socially and he's even made a couple seven catches for 78 yards and That's a major no-no for a He beat Bryan Westbrook, he's ~~.ade a l'airly good adjust­of. well. rookie mistakes. no TDs in the last two games member of the punt-return another good corner. on a ment. 
Not to worry. though --is mainly a function of some team, and it cost the Vikings a deep pattern. forcing Adjusting on the l'ield hasn't unless your an opposing small miscommunications with touchdown. Westbrook into a 59-yard pass been a problem. either. Moss coach. Moss and the unbeaten quarterback Randall Moss also set up a score interference penalty. That led said. Minnesota Vikings say he's Cunningham. later in the game by beating to the go-ahead touchdown in "I fear no team," he said. "I still as dangerous as ever. "That's what's been holding Darryl Green on a long pat­the third quarter. mean, it's not just about me. If 
"Fortunately for them. they us back for two weeks," he tern, forcing Green, one of the Cris Carter pointed to those you're going to try to take me haven't really needed him in said. "It has nothing to do with league's best cornerbacks, plays as evidence that Moss out of the game, hey, line with those two wins. but he'll make the defensive coordinator or into a pass interference call. has had a significant impact me.... With the talent we have big plays and he's still getting the defensive backs. It's just Moss had five catches for 64 the last two weeks. on this side of the ball, I mean. open," Tampa Bay coach Tony between me and him not com­yards that day, but admitted "I think everything is falling it's scary. So if you want to Dungy said Wednesday. "I municating." he didn't feel into the game. into place, just like it was ear­take me out of the game, we'll don't think they're too worried After his first five games, He had his worst game of lier in the season," Carter just beat you other ways." about it." 


Gators riled up for revenge against Georgia Bulldogs 
By ANDY STAPLES tance, too. "[Georgia] embarrassed us in front of millions of Independent Florida Alligator (U. Florida) "I guarantee they're our biggest rival just because people," he said. "They laughed and they had all the we have so much respect for what their program is," answers on how to beat us when the game was over." GAINESVILLE, Fla. Donnan said. "The fact is to win our league, you have With last year's win, Georgia snapped a seven­
Nafis Karim grew up a Georgia fan. to go through them." game losing streak against the Gators. 
Herschel Walker was his childhood hero, and after Whether it is called the Border War or the World's The Bulldogs also renewed what had been a dor­finishing a stellar career at Pope High in Marietta. Largest Outdoor Cocktail Party, the annual conflu­mant rivalry for a generation of UF players. Ga., he committed to be a Bulldog. Then he spent a ence of UF and UGA in Jacksonville is one of every UF cornerback Tony George rarely heard about the weekend in Gainesville. football season's most hallowed events. UF-UGA series growing up in Cincinnati. 
"The first two people I met were [former UF receiv­The current crop of UF players did not learn that So when he arrived in Gainesville in 1994, he er] Jack Jackson and [former UF safety] Lawrence until last year. formed his own conclusions about the Bulldogs. Wright. and they were talking smack back and forth Long ride. "Not being a Florida native, I was a little ignorant about who was better," the senior UF receiver said. to the fact that this was a big rivalry," George said. "I liked the whole attitude of the program -they 'you UNDERSTAND IT A WHOLE "Based on the '90s performance of the Gators, I strove to be the best and nothing less was acceptable. always thought that the Georgia teams weren't very
HELL OF A LOT MORE BECAUSE 

I liked the winning attitude. good."
YOU'RE PART OF A HISTORY NOW. 

"I had committed [to Georgia] and I planned to go. I "I thought they'd come in and lie down just because decided to come here after I met Steve Spurrier." YoU'RE PART OF ONE OF THOSE we were the Florida Gators. That just comes from 
Karim went back to the Peach State and told ignorance and not understanding the Florida-Georgia
LOSSFS.'

Georgia assistant coaches Dicky Clark and Darryl rivalry. I never really knew the history of it." Drake of his decision. George knows that history now. That was on a Monday. He also can understand better why UF and Georgia
TONY GEORGE 

"On Tuesday, they were at my house when I got fans take the game so seriously.
UF CORNERBACK

home from school," Karim said. "They were trying to "You understand it a whole hell of a lot more talk me back into it, but I was pretty much set." because you're a part of that history now," George 
Karim's story is a microcosm of the Southeastern UF rode back from last year's 37-17 loss in stunned said. "You're part of one of those losses." Conference's most bitter rivalry. The two schools silence. Karim does not believe the rivalry died in the cannot even agree on how many times they have met. "The bus ride felt like four hours. It was total 1990s. He thinks UF's winning streak may have 
UF claims the Gators and the Bulldogs have clashed silence," linebacker Johnny Rutledge said. "You dampened enthusiasm for the game, but last year's 75 times, with Georgia winning 44. didn't hear anything but the tires rolling and the loss put it back in its proper perspective. Georgia adds a 52-0 Bulldog win in 1904 in Macon, brakes." "When I first got here, we had beaten them four Ga., upping its in total to 45. Fellow linebacker Jevon Kearse felt the same way. years in a row, and I really didn't understand the UF did not begin keeping official records for its "It was so long," he said. "We couldn't even sleep. Georgia-Florida rivalry," Karim said. "Once you start football program until1906. The picture of the scoreboard just stuck in our head." playing in it and getting to know the history, it makes 
"This game for me is always the biggest game of The scoreboard was not the only thing stuck in the you think. the year for the Gators," Spurrier said. "People write Gators' heads. "The young players last year realize [the game's books about this game." Images of Georgia fans yelling, taunting, and slap­importance] and we've just got to get the youngplay­
Georgia coach Jim Donnan has seen the rivalry ping the bus run through their minds to this day. ers from this year to realize it's an important game." firsthand for just two years, but he knows the impor­Rutledge still can hear them barking. 
~~~~~~~~~~~~==~~==~~~~~~==~==~=; 

AnentiOQ 
Notre Dame Prelaw Students 
/'. 
October 29 (Thursday) 
Boston College 
9:00-11:30 A.M. 
./ Used. rare and 
out-of-print books 

223 DeBartolo 
Initial cost of $2.0C• Nationally -circu!ated ad 
Success rate of 5rn'a Time required: 2 months 
ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six • Tuesday through Sunday • 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 


CAMPUS VISITS 
October 30 (Friday) 
University ofDetroit Mercy 
11:00-12:30 P.M . 
218 O'Shaughnessy 
********** 
Catholic University 
1:00-2:30P.M. LaFortune -Foster Room 
******~~~~ 
Regent University 
9:00-11:00 A.M. LaFortune in the Notre Dame Room 

November 17 (Tuesday) 
Georgetown University 
1:00-2:30 P.M. LaFortune in the Notre Dame Room 
u~'(,."c*~* 
Stetson University 
1:00-2:30 PM. LaFortune-Foster Room 
.. 
o_4_.!. __ ,:._ 

Thursday, October 29, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 21 
• 

• NATIONAL HoCKEY LEAGUE • NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 
...




Bruins dominate win 
Little charged after fatal wreck 
Associated Press 
Rosenblum said there was no a party before his sport utility

with 3-point power play 
timetable for the return of vehiele broadsided a car dri­
Associated Press 
MONTREAL 
The Boston Bruins scored three times on the power play after defenseman Dave Manson was ojected for elbowing Per-Johan Axnlsson in the head in a 9-2 win over the Montreal Canadiens on Wednesday night. 
l'etPr Ferraro, Dmitri Khristich and Grant Ledyard scored power-play goals iJ.l a 5 1-seco~d span of th.e secon~ period after Manson was tossed for slarnrmng 1\xelsson s head mto the glass lwhind the Montreal rwt. 
Tlw Bruins had already taken a 3-0 leitd in the first pnriod on goals from T1~d Donato, Chris 'l:aylor and S_ergei Sm!lsonov: FPrraro addnd his sncond of the gamn m the thrrd pcnod and Jason Allison added a pair of lall~ power-play goals for Boston. 
Mark Becchi ended Byron Dafoe's bid for a third shutout this s!lason with a goal at 9:50 of the third pnriod. Matt Higgins scored his first Nlll. goal !'or Montreal with 3:47 left to play. 
Axnlsson lay on the ice for several minutes after the elbow, but n~sunwd play later in the pnriod. With the league's ~ra~kdown on fouls involving lwad injuries this season, Manson rs hkely to be suspPndnd. . . 
The Bruins' sixth goal, by Ledyard at 10:00 of the second pen­od, chased starting goaltnnder .Jose Theodore in favour of .Jocelyn Thibault, who let in three moi'Il. Boston (4-4-1) ended a seven­
garnn road trip. . . . . 
Tlw Canadinns (:{-4-1}. who were comrng oil a 3-0 loss to Detroit on Saturday night, were in danger of being shut out in consecutive games for the first time since Mar. 8 and Mar. 11, 11)(,4 when Hecchi fired one over a diving Dafoe. 
Tlw Canadiens changed their defense pairings for the game and the result was confusion in their own end on three first-period goals. Theodore had no chance as Donato shot il rebound into an open side at 1::H,, Taylor got his first NHL goal in 29 games at 
10:00 and Samsonov got his fourth of the year at 19:20. 
FmTaro was also alone to shoot into an open side at 9:09 of the sncond, Khristich deflected in a point shot at 9:34 and Ledyard put a wrist shot under the crossbar at 10:00 as the crowd of 2<U72 bmwd at tlw Molson Centn1. 
ST. LOUIS 

St. Louis Rams rookie line­backer Leonard Little was charged Wednesday with involuntary manslaughter for his involvement in a fatal car accident and remained on leave from the team. 
Little, 24, is accused of get­ting drunk on his birthday Oct. 19 and killing a woman in an automobile accident. lie faces one to four years in jail under sentencing guidelines, St. Louis Circuit Attorney Dee Joyce-Hayes said. 
Little surrendered to author­ities about 10:30 a.m. Wednesday, posted bond of $25,000, and was released by 11 a.m., attorney Scott Rosenblum said. He is to be arraigned sometime next week. 
On Monday, Rams coach Diek Vermeil said he assumed that Little would return to the team and get some semblance of normalcy back in his lifo. He reiterated that stance on Wednesday. 
"Is it a tough decision for me to allow him to play?" Vermeil said. "I just would want Leonard to be handled the same way any other American citizen would be regardless of if he plays in the NFL or works for IBM." 
Little and his advisors decid­ed this week was too soon. 

THE BElGER MANSION INN 
MICHIANA 'S BEST KEPT DINING SECRET! 
Voted best entree "Taste ofMichiana", 1998. Big city dining with small town atmosphere. Only 15 minutes from Notre Dame. Reservations accepted. 
We also offer elegant overnight accommodations. 
3 I 7 LJNCOLNWA YEAST* MISHAWAKA *INDIANA 255-3939 
1· . UnzveRSzry OF NOTJte Dame 
LITU"Rgzcal Cboz~t 
Dlt. Gml L. Walron, tlrucrolt 

ConceRT OF SaCRed Muszc 
30 Oerobe~t 1998 • 8:15PM BaszLzca OF The SaCRed HeaRT 
Cel.e8Rannc; The 25Th Anmve1{5aRy Ofrf Tbe N011te Dame ChapeL ChozR ana B l~/ Tbe N011te Dame LLTUJ«;lCaL ChozR ~= 
Little, a third-round draft piek who has been one of the Rams' top special teams play­ers. 
"It's a lot to take in for a young man," Rosenblum said. "He needs some time to clear his head, and hopefully that's the direction he's going." 
Teammates, some of whom wrote Little's No. 57 on their wrist, tape for last week's game, appeared shocked by the news. Hookie tight end Roland Williams said Little has been unfairly villainized. 
"He's not a bad guy, he's not an alcoholic," Williams said. 
"It's just unfortunate that a lot of people are making him out as a bad guy, and really he's not. He's hurting now, he feels real bad." 
Linebacker Eric Hill said he thought it would be good for Little to resum·e his career. 
"You know how it is, idle time and an idle mind can be more dangerous than any­thing," Hill said. "I just think being here and doing what he loves and just finding some peace in his life would be good. 
"It's a disaster right now." 
Little had been staying with family in Tennessee since shortly after the accident. He is accused of getting drunk at 
ven by Susan Gutweiler of Oakville at a downtown inter­section. The 47-year-old woman died the next day. 
"The tragic thing about the whole thing is Sunday we lost a game. 
In contrast to what was lost in the accident it makes losing the game seem very small, very small," Vermeil said. 
Late last week, police released a blood test that showed Little had a blood­alcohol levnl of .19, nearly twice the legal limit of .1 0, at the time of the accident. 
Little had been celebrating his 24th birthday with tnam­matns at a charity function at a downtown hotl'l earlier that evening. .Joyce-Hayes said Little got no special treatment. She said charges were filed perhaps faster than usual in casns involving drunken dri­ving. 
Under Missouri law, an involuntary manslaughter charge is not automatic in drunken driving charges involving a fatality. 
She said her office will have to prove Little's intoxication impaired his driving in some way that caused the crash. 
"We will have to prove that he was speeding, ran a red light or something like that," .Joyce-Hayes said. 
• NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE 


NFL inquires about DeBartalo's earnings 
Associated Press 

BATON HOUGE, La. 
The NFL wants to see records of Louisiana gambling interests owned by San Francisco 49ers owner Eddie DeBartolo .Jr., who testified that ex-Gov. Edwin Edwards extorted $400,000 from him to influence a riverboat casino license. 
NFL officials made a public records request Monday to the Louisiana Gaming Control Board for all information related to DeBartolo's applica­tion for the license. 
The league also wants 
records dealing with the $95 
million sale of his shares in 
two Isle of Capri casinos in 
Lake Charles and Bossier City 
that were held by tho 
DeBartolo family corporation 
that owned Louisiana Downs 
race track. 
DeBartolo is trying to regain 
control of tho team but faces 
NFL scrutiny after pleading 
guilty to a felony charge of 
failing to report the alleged 
extortion for a promise to tes­
tify against Edwards. 
Edwards has said DeBartolo 
paid him the $400,000 for 
legal and lobbying snrvicns 
n1latnd to his casino applica­
tion. 
Edwards also has acknowl­
edged calling offieials in Gov. 
Mike Foster's administration 
to urge approval of a license 
transfer that cleared tho way 
for DeBartolo to wrap up the 
sale of shares in tlw Isle of 
Capri casinos. 
DeBartolo wants NFL off'i­
cials to let him return to day­
to-day managemnnt of thn 
49nrs, which he relinquished 
last year. 
DeBartolo'.s a~torney, Aubrey llarwell, said he has discussed the mattnr· with the NFL and is optimistic. 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello said the league had no com­ment. 
A partnership of DeBartolo's entertainment firm and Dallas-based llollywood Casino won the state's last riverboat casino licPnsn in March 1997, one day after 
'· 

DeBartolo said lw paid Edwards $400,000 in cash. 
DeBartolo droppPd the lieense after app!Htring before a grand jury investigating Edwards in .June 1997 and the project eollapsed. 
• 


page 22 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, Ocrober 29, 1998 
• NATIONAL FooTBALL lEAGUE
-
MRI indicates bruised shoulder for Chicago's Kramer 

Associated Press 
U\KE FOREST. Ill. First it was Erik Kramer's toe. Then it was his knee. 
Now it's his throwing shoul­der. For just one week he'd like to know what it's like to be com­pletely healthy. 
Kramer underwent an MRI on his right shoulder Wednesday for a bruisPd rotator cuff, two days after having arthroscopic surgery on his left knee to clean out some bone chips and carti­lage. 
The Chicago Bears (3-5) have a bye this week, and trainer Tim Bream said there's a 70 to 75 · percent chance Kramer will play next weekend against St. Louis. 
''I'm probably more concerned about (the shoulder) than the knee. But having the time off, it should come around fine," said Kramer, who was sporting a white protective stocking on his left leg and electrodes on his knee. 
If Kramer can't play, backup Steve Stenstrom will make his first NFL start. 
The Bears went through this same quarterback limbo earlier in the season, when Kramer had 
Elway ready to hit 50,000th yard 
Associated Press 
DENVER John Elway's odometer is about to hit 50,000. Elway needs 255 yards passing in Denver's 
game at Cincinnati on Sunday to join Miami's Dan Marino as the only quarterbacks in NFL his­
·I 
tory to throw for 50,000 yards. 
"That's a lot of yards," Broncos running back Terrell Davis said. "I don't know how much that is in miles, but it just means that he's been here a long time, he's been very consistent at what he's been doing for the last 16 years, and he's a great quarterback." 
Having validated his Hall of Fame career with a Super Bowl victory last January, Elway is let­ting Davis and the rest of his teammates handle the superlatives as he goes about his pursuit of 50,000. 
"It would be nice to get there," Elway said Wednesday. "''d like to get there, but the bottom line is I'd like to win the football game. I hate talking about chickens before they hatch." 
There was a time in Elway's career when 50,000 yards may have seemed unattainable. Slowed by Dan Reeves' run-first philosophy for the first 10 years of his career, Elway averaged 3,022 yards a season. 
In the five full seasons since Reeves was fired as Broncos coach in 1992, Elway has averaged 3,690 yards through the air. 
"It's hard to fathom getting that many yards," Elway's backup, Bubby Brister, said. "It's just an unbelievable number. He may go more than that if he plays another year or two. He might get 60." 
Don't count on it. 

Elway deliberated long and hard during the summer as he tried to decide whether to return for a 16th season. He has not closed the door on a 17th year, but the 60,000-yard mark may as
, 
well be 100,000. 
When reminded that Denver coach Mike Shanahan said 60,000 yards sounds a lot better than 50,000, Elway said: "I know. He can take over." 

Wonten's Volleyball 
turf toe and was doubtful for the opener. 
Kramer did start and has thrown all but one of Chicago's passes this season, a halfback option by Edgar Bennett. Though 
Stenstrom hasn't played, he said he's taken about 35 p~lrclmt of the snaps in practice in the last few weeks. Between that and the time he got earlier. he feels ready to go. 
"The more work I get in prac­tice, the more prepared I fe~;JI," he said. "I feel like I know what the guys are doing, where the breaks are going to be, where the ball need!) to be put. So I feel very comfortable going out there and executing the offense and helping the team win." 
Kramer's knee started bother­ing him about a month ago dur­ing practice the week of the Detroit game. He had an MRI, but nothing showed up. The fol­lowing week, in the game against the Arizona Cardinals, he was tackled and injured the shoulder. 
He continued playing, but the pain wouldn't go away. "(The knee) was swollen, stiff all the time. Just uncomfort-
Since taking over as coach in 1995, Shanahan has helped accelerate Elway's drive to 50,000, implementing a West Coast offense and sur­rounding him with a receiving corps that includes Shannon Sharpe, Rod Smith and Ed McCaffrey. 
The three have helped Elway pass for 1,076 yards in five games this season. Elway left two of those games early because of injuries, temporar­ily delaying his quest to join Marino, who has passed for 56,546 yards since coming into the league with Elway in 1983. 
"I don't really think John set out to pass for 50,000 yards or 300 touchdowns," Sharpe said. "But when you're the first pick in the draft and you come in as highly touted as he was, there's a lot of pressure. But he's handled it quite well. He's put up some big numbers." Cincinnati coach Bruce Coslet is aware of Elway's pending mile­stone. He just hopes the Bengals can postpone the celebration for another week. 
"I hope he doesn't go over 100,000 against us in one day," Coslet said. "The way I judge these players is their productivity over a long period of time. You see guys come into the league, have two or three good years and then you really don't hear from them again. Well, John's done it over so many years. He's just fantastic." 
Ideally, Elway said he would like to reach 50,000 at home against San Diego on Nov. 8. If the Broncos are leading comfortably at Cincinnati this weekend, don't be surprised to 
see him on the sidelines within 
reach  of  the  
mark.  
"I  hope  that  

scenario exists," Shanahan said. "I would like to see John break the record at Mile High if pos­sible." 
able," he said. "(The shoulder) kept getting irritated, tired, sore. Never having had a shoul­der problem before, that was probably the most diflicult. hav­ing to throw through that kind of discomfort." 
"I didn't really practice a whole bunch last week," he added. "I kept trying to keep the irritation down and play Sunday." 
With the bye week, however, Bream said this was a good time to try and get Kramer healthy. 
"It's just another thing that while we have the week off, we want to try and take care of this," Bream said. "We didn't want to get into the rest of the season and have him miss any time' if there was a problem." 
If the MRI on his shoulder shows a problem, Kramer said he doesn't want to have any surgery until after the season. After starting 0-4, the Bears have won two straight and three of their last four, and Kramer's having one of the best years of his career. 
He has completed 60 percent of his passes and thrown for 
1.823 yards and nine touch­downs, and his 83.1 quarter-
ADOPTION 
ABC'S, 1,2,3'S, AND CLIMBING TREES. CARING COUPLE IS SEEKING A BABY TO LOVE & CHERISH. LET US HELP YOU THROUGH THIS DIFFI­CULTTIME. EXPENSES PAID. 
Joan & Bill-1-800-311-7663 
occer Women's 
Men's 




Basketball 

Friday, Oct. 30th 5:00pm 
Friday, Oct. 30th 

back rating is fifth-best in the trainers knew about Kramer's NFC. aches and pains. he did his best 
"It's limited what I could do to keep it quint from evnryone during the week," Kramer said else. of the injuries. "I haven't been Even somP of' his teammates 100 percent so I think at this wen1 surprisPd when tlwy hnard point, it's giving me a good he had surgery. chance to come back and be full Kramer shrugged it off; saying strength for tne rest of the sea­it wasn't anyonn's business. son." Especiall-y not opposing 
While Wannstedt and the defenses. 


San Francisco looks to overtake Packers 
Associated Press 

SANTA CLARA, Calif. 
Turnovers, overly conserva­tiveplay and just plain bad starts have all figured in the San Francisco 49ers' four­game losing streak to the Green Bay Packers. 
San Francisco coach Steve Mariucei wants to attack those problems head-on Sunday when the teams meet at Lambeau Field in a rematch of last season's NFC champi­onship game. 
San Francisco (6-1) has been ousted from the playoffs by the Packers (5-2) in each of the last three years, most recently a 23-10 decision in last year's NFC title game. 
Hamstrung by Fritz Shurmur's confusing defensive schemes and unable to contain Brett Favre, the 49ers have never even held a lead in any of those postseason meetings. 
They have committed 11 turnovers in the playoff games to.just one for Green Bay and been outscored 108-61. 
The closest game was a 1996 regular season contest in which Green Bay defeated the 49ers 23-20 in overtime. · 
Former coach George Seifert, in what he later acknowledged was a tactical 

T
his year marks the fiftieth anniversary of the Uni­versal Declaration of Human Rights, which was adopted by the United Nations General Assem­bly on December 19, 1948. Such an important docu­ment deserves to be celebrated, and that is what the local chapter of the United Nations Assodation of the U.S.A. and Saint Mary's College are intending to do. 
You are cordially invited to be our guest at this celebration. 
all human rights • Achoral reading of the Declaration for all • Musical performances 
• Acommemorative response
FIFTIETH • A reception will follow the program

ANNIVERSARY OF THE UNIVERSAL 
7:30p.m.

DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS Sunday, November I st Little Theatre • Moreau Hall Saint Mary's College 
1948~1998 
blunder, left the Packers an opening by passing up a shot at the end zone and settling for a chip-shot Iield goal in the last couple of minutes of regu­lation. 
Brett Favre then drove the Packers to the tying lield goal and they kieked another to win it. 
Green Bay has shown some vulnerability to an aggressive passing game, giving up brtter than 400 yards in the air in a 37-24 loss to Minnesota, and Mariucci said the 49ers are in a much better position to pur­sue a wide-open gameplan. 
Jerry Rice is back aftnr missing last season's NFC title game while reeovering from a knee injury. IIis return gives the 49ers a triple threat at receiver with Stokes and Terrell Owens· that has helped San Fmncisco lead the league in offense. 
Garrison Hearst also is healthy. 
He missed a month last year because of a broken collar­bone and was ineffective when he made his return in the con­ference championship. 
Steve Young, still looking for his first victory a·gainst the Packers, also missed one of the four losses and most of another with injuries. 

Thursday, Oct. 29th 7:OOpm 
vs. Wisconsin
7:30pm 

.. vs. Oral Roberts 
Sunday, Nov. 1st 1:00pm 
Blue & Gold

Saturday, Oct. 31st 7:OOpm 
vs. Syracuse
Scrimmage

vs. Syracuse 
Men's 

Friday, Oct. 30th 7:30pm 
Men's Tennis 
vs. West Virginia 
Friday, Oct. 30th 8:00pm vs. Baylor 

--~--------~ 
. I 
Thursday, October 29, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 23 
• NATIONAL fOOTBALL lEAGUE 
Watters earns $13 million contract despite recent slump 


Associated Press 
KIHKLAND. Wash. The Seattle Seahawks gave 
Hicky Watters $13 million  to  
add  his  running talonts  to  
Warren Moon's passing.  

Al'tor SIWI111 games, it isn't working. 
Moon might miss his sm~ond Ctlllsncutive start this week lwcausn of two cracked ribs and Seattle's running game is sputtnring. 
"I'm not disappointed in Hicky's play," coach Dennis Erickson said Wndnesday. "lUcky's played good. When lw's had somn aroas to run, lw's run mal well." 
Not wnll enough. though. Going into a Sunday night honw game against tho Oakland Baidnrs (5-2). the Seahawks arc 4-3 after escap­ing with a victory in San Diego last week. 
They rank 22nd in the NFL 
• SOCCER 
Lightning kills 11 Congolese players 
Associated Press 
KINSHASA, Congo 

Eleven soccer players were struck by lightning and killed during a w1wknnd game, and invnstigators arn considering 
whnther  witchcraft  was  
involved, the Congoleso  news  
agnncy reportml.  

More than 30 otlwr peopln, most standing on the sidelines, w1~rn njun~d. 
None of the injuries is 
on offense and 18th in rush­ing. 
"I feel good. I feel healthy. I feel like I'm running hard. But we're trying to get things going right now as an offense," Watters said after Wednesday's practice. 
Watters, held to a season­low 32 rushing yards on 18 carries against the Chargers, is averaging 3.8 yards and has run for two touchdowns. lie 
has  two  100-yard rushing  
games  - giving him 23 in his  
career  - with his third pro  

team but hasn't had a perfor­mance like that since Week 3. 
In addition. he's caught 22 short passes for 131 yards, including five for 56 yards from backup quarterback John Friesz in San Diego. 
"We think we can run the ball when we have to," Erickson ·said. "I have confi­dence that we can." 
Said Watters: "I can look in 
the mirror and say, 'Hey, you're doing all you can for this team.' That's all I can do. 
"Sure. it's very frustrating, but I don't think it's just frus­trating for me. It's frustrating 
'THEY'RE TRYING TO 
USE MY TALENT ••• I 

THINK IT'S JUST A MAlTER 
OF TIME BEFORE IT ALL 
COMES TOGETHER.' 
RICKY WAITERS 
SEAHAWKS' RUNNING BACK 

for the whole offense." 
The Seahawks -and Erickson -bet a lot of owner Paul Allen's millions to bring Watters to Seattle. With pres­sure to get the Seahawks into the playoffs, Erickson knows the Seahawks' offense needs to improve dramatically in the final nine weeks. 
Watters is a durable 6-foot­1, 217-pounder who has start­ed in 71 consecutive games. lie's also 29 and in his eighth season as a workhorse back in the league. 
The Seahawks picked Watters over free agent Na.trone Means and gave him a four-year contract that included a $5 million signing bonus. 
This week, Watters ranks ninth in the AFC, while Means, now of the Chargers, is second in tho conference with 800 rushing yards, 278 more than Watters. 
"They're trying to use my talent," Watters said. "They're trying to get me the ball on offense. I think it's just a mat­ter of time before it all comes together." 
Watters will see an old friend across the sidelines this week in first-year Haiders 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 

One Day Table Tennis Tournament -Signups begin Thursday, October 29 for this singles tournament. All games will be playnd on Saturday, NOVEMBER 7, 1998 at tho HSRC between 11 :OOam and 6:00pm. Sign-up at RecSports by November 5 at 6:00p.m or calll-6100 for more information. Space is limited. 
Fac/Staff/Family Tennis Clinic -Bring your own racquet to the Eck Tennis Pavilion for this FHEE clinic presented by the Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Teams. Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations hightlight this event from 6:00-7:30pm on Wednesday, NOVEMBER 18. Don't forget your TENNIS SHOES! No advance registration necessary. Call HecSports at 1-6100 for more infor­mation. 
Student Tennis Clinic -Come join the Men's and Women's Varsity Tennis Team for Stroke Analysis and Playing Situations at this FHEE clinic on Monday, NOVEMBER 16, 6:00-7:30pm. Bring your own racquet and TENNIS SHOES to the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
head coach Jon Gruden, who was his offensive coordinator for three years in Philadelphia. Or maybe Gruden is an old enemy. 
Gruden and Watters had their share of problems. Watters wanted the ball more than Gruden wanted to give it to him at times. After last sea­son. the Eagles elected not to try to re-sign Watters. 
Gruden managed to say thn right things by tolophone to tho Seattle media on Wednesday. 
"I think lUcky is still a great back," he said. "In my opinion, he's still one of the elite backs in all of football. Nothing's changed. He's still a great player. 
"All tho success we had offensively in Philadelphia was centered around Hicky~ I appreciate all he did for me as a coach." 

THE RULES: 

1. 
Thursday (first day of sale) for ND/SMC/HC only. 

2. 
Tickets are S18 with a valid student ID. 

3. 
Two tickets may be purchased per ID; two IDs per person. 

4. 
Tickets go on sale at 9AM at LaFortune Info Desk. 

5. 
Tickets, if any remain, for the general public go on sale Friday, October 30 at LaFortune Info Desk. 

6. 
The concert is Wednesday, November 11 at Stepan Center. 


another concert event brought to you by 
1," 

believed life-threatening. 
The lightning bolt killed all the players on the home team in the village of Bena Tshadi in the province of Eastern Kasai. 
The opposing players from nearby Basangana village were said to have escaped injury. 
The agency report Tuesday could not be independently confirmed. 
Sorcery is often used in the region in an attempt to influ­ence soccer games. 
Because only home team players died, there was specu­lation witchcraft was involved. In west and central Africa, witchcraft is often offered as an explanation for natural phe­nomena and illness. 
The score was 1-1 when the lightning struck. 
In South Africa last weekend, six soccer players were hurt when lightning struck the field. 
~--­
-----~-~-­

page 24 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, October 29, 1998 
Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament 
Monday, 11:30 pm until Tuesqay, 10:00 pm, St. Paul's Chapel, Fisher Hall Fridays, 12 noon until 4:45 pm; Lady Chapel, Basi.lica 
of the Sacred Heart 

Freshman Retreat #19 (~pvember 13-14) Sign-Up 
Monday, October 26 to Novemb~( 9, Sign-Up 103 Hesburgh Library, 112 Badirf Hall or see your Rector !!! 
Targeted Dorms: Farley, Rshtitr,'floward, Keenan, 
Keough, O'Neill, Pasquerilla W  St. Edward's and  
Walsh  
Emmaus Kick-Off.  All  lcome  

Thursday, October 29, 7:0Q.9;Q()pfl),. LaFortune Ballroom ·Atif' 
Afrlcentrlc Spirltuallb Reception r.r::/ \. 
Thursday, October 29, 8:00 pm, ND LaFortune Student Center 
Liturgical ChoU concertt o 
Friday, October 301 8:1&:pm, Sa Heart .,y! 
Folk Choir con·Bi~ 
the Santiago Orpha:nages 

Saturday, Oc:tober 31, 10:00 am­. d d ttl?:}
Lm enwoo ··.. .>.•> . /.'•· 

Freshman Retreat #19 Te 
Sunday, November 1, 12:00 noon-8:00 p 
Hall .. 
Re}olceJ BlacW,~~-tt,bilc .. ·· 

Celebrant: Rev. Tom Doyle, CSC 
·:·="«<'"··':····· .. 

Sunday, November 1, 4:00 pm, SoflrlHaH 
Dla de los Muertos Mass, followed by reception at LaFortune Ballroom Celebrant: Rev. David Scheidler, CSC 
Sunday, November 1, 1:30pm, Keenan"Stanford Chapel 
NDE Retreat #53 

Monday-Friday, November 2-6, Sign-Up 
103 Hesburgh Library 
Campus Bible Study 

Tuesday, November 3, 7:00-8:30 pm, Badin Halt Chapel 
Part 5 of a Seven·Part Series on the Gifts of the Holy Spirit: Piety by Fr. Bill Seetch, 
esc 

Wednesday, November 4, 7:oo·pm, Log Chapel 
SOLEMNITY OF ALL SAINTS 
Weekend Presiders 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Saturday, October 31 Mass 
5:00 'p.m. 
Rev. Carol F. Ebey, C.S.C. 

Sunday, November 1 Mass 
10:00 a.m. 

Most Rev. Daniel R. Jenky, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. 

Rev. Patrick M. Neary, C.S.C. 
Scripture Readings for this Coming Sunday 
1st Reading Revelation 7:2-4, 9-14 
2nd Reading 1 John 3: 1-3 
Gospel 

Let's Hear it for Parents 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
I remember when my Mom brought my eight-year-old and youngest sister, Susie, up to the first basketball game of my Freshmen year at the prep board­ing high school that my brothers and I attended. One of my new friends came up to me after the game and said, "Gee, it was great of your grand­mother to bring your little sister to the game!" I couldn't figure out what he was talking about until I realized that he thought my mother was my grand­mother. 
Now, I realize that the ten of us kids spent most of our lives beating up my Mom, either literally or figuratively for the previous twenty years, and being the eighth kid that my mother was older than the "average mom," but it didn't occur to me that anyone would ever think her to be my grandmother. In fact, my shock was so complete that it also didn't occur to me, at fourteen, that my mother might not want to hear the story of my new friend thinking she, my mother, was my grandmother. Stupidly, in hindsight, I shared the tale with her. Not that she was offended; Mom didn't get worked up about much. But I wonder now why I wasn't.. .. offended... or worked up. 
Maybe I was too young. Maybe it wasn't even that big a deal. Maybe only in hindsight can I really feel bad for all the times that I might have hurt my Mom, inadvertantly or not. Maybe it is only hindsight that has allowed me to see just how many sacrifices my mother made for me and for my siblings. Maybe it is only hindsight that allows any of us to really appreciate all that our parents have done for us. Maybe it's only hindsight that makes me want to find that kid who thought my mother was my grandmother, and smack him! Whatever the case, here comes another Parents Weekend. Another opportunity to remember the sacrifices made for us, and another of the fleet­ing opportunities to let them know just how grateful we are(... and maybe a chance to tell your Mom just how young she looks!) 
We're actually caught in that liminal period between two Parents Weekends, between our parents leaving and our roommates parents coming, or vice versa. In any case, Mom, Dad, sibs, and Rover may already be enroute! It's a weekend during which we host our parents instead of them always hosting us. It's an opportunity to welcome them to the home that they have, in many ways, made possible for us, and that we have, or are beginning to, claim as our own. 
We often speak of the Notre Dame Family. In fact, we so often speak of it that I fear the power of the image may be lessened. Nonetheless, the reality is, it isn't only you who became a part of Notre Dame when you enrolled for that first class. There was something more that happened. Mom and Dad's years of love and care had moved you to a place beyond the shelter of their home, but not beyond the shelter of their hearts. Their participation in this place is wrapped up in yours; their membership in this family is wrapped up in you. 
Although wrapped up in a football weekend, this is no less an opportunity for this Notre Dame Family to gather and to give thanks for the many bless­ings that we as a family have known. For each of us to give thanks for all the sacrifices that have been made, individually and collectively, for us to be here. 
One of the most significant ways that we, as a Catholic community, can give thanks is through the celebration of the Eucharist. The very word, "eucharist," means "thanksgiving" in Greek. I have long thought that no visit to this campus is complete without partaking in the Eucharist; I risk offending some by saying that it is more important even than that which takes place in the stadium on six Saturdays in the fall. It is, wherever we choose to partake in it, a central symbol of our shared faith, and an important moment of prayer and thanks for this family. 
Join me in giving thanks to God this weekend for the blessings that your fam­ily has known in the persons of your parents, and join me, too, in thanking God for the blessings that this larger Notre Dame family has known. And finally, help me find that kid who thought my mother was my grandmother! 

0MPUS 
MINISTRY 

..------------~---------------~---~-~--~~ ~-------~-­
-
page 25 

Thursday, October 29, 1998 
While Johnson has sm~n a majority of the passes thrown his way, fellow starter
F-ball 

Brown. who had a tfmm-high 45 catches 

Observer/John Daily 
Bobby ~rown was last year's leading receiving and has continued chipping in with grabs thrs season. In the last two games, he has totaled five catches. 
continued from page 28 
Brown Jed one of Notre Dame's deepest receiving corps in recent memory. Juniors Jay Johnson and Raki Nelson combine with sophomore Joey Getherall and tal­ented freshmen Javin Hunter and David Givens to complete the unit. 
Even tight end Jabari Holloway has played a major role in the passing game with 10 catches on the season -two for touch­downs ­
'WE 
teams were allowing us to

ranking sec­SAY IT EVERY 
do, wasn't involving nw inond on the team. DAY, WE'RE THE the o!Tnnsn during tlw first

"There's no one guy 

A.F.R.O.S. (AMERICA'S few wee~ks of tlw season " 
we're trying to get the said Brown. "In the fir~t

ball to," receivers coach fiNEST RECEIVERS ON 
few we~e ks I had to take
Urban Meyer said. "I 

SATURDAY).' pride in my bloeking ... I
mean Bobby, Joey wanted to show my coach-

Getherall, Javin Hunter -we tried to get him MALCOLM JOHNSON es and teammates that I 
the ball to him three times ... Haki Nelson early in the year, land) Jay Johnson has had some big catches. so the offense is not designed to get one guy the ball. it's just whoever happens to I)(' open on that play and the quarterback makes the right read and throws it. 
"They all want the ball," Meyer said. ''I've been around some good rece~ivers and I don't know if we have the gn~at. great one but I'll tell you what. there's five or six guys that really play hard and try hard and work together." 
The leading receiver thus far has been split end Malcolm Johnson, who boasts 25 receptions, including six for 82 yards and a touchdown against Army. 
Johnson is a huge target, (6-5, 215), who has had a knack for getting open all year. lie said he believes strongly in his fellow wideouts, and attributes much of his success his teammates. 
"We say it every day, we're the 
A.F.H.O.S (America's Finest Heceivers on Saturday)." said Johnson. "We believe that from the bottom of our heart that from top to bottom there's not a better unit in the country. We maintain that closeness and we all push each other every day." 

last year. has become~ mon~ involved. In ~he past two games, Brown had 5 grabs, mcl_uding a critical 35-yard reception agamst Army, in which his fumble was recovered in the end zone by Johnson, putting tlw Irish ahead 17-I 0 rwar the end of the third quarter. 
In addition to his catching abilities, Hr?wn h~s also contributed his blocking sktlls wrth the rr~-birth of' the~ option attack. proving h~;·.~ a team player. 
I ho schomes. what 

was a competitor. WIDE RECEIVER Although tlw hall wasn't 
coming to me, I was gonna complete r~very single down and I was gonna make plays, help makP plays hap­
JWn through blocking." 
Since lw arrivPd on campus last sum­mer. the 5-foot-7 (;!' tlw r a II has IH• P n infused with com1wtitivP spirit. Aftl'r an injury-ridc!Pn first yPar. which saw him miss thrPP ganws artPr hauling in fivP catches in tlw sPason opPrwr, (;pt)wrall has oncr• again rdurnPd to I00 pPrn~nt and has r.ontributed with eight ratclws thus far. 
Ilis combination of r~xceptional SllPPd along with toughness gives tlw Irish a big­play rece~iver who is capable of brPaking free from a defr~nsivn back for a long touchdown. 
Echoing the snntinwnts of his tr~am­mates. Getherall has tlw utmost confi­dence in his quarterback. 
"We all know he !Jackson I can throw the deep ball, the short ball," (;etlwrall said. "lie's a great player all around." 
Any team's success depends on the play of its quarterback. 
Jackson has proven morn than capablo of leading this team. whether running the option, handing ofT to his running backs, 
• NEW YORK CITY MARATHON 
Marathon showcases transplant recipients 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK 
Ketil Moe is not sure he'll make it to the finish line of the New York City Marathon. Simply making it to the starting line will be a huge accomplishment. 
He is. after all. running with a new set of lungs. 
Moe is one of six transplant recipients who plan to run the marathon on Sunday, and he most likely is the ftrst lung recipient to tackle a course this long, according to Dick Traum, president of the Achilles Track Club for disabled athletes. 
Moe, a 31-year-old diabetic, had to suck oxygen and use a wheel­chair before his double lung transplant in the summer of 1997. "If I can get through the race, 1 know that I have my disease under control," he said. 
Speaking from his home in Kresteansand, Norway, Moe worried that a lingering bacterial infection might prevent him from run­ning. 
His doctors warned him not to do it. But they also warned him about many of the 12 marathons he had ran before his transplant, races he sometimes entered with bleeding lungs. 
This time he plans to run slowly, with his doctor, his physical therapist and two Norwegian champions -former marathoner Grete Waitz and Johann Olav Koss, an Olympic gold medalist speedskater. 
"I hope I will survive," he said with a slightly wheezing laugh. "It will be the toughest raee ever." 
Running a marathon is not a good idea for most transplant patients. said Dr. Niloo Edwards, surgieal director of heart trans­plants at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York. But those healthy enough to do it are a symbol of hope for sick people leery of the surgery. 
"It's a testament to how well transplantation works in the 1990s and to really how much quality of life ... the gift of these organs brings to these patients," Dr. Edwards said. 
For Donald Arthur. the transplant itself led him to the marathon. He began race walking to counter the bone atrophy resulting from his antirejection drugs. 
V-ball 
continued from page 28 

matches, and blocking in all matches. 
Senior middle blocker Lindsay Treadwell is near the top of the league standings in hitting and blocking. Sophomore out­side hitter leads the Irish in kills per game, and was named Big East player of the week last week. 
Brown is 199-68 since coming to Notre Dame from her alma mater Arizona State in 1991, and has led the Irish to six straight appearances in the NCAA tournament and seven con­ference titles. 
During her time as Irish coach, Brown has been named 1995 
Big East coach of the year, Midwest Collegiate Conference 
coach of the year four times. and region/district coach of the 
year four times. 

• NATIONAL fOOTBAll lEAGUE 
Grbac apologizes to team for criticism 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. 
Elvis Grbac said he's sorry. His Kansas City teammates said it's no problem. 
So the player dissension that 
seemed to be erupting after the Chiefs' second straight loss is 
over almost before it started. 
Grbac, who singled out sev­eral players for criticism after Monday night's 20-13 loss to Pittsburgh plunged the Chiefs to 4-3, said he apologized indi­vidually and then had a clear­the-air team meeting on Wednesday. 
"I think I disappointed the entire organization, and proba­bly the community," Grbac said. "I feel sorry for that." 
An angry and frustrated Grbac, 0-2 after coming back from a shoulder injury, had said, "The guys who have to make plays on this team have 

_.. to start realizing they've got to make plays. The Tony Gonzalezes, the Tony Richardsons, Donnell Bennett. It's got to be a combination of guys making plays." Grbac, who threw two inter­ceptions and lost a fumble in the game, also faulted himself. 
But he came under intense media and fan criticism on Tuesday. 
"I didn't sleep at all last night. It was eating at me," he said. "I was in bed after watch­ing the news about 12 o'clock and I wanted to start calling the guys at home." 
Gonzalez, a second-year tight 
Hockey 
continued from page 28 
offensively," Dhadphale said. "At a crucial time, I have to be one of the guys, along with Brian Urick and Ben Simon, who have to create that chance or score that big goal for us, especially on the power play." 
"He scores by going where the puck is, which sounds easy but it's certainly not," said Poulin. "He anticipates well and he gets to open ice welt, too. He creates his own space out there." 
In addition to becoming the team's main man on the power play, another facet of Aniket's game began to develop late last season -his physical play. With a 6-foot-3, 200 pound frame, the senior certainly has nature on his side. In a conference characterized by physical play, Dhadphale has become one of its premiere players, and 
opposing players and coaches have begun to take notice. 
"[Aniket] gets a tremendous amount of respect [around the league]. there's no question," said Poulin. "He's a big guy who is now using his physi­cal attributes. There's never been any question about his ability to score goals." 
In addition to his continuing improvement as a hockey player, Dhadphale is focused on acade­mics.During the 1997-98 season, Aniket received special mention honors on the CCHA's all-academ­ic team, along with current teammate Forrest Karr and former teammate Lyle Andrusiak. In fact, it was not just a promising hockey program which brought Dhadphale to Notre Dame, it was also the school's superior academics. 
"Between academics and athletics, Notre Dame offers one of the best mixes you can get," Dhadphale explaim~d. 
The only missing link in Aniket's Notre Dame career has been a team both talented and experi­enced for him to lead, resulting in three sub-.500 seasons. However. Aniket and his teammates have a chance to make some noise not only in this year's CCHA playoffs, but perhaps in the NCAA tournament -a place Notre Dame hockey has never been before. 
"A top-four finish [in the CCHA] is definitely our goal, especially with our [5-0] start," said Dhadphale. "We're thinking home ice first, but if we continue to play as we have, [winning the CCHA] is something that could happen." 
This year's team seems to be developing not only the physical skills, but the mental toughness to win, a credit to head coaeh Dave Poulin. Poulin has instilled a certain confidence in his players to win the close games that had previously slipped away. 
"Sophomore year we had those tough losses," Dhadphale explained. "[Coach Poulin] has certain­ly emphasized mental toughness, and we're becoming more competitive every year. We're a more veteran team this year, so we should win those close games." 
With the right coaching and plenty of hard work. Dhadphale has a chance to play hockey on the sport's biggest stage -the NHL. But what it may boil down to is Aniket's desire, which Poulin cer­tainly believes he has. 
"To reach the next level, [Aniket] has to continue to improve in all aspects of his game," the fourth­year coach said. "He has filled in gaps in his game, like physical play and defensive play. He just has to increase each level, and he wants to. He wants to be a hockey player, and that's a major part of reaching that next level." 
It claims good people. 
TREAT DEPRE~SION 
#1 Cause of Suicide 
http://www.save.org 

end who dropped and ran the wrong way once when he was wide open in the end zone, said Grbac's criticism "was nothing compared to the tongue­lashing I got from my mom." 
"The thing you've got to understand is Elvis is a win­ner. He's our captain. I trust Elvis," Gonzalez said. "We're all on the same page. 

LASALLE BOOKSTORE 
Your source for the best in theological and philosophical books-we can special order any book you need! 
Great Books, Great Deals! 
20% OFF EVERY TITLE OCTOBER 26-30. 
THE LASALLE BOOKSTORE • 234-0003 
237 N. Michigan St. (at LaSalle), downtown S.B. Open 10-5, Mon-Fri., lasalle@michiana.org 
Always discounts for NDISMC faculty & students! 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBAll 
Mets ink Leiter for $32 million 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 

A few minutes after AI Leiter walked into Shea Stadium's Diamond Club, New York Mets general manager Steve Phillips had a novel idea. 
"I think we're contemplating doing this every Monday, Wednesday and Friday," he said as the room filled with laughter. 
Two days earlier, Phillips was at the same podium to announce a record $91 million, seven-year contract with Mike Piazza. On Wednesday, he announced a $32 million. four­year deal with Leiter. 
Now that the Mets have retained their top two free agent-eligible players, they'll begin concen­trating on new faecs. A trade for the 
Los Angeles Dodgers' Bobby Bonilla has been mentioned and they might be interested in free agent outfielder Brian Jordan. 
Phillips and the rest of the organization know New York needs more offense. 
"It doesn't take a baseball genius to watch the games last year and figure out we really scratched and clawed for every run," Leiter said. "Clearly we need some more thump." 
Leiter, a 33-year-old left-hander. went 17-6 with a 2;47 ERA. leading Mets starters in victo­ries and ERA. He's from the New Jersey shore and liked being back in the area, calling it "the biggest and best city in the world." 
"''m playing for a team I truly rooted for grow­ing up," he said. 
The Mets have decided to upgrade their pay­roll in an effort to get to the playoffs next sea­son, and re-signing Piazza and Leiter were the first two moves. 

Even EZ-er than 1040EZ. Introducing TPit-Fih· from the I H.S If you are !)inglc and filed Form \0-\-0EZ last year, you can filC' ~our tax rcturn 111 tt•n minute~ b~ phont'. Anytinw. Check ycHH laX booklrt fuf mformation ~~ Depar1men1 ollhe Treasury ~&!/I Internal Revenue Service iiiTeleFile Changin~ for good. It's free. It'~ fast. h works.  




page 27 The Observer • TODAY Thursday, October 29, 1998 
SCOTT ADAMS 

LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 


l'f1 NoT (10/NG
OKA'I zuco, 

r HA.D A REALLY -(O (:/) OV1?' 
ARE '/OU READY 
8,4[) HALLo\./EEN otic£, AND r 

And so to celehrate 
REFUSED IO EvER I lalloween our trio set 
C£Lc JSRATE' tN 

out to find costumes. 
AGAIN. 
I 

L---------_1.~~-_::~=-::=---------....::.-.., 
FOXTROT 
DAN SULLIVAN 

E)UT IF OU DRESS_ WELL r u~ yov·u BE ABL-t:. 
GuEss r 

-ro QO --ro A CAN FlNb wrrH FR££ SoME.l'HI/V~ fo \-lEAR. 
L-:l~J...l.I...Lc...J:.:::::t..Ll::::::U-1----...::..U..------1 
BILL AMEND 


DILBERT 
E

DOGBERT THE CON5Ul TI\NT 
0 

~--------------~~ 
OUR A.O CA.r-\1'1\IGN FEA.IURlNG PHONY SlNCERH'< IS 
WORKING. 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 31 Hemming and hawing
1--World Service (radio 
34 Charles Lamb, provider) to readers 
36 Exhibits scorn (novelty item) 37 Rot caused by a "My Life on 
4 --Pet 
bark beetles Trial" author 40 Renaissance type
13 Mine product 41 Course
14 Dog: paw:· horse:----42 -Alte (Adenauer)
15 Lacking, with "of" 43 Pulsate 
44 Zarro's mari<.s

16 High-nsk game 46 Leg bones 19 Plan 
50 Message on .3 Wonderland 20 "-to differ" 

21Coral­
cake 22 Gaze 
54 Pac. 's 23 Kind of ac1d counterpart 25Dumb--ox 57 Beach, 27 Republican 
basically V.IP. Dick 58 Farmer's land 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
H.:..+-=4==-.j 24 Manitoba Indian R"-+0+'"-1 26 One of the Waughs 
0
.. 
@ 
"
E
.. 
'0.. 
::: 
0 
:.: 

IN \'HI\SE TW01 WE'LL INTRODUCE OUR 
NEWEST PRODUCT, 
TH£ INVISl~LE 
ROBOT. 

59 Montreal denizens 62 Distance on a radar screen 63 Peter Lorre role Mr.--­64 Deception 65 Australian export 66 Effect of auto exhaust 67 Actor Mineo 
DOWN 
1 Tennis's Becker 2 Main thrust 3 Jai alai basket 4 Showy-flowered 
shrub 5 1956-57 Wimbledon champion Lew 6 Charged particle 1 Pertaining to the second­largest 
continent BGood herder 9 First lady 
10 Plenty 11 Miller beer 12 Brainstorm 15 Piece lor two 17 Word repeated 
alter "Que" tBAward bestowed by Queen Eliz. 23 Deep blue 

28 "Canterbury Tales" drink 29 Gaelic 30 North Sea feeder 31 Handle text 32 Dr. Westheimer 33 Hollywood Boulevard sight 35 Electric guitar hookup 36 Location 38 Congeal 39 Stupor 45 Hindu garment 
47 Scornful cries 54 Opposite of a 48 Co. name buzz cut ending 55 Pitfall 49 Monroe's 56 Moon of Jupiter successor 
58 60's-70's 51 Dabbling ducks Japanese P.M. 52 Craze so Zilch 53 Collectible Ford 61 Robespierre, e.g. 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75¢ per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Richard Dreyfuss, Kate Jackson, Winona Ryder, Fanny Brice 
Happy Birthday: Emotional issues will cause some problc111s for you this year if you try to ignore them. If you arc strong and take a stand, you will find that doors will open and your chance to be successful will be en­hanced. You need to let go of the past and not let anyone hold you back. You must be concerned with the future and all the possibilities that exist for you. Your numbers: 8, II, 26, 35, 44,49 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Your emotions concerning someone youwork with will be erratic. Be cautious not to go overboard in expressing your feelings. Hidden secrets can eas­ily be revealed. 0000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): You can make gains by dealing with indi­viduals from distant places or those connected with institutional environ­ments. Don't make large donations or lend cash to friends or relatives. 00 GEMINI (May 21-June 20): Be creative in your pursuits. Avoid getting involved in gossip that in tum could ruin your own reputation. Confusion concerning your direc­tion is likely. Be precise in your communication. 00000 CANCER (June 21-July 22): Trawl will be your best bet where work­related matters are concerned. You will learn valuable information if you listen to a trusted friend. Start courses that offer greater knowledge in your chosen field. 000 LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): Property investments will run smoothly today. Take a good look at your personal papers concerning life insurance, your will and legal documents that 
Birthday Baby: You're always questioning everything. Your u1cJllisitl\ · mind will lead you to discoveries throughout your life that will result in ma1• · changes and satisfaction. You are a pioneer who will stop at nothing in ordc•r t find out the truth. 
I 
• OF INTEREST 

The Notre Dame Glee Club -Under the direction of Daniel Stowe, presents its fall concert tonight at 8 p.m. in Washinton Hall. The ND/SMC community is asked to attend tonight's concert. The concert is free and optm to the public. Please call 631-6201 for more informa­tion. 
Holy Cross Associates will be holding an information session today at 4 p.m. at the Center for Social Concerns. Fell free to sop by to pick up an application. ask questions or hear more about HCA's Chile pro­gram. 
Graduate School Workshop is designed for· seniors interested in graduate school. Topies to be discuessed will include: identifying an appropriate course of study. securing letters of' recommendation, writing an effective letter of intent and locating funding sources. Speakers indudc Dr. Terry Akai, associate dean of the graduate school and Dr. Peter Diffiey, associate dean of the graduate school. The workshop will be held today from 4-5:30 p.m. in the Foster Room of LaFortune. The event is sponsored by the Graduate School and the Office of Career and Placement Services. 
Wanted: Reporters and photographers. Join The Observer staff. 
involve joint finances. 000 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): Soci" events that include colleagues will [,, beneficial if you mingle with supt'fl ors. Relationships may he a tad em< • tiona! today. Refrain from sayirn· things you'll regret later. 000 
LIBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): l'inJn cial matters relating to work can b• resolved. Don't be evasive about you• intentions. Yoi.J can enlist the aid "' allies to get jobs completed on tinw 
00000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): N,., romantic relationships will deveiPI' through social gatherings, sports "' fih1ess dubs. You can do things will children today that will help l'"' understand one another better. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 211 Your domestic scene may be troubh · some if you have neglected thnS<' )'«t love. Make amt•nds by spc•nding tint' listening to their complaints cll11 promise to make a concerted effort t· improve the situation. 0000 
CAPRICORN (f)ec. 22-)an. 14t 

Your creative talents wtll surf,,, 
through your response tL' situation' 
A sensitive approJch will enabl<' l'"' 
to appeal to those you love for h<•l1• 
Pleasure trips willl'll' fa\'orablc•. 000 
AQUARIUS <Jan. 20-Feb. IR) 

Your creative abilities \\'ill bring Y"' 
some financial gains. Take your attril• 
utes to the limit. Your efforts wtl 
enhance your reputation in the "'"'' 
force. 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Ynu· 

best efforts will surface when Y"' 
work in cooperation with someon• 
creative. Romantic partnerships c.11 
develop through participation in pn• 
jects. Travel for business or pll'aStrl 
will be beneficial 000 
I 
.. 

The Observer 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary's Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompany­ing form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer and mail to: P.O. Box Q 
-

Notre Dame, IN 46556 0 Enclosed is $85 for one academic year 0 Enclosed is $45 for one semester 
Name ____________________________________________ 
-

Address _______________________________________ 
City ____________ State _____ Zip._______ 

~~----­
.. 
' 

• John Elway is dos­
• 
Ba.Seball great Joe 


• 
St. Louis Rams DiMaggio will be hos­


ing in on being one of rookie linebacker will 
... 
only two QBs to reachpitalized for another 
face charges for his three weeks. 
50,000 yards passing. 
involvement in a fatal car crash.

PORTS 
p.22
p.IB 

page 28 
Thursday, October 29, 1998 
• HocKEY 
Dhadphale key to veteran leadership for Irish icers 
By TED BASSANI Sporrs Wrirer 
In arguably the best hockey conference in the nation, Aniket Dhadphale's name is easily rec­ognized by many, although prop­erly pronounced by few (ah­KNEE-ket dod-FAL-ee). 
Dhadphale, a Marquette, Mich. native, was selected in the lOth round of the 1994 NHL entry draft by the San Jose Sharks, fol­lowing a midget hockey career
.. 
that saw him finish as the all­time leading scorer in Marquette AAA history (1 05 goals in 107 games). The senior left wing also played a year of junior hockey with the Stratford Cullitons of the Midwest junior B league, where he amassed 64 points (31G, 33A) in the 1994-95 sea­son. 
At the outset of his Notre Dame career, Dhadphale played his game in the offensive zone, as his team's main goal scorer. But as a Notre Dame freshman, he would need to do more than play offense to earn playing time under [then] first-year Irish coach Dave Poulin. 
• FooTBALL 
"He was fairly close to being one-dimensional in terms of being a goal scorer when he got here ... He really had to learn to play defense," said Poulin. 
Dhadphale's goal scoring tal­ents came into full view during his freshman season, when he led the Irish with 13 goals. But the sophomore jinx took its toll on Aniket, who tallied only five goals the following year. 
Last season, Dhadphale and the Irish program had a break­out year. Dhadphale led his team with 25 goals, a mark good enough for fifth in the CCl-IA. His 12 power play goals were third best in the conference and fifth best in the nation. Since the power play is so important at every level of hockey, being the go-to guy is certainly a position that carries a lot of pressure. 
But, being a senior and having been elected alternate captain by his teammates, Aniket under­stands and welcomes that pres­sure. 
"One of the things I have to do [as alternate captain] is lead Aniket Dhadphale led the Irish last year with 25 goals and this year's success depends on his leadership.
see HOCKEY/ page 26 

Confidence powers receiving corps 
By TIM CASEY  With players like Jerome  This year is no exception, as  
Sporrs Wrirer  Bettis, Reggie  Brooks  and  Autry Denson is on pace for  
Ricky Watters  in the  past  another 1000-yard season and  
The success of a Notre Dame decade, the tradition o f the  will likely break the career  
team is usually defined by its Irish running ba ck has been  rushing record along the way.  
running game.  well documented.  But as of late, the aerial  
attack of quarter­ 
back Jarious  
Jackson has come  
into the spotlight.  
Jackson and his core  
group of receivers  
have stepped up and  
proven that this  
Irish offense is  
multi -dimensional.  
"Jarious has  
developed, our wide  
receivers have  
developed, I think  
we're using the tight  
end in the passing  
game," coach Bob  
--­ Davie said after the  
Army game. "The  
overall execution of  
our passing game  
was good.  
"We've had play­ 
ers develop enough  
in our passing game  
that we're not going  
...  to just be stubborn,"  
Davie added. "We're  
going to take advan­ 
tage of our balance  
and throw the foot­ 
ball."  
Seven receivers  
have seen action in  
most of the games  
- this year, each  
bringing something  
different to a team  
which has won 11 of  
its last 14 games.  
Veterans Malcolm  
Johnson and Bobby  
- Malcolm Johnson, with 25  receptions this season, is Notre Dame's biggest target.  The Ob server/ John Daily see F-BALL/ page 25  

• VOLlEYBAll 

Irish set to halt Oral Roberts' win streak 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sporrs W rirer 

To grab her 200th win as Notre Dame's head volleyball coach, Debbie Brown must guide her squad past a tough Oral Roberts team with a long winning streak. 
Oral Roberts, having won 17 straight contests, is a familiar opponent for the Irish. The team knocked Notre Dame out of the NCAA tournament in 1996, but the Irish won revenge at home last year, defeating the Golden Eagles in five games. 
Oral Roberts climbed to 19-4 on the season by defeating Southwest Missouri State Tuesday in three games. The Golden Eagles are undefeated in the Mid-Continent Conference at 8-0 and have defeated Duke, Valparaiso and Villanova, all teams the Irish have beaten this season. Only one of Oral Roberts' four loss­
es  has come  to  an  unranked  
team (Texas Tech).  
Junior  middle  blocker  

Julianna Moser is a powerful force for the Golden Eagles, leading the team with 274 kills, a .399 season hitting percentage, 40 service aces, 19 solo blocks and 64 assisted blocks. Senior setter Debora DosSantos averages over 11 assists per game to lead the team's offense. 
"I think the main thing is that they are a very experi­enced team," said Brown. 
"Five of their six starters are foreign athletes, and a lot of times, foreigners have been playing at a very high level for a longer time than American players." 
Six of the Golden Eagles are from Brazil, and one is from Croatia. 
The Golden Eagles arc coached by Amy Farber, who led them to a 29-10 record in 1997, her f1rst season at Oral Roberts. 
The task of defeating the Golden Eagles will be tougher than usual, as the Irish will be without the service of sopho­more all-Big East setter Denise Boylan, who strained ligaments in her right elbow in practice Saturday. Transfer Michelle Graham is taking Boylan's place. Graham had 31 assists Sunday against Boston College. 
"We've done some things in practice to ehange our defense and work on blocking," said Brown. "I think it should be a good, competitive match. Most people would say that on paper, Oral Roberts has the advantage over us, so I think it's good that we're playing at home and maybe we can even that out a little bit." 
Notre Dame stands at 9-10 on the season, and 5-1 in the Big East after defeating Providence and Boston College this past weekend. The Irish lead the conference in team hitting percentage in Big East 
see V-BALL I page 26 
vs Baylor vs. West Virginia 

Saturday,2:30 p.m. Friday, 7:30p.m.
SPORTS 

~ 
Cross Country ... 
at Big East Championship 
ATA 
in Boston 
vs. Wisconsin vs. Oral Roberts 
Friday, 10:30 a.m. 

~ Friday, 5 p.m. Thursday, 7 p.m. GLANCE 










