
Dean Woo alleges hiring discrimination occurred on basis of homosexuality 
By TIM LOGAN Assistant Nrws Editor 
After more than a year of heated debatn and campus rallies, the future of the University's legal non-discrimination clause restt~d in the hands of Academic Council mmnbnrs Thursday night. 
But at their much-anticipated meeting, l'ounril nwmbers decided to postpone a vote on the propost~d amendment to add sexual orientation to the clause until thPir Nov. 17 meeting. The Council citHd a lack of definitive information on the issues of law and religion surrounding thn anwndmnnt. 
"As a voting membnr, I'd like to be as informed as possible," said Charles Kulpa. professor of biological sciences, after the meeting. "I think it's a wise decision." 
University president Father Edward Malloy proposed at the start of discus­sion that the vote be put off until next month's meeting, according to several members of the Academic Council, reserving last night's session for focused debate on the issue. 
"It's a good decision," said Lewis Hall senator Sophie Fortin when informed of the decision. Fortin co-wrote the Student Senate resolution which called on the Council to approve the change. 
"The strongest argument is definitely going to come out from [the research and debate]." Fortin said. "The more you know, the more it is going to come out that [approval] is the best decision." 
But four members of the council sepa­rately confirmed a turn of events at the meeting that could bring the clause debate closer-to-home. Carolyn Woo, dean of the College of Business Administration, disclosed that a prospec­tive faculty member was not offered employment after revealing to being a practicing homosexual in an hiring inter­view, according the four sources. 

While the full details of the incident were not relayed, Woo went on to say that the candidate was by far the most qualified applicant for the job, and that sexual practices played a substantial role in the ·qecision not to hire that individual, the sources said. 
The meeting was closed to the public; Woo was not available for comment last night, and University officials, including provost Nathan Hatch, declined to speak on the matter. 
"There is not going to be any comment on discussions that take place among Academic Council members," said Dennis Brown, associate director of Public Relations. 
But Woo's alleged disclosure adds to the complexity of debate on the merits and problems associated with adding sexual orientation to the legal clause. 
A major point of contention at the meeting, sources said, was the fact that the Catholic Church separates homosex­ual orientation -which is not opposed by Catholic teachings -and homosexual acts, which are. But the courts might not 
see COUNCIL I page 4 
·. .;.-· 

Uc•n'ttf llisfur.\1 uf St•.'twtl Orknt111 iuu Issue• at NIJ : 
,......,h~~ .... ---_,._ -..~ ........... ' ..................-. .... 
~~ 
Aug 9 7  University adopts the Spirit of Inclusion  
Mar 98  Fr. David Garrick resigns professorship in protest of ND's homosexuality policy  
May 98  Faculty Senate calls for addition of sexual orientation to non-discrimination clause  
Sept 98  StudentSenateraUsfor addition of sexual orientation to non-discrimination clause  
Oct 98  Academic Coundl votes to extend debate and more thorou,gbly researrh the issue  


The Observer/Joe Mueller 

God and science meet on good terms at ND 
By MOLLY NIKOLAS News Writer 
Although academic achievement is stressed in all disciplines. Notre Dame is first and foremost a Catholic institu­tion, praised for its adherence to tra­dition and values. Spiritual life is as vibrant and crucial to the Notre Dame experience as academics, athletics and the social experience. 
But because of its religious back­ground, many people overlook the growing number of students at Notre Dame that are pursuing degrees in the sciences. Last fall, 898 sophomores, juniors and seniors enrolled in the College of Science with another 725 in the College of Engineering. 
While members of the science fac­ulty hope the University will become more widely known as a leading sci­nntilic institution, Notre Dame is oftnn overlooked as such bncause of its type of faculty, according to physics department chair Bruce Bunknr. 
"Many of the professors at Notre Dame focus more on teaching under­graduates than working on the types of research projects that would win the school national recognition in sci­ence," Bunker said. "Undergraduate 
see RELIGION I page 4 
Challenges have existed for ages 

By MOLLY NIKOLAS News Writer 
The conflict between sciencll and religion did not originate at Notre Dame. Faithful religious believers and scientists craving mnpirical evi­dence have been challenging eac:h other for centuries, and have often not arrived at peaeef'ul condusions. 
From the Church's rejt~ction of Copernieus' heliocentric: theory and his tribulations with religious lead­ers to the publication of Darwin's theory of natural seleetion, it has seemed science and religion would never reach an understanding. 
Science has often posfJd a thnmt -real or not -to the values of religion as the antithesis of reason­ing. For years, the Church restrict-
see SCIENCE I page 4 

----------~ ---~--~­
page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 
Meet the Faces in the Crovvd 
As I walk down the cement paths here at Notre Dame. something always strikes me as odd. It is as if something magical silences all conversation that can possibly happen between humans. 
Those forces impel  Michael Revers  
people to walk forward  Assistant Systems  
with their heads hang­ Manager  
ing down ­ we get only  

brief moments of relief to say, "Hi" or 
"What's Up." to someone who may be pass­
ing by. 

We then get to our destination and find our seat in class. or walk to our room in the dorm. never realizing what a great opportu­nity we just missed. 
What opportunities? Well let me ask you this: Have you ever been in the Law Building? What, you don't know where it is? I'll give you a hint: try South Quad. 
How about this: Have you ever been in Carroll? You're right. why would you go there... But what about Zahm? Or Cavanaugh? Or Keenan? 
My point is. why not venture into those places that you're "not suppose to go to?" It is easier than you may think, and you might be surprised at who you meet. 
I think that all too often there is such a desire to find our own identity that we for­get to discover the greatest thing about this place -the identity of others. The college years are supposed to be the best ones of our lives. but not just because of huge par­ties and football weekends. 
College is great because of the people that are here. going through the tests. projects. and papers with you. 
They all have the stress of midterms. the joy of Freshmen English. and the agony of camping out for tickets (although maybe not any more). The people are what make col­lege great. 
A few weeks ago. I myself was caught up in something that frightened me: I realized that only a few people know my name, or where I am from. 
How many people do you know? No, how many people do you REALLY know, not just someone who is a casual friend or a face in the crowd? 
If you stop and really think about it. the answer may scare you as much as it did me. Sure. I am no hermit. and I have many friends. but not that many that I would expect to remember who I am in 20 years. Those kinds of long-lasting friendships are what fuels the Notre Dame Family. and if we don't do our share. then we lose part of what makes this place so great. · So do yourself. and others. a favor. Turn around right now in the dining hall. on the quad or in your classroom -wherever­and ask the person behind you what his/her name is. 
You might even go so far as to find out his or her last name, too. Heck. you might even make a new friend. 
See, told you that was easier than you thought. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TODAY'S STAFF  
News  Scene  
Derek Betcher  Mark DeBoy  
Erica Thesing  Graphics  
Finn Pressly  Joe Mueller  
Sports  Production  
Kathleen O'Brien  Noah Amstadter  
Viewpoint  Lab Tech  
Spencer Stefko  Monica Garza  
Colleen Gaughen  

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exJ.m and vacalion periods. The Observer is a member of rhe Associared Press. AJI reproducrion righrs are reserved. 
Friday, October 9, 1998
The Observer· INSIDE 


utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Knife-wielding student threatens financial aid employees 
BLACKSBURG. Va. 

A disgruntled student threatened desk attendants with a knife at the Office of Scholarships and Financial Aid in Burruss Hall yesterday after­noon. making this the third knife inci­dent in the area in five days. 
The student was upset about his credit hours having been blocked due to his financial aid inadequacy, according to Virginia Tech police. 
At approximately 4:30 p.m. yester­day. bicycle police officer Jeremy Williams of the Tech police depart­ment arrived at Burruss Hall to find the suspect in a chair with a closed knife in his hand. 
Williams approached the student and forcefully removed the knife. Several minutes later, assisting offi­cers arrived on the scene. 
A second knife incident occurred Tuesday evening in downtown Blacksburg. 

Ross Norton. 29. of Abingdon. Va.. was taken into custody outside of Bolio's coffee house after he exposed what Eric Famisan, a Bolio's employ­ee who served Norton, described to be a 3-inch Swiss army knife the sus­pect held behind his back. 
Famisan said Norton began to cre­ate a scene when he was asked to pay the $2.39 for his beverage. 
When Norton attempted to pay for the drink with a $1 bill, Famison said he told him it wasn't enough. With a $5 bill clearly in sight, Famison said Norton then tried to pay with a $100 and got upset when Famison said the store would be unable to make change. 
Norton finally paid for the drink. but not before he said. according to Famison, ''I'm an Ameriean. I can choose to spend my money any way I want." 
Famison said Norton then pulled the knife from his poeket and flashed the weapon at his side. 
Norton was arrested by the Blacksburg police on aecounts of drunk in public. obstruction. larceny and assault. 
Police arrested Norton for larceny when they found a stolen camera in hispocket. and on assault charges when he spit in a police officer's faec. 
Norton was held on a $7.000 bond at the Montgomery County Jail. In addition. three individuals are wanted by the Blacksburg Police. 
• PRINCETON UNIVERSITY Faculty hopes to increase enrollment 
PRINCETON. N.J. 
A faculty committee this week released a comprehensive report making a variety of recommendations on admis­sions. most notably that the University ought to increase the size of each entering class by as many as 125 to 150 students. This kind of enrollment decision would be the most significant since co-education. Dean of the College Nancy Malkiel said. After spending all of last year's spring semester reviewing the undergraduate admissions policy and history, the committee produced an extensive 'report. some 20 pages long. with graphs and charts detailing minority and legacy statistics dating back to the early 1980s. Administrators who worked on the report say the University receives applications from an inordinately high amount of accomplished candidates who it is forced to reject based solely on numbers. "We are convinced that drawing more of the exceptional applicants we can't admit would enrich the student body," Malkiel said. 
• HARVARD UNIVERSITY Black leaders open economic summit 
CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 
Roughly 50 senior black labor leaders, intellectuals and policy experts from Harvard and across the nation con­vened yesterday for the African American Labor Leaders' Economic Summit. The conference, which focuses primar­ily on economic issues facing the nation's minority com­munity, is hosted by the Harvard Trade Union pro.gram, and runs through Saturday. "It will be a big a success, I think, if everyone goes away with just one new idea -if we come away thinking [the labor leaders] have ideas and knowledge and can contribute, and they go away thinking that we are not all a bunch of ivory tower characters," said Ascherman Professor of Economics Richard B. Freeman. one of the summit's organizers. Harvard's Afro­American studies department, the Institute of Politics, and two organization of black trade unionists -the Coalition of Black Trade Unionists (CBTU) and the A. Philip Randolph Institute (APRI)-are co-sponsoring the event. 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather(")fomcast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Friday  ~60  40  
Saturday  ~  66 46  
Sunday  ~  70 48  
Monday  ~60  42  
Tuesday  ~62  45  

4,9!,~G.QQ ~ ~ u 
Showers T-storms Rain Fl~,;.;es S~o·~ Ice Sunny Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
Via Assoc1ated Press Graph/csNet 
• MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY Authorities pin arson blame on tutor 
CAMBRIDGE. Mass. 

The Graduate Resident Tutor for the fourth floor of East Campus' west parallel was arraigned Oct. 5 for arson in connection with a fire at the dormitory late Friday night. The fire burned carpeting and a bulletin board of pho­tographs outside the room of the GRT. Dimitri Kountourogiannis. Kountourogiannis received first and second-degree burns from the fire. He was taken to Massachusetss General Hospital for treatment and subse­quently released. The fire allegedly started when Kountourogiannis poured an aceelerating ehemical on the carpeting of the floor, spelling out "41." the hall's moniker. and then set it on lire. The lire sprinklers did not shut off normally. causing water damage to all 11oors beneath the fire loeation near the Monroe stairwell. Cambridge Fire Department reports estimated damage from the suspiciousfire at $15.000. The fire alarm also failed to activate properly. 
• UNIVERSITY OF lEXAS Students donate meals to homeless 
AUSTIN. Texas 

After two days of soliciting meal donations for its new Feed Austin program, the University Hesidenee llall Association has obtained about 1,200 meals to dole out to area shelters and soup kitehens this semester. Offieials from the Division of Housing and Food Services said Wednesday they hope to get about 300 more meals by the end of the semester. While students' first chance to give away their extra meals ended Tuesday, another donation period will occur later this semester. The residence hall association proposed the program last year because many students had large quantities of paid-for but unused meals left on their dining cards. said Corey Ouslander. the asso­ciation's president. "At the end of the year they end up with like 50 extra meals." he said. "I decided that thev need a way to donate those extra meals to the hungry.;, Since the program is currently on a pilot basis, students were only allowed to donat1~ two meals each. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
1he Aocu-Weather•torecast for noon, Friday, October 9  
Asheville 68 41 Dubuque 69 46 Miami Atlanta 75 52 Houston 84 59 Phoenix Boulder 76 41 Juneau 45 36 San Diego Dallas 84 56 Las Vegas 74 39 Tampa Detroit 62 40 Los Angeles 78 62 Tulsa  88 96 76 87 78  76 68 60 70 56  

Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
-
• STUDENT SENATE
•SECURITY BEAT 

Senators reopen Clause discussion
Assailant attacks 


student at ATM 

By DEREK BETCHER Assisram News Editor 
'r'ostnrday flvening a Notre Da me graduate student was attaek1~d while making an A'l'M withdrnwal from the No tro Dame Federal Credit Union. according to assistant dirnetor of Univo•·sity sneurity Chuck Hurley. 
.,
'he assailant ned after a sk irrnish with the student, wlw was not harmed and did not experience any theft of mlmey or property. 
At approximatnly 8:20 p.m. th P student began a transac­tion at the drive-though ATM of thn Douglas Hoad location of tho Notre Dame Federal Credit Union. The suspect tlu1n movPd towards tlw stu· dent and approached between thtl rear of thf' automobile and the eredit union f'adlity lwandishing a pioco of wood, Hurley reported. 
The assailant allegedly placed the piece of wood at the student's throat, and a strugglo ensued. The studont twisted the suspect's arm, and he responded by t·eaching inside the automobile and switching off tho vehicle's ignition. 
The attacker then f1ed the somo. No theft was J'eported. 
After responding to the inci­dent, Notre Dame security was unable to locate the sus­pect. who reportedly Dod on foot into the field northwest of tho credit union building. St. Joseph County Police were called for assistance and 
•·espond1~d with a K-9 unit, but did not locate the suspect. 
The suspect was described as a 20-year-old white male with medium-length blonde hair, a goatee and a mus­tache. 

r 
~oted: Area's_B9,st Tanning Center Every Year 
'­
By ERICA THESING News Writer 
The Student Senate voted unanimously last night to form an ad hoc committee to rnsearrh the implications of tho propospd non-discrimination clause. 
This vote came after senators expressed concern that last week's resolution requesting that the Academic Council approve the new elause was rushed and improperly researched. 
The new committee will fur­ther research the clause and rnport to the senate on the pos­sibility of passing a new resolu­tion. If' the committee deeides that a new resolution is .neces­sary, that resolution could either support or amend last week's resolution. 
Some senators nxpressnd eon­cern that passing another reso­lution on the clause would hurt the senate's credibility, but other senators argued for moro complete research. 
"You should definitely research the issue so we come to the point where we can fnel good about it," said Sophie Fortin, Lewis Hall senator and chair of the gender relations committee. 
The gender relations commit­tee was previously responsible for researching and writing res­olutions regarding the non-dis­crimination clause. 
Last night's meeting also included a presentation by Kevin Huie, assistant director of multic-ultural student affairs. on the possibility of creating a multicultural center on campus. 
"The fact is, students of color on this campus have special needs. That's not a relative comparison, that's a fact," lluie said. 
lluie asked the senate for its support on the proposml ePntnr, which still needs final approval from the Board of' Trustees. The center would indude class­rooms and meeting spacn for multicultural groups, as well as office space for the OfTiee of Multieultural Student Affairs and other student organiza­tions. This space would ideally come in the form of a new building and is espneially important bp,cause tho current office is too small, lluie said. 

'youSHOULD DEFlNITE-LY RESEARCH THE ISSUE SO WE CAN COME TO THE POINT WHERE WE CAN 
FEEL GOOD ABOUT IT.' 
SOPl/IE FOR71N LliW!S H!ILL SEN/ITO!/ 
"We want to create the sense that we have more space, that more people ean come in, so it's not so intimidating," lluie said. "We do not want to take space away from anybody. I would not want that to happen." 
Huie researched multicultural centers at other universities this summer, and selectnd the University of California, San Diego, as a model. lie empha­sized that none of the other centers he looked at. ineluding San Diego's, offer services that Notre Dame does not already offer through the office of mul­ticultural affairs. 
"There really is a cultural center on campus already," 1-luie said. "I think it's really important that people under­stand that." 
lluie said that the new center 
would allow for morn of' thnsn serviens, whieh indudn diversi­ty education programs and a newsletter and help in pro­gramming for multicultural clubs to reach morn pnopl1~. 
lluie also nxplai1wd that thP cnnter cannot bn construet!HI ovnrnight. 
"This is not somnthing that can be accomplishnd within. say, 12 months." lw said. "But wp, think it's sonwthing impor­tant wn nPnd to look at." 
The multicultural committm~ will rnview the proposal for tho center and n~port back to tlw snnatn. 
The senate also heard last night from Matt Tomko and Mark Massoud. the studm1t gov­ern mont Board of Trustees rnport coordinators. Tomko and Massoud prnsnntnd this snmns­tnr's report to the board last wonk. The report dnals with snvnral issues, including an expansion of thn tutoring pro­grams for und1~rgraduatns and the developmnnt of a writing ePntnr. 
"It actually wnnt vnry wnll. The Board was vnry rnspon­sive," Tomko said. 
Both Tomko and Massoud emphasized tlw importance of following up on tho report and will continue to rnsearch the proposals at the request of' tlw Board of Trustees, which will meet again in February. 
Tomko and Massoud hopP to send a delegation of students and professors to Harvard Univnrsity to study thn writing center thorn, before making a final recommendation to the Board of Trustnes. 
The report is available on thn Internet through the studnnt government home page. Each senator also has a copy of the report, which will be available for review by students in thn dorms. 

. .. 
r-----------,
1 One Month 1 
I I 
: Unlimited l 
I . I 
1 1 or 
I Tannmg I : only $40.00 l
L-----------.J 
Univrrsity Cnmmom\ by Uf' Mn/1 


272-7653 
r-----------,
1 10 Tanning • 
I I 
l Bed l 

I s . 
I
: essrons : : only $35.00 l
L------.,.----.J 


INFORMATION MEETING Monday, Oct. 12 --7:00p.m. --Carroll Auditorium, Saint Mary's OR 

Open to all ND/SMC students 

Challenging academic program at Sacred Heart CoiJege in Cochin, India, focusing on the Asian World. 16 semester credits applicable towards core or rna·or re uirements. 
Opportunity for travel and study in many countries of the Far East, Southeast Asia, South Asia, Eastern Europe and Western Europe. 
INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS AVAILABLE SHORT VIDEO ON HIGHLIGHTS ALUMNI TO ANSWER QUESTIONS 
Any questions, call Dr. C. Pullapilly 272-0889. 
EVERYONE WELCOME! 

Help celebrate a friend's birthday with an ad in The Observer. 
Call 1-6900 for rates. 

Need Cash?? 
$25.00 Today with this Ad and a student I.D. 
---~---------------­
Potential of Earning $145.00 per month for 2 to 4 hours per week of your time. You choose your own schedule. 
Plasma Donations Save Lives Come Donate Today!! 
Call 234-6010 and ask for Toni -or stop and see us at 515 Lincolnway West South Bend, IN. 
page 4 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 9, 1998 
Religion 
continued from page 1 
programs will always remain the University's top priority." 
At schools like the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Harvard University and Stanford, professors ham­mer equations at their students just like at Notre Dame, but some say it is rare that any of these students will take the time to observe what they're learning, and attempt to apply it to other areas of academia. 
At Notre Dame on the other hand, undergraduate science majors must study religion, despite the claim that the two subjects cannot coexist. 
Some at the University believe that they were meant for intellectual marriage. 
"They just sort of belong in dialogue together, science and religion. They are two different ways of looking at the world, yet at Notre Dame, people seem to feel more comfortable engaging in that dialogue because of its strong value sys­tem and Catholic identity," said Father Mark Poorman, director of the Masters of Divinity pro­gram. 
He explained that the University provides a synthesis of the two ideals of religion and science. At Notre Dame, stu­dents can pursue religious meanings and scientific knowl­edge simultaneously, enhanc­ing both areas, and holding nothing back in the pursuit of resources to pursue religion as vigorously as science. Dorms provide Masses to allow stu­dents to explore their spirituali­ty just as scientists explore their experiments in a labora­tory, according to assistant pro­fessor of theology Matthew Ashely, who teaches a course in science and religion. 
knowledge,  according  to  
Poorman.  
Students  are  given  the  

He observed that many mem­bers of the science faculty are here because they do have strong religious beliefs, and they want to pursue their stud­ies at a place that shares their values. 
Science 
continued from page 1 
ed its members from pursuing new forms of thought, and sci­entists like Copernicus and Galileo were persecuted for publicizing the conclusions of their research. 
Only recently did the Catholic Church reverse its position on Galileo's work, and with the decision, a load has been lifted from the scientific community, according to physics department chair Bruce Bunker. 
Father Ernan McMullin, pro­fessor emeritus of philosophy at Notre Dame and member of the Vatican's Galileo committee, pointed out that there is often the misconception that science and religion are always in con­flict. 
Council 
continued from page 1 
interpret it the same way, and Notre Dame could be held legally accountable for what the law calls discrimination against homosexuals and the University calls adherence to Catholic doc­trine. 
Before the next meeting, members will investigate the ways in which other Catholic universities have adopted simi­lar clauses. In addition, they will research the nature and effectiveness of lawsuits which 
"It is rare that the two do con­flict, but in some cases, when people do not understand the domains of the two different dis­ciplines, tensions can arise," ~ullin said. 
During his time, Galileo tried to identify the fundamental dif­ferences between science and religion. 
"The scriptures tell us how to get to heaven, but not how the heavens go," the scientist wrote. 
McMullin suggested that sci­ence and religion can create tension for several reasons. He offered that people need to understand that religion and science are separate disciplines with different perceptions on how the world works. He explained that people should be aware of the answers they are looking for from each field, and the questions that should be directed toward each. 

have been filed against schools which include sexual orienta­tion in their non-discrimination clauses. 
The problems inherent in this distinction were magnified when the topic of unmarried faculty living in relationships was brought up. Some mem­bers questioned the distinction between heterosexual pre-mar­ital sex and homosexual rela­tions, sources said. 
"There seems to be a double standard there that we wouldn't want to have in the University," said junior Daniel Mullin, one of four student rep­resentatives on the Academic 
If science and religion are used in different domains, con­flicts will not arise, McMullin said. People can decide which questions they want to answer through religion and which they want answered through science. 
He pointed out that the most recent religious conflict con­cerns creation and evolution. Darwin's theory of natural selection was scrutinized by many religious fundamentalists for its implications that the teachings of the Bible are false. McMullin noted that the contro­versy over evolution and cre­ation is a crisis unique to America. 
"Because of its strong funda­mentalist population, the notion that evolution and creationism are two opposing ideals was created. In Europe, this contro­versy does not really exist," McMullin explained. 
Council. 
The issue, placed on the Council's agenda by the Executive Committee with a neutral recommendation, will go on to the Board of Trustees for final approval if it is passed by the Council and Malloy. 
The Board of Trustees, which was on campus last weekend, will not convene again until February. The amount of time available before the next Trustees' meeting was another factor allowing for the exten­sion of debate, according to members who said that the body did not want to rush to a decision. 
McMullin added that although some scientists can be very dog­matic in their views on religion -mainly affirming that God does not exist because of laek of proof-but that most aro not in such a state of utter disbelief. 
"Most scientists that look for all their answers through sci­ence disregard religion as a means of explanation to univer­sal questions," he said. 
He concluded that misconcep­tions about the roles science and religion play in our individual lives usually lead to the notion that science and religion are at some sort of impasse, when in truth, they do not intersect at all. 
"Science and religion often conflict in the minds of those who don't understand how the two different disciplines tnll us about the world we live in," McMullin said. 
Introducing ... 


• "Castle Point Select" • Designed for the Ultimate Comfort at Surprisingly Low Monthly Rate --Just Compare! • 


• 
Million Dollar Renovation 
• 
• LARGE One Bedrooms (737 sq ft), Starting at $457.00 • LARGE Two Bedrooms (1025 sq ft), Starting at $559.00 
• Included with rentals --Free full privilege membership to the Castle Point Health and Racquet Club • • including: *New Fitness Center *Outdoor Pool *Beach Volleyball *Sauna & Whirlpool *3 • • . Racquetball Courts *Indoor/Outdoor Basketball *Indoor/Outdoor Lighted Tennis Courts • 
• Hurry in for a Tour of the Most Popular Apartments ••• While They Last! ••• 
• Cetst(e :Poiint Apetrtments • • Cfeve(e~n() @ Jronwoo() :Roet{)s • • 272-8110 
• 

• www.castfe-point.com •
• :M'on()a~ -Satur()a~ 8 am -6pm 
• Sun()a~ 12 pm -5pm "Wiiere Ro~a( Living is Reasona6fe" 



-----~----~---------------­
RLD 
~.:ation 



FriJay, October 9, 1998 COM!'!LED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WoRLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Romania suffers grave shortage 
BUCII/\HEST 

Burharesl's nmwtnrins are running out of spa1~n. and tlw city's dnputy mayor has called for doubling up corpses in graves to deal with tlw ovnrcrowding. Each month, about I0.000 pnoph~ die in the Homanian capital. nwn• than tlw city's cemnteries can handle, llnputy Mayor /\lnxandru Malliu said. "The only rhanrn for thn future is for us to build I'PnwtPriPs outsidn th11 capital,'' Malliu said Thursday. "Until tlwn, I n~commend ... that two or tlm~e JWopln shan~ the same grave." Two Bucharest cnmnteries have recently stoppPd sPIIing plots after running out of sparf', Malliu said. Fiv1~ other graveyards have also filled up in recent years. The Homanian Orthodox Church, to which 90 pPITPnt of llomanians lwlong, opposes cre­mation, compounding tlw space problem. In addition. thP population in the capital has grown to :! million. about I million morn than atllw Pnd of 1·ommunism in I f)89. 
Startled tiger kills trainer 
NEWBEHBY 

A ran•. whitP BPngal tigPr !wing walk1~d on a lt·ash killt·d a lrailwr Thursday after it was slariiPd by construction workers. Charlns hlward l.(zza Ill was running to lwlp calm tlw :l!ill-pound tiger wlwn lw tripped and fell and tlw animal bit him on the neck. said Alarhua County siH~riiT's Sgt. .lim Troiano. l.izza. :!4. died at a hospital. Hon Guay, who ro-owns Bon and .loy lloliday's Cat Danr.nrs, was walking tlw tiger from a night kennel to a day kPnnPI wlwn it was startlnd. The c;uays had raisPd thP tignr since it was six days old. Tlw CainPsvilln Sun n~ported. It is up to llw ownPrs to dneidn what becomes of 1111• tigPr. Troiano said. 
Scientists identify cancer gene 
W/\SIIINGTON 

:\ gPrH• that appPars to rontrol the growth of tumors has been found by Texas rt•sf'arrlwrs studying genetic patterns in lung and rolon rar11:nr. Hesearchers at tlw llnivPrsity of TPxas. Southwnstern Medical C:Pnln in Dallas, report in the journal St"iPIH'P that a gPnn rallnd PPP2H I B helps to n~gular tlw growth of cells and that a muta­tion of the gl'nf' may lwlp promote lung and rolon rarH'nr. Dr. Glen Evans and Dr. Steven Wang, co-authors of thn study, said that 1'1'1'2111 B makns a protnin that helps to regu­latP phosphat!' nwtabolism. Wlwn the gnnn is llawPd, tlwy said, phosphatn builds up and 1'1'11 growth lwromns uncontrollnd, resulting in a tumor. The rnsearclwrs said that a mutation of 1'1'1'21! IB can be inhnritod and pPopiP with this gPnn hav1~ an increased risk of dnvP!oping rancPr of tlw lung or colon. 
1\tmtM)Wt§iMllli:W 
Dow 
AMEX: 
56.l.75

}ONES 
·22.02 Nasdaq:

7731.91 1419.12 
D 
-43.49 NYSE: 477.20 
-7.48 S&P 500: 959.44 

Composite
-11.25 

Volume: -9.7H 976,800,00 
VOLUME LEADERS 

I il~ll' ~:S~ IU !SIB ·~lrll~~~il liitlltll I!UU'~ 
IHil I P\.fi'III"Ht t 1\t 0\Y\ID.I\  IH'.IIc.:.ul  -4.20 +h.-11  -2.1250 +2.8125  4K.4.i75 46.6K75  
\tiC IUl~llll t Okl' I'JU('l)l(l' t oMPMJ( 0\iPllll R \HI Wt)l(l.ll< tJM l"lllt.!Ullii'IN( Yt\JIUP INt  \!'IT INH c I'<J Wt:l1M CCI YIHHJ  -t\2 -0.79 ·.'-51 ·IK5 -t2 .i6 -K..tb  -2.0375 .(),625 -O.K7S -U.HI25 t0.7500 -9.5625  91.1H75 7K.4.i75 2.UJ625 .U.\15 .12.500 104.HIZ5  
\l'llR  >I'V  -II 55  -11.5:H3  96.594  
< f~ll·\IH  Cll  -6.25  -11.5000  7.500  

• SERBIA 

Kosovo insurgents declare cease-fire 

AFP Photo 

A Red Cross worker prepares medical supplies, as the prospect of NATO action grows in the Serbian province of Kosovo. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS capital Pristina said the rebel com­Despite international pn~ssure and 
mand "has decided to refrain from all NATO throats. Milosnvie has n~fusnd to 
BELGHADE military activity" starting Friday. openly deelare a cease-fire, 1~ven 
Ethnic Albanian rebels lighting for Kosovo is a southern province of though there has bnen no major light­independence for the Serbian province Serbia, the main republic in ing in Kosovo during the past we11k. of Kosovo declared a unilateral cease­Yugoslavia. About 90 percent of lie considPrs the Kosovo r11bnls "tnr­lire Thursday, putting more pressure Kosovo's 2 million inhabitants are eth­rorists and bandits," and any cmtse­on Yugoslav President Slobodan nic Albanians, and most favor indepen­!ire on his part would legitimize them Milosnvic to 1md his crackdown. dence. as a negotiating part1wr, one of his 
Tensions between Milosevic and the Although the KLA has been driven associates said on condition of Unit1~d States, which is pressing for from all but a few scattered areas, the anonymity. NATO airstrikes against Scrb-led announcement is politically significant. The United States says Milosnvk has troops, int1~nsilied as Secretary of State Milosevic launched his crackdown Feb. not compliPd with U.N. Security Madeleine /\!bright dnelarnd Thursday 28 after attacks by KLA rebels against Couneil demands for a eeasn-lire, the that time was running out for the police and soldiers in the majority partial withdrawal of his troops, and Yugoslav president to comply with U.N. Albanian province. the return of rnfugnes to their villages. demands. Albright said a united NATO He has insisted he needs to maintain In Brussnls. BPigium. U.S. envoy backs airstrikes. a military and police presence in the Hichard llolbrooh brinfpd Albright 
/\bout 20 carloads of U.S., British area to guard against further KLA and NATO oflkials on the results of his 
and Australian embassy staiTers head­attacks. three rounds of talks with Milosevk ed out of Belgrade as a safety mea­In the statement, the KLA said its this week. sure, even as a U.S. envoy returned for guerrillas wou(d defend themselves if Albright told llolhrooko to rnturn to 
morn talks with Milosevic. attacked. The rebels demanded Belgrade for more talks, amid signs of A statement distributed by the international monitoring of thn cease­opposition within NATO to an attack Kosovo Liberation Army in Kosovo's lire. without further diplomatk ell'orts. 
House approves further action 
'I 
ASSOCIATED PRESS case for an investigation unlimited in tinw or seope. WASHINGTON To the nation watching on 
DO NOT THINK 1HAT WE WANT TO SETILE FOR
The House triggered an television -as well as to open-ended impeachment LFSS THAN THE WHOLE TRUTH.' openly skepl.ieal inquiry against President Democrats sitting across Clinton on Thursday in a the aisle in the House 
~P. ffENRl'ffYDE
momentous vote east in the chamber -he pledged shadow of mid-term elec­fairness in tho months tions. ahead. 
Thirty-one Democrats "Too much hangs in tho joinnd majority ally televised impeachment face impeachment ovnr balance for us not to rise Ilepublicans in inereasing hearings later this year, Watergate. The only presi­above partisan politics,'' the peril for an embatlled with possible witnesses dent impeached by the said the Judiciary chief executive. ranging from Independent House was Andrew Commilteo ehairmun. 
Clinton, only the third Counsel Kenneth Starr to Johnson in 1868. He House Demoerats, fear­president to face serious Monica Lewinsky, Linda remained in office after the ing that Hepublicans will impeachment prospects, Tripp and other central Senate fell one vote shy of fold Whitewatet· and other said at the White House: characters in the sex-and­forcing his removal. controversies into their "It is in the hands of covet·-up drama that has "I do not think that we investigation, argued in Congress and the people of commanded the nation's want to settle for less than vain for an inquiry limited this country -ultimately attention for nine months. the whole truth," said Rep. to Starr's evidenee, to be in the hands of God." The House action came Henry Hyde, H-Ill., the wrapped up by Dec. 31. 
The 258-176 vote 24 years after Richard man at the controls of the The proposal was rejeeted, opened the way for nation· Nixon resigned rather than inquiry, as he made the 236-198. 
page 6 The Observer • NEWS Friday, October 9, 1998 
Crash Aran addresses Mid-East developments 
damages bridge 
Special to The Observer 
In the early morning hours of Oct. 7 there was a serious traf­fic crash at the intersection of US 933, Michigan Street and Northshore Drive, involving a passenger vehicle and semi tractor. 
As a result of this crash, the bridge over the St. Joseph River was heavily damaged and diesel fuel spilled into the river and river bank. 
Beginning Friday, Oct. 9 at 

8:30 a.m., US 933, Michigan Street will be narrowed to two lanes of traffic. One lane north­bound and one lane south­bound at Northshore Drive to allow construction crews room for emergency repairs and clean-up crews to remove cont­aminated soil on the river bank. 
The South Bend Police Department is expecting a large traffic back-up on this high-volume traffic roadway in both north and south direc­tions. They ask that motorists to allow extra travel time or take an alternative route dur­ing this repair period. 

Got News? 
Call 1-5323. 
1:10,4:30,7:15, 10:00 
Urban Legend R 11:50,2:40,5:20,8:00,10:10 Saving Private Ryan R 
12:30, 4:05, 8:05 Annageddon PG-13 12:50,4:40,8:15 One True Thing R 1:15, 4:20, 7:05, 9:55 Something About Mary R 12:00,2:35,5:10,7:45, 10:15 Holyman PG 11:40, 2:10,4:50, 7:20, 10:05 Dr. DolitUe PG-13 12:15,2:20,4:35,6:40,9:15 Blade R 1:40,4:15,7:10, 10:05 
Ronin R 1:00, 2:00, 4:00, 5:00, 7:00, 7:40 9:45,10:25 
What Dreams May PG-13 12:00, 1:30, 2:30, 4:10, 5:10, 6:50, 7:50, 9:30, 10:30 
Night atthe Roxbury PG-13 12:20,2:50,5:15,7:30,9:50 
By MAGGY TINUCCI 
News Writer 
The 1995 assassination of Prime Minister Rabin brought to light the differences between the Arab state and the State of Israel. marking a critical change in regard to fundamen­talism in Israeli society, accord­ing to Gideon Aran. 
In a lecture Thursday, Aran -an expert on religion in the Middle East -said coming peace agreement between Israel and Palestine must be viewed in terms of that change. 
"Extremism is a solidarity­producing movement," said Aran, professor of sociology 
and  anthropology  at  the  
Hebrew  University  of  
Jerusalem.  

The tragic assassination of Rabin, an extreme measure, exemplifies Israel's present conditions which pit Jews against each other, thereby shattering the picture of the nation as a united front, he said. 
Now, according to Aran, Israel is viewed on equal foot­ing with its neighbors for the first time. 
"The Arab peoples gained an empathy towards Israel because of her weaknesses," he said. 
Aran displayed an Egyptian political cartoon which he said perfectly portrayed the internal conflicts in Israel -the physi­cal manifestations of both Jewish extremism and Islamic extremism in pursuit on an angel of peace. The physical affinity of the two zealots showed the similarities in their movements. 
"It shows the suspicion and hostility on one hand and the solidarity on the other," said Aran. 
He noted that an understand­ing of fundamentalism serves as the background for the cur­rent state of Israel. Defined as the contemporary religious revival with violent political implications, fundamentalism is in fact a "political religion." 
"(In this context]. political involvement is divine and a messianic medium," Aran said. 


1:45, 2:45, 4:15, 5:10, 6:45,  
7:20, 8:45, 9:30  
AirBud 2  G  
2:20, 4:30, 6:50, 9:00  
Parent Trap  PG-13  
1:30, 4:20, 7:00, 9:40  
Halloween H20  R  
2:30, 4:50, 7:30, 9:30  
Mask of Zorro  PG-13  
2:00, 5:00, 8:00  


"The more political something  peace  treaty  with  the  ed  so  much  religiously,  an  
is, the higher its religious value  Palestinians, the Israelis are  agreement would signify the  
becomes."  forced to give up all they have  "withdrawal from the messianic  
Two modern forms of funda­ invested in their land over the  promise," according to Aran.  
mental- past  20  Overall,  peace  with  the  
i  s  m  years.  Palestinians would only lead to  
spawn  Secondly,  internal conflict within Israel  
from  a  'THE MORE POLITICAL SOME­ as the main  itself, Aran said.  
mutual influence.  THING IS, THE HIGHER ITS  body of the Zionist  His suggestion for the peace­makers is a retention of funda­ 
The first  RELIGIOUS VALUE BECOMES.'  movement,  mentalism, but a move from the  
is  the  Palestinians  second, more nationalistic phi­ 
"proto­ have creat­ losophy to the first,  more reli­ 
typical  GIDEON ARAN  ed a signifi­ giously orthodox principle.  
funda­ HEBREW UNIVERSI1Y OF JERUSALEM  cant politi­ "The people will be emanci­ 


mental-i s m where secular modernity is cat­egorically rejected," said Aran. 
Blatantly anti-Zionist, follow­ers of this philosophy avidly rejects nationalism. They are the ultra-orthodox who consid­er themselves "God-fearing." 
The second fundamentalist group is becoming more preva­lent. 
"This is a political religion and adopts nationalism after it has changed national values into becoming religious ones. They accept nationalism and become its check," Aran said. 
This second group is repre­sented by the Jewish extremist movement which captured the West Bank and the Gaza Strip during the Six Days War in 196 7 and remains the primary group that retains control today. 
"Its nationalism is perceived as the perfected vision of Judaism," said Aran. 
Regardless of their differ­ences, the two groups have a genuine interest in each other because both view their land as a holy entity, said Aran. 
It is in light of this historical background that the peace agreements currently undergo­ing negotiations are "not strate­gically disastrous, but seen as religious heresy," said Aran. 
He went on to explain the "heresy" as three-fold: Primarily, by agreeing to a 

cal and pated from violence with the 
social posi­Arabs only to engage in conflict tion in which they are the with other Jews," said Aran. "In "paragon to all Israeli people." essence, there is a shift from 
The Israelis also have invest-one extreme to another." 
ND/SMC RIGHT TO LIFE CLUB PRESENTS: 
RESPECT LIFE WEEK 
PRAYER SERVICE ATABORTION CLINIC 
MEET AT LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 2:00P.M. 
"Ifyou remain indifferent in time of adversity, your strength will depart from you. Rescue those who are being dragged to death."--Proverbs 24:10-11 
LOGAN CENTER DANCE 
MEET AT LIBRARY CIRCLE AT 6:45P.M. 
"Handicaps, all forms of handicaps, never undermine the dignity of the person ~r the right to the best quality of life..."-.._Pope John Paul// 

Antz PG-13 2:00,5:10,7:00,9:00 Something About Mary R 2:15,4:45,7:15,9:45 Night atthe Roxbury PG-13 2:30, 5:15, 7:30, 9:30 




For thne and location of meeting, call: 1-8041 NDGLS Group Advisors: Fr. Tom Gaughan, C.S.C Sr. Mary Louise Gude, C.S.C. 
All Meetings are ~rivate and confidential. 
-~~-----~­

------------~----------------­
Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 7 
SMC opens new volunteer effort 
Pianist will play 
By NOREEN GILLESPIE 
Ncw!'~Wrircr 
Saint Mary's studnnts and faculty will dig tlwir hands into tlw roots or downtown South Bnnd Saturday at thn first annual Saint Mary's in tlw City. 
Corps ol' Collngn voluntnnrs w i II h n I p r<~ ron s t r u c t St. Margarnt's llousn, a homn for wom<'n and rhildrPn. Thn hous<' is rurr<'nlly Pxpanding its facility to a<~<·ommodatn morn pnopln. 
"W<~ wantnd to ronnnct spnrif'i('ally with a community organization in town," said Sist<'r Linda Kors. dirnctor ol' lh<' Spns Unica Hnsourcn and 
Volunt<~<~r Cnntnr (SUHV). 
Kors dnsignod tho projnct al'tnr rncniving suggnstions that Saint Mary's needed a 
'WE'RE HOPING THIS WILL BECOME A 
TRADITION.' 
SIS'IHI LINIJII Kons SURV IJIIIH.TOR 
program to oxpand and be part of the !South Bend I com­munity. 
"We'ro hoping this will 


Saturday at 9:00 p.m. Sunday at 6:30p.m. in Carroll Auditorium 
** Admission is free! ** 
Sponsored by SAB 

become a tradition," Kors said. "It's the first year. and we have no idea how it is 
Bach, lecture 
going to go." 
Saturday's evont comes after of months of planning that involved selecting the commu­nity ag<~ney and holding meet­ings with the executive direc­tor of St. Margaret's House. 
Campus groups and outside organizations donated sup­plios and money during an organized campaign for such resources. 
"Tho reaetion has been extremely positive," said Kors, who expects close to 75 partic­ipants for the day. "A lot of people want to volunteer but don't always have the time to make it happen on a weekly or monthly basis." 
Volunteers will be painting, cleaning, refurbishing, reno­vating and performing an assortment of useful odd jobs on the second story of the house. 
The SURV center is looking for donations or loans of paintbrushes, rollers, ladders, buckets, hand tools and any other home-renovation equip­ment. 
"We're also looking for any­one who can help," said Kors. "If you're willing to get into a little paint, we'd love to have you. It should be a fun experi­ence." 
Volunteers can carpool from the Le Mans Circle with cars leaving every hour from 9 a.m. until 3 p.m. St. Margaret's House is located at 117 North Lafayette. 
Students interested in the program can eontact the SURV office at 284-5368. 
By RUTH SNELL News Writer 
Hoping to illuminate the relationship of the mind to the heart with music and words, internationally recog· nized pianist Lorin Hollander will perform and lecture at 8 
p.m. tonight in 0 'Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary's College. 
Hollander's 40-year music career began with his Carnegie Hall debut at age 
11. He now gives at least as maQy lecture/performances as recitals•. and many are at universities.'*"·· 
He called his lectures ''explorations of cross-disci· pline creativity;'' 
"{I strive) .to bring as much gentleness, kindness, justice, caring, charity and justice into human reality as possi· ble;".Hollander said. 
.. Tonight's leCture, titled "Music,. the Creative Process, and the. Path of Enlightenment,'' seeks to com~ine nn.sic .with the spirit anQ. tln~fr relathmship to P:Uiriaj}tire.:·•···•············•··· ··~b,, •.. 
· eipJo~e) Fhe"difficulties 
bav~ giving up our 
· ·· e!fti~ Sl:llf·C:Jxpres· 
. ollander. 
ill'.b · .Pl'~ying three 
~s,. including 
an'sDesiring," 
.ally unknown 
r.angerpent of 
... ..... conn(:lt'' originally 
/{~:~;.unaccompanied 

violin, for the left-hand alone. Hollander plans to also per­form some Freneh composi­tions -"works that touch ... exploring certain emotion: absolute love, tenderness, gentleness." 
Playing in the South Bend area for almost :~0 years, Hollander met College presi­dent Marilou Eldred last year during his performanee with the South Bend Symphony. 
"We explored questions about spirituality and music and the role of the arts in human society in general, and in spiritual life in particular," he said. ·•so many of our dearly held beliefs were shared." 
Hollander attributed tonight's performance ­which was planned in less than a year-to Eldred. 
"It was her vision and com­mitment that paved the way," he said. 
In his lecture/performances, Hollander said he delves into insecurities and how people are worried about the way they are perceived and accepted -especially in edu­cational situations. 
"[When we are criticized, we decide) never again wlll 1 share so openly." he said, adding that people's hypo· thetical audience intimidates them. 
"We are much more extra­ordinary than the concepts we have of ourselves," Hollander said. 
THE STANDING COMMITTEE ON 
GAY AND LESBIAN 
STUDENT NEEDS 
~------~------------------------------------~------------~----------------------~-----~------~.----.-------------. 
page 8 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Friday, October 9, 1998 
Econ prof explores challenges of poetry 
By MEGHAN DONAHUE and how God inspired his jour­News Writer ney. Noting the influence of his The big thing unseen is faith. wife. McElroy said, "[When my 
Jerry McElroy, an economics wife signs her name on a paint­
professor at Saint Mary's ing]. the journey's under way 
College, spoke about the diffi­and softly signed." 
culties of writing poetry yester­McElroy explained that when 
day evening. Unlike writing a an individual can appreciate 
term paper, which requires beauty and the grace of God simply research and meaning, then they claim it a.s their own, feeling is a mandatory element they are what they see. in poetry, he said. Profoundness is locked into 
While relaying many differ­family, attempting to write will ent definitions of poetry, unlock those clandestine McElroy shared his own theory. words. "Poetry is intense human emo­"You must go beyond the tion screaming for meaning in bounds of daily equilibrium," compressed elegant words," he said McElroy. 
said. People feel -a't home when 
A poem begins with an they witness Mother Earth epiphany, an experience unlike changing, growing, leaving a any other that invokes an emo­fresh imprint of innocence, tional response. stunned by God. 
"If you're lucky you can "We of faith will fall in with 
recall the staying power and luck and know transcendence. wonderment in a moment," God is selfless. God gives all in McElroy said. secret, therefore you can only 
The poet mentioned how bump into God on accident," he frustrating it is to think about said. what he wants to write. only to McElroy reminds the world lose half of the words along the that, "A hard life has music 
way. hidden in it somewhere." 
"We're surprised by a train rushing through the valley throwing rocks from the path," he said. "In the end, those tossed aside stones are the path to reclaim the mystical experience we were trying to write about." 
McElroy related to Pablo Picasso's personal experience with one powerful quote: "I do not paint what I'm looking for, I paint what I find." 
Likewise, "Poets write because they know they're going somewhere new," he said. 
With the help of freshman Mandy Schomas, McElroy recit­ed and explained his poetry 
BOOK SEARCH 
• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 ~ • Nationall•,'-circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 4661 7 (219) 232-8444 
Armageddon PG 13 2:45. 7:20. 10:25 
Blade 
2:40. 3~45. 5:20. 7:35.8:00. 
10:20. 10:35 
Dead Man on Campus 
3:10, 5:40. 7:55. 10:10 
Halloween H20 
2:20. 4:20. 7:00. 9:30 Holy Man PG 1:so. 4:25. 7:00. 9:35 
Ron in 
2:00. 3:30. 4:40. 7:05. 7:30. 
9:45. 10:10 
Saving Private Ryan 
2:10. 3:00. 5:35. 7:45,9:15 
Snake Eyes 
2:15. 4:30. 7:10. 9:40 
The Mask of Zarro PG13 
1:55. 4:45. 7:35. 10:35 What Dreams May Come PG13 2:05.2:50.4:35, 5:25. 7:15. 7:55. 9:55. 10:30 
lOW\ liMES ONCI fOUl OM ADVA~! 'lCW \Alb <ANt«" AC(!IIIBLI t NO PAS!!$ • ~0 I•'III•Mll 


'' 

Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • NEWS page 9 
•INDONESIA 
Sukarno daughter leads rally 
Assud.ucd Press 
S/\NUH 

In a srt'nl' rnminisn~nt of the rnassivn ra.llins orrhnstratml by lwr <·.harismatir father dnrades ago. Mngawati Sukarnoputri rais<'d hPr list in tlw air. 
"FrPndom!" slw rrind. "Fn•Pdom!" tens of thousands of lwr support<'rs roamd bark. 
Tlw daught<'r of Indonesia's founding lwad of statn oponnd a <·onvPntion of hnr political fac­tion Thursday with a spnech many n~gardf'd as hor first step toward running for presidnnt IH'Xt yPar. 
Undaunt<'d by tlw fien:o tropi­cal hPat. an estimatnd crowd of 
50.000 gatlwred in a fir.ld near tlw lwarh rnsorts of' thn island of' Bali. 
Many had to walk hours to 
Today's 
preparation determines tomorrow's achievement 
hnar lwr promise to ond corrup­tion. fight crimn and bntter tho plight of the poor. Major streots wnrn dospd to trallk as a pre­<:aution against more of tho unrost that has wracked other parts of Indonesia this year. 
In May, about 1,200 people died in riots on the neighboring main island of Java. forcing l'residPnt Suharto to quit 32 years af'tnr he took power from Sukarno, Megawati's father. 
In recent weeks, IU. llabibin, Suharto's successor and long­time ally, also has benn targetnd by protests, and hn has promised to hold parliamentary nlnctions next year. 
Megawati hnads a faction of the opposition Indonesian Dnmocratk Party that hopes to dcf'eat llabibie with a platform of d<)mocratic change. 

While llabibie still has the support of Indonesia's military, Megawati is becoming more popular. riding a wave of wide­spread discontent over the melt­down of the economy. 
As the largest nation in Southeast Asia, Indonesia's sta­bility is considered crucial to the region. The world's fourth most­populous country with 202 mil­lion people. it comprises 17,000 islands strategically straddling between the Pacific and Indian oceans. 
Despite the crowd's enthusi­asm Thursday, Megawati showed few glimpses of her fathPr's gift for oratory. The late Sukarno, the independence leader who became Indonesia's l'irst president, was renowned for his ability to whip UJH>pposi­tion to Outch colonial rule. 


As a graduating senior, you are preparing for your future. At Peterson Worldwide LLC, we too are preparing for your future ... your future as a management consultant! 
We seek future graduates to join Peterson Worldwide LLC. You must be working to­wards an accounting, business, economics, finance, engineering, or systems degree, and have excellent communications skills, computer proficiency, and flexibility regard­ing overtime and travel. 
Choose Peterson Worldwide LLC ... with us behind you, a great future lies ahead, a future filled with achievement. 
To learn more about us, visit our website, www.pcit.com. Please join us for an infor­mational presentatiorr-: 
Monday, October 12 
6:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. University of Notre Dame Alumni Room, Morris Inn Interviews: Friday, November 13 
0
w~~~:~e1 

An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer 
Please Recyle the Observer 
Got News? 1-5323 

U.S. may attack bin Laden again 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON 
Further U.S. missile attacks against the Afghanistan oper­ations of Islamic extremist Osama bin Laden are possi· ble, the Clinton administra­tion suggested Thursday. "We will take those actions we believe are necessary," a top State Department ofllcial told Congress. 
Karl F. lnderfurtb, assistant secretary of state for south Asian affairs, ealled on lead­ers of Afghanistan's Taliban religious army for help. 
"They consider that Mr. Osama bin Ladin is a guest ... We be'lteve that this man is not a guest, that he is a mur­derer and a terrorist." Inderfurth said. 
Inderfurth also expressed concern over recent border clashes between Taliban forces and Iran, but said he doubted the recent massing of' Iranian troops along its northeastern border signaled an impending invasion of Afghanistan. 
''Our view is that the pur­pose of these exercises has been to intimidate, not to necessarily presagn an Iranian attack inside Afghanistan," he told the Senate Foreign 
Relations subcommittee on near eastern and south Asian affairs. 
Still, Inderfurth said, "This is not a war we want to see." He said it would further destabilize an already unsta­ble region. 
lnderfurth was asked if the administration was contem­plating any additional mili­tary aetions in Afghanistan as a follow-up to the Aug. 20 cruise missile strikes against a purported terrorist training camp there. Other missiles destroyed the Al Shifa phar­
maceutical factory in 
Khartoum, Sudan. 
"Those options are clearly 

available to us," he said. 
Inderfurth said that the 

attaek in Afghanistan "sent a 
powerful message that ter­
rorists cannot find safe 
haven, even in nations that 
harbor them." He eallod 
Afghanistan ''a vipers nest of 
terrorist training." 
"So, this must be dealt with. 

and the Taliban must under­
stand that its providing safe 
haven does make them eom­
plicit in the activities that arc 
eonducted by the terrorists 
themselves," Inderfurth said. 
"Our message is simple: 

Osama bin Laden. an interna­
tional terrorist leader still 
opnrating from Afghanisttw. 
must be brought to justice, 
and Afghanistan must stop 
being a terrorist base,'' hn 
added. 
The United States has 
linked bin Laden to the 
bombings of' two U.S. 
embassies in Africa. 
"We fully expeet that we 
will hear more from Mr. bin 
Laden and his network at 
future times, and therefore 
the work that we are doing to 
combat that and to prevent it, 
is a 24-hour-a-day exercise 
being undertaken by our gov­
ernment," lnderfurth said. 
"We don't expeet the attacks that took place in August to be the last word." 
Inderfurth said there was "some reason to believe" the Tallban was roeonsidering iL-; tolerance for bin Laden. lie said he could not eonfirm some news ;u:counts that bin Laden was considering mov­ing his operations to KlLshmir. 
Estimates of th0. Iranian forces have ranged to as many as 270.000. ·However, lnderl'urth suggested such figures are grossly inflated. 


TUESDAY OCTOBER 13; 199H 
7:30P.M. 

MOREAU CENTEf{­LITTLE THEATRE 
IRISH FOLK SINGER .........,.......~ 
f18_(iflf..l{_ 
~NOntro.-..a,IN 

FOH TICKET INFOHMATION CONTACT THE SAINT MAHY'S 130X OFFICE 
(2.19) 284-4626 
( ·) 

VIEWPOINT 

Friday, October 9, 1998
page 10 
THE OBSERVER 

NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BusiNESS MANAGER Brian Reinrhaler Kyle Carlin 

AsSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ....... Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER ............... Kerry McPartlin VIEWFOINT EDITOR ................. Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................ Brett Huelat SPORTS EDITOR ..................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER ..................... Michael Brouillet SCENE EDITORS........................... Sarah Dylag CoNTROLLER .................................... .Dave Rogero 
Kris~i Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR .................. Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR ....... M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ............................... Pete Cilella PHOTO EDITOR ................. Kevin Dalum 
The Observer is rhc independent newspaper published by rhe studems of the Universiry ofNmre Dame duLac and Saim Mary's College. It does nm necessarily rdlect the policies of the adminisnarion ofeither institution. The news is reporrcd as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of rhe majority of rhe Editor-in-Chief. Man.1ging Editor, Assistant Managing Editor and department editors. Commentaries, lcrters and columns presenr che views of rhe authors. and nor necessarily those ofThe Observt"r. Viewpoint space is available wall members of the Notre Dame/Sainr Mary's communiry and ro all readers. The free expression of varying opinions rhrough letrers is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 

Editor-in-Chief 631-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Editor/Assistant ME 631-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Photo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Samt Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I @nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsnews.l@nd.edu 

• I'M NOT A liBERAl, IJUST PLAY ONE ON T.V. 
Educate Yourself ••• Then Someone Will Listen 
"Better to remain silent and thought a fool than to speak out and remove all doubt." 
Abraham Lincoln 

The recent activities of student leader­ship and student activists on this campus have been nothing short of tragic. Certain bodies of student leaders and student activists have truly let this student body down. The saddest part about it is that these same student leaders and student activists purport to being doing just the opposite. They are supposed to be work­ing to serve the Notre Dame community ­especially the students. 

Brandon Williams 
Student Senate -Part I 
I am not here to criticize aU of Notre Dame's student leaders. The executive branch of our student government has done very well so far; especially given the mess they were left with. Further, I've been a student senator, hall president and almost successful candidate for student body president. I know how much work goes into student government and how thankless the job often is. Nevertheless, the recent action taken by our student senate is inexcusable. The students repre­sented by these student leaders should be appalled. 
First of all, the student senate passed a resolution calling for the inclusion of sexu­al orientation in the non-discrimination clause. Ask your student senator how much research went into the passing of this resolution. 
Ask them how it would effect civil litiga­tion against the University. Ask them how it could potentially effect Notre Dame's religious liberty, their capacity to uphold the teachings of the Church that they are an arm of academically. Ask them if they know the status of court proceedings in Hawaii concerning the legalization of gay marriage. Ask them what would happen to Notre Dame if it includes sexual orien­tation in a legally binding non-discrimina­tion clause and then denies a homosexual couple married student housing on the basis of the Church's condemnation of homosexual sexual activity. Ask them if civil courts in the United States make a distinction between being homosexual and being a practicing homosexual. 
Never mind. You don't have to. I can tell you the answer you will get. 
Our student senators have absolutely no clue about how to answer any of these questions. Now ask them if they think they should know something about these issues, about the ramifications of what they advocate, before they advocate it. 
Most of them will tell you the answer is no. After all, the administrative officials can do the homework that the student senate failed to do, right? 
We are only students. 
Student Senate -Part II 

You've got to feel at least a little sorry 
for Professor Bradley. I can't imagine he thought that this much controversy would surround his presence at Notre Dame. Nevertheless, I'm glad it has. 
The Student Senate does not share my sentiment. • The Student Senate extended an unequivocalwelcome to Senator Bradley 
(a.k.a. Bill "I would rather die than vote pro-life" Bradley) recently. 
They didn't want Senator Bradley to feel badly about the debate surrounding his presence at an institution that is part of a Church that views him as a supporter of institutionalized murder. If he were to feel bad about people opposing the adminis­tration's inviting him just because he has had a significant role in the sanctioning of something as miniscule as abortion -well then he might say bad things about us. 
This is the real issue for the student sen­ate, not that "abortion" thing. 
But at least the Student Senate is open to debate, right? Wrong. They didn't even let pro-life ND voice their opinion at the meeting! 
Pro-life ND would have done a better job of representing my views at Senate than most of the Senators. Too bad they weren't allowed to. (Not to mention, from what I hear, during the small amount of time that pro-life ND was allowed to speak they were chastised for their comments). 
Progressive Student Alliance -Part MM 
As everyone (and I mean EVERYONE) on campus knows -the PSA had a rally earlier this week for (again) adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause. Of course, most people in the PSA and most who were at the rally also have no concept of the potential concerns for Notre Dame legally and in terms of reli­gious liberty (not all freedoms are so pre­cious to the PSA). But I'm not even going to go into that. What I have a real problem with is how they publicized the rally. 
First sign: "Want to be on TV, Come to the Rally." 
Yeah, that's a great reason to go to the rally. Who says the PSA cares about the issues rather than publicity? 
Second sign (in the dining hall): "Not homophobic? Sign here!" 
What did the PSA want people to sign? A petition in support of the addition to the non-discrimination clause. What better way to advocate for a cause? Ad-hominem attacks-they work every time. They are a real pillar of logical and constructive debate. 
Well, I've got news for the PSA. One can be against this addition to the non-dis­crimination clause (or withhold judgement pending further research) and still not be homophobic. Neither my roommate, nor I are homophobic. Anyone who knew us well would be hard pressed to argue that. I think, and hope, that those people we know who are gay would back us both up on this. 
Both of us were disgusted by what we heard about recent antics at a pep rally. However, neither of us signed the petition. Its not because we're homophobic. Its because we believe in a few little things like informed debate, religious liberty and the responsible exercise of student rights. 
•  DOONESBURY  GARRY TRUDEAU  
00 YOU 7H!NK 7He PRbS/l?eNTS t3C!TIN6A RAIAJ t:e.4L.., POPPY!  Y&5, IT tuA9. IT tuASvt'.RY 9AV. I  IJIJTMOf3T P&OPI£ OON'TS&&M 707HINI<. 50. HOIAJ WI& )t::iVJ [}()'?! I  

Final Thought 
I have a good friend named Ann Searln. For this entire semester she and a few other notables have worked long and hard to start up a new (and incredibly promis­ing) service group called Teamwork for Tomorrow. It is in a position to make a serious, serious difTerence for disadvan­taged kids in the South Bend community. Ann and the others who have worked to get this group off the ground are the model of dedication. They have put hours and hours of their time into doing research on how to make their program work. 
They have spent hours and hours study­ing the bnst methods of helping these kids and becoming educated as to the ramifica­tions of their work and how to ensure that those ramifications are wholly positive ones. They will succeed. They will make a positive difference. 
Being a student leader and advocating for justice are both difTerent forms of ser­vice from the type that Ann is pursuing, but service nonetheless. 
Why is it that others don't put the same amount of time and responsible effort into their service as Ann has put into hers'? I know it's not always easy. I've been there. Nevertheless, this past week's events takes things too far. These groups needed to be called out. A number of people have done so. Now maybe they'll take a look at Ann and her friends and learn something. Maybe some of that dedication, serving attitude and responsible action will fmd its way into these other spheres of student service and student life. 
Brandon Williams (a.k.a. "That Big Guy Brandon") is a Senior living in Zahm Hall. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer . 
• 0.UOTE OF THE DAY 
'Don't be humble. You're not that great." 
-Golda Meir 


VIEWPOINT 
Friday, October 9, 1998 ------------------
page II 
• WADDICK'S JOURNAl • CAPITOl COMMENTS 
Auto Summary 

It's amazing what computnrs can do. As I was try­ing to figurP out how to synthesize~ and summarize somn of our rather important politic:al texts. I stum­b!Pd across tlw Auto Summary function of' Microsoft Word. This. in conjunction with Word Count and HPadability Statistics. has given us powerful tech­nologic~s that reducn the amount of brain cells wast­Pd in our Pfl'orts to rnad and understand dillicult tnxts. 
Jeff Langan 

Lc~t's pradit:n. Pirst. thn Constitution of the United Statns of Amnrit:a. Thf1 Sp111ling and (;rammar Cheek that !Pad to Tlw Hnadability Statistics don't paint a prntty pkturn. To begin. the preamble is a LONG SENTENCE. That drives thf1 Flesh Heading Ease Lnwl way up. What were Our Founding Fathers (sorry ladies) doing'? Nnxt, they usc~ the verb 'shall' wlwn they should use 'should.' And there's too many passive sentnncns, I R pereent. Unacceptable guys. And by tlw way. Pickney should have been named l'irky or Pinknyn. 
And now, for thn 59 word Auto Summary: 
Till·: CONSTITUTION OF TilE UNITED STATES 
"To borrow money on tlw credit of the United 
Stall's; Tlw nxerutivn powPr shall be vested in a 
prPsidcmt of tlu~ Unitml States of America. The right 
of dtii!Pns rof the United Stattls to vote shall not be 
dPniPd or ahridgt~d by thf1 UnitPd Statf1s or by any 
Statn on account of sex." 
In othnr words, the govf1rnment is here to take our money, giw it to thn president, but we're to blame bP.causn wn havc~ the right to votn. This must be somn cnH'I Microsoft conspiracy. 
SPcond. lnt's look at the Dedaration or lndnpnndnncn. No big grammaticalnrrors here. but 
T.l uses way too many pretentious vocab, 'hath,' and 'slwwn.' Only thH English talk like that. lie also uses way too many abstract nouns. 'usurpations,' and 'dissolutions.' The Dedaration has this much going for it. It has a 3R.7 perecnt Flesh Heading Ease Level. It !mats the Constitution by 1R.4 pHrcent. for those who earn to know. 
And now the Auto Summary from you know where: 
"We. then~forP, the Hepresnntatives of the united States of America. in General Congress, Assembled, appealing to the Supreme .Judge of the world for the rectitude of our intentions, do, in the Name, and by Authority of the good P1~ople of these Colonies, solemnly publish and declare, That these United Colonies am, and of Hight ought to bo Free and Independont States." 
Not bad. No playing around with fancy and under­used terms like Liberty and Equality. Just the plain fac:ts. We should be independent states. 
Finally, let's turn our attention to the Gettysberg Address. It's 30 pHreent Passive Sentences. Attention freshmen. don't write like that or you'll never make it out of creative writing. In spite of all the passive sentenees, it gets the best marks for Flesh Reading Ease Lnvd 65 percHnt. It's the only document a tenth grader eould write. 
And now for the summary: 
"Now wo are engaged in a great civil war testing whether that nation or any nation so coneeived and so dedicated, ean long endure. The brave men, living and dclad, who struggled hern, have consecrated it, far above our poor power to add or detract. Auto Summary is cruel, we're fighting a war, people have died, and there's nothing I can do about it." 
And now for the final test. At 66.4 percent, this artirle beats the Gettysberg address by 1.4 percent, and a sixth point ninth (6.9) gradHr could read it as opposed to the ten point ninth graders who have to sludgP tlwir way through the Gettysberg Address and the twelfth graders stuck with the Constitution and the Dedaration. And finally, the fifty word summary as WI~ spin ofT into the cyberspace set: 
Let's praetiee. 
JeffLangan is a graduate student in government. /lis column appears every other Friday. The l'iews expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
Tripp is Not Like Anyone I Know 
Revelations over the originality of Linda Tripp's tapes are still unfolding, but one fact is a certainty -Linda Tripp is morally lower than Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky combined. It is interesting how President Clinton's critics cry that he is morally unfit for office while remain­ing conspicuously silent on Tripp's Judas-like qualities. One reserved, usually non-critical Secret Service employee who worked with Tripp uncharacteristically offered an opinion by describing her t.!) fellow offic~~ as "one weirdly bazaar woman. 
Gary Caruso 

Upon conclusion of her grand jury testimony in late July, Tripp broke her silence to publicly tell the American public, " ... There has been a great deal of speculation about just who I am. Let me answer you simply: I'm you. 
I'm just like you." ~ Stretching her rhetoric to define herself as "normal" does not fool me. Linda Tripp is NOT anything like me, my friends, my family, my presi­dent nor the intern who con­sidered Tripp a confidant. None of us have cloven hoofs, pointed ears or manipulated a tape recorder to surreptitiously betray friends we have enticed to reveal their most intimate secrets. True friends do not manipulate others. Tripp claims to be just like us because, as she contends, she is an "average American who. found herself in a situation not of her own making." Yet it was Tripp, who after tasting her first fifteen minutes of fame during the Bush Administration, found herself testifying about the White House travel office before a Congressional committee dur­ing the first year of the Clinton Administration. Her fifteen­minute sequel addicted her to national public exposure like a vampire to blood. When President Clinton's attorney claimed that Tripp had not been truthful during her testimony, she set out to 
discredit the attorney's charac­
terization in a situation of her own making. Viewing herself as a seasoned political opera­tive, having by then logged a half-hour of fame, she consulted with a New York literary agent regarding a book contract. Together, the agent and Tripp discussed ways to gather enough material for the book, including the taping of conversations without the permission of the taped party. As a result, Tripp bought new bat­teries for her tape recorder and sought to earn the confidence of' Lewinsky when both of the women were exiled from the White House to the Pentagon. 
Tripp's "moments" of' fame epilogue will finally culminate when Independent Counsel Kenneth Starr ends his grand jury procedures. In all probability, a media organization will offer to purchase the rights to Tripp's story. Many sug­gest that the title of any work about Tripp should be called. "I was a Middle-aged Hypocrite." 
Tripp asserts that she has been "vilified for taking the path of truth." Presumably she exposed the relationship between the president and Lewinsky ... a matter a majority of Americans believe should be a private matter and should have nothing to do with evaluating the president's performance in office. It seems more likely that Tripp is a mean, vindictive, mis­erable woman who likes the taste of political bloodletting and public recognition. 
Her path to truth is obviously the road less traveled -the path to truth that began with lies, deception and the alteration of tapes. Do tho ends justify her dishonest means'? Did taping several hours of private conversations with Lewinsky, unbeknownst to Lewinsky at the timcl, do anything to better the presidency or our nation? Did her deception and dishonesty set a new standard for idealistic young persons to bn cautious about choosing a mentor when they first enter the working world after college? 
Catholics of my generation idolized President John F. Kennedy for breaking the religious bar­rier. Yet overcoming religious bigotry against our religion was not the primary reason we admired Kennedy, especially after he entered the office of the presidency. His style, wit and charm made the country fep,l young and vibrant. 
Today we know of Kennedy's human flaws and womanizing, which were kept from public scruti­ny while he was in office. We tend to have the same attitude towards KHnnedy that a majority of Americans have for President Clinton. It would be interesting to examine an exercise in which we could exchange Clinton for Kennedy. Either man would have perishHd in the 1960s if' the public and private life of the president had not been separated from the public eye. On the 
other hand, both men sur­Ivivn in the 1990s. 
Are the 1990s more permis­sive'? Our decade is more sophisticatHd and undnr­standing of human nature. Political motiva­tions by such sneaks as Linda Tripp have desensitized us as a society. Realities of modern life, like divorce, even among Catholies. bring new sensibili­ties to our nation today. 
ThH eventual revelation of President Clinton's "inap­propriate rela­tionship" is dis­appointing, but not a matter worth the time and effort attributed to it 

quarters into the Clinton presidency, the country is strong and the public is satisfied. The petty, underhanded, vindictive actions of the "bazaar" Linda Tripp, in the name of' truth and under the guise of' being "in a situation not of her own making," has distracted government leaders from important initiatives, embarrassed our nation throughout the world and turned us into arguing like children. 
People like Linda Tripp have intervened in the lives of' others throughout the ages ... mostly sans recorder. In their warped, greedy minds they justify accomplishing their ends by any means possible, including interfering with per­sonal liberties by violating societal laws. In Tripp's case, her darkest evil side drove her deception. 
My advice to Tripp is, "Sharpen your hoofs, Linda." In politics, as in everything else, what goes around comes around. Your boomerang has begun to return, and is about to land with quite a bit of momentum. 
Gary J. Caruso, Notre Dame '73, worked at the 
U.S. House ofRepresentatives for eighteen years and is a consultant in Washington, D.C. His col­umn appears every other Friday and his Internet address is Hottline@aol.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
'. 

w 
K E N D 
page 12--------------------OBSERVERTHE -------------Friday, October 9, 1998 

This Saturday will mark the first meeting between the Sun Devils of Arizona State and the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame. To honor the occasion, Scene examined some aspects of ASU's storied tradition. 
• 
From 1955-1957, former Irish football coach Dan Devine served as head coach of the Sun Devils. 

• 
Even with the aide of the great Dan Devine, the Sun Devils have failed to win a national championship in football. But they have won 15 national championships in men's archery, 21 in women's archery and 20 in mixed archery. The Sun Devils also excel in badminton, having won 13 men's titles, 17 women's titles and 10 mixed titles. 

• 
Sun Devil Stadium, home of ASU football, has hosted a national championship game ­Nebraska versus Florida in 1996 -and hosted the NFL's showcase, the Super 
.· Bowl. 

• 
Arizona State University is the fourth-largest public university in the United States. Originally founded in 1885, the school has three campuses-ASU Main, ASU East and ASU West. 


• 
The ASU marching band was the 1Oth university band to receive the Sudler Trophy-an award voted on by all NCAA schools with marching bands-and the first Pac-10 band to receive this presti­gious award. 


FAMOUS ASU ALUMNI 

ALMA MATER 
Where The Bold Saguaros Raise Their Arms On High Praying Strength For Brave Tomorrows From The Western Sky Where Eternal Mountains Kneel At Sunset's Gate Here We Hail Thee, Alma Mater Arizona State 
ASU FIGHT SONG Fight, Devils Down The Field Fight With Your Might and Don't Ever Yield Long May Our Colors Outshine All Others Echo From The Buttes, Give 'Em Hell Devils! Cheer, Cheer For A-S-U Fight For The Old Maroon For it's Hail, Hail, The Gang's All Here And It's Onward to Victory! 

Craig
Steve Allen 
David '45, '82 


Weatherup 
Al Michaels 
'67 '66
Spade'86 Honorary 
Chairman
Comedian, Doctorate 

Broadcaster 

Pepsi-Cola ABC Sports
writer· Entertainer 
Company
and author 



'I 
I 

w 
K E N D 
O THE 

Friday, October 9, 1998 BSERVER page 13 
Looking for something to do this weekend besides watch football? 


"Secret Love," as part of the "Landscape Connection" program at Saint Mary's, looks to include students from many departments. Muscians, singers, dancers and painters are some of 
the groups represented in the production. 
SMC play makes connec­tions to classroom material 
Special to the Observer 
"Sm:rnt Lnvn," John Dryden's 17th century restoration romance about lovn's intrigues and the tension between the sexes, will be pnrfornwd in tlw Moreau Center Little Theatre on Saint Mary's ram pus from Oct. H-11 th. Tonight's and tomorrow's shows will lmgin at X p.m. The Sunday performance will be at 2:30p.m. 
Katie Sullivan. a memb11r of the theatre faculty at Saint Mary's, will dirnet the produetion, assisted by Tom Bonnell, associate pro­fnssor of English, as dramaturg. One objective of the show is to involvo studm1ts from various departments. 
Consnqwmtly, the show will include a small pit orchestra, singing, dancing and painterly touches to the sets. Additional ofT-stage ele­rnnnts will bn ineorporated into the evening's entertainment to nvokn thn social atmosphnre of the Hestoration playhouse. For instanen, sevnral "orange-girls" will work the audience selling rnl'rnshm1mts. 
Tho play is a taln of two women. told in interviewing plots. An astutn. politically savvy queen anchors the heroic plot, which traces hnr struggle to maintain her power base as she represses an incor­md passion. 
The seeond woman stnllring the comic plot is a witty att!lndant to tlw queen who aims to cure an amorous eourtier of his rakish ways and get him to focus on their mutual inl'atuation and eommit himself to a nnw style of marriage. 
"Sn1:ret Love" is set in Sicily, where Mount Aetna dominates both landscape and imagination, troubling inhabitants with earthquakes and eruptions but also. paradoxically, supplying the region with imnHmSilly fnrtile soil. 
This production is part of a college-widn projeet titlnd "Landscapn Comwrtions," which integratns the landscape theme throughout rollnge roursllS and programs, providing simulating connections among dasses, studnnts and evnnts. The landseapc theme was inspirPd by tlw local rngional museum consortium's project, "Thn NalurP of l.andscapn." 
Tir.kllt costs an• $H.50 for adults. $7.50 for senior citizens, $6 for lllPIIllwrs of lhe Saint Mary's/Notre Dame community and $5 for sludPnts. Tickets are on sale at the Saint Mary's box ofliee, loealnd in ()'Laughlin Auditorium, open from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. For further information eall 284-462(,. 
ALSO SHOWING 
"Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' will be performed this week­end in Washington Hall. There will be Friday and Saturday shows at 7:30 p.m. Sunday shows will be at 2:30p.m. and 7:30p.m. 

-· 
... 
. ' 
'' 

r 
Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 14 
• COLLEGE fOOTBALL 
40-year-old plays for Fresno 
Associated Press 
FRESNO, Calif. Jeff Young is used to the jokes by now. 
"What? Alzheimer's settling in?" says 18-year-old Josh Wisniowski. needling him all the way to the locker room about the Beatles and other ancient history. 
Young, a divorced father and logger, takes it in stride. He knew it would come with the territory when, at 40, he decided finally to chase his dream of playing college foot­ball. 
"I get a lot of comments, but they're all in fun," said Young, one of four players vying for the punting job for the Fresno City College Rams. 
George Killian, executive director of the National Junior College Athletic Association, said he knows of no other player that old in the 537 schools his organization over­sees. His group. oversees junior college sports in every state but California and Hawaii. 
"We don't keep stats on that but I doubt we have anybody 40 or over. That would be a very rare exception," Killian said Wednesday. 
The National Collegiate Athletic Association doesn't track the age of players either, according to Rick Campbell, an NCAA football statistician in Overland Park, Kan. 
At least one player has Young heat: Chuck Roseberry was 46 when he played for Pennsylvania's Kutztown University in 1994. 
Young and his coaches have 

yet to get a good grasp of his 
talent. 
One of the leading candi­

dates for punter at the sea­
son's start, he pulled his ham­string after the first scrim­mage and was sidelined for the first four games. 
But he was back in full pads this week, and coach Vance Stanley says there's a good chance he will get to kick for the Rams before season's end. 
"I can't say anything but positive things," Stanley said. "He's worked really hard.. He has a positive attitude. He's a pleasure to he around, and an asset to the team in every way." 
The whim to play football has been gnawing at Young off and on since his 1976 graduation from Sierra Union High School, where his 43­yard punting average earned him all-league honors and col­lege offers. 
But Young put off those chances for personal reasons, mostly related to his .father's death from a heart attack. 
"1 had the opportunity to play but I didn't have t~e sta­bility to make a move at that time." he said. "I kind of with­drew and became unsociable. I didn''t want to leave the envi­ronment I was comfortable in." 
Instead, Young went to work felling trees and started a family, staying close to his childhood home near Shaver Lake, a town in the Sierra foothills about 40 miles north­east of Fresno. 
He didn't pick up a football for 15 years, until his sons grew old enough to play il'l Pop Warner leagues. He began thinking about a come­back when he volunteered as a high school coach and real­ized his right leg was still strong. He committed to his dream last year, after his marriage fell apart. 
"Once I became divorced, nothing was stopping me from going out for the team., if l could arrange my work sched­ule around it," said Young, who practices at least five afternoons a week and takes classes at night. 

Young, who holds an associ­ate's degree in liberal studies from Fresno City and is work­ing toward a teaching certifi­cate, is a self-described eccen­tric. 
Hfl has raised llamas, and jumps into his cross country skis every year to trek 20 miles to a remote lake to be the first to fish there. 
Two of his biggest boosters are sons Daniel. 18, and Riley, 16, who both followed in their father's footsteps by playing for Sierra Union. 
"They're not really sur­prised by anything I do," Young says. "Both think it's neat that I'm doing it. I seem to do everything the hard way." 
His busy schedule and split­ting wood all these years has kept him trim and youthful. Young feels he is in the same shape as he was 10 years ago, only he has to work harder to stay conditioned. 
And while some players think ifs strange playing with someone as old as their fathers, he has been accepted as an equal. 
''He's just another guy on the roster," says Wisniowski, a freshman and backup quar­terback whose dad is just a few years older than Young.. 
But even if he doesn't get the lead punting job, Young said he can go on to his next goal N moving north to teach elementary school and coach sports at any level N knowing he at least gave it his best shot. 
"I just love the game," he said. "I don't want attention. That's not my nature. This is about personal achievement." 
• GOLF 
Tiger Woods takes lead at Dunhill Cup 
Associated Press 
ST. ANDREWS. Scotland 
After Tiger Woods experi­encing his first Dunhill Cup team golf competition, Tiger Woods took a swipe at the attitudes that surround the high-pressure, nerve-wrack­ing Ryder Cup. 
"You don't get the boos, the hissing and the moaning that you get at the Ryder Cup," said Woods, who has teamed up with Mark O'Meara and John Daly as the United States trio in this $1.67 million. 16­nation championShip. 
"The fans here are more appreciative. There are a lot of good golfing fans out here. It's just a completely different environment. It's not life or death." 
Woods shot a 6-under-par 66 Thursday to overwhelm 
'EVERYONE NEEDS TO LIGHTEN UP A UTILE BIT'. 
MARK 0 'MEARA PRO GOLFER 
England's David Carter by eight strokes in the opening round. 
"When the Ryder Cup start­ed out, it was a friendly -
match. Now it's not like that any more," Woods said follow­ing his first competitive round at the home of golf. 
"This tournament is not the same, and that's one of the good things about it. The guys go out and play head to head and it's fun." 
Woods, who was on the United States Ryder Cup squad beaten by Europe at Valderrama last year. rBcalled how the match ~s spoiled by the huge buildup or hype which effectively kept the rival players away from nach other. 
"These guys on the European sidn. I know them. Some are good friends of mine," he said. "Unfortunately. I wasn't able to spend time with my friends. 
"We were told that Marbella was a great city. We really wouldn't know. We drove by it. We saw the hotel, the golf course and that's it." 
Mark 0' Meara, the American team captain here, has repeatedly hit out at the hype that surrounds the Ryder Cup and also at the lad of time the players are allowed to spend together off the course. 
"Everyone needs to lighten up a little bit," said O'Meara, who has played four Ryder Cups. "It's a very nerve­wracking situation. 
"It's a tremendous honor to represent your country and I'm not denying that the Ryder Cup has become a special event." 
"But sometimes you win. sometimes you lose, and when I lose, I don't think I'm a fail­ure because or that," said O'Meara, winner of this year's Masters and British Open. "There is always tomorrow. 
"There are a lot more coun­tries represented here and more atmosphere here," O'Meara said. "It's very com­petitive but more gentlemanly out here." 
The Observer accepts classitleds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Norre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifleds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right ro edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
with. Friends on the swingset,trips to  CALL 258-4805  FAX IT FAST!!!  Niles Haunted House  
NOTICES  the zoo.grandma, play groups,lulla-bies.too.This is a home where wish­ 93FORD TAURUS Wagon, Power  NO Footbaii·Buy-SeiLSeasonal and Individual Game Tickets. GA-only  Sending & Receiving at  Friday at 8 and 8:15 Five dollars  
es come true. We'd like to call to get  AC 133K V.Ciean $4290. Call  674-7645  THE COPY SHOP  Go.  
THE COPY SHOP  to know you.Call Shawn & Meg  2773254.  LaFortune Student Center  
LaFortune Student Center  800·767­ NO Football Tickets Needed.  Our Fax# (219) 631·FAX1  "It's not over yet"  
We're Open A Lot!!!  4257.Legai/Medicai/AIIowable exp.  JVC VHS camcorder with LCD  AM 232-2378 PM 288-2726  FAX IT FAST!!!  "It is for me, sister.  I'm not in this  
~on-Thur: 7:30am· Midnight  paid.  color monitor. Hardly used.$450 obo  for your revolution_  I'm in it for the  
Fri: 7:30 am • 7:00 pm  284·4127  NO FOOTBALL TIX  If you want to have fun, meet me at  money."  
....  Sat: Noon • 6:00 pm  FOR SALE  The Smoker. Oct 10 .  "If money is all that you love, then  
Sun: Noon -Midnight  Looking for a teaching job over­ 88 ESCORT, LOW MILEAGE  AM 232-2378  7·11pm, Turner's South Bend_  that's what you'll recieve."  
When you need copies.  seas?Monthly Bulletin of teaching  Good Condition, $1200  PM 288-2726  "Good. Now give me five bucks so  
we're open!  jobs outside the U.S.  233-7297 After 6PM  Retired nurse will babysit  I can go to the Niles Haunted  
English-speaking schools. $38·12  Need LSU tix  $3/hr_ Own car, refs.  House with Flip Side."  
issues, $22-6 issues  289-2918  289-0332.  
Early Spring Break  91 GEO Metro. 57K on engine/  TURNER'S HOLIDAY BAZAAR  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  Write: Overseas Academic  tranny! New paint, frt brakes.  ODYSSEY OF THE MIND  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  Opportunities,72 Franklin Avenue,  rotors, tuneup, cleaning.$3000.  Always buying and selting N D foot'  Interested? Call Aubree  SATURDAY, OCTOBER 24  
Awesome  Ocean Grove, NJ 07756  John: 289-7992W,  ball tickets. 289-8048  @ 4-3873 before fall break  8:30-2:30  
Beaches,Nightlife!Departs From  291-4132H  
·­ Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  Join Flip Side for a trip to the NILES  krupa, i hope you have fun in my  
Air.Hotei.Meals &Parties $339!Panama City Room With  FOR RENT  88 Honda Civic, blue, one owner, good condition, all dealer mainte- Will trade 2 Baylor tickets for 2 ASU tickets. Please call908-722-7901.  HAUNTED HOUSE Transportation provided!  clothes.  
Kitchen.? Free Parties  nance, 113,000 miles. $2800 or  Friday October 9  but not too much fun.  
$129!Daytona Room With Kitchen  1 ,2,3,4,5 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  best offer. Call 273 0928 (evenings  NO MOM NEEDS 5 ARMY GA'S- Cost:  $5.00 for all the fun in the  
$149!springbreaktraveLcom  CAMPUS. AVAIL NOW  or leave message)  PLEASE CALL 1-800-235-5568  underworld!  if we were here, we'd be reading  
1-800·678-6386  GILLIS PROPERTIES.272-6551  x2242  Buses leave NO from the Library  the classifieds.  
FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS!  Circle at BPM and from SMC in  
THE ALUMNI SENIOR CLUB WILL  That Pretty Place, Bed and  Bed box set not available in  FOR SALE:4 ARMY TIX-CALL  front of LeMans at 8:15.  but we are playing hooky from  
BE OPEN FOR THE ASU  Breakfast Inn has space available  U.S. call pete at 251-0178.  (((((((((  schooL  
GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  for football/parent wknds.5 Rooms  (516)269-3426 ASAP-BEST  IMPEACH CLINTON IMPEACH  
.;  DOORS WILL OPEN AT 2:15 FOR THE 2:30 KICKOFF.  with private baths.$80­$115,Middlebury,30 miles from  TICKETS  OFFER  CLINTON IMPEACH CLINTON Then go to the Haunted House.  ALLEN .  
(MUST BE 21, OF COURSE)  campus. Toll Road, Exit #107, 1-800­ Need 2 Baylor GAs.  I mean, we have to have priorities.  is that better?  
418-9487.  I NEED GA TIXS ALL HOME  Please call212-636-7472.  
WANTED  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR  GAMES.272-6306  THE OBSERVER will not be pub- Did I mention that FLIP SIDE will get you back to campus in time for  hi arney.  
ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE  TICKETMART Inc  lished during fall break so if you  your SYR?  Well. we wilL  So now  HAPPY 22 BIRTHDAY BeN!!!!  
SPRING BREAK '99!  TO CAMPUS_ 243-0658.  BUY·SELL-TRADE  have Army tix to sell, put your clas·  you have NO excuse.  sorry it is a day late.  
Cancun"Nassau· Jamaica•Mazatlan  Notre Dame Football Tickets  sified ad in before Friday, Oct 16.  
 
..  • Acapulco"Bahamas Cruise•Fiorida"South Padre  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY info:  258-1111 No student tickets please  Although your date will probably be scarier than anything in Niles .  love, heather  
Travel Free and make lots of  http://Business.michiana.org/bnbreg  Need 2 Baylor GAs ASAP  HAPPY 20th birthday UNCLE  
Cash!Top reps are offered full-time  219-291-7153.  Go ahead, make it a section event  MARK!  
staff jobs. Lowest price  FOR SALE  Top Dollar  sorry it is 2 days late.  
Guaranteed. Call now for details!  Large, 4bdrm house in Roseland.  FOOTBALL TICKETS  
www.classtravel.com  Big yard,garage. Walk to ND/SMC.  271-9412  631-6750  LOU.  LOU.  LOU.  LOU.  Not Bob.  Once upon a time there was a little  
800/838-6411  Faculty. staff, grad. AvaiL now.  But Lou.  No Bob, just Lou.  It's all  train_  The train went chao chao  
287-9342.  WANTED  2 Baylor GA's for sale.  Lou, Lou, Lou.  chao all the way through big tun- 
ADOPTION IS LOVE  NO FOOTBALL TICKETS  call Henry at 634-3520.  
 nels. The train carried people, coal,  
Happily married NO Alumni cou­pie, with adopted 3 year old daugh- FOR SALE  271-1526  Please leave message.  Lou would go to the Haunted House with Flip Side. He's just cool like  gas, even pretty animals. Every body loves trains. Except poor  
ter, wants to shower a new baby with love.Artistic full-time mom,ath- PREPAID PHONE CARDS  ND FtbL tix BUY-SELL  PERSONAL  that  Billy. Poor Billy's daddy jumped in front of a train and Billy's daddy  
letic lawyer dad, and a sister to play  198 MIN_ $20  674-7645  And now, a haiku:  didn't have insurance.  

Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 15 
Ken Milani, 
professor of accountancy 
at the 
University of 
Notre Dame and contributor to the 
United Way. 

"In our income tax classes and financial accounting classes, we occasionally discuss the subject of charitable contributions, but we rarely do so in terms of return on investment. Nevertheless, the returns my family and I have received from our 'investments' in the United Way over the years have been nothing short of miraculous. Fourteen years ago my son, Adam, then a senior at St. Joseph's High School in South Bend, sustained a terrible injury during a hockey game. As a result of the damage done to his neck and spine, Adam became a quadriplegic. 
"The community responded to our family's tragedy with prayers, cards, meals and money. Crucial support from United Way agencies enabled us to remodel our home to 
accommodate the new limitations on 

Adam's mobility, to obtain and equip a van for him to drive, and to provide him with a variety of special therapies. 
"Support from the community and from United Way agencies made it possible for Adam to focus on his studies while my family and I focused on Adam's care. He finished high school with his class, and four years later was graduated from Notre Dame as a member of the Phi 


Beta Kappa society. After graduation, he obtained a law degree from Duke University and returned to South Bend to practice law for four years. Now, after two years at the University of Illinois, Adam is a professor of legal writing at Mercer University in Macon, Georgia. 
"I can't guarantee that if you give to the United Way your 'investment' will bring you the blessings that our family received during a time of ordeal. But I can assure you, from experience, that United Way helps miracles happen." 
_.. 

I
I 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
Yankees see.k,,to;:liiH· recover V1S. lodiaos 


Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 16 
•NBA 

NBA players, owners hold talks 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND 

Chuck Knoblauch nearly needed a police escort to escape New York. When he arrived in Cleveland, it was the middle of the night but the Yankees second baseman already was the toast of the town. 
Knoblauch's boneheaded decision to argue with umpires while the Cleveland lndians scored the go-ahead run in the 12th inning, cost New York Game 2 in the AL champb
onship series. · · · By the time he reached his hotel room after the flight to 
.... 
Ohio, Knoblauch had run the play over in his mind hundreds of times. And after finally see­ing it on TV for the frrst time. 
he understood his failure. ·'''''' 
"I screwed up,'' he said'' starilast week in Game 4 

Thursday. 
An off day before Friday's third game provided the Indians and Yankees a chance to recover from Wednesday's thrilling 4-1 Cleveland win, which tied the series 1-1, 
Knoblauch, booed loudly by the Yankee Stadium crowd in his fmal at-bat in Game 2 and ripped in the New York papers with banner headlines such as "Blauch Head" and "Chuck Brainlauch," couldn't stay away. 
He needed to explain himself and ask forgiveness. 
"I screwed up the play, and I feel terrible about that,'' M said in an unscheduled appear­ance in· the interview room. "l should have went and got tb~:~ ball, regardless of what the outcome of the umpire's call was.... 1 need to apologize to my teammates and my manag~ er and the Yankees and all the Yankee fans. Bottom line, I screwed up the play." 
By admitting his mistak~·;·

Knoblauch· and the Yankee$ can now turn their attention to facing the Indians. Since falling behind 5w0 lll, the first inning ofGame l~'i Cleveland has slightly out~ played the team that won an AL record 114 games during the regular season and has been favored to win the World 
Series, 
New·····York· had plt!lity·'·of•·•· chances to go up 2-0jrfthe series. but failed in clutch situ­
ation$~l>gamel9ng....)'it ...· 
The Yankees were l~tor.;U with runners 1Ii scoring posi­tion, and after hitting .299 with men{l~~econd and third guring the regwar season, they're bat­ting just .182 (8~for·44) dl.lrirtg the postseason. 
"We bad so mail,ycha:tices to win thatgame earlier; aridwe didn't," Paul O'Neill said. "But so did the IndiaJ;lS. Hey, we lost one ga.me all,~ hopef1JJl~ »:~'ll 
come back arid rally around 
each other." 
In Game 3 face the h ·its t innings in Cleveland's 1 June 21.Colon was s · etrec~ye in lli~'!i.r§fP? c n 
against Boston. But after calm­ing down, the !tard-thro\<\fing right-~ander~.~l.:Q.ed · ed.. Sox on five hits ov ...,... 2-3 innings as ·. the Indians advan¢ed to their third charn­
pionship.seriestnfoury(l.ar~~ 
Cleveland manager Mike Hargrove said he hadn't sensed Colo11~~ jit~ers ti~ring his .first 
'post§el).son''l'i'8;()'ptin ... ·4· wouldn't mind seeing same shaky pitcher he saw last week. ..... · 
''lfM.wasseared inB~st(jrt;l hopeMhe's scared to .death tomor.row night," Hargrove 
said. ....•. .. ... . . ·. ..•. .. ... ••..• > The·lndians don'tseemt(l be scared of anything right now. 
Tbey act as if they've been here before. and they ha, l The bizarre way i11,which • , tied the series on Wednes ay has them thinking this could be anotbEI~ Octot>et to remember, 
"W~;h:e h().ping that play could give us. a kick," Jim Thome· said. ''It only takes one littl~thing t() give 
·me. 
momentum;'' .......... While the tabloids back East screamed fot Knoblauch's hea£l; ~ Cle':'~l~ii re.. mucb'ki:tider:The . . .·... of the Plain Dealer read: ''A gift from New York!" 
"t~qp(JJ 
row's> game ve said, · · 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Negotiators for the NBA play­ers and owners talked for about five hours today in their first for­mal session in about two months. 
The meeting at a Manhattan hotel was only the second formal bargaining session since the lockout began almost 3 1/2 months ago, and there was little hope of saving the start of the season. 
At stake was how the players and owners will divide almost $2 billion in annual revenues, and the impasse is almost certain to cause the league to call off 
games because of a work stop­page for the first time in its 52-year history . 
"The overall health of the league has to take prece­dence over that record of never missing a game," deputy NBA commis­sioner Russ Granik said before going into negotia­tions shortly after 10 a.m. 
Like Granik, union director Billy Hunter said his side would not not be offering any new conces­sions. 
"We're pre­pared to address, their concerns, we really are," Hunter said. "But it's not going to be a concession deal where they make demands and we con­cede." 
The owners 
and players 
have only a 
couple of days 
to come up with 
a deal that will 
save an 82­
game season, 
and such a 

seems unlikely with the sides far apart on the main economic issues. 
The regular season is sched­uled to begin Nov. 3. The last formal bargaining session was held Aug. 6, and owners walked out of the room after hearing the players' proposal. 
Commissioner David Stern and the owners claim as many as half of them are losing money. and the league as a whole is much less pro!itable than it was just a few years ago. 
The owners are seeking a sys­tem with cost certainty, looking to gradually roll back the amount of revenue devoted to player salaries from 57 percent to 48 percent. 
The players have offered some concessions, but are unwilling to accept a "hard" salary eap or give up the "Larry Bird excep­tion" that allows teams to exceed the salary cap to retain their own free agents. 
The entire exhibition schedule has already been canceled. 
"We feel that the NBA is making a lot of money. Everybody, for the most part, is doing financially OK," union president Patrick Ewing said. "So we don't see why they had to lock us out. If you asked David Stern, I don't think he would say that the league as a whole is doing bad." 
Notre Dame Footba11 vs. Arizona State 
San1rday, October 1 Qth 2:30p.m. LaFortune Main Lounge 
BIG SCREEN! FREE FOOD! 
~I 


Sponsored by the Student Activities Office 
breakthrough ......................................~_.............~...... 
.Nottze 'l)ame "!film, (];elevlslott, attd (];heatu pusettts 


Wed., Oct. 7 
7:30p.m. 
Thurs., Oct. 8 7:30p.m. 
Fri., Oct. 9 
7:30p.m. 
Sat., Oct. 10 7:30p.m. 
Sun., Oct. 11 .2:30p.m. 
Playing at Washington
ennessee Hall Reserved Seats $9
llliams 
Seniors $8 All Students $6 
Tickets are available at Lafortune Student Center Tlc!<et Office MasterCard and VIsa orders call631-8128 


'r 'J_!lJ.q 
page 17 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 9, 1998 

..J. 

• SPORTS BRIEFS 
Domer Hun -The annual Domer Hun is scheduled for tomorrow at 11 a.m. Hace begins at Stepan Center. It is a 3 milo run, 6 mile run and 2 milo walk. Pancake breakfast after the race. Hegister today at HecSports for $6 or before the race at Stepan CP.nter for $7. Proceeds benefit the Catherine Peachey Foundation, Inc. for Breast Cancer Hesearch. For more information, please contact HecSports at 631-6100. 
Challenge U Fitness -Fitness classes are half price after break. Stop by the RecSports office in the RSRC to register. Look for tho compltlte schedule on the HecSports web page. 
Yoga -A new yoga class will be held Mondays, 10/26-1217, from 7-8: I 5 p.m. in the HSHC. Hegistration begins Wednesday. Oct. 14, at 7:45a.m. at tht) HSHC. Space Is limited. 
Tai Chi -Hegistration begins Wednesday, Oct. 14, at 7:45 
a.m. at the HSHC. Classes will take place on Wednesdays, 11/4-12/9, l'rom 5:30·6:20 p.m. in the RSRC. Spactl is limited, 
Knockout Workout -Round 2 registration begins Wednesday, Oct. 14, at 7:45 a.m. at the HSHC. The class will btl held on Tfl'h. 10/27-12/8, 6:45-8 p.m., in the Joyce Center boxing room. Spaee is limitnd. 
Shoes & Soda 

Bring College ID @ Beacon Bowl Brought to you by Class of 1999 
Teams begin play in Japan 
Associated Press 
TOKYO 

Calgary Flames right wing Theoren Fleury knows some­thing about overcoming trans­Pacific jet leg to play hockey in Japan. 
lie made the trip for the Olympics in February. Now, he is back for the Flames' NIII. season-opening two games against the San .Jose Sharks this weekend. 
The teams open the series tonight in one of three NHL openers. In other action, it's Philadelphia at New York and Tampa Bay at Florida. 
"I never expected to be here twice in the same year," said Fleury, who played for Canada in the Nagano Olympics. 
Be said he has been advising teammates on how to mini­
... and discover hundreds of intriguing creations handcrafted by skilled artisans. Your purchase helps craftspeople provide food and education for their families. 
TEN THOUSAND 
VILLAGES.
• 

• NATIONAL HOCKEY lEAGUE 
Season openers provide emotion 
AjJjJly.for Assistant Ad Design Manager for The Observer Ad Design Office 
Required experience: Extensive knowledge of Quark Express, Photoshop, and Illustrator applications. 
Extensive application is not necessary. Just call Brett Huelat at 1-6900 and leave your name and number or drop off a description of your design experience at the Observer office in the basement of South Dining Hall. Sophomore or Junior preferred. 

mize jet lag and adjust their 
body clocks for the games 
Saturday and Sunday. 
"We've had good practices, 
and we're looking forward to 
the weekend and the start of 
the season," Fleury said. 
Before leaving for Japan, 
players of both teams com­
plained about traveling so far 
from home for thnir season 
opennrs. 
Since their arrival, however, 
the time changn has not 
seemed such a major problem, 
said Calgary defenseman Todd 
Simpson, the team captain. 
"To be honest, I haven't really thought about !jet lag]," he said, adding that the team will have five days off after returning home and that should be enough to readjust. 
"We're just going to focus on the weekend and worry about it later if we need to." 
This is the second year the NHL is opening games in Japan. 
Last year's series between the Anaheim Mighty Ducks and the Vancouver Canucks, with stars Mark Messier. Pavel Bure and Teemu Selanne, made more of a splash. 
Except possibly for Fleury, the players this time are less well known in .Japan. So, tlw strategy and game philoso­phies of the two head coaches, the Sutter brothers, have become a focus for local atten­tion. 
Calgary head coach Brian Suiter and his younger broth­er Darryl of San Jose are two of six brothers who have played in the NHL. The oldest, Brian, has coached in St. Louis and Boston. 
Daughter's illness may keep Odelein from opener 
Associated Press 
WEST OHANGE, N.J. 

Hobbie Ftorek would rather have defenseman Lyle Odelein miss the New Jersey Devils' sea­son opener in Chicago on Saturday night than have him 
leave  his  family,  following  
recent surgery on  his infant  
daughter.  

Odelein 's 5-month-old daugh­ter, Paulina, underwent two procedures at a Cincinnati hos­pital this week to help alleviate breathing problems caused by extra cartilage in her epiglottis, a flap behind the tongun that allows air into the lungs and food into the stomach. 
Surgerifls pHrformed Tu1~sday and Wednesday wenl the fourth and fifth for the child since she was born on April 21. 
The extra cartilage caused the child. the Odcleins' first, to have difficulty eating and breathing, which has kept her weight low. 
Ftorck, who will be making his debut as the Devils' head eoaeh against the Blaekhawks. said he is not counting on Odelflin on Saturday. 
"It's a pretty big thing going on there in Cincinnati, a lot big­ger than what's going to go on in Chicago," Ftorek said. 
Odelein, who broke into the Nl IL with Montreal in the 1989­90 season, was traded by the Canadiens to New .Jersey on Aug. 22, 1996. lie had played 79 games in each of the last two seasons. 
"HOWLINGLY FQN811 Everyone i• America Should 
See 'The Big One'!" 
M.;tl II 1),! Iiii'ltl 

"Michael Moore is the Robin Hood of co,.orate America!" 
... 

Cinema at the Snite 
Fri. & Sat. 8:00p.m. and 10:00p.m. Presented by ND Film, Television, and Theatre www.nd.edu/-cothweb 
~PECIAL Atx~£: 
INVITATION ~f).£0~} 
Announces the Following Introductory Offers of...C) 
rtoo;;~;"rfl r $is, r -$59-, r-$'37-, r-$7o-, I A d I I c & I Ic 1 . c t I I . I I H.1. . & I
ve a ut I o01, u I IMamcure and I I 1 atcs I I Retail.JI ~ 1..... & style .J .____1 1 Cut & Style_.1
L.__ .___Style .JI ___ Pedacurc .J ._ ___ 
*Please call to schedule your appointment• 
Stylist: This offer NOT valid with Cindy. ~--------------~
•NEW CUENTS ONLY• Please use the Spel'ial Savings invitation and g<tln Ad OlW!t be presented to n:c~ptionist 
know us. You'll he pleased with the quality and ser-befo~ services are perfomted vice we provide. and we will do our hcs11o merit your (ctataln n:Mrictions apply) l:Onfh.knrc and p:.Hronag.c. \V(' hope to SC't' you .won. L----------' 
Not valid for spiral perms. Long or tinted hair add $10. No Atria Salon other discounts apply. Open some evenings. Atria Salon 1357 N. Ironwood Drive reserves the right to refuse service to any client whose hair South Bend. IN 46615 condition is unsuitable. Expires 10/16/98. Tel. 219-289-5080 
r-
·~--,--------~ -~-­
page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Friday, October 9, 1998 
1 
I 
I • COLLEGE fOOTBAll 
1 
I 
I '-Hokies beat engangered
I 
Eagles 17-0 in Boston 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 
Virginia Tech's stingy defense overcame a sloppy offense and a game-long downpour as the 17th-ranked and unbeaten Hokies broke a tie for the Big East lead with Boston College, beating the Eagles 17-0 Thursday night. 
The Hokies committed six turnovers, five by fill-in quar­terback Nick Sorensen, but took advantage of repeated mistakes by the Eagles N three interceptions, a fumble and two blocked punts. 
Pierson Prioleau scored on an 85-yard interception return in the first quarter, Lamont Pegues ran in from the 2-yard line after a blocked punt in the third, and Shayne Graham followed a fumble recovery with a 29­yard field goal with 8:38 left in the game. 
Virginia Tech improved to 5-0 for the first time since 1967, while Boston College slipped to 3-2 with its second straight loss as both struggled to hang onto the wet ball dur­ing a steady rain. 
Boston College suffered its first shutout since Oct. 4, 1980, when it lost 21-0 at Navy, and its first at home since Sept. 15, 1972, when it was beaten 10-0 by Tulane. 
The Hokies have given up just four touchdowns all sea­son and recorded their sec­ond shutout. They have outscored opponents 146-30 and entered the game with 
the Big East's top-ranked defense, allowing 216 yards per game and just 58 on the ground. 
One of the few bright spots for Boston College on the rainy night was Mike Cloud, the nation's No. 5 rusher. He gained 186 yards on 32 car­ries, the fifth time he has sur­passed 100 yards this season. His biggest play, a 65-yard gain, led to his team's biggest disappointment. 
That run with about six minutes left in the third quar­ter gave the Eagles a first down at the Virginia Tech 23 and they moved to a first­and-goal at the 1. Quarterback Scott Mutryn was stopped for no gain, then fumbled and recovered the second-down snap. 
The Hokies came through again on third down, stopping Cloud for no gain. And on fourth down, Mutryn juggled the snap and was tackled for a loss as Virginia Tech got the ball with 1 :00 left in the quar­ter. 
Sorensen, a backup quar­terback last season who switched to free safety this season, started at quarter­back because of injuries to AI Clark and Dave Meyer. He threw two interceptions and lost three fumbles. 
Virginia Tech Jed only 7-0 at halftime as its deepest pen­etration came on its opening possession when it reached the Eagles 9. But Graham's 26-yard field goal attempt went wide left. 
•SKIING 
Elder creates 
skiing team 
for Granada 
Associated Press 
VIENNA, Austfia 
Jamaica has its bobsled team. Gr'enada now has its one-woman skiing team. 
ElfiEderJfas decicied to CCJ.~i)ete ·rot Grenada after leaving • the Austrian team in a dispute with the country's skiing federation. "I want to become No. 1 again," said Eder. silver medal-· 


• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBAll 
Prognosis good for New York's Darryl Strawberry 
Associated Press 

NEWYOHK 
Darryl Strawberry was given an optimistic medical report Thursday and doctors said the New York Yankees outfielder probably will be sent home this weekend. 
Doctors removed a 16-inch portion of Strawberry's large intestine during a three-hour operation last Saturday to get rid of a 2 112-inch cancerous tumor that nearly obstructed his intes­tine. 
"Doctors are optimistic that he will make a complete recovery and return to full activities, including playing major league baseball next season," Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center said in a statement. 
Strawberry probably will be sent home Sunday. Doctors said they anticipated he will undergo one round of chemotherapy. 
"Tell everybody I feel stronger every day," Strawberry told Rick Cerrone, the Yankees' director of media relations in a phone call to the team clubhouse dur­ing workouts at Jacobs Field in Cleveland. 
''I'm confident this will be a successful process," Strawberry went on to say. "When you are in a situation like this you put yourself in your doctors' hands. I share their confidence." 
A microscopic examination of tissue removed from Strawberry showed no indications the tumor had spread. The margins of the colon were cancer-free, as was his liver. 
Doctors said 35 of 36 lymph nodes removed from Strawberry during the three-hour surgery were cancer-free, but one lymph node contained evidence of the tumor. 

LEWIS HALL 3rd Annual 
Friday, Oct. 9th 5:00-7:00 PM at the Lewis Sand Volleyball Court 
... 
Live entertainment! Food! Prizes! 
Teams of 5 (coed is okay) $5 registration fee per team---sign up-there! 
All proceeds benefit Camp Albrecht Acres 
-~--~----~-------~------~-~­
page 19 The Observer • SPORTS 
• MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYOFFS 
Brown leads Padres over Braves 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA 

Maybe the Atlanta Braves should just sign Kevin Brown this winter. 
That way. they wouldn't have to worry about him beating them ear.h fall. 
Tlw lifelong Georgia resident piekPd up exactly where he left oil" last October, pitching another gnm at Turner Field to give the San Diego Padres a 3-0 win Thursday night and a 2-0 lead in tho NL championship series. 
Brown, who won twice at Atlanta in the 1997 NLCS while with Florida, shut down the Braves on only three singles. Belying on his heavy sinker and a nasty fastball in the mid-90s mph, he struck out 11 and low­emd his EHA this postseason to 
0.38 in three starts. 
"It's definitely sweet when you have success here." Brown said. "I neml to find some wood to knock on. I feel pretty good right now." 
Brown outdw~led Tom Glavine and lwlp1~d with his bat. too. lie singlnd with two outs in the sixth inning to set up Quilvio Veras' HBI singh\ and also singled and scored in a two-run ninth. 
"They were timely," he said. "That's one of the reasons I real­ly enjoy the National League play. You don't always swing the bat good, but once in a blue moon, you get a chance to con­tribute." 
The Padres traded three prospects to Florida in the off­season to get Brown, and his postseason performances against Houston and now Atlanta have been well worth it. 
Brown is eligible for free agency after this season and per­haps the Braves, despite their great rotation, would be better off getting the right-hander and keeping him out of the way. 
"I knew when we got him that he would make a big difference, but I didn't know he would make this kind of impact," Padres manager Bruce Bochy said. "When Kevin Brown is on, he's as tough as any pitcher in the game. Hight now, he's locked in." 
San Diego won without 50­homer man Greg Vaughn, out of the starting lineup for 3-4 days because of a strained left quadri­ceps. Game 1 star Huben Hivera took his place, but Brown was all the Padres needed on this night. 
A crowd of 43,083, about 

8,000 short of a sellout, spent the last couple of innings booing the Braves' futility against Brown. 
"We hit two balls good all night," Braves manager Bobby Cox said. "Against us, this is the best I've seen him." 
Atlanta is appearing in its sev­enth straight NLCS, but never has faced an 0-2 deficit. In fact, no team has ever lost the first two games at home and come back to win a league champi­onship series since the best-of-7 format began in 1985. 
Game 3 will be Saturday at San Diego, with Greg Maddux pitching for the Braves against Sterling Ilitchcock. The Padres are hoping for a big weekend at home to reach the World Series for only the time, the first since 1984. 
"We can't feel good about being 0-2, but we have the type of club and pitching that we could easily reel off four in a row," Cox said. 
With Brown and Glavine work­ing on a cool and windy night, the forecast was for good pitch­ing. And that's how it played out, with Brown throwing his hard stuff and Glavine tossing his oll"­speed deliveries. Glavine was not particularly sharp, however, walking a season-high six. 
It was 0-0 until the sixth, when Chris Gomez, Brown and Veras each singled with two outs. Brown made his only mistake of the game on Veras' hit when he slid head-first and was thrown out at third. 
Not that Brown needed it, but 
the Padres scored two insurance 
runs in the ninth off Odalis 
Perez. Brown's leadoff single set 
up RBI singles by Steve Finley 
and Wally Joyner. 
Glavine did his best, even hit­
ting one of the Braves' singles. In 
Wednesday night's 3-2 loss in 10 
innings, the 20-game winner 
was used as a pinch-hitter and 
walked. 

Last Chance 
Student Activities Mandatory Club Meeting 
TODAY 
5:00 pin 

Montgomery Theater in LaFortune Student Center 
If you haven't attended on of the first four, don't miss this one! 
Any questions, please call Ryan at 1-7309. 
P.S. Please check your club mailbox in the CRC (314 LaFortune) 
Friday, October 9, 1998 
.­


Hockey 
continued from page 24 
while playing like an average team at home last season. 
It was not a matter of the team lacking confidence or not focusing, according to Poulin, but perhaps a matter of inex­perience. 
"I think it was just a case of a young team trying to do too much on home ice," said Poulin. "You see that especial­ly on special teams. We have to have a home ice advantage to win in this league." 
Lake Superior State brings plenty of history with them into the Joyce Center, having won two national champi­onships in the nineties. 
The game will serve as a good measuring stick for the Irish, given that Notre Dame went winless versus the Lakers last season, going 0-2­1, including a loss and a tie on home ice. The Irish and the Lakers finished last season with an identical conference record, both at 12-14-4, but in virtue of their head-to-head success versus Notre Dame, Lake Superior finished sixth in the CCHA while the Irish fin­ished seventh. 
Western Michigan opens conference play this weekend coming off a tough season which saw them finish ninth in the conference with a record of 9-19-2. The Irish swept a home and away series against the Broncos early last December, winning 2-1 on the road and 4-2 at the Joyce Center. 
There certainly are no easy wins in the CCII/\, however, a lesson the Irish learned quick­ly after the Broncos waxed them (more than a 5-3 score might indicate) late last sea­son in Kalamazoo. 
Playing their first conference games, as well as their first home games, are freshmen centers David Inman and Brett Henning, along with Cornelius. With a banged-up defense corps, Cornelius should see ample playing time over the weekend, along with Sean Seyferth. Henning and Inman saw action both at even strength and on special teams last Saturday against the Badgers, and look for more of the same this weekend. 
Poulin showed great confi­dence in his young players last weekend in Madison by play­ing them, confidence which was amply rewarded. 
"They [the freshmen) estab­lished quickly that they can play at this level, playing with and against some good veter­an players, guys who have played a lot of hockey," said Poulin. 
Thinkofus 
as your
scHool bus. 

semester breaks or heading home lor your sister's wedding, if going home means catching a plane at MKlway or O'Hare, the best way to the airport is United Limo. 
Frequent service, all day from campus gets you there on schedule. And when it's time to hit the books again, we'll pick you up at the airport and bring you back to school. No hassles, no problems. 
For Information and schedule consult your travel agent or caN 
800-833-5555 
www.busville.com 
UNITED Ll~10 
Your Airport Connection, O'Hare & Midwsy, All Day.•• Ewry Day 
United Limo to the Chicago Airports 
Leave Notre Dame  Arrive Midway  Arrive O'Hare  
Main Gate  {via Tri State Coach­ Terminals 1, 2, & 3  
transfer in Portage)  {International terminal  
15 minutes later)  
4:00a.m.  6:10a.m.  5:55a.m.  
6:00a.m.  8:10a.m.  8:20a.m.  
8:00a.m.  10:10 a.m.  9:55a.m.  
9:00a.m.  11:10 a.m.  10:55 a.m.  
10:00 a.m.  12:10 p.m.  11:55 a.m.  
12:00 p.m.  2:10p.m.  1:55 p.m.  
1:00 p.m.  3:10p.m.  2:55p.m.  
2:00p.m.  4:10p.m.  3:55p.m.  
4:00 !'l.m.  6:10p.m.  5:55p.m.  
6:00p.m.  8:10p.m.  7:55p.m.  




Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 20 


Men's 
continued from page 24 
eight goals, ineluding three gam!' winners, and has a total of 20 points on the team. 
Hight behind him in the records and alongside him on the field is Ryan Cox. The senior forward has given the Irish attack a second threat in his amassing of a team-lead­ing six assists. 
The duo has been involved in nine of the 18 Irish goals this year. 
Goalkeeper Greg Velho and the rest of the Irish backfield will have its work cut out for them this weekend, especially in tonight's game against the Broncos. Ranked 18th in the National Soccer Coaches Association of America, Santa Clara has had good luck thus far facing ranked opponents. They will face No. 22 Notre Dame with a 2-1-0 record against ranked opponents. 
Fresh off a victory against No. 12 Maryland, head coach Mitch Murray will count on sophomore forward Ari Rodopolous to again lead his team. In addition to scoring the game-winning goal in the Maryland upset, Rodopolous is second in the wee in total points with 15. 
On the opposite side of the Bronco's field stands goal­keeper DavidAlexander. The senior needs just one more shutout to tie the school's record for seventh place for career shutouts. Helping out Alexander is a Santa Clara defense that has allowed just six goals in 10 games. 
Just two days later, the Irish will move along the coast to face Saint Mary's for the first time ever. The Gaels should provide the Irish with a bit of relief from the stronger play of Santa Clara. Holding just a 4-5-0 record this season, Saint Mary's has registered the second-lowest total points of any team in the 
wee. 
50827 Princess Way, Granger 247-0000 
Formerly Princess Way across from Big C Lumber 
II 
Lunch or Dinner Sandwiches, Salads, Specials, Steak, Chicken, Seafood, & Pizza Friday Night All You Can Eat Fish Special Saturday Night All You Can Eat Crab Legs Live Weekend Entertainment 18 TV's for Football Monday Night Football Watch your favorite games including 
Notre Dame 
r------------------------------------------------,
: $1.00 Off 14" or 16" Pizza : 
~=~~===~~~~~=~~==~~~~~~~-~~ 

• WoMEN's INTERHALL FooTBALL 
P.E. defeats Lewis in championship rematch 
By SARA ELBERTS 
Sports Writer 
With the end of the regular season approaching, women's interhall football teams fought hard to improve their records Wednesday night. 
Pasquerilla East 18, Lewis 13 
In a thrilling first game -a rematch of last year's champi­onship -Pasquerilla East scored in the final minutes, defeating Lewis 18-13. 
Pyros quarterback Elizabeth Plummer connected with Kristen Carey for the winning touchdown. 
PE had scored in the first series to go ahead 6-0, after which the two teams traded off scores. Lewis then made a one­point conversion after a touch­down to take the lead 13-12. 
This lasted until the Pyros' defense came through, stop­ping Lewis twice and setting up the come-from-behind victory. 
"We kept our poise," said Plummer on what helped PE win. 
Off-Campus 24, Welsh 0 
The mercy rule was employed to end the second game early, with Off Campus shutting out Welsh 24-0. 
Lisa Thode, who scored two touchdowns, ran for the first Crime points on an option from quarterback Britta Hyllegren. 
At the beginning of the sec­ond half, Christina Hascall intercepted the ball and ran for the second Crime touchdown. Molly McDannel later scored the touchdown that put the mercy rule into effect. 
Off Campus defensive line­man KC Dugal helped shut out Welsh by rushing the quarter­back throughout the game. 
"The entire coaching staff is 

proud of the team," said coach Chris Mignanelli. This was a big win for the ten player Crime team. 
Lewis 2, McGlinn 0 
In the final game of the night, 

the Chickens of Lewis finished their doubleheader by defeat­ing McGlinn 2-0 on a safety. 
The game was scoreless until the middle of the second half when the ball was downed in McGlinn's end zone, giving Lewis its two points. 
Lineman Amanda Deerhake of Lewis made two key recep­tions to keep Lewis going. Dina Brick helped Lewis hold its lead with a big interception with 40 seconds left as McGlinn throated to come back and score. 
orWt~lmus~c 
T""'IC""f!ISilfr•lC"it!·U.S.lO·llll<'.Snt IOiriaoSI!fr•l c~f« ·W..ost•"Oi''·lllli!J!ZI caorusSI,opros·Sf!ftR•W·llllVk"" 
&. 
. 

SATURDAY Oct. lOth 7:00pm vs. Western Michigan 

~----------------------------·---------­
friday, October9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
ND must 'Wake up the echos' 
By TED FOX 
NewsWritrr 

Wake up the echoes. 
Wn !war this everywhere wn go o11 campus. nvPrywlwre them an~ alumni. evnrywlwrn tlwrn an• Notn~ I >anw tilOtball fans. 
ThP Pcho<~s of Notre I>arne football. you ask'! Tlwy aw IPg­ntHis that havn inhabited llw sta­dium and tlw lockl'r room. that have walked through tlw tunnel onto tlw field and walkl'd hack towards tlw optm arms of Touchdown .Jnsus. 
They an• lfw gridiron lwroes of ynstm·yi'ILI" who brought home morn IIPisman TI'Ophit~s and national titles than anymw else in tlw country. 
ThPy an• tlw nanws you !war spri11kiPd throughout football history: tlw Four llorsnmnn. llocknn, Montana, Hudy, Hor.ket, BnrtPIIi. Brown. lloltz. Leahy. .Just to nanw a li•w. 
Tlw Prhot~S of llw past live in tlw con lines of tlw Notn~ I>anw stadium. 
It's important to draw a dis­linr·tion lwn~. ThPrn is Notn~ Danw Stadium. tlw huge eon­crete structure that now domi­
nates the eye. 
And then there is the Notre Dame Stadium that is the brick mainstay living on the inside of the new shell. This, my friends, is wlwm Irish echoes live. 
This is where the legends came to play, whore the players of today strain to hear the advice from the past in tlw hopes of becoming the legends of tomor­row. 
/\nd if you go down there at thn right tinw of day, you might just hear thmn whisp<w to you. 
or course, you can't get right up to tlw brick walls anymore lweausn of tlw huge wrought iron fnnees. The brown brick lurks in the shadows, no longer hoast.ing to the world. "We are ND." But it still talks. 
Tho locker room door. which shows the privi!Pged way into thn depths of tho Stadium. the !wart of Notre Dame football, is now itsdf imprisoned by the same wrought-iron bars that capturnd the briek. But it still signals the entrance to lilOtball pamdisn. 
Windows that saw the hopes and drnams of an entire li>otball­loving population rise and fall 


after every game on the field 
inside now open up to an artifi­cial ceiling and immense gray 
pillars. But they're still there. 
Opposite the stadium, Touchdown Jesus still signals each Irish score, although the concrete giant blocks our view lrom receiving I lis 
applause. But lie is still exdaiming, "It's good!" as has been the case for years. 
These are the reasons why athletes come lum~ from all around to play. to wear the gold helnwt, and why they play like a champion not just today. but everyday. 
These athletes and their !ega­des am why Notm Dame is known all around the world. 
And even though their Notre Dame, the Notre Dame of their dreams, the Notre Dame football team that brought them the highest of highs when it won and brought them tears when it lost has had its "field of dreams" hid­den, it will not be forgotten. 
Need proof? 
Just go down to the Stadium sometime whrm it's quiet. Peer through the security fences and sec the home of Notre Dame football. the essence of Notre Dame, within. 
The wind rushing around you might seem a little louder, and you'll swear you can faintly hear the elatter of spikes long since thrown away leaving the locker room and heading to war, living the dmam. 
Maybe you'll get chills as you hear the entire stadium chant in unison: "Hudy, Hudy" and then sep, the man who beat all odds to play here be carried ofl' the field on the shouldf\rs of his team­mates, coming right towards you. 
You might hear the cry go up from the locker room: "Win one for the Gipper!" and be ready to rush onto the field yourself. 
Saint M"ary's College Notre Dame 
26TH ANNUAL 

LONDON SUMMER PROGRAM 
MAY 19TH -JUNE 18TH, 1999 


page 21 

•• MEN's CROSS COUNTRY 
l},~rriers to compete at B6:b Stevens Invitational 

By ALAN WASIELEWSKI 
Spans Writer 
The Notre Dame men's cross .country team will soon fmd out just how good it is. 
The Irish are ranked 11th 
and are due to run this week­
end at the Bob Timmons 
Invitational in Lawrence. Kan. 
The team is coming off a sec­
ond place finish in the 
adidas/Notre Dame 
Invitational, held la..'>t weekend 
on the Notre Dame Golf Course. 
Hevenge will be a factor for 
the Irish, since No. 4 North 
Carolina State was the team 
that edged the Irish, and the 
Wolfpack will be in attendance 
at Lawrence. 
This is the most significant 
meet of the year so far. lt is a 
pre-national meet run on the 
same course as the 1998 NCAA 
Cross Country Championships, 
which are just weeks away. 
Even though the Irish were 
beaten last week. they should 
be confident at this meet. 
Instead of the short 8K course 
run at the adidas/Notre Dame 
Invitational, the course in 
Kansas is 1OK. As evident by 
the strong finishes of the Irish 
runners at the previous 8K 
races, they will have plenty left 
in the tank at the end of this 
race. 

"We have been training for 
1OK all year. Our finishing 
mile is our strength," said 
sophomore Ryan Shay, who 
has been one of the top two fin­ishers in all three meets this year. 
Said head coach Joe Pia11e of last week's meet, "NC State was tough, but we were mov­ing up at the end. We expect a better finish with a Iong~H race." 
NC State is just one of many powerful teams that will run at the Bob Timmons. Top-ranked Stanford and No. 3 Colorado are also in the field. 
Freshman Luke Watson is also excited about the competi­tion he will face for the first time. 
"Even second place last week was sub-par for us," said Watson. ''Our finish will tell the tale this weekend." 
A strong trio of sflniors lead the lrish. Antonio Arce. llyan Maxwell and Tim Englehardt all finished in the top 35 at the last meet and should improve on that on the longer com·se at Lawrence. 
"This is the time to step up and face the challenge,» Piane stated. "The competition will be the best of the year and we will find out just how good we are." 
Already counted among the top teams out of over 300 in the nation, thnt ls not good enough for the Irish runners. They believe they have top-10 talent. and this weekend gives them the opportunity to prove it. 
• 

{Y") NOTRE DAME ~ ~ APARTMENTS 'u;;J 
•ONLY 
AFEW LEIT!! 

•
Conveniently located 4blocks from Campus 

•
Spacious 2Bedroom Apartments and Duplexes Available 

•
September-May Lease or 1Year Lease with a"free" month's rent 

•Pre-Leasing 
for Fall of'99 


-· 

uT~u~ lB<est Value nn Off-Camp'l.Us Iiousung"
l'rofessor David Stefancic Profe~sor Tom Parisi 
54 Madeleva Hall, Room 347 37 Madeleva Hall, Room 152 Suint Mary'~ College Saint Mary's College 
Managed By 
Notre Dame, Indiana 46556. Notre Dame, Indiana 46556 
Real Estate Management Corportation 
(219) 284-4462 (219) 284-4529 e-mail: dstefanc(a)saintmarys.cdu e-mail: tparisi@saintmarys.edu 
234-9923 
fax; London Summer Program (219) 2114-4716 
• 
-----~~-­

Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 22 
• VoLLEYBAll 

Hitters look to even up record 

By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Spans Wri1er 
The Notre Dame volleyball tPam hits the road this weekend for three East Coast match-ups against Connecticut, Fairfield and St. John's. 
Tonight's match will be at Connecticut, the third Big East foe for the Irish this season. 
"They have a very experi­Pnced team," said Notre Dame head coach Debbie Brown. "Most. if not all of their starters are back from last year. I think we match up well against them. They're a very good ball control team and they dig a lot. 
Thny're kind of like Illinois Stat<~. so it should be a very competitive match." she said. 
Connecticut is 11-9 this sea­son. and like Notre Dame, is off to a 2-0 start in the Big East. OnP loss for the Huskies came at thP hands of New Hampshire, a team which the Irish beat. 
Connecticut is under the lead­ership of first-year head coach Kelli Myers. Myers is assisted by former Notre Dame star Christy Peters, a third-team all­American in 1993-94, who still holds a number of Irish records. 
The team has all six starters back from last season. Two seniors pose the main threats to the Irish on offense: outside hit­ter Annette Ryan and opposite Jenelle Koester, each of whom has more than 270 kills this season. 
Koester also is key for the 

-.... Huskies on ddense, with over 300 digs to date. Middle blocker Chanice Harris leads Connecticut with 7 4 blocks this year. Notre Dame has never lost a game to the Huskies, and seeks to extend its perfect record in Big East matches since joining the conference. Tomorrow, the Irish will trav­el to Fairfield, Conn., to take on the Fairfield Stags for the first time in Notre Dame history. The Stags are 1 7-1 so far this season under fifth -year head coach Todd Kress, with their only loss coming against Texas­El Paso. All six starters return from last year's NCAA qualify­ing team. Five of Fairfield's players have over 125 kills in 1998, including Corinne Carlson, who is hitting over .300 and aver­ages more than three digs per game. Junior setter Liz Bower is averaging nearly 12 set assists per game for the Stags. "They seem to be a pretty strong up and coming pro­gram," said Brown. 
..... 
The Notre Dame Volleyball team looks to raise this season's record to .500 as it takes on east coast rivals St. John's, Connecticut and Fairfield. The Irish play at Connecticut tonight. 
The Irish will go up against the St. John's Red Storm Sunday in a Big East match. St. John's is 11-10 in 1998, with an 0-2 start in the conference. Notre Dame has never lost a game to the Red Storm. 
In four years under head coach Joanne Persico-Smith, the Red Storm is 69-57. 
"Notre Dame is very solid, and they have a very good set­ter," said Persico-Smith. "We know that offensively, they're very powerful and have never lost a match in the Big East. We also know that they're very well-coached, so they pose quite a challenge for us. 
This year, the team is led by 6'2" junior middle blocker Joi Thomas, senior setter Connie Chae and senior outside hitter Kristine Knobel. 
"I think they're a little bit more prone to error than Connecticut," said Brown. "It'll be key for us to stop Thomas. Player to player, we match up well. We should be able to con­trol the tone if we don't let mental fatigue be a factor, since it will be our third match of the weekend." 
Several of Notre Dame's play­ers are near the top of the Big East in statistics this season. Junior middle blocker Mary Leffers, who has started just two matches since returning from off-season surgery, leads the conference in league hitting 
A Benefit for the Catherine Peachey Fund, Inc. for Breast'CQ.iicer·Research 
3 & 6 MILE RUNS, 2 MILE WALK AND
Js~Fo~~~:i~~~ro~ l 
---',.li:fflt ·"'~·'····· ,. ,, 

T-SHIRTS TO"ALL;FiNISHERS · ,,_, ~ .. _.," 

REGISTER IN ADYANCE AT RECSPORTS 'L 
$6.00 IN ADVANCE-~AND $7.00DAY OFR'At:E 'l' STUDENT AND STAFF DIVISIONS 

percentage (.462) and blocking at two blocks per game. Freshman Kristy Kreher is sec­ond in hitting and sophomore setter is fourth in assists. 
Overall, the Irish are first in the Big East in team hitting percentage and fourth in team assists. 
Senior captain Lindsay Treadwell has increased her career hitting percentage to .310, and remains first in the Irish record books. Boylan moved into fourth place for career assists against Illinois State, and is second in career assist average at 11.91. 
This weekend's matches con­tinue a seven-match road trip for the Irish. 
Soccer 

continued from page 24 
brings a spark to this team. But I do think the people we have in for her will do a line job." 
Jenny Heft has emerged as one of the best scorers in the nation. 
With three goals last week· end, Heft upped her average to 1.36 goals per game, good for third-best in the country. She has 15 goals in 11 games for the Irish. 
The Irish offense is ranked second in the country, averag­ing 4.64 goals per game. Their explosive offense will be test· ed this weekend, though, with Makinen out of the lineup. 
Also, they will be going up against three-time Big East goalkeeper of the week, Boston College's Courtney Schaeffer. 
Schaeffer leads the Big East with her 0.13 goals-against average in conference match­es. She is working on four consecutive shutouts overall and six consecutive shutouts in Big East play. In addition, Schaeffer has not given up a goal in a conference match in 681 minutes. 
"It's always tough to score on them," Grubb said. "They always have a lot of people in the box and their goalkeeper does a good job for them. I think it's important for us to go out and get some early goals against them." 
Boston College is 7-3-2 over­all and 4"1-2 in the confer­ence so far this season. 
Providence, on the other hand, is a dismal 2-9 this sea­son. The Friars are coming off a 2-0 loss to Holy Cross, but have a game against Loyola­Chicago on Friday before squaring off with the Irish on Sunday. 
The Irish defense will look to continue its dominance this weekend. 
"I think the defense has played well," Grubb said. "We haven't given up too many shots ot· good opportunities. So that is comforting to know." 
These two games will serve as a warm-up for the Irish's next big contest: A trip to Hartford to take on the fourth-ranked Connecticut Huskies. But the Irish are not getting too far ahead of them­selves. 
"We have to play one game at a time,'' Grubb said. "We have to worry about these two games and not look ahead to UConn just yet." 

The UmveJtmy OF Nonu Dame DepmnmenT OF Mus1c pResenTs GuesT ARTISTS 
The MUll{ Q.._ua1{TeT 
Tzckers aT rhe 

$10 GA LaFor<.rune Box 
$8 ND/SMC 0Fpce, $6 SenzoRS 
631-8128 
$3 Srudenrs 

2:00pm, Sun3ay, OcrobeK 11, 1998 Annenher«; Au~zTOKlUOJ 
T
o mark National Coming Out Day, the Standing Co1runittee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs invites all men'lbers of the Notre Drune conunw1ity to drop by the Sorin Room to show your support for Notre Dame's gay and lesbian community and to meet representatives of campus resources for gay and lesbian students. 
Date:  Friday, October 9, 1998  
Time:  11:00 a.m-2:00p.m.  
Location:  Sorln Room, First Floor,  
LaFortune Student Center  

l{efreshments will be served! 



page 23 
The Observer • TODAY 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF NO 
DAN SULLIVAN 
SO WOULD YOU L./Kc 10 

I HAV£ /o PICK So/1£ ~ 

J'ASoN  THERE'S A SAYING 11-IAT  I  FIGURE IF IT CAN  oH, MAN -CHECK  AtTUI.LLY,  
WRoTE  IF You PuT ENOU6tl MoNKEYS  WoRk FoR "HAMLET."  ouT THE GIBBERISH  THAT  
MEA  11'4 FRoNT of TYPEWRITERS,  WI"IY NoT AL~ FoR A  DN THIS ONE  WAS MY  
ONE WILL EV£1'(1\lAI..LY BANG  "AAMLEl" Boot<; REPoRT'!  PAGE. I  ATIEMPT  
ouT THE WoRKS oF SHAkESPEARE.  \  AT THE ESSAY.  
\  I  

Friday, October 9, 1998  
YOUR HOROSCOPE  EUGENIA LAST  - 
CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: john Lennon, Sean Lennon, jackson Browne, Zachary Ty Bryan Happy Birthday: Life can be pret· ty good if you don't let your temper get in the way of your accomplish· ments. You must learn to let others do their own thing and set your priori· ties on looking out for yourself. If you are willing to let your creative imagi­nation lead the way, you wiU be able to develop unique contributions to organizations you join as well as to your chosen field. Your numbers: 7, 10, 16, 25, 38, 43 ARIES (March 21-April 19): It's time to get involved in activities that will enable you to help those Jess for­tunate. Take a look at legalities that are pending. Don't let friends hold you back. 0000 TAURUS (April 20-May 20): Do a little soul-searching before you make a decision. You will have trouble emo­tionally if you let your stubbornness stand in the way of making a compro­mise. 000 GEMINI (May 21-)une 20): It will be best to listen to what others have to say rather than to voice your opin­ion. Work on making personal changes that will enhance your popu· larity. Difficulties while traveling should be expected. 000 CANCER (june 21-July 22): You need to get out and enjoy yourself. You have been hanging on to a bad situation too long. join groups that will help build up your confidence and self-esteem. 000 LEO (july 23-Aug. 22): Don't rely on others to complete jobs that you are involved in. You can bet that someone you work with will not be too eager to help you look good.  0000 VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22): You will learn if you listen. Someone you know well will reveal information pertinent to your career direction. You shollld jump if you see an opportuni· ty tcudvana>. 00 UBRA (Sept. 23-0ct. 22): Work on your inner self. Don't overindulge. You will have a tendency to do every­thing in excess today. Overspending will leave you in the poor house. 00000 SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): You need to spend a little time doing your own thing. Your partner will be emo­tiol\ollly upset. Try not to put any pressure on any of your loved ones. 000 SAGriTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Make career changes that will be lo~. You need to feel secure in your position. A friend with a prob· lem will be burdensome. Be kind, but don"t let him or her monopolize your time.OOO CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): You need to enjoy yourself. Social events will be more fun than rou thought. New encounters wil be stimulating. It's time to mingle and sh;m, ideas. 000 AQUARIUS (jan. 20-Feb. 18): Problems on the home lront will be cleared up quickly if you delegate chon>s fairly. The alterations being made will be beneficial to everyone involved. 00000 PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20): Talk to friends or relatives who have your best interest at heart. You should spend some time with your mate. You need to get to know one another all over again. 00  

• OF INTEREST 

MEC Festival-The Multicultral Executive Council Festival takes place today at Reekers. There will be a fireside chat from 12~1 p.m. and a presentation on "Culture on the Quad" from 4:30-5:30 p.m. Fr. Kenneth Maley will speak on ''Quantum Spirituality." 
Habitat for Humanity Opening Mass -Habitat for Humanity is celebrating Mass at the Grotto on Sunday, 
..... 
~

Oct. 11. at 5 p.m. to celebrate the start of construction on their new house. Father Jim Lies will be presiding. In the event of rain, the Mass will take place at Zahm Hall. 
You can sink the 
Titanic, 
but the Observer never stops 
-

reporting 
10/10
Saturday 
$2 

I 
j I 
I I 
DILBERT 
~~P=U=T=T=H=I=S==5T=R=I=P=O=N~-.~~I~'=M==H=O=P=I=N=G==IT==W~I=L~L~~ 
YOUR NOSE. TO GE.T ! I'\fl. I<E YOU A MORE ~ MORE OXYGEN TO ~ INTERESTING l 
YOUR ~ 
CONVERSI\TIONI\L IST. i BRAIN. lll .f 
,
E 
0
0 
-t 
~ 

~~~~~~~i~~~~--~~ 
ACROSS 29 Unspecified 57 Enterprise number competitor
1 Horace volume 
30 Bleachers cry 
58 "Maria --" 

5 "Cabaret" name 
31 Vermont-born (1941 song)9 Door fasteners 
President 
59 O.K. Corral

14 Volcanic flow 33 Penalty 
fighter 15 Give --for 34 Traitor to Christ 
60 Say no to

one's money 
38 Hearty laughs 
61 Actor Merlin 

16 West African 
39 Shakespearecapital hero 62 Pops' mates 
17 Film director 
40 Aussie bird 63 Place of Reitman 41 Alphabet temptation 18 Washington sequence medical center 
43 Bomb of a bomb 
DOWN

20 Traitor to 
44 Dupin creator Norway 1 Singer 
47 Do technical film 

22 Best Newton-John
work 23 Nitpicker 49 City known for 2 Wales's St.­25 Source of a rubber products Cathedral biblical jawbone 51 Traitor to the 3 Gets around 26 Involuntary United States 
4 Decaf brand 

muscle spasm 56 Disasters 5 White House area 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE &Invader of 1990 
BASALISHES SEGO 0 L L I E P E L E H A L L C 0 0 R 5 F I E L D E R I E ATr.r.TOLD."AMANDA 
C E 
L L 5 T A 5 

5 E N R E W A R ~ 5 IWi E T A o 1 ~E c"C E s A 
LA o M I N D R H 0 D A]IID 0 N E S E D E R ~r):_~ I 0 T A IIIIIIN 0 R A D A C U M E N 
p L 
A y L E T A D AM 

HERALD"'ASIN.CBS 
AVER '"fENWAYPAR1< 
SEND IONAIOLDIE 
E R A 5 N E 0 N N 0 5 E D 
1 African language 
SCOTT ADAMS 
HOW 
'BOUT 
THAT'? I'M NO LONGER 


aeon 27 Not his or hers 36 Tempe sch. 48 Ridiculous 37 Traffic tracker so Scamp
28 You may get a9 Motorcycle peep out of this 38 Qui or si 52 Agenda partmaker 41 He cometh 53 "Bye"29 Like a10 Bitter 

42 "Star Wars" 54 Time for a 11 Hypothetical knight President or a pendulum's 
path

chain of events 44 Showed convict
31 Paid spots 12 Expecting 45 Sea rock 55 Mean snakes 
32-Today 

46 Finishes with 56 Corp. honcho13 Pa!tletic 
33 Cone bearer 19 Cable staple 
34 Basketball 

Get answers to any three clues
21 Extreme showdown 

by touch-tone phone: 1·900·420­
24 More and 35 Kahoolawe 

5656 (75¢ each minute\.
merrier preceder instrument~ 


I I 
'j 



IINocre Duae 
• Ttgcr Woods takes 
Va1Jcyba111D tab oa 
the: lead at the Dunhill 
Cup golf tournament.
His Eat mala .... 
w~'eucl
PORTS 
THE 

page 24 0 BSERVER Friday, October 9, 1998 
.--."sSocca 
Ladies travel to New England, look to continue success 
By BRIAN KESSLER 
Assistant Sports Editor 
The Notre Dame women's soccer team takes its 10-1 record east this weekend, heading into the first two games of a six game road trip. 
The second-ranked Irish will battle Boston College on Friday before heading to Rhode Island to take on Providence on Sunday. 
"I think this is going to be a good week for us because we're coming off a good week," co-captain Jen Grubb said. "It will give us a good idea of where we're at and whether or not we've turned the corner yet. It's important because it's two Big East games, so we have to show that we can go out there and dominate." 
The Irish have proved they are unstoppable at home, boasting a school-record 40­game unbeaten streak. 
Notre Dame now has to prove itself on the road. 
In their last game away from Alumni Field, the Irish dropped a tough one -a 5-1 loss at top-ranked North Carolina. 
Since then. however. the 

• MEN'S SOCCER 
Irish have recorded six straight shutouts, including a 5-0 win over Butler and an 8-0 thrash­ing of Georgetown last week­end. 
Sophomore Meotis Erikson broke through for four goals in those two games. 

"Obviously being out for the summer hurt her, but she's~ getting back into it and did a · great job for us last weekend," Grubb said. 
With Erikson two scores on Sunday, she now stands just two goals shy of tying Cindy Daws' school record of 61 career goals. 
"She's been one of the better players for us this season," Grubb said. "So for her sake I hope she reaches it." 
Sophomore sensation Anne Makinen also had two goals on Sunday against Georgetown; however the Irish will be with­out her services for the second time this season, as she will be trying to help her native coun­try Finland qualify for the World Cup. 
"We always miss her when she's away," Grubb said. "She's a great player and she 

The Notre Dame Women's Soccer team travels east this weekend to play Boston College, Rhode Island and Providence. The team hopes to improve upon its 10-1 record this season. 

see SOCCER I page 22 

Men's team faces California foes 

By ANTHONY BIANCO 
Assistant Sports Editor 
None of the Irish expected to enter into the rPcords books
•• with a statistic that they will not be able to break anytime soon. Then again, they have done just that every time they stepped on a field in recent games. The Irish have headed into the overtime period to deter­
mine a winner in each of the past six games. They have only taken advantage of the sudden­death format twice, while tak­ing one loss and finishing three other games in a deadlock. 
The Irish are hoping that a clash out West will allow them to shatter that streak, giving them a set of wins rather than a pair of ties. The Irish will play two of the West Coast Conference's members in the teams of Santa Clara and Saint Mary's tonight and Sunday, respectively. 
The Irish began their non­conference stretch last Tuesday at home against IUPUI. A storm kept the first half to· a slow start, and it wasn't till the overtime period that a goal was scored. 
Freshman forward Shane Walton netted the gamewinner. Walton leads the team with 
see MEN'S I page 20 
• HOCKEY 

Icemen begin CCHA conference play at hom 
By TED BASSANI S orrs Writer 

Fresh off a 2-1 victory over Wisconsin last Saturday night in Madison, the Irish hockey team opens its home schedule this weekend with games ver· sus Lake Superior State and Western Michigan. This week­end also marks the opening of the CCHA schedule for the Irish. 
The win last week versus Wisconsin was certainly a confidence-builder for the team, but according to fresh­man defenseman Sam Cornelius, the Irish are still starting from scratch. 
"For us, Wisconsin was a good tune-up, but this is the beginning of our season," said Cornelius. 
By most accounts, the CCHA is the toughest conference in college hockey from top to bottom, including the likes of defending national champion Michigan, and the top-10 ranked teams of Michigan State and Ohio State. 
The one word which best sums up CCHA games is phys· ical. 
"There are no easy oppo­nents in this conference, every game is crucial," said head coach Dave Poulin. "Every game can decide whether or not your team makes the playoffs, whether or not your team finishes in the top four for home ice in the playoffs. The intensity is felt game to game as well as shift to shift." 
Cornelius will get his first taste of CCHA play this week­end, but the games may be a little different than those he saw at Edina High School in Minnesota last year. 
"CCHA games are faster and more physical than the games I'm used to," said Cornelius. "Games are played with much more intensity at this level." 
Coming off a big road win is nothing new to the Irish. Last year the team scored big wins at Wisconsin, Michigan State and Ohio State in addition to a playoff win in Ann Arbor. 
A common storyline last season, however, was the team's lack of a home ice advantage, going 6-8-4 last season at the .Joyce Center, a storyline which the team is looking to change this season. 
"Certainly, one of our goals this year is to be a better home team than we were last year," said captain Brian Urick. 
It is tough to put a finger on exactly why the Irish played so well on the road while playing like an average team at home last season. 
It was not a matter of the team lacking confidence or 
see HOCKEY I page 19 

at Arizona State at Santa Clara Tomorrow, 2:30p.m. Today, 7 p.m. 
(I OS.
SPORTS 
Hockey vs. Lake Superior State 
ATA 
Today, 7 p.m. 

at Boston College at Connecticut 
•
~ Today, 7 p.m. Today, 7:30p.m. GLANCE 
'' 


1 -.t . 
. 
1 'V· :~. 

'88 CHAMPIONSHIP IRISH EXCHANGE ROSTERS IRISH INSIGHT THE NATION PAGEl PAGE3 PAGES PAGE6 PAGE7 
page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 9, 1998 
NOTRE DAME VS. MIAMI 

ROAD TO THE '88 CHAMPIONSHIP 
Hurricanes succumb to Notre Dame spirit 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ 
Spores Editor 
In most cases, the num­bers tell the story. 
This time, they .didn't. 

If they did, then Miami quarterback Steve Walsh would have walked away the hero, having completed 31 of 50 passes for 424 yards and giving one of the best performances of his collegiate career. 
Instead, he slinked away 

in  the  shadows  of  Tony  
Rice.  
The  Irish  quarterback  

turned in a stunning perfor­mance in the air, complet­ing eight of 16 passes for a career-high 195 yards. He made a spectacular 57-yard completion to Rocket Ismail in the second quarter. 
Yet the most notorious part of Rice's game had no chance to shine. Except for his seven-yard touchdown in first quarter, Rice took a pounding at the hands of the Miami defense as he ran for 21 yards in 20 carries. 
If numbers were the only thing that determined the outcome of the game then Miami should have been measuring their trophy case for their second straight championship trophy. The Hurricanes amassed 481 yards to the Irish's 331. 
This battle marked the first time in 20 years that a top-ranked team played a marquee matchup in South Bend. Players from both teams rose to a new level. 
On the defensive side, nose guard Chris Zorich pounced on two Miami fum­bles. Not to be outdone by Zorich, defensive tackle Jeff Alm raked in an intercep­tion and batted down one of Walsh's passes to kill a third-quarter drive. For the offense, Ismail had four receptions for 96 ;'ards. 
Miami's offensive star of the game, besides Walsh, was wide reciever Andre Brown. He scored the first 
and  last  touchdown  for  
Miami.  Brown  made  an  
eight-yard  reception  for  
Miami's first points.  

It was his last catch for which he will be remem­bered -an 11-yard, awe­inspiring grab to boost Miami to within one point of Notre Dame. 
The story, of one the biggest games in college football history lies with the number of turnovers. This is where the fifth-ranked Irish had the upper hand over the top-ranked Hurricanes. Seven turnovers by Miami did not stop their offense unit, it merely slowed them. 
It was the play of free safety Pat Terrell that killed Miami. Terrell ravaged the Hurricane offense, especial­ly on two specific plays. 
He snagged one of Walsh's passes and returned it 60 yards for a touchdown. The single play which dashed all hopes of a win and Miami's 36-game regular season winning streak, came from Terrell. 

His outstretched arms 
batted  down  Walsh's  last  
ditch effort  at  a  win.  The  
two-point  conversion  was  
no good.  

Some say that call by Miami head coach Jimmy Johnson was a gamble. One thing is for sure-the man­to-man coverage by Terrell on the Hurricanes' Leonard Conley left no hope of victo­ry for Johnson and Co. With 45 seconds remaining in the game, all Notre Dame had left to do was run out the clock to secure another win in its dream season. 
"This was a win by the Notre Dame spirit," Holtz said. "This was a win by the spirit of a group of guys who refused to fold. It was a great game of two great teams who just competed as hard as anything I've ever seen." 
This game signaled not only a win, but the end of an era, the end of Hurricane domination. No longer would Notre Dame have to live under the humiliation of a 58-7 loss in 1985. 
As the remaining seconds ticked away, Notre Dame fans stormed the field cele­brating what the final num­bers read: Irish 31' Miami 30. 

Photo courtesy of Notre Dame Sports Information 

Pat Terrell bats away Miami's two-point conversion to seal the 31-30 victory. 




T'L ~ NOTRE DAME 21 
~ ~ asu 14 We wish Coach Davie, His Staff and the Team success in u~J~®a their 1 paign! ~~a ~[}f!)Y~~ ~!}!}~I] I]/}/} Dine-In a at ND Store ~/}I]~/}~!/~
(1827 Bend Ave.) 
and at North Villiage Mall near St. Mary's 
Serve Coke Products. 

------~--------~·-------~--~ --------~--~~~------­
Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
INSIGHTS FROM THE STATE PRESS
IRISH EXCHANGE 
THE INDEPENDENT DAILY OF ASU 
By DOUG FLANAGAN Snyder said the group as a football team is State Press whole, as opposed to specific like that. What players, have recently risen to you want to do is 
If any knowledgBable football the occasion. keep the throttle critic around the nation or the "They all have (improved)," down, out of the most diehard of Sun Devil foot­he said. "I think the play of Eric way of the floor­ball fans around the Valley was Fields -I mean, if he just board, and try to told the ASU football team keeps coming. l-Ie's not a veter­negotiate every would bn 2-3 aftnr live games, an player right now, but if he turn as you go they would most likely have keeps coming, he is going to that fast. laughed that notion into thin really be a fine football player Sometimes you air. at this level. Erik Flowers (is can hit the wall. 
But that's exactly where the better). You know, Albrey Battle "But I think Sun Devils, a pmsoason Pac-1 0 really had a line football game over the course of and national championship con­against USC. So I think our a long period of ttmdor, stand aftor Saturday's front is getting better, which time, we're going :14-25 loss to USC. helps everybody. to win a lot of 
So that same critic or fan "Our defense is maturing and games -just by might summarize that the men­growing. In terms of rushing aggressive play, tal side of the team is the passer, we're getting more (playing) as smart destroyed. hurries and more sacks each as you can and as 
Again, they'd bH wrong. week, so that's an improve­aggressive as you 
"This will sound maybe funny, ment." · can be -further but wn'rn actually a pretty con­Snyder also said he was satis­down the road." fident football team based on fied with his team's fiery, Snyder also what I could gather from the upbeat attitude in practices reiterated that weekend plus last weekend's leading up to the USC game and the season is not practice," head coach Bruce the game itself, pointing to that lost, and the team Snyder said. "I think we're the as another reason for his has not gotten most confident 2-3 team in team's improvement. down on itself. America. Is that possible?" "In terms of the aggressive­"They know 
It is. based on the fact that ness of our team, I'm really they have the tho Sun Devil defense is all of a pleased with how we took the ability to be sudden making great strides. lield and how hard we played," good," he said. The unit recorded its first inter­he said. "The team was really "We're not a good 
Photo courtesy of Arizona State Media Relations 
Quarterback Ryan Kealy tossed 11 touchdowns in 1997, compiling a 136.4 pass effi­
ception of the season on focused. We have really devel­team right now. 
ciency rating in six games, but has struggled this year behind a shaky offensive line.
Saturday (cornerback Courtney oped, over the last three weeks, But we're very .laeksonl and is leading the con­heart and courage and tough­close. And they 
Kealy, who briefly blacked out Mitchell on a touchdown passference in rushing defense ness. That I'm very pleased know that. So from that stand­as a result of the hit, did not and displayed gritty determina­(103.2). with. point, I think there's an appre­return to the game. He was tion after coming into a difficult"I heard somebody say (some­ciation for how good we could replaced by Chad Elliott, who situation.
thing) be if we do it right." 
had his ups and downs in his "You could tell he hasn't once Quarterback Ryan Kealy,
IRISH INSIDER 

first significant chunk of colle­played, or we could from the
about knocked mildly unconscious on
EDITOR; KATHLEEN LOPEZ 

giate playing time. tape based on some of the deci­
driving the third play of the game on
ASSOCIATE EDITORS: JOEY CAVATO, ALLISON KRILLA 
Elliott threw a costly fourth sions and the communication," 
a race Saturday by USC linebacker
ASSISTANT EDITORS: ANTHONY BIANCO, BRIAN KESSLER 
quarter interception and at Snyder said. "But he proved to 
car, and Chris Claiborne, will most likely
DESIGN: MARK DEBOY 

times looked out of sine with have the talent we thought he
coach­start for ASU against Notre 
GRAPHICS: PETE CILELLA 

the rest of the offense, but he would have. He loves to throwing a Dame, Snyder said. 
COVER PHOTO: JOHN DAILY 

also connected with Kenny the football." 
RECORD: 3-1 RECORD: 2-3 
A.P. NATIONAL RANKING: 22 A.P. NATIONAL RANKING: UNRANKED 
~

THE EDGE 
Quarterbacks • Even 
Jackson had acareer day last week against Stanford, showing Minor showed flashes of his old form last week, while Irons glimpses of Tony Rice, but has been erratic throwing the ball and Howard have been solid all year. Undersized linebacker at times. Kealy was first team freshman All-American last Adam Archuleta is ASU's leading tackler on an inexperienced year and is averaging 230 passing yards agame this year unit. but his team's mediocre year has taken atoll on him emotionally. 
Running Backs -NO 
Denson and Redmond are two of the top backs in the nation. NO must be ready for a"Fright Night" come Saturday. Mitchell Redmond is capable of ascore every time he touches the ball, "Fright Night" Freedman, the 6-0, 207-pound free safety while Denson is more of aworkhorse. Spencer had agreat who is one of the biggest hitters in the nation. CB Courtney game last week and should be given more carries as the Jackson is an aii-Pac 10 performer. Driver, Cooper and season progresses. company held Stanford to 5.7 yards per attempt last week. 
Receivers -ASU 
An experienced Lenzie Jackson leads adeep receiving corps Redmond is the nation's best kickoff returner, while freshman which has had eight different players with at least two Stephen Baker handles both the kickoff and punting recepetions in the first four games. Other key receivers responsibilities, with his 48.2 punting average ranking include Kenny Mitchell and Tariq McDonald. Johnson has second in the nation. The Irish kicking game has declined been the best of the NO bunch, accounting for over 40 as of late, including a16-yard punt by Smith and the percent of the catches so far. Holloway and Brown must Cardinal had good field position all day. become more involved in the offense. 
Offensive Line -Even 
NO's 0-line blew the Cardinal off the ball last week, helping Snyder has been a head coach for 19 years, Davie for two. pave the way for 302 rushing yards. Grey Ruegamer is the Experience is the key in this profession. best center in the nation and is an Outland and Lombardi candidate for the Sun Devils. 
Defensive Line -NO 
Holding Stanford to 63 yards rushing last week was Last week's win brought back glimpses of '88; hopefully this impressive, but consistency has been a problem. ASU has week won't bririg back glimpses of Michigan State. NO's not been any better, allowing 214 rushing yards to BYU offense finally clicked last week, and showed that they can run and junior college all-Americans Junior loane and Erik the ball as well as any team. If Jackson continues to hit his Flowers have not panned out. open receivers, this could be the start of a magical run. 






page 4 The Observer· IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 9, 1998 





By ANTHONY BlANCO Assistant Sports Editor 
Notre Dame's return to good-old option football has left a trial of defeat­ed defenses that are still baffled by the Irish game plan. The rush attack, spearheaded by Jarious Jackson and Autry Denson, has crushed opponents with an average of 222 yards on the ground a game. 
But leading the way for every good rushing attack is a steamroller. For the Irish, that steam has boiled down to fullback Jamie Spencer, the team's other backfield threat. Like the resur­rection of the option, Spencer's senior year has been much like a second com­ing -the coming of a playmaker. 
Spencer's top-shelf hits have prevent­ed defenses from setting up play finish­ing tackles. Time and time again, his plowing has left the lane open for Jackson and Denson to put their finish­ing touches on one of their plays. 
"I think as long as I am consistent and remain stable in that position and make sure that its not something they have to worry about getting done, than they can just do their thing and every­thing will come naturally," said Spencer on the results of the rushing game so far this year. 
And naturally is how it has devel­oped. Despite beginning the season with a new quarterback and a new offensive game plan, the Irish have played like pros since they went to the ground assault. They have blasted opposing defenses on the the rush and Spencer has provided the bang. 
"Jamie's a good threat," Jackson said. "He's great on blocking and I wouldn't exchange him for any­one. He sticks on blocks and when he runs you get holes. He definitely opens them up." 

The holes have been like swiss­cheese for the backfield, allowing the guys he blocks for to have career sea­sons. Jackson has already established himself as one of Notre Dame's premier option signalcallers and last weekend he became the first quarterback since Tony Rice in 1988 to gain 100-plus yards rushing and passing in the same game. 
Of course, Denson keeps building toward Irish immortality as he contin­ues to chip away at Vargas Ferguson's all-time career rush list. 
But it hasn't been just Jarious and Autry racking up the yards this year. Spencer has made his share of spot­light appearances in 1998. After strug­gling in the first three games, splitting much of the fullback carries with junior Joey Goodspeed, Spencer saw red in the Cardinal. 
"[The Stanford game] was just letting people know that there's another phase to the option," Spencer said. You can't just concentrate on Jarious and Autry running the option all the time. I mean, we do have two fullbacks who can run the option." 
His 80 yards on 10 carries had Stanford seeing stars, as he not only handled all of the full­back carries, but also gave future opponents a new fear. The Irish option, initially a double threat, has quickly grown to include another poison -Jamie Spencer. 
"He's worked himself in the position to be playing the best football of his career," commented head coach Bob Davie. "With him running with the foot­ball, that adds another option to our offense. With him being productive, anytime you've got the fullback in there 
that makes them defend one more 
thing." 

Last Staurday, for the first time 
since the 1995 Air Force game 
when Randy Kinder, Denson, 
and Marc Edwards accom­
plished the feat, three Irish 
players rushed for at least 80 
yards. 

Ironically enough, 
Spencer's best game has 
landed him right next to 
Edwards in the 
record book. 
Spencer regis­
tered his 
f i r s t significant playing time two years ago when an injured Edwards was forced to sit out of the lineup. Edwards, a senior captain, taught Spencer the ins and outs of playing the fullback posi­tion at Notre Dame. 

"He taught me what was expected of the fullback position," said Spencer. "With him being one of the greatest, I picked up on a lot of things he did and the way that he worked. He gave me a lot of insight on what to do and what is expected of me." 
After stepping up to fill in for Edwards, his 5.8-yard average as a sophomore virtually guaranteed him a starting spot his junior year. But the offseason wasn't as kind to him as the season was. Missing the greater part of the 1997 preseason with a knee and ankle injury, Spencer spent most of last season fighting just to get playing time. 
"The problem with the injuries," explained Spencer, "was that it was a bad luck thing. Rather than fighting and trying to make things work this season like I did last year, I've focused more on playing hard and being consis­tent. That has helped me stay consis­tent and healthy so far this year." 
This mindset gave him the opportuni­ty to rise to the front as he battled with Goodspeed for the staring spot earlier this season. Spencer answered the call and has provided a ring of his own. 
"Competition always brings out the best," Spencer said. "Me and Joe have been competing a long time for this position and we knew someone had to step-up and play. I asked myself, 'Why not me, why couldn't it be me to raise up and take it to that position."' 
The Irish know that Spencer's posi­tion entails all things offense, from blocking to running to catching balls out of the backfield. And that's exactly how the triple threat will keep the opposition guessing. 
"He's a good blocker, but at the same time, every now and then we'll give him the rock up the middle when the defense least expects it," Jackson said. 
That's fine with him, as long as he's on the field fighting for the Irish. In his eyes he's just another blocker and he couldn't be happier out of the spotlight. 
"In doing my job, with everything 
everyone else does and everyone 
else sees, I'm just another line­
man in the backfield. I run the 
right way and make the right 
blocks, and let Jarious and Autry 
do the running," he said. 
Spencer may consider himself 
to be just another blocker, but 
Irish fullbacks with Spencer's kind 
of talent always seem to find a piece of the spotlight in the end. 
---~~~----------~~-~---­
Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 5 

Bob Davie 
CAREER RECORD 10-7 AT NOTRE DAME 10-7 AGAINST ARIZONA STATE 0-0 

ROSTER 

No. No1me Pos. lit. Wt. YR 
I Ot.•kt• Cooper FS 6-3 221 JR 
2 llmny Guilbeaux SS 6-2 215 SR 
3 Amaz B.tttl<• QU 6-1 195 FR 
Kory Minor OLU 6-1 245 SR 
A')ani Sanders FS 5-11 191 SR 
Malcolm johnson SE 6-5 215 SR 
Jarious Jackson QB 6~) 220 SR 
Eric Chappl'il Qll 6-4 225 JR 
Anthony Brannan OUl 5-11 203 )R 
R.tki Nelson Fl 5-11 178 JR 

10 f>t>veron Harper CB 5-11 187 JR 11 Jay Johnson SE 6-0 187 JR 12 Tony Fisher RB 6-1 202 FR 13 Jimmy Friday ILB 6-2 236 SR 14 (),1vid Givens WR 6-0 214 FR IS Clifford Jl'fferson DB 5-9 165 FR 16 Zak Kustok QB 6-1 213 so 16 john Shingler TE 6-1 250 SR 17 Hunter Smith P 6-2 218 SR 18 joey Getherall SE 5-7 172 so 19 Jim Sanson K 5-9 189 JR 20 Carlm~ PierrP-Antoine LB 6-2 240 FR 21 Javin I Iunter WR 5-11 172 FR 22 jay Vickers TB w 2J5-JR 23 Autry Denson TB 5-10 202 SR 24 Ty Goode CB 5-11 192 SR 25 Tony Driver FS 6-2 214 so 26 Lee 1..1fayette SS 5-10 198 JR 27 Bobbie Howard ILB 5-10 232 SR 28 Donald Dykes DB 5-10 186 FR 28 Mikl> Grady FS 5-11 200 JR 29 Ju•tin Smith CB 6-2 188 so 30 Rocky llmman DB 6-3 222 FR 31 Eric IIi man CB 5-11 179 SR 32 TL·rrrmct• Howard RB 6-1 181 RB 32 Justin M<•ko SS 5-11 209 SR 33 fa mil' Spencer FB 6-1 245 SR 33 Phil Sicuso CB 5-11 11!8 SR :w Rnnnit· Nicks ILB 6-1 234 JR 35 D.wid Miller K-P 5-11 177 FR 35 jascint Vukelich FB 6-0 224 so 
31> Tom Lopienski FB 6-2 240 FR 
11> lim Lynch CB 5-9 177 SR 37 Ron lsral'l CB 6-0 198 so 37 Kl'vin Rice SS 6-0 212 SR 38 Brork Williams CB 5-10 189 so 39 Anthony Denman OI.B 6-1 231 so 39 Chri• L<<ck SS 5-10 195 )R 411 fa!'lon Murray FB 6-1 254 so 40 Brl'ndan Fd~ell ILB 5-10 220 JR 41 joe Fern•r OLB 6-2 231 JR 42 Antwoint• Wellinghm NG Ml 261 JR 43 I I ugh Holml'> ILB 6-1 212 so 44 Gr,mt Irons OLB 6-5 256 so 45 joey Guodspl'ed FB 6-0 241 JR 40 Kevin Dansby OLB 6-1 228 so 46 Bt•njamin Robinson TE 6-2 241 SR 47 Mik<• McNair fB 6-0 221 FR 48 Jnhnathan Hcbl'rt SE 5-11 202 JR 49 Jol' Thomas ILO 6-2 227 SR 50 David Payne OG 6-1 287 SR 51 Tyrt..>tl Harrison LB 6-2 238 FR 53 t.dmont Bryant DE 6-3 258 SR 54 Luke Petitgout OT 6-6 300 SR 55 JimJones OG 6-3 295 JR <;8 Rn•ndan O'Connor OG 6-2 292 )R 62 Casey Robin OT 6-6 300 so 
6.1 Mike Tribe ILB 5-10 220 JR 64 john Merandi C 6-3 292 JR 66 JW jordan C 6~) 289 so 67 john Wagm•r OT 6-7 300 SR h8 M.>tt Brennan OT 6-7 295 )R 69 Mike Gandy OG 6-4 296 JR 70 lim Ridder OG 6-7 298 SR 71 jerry Wisne OG 6-7 298 SR 72 Ryan Scarola OL 6-4 310 FR 73 J••ffRoehl Ol 6-4 287 FR 74 Rub Muwl C 6-5 295 )R 76 John Teasdale OT 6-5 295 so 77 Brad Williams DE 6-5 286 )R 78 jordan Black OL 6-5 310 FR 79 Mik<• Rosenthal OT 6-7 300 SR HI I.l•wis D.twson Fl. 6~) 185 JR 83 I'a trick Reynolds WR 5-11 179 FR X4 Gerald Mor~an TF. 6-3 263 FR 85 Antwon Jones NG 6-3 280 SR 115 M.nk Rul•• WR 6-2 218 SR 86 Dan O'Leary TE 6-5 256 JR 87 j.thari Iiulloway TE 6-3 254 so lit! llubby Brown Fl 6-3 194 SR 89 john Day-Owens TE 6-3 228 FR 'I() Lctn<'e Ll·~n..>t• NG 6-1 292 JR 91 Noah VanH<x>k-Druck<•rDE 6-2 245 JR 92 Adam Tibbie K 5-11 183 FR 93 BJ Scutt DE 6-4 282 JR 94 Andy Wi~nt..• NG 6-3 285 so 95 Ry.m Rub<•rts LB 6-1 235 FR 96 Sean Mahan IJL 6-3 262 FR 97 Kurt Volle" DT 6-7 280 so 98 Anthony W<•aver DL 6-3 249 FR 911 EricGlass DT 6-4 235 JR 9'1 jason Ching DE 6-3 280 JR 
IN THE 

SPOTLIGHT 
THE LINEBACKERS 

The Observer/John Daily Jimmy Friday and the linebacker corps will have their hands full trying to contain ASU. 
The Sun Devils have one of the most 
dangerous offensive weapons the Irish 
will face in tailback J.R. Redmond. He 
has the luxury of running behind one of 
the best blocking fullbacks in the 
nation, Jeff Paulk. 

Howard and Friday will have to fight of Paulk and wrap up Redmond some­how before he causes damage. 
Redmond sometimes does get a 
catch of fumbleitis. Turnovers will be a 
huge factor in this game and the line­
backers need to start making some 
TAILBACK 
· 23-Denaon 
31-Levy 
FULLBACK 
R
33-Spencer 
45-Goodspeed . . . . . . . 
0, 0 0 o .... '" f foo•T,..• ~ 0 ~..... .......1','&-t-, 
FLANKER 88-Brown 18-Geiheral 

TAILBACK 21-Redmond 9-Hightower 
FULLBACK LEFT GUARD

44-Paulk 35-Ransom 

53-Peters 
53-Ramsay QUARTERBACK 8-Kealy 7-Cambell
~ 

The Observer/John Daily Notre Dame will be looking for a healthy Kory Minor to make some plays tomorrow. 
more plays. 

Minor looked better last week and should be even better this week. This game is a pivotal point for the Irish and Minor should thrive in a game of this magnitude. 
If he can make some plays it'll be con­tagious and young Grant Irons or even Anthony Denman could make a mark. 
Ronnie Nicks got into the Stanford game and is one of the heaviest hitters for the Irish. He could provide a lift in the Arizona desert. 
FREE SAFETY 13-Fraadman 6-Brown 
CORNERBACK 10·Harper28-Dykes 
STRONG SAFETY 25-Driver 26-Lafayette 
:~ :·' 
CORNERBACK · 36-WIIIJams. 24-Goode 

6TH 
SEASON AT ARIZONA STATE 
Bruce Snyder 

CAREER RECORD: 111-91-5 AT ARIZONA STATE: 43-30 
jtSTN;;~;;~ 
No. 
I 
I 
2 
6 
6 
7 
7 
II 
9 
Ill 
10 12 13 14 14 15 15 16 17 17 18 19 20 21 22 22 23 26 28 29 30 31 
32 
33 34 34 35 35 36 37 37 38 38 38 39 40 41 42 43 43 44 
45 
45 46 
47 48 
49 50 51 53 55 57 58 59 60 6,.1 64 66 68 69 70 71 73 74 75 76 
77 
78 79 80 80 81 81 82 83 114 
85 
86 87 88 119 90 91 92 
93 94 95 96 97 98 99 
Name Pos 
Terrelle Smith 1.8 justin Taplin WR Creig Spann WR J'J uan Cherry CB 
Larry Montgomery TB 
Philip Brown FS jason Anderson QB Steve Campbell QB Mark DeBoy WR Ryan Kealy QB 
D. Hightower TB Eric Fields O!.ll 
Brian Biang P 
Brian Forth WR Mitchell Freedman f'S Matt Cooper QB Pete Rotkis SS Chad Elliott QB jamel Ready CB Stephen Baker PI PK Courtney Hysaw CB 
Courtney Love Hole 
john Kashner WR Chad Brown WR Charlie Brown K 
j.R Redmond TB 
Courtney Palmon• FS 
Aaron Dumsch WR Courtney jackson LC Kareem Clark CB Kyion Grayes DB 
Brandon Falkner DB Stephen Trejo IL.B Christon Rance SS 
james Dunn CB Spencer Stefko K Pete Cilella TE JR Pcroulis TB 
Darrin Ransom FB Anthony Stevenson LB 
Erik Flowers RE 
Willie Daniel DB 
josh Nicassio PK 
joey Graves WR joey Cavatu QT Scott Howard LB Alfred Williams DB Adam Archuleta OLil Aaron Winterswyk TE Kyran )one• TB jake Each Fll Cristin Manary SM jeff Paulk FB Kyle Kosier RE 
Stephen Garcia FB 
Mason Unck LB Darrel Turner FB Cody Price ILll 
R. Ransom-Pittingt•r Dl. 
Ralph Zarate OT Grey RuegRmer LT Scott Peters OL 
joe Cesta ILB Craig Sweasy ClC Derrick Ford RE T Townsend DL 
Brian Williams OC 
Korey Ramsay LG Randy Leaphart LG DaneBeem RT Kaleb Ramsay RG 
Ken Westerhaus LG 
Cha-Cha Chesty RT Marvel Smith IT Thomas Schmidt RT Adam Williams OL Victor Leyva RG Damien Niko OL jeff Johannc>:;en RG Levi jones RE Troy Davis RT Davis LB Todd Heap TE Tim Reinbold BXO Kenny Mitchell WR Clifton lone• WR 
Lenzie Jctckson WR Tariq McDonald WR Kendrick Bates TE 
Mike Pinkard DL 
Brian Jennings TE Matt Cercone TE Jason Moore TE Che Britton DRT 
Quincy Yancy RF junior Iuane DRT Malchi Crawford DRE 
Leroy Hawkins RE 
Ryan Reilly DRT jawell Samilton DRT Albrey Battle DRT 
james Beal Dl Seanan Kelly RE 
Ht  Wt  YR  
6-1  238  JR  
6-0  lllO  FR  
6-0  IX<!  SR  
6-0  205  JR  
o-2  217  so  
6-0  185  JR  
6-1  204  JR  
6-8  252  SR  
5-7  ISO  JR  
6-2  205  so  
6-2  207  so  
6-3  219  so  
6-0  185  FR  
5-11  !79  JR  
6-0 6-4  201 210  SR FR  -­ 
5-10  192  SR  
6-3  189  so  
5-10  188  SR  
5-11  186  FR  
5-10  193  so  
5-7  118  JR  
5-10  162  so  
6-2  184  SR  
4-2  78  BH  
6-0  211  JR  
5-11  191  so  
6-3  191  )R  
6-1  192  SR  
5-10  186  JR  
6-0  185  FR  
6-0  185  FR  
6-3  245  so  
6-2  196  so  
5-10  179  so  
6-0  211  SR  
6-7  BlXl  FR  
6-1  2lKl  FR  
Ml  218  so  
5-11  208  so  
6-4  241  JR  
6~)  195  FR  
5-10  176  )R  
6-1  175  FR  
6-{,  277  SR  
6-4  255  so  
6-1  194  FR  
6-0  2011  so  
6-4  235  FR  
6-1  175  FR  
6-1  240  FR  
7-o  25  SR  
6-1  247  SR  
6-{,  255  so  
6-Q  221  JR  
6-3  210  FR  
6-1  240  FR  
6-3  218  so  
6-6  235  FR  
6-5  290  Fll  
6-4  301  SR  
6-3  295  so  
6-1  225  JR  
6-4  279  JR  
6-l  229  SR  
6-4  275  so  
6-4  275  SR  
6-3  2811  so  
6-3  295  SR  
6-6  275  )R  
6-3  285  JR  
6-5  295  SR  
6-3  201  JR  
6-6  29'1  so  
6-6  291  JR  
6-6  295  FR  
6-4  294  so  
6-5  295  FR  
6-5  295  SR  
6-{,  277  so  
6-5  290  SR  
5-10  175  SR  
6-5  220  FR  
5-9  !56  sr  
6-4  202  SR  
6-2  183  so  
6~)  186  SR  
6-1  18ll  so  
6-6  245  JR  
6-5  220  FR  
6-5  2.14  SR  
6-5  250  SR  
6-6  239  )I{  
o-I  251  JR  
6-8  248  so  
6-4  312  )R  
6-4  2511  SR  
6-4  272  SR  
6-2  271)  }R  
6-2  290  )R  
6-3  287  SR  
6-3  26!1  FR  
6-3  228  SR  


page 6 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Friday, October 9, 1998 
• IRISH INSIGHT 
Senior leadership crucial to Irish success 
By JOEY CAVATO Associate Sports Editor 

Haven't we been here before? 
It takes an attention span slightly longer than a three-year-old's to remember what happened the last time Notre Dame hit the road after an impres­sive victory. 
There is no need for fans to recollect what hap­pened in East Lansing, but the team sure better. 
Arizona State is unranked and is 2-3, but it has loads of speed and talent, and there is no doubt that the Irish will get the Sun Devils' best game of the season. The hosts are even favored by three and a half points. 
I This was supposed to be the Arizona State team 
I 
I that made a run at the national title. But the Devils find themselves in a living hell having already lost 
three games including one to the Cougars of BYU. Now Notre Dame brings in the spotlight of national 
II ~ 
television to Sun Devil Stadium and the hosts will fight their best fight tb defend their turf. 
The 73,000 fans will be raucous. The weather will be hot and the Irish will need a special effort.Look to the 21 seniors to provide that effort. 
Now is their time. A win puts the Irish into the top 20 with a 4-1 record and only two real challenges remaining on the slate, Louisiana State at home and Southern Cal on the road. 
The Class of 1999 was suppose to bring the nation­al championship, but fate hasn't had that magic in the cards. Since they stepped on campus in the fall of 1995, Notre Dame is a modest 27-13. The seniors had to deal with a coaching change midway through. It was called upon prematurely to carry the burden with subpar classes ahead of them. 
The 1998 NFL draft selected just one player from 
last season's seniors, cornerback Allen Rossum. The void of senior leadership was sharply felt last sea­son. 
But that is behind them and now is their true time to lead. 
"The seniors have been here for awhile and the seniors believe that this is our team," senior tri-cap­tain Kory Minor said. "I think when things are going down and things aren't going how you want them to go, I think you look to seniors to bring lead­
ership and camaraderie to the team." Minor, along with Autry Denson and Mike 
•.· 

The Observer/John Dally 
Autry Denson and his senior classmates need to help the Irish not repeat their performance at Michigan State. 
Rosenthal, keynote this group of outstanding seniors that are trying restore Notre Dame football back to where it should be. 
"I think our seniors across the board are starting to play the best football of their careers," head coach Bob Davie said. "I think that's really impor­tant for this team." 
Other pieces of the puzzle are falling into place as receiver Malcolm Johnson and fullback Jamie Spencer are coming off the best performances of their careers. Linebacker Bobbie Howard continues to be the rock who quietly leads the defense with his tremendous consistency. 
"Our senior class is very close," Minor said. "We came in with about 25 guys and there are probably 22 guys still here. So we're a very close-knit group and I think for us to be successful the seniors will have to step up and show great leadership and great camaraderie and just lead this team." 
Defensive coordinator Greg Mattison spoke of the quality of character of his players that is epitomized by members of the senior class. 
"We have some fabulous kids here," he said. "That's what makes Notre Dame special-you're going to get the great kids. Now you got to get them to continue playing as hard as they can and that's why I like these kids. They respond, they take coaching. We're not perfect as coaches. We all can get better and that's what we have to do to get as good as we can get." 
The seniors would like nothing better than to fin­ish their careers on a high note They realize where they are, and where they need to go. 
"We need to put together a good game on the road," Rosenthal said. "The good thing about this team is we played a good game but we know we have a lot of things to work on. We're not satisfied at all and we know we have to go out this week and improve." 
"Right now they don't think we can do it and everyone else doesn't think we can do it," Denson said. "So we have to go out and show everyone else what we already know -if we go out and exe­cute we can play with anybody. If we don't, it'll be a long day." 
That "if' Denson speaks of will hinge on the seniors and whether they can get their teammates to rally behind them. 
"Our seniors step up and we're kind of the focal point and then everybody can contribute from there by watching us," Minor said. 
While Davie did not want to call tomorrow's con­test a barometer for his team, he did recognize its magnitude as it marks a pivotal point in the season. There is more of a difference between 4-1 and 3-2 than just one game. 
"I just want to see us play as well as we can and keep improving," he said. ''I'm kind of anxious to see where we are. I'm anxious to see how we play away from this stadium. It's a big game for us, it's a big game for this football team and this program. We're going into this game healthy and we're going with some momentum." 
The question remains: can the momentum be maintained? 
"This is a big game because it's our next game and our next game is always a big game," Minor said about Arizona State. "For us to win to down there it's going to be hard, it's going to take an incredible amount of effort. We need to go out there and be positive and not worry if something bad happens early and stay focused. I think if we can do that this week in practice and take it out to the West Coast we'll be ok. 
"We're capable of playing great football when we want to." Let's hope Minor· and his classmates can help the Irish avoid a case of deja vu. 
s


OPen for Lunch 
Fridav. Saturdav. Sundav 
We accept Visa, Mastercard, Discover • only valide @ above location • across from Linebacker • exp. Oct. 31, 1998. 
GO IRISH •• B·EAT SUN DEVILS 
------------------~~----~--­
r-----------------------------­
Friday, October 9, 1998 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 7 
THE IRISH INSIDER LOOKS AT
EYE ON 
THIS WEEK'S TOP COLLEGE
THE NATION -· 
FOOTBALL GAMES 

Bulldogs ready to challenge Volunteers 
By BRIAN KESSLER Assistam Spons Editor 
.1\ftnr last weekend's 2R-27 upset victory over LSU, No. 7 Georgia is back between the hedges to take on SEC foe Tennessee. 
The fifth-ranked Volunteers were victo­rious over Auburn, but the17-9 win came at a great expense. Sophomore tailback .Jamal Lewis tore the lateral collaterallig­amnnt in his right knen and underwent season-ending surgery earlier this week. 
"lie is through for the year, although thorn's a chance he could be back for a bowl game. but that's not likely," Voluntenrs coach Phillip Fulmer said. 
Thn loss of Lewis means that Tennessee quarterback Tee Martin will have to pick up the slack. 
So far. he has completed only 44.3 per­cent of his passes (:{5-ol'-79) for 509 yards and seven touchdowns. lie has thrown two interceptions. but has rushed for 120 yards and a score on 29 carries. 
Sophomores Travis Stephens and Travis llnnry will take over for Lnwis at the tail­hac~k spot. 
The loss of Lnwis throws Tennessee's advantagn right out the window. 
In addition. the Bulldogs are out to avengn last year's embarrassing 38-13 loss. A year ago, Georgia coach Jim Donnan stormed off the field claiming third most efficient passer who has been lier this year. that Tnnm~ssee ran up the score, since impeccable so far this season, completing LSU, on the other hand, is coming off its Peyton Manning threw four passes, 71 percent of his passes (66-of-93) for 957 first loss of the season, an upset at home including one for a touchdown, in the yards and six touchdowns with one inter­by Georgia. final live minutes of their blowout win. ception. Kevin Faulk leads the Tigers into the 
"I don't know if they were trying to run There is a lot at stake for both teams, as Swamp. He is eighth in the nation with 
the score up," Georgia linebacker Dustin this battle of the unbeatens could have over 133 yards per game. Quarterback Luckie said. "But we were disappointed in major ramifications in the SEC and in the Herb Tyler is the eighth-rated passer in the way we played, because we could national championship picture. the nation. have played better. We just let too many Florida holds a 9-1 record in the teams' things get to us, like the crowd noise. We last 1 0 meetings and Spurrier is 7-1 all got behind early and kind of got down on time against LSU, dating all the way back 
ourselves. I just hope it's going to be a to when he played for the Gators. whole lot better this year." 
Georgia has lost seven straight to Tennessee, with their last win over the Vols coming in 1988. Also, last year's 25­point margin was Georgia's worst loss to Tennessee since 1993. 
Since then, however, Georgia has only lost once and is confident after last week­end's huge road win. 

Georgia is looking for a big game out of quarterback Quincy Carter, the nation's The third-ranked UCLA Bruins will have 25-game win streak in their hands full this weekend when they 
-l 
the conference. This battle No. 11 Arizona. year, LSU hopes to UCLA has not won in Tucson since 1988, break another run -but it has won a school-record 13 straight Florida's school record games. 24-game home win The Bruins will also have to fill the void streak. left by Tailback Jermaine Lewis, the 
Gator coach Steve Bruins' leading rusher and one of the Spurrier had been nation's top scorers who was suspended
TEAM RECORD POINTS 

rotating quarterbacks from the team on Tuesday because of his 
1. Ohio St. (58) 4-0 1,746 

Jesse Palmer and involvement in light over the weekend. 2. Nebraska (7) 5-0 1,640 
Doug Johnson, but has "He's been in a light; there's a police 3. UCLA {1) 3-0 1,575 
decided to go with one report," coach Bob Toledo said. "When it 4. Tennessee (2) 4-0 1,541 
for this weekend's gets to that point, there's a suspension. showdown in Supposedly, it wasn't his fault." 
5. Kansas St. (2) 4-0 1,519 

Gainsville. So far this season, Lewis had gained
6. Florida 4-1 1,326 

"[They] have played 270 yards on 53 carries, nearly half of the
7. Georgia 4-0 1,313 

almost identically, but Bruins' rushing yardage in their three
8. Florida St. 4-1 1,235 

but we need to give games. Lewis also leads the team with 
9. Virginia 5-0 1,219 

one of them the oppor­eight touchdowns. Keith Brown will make 
10. 
Arizona 5-0 1,043 tunity to lead the the start in his place. 

11. 
LSU 3-1 1,010 offense," Spurrier Cade McNown is off to a quick start for 

12. 
Wisconsin 5-0 937 said. "We hope one the Bruins. Be has completed 51 of his 81 quarterback will give passes for 859 yards and five touch­


13. Penn State 3-1 894 

us the a little spark on downs.
14. Colorado 5-0 755 

offense." Arizona cornerback Chris McAlister is
15. Oregon 4-0 747 

That quarterback one of the nation's best at his position and 
16. West Virginia 3-1 728 

will be Palmer who will look to shutdown McNown's targets.
17. 
Virginia Tech 4-0 637 has completed 60 per­The Wildcats will be riding an emotion­

18. 
TexasA&M 4-1 594 cent of his passes and al high after last week's last minute victo­

19. 
usc 4-1 462 thrown for six touch­ry. Ortege Jenkins somersalted into the 


I I 
20. Arkansas 4-0 404 downs. endzone with four seconds left to give the 
Last weekend, Wildcats a 31-28 victory over 
I
21. Missouri 3-1 288 

Florida snuck out a Washington. 
• I
22. Notre Dame 3-1 274 

16-10 win over Keith Smith and Jenkins will continue to 
23. N.C. State 3-1 262 

Alabama. The Gators split duty at quarterback. They have com­
24. Syracuse 2-2 169 

need a win to stay in bined for 1,263 pass yards and nine 
25. Tulane 4-0 114 the hunt for the SEC touchdowns. East title. The Gators The PAC-10 title could be up for grabs lost to Tennessee ear-in this showdown. 



-
··­
' 
I 
r t 
I 
I 
r-
I 1 
I 
I 
-·-­

THE FIGHTING IRISH OF NOTRE DAME 
I -vs. 
I THE SUN
' 
DEVILS OF ARI ONA STATE 
... 
f 
r 
I 
I 
I 
~ . 


-






