
Thursday, March 19, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 109 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT Y'S 
Garrick resigns, protests gay policy 
FATHER DAVID GARRICK, C.S.C. 
*1980 •Rector of Howard Hall 
*1982-5. Rector of Keenan Hall Adjunct Instructor in PLS 

*1985 -Completed process of joining Holy Cross Community 
*1992-8-Asst. Professor of Communications and Theatre 
The Observer/Dave Piening 
By MATTHEW LOUGHRAN 
News Editor 
Father David Garrick, assistant profes­sor of communications and theater, announced his resignation from the University last night in protest of the administration's han-
...-I''!'!'~I'I'!!!P'!!Wh dling of gay and lesbian students and faculty at Notre Dame. 
"I think of taking this action as my last, best p.JO chance to help my alma '--"-~'-'--~---' mater," Garrick said. "I hope that a protest of this size might draw attention to the fact that this is everyone's problem. If any people are denied their rights, everyone else's rights are diminished." 
He quoted a letter that he received from one of his students in response to the announcement. 
"You have opened my eyes to a prob­
• STUDENT SENATE 

Lenten Lights ... 


• fACULTY SENATE 
ranking in U.S. News and World Heports annual 
'ARTS AND LEITERS NEEDS A BUIWING

listing of top col­leges and uni­BIGGER THAN fLANNER TO MEET ITS vnrsities has 
NEEDS, AND NECESSITY WILL DRIVE THE ISSUE

captured the attention of the 
EVENTUALLY.' University's fac­ulty. A large por­tion of the Faculty Senate meeting Wednesday night focused on measures to bring Notre Dame, currently ranked 19th, into the top 10. While the University scored well in stu-
GREG STERLING 
CIJAIR, ACADI:MIC AFFAIRS COMMIITEE 

of the 150 newly endowed chairs for senior faculty with international reputa­tions, establishing prestigious visiting pro-
see FACULTY I page 4 
!em I didn't think was mine. It is," the letter reads. "As a Christian and as a student here it's my problem too, and I know others will realize the same." 
Garrick, a member of the Notre Dame faculty since 1992, came out as a homo­sexual, celibate Holy Cross priest in a letter to the editor of The Observer on April 4, 1996. Since then, he claims, in a letter to the editor today that he has been wrongly suspended from his duties as a minister in th<t Basilica. 
"Suppose I was a poor preacher and that they were waiting for a chance to get me out," he said. "So in August of 1996, they finally decided to say, 'We've had enough, Garrick is done.' Why was I not notified for weeks?" . 
"They supposedly received letters protesting my homilies,"he added. "If that is the case, where are they? Why haven't I seen them? Who read them. 
see GARRICK I page 4 


Senate supp(>rts aid funding, construction 
ByTIMLOGAN 
News Writer 
As the current Student Senate term winds to a close, a slew of resolutions came up for debate at last night's meeting. 
The University's funding prior­ities, stu­d e n t need. The proposal suggested a moratorium on building projects until "every student with demon­strated need has those needs met." 
"We have buildings going up with no apparent reason, but with all that money, there 
response to 'WE HAVE BUILDINGS GOING an upcom­
UP WITH NO APPARENT
ing Ku Klux Klan march REASON, BUT WITH ALL THAT in Elkhart, 
MONEY, THERE DOESN'T SEEM TO
and several constitu­BE ENOUGH TO PAY TUITIONS.' 
tional a m.e n d­ments were among the items on the agenda. 
A resolution proposed by Keough senator A.J. Boyd chal­lenged the University's priorities in spending, pointing out the continuous construction and renovation of buildings, despite Notre Dame's inability to provide total fmancial aid to students in 
A. J. BoYD 
SE.VATOR, KHoucu HAu 
doesn't seem to be enough to p a y tuitions," said Boyd. 
He noted that of the $767 million being raised in the Generations fundraising 
campaign, 
only $178 million is earmarked for unrestricted financial aid. The resolution proposed that all moneys for future building pro­jects, including those planned by Generations, be used for finan­cial aid purposes. 
see SENATE I page 4 


Organization seeks to increase national ratings 
KRISTY KATZMANN  dent retention, alumni satisfaction and  
News Writer  value added, the dill'erence between the  
predicted graduation rate and the actual  
Pressure to increase Notre Dame's  graduation date, reputation, faculty and  

financial resources all need major renovations. 
Proposals to improve t h e University's reputation i n C ) U d e 
reserving 7 5 


l 
I 
l 
l 
1 
j 
page 2 
• ~NSIDE COLUMN 

Cults are Cool 
If you are C.R. "Teo" Teodoro 
extrmnnly sensitivn, Illustrator 
intolerant of impious __________ 
lwreties, an idealis­
tic dorner conditioned by the Church to the 
point of no return, a mere mmnbnr of the 
masses. narrow-minded, easily influenced by 
the illusions imposed on us as a society, easi­
ly offtmdnd when questioned about your 
faith, lack an appreciation of dark humor, or 
just don't care about religion, then please 
discontinue rnading. But if you're not, enjoy! 
Scary things, cults are. Most people would 
agree that cults are strange, incomprehensi­
bln. and probably very dnviant to what we 
would expect in society. Take for instance, 
this hypothetical eult: if today we learned of a 
new mystery cult that worships and follows 
its founder whom everyone knows to be 
either a criminal or outcast, that meets 
together privately to perform their sacred rit­
uals, and that claims to eat flesh and drink 
blood, then I think most people would agree 
that this mystery eult is rnon~ than just a little 
messed up. 
llowevnr, what I lind to be truly ironic is 
that this is probably how the church first 
startnd. It is true; Christianity started out as 
but another mystery cult during the Homan 
Empim. Its founder, Jesus of Nazamth, was 
run out of his own hometown (Matthew 13: 
54-5S; Luke 4: 1 6-3()) and was even conviet­
ed as a criminal of the state (Matthew 27: 15­
2(,; Mark 15: 6-15; Luke 23: 1 S-25; .John 19: 
1-16). The early Christians shared their 
nwals and prayers together in their homes 
(Acts 2: 42-4 7) and were later persneuted 
(Ads S: 1-3). Even the daim of eating flesh 
and drinking blood cannot bn denied, as 
Christ said it himself (John 6: 53-SS). 
It's true that Christianity started out as a 
cult. Now almost two millennia later, it is one 
of the greatest influences, if not the gmatcst 
influnncn, on the Western world. People 
fanatically died for this cult. People were 
burned, stoned. hung, erucifit~d. etc., all 
becausn of this silly little cult based on some 
earpnntnr's son from Nazareth. I may sound 
ironic but that's the point. 
We shouldn't fall into the arrogance behind 
this attitude that Christianity is the best and 
all other cults are wrong. I will admit that 
some cults arn a bit nwssPd up and actually 
do morn harm than good, but these are usu­
ally tlw exceptions rather than the rules. I'll 
say that th!1 Branch Davidiots-eh, 
I>avidians, were counter-productive, but I'll 
attribute that to the fact that they were not 
peaceful in their dealings with society, nor 
with the ATF for that mattnr. 
I can't say much about the Hare Krishna 
sinen I have had limited eontact with any and 
know little to nothing of their beliefs. but at 
least they haven't wagml any big Crusades 
lately. The Wieca is a cult of witches that 
worship naturP, and am not really as bad as 
most would think them to be, sinee they keep 
to thmnselves and hold valuable insights to 
natur1~. 
I hope that I made my point that cults arnn 't all that bad. In fact, I belong to one. I hav1~ been baptized to the faith, made my Confirmation to the Church, confess my sins. and n~gularly eat flesh and drink blood at least once a we1~k; yeah, I'm a hard-con~ Homan Catholic! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• TooAv's STAFF  
News  Production  
Anne Marie Mattingly  Kathleen Lopez  
Colleen McCarthy  Lab Tech  
Kathleen O'Brien  Joe Stark  
Sports  Graphics  
.'\nthony Bianco  Dave Piening  
Viewpoint  
Mary Margaret Nussbaum  

The Ohscrvcr (USPS 599 2-4000) is publi>hcd Monday d1rough hiday cx,cpt durin~ cxo&m and vacation period~. The Observer is a member of rhc Associarcd Press. All reproduction rights arc reltcrvc:J. 
Thursday, March 19, 1998
The Observer • INSIDE 


MSU says ne\\r legislation won't affect admissions 
EAST LANSING, Mich. 
An MSU ol'licial says proposed fed­eral and state legislation outlawing racial preferences in college admis­sions would not affect the University. 
A bill introduced in the state Senate in November by Sen. Bill Bullard, H­I Iighland, to outlaw discrimination on the basis of race, religion, sex, color, national origin or ethnicity will be debated today in the Committee on Government Relations. 
The proposed constitutional amend­ment would ban the use of racial prefp,rences in University admissions, public employment or public con­tracting. 
".Just as in California, people in Michigan should be admitted to col­lege or find employment based on their qualifications and skills -not on some characteristic or feature that they were born with," said Bullard in a prepared statement. 
• WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY-ST.LOUIS 
Law student alleges police harrasment 
ST. LOUIS, Mo. 

A Washington University law student is alleging that a University City police ollicer harassed him while he stood outside of his apartment last Thursday evening . .Jon Sims, who is an African-American, said that the ollicer unneces­sarily detained and frisked him and that he felt that the inci­dent was racially motivated. "I believe firmly that if I had been a white person standing in that same spot I never would have had such a confrontational interaction with the police," Sims said. The University City Police Department dedined to comment on the allegations pending a possible investigation of the matter. According to Sims. he was wait­ing for a ride from a friend when he was approached by the ollicer. Sims said that the ollicer informed him that a van had been vandalized in front of the building and she asked him to explain why he was standing in front of the building. After answering her questions, Sims said that he walked toward his friend's ear and was about enter when the ollieer yelled at him to stop and told him that he could be arrested. 
• BOSTON UNIVERSITY 
Student might have taken his own life 
BOSTON 

As the investigation continues into Sunday's stabbing death of Harvard University junior David Okrent, his father said yesterday he is willing to a·ccept the likely pos­sibility that his son committed suicide. Okrent was discov­ered early Sunday morning on Hevere Beach, with a single stab wound to his neck. Investigators said yesterday that the knife used in the stabbing belonged to Okrent and was found under his body. Okrent's father, Lawrence, said he knew his son had been depressed. David had taken a semester off from Harvard last spring to return to his home in Evanston. Ill. He also worked in Chicago, where he helped build a computer system for an industrial eom­pany. Aafter returning to school this fall, he had sought counseling. "He was down in the fall. lie called us to say he was unhappy," Lawrence Okrnnt said. "We called him evPry day and brought him home during break." 
• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast AccuWeather® forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
H  L  
Thursday Q  44 36  
Friday  Q  36 28  
Saturday  ~ ·.;.·.;:  35 25  
Sunday  ~ ··:···=··  35 16  
Monday  (f  35 17  
~.l'''.f-"'-v·"',)  
!  


"I don't think the problem is with preferences, because there are pref­erences everywhere you go, like with veterans and athletes," said the social relations senior. "If people think that minorities shouldn't get preferential treatment, we all know it's not true. I think (MSU) is doing a service to themselves by recruiting students that have multicultural experiences." 
.lames Cotter. associate director of MSU's office of admissions and schol­arships, said race is not at all a faetor in aamissions decisions but that MSU is sensitive to divnrsity in recruit­ment. 
"The University is eommitted to a diverse population, but making dnei­sions on freshman and transfnr stu­dent admission to the University on the basis of race is not something that Michigan State University dons," Cotter said. "In terms of when~ we are today, the decisions are indeed made free of one's raeial or ethnic background." 
The Center for Equal Opportunity, a conservative think tank based in Washington. D.C., reported in January that eight Michigan universi­ties, induding MSU, admitted minori­ty students with lower test scores than whitn students in 1995. 
• UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSINwPLATTEVIlLE 
Police uncover narcotics lab in home 
PLATTEVILLE, Wis. 
Two former UW-Madison graduate students are being investigated on charges of manufacturing illegal narcotics in their rural home as well as in a UW medical physics laboratory. Andrei Kulago, 32, and his roommate, Dmitry Sinitsyn, 27, both natives of Moscow, wnrn charged in fed­eral court March 6 with creating a methamphotamirH~ lab in their home in Oregon, Wis. According to the affidavit of detective Mike Geier, who has been working on the ease for the Dane County Narcotics and Gang Task Foree, the home was raided March 3, and inside was found one of the largest methamphetamine labs in the midwest. Further investigation, however. revealed there w1m~ no traces of methamphetamine in the lab. At a March 11 hearing, U.S. attorney Larry Wszalek said a small amount of MDMA, or ecstasy, was found in the home. He said police found ecstasy, boxes of chemicals and glassware, recipes for methamphetamine and papers about the drug in and around the men's homn. 
• UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CAliFORNIA 
Protests arise over Oscar tickets 
LOS ANGELES 
A mob of USC students and others waiting for bleach­er-seat tickets to the Academy Awards protested the academy's policies outside the Shrine Auditorium Tuesday after 500 of the 1,100 available tickets ran out. At 10 a.m., the Aeadmny of Motion Pictun~ Arts and Sciences began handing out 500 priority tirknts. Shortly after 11 a.m., the tiekets ran out. Peopln who had waited in line as early as 6 a.m. screamed that they were being punished and that tickets had bPen given to those who cut in line. The bleacher seats will allow fans to watch nominees and presenters arrive at the awards, which take place Monday night. When told that the otlwr 600 tickets would be given out Sunday at 1 p.m., Hiverside resident Erica Hodriguez said, "we're already here. I go to the movies all the time, and pay my $S lik1~ everyone else." 

q,~,~4.Q.Q  ~  i~ C:::-1  Boston  45  37  Milwaukee 33  30  Tampa  80  65  
Showers  T·storms  Ram  .. Fluffies  ·:· ·:· Snow  Ice  Sunny  F't. Cloudy  Cloudy  Chicago  41  37  Orlando  79  64  Toledo  38  32  
V1a Associated Press GraphtcsNe/  Honolulu  83  69  Phoenix  77  52  Wichita  40  36  

• NATIONAL WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Thursday, March 19. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day 

Pmssurs 
H L 
HIGH LOW SHOWERS RAIN T-STORMS FLURRIES SNOW ICE SUNNY PT CLOUDY CLOUDY V1a Assooo~ted Press 
Atlanta 70 55 Key West 78 73 San Diego 68 54 Baltimore 60 47 Las Vegas 74 46 Seattle 62 39 


-----------~--------~-------~---~~--------------...--------------~ 
Thursday, March 19, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Nurse provides information on women's health 
BY JENNIFER D'ANASTASIO 
News Writer 
Sandy Lasky, head coordina­tor of the Breast Center at the South Bend Memorial 
llospital, provided a plethora of information about breast and pelvic exams and their importance. The information was part of a presentation that included slides and a 

demonstration of a self breast examination last night. 
Lasky believes these proce­dures are essential for every woman. 
"It's getting over that fear of the examinations to take care of yourself that is the hard part," Lasky reflected. "At the breast center we go through the procedure with the women. Helping the women become more comfortable and familiar with their tissue enhances the effectiveness of the exam." 

Although mammograms are not recommended until the age of 40, it is never too early for health awareness, Lasky explained. Breast cancer is second only to lung cancer in the leading causes of death among women, killing nearly 45,000 women annually. Primary risk factors include being over 50 years of age and a family history of the disease. 
Scientists have isolated two of the breast cancer genes so far. Patients who carry the gene have a 65 percent chance of developing cancer, although only seven to 10 per­cent of all breast cancers are inherited. 
Lasky also mentioned that there are ethical concerns over expensive genetic test­ing, although there are no laws preventing discrimina­tion by insurance companies 
on those found to have the cancer gene. 
She also spoke of the impor­tance of pelvic exams. Pelvic exams should begin when a worn an becomes sexually mature, whether or not she is sexually active. 
"The [pelvic exam) is really for everyone," Lasky com­mented. 
With the increase in sexual activity among teens, the risk for cervical cancer -which is completely preventable, detectable and treatable ­also increases. she explained. Risk factors include having more than one sexual partner or having a partner who has been active with more than one partner, according to Lasky. 
Lasky has earned a Master's degree in oncology (the study of cancer) and is working on her doctorate in genetics. After 20 years in nursing, she still finds the health care pro­fession rewarding. Her speech was sponsored by the Student Academic Council for Women's Month. 
"Not only do I get to become good friends with the patients, but I have learned to appreci­ate lire on a day to day basis." 
One &Two Bedroom Apts Available for the '98,'99 School Year and January '98. Summer Rentals June,August. (Check our summer storage specials) 


Sandy Lasky, from the South Bend Memorial Hospital's Breast Center, met with students yesterday to inform them about the importance of annual exams to prevent and treat various cancers. She also explained the genetic influences of these illnesses. 

Hours:
271-1177 Notre Dame 

Mon thru Thurs:
1827 South Bend Avenue 

11 a.m. -1 a.m. Fri thru Sat:
271-PAPA Saint Mary's 

11 a.m. -3 a.m. 
North Village Mall 52568 
l a.m.





expires 3/31 
~------.
1 Gam_e .. -·· -~y 1 I s 
~' . I 
I 
. -tf sticks 1 I · _ QOO I 
L~----..J 

~Voted "Best Delivered Pizza" 
The 1997, '96, '95, '94, & '93 Best of Michiana 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, March 19, 1998 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
Othnr senators disagreed with the com pletc ban on construc­tion, but recognized the fact that more li>cus should be plaeed on helping students in financial nend. 
"It's a good idea in theory, but you ean't deny that Notre Dame has mat«~rial nm~ds. Maybe we should just say 'wn should direct more money to student needs,"' said I>ilion senator Pat Coyle. 
"The University doesn't just get morwy and decide to build: it's all planned out," observed O'Neill s1mator Hajit Basu. "It would be better stated if we focusnd on getting more money for financial aid." 
Members of the senate also stated that thn proposal's word­ing was too harsh. and asked too much of the University. 
"[A proposal to stop building] is not going to be met with agreement." predicted Fisher s«mator Chip Warden. "We can send a message to the adminis­tration to go through with full finandal aid." 
Ultimately, it was agreed to strike the section proposing a stop on building, and simply suggest that Notre Dame place more focus on meeting the financial needs of students. The resolution will be discussed fur­ther at next week's meeting. 
Another bill which was dis­cussed proposed an organized counter demonstration against a Ku Klux Klan march in Elkhart on April4. 
"We should make dear that we don't want them here, and they should go back to where they came from, and, preferably, stay there," said Boyd. 
The proposal suggestnd a col­laboration between the Student Union and any other campus groups which would like to join in the demonstration. 
"W«l should specify that this is a nonviolent event and show that this is a eommunity rally," said Cavanaugh senator Lauren llnrring. "''d like to see this as big as we can get it and get as many people as possibln out there." 
Tlw resolution, calling on the Student Union leadership to "tah direct and immediate action ... to drive the KKK from our midst," passed unanimously. 
Several constitutional amend­ments regarding the role of the Student Union Executive Cabinet were passed last night. Student Union Board manager Andria Wisler and Club Coordination 
Council member Leah Naso pre­
sented the finalized forms of 
changes diseussed at the March 
4 Senate meeting. 
A resolution darifying the role and responsibilities of the Student Union Secretary was proposed by Mark I Iiggins, who will hold that position until April 
1. The proposed changes will make the Secretary "not just someone who goes to meetings and keeps records but who is a big link and helps facilitate com­munication between the Senate and the Executive Cabinet," pre­dieted Higgins. 
The amendment ineludes changing the title of the position to "Secretary-General" and dar­Hies the officeholder's responsi­bilities to provide information to students and government mem­bers and to maintain records of Senate and Executive Cabinet aetivitins. 
In other Senate news: 
• A resolution proposing a let­ter to President Clinton denouneing the United States' "economic war on the citizenry of Iraq" was tabled for further discussion next week. The pro­posed letter, to be signed by Griffin and student body vice­president Erek Nass, echoed similar requests made by the Council of American Bishops and numerous other organiza­tions around the world. 
"By us concurring, we're act­ing as Catholics in stating we support and agree with what our religious leaders have said," stated Keenan senator Matt Mamak. 
Many senators were con­cerned that the letter, which would be signed by only the two leaders of the Student Union, but would speak for the entire stu­dnnt body. 
"It's really a heartening effort, but in the Senate it has no place, because we can't represent our constituents on this," said Pangborn senator Eliza Hommel. 
"A better form for this propos­al would be a general student body response," said O'Neill Senator Basu. 
• Director of Food Services David Prentkowski addressed the Senate on the new 14-meal plan, to be introduced next fall. TIHl plan will allow students to eat 14 meals at dining halls each week, and receive $200 in cred­its at the Huddle. Prentkowski predicted that future additions would enable students to use their credits at other restaurants on campus, such as Waddick's and Greenfields, and possibly even at concession stands in the Joyce Center and Stadium. 
ND-SMC GymnasticsClub r------------,''l;(\0. .c'\\'\f\''J..\cs I {''as 1-1< G'l~ Home St. ~ Time: *United L. "no o~·Saturday, ••Ice March 21, '98 Grape ~4:00 p.m Place: 1 0 (/)Gymnastics :0 w Michiana L------------.J  



continued from page 1 
fessorships and giving more pri­ority funding to the graduate school. 
The major suggestion to improve faculty resources is reducing elass sizes. Smaller classes arc more desirable because they increase the amount of student-faeulty inter­action. The senate also wants the University to incorporate an additional 150 f[tculty members to its staff. This increase in the number of facu11.y would cause an increase in financial demands. 
The Academic Affairs Committee estimated that nearly $200 million would be needed to complete the expansion. While Academic Affairs Committee Chair Greg Sterling said this figure may seem like "pie in the sky," the expendi­tures arc necessary to achieve these goals. 
Faculty Senate Chairman Michael Detlefsen also said money is what will get the University into the top ten and a 
9:1 student/faculty ratio. 
Notre Dame's U!rgency to make the top ten also involves the issue of faculty space expan­sion. Arts and Letters is espe­cially in demand of more space for faculty and graduate stu­dents. Over the last 15 years the faculty has increased from 500 to 687. It is estimated that Arts and Letters needs an additional 90, 000 square feet. 
"Arts and Letters needs a building bigger than Flanner to meets its needs," said Sterling, "and necessity will drive the issue eventually." 
The CommitteH also proposed the building of a new science faculty building where the park­ing lot at Juniper and Krause currently exists. 
"At 60 million dollars, this would be the most ambitious building process ever undertak­en by the University," said Sterling. 
Garrick 
continued from page 1 
and do they still exist?" 
Father Richard Warner, director of campus ministry who is in charge of the Basiliea Mass, could not be reaehnd for comment yesterday. 
Garrick said that his suspen­sion from Basilica Mass was the deciding factor in his resigna­tion. 
"I was already protesting that the University will only give pretty language in a 'Spirit of Inclusion,"' he said. "I had already spoken out against thn fact that homosexuals were not given the legal protection that would have resulted from putting sexual orientation into the non-discrimination clause. But I wanted the opportunity to minister as a priest to the com­munity. Whoever it was that suspended me would havn thought twice about it if sexual orientation had been in the non-discrimination clause." 
He added that he received a lot of support from his fellow faculty members and from his students. 
"Every member of the com­munication and theater depart­ment that has talked to me has been supportive. They seem to express concern over what could have happened that drove me to this course of action," Garrick said. 
"I just got here last fall and only got to know Father Garrick over a short period of time," said Donald Crafton, chair of the communications and the­ater department. "But I consid­er him a friend and a good col­league. I have an affection and respect for him as a colleague and a teacher. It is certainly sad to see him go." 
Garrick's students seemnd to echo this sentiment. 
"I think we are all really pulling for him," said junior Jason Seewer, a business major who is in Garrick's class this semester. "The speech that he gave in class [when he announced that he would resign] was amazing. lie went into a lot of stufl" that we didn't know about. It would be nice if the University could open its eyes as a result ofthis." 
Last year. the Student Sm1ate, Faculty Senate and Campus Life Council all ashd the administration to consider including s«~xual orientation in the official non-discrimination clause. 
In response last September, University President Father Edward Malloy pn~sented the "Spirit of Inelusion," a University policy that named homosexual students and facul­ty as welcome members of the Notre Damn community. 
"We could have done without all the pretty language," Garriek reiteratnd. "They eould havn put, 'sexual orientation according to tlw teachings of thn Catholie Church,' and that would hav!~ solved any prob­lnms. But they didn't." 
Father .John Jenkins, the Supnrior of the local lloly Cross community, said that it was not eertain whnn Garriek's reas­signment would happen. lie would not comment further on the situation. 
Garrick, who's first play, "The Eseapc of Kropotkin," was performnd by a group of his studnnts last month, said that he hopes to continue writing and possibly get his play pro­fessionally produced. lie added that he expected to be reas­signed to parish work because it was too late in the year to try to find a teaching job. 
Provost Nathan Hatch said that he was not surprised to hear of Garrick's resignation but would not comment further without having a chance to review thn situation, and Malloy could not bn rnachnd for eomment. 
Garrick sounded hopeful whnn asked if thn situation changed that he might return to Notre Dame. "You n«wer know where this story will end." he said. 


SU,MMER AB.R0'AD IN 'JVESrERN AWSTRALIA 

....._..,. ·-__ ,...-..!'~~...!.1-..__.._,r•-c• ,,• ...---·-·--~ 
Pl':lOGRAM DATES: JUNE 15, AUGUST 7, 1998 
Notre Dame Australia is offering, for the first time, an opportunity for SUMMER study abroad at its Fremantle and Broome Campuses 
The Program is designed to offer two courses in Arts and Letters or Business 

L
>r more information, come to a meeting :m THURSDAY, March 19th, 5:00 P.M. ROOM 118 DEBARTOLO
--------------=-..:....::....__________...J...­
___.....1 


Thursday, March 19, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Publisher alleges Willey changed story 

Kathlmm Willey's credi­bility was caught in a new crossfire Wednesday as a publisher and a former friend took aim at her alle­gation about a sexual advance by President Clinton. California publish­~~r Michael Viner went on --........;, t!devision to assert that Mrs. Willey's account last Sunday night on "60 Minutes" was "a differ­ent story" from the one given by her lawyer whnn they discussed a possible six-figure book deal over tlw last two months. Across tlw rountry, the Washington lawyer for Julie lliatt su~cln released a sworn affidavit in whid1 her dient says Mrs. Willey asked her to lin about tlw nncounter with r.Jinton. 
Plane crash in Taiwan kills 13 
TAIPEI, Taiwan 

A passenger plane carrying 13 people crashcd Wec!Jwsday night into the Taiwan Strait. All aboard are presumed dead, res­wers said. Early Thursday, rescuers discov­ered a life jacket from the plane and part of a body presumed to be one of the passengers. Hough seas and fog hampered search efforts. The Formosa Airlines Saab 340 disappeared after taking off from llsinchu at 7:30p.m. with eight passengers and five crew mem­bers aboard. the officials said. The plane dis­appeared less than seven miles off the coast. Visibility at Hsinchu airport was 3,200 feet when the plane took off. and winds were light. said Tsai Tui, head of the Civil Aeronautics Administration. The incident fol­lowed a series of plane crashes in Taiwan. 
U.S. troops will stay in Bosnia 
WASHINGTON 

The Clinton administration told a dubious Congress Wednesday it had a legal right to keep thousands of American soldiers on peacekeeping duty in Bosnia without a pull­out deadline and asked for nearly $2.5 bil­lion to finance the operation through September 1999. Within hours, the House voted 225-193 against a hotly fought resolu­tion that would have forced President Clinton to withdraw U.S. troops from Bosnia or get permission from Congress to leave thr,m there. Defense Secretary William Cohen and Secretary of State Madeleine Albright defended the peacekeeping opera­tion as constitutional in testimony before the llouse National Security Committee. Cohen said the troops in Bosnia-Herzegovina, over­seeing a 1995 settlement arranged by the United States to end a 3 1/2-year ethnic war, were unlikely to face hostile fire. 
Dow 
+3.62 

]ONES 
Nasdaq: 
1788.28

8775.40 
+8.98 
Same:' 

I 
.. NYSE: 

u 
565.61 
+2.52 
S&P 500: Composite
I 085.52 Volume: 
+25.41 +5.07 628,736.506 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

('()MI1ANY TICKER % CHAN(jF SGAJN pRICE 
EI'LTF.C"IINOLOGIES F.PTGIJ 81.84 5.50 12.25 h\~ll.Y STEAK liSE RYFLD 58.60 1.172 3.172 MENDOCINO BREWNG M8R 50.00 1.00 3.00 DATA MARK HOLDING DTAM 41.67 1.25 4.25 I!OCA RF.SF.ARCII BOCI 37.50 1.688 6.188 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

COMMODORE 5E·Pm CXOTP 34.55 2.375 4.50 CRYSTALLEX INTI. KRY 29.72 1.375 3.25 ALPIIA II05PITALIT ALPIIY 26.19 0.688 1.938 MILLENNIUM SP·WT MSPTW 21.57 2,75 10.00 SYMMF.TRICOM INC 5YMM 21.15 2.063 7.688 


Amex, Nasdaq approve merger 
AFP Photo Chairman and chief executive officer of the National Association of Securities (NASD) Frank Zarb (L), and chairman and chief executive officer of the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) Richard Syron (R), shake hands bel'ore a news conference to 
announce the merger of AMEX into the NASD family of companies. 
ASSOCIATED PRESS 
NEW YORK 
The Nasdaq Stock Market's parent and the American Stock Exchange on Wednesday approved a merger they said would move them into the 21st century and preserve Wall Street's dominance as the world's financial capital. 
The two markets will continue to operate separately. But their alliance would offer companies and investors the benefit of trading stocks either over the Nasdaq's electronic trading system or in the Amex's floor-based auction market. 
The marriage of the nation's second­and third-biggest stock markets would improve efficiency and save money for companies that want to raise capital for dealers and investors, executives said. It also would provide tougher competition for the venerable New York Stock Exchange. 
"At the end of the day this is a major plus for the investor," said Frank Zarb, chairman and chief executive of the NASD. "We drive down costs big time and the member firms have material savings which can be passed on to investors." 
The deal is expected to result in a undetermined amount of job cuts in areas where services are duplicated, but Zarb said he didn't "expect mas­sive layoffs." Some people whose posi­tions are eliminated could be retrained for jobs in other areas, he added. 
In a news conference in New York, Zarb said that the NASD hasn't ruled out combining with other exchanges, but that he didn't want to "suggest we are on a hunt." 
The combination of the Nasdaq elec­tronic trading system and the Amex auction market creates a hybrid exchange that is similar to those that are found in other major world finan­cial markets. Its familiarity would be more appealing to foreign companies. 
Under the plan, the NASD will spend more than $100 million upgrading the technology of the Amex. Officials said the Amex-Nasdaq combination is "the first step in creating a market of mar­kets" that capitalizes on innovative electronic technology. The deal still faces approval by industry and antitrust watchdogs. It also requires backing from two-thirds of the Amex's 864 member·s, including traders, bro­kers and investors who buy exchange seats for their value and lease them. 
The Nasdaq, which was founded in 1971, has enjoyed a meteoric rise. It is home to some of the nation's biggest high-tech companies, including soft­ware giant Microsoft Corp. 
The 87-year-old Amex has been eclipsed by both the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. Nasdaq's average daily stock volume is 646 mil­lion shares, compared with the Amex's 24 million. 
Industry observers have said the Amex can benefit from the Nasdaq's technology and its deep pockets. Amex dealers also could gain access to the thousands of Nasdaq listed stocks. 
The Amex will allow Nasdaq, which is dominated by smaller companies, to better compete with the NYSE. Nasdaq would be able to sell companies elec­tronic trading and the Amex's auction system under one umbrella. Nasdaq also will gaiin a capable futures and options business from the Amex. 


page 6 The Observer • PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, March 19, 1998 
---------------------------------~~~~~~~ ~~~==~~-------------------------~ 
Calendar of Events 
Fridays during Lent. 7:15 pm. Basilica of the Sacred Heart Stations of the Cross Music Ministry: 
Friday -Saturday. March 20=21 Retreat for Lesbian, Gay and Bisexual Undergraduates and Friends For information, please contact: Kate Barrett at Campus Ministry (1-5242 or katharine.s.barrett.28@nd.edu); Mark at 4­1933 (mark.f.massoud.1@nd.edu) or Alyssa at 4-1884 (alyssa.l.hellrung.5@nd.edu). 
Sunday, March 22 Does your relationship have a future? Should your relationship have a future? Campus Ministry will offer the program 
"What's The Future of This Relationship?," an opportunity to explore issues and questions facing couples in sig­nificant relationships. For more informa­tion. or to register for the program. Call 1­5242 for Chris Etzel, John or Sylvia Dillon. 
Friday -Saturday. March 27-28. St. Joe Hall Freshmen Retreat for residents of Carroll, Cavanaugh, Farley, Fisher, Knott, Pangborn, Siegfried, Stanford and Welsh Family. 
In orogress. LaFortune Box Office Free tickets are now available for the March 21st NBC taping of ..Easter at Notre Dame." This broadcast will be aired nation­ally on Easter Sunday and will involve the Folk Choir and Notre Dame students. 
Fourth Sunday of Lent 
LAETARE SUNDAY 
Weekend Presiders at Sacred Heart Basilica Saturday, March 21 
5:00 p.m. (Note: Mass in Crypt) Rev. Brian E. Daley, S.J. Sunday, March 22 
10:00 a.m. Rev. Richard V. Warner, C.S.C. 
11:45 a.m. Rev. James M. Lies, C.S.C. Vespers Sunday, March 22 7:15p.m. Sr. Mary Ann Mueninghoff, O.F. Scripture Readings 1st Reading Joshua 5:9-12 2nd Reading 2 Corinthians 5:17-21 Gospel Luke 15:1-3, 11-32 

Hey Gang, It Isn't Over Yet! 
Jim Lies, C.S.C. 
What isn't over yet? You ask. Well, I'll tell you: none of it! And this isn't only for the Seniors; this is for each and all of you. None of it is over yet: the hope for a reasonably respectable semester academically; the possibility of actually making something of Lent in the three weeks we have left; the hope of meeting, in these remaining days of the semester, the person who might most significantly impact our lives on the longterm. Those are but three examples. The fact is that the remaining weeks of this semester, few though they may seem, offer us endless possibilities with regard to who we are and who we could become. 
The great danger is that we have settled into a routine or a mindset which doesn't make room for the possibility that God may have something to say to us in these seemingly waning days of the school year. We can't seem to muster enough energy to imagine that these may be the days during which we could become more com­pletely the people we most deeply want to be. Oh, it's all about the self-help movement; it's about satisfying friendships and love rela­tionships; it's about balance in our lives and finding peace at the cen­ter even when it seems that the world offers us everything but; it's about becoming the people we've always said we wanted to be, trim and fit, physically, emotionally and spiritually. 
It's just that that self-help, that self-improvement project, isn't often found in the places to which the world would direct us to find it, or sadly, in the places that we aU too often seek it. It isn't found in a weekly alcohol binge; it isn't found in the "eat-all-you-want-and-still­lose-weight" diet plan; 1lt isn't even found in that daily work-out rou­tine that you're so remarkably faithful to; it isn't found in that job that you've always wanted, or in that professional school that's finally going to give meaning to your life. 
Let me put it to you simply: It is only found in God. Yes, it is that simple. It is only found in God. You may be in the best shape you've ever been, physically, and still not find peace at the center; you may have a great time partying with friends on the weekends and still there's an emptiness; you may be headed toward that job or profes­sional school that you thought you always wanted and still be won­dering if you're headed in the right direction. Listen gang, there's only one "right direction." It is only in relationship to God that we will ever find the peace that we seek. It is only found in God. It may come as a shock to you, especially if you haven't attended to that rela­tionship in a while, or ever. I suppose if you're a self-described atheist then you have no worries; you can continue to pursue peace in all the ways that you have up to now. But if you're not, if you're like me, then we need to be about the business of seeking God in our lives. Because those of us who believe in God, believe that we are nothing without God, and that peace will never be ours except in God. 
The real trick in life is to be fat, have no friends, and no job and still find peace and contentment. And believe me, there is only one way to do that and it is in God. Okay, so I'm kidding slightly, but I do think that there is great irony in the fact that when we put aside all that the world deems important, when we surrender all the things that are false props in our lives, like pride, control, alcohol, sex, or almighty independence, for a relationship with Jesus Christ, all that we need will come to us. There will be a contentment in us that inevitably draws others to seek it for themselves. There will be a bal­ance in our lives that doesn't always seek immediate pleasures but long term joy. There will be in us a greater appreciation for the things that do matter, and the friendships and pursuits that do give us life. 
So just how do we do that? How do we put God at the center of our lives? This University offers a multitude of ways that might aid you in the ultimate of self-help projects; but to be honest, it's going to be different for every one of us. Some things will work for one person and not for another. Ultimately, I think we know what we need to do. Somewhere deep down inside of us, we know. Let the remaining weeks of Lent be the time that we pursue the Lord in earnest. Let this be the time when we at least pray, and reflect, and listen, to all the 

0MPUS

ways in which God might speak to us about the joy that we seek. 
MINISTRY 


Thursday, March 19, l ~98 
The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Wisconsin experiments with new welfare system 
By ERICA THESING 
News Writer 
The welfare system in the United States is changing rapid­ly, and states need to be respon­sible for monitoring the people affected by those changes, according to Professor Tom Corbett of the University of Wisconsin. 
Corbett has watched numer­ous changes in the welfare pro­gram of his home state of Wisconsin. He is especially con­cerned with the high numbers of people who seem to disappear once they are removed from the welfare payroll. 
"Where have the people gone? I'm here to report that no one has the foggiest idea. My person­al belief is that they've all been taken into outer space by aliens and will be the next episode of X-Files," he said with a smile. 
Corbett feels that the states who are reforming their pro­grams need to develop a system for tracking the former recipi­ents who become ineligible for aid. 
"That's something I fault the state on -for not setting up a monitoring system for not only people who have left the rolls, but also for those who don't come into the social services office anymore because they don't think they can get help there," he said. 
Unlike others who point to high prices or increasing case loads as the impetus for reform, 
ceramics, creative writing, fibers (smc-core credit), printmaking (SMC-core credit) & sculpture 
sponsored by Department of Art Saint Mary's College 
call 284-4655/284-4631 

Corbett believes that the push for change stems from a public perception of a connection between welfare recipients and certain social behaviors. These include teen pregnancy, single parent families and child abuse. 
"People realized that there were these fundamental flaws with the old system," Corbett said. "As people began making this connection between welfare and behavior, people began to have expectations for the [wel­fare] program." 
Corbett recognizes that, despite the many conflicting the­ories on methods to reform wel­fare, there is agreement that change is necessary. 
"We have a consensus on at least one issue; the old welfare system was flawed and deserved to be changed dramatically," he said. 
In Wisconsin, that change meant creating a new program called Wisconsin Works, or W-2. By outlining six main problems with the former welfare system, W-2 seeks to empower people to stand on their own feet. 
"They are moving in the direc­tion of dissolving the clear boundary of the welfare sys­tem," Corbett said. "Everything is designed to move away from the notion that there is an agency that gives checks to poor people." 
The former system, according to Corbett, discouraged people on welfare from seeking work because they feared a loss of benefits. 
"If you did choose to work, we would make your life a living hell. Essentially· we made it very difficult for you to do the right thing," he said. 
W-2 sets up a four-tier system where benefits and require­ments vary according to person­al skills and levels of indepen­dence. Potential participants must be actively looking for work !before they can enroll in the program, and must attend job training classes throughout the program. 
"Everyone is obligated to work every week," Corbett said. "In reality, it doesn't work out that way, but that's the obligation on paper." 
Each of the four tiers, requires at least 20 to 40 hours of work a week, in either a paid or com­munity service position. As members obtain better jobs, they move to a higher tier with fewer benefits. The ultimate goal is to slowly reduce benefits until par­ticipants are no longer depen­dent on the system. 
Corbett realizes that W-2 and other welfare reform programs are still far from perfect, but stresses that the process is still evolving and should be continu­ally studied. 


Couple: 'Embrace Intimacy' 
ByKELLYANOE 
News Writer 
A discussion given last night by husband and wife Dominic and M.J. Murray Vachon cen­tered on embracing intimacy in relationships. 
A central theme for the night was that intimacy can range from relationships with siblings to friends to lovers. According to Murray Vachon, "one way to understand God's unconditional love is through intimacy with others." 
During the presentation, Murray Vachon asked each participant to rank six stages of relationships in a healthy rela­tionship and how they rate in a typical relationship. Although physical intimacy is the last stage in a healthy relationship, it ranks third in typical rela­
tionship~. 
According to her husband, that is due to the fact that everyone wants physical inti­macy in their relatioships to make them feel closer to anoth­er person. However, it often comes prematurely. Murray Vachon's point to remember is that "the core of a healthy romantic relationship is friend­ship." 
The couple both see time as an essential factor in any mar­riage. The average amount of time before a divorce used to be seven years, now it is only four years. She believes that statistic is due to the failure of many couples try to work out their problems anymore. 
Also, she classifies relation­ships in stages, in which "the first stage is infatuation, which lasts for two years. After the infatuation stage, people find out there are many things they don't like about their partner. They don't take the time to lis­ten to their partner to resolve their ptoblems." 
"Conflict is normal in any type of relatioship. If I'm in an intimate relationship and haven't had any tension, the relationship remains untested." 
The most important part of a good relationship is communi­cation, which is difficult to have. 
"When you tell something personal about yourself to someone else and your rela­tionship ends, they will always have a piece of you that you have given them," according to Vachon. 
"Something to always remember is that the key to a good relationship is communi­cation. The key to good com­munica,tion is listening to the other person." 

WIN SIX FREE TICKETS 
Visit us on the web ond find out how to win six free* round·trip tickets anywhere American flies in the. continental U.S. See web page for rules and sped1cs. 

SPECIAL lt~W AIR FARES Sign up for Colles1e SA~ver Fares™ and Nel S~Aver Fares'M a,1nouncing special savings to selected destinlltions via your e-mail. 
CU.LECT IAD'IIANTAGE* MR.ES 
Enroll in the AAdvantage travel awards program and also learn about many other ways to travel for less with American. 

AmericanAirlines· 
American£~ 
Thursday, March 19, 199~

page 8 The Observer· NATIONAL NEWS 
Court strikes down restrictive law El Nino season nears 
The Associ~ted Press 
LOS ANGELES 
California's voter-approved law dnnying education, social serviens and somn hnalth ben­~~nts to illngal immigrants is complntely unconstitutional, a fndnral judge said in a ruling rnadn public Wndnesday. 
U.S. District .Judge Mariana l'fanlznr already had struck down most provisions of the nwasun~ in November. This w1wk, stu~ got rid of the rest of thn law, which voters passed ovnrwhnlmingly in 1994 as Proposition 187. 
Thn dneision resultnd from a consolidation of sevnral law­suits f'ilnd against the state ovnr thn initiativn, which has not takm1 elTect beeausn of the eourt challenges. 
(;ov. Pete Wilson, a staunch supporter of Proposition IS7, vowed an appeal of l'faelzer's decision. 
"ller analysis of the measure 
is fundamentally flawed," Wilson said in a statement. "This action will allow us to finally appeal her decision to the Ninth Circuit so that the will of the people can be upheld." 
In her November ruling, the judge eoncluded the proposi­tion was unconstitutional because it attempts to regu­late immigration, which only the federal government can do. 
"The states have no power to legislate in this area," the judge reiterated in the deei­sion issued late Tuesday. 
"We are pleased," said Tomas Saenz, counsel for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund. "It vindieates the impor­tant constitutional principal that we cannot be on1~ nation unless we have one immigra­tion policy ~~t by the federal government. 
The American Civil Liberties 


liftoff preparations daillage space shuttle 
The Associated Press 
CAPE CANAVEHAL. I'Ia. 
Space shuttle Columbia was banged and part of its outer thermal layer damaged during routine preparations for a launch next month, NASA said Wednesday. 
The mishap occurred in the Vehide Assembly Building late Tuesday. Technieians had just hoisted Columbia into a verti­cal position and attached its two booster rockets and an external fuel tank. As the pow­erful lifting sling was removed, it struck near the lower left belly of Columbia, said NASA spokesman Joel Wells. 
Part of a protective thermal blanket was ruined and had to be replaced, Wells said. Engineers found no evidence of structural damage under­neath, and there also was no damage to the thermal tiles, he added. 

Union branded the final deci­sion "an overwhelming victo­ry." 
The ruling meant "teachers and doctors are not to become substitutes for immigration officers," said Mark Hosenbaum, legal director of the ACLU of Southern California. The proposition relied on publie employe1~s. including teachers, reporting undocumented immigrants to authorities. 
Hosenbaum noted that no other states had followed California's lead, as often hap­pens with initiatives from the state. 
Wilson contended that recent federal welfare reform, which denies payments to ille­gal immigrants, actually empowers states to rngulate public benefit issues. But t.he judge said the federal law ended any further debate about what the states could do. 
~ ~ 
BOOK SEARCH 

• 
Used, rare and out-of-print books 

• 
Initial cost of $2.00 

• 
Nationall•,' -circulated ad 

• 
Success rate of 50% 

• 
Time Required: 2 months 


ERASMUS BOOKS 
Open noon to six Tuesday through Sunday 1027 E. Wayne South Bend, IN 46617 
(219) 232-8444 

.~ 
end; storms diminish 
The Associated Press 
MIAMI 
El Nino-driven storms should start to dwindle in the next month, but will likely limit the number of powerful Atlantic hurricanes that menace the coast this year, a top government forecaster said Wednesday. 
Forecaster Ants Leetmaa with the National Oceanic and Atmospherir: Administration said it's likr~ly that storms that haw battered South Florida and othPr parts of the country will taper off in the next few weeks. 
El Nino refers to warmer­than-normal water in the Pacific. a condition that disrupts weather worldwide. 
Leetmaa says there are already sonw signs of cooling. but he said conditions won't be dose to normal until the sum­mer. He said Florida should get about two more weeks of El Nino rainstorms. 
"There is a light at the end of the tunnel," he said of' the storms. 
"We are forecasting condi­tions to start to return back to normal this summertime, although the Pacific will still b1~ slightly warm," he said. "There will be a mild El Nino out there." 
lie said the remnant of' El Nino should still have an 1dl'net on the Atlantic hurricane sea­son that starts June 1. 
"Historically, when the Pacific is warm, the number of class three, four and live hurricanes will be less," Leetmaa said of the most powerful storms. "So one might anticipate this com­ing year will have some­what fewnr storms. But that docs not preclude th1~ possibility of one big storm coming into tlw Southeast." 
Attention SOPHOMORESIIIIII 
Want to plan one of the greatest events of your Notre Dame experience ....... 
Apply now to be 
JUNIOR PARENTS' WEEKEND CHAIRPERSON 
~A~plications available i~ 315 LaFortune 
~~Mtt,.,~ Dead/me. 5 p.m., March 24 


Thursday March 19, 1998 The Observer· PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
Asian AmePicans qn tile APts· ~apcfl 20 ~ Ap, i c 4, 1998 
March 20, Friday 
March 26, Thursday 
EAST ASIAN STUDIES 
LUMPIA NllGHT 
SYMPOSIUM 
7 pm esc 

March 21, Saturday THE KING OF ROCK & ROLL 
March 31, Tuesday ELVIS ..... IS IN THE BUILDING LITERARY ROUNDTABLE WITH 
performed by Elvis John Newinn FATHER MALLOY Cosponsored by VSA, AIS, 7PM Student Government & Troop ND MOVIE: "HEAVEN AND EARTH" 8pm Washington Hall 8 PM Nieuwland 127 
March 22, Sunday 
April 1, Wednesday

25 PSYCHICS-A COMEDIC ONE-WOMAN SHOW 
GENERAL MEETING & MOVIE: "DRAGON" 
performed by Lauren Tom 8 pm Washington Hall 
8 pm Nieuwland 127
KOREAN CLUB DINNER 5:30PM, CSC. TICKET: $4. 

April 3, Friday March 24, Tuesday ASIAN PACIFIC ALUMNI OF NOTRE DAME; FASO PHOTO EXHIBIT & MOVIE "CAREER OPTIONS POST NOTRE DAME" 7 pm, LaFortune Ballroom 8 pm, Location TBA 

VIEWPOINT 
page I 0 Tuesday, March 17, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OF~ICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY'S OFFICI'.: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER Brian Rcinrhaler Kyle Carlin A~SISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
}leather MacKenzie NEWS EDITOR .. ...Matthew Loughran ADVERTISING MANAGER ........................Kris Klein VIEWrOINT EmTOR..... .. ........ Eddie Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ....................... Brett Hudat SI'ORTS ElliTOR .. .. ........... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER.. .. .......... Michael Brouillet ACCENT EmmRs... .. ...............Sarah Dylag WF.B ADMINISTRATOR ........ Jennifer Breslow 
Kristi Klirsch CoNTROU.ER ....... ....................... Dave Rogero SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .. .. .... Shannon Ryan I'IIOTO ElliTOR ........................ Kevin Dalum 
The ( Jh~ervcr i) the mdcpc:ndcm ncm.paper JH!hli.\hed by the ~cudent)o of rhe Universiry of Notre: Dame du Lac and S.1int Mary':t (:ollcge. lr do~ n<ll nct:rll\arily rellcct 1he policic!o of the .tdmini ... trarion nf t"ither institution. 'I'he news is reported .u ;an:uratdy .tnd ohjceuvdy .t.\ po!asihlc. Umi~ncd editorial!> represent the opinion of the majoriry of the 
Edicur-m-Chicf. M.magmg f.dilOr, A.uist3.nt M.an.tgtng Editor, Nt'Ws Editor, Vit'Wpoim EJicor, Sports Editor, Ac:ccnt Editnr... , S.tint M.&ry's EJuor o~ml Phow EJitnr. Comment.&riC!>, letters ami columns prcscm the views of the .wrhun•. .tnd nut necn~.mly thnsc of The Observer. Vit:Wpoim space is available co all members of the Norre t >arne/Saint M.1ry's (ummuni(}' .md co all reader.... "l'hc free exprcs.~ion of varying opinions through letters is encour­.lgcJ. Thr l )b.\ervrr r~rvC.\ the right to edit all ,ubmi~ions bOLSed on nmtent nr space re.stricrions. 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chicf 6.ll-4542 Business Offico 631-5313 Managing Ediror/A.<Sistant ME 6.ll-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phuro 6.li-S323 Systems 631-8839 Spurts 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Acccnr/Sainl Mary's 6.ll-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Vi~"'l.,oint.l @nd.edu Day EJiror/Vicwpoinr (d 1-530.1 Ad E-Mail ob.~ocrvcr@darwin.cc.nd.cdu Office Managcr/Gencrallnformarion 6.ll-7471 News E-Mail obscrvcr.obsncws.l @nd.cdu 

• LEnER TO THE EDITOR 
Gay Priest Resigns in Protest 
This letter is to inform you that I have tendered my resignation from the faculty of the University of Notre Dame, effective at the end of the 1997-1998 year. 
It is my intention that this resignation shall serve as a heart-felt protest against the refusal of the officers of the University to make a legal provision for the equal rights for gay persons at Notre Dame. It is my hope that this protest will stimulate informed and produc­tive public exchanges here at Notre Dame on homo­sexual issw~s in general, and on social justice for gay persons In particular. It is my belief that Notre Dame, my belovHd Alma Mater, will one day take tho load in the liberation of gay people from discrimination, deri­sion and false witness. 
On a more personal note, my resignation serves as a protest against the treatment that I have received from Notre Dame's administration since The Observer published a letter from me on April 4. 1996. In that letter I presented a Catholic perspective on homosexu­al issues and I carne out as a gay, celibate priest in solidarity with our gay stud~mts here on campus. Shortly after the publication of that letter, 1 was sus­pended. without notifieation, from Eucharistic and Confessional ministry at the Basilica of the Sacred 
Heart. 
The Basilica had been my primary forum for priestly ministry to Notre Dame students, since I am not a chaplain in a residonce hall. The ministry of mine has now been barren for a year and a half. Only last November did I diseover that an actual suspension let­ter had be~m given. Now I have been told that I wa...:; suspended from Ba..'iilica ministry because of the poor quality of my homilies. After a full review of the avail­able facts about my susptmsion, I dedine to accept this explanation. 
In my opinion. I would not have been suspended from the Basillea if the University's non-discrimination (~lause had listed 'sexual orientation aecording to thfl teachings of the Catholic Church· as a protected minority status. I dose this letter with a quotation from Psalm 123, whkh is the prayer in the heart of every gay believer: 'Have pity on us, 0 Lord, have pity on us. for we arc more than sated with the moekery of th11 arrogant, with the wnternpt of the proud.' 
Rev. David A. Garrick, C.S.C. Assistant Professor DPpt of Communication and Theatre March 17, 1998 

• THE BELLE OF SAINT MARY's 
The Trials ofa Lenten Sacrifice 

We're nearly halfway through Lent, which means I'll have to con­tinue doing without approximately eighty percent of my working vocabulary for another three weeks. Such is life when you for­sake swearing on Ash Wednesday. Easter Sunday will indeed be a joy­ous occasion as I celebrate tho res­urrection of the Lord with a refresh­ing torrent of obscenities ("Happy *#!%ing Easter, Grandma!") 
I don't think I'm going to make it. Cussing a refined blue streak is one of tho most valuable skills I've learned in college, and having to do without crushes any conversational en·ect I've developed over the last throe years. Censoring myself gives me such sentences as "Darn that male oflspring of a female dog! lie's such an illegitimate man! What a part of male genitalia! I should just tell him to go have sexual inter­course om", whieh somehow just doesn't give me the personal fulfill­mont that the beepable version would. 
I'm seriously considering amass­ing a bunch of friends and assigning one cuss word per person -for instance, Kevin would be "&?#$", Carah would be "@?*#", Kelly would be "$-*!", and so on. They'd follow me around on a twenty-four­hour basis in order to provide me with instant Virtual Swearing. I'd just point to whomever is in charge of my particular word of choice, and he or she would shout it at the intended subject on my behalf. Almost as satisfying as self-provided ollimding. 
I desperately needed Virtual Swearing this wnek when I attempt­ed to play pickup basketball, whieh should rngistor as personal penance in and of itself. This basketball busi­ness kicked up when I began amassing a Bookstore team lor the honor and glory of sport and because I wanted to participate in this rich Notre Dame tradition and because I heard everybody's going to get free T-shirts. I refuse to demean myself, however, by invent­ing a traditionally offensive and degrading name for my team ("SMC's You'll Score On") even though I have the athletic ability of Yo-Cream. But I'm pretty cool with basketball other than the fact that I can't. shoot or pass or handle the ball and I'm not entirely clear on what the rules an~ except that I'm pretty sure that hugging tho ball to your chest while running away from members of tho opposing team is somewhat frow1wd upon. 
Mary Beth Ellis 
Most of my female friends are within the same ability and knowl­edge range. "But I suck at basket­ball," they'd say when I'd ask them to play. 
As do I. As do the bulk of teams who enter Bookstore, which of course is the beauty of it. Everybody sucks! Everybody plays! It's America at its best! You're praeti­cally not allowed in the tournament unless you have at least one 4"9 kid whoso shooting style consists of holding the ball at knee l1wel and chucking tho ball in the direction of an overflying 7 4 7. 
Anyway, a teammate and I dneid­ed to practice, so we gath<~red with a few of our male friends who suck less than we do. This was a highly valuable practice session during which the men assisted us a great deal in honing our basketball skills by conducting the game as follows: 
1. One of the men makes a bas­ket. 
2. A male member of the oppos­
ing team hurls thn ball down th<~ length of the eourt to <HJe of his male teammates. 
3. The rest of the nHm stampede after the ball and congregate around the basket in order to shtlVI~ each other around. 
4. Hepnat. 
My friend and I weren't terribly tired even after two full hours of hurling the ball up and down the length of the court hecaust~ we touched the ball a combined total of maybn once. Not that I can blanw the men in my casn, for my entin\ ofl'tmsive strategy consists of dutch­ing tho ball while screaming, "WIIAT DO I DO NOW?!" befort) flinging at in the general vicinity of a teammate. As opposed to my defensive strategy, which consisl'i of running after whomever has the ball while yelling "Gimmo!" A typi­cal play sounded likn this: 
ME: I'M OPEN! I'M OPEN!!!! I'M lUGIIT BEl liND YOU! TIIEIWS NO ONE NEAH ME! BACK! I'M­
MALE MEMBEH OF MY TEAM: (Chooses to pass to another mal!\ player currently guarded by four people.) 
ME: You person having sexual intercourse with a female parnnt. 
It was frustrating as fecal mattt~r. but I consoled myself with tho fact that most future MFA's simply amn't blessed with grnat ganw. We get to craf't unmarkntable skills instnad. Ynah. the other team might havn grace and powm· and amazing abs, but can they analyz<\ tlw domi­nant themes of class-g<\ndPr dichotomies in "David Copperfield'"? lluh? Can they? The littl<~ posterior regional orifiens. 
Mary Beth Ellis is a junior Hnglish wrilinglpolitical science major at ,".'aint Mary's Col/eye. 
'111e vies expressed in the column are those ofthe author and not nec­essarily those of'lite Ohseruer. 

• 000NESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
• fiUOTE OF THE DAY 


VIEWPOINT
Tuesday, March 17, 1998 page 11 
• LETTERS To THE EDITOR 
ROTCAtND/s Not Hypocritical, It's Essential 
am writing in response to the ignorant argu­
ments posed by a well-intentioned Mr. 
McMahon in the March 18 edition of The 
Obsnrvnr. First of all. I would like to admit that I am a Senior Army HOTC cadet, about to enter the mili­tary. I am also a theology major. I have approachea this nxaet issue from many different viewpoints, but am enrtain that Mr. McMahon is only looking through the world in his own narrow view. 
First off. instead of referring to us as "professional Trainnd Soldiers," he prefers to belittle us by refer­ring to us as "trained in the art of murder." This is an ignorant statmnent at best. Thfl vast majority of our training in HOTC has nothing to do with military warfare. Most of graduating cadets will enter into a branch that has little or nothing to do with killing p<wple. Many will be lawyers. doctors. engineers, just performing their duties in the military. The fact that these studPnts are called to the vocation of pro­fessional soldiers should not be shunned by an obvi­ously ill-informml McMahon. Rather, the different ealling of his f11llow Christian should be appreciated. 
I qunstion his interprntation of the Catholic tradi­tion as somehow anti-military. It is true that the Catholic church has. and always will be, against war. But. it never has, and probably never will be, against Catholies serving in an Army, Navy, or Air Force. In faet, as latP as World War II. it was considPred a duty of a good Catholic to go to war if called upon by tlw government. For a Church whose traditions are formed from 2000 years of experiences, this modern trend at this Univnrsity for pacifism hardly dictates that Catholics are required to be .pacifists. 
But then again, who has more interest in being a pacilist, someonn who is sitting at home in Central Massachusetts, nnjoying some niee dam chowder, or a young Sncond Linutenant who might be called to go to tlw war. I mon1 than anyone want peace to reign. 
Mr. McMahon talks about the formation of his con­seiPnee and how it predudes him from being a pro­fllssional soldier. I must respect that opinion, but he should mspect mine. I have asked myself these exact same questions. I even took theology as a major to help rnysrdf understand the implications of my call­ing. I can, in all honesty, say that I am fully prepared to deal with the moral dilemma of being called to war. Not because I was enrolled in HOTC, but because I was enrolled at Notre Dame. 
I would argue that it is not hypocritical to have HOH: at Notre Dame. Bather. it is essential. Many tim11s McMahon points to morally questionable actions by the U.S. military and states this is a rea­son for Catholic inaction. I see this rather as a call for Catholic action. If there is a leader of the military who is well versed in Catholic moral teachings, then thesn morally agregious acts may not have hap­pmwd. (I must interject here that McMahon, at best, portrays the incidents from a very limited viewpoint. Perhaps the military did bomb an air raid shelter, but perhaps Saddam Hussein was hiding a nuclear weapons facility under the air raid shelter which, if not bombed. would produce weapons of mass dnstruction. But McMahon either fails to realize this, or mon1 likely ignored it because it made him sound bettPr.) 
Finally. I am r.oncerned by the utter insensitivity David McMahon shows for me as a person. When rnading articles like this, I am sorrowed. lie attacks my vocation with no care or concern for me. I ask you, would Christ say to David McMahon that because somnonP in his profession sinned, he should not bn in that profession? Perhaps, like John the Baptist says to tlw soldinrs, "Do not practice extor­tion. do not falsnly aceus11 anyone. and be satisfied with your wagns. "(Lk 3: 14) My vocation is that of a prof'nssional soldier. I have accepted that. I am proud to servP my country. But I do remember that I serve God first and f'ornmost. I would hope that although pnopl!1 lik11 McMahon are not called in this occupa­tion, thny respect our V<ll~ation. There is nothing Christlike in his last line. when he compares me to a Homan soldier gambling for the clothes of Christ. Hatlwr. I would ask David to stop throwing stones until he can prove to mn that he and his occupation are without faults. If David is truly concerned, I instead ask him to pray the following as often as pos­sible: "May God watch over and protect all of the Senior cadets as they enter their prospective military carn<1rs. May I Ie guide and protect them all. May God forgive them for any sins which they commit in per­forming of their duties." 
Jeremy Lingenfelser Senior, Morrissey Manor March 18, 1998 

Cheer Fencers OnTo A National Championship 
Do you want to win a National Championship? It's been a while since Notre Dame brought home a National Championship, but we could win one this weekend. 
From Thursday through Sunday Notre Dame hosts the NCAA Fencing Tournament, and our very own fencing team is battling for the championship right now. Consistently ranked in the top three year after year, the fencers enter the tour­nament ranked third in the nation. Yes, the rankings place them behind perennial archrival Penn State, which is all the more reason to make the most of our home turf advantage. 
We have ten of the best fencers in the country representing Notre Dame this weekend, including several All-Americans and a defending National Champion. The fencers have an impressive 25-1 record for this season, but there is one thing left to do. 
There is a National Championship Trophy to be won, but not without your support. Odds are poor that the Penn State fans will travel all the way here, but all we have to do is cross the street. From approximately 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday our strongest fencers will embark on a quest for the title. It's a short walk over to the Angela Athletic Facilities at Saint Mary's, and it's free. 
Surely you can spare a few hours to cheer the fencers on to their best and to show the spirit that makes Notre Dame famous. Be a part of the National Championship and cheer the Irish to victo­ry! 
Theresa U rbanic Breen-Phillips March 17, 1998 


Boxers Win This Round 
A
t a time when there is so much negativity, greed, and ego involved in sports, it is amazing to me that someone would 
try to detract from an example of what all sports should 
aspire to. The only explanations I can think of are jealousy, igno­
rance and cowardice. Mr. Kessler seems to be an authority on the 
origin and evolution of the Bengal Bouts, but I wonder-have you 
ever stepped foot in the boxing room? There are so many inaccu­
racies in Mr. Kessler's short article, I almost don't know where to 
start. Since it titles your article, lets start with the jackets. Yes, 
the winner and runner-up get jackets, but did you know that the 
boxers -not the team or the University -pays for T-shirts, 
shorts, hand-raps, mouth pieces, shoes, hats and sweatshirts at an 
above-cost price so as to turn a profit for the missions. In fact, the 
soon to be delivered varsity-style warm-up jackets were pur­
chased at an expense of $75 to each boxer. Should the champions 
not even be allowed one trophy free-of-charge in recognition of all 
their hard work and accomplishment. The finalist jacket is the 
only tangible thing any boxer has the opportunity to receive with­
out payment, yet that is what you chose to focus your article on. 
You claim to be tired if reading about the boxers acting as if 
they are doing some great charitable thing. For starters, saving 
lives and funding the construction of school ,and medical buildings 
are great charitable things, and who are yout to condemn people 
for feeling good about doing something truly worth being proud 
of? Last year we raised $24,000, and this year is expected to net 
in excess of $35,000. Every boxer must raise at least $100 even to 
have the right to purchase gear. Every practice involves a discus­
sion about what things need to be done in order to raise the 
desired amount of money for Bangladesh. In reality Mr. Kessler, 
$35,000 doesn't just raise itself by accident while we hang out 
beating each other up and hitting on women. In the weeks leading 
up to the Bouts, when training time is at a premium, the boxers 
are asked to commit even more time to the cause. 
Those of us who box are for the most part athletic, emotionally 
resilient young men. That is what we have to offer. Our talents 
don't warrant us ·holding a bake sale or putting on a play, and nei­
ther of those could consistently raise the kind of money we do, 
while at the same time teaching the participants the lessons box­
ing does about sacrifice, hard work, disappointment, discipline 
and facing fear and adversity. That aside, most of the boxers are 
fairly laid-back guys outside the ring, and in reality the team is a 
lot more about compassion than it is about aggression. Ask any 
novice boxer, who isn't a natural, how many times a future jacket­
wearer really beat him up in the ring. It never happens. The 
champions help those who need it most and never take advantage 
of another boxer's comparative weakness. As for glory, yes, it is 
involved in the Bouts. But what sporting event isn't motivated by it 
to some degree. Boxers experience great elation and glory from 
winning, but most experience at least twice as much disappoint­
ment and frustration in the process. Just ask the president of the 
boxing team, Ryan Rans, who ruptured his spleen freshman year 
and recently broke both his hands leaving him with casts for the 
rest of his senior year and possible permanent damage. Ask your­
self Mr. Kessler, how many of the 15 varsity basketball players 
can you name? Now compare that with how many of the 100 box­
ers you can name-Fame and glory indeed! I won't even dignify 
the comment about picking up women with a response, but I will 
say that due to our time commitments, more girlfriends are lost 
during the season than gained. I myself can count on one hand the 
number of times I left my apartment socially this semester leading 
up to the Bouts. 
As for your analysis of Mr. Frick's article it's worth noting that 
you again chose to focus on the one small thing you could twist 
around. Unlike you, Mr. Kessler, I do not purport to know what 
Mr. Frick really thinks about while boxing. I will say that anyone 
who has actually been in the ring would telll you that, in the 
extreme struggle of a boxing match, inspiration is drawn from 
many different sources. I myself write the initials of family mem­
bers or close friends over my heart to remind me of the support I 
have back home. In the nervous momimts loading up to a bout. I 
calm myself down and keep things in perspective by thinking 
about all that I have already accomplished by raising money and 
getting into great shape. In any case, sweeping generalizations 
like the ones you make about what all fighters think about in the 
ring, or that the entire team is a bunch of liars are never accu­
rate. 
I think the basic misunderstanding you are communicating in 
¥our article is that the boxers claim to be motivated solely by rais­
mg money for Bangladesh. That is not the ease. We are motivated 
by a desire to get in the best shape of our lives, learn how to box, 
compete in a pure sport, and be part of a group of quality people 
-among other reasons. What we do claim. Mr. Kessler. is that 
regardless of what draws each individual to the boxing room. rais­
ing money for the mission is the most important asp:>ct of the 
Bengal Bouts and the driving force of our actions once we join the 
team. None of us claim to be saints, but I and all thosn involved 
(including the women managers and boxer:;} are proud to be part 
of such a noble organization. I simply refuse to let a negative, 
ignorant article attempting to smear something that means so 
much to me go unanswered. In the end, your article is much more 
about what you stand for Mr. Kessler than it is about what the 
Bengal Bouts stand for. 
You claimed the Bengal Bouts are inspirrd by aggrnssion and 
glo.ry. I assume, based on your article, that you are petty and 
umnformed. Now that I have proven you wrong. why don't you 
prove me wrong by being a man and writing an apologv, admit­
ting you don't have the first clue what the Bengal Bouts are all 
about. 
Kevin Murphy Second year law student March 18, 1998 

page 12 The Observer • SPORTS Thursday, March 19, 1998 
• MAJOR lEAGUE BASEBALL 

Indians lose to Tampa Bay after Ramirez incident 
Associ•ted Press 
Cleveland star Manny Hamirez did not travel with the team to Wednesday's exhibition game against Atlanta as the Indians sorted out an altereation between the right fielder and a clubhouse attendant. 
Hamirez reportedly slapped club­house assistant Tom Foster after being told that he could not remove two bats from the equipment room. The altercation took place about two hours after the Indians lost H-4 to the Tampa Bay lhwil Hays on Tuesday. 
"From what I understand, there was an altercation," general manager John llart said. "It was an isolated incident. We've addressed it internally." 
llart would not say whether Hamirez would be fined or suspended. 
llart and manager Mike Hargrove both said Hamirez stayed at the Indians' training site in Winter Haven, Fla., because of a pulled left quadri­ceps muscle. 
llargrove said he talked with Hamirez for about an hour before going to Kissimmee, Fla., for a 10-0 loss to the Braves. 
"It was an argument between two adults, and one of them settled it the wrong way," Hargrove said. "It wasn't an attack on authority." 
Ham irez, batting .43 5 with five homers and 15 RB!s this spring, is being tried in the eleanup spot with !>avid .Justice third and .lim Thome l'ifth. 
lie has appeared focused and com­milled to improving his defense and baSIHunning, only to derail his progress with the clubhouse incident. 
"lie has been gn~at," Hart said. "He has made great strides this sp,ring. I think as the year goes on, he's going to assume a greater ability to play consistently." 

Mets 7, Astros 2 
At Port St. Lucie, Fla., Butch Huskey homered twice. doubled and drove in five runs to lead New York over Houston. 
Bernard Gilkey also homered for the Mets. Bill Pulsipher pitched four scoreless innings for a save. 
Hangers 7, Pirates :~ 
At Bradenton, Fla., Tom Goodwin's two-run single led to a four-run sec­ond inning against struggling Jason Schmidt as Texas defeated Pittsburgh. 
Rick Helling pitched three-hit hall for six innings as Texas improved its major league-leading spring record to 15-6. 
Red Sox 3, Expos 1 
At Fort Myers, Fla., Derek Lowe filled in for injured starter Butch Henry and pitched five innings of one­hit ball as Boston beat Montreal. 
Lowe, who walked one and struck out three, made the start because Henry injured his hamstring while running the bases last week. 
Braves 10, Indians 0 
At Kissimmee, Fla., Andres Galarraga drove in five runs and Denny Neagle pitched five scoreless innings as Atlanta beat Cleveland. 
Galarraga hit a three-run double in the first, added a solo homer leading o!T the third and finished his 3-for-3 day with a run-scoring single in tlw. fourth. lie is 10-for-19 in his last seven games, with four homers and 11 RB!s. 
Neagle (3-0) allowed only two hits in his longest stint of the spring, extend­ing his shutout streak to 14 innings. 
Cleveland starter Melido Perez allowed three hits, three walks and four runs in two innings. His EllA climbed to 11.05. 
Phillies 3, Blue Jays 2 
At Dunedin, Fla., new Toronto closer Handy Myers gave up unearned three runs in the ninth inning and Philadelphia rallied to win. 
Blue .Jays starter Pat llentgen pitched seven shutout innings, allow­ing only two hits. 
Phillies pitcher Calvin Madura, Billy Brewer, Darrin Winston, Wayne Gomes and Yorkis Perez combined on a one-hitter. Ed Sprague homered in the seeond inning for Toronto's only hit. 
Philadelphia's Gary Bennett hit a two-out, two-run single that tied it and Billy McMillon followed with an RBI single. 
Athletics 6, Giants 0 
At Scottsdale, Ariz., HiCkey Henderson led off the game with a homer and stole his first base of the spring as Oakland beat San Francisco. 
Henderson, who holds the major league record with 72 leadoff homers, hit a shot over the left-field fence against Kirk Rueter. Ben Grieve added a solo homer in the fourth inning ofT Rueter. who allowed four runs in four innings. Kenny l{ogl~rs pitr,hed s1wen scoreless innings, allowing four sin­gles. 

Angels 9, Diamondbacks 0 

At Tucson, Ariz., Darin Erstad hit his first two spring training homers and drove in five runs, leading Anaheim over Arizona. 
Erstad hit a thnw-run homer that capped a five-run second inning otT loser Brian Anderson, who had given up only one earned run in his first 12 innings. Erstad hit a two-run homer in the fourth. 
Brewers 12, Mariners (ss) 7 

At Peoria, Ariz., .ll)rmny Burnitz and Bobby Hughes hit home runs and Milwaukee had 15 hits off four Seattll) pitchers. 
Burnitz got his third homer of the spring and Hughes was 3-for-3 with four RBis. · 
The Mariners got home runs from Alex Hodriguez and Edgar Martinnz among their 18 hits. 
Cubs 5, Mariners (ss) :~ 

At Mesa, Ariz., Manny Alexander drove in four runs as Chicago beat a Seattle split squad. 
Glenallen Hill hit a two-run homer in the fourth ofT Terry Mulholland to give Seattle a 2-0 lead. 
Tigers 5, Devil Hays 1, 5 innings 

At St. Petersburg, Fla., Brian lluntl'r d r o v e i n t h r e I) r u n s a n d De t r o i t defeated Tampa Bay in a ganw callnd after five innings IH~eause of rain. 
Read tomorrow's Observer for continued coverage of the NCAA Fencing Championships 
The Observer accepts classifleds every business day from 8 •.m. to j p.m. at the Notre Dame ofticr, 314 LaFortune and hom 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clJs· 
sifleds is 3p.m. All classifleds must be prepaid. The clurge is 3 cents per character per day. including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifleds for content without issuing refund,. 
Classifieds 

NOTICES  $7-$8/hr. Childcare needed for Spring (4/5-6/15): T,W, Th, 3:30-5:30 & summer (6/98­8/8/98: T, W,Th, F 9-2) for 6 &  FOR RENT  J1_:~~~~~~  •••• ATTENTION LESBIAN, GAY, BISEXUAL, AND QUES­TIONING STUDENTS ....  KABOOM!!!!!!!  
...Attention Sophomore  8 yr-old boys. Looking for cre­ APT.  New Buffalo, MI.  -9 week old kittens  Original student group will hold  Just a reminder  
Accounting Majors ...  ative, energetic, and experi­ Prof or Grad Student who  -Litterbox trained  support group meeting tonight  
Looking for a job for  enced individuals.  commutes between Chicago &  -Extremely playful  at 8:00. Call 0-line for details  Don't forget to honor Mother  
next school year?  Responsibilitiies include orga­ NO Non-smoker pref. No  -A good home is the only fee  236-9661.  Teresa's memory by signing up  
Position available at the  nizing and implementing edu­ pets.  1-800-265-1682.  Call : Grant-287-9027  TODAY for the Mother Teresa  
Morrissey Loan Fund.  cational activities, light house­ Service Week. This is NO's  
Call Deb at 1-6616 for  keeping and meal prep.  3 bdr home,2blks from campus  Hey -did you know...  AUTHENTIC  chance to remember Mother  
information.  References required. Contact  273-1566  KOREAN DINNER  Teresa and make a real differ­ 
Karen or Gregg at Baer­ We're open early, late, and  ence in the South Bend com­ 
!LOST & FOUND!  Barkley & Co. 273-9000 between 8-5, monday-friday  ALL SIZE HOMES CLOSE TO CAMPUS  weekends for your conve­nience!  DATE: Sunday, March 22 TIME: 5:30 p.m.  munity. It only takes a little of your ime and that time will go a  
232-2595  - THE COPY SHOP -­ LOCATION: Center for Social  long way. Do it for the good  
LOST: keys. on a joey joe key  LaFortune Student Center  Concerns  Mother.  
chain, call 273-9942  SUMMER EMPLOYMENT:  NICE 3-4 BEDROOM HOMES  Phone 631-COPY  CHARGE: $4  
ART EDUCATION ASSIS­ NORTH OF NO GOOD AREA  
LOST: one gold card-cannot  TANT  2773097  ADOPTION: Hugs, daisies and  'Dinner includes Korean bar­ look at all this junk food ...  
party without it! if found,  SNITE ART MUSEUM  babbling brooks in summer.  beque beef, noodle entree,  
please call 241-rumm  Assist Education Curator with  8 BEDROOM HOME 2773097  Snuggles, skisuits and a toasty  kimchi, fried rice and dessert  PJ looks like a herring  
summer youth art program  fireplace in winter. Love and  'Tickets will be available at the  
LOST: Black Case Logic CD  focusing on museum objects  FOR RENT: 2 BR/2 BATH  joy for your baby all year long.  LaFortune Info Desk beginning  Oh my my, Oh hell yes  
case. $50.00 reward upon  and related hands-on activities.  OAKHILL CONDO, AVAIL­ Happy, caring professional  March 16th  
return. Contact 4-3754.  June 2nd to July 31st, 1 0-20  ABLE AUG. 1ST. CALL OR  couple would love to provide a  • All are encouraged to attend  Back away from the portable  
hours per week. Fine Arts  LEAVE A MESSAGE  new born with love, joy and  the performance of actress  electric eels  
LOST-CAMERA IN A GRAY  major with exp. teaching and/or  (219)272-291 0.  security. Call Ed and Ellen at 1­ Lauren Thorn (Joy Luck Club)  
SUEDECASE-PENTEX SUPER PROGRAM PLUS -35MM WI FLASH -PLEASE  working with children preferred. (June 15 to July 31st, addition­al Work Study hours -if eligi­ FORSALE  J  800-484-7011 Pin #4523 I bet I get blamed for this  at 8 p.m. following the dinner  Shh, I'm studying for my Materials exam  
CALL 289-1324  ble-with National Youth Sports  But Aquaman, you can not  I feel like going to sleep now  
..  LOST: Texas baseball cap 1n  Program to make a total of 40 hours per week if desired,  Twin size bed. Perfect condi­tion. Only $45. Call 247-0668  Its quite easy when you think about it  marry a woman whithout gills, Your from two different  then waking up and studying  
Hesburgh center Feb. 26.  PLUS room and board included  or email  Wooorlds!!!  Thais when I have to forge  
Sentimental value. Jim @ 4­ June 23 to Aug. 1)  smontufa @darwin.cc.nd.edu.  ahead  
0608  CALL education curator  SABOR LATINO  STOMPER BOB RETURNS  
Sherrie Gauley, 631-4435,  1989 2 door Nissan Sentra  In only two months most of us  
WANTED  ASAP. App. deadline 4/06/98  CD player, AIC, Excellent con­dition, runs great.  Thursday Mar. 19 9pm-1am  The wait is over!! Jump blues masters STOMPER BOB  will not be here. unless we want to. Then those that  
$ 1800 o.b.o.  returns to the stage with NO's  choose to or must will be here.  
NO students to participate in 15  Advertising Sales Internships  273-6334  Salsa I Merengue all night!  newest superstars LETTER 8  and everyone else will be  
min. visual experiment for$.  University Directories is hiring  tonight at the IRISH CONNEC­ nowhere.  
No current Psych lntro stu­dents please. Call Prof.  students to sell yellow page advertising for the official cam­ TICKETS  Club Landing  TION. St. Patty's was fun, come back and see the club  ABCDE­ 
Gibson 7138.  pus telephone directory this  (on Lincolway, between  behind the hype. 10:30 show.  FGHIJKLMNOPORSTU­ 
summer. Commission based  Ironwood and Twyckenham)  VWXYZ  
SOCCER OFFICIALS NEED­ pay structure. Training pro­ For Sale  (coming soon:  STOMPER BOB RETURNS  
ED FOR SPRING SOCCER.  gram. Excellent sales & mar­ Brooks & Dunn 1st three rows  CD release party!)  WITH LETTER 8  Keep pushing, you're almost  
CALL JOHN @ RECSPORTS  keting experience. Call1-800­ Center State -$30  there. Another bit of this can  
1-6100.  743-5556 Ext. 143 or visit  272-7233  SABOR LATINO  Oh! I have wasted my life!  get you some of that.  
www. universitydirectories.com  

·---~----· 

Thursday, March 19, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 
• MEN's TENNIS 
Weekend tourney pits netters against top ranks 
By M. SHANNON RYAN If the Irish are successful pede, two of which were 7-0 Saint Mary's Editor against the Green Wave they sweeps, the Irish are not about will most likely go on to com­to stroll this weekend. 
The Notre Dame's men's t!m­pete against other high level "It's going to be a great com­nis team. recently bumped up teams in attendance. petition," said junior Brian to No. 21 ranking by the ITA, is Depending on their perfor­Patterson, playing No. 3 singles craving a hectic weekend. mance, Notre Dame may get to and No. 1 doubles. "We're real­
The l'irst round of the four­prove themselves against ly pumped for the weekend." day Blun Gray National Classic Harvard, Virginia The biggest threat of deflation in Montgomery. Alabama will Commonwealth, or No. 2 may come with Tulane's Robert 
begin today for the Irish against Illinois. Samuelsson. Ryan Sachire, now No. 25 Tulane. On a six game winning stam-9-2 at No. 1 singles and 22nd in 
The Notre Dame African Students' Association 
& 
The World Affairs Council of Michiana 
Proudly Present: 
"Sustainable Development in Emerging Economies" 
A Discussion with: 
Callisto Madavo 
Vice President, African Region, World Bank, and 
John Donaldson 
U.S. Coordinator, External Affairs, World Bank 

Tuesday, March 24 10:00 AM C I03 Hesburgh Center Co-sponsor: Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies http://www.nd.edu/-ndasa 
the nation, will have his hands full as he takes on the Swedish sensation. Samuelsson boasts a ranking of second in the nation for singles and 21st in doubles. 
Patterson and Jakub Pietrowski, slipping two slots in the polls to No. 7, will face the task of eliminating the interna­tional pair of Samuelsson and his Netherlands partner, fresh­man Ronald Kloppert. 
The Irish duo lately have gained the momentum to down the Green Wave combo, by win­ning five consecutive pairs matches. 
Notre Dame, 9-2 on the sea­son, will also need to rely on the dependable play of Danny Rothschild. The senior captain at No. 4 has proven a sure bet, remaining undefeated on the season at 11-0. 
The tournament has become a highlight for the Irish in their five years of participation, which is reasonable considering their SUCGeSS rate. 
Last year, the netters won three out of four matches and finished second in thn event. They defeated Alabama­Birmingham, VCU, and Illinois before losing to South Alabama on the final day of competition. 
The lrish squad is confident that they again deserve to occu­py the courts with the best teams in the nation. 
"I alwa.ys think we're going to win," Paltterson said. 





FREE 
One-20oz. 7 UP® or 

RETAILER: Seven Up Company will reimburse you the face value of this coupon plus 8¢ handling if you and the consumer have met the offer's tenms. Void if prohibited, taxed, restricted, trans­ferred, assigned or coupon is reproduced, gang cut or mint condition. Consumer pays deposit and taxes. Cc:sh value 1/20¢. Good in USA. Limit One Coupon Per Purchase. Do Not Double. RETAILER REDEEM BY MAILING TO: SEVEN UP COMPANY, 
P. D. BOX 870133, El PASO, 1X 88587-o133. ?UP, SEVEN UP and DIET 7 UP are registered trOOemm of Dr Peppor!Seven Up, Inc. 
© 1998 Dr Pepper/Seven Up, Inc. 
One-20oz. Diet 7 UP 

530523
Redeem this coupon at any 
!
participating retailer to experience uThe Crisp New Taste of 7 UP" 

!

····;:.1 
I·
I

. I 
78101 9(8100)0 53052 

~----------------------------------,--~-~-~ 
page 14 
LaValle 
continued from page 20 
LaVal!~ and his two younger brothers in a general sports program of olympic events. He immediately took to the fencing unit, and bngan taking lessons in the sport. 
The club recruited a premier Hussian coach, Igor Pleskun, to lead the advanced students in tlw local tournaments. but he also worked with the beginners of the club. whieh included LaValle. 
"I dedicated myself to fencing because I knew it would be 
•~asy to excel in if I remained focused. Heing coached by such a top coach also helped," LaValle commented. 
It wasn't long before LaValle represented the New York Athletic Club in local tourna· ments. I lis mastery of the sabre weapon soon led him to com· p1~te in .Junior Olympic quali­fiers for the NYAC. where the team has consistently been dominant in New York. llis arhi1werm~nts also IPd him to Vassil Etropolski, a Bulgarian who won the JIJH5 world cham­pion in sabn\ to train with. 
FPneing still in the NYAC, LaValli~ hPeamn nationally rec­ognizt~d after hn became the I 994 Division II National Champion. A year later. lie steppnd up to become the .Junior Olympie Champion, and cornpetPd in the U.S. Olympic festival. 
"That year, I was recognized by Sports Illustrated for my fencing in its Faces in the Crowd feature. It was surpris­ing to know that I was fencing well enough to be nationally known," stated LaValle. 
This recognition led Notre Dame to LaValle, where he has continued to fence, this time on the collegiate level. 
"It was a difficult transition to make in fencing for Notre Dame. Most of the tournaments are team-oriented, but the goal must be the same-to focus on the opponent on the strip. No matter what, to win you have to take it one step at a time," said LaValle. 
The same attitude has bred the same results for the sabre­squad captain. lie has fenced his way to being named a two­time All-American and one of the top fencers on the collegiate level. His recent three-peat as the Midwest Regional Champion has given LaValle a third trip to the NCAA Championships. 
Just as important for the Irish is his leadership roJe. As the captain of the squad, LaValln has helped freshman Andrzej Bednarski make a successful transition to the collegiatn level. ".Just like myself. the main goal for Bednarski is to remain focused on fencing each match, and not worrying about the tournament as a whole," said LaValle. 
The results have been the 
same for Bednarski, as he will 
fence alongside LaValle this 
weekend in the NCAA 

SUNDAY. MARCH 22 1:00-5:00 PM A workshop for couples in a serious relationship who want to explore choices and decisions for the future including the possibility of marriage 
TOPICS TO BE PRESENTED: Stages of relationship Steps in making healthy decisions Long-distance relationships 
THERE IS NO COST FOR THE PROGRAM, BUT ... PRE-REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED ... BY FRIDAY, MARCH 20 
Applications are available at either Campus Ministry Oftke: Badin Hall or Library Concourse 
uestions? Call 631-5242 A'ik for John, S Ivia or Chris 
Championship. 
Head coach Yves Auriol knows how valuable LaValle is to the team. 
"Luke shows a lot of team leadership and there is no doubt he is the best sabre fencer we have," he said. 
After Notre Dame, LaValle hopes to con­tinue fencing competitively, already plan­ning to train for the 2000 or at least the 

The Observer/John Daily
2004 Olympic 
Luke LaValle and the rest of the Irish fencers are confident they have the mental reach to
games. But 
defeat defending champion Penn State in the NCAAs. 
LaValle still has a number of duels to dominate in for the same outlook that has got him Irish before that. 
this far. LaValle's current focus is this "I'm going into !the weekend's NCAA 
Championships] worrying about Championships. He will begin it one step at a time, one duel competition on Friday with the at a time," stated LaValle. 

Arter all, bdore you can eap­ture the king in a game of chess, you have to have already taken the rest of your oppo­nent's pieces, one step at a time. 

Tell mom most of what you're up to. 
1-800-COLLECT ® 


Thursday, March 19, 1998 
page 15 
.....

Lacrosse 
Save the Earth. Please recycle The Obser,ver. 

CENTER FOR 
esc Where~s the PartY?. 
~ 
~ 
The Center for Social Concerns Presents.... A 15th Anniversary Bash in your honor 
SaturdaY~ March 21 st 
9:30 PM to 1:30 AM 
EverYthing is free! 
D.J. and Food are Provided 

continued from page 20 
Murray. Marshall registered 7 saves and Murray picked up 5. 
"We didn't capitalize as much we wanted to," Callahan said. 
While the score at halftime remained somewhat close at 5-2, that is as close as Notre Dame would come. 
As far as scoring goes, the second half proved disastrous for the Irish. For seventeen minutes the team was held scoreless and Notre Dame watched as the score went to 11-2. 
"We played a good game and we played hard," junior Stephanie Fox said. "We kept with the pace. They were a ehallenge for us. The score really did not represent how we played." 
Notre Dame spent the majority of the second half in Colgate's end of the field but some bright spots came in the sceond half. especially from the play of Callahan and Calabn1se. 
Calabrese initiated an offen­siV!l opportunity for the Irish with a quick check and Callahan collected the loose ball. Callahan patiently waited for an opening and found a cutting Doyle who drilled a shot into the net. Doyle's goal eamc too late in the contest, as the Irish found themselves down 11-3. 
"I worked hard on defense." 
The Observer/Jeff Hsu 

One of the team's leading scorers last season, junior Stephanie Fox hopes to assist the Irish upfield this Sunday against Vanderbilt. 
Calabrese said. "I created goes to 3-1. The Irish have some turnovers with good some time to recuperate, their checks but I still have lots to next game coming on Sunday improve on." against Vanderbilt. Notre 
With the win, the Red Dame hungers for revenge Raiders improve to 2-1 on the after losing to Vanderbilt last season. Notre Dame's record year, 20-13. 
page 16  The Observer • SPORTS--------------------­ Thursday, March 19, 1998  
....  
• TRACK AND fiELD  

Freshman Shay takes to the long-distance in Morocco 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN 
Sporrs W rir"r 
Freshman Ryan Shay's talent and strong dedkation to running has kept him from missing a beat in the transition to collegiate cross-country and track. !lis efl'orl'i will pay oil' this Sunday as he represents the United States in the World Junior Men's Cross­Country Championships in Marrakesh, Morocco. 
Shay will be one of six men running for the U.S. in the race. lltl qualilitld for the team by fin­ishing fourth at the U.S. .Junior National Cross Country Championships in Portland, Ore., in December. About 300 runners from around the world will eom­(Wte in the R,OOO meter event. with the top live finishers from each country counting towar·ds team scoring. Along with the .Junior Men's Championships. the .Junior Women's, Senior Men's, and Stmior Women's Cross Country Championships will be lwld Sunday. 
"I kind of expected to make the tnam, but once I crossed the fin­ish linn and knnw that I made it, I was prPtty Pxr.itml," said Shay. "I was hoping one of my tt•am­matl's would makn it, too, though." 
.Junior Antonio Arce, senior .Jason Hexing, and graduate .John CoyiP an• all recent Notm Dame qualifiers for the mtlet. 
"The bt>st teams comptlling are probably Kenya and Ethiopia," said Notre Dame head cross country/track and field coach Joe l'iane. "The World Championships am a big deal in Europe and Africa, actually everywhere but the U.S." 
Focus on the event is lost in the 
U.S. due to cross country being run in the fall here as opposed to the winter. The U.S. also places a greater emphasis on indoor track, which interferes with the meet, than other countries do. 
Shay, who has been training with Hexing at a goal distance of 10,000 meters, said, ''I'd like to be among the top 30 finishers. I'm looking forward to racing and representing the U.S. as well as I can, and meeting the guys on the Senior Men's Team, who are Olympians." 
"Hyan is very unique," said Hexing. "He's mentally one of the toughest runners that I've ever run with. lie's an incredible com­petitor whenever we're doing workouts and races. Whenever we're running hard, he seems to 

The Irish Connection 
?141te~4~~ 
Proudly 
Presents 
Thursday March 19 (Tonightl) The return ofJump Blues Masters 10:30 Show 

Appearing LIVE with new superstars 

525 N. Hill St. South Bend 

always be the one who's pushing the paw;, He's always looking to do more. 
Shay has been running since the fifth grade, carrying on a strong family tradition in the sport. His older brother, Joseph, ran for Lubbock Christian University after winning two high school state championships in cross country; his older sister, Arnie, runs for Adams State; and his dad, Joe, coached his high school team. 
Ryan had an accomplished pre-collegiate career at Central Lake High School in Central Lake, Michigan, despite the fact that his school was so small. with only 27 students in his graduat­ing class, that it often did not have enough runners to field an entire <Toss country team. Shay overcame this obstacle, winning a record four cross country state championships in Michigan, in addition to three state track titles each in the 1,600 and 3,200 meters and one in the 800 meters. He never lost a high school cross country race after his third meet freshman year. 
"I think the major difference about running at Notre Dame is that I actually have teammates to train with now," said Shay. 
Shay's success carried over beyond high school competition, as he won USA Track and Field championships in the 3,000 and 5,000 meters, as well as AAU national titles in the 1 ,500 and 3,000 meter runs. He was also an alternate for the 1997 Pan Am Games. 
Immediately after his arrival at Notre Dame, Shay began to have a major impact on the cross country team. lie won his first collegiate race at the Scarlet and Gray Invitational, followed by a victory in the National Catholic lnv. Throughout the season, he was one of the top runners for the Fighting Irish, who won a first-ever Big East title and quali­fied for the NCAA champi­onships. 
"He's extremely dedicated and very focused. He's also become very coachable," said Piane. "He used to be very quiet, but now he's become a quiet leader. The kids recognize his dedication and realize his potential." 
Shay did not compete in the indoor track season for Notre Dame because of a slight injury and the upcoming World Cross Country Championships. However, he did run unattached in several meets and is looking now," said Shay. ''I'm going to go as far as I can with running, maybe the Olympics someday. Hopefully I'm on the right path for that. That's probably my eventual goal, and maybe to forward to the outdoor track sea­son. 

"I have a goal of making it to the NCAA Championships in the 5,000 and the 10,000 meters. That's my ultimate goal right make a profession out of it." 

If his past ar.hievements are any indication, with continued dedication and focus, Shay may someday be found on the victory stand at the Olympics. 
-PLEASE JOIN US FOR A PRESENTATION 
DIVERSITY ON COLLEGE CAMPUSES: A PLURALISTIC APPROACH 
NOTABLE AUTHOR. EDUCATOR. AND DIVERSITY FACILITATOR ANDY EVANS TAKES A .. REALISTIC...LIGHT-HEARTED.. LOOK AT THE ISSUES AND CHALLENGES OF PRACTICING INCLUSIVITY. AND OFFERS DIVERSITY­RELATED BEST PRACTICES AT OTHER COLLEGE CAMPUSES ACROSS AMERICA. 
r~ ................--.... ~ .........................................................,. ...':'':":"'·......"' .. o:-.............~ ..'!" ..::"~~--~"'t'"'!'!'~~~':!'~"'.~ .. ,...~~~r.!"''!''l:!:7!"'J!~~,... .. "' .................................,,.,<t':""'""'"'.................................1 
. 
!WHEN:  :;~,MONDAY. MARCH 23, 1998  '".,  .  j  
j;.IME:  ·\~\~~:00 P.M.  l  
L.'  : .'  
[WHERE:  THE HESBURGH CENTER FOR INTERNATIONAL  l  
~fii!\' '  STUDIES\AUDITORIUM  \  

l ______ ---~----" _______ ;..:.,:.;;,;;;..__.;.......-..----------..:...:.-"'.:...--'-----"""'-... _...._...._------~ ------------......--~--~---------------------·--_____________ j 
-REFRESHMENTS AND THE OPPORTUNITY FOR FURTHER­CONVERSATION WILL IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW 
SPONSORED BY THE COLLEGE OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION DIVERSITY PROGRAM 
ALUMNI HALL IRISH WAKE '98 
ofALLCU!pu
.p~G l S,e~ "'~ <}4 



~---~ ~-------------------­
Thursday, March 19, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS 
• WOMEN'S GOLF 
.. King swings top games at Snowbird Classic 
By GENE BRTALIK 
Sporrs Writer 
Last weekend at the Snowbird Intercollegiate Classic Katie King continued to rewrite the Notre Dame golf record books. 
King's 72 in the second round was the one of tlw best performances by anyone in the tourna­ment, and coupled with her 78 on the first day, helped her achieve a fourth place finish two strokes off of first place. This finish marks her second straight top five finish. 
The team, after a record setting day their last time out on the links, struggled the first day and finished with an eighth place finish out of 20 teams. 
Notre Oame's first day struggles mainly dealt with the weather. A<> many of those who visited Florida for Spring break know, the weather was not the typical spring like condition. The team faced 40 degree temperatures and prevailing winds. These factors resulted in the team shoot­ing a 326 and stuck them in ninth place 19 strokes behind leader and eventual winner Purdue. 
After adjusting to the conditions the team cut 13 strokes off of its previous round, and it helped the move into eighth place ahead o( James Madison and one stroke behind Rollins College. 
King's 72 give her the three top rounds in Notre Dame history, and her combined score of 150 for the tournament is second only to the 149 that she carded at the recent Midwest Classic. 
-Her season stroke average of 79.94 is set to best her own Notre Dame record of 80.17. King's current career average of81.68 is two strokes ahead of Kelly Phares' record holding career average. 
King struggled through the early part of this year but since then she has rolled through com­petitions. 
''We [Katie and I] realized that her grip was too tight and thatshe was shanking and hooking shots," coach Ross Smith said. "We worked on the grip and adjusted it so that she could play her best.H 
The Irish now play in three very important tournaments in the upcoming weeks. 
They arc currently ranked 11th in the district and strong performances in the upcoming con­tests could vault them up to either third or fourth and possibly a trip to the NCAA tourna­ment. 


Fencers 
continued from page 20 
that the Irish are expecting. 
Once again, the Irish focus is not on defeat, but rather a win­ning mentality. "If we worry about those big bouts ·that we might lose, we'll lose the lower bouts that we must win," said Walsh. 
Key for the Irish's hope lies with women's epee. In order to upstage the Nittany Lions, the squad will look for sophomore Magda Krol to repeat as the epee champion. 
She will fence alongside junior Nicole Mustilli, who will fence in the championships for the first time. Coming off a respective first and second­place finish at the Midwest championships, Krol and Mustilli hope to carry that momentum into this weekend. 
On the men's side of the epee event, the senior tandem of Carl Jackson and captain Brian Stone will dual for the Irish. Both fenced last year, with Jackson placing 19th and Stone 13th. Stone also goes into this weekend with the 1998 Midwest Championship under his belt. 
Collliing in as the three-time Midwest Champion, junior Luke LaValle will lead the Irish's sabre attack. His advice to freshman Andrzej Bednarski, who will also fence sabre, is the same rule that the rest olf the team is following: "We're worrying about it one step at a time. We have to remain focused. 
"Last Year, we got caught up too much in the competition," she said. "This year. we're worrying about our own fenc­ing, and because of it, our intensity is up." 
"The field has a lot of great fencers. It makes it easy to stay intense," said senior John Tejada., who rounds out the ten Irish fencers and will compete in foil. "As a senior, this is my last shot, and I'm sure that no other fencer wants it more than I do. 
"This is why I came to Notre Dame. to represent us in the championships. Now is the time to do it," Tejada said. 
Notre Dame's first ever fenc­ing NCAA Championship came in 1977 when the Irish defeat­ed NYU, also at home. The Irish hope that with the mental edge and the home field advan­tage, this will be the time to do it again. 
• SPORTS BRIEFS 
NI>"SMC Gymnastics Club-The Qover·Classic Home Meet is onSaturday, March 21, at 4:00p.m. It will take place at Gymnastics Michiana, on Home Street across from the United Limo Office. 
Drop-In Volleyball -RecSports will be sponsoring Drop-In Volleyball every Wednesday night for the rest of the semester. Play will be from 8 to 11 p.m. in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. Open to all Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. 
Modern Dance-RecSports will be sponsoring a Modern Dance cla~sthat will meet Sundays from 3 to 4:30 p.m. and Wednesdays from 8 to 9 p.m. in Activity Room 2 of the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. There will be an information meeting on Wednesday, March 18 at 8 p.m. at the RSRC. You must register in advance for the .class and sign-ups begin Thursday, March 19, at 8 p.m. at RecSports. The fee is $20 and no experience is necessary. The class is open to all Notre Dame students, :faculty and staff. 
• 


/l~ame :J"encing ~CA A Championships 
~ Thursday-Stmday 
\. All Day 
•I

& St. 1\lary's Angela Athletic },acilfty 
a :lsJ Lacrosse 

~ Men's Lacrosse vs. Rutgers Saturday 1:00pm 
& 
Women's Lacrosse vs. ,Vanderbilt Sunday 1:00pm Weather Permitting -Moose Krause Rain -Loftus 

-~.-~­
Thursday, March 19, I 998 

page 18 The Observer • SPORTS 
,,
.
.~JCKEY 

Irish ice CCHA All-American and All-Rookie honors 

"America's Greatest Appalachian Artist" 
}. Whitaker 
Sperial to The Observer 
ANN AHBOH. Mkh. 
Seven Notrn l>alllll hockey players have eombinPd for 10 poslsnason Central Collngiate llockPy Association awards, lnd by rrnshman dPfPnsnnHLn Mark Eaton and sPnior eenl!~r StPve NobiP. 
htlon was named to the six­playPr all-rookie lNtm and is considPrnd a lnading candidate for CCII/\ rookie of the year, to Ill' annouiH'Pd at tlw CCI lA ban­quPt on March IIJ. Eaton also was lllle or four Irish players to recnive votes for the t\11-CCIIA tPam. joining Ohio State goal­tender Jpff Maund and Miehigan defenseman Mike Van Hyn as the only freshmen to rPeeive aii-CCIIA votes. 
Noble was named to the six­player CCIIA All-Academic tPam for the SflCOIHI eonsecutive season, after boostng his cumu­lative grade-point average to 3.952. 
Four Notre Dame players reeeived votes for the AII-CCIIA tnam. tied with Lake Superior for fourth-most in the CCII;\ behind Michigan, Michigan Statn and Ohio State (five each). Nnarly half (15) of the 32 play­ers receiving ali-CCIIA votes were seniors. with Notre Dame and OSU set to return the most votn-gntters (four each). 
FiVIl Notnl Damn players rncnived eonsidnration for the CCI lA t\11-AcadPmk team. tind with Ferris Statn for second in e CCI lA behind Bowling Green's seven (MSU was the only other school with more than three). In addition to Noble, three Irish playnrs were nanwd to the hon­orahln mention All-Academic team. giving tlw Irish the most play1)rs (4) on the t\11-Academk and honorable mention AII­Aeadmnic teams. ahead of FSU, MSU and OSU (who had three nach). 
Joining Eaton on the AII­CCII;\ honorable mention list were junior left wing Aniket DhadphalP. (Marquette, Mich.). junior dnfenseman Benoit Cotnoir (Houyn-Noranda, Que.) and sophomore eenter Ben Simon (ShakBr Heights, Ohio). 
The Irish players receiving 

CCHA ALL-ROOKIE TEAM: 
Mark 

CCHA ALL-AMERICAN: 
Steve Noble··· ..... 
Central Collegiate Hockey Association Awards 


on the 1997-98 Irish squad,SPECIAL MENTION: highlighted by a pair of game­
CCHA All-Academic honorable mention were Dhadphale, senior center Lyle Andrusiak, and junior goaltender Forrest Karr. Cotnoir received All­Academic special mention. 
Eaton's 29 points tied with Cotnoir for third among all CCIIA defensemen, behind Miami senior Dan Boyle (14G­2(,A) and Fnrris State senior Brett Colborne (7G-30A). Eaton tied for fourth on the Irish scor­ing list, highlighted by a team­best 18 points on the road­inducting a pair of first goals in last week's playoff series at Miehigan. lie ranked second on the team in plus-minus (+13) and power-play goals (7) while totaling just 16 penalties in 41 games. Eaton's 12 goals are the 
winning goals and a four-point
Benoit 
game versus Perris State. Karr carries a 3.77 cumulative GPA Noble has totaled 31 A's, as an accounting and eomputnr 
three A-'s and one B+ in his 

first seven semesters as a finance major at Notre Dame, including four perfect 4.0 semesters. lie ranked seventh on the 1997-98 Irish squad with a career-best 25 points (8G-7A) while totaling just nine penal­ties. Noble appeared in the final 75 games of his career and 148 of 149 overall, becoming just the fifth Irish player to appear in 148-plus games and the third to log 140-plus while missing no games or one game. Noble joined MSU's Tyler llarlton and Western Michigan's Jeff Hucinski as repeat selections to the All-Academic team. 
Dhadphale netted his 25th goal of the season in the final 
KELLOGG 
INSTITUTE 
TODAY, March 19 
Annual Distinguished Lecture on Democracy and Development 
James C. Scott, Yale University 
"Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to Improve the Human Condition Have Failed" 
4:15p.m. 
Hesburgh Center Auditorium 
applications major, including n :~.92 in tlw 1997 fall snmnster. lie went (1-3-1 this season while ranking nighth in thn CCII;\ with a 2.HH goals-against avg., plus an .H75 savn pet. Cotnoir carries a :t 15 eumulativn CPA as an economies major, indud­ing a 3.07 in the 1 91J7 fall smnestnr. JIn is tind with Eaton as the third -In ad ing scon•r among CCII;\ dnfnnsPnH•n, with 29 points (1 0(;-ll);\) whi]P his 19 pow1~r-play points (4(;-15;\) rank1~d third among all CCII;\ playnrs. bnhind forwards Muckalt of Michigan (27) and Sean Berens of MSU (2:~). 

To bn eligibiP for CCIIA t\11­Aeademie Team <'.onsideration, a player must be at least a sophomore and have a 3.00 GPA on a 4.0 scale. The all-aea­demic toam is selected tho fac­ulty athlntie rPprnsentatives of the 11 mPmb1~r institutions, considering both academic and athletie achiovmnent. Tlw play­ers reeoiving the top six vote totals arn honored as first-tmuu members, with all others receiving votes narning honor­able mention recognition. Anyone nominated reeeiv11s special mention honors. 
• 
Christmas in April Benefit Run 
N\ 'Proc.udfl to ~enefit tln1~11\)~ ~In ~~\ 
Sponsored By 
..e~~ 

seventh-most ever by an Irish defenseman and most sinc11. 1 9H6. lie helped the Irish set school records for team goal­against average (2.74) and save pet. (.899) while playing a key role in the best Irish season penalty-killing pet. (.843) since 1975. 

HONORABLE MENTION· 
lyle An Aniket Forrest 
game of the season at Michigan, giving him the third-most goals in the CCI lA this season and the most at Notre Dame since 1990. He finished second on the tnam with 35 points, including 12 power-play goals-second-most at Notre Dame in the 1990s and third-most in the nation this season. lie scored tlHl first goal of the game a team-best six times this season. Dhadphale carries a :~.34 cumulative CPA as a finance major, induding a 
3.47 in the 1997 fall semester. Simon finishlld tlw season with a team-best 37 points (l)G-2HA), tied for 13th on the CCII;\ scor­ing charts. lie registered a point in 27 of the 37 games he played while sharing for the team lead in shorthanded goals 
(3). 
Andrusiak carries a 3.54 cumulative GPA as a business management information sys­tems major, including a :~.5H in the 1997 fall semester. llis 24 points (8G-16Al ranked eighth 


Sat. March 21st 'SC Multi-Purpose Room, 

4-5 pm 
Tom Whitaker will be sharing his entertaining musical talents, including guitar and mandolin, through his original composi­tion. This afternoon will be a great opportunity for students to experience the culture ofAppalachia . 

Thursday, March 19, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 19 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
DAN SULLIVAN 
SCOTT ADAMS


E':>TII'\ATED THE. HOURS IT WOULD TAKE TO DO AN EX.CELLENT J"Ol3 ON 
ALL THE PROJ"ECTS YOU'VE A55I.GNE.O. 
CROSSWORD 
0"' 
0 
-' 
0 
"' 
"" 
"' 
"' 
~ 
... 
:> 
0 
"' 

Note: The answer to 53-Across contains a hint to entering the answers at 20-, 23-, 38-, 48-and 53-Across itself. 
ACROSS 28 Prepare to share 58 Staffers 
1 Like The 32 Circumference Citadel, now 33 Sheik's peer 5 The Constitution, 34 March V.I.P. 
e.g. 35 N,O, e.g. 
9 Wing it 38 What a "choosy 
14 Fit mother" might 
15 Place for a pig pack for lunch 
16 Metier 42 Ninny 
11 With 35-Down, 43 Compuserve 
a birth service announcement 44 Wit Bombeck 18 Place to hold a 45 Winter Palace banquet roast? residents 19 Like some 46 Put on ice diseases 48 Unsavory MTV 
20 Heavy-duty cartoon duo kitchen 52 Chevy rival implement 53 Familiar 
22 Rebound five-word phrase 
2360's sitcom that that means had a whistled "Excuses are intra, with "The" unacceptable!" 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
TH ~T WOULD BE FIFTY ~OURS A DA~. 50 I 
RECALCULATED FOR 
"AOI:QUA.TE'' RESULTS. THAT WOULD ~E. FORTY ~OURS I'E.R DA'<. 
) 

WELL, TO 1"\A\\E A LONG STORY 51-\0RT 1 LET'S SKIP DOWN TO "COI"\PLETE FIDUCIARY M lSCONDUCT. " 

60 Abominable 
Snowman &2 Turnoff &3 Reinstates 64 Dark __ 
65 Southwestern sight 66 Elliptical 67 Crawl 68 Black 
DOWN 1 Smart 
2 Swearword 3 Otherwise 4 Sugar 
substitute? 5 Mooch 6 Remain in an 
uncertain state 7 "Crusade in Europe" author, 
familiarly a Place for a pig 9 Recreational 
four-wheeler, for short 


27 Billboard listings 46 nie way and the 54 This might be in 
28 -vu 29 Troublemakers 30 Struggles 31 Stash for cash, 
briefly 34 Maze word 35 See 17 -Across 
36 Tiptop 37 Roe source 39 40's theater 
director James 40 Thurman et al. 41 Cause of a fly's 
demise 45 Idiot boxes 

path for the long haul 47 They might be 55 Farm team 
zapped 56 Put on the line 48 Crow 57 Corset part 49 Type of type 59 Mariner's dir. 50 Milk snake 60 Deviation at sea 51 Keypad key 61 Psychology I 
Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75ct per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7 -ACROSS. 
YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Aquarius: The early­morning aspects reinforce spiritual ideas and aims. Guard against pesky acci­dents in the home and about the grounds during the later afternoon. 
Pisces: Seesaw patterns during the morning can make for uncertainty regarding children, pets, neighbors, and in-laws. 
Aries: Painstaking efforts and attention to minor details will get you through a trying morning. Your health is well aspect­ed during the afternoon. 
Taurus: Planetary vibra­tions uphold health gains as well as support preven­tive-medicine routines during the entire day. There is good potential for early-morning and late­evening traveL 
Gemini: Today you're in the driver's seat where travel, health, shopping, and social matters are concerned. You can write your own ticket and carry loved ones along with your enthusiasms. 
Cancer: Ideal aspects govern health, travel, keeping on the go in your own community. A good sense of personal freedom is evident. 
Leo: The accent is on tasks that tend to increase your status and prestige. Distractions are pleasant at times. 
Virgo: More promising aspect:> are evident today, with good stimulation of employment matters, busi­ness transactions, budgets, interviews, and coopera­tion. 
Libra: Consider agree­ments reached today as possibly being only tempo­rary. There can be delays in long-distance travel. Employment matters improve during the morn­ing. 
Scorpio: The aspects support domestic improve­ments, attention to spots in your home where you have noticed signs of dete­rioration. This is an excel­lent day for dining out. 
Sag;ittarius: Avoid becoming lost in details and incidentals in which others can trap you. Your intuitive abilities are high­lighted throughout the day. 
Capricorn: Don't press for agreements, decisions, or opinions in business or financial matters this morning. Disagreements shoulld be controlled and not permitted to fester during the evening. 

L>Th~ C~nter forSocial Concems Invites you to eel· el)r~t~ Disabiliti~s Awa\eness Week and to. attend a hospitality luncheon sponsored by the LoganCenter on Tbu~~~ay, Marclt19 from 11:30 to 1:00 p.m. Corned B~ef andTrimmings will be served and the cost is $3~oo:''' 
:;r.J~b Search Orienta.tion for.J;uniors: This presen· tation is designed to give juniors an overview of the types ofactivitit:~s involved in prepariQg for the job search in their senior years as well as how Career and Flaeemeb.t ServiCes office can ~,ssist in the process. Presented by raul Reynolds, Associate Director, Career and Placement Services. Thursday, March 19, 1998 in room138rDe,Bartolo Hall from 4:00 to 5:00p.m. 
Self-Assessment Workshop for Arts & Letters: 
Masteryour career destiny! Identify personally signifi­¢~ntjob values and satisfactions; assess skills, strength~ arid personal qualities; set goals to identify yourJdeal job. Students wilfbe given the Strong Interest Inventory to assess inter;est. Three part work­shop ·Attendance to all is strongly encouraged. Limited space-sign up in adYance at Career and Placement Services. Presented by Olivia Williams. Assistant Director. Jointly sponsored by Care~r and Placement Services & The Colleg(~ of Arts & Letters. 
Natural Family Planning: Why it Succeeds: . A night of introductory information on Natural Family Planning will be· held in LaFortune Student Center 3rd floor .Foster Room. The program is open to the public, on Thursday, March 19, from 7-8:30 p.m. There is no charge but materials are available for $10. This is sponsored by Campus Ministry and the Natural Family Planning program ofSt Joseph Country, Inc. To regis­
t¢r.call237~7405. 
Seeing Like a State: How Certain Schemes to lmprove the Human Condition Have Failed: James C. Scott, from Yale University will speak on Thursday, Mar~h 19, at 4:15 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, Auditorium. 
Dealing with Gross Human Rights Violations of the.Past: The Case of Colombia: Gustavo Gallon, will speak on March 19, at 4:15p.m. in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
• 
11 Durable wood 12 Where Shoshone 
Falls falls 13 Not on deck 21 "The Spanish 
Tragedy" 
dramatist 
26 Alpine elevator 


The University of Notre Dame Student Union Board would like to inform you that 
AMISTAD 
Cushing Auditorium Thursday 10:30PM • Friday S:OOPM/1 0:30PM • Saturday S:OOPM/1 0:30PM 
,.. 

Two Dollar Admission will be playing in place of Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil due to Mr. Eastwood's reservations. 
___.______ 
-
SPORTS 
page 20 Thursday, March 19, 1998 
• FENCING 

Fencers duel for the NCAA Championship 
Junior captain Luke La Valle leads Irish, one step at a time 
By ANTHONY BIANCO A two-time All-American, he Spons Writ<r also finished fifth as a sopho­more in the NCAA Tlw sport of fencing is much Championship and fourth likP a dH~ss match. The oppo­plaee as a freshman. lie is a lwnts battlP each othnr in a three-time defending Midwest nwntal ganw that seeks to put Hegional Champion and holds thPmsPivPs on top with each a 138-14 collegiate fencing movP. Tl_w SPrious compt>titor rncord. lie has the 1995 Junior knows tlw goal of this game is Olympic under-17 national to duPI your opponent to the champion amd a 1995 U.S. dPath. Olympie Festival fencer. With a 
I(' fpncing is a chess match, list of accomplishments that tlwn junior sabrt~ squad rap­eontains these marks, its easy lain LukP l.aValln has con­to see why LaValle is the king stantly dwckmated his oppo­of the strip. lll'nts. Wlwn lw steps onto the LaValle first picked up the strip. lw dominatns. sword ten years ago in his 
"Out on tlw strip, everyone's hometown of New York. His an Plll'my. Its a nwntal chess father, a member of the New gamP I takP <liH' toueh at a York Athletic Club, enrolled limP to dPfPat my opponent." said LaValle. 
see LAVALLE I page 14 
The Observer/Kevin Dalum 

The Irish look to continue building on the team's successes by focusing on each bout this weekend. 
Irish begin championship tourney at home today 
By ANTHONY BIANCO strategy of the team going into tlw comrwtition. Sports Writer "W!!'n! trying to be rPiaxed and ealm," slw said. We need to focus, going point hy point and eon­
The edge the Irish fencers bring with them this centrating on each bout. Out nwntality will giw weekend to the NCAA Championship isn't only us thn win." on their weapons. The team knows that in order The women's foil squad will also SPnd captain to unseat three-time returning champion Penn Myriah Brown to compPI.ll. Finishing fifth in last State, they must have the mental advantage on season's tournament, the pair with try to unseat their side of the strip. reigning champion Yelena Kalkina of Ohio State. 
"Last year, we lost mentally to Penn State. We Thn Irish have the advantag11 in numbers know we could have won, we had the depth and going into the tournament. the physical dominance to do it," commented foil Notrn Damn was only one of thre<' teams to captain and NCAA Champion contender qualify 10 fnncnrs for the championships, with a Stephane Auriol. Auriol qualified for the tourna­school qualifying no mor<l than two l'enePrs in ment after winning the Midwest Championship each of the five events. The other two schools to in men's foil, and hopes to improve on last year's sent 10 fencers are Penn State and St. John's, 16th place finish in the tournament. who finished first and third, respnctively, last 
The advantage the Irish have been working on year around thn seeond-place Irish. gaining isn't with the weapon, but in their mind­Much of thn competition that held Notre Damn set. The key to winning the tournament is break­from winning the tournament last year remains, ing it down, match by match. and is only cou~ed with a new crop of freshmen
The Observer/John Daily 

Two-time runner up in the NCAA Tournament a strong supporting cast to bring the Irish the championship. in the women's foil, Sara Walsh explained the see FENCERS I page 17 Sabre team captain and two-time All-American Luke LaValle looks to 
• WOMEN's lACROSSE 

Lax takes first loss of season 

By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Sports EJiror 
Young talent seems to be the highlight of the women's lacrosse games. The freshmen composn the Irish's scoring threat. After a succflssful break, thn freshmen fell short 

-~ 
in tlwir hornP debut. ColgatP held Notre Dame to just six goals. as the Hed Haid11rs went on to win. 15-(J. 
Fr<!Shm,~n Lael 
O'Shaughrwssy, Maura Doyle, 
CourtnPy CalalHesP and 
Kathryn Perrella each ehalked up a goal. Senior captain Mara Grace and junior Kerry Callahan each added one. 
"We were pleased with our effort," Callahan said. "When we walked off the field. we knew that we played as best as we could. They just had sonw strond individuals." 
Colgate's Torrey Fazen prov1ld too much for the Irish to handle. Faznn's blazing spend and agility enabled her to lead the Hed Haiders with four goals. 

"We played really well," Calabrese said. "We worked hard, but they were a good team. Even though we lost I thought we were very success­ful." 
The solid play of Colgate's goalie, Hilary Meyer, enabled her team to win. She regis­tered 14 saves in her 60 min­utes of play. Notre Dame's goalkeeping duties were split between freshman Carrie Marshall and junior Beth 
see LACROSSE/ page 15 
liSfJ Women's Lacrosse 
VANDERBILT DUQUESNE 
atQavidsori.·".....-." 
atbuke 
at Ohio State.: ~ 
SYRACUSE 
at Connecticut 
GANNON 
at Columbia at Harvard 



~ 
vs. Purdue Fencing Saturday, 2:30 p.m. 
NCAA Championships 
Q) 
Freshman runs in international meet
at Angela Athletic Facility, vs. Rutgers 
4SIJ 'C • 
Saint Mary's College see page 16
~ 
Saturday, I p.m. 
Thursday through Saturday 
~ 
at Providence 
CIJ Tennis to serve big competition
Track~~' Saturday, 12 p.m. 
at Wabash College 
·~ see page 13
s"' ·-• 
at Toledo Saturday, TBA 
'f1w 
Saturday, 12 p.m. 
~ 






