' 
~
, 
l 

l 1 
Monday, January 19, 1998 • Vol. XXXI No. 72 
THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
Vanderbilt to establish divinity chair for Malloy 
By ANNE HOSINSKI Vanderbilt in 1975, stated that University community," said third term as president of of the executive committee of News Writer he is "honored and thrilled to Hough. "Given these consider­Notre Dame, Malloy has also the Business Higher Education be remembered in such a ations, no other name for the chaired the American Council Forum, the Bishops/Presidents 
Vanderbilt University way." chair was even considered by on Education, an umbrella Committee of the U.S. Catholic announced the establishment He said he had been aware the major donors." organization monitoring higher Conference, the Board of of the Rev. Edward Malloy of Vanderbilt's plans to estab­Several sources established education in America. Regents of the University of chair in Catholic studies in its lish a chair in Catholic studies, the chair, with gifts totaling He is a vice president and Portland and the Board of school of 
but was surprised to learn it $1.5 million. member of the council of the Trustees of the University of St. divinity. a would be named for him. The William K. Warren International Federation of Thomas. high honor Joseph Hough, dean of Foundation of Tulsa, Okla., Catholic Universities, as well as Hough anticipates that the rarely Vanderbilt University school of which is chaired by 1956 Notre being a member of the Indiana search for a professor to fill awarded to a divinity, believes that Malloy Dame alumnus William Academy and serving on the the chair will begin early in the living uni­was the best choice. Warren, Jr., recently complet­board of directors of the NCAA fall of 1998. versity presi­"Father Malloy is one of the ed the funding with gifts total­Foundation. "A high level of anticipation dent. most distinguished alumni of ing $476,000. Efforts will con­Malloy is currently serving a for the excitement that this 
M a II o y, the Vanderbilt divinity school, tinue at Vanderbilt to raise two-year term as chair of the new colleague will bring to our who received Malloy a person who is much loved additional funds to endow a Association of Governing Divinity school community a doctorate here and universally admired Catholic study program. Boards of Universities and [exists at Vanderbilt]," said in christian ethics from by the entire Vanderbilt In addition to serving his Colleges. He is also a member Hough. 
• NEWS ANAlYSIS 
Kaczynski's lawyers center case on incompetency claim 
SEAN VINCK to hang himself with his under­News Writer wear. Since this incident, Kaczynski's attorneys have tried to 
The trial of Unabomber suspect prove his mental incompetence. Theodore Kaczynski continually Professor Jimmy Gurule of the makes national headlines, as more Notre Dame Law School says that and more criminal trials capture the definition of legal incompe­
tence is "actually during the trial
audiences world­when the defendant is incapable of wide. understanding the proceedings 
Kaczynski, an against him and unable to assist in Illinois native, is his own defense." accused of killing A finding by a federal judge of or maiming the legal incompetence would halt any recipients of let­proceedings against a defendant. ter bombs, which "After a finding of legal incompe­were pro-L-...---'-----' tence, the defendant would be grammed to The given an indefinite period of psy­explode when Unabomber chol-ogical treatment until such opened. time as he would be able to stand 
The targets of trial," Gurule states. Kaczynski's attacks have been The finding of legal incompe­prominent figures in the worlds of tence in the Kaczynski trial is business and technology; the most predicated upon an evaluation by a notable victim was the president of court-appointed psychiatrist. United Airlines, who was allegedly Legal incompetence is not syn­killed by one of Kaczynski's bombs onymous with legal insanity; in the in 1980 in Lake Forest, Ill. case of mental incompetence, the 
Kaczynski is accused of commit­time period in question strictly ting these crimes in order to centers around the time of the achieve the dream outlined in his trial. political manifesto. In this docu­According to Gurule, Kacynski's ment, he rejects the use of technol­suicide attempt "does not prove ogy and articulates a vision of the incompetence, but serves as com­world in which mankind returns to pelling evidence." its natural origins. The report of the court-appoint­
S
The focus of the Unabomber trial ed psychiatrist in the Kaczynski has centered upon Kaczynski's trial is expected to be announced tudents enjoyed coffee and good music yesterday in the LaFortune Ballroom. Java and legal competence. The current dis­on Tuesday.Jazz was only one of a series of Winterfest activities sponsored by the Student Union 
cussion over Kaczynski's mental 
Board. 
state has stemmed from an alleged 
see KACZYNSKI I page 4
suicide attempt, in which he tried 


ND celebrates King's birthday with prayer service 
By CHRISTOPHER SHIPLEY entitled "Stories." The video the director of the Office of c...-;:;;:;:=:=:;:;:::;:::;;;;;;;;-::--=-------------------, News Writer will feature Notre Dame stu­Multicultural Student Affairs, dents sharing their own expe­said. "This is our step to 
Thn University of Notre riences on the impact of the mend and start the healing Damr. will honor the birthday legacy of King's dream. so we can expand this mes­of Martin Luther King, Jr. Rather than holding a series sage beyond our own com­with a prayer service held of events as in previous years, munity." tonight at 7 p.m. in the Chapel the Planning Committee The Celebration Planning 
of the Holy Cross, located decided to hold only one event Committee published an open between Stanford and Keenan for this years' celebration of letter to the Notre Dame Halls. the life of King. community in the December 
• Born in Atlanta, GA speech from steps of 
This service, sponsored by Iris Outlaw, a member of 10 issue of The Observer, 
on janurary 15, 1929 lincoln Memorial
the Dr. Martin Luther King the King Celebration stating their reasons for Celebration Planning Planning Committee, holding only one prayer ser­Committee, will be the focal explained the significance of vice rather than multiple 
• Founded Southern • Died April 4, 1969, 
point of a campuswide cele­holding only one event. activities throughout the 

Christian leadership after being shot at the 
bration of the national holi­"With the things that went week. 

Conference (SCLC) in lorraine Motel in
day. on last semester, we knew we "We as a committee, and The prayer service will had to do something to bring 

1957 Memphis, TN 
include a video presentation the people together," Outlaw, 
see KING I page 4 
..__---------------------------1 

page 2 
• INSIDE COLUMN 


California Dreaming 
If you are a smoker, you've probably alnmdy heard the news. 
The golden state of California passed legis­lature requiring all public bars, become smoke-free arnas. The law was passed some time ago; its implica­tions became active as of January I, this year. 
Non-smokNs every­where, fed up with their inability to choose whether or not their lungs be pol­luted and depleted in the Allison Koenig capacity of a public Saint Mary's News Editor place, rejoiced. 
The California law has the potential to be a landmark deeision because it sends a very direct and strident message to smokers and tobacco manufacturers: YOU ARE NO LONGEH WELCOME. 
The message via California legislature tells those same two groups that while tobacco sales and the cigarette in itself will not be deemed illegal, the use of the drug should no longer be socially condoned. 
This law gives the non-smoking group the power to demand the self-respect they have yearned for years. This law is, hopefully, only the beginning. The state of California is, hopefully, only the first of many to come to such fantastic conclusions. 
I've heard several smokers scoff, and cough, at the plausibility of this law. "If I can't smoke in a bar, I just wouldn't go to the bars anymore." 
Yeah right. Let's pretend for a moment, just one glorious moment, that Indiana lawmak­ers adopted this same legislation. All of you smokers cannot tell me that you would hon­estly ditch the entire soeial sphere at Notre Dame, the bar scene, so you could sit in the comfort of your dorm's 24 hour lounge, your residence hall room, or your apartment, and have a cigan~tte? 

You would rather continue building up a bodily reserve of tar and a potentially deadly addiction than go out and meet friends? 
I doubt it. 
What I don't doubt is the effectiveness of this law were it imposed in Indiana. Most reasonable. logical people are reluctant to stand outside in the middle of a South Bend winter just to have a few lousy drags off of a cancer causing agent. 
Then again. most reasonable, logical people have read enough headlines or heard enough reports about the dangers of cigarettes that they quit the habit or never started in the first place. 
Call me crazy, if you like. I don't know many people, smokers or non, who enjoy the stench bequeathed to their clothing after a trip to a local restaurant, bar, or shopping area where smokers were empowered to pol­lute the air as they please. 
I do not argue that the entire tobacco industry should be eliminated, nor do I wish to entirely crucify smokers for their decision to partake in tiHJ drug. 
I am simply thrilled that lawmakers have chosen to take steps to protect my beautiful pink lungs, even if they arc not yet protected by Indiana law. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
•  TODAY's STAFF  
News  Nate Wills  
Kristi Klitsch  Graphics  
Bill Uniowski  Tom Roland  
Christopher Shipley  Production  
Sports  Kathleen Lopez  
Betsy Baker  Lab Tech  
Bill Han  John Daily  
Viewpoint  Joe Stark  
Brandon Williams  
Accent  

The Ob.erver (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during cx.lm and vacation periods. The Observer is a member of rhc Associated Press. All reproduction rights arc rc5crved. 
The Observer • INSIDE Monday, January 19, 1998 

c~~~Putside the Dome 
'\.i ,. Compiled from U-Wire reports 
Penn State professor smokes a joint as a political statement 
STATE COLLEGE, Penn. 

To stand up for his personal free­doms and inform University students about the government, University chemistry professor Julian Heicklen sat in a chair at noon yesterday at University Gates and smoked a joint. 
Yet, he was not arrested. 
"As I understand it, we responded and we could not determine that a crime was being committed," said University Police services supervisor Dwight Smith. "He was not smoking marijuana when the officers arrived." 
There was a lack of evidence and University police felt Ileicklen was try­ing to make a political statement, Smith said. He said it wouldn't be in the community's best interest to arrest Heicklen. 
Saying he was tired of paying taxes for others who smoked marijuana and were arrested, Heicklen said he want­ed University students and the public to pay for him for a change. He also 
• OKLAHOMA UNIVERSITY 
OU frats making plans to go dry 
NORMAN, Okla 
Fraternities across America and at OU will bid farewell to their Animal House image by 2005 if the National Interfraternity Conference's plans are carried out. The party-hearty stereotype made popular by the 1978 movie and the death of an MIT fraternity pledge motivated the NIC to issue a nationwide call for alcohol-free fraternity facili­ties. Four national fraternities have already pledged to go substance-free by July 1, 2000. The four fraternities are Farmhouse, Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji), Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Nu. Johnathan Brant, executive vice-president for the NIC, said it is possible that as many as a dozen other nation­al fraternities may join the alcohol ban by 2000. All four fra­ternities now in the 2000 goal except Farmhouse are repre­sented at OU. Andy Longo, OU fraternity affairs advisor, said Phi Delta Theta will be starting up at OU later this semester. Beth Stathos, OU sorority affairs adviser, said all of OU's sororities are already alcohol-and drug-free. 
• UNIVERSITY OF CAliFORNIA-lOS ANGELES 
Students oppose ballot proposal 
LOS ANGELES, Calif. 
Like Proposition 187 and Proposition 209 before it, the Unz initiative, otherwise known as "English for the Children" ballot proposal, is on its way to becoming California's next political hot topic dealing with ethnicity and nationality. Written by Silicon Valley software entrepreneur Hon Unz, the initiative would put an end to bilingual educa­tion in California schools. Unz, along with anti-bilingual edu­cation lobby One Nation/One California, is campaigning to place the proposal on the June 1998 ballot. MEChA (Movimiento Estudiantil Chicana y Chicano de Aztlan) is cur­rently campaigning against the proposal. The group has col­lected over 700 signatures from UCLA students opposing the initiative. The petition was presented to Los Angeles Unified School District, who a week later voted to oppose the legisla­tion. "This issue is going to affect students, parents, teachers and school boards," said Lina Velasco, the high school out­reach coordinator of MEChA. 

Atlanta  46  39  Columbus  30  25  Los Angeles 59  52  
Aurora  48  29  Dallas  62  24  Miami  77  61  
Baltimore  35  27  Denver  46  27  New York  35  25  
Baton Rouge 56  45  Honolulu  80  65  Phoenix  71  53  
Chicago  25  16  Indianapolis 29  24  St. Louis  28  24  

rt ~y , +.,:=·.,:=· 
~ "'-''~'"'­
,,-,.-. . 

~ \> ••,/ • 
Q,~,~A.Q.Q(f 
Showers T-storms Rain Flu"ies Snow Ice Sunny VIa Associated Press Graph/CSNet 

Although he does not condone smoking marijuana, Heicklen said he does not see anything wrong with smoking it, as long as people whzo smoke marijuana do not infringe upon the rights of others. 
"I believe that it is immoral to arrest anyone for owning a vegetable," he said. 
If arrested, I Ieicklen said he would plead not guilty. lie said he did not fear arrest, even though he had not consulted specific legal representa­tion. 
"It's the price of civil disobedience," he said. ''I'm trying to get the anti­drug laws abolished." 
Although it was his first time experi­menting with marijuana, lleieklen said he didn't want to finish the entire joint because it would cause the policr to lose their evidence. 
"If I finish it, they'll lose it," he said. "I want this thing to go head on. I do not want to be released on a techni­cality." 
Jlcicklen said he will continue to express his beliefs until he is arrested. "We will make it a regular event," he said. 
Heicklen said he will return at noon Jan. 29 to the University Gates to con­tinue his protest. 

• SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high temperatures 
--~--­ --·········-·············~ /  H  L  
Mond~y  ~  28 14  
Tuesday  ~  31 23  
Wednesday~  33 27  
!  .  
<,  
Thursday  Q  33 24  
j  ·:· •:·  .  
F .d;  .~  33 24  

~ u 

Pt. Cloudy Cloudy 
• UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA 
Five former employees sue Regents 
TUCSON, Ariz. 

Five former UA College of Medicine employees have filed 
suit against the Arizona Board of Regents, alleging they 
were wrongly fired because they were unable to work 
after being exposed to formaldehyde. Kevin McHugh, 
Mary Gibson, Susan Greco, Gayle Sumida and David 
Weintraub filed the lawsuit in Pima County Superior Court · 
Dec. 8. The employees are seeking an unspecified amount 
of compensatory damages for lost income and emotional 
distress, said their attorney, Don Awerkamp. All the 
employees did computer work in the college and were tBr­
minated from their positions Dec. 31, 1996-more than 
three years after their initial contact with the chemical, 
Awerkamp said. The exposed employees were removed 
from their jobs under the Medical Hemoval Act, a law that 
relocates employees exposed to the gas or puts them on 
medical leave while doctors decide when they can return 
to work, Awerkamp said. 
• UNIVERSITY OF COlORADO-BOUlDER 
Police investigate student death 
BOULDEH, Colo. 

Boulder police believe the beating death of Susannah 
Chase may have been a random attack, according to 
Detective Commander John Eller. lie said police are looking 
at related incidents in the area to determine if there are any 
connections. Chase was last seen in Abo's Pizza about 1:30 
a.m. on Dec. 21, where she was reportedly involved in an argument with two male companions. Her body was found about two hours later in an alley near her home. She died the next night of multiple blunt-force injuries to her face and head, according to the Boulder County coroner. Although Eller said police have not completely ruled out the possibility of Chase's killer being someone she knew, they don't believe her killer was the man she argued with at Abo's that night. "This was an unprovoked attack," he said. "We don't think it was him." Currently, Boulder police are pulling all ease files that "have any resemblance" to Chase's beating and tak­ing a second look at them. 
• NATIONAl WEATHER 
The AccuWeather®forecast for noon, Monday, Jan. 19. 
Lines separate high temperature zones for the day. 

Monday, January 19, 1998 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
NCAA honors Notre Dame's summer program for youth 
Is there a leak?? 
By ALLISON KOENIG 
A<Sociatc News Editor 
The National Collegiate Athletic Association has cited Notrr, Dame's National Youth Sports Program as one of the 25 outstanding programs in thr, U.S. in 1997. 
Notre Dame, along with the other award-winning colleges and universities, will be hon­ored at the national NYSP workshop in Washington, D.C., held at the end of February. 
"One of my major goals was to be recognized [as an out­standing program!." said Kristen .Janowsky-Dales, the activities direr.tor of NYSP at Notn~ Dame. "This is an excit­ing ar.complishment." 
NYSP has operated for 30 summers and currently exists on 170 college campuses nationwide. The program is aimed at providing athletic and educational activities to more than 67,000 economical­ly disadvantaged young adults aged 10-16. 
The Notre Dame program was launched in 1992 and induded over 320 students from the Michiana area. The program operates daily for five weeks during the summer months. 
About 20 Notre Dame stu­dents act as coaches, leaders and facilitators for the pro­gram. Some of these students are varsity atheletes, although many are not. 
'ONE OF MY MAJOR GOALS WAS TO BE 
RECOGNIZED (AS AN OUT­
STANDING] PROGRAM. THIS 
IS AN EXCITING ACCOMPLISH­MENT • • 
KRISTEN }ANOWSKY-DALES 
"I think it's a great pro­gram," said Nicole Moyer, a Notre Dame sophomore who worked as a team leader dur­ing last year's session. "It's a great way for Michiana kids to spend their summer." 
The same group of partici­pants attends for the entire five weeks, which, according to Moyer, is a great benefit. 
"I know a lot of the kids became attar.hed to their team leaders, who they got to know really well. I also became attached to my kids," she stat­ed. 

Moyer added that the dynamics of that close rela­tionship enabled team leaders to "have a better impact on the kids." 
The team leaders, who 
were given free room and 
board on campus during the 
program, arrived for training 
one week before the pro­
gram's commencement. The 
leaders were instructed on 
various tasks ranging from 
how to interact with their 
groups to making sure that 
their groups ate properly. 
In selecting Notre Dame as one of the top 25 programs in the country, Edward Thiebe, national director for NYSP, listed three notable achieve­ments: a 47 percent partici­pant returnee rate, an immu­nization program and a high 
1evel of instruction in the edu­cational programming. 
Thiebe also highlighted the leadership of James Roemer, director of community rela­tions at Notre Dame and NYSP project administrator, as well as Janowsky-Dales. 

THE INDEPENDENT NEWSPAPER SERVING NOTRE DAME AND SAINT MARY'S 
is accepting applications for: 
1998-1999 
Editor-in-Chief 
Any undergraduate or graduate student at the University of Notre Dame or Saint Mary's College is encouraged to apply. The editor-in-chief is entirely responsible for the operation ofThe Observer. Applicants should have a strong interest in journalism and pos­sess solid management, public relations, and communications skills. Previous newspaper experience or a background in writing and editing, while helpful, are not required. 
Applicants should submit a resume andfive-page statement to Brad Prendergast by 5:00p.m., Friday, january 23, 1998. For additional information about the position or application process, con­tact Brad Prendergast at 631-4542, or stop by the office on the thirdfloor ofLaFortune. 
page 4 The Observer· CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 19, 1998 
King 
continued from page I 
please God, as a community feel that it is time to step back, to consider who we are, and to pray," the open letter states. 
"ll is only with serious soul searching and with earnest desire that any of our efforts to move our community and our world will succeed," it ocntinuns. 
Outlaw stressed the oppor­tunity that stuch~nts will have for personal introspection at tonight's prayer service. 
"We thought it would be important to personally chal­lenge ourselves and respect IHtch others' viewpoints. We ean join together to fight injustice by taking risks and movin.~ beyo~d our comfort zones. she said. 
In addition to this week's prayer service, organizations such as the National Association for the Advancement of Colored Pnople will provide several opportunities to learn about King's message of faith and justice. 
The NAACP will continue to sponsor the lecture series entitled "Haec, Ethnieity and Nation" as the semester pro­grnsses. 
"We would like a more campus wide concern and involvement with multicultur­al issues." said Kim Farrow, viee president of the Notre Dame chapter of the NAACP. 
"We hope that our pro­gramming will spark interest in the rest of the campus. We would like for everyone to get involved." 

Kaczynski 
continued from page I 
On the other hand, Gurule believes that "legal insanity involves the mental state of the defendant at the time of the crime, whether or not that same defendant suffered from a mental illness." 
Insanity is defined as the condition of the defendant at the time of the crime, and whether his 
comprehending the full gravity of the offense. 

The issue of legal insanity gained notoriety during the trial of Heagan assassin John llinckley. 
Because of significant miti­gating · circumstances, llincklcy's plea of insanity was accepted by the jury and he was sentenced to time in a mental institution where he still resides. 
This case holds precedence relevant to the Kaczynski trial. In the past months, Kaczynski has opposed his attorney's desire to enter a plea of insanity, maintaining that he is sane. 
The so-called Unabomber points to the writing of his manifesto as evidence of his mental stability. 
"It is possible for Kaczynski to refuse counsel, because it is within the realm of his con­stitutional rights," says Gurule. 
Kaczynski has indicated that, although he disagrees with his attorney's insanity plea, he will not serve as his own defense counsel. 
Insanity has differing degrees of severity. In weigh­ing the merits of a particular defense argument, the jury must weigh aggravating cir­cumstance and mitigating cir­cumstances in the crime. 
It is possible for a defendan­t's mental sanity to be called 
Fewer than 20 

mental disease 'JL'ACZVNSKI'S SUICIDE 
criminals reside on 
was serious 

ftArrEMPT DOES NOT PROVE 
fedora! death row. 
1enough to make This provides a
the defendant IMCOMPETENCE, BUT DOES SERVE 
contrast to Texas, in e a p a b I e of AS COMPELUNG EVIDENCE.' where over 100 
If sentenced to death, Kaczynski would join Timothy McVeigh and a number of other inmates on federal death row. 
"Kaczynski could be sen­tenced to death only after being convicted of first degree murder, and then by the unanimous assent of the jury to the death sentence during the penalty phase of the· trial -the judge alone could not sentence him to death, 
according to 
Gurule." 
criminals have been e~ecuted PROFESSOR JIMMY GURULE since the reinstate-
into question, but not deemed serious enough to remove full culpability for the actual crime. 
Next week, the judge in the Kaczynski case will deCide his legal competency. If he finds the defendant competent, it is still possible for him to pur­sue the insanity defense. Likewise, a finding of incom­petence does not rule out an insanity plea. 
Many factors will be taken into account by the judge when he makes his determi­nation -primarily the afore­mentioned suicide attempt and the psychiatric report of the court-appointed psychia­trist. 
Assuming that Kaczynski is found to be competent to stand trial on his 13-count indictment, he could still face the death penalty. 
ment of capital 
punishment. 
If Kaczynski's attorneys are allowed to proceed with an insanity defense, and if the jury finds Kaczynski not guilty by reason of insanity, he could not be put to death. 
As opposed to an imposed punishment, Kaczynski would Qe "treated and held in a mental health facility, where his mental diseases would be treated medically," Gurule 
·stated. 
With regard to Kaczynski's mental state, Gurule said, "I think that he is suffering from a mental illness. Though not severe enough to prove men­tal insanity, it is a mitiga~ing circumstance. 
"I expect his attorneys to argue vociferously for the mitigating circumstances when the jury weighs them against the aggravating cir­cumstances," he added. 
• CLARIFICATION 
ln Friday's edition of The Observer, a headline which read "Solomon: Cloning not a threat to nation's moral fiber" misinterpreted profes­sor David Solomon's stance on the cloning of human beings. 
Solomon said he views cloning as "a dangerous abuse of technology," but he later said that it does not raise any new moral prob­lems. Rather, he believes it revisits older issues that eam1l to light with tho advent of artificial insemination. 
The Observer regrets the confusion. 
It's a new semester and The Observer is looking for some students to cover campus news. 
If you're inter­ested, stop by the office or call Heather Cocks at 
1-5323. 

The Jacques Maritain Center presents 
Paul Mankowski, S.J. 
Father Mankowski is Professor Invitatus of Hebrew at the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome. A South Bend native, he entered the Society of Jesus in 1976 and was ordained a priest by Archbishop Daniel Pilarczyk of Cincinnati. He received his Bachelors in Classics and Philosophy from the University of Chicago, his Masters in the same from Oxford, his Masters of Divinity and Licentiate of Sacred Theology from the Weston Jesuit School of Theology in Massachusetts, and his Doctorate in Semitic Philology from Harvard. 
Father Mankowski will be discussing what the Old and New Testaments have to say about homosexual acts, both as i:m authority on the history of biblical language and as a priest who teaches at a pontifical institute in Rome. He hopes that his talk will contribute a needed perspective to the campus discussion about homosexuality. 
Tuesday, January 20 Hesburgh Library Lounge • 8:00 p.m. 



Monday, January 19, 1998 COMPILED FROM THE OBSERVER WIRE SERVICES page 5 
• \VORlD NEWS BRIEFS 
U.S. jail population rising 
WASJIINGTON 

Thn nation's prison and jail population increased nearly 6 percent last year, from an estimated 1.6 million to more than 1.7 mil­lion by June 30, the Justice Department said Sunday. That puts one in every 155 U.S. resi­dents in jail as of midyear 1997, according to a nnw report by the department's Bureau of Justice Statistics. However, the jump was slightly smaller than those recorded in earli­er years. From 1990 to 1997, the number increased an average of 6.5 percent annual­ly. The number of prisoners behind bars in state and fedora] institutions grew in 1997 by 55,198, or 4.7 percent. That was also less than the annual average increase, which has stood 7.7 percent since 1990. Despite small­er than usual increases at the state and fed­oral level. the figures for prisoners in local jails rose by more than the average. From .July 1 to June 30, inmates in local jails grew by 48,587, or 9.4 percent, "considerably more than the 4.9 percent average annual growth since 1990," the bureau said. The Sentencing Project, a private group that advoeates less imprisonment and more use of creative alternatives, noted that the total 
U.S. prison population is still on the rise even though crime rates have been sliding steadily since 1992. 
Egypt unveils world's oldest metal statue 
CAIRO, Egypt 

The oldest metal statue in the world, a 
4,300-year-old figure of an Egyptian pharaoh, 
was unveiled Saturday after completion of its 
rnstoration. The copper statue of Pepy I was 
found buried in a temple at Edfu in southern 
Egypt. where it was preserved by the constant 
rlimato of the surrounding sand and mud, 
said its rl\storer. Christian Eckmann of 
Roman-Germanic Museum in Mainz, 
Germany. The statuette, about 60 centimeters 
(2 feet) high, was restored together with a 
life-sized statue of Pepy as part of a 500,000 
Gorman mark ($274,000) project funded by 
the museum, the state of Rhineland­
Palatinate, and the German government. At 
tho unveiling ceremony in the Egyptian 
Museum, German Ambassador Wolf-Dietrich 
Schilling said his country had not forgotten 
killing of nine German tourists in an attack 
last September by a former mental asylum 
patient and his brother. "We need some 
time," Schilling told the Associated Press, "but 
we Germans, like many other peoples in the 
world, admire the culture (of Egypt) and 
therefore, at a convenient and proper time, 
we will come back." He said Germany had not 
told its citizens not to visit Egypt, but it was 
advising travelers of the museum incident and 
the Nov. 17 attack when six Muslim militant 
gunmen killed 58 tourists and four Egyptians 
at a Pharaonic temple outside the southern 
city of Luxor. 
S&P 500: 
Composite 
961.51 Volume:

+61.78 
+10.78 682,000,000 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE GAINERS 

t:UMl!tUS:t: IIC~fB 11il rll·ltSGE I GAiti I!BICE 
Cf.l.i'..l\RITY SYSTF.\<tS CI.RT 56.76 +1.312 3.625 ~EW YORK IIEAI.TII NYIIC 50.00 +0.075 2.250 CE SOFTWARF. CESII 41.94 +0.812 2.750 ENTERACTIVF. INC F.r<TR 39.29 +0.688 2.438 Tf.\.f.I'A.RTNF.R TRAYW 3&.77 +0.781 2.906 
BIGGEST PERCENTAGE LOSERS 

HOMECOM COMMS HCOM 4:1.06 ·.1.812 7.687 CIIF.ROKF.E INC CIIKE .!9.59 -6.062 9.250 ESCAI.<lS MElliCAI. ESMC 32.90 -3.12.1 6.375 1:-iTEI.I.IQUEST I~F IQST 30.!9 ·4.000 9.2.10 Ci\NOELA CORP CI.ZR 28.9.1 -1.37.1 :l.37S 

Cuba: Papal visit won't improve relations 
ASSOCJATED PRESS 
HAVANA 

Cuban officials arc almost eager to insist that Pope John Paul Il's journey to Cuba this week is not likely to improve 38 years of hostile relations with the United States. 
And they ridicule suggestions that the pontiffs five-day visit will produce changes on this socialist island. 
"Many people have tried to politicize the visit and use it against the revolu­tion," President Fidel Castro com­plained in a weekend television appearance. 
Carlos Fernandez de Cossin, head of the U.S. section of the Cuban Foreign Ministry, told The Associated Press that the pope's visit 'has nothing to do with the bilateral conflict that Cuba has with the United States." 
Some Cuban exiles in the United States -and even White House offi­cials -have suggested the pope, scheduled to arrive Wednesday, might somehow inspire changes in Cuba. 
"There could in fact be positive results in having the Holy Father in Cuba able to talk about the impor­tance the world attaches to human rights and to the need for relief of the suffering," White House spokesman Mike McCurry said last week. 
"And that discussion itself might empower those who believe there can be change and might even touch the heart of Fidel Castro," he said. 
During his television appearance, Castro himself said many people think "the pope is coming to Cuba to meet with that demon Castro in the last bastion of communism, and the hope is that this will be the end of the Cuban revolution." 
But he said that since the end of the Cold War, the pope himself has become a consistent critic of capitalist societies, casting John Paul as a man whose concerns about poverty and inequality often mirror those of social­ists. 
Cuban officials also note that the pope agrees with their criticism of the 
U.S. trade embargo against Cuba. of the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic government's Cuba policy has isolated 
Insisting he has nothing to fear from Council in New York, which includes a the United States, Fernandez de any papal statements, Castro said that number of major U.S. companies. Cossin was skeptical the trip would even Clinton was free to visit Cuba "to In Spain, cardinal who is affect U.S. public opinion, let alone
a to 
speak of capitalism, nco-liberalism, accompany the pope to Cuba said the policy.globalization." trip could prove to be the beginning of ''I'm not sure that just by this visit 
"We would not raise the least objec­Castro's demise. and this event that important impacttion.... Let him try to convince us!" 
"What happened with the Berlin is going to take place," he said. 
Still, some arc holding out hope that Wall and what happened in Poland Speaking on CBS' "Face the Nation" the papal visit will spawn growing could happen" in Cuba, the Spanish on Sunday, White House national contacts between Cuba and U.S. busi­daily ABC quoted Archbishop Ricard security adviser Sandy Berger did not ness and church groups. Maria Carles of Barcelona as saying. give a direct answer when asked if the 
"There could very well be a new era While John Paul's stopover could pope's visit would change U.S.-Cuba 
dawning," said John Kavulich II, head demonstrate to Americans that their relations. 
Analysts ... ptedlct ...... ·.i. ·~t\:econo.mic recovery 
AssOCIATED ~ • • Loss of services ~ring a .r(;lturn.:to th~ lllilitlu?' accede to the need for paring pared goverrhlle[lf, .· .. Si~/ilt\jJ(••: i dicfutol'sll.ip$ 6ft the COUntry's. down corporate workforces 
SEOUL • A decline in the g recent p~t. ·.· ..• . .· .. -aslong as Korea's big con­
There's an old Korean say­standardoflivingAN · · ·· <'t. Abating the sting of unem-glomerates bear their fair 
ing that ''the ground becomes In short, Koreans are b~iJlg plo~(:Jntsome"\Vhat is a gov" share. ofthe suffering as well. 
firm after it rains." asked to make soul~wrench· ernment promise to increase The conglomerates, often 
That sums up analysts' pre­ing changes ~ tl,ley ggJe Jobless p~yments .all(.{ the derisively called "octopuses," 
dictions for South Korea -to restructure their ted· Korean tradition of relatives are giant companies that 
that its fmancial crisis could economy and Pt$Y J~~cl(Jt . ~elpi}lg (lach other in hard poweredKorea's rise from a 
eventually produc(ll:t more record $57 billiOn bailout times; said Kirri Dae-il, labor nation of peasants to an eco­
solid economy and a from the .International ecom~mist with the Korean nomic powerhouse in just 
strengthened democracy. Monetary Fund. Develop-ment Institute. three decades. 
But first, of course, comes "I'm scare.d.~.sai4H~Jl · ..· "Fil:milyties here are quite They also helped bring 
the rain. And everything, they Hee-jin, a 50~year-old§eoul strong, but at the same time what was once the world's 
say, depends on how Koreans seamstress. ''This isn'tWhe~e the situation ~· bad/' he said. 11th largest economy to 
weather: l thoughtwe were heaqed. ,; Y · ~It's likely we will have some near-collapse with their prac­
• 
A million more unem­Analysts belieye K<lrea ~~ strik(:J~, but we have to wait tice of reckless over-expan­ployed. probably headed.for labor and see." sion, deceptive accounting 

• 
Thousands more corpo­. unrest, thoughthey.differ. of,l Layoffs fly inthe face ()f the practices and massive high­rate bankruptcies. how strong and howlong~ Korean tradition of lifetime risk hank loans won through 

• 
A 10 percent rise in con­lived it will be. None see th¢. empl?yment. But 1.fiUons have political collusion rather than sumer prices. kind of unrest that tnight $aid reluctantly that they'll financial merit. 




page 6 The Observer • NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 19, 1998 
Clinton plans to eliminate 
Utalf stUdents hold speak-out 
By SCOTT LEWIS. informed about the struggle in Epstein portrayed the eco­
funding for Perkins loans 
Daily Utah Chronicle (U. Utah) Chiapas. nomic situation in Chiapas as 
WILL HOLD ELECTIONS FOR THE 1998-1999 SCHOOL YEAR TUESDAY, JANUARY 20th AND 
The CCC allocates student activity fees to clubs, advises clubs, and rep­resents the interests of clubs in the Student Union and to the Administration. 
1~oday is tile last day to sign up. Contact Tony Siejring at 63 1-4()78 
There are 3 positions open on each of these divisions: 
•Academic 
•Athletic 

•Ethnic 
•Social Service 

•Special 
Interest. 


Election Times and Location by division are: 
i11ill®~@1 emW(i ~ CID ffil M®r.fW Zl® 
7pm  Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune  Academic Clubs  
8pm  Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune  Social Service Clubs  
9pm  Montgomery Theatre, LaFortune  Special Interest Clubs  
~YJ®~l1U@~~~~1 ~CIDllUM~~ ~iJ  
7pm  Foster Room, Lafortune  Athletic Clubs  
8pm  Foster Room, LaFortune  Ethnic Clubs  

By BRYAN DEAN Oklahoma Daily (U. Oklahoma) 
NOHMAN, Okla. 

After promising last week to inc:reasn financial aid for stu­dents, l'rnsident Clinton will pro­posn to eliminate federal capital contributions for Perkins loans, higher education organizations said Thursday. 
Lobbyists for organizations reprosenting collegns and uni­versities say the Office of ManagPment and Budget ree­ommeiuled no money for Perkins loans in the 1999 bud­get. 
Lobbyist reaction may 
havn pnrsuad­said. "Instead
'THEY HAVE THE 

ed the adminis­of spending it 
MONEY••• INSTEAD OF

tration to eut on weapons, tho federal SPENDING IT ON WEAPONS, they should contribution in spend it on
THEY SHOUID SPEND IT ON

half from this us. College ynar's $135 US. COLLEGE STUDENTS ARE students are million. the future of
THE FlJTURE OF THE

l'nrkins loans the nation. ar<~ given to NATION.' Clinton promised not
the most nendy 5ARAT KUNAPULI,students who to eliminate
FRESIIMAN, 0KLAIIOMA U.

apply fiJr feder­al aid. Undergraduate students arn eligible for up to $3,000 a year, and graduate) stu­dents arc nligibln for up to $5,000 a year in Perkins loans. Cuts eould eventually eliminate almost $7 billion in student aid nationwide. 
The higlwr education groups said they arc particularly angry because the U.S. Dnpartment of Education promised in Snptember to leave the program alone. 
Yonas Tesfai, chemistry fresh­man, said the cutback will force some students to put o!T college while they work at minimum wage jobs to pay for school. 
Matt Hamilton, director of the OU Financial Aid Department, said students opposed to the possible cuts should contact their representative and sena­tor. 
Sarat Kunapuli, chemical engineering and pre-med fresh­man, said Clinton is breaking campaign promises. 
''They have 
the money," 
Kunapuli 
education 
programs­
that is why I voted for him." 
The higher education groups said they backed Clinton's col­lege tax breaks for middle-class families on terms that need­based aid would not be sacri­ficed. The groups said increases in work-study programs should not come at the expense of the 788,000 yearly Perkins loan redpients. 
SALT lAKE CITY. Utah 
An estimated 80 people crowded into the Union Den. some listening from outside, to hear and participate in a speak-out against the·recent massacre of 45 people in southern Mexico. 
Four featured speakers were at the gathering, and a num• her of audience members took the opportunity to voiCe their comments and questions regarding Mexico today. 
The emotional event, spon­sored by Solidarity and Solidaridad Zapatista, reflect• ed on the U campus the international reaction to the events of Dec. 22, 1997, and the current political situation in Mexico. 
According to available infor­mation, 45 people were killed by paramilitary supporters of Mexico's ruling political party in the rural town of Acteal in the Mexican state of Chiapas. 
Military presence has been stepped up in the region, while 46 people have been arrested in connection with the attack, including the mayor of the town. Both the governor of Chiapas and Mexico's federal minister of the interior have been forced to resign. 
The speakers each focused on different issues related to the situation, past and present, in Mexico's ongoing struggle. 
Theresa Sanchez-Howes, a Mexican journalist living in Salt Lake who has covered the situation in Chia pas, empha· sized the need to keep 
She related a firsthand account of the poverty and desperation of the indigenous people in Chiapas. 
''They eat just beans and tor­tillas. That is alL That is all that they have," Sanchez­Howes said. 
In that region of Mexico, 45 people is a complete town, she pointed out. 
The tensions have been high in Chiapas since the Janu-ary 1994 uprising of the Zapatistas, or the EZLN, which is the Spanish acronym for the Zapatista Army for National Liberation. 
The group rose up on the first day of the implementation · of the North American Free Trade Agreement and immedi­ately gained international response to its fight against the exploitation of indigenous peo­ple in the Chiapas State. 
"We are working hard for a new and true democracy," Sanchez-Howe added. "We can say we have a democracy but that is not true.... The fight for democracy is painful." 
Ed Epstein, another speaker and U professor of political sci­ence, reported on the political situation in Chiapas. 
The recent massacre is char­acteristic of Mexico's recent climate, according to Epstein. 
"The fact that these types of incidents happen in isolated areas means that they are less likely to receive publicity," Epstein said. "What has hap­pened recently is exceptional because it has been brought to world attention." 
being extremely unequal. "Chiapas needs to be under­stood because it is an area of remarkable contrast between natural wealth and resources, whether these be coffee, petro­leum or hydroelectric," he said, "but it is, at tho same time, one of the poorest states in Mexico, with the widest degree of inequalities.'' 
Offering an analysis of the racial influence in Mexico, sociology professor Theresa Martinez reflected on many of her own experiences dealing with an indigmwus heritagt~ and a history of spqaking out against incidents similar to this one. 
She focused on the idea that it is important for the people to make decisions to continue the proeess of involvoment and awareness. "This is your uni­versity experience ... make your decision about what you're going to do," she said. 
The final featured speaker of the afternoon was Dee Rolland, director of the Peace and Justice Commission of the Salt Lake Catholic Diocese. The Catholic Church actively worked as an intermediary for peace in Chiapas. 
The bishop o!' San Cristobal in Chiapas has negotiated peaceful accords between the Mexican government and the Zapatistas, and many threats to his life have become known in recent times. 
''In 1995, 11 American priests were arrested and deported from Mexico for no reason," Rolland said. 

Monday, January 19, 1998 The Observer • INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
• CHINA 
Defense officials sign accord with U.S. 
Cohen signs agreement with hope offostering trust between militaries 
Associated Press 
BEIJING 

In a small step to build trust between the militaries of China and the United States, Dllfcnse Secretary William Cohen and his Chinese counterpart on Monday signed an accord designed to avoid naval and air con­flicts at sea. 
In a brief ceremony at Diaoyutai, a gov­ernment guest house complex, Gen. Chi llaotian told Cohen the agreement "marked a new and substantive progress in relations between thB two countries and between the two militaries." 
The accord, which Cohen said was the United States' first formal agreement with tlw People's Liberation Army, was set last October when President Jiang Zemin met with President Clinton in Washington. Monday's signing puts it into effect. 
In remarks at the ceremony, Cohen said tlw agreement will reduce the chanc~s for miscalculation as the U.S. and Chmese navies come in mor!l regular contact at sea. 
"'This agreement demonstrates the 
maturing relationship between our mili­taries," Cohen said. 
Before the signing ceremony, Cohen visit­ed an air defense command center outside Beijing. American reporters traveling ~ith Cohen were not allowed to accompany h1m. 
U.S. officials said Monday's visit to the air defense headquarters was the first by any 
'CHINA WILL DO ITS VERY BEST IN 
ORDER TO ACHIEVE THE GOAL 
OF ESTABLISHING A CONSTRUCTIVE, 
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE 
TWO COUNTRIES.' 
GEN. CHI HAOTIAN 
CHINA's DEFENSE CHIEF 
foreigner. They said the Chinese had been so secretive about the site that until this month they denied it existed; Cohen's trip planners were not given the addres~ of t~e site until a few days before he arrlVed m Beijing on Saturday. 
Cohen's visit to China is the first by an American secretary of defense since 1994. On Sunday afternoon Chi welcomed Cohen to Beijing with a military honors cer­
emony and an assurance that China wants to develop closer relations with the United States. 
"China will do its very best in order to achieve the goal establishing a constructive, strategic partnership between the two countries," Chi said in a dinner toast to Cohen in the ornate Xinjiang Room of the Great Hall of the People. 
Chi also thanked the United States for providing humanitarian aid to victims of last week's powerful earthquake in Hebei province north of Beijing. A U.S. Air Force C-17 cargo plane ferried food, medical sup­plies and other provisions to the earthquake site where tens of thousands of houses were flattened. 
He said this showed America and China agree "a friend in need is a friend ind~ed." 
Earlier Chi hosted a formal welcommg for Cohen in a chilly hall at a military museum, where the two defense chiefs reviewed a Chinese military honor guard. 
Cohen, who spent last week touring Southeast Asia, spent most of Sunday rest­ing and preparing for a full day of meetings Monday, to include talks with Chi and Foreign Minister Qian Qichen ai_Id a lu~ch meeting with Gen. Zhang Wanman, a v1ce chairman of the Central Military Commission, the military's controlling coun­
cil. Cohen also was giving a speech at China's Academy of Military Science. 
WELCOME YOU BACK: 
NOTEBOOKS, DISKETTES, CALENDARS, CLOTHING, BACKPACKS AND MORE. 
.. AND DON'T FORGET YOUR TEXTBOOKS! 
YOU ALWAYS SAVE BIG WITH USED BOOKS! 
THE HAMMES NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE 
' . 

• GUATEMALA 
Gunmen 
rape U.S. 
st.udents 
GUATEMALA CITY 
Five college students on an educational tour of Guatemala were raped af'ter their nus was afubushed by gunmen on a winding road in a hilly region known for banditzy~ polk S 
Threil staff mliers 13 students from St. Mary's College, Md., were on a tour bus re ing t,Q_Guatemala City ay afternoon, A pickup truck stopped the bus and four men With semiauto· matic weapons forced every­one irttd a nearby field, col­lege spokesman Torre Meringolo said. "The bus was held down 
by four armed bandits who 
proceeded to rob each of the 
individuals,'' he said. "Then 
.. they sexually assaulted five 
.·of the women, all students/' 
The gunmen held the group for 1 1/2 hours, the college said in a statement Police said the attatk occurred near Santa Lucia Cotzulmalguapa, on a hilly road ;l.bout 40 miles from the Guatemalan capital. 
The region, where guerril­la activities were once com· mon, has a reputation for lawlessness and banditry. Guatemala has been shaken the past year or so by a wave of kidnappings, road­
. block assaults and a surge in crime since the 36-year civil war ended. 
Guatemalan authorities had two men, ages 37 and 24, in custody, an official in 
.• the criminal investigations 
• unit of the national police .· told The Associated Press late Sunday. The students who were raped were treated in a 
··Guatemala City hospital and returned to the United States Saturday night. The remain· ing studen.ts returned to Washington's Dulles airport Sunday night and were met by the college's president, 
.. acting provost and dean of students. "Our first concern is for ·· the well-being of the stu­dents, faculty and their fami­lies," college president Jane Margaret O'Brien said earli­er in a statement. "We are 
·· heartbroken by this sense· less violent attack on our students and colleagues." The college has been working with the State ··Department, which is treat­ing it With "the utmost urgency," Meringolo said. The State Department offi­cial said that the U.S. gov­ernment is working with Guatemalan authorities. 
The tour was sponsored by the public four-year liberal arts college in southern Maryland. 


~M(Ut-1 ' BAHAMAS 
l.4 HOURS OF FR££ DRit_.KS! 
7 nights from 5299! Includes RT an, hotel, 241 hours of free drmks ;;~nd weekly P.a.rtY I'Chedule of spnng break events! Organ1ze 15 freinds and EARN A FREE TRIPt 
IIIICI Is llmlllll Cll IIIWII 
~;)®®®;)®2®=>®~~~ 
., ..rmJt. • ~liJ«LUmlA~t.cowr 
•lGC~"" ............ MAOU'IS 
~ ......... ,2 ... 0 

page 8 The Observer • ENTERTAINMENT NEWS Monday, January 19, 1998 
'Titanic' sinks competition at Golden Globes 
Associated Press 
BEVEHLY lllLLS, Calif. 

"Titanic" was named best dra­matic picture and earned three other awards during Sunday night's Golden Globes, a presage for the upcoming Academy Awards. 
"Does this prove that size mat­ters?"craeked director James Cameron of his movie-the most expensive ever made-as he held aloft his statuette for best dramatic picture. 
Cameron, who also earned the best directing trophy, almost single-handedly piloted the film through years of research and $200 million of 20th Century Fox's and Paramount's money. 
Thn movie also won awards for best original score and song, "My lleart Will Go On." 
In television. "Ally McBeal" bmtt out such highly rated shows as "Seinfeld"and "Frasier" for best musical or comedy, and its star, Calista Flockhart, won the best actress trophy. 
"As Good As It Gets" proved the big winner in the comedy or musical film category, winning for best movie and earning tro­phies for stars Jack Nicholson and llelen llunt as well as dirPc­tor James Brooks. 
Two veteran performers were lwnomd as best dramatic actors: Judi Deneb for her role as Qw~en Victoria in "(Iter Majesty) Mrs. Brown." and Peter Fonda for his portrayal of a troubled fallwr and beekcnpnr in "Uine's Gold." 
Ms. Hunt, who won last ynar's Goldnn Globe as lnading actress in a TV musical or comedy series for "Mad About You," dedicated her award to Brooks: "You've made me a better actor forever," she said. 
Ms. llunt also expressed her gratitude to co-star Nicholson. 
"They say never meet your idols, and then you blow that out of the water," she told the Beverly Hilton crowd during the nationally televised 55th Hollywood Foreign Press Association presentations. "You're my hero as an actor." 
Burt Reynolds, the porno movie producer of "Boogie Nights," and Kim Basinger, the Veronica Lake look-alike call girl of "L.A. Confidential," won best supporting actor trophies for a drama, comedy or musical motion picture. 
"Please remember, if you hang on to things long enough they get back in style, like me," Heynolds said. 
Ms. Basinger kissed her hus­band, Alec Baldwin, and walked to the stage to say wonderingly as she looked at her Golden Globe: "So this is what these things look like up close." 
Best foreign language film went to "My Life in Pink (Ma Vie en Rose.)" 
"Titanic" had a leading eight nominations and lost one to "Good Willllunting," which won for best screenplay. 
Matt Damon and Ben Affieck, best friends since childhood, wrote and starred in the com­ing-of-age tale about a genius. 
"This is a little overwhelming ' for two guys who never even won a raffie," Affieck said. 
The honors from the Hollywood Foreign Press Association are considered a possible indication of winners at the Academy Awards on March 
23. In the last 15 years, 11 films that won best motion picture honors at the Golden Globes went on to take the same prize at the Oscars. 
The numbers are about the same for the best actor and best actress awards. 
Unlike the Academy Awards, the Golden Globes honor televi­sion shows and split the movie awards for best picture, actor and actress between two cate­gories-drama and comedy or musical. 
The best TV dramatic actor awards went to stars of medical shows-Christine Lahti of "Chicago Hope" and Anthony Edwards of "ER." 
Lahti was in the bathroom when her name was announced. 
"I was just flushing the toilet when someone said 'you won' and I thought, 'what a terrible joke,"'she said. 
Also in the TV category, Michael J. Fox won best actor in a musical or comedy for his show "Spin City." 
The trophies for the actors were somewhat of a surprise. Fox beat out such high-rated comedy stars as Paul Reiser and Jerry Seinfeld, who recently announced he would end his popular NBC series "Seinfeld" at the end of this season. Ms. Flockhart bested comic main­stays Helen Hunt and Kirstie Alley. 
Alfre Woodard won best actress in a TV miniseries for "Miss Evers' Boys"and Ving Rhames won the best actor tro­phy in that category for "Don King: Only in America." 
Rhames came to the stage sob-

The Big ·~ 
Wu1.ners 

The 1998 Golden Globe Awards took place last night at the Beverly Hills Hilton. The following were among the honorees: 
•
BEST PICTURE, DRAMA: Titanic 

• 
BESTACTOR, DRAMA: Peter Fonda, "Ulee's Gold" 

• 
BESTACTRESS, DRAMA: DameJudi Dench, "(Her Majesty) Mrs. Brown" 

• 
BEST PICTURE, COMEDY: ".fu Good as it Gets" 

• 
BESTACTOR, COMEDY: Jack Nicholson, ".fu Good as it Gets" 

• 
BESTACTRESS, COMEDY: Helen Hunt, ".fu Good as it Gets" 

• 
BEST 1VDRAMA: "The X-Files" 

• 
BEST 1VCOMEDY: "Ally McBeal" 


bing, "It's an honor and I'd like a hand of applause please for all of the other nominees." 
In a surprise move, he invited veteran actor Jack Lemmon to come to the stage. Hhames handed the trophy to Lemmon, saying he deserved it, as the audience gave a standing ova­tion. Lemmon was nominated for the same award for his role in "12 Angry Men." 
"George Wallace" won the best TV miniseries or made-for­TV movie, and one of its stars, Angelina Jolie, won for best sup­porting actress in that category. George C. Scott, who didn't attend the ceremonies, won the best supporting actor trophy f!lr "12 Angry Men." 
One award was announced before the eeremony: Shirley MacLaine was honored with tlw Cecil B. DeMille Award for "out­standing contribution to the entertainment field." Forty-three years ago, she won hnr first of four Golden Globes as "new star of the year." 
For the third straight year, NBC devoted three hours of prime time to the Golden Globes. 
The 1996 show ended a 14­year drought for major network exposure caused by aceusations of corrupt voting practices by the Foreign Press Assodation. 
alumni-senior club bridget mcguire's bw-3's cj's club 23 coach's linebacker madison oyster bar mccormick's 

cards are available in student government l2nd floor lafonuneJ, mishawaka brewing co. the oHice of dreg & alcohol education lmezzanine level of lafonunel or through vour hall presidents starling wednesdav. 
student government
& the office of drug and alcohol education 


Monday, January 19, 1998 page 9 
U.S. hopes Hunger 
Associated Press '"'"'·n·""···· issued a lZ·pageJist .. mostly dealing with. security, 
strike

WASHINGTON the Palestinianswould have to 
Israel's Benjamin Netanyahu and IsraelstartS new withdrawals. Palestinian Y asser Arafat visit Washington Netanyabu, interViewed on CNN'S this week in what U.S. officials said Edition.: st~essed that the em,now-: 
ends

Sunday will be a crucial opportunity to ered.him to diseuss.with .............:u revive a Middle East peace process that withdrawals "subject to PLO ·cmnplliart¢e. has stagnated for a year. fie sa.id.the size and · Associated Press 
"We don't want to raise hopes prema-' turely. but I think getting a negotiating~ MIAMI track process going is going to be critical­Three farm workers gave up Iyimportant," Bill Richardson, thtt US; their hunger strike Sunday ambassador to the United Nations, said on because former President "Fox News Sunday." Jimmy Carter offered to inter­
Arafat and Netanyahu will meet sepa· vene in their dispute with rately with President Clinton to discuss the tomato growers. peace process. which has floundered over "We're suspending the fast Israeli contentions that Arafat has done out of respect for the presi­too little to control terrorism and dent, and the other people who Palestinian assertions that Israel has not have asked us to do so," Lucas lived up to promises to withdraw from Benitez, a staffer for the West Bank territory. Coalition of Immokalee 
Israel's cabinet delayed any decision Workers, said Sunday. Sunday on future West Bank withdrawals Six tomato pickers embarked until after Netanyahu returns from his on the hunger strike on Dec. meeting Tuesday with Clinton. The cabinet 20, allowing themselves only 
sugar water, sports drinks and fruit juices. Three stopped their fast-two just last week

Top Iraqi diplomat murdered in Jordan 
-because of health concerns. 

Associated Press Namir Ochi ran a company for Western diplomats said the Brig. Hisham Nsour, head of In a letter dated Jan. 16, 
President Saddam Hussein that decision was not related to the the Amman Public Security Carter said he hoped to 
AMMAN, Jordan handled food imports into Iraq. slayings. Department. arrange direct talks between 
Unidentified assailants slit the Ochi also apparently was The attackers struck just as Thomas' cook, who is of employees and workers. throats of eight people in a hill­involved in illegal arms imports Al-Hajou and other guests at Greek origin, was the lone sur­The letter was also sent to top villa, including a top Iraqi and owed the Iraqi leadership the Amman home of Iraqi busi­vivor. the Florida Fruit and diplomat and a billionaire who millions of dollars, Western nessman Sami George Thomas She was hospitalized with Vegetable Association, but no reportr.dly owed the Iraqi lead­diplomats said, speaking on had finished a banquet break­severe injuries, but was able to one answered the phone ership millions of dollars, offi­condition of anonymity. ing the daily fast for the Islamic speak with police. Sunday at the association cials said Sunday. Meanwhile, on Sunday, holy month of Ramadan. Police cordoned off the area offices. 
Authorities said they were Saddam ordered the immediate Four or five masked men, around the villa in the upscale The strikers are based in unsure about a motive for the release of all Jordanian prison­speaking with Iraqi accents, Rabiyeh district of Amman, Immokalee, 25 miles southeast Saturday night attack, but said ers from Iraq after meeting entered the white stone villa, while officers carted files and of Fort Myers. the diplomat-llikmet al-Hajou, with Leith Shubeilat, a well­tied up their victims one by one notebooks from the house. Coalition representatives the No. 2 man at the Iraqi known Jordanian opposition to the same chair, slit their An Iraqi government state­said the strike would definitely mnbassy in Amman-was proba­figure who is sympathetic throats and stabbed them, the ment described the killings as be suspended, but weren't sure bly not the target. toward Iraq, the official Iraqi lone survivor told police. "a heinous crime" and demand­when the men would have 
Slain Iraqi businessman News Agency reported. The bodies were then· scat­ed an immediate investigation. their first meal. 
tered throughout the three­It said the undersecretary of Benitez warned the end of 



7-t. fltm ~· e.s.e 

'?M fUMe~ rue~ ~~~(Ute-~~ p~ ~ 
~s~ • ~ va.Hee, 1~ 46556 {2/tJ) 63!-63F5 • Mtp://~.d.edee/-~ 
ANSWER*­
THECALL\(!)1
-.... ....... ~ 

story house, security officials Iraq's Foreign Ministry, Saad the fast is not the end of the said. al-Faisal, and a senior Iraqi dispute. 
Thomas. 62, who had lived in security official had gone to "If the growers don't even Jordan for several years, was Jordan to push for a thorough respect (Carter's) request, among those killed. He is probe. we'll continue with whatever believed to have been involved Relations between Iraq and means necessary that's nonvio­in private business deals for Jordan have been tense since lent," he said. Saddam and his eldest son, Iraq executed four Jordanians The strikers claim tomato Odai, for the past decade. for smuggling car parts worth field workers' wages are lower 
Also killed were: al-Hajou's $850. The Jordanian govern­than they were 20 years ago. wife, Leila Shaaban, 39; two ment had asked Iraq to spare Pickers earn 40 cents a bucket, other wealthy Iraqi business­the young men and since has about $9,000 a year, and are men; and an Egyptian night asked Iraq to free all of its seeking a 20-cent raise, watchman and his friend, said Jordanian prisoners. according to the coalition. 
Our Sensational Outlook Centers Around Your Vision 
We're the Information Technology Group (lTG) of NOVUS Services and it's our responsibility to provide the technical support behind Discover, Private Issue, and Bravo credit cards. And with 48 million cardmembers ·and a large merchant 
network, this is no small task. But with strong corporate support, a state-of-the-art technical environment and talented team-oriented professionals who love what they do, we accomplish some pretty amazing feats. 
As we move forward, we're looking for you. Currently, our needs call for Comruter Science and MIS individuals with experience in any of the following areas: 
COBOL • C • C++ • JAVA • HTML • VSAM • DB/2 • CICS JCL • OS/2 PM • UNIX • AIX • Oracle 

Please join us at the: 
1998 SUMMER/INTERNSHIP JOB FAIR Thursday, January 22nd • 1:30pm-4:30pm University of Notre Dame Joyce Center Concourse, 2nd Fir. 
We offer excellent salaries and benefits, including 401 K, profit sharing, and tuition· reimbursement, accompanied by an array of workplace amenities and activities for your enjoyment. Our incredible facility in north suburban Riverwoods features a health club, full-service cafeteria, sundries store with dry cleaning services, ATM, softball field, volleyball court, jogging path, and much more. If unable to attend, please send resume to: 
NOVUS Services, Inc., Human Resources, ~NOVUS IT Recruiter, 2500 Lake Cook Road, ~SERVICES Riverwoods, IL 60015, Taking charge in a changing world. 
Fax: (847) 405-1388 www.novusnet.com 
Equal Opportunity Employer MIF/DN 

----------~--------­
page I 0 

VIEWPOINT 
THE OBSERVER 

Nm RF. 0AME OFfiCE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARY's OffiCE: 309 I laggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
I 997-98 General Board 
Editor-in-Chief Brad Prendergast Man<~ging Editor Business Manager Jamac Hci!llcr Tom Roland Assistanc Managin~ Editor 

D.m Cichal>kt New.\ Editor.. . ............. Heather Cocks Advertising Manager ...........................Jed Pcrers Viewpoint Editor ..................... Kelly Brooks Ad Design Manager ...................Jennifer Breslow Sports Editor ................................Mike Day Production Manager ........................Mark DeBoy Accent Editor .......................... Joey Crawford Systems Manager ......................Michad Brouiller Saint Mary's Editor ....................... Lori Allen Controller. ................................... Kyle Carlin 
.
Photo Editor ........................... Katie Kroener 

·rhe <.)bservcr i~ rhC' ind~pcndent ncw~pa~r published by rhc students of rhc Universicy of Notre [)arne du Lac and Saint Mary\ College. It does not necessarily reflect the policies of rhe administration ofeither imrirurion. The news i.\ reported as accurately alid objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent rhc opinion of the majority of the Ediwr-iry-Chief, Managing Edi[or, Assistam Managing Editor, News Editor, Viewpoint Editor, Sports Editor, Accent Editor, Saint Mary's Editor, Photo Editor, and Associate News Ediror. Commentaries, letter~ and Inside Col limns prescnr rhc views of rhc authors, and not ncccs­~arily those: ofThe Observer. Viewpoint space is availablc ro all mcm~rs of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary's ":ommuniry and to all reader~. The free cxpres.o.ion of varying opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Observer Phone Lines 

Editor-in-Chief  631-4542  Business Office  631-5313  
Managing Editor  631-4541  Advertising  631-6900/8840  
News/Photo  631-5323  Systems  631-88.19  
Sports  631-4543  Office Manager  631-7471  
Accent/Saint Mary's  GJ 1-4540  Fax  631-6927  
Day Editor/Viewpoint  631-5303  Viewpoint E-Mail  Viewpoinr.l @nd.edu  
General Information  631-7471  Ad E-Mail  observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu  


• LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Mukerjee and Rinehold Question Coffee House Changes 
What is it about change that frightens people'? I think we all know the answer to that. It is bneause it is uncomfortable, and it wakes us up out of that safe haven that we tend to slip into. There is nothing wrong with honoring tradition, a~d boing at a Catholic institution, it is very impor­tant to mspnet such mores and ideologies that foundml our college. What roally rweds to be addrnss11d, however, that is not currently addressed, is that other half of tlw Saint Mary's mission statement that so boldly rnads that we pioneer change. · Do we really'? 
It is important not only that we fi1llow our mission statmnent. but that it is true to its word. We may as well omit that statement if we are not going to abide by it. I believe that tlw only way wo could truly pioneer change is if the people on this eampus would let it happen. It seoms too many people are stuck in their ways to allow individuality and a little divnrgent thinking for tlHJ bllttnr. What happened to tlw crnativn mind that we all arc seeking for in education'? It is integral in growth and d!JVelopnwnt, at any stagn in life, that creativity is fostered. 

Expn1ssing ourselvns is a necessity. Somn peopln are able to do so in the ath­lntics that tlwy have found thoir talent to he in. some in their academics, some in tlwir jobs, and some do so in their extracurricular activities. These are all opportunitins and experiences that make each of us leaders. In being a leader, your goals and id1ms are not only for your ben­niH alone, as you all know. They should also b11 made for the people around you and the friends and acquaintances you have made. If one were simply out to bnt­tnr him/herself alone, where would we all lw? On the other hand, if one were out to make a change for the better as a leader at this eolloge and was told that she was only out for hersnlf. where would we be? I would have to say that we would be right hack to where wn started from. When you hindnr an individual from being a leader, and from cn1atively expressing talents and abilitins, you are blocking what could bn tomorrow's innovation, and you are definitely not honoring the mission state­ment in pioneering change at Saint Mary's College. 
Each and every one of us is different­that is a given. We all have different needs and wants, but there can only be so many that can actually perform the act of change in the name of the student body here at Saint Mary's. Two leaders at Saint Mary's by the names of Joya Mukerjee and Mia Rinehold, were in the position to implement their ideas and talents at the not-so-commonly-frequented Clarissa Dalloway's Coffee I louse. If any of you students have visited this area, and from the survey we took to find out which of you had, you should know the condition it was in before the two anonymous stu­dents stepped in as managers. From that awkward night that we were delegated as volunteer managers until the awkward day that we were terminated by Student Activities at Saint Mary's, we put our everything into the venture to make that place light up. Now all we can do is write this letter to the editor to fill you, as part of thi) Saint Mary's community, in on what we went through that ended in the "personnel decision" to be terminated. 
If you read the article in Friday's Observer, you will know that we decided not to comment at that time. We found it untimely to speak of hindering students in an artide that wrote that Dalloway's stood for "what the student says goes." We did not experience that at all-even though we believed that was what we were in it for. It looks like after we put our time into organizing what wasn't organized, cleaning what was not cleaned, updating machines that were never updated, and so on, it only led to giving these new managers the chance to do "what they wish." 
Contemplate this, fellow students, enter­ing [)alloway's this year yet to find it the "same old way it's always been." Those of you who had been there before or who filled out our student survey know what we are talking about. It doesn't take a chief executive to realize that you would not have returned to this dormant build­ing unless you had a reason to. We were giving you that reason. After being shunned by the assistant director of Student Activities, our supposed "advis­er," we decided to execute a new route, one that would help us to implement the ideas, desires, and needs of our student body. We knew Student Activities did not own or run this building on campus, and 
· we knew that the needs of the students were not being met through all of the "no's" that we received from our one adviser, so we sought another source, the president of the College. We found no rea­son that said we could not prepare a pro­posal for the president of the College. She was our only hope in allowing us to exe­cute our plans for the clubhouse. We wanted to open this place for the students at a proper time and with what they wanted inside (as you will see partial remains of our ideas in Dalloway's now, only with the new manager's.) After get­ting the impression that we finally had the chance and the opportunity to fix up Dalloway's, we went for it with all of our might. One week later our supplies were confiscated, our ideas were ridiculed, and our creativity was shunned. We were told that we were impatient and that we went too far. As leaders and as students with growing minds, we really are still shocked by the reaction we got to pioneering change at Saint Mary's College. Neither of us believe that we could have possibly gone too far when our foresight was for the (timely) opening of a brand new look at a location with potential and character for our fellow students. 
We want to say that we admit we exe­cuted our plans without having a firm say-so from each in the hierarchy at the College. With no updated job descriptions, coffee shop policies and procedures, or financial reports, we did what we had to do to get this place on its feet. We hit a brick wall every time we attempted to brainstorm our ideas aloud to our first source. Our initial feelings in going into this was that we had a lot to do in a minute amount of time if we were to make a change for the better at Dalloway's. We were told that we would "never be allowed to" do nearly every­thing that we set out to do. Aftnr putting hours into creative brainstorming, search­ing for new decor ideas, typing out new and updated procedures and policies, and the energy that any unorganizod ventum would take, we were very disappointed that we were continuously being told that we were not allowed. We were also frus­trated that all of the "no's" had no sup­porting reasons or explanations. In fact, many of the reasons that we were given imperatively, we researched and found them to be fictitious. Do you see why W!) sought another source? 
To those of you who have heard bits and pieces about this, we hope you ask questions to find out why we were termi­nated when all of our changes were fin­the better. To those of you who take up the positions as student managers in place of us, please remember what we went through. To those of you who wish they could have seen what Dalloway's was going to look like and fenl like after we completed our job there, we have to respond with, "We do, too." To those of you who find us in the wrong for making a change to tl1e cold cofli)e that was served, the unsanitary conditions that were ignored, the stale atmosphere, and the inconsist1mcics that existnd, you must be seeing it as those who terminated us saw it. 
It takes a creative mind to go against the restrictive mind-sets that many pnople simply settle with. It also takes a creative mind to uphold our mission statement. We wanted to give you the pleasure of a different atmosphere, one with a spark of creativity and exploration, one with com­forting and appeasing deeor. one with each and everyone of your ideas repre­sented. All we wanted to do was pioneer change at a place on our campus that really nneded it. 
Mia Rinehold and Joya Mukerjee Seniors, LcMans Hall January 17, 1998 

• DOONESBURY 
~ICJWi.. ..KJRJJ4NHa.P.S~
A
PReS CONF/3?ENC1;;. 
A9 YOUAU K/1/0PJ, I'M 
CURF£Wll.YMAKINOA 
TRANSmONFROM ATH­L£TE 7D 8tJSIN/3G5MAN... 
/ 

GARRY TRUDEAU 
fW<TOF 7JIATE 7l?YING 

7lJ tJN~ANI? 7lf!3 1?08­t/3M9 OFOFF-iHOfi!& SHOI; A~SCMf!l.Y. I'~HeARl? A tOTOF TAtK Apaff 
N/Ke!3 SO-CAU&Jl\ 
A~,,M/1/t-a/ 
ff9 77M!3 FORM& 7rJ CH3CKITAU Ol/T... 
• QuoTE OF THE DAY 
"What artists call pos­terity is the posteri­ty of the work of art." 
-Marcel Proust 

VIEWPOINT
Monday, January 19, 1998 page 11 
• FROM THE lEFT 
Ring in the New Year as an Out-of-Work Temp in New Jersey 
The spectre of stability looms over my head as we hur-Free love, what a success story from our parent's gen-rah ourselves into the new year amidst the public weep-eration! Of course, my reality in California was none of ing over a half-baked Republican songster who crashed these things. California is a gorgeous state; we just didn't into a tree, an in-law of Arnold Schwartzenegger, a nun get along. The food, the surroundings of redwoods, and who worked virulently against women's issues and thus the Bay: spectacular. But sun and 70-degree weather undermined the cause of the poor, and the irritating, daily made me ill. I need the seasons as cold as it gets. grossly wealthy mumblings of the And how could I be expected to "fit minstrel of celebrity death: dirge in"? As a native New Jerseyan who writer and talentless Elton John. is a veteran of South Bend winters, We leave behind us to surface how could I possibly wear my scant again only as sound bites the hair in braids and drool at the
DaVid rebirth of the American labor prospect of the afternoon's herbal movement, the little-noticed mass tea? How could I, who grew up on starvation of North Koreans (it's the outskirts of the city that invented
McMahon the Commies!), and amidst jubilant carjacking, be expected to happily Wall Street backslapping, glad-work as a temp in Silicon Valley or handing and plain old "aw shucks gripe over the weather forecast of a Bob" corn-fed sentimentality, a light drizzle? Woody Allen sums up supposedly buoyant eco-,----,-------,-----,.---------------, my general attitude 
nomic system continues to ravage the environment, steal from the workers, enrich the rich, and swoon over the prospective of rap­ing new markets. 
Wake up Domers! 
The new economic false dawn is rearing its ugly Bill Gates' head. and it means temp slavery for you, neuro-surgeon or not! The new economic imperialists force austerity onto puppet economies in Asia, and thus delay a perhaps inevitable collapse and world-wide depression. Or aren't we there already, as wealth spirals upward into the grubby hands of unpa­triotic CEOs, and executives at Manpower attempt to undermine the minimum wage laws. While the human species rushes towards catastrophe, a bio­logical probability of extinc­tion. and a future not too di!Terent from that pictured in "Starship Troopers," I gloomily muse over the wide-eyed enthusiasm so prevalent in the well-fed, comfortable Republican relations of mine who this past Christmas dismissed aflirmative action and with a wave of the magic corpo­rate wand, a school-lad's giggle, a bulging wallet, and the stock options to answer Rodney King's question "Why can't we all get along?" It could be the furious cold and ice in Burlington, Vt., that has brought on this pes­sirnisti'c outburst, or perhaps it has something to do with the fact that they rejected my offer of pocket lint as pay­ment at the local movie theater tonight. It could be any of the series of temp jobs I held for a day or more these past few months, sans health benefits. In case you won­der why I am in Burlington, a ray of sunshine has pierced this frigid winter, and I have landed a good posi­tion working for Dismas House of Central Massachusetts. I am currently training to direct that program. 
Dismas is a group of ex-offenders and students who build community. Dismas provides a stable environment for ex-on·enders upon re-entry to society. Further, it pro­vides for students an environment in which they can expand their educational processes by living with a con­siderably different population and building on the mis­sion of Dismas. You all should go talk to Kathy Royer in the Center for Social Concerns about volunteering in or living at the Dismas in South Bend. I can guarantee that it is an enriching experience, and will save you half of what you pay for room and board at Notre Dame. Go see Kathy Hoyer in the Center for Social Concerns. Immediately! 
It is so cold outside I dare not even venture out there. I think California made me into a softy, racing my vintage, unrusted speedster up and down the clogged arteries of "the empire's western walls." The sun shining, humming the theme from "Baywatch Nights," imagining myself an aging lifeguard detective with poorly done plastic surgery. Gripping the rail of the Rice-a-Roni trolley in San Francisco with the feverish elan of a sun-bathing, turquoise-Izod clad Midwesterner. And of course, run­ning naked through the free-Jove streets of Berkeley, hair hanging down to my bottom, electric cars zooming around as hard-pressed hippy businessmen practice business zen or yell into cell phones to find out why their stock in "Ben and Jerry's" has plummeted. 
towards the West Coast, when in "Annie Hall," he orders a plate of "mashed yeast." For me that is California-burnt out hip­pies and mashed yeast. 
So I found myselfleaving California a month after my girlfriend on a plane-unemployed, with my two cats, and memories a-plen­ty. I arrived in New Jersey, and lo and behold, my unemployed mother found us both work. As temps. For the same company. In the same office. And at first, even at the same table!!! Ah how bizarre it is to work with your mother, and how strange it must have been for her to work with me! The cats stayed at home, and, as usual, did little if anything to improve the family income. In case you are wondering, my cats are wonderful crea­tures, with rank breath and attitude, and I love them enough to fly them home from California. And there they are now, keep­ing the kitchen chairs warm until I liberate my parents from their constant demands and move them into a new apartment. More about Tom and Esmerelda later. So my mother and I were temps 
at a huge firm for a huge class action suit in Newark, New Jersey! We were about to encounter the misfits, psychos. and the clueless existing at the fringe of Manhattan corporate life, thinking they have a life, laughing at unions, and voting Republican. 
Meanwhile, they never realized, that, By Zeus!, they were temps. At least not until the day of swift manageri­aljustice-300 laid off just before the holidays! One more clear example of how mean and vicious corporate America really is. Not that it mattered to me. I had done little if any work for them, and I ditched my last two weeks worth of work after they gave us our holiday sur­prise. What? No company watch!! Anyway, mother and I really did have quite a blast. Her table mate was a hypochondriac, former professional tennis player lesbian lawyer, and I got to work in the main "office" with 30 of the crankiest, clueless, life-less stiffs I have ever laid eyes on. Of course, that was when I even bothered to be there. I preferred on this temp assignment to be paid to explore Newark and take care of personal business, as well as have a good time, eats, and drinks with my new­found socialist friends. Why not? Don't we taxpayers subsidize McDonald's executives to play Minesweeper? And don't we subsidize these people's mansion building, oil spills, wars, arms sales, and pillage of our resources? It was a hard sell for my mother, who could change the world given the chance. She pointed out that I could eas­ily get fired. 
I pointed out that they would fire us all together unless I searched out a non-existent boss and throttled them. She half-agreed. Stay tuned for more exciting tabloid-worthy new stories and political kvetching!! 
Dave McMahon is freezing and training for a director­ship ofDismas in Worcester. Mass.. and can be reached via e-mail at dmcmahon32@hotmail. com. His column appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 
• SENTIMENTAl RATIONAliTY 
Making a Statement? 

What is the function of rhetorical questions? Do they display a lack of demonstrable certainty in an idea? Or rather, as might be the case in an academic setting, do rhetorical questions reveal an acute perception of the uncertainty inherent in life and learning? · 
Michael Peppard 

And where do we get the notion that those who repeatedly ask rhetorical questions have any sort of intelligence? Isn't it also possible that they just don't know much about anything? Did the notion come from Socrates, who thought that the only true wisdom was in knowing that one knows nothing? Or do we learn this from lofty philoso­phy students who are perpetually assailing main­stream viewpoints with witty and sardonic quips? Are puffed-up rhetoricians simply involved in a trivial pursuit? Or does rhetorical questioning yield some valuable product? 
And must such questions actually be structured as questions? Isn't it true that vocal inflection in a declarative statement may be inferred as a rhetorical question? Don't we often raise the pitch in our voice at the end of a sentence to sug­gest an air of uncertainty? Is this then a cop-out? Are such offenders just afraid of looking like excessive question-askers, so they present ques­tions under the guise of a truth-affirming state­ment? 0, Rhetoric, art thou not perplexing to us? 
Weren't you one of the foundations of ancient wisdom, along with the other liberal arts, adorned in the stained glass of O'Shaughnessy's Great Hall? Then why do I not understand you and your purpose? Did you intend to be morphed into an unanswerable question and used so fre­quently and so clumsily? Are you saddened when we hide our inadequacies behind your shield and suffocate your coy charm? Or are you indifferent, being yourself in whatever way we choose to use you? Are you a definable entity? Or is your art and very form at the mercy of each passing lin­guistic generation? 
Tell me, 0 Muse, why does your purpose elude us? And what of your questions which much do confuse us? Your winged words and wiles-what light do they shed on our proud situation which mocks you instead? Why do you surrender to our poor verbal training, allowing us glory with the wit we keep feigning? Rhetoric, 0 friend, will you come to my aid and save me from printing this mockery I've made? Or will you ignore me and thereby implore me to learn from your subtleties -tricks of the trade? Is not the fault mine that I use you not well? Or am I just victim to speeches friends tell? Do they exculpate me from rhetorical folly? But I'm my own person, am I not (I'm not Dolly!)? 
So aren't I to blame for my own use of ques­tions? Don't they prove my incompetency with language formation? Idea production, is that under my sanction? Or is mine just a case of improper promulgation? Inquisitiveness, arro­gance, or interrogation? Which is it that tends me toward word manipulation? Am I a poor victim of mal-education? Or is this epidemic sweeping the nation? More questions than answers, why are you still calling? How is my rhetoric to improve when answers keep stalling? Will I never under­stand the principles of combustion? How can I when I am answered with a "faux" -question? 
Rhetorical Question, do you offer no progress? Do you offer no brilliance save option to digress? Are you just the Grinch who thwarts eloquent sal­vation? How do I use you without indignation? Grant, if you will -the last chance to know­how will answe!"s come when the questions won't slow? 
Michael Peppard is a senior philosophy and theology major and currently resides in the Pimp Lounge on Madison Street. He welcomes your e­mails at Michael.L.Peppard.2@nd.edu. His col­umn appears every other Monday. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


By MIKE MCMORROW which different characters view a par­the true reason is due to Matt Damon. Christmas without a coupln good epics, Accent Movie Critic ticular situatinn, view the other players In "Good Will Hunting," he is so con­right? Steven Spielberg, in "Amistad," involvement in that situation, and most vincing as the title character that I for­gives us a history l!lsson of a slavn no of the triumphs in all of the interestingly, the way characters over­got I had ever seen him before. And revolt on a ship, and tho trial following. holiday movies this season is estimate and underestimate each surely, part of his success in being such It appears to be a stellar east, with manifested in the writing. I saw other's potential for deception and a character is due to the writing (which Morgan Freeman, Matthew eight movies in recnnt weeks, many of intelligent cons. And with "Jackie he also contributed to). I found that the McConaughey, and Anthony Hopkins. which are successful, in one way or Brown," Tarantino proves himself a most amazing thing about the film was But it is amazing how littln they stand another, on the basis of the screenwrit­master of the criminal psyche and dia­the writers' ability to understand the out. The film's greatest accomplish­ing. We are given characters on the logue for eccentric and sometimes contradiction of genius and lethargy ment is in the portrayal of the African­screen who convince us of their filthy characters. that is central to the character, Will American defendants. It would havn authenticity and uniqueness because Hunting. I also appreciated the effec-been more original, and certainly more the audience occupies a high degree of TOMORROW NEVER DIES intnresting, to Spielberg to antkipation as to what they might say. Those who miss the senseless vio­give them a little more But the joy of the season lies not only in lence of some of Tarantino's earlier screen-time and a little less the writing, but also in the diversity of films may want to steer towards Mr. screen-time to thn pallid films. Of the seven films that I saw, I Bond, in "Tomorrow Never Dies." Yes, McConaughey attempting to enjoyed at least something about each we get the car (in this installment, the portray a struggling lawyer. one that had its own zest. In other remote control car is especially nifty) Spielberg's use of Morgan words. I didn't feel like I had gone to and the obligatory opening action Freeman (his character is the same movie seven times. So here, in sequence coupled with the romance. unnecessary to the story) no particular order. are my thoughts. This installment gives us a more "mod­seems to be cnntered morn ern" villain, in Jonathan Pryce as a on his more sc:reen pres­media-crazed nut-job who want to ence, rathnr than on his act­control the world's media ing ability. And Anthony resources. Pryce plays his villain Hopkins' portrayal of' John as if he were a David Lettermen Quincy Adams, however. sadist. But like in "Goldeneye," the steals the show when he. big-scale action is only mildly gets to make his 11-minute entertaining and it takes up most delivery to tho Supreme of the second half of the movie. tive usc of the central character as a Court. His interaction with the slaves After leaving the theater, I kept medium to understanding Robin gives us more insight to the character thinking to myself that tomorrow's Williams' character as a psychologist of John Quincy Adams than any history Bond may be best off dead. who may have more in common with book could ever convny. There ar11 Will than might be initially obvious. some truly magnificent moments in AS GOOD AS IT GETS This is a great film. Enough said. "Amistad," but they are downplaynd by But Jack Nicholson is as lively as some curiously u1wmotional perfor­
ever. In "As Good As It Gets," he WAG THE DOG mances and an unnncessary mnphasis develops such a naughtily likable So far you may be thinking to yourself on the law, rather than on tho humani­character that Wfl grin at ourselves that a holiday season with such sup­ty of the slavns. for grinning at him. Nicholson has posed diversity seems to be filled with a full history of playing these character studies and human comedies. TITANIC _ types, and we have always gotten Well, hold that thought. In "Wag the So if you didn't get your "emotional the sense that he is enjoying the Dog," Barry Levinson gives us a performance" fix from "Amistad," you acting as much as we are enjoying wickedly funny satire of the political can get more than your f"ill with the spectacle. But in this film, we process. Both Robert DeNiro and "Titanic." In fact, it is amazing to wit­have the addition of Helen Ilunt Dustin Hoffman seem at home in their ness the movie's ability to intertwine and Greg Kinnear who do so much respective roles of a political Mr. Fixit the great story of the sinking of the to add to Nicholson's humanity. and a Hollywood producer. We see Titanic and a romance that could have Both Ilunt and Kinnear have such another side of sereenwriting here, in very well dew1loped in such a casll. So a relaxed sereen presence, and we which the quality does not depend on in "Titanic," wn not only gnt the spedal don't feel as if Nicholson is stealing the "realism" of the words, but more on effects (and, just l'or the record. tlwy the show -as we may be expect­the context, anticipation, and quickness are truly breathtaking), but also a con­ing. "As Good As it Gets" has been of humor. And certainly one of the vincing romance. And it is through this accused of being little more than a film's remarkable qualities lies in its romance -through the clash of sitcom, but those who make such ability to use satirical humor as a Leonardo DiCaprio's world of rags and 
JACKIE BHOWN statements are missing the point. Show method of making us reflect on the self-reliance with Kate Winslnt's world 
Quentin Tarantino came out with his me a sitcom that can compare with the serious undertones. Most movies of money and unbridled pretentious­much anticipated "Jackie Brown" with humanity in James L. Brooks' script wouldn't be brave enough to take such ness -that "Titanic" rises above tlw everyone expecting to be shaken in and I'll show you another Kevin a cutting edge to the complexity of our level of a standard disaster l'ilm to a llwir snats. But in the film, we get a Costner, three-hour long ego-trip political system. I suppose it just goes film with social commentary and a morn subdued Tarantino-not empha­(believe me, there won't be any more to show the quality of the film that it is startling metaphorical quality. This is sizing the random, startling violent after his latest). able to do just this without making one of the most moving and emotionally shock effncts. Hather. he is interested humor seem too remote or too forced. charged films that I have nver seen. in shocking us with the extent to which GOOD WILL HUNTING and, yes folks, it docs live up to its we are involved with his characters. In I liked "The Hainmaker" more than AMISTAD hype. It's one heck of a visceral experi­".Jackie Brown," we see the way in most people, it seemed, and perhaps And, of course, it wouldn't be ence. 


I. Titanic 
2. 
Good Will Hunting 

3. 
Fallen 

4. 
As Good As It Gets 

5. 
Hard Rain 

6. 
Half-Baked 

7. 
Wag the Dog 

8. 
Tomorrow Never Dies 

9. 
Mousehunt 

10. 
Amistad 


Source: AP 

I. Face/Off 
2. 
Con Air 

3. 
My Best Friend's Wedding 

4. 
Contact 

5. 
Men In Black 

6. 
Austin Powers: International Man of Mystery 

7. 
Spawn 

8. 
Speed 2: Cruise Control 

9. 
The Fifth Element I0. Romy & Michelle's High School Reunion 


Source: Billboard Online 

Monday, January 19, 1998 
page 13 


The Boxer 

Directed by Jim Sheridan Starring Daniel Day-Lewis and Emily Watson 
. 
. ) . ) . ) '}) 
.J~j ..J'S. j -''S.j j~'{) 
(out of five shamrocks) 

By JOHN BARRY Accent Movie Critic 
Tlw most recent motif in my life seems to be "Self­inllictml pain." I take classes whose goals are "to cre­ate. ulcers and aneurysms in engineering students belore they can legally drink" (really, this is state_d directly in the syllabus for each of my classes this semester). and my night-time brain is constantly telling itself things like "Hey, stay up a little later, you wo1~'t .roe! it tomorrow" even though my morning bram IS constantly plotting ways to punish my night­brain. Hemaining consistent with this theme, I decid­ed to tell my editor, "IIey, I'll review "The Boxer!" As ~ was saying this, .my every instinct was just scream­mg at me how dumb I was to pick this movie. I saw an unhealthy number of movies over break, and I could have simply written a nice little article about how groat "Titanic" is or how pathetic "American Wnrewolf In Paris" is (even though I didn't see it, I can't imagine that. anybody would ever need to read such an article, so I figure I could get away with it). 
But nooooooo. I had to go and pick a movie that was hard to follow and even harder to write on, due to a complicated setting and sometimes unintelligible Irish accents. 
But I'm not bitter or anything. I can handle this challenge, right? So let's just dive right in with a little attempted plot summary. 
"The Boxer" is an effective portrayal of the heart­breaking problems in Ireland. Daniel Day-Lewis plays Danny Flynn, a 32-year-old boxer involved with the IR~ who is finally granted his freedom from a 14-year pnson sentence. He becomes a free man without resentment, only to find that the same old problems exist, if not worse problems. Danny gets back into boxing with a nonsectarian gym where Catholics and Protestants both cheer on the boxing matches. Many of his fellow Irishmen don't like this move, as his min­gling with the Protestant cops belittles other POWs' sacrifices. The plot thickens when we learn that Danny lost more then his freedom when he was thrown in jail -he also lost Maggie (Emily Watson), the girl he was going to marry. Maggie has since mar­:i~d, to Danny's best friend, who is now indefinitely in Jatl, and her son fears that Danny is going to steal his mom away. Meanwhile, the IRA is afraid that Danny is endangering the urgency of the peace talks, and poor old Danny just wants to find peace in the love he lost when he was dragged into violence at ayoung age. 
Confused? If anything, this film is a great motivator to DART into an Irish History class (you might consid­er it a pre-requisite for "The Boxer.") 
I know that there must be a lot of eager questions out there in Observer reader-land, so I'll implement the user-friendly Q&A format (which stands for, fol­low me closely on this one, "Question and Answer"). 
Q. What's the overall point here, movie guy? 
A. Overall. this is an outstanding film about love, war, and the desperate need for peace in Ireland. 
Q. How was the acting? 
A. Incredible. Jot down the names of Daniel Day­Lewis and Emily Watson for Oscar nominations. 
Q. How does it compare to other films which have dealt with the IRA, such as "Michael Collins" and "In the Name of the Father"? 
A. Not quite as good. Both of those films are defi­nitely Five Shamrock movies. "The Boxer" has a few problems. The beginning is really, really slow. You'll JUSt want to grab Danny and scream "SAY SOME­THING, OR CUT TO A NEW SCENE!!!" 
Q. How was the cinematography in "The Boxer?" 
A. Very impressive. In one scene where a massive riot ensues following a car bombing, the audience really feels the panic, anger and chaos of the situa­tion as conveyed by the frantic camera work. 
Q. So was that the best shot? 
A. No way. The best filming, which is deserving of an Oscar, was one of an up-close pouring of Guinness. Everyone drooled. 
Q. You're obsessed! I think you've mentioned Guinness in every one of your articles. Do your par­ents know about this? 
A. Hmm, maybe I shouldn't send this article home to the folks. Thanks for the tip. 
Q. Did they sing "Danny Boy?" 
A. Of course. (I'm not sure if The Observer will let me print emoticons, otherwise I would have respond­ed "Of course :-)" so that you would know that I think this is a good thing.) 
Q. Would you recommend this movie to everyone on campus? 
A. You bet. This is definitely an excellent movie. The news media have lost interest in Ireland, and we really don't. have a clue (for the most part) as to just how bad thmgs realfy are. This movie is a great mod­ern day reminder: things aren't so lucky for the real fighting Irish. 
.... 


page 14 The Observer· SPORTS Monday, January 19, 1998 


Elway in the midst of 
Shanahan stands behind Broncos' reduced workout Super Bowl spotlight 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO 
Barely two hours after arriving in San Diego for the Super Bowl, Denver Broncos coach Mike Shanahan was on the defensive. 
At a Sunday night press conference, Shanahan defended his practice schedule this week. While the Green Hay Packers apparently will practice every day, the Broncos will have a brief, one-hour workout on Monday. then take Tuesday off. 

"We'll go through a nor-Elway mal preparation week, just like we do during the regular season," Shanahan said. "We come in onMonday. The only difference is, since we didn't have a game on Sunday, we'll practice for about an hour on Monday. We'll go about 25 plays on both offense and defense. We'll go over our two-minute offense. 
"Tuesday will be off. just like it normally is during the season. And our Wednesday, Thursday and Friday practices will be just like we normally do. We'll keep the same format we had all season. It seemed to work for us." 
Shanahan said the reduced workout schedule was possible because his team had "three excellent practices" last week, dur­ing whieh the game plan was installed. 
At mid-afternoon, with about 100 cheer­ing fans and the Barrelman greeting them, the Broncos arrived in San Diego, one week in advance of their Super Bowl matchup with tlw Packers. 
The Broncos' charter touched down at San Diego International Airport at 3:45 p.m. PST and came to a stop about 100 yards from a Green Bay charter which had landed 45 minutes earlier. 

Players acknowledged cheers as they left 
the United aircraft and immediately board­
ed four buses, which whisked them to their 
hotel in suburban La Jolla. 
The Barrelman, the Broncos' unofficial 
mascot who appears at Denver games wear­
ing an orange barrel, suspenders, cowboy 
hat, boots and little else, will perform at the 
Super Bowl because a Denver newspaper 
purchased a ticket for him. 
Shanahan later addressed the media at 
the team hotel, and six players -John 
Elway, Terrell Davis, Neil Smith, Tyrone 
Braxton, Ray Crockett and Rod Smith ­
also held informal 
interviews. 
"It's great to be here, great to be part of 
this Super Bowl,"Shanahan said. "This is 
the pinnacle of what we've been working 
for. We'll try to approach it like any other 
playoff 
game." 
Elway, who might be playing in his final 
game at age 37, said he was "not sure I 
buy" the contention that he is a sentimental 
favorite to win the Super Bowl after three 
failures. 
"The only time I hear that is when I get 
asked about it," he said. "The last two 
weeks, playing in Kansas City and 
Pittsburgh, I haven't felt like the emotional 
favorite. I wasn't exactly welcomed in both 
places." 
Asked how it felt to be viewed as a senti­
mental favorite, Elway said, "It beats being 
considered a spoiled California brat, which 
is how everybody looked at me when I first 
came into the league." 
Elway said winning two straight road ·games in the playoffs "really added confi­
dence to our team. We won two tough road 
games against two great football teams in 
tough places to play. So I think it's made us 
mentally tough and a better football team." 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO Even Brett Favre knows this is John Elway's week. 
"It's great for John. I know he wants to win one bad," says Green Bay's three-time MVP quarterback, the Elway of the '90s. "If we were to lose, what better guy to lose to than John Elway." 
Super Bowl week began Sunday, seven days before the Packers and Elway's Broncos play for the NFL title on the same where 10 years ago Elway was subjected to one of his three Super Bowl nightmares -a 42­10 loss to Washington. 
In some ways, that game was the defining moment of Elway's 0-3 Super Howl career. 
He had lost the year before to Lawrence Taylor, Phil Simms and the New York Giants. He lost two years later to Joe Montana, Jerry Rice, Ronnie Lott and the San Francisco 49ers. 
But these were Joe Gibbs'· star­less Redskins who beat the Broncos on the turf of what was then Jack Murphy Stadium ­those were the days before high­tech companies bought naming rights to football fields. This week it will be "Jack Murphy Field" at Qualcomm Stadium. 
And this was one of two times in the NFC's 13-year Super Bowl winning streak in which an AFC team was favored -by 3 points in the closing line. 
So all the Redskins did was break the Super Bowl record for breaking records. 
Doug Williams, who recently took over for Eddie Robinson as the coach at Grambling, was the first black quarterback to start a Super Bowl. He spent the week attempting to answer questions like, "!low long have you been a black quarterback'? " He then fin­ished it by throwing for 340 yards and four TDs -both records broken two years later by Montana against Elway's Broncos. 
Timmy Smith, unknown before the game, ran for a record 204 yards -that one still stands ­then dropped back into obscurity. And Ricky Sanders caught 193 yards worth of passes, a record that lasted only until Riee got 215 a year later against Cincinnati. 
The stars of that team? Probably the offensive line ­"the Hogs," who won three Super Bowls with three different quar­terbacks in Gibbs' time there. 
Elway eould only stand and watch during that game as the Washington offense zoomed toward the end zone, scoring 35 points in 13 minutes during the second quarter -another record, of course. 
"Nineteen plays and 35 points from a guy who wasn't even in the league two years later," Elway says of Williams, who retired prematurely because of injuries. "That's kind of mind­boggling. 
This week, it's Elway who will try to boggle the Packers' minds as he tries to avoid tying Buffalo's .Jim Kelly for the worst record by a starting quartnrback in a Super Howl-0-4. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 314 LaFortune and from 12 p.m. to 3 p.m. at 309 Haggar College Center. Deadline for next-day clas­
sifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Classifieds 
NOTICES 
"Don't Get Burned on Spring Break" Spring Break Packages are going fast. Stop in at Anthony Travel's new location and check out the best Spring Break vacations around. Don't take a chance with an unkown agency or some 1-800 number. Limited space available, so book now! Anthony Travel, Inc. Lafortune Student Center 631-7080 
Spring Break '98 Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas & Florida. Group Discounts & Free Drink Parties! Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! 1-800-234-7007 www.endlesssummertours.com 
••• ACT NOW! LAST CHANCE TO RESERVE YOUR SPOT FOR SPRING BREAK. GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR 6 OR MORE. 
LEISURE TOURS HAS PACKAGES WITH DIRECT FLIGHT FROM SOUTH BEND TO SOUTH PADRE ISLAND. 1-800-838-8203. WWW.LEISURETOURS.COM 
Long Dis. Call for 19c/min 24 hr For a FREE rechargable card send stamped envelope to Box 
,681, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
ILOST & FOUND I 
Missing: WRISTWATCH lost just before semester's end Fossil -leather band/white face Please call Nicole @ 0565 
Lost: Gold and silver wrist­watch. Huge sentimental value. If found call Becky x4215. 
WANTED 
Wanted: Serious Rock/ Pop Drummer for live shows. We are currently publishing a CD and intend to promote it in the Chicago area. Call Mike at 634-0789 
Aide to assist dyslexic 
student with reading and 
notetaking at Clay Middle 
School. 10:15-12:45, M-F, Jan 26-June 8; $6.00/hr 
No degree required. Call Asst Prin Vicky Thomas, 243-7145. 

VOLUNTEERS NEEDED The Early Childhood Development Center, located at Saint Mary's College and the University of Notre Dame, is looking for volunteers who enjoy young children. If you would be interested in spend­ing 2 hours a week reading children's books, building with blocks, and singing songs with chlidren, please call Thayer Kramer at 631-3344 (ECDC-ND) or Cindy Hestad at 284-4693 (ECDC-SMC). Please join our fun filled days. 
1998 STORYBOOK FESTIVAL VOLUNTEERS NEEDED Saint Mary's College and the Early Childhood Development Center are co-sponsoring a Storybook Festival for young children (ages 2.5-6) on Sunday, February 8, 1998. The Storybook_Festival wil~cele­brate books and the worlds· they create by bringing children inside those worlds through a variety of art, music, movement and creative dramatic activities. Volunteers are needed to assist on the afternoon of Saturday, February 7 with set­up and on Sunday, February 8 during the afternoon and evening as greeters, storyroom volunteers, and to help with event clean-up. There will be a meeting for everyone interest­ed in volunteering (faculty, staff, students, and community members) on Tuesday, January 20, 1998 from 5:30­
6:30 at the Haggar College Center Parlor, Saint Mary's College. For more information, please call the Saint Mary's College Public Relations Office at 284-4595 or the Early Childhood Development Center at 631-3344 or 284-4693. Please join us for this wonder­ful, enriching event which pro­motes literacy and the love of reading! 
ADVERSTISING SALES INTERNSHIP University Directories is hiring students to sell yellow page advertising for the official cam­pus telephone directory this summer. Commission based pay structure. Training pro­gram. Excellent sales & mar­keting experience. Call 1-800­7 43-5556 Ext. 143 or visit www.universitydirectories.com 
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNI­TY -Models needed for figure drawing classes in the art department. Please call: 631­7602. 
FOR RENT 
WALK TO CAMPUS 2-5 BEDROOM HOMES $195/PERSON 232-2595 FURNITURE for rent I sale call Dave @ 4-3006 
House for Rent 
Two Blocks from Campus 4-5 Bedroom. Available June 98 for Summer, August for Fall. Includes Dishwasher, Washer/Dryer, Large Backyard and off-street Parking. 
MONITORED SECURITY SYSTEM INCLUDED!!! Call 289-4712 
1 Bed room furnished apt in a home in good residential area. 10 mins from NO. Share kitchen. Security system. No smoking,drinking or party­ing. Postgrad student or faculty only. $ 400 per month. Security deposit $250, References required. Call277-0189 after 3.30 pm 
2 Bedroom 2nd Floor Apt. $450/ mth. Short term 6 mth. lease. View of St. Joe river from 2nd Fir. porch. 1906 historic home, security system, walk-in clos­ets, storage, off-street parking. Gas, electric, phone, and cable by tenant. Call Greg @ 288­2654 
ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR FOOTBALL WEEKENDS AND OTHER ND-SMC EVENTS. 
VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS­5 MIN. DRIVE OR 15-20 MIN. WALK. 243-0658. 
8 BEDROOM HOME FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
3-4 BEDROOM HOMES FOR NEXT SCHOOL YEAR 2773097 
2 BEDRM HOUSE FOR RENT GRANGER -WASHER, DRYER, REFRIG & STOVE. $695 MONTH PLUS SECURI­TY CALL BOB 232-6434 
FOR SALE 

Compaq Notebook, 20 meg. RAM, Color monitor includes carrying case, manual, etc. Call Greg @288-2654 
PlayStation+NHL+NFL+NBA =100$ mike 251-0820 
75 mhz pentium PC w/ monitor, 16MB RAM, Win 95, 1 GB hard drive, 4x CD Rom $750 David 243-4761 
Brass bed, queen size with deluxe orthpedic Mattress set and Frame. New, never used, still in plastic. $250.00 219­862-2082 
For Sale: Convenient Condo living just a few blocks from Notre Dame. 3 bdrms., 2 full baths and access to clubhouse with pool and work out room. Corner unit with Contemporary flair. Call Trace Cole at 243­9565 for more info. 
TICKETS 

WANTED-NO vs MIAMI B­Ball tix on 2/22. Lower arena. 258-1111 
PERSONAL 
is this campus so impersonal that no one writes personals. what a sad, sad say it is for jon 
no I did not get beat up, but thanks for asking. i'm glad to know that people still read these 
dr. chandler, did you tell our new teacher about his daily assignment? he did it on his own yesterday though: are you used to this? i'll start out the way the book does it and then generally phase in the way everyone else does. I hope that won't confuse you. 
I refuse to yell, even if it makes you feel beter 
vector plots.... there sort of like a new ice cream. you try it out, and gradually you begin to like the taste. 
Student Activities is accepting applications for LaFortune Building Managers (evening &weekend shifts). 
Also accepting applications for Information Desk Attendants. (Must be able to work a 10-2pm shift on Thursdays.) 
If interested apply at 315 LaFortune. 
spherical coordinates, yeah ... they're like the big daddy of the coordinate systems 
I like dice especially the red ones with the white dots. 

-------------------------------------------------------~----·~ 
Monday, January 19, 1998 The Observer· SPORTS page 15 
•NBA 
Bird celebrates homecoming 
Associated Press 
BOSTON 

The Boston Celtics saw what a winning basketball team looks like on Sunday -not Larry Bircl's three-time NBA champions of the 1980s, but the Indiana Pacers he now coaches. 
With the Celtics' "Big Three" of Bird, Robert Parish and Kevin McHale looking on, Rik Smits scored 25 points to lead the Eastern Conference-leading Pacers to a 103-96 victory over Boston. 
The Celtics retired Parish's No. 00 at halftime, picking this game so Bird could be present. But No. 33, taking the parquet rtoor for the first time with another team, stole the spot­light from his former teammate -first just by showing up, and then by coaching his team to victory. 
.Iaten Rose came off the 
bench with 20 points, Dale 
Davis added nine rebounds and Mark Jackson had 13 assists as Indiana won its fifth cons~cu­tive game. 
Ron Mercer scored 21 for Boston and Antoine Walker had 16 for Boston. Walker was 5­for-18 shooting, but scored eight in a row in the fourth quarter as the Celtics rallied to tie it 93-93 with 2:18 left. 
After Walker's three-point play cut the lead to two with 
3:26 to play, Indiana's Reggie Miller, who scored 20, hit two free throws and Chauncey Billups made a reverse layup to make it 93-91. Smits was called for a loose ball foul, allowing Andrew DeClercq to make it 93-93 on two free throws. 
Rose made one of two free throws and then, after Walker missed, Miller hit a 3-pointer to make it 97-93 with 1:23 left. Walker missed again, Smits got the rebound and then Miller made a layup to ice it. 
Bird played 13 years for the Celtics, won three NBA titles and had his No. 33 retired by the team on Feb. 4, 1993. But the self-proclaimed "Hick from French Lick" took over the hometown Pacers last spring even though the Celtics' job was open, saying he didn't want to tarnish his image in Boston with a potentially unpleasant rebuilding effort. 
His decision has done nothing to affect his stature in Boston. Bird received a standing ova­tion when he came onto the floor before the game, another when he was introduced and another after a reel of his high­lights was shown on the score­board. 
But Bird was just one of the former Celtics greats popping 
into  the  Fleet  Center  on  
Sunday.  
McHale,  who  drew  a  big  

cheer of his own when he crossed the arena floor during the first half, presented Parish with a framed jersey during the halftime ceremony. Team patriarch Red Auerbach also took part in the festivities. 
Robinson .rocks Milwaukee 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE 

David Robinson had 30 points and 11 rebounds, and Tim Duncan had 20 points and 15 rebounds as the San Antonio Spurs beat the Milwaukee Bucks 98-92 in overtime night. 
The Spurs scored the first eight points in overtime to win their firth straight and 17th of their last 19. It wa6 San Antonio's first OT win of the season after three losses. 

The Bucks, who lost the last two games of their homestand after winning the first three, were led by Terrell Brandon with 19 points. Armon Gilliam and Ray Allen each had 16 for Milwaukee. 
Milwaukee's Glenn Robinson, the league's third-leading scorer with a 23-point average, missed the game with the flu. 
San Antonio started the over­time with an 8-0 run that included a 3-pointer and free throw by Jaren Jackson, and baskets by Avery Johnson and Duncan. The spurt gave the Spurs a 91-83 lead with 3:28 left. 
Ray Allen ended Milwaukee's drought by hitting a 3-pointer with 1:39 remaining to cut the deficit to 91-86. But Johnson made five six free throws in the final 37.6 seconds to clinch the victory for San Antonio. 
Brandon, who fouled out in the extra period, made a 3­pointer to tie the game with 
19.6 seconds left in regulation. The Bucks led 76-69 with 5:43 left in the fourth quarter but David Robinson, who scored 13 points in the period, led a Spurs' comeback. Robinson made a pair of free throws with 26.8 seconds left to put the Spurs on top 83-81. 
Duncan scored seven points in a 12-2 run that pulled the Spurs within 51-45 midway through the third period. But the Bucks offense came alive and Milwaukee took a 66-58 lead into the final period, with Allen scoring the final basket of the quarter on a jumper. 
A free throw by Robinson pulled the Spurs within 25-22 early in the third period. But Brandon and Ricky Pierce scored back-to-hack baskets and San Antonio never got that close again in the first half. 

Did you know the toucan is one of many animals inhabiting our rainforests? "Follow your nose"™and help adopt an acre of my precious homeland by consuming selected f~~ product. 
Kellogg Company challenges university students to join Toucan SamrM in the crusade to save our tropical rainforests. For every case of selected f~~product that 
ND Food Services purchases from Jan. 11 -March 7. Kellogg will donate $1.25 per case to The Nature Conservancy's®Adopt An Acre® Program. A $35.00 donation to the program is required to adopt one acre of rainforest land. 
To flnd out more about the rainforest, visit me at www.toucansam. com 

Gretzky sets record in Olympic preview 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER 
Statement game for the Olympics? Hardly. It was yet another high-flying, defense­optional NHL All-Star show. 
Keith Tkachuk scored twice · and Wayne Gretzky had two assists to become the leading scorer in All-Star history Sunday as North America ral­lied for a 8-7 victory over the World team. 
The World's Teemu Selanne was named MVP, becoming the first European player to regis­ter an All-Star hat trick, as the teams combined for 15 or more goals for the seventh time in the 1990s. 
In just a few weeks, 36 of the 46 participants -18 on each roster -will head to Nagano, Japan, for the first Olympics ever to include NHL players. The league will take a 16-day break, beginning Feb. 8. 
Several players thought the change from an East-West for­mat to North America-World would make for a more defense-minded, tighter-check­ing game. The United States and Canada, favored to win the gold medal, would try to send a message to the stars from Europe. 
That notion, however, was quickly put to rest as the World set a record for fastest three goals at the start of an All-Star game by one team -three in four minutes, including two by Selanne. 
The North Americans came back and took control, going up 8-5 as Mark Messier celebrated his 37th birthday with a goal on an assist by old buddy Gretzky with 16 minutes left. Goals by Igor Kravchuk and Igor Larionov made things interest­ing but the Canada-United States team held on. 
Gretzky, appearing in a record 17th consecutive All­Star game, passed Mario Lemieux to become the all-time scorer in the event with 22 points. 
Twelve of the last 14 All-Star games have produced double­digit goal totals after that hap­pened only four times in the first 37 years. 
Patrick Roy, one of the top goaltenders ever, allowed three first-period goals to become the most scored-upon man in All­Star history. The three-time Vezina Trophy winner has given up 24 goals in All-Star competition, two more than Glenn Hall, and has a career 
7.58 goals-against average in the event. 
Though the game was a 
nightmare for goalies, as usual, 
it was a pleasant departure for 
the goal-starved league. 
At the break, NHL games are 
averaging 5.28 goals-on pace 
for the lowest-scoring season in 
42 years. Theories for the 
downturn abound, from 
improved goaltending to bigger 
goalie pads to defensive-orient­
ed systems to a dearth of gifted 
scorers due to expansion. 
The league is talking about 
possible rule changes, including 
eliminating the red line, pro­
hibiting goaltenders from han­
dling the puck out of the 
crease, reducing the size of 
goalie pads and letting power 
plays run a full 2 minutes even 
if a goal is scored. 
But while scoring has steadily decreased, offense has boomed in the All-Star game. In the · 1990s, the average All-Star game has produced 16.5 goals. Since 1983, the norm has been 
14.2. 
After anthem singer Bryan 
Adams, a Vancouver native, 
messed up "0, Canada" ­
despite having the words print­
ed in front of him -the 
tighter-checking game some 
anticipated due to the format 
change never materialized. 
The World beat Roy on three 
of its first five shots, with 
Selanne sandwiching a goal by 
Jaromir Jagr. North America 
rallied, outshooting the World 
13-2 the rest of the period and 
beating Dominik Hasek three 
times to tie. John LeClair, 
Tkachuk and Scott 
Niedermayer scored from 
point-blank range with little 
defensive {)pposition. 
Finland, which finished third in the 1994 Olympics, isn't expected to win a medal in Nagano. But the Finns were well-represented Sunday, with Selanne, Jari Kurri, Saku Koivu and Jere Lehtinen combining for four goals and six assists. 

Campus Bible Study Returns All are invited to attend Second Semester Bible Study Tuesday, January 20, 7pm Badin Hall Campus Ministry Conference Room. 
Questions? Contact Father AI D'Alonzo a~ 1-5242 
BRING YouR OwN BIBLE OR ONE WILL BE AVAILABLE REFRESHMENTS PROVIDED 

(Z\MPUSMINISTRY 



page 16 The Observer • SPORTS 
• PGA 
Couples captures Classic 
Golfer overcomes personal adversity to capture playoff 
Associated Press 
BERMUDA DUNES 

Fred Couples, who has known eonsiderabln physieal and mental pain over the last four years. is a winner again on tlw golf' eourse. 
Putting aside the pain of an arthritie baek and the stress of two recent personal tragedies, Couples beat Bruce l.intzke in a playoff Sunday at the Bob Hope Chrysler Classic:. It was his first victory in nnarly two years. 
Couples, one of the most popular players on the PGA Tour both with fans and with his fellow pros, birdied the l Hth hole to eatr.h Lietzke in regulation. lie birdied it again 20 minutes later to win on the first playoff' hole. 
The two had finished 90 holes at 28-under par. Lietzke lost his one-shot lead 

McDyess, Suns too hot for Heat 
A<Sociarcd Press 
PIIOENIX 

/\ntonio MeDyess seored 20 points and Jason Kidd just missnd a triple-double as the l'honnix Suns beat the Miami llnat 96-H7 Sunday night. 
Kidd had nine points, 13 assists and 10 rebounds, falling one point short of his third triplc~-douBie in his last 12 gamns. 
Thn Suns built a 25-point lead in the first half and then held off thn Heat, who lost their third 
LATE NIGHT 
OLYMPICS 

Late II 
Fri 


ce Center 
The eleventh annual Late Night Olympics is scheduled for Friday, January 23, 1998. The proceeds from this all-night sports extravaganza go to benefit the St. Joseph County Special Olympics. For more information, contact your hall representative or call RecSports at 1-6100. 
The deadline for entering a team is Monday, January 19. 
Be a real champion, support Special Olympics!! 


Friday, January 23, 199~ • 7:0Q, PM-4:00AM • Joyce Center • 631-6100 
All LNO Medals Were Donated by the Notre Dame Alumni Association All T-Shirts Were Donated by <1:~ 
on the final hole of regulation when he left a 15-foot birdie try high of the cup. 
Couples, who had hit his second shot onto the green of the par-5, 513-yard 18th, tapped in for a 4. 
Andrew Magee, tied with Lietzke for the lead heading into the final round and one shot behind going into the final hole, lipped out a 15­foot birdie try, costing him a spot in the playoff. 
Playing No. 18 again, Couples hit his second shot into the gallery behind the green. got a free drop and snuggled a 30-foot chip shot within 3 feet of the cup. Lietzke, facing another criti­cal 15-foot birdie try, once again left his putt on the high side of the hole. 
Couples knocked his short putt into the center of the cup to win for the first time since The Players Championship in 1996. The Hope was his 13th career victory. 
Couples, who had not led the four-day tournament since briefly during the sec­
ond round. shot a closing 6­under-par 66 as he came from three shots behind Lietzke. 
Lietzke, trying to repeat as champion of a tournament he won 17 years ago, finished with a 69. 
Magee, who led two days and was tied with Lietzke at the top after four rounds, closed with a 70, by two strokes his highest score of the five days. 
David Duval, with a 68, and Steve Jones, with a 69, fin­ished tied for fourth at 25~ under. 
Mark O'Meara, who made an early run with five birdies on the front nine on Sunday before taking a double-bogey on No. 12, finished tied with 1997 PGA rookie of the year Stewart Cink at 24-under. Both shot 69. 
Couples, 38, who has been bothered by his back for the past four years, played just 15 events last year. A tie for fourth at the Mercedes Championships his best fin­ish. 

Hoops 
continued from page 24 
Kaukenas who poured in 17 and 16 points respectively. Notre Dame's Martin lngelsby's solid defense held I Iolloway to 3-for-12 in the first half'. Holloway sunk six straight free­throws down the streteh to help secure the Pirates' victory. 
lngelsby found himselr silenced by the Seton llall defense. lie contributed only three points in 37 minutes of 
INMEMORYOF LUCY BLANDFORD PILKINTON A.B., M.A., PH.D. 27 FEB 1943--19 JAN 1994 


/(interested please contactjenn@ 1-6900 or 4-2237 
play. 
Saturday marks the second ynar in a row that the Irish have come off a strong showing against West Virginia only to fall against Seton Hall. 
"We didn't play as well as we did against Hutgc~rs or as we did against West Virginia," MacLeod said. "There is no excusn there. We just weren't as sharp with our offense." 
The next game for the Irish comes 9 p.m. Wednesday against Syraeuse at the Joyce Center. 

consecutive game for the first time this season. 
Miami closed to 91-87 when Jamal Mashburn, who seored 25 points, hit a short jumper with 1:03 remaining. 
But McDyess, who needed five stitehes to close a cut after get­ting elbowed by Miami's Alonzo Mourning with 9:32 to play, sank throe free throws in the final 
53.8 seconds to elinch the vieto­ry. 
Danny Manning seored 15 points and Hnx Chapman had 13 for the Suns. 
Mourning had 17 points and was 6-for-6 from the field, but played only 19 minutes before fouling out with 7:08 remaining. 
The Heat didn't make a field goal in the final 6:22 of the first quarter after Mashburn's dunk gave them a 14-13 lead. 
Phoenix then went on a 16-0 run to take control. 
In its last 13 possessions of the first quarter, Miami was 0-for-9 from the field, 1-from-4 from the free throw line and had five turnovers -including two 24­seeond shot clock violations. 
---~------------------------------~------------------------------~ 
Monday, January 19, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
• COllEGE BASKETBALL 
Gamecocks avenge last year's conference loss 
A<>ociared Press 
ATHENS, Ga. 

BJ McKie scored 24 points and No. 14 South Carolina held Georgia to only two baskets over the final 9:59 in beating the Bulldogs 68-60 Sunday. 
The Gamecocks (11-3, 3-2 Southeastern Conference) beat the team that a year ago handed them their only SEC loss in the regular sea­son and also defeated them in the league tournament. 
Georgia {8-8, 0-4) has lost its first four SEC games for the first time since 1977. 
After Larry Brown's three-point play gave the Bulldogs a 49-46 lead with 9:59 remaining, Georgia was 2­of-15 the rest of the way -both fol­lowing up missed shots. Jumaine Jones had a tip with 5:26 remaining and Ray Harrison put in a meaning­less basket with three seconds left. 
South Carolina shot only 20-of-48 (42 percent) but won the game with free-throw shooting and rebounding. McKie was 5-of-15 from the field, pil­ing up his points by making 11 of 13 free throws. lie hit four in a row over the final 19 seconds to seal the victo-ry. . 

Two free throws by Brown pulled Georgia within 58-57 with five min­utes left, then both teams struggled at the offensive end the rest of the way. William Gallman hit a short bank shot with 3:28 to go -South Carolina's final basket. 
After Jones hit one free throw to cut the gap to 60-58, the Gamecocks held the ball for more than a minute by gobbling up two straight offensive rebounds. Finally, Melvin Watson was fouled and hit one free throw. 
Georgia's Michael Chadwick missed a 3 and Gallman added another free throw, pushing the lead to 62-58. Harrison missed from beyond the 3­point arc and the Bulldogs squan­dered their final chance when G.G. Smith dribbled the ball off his foot. McKie picked up the turnover and drove the length of the court, drawing an intentional foul from Brown with 19 seconds to go. 
McKie made both free throws, South Carolina retained possession and McKie was fouled again, hitting both free throws to give the Gamecocks a 66-58 lead. 
WANT TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE IN THE LIFE OF A CHILD THIS SUMMER? 
COME FOR A JOB INTERVIEW TO WORK AT: 
CAMP SWEENEY 
A RESIDENTIAL SPORTS CAMP IN NORTH TEXAS FOR CHILDREN WITH DIABETES 
INTERVIEWS FRIDAY. JANUARY 23rd FROM 9:00AM to 5:00 PM IN THE LIBRARY FOYER 
Camp Sweeney is an equal opportunity employer. 

• COLlEGE BASKETBALL 
Minnesota extends losing streak to five against Iowa 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS 
Ryan Bowen scored 19 points and No. 13 Iowa shot 69 percent after falling behind 17-2 to beat reeling Minnesota 82-69 Sunday. 
Dean Oliver and J.R. Koch each scored 13 points for the Hawkeyes (15-2, 4-1 Big Ten), who have won nine of 10 and are off to their best start since opening 18-0 in 1986-87, coach Tom Davis' first sea­son. 
Sam Jacobson led Minnesota (7-9, 0-5) with 24 points in his return after missing three gaines with a back injury. But nei­ther the return of their leading scorer nor the early 15-point lead were enough to keep the defending Big Ten champions from matching their worst conference start since the 1970-71 team lost its first six games. 
The Golden Gophers also have lost five straight overall, their longest losing streak since a seven-game slide in 1990­
91. 

Quincy Lewis scored 10 points for Minnesota and backup guard Kevin Clark had 12, all in the first half. 
Iowa shot 58 percent for the game after missing eight of its first nine shots. 
As usual, the Hawkeyes were deadly from 3-point range after their cold start. They came in shooting 42.3 percent from that distance, the best in the Big Ten, and finished 7-for-11 after missing their first three 3-point attempts. 
Darryl Moore had 12 points and 10 rebounds for Iowa. 
Minnesota, the worst 3-point shooting team in the conference at 28.3 percent, was 5-for-20 Sunday. 
The Gophers got a quick lift from hav­ing Jacobson back, taking the 17-2 lead after seven minutes. Jacobson had four points, including a breakaway dunk, an assist and a blocked shot in the early run. 
But the Hawkeyes got five straight points on consecutive alley-oop baskets by Bowen -the second a three-point play -to start their comeback. 
They hit nine straight shots over the next 7:48, taking their first lead at 31-29 with 4:04 left in the first half when Oliver and Koch hit consecutive 3-pointers. 
Minnesota clung to a 36-35 halftime lead when Eric Harris made two free throws with no time left, and its lead was 41-37 when Jacobson hit a 3-pointer early in the second half. 

Interested in Helping Make Junior Parents W...eekend '98 a Success? 
join the Sophomore ]PW Committee! 
Questions? Call Sarah,at 4-0830 
1st Meeting of the Semester 
All Students & Faculty Welcome 
Tuesday january 20th @ 8:00PM 
2nd Floor LaFortune Elevator lounge 

....
---------------------------------~-----------------~ ----------­
page 18 The Observer· COLLEGE BASKETBALL Monday, January 19, 1998 
Indiana upsets No. 9 Purdue 
Associated Press Miller then hit another 3-free throws by Guyton. Purdue 
pointer and Alan Eldridge hit kept taking the ball inside, 
BI.OOMINGTON, Ind. two free throws that made it however, to the 6-foot-11 
Indiana's embarrassing los­90-86. Miller, who was repeatedlying streak to Purdue was put Purdue got the ball back fouled and made six straight to rest Sunday by a freshman. after an Indiana turnover, but free throws in the first half. 
Luke Hecker had career Brian Cardinal was called for Miller's final free throws of highs of 27 points and 12 an offensive foul, and Gladness the half pulled the n~bounds as the Hoosiers scored on a dunk. Cornell, who Boilermakers within 36-34, pulled away in the second half led Purdue with 27 points, got then a fast-break dunk by 
and beat the ninth-ranked the final Boilermakers basket Eldridge tied the game for the Boilermakers 94-88. before Reeker hit two more first time. There was one more William Gladness and A.J. free throws in the final sec­tie, but Eldridge missed one of 
Guyton each added 21 points onds. two free throws in the final as Indiana (13-5, 4-2 Big Ten) Miller finished with 18 points minute and Indiana led 40-39 ended the Boilermakers' four­and 15 rebounds, while Chad at halftime. game winning streak in the Austin, Purdue's leading scor­Baskets by Miller and Cornell intrastate series, the longest in er for the season, was held to gave Purdue a 43-40 lead Gene Keady's 18 years as 11. Austin beat Indiana with early in the second half. coach at Purdue. an off-balance, 15-footer with Gladness scored Indiana's first 
Purdue (15-4, 3-2) fell less than a second to go last seven points of the half, how­behind by 16 points midway year and with a 3-pointer with ever, including a basket on a through the second half but 14 seconds left two years ago. goaltending call that put the rallied in the closing minutes He was scoreless the first six Hoosiers ahead for good.behind Jaraan Cornell, whose minutes Sunday as Indiana Indiana matched its biggest two 3-pointers helped bring built an early lead. Indiana's lead at 7 5-59 on a fast-break the Boilermakers within 90-81 biggest lead in the first half dunk by Guyton midwaywith three minutes to go. Brad was 29-20 after four straight through the second half. 
Janulis back in foriD, OrangeiDen win big 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. 

Marius Janulis broke out of a one-game shooting drought by hitting four 3-pointers in the first half Sunday and No. 15 Syracuse went on to overwhelm Miami 85-67. 
Todd Burgan added a season­high 26 points for Syracuse (15­2, 5-1 Big East). 
Janulis did not have a 3­pointer in Syracuse's 76-64 home loss to Providence on Wednesday, the first time he had been shut out from long range in 33 games. But his 3­pointer with 8:27 to play in the first half Sunday put Syracuse ahead for good at 27-25 and it started a 19-2 run for the Orangemen over the remainder of the half. 
The Syracuse defense had as much to do with the decisive run as the offense. Miami (12-4, 5-3) didn't score over the last 
6:27 of the half' and in one three-minute span turned the ball over four times, had Tim James called for an offensive foul and lost the ball a sixth time on a blocked shot by Syracuse center Elan Thomas. 
In the meantime, Jason Hart was hitting two jump shots, Burgan a 3-pointer on a feed from Hart and Thomas had a dunk on a feed from .Janulis. .Janulis hit a 3-pointer-his fourth -with just over a sec­ond to play to push Syracus1)'s lead to 43-27. 
Syracuse outscored Miami 17­6 over the first 7:14 of the sec­ond half to take its biggest lead of the game at 60-33. Substitut11s played liberally for both teams from that point on. 

Wildcats manhandle LobosWest Virginia pulls 
seven wins.Arizona's Mike Bibby The Lobos were allowing an avnrage of
away in overtime 
62.9 points, but Arizona surpassed that in

leads team to eighth the first live minutes of the second half. Associated Press both teams missed several chances 
New Mexico beat the Wildcats 84-77 last to go ahead. 
straight win season in Albuquerque, and Arizona play­VILLANOVA, Pa. The Wildcats had the ball with 
ers talked this week about payback.
Associated Press

Damian Owens scored six of his 14 seconds left. but John 
The Wildcats forced 15 turnovers in the 21 points in overtime and No. 21 Celestand threw it away with 2.8 
first half, got 10 of their 17 offensive

TUCSON, Ariz. 
West Virginia took advantage of to go. The Mountaineers inbound­
rebounds, and ran up a 52-27 halftime

New Mexico's proud defensive numberspoor foul shooting by Villanova for ed the ball to Owens, but he never lead.
hit a snag Sunday. Of course, few teams The Lobos, who set a school and Westerna 79-65 victory Sunday. got a shot off before the buzzer. 
have Arizona's scoring power.
The Mountaineers (15-3, 5-3 Big A layup by Brent Solheim tied Athletic Conference record with 18 :~-point­The fifth-ranked Wildcats badgered No.
East) outscored the Wildcats 12-2 the game at 51, and the 
ers last month against Holy Cross, carne

15 New Mexico into 25 turnovers, outre­ovm the first four minutes of over­Mountaineers went on a 7-2 spurt out firing from the perimeter to start the
bounded the Lobos and nearly matched 
second half.

time to seal the victory. to go ahead 58-53 with 6:11 to go. 
their prolific 3-point shooting in an 89-70Villanova (7-8, 4-3) missed four But Villanova answered with 
The strategy began to eliek -Shields
victory.

foul shots in the extra period and their own 7-2 run, with Allen's made New Mexico's fifth :{-pointer of theMike Bibby had 23 points, six assists and
was 5-for-18 for the game. bank shot tying the game at 60 
half just 5:15 into tlw period, and Long cutlive steals for Arizona (15-3), whieh won itslloward Brown led the Wildcats, with 2:21 to go. 

the deficit to 65-50 when he stole a cross­eighth in a row, while Jason Terry had 21losers of' lhree straight, with 15 Trailing 19-18, the Mountaineers court pass and scored 22 seconds later.

points and Bennett Davison added 15.
points. hit four straight 3-pointers, with 
But Shields picked up his fourth foul withClayton Shields scored 17 points for theWest Virginia shot only 37 per­Jarrod West hitting the first and 12:31 to play, and Olney got his fourth with

Lobos (13-3), while Lamont Long and
cent. but took 83 shots and outre­Greg Jones the others, to take a 9:03 to go.
Royce Olney had 13 each.
bounded Villanova 57-39. The 30-19 lead with 4:09 left in the 
Undeterred, Long made a 3-pointer and a

But Shields, who also had seven
Mountaineers have won 10 of their first half. 
layup to bring New Mexico within 68-56rebounds, missed five minutes in the sec­

last 12 games. Villanova outscored West 
with 8:12 to go.

ond half because of foul trouble, and OlneyAfter Malik Allen tied the game Virginia 10-4 over the final four Shields and Olney were baek on the noorfouled out as the Lobos tried to catch upat 62 with 3:19 to play, West minutes of the first half, but still after a timeout with 7:20 left, and Olney hitafter trailing by as many as 26 points inVirginia went on a 10-0 run. Brian trailed 34-29 at halftime. 
a 3-pointer in the next 21 seconds.
the first half.

L11win, who had 12 rebounds. Before the game, Villanova 
But it was New Mexico's only basket in aTerry had 13 points in nine minutes dur­seorod four points during the retired the No. 30 jersey worn by 

16-5, four-minute surge by Arizona in

ing the first half and eight more in a 3:04
dinehing spurt, and Owens, who the school's career scoring leader, 
whieh Terry hit a baseline jumper, had a 

span of the second to blunt the Lobos'
had II n~bounds, added tliree. Kerry Kittles of the New Jersey 
three-point play and made a 3-pointer.

comeback attempt. It was the second-low­The game stayed tied at 60 for Nets. Kittles scored 2,243 points When it was over, Arizona led 84-61 withest total during Arizona's win streak as thethe final 2:21 of' regulation, as for the Wildcats from 1992-96. 
4:08 remaining.

Wildcats averaged 103.7 points in the first 
(• 
JHelp save the environment. Recycle The Observer.; 

Don't miss your chancel I I 
Summer Service Projects '98 
DEADLINE: January 23rd 
Applications are available at the CSC (Sign up for an interview, tool)  
-8 weeks ofservice-learning -$1700 Tuition Scholarship -3 elective Theology credits  
C E N T E R F 0 R SOCIAL CONCERNS  Questions??? Call Sue ( 1-7867) or Erika ( 4-1494)  

....................................~ ..-.. .....,.. 

-------------------~-----~ 
Monday, January 19, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS page 19 
•NBA • Cou.EGE FooTBALL 
Jordan edges Barkley in win over Houston 
Associated Press 
CI-IICAGO 

Michael Jordan scored 45 points. hitting a pair of key 3­pointers in the final quarter, and the Chicago Bulls over­came a spirited performance by Charles Barkley to beat the Houston Rockets 106-100 Sunday. 
Barkley, jawing, yapping and exchanging barbs with his ·good friend Jordan, scored 35 points -19 over his average -and had 14 rebounds for the Rockets, who have lost 10 of their last 14 games. 
The Hockets played without injured stars Hakeem Olajuwon and Clyde Drexler and then lost guard Mario Elie with 6:54 left in the first half when he strained his left shoulder after colliding under the basket with Scottie Pippen. 
But every time it looked like the Bulls would run away, Houston fought back with determined play from Barkley, who made 11-of-14 field goal attempts. 
Four points by Othella Harrington and Emanual Davis' 3-pointer highlighted an 11-2 fourth-quarter run that got the Rockets within 90-87. 
Jordan then hit a pair of 3­pointers and Scott Burrell added another as Chicago went up 10 with just more than four minutes remaining. 
Matt Bullard's 3-pointer and Barkley's tip closed the lead back to five. After Rodrick Rhodes stole the ball from Jordan, Kevin Willis missed a layup with just over a minute left. Willis then made one of two from the free throw line with 38 seconds remaining to make it 104-100. 
After misses by both teams, Jordan was fouled and hit two free throws with 2.8 seconds remaining to clinch Chicago's 20th victory in 21 games at the United Center this season. 
Jordan's 45 points marked his seventh game of at least 40 points this season. Scottie Pippen added a season-high 23 points in his fifth game since coming off the injured list. 
•s 
~~\\J'NALMEEmz_ 

Monday, January 19th 
South wins bowl with a kick 
Associated Press 
WAILUKU, HAWAII 

Robert Nycz of Arizona State kicked a 47-yard field goal with 2 minutes remaining to rally the South to a 20-19 victory over the North on Sunday in the 52nd annual Hula Bowl. 
The North scored all its points in the second half, rallying from a 10-0 halftime deficit to take a 19-17 lead with 6:43 to play on a 5-yard pass from Penn State receiver Joe Jurevicius to Michigan quarterback Brian Griese. 
Jurevicius took the ball on a reverse from Michigan running back Chris Howard, and found Griese in the right front corner of the end zone. Hofstra kicker Dave Ettinger missed the extra point. 
Griese drove the North into South territory in the fmal min­utes, but two sacks and an incomplete pass ended the comeback. 
The game-winning kick by Nycz capped a nine-play, 55­

yard drive that was led by North Carolina State running back Tremayne Stephens. Stephens ran three times on the drive for 27 yards, and caught a 9-yard pass from North Carolina quar­terback Chris Keldorf. 
Maryland defensive end Eric Ogbogu had four sacks and was named Most Valuable Player for the South. Howard had 14 rush­es for 116 yards, and was MVP for the North. 
The North took the opening kickoff of the second half and drove 69 yards on six plays, with Griese hitting Jurevicius on a 35-yard scoring strike with left in the quarter. 
The North intercepted Nebraska quarterback Scott Frost on the next series, with Wisconsin cornerback LaMar Campbell the pick 25 yards to the South 14. Ettinger's 20-yard field goal tied the game 10-10. 
Frost led the South to its final touchdown on the next series, rushing four times for 42 yards, and scoring on a 7 -yard quar­terback draw with 6:42 in the third quarter. Ettinger 's 26­yarder with five seconds in the quarter made 17-13. 
The South did all the first-half scoring, using a 38-yard scoring pass from UCLA receiver Jim McElroy to Duke receiver Corey Thomas and a 33-yard field goal by Nycz. 
Southern California running back Delon Washington took a handoff and ran left, giving the ball to McElroy on a reverse. McElroy then threw a floater down the left sideline that Thomas leaped up, grabbed and took into the end zone early in the second quarter. 
Nycz's field goal came with 
1:15 left in the first quarter and capped a four-play, 21-yard drive that started on the North 37 after the South punted from its end zone. 
The North missed two field goals in the first half. Ettinger was wide left from 34 yards in the first quarter, and had a 40­yard attempt blocked in the sec­ond quarter by Chris McNeil of North Carolina A&T. 

Kemp returns to bitter fans 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE 

Shawn Kemp expected a hos­tile reception when he returned to the city where he played the first eight years of his NBA career. The five-time All-Star got it. 
Fans threw pies at his like­ness before the game. Fans booed him when he was intro­duced, booed him when he touched the ball and booed him when the public address announcer mentioned his name. 
Kemp didn't get much satis­faction out of the result, either, as the Cleveland Cavaliers lost to the Seattle SuperSonics 99-90 Saturday night. Kemp finished with 17 points and seven rebounds. 
Kemp was hoping to avenge a 1.09-84 loss to Seattle at Cleveland Jan. 8, a game he called the worst of his career. 
There was a circus-like pregame atmosphere surround­ing Kemp's return. One radio station had a location across the street from the arena where fans were encouraged to take turns throwing pies at a card­board likeness of Kemp. That atmosphere carried over into the arena. 
There also were a few signs supporting Kemp. One placard read, "Thank You 4 the dunks." 
Another read, "Thank You Shawn for Giving Us Yin." There were some cheers, but the jeers drowned out those applauding Kemp. Kemp had a shaky first half with one point and three fouls in nine minutes. 
"We felt he was trying to do too much in the first half," Sonics guard Hersey Hawkins said. "He calmed down in the second half." 
Kemp silenced the capacity crowd of 17,07 2 with his sec­ond-half performance. He had a two-handed jam that just beat the shot clock in the third quar­ter and tied the score on three different occasions with baskets in the fourth quarter. 

8:30pm Rolfs Aquatic Center 
Questions? Call Will271-1957 

~ ~lleCJr IVInzes ~ 
"Contemporary Hair Styles 7 Days A Week" 
1181 South Bend Ave. South Bend, IN 4663 7 
(219) 271.. 7674 
Eurotan Tanning Beds Lori is back! 



1998-99 Assistant Rector Applications 
for 
University Residence Facilities Are Now Available 

Completed Applications must be submitted by February 18, 1998. 
For more information, call the Office of Student Affairs at 681-5550 
page 20 The Observer • SPORTS Monday, January 19, 1998 
• SAINT MARY'S BASKETBAll • SAINT MARY'S SWIMMING
.. 
Belles fall short over weekend SMC swimmers 
By SHANNON RYAN 
Sport< Writer 
So far the new year has not btHm especially kind to Saint Mary's basketball team, who lost five eonsecutive games over break. 
The Belles were first derailed OVI)r the weekend at Maryville College in Tennessee where they faeed Maryville and Wilmington College. 
Hoping to add spark to the Belles' 5-5 record. senior guard Darcy Nikns racked up 30 points. 12 of which were beyond llw arc. Nikes' efforts were aecompanied by 15 points from Brenda Hoban and 11 morn from .Julie MeGill. 
Despite the Belles' tenacity. Maryville's Shepherd's 33 points were too much to com­hat. Maryville's 85 percent shooting from the free throw line was also key in the 83-81 vietory over Saint Mary's. 
Unabln to rebound from the loss. the following day the Belles f'ell victim to Wilmington, 84-6(>. Although Saint Mary's had four players in double dig­its, it shot only 31 percent from the Ooor. Wilmington's 50 p!~r­eent suceess rate, including 46 

The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 

The Belles dropped their fourth and fifth straight losses over the weekend. 
Charlotte Albrecht chipped in Gross's three-pointer, Alma 10 points apiece. However, no was able to pull out a 81-70 other team member gained win. more than six in the Belles' 67-The Belles fell to a disap­51loss. pointing 5-10 during break. 
~espite wasting .11 shots on After the five exhausting losses, missed three-pomters, the the Belles are hoping to catch a University of Chicago was still second wind tomorrow at able to take advantage of Saint DePauw University. Mary's 34 percent field goal 
salvage second 
By VICTORIA BUTCKO 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary's swim team (2-4) fell a few strokes behind in its meet against Kalamazoo College last Thursday. The Belles lost 119-90. Despite the loss, Saint Mary's head coach Jini Cook had nothing but positive feedback about her team. 
"The gids swam really tough. I think the team is ready to start slowing down because we've been on such an intensive schedule," said Cook. "The girls came back a week early from Christmas break and swam twice a day. They're really exhausted." 
Besides fatigue, another fac­tor working against the team was its size. Kalamazoo has 19 team members competing, while Saint Mary's just has nine. llighlights from the meet include the team's domination in the 100 and 200 meter free­style events by freshman Colleen Sullivan. Sullivan turned in two s11ason bests with a time of 58:10 in the 100 freestyle and a time of 2:06.01 in the 200 freestyle. 
Also swimming strong was the 200 freestyle relay team comprised of senior eo-captain Allison Smith, freshman Wendy Neumann, and fresh­man Ofivia Smith. Taking first in the 100 meter breast stroke was co-captain sophomore Michelle Samreta with her season best time of 1:B.11. Samreta currently holds Saint Mary's record time for the event with a timn of 1:12.23 which she sBt in November. 1996. 
"I think we did pretty well considering how tired we were from last week's workouts and considering the fact that we had a lot less girls than they did," said freshman Kate Nolan. "Some of our swim­mers beat their best times." 
The Belles compete again on Wednesday when they travel 

rate. McGill, Nikcs. and Hobanpereent f'rom three-point range, led the team with 13, 12 and 10was overwhelming for Saint points, respectively. Chicago'sMary's. The Belles were out­Jenny Costello trampled thereboundml 58-37, proving the Belles with 21 points. leadinggame was a mismateh in her team to a 59-51 victory.aggressiveness. Against Alma College, NikesHebounding again plagued and McGill mirrored each otherthe Belles on .Jan. 7 as they with 19 points apiece.played rival Calvin College. However, Alma's ShannonSaint Mary's pulled down 30 Gross and Ellen Bradburylnss boards than Calvin's 57. inched by them with 20 and 22McGill grabbed nine rebounds points, respectively. but was no mateh for Calvin's With three and a half minutesKarry Walters who alone com­remaining, McGill sank twopilnd 14 total rebounds. free throws to bring the BellesNikes again led the Belles to within four points. But afterwith 14 points as McGill and  Spring Break Setninars March 7-14,1998 Experiential/Servic~ Learning Center for Social Concerns APPALACHIA SEMINAR Service Learning at one of 12 sites in the Appalachian region An ND tradition of service-learning L' ARCHE COMMUNITY SEMINAR Live for a week in community with persons with disabilities Read the work of Jean Vanier MIGRANT EXPERIENCES SEMINAR Work in the fields with migrant workers Assist agencies that serve migrants Live with migrant families WASHINGTON SEMINAR Theme: Environmental Issues Direct contact with political, agency, and Church leaders in Washington, D.C. -Service and political awareness opportunities All seminars offer one academic credit (various departments) Applications Available Now at the CSC SOClAL CONCERNSApplications Due: Jan. 28, 1998  
C: r Jrt T I It 1 0 • African American (AA)SOCIAL CONCERNS and Hispanic (H) •Leadership Intern Programs• (LIP) Summer of 1998 $2300.00 for 10 week program Leam leadership and community building Three elective Theology credits H AA Chicago Chicago San Diego Detroit South Bend (other areas} (Lexington} (Dallas} ( } possible areas for '98 (San Antonio} Sponsored by: Black Alumni of NO Hispanic Alumni of NO Center for Social Concerns Office of Multicultural Student Affairs Applications available at CSC and OMSA Deadline for applications: Feb. 13th There will be a information session on •Jan. 21st • at the Center for Social Concerns 6:00 -7:00 pm  

Monday, January 19, 1998 The Observer • SPORTS 
•MlB 
Fans await McGwire's autograph 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS 

Mark McGwire comes to town on Monday, and it's as if people are waiting for the mossiah. 
ThB St. Louis Cardinals' sluggor is scheduled for a two­hour autograph session at the team's Winter Warmup at a downtown hotel. and the first !50 available signing slots, at $35 each. were sold before the doors opened on Saturday and Sunday. 
Another 1 50 autograph tick­<~ts will be sold Monday morn­ing and organizers expec.t them to be long gom~ by the time the event begins at 9 a.m. Orw fan said he· d be waiting outsidB at 5 a.m. 
"I talked to a guy who got here at 6 a.m. today and he was too late." said Greg Scott, 
28. of St. Louis. "It's like a roek concert. I guess." 
St. Louis has had McGwire mania since the slugger, who 
•NBA 
hit 58 home runs last seasoQ, was traded from the Oakland Athletics in late July. Thousands of people arrive two hours early for every game, just to watch him hit tape-measure shots in batting practice. 
McGwire's signature (limit one) is by far the most sought­after item at the three-day charity fund-raising event, and by far the most expensive. The price tag is $75 for sign­ing a bat or jersey. . 
Not far behind McGwire in demand were autographs from Dennis Eckersley, although he now pitches for the Boston Red Sox, Hall of Famers Lou Brock and Bob Gibson, and future Hall of Farner Ozzie Smith, at $25 each. 
On the other end of the spec­trum, the fee for Cardinals pitching coach Dave Duncan, infielder David Bell, pitcher Manny Aybar and catcher Tom Lampkin was $5, and for­mer Cardinals pitchers Danny Cox, Ken Dayley and Rick Horton were signing for free. 
Smith, at an appearance Saturday, somewhat down­played reports he was negoti­ating to play baseball again. Smith, 43, retired after the 1996 season. 
Smith said he had a casual conversation with San Francisco Giants president Peter McGowan when he was at Barry Bonds' wedding last weekend. The Giants are short at shortstop since last year's starter, Jose Vizcaino, signed with the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
"As I've said many times, I haven't closed any doors to playing again or anything," Smith said. "I don't have a contract and I'm not looking for a contract, but I'm not closing the doors to anything." 
Smith is the voice of "This Week in Baseball" as well as a Cardinals consultant. 
"Right now, I'm happy with what I'm doing," he said. 
Nuggets tie record for losses 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND. Ore. 

Gary Trent scored a career­high 27 points as the Portland Trail Blazers handed the Dnnver Nuggets their 20th straight loss, 94-82 Sunday night. 
The Nuggets tied the second­longest. single-season losing streak in NBA history. The Philadelphia 76ers lost 20 straight during 1972-73 and the Dallas Mavericks did the same during 1993-94. 
The longest losing streak in one season is 23, by the Vancouver Grizzlies in 1995­1996. The longest overall losing streak is 24, by the Cleveland Cavaliers over two seasons (1981-82 and 1982-83). 
The Nuggets led 61-60 before the Blazers scored the last seven points of the third quar­ter and went on to beat Denver for the ninth straight time. Trent scored five points during the Portland run. 
Kenny Anderson scored 23 points for the Blazers, while Arvydas Sabonis had a career­high 20 rebounds and 14 points. 
Rookie Bobby Jackson scored as career-high 27 points for Denver, which fell to 2-35 this season. The Nuggets haven't won since beating the Los Angeles Clippers on Dec. 7. 
Eric Washington added 17 
points for Denver. 
It was a wild game. 
Portland's Rasheed Wallace was ejected in the third quarter and Denver coach Bill Hanzlik was throWn out of the game in the fourth. The Blazers' Isaiah Rider also got a flagrant foul for throwing a,n elbow after getting fouled. 
The Nuggets led most of the first half and took a 38-37 lead into the locker room. They were led by Washington and Jackson with nine points apiece. 
The Blazers led 83-70 with 
3:46 remaining in the game. The Nuggets cut the lead to eight on Jackson's 3-pointer, but couldn't get closer. 

Last Chance 
to Prepare for the 
April MCAT! 
Classes starting this week! 
1/13, 1/14, 1/15, 1/22, 211 
Enroll today to save your spot! 
Call today to enroll in the #1 MCAT prep course. 

1-800-KAP-TEST www.kaplan.com 
olds many o(Nolre 
passing records. He completed a career-best 61percent of his passes this season, and his 57.5 percent career completion rate is sec­OJ1dii} school history. 
~~hard as it is toJiv~ with 
. . nqt ~fileting the big exp~cta­ti~;?~s.•.. P.owlus. cherished his time at Notre Dame and would not trade it for any-
happened was the local cdn~nc~d the 
.thatl did notlive 
thing. 
"I feel very fortunate to have had the chance J() go through .the Notre Dame experience," Powlus said. "I had a great career at Notre Dame. I was the... qp~rter­
back•• ·a Notre Dame for four years. Who could ask for more 

See sports happening? Call Mike Day and The Observer Sports staff at 1-4543 

O'LAUGHLIN AUDITORIUM • SAINT MARY'S COLLEGE Saturday • January 24 • 8 pm 
Tickets on sale at the Saint Mary's College Box Office in Oloughlin Auditorium, open 9 a.m.-5 p.m., 
Monday-Friday. Credit card orders by phone: 
219/2844626 ,,;ntM••r'•C•II'8'0 
. MOREAU 
Tickets also available atall ~EIVTEI{_ ~~tiCket cenfeJS 

FOR THE ARTS  
including Orbit Music and LS. Ayres. To charge lickels by phone, call 219/272-7979  NOTRE DAME,IN  
To purchase online:http: //WWW.Iicketmaster.com  

________________________________. 
-
page 22 

• TRACK AND fiELD 

Tracksters place at Purdue 
By KATHLEEN O'BRIEN every week. and that's the ·and help our 4x400-meter Sports Writer big thing right now. I'm not relay team medal in the Big
1 ..:..~...::.:..:~.:..:..:.:.'---------really running for time right East." 
The Notrn Dame men's now. I hope to run well in Two freshmen were glad to and wonwn's track and field the Big East, and hopefully get their first meet under teams turnml in solid perfor­that will transfer over to the their belts. m a JH:I)S at the u nscore d NCAA's," said Williams. "To "It was a good way to start Purdue OpPn in West start out with times that I'm off the season. I want to keep Lafayette this weekend. happy with kind of relaxes improving and have a lot of 
The Irish evnrything. I'm pretty confi­fun," said Olson. WIH"P com­dent that my times will just Carri Lenz, who placed peting keep falling. second in the 400-meter run against "Big performances are and third in the 200-meter Purdue, starting to become the norm. dash, said, "Considering that Ball State, We raised the bar last year, I'm a freshman, I'm glad to 
The Observer/Joe Stark 

Butlnr, and I think everyone has get the first meet jitters out, Freshman Kelley Siemon and the Irish lost a nailbiter to Boston College 78-76.
and sever­higher standards this year. especially being from al very As far as both men and Canada. I'm hoping to win in double figures. Junior Allison s m a I I women go, our goal is to do the Big East and qualify for Booth came off the bench to score
Irish
schools. really well at the Big East, the NCAA's this year." 14 points, while Paula Basco They got a number of top have a fun season, and enjoy Other top performances in added 12 to the winning r.ffort.
continued from page 24
finishes from members of the ourselves. I want to have a the meet were by junior For the game, BC shot 45 percent teams. induding victories by season that I'm comfortable Mike Brown, who pole vault­from the field and 40 percent
with perimeter shooting contin­
junior Nadia Schmiedt in the with to end my career on a ed 16'6 for second place; from the three-point line.
ued. The Irish went 0-for-5 from
600-meter run in a time of positive note." freshman Terry Wray, who "They're a great team."
beyond the arc in the first half but 
I::H. frnshman Erin Olson in Cochran ran times of 6.42 finished second to Payton in McGraw remarked on the ·Eagles.
rebounded to shoot 4-of-1 0 in the
the mile. sophomore Chris in the 55-meter dash and the 400-meter run in 50.17; "They don't beat themselves by
seeond half. Pierick went 2-for-8 
Cochran in the 55-meter 22.11 in the 200-mcter dash junior Jennifer Engelhardt making mistakes. They only had
from three-point range, including
dash and 200-meter dash, in his two first-place finish­and sophomore Kelle Saxen 11 turnovers for the game.
the late shot in which she was 
senior captain Errol es. in the high jump, and sopho­Thny'rn a very smart team, too."
fouled.
Williams in the 55-meter "We had good perfor­more Matt Thompson in the With the win, Boston College
"I thought we were a little slow 
high hurdles in 7.37 seconds, mances throughout the shot put. improves to 6-2 in the conference
in making the decision in the first
and senior Danny Payton in team." said Cochran. "The "Some promising newcom­and 11-5 overall. Combined with
half," McGraw remarked on the 
the 400-meter run in 49.65. bi-ggest goals are the team ers are Carri Lenz on the Villanova's 62-40 loss to Hutgr.rs,
poor perimeter shooting of the
"I was definitely pleased goals of winning the Big women's side there's no BC has moved into solo possession
Irish. "There was more movement
with the meet." said coach East. and I also hope to doubt about that," said of second place in the Big East 7.
in the second half. though, and
.Joe l'iane. improve on last year's times Piane. "On the men's side Connecticut, with a perfect record
we were able to make better
Williams tied his personal a great deal." are Terry Wray, Jermaine of 7-0 in conference play, still
screens. We were still a bit tenta­
bt~st with a fast enough time Sehmiedt, besides winning Brown, and Travis Davey, all holds the top spot. With the loss,
tive, though."
in the hurdles to make the the 600-meter run, placed sprinters." Notre Dame falls to 11-5 on the
The loss to Boston College ends 
current qualifying time for third in the 55-meter hurdles The season will really get season and 5-3 in the conference.
an eight-game winning streak for 
the NCAA indoors. llowever. and eighth in the 55-meter under way this weekend at good enough for a third place til~
Notre Dame which began with a
the qualifying time may later dash. the Red Simmons with Villanova.
win against Purdu1~ on Dee. 10. 
drop. lie also placed seeond "For the first meet, I Invitational in Ann Arbor, The Irish will 1·eturn to action
Before that, the Irish lost at then 
to Cochran in the 200-mnter wasn't sure quite what to Michigan. This will be the on Wednesday when they lwad
·­
No.6 Wisconsin, 89-77. 
dash with a time of 22.23 expnct," said Schmiedt. "This first meet of the year for eastward tn face Syracuse. The
On the other end of the court,
seconds. season, I hope to win the Big most of the cross country tip-off is scheduled for 7 p.m. in
Bouchard finished with a team­
"You hope to improve East in the 500-meter run runners. the Manley Field House.
high 19 points and led five Eagles 
... 

It was just a summer job. Now it's the rest of your life . 
Remember when your biggest career concern was running out of paper cups? And when it was easy to handle any summer job because it was just a summer job? 
Now you're graduating. You want a career that will challenge you every day and offer a variety of responsibilities. You want to work where the learning curve doesn't flatten out after a couple of years. 
At Andersen Consulting, our challenges change daily, like the world in which we work. Our job is to help clients effectively manage this change to be more successful. 
Come talk to us about a career with Andersen Consulting. 
ANDERSEN 
Andersen Consulting Is an equal opportunity employer. VIsit our web site at WWw.ac.com. 

CoNSULTING 
Andersen Consulting 
Resumes due to Career and Placement on Monday 1/19 or Tuesday 1/20 
(Full-Time and Internship positions) 
First Round Interviews Monday 2/9 and Tuesday 2/1 0 
Stop by and -see us at the Summer Intern Job Fair on Thursday 1/22 
Intern qualifications: 
• 
Entering as a Senior in Fall 1998 

• 
Majors requested: Computer Science, Math with computer concentration, MIS, Engineering, and CAPP 




Monday, January 23, 1998 The Observer • TODAY page 23 
have suggestions to improve campus
computing at ndil 
.. 


anend oit sponsored feedback forums all this week in vour 
residence halls. 


stu ent government 
MEN ABOUT CAMPUS 
i 
! 

47 Seafood 51 Not up yet order 54 Convent dweller 48 Macbeth, for 55 Storage one container 
56 Costello or 
keepsake to a 49 Lady's 

Grant soldier, once 57 Printer's widths 
.. 

Answers to any three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phone: 1-900-420-5656 (75(t per minute). 
Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888·7-ACROSS. 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Aries:'You prefer to be alone today, but you may not have the luxury of solitude. Be civil to those around you. 
Taurus:Avoid polluting your system with unneces­sary additives today. Your appetites and taste buds are not rational guides through a world of temp­tation. Doing something good for yourself can be fun, too. 
Gemini:Gemini is always bursting with ideas, and the Libra Moon aligns you with the people most likely to appreciate them. Spirited discussion feels especially good today. Committee actions are favored. 
Cancer:Your current relationship could be developing some addictive qualities. It simply may not be possible for two people to spend every moment together. 
Leo:Even if you are stat­ing the obvious, it's all in how you present yourself. Your public image helps you get dates, flag down 
'<OUR taxis, and be served with
'YOU'VE 

a smile. Your heart is
I'OlNT? 

close to the surface today. 
Virgo:You are feeling generous today, and you expect the same courtesy from others. You may not be getting any richer, but you are likely to impress all the right people. 

DILBERT SCOTT ADAMS 
8:1 
W\-\f:>.T'5

I'VE USED TI-\E. SCI[NTlFlC 
ARE '<OU 5A'<I NG ~ 

Actions are more mean­ingful than assets. 
Libra:By taking care of the ones you love most, you are looking after your own best interests. Mars and Venus set up a happy balance between self and other. 
Scorpio:Today you may need to shut out the world and spend a little quiet time with someone close. Responsibility might shake its head and wag its fin­ger, but the consequences will not be serious. 
Sagittarius:Share hopes and wishes with a part­ner, friend, or co-worker. A unified approach puts a common goal in easy reach. Keep all lines of communication open to monitor changes as they occur. 
Capricorn:It is in your best interest to finish old business before starting something new. Accept help as offered and use it as needed. 
Aquarius:Your talkative streak leads yo'u into a dialogue with someone very different today. Personal issues become metaphors for something much bigger. 
Pisces: P a rtn ersh ips might not· be a bed of roses today. Relations are strained by ownership issues. 


t'\E.TI-\00 "TO DEBUNK 100% OF T\-\E. PEOPLE 
CROSSWORD 
ACROSS 29 Foremost's partner
1 Walk, trot or 
30 Try, as a case 

canter 5 Cheese served 
31 Go out with with crackers 34 Liturgical 9 Cavort 
vestment 13 Speak without 35 Mocked notes 38 Clear (of) 15 Loaf about 39 Shirts for 16 Race track golfers? 17 Girl in a 41 Opposite of children's story include 19 Dried up 42 Mellowing, as 20 Go on and off, cheese as a traffic light 44 Long-legged 21 Spain and shorebird Portugal 46 90's music or 23 Polluted fashion 26 Having round 47 These can be protuberances winning or 27 Hammed it up losing 28 Irish accent 49 Scarlet bird 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

.. .... 0 
THAT 
® 
YOU
"' 
:1 
50 Readies, as a pool cue 
51 Harold who wrote "Stormy Weather" 
52 Harangue 53 Worse than awful 58 Fairy tale's opening word 59 They crisscross 
Paris &O Grafting shoot 61 Bambi and kin &2 They may be 
loose or split &3 Burden 
DOWN 
1 Joke 2 Commotion 3 State west of Ind. 4 Choice morsels 5 Flaxen-haired & Boulder 
7 Variety 8 Hamlet's home 9 Citizen Kane's 
last word 10 Domineering 11 Nobelist Curie 12 Beg 14 Military lodgings 18 Stretched the 
truth, so to speak 22 Peat locale 23 Trim, as a roast 24 Author Zola 25 Restraint 26 Velveeta maker 

EVERY lEST PERfORM TURNS 
1=--+--+--lf--­
28 Comport with 30 Development 
developments 32 Touch of color 33 Landscaping 
tool 36 Overconfident 37 Sock menders 40 More slender 
and graceful 43 Wild llama 45 Acorn tree 46 Joyous 
celebration 
... SPORTS 
page 24 Monday, January 19, 1998 
• MEN'S BASKETBALL 

Garrity sinks career-high 37 in Seton Hall loss 
Poor shooting plagues both squads 
By KATHLEEN LOPEZ Assistant Spores Editor 
Sf~ton I tall managed to silence all but onn member of the Notre Danw team in Saturday's win. Pat Garrity had another all-star pnrformance in posting a can~nr-high 37 points while the rest of the team gave a lacklus­ter pm·formancn chipping in 21 points. 
"We need other people besides Pat Garrity to scom the ball." head coach John MacLeod said about the 64-58 loss. "We need other people willing to step up and shoot shots insidf~ and outside. Our inside game was not very strong and our perinwter game was not nearly as solid as it was against West Virginia." 
The forward hPtt('red his carPer high by one. At half, Garrity was just 4-for--9 shoot­ing and he was tlw only player from Pitlwr squad in double digits. lin sank 12 of his 14 at tlw lint~. while tlw team as a whole went just 12-for-20. 
"Wn did a good job dnfnnsive­ly early and for the most part the tlntirn game." MacLeod said. "Wt~ held thnm to 34 per­cent from tlw field. but we only 
• WOMEN'S BASKETBAll 

shot :n [percent] ourselves." 
Notre Dame held the lead up until two and a half minutes left in the first half before Seton II all dosed up the half with a 9­0 run to secure the lead at the break. 
Poor shooting plagued both squads, especially the Irish who were coming off a strong of'fen­sive pnrformance -shooting 58 percent -against West Virginia. Notre Dame was strong on the boards, snatching 55 rebounds compared to Seton Hall's 38. 
Seton Hall may not have been able to silence Garrity, but the Pirates held the rest of the team to a meager 21 points. Notre Dame's other top scorers were Phil Hickey with six and Antoni Wyche with four. 
"We had a lot of shot opportu­nities that we didn't step up and take." MacLeod said. "We should have been shooting the ball when we were passing." 
Wyche found himself in the midst of a small altercation in the sP.cond half with Donnell Williams. Williams elbow land­ed Wyche with six stitches on his upper lip. 
"The two guys that really hurt us wem [Levell] Sanders in the first half and then [Rimas] Kaukenas in the second half." MacLeod said. 
Seton Hall was led by Shaheen Holloway and 
see HOOPS I page 17 


By BILL HART 
Sports Writer 

For Notre Dame's women's basketball team, the phrase "down to the wire" does not usually describe the outcome of this season's conference -games. Ilowever, Saturday's contest provP.d there is a first time for every­thing, as Boston College need­ed every sec­ond to pull out a 7 8 -7 6 
L.......l--=---:-:-~ victory over the visiting Irish. 
As was true for most confer­ence games this season, Notre Dame started off slow in the first half but gained momentum as the game went on. Down 16-10 early. the Irish used a 9­2 run to take the lead off of a layup by freshman Ruth Riley with just over eight minutes remaining in the first half. 
When Boston College went on a rally of its own, Notre Dame used its inside game to try to keep its lead at the end of the half. The Eagles again took the lead, but the Irish tied it at 27 three minutes before halftime. One minute later, senior Mollie Pieriek canned two free throws to take a two point lead. 
However, a last second three­pointer by senior Aimee McGuire, the only one of the half, gave the Eagles a 34-31 advantage going into the locker room. 
Early in the second half, the Irish rallied back from a seven point deficit and took a 48-47 lead off a Pieriek three-pointnr with 11:48 remaining in the game. The lead changed back and forth in the contest from that point on. 
Boston College extended one of its leads to 68-64 off of a layup by Paula Basco, but the Irish went on a 7-2 run to take the lead on two free throws with 1:32 left in the contest. Notre Dame then trailed 76-73 with 13 seconds left in the game when Pierick was fouled while attempting a three-point shot. Pierick hit all of her free throws and tied the game. 
However, the Eagles' Bouchard came through yet again, making a driving layup with live seconds remaining to give Boston College the lead for good. The Irish decided to inbound the ball immediately but were unable to use their final timeout of the game. Pierick threw up a desperation three-point shot that bounced oil' the rim. 
"I was signaling for a timeout while the ball was in tlw air." !wad coach Mufl'et Mc<;raw said about tho final play of the game. "Tht) referees, though, thought that we didn't havt) <me left. so tlwy were ignoring me because tlwy thought they were doing me a l'avor. 
"We were trying to get one, 
though. I think we still could 
have handled things lwttl)r, 
though, in the final play." 
For the Irish, Pierick finished the game with a game-high 26 points, bn)aking a earner-high of 23 points which slw had set three days fmrlier against West Virginia. 
"I thought it was a pretty good game," junior guard Shiela McMillen said about the Eagles. "Boston College played tough and executed very well. Everything was just dicking for them on Saturday." 
Hiley turned in her l'ourth consecutive double-doubln with 18 points and 11 rebounds, while McMillen was the only other player to finish in double 
·figures with 13 points. For the game, Notre Dame shot 42 pPr­cent from the field and RR per­cent from the charity stripe. 
However, the team's woes 
see IRISH I page 22

The Observer/Joe Stark 
Senior Mollie Pierick posted a career-high 26 against Boston College. 


Men's Basketball 
Hockey 
vs. Syracuse, 
at Bowling Green 
• Track team places several at Purdue 
Jan. 24, 7 p.m. 
Jan. 21,9 p.m. 
see page 22 

Women's Basketball 
Swimming and Diving • SMC basketball in midst of skid 
vs. Depauw
at Syracuse, 
see page 20

Jan. 30, 7:30p.m.
Jan. 21,7 p.m. 



