¦ Didn't do so well in the Quiz Show try­
AVast Right-Wing Censpirocy? 
Tuesday

. I• _., .... outs? T.1ke a shot at The Observer's Christmas 
•. .
.. • quiz.
.
. 

Columnist Sean Vinck tells all about the conservative
. 

DECEMBER 8,
. .
. . 

plot at Notre Dame. Viewpoint. g
··•·· >9" Scene• 10-11 
1998 


The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary's 
VOL XXXII NO. 64 WWW. ND.EDU/-OBSERVER 
Cerr1eka's mission 
SMC grad returns to discuss the poor ofSao Paulo 
I(Pidi C:Pnwka has d(wotcd the p11sl two y11ars to workin!{ with thn ·•11011-lwiugs" of Sao Paolo, Brazil's strPPt-wonwn who liv11 off tlw sidPwalks or who occupy (lw jails. 
"Tluly'n• the lownst of the low on t.lm lad(kr of wonwn who pros­Lil1lll• tlw111selv•1s," said _C:Prneka. a 1987 Saint Mary's graduato and :'\faryknoll lay missimwr, whost1 visil lo <'a111pus was sponsonld by tlw lluman Bights COLT. wonrnn's sl11di1!S program and Campus 
Ministry. 
"It's hard to live in Sao Paolo as a woman. It's hart! to talk to WllllH\n who have• no rights." C:t!rtwrka said. 
In llrn outskirts or llrn city. Cerrwka and four other mission­nrs' uutrnach involvns teaching wonwn thnir rights as human lH'ings. Two houses providn ser­virns for nnedy women and the missioners also visit a jail once a wnek. 
"If onn does not vote, does not have a 1wrmanent addrPss or a job, is one still a human bPing? II' tlwy di11d lomorrnw, no one would nnticn; no onn would care," she said. "l'arl of' our work is sitting down and talking, listnning to pl'o­pln who don't havn anyono lo lis­tnn to thmn." 
C:11rnnka spok11 about the coun­try's crumbling economy.•vhern mon1 than 01w million 1wople of Sao Paolo havn bePn struck by 

"It's hard to talk to women who have no rights," said Heidi Cerneka, a mis­sionary who has spent two years with the poor women of Sao Paolo. 
unmnployment, to the trap of des­Violence, sexual abuse and peration where these women live. hunger are some of the causes 
"In a country where unemploy­Cerneka noted that drive women ment is rampant. why would from their homes to the streets to someone hire th-csc women'!" become prostitutes, a legal profes­Cerneka asked, emphasizing that sion in Brazil. the average level of completed "Girls and women find them­education among the women is selves in prostitution doing things fourth gradn. they would never imagine them­
"Some men don't even lrnw1 the selves doing to feed their children money to pay Urn women who are proslituting," she said. 
see CERNEKA / page 4 
• 



The poor
• 

The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 
Grad gives $75K for hurricane survivors 
By NOREEN GILLESPlE 
News Writer 
Stirred by media reports of the d,wastation caused by llurricunc Mitch, a Notre Dame graduate and spouse recc'ntly madr. a $75,000 donation to • "'Tis rhe t h e Season ..;" Univ1wsity's p. 3 Center for 

Social Concerns. 
The couple. who wish to remain anonymous, had savr~d lhe money for several years l'or a down payment on a condominium in Florida but decided the funds would be better spent to aid victims of the recent hurricane in Central America. 
"They asked only that the money be used by those most in need and others at Notre Dame be urged to respond at whatever level they can," said James Paladino, associate director of the center. 
The couple had traveled to Florida to make the down payment on the condomini­um when television reports and media coverage or Hurricane Mitch shocked tho couple. 
"They saw the devastation and said that they knew they had to make a different type of investment." Paladino said. 
In a lnlter written to his friend, Father Donald 
McNeil!, director of the 
C:nnter for Social Concerns, 
the coupln cited the biblical 
inlluencns that aid11d thnir 
decision to clonatn the 
funds. 
"They said in tho lntt<H' 
thal thny wen~ of'tnn guided 
by the bible story of' Urn 
land donor who could not 
share his bountiful harvest, 
but chose to build morn 
storage bins," Paladino said. 
Thn money will Im given 
to several programs that 
have !men assisting recnnt 
Notrn Dame graduates in 
education and developnwnt 
programs in Cnntral 
America. Farm of' tho Child. 
an orphanage, school. and 
clinic in Trujillo, Ilo11cl11ras. 
the American FriPnds 
Service Committee and 
Catholic Belief Services will 
be recipients of' tlrn runds. 
Paladino said thn center 
was "very stunnnd" when 
they lrnard about the dona­
tion. 
"We were very surprised, 
but whenever there are 
times or need. people do 
step forward," Paladino 
said. "They hope that others 
will continue to share what 
God has called them to in 
·response to urgent human needs and suffering." 
Hurricane Mitch was the deadliest hurricane in over two centuries, according to weather forecasters. Approximately 11,000 Central Americans were killed by tlrn storm which also caused billions of dol­lars in damage. 

¦ CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Members debate group's duties 
By FINN PRESSLY N~w, Writ,·r 
Tlw Campus Li!'P Council took a major ship in dnf'ining ils rolp 011 campus by voling to anwnd its bylaws lht!rnby PXpn1uli11g its scope of' inllu­PtH'.l' lo includt> llui U11iv1irsity omens (;roup. 
"lnslflad of looking at orw spHcil'ic individuul. it would be tlw OfTic1'rs (;roup, which clocs i11cl11du lvico prnsidnnL for St11rl<•11t t\ffnirs l'ntricial O'llarn. It would allow us to semi any resulution to sonrn­
o rrn who would h1• more dirnclly involved with the isstrn," said Susnn Hoberts, chair of' tho Bylaw Hoview CommiLtmi. The CLC is cur­r1mlly limited to sending poli­cy recommendations directly and sohily to O'Hara. 
Sister Carrine Etheridge. rector of Farley Hall, expressed concMn that tho 
while O'llara has agreed to rnspond to recomnrnndations within two weeks. members of' the Officers Group may not b11 liigally bound to respond to CU: rncomnwndalions. 
The council noted. howflver. that if' the amondment is approvnd by thn Board of' Trust1\os. the Officers Group, just like 0'llara, will be required to publicly rospClnd· to CLC recomnHrndations. 
Father David Scheidler. rnc­lo r of St. Edward's Hall, addressed the issue of whnthnr or not the Officer's Group will he required to agrne unanimously to CLC rec­om mcndations for approval. 
"[Thu University Officer's Group] only meets a few times a year, and to have their agenda weighed down by lhe ten resolutions passed by the CLC in the first three months of the year would be inappro­priate. Most of' the issues 


would be specific to officer," Roberts explained, adding that it would be most beneficial to have resolutions addressed by just those officers involved with the issue. 
Bill Kirk, assistant vice pres­ident for Resid()nt Life, said that he l'elt the amendment might incrcas" thu number of resolutions, in theory reducing Urn amount of research and thought dtwotecl to each issue. 
"I Those rosolutions] arcn 't just done on a whim." replied Brian O'Donoghuc, chair or tho Undergraduate Finance Committee. highlighting the long hours of research put into each proposed recom­mendation. 
Student body president Peter Cesaro commented that he felt a higher number of' resolutions was a "sign of pro­ductivity," rather than a reduction in quality. 
see CLC / page 4 
page 2 
¦ INSIDE COLUMN 

Is it a Picasso, or a Garfunkel? 
Picture it: Stepan Hall, the science building adjacent to Nieuwland and across from O'Shaughnessy's side door. At the corner or two walls of windows, a nitrogen tank once sat peacel'uily on a concrete platform -hardly worth Heather Cocks 
Editor-in-Chief
noticing. 

Hut one dav. it went missing from· its pNd1, ostensibly because some­one figured a nitrogen tank might have some practical applications beyond being mere win­dow dressing. 
When a group of passing studen1.'> noticed the vacant concrete slab, they figured a corner spot like that is p.rime real estate for showcasing the so-called modern art that graces -or maybe rlcfaces -the ~otre Dame campus. 
Two of thosr. students opted for an interactive approach to r.ampus art They dr.cided to throw some old thing together, put it in the Stepan foyer and give people a definitive test: distin­guishing between those "protessional sculp­tures" and plain old junk. 
So they pounced -straight toward the near­est dumpster. Aftnr scouring the depths of th<' Riley "art dump"for classroom castaways, the would-be sculptors fashioned tlmir masterpiece. Atop a wobbly, lhrec-legged metal stand barely too big for the concrete platform, they placed a rusted metal guitar. 
It looked awful. It was perfect. 
The duo set the eye-sure in Stepan's foyer and left without a word. Step Two was to watch and wait, wondering if the curator of that spar.e would accept the creation as art or remove it. 
That was last spring. 

When the students returned in August, they saw not only that their decrepit creation still stood there. but that it had given someone a scare. The top portion of the guitar was sharply bent. as though it had been knocked down hard. The culprit. probably frightened he or she had just ruined expensive modern art, quickly right­ed the fallen instrument without questioning the validity of its presence there. 
And in its rusty, quirky glory, it even elicited a compliment: one professor reportedly said, "It's about time they put some real art there." · 
Fast-forward to late October. After more than 
seven months, someone must have wondered 
about the origins of that eye-sore in the window, 
ascertained that nobody really knew, and carted 
it away-most likely back to the dumpster from 
which it came. 

But by then, the students had made their point. Based on the "profossional" campus art that's sitting just yards away, a discarded metal guitar -an art school reject-can be passed off as a masterpiece, and barely anyone bats an eyelash. 
So far this year. Notre Dame's array of sculp­
tures has been so derided that some people rose 
to the occasion and vehemently defended its aes­
thetic value. It's fostered as much debate and 
received almost as much attention as the pro­
posed amendment to the non-discrimination 
clause. In fact, a "Sculptures Have Feelings, Too" 
rally is probably in the works. 
But not every issue demands life-or-death sta­
tus, least of all this one. Campus art is not the 
root of Notre Dame's social or diversity prob­
lems, nor is it presented as the embodiment of 
the University's moral fiber. It boils down to this: 
you pass it by, you either love it or hate it, and 
then you proceed with your day. Life goes on. 
So whether it's the heap of yellow cubes out­
side Decio. the armless wonder in front of 
O'Shaughnessy, or the swollen tic-tac on a spring 
that replaced the guitar statue in Stepan, 
remember: Interpretation of art is subjective, so 
one person's trash really can be another's trea­
sure. 

The r,iews expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those af'J'he Ohserver. 
¦ Too1w·s STAFF 

News Scene 
Tim Logan Sa.rah Dylag Noreen Gillespie 

Graphics 
Mau Turner 
Scott Hardy 
Sports 
Production 
Bill Hare 
Mark DeBoy 

Viewpoint 



Lab Tech 
Eddie Llull Ernesto Lacayo 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) i, publish«! Monday through Friday ~xcepr during ex::i:m and vacation periods. The Obsen,er is a member of rhc Associated Prest.. All reproduction riglits are reserved. 
The Observer• INSIDE Tuesday, December 8, 1998 





utside the Dome 
Compiled from U-Wire reports 

Duke president to sign collegiate manufacturing code 
DURHAM, N.C. mum possible" compliance instead of 
A Students Against Sweatshops "full compliance." march Friday afternoon accomplished Prior to the release of' the CLC code, more than just its stated goal of rais­SAS had hoped that the code would ing public awanrness. not just Aqua! Duke's but mandate full 
Tbe protest eliciled President Nan disclosure of factory addresses so that Keohane's first public statement on independent human rights organiza­the question currently facing Duke tions could monitor factories. Tho University: Should it sign the organization also advocated a more Collegiate Lir.ensing Corporation's explicit living wage provision. which Code of Conduct, released last week? would require that factories pay 
Keohane told the crowd she plans to employees enough to guarantee an sign the code -which regulates man­acceptable standard of living, even if ufacturers of college-licensed apparel this is higher than the country's legal 
SAS is asking the University not to
-although she thinks it contains minimum wage. serious flaws. In a press conference sign the code, predicting that other The 75 peoplr~ who attended the 
universities would follow the
later that day she added that she protest -including Duke Student 
University's lead, and a stronger code
intends to discuss the i.ssue wi.th Government President and Trinity Chancellor Michael Hooker of the will result. , senior Jeri Powell and several profes­
Cnlike a Duke code released last
University of North Carolina at Chapel sors -wore stickers reading "H.eject
spring, the CLC code contains no "liv­
Hill. who recently signed a petition Sellout Code." 
ing wage" provision. does not release
opposing the CLC code. At several points during the protest, "This is a political judgment call," factory addresses to university speakers noted Hooker's opposition to Keohane said. "If I thought. ii. was administrations and requires "maxi-the CLC code. 

¦ VALE !JNIVERSITY  ¦ Ut>m;rnsrry OF CAUFOfiNIAw8ERKHEY  
Student found stabbed to death  Student employee unions halt strike  
NEW HAVEN, Conn.  BERKELEY, Calif.  
Senior Suzanne Jovin was found stabbed to death at the  UC's graduate student instructors temporarily halted  
intersection of Edgehill Avenue and East Rock Road, about  their week-long systemwide strike last night after the uni­ 
a mile north of central campus, at approximately 10 p.m.  versity agreed to enter into discussions with them over  
Friday night, New Haven police officials said. Police  their fight for union recognition. Boosted by intervention  
responded at 9:58 p.m. yesterday to reports of a woman  from top California legislators and a U.S. representative  
bleeding at the intersection, according to a New Haven  on their behalf, the student employee unions agreed at 8  
Police press release. Officers discovered Jovin. 21, suffer­ p.m. last night to a 45-day "cooling-off period," during  
ing from multiple stab wounds. Police said they had not  which they will enter into discussions with the university  
determined whether the stabbing had occurred at the  regarding union recognition. The developments leading up  
location where Jovin was found. The Farmington medical  to the calling pff of the strike began Thursday. when state  
examiner's office confirmed the cause of death as a multi­ Senate President Pro Tern John Burton and Assembly  
ple stab-wound homicide. "New Haven police are uncer­ Speaker Antonio Villaraigosa issued a letter to UC  
tain of motive, and have leads lhat are being followed up,"  President Ilichard Atkinson and chancellors at the eight  
said Judy Mongillo, New Haven Police public information  universities affected by the strike. According to the letter,  
officer. Michael Kuczkowski, press secretary for the New  the university has misinterpreted the state law in claiming  
Haven mayor's office, said early indications showed this  that it prevents them from recognizing student employee  
was not a random event.  unions.  
¦ UNIVERSITY OF ILUNO!S  ¦ UNIVEASITV OF NEW MEXICO  
Crowd, low sales plague benefit  Student earns Rhodes scholar honor  
CHAMPAIGN, Ill.  ALBUQUEHQUE, N.M.  
A small fight, a critical crowd and low ticket sales trou­ Thirty-two American students, including one from UNM.  
bled Saturday night's benefit for the Kevin Moore  were selected Saturday as Hhodes scholars. Manuel  
Scholarship Fund, named in honor of a University of  Montoya, 21. of Mora, N.M., was the New Mexico student  
Illinois student who was killed in October. The first annual  selected. I-le is in the General Honors Program at the  
Holiday Comedy Explosion showcased nationally-known  University of New Mexico and is majoring in English and  
music and comedy talent to benefit the fund. The event  Economics. Rhodes scholarships provide two or three  
was coordinated by Black Involvement and produced by  years of study at the University of Oxford in England. The  
MidCoast Entertainment. Moore, a Jamaican student, was  Rhodes scholarships. oldest of the international study  
killed after being shot at a party at the Omega Delta fra­ awards available to American students, were created in  
ternity house on Oct. 10. DJ Twilite Zone, rated by Source  1902 by the will of Cecil Rhodes, British philanthropist  
Magazine as Chicago's top hip-hop DJ, provided music for  and colonial pioneer. The Rhodes scholarships pay all col­ 
the event, which had an admission fee of $12. Comedians  lege and university fees and provide a stipend to cover  
performing included Dante, Sonya D., event emcee DeRay  necessary expenses while in residence in Oxford as well as  
and headliner Jemmerio -all previously seen on Black  during vacation. The total value averages about $25,000 a  
Entertainment Television -along with David Edwards,  year. With the selections announced late Saturday. 2,854  
an MTV Real World cast member from the show's second  American students have won Rhodes scholarships since  

season. 
¦ SOUTH BEND WEATHER 
5 Day South Bend Forecast 
AccuWeather®forecast for daytime conditions and high·temperntures 

L 
Tuesday <@ 38 27 Wednesday -(f 42 26 Thur~day ~ 44 30 Friday I ~··44 31' 
J 

Saturday ·..~42 31 
.<~-,'"\f''',....,,,,/.. "
..i..r} 
4,Q,Q_q 6f. Q  n ~ 8  
Showers  T-storms Rain  Flumes  Snow  ice  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  
Via Associated Pms.s Gr~phFC5Nel  


the first selection in 1903. 
¦ NATIONAL WEATHER 

C 1999 AccuWeather, Inc.  COLO  WARM  STATIONARY  
Pn,nure:  
®  ©  .  .  .  .  fl2l  m  ()  ~. 4:~  
High  Low  Showers  Rain  T-storms  Flurries  Snow  tee  Sunny  Pt. Cloudy  Cloudy  

Atlanta Austin Baltimore  44 41 52  68 54 53  Chicago Cleveland Dallas  31 36 38  42 48 55  Madison 19 Minneapolis 17 New York 42  35 37 47  
Boise  18  33  Hartford  37  39  Roanoke  58  64  
Boston  37  41  Ithaca  31  40  Santa Fe  8  40  

TuesJay, December 8, 1998 
----------'-T=he~O~b=s=e~~e~r_•~CA~PUSNEWS page 3 
'Tis the Season to be9ivino... 
ND HOBY plants 


giving tree 

By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 
/\ rww tradition has begun in the Notre Dame din­ing halls undflr tlrn guidanco ol' the Notre Dame chaptnr of' the Hugh 0'Brian Youth Leadership Foundation (IIOllY). 
This Decemb1\r, tho club is sponsoring a Christmas giving trnn in ead1 dining hall decorated with hand-made ornanmnts. Each ornament carries a child's gender and age. Students can take an ornament and in rnturn leave an unwrapped gift for thn child inside one of tho boxes in either dining hall. 
The gifts will go to local Michiana children ages thrrni lo 17. Thes11 gifts will most likely become the only prns1mls the sponsornd children will receive this holiday season, according lo Mary Beth Stryker, current president of' I!OBY. 
"Thesn am the most needy kids who will appreci­atn Urn gifts tlrn most," Slryknr said. "If you were to rr.coive one gift for Christmas, what gift would you want lo rnceive'?'' 
Stryker said that many of the children who appear on the tree live in families receiving welfare. Catholic Charities of' South Bund gave the names of about 200 childrnn to thn organization to sponsor. Each trnn currnntly carrins about 50 ornaments. 
Thn trens wont up on Decembnr 3 after club nwmbms made the ornam!mts themselves. Stryker exprnssr.d hope that the project will provide a uni­find cause for Notrn Damn students. 
Meghan Dunrrn, a sophomorP in llrn club, came up with the idea when slw 11oticnd tho lack of a cam­pus-wid11 giving trnn project She based her idea on giving trnns in hnr old school and church. 
Notrn I>amn's chapt11r ol' IIOBY began last year u11d1•r the direction of Justin Ledesma '98. The chaplnr now has ov11r 100 meml.mrs and sponsors snrvicn, social and leadership activities with high school students. 

MBAs work to 'Make a Difference' 
By ANNE MARIE MATTINGLY 
Assisunr News Editor 
Almost 100 Master of Busln11ss . Administration (M.B.A.) students performed between 250 and 300 hours of community service durtng "Make A Difference Day," last week estimates M.B.A. student Erin Sbields, the.project <;oordi, 
nator. . . . .•·.· . The program, which ~. spon• sored hy.PurdueJJn(vef$ity, challenges M. B.A. programs .around the nation to compete against each other by accumu­lating the most number .orstu­dent volunteer hours in a 24­hour period. Notre Dame stu­

dents. perfc,rmed ·their .~~tvk.(,J.·. <dent B91 ~t'lep:yi~.r•q.i().µ•. "We·· 
between 3 p.m. Friday and:. S · ,,hope to ·have a.·go"od t~sponse 
p.m. Saturday, according to from students, faculty and 
S~!f~:· offered] {na.yb1t,ight"·· ,5!~;o~i'.jca.n;t"a,i.ntari\'.t1tnaw/ 
tor children and adults ..; [and she gets] no government money," said Shields. "Groups play w;ith the kids and ~o any household chores she needs like gardening and laundry." 
While. performing the various service tasks, participants asked residents at the Center for lhe Homeless, Women's (}are ••Center1; ;;a.nd ;.,;,•Mri:i,.
Doni~bt.te's botne what they wanted for Christmas. As a .fiIJ-~l·.W?~ken~ .. preJ~'?t,~~tset
Up a Christmas tt~e witl'( orna:: · ments stating the reql.lests, 'fcording to Shielcls. 
'.'Our frµ.al 'pus~: of the J.(lar is a wishing tree thatwe have set up in COBA," said .M.~..i\. stu­
different events over the 24­
hour time period," she said. 
Students served dinner at.the 
Center for the Homeless, 
wrapped gifts for AIDS Ministry 
iit local maUs and decorated the 
offices of the South Bernd 
Women's Care Center for 
Christmas. They also cleaned 
cagt~s and playedwith animals 
at the Humane Society, as well 
as providing assistance to a 
local woman -Mrs.. Donahue. 
"[Mrs. Donahue} lives around "here and houses about 30 fos­ment, htiy a giftand leave It under the tree, >Shields said. ~~pl~iqipg ihli~ ~tµdetjJ$ ;wnl deliverthe gifut'' · 

Winners of the contest will be 
ll.l),nouq,9~d. in f~brJ1ll.ry or Mft,rch,tacco.rdingto Shlelds, who said that the winning team will rcc13ive a plaque and all I)1trttci1>Ming s~l:t'.oQ1$ 'w-Ulhe . given c<rrtificates. This is the second year since the pro­~ram's creaUo:o+ J!1frdue Uhivorslty won· the ci.mte~t last year. 

Naval club raises $3, 700 for charity 
By TOM ENRIGHT 
News Writer 
The Trident Naval Society or Notre Dame raised over $3700 l'or the St. Joseph County Special Olympics during their 24 hour run this September, accord­ing to the society. 
Because most of the donations came in 
change, the club only recently learned 
how much they earned. 
During the event, volunteers from Notre Dame's Navy ROTC unit ran in pairs for 15 minute shifts. Wearing orange vests and carrying blue and gold tridents, the volunteers ran to various locations around campus seeking donations from students that they met. 
The club also raised money through dorm representatives who collected money in their respective residence halls. These representatives took collections either individually or at dorm masses. Other participants raised funds from dorm service project allotments. 
The group raised about $3,600 last year for the Special Olympics. according to Erique Blair. secretary for the organiza­tion. This year's total o/' $3,706.02 exceeded what the group hopnd again to raisr.. 
Most recently, the Trident Naval Society adopted a formerly homeless family for Christmas and provided them with vari­ous foodstulls for Thanksgiving. They are currently making Christmas stockings for children at a South Bend homell~ss shel­ter. 


9 pm-midnight 
Sundal/, 9},ec.. 13tli LaFortune Ballroom 
Relieve your stress during finals week! 
3$ The Santa Clause, Rudoph & Frosty on the big screen $Free Massages 3$Sno Cones, Popcorn and Candy Canes 

$Make your own Ornaments 3$Coloring Books and Games 
lfuuutkeaje 

Thursday, Dec. 10th, 9 pm-midnight in the Huddle 
---~-------------------------------------------. 
Tuesday, December 8, 1998
page 4 The Observer• CAMPUS NEWS 
Cerneka 
continued from page I 
or keep themselves alive," she said. 
Another problem which is on the rise among these women is AIDS. Cerneka said. 
Physicians come to the houses once a week to provide medical services, such as AIDS testing, and to urge the women to regu­larly attend the clinics. 
The missioners often face a fight with the government over the medical services they pro­vide, Cerncka said. 
"The state says [that if we pro­
vide the services1, then they 
won't come to the health clinics. 
But the truth is, they're not going 
to go," she said. "A life on the 
street is very immediate. It takes 
away your limits and discipline. 
They're not going to wait two­
and-a-half hours to see a doctor. 
I'd rather see them getting the 
medical attention they deserve." 
Most of the women come look­
ing for anything from lunch to a 
community, she said. The mis­
sioners provide workshop oppor­
tunities, art projects and a listen­
ing ear. 
Since her arrival, one house 
has also received a grant for four 
computers. She said she also 
dreams of establishing a literacy 
program among the women, 
many of which have been taught 
how to spell their own names. 
"If they'll get a job from it, I 
don't know," she said. 
"Education is one way to affect 
change in people's lives, but 
CLC 
continued from page I 
"I don't think expanding the number of officers we can send things to would increase the number of resolutions or decrease the quality of resolu­tions," agreed T i m [self-]esteem does that too." 
Twice a week, Cerneka walks the street with other women, hoping to reach as many women as possible. She also visits a jail each week that houses more than 500 women. 
Although the jail should serve as a temporary site after arrest, Cerneka said that many spend 
their entire terms  - sometimes  
up to three years  - in the ill­ 
equipped buildings.  

"There's no electricity, no clothing, no beds, toilet paper, sanitary products for the women," she said, also noting that eight to 10 women often share one dingy cell, locked up for more than 16 hours each day. The women. most of whom are in jail for drugs, have had their rights stolen in other ways as well, Cerneka said. 
Pregnant women rarely receive pre-or post-natal care, she said. The right to spend the first three to four months with their newborn is also denied in most cases. 
Currently, the Maryknoll mis­sioners are trying to transfer one pregnant woman to a jail with a nursery. 
Cerneka also tries to locate family members for incarcerated women, who were often arrested without notice and subsequently lost contact with their loved ones. 
Since there arc no phone calls allowed, the women are com­monly cut off from any connec­tion. 
"We spend a lot of time trying to find women's children. Many were adopted without their par­ents' knowledge," said Cerneka, 
FitzSimons, co­of a semester, 
president of 'THF.SE RESOLUTIONS 
thus creating the Hall AREN'T JUST DONE less of a need Presidents' for a late-night
Council. ON A WHIM..' 
place to study. The amend-• O'Donoghue · ment was 
BRIAN O'DoNOGHUE presented a res­
passed, and 
UNDERGRADUATE FINANCE olution calling
will be sent on for a formal to O'Hara for C0MM/'/7'££ CHAIR commendation 
[Huddle Mart] upen." 
Timing of the trial period is also critical in the success or failure of the experiment. as pointed out by Roberts. 
"I think we should be care­ful not to put the trial basis at the beginning of next semes­ter," said Roberts, noting that, as a whole, students have less work assigned at the beginnfog 
approval before the next meeting of the Board of Trustees. 
In other CLC news: 
•A resolution concerning extending the hours of the LaFortune Student Center to 4 
a.m. on a trial basis was pre­sented by Matt Mamak, chair of the Community Life Committee. 
"This was done in the past. They tried it on a trial basis five or six years ago, and it wasn't that successful. ... In the basement there's a drop­off after 4 a.m., and that's why we chose that time," said Mamak. calling attention to a steady increase in the usage of the first floor over the past four years. "We're not going to call for something that isn't one hundred percent needed." 
According to Mamak, the 
only significant cost in 
extending the hours of the 
first floor would be the addi­
tional staffing of the Huddle 
Mart, as well as a paid stu­
dent monitor. He suggested 
that the cost should be 
absorbed by Student 
Activities. 
"It would be interesting to see the revenue generated," said Scheidler. "My hunch is that the revenue generated would pay for keeping the 
of the Financial 
Aid office. 
"The Under­graduate Finance Committee has been researching and working in conjunction with the Financial Aid department, and have really taken a hard look on behalf of the rectors, faculty, and students repre­sented in the body," said O'Donoghue. "It's our belief that they are on track, and [we want] to recognize a job well done, as well as the long road ahead." 
The council debated whether or not it was permis­sible in the bylaws to submit something other than a policy recommendation to O'Hara, in this case, a commendation. 
"Any membership body has 
the right to express itself any­
where it wishes .... A letter of 
commendation, even though 
it's not explicit in the bylaws, 
is the inherent right of any 
body," said A . .I. Boyd, mem­
ber of the Bylaw Review 
Committee. 
Following discussion, the 
council agreed that rather 
than submit a resolution, 
O'Donoghue should compose 
a letter of commendation on 
behalf of his committee. The 
letter would subsequently be 
approved by the rest of the 
council as a show of support. 
who also relays messages from the women to family member's whose locations are known. 
The missioners also use "sym­pathetic lawyers" to defend many of the women, who are often lost in the shuffle of the system. However, the guards in the jail arc not always quite as sympathetic to the women, she said. 

When Cerncka questioned a guard about the absence of elec­tricity in the jail, she said, "His response was that before they were arrested, 30 percent of these women lived under bridges and now they want a five-star hotel. I told him that five-star hotels have beds, two people in a room and toilet paper." 
Despite the frustration, 
Cerneka said she keeps hope through her daily contact with the women of the Brazilian streets and jails. 
"I really love these women," she said. "We try to tell them they have the right to housing. They have the right to have rights. The idea of human rights is intrinsic with being a hmnan being." 

Class of 
'99 
Come see "WATERBOY' at Movies 14 on Edison Rd. 

$.99 for first 99 Seniors!! 
Oelfi,,,e/";1(1 Tk fld~t Rzza.1 @3©[}~ Q[J)@ @il©@fk l](!)@§c{]G)~gg  
9  Anytime Anytime you call between you call between 910 11~•6:00 & 7;30, 11:00-12:30 the price of your the price of your 2 large 1 large 1 topping topping pizzas pizza is the time you call.is the time you call. * Plus tax* Plus tax  
ND store Saint Mary's/ 271-11.77 North Village Mall Drive-In and Delivery 271-PAPAVisa/Mastercard Accepted  

,..,._____.,.______________~------.,.-------------~-­
¦ WORLD NEWS BRIEFS 
Hamas criticizes Clinton visit 
(ii\ZA CITY 

Tim radical Islamic group llamas on Monday dnnounced l'rnsidPnt Clinton's upcoming visil lo tho c;aza Strip, but carnful­ly avoidl'd makin).{ any thrnats against him. 
llamas is a bitter op1wn1mt of any pflacc with lsranl and or tlw U.S.-brokured land­liir-siwurily accord si!{nml six weeks ago. "Of co1irs11 WP don't w11lconw him." Mahmoud Zahar, a I lamas spok,~smun, said of Clinton. wlw <:onrns to Caza rwxt Monday. "Ile brings 1111t.hi11g !'or us, or for any l'a!Pstinians.... !In is a I00-pnrcnnl supporL11r ot' Israel." Zahar said in an interviow with The Associated l'n1ss that d<'spitl' its opposition to Clinton's visit, llamas had no plans Lo st.ago attacks during it. or to lltt'g('l tlH' prnsid(1nl. 
"From our sicl£1. we won't do anything. \Vo don't lwli1w11 any aggr1ission against this (visit) will iwrve our pllrposns," he said. "We will lnavP him to prncticn his tricks." 
Diocese suspends preist 
HOCIIESTEH, N.Y. 

Tlw Homan Catholic Diocese on Monday sus­pPmhid a priest who conductml same-sex wml­dings, served Iloly Communion lo non­Catholics and allowed a woman to perform some duties on the altar. The Bev. James Callan, who had ministerod for 22 years at the Corpus Christi Church. was reassigned in /\ugust for violating church policies. His sus­pension, announc<•.d by Bishop Matthew Clark, 1mmns he cannot cdcbrate Mass or administer sacraments. Clark said the suspension was intendtid to b(1 rcmcidial, rather than punitive, and can bn revoked if Callan assures the bish­op that he will follow church rules. Callan had btiPn told not to have contact with members of his old parish, but had bmm present for liturgi­cal services, said Heverend Kevin McKenna, lhe chancellor of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Hochtister. "It puts the pastor who is altmnpting to lead the congregation in a very awkward situation," said McKenna. 
Man falls in bear pit 
RERN, Switzerland 

/\ man had to he rescued by firefighters Monday wlrnn Im climbnd into lhe Swiss capi­tal's historic bear pit and polt11d two bears with snowballs, city polic11 said. Thti :-J5-year-old, who wasn't idnntilicd, was taken to hospital with "considerable nesh wounds" to his legs and shoulder after climbing into the enclosurn and throwing snowballs at the two bears, named Selma and Urs. D,lspite bystanders' attmnpl'> lo dislract her wilh food, the f'emalo hPar grabbed him by the shoulder and draggnd him into her cago, police added. Tho lmar let go of' llrn intruder only when her k11ep­1•r banged on tlrn bars of lhe cage with a metal ohje('.l. 

Dow 
AMEX: 664.34

JONES 
+:l.95 
Nasd:Hi: 2,040.64 
+37.4X

91)47 
NYSE: 577.JJ 
-i-.l84 S&P 500: 
1,187.70 
Composite
+ 1().96 
Volume: 

+54.33 659,000,000 VOLUME LEAOERS 
2t PU:Nl.Y I t;,\IN tRlbE 

('01nJ11hj('1,n11•1.1"•r {"I'<) +1.1, +,HltMlU ... (,g7~ M1~·n!•11l1 ("u,r M.':iFI . .J Kti -th 187, 1.,.1.!l(il."i lk11 ('11111pur-c-1 IWU •2.4tl .+l.t1'2.\0 ~7,f,2j ()lluul llctJhh OKIIP +'l? 27 +.1 1117:\ 14.Kn N,0•1111,• ~.-,,r;i NAVk f't..'J.K-4 +,'\ ,:'IOOU ll,\n t'1,,•o Sy,1~uh t'S('(J +2.41! ""I -~n1, l(!l,j:!i7~ 
l11ld Curfl 11'1TC +2.i" +2 t'tl~'1 IIK,lJ)7' V,dt k1u l)1~• Adr CVKOY -I 'IN -0.2.'il'iO 1\.110 I.Yi:C'fl! Tedi In~· 1.U . .J..44 +4.2~1KI l(lll_(MI <:01111.:,1~1 Corr t·M('.i;:K .,.22 .u,1tt ,2.ttU 
AFP Photo 

As the House Judiciary Committee nears a decision on impeachment proceedings, some protesters appear to have reached their own decisioris. 
Hyde:'CompelJ.ing' case on Clinton 
ASSOCIATED PHESS 
WASHINGTON 
Backpedaling under pressure, the White House jettisoned plans for a fresh assault on Kenneth Starr Monday as it readied a last-ditch impeachment defense of President Clinton for the House Judiciary Committee. 
The White House recast its strategy on the eve of historic hearings as the panel's chairman, Rep. Henry Hyde, R-111.. said there was a "compelling case" for impeaching the nation's 42nd president. 
"I haven't heard anybody say Monica Lewinsky is a liar," lhe Illinois Republican said of the former intern whose detailed allegations of White House sexual encounters with the president are at the core of the nation's impeachment drama. Hyde challenged the White House to pre­sent exculpatory evidence over the two days allotted for the president's defense. 

With the committee expected to vote by week's end on articles of impeach­ment related to perjury, obstruction of justice and abuse of power, Clinton's defenders were increasingly turning their attention to a likely battle in the full House next week. 
The White House has been given a list of 30 or so GOP lawmakers who officials believe could be persuaded to oppose impeachment, either on the merits of the case or on the basis of the political makeup of their districts, according to sources who are familiar with the situation and spoke only on condition of anonymity. 
These lawmakers are from districts that Clinton won in his re-election campaign in 1996, and where there is a significant Democratic vote in gen­eral. 
The list is heavily tilted to the Northeast -ranging from New York Reps. Jack Quinn, Rick Lazio and Michael Forbes to others such as Connie Morella of Maryland, Jim Leach of Iowa and I-loather Wilson of New Mexico. 
The GOP holds a 228-207 majority in the expiring Congress. Only three Democrats are believed ready lo sup• port impeachment, meaning that moderate Republicans hold the bal­ance of power in determining whether Clinton's case goes to trial in the Senate. 
¦ RUSSIA 

Despite illness, Yeltsin fires top aides 
A'iSOC:IATEO PRll..'iS  president's poor health.  Yeltsin appeared animated  new importance following  
"Youcan see how vigor-.  and robust as he scowled  the killing of a top liberal  
MOSCOW  ous I am," Yeltsin told his  and delivered one of his  lawmaker,  Galina  
Boris Yeltsin roused him­ staff as he delivered the  patented tirades.  Stnrovoi tova.  
self from his sickbed for .  news, !lccording to prcsi-· ·  "Tough discipline, ordor  Yeltsin's announcement  
three hours Monday, fired several or his top aides anct t h 1, n __.__ _...........-,  dential spokesman .Dmitr:Y Yakushkin: Among those fired was  ·  and reform is what we rteed," Yeltsin said slowly and sternly as ho glared at  was seen as mostly symbol• ic, however, since the prt~sl• dent already wields authori­ 
returned  Presidential Chief of Staff  his staff from the head of a  ty over all the ministries he  
to  a  Valentin Yumashev, one of  long table. Aides looked  mentioned and the minis­ 
Kremlin  Ynltsin's closest and most  down and scribbled notes.  ters who head them were  
hospitalwhere  ,,i .....:i_ ,; , · -""  loyal aides. A former jour­nu.list who was the ghost•  Besides firing Yumashev ·. and three of hls deputies,  left ln place. His remarks mostly sug­ 
he  is  writer' ofYelt'ii.n's memoirs,  Yeltsin announced that ho  gosted that Yolt.sin is th·tid of  
recuper­a t i n g  Yumashev had sotwed alf chief of staff for nearly two  was personally taking charge of "all power min­ being portrayed as a figure, head who has rellnquistrnd  
f  r  o m Yelstin  years  - an  eternity in  istries  ...  Including  the  nil power to his prime min·  
pneumo­ Yoltsin's Kremlin.  Justice Ministry and the tax  istor. Yevgeny Primakov.  
nia.  ''The president has found  police."  Primakov, appointed in  
Ii was a classic perfor•  a way to revitalize his statf  "Power ministries" are  Septemb,w, bus been left to  
mance  from  the  ailing  -by firing it," observed  usually defined as those  tacklo tho economic crisis  
Hussian president, who rar<~ly seems so energized as when ho is firing some­ Alexander Shokhin, loader related to national defense of tho Pro-government blop · and security. The Justke in parliament and, until .Ministry and tax police are  that has mired the country deeper in povf.lrty. Yeltsin has said litthi and rlomi kiss  
one, The dismissetl aides  recently, a steady Yeltsin  at the forefront of the fight  about the economy since it  
included officials who had commented recently on the  ally, Shown  on  television,  · against crime and corrup­tion, which has taken on  went into August.  a  tallspin  in  



page 6 The Observer • CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 8, 1998 

Panel: Do work you enjoy 
By RUTH SNELL News Writer 
Without comparing notes beforehand, every speaker at the the Women in Entrepreneurship panel pro­gram yesterday at Saint Mary's emphasized working at what you enjoy. 
The program. which was given separately at Notre Dame and Saint Mary's, presented three women in business ­Carol Pankros, CEO of her own financial planning firm in Illinois, Maureen Muldoon, founder of MJM Meetings and Planning Services and Dru Milby. senior vice president and chief financial officer of Papa John's pizza. 
Pankros started her firm 15 years ago, partly so that her work schedule could be flexible, but she also wanted flexibility in lrnr approach to financial plan­ning. 
"Almost everybody in financial planning Ithen I represented a product, but I wanted to consult with a· client to figure out their goals," Pankros said. "Even though I have technical skills, a lot of times what I'm doing is just getting through the psychol­
The Observer/Manuela Hernandez 
ogy of money." 
Carol Pankros, Maureen Muldoon and Dru Milby
Now. she is trying to get her 
spoke Monday about life as a female entrepreneur.
daughters, ages 19 and 21, to read "Do What You Want and sonal background. She was raised in a
The Money Will Follow," one of her 
small town by parents with minimal
favorite books and her career philoso­
educations and strong work ethics.
phy. 
Married two weeks out of high school,
"Look at yourself, listen to yourself, she moved to Louisville, Ken., where
find out what you really like," Pankros she first worked as a statistical typist in said as advice to future businesswomen. 
a CPA office. In 1980, at the age of 26, "Everything happens for a reason," she graduated from the University of
she said, emphasizing that careers 
Louisville and started working for
evolve. "But it is also important to be Kentucky Fried Chicken. She left in mid-sure to have the backing of credentials." 
1990, ending up at Papa John's in 1994. 
Maureen Muldoon started in business The Pizza chain's accounting depart­
as a secretary, but said she missed 
ment had only five people when shebeing a part of the big picture. 
started. It now has 125."'She has helped
However, her experience and enjoy­Papa John's grow from the ground up,ment in detail work has supported her mostly by hard work.
well in her current career as a meeting "I built my own part my own way, butplanner. 
I had a lot of help_," Milby said. "It came
Muldoon used her local reputation ­as a real shock that I only had 24 hours
her parents own a local restaurant 
in a day, just like everyone else." 
chain -to help build recognition for She offered advice for anyone, not justher business. 
those going into business. 
"I used name recognition to get my "Be patient; be flexible and open­foot in the door, but anyone will sink or minded to learning from others," Milbyswim on their own merits," she said. 
said. "Set realistic goals; maintain aMuldoon is the current president of 
positive attitude; keep your heart andWomen Business Owners of Michiana, a soul healthy; plan to live forever, butforum to share business information 
live each day as if it's your last; be
and act as a support group. · happy."
"Don't be afraid to try; have fun, it The program was sponsored by·the
shows," she advised future entrepre­
Saint Mary's Student Academic Council 
neurs. "You can never own or use too 
and the Business Department and by
many three-ri.ng binders." 
the Notre Dame International CouncilDru Milby also talked about her per-on Business Development. 
Got News? Call us at 1-5323 

('· On°Campl!i,.~tttd(;nts slwuld •· pnictice =~_.;;.;~....,-,.,JMreased yJ~HMci~ during tho last few > , .. •·· ···••· ···.·...· . .. . ... · ', weeks of the i,c1iiester as well, said
Every '.year student~Iive off-campus,· · Gagnon; as this period is one of typically and .,e,,v~ry year th.et> io away for . higher numbers of t.hel'ts. These often Clu·i$~<1$ break. l.Q~9'[lpQiiunists are occur from library study areas and din­notl>lindtothls trend Md have begu!' to ing halls. 
J( . J~f}~ .·. ' ' ' J;)lp5 \'{hie~ .. ''.'.fhisJs 1J}~ tµ11e of yearwhen we do ly<le ,apttrtinems· ,g<:lt an increase in thefts,» hO said. Ho . explained that would-be thieves recog­pro~Ie~n/i Witli off-campus n1ze the formidable timing of this period e of the. areas close in is because stealing an item in the Iai.t few be locaJ, de~pi.m1.dos realize days before a break is likely to leave the 
·ve Qi.eve :u:id :Ill.at.th · · .·. trail cold by the time victims can return . C tr tho.rotig~lypursue sudl thefts. F dn :1\riother ~etvice offered by Security is ea'.S'9i).y.>Notre .··• bamk the Winter, Bicycle Storage which will 
Se<;itl';it~/Police wtH ru)Ya Christmas take place this Thursday and Friday BreaJ<.Stora.ge pi·ogt.a~Jor students to.. between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. at Gate D of bring ,in valuable$ sue!:\ ,~.s laptop com-Notre Dame Stadium. Stored bikes will 
be stored b.e. rslgisterer:l and stored in a locked 
JP.. in tfui tPom i11 j.he.~tiidium at no cost. .. . vacati®' ' ••Jtegiste;in~ ~ bike enables security to iSa .serHe~ ··• x:eturn it to some.one when it is found 
etween 9 ·or .stolen and allows officers to spot suspicious situations involving persons on a bike with a Notre Da,me decal on 
ntage of the; it, accordingtoGagnon.
1,wli,i¢~: :, .. /fh.o 02. (,qt;Lock Up'' willalsobe ~~d,s$t'.; v.99,curring,t~s break. The Jotwill be awaka P-0lic~' 'locked and pa.ttoUed t'rom Sat;,Dec.19, 
de ...·...•...· ....·.. . . tTs ..··. ·.... off1frs periodfo · at 5 p.m. untU Sun., Jan, 10, although checks 9f residenoesJ<ir those whose students who need to reclaim their resid1:1nces will be CQtnpletely unoccu, vehicles during that time may do so by pie the break: ·..•• calling CampusSecurity at 1-5555. 
"Make sur~.. rou don't leave anything ]J}.thecar. orxatleast in.plain view," . · Eiaid Gagnon( 


esi-. He also a.dvis~d off-campus students n ~. m ·.·· ...·. . < . · ... cer, to notify their landlord or apartment 
who will look for sf us of foul la . manager and to take common sense precautions such as checking windows d doors apdleaving lights or a radio
"::,:,.,..:.,=---· .-. 

Encuentro Chicago: Afaith exploration ofjustice & hope through community immersion 
-0MPUS 

When? February 5-7, 1999 
MINISTRY 

Informational Meeting: Tuesday, December 8 7-7:30pm at CSC 
Applications: Now available at both the CSC & Library Campus Ministry Office 

SOCIAL CONCERNS 
vs. #lConnecticut 
Dorm }Vlascot}Vlanial 

T0&"'1i..ght 7:00pm 
Don't miss the 1st ever dorm 

FREE PIZZA/or the first 200 students! 
mascot costume contest/ 

adidas giveaways for the dorm with the highest attendance! PLUS...one lucky fan will win two (2) 
A
wear Your BLUE & GoI.D!! 

FREE AIRLINE TICKETS!! a~@as 
Tuesday, December 8, 1998 The Observer• INTERNATIONAL NEWS page7 
¦ IRAO 
U.N. to perform surprise weapons inspections 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS 

U.N. weapons inspectors will begin a series of surprise inspections Tuesday in Iraq in a linal tost of whether Baghdad is coopnrnting fully in the search for banned weapons, chief inspector Hichard Butler said Monday. 
Tlw Iraqis in the past have tried to block or thwart some surprise inspections, calling thorn provocative and an inl'ringenrnnt of sovereignty. 
Aftnr thn surpris1i inspections ani f'inislwd lat!! this week or 1!arly next week, Butler said he will prnparn a report for U.N. Sncrntary-Grmeral Kofi Annan on whether or not Iraq has kept its Nov. 14 promise to resume unconditional cooperation with the inspectors. 
Annan will then report to the Security Council. which must decide that Iraq is in full coop­eration with inspectors before it will undertake a comprehensive review of Iraq's compliance with U.N. resolutions. 
Thll U.N. Special Commission, known as UNSC0M, and the International Atomic Energy Agency must certify that Baghdad has eliminated banned weapons before the Security Council can lift sweeping eco­nomic sanctions imposed in 1990 after Iraq invaded Kuwait. 
Diplomats said if a comprc­hensive review is approved, it shut down inspections Oct. 31. weapons inspector in Baghdad will not start until January. Under threat of U.S. airstrikes. had informed Iraq's National 

Iraqi leaders Iraqi leaders Monitoring Directorate Monday see the review as reversed that the surprise inspections the quickest course Nov. were about to begin. route to easing or 'IRAQ HAS HAD PLENTY 14 and Former weapons inspector lifting economic promised to Scott Ritter, in an article pub­
OF TIME TO SHUffi.E

sanctions, but give inspec­lished Monday in The New
THE DECK, TO HIDE ITS

diplomats say it tors unfet­Republic magazine, said sur­will merely WEAPONS TO STAY ONE OR tered access prise inspections will fail establish a list of to all sites because Baghdad has had lime
TWO STEPS AHEAD OF THE
Baghdad's out­and docu­to shift dncuments and materi­standing obliga-WEAPONS INSPECTORS.' ments related als to new. secret locations. tions. The United to its pro-"Iraq has had plenty of time States insists the grams to to shuffle the deck, to hide its review will not ScorrRIITER d eve I op weapons to stay one or two necessarily lead FORMER WEAPONS INSPECTOR n u C I e a r ' steps ahead of the weapons 
to ending sanc­tions. Iraq curtailed UNSC0M's activities Aug. 5 and completely 

¦ NORTH KOREA 
War plan concerns miJJtarJ:: 

Auociated Preu 
UNITED NATIONS 

North Korea's military lead­e,·s accused the United States of looking for a pretext for a second war in tho divided Korean Peninsula and warmid they will strike Japan and any othor nation that helps U.S. forces. according to a U.N. document released Monday. 
The general staff of the North Korean People's Army said Washington has recently gone «beyond the danger line" with increased military preparittions and a reported new 11vo-stage plan to wago war against the North. 
The military leaders said warnings by conservativti hard-liners in the United Statfls that Washington would break Its nuclear agreement with Pyongyang if' it can't inspect a suspected nuclear weapons site were "like a declaration of war." 
Under the 1994 agreement with the United States, North Korea agreed to abandon its suspect nuclear weapo.ns pro• gram. In return, it is to receive two nuclear reactors worth $4.6 billion, plus sub­sUtute fuol oil and other eco­nomic benefits. 
North Korea's U,N. Ambass.ador Li Hyong Chol asked the Security Council to circulate the statement issued Wednesday from an unidenti• fiod spokesman for the army's general staff. Parts of tlHi statement W(We carried Friday by tho North'soflicial Korean Central News Agency. 
The statement was issued two days before the United States and North Korea resumed talks about the underground North Korean site suspected of being used to produce nuclear weapons. 
.,,":·: •·' ,.:;:::,i,; 
North Korea, which has 
asked Washington to pay $300 million for tho right to inspect the. site, reported n~.Jitogress ·• dudµ~< ralks Ffi?~f.<.·and 
Satu.rduy In... tse~'c<~ork,; 
Discussions were cop.driuing. Monday and Tuesday in Washington, 
South Korean President Kim Dafl-Jung proposed Monday that ~.Ill) JJnited State~ provJ:de.. economic and diplQrril:lti<; bpn­efits to North Korea in exchange for access to a sus­pected North Korean nuclear weapons site. 
The .communist state's news medta .JrequeritlYi pµbli~h saberirattling rhetoric. But South Korean officials said it was unusual for North Korea's hard-line military, whicha forms the backbone of.the gov­~r.nin.«n,f, to malc<hl). pµb\lP:sta,iQni.Q~t. The N<>t\P'~ t.l' 
million-strong milita.py ls the world's fifth-largest. 



End of the semester Class dinner at 


BW3's 
All you can eat Wings for $2/per person Wednesday, December 9 5 •• 30-7 pm 

chemical and 
biological weapons and long-range mis­siles. 
Since the weapons inspectors returned. they have been testing Iraq's promise, seeking access to documents, interviewing Iraqi weapons experts and monitoring previously inspected sites to make sure dual-use equipment is not used for banned weapons. 
Butler said the senior 
inspectors,'' Hitter said Monday at a press briefing. 
"When inspectors start carry­ing out no-notice inspections, they will lind nothing, and in so finding nothing they will only reinforce Iraq's argument that there is in fact nothing in Iraq,'' he said at the briefing. 
Ritter insisted the Iraqis are hiding weapons of mass destruction, but he said the Security Council isn't pushing for Iraq's disarmament. 

Help Wanted. 
The Observer News Department is looking for wire editors. For more information, call 
1-5323. 



Happy
40th 
Birthday,
COACH 

VIEWPOINT 
page 8 -------------------------
------------------Tuesday, December 8, 1998 
THE OBSERVER 
NOTRE DAME OFFICE: P.O. Box Q, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 631-7471 SAINT MARy's OFFICE: 309 Haggar, Notre Dame, IN 46556 (219) 284-5365 
1998-99 GENERAL BOARD 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Heather Cocks MANAGING EDITOR BUSINfS.~ MANAGER Brian Rcinrhaler Kyle Carlin 
AsslSTANT MANAGING EDITOR Heather MacKenzie 
NEWS EDITOR ........................Michelle Krupa ADVERTISING MANAGER........................ Bryan Lut< VIEWPOINT EDJTOR ................Eduardo Llull AD DESIGN MANAGER ........................Bren Huelar SPORTS EDITOR ...................... Kathleen Lopez SYSTEMS MANAGER .....................Michael Brouillet ScENE EDJTORS...........................Sarah Dvlag CONTROLLER.....................................Oave Rogero 
Kristi Klitsch WEB ADMINISTRATOR ..................Jennifer Breslow SAINT MARY'S EDITOR .....M. Shannon Ryan GRAPHICS EDITOR ...............................Pete Cilella 
PHOTO EDITOR ................... Kevin Dalum 
The-Observer is the independent nc.'\VSpape-r published b}' che students of ,he University ofNorre O:ime du Lac and Saint Mary's College. It does no• neccs:sari!y-ri:'tlecr the policies of rhe administr:i:tion of eirher in,rirution, The news is 
reported as accurately and ohjectivdy as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinioJ1 of the m:i:joriry of rhc 
Editor~in~Chief, Managing F.<liror, Assistant Managing Edicor and depanmenr editors. Con-tmcntaries, letters and columns prt!Senc the views of cht: aurhor~. and not necessarily chose of The Obscivcr. Viewpoint ~pace is available to all 
m~mbers of rhc Notre Dame/Saint Mary's community and to all readers. The free cxprCMion ofvarying opinions 
through lcners is encouraged. 
Contacting The Observer 
Ediror-in-Chief 63 J-4542 Business Office 631-5313 Managing Ediror/As,istant ME 6_~1-4541 Advertising 631-6900/8840 News/Phmo 631-5323 Systems 631-8839 Sports 631-4543 Fax 631-6927 Scene/Saint Mary's 631-4540 Viewpoint E-Mail Viewpoint. I@nd.edu Day Editor/Viewpoint 631-5303 Ad E-Mail observer@darwin.cc.nd.edu Office Manager/General Information 631-7471 News E-Mail observer.obsncws.1@nd.edu 


¦ THE BELLE OF SAINT MARY'S 

Laughing at Myself: (a.k.a.) Mocking My Own Crap 
The character trait l pride myself on the most is the distinctly unhirable ability to mock crap. l can just kick the crap out of crap. This doesn't mean 
Mary Beth Ellis 
that I myself am incapable of generat­ing crap; on the contrary, as an English and political science major, crap emanates from me, on command, on a daily basis. Plucking analyses and theo­ries directly from one's posterior region is a way of life here in the liberal arts. 
Perhaps the most outstanding crap I've ever produced is the sniveling resume cover letter I am preparing to sling at newspaper editors across the fruited plain in a vain attempt to secure a means of generating crap profession­ally. Behold my own crap and the deserved mocking of it: 
"Mr. Paul F. Knue 
The Cincinnati Post 
125 East Court Street #500 
Cincinnati, Oil 45202" 
(To: The Office Containing the Waste 
Basket In Which This Cover Letter Will Soon Reside, Cincinnati, OH, 45202.) 
"Dear Mr. Knue:" 
(I find you very attractive.) 
"I am a senior ... " (I've been promoted to Level Four in Crap Production.) 
" ... at Saint Mary's College in Notre Dame, Indiana... " (By the way. I AM A CATHOLIC.) 
" ... who will graduate in May ... " 
(Indictments pending) 
" ... with two valuable degrees -one in writing, the other in political 
science-" 
(Upon graduation, I will be moving directly out of the dorm and into a cardboard box.) 
" ... and I would like to pursue a career as a newspaper wriier." 
(I missed the auditions to perform in the "Rock 'n' Roll Roundup Revue" at Six Flags Over Georgia next summer.) 
"I have developed an intense interest in working with THE CINCINNATI POST ... " 
( ... because McDonald's turned me down.) 
" ... through my heavy extracurricular involvement in student media ... " 
(One Tuesday night in my sophomore year, I did homework on the same floor of the student union where the campus radio station is located.) 
" ... and lifelong experience as a Cincinnatian." 
(My qualifications include growing up surrounded by Marge Schott, Larry Flynt, an early quasi-sleazy form of the current Jerry Springer and Boomer Esiason. You'll hire me now. won't you?) 
"Through my work with THE OBSERVER, the student newspaper co­sponsored by Saint Mary's College and our close-knit brother school, the University of Notre Dame ... " 
(Sometimes, if we are very, very good, they let us gaze directly upon the Dome free of charge.) 
" ... I have developed the skills for· producing humorous commentary and editorials." 
(That's right, Paul Knue! This is your lucky day! You now have the opportu­nity to hire one wacky, wacky, gal!) 

"It is this type of writing that I most enjoy and f'eel that it dynamically uti­lizes my analytical and communication skills." 
(Most of my columns were written while drunk.) 
"Ho.weve,:-I come to you simply eager to wnte ... 
(Oh, God, hire me. Just hire me. Obituaries. Debutante action. "The Shopping Times·." Anything.) 
"I offer a great deal of solid experi­ence and class instruction in a wide range of journalistic genres, including writing hard news articles, human interest features and news features." 
(In the fall of 1996, I bestowed upon the world a scintillating, hard-hitting article featuring the complex life and gritty convictions of the guy who played the Notre Dame Leprechaun at football games. Also, at one point in my Jour111.1lism 201 class, we watched "All the President's Men.") 
"In addition to my reporting skills, I also enjoy 'insider' knowledge of Cincinnati society, history and atti­tudes." 
(I know, first hand, the considerable degree to which the Bengals suck.) 
"Enclosed is my resume and some writing samples -a humor colnmn ... " (Ha ha! Wacky gal, remember?) 
" ... and a feature on the University or Notre Dame's Glee Club." 
(Scored a date with a baritone doing the research interviews, which of course was the main objective of the entire article.) 
" ... for your consideration." 
(The rampant typographical. gram­
matical and stylistic errors arc merely 
a part of their charm.I 

¦ DOONESBURY GARRY TRUDEAU 
RaAM?!!5 -mAOIING A IMG'lli/<. a,4!5!5ATPIA!-/J/3N. /5"11-{AT /MRJl<TANTf' 
SOHOW 19 "TR!JTl.ll'IRRIV£I? :rmm-
AT!'R/6(Jf<{)(JGt,Y, 7HROU6H 7HINK50. 
,,,, SOCl?A77C t:JIA!-06Ul3.I 

\ 
"I will be in Cincinnati on winter broak from Dec. 20 to Jan. 9 if you would like to discuss my credentials." 
(The details of the summer I spent parking cars are awaiting your perusal. Please take a number.) 
"I am looking forward to speaking with you regarding employment oppor­tunities with HIE CINCINNATI POST." 
(Says Paul Knue: "Thank you and cheese off. Please don't let the door­knob hit you in the ass on the way out. Next?") 
"I appreciate your time and attnn­tion." 
(I am on the verge of selling vital organs in order to pay off the interest on my student loan.) 
"Sincerely," (And I really -sincerely really ­mean it) 
"Mary Beth Ellis" ("Soon to be seen on an unemploy­ment line near you.") 
"Enclosures: resume, writing sam­ples." 
(Enclosures: List of the one job .I ever held not involving a drive-through win­dow and two ()()0. word articles written while drunk.) 
Mary Beth Ellis (the woman. the leg­end), who is fully aware that the best part of wakin' up is Folgers in your cup, is a senior at Saint Mary's College (she's never heard ofit, either) major­ing in two different categories of crap creation (English writing and political science) with a minor in the rehashing of old crap (U.S. history). Her column appears every other Tuesday. 
The views expressed in this column are those ofthe author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
¦ Quon: OF THE DAY 
'sobriety's a real turn-on for me. You can see what you're doing.' 


VIEWPOINT 
Tuesday, December 8, 1998 -------------------os~ERYER ------------------------page9 
¦ Nor PEACE, BUT THE SWORD 
The Vast Right Wing Conspiracy 
I admit it. It's a conspiracy. l'vo kopt it silont for too long -it's Lime to comn dean and tdl the truth. /\II oftlw 
all11gations 
against tho 
Womrn1's
Sean 
Hr.sour('.(\ 
Contr.r am 
l'also. This 
wonderful 
institution 
nuvnr rnc­

----------------ommenderl that any woman go lo an abort.ion clinic. No wonrnn camn forward to tdl tlrn Univ1irsity that tlrn cnntnr had giwn them abortion rf'forrals. Thny W(lrt' simply dm:oys, smHar artists. "crnepy litthi snitt:hes" in the words of 0111i. In fart. tlw WHC library is a modd of b,llance and rlivnrsity. FPminist advocacy is only a part of what they <lo. Tlwy, of' coursn, accuratnly rnpr(isPnt the opinions ol' ill! parties n•lating to gender issues, including those of' llw Ch11f'd1. Tim Wonwn's Cf'ntnr has always adnd within tlw conlirws of our Catholic morality. Any infor­1•ncn to llw conlrary is a scurrilous distortion. usually 1·oncoctPcl by nw; it was my conspiratorial vitriol that snwarml tlwsn saintly pm)ple. Tlw sanrn is tnw with our opprnssPd. downtrodden h111nos1ixual cornmunity. I. llm hellish Vinck. tlrn knave David Fn•cldoso. thn hatnful Luke Whilo and our cohorL'i arP molivall'cl by a particular animus towards homnsnx­uals. our mncm·n for this issue having nothing to do with upholding Church lnarhing. lndocd. our homopho­bia is root1•d in a dticp s1ins1i of intolPrancn that prc­dudns us f'rom tlw und(irstanding that sodomy can lnad onn lo a ).,'rnatnr awarennss of his vocation. It was this homophobia that blinded us lo that mod­f'l'n-day proplwt f!cv. David Carrick. I am responsible for tlrn atmosphere that drovn him from this University. lndmid. I. and otlwrs like nm, l'orcnd him to resign to proltist bigotry. No. the nstrnmwd Fr. Garrick had no political motives. No. Im didn't covertly assist Cl.ND/SMC. llis "susp1•11sion" f'rom tho flasilica of the Sarrml Ilearl was organimd by a group of homophobes operating deep within the caverns of the University bureaw:racy -this Sllspension had nothing to do with tht\ fitcl that only a linite number of priests can perform sacra11m11lo; in tlw Basilica. ,\Jo. it was tile hateful atmos­plwn• Lhat my cohorLo; and I p11rpetuatcd which forced Saint Garrick away. Trun to form, our campai).,'n of' distortion has even alt.tcked that pillar of Catholic faith. that center of piety, tlui Notrn Damn Theology department. Professors Mc Brinn. ll'Angelo and the rnst have no political agen­da. 'f'hey arn fully in communion with the lloly Father. They too arn the victims of' tho religious right on this campus-organized, Nazi-like f'undamentalists who hale their divinn, principled defense of academic freedom. l latd'ul and unenlightennd undergraduates throw incen­diary terms fikn "herntic" and "apostate" at these paragons of' virtue, pursuing a right-wing campaign of derision. lmllied it is my close-minded attitude, and oth­nrs with a similar disposition, who hinder unfettered acad(1mic inquiry, which 11nlightened porson knows is tlm lrnart of a lilmral education -the Women's Center and ilo; allins told us so! My suggestion that certnin lhculty resign in protest ilownd from this same spring of' intolerance. This is another pince in the puzzle of my nefarious scheme. In my weekly convorsations with Hichard Mellon Scaife, he outlirwd for me. with thn assistance of William F. Buckley and others. a plan to rid this University of our enlightcrrnd profossors in order to rnako Notrn Dame a havnn of'right-wing lunacy. The truth or tho matt(1r is that our leftist faculty mem­bnrs aro rnodnls of scholarship; they have never promot­pc) twit, politiciwd curriculum in their courses. Of' course, all of' this conspiring takes money. Thanks to the tremendous financial assistance of Buckl(ly and Scaif'n, Hight Hnason has now accumulatnd enough monny to launch homophobic "inner warrior" retrnaL'> with tlrn intention of' further oppressing the sainted homosexuals. Wn have so much money that we could comP. out pvery week ii' we wanted lo. Thanks to all of this covert mmmy, Right Reason has its own suite of ofliws. computms and paid staff. No one ever sees these otlices because WP kcnp them hidden. So. all of' this semester's controversy is my fault. The left wingr.rs arn thu victims of one of the most diabolical conspirncins in tlrn history of the world, much akin to tlm right wing agitation that shamcl11ssly accus11d Bill Clinton of having sex with Monica Lewinsky. 
Vinck 

Sran Vinck is a sophomore PLS major. I /is column appears every other Tuesday. '/Jw views expressed in this column arc those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Obser11er. 
¦ GUEST COLUMN 

The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child: A Progress Report on US 
~====~===~=====~ 
Ratification  
The UN Convention on the Bights  ing the text, I found no support for  Ombudsman that will hear griev­ 
of the Child (CHC) was adopted by  these accusations. In actuality, the  ances. The Unites States could also  
the General Assembly of the UN on  CHC encourages family cohesion and  adopt this approach. In sum, thern is  
Nov.20.1989. As stalC'd in tho pm- parental empowerment.  no support lhat the CBC has an anti- 
amble, the CHC's purpose is to "pro- In order to clear tlrn air on these  family orientation.  
mote social progress and bHtter  issues. I will examine the relevant  I believe that the real controversy  
standards of lifo in larger frecdorn  . clauses of the CRC in depth. First,  should center on the issue of' the US  
for all childmn." The document was  the convention promotes parental  Juvenile Justicfi Syst1im and il'i  
conceivod in 1979 during the  authority by recognizing that the  respective punishmnnts for crimes.  
International year of the Child, and  statP must respect the rights and  Article 37 of the CHC explicitly pro- 
was completed roughly IO years  responsibilities of parents and  hibits the use of capital punishmf111t  

later. Over 40 countries helped ere-ate the treaty, with the United Stales as an active participant. According lo the Youth advocate 
Program's International Report in Spring of 1997, issues such as liter­acy, infant mortality, abuse and 
neglect became the focus orcon­cern during the convention. Statistics of a rising infant mortali-Ly. the decline in literacy and the 
ris1i in the number of orpharn!d chi!­dren worldwide wern attributed to the escalation of povnrty and armed conflicts in certain member coun­
tries. As a result. the CRC enumer­ates a snt of internationally recog­nized goals for individuals to achieve on behalf of childnm. These goals includn, but arP not limited to: protnction from violence, abuse and abduction; protection from hazardous employment and 1ixploilation; aclequatn nutrition; free compulsory education; adc­quatc health care; equal treat­ment regardless of gender, race or cultural background; the right to 11xpress opinions and freedom of thought in matters affecting thr.m; and safe exposurrlaccess to leisure, play, culture and art. However, the overriding factor in the document is the primary role of families and parents in pro­tecting children's rights. The treaty is meant to influnnce the actions of individuals as well as suggest a general course of action for governments. 
The treaty has been ratified by 191 nations, and is thereby one of the most widely ratified human ~ righl<; treaties in history (Source: ~ Unicef "United Nations Convention on the Hights of the Child: Frequently Asked Questions" brochure, p.1 ). This broad-based consensus on the importance of children's rights is both encouraging and indicative of the global responsibility to stop human rights abuse in its most base form. To date. there are only two countries that have not ratified the UN CRC treaty. Unfortunately, the United States is one of those countries. 
But. it is thr. historically slow-mov­ing US process of ratification rathor than majority opposition from the Congress that has prevented the immediate ratification of this treaty. President Clinlnn supports the CRC, and signed the treaty in 1995. Insofar as opposition goes, there is one main faction that opposes the CBC. This faction is comprised of a small number of conservative orga­nizations and consrrvative Senators led by Sen. Jesse llnlms {Sources: Unicnl"'UN CHC: Frequently Asked questions" brochure, p.2 . and the Children's Defonse Fund report enti­tied "America's Childnm falling Behind: The United States and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child" p. 9). Their main concern is that the convention is not family-friendly because it undermines parental authority, encourages chi!­dren to sue their parents and encourages abortion. When examin-

M • h I 
IC e e 
C t

OS e11 O 
extended family to provide guidance for the child (Article 5, UN CHC). Second, the CRC encourages family relationships through its support of a national policy for both paid and unpaid parental leave (Source: above-mentioned Children's Defense 
Fund report, p.9). According to Children's Defense Fund research, this is an area where the US has failed to live up to the international standards set by tho CRC. Many US families are not able to stay home with children during the critical stages of the child's life because there is no natinnal parental leave policy that facilitates mandatory paid or unpaid leave periods. Third, the convention specifically states that "every child has an inherent right to life," and therefore the State has an obligation to ensure thn child's survival and development (Article 6, UN CHC). Here, we find that Article 6 rebuts the opposition's claim tlmt the convention supports abortion. Fourth, the convention does sprcify in Article 12 that chil­dren have the right to have their grievances lteard. However, this clause should not be construed to grant children the right to sue their parents. Other countries, such as Sweden. have chosen to address this issue by instituting a children's for minors (defined as young people 
under the age of 18). Ilownver, the US allows capital punishment for minors. In addition, this policy has a significant support base among Urn 
American poople. When I visited the Crossroads Juvenile Detontion Center with the Children and Poverty seminar in New York. I was told that capital punishment is acceptable for minors in Nnw York 
Stat!,, and is supported by votnrs who vinw this as an important way to be "tough on crime." In many cases, it is the morn threat of' the death penalty that can act as a dnterrnnt for minors who might become involved in capital crimns. 
Here, I would recommend that the US Congress tak(i a reserva­tion on the capital punishment clause. This would allow the US to ratify the rest of the UN Convention on the High ts of' the Child while retaining US capital punishment policy. 
As a final note, I would add that the US Juvenile .Justice system is taking a positive approach to rehabilitation that respecLo; the rights of tho child. In the case of the Crossroads .Juvenile Detention Center mentioned above, the staff has institutnd a positive reinforcement system that rewards behavior changes in the inmates. This positive rein­forcement system gives juveniles tangible privileges such as 
, increased visitor time, outdoor rncreation time and use of video games if they reject their destruc­tive behavior patterns. Staff members commented that they have benn extremely successful with this positive-incentivn sys-tern approach. Mayor Giuliani commented on the success of the city's juveniln justice staff by stat­ing that the new facilities (includ­ing Crossroads) have allowed 
, teachers, counselors. case man­agers and support staff to work more effectively with youths and families. In addition, he says, 
"They have developed award win­ning intervention strategies that have been effective at preventing recidivism and juvenile delinquency" (New York City Department of .Juvenile Justice Newsletter, Winter 1998. "Mayor's Message", p.2). This innovative approach to Juvenile .Justice punishment respects the rights of the child and promotes the ideals of the CHC in terms of foster­ing childhood devnlopment. Therefore. the Crossroads facility is largely fulfilling the specifications of the CHC, even though it is working within a system that supports tlm death penalty for minors. Here, we can sec the importance of ratifying the Convention on the High ts of the Child in the US evun ifwe take a reservation on the capital punish­ment clause. 
Michele Costello is a senior in the College ofArts and Letters. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those ofthe author and not necessarily those ofThe Observer. 


WWW 0 
C 
s 
page 10 OBSERVER ----------~Tuesday, December 8, 1998 
7. Electric Christmas tree lights were first used in: 
A) 1944 B) 1895 C) 1976 
D) 1492 

8. Medieval English Christmas pantomimes did NOT include which char­acter? 
A) St. Nicholas 
B) The Bold Slasher 
C) Father Christmas 
D) The Turkish Knight 
9. The name of Scrooge's deceased business partner in Charles Diqkens' "A Christmas Carol" was: 
A) Bob Cratchit 
B) Jerry Cornelius 
C) Bill Sykes 

D) Jacob Marley 
10. In North America, chil­dren put stockings out at Christmas time. Their Dutch counterparts use: 
A) Old hats 
B) Beer mugs 


C) Shoes 
D) Stockings, just like every 
body else! 
11. Which of these events did NOT occur on Christmas Day? 
A) Ebenezer Scrooge was visited by four ghosts 

B) Charlemagne was crowned Roman Emperor 
C) Hong Kong fell to the Japanese in World War 11 
D) King Arthur pulled Excalibur from the stone 
12. In Syria, Christmas gifts are distributed by: 
A) The Three Kings 
B) Tom o'Bedlam 
C) One of the Wise Men's camels 
D) Father Christmas 
Test 
our Chr 
Take a little quiz to get into the holiday spirit and test your Christmas IQ 
1. In "We Three Kings of Orient Are, 11 what are the frankincense and myrrh the wise men bring? 
A) Gold tablets highly prized for their value 
8) Plants with medicinal value 
C) Sweet-smelling gum resins 
D) Coins made from precious metals 
2. What carol is also known as "Greensleeves11 ? 
A)"The Holly and the Ivy" B)"King Jesus Hath a Garden" 
C) "O Christmas Tree" D)"What Child Is This?" 
3.Who was Good King Wenceslas? 
A) Duke of Bohemia in the 10th century 
8) Ruler of Bethlehem -he helped Mary and Joseph find a room for the night 
C) King of Egypt when Christ was born 
D) King of Germany when Christ was born 
E) An imaginary character created for the song 
4. What brings Frosty the Snowman to life? 
A)His corncob pipe and button nose B)The children's laughter C)The traffic cop's whistle D)An o!d silk hat E)The sun 
5. The first instrument on which the carol "Silent Nighf' was played was: 
A) A harp 
B) A pipe organ 
C) A guitar 
D) A kazoo 
6. In Guatemala, Christmas Day is celebrated: 
A) On Jan. 6 
B) On Dec. 25 
C) On Oct. 31 
D) Never 



s ~

C en 

--....... Tuesday, December 8, 1998 0BSfRVER page I I 
B) Snowball fights between rival courtiers 
C) A swimming race across the English Channel 
•
fl 
ts!

tmas 
13. One notable medieval English Christmas celebration featured: 
D) Huge crackers that sometimes exploded fatally 

V 14. In Sweden, a common Christmas decoration is the Julbukk, a small figurine ... of a goat. It is usually made of what material? 
A) Candy 
B) Straw 
C) Uranium 
D) Fir wood 
15. The real St. Nicholas lived: 
A) At the North Pole 
8) On the island of Malta 
C) In Turkey 
D) In Holland 

16. Quick: How many items would you have if you were given all the gifts in "The Twelve Days of Christmas"? 
A)12 
----8)24 
C)39 
0)78 
E)101 

17. Believe it or not, one Indiana town is called: 
A) Christmasville 
B) Wenceslas 
C) Noel 
D) Santa Claus 

18. The poem commonly known as The Night Before Christmas was originally titled: 

A) Santa's Secret Visit B) A Visit from St. Nicholas 
C) The Night Before Christmas for more quiz questions go to www.home­arts.com and www.familygames.com
D) The Midnight Guest 



Christmas Quiz Answers: 
1) C 2) D 3) A,Wenceslas was the Duke of Bohemia in the 10th century. He was a f~1ivent Christian who was slain by his brother and later sainted. 4) D 5) C, The carol was first sung as part of a church service in Austria. A guitar was used because the church organ was so badly rusted it couldn't be played. 6) B, Guatemalan adults, however,do not exch~Dge gifts until New Year's Day. Children get theirs (from the Christ Child) on Christmas morning. 7) B, The idea for using electric Christm'as lights came from an American, Ralph E. Morris. The new lights proved safer than the traditional candles. 8) A, In Medievar England; Nicholas was just another saint-he had not yet metamorphosed into Santa Claus and had nothing to do with Christmas. 9) D, Jacob Marley's spirit was the first of four to appear to Scrooge on Christmas Eve. 10} C, Shoes -traditionally, the shoes used are wooden ones called sabots. 11) A, Ebenezer Scrooge was visited by four ghosts.The four spirits appeared to Scrooge on Christmas Eve, not Christmas Day. 12) C, One of the Wise Men's camels -The gift-giving camel is said to have been the smallest one in the Wise Men's caravan. 13) A, A giant, 165-pound pie. The giant pie was nine feet in diameter. Its ingredients included 2 bushels of flour, 20 pounds of butter, 4 geese, 2 rabbits, 4 wild ducks, 2 woodcocks, 6 snipes, 4 partridges, 2 newts' tongues, 2 curlews, 6 pigeons and 7 blackbirds. 14) B, Straw -A variety of straw deco­rations are a usual feature of Scandinavian Christmas festivities. 15) C, In Turkey -St. Nicholas was bishop of the Turkish town of Myra in the early 4th century. It was the Dutch who first made him into a Christmas gift~giver, and Dutch settlers brought him to America where his name eventually became the familia( Santa Claus. 16) D 17f D 18) B, A Visit From Saint Nicholas 
.. '
' 

page 12 The Observer• SPORTS Tuesday, December 8, 1998 
¦ COLLEGE BASKETBALL 
Terps pound hapless Demons 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON 
Tuence Morris matched his career-high with 22 points and No. 2 Maryland wasn't able to put away DePaul until the final min­utes Monday night as the Terrapins beat the Blue Demons 92-75 in the championship gamn of the BB&T Classic. 
Maryland (10-0), which had its first close game of the season in b('.ating No. 6 Stanford 62-60 in the openin-g round, seemed on the way to another blowout, leading 29-11 with 7:19 left in the first half. 
But DePaul (5-2), which starts three freshmen, closed the half with a 24-14 run to get within 43­35 and three first-year players scored all the points in the spurt. 
As the pro-Maryland crowd of 18,244 at the MCI Center waited

...­
for tht' run that would make the game like thr first eight of the sea­son \\'hirh the Terrapins won by average of 32,8 points, the 13luc Demons wouldn't fold. 
A 3-pointer by Quentin Hichardson, vvho linished with 28 points. had DePaul within 50-47 with 16:20 to play. The Blue Demons, who had a five-game win­ning streak snapped, were still within 57-53 with 14:19 left on a driving basket by Willie Coleman, but that was their last field goal for a span of 6:48 and .vlaryland went on an 11-0 run with Morris, who was 10-of-11 from the field, and Juan Dixon scoring all the points. 
The closest DePaul would get the rest of the way was 79-70 on a layup by freshman Lance Williams with 3:21 to play and the Terrapins closed the game with a 13-5 run. 
Laron Profit had 15 points for Maryland, while Steve Francis, the tournament MVP who had 24 points in the win over Stanford, added 14 and Obinna Ekezie and Dixon had 12 each.. 
Richardson only had two points in the 87-79 opening win over George Washington as he shot 1­for-8 from the field in a limited 21 minutes as he turned his right ankle. 
Williams had 16 points for DePaul and the third freshman, Bobby Simmons, added 13. 
DePaul finished with a 38-32 rebound advantage, including 21­13 on the offensive end, the second game in as many nights Maryland was outrebounded. 
This was Maryland's third straight appearance in the tourna­ment championship game. The Terrapins beat George Washington in 1996 and lost to the Colonials last year. 
No. 6 Stanford 70, George Wash. 56 
Mark Madsen scored half of his 14 points during a five-minute stretch of the second half to lead No. 6 Stanford past George Washington 70-56 Monday night in the consolation game of the BB&T Classic. 
Tim Young had 12 points for the Cardinal (5-2). who were coming off successive losses to North Carolina and Maryland. Stanford outscored the Colonials 25-12 at the foul line and controlled the boards 42-33, the 15th straight time over two seasons that the Cardinal has outrebounded the opposition. 
But Stanford went 3-for-14 from 
3-point range and had a season­
high 19 turnovers. Fortunately for 
the Cardinal, the defense held the 
Colonials to 31 percent shooting. 
Yegor Mescheriakov scored 16 
points on 5-for-19 shooting for 
George Washington (3-3). Swanta 
Rogers scored 14 points, including 
four 3-pointers 
Stanford's first win since Nov. 25 
wasn't nearly as easy as <-ixpected. 
Although the Cardinal led the 
entire second half, the margin was 
only five points with 9:25 left. 
That's when Madsen took over, 
scoring six straight points -two free throws, a layup and a dunk off an alley-oop pass -to make it 61­

50. Minutes later, Madsen made a foul shot and Kris Weems followed with a 3-pointer for a 67 -54 lead with 4:33 left. 
Arthur Lee had 10 points, five assists and two steals for Stanford, which also got 10 points from Weems. 
Stanford led 36-32 at halftime despite going 1-fur-9 from 3-point range, committing 10 turnovers and enduring a six-minute stretch without a basket. The Colonials failed to take advantage because they made only 12 of 38 field goal attempts, including a 2-for-13 effort by Mescheriakov. 
No. 23 Arkansas 90, 
W. Carolina 54 

Pat Bradley scored 32 points, shooting 8-of-12 from 3-point range, as No. 23 Arkansas defeat­ed Western Carolina 90-54 Monday night. 
Arkansas (6-2) shot 59 percent from the field, including 67 per­cent 011 3-pointers. 
Senior point guard Kareem Reid, making his first start since a loss to Villanova on Nov. 22, scored 17 points for the Razorbacks. Derek Hood had 1 O points and 10 rebounds, and Sergerio Gipson also scored 10 for Arkansas. 
Western Carolina (1-6) shot just 32 percent for the game, including a woeful 24 percent in the first half. 
Western Carolina was led by 
Cory Largent, who scored 22, 
including 5-of-9 from the 3-point 
line. Casey Rogers added 18 for 
the Catamounts, all coming on 3­
point shots. 

The Razorbacks went on a 14-0 
run midway through the first half 
to take a 36-13 lead with 5:17 left 
in the half. They expanded the 
lead to 43-19 at the half and \Vere 
up 30 for most of the second half. 

Arkansas· biggest lead was 86­
47 with 4:06 remaining. 

ri11!11:~,c,1~11· 
~!ik<:\i%Ya11cs JiO1d off 
•:\s 
Packers 24-22 
,' .. ,.,.JJW.. . . .. . 
TAMPA, Fla. ··....·. Trent QilferA'inally gpt the best of Brett .Favre ... an.q. sarried tpe n)juve­
,. natea 'Tampa ·· Bay Buc~.an.~ers µ~cl( into 1 the playoffrace, · Dilfer threw · long ,,•toti¢:bdown pass,~s to .Ja.c~.~ez Greeq ant.'{ Ber~ 
E'maftu&l.ahdthe'' Bucs•· 
broke a six-game l?sing >str(?µ:k agaJn.st Greeq ·.. Baywith a 24-~2 victory 
& <:t~c:¢t the .. Packers Mon~ay night 
·,);r Favre,losing for<only the second time in 15 t,;4-rvr $ta.rt~, againSJ 'Tampa Bay, was sacked ' y,eig)ltiJimes arid lo~t one ·':'i::lf hJs six fumbles as ijre9p. ~~y (8--fil missed 
ari. Of)portunity to clinch 
a . w,ild~ca.rd pl1J.yoff
berth; . 
· Me::i,nwhile, the J3ucs 16~7:tbrightened their p.ostseason prgspl;lcts by eUrnning into a tie with New Orleans and Arizona for the final NFC wild-card spot.. with th.re,i, weeks left in the regular season.' 
Gr~~n and Emanuel, questionable for the game/after aggravating a spta.ined left ankle in pracJicets<::ored o-n the same slant pattern in 
J;hes~c:.omJ. quarter, 
· Oilier hit Green in stride crossing the .field from.the left on a. 64­... ~C~cor~ng !,lfay,the11 nil\EmanueJ crossing . ro~thefighttor .~62~ }t~idyfD that;gavethe 
' 
Bucs a 1+3 lead. 
Playing at homo .for the first time since 1983 on Monday night. Tampa Bay looked like itmight be on the verge of letting the game slip aM'ay when Favre throw a 4-yard .TD pass to Mark Chmura to trim Green Bay's deficit to l?-15 on the second play of the fourth quar­ter. 
But Derrick Mayes dropped Favre's two­point conversion pass, and the Bucs drove 52 yards after a Ma.yes fumble on the next Packers possession to put tho game out of reach on Dilfer's 6-yard TD run with 6:01 t(1 go. 
.Favre rallied the Packers again, throwing aJ•yard scoring pass to Chmura to pull within two with 2:24 left. But that was as close as Green Bay would get.. 
Turnovers and falling behind early hampered Tampa Bay throughout the losing streak to the twostime defending NFC champions, who flour­ished in part because of their ability to contain the Bucs' running game and completely shut down the passing attack. 
Dilfer, outplaying 
Favre for the first time 
in nine career meetings. 
completed only 9 of 22 
passes fof 181 yards 
and was intercepted 
once. Favre finished 29 
of41 for 262 yards. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. IO 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid.
Classifieds The charge is 3 cents per character per day, inclu.:ling all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
•ACT NOW! CALL FOR BEST  Roommates Needed  SKI CLUB MTNG. DEC.8 @ 8PM  
NOTICES  SPRING BREAK PRICES TO SOUTH PADRE (FREE  ND Apts Call X4415  PERSONAL  LA FORTUNE (?s) 277-6780  Bill, you stopped in mid-boring sen­tence...  
MEALS),CANCUN,JAMAICA,KEY- House for rent, near ND /SMC,  
Early Spring Break  WEST.PANAMA CITY.REPS  3 bdrm, sm. garage, gas heat,  "Don't Get Burned on Spring  Spoonball...Catch the fever!  Boy, oh, boy.  
Specials!Bahamas Party Cruise!6  NEEDEDfTRAVEL FREE,EARN  CA, fenced yard, nice area,  is  Break"  oh me oh, oh my oh ...  
Days $279!1ncludes most meals!  CASH.GROUP DISCOUNTS FOR  available JAN '99, rent $600.m  Spring Break Packages are going  CELESTE -You are so  down on the bayou.  
Awesome  6+.  W/D.  Call 219-923-7246.  fast.Check out our Hot Jamaica  beauliful. . .to me(and Brendan, and  
Beaches,Nightlile1Departs From  'WWW. LEISURETOURS.COM  Packages for the Class of '99!Stop  every other level-headed male on  Gee ... l wish Noreen was here.  
Florida!Cancun & Jamaica  800-838-8203.  in at Anthony Travel in the  campus)  
Air,Hotel,Meals &Parties  Male student needs roomate for  LaFortune Student Center and  Bill, it's getting LATE.  
$339!Panama City Room With  large 2 br/ Indian Lakes Apt (5  check out the best Spring Break  Can I get a "Heck Yeah!" for the  Bill, you're getting GOOFY.  
Kitchen, 7 Free Parties  CRUISE SHIP EMPLOYMENT­ mins. from campus. Must be clean.  vacations around.Get your deposit  women of Badin hall?  Especially  
$129!0aytona Room With Kitchen  Workers earn up to $2000+/month  243-8961  in by Dec.18 and save. Don't take a  Mary and her totally excellent  This week's "Shaft of the Week"  
$149 !springbreaktravel.com  (w/tips & benefits).World  chance with an unknown agency or  friends.  Thanks for all the fun  award goes to Kansas State, which  
1-800-678-6386  TravellLand-Tour jobs up to $5000·  some 1-800 number.Limited space  times, and here's looking to many  Just BARELY got into the Alamo  
#1 Spring Break Specials!Book  $7000/summer.Ask us how! 517­336-4235  FOR SALE  available,so book now! Anthony Travel.Inc.  more next semester.  Bowl. Congratulations, from all of us here at the Observer sports  
Early & Receive a Free Meal  Ext.C55841  LaFortune Student Center  Hi Nicole and Shawna. You are my  department.  
Plan!!'Cancun & Jamaica  PREPAID PHONE CARDS  631-7080  cool new friends. That's COOL,  
$399,Bahamas $459,Panama City  SEEKING CHILD CARE IN MY  198 MIN  $20  NEW, friends.  COOL.  Mc Glinn  Of course, that's better than the  
$99.  HOME for 2 well-behaved chil- CALL 258-4805  rules.  Humanitarian Bowl.  
1-800-234-7707  dren.1 •3 Days A Week,  Full Color Desktop Publishing  
..  endlesssummertours.com ILOST & FOUNDI  7:30-5:30.11 Interested, Call 631­7051. Sitter for CUTE young boys for next sem. 9·10 hrs/wk. Must be avail  FOR SALE. LIVE PHISH CDS! Bed box set. not available In U.S. call pete at 251-0178. Beautiful brass bed,queen size.with  Services are now available at The Copy Shop in LaFortune. Design, Scanning, Printing and Copying in COLOR!  Bruinball...catch the flu. And now, it's time for the Observer trivia queslion of the day. Today's question comes to us from  But not by much. Blue turf? You've got to be kidding me! "I believe in America."  
COOi.  l{ OlfiO  JOCIUJJ 111;9,  Mon. afts.  orthopedic mattress set and deluxe  Rockland, Maine. For five points:  If I see Mallrats one more time...  
engraved Megan E. Driscoll.  other hrs flex. Need car. 237-1981  frame.New.never used,still in plas•  Join the ND Ski Club  
REWARD' Piease call 273-9155.  tic.$225  ?s call 2 77-6 780  Q: What were the first four words ol  Hey!  Nice socks!  
Thank you!  219-862-2082  'The Godfather'  
Lost: Red Tommy Hilfiger necktie at Dillon SYR Please call 1-0783 if  FOR RENT  Smith Corona Word Processor  THE OBSERVER'S last issue is Wednesday, Dec. 9. Get your  The answer will appear later on in these classifieds.  If I had a hammer... l'd pound cross­es into the ground for Amnesty International at 7 am  
found.  Like New  Hollday classifieds in before 2:30  
Lost 11122: Silver bracelet. senti· mental value dan 4-0951  ROOMS IN PRIVATE HOME FOR ND/SMC EVENTS. VERY CLOSE TO CAMPUS. 243-0658  $100 080 x1554  Tuesday.  Now for the bonehead dining hall remark of the week, said to me by that nice lady who runs the deli sec- Remember ... lrish play the Huskies at 7:00 in the JACC. Basketball doesn't get any better than this.  
lion of the North Dining Hall. ..  
WANTED  BED 'N BREAKFAST REGISTRY­rooms-FB-JPW-GRAD 291-7153.  For Sale· Digitech RP-20 Floor Effects  we·re open extended hours during the finals study weekend.  "Does it look like we have any rolls  I'd hammer in the morning. I'd hammer in the evening.  
SPRING BREAK '99!  1,2,3,4.5,6 BDRM HOMES. NEAR  Processor/Preamp Only 1 year old, ex  condition.  Fri. 12/11 7:30am-Midnight Sat 12112 1 Garn-Midnight  here?"  All over South Quad.  
Cancun· Nassau· Jama,ca·Mazatlan •Acapulco·Bahamas Cruise•FIorida•south Padre  CAMPUS. GILLIS PROPER­TIES.272-6551  List: $799.99, asking $450.00 or b/o. Call 287-9910, ask for Brendan  Sun. 12/13 10am-Midnight THE COPY SHOP Lafortune Student Center  Congratulations, ma'am. You win a prize. I'll tell you when I feel like it.  The answer to the bonus question is...aw, I forget. Go rent the movie.  
Travel Free and make lots of Cash!Top reps are offered full-time  House for rent, 105 Marquette, 5 bedrooms, available now and lor  Ask your parents to buy you this  BONUS QUESTION. For twenty-five points:  ND Video is never open, how can I?  
staff jobs.Lowest price Guaranteed.Call now for details!  next fall, 232·6964  car. Reliable 4-dr Olds Calais.A/C,auto trans.cassette.  SKI TEAM T-SHIRTS SOLD AT DINING HALLS ON WED.  Q: What were the first four words of  Go borrow it from a hockey player.  
www.classtravel,com 800/838-6411  Room for Rent in Turtle Creek apartments Call 273,2435.  $4100 OBO Call 232-5398  DEC.9TH AT DINNER  'Happy Gilmore'?  And, I said, what about breakfast at Tiffany's? (Hi Tiffney.)  

If you know this, you 
Tuesday, December 8, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 13 
¦ GYMNASTICS ¦ OLYMPIC HOCKEY 
Moceanu faces legal battle 
A~.'iocia t.::d f>ress: immediately returned Monday boen granted a. restraining 
to The Associated Press. order against Dumitru 
IIOUSTON Yarrell said she was con­Moceanu. 

The parents of' gymnast cerned that if a judge granted On Wednesday, Moceanu and Dominique Mocoauu won't get the parents' motion, they would her parents will appear before an opportunity to question their use the session to speak to the state District Judge John daughtnr about her accusations gymnast in their native Montgomery, who will deter­against her fathor beforo the Homanian languago, as they mine whether to make the Umw moet in a courtroom this had in at least one other meet­restraining order permanent. week, a judge rulml Monday. ing with tlrnir daughter. Yarrell The restraining order request. 
Cam1d ia and Du mitru chara!"ierized the behavior as marks a deApening rift between Moc,\anu had roquostod that an intimidation tactic. the gymnast and her family th1iir attoriwy Im allownd lo "Later she told me that she that began last October, when 1pwslin11 th1! 17-year-ol<I gold felt that they wore putting the Houston-area teen-ager rn,idali~I lrnl'orn a judge on incredible pressure on her at !led her home, hired a lawyer Wml111istlay considHrs making that time," Yarrr.ll said. and then sued to be declared pnrma1wnl a lumporary Spr.aking through publicist an independent adult. rmaraini11g order barring con­.Janey Millor, Moceanu said she She was granted adult status tai:l lmtwnnn lhn gymnast and folt "very good." about the Oct. 2K. allowing lrnr to begin hor l'attwr. Monday ruling. making inquiries about how 
lh1t Mucoanu 's cuurt-appoint­In court affidavits filed a her earnings have been spent. NI altorrwy, Ellen YMrell. chal­week ago, the Olympian She has claimed that her trust lenged Urn request and asked claimnd her father had hired a rund bankrolled unauthorized that il bn block(id. Associate private investigator to track her risky investments and a $4 mil­
(tl(lgn Michanl !lay compliml. comings and goings. Moceanu lion gym bearing her name. 
"We thought it was inappro­also said police officers However, it is not known how priat.n. tt Yarrnll said Mrrnday. informed her that her father much was in thA trust or how "Wn of'fered to answer written had negotiated to pay a hit man much has been spent. qwislions." $ I0,000 to kill a friend, 32-There was no answer at the 
llowcv«-r, Katheritrn yoar-olct Brian Huggins, and Moceanu family home Monday Scardino. allorney for Luminita Miscenco, 26. the and a messagn lefl for the par­M()ceanu's parnnts, rejected coach Moc(ianu credits with ents at the family's private that ol'f'm·, Yarrell said. nwiving her carper. gymnasium was not immediate­
Calls to Scardino wern not Both she and Huggins have ly returned to the AP. 


Associated Press 

PHOENIX 
The future of NHL participa­tion in the Olympics remained in doubt Monday despite draw­ing praise during the first day of the league's annual Board of Governors meeting. 
Other issues discussed during the day included: this season's two-referee experiment; over­time options to help break ties; how well offseason tinkering has worked to increase scoring; and the status of troubled fran­chises in Pittsburgh and New York's Long Island. 
"We were given an Olympic update, and we're waiting to see what arrangements we can make that would make it sensi­ble for us to go,6 NHL commis­sioner Gary Bettman said. 
The issue has been a thorny one since the Nagano Olympics in February. The NHL took a three-week break to allow play­ers to skate for their national teams, only to see CBS relegate the games to its late-night show. 
"We're on a 60-to 90-day window to either do this or not," Bettman said. "As a prac­tical matter ,it's got to be resolved sometime in February, because the national federa­lions have to put teams togeth­er." 
Colin Campbell, the NIIL's senior vice president of hockHy operations, said the new two­referee,two-linesman system has streamlined games without congesting the playing area. 
"The flow is better and the obstruction is less," he said, explaining that one referee can hang back and make sure that players stay within the rules away from the puck while the other skatos ahoad of the rush up-ice. 
It's an advantagn that Campbell believes accounts for a drop in lighting to an avorage of 1.3 fights per gamn from 1.6 last year. 
Officials now also arc able to watch the jostling around tho net beforn making in-the­crease calls. 
Bettman said the governors wouldn't decide at this meeting whether to make the experi­ment permanent or use it in playoff games. 
"We have it scheduled through February games," he said. "There's no reason to make a judgment until all the data is in, so if they continue to perform well we'll use it." 
Deterrents to the program are the cost and the amount of training it takes to send anoth­er NHL-calibnr reforcc onto the ice. 
"Can you go to 54 teams instead of 27 like that without watering it down'?" Campbell said. "It's not an easy business. We're finding that out." 
The governors also discussed creating a $300 million collec­tive bargaining fund and renewed their working agree­ment with the Canadian I lockey League's cluster ofjunior major teams. 

ltha 

rd 
out! 
Use Observer Classifieds. 



page 14 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 
NEWOJU.~~ Chris ..· So~lf(j:; •'a,;,{5~ Louisiana native.~:t>:alw · 
wanted to coach TuJ#;qe ball, saw his wish come on.Monday, · :.. 
Scelfo,wa~"c Ute'' progta'm Bowden turned, al loser to -tlie l!)th.;;l'll~e team in th~ cou 
heCilcrne ,Clem 
coach la.st week. SceJfo;<aJf ~~~l~t~ 
. Georgiathe last'JbttY;¼ mM wit½i*the '0~ pl;;iyers.-~?ndl.ly "' 
ately took, over the' ''Libe;r~t ·· .·. , .. ,., .,, , ,, "' 
against .JJrigharu.;'YJY\i~-g,9:q ,. Dec. 3L ·• <,,:,,;;¢/;f£i.>,
"My first orde~ Qf business r. is to get,ow.•. ga~i~~ the bowl•0in plaoe·aµ'd teady ,for:praqtJ,s~.;"";$ee ...... 
said. 'Tm glad we ,bav~:the 
game to work on<It'.~ give f!lf ··. )y1:tr~. "' ,
pfaJers)\chan¢eJQ..geJJ9 .·,· ,iUlµ< ,rQ 
knowme.'' · ·· · ...•. ,;not ·· "•·" , "'' Scelfo was sele·~ted. o'\fe1· ;ao· .. ,; a.nassistil-q~<fdr}l9'' Tulane offensive--<10ordinator years,.......hefQf~r;PQ91ming. 
Rich Rodriguez,_ whtj was the Tulane'$ coath,; stayed avthe choice of the players and had school only two years, snap-· been recommended · by ping a, 15*year hoQ•Winning Bowden. streakhis. first year and going 
"I· can't talk," running back 1l-0this season:. · Toney Converse said pointing Scl:llfo, 35. pJans to stay to his eyes. UI just found out. I longer than that. · . .· can't believe it." ''I am where I dreamed 
The players' unhappiness about as a kid, where l want can be overcome, Scelfo said .. to be for the rest ofmy life," "Most ofthem loved the coach Scelfo said, "Y9u've heard before Bowden too," he said, that said before, that's the "Nobody likes change." lasttime you'll hearit here;" 
·­...--··-····-··--···-···-· 
--.. 
. •­
..--.. 
. 
..--.. 
..
-

I 
I 
I 
Tuesday, December 8, 1998
The Observer• SPORTS 

Williams honored by AP 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Ricky Williams returned for his final year at Texas with modest goals: Win games and have fun. 
Mission accomplished, and he still gets to play in the Cotton Bowl. 
On Monday, Williams won The Associated Press' first College Player of the Year Award in balloting by AP member newspapers, TV and radio stations. 
"Anytime you are considered the best it's t'lattering," Williams said, "and to be picked the top player in col­lege football by the reporters who watch the games so close­ly is truly an honor." 
Williams provided college football fans with an extra special season. While running for 2,214 yards and 27 touch­downs -he also had a TD reception -Williams became major college football's career rushing lead.er and carried his team to an 8-3 record and a Cotton Bowl matchup against Mississippi State on Jan. 1. 
"If I was to tell someone before the season that we were going to win eight games, they would have told me I was crazy," Williams said. "For us to come together as a team and surprise so many people with how we played was extra special." 
Williams received 76 of the 
143 votes in the AP balloting, 
easily outdistancing Kansas 
State quarterback Michael 
Bishop, who had 17 votes. 
Kentucky quarterback Tim 

Couch was third with 15 votes. 
On Saturday, Williams will be the overwhelming favorite to win the Heisman Trophy, given each year to college football's most outstanding player. 
Watching Williams play turned into lots of fun for everyone except the Longhorns' opponents. Just ask Texas A&M. 
When he ripped off a 60­yard touchdown run against the Aggies on Nov. 27, he broke Tony Dorsett's career rushing record and started the Longhorns on their way to a 26-24 upset. He finished the game with 259 yards, giving him a career total of 6,279 yards to Dorsett's 6,082 from 1973-76. 
The record-setting run was typical. Needing 11 yards to pass Dorsett's 22-year-old mark, Williams shed a tackler near the line of scrimmage, ran nearly 60 yards and then carried an Aggies defensive back into the end zone. 
"That's a run I'll remember for the rest of my life,"Texas coach Mack Brown said. 
Williams owns 15 other NCAA records, including most career touchdowns (75). points (452) and all-purpose yards (7,206). He also aver­aged a record 6.22 yards per carry. 
Couch, who owns his share 
of records, recently said 
Williams was the best player 
in the country. 
"As many times as he car­
ries the ball. he's just as 
strong in the fourth quarter as 
he is in the first 
..................
.. -. ­
•• .. 
. 
., 
• -.. 
...
-
-..
•
-
quarter,"Couch said. "He's an amazing player." 
Records don't matter much to Williams. Helping his team turn into a winner again under a new coach was anoth­er reason he returned to Austin instead of bolting to the NFL. 
"I think the thing that excites me the most about winning an award like this is the fact that people are giving me credit for having an impact on my team,"Williams said. "That's what has always been the most important thing to me, helping the team win games." 
As all great runners do, Williams credits his offensive line, but he takes things a step further. After all, the Longhorns were trying to rebound from one of the worst seasons in their storied histo­ry. 
"I couldn't have achieved 
any of the honors I am receiv­
ing without the help of my 
teammates, "he said. "They 
sacrificed so much and 
worked so hard to help me 
have a great year. This team 
is a real special one. We all 
worked so well together and 
had a lot of fun." 
UCLA quarterback Cade 
McNown was fourth in the vot­
ing, followed by North 
Carolina State wide receiver 
Torry Holt, Ohio State quar­
terback Joe Germaine, Central 
Florida quarterback Daunte 
Culpepper, Wisconsin running 
back Ron Dayne, Louisiana 
Tech wide receiver Troy 
Edwards and Florida State 
wide receiver Peter Warrick. 

I 
l -I -­

page 15 

Tuesday, December 8, 1998 ____ ------------~T~he~O-_::b::-:-se~rv~e::_r_•__-:S::..:P:_O=...=R-=-T=-S~-~===================================::-----i 
¦ NFL 
Owners mull over 'replay' 
Associated Press had convinced him that there objections lo the old system. 
were enough votes to approvu which used a replay official in 
NEWYOHK the proposal a booth and was filled with 

/\f'tnr two W(mks of" wnll-pub-The "no" votes last March endless challenges and endless 1icized officiating gaf'l'os, the came from snve11 loams that delays, some lasting longer NFL is rnnsidPring a rnl11rn to havn votud rngularly against than live minutes. instant rnplay for thb year's rr.play -the New York Giants, The objections to the chal­playoffs. Arizona, Buffalo, Cincinnati, lenge system came mainly from 
L<-,agun spok1•.sman Joe Kansas City, Chicago and the coaches, who have been BrowtH\ conlirnrnd Monday that Tampa Bay. They w1•re joined split among a numbin of pro­if tlw ownnrs approve, "a limit­by San Dingo and Oakland. posals. Some wonder what (•d form of r1iplay f'or us!' in the Tagliabue spent most of' would happen in a situation upwming poslsnason is a pos­Monday discussing tho problem such as tho Seahawks-Jets sibility." with owners and league offi­game if a coach had exhausted 
Tlw rww replay syswm would cials. his challenges before a game­Iik.-ly takP llw form used in T:1gliabun couldn't. have turning play at the finish. prPsnason nxpnrinwnts -with missed Monday's New York However, the proposal under coadH's gin>, a limitt:d numl.rnr 1wwspapors, all three of which study by the NFL is a liberal of challPll!{l'S pPr ganrn and rnf-had a l'ront-pago picturn of version that would allow a 1ircns muking Urn final dncision Teslaverde lying on the ground r,oach an additional challenge from monitors on the sidolirw. a foot short of tlie end zone, on just such a game-deciding 
But it also would be what one St.ill. t.lrn play was ruled a play. lnagtw offidal called "liberal," touchdown and the Jets beat Few prntond that replay nwauing that if a coach is out S(rnltle, :-32-31. so!v(;s everything. Dan Hooney, of' challPll!{PS 011 a ganw-dt1cid­The call in the garrw's closing president of the Steelers, said ing play, lw would lm allowed snconds kept the Jets tied with last week he thinks officials are 1111 additional onn. Miami in tlrn AFC East and in overly managed already, lead­
That would apply to plays df'ect knocked thn Seahawks ing to indecision. such as tllf\ one hy tlw N11w from playoff contPntinn. It also Phil Luckett. the ret'rree in York .J1its' Vinny TnstavnrdP had an impact on Wilson's the Scahawks-Jcts game, said with 20 s1·1·011ds lllf't against Bills, Miami and New England. that once head linesman Seal.tin on Sunday. That play which am in a !'our-way scram­Earnie Frantz signaled tour,h­was called a touchdown, ble with th1\ Jets in the AFC down, as he did almost as soon although cou11ll1•ss rnplays East. as Testaverdc hit the ground, showed 'l'Pstaverdn had come The tnchnology is in place the debate was ovnr. up short of' the goal line. lrncause of' the n\play experi­"Because he had signaled a 
/\ proposal f'or a new form of' ments during exhibition games. touchdown, so far as we're 
replay, whid1 was in nffoct All that's 1rneded is a phone concerned it's over." Luckett l'rom 1986 lo 19') I, was votml vote by the owners. No said. down at an owners' meeting in timetable for that conforence But NFL rules specify that if March. It got "yes" votes from call has been set. another official disagrees with 
21 of tlw 30 l1!ams. two short of' "There is one objective -get the call, the referee can tho thnw-fourths nnednd. tlrn calls right," Jets coach Bill reverse it. On Sunday night in 
But Sunday's call. plus a Parcells said Monday. "Not Minnesota, referee Bob qlwstionabln call that allowed some of the calls, not the calls McElwee reversed himself after N11w England to lrnat Buffalo a in the second half or the last he ruled a fumble and other wtink ago and the b1>tclrnd coin quarter or only in the end zone. officials said Steve Stentstrom's 
f'lip in tlw l'itlslrnrgh-Dntroit It's to get the calls right." knee had hit before the ball ga1111• 011 Thanksgiving, havn The system that has been cawc out. had a ripple nf'foct around the tried in exhibitions involves 'l ne difference may be that lnagw~. giving coaches challenges on Luckett, who is well-regarded 
llu!Talo's llalph Wilson, who calls -perhaps two a half or by coaches and players, is in votPd against rnplay in March, two a game -with the referee his second year as a crew chief said last wrwk that he has making Urn final decision after and his eighth as an NFL of'fi­changed his mind. And llrownn viewing the play on a sideline cial. McElwee is in his 23rd said that calls to owners by monitor. year as an official. most as a 
commissiorwr Paul Tagliabun That would help end the referee. 
Challenge Yourself! 
Q~UNTEER PROGRAM needs men and women toi,h':M'.~· New York City or the Boston area. "" , · 
•Use 
your skills and talents while developing new oriel 

•Community 
living offers opportunity for peqiollal 

•Housing, 
board, and a liveable stipend aU incl 


Little Sisters of the Assumption , 
Contact: Volunleer Coordinator 214 E.30th St. New York, NY 10016 (212) 889-4310 email: lilllesrs@aol.com website: WW'ly'.littlesisters.org 

Established 1965 
Diamonds Engagement Rings & Wedding Bands 18karat YeHow Golld & Platinum, 
~ 
Thinking of purchasing a diamond?. 

Choose wisely with information in our comph~t:ntarybook, Dian1onds Magnified, 186 pages, 2nd ed1t1on, hardbound. 
John M. Marshall 
Jeweler / Gemologist / Mineralogist 
Telephone: 287-1427 Monday -Friday, l0a.m. to 6p.m.. KeyBank Building, Suite #101, South Bend, Indiana 46601 

¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL 

Associated Press A Willimantic native. Skip Holtz lives with his wife, STOHRS. Conn. Jennifer. and their two sons 
Connecticut head football in Tolland. coach Skip Holtz resigned Skip Holtz did not imnrndi­Monday night t(l join his ately return a t1,lephone call father, Lou Holtz, on the to his home seeking comment coaching staff at the Monda.y night. He has sched­University of South Carolina. ulnd a news conference with 
Skip Holtz will become UConn athletics director Lew offensive coordinator of the Perkins Tuesday afternoon. Division I-A team, UConn offi­Lou Holtz also had sched­Scill,ls announcedMonday. uled a news conference in Lou Holtz, 61, was named Columbia. S.C .. Tuesday, 
South Carolina's head coach South Carolina athletics Friday, and announced spokesman Kerry Tharp said. Monday he had asked his son Connecticut officials would 
to Join his staff. Skip Holtz not comment Monday night had served as offensive coor-on Skip Holtz's departure. dinator for his father at Notre Even before Lou Holtz 

Dame in 1992 and 1993 accepted the position at South before taking over as the Carolina, there was talk of his Huskies head coach in 1994. son joining him, with the 
Skip Jfoltz,. 34, guided understanding that he would 
Connecticut to a school• succeed his father in two to record 10 wins this season three years. before losing in the Division 1-"There are no formal or 
.·AA playoffs Saturday at top­informal guarantees for him," ranked Georgia Southern. He South Carolina athletics compiled a winning percent­director Mike McGee said age of .600 with a 34-23 Monday. "It's always helpful record while head coach of to have potential succession 
··.·the Huskies. 
in a staff." 

Go Irish! Beat Huskies! 
~AnthonylhJve/ 
Spring BNlk '88 
Spring Break Packages are going fast! Get your deposit in by Dec. 18 and save. Stop in and check out the best vacations around including: 
.:'(g<' Cancun ~ Acapulco South Padre Florida Jamaica 
~AntOOnyTrdv,el 
LaFortu11e Student Center 631-7080 
page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Tuesday, December 8, 1998 
¦ COLLEGE FOOTBALL ¦ NBA 
Kansas State heads for Alamo Players to hold 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. Kansas State's players are so 
depressed over being snubbe_d 
by the major bowls that thc!r coach is worried about their effort in the Alamo Bowl. 
·•1 certainly am," Bill Snyder said Mondav. 
In less than 24 hours, the Wildcats (11-1) plunged from the brink of getting to play No. 1 Tennessee for the national championship in the riesta Bowl to having to play unranked Purdue for nothing in the Alamo Bowl. 
They remained third in the Bowl Championship Series rankings c~after blowing a 15-point lead and losing 36-33 to Texas A&M in double-over­time Saturday in the Big 12 title game. They dropped to fourth in The Associated Press poll. 
Had they beaten Texas A&M, they were assured of the Fiesta Bowl. 
Yet, when other bids were handed out on Sunday, they were snubbed by the other BCS bowls -the Orange, Rose and Sugar. And then they watched Texas and Nebraska, which both lost to the Wildcats, accept bids to the Cotton and Holiday bowls, the top postseason games with ties to the Big 12. "You'd like to be able to say life is fair " Snvder said. "But obvi­ously that's' not the case." 
He even declined to urge dis­appointed fans to attend the Dec. 29 game in San Antonio. 
"I know our fans are reeling from this as well. They are hurt, like our players," Snyder said during a conference call with league coaches. 
"We just have to have some healing time. Now is not the time to campaign for anything from our vantage point. The important thing for us is to heal and get on with this." 
Snyder was careful to praise both the Alamo Bowl and Purdue (8-3). 
"The Alamo Bowl . . . is one of 
the up-and-coming bowls," he 
said. "It certainly will be an honor for us to be there. Are we disappointed we were not included in the BCS selection or in the pecking order as it was described by the Big 12? Yes." 
Snyder said the snub would be difficult to explain to his players. 
"The message we've always tried to communicate to our young people is that there are systems in place in our culture and our society and our pro­gram. And if the system is adhered to, if you do things the way they're supposed to be done, then the system will work for you. 

"This might be an example where that is not the case. I'll ask them not to lose faith in the system we have here, that it will work for them if they do the right thing. This is obviously a setback and a tremendous test. Perhaps a test of our character to see how we're able to deal with this." 
Snyder emphasized he was not blaming anybody. "I can only blame myself for 
SPRfNG BREAK'99 
HOURS & IIOURS OF FREE IJRINKS? Earn 2 FREE irips & $$$$$! C,mcun,Jamaira, Rorida, Barbado,;, llahama, Lm1e11 Prires/11~1 l\tcal Plan 1·800-426-7710 I,mn.sun~pla\htours.tom 
God's
people
need you. 

For more informariurt u11 
the Holy Cross rme-vt.'.111 
Candidate Program co111ac1 
Moreau Scm1muy 
i-r. J1m Km~. csc. Notre Dame. IN 46556 (219) 631-6385 http://www.nd.edu/-vncatio11 

ANSWER-;j;; 
THECALLW
fr Bill Wuck. cs.<.· 
not having our team well enough prepared to win a ball game," he said. "Outside of that, I wouldn't know where to start." 
Texas A&M coach R.C. Slocum did not sound sympathetic. 
"That's the way the system works," said Slocum, whose Aggies got a bid to the Sugar Bowl. "Last year a very fine UCLA team got left out and Kansas State took their spot in the Fiesta Bowl. It's hard to get away from the idea of somebody feeling they got left out." 

exhibition game 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK 
Michael won't even be play­ing, and courtside tickets will still cost $1,000. A long­rumored exhibition game fea­turing locked-out NBA play­ers was finally announced Monday by gents David Palk and Arn Tellem. 
"The Game on Showtimc" is set for Dec. 19 in Atlantic City, N.J., with the proceeds going to charity and to NB/\ players in financial need. 
"If you look at people who play professional sports, not a lot of them are financially secure," union president Patrick Ewing said. "They make a lot of money, and they also spend a lot of money. 
"Mc, I'm financially secure, but there a lot of others who aren't. Our objective is to help these people. No matter how much money they've made throughout their careers, if they're in need now then it's up to us to try and help them," Ewing said. 
Thirteen players are com­mitted to play, and organizers hope to have a total of 16 players who were members of the four Dream teams -the 1992 and 1996 Olympic teams and the 1994 and 1998 World Championship teams. 
Ewing, Karl Malone, Penny Hardaway, Tim Hardaway, Allan Houston, Reggie Miller, Alonzo Mourning, Tom Gugliotta, Gary Payton, Dominique Wilkins, Vin Baker, Glen Rice and Mitch Richmond have committed. 
Among those who have not are Larry Bird, Magic Johnson, Charles Barkley, Scottie Pippen, Isiah Thomas, Shaquille O'Neal, Hakeem 
Olajuwon, Grant Hill and John Stockton. 
Derrick Coleman and Larry Johnson, members of' the 1994 World Championship team, were not invited. 
Michael Jordan's absence is particularly noteworthy because Falk, his agent, is one of the main organizers. 
"Michael has said he won't make a decision about returning to professional bas­ketball or retiring until the lockout is over," said Curtis Polk. president of Falk's sports management company. "Wr) did talk to Michael about the game, obviously, and Michael feels he needs to stand by his earlier statement that he'll wait for a resolution of the lockout before he makes that decision. lie wouldn't want to send the fans a sort of mixed message by his participation in this game." 
Ewing said Jordan might show up, but won't play. 
The Atlantic City game will be the latest in a recent string of exhibitions involving locked out players. Games were held last weekend in Miami and Dallas, and anoth­er is scheduled for next Sunday in Los Angeles. 
Jay Larkin, executive pro­ducer of Showtime, would not reveal how much the cable network was paying for the broadcast rights. 
Polk said the largest expense would be insurance, with every player covered for $20 million against a career­ending injury. 
None of the players will be paid, and no criteria have been established for deter­mining which players will share in the proceeds. 

Weather the Holidays... 
... Start Your '99 Christmas Oub Now! 
Avoid financial storms during the holidays by opening a Christmas Club Account today. 
This account features: 
. COMPETITIVE DIVIDENDS ilFtt Nq 'JJ)NTHLY SERVICE CIJ,ARGES 
.  
•  

. SAVE THRU PAYROLL DEDUCTION 
NOTRE DAME FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 
Ohristmas Olnb 

Plus our ATM at the Campus Bookstore 

•~NOTRE DAME 
~ FEDERAL CREDIT UNION 


For People. Not For Profit. Independent or the University 
Tuesday, December 8, 1998 The Observer• SPORTS page 17
------------------------------------------------''---­


S 
The Observer/Kevin Oalum 
ee tomorrow's Observer to see how 

Troy Murphy and the Irish men's bas­ketball team fares in their Big East debut against the Providence Friars. 
, 
¦ MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 

Diamondbacks sign Finley . 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX 
The Arizona Diamondbacks completed their free-agent binge Monday by signing cen­ter fielder Steve Finley to a $21 .5 million, four-year con­tract. 
The Diamondbacks spent $118.9 million on six free agents during the past month in a dramatic effort to trans­form an expansion team that lost 97 games into a NL con­tender. 
Finley was a late, unantici­patcd postscript to that endeavor, Arizona's manag­ing general partner Jerry Colangelo said. 
After the team signed Randy Johnson to a $52.4 million, four-year deal, Colangelo said that the Diamondbacks were finished with free agents. 
When Finley heard that, he said Im quickly called Danny Ainge, coach of the NBA's Phoenix Suns, a team Colangelo also owns. Ainge gave Finley Colangelo's cell phone number and said to call him right away. 
Pinley reached Colangelo in New York, where he was about to join the NBA labor talks. 
"Jerry and I had a conver­sation and I told him at that point that I wanted to be a Diamondback, and the rest is history." Finley said. 
Colangelo said the Diamondbacks had moved in other directions after initial talks with Finley didn't go anywhere. 
"Had he not taken the ini­tiative because he wanted to be here, I don't think we'd be here today," Colangelo said. 
Finley said the 

Diamondbacks' signing of Johnson was the clincher. 
"I'm going to be 34 next season," Finley said. 'Tm not a 22-year-old who's going to play another 10 or 12 years and maybe have a couple of chances to go. I want to win now. When I saw they signed Johnson, I wanted to be h1ire then for sure." 
Arizona's deal far exceeded the $12 million, three-y,~ar offer Finley had lo remain with the San Diego Padres. Finley gets a $500,000 sign­ing bonus and salaries of $5.25 million per season. 
Most of the Diamondbacks' spending spree went for pitching. Todd Stottlemyre agreed to $32 million for year years, Armando Reynoso got $5.5 million for two years and reliever Greg Swindell received $5. 7 million over three years. 
Arizona also picked up pinch-hit specialist Greg Colbrunn for $1.8 million over two years. 
As in the Johnson and Stottlemyre deals, Finley is deferring salary -$2.5 mil­lion in each of the first two years and $2 million in each of the last two. The money is being deferred for four years at 6 percent interest, making the total payout of the con­tract $23.66 million. 
The starting rotation of Johnson, Stottlemyre, Reynoso, Andy Benes and either Omar Daal or Brian Anderson could be the sec­ond-best, behind Atlanta, in the National League. 
"You win with pitching and defense. That's what we did last year in San Diego," Finley said. "When you walk into the clubhouse, and you see what you have around you, sometimes that's half the battle. You've just got to believe when you go out there on the field that you're going to win. With the talent we're going to put out there on the mound, you're going to see that just about every day." 
Center field was a top prior­ity because Devon White, Arizona's MVP last season. agreed to a $12 million, three-year contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
Finley hit a career-low .249 this year with 14 humors and 67 HBls. two years after set­ting career highs in batting average (.297), doubles (45), home runs (30) and HBls (95) and winning his second straight Gold Glove. 
He blamed much of last season's troubles on a foot injury that bothered him tlrn last half of the 1997 season. He underw1rnt surgery after that season. preventing any off-season workout. 
"The doctor who performed the surgory told me it would take a full year to really recover from it." Finley said. "I didn't want to believe him, but after going through everything I went through last year, I believe it now." 
Colangelo said the Diamondbacks will be looking to make a trade for a right fielder. The team has a sur­plus of starting pitchers, with young left-hander Brian Anderson the leading candi­date to go. 
"If you're asking me are we going to sign any more free agents," Colangelo said, "the answer is no." 
But he knows himself too well, and after a brief pause added, "I think." 
·Announcing the opening of the 

ervtces tee 


Starting January 1999 student ID cards will be issued from the Card Services Office, located in the lower level of South Dining Hall. 
This Office will continue to service:  
Meal Plans  
Bonus Flex and Dine Flex accounts  Questions call  
Domer Dollar accounts  631-7814  

page 18 

.. Gallle 
continued from page 20 
at home against Toledo last Wednesdav. The Rockets threatened to upset Notre Dame in the opening minutes of the Sf'cond half before senior captain Sheila McMillcn rose to the occasion. She shot 3-for-3 from three-point range to spark an 18-3 run to bury the digging 
Rockets, 82-64. · 
Also strong for the Irish from the field have been Danielle Green and freshman Sherisha Hills. A great deal of the their momentum has come with Uw play of Niele Ivey at point guard. The Irish have moved the ball around and found the right players to get the scoring going. "Niele has done an incredible job at point guard, being a leader and get­ting the ball around," said Riley. "Everyone has found their role and we're playing better." 
Riley herself has benefited from the pressure that Notre Dame has placed on the oppo­sition from outside. In the Toledo win, McMillen's hero.ks from downtown freed Riley underneath. The 6-foot-5 cen­ter was able to net 15 points and grab 17 boards. 
The Huskies (6-0) will give Notre Dame their biggest test of the season to date. 
Connecticut comes to Lown tot­ing the prnseason Big East player of the year in forward Svetlana Abrosirnova and the Big East preseason rookie of the year in forward Tamika Williams. Abrosimova is corn­ing off a week in which she scored a career-high 39 points in a win against No. 14 UCLA. Abrosimova shared the confer­ence's play-er of the week honor with Green, who aver­aged 21.5 points and 10.0 rebounds last week. 
Williams also addl~d to her Big East honors by becoming last week's rookie of thfl week. She came off of a 17-point performance vs. UCLA, scoring her career-high in points while collecting six rebounds, four steals and two assists in 17 minutes of play. 
Like the Ir.ish, the largest threat that Connecticut holds is their balance and bench. "What makes them so good is that they are so well balanced. said Riley. "They have eight players that they sub in and not just one player that does all lhe scoring." 
The biggest threat off the bench in recent games had been Asjha Jones. Jones kept the conference rookie of the week award in Connecticut this week after coming off the bench to average 16.5 points and 5.5 rebounds against Rhode Island and Holy Cross. She shot .882 (15-17) from the field in the two games. 


University of Notre Dame Department of Music presents 
George Frideric Handel's 
IWESSIAH 
University of Notre Dame Chorale & Chamber Orchestra 
8:00 p.m. Thursday, December 10, 1998 
Friday, December 11, 1998 Washington Hall 
Open to the public. Admission: $6 Reserved Seats; $3 Students & Seniors Tickets available at Lafortune Box Office, 631-8128. 
The Observer• SPORTS 


Insight 
continued from page 20 
McGraw has her squad in exceptional form for this early in the season with two double­digit wins over top-10 foes Duke and UCLA. 
It's a clash of two titans in women's basketball. An Irish win would be his­toric. 
It would be nice to have some students actually witness the event. 
The townies will be out in force as they have realized that Notre Dame women's basket­ball is one of the best winter shows in town. 
But Joyce Center mainte­nance crews have not yet had to open up the bleachers in the upper deck for a women's game. 

Pushing the bleachers for­'ward to make the tiny crowds at women's games seem larger shouldn't be done. 
Tonight provides the perfect opportunity to change that trend. The Irish will need some type of home court advantage to stop Auriemma's juggernaut. 
The Huskies are used to big crowds, but usually the crowds are there to cheer on and wit­ness the machine that is the Connecticut women's basket­ball team. 
Nothing could prepare them for a rowdy bunch of Irish fans ready to throw marshmallows or even a squid at half-time. 
I don't know exactly what a mascot of a Pyro, Banshee, Angry Mob, or a Rambler might be, but it could be fun to fmd out in the first ever dorm mas­cot contest and you can support 
Tuesday, December 8, 1998 
one of the best teams we have at the same time. 
Take advantage of Adidas who can't seem to give us enough stuff and are having giveaways for the dorms with the highest attendencc. 
But most importantly come to see the best college basketball the Joyce Center has seen in recent years. 
The men's team already gave their annual scare to the Indiana Hoosiers and the Connecticut men's team doesn't come to town this season, so if you're a basketball fan, this is the event of the season at the Joyce Center. 
Corne for the free subs and stay for the basketball. 
You might even witness histo­ry, in case you missed it the last time when Morgan, Gaithflr, and Co. put the Irish on the national map. 


Web-OPAC Replaces UNLOC in January 1999 
The Online Pubic Access Catalog (OPAC) informally know as UNLOC has been converted to a 
Web-based OPAC. Access to it can be gained by using any Web-browser such as Netscape. Any machine capable of running Netscape 3.0 or Internet Explorer 3.0 (or higher) can access the Libraries' Catalog. If you have any questions as to whether your equipment can run Netscape 3.0, please consult your departmental computer sup­port personnel or the Office of Information Technologies (OIT) Help Desk (631-8 I I I). Access to the library catalog can be found at: 
• http://www.nd.edu/-ndlibs (The University Libraries home page) 
• http://www.nd. edul-ndlibs/alephintro.html (Direct access) 
Searching in the new OPAC will be different from searching in UNLOC but because it is Web-based, little need for training is anticipated. However, an introduction to the unique features of the new catalog will help you use it to its fullest advantage. Training sessions will be offered through a multitude of opportunities and venues: 
• 
Each day of the week (Monday-Friday) for the first half of the spring semester, training sessions will be offered in R9om 222 Hes burgh Library from I 0:00­

11 :00 a.m. and again at 2:00-3:00 p.m. 

• 
The OIT Computer Education Program 

• 
Subject Librarians and Liaisons to individual departments and Colleges will offer faculty training sessions. 

• 
At peak research times during the academic year, specially hired and trained stu dents will be available to offer individual assistance within the Reference area on the l st floor of Hesburgh Library. 

• 
Special sessions can be arranged upon request through the Library Instruction Program coordinated by Patrick Hall (telephone: 631-7673) or through any public service desk in the Branch Libraries or Hesburgh Library. 


Tuesday, December 8, 1998 The Observer• TODAY page 19 
LOOKING THROUGH THE WIZARD OF ND 
DAN SULLIVAN YOUR HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
FOXTROT 
jASoNEZ.ER J.&.Co8 ScRoo<;E.. MARCUSL'I'?! Ii IS I, YOUR 8UT... SVT... FoRMER '!'ou'RE 
DllBERT 
NO  ONE. ~eTuRNS  
t'\'V  !' HONE CALL~ ...  
NO  ON£ Rt.A.OS  

THE. E·MML I 




CELEBRITIES BORN ON THIS DAY: Kim Basinger, Sinead O'Con­nor, Flip Wilson, Maximilian Schell 
Happy Birthday: You're prepared to take on whatever comes your way. It's time for you to take a serious interest in all that life has to offer. This is a time to work hard, but it's also time to reap the rewards. Don't forgel to take time for life's little pleasures, Travel, entertainment and enjoying the company of loved ones should be your main concerns, Your numbers: 2, 16, 21, 27, 35, 40 
ARIES (March 21-April 19): Don't Id everything get to you. Ask for help tying up loose ends. The people who
BILL AMEND 

lend you a hand will be pleased that you thought enough of them to
www.loxtr01,oom 

accept their contributions. 00000
I THOUGHT 

TAURUS (April 20-May 20); You
lou'D Oti, MAN, 

cdn spend a passionate day with
LH<E 1l-lAT. M'f S1STER 

someone you love. Make plans early COOL. 
I';, GOING 

and refuse to let others interfere, Don't hesitate to make the first move in a relationship, 00 
GEMINI (May 21-)une 20): You need to get out on your own and par­take in hobbies or creative endeavors that you find stimulating, If someone tries to stand in your way, you need to tell him or her to step aside. 0000 
CANCER (June Zl•July 22): You don't need more people on your domestic scene. If company drops by, make up an excuse to retire early Get your relationship back on track by spending time with your mate. 000 
LEO (July 23-Aug. 22): You'll have 
SCOTT ADAMS 

problems getting others to pitch, in. Take d look at your career ros1t1on and consider making moves that will be more lucrali\'e. You can make posi­livc ch,rn~cs today, 000 

THAT'S RIGHT, lASoNEZEli>. § r HAVE REiURNE[) AS A t GHOST To TUL You j SoME'T\ilNC;i. 
E
8 
~ 
J 
THAT IF 'YOU CoNT1NlJE ON 
YOUR PRESENT COURSE, "foU'LL 
! Fl.NO f'l\'t'~EL.f ~~NGING, ..,_ROUND WITH OTl-\'-R ¥'~"fHf.TtC I OCTE~l"EO 
LO~E.1\5. 
ACROSS z, Ca&ey Jones, 
no~bly

1 "It's a Wonderlul 53 Aussie ·chick· s11 Dracula. at times 
I 
~ 
Q 
E 
9 


Wanted: Reporters and photog­raphers. Join
OTHE BSERVER 
ule" director crank 5 Quiet vc1lley 10 'lewYork 
Shakespeare . estival fo-J11de1 Joseph 

1• l\:Jport1011 1s "loof overhang 
, <& •Hair" song "-Baby" 
11 With 61 ·Across. Mia! the judge said to the oigamist? 
20Japanese 
wresrlrng 2i Your and my 22 Nearly 23 Appear, with 
"1.1p· uAt1est 
21 Sneeze soLnds 
13 When repeated, a Lalin dance 
uRaison­
i, Musicar comoosrtion 17 Put on --(act snooty) ­H Peter o, Patrick, 
e.g. 
41 ·cut that outr· 
,2 Smooth and shiny 
"' Catch lrsn. in a 
pnm,tlve way 
"Trme 1n history 
4T Modern-day halls to kids' lights 
,9 "Messiah" composer 5,1 "Yo1.i wouldn t -!" 52 Green flavor 
57 "Oh, no'1sense1" &1 See 17,Across 
'4 Elderly's svgs, 
,s Caspian Sea 
feeder 
H"H1" 
n Defrost ""Aul~ LanQ 
Gt Baby bird 
DOWN 
1 Low islands 2 Baseballer Matty 
or Fel,pe 
:, Prune, formerly 
4H1ghly ornamented style 
5 Tell-c;ilance s Outfit 7 Comic Bel't aA Gabor t Slate east ol the 
Sierras 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 10 Easy monthly 
--+"--"-+"-+=--i 11 It follows ·peek" il"II! be.by'9 game 12 Name of 12 
•:t-:-r.=-ili.-:-1-:-r.-:-<t=-1 pope~ 11111-:+~~-t.,:,-4iiii,iliii,,li.,I t 3 Saucy ..:..:..+.:,:.f~""'l'IIII 111 Hangme11·s needs 
-•=-t:-t::::-t If 'Dallas' melriarch Miss 

2' 16•n feet H o 25 "Goodnight• girl 
-t--+--r-t-:-cr:::-+-+---1--1 of song >-'-f--+-+0--i 2e • . with -of N A thOusancs!" E A T (Hollywood hype) 
Puult 1aY Slepl'la•I• S.,_eccinl 
2T Texas cook-ol'f ctish 
21 Sultan's ladies ff Excursions 30 Quiet 
• 
J, 8• crazy aooul 
J2Where 
Ever~t is 
31 Nibbloon :,a ~ost flea-bitten 40 Idyllic SOuth 
Seas island 43 Aussie 'bear" 4& Hit head-on 
q Neighbor of Saturn 
50 Huey, Dewey or Louie, to Donald Duck 
sz Soup S9MJr 53 Take some of! the top 54 Tortoise's rival 
H Ust•enoing
abbr, 
H Noggin H "-be a COid day in hell ' " 
st Only 
50 What 69-Across will grow up 10 do 

staff.
~ Arid 63 Neveiihele,s 
Answers to ,my three clues in this puzzle are available by touch-tone phOne: 1-900-4~0-5656 (9St per IT'inute). 
Annual sut>scriptions are available for ttie best ol SUnday crosswords lrom the last 
60 yvan,: t -888-7'.ACROSS, 
VIRGO (Aug. 23-Sept. 22); Get reclusive friends or relatives 11wolved in groups you belong to. Expect them to be hesitant, but that will pass. They'll be grateful that you cared enough to encourage them. 000 
LIBRA (Sept, 23-0ct. 22): Don't take any of your relationships for granted. Take time to appreciate those who are there for you. You'll receiw twice as much support if you praise them for their loyalty. 0000 
SCORPIO (Oct. 23-Nov. 21): Trav• el is in order. You may find that a pro­motion will lead to a change ol resi­dence. Your gut feelings regarding new colleagues will be more accurale than you imagine. 00 
SAGITTARIUS (Nov. 22-Dec. 21): Take care of the hidden matters ~ plagued you in the past. lie up 1~ ends and finalize legal documenls and contracts. Clear the way for big­ger and better things. 00000 
CAPRICORN (Dec. 22-Jan. 19): Talk to those who can make a differ­ence. You're riding high and you can taste victory. However, you may find that you've lost the one you wish ID share your success with. 000 
AQUARIUS (Jan. 20-Feb. 18): You 
need some companionship. If you 
don't have someone, get out and join 
an interesting group. You'll find peo­
ple with whom you look /on,•ard lo 
spending time, 000 
PISCES (Feb. 19-March 20); Plan 
to spend time with friends and family. 
You may have been in the doghoU!II!, 
but today's a new day and your male 
will be more willing to forgi\'e you. 
000 
.. 
• 
• 

~ake all the right move~ over the holiday~! 
Phy~ical Activity will: Be Creative! 
..

Nclp with weight management •• Park farther away at the mall Improve your attitude • • 
fxerci~e al home with a video Keep you in a routine ••• Walk bri~kly through the ~inimize ~Ire~~ airport For more Info. Contact: RecSporfs • I ·6100 
a 
www.nd.eduFrecs ort 



¦ Skip Holtz resigned ¦ NHL owners are from Connecticut yes­debating whether to terday to join his father continue relations with at South Carolina. the Olympics. 
PORTS 

p.15 p.13 
O 
THE 

page 20 BSERVER Tuesday, December 8, 1998 
..... ..·····•···••ft••··•·,., .... •',,...
-.....,,.....-~.......-~..--~----.~ 
'! 
j

:j ~ 
:: ¦ WoMEr<s, 
•

Iris 1es 
=t : No..6No1te Daii 'hopes 
J 

highest r?Tlking entton of 
: :-i•:.,·::•,;
1 school hts(or:y · 
:t •··• , . 
•I 

.,.. 
No· one could have predicte at tomg t's as. .·..·... . would be in pt-rfect shape c treatedto alot St\lJQnth g~µne of the sea~(),!)~~' . W~Y$,,~\~'.1~if~ ~' ·that includr-d tben,a,t, a _5th-best tea:phri~; . , hing a. ... . . .. (')rt1 signif\cnnt. Illinois. respec,tJi~1y. it fl ··• . at..No r ·•• .. ·.·..·... ·.,,.. . riemrtia,mushes his top · Dame would beA'i;r,good position iLt,hey were ked Connecticut HusJri£>,i;·into the . .Joyce .... 
just able to maill .. ir No.;i;x~nking.. · n Muffet · ' w's perfect Iris~, 1 But the first si brought th.e'1rishpast slxth i,a tion. · · 
their prPsoaso ce'' tanking · · rthe mighty .•·· swould ...,...··· .... 
and closer tn i~nding off . ·· ..· g , y be the biggestr .lar season vvi.n ·, 
opponents by .... era.go of 18 polfl~''l\ ~ame, . e program's history. It would c-0.tapulttpe . the Irish have gQtten off to their l>e,ststa.rt~\er n Jrish into the top five and their highest rankl.ttg with a 6~0 record.> · · "r••ever, 
And that startisjtist the beginning. .. •. ·W'ben the 199.6-97 women's terun officially Thl:lJrish havea chance to · tO ed,o~ tb~pationat~~(rn~~ith a surpl'ls~N{);t<f Huskies of Connncti Q the Final Four, notmany students wi~P .Center in the first Big Ea· . . ...··.·..• nessed thatpiece of history. · · teams. Par from labeling this g ....... as a must Notmany students can. saythey saw the Beth win, tlrn Irish are instead using tonight's Morgan-Katryna Gaither colllhination that · matchup to measure where they stand, espe• scored more than 4,400 porn.ts in their ,careers. dally in the strong Big East conference. · · ents anothtir chance. "We.know this isn't a must-· situatiqn re of Ru .. eyin the key, the ills tob early in the se.ason to .~,that,µ1 . iSboote la McMillan and emphasis on it," said Irish center RutllRiley. acity a .... el~ntlessn$ss ofguards Niele ~H should be a fun game and a goou opportu­nd Danielle Green, the Irish could on the nity for us to possibly knock off the number of anot.lJ~t:historic se~$?h. one team in the country. It will }?e a good ·Huskies fiaveleft the competition in their gauge to see where we are at.". ···· e, running overy~~ry po9r Jeam that is on The ltish will enter the game having no. eir schedule by aJ1 av'E)rnge o.(;32 points acon­played iqjust less than a week, their last · est, if you can call therrfcontests. 
enjoying thgtijghest ranking l 
44r9 
¦ COLLEGE fOOTBAll 

Rosenthal named Football News All-American 
Special to the Observer 
Senior Notre Dame offensive' tackle Mike Rosenthal has been named a second-team All­American by Football News, plus six other Irish players have received postseason recognition from that publication based on their play in 1998. 
Rosenthal, who led the way for the Irish ground attack, previous­ly earned first-team honors from the Walter Camp Foundation. 
Senior tailback Autry Denson, Notrn Dame's loading career groundgainer, was a Football News honorable mention selec­tion. 
S(dcctcd to tlrn Football Nnws All -In d e pen cl (rn ts sq ll ad w c ro Hosenthal, Denson. offensive tack­le Luke Petitgout (he started all 11 games), kicker Jim Sanson !ll of 1:i f'inld goalsl, inside lin(1­backcr Bobbie Howard (he led the tejlm in tackiest and punter lluntnr Smith (41.7-yard averagn). 
Also, rookie dcf'ensivo end Anthony Weaver (he started IO games and played more minutes than anv other Irish freshmanl 
was narned to the Football News All-Freshman team. 


at the Gator Bowl, at Providence 
at North Dakota .~ vs. Georgia Tech Today, 7:30 p.m. .
SPORTS 

~-~ Jan. 2 Jan. I
ATA 

vs. Connecticut Basketball, Swimming, Today, 7 p.m. vs. Olivet College vs. Alma College 
e e
GLANCE Wednesday, 7:30 p.m. Jan. 13, 7:30 p.m. 


